The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***




Produced by Graham Lawrence

[START]

A
A (named a in the English, and most commonly ä in other languages).

Defn: The first letter of the English and of many other alphabets.
The capital A of the alphabets of Middle and Western Europe, as also
the small letter (a), besides the forms in Italic, black letter,
etc., are all descended from the old Latin A, which was borrowed from
the Greek Alpha, of the same form; and this was made from the first
letter (Aleph, and itself from the Egyptian origin. The Aleph was a
consonant letter, with a guttural breath sound that was not an
element of Greek articulation; and the Greeks took it to represent
their vowel Alpha with the ä sound, the Phoenician alphabet having no
vowel symbols. This letter, in English, is used for several different
vowel sounds. See Guide to pronunciation, §§ 43-74. The regular long
a, as in fate, etc., is a comparatively modern sound, and has taken
the place of what, till about the early part of the 17th century, was
a sound of the quality of ä (as in far).

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The name of the sixth tone in the model major scale (that in
C), or the first tone of the minor scale, which is named after it the
scale in A minor. The second string of the violin is tuned to the A
in the treble staff.
 -- A sharp (A#) is the name of a musical tone intermediate between A
and B.
 -- A flat (A) is the name of a tone intermediate between A and G.

A per se Etym: (L. per se by itself), one preëminent; a nonesuch.
[Obs.]
O fair Creseide, the flower and A per se Of Troy and Greece. Chaucer.

A
A (# emph. #).

1. Etym: [Shortened form of an. AS. an one. See One.]

Defn: An adjective, commonly called the indefinite article, and
signifying one or any, but less emphatically.

Defn: "At a birth"; "In a word"; "At a blow". Shak.

Note: It is placed before nouns of the singular number denoting an
individual object, or a quality individualized, before collective
nouns, and also before plural nouns when the adjective few or the
phrase great many or good many is interposed; as, a dog, a house, a
man; a color; a sweetness; a hundred, a fleet, a regiment; a few
persons, a great many days. It is used for an, for the sake of
euphony, before words beginning with a consonant sound [for exception
of certain words beginning with h, see An]; as, a table, a woman, a
year, a unit, a eulogy, a ewe, a oneness, such a one, etc. Formally
an was used both before vowels and consonants.

2. Etym: [Originally the preposition a (an, on).]

Defn: In each; to or for each; as, "twenty leagues a day", "a hundred
pounds a year", "a dollar a yard", etc.

A
A, prep. Etym: [Abbreviated form of an (AS. on). See On.]

1. In; on; at; by. [Obs.] "A God's name." "Torn a pieces." "Stand a
tiptoe." "A Sundays" Shak. "Wit that men have now a days." Chaucer.
"Set them a work." Robynson (More's Utopia)

2. In process of; in the act of; into; to; -- used with verbal
substantives in -ing which begin with a consonant. This is a
shortened form of the preposition an (which was used before the vowel
sound); as in a hunting, a building, a begging. "Jacob, when he was a
dying" Heb. xi. 21. "We'll a birding together." " It was a doing."
Shak. "He burst out a laughing." Macaulay. The hyphen may be used to
connect a with the verbal substantive (as, a-hunting, a-building) or
the words may be written separately. This form of expression is now
for the most part obsolete, the a being omitted and the verbal
substantive treated as a participle.

A
A. Etym: [From AS. of off, from. See Of.]

Defn: Of. [Obs.] "The name of John a Gaunt." "What time a day is it "
Shak. "It's six a clock." B. Jonson.

A
A.

Defn: A barbarous corruption of have, of he, and sometimes of it and
of they. "So would I a done" "A brushes his hat." Shak.

A
A.

Defn: An expletive, void of sense, to fill up the meter
A merry heart goes all the day, Your sad tires in a mile-a. Shak.

A-
A-

Defn: A, as a prefix to English words, is derived from various
sources. (1) It frequently signifies on or in (from an, a forms of
AS. on), denoting a state, as in afoot, on foot, abed, amiss, asleep,
aground, aloft, away (AS. onweg), and analogically, ablaze, atremble,
etc. (2) AS. of off, from, as in adown (AS. ofdüne off the dun or
hill). (3) AS. a- (Goth. us-, ur-, Ger. er-), usually giving an
intensive force, and sometimes the sense of away, on, back, as in
arise, abide, ago. (4) Old English y- or i- (corrupted from the AS.
inseparable particle ge-, cognate with OHG. ga-, gi-, Goth. ga-),
which, as a prefix, made no essential addition to the meaning, as in
aware. (5) French à (L. ad to), as in abase, achieve. (6) L. a, ab,
abs, from, as in avert. (7) Greek insep. prefix a without, or
privative, not, as in abyss, atheist; akin to E. un-.

Note: Besides these, there are other sources from which the prefix a
takes its origin.

A 1
A 1. A registry mark given by underwriters (as at Lloyd's) to ships
in first-class condition. Inferior grades are indicated by A 2 and A
3.

Note: A 1 is also applied colloquially to other things to imply
superiority; prime; first-class; first-rate.

AAM
Aam, n. Etym: [D. aam, fr. LL. ama; cf. L. hama a water bucket, Gr.

Defn: A Dutch and German measure of liquids, varying in different
cities, being at Amsterdam about 41 wine gallons, at Antwerp 36½, at
Hamburg 38¼. [Written also Aum and Awm.]

AARD-VARK
Aard"-vark`, n. Etym: [D., earth-pig.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An edentate mammal, of the genus Orycteropus, somewhat
resembling a pig, common in some parts of Southern Africa. It burrows
in the ground, and feeds entirely on ants, which it catches with its
long, slimy tongue.

AARD-WOLF
Aard"-wolf`, n. Etym: [D, earth-wolf] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carnivorous quadruped (Proteles Lalandii), of South Africa,
resembling the fox and hyena. See Proteles.

AARONIC; AARONICAL
Aa*ron"ic, Aa*ron"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Aaron, the first high priest of the Jews.

AARON'S ROD
Aar"on's rod`. Etym: [See Exodus vii. 9 and Numbers xvii. 8]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A rod with one serpent twined around it, thus differing from
the caduceus of Mercury, which has two.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant with a tall flowering stem; esp. the great mullein, or
hag-taper, and the golden-rod.

AB-
Ab-. Etym: [Latin prep., etymologically the same as E. of, off. See
Of.]

Defn: A prefix in many words of Latin origin. It signifies from, away
, separating, or departure, as in abduct, abstract, abscond. See A-
(6).

AB
Ab, n. Etym: [Of Syriac origin.]

Defn: The fifth month of the Jewish year according to the
ecclesiastical reckoning, the eleventh by the civil computation,
coinciding nearly with August. W. Smith.

ABACA
Ab"a*ca, n. Etym: [The native name.]

Defn: The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. See
Manila hemp under Manila.

ABACINATE
A*bac"i*nate, v.t. Etym: [LL. abacinatus, p.p. of abacinare; ab off +
bacinus a basin.]

Defn: To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the eyes. [R.]

ABACINATION
A*bac`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act of abacinating. [R.]

ABACISCUS
Ab`a*cis"cus, n. Etym: [Gr.Abacus.] (Arch.)

Defn: One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; an
abaculus.

ABACIST
Ab"a*cist, n. Etym: [LL abacista, fr. abacus.]

Defn: One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator.

ABACK
A*back", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + back; AS. on bæc at, on, or toward
the back. See Back.]

1. Toward the back or rear; backward. "Therewith aback she started."
Chaucer.

2. Behind; in the rear. Knolles.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: Backward against the mast;-said of the sails when pressed by
the wind. Totten. To be taken aback. (a) To be driven backward
against the mast; -- said of the sails, also of the ship when the
sails are thus driven. (b) To be suddenly checked, baffled, or
discomfited. Dickens.

ABACK
Ab"ack, n.

Defn: An abacus. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ABACTINAL
Ab*ac"ti*nal, a. Etym: [L. ab + E. actinal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in a
radiate animal; -- opposed to actinal. "The aboral or abactinal
area." L. Agassiz.

ABACTION
Ab*ac"tion, n.

Defn: Stealing cattle on a large scale. [Obs.]

ABACTOR
Ab*ac"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. abigere to drive away; ab+agere to
drive.] (Law)

Defn: One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds or
droves. [Obs.]

ABACULUS
A*bac"u*lus, n.; pl. Abaculi. Etym: [L., dim. of abacus.] (Arch.)

Defn: A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of various
colors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.
Fairholt.

ABACUS
Ab"a*cus, n. E. pl. Abacuses ; L. pl. Abaci. Etym: [L. abacus, abax,
Gr.

1. A table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for drawing,
calculating, etc. [Obs.]

2. A calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing
arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in
grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens,
etc. It is still employed in China.

3. (Arch.)
(a) The uppermost member or division of the capital of a column,
immediately under the architrave. See Column.
(b) A tablet, panel, or compartment in ornamented or mosaic work.

4. A board, tray, or table, divided into perforated compartments, for
holding cups, bottles, or the like; a kind of cupboard, buffet, or
sideboard. Abacus harmonicus (Mus.), an ancient diagram showing the
structure and disposition of the keys of an instrument. Crabb.

ABADA
Ab"a*da, n. Etym: [Pg., the female rhinoceros.]

Defn: The rhinoceros. [Obs.] Purchas.

ABADDON
A*bad"don, n. Etym: [Heb. abaddon destruction, abyss, fr. abad to be
lost, to perish.]

1. The destroyer, or angel of the bottomless pit; -- the same as
Apollyon and Asmodeus.

2. Hell; the bottomless pit. [Poetic]
In all her gates, Abaddon rues Thy bold attempt. Milton.

ABAFT
A*baft", prep. Etym: [Pref. a-on + OE. baft, baften, biaften, AS.
beæftan; be by + æftan behind. See After, Aft, By.] (Naut.)

Defn: Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse. Abaft
the beam. See under Beam.

ABAFT
A*baft", adv. (Naut.)

Defn: Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft.

ABAISANCE
A*bai"sance, n. Etym: [For obeisance; confused with F. abaisser, E.
abase]

Defn: Obeisance. [Obs.] Jonson.

ABAISER
A*bai"ser, n.

Defn: Ivory black or animal charcoal. Weale.

ABAIST
A*baist", p.p.

Defn: Abashed; confounded; discomfited. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABALIENATE
Ab*al"ien*ate, v.t. Etym: [L. abalienatus, p.p. of abalienare; ab +
alienus foreign, alien. See Alien.]

1. (Civil Law)

Defn: To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.

2. To estrange; to withdraw. [Obs.]

3. To cause alienation of (mind). Sandys.

ABALIENATION
Ab*al`ien*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. abalienatio: cf. F. abalianation.]

Defn: The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement. [Obs.]

ABALONE
Ab`a*lo"ne, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is lined
with mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear.
Several large species are found on the coast of California, clinging
closely to the rocks.

ABAND
A*band", v.t. Etym: [Contracted from abandon.]

1. To abandon. [Obs.]
Enforced the kingdom to aband. Spenser.

2. To banish; to expel. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag.

ABANDON
A*ban"don, v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abandoned; p.pr. & vb.n. Abandoning.]
Etym: [OF. abandoner, F.abandonner; a (L. ad)+bandon permission,
authority, LL. bandum, bannum, public proclamation, interdiction,
bannire to proclaim, summon: of Germanic origin; cf. Goth. bandwjan
to show by signs, to designate OHG. banproclamation. The word meant
to proclaim, put under a ban, put under control; hence, as in OE., to
compel, subject, or to leave in the control of another, and hence, to
give up. See Ban.]

1. To cast or drive out; to banish; to expel; to reject. [Obs.]
That he might . . . abandon them from him. Udall.
Being all this time abandoned from your bed. Shak.

2. To give up absolutely; to forsake entirely ; to renounce utterly;
to relinquish all connection with or concern on; to desert, as a
person to whom one owes allegiance or fidelity; to quit; to
surrender.
Hope was overthrown, yet could not be abandoned. I. Taylor.

3. Reflexively : To give (one's self) up without attempt at self-
control ; to yield (one's self) unrestrainedly ; -- often in a bad
sense.
He abandoned himself . . . to his favorite vice. Macaulay.

4. (Mar. Law)

Defn: To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured person
gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a
policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured
against.

Syn.
 -- To give up; yield; forego; cede; surrender; resign; abdicate;
quit; relinquish; renounce; desert; forsake; leave; retire; withdraw
from.
 -- To Abandon, Desert, Forsake. These words agree in representing a
person as giving up or leaving some object, but differ as to the mode
of doing it. The distinctive sense of abandon is that of giving up a
thing absolutely and finally; as, to abandon one's friends, places,
opinions, good or evil habits, a hopeless enterprise, a shipwrecked
vessel. Abandon is more widely applicable than forsake or desert. The
Latin original of desert appears to have been originally applied to
the case of deserters from military service. Hence, the verb, when
used of persons in the active voice, has usually or always a bad
sense, implying some breach of fidelity, honor, etc., the leaving of
something which the person should rightfully stand by and support;
as, to desert one's colors, to desert one's post, to desert one's
principles or duty. When used in the passive, the sense is not
necessarily bad; as, the fields were deserted, a deserted village,
deserted halls. Forsake implies the breaking off of previous habit,
association, personal connection, or that the thing left had been
familiar or frequented; as, to forsake old friends, to forsake the
paths of rectitude, the blood forsook his cheeks. It may be used
either in a good or in a bad sense.

ABANDON
A*ban"don, n. Etym: [F. abandon. fr. abandonner. See Abandon, v.]

Defn: Abandonment; relinquishment. [Obs.]

ABANDON
A`ban`don", n. Etym: [F. See Abandon.]

Defn: A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from
artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease.

ABANDONED
A*ban"doned, a.

1. Forsaken, deserted. "Your abandoned streams." Thomson.

2. Self-abandoned, or given up to vice; extremely wicked, or sinning
without restraint; irreclaimably wicked ; as, an abandoned villain.

Syn.
 -- Profligate; dissolute; corrupt; vicious; depraved; reprobate;
wicked; unprincipled; graceless; vile.
 -- Abandoned, Profligate, Reprobate. These adjectives agree in
expressing the idea of great personal depravity. Profligate has
reference to open and shameless immoralities, either in private life
or political conduct; as, a profligate court, a profligate ministry.
Abandoned is stronger, and has reference to the searing of conscience
and hardening of heart produced by a man's giving himself wholly up
to iniquity; as, a man of abandoned character. Reprobate describes
the condition of one who has become insensible to reproof, and who is
morally abandoned and lost beyond hope of recovery.
God gave them over to a reprobate mind. Rom. i. 28.

ABANDONEDLY
A*ban"doned*ly, adv.

Defn: Unrestrainedly.

ABANDONEE
A*ban`don*ee", n. (Law)

Defn: One to whom anything is legally abandoned.

ABANDONER
A*ban"don*er, n.

Defn: One who abandons. Beau. & Fl.

ABANDONMENT
A*ban"don*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abandonnement.]

1. The act of abandoning, or the state of being abandoned; total
desertion; relinquishment.
The abandonment of the independence of Europe. Burke.

2. (Mar. Law)

Defn: The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of what
may remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a peril
insured against.

3. (Com. Law)

Defn: (a) The relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege, as to
mill site, etc. (b) The voluntary leaving of a person to whom one is
bound by a special relation, as a wife, husband, or child; desertion.

4. Careless freedom or ease; abandon. [R.] Carlyle.

ABANDUM
A*ban"*dum, n. Etym: [LL. See Abandon.] (Law)

Defn: Anything forfeited or confiscated.

ABANET
Ab"a*net, n.

Defn: See Abnet.

ABANGA
A*ban"ga, n. Etym: [Name given by the negroes in the island of St.
Thomas.]

Defn: A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of
which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.

ABANNATION; ABANNITION
Ab`an*na"tion, Ab`an*nition, n. Etym: [LL. abannatio; ad + LL.
bannire to banish.] (Old Law)

Defn: Banishment. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABARTICULATION
Ab`ar*tic`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. ab + E. articulation : cf. F.
abarticulation. See Article.] (Anat.)

Defn: Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits of
free motion in the joint; diarthrosis. Coxe.

ABASE
A*base", v.t. [imp.&p.p. Abased; p.pr. & vb. n. Abasing.] Etym: [F.
abaisser, LL. abassare, abbassare ; ad + bassare, fr. bassus low. See
Base, a.]

1. To lower or depress; to throw or cast down; as, to abase the eye.
[Archaic] Bacon.
Saying so, he abased his lance. Shelton.

2. To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office, condition
in life, or estimation of worthiness; to depress; to humble; to
degrade.
Whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased. Luke xiv. ll.

Syn.
 -- To Abase, Debase, Degrade. These words agree in the idea of
bringing down from a higher to a lower state. Abase has reference to
a bringing down in condition or feelings; as to abase one's self
before God. Debase has reference to the bringing down of a thing in
purity, or making it base. It is, therefore, always used in a bad
sense, as, to debase the coin of the kingdom, to debase the mind by
vicious indulgence, to debase one's style by coarse or vulgar
expressions. Degrade has reference to a bringing down from some
higher grade or from some standard. Thus, a priest is degraded from
the clerical office. When used in a moral sense, it denotes a
bringing down in character and just estimation; as, degraded by
intemperance, a degrading employment, etc. "Art is degraded when it
is regarded only as a trade."

ABASED
A*based", a.

1. Lowered; humbled.

2. (Her.) Etym: [F. abaissé.]

Defn: Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of the
wings turned downward towards the point of the shield.

ABASEDLY
A*bas"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Abjectly; downcastly.

ABASEMENT
A*base"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abaissement.]

Defn: The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state of
being abased or humbled; humiliation.

ABASER
A*bas"er, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, abases.

ABASH
A*bash", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abashed; p.pr. & vb. n. Abashing.] Etym:
[OE. abaissen, abaisshen, abashen, OF.esbahir, F. ébahir, to
astonish, fr. L. ex + the interjection bah, expressing astonishment.
In OE. somewhat confused with abase. Cf. Finish.]

Defn: To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, as
by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or
inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit.
Abashed, the devil stood, And felt how awful goodness is. Milton.
He was a man whom no check could abash. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To confuse; confound; disconcert; shame.
 -- To Abash, Confuse, Confound. Abash is a stronger word than
confuse, but not so strong as confound. We are abashed when struck
either with sudden shame or with a humbling sense of inferiority; as,
Peter was abashed in the presence of those who are greatly his
superiors. We are confused when, from some unexpected or startling
occurrence, we lose clearness of thought and self-possession. Thus, a
witness is often confused by a severe cross-examination; a timid
person is apt to be confused in entering a room full of strangers. We
are confounded when our minds are overwhelmed, as it were, by
something wholly unexpected, amazing, dreadful, etc., so that we have
nothing to say. Thus, a criminal is usually confounded at the
discovery of his guilt.
Satan stood Awhile as mute, confounded what to say. Milton.

ABASHEDLY
A*bash"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abashed manner.

ABASHMENT
A*bash"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ébahissement.]

Defn: The state of being abashed; confusion from shame.

ABASIA
A*ba"si*a, n. [NL.; Gr. - not +  a step.] (Med.)

Defn: Inability to coördinate muscular actions properly in walking. -
- A*ba"sic (#), a.

ABASSI; ABASSIS
A*bas"si, A*bas"sis, n. Etym: [Ar.& Per. abasi, belonging to Abas (a
king of Persia).]

Defn: A silver coin of Persia, worth about twenty cents.

ABATABLE
A*bat"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance.

ABATE
A*bate", v.t. [imp.& p.p. Abated, p.pr. & vb.n. Abating.] Etym: [OF.
abatre to beat down, F. abattre, LL. abatere; ab or ad + batere,
battere (popular form for L. batuere to beat). Cf. Bate, Batter.]

1. To beat down; to overthrow. [Obs.]
The King of Scots . . . sore abated the walls. Edw. Hall.

2. To bring down or reduce from a higher to a lower state, number, or
degree; to lessen; to diminish; to contract; to moderate; toto cut
short; as, to abate a demand; to abate pride, zeal, hope.
His eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated. Deut. xxxiv. 7.

3. To deduct; to omit; as, to abate something from a price.
Nine thousand parishes, abating the odd hundreds. Fuller.

4. To blunt. [Obs.]
To abate the edge of envy. Bacon.

5. To reduce in estimation; to deprive. [Obs.]
She hath abated me of half my train. Shak.

6. (Law)

Defn: (a) To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with;
as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ. (b) (Eng. Law) To diminish;
to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or in
proportion, upon a deficiency of assets. To abate a tax, to remit it
either wholly or in part.

ABATE
A*bate", v.i. Etym: [See Abate, v.t.]

1. To decrease, or become less in strength or violence; as, pain
abates, a storm abates.
The fury of Glengarry . . . rapidly abated. Macaulay.

2. To be defeated, or come to naught; to fall through; to fail; as, a
writ abates. To abate into a freehold, To abate in lands (Law), to
enter into a freehold after the death of the last possessor, and
before the heir takes possession. See Abatement, 4.

Syn.
 -- To subside; decrease; intermit; decline; diminish; lessen.
 -- To Abate, Subside. These words, as here compared, imply a coming
down from some previously raised or exited state. Abate expresses
this in respect to degrees, and implies a diminution of force or of
intensity; as, the storm abates, the cold abates, the force of the
wind abates; or, the wind abates, a fever abates. Subside (to settle
down) has reference to a previous state of agitation or commotion;
as, the waves subside after a storm, the wind subsides into a calm.
When the words are used figuratively, the same distinction should be
observed. If we conceive of a thing as having different degrees of
intensity or strength, the word to be used is abate. Thus we say, a
man's anger abates, the ardor of one's love abates, "Winter rage
abates". But if the image be that of a sinking down into quiet from
preceding excitement or commotion, the word to be used is subside;
as, the tumult of the people subsides, the public mind subsided into
a calm. The same is the case with those emotions which are tumultuous
in their nature; as, his passion subsides, his joy quickly subsided,
his grief subsided into a pleasing melancholy. Yet if, in such cases,
we were thinking of the degree of violence of the emotion, we might
use abate; as, his joy will abate in the progress of time; and so in
other instances.

ABATE
A*bate, n.

Defn: Abatement. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ABATEMENT
A*bate"ment, n. Etym: [OF. abatement, F. abattement.]

1. The act of abating, or the state of being abated; a lessening,
diminution, or reduction; removal or putting an end to; as, the
abatement of a nuisance is the suppression thereof.

2. The amount abated; that which is taken away by way of reduction;
deduction; decrease; a rebate or discount allowed.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A mark of dishonor on an escutcheon.

4. (Law)

Defn: The entry of a stranger, without right, into a freehold after
the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.
Blackstone. Defense in abatement, Plea in abatement, (Law), plea to
the effect that from some formal defect (e.g. misnomer, want of
jurisdiction) the proceedings should be abated.

ABATER
A*bat"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, abates.

ABATIS; ABATTIS
Ab"a*tis, Aba"t*tis, n. Etym: [F. abatis, abattis, mass of things
beaten or cut down, fr. abattre. See Abate.] (Fort.)

Defn: A means of defense formed by felled trees, the ends of whose
branches are sharpened and directed outwards, or against the enemy.

ABATISED
Ab"a*tised, a.

Defn: Provided with an abatis.

ABATOR
A*ba"tor, n. (Law)

Defn: (a) One who abates a nuisance. (b) A person who, without right,
enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before the
heir or devisee. Blackstone.

ABATTOIR
A`bat`toir", n.; pl. Abattoirs. Etym: [F., fr. abattre to beat down.
See Abate.]

Defn: A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.

ABATURE
Ab"a*ture, n. Etym: [F. abatture, fr. abattre. See Abate.]

Defn: Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passing
through them. Crabb.

ABATVOIX
A`bat`voix", n. Etym: [F. abattre to beat down + voix voice.]

Defn: The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.

ABAWED
Ab*awed", p.p. Etym: [Perh. p.p. of a verb fr. OF. abaubir to
frighten, disconcert, fr. L. ad + balbus stammering.]

Defn: Astonished; abashed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABAXIAL; ABAXILE
Ab*ax"i*al, Ab*ax"ile, a. Etym: [L. ab + axis axle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Away from the axis or central line; eccentric. Balfour.

ABAY
A*bay", n. Etym: [OF. abay barking.]

Defn: Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay. [Obs.]

ABB
Abb, n. Etym: [AS. aweb, ab; pref. a- + web. See Web.]

Defn: Among weaves, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool for
the abb.

ABBA
Ab"ba, n. Etym: [Syriac abba father. See Abbot.]

Defn: Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and
Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops
to the patriarch.

ABBACY
Ab"ba*cy, n.; pl. Abbacies. Etym: [L. abbatia, fr. abbas, abbatis,
abbot. See Abbey.]

Defn: The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot.

ABBATIAL
Ab*ba"tial, a. Etym: [LL. abbatialis : cf. F. abbatial.]

Defn: Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights.

ABBATICAL
Ab*bat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Abbatial. [Obs.]

ABBE
Ab"bé`, n.Etym: [F. abbé. See Abbot.]

Defn: The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of an
abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one
vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.

Note: * After the 16th century, the name was given, in social
parlance, to candidates for some priory or abbey in the gift of the
crown. Many of these aspirants became well known in literary and
fashionable life. By further extension, the name came to be applied
to unbeneficed secular ecclesiastics generally. Littré.

ABBESS
Ab"bess, n. Etym: [OF.abaesse, abeesse, F. abbesse, L. abbatissa,
fem. of abbas, abbatis, abbot. See Abbot.]

Defn: A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of
nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have
over the monks. See Abbey.

ABBEY
Ab"bey, n.; pl. Abbeys. Etym: [OF. abaïe, F. abbaye, L. abbatia, fr.
abbas abbot. See Abbot.]

1. A monastery or society of persons of either sex, secluded from the
world and devoted to religion and celibacy; also, the monastic
building or buildings.

Note: The men are called monks, and governed by an abbot; the women
are called nuns, and governed by an abbess.

2. The church of a monastery.

Note: In London, the Abbey means Westminster Abbey, and in Scotland,
the precincts of the Abbey of Holyrood. The name is also retained for
a private residence on the site of an abbey; as, Newstead Abbey, the
residence of Lord Byron.

Syn.
 -- Monastery; convent; nunnery; priory; cloister. See Cloister.

ABBOT
Ab"bot, n. Etym: [AS. abbod, abbad, L. abbas, abbatis, Gr. abba
father. Cf. Abba, AbbÉ.]

1. The superior or head of an abbey.

2. One of a class of bishops whose sees were formerly abbeys. Encyc.
Brit. Abbot of the people. a title formerly given to one of the chief
magistrates in Genoa.
 -- Abbot of Misrule (or Lord of Misrule), in mediæval times, the
master of revels, as at Christmas; in Scotland called the Abbot of
Unreason. Encyc. Brit.

ABBOTSHIP
Ab"bot*ship, n. Etym: [Abbot + -ship.]

Defn: The state or office of an abbot.

ABBREVIATE
Ab*bre"vi*ate, v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abbreviated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Abbreviating.] Etym: [L. abbreviatus, p.p. of abbreviare; ad +
breviare to shorten, fr. brevis short. See Abridge.]

1. To make briefer; to shorten; to abridge; to reduce by contraction
or omission, especially of words written or spoken.
It is one thing to abbreviate by contracting, another by cutting off.
Bacon.

2. (Math.)

Defn: To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction.

ABBREVIATE
Ab*bre"vi*ate, a. Etym: [L. abbreviatus, p.p.]

1. Abbreviated; abridged; shortened. [R.] "The abbreviate form."
Earle.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Having one part relatively shorter than another or than the
ordinary type.

ABBREVIATE
Ab*bre"vi*ate, n.

Defn: An abridgment. [Obs.] Elyot.

ABBREVIATED
Ab*bre"vi*a`ted, a.

Defn: Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate.

ABBREVIATION
Ab*bre`vi*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. abbreviatio: cf. F. abbréviation.]

1. The act of shortening, or reducing.

2. The result of abbreviating; an abridgment. Tylor.

3. The form to which a word or phrase is reduced by contraction and
omission; a letter or letters, standing for a word or phrase of which
they are a part; as, Gen. for Genesis; U.S.A. for United States of
America.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: One dash, or more, through the stem of a note, dividing it
respectively into quavers, semiquavers, or demi-semiquavers. Moore.

ABBREVIATOR
Ab*bre"vi*a`tor, n. Etym: [LL.: cf. F. abbréviateur.]

1. One who abbreviates or shortens.

2. One of a college of seventy-two officers of the papal court whose
duty is to make a short minute of a decision on a petition, or reply
of the pope to a letter, and afterwards expand the minute into
official form.

ABBREVIATORY
Ab*bre"vi*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening; abridging.

ABBREVIATURE
Ab*bre"vi*a*ture, n.

1. An abbreviation; an abbreviated state or form. [Obs.]

2. An abridgment; a compendium or abstract.
This is an excellent abbreviature of the whole duty of a Christian.
Jer. Taylor.

ABB WOOL
Abb" wool.

Defn: See Abb.

A B C
A B C".

1. The first three letters of the alphabet, used for the whole
alphabet.

2. A primer for teaching the alphabet and first elements of reading.
[Obs.]

3. The simplest rudiments of any subject; as, the A B C of finance. A
B C book, a primer. Shak.

ABDAL
Ab"dal, n. Etym: [Ar. badil, pl. abdal, a substitute, a good,
religious man, saint, fr. badala to change, substitute.]

Defn: A religious devotee or dervish in Persia.

ABDERIAN
Ab*de"ri*an, a. Etym: [From Abdera, a town in Thrace, of which place
Democritus, the Laughing Philosopher, was a native.]

Defn: Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant merriment.

ABDERITE
Ab*de"rite, n. Etym: [L. Abderita, Abderites, fr. Gr. '

Defn: An inhabitant of Abdera, in Thrace. The Abderite, Democritus,
the Laughing Philosopher.

ABDEST
Ab"dest, n. Etym: [Per. abdast; ab water + dast hand.]

Defn: Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- a
Mohammedan rite. Heyse.

ABDICABLE
Ab"di*ca*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being abdicated.

ABDICANT
Ab"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. abdicans, p.pr. of abdicare.]

Defn: Abdicating; renouncing; -- followed by of.
Monks abdicant of their orders. Whitlock.

ABDICANT
Ab"di*cant, n.

Defn: One who abdicates. Smart.

ABDICATE
Ab"di*cate, v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abdicated; p.pr. & vb.n. Abdicating.]
Etym: [L. abdicatus, p.p. of abdicare; ab + dicare to proclaim, akin
to dicere to say. See Diction.]

1. To surrender or relinquish, as sovereign power; to withdraw
definitely from filling or exercising, as a high office, station,
dignity; as, to abdicate the throne, the crown, the papacy.

Note: The word abdicate was held to mean, in the case of James II.,
to abandon without a formal surrender.
The cross-bearers abdicated their service. Gibbon.

2. To renounce; to relinquish; -- said of authority, a trust, duty,
right, etc.
He abdicates all right to be his own governor. Burke.
The understanding abdicates its functions. Froude.

3. To reject; to cast off. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

4. (Civil Law)

Defn: To disclaim and expel from the family, as a father his child;
to disown; to disinherit.

Syn.
 -- To give up; quit; vacate; relinquish; forsake; abandon; resign;
renounce; desert.
 -- To Abdicate, Resign. Abdicate commonly expresses the act of a
monarch in voluntary and formally yielding up sovereign authority;
as, to abdicate the government. Resign is applied to the act of any
person, high or low, who gives back an office or trust into the hands
of him who conferred it. Thus, a minister resigns, a military officer
resigns, a clerk resigns. The expression, "The king resigned his
crown," sometimes occurs in our later literature, implying that he
held it from his people.
 -- There are other senses of resign which are not here brought into
view.

ABDICATE
Ab"di*cate, v.i.

Defn: To relinquish or renounce a throne, or other high office or
dignity.
Though a king may abdicate for his own person, he cannot abdicate for
the monarchy. Burke.

ABDICATION
Ab`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. abdicatio: cf. F. abdication.]

Defn: The act of abdicating; the renunciation of a high office,
dignity, or trust, by its holder; commonly the voluntary renunciation
of sovereign power; as, abdication of the throne, government, power,
authority.

ABDICATIVE
Ab"di*ca*tive, a. Etym: [L. abdicativus.]

Defn: Causing, or implying, abdication. [R.] Bailey.

ABDICATOR
Ab"di*ca`tor, n.

Defn: One who abdicates.

ABDITIVE
Ab"di*tive, a. Etym: [L. abditivus, fr. abdere to hide.]

Defn: Having the quality of hiding. [R.] Bailey.

ABDITORY
Ab"di*to*ry, n. Etym: [L. abditorium.]

Defn: A place for hiding or preserving articles of value. Cowell.

ABDOMEN
Ab*do"men, n. Etym: [L. abdomen (a word of uncertain etymol.): cf. F.
abdomen.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The belly, or that part of the body between the thorax and the
pelvis. Also, the cavity of the belly, which is lined by the
peritoneum, and contains the stomach, bowels, and other viscera. In
man, often restricted to the part between the diaphragm and the
commencement of the pelvis, the remainder being called the pelvic
cavity.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The posterior section of the body, behind the thorax, in
insects, crustaceans, and other Arthropoda.

ABDOMINAL
Ab*dom"i*nal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abdominal.]

1. Of or pertaining to the abdomen; ventral; as, the abdominal
regions, muscles, cavity.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having abdominal fins; belonging to the Abdominales; as,
abdominal fishes. Abdominal ring (Anat.), a fancied ringlike opening
on each side of the abdomen, external and superior to the pubes; --
called also inguinal ring.

ABDOMINAL
Ab*dom"i*nal, n.; E. pl. Abdominals, L. pl. Abdominales.

Defn: A fish of the group Abdominales.

ABDOMINALES
Ab*dom`i*na"les, n. pl. Etym: [NL., masc. pl.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group including the greater part of fresh-water fishes, and
many marine ones, having the ventral fins under the abdomen behind
the pectorals.

ABDOMINALIA
Ab*dom`i*na"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., neut. pl.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of cirripeds having abdominal appendages.

ABDOMINOSCOPY
Ab*dom`i*nos"co*py, n. Etym: [L. abdomen + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Examination of the abdomen to detect abdominal disease.

ABDOMINOTHORACIC
Ab*dom`i*no*tho*rac"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to the abdomen and the thorax, or chest.

ABDOMINOUS
Ab*dom"i*nous, a.

Defn: Having a protuberant belly; pot-bellied.
Gorgonius sits, abdominous and wan, Like a fat squab upon a Chinese
fan. Cowper.

ABDUCE
Ab*duce", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abduced; p.pr. & vb.n. Abducing.] Etym:
[L. abducere to lead away; ab + ducere to lead. See Duke, and cf.
Abduct.]

Defn: To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a different
part. [Obs.]
If we abduce the eye unto either corner, the object will not
duplicate. Sir T. Browne.

ABDUCT
Ab*duct", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abducted; p.pr. & vb.n. Abducting.] Etym:
[L. abductus, p.p. of abducere. See Abduce.]

1. To take away surreptitiously by force; to carry away (a human
being) wrongfully and usually by violence; to kidnap.

2. To draw away, as a limb or other part, from its ordinary position.

ABDUCTION
Ab*duc"tion, n. Etym: [L. abductio: cf. F. abduction.]

1. The act of abducing or abducting; a drawing apart; a carrying
away. Roget.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The movement which separates a limb or other part from the
axis, or middle line, of the body.

3. (Law)

Defn: The wrongful, and usually the forcible, carrying off of a human
being; as, the abduction of a child, the abduction of an heiress.

4. (Logic)

Defn: A syllogism or form of argument in which the major is evident,
but the minor is only probable.

ABDUCTOR
Ab*duc"tor, n. Etym: [NL.]

1. One who abducts.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which serves to draw a part out, or form the median
line of the body; as, the abductor oculi, which draws the eye
outward.

ABEAM
A*beam", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + beam.] (Naut.)

Defn: On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle with
the ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side.

ABEAR
A*bear", v.t. Etym: [AS. aberan; pref. a- + beran to bear.]

1. To bear; to behave. [Obs.]
So did the faery knight himself abear. Spenser.

2. To put up with; to endure. [Prov.] Dickens.

ABEARANCE
A*bear"ance, n.

Defn: Behavior. [Obs.] Blackstone.

ABEARING
A*bear"ing, n.

Defn: Behavior. [Obs.] Sir. T. More.

ABECEDARIAN
A`be*ce*da"ri*an, n. Etym: [L. abecedarius. A word from the first
four letters of the alphabet.]

1. One who is learning the alphabet; hence, a tyro.

2. One engaged in teaching the alphabet. Wood.

ABECEDARIAN; ABECEDARY
A`be*ce*da"ri*an, A`be*ce"da*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or formed by, the letters of the alphabet;
alphabetic; hence, rudimentary. Abecedarian psalms, hymns, etc.,
compositions in which (like the 119th psalm in Hebrew) distinct
portions or verses commence with successive letters of the alphabet.
Hook.

ABECEDARY
A`be*ce"da*ry, n.

Defn: A primer; the first principle or rudiment of anything. [R.]
Fuller.

ABED
A*bed", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- in, on + bed.]

1. In bed, or on the bed.
Not to be abed after midnight. Shak.

2. To childbed (in the phrase "brought abed," that is, delivered of a
child). Shak.

ABEGGE
A*beg"ge.

Defn: Same as Aby. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABELE
A*bele", n. Etym: [D. abeel (abeel-boom), OF. abel, aubel, fr. a dim.
of L. albus white.]

Defn: The white polar (Populus alba).
Six abeles i' the churchyard grow. Mrs. Browning.

ABELIAN; ABELITE; ABELONIAN
A*bel"i*an, A"bel*ite, A`bel*o"ni*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect in Africa (4th century), mentioned by St.
Augustine, who states that they married, but lived in continence,
after the manner, as they pretended, of Abel.

ABELMOSK
A"bel*mosk`, n. Etym: [NL. abelmoschus, fr. Ar. abu-l-misk father of
musk, i.e., producing musk. See Musk.] (Bot.)

Defn: An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus-
moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whose
musky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimes
called musk mallow.

ABER-DE-VINE
Ab`er-de-vine", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European siskin (Carduelis spinus), a small green and
yellow finch, related to the goldfinch.

ABERR
Ab*err", v.i. Etym: [L. aberrare. See Aberrate.]

Defn: To wander; to stray. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ABERRANCE; ABERRANCY
Ab*er"rance, Ab*er"ran*cy, n.

Defn: State of being aberrant; a wandering from the right way;
deviation from truth, rectitude, etc. Aberrancy of curvature (Geom.),
the deviation of a curve from a circular form.

ABERRANT
Ab*er"rant, a. Etym: [L. aberrans, -rantis, p.pr. of aberrare.]

Defn: See Aberr.]

1. Wandering; straying from the right way.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Deviating from the ordinary or natural type; exceptional;
abnormal.
The more aberrant any form is, the greater must have been the number
of connecting forms which, on my theory, have been exterminated.
Darwin.

ABERRATE
Ab"er*rate, v.i. Etym: [L. aberratus, p.pr. of aberrare; ab + errare
to wander. See Err.]

Defn: To go astray; to diverge. [R.]
Their own defective and aberrating vision. De Quincey.

ABERRATION
Ab`er*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. aberratio: cf. F. aberration. See
Aberrate.]

1. The act of wandering; deviation, especially from truth or moral
rectitude, from the natural state, or from a type. "The aberration of
youth." Hall. "Aberrations from theory." Burke.

2. A partial alienation of reason. "Occasional aberrations of
intellect." Lingard.
Whims, which at first are the aberrations of a single brain, pass
with heat into epidemic form. I. Taylor.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: A small periodical change of position in the stars and other
heavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of light
and the motion of the observer; called annual aberration, when the
observer's motion is that of the earth in its orbit, and dairy or
diurnal aberration, when of the earth on its axis; amounting when
greatest, in the former case, to 20.4'', and in the latter, to 0.3''.
Planetary aberration is that due to the motion of light and the
motion of the planet relative to the earth.

4. (Opt.)

Defn: The convergence to different foci, by a lens or mirror, of rays
of light emanating from one and the same point, or the deviation of
such rays from a single focus; called spherical aberration, when due
to the spherical form of the lens or mirror, such form giving
different foci for central and marginal rays; and chromatic
aberration, when due to different refrangibilities of the colored
rays of the spectrum, those of each color having a distinct focus.

5. (Physiol.)

Defn: The passage of blood or other fluid into parts not appropriate
for it.

6. (Law)

Defn: The producing of an unintended effect by the glancing of an
instrument, as when a shot intended for A glances and strikes B.

Syn.
 -- Insanity; lunacy; madness; derangement; alienation; mania;
dementia; hallucination; illusion; delusion. See Insanity.

ABERRATIONAL
Ab`er*ra"tion*al, a.

Defn: Characterized by aberration.

ABERUNCATE
Ab`e*run"cate, v.t. Etym: [L. aberuncare, for aberruncare. See
Averruncate.]

Defn: To weed out. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABERUNCATOR
Ab`e*run"ca*tor, n.

Defn: A weeding machine.

ABET
A*bet", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abetted; p.pr. & vb.n. Abetting.] Etym:
[OF. abeter; a (L. ad) + beter to bait (as a bear), fr. Icel. beita
to set dogs on, to feed, originally, to cause to bite, fr. Icel. bita
to bite, hence to bait, to incite. See Bait, Bet.]

1. To instigate or encourage by aid or countenance; -- used in a bad
sense of persons and acts; as, to abet an ill-doer; to abet one in
his wicked courses; to abet vice; to abet an insurrection. "The whole
tribe abets the villany." South.
Would not the fool abet the stealth, Who rashly thus exposed his
wealth Gay.

2. To support, uphold, or aid; to maintain; -- in a good sense.
[Obs.].
Our duty is urged, and our confidence abetted. Jer. Taylor.

3. (Law)

Defn: To contribute, as an assistant or instigator, to the commission
of an offense.

Syn.
 -- To incite; instigate; set on; egg on; foment; advocate;
countenance; encourage; second; uphold; aid; assist; support;
sustain; back; connive at.

ABET
A*bet", n. Etym: [OF. abet, fr. abeter.]

Defn: Act of abetting; aid. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABETMENT
A*bet"ment, n.

Defn: The act of abetting; as, an abetment of treason, crime, etc.

ABETTAL
A*bet"tal, n.

Defn: Abetment. [R.]

ABETTER; ABETTOR
A*bet"ter, A*bet*tor, n.

Defn: One who abets; an instigator of an offense or an offender.

Note: The form abettor is the legal term and also in general use.

Syn.
 -- Abettor, Accessory, Accomplice. These words denote different
degrees of complicity in some deed or crime. An abettor is one who
incites or encourages to the act, without sharing in its performance.
An accessory supposes a principal offender. One who is neither the
chief actor in an offense, nor present at its performance, but
accedes to or becomes involved in its guilt, either by some previous
or subsequent act, as of instigating, encouraging, aiding, or
concealing, etc., is an accessory. An accomplice is one who
participates in the commission of an offense, whether as principal or
accessory. Thus in treason, there are no abettors or accessories, but
all are held to be principals or accomplices.

ABEVACUATION
Ab`e*vac"u*a"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. ab- + evacuation.] (Med.)

Defn: A partial evacuation. Mayne.

ABEYANCE
A*bey"ance, n. Etym: [OF. abeance expectation, longing; a (L. ad) +
baer, beer, to gape, to look with open mouth, to expect, F. bayer,
LL. badare to gape.]

1. (Law)

Defn: Expectancy; condition of being undetermined.

Note: When there is no person in existence in whom an inheritance (or
a dignity) can vest, it is said to be in abeyance, that is, in
expectation; the law considering it as always potentially existing,
and ready to vest whenever a proper owner appears. Blackstone.

2. Suspension; temporary suppression.
Keeping the sympathies of love and admiration in a dormant state, or
state of abeyance. De Quincey.

ABEYANCY
A*bey"an*cy, n.

Defn: Abeyance. [R.] Hawthorne.

ABEYANT
A*bey"ant, a.

Defn: Being in a state of abeyance.

ABGEORDNETENHAUS
Ab"ge*ord`ne*ten*haus`, n.  [G.]

Defn: See Legislature, Austria, Prussia.

ABHAL
Ab"hal, n.

Defn: The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies.

ABHOMINABLE
Ab*hom"i*na*ble, a.

Defn: Abominable.

Note: [A false orthography anciently used; h was foisted into various
words; hence abholish, for abolish, etc.]
This is abhominable, which he [Don Armado] would call abominable.
Shak. Love's Labor's Lost, v. 1.

ABHOMINAL
Ab*hom`i*nal, a. Etym: [L. ab away from + homo, hominis, man.]

Defn: Inhuman. [Obs.] Fuller.

ABHOR
Ab*hor", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abhorred; p. pr. & vb. n. Abhorring.]
Etym: [L. abhorrere; ab + horrere to bristle, shiver, shudder: cf. F.
abhorrer. See Horrid.]

1. To shrink back with shuddering from; to regard with horror or
detestation; to feel excessive repugnance toward; to detest to
extremity; to loathe.
Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good. Rom. xii. 9.

2. To fill with horror or disgust. [Obs.]
It doth abhor me now I speak the word. Shak.

3. (Canon Law)

Defn: To protest against; to reject solemnly. [Obs.]
I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul Refuse you for my judge. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To hate; detest; loathe; abominate. See Hate.

ABHOR
Ab*hor", v. i.

Defn: To shrink back with horror, disgust, or dislike; to be contrary
or averse; -- with from. [Obs.] "To abhor from those vices." Udall.
Which is utterly abhorring from the end of all law. Milton.

ABHORRENCE
Ab*hor"rence, n.

Defn: Extreme hatred or detestation; the feeling of utter dislike.

ABHORRENCY
Ab*hor"ren*cy, n.

Defn: Abhorrence. [Obs.] Locke.

ABHORRENT
Ab*hor"rent, a. Etym: [L. abhorens, -rentis, p. pr. of abhorrere.]

1. Abhorring; detesting; having or showing abhorrence; loathing;
hence, strongly opposed to; as, abhorrent thoughts.
The persons most abhorrent from blood and treason. Burke.
The arts of pleasure in despotic courts I spurn abhorrent. Clover.

2. Contrary or repugnant; discordant; inconsistent; -- followed by
to. "Injudicious profanation, so abhorrent to our stricter
principles." Gibbon.

3. Detestable. "Pride, abhorrent as it is." I. Taylor.

ABHORRENTLY
Ab*hor"rent*ly, adv.

Defn: With abhorrence.

ABHORRER
Ab*hor"rer, n.

Defn: One who abhors. Hume.

ABHORRIBLE
Ab*hor"ri*ble, a.

Defn: Detestable. [R.]

ABHORRING
Ab*hor"ring, n.

1. Detestation. Milton.

2. Object of abhorrence. Isa. lxvi. 24.

ABIB
A"bib, n. Etym: [Heb. abib, lit. an ear of corn. The month was so
called from barley being at that time in ear.]

Defn: The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year,
corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivity
this month was called Nisan. Kitto.

ABIDANCE
A*bid"ance, n.

Defn: The state of abiding; abode; continuance; compliance (with).
The Christians had no longer abidance in the holy hill of Palestine.
Fuller.
A judicious abidance by rules. Helps.

ABIDE
A*bide", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Abode, formerly Abid(#); p. pr. & vb. n.
Abiding.] Etym: [AS. abidan; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-, G. er-, orig.
meaning out) + bidan to bide. See Bide.]

1. To wait; to pause; to delay. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To stay; to continue in a place; to have one's abode; to dwell; to
sojourn; -- with with before a person, and commonly with at or in
before a place.
Let the damsel abide with us a few days. Gen. xxiv. 55.

3. To remain stable or fixed in some state or condition; to continue;
to remain.
Let every man abide in the same calling. 1 Cor. vii. 20.
Followed by by: To abide by. (a) To stand to; to adhere; to maintain.
The poor fellow was obstinate enough to abide by what he said at
first. Fielding.
(b) To acquiesce; to conform to; as, to abide by a decision or an
award.

ABIDE
A*bide", v. t.

1. To wait for; to be prepared for; to await; to watch for; as, I
abide my time. "I will abide the coming of my lord." Tennyson.

Note: [[Obs.], with a personal object.
Bonds and afflictions abide me. Acts xx. 23.

2. To endure; to sustain; to submit to.
[Thou] shalt abide her judgment on it. Tennyson.

3. To bear patiently; to tolerate; to put up with.
She could not abide Master Shallow. Shak.

4.

Note: [Confused with aby to pay for. See Aby.]

Defn: To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer for.
Dearly I abide that boast so vain. Milton.

ABIDER
A*bid"er, n.

1. One who abides, or continues. [Obs.] "Speedy goers and strong
abiders." Sidney.

2. One who dwells; a resident. Speed.

ABIDING
A*bid"ing, a.

Defn: Continuing; lasting.

ABIDINGLY
A*bid"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: Permanently. Carlyle.

ABIES
A"bi*es, n. Etym: [L., fir tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsam
fir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred to
this genus.

ABIETENE
Ab"i*e*tene, n. Etym: [L. abies, abietis, a fir tree.]

Defn: A volatile oil distilled from the resin or balsam of the nut
pine (Pinus sabiniana) of California.

ABIETIC
Ab`i*et"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the fir tree or its products; as, abietic
acid, called also sylvic acid. Watts.

ABIETIN; ABIETINE
Ab"i*e*tin, Ab"i*e*tine, n. Etym: [See Abietene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A resinous obtained from Strasburg turpentine or Canada balsam.
It is without taste or smell, is insoluble in water, but soluble in
alcohol (especially at the boiling point), in strong acetic acid, and
in ether. Watts.

ABIETINIC
Ab`i*e*tin"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid.

ABIETITE
Ab"i*e*tite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance resembling mannite, found in the needles of the
common silver fir of Europe (Abies pectinata). Eng. Cyc.

ABIGAIL
Ab"i*gail, n. Etym: [The proper name used as an appellative.]

Defn: A lady's waiting-maid. Pepys.
Her abigail reported that Mrs. Gutheridge had a set of night curls
for sleeping in. Leslie.

ABILIMENT
A*bil"i*ment, n.

Defn: Habiliment. [Obs.]

ABILITY
A*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Abilities(#). Etym: [F. habileté, earlier
spelling habilité (with silent h), L. habilitas aptitude, ability,
fr. habilis apt. See Able.]

Defn: The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whether
physical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal; capacity;
skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill,
resources, etc.; -- in the plural, faculty, talent.
Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, determined to
send relief unto the brethren. Acts xi. 29.
Natural abilities are like natural plants, that need pruning by
study. Bacon.
The public men of England, with much of a peculiar kind of ability.
Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Capacity; talent; cleverness; faculty; capability; efficiency;
aptitude; aptness; address; dexterity; skill. Ability, Capacity.
These words come into comparison when applied to the higher
intellectual powers. Ability has reference to the active exercise of
our faculties. It implies not only native vigor of mind, but that
ease and promptitude of execution which arise from mental training.
Thus, we speak of the ability with which a book is written, an
argument maintained, a negotiation carried on, etc. It always
something to be done, and the power of doing it. Capacity has
reference to the receptive powers. In its higher exercises it
supposes great quickness of apprehension and breadth of intellect,
with an uncommon aptitude for acquiring and retaining knowledge.
Hence it carries with it the idea of resources and undeveloped power.
Thus we speak of the extraordinary capacity of such men as Lord
Bacon, Blaise Pascal, and Edmund Burke. "Capacity," says H. Taylor,
"is requisite to devise, and ability to execute, a great enterprise."
The word abilities, in the plural, embraces both these qualities, and
denotes high mental endowments.

ABIME; ABYME
A*bime" or A*byme", n. Etym: [F. abîme. See Abysm.]

Defn: A abyss. [Obs.]

ABIOGENESIS
Ab`i*o*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The supposed origination of living organisms from lifeless
matter; such genesis as does not involve the action of living
parents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposed
to biogenesis.
I shall call the . . . doctrine that living matter may be produced by
not living matter, the hypothesis of abiogenesis. Huxley, 1870.

ABIOGENETIC
Ab`i*o*ge*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to abiogenesis. Ab`i*o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.

ABIOGENIST
Ab`i*og"e*nist, n. (Biol.)

Defn: One who believes that life can be produced independently of
antecedent. Huxley.

ABIOGENOUS
Ab`i*og"e*nous, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Produced by spontaneous generation.

ABIOGENY
Ab`i*og"e*ny, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Abiogenesis.

ABIOLOGICAL
Ab`i*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. biological.]

Defn: Pertaining to the study of inanimate things.

ABIRRITANT
Ab*ir"ri*tant, n. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine that diminishes irritation.

ABIRRITATE
Ab*ir"ri*tate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. ab- + irritate.] (Med.)

Defn: To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate.

ABIRRITATION
Ab*ir`ri*ta"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: A pathological condition opposite to that of irritation;
debility; want of strength; asthenia.

ABIRRITATIVE
Ab*ir"ri*ta*tive, a. (Med.)

Defn: Characterized by abirritation or debility.

ABIT
A*bit",

Defn: 3d sing. pres. of Abide. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABJECT
Ab"ject, a. Etym: [L. abjectus, p. p. of abjicere to throw away; ab +
jacere to throw. See Jet a shooting forth.]

1. Cast down; low-lying. [Obs.]
From the safe shore their floating carcasses And broken chariot
wheels; so thick bestrown Abject and lost lay these, covering the
flood. Milton.

2. Sunk to a law condition; down in spirit or hope; degraded;
servile; groveling; despicable; as, abject posture, fortune,
thoughts. "Base and abject flatterers." Addison. "An abject liar."
Macaulay.
And banish hence these abject, lowly dreams. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Mean; groveling; cringing; mean-spirited; slavish; ignoble;
worthless; vile; beggarly; contemptible; degraded.

ABJECT
Ab*ject", v. t. Etym: [From Abject, a.]

Defn: To cast off or down; hence, to abase; to degrade; to lower; to
debase. [Obs.] Donne.

ABJECT
Ab"ject, n.

Defn: A person in the lowest and most despicable condition; a
castaway. [Obs.]
Shall these abjects, these victims, these outcasts, know any thing of
pleasure I. Taylor.

ABJECTEDNESS
Ab*ject"ed*ness, n.

Defn: A very abject or low condition; abjectness. [R.] Boyle.

ABJECTION
Ab*jec"tion, n. Etym: [F. abjection, L. abjectio.]

1. The act of bringing down or humbling. "The abjection of the king
and his realm." Joe.

2. The state of being rejected or cast out. [R.]
An adjection from the beatific regions where God, and his angels and
saints, dwell forever. Jer. Taylor.

3. A low or downcast state; meanness of spirit; abasement;
degradation.
That this should be termed baseness, abjection of mind, or servility,
is it credible Hooker.

ABJECTLY
Ab"ject*ly, adv.

Defn: Meanly; servilely.

ABJECTNESS
Ab"ject*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being abject; abasement; meanness; servility.
Grew.

ABJUDGE
Ab*judge", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ab- + judge, v. Cf. Abjudicate.]

Defn: To take away by judicial decision. [R.]

ABJUDICATE
Ab*ju"di*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. abjudicatus, p. p. of abjudicare; ab +
judicare. See Judge, and cf. Abjudge.]

Defn: To reject by judicial sentence; also, to abjudge. [Obs.] Ash.

ABJUDICATION
Ab*ju`di*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Rejection by judicial sentence. [R.] Knowles.

ABJUGATE
Ab"ju*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. abjugatus, p. p. of abjugare.]

Defn: To unyoke. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABJUNCTIVE
Ab*junc"tive, a. Etym: [L. abjunctus, p. p. of abjungere; ab +
jungere to join.]

Defn: Exceptional. [R.]
It is this power which leads on from the accidental and abjunctive to
the universal. I. Taylor.

ABJURATION
Ab`ju*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. abjuratio: cf. F. abjuration.]

1. The act of abjuring or forswearing; a renunciation upon oath; as,
abjuration of the realm, a sworn banishment, an oath taken to leave
the country and never to return.

2. A solemn recantation or renunciation; as, an abjuration of heresy.
Oath of abjuration, an oath asserting the right of the present royal
family to the crown of England, and expressly abjuring allegiance to
the descendants of the Pretender. Brande & C.

ABJURATORY
Ab*ju"ra*to*ry, a.

Defn: Containing abjuration.

ABJURE
Ab*jure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abjured; p. pr. & vb. n. Abjuring.]
Etym: [L. abjurare to deny upon oath; ab + jurare to swear, fr. jus,
juris, right, law; cf. F. abjurer. See Jury.]

1. To renounce upon oath; to forswear; to disavow; as, to abjure
allegiance to a prince. To abjure the realm, is to swear to abandon
it forever.

2. To renounce or reject with solemnity; to recant; to abandon
forever; to reject; repudiate; as, to abjure errors. "Magic I here
abjure." Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Renounce.

ABJURE
Ab*jure", v. i.

Defn: To renounce on oath. Bp. Burnet.

ABJUREMENT
Ab*jure"ment, n.

Defn: Renunciation. [R.]

ABJURER
Ab*jur"er, n.

Defn: One who abjures.

ABLACTATE
Ab*lac"tate, v. t. Etym: [L. ablactatus, p. p. of ablactare; ab +
lactare to suckle, fr. lac milk.]

Defn: To wean. [R.] Bailey.

ABLACTATION
Ab`lac*ta"tion. n.

1. The weaning of a child from the breast, or of young beasts from
their dam. Blount.

2. (Hort.)

Defn: The process of grafting now called inarching, or grafting by
approach.

ABLAQUEATE
Ab*la"que*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. ablaqueatus, p. p. of. ablaqueare; fr.
ab + laqueus a noose.]

Defn: To lay bare, as the roots of a tree. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABLAQUEATION
Ab*la`que*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. ablaqueatio.]

Defn: The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees to expose
them to the air and water. [Obs.] Evelyn.

ABLASTEMIC
Ab`las*tem"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Non-germinal.

ABLATION
Ab*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. ablatio, fr. ablatus p. p. of auferre to
carry away; ab + latus, p. p. of ferre carry: cf. F. ablation. See
Tolerate.]

1. A carrying or taking away; removal. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Extirpation. Dunglison.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: Wearing away; superficial waste. Tyndall.

ABLATITIOUS
Ab`la*ti"tious, a.

Defn: Diminishing; as, an ablatitious force. Sir J. Herschel.

ABLATIVE
Ab"la*tive, a. Etym: [F. ablatif, ablative, L. ablativus fr. ablatus.
See Ablation.]

1. Taking away or removing. [Obs.]
Where the heart is forestalled with misopinion, ablative directions
are found needful to unteach error, ere we can learn truth. Bp. Hall.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Applied to one of the cases of the noun in Latin and some other
languages, -- the fundamental meaning of the case being removal,
separation, or taking away.

ABLATIVE
Ab"la*tive, (Gram.)

Defn: The ablative case. ablative absolute, a construction in Latin,
in which a noun in the ablative case has a participle (either
expressed or implied), agreeing with it in gender, number, and case,
both words forming a clause by themselves and being unconnected,
grammatically, with the rest of the sentence; as, Tarquinio regnante,
Pythagoras venit, i. e., Tarquinius reigning, Pythagoras came.

ABLAUT
Ab"laut, n. Etym: [Ger., off-sound; ab off + laut sound.] (Philol.)

Defn: The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicating
a corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation;
as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung. Earle.

ABLAZE
A*blaze", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + blaze.]

1. On fire; in a blaze, gleaming. Milman.
All ablaze with crimson and gold. Longfellow.

2. In a state of glowing excitement or ardent desire.
The young Cambridge democrats were all ablaze to assist Torrijos.
Carlyle.

ABLE
A"ble, a. [Comp. Abler; superl. Ablest.] Etym: [OF. habile, L.
habilis that may be easily held or managed, apt, skillful, fr. habere
to have, hold. Cf. Habile and see Habit.]

1. Fit; adapted; suitable. [Obs.]
A many man, to ben an abbot able. Chaucer.

2. Having sufficient power, strength, force, skill, means, or
resources of any kind to accomplish the object; possessed of
qualifications rendering competent for some end; competent;
qualified; capable; as, an able workman, soldier, seaman, a man able
to work; a mind able to reason; a person able to be generous; able to
endure pain; able to play on a piano.

3. Specially: Having intellectual qualifications, or strong mental
powers; showing ability or skill; talented; clever; powerful; as, the
ablest man in the senate; an able speech.
No man wrote abler state papers. Macaulay.

4. (Law)

Defn: Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence; as, able to
inherit or devise property.

Note: Able for, is Scotticism.
"Hardly able for such a march." Robertson.

Syn.
 -- Competent; qualified; fitted; efficient; effective; capable;
skillful; clever; vigorous; powerful.

ABLE
A"ble, v. t. Etym: [See Able, a.] [Obs.]

1. To make able; to enable; to strengthen. Chaucer.

2. To vouch for. "I 'll able them." Shak.

ABLE; -ABLE; IBLE; -IBLE
*a*ble. Etym: [F. -able, L. -abilis.]

Defn: An adjective suffix now usually in a passive sense; able to be;
fit to be; expressing capacity or worthiness in a passive sense; as,
movable, able to be moved; amendable, able to be amended; blamable,
fit to be blamed; salable.

Note: The form ible is used in the same sense.

Note: It is difficult to say when we are not to use -able instead of
-ible. "Yet a rule may be laid down as to when we are to use it. To
all verbs, then, from the Anglo-Saxon, to all based on the
uncorrupted infinitival stems of Latin verbs of the first
conjugation, and to all substantives, whencesoever sprung, we annex -
able only." Fitzed. Hall.

ABLE-BODIED
A`ble-bod"ied, a.

Defn: Having a sound, strong body; physically competent; robust.
"Able-bodied vagrant." Froude.
 -- A`ble-bod"ied*ness, n..

ABLEGATE
Ab"le*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. ablegatus, p. p. of ablegare; ab + legare
to send with a commission. See Legate.]

Defn: To send abroad. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABLEGATE
Ab"le*gate, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A representative of the pope charged with important commissions
in foreign countries, one of his duties being to bring to a newly
named cardinal his insignia of office.

ABLEGATION
Ab`le*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. ablegatio.]

Defn: The act of sending abroad. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

ABLE-MINDED
A`ble-mind"ed, a.

Defn: Having much intellectual power.
 -- A`ble-mind"ed*ness, n.

ABLENESS
A"ble*ness, n.

Defn: Ability of body or mind; force; vigor. [Obs. or R.]

ABLEPSY
Ab"lep*sy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Blindness. [R.] Urquhart.

ABLER
A"bler, a.,

Defn: comp. of Able.
 -- A"blest, a.,

Defn: superl. of Able.

ABLET; ABLEN
Ab"let, Ab"len Etym: [F. ablet, ablette, a dim. fr. LL. abula, for
albula, dim. of albus white. Cf. Abele.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fresh-water fish (Leuciscus alburnus); the bleak.

ABLIGATE
Ab"li*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. ab + ligatus, p. p. of ligare to tie.]

Defn: To tie up so as to hinder from. [Obs.]

ABLIGURITION
Ab*lig`u*ri"tion, n. Etym: [L. abligurito, fr. abligurire to spend in
luxurious indulgence; ab + ligurire to be lickerish, dainty, fr.
lingere to lick.]

Defn: Prodigal expense for food. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABLINS
A"blins, adv. Etym: [See Able.]

Defn: Perhaps. [Scot.]

ABLOOM
A*bloom", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + bloom.]

Defn: In or into bloom; in a blooming state. Masson.

ABLUDE
Ab*lude", v. t. Etym: [L. abludere; ab + ludere to play.]

Defn: To be unlike; to differ. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ABLUENT
Ab"lu*ent, a. Etym: [L. abluens, p. pr. of. abluere to wash away; ab
+ luere (lavere, lavare). See Lave.]

Defn: Washing away; carrying off impurities; detergent.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: A detergent.

ABLUSH
A*blush", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + blush.]

Defn: Blushing; ruddy.

ABLUTION
Ab*lu`tion, n. Etym: [L. ablutio, fr. abluere: cf. F. ablution. See
Abluent.]

1. The act of washing or cleansing; specifically, the washing of the
body, or some part of it, as a religious rite.

2. The water used in cleansing. "Cast the ablutions in the main."
Pope.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A small quantity of wine and water, which is used to wash the
priest's thumb and index finger after the communion, and which then,
as perhaps containing portions of the consecrated elements, is drunk
by the priest.

ABLUTIONARY
Ab*lu"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to ablution.

ABLUVION
Ab*lu"vi*on, n. Etym: [LL. abluvio. See Abluent.]

Defn: That which is washed off. [R.] Dwight.

ABLY
A"bly, adv.

Defn: In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned,
said.

-ABLY
-a*bly(#).

Defn: A suffix composed of -able and the adverbial suffix -ly; as,
favorably.

ABNEGATE
Ab"ne*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abnegated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abnegating.] Etym: [L. abnegatus,p. p. of abnegare; ab + negare to
deny. See Deny.]

Defn: To deny and reject; to abjure. Sir E. Sandys. Farrar.

ABNEGATION
Ab`ne*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. abnegatio: cf. F. abnégation.]

Defn: a denial; a renunciation.
With abnegation of God, of his honor, and of religion, they may
retain the friendship of the court. Knox.

ABNEGATIVE
Ab"ne*ga*tive, a. Etym: [L. abnegativus.]

Defn: Denying; renouncing; negative. [R.] Clarke.

ABNEGATOR
Ab"ne*ga`tor(#), n. [L.]

Defn: One who abnegates, denies, or rejects anything. [R.]

ABNET
Ab"net, n. Etym: [Heb.]

Defn: The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer.

ABNODATE
Ab"no*date, v. t. Etym: [L. abnodatus, p. p. of abnodare; ab + nodus
knot.]

Defn: To clear (tress) from knots. [R.] Blount.

ABNODATION
Ab`no*da"tion, n.

Defn: The act of cutting away the knots of trees. [R.] Crabb.

ABNORMAL
Ab*nor"mal, a. Etym: [For earlier anormal.F. anormal, LL. anormalus
for anomalus, Gr. abnormis. See Anomalous, Abnormous, Anormal.]

Defn: Not conformed to rule or system; deviating from the type;
anomalous; irregular. "That deviating from the type; anomalous;
irregular. " Froude.

ABNORMALITY
Ab`nor*mal"i*ty, n.; pl. Abnormalities.

1. The state or quality of being abnormal; variation; irregularity.
Darwin.

2. Something abnormal.

ABNORMALLY
Ab*nor"mal*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abnormal manner; irregularly. Darwin.

ABNORMITY
Ab*nor"mi*ty, n.; pl. Abnormities. Etym: [LL. abnormitas. See
Abnormous.]

Defn: Departure from the ordinary type; irregularity; monstrosity.
"An abnormity . . . like a calf born with two heads." Mrs. Whitney.

ABNORMOUS
Ab*nor"mous, a. Etym: [L. abnormis; ab + norma rule. See Normal.]

Defn: Abnormal; irregular. Hallam.
A character of a more abnormous cast than his equally suspected
coadjutor. State Trials.

ABOARD
A*board", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- on, in + board.]

Defn: On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or within
a railway car.

2. Alongside; as, close aboard. Naut.: To fall aboard of, to strike a
ship's side; to fall foul of.
 -- To haul the tacks aboard, to set the courses.
 -- To keep the land aboard, to hug the shore.
 -- To lay (a ship) aboard, to place one's own ship close alongside
of (a ship) for fighting.

ABOARD
A*board", prep.

1. On board of; as, to go aboard a ship.

2. Across; athwart. [Obs.]
Nor iron bands aboard The Pontic Sea by their huge navy cast.
Spenser.

ABODANCE
A*bod"ance, n. Etym: [See Bode.]

Defn: An omen; a portending. [Obs.]

ABODE
A*bode", pret.

Defn: of Abide.

ABODE
A*bode", n. Etym: [OE. abad, abood, fr. abiden to abide. See Abide.
For the change of vowel, cf. abode, imp. of abide.]

1. Act of waiting; delay. [Obs.] Shak.
And with her fled away without abode. Spenser.

2. Stay or continuance in a place; sojourn.
He waxeth at your abode here. Fielding.

3. Place of continuance, or where one dwells; abiding place;
residence; a dwelling; a habitation.
Come, let me lead you to our poor abode. Wordsworth.

ABODE
A*bode", n. Etym: [See Bode, v. t.]

Defn: An omen. [Obs.]
High-thundering Juno's husband stirs my spirit with true abodes.
Chapman.

ABODE
A*bode", v. t.

Defn: To bode; to foreshow. [Obs.] Shak.

ABODE
A*bode", v. i.

Defn: To be ominous. [Obs.] Dryden.

ABODEMENT
A*bode"ment, n.

Defn: A foreboding; an omen. [Obs.] "Abodements must not now affright
us." Shak.

ABODING
A*bod"ing, n.

Defn: A foreboding. [Obs.]

ABOLISH
A*bol"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abolished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abolishing.] Etym: [F. abolir, L. abolere, aboletum; ab + olere to
grow. Cf. Finish.]

1. To do away with wholly; to annul; to make void; -- said of laws,
customs, institutions, governments, etc.; as, to abolish slavery, to
abolish folly.

2. To put an end to, or destroy, as a physical objects; to wipe out.
[Archaic]
And with thy blood abolish so reproachful blot. Spenser.
His quick instinctive hand Caught at the hilt, as to abolish him.
Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- To Abolish, Repeal, Abrogate, Revoke, Annul, Nullify, Cancel.
These words have in common the idea of setting aside by some
overruling act. Abolish applies particularly to things of a permanent
nature, such as institutions, usages, customs, etc.; as, to abolish
monopolies, serfdom, slavery. Repeal describes the act by which the
legislature of a state sets aside a law which it had previously
enacted. Abrogate was originally applied to the repeal of a law by
the Roman people; and hence, when the power of making laws was
usurped by the emperors, the term was applied to their act of setting
aside the laws. Thus it came to express that act by which a sovereign
or an executive government sets aside laws, ordinances, regulations,
treaties, conventions, etc. Revoke denotes the act or recalling some
previous grant which conferred, privilege, etc.; as, to revoke a
decree, to revoke a power of attorney, a promise, etc. Thus, also, we
speak of the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. Annul is used in a
more general sense, denoting simply to make void; as, to annul a
contract, to annul an agreement. Nullify is an old word revived in
this country, and applied to the setting of things aside either by
force or by total disregard; as, to nullify an act of Congress.
Cancel is to strike out or annul, by a deliberate exercise of power,
something which has operative force.

ABOLISHABLE
A*bol"ish*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abolissable.]

Defn: Capable of being abolished.

ABOLISHER
A*bol"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who abolishes.

ABOLISHMENT
A*bol"ish*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abolissement.]

Defn: The act of abolishing; abolition; destruction. Hooker.

ABOLITION
Ab"o*li"tion, n. Etym: [L. abolitio, fr. abolere: cf. F. abolition.
See Abolish.]

Defn: The act of abolishing, or the state of being abolished; an
annulling; abrogation; utter destruction; as, the abolition of
slavery or the slave trade; the abolition of laws, decrees,
ordinances, customs, taxes, debts, etc.

Note: The application of this word to persons is now unusual or
obsolete

ABOLITIONISM
Ab`o*li"tion*ism, n.

Defn: The principles or measures of abolitionists. Wilberforce.

ABOLITIONIST
Ab`o*li"tion*ist, n.

Defn: A person who favors the abolition of any institution,
especially negro slavery.

ABOLITIONIZE
Ab`o*li`tion*ize, v. t.

Defn: To imbue with the principles of abolitionism. [R.] Bartlett.

ABOMA
A*bo"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large South American serpent (Boa aboma).

ABOMASUM; ABOMASUS
Ab`o*ma"sum, Ab`o*ma"sus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. ab + omasum (a Celtic
word.] (Anat.)

Defn: The fourth or digestive stomach of a ruminant, which leads from
the third stomach omasum. See Ruminantia.

ABOMINABLE
A*bom"i*na*ble, a. Etym: [F. abominable. L. abominalis. See
Abominate.]

1. Worthy of, or causing, abhorrence, as a thing of evil omen; odious
in the utmost degree; very hateful; detestable; loathsome; execrable.

2. Excessive; large; -- used as an intensive. [Obs.]

Note: Juliana Berners . . . informs us that in her time [15th c.],
"abomynable syght of monkes" was elegant English for "a large company
of friars." G. P. Marsh.

ABOMINABLENESS
A*bom"i*na*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being abominable; odiousness. Bentley.

ABOMINABLY
A*bom"i*na*bly, adv.

Defn: In an abominable manner; very odiously; detestably.

ABOMINATE
A*bom"i*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abominated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abominating.] Etym: [L. abominatus, p. p. or abominari to deprecate
as ominous, to abhor, to curse; ab + omen a foreboding. See Omen.]

Defn: To turn from as ill-omened; to hate in the highest degree, as
if with religious dread; loathe; as, to abominate all impiety.

Syn.
 -- To hate; abhor; loathe; detest. See Hate.

ABOMINATION
A*bom`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [OE. abominacioun, -cion, F. abominatio.
See Abominate.]

1. The feeling of extreme disgust and hatred; abhorrence;
detestation; loathing; as, he holds tobacco in abomination.

2. That which is abominable; anything hateful, wicked, or shamefully
vile; an object or state that excites disgust and hatred; a hateful
or shameful vice; pollution.
Antony, most large in his abominations. Shak.

3. A cause of pollution or wickedness.

Syn.
 -- Detestation; loathing; abhorrence; disgust; aversion;
loathsomeness; odiousness. Sir W. Scott.

ABOON
A*boon", prep.

Defn: and adv. Above. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
Aboon the pass of Bally-Brough. Sir W. Scott.
The ceiling fair that rose aboon. J. R. Drake.

ABORAL
Ab*o"ral, a. Etym: [L. ab. + E. oral.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Situated opposite to, or away from, the mouth.

ABORD
A*bord", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Manner of approaching or accosting; address. Chesterfield.

ABORD
A*bord", v. t. Etym: [F. aborder, à (L. ad) + bord rim, brim, or side
of a vessel. See Border, Board.]

Defn: To approach; to accost. [Obs.] Digby.

ABORIGINAL
Ab`o*rig"i*nal, a. Etym: [See Aborigines.]

1. First; original; indigenous; primitive; native; as, the aboriginal
tribes of America. "Mantled o'er with aboriginal turf." Wordsworth.

2. Of or pertaining to aborigines; as, a Hindoo of aboriginal blood.

ABORIGINAL
Ab`o*rig"i*nal, n.

1. An original inhabitant of any land; one of the aborigines.

2. An animal or a plant native to the region.
It may well be doubted whether this frog is an aboriginal of these
islands. Darwin.

ABORIGINALITY
Ab`o*rig`i*nal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being aboriginal. Westm. Rev.

ABORIGINALLY
Ab`o*rig"i*nal*ly, adv.

Defn: Primarily.

ABORIGINES
Ab`o*rig"i*nes, n. pl. Etym: [L. Aborigines; ab + origo, especially
the first inhabitants of Latium, those who originally (ab origine)
inhabited Latium or Italy. See Origin.]

1. The earliest known inhabitants of a country; native races.

2. The original fauna and flora of a geographical area

ABORSEMENT
A*borse"ment, n.

Defn: Abortment; abortion. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ABORSIVE
A*bor"sive, a.

Defn: Abortive. [Obs.] Fuller.

ABORT
A*bort", v. i. Etym: [L. abortare, fr. abortus, p. p. of aboriri; ab
+ oriri to rise, to be born. See Orient.]

1. To miscarry; to bring forth young prematurely.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: To become checked in normal development, so as either to remain
rudimentary or shrink away wholly; to become sterile.

ABORT
A*bort", n. Etym: [L. abortus, fr. aboriri.]

1. An untimely birth. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

2. An aborted offspring. [Obs.] Holland.

ABORTED
A*bort"ed, a.

1. Brought forth prematurely.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Rendered abortive or sterile; undeveloped; checked in normal
development at a very early stage; as, spines are aborted branches.
The eyes of the cirripeds are more or less aborted in their mature
state. Owen.

ABORTICIDE
A*bor"ti*cide, n. Etym: [L. abortus + caedere to kill. See Abort.]
(Med.)

Defn: The act of destroying a fetus in the womb; feticide.

ABORTIFACIENT
A*bor`ti*fa"cient, a. Etym: [L. abortus (see Abort, v.) + faciens, p.
pr. of facere to make.]

Defn: Producing miscarriage.
 -- n.

Defn: A drug or an agent that causes premature delivery.

ABORTION
A*bor"tion, n. Etym: [L. abortio, fr. aboriri. See Abort.]

1. The act of giving premature birth; particularly, the expulsion of
the human fetus prematurely, or before it is capable of sustaining
life; miscarriage.

Note: It is sometimes used for the offense of procuring a premature
delivery, but strictly the early delivery is the abortion, "causing
or procuring abortion" is the full name of the offense. Abbott.

2. The immature product of an untimely birth.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: Arrest of development of any organ, so that it remains an
imperfect formation or is absorbed.

4. Any fruit or produce that does not come to maturity, or anything
which in its progress, before it is matured or perfect; a complete
failure; as, his attempt. proved an abortiori.

ABORTIONAL
A*bor"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to abortion; miscarrying; abortive. Carlyle.

ABORTIONIST
A*bor"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who procures abortion or miscarriage.

ABORTIVE
A*bor"tive, a. Etym: [L. abortivus, fr. aboriri. See Abort, v.]

1. Produced by abortion; born prematurely; as, an abortive child.
[R.]

2. Made from the skin of a still-born animal; as, abortive vellum.
[Obs.]

3. Rendering fruitless or ineffectual. [Obs.] "Plunged in that
abortive gulf." Milton.

4. Coming to naught; failing in its effect; miscarrying; fruitless;
unsuccessful; as, an abortive attempt. "An abortive enterprise."
Prescott.

5. (Biol.)

Defn: Imperfectly formed or developed; rudimentary; sterile; as, an
abortive organ, stamen, ovule, etc.

6. (Med.)
(a) Causing abortion; as, abortive medicines. Parr.
(b) Cutting short; as, abortive treatment of typhoid fever.

ABORTIVE
A*bor"tive, n.

1. That which is born or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.
[Obs.] Shak.

2. A fruitless effort or issue. [Obs.]

3. A medicine to which is attributed the property of causing
abortion. Dunglison.

ABORTIVELY
A*bor"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abortive or untimely manner; immaturely; fruitlessly.

ABORTIVENESS
A*bor"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abortive.

ABORTMENT
A*bort"ment, n.

Defn: Abortion. [Obs.]

ABOUGHT
A*bought", imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Aby. [Obs.]

ABOUND
A*bound", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Abounded; p. pr. & vb. n. Abounding.]
Etym: [OE. abounden, F. abonder, fr. L. abundare to overflow, abound;
ab + unda wave. Cf. Undulate.]

1. To be in great plenty; to be very prevalent; to be plentiful.
The wild boar which abounds in some parts of the continent of Europe.
Chambers.
Where sin abounded grace did much more abound. Rom. v. 20.

2. To be copiously supplied; -- followed by in or with. To abound in,
to posses in such abundance as to be characterized by.
 -- To abound with, to be filled with; to possess in great numbers.
Men abounding in natural courage. Macaulay.
A faithful man shall abound with blessings. Prov. xxviii. 20.
It abounds with cabinets of curiosities. Addison.

ABOUT
A*bout", prep. Etym: [OE. aboute, abouten, abuten; AS. abutan,
onbutan; on + butan, which is from be by + utan outward, from ut out.
See But, Out.]

1. Around; all round; on every side of. "Look about you." Shak. "Bind
them about thy neck." Prov. iii. 3.

2. In the immediate neighborhood of; in contiguity or proximity to;
near, as to place; by or on (one's person). "Have you much money
about you" Bulwer.

3. Over or upon different parts of; through or over in various
directions; here and there in; to and fro in; throughout.
Lampoons . . . were handed about the coffeehouses. Macaulay.
Roving still about the world. Milton.

4. Near; not far from; -- determining approximately time, size,
quantity. "To-morrow, about this time." Exod. ix. 18. "About my
stature." Shak.
He went out about the third hour. Matt. xx. 3.

Note: This use passes into the adverbial sense.

5. In concern with; engaged in; intent on.
I must be about my Father's business. Luke ii. 49.

6. Before a verbal noun or an infinitive:

Defn: On the point or verge of; going; in act of.
Paul was now aboutto open his mouth. Acts xviii. 14.

7. Concerning; with regard to; on account of; touching. "To treat
about thy ransom." Milton.
She must have her way about Sarah. Trollope.

ABOUT
A*bout", adv.

1. On all sides; around.
'Tis time to look about. Shak.

2. In circuit; circularly; by a circuitous way; around the outside;
as, a mile about, and a third of a mile across.

3. Here and there; around; in one place and another.
Wandering about from house to house. 1 Tim. v. 13.

4. Nearly; approximately; with close correspondence, in quality,
manner, degree, etc.; as, about as cold; about as high; -- also of
quantity, number, time. "There fell . . . about three thousand men."
Exod. xxii. 28.

5. To a reserved position; half round; in the opposite direction; on
the opposite tack; as, to face about; to turn one's self about. To
bring about, to cause to take place; to accomplish.
 -- To come about, to occur; to take place. See under Come.
 -- To go about, To set about, to undertake; to arrange; to prepare.
"Shall we set about some revels Shak.
 -- Round about, in every direction around.

ABOUT-SLEDGE
A*bout"-sledge", n.

Defn: The largest hammer used by smiths. Weale.

ABOVE
A*bove", prep. Etym: [OE. above, aboven, abuffe, AS. abufon; an (or
on) on + be by + ufan upward; cf. Goth. uf under. *199. See Over.]

1. In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper
surface; over; -- opposed to below or beneath.
Fowl that may fly above the earth. Gen. i. 20.

2. Figuratively, higher than; superior to in any respect; surpassing;
beyond; higher in measure or degree than; as, things above
comprehension; above mean actions; conduct above reproach. "Thy worth
. . . is actions above my gifts." Marlowe.
I saw in the way a light from heaven above the brightness of the sun.
Acts xxxvi. 13.

3. Surpassing in number or quantity; more than; as, above a hundred.
(Passing into the adverbial sense. See Above, adv., 4.) above all,
before every other consideration; chiefly; in preference to other
things. Over and above, prep. or adv., besides; in addition to.

ABOVE
A*bove", adv.

1. In a higher place; overhead; into or from heaven; as, the clouds
above.

2. Earlier in order; higher in the same page; hence, in a foregoing
page. "That was said above." Dryden.

3. Higher in rank or power; as, he appealed to the court above.

4. More than; as, above five hundred were present.

Note: Above is often used elliptically as an adjective by omitting
the word mentioned, quoted, or the like; as, the above observations,
the above reference, the above articles.
 -- Above is also used substantively. "The waters that come down from
above." Josh. iii. 13. It is also used as the first part of a
compound in the sense of before, previously; as, above-cited, above-
described, above-mentioned, above-named, abovesaid, abovespecified,
above-written, above-given.

ABOVEBOARD
A*bove"board`, adv.

Defn: Above the board or table. Hence: in open sight; without trick,
concealment, or deception. "Fair and aboveboard." Burke.

Note: This expression is said by Johnson to have been borrowed from
gamesters, who, when they change their cards, put their hands under
the table.

ABOVE-CITED
A*bove"-cit`ed, a.

Defn: Cited before, in the preceding part of a book or writing.

ABOVEDECK
A*bove"deck`, a.

Defn: On deck; and hence, like aboveboard, without artifice. Smart.

ABOVE-MENTIONED; ABOVE-NAMED
A*bove"-men`tioned, A*bove"-named`(#), a.

Defn: Mentioned or named before; aforesaid.

ABOVESAID
A*bove"said`, a.

Defn: Mentioned or recited before.

ABOX
A*box", adv. & a. (Naut.)

Defn: Braced aback.

ABRA
A"bra, n. [Sp., a bay, valley, fissure.]

Defn: A narrow pass or defile; a break in a mesa; the mouth of a
cañon. [Southwestern U. S.]

ABRACADABRA
Ab`ra*ca*dab"ra, n. Etym: [L. Of unknown origin.]

Defn: A mystical word or collocation of letters written as in the
figure. Worn on an amulet it was supposed to ward off fever. At
present the word is used chiefly in jest to denote something without
meaning; jargon.

ABRADANT
Ab*ra"dant, n.

Defn: A material used for grinding, as emery, sand, powdered glass,
etc.

ABRADE
Ab*rade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abraded; p. pr. & vb. n. Abrading.]
Etym: [L. abradere, abrasum, to scrape off; ab + radere to scrape.
See Rase, Raze.]

Defn: To rub or wear off; to waste or wear away by friction; as, to
abrade rocks. Lyell.

ABRADE
A*brade", v. t.

Defn: Same as Abraid. [Obs.]

ABRAHAMIC
A`bra*ham"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Abraham, the patriarch; as, the Abrachamic
covenant.

ABRAHAMITIC; ABRAHAMITICAL
A`bra*ham*it"ic, A`bra*ham*it*ic*al(#), a.

Defn: Relating to the patriarch Abraham.

ABRAHAM-MAN; ABRAM-MAN
A"bra*ham-man`(#) or A"bram-man`(#), n. Etym: [Possibly in allusion
to the parable of the beggar Lazarus in Luke xvi. Murray (New Eng.
Dict. ).]

Defn: One of a set of vagabonds who formerly roamed through England,
feigning lunacy for the sake of obtaining alms. Nares. To sham
Abraham, to feign sickness. Goldsmith.

ABRAID
A*braid", v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. abraiden, to awake, draw (a sword),
AS. abredgan to shake, draw; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig.
meaning out) + bregdan to shake, throw. See Braid.]

Defn: To awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

ABRANCHIAL
A*bran"chi*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Abranchiate.

ABRANCHIATA
A*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of annelids, so called because the species composing it
have no special organs of respiration.

ABRANCHIATE
A*bran"chi*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without gills.

ABRASE
Ab*rase", a. Etym: [L. abrasus, p. p. of abradere. See Abrade.]

Defn: Rubbed smooth. [Obs.] "An abrase table." B. Jonson.

ABRASION
Ab*ra"sion, n. Etym: [L. abrasio, fr. abradere. See Abrade.]

1. The act of abrading, wearing, or rubbing off; the wearing away by
friction; as, the abrasion of coins.

2. The substance rubbed off. Berkeley.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A superficial excoriation, with loss of substance under the
form of small shreds. Dunglison.

ABRASIVE
Ab*ra"sive, a.

Defn: Producing abrasion. Ure.

ABRAUM; ABRAUM SALTS
A*braum" or A*braum" salts, n. Etym: [Ger., fr. abräumen to remove.]

Defn: A red ocher used to darken mahogany and for making chloride of
potassium.

ABRAXAS
A*brax"as, n. Etym: [A name adopted by the Egyptian Gnostic
Basilides, containing the Greek letters , , , , , , , which, as
numerals, amounted to 365. It was used to signify the supreme deity
as ruler of the 365 heavens of his system.]

Defn: A mystical word used as a charm and engraved on gems among the
ancients; also, a gem stone thus engraved.

ABRAY
A*bray", v. Etym: [A false form from the preterit abraid, abrayde.]

Defn: See Abraid. [Obs.] Spenser.

ABREACTION
Ab`re*ac"tion, n. [Pref. ab-+ reaction, after G. Abreagirung.]
(Psychotherapy)

Defn: See Catharsis, below.

ABREAST
A*breast", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + breast.]

1. Side by side, with breasts in a line; as, "Two men could hardly
walk abreast." Macaulay.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Side by side; also, opposite; over against; on a line with the
vessel's beam; -- with of.

3. Up to a certain level or line; equally advanced; as, to keep
abreast of [or with] the present state of science.

4. At the same time; simultaneously. [Obs.]
Abreast therewith began a convocation. Fuller.

ABREGGE
A*breg"ge, v. t.

Defn: See Abridge. [Obs.]

ABRENOUNCE
Ab`re*nounce", v. t. Etym: [L. abrenuntiare; ab + renuntiare. See
Renounce.]

Defn: To renounce. [Obs.] "They abrenounce and cast them off."
Latimer.

ABRENUNCIATION
Ab`re*nun`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. abrenuntiatio. See Abrenounce.]

Defn: Absolute renunciation or repudiation. [Obs.]
An abrenunciation of that truth which he so long had professed, and
still believed. Fuller.

ABREPTION
Ab*rep"tion, n. Etym: [L. abreptus, p. p. of abripere to snatch away;
ab + rapere to snatch.]

Defn: A snatching away. [Obs.]

ABREUVOIR
A`breu`voir", n. Etym: [F., a watering place.] (Masonry)

Defn: The joint or interstice between stones, to be filled with
mortar. Gwilt.

ABRICOCK
A"bri*cock, n.

Defn: See Apricot. [Obs.]

ABRIDGE
A*bridge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abridged; p. pr. & vb. n. Abridging.]
Etym: [OE. abregen, OF. abregier, F. abréger, fr. L. abbreviare; ad +
brevis short. See Brief and cf. Abbreviate.]

1. To make shorter; to shorten in duration; to lessen; to diminish;
to curtail; as, to abridge labor; to abridge power or rights. "The
bridegroom . . . abridged his visit." Smollett.
She retired herself to Sebaste, and abridged her train from state to
necessity. Fuller.

2. To shorten or contract by using fewer words, yet retaining the
sense; to epitomize; to condense; as, to abridge a history or
dictionary.

3. To deprive; to cut off; -- followed by of, and formerly by from;
as, to abridge one of his rights.

ABRIDGER
A*bridg"er, n.

Defn: One who abridges.

ABRIDGMENT
A*bridg"ment, n. Etym: [OE. abregement. See Abridge.]

1. The act abridging, or the state of being abridged; diminution;
lessening; reduction or deprivation; as, an abridgment of pleasures
or of expenses.

2. An epitome or compend, as of a book; a shortened or abridged form;
an abbreviation.
Ancient coins as abridgments of history. Addison.

3. That which abridges or cuts short; hence, an entertainment that
makes the time pass quickly. [Obs.]
What abridgment have you for this evening What mask What music Shak.

Syn.
 -- Abridgment, Compendium, Epitome, Abstract, Synopsis. An
abridgment is made by omitting the less important parts of some
larger work; as, an abridgment of a dictionary. A compendium is a
brief exhibition of a subject, or science, for common use; as, a
compendium of American literature. An epitome corresponds to a
compendium, and gives briefly the most material points of a subject;
as, an epitome of history. An abstract is a brief statement of a
thing in its main points. A synopsis is a bird's-eye view of a
subject, or work, in its several parts.

ABROACH
A*broach", v. t. Etym: [OE. abrochen, OF. abrochier. See Broach.]

Defn: To set abroach; to let out, as liquor; to broach; to tap.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

ABROACH
A*broach", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + broach.]

1. Broached; in a condition for letting out or yielding liquor, as a
cask which is tapped.
Hogsheads of ale were set abroach. Sir W. Scott.

2. Hence: In a state to be diffused or propagated; afoot; astir.
"Mischiefs that I set abroach." Shak.

ABROAD
A*broad", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + broad.]

1. At large; widely; broadly; over a wide space; as, a tree spreads
its branches abroad.
The fox roams far abroad. Prior.

2. Without a certain confine; outside the house; away from one's
abode; as, to walk abroad.
I went to St. James', where another was preaching in the court
abroad. Evelyn.

3. Beyond the bounds of a country; in foreign countries; as, we have
broils at home and enemies abroad. "Another prince . . . was living
abroad." Macaulay.

4. Before the public at large; throughout society or the world; here
and there; widely.
He went out, and began to publish it much, and to blaze abroad the
matter. Mark i. 45.
To be abroad. (a) To be wide of the mark; to be at fault; as, you are
all abroad in your guess. (b) To be at a loss or nonplused.

ABROGABLE
Ab"ro*ga*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being abrogated.

ABROGATE
Ab"ro*gate, a. Etym: [L. abrogatus, p. p.]

Defn: Abrogated; abolished. [Obs.] Latimer.

ABROGATE
Ab"ro*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abrogated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abrogating.] Etym: [L. abrogatus, p. p. of abrogare; ab + rogare to
ask, require, propose. See Rogation.]

1. To annul by an authoritative act; to abolish by the authority of
the maker or his successor; to repeal; -- applied to the repeal of
laws, decrees, ordinances, the abolition of customs, etc.
Let us see whether the New Testament abrogates what we so frequently
see in the Old. South.
Whose laws, like those of the Medes and Persian, they can not alter
or abrogate. Burke.

2. To put an end to; to do away with. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To abolish; annul; do away; set aside; revoke; repeal; cancel;
annihilate. See Abolish.

ABROGATION
Ab`ro*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. abrogatio, fr. abrogare: cf. F.
abrogation.]

Defn: The act of abrogating; repeal by authority. Hume.

ABROGATIVE
Ab"ro*ga*tive, a.

Defn: Tending or designed to abrogate; as, an abrogative law.

ABROGATOR
Ab"ro*ga`tor, n.

Defn: One who repeals by authority.

ABROOD
A*brood", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + brood.]

Defn: In the act of brooding. [Obs.] Abp. Sancroft.

ABROOK
A*brook", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + brook, v.]

Defn: To brook; to endure. [Obs.] Shak.

ABRUPT
Ab*rupt", a. Etym: [L. abruptus, p. p. of abrumpere to break off; ab
+ rumpere to break. See Rupture.]

1. Broken off; very steep, or craggy, as rocks, precipices, banks;
precipitous; steep; as, abrupt places. "Tumbling through ricks
abrupt," Thomson.

2. Without notice to prepare the mind for the event; sudden; hasty;
unceremonious. "The cause of your abrupt departure." Shak.

3. Having sudden transitions from one subject to another;
unconnected.
The abrupt style, which hath many breaches. B. Jonson.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: Suddenly terminating, as if cut off. Gray.

Syn.
 -- Sudden; unexpected; hasty; rough; curt; unceremonious; rugged;
blunt; disconnected; broken.

ABRUPT
Ab*rupt", n. Etym: [L. abruptum.]

Defn: An abrupt place. [Poetic]
"Over the vast abrupt." Milton.

ABRUPT
Ab*rupt", v. t.

Defn: To tear off or asunder. [Obs.] "Till death abrupts them." Sir
T. Browne.

ABRUPTION
Ab*rup"tion, n. Etym: [L. abruptio, fr. abrumpere: cf. F. abruption.]

Defn: A sudden breaking off; a violent separation of bodies.
Woodward.

ABRUPTLY
Ab*rupt"ly, adv.

1. In an abrupt manner; without giving notice, or without the usual
forms; suddenly.

2. Precipitously. Abruptly pinnate (Bot.), pinnate without an odd
leaflet, or other appendage, at the end. Gray.

ABRUPTNESS
Ab*rupt"ness, n.

1. The state of being abrupt or broken; craggedness; ruggedness;
steepness.

2. Suddenness; unceremonious haste or vehemence; as, abruptness of
style or manner.

ABSCESS
Ab"scess, n.; pl. Abscesses. Etym: [L. abscessus a going away,
gathering of humors, abscess, fr. abscessus, p. p. of absedere to go
away; ab, abs + cedere to go off, retire. See Cede.] (Med.)

Defn: A collection of pus or purulent matter in any tissue or organ
of the body, the result of a morbid process. Cold abscess, an abscess
of slow formation, unattended with the pain and heat characteristic
of ordinary abscesses, and lasting for years without exhibiting any
tendency towards healing; a chronic abscess.

ABSCESSION
Ab*sces"sion, n. Etym: [L. abscessio a separation; fr. absedere. See
Abscess.]

Defn: A separating; removal; also, an abscess. [Obs.] Gauden.
Barrough.

ABSCIND
Ab*scind", v. t. Etym: [L. absindere; ab + scindere to rend, cut. See
Schism.]

Defn: To cut off. [R.] "Two syllables . . . abscinded from the rest."
Johnson.

ABSCISION
Ab*sci"sion, n. Etym: [L. abscisio.]

Defn: See Abscission.

ABSCISS
Ab"sciss, n.; pl. Abscisses.

Defn: See Abscissa.

ABSCISSA
Ab*scis"sa, n.; E. pl. Abscissas, L. pl. Abscissæ. Etym: [L., fem. of
abscissus, p. p. of absindere to cut of. See Abscind.] (Geom.)

Defn: One of the elements of reference by which a point, as of a
curve, is referred to a system of fixed rectilineal coördinate axes.

Note: When referred to two intersecting axes, one of them called the
axis of abscissas, or of X, and the other the axis of ordinates, or
of Y, the abscissa of the point is the distance cut off from the axis
of X by a line drawn through it and parallel to the axis of Y. When a
point in space is referred to three axes having a common
intersection, the abscissa may be the distance measured parallel to
either of them, from the point to the plane of the other two axes.
Abscissas and ordinates taken together are called coördinates.
 -- OX or PY is the abscissa of the point P of the curve, OY or PX
its ordinate, the intersecting lines OX and OY being the axes of
abscissas and ordinates respectively, and the point O their origin.

ABSCISSION
Ab*scis"sion, n. Etym: [L. abscissio. See Abscind.]

1. The act or process of cutting off. "Not to be cured without the
abscission of a member." Jer. Taylor.

2. The state of being cut off. Sir T. Browne.

3. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of speech employed when a speaker having begun to say
a thing stops abruptly: thus, "He is a man of so much honor and
candor, and of such generosity -- but I need say no more."

ABSCOND
Ab*scond", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Absconded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Absconding.] Etym: [L. abscondere to hide; ab, abs + condere to lay
up; con + dare (only in comp.) to put. Cf. Do.]

1. To hide, withdraw, or be concealed.
The marmot absconds all winter. Ray.

2. To depart clandestinely; to steal off and secrete one's self; --
used especially of persons who withdraw to avoid a legal process; as,
an absconding debtor.
That very homesickness which, in regular armies, drives so many
recruits to abscond. Macaulay.

ABSCOND
Ab*scond", v. t.

Defn: To hide; to conceal. [Obs.] Bentley.

ABSCONDENCE
Ab*scond"ence, n.

Defn: Fugitive concealment; secret retirement; hiding. [R.] Phillips.

ABSCONDER
Ab*scond"er, n.

Defn: One who absconds.

ABSENCE
Ab"sence, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. absentia. See Absent.]

1. A state of being absent or withdrawn from a place or from
companionship; -- opposed to presence.
Not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Phil.
ii. 12.

2. Want; destitution; withdrawal. "In the absence of conventional
law." Kent.

3. Inattention to things present; abstraction (of mind); as, absence
of mind. "Reflecting on the little absences and distractions of
mankind." Addison.
To conquer that abstraction which is called absence. Landor.

ABSENT
Ab"sent, a. Etym: [F., fr. absens, absentis, p. pr. of abesse to be
away from; ab + esse to be. Cf. Sooth.]

1. Being away from a place; withdrawn from a place; not present.
"Expecting absent friends." Shak.

2. Not existing; lacking; as, the part was rudimental or absent.

3. Inattentive to what is passing; absent-minded; preoccupied; as, an
absent air.
What is commonly called an absent man is commonly either a very weak
or a very affected man. Chesterfield.

Syn.
 -- Absent, Abstracted. These words both imply a want of attention to
surrounding objects. We speak of a man as absent when his thoughts
wander unconsciously from present scenes or topics of discourse; we
speak of him as abstracted when his mind (usually for a brief period)
is drawn off from present things by some weighty matter for
reflection. Absence of mind is usually the result of loose habits of
thought; abstraction commonly arises either from engrossing interests
and cares, or from unfortunate habits of association.

ABSENT
Ab*sent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Absented; p. pr. & vb. n. Absenting.]
Etym: [Cf. F. absenter.]

1. To take or withdraw (one's self) to such a distance as to prevent
intercourse; -- used with the reflexive pronoun.
If after due summons any member absents himself, he is to be fined.
Addison.

2. To withhold from being present. [Obs.] "Go; for thy stay, not
free, absents thee more." Milton.

ABSENTANEOUS
Ab`sen*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [LL. absentaneus. See absent]

Defn: Pertaining to absence. [Obs.]

ABSENTATION
Ab`sen*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of absenting one's self. Sir W. Hamilton.

ABSENTEE
Ab`sen*tee", n.

Defn: One who absents himself from his country, office, post, or
duty; especially, a landholder who lives in another country or
district than that where his estate is situated; as, an Irish
absentee. Macaulay.

ABSENTEEISM
Ab`sen*tee"ism, n.

Defn: The state or practice of an absentee; esp. the practice of
absenting one's self from the country or district where one's estate
is situated.

ABSENTER
Ab*sent"er, n.

Defn: One who absents one's self.

ABSENTLY
Ab"sent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an absent or abstracted manner.

ABSENTMENT
Ab*sent"ment, n.

Defn: The state of being absent; withdrawal. [R.] Barrow.

ABSENT-MINDED
Ab`sent-mind"ed(#), a.

Defn: Absent in mind; abstracted; preoccupied.
 -- Ab`sent-mind"ed*ness, n.
 -- Ab`sent-mind"ed*ly, adv.

ABSENTNESS
Ab"sent*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being absent-minded. H. Miller.

ABSEY-BOOK
Ab"sey-book`(#), n.

Defn: An A-B-C book; a primer. [Obs.] Shak.

ABSINTHATE
Ab"sin"thate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A combination of absinthic acid with a base or positive
radical.

ABSINTHE; ABSINTH
Ab"sinthe`, Ab"sinth`, n. Etym: [F. absinthe. See Absinthium.]

1. The plant absinthium or common wormwood.

2. A strong spirituous liqueur made from wormwood and brandy or
alcohol.

ABSINTHIAL
Ab*sin"thi*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to wormwood; absinthian.

ABSINTHIAN
Ab*sin"thi*an, n.

Defn: Of the nature of wormwood. "Absinthian bitterness." T.
Randolph.

ABSINTHIATE
Ab"sin"thi*ate, v. t. Etym: [From L. absinthium: cf. L. absinthiatus,
a.]

Defn: To impregnate with wormwood.

ABSINTHIATED
Ab*sin"thi*a`ted, a.

Defn: Impregnated with wormwood; as, absinthiated wine.

ABSINTHIC
Ab*sin"thic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Relating to the common wormwood or to an acid obtained from it.

ABSINTHIN
Ab*sin"thin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The bitter principle of wormwood (Artemisia absinthium). Watts.

ABSINTHISM
Ab"sin*thism, n.

Defn: The condition of being poisoned by the excessive use of
absinth.

ABSINTHIUM
Ab*sin"thi*um, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The common wormwood (Artemisia absinthium), an intensely bitter
plant, used as a tonic and for making the oil of wormwood.

ABSIS
Ab"sis, n.

Defn: See Apsis.

ABSIST
Ab*sist", v. i. Etym: [L. absistere, p. pr. absistens; ab + sistere
to stand, causal of stare.]

Defn: To stand apart from; top leave off; to desist. [Obs.] Raleigh.

ABSISTENCE
Ab*sist"ence, n.

Defn: A standing aloof. [Obs.]

ABSOLUTE
Ab"so*lute, a. Etym: [L. absolutus, p. p. of absolvere: cf. F.
absolu. See Absolve.]

1. Loosed from any limitation or condition; uncontrolled;
unrestricted; unconditional; as, absolute authority, monarchy,
sovereignty, an absolute promise or command; absolute power; an
absolute monarch.

2. Complete in itself; perfect; consummate; faultless; as, absolute
perfection; absolute beauty.
So absolute she seems, And in herself complete. Milton.

3. Viewed apart from modifying influences or without comparison with
other objects; actual; real; -- opposed to relative and comparative;
as, absolute motion; absolute time or space.

Note: Absolute rights and duties are such as pertain to man in a
state of nature as contradistinguished from relative rights and
duties, or such as pertain to him in his social relations.

4. Loosed from, or unconnected by, dependence on any other being;
self-existent; self-sufficing.

Note: In this sense God is called the Absolute by the Theist. The
term is also applied by the Pantheist to the universe, or the total
of all existence, as only capable of relations in its parts to each
other and to the whole, and as dependent for its existence and its
phenomena on its mutually depending forces and their laws.

5. Capable of being thought or conceived by itself alone;
unconditioned; non-relative.

Note: It is in dispute among philosopher whether the term, in this
sense, is not applied to a mere logical fiction or abstraction, or
whether the absolute, as thus defined, can be known, as a reality, by
the human intellect.
To Cusa we can indeed articulately trace, word and thing, the recent
philosophy of the absolute. Sir W. Hamilton.

6. Positive; clear; certain; not doubtful. [R.]
I am absolute 't was very Cloten. Shak.

7. Authoritative; peremptory. [R.]
The peddler stopped, and tapped her on the head, With absolute
forefinger, brown and ringed. Mrs. Browning.

8. (Chem.)

Defn: Pure; unmixed; as, absolute alcohol.

9. (Gram.)

Defn: Not immediately dependent on the other parts of the sentence in
government; as, the case absolute. See Ablative absolute, under
Ablative. Absolute curvature (Geom.), that curvature of a curve of
double curvature, which is measured in the osculating plane of the
curve.
 -- Absolute equation (Astron.), the sum of the optic and eccentric
equations.
 -- Absolute space (Physics), space considered without relation to
material limits or objects.
 -- Absolute terms. (Alg.), such as are known, or which do not
contain the unknown quantity. Davies & Peck.
 -- Absolute temperature (Physics), the temperature as measured on a
scale determined by certain general thermo-dynamic principles, and
reckoned from the absolute zero.
 -- Absolute zero (Physics), the be ginning, or zero point, in the
scale of absolute temperature. It is equivalent to -273º centigrade
or -459.4º Fahrenheit.

Syn.
 -- Positive; peremptory; certain; unconditional; unlimited;
unrestricted; unqualified; arbitrary; despotic; autocratic.

ABSOLUTE
Ab"so*lute, n. (Geom.)

Defn: In a plane, the two imaginary circular points at infinity; in
space of three dimensions, the imaginary circle at infinity.

ABSOLUTELY
Ab"so*lute*ly, adv.

Defn: In an absolute, independent, or unconditional manner; wholly;
positively.

ABSOLUTENESS
Ab"so*lute*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being absolute; independence of everything
extraneous; unlimitedness; absolute power; independent reality;
positiveness.

ABSOLUTION
Ab`so*lu"tion, n. Etym: [F. absolution, L. absolutio, fr. absolvere
to absolve. See Absolve.]

1. An absolving, or setting free from guilt, sin, or penalty;
forgiveness of an offense. "Government . . . granting absolution to
the nation." Froude.

2. (Civil Law)

Defn: An acquittal, or sentence of a judge declaring and accused
person innocent. [Obs.]

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The exercise of priestly jurisdiction in the sacrament of
penance, by which Catholics believe the sins of the truly penitent
are forgiven.

Note: In the English and other Protestant churches, this act regarded
as simply declaratory, not as imparting forgiveness.

4. (Eccl.)

Defn: An absolving from ecclesiastical penalties, -- for example,
excommunication. P. Cyc.

5. The form of words by which a penitent is absolved. Shipley.

6. Delivery, in speech. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Absolution day (R. C. Ch.),
Tuesday before Easter.

ABSOLUTISM
Ab"so*lu`tism, n.

1. The state of being absolute; the system or doctrine of the
absolute; the principles or practice of absolute or arbitrary
government; despotism.
The element of absolutism and prelacy was controlling. Palfrey.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: Doctrine of absolute decrees. Ash.

ABSOLUTIST
Ab"so*lu`tist, n.

1. One who is in favor of an absolute or autocratic government.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: One who believes that it is possible to realize a cognition or
concept of the absolute. Sir. W. Hamilton.

ABSOLUTIST
Ab"so*lu`tist, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to absolutism; arbitrary; despotic; as,
absolutist principles.

ABSOLUTISTIC
Ab`so*lu*tis"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to absolutism; absolutist.

ABSOLUTORY
Ab*sol"u*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. absolutorius, fr. absolvere to absolve.]

Defn: Serving to absolve; absolving. "An absolutory sentence."
Ayliffe.

ABSOLVABLE
Ab*solv"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be absolved.

ABSOLVATORY
Ab*solv"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Conferring absolution; absolutory.

ABSOLVE
Ab*solve" (#; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Absolved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Absolving.] Etym: [L. absolvere to set free, to absolve; ab + solvere
to loose. See Assoil, Solve.]

1. To set free, or release, as from some obligation, debt, or
responsibility, or from the consequences of guilt or such ties as it
would be sin or guilt to violate; to pronounce free; as, to absolve a
subject from his allegiance; to absolve an offender, which amounts to
an acquittal and remission of his punishment.
Halifax was absolved by a majority of fourteen. Macaulay.

2. To free from a penalty; to pardon; to remit (a sin); -- said of
the sin or guilt.
In his name I absolve your perjury. Gibbon.

3. To finish; to accomplish. [Obs.]
The work begun, how soon absolved. Milton.

4. To resolve or explain. [Obs.] "We shall not absolve the doubt."
Sir T. Browne.

Syn.
 -- To Absolve, Exonerate, Acquit. We speak of a man as absolved from
something that binds his conscience, or involves the charge of
wrongdoing; as, to absolve from allegiance or from the obligation of
an oath, or a promise. We speak of a person as exonerated, when he is
released from some burden which had rested upon him; as, to exonerate
from suspicion, to exonerate from blame or odium. It implies a purely
moral acquittal. We speak of a person as acquitted, when a decision
has been made in his favor with reference to a specific charge,
either by a jury or by disinterested persons; as, he was acquitted of
all participation in the crime.

ABSOLVENT
Ab*solv"ent, a. Etym: [L. absolvens, p. pr. of absolvere.]

Defn: Absolving. [R.] Carlyle.

ABSOLVENT
Ab*solv"ent, n.

Defn: An absolver. [R.] Hobbes.

ABSOLVER
Ab*solv"er, n.

Defn: One who absolves. Macaulay.

ABSONANT
Ab"so*nant, a. Etym: [L. ab + sonans, p. pr. of sonare to sound.]

Defn: Discordant; contrary; -- opposed to consonant. "Absonant to
nature." Quarles.

ABSONOUS
Ab"so*nous, a. Etym: [L. absonus; ab + sonus sound.]

Defn: Discordant; inharmonious; incongruous. [Obs.] "Absonous to our
reason." Glanvill.

ABSORB
Ab*sorb", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Absorbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Absorbing.]
Etym: [L. absorbere; ab + sorbere to suck in, akin to Gr. absorber.]

1. To swallow up; to engulf; to overwhelm; to cause to disappear as
if by swallowing up; to use up; to include. "Dark oblivion soon
absorbs them all." Cowper.
The large cities absorb the wealth and fashion. W. Irving.

2. To suck up; to drink in; to imbibe; as a sponge or as the lacteals
of the body. Bacon.

3. To engross or engage wholly; to occupy fully; as, absorbed in
study or the pursuit of wealth.

4. To take up by cohesive, chemical, or any molecular action, as when
charcoal absorbs gases. So heat, light, and electricity are absorbed
or taken up in the substances into which they pass. Nichol. p. 8

Syn.
 -- To Absorb, Engross, Swallow up, Engulf. These words agree in one
general idea, that of completely taking up. They are chiefly used in
a figurative sense and may be distinguished by a reference to their
etymology. We speak of a person as absorbed (lit., drawn in,
swallowed up) in study or some other employment of the highest
interest. We speak of a person as ebgrossed (lit., seized upon in the
gross, or wholly) by something which occupies his whole time and
thoughts, as the acquisition of wealth, or the attainment of honor.
We speak of a person (under a stronger image) as swallowed up and
lost in that which completely occupies his thoughts and feelings, as
in grief at the death of a friend, or in the multiplied cares of
life. We speak of a person as engulfed in that which (like a gulf)
takes in all his hopes and interests; as, engulfed in misery, ruin,
etc.
That grave question which had begun to absorb the Christian mind --
the marriage of the clergy. Milman.
Too long hath love engrossed Britannia's stage, And sunk to softness
all our tragic rage. Tickell.
Should not the sad occasion swallow up My other cares Addison.
And in destruction's river Engulf and swallow those. Sir P. Sidney.

ABSORBABILITY
Ab*sorb`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being absorbable. Graham (Chemistry).

ABSORBABLE
Ab*sorb"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. absorbable.]

Defn: Capable of being absorbed or swallowed up. Kerr.

ABSORBEDLY
Ab*sorb"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner as if wholly engrossed or engaged.

ABSORBENCY
Ab*sorb"en*cy, n.

Defn: Absorptiveness.

ABSORBENT
Ab*sorb"ent, a. Etym: [L. absorbens, p. pr. of absorbere.]

Defn: Absorbing; swallowing; absorptive. Absorbent ground (Paint.), a
ground prepared for a picture, chiefly with distemper, or water
colors, by which the oil is absorbed, and a brilliancy is imparted to
the colors.

ABSORBENT
Ab*sorb"ent, n.

1. Anything which absorbs.
The ocean, itself a bad absorbent of heat. Darwin.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Any substance which absorbs and neutralizes acid fluid in the
stomach and bowels, as magnesia, chalk, etc.; also a substance e. g.,
iodine) which acts on the absorbent vessels so as to reduce enlarged
and indurated parts.

3. pl. (Physiol.)

Defn: The vessels by which the processes of absorption are carried
on, as the lymphatics in animals, the extremities of the roots in
plants.

ABSORBER
Ab*sorb"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, absorbs.

ABSORBING
Ab*sorb"ing, a.

Defn: Swallowing, engrossing; as, an absorbing pursuit.
 -- Ab*sorb"ing, adv.

ABSORBITION
Ab`sor*bi"tion, n.

Defn: Absorption. [Obs.]

ABSORPT
Ab*sorpt`, a. Etym: [L. absorptus, p. p.]

Defn: Absorbed. [Arcahic.] "Absorpt in care." Pope.

ABSORPTION
Ab*sorp"tion, n. Etym: [L. absorptio, fr. absorbere. See Absorb.]

1. The act or process of absorbing or sucking in anything, or of
being absorbed and made to disappear; as, the absorption of bodies in
a whirlpool, the absorption of a smaller tribe into a larger.

2. (Chem. & Physics)

Defn: An imbibing or reception by molecular or chemical action; as,
the absorption of light, heat, electricity, etc.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: In living organisms, the process by which the materials of
growth and nutrition are absorbed and conveyed to the tissues and
organs.

4. Entire engrossment or occupation of the mind; as, absorption in
some employment.

ABSORPTIVE
Ab*sorp"tive, a.

Defn: Having power, capacity, or tendency to absorb or imbibe. E.
Darwin.

ABSORPTIVENESS
Ab*sorp"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being absorptive; absorptive power.

ABSORPTIVITY
Ab`sorp*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: Absorptiveness.

ABSQUATULATE
Ab*squat"u*late, v. i.

Defn: To take one's self off; to decamp. [A jocular word. U. S.]

ABSQUE HOC
Abs"que hoc

Defn: . Etym: [L., without this.] (Law) The technical words of denial
used in traversing what has been alleged, and is repeated.

ABSTAIN
Ab*stain", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Abstained; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abstaining.] Etym: [OE. absteynen, abstenen, OF. astenir, abstenir,
F. abstenir, fr. L. abstinere, abstentum, v. t. & v. i., to keep
from; ab, abs + tenere to hold. See Tenable.]

Defn: To hold one's self aloof; to forbear or refrain voluntarily,
and especially from an indulgence of the passions or appetites; --
with from.
Not a few abstained from voting. Macaulay.
Who abstains from meat that is not gaunt Shak.

Syn.
 -- To refrain; forbear; withhold; deny one's self; give up;
relinquish.

ABSTAIN
Ab*stain", v. t.

Defn: To hinder; to withhold.
Whether he abstain men from marrying. Milton.

ABSTAINER
Ab*stain"er, n.

Defn: One who abstains; esp., one who abstains from the use of
intoxicating liquors.

ABSTEMIOUS
Ab*ste"mi*ous, a. Etym: [L. abstemius; ab, abs + root of temetum
intoxicating drink.]

1. Abstaining from wine. [Orig. Latin sense.]
Under his special eye Abstemious I grew up and thrived amain. Milton.

2. Sparing in diet; refraining from a free use of food and strong
drinks; temperate; abstinent; sparing in the indulgence of the
appetite or passions.
Instances of longevity are chiefly among the abstemious. Arbuthnot.

3. Sparingly used; used with temperance or moderation; as, an
abstemious diet. Gibbon.

4. Marked by, or spent in, abstinence; as, an abstemious life. "One
abstemious day." Pope.

5. Promotive of abstemiousness. [R.]
Such is the virtue of the abstemious well. Dryden.

ABSTEMIOUSNESS
Ab*ste"mi*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstemious, temperate, or sparing in the
use of food and strong drinks. It expresses a greater degree of
abstinence than temperance.

ABSTENTION
Ab*sten"tion, a. Etym: [F. See Abstain.]

Defn: The act of abstaining; a holding aloof. Jer. Taylor.

ABSTENTIOUS
Ab*sten"tious, a.

Defn: Characterized by abstinence; self-restraining. Farrar.

ABSTERGE
Ab*sterge, v. t. Etym: [L. abstergere, abstersum; ab, abs + tergere
to wipe. Cf. F absterger.]

Defn: To make clean by wiping; to wipe away; to cleanse; hence, to
purge. [R.] Quincy.

ABSTERGENT
Ab*ster"gent, a. Etym: [L. abstergens, p. pr. of abstergere.]

Defn: Serving to cleanse, detergent.

ABSTERGENT
Ab*ster"gent, n.

Defn: A substance used in cleansing; a detergent; as, soap is an
abstergent.

ABSTERSE
Ab*sterse", v. t.

Defn: To absterge; to cleanse; to purge away. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ABSTERSION
Ab*ster"sion, n. Etym: [F. abstersion. See Absterge.]

Defn: Act of wiping clean; a cleansing; a purging.
The task of ablution and abstersion being performed. Sir W. Scott.

ABSTERSIVE
Ab*ster"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abstersif. See Absterge.]

Defn: Cleansing; purging. Bacon.

ABSTERSIVE
Ab*ster"sive, n.

Defn: Something cleansing.
The strong abstersive of some heroic magistrate. Milton.

ABSTERSIVENESS
Ab*ster"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstersive. Fuller.

ABSTINENCE
Ab"sti*nence, n. Etym: [F. abstinence, L. abstinentia, fr. abstinere.
See Abstain.]

1. The act or practice of abstaining; voluntary forbearance of any
action, especially the refraining from an indulgence of appetite, or
from customary gratifications of animal or sensual propensities.
Specifically, the practice of abstaining from intoxicating beverages,
-- called also total abstinence.
The abstinence from a present pleasure that offers itself is a pain,
nay, oftentimes, a very great one. Locke.

2. The practice of self-denial by depriving one's self of certain
kinds of food or drink, especially of meat.
Penance, fasts, and abstinence, To punish bodies for the soul's
offense. Dryden.

ABSTINENCY
Ab"sti*nen*cy, n.

Defn: Abstinence. [R.]

ABSTINENT
Ab"sti*nent, a. Etym: [F. abstinent, L. abstinens, p. pr. of
abstinere. See Abstain.]

Defn: Refraining from indulgence, especially from the indulgence of
appetite; abstemious; continent; temperate. Beau. & Fl.

ABSTINENT
Ab"sti*nent, n.

1. One who abstains.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect who appeared in France and Spain in the 3d
century.

ABSTINENTLY
Ab"sti*nent*ly, adv.

Defn: With abstinence.

ABSTORTED
Ab*stort"ed, a. Etym: [As if fr. abstort, fr. L. ab, abs + tortus, p.
p. of torquere to twist.]

Defn: Wrested away. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABSTRACT
Ab"stract` (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. abstractus, p. p. of abstrahere to
draw from, separate; ab, abs + trahere to draw. See Trace.]

1. Withdraw; separate. [Obs.]
The more abstract . . . we are from the body. Norris.

2. Considered apart from any application to a particular object;
separated from matter; exiting in the mind only; as, abstract truth,
abstract numbers. Hence: ideal; abstruse; difficult.

3. (Logic)
(a) Expressing a particular property of an object viewed apart from
the other properties which constitute it; -- opposed to Ant:
concrete; as, honesty is an abstract word. J. S. Mill.
(b) Resulting from the mental faculty of abstraction; general as
opposed to particular; as, "reptile" is an abstract or general name.
Locke.
A concrete name is a name which stands for a thing; an abstract name
which stands for an attribute of a thing. A practice has grown up in
more modern times, which, if not introduced by Locke, has gained
currency from his example, of applying the expression "abstract name"
to all names which are the result of abstraction and generalization,
and consequently to all general names, instead of confining it to the
names of attributes. J. S. Mill.

4. Abstracted; absent in mind. "Abstract, as in a trance." Milton. An
abstract idea (Metaph.), an idea separated from a complex object, or
from other ideas which naturally accompany it; as the solidity of
marble when contemplated apart from its color or figure.
 -- Abstract terms, those which express abstract ideas, as beauty,
whiteness, roundness, without regarding any object in which they
exist; or abstract terms are the names of orders, genera or species
of things, in which there is a combination of similar qualities.
 -- Abstract numbers (Math.), numbers used without application to
things, as 6, 8, 10; but when applied to any thing, as 6 feet, 10
men, they become concrete.
 -- Abstract or Pure mathematics. See Mathematics.

ABSTRACT
Ab*stract", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abstracted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abstracting.] Etym: [See Abstract, a.]

1. To withdraw; to separate; to take away.
He was incapable of forming any opinion or resolution abstracted from
his own prejudices. Sir W. Scott.

2. To draw off in respect to interest or attention; as, his was
wholly abstracted by other objects.
The young stranger had been abstracted and silent. Blackw. Mag.

3. To separate, as ideas, by the operation of the mind; to consider
by itself; to contemplate separately, as a quality or attribute.
Whately.

4. To epitomize; to abridge. Franklin.

5. To take secretly or dishonestly; to purloin; as, to abstract goods
from a parcel, or money from a till.
Von Rosen had quietly abstracted the bearing-reins from the harness.
W. Black.

6. (Chem.)

Defn: To separate, as the more volatile or soluble parts of a
substance, by distillation or other chemical processes. In this sense
extract is now more generally used.

ABSTRACT
Ab*stract", v. t.

Defn: To perform the process of abstraction. [R.]
I own myself able to abstract in one sense. Berkeley.

ABSTRACT
Ab"stract`, n. Etym: [See Abstract, a.]

1. That which comprises or concentrates in itself the essential
qualities of a larger thing or of several things. Specifically: A
summary or an epitome, as of a treatise or book, or of a statement; a
brief.
An abstract of every treatise he had read. Watts.
Man, the abstract Of all perfection, which the workmanship Of Heaven
hath modeled. Ford.

2. A state of separation from other things; as, to consider a subject
in the abstract, or apart from other associated things.

3. An abstract term.
The concretes "father" and "son" have, or might have, the abstracts
"paternity" and "filiety." J. S. Mill.

4. (Med.)

Defn: A powdered solid extract of a vegetable substance mixed with
sugar of milk in such proportion that one part of the abstract
represents two parts of the original substance. Abstract of title
(Law), an epitome of the evidences of ownership.

Syn.
 -- Abridgment; compendium; epitome; synopsis. See Abridgment.

ABSTRACTED
Ab*stract"ed, a.

1. Separated or disconnected; withdrawn; removed; apart.
The evil abstracted stood from his own evil. Milton.

2. Separated from matter; abstract; ideal. [Obs.]

3. Abstract; abstruse; difficult. [Obs.] Johnson.

4. Inattentive to surrounding objects; absent in mind. "An abstracted
scholar." Johnson.

ABSTRACTEDLY
Ab*stract"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abstracted manner; separately; with absence of mind.

ABSTRACTEDNESS
Ab*stract"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being abstracted; abstract character.

ABSTRACTER
Ab*stract"er, n.

Defn: One who abstracts, or makes an abstract.

ABSTRACTION
Ab*strac"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abstraction. See Abstract, a.]

1. The act of abstracting, separating, or withdrawing, or the state
of being withdrawn; withdrawal.
A wrongful abstraction of wealth from certain members of the
community. J. S. Mill.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: The act process of leaving out of consideration one or more
properties of a complex object so as to attend to others; analysis.
Thus, when the mind considers the form of a tree by itself, or the
color of the leaves as separate from their size or figure, the act is
called abstraction. So, also, when it considers whiteness, softness,
virtue, existence, as separate from any particular objects.

Note: Abstraction is necessary to classification, by which things are
arranged in genera and species. We separate in idea the qualities of
certain objects, which are of the same kind, from others which are
different, in each, and arrange the objects having the same
properties in a class, or collected body.
Abstraction is no positive act: it is simply the negative of
attention. Sir W. Hamilton.

3. An idea or notion of an abstract, or theoretical nature; as, to
fight for mere abstractions.

4. A separation from worldly objects; a recluse life; as, a hermit's
abstraction.

5. Absence or absorption of mind; inattention to present objects.

6. The taking surreptitiously for one's own use part of the property
of another; purloining. [Modern]

7. (Chem.)

Defn: A separation of volatile parts by the act of distillation.
Nicholson.

ABSTRACTIONAL
Ab*strac"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to abstraction.

ABSTRACTIONIST
Ab*strac"tion*ist, n.

Defn: An idealist. Emerson.

ABSTRACTITIOUS
Ab`strac*ti"tious, a.

Defn: Obtained from plants by distillation. [Obs.] Crabb.

ABSTRACTIVE
Ab*strac"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abstractif.]

Defn: Having the power of abstracting; of an abstracting nature. "The
abstractive faculty." I. Taylor.

ABSTRACTIVELY
Ab*strac"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a abstract manner; separately; in or by itself. Feltham.

ABSTRACTIVENESS
Ab*strac"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstractive; abstractive property.

ABSTRACTLY
Ab"stract`ly (#; 277), adv.

Defn: In an abstract state or manner; separately; absolutely; by
itself; as, matter abstractly considered.

ABSTRACTNESS
Ab"stract`ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstract. "The abstractness of the ideas."
Locke.

ABSTRINGE
Ab*stringe", v. t. Etym: [L ab + stringere, strictum, to press
together.]

Defn: To unbind. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABSTRUDE
Ab*strude", v. t. Etym: [L. abstrudere. See Abstruse.]

Defn: To thrust away. [Obs.] Johnson.

ABSTRUSE
Ab*struse", a. Etym: [L. abstrusus, p. p. of abstrudere to thrust
away, conceal; ab, abs + trudere to thrust; cf. F. abstrus. See
Threat.]

1. Concealed or hidden out of the way. [Obs.]
The eternal eye whose sight discerns Abstrusest thoughts. Milton.

2. Remote from apprehension; difficult to be comprehended or
understood; recondite; as, abstruse learning.
Profound and abstruse topics. Milman.

ABSTRUSELY
Ab*struse"ly, adv.

Defn: In an abstruse manner.

ABSTRUSENESS
Ab*struse"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstruse; difficulty of apprehension.
Boyle.

ABSTRUSION
Ab*stru"sion, n. Etym: [L. abstrusio. See Abstruse.]

Defn: The act of thrusting away. [R.] Ogilvie.

ABSTRUSITY
Ab*stru"si*ty, n.

Defn: Abstruseness; that which is abstruse. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

ABSUME
Ab*sume", v. t. Etym: [L. absumere, absumptum; ab + sumere to take.]

Defn: To consume gradually; to waste away. [Obs.] Boyle.

ABSUMPTION
Ab*sump"tion (#; 215), n. Etym: [L. absumptio. See Absume.]

Defn: Act of wasting away; a consuming; extinction. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

ABSURD
Ab*surd", a. Etym: [L. absurdus harsh-sounding; ab + (prob) a
derivative fr. a root svar to sound; not connected with surd: cf. F.
absurde. See Syringe.]

Defn: Contrary to reason or propriety; obviously and fiatly opposed
to manifest truth; inconsistent with the plain dictates of common
sense; logically contradictory; nonsensical; ridiculous; as, an
absurd person, an absurd opinion; an absurd dream.
This proffer is absurd and reasonless. Shak.
'This phrase absurd to call a villain great. Pope.
p. 9

Syn.
 -- Foolish; irrational; ridiculous; preposterous; inconsistent;
incongruous.
 -- Absurd, Irrational, Foolish, Preposterous. Of these terms,
irrational is the weakest, denoting that which is plainly
inconsistent with the dictates of sound reason; as, an irrational
course of life. Foolish rises higher, and implies either a perversion
of that faculty, or an absolute weakness or fatuity of mind; as,
foolish enterprises. Absurd rises still higher, denoting that which
is plainly opposed to received notions of propriety and truth; as, an
absurd man, project, opinion, story, argument, etc. Preposterous
rises still higher, and supposes an absolute inversion in the order
of things; or, in plain terms, a "putting of the cart before the
horse;" as, a preposterous suggestion, preposterous conduct, a
preposterous regulation or law.

ABSURD
Ab*surd", n.

Defn: An absurdity. [Obs.] Pope.

ABSURDITY
Ab*surd"i*ty, n.; pl. Absurdities. Etym: [L. absurditas: cf. F.
absurdite.]

1. The quality of being absurd or inconsistent with obvious truth,
reason, or sound judgment. "The absurdity of the actual idea of an
infinite number." Locke.

2. That which is absurd; an absurd action; a logical contradiction.
His travels were full of absurdities. Johnson.

ABSURDLY
Ab*surd"ly, adv.

Defn: In an absurd manner.

ABSURDNESS
Ab*surd"ness, n.

Defn: Absurdity. [R.]

ABUNA
A*bu"na, n. Etym: [Eth. and Ar., our father.]

Defn: The Patriarch, or head of the Abyssinian Church.

ABUNDANCE
A*bun"dance, n. Etym: [OE. (h)abudaunce, abundance, F. abundance, F.
abondance, L. abundantia, fr. abundare. See Abound.]

Defn: An overflowing fullness; ample sufficiency; great plenty;
profusion; copious supply; superfluity; wealth: -- strictly
applicable to quantity only, but sometimes used of number.
It is lamentable to remember what abundance of noble blood hath been
shed with small benefit to the Christian state. Raleigh.

Syn.
 -- Exuberance; plenteousness; plenty; copiousness; overflow; riches;
affluence; wealth.
 -- Abundance, Plenty, Exuberance. These words rise upon each other
in expressing the idea of fullness. Plenty denotes a sufficiency to
supply every want; as, plenty of food, plenty of money, etc.
Abundance express more, and gives the idea of superfluity or excess;
as, abundance of riches, an abundance of wit and humor; often,
however, it only denotes plenty in a high degree. Exuberance rises
still higher, and implies a bursting forth on every side, producing
great superfluity or redundance; as, an exuberance of mirth, an
exuberance of animal spirits, etc.

ABUNDANT
A*bun"dant, a. Etym: [OE. (h)abundant, aboundant, F. abondant, fr. L.
abudans, p. pr. of abundare. See Abound.]

Defn: Fully sufficient; plentiful; in copious supply; -- followed by
in, rarely by with. "Abundant in goodness and truth." Exod. xxxiv. 6.
Abundant number (Math.), a number, the sum of whose aliquot parts
exceeds the number itself. Thus, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, the aliquot parts of
12, make the number 16. This is opposed to a deficient number, as 14,
whose aliquot parts are 1, 2, 7, the sum of which is 10; and to a
perfect number, which is equal to the sum of its aliquot parts, as 6,
whose aliquot parts are 1, 2., 3.

Syn.
 -- Ample; plentiful; copious; plenteous; exuberant; overflowing;
rich; teeming; profuse; bountiful; liberal. See Ample.

ABUNDANTLY
A*bun"dant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sufficient degree; fully; amply; plentifully; in large
measure.

ABURST
A*burst", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + burst.]

Defn: In a bursting condition.

ABUSABLE
A*bus"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be abused.

ABUSAGE
A*bus"age, n.

Defn: Abuse. [Obs.] Whately (1634).

ABUSE
A*buse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abused; p. pr. & vb. n. Abusing.] Etym:
[F. abuser; L. abusus, p. p. of abuti to abuse, misuse; ab + uti to
use. See Use.]

1. To put to a wrong use; to misapply; to misuse; to put to a bad
use; to use for a wrong purpose or end; to pervert; as, to abuse
inherited gold; to make an excessive use of; as, to abuse one's
authority.
This principle (if one may so abuse the word) shoots rapidly into
popularity. Froude.

2. To use ill; to maltreat; to act injuriously to; to punish or to
tax excessively; to hurt; as, to abuse prisoners, to abuse one's
powers, one's patience.

3. To revile; to reproach coarsely; to disparage.
The . . . tellers of news abused the general. Macaulay.

4. To dishonor. "Shall flight abuse your name" Shak.

5. To violate; to ravish. Spenser.

6. To deceive; to impose on. [Obs.]
Their eyes red and staring, cozened with a moist cloud, and abused by
a double object. Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To maltreat; injure; revile; reproach; vilify; vituperate;
asperse; traduce; malign.

ABUSE
A*buse", n. Etym: [F. abus, L. abusus, fr. abuti. See Abuse, v. t.]

1. Improper treatment or use; application to a wrong or bad purpose;
misuse; as, an abuse of our natural powers; an abuse of civil rights,
or of privileges or advantages; an abuse of language.
Liberty may be endangered by the abuses of liberty, as well as by the
abuses of power. Madison.

2. Physical ill treatment; injury. "Rejoice . . . at the abuse of
Falstaff." Shak.

3. A corrupt practice or custom; offense; crime; fault; as, the
abuses in the civil service.
Abuse after disappeared without a struggle.. Macaulay.

4. Vituperative words; coarse, insulting speech; abusive language;
virulent condemnation; reviling.
The two parties, after exchanging a good deal of abuse, came to
blows. Macaulay.

5. Violation; rape; as, abuse of a female child. [Obs.]
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing Shak.
Abuse of distress (Law), a wrongful using of an animal or chattel
distrained, by the distrainer.

Syn.
 -- Invective; contumely; reproach; scurrility; insult; opprobrium.
 -- Abuse, Invective. Abuse is generally prompted by anger, and
vented in harsh and unseemly words. It is more personal and coarse
than invective. Abuse generally takes place in private quarrels;
invective in writing or public discussions. Invective may be conveyed
in refined language and dictated by indignation against what is
blameworthy. C. J. Smith.

ABUSEFUL
A*buse"ful, a.

Defn: Full of abuse; abusive. [R.] "Abuseful names." Bp. Barlow.

ABUSER
A*bus"er, n.

Defn: One who abuses [in the various senses of the verb].

ABUSION
A*bu"sion, n. Etym: [OE. abusion, abusioun, OF. abusion, fr. L.
abusio misuse of words, f. abuti. See Abuse, v. t.]

Defn: Evil or corrupt usage; abuse; wrong; reproach; deception;
cheat. Chaucer.

ABUSIVE
A*bu"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abusif, fr. L. abusivus.]

1. Wrongly used; perverted; misapplied.
I am . . . necessitated to use the word Parliament improperly,
according to the abusive acceptation thereof. Fuller.

2. Given to misusing; also, full of abuses. [Archaic] "The abusive
prerogatives of his see." Hallam.

3. Practicing abuse; prone to ill treat by coarse, insulting words or
by other ill usage; as, an abusive author; an abusive fellow.

4. Containing abuse, or serving as the instrument of abuse;
vituperative; reproachful; scurrilous. "An abusive lampoon." Johnson.

5. Tending to deceive; fraudulent; cheating. [Obs.] "An abusive
treaty." Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Reproachful; scurrilous; opprobrious; insolent; insulting;
injurious; offensive; reviling.

ABUSIVELY
A*bu"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abusive manner; rudely; with abusive language.

ABUSIVENESS
A*bu"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abusive; rudeness of language, or violence
to the person.
Pick out mirth, like stones out of thy ground, Profaneness,
filthiness, abusiveness. Herbert.

ABUT
A*but", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Abutted; p. pr. & vb. n. Abutting.] Etym:
[OF. abouter, aboter; cf. F. aboutir, and also abuter; a (L. ad) +
OF. boter, buter, to push: cf. F. bout end, and but end, purpose.]

Defn: To project; to terminate or border; to be contiguous; to meet;
-- with on, upon, or against; as, his land abuts on the road.

ABUTILON
A*bu"ti*lon, n. Etym: [Ar. aubutilun.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of malvaceous plants of many species, found in the
torrid and temperate zones of both continents; -- called also Indian
mallow.

ABUTMENT
A*but"ment, n.

1. State of abutting.

2. That on or against which a body abuts or presses; as
(a) (Arch.) The solid part of a pier or wall, etc., which receives
the thrust or lateral pressure of an arch, vault, or strut. Gwilt.
(b) (mech.) A fixed point or surface from which resistance or
reaction is obtained, as the cylinder head of a steam engine, the
fulcrum of a lever, etc.
(c) In breech-loading firearms, the block behind the barrel which
receives the pressure due to recoil.

ABUTTAL
A*but"tal, n.

Defn: The butting or boundary of land, particularly at the end; a
headland. Spelman.

ABUTTER
A*but"ter, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, abuts. Specifically, the owner of a
contiguous estate; as, the abutters on a street or a river.

ABUZZ
A*buzz", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + buzz.]

Defn: In a buzz; buzzing. [Colloq.] Dickens.

ABY; ABYE
A*by", A*bye", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Abought.] Etym: [AS. abycgan
to pay for; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig. meaning out) +
bycgan to buy. See Buy, and cf. Abide.]

1. To pay for; to suffer for; to atone for; to make amends for; to
give satisfaction. [Obs.]
Lest to thy peril thou aby it dear. Shak.

2. To endure; to abide. [Obs.]
But nought that wanteth rest can long aby. Spenser.

ABYSM
A*bysm", n. Etym: [OF. abisme; F. abime, LL. abyssimus, a superl. of
L. abyssus; Gr. Abyss.]

Defn: An abyss; a gulf. "The abysm of hell." Shak.

ABYSMAL
A*bys"mal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, an abyss; bottomless; unending;
profound.
Geology gives one the same abysmal extent of time that astronomy does
of space. Carlyle.

ABYSMALLY
A*bys"mal*ly, adv.

Defn: To a fathomless depth; profoundly. "Abysmally ignorant." G.
Eliot.

ABYSS
A*byss", n. Etym: [L. abyssus a bottomless gulf, fr. Gr.

1. A bottomless or unfathomed depth, gulf, or chasm; hence, any deep,
immeasurable, and, specifically, hell, or the bottomless pit.
Ye powers and spirits of this nethermost abyss. Milton.
The throne is darkness, in the abyss of light. Dryden.

2. Infinite time; a vast intellectual or moral depth.
The abysses of metaphysical theology. Macaulay.
In unfathomable abysses of disgrace. Burke.

3. (Her.)

Defn: The center of an escutcheon.

Note: This word, in its leading uses, is associated with the
cosmological notions of the Hebrews, having reference to a supposed
illimitable mass of waters from which our earth sprung, and beneath
whose profound depths the wicked were punished. Encyc. Brit.

ABYSSAL
A*byss"al, a. Etym: [Cf. Abysmal.]

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, an abyss; unfathomable. Abyssal
zone (Phys. Geog.), one of the belts or zones into which Sir E.
Forbes divides the bottom of the sea in describing its plants,
animals, etc. It is the one furthest from the shore, embracing all
beyond one hundred fathoms deep. Hence, abyssal animals, plants, etc.

ABYSSINIAN
Ab`ys*sin"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Abyssinia. Abyssinian gold, an alloy of
90.74 parts of copper and 8.33 parts of zink. Ure.

ABYSSINIAN
Ab`ys*sin"i*an, n.

1. A native of Abyssinia.

2. A member of the Abyssinian Church.

ACACIA
A*ca"ci*a, n. (Antiq.)

Defn: A roll or bag, filled with dust, borne by Byzantine emperors,
as a memento of mortality. It is represented on medals.

ACACIA
A*ca"cia, n.; pl. E. Acacias, L. Acaciæ. Etym: [L. from Gr. ak to be
sharp. See Acute.]

1. A genus of leguminous trees and shrubs. Nearly 300 species are
Australian or Polynesian, and have terete or vertically compressed
leaf stalks, instead of the bipinnate leaves of the much fewer
species of America, Africa, etc. Very few are found in temperate
climates.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The inspissated juice of several species of acacia; -- called
also gum acacia, and gum arabic.

ACACIN; ACACINE
Ac"a*cin, Ac"a*cine, n.

Defn: Gum arabic.

ACADEME
Ac`a*deme", n. Etym: [L. academia. See Academy.]

Defn: An academy. [Poetic] Shak.

ACADEMIAL
Ac`a*de"mi*al, a.

Defn: Academic. [R.]

ACADEMIAN
Ac`a*de"mi*an, n.

Defn: A member of an academy, university, or college.

ACADEMIC
Ac`a*dem"ic, n.

1. One holding the philosophy of Socrates and Plato; a Platonist.
Hume.

2. A member of an academy, college, or university; an academician.

ACADEMIC; ACADEMICAL
Ac`a*dem"ic, Ac`a*dem"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. academicus: cf. F.
académigue. See Academy.]

1. Belonging to the school or philosophy of Plato; as, the Academic
sect or philosophy.

2. Belonging to an academy or other higher institution of learning;
scholarly; literary or classical, in distinction from scientific.
"Academic courses." Warburton. "Academical study." Berkeley.

ACADEMICALLY
Ac`a*dem`ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an academical manner.

ACADEMICALS
Ac`a*dem"ic*als, n. pl.

Defn: The articles of dress prescribed and worn at some colleges and
universities.

ACADEMICIAN
Ac`a*de*mi"cian (#; 277), n. Etym: [F. académicien. See Academy.]

1. A member of an academy, or society for promoting science, art, or
literature, as of the French Academy, or the Royal Academy of arts.

2. A collegian. [R.] Chesterfield.

ACADEMICISM
Ac`a*dem"i*cism, n.

1. A tenet of the Academic philosophy.

2. A mannerism or mode peculiar to an academy.

ACADEMISM
A*cad"e*mism, n.

Defn: The doctrines of the Academic philosophy. [Obs.] Baxter.

ACADEMIST
A*cad"e*mist, n. Etym: [F. academiste.]

1. An Academic philosopher.

2. An academician. [Obs.] Ray.

ACADEMY
A*cad"e*my, n.; pl. Academies. Etym: [F. académie, L. academia. Cf.
Academe.]

1. A garden or grove near Athens (so named from the hero Academus),
where Plato and his followers held their philosophical conferences;
hence, the school of philosophy of which Plato was head.

2. An institution for the study of higher learning; a college or a
university. Popularly, a school, or seminary of learning, holding a
rank between a college and a common school.

3. A place of training; a school. "Academies of fanaticism." Hume.

4. A society of learned men united for the advancement of the arts
and sciences, and literature, or some particular art or science; as,
the French Academy; the American Academy of Arts and Sciences;
academies of literature and philology.

5. A school or place of training in which some special art is taught;
as, the military academy at West Point; a riding academy; the Academy
of Music. Academy figure (Paint.), a drawing usually half life-size,
in crayon or pencil, after a nude model.

ACADIAN
A*ca"di*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Acadie, or Nova Scotia. "Acadian farmers."
Longfellow.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Acadie. Acadian epoch (Geol.), an epoch at the
beginning of the American paleozoic time, and including the oldest
American rocks known to be fossiliferous. See Geology.
 -- Acadian owl (Zoöl.), a small North American owl (Nyctule
Acadica); the saw-whet.

ACAJOU
Ac"a*jou, n. Etym: [F. See Cashew.] (Bot.)
(a) The cashew tree; also, its fruit. See Cashew.
(b) The mahogany tree; also, its timber.

ACALEPH; ACALEPHAN
Ac"a*leph, Ac`a*le"phan n.; pl. Acalephs, Acalephans. Etym: [See
Acalephæ.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Acalephæ.

ACALEPHAE
Ac`a*le"phæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

Defn: A group of Coelenterata, including the Medusæ or jellyfishes,
and hydroids; -- so called from the stinging power they possess.
Sometimes called sea nettles.

ACALEPHOID
Ac`ale"phoid, a. Etym: [Acaleph + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to or resembling the Acalephæ or jellyfishes.

ACALYCINE; ACALYSINOUS
A*cal"y*cine, Ac`a*lys`i*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Without a calyx, or outer floral envelope.

ACANTH
A*canth", n.

Defn: Same as Acanthus.

ACANTHA
A*can"tha, n. Etym: [Gr. Acute.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A prickle.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spine or prickly fin.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The vertebral column; the spinous process of a vertebra.
Dunglison.

ACANTHACEOUS
Ac"an*tha"ceous, a.

1. Armed with prickles, as a plant.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which
the acanthus is the type.

ACANTHINE
A*can"thine, a. Etym: [L. acanthinus, Gr. Acanthus.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant acanthus.

ACANTHOCARPOUS
A*can`tho*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the fruit covered with spines.

ACANTHOCEPHALA
A*can`tho*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of intestinal worms, having the proboscis armed with
recurved spines.

ACANTHOCEPHALOUS
A*can`tho*ceph"a*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a spiny head, as one of the Acanthocephala.

ACANTHOPHOROUS
Ac`an*thoph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Spine-bearing. Gray.

ACANTHOPODIOUS
A*can`tho*po"di*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having spinous petioles.

ACANTHOPTERI
Ac`an*thop"ter*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of teleostean fishes having spiny fins. See
Acanthopterygii.

ACANTHOPTEROUS
Ac`an*thop"ter*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Spiny-winged.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Acanthopterygious.

ACANTHOPTERYGIAN
Ac`an*thop`ter*yg"i*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the order of fishes having spinose fins, as the
perch.
 -- n.

Defn: A spiny-finned fish.

ACANTHOPTERYGII
Ac`an*thop`ter*yg"i*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of fishes having some of the rays of the dorsal,
ventral, and anal fins unarticulated and spinelike, as the perch.

ACANTHOPTERYGIOUS
Ac`an*thop`ter*yg"i*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having fins in which the rays are hard and spinelike; spiny-
finned.

ACANTHUS
A*can"thus, n.; pl. E. Acanthuses, L. Acanthi. Etym: [L., from Gr.
Acantha.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbaceous prickly plants, found in the south of
Europe, Asia Minor, and India; bear's-breech.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament resembling the foliage or leaves of the acanthus
(Acanthus spinosus); -- used in the capitals of the Corinthian and
Composite orders.

A CAPPELLA
A cap*pel"la. Etym: [It. See Chapel.] (Mus.)
(a) In church or chapel style; -- said of compositions sung in the
old church style, without instrumental accompaniment; as, a mass a
capella, i. e., a mass purely vocal.
(b) A time indication, equivalent to alla breve.

ACAPSULAR
A*cap"su*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + capsular.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having no capsule.

ACARDIAC
A*car"di*ac, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Without a heart; as, an acardiac fetus.

ACARIDAN
A*car"i*dan, n. Etym: [See Acarus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of arachnids, including the mites and ticks.

ACARINA
Ac`a*ri"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The group of Arachnida which includes the mites and ticks. Many
species are parasitic, and cause diseases like the itch and mange.

ACARINE
Ac"a*rine, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or caused by acari or mites; as, acarine diseases.

ACAROID
Ac"a*roid, a. Etym: [NL., acarus a mite + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Shaped like or resembling a mite.

ACARPELLOUS
Ac`ar*pel"lous, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + carpel.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having no carpels.

ACARPOUS
A*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Not producing fruit; unfruitful.

ACARUS
Ac"a*rus, n.; pl. Acari. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus including many species of small mites.

ACATALECTIC
A*cat`a*lec"tic, a. Etym: [L. acatalecticus, Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: Not defective; complete; as, an acatalectic verse.
 -- n.

Defn: A verse which has the complete number of feet and syllables.

ACATALEPSY
A*cat"a*lep`sy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Incomprehensibility of things; the doctrine held by the ancient
Skeptic philosophers, that human knowledge never amounts to
certainty, but only to probability.

ACATALEPTIC
A*cat`a*lep"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Incapable of being comprehended; incomprehensible.

ACATER
A*ca"ter, n.

Defn: See Caterer. [Obs.]

ACATES
A*cates", n. pl.

Defn: See Cates. [Obs.]

ACAUDATE
A*cau"date, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + caudate.]

Defn: Tailless.

ACAULESCENT
Ac`au*les"cent, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + caulescent.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having no stem or caulis, or only a very short one concealed in
the ground. Gray.

ACAULINE
A*cau"line, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + cauline.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Acaulescent.

ACAULOSE; ACAULOUS
A*cau"lose, A*cau"lous, a. Etym: [Gr. caulis stalk. See Cole.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Acaulescent.

ACCADIAN
Ac*ca"di*an, a. Etym: [From the city Accad. See Gen. x. 10.]

Defn: Pertaining to a race supposed to have lived in Babylonia before
the Assyrian conquest.
 -- Ac*ca"di*an, n., Ac"cad, n. Sayce.

ACCEDE
Ac*cede", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Acceded; p. pr. & vb. n. Acceding.]
Etym: [L. accedere to approach, accede; ad + cedere to move, yield:
cf. F. accédere. See Cede.]

1. To approach; to come forward; -- opposed to recede. [Obs.] T.
Gale.

2. To enter upon an office or dignity; to attain.
Edward IV., who had acceded to the throne in the year 1461. T.
Warton.
If Frederick had acceded to the supreme power. Morley.

3. To become a party by associating one's self with others; to give
one's adhesion. Hence, to agree or assent to a proposal or a view;
as, he acceded to my request.
The treaty of Hanover in 1725 . . . to which the Dutch afterwards
acceded. Chesterfield.

Syn.
 -- To agree; assent; consent; comply; acquiesce; concur.

ACCEDENCE
Ac*ced"ence, n.

Defn: The act of acceding.

ACCEDER
Ac*ced"er, n.

Defn: One who accedes.

ACCELERANDO
Ac*cel`er*an"do, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Gradually accelerating the movement.

ACCELERATE
Ac*cel"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accelerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accelerating.] Etym: [L. acceleratus, p. p. of accelerare; ad +
celerare to hasten; celer quick. See Celerity.]

1. To cause to move faster; to quicken the motion of; to add to the
speed of; -- opposed to retard.

2. To quicken the natural or ordinary progression or process of; as,
to accelerate the growth of a plant, the increase of wealth, etc.

3. To hasten, as the occurence of an event; as, to accelerate our
departure. Accelerated motion (Mech.), motion with a continually
increasing velocity.
 -- Accelerating force, the force which causes accelerated motion.
Nichol.

Syn.
 -- To hasten; expedite; quicken; dispatch; forward; advance;
further.

ACCELERATION
Ac*cel`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. acceleratio: cf. F. accélération.]

Defn: The act of accelerating, or the state of being accelerated;
increase of motion or action; as, a falling body moves toward the
earth with an acceleration of velocity; -- opposed to retardation.
A period of social improvement, or of intellectual advancement,
contains within itself a principle of acceleration. I. Taylor.
(Astr. & Physics.) Acceleration of the moon, the increase of the
moon's mean motion in its orbit, in consequence of which its period
of revolution is now shorter than in ancient times.
 -- Acceleration and retardation of the tides. See Priming of the
tides, under Priming.
 -- Diurnal acceleration of the fixed stars, the amount by which
their apparent diurnal motion exceeds that of the sun, in consequence
of which they daily come to the meridian of any place about three
minutes fifty-six seconds of solar time earlier than on the day
preceding.
 -- Acceleration of the planets, the increasing velocity of their
motion, in proceeding from the apogee to the perigee of their orbits.

ACCELERATIVE
Ac*cel"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Relating to acceleration; adding to velocity; quickening. Reid.

ACCELERATOR
Ac*cel"er*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, accelerates. Also as an adj.; as,
accelerator nerves.

ACCELERATORY
Ac*cel"er*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Accelerative.

ACCELEROGRAPH
Ac*cel"er*o*graph, n. Etym: [Accelerate + -graph.] (Mil.)

Defn: An apparatus for studying the combustion of powder in guns,
etc.

ACCELEROMETER
Ac*cel`er*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Accelerate + -meter.]

Defn: An apparatus for measuring the velocity imparted by gunpowder.

ACCEND
Ac*cend", v. t. Etym: [L. accendere, accensum, to kindle; ad +
candère to kindle (only in compounds); rel. to candere to be white,
to gleam. See Candle.]

Defn: To set on fire; to kindle. [Obs.] Fotherby.

ACCENDIBILITY
Ac*cend`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capacity of being kindled, or of becoming inflamed;
inflammability.

ACCENDIBLE
Ac*cend"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being inflamed or kindled; combustible; inflammable.
Ure.

ACCENSION
Ac*cen"sion, n.

Defn: The act of kindling or the state of being kindled; ignition.
Locke.

ACCENSOR
Ac*cen"sor, n. Etym: [LL., from p. p. accensus. See Accend.] (R. C.
Ch.)

Defn: One of the functionaries who light and trim the tapers.

ACCENT
Ac"cent`, n. Etym: [F. accent, L. accentus; ad + cantus a singing,
canere to sing. See Cant.]

1. A superior force of voice or of articulative effort upon some
particular syllable of a word or a phrase, distinguishing it from the
others.

Note: Many English words have two accents, the primary and the
secondary; the primary being uttered with a greater stress of voice
than the secondary; as in as'pira''tion, where the chief stress is on
the third syllable, and a slighter stress on the first. Some words,
as an'tiap'o-plec''tic, in-com'pre-hen'si-bil''i-ty, have two
secondary accents. See Guide to Pron., tt 30-46.

2. A mark or character used in writing, and serving to regulate the
pronunciation; esp.: (a) a mark to indicate the nature and place of
the spoken accent; (b) a mark to indicate the quality of sound of the
vowel marked; as, the French accents.

Note: In the ancient Greek the acute accent (') meant a raised tone
or pitch, the grave (`), the level tone or simply the negation of
accent, the circumflex ( ~ or ^) a tone raised and then depressed. In
works on elocution, the first is often used to denote the rising
inflection of the voice; the second, the falling inflection; and the
third (^), the compound or waving inflection. In dictionaries,
spelling books, and the like, the acute accent is used to designate
the syllable which receives the chief stress of voice.

3. Modulation of the voice in speaking; manner of speaking or
pronouncing; peculiar or characteristic modification of the voice;
tone; as, a foreign accent; a French or a German accent. "Beguiled
you in a plain accent." Shak. "A perfect accent." Thackeray.
The tender accent of a woman's cry. Prior.

4. A word; a significant tone; (pl.) expressions in general; speech.
Winds! on your wings to Heaven her accents bear, Such words as Heaven
alone is fit to hear. Dryden.

5. (Pros.)

Defn: Stress laid on certain syllables of a verse.

6. (Mus.)
(a) A regularly recurring stress upon the tone to mark the beginning,
and, more feebly, the third part of the measure.
(b) A special emphasis of a tone, even in the weaker part of the
measure.
(c) The rythmical accent, which marks phrases and sections of a
period.
(d) The expressive emphasis and shading of a passage. J. S. Dwight.

7. (Math.)
(a) A mark placed at the right hand of a letter, and a little above
it, to distinguish magnitudes of a similar kind expressed by the same
letter, but differing in value, as y', y''.
(b) (Trigon.) A mark at the right hand of a number, indicating
minutes of a degree, seconds, etc.; as, 12'27'', i. e., twelve
minutes twenty seven seconds.
(c) (Engin.) A mark used to denote feet and inches; as, 6' 10'' is
six feet ten inches.

ACCENT
Ac*cent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accented; p. pr. & vb. n. Accenting.]
Etym: [OF. accenter, F. accentuer.]

1. To express the accent of (either by the voice or by a mark); to
utter or to mark with accent.

2. To mark emphatically; to emphasize.

ACCENTLESS
Ac"cent`less, a.

Defn: Without accent.

ACCENTOR
Ac*cen"tor, n. Etym: [L. ad. + cantor singer, canere to sing.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: One who sings the leading part; the director or leader. [Obs.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of European birds (so named from their sweet notes),
including the hedge warbler. In America sometimes applied to the
water thrushes.

ACCENTUABLE
Ac*cen"tu*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being accented.

ACCENTUAL
Ac*cen"tu*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to accent; characterized or formed by accent.

ACCENTUALITY
Ac*cen`tu*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being accentual.

ACCENTUALLY
Ac*cen"tu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an accentual manner; in accordance with accent.

ACCENTUATE
Ac*cen"tu*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accentuated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accentuating.] Etym: [LL. accentuatus, p. p. of accentuare, fr. L.
accentus: cf. F. accentuer.]

1. To pronounce with an accent or with accents.

2. To bring out distinctly; to make prominent; to emphasize.
In Bosnia, the struggle between East and West was even more
accentuated. London Times.

3. To mark with the written accent.

ACCENTUATION
Ac*cen`tu*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. accentuatio: cf. F. accentuation.]

Defn: Act of accentuating; applications of accent. Specifically
(Eccles. Mus.),

Defn: pitch or modulation of the voice in reciting portions of the
liturgy.

ACCEPT
Ac*cept", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accepted; p. pr. & vb. n. Accepting.]
Etym: [F. accepter, L. acceptare, freq. of accipere; ad + capere to
take; akin to E. heave.]

1. To receive with a consenting mind (something offered); as, to
accept a gift; -- often followed by of.
If you accept them, then their worth is great. Shak.
To accept of ransom for my son. Milton.
She accepted of a treat. Addison.

2. To receive with favor; to approve.
The Lord accept thy burnt sacrifice. Ps. xx. 3.
Peradventure he will accept of me. Gen. xxxii. 20.

3. To receive or admit and agree to; to assent to; as, I accept your
proposal, amendment, or excuse.

4. To take by the mind; to understand; as, How are these words to be
accepted

5. (Com.)

Defn: To receive as obligatory and promise to pay; as, to accept a
bill of exchange. Bouvier.

6. In a deliberate body, to receive in acquittance of a duty imposed;
as, to accept the report of a committee. [This makes it the property
of the body, and the question is then on its adoption.] To accept a
bill (Law), to agree (on the part of the drawee) to pay it when due.
 -- To accept service (Law), to agree that a writ or process shall be
considered as regularly served, when it has not been.
 -- To accept the person (Eccl.), to show favoritism. "God accepteth
no man's person." Gal. ii. 6.

Syn.
 -- To receive; take; admit. See Receive.

ACCEPT
Ac*cept", a.

Defn: Accepted. [Obs.] Shak.

ACCEPTABILITY
Ac*cept`a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. acceptabilitas.]

Defn: The quality of being acceptable; acceptableness. "Acceptability
of repentance." Jer. Taylor.

ACCEPTABLE
Ac*cept"a*ble, a. Etym: [F. acceptable, L. acceptabilis, fr.
acceptare.]

Defn: Capable, worthy, or sure of being accepted or received with
pleasure; pleasing to a receiver; gratifying; agreeable; welcome; as,
an acceptable present, one acceptable to us.

ACCEPTABLENESS
Ac*cept"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being acceptable, or suitable to be favorably
received; acceptability.

ACCEPTABLY
Ac*cept"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an acceptable manner; in a manner to please or give
satisfaction.

ACCEPTANCE
Ac*cept"ance, n.

1. The act of accepting; a receiving what is offered, with
approbation, satisfaction, or acquiescence; esp., favorable
reception; approval; as, the acceptance of a gift, office, doctrine,
etc.
They shall come up with acceptance on mine altar. Isa. lx. 7.

2. State of being accepted; acceptableness. "Makes it assured of
acceptance." Shak.

3. (Com.)
(a) An assent and engagement by the person on whom a bill of exchange
is drawn, to pay it when due according to the terms of the
acceptance.
(b) The bill itself when accepted.

4. An agreeing to terms or proposals by which a bargain is concluded
and the parties are bound; the reception or taking of a thing bought
as that for which it was bought, or as that agreed to be delivered,
or the taking possession as owner.

5. (Law)

Defn: An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which binds
the person in law.

Note: What acts shall amount to such an acceptance is often a
question of great nicety and difficulty. Mozley & W.

Note: In modern law, proposal and acceptance are the constituent
elements into which all contracts are resolved. Acceptance of a bill
of exchange, check, draft, or order, is an engagement to pay it
according to the terms. This engagement is usually made by writing
the word "accepted" across the face of the bill. Acceptance of goods,
under the statute of frauds, is an intelligent acceptance by a party
knowing the nature of the transaction.

6. Meaning; acceptation. [Obs.] Acceptance of persons, partiality,
favoritism. See under Accept.

ACCEPTANCY
Ac*cept"an*cy, n.

Defn: Acceptance. [R.]
Here's a proof of gift, But here's no proof, sir, of acceptancy. Mrs.
Browning.

ACCEPTANT
Ac*cept"ant, a.

Defn: Accepting; receiving.

ACCEPTANT
Ac*cept"ant, n.

Defn: An accepter. Chapman.

ACCEPTATION
Ac`cep*ta"tion, n.

1. Acceptance; reception; favorable reception or regard; state of
being acceptable. [Obs.]
This is saying worthy of all acceptation. 1 Tim. i. 15.
Some things . . . are notwithstanding of so great dignity and
acceptation with God. Hooker.

2. The meaning in which a word or expression is understood, or
generally received; as, term is to be used according to its usual
acceptation.
My words, in common acceptation, Could never give this provocation.
Gay.

ACCEPTEDLY
Ac*cept"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a accepted manner; admittedly.

ACCEPTER
Ac*cept"er, n.

1. A person who accepts; a taker.

2. A respecter; a viewer with partiality. [Obs.]
God is no accepter of persons. Chillingworth.

3. (Law)

Defn: An acceptor.

ACCEPTILATION
Ac*cep`ti*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. acceptilatio entry of a debt
collected, acquittance, fr. p. p. of accipere (cf. Accept) + latio a
carrying, fr. latus, p. p. of ferre to carry: cf. F. acceptilation.]
(Civil Law)

Defn: Gratuitous discharge; a release from debt or obligation without
payment; free remission.

ACCEPTION
Ac*cep"tion, n. Etym: [L. acceptio a receiving, accepting: cf. F.
acception.]

Defn: Acceptation; the received meaning. [Obs.]
Here the word "baron" is not to be taken in that restrictive sense to
which the modern acception hath confined it. Fuller.
Acception of persons or faces (Eccl.), favoritism; partiality. [Obs.]
Wyclif.

ACCEPTIVE
Ac*cept"ive, a.

1. Fit for acceptance.

2. Ready to accept. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ACCEPTOR
Ac*cept"or (#; 277), n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who accepts; specifically (Law & Com.),

Defn: one who accepts an order or a bill of exchange; a drawee after
he has accepted.

ACCESS
Ac*cess" (#; 277), n. Etym: [F. accès, L. accessus, fr. accedere. See
Accede.]

1. A coming to, or near approach; admittance; admission;
accessibility; as, to gain access to a prince.
I did repel his letters, and denied His access to me. Shak.

2. The means, place, or way by which a thing may be approached;
passage way; as, the access is by a neck of land. "All access was
thronged." Milton.

3. Admission to sexual intercourse.
During coverture, access of the husband shall be presumed, unless the
contrary be shown. Blackstone.

4. Increase by something added; addition; as, an access of territory.
[In this sense accession is more generally used.]
I, from the influence of thy looks, receive Access in every virtue.
Milton.

5. An onset, attack, or fit of disease.
The first access looked like an apoplexy. Burnet.

6. A paroxysm; a fit of passion; an outburst; as, an access of fury.
[A Gallicism]

ACCESSARILY
Ac*ces"sa*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an accessary.

ACCESSARINESS
Ac*ces"sa*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being accessary.

ACCESSARY
Ac*ces"sa*ry (#; 277), a.

Defn: Accompanying, as a subordinate; additional; accessory; esp.,
uniting in, or contributing to, a crime, but not as chief actor. See
Accessory.
To both their deaths thou shalt be accessary. Shak.
Amongst many secondary and accessary causes that support monarchy,
these are not of least reckoning. Milton.

ACCESSARY
Ac*ces"sa*ry (277), n.; pl. Accessaries. Etym: [Cf. Accessory and LL.
accessarius.] (Law)

Defn: One who, not being present, contributes as an assistant or
instigator to the commission of an offense. Accessary before the fact
(Law), one who commands or counsels an offense, not being present at
its commission.
 -- Accessary after the fact, one who, after an offense, assists or
shelters the offender, not being present at the commission of the
offense.

Note: This word, as used in law, is spelt accessory by Blackstone and
many others; but in this sense is spelt accessary by Bouvier,
Burrill, Burns, Whishaw, Dane, and the Penny Cyclopedia; while in
other senses it is spelt accessory. In recent text-books on criminal
law the distinction is not preserved, the spelling being either
accessary or accessory.

ACCESSIBILITY
Ac*cess`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. accessibilitas: cf. F.
accessibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being accessible, or of admitting approach;
receptibility. Langhorne.

ACCESSIBLE
Ac*cess"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. accessibilis, fr. accedere: cf. F.
accessible. See Accede.]

1. Easy of access or approach; approachable; as, an accessible town
or mountain, an accessible person.

2. Open to the influence of; -- with to. "Minds accessible to
reason." Macaulay.

3. Obtainable; to be got at.
The best information . . . at present accessible. Macaulay.

ACCESSIBLY
Ac*cess"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an accessible manner.

ACCESSION
Ac*ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. accessio, fr. accedere: cf. F. accession.
See Accede.]

1. A coming to; the act of acceding and becoming joined; as, a king's
accession to a confederacy.

2. Increase by something added; that which is added; augmentation
from without; as, an accession of wealth or territory.
The only accession which the Roman empire received was the province
of Britain. Gibbon.

3. (Law)
(a) A mode of acquiring property, by which the owner of a corporeal
substance which receives an addition by growth, or by labor, has a
right to the part or thing added, or the improvement (provided the
thing is not changed into a different species). Thus, the owner of a
cow becomes the owner of her calf.
(b) The act by which one power becomes party to engagements already
in force between other powers. Kent.

4. The act of coming to or reaching a throne, an office, or dignity;
as, the accession of the house of Stuart; -- applied especially to
the epoch of a new dynasty.

5. (Med.)

Defn: The invasion, approach, or commencement of a disease; a fit or
paroxysm.

Syn.
 -- Increase; addition; augmentation; enlargement.

ACCESSIONAL
Ac*ces"sion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to accession; additional. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

ACCESSIVE
Ac*ces"sive, a.

Defn: Additional.

ACCESSORIAL
Ac`ces*so"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an accessory; as, accessorial agency,
accessorial guilt.

ACCESSORILY
Ac*ces"so*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an accessory; auxiliary.

ACCESSORINESS
Ac*ces"so*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being accessory, or connected subordinately.

ACCESSORY
Ac*ces"so*ry (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. accessorius. See Access, and cf.
Accessary.]

Defn: Accompanying as a subordinate; aiding in a secondary way;
additional; connected as an incident or subordinate to a principal;
contributing or contributory; said of persons and things, and, when
of persons, usually in a bad sense; as, he was accessory to the riot;
accessory sounds in music.

Note: Ash accents the antepenult; and this is not only more regular,
but preferable, on account of easiness of pronunciation. Most
orhoëpists place the accent on the first syllable.

Syn.
 -- Accompanying; contributory; auxiliary; subsidiary; subservient;
additional; acceding.

ACCESSORY
Ac*ces"so*ry, n.; pl. Accessories.

1. That which belongs to something else deemed the principal;
something additional and subordinate. "The aspect and accessories of
a den of banditti." Carlyle.

2. (Law)

Defn: Same as Accessary, n.

3. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Anything that enters into a work of art without being
indispensably necessary, as mere ornamental parts. Elmes.

Syn.
 -- Abettor; accomplice; ally; coadjutor. See Abettor.

ACCIACCATURA
Ac*ciac`ca*tu"ra, n. Etym: [It., from acciaccare to crush.] (Mus.)

Defn: A short grace note, one semitone below the note to which it is
prefixed; -- used especially in organ music. Now used as equivalent
to the short appoggiatura.

ACCIDENCE
Ac"ci*dence, n. Etym: [A corruption of Eng. accidents, pl. of
accident. See Accident, 2.]

1. The accidents, of inflections of words; the rudiments of grammar.
Milton.

2. The rudiments of any subject. Lowell.

ACCIDENT
Ac"ci*dent, n. Etym: [F. accident, fr. L. accidens, -dentis, p. pr.
of accidere to happen; ad + cadere to fall. See Cadence, Case.]

1. Literally, a befalling; an event that takes place without one's
foresight or expectation; an undesigned, sudden, and unexpected
event; chance; contingency; often, an undesigned and unforeseen
occurrence of an afflictive or unfortunate character; a casualty; a
mishap; as, to die by an accident.
Of moving accidents by flood and field. Shak.
Thou cam'st not to thy place by accident: It is the very place God
meant for thee. Trench.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A property attached to a word, but not essential to it, as
gender, number, case.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A point or mark which may be retained or omitted in a coat of
arms.

4. (Log.)
(a) A property or quality of a thing which is not essential to it, as
whiteness in paper; an attribute.
(b) A quality or attribute in distinction from the substance, as
sweetness, softness.

5. Any accidental property, fact, or relation; an accidental or
nonessential; as, beauty is an accident.
This accident, as I call it, of Athens being situated some miles from
the sea. J. P. Mahaffy.

6. Unusual appearance or effect. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Note: Accident, in Law, is equivalent to casus, or such unforeseen,
extraordinary, extraneous interference as is out of the range of
ordinary calculation.

ACCIDENTAL
Ac`ci*den"tal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. accidentel, earlier accidental.]

1. Happening by chance, or unexpectedly; taking place not according
to the usual course of things; casual; fortuitous; as, an accidental
visit.

2. Nonessential; not necessary belonging; incidental; as, are
accidental to a play. Accidental chords (Mus.), those which contain
one or more tones foreign to their proper harmony.
 -- Accidental colors (Opt.), colors depending on the
hypersensibility of the retina of the eye for complementary colors.
They are purely subjective sensations of color which often result
from the contemplation of actually colored bodies.
 -- Accidental point (Persp.), the point in which a right line, drawn
from the eye, parallel to a given right line, cuts the perspective
plane; so called to distinguish it from the principal point, or point
of view, where a line drawn from the eye perpendicular to the
perspective plane meets this plane.
 -- Accidental lights (Paint.), secondary lights; effects of light
other than ordinary daylight, such as the rays of the sun darting
through a cloud, or between the leaves of trees; the effect of
moonlight, candlelight, or burning bodies. Fairholt.

Syn.
 -- Casual; fortuitous; contingent; occasional; adventitious.
 -- Accidental, Incidental, Casual, Fortuitous, Contingent. We speak
of a thing as accidental when it falls out as by chance, and not in
the regular course of things; as, an accidental meeting, an
accidental advantage, etc. We call a thing incidental when it falls,
as it were, into some regular course of things, but is secondary, and
forms no essential part thereof; as, an incremental remark, an
incidental evil, an incidental benefit. We speak of a thing as
casual, when it falls out or happens, as it were, by mere chance,
without being prearranged or premeditated; as, a casual remark or
encounter; a casual observer. An idea of the unimportant is attached
to what is casual. Fortuitous is applied to what occurs without any
known cause, and in opposition to what has been foreseen; as, a
fortuitous concourse of atoms. We call a thing contingent when it is
such that, considered in itself, it may or may not happen, but is
dependent for its existence on something else; as, the time of my
coming will be contingent on intelligence yet to be received.

ACCIDENTAL
Ac`ci*den"tal, n.

1. A property which is not essential; a nonessential; anything
happening accidentally.
He conceived it just that accidentals . . . should sink with the
substance of the accusation. Fuller.

2. pl. (Paint.)

Defn: Those fortuitous effects produced by luminous rays falling on
certain objects so that some parts stand forth in abnormal brightness
and other parts are cast into a deep shadow.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A sharp, flat, or natural, occurring not at the commencement of
a piece of music as the signature, but before a particular note.

ACCIDENTALISM
Ac`ci*den"tal*ism, n.

Defn: Accidental character or effect. Ruskin.

ACCIDENTALITY
Ac`ci*den*tal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being accidental; accidentalness. [R.]
Coleridge.

ACCIDENTALLY
Ac`ci*den"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: In an accidental manner; unexpectedly; by chance;
unintentionally; casually; fortuitously; not essentially.

ACCIDENTALNESS
Ac`ci*den"tal*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being accidental; casualness.

ACCIDIE
Ac"ci*die, n. Etym: [OF. accide, accidie, LL. accidia, acedia, fr.
Gr.

Defn: Sloth; torpor. [Obs.] "The sin of accidie." Chaucer.

ACCIPENSER
Ac`ci*pen"ser, n.

Defn: See Acipenser.

ACCIPIENT
Ac*cip"i*ent, n. Etym: [L. accipiens, p. pr. of accipere. See
Accept.]

Defn: A receiver. [R.] Bailey

ACCIPITER
Ac*cip"i*ter, n.; pl. E. Accipiters. L. Accipitres. Etym: [L., hawk.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of rapacious birds; one of the Accipitres or Raptores.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: A bandage applied over the nose, resembling the claw of a hawk.

ACCIPITRAL
Ac*cip"i*tral, n.

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a falcon or hawk; hawklike.
Lowell.

ACCIPITRES
Ac*cip"i*tres, n. pl. Etym: [L., hawks.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The order that includes rapacious birds. They have a hooked
bill, and sharp, strongly curved talons. There are three families,
represented by the vultures, the falcons or hawks, and the owls.

ACCIPITRINE
Ac*cip"i*trine (#; 277), a. Etym: [Cf. F. accipitrin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or belonging to the Accipitres; raptorial; hawklike.

ACCISMUS
Ac*cis"mus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: Affected refusal; coyness.

ACCITE
Ac*cite", v. t. Etym: [L. accitus, p. p. of accire, accere, to call
for; ad + ciere to move, call. See Cite.]

Defn: To cite; to summon. [Obs.]
Our heralds now accited all that were Endamaged by the Elians.
Chapman.

ACCLAIM
Ac*claim", v. t. Etym: [L. acclamare; ad + clamare to cry out. See
Claim, Clamor.] [R.]

1. To applaud. "A glad acclaiming train." Thomson.

2. To declare by acclamations.
While the shouting crowd Acclaims thee king of traitors. Smollett.

3. To shout; as, to acclaim my joy.

ACCLAIM
Ac*claim", v. i.

Defn: To shout applause.

ACCLAIM
Ac*claim", n.

Defn: Acclamation. [Poetic] Milton.

ACCLAIMER
Ac*claim"er, n.

Defn: One who acclaims.

ACCLAMATION
Ac`cla*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. acclamatio: cf. F. acclamation.]

1. A shout of approbation, favor, or assent; eager expression of
approval; loud applause.
On such a day, a holiday having been voted by acclamation, an
ordinary walk would not satisfy the children. Southey.

2. (Antiq.)

Defn: A representation, in sculpture or on medals, of people
expressing joy. Acclamation medals are those on which laudatory
acclamations are recorded. Elmes.

ACCLAMATORY
Ac*clam"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or expressing approval by, acclamation.

ACCLIMATABLE
Ac*cli"ma*ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being acclimated.

ACCLIMATATION
Ac*cli`ma*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. acclimation. See Acclimate.]

Defn: Acclimatization.

ACCLIMATE
Ac*cli"mate (#; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acclimated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acclimating.] Etym: [F. acclimater; à (l. ad) + climat climate. See
Climate.]

Defn: To habituate to a climate not native; to acclimatize. J. H.
Newman.

ACCLIMATEMENT
Ac*cli"mate*ment, n.

Defn: Acclimation. [R.]

ACCLIMATION
Ac`cli*ma"tion, n.

Defn: The process of becoming, or the state of being, acclimated, or
habituated to a new climate; acclimatization.

ACCLIMATIZABLE
Ac*cli"ma*ti`za*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being acclimatized.

ACCLIMATIZATION
Ac*cli"ma*ti*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of acclimatizing; the process of inuring to a new
climate, or the state of being so inured. Darwin.

ACCLIMATIZE
Ac*cli"ma*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acclimatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acclimatizing.]

Defn: To inure or habituate to a climate different from that which is
natural; to adapt to the peculiarities of a foreign or strange
climate; said of man, the inferior animals, or plants.

ACCLIMATURE
Ac*cli"ma*ture (#; 135), n.

Defn: The act of acclimating, or the state of being acclimated. [R.]
Caldwell.

ACCLIVE
Ac*clive", a.

Defn: Acclivous. [Obs.]

ACCLIVITOUS
Ac*cliv"i*tous, a.

Defn: Acclivous. I. Taylor.

ACCLIVITOUS
Ac*cliv"i*tous, a.

Defn: Acclivous.  I. Taylor.

ACCLIVITY
Ac*cliv"i*ty, n.; pl. Acclivities. Etym: [L. acclivitas, fr.
acclivis, acclivus, ascending; ad + clivus a hill, slope, fr. root
kli to lean. See Lean.]

Defn: A slope or inclination of the earth, as the side of a hill,
considered as ascending, in opposition to declivity, or descending;
an upward slope; ascent.

ACCLIVOUS
Ac*cli"vous (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. acclivis and acclivus.]

Defn: Sloping upward; rising as a hillside; -- opposed to declivous.

ACCLOY
Ac*cloy", v. t. Etym: [OF. encloyer, encloer, F. enclouer, to drive
in a nail, fr. L. in + clavus nail.]

Defn: To fill to satiety; to stuff full; to clog; to overload; to
burden. See Cloy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACCOAST
Ac*coast", v. t. & i. Etym: [See Accost, Coast.]

Defn: To lie or sail along the coast or side of; to accost. [Obs.]
Whether high towering or accosting low. Spenser.

ACCOIL
Ac*coil", v. t. Etym: [OE. acoillir to receive, F. accueillir; L. ad
+ colligere to collect. See Coil.]

1. To gather together; to collect. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To coil together. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

ACCOLADE
Ac`co*lade" (#; 277), n. Etym: [F. accolade, It. accolata, fr.
accollare to embrace; L. ad + collum neck.]

1. A ceremony formerly used in conferring knighthood, consisting am
embrace, and a slight blow on the shoulders with the flat blade of a
sword.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A brace used to join two or more staves.

ACCOMBINATION
Ac*com*bi*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. ad + E. combination.]

Defn: A combining together. [R.]

ACCOMMODABLE
Ac*com"mo*da*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. accommodable.]

Defn: That may be accommodated, fitted, or made to agree. [R.] I.
Watts.

ACCOMMODABLENESS
Ac*com"mo*dable*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being accommodable. [R.] Todd.

ACCOMMODATE
Ac*com"mo*date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accommodated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accommodating.] Etym: [L. accommodatus, p. p. of accommodare; ad +
commodare to make fit, help; con- + modus measure, proportion. See
Mode.]

1. To render fit, suitable, or correspondent; to adapt; to conform;
as, to accommodate ourselves to circumstances. "They accomodate their
counsels to his inclination." Addison.

2. To bring into agreement or harmony; to reconcile; to compose; to
adjust; to settle; as, to accommodate differences, a dispute, etc.

3. To furnish with something desired, needed, or convenient; to
favor; to oblige; as, to accommodate a friend with a loan or with
lodgings.

4. To show the correspondence of; to apply or make suit by analogy;
to adapt or fit, as teachings to accidental circumstances, statements
to facts, etc.; as, to accommodate prophecy to events.

Syn.
 -- To suit; adapt; conform; adjust; arrange.

ACCOMMODATE
Ac*com"mo*date, v. i.

Defn: To adapt one's self; to be conformable or adapted. [R.] Boyle.

ACCOMMODATE
Ac*com"mo*date, a. Etym: [L. accommodatus, p.p. of accommodare.]

Defn: Suitable; fit; adapted; as, means accommodate to end. [Archaic]
Tillotson.

ACCOMMODATELY
Ac*com"mo*date*ly, adv.

Defn: Suitably; fitly. [R.]

ACCOMMODATENESS
Ac*com"mo*date*ness, n.

Defn: Fitness. [R.]

ACCOMMODATING
Ac*com"mo*da`ting, a.

Defn: Affording, or disposed to afford, accommodation; obliging; as
an accommodating man, spirit, arrangement.

ACCOMMODATION
Ac*com`mo*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. accommodatio, fr. accommodare: cf. F.
accommodation.]

1. The act of fitting or adapting, or the state of being fitted or
adapted; adaptation; adjustment; -- followed by to. "The organization
of the body with accommodation to its functions." Sir M. Hale.

2. Willingness to accommodate; obligingness.

3. Whatever supplies a want or affords ease, refreshment, or
convenience; anything furnished which is desired or needful; -- often
in the plural; as, the accomodations -- that is, lodgings and food --
at an inn. Sir W. Scott.

4. An adjustment of differences; state of agreement; reconciliation;
settlement. "To come to terms of accommodation." Macaulay.

5. The application of a writer's language, on the ground of analogy,
to something not originally referred to or intended.
Many of those quotations from the Old Testament were probably
intended as nothing more than accommodations. Paley.

6. (Com.)
(a) A loan of money.
(b) An accommodation bill or note. Accommodation bill, or note
(Com.), a bill of exchange which a person accepts, or a note which a
person makes and delivers to another, not upon a consideration
received, but for the purpose of raising money on credit.
 -- Accommodation coach, or train, one running at moderate speed and
stopping at all or nearly all stations.
 -- Accommodation ladder (Naut.), a light ladder hung over the side
of a ship at the gangway, useful in ascending from, or descending to,
small boats.

ACCOMMODATOR
Ac*com"mo*da`tor, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, accommodates. Warburton.

ACCOMPANABLE
Ac*com"pa*na*ble, a.

Defn: Sociable. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

ACCOMPANIER
Ac*com"pa*ni*er, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, accompanies. Lamb.

ACCOMPANIMENT
Ac*com"pa*ni*ment, n. Etym: [F. accompagnement.]

Defn: That which accompanies; something that attends as a
circumstance, or which is added to give greater completeness to the
principal thing, or by way of ornament, or for the sake of symmetry.
Specifically: (Mus.)

Defn: A part performed by instruments, accompanying another part or
parts performed by voices; the subordinate part, or parts,
accompanying the voice or a principal instrument; also, the harmony
of a figured bass. P. Cyc.

ACCOMPANIST
Ac*com"pa*nist, n.

Defn: The performer in music who takes the accompanying part. Busby.

ACCOMPANY
Ac*com"pa*ny, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accompanied; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accompanying] Etym: [OF. aacompaignier, F. accompagner, to associate
with, fr. OF. compaign, compain, companion. See Company.]

1. To go with or attend as a companion or associate; to keep company
with; to go along with; -- followed by with or by; as, he accompanied
his speech with a bow.
The Persian dames, . . . In sumptuous cars, accompanied his march.
Glover.
They are never alone that are accompanied with noble thoughts. Sir P.
Sidney.
He was accompanied by two carts filled with wounded rebels. Macaulay.

2. To cohabit with. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

Syn.
 -- To attend; escort; go with.
 -- To Accompany, Attend, Escort. We accompany those with whom we go
as companions. The word imports an equality of station. We attend
those whom we wait upon or follow. The word conveys an idea of
subordination. We escort those whom we attend with a view to guard
and protect. A gentleman accompanies a friend to some public place;
he attends or escorts a lady.

ACCOMPANY
Ac*com"pa*ny, v. i.

1. To associate in a company; to keep company. [Obs.] Bacon.
Men say that they will drive away one another, . . . and not
accompany together. Holland.

2. To cohabit (with). [Obs.] Milton.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: To perform an accompanying part or parts in a composition.

ACCOMPLETIVE
Ac*com"ple*tive, a. Etym: [L. ad + complere, completum, to fill up.]

Defn: Tending to accomplish. [R.]

ACCOMPLICE
Ac*com"plice, n. Etym: [Ac- (perh. for the article a or for L. ad) +
E. complice. See Complice.]

1. A cooperator. [R.]
Success unto our valiant general, And happiness to his accomplices!
Shak.

2. (Law)

Defn: An associate in the commission of a crime; a participator in an
offense, whether a principal or an accessory. "And thou, the cursed
accomplice of his treason." Johnson.

Note: It is followed by with or of before a person and by in (or
sometimes of) before the crime; as, A was an accomplice with B in the
murder of C. Dryden uses it with to before a thing. "Suspected for
accomplice to the fire." Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Abettor; accessory; assistant; associate; confederate; coadjutor;
ally; promoter. See Abettor.

ACCOMPLICESHIP
Ac*com"plice*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being an accomplice. [R.] Sir H. Taylor.

ACCOMPLICITY
Ac`com*plic"i*ty, n.

Defn: The act or state of being an accomplice. [R.]

ACCOMPLISH
Ac*com"plish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accomplished, p. pr. & vb. n.
Accomplishing.] Etym: [OE. acomplissen, OF. accomplir, F. accomplir;
L. ad + complere to fill up, complete. See Complete, Finish.]

1. To complete, as time or distance.
That He would accomplish seventy years in the desolations of
Jerusalem. Dan. ix. 2.
He had accomplished half a league or more. Prescott.

2. To bring to an issue of full success; to effect; to perform; to
execute fully; to fulfill; as, to accomplish a design, an object, a
promise.
This that is written must yet be accomplished in me. Luke xxii. 37.

3. To equip or furnish thoroughly; hence, to complete in
acquirements; to render accomplished; to polish.
The armorers accomplishing the knights. Shak.
It [the moon] is fully accomplished for all those ends to which
Providence did appoint it. Wilkins.
These qualities . . . go to accomplish a perfect woman. Cowden
Clarke.

4. To gain; to obtain. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- To do; perform; fulfill; realize; effect; effectuate; complete;
consummate; execute; achieve; perfect; equip; furnish.
 -- To Accomplish, Effect, Execute, Achieve, Perform. These words
agree in the general idea of carrying out to some end proposed. To
accomplish (to fill up to the measure of the intention) generally
implies perseverance and skill; as, to accomplish a plan proposed by
one's self, an object, a design, an undertaking. "Thou shalt
accomplish my desire." 1 Kings v. 9.
He . . . expressed his desire to see a union accomplished between
England and Scotland. Macaulay.
To effect (to work out) is much like accomplish. It usually implies
some degree of difficulty contended with; as, he effected or
accomplished what he intended, his purpose, but little. "What he
decreed, he effected." Milton.
To work in close design by fraud or guile What force effected not.
Milton.
To execute (to follow out to the end, to carry out, or into effect)
implies a set mode of operation; as, to execute the laws or the
orders of another; to execute a work, a purpose, design, plan,
project. To perform is much like to do, though less generally
applied. It conveys a notion of protracted and methodical effort; as,
to perform a mission, a part, a task, a work. "Thou canst best
perform that office." Milton.
The Saints, like stars, around his seat Perform their courses still.
Keble.
To achieve (to come to the end or arrive at one's purpose) usually
implies some enterprise or undertaking of importance, difficulty, and
excellence.

ACCOMPLISHABLE
Ac*com"plish*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being accomplished; practicable. Carlyle.

ACCOMPLISHED
Ac*com"plished, a.

1. Completed; effected; established; as, an accomplished fact.

2. Complete in acquirements as the result usually of training; --
commonly in a good sense; as, an accomplished scholar, an
accomplished villain.
They . . . show themselves accomplished bees. Holland.
Daughter of God and man, accomplished Eve. Milton.

ACCOMPLISHER
Ac*com"plish*er, n.

Defn: One who accomplishes.

ACCOMPLISHMENT
Ac*com"plish*ment, n. Etym: [F. accomplissement, fr. accomplir.]

1. The act of accomplishing; entire performance; completion;
fulfillment; as, the accomplishment of an enterprise, of a prophecy,
etc.

2. That which completes, perfects, or equips thoroughly; acquirement;
attainment; that which constitutes excellence of mind, or elegance of
manners, acquired by education or training. "My new accomplishment of
dancing." Churchill. "Accomplishments befitting a station."
Thackeray.
Accomplishments have taken virtue's place, And wisdom falls before
exterior grace. Cowper.

ACCOMPT
Ac*compt" (#; formerly #), n.

Defn: See Account.

Note: Accompt, accomptant, etc., are archaic forms.

ACCOMPTABLE
Ac*compt"a*ble, a.

Defn: See Accountable.

ACCOMPTANT
Ac*compt"ant, n.

Defn: See Accountant.

ACCORD
Ac*cord", n. Etym: [OE. acord, accord, OF. acort, acorde, F. accord,
fr. OF. acorder, F. accorder. See Accord, v. t.]

1. Agreement or concurrence of opinion, will, or action; harmony of
mind; consent; assent.
A mediator of an accord and peace between them. Bacon.
These all continued with one accord in prayer. Acts i. 14.

2. Harmony of sounds; agreement in pitch and tone; concord; as, the
accord of tones.
Those sweet accords are even the angels' lays. Sir J. Davies.

3. Agreement, harmony, or just correspondence of things; as, the
accord of light and shade in painting.

4. Voluntary or spontaneous motion or impulse to act; -- preceded by
own; as, of one's own accord.
That which groweth of its own accord of thy harvest thou shalt not
reap. Lev. xxv. 5.
Of his own accord he went unto you. 2 Cor. vii. 17.

5. (Law)

Defn: An agreement between parties in controversy, by which
satisfaction for an injury is stipulated, and which, when executed,
bars a suit. Blackstone. With one accord, with unanimity.
They rushed with one accord into the theater. Acts xix. 29.

ACCORD
Ac*cord", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accorded; p. pr. & vb. n. According.]
Etym: [OE. acorden, accorden, OF. acorder, F. accorder, fr. LL.
accordare; L. ad + cor, cordis, heart. Cf. Concord, Discord, and see
Heart.]

1. To make to agree or correspond; to suit one thing to another; to
adjust; -- followed by to. [R.]
Her hands accorded the lute's music to the voice. Sidney.

2. To bring to an agreement, as persons; to reconcile; to settle,
adjust, harmonize, or compose, as things; as, to accord suits or
controversies.
When they were accorded from the fray. Spenser.
All which particulars, being confessedly knotty and difficult can
never be accorded but by a competent stock of critical learning.
South.

3. To grant as suitable or proper; to concede; to award; as, to
accord to one due praise. "According his desire." Spenser.

ACCORD
Ac*cord", v. i.

1. To agree; to correspond; to be in harmony; -- followed by with,
formerly also by to; as, his disposition accords with his looks.
My heart accordeth with my tongue. Shak.
Thy actions to thy words accord. Milton.

2. To agree in pitch and tone.

ACCORDABLE
Ac*cord"a*ble, a. Etym: [OF. acordable, F. accordable.]

1. Agreeing. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Reconcilable; in accordance.

ACCORDANCE
Ac*cord"ance, n. Etym: [OF. acordance.]

Defn: Agreement; harmony; conformity. "In strict accordance with the
law." Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Harmony; unison; coincidence.

ACCORDANCY
Ac*cord"an*cy, n.

Defn: Accordance. [R.] Paley.

ACCORDANT
Ac*cord"ant, a. Etym: [OF. acordant, F. accordant.]

Defn: Agreeing; consonant; harmonious; corresponding; conformable; --
followed by with or to.
Strictly accordant with true morality. Darwin.
And now his voice accordant to the string. Coldsmith.

ACCORDANTLY
Ac*cord"ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In accordance or agreement; agreeably; conformably; -- followed
by with or to.

ACCORDER
Ac*cord"er, n.

Defn: One who accords, assents, or concedes. [R.]

ACCORDING
Ac*cord"ing, p. a.

Defn: Agreeing; in agreement or harmony; harmonious. "This according
voice of national wisdom." Burke. "Mind and soul according well."
Tennyson.
According to him, every person was to be bought. Macaulay.
Our zeal should be according to knowledge. Sprat.

Note: According to has been called a prepositional phrase, but
strictly speaking, according is a participle in the sense of
agreeing, acceding, and to alone is the preposition. According as,
precisely as; the same as; corresponding to the way in which.
According as is an adverbial phrase, of which the propriety has been
doubted; but good usage sanctions it. See According, adv.
Is all things well, According as I gave directions Shak.
The land which the Lord will give you according as he hath promised.
Ex. xii. 25.
p. 13

ACCORDING
Ac*cord"ing, adv.

Defn: Accordingly; correspondingly. [Obs.] Shak.

ACCORDINGLY
Ac*cord"ing*ly, adv.

1. Agreeably; correspondingly; suitably; in a manner conformable.
Behold, and so proceed accordingly. Shak.

2. In natural sequence; consequently; so.

Syn.
 -- Consequently; therefore; wherefore; hence; so.
 -- Accordingly, Consequently, indicate a connection between two
things, the latter of which is done on account of the former.
Accordingly marks the connection as one of simple accordance or
congruity, leading naturally to the result which followed; as, he was
absent when I called, and I accordingly left my card; our
preparations were all finished, and we accordingly set sail.
Consequently all finished, and we accordingly set sail. Consequently
marks a closer connection, that of logical or causal sequence; as,
the papers were not ready, and consequently could not be signed.

ACCORDION
Ac*cor"di*on, n. Etym: [See Accord.] (Mus.)

Defn: A small, portable, keyed wind instrument, whose tones are
generated by play of the wind upon free metallic reeds.

ACCORDIONIST
Ac*cor"di*on*ist, n.

Defn: A player on the accordion.

ACCORDMENT
Ac*cord"ment, n. Etym: [OF. acordement. See Accord, v.]

Defn: Agreement; reconcilement. [Obs.] Gower.

ACCORPORATE
Ac*cor"po*rate, v. t. Etym: [L. accorporare; ad + corpus, corporis,
body.]

Defn: To unite; to attach; to incorporate. [Obs.] Milton.

ACCOST
Ac*cost" (#; 115), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accosted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accosting.] Etym: [F. accoster, LL. accostare to bring side by side;
L. ad + costa rib, side. See Coast, and cf. Accoast.]

1. To join side to side; to border; hence, to sail along the coast or
side of. [Obs.] "So much [of Lapland] as accosts the sea." Fuller.

2. To approach; to make up to. [Archaic] Shak.

3. To speak to first; to address; to greet. "Him, Satan thus
accosts." Milton.

ACCOST
Ac*cost", v. i.

Defn: To adjoin; to lie alongside. [Obs.] "The shores which to the
sea accost." Spenser.

ACCOST
Ac*cost", n.

Defn: Address; greeting. [R.] J. Morley.

ACCOSTABLE
Ac*cost"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. accostable.]

Defn: Approachable; affable. [R.] Hawthorne.

ACCOSTED
Ac*cost"ed, a. (Her.)

Defn: Supported on both sides by other charges; also, side by side.

ACCOUCHEMENT
Ac*couche"ment (#; 277), n. Etym: [F., fr. accoucher to be delivered
of a child, to aid in delivery, OF. acouchier orig. to lay down, put
to bed, go to bed; L. ad + collocare to lay, put, place. See
Collate.]

Defn: Delivery in childbed

ACCOUCHEUR
Ac*cou*cheur", n. Etym: [F., fr. accoucher. See Accouchement.]

Defn: A man who assists women in childbirth; a man midwife; an
obstetrician.

ACCOUCHEUSE
Ac*cou*cheuse", n. Etym: [F.., fem. of accoucher.]

Defn: A midwife. [Recent] Dunglison.

ACCOUNT
Ac*count", n. Etym: [OE. acount, account, accompt, OF. acont, fr.
aconter. See Account, v. t., Count, n., 1.]

1. A reckoning; computation; calculation; enumeration; a record of
some reckoning; as, the Julian account of time.
A beggarly account of empty boxes. Shak.

2. A registry of pecuniary transactions; a written or printed
statement of business dealings or debts and credits, and also of
other things subjected to a reckoning or review; as, to keep one's
account at the bank.

3. A statement in general of reasons, causes, grounds, etc.,
explanatory of some event; as, no satisfactory account has been given
of these phenomena. Hence, the word is often used simply for reason,
ground, consideration, motive, etc.; as, on no account, on every
account, on all accounts.

4. A statement of facts or occurrences; recital of transactions; a
relation or narrative; a report; a description; as, an account of a
battle. "A laudable account of the city of London." Howell.

5. A statement and explanation or vindication of one's conduct with
reference to judgment thereon.
Give an account of thy stewardship. Luke xvi. 2.

6. An estimate or estimation; valuation; judgment. "To stand high in
your account." Shak.

7. Importance; worth; value; advantage; profit. "Men of account."
Pope. "To turn to account." Shak. Account current, a running or
continued account between two or more parties, or a statement of the
particulars of such an account.
 -- In account with, in a relation requiring an account to be kept.
 -- On account of, for the sake of; by reason of; because of.
 -- On one's own account, for one's own interest or behalf.
 -- To make account, to have an opinion or expectation; to reckon.
[Obs.]
s other part . . . makes account to find no slender arguments for
this assertion out of those very scriptures which are commonly urged
against it. Milton.
-- To make account of, to hold in estimation; to esteem; as, he makes
small account of beauty.
 -- To take account of, or to take into account, to take into
consideration; to notice. "Of their doings, God takes no account."
Milton
.
 -- A writ of account (Law), a writ which the plaintiff brings
demanding that the defendant shall render his just account, or show
good cause to the contrary; -- called also an action of account.
Cowell.

Syn.
 -- Narrative; narration; relation; recital; description;
explanation; rehearsal.
 -- Account, Narrative, Narration, Recital. These words are applied
to different modes of rehearsing a series of events. Account turns
attention not so much to the speaker as to the fact related, and more
properly applies to the report of some single event, or a group of
incidents taken as whole; as, an account of a battle, of a shipwreck,
etc. A narrative is a continuous story of connected incidents, such
as one friend might tell to another; as, a narrative of the events of
a siege, a narrative of one's life, etc. Narration is usually the
same as narrative, but is sometimes used to describe the mode of
relating events; as, his powers of narration are uncommonly great.
Recital denotes a series of events drawn out into minute particulars,
usually expressing something which peculiarly interests the feelings
of the speaker; as, the recital of one's wrongs, disappointments,
sufferings, etc.

1. To reckon; to compute; to count. [Obs.]
The motion of . . . the sun whereby years are accounted. Sir T.
Browne.

2. To place to one's account; to put to the credit of; to assign; --
with to. [R.] Clarendon.

3. To value, estimate, or hold in opinion; to judge or consider; to
deem.
Accounting that God was able to raise him up. Heb. xi. 19.

4. To recount; to relate. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACCOUNT
Ac*count", v. i.

1. To render or receive an account or relation of particulars; as, an
officer must account with or to the treasurer for money received.

2. To render an account; to answer in judgment; -- with for; as, we
must account for the use of our opportunities.

3. To give a satisfactory reason; to tell the cause of; to explain; -
- with for; as, idleness accounts for poverty. To account of, to
esteem; to prize; to value. Now used only in the passive. "I account
of her beauty." Shak.
Newer was preaching more accounted of than in the sixteenth century.
Canon Robinson.

ACCOUNTABILITY
Ac*count"a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being accountable; liability to be called on to
render an account; accountableness. "The awful idea of
accountability." R. Hall.

ACCOUNTABLE
Ac*count"a*ble, a.

1. Liable to be called on to render an account; answerable; as, every
man is accountable to God for his conduct.

2. Capable of being accounted for; explicable. [R.]
True religion . . . intelligible, rational, and accountable, -- not a
burden but a privilege. B. Whichcote.

Syn.
 -- Amenable; responsible; liable; answerable.

ACCOUNTABLENESS
Ac*count"a*ble ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being accountable; accountability.

ACCOUNTABLY
Ac*count"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an accountable manner.

ACCOUNTANCY
Ac*count"an*cy, n.

Defn: The art or employment of an accountant.

ACCOUNTANT
Ac*count"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. accomptant, OF. acontant, p. pr.]

1. One who renders account; one accountable.

2. A reckoner.

3. One who is skilled in, keeps, or adjusts, accounts; an officer in
a public office, who has charge of the accounts. Accountatn general,
the head or superintending accountant in certain public offices.
Also, formerly, an officer in the English court of chancery who
received the moneys paid into the court, and deposited them in the
Bank of England.

ACCOUNTANT
Ac*count"ant, a.

Defn: Accountable. [Obs.] Shak.

ACCOUNTANTSHIP
Ac*count"ant*ship, n. Etym: [Accountant + -ship.]

Defn: The office or employment of an accountant.

ACCOUNT BOOK
Ac*count" book`.

Defn: A book in which accounts are kept. Swift.

ACCOUPLE
Ac*cou"ple, v. t. Etym: [OF. acopler, F. accoupler. See Couple.]

Defn: To join; to couple. [R.]
The Englishmen accoupled themselves with the Frenchmen. Hall.

ACCOUPLEMENT
Ac*cou"ple*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. accouplement.]

1. The act of coupling, or the state of being coupled; union. [R.]
Caxton.

2. That which couples, as a tie or brace. [R.]

ACCOURAGE
Ac*cour"age, v. t. Etym: [OF. acoragier; à (L. ad) + corage. See
Courage.]

Defn: To encourage. [Obs.]

ACCOURT
Ac*court", v. t. Etym: [Ac-, for L. ad. See Court.]

Defn: To treat courteously; to court. [Obs.] Spenser.

ACCOUTER; ACCOUTRE
Ac*cou"ter, Ac*cou"tre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accoutered or Accoutred;
p. pr. & vb. n. Accoutering or Accoutring.] Etym: [F. accouter, OF.
accoutrer, accoustrer; à (L. ad) + perh. LL. custor, for custos
guardian, sacristan (cf. Custody), or perh. akin to E. guilt.]

Defn: To furnish with dress, or equipments, esp. those for military
service; to equip; to attire; to array.
Bot accoutered like young men. Shak.
For this, in rags accoutered are they seen. Dryden.
Accoutered with his burden and his staff. Wordsworth.

ACCOUTERMENTS; ACCOUTREMENTS
Ac*cou"ter*ments, Ac*cou"tre*ments, n. pl. Etym: [F. accoutrement,
earlier also accoustrement, earlier also accoustrement. See
Accouter.]

Defn: Dress; trappings; equipment; specifically, the devices and
equipments worn by soldiers.
How gay with all the accouterments of war!

ACCOY
Ac*coy", v. t. Etym: [OF. acoyer; ac-, for L. ad. See Coy.]

1. To render quiet; to soothe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To subdue; to tame; to daunt. [Obs.]
Then is your careless courage accoyed. Spenser.

ACCREDIT
Ac*cred"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accredited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accrediting.] Etym: [F. accréditer; à (L. ad) + crédit credit. See
Credit.]

1. To put or bring into credit; to invest with credit or authority;
to sanction.
His censure will . . . accredit his praises. Cowper.
These reasons . . . which accredit and fortify mine opinion. Shelton.

2. To send with letters credential, as an ambassador, envoy, or
diplomatic agent; to authorize, as a messenger or delegate.
Beton . . . was accredited to the Court of France. Froude.

3. To believe; to credit; to put trust in.
The version of early Roman history which was accredited in the fifth
century. Sir G. C. Lewis.
He accredited and repeated stories of apparitions and witchcraft.
Southey.

4. To credit; to vouch for or consider (some one) as doing something,
or (something) as belonging to some one. To accredit (one) with
(something), to attribute something to him; as, Mr. Clay was
accredited with these views; they accredit him with a wise saying.

ACCREDITATION
Ac*cred`i*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of accrediting; as, letters of accreditation.

ACCREMENTITIAL
Ac`cre*men*ti"tial, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Pertaining to accremention.

ACCREMENTITION
Ac`cre*men*ti"tion, n. Etym: [See Accresce, Increment.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The process of generation by development of blastema, or
fission of cells, in which the new formation is in all respect like
the individual from which it proceeds.

ACCRESCE
Ac*cresce", v. i. Etym: [L. accrescere. See Accrue.]

1. To accrue. [R.]

2. To increase; to grow. [Obs.] Gillespie.

ACCRESCENCE
Ac*cres"cence, n. Etym: [LL. accrescentia.]

Defn: Continuous growth; an accretion. [R.]
The silent accrescence of belief from the unwatched depositions of a
general, never contradicted hearsy. Coleridge.

ACCRESCENT
Ac*cres"cent, a. Etym: [L. accrescens, -entis, p. pr. of accrescere;
ad + crescere to grow. See Crescent.]

1. Growing; increasing. Shuckford.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing larger after flowering. Gray.

ACCRETE
Ac*crete", v. i. Etym: [From L. accretus, p. p. of accrescere to
increase.]

1. To grow together.

2. To adhere; to grow (to); to be added; -- with to.

ACCRETE
Ac*crete", v. t.

Defn: To make adhere; to add. Earle.

ACCRETE
Ac*crete", a.

1. Characterized by accretion; made up; as, accrete matter.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Grown together. Gray.

ACCRETION
Ac*cre"tion, n. Etym: [L. accretio, fr. accrescere to increase. Cf.
Crescent, Increase, Accrue.]

1. The act of increasing by natural growth; esp. the increase of
organic bodies by the internal accession of parts; organic growth.
Arbuthnot.

2. The act of increasing, or the matter added, by an accession of
parts externally; an extraneous addition; as, an accretion of earth.
A mineral . . . augments not by grown, but by accretion. Owen.
To strip off all the subordinate parts of his as a later accretion.
Sir G. C. Lewis.

3. Concretion; coherence of separate particles; as, the accretion of
particles so as to form a solid mass.

4. A growing together of parts naturally separate, as of the fingers
toes. Dana.

5. (Law)
(a) The adhering of property to something else, by which the owner of
one thing becomes possessed of a right to another; generally, gain of
land by the washing up of sand or sail from the sea or a river, or by
a gradual recession of the water from the usual watermark.
(b) Gain to an heir or legatee, failure of a coheir to the same
succession, or a co-legatee of the same thing, to take his share.
Wharton. Kent.

ACCRETIVE
Ac*cre"tive, a.

Defn: Relating to accretion; increasing, or adding to, by growth.
Glanvill.

ACCRIMINATE
Ac*crim"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. ac- (for ad to) + criminari.]

Defn: To accuse of a crime. [Obs.] -- Ac*crim`i*na"tion, n. [Obs.]

ACCROACH
Ac*croach", v. t. Etym: [OE. acrochen, accrochen, to obtain, OF.
acrochier, F. accrocher; à (L. ad) + croc hook (E. crook).]

1. To hook, or draw to one's self as with a hook. [Obs.]

2. To usurp, as jurisdiction or royal prerogatives.
They had attempted to accroach to themselves royal power. Stubbs.

ACCROACHMENT
Ac*croach"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. accrochement.]

Defn: An encroachment; usurpation. [Obs.] Bailey.

ACCRUAL
Ac*cru"al, n.

Defn: Accrument. [R.]

ACCRUE
Ac*crue", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Accrued; p. pr. & vb. n. Accruing.]
Etym: [See Accrue, n., and cf. Accresce, Accrete.]

1. To increase; to augment.
And though power failed, her courage did accrue. Spenser.

2. To come to by way of increase; to arise or spring as a growth or
result; to be added as increase, profit, or damage, especially as the
produce of money lent. "Interest accrues to principal." Abbott.
The great and essential advantages accruing to society from the
freedom of the press. Junius.

ACCRUE
Ac*crue", n. Etym: [F. accrû, OF. acreü, p. p. of accroitre, OF.
acroistre to increase; L. ad + crescere to increase. Cf. Accretion,
Crew. See Crescent.]

Defn: Something that accrues; advantage accruing. [Obs.]

ACCRUER
Ac*cru"er, n. (Law)

Defn: The act of accruing; accretion; as, title by accruer.

ACCRUMENT
Ac*cru"ment, n.

Defn: The process of accruing, or that which has accrued; increase.
Jer. Taylor.

ACCUBATION
Ac`cu*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. accubatio, for accubatio, fr. accubare to
recline; ad + cubare to lie down. See Accumb.]

Defn: The act or posture of reclining on a couch, as practiced by the
ancients at meals.

ACCUMB
Ac*cumb", v. i. Etym: [L. accumbere; ad + cumbere (only in compounds)
to lie down.]

Defn: To recline, as at table. [Obs.] Bailey.

ACCUMBENCY
Ac*cum"ben*cy, n.

Defn: The state of being accumbent or reclining. [R.]

ACCUMBENT
Ac*cum"bent, a.

1. Leaning or reclining, as the ancients did at their meals.
The Roman.. accumbent posture in eating. Arbuthnot.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Lying against anything, as one part of a leaf against another
leaf. Gray.
Accumbent cotyledons have their edges placed against the caulicle.
Eaton.

ACCUMBENT
Ac*cum"bent, n.

Defn: One who reclines at table.

ACCUMBER
Ac*cum"ber, v. t.

Defn: To encumber. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACCUMULATE
Ac*cu"mu*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accumulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accumulating.] Etym: [L. accumulatus, p. p. of accumulare; ad +
cumulare to heap. See Cumulate.]

Defn: To heap up in a mass; to pile up; to collect or bring together;
to amass; as, to accumulate a sum of money.

Syn.
 -- To collect; pile up; store; amass; gather; aggregate; heap
together; hoard.

ACCUMULATE
Ac*cu"mu*late, v. i.

Defn: To grow or increase in quantity or number; to increase greatly.
Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth
accumulates, and men decay. Goldsmith.

ACCUMULATE
Ac*cu"mu*late, a. Etym: [L. accumulatus, p. p. of accumulare.]

Defn: Collected; accumulated. Bacon.

ACCUMULATION
Ac*cu`mu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. accumulatio; cf. F. accumulation.]

1. The act of accumulating, the state of being accumulated, or that
which is accumulated; as, an accumulation of earth, of sand, of
evils, of wealth, of honors.

2. (Law)

Defn: The concurrence of several titles to the same proof.
Accumulation of energy or power, the storing of energy by means of
weights lifted or masses put in motion; electricity stored.
 -- An accumulation of degrees (Eng. Univ.), the taking of several
together, or at smaller intervals than usual or than is allowed by
the rules.

ACCUMULATIVE
Ac*cu"mu*la*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by accumulation; serving to collect or amass;
cumulative; additional.
 -- Ac*cu"mu*la*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Ac*cu"mu*la*tive*ness, n.

ACCUMULATOR
Ac*cu"mu*la`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who, or that which, accumulates, collects, or amasses.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: An apparatus by means of which energy or power can be stored,
such as the cylinder or tank for storing water for hydraulic
elevators, the secondary or storage battery used for accumulating the
energy of electrical charges, etc.

3. A system of elastic springs for relieving the strain upon a rope,
as in deep-sea dredging.

ACCURACY
Ac"cu*ra*cy (#; 277), n. Etym: [See Accurate.]

Defn: The state of being accurate; freedom from mistakes, this
exemption arising from carefulness; exact conformity to truth, or to
a rule or model; precision; exactness; nicety; correctness; as, the
value of testimony depends on its accuracy.
The professed end [of logic] is to teach men to think, to judge, and
to reason, with precision and accuracy. Reid.
The accuracy with which the piston fits the sides. Lardner.

ACCURATE
Ac"cu*rate, a. Etym: [L. accuratus, p. p. and a., fr. accurare to
take care of; ad + curare to take care, cura care. See Cure.]

1. In exact or careful conformity to truth, or to some standard of
requirement, the result of care or pains; free from failure, error,
or defect; exact; as, an accurate calculator; an accurate measure;
accurate expression, knowledge, etc.

2. Precisely fixed; executed with care; careful. [Obs.]
Those conceive the celestial bodies have more accurate influences
upon these things below. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Correct; exact; just; nice; particular.
 -- Accurate, Correct, Exact, Precise. We speak of a thing as correct
with reference to some rule or standard of comparison; as, a correct
account, a correct likeness, a man of correct deportment. We speak of
a thing as accurate with reference to the care bestowed upon its
execution, and the increased correctness to be expected therefrom;
as, an accurate statement, an accurate detail of particulars. We
speak of a thing as exact with reference to that perfected state of a
thing in which there is no defect and no redundance; as, an exact
coincidence, the exact truth, an exact likeness. We speak of a thing
as precise when we think of it as strictly conformed to some rule or
model, as if cut down thereto; as a precise conformity instructions;
precisely right; he was very precise in giving his directions.

ACCURATELY
Ac"cu*rate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an accurate manner; exactly; precisely; without error or
defect.

ACCURATENESS
Ac"cu*rate*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being accurate; accuracy; exactness;
nicety; precision.

ACCURSE
Ac*curse", v. t. Etym: [OE. acursien, acorsien; pref. a + cursien to
curse. See Curse.]

Defn: To devote to destruction; to imprecate misery or evil upon; to
curse; to execrate; to anathematize.
And the city shall be accursed. Josh. vi. 17.
Thro' you, my life will be accurst. Tennyson.

ACCURSED; ACCURST
Ac*cursed", Ac*curst", p. p. & a.

Defn: Doomed to destruction or misery; cursed; hence, bad enough to
be under the curse; execrable; detestable; exceedingly hateful; --
as, an accursed deed. Shak.
 -- Ac*curs"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Ac*curs"ed*ness, n.

ACCUSABLE
Ac*cus"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. accusabilis: cf. F. accusable.]

Defn: Liable to be accused or censured; chargeable with a crime or
fault; blamable; -- with of.

ACCUSAL
Ac*cus"al, n.

Defn: Accusation. [R.] Byron.

ACCUSANT
Ac*cus"ant, n. Etym: [L. accusans, p. pr. of accusare: cf. F.
accusant.]

Defn: An accuser. Bp. Hall.

ACCUSATION
Ac`cu*sa"tion, n. Etym: [OF. acusation, F. accusation, L. accusatio,
fr. accusare. See Accuse.]

1. The act of accusing or charging with a crime or with a lighter
offense.
We come not by the way of accusation To taint that honor every good
tongue blesses. Shak.

2. That of which one is accused; the charge of an offense or crime,
or the declaration containing the charge.
[They] set up over his head his accusation. Matt. xxvii. 37.

Syn.
 -- Impeachment; crimination; censure; charge.

ACCUSATIVAL
Ac*cu`sa*ti"val, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the accusative case.

ACCUSATIVE
Ac*cu"sa*tive, a. Etym: [F. accusatif, L. accusativus (in sense 2),
fr. accusare. See Accuse.]

1. Producing accusations; accusatory. "This hath been a very
accusative age." Sir E. Dering.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Applied to the case (as the fourth case of Latin and Greek
nouns) which expresses the immediate object on which the action or
influence of a transitive verb terminates, or the immediate object of
motion or tendency to, expressed by a preposition. It corresponds to
the objective case in English.

ACCUSATIVE
Ac*cu"sa*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: The accusative case.

ACCUSATIVELY
Ac*cu"sa*tive*ly, adv.

1. In an accusative manner.

2. In relation to the accusative case in grammar.

ACCUSATORIAL
Ac*cu`sa*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Accusatory.

ACCUSATORIALLY
Ac*cu`sa*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By way accusation.

ACCUSATORY
Ac*cu"sa*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. accusatorius, fr. accusare.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, an accusation; as, an accusatory
libel. Grote.

ACCUSE
Ac*cuse", n.

Defn: Accusation. [Obs.] Shak.

ACCUSE
Ac*cuse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accused; p. pr. & vb. n. Accusing.]
Etym: [OF. acuser, F. accuser, L. accusare, to call to account,
accuse; ad + causa cause, lawsuit. Cf. Cause.]

1. To charge with, or declare to have committed, a crime or offense;
(Law)

Defn: to charge with an offense, judicially or by a public process; -
- with of; as, to accuse one of a high crime or misdemeanor.
Neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuse me. Acts
xxiv. 13.
We are accused of having persuaded Austria and Sardinia to lay down
their arms. Macaulay.

2. To charge with a fault; to blame; to censure.
Their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another.
Rom. ii. 15.

3. To betray; to show. Etym: [L.] Sir P. Sidney.

Syn.
 -- To charge; blame; censure; reproach; criminate; indict; impeach;
arraign.
 -- To Accuse, Charge, Impeach, Arraign. These words agree in
bringing home to a person the imputation of wrongdoing. To accuse is
a somewhat formal act, and is applied usually (though not
exclusively) to crimes; as, to accuse of treason. Charge is the most
generic. It may refer to a crime, a dereliction of duty, a fault,
etc.; more commonly it refers to moral delinquencies; as, to charge
with dishonesty or falsehood. To arraign is to bring (a person)
before a tribunal for trial; as, to arraign one before a court or at
the bar public opinion. To impeach is officially to charge with
misbehavior in office; as, to impeach a minister of high crimes. Both
impeach and arraign convey the idea of peculiar dignity or
impressiveness.

ACCUSED
Ac*cused", a.

Defn: Charged with offense; as, an accused person.

Note: Commonly used substantively; as, the accused, one charged with
an offense; the defendant in a criminal case.

ACCUSEMENT
Ac*cuse"ment, n. Etym: [OF. acusement. See Accuse.]

Defn: Accusation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACCUSER
Ac*cus"er, n. Etym: [OE. acuser, accusour; cf. OF. acuseor, fr. L.
accusator, fr. accusare.]

Defn: One who accuses; one who brings a charge of crime or fault.

ACCUSINGLY
Ac*cus"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In an accusing manner.

ACCUSTOM
Ac*cus"tom, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accustomed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accustoming.] Etym: [OF. acostumer, acustumer, F. accoutumer; à (L.
ad) + OF. costume, F. coutume, custom. See Custom.]

Defn: To make familiar by use; to habituate, familiarize, or inure; -
- with to.
I shall always fear that he who accustoms himself to fraud in little
things, wants only opportunity to practice it in greater. Adventurer.

Syn.
 -- To habituate; inure; exercise; train.

ACCUSTOM
Ac*cus"tom, v. i.

1. To be wont. [Obs.] Carew.

2. To cohabit. [Obs.]
We with the best men accustom openly; you with the basest commit
private adulteries. Milton.

ACCUSTOM
Ac*cus"tom, n.

Defn: Custom. [Obs.] Milton.

ACCUSTOMABLE
Ac*cus"tom*a*ble, a.

Defn: Habitual; customary; wonted. "Accustomable goodness." Latimer.

ACCUSTOMABLY
Ac*cus"tom*a*bly, adv.

Defn: According to custom; ordinarily; customarily. Latimer.

ACCUSTOMANCE
Ac*cus"tom*ance, n. Etym: [OF. accoustumance, F. accoutumance.]

Defn: Custom; habitual use. [Obs.] Boyle.

ACCUSTOMARILY
Ac*cus"tom*a*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: Customarily. [Obs.]

ACCUSTOMARY
Ac*cus"tom*a*ry, a.

Defn: Usual; customary. [Archaic] Featley.

ACCUSTOMED
Ac*cus"tomed, a.

1. Familiar through use; usual; customary. "An accustomed action."
Shak.

2. Frequented by customers. [Obs.] "A well accustomed shop."
Smollett.

ACCUSTOMEDNESS
Ac*cus"tomed*ness, n.

Defn: Habituation.
Accustomedness to sin hardens the heart. Bp. Pearce.

ACE
Ace, n.; pl. Aces. Etym: [OE. as, F. as, fr. L. as, assis, unity,
copper coin, the unit of coinage. Cf. As.]

1. A unit; a single point or spot on a card or die; the card or die
so marked; as, the ace of diamonds.

2. Hence: A very small quantity or degree; a particle; an atom; a
jot.
I 'll not wag an ace further. Dryden.
To bate an ace, to make the least abatement. [Obs.] -- Within an ace
of, very near; on the point of. W. Irving.

ACELDAMA
A*cel"da*ma, n. Etym: [Gr. okel damo the field of blood.]

Defn: The potter's field, said to have lain south of Jerusalem,
purchased with the bribe which Judas took for betraying his Master,
and therefore called the field of blood. Fig.: A field of bloodshed.
The system of warfare . . . which had already converted immense
tracts into one universal aceldama. De Quincey.

ACENTRIC
A*cen"tric, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Not centered; without a center.

ACEPHAL
Ac"e*phal, n. Etym: [Gr. acéphale, LL. acephalus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Acephala.

ACEPHALA
A*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Acephal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: That division of the Mollusca which includes the bivalve
shells, like the clams and oysters; -- so called because they have no
evident head. Formerly the group included the Tunicata, Brachiopoda,
and sometimes the Bryozoa. See Mollusca.

ACEPHALAN
A*ceph"a*lan, n.

Defn: Same as Acephal.

ACEPHALAN
A*ceph"a*lan, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Acephala.

ACEPHALI
A*ceph"a*li, n. pl. Etym: [LL., pl. of acephalus. See Acephal.]

1. A fabulous people reported by ancient writers to have heads.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)
(a) A Christian sect without a leader.
(b) Bishops and certain clergymen not under regular diocesan control.

3. A class of levelers in the time of K. Henry I.

ACEPHALIST
A*ceph"a*list, n.

Defn: One who acknowledges no head or superior. Dr. Gauden.

ACEPHALOCYST
A*ceph"a*lo*cyst, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A larval entozoön in the form of a subglobular or oval vesicle,
or hy datid, filled with fluid, sometimes found in the tissues of man
and the lower animals; -- so called from the absence of a head or
visible organs on the vesicle. These cysts are the immature stages of
certain tapeworms. Also applied to similar cysts of different origin.

ACEPHALOCYSTIC
A*ceph`a*lo*cys"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the acephalocysts.

ACEPHALOUS
A*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [See Acephal.]

1. Headless.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without a distinct head; -- a term applied to bivalve mollusks.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the style spring from the base, instead of from the
apex, as is the case in certain ovaries.

4. Without a leader or chief.

5. Wanting the beginning.
A false or acephalous structure of sentence. De Quincey.

6. (Pros.)

Defn: Deficient and the beginning, as a line of poetry. Brande.

ACEQUIA
A*ce"qui*a, n. [Sp.]

Defn: A canal or trench for irrigating land. [Sp. Amer.]

ACERATE
Ac"er*ate, n. Etym: [See Aceric.] (Chem.)

Defn: A combination of aceric acid with a salifiable base.

ACERATE
Ac"er*ate, a.

Defn: Acerose; needle-shaped.

ACERB
A*cerb", a. Etym: [L. acerbus, fr. acer sharp: cf. F. acerbe. See
Acrid.]

Defn: Sour, bitter, and harsh to the taste, as unripe fruit; sharp
and harsh.

ACERBATE
A*cerb"ate, v. t. Etym: [L. acerbatus, p. p. of acerbare, fr.
acerbus.]

Defn: To sour; to imbitter; to irritate.

ACERBIC
A*cerb"ic, a.

Defn: Sour or severe.

ACERBITUDE
A*cerb"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. acerbitudo, fr. acerbus.]

Defn: Sourness and harshness. [Obs.] Bailey.

ACERBITY
A*cerb"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. acerbité, L. acerbitas, fr. acerbus. See
Acerb.]

1. Sourness of taste, with bitterness and astringency, like that of
unripe fruit.

2. Harshness, bitterness, or severity; as, acerbity of temper, of
language, of pain. Barrow.

ACERIC
A*cer"ic, a. Etym: [L. acer maple.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the maple; as, aceric acid.
Ure.

ACEROSE
Ac"er*ose`, a. Etym: [(a) L. acerosus chaffy, fr. acus, gen. aceris,
chaff; (b) as if fr. L. acus needle: cf. F. acéreux.] (Bot.)
(a) Having the nature of chaff; chaffy.
(b) Needle-shaped, having a sharp, rigid point, as the leaf of the
pine.

ACEROUS
Ac"er*ous, a.

Defn: Same as Acerose.

ACEROUS
Ac"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. &a; priv. + keras a horn.] (Zoöl.)
(a) Destitute of tentacles, as certain mollusks.
(b) Without antennæ, as some insects.

ACERVAL
A*cer"val, a. Etym: [L. acervalis, fr. acervus heap.]

Defn: Pertaining to a heap. [Obs.]

ACERVATE
A*cer"vate, v. t. Etym: [L. acervatus, p. p. of acervare to heap up,
fr. acervus heap.]

Defn: To heap up. [Obs.]

ACERVATE
A*cer"vate, a.

Defn: Heaped, or growing in heaps, or closely compacted clusters.

ACERVATION
Ac`er*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. acervatio.]

Defn: A heaping up; accumulation. [R.] Johnson.

ACERVATIVE
A*cer"va*tive, a.

Defn: Heaped up; tending to heap up.

ACERVOSE
A*cer"vose, a.

Defn: Full of heaps. [R.] Bailey.

ACERVULINE
A*cer"vu*line, a.

Defn: Resembling little heaps.

ACESCENCE; ACESCENCY
A*ces"cence, A*ces"cen*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. acescence. See Acescent.]

Defn: The quality of being acescent; the process of acetous
fermentation; a moderate degree of sourness. Johnson.

ACESCENT
A*ces"cent, a. Etym: [L. acescens, -entis, p. pr. of acescere to turn
sour; inchoative of acere to be sour: cf. F. acescent. See Acid.]

Defn: Turning sour; readily becoming tart or acid; slightly sour.
Faraday.

ACESCENT
A*ces"cent, n.

Defn: A substance liable to become sour.

ACETABLE
Ac"e*ta*ble, n.

Defn: An acetabulum; or about one eighth of a pint. [Obs.] Holland.

ACETABULAR
Ac`e*tab"u*lar, a.

Defn: Cup-shaped; saucer-shaped; acetabuliform.

ACETABULIFERA
Ac`e*tab`u*lif"e*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Acetabuliferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of Cephalopoda in which the arms are furnished
with cup-shaped suckers, as the cuttlefishes, squids, and octopus;
the Dibranchiata. See Cephalopoda.

ACETABULIFEROUS
Ac`e*tab`u*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. acetablum a little cup + -
ferous.]

Defn: Furnished with fleshy cups for adhering to bodies, as
cuttlefish, etc.

ACETABULIFORM
Ac`e*tab"u*li*form, a. Etym: [L. acetabulum + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a shallow; saucer-shaped; as, an acetabuliform
calyx. Gray.

ACETABULUM
Ac`e*tab"u*lum, n. Etym: [L., a little saucer for vinegar, fr. acetum
vinegar, fr. acere to be sour.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A vinegar cup; socket of the hip bone; a measure of about one
eighth of a pint, etc.

2. (Anat.)
(a) The bony cup which receives the head of the thigh bone.
(b) The cavity in which the leg of an insect is inserted at its
articulation with the body.
(c) A sucker of the sepia or cuttlefish and related animals.
(d) The large posterior sucker of the leeches.
(e) One of the lobes of the placenta in ruminating animals.

ACETAL
Ac"e*tal, n. Etym: [Acetic + alcohol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A limpid, colorless, inflammable liquid from the slow oxidation
of alcohol under the influence of platinum black.

ACETALDEHYDE
Ac`et*al"de*hyde, n.

Defn: Acetic aldehyde. See Aldehyde.

ACETAMIDE
Ac`et*am"ide, n. Etym: [Acetyl + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline solid, from ammonia by replacement of an
equivalent of hydrogen by acetyl.

ACETANILIDE
Ac`et*an"i*lide, n. Etym: [Acetyl + anilide.] (Med.)

Defn: A compound of aniline with acetyl, used to allay fever or pain;
-- called also antifebrine.

ACETARIOUS
Ac`e*ta"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. acetaria, n. pl., salad, fr. acetum
vinegar, fr. acere to be sour.]

Defn: Used in salads; as, acetarious plants.

ACETARY
Ac"e*ta*ry, n. Etym: [L. acetaria salad plants.]

Defn: An acid pulp in certain fruits, as the pear. Grew.

ACETATE
Ac"e*tate, n. Etym: [L. acetum vinegar, fr. acere to be sour.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A salt formed by the union of acetic acid with a base or
positive radical; as, acetate of lead, acetate of potash.

ACETATED
Ac"e*ta`ted, a.

Defn: Combined with acetic acid.

ACETIC
A*ce"tic (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. acetum vinegar, fr. acere to be
sour.] (Chem.)
(a) Of a pertaining to vinegar; producing vinegar; producing vinegar;
as, acetic fermentation.
(b) Pertaining to, containing, or derived from, acetyl, as acetic
ether, acetic acid. The latter is the acid to which the sour taste of
vinegar is due.

ACETIFICATION
A*cet`i*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act of making acetous or sour; the process of converting,
or of becoming converted, into vinegar.

ACETIFIER
A*cet"i*fi`er, n.

Defn: An apparatus for hastening acetification. Knight.

ACETIFY
A*cet"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acetified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acetifying.] Etym: [L. acetum vinegar + -fly.]

Defn: To convert into acid or vinegar.

ACETIFY
A*cet"i*fy, v. i.

Defn: To turn acid. Encyc. Dom. Econ.

ACETIMETER
Ac`e*tim"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. acetum vinegar + -meter: cf. F.
acétimètre.]

Defn: An instrument for estimating the amount of acetic acid in
vinegar or in any liquid containing acetic acid.

ACETIMETRY
Ac`e*tim"e*try, n.

Defn: The act or method of ascertaining the strength of vinegar, or
the proportion of acetic acid contained in it. Ure.

ACETIN
Ac"e*tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A combination of acetic acid with glycerin. Brande & C.

ACETIZE
Ac"e*tize, v. i.

Defn: To acetify. [R.]

ACETOL
Ac"e*tol, n.  [Acetic + -ol as in alcohol.] (Chem.)

Defn: Methyl ketol; also, any of various homologues of the same.

ACETOMETER
Ac`e*tom"e*ter, n.

Defn: Same as Acetimeter. Brande & C.

ACETONAEMIA; ACETONEMIA
Ac`e*to*næ"mi*a, Ac`e*to*ne"mi*a, n. [NL. See Acetone; Hæma-.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition characterized by the presence of acetone in
the blood, as in diabetes.

ACETONE
Ac"e*tone, n. Etym: [See Acetic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A volatile liquid consisting of three parts of carbon, six of
hydrogen, and one of oxygen; pyroacetic spirit, -- obtained by the
distillation of certain acetates, or by the destructive distillation
of citric acid, starch, sugar, or gum, with quicklime.

Note: The term in also applied to a number of bodies of similar
constitution, more frequently called ketones. See Ketone.

ACETONIC
Ac`e*ton"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to acetone; as, acetonic bodies.

ACETONURIA
Ac`e*to*nu"ri*a, n. [NL. See Acetone; Urine.] (Med.)

Defn: Excess of acetone in the urine, as in starvation or diabetes.

ACETOPHENONE
Ac`e*to*phe"none, n.  [Acetic + phenyl + one.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline ketone, CH3COC6H5, which may be obtained by the
dry distillation of a mixture of the calcium salts of acetic and
benzoic acids. It is used as a hypnotic under the name of hypnone.

ACETOSE
Ac"e*tose, a.

Defn: Sour like vinegar; acetous.

ACETOSITY
Ac`e*tos"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. acetositas. See Acetous.]

Defn: The quality of being acetous; sourness.

ACETOUS
A*ce"tous (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. acetum vinegar, fr. acere to be
sour.]

1. Having a sour taste; sour; acid. "An acetous spirit." Boyle. "A
liquid of an acetous kind." Bp. Lowth.

2. Causing, or connected with, acetification; as, acetous
fermentation. Acetous acid, a name formerly given to vinegar.

ACETYL
Ac"e*tyl, n. Etym: [L. acetum vinegar + Gr. -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A complex, hypothetical radical, composed of two parts of
carbon to three of hydrogen and one of oxygen. Its hydroxide is
acetic acid.

ACETYLENE
A*cet"y*lene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A gaseous compound of carbon and hydrogen, in the proportion of
two atoms of the former to two of the latter. It is a colorless gas,
with a peculiar, unpleasant odor, and is produced for use as an
illuminating gas in a number of ways, but chiefly by the action of
water on calcium carbide. Its light is very brilliant. Watts.

ACH; ACHE
Ach, Ache, n. Etym: [F. ache, L. apium parsley.]

Defn: A name given to several species of plants; as, smallage, wild
celery, parsley. [Obs.] Holland.

ACHAEAN; ACHAIAN
A*chæ"an, A*cha"ian a. Etym: [L. Achaeus, Achaius; Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Achaia in Greece; also, Grecian.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Achaia; a Greek.

ACHARNEMENT
A*char"ne*ment, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Savage fierceness; ferocity.

ACHATE
Ach"ate, n.

Defn: An agate. [Obs.] Evelyn.

ACHATE
A*chate", n. Etym: [F. achat purchase. See Cates.]

1. Purchase; bargaining. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. pl.

Defn: Provisions. Same as Cates. [Obs.] Spenser.

ACHATINA
Ach`a*ti"na, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of land snails, often large, common in the warm parts
of America and Africa.

ACHATOUR
A*cha*tour", n. Etym: [See Cater.]

Defn: Purveyor; acater. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACHE
Ache, n. Etym: [OE. ache, AS. æce, ece, fr. acan to ache. See Ache,
v. i.]

Defn: Continued pain, as distinguished from sudden twinges, or
spasmodic pain. "Such an ache in my bones." Shak.

Note: Often used in composition, as, a headache, an earache, a
toothache.

ACHE
Ache, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ached; p. pr. & vb. n. Aching.] Etym: [OE.
aken, AS. acan, both strong verbs, AS. acan, imp. oc, p. p. acen, to
ache; perh. orig. to drive, and akin to agent.]

Defn: To suffer pain; to have, or be in, pain, or in continued pain;
to be distressed. "My old bones ache." Shak.
The sins that in your conscience ache. Keble.

ACHEAN
A*che"an, a & n.

Defn: See Achæan, Achaian.

ACHENE; ACHENIUM
A*chene", A*che"ni*um n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A small, dry, indehiscent fruit, containing a single seed, as
in the buttercup; -- called a naked seed by the earlier botanists.
[Written also akene and achænium.]

ACHENIAL
A*che"ni*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an achene.

ACHERON
Ach"e*ron, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Myth.)

Defn: A river in the Nether World or infernal regions; also, the
infernal regions themselves. By some of the English poets it was
supposed to be a flaming lake or gulf. Shak.

ACHERONTIC
Ach`e*ron"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Acheron; infernal; hence, dismal, gloomy;
moribund.

A CHEVAL
A` che*val". [F., lit., on horseback.]

Defn: Astride; with a part on each side; -- used specif. in
designating the position of an army with the wings separated by some
line of demarcation, as a river or road.

A position à cheval on a river is not one which a general willingly
assumes.
Swinton.

ACHIEVABLE
A*chiev"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being achieved. Barrow.

ACHIEVANCE
A*chiev"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. achevance.]

Defn: Achievement. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

ACHIEVE
A*chieve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Achieved; p. pr. & vb. n. Achieving.]
Etym: [OE. acheven, OF. achever, achiever, F. achever, to finish; à
(L. ad) + OF. chief, F. chef, end, head, fr. L. caput head. See
Chief.]

1. To carry on to a final close; to bring out into a perfected state;
to accomplish; to perform; -- as, to achieve a feat, an exploit, an
enterprise.
Supposing faculties and powers to be the same, far more may be
achieved in any line by the aid of a capital, invigorating motive
than without it. I. Taylor.

2. To obtain, or gain, as the result of exertion; to succeed in
gaining; to win.
Some are born great, some achieve greatness. Shak.
Thou hast achieved our liberty. Milton.

Note: [[Obs]., with a material thing as the aim.]
Show all the spoils by valiant kings achieved. Prior.
He hath achieved a maid That paragons description. Shak.

3. To finish; to kill. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- To accomplish; effect; fulfill; complete; execute; perform;
realize; obtain. See Accomplish.

ACHIEVEMENT
A*chieve"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. achèvement, E. Hatchment.]

1. The act of achieving or performing; an obtaining by exertion;
successful performance; accomplishment; as, the achievement of his
object.

2. A great or heroic deed; something accomplished by valor, boldness,
or praiseworthy exertion; a feat.
[The exploits] of the ancient saints . . . do far surpass the most
famous achievements of pagan heroes. Barrow.
The highest achievements of the human intellect. Macaulay.

3. (Her.)

Defn: An escutcheon or ensign armorial; now generally applied to the
funeral shield commonly called hatchment. Cussans.

ACHIEVER
A*chiev"er, n.

Defn: One who achieves; a winner.

ACHILLEAN
Ach`il*le"an, a.

Defn: Resembling Achilles, the hero of the Iliad; invincible.

ACHILLES' TENDON
A*chil"les' ten"don, n. Etym: [L. Achillis tendo.] (Anat.)

Defn: The strong tendon formed of the united tendons of the large
muscles in the calf of the leg, an inserted into the bone of the
heel; -- so called from the mythological account of Achilles being
held by the heel when dipped in the River Styx.

ACHILOUS
A*chi"lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Without a lip.

ACHING
Ach"ing, a.

Defn: That aches; continuously painful. See Ache.
 -- Ach"ing*ly, adv.
The aching heart, the aching head. Longfellow.

ACHIOTE
A`chi*o"te, n. Etym: [Sp. achiote, fr. Indian achiotl.]

Defn: Seeds of the annotto tree; also, the coloring matter, annotto.

ACHLAMYDATE
A*chlam"y*date, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Not possessing a mantle; -- said of certain gastropods.

ACHLAMYDEOUS
Ach`la*myd"e*ous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Naked; having no floral envelope, neither calyx nor corolla.

ACHOLIA
A*cho"li*a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Deficiency or want of bile.

ACHOLOUS
Ach"o*lous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Lacking bile.

ACHROMATIC
Ach`ro*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. achromatique.]

1. (Opt.)

Defn: Free from color; transmitting light without decomposing it into
its primary colors.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Uncolored; not absorbing color from a fluid; -- said of tissue.
Achromatic lens (Opt.), a lens composed usually of two separate
lenses, a convex and concave, of substances having different
refractive and dispersive powers, as crown and flint glass, with the
curvatures so adjusted that the chromatic aberration produced by the
one is corrected by other, and light emerges from the compound lens
undecomposed.
 -- Achromatic prism. See Prism.
 -- Achromatic telescope, or microscope, one in which the chromatic
aberration is corrected, usually by means of a compound or achromatic
object glass, and which gives images free from extraneous color.

ACHROMATICALLY
Ach`ro*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an achromatic manner.

ACHROMATICITY
Ach`ro*ma*tic"i*ty, n.

Defn: Achromatism.

ACHROMATIN
A*chro"ma*tin, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Tissue which is not stained by fluid dyes. W. Flemming.

ACHROMATISM
A*chro"ma*tism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. achromatisme.]

Defn: The state or quality of being achromatic; as, the achromatism
of a lens; achromaticity. Nichol.

ACHROMATIZATION
A*chro`ma*ti*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. achromatisation.]

Defn: The act or process of achromatizing.

ACHROMATIZE
A*chro"ma*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Achromatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Achromatizing.] Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To deprive of color; to make achromatic.

ACHROMATOPSY
A*chro"ma*top"sy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Color blindness; inability to distinguish colors; Daltonism.

ACHROMATOUS
A*chro"ma*tous, a. [See Ahromatic.]

Defn: Lacking, or deficient in, color; as, achromatous blood.

ACHROMIC
A*chro"mic, a. [Gr.  colorless;  priv. +  color.]

Defn: Free from color; colorless; as, in Physiol. Chem., the achromic
point of a starch solution acted upon by an amylolytic enzyme is the
point at which it fails to give any color with iodine.

ACHRONIC
A*chron"ic, a.

Defn: See Acronyc.

ACHROODEXTRIN; ACHROOEDEXTRIN
Ach`ro*ö*dex"trin, n. Etym: [Gr. dextrin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Dextrin not colorable by iodine. See Dextrin.

ACHROOUS
Ach"ro*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Colorless; achromatic.

ACHYLOUS
A*chy"lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Without chyle.

ACHYMOUS
A*chy"mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Without chyme.

ACICULA
A*cic"u*la, n.; pl. Aciculæ. Etym: [L., a small needle, dimin. of
acus needle.] (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: One of the needlelike or bristlelike spines or prickles of some
animals and plants; also, a needlelike crystal.

ACICULAR
A*cic"u*lar, a.

Defn: Needle-shaped; slender like a needle or bristle, as some leaves
or crystals; also, having sharp points like needless. A*cic"u*lar*ly,
adv.

ACICULATE; ACICULATED
A*cic"u*late, A*cic"u*la"ted a. (Nat. Hist.)
(a) Furnished with aciculæ.
(b) Acicular.
(c) Marked with fine irregular streaks as if scratched by a needle.
Lindley.

ACICULIFORM
A*cic"u*li*form, a. Etym: [L. acicula needle + -form.]

Defn: Needle-shaped; acicular.

ACICULITE
A*cic"u*lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Needle ore. Brande & C.

ACID
Ac"id, a. Etym: [L. acidus sour, fr. the root ak to be sharp: cf. F.
acide. Cf. Acute.]

1. Sour, sharp, or biting to the taste; tart; having the taste of
vinegar: as, acid fruits or liquors. Also fig.: Sour-tempered.
He was stern and his face as acid as ever. A. Trollope.

2. Of or pertaining to an acid; as, acid reaction.

ACID
Ac"id, n.

1. A sour substance.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of compounds, generally but not always
distinguished by their sour taste, solubility in water, and reddening
of vegetable blue or violet colors. They are also characterized by
the power of destroying the distinctive properties of alkalies or
bases, combining with them to form salts, at the same time losing
their own peculiar properties. They all contain hydrogen, united with
a more negative element or radical, either alone, or more generally
with oxygen, and take their names from this negative element or
radical. Those which contain no oxygen are sometimes called hydracids
in distinction from the others which are called oxygen acids or
oxacids.

Note: In certain cases, sulphur, selenium, or tellurium may take the
place of oxygen, and the corresponding compounds are called
respectively sulphur acids or sulphacids, selenium acids, or
tellurium acids. When the hydrogen of an acid is replaced by a
positive element or radical, a salt is formed, and hence acids are
sometimes named as salts of hydrogen; as hydrogen nitrate for nitric
acid, hydrogen sulphate for sulphuric acid, etc. In the old chemistry
the name acid was applied to the oxides of the negative or
nonmetallic elements, now sometimes called anhydrides.

ACIDIC
A*cid"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Containing a high percentage of silica; -- opposed to basic. an
acidic solution.

ACIDIFEROUS
Ac`id*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. acidus sour + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing or yielding an acid.

ACIDIFIABLE
A*cid"i*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being acidified, or converted into an acid.

ACIDIFIC
Ac`id*if"ic, a.

Defn: Producing acidity; converting into an acid. Dana.

ACIDIFICATION
A*cid`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. acidification.]

Defn: The act or process of acidifying, or changing into an acid.

ACIDIFIER
A*cid"i*fi`er, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A simple or compound principle, whose presence is necessary to
produce acidity, as oxygen, chlorine, bromine, iodine, etc.

ACIDIFY
A*cid"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acidified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acidifying.] Etym: [L. acidus sour, acid + -fy: cf. F. acidifier.]

1. To make acid; to convert into an acid; as, to acidify sugar.

2. To sour; to imbitter.
His thin existence all acidified into rage. Carlyle.

ACIDIMETER
Ac`id*im"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. acidus acid + -meter.] (Chem.)

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the strength of acids. Ure.

ACIDIMETRY
Ac`id*im"e*try, n. Etym: [L. acidus acid + -metry.] (Chem.)

Defn: The measurement of the strength of acids, especially by a
chemical process based on the law of chemical combinations, or the
fact that, to produce a complete reaction, a certain definite weight
of reagent is required.
 -- Ac`id*i*met"ric*al, a.

ACIDITY
A*cid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. acidites, fr. acidus: cf. F. acidité. See
Acid.]

Defn: The quality of being sour; sourness; tartness; sharpness to the
taste; as, the acidity of lemon juice.

ACIDLY
Ac"id*ly, adv.

Defn: Sourly; tartly.

ACIDNESS
Ac"id*ness, n.

Defn: Acidity; sourness.

ACID PROCESS
Ac"id proc"ess. (Iron Metal.)

Defn: That variety of either the Bessemer or the open-hearth process
in which the converter or hearth is lined with acid, that is, highly
siliceous, material. Opposed to basic process.

ACIDULATE
A*cid"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acidulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acidulating.] Etym: [Cf. F. aciduler. See Acidulous.]

Defn: To make sour or acid in a moderate degree; to sour somewhat.
Arbuthnot.

ACIDULENT
A*cid"u*lent, a.

Defn: Having an acid quality; sour; acidulous. "With anxious,
acidulent face." Carlyle.

ACIDULOUS
A*cid"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. acidulus, dim. of acidus. See Acid.]

Defn: Slightly sour; sub-acid; sourish; as, an acidulous tincture. E.
Burke. Acidulous mineral waters, such as contain carbonic anhydride.

ACIERAGE
Ac`i*er*age, n. Etym: [F. aciérage, fr. acier steel.]

Defn: The process of coating the surface of a metal plate (as a
stereotype plate) with steellike iron by means of voltaic
electricity; steeling.

ACIFORM
Ac"i*form, a. Etym: [L. acus needle + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like a needle.

ACINACEOUS
Ac"i*na"ceous, a. Etym: [L. acinus a grape, grapestone.] (Bot.)

Defn: Containing seeds or stones of grapes, or grains like them.

ACINACES
A*cin"a*ces, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. (Anc. Hist.)

Defn: A short sword or saber.

ACINACIFORM
Ac`i*nac"i*form, a. Etym: [L. acinaces a short sword + -form: cf. F.
acinaciforme.] (Bot.)

Defn: Scimeter-shaped; as, an acinaciform leaf.

ACINESIA
Ac`i*ne"si*a, n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Akinesia.

ACINETAE
Ac`i*ne"tæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of suctorial Infusoria, which in the adult stage are
stationary. See Suctoria.

ACINETIFORM
Ac`i*net"i*form, a. Etym: [Acinetæ + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling the Acinetæ.

ACINIFORM
A*cin"i*form, a. Etym: [L. acinus a grape, grapestone + -form: cf. F.
acinoforme.]

1. Having the form of a cluster of grapes; clustered like grapes.

2. Full of small kernels like a grape.

ACINOSE; ACINOUS
Ac"i*nose`, Ac"i*nous a. Etym: [L. acinosus, fr. acinus grapestone.]

Defn: Consisting of acini, or minute granular concretions; as,
acinose or acinous glands. Kirwan.

ACINUS
Ac"i*nus, n.; pl. Acini. Etym: [L., grape, grapestone.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) One of the small grains or drupelets which make up some kinds of
fruit, as the blackberry, raspberry, etc.
(b) A grapestone.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the granular masses which constitute a racemose or
compound gland, as the pancreas; also, one of the saccular recesses
in the lobules of a racemose gland. Quain.

ACIPENSER
Ac`i*pen"ser, n. Etym: [L., the name of a fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons, having the
body armed with bony scales, and the mouth on the under side of the
head. See Sturgeon.

ACIURGY
Ac"i*ur`gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Operative surgery.

ACKNOW
Ac*know", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + know; AS. oncnawan.]

1. To recognize. [Obs.] "You will not be acknown, sir." B. Jonson.

2. To acknowledge; to confess. [Obs.] Chaucer. To be acknown (often
with of or on), to acknowledge; to confess. [Obs.]
We say of a stubborn body that standeth still in the denying of his
fault, This man will not acknowledge his fault, or, He will not be
acknown of his fault. Sir T. More.

ACKNOWLEDGE
Ac*knowl"edge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acknowledged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acknowledging.] Etym: [Prob. fr. pref. a- + the verb knowledge. See
Knowledge, and ci. Acknow.]

1. To of or admit the knowledge of; to recognize as a fact or truth;
to declare one's belief in; as, to acknowledge the being of a God.
I acknowledge my transgressions. Ps. li. 3.
For ends generally acknowledged to be good. Macaulay.

2. To own or recognize in a particular character or relationship; to
admit the claims or authority of; to give recognition to.
In all thy ways acknowledge Him. Prov. iii. 6.
By my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee. Shak.

3. To own with gratitude or as a benefit or an obligation; as, to
acknowledge a favor, the receipt of a letter.
They his gifts acknowledged none. Milton.

4. To own as genuine; to assent to, as a legal instrument, to give it
validity; to avow or admit in legal form; as, to acknowledgea deed.

Syn.
 -- To avow; proclaim; recognize; own; admit; allow; concede;
confess.
 -- Acknowledge, Recognize. Acknowledge is opposed to keep back, or
conceal, and supposes that something had been previously known to us
(though perhaps not to others) which we now feel bound to lay open or
make public. Thus, a man acknowledges a secret marriage; one who has
done wrong acknowledges his fault; and author acknowledges his
obligation to those who have aided him; we acknowledge our ignorance.
Recognize supposes that we have either forgotten or not had the
evidence of a thing distinctly before our minds, but that now we know
it (as it were) anew, or receive and admit in on the ground of the
evidence it brings. Thus, we recognize a friend after a long absence.
We recognize facts, principles, truths, etc., when their evidence is
brought up fresh to the mind; as, bad men usually recognize the
providence of God in seasons of danger. A foreign minister, consul,
or agent, of any kind, is recognized on the ground of his producing
satisfactory credentials. See also Confess.

ACKNOWLEDGEDLY
Ac*knowl"edged*ly, adv.

Defn: Confessedly.

ACKNOWLEDGER
Ac*knowl"edg*er, n.

Defn: One who acknowledges.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT
Ac*knowl"edg*ment, n.

1. The act of acknowledging; admission; avowal; owning; confession.
"An acknowledgment of fault." Froude.

2. The act of owning or recognized in a particular character or
relationship; recognition as regards the existence, authority, truth,
or genuineness.
Immediately upon the acknowledgment of the Christian faith, the
eunuch was baptized by Philip. Hooker.

3. The owning of a benefit received; courteous recognition;
expression of thanks. Shak.

4. Something given or done in return for a favor, message, etc.
Smollett.

5. A declaration or avowal of one's own act, to give it legal
validity; as, the acknowledgment of a deed before a proper officer.
Also, the certificate of the officer attesting such declaration.
Acknowledgment money, in some parts of England, a sum paid by
copyhold tenants, on the death of their landlords, as an
acknowledgment of their new lords. Cowell.

Syn.
 -- Confession; concession; recognition; admission; avowal;
recognizance.

ACLINIC
A*clin"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physics.)

Defn: Without inclination or dipping; -- said the magnetic needle
balances itself horizontally, having no dip. The aclinic line is also
termed the magnetic equator. Prof. August.

ACME
Ac"me, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. The top or highest point; the culmination.
The very acme and pitch of life for epic poetry. Pope.
The moment when a certain power reaches the acme of its supremacy. I.
Taylor.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The crisis or height of a disease.

3. Mature age; full bloom of life. B. Jonson.

ACNE
Ac"ne, n. Etym: [NL., prob. a corruption of Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A pustular affection of the skin, due to changes in the
sebaceous glands.

ACNODAL
Ac*no"dal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to acnodes.

ACNODE
Ac"node, n. Etym: [L. acus needle + E. node.] (Geom.)

Defn: An isolated point not upon a curve, but whose coördinates
satisfy the equation of the curve so that it is considered as
belonging to the curve.

ACOCK
A*cock", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + cock.]

Defn: In a cocked or turned up fashion.

ACOCKBILL
A*cock"bill`, adv. Etym: [Prefix a- + cock + bill: with bills cocked
up.] (Naut.)
(a) Hanging at the cathead, ready to let go, as an anchor.
(b) Topped up; having one yardarm higher than the other.

ACOLD
A*cold", a. Etym: [Prob. p. p. of OE. acolen to grow cold or cool,
AS. acolian to grow cold; pref. a- (cf. Goth. er-, orig. meaning out)
+ colian to cool. See Cool.]

Defn: Cold. [Obs.] "Poor Tom's acold." Shak.

ACOLOGIC
Ac`o*log"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to acology.

ACOLOGY
A*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: Materia medica; the science of remedies.

ACOLOTHIST
A*col"o*thist, n.

Defn: See Acolythist.

ACOLYCTINE
Ac`o*lyc"tine, n. Etym: [From the name of the plant.] (Chem.)

Defn: An organic base, in the form of a white powder, obtained from
Aconitum lycoctonum. Eng. Cyc.

ACOLYTE
Ac`o*lyte, n. Etym: [LL. acolythus, acoluthus, Gr. acolyte.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: One who has received the highest of the four minor orders in
the Catholic church, being ordained to carry the wine and water and
the lights at the Mass.

2. One who attends; an assistant. "With such chiefs, and with James
and John as acolytes." Motley.

ACOLYTH
Ac"o*lyth, n.

Defn: Same as Acolyte.

ACOLYTHIST
A*col"y*thist, n.

Defn: An acolyte. [Obs.]

ACONDDYLOSE; ACONDYLOUS
A*cond"dy*lose`, A*con"dy*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Being without joints; jointless.

ACONITAL
Ac`o*ni"tal, a.

Defn: Of the nature of aconite.

ACONITE
Ac"o*nite, n. Etym: [L. aconitum, Gr. aconit.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The herb wolfsbane, or monkshood; -- applied to any plant of
the genus Aconitum (tribe Hellebore), all the species of which are
poisonous.

2. An extract or tincture obtained from Aconitum napellus, used as a
poison and medicinally. Winter aconite, a plant (Eranthis hyemalis)
allied to the aconites.

ACONITIA
Ac`o*ni"ti*a, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Aconitine.

ACONITIC
Ac`o*nit"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to aconite.

ACONITINE
A*con"i*tine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An intensely poisonous alkaloid, extracted from aconite.

ACONITUM
Ac`o*ni"tum, n. Etym: [L. See Aconite.]

Defn: The poisonous herb aconite; also, an extract from it.
Strong As aconitum or rash gunpowder. Shak.

ACONTIA
A*con"ti*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Threadlike defensive organs, composed largely of nettling cells
(cnidæ), thrown out of the mouth or special pores of certain Actiniæ
when irritated.

ACONTIAS
A*con"ti*as, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Anciently, a snake, called dart snake; now, one of a genus of
reptiles closely allied to the lizards.

ACOPIC
A*cop"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. priv. + (Med.)

Defn: Relieving weariness; restorative.

ACORN
A"corn, n. Etym: [AS. æcern, fr. æcer field, acre; akin to D. aker
acorn, Ger. ecker, Icel. akarn, Dan. agern, Goth. akran fruit, akrs
field; -- orig. fruit of the field. See Acre.]

1. The fruit of the oak, being an oval nut growing in a woody cup or
cupule.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A cone-shaped piece of wood on the point of the spindle above
the vane, on the mast-head.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Acorn-shell.

ACORN CUP
A"corn cup.

Defn: The involucre or cup in which the acorn is fixed.

ACORNED
A"corned, a.

1. Furnished or loaded with acorns.

2. Fed or filled with acorns. [R.] Shak.

ACORN-SHELL
A"corn-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the sessile cirripeds; a barnacle of the genus Balanus.
See Barnacle.

ACOSMISM
A*cos"mism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A denial of the existence of the universe as distinct from God.

ACOSMIST
A*cos"mist, n. Etym: [See Acosmism.]

Defn: One who denies the existence of the universe, or of a universe
as distinct from God. G. H. Lewes.

ACOTYLEDON
A*cot`y*le"don (#; 277), n. Etym: [Gr. Cotyledon.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant which has no cotyledons, as the dodder and all
flowerless plants.

ACOTYLEDONOUS
A*cot`y*led"on*ous (#; 277), a.

Defn: Having no seed lobes, as the dodder; also applied to plants
which have no true seeds, as ferns, mosses, etc.

ACOUCHY
A*cou"chy, n. Etym: [F. acouchi, from the native name Guiana.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A small species of agouti (Dasyprocta acouchy).

ACOUMETER
A*cou"me*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Physics.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the acuteness of the sense of
hearing. Itard.

ACOUMETRY
A*cou"me*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -metry.]

Defn: The measuring of the power or extent of hearing.

ACOUSTIC
A*cous"tic (#; 277), a. Etym: [F. acoustique, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the sense of hearing, the organs of hearing, or
the science of sounds; auditory. Acoustic duct, the auditory duct, or
external passage of the ear.
 -- Acoustic telegraph, a telegraph making audible signals; a
telephone.
 -- Acoustic vessels, brazen tubes or vessels, shaped like a bell,
used in ancient theaters to propel the voices of the actors, so as to
render them audible to a great distance.

ACOUSTIC
A*cous"tic, n.

Defn: A medicine or agent to assist hearing.

ACOUSTICAL
A*cous"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to acoustics.

ACOUSTICALLY
A*cous"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In relation to sound or to hearing. Tyndall.

ACOUSTICIAN
Ac`ous*ti"cian, n.

Defn: One versed in acoustics. Tyndall.

ACOUSTICS
A*cous"tics (#; 277), n. Etym: [Names of sciences in -ics, as,
acoustics, mathematics, etc., are usually treated as singular. See -
ics.] (Physics.)

Defn: The science of sounds, teaching their nature, phenomena, and
laws.
Acoustics, then, or the science of sound, is a very considerable
branch of physics. Sir J. Herschel.

Note: The science is, by some writers, divided, into diacoustics,
which explains the properties of sounds coming directly from the ear;
and catacoustica, which treats of reflected sounds or echoes.

ACQUAINT
Ac*quaint", a. Etym: [OF. acoint. See Acquaint, v. t.]

Defn: Acquainted. [Obs.]

ACQUAINT
Ac*quaint", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acquainted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acquainting.] Etym: [OE. aqueinten, acointen, OF. acointier, LL.
adcognitare, fr. L. ad + cognitus, p. p. of cognoscere to know; con-
+ noscere to know. See Quaint, Know.]

1. To furnish or give experimental knowledge of; to make (one) to
know; to make familiar; -- followed by with.
Before a man can speak on any subject, it is necessary to be
acquainted with it. Locke.
A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Isa. liii. 3.

2. To communicate notice to; to inform; to make cognizant; --
followed by with (formerly, also, by of), or by that, introducing the
intelligence; as, to acquaint a friend with the particulars of an
act.
Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love. Shak.
I must acquaint you that I have received New dated letters from
Northumberland. Shak.

3. To familiarize; to accustom. [Obs.] Evelyn. To be acquainted with,
to be possessed of personal knowledge of; to be cognizant of; to be
more or less familiar with; to be on terms of social intercourse
with.

Syn.
 -- To inform; apprise; communicate; advise.

ACQUAINTABLE
Ac*quaint"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. acointable].

Defn: Easy to be acquainted with; affable. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

ACQUAINTANCE
Ac*quaint"ance, n. Etym: [OE. aqueintance, OF. acointance, fr.
acointier. See Acquaint.]

1. A state of being acquainted, or of having intimate, or more than
slight or superficial, knowledge; personal knowledge gained by
intercourse short of that of friendship or intimacy; as, I know the
man; but have no acquaintance with him.
Contract no friendship, or even acquaintance, with a guileful man.
Sir W. Jones.

2. A person or persons with whom one is acquainted.
Montgomery was an old acquaintance of Ferguson. Macaulay.

Note: In this sense the collective term acquaintance was formerly
both singular and plural, but it is now commonly singular, and has
the regular plural acquaintances. To be of acquaintance, to be
intimate.
 -- To take acquaintance of or with, to make the acquaintance of.
[Obs.]

Syn.
 -- Familiarity; intimacy; fellowship; knowledge.
 -- Acquaintance, Familiarity, Intimacy. These words mark different
degrees of closeness in social intercourse. Acquaintance arises from
occasional intercourse; as, our acquaintance has been a brief one. We
can speak of a slight or an intimate acquaintance. Familiarity is the
result of continued acquaintance. It springs from persons being
frequently together, so as to wear off all restraint and reserve; as,
the familiarity of old companions. Intimacy is the result of close
connection, and the freest interchange of thought; as, the intimacy
of established friendship.
Our admiration of a famous man lessens upon our nearer acquaintance
with him. Addison.
We contract at last such a familiarity with them as makes it
difficult and irksome for us to call off our minds. Atterbury.
It is in our power to confine our friendships and intimacies to men
of virtue. Rogers.

ACQUAINTANCESHIP
Ac*quaint"ance*ship, n.

Defn: A state of being acquainted; acquaintance. Southey.

ACQUAINTANT
Ac*quaint"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. acointant, p. pr.]

Defn: An acquaintance. [R.] Swift.

ACQUAINTED
Ac*quaint"ed, a.

Defn: Personally known; familiar. See To be acquainted with, under
Acquaint, v. t.

ACQUAINTEDNESS
Ac*quaint"ed*ness, n.

Defn: State of being acquainted; degree of acquaintance. [R.] Boyle.

ACQUEST
Ac*quest", n. Etym: [OF. aquest, F. acquêt, fr. LL. acquestum,
acquisitum, for L. acquisitum, p. p. (used substantively) of
acquirere to acquire. See Acquire.]

1. Acquisition; the thing gained. [R.] Bacon.

2. (Law)

Defn: Property acquired by purchase, gift, or otherwise than by
inheritance. Bouvier.

ACQUIESCE
Ac`qui*esce", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Acquiesced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acquiescing] Etym: [L. acquiescere; ad + quiescere to be quiet, fr.
quies rest: cf. F. acquiescer. See Quiet.]

1. To rest satisfied, or apparently satisfied, or to rest without
opposition and discontent (usually implying previous opposition or
discontent); to accept or consent by silence or by omitting to
object; -- followed by in, formerly also by with and to.
They were compelled to acquiesce in a government which they did not
regard as just. De Quincey.

2. To concur upon conviction; as, to acquiesce in an opinion; to
assent to; usually, to concur, not heartily but so far as to forbear
opposition.

Syn.
 -- To submit; comply; yield; assent; agree; consent; accede; concur;
conform; accept tacitly.

ACQUIESCENCE
Ac`qui*es"cence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. acquiescence.]

1. A silent or passive assent or submission, or a submission with
apparent content; -- distinguished from avowed consent on the one
hand, and on the other, from opposition or open discontent; quiet
satisfaction.

2. (Crim. Law)
(a) Submission to an injury by the party injured.
(b) Tacit concurrence in the action of another. Wharton. p. 17

ACQUIESCENCY
Ac`qui*es"cen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being acquiescent; acquiescence.

ACQUIESCENT
Ac`qui*es"cent, a. Etym: [L. acquiescens, -; p. pr.]

Defn: Resting satisfied or submissive; disposed tacitly to submit;
assentive; as, an acquiescent policy.

ACQUIESCENTLY
Ac`qui*es"cent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an acquiescent manner.

ACQUIET
Ac*qui"et, v. t. Etym: [LL. acquietare; L. ad + quies rest. See Quiet
and cf. Acquit.]

Defn: To quiet. [Obs.]
Acquiet his mind from stirring you against your own peace. Sir A.
Sherley.

ACQUIRABILITY
Ac*quir"a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being acquirable; attainableness. [R.] Paley.

ACQUIRABLE
Ac*quir"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being acquired.

ACQUIRE
Ac*quire", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acquired; p. pr. & vb. n. Acquiring.]
Etym: [L. acquirere, acquisitum; ad + quarere to seek for. In OE. was
a verb aqueren, fr. the same, through OF. aquerre. See Quest..]

Defn: To gain, usually by one's own exertions; to get as one's own;
as, to acquire a title, riches, knowledge, skill, good or bad habits.
No virtue is acquired in an instant, but step by step. Barrow.
Descent is the title whereby a man, on the death of his ancestor,
acquires his estate, by right of representation, as his heir at law.
Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- To obtain; gain; attain; procure; win; earn; secure. See Obtain.

ACQUIREMENT
Ac*quire"ment, n.

Defn: The act of acquiring, or that which is acquired; attainment.
"Rules for the acquirement of a taste." Addison.
His acquirements by industry were . . . enriched and enlarged by many
excellent endowments of nature. Hayward.

Syn.
 -- Acquisition, Acquirement. Acquirement is used in opposition to a
natural gift or talent; as, eloquence, and skill in music and
painting, are acquirements; genius is the gift or endowment of
nature. It denotes especially personal attainments, in opposition to
material or external things gained, which are more usually called
acquisitions; but this distinction is not always observed.

ACQUIRER
Ac*quir"er, n.

Defn: A person who acquires.

ACQUIRY
Ac*quir"y, n.

Defn: Acquirement. [Obs.] Barrow.

ACQUISITE
Ac"qui*site, a. Etym: [L. acquisitus, p. p. of acquirere. See
Acquire.]

Defn: Acquired. [Obs.] Burton.

ACQUISITION
Ac`qui*si"tion, n. Etym: [L. acquisitio, fr. acquirere: cf. F.
acquisition. See Acquire.]

1. The act or process of acquiring.
The acquisition or loss of a province. Macaulay.

2. The thing acquired or gained; an acquirement; a gain; as, learning
is an acquisition.

Syn.
 -- See Acquirement.

ACQUISITIVE
Ac*quis"i*tive, a.

1. Acquired. [Obs.]
He died not in his acquisitive, but in his native soil. Wotton.

2. Able or disposed to make acquisitions; acquiring; as, an
acquisitive person or disposition.

ACQUISITIVELY
Ac*quis"i*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In the way of acquisition.

ACQUISITIVENESS
Ac*quis"i*tive*ness, n.

1. The quality of being acquisitive; propensity to acquire property;
desire of possession.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: The faculty to which the phrenologists attribute the desire of
acquiring and possessing. Combe.

ACQUISITOR
Ac*quis"i*tor, n.

Defn: One who acquires.

ACQUIST
Ac*quist", n. Etym: [Cf. Acquest.]

Defn: Acquisition; gain. Milton.

ACQUIT
Ac*quit", p. p.

Defn: Acquitted; set free; rid of. [Archaic] Shak.

ACQUIT
Ac*quit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acquitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Acquitting.]
Etym: [OE. aquiten, OF. aquiter, F. acquitter; (L. ad) + OF. quiter,
F. quitter, to quit. See Quit, and cf. Acquiet.]

1. To discharge, as a claim or debt; to clear off; to pay off; to
requite.
A responsibility that can never be absolutely acquitted. I. Taylor.

2. To pay for; to atone for. [Obs.] Shak.

3. To set free, release or discharge from an obligation, duty,
liability, burden, or from an accusation or charge; -- now followed
by of before the charge, formerly by from; as, the jury acquitted the
prisoner; we acquit a man of evil intentions.

4. Reflexively: (a) To clear one's self.k. (b) To bear or conduct
one's self; to perform one's part; as, the soldier acquitted himself
well in battle; the orator acquitted himself very poorly.

Syn.
 -- To absolve; clear; exonerate; exonerate; exculpate; release;
discharge. See Absolve.

ACQUITMENT
Ac*quit"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. aquitement.]

Defn: Acquittal. [Obs.] Milton.

ACQUITTAL
Ac*quit"tal, n.

1. The act of acquitting; discharge from debt or obligation;
acquittance.

2. (Law)

Defn: A setting free, or deliverance from the charge of an offense,
by verdict of a jury or sentence of a court. Bouvier.

ACQUITTANCE
Ac*quit"tance, n. Etym: [OF. aquitance, fr. aquiter. See Acquit.]

1. The clearing off of debt or obligation; a release or discharge
from debt or other liability.

2. A writing which is evidence of a discharge; a receipt in full,
which bars a further demand.
You can produce acquittances For such a sum, from special officers.
Shak.

ACQUITTANCE
Ac*quit"tance, v. t.

Defn: To acquit. [Obs.] Shak.

ACQUITTER
Ac*quit"ter, n.

Defn: One who acquits or releases.

ACRANIA
A*cra"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: Partial or total absence of the skull.

2. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lowest group of Vertebrata, including the amphioxus, in
which no skull exists.

ACRANIAL
A*cra"ni*al, a.

Defn: Wanting a skull.

ACRASE; ACRAZE
A*crase", A*craze", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + crase; or cf. F. écraser
to crush. See Crase, Craze.]

1. To craze. [Obs.] Grafton.

2. To impair; to destroy. [Obs.] Hacket.

ACRASIA; ACRASY
A*cra"si*a, Ac"ra*sy n. Etym: [Gr. akrasia.]

Defn: Excess; intemperance. [Obs. except in Med.] Farindon.

ACRASPEDA
A*cras"pe*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of acalephs, including most of the larger jellyfishes;
the Discophora.

ACRE
A"cre, n. Etym: [OE. aker, AS. æcer; akin to OS. accar, OHG. achar,
Ger. acker, Icel. akr, Sw. åker, Dan. ager, Goth. akrs, L. ager, Gr.
ajra. *2, 206.]

1. Any field of arable or pasture land. [Obs.]

2. A piece of land, containing 160 square rods, or 4,840 square
yards, or 43,560 square feet. This is the English statute acre. That
of the United States is the same. The Scotch acre was about 1.26 of
the English, and the Irish 1.62 of the English.

Note: The acre was limited to its present definite quantity by
statutes of Edward I., Edward III., and Henry VIII. Broad acres, many
acres, much landed estate. [Rhetorical] -- God's acre, God's field;
the churchyard.
I like that ancient Saxon phrase, which calls The burial ground,
God's acre. Longfellow.

ACREABLE
A"cre*a*ble, a.

Defn: Of an acre; per acre; as, the acreable produce.

ACREAGE
A"cre*age, n.

Defn: Acres collectively; as, the acreage of a farm or a country.

ACRED
A"cred, a.

Defn: Possessing acres or landed property; -- used in composition;
as, large-acred men.

ACRID
Ac"rid, a. Etym: [L. acer sharp; prob. assimilated in form to acid.
See Eager.]

1. Sharp and harsh, or bitter and not, to the taste; pungent; as,
acrid salts.

2. Causing heat and irritation; corrosive; as, acrid secretions.

3. Caustic; bitter; bitterly irritating; as, acrid temper, mind,
writing. Acrid poison, a poison which irritates, corrodes, or burns
the parts to which it is applied.

ACRIDITY; ACRIDNESS
A*crid"i*ty, Ac"rid*ness n.

Defn: The quality of being acrid or pungent; irritant bitterness;
acrimony; as, the acridity of a plant, of a speech.

ACRIDLY
Ac"rid*ly, adv.

Defn: In an acid manner.

ACRIMONIOUS
Ac"ri*mo"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. acrimonious, F. acrimonieux.]

1. Acrid; corrosive; as, acrimonious gall. [Archaic] Harvey.

2. Caustic; bitter-tempered' sarcastic; as, acrimonious dispute,
language, temper.

ACRIMONIOUSLY
Ac`ri*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an acrimonious manner.

ACRIMONIOUSNESS
Ac`ri*mo"ni*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being acrimonious; asperity; acrimony.

ACRIMONY
Ac"ri*mo*ny, n.; pl. Acrimonies. Etym: [L. acrimonia, fr. acer,
sharp: cf. F. acrimonie.]

1. A quality of bodies which corrodes or destroys others; also, a
harsh or biting sharpness; as, the acrimony of the juices of certain
plants. [Archaic] Bacon.

2. Sharpness or severity, as of language or temper; irritating
bitterness of disposition or manners.
John the Baptist set himself with much acrimony and indignation to
baffle this senseless arrogant conceit of theirs. South.

Syn.
 -- Acrimony, Asperity, Harshness, Tartness. These words express
different degrees of angry feeling or language. Asperity and
harshness arise from angry feelings, connected with a disregard for
the feelings of others. Harshness usually denotes needless severity
or an undue measure of severity. Acrimony is a biting sharpness
produced by an imbittered spirit. Tartness denotes slight asperity
and implies some degree of intellectual readiness. Tartness of reply;
harshness of accusation; acrimony of invective.
In his official letters he expressed, with great acrimony, his
contempt for the king's character. Macaulay.
It is no very cynical asperity not to confess obligations where no
benefit has been received. Johnson.
A just reverence of mankind prevents the growth of harshness and
brutality. Shaftesbury.

ACRISIA; ACRISY
A*cris"i*a, Ac"ri*sy, n. Etym: [LL. acrisia, Gr.

1. Inability to judge.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Undecided character of a disease. [Obs.]

ACRITA
Ac"ri*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lowest groups of animals, in which no nervous system has
been observed.

ACRITAN
Ac"ri*tan, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Acrita.
 -- n. An individual of the Acrita.

ACRITE
Ac"rite, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Acritan. Owen.

ACRITICAL
A*crit"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Having no crisis; giving no indications of a crisis; as,
acritical symptoms, an acritical abscess.

ACRITOCHROMACY
Ac`ri*to*chro"ma*cy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Color blindness; achromatopsy.

ACRITUDE
Ac"ri*tude, n. Etym: [L. acritudo, from acer sharp.]

Defn: Acridity; pungency joined with heat. [Obs.]

ACRITY
Ac"ri*ty, n. Etym: [L. acritas, fr. acer sharp: cf. F. âcreté.]

Defn: Sharpness; keenness. [Obs.]

ACROAMATIC; ACROAMATICAL
Ac`ro*a*mat"ic, Ac`ro*a*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Communicated orally; oral; -- applied to the esoteric teachings
of Aristotle, those intended for his genuine disciples, in
distinction from his exoteric doctrines, which were adapted to
outsiders or the public generally. Hence: Abstruse; profound.

ACROATIC
Ac`ro*at"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Same as Acroamatic.

ACROBAT
Ac"ro*bat, n. Etym: [F. acrobate, fr. Gr.

Defn: One who practices rope dancing, high vaulting, or other daring
gymnastic feats.

ACROBATIC
Ac`ro*bat"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. acrobatique.]

Defn: Pertaining to an acrobat.
 -- Ac`ro*bat"ic*al*ly, adv.

ACROBATISM
Ac"ro*bat*ism, n.

Defn: Feats of the acrobat; daring gymnastic feats; high vaulting.

ACROCARPOUS
Ac`ro*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)
(a) Having a terminal fructification; having the fruit at the end of
the stalk.
(b) Having the fruit stalks at the end of a leafy stem, as in certain
mosses.

ACROCEPHALIC
Ac`ro*ce*phal"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Cephalic.]

Defn: Characterized by a high skull.

ACROCEPHALY
Ac`ro*ceph"a*ly, n.

Defn: Loftiness of skull.

ACROCERAUNIAN
Ac`ro*ce*rau"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. acroceraunius, fr. Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the high mountain range of "thunder-
smitten" peaks (now Kimara), between Epirus and Macedonia. Shelley.

ACRODACTYLUM
Ac`ro*dac"tyl*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The upper surface of the toes, individually.

ACRODONT
Ac"ro*dont, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of lizards having the teeth immovably united to
the top of the alveolar ridge.
 -- a. Of or pertaining to the acrodonts.

ACROGEN
Ac"ro*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the highest class of cryptograms, including the
ferns, etc. See Cryptogamia. The Age of Acrogens (Geol.), the age of
coal plants, or the carboniferous era.

ACROGENOUS
Ac*rog"e*nous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Increasing by growth from the extremity; as, an acrogenous
plant.

ACROLEIN
A*cro"le*in, n. Etym: [L. acer sharp + olere to smell.] (Chem.)

Defn: A limpid, colorless, highly volatile liquid, obtained by the
dehydration of glycerin, or the destructive distillation of neutral
fats containing glycerin. Its vapors are intensely irritating. Watts.

ACROLITH
Ac"ro*lith, n. Etym: [L. acrolthus, Gr. with the ends made of stone;
(Arch. & Sculp.)

Defn: A statue whose extremities are of stone, the trunk being
generally of wood. Elmes.

ACROLITHAN; ACROLITHIC
A*crol"i*than, Ac`ro*lith"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, an acrolith.

ACROMEGALY
Ac`ro*meg"a*ly, n. Etym: [NL. acromegalia, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Chronic enlargement of the extremities and face.

ACROMIAL
A*cro"mi*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. acromial.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the acromion. Dunglison.

ACROMION
A*cro"mi*on, n. Etym: [Gr. acromion.] (Anat.)

Defn: The outer extremity of the shoulder blade.

ACROMONOGRAMMATIC
Ac`ro*mon`o*gram*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having each verse begin with the same letter as that with which
the preceding verse ends.

ACRONYC; ACRONYCHAL
A*cron"yc, A*cron"ych*al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: Rising at sunset and setting at sunrise, as a star; -- opposed
to cosmical.

Note: The word is sometimes incorrectly written acronical,
achronychal, acronichal, and acronical.

ACRONYCALLY
A*cron"yc*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an acronycal manner as rising at the setting of the sun, and
vise versâ.

ACRONYCTOUS
Ac"ro*nyc"tous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: Acronycal.

ACROOK
A*crook", adv.

Defn: Crookedly. [R.] Udall.

ACROPETAL
A*crop"e*tal, a. Etym: [Gr. petere to seek.] (Bot.)

Defn: Developing from below towards the apex, or from the
circumference towards the center; centripetal; -- said of certain
inflorescence.

ACROPHONY; ACHROPHONY
A*croph"o*ny, A*chroph"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The use of a picture symbol of an object to represent
phonetically the initial sound of the name of the object.

ACROPHONY
A*croph"o*ny, n. [Gr. 'a`kros extreme +  sound.]

Defn: The use of a picture symbol of an object to represent
phonetically the initial sound of the name of the object.

ACROPODIUM
Ac`ro*po"di*um, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The entire upper surface of the foot.

ACROPOLIS
A*crop"o*lis, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The upper part, or the citadel, of a Grecian city; especially,
the citadel of Athens.

ACROPOLITAN
Ac"ro*pol"i*tan, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an acropolis.

ACROSPIRE
Ac"ro*spire, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The sprout at the end of a seed when it begins to germinate;
the plumule in germination; -- so called from its spiral form.

ACROSPIRE
Ac"ro*spire, v. i.

Defn: To put forth the first sprout.

ACROSPORE
Ac"ro*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A spore borne at the extremity of the cells of fructification
in fungi.

ACROSPOROUS
Ac"ro*spor"ous, a.

Defn: Having acrospores.

ACROSS
A*cross" (#; 115), prep. Etym: [Pref. a- + cross: cf. F. en croix.
See Cross, n.]

Defn: From side to side; athwart; crosswise, or in a direction
opposed to the length; quite over; as, a bridge laid across a river.
Dryden. To come across, to come upon or meet incidentally. Freeman.
 -- To go across the country, to go by a direct course across a
region without following the roads.

ACROSS
A*cross", adv.

1. From side to side; crosswise; as, with arms folded across. Shak.

2. Obliquely; athwart; amiss; awry. [Obs.]
The squint-eyed Pharisees look across at all the actions of Christ.
Bp. Hall.

ACROSTIC
A*cros"tic, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A composition, usually in verse, in which the first or the last
letters of the lines, or certain other letters, taken in order, form
a name, word, phrase, or motto.

2. A Hebrew poem in which the lines or stanzas begin with the letters
of the alphabet in regular order (as Psalm cxix.). See Abecedarian.
Double acrostic, a species of enigma, in which words are to be
guessed whose initial and final letters form other words.

ACROSTIC; ACROSTICAL
A*cros"tic, A*cros"ti*cal, n.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, acrostics.

ACROSTICALLY
A*cros"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: After the manner of an acrostic.

ACROTARSIUM
Ac`ro*tar"si*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The instep or front of the tarsus.

ACROTELEUTIC
Ac`ro*te*leu"tic, n. Etym: [Gr. (Eccles.)

Defn: The end of a verse or psalm, or something added thereto, to be
sung by the people, by way of a response.

ACROTER
Ac"ro*ter, n. Etym: [F. acrotère. See Acroterium.] (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Acroterium.

ACROTERIAL
Ac`ro*te"ri*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an acroterium; as, ornaments. P. Cyc.

ACROTERIUM
Ac`ro*te`ri*um, n.; pl. Acrotplwia. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Arch.)
(a) One of the small pedestals, for statues or other ornaments,
placed on the apex and at the basal angles of a pediment. Acroteria
are also sometimes placed upon the gables in Gothic architecture. J.
H. Parker.
(b) One of the pedestals, for vases or statues, forming a part roof
balustrade.

ACROTIC
A*crot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to or affecting the surface.

ACROTISM
Ac"ro*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Lack or defect of pulsation.

ACROTOMOUS
A*crot"o*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Having a cleavage parallel with the base.

ACRYLIC
A*cryl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or containing acryl, the hypothetical radical of which
acrolein is the hydride; as, acrylic acid.

ACT
Act, n. Etym: [L. actus, fr. agere to drive, do: cf. F. acte. See
Agent.]

1. That which is done or doing; the exercise of power, or the effect,
of which power exerted is the cause; a performance; a deed.
That best portion of a good man's life, His little, nameless,
unremembered acts Of kindness and of love. Wordsworth.
Hence, in specific uses:
(a) The result of public deliberation; the decision or determination
of a legislative body, council, court of justice, etc.; a decree,
edit, law, judgment, resolve, award; as, an act of Parliament, or of
Congress.
(b) A formal solemn writing, expressing that something has been done.
Abbott.
(c) A performance of part of a play; one of the principal divisions
of a play or dramatic work in which a certain definite part of the
action is completed.
(d) A thesis maintained in public, in some English universities, by a
candidate for a degree, or to show the proficiency of a student.

2. A state of reality or real existence as opposed to a possibility
or possible existence. [Obs.]
The seeds of plants are not at first in act, but in possibility, what
they afterward grow to be. Hooker.

3. Process of doing; action. In act, in the very doing; on the point
of (doing). "In act to shoot." Dryden.
This woman was taken . . . in the very act. John viii. 4.
Act of attainder. (Law) See Attainder.
 -- Act of bankruptcy (Law), an act of a debtor which renders him
liable to be adjudged a bankrupt.
 -- Act of faith. (Ch. Hist.) See Auto-da-Fé.
 -- Act of God (Law), an inevitable accident; such extraordinary
interruption of the usual course of events as is not to be looked for
in advance, and against which ordinary prudence could not guard.
 -- Act of grace, an expression often used to designate an act
declaring pardon or amnesty to numerous offenders, as at the
beginning of a new reign.
 -- Act of indemnity, a statute passed for the protection of those
who have committed some illegal act subjecting them to penalties.
Abbott.
 -- Act in pais, a thing done out of court (anciently, in the
country), and not a matter of record.

Syn.
 -- See Action.

ACT
Act, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acted; p. pr. & vb. n. Acting.] Etym: [L.
actus, p. p. of agere to drive, lead, do; but influenced by E. act,
n.]

1. To move to action; to actuate; to animate. [Obs.]
Self-love, the spring of motion, acts the soul. Pope.

2. To perform; to execute; to do. [Archaic]
That we act our temporal affairs with a desire no greater than our
necessity. Jer. Taylor.
Industry doth beget by producing good habits, and facility of acting
things expedient for us to do. Barrow.
Uplifted hands that at convenient times Could act extortion and the
worst of crimes. Cowper.

3. To perform, as an actor; to represent dramatically on the stage.

4. To assume the office or character of; to play; to personate; as,
to act the hero.

5. To feign or counterfeit; to simulate.
With acted fear the villain thus pursued. Dryden.
To act a part, to sustain the part of one of the characters in a
play; hence, to simulate; to dissemble.
 -- To act the part of, to take the character of; to fulfill the
duties of.

ACT
Act, v. i.

1. To exert power; to produce an effect; as, the stomach acts upon
food.

2. To perform actions; to fulfill functions; to put forth energy; to
move, as opposed to remaining at rest; to carry into effect a
determination of the will.
He hangs between, in doubt to act or rest. Pope.

3. To behave or conduct, as in morals, private duties, or public
offices; to bear or deport one's self; as, we know not why he has
acted so.

4. To perform on the stage; to represent a character.
To show the world how Garrick did not act. Cowper.
To act as or for, to do the work of; to serve as.
 -- To act on, to regulate one's conduct according to.
 -- To act up to, to equal in action; to fulfill in practice; as, he
has acted up to his engagement or his advantages.

ACTABLE
Act"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being acted. Tennyson.

ACTINAL
Ac"ti*nal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the part of a radiate animal which contains the
mouth. L. Agassiz.

ACTINARIA
Ac`ti*na"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large division of Anthozoa, including those which have simple
tentacles and do not form stony corals. Sometimes, in a wider sense,
applied to all the Anthozoa, expert the Alcyonaria, whether forming
corals or not.

ACTING
Act"ing, a.

1. Operating in any way.

2. Doing duty for another; officiating; as, an superintendent.

ACTINIA
Ac*tin"i*a, n.; pl. L. Actiniæ, E. Actinias. Etym: [Latinized fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)
(a) An animal of the class Anthozoa, and family Actinidæ. From a
resemblance to flowers in form and color, they are often called
animal flowers and sea anemones. [See Polyp.].
(b) A genus in the family Actinidæ.

ACTINIC
Ac*tin"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to actinism; as, actinic rays.

ACTINIFORM
Ac*tin"i*form, a. Etym: [Gr. -form.]

Defn: Having a radiated form, like a sea anemone.

ACTINISM
Ac"tin*ism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The property of radiant energy (found chiefly in solar or
electric light) by which chemical changes are produced, as in
photography.

ACTINIUM
Ac*tin"i*um, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed metal, said by Phipson to be contained in commercial
zinc; -- so called because certain of its compounds are darkened by
exposure to light.

ACTINO-CHEMISTRY
Ac`ti*no-chem"is*try, n.

Defn: Chemistry in its relations to actinism. Draper.

ACTINOGRAM
Ac*tin"o*gram, n. [Gr. , , ray + -gram.]

Defn: A record made by the actinograph.

ACTINOGRAPH
Ac*tin"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring and recording the variations in the
actinic or chemical force of rays of light. Nichol.

ACTINOID
Ac"tin*oid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Having the form of rays; radiated, as an actinia.

ACTINOLITE
Ac*tin"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A bright green variety of amphibole occurring usually in
fibrous or columnar masses.

ACTINOLITIC
Ac`tin*o*lit"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Of the nature of, or containing, actinolite.

ACTINOLOGY
Ac`ti*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of rays of light, especially of the
actinic or chemical rays.

ACTINOMERE
Ac*tin"o*mere, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the radial segments composing the body of one of the
Coelenterata.

ACTINOMETER
Ac`ti*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter]
(a) An instrument for measuring the direct heating power of the sun's
rays.
(b) An instrument for measuring the actinic effect of rays of light.

ACTINOMETRIC
Ac`ti*no*met"ric, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the measurement of the intensity of the solar
rays, either (a) heating, or (b) actinic.

ACTINOMETRY
Ac`ti*nom"e*try, n.

1. The measurement of the force of solar radiation. Maury.

2. The measurement of the chemical or actinic energy of light. Abney.

ACTINOMYCOSIS
Ac`ti*no*my*co"sis, n. [NL.] (Med.)

Defn: A chronic infectious disease of cattle and man due to the
presence of Actinomyces bovis. It causes local suppurating tumors,
esp. about the jaw. Called also lumpy jaw or big jaw. --
Ac`ti*no*my*cot"ic (#), a.

ACTINOPHONE
Ac*tin"o*phone, n. [Gr. , , ray +  voice.] (Physics)

Defn: An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of the
actinic, or ultraviolet, rays.

ACTINOPHONIC
Ac*tin`o*phon"ic, a. (Physics)

Defn: Pertaining to, or causing the production of, sound by means of
the actinic, or ultraviolet, rays; as, actinophonic phenomena.

ACTINOPHOROUS
Ac`ti*noph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having straight projecting spines.

ACTINOSOME
Ac*tin"o*some, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The entire body of a coelenterate.

ACTINOST
Ac"tin*ost, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: (Anat.) One of the bones at the base of a paired fin of a fish.

ACTINOSTOME
Ac*tin"o*stome, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The mouth or anterior opening of a coelenterate animal.

ACTINOTROCHA
Ac`ti*not"ro*cha, n. pl. Etym: [NL.; Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar larval form of Phoronis, a genus of marine worms,
having a circle of ciliated tentacles.

ACTINOZOA
Ac"ti*no*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Coelenterata, comprising the Anthozoa Ctenophora.
The sea anemone, or actinia, is a familiar example.

ACTINOZOAL
Ac`ti*no*zo"al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Actinozoa.

ACTINOZOON; ACTINOZOOEN
Ac"ti*no*zo"ön, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Actinozoa.

ACTINULA
Ac*tin"u*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of embryo of certain hydroids (Tubularia), having a
stellate form.

ACTION
Ac"tion, n. Etym: [OF. action, L. actio, fr. agere to do. See Act.]

1. A process or condition of acting or moving, as opposed to rest;
the doing of something; exertion of power or force, as when one body
acts on another; the effect of power exerted on one body by another;
agency; activity; operation; as, the action of heat; a man of action.
One wise in council, one in action brave. Pope.

2. An act; a thing done; a deed; an enterprise. (pl.): Habitual
deeds; hence, conduct; behavior; demeanor.
The Lord is a Good of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed. 1
Sam. ii. 3.

3. The event or connected series of events, either real or imaginary,
forming the subject of a play, poem, or other composition; the
unfolding of the drama of events.

4. Movement; as, the horse has a spirited action.

5. (Mech.)

Defn: Effective motion; also, mechanism; as, the breech action of a
gun.

6. (Physiol.)

Defn: Any one of the active processes going on in an organism; the
performance of a function; as, the action of the heart, the muscles,
or the gastric juice.

7. (Orat.)

Defn: Gesticulation; the external deportment of the speaker, or the
suiting of his attitude, voice, gestures, and countenance, to the
subject, or to the feelings.

8. (Paint. & Sculp.)

Defn: The attitude or position of the several parts of the body as
expressive of the sentiment or passion depicted.

9. (Law)
(a) A suit or process, by which a demand is made of a right in a
court of justice; in a broad sense, a judicial proceeding for the
enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a
wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.
(b) A right of action; as, the law gives an action for every claim.

10. (Com.)

Defn: A share in the capital stock of a joint-stock company, or in
the public funds; hence, in the plural, equivalent to stocks. [A
Gallicism] [Obs.]
The Euripus of funds and actions. Burke.

11. An engagement between troops in war, whether on land or water; a
battle; a fight; as, a general action, a partial action.

12. (Music)

Defn: The mechanical contrivance by means of which the impulse of the
player's finger is transmitted to the strings of a pianoforte or to
the valve of an organ pipe. Grove. Chose in action. (Law) See Chose.
 -- Quantity of action (Physics), the product of the mass of a body
by the space it runs through, and its velocity.

Syn.
 -- Action, Act. In many cases action and act are synonymous; but
some distinction is observable. Action involves the mode or process
of acting, and is usually viewed as occupying some time in doing. Act
has more reference to the effect, or the operation as complete.
To poke the fire is an act, to reconcile friends who have quarreled
is a praiseworthy action. C. J. Smith.

ACTIONABLE
Ac"tion*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. actionabilis. See Action.]

Defn: That may be the subject of an action or suit at law; as, to
call a man a thief is actionable.

ACTIONABLY
Ac"tion*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an actionable manner.

ACTIONARY; ACTIONIST
Ac"tion*a*ry, Ac"tion*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. actionnaire.] (Com.)

Defn: A shareholder in joint-stock company. [Obs.]

ACTIONLESS
Ac"tion*less, a.

Defn: Void of action.

ACTIVATE
Ac"ti*vate, v. t.

Defn: To make active. [Obs.]

ACTIVE
Ac"tive, a. Etym: [F. actif, L. activus, fr. agere to act.]

1. Having the power or quality of acting; causing change;
communicating action or motion; acting; -- opposed to Ant: passive,
that receives; as, certain active principles; the powers of the mind.

2. Quick in physical movement; of an agile and vigorous body; nimble;
as, an active child or animal.
Active and nervous was his gait. Wordsworth.

3. In action; actually proceeding; working; in force; -- opposed to
quiescent, dormant, or extinct; as, active laws; active hostilities;
an active volcano.

4. Given to action; constantly engaged in action; energetic;
diligent; busy; -- opposed to dull, sluggish, indolent, or inert; as,
an active man of business; active mind; active zeal.

5. Requiring or implying action or exertion; -- opposed to Ant:
sedentary or to Ant: tranquil; as, active employment or service;
active scenes.

6. Given to action rather than contemplation; practical; operative; -
- opposed to Ant: speculative or Ant: theoretical; as, an active
rather than a speculative statesman.

7. Brisk; lively; as, an active demand for corn.

8. Implying or producing rapid action; as, an active disease; an
active remedy.

9. (Gram.)
(a) Applied to a form of the verb; -- opposed to Ant: passive. See
Active voice, under Voice.
(b) Applied to verbs which assert that the subject acts upon or
affects something else; transitive.
(c) Applied to all verbs that express action as distinct from mere
existence or state. Active capital, Active wealth, money, or property
that may readily be converted into money.

Syn.
 -- Agile; alert; brisk; vigorous; nimble; lively; quick; sprightly;
prompt; energetic.

ACTIVELY
Ac"tive*ly, adv.

1. In an active manner; nimbly; briskly; energetically; also, by
one's own action; voluntarily, not passively.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: In an active signification; as, a word used actively.

ACTIVENESS
Ac"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being active; nimbleness; quickness of motion;
activity.

ACTIVITY
Ac*tiv"i*ty, n.; pl. Activities. Etym: [Cf. F. activité, LL.
activitas.]

Defn: The state or quality of being active; nimbleness; agility;
vigorous action or operation; energy; active force; as, an increasing
variety of human activities. "The activity of toil." Palfrey.

Syn.
 -- Liveliness; briskness; quickness.

ACTLESS
Act"less, a.

Defn: Without action or spirit. [R.]

ACTON
Ac"ton, n. Etym: [OF. aketon, auqueton, F. hoqueton, a quilted
jacket, fr. Sp. alcoton, algodon, cotton. Cf. Cotton.]

Defn: A stuffed jacket worn under the mail, or (later) a jacket
plated with mail. [Spelled also hacqueton.] [Obs.] Halliwell. Sir W.
Scott.

ACTOR
Ac"tor, n. Etym: [L. actor, fr. agere to act.]

1. One who acts, or takes part in any affair; a doer.

2. A theatrical performer; a stageplayer.
After a well graced actor leaves the stage. Shak.

3. (Law)
(a) An advocate or proctor in civil courts or causes. Jacobs.
(b) One who institutes a suit; plaintiff or complainant.

ACTRESS
Ac`tress, n. Etym: [Cf. F. actrice.]

1. A female actor or doer. [Obs.] Cockeram.

2. A female stageplayer; a woman who acts a part.

ACTUAL
Ac"tu*al (#; 135), a. Etym: [OE. actuel, F. actuel, L. actualis, fr.
agere to do, act.]

1. Involving or comprising action; active. [Obs.]
Her walking and other actual performances. Shak.
Let your holy and pious intention be actual; that is . . . by a
special prayer or action, . . . given to God. Jer. Taylor.

2. Existing in act or reality; really acted or acting; in fact; real;
-- opposed to potential, possible, virtual, speculative, coceivable,
theoretical, or nominal; as, the actual cost of goods; the actual
case under discussion.

3. In action at the time being; now exiting; present; as the actual
situation of the country. Actual cautery. See under Cautery.
 -- Actual sin (Theol.), that kind of sin which is done by ourselves
in contradistinction to "original sin."

Syn.
 -- Real; genuine; positive; certain. See Real.

ACTUAL
Ac"tu*al, n. (Finance)

Defn: Something actually received; real, as distinct from estimated,
receipts. [Cant]
The accounts of revenues supplied . . . were not real receipts: not,
in financial language, "actuals," but only Egyptian budget estimates.
Fortnightly Review.

ACTUALIST
Ac"tu*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who deals with or considers actually existing facts and
conditions, rather than fancies or theories; -- opposed to idealist.
J. Grote.

ACTUALITY
Ac`tu*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Actualities.

Defn: The state of being actual; reality; as, the actuality of God's
nature. South.

ACTUALIZATION
Ac`tu*al*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: A making actual or really existent. [R.] Emerson.

ACTUALIZE
Ac"tu*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make actual; to realize in action. [R.] Coleridge.

ACTUALLY
Ac"tu*al*ly, adv.

1. Actively. [Obs.] "Neither actually . . . nor passively." Fuller.

2. In act or in fact; really; in truth; positively.

ACTUALNESS
Ac"tu*al*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being actual; actuality.

ACTUARIAL
Ac`tu*a"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to actuaries; as, the actuarial value of an
annuity.

ACTUARY
Ac"tu*a*ry, n.; pl. Actuaries. Etym: [L. actuarius copyist, clerk,
fr. actus, p. p. of agere to do, act.]

1. (Law)

Defn: A registar or clerk; -- used originally in courts of civil law
jurisdiction, but in Europe used for a clerk or registar generally.

2. The computing official of an insurance company; one whose
profession it is to calculate for insurance companies the risks and
premiums for life, fire, and other insurances.

ACTUATE
Ac"tu*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Actuated; p. pr. & vb. n. Actuating.]
Etym: [LL. actuatus, p. p. of actuare, fr. L. actus act.]

1. To put into action or motion; to move or incite to action; to
influence actively; to move as motives do; -- more commonly used of
persons.
Wings, which others were contriving to actuate by the perpetual
motion. Johnson.
Men of the greatest abilities are most fired with ambition; and, on
the contrary, mean and narrow minds are the least actuated by it.
Addison.

2. To carry out in practice; to perform. [Obs.] "To actuate what you
command." Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To move; impel; incite; rouse; instigate; animate.

ACTUATE
Ac"tu*ate, a. Etym: [LL. actuatus, p. p. of actuare.]

Defn: Put in action; actuated. [Obs.] South.

ACTUATION
Ac`tu*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. actuatio.]

Defn: A bringing into action; movement. Bp. Pearson.

ACTUATOR
Ac"tu*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who actuates, or puts into action. [R.] Melville.

ACTUOSE
Ac"tu*ose`, a. Etym: [L. actuosus.]

Defn: Very active. [Obs.]

ACTUOSITY
Ac`tu*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: Abundant activity. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

ACTURE
Ac"ture, n.

Defn: Action. [Obs.] Shak.

ACTURIENCE
Ac*tu"ri*ence, n. Etym: [A desid. of L. agere, actum, to act.]

Defn: Tendency or impulse to act. [R.]
Acturience, or desire of action, in one form or another, whether as
restlessness, ennui, dissatisfaction, or the imagination of something
desirable. J. Grote.

ACUATE
Ac"u*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. acus needle.]

Defn: To sharpen; to make pungent; to quicken. [Obs.] "[To] acuate
the blood." Harvey.

ACUATE
Ac"u*ate, a.

Defn: Sharpened; sharp-pointed.

ACUATION
Ac`u*a"tion, n.

Defn: Act of sharpening. [R.]

ACUITION
Ac`u*i"tion, n. Etym: [L. acutus, as if acuitus, p. p. of acuere to
sharpen.]

Defn: The act of sharpening. [Obs.]

ACUITY
A*cu"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. acuitas: cf. F. acuité.]

Defn: Sharpness or acuteness, as of a needle, wit, etc.

ACULEATE
A*cu"le*ate, a. Etym: [L. aculeatus, fr. aculeus, dim. of acus
needle.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a sting; covered with prickles; sharp like a prickle.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having prickles, or sharp points; beset with prickles.

3. Severe or stinging; incisive. [R.] Bacon.

ACULEATED
A*cu"le*a`ted, a.

Defn: Having a sharp point; armed with prickles; prickly; aculeate.

ACULEIFORM
A*cu"le*i*form, a.

Defn: Like a prickle.

ACULEOLATE
A*cu"le*o*late, a. Etym: [L. aculeolus little needle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having small prickles or sharp points. Gray.

ACULEOUS
A*cu"le*ous, a.

Defn: Aculeate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ACULEUS
A*cu"le*us, n.; pl. Aculei. Etym: [L., dim. of acus needle.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A prickle growing on the bark, as in some brambles and roses.
Lindley.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sting.

ACUMEN
A*cu"men, n. Etym: [L. acumen, fr. acuere to sharpen. Cf. Acute.]

Defn: Quickness of perception or discernment; penetration of mind;
the faculty of nice discrimination. Selden.

Syn.
 -- Sharpness; sagacity; keenness; shrewdness; acuteness.

ACUMINATE
A*cu"mi*nate, a. Etym: [L. acuminatus, p. p. of acuminare to sharpen,
fr. acumen. See Acumen.]

Defn: Tapering to a point; pointed; as, acuminate leaves, teeth, etc.

ACUMINATE
A*cu"mi*nate, v. t.

Defn: To render sharp or keen. [R.] "To acuminate even despair."
Cowper.

ACUMINATE
A*cu"mi*nate, v. i.

Defn: To end in, or come to, a sharp point. "Acuminating in a cone of
prelacy." Milton.

ACUMINATION
A*cu`mi*na"tion, n.

Defn: A sharpening; termination in a sharp point; a tapering point.
Bp. Pearson.

ACUMINOSE
A*cu"mi*nose`, a.

Defn: Terminating in a flat, narrow end. Lindley.

ACUMINOUS
A*cu"mi*nous, a.

Defn: Characterized by acumen; keen. Highmore.

ACUPRESSURE
Ac`u*pres"sure, n. Etym: [L. acus needle + premere, pressum, to
press.] (Surg.)

Defn: A mode of arresting hemorrhage resulting from wounds or
surgical operations, by passing under the divided vessel a needle,
the ends of which are left exposed externally on the cutaneous
surface. Simpson.

ACUPUNCTURATION
Ac`u*punc`tu*ra"tion, n.

Defn: See Acupuncture.

ACUPUNCTURE
Ac`u*punc"ture, n. Etym: [L. acus needle + punctura a pricking, fr.
pungere to prick: cf. F. acuponcture.]

Defn: Pricking with a needle; a needle prick. Specifically (Med.):

Defn: The insertion of needles into the living tissues for remedial
purposes.

ACUPUNCTURE
Ac`u*punc"ture, v. t.

Defn: To treat with acupuncture.

ACUSTUMAUNCE
A*cus"tum*aunce, n.

Defn: See Accustomance. [Obs.]

ACUTANGULAR
A*cut"an`gu*lar, a.

Defn: Acute-angled.

ACUTE
A*cute", a. Etym: [L. acutus, p. p. of acuere to sharpen, fr. a root
ak to be sharp. Cf. Ague, Cute, Edge.]

1. Sharp at the end; ending in a sharp point; pointed; -- opposed to
blunt or obtuse; as, an acute angle; an acute leaf.

2. Having nice discernment; perceiving or using minute distinctions;
penetrating; clever; shrewd; -- opposed to Ant: dull or Ant: stupid;
as, an acute observer; acute remarks, or reasoning.

3. Having nice or quick sensibility; susceptible to slight
impressions; acting keenly on the senses; sharp; keen; intense; as, a
man of acute eyesight, hearing, or feeling; acute pain or pleasure.

4. High, or shrill, in respect to some other sound; -- opposed to
grave or low; as, an acute tone or accent.

5. (Med.)

Defn: Attended with symptoms of some degree of severity, and coming
speedily to a crisis; -- opposed to chronic; as, an acute disease.
Acute angle (Geom.), an angle less than a right angle.

Syn.
 -- Subtile; ingenious; sharp; keen; penetrating; sagacious; sharp-
witted; shrewd; discerning; discriminating. See Subtile.

ACUTE
A*cute", v. t.

Defn: To give an acute sound to; as, he acutes his rising inflection
too much. [R.] Walker.

ACUTE-ANGLED
A*cute"-*an`gled, a.

Defn: Having acute angles; as, an acute-angled triangle, a triangle
with every one of its angles less than a right angle.

ACUTELY
A*cute"ly, adv.

Defn: In an acute manner; sharply; keenly; with nice discrimination.

ACUTENESS
A*cute"ness, n.

1. The quality of being acute or pointed; sharpness; as, the
acuteness of an angle.

2. The faculty of nice discernment or perception; acumen; keenness;
sharpness; sensitiveness; -- applied to the senses, or the
understanding. By acuteness of feeling, we perceive small objects or
slight impressions: by acuteness of intellect, we discern nice
distinctions.
Perhaps, also, he felt his professional acuteness interested in
bringing it to a successful close. Sir W. Scott.

3. Shrillness; high pitch; -- said of sounds.

4. (Med.)

Defn: Violence of a disease, which brings it speedily to a crisis.

Syn.
 -- Penetration; sagacity; keenness; ingenuity; shrewdness; subtlety;
sharp-wittedness.

ACUTIFOLIATE
A*cu`ti*fo"li*ate, a. Etym: [L. acutus sharp + folium leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having sharp-pointed leaves.

ACUTILOBATE
A*cu`ti*lo"bate, a. Etym: [L. acutus sharp + E. lobe.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having acute lobes, as some leaves.

ACUTORSION
Ac`u*tor"sion, n. [L. acus needle + torsion.] (Med.)

Defn: The twisting of an artery with a needle to arrest hemorrhage.

ACYCLIC
A*cyc"lic, a. [Pref. a- not + cyclic.]

Defn: Not cyclic; not disposed in cycles or whorls; as: (a) (Bot.)

Defn: Of a flower, having its parts inserted spirally on the
receptacle.
 (b) (Org. Chem.) Having an open-chain structure; aliphatic.

ACYL
Ac"yl, n.  [Acid + -yl.] (Org. Chem.)

Defn: An acid radical, as acetyl, malonyl, or benzoyl.

AD-
Ad-. Etym: [A Latin preposition, signifying to. See At.]

Defn: As a prefix ad- assumes the forms ac-, af-, ag-, al-, an-, ap-,
ar-, as-, at-, assimilating the d with the first letter of the word
to which ad- is prefixed. It remains unchanged before vowels, and
before d, h, j, m, v. Examples: adduce, adhere, adjacent, admit,
advent, accord, affect, aggregate, allude, annex, appear, etc. It
becomes ac- before qu, as in acquiesce.

ADACT
Ad*act", v. t. Etym: [L. adactus, p. p. of adigere.]

Defn: To compel; to drive. [Obs.] Fotherby.

ADACTYL; ADACTYLOUS
A*dac"tyl, A*dac"tyl*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) Without fingers or without toes.
(b) Without claws on the feet (of crustaceous animals).

ADAGE
Ad"age, n. Etym: [F. adage, fr. L. adagium; ad + the root of L. aio I
say.]

Defn: An old saying, which has obtained credit by long use; a
proverb.
Letting "I dare not" wait upon "I would," Like the poor cat i' the
adage. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Axiom; maxim; aphorism; proverb; saying; saw; apothegm. See
Axiom.

ADAGIAL
A*da"gi*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an adage; proverbial. "Adagial verse." Barrow.

ADAGIO
A*da"gio, a. & adv. Etym: [It. adagio; ad (L. ad) at + agio
convenience, leisure, ease. See Agio.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slow; slowly, leisurely, and gracefully. When repeated, adagio,
adagio, it directs the movement to be very slow.

ADAGIO
A*da"gio, n.

Defn: A piece of music in adagio time; a slow movement; as, an adagio
of Haydn.

ADAM
Ad"am, n.

1. The name given in the Bible to the first man, the progenitor of
the human race.

2. (As a symbol)

Defn: "Original sin;" human frailty.
And whipped the offending Adam out of him. Shak.
Adam's ale, water. [Coll.] -- Adam's apple.

1. (Bot.) (a) A species of banana (Musa paradisiaca). It attains a
height of twenty feet or more. Paxton]. (b) A species of lime (Citris
limetta).

2. The projection formed by the thyroid cartilage in the neck. It is
particularly prominent in males, and is so called from a notion that
it was caused by the forbidden fruit (an apple) sticking in the
throat of our first parent.
 -- Adam's flannel (Bot.), the mullein (Verbascum thapsus).
 -- Adam's needle (Bot.), the popular name of a genus (Yucca) of
liliaceous plants.

ADAMANT
Ad"a*mant, n. Etym: [OE. adamaunt, adamant, diamond, magnet, OF.
adamant, L. adamas, adamantis, the hardest metal, fr. Gr. adamare to
love, be attached to, the word meant also magnet, as in OF. and LL.
See Diamond, Tame.]

1. A stone imagined by some to be of impenetrable hardness; a name
given to the diamond and other substance of extreme hardness; but in
modern minerology it has no technical signification. It is now a
rhetorical or poetical name for the embodiment of impenetrable
hardness.
Opposed the rocky orb Of tenfold adamant, his ample shield. Milton.

2. Lodestone; magnet. [Obs.] "A great adamant of acquaintance."
Bacon.
As true to thee as steel to adamant. Greene.

ADAMANTEAN
Ad`a*man*te"an, a. Etym: [L. adamanteus.]

Defn: Of adamant; hard as adamant. Milton.

ADAMANTINE
Ad`a*man"tine, a. Etym: [L. adamantinus, Gr.

1. Made of adamant, or having the qualities of adamant; incapable of
being broken, dissolved, or penetrated; as, adamantine bonds or
chains.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Like the diamond in hardness or luster.

ADAMBULACRAL
Ad`am*bu*la"cral, a. Etym: [L. ad + E. ambulacral.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Next to the ambulacra; as, the adambulacral ossicles of the
starfish.

ADAMIC; ADAMICAL
A*dam"ic, A*dam"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Adam, or resembling him. Adamic earth, a
name given to common red clay, from a notion that Adam means red
earth.

ADAMITE
Ad"am*ite, n. Etym: [From Adam.]

1. A descendant of Adam; a human being.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect of visionaries, who, professing to imitate the
state of Adam, discarded the use of dress in their assemblies.

ADAM'S APPLE
Ad"am's ap"ple.

Defn: See under Adam.

ADANCE
A*dance", adv.

Defn: Dancing. Lowell.

ADANGLE
A*dan"gle, adv.

Defn: Dangling. Browning.

ADANSONIA
Ad`an*so"ni*a, n. Etym: [From Adanson, a French botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of great trees related to the Bombax. There are two
species, A. digitata, the baobab or monkey-bread of Africa and India,
and A. Gregorii, the sour gourd or cream-of-tartar tree of Australia.
Both have a trunk of moderate height, but of enormous diameter, and a
wide-spreading head. The fruit is oblong, and filled with pleasantly
acid pulp. The wood is very soft, and the bark is used by the natives
for making ropes and cloth. D. C. Eaton.

ADAPT
A*dapt", a.

Defn: Fitted; suited. [Obs.] Swift.

ADAPT
A*dapt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adapted; p. pr. & vb. n. Adapting.]
Etym: [L. adaptare; ad + aptare to fit; cf. F. adapter. See Apt,
Adept.]

Defn: To make suitable; to fit, or suit; to adjust; to alter so as to
fit for a new use; -- sometimes followed by to or for.
For nature, always in the right, To your decays adapts my sight.
Swift.
Appeals adapted to his [man's] whole nature. Angus.
Streets ill adapted for the residence of wealthy persons. Macaulay.

ADAPTABILITY; ADAPTABLENESS
A*dapt`a*bil"i*ty, A*dapt"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adaptable; suitableness. "General
adaptability for every purpose." Farrar.

ADAPTABLE
A*dapt"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being adapted.

ADAPTATION
Ad`ap*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. adaptation, LL. adaptatio.]

1. The act or process of adapting, or fitting; or the state of being
adapted or fitted; fitness. "Adaptation of the means to the end."
Erskine.

2. The result of adapting; an adapted form.

ADAPTATIVE
A*dapt"a*tive, a.

Defn: Adaptive. Stubbs.

ADAPTEDNESS
A*dapt"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being adapted; suitableness; special
fitness.

ADAPTER
A*dapt"er, n.

1. One who adapts.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A connecting tube; an adopter.

ADAPTION
A*dap"tion, n.

Defn: Adaptation. Cheyne.

ADAPTIVE
A*dapt"ive, a.

Defn: Suited, given, or tending, to adaptation; characterized by
adaptation; capable of adapting. Coleridge.
 -- A*dapt"ive*ly, adv.

ADAPTIVENESS
A*dapt"ive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adaptive; capacity to adapt.

ADAPTLY
A*dapt"ly, adv.

Defn: In a suitable manner. [R.] Prior.

ADAPTNESS
A*dapt"ness, n.

Defn: Adaptedness. [R.]

ADAPTORIAL
Ad`ap*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Adaptive. [R.]

ADAR
A"dar, n. Etym: [Heb. adär.]

Defn: The twelfth month of the Hebrew ecclesiastical year, and the
sixth of the civil. It corresponded nearly with March.

ADARCE
A*dar"ce, n. Etym: [L. adarce, adarca, Gr.

Defn: A saltish concretion on reeds and grass in marshy grounds in
Galatia. It is soft and porous, and was formerly used for cleansing
the skin from freckles and tetters, and also in leprosy. Dana.

ADATIS
Ad"a*tis, n.

Defn: A fine cotton cloth of India.

ADAUNT
A*daunt", v. t. Etym: [OE. adaunten to overpower, OF. adonter; à (L.
ad) + donter, F. dompter. See Daunt.]

Defn: To daunt; to subdue; to mitigate. [Obs.] Skelton.

ADAW
A*daw", v. t. Etym: [Cf. OE. adawe of dawe, AS. of dagum from days,
i. e., from life, out of life.]

Defn: To subdue; to daunt. [Obs.]
The sight whereof did greatly him adaw. Spenser.

ADAW
A*daw", v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. adawen to wake; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-
, Ger. er-) + dawen, dagon, to dawn. See Daw.]

Defn: To awaken; to arouse. [Obs.]
A man that waketh of his sleep He may not suddenly well taken keep
Upon a thing, ne seen it parfitly Till that he be adawed verily.
Chaucer.

ADAYS
A*days", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- (for on) + day; the final s was orig. a
genitive ending, afterwards forming adverbs.]

Defn: By day, or every day; in the daytime. [Obs.] Fielding.

AD CAPTANDUM
Ad cap*tan"dum. Etym: [L., for catching.]

Defn: A phrase used adjectively sometimes of meretricious attempts to
catch or win popular favor.

ADD
Add, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Added; p. pr. & vb. n. Adding.] Etym: [L.
addere; ad + dare to give, put. Cf. Date, Do.]

1. To give by way of increased possession (to any one); to bestow
(on).
The Lord shall add to me another son. Gen. xxx. 24.

2. To join or unite, as one thing to another, or as several
particulars, so as to increase the number, augment the quantity,
enlarge the magnitude, or so as to form into one aggregate. Hence: To
sum up; to put together mentally; as, to add numbers; to add up a
column.
Back to thy punishment, False fugitive, and to thy speed add wings.
Milton.
As easily as he can add together the ideas of two days or two years.
Locke.

3. To append, as a statement; to say further.
He added that he would willingly consent to the entire abolition of
the tax. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To Add, Join, Annex, Unite, Coalesce. We add by bringing things
together so as to form a whole. We join by putting one thing to
another in close or continuos connection. We annex by attaching some
adjunct to a larger body. We unite by bringing things together so
that their parts adhere or intermingle. Things coalesce by coming
together or mingling so as to form one organization. To add
quantities; to join houses; to annex territory; to unite kingdoms; to
make parties coalesce.

ADD
Add, v. i.

1. To make an addition. To add to, to augment; to increase; as, it
adds to our anxiety. "I will add to your yoke." 1 Kings xii. 14.

2. To perform the arithmetical operation of addition; as, he adds
rapidly.

ADDABLE
Add"a*ble, a. Etym: [Add, v. + -able.]

Defn: Addible.

ADDAX
Ad"dax, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the largest African antelopes (Hippotragus, or Oryx,
nasomaculatus).

Note: It is now believed to be the Strepsiceros (twisted horn) of the
ancients. By some it is thought to be the pygarg of the Bible.

ADDEEM
Ad*deem", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + deem.]

Defn: To award; to adjudge. [Obs.] "Unto him they did addeem the
prise." Spenser.

ADDENDUM
Ad*den"dum, n.; pl. Addenda. Etym: [L., fr. addere to add.]

Defn: A thing to be added; an appendix or addition. Addendum circle
(Mech.), the circle which may be described around a circular spur
wheel or gear wheel, touching the crests or tips of the teeth.
Rankine.

ADDER
Add"er, n. Etym: [See Add.]

Defn: One who, or that which, adds; esp., a machine for adding
numbers.

ADDER
Ad"der, n. Etym: [OE. addere, naddere, eddre, AS. nædre, adder,
snake; akin to OS. nadra, OHG. natra, natara, Ger. natter, Goth.
nadrs, Icel. nathr, masc., nathra, fem.: cf. W. neidr, Gorn. naddyr,
Ir. nathair, L. natrix, water snake. An adder is for a nadder.]

1. A serpent. [Obs.] "The eddre seide to the woman." Wyclif. Gen.
iii. 4. )

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small venomous serpent of the genus Vipera. The common European
adder is the Vipera (or Pelias) berus. The puff adders of Africa are
species of Clotho.
(b) In America, the term is commonly applied to several harmless
snakes, as the milk adder, puffing adder, etc.
(c) Same as Sea Adder.

Note: In the sculptures the appellation is given to several venomous
serpents, -- sometimes to the horned viper (Cerastles).

ADDER FLY
Ad"der fly.

Defn: A dragon fly.

ADDER'S-TONGUE
Ad"der's-tongue`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A genus of ferns (Ophioglossum), whose seeds are produced on a
spike resembling a serpent's tongue.
(b) The yellow dogtooth violet. Gray.

ADDERWORT
Ad"der*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The common bistort or snakeweed (Polygonum bistorta).

ADDIBILITY
Add`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quantity of being addible; capability of addition. Locke.

ADDIBLE
Add"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being added. "Addible numbers." Locke.

ADDICE
Ad"dice, n.

Defn: See Adze. [Obs.] Moxon.

ADDICT
Ad*dict", p. p.

Defn: Addicted; devoted. [Obs.]

ADDICT
Ad*dict", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Addicted; p. pr. & vb. n. Addicting.]
Etym: [L. addictus, p. p. of addicere to adjudge, devote; ad + dicere
to say. See Diction.]

1. To apply habitually; to devote; to habituate; -- with to. "They
addict themselves to the civil law." Evelyn.
He is addicted to his study. Beau. & Fl.
That part of mankind that addict their minds to speculations.
Adventurer.
His genius addicted him to the study of antiquity. Fuller.
A man gross . . . and addicted to low company. Macaulay.

2. To adapt; to make suitable; to fit. [Obs.]
The land about is exceedingly addicted to wood, but the coldness of
the place hinders the growth. Evelyn.

Syn.
 -- Addict, Devote, Consecrate, Dedicate. Addict was formerly used in
a good sense; as, addicted to letters; but is now mostly employed in
a bad sense or an indifferent one; as, addicted to vice; addicted to
sensual indulgence. "Addicted to staying at home." J. S. Mill. Devote
is always taken in a good sense, expressing habitual earnestness in
the pursuit of some favorite object; as, devoted to science.
Consecrate and dedicate express devotion of a higher kind, involving
religious sentiment; as, consecrated to the service of the church;
dedicated to God.

ADDICTEDNESS
Ad*dict"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being addicted; attachment.

ADDICTION
Ad*dic"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. L. addictio an adjudging.]

Defn: The state of being addicted; devotion; inclination. "His
addiction was to courses vain." Shak.

ADDISON'S DISEASE
Ad"di*son's dis*ease". Etym: [Named from Thomas Addison, M. D., of
London, who first described it.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition causing a peculiar brownish discoloration of
the skin, and thought, at one time, to be due to disease of the
suprarenal capsules (two flat triangular bodies covering the upper
part of the kidneys), but now known not to be dependent upon this
causes exclusively. It is usually fatal.

ADDITAMENT
Ad*dit"a*ment, n. Etym: [L. additamentum, fr. additus, p. p. of
addere to add.]

Defn: An addition, or a thing added. Fuller.
My persuasion that the latter verses of the chapter were an
additament of a later age. Coleridge.

ADDITION
Ad*di"tion, n. Etym: [F. addition, L. additio, fr. addere to add.]

1. The act of adding two or more things together; -- opposed to
subtraction or diminution. "This endless addition or addibility of
numbers." Locke.

2. Anything added; increase; augmentation; as, a piazza is an
addition to a building.

3. (Math.)

Defn: That part of arithmetic which treats of adding numbers.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: A dot at the right side of a note as an indication that its
sound is to be lengthened one half. [R.]

5. (Law)

Defn: A title annexed to a man's name, to identify him more
precisely; as, John Doe, Esq.; Richard Roe, Gent.; Robert Dale,
Mason; Thomas Way, of New York; a mark of distinction; a title.

6. (Her.)

Defn: Something added to a coat of arms, as a mark of honor; --
opposed to abatement. Vector addition (Geom.), that kind of addition
of two lines, or vectors, AB and BC, by which their sum is regarded
as the line, or vector, AC.

Syn.
 -- Increase; accession; augmentation; appendage; adjunct.

ADDITIONAL
Ad*di"tion*al, a.

Defn: Added; supplemental; in the way of an addition.

ADDITIONAL
Ad*di"tion*al, n.

Defn: Something added. [R.] Bacon.

ADDITIONALLY
Ad*di"tion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of addition.

ADDITIONARY
Ad*di"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Additional. [R.] Herbert.

ADDITITIOUS
Ad`di*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. addititius, fr. addere.]

Defn: Additive. [R.] Sir J. Herschel.

ADDITIVE
Ad"di*tive, a. Etym: [L. additivus.] (Math.)

Defn: Proper to be added; positive; -- opposed to subtractive.

ADDITORY
Ad"di*to*ry, a.

Defn: Tending to add; making some addition. [R.] Arbuthnot.

ADDLE
Ad"dle, n. Etym: [OE. adel, AS. adela, mud.]

1. Liquid filth; mire. [Obs.]

2. Lees; dregs. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

ADDLE
Ad"dle, a.

Defn: Having lost the power of development, and become rotten, as
eggs; putrid. Hence: Unfruitful or confused, as brains; muddled.
Dryden.

ADDLE
Ad"dle, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Addled; p. pr. & vb. n. Addling.]

Defn: To make addle; to grow addle; to muddle; as, he addled his
brain. "Their eggs were addled." Cowper.

ADDLE
Ad"dle, v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. adlen, adilen, to gain, acquire; prob.
fr. Icel. ö\'eblask to acquire property, akin to othal property. Cf.
Allodial.]

1. To earn by labor. [Prov. Eng.] Forby.

2. To thrive or grow; to ripen. [Prov. Eng.]
Kill ivy, else tree will addle no more. Tusser.

ADDLE-BRAIN; ADDLE-HEAD; ADDLE-PATE
Ad"dle-brain`, Ad"dle-head`, Ad"dle-pate, n.

Defn: A foolish or dull-witted fellow. [Colloq.]

ADDLE-BRAINED; ADDLE-HEADED; ADDLE-PATED
Ad"dle-brained`, Ad"dle-head`ed, Ad"dle-pa`ted, a.

Defn: Dull-witted; stupid. "The addle-brained Oberstein." Motley.
Dull and addle-pated. Dryden.

ADDLE-PATEDNESS
Ad"dle-pa`ted*ness, n.

Defn: Stupidity.

ADDLINGS
Ad"dlings, n. pl. Etym: [See Addle, to earn.]

Defn: Earnings. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

ADDOOM
Ad*doom", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + doom.]

Defn: To adjudge. [Obs.] Spenser.

ADDORSED
Ad*dorsed", a. Etym: [L. ad + dorsum, back: cf. F. adossé.] (Her.)

Defn: Set or turned back to back.

ADDRESS
Ad*dress", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Addressed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Addressing.] Etym: [OE. adressen to raise erect, adorn, OF. adrecier,
to straighten, address, F. adresser, fr. à (L. ad) + OF. drecier, F.
dresser, to straighten, arrange. See Dress, v.]

1. To aim; to direct. [Obs.] Chaucer.
And this good knight his way with me addrest. Spenser.

2. To prepare or make ready. [Obs.]
His foe was soon addressed. Spenser.
Turnus addressed his men to single fight. Dryden.
The five foolish virgins addressed themselves at the noise of the
bridegroom's coming. Jer. Taylor.

3. Reflexively: To prepare one's self; to apply one's skill or
energies (to some object); to betake.
These men addressed themselves to the task. Macaulay.

4. To clothe or array; to dress. [Archaic]
Tecla . . . addressed herself in man's apparel. Jewel.

5. To direct, as words (to any one or any thing); to make, as a
speech, petition, etc. (to any one, an audience).
The young hero had addressed his players to him for his assistance.
Dryden.

6. To direct speech to; to make a communication to, whether spoken or
written; to apply to by words, as by a speech, petition, etc., to
speak to; to accost.
Are not your orders to address the senate Addison.
The representatives of the nation addressed the king. Swift.

7. To direct in writing, as a letter; to superscribe, or to direct
and transmit; as, he addressed a letter.

8. To make suit to as a lover; to court; to woo.

9. (Com.)

Defn: To consign or intrust to the care of another, as agent or
factor; as, the ship was addressed to a merchant in Baltimore. To
address one's self to. (a) To prepare one's self for; to apply one's
self to. (b) To direct one's speech or discourse to.

ADDRESS
Ad*dress", v. i.

1. To prepare one's self. [Obs.] "Let us address to tend on Hector's
heels." Shak.

2. To direct speech. [Obs.]
Young Turnus to the beauteous maid addrest. Dryden.

Note: The intransitive uses come from the dropping out of the
reflexive pronoun.

ADDRESS
Ad*dress, n. Etym: [Cf. F. adresse. See Address, v. t.]

1. Act of preparing one's self. [Obs.] Jer Taylor.

2. Act of addressing one's self to a person; verbal application.

3. A formal communication, either written or spoken; a discourse; a
speech; a formal application to any one; a petition; a formal
statement on some subject or special occasion; as, an address of
thanks, an address to the voters.

4. Direction or superscription of a letter, or the name, title, and
place of residence of the person addressed.

5. Manner of speaking to another; delivery; as, a man of pleasing or
insinuating address.

6. Attention in the way one's addresses to a lady. Addison.

7. Skill; skillful management; dexterity; adroitness.

Syn.
 -- Speech; discourse; harangue; oration; petition; lecture;
readiness; ingenuity; tact; adroitness.

ADDRESSEE
Ad`dress*ee", n.

Defn: One to whom anything is addressed.

ADDRESSION
Ad*dres"sion, n.

Defn: The act of addressing or directing one's course. [Rare & Obs.]
Chapman.

ADDUCE
Ad*duce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adduced; p. pr. & vb. n. Adducing.]
Etym: [L. adducere, adductum, to lead or bring to; ad + ducere to
lead. See Duke, and cf. Adduct.]

Defn: To bring forward or offer, as an argument, passage, or
consideration which bears on a statement or case; to cite; to allege.
Reasons . . . were adduced on both sides. Macaulay.
Enough could not be adduced to satisfy the purpose of illustration.
De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- To present; allege; advance; cite; quote; assign; urge; name;
mention.

ADDUCENT
Ad*du"cent, a. Etym: [L. addunces, p. pr. of adducere.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Bringing together or towards a given point; -- a word applied
to those muscles of the body which pull one part towards another.
Opposed to abducent.

ADDUCER
Ad*du"cer, n.

Defn: One who adduces.

ADDUCIBLE
Ad*du"ci*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being adduced.
Proofs innumerable, and in every imaginable manner diversified, are
adducible. I. Taylor.

ADDUCT
Ad*duct", v. t. Etym: [L. adductus, p. p. of adducere. See Adduce.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: To draw towards a common center or a middle line. Huxley.

ADDUCTION
Ad*duc"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. adduction. See Adduce.]

1. The act of adducing or bringing forward.
An adduction of facts gathered from various quarters. I. Taylor.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The action by which the parts of the body are drawn towards its
axis]; -- opposed to abduction. Dunglison.

ADDUCTIVE
Ad*duc"tive, a.

Defn: Adducing, or bringing towards or to something.

ADDUCTOR
Ad*duc"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. adducere.] (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which draws a limb or part of the body toward the
middle line of the body, or closes extended parts of the body; --
opposed to abductor; as, the adductor of the eye, which turns the eye
toward the nose.
In the bivalve shells, the muscles which close the values of the
shell are called adductor muscles. Verrill.

ADDULCE
Ad*dulce", v. t. Etym: [Like F. adoucir; fr. L. ad. + dulcis sweet.]

Defn: To sweeten; to soothe. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADEEM
A*deem", v. t. Etym: [L. adimere. See Ademption.] (Law)

Defn: To revoke, as a legacy, grant, etc., or to satisfy it by some
other gift.

ADELANTADILLO
A`de*lan`ta*dil"lo, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A Spanish red wine made of the first ripe grapes.

ADELANTADO
A`de*lan*ta"do, n. Etym: [Sp., prop. p. of adelantar to advance, to
promote.]

Defn: A governor of a province; a commander. Prescott.

ADELASTER
Ad*e*las"ter, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A provisional name for a plant which has not had its flowers
botanically examined, and therefore has not been referred to its
proper genus.

ADELING
Ad"el*ing, n.

Defn: Same as Atheling.

ADELOCODONIC
A*del`o*co*don"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Applied to sexual zooids of hydroids, that have a saclike form
and do not become free; -- opposed to phanerocodonic.

ADELOPOD
A*del"o*pod, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal having feet that are not apparent.

ADELPHIA
A*del"phi*a, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A "brotherhood," or collection of stamens in a bundle; -- used
in composition, as in the class names, Monadelphia, Diadelphia, etc.

ADELPHOUS
A*del"phous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having coalescent or clustered filaments; -- said of stamens;
as, adelphous stamens. Usually in composition; as, monadelphous.
Gray.

ADEMPT
A*dempt", p. p. Etym: [L. ademptus, p. p. of adimere to take away.]

Defn: Takes away. [Obs.]
Without any sinister suspicion of anything being added or adempt.
Latimn.

ADEMPTION
A*demp"tion, n. Etym: [L. ademptio, fr. adimere, ademptum, to take
away; ad + emere to buy, orig. to take.] (Law)

Defn: The revocation or taking away of a grant donation, legacy, or
the like. Bouvier.

ADEN-; ADENO-
Aden- or Adeno-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Combining forms of the Greek word for gland; -- used in words
relating to the structure, diseases, etc., of the glands.

ADENALGIA; ADENALGY
Ad`e*nal"gi*a, Ad"e*nal`gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: (Med.) Pain in a gland.

ADENIFORM
A*den"i*form, a. Etym: [Aden- + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like a gland; adenoid. Dunglison.

ADENITIS
Ad`e*ni"tis, n. Etym: [Aden- + -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Glandular inflammation. Dunglison.

ADENOGRAPHIC
Ad`e*no*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to adenography.

ADENOGRAPHY
Ad`e*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Adeno- + -graphy.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which describes the glands.

ADENOID; ADENOIDAL
Ad"e*noid, Ad`e*noid"al a.

Defn: Glandlike; glandular.

ADENOLOGICAL
Ad`e*no*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to adenology.

ADENOLOGY
Ad`e*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Adeno- + -logy.]

Defn: The part of physiology that treats of the glands.

ADENOMA
Ad`e*no"ma, n.; L. pl. -mata (#). [NL.; adeno- + -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A benign tumor of a glandlike structure; morbid enlargement of
a gland. -- Ad`e*nom"a*tous, a.

ADENOPATHY
Ad"e*nop"a*thy, n.  [Adeno- + Gr.  suffering,  to suffer.] (Med.)

Defn: Disease of a gland.

ADENOPHOROUS
Ad`e*noph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Adeno- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing glands.

ADENOPHYLLOUS
Ad`e*noph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Adeno- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having glands on the leaves.

ADENOSCLEROSIS
Ad"e*no*scle*ro"sis, n. [NL.; adeno- + sclerosis.] (Med.)

Defn: The hardening of a gland.

ADENOSE
Ad"e*nose`, a.

Defn: Like a gland; full of glands; glandulous; adenous.

ADENOTOMIC
Ad`e*no*tom"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to adenotomy.

ADENOTOMY
Ad`e*not"o*my, n. Etym: [Adeno- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Dissection of, or incision into, a gland or glands.

ADENOUS
Ad"e*nous, a.

Defn: Same as Adenose.

ADEN ULCER
A"den ul"cer. [So named after Aden, a seaport in Southern Arabia,
where it occurs.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease endemic in various parts of tropical Asia, due to a
specific microörganism which produces chronic ulcers on the limbs. It
is often fatal. Called also Cochin China ulcer, Persian ulcer,
tropical ulcer, etc.

ADEPS
Ad"eps, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Animal fat; lard.

ADEPT
A*dept", n. Etym: [L. adeptus obtained (sc. artem), adipsci to arrive
ad + apisci to pursue. See Apt, and cf. Adapt.]

Defn: One fully skilled or well versed in anything; a proficient; as,
adepts in philosophy.

ADEPT
A*dept", a.

Defn: Well skilled; completely versed; thoroughly proficient.
Beaus adept in everything profound. Cowper.

ADEPTION
A*dep"tion, n. Etym: [L. adeptio. See Adept, a.]

Defn: An obtaining; attainment. [Obs.]
In the wit and policy of the capitain consisteth the chief adeption
of the victory. Grafton.

ADEPTIST
A*dept"ist, n.

Defn: A skilled alchemist. [Obs.]

ADEPTNESS
A*dept"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adept; skill.

ADEQUACY
Ad"e*qua*cy, n. Etym: [See Adequate.]

Defn: The state or quality of being adequate, proportionate, or
sufficient; a sufficiency for a particular purpose; as, the adequacy
of supply to the expenditure.

ADEQUATE
Ad"e*quate, a. Etym: [L. adaequatus, p. p. of adaequare to make equal
to; ad + aequare to make equal, aequus equal. See Equal.]

Defn: Equal to some requirement; proportionate, or correspondent;
fully sufficient; as, powers adequate to a great work; an adequate
definition.
Ireland had no adequate champion. De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- Proportionate; commensurate; sufficient; suitable; competent;
capable.

ADEQUATE
Ad"e*quate, v. t. Etym: [See Adequate, a.]

1. To equalize; to make adequate. [R.] Fotherby.

2. To equal. [Obs.]
It [is] an impossibility for any creature to adequate God in his
eternity. Shelford.

ADEQUATELY
Ad"e*quate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adequate manner.

ADEQUATENESS
Ad"e*quate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adequate; suitableness; sufficiency;
adequacy.

ADEQUATION
Ad`e*qua"tion, n. Etym: [L. adaequatio.]

Defn: The act of equalizing; act or result of making adequate; an
equivalent. [Obs.] Bp. Barlow.

ADESMY
A*des"my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The division or defective coherence of an organ that is usually
entire.

ADESSENARIAN
Ad*es`se*na"ri*an, n. Etym: [Formed fr. L. adesse to be present; ad +
esse to be.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who held the real presence of Christ's body in the
eucharist, but not by transubstantiation.

ADFECTED
Ad*fect"ed, a. Etym: [L. adfectus or affectus. See Affect, v.] (Alg.)

Defn: See Affected, 5.

ADFILIATED
Ad*fil"i*a`ted, a.

Defn: See Affiliated. [Obs.]

ADFILIATION
Ad*fil`i*a"tion, n.

Defn: See Affiliation. [Obs.]

ADFLUXION
Ad*flux"ion, n.

Defn: See Affluxion.

ADHAMANT
Ad*ha"mant, a. Etym: [From L. adhamare to catch; ad + hamus hook.]

Defn: Clinging, as by hooks.

ADHERE
Ad*here", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Adhered; p. pr. & vb. n. Adhering.]
Etym: [L. adhaerere, adhaesum; ad + haerere to stick: cf. F. adhérer.
See Aghast.]

1. To stick fast or cleave, as a glutinous substance does; to become
joined or united; as, wax to the finger; the lungs sometimes adhere
to the pleura.

2. To hold, be attached, or devoted; to remain fixed, either by
personal union or conformity of faith, principle, or opinion; as, men
adhere to a party, a cause, a leader, a church.

3. To be consistent or coherent; to be in accordance; to agree. "Nor
time nor place did then adhere." Every thing adheres together." Shak.

Syn.
 -- To attach; stick; cleave; cling; hold

ADHERENCE
Ad*her"ence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. adhérence, LL. adhaerentia.]

1. The quality or state of adhering.

2. The state of being fixed in attachment; fidelity; steady
attachment; adhesion; as, adherence to a party or to opinions.

Syn.
 -- Adherence, Adhesion. These words, which were once freely
interchanged, are now almost entirely separated. Adherence is no
longer used to denote physical union, but is applied, to mental
states or habits; as, a strict adherence to one's duty; close
adherence to the argument, etc. Adhesion is now confined chiefly to
the physical sense, except in the phrase "To give in one's adhesion
to a cause or a party."

ADHERENCY
Ad*her"en*cy, n.

1. The state or quality of being adherent; adherence. [R.]

2. That which adheres. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

ADHERENT
Ad*her"ent, a. Etym: [L. adhaerens, -entis, p. pr.: cf. F. adhérent.]

1. Sticking; clinging; adhering. Pope.

2. Attached as an attribute or circumstance.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Congenitally united with an organ of another kind, as calyx
with ovary, or stamens with petals.

ADHERENT
Ad*her"ent, n.

1. One who adheres; one who adheres; one who follows a leader, party,
or profession; a follower, or partisan; a believer in a particular
faith or church.

2. That which adheres; an appendage. [R.] Milton.

Syn.
 -- Follower; partisan; upholder; disciple; supporter; dependent;
ally; backer.

ADHERENTLY
Ad*her"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adherent manner.

ADHERER
Ad*her"er, n.

Defn: One who adheres; an adherent.

ADHESION
Ad*he"sion, n. Etym: [L. adhaesio, fr. adhaerere: cf. F. adhésion.]

1. The action of sticking; the state of being attached; intimate
union; as the adhesion of glue, or of parts united by growth, cement,
or the like.

2. Adherence; steady or firm attachment; fidelity; as, to error, to a
policy.
His adhesion to the Tories was bounded by his approbation of their
foreign policy. De Quincey.

3. Agreement to adhere; concurrence; assent.
To that treaty Spain and England gave in their adhesion. Macaulay.

4. (Physics)

Defn: The molecular attraction exerted between bodies in contact. See
Cohesion.

5. (Med.)

Defn: Union of surface, normally separate, by the formation of new
tissue resulting from an inflammatory process.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: The union of parts which are separate in other plants, or in
younger states of the same plant.

Syn.
 -- Adherence; union. See Adherence.

ADHESIVE
Ad*he"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. adhésif.]

1. Sticky; tenacious, as glutinous substances.

2. Apt or tending to adhere; clinging. Thomson. Adhesive attraction.
(Physics) See Attraction.
 -- Adhesive inflammation (Surg.), that kind of inflammation which
terminates in the reunion of divided parts without suppuration.
 -- Adhesive plaster, a sticking; a plaster containing resin, wax,
litharge, and olive oil.

ADHESIVELY
Ad*he"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adhesive manner.

ADHESIVENESS
Ad*he"sive*ness, n.

1. The quality of sticking or adhering; stickiness; tenacity of
union.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: Propensity to form and maintain attachments to persons, and to
promote social intercourse.

ADHIBIT
Ad*hib"it, v. t. Etym: [L. adhibitus, p. p. of adhibere to hold to;
ad + habere to have.]

1. To admit, as a person or thing; to take in. Muirhead.

2. To use or apply; to administer. Camden.

3. To attach; to affix. Alison.

ADHIBITION
Ad`hi*bi"tion, n. Etym: [L. adhibitio.]

Defn: The act of adhibiting; application; use. Whitaker.

AD HOMINEM
Ad hom"i*nem. Etym: [L., to the man.]

Defn: ` phrase applied to an appeal or argument addressed to the
principles, interests, or passions of a man.

ADHORT
Ad*hort", v. t. Etym: [L. adhortari. See Adhortation.]

Defn: To exhort; to advise. [Obs.] Feltham.

ADHORTATION
Ad`hor*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. adhortatio, fr. adhortari to advise; ad
+ hortari to exhort.]

Defn: Advice; exhortation. [Obs.] Peacham.

ADHORTATORY
Ad*hor"ta*to*ry, a.

Defn: Containing counsel or warning; hortatory; advisory. [Obs.]
Potter.

ADIABATIC
Ad`i*a*bat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Not giving out or receiving heat.
 -- Ad`i*a*bat`ic*al*ly, adv. Adiabatic line or curve, a curve
exhibiting the variations of pressure and volume of a fluid when it
expands without either receiving or giving out heat. Rankine.

ADIACTINIC
Ad`i*ac*tin"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + diactinic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Not transmitting the actinic rays.

ADIANTUM
Ad`i*an"tum, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of ferns, the leaves of which shed water; maidenhair.
Also, the black maidenhair, a species of spleenwort.

ADIAPHORISM
Ad`i*aph"o*rism, n.

Defn: Religious indifference.

ADIAPHORIST
Ad`i*aph"o*rist, n. Etym: [See Adiaphorous.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of the German Protestants who, with Melanchthon, held some
opinions and ceremonies to be indifferent or nonessential, which
Luther condemned as sinful or heretical. Murdock.

ADIAPHORISTIC
Ad`i*aph`o*ris"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to matters indifferent in faith and practice.
Shipley.

ADIAPHORITE
Ad`i*aph"o*rite, n.

Defn: Same as Adiaphorist.

ADIAPHOROUS
Ad`i*aph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Indifferent or neutral. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Incapable of doing either harm or good, as some medicines.
Dunglison.

ADIAPHORY
Ad`i*aph"o*ry, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Indifference. [Obs.]

ADIATHERMIC
Ad`i*a*ther"mic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Not pervious to heat.

ADIEU
A*dieu", interj. & adv. Etym: [OE. also adew, adewe, adue, F. dieu,
fr. L. ad to + deus God.]

Defn: Good-by; farewell; an expression of kind wishes at parting.

ADIEU
A*dieu", n.; pl. Adieus.

Defn: A farewell; commendation to the care of God at parting. Shak.

ADIGHT
A*dight", v. t. [p. p. Adight.] Etym: [Pref. a- (intensive) + OE.
dihten. See Dight.]

Defn: To set in order; to array; to attire; to deck, to dress. [Obs.]

AD INFINITUM
Ad in`fi*ni"tum. Etym: [L., to infinity.]

Defn: Without limit; endlessly.

AD INTERIM
Ad in"ter*imEtym: [L.]

Defn: Meanwhile; temporary.

ADIOS
A`dios", interj. [Sp., fr. L. ad to + deus god. Cf. Adieu.]

Defn: Adieu; farewell; good-by; -- chiefly used among Spanish-
speaking people.

 This word is often pronounced å*de"os, but the Spanish accent,
though weak, is on the final syllable.

ADIPESCENT
Ad`i*pes"cent, a. Etym: [L. adeps, adipis, fat + -escent.]

Defn: Becoming fatty.

ADIPIC
A*dip"ic, a. Etym: [L. adeps, adipis, fat.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, fatty or oily substances; --
applied to certain acids obtained from fats by the action of nitric
acid.

ADIPOCERATE
Ad`i*poc"er*ate, v. t.

Defn: To convert adipocere.

ADIPOCERATION
Ad`i*poc`er*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of changing into adipocere.

ADIPOCERE
Ad"i*po*cere`, n. Etym: [L. adeps, adipis, fat + cera wax: cf. F.
adipocere.]

Defn: A soft, unctuous, or waxy substance, of a light brown color,
into which the fat and muscle tissue of dead bodies sometimes are
converted, by long immersion in water or by burial in moist places.
It is a result of fatty degeneration.

ADIPOCERIFORM
Ad`i*po*cer"i*form, a. Etym: [Adipocere + -form.]

Defn: Having the form or appearance of adipocere; as, an
adipoceriform tumor.

ADIPOCEROUS
Ad`i*poc"er*ous, a.

Defn: Like adipocere.

ADIPOGENOUS
Ad`i*pog"e*nous, a. [See Adipose; -genous.] (Med.)

Defn: Producing fat.

ADIPOLYSIS
Ad`i*pol"y*sis, n. [NL.; L. adeps, adipis, fat + Gr.  a loosing.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: The digestion of fats.

ADIPOLYTIC
Ad`i*po*lyt"ic, a. [L. adeps, adipis, fat + Gr.  to loose.] (Chem.)

Defn: Hydrolyzing fats; converting neutral fats into glycerin and
free fatty acids, esp. by the action of an enzyme; as, adipolytic
action.

ADIPOMA
Ad`i*po"ma, n.; L. pl. -mata (#). [NL. See Adipose; -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A mass of fat found internally; also, a fatty tumor. --
Ad`i*pom"a*tous, a.

ADIPOSE
Ad"i*pose`, a. Etym: [L. adeps, adipis, fat, grease.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to animal fat; fatty. Adipose fin (Zoöl.), a
soft boneless fin.
 -- Adipose tissue (Anat.), that form of animal tissue which forms or
contains fat.

ADIPOSENESS; ADIPOSITY
Ad"i*pose`ness, Ad`i*pos"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being fat; fatness.

ADIPOUS
Ad"i*pous, a.

Defn: Fatty; adipose. [R.]

ADIPSOUS
A*dip"sous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Quenching thirst, as certain fruits.

ADIPSY
Ad"ip*sy, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Absence of thirst.

ADIT
Ad"it, n. Etym: [L. aditus, fr. adire, , to go to; ad + ire to go.]

1. An entrance or passage. Specifically: The nearly horizontal
opening by which a mine is entered, or by which water and ores are
carried away; -- called also drift and tunnel.

2. Admission; approach; access. [R.]
Yourself and yours shall have Free adit. Tennyson.

ADJACENCE; ADJACENCY
Ad"ja"cence, Ad*ja"cen*cy,Etym: [Cf. LL. adjacentia.]

1. The state of being adjacent or contiguous; contiguity; as, the
adjacency of lands or buildings.

2. That which is adjacent.[R.] Sir T. Browne.

ADJACENT
Ad*ja"cent, a. Etym: [L. adjacens, -centis, p. pr. of adjacere to lie
near; ad + jac to lie: cf. F. adjacent.]

Defn: Lying near, close, or contiguous; neighboring; bordering on;
as, a field adjacent to the highway. "The adjacent forest." B.
Jonson. Adjacent or contiguous angle. (Geom.) See Angle.

Syn.
 -- Adjoining; contiguous; near.
 -- Adjacent, Adjoining, Contiguous. Things are adjacent when they
lie close each other, not necessary in actual contact; as, adjacent
fields, adjacent villages, etc.
I find that all Europe with her adjacent isles is peopled with
Christians. Howell.
Things are adjoining when they meet at some line or point of
junction; as, adjoining farms, an adjoining highway. What is spoken
of as contiguous should touch with some extent of one side or the
whole of it; as, a row of contiguous buildings; a wood contiguous to
a plain.

ADJACENT
Ad*ja"cent, n.

Defn: That which is adjacent. [R.] Locke.

ADJACENTLY
Ad*ja"cent*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to be adjacent.

ADJECT
Ad*ject", v. t. Etym: [L. adjectus, p. p. of adjicere to throw to, to
add to; ad + ac to throw. See Jet a shooting forth.]

Defn: To add or annex; to join. Leland.

ADJECTION
Ad*jec"tion, n. Etym: [L. adjectio, fr. adjicere: cf. F. adjection.
See Adject.]

Defn: The act or mode of adding; also, the thing added. [R.] B.
Jonson.

ADJECTIONAL
Ad*jec"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to adjection; that is, or may be, annexed. [R.]
Earle.

ADJECTITIOUS
Ad`jec*ti"tious, Etym: [L. adjectitius.]

Defn: Added; additional. Parkhurst.

ADJECTIVAL
Ad`jec*ti"val, a.

Defn: Of or relating to the relating to the adjective; of the nature
of an adjective; adjective. W. Taylor (1797)

ADJECTIVALLY
Ad`jec*ti"val*ly, adv.

Defn: As, or in the manner of, an adjective; adjectively.

ADJECTIVE
Ad"jec*tive, a. Etym: [See Adjective, n.]

1. Added to a substantive as an attribute; of the nature of an
adjunct; as, an word sentence.

2. Not standing by itself; dependent. Adjective color, a color which
requires to be fixed by some mordant or base to give it permanency.

3. Relating to procedure. "The whole English law, substantive and
adjective." Macaulay.

ADJECTIVE
Ad"jec*tive, n. Etym: [L. adjectivum (sc. nomen), neut. of adjectivus
that is added, fr. adjicere: cf. F. adjectif. See Adject.]

1. (Gram.)

Defn: A word used with a noun, or substantive, to express a quality
of the thing named, or something attributed to it, or to limit or
define it, or to specify or describe a thing, as distinct from
something else. Thus, in phrase, "a wise ruler," wise is the
adjective, expressing a property of ruler.

2. A dependent; an accessory. Fuller.

ADJECTIVE
Ad"jec*tive, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjectived; p. pr. & vb. n.
Adjectiving.]

Defn: To make an adjective of; to form or change into an adjective.
[R.]
Language has as much occasion to adjective the distinct signification
of the verb, and to adjective also the mood, as it has to adjective
time. It has . . . adjectived all three. Tooke.

ADJECTIVELY
Ad"jec*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an adjective; as, a word used adjectively.

ADJOIN
Ad*join", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjoined; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjoining.]
Etym: [OE. ajoinen, OF. ajoindre, F. adjoindre, fr. L. adjungere; ad
+ jungere to join. See Join, and cf. Adjunct.]

Defn: To join or unite to; to lie contiguous to; to be in contact
with; to attach; to append.
Corrections . . . should be, as remarks, adjoined by way of note.
Watts.

ADJOIN
Ad*join", v. i.

1. To lie or be next, or in contact; to be contiguous; as, the houses
adjoin.
When one man's land adjoins to another's. Blackstone.

Note: The construction with to, on, or with is obsolete or
obsolescent.

2. To join one's self. [Obs.]
She lightly unto him adjoined side to side. Spenser.

ADJOINANT
Ad*join"ant, a.

Defn: Contiguous. [Obs.] Carew.

ADJOINING
Ad*join"ing, a.

Defn: Joining to; contiguous; adjacent; as, an adjoining room. "The
adjoining fane." Dryden.
Upon the hills adjoining to the city. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Adjacent; contiguous; near; neighboring; abutting; bordering. See
Adjacent.

ADJOINT
Ad"joint, n.

Defn: An adjunct; a helper. [Obs.]

ADJOURN
Ad*journ, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjourned; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjourning.]
Etym: [OE. ajornen, OF. ajoiner, ajurner, F. ajourner; OF. a (L. ad)
+ jor, jur, jorn, F. jour, day, fr. L. diurnus belonging to the day,
fr. dies day. Cf. Journal, Journey.]

Defn: To put off or defer to another day, or indefinitely; to
postpone; to close or suspend for the day; -- commonly said of the
meeting, or the action, of convened body; as, to adjourn the meeting;
to adjourn a debate.
It is a common practice to adjourn the reformation of their lives to
a further time. Barrow.
'Tis a needful fitness That we adjourn this court till further day.
Shak.

Syn.
 -- To delay; defer; postpone; put off; suspend.
 -- To Adjourn, Prorogue, Dissolve. These words are used in respect
to public bodies when they lay aside business and separate. Adjourn,
both in Great Britain and this country, is applied to all cases in
which such bodies separate for a brief period, with a view to meet
again. Prorogue is applied in Great Britain to that act of the
executive government, as the sovereign, which brings a session of
Parliament to a close. The word is not used in this country, but a
legislative body is said, in such a case, to adjourn sine die. To
dissolve is to annul the corporate existence of a body. In order to
exist again the body must be reconstituted.

ADJOURN
Ad*journ", v. i.

Defn: To suspend business for a time, as from one day to another, or
for a longer period, or indefinitely; usually, to suspend public
business, as of legislatures and courts, or other convened bodies;
as, congress adjourned at four o'clock; the court adjourned without
day.

ADJOURNAL
Ad*journ"al, n.

Defn: Adjournment; postponement. [R.] "An adjournal of the Diet." Sir
W. Scott.

ADJOURNMENT
Ad*journ"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. f. adjournement, OF. ajornement. See
Adjourn.]

1. The act of adjourning; the putting off till another day or time
specified, or without day.

2. The time or interval during which a public body adjourns its
sittings or postpones business.

ADJUDGE
Ad*judge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjudged; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjudging.]
Etym: [OE. ajugen, OF. ajugier, fr. L. adjudicare; ad + judicare to
judge. See Judge, and cf. Adjudicate.]

1. To award judicially in the case of a controverted question; as,
the prize was adjudged to the victor.

2. To determine in the exercise of judicial power; to decide or award
judicially; to adjudicate; as, the case was adjudged in the November
term.

3. To sentence; to condemn.
Without reprieve, adjudged to death For want of well pronouncing
Shibboleth. Milton.

4. To regard or hold; to judge; to deem.
He adjudged him unworthy of his friendship. Knolles.

Syn.
 -- To decree; award; determine; adjudicate; ordain; assign.

ADJUDGER
Ad*judg"er, n.

Defn: One who adjudges.

ADJUDGMENT
Ad*judg"ment, n.

Defn: The act of adjudging; judicial decision; adjudication. Sir W.
Temple.

ADJUDICATE
Ad*ju"di*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjudicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Adjudicating] Etym: [L. adjudicatus, p. p. of adjudicare. See
Adjudge.]

Defn: To adjudge; to try and determine, as a court; to settle by
judicial decree.

ADJUDICATE
Ad*ju"di*cate, v. i.

Defn: To come to a judicial decision; as, the court adjudicated upon
the case.

ADJUDICATION
Ad*ju`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. adjudicatio: cf. F. adjudication.]

1. The act of adjudicating; the act or process of trying and
determining judicially.

2. A deliberate determination by the judicial power; a judicial
decision or sentence. "An adjudication in favor of natural rights."
Burke.

3. (Bankruptcy practice)

Defn: The decision upon the question whether the debtor is a
bankrupt. Abbott.

4. (Scots Law)

Defn: A process by which land is attached security or in satisfaction
of a debt.

ADJUDICATIVE
Ad*ju"di*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Adjudicating.

ADJUDICATOR
Ad*ju"di*ca`tor, n.

Defn: One who adjudicates.

ADJUDICATURE
Ad*ju"di*ca*ture, n.

Defn: Adjudication.

ADJUGATE
Ad"ju*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. adjugatus, p. p. of adjugare; ad + jugum
a yoke.]

Defn: To yoke to. [Obs.]

ADJUMENT
Ad"ju*ment, n. Etym: [L. adjumentum, for adjuvamentum, fr. adjuvare
to help; ad + juvare to help.]

Defn: Help; support; also, a helper. [Obs.] Waterhouse.

ADJUNCT
Ad"junct`, a. Etym: [L. adjunctus, p. p. of adjungere. See Adjoin.]

Defn: Conjoined; attending; consequent.
Though that my death were adjunct to my act. Shak.
Adjunct notes (Mus.), short notes between those essential to the
harmony; auxiliary notes; passing notes.

ADJUNCT
Ad"junct`, n.

1. Something joined or added to another thing, but not essentially a
part of it.
Learning is but an adjunct to our self. Shak.

2. A person joined to another in some duty or service; a colleague;
an associate. Wotton.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: A word or words added to quality or amplify the force of other
words; as, the History of the American Revolution, where the words in
italics are the adjunct or adjuncts of "History."

4. (Metaph.)

Defn: A quality or property of the body or the mind, whether natural
or acquired; as, color, in the body, judgment in the mind.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: A key or scale closely related to another as principal; a
relative or attendant key. [R.] See Attendant keys, under Attendant,
a.

ADJUNCTION
Ad*junc"tion, n. Etym: [L. adjunctio, fr. adjungere: cf. F.
adjonction, and see Adjunct.]

Defn: The act of joining; the thing joined or added.

ADJUNCTIVE
Ad*junc"tive, a. Etym: [L. adjunctivus, fr. adjungere. See Adjunct.]

Defn: Joining; having the quality of joining; forming an adjunct.

ADJUNCTIVE
Ad*junc"tive, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, is joined.

ADJUNCTIVELY
Ad*junc"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adjunctive manner.

ADJUNCTLY
Ad*junct"ly, adv.

Defn: By way of addition or adjunct; in connection with.

ADJURATION
Ad`ju*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. adjuratio, fr. adjurare: cf. F.
adjuration. See Adjure.]

1. The act of adjuring; a solemn charging on oath, or under the
penalty of a curse; an earnest appeal.
What an accusation could not effect, an adjuration shall. Bp. Hall.

2. The form of oath or appeal.
Persons who . . . made use of prayer and adjurations. Addison.

ADJURATORY
Ad*ju"ra*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. adjuratorius.]

Defn: Containing an adjuration.

ADJURE
Ad*jure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjured; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjuring].
Etym: [L. adjurare, adjurdium, to swear to; later, to adjure: cf. F.
adjurer. See Jury.]

Defn: To charge, bind, or command, solemnly, as if under oath, or
under the penalty of a curse; to appeal to in the most solemn or
impressive manner; to entreat earnestly.
Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the man before
the Lord, that riseth up and buildeth this city Jericho. Josh. vi.
26.
The high priest . . . said . . . I adjure thee by the living God,
that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ. Matt. xxvi. 63.
The commissioners adjured them not to let pass so favorable an
opportunity of securing their liberties. Marshall.

ADJURER
Ad*jur"er, n.

Defn: One who adjures.

ADJUST
Ad*just", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjusted; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjusting.]
Etym: [OF. ajuster, ajoster (whence F. ajouter to add), LL. adjuxtare
to fit; fr. L. ad + juxta near; confused later with L. ad and justus
just, right, whence F. ajuster to adjust. See Just, v. t. and cf.
Adjute.]

1. To make exact; to fit; to make correspondent or conformable; to
bring into proper relations; as, to adjust a garment to the body, or
things to a standard.

2. To put in order; to regulate, or reduce to system.
Adjusting the orthography. Johnson.

3. To settle or bring to a satisfactory state, so that parties are
agreed in the result; as, to adjust accounts; the differences are
adjusted.

4. To bring to a true relative position, as the parts of an
instrument; to regulate for use; as, to adjust a telescope or
microscope.

Syn.
 -- To adapt; suit; arrange; regulate; accommodate; set right;
rectify; settle.

ADJUSTABLE
Ad*just"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being adjusted.

ADJUSTAGE
Ad*just"age, n. Etym: [Cf. Ajutage.]

Defn: Adjustment. [R.]

ADJUSTER
Ad*just"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, adjusts.

ADJUSTING PLANE; ADJUSTING SURFACE
Adjusting plane or surface. (Aëronautics)

Defn: A small plane or surface, usually capable of adjustment but not
of manipulation, for preserving lateral balance in an aëroplane or
flying machine.

ADJUSTIVE
Ad*just"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to adjust. [R.]

ADJUSTMENT
Ad*just"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ajustement. See Adjust.]

1. The act of adjusting, or condition of being adjusted; act of
bringing into proper relations; regulation.
Success depends on the nicest and minutest adjustment of the parts
concerned. Paley.

2. (Law)

Defn: Settlement of claims; an equitable arrangement of conflicting
claims, as in set-off, contribution, exoneration, subrogation, and
marshaling. Bispham.

3. The operation of bringing all the parts of an instrument, as a
microscope or telescope, into their proper relative position for use;
the condition of being thus adjusted; as, to get a good adjustment;
to be in or out of adjustment.

Syn.
 -- Suiting; fitting; arrangement; regulation; settlement;
adaptation; disposition.

ADJUTAGE
Ad"ju*tage, n.

Defn: Same as Ajutage.

ADJUTANCY
Ad"ju*tan*cy, n. Etym: [See Adjutant.]

1. The office of an adjutant.

2. Skillful arrangement in aid; assistance.
It was, no doubt, disposed with all the adjutancy of definition and
division. Burke.

ADJUTANT
Ad"ju*tant, n. Etym: [L. adjutans, p. pr. of adjutare to help. See
Aid.]

1. A helper; an assistant.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A regimental staff officer, who assists the colonel, or
commanding officer of a garrison or regiment, in the details of
regimental and garrison duty. Adjutant general (a) (Mil.), the
principal staff officer of an army, through whom the commanding
general receives communications and issues military orders. In the U.
S. army he is brigadier general. (b) (Among the Jesuits), one of a
select number of fathers, who resided with the general of the order,
each of whom had a province or country assigned to his care.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of very large stork (Ciconia argala), a native of
India; -- called also the gigantic crane, and by the native name
argala. It is noted for its serpent-destroying habits.

ADJUTATOR
Ad"ju*ta`tor, n. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A corruption of Agitator.

ADJUTE
Ad*jute", v. t. Etym: [F. ajouter; confused with L. adjutare.]

Defn: To add. [Obs.]

ADJUTOR
Ad*ju"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. adjuvare. See Aid.]

Defn: A helper or assistant. [Archaic] Drayton.

ADJUTORY
Ad*ju"to*ry, a. Etym: [L. adjutorius.]

Defn: Serving to help or assist; helping. [Obs.]

ADJUTRIX
Ad*ju"trix, n. Etym: [L. See Adjutor.]

Defn: A female helper or assistant. [R.]

ADJUVANT
Ad"ju*vant, a. Etym: [L. adjuvans, p. pr. of adjuvare to aid: cf. F.
adjuvant. See Aid.]

Defn: Helping; helpful; assisting. [R.] "Adjuvant causes." Howell.

ADJUVANT
Ad"ju*vant, n.

1. An assistant. [R.] Yelverton.

2. (Med.)

Defn: An ingredient, in a prescription, which aids or modifies the
action of the principal ingredient.

ADLEGATION
Ad`le*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. adlegatio, allegatio, a sending away; fr.
adlegare, allegare, to send away with a commission; ad in addition +
legare to send as ambassador. Cf. Allegation.]

Defn: A right formerly claimed by the states of the German Empire of
joining their own ministers with those of the emperor in public
treaties and negotiations to the common interest of the empire.
Encyc. Brit.

AD LIBITUM
Ad lib"i*tum

Defn: . At one's pleasure; as one wishes.

ADLOCUTION
Ad`lo*cu"tion, n.

Defn: See Allocution. [Obs.]

ADMARGINATE
Ad*mar"gin*ate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + margin.]

Defn: To write in the margin. [R.] Coleridge.

ADMAXILLARY
Ad*max"il*la*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. ad- + maxillary.] (Anat.)

Defn: Near to the maxilla or jawbone.

ADMEASURE
Ad*meas"ure, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OF. amesurer, LL. admensurare. See
Measure.]

1. To measure.

2. (Law)

Defn: To determine the proper share of, or the proper apportionment;
as, to admeasure dower; to admeasure common of pasture. Blackstone.

2. The measure of a thing; dimensions; size.

3. (Law)

Defn: Formerly, the adjustment of proportion, or ascertainment of
shares, as of dower or pasture held in common. This was by writ of
admeasurement, directed to the sheriff.

ADMEASURER
Ad*meas"ur*er, n.

Defn: One who admeasures.

ADMENSURATION
Ad*men`su*ra"tion, n. Etym: [LL. admensuratio; L. ad + mensurare to
measure. See Mensuration.]

Defn: Same as Admeasurement.

ADMINICLE
Ad*min"i*cle, n. Etym: [L. adminculum support, orig., that on which
the hand rests; ad + manus hand + dim. ending -culym.]

1. Help or support; an auxiliary. Grote.

2. (Law)

Defn: Corroborative or explanatory proof.

Note: In Scots law, any writing tending to establish the existence or
terms of a lost deed. Bell.

ADMINICULAR
Ad`mi*nic"u*lar, a.

Defn: Supplying help; auxiliary; corroborative; explanatory; as,
adminicular evidence. H. Spencer.

ADMINICULARY
Ad`mi*nic"u*la*ry, a.

Defn: Adminicular.

ADMINISTER
Ad*min"is*ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Administered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Administering.] Etym: [OE. aministren, OF. aministrer, F. administer,
fr. L. administrare; ad + ministrare to serve. See Minister.]

1. To manage or conduct, as public affairs; to direct or superintend
the execution, application, or conduct of; as, to administer the
government or the state.
For forms of government let fools contest: Whate'er is best
administered is best. Pope.

2. To dispense; to serve out; to supply; execute; as, to administer
relief, to administer the sacrament.
[Let zephyrs] administer their tepid, genial airs. Philips.
Justice was administered with an exactness and purity not before
known. Macaulay.

3. To apply, as medicine or a remedy; to give, as a dose or something
beneficial or suitable. Extended to a blow, a reproof, etc.
A noxious drug had been administered to him. Macaulay.

4. To tender, as an oath.
Swear . . . to keep the oath that we administer. Shak.

5. (Law)

Defn: To settle, as the estate of one who dies without a will, or
whose will fails of an executor.

Syn.
 -- To manage; conduct; minister; supply; dispense; give out;
distribute; furnish.

ADMINISTER
Ad*min"is*ter, v. i.

1. To contribute; to bring aid or supplies; to conduce; to minister.
A fountain . . . administers to the pleasure as well as the plenty of
the place. Spectator.

2. (Law)

Defn: To perform the office of administrator; to act officially; as,
A administers upon the estate of B.

ADMINISTER
Ad*min"is*ter, n.

Defn: Administrator. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADMINISTERIAL
Ad*min`is*te"ri*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to administration, or to the executive part of
government.

ADMINISTRABLE
Ad*min"is*tra*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being administered; as, an administrable law.

ADMINISTRANT
Ad*min"is*trant, a. Etym: [F., p. pr. of administrer. See
Administer.]

Defn: Executive; acting; managing affairs.
 -- n.

Defn: One who administers.

ADMINISTRATE
Ad*min"is*trate, v. t. Etym: [L. administratus, p. p. of
administrare.]

Defn: To administer. [R.] Milman.

ADMINISTRATION
Ad*min`is*tra"tion, n. Etym: [OE. administracioun, L. administratio:
cf. F. administration.]

1. The act of administering; government of public affairs; the
service rendered, or duties assumed, in conducting affairs; the
conducting of any office or employment; direction; management.
His financial administration was of a piece with his military
administration. Macaulay.

2. The executive part of government; the persons collectively who are
intrusted with the execution of laws and the superintendence of
public affairs; the chief magistrate and his cabinet or council; or
the council, or ministry, alone, as in Great Britain.
A mild and popular administration. Macaulay.
The administration has been opposed in parliament. Johnson.

3. The act of administering, or tendering something to another;
dispensation; as, the administration of a medicine, of an oath, of
justice, or of the sacrament.

4. (Law)
(a) The management and disposal, under legal authority, of the estate
of an intestate, or of a testator having no competent executor.
(b) The management of an estate of a deceased person by an executor,
the strictly corresponding term execution not being in use.
Administration with the will annexed, administration granted where
the testator has appointed no executor, or where his appointment of
an executor for any cause has failed, as by death, incompetency,
refusal to act, etc.

Syn.
 -- Conduct; management; direction; regulation; execution;
dispensation; distribution.

ADMINISTRATIVE
Ad*min"is*tra`tive, a. Etym: [L. administrativus: cf. F.
administratif.]

Defn: Pertaining to administration; administering; executive; as, an
administrative body, ability, or energy.
 -- Ad*min"is*tra`tive*ly, adv.

ADMINISTRATOR
Ad*min`is*tra"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who administers affairs; one who directs, manages, executes,
or dispenses, whether in civil, judicial, political, or
ecclesiastical affairs; a manager.

2. (Law)

Defn: A man who manages or settles the estate of an intestate, or of
a testator when there is no competent executor; one to whom the right
of administration has been committed by competent authority.

ADMINISTRATORSHIP
Ad*min`is*tra"tor*ship, n.

Defn: The position or office of an administrator.

ADMINISTRATRIX
Ad*min`is*tra"trix, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A woman who administers; esp., one who administers the estate
of an intestate, or to whom letters of administration have been
granted; a female administrator.

ADMIRABILITY
Ad`mi*ra*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. admirabilitac.]

Defn: Admirableness. [R.] Johnson.

ADMIRABLE
Ad"mi*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. admirabilis: cf. F. admirable.]

1. Fitted to excite wonder; wonderful; marvelous. [Obs.]
In man there is nothing admirable but his ignorance and weakness.
Jer. Taylor.

2. Having qualities to excite wonder united with approbation;
deserving the highest praise; most excellent; -- used of persons or
things. "An admirable machine." "Admirable fortitude." Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Wonderful; marvelous; surprising; excellent; delightful;
praiseworthy.

ADMIRABLENESS
Ad"mi*ra*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being admirable; wonderful excellence.

ADMIRABLY
Ad"mi*ra*bly, adv.

Defn: In an admirable manner.

ADMIRAL
Ad"mi*ral, n. Etym: [OE. amiral, admiral, OF. amiral, ultimately fr.
Ar. amir-al-bahr commander of the sea; Ar. amir is commander, al is
the Ar. article, and amir-al, heard in different titles, was taken as
one word. Early forms of the word show confusion with L. admirabilis
admirable, fr. admirari to admire. It is said to have been introduced
into Europe by the Genoese or Venetians, in the 12th or 13th century.
Cf. Ameer, Emir.]

1. A naval officer of the highest rank; a naval officer of high rank,
of which there are different grades. The chief gradations in rank are
admiral, vice admiral, and rear admiral. The admiral is the commander
in chief of a fleet or of fleets.

2. The ship which carries the admiral; also, the most considerable
ship of a fleet.
Like some mighty admiral, dark and terrible, bearing down upon his
antagonist with all his canvas straining to the wind, and all his
thunders roaring from his broadsides. E. Everett.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A handsome butterfly (Pyrameis Atalanta) of Europe and America.
The larva feeds on nettles. Admiral shell (Zoöl.), the popular name
of an ornamental cone shell (Conus admiralis). Lord High Admiral, a
great officer of state, who (when this rare dignity is conferred) is
at the head of the naval administration of Great Britain.

ADMIRALSHIP
Ad"mi*ral*ship, n.

Defn: The office or position oaf an admiral; also, the naval skill of
an admiral.

ADMIRALTY
Ad"mi*ral*ty, n.; pl. Admiralties. Etym: [F. amirauté, for an older
amiralté, office of admiral, fr. LL. admiralitas. See Admiral.]

1. The office or jurisdiction of an admiral. Prescott.

2. The department or officers having authority over naval affairs
generally.

3. The court which has jurisdiction of maritime questions and
offenses.

Note: In England, admiralty jurisdiction was formerly vested in the
High Court of Admiralty, which was held before the Lord High Admiral,
or his deputy, styled the Judge of the Admiralty; but admiralty
jurisdiction is now vested in the probate, divorce, and admiralty
division of the High Justice. In America, there are no admiralty
courts distinct from others, but admiralty jurisdiction is vested in
the district courts of the United States, subject to revision by the
circuit courts and the Supreme Court of the United States. Admiralty
jurisprudence has cognizance of maritime contracts and torts,
collisions at sea, cases of prize in war, etc., and in America,
admiralty jurisdiction is extended to such matters, arising out of
the navigation of any of the public waters, as the Great Lakes and
rivers.

4. The system of jurisprudence of admiralty courts.

5. The building in which the lords of the admiralty, in England,
transact business.

ADMIRANCE
Ad*mir"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. admirance.]

Defn: Admiration. [Obs.] Spenser.

ADMIRATION
Ad`mi*ra"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. admiratio. See Admire.]

1. Wonder; astonishment. [Obs.]
Season your admiration for a while. Shak.

2. Wonder mingled with approbation or delight; an emotion excited by
a person or thing possessed of wonderful or high excellence; as,
admiration of a beautiful woman, of a landscape, of virtue.

3. Cause of admiration; something to excite wonder, or pleased
surprise; a prodigy.
Now, good Lafeu, bring in the admiration. Shak.
Note of admiration, the mark (!), called also exclamation point.

Syn.
 -- Wonder; approval; appreciation; adoration; reverence; worship.

ADMIRATIVE
Ad*mir"a*tive, a.

Defn: Relating to or expressing admiration or wonder. [R.] Earle.

ADMIRE
Ad*mire", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Admired; p. pr. & vb. n. Admiring.]
Etym: [F. admirer, fr. L. admirari; ad + mirari to wonder, for
smirari, akin to Gr. smi, and E. smile.]

1. To regard with wonder or astonishment; to view with surprise; to
marvel at. [Archaic]
Examples rather to be admired than imitated. Fuller.

2. To regard with wonder and delight; to look upon with an elevated
feeling of pleasure, as something which calls out approbation,
esteem, love, or reverence; to estimate or prize highly; as, to
admire a person of high moral worth, to admire a landscape.
Admired as heroes and as gods obeyed. Pope.

Note: Admire followed by the infinitive is obsolete or colloquial;
as, I admire to see a man consistent in his conduct.

Syn.
 -- To esteem; approve; delight in.

ADMIRE
Ad*mire", v. i.

Defn: To wonder; to marvel; to be affected with surprise; --
sometimes with at.
To wonder at Pharaoh, and even admire at myself. Fuller.

ADMIRED
Ad*mired", a.

1. Regarded with wonder and delight; highly prized; as, an admired
poem.

2. Wonderful; also, admirable. [Obs.] "Admired disorder." " Admired
Miranda." Shak.

ADMIRER
Ad*mir"er, n.

Defn: One who admires; one who esteems or loves greatly. Cowper.

ADMIRING
Ad*mir"ing, a.

Defn: Expressing admiration; as, an admiring glance.
 -- Ad*mir"ing*ly, adv. Shak.

ADMISSIBILITY
Ad*mis`si*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. admissibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being admissible; admissibleness; as, the
admissibility of evidence.

ADMISSIBLE
Ad*mis"si*ble, a. Etym: [F. admissible, LL. admissibilis. See Admit.]

Defn: Entitled to be admitted, or worthy of being admitted; that may
be allowed or conceded; allowable; as, the supposition is hardly
admissible.
 -- Ad*mis"si*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ad*mis"si*bly, adv.

ADMISSION
Ad*mis"sion, n. Etym: [L. admissio: cf. F. admission. See Admit.]

1. The act or practice of admitting.

2. Power or permission to enter; admittance; entrance; access; power
to approach.
What numbers groan for sad admission there! Young.

3. The granting of an argument or position not fully proved; the act
of acknowledging something
The too easy admission of doctrines. Macaulay.

4. (Law)

Defn: Acquiescence or concurrence in a statement made by another, and
distinguishable from a confession in that an admission presupposes
prior inquiry by another, but a confession may be made without such
inquiry.

5. A fact, point, or statement admitted; as, admission made out of
court are received in evidence.

6. (Eng. Eccl. Law)

Defn: Declaration of the bishop that he approves of the presentee as
a fit person to serve the cure of the church to which he is
presented. Shipley.

Syn.
 -- Admittance; concession; acknowledgment; concurrence; allowance.
See Admittance.

ADMISSIVE
Ad*mis"sive, a.

Defn: Implying an admission; tending to admit. [R.] Lamb.

ADMISSORY
Ad*mis"so*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to admission.

ADMIT
Ad*mit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Admitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Admitting.]
Etym: [OE. amitten, L. admittere, admissum; ad + mittere to send: cf.
F. admettre, OF. admettre, OF. ametre. See Missile.]

1. To suffer to enter; to grant entrance, whether into a place, or
into the mind, or consideration; to receive; to take; as, they were
into his house; to admit a serious thought into the mind; to admit
evidence in the trial of a cause.

2. To give a right of entrance; as, a ticket one into a playhouse.

3. To allow (one) to enter on an office or to enjoy a privilege; to
recognize as qualified for a franchise; as, to admit an attorney to
practice law; the prisoner was admitted to bail.

4. To concede as true; to acknowledge or assent to, as an allegation
which it is impossible to deny; to own or confess; as, the argument
or fact is admitted; he admitted his guilt.

5. To be capable of; to permit; as, the words do not admit such a
construction. In this sense, of may be used after the verb, or may be
omitted.
Both Houses declared that they could admit of no treaty with the
king. Hume.

ADMITTABLE
Ad*mit"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Admissible. Sir T. Browne.

ADMITTANCE
Ad*mit"tance, n.

1. The act of admitting.

2. Permission to enter; the power or right of entrance; also, actual
entrance; reception.
To gain admittance into the house. South.
He desires admittance to the king. Dryden.
To give admittance to a thought of fear. Shak.

3. Concession; admission; allowance; as, the admittance of an
argument. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

4. Admissibility. [Obs.] Shak.

5. (Eng. Law)

Defn: The act of giving possession of a copyhold estate. Bouvier.

Syn.
 -- Admission; access; entrance; initiation.
 -- Admittance, Admission. These words are, to some extent, in a
state of transition and change. Admittance is now chiefly confined to
its primary sense of access into some locality or building. Thus we
see on the doors of factories, shops, etc. "No admittance." Its
secondary or moral sense, as "admittance to the church," is almost
entirely laid aside. Admission has taken to itself the secondary or
figurative senses; as, admission to the rights of citizenship;
admission to the church; the admissions made by one of the parties in
a dispute. And even when used in its primary sense, it is not
identical with admittance. Thus, we speak of admission into a
country, territory, and other larger localities, etc., where
admittance could not be used. So, when we speak of admission to a
concert or other public assembly, the meaning is not perhaps exactly
that of admittance, viz., access within the walls of the building,
but rather a reception into the audience, or access to the
performances. But the lines of distinction on this subject are one
definitely drawn.

ADMITTATUR
Ad`mit*ta"tur, n. Etym: [L., let him be admitted.]

Defn: The certificate of admission given in some American colleges.

ADMITTED; ADMITTEDLY
Ad*mit"ted, a.

Defn: Received as true or valid; acknowledged.
 -- Ad*mit"ted*ly adv.

Defn: Confessedly.

ADMITTER
Ad*mit"ter, n.

Defn: One who admits.

ADMIX
Ad*mix", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + mix: cf. L. admixtus, p. p. of
admiscere. See Mix.]

Defn: To mingle with something else; to mix. [R.]

ADMIXTION
Ad*mix"tion, n. Etym: [L. admixtio.]

Defn: A mingling of different things; admixture. Glanvill.

ADMIXTURE
Ad*mix"ture, n. Etym: [L. admiscere, admixtum, to admix; ad + miscere
to mix. See Mix.]

1. The act of mixing; mixture.

2. The compound formed by mixing different substances together.

3. That which is mixed with anything.

ADMONISH
Ad*mon"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Admonished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Admonishing.] Etym: [OE. amonesten, OF. amonester, F. admonester, fr.
a supposed LL. admonesstrare, fr. L. admonere to remind, warn; ad +
monere to warn. See Monition.]

1. To warn or notify of a fault; to reprove gently or kindly, but
seriously; to exhort. "Admonish him as a brother." 2 Thess. iii. 15.

2. To counsel against wrong practices; to cation or advise; to warn
against danger or an offense; -- followed by of, against, or a
subordinate clause.
Admonishing one another in psalms and hymns. Col. iii. 16.
I warned thee, I admonished thee, foretold The danger, and the
lurking enemy. Milton.

3. To instruct or direct; to inform; to notify.
Moses was admonished of God, when he was about to make the
tabernacle. Heb. viii. 5.

ADMONISHER
Ad*mon"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who admonishes.

ADMONISHMENT
Ad*mon"ish*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. amonestement, admonestement.]

Defn: Admonition. [R.] Shak.

ADMONITION
Ad`mo*ni"tion, n. Etym: [OE. amonicioun, OF. amonition, F.
admonition, fr. L. admonitio, fr. admonere. See Admonish.]

Defn: Gentle or friendly reproof; counseling against a fault or
error; expression of authoritative advice; friendly caution or
warning.

Syn.
 -- Admonition, Reprehension, Reproof. Admonition is prospective, and
relates to moral delinquencies; its object is to prevent further
transgression. Reprehension and reproof are retrospective, the former
being milder than the latter. A person of any age or station may be
liable to reprehension in case of wrong conduct; but reproof is the
act of a superior. It is authoritative fault-finding or censure
addressed to children or to inferiors.

ADMONITIONER
Ad`mo*ni"tion*er, n.

Defn: Admonisher. [Obs.]

ADMONITIVE
Ad*mon"i*tive, a.

Defn: Admonitory. [R.] Barrow.
 -- Ad*mon"i*tive*ly, adv.

ADMONITOR
Ad*mon"i*tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Admonisher; monitor.
Conscience is at most times a very faithful and prudent admonitor.
Shenstone.

ADMONITORIAL
Ad*mon`i*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Admonitory. [R.] "An admonitorial tone." Dickens.

ADMONITORY
Ad*mon"i*to*ry, a. Etym: [LL. admonitorius.]

Defn: That conveys admonition; warning or reproving; as, an
admonitory glance.
 -- Ad*mon"i*to*ri*ly,, adv.

ADMONITRIX
Ad*mon"i*trix, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A female admonitor.

ADMORTIZATION
Ad*mor`ti*za"tion, n. Etym: [LL. admortizatio. Cf. Amortization.]
(Law)

Defn: The reducing or lands or tenements to mortmain. See Mortmain.

ADMOVE
Ad*move", v. t. Etym: [L. admovere. See Move.]

Defn: To move or conduct to or toward. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ADNASCENT
Ad*nas"cent, a. Etym: [L. adnascens, p. pr. of adnasci to be born,
grow.]

Defn: Growing to or on something else. "An adnascent plant." Evelyn.

ADNATE
Ad"nate, a. Etym: [L. adnatus, p. p. of adnasci. See Adnascent, and
cf. Agnate.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: Grown to congenitally.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing together; -- said only of organic cohesion of unlike
parts.
An anther is adnate when fixed by its whole length to the filament.
Gray.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Growing with one side adherent to a stem; -- a term applied to
the lateral zooids of corals and other compound animals.

ADNATION
Ad*na"tion, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The adhesion or cohesion of different floral verticils or sets
of organs.

ADNOMINAL
Ad*nom"i*nal, a. Etym: [L. ad + nomen noun.] (Gram.)

Defn: Pertaining to an adnoun; adjectival; attached to a noun. Gibbs.
 -- Ad*nom"i*nal*ly, adv.

ADNOUN
Ad"noun`, n. Etym: [Pref. ad- + noun.] (Gram.)

Defn: An adjective, or attribute. [R.] Coleridge.

ADNUBILATED
Ad*nu"bi*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. adnubilatus, p. p. of adnubilare.]

Defn: Clouded; obscured. [R.]

ADO
A*do", (1) v. inf., (2) n. Etym: [OE. at do, northern form for to do.
Cf. Affair.]

1. To do; in doing; as, there is nothing. "What is here ado" J.
Newton.

2. Doing; trouble; difficulty; troublesome business; fuss; bustle;
as, to make a great ado about trifles.
With much ado, he partly kept awake. Dryden.
Let's follow to see the end of this ado. Shak.

ADOBE
A*do"be, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: An unburnt brick dried in the sun; also used as an adjective,
as, an adobe house, in Texas or New Mexico.

ADOLESCENCE
Ad`o*les"cence, n. Etym: [Fr., fr. L. adolescentia.]

Defn: The state of growing up from childhood to manhood or womanhood;
youth, or the period of life between puberty and maturity, generally
considered to be, in the male sex, from fourteen to twenty-one.
Sometimes used with reference to the lower animals.

ADOLESCENCY
Ad`o*les"cen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being adolescent; youthfulness.

ADOLESCENT
Ad`o*les"cent, a. Etym: [L. adolescens, p. pr. of adolescere to grow
up to; ad + the inchoative olescere to grow: cf. F. adolescent. See
Adult.]

Defn: Growing; advancing from childhood to maturity.
Schools, unless discipline were doubly strong, Detain their
adolescent charge too long. Cowper.

ADOLESCENT
Ad`o*les"cent, n.

Defn: A youth.

ADONAI
Ad`o*na"i, n. [Heb. adonai, lit., my lord.]

Defn: A Hebrew name for God, usually translated in the Old Testament
by the word "Lord".

 The later Jews used its vowel points to fill out the tetragrammaton
Yhvh, or Ihvh, "the incommunicable name," and in reading substituted
"Adonai".

ADONEAN
Ad`o*ne"an, a. Etym: [L. Adon.]

Defn: Pertaining to Adonis; Adonic. "Fair Adonean Venus." Faber.

ADONIC
A*don"ic, a. Etym: [F. adonique: cf. L. Adonius.]

Defn: Relating to Adonis, famed for his beauty.
 -- n.

Defn: An Adonic verse. Adonic verse, a verse consisting of a dactyl
and spondee.

ADONIS
A*do"nis, n. Etym: [L., gr. Gr.

1. (Gr. Myth.)

Defn: A youth beloved by Venus for his beauty. He was killed in the
chase by a wild boar.

2. A preëminently beautiful young man; a dandy.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the family Ranunculaceæ, containing the
pheasaut's eye (Adonis autumnalis); -- named from Adonis, whose blood
was fabled to have stained the flower.

ADONIST
A*do"nist, n. Etym: [Heb. my Lords.]

Defn: One who maintains that points of the Hebrew word translated
"Jehovah" are really the vowel points of the word "Adonai." See
Jehovist.

ADONIZE
Ad"o*nize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. adoniser, fr. Adonis.]

Defn: To beautify; to dandify.
I employed three good hours at least in adjusting and adonozing
myself. Smollett.

ADOOR; ADOORS
A*door, A*doors,

Defn: At the door; of the door; as, out adoors. Shak.
I took him in adoors. Vicar's Virgil (1630).

ADOPT
A*dopt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adopted; p. pr. & vb. n. Adopting.]
Etym: [L. adoptare; ad + optare to choose, desire: cf. F. adopter.
See Option.]

1. To take by choice into relationship, as, child, heir, friend,
citizen, etc. ; esp. to take voluntarily (a child of other parents)
to be in the place of, or as, one's own child.

2. To take or receive as one's own what is not so naturally; to
select and take or approve; as, to adopt the view or policy of
another; these resolutions were adopted.

ADOPTABLE
A*dopt"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being adopted.

ADOPTED
A*dopt"ed, a.

Defn: Taken by adoption; taken up as one's own; as, an adopted son,
citizen, country, word.
 -- A*dopt"ed*ly, adv.

ADOPTER
A*dopt"er, n.

1. One who adopts.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A receiver, with two necks, opposite to each other, one of
which admits the neck of a retort, and the other is joined to another
receiver. It is used in distillations, to give more space to elastic
vapors, to increase the length of the neck of a retort, or to unite
two vessels whose openings have different diameters. [Written also
adapter.]

ADOPTION
A*dop"tion, n. Etym: [L. adoptio, allied to adoptare to adopt: cf. F.
adoption.]

1. The act of adopting, or state of being adopted; voluntary
acceptance of a child of other parents to be the same as one's own
child.

2. Admission to a more intimate relation; reception; as, the adoption
of persons into hospitals or monasteries, or of one society into
another.

3. The choosing and making that to be one's own which originally was
not so; acceptance; as, the adoption of opinions. Jer. Taylor.

ADOPTIONIST
A*dop"tion*ist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect which maintained that Christ was the Son of God
not by nature but by adoption.

ADOPTIOUS
A*dop"tious, a.

Defn: Adopted. [Obs.]

ADOPTIVE
A*dopt"ive, a. Etym: [L. adoptivus: cf. F. adoptif.]

Defn: Pertaining to adoption; made or acquired by adoption; fitted to
adopt; as, an adoptive father, an child; an adoptive language.
 -- A*dopt"ive*ly, adv.

ADORABILITY
A*dor`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Adorableness.

ADORABLE
A*dor"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. adorabilis, fr. adorare: cf. F. adorable.]

1. Deserving to be adored; worthy of divine honors.
The adorable Author of Christianity. Cheyne.

2. Worthy of the utmost love or respect.

ADORABLENESS
A*dor"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adorable, or worthy of adoration. Johnson.

ADORABLY
A*dor"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an adorable manner.

ADORATION
Ad`o*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. adoratio, fr. adorare: cf. F. adoration.]

1. The act of playing honor to a divine being; the worship paid to
God; the act of addressing as a god.
The more immediate objects of popular adoration amongst the heathens
were deified human beings. Farmer.

2. Homage paid to one in high esteem; profound veneration; intense
regard and love; fervent devotion.

3. A method of electing a pope by the expression of homage from two
thirds of the conclave.
[Pole] might have been chosen on the spot by adoration. Froude.

ADORE
A*dore", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adored; p. pr. & vb. n. Adoring.] Etym:
[OE. aouren, anouren, adoren, OF. aorer, adorer, F. adorer, fr. L.
adorare; ad + orare to speak, pray, os, oris, mouth. In OE. confused
with honor, the French prefix a- being confused with OE. a, an, on.
See Oral.]

1. To worship with profound reverence; to pay divine honors to; to
honor as deity or as divine.
Bishops and priests, . . . bearing the host, which he [James adored.
Smollett.

2. To love in the highest degree; to regard with the utmost esteem
and affection; to idolize.
The great mass of the population abhorred Popery and adored Montouth.
Macaulay.

ADORE
A*dore", v. t.

Defn: To adorn. [Obs.]
Congealed little drops which do the morn adore. Spenser.

ADOREMENT
A*dore"ment, n.

Defn: The act of adoring; adoration. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ADORER
A*dor"er, n.

Defn: One who adores; a worshiper; one who admires or loves greatly;
an ardent admirer. "An adorer of truth." Clarendon.
I profess myself her adorer, not her friend. Shak.

ADORINGLY
A*dor"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With adoration.

ADORN
A*dorn", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adorned; p. pr. & vb. n. Adorning.]
Etym: [OE. aournen, anournen, adornen, OF. aorner, fr. L. aaornare;
ad + ornare to furnish, embellish. See Adore, Ornate.]

Defn: To deck or dress with ornaments; to embellish; to set off to
advantage; to render pleasing or attractive.
As a bride adorneth herself with her jewels. Isa. lxi. 10.
At church, with meek and unaffected grace, His looks adorned the
venerable place. Goldsmith.

Syn.
 -- To deck; decorate; embellish; ornament; beautify; grace; dignify;
exalt; honor.
 -- To Adorn, Ornament, Decorate, Embellish. We decorate and ornament
by putting on some adjunct which is attractive or beautiful, and
which serves to heighten the general effect. Thus, a lady's head-
dress may be ornament or decorated with flowers or jewelry; a hall
may be decorated or ornament with carving or gilding, with wreaths of
flowers, or with hangings. Ornament is used in a wider sense than
decorate. To embellish is to beautify or ornament richly, not so much
by mere additions or details as by modifying the thing itself as a
whole. It sometimes means gaudy and artificial decoration. We
embellish a book with rich engravings; a style is embellished with
rich and beautiful imagery; a shopkeeper embellishes his front window
to attract attention. Adorn is sometimes identical with decorate, as
when we say, a lady was adorned with jewels. In other cases, it seems
to imply something more. Thus, we speak of a gallery of paintings as
adorned with the works of some of the great masters, or adorned with
noble statuary and columns. Here decorated and ornamented would
hardly be appropriate. There is a value in these works of genius
beyond mere show and ornament. Adorn may be used of what is purely
moral; as, a character adorned with every Christian grace. Here
neither decorate, nor ornament, nor embellish is proper.

ADORN
A*dorn", n.

Defn: Adornment. [Obs.] Spenser.

ADORN
A*dorn", a.

Defn: Adorned; decorated. [Obs.] Milton.

ADORNATION
Ad`or*na"tion, n.

Defn: Adornment. [Obs.]

ADORNER
A*dorn"er, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, adorns; a beautifier.

ADORNINGLY
A*dorn"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By adorning; decoratively.

ADORNMENT
A*dorn"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. adornement. See Adorn.]

Defn: An adorning; an ornament; a decoration.

ADOSCULATION
Ad*os"cu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. adosculari, adosculatum, to kiss. See
Osculate.] (Biol.)

Defn: Impregnation by external contact, without intromission.

ADOWN
A*down", adv. Etym: [OE. adun, adoun, adune. AS. of dune off the
hill. See Down.]

Defn: From a higher to a lower situation; downward; down, to or on
the ground. [Archaic] "Thrice did she sink adown." Spenser.

ADOWN
A*down", prep.

Defn: Down. [Archaic & Poetic]
Her hair adown her shoulders loosely lay displayed. Prior.

ADPRESS
Ad*press", v. t. Etym: [L. adpressus, p. p. of adprimere.]

Defn: See Appressed.
 -- Ad*pressed",, a.

ADRAD
A*drad", p. a. Etym: [P. p. of adread.]

Defn: Put in dread; afraid. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ADRAGANT
Ad"ra*gant, n. Etym: [F., a corruption of tragacanth.]

Defn: Gum tragacanth. Brande & C.

ADREAD
A*dread", v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. andrædan, ondræ; pref. a- (for and
against) + dræden to dread. See Dread.]

Defn: To dread. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

ADREAMED
A*dreamed", p. p.

Defn: Visited by a dream; -- used in the phrase, To be adreamed, to
dream. [Obs.]

ADRENAL
Ad*re"nal, a. Etym: [Pref. ad- + renal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Suprarenal.

ADRENALINE; ADRENALIN
Ad*re"nal*ine, n. Also Ad*re"nal*in. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline substance, C9H13O3N, obtained from suprarenal
extract, of which it is regarded as the active principle. It is used
in medicine as a stimulant and hemostatic.

ADRIAN
A"dri*an, a. Etym: [L. Hadrianus.]

Defn: Pertaining to the Adriatic Sea; as, Adrian billows.

ADRIATIC
A`dri*at"ic, a. Etym: [L. Adriaticus, Hadriaticus, fr. Adria or
Hadria, a town of the Veneti.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sea so named, the northwestern part of
which is known as the Gulf of Venice.

ADRIFT
A*drift", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- (for on) + drift.]

Defn: Floating at random; in a drifting condition; at the mercy of
wind and waves. Also fig.
So on the sea shall be set adrift. Dryden.
Were from their daily labor turned adrift. Wordsworth.

ADRIP
A*drip", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- in + drip.]

Defn: In a dripping state; as, leaves all adrip. D. G. Mitchell.

ADROGATE
Ad"ro*gate, v. t. Etym: [See Arrogate.] (Rom. Law)

Defn: To adopt (a person who is his own master).

ADROGATION
Ad`ro*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. adrogatio, arrogatio, fr. adrogare. See
Arrogate.] (Rom. Law)

Defn: A kind of adoption in ancient Rome. See Arrogation.

ADROIT
A*droit", a. Etym: [F. adroit; à (L. ad) = droit straight, right, fr.
L. directus, p. p. of dirigere. See Direct.]

Defn: Dexterous in the use of the hands or in the exercise of the
mental faculties; exhibiting skill and readiness in avoiding danger
or escaping difficulty; ready in invention or execution; -- applied
to persons and to acts; as, an adroit mechanic, an adroit reply.
"Adroit in the application of the telescope and quadrant." Horsley.
"He was adroit in intrigue." Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Dexterous; skillful; expert; ready; clever; deft; ingenious;
cunning; ready-witted.

ADROITLY
A*droit"ly, adv.

Defn: In an adroit manner.

ADROITNESS
A*droit"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adroit; skill and readiness; dexterity.
Adroitness was as requisite as courage. Motley.

Syn.
 -- See Skill.

ADRY
A*dry", a. Etym: [Pref. a- (for on) + dry.]

Defn: In a dry or thirsty condition. "A man that is adry." Burton.

ADSCITITIOUS
Ad`sci*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. adscitus, p. p. of adsciscere,
asciscere, to take knowingly; ad + sciscere to seek to know, approve,
scire to know.]

Defn: Supplemental; additional; adventitious; ascititious.
"Adscititious evidence." Bowring.
 -- Ad`sci*ti"tious*ly, adv.

ADSCRIPT
Ad"script, a. Etym: [L. adscriptus, p. p. of adscribere to enroll.
See Ascribe.]

Defn: Held to service as attached to the soil; -- said of feudal
serfs.

ADSCRIPT
Ad"script, n.

Defn: One held to service as attached to the glebe or estate; a
feudal serf. Bancroft.

ADSCRIPTIVE
Ad*scrip"tive, a.Etym: [L. adscriptivus. See Adscript.]

Defn: Attached or annexed to the glebe or estate and transferable
with it. Brougham.

ADSIGNIFICATION
Ad*sig`ni*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Additional signification. [R.] Tooke.

ADSIGNIFY
Ad*sig"ni*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. adsignificare to show.]

Defn: To denote additionally. [R.] Tooke.

ADSTRICT
Ad*strict", v. t.
 -- Ad*stric"tion, n.

Defn: See Astrict, and Astriction.

ADSTRICTORY
Ad*stric"to*ry, a.

Defn: See Astrictory.

ADSTRINGENT
Ad*strin"gent, a.

Defn: See Astringent.

ADSUKI BEAN
Ad*su"ki bean. [Jap. adzuki.]

Defn: A cultivated variety of the Asiatic gram, now introduced into
the United States.

ADULARIA
Ad`u*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [From Adula, a mountain peak in Switzerland,
where fine specimens are found.] (Min.)

Defn: A transparent or translucent variety of common feldspar, or
orthoclase, which often shows pearly opalescent reflections; --
called by lapidaries moonstone.

ADULATE
Ad"u*late, v. t. Etym: [L. adulatus, p. p. of adulari.]

Defn: To flatter in a servile way. Byron.

ADULATION
Ad`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [F. adulation, fr. L. adulatio, fr. adulari,
adulatum, to flatter.]

Defn: Servile flattery; praise in excess, or beyond what is merited.
Think'st thou the fiery fever will go out With titles blown from
adulation Shak.

Syn.
 -- Sycophancy; cringing; fawning; obsequiousness; blandishment.
 -- Adulation, Flattery, Compliment. Men deal in compliments from a
desire to please; they use flattery either from undue admiration, or
a wish to gratify vanity; they practice adulation from sordid
motives, and with a mingled spirit of falsehood and hypocrisy.
Compliment may be a sincere expression of due respect and esteem, or
it may be unmeaning; flattery is apt to become gross; adulation is
always servile, and usually fulsome.

ADULATOR
Ad"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. adulari: cf. F. adulateur.]

Defn: A servile or hypocritical flatterer. Carlyle.

ADULATORY
Ad"u*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. adulatorius, fr. adulari: cf. OF.
adulatoire.]

Defn: Containing excessive praise or compliment; servilely praising;
flattering; as, an adulatory address.
A mere rant of adulatory freedom. Burke.

ADULATRESS
Ad"u*la`tress, n.

Defn: A woman who flatters with servility.

ADULT
A*dult", a. Etym: [L. adultus, p. p. of adolescere, akin to alere to
nourish: cf. F. adulte. See Adolescent, Old.]

Defn: Having arrived at maturity, or to full size and strength;
matured; as, an adult person or plant; an adult ape; an adult age.

ADULT
A*dult", n.

Defn: A person, animal, or plant grown to full size and strength; one
who has reached maturity.

Note: In the common law, the term is applied to a person who has
attained full age or legal majority; in the civil law, to males after
the age of fourteen, and to females after twelve.

ADULTER
A*dul"ter, v. i. Etym: [L. adulterare.]

Defn: To commit adultery; to pollute. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ADULTERANT
A*dul"ter*ant, n. Etym: [L. adulterans, p. pr. of adulterare.]

Defn: That which is used to adulterate anything.
 -- a. Adulterating; as, adulterant agents and processes.

ADULTERATE
A*dul"ter*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adulterated; p. pr. & vb. n
Adulterating.] Etym: [L. adulteratus, p. p. of adulterare, fr.
adulter adulterer, prob. fr. ad + alter other, properly one who
approaches another on account of unlawful love. Cf. Advoutry.]

1. To defile by adultery. [Obs.] Milton.

2. To corrupt, debase, or make impure by an admixture of a foreign or
a baser substance; as, to adulterate food, drink, drugs, coin, etc.
The present war has . . . adulterated our tongue with strange words.
Spectator.

Syn.
 -- To corrupt; defile; debase; contaminate; vitiate; sophisticate.

ADULTERATE
A*dul"ter*ate, v. i.

Defn: To commit adultery. [Obs.]

ADULTERATE
A*dul"ter*ate, a.

1. Tainted with adultery.

2. Debased by the admixture of a foreign substance; adulterated;
spurious.
 -- A*dul"ter*ate*ly, adv.
 -- A*dul"ter*ate*ness, n.

ADULTERATION
A*dul`ter*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. adulteratio.]

1. The act of adulterating; corruption, or debasement (esp. of food
or drink) by foreign mixture.
The shameless adulteration of the coin. Prescott.

2. An adulterated state or product.

ADULTERATOR
A*dul"ter*a`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who adulterates or corrupts. [R.] Cudworth.

ADULTERER
A*dul"ter*er, n. Etym: [Formed fr. the verb adulter, with the E.
ending -er. See Advoutrer.]

1. A man who commits adultery; a married man who has sexual
intercourse with a woman not his wife.

2. (Script.)

Defn: A man who violates his religious covenant. Jer. ix. 2.

ADULTERESS
A*dul"ter*ess, n. Etym: [Fem. from L. adulter. Cf. Advoutress.]

1. A woman who commits adultery.

2. (Script.)

Defn: A woman who violates her religious engagements. James iv. 4.

ADULTERINE
A*dul"ter*ine, a.Etym: [L. adulterinus, fr. adulter.]

Defn: Proceeding from adulterous intercourse. Hence: Spurious;
without the support of law; illegal.
When any particular class of artificers or traders thought proper to
act as a corporation without a charter, such were called adulterine
guilds. Adam Smith.

ADULTERINE
A*dul"ter*ine, n.

Defn: An illegitimate child. [R.]

ADULTERIZE
A*dul"ter*ize, v. i.

Defn: To commit adultery. Milton.

ADULTEROUS
A*dul"ter*ous, a.

1. Guilty of, or given to, adultery; pertaining to adultery; illicit.
Dryden.

2. Characterized by adulteration; spurious. "An adulterous mixture."
[Obs.] Smollett.

ADULTEROUSLY
A*dul"ter*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adulterous manner.

ADULTERY
A*dul"ter*y, n.; pl. Adulteries(#). Etym: [L. adulterium. See
Advoutry.]

1. The unfaithfulness of a married person to the marriage bed; sexual
intercourse by a married man with another than his wife, or voluntary
sexual intercourse by a married woman with another than her husband.

Note: It is adultery on the part of the married wrongdoer. The word
has also been used to characterize the act of an unmarried
participator, the other being married. In the United States the
definition varies with the local statutes. Unlawful intercourse
between two married persons is sometimes called double adultery;
between a married and an unmarried person, single adultery.

2. Adulteration; corruption. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

3. (Script.)
(a) Lewdness or unchastity of thought as well as act, as forbidden by
the seventh commandment.
(b) Faithlessness in religion. Jer. iii. 9.

4. (Old Law)

Defn: The fine and penalty imposed for the offense of adultery.

5. (Eccl.)

Defn: The intrusion of a person into a bishopric during the life of
the bishop.

6. Injury; degradation; ruin. [Obs.]
You might wrest the caduceus out of my hand to the adultery and spoil
of nature. B. Jonson.

ADULTNESS
A*dult"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being adult.

ADUMBRANT
Ad*um"brant, a. Etym: [L. adumbrans, p. pr. of adumbrare.]

Defn: Giving a faint shadow, or slight resemblance; shadowing forth.

ADUMBRATE
Ad*um"brate, v. t. Etym: [L. adumbratus, p. p. of adumbrare; ad +
umbrare to shade; umbra shadow.]

1. To give a faint shadow or slight representation of; to outline; to
shadow forth.
Both in the vastness and the richness of the visible universe the
invisible God is adumbrated. L. Taylor.

2. To overshadow; to shade.

ADUMBRATION
Ad`um*bra"tion, n. Etym: [L. adumbratio.]

1. The act of adumbrating, or shadowing forth.

2. A faint sketch; an outline; an imperfect portrayal or
representation of a thing.
Elegant adumbrations of sacred truth. Bp. Horsley.

3. (Her.)

Defn: The shadow or outlines of a figure.

ADUMBRATIVE
Ad*um"bra*tive, a.

Defn: Faintly representing; typical. Carlyle.

ADUNATION
Ad`u*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. adunatio; ad + unus one.]

Defn: A uniting; union. Jer. Taylor.

ADUNC; ADUNQUE
A*dunc", A*dunque", a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Hooked; as, a parrot has an adunc bill.

ADUNCITY
A*dun"ci*ty, n. Etym: [L. aduncitas. See Aduncous.]

Defn: Curvature inwards; hookedness.
The aduncity of the beaks of hawks. Pope.

ADUNCOUS
A*dun"cous, a. Etym: [L. aduncus; ad + uncus hooked, hook.]

Defn: Curved inwards; hooked.

ADURE
A*dure", v. t. Etym: [L. adurere; ad + urere to burn.]

Defn: To burn up. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADUROL
Ad"u*rol, n. (Photog.)

Defn: Either of two compounds, a chlorine derivative and bromine
derivative, of hydroquinone, used as developers.

ADUST
A*dust", a. Etym: [L. adustus, p. p. of adurere: cf. F. aduste.]

1. Inflamed or scorched; fiery. "The Libyan air adust." Milton.

2. Looking as if or scorched; sunburnt.
A tall, thin man, of an adust complexion. Sir W. Scott.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Having much heat in the constitution and little serum in the
blood. [Obs.] Hence: Atrabilious; sallow; gloomy.

ADUSTED
A*dust"ed, a.

Defn: Burnt; adust. [Obs.] Howell.

ADUSTIBLE
A*dust"i*ble, a.

Defn: That may be burnt. [Obs.]

ADUSTION
A*dus"tion, n. Etym: [L. adustio, fr. adurere, adustum: cf. F.
adustion.]

1. The act of burning, or heating to dryness; the state of being thus
heated or dried. [Obs.] Harvey.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: Cauterization. Buchanan.

AD VALOREM
Ad va*lo"rem. Etym: [L., according to the value.] (Com.)

Defn: A term used to denote a duty or charge laid upon goods, at a
certain rate per cent upon their value, as stated in their invoice, -
- in opposition to a specific sum upon a given quantity or number;
as, an ad valorem duty of twenty per cent.

ADVANCE
Ad*vance", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Advanced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Advancing(#).] Etym: [OE. avancen, avauncen, F. avancer, fr. a
supposed LL. abantiare; ab + ante (F. avant) before. The spelling
with d was a mistake, a- being supposed to be fr. L. ad. See Avaunt.]

1. To bring forward; to move towards the van or front; to make to go
on.

2. To raise; to elevate. [Archaic]
They . . . advanced their eyelids. Shak.

3. To raise to a higher rank; to promote.
Ahasueres . . . advanced him, and set his seat above all the princes.
Esther iii. 1.

4. To accelerate the growth or progress; to further; to forward; to
help on; to aid; to heighten; as, to advance the ripening of fruit;
to advance one's interests.

5. To bring to view or notice; to offer or propose; to show; as, to
advance an argument.
Some ne'er advance a judgment of their own. Pope.

6. To make earlier, as an event or date; to hasten.

7. To furnish, as money or other value, before it becomes due, or in
aid of an enterprise; to supply beforehand; as, a merchant advances
money on a contract or on goods consigned to him.

8. To raise to a higher point; to enhance; to raise in rate; as, to
advance the price of goods.

9. To extol; to laud. [Obs.]
Greatly advancing his gay chivalry. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- To raise; elevate; exalt; aggrandize; improve; heighten;
accelerate; allege; adduce; assign.

ADVANCE
Ad*vance", v. i.

1. To move or go forward; to proceed; as, he advanced to greet me.

2. To increase or make progress in any respect; as, to advance in
knowledge, in stature, in years, in price.

3. To rise in rank, office, or consequence; to be preferred or
promoted.
Advanced to a level with ancient peers. Prescott.

ADVANCE
Ad*vance", n. Etym: [Cf. F. avance, fr. avancer. See Advance, v.]

1. The act of advancing or moving forward or upward; progress.

2. Improvement or progression, physically, mentally, morally, or
socially; as, an advance in health, knowledge, or religion; an
advance in rank or office.

3. An addition to the price; rise in price or value; as, an advance
on the prime cost of goods.

4. The first step towards the attainment of a result; approach made
to gain favor, to form an acquaintance, to adjust a difference, etc.;
an overture; a tender; an offer; -- usually in the plural.
[He] made the like advances to the dissenters. Swift.

5. A furnishing of something before an equivalent is received (as
money or goods), towards a capital or stock, or on loan; payment
beforehand; the money or goods thus furnished; money or value
supplied beforehand.
I shall, with pleasure, make the necessary advances. Jay.
The account was made up with intent to show what advances had been
made. Kent.
In advance (a) In front; before. (b) Beforehand; before an equivalent
is received. (c) In the state of having advanced money on account;
as, A is advance to B a thousand dollars or pounds.

ADVANCE
Ad*vance", a.

Defn: Before in place, or beforehand in time; -- used for advanced;
as, an advance guard, or that before the main guard or body of an
army; advance payment, or that made before it is due; advance proofs,
advance sheets, pages of a forthcoming volume, received in advance of
the time of publication.

ADVANCED
Ad*vanced", a.

1. In the van or front.

2. In the front or before others, as regards progress or ideas; as,
advanced opinions, advanced thinkers.

3. Far on in life or time.
A gentleman advanced in years, with a hard experience written in his
wrinkles. Hawthorne.
Advanced guard, a detachment of troops which precedes the march of
the main body.

ADVANCEMENT
Ad*vance"ment, n. Etym: [OE. avancement, F. avancement. See Advance,
v. t.]

1. The act of advancing, or the state of being advanced; progression;
improvement; furtherance; promotion to a higher place or dignity; as,
the advancement of learning.
In heaven . . . every one (so well they love each other) rejoiceth
and hath his part in each other's advancement. Sir T. More.
True religion . . . proposes for its end the joint advancement of the
virtue and happiness of the people. Horsley.

2. An advance of money or value; payment in advance. See Advance, 5.

3. (Law)

Defn: Property given, usually by a parent to a child, in advance of a
future distribution.

4. Settlement on a wife, or jointure. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADVANCER
Ad*van"cer, n.

1. One who advances; a promoter.

2. A second branch of a buck's antler. Howell.

ADVANCING EDGE
Ad*van"cing edge. (Aëronautics)

Defn: The front edge (in direction of motion) of a supporting
surface; -- contr. with following edge, which is the rear edge.

ADVANCING SURFACE
Ad*van"cing sur"face. (Aëronautics)

Defn: The first of two or more surfaces arranged in tandem; -- contr.
with following surface, which is the rear surface.

ADVANCIVE
Ad*van"cive, a.

Defn: Tending to advance. [R.]

ADVANTAGE
Ad*van"tage, n. Etym: [OE. avantage, avauntage, F. avantage, fr.
avant before. See Advance, and cf. Vantage.]

1. Any condition, circumstance, opportunity, or means, particularly
favorable to success, or to any desired end; benefit; as, the enemy
had the advantage of a more elevated position.
Give me advantage of some brief discourse. Shak.
The advantages of a close alliance. Macaulay.

2. Superiority; mastery; -- with of or over.
Lest Satan should get an advantage of us. 2 Cor. ii. 11.

3. Superiority of state, or that which gives it; benefit; gain;
profit; as, the advantage of a good constitution.

4. Interest of money; increase; overplus (as the thirteenth in the
baker's dozen). [Obs.]
And with advantage means to pay thy love. Shak.
Advantage ground, vantage ground. [R.] Clarendon.
 -- To have the advantage of (any one), to have a personal knowledge
of one who does not have a reciprocal knowledge. "You have the
advantage of me; I don't remember ever to have had the honor."
Sheridan.
 -- To take advantage of, to profit by; (often used in a bad sense)
to overreach, to outwit.

Syn.
 -- Advantage, Advantageous, Benefit, Beneficial. We speak of a thing
as a benefit, or as beneficial, when it is simply productive of good;
as, the benefits of early discipline; the beneficial effects of
adversity. We speak of a thing as an advantage, or as advantageous,
when it affords us the means of getting forward, and places us on a
"vantage ground" for further effort. Hence, there is a difference
between the benefits and the advantages of early education; between a
beneficial and an advantageous investment of money.

ADVANTAGE
Ad*van"tage, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Advantaged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Advantaging.] Etym: [F. avantager, fr. avantage. See Advance.]

Defn: To give an advantage to; to further; to promote; to benefit; to
profit.
The truth is, the archbishop's own stiffness and averseness to comply
with the court designs, advantaged his adversaries against him.
Fuller.
What is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and lose
himself, or be cast away Luke ix. 25.
To advantage one's self of, to avail one's self of. [Obs.]

ADVANTAGEABLE
Ad*van"tage*a*ble, a.

Defn: Advantageous. [Obs.]

ADVANTAGEOUS
Ad`van*ta"geous, a. Etym: [F. avantageux, fr. avantage.]

Defn: Being of advantage; conferring advantage; gainful; profitable;
useful; beneficial; as, an advantageous position; trade is
advantageous to a nation.
Advabtageous comparison with any other country. Prescott.
You see . . . of what use a good reputation is, and how swift and
advantageous a harbinger it is, wherever one goes. Chesterfield.

ADVANTAGEOUSLY
Ad`van*ta"geous*ly, adv.

Defn: Profitably; with advantage.

ADVANTAGEOUSNESS
Ad`van*ta"geous*ness, n.

Defn: Profitableness.

ADVENE
Ad*vene", v. i. Etym: [L. advenire; ad + venire to come: cf. F.
avenir, advenir. See Come.]

Defn: To accede, or come (to); to be added to something or become a
part of it, though not essential. [R.]
Where no act of the will advenes as a coefficient. Coleridge.

ADVENIENT
Ad*ven"ient, a. Etym: [L. adviens, p. pr.]

Defn: Coming from outward causes; superadded. [Obs.]

ADVENT
Ad`vent, n. Etym: [L. adventus, fr. advenire, adventum: cf. F. avent.
See Advene.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: The period including the four Sundays before Christmas. Advent
Sunday (Eccl.), the first Sunday in the season of Advent, being
always the nearest Sunday to the feast of St. Andrew (Now. 30).
Shipley.

2. The first or the expected second coming of Christ.

3. Coming; any important arrival; approach.
Death's dreadful advent. Young.
Expecting still his advent home. Tennyson.

ADVENTIST
Ad"vent*ist, n.

Defn: One of a religious body, embracing several branches, who look
for the proximate personal coming of Christ; -- called also Second
Adventists. Schaff-Herzog Encyc.

ADVENTITIOUS
Ad`ven*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. adventitius.]

1. Added extrinsically; not essentially inherent; accidental or
causal; additional; supervenient; foreign.
To things of great dimensions, if we annex an adventitious idea of
terror, they become without comparison greater. Burke.

2. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Out of the proper or usual place; as, adventitious buds or
roots.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Accidentally or sparingly spontaneous in a country or district;
not fully naturalized; adventive; -- applied to foreign plants.

4. (Med.)

Defn: Acquired, as diseases; accidental.
 -- Ad`ven*ti"tious*ly, adv.
 -- Ad`ven*ti"tious*ness, n.

ADVENTIVE
Ad*ven"tive, a.

1. Accidental.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Adventitious. Gray.

ADVENTIVE
Ad*ven"tive, n.

Defn: A thing or person coming from without; an immigrant. [R.]
Bacon.

ADVENTUAL
Ad*ven"tu*al, a.

Defn: Relating to the season of advent. Sanderson.

ADVENTURE
Ad*ven"ture, n. Etym: [OE. aventure, aunter, anter, F. aventure, fr.
LL. adventura, fr. L. advenire, adventum, to arrive, which in the
Romance languages took the sense of "to happen, befall." See Advene.]

1. That which happens without design; chance; hazard; hap; hence,
chance of danger or loss.
Nay, a far less good to man it will be found, if she must, at all
adventures, be fastened upon him individually. Milton.

2. Risk; danger; peril. [Obs.]
He was in great adventure of his life. Berners.

3. The encountering of risks; hazardous and striking enterprise; a
bold undertaking, in which hazards are to be encountered, and the
issue is staked upon unforeseen events; a daring feat.
He loved excitement and adventure. Macaulay.

4. A remarkable occurrence; a striking event; a stirring incident;
as, the adventures of one's life. Bacon.

5. A mercantile or speculative enterprise of hazard; a venture; a
shipment by a merchant on his own account. A bill of adventure
(Com.), a writing setting forth that the goods shipped are at the
owner's risk.

Syn.
 -- Undertaking; enterprise; venture; event.

ADVENTURE
Ad*ven"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adventured; p. pr. & vb. n.
Adventuring.] Etym: [OE. aventuren, auntren, F. aventurer, fr.
aventure. See Adventure, n.]

1. To risk, or hazard; jeopard; to venture.
He would not adventure himself into the theater. Acts xix. 31.

2. To venture upon; to run the risk of; to dare.
Yet they adventured to go back. Bunyan,
Discriminations might be adventured. J. Taylor.

ADVENTURE
Ad*ven"ture, v. i.

Defn: To try the chance; to take the risk.
I would adventure for such merchandise. Shak.

ADVENTUREFUL
Ad*ven"ture*ful, a.

Defn: Given to adventure.

ADVENTURER
Ad*ven"tur*er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aventurier.]

1. One who adventures; as, the merchant adventurers; one who seeks
his fortune in new and hazardous or perilous enterprises.

2. A social pretender on the lookout for advancement.

ADVENTURESOME
Ad*ven"ture*some, a.

Defn: Full of risk; adventurous; venturesome.
 -- Ad*ven"ture*some*ness, n.

ADVENTURESS
Ad*ven"tur*ess, n.

Defn: A female adventurer; a woman who tries to gain position by
equivocal means.

ADVENTUROUS
Ad*ven"tur*ous, a. Etym: [OE. aventurous, aunterous, OF. aventuros,
F. aventureux, fr. aventure. See Adventure, n.]

1. Inclined to adventure; willing to incur hazard; prone to embark in
hazardous enterprise; rashly daring; -- applied to persons.
Bold deed thou hast presumed, adventurous Eve. Milton.

2. Full of hazard; attended with risk; exposing to danger; requiring
courage; rash; -- applied to acts; as, an adventurous undertaking,
deed, song.

Syn.
 -- Rash; foolhardy; presumptuous; enterprising; daring; hazardous;
venturesome. See Rash.

ADVENTUROUSLY
Ad*ven"tur*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adventurous manner; venturesomely; boldly; daringly.

ADVENTUROUSNESS
Ad*ven"tur*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being adventurous; daring;
venturesomeness.

ADVERB
Ad"verb, n. Etym: [L. adverbium; ad + verbum word, verb: cf. F.
adverbe.] (Gram.)

Defn: A word used to modify the sense of a verb, participle,
adjective, or other adverb, and usually placed near it; as, he writes
well; paper extremely white.

ADVERBIAL
Ad*ver"bi*al, a. Etym: [L. adverbialis: cf. F. adverbial.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an adverb; of the nature of an adverb; as,
an adverbial phrase or form.

ADVERBIALITY
Ad*ver`bi*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being adverbial. Earle.

ADVERBIALIZE
Ad*ver"bi*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To give the force or form of an adverb to.

ADVERBIALLY
Ad*ver"bi*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an adverb.

ADVERSARIA
Ad`ver*sa"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [L. adversaria (sc. scripta), neut. pl.
of adversarius.]

Defn: A miscellaneous collection of notes, remarks, or selections; a
commonplace book; also, commentaries or notes.
These parchments are supposed to have been St. Paul's adversaria. Bp.
Bull.

ADVERSARIOUS
Ad`ver*sa"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Hostile. [R.] Southey.

ADVERSARY
Ad`ver*sa*ry, n.; pl. Adversaries. Etym: [OE. adversarie, direct fr.
the Latin, and adversaire, fr. OF. adversier, aversier, fr. L.
adversarius (a.) turned toward, (n.) an adversary. See Adverse.]

Defn: One who is turned against another or others with a design to
oppose

or resist them; a member of an opposing or hostile party; an
opponent; an antagonist; an enemy; a foe.
His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries. Shak.
Agree with thine adversary quickly. Matt. v. 25.
It may be thought that to vindicate the permanency of truth is to
dispute without an adversary. Beattie.
The Adversary, The Satan, or the Devil.

Syn.
 -- Adversary, Enemy, Opponent, Antagonist. Enemy is the only one of
these words which necessarily implies a state of personal hostility.
Men may be adversaries, antagonists, or opponents to each other in
certain respects, and yet have no feelings of general animosity. An
adversary may be simply one who is placed for a time in a hostile
position, as in a lawsuit, an argument, in chess playing, or at
fence. An opponent is one who is ranged against another (perhaps
passively) on the opposing side; as a political opponent, an opponent
in debate. An antagonist is one who struggles against another with
active effort, either in a literal fight or in verbal debate.

ADVERSARY
Ad"ver*sa*ry, a.

1. Opposed; opposite; adverse; antagonistic. [Archaic] Bp. King.

2. (Law)

Defn: Having an opposing party; not unopposed; as, an adversary suit.

ADVERSATIVE
Ad*ver"sa*tive, a. Etym: [L. adversativus, fr. adversari.]

Defn: Expressing contrariety, opposition, or antithesis; as, an
adversative conjunction (but, however, yet, etc. ); an adversative
force.
 -- Ad*ver"sa*tive*ly, adv.

ADVERSATIVE
Ad*ver"sa*tive, n.

Defn: An adversative word. Harris.

ADVERSE
Ad"verse, a. Etym: [OE. advers, OF. avers, advers, fr. L. adversus,
p. p. advertere to turn to. See Advert.]

1. Acting against, or in a contrary direction; opposed; contrary;
opposite; conflicting; as, adverse winds; an adverse party; a spirit
adverse to distinctions of caste.

2. Opposite. "Calpe's adverse height." Byron.

3. In hostile opposition to; unfavorable; unpropitious; contrary to
one's wishes; unfortunate; calamitous; afflictive; hurtful; as,
adverse fates, adverse circumstances, things adverse.
Happy were it for us all if we bore prosperity as well and wisely as
we endure an adverse fortune. Southey.
Adverse possession (Law), a possession of real property avowedly
contrary to some claim of title in another person. Abbott.

Syn.
 -- Averse; reluctant; unwilling. See Averse.

ADVERSE
Ad*verse", v. t. Etym: [L. adversari: cf. OF. averser.]

Defn: To oppose; to resist. [Obs.] Gower.

ADVERSELY
Ad"verse*ly (277), adv.

Defn: In an adverse manner; inimically; unfortunately; contrariwise.

ADVERSENESS
Ad"verse*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being adverse; opposition.

ADVERSIFOLIATE; ADVERSIFOLIOUS
Ad*ver`si*fo"li*ate, Ad*ver`si*fo"li*ous a. Etym: [L. adver + folium
leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having opposite leaves, as plants which have the leaves so
arranged on the stem.

ADVERSION
Ad*ver"sion, n.Etym: [L. adversio]

Defn: A turning towards; attention. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

ADVERSITY
Ad*ver"si*ty, n.; pl. Adversities(#). Etym: [OE. adversite, F.
adversité, fr. L. adversitas.]

1. Opposition; contrariety. [Obs.] Wyclif.
Adversity is not without comforts and hopes. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Affliction; distress; misery; disaster; trouble; suffering;
trial.

ADVERT
Ad*vert", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Adverted; p. pr. & vb. n. Adverting.]
Etym: [L. advertere, v. t., to turn to; ad + vertere to turn: cf. F.
avertir. See Advertise.]

Defn: To turn the mind or attention; to refer; to take heed or
notice; -- with to; as, he adverted to what was said.
I may again advert to the distinction. Owen.

Syn.- To refer; allude; regard. See Refer.

ADVERTENCE; ADVERTENCY
Ad*vert"ence, Ad*vert"en*cy,Etym: [OF. advertence, avertence, LL.
advertentia, fr. L. advertens. See Advertent.]

Defn: The act of adverting, of the quality of being advertent;
attention; notice; regard; heedfulness.
To this difference it is right that advertence should be had in
regulating taxation. J. S. Mill.

ADVERTENT
Ad*vert"ent, a. Etym: [L. advertens, -entis, p. pr. of advertere. See
Advert.]

Defn: Attentive; heedful; regardful. Sir M. Hale.
 -- Ad*vert"ent*ly, adv.

ADVERTISE
Ad`ver*tise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Advertised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Advertising.] Etym: [F. avertir, formerly also spelt advertir, to
warn, give notice to, L. advertere to turn to. The ending was
probably influenced by the noun advertisement. See Advert.]

Defn: To give notice to; to inform or apprise; to notify; to make
known; hence, to warn; -- often followed by of before the subject of
information; as, to advertise a man of his loss. [Archaic]
I will advertise thee what this people shall do. Num. xxiv. 14.

4. To give public notice of; to announce publicly, esp. by a printed
notice; as, to advertise goods for sale, a lost article, the sailing
day of a vessel, a political meeting.

Syn.
 -- To apprise; inform; make known; notify; announce; proclaim;
promulgate; publish.

ADVERTISEMENT
Ad*ver"tise*ment, n. Etym: [F.avertisement, formerly also spelled
advertissement, a warning, giving notice, fr. avertir.]

1. The act of informing or notifying; notification. [Archaic]
An advertisement of danger. Bp. Burnet.

2. Admonition; advice; warning. [Obs.]
Therefore give me no counsel: My griefs cry louder than
advertisement. Shak.

3. A public notice, especially a paid notice in some public print;
anything that advertises; as, a newspaper containing many
advertisement.

ADVERTISER
Ad`ver*tis"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, advertises.

ADVICE
Ad*vice", n. Etym: [OE. avis, F. avis; + OF. vis, fr. L. visum
seemed, seen; really p. p. of videre to see, so that vis meant that
which has seemed best. See Vision, and cf. Avise, Advise.]

1. An opinion recommended or offered, as worthy to be followed;
counsel.
We may give advice, but we can not give conduct. Franklin.

2. Deliberate consideration; knowledge. [Obs.]
How shall I dote on her with more advice, That thus without advice
begin to love her Shak.

3. Information or notice given; intelligence; as, late advices from
France; -- commonly in the plural.

Note: In commercial language, advice usually means information
communicated by letter; -- used chiefly in reference to drafts or
bills of exchange; as, a letter of advice. McElrath.

4. (Crim. Law)

Defn: Counseling to perform a specific illegal act. Wharton. Advice
boat, a vessel employed to carry dispatches or to reconnoiter; a
dispatch boat.
 -- To take advice. (a) To accept advice. (b) To consult with another
or others.

Syn.
 -- Counsel; suggestion; recommendation; admonition; exhortation;
information; notice.

ADVISABILITY
Ad*vis`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being advisable; advisableness.

ADVISABLE
Ad*vis"a*ble, a.

1. Proper to be advised or to be done; expedient; prudent.
Some judge it advisable for a man to account with his heart every
day. South.

2. Ready to receive advice. [R.] South.

Syn.
 -- Expedient; proper; desirable; befitting.

ADVISABLE-NESS
Ad*vis"a*ble-ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being advisable or expedient; expediency;
advisability.

ADVISABLY
Ad*vis"a*bly, adv.

Defn: With advice; wisely.

ADVISE
Ad*vise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Advised; p. pr. & vb. n. Advising.]
Etym: [OE. avisen to perceive, consider, inform, F. aviser, fr. LL.
advisare. advisare; ad + visare, fr. L. videre, visum, to see. See
Advice, and cf. Avise.]

1. To give advice to; to offer an opinion, as worthy or expedient to
be followed; to counsel; to warn. "I shall no more advise thee."
Milton.

2. To give information or notice to; to inform; -- with of before the
thing communicated; as, we were advised of the risk. To advise one's
self, to bethink one's self; to take counsel with one's self; to
reflect; to consider. [Obs.]
Bid thy master well advise himself. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To counsel; admonish; apprise; acquaint.

ADVISE
Ad*vise", v. t.

1. To consider; to deliberate. [Obs.]
Advise if this be worth attempting. Milton.

2. To take counsel; to consult; -- followed by with; as, to advise
with friends.

ADVISEDLY
Ad*vis"ed*ly, adv.

1. Circumspectly; deliberately; leisurely. [Obs.] Shak.

2. With deliberate purpose; purposely; by design. "Advisedly
undertaken." Suckling.

ADVISEDNESS
Ad*vis"ed*ness n.

Defn: Deliberate consideration; prudent procedure; caution.

ADVISEMENT
Ad*vise"ment, n. Etym: [OE. avisement, F. avisement, fr. aviser. See
Advise, and cf. Avisement.]

1. Counsel; advise; information. [Archaic]
And mused awhile, waking advisement takes of what had passed in
sleep. Daniel.

2. Consideration; deliberation; consultation.
Tempering the passion with advisement slow. Spenser.

ADVISER
Ad*vis"er, n.

Defn: One who advises.

ADVISERSHIP
Ad*vis"er*ship, n.

Defn: The office of an adviser. [R.]

ADVISO
Ad*vi"so, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. aviso. See Advice.]

Defn: Advice; counsel; suggestion; also, a dispatch or advice boat.
[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ADVISORY
Ad*vi"so*ry, a.

Defn: Having power to advise; containing advice; as, an advisory
council; their opinion is merely advisory.
The General Association has a general advisory superintendence over
all the ministers and churches. Trumbull.

ADVOCACY
Ad"vo*ca*cy, n. Etym: [OF. advocatie, LL. advocatia. See Advocate.]

Defn: The act of pleading for or supporting; work of advocating;
intercession.

ADVOCATE
Ad"vo*cate, n. Etym: [OE. avocat, avocet, OF. avocat, fr. L.
advocatus, one summoned or called to another; properly the p. p. of
advocare to call to, call to one's aid; ad + vocare to call. See
Advowee, Avowee, Vocal.]

1. One who pleads the cause of another. Specifically: One who pleads
the cause of another before a tribunal or judicial court; a
counselor.

Note: In the English and American Law, advocate is the same as
"counsel," "counselor," or "barrister." In the civil and
ecclesiastical courts, the term signifies the same as "counsel" at
the common law.

2. One who defends, vindicates, or espouses any cause by argument; a
pleader; as, an advocate of free trade, an advocate of truth.

3. Christ, considered as an intercessor.
We have an Advocate with the Father. 1 John ii. 1.
Faculty of advocates (Scot.), the Scottish bar in Edinburgh.
 -- Lord advocate (Scot.), the public prosecutor of crimes, and
principal crown lawyer.
 -- Judge advocate. See under Judge.

ADVOCATE
Ad"vo*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Advocated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Advocating.] Etym: [See Advocate, n., Advoke, Avow.]

Defn: To plead in favor of; to defend by argument, before a tribunal
or the public; to support, vindicate, or recommend publicly.
To advocate the cause of thy client. Bp. Sanderson (1624).
This is the only thing distinct and sensible, that has been
advocated. Burke.
Eminent orators were engaged to advocate his cause. Mitford.

ADVOCATE
Ad"vo*cate, v. i.

Defn: To act as advocate. [Obs.] Fuller.

ADVOCATESHIP
Ad"vo*cate*ship, n.

Defn: Office or duty of an advocate.

ADVOCATION
Ad`vo*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. advocatio: cf. OF. avocation. See
Advowson.]

1. The act of advocating or pleading; plea; advocacy. [Archaic]
The holy Jesus . . . sits in heaven in a perpetual advocation for us.
Jer. Taylor.

2. Advowson. [Obs.]
The donations or advocations of church livings. Sanderson.

3. (Scots Law)

Defn: The process of removing a cause from an inferior court to the
supreme court. Bell.

ADVOCATORY
Ad"vo*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an advocate. [R.]

ADVOKE
Ad*voke", v. t. Etym: [L. advocare. See Advocate.]

Defn: To summon; to call. [Obs.]
Queen Katharine had privately prevailed with the pope to advoke the
cause to Rome. Fuller.

ADVOLUTION
Ad`vo*lu"tion, n. Etym: [L. advolvere, advolutum, to roll to.]

Defn: A rolling toward something. [R.]

ADVOUTRER
Ad*vou"trer, n. Etym: [OF. avoutre, avoltre, fr. L. adulter. Cf.
Adulterer.]

Defn: An adulterer. [Obs.]

ADVOUTRESS
Ad*vou"tress, n.

Defn: An adulteress. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADVOUTRY; ADVOWTRY
Ad*vou"try, Ad*vow"try, n. Etym: [OE. avoutrie, avouterie, advoutrie,
OF. avoutrie, avulterie, fr. L. adulterium. Cf. Adultery.]

Defn: Adultery. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADVOWEE
Ad*vow*ee", n. Etym: [OE. avowe, F. avoué, fr. L. advocatus. See
Advocate, Avowee, Avoyer.]

Defn: One who has an advowson. Cowell.

ADVOWSON
Ad*vow"son, n. Etym: [OE. avoweisoun, OF. avoëson, fr. L. advocatio.
Cf. Advocation.] (Eng. Law)

Defn: The right of presenting to a vacant benefice or living in the
church. [Originally, the relation of a patron (advocatus) or
protector of a benefice, and thus privileged to nominate or present
to it.]

Note: The benefices of the Church of England are in every case
subjects of presentation. They are nearly 12,000 in number; the
advowson of more than half of them belongs to private persons, and of
the remainder to the crown, bishops, deans and chapters,
universities, and colleges. Amer. Cyc.

ADVOYER
Ad*voy"er, n.

Defn: See Avoyer. [Obs.]

ADWARD
Ad*ward", n.

Defn: Award. [Obs.] Spenser.

ADYNAMIA
Ad`y*na"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL. adynamia, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Considerable debility of the vital powers, as in typhoid fever.
Dunglison.

ADYNAMIC
Ad`y*nam"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. adynamique. See Adynamy.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, debility of the vital
powers; weak.

2. (Physics)

Defn: Characterized by the absence of power or force. Adynamic
fevers, malignant or putrid fevers attended with great muscular
debility.

ADYNAMY
A*dyn"a*my, n.

Defn: Adynamia. [R.] Morin.

ADYTUM
Ad"y*tum, n. Adyta. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: The innermost sanctuary or shrine in ancient temples, whence
oracles were given. Hence: A private chamber; a sanctum.

ADZ
Adz, v. t.

Defn: To cut with an adz. [R.] Carlyle.

ADZ; ADZE
Adz, Adze, n. Etym: [OE. adese, adis, adse, AS. adesa, adese, ax,
hatchet.]

Defn: A carpenter's or cooper's tool, formed with a thin arching
blade set at right angles to the handle. It is used for chipping or
slicing away the surface of wood.

AE
Æ or Ae.

Defn: A diphthong in the Latin language; used also by the Saxon
writers. It answers to the Gr. æ was generally replaced by a, the
long e or ee. In derivatives from Latin words with ae, it is mostly
superseded by e. For most words found with this initial combination,
the reader will therefore search under the letter E.

AECIDIUM
Æ*cid"i*um, n.; pl. Æcidia. Etym: [NL., dim. of Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A form of fruit in the cycle of development of the Rusts or
Brands, an order of fungi, formerly considered independent plants.

AEDILE
Æ"dile, n. Etym: [L. aedilis, fr. aedes temple, public building. Cf.
Edify.]

Defn: A magistrate in ancient Rome, who had the superintendence of
public buildings, highways, shows, etc.; hence, a municipal officer.

AEDILESHIP
Æ"dile*ship, n.

Defn: The office of an ædile. T. Arnold.

AEGEAN
Æ*ge"an, a. Etym: [L. Aegeus; Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sea, or arm of the Mediterranean sea,
east of Greece. See Archipelago.

AEGICRANIA
Æ`gi*cra"ni*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: Sculptured ornaments, used in classical architecture,
representing rams' heads or skulls.

AEGILOPS
Æg"i*lops, n. Etym: [L. aegilopis, Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: An ulcer or fistula in the inner corner of the eye.

2. (Bot.)
(a) The great wild-oat grass or other cornfield weed. Crabb.
(b) A genus of plants, called also hardgrass.

AEGIS
Æ"gis, n. Etym: [L. aegis, fr. Gr.

Defn: A shield or protective armor; -- applied in mythology to the
shield of Jupiter which he gave to Minerva. Also fig.: A shield; a
protection.

AEGOPHONY
Æ*goph"o*ny, n.

Defn: Same as Egophony.

AEGROTAT
Æ*gro"tat, n. Etym: [L., he is sick.] (Camb. Univ.)

Defn: A medical certificate that a student is ill.

AENEID
Æ*ne"id, n. Etym: [L. Aeneis, Aeneidis, or -dos: cf. F. .]

Defn: The great epic poem of Virgil, of which the hero is Æneas.

AENEOUS
A*ë"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. aëneus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Colored like bronze.

AEOLIAN
Æ*o"li*an, a. Etym: [L. Aeolius, Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to Æolia or Æolis, in Asia Minor, colonized by
the Greeks, or to its inhabitants; æolic; as, the Æolian dialect.

2. Pertaining to Æolus, the mythic god of the winds; pertaining to,
or produced by, the wind; aërial.
Viewless forms the æolian organ play. Campbell.
Æolian attachment, a contrivance often attached to a pianoforte,
which prolongs the vibrations, increases the

volume of sound, etc., by forcing a stream of air upon the strings.
Moore.
 -- Æolian harp, Æolian lyre, a musical instrument consisting of a
box, on or in which are stretched strings, on which the wind acts to
produce the notes; -- usually placed at an open window. Moore.
 -- Æolian mode (Mus.), one of the ancient Greek and early
ecclesiastical modes.

AEOLIC
Æ*ol"ic, a. Etym: [L. Aeolicus; Gr.

Defn: Æolian, 1; as, the Æolic dialect; the Æolic mode.

AEOLIPILE; AEOLIPYLE
Æ*ol"i*pile, Æ*ol"i*pyle, n. Etym: [L. aeolipilae; Aeolus god of the
winds + pila a ball, or Gr. i. e., doorway of Æolus); cf. F.
éolipyle.]

Defn: An apparatus consisting chiefly of a closed vessel (as a globe
or cylinder) with one or more projecting bent tubes, through which
steam is made to pass from the vessel, causing it to revolve.
[Written also eolipile.]

Note: Such an apparatus was first described by Hero of Alexandria
about 200 years b. c. It has often been called the first steam
engine.

AEOLOTROPIC
Æ`o*lo*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Exhibiting differences of quality or property in different
directions; not isotropic. Sir W. Thomson.

AEOLOTROPY
Æ`o*lot"ro*py, n. (Physics)

Defn: Difference of quality or property in different directions.

AEOLUS
Æ"o*lus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gr. & Rom. Myth.)

Defn: The god of the winds.

AEON
Æ"on, n.

Defn: A period of immeasurable duration; also, an emanation of the
Deity. See Eon.

AEONIAN
Æ*o"ni*an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Eternal; everlasting. "Æonian hills." Tennyson.

AEPYORNIS
Æ`py*or"nis, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A gigantic bird found fossil in Madagascar.

AERATE
A"ër*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. A; p. pr. & vb. n. A.] Etym: [Cf. F.
aérer. See Air,v. t.]

1. To combine or charge with gas; usually with carbonic acid gas,
formerly called fixed air.
His sparkling sallies bubbled up as from aërated natural fountains.
Carlyle.

2. To supply or impregnate with common air; as, to aërate soil; to
aërate water.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: To expose to the chemical action of air; to oxygenate (the
blood) by respiration; to arterialize. Aërated bread, bread raised by
charging dough with carbonic acid gas, instead of generating the gas
in the dough by fermentation.

AERATION
A`ër*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aération.]

1. Exposure to the free action of the air; airing; as, aëration of
soil, of spawn, etc.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: A change produced in the blood by exposure to the air in
respiration; oxygenation of the blood in respiration;
arterialization.

3. The act or preparation of charging with carbonic acid gas or with
oxygen.

AERATOR
A"ër*a`tor, n.

Defn: That which supplies with air; esp. an apparatus used for
charging mineral waters with gas and in making soda water.

AERENCHYM; AERENCHYMA
{ A"ër*en`chym,  A`ër*en"chy*ma }, n. [NL. aërenchyma. See Aëro-;
Enchyma.] (Bot.)

Defn: A secondary respiratory tissue or modified periderm, found in
many aquatic plants and distinguished by the large intercellular
spaces.

AERIAL
A*ë"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. aërius. See Air.]

1. Of or pertaining to the air, or atmosphere; inhabiting or
frequenting the air; produced by or found in the air; performed in
the air; as, aërial regions or currents. "Aërial spirits." Milton.
"Aërial voyages." Darwin.

2. Consisting of air; resembling, or partaking of the nature of air.
Hence: Unsubstantial; unreal.

3. Rising aloft in air; high; lofty; as, aërial spires.

4. Growing, forming, or existing in the air, as opposed to growing or
existing in earth or water, or underground; as, aërial rootlets,
aërial plants. Gray.

5. Light as air; ethereal. Aërial acid, carbonic acid. [Obs.] Ure.
 -- Aërial perspective. See Perspective.

AERIALITY
A*ë`ri*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being aërial; [R.] De Quincey.

AERIALLY
A*ë"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Like, or from, the air; in an aërial manner. "A murmur heard
aërially." Tennyson.

AERIAL RAILWAY
A*ë`ri*al rail"way`. (a) A stretched wire or rope elevated above the
ground and forming a way along which a trolley may travel, for
conveying a load suspended from the trolley.
 (b) An elevated cableway.

AERIAL SICKNESS
A*ë"ri*al sick"ness.

Defn: A sickness felt by aëronauts due to high speed of flights and
rapidity in changing altitudes, combining some symptoms of mountain
sickness and some of seasickness.

AERIE
Ae"rie, n. Etym: [OE. aire, eire, air, nest, also origin, descent,
OF. aire, LL. area, aera, nest of a bird of prey, perh. fr. L. area
an open space (for birds of prey like to build their nests on flat
and open spaces on the top of high rocks). Cf. Area.]

Defn: The nest of a bird of prey, as of an eagle or hawk; also a
brood of such birds; eyrie. Shak. Also fig.: A human residence or
resting place perched like an eagle's nest.

AERIFEROUS
A`ër*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. aër air + -ferous: cf. F. aérifère.]

Defn: Conveying or containing air; air-bearing; as, the windpipe is
an aëriferous tube.

AERIFICATION
A`ër*i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aérification. See A.]

1. The act of combining air with another substance, or the state of
being filled with air.

2. The act of becoming aërified, or of changing from a solid or
liquid form into an aëriform state; the state of being aëriform.

AERIFORM
A"ër*i*form, a. Etym: [L. aër air + -form: cf. F. aériforme.]

Defn: Having the form or nature of air, or of an elastic fluid;
gaseous. Hence fig.: Unreal.

AERIFY
A"ër*i*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. aër air + -fly.]

1. To infuse air into; to combine air with.

2. To change into an aëriform state.

AERO-
A"ër*o-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The combining form of the Greek word meaning air.

AEROBIC
A`ër*o"bic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Growing or thriving only in the presence of oxygen; also,
pertaining to, or induced by, aërobies; as, aërobic fermentation. --
A`ër*o"bic*al*ly (#), adv.

AEROBIES
A"ër*o*bies, n. pl. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Microörganisms which live in contact with the air and need
oxygen for their growth; as the microbacteria which form on the
surface of putrefactive fluids.

AEROBIOTIC
A`ër*o*bi*ot"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Related to, or of the nature of, aërobies; as, aërobiotic
plants, which live only when supplied with free oxygen.

AEROBOAT
A"ër*o*boat`, n. [Aëro- + boat.]

Defn: A form of hydro-aëroplane; a flying boat.

AEROBUS
A"ër*o*bus`, n.  [Aëro-+ bus.]

Defn: An aëroplane or airship designed to carry passengers.

AEROCLUB
A"ër*o*club`, n. [Aëro- + club.]

Defn: A club or association of persons interested in aëronautics.

AEROCURVE
A"ër*o*curve`, n. [Aëro- + curve.] (Aëronautics)

Defn: A modification of the aëroplane, having curved surfaces, the
advantages of which were first demonstrated by Lilienthal.

AEROCYST
A"ër*o*cyst, n. Etym: [Aëro- + cyst.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the air cells of algals.

AEROCYST
A"ër*o*cyst, n. [Aëro-+ cyst.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the air cells of algals.

AERODONETICS
A`ë*ro*do*net"ics, n. [Aëro- + Gr.  shaken,  to shake.] (Aëronautics)

Defn: The science of gliding and soaring flight.

AERODROME
A"ë*ro*drome`, n. [Aëro- + Gr.  a running.] (Aëronautics) (a) A shed
for housing an airship or aëroplane.
 (b) A ground or field, esp. one equipped with housing and other
facilities, used for flying purposes. -- A`ër*o*drom"ic (#), a.

AERODYNAMIC
A"ër*o*dy*nam"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the force of air in motion.

AERODYNAMICS
A`ër*o*dy*nam"ics, n. Etym: [Aëro- + dynamics: cf. F. aérodynamique.]

Defn: The science which treats of the air and other gaseous bodies
under the action of force, and of their mechanical effects.

AEROFOIL
A"ër*o*foil`, n. [Aëro- + foil.]

Defn: A plane or arched surface for sustaining bodies by its movement
through the air; a spread wing, as of a bird.

AEROGNOSY
A`ër*og"no*sy, n. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr. aérognosie.]

Defn: The science which treats of the properties of the air, and of
the part it plays in nature. Craig.

AEROGRAPHER
A`ër*og"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One versed in aëography: an aërologist.

AEROGRAPHIC; AEROGRAPHICAL
A`ër*o*graph"ic, A`ër*o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to aërography; aërological.

AEROGRAPHY
A`ër*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Aëro- + -graphy: cf. F. aérographie.]

Defn: A description of the air or atmosphere; aërology.

AEROGUN
A"ër*o*gun`, n.  [Aëro-+ gun.]

Defn: A cannon capable of being trained at very high angles for use
against aircraft.

AEROHYDRODYNAMIC
A`ër*o*hy`dro*dy*nam"ic, a. Etym: [Aëro- + hydrodynamic.]

Defn: Acting by the force of air and water; as, an aërohydrodynamic
wheel.

AEROLITE
A"ër*o*lite, n. Etym: [Aëro- + -lite: cf. F. aérolithe.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A stone, or metallic mass, which has fallen to the earth from
distant space; a meteorite; a meteoric stone.

Note: Some writers limit the word to stony meteorites.

AEROLITH
A"ër*o*lith, n.

Defn: Same as A.

AEROLITHOLOGY
A`ër*o*li*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Aëro- + lithology.]

Defn: The science of aërolites.

AEROLITIC
A`ër*o*lit"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to aërolites; meteoric; as, aërolitic iron.
Booth.

AEROLOGIC; AEROLOGICAL
A`ër*o*log"ic, A`ër*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to aërology.

AEROLOGIST
A`ër*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in aërology.

AEROLOGY
A`ër*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Aëro- + -logy: cf. F. aérologie.]

Defn: That department of physics which treats of the atmosphere.

AEROMANCY
A"ër*o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Aëro- + -mancy: cf. F. aéromancie.]

Defn: Divination from the state of the air or from atmospheric
substances; also, forecasting changes in the weather.

AEROMECHANIC; AEROMECHANICAL
A`ër*o*me*chan"ic, A`ër*o*me*chan"ical, a.

Defn: Of or pert. to aëromechanics.

AEROMECHANIC
A`ër*o*me*chan"ic, n.

Defn: A mechanic or mechanician expert in the art and practice of
aëronautics.

AEROMECHANICS
A`ër*o*me*chan"ics, n.

Defn: The science of equilibrium and motion of air or an aëriform
fluid, including aërodynamics and aërostatics.

AEROMETER
A`ër*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Aëro- + -meter: cf. F. éromètre.]

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the weight or density of air and
gases.

AEROMETRIC
A`ër*o*met"ric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to aërometry; as, aërometric investigations.

AEROMETRY
A`ër*om"e*try, n. Etym: [Aëro- + -metry: cf. F. érométrie.]

Defn: The science of measuring the air, including the doctrine of its
pressure, elasticity, rarefaction, and condensation; pneumatics.

AERONAT
A"ër*o*nat`, n. [F. aéronat. See Aëro-; Natation.]

Defn: A dirigible balloon.

AERONAUT
A"ër*o*naut, n. Etym: [F. aéronaute, fr. Gr. Nautical.]

Defn: An aërial navigator; a balloonist.

AERONAUTIC; AERONAUTICAL
A`ër*o*naut"ic, A`ër*o*naut"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aéronauitique.]

Defn: Pertaining to aëronautics, or aërial sailing.

AERONAUTICS
A`ër*o*naut"ics, n.

Defn: The science or art of ascending and sailing in the air, as by
means of a balloon; aërial navigation; ballooning.

AERONEF
A"ër*o*nef`, n. [F. aéronef.]

Defn: A power-driven, heavier-than-air flying machine.

AEROPHOBIA; AEROPHOBY
A`ër*o*pho"bi*a, A`ër*oph"o*by, n. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr. aérophobie.]
(Med.)

Defn: Dread of a current of air.

AEROPHONE
A"ër*o*phone`, n. [Aëro- + Gr.  voice.] (a) A form of combined
speaking and ear trumpet.
 (b) An instrument, proposed by Edison, for greatly intensifying
speech. It consists of a phonograph diaphragm so arranged that its
action opens and closes valves, producing synchronous air blasts
sufficient to operate a larger diaphragm with greater amplitude of
vibration.

AEROPHYTE
A"ër*o*phyte (, n. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr. aérophyte.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant growing entirely in the air, and receiving its
nourishment from it; an air plant or epiphyte.

AEROPLANE
A"ër*o*plane` (, n. Etym: [Aëro- + plane.]

Defn: A flying machine, or a small plane for experiments on flying,
which floats in the air only when propelled through it.

AEROPLANIST
A"ër*o*plan`ist, n.

Defn: One who flies in an aëroplane.

AEROSCOPE
A"ër*o*scope (, n. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: An apparatus designed for collecting spores, germs, bacteria,
etc., suspended in the air.

AEROSCOPY
A`ër*os"co*py (, n. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr.

Defn: The observation of the state and variations of the atmosphere.

AEROSE
Æ*rose" (, a. Etym: [L. aerosus, fr. aes, aeris, brass, copper.]

Defn: Of the nature of, or like, copper; brassy. [R.]

AEROSIDERITE
A`ër*o*sid"er*ite (, n. Etym: [Aëro- + siderite.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A mass of meteoric iron.

AEROSPHERE
A"ër*o*sphere (, n. Etym: [Aëro- + sphere: cf. F. aérosphère.]

Defn: The atmosphere. [R.]

AEROSTAT
A"ër*o*stat (, n. Etym: [F. aérostat, fr. Gr. Statics.]

1. A balloon.

2. A balloonist; an aëronaut.

AEROSTATIC; AEROSTATICAL
A`ër*o*stat"ic (, A`ër*o*stat"ic*al (, a. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr.
aérostatique. See Statical, Statics.]

1. Of or pertaining to aërostatics; pneumatic.

2. Aëronautic; as, an aërostatic voyage.

AEROSTATICS
A`ër*o*stat"ics (, n.

Defn: The science that treats of the equilibrium of elastic fluids,
or that of bodies sustained in them. Hence it includes aëronautics.

AEROSTATION
A`ër*os*ta"tion (, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aérostation the art of using
aërostats.]

1. Aërial navigation; the art of raising and guiding balloons in the
air.

2. The science of weighing air; aërostatics. [Obs.]

AEROTAXIS
A"ër*o*tax`is, n. [NL. See Aëro-; Taxis.] (Bacteriology)

Defn: The positive or negative stimulus exerted by oxygen on aërobic
and anaërobic bacteria. -- A`ër*o*tac"tic (#), a.

AEROTHERAPENTICS
A`ër*o*ther`a*pen"tics, n. [Aëro- + therapeutics.] (Med.)

Defn: Treatment of disease by the use of air or other gases.

AEROYACHT
A"ër*o*yacht`, n. [Aëro- + yacht.]

Defn: A form of hydro-aëroplane; a flying boat.

AERUGINOUS
Æ*ru"gi*nous (, a. Etym: [L. aeruginosus, fr. aerugo rust of copper,
fr. aes copper: cf. F. érugineux.]

Defn: Of the nature or color of verdigris, or the rust of copper.

AERUGO
Æ*ru"go (, n. Etym: [L. aes brass, copper.]

Defn: The rust of any metal, esp. of brass or copper; verdigris.

AERY
Ae"ry (, n.

Defn: An aerie.

AERY
A"ër*y (, a. Etym: [See Air.]

Defn: Aërial; ethereal; incorporeal; visionary. [Poetic] M. Arnold.

AESCULAPIAN
Æs`cu*la"pi*an (, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Æsculapius or to the healing art; medical;
medicinal.

AESCULAPIUS
Æs`cu*la"pi*us (, n. Etym: [L. Aesculapius, Gr. (Myth.)

Defn: The god of medicine. Hence, a physician.

AESCULIN
Æs"cu*lin (, n.

Defn: Same as Esculin.

AESIR
Æ"sir, n. pl. [Icel., pl. of ass god.]

Defn: In the old Norse mythology, the gods Odin, Thor, Loki, Balder,
Frigg, and the others. Their home was called Asgard.

AESOPIAN; ESOPIAN
Æ*so"pi*an, E*so"pi*an (, a. Etym: [L. Aesopius, from Gr. (.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Æsop, or in his manner.

AESOPIC; ESOPIC
Æ*sop"ic, E*sop"ic (, a. Etym: [L. Aesopicus, Gr.

Defn: Same as Æsopian.

AESTHESIA
Æs*the"si*a (, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Perception by the senses; feeling; -- the opposite of
anæsthesia.

AESTHESIOMETER; ESTHESIOMETER
Æs*the`si*om"e*ter, Es*the`si*om"e*ter (, n. Etym: [Gr. Æsthesia) + -
meter.]

Defn: An instrument to measure the degree of sensation, by
determining at how short a distance two impressions upon the skin can
be distinguished, and thus to determine whether the condition of
tactile sensibility is normal or altered.

AESTHESIS
Æs*the""sis (, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Sensuous perception. [R.] Ruskin.

AESTHESODIC
Æs`the*sod"ic (, a. Etym: [Gr. esthésodique.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Conveying sensory or afferent impulses; -- said of nerves.

AESTHETE
Æs"thete (, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who makes much or overmuch of æsthetics. [Recent]

AESTHETIC; AESTHETICAL
Æs*thet"ic (, Æs*thet"ic*al (, a.

Defn: Of or Pertaining to æsthetics; versed in æsthetics; as,
æsthetic studies, emotions, ideas, persons, etc.
 -- Æs*thet"ic*al*ly, adv.

AESTHETICAN
Æs`the*ti"can, n.

Defn: One versed in æsthetics.

AESTHETICISM
Æs*thet"i*cism, n.

Defn: The doctrine of æsthetics; æsthetic principles; devotion to the
beautiful in nature and art. Lowell.

AESTHETICS; ESTHETICS
Æs*thet"ics, Es*thet"ics (, n. Etym: [Gr. ästhetik, F. esthétique.]

Defn: The theory or philosophy of taste; the science of the beautiful
in nature and art; esp. that which treats of the expression and
embodiment of beauty by art.

AESTHO-PHYSIOLOGY
Æs`tho-phys`i*ol"o*gy(#), n. Etym: [Gr. physiology.]

Defn: The science of sensation in relation to nervous action. H.
Spenser.

AESTIVAL
Æs"ti*val, a. Etym: [L. aestivalis, aestivus, fr. aestas summer.]

Defn: Of or belonging to the summer; as, æstival diseases. [Spelt
also estival.]

AESTIVATE
Æs"ti*vate, v. i. Etym: [L. aestivare, aestivatum.]

1. To spend the summer.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: To pass the summer in a state of torpor. [Spelt also estivate.]

AESTIVATION
Æs`ti*va"tion, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The state of torpidity induced by the heat and dryness of
summer, as in certain snails; -- opposed to hibernation.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The arrangement of the petals in a flower bud, as to folding,
overlapping, etc.; prefloration. Gray. [Spelt also estivation.]

AESTUARY
Æs"tu*a*ry, n. & a.

Defn: See Estuary.

AESTUOUS
Æs"tu*ous, a. Etym: [L. aestuosus, fr. aestus fire, glow.]

Defn: Glowing; agitated, as with heat.

AETHEOGAMOUS
A*ë`the*og"a*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Propagated in an unusual way; cryptogamous.

AETHER
Æ"ther, n.

Defn: See Ether.

AETHIOPS MINERAL
Æ"thi*ops min"er*al. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Ethiops mineral. [Obs.]

AETHOGEN
Æth"o*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of nitrogen and boro

AETHRIOSCOPE
Æ"thri*o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An instrument consisting in part of a differential thermometer.
It is used for measuring changes of temperature produced by different
conditions of the sky, as when clear or clouded.

AETIOLOGICAL
Æ`ti*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to ætiology; assigning a cause.
 -- Æ`ti*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

AETIOLOGY
Æ`ti*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. aetologia, Gr. étiologie.]

1. The science, doctrine, or demonstration of causes; esp., the
investigation of the causes of any disease; the science of the origin
and development of things.

2. The assignment of a cause.

AETITES
A`ë*ti"tes, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: See Eaglestone.

AFAR
A*far", adv. Etym: [Pref. a-.(for on or of) + far.]

Defn: At, to, or from a great distance; far away; -- often used with
from preceding, or off following; as, he was seen from afar; I saw
him afar off.
The steep where Fame's proud temple shines afar. Beattie.

AFEARD
A*feard", p. a. Etym: [OE. afered, AS. af, p. p. of af to frighten;
a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig. meaning out) + fran to frighten.
See Fear.]

Defn: Afraid. [Obs.]
Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises. Shak.

AFER
A"fer, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: The southwest wind. Milton.

AFFABILITY
Af`fa*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. affabilitas: cf. F. affabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being affable; readiness to converse;
courteousness in receiving others and in conversation; complaisant
behavior.
Affability is of a wonderful efficacy or power in procuring love.
Elyot

AFFABLE
Af"fa*ble, a. Etym: [F. affable, L. affabilis, fr. affari to speak
to; ad + fari to speak. See Fable.]

1. Easy to be spoken to or addressed; receiving others kindly and
conversing with them in a free and friendly manner; courteous;
sociable.
An affable and courteous gentleman. Shak.
His manners polite and affable. Macaulay.

2. Gracious; mild; benign.
A serene and affable countenance. Tatler.

Syn.
 -- Courteous; civil; complaisant; accessible; mild; benign;
condescending.

AFFABLENESS
Af"fa*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Affability.

AFFABLY
Af"fa*bly, adv.

Defn: In an affable manner; courteously.

AFFABROUS
Af"fa*brous, a. Etym: [L. affaber workmanlike; ad + faber.]

Defn: Executed in a workmanlike manner; ingeniously made. [R.]
Bailey.

AFFAIR
Af*fair", n. Etym: [OE. afere, affere, OF. afaire, F. affaire, fr. a
faire to do; L.. ad + facere to do. See Fact, and cf. Ado.]

1. That which is done or is to be done; matter; concern; as, a
difficult affair to manage; business of any kind, commercial,
professional, or public; -- often in the plural. "At the head of
affairs." Junius. "A talent for affairs." Prescott.

2. Any proceeding or action which it is wished to refer to or
characterize vaguely; as, an affair of honor, i. e., a duel; an
affair of love, i. e., an intrigue.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: An action or engagement not of sufficient magnitude to be
called a battle.

4. Action; endeavor. [Obs.]
And with his best affair Obeyed the pleasure of the Sun. Chapman.

5. A material object (vaguely designated).
A certain affair of fine red cloth much worn and faded. Hawthorne.

AFFAMISH
Af*fam"ish, v. t. & i. Etym: [F. affamer, fr. L. ad + fames hunger.
See Famish.]

Defn: To afflict with, or perish from, hunger. [Obs.] Spenser.

AFFAMISHMENT
Af*fam"ish*ment, n.

Defn: Starvation. Bp. Hall.

AFFATUATE
Af*fat"u*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. ad + fatuus foolish.]

Defn: To infatuate. [Obs.] Milton.

AFFEAR
Af*fear", v. t. Etym: [OE. aferen, AS. af. See Afeard.]

Defn: To frighten. [Obs.] Spenser.

AFFECT
Af*fect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affected; p. pr. & vb. n. Affecting.]
Etym: [L. affectus, p. p. of afficere to affect by active agency; ad
+ facere to make: cf. F. affectere, L. affectare, freq. of afficere.
See Fact.]

1. To act upon; to produce an effect or change upon.
As might affect the earth with cold heat. Milton.
The climate affected their health and spirits. Macaulay.

2. To influence or move, as the feelings or passions; to touch.
A consideration of the rationale of our passions seems to me very
necessary for all who would affect them upon solid and pure
principles.

3. To love; to regard with affection. [Obs.]
As for Queen Katharine, he rather respected than affected, rather
honored than loved, her. Fuller.

4. To show a fondness for; to like to use or practice; to choose;
hence, to frequent habitually.
For he does neither affect company, nor is he fit for Shak.
Do not affect the society of your inferiors in rank, nor court that
of the great. Hazlitt.

5. To dispose or incline.
Men whom they thought best affected to religion and their country's
liberty. Milton.

6. To aim at; to aspire; to covet. [Obs.]
This proud man affects imperial Dryden.

7. To tend to by affinity or disposition.
The drops of every fluid affect a round figure. Newton.

8. To make a show of; to put on a pretense of; to feign; to assume;
as, to affect ignorance.
Careless she is with artful care, Affecting to seem unaffected.
Congreve.
Thou dost affect my manners. Shak.

9. To assign; to appoint. [R.]
One of the domestics was affected to his special service. Thackeray.

Syn.
 -- To influence; operate; act on; concern; move; melt; soften;
subdue; overcome; pretend; assume.

AFFECT
Af*fect", n. Etym: [L. affectus.]

Defn: Affection; inclination; passion; feeling; disposition. [Obs.]
Shak.

AFFECTATION
Af`fec*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. affectatio: cf. F. affectation.]

1. An attempt to assume or exhibit what is not natural or real; false
display; artificial show. "An affectation of contempt." Macaulay.
Affectation is an awkward and forced imitation of what should be
genuine and easy, wanting the beauty that accompanies what is natural
what is natural. Locke.

2. A striving after. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.

3. Fondness; affection. [Obs.] Hooker.

AFFECTATIONIST
Af`fec*ta"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who exhibits affectation. [R.] Fitzed. Hall.

AFFECTED
Af*fect"ed, p. p. & a.

1. Regarded with affection; beloved. [Obs.]
His affected Hercules. Chapman.

2. Inclined; disposed; attached.
How stand you affected his wish Shak.

3. Given to false show; assuming or pretending to posses what is not
natural or real.
He is . . . too spruce, too affected, too odd. Shak.

4. Assumed artificially; not natural.
Affected coldness and indifference. Addison.

5. (Alg.)

Defn: Made up of terms involving different powers of the unknown
quantity; adfected; as, an affected equation.

AFFECTEDLY
Af*fect"ed*ly, adv.

1. In an affected manner; hypocritically; with more show than
reality.

2. Lovingly; with tender care. [Obs.] Shak.

AFFECTEDNESS
Af*fect"ed*ness, n.

Defn: Affectation.

AFFECTER
Af*fect"er, n.

Defn: One who affects, assumes, pretends, or strives after.
"Affecters of wit." Abp. Secker.

AFFECTIBILITY
Af*fect`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being affectible. [R.]

AFFECTIBLE
Af*fect"i*ble, a.

Defn: That may be affected. [R.]
Lay aside the absolute, and, by union with the creaturely, become
affectible. Coleridge.

AFFECTING
Af*fect"ing, a.

1. Moving the emotions; fitted to excite the emotions; pathetic;
touching; as, an affecting address; an affecting sight.
The most affecting music is generally the most simple.

2. Affected; given to false show. [Obs.]
A drawling; affecting rouge. Shak.

AFFECTINGLY
Af*fect"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In an affecting manner; is a manner to excite emotions.

AFFECTION
Af*fec"tion, n. Etym: [F. affection, L. affectio, fr. afficere. See
Affect.]

1. The act of affecting or acting upon; the state of being affected.

2. An attribute; a quality or property; a condition; a bodily state;
as, figure, weight, etc. , are affections of bodies. "The affections
of quantity." Boyle.
And, truly, waking dreams were, more or less, An old and strange
affection of the house. Tennyson.

3. Bent of mind; a feeling or natural impulse or natural impulse
acting upon and swaying the mind; any emotion; as, the benevolent
affections, esteem, gratitude, etc. ; the malevolent affections,
hatred, envy, etc.; inclination; disposition; propensity; tendency.
Affection is applicable to an unpleasant as well as a pleasant state
of the mind, when impressed by any object or quality. Cogan.

4. A settled good will; kind feeling; love; zealous or tender
attachment; -- often in the pl. Formerly followed by to, but now more
generally by for or towards; as, filial, social, or conjugal
affections; to have an affection for or towards children.
All his affections are set on his own country. Macaulay.

5. Prejudice; bias. [Obs.] Bp. Aylmer.

6. (Med.)

Defn: Disease; morbid symptom; malady; as, a pulmonary affection.
Dunglison.

7. The lively representation of any emotion. Wotton.

8. Affectation. [Obs.] "Spruce affection." Shak.

9. Passion; violent emotion. [Obs.]
Most wretched man, That to affections does the bridle lend. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- Attachment; passion; tenderness; fondness; kindness; love; good
will. See Attachment; Disease.

AFFECTIONAL
Af*fec"tion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the affections; as, affectional impulses;
an affectional nature.

AFFECTIONATE
Af*fec"tion*ate, a. Etym: [Cf. F. affectionné.]

1. Having affection or warm regard; loving; fond; as, an affectionate
brother.

2. Kindly inclined; zealous. [Obs.] Johson.
Man, in his love God, and desire to please him, can never be too
affectionate. Sprat.

3. Proceeding from affection; indicating love; tender; as, the
affectionate care of a parent; affectionate countenance, message,
language.

4. Strongly inclined; -- with to. [Obs.] Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Tender; attached; loving; devoted; warm; fond; earnest; ardent.

AFFECTIONATED
Af*fec"tion*a`ted, a.

Defn: Disposed; inclined. [Obs.]
Affectionated to the people. Holinshed.

AFFECTIONATELY
Af*fec"tion*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: With affection; lovingly; fondly; tenderly; kindly.

AFFECTIONATENESS
Af*fec"tion*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being affectionate; fondness; affection.

AFFECTIONED
Af*fec"tioned, a.

1. Disposed. [Archaic]
Be kindly affectioned one to another. Rom. xii. 10.

2. Affected; conceited. [Obs.] Shak.

AFFECTIVE
Af*fec"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. affectif.]

1. Tending to affect; affecting. [Obs.] Burnet.

2. Pertaining to or exciting emotion; affectional; emotional. Rogers.

AFFECTIVELY
Af*fec"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an affective manner; impressively; emotionally.

AFFECTUOUS
Af*fec"tu*ous, a. Etym: [L. affectuous: cf. F. affectueux. See
Affect.]

Defn: Full of passion or emotion; earnest. [Obs.] --
Af*fec"tu*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] Fabyan.

AFFEER
Af*feer", v. t. Etym: [OF. aforer, afeurer, to tax, appraise, assess,
fr. L. ad + forum market, court of justice, in LL. also meaning pri.]

1. To confirm; to assure. [Obs.] "The title is affeered." Shak.

2. (Old Law)

Defn: To assess or reduce, as an arbitrary penalty or amercement, to
a certain and reasonable sum.
Amercements . . . were affeered by the judges. Blackstone.

AFFEERER; AFFEEROR
Af*feer"er, Af*feer"or, n. Etym: [OF. aforeur, LL. afforator.] (Old
Law)

Defn: One who affeers. Cowell.

AFFEERMENT
Af*feer"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. aforement.] (Old Law)

Defn: The act of affeering. Blackstone.

AFFERENT
Af"fer*ent, a. Etym: [L. afferens, p. pr. of afferre; ad + ferre to
bear.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Bearing or conducting inwards to a part or organ; -- opposed to
efferent; as, afferent vessels; afferent nerves, which convey
sensations from the external organs to the brain.

AFFETTUOSO
Af*fet`tu*o"so, adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: With feeling.

AFFIANCE
Af*fi"ance, n. Etym: [OE. afiaunce trust, confidence, OF. afiance,
fr. afier to trust, fr. LL. affidare to trust; ad + fidare to trust,
fr. L. fides faith. See Faith, and cf. Affidavit, Affy, Confidence.]

1. Plighted faith; marriage contract or promise.

2. Trust; reliance; faith; confidence.
Such feelings promptly yielded to his habitual affiance in the divine
love. Sir J. Stephen.
Lancelot, my Lancelot, thou in whom I have Most joy and most
affiance. Tennyson.

AFFIANCE
Af*fi"ance, v. t. [imp. Affianced; p. pr. Affiancing.] Etym: [Cf. OF.
afiancier, fr. afiance.]

1. To betroth; to pledge one's faith to for marriage, or solemnly
promise (one's self or another) in marriage.
To me, sad maid, he was affianced. Spenser.

2. To assure by promise. [Obs.] Pope.

AFFIANCER
Af*fi"an*cer, n.

Defn: One who makes a contract of marriage between two persons.

AFFIANT
Af*fi"ant, n. Etym: [From p. pr. of OF. afier, LL. affidare. See
Affidavit.] (Law)

Defn: One who makes an affidavit. [U. S.] Burrill.

Syn.
 -- Deponent. See Deponent.

AFFICHE
Af`fiche", n. [F., fr. afficher to affix.]

Defn: A written or printed notice to be posted, as on a wall; a
poster; a placard.

AFFIDAVIT
Af`fi*da"vit, n. Etym: [LL. affidavit he has made oath, perfect tense
of affidare. See Affiance, Affy.] (Law)

Defn: A sworn statement in writing; a declaration in writing, signed
and made upon oath before an authorized magistrate. Bouvier. Burrill.

Note: It is always made ex parte, and without cross-examination, and
in this differs from a deposition. It is also applied to written
statements made on affirmation.

Syn.
 -- Deposition. See Deposition.

AFFILE
Af*file", v. t. Etym: [OF. afiler, F. affiler, to sharpen; a (L. ad)
+ fil thread, edge.]

Defn: To polish. [Obs.]

AFFILIABLE
Af*fil"i*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being affiliated to or on, or connected with in
origin.

AFFILIATE
Af*fil"i*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affiliated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Affiliating.] Etym: [LL. adfiliare, affiliare, to adopt as son; ad +
filius son: cf. F. affilier.]

1. To adopt; to receive into a family as a son; hence, to bring or
receive into close connection; to ally.
Is the soul affiliated to God, or is it estranged and in rebellion I.
Taylor.

2. To fix the paternity of; -- said of an illegitimate child; as, to
affiliate the child to (or on or upon) one man rather than another.

3. To connect in the way of descent; to trace origin to.
How do these facts tend to affiliate the faculty of hearing upon the
aboriginal vegetative processes H. Spencer.

4. To attach (to) or unite (with); to receive into a society as a
member, and initiate into its mysteries, plans, etc.; -- followed by
to or with. Affiliated societies, societies connected with a central
society, or with each other.

AFFILIATE
Af*fil"i*ate, v. i.

Defn: To connect or associate one's self; -- followed by with; as,
they affiliate with no party.

AFFILIATION
Af*fil`i*a"tion, n. Etym: [F. affiliation, LL. affiliatio.]

1. Adoption; association or reception as a member in or of the same
family or society.

2. (Law)

Defn: The establishment or ascertaining of parentage; the assignment
of a child, as a bastard, to its father; filiation.

3. Connection in the way of descent. H. Spencer.

AFFINAL
Af*fi"nal, a. Etym: [L. affinis.]

Defn: Related by marriage; from the same source.

AFFINE
Af*fine", v. t. Etym: [F. affiner to refine; (L. ad) + fin fine. See
Fine.]

Defn: To refine. [Obs.] Holland.

AFFINED
Af*fined", a. Etym: [OF. afiné related, p. p., fr. LL. affinare to
join, fr. L. affinis neighboring, related to; ad + finis boundary,
limit.]

Defn: Joined in affinity or by any tie. [Obs.] "All affined and kin."
Shak.

AFFINITATIVE
Af*fin"i*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Of the nature of affinity.
 -- Af*fin"i*ta*tive*ly, adv.

AFFINITIVE
Af*fin"i*tive, a.

Defn: Closely connected, as by affinity.

AFFINITY
Af*fin"i*ty, n.; pl. Affinities(#). Etym: [OF. afinité, F. affinité,
L. affinites, fr. affinis. See Affined.]

1. Relationship by marriage (as between a husband and his wife's
blood relations, or between a wife and her husband's blood
relations); -- in contradistinction to consanguinity, or relationship
by blood; -- followed by with, to, or between.
Solomon made affinity with Pharaoh. 1 Kings iii. 1.

2. Kinship generally; close agreement; relation; conformity;
resemblance; connection; as, the affinity of sounds, of colors, or of
languages.
There is a close affinity between imposture and credulity. Sir G. C.
Lewis.

2. Companionship; acquaintance. [Obs.]
About forty years past, I began a happy affinity with William
Cranmer. Burton.

4. (Chem.)

Defn: That attraction which takes place, at an insensible distance,
between the heterogeneous particles of bodies, and unites them to
form chemical compounds; chemism; chemical or elective affinity or
attraction.

5. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: A relation between species or highe

6. (Spiritualism)

Defn: A superior spiritual relationship or attraction held to exist
sometimes between persons, esp. persons of the opposite sex; also,
the man or woman who exerts such psychical or spiritual attraction.

AFFIRM
Af*firm", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affirmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Affirming.]
Etym: [OE. affermen, OF. afermer, F. affirmer, affermir, fr. L.
affirmare; ad + firmare to make firm, firmus firm. See Firm.]

1. To make firm; to confirm, or ratify; esp. (Law),

Defn: to assert or confirm, as a judgment, decree, or order, brought
before an appelate court for review.

2. To assert positively; to tell with confidence; to aver; to
maintain as true; -- opposed to deny.
Jesus, . . . whom Paul affirmed to be alive. Acts xxv. 19.

3. (Law)

Defn: To declare, as a fact, solemnly, under judicial sanction. See
Affirmation, 4.

Syn.
 -- To assert; aver; declare; asseverate; assure; pronounce; protest;
avouch; confirm; establish; ratify.
 -- To Affirm, Asseverate, Aver, Protest. We affirm when we declare a
thing as a fact or a proposition. We asseverate it in a peculiarly
earnest manner, or with increased positiveness as what can not be
disputed. We aver it, or formally declare it to be true, when we have
positive knowledge of it. We protest in a more public manner and with
the energy of perfect sincerity. People asseverate in order to
produce a conviction of their veracity; they aver when they are
peculiarly desirous to be believed; they protest when they wish to
free themselves from imputations, or to produce a conviction of their
innocence.

AFFIRM
Af*firm", v. i.

1. To declare or assert positively.
Not that I so affirm, though so it seem To thee, who hast thy
dwelling here on earth. Milton.

2. (Law)

Defn: To make a solemn declaration, before an authorized magistrate
or tribunal, under the penalties of perjury; to testify by
affirmation.

AFFIRMABLE
Af*firm"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being affirmed, asserted, or declared; -- followed
by of; as, an attribute affirmable of every just man.

AFFIRMANCE
Af*firm"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. afermance.]

1. Confirmation; ratification; confirmation of a voidable act.
This statute . . . in affirmance of the common law. Bacon.

2. A strong declaration; affirmation. Cowper.

AFFIRMANT
Af*firm"ant, n. Etym: [L. affirmans, -antis, p. pr. See Affirm.]

1. One who affirms or asserts.

2. (Law)

Defn: One who affirms of taking an oath.

AFFIRMATION
Af`fir*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. affirmatio: cf. F. affirmation.]

1. Confirmation of anything established; ratification; as, the
affirmation of a law. Hooker.

2. The act of affirming or asserting as true; assertion; -- opposed
to negation or denial.

3. That which is asserted; an assertion; a positive as, an
affirmation, by the vender, of title to property sold, or of its
quality.

4. (Law)

Defn: A solemn declaration made under the penalties of perjury, by
persons who conscientiously decline taking an oath, which declaration
is in law equivalent to an oath. Bouvier.

AFFIRMATIVE
Af*firm"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. affirmativus: cf. F. affirmatif.]

1. Confirmative; ratifying; as, an act affirmative of common law.

2. That affirms; asserting that the fact is so; declaratory of what
exists; answering "yes" to a question; -- opposed to negative; as, an
affirmative answer; an affirmative vote.

3. Positive; dogmatic. [Obs.] J. Taylor.
Lysicles was a little by the affirmative air of Crito. Berkeley.

4. (logic)

Defn: Expressing the agreement of the two terms of a proposition.

5. (Alg.)

Defn: Positive; -- a term applied to quantities which are to be
added, and opposed to negative, or such as are to be subtracted.

AFFIRMATIVE
Af*firm"a*tive, n.

1. That which affirms as opposed to that which denies; an affirmative
proposition; that side of question which affirms or maintains the
proposition stated; -- opposed to Ant: negative; as, there were forty
votes in the affirmative, and ten in the negative.
Whether there are such beings or not, 't is sufficient for my purpose
that many have believed the affirmative. Dryden.

2. A word or phrase expressing affirmation or assent; as, yes, that
is so, etc.

AFFIRMATIVELY
Af*firm"a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an affirmative manner; on the affirmative side of a
question; in the affirmative; -- opposed to negatively.

AFFIRMATORY
Af*firm"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Giving affirmation; assertive; affirmative. Massey.

AFFIRMER
Af*firm"er, n.

Defn: One who affirms.

AFFIX
Af*fix", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affixed; p. pr. & vb. n. Affixing.]
Etym: [LL. affixare, L. affixus, p. p. of affigere to fasten to; ad +
figere to fasten: cf. OE. affichen, F. afficher, ultimately fr. L.
affigere. See Fix.]

1. To subjoin, annex, or add at the close or end; to append to; to
fix to any part of; as, to affix a syllable to a word; to affix a
seal to an instrument; to affix one's name to a writing.

2. To fix or fasten in any way; to attach physically.
Should they [caterpillars] affix them to the leaves of a plant
improper for their food. Ray.

3. To attach, unite, or connect with; as, names affixed to ideas, or
ideas affixed to things; to affix a stigma to a person; to affix
ridicule or blame to any one.

4. To fix or fasten figuratively; -- with on or upon; as, eyes
affixed upon the ground. [Obs.] Spenser.

Syn.
 -- To attach; subjoin; connect; annex; unite.

AFFIX
Af"fix, n.; pl. Affixes. Etym: [L. affixus, p. p. of affigere: cf. F.
affixe.]

Defn: That which is affixed; an appendage; esp. one or more letters
or syllables added at the end of a word; a suffix; a postfix.

AFFIXION
Af*fix"ion, n. Etym: [L. affixio, fr. affigere.]

Defn: Affixture. [Obs.] T. Adams.

AFFIXTURE
Af*fix"ture, n.

Defn: The act of affixing, or the state of being affixed; attachment.

AFFLATION
Af*fla"tion, n. Etym: [L. afflatus, p. p. of afflare to blow or
breathe on; ad + flare to blow.]

Defn: A blowing or breathing on; inspiration.

AFFLATUS
Af*fla"tus, n. Etym: [L., fr. afflare. See Afflation.]

1. A breath or blast of wind.

2. A divine impartation of knowledge; supernatural impulse;
inspiration.
A poet writing against his genius will be like a prophet without his
afflatus. Spence.

AFFLICT
Af*flict", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Afflicted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Afflicting.] Etym: [L. afflictus, p. p. of affigere to cast down,
deject; ad + fligere to strike: cf. OF. aflit, afflict, p. p. Cf.
Flagellate.]

1. To strike or cast down; to overthrow. [Obs.] "Reassembling our
afflicted powers." Milton.

2. To inflict some great injury or hurt upon, causing continued pain
or mental distress; to trouble grievously; to torment.
They did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their
burdens. Exod. i. 11.
That which was the worst now least afflicts me. Milton.

3. To make low or humble. [Obs.] Spenser.
Men are apt to prefer a prosperous error before an afflicted truth.
Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To trouble; grieve; pain; distress; harass; torment; wound; hurt.

AFFLICT
Af*flict", p. p. & a. Etym: [L. afflictus, p. p.]

Defn: Afflicted. [Obs.] Becon.

AFFLICTEDNESS
Af*flict"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being afflicted; affliction. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

AFFLICTER
Af*flict"er, n.

Defn: One who afflicts.

AFFLICTING
Af*flict"ing, a.

Defn: Grievously painful; distressing; afflictive; as, an afflicting
event.
 -- Af*flict"ing*ly, adv.

AFFLICTION
Af*flic"tion, n. Etym: [F. affliction, L. afflictio, fr. affligere.]

1. The cause of continued pain of body or mind, as sickness, losses,
etc.; an instance of grievous distress; a pain or grief.
To repay that money will be a biting affliction. Shak.

2. The state of being afflicted; a state of pain, distress, or grief.
Some virtues are seen only in affliction. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Calamity; sorrow; distress; grief; pain; adversity; misery;
wretchedness; misfortune; trouble; hardship.
 -- Affliction, Sorrow, Grief, Distress. Affliction and sorrow are
terms of wide and general application; grief and distress have
reference to particular cases. Affliction is the stronger term. The
suffering lies deeper in the soul, and usually arises from some
powerful cause, such as the loss of what is most dear -- friends,
health, etc. We do not speak of mere sickness or pain as "an
affliction," though one who suffers from either is said to be
afflicted; but deprivations of every kind, such as deafness,
blindness, loss of limbs, etc., are called afflictions, showing that
term applies particularly to prolonged sources of suffering. Sorrow
and grief are much alike in meaning, but grief is the stronger term
of the two, usually denoting poignant mental suffering for some
definite cause, as, grief for the death of a dear friend; sorrow is
more reflective, and is tinged with regret, as, the misconduct of a
child is looked upon with sorrow. Grief is often violent and
demonstrative; sorrow deep and brooding. Distress implies extreme
suffering, either bodily or mental. In its higher stages, it denotes
pain of a restless, agitating kind, and almost always supposes some
struggle of mind or body. Affliction is allayed, grief subsides,
sorrow is soothed, distress is mitigated.

AFFLICTIONLESS
Af*flic"tion*less, a.

Defn: Free from affliction.

AFFLICTIVE
Af*flic"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. afflictif.]

Defn: Giving pain; causing continued or repeated pain or grief;
distressing. "Jove's afflictive hand." Pope.
Spreads slow disease, and darts afflictive pain. Prior.

AFFLICTIVELY
Af*flic"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an afflictive manner.

AFFLUENCE
Af"flu*ence, n. Etym: [F. affluence, L. affluentia, fr. affluens, p.
pr. of affluere to flow to; ad + fluere to flow. See Flux.]

1. A flowing to or towards; a concourse; an influx.
The affluence of young nobles from hence into Spain. Wotton.
There is an unusual affluence of strangers this year. Carlyle.

2. An abundant supply, as of thought, words, feelings, etc.;
profusion; also, abundance of property; wealth.
And old age of elegance, affluence, and ease. Coldsmith.

Syn.
 -- Abundance; riches; profusion; exuberance; plenty; wealth;
opulence.

AFFLUENCY
Af"flu*en*cy, n.

Defn: Affluence. [Obs.] Addison.

AFFLUENT
Af"flu*ent, a. Etym: [Cf. F. affluent, L. affluens, -entis, p. pr.
See Affluence.]

1. Flowing to; flowing abundantly. "Affluent blood." Harvey.

2. Abundant; copious; plenteous; hence, wealthy; abounding in goods
or riches.
Language . . . affluent in expression. H. Reed.
Loaded and blest with all the affluent store, Which human vows at
smoking shrines implore. Prior.

AFFLUENT
Af"flu*ent, n.

Defn: A stream or river flowing into a larger river or into a lake; a
tributary stream.

AFFLUENTLY
Af"flu*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: Abundantly; copiously.

AFFLUENTNESS
Af*flu*ent*ness, n.

Defn: Great plenty. [R.]

AFFLUX
Af"flux`, n. Etym: [L. affluxum, p. p. of affluere: cf. F. afflux.
See Affluence.]

Defn: A flowing towards; that which flows to; as, an afflux of blood
to the head.

AFFLUXION
Af*flux"ion, n.

Defn: The act of flowing towards; afflux. Sir T. Browne.

AFFODILL
Af"fo*dill, n.

Defn: Asphodel. [Obs.]

AFFORCE
Af*force", v. t. Etym: [OF. afforcier, LL. affortiare; ad + fortiare,
fr. L. fortis strong.]

Defn: To reënforce; to strengthen. Hallam.

AFFORCEMENT
Af*force"ment, n. Etym: [OF.]

1. A fortress; a fortification for defense. [Obs.] Bailey.

2. A reënforcement; a strengthening. Hallam.

AFFORCIAMENT
Af*for"ci*a*ment, n.

Defn: See Afforcement. [Obs.]

AFFORD
Af*ford", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Afforded; p. pr. & vb. n. Affording.]
Etym: [OE. aforthen, AS. gefor, for, to further, accomplish, afford,
fr. for forth, forward. The prefix ge- has no well defined sense. See
Forth.]

1. To give forth; to supply, yield, or produce as the natural result,
fruit, or issue; as, grapes afford wine; olives afford oil; the earth
affords fruit; the sea affords an abundant supply of fish.

2. To give, grant, or confer, with a remoter reference to its being
the natural result; to provide; to furnish; as, a good life affords
consolation in old age.
His tuneful Muse affords the sweetest numbers. Addison.
The quiet lanes . . . afford calmer retreats. Gilpin.

3. To offer, provide, or supply, as in selling, granting, expending,
with profit, or without loss or too great injury; as, A affords his
goods cheaper than B; a man can afford a sum yearly in charity.

4. To incur, stand, or bear without serious detriment, as an act
which might under other circumstances be injurious; -- with an
auxiliary, as can, could, might, etc.; to be able or rich enough.
The merchant can afford to trade for smaller profits. Hamilton.
He could afford to suffer With those whom he saw suffer. Wordsworth.

AFFORDABLE
Af*ford"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be afforded.

AFFORDMENT
Af*ford"ment, n.

Defn: Anything given as a help; bestowal. [Obs.]

AFFOREST
Af*for"est, v. t. Etym: [LL. afforestare; ad + forestare. See
Forest.]

Defn: To convert into a forest; as, to afforest a tract of country.

AFFORESTATION
Af*for`es*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of converting into forest or woodland. Blackstone.

AFFORMATIVE
Af*form"a*tive, n.

Defn: An affix.

AFFRANCHISE
Af*fran"chise, v. t. Etym: [F. affranchir; (L. ad) + franc free. See
Franchise and Frank.]

Defn: To make free; to enfranchise. Johnson.

AFFRANCHISEMENT
Af*fran"chise*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. affranchissement.]

Defn: The act of making free; enfranchisement. [R.]

AFFRAP
Af*frap", v. t. & i. Etym: [Cf. It. affrappare, frappare, to cut,
mince, F. frapper to strike. See Frap.]

Defn: To strike, or strike down. [Obs.] Spenser.

AFFRAY
Af*fray", v. t. [p. p. Affrayed.] Etym: [OE. afraien, affraien, OF.
effreer, esfreer, F. effrayer, orig. to disquiet, put out of peace,
fr. L. ex + OHG. fridu peace (akin to E. free). Cf. Afraid, Fray,
Frith inclosure.] [Archaic]

1. To startle from quiet; to alarm.
Smale foules a great heap That had afrayed [affrayed] me out of my
sleep. Chaucer.

2. To frighten; to scare; to frighten away.
That voice doth us affray. Shak.

AFFRAY
Af*fray", n. Etym: [OE. afrai, affrai, OF. esfrei, F. effroi, fr. OF.
esfreer. See Affray, v. t.]

1. The act of suddenly disturbing any one; an assault or attack.
[Obs.]

2. Alarm; terror; fright. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. A tumultuous assault or quarrel; a brawl; a fray. "In the very
midst of the affray." Motley.

4. (Law)

Defn: The fighting of two or more persons, in a public place, to the
terror of others. Blackstone.

Note: A fighting in private is not, in a legal sense, an affray.

Syn.
 -- Quarrel; brawl; scuffle; encounter; fight; contest; feud; tumult;
disturbance.

AFFRAYER
Af*fray"er, n.

Defn: One engaged in an affray.

AFFRAYMENT
Af*fray"ment, n.

Defn: Affray. [Obs.] Spenser.

AFFREIGHT
Af*freight", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + freight: cf. F. affréter. See
Freight.]

Defn: To hire, as a ship, for the transportation of goods or freight.

AFFREIGHTER
Af*freight"er, n.

Defn: One who hires or charters a ship to convey goods.

AFFREIGHTMENT
Af*freight"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. affrétement.]

Defn: The act of hiring, or the contract for the use of, a vessel, or
some part of it, to convey cargo.

AFFRET
Af*fret", n. Etym: [Cf. It. affrettare to hasten, fretta haste.]

Defn: A furious onset or attack. [Obs.] Spenser.

AFFRICATE
Af"fri*cate, n. [L. affricatus, p. p. of affricare to rub against;
af- = ad- + fricare to rub.] (Phon.)

Defn: A combination of a stop, or explosive, with an immediately
following fricative or spirant of corresponding organic position, as
pf in german Pfeffer, pepper, z (= ts) in German Zeit, time.

AFFRICTION
Af*fric"tion, n. Etym: [L. affricare to rub on. See Friction.]

Defn: The act of rubbing against. [Obs.]

AFFRIENDED
Af*friend"ed, p. p.

Defn: Made friends; reconciled. [Obs.] "Deadly foes . . .
affriended." Spenser.

AFFRIGHT
Af*fright", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affrighted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Affrighting.] Etym: [Orig. p. p.; OE. afright, AS. afyrhtan to
terrify; a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig. meaning out) + fyrhto
fright. See Fright.]

Defn: To impress with sudden fear; to frighten; to alarm.
Dreams affright our souls. Shak.
A drear and dying sound Affrights the flamens at their service
quaint. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To terrify; frighten; alarm; dismay; appall; scare; startle;
daunt; intimidate.

AFFRIGHT
Af*fright", p. a.

Defn: Affrighted. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AFFRIGHT
Af*fright", n.

1. Sudden and great fear; terror. It expresses a stronger impression
than fear, or apprehension, perhaps less than terror.
He looks behind him with affright, and forward with despair.
Goldsmith.

2. The act of frightening; also, a cause of terror; an object of
dread. B. Jonson.

AFFRIGHTEDLY
Af*fright"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: With fright. Drayton.

AFFRIGHTEN
Af*fright"en, v. t.

Defn: To frighten. [Archaic] "Fit tales . . . to affrighten babes."
Southey.

AFFRIGHTER
Af*fright"er, n.

Defn: One who frightens. [Archaic]

AFFRIGHTFUL
Af*fright"ful, a.

Defn: Terrifying; frightful.
 -- Af*fright"ful*ly, adv. [Archaic]
Bugbears or affrightful apparitions. Cudworth.

AFFRIGHTMENT
Af*fright"ment, n.

Defn: Affright; the state of being frightened; sudden fear or alarm.
[Archaic]
Passionate words or blows . . . fill the child's mind with terror and
affrightment. Locke.

AFFRONT
Af*front", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affronted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Affronting.] Etym: [OF. afronter, F. affronter, to confront, LL.
affrontare to strike against, fr. L. ad + frons forehead, front. See
Front.]

1. To front; to face in position; to meet or encounter face to face.
[Obs.]
All the sea-coasts do affront the Levant. Holland.
That he, as 't were by accident, may here Affront Ophelia. Shak.

2. To face in defiance; to confront; as, to confront; as, to affront
death; hence, to meet in hostile encounter. [Archaic]

3. To offend by some manifestation of disrespect; to insult to the
face by demeanor or language; to treat with marked incivility.
How can any one imagine that the fathers would have dared to affront
the wife of Aurelius Addison.

Syn.
 -- TO insult; abuse; outrage; wound; illtreat; slight; defy; offend;
provoke; pique; nettle.

AFFRONT
Af*front", n. Etym: [Cf. F. affront, fr. affronter.]

1. An encounter either friendly or hostile. [Obs.]
I walked about, admired of all, and dreaded On hostile ground, none
daring my affront. Milton.

2. Contemptuous or rude treatment which excites or justifies
resentment; marked disrespect; a purposed indignity; insult.
Offering an affront to our understanding. Addison.

3. An offense to one's self-respect; shame. Arbuthnot.

Syn.
 -- Affront, Insult, Outrage. An affront is a designed mark of
disrespect, usually in the presence of others. An insult is a
personal attack either by words or actions, designed to humiliate or
degrade. An outrage is an act of extreme and violent insult or abuse.
An affront piques and mortifies; an insult irritates and provokes; an
outrage wounds and injures.
Captious persons construe every innocent freedom into an affront.
When people are in a state of animosity, they seek opportunities of
offering each other insults. Intoxication or violent passion impels
men to the commission of outrages. Crabb.

AFFRONTE
Af*fron*té", a. Etym: [F. affronté, p. p.] (Her.)

Defn: Face to face, or front to front; facing.

AFFRONTEDLY
Af*front"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Shamelessly. [Obs.] Bacon.

AFFRONTEE
Af*fron*tee", n.

Defn: One who receives an affront. Lytton.

AFFRONTER
Af*front"er, n.

Defn: One who affronts, or insults to the face.

AFFRONTINGLY
Af*front"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In an affronting manner.

AFFRONTIVE
Af*front"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to affront or offend; offensive; abusive.
How affrontive it is to despise mercy. South.

AFFRONTIVENESS
Af*front"ive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality that gives an affront or offense. [R.] Bailey.

AFFUSE
Af*fuse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affused; p. pr. & vb. n. Affusing.]
Etym: [L. affusus, p. p. of affundere to pour to; ad + fundere. See
Fuse.]

Defn: To pour out or upon. [R.]
I first affused water upon the compressed beans. Boyle.

AFFUSION
Af*fu"sion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. affusion.]

Defn: The act of pouring upon, or sprinkling with a liquid, as water
upon a child in baptism. Specifically: (Med)

Defn: The act of pouring water or other fluid on the whole or a part
of the body, as a remedy in disease. Dunglison.

AFFY
Af*fy", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affied; p. pr. Affying.] Etym: [OF.
afier, LL. affidare. Cf. Affiance.]

1. To confide (one's self to, or in); to trust. [Obs.]

2. To betroth or espouse; to affiance. [Obs.] Shak.

3. To bind in faith. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu.

AFFY
Af*fy", v. i.

Defn: To trust or confide. [Obs.] Shak.

AFGHAN
Af"ghan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Afghanistan.

AFGHAN
Af"ghan, n.

1. A native of Afghanistan.

2. A kind of worsted blanket or wrap.

AFIELD
A*field", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + field.]

1. To, in, or on the field. "We drove afield." Milton.
How jocund did they drive their team afield! Gray.

2. Out of the way; astray.
Why should he wander afield at the age of fifty-five! Trollope.

AFIRE
A*fire", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + fire.]

Defn: On fire.

AFLAME
A*flame", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flame.]

Defn: Inflames; glowing with light or passion; ablaze. G. Eliot.

AFLAT
A*flat", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + flat.]

Defn: Level with the ground; flat. [Obs.] Bacon.

AFLAUNT
A*flaunt", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flaunt.]

Defn: In a flaunting state or position. Copley.

AFLICKER
A*flick"er, adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flicker.]

Defn: In a flickering state.

AFLOAT
A*float", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + float.]

1. Borne on the water; floating; on board ship.
On such a full sea are we now afloat. Shak.

2. Moving; passing from place to place; in general circulation; as, a
rumor is afloat.

3. Unfixed; moving without guide or control; adrift; as, our affairs
are all afloat.

AFLOW
A*flow", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flow.]

Defn: Flowing.
Their founts aflow with tears. R. Browning.

AFLUSH
A*flush", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flush, n.]

Defn: In a flushed or blushing state.

AFLUSH
A*flush", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flush, a.]

Defn: On a level.
The bank is . . . aflush with the sea. Swinburne.

AFLUTTER
A*flut"ter, adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flutter.]

Defn: In a flutter; agitated.

AFOAM
A*foam", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + foam.]

Defn: In a foaming state; as, the sea is all afoam.

A. F. OF L.
A. F. of L. (Abbrev.)

Defn: American Federation of Labor.

AFOOT
A*foot", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + foot.]

1. On foot.
We 'll walk afoot a while. Shak.

2. Fig.: In motion; in action; astir; in progress.
The matter being afoot. Shak.

AFORE
A*fore", adv. Etym: [OE. afore, aforn, AS. onforan or ætforan; pref.
a- + fore.]

1. Before. [Obs.]
If he have never drunk wine afore. Shak.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: In the fore part of a vessel.

AFORE
A*fore", prep.

1. Before (in all its senses). [Archaic]

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Before; in front of; farther forward than; as, afore the
windlass. Afore the mast, among the common sailors; -- a phrase used
to distinguish the ship's crew from the officers.

AFORECITED
A*fore"cit`ed, a.

Defn: Named or quoted before.

AFOREGOING
A*fore"go`ing, a.

Defn: Going before; foregoing.

AFOREHAND
A*fore"hand` adv.

Defn: Beforehand; in anticipation. [Archaic or Dial.]
She is come aforehand to anoint my body. Mark xiv. 8.

AFOREHAND
A*fore"hand`, a.

Defn: Prepared; previously provided; -- opposed to behindhand.
[Archaic or Dial.]
Aforehand in all matters of power. Bacon.

AFOREMENTIONED
A*fore"men`tioned, a.

Defn: Previously mentioned; before-mentioned. Addison.

AFORENAMED
A*fore"named`, a.

Defn: Named before. Peacham.

AFORESAID
A*fore"said`, a.

Defn: Said before, or in a preceding part; already described or
identified.

AFORETHOUGHT
A*fore"thought`, a.

Defn: Premeditated; prepense; previously in mind; designed; as,
malice aforethought, which is required to constitute murder. Bouvier.

AFORETHOUGHT
A*fore"thought`, n.

Defn: Premeditation.

AFORETIME
A*fore"time`, adv.

Defn: In time past; formerly. "He prayed . . . as he did aforetime."
Dan. vi. 10.

A FORTIORI
A for`ti*o"ri. Etym: [L.] (Logic & Math.)

Defn: With stronger reason.

AFOUL
A*foul", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + foul.]

Defn: In collision; entangled. Totten. To run afoul of, to run
against or come into collision with, especially so as to become
entangled or to cause injury.

AFRAID
A*fraid", p. a. Etym: [OE. afrayed, affraide, p. p. of afraien to
affray. See Affray, and cf. Afeard.]

Defn: Impressed with fear or apprehension; in fear; apprehensive.
[Afraid comes after the noun it limits.] "Back they recoiled,
afraid." Milton.

Note: This word expresses a less degree of fear than terrified or
frightened. It is followed by of before the object of fear, or by the
infinitive, or by a dependent clause; as, to be afraid of death. "I
am afraid to die." "I am afraid he will chastise me." "Be not afraid
that I your hand should take." Shak. I am afraid is sometimes used
colloquially to soften a statement; as, I am afraid I can not help
you in this matter.

Syn.
 -- Fearful; timid; timorous; alarmed; anxious.

AFREET
Af"reet, n.

Defn: Same as Afrit.

AFRESH
A*fresh", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + fresh.]

Defn: Anew; again; once more; newly.
They crucify . . . the Son of God afresh. Heb. vi. 6.

AFRIC
Af"ric, a.

Defn: African.
 -- n.

Defn: Africa. [Poetic]

AFRICAN
Af"ri*can, a. Etym: [L. Africus, Africanus, fr. Afer African.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Africa. African hemp, a fiber prerared from
the leaves of the Sanseviera Guineensis, a plant found in Africa and
India.
 -- African marigold, a tropical American plant (Tagetes erecta).
 -- African oak or African teak, a timber furnished by Oldfieldia
Africana, used in ship building. African violet African-American, a
United States citizen of African descent.

AFRICAN
Af"ri*can, n.

Defn: A native of Africa; also one ethnologically belonging to an
African race.

AFRICANDER
Af`ri*can"der, n.

Defn: One born in Africa, the offspring of a white father and a
"colored" mother. Also, and now commonly in Southern Africa, a native
born of European settlers.

AFRICANISM
Af"ri*can*ism, n.

Defn: A word, phrase, idiom, or custom peculiar to Africa or
Africans. "The knotty Africanisms . . . of the fathers." Milton.

AFRICANIZE
Af"ri*can*ize, v. t.

Defn: To place under the domination of Africans or negroes. [Amer.]
Bartlett.

AFRIT; AFRITE; AFREET
Af"rit, Af"rite(#), Af"reet(#), n. Etym: [Arab. 'ifrit.] (Moham.
Myth.)

Defn: A powerful evil jinnee, demon, or monstrous giant.

AFRONT
A*front", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + front.]

Defn: In front; face to face.
 -- prep. In front of. Shak.

AFT
Aft, adv. & a. Etym: [AS. æftan behind; orig. superl. of of, off. See
After.] (Naut.)

Defn: Near or towards the stern of a vessel; astern; abaft.

AFTER
Aft"er, a. Etym: [AS. æfter after, behind; akin to Goth. aftaro,
aftra, backwards, Icel. aptr, Sw. and Dan. efter, OHG. aftar behind,
Dutch and LG. achter, Gr. -ter is an old comparative suffix, in E.
generally -ther (as in other), and after is a compar. of of, off. Of;
cf. Aft.]

1. Next; later in time; subsequent; succeeding; as, an after period
of life. Marshall.

Note: In this sense the word is sometimes needlessly combined with
the following noun, by means of a hyphen, as, after-ages, after-act,
after-days, after-life. For the most part the words are properly kept
separate when after has this meaning.

2. Hinder; nearer the rear. (Naut.)

Defn: To ward the stern of the ship; -- applied to any object in the
rear part of a vessel; as the after cabin, after hatchway.

Note: It is often combined with its noun; as, after-bowlines, after-
braces, after-sails, after-yards, those on the mainmasts and
mizzenmasts. After body (Naut.), the part of a ship abaft the dead
flat, or middle part.

AFTER
Aft"er, prep.

1. Behind in place; as, men in line one after another. "Shut doors
after you." Shak.

2. Below in rank; next to in order. Shak.
Codrus after PhDryden.

3. Later in time; subsequent; as, after supper, after three days. It
often precedes a clause. Formerly that was interposed between it and
the clause.
After I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee. Matt.
xxvi. 32.

4. Subsequent to and in consequence of; as, after what you have said,
I shall be careful.

5. Subsequent to and notwithstanding; as, after all our advice, you
took that course.

6. Moving toward from behind; following, in search of; in pursuit of.
Ye shall not go after other gods. Deut. vi. 14.
After whom is the king of Israel come out 1 Sam. xxiv. 14.

7. Denoting the aim or object; concerning; in relation to; as, to
look after workmen; to inquire after a friend; to thirst after
righteousness.

8. In imitation of; in conformity with; after the manner of; as, to
make a thing after a model; a picture after Rubens; the boy takes
after his father. To name or call after, to name like and reference
to.
Our eldest son was named George after his uncle. Goldsmith.

9. According to; in accordance with; in conformity with the nature
of; as, he acted after his kind.
He shall not judge after the sight of his eyes. Isa. xi. 3.
They that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. Rom.
viii. 5.

10. According to the direction and influence of; in proportion to;
befitting. [Archaic]
He takes greatness of kingdoms according to bulk and currency, and
not after their intrinsic value. Bacon.
After all, when everything has been considered; upon the whole.
 -- After (with the same noun preceding and following), as, wave
after wave, day after day, several or many (waves, etc.)
successively.
 -- One after another, successively.
 -- To be after, to be in pursuit of in order to reach or get; as, he
is after money.

AFTER
Aft"er, adv.

Defn: Subsequently in time or place; behind; afterward; as, he
follows after.
It was about the space of three hours after. Acts. v. 7.

Note: After is prefixed to many words, forming compounds, but
retaining its usual signification. The prefix may be adverbial,
prepositional, or adjectival; as in after- described, after-dinner,
after-part. The hyphen is sometimes needlessly used to connect the
adjective after with its noun. See Note under After, a., 1.

AFTERBIRTH
Aft"er*birth`, n. (Med.)

Defn: The placenta and membranes with which the fetus is connected,
and which come away after delivery.

AFTERCAST
Aft"er*cast`, n.

Defn: A throw of dice after the game in ended; hence, anything done
too late. Gower.

AFTERCLAP
Aft"er*clap`, n.

Defn: An unexpected subsequent event; something disagreeable
happening after an affair is supposed to be at an end. Spenser.

AFTERCROP
Aft"er*crop`, n.

Defn: A second crop or harvest in the same year. Mortimer.

AFTER DAMP
Aft"er damp`.

Defn: An irrespirable gas, remaining after an explosion of fire damp
in mines; choke damp. See Carbonic acid.

AFTER-DINNER
Aft"er-din`ner(#), n.

Defn: The time just after dinner. "An after-dinner's sleep." Shak.
[Obs.] -- a.

Defn: Following dinner; post-prandial; as, an after-dinner nap.

AFTER-EATAGE
Aft"er-eat`age(#), n.

Defn: Aftergrass.

AFTEREYE
Aft"er*eye`, v. t.

Defn: To look after. [Poetic] Shak.

AFTERGAME
Aft"er*game`, n.

Defn: A second game; hence, a subsequent scheme or expedient. Wotton.
Aftergame at Irish, an ancient game very nearly resembling
backgammon. Beau. & Fl.

AFTER-GLOW
Aft"er-glow(#), n.

Defn: A glow of refulgence in the western sky after sunset.

AFTERGRASS
Aft"er*grass`, n.

Defn: The grass that grows after the first crop has been mown;
aftermath.

AFTERGROWTH
Aft"er*growth`, n.

Defn: A second growth or crop, or (metaphorically) development. J. S.
Mill.

AFTERGUARD
Aft"er*guard`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The seaman or seamen stationed on the poop or after part of the
ship, to attend the after-sails. Totten.

AFTER-IMAGE
Aft"er-im`age(#), n.

Defn: The impression of a vivid sensation retained by the retina of
the eye after the cause has been removed; also extended to
impressions left of tones, smells, etc.

AFTERINGS
Aft"er*ings, n. pl.

Defn: The last milk drawn in milking; strokings. [Obs.] Grose.

AFTERMATH
Aft"er*math, n. Etym: [After + math. See Math.]

Defn: A second moving; the grass which grows after the first crop of
hay in the same season; rowen. Holland.

AFTER-MENTIONED
Aft"er-men`tioned(#), a.

Defn: Mentioned afterwards; as, persons after-mentioned (in a
writing).

AFTERMOST
Aft"er*most, a. superl. Etym: [OE. eftemest, AS. æftemest,akin to
Gothic aftumist and aftuma, the last, orig. a superlative of of, with
the superlative endings -te, -me, -st.]

1. Hindmost; -- opposed to foremost.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Nearest the stern; most aft.

AFTERNOON
Aft"er*noon", n.

Defn: The part of the day which follows noon, between noon and
evening.

AFTER-NOTE
Aft"er-note`(#), n. (Mus.)

Defn: One of the small notes occur on the unaccented parts of the
measure, taking their time from the preceding note.

AFTERPAINS
Aft"er*pains`, n. pl. (Med.)

Defn: The pains which succeed childbirth, as in expelling the
afterbirth.

AFTERPIECE
Aft"er*piece`, n.

1. A piece performed after a play, usually a farce or other small
entertainment.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The heel of a rudder.

AFTER-SAILS
Aft"er-sails`(#), n. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: The sails on the mizzenmast, or on the stays between the
mainmast and mizzenmast. Totten.

AFTERSENSATION
Aft"er*sen*sa`tion, n. (Psychol.)

Defn: A sensation or sense impression following the removal of a
stimulus producing a primary sensation, and reproducing the primary
sensation in positive, negative, or complementary form. The
aftersensation may be continuous with the primary sensation or follow
it after an interval.

AFTERSHAFT
Aft"er*shaft`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hypoptilum.

AFTERTASTE
Aft"er*taste`, n.

Defn: A taste which remains in the mouth after eating or drinking.

AFTERTHOUGHT
Aft"er*thought`, n.

Defn: Reflection after an act; later or subsequent thought or
expedient.

AFTERWARDS; AFTERWARD
Aft"er*wards, Aft"er*ward, adv. Etym: [AS. æfteweard, a., behind. See
Aft, and -ward (suffix). The final s in afterwards is adverbial,
orig. a genitive ending.]

Defn: At a later or succeeding time.

AFTERWISE
Aft"er*wise`, a.

Defn: Wise after the event; wise or knowing, when it is too late.

AFTER-WIT
Aft"er-wit`, n.

Defn: Wisdom or perception that comes after it can be of use. "After-
wit comes too late when the mischief is done." L'Estrange.

AFTER-WITTED
Aft"er-wit`ted, a.

Defn: Characterized by afterwit; slow-witted. Tyndale.

AFTMOST
Aft"most, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Nearest the stern.

AFTWARD
Aft"ward, adv. (Naut.)

Defn: Toward the stern.

AGA; AGHA
A*ga" or A*gha", n. Etym: [Turk. adha a great lord, chief master.]

Defn: In Turkey, a commander or chief officer. It is used also as a
title of respect.

AGAIN
A*gain", adv. Etym: [OE. agein, agayn, AS. ongegn, ongeán, against,
again; on + geán, akin to Ger. gegewn against, Icel. gegn. Cf.
Gainsay.]

1. In return, back; as, bring us word again.

2. Another time; once more; anew.
If a man die, shall he live again Job xiv. 14.

3. Once repeated; -- of quantity; as, as large again, half as much
again.

4. In any other place. [Archaic] Bacon.

5. On the other hand. "The one is my sovereign . . . the other again
is my kinsman." Shak.

6. Moreover; besides; further.
Again, it is of great consequence to avoid, etc. Hersche
Again and again, more than once; often; repeatedly.
 -- Now and again, now and then; occasionally.
 -- To and again, to and fro. [Obs.] De Foe.

Note: Again was formerly used in many verbal combinations, as, again-
witness, to witness against; again-ride, to ride against; again-come,
to come against, to encounter; again-bring, to bring back, etc.

AGAIN; AGAINS
A*gain", A*gains", prep.

Defn: Against; also, towards (in order to meet). [Obs.]
Albeit that it is again his kind. Chaucer.

AGAINBUY
A*gain"buy`, v. t.

Defn: To redeem. [Obs.] Wyclif.

AGAINSAY
A*gain"say`, v. t.

Defn: To gainsay. [Obs.] Wyclif.

AGAINST
A*gainst", prep. Etym: [OE. agens, ageynes, AS. ongegn. The s is
adverbial, orig. a genitive ending. See Again.]

1. Abreast; opposite to; facing; towards; as, against the mouth of a
river; -- in this sense often preceded by over.
Jacob saw the angels of God come against him. Tyndale.

2. From an opposite direction so as to strike or come in contact
with; in contact with; upon; as, hail beats against the roof.

3. In opposition to, whether the opposition is of sentiment or of
action; on the other side; counter to; in contrariety to; hence,
adverse to; as, against reason; against law; to run a race against
time.
The gate would have been shut against her. Fielding.
An argument against the use of steam. Tyndale.

4. By of before the time that; in preparation for; so as to be ready
for the time when. [Archaic or Dial.]
Urijah the priest made it, against King Ahaz came from Damascus. 2
Kings xvi. 11.
Against the sun, in a direction contrary to that in which the sun
appears to move.

AGAINSTAND
A*gain"stand`, v. t.

Defn: To withstand. [Obs.]

AGAINWARD
A*gain"ward, adv.

Defn: Back again. [Obs.]

AGALACTIA; AGALAXY
Ag`a*lac"ti*a, Ag"a*lax`y, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Failure of the due secretion of milk after childbirth.

AGALACTOUS
Ag`a*lac"tous, a.

Defn: Lacking milk to suckle with.

AGAL-AGAL
A`gal-a"gal, n.

Defn: Same as Agar-agar.

AGALLOCH; AGALLOCHUM
Ag"al*loch, A*gal"lo*chum, n. Etym: [Gr. aguru, Heb. pl. ahalim.]

Defn: A soft, resinous wood (Aquilaria Agallocha) of highly aromatic
smell, burnt by the orientals as a perfume. It is called also
agalwood and aloes wood. The name is also given to some other
species.

AGALMATOLITE
Ag`al*mat"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. agalmatolithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A soft, compact stone, of a grayish, greenish, or yellowish
color, carved into images by the Chinese, and hence called figure
stone, and pagodite. It is probably a variety of pinite.

AGAMA
Ag"a*ma, n.; pl. Agamas. Etym: [From the Caribbean name of a species
of lizard.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of lizards, one of the few which feed upon vegetable
substances; also, one of these lizards.

AGAMI
Ag"a*mi, n.; pl. Agamis. Etym: [F. agex, fr. the native name.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American bird (Psophia crepitans), allied to the
cranes, and easily domesticated; -- called also the gold-breasted
trumpeter. Its body is about the size of the pheasant. See Trumpeter.

AGAMIC
A*gam"ic, a. Etym: [Agamous.]
(a) (Biol.) Produced without sexual union; as, agamic or unfertilized
eggs.
(b) Not having visible organs of reproduction, as flowerless plants;
agamous.

AGAMICALLY
A*gam"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an agamic manner.

AGAMIST
Ag"a*mist, n. Etym: [See Agamous.]

Defn: An unmarried person; also, one opposed to marriage. Foxe.

AGAMOGENESIS
Ag`a*mo*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Reproduction without the union of parents of distinct sexes:
asexual reproduction.

AGAMOGENETIC
Ag`a*mo*ge*net"ic, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Reproducing or produced without sexual union.
 -- Ag`a*mo*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
All known agamogenetic processes end in a complete return to the
primitive stock. Huxley.

AGAMOUS
Ag"a*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Having no visible sexual organs; asexual. In Bot.,
cryptogamous.

AGANGLIONIC
A*gan`gli*o"nic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + ganglionic.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Without ganglia.

AGAPE
A*gape", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + gape.]

Defn: Gaping, as with wonder, expectation, or eager attention.
Dazzles the crowd and sets them all agape. Milton.

AGAPE
Ag"a*pe, n.; pl. Agapæ. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The love feast of the primitive Christians, being a meal
partaken of in connection with the communion.

AGAR-AGAR
A`gar-a"gar, n. Etym: [Ceylonese local name.]

Defn: A fucus or seaweed much used in the East for soups and jellies;
Ceylon moss (Gracilaria lichenoides).

AGARIC
Ag"a*ric, n. Etym: [L. agaricum, Gr. Agara, a town in Sarmatia.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A fungus of the genus Agaricus, of many species, of which the
common mushroom is an example.

2. An old name for severwal species of Polyporus, corky fungi growing
on decaying wood.

Note: The "female agaric" (Polyporus officinalic) was renowned as a
cathartic; the "male agaric" (Polyporus igniarius) is used for
preparing touchwood, called punk of German tinder. Agaric mineral, a
light, chalky deposit of carbonate of lime, sometimes called rock
milk, formed in caverns or fissures of limestone.

AGASP
A*gasp", adv. & a. Etym: [. a- + gasp.]

Defn: In a state of gasping. Coleridge.

AGAST
A*gast", p. p. & a.

Defn: See Aghast.

AGAST; AGHAST
A*gast" or A*ghast", v. t.

Defn: To affright; to terrify. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

AGASTRIC
A*gas"tric, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Having to stomach, or distinct digestive canal, as the
tapeworm.

AGATE
A*gate", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- on + gate way.]

Defn: On the way; agoing; as, to be agate; to set the bells agate.
[Obs.] Cotgrave.

AGATE
Ag"ate, n. Etym: [F. agate, It. agata, L. achates, fr. Gr.

1. (Min.)

Defn: A semipellucid, uncrystallized variety of quartz, presenting
various tints in the same specimen. Its colors are delicately
arranged in stripes or bands, or blended in clouds.

Note: The fortification agate, or Scotch pebble, the moss agate, the
clouded agate, etc., are familiar varieties.

2. (Print.)

Defn: A kind of type, larger than pearl and smaller than nonpareil;
in England called ruby.

Note: This line is printed in the type called agate.

3. A diminutive person; so called in allusion to the small figures
cut in agate for rings and seals. [Obs.] Shak.

4. A tool used by gold-wire drawers, bookbinders, etc.; -- so called
from the agate fixed in it for burnishing.

AGATIFEROUS
Ag`a*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Agate + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing or producing agates. Craig.

AGATINE
Ag"a*tine, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, agate.

AGATIZE
Ag"a*tize, v. t. Etym: [Usually p. p. Agatized(#).]

Defn: To convert into agate; to make resemble agate. Dana.

AGATY
Ag"a*ty, a.

Defn: Of the nature of agate, or containing agate.

AGAVE
A*ga"ve, n. Etym: [L. Agave, prop. name, fr. Gr. (bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants (order Amaryllidaceæ) of which the chief
species is the maguey or century plant (A. Americana), wrongly called
Aloe. It is from ten to seventy years, according to climate, in
attaining maturity, when it produces a gigantic flower stem,
sometimes forty feet in height, and perishes. The fermented juice is
the pulque of the Mexicans; distilled, it yields mescal. A strong
thread and a tough paper are made from the leaves, and the wood has
many uses.

AGAZED
A*gazed", p. p. Etym: [Only in p. p.; another spelling for aghast.]

Defn: Gazing with astonishment; amazed. [Obs.]
The whole army stood agazed on him. Shak.

AGE
Age, n. Etym: [OF. aage, eage, F. âge, fr. L. aetas through a
supposed LL. aetaticum. L. aetas is contracted fr. aevitas, fr. aevum
lifetime, age; akin to E. aye ever. Cf. Each.]

1. The whole duration of a being, whether animal, vegetable, or other
kind; lifetime.
Mine age is as nothing before thee. Ps. xxxix. 5.

2. That part of the duration of a being or a thing which is between
its beginning and any given time; as, what is the present age of a
man, or of the earth

3. The latter part of life; an advanced period of life; seniority;
state of being old.
Nor wrong mine age with this indignity. Shak.

4. One of the stages of life; as, the age of infancy, of youth, etc.
Shak.

5. Mature age; especially, the time of life at which one attains full
personal rights and capacities; as, to come of age; he (or she) is of
age. Abbott.

Note: In the United States, both males and females are of age when
twenty-one years old.

6. The time of life at which some particular power or capacity is
understood to become vested; as, the age of consent; the age of
discretion. Abbott.

7. A particular period of time in history, as distinguished from
others; as, the golden age, the age of Pericles. "The spirit of the
age." Prescott.
Truth, in some age or other, will find her witness. Milton.
Archeological ages are designated as three: The Stone age (the early
and the later stone age, called paleolithic and neolithic), the
Bronze age, and the Iron age. During the Age of Stone man is supposed
to have employed stone for weapons and implements. See Augustan,
Brazen, Golden, Heroic, Middle.

8. A great period in the history of the Earth.

Note: The geologic ages are as follows: 1. The Archæan, including the
time when was no life and the time of the earliest and simplest forms
of life. 2. The age of Invertebrates, or the Silurian, when the life
on the globe consisted distinctively of invertebrates. 3. The age of
Fishes, or the Devonian, when fishes were the dominant race. 4. The
age of Coal Plants, or Acrogens, or the Carboniferous age. 5. The
Mesozoic or Secondary age, or age of Reptiles, when reptiles
prevailed in great numbers and of vast size. 6. The Tertiary age, or
age of Mammals, when the mammalia, or quadrupeds, abounded, and were
the dominant race. 7. The Quaternary age, or age of Man, or the
modern era. Dana.

9. A century; the period of one hundred years.
Fleury . . . apologizes for these five ages. Hallam.

10. The people who live at a particular period; hence, a generation.
"Ages yet unborn." Pope.
The way which the age follows. J. H. Newman.
Lo! where the stage, the poor, degraded stage, Holds its warped
mirror to a gaping age. C. Sprague.

11. A long time. [Colloq.] "He made minutes an age." Tennyson. Age of
a tide, the time from the origin of a tide in the South Pacific Ocean
to its arrival at a given place.
 -- Moon's age, the time that has elapsed since the last preceding
conjunction of the sun and moon.

Note: Age is used to form the first part of many compounds; as,
agelasting, age-adorning, age-worn, age-enfeebled, agelong.

Syn.
 -- Time; period; generation; date; era; epoch.

AGE
Age, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Aged; p. pr. & vb. n. Aging.]

Defn: To grow aged; to become old; to show marks of age; as, he grew
fat as he aged.
They live one hundred and thirty years, and never age for all that.
Holland.
I am aging; that is, I have a whitish, or rather a light-colored,
hair here and there. Landor.

AGE
Age, v. t.

Defn: To cause to grow old; to impart the characteristics of age to;
as, grief ages us.

AGED
A"ged, a.

1. Old; having lived long; having lived almost to or beyond the usual
time allotted to that species of being; as, an aged man; an aged oak.

2. Belonging to old age. "Aged cramps." Shak.

3. Having a certain age; at the age of; having lived; as, a man aged
forty years.

AGEDLY
A"ged*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an aged person.

AGEDNESS
A"ged*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being aged; oldness.
Custom without truth is but agedness of error. Milton.

AGELESS
Age"less, a.

Defn: Without old age limits of duration; as, fountains of ageless
youth.

AGEN
A*gen", adv. & prep.

Defn: See Again. [Obs.]

AGENCY
A"gen*cy, n.; pl. Agencies. Etym: [agentia, fr. L. agens, agentis:
cf. F. agence. See Agent.]

1. The faculty of acting or of exerting power; the state of being in
action; action; instrumentality.
The superintendence and agency of Providence in the natural world.
Woodward.

2. The office of an agent, or factor; the relation between a
principal and his agent; business of one intrusted with the concerns
of another.

3. The place of business of am agent.

Syn.
 -- Action; operation; efficiency; management.

AGEND
A"gend, n.

Defn: See Agendum. [Obs.]

AGENDUM
A*gen"dum, n.; pl. Agenda. Etym: [L., neut. of the gerundive of agere
to act.]

1. Something to be done; in the pl., a memorandum book.

2. A church service; a ritual or liturgy. [In this sense, usually
Agenda.]

AGENESIC
Ag`e*nes"ic, a. Etym: [See Agensis.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Characterized by sterility; infecund.

AGENESIS
A*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Any imperfect development of the body, or any anomaly of
organization.

AGENNESIS
Ag`en*ne"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Impotence; sterility.

AGENT
A"gent, a. Etym: [L. agens, agentis, p. pr. of agere to act; akin to
Gr. aka to drive, Skr. aj.

Defn: Actingpatient, or sustaining, action. [Archaic] "The body
agent." Bacon.

AGENT
A"gent, n.

1. One who exerts power, or has the power to act; an actor.
Heaven made us agents, free to good or ill. Dryden.

2. One who acts for, or in the place of, another, by authority from
him; one intrusted with the business of another; a substitute; a
deputy; a factor.

3. An active power or cause; that which has the power to produce an
effect; as, a physical, chemical, or medicinal agent; as, heat is a
powerful agent.

AGENTIAL
A*gen"tial, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an agent or an agency. Fitzed. Hall.

AGENTSHIP
A"gent*ship, n.

Defn: Agency. Beau. & Fl.

AGERATUM
A*ger"a*tum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, one species of which (A. Mexicanum) has
lavender-blue flowers in dense clusters.

AGGENERATION
Ag*gen`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. aggenerare to beget in addition. See
Generate.]

Defn: The act of producing in addition. [Obs.] T. Stanley.

AGGER
Ag"ger, n. Etym: [L., a mound, fr. aggerere to bear to a place, heap
up; ad + gerere to bear.]

Defn: An earthwork; a mound; a raised work. [Obs.] Hearne.

AGGERATE
Ag"ger*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. aggeratus, p. p. of aggerare. See Agger.]

Defn: To heap up. [Obs.] Foxe.

AGGERATION
Ag`ger*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. aggeratio.]

Defn: A heaping up; accumulation; as, aggerations of sand. [R.]

AGGEROSE
Ag`ger*ose", a.

Defn: In heaps; full of heaps.

AGGEST
Ag*gest", v. t. Etym: [L. aggestus, p. p. of aggerere. See Agger.]

Defn: To heap up. [Obs.]
The violence of the waters aggested the earth. Fuller.

AGGLOMERATE
Ag*glom"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Agglomerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Agglomerating.] Etym: [L. agglomeratus, p. p. of agglomerare; ad +
glomerare to form into a ball. See Glomerate.]

Defn: To wind or collect into a ball; hence, to gather into a mass or
anything like a mass.
Where he builds the agglomerated pile. Cowper.

AGGLOMERATE
Ag*glom"er*ate, v. i.

Defn: To collect in a mass.

AGGLOMERATE
Ag*glom"er*ate, n.

1. A collection or mass.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: A mass of angular volcanic fragments united by heat; --
distinguished from conglomerate.

AGGLOMERATE; AGGLOMERATED
Ag*glom"er*ate, Ag*glom"er*a`ted, a.

1. Collected into a ball, heap, or mass.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Collected into a rounded head of flowers.

AGGLOMERATION
Ag*glom`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. agglomération.]

1. The act or process of collecting in a mass; a heaping together.
An excessive agglomeration of turrets. Warton.

2. State of being collected in a mass; a mass; cluster.

AGGLOMERATIVE
Ag*glom"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Having a tendency to gather together, or to make collections.
Taylor is eminently discursive, accumulative, and (to use one of his
own words) agglomerative. Coleridge.

AGGLUTINANT
Ag*glu"ti*nant, a. Etym: [L. agglutinans, -antis, p. pr. of
agglutinare.]

Defn: Uniting, as glue; causing, or tending to cause, adhesion.
 -- n.

Defn: Any viscous substance which causes bodies or parts to adhere.

AGGLUTINATE
Ag*glu"ti*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Agglutinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Agglutinating.] Etym: [L. agglutinatus, p. p. of agglutinare to glue
or cement to a thing; ad + glutinare to glue; gluten glue. See Glue.]

Defn: To unite, or cause to adhere, as with glue or other viscous
substance; to unite by causing an adhesion of substances.

AGGLUTINATE
Ag*glu"ti*nate, a.

1. United with glue or as with glue; cemented together.

2. (physiol.)

Defn: Consisting of root words combined but not materially altered as
to form or meaning; as, agglutinate forms, languages, etc. See
Agglutination, 2.

AGGLUTINATION
Ag*glu`ti*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. agglutination.]

1. The act of uniting by glue or other tenacious substance; the state
of being thus united; adhesion of parts.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: Combination in which root words are united with little or no
change of form or loss of meaning. See Agglutinative, 2.

AGGLUTINATIVE
Ag*glu"ti*na*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. agglutinatif.]

1. Pertaining to agglutination; tending to unite, or having power to
cause adhesion; adhesive.

2. (Philol.)

Defn: Formed or characterized by agglutination, as a language or a
compound.
In agglutinative languages the union of words may be compared to
mechanical compounds, in inflective languages to chemical compounds.
R. Morris.
Cf. man-kind, heir-loom, war-like, which are agglutinative compounds.
The Finnish, Hungarian, Turkish, the Tamul, etc., are agglutinative
languages. R. Morris.
Agglutinative languages preserve the consciousness of their roots.
Max Müller.

AGGRACE
Ag*grace", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + grace: cf. It. aggraziare, LL.
aggratiare. See Grace.]

Defn: To favor; to grace. [Obs.] "That knight so much aggraced."
Spenser.

AGGRACE
Ag*grace", n.

Defn: Grace; favor. [Obs.] Spenser.

AGGRADE
Ag*grade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aggraded; p. pr. & vb. n. Aggrading.]
(Phys. Geog.)

Defn: To bring, or tend to bring, to a uniform grade, or slope, by
addition of material; as, streams aggrade their beds by depositing
sediment.

AGGRANDIZABLE
Ag"gran*di"za*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being aggrandized.

AGGRANDIZATION
Ag*gran`di*za"tion, n.

Defn: Aggrandizement. [Obs.] Waterhouse.

AGGRANDIZE
Ag"gran*dize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aggrandized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aggrandizing.] Etym: [F. agrandir; à (L. ad) + grandir to increase,
L. grandire, fr. grandis great. See Grand, and cf. Finish.]

1. To make great; to enlarge; to increase; as, to aggrandize our
conceptions, authority, distress.

2. To make great or greater in power, rank, honor, or wealth; --
applied to persons, countries, etc.
His scheme for aggrandizing his son. Prescott.

3. To make appear great or greater; to exalt. Lamb.

Syn.
 -- To augment; exalt; promote; advance.

AGGRANDIZE
Ag"gran*dize, v. i.

Defn: To increase or become great. [Obs.]
Follies, continued till old age, do aggrandize. J. Hall.

AGGRANDIZEMENT
Ag*gran"dize*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. agrandissement.]

Defn: The act of aggrandizing, or the state of being aggrandized or
exalted in power, rank, honor, or wealth; exaltation; enlargement;
as, the emperor seeks only the aggrandizement of his own family.

Syn.
 -- Augmentation; exaltation; enlargement; advancement; promotion;
preferment.

AGGRANDIZER
Ag"gran*di`zer, n.

Defn: One who aggrandizes, or makes great.

AGGRATE
Ag*grate", v. t. Etym: [It. aggratare, fr. L. ad + gratus pleasing.
See Grate, a.]

Defn: To please. [Obs.]
Each one sought his lady to aggrate. Spenser.

AGGRAVATE
Ag"gra*vate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aggravated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aggravating.] Etym: [L. aggravatus, p. p. of aggravare. See
Aggrieve.]

1. To make heavy or heavier; to add to; to increase. [Obs.] "To
aggravate thy store." Shak.

2. To make worse, or more severe; to render less tolerable or less
excusable; to make more offensive; to enhance; to intensify. "To
aggravate my woes." Pope.
To aggravate the horrors of the scene. Prescott.
The defense made by the prisioner's counsel did rather aggravate than
extenuate his crime. Addison.

3. To give coloring to in description; to exaggerate; as, to
aggravate circumstances. Paley.

4. To exasperate; to provoke; to irritate. [Colloq.]
If both were to aggravate her parents, as my brother and sister do
mine. Richardson (Clarissa).

Syn.
 -- To heighten; intensify; increase; magnify; exaggerate; provoke;
irritate; exasperate.

AGGRAVATING
Ag"gra*va`ting, a.

1. Making worse or more heinous; as, aggravating circumstances.

2. Exasperating; provoking; irritating. [Colloq.]
A thing at once ridiculous and aggravating. J. Ingelow.

AGGRAVATINGLY
Ag"gra*va`ting*ly, adv.

Defn: In an aggravating manner.

AGGRAVATION
Ag`gra*va"tion, n. Etym: [LL. aggravatio: cf. F. aggravation.]

1. The act of aggravating, or making worse; -- used of evils, natural
or moral; the act of increasing in severity or heinousness; something
additional to a crime or wrong and enhancing its guilt or injurious
consequences.

2. Exaggerated representation.
By a little aggravation of the features changed it into the Saracen's
head. Addison.

3. An extrinsic circumstance or accident which increases the guilt of
a crime or the misery of a calamity.

4. Provocation; irritation. [Colloq.] Dickens.

AGGRAVATIVE
Ag"gra*va*tive, a.

Defn: Tending to aggravate. Ag*gres"sive*ly, adv.
 -- Ag*gres"sive*ness, n.
No aggressive movement was made. Macaulay.

AGGREGATE
Ag"gre*gate, a. [L. aggregatus, p. p.]

1. Formed by a collection of particulars into a whole mass or sum;
collective.

The aggregate testimony of many hundreds.
Sir T. Browne.

2.  (Anat.) Formed into clusters or groups of lobules; as, aggregate
glands.

3.  (Bot.) Composed of several florets within a common involucre, as
in the daisy; or of several carpels formed from one flower, as in the
raspberry.

4.  (Min. & Geol.) Having the several component parts adherent to
each other only to such a degree as to be separable by mechanical
means.

5.  (Zoöl.) United into a common organized mass; -- said of certain
compound animals.

Corporation aggregate. (Law) See under Corporation.

AGGREGATE
Ag"gre*gate, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Aggregated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aggregating.] [L. aggregatus, p. p. of aggregare to lead to a flock
or herd; ad + gregare to collect into a flock, grex flock, herd. See
Gregarious.]

1. To bring together; to collect into a mass or sum. "The aggregated
soil."  Milton.

2.  To add or unite, as, a person, to an association.

It is many times hard to discern to which of the two sorts, the good
or the bad, a man ought to be aggregated.
Wollaston.

3.  To amount in the aggregate to; as, ten loads, aggregating five
hundred bushels. [Colloq.]

Syn. -- To heap up; accumulate; pile; collect.

AGGREGATE
Ag"gre*gate, n.

1. A mass, assemblage, or sum of particulars; as, a house is an
aggregate of stone, brick, timber, etc.

 In an aggregate the particulars are less intimately mixed than in a
compound.

2.  (Physics) A mass formed by the union of homogeneous particles; --
in distinction from a compound, formed by the union of heterogeneous
particles.

In the aggregate, collectively; together.

AGGREGATELY
Ag"gre*gate*ly, adv.

Defn: Collectively; in mass.

AGGREGATION
Ag`gre*ga"tion, n. [Cf. LL. aggregatio, F. agrégation.]

Defn: The act of aggregating, or the state of being aggregated;
collection into a mass or sum; a collection of particulars; an
aggregate.

Each genus is made up by aggregation of species.
Carpenter.

A nation is not an idea only of local extent and individual momentary
aggregation, but . . . of continuity, which extends in time as well
as in numbers, and in space.
Burke.

AGGREGATIVE
Ag"gre*ga*tive, a. [Cf. Fr. agrégatif.]

1. Taken together; collective.

2.  Gregarious; social. [R.] Carlyle.

AGGREGATOR
Ag"gre*ga`tor, n.

Defn: One who aggregates.

AGGREGE
Ag*grege", v. t. [OF. agreger. See Aggravate.]

Defn: To make heavy; to aggravate. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AGGRESS
Ag*gress", v. i.  [imp. & p. p. Aggressed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aggressing.] [L. aggressus, p. p. of aggredi to go to, approach; ad +
gradi to step, go, gradus step: cf. OF. aggresser. See Grade.]

Defn: To commit the first act of hostility or offense; to begin a
quarrel or controversy; to make an attack; -- with on.

AGGRESS
Ag*gress", n. [L. aggressus.]

Defn: Aggression. [Obs.]

Their military aggresses on others.
Sir M. Hale.

AGGRESS
Ag*gress", v. t.

Defn: To set upon; to attack. [R.]

AGGRESSION
Ag*gres"sion, n. [L. aggressio, fr. aggredi: cf. F. agression.]

Defn: The first attack, or act of hostility; the first act of injury,
or first act leading to a war or a controversy; unprovoked attack;
assault; as, a war of aggression. "Aggressions of power."  Hallam

Syn. -- Attack; offense; intrusion; provocation.

AGGRESSIVE
Ag*gres"sive, a. [Cf. F. agressif.]

Defn: Tending or disposed to aggress; characterized by aggression;
making assaults; unjustly attacking; as, an aggressive policy, war,
person, nation. -- Ag*gres"sive*ly, adv. -- Ag*gres"sive*ness, n.

No aggressive movement was made.
Macaulay.

AGGRESSOR
Ag*gres"sor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. agresseur.]

Defn: The person who first attacks or makes an aggression; he who
begins hostility or a quarrel; an assailant.
The insolence of the aggressor is usually proportioned to the
tameness of the sufferer. Ames.

AGGRIEVANCE
Ag*griev"ance, n. Etym: [OF. agrevance, fr. agrever. See Aggrieve.]

Defn: Oppression; hardship; injury; grievance. [Archaic]

AGGRIEVE
Ag*grieve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aggrieved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aggrieving.] Etym: [OE. agreven, OF. agrever; a (L. ad) + grever to
burden, injure, L. gravare to weigh down, fr. gravis heavy. See
Grieve, and cf. Aggravate.]

Defn: To give pain or sorrow to; to afflict; hence, to oppress or
injure in one's rights; to bear heavily upon; -- now commonly used in
the passive TO be aggrieved.
Aggrieved by oppression and extortion. Macaulay.

AGGRIEVE
Ag*grieve", v. i.

Defn: To grieve; to lament. [Obs.]

AGGROUP
Ag*group", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aggrouped; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aggrouping.] Etym: [F. agrouper; à (L. ad) + groupe group. See
Group..]

Defn: To bring together in a group; to group. Dryden.

AGGROUPMENT
Ag*group"ment, n.

Defn: Arrangement in a group or in groups; grouping.

AGGRY; AGGRI
Ag"gry, Ag"gri, a.

Defn: Applied to a kind of variegated glass beads of ancient
manufacture; as, aggry beads are found in Ashantee and Fantee in
Africa.

AGHAST
A*ghast", v. t.

Defn: See Agast, v. t. [Obs.]

AGHAST
A*ghast", a & p. p. Etym: [OE. agast, agasted, p. p. of agasten to
terrify, fr. AS. pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-, G. er-, orig. meaning out)
+ g to terrify, torment: cf. Goth. usgaisjan to terrify, primitively
to fix, to root to the spot with terror; akin to L. haerere to stick
fast, cling. See Gaze, Hesitate.]

Defn: Terrified; struck with amazement; showing signs of terror or
horror.
Aghast he waked; and, starting from his bed, Cold sweat in clammy
drops his limbs o'erspread. Dryden.
The commissioners read and stood aghast. Macaulay.

AGIBLE
Ag"i*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. agibilis, fr. L. agere to move, do.]

Defn: Possible to be done; practicable. [Obs.] "Fit for agible
things." Sir A. Sherley.

AGILE
Ag"ile, a. Etym: [F. agile, L. agilis, fr. agere to move. See Agent.]

Defn: Having the faculty of quick motion in the limbs; apt or ready
to move; nimble; active; as, an agile boy; an agile tongue.
Shaking it with agile hand. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Active; alert; nimble; brisk; lively; quick.

AGILELY
Ag"ile*ly, adv.

Defn: In an agile manner; nimbly.

AGILENESS
Ag"ile*ness, n.

Defn: Agility; nimbleness. [R.]

AGILITY
A*gil"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. agilié, L. agilitas, fr. agilis.]

1. The quality of being agile; the power of moving the limbs quickly
and easily; nimbleness; activity; quickness of motion; as, strength
and agility of body.
They . . . trust to the agility of their wit. Bacon.
Wheeling with the agility of a hawk. Sir W. Scott.

2. Activity; powerful agency. [Obs.]
The agility of the sun's fiery heat. Holland.

AGIO
Ag"i*o, n.; pl. Agios. Etym: [It. aggio exchange, discount, premium,
the same word as agio ease. See Ease.] (Com.)

Defn: The premium or percentage on a better sort of money when it is
given in exchange for an inferior sort. The premium or discount on
foreign bills of exchange is sometimes called agio.

AGIOTAGE
Ag"i*o*tage, n. Etym: [F. agiotage, fr. agioter to practice
stockjobbing, fr. agio.]

Defn: Exchange business; also, stockjobbing; the maneuvers of
speculators to raise or lower the price of stocks or public funds.
Vanity and agiotage are to a Parisian the oxygen and hydrogen of
life. Landor.

AGIST
A*gist", v. t. Etym: [OF. agister; à (L. ad) + gister to assign a
lodging, fr. giste lodging, abode, F. gîte, LL. gistum, gista, fr. L.
jacitum, p. p. of jac to lie: cf. LL. agistare, adgistare. See Gist.]
(Law)

Defn: To take to graze or pasture, at a certain sum; -- used
originally of the feeding of cattle in the king's forests, and
collecting the money for the same. Blackstone.

AGISTATOR
Ag`is*ta"tor, n. Etym: [LL.]

Defn: See Agister.

AGISTER; AGISTOR
A*gist"er, A*gist"or, n. Etym: [Anglo-Norman agistour.] (Law)
(a) Formerly, an officer of the king's forest, who had the care of
cattle agisted, and collected the money for the same; -- hence called
gisttaker, which in England is corrupted into guest-taker.
(b) Now, one who agists or takes in cattle to pasture at a certain
rate; a pasturer. Mozley & W.

AGISTMENT
A*gist"ment, n. Etym: [OF. agistement. See Agist.] (Law)
(a) Formerly, the taking and feeding of other men's cattle in the
king's forests.
(b) The taking in by any one of other men's cattle to graze at a
certain rate. Mozley & W.
(c) The price paid for such feeding.
(d) A charge or rate against lands; as, an agistment of sea banks, i.
e., charge for banks or dikes.

AGITABLE
Ag"i*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. agitabilis: cf. F. agitable.]

Defn: Capable of being agitated, or easily moved. [R.]

AGITATE
Ag"i*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Agitated; p. pr. & vb. n. Agitating.]
Etym: [L. agitatus, p. p. of agitare to put in motion, fr. agere to
move: cf. F. agiter. See Act, Agent.]

1. To move with a violent, irregular action; as, the wind agitates
the sea; to agitate water in a vessel. "Winds . . . agitate the air."
Cowper.

2. To move or actuate. [R.] Thomson.

3. To stir up; to disturb or excite; to perturb; as, he was greatly
agitated.
The mind of man is agitated by various passions. Johnson.

4. To discuss with great earnestness; to debate; as, a controversy
hotly agitated. Boyle.

5. To revolve in the mind, or view in all its aspects; to contrive
busily; to devise; to plot; as, politicians agitate desperate
designs.

Syn.
 -- To move; shake; excite; rouse; disturb; distract; revolve;
discuss; debate; canvass.

AGITATEDLY
Ag"i*ta`ted*ly, adv.

Defn: In an agitated manner.

AGITATION
Ag`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. agitatio: cf. F. agitation.]

1. The act of agitating, or the state of being agitated; the state of
being moved with violence, or with irregular action; commotion; as,
the sea after a storm is in agitation.

2. A stirring up or arousing; disturbance of tranquillity;
disturbance of mind which shows itself by physical excitement;
perturbation; as, to cause any one agitation.

3. Excitement of public feeling by discussion, appeals, etc.; as, the
antislavery agitation; labor agitation. "Religious agitations."
Prescott.

4. Examination or consideration of a subject in controversy, or of a
plan proposed for adoption; earnest discussion; debate.
A logical agitation of the matter. L'Estrange.
The project now in agitation. Swift.

Syn.
 -- Emotion; commotion; excitement; trepidation; tremor;
perturbation. See Emotion.

AGITATIVE
Ag"i*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Tending to agitate.

AGITATO
A`gi*ta"to, a. Etym: [It., agitated.] (Med.)

Defn: Sung or played in a restless, hurried, and spasmodic manner.

AGITATOR
Ag"i*ta`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who agitates; one who stirs up or excites others; as,
political reformers and agitators.

2. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: One of a body of men appointed by the army, in Cromwell's time,
to look after their interests; -- called also adjutators. Clarendon.

3. An implement for shaking or mixing.

AGLEAM
A*gleam", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + gleam.]

Defn: Gleaming; as, faces agleam. Lowell.

AGLET; AIGLET
Ag"let, Aig"let, n. Etym: [F. aiguillette point, tagged point, dim.
of aiguilee needle, fr. LL. acucula for acicula, dim. of L. acus
needle, pinagleter to hook on. See Acute, and cf. Aiguillette.]

1. A tag of a lace or of the points, braids, or cords formerly used
in dress. They were sometimes formed into small images. Hence, "aglet
baby" (Shak.), an aglet image.

2. (Haberdashery)

Defn: A round white staylace. Beck.

AGLEY
A*gley", adv.

Defn: Aside; askew. [Scotch] Burns.

AGLIMMER
A*glim"mer, adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + glimmer.]

Defn: In a glimmering state. Hawthorne.

AGLITTER
A*glit"ter, adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + glitter.]

Defn: Clittering; in a glitter.

AGLOSSAL
A*glos"sal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without tongue; tongueless.

AGLOW
A*glow", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + glow.]

Defn: In a glow; glowing; as, cheeks aglow; the landscape all aglow.

AGLUTITION
Ag`lu*ti"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. a- not + L. glutire to swallow.]
(Med.)

Defn: Inability to swallow.

AGMINAL
Ag"mi*nal, a. Etym: [L. agminalis; agmen, agminis, a train.]

Defn: Pertaining to an army marching, or to a train. [R.]

AGMINATE; AGMINATED
Ag"mi*nate, Ag"mi*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. agmen, agminis, a train,
crowd.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Grouped together; as, the agminated glands of Peyer in the
small intestine.

AGNAIL
Ag"nail, n. Etym: [AS. angnægl; ange vexation, trouble + nægel nail.
Cf. Hangnail.]

1. A corn on the toe or foot. [Obs.]

2. An inflammation or sore under or around the nail; also, a
hangnail.

AGNATE
Ag"nate, a. Etym: [L. agnatus, p. p. of agnasci to be born in
addition to; ad + nasci (for gnasci) to be born. Cf. Adnate.]

1. Related or akin by the father's side; also, sprung from the same
male ancestor.

2. Allied; akin. "Agnate words." Pownall.
Assume more or less of a fictitious character, but congenial and
agnate with the former. Landor.

AGNATE
Ag"nate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. agnat.] (Civil Law)

Defn: A relative whose relationship can be traced exclusively through
males.

AGNATIC
Ag*nat"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. agnatique.]

Defn: Pertaining to descent by the male line of ancestors. "The
agnatic succession." Blackstone.

AGNATION
Ag*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. agnatio: cf. F. agnation.]

1. (Civil Law)

Defn: Consanguinity by a line of males only, as distinguished from
cognation. Bouvier.

AGNITION
Ag*ni"tion, n. Etym: [L. agnitio, fr. agnoscere. See Notion.]

Defn: Acknowledgment. [Obs.] Grafton.

AGNIZE
Ag*nize", v. t. Etym: [Formed like recognize, fr. L. agnoscere.]

Defn: To recognize; to acknowledge. [Archaic]
I do agnize a natural and prompt alacrity. Shak.

AGNOIOLOGY
Ag`noi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Metaph.)

Defn: The doctrine concerning those things of which we are
necessarily ignorant.

AGNOMEN
Ag*no"men, n. Etym: [L.; ad + nomen name.]

1. An additional or fourth name given by the Romans, or account of
some remarkable exploit or event; as, Publius Caius Scipio Africanus.

2. An additional name, or an epithet appended to a name; as,
Aristides the Just.

AGNOMINATE
Ag*nom"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To name. [Obs.]

AGNOMINATION
Ag*nom`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. agnominatio. See Agnomen.]

1. A surname. [R.] Minsheu.

2. Paronomasia; also, alliteration; annomination.

AGNOSTIC
Ag*nos"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Professing ignorance; involving no dogmatic; pertaining to or
involving agnosticism.
 -- Ag*nos"tic*al*ly, adv.

AGNOSTIC
Ag*nos"tic, n.

Defn: One who professes ignorance, or denies that we have any
knowledge, save of phenomena; one who supports agnosticism, neither
affirming nor denying the existence of a personal Deity, a future
life, etc.

AGNOSTICISM
Ag*nos"ti*cism, n.

Defn: That doctrine which, professing ignorance, neither asserts nor
denies. Specifically: (Theol.)

Defn: The doctrine that the existence of a personal Deity, an unseen
world, etc., can be neither proved nor disproved, because of the
necessary limits of the human mind (as sometimes charged upon
Hamilton and Mansel), or because of the insufficiency of the evidence
furnished by physical and physical data, to warrant a positive
conclusion (as taught by the school of Herbert Spencer); -- opposed
alike dogmatic skepticism and to dogmatic theism.

AGNUS
Ag"nus, n.; pl. E. Agnuses; L. Agni. Etym: [L., a lamb.]

Defn: Agnus Dei.

AGNUS CASTUS
Ag"nus cas"tus. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Vitex (V. agnus castus); the chaste tree. Loudon.
And wreaths of agnus castus others bore. Dryden.

AGNUS DEI
Ag"nus De"i. Etym: [L., lamb of God.] (R. C. Ch.)
(a) A figure of a lamb bearing a cross or flag.
(b) A cake of wax stamped with such a figure. It is made from the
remains of the paschal candles and blessed by the Pope.
(c) A triple prayer in the sacrifice of the Mass, beginning with the
words "Agnus Dei."

AGNUS SCYTHICUS
Ag"nus Scyth"i*cus. [L., Scythian lamb.] (Bot.)

Defn: The Scythian lamb, a kind of woolly-skinned rootstock. See
Barometz.

AGO
A*go", a. & adv. Etym: [OE. ago, agon, p. p. of agon to go away, pass
by, AS. agan to pass away; a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig. meaning
out) + gan to go. See Go.]

Defn: Past; gone by; since; as, ten years ago; gone long ago.

AGOG
A*gog", a. & adv. Etym: [Cf. F. gogue fun, perhaps of Celtic origin.]

Defn: In eager desire; eager; astir.
All agog to dash through thick and thin. Cowper.

AGOING
A*go"ing, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + p. pr. of go.]

Defn: In motion; in the act of going; as, to set a mill agoing.

AGON
Ag"on, n.; pl. Agones. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A contest for a prize at the public games.

AGONE
A*gone", a. & adv.

Defn: Ago. [Archaic. & Poet.]
Three days agone I fell sick. 1 Sam. xxx. 13.

AGONE
A"gone, n. Etym: [See Agonic.]

Defn: Agonic line.

AGONIC
A*gon"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Not forming an angle. Agonic line (Physics), an imaginary line
on the earth's surface passing through those places where the
magnetic needle points to the true north; the line of no magnetic
variation. There is one such line in the Western hemisphere, and
another in the Eastern hemisphere.

AGONISM
Ag"o*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. Agon.]

Defn: Contention for a prize; a contest. [Obs.] Blount.

AGONIST
Ag"o*nist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who contends for the prize in public games. [R.]

AGONISTIC; AGONISTICAL
Ag`o*nis"tic, Ag`o*nis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Agonism.]

Defn: Pertaining to violent contests, bodily or mental; pertaining to
athletic or polemic feats; athletic; combative; hence, strained;
unnatural.
As a scholar, he [Dr. Parr] was brilliant, but he consumed his power
in agonistic displays. De Quincey.

AGONISTICALLY
Ag`o*nis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an agonistic manner.

AGONISTICS
Ag`o*nis"tics, n.

Defn: The science of athletic combats, or contests in public games.

AGONIZE
Ag"o*nize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Agonized; p. pr. & vb. n. Agonizing.]
Etym: [F. agoniser, LL. agonizare, fr. Gr. Agony.]

1. To writhe with agony; to suffer violent anguish.
To smart and agonize at every pore. Pope.

2. To struggle; to wrestle; to strive desperately.

AGONIZE
Ag"o*nize, v. t.

Defn: To cause to suffer agony; to subject to extreme pain; to
torture.
He agonized his mother by his behavior. Thackeray.

AGONIZINGLY
Ag"o*ni`zing*ly, adv.

Defn: With extreme anguish or desperate struggles.

AGONOTHETE
Ag"o*no*thete`, n. Etym: [Gr. [Antiq.]

Defn: An officer who presided over the great public games in Greece.

AGONOTHETIC
Ag`o*no*thet"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the office of an agonothete.

AGONY
Ag"o*ny, n.; pl. Agonies. Etym: [L. agonia, Gr. agonie. See
Agon.]Etym:

1. Violent contest or striving.
The world is convulsed by the agonies of great nations. Macaulay.

2. Pain so extreme as to cause writhing or contortions of the body,
similar to those made in the athletic contests in Greece; and hence,
extreme pain of mind or body; anguish; paroxysm of grief;
specifically, the sufferings of Christ in the garden of Gethsemane.
Being in an agony he prayed more earnestly. Luke xxii. 44.

3. Paroxysm of joy; keen emotion.
With cries and agonies of wild delight. Pope.

4. The last struggle of life; death struggle.

Syn.
 -- Anguish; torment; throe; distress; pangs; suffering.
 -- Agony, Anguish, Pang. These words agree in expressing extreme
pain of body or mind. Agony denotes acute and permanent pain, usually
of the whole system., and often producing contortions. Anguish
denotes severe pressure, and, considered as bodily suffering, is more
commonly local (as anguish of a wound), thus differing from agony. A
pang is a paroxysm of excruciating pain. It is severe and transient.
The agonies or pangs of remorse; the anguish of a wounded conscience.
"Oh, sharp convulsive pangs of agonizing pride!" Dryden.

A-GOOD
A-good(#), adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + good.]

Defn: In earnest; heartily. [Obs.] "I made her weep agood." Shak.

AGOOD
A*good(a*good"), adv. [Pref. a-+ good.]

Defn: In earnest; heartily. [Obs.] "I made her weep agood."  Shak.

AGORA
Ag"o*ra, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An assembly; hence, the place of assembly, especially the
market place, in an ancient Greek city.

AGOUARA
A*gou"a*ra, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The crab-eating raccoon (Procyon cancrivorus), found in the
tropical parts of America.

AGOUTA
A*gou"ta, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small insectivorous mammal (Solenodon paradoxus), allied to
the moles, found only in Hayti.

AGOUTI; AGOUTY
A*gou"ti, A*gou"ty, n. Etym: [F. agouti, acouti, Sp. aguti, fr.
native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A rodent of the genus Dasyprocta, about the size of a rabbit,
peculiar to South America and the West Indies. The most common
species is the Dasyprocta agouti.

AGRACE
A*grace", n. & v.

Defn: See Aggrace. [Obs.]

AGRAFFE
A*graffe", n. Etym: [F. agrafe, formerly agraffe, OF. agrappe. See
Agrappes.]

1. A hook or clasp.
The feather of an ostrich, fastened in her turban by an agraffe set
with brilliants. Sir W. Scott.

2. A hook, eyelet, or other device by which a piano wire is so held
as to limit the vibration.

AGRAMMATIST
A*gram"ma*tist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A illiterate person. [Obs.] Bailey.

AGRAPHIA
A*graph"i*a, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The absence or loss of the power of expressing ideas by written
signs. It is one form of aphasia.

AGRAPHIC
A*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Characterized by agraphia.

AGRAPPES
A*grappes", n. pl. Etym: [OF. agrappe, F. agrafe; a + grappe (see
Grape) fr. OHG. krapfo hook.]

Defn: Hooks and eyes for armor, etc. Fairholt.

AGRARIAN
A*gra"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. agrarius, fr. ager field.]

1. Pertaining to fields, or lands, or their tenure; esp., relating to
am equal or equitable division of lands; as, the agrarian laws of
Rome, which distributed the conquered and other public lands among
citizens.
His Grace's landed possessions are irresistibly inviting to an
agrarian experiment. Burke.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Wild; -- said of plants growing in the fields.

AGRARIAN
A*gra"ri*an, n.

1. One in favor of an equal division of landed property.

2. An agrarian law. [R.]
An equal agrarian is perpetual law. Harrington.

AGRARIANISM
A*gra"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: An equal or equitable division of landed property; the
principles or acts of those who favor a redistribution of land.

AGRARIANIZE
A*gra"ri*an*ize, v. t.

Defn: To distribute according to, or to imbue with, the principles of
agrarianism.

AGRE; AGREE
A*gre", A*gree", adv. Etym: [F. à gré. See Agree.]

Defn: In good part; kindly. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

AGREE
A*gree", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Agreed; p. pr. & vb. n. Agreeing.] Etym:
[F. agréer to accept or receive kindly, fr. à gré; à (L. ad) + gré
good will, consent, liking, fr. L. gratus pleasing, agreeable. See
Grateful.]

1. To harmonize in opinion, statement, or action; to be in unison or
concord; to be or become united or consistent; to concur; as, all
parties agree in the expediency of the law.
If music and sweet poetry agree. Shak.
Their witness agreed not together. Mark xiv. 56.
The more you agree together, the less hurt can your enemies do you.
Sir T. Browne.

2. To yield assent; to accede; -- followed by to; as, to agree to an
offer, or to opinion.

3. To make a stipulation by way of settling differences or
determining a price; to exchange promises; to come to terms or to a
common resolve; to promise.
Agree with thine adversary quickly. Matt. v. 25.
Didst not thou agree with me for a penny Matt. xx. 13.

4. To be conformable; to resemble; to coincide; to correspond; as,
the picture does not agree with the original; the two scales agree
exactly.

5. To suit or be adapted in its effects; to do well; as, the same
food does not agree with every constitution.

6. (Gram.)

Defn: To correspond in gender, number, case, or person.

Note: The auxiliary forms of to be are often employed with the
participle agreed. "The jury were agreed." Macaulay. "Can two walk
together, except they be agreed " Amos iii. 3. The principal
intransitive uses were probably derived from the transitive verb used
reflexively. "I agree me well to your desire." Ld. Berners.

Syn.
 -- To assent; concur; consent; acquiesce; accede; engage; promise;
stipulate; contract; bargain; correspond; harmonize; fit; tally;
coincide; comport.

AGREE
A*gree", v. t.

1. To make harmonious; to reconcile or make friends. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. To admit, or come to one mind concerning; to settle; to arrange;
as, to agree the fact; to agree differences. [Obs.]

AGREEABILITY
A*gree`a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [OF. agreablete.]

1. Easiness of disposition. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. The quality of being, or making one's self, agreeable;
agreeableness. Thackeray.

AGREEABLE
A*gree"a*ble, a. Etym: [F. agréable.]

1. Pleasing, either to the mind or senses; pleasant; grateful; as,
agreeable manners or remarks; an agreeable person; fruit agreeable to
the taste.
A train of agreeable reveries. Goldsmith.

2. Willing; ready to agree or consent. [Colloq.]
These Frenchmen give unto the said captain of Calais a great sum of
money, so that he will be but content and agreeable that they may
enter into the said town. Latimer.

3. Agreeing or suitable; conformable; correspondent; concordant;
adapted; -- followed by to, rarely by with.
That which is agreeable to the nature of one thing, is many times
contrary to the nature of another. L'Estrange.

4. In pursuance, conformity, or accordance; -- in this sense used
adverbially for agreeably; as, agreeable to the order of the day, the
House took up the report.

Syn.
 -- Pleasing; pleasant; welcome; charming; acceptable; amiable. See
Pleasant.

AGREEABLENESS
A*gree"a*ble*ness, n.

1. The quality of being agreeable or pleasing; that quality which
gives satisfaction or moderate pleasure to the mind or senses.
That author . . . has an agreeableness that charms us. Pope.

2. The quality of being agreeable or suitable; suitableness or
conformity; consistency.
The agreeableness of virtuous actions to human nature. Pearce.

3. Resemblance; concordance; harmony; -- with to or between. [Obs.]
The agreeableness between man and the other parts of the universe.
Grew.

AGREEABLY
A*gree"a*bly, adv.

1. In an agreeably manner; in a manner to give pleasure; pleasingly.
"Agreeably entertained." Goldsmith.

2. In accordance; suitably; consistently; conformably; -- followed by
to and rarely by with. See Agreeable, 4.
The effect of which is, that marriages grow less frequent, agreeably
to the maxim above laid down. Paley.

3. Alike; similarly. [Obs.]
Both clad in shepherds' weeds agreeably. Spenser.

AGREEINGLY
A*gree"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In an agreeing manner (to); correspondingly; agreeably. [Obs.]

AGREEMENT
A*gree"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. agrément.]

1. State of agreeing; harmony of opinion, statement, action, or
character; concurrence; concord; conformity; as, a good agreement
subsists among the members of the council.
What agreement hath the temple of God with idols 2 Cor. vi. 16.
Expansion and duration have this further agreement. Locke.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Concord or correspondence of one word with another in gender,
number, case, or person.

3. (Law)
(a) A concurrence in an engagement that something shall be done or
omitted; an exchange of promises; mutual understanding, arrangement,
or stipulation; a contract.
(b) The language, oral or written, embodying reciprocal promises.
Abbott. Brande & C.

Syn.
 -- Bargain; contract; compact; stipulation.

AGREER
A*gre"er, n.

Defn: One who agrees.

AGRESTIC
A*gres"tic, a. Etym: [L. agrestis, fr. ager field.]

Defn: Pertaining to fields or the country, in opposition to the city;
rural; rustic; unpolished; uncouth. "Agrestic behavior." Gregory.

AGRESTICAL
A*gres"tic*al, a.

Defn: Agrestic. [Obs.]

AGRICOLATION
A*gric`o*la"tion, n. Etym: [L., agricolatio.]

Defn: Agriculture. [Obs.] Bailey.

AGRICOLIST
A*gric"o*list, n.

Defn: A cultivator of the soil; an agriculturist. Dodsley.

AGRICULTOR
Ag"ri*cul`tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. ager field + cultor cultivator.]

Defn: An agriculturist; a farmer. [R.]

AGRICULTURAL
Ag`ri*cul"tur*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to agriculture; connected with, or engaged in,
tillage; as, the agricultural class; agricultural implements, wages,
etc.
 -- Ag`ri*cul"tur*al*ly, adv. Agricultural ant (Zoöl.), a species of
ant which gathers and stores seeds of grasses, for food. The
remarkable species (Myrmica barbata) found in Texas clears circular
areas and carefully cultivates its favorite grain, known as ant rice.

AGRICULTURALIST
Ag`ri*cul"tur*al*ist, n.

Defn: An agriculturist (which is the preferred form.)

AGRICULTURE
Ag"ri*cul`ture, n. Etym: [L. agricultura; ager field + cultura
cultivation: cf. F. agriculture. See Acre and Culture.]

Defn: The art or science of cultivating the ground, including the
harvesting of crops, and the rearing and management of live stock;
tillage; husbandry; farming.

AGRICULTURISM
Ag`ri*cul"tur*ism, n.

Defn: Agriculture. [R.]

AGRICULTURIST
Ag`ri*cul"tur*ist, n.

Defn: One engaged or skilled in agriculture; a husbandman.
The farmer is always a practitioner, the agriculturist may be a mere
theorist. Crabb.

AGRIEF
A*grief", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + grief.]

Defn: In grief; amiss. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AGRIMONY
Ag"ri*mo*ny, n. Etym: [OE. agremoyne, OF. aigremoine, L. agrimonia
for argemonia, fr. Gr. (Bot.)
(a) A genus of plants of the Rose family.
(b) The name is also given to various other plants; as, hemp agrimony
(Eupatorium cannabinum); water agrimony (Bidens).

Note: The Agrimonia eupatoria, or common agrimony, a perennial herb
with a spike of yellow flowers, was once esteemed as a medical
remedy, but is now seldom used.

AGRIN
A*grin", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + grin.]

Defn: In the act of grinning. "His visage all agrin." Tennyson.

AGRIOLOGIST
Ag`ri*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed or engaged in agriology.

AGRIOLOGY
Ag`ri*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: Description or comparative study of the customs of savage or
uncivilized tribes.

AGRISE
A*grise", v. i. Etym: [AS. agrisan to dread; a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger.
er-, orig. meaning out) + grisan, for gr (only in comp.), akin to
OHG. gr, G. grausen, to shudder. See Grisly.]

Defn: To shudder with terror; to tremble with fear. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AGRISE
A*grise", v. t.

1. To shudder at; to abhor; to dread; to loathe. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. To terrify; to affright. [Obs.]
His manly face that did his foes agrise. Spenser.

AGROM
A"grom, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease occurring in Bengal and other parts of the East
Indies, in which the tongue chaps and cleaves.

AGRONOMIC; AGRONOMICAL
Ag`ro*nom"ic, Ag`ro*nom"ic*al, Etym: [Cf. F. agronomique.]

Defn: Pertaining to agronomy, of the management of farms.

AGRONOMICS
Ag`ro*nom"ics, n.

Defn: The science of the distribution and management of land.

AGRONOMIST
A*gron"o*mist, n.

Defn: One versed in agronomy; a student of agronomy.

AGRONOMY
A*gron"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. agronomie.]

Defn: The management of land; rural economy; agriculture.

AGROPE
A*grope", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + grope.]

Defn: In the act of groping. Mrs. Browning.

AGROSTIS
A*gros"tis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: A genus of grasses, including species called in common language
bent grass. Some of them, as redtop (Agrostis vulgaris), are valuable
pasture grasses.

AGROSTOGRAPHIC; AGROSTOGRAPHICAL
A*gros`to*graph"ic, A*gros`to*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
agrostographique.]

Defn: Pertaining to agrostography.

AGROSTOGRAPHY
Ag`ros*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A description of the grasses.

AGROSTOLOGIC; AGROSTOLOGICAL
A*gros`to*log"ic, A*gros`to*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to agrostology.

AGROSTOLOGIST
Ag`ros*tol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in agrostology.

AGROSTOLOGY
Ag`ros*tol"ogy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That part of botany which treats of the grasses.

AGROTECHNY
Ag"ro*tech`ny, n. [Gr.   field, land +  an art.]

Defn: That branch of agriculture dealing with the methods of
conversion of agricultural products into manufactured articles;
agricultural technology.

AGROUND
A*ground", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + ground.]

Defn: On the ground; stranded; -- a nautical term applied to a ship
when its bottom lodges on the ground. Totten.

AGROUPMENT
A*group"ment, n.

Defn: See Aggroupment.

AGRYPNOTIC
Ag`ryp*not"ic, n. Etym: [Gr. agrypnotique.]

Defn: Anything which prevents sleep, or produces wakefulness, as
strong tea or coffee.

AGUARDIENTE
A`guar*di*en"te, n. Etym: [Sp., contr. of agua ardiente burning water
(L. aqua water + ardens burning).]

1. A inferior brandy of Spain and Portugal.

2. A strong alcoholic drink, especially pulque. [Mexico and Spanish
America.]

AGUE
A"gue, n. Etym: [OE. agu, ague, OF. agu, F. aigu, sharp, OF. fem.
ague, LL. (febris) acuta, a sharp, acute fever, fr. L. acutus sharp.
See Acute.]

1. An acute fever. [Obs.] "Brenning agues." P. Plowman.

2. (Med.)

Defn: An intermittent fever, attended by alternate cold and hot fits.

3. The cold fit or rigor of the intermittent fever; as, fever and
ague.

4. A chill, or state of shaking, as with cold. Dryden. Ague cake, an
enlargement of the spleen produced by ague.
 -- Ague drop, a solution of the arsenite of potassa used for ague.
 -- Ague fit, a fit of the ague. Shak.
 -- Ague spell, a spell or charm against ague. Gay.
 -- Ague tree, the sassafras, -- sometimes so called from the use of
its root formerly, in cases of ague. [Obs.]

AGUE
A"gue, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Agued.]

Defn: To strike with an ague, or with a cold fit. Heywood.

AGUILT
A*guilt", v. t.

Defn: To be guilty of; to offend; to sin against; to wrong. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

AGUISE
A*guise", n.

Defn: Dress. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

AGUISE
A*guise", v. t. Etym: [Pref a- + guise.]

Defn: To dress; to attire; to adorn. [Obs.]
Above all knights ye goodly seem aguised. Spenser.

AGUISH
A"gu*ish, a.

1. Having the qualities of an ague; somewhat cold or shivering;
chilly; shaky.
Her aguish love now glows and burns. Granville.

2. Productive of, or affected by, ague; as, the aguish districts of
England. T. Arnold. A"gu*ish*ness, n.

AGUSH
A*gush", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + gush.]

Defn: In a gushing state. Hawthorne.

AGYNOUS
Ag"y*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Without female organs; male.

AH
Ah, interj. Etym: [OE. a: cf. OF. a, F. ah, L. ah, Gr. a, Icel. æ,
OHG. a, Lith. á, á\'a0.]

Defn: An exclamation, expressive of surprise, pity, complaint,
entreaty, contempt, threatening, delight, triumph, etc., according to
the manner of utterance.

AHA
A*ha", interj. Etym: [Ah, interj. + ha.]

Defn: An exclamation expressing, by different intonations, triumph,
mixed with derision or irony, or simple surprise.

AHA
A*ha", n.

Defn: A sunk fence. See Ha-ha. Mason.

AHEAD
A*head", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + head.]

1. In or to the front; in advance; onward.
The island bore but a little ahead of us. Fielding.

2. Headlong; without restraint. [Obs.] L'Estrange. To go ahead. (a)
To go in advance. (b) To go on onward. (c) To push on in an
enterprise. [Colloq] -- To get ahead of. (a) To get in advance of.
(b) To surpass; to get the better of. [Colloq.]

AHEAP
A*heap", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + heap.]

Defn: In a heap; huddled together. Hood.

AHEIGHT
A*height", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + height.]

Defn: Aloft; on high. [Obs.] "Look up aheight." Shak.

AHEM
A*hem", interj.

Defn: An exclamation to call one's attention; hem.

AHEY
A*hey", interj.

Defn: Hey; ho.

AHIGH
A*high", adv.

Defn: On high. [Obs.] Shak.

AHOLD
A*hold", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + hold.]

Defn: Near the wind; as, to lay a ship ahold. [Obs.] Shak.

AHORSEBACK
A*horse"back, adv.

Defn: On horseback.
Two suspicious fellows ahorseback. Smollet.

AHOY
A*hoy", interj. Etym: [OE. a, interj. + hoy.] (Naut.)

Defn: A term used in hailing; as, "Ship ahoy."

AHRIMAN
Ah"ri*man, n. Etym: [Per.]

Defn: The Evil Principle or Being of the ancient Persians; the Prince
of Darkness as opposer to Ormuzd, the King of Light.

AHU
A"hu, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Asiatic gazelle.

AHULL
A*hull", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + hull.] (Naut.)

Defn: With the sails furled, and the helm lashed alee; -- applied to
ships in a storm. See Hull, n.

AHUNGERED
A*hun"gered, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + hungered.]

Defn: Pinched with hunger; very hungry. C. Bronté.

AI
A"i, n.; pl. Ais. Etym: [Braz. aï, haï, from the animal's cry: cf. F.
aï.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The three-toed sloth (Bradypus tridactylus) of South America.
See Sloth.

AIBLINS; ABLINS
Ai"blins, A"blins, adv. Etym: [See Able.]

Defn: Perhaps; possibly. [Scotch] Burns.

AICH'S METAL
Aich's met"al.

Defn: A kind of gun metal, containing copper, zinc, and iron, but no
tin.

AID
Aid, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aided; p. pr. & vb. n. Aiding.] Etym: [F.
aider, OF. aidier, fr. L. adjutare to help, freq. of adjuvare to
help; ad + juvare to help. Cf. Adjutant.]

Defn: To support, either by furnishing strength or means in
coöperation to effect a purpose, or to prevent or to remove evil; to
help; to assist.
You speedy helpers . . . Appear and aid me in this enterprise. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To help; assist; support; sustain; succor; relieve; befriend;
coöperate; promote. See Help.

AID
Aid, n. Etym: [F. aide, OF. aïde, aïe, fr. the verb. See Aid, v. t.]

1. Help; succor; assistance; relief.
An unconstitutional mode of obtaining aid. Hallam.

2. The person or thing that promotes or helps in something done; a
helper; an assistant.
It is not good that man should be alone; let us make unto him an aid
like unto himself. Tobit viii. 6.

3. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A subsidy granted to the king by Parliament; also, an exchequer
loan.

4. (Feudal Law)

Defn: A pecuniary tribute paid by a vassal to his lord on special
occasions. Blackstone.

5. An aid-de-camp, so called by abbreviation; as, a general's aid.
Aid prayer (Law), a proceeding by which a defendant beseeches and
claims assistance from some one who has a further or more permanent
interest in the matter in suit.
 -- To pray in aid, to beseech and claim such assistance.

AIDANCE
Aid"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. aidance.]

Defn: Aid. [R.]
Aidance 'gainst the enemy. Shak.

AIDANT
Aid"ant, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aidant, p. pr. of aider to help.]

Defn: Helping; helpful; supplying aid. Shak.

AID-DE-CAMP
Aid"-de-camp`, n.; pl. Aids-de-camp.. Etym: [F. aide de camp
(literally) camp assistant.] (Mil.)

Defn: An officer selected by a general to carry orders, also to
assist or represent him in correspondence and in directing movements.

AIDER
Aid"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, aids.

AIDFUL
Aid"ful, a.

Defn: Helpful. [Archaic.] Bp. Hall.

AIDLESS
Aid"less, a.

Defn: Helpless; without aid. Milton.

AID-MAJOR
Aid"-ma`jor, n.

Defn: The adjutant of a regiment.

AIEL
Ai"el, n.

Defn: See Ayle. [Obs.]

AIGLET
Aig"let, n.

Defn: Same as Aglet.

AIGRE
Ai"gre, a. Etym: [F. See Eager.]

Defn: Sour. [Obs.] Shak.

AIGREMORE
Ai"gre*more, n. Etym: [F. origin unknown.]

Defn: Charcoal prepared for making powder.

AIGRET; AIGRETTE
Ai"gret, Ai*grette, n. Etym: [F., a sort of white heron, with a tuft
of feathers on its head; a tuft of feathers; dim. of the same word as
heron. See Heron, and cf. Egret, Egrette.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The small white European heron. See Egret.

2. A plume or tuft for the head composed of feathers, or of gems,
etc. Prescott.

3. A tuft like that of the egret. (Bot.)

Defn: A feathery crown of seed; egret; as, the aigrette or down of
the dandelion or the thistle.

AIGUILLE
Ai`guille", n. Etym: [F., a needle. See Aglet.]

1. A needle-shaped peak.

2. An instrument for boring holes, used in blasting.

AIGUILLETTE
Ai`guil*lette", n. Etym: [F. See Aglet.]

1. A point or tag at the end of a fringe or lace; an aglet.

2. One of the ornamental tags, cords, or loops on some military and
naval uniforms.

AIGULET
Ai"gu*let, n.

Defn: See Aglet. Spenser.

AIL
Ail, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ailed; p. pr. & vb. n. Ailing.] Etym: [OE.
eilen, ailen, AS. eglan to trouble, pain; akin to Goth. us-agljan to
distress, agls troublesome, irksome, aglo, aglitha, pain, and prob.
to E. awe.

Defn: To affect with pain or uneasiness, either physical or mental;
to trouble; to be the matter with; -- used to express some uneasiness
or affection, whose cause is unknown; as, what ails the man I know
not what ails him.
What aileth thee, Hagar Gen. xxi. 17.

Note: It is never used to express a specific disease. We do not say,
a fever ails him; but, something ails him.

AIL
Ail, v. i.

Defn: To be affected with pain or uneasiness of any sort; to be ill
or indisposed or in trouble.
When he ails ever so little . . . he is so peevish. Richardson.

AIL
Ail, n.

Defn: Indisposition or morbid affection. Pope.

AILANTHUS
Ai*lan"thus, n.

Defn: Same as Ailantus.

AILANTUS
Ai*lan"tus, n. Etym: [From aylanto, i. e., tree of heaven, the name
of the tree in the Moluccas.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of beautiful trees, natives of the East Indies. The
tree imperfectly di

AILERON
Ai"le*ron, n. [F., dim. of aile wing.]

1.

Defn: A half gable, as at the end of a penthouse or of the aisle of a
church.

2.  (Aëronautics) A small plane or surface capable of being
manipulated by the pilot of a flying machine to preserve or destroy
lateral balance; a hinged wing tip; a lateral stabilizing or
balancing plane.

AILETTE
Ai*lette, n. Etym: [F. ailette, dim. of aile wing, L. ala.]

Defn: A small square shield, formerly worn on the shoulders of
knights, -- being the prototype of the modern epaulet. Fairholt.

AILMENT
Ail"ment, n.

Defn: Indisposition; morbid affection of the body; -- not applied
ordinarily to acute diseases. "Little ailments." Landsdowne.

AILUROIDEA
Ai`lu*roid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of the Carnivora, which includes the cats, civets, and
hyenas.

AIM
Aim, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Aimed; p. pr. & vb. n. Aiming.] Etym: [OE.
amen, aimen, eimen, to guess at, to estimate, to aim, OF. esmer,
asmer, fr. L. aestimare to estimate; or perh. fr. OF. aesmer; ad) +
esmer. See Estimate.]

1. To point or direct a missile weapon, or a weapon which propels as
missile, towards an object or spot with the intent of hitting it; as,
to aim at a fox, or at a target.

2. To direct the indention or purpose; to attempt the accomplishment
of a purpose; to try to gain; to endeavor; -- followed by at, or by
an infinitive; as, to aim at distinction; to aim to do well.
Aim'st thou at princes Pope.

3. To guess or conjecture. [Obs.] Shak.

AIM
Aim, v. t.

Defn: To direct or point, as a weapon, at a particular object; to
direct, as a missile, an act, or a proceeding, at, to, or against an
object; as, to aim a musket or an arrow, the fist or a blow (at
something); to aim a satire or a reflection (at some person or vice).

AIM
Aim, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. esme estimation, fr. esmer. See Aim, v. i.]

1. The pointing of a weapon, as a gun, a dart, or an arrow, in the
line of direction with the object intended to be struck; the line of
fire; the direction of anything, as a spear, a blow, a discourse, a
remark, towards a particular point or object, with a view to strike
or affect it.
Each at the head leveled his deadly aim. Milton.

2. The point intended to be hit, or object intended to be attained or
affected.
To be the aim of every dangerous shot. Shak.

3. Intention; purpose; design; scheme.
How oft ambitious aims are crossed! Pope.

4. Conjecture; guess. [Obs.]
What you would work me to, I have some aim. Shak.
To cry aim (Archery), to encourage. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- End; object; scope; drift; design; purpose; intention; scheme;
tendency; aspiration.

AIMER
Aim"er, n.

Defn: One who aims, directs, or points.

AIMLESS
Aim"less, a.

Defn: Without aim or purpose; as, an aimless life.
 -- Aim"less*ly, adv.
 -- Aim"less*ness, n.

AINO
Ai"no, n. Etym: [Said to be the native name for man.]

Defn: One of a peculiar race inhabiting Yesso, the Kooril Islands
etc., in the northern part of the empire of Japan, by some supposed
to have been the progenitors of the Japanese. The Ainos are stout and
short, with hairy bodies.

AIN'T
Ain't.

Defn: A contraction for are not and am not; also used for is not.
[Colloq. or llliterate speech]. See An't.

AIR
Air, n. Etym: [OE. air, eir, F. air, L. aër, fr. Gr. wind. In sense
10 the French has taking a meaning fr. It. aria atmosphere, air, fr.
the same Latin word; and in senses 11, 12, 13 the French meaning is
either fr. L. aria, or due to confusion with F. aire, in an older
sense of origin, descent. Cf. A, Debonair, Malaria, Wind.]

1. The fluid which we breathe, and which surrounds the earth; the
atmosphere. It is invisible, inodorous, insipid, transparent,
compressible, elastic, and ponderable.

Note: By the ancient philosophers, air was regarded as an element;
but modern science has shown that it is essentially a mixture of
oxygen and nitrogen, with a small amount of carbon dioxide, the
average proportions being, by volume: oxygen, 20.96 per cent.;
nitrogen, 79.00 per cent.; carbon dioxide, 0.04 per cent. These
proportions are subject to a very slight variability. Air also always
contains some vapor of water.

2. Symbolically: Something unsubstantial, light, or volatile. "Charm
ache with air." Shak.
He was still all air and fire. Macaulay
. [Air and fire being the finer and quicker elements as opposed to
earth and water.]

3. A particular state of the atmosphere, as respects heat, cold,
moisture, etc., or as affecting the sensations; as, a smoky air, a
damp air, the morning air, etc.

4. Any aëriform body; a gas; as, oxygen was formerly called vital
air. [Obs.]

5. Air in motion; a light breeze; a gentle wind.
Let vernal airs through trembling osiers play. Pope.

6. Odoriferous or contaminated air.

7. That which surrounds and influences.
The keen, the wholesome air of poverty. Wordsworth.

8. Utterance abroad; publicity; vent.
You gave it air before me. Dryden.

9. Intelligence; information. [Obs.] Bacon.

10. (Mus.)
(a) A musical idea, or motive, rhythmically developed in consecutive
single tones, so as to form a symmetrical and balanced whole, which
may be sung by a single voice to the stanzas of a hymn or song, or
even to plain prose, or played upon an instrument; a melody; a tune;
an aria.
(b) In harmonized chorals, psalmody, part songs, etc., the part which
bears the tune or melody -- in modern harmony usually the upper part
-- is sometimes called the air.

11. The peculiar look, appearance, and bearing of a person; mien;
demeanor; as, the air of a youth; a heavy air; a lofty air. "His very
air." Shak.

12. Peculiar appearance; apparent character; semblance; manner;
style.
It was communicated with the air of a secret. Pope.

12. pl.

Defn: An artificial or affected manner; show of pride or vanity;
haughtiness; as, it is said of a person, he puts on airs. Thackeray.

14. (Paint.)
(a) The representation or reproduction of the effect of the
atmospheric medium through which every object in nature is viewed.
New Am. Cyc.
(b) Carriage; attitude; action; movement; as, the head of that
portrait has a good air. Fairholt.

15. (Man.)

Defn: The artificial motion or carriage of a horse.

Note: Air is much used adjectively or as the first part of a compound
term. In most cases it might be written indifferently, as a separate
limiting word, or as the first element of the compound term, with or
without the hyphen; as, air bladder, air-bladder, or airbladder; air
cell, air-cell, or aircell; air-pump, or airpump. Air balloon. See
Balloon.
 -- Air bath. (a) An apparatus for the application of air to the
body. (b) An arrangement for drying substances in air of any desired
temperature.
 -- Air castle. See Castle in the air, under Castle.
 -- Air compressor, a machine for compressing air to be used as a
motive power.
 -- Air crossing, a passage for air in a mine.
 -- Air cushion, an air-tight cushion which can be inflated; also, a
device for arresting motion without shock by confined air.
 -- Air fountain, a contrivance for producing a jet of water by the
force of compressed air.
 -- Air furnace, a furnace which depends on a natural draft and not
on blast.
 -- Air line, a straight line; a bee line. Hence Air-line, adj.; as,
air-line road.
 -- Air lock (Hydr. Engin.), an intermediate chamber between the
outer air and the compressed-air chamber of a pneumatic caisson.
Knight.
 -- Air port (Nav.), a scuttle or porthole in a ship to admit air.
 -- Air spring, a spring in which the elasticity of air is utilized.
 -- Air thermometer, a form of thermometer in which the contraction
and expansion of air is made to measure changes of temperature.
 -- Air threads, gossamer.
 -- Air trap, a contrivance for shutting off foul air or gas from
drains, sewers, etc.; a stench trap.
 -- Air trunk, a pipe or shaft for conducting foul or heated air from
a room.
 -- Air valve, a valve to regulate the admission or egress of air;
esp. a valve which opens inwardly in a steam boiler and allows air to
enter.
 -- Air way, a passage for a current of air; as the air way of an air
pump; an air way in a mine.
 -- In the air. (a) Prevalent without traceable origin or authority,
as rumors. (b) Not in a fixed or stable position; unsettled. (c)
(Mil.) Unsupported and liable to be turned or taken in flank; as, the
army had its wing in the air.
 -- To take air, to be divulged; to be made public.
 -- To take the air, to go abroad; to walk or ride out.

AIR
Air, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aired; p. pr. & vb. n. Airing.] Etym: [See
Air, n., and cf. A.]

1. To expose to the air for the purpose of cooling, refreshing, or
purifying; to ventilate; as, to air a room.
It were good wisdom . . . that the jail were aired. Bacon.
Were you but riding forth to air yourself. Shak.

2. To expose for the sake of public notice; to display
ostentatiously; as, to air one's opinion.
Airing a snowy hand and signet gem. Tennyson.

3. To expose to heat, for the purpose of expelling dampness, or of
warming; as, to air linen; to air liquors.

AIR BED
Air" bed`.

Defn: A sack or matters inflated with air, and used as a bed.

AIR BLADDER
Air" blad`der.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: An air sac, sometimes double or variously lobed, in the
visceral cavity of many fishes. It originates in the same way as the
lungs of air-breathing vertebrates, and in the adult may retain a
tubular connection with the pharynx or esophagus.

2. A sac or bladder full of air in an animal or plant; also an air
hole in a casting.

AIR BRAKE
Air" brake`. (Mach.)

Defn: A railway brake operated by condensed air. Knight.

AIR BRUSH
Air brush.

Defn: A kind of atomizer for applying liquid coloring matter in a
spray by compressed air.

AIR-BUILT
Air"-built`, a.

Defn: Erected in the air; having no solid foundation; chimerical; as,
an air-built castle.

AIR CELL
Air" cell`.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A cavity in the cellular tissue of plants, containing air only.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A receptacle of air in various parts of the system; as, a cell
or minute cavity in the walls of the air tubes of the lungs; the air
sac of birds; a dilatation of the air vessels in insects.

AIR CHAMBER
Air" cham`ber.

1. A chamber or cavity filled with air, in an animal or plant.

2. A cavity containing air to act as a spring for equalizing the flow
of a liquid in a pump or other hydraulic machine.

AIR COCK
Air" cock`.

Defn: A faucet to allow escape of air.

AIR COOLING
Air cooling.

Defn: In gasoline-engine motor vehicles, the cooling of the cylinder
by increasing its radiating surface by means of ribs or radiators,
and placing it so that it is exposed to a current of air. Cf. Water
cooling. -- Air"-cooled`, a.

AIRCRAFT
Air"craft`, n. sing. & pl.

Defn: Any device, as a balloon, aëroplane, etc., for floating in, or
flying through, the air.

AIR-DRAWN
Air"-drawn", a.

Defn: Drawn in air; imaginary.
This is the air-drawn dagger. Shak.

AIR DRILL
Air" drill`.

Defn: A drill driven by the elastic pressure of condensed air; a
pneumatic drill. Knight.

AIR ENGINE
Air" engine`.

Defn: An engine driven by heated or by compressed air. Knight.

AIRER
Air"er, n.

1. One who exposes to the air.

2. A frame on which clothes are aired or dried.

AIR GAP
Air gap. (Physics)

Defn: An air-filled gap in a magnetic or electric circuit; specif.,
in a dynamo or motor, the space between the field-magnet poles and
the armature; clearance.

AIR GAS
Air" gas`.

Defn: See under Gas.

AIR GUN
Air" gun`.

Defn: A kind of gun in which the elastic force of condensed air is
used to discharge the ball. The air is powerfully compressed into a
reservoir attached to the gun, by a condensing pump, and is
controlled by a valve actuated by the trigger.

AIR HOLE
Air" hole`.

1. A hole to admit or discharge air; specifically, a spot in the ice
not frozen over.

2. (Founding)

Defn: A fault in a casting, produced by a bubble of air; a blowhole.

AIRILY
Air"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In an airy manner; lightly; gaily; jauntily; fippantly.

AIRINESS
Air"i*ness, n.

1. The state or quality of being airy; openness or exposure to the
air; as, the airiness of a country seat.

2. Lightness of spirits; gayety; levity; as, the airiness of young
persons.

AIRING
Air"ing, n.

1. A walk or a ride in the open air; a short excursion for health's
sake.

2. An exposure to air, or to a fire, for warming, drying, etc.; as,
the airing of linen, or of a room.

AIR JACKET
Air" jack`et.

Defn: A jacket having air-tight cells, or cavities which can be
filled with air, to render persons buoyant in swimming.

AIRLESS
Air"less, a.

Defn: Not open to a free current of air; wanting fresh air, or
communication with the open air.

AIR LEVEL
Air" lev`el.

Defn: Spirit level. See Level.

AIRLIKE
Air"like`, a.

Defn: Resembling air.

AIR LINE
Air line.

Defn: A path through the air made easy for aërial navigation by
steady winds.

AIRLING
Air"ling, n.

Defn: A thoughtless, gay person. [Obs.] "Slight airlings." B. Jonson.

AIRMAN
Air"man, n.

Defn: A man who ascends or flies in an aircraft; a flying machine
pilot.

AIRMANSHIP
Air"man*ship, n.

Defn: Art, skill, or ability in the practice of aërial navigation.

AIROL
Air"ol, n. (Pharm.)

Defn: A grayish green antiseptic powder, consisting of a basic iodide
and gallate of bismuth, sometimes used in place of iodoform. [A
Trademark]

AIROMETER
Air*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Air + -meter.]

Defn: A hollow cylinder to contain air. It is closed above and open
below, and has its open end plunged into water.

AIR PIPE
Air" pipe`.

Defn: A pipe for the passage of air; esp. a ventilating pipe.

AIR PLANT
Air" plant`. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant deriving its sustenance from the air alone; an
aërophyte.

Note: The "Florida moss" (Tillandsia), many tropical orchids, and
most mosses and lichens are air plants. Those which are lodged upon
trees, but not parasitic on them, are epiphytes.

AIR POISE
Air" poise`. Etym: [See Poise.]

Defn: A

AIR PUMP
Air" pump`.

1. (Physics)

Defn: A kind of pump for exhausting air from a vessel or closed
space; also, a pump to condense air of force in into a closed space.

2. (Steam Engines)

Defn: A pump used to exhaust from a condenser the condensed steam,
the water used for condensing, and any commingled air.

AIR SAC
Air" sac`. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the spaces in different parts. of the bodies of birds,
which are filled with air and connected with the air passages of the
lungs; an air cell.

AIR SHAFT
Air" shaft`.

Defn: A passage, usually vertical, for admitting fresh air into a
mine or a tunnel.

AIRSICK
Air`sick`, a.

Defn: Affected with aërial sickness. -- Air"sick`ness, n.

AIR-SLACKED
Air"-slacked`, a.

Defn: Slacked, or pulverized, by exposure to the air; as, air-slacked
lime.

AIR STOVE
Air" stove`.

Defn: A stove for heating a current of air which is directed against
its surface by means of pipes, and then distributed through a
building.

AIR-TIGHT
Air"-tight`, a.

Defn: So tight as to be impermeable to air; as, an air-tight
cylinder.

AIR-TIGHT
Air"-tight`, n.

Defn: A stove the draft of which can be almost entirely shut off.
[Colloq. U. S.]

AIR VESSEL
Air" ves`sel.

Defn: A vessel, cell, duct, or tube containing or conducting air; as
the air vessels of insects, birds, plants, etc.; the air vessel of a
pump, engine, etc. For the latter, see Air chamber. The air vessels
of insects are called tracheæ, of plants spiral vessels.

AIRWARD; AIRWARDS
Air"ward, Air"wards, adv.

Defn: Toward the air; upward. [R.] Keats.

AIRWOMAN
Air"wom`an, n.

Defn: A woman who ascends or flies in an aircraft.

AIRY
Air"y, a.

1. Consisting of air; as, an airy substance; the airy parts of
bodies.

2. Relating or belonging to air; high in air; aërial; as, an airy
flight. "The airy region." Milton.

3. Open to a free current of air; exposed to the air; breezy; as, an
airy situation.

4. Resembling air; thin; unsubstantial; not material; airlike. "An
airy spirit." Shak.

5. Relating to the spirit or soul; delicate; graceful; as, airy
music.

6. Without reality; having no solid foundation; empty; trifling;
visionary. "Airy fame." Shak.
Empty sound, and airy notions. Roscommon.

7. Light of heart; vivacious; sprightly; flippant; superficial.
"Merry and airy." Jer. Taylor.

8. Having an affected manner; being in the habit of putting on airs;
affectedly grand. [Colloq.]

9. (Paint.)

Defn: Having the light and aërial tints true to nature. Elmes.

AISLE
Aisle, n. Etym: [OF. ele, F. aile, wing, wing of a building, L. ala,
contr. fr. axilla.] (Arch.)
(a) A lateral division of a building, separated from the middle part,
called the nave, by a row of columns or piers, which support the roof
or an upper wall containing windows, called the clearstory wall.
(b) Improperly used also for the have; -- as in the phrases, a church
with three aisles, the middle aisle.
(c) Also (perhaps from confusion with alley), a passage into which
the pews of a church open.

AISLED
Aisled, a.

Defn: Furnished with an aisle or aisles.

AISLESS
Ais"less, a.

Defn: Without an aisle.

AIT
Ait, n. Etym: [AS. ieg, ig, island. See Eyot.]

Defn: An islet, or little isle, in a river or lake; an eyot.
The ait where the osiers grew. R. Hodges (1649).
Among green aits and meadows. Dickens.

AIT
Ait, n.

Defn: Oat. [Scot.] Burns.

AITCH
Aitch, n.

Defn: The letter h or H.

AITCHBONE
Aitch"bone`, n. Etym: [For nachebone. For loss of n, cf. Adder. See
Natch.]

Defn: The bone of the rump; also, the cut of beef surrounding this
bone. [Spelt also edgebone.]

AITIOLOGY
Ai`ti*ol"o*gy, n.

Defn: See Ætiology.

AJAR
A*jar", adv. Etym: [OE. on char ajar, on the turn; AS. cerr, cyrr,
turn, akin to G. kehren to turn, and to D. akerre. See Char.]

Defn: Slightly turned or opened; as, the door was standing ajar.

AJAR
A*jar", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + jar.]

Defn: In a state of discord; out of harmony; as, he is ajar with the
world.

AJAVA
Aj"a*va, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Ajouan.

AJOG
A*jog", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + jog.]

Defn: On the jog.

AJOUAN; AJOWAN
Aj"ou*an  Aj"ow*an, n. [Written also ajwain.] [Prob. native name.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of Ammi Copticum, syn. Carum Ajowan, used both as a
medicine and as a condiment. An oil containing thymol is extracted
from it. Called also Javanee seed, Javanese seed, and ajava.

AJUTAGE
Aj"u*tage, n. Etym: [F. ajutage, for ajoutage, fr. ajouter to add,
LL. adjuxtare, fr. L. ad + juxta near to, nigh. Cf. Adjutage,
Adjustage, Adjust.]

Defn: A tube through which is water is discharged; an efflux tube;
as, the ajutage of a fountain.

AKE
Ake, n. & v.

Defn: See Ache.

AKENE
A*kene", n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Achene.

AKETON
Ak"e*ton, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Acton.

AKIMBO
A*kim"bo, a. Etym: [Etymology unknown. Cf. Kimbo.]

Defn: With a crook or bend; with the hand on the hip and elbow turned
outward. "With one arm akimbo." Irving.

AKIN
A*kin", a. Etym: [Pref. a- (for of) + kin.]

1. Of the same kin; related by blood; -- used of persons; as, the two
families are near akin.

2. Allied by nature; partaking of the same properties; of the same
kind. "A joy akin to rapture." Cowper.
The literary character of the work is akin to its moral character.
Jeffrey.

Note: This adjective is used only after the noun.

AKINESIA
Ak`i*ne"si*a, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Paralysis of the motor nerves; loss of movement. Foster.

AKINESIC
Ak`i*ne"sic, a. (med.)

Defn: Pertaining to akinesia.

AKNEE
A*knee", adv.

Defn: On the knee. [R.] Southey.

AKNOW
Ak*now".

Defn: Earlier form of Acknow. [Obs.] To be aknow, to acknowledge; to
confess. [Obs.]

AL
Al, a.

Defn: All. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AL-
Al-. A prefix. (a) Etym: [AS. eal.]

Defn: All; wholly; completely; as, almighty,almost. (b) Etym: [L.
ad.]

Defn: To; at; on; -- in OF. shortened to a-. See Ad-.
(c) The Arabic definite article answering to the English the; as,
Alkoran, the Koran or the Book; alchemy, the chemistry.

AL
Al. conj.

Defn: Although; if. [Obs.] See All, conj.

ALA
A"la, n.; pl. Alæ. Etym: [L., a wing.] (Biol.)

Defn: A winglike organ, or part.

ALABAMA PERIOD
Al`a*ba"ma pe"ri*od. (Geol.)

Defn: A period in the American eocene, the lowest in the tertiary age
except the lignitic.

ALABASTER
Al"a*bas"ter, n. Etym: [L. alabaster, Gr. Alabastron, the name of a
town in Egypt, near which it was common: cf. OF. alabastre, F.
albâtre.]

1. (Min.)
(a) A compact variety or sulphate of lime, or gypsum, of fine
texture, and usually white and translucent, but sometimes yellow,
red, or gray. It is carved into vases, mantel ornaments, etc.
(b) A hard, compact variety of carbonate of lime, somewhat
translucent, or of banded shades of color; stalagmite. The name is
used in this sense by Pliny. It is sometimes distinguished as
oriental alabaster.

2. A box or vessel for holding odoriferous ointments, etc.; -- so
called from the stone of which it was originally made. Fosbroke.

ALABASTRIAN
Al`a*bas"tri*an, a.

Defn: Alabastrine.

ALABASTRINE
Al`a*bas"trine, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, alabaster; as alabastrine limbs.

ALABASTRUM
Al`a*bas"trum, n.; pl. Alabastra. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A flower bud. Gray.

ALACK
A*lack", interj. Etym: [Prob. from ah! lack! OE. lak loss, failure,
misfortune. See Lack.]

Defn: An exclamation expressive of sorrow. [Archaic. or Poet.] Shak.

ALACKADAY
A*lack"a*day`, interj. Etym: [For alack the day. Cf. Lackaday.]

Defn: An exclamation expressing sorrow.

Note: Shakespeare has "alack the day" and "alack the heavy day."
Compare "woe worth the day."

ALACRIFY
A*lac"ri*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. alacer, alacris, lively + -fly.]

Defn: To rouse to action; to inspirit.

ALACRIOUS
A*lac"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. alacer, alacris.]

Defn: Brisk; joyously active; lively.
'T were well if we were a little more alacrious. Hammond.

ALACRIOUSLY
A*lac"ri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: With alacrity; briskly.

ALACRIOUSNESS
A*lac"ri*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Alacrity. [Obs.] Hammond.

ALACRITY
A*lac"ri*ty, n. Etym: [L. alacritas, fr. alacer lively, eager, prob.
akin to Gr. aljan zeal.]

Defn: A cheerful readiness, willingness, or promptitude; joyous
activity; briskness; sprightliness; as, the soldiers advanced with
alacrity to meet the enemy.
I have not that alacrity of spirit, Nor cheer of mind that I was wont
to have. Shak.

ALADINIST
A*lad"in*ist, n. Etym: [From Aladin, for Ala Eddin, i. e., height of
religion, a learned divine under Mohammed II. and Bajazet II.]

Defn: One of a sect of freethinkers among the Mohammedans.

ALALIA
A*la"li*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  priv. +  a talking; cf.  speechless.]
(Med.)

Defn: Inability to utter articulate sounds, due either to paralysis
of the larynx or to that form of aphasia, called motor, or ataxis,
aphasia, due to loss of control of the muscles of speech.

ALALONGA; ALILONGHI
Al`a*lon"ga, or Al`i*lon"ghi, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The tunny. See Albicore.

ALAMIRE
A`la*mi"re, n. Etym: [Compounded of a la mi re, names of notes in the
musical scale.]

Defn: The lowest note but one in Guido Aretino's scale of music.

ALAMODALITY
Al`a*mo*dal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being à la mode; conformity to the mode or
fashion; fashionableness. [R.] Southey.

ALAMODE
Al"a*mode`, adv. & a. Etym: [F. à la mode after the fashion.]

Defn: According to the fashion or prevailing mode. "Alamode beef
shops." Macaulay.

ALAMODE
Al"a*mode`, n.

Defn: A thin, black silk for hoods, scarfs, etc.; -- often called
simply mode. Buchanan.

ALAMORT
Al`a*mort", a. Etym: [F. à la mort to the death. Cf. Amort.]

Defn: To the death; mortally.

ALAN
A*lan", n. Etym: [OF. alan, alant; cf. Sp. alano.]

Defn: A wolfhound. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALAND
A*land", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + land.]

Defn: On land; to the land; ashore. "Cast aland." Sir P. Sidney.

ALANINE
Al"a*nine, n. Etym: [Aldehyde + the ending -ine. The -n- is a
euphonic insertion.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline base, C3H7NO2, derived from aldehyde
ammonia.

ALANTIN
A*lan"tin, n. Etym: [G. alant elecampane, the Inula helenium of
Linnæus.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Inulin.

ALAR
A"lar, a. Etym: [L. alarius, fr. ala wing: cf. F. alaire.]

1. Pertaining to, or having, wings.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Axillary; in the fork or axil. Gray.

ALARM
A*larm", n. Etym: [F. alarme, It. all' arme to arms ! fr. L. arma,
pl., arms. See Arms, and cf. Alarum.]

1. A summons to arms, as on the approach of an enemy.
Arming to answer in a night alarm. Shak.

2. Any sound or information intended to give notice of approaching
danger; a warming sound to arouse attention; a warning of danger.
Sound an alarm in my holy mountain. Joel ii. 1.

3. A sudden attack; disturbance; broil. [R.] "These home alarms."
Shak.
Thy palace fill with insults and alarms. Pope.

4. Sudden surprise with fear or terror excited by apprehension of
danger; in the military use, commonly, sudden apprehension of being
attacked by surprise.
Alarm and resentment spread throughout the camp. Macaulay.

5. A mechanical contrivance for awaking persons from sleep, or
rousing their attention; an alarum. Alarm bell, a bell that gives
notice on danger.
 -- Alarm clock or watch, a clock or watch which can be so set as to
ring or strike loudly at a prearranged hour, to wake from sleep, or
excite attention.
 -- Alarm gauge, a contrivance attached to a steam boiler for showing
when the pressure of steam is too high, or the water in the boiler
too low.
 -- Alarm post, a place to which troops are to repair in case of an
alarm.

Syn.
 -- Fright; affright; terror; trepidation; apprehension;
consternation; dismay; agitation; disquiet; disquietude.
 -- Alarm, Fright, Terror, Consternation. These words express
different degrees of fear at the approach of danger. Fright is fear
suddenly excited, producing confusion of the senses, and hence it is
unreflecting. Alarm is the hurried agitation of feeling which springs
from a sense of immediate and extreme exposure. Terror is agitating
and excessive fear, which usually benumbs the faculties.
Consternation is overwhelming fear, and carries a notion of
powerlessness and amazement. Alarm agitates the feelings; terror
disorders the understanding and affects the will; fright seizes on
and confuses the sense; consternation takes possession of the soul,
and subdues its faculties. See Apprehension.

ALARM
A*larm", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alarmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Alarming.]
Etym: [Alarm, n. Cf. F. alarmer.]

1. To call to arms for defense; to give notice to (any one) of
approaching danger; to rouse to vigilance and action; to put on the
alert.

2. To keep in excitement; to disturb.

3. To surprise with apprehension of danger; to fill with anxiety in
regard to threatening evil; to excite with sudden fear.
Alarmed by rumors of military preparation. Macaulay.

ALARMABLE
A*larm"a*ble, a.

Defn: Easily alarmed or disturbed.

ALARMED
A*larmed", a.

Defn: Aroused to vigilance; excited by fear of approaching danger;
agitated; disturbed; as, an alarmed neighborhood; an alarmed modesty.
The white pavilions rose and fell On the alarmed air. Longfellow.

ALARMEDLY
A*larm"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an alarmed manner.

ALARMING
A*larm"ing, a.

Defn: Exciting, or calculated to excite, alarm; causing apprehension
of danger; as, an alarming crisis or report.
 -- A*larm"ing*ly, adv.

ALARMIST
A*larm"ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alarmiste.]

Defn: One prone to sound or excite alarms, especially, needless
alarms. Macaulay.

ALARUM
A*lar"um, n. Etym: [OE. alarom, the same word as alarm, n.]

Defn: See Alarm. [Now Poetic]

Note: The variant form alarum is now commonly restricted to an alarm
signal or the mechanism to sound an alarm (as in an alarm clock.)

ALARY
Al"a*ry, a. Etym: [L. alarius, fr. ala wing.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to wings; also, wing-shaped.
The alary system of insects. Wollaston.

ALAS
A*las", interj. Etym: [OE. alas, allas, OF. alas, F. hélas; a interj.
(L. ah.) + las wretched (that I am), L. lassus weary, akin to E.
late. See Late.]

Defn: An exclamation expressive of sorrow, pity, or apprehension of
evil; -- in old writers, sometimes followed by day or white; alas the
day, like alack a day, or alas the white.

ALATE
A*late", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + late.]

Defn: Lately; of late. [Archaic]
There hath been alate such tales spread abroad. Latimer.

ALATE; ALATED
A"late, A"la*ted, a. Etym: [L. alatus, from ala wing.]

Defn: Winged; having wings, or side appendages like wings.

ALATERN; ALATERNUS
Al"a*tern, Al`a*ter"nus, n. Etym: [L. ala wing + terni three each.]
(Bot.)

Defn: An ornamental evergreen shrub (Rhamnus alaternus) belonging to
the buckthorns.

ALATION
A*la"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. alatus winged.]

Defn: The state of being winged.

ALAUNT
A*launt", n.

Defn: See Alan. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALB
Alb, n. Etym: [OE. albe, LL. alba, fr. L. albus white. Cf. Album and
Aube.]

Defn: A vestment of white linen, reaching to the feet, an enveloping
the person; -- in the Roman Catholic church, worn by those in holy
orders when officiating at mass. It was formerly worn, at least by
clerics, in daily life.

ALBACORE
Al"ba*core, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Albicore.

ALBAN
Al"ban, n. Etym: [L. albus white.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline resinous substance extracted from gutta-
percha by the action of alcohol or ether.

ALBANIAN
Al*ba"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Albania, a province of Turkey.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Albania.

ALBATA
Al*ba"ta, n. Etym: [L. albatus, p. p. of albare to make white, fr.
albus white.]

Defn: A white metallic alloy; which is made into spoons, forks,
teapots, etc. British plate or German silver. See German silver,
under German.

ALBATROSS
Al"ba*tross, n. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. Pg. alcatraz cormorant,
albatross, or Sp. alcatraz a pelican: cf. Pg. alcatruz, Sp. arcaduz,
a bucket, fr. Ar. al-qadus the bucket, fr. Gr. ka`dos, a water
vessel. So an Arabic term for pelican is water-carrier, as a bird
carrying water in its pouch.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A web-footed bird, of the genus Diomedea, of which there are
several species. They are the largest of sea birds, capable of long-
continued flight, and are often seen at great distances from the
land. They are found chiefly in the southern hemisphere.

ALBE; ALBEE
Al`be", Al`bee", conj. Etym: [See Albeit.]

Defn: Although; albeit. [Obs.]
Albe Clarissa were their chiefest founderess. Spenser.

ALBEDO
Al*be"do, n. Etym: [L., fr. albus white.]

Defn: Whiteness. Specifically: (Astron.) The ratio which the light
reflected from an unpolished surface bears to the total light falling
upon that surface.

ALBEIT
Al`be"it, conj. Etym: [OE. al be although it be, where al is our all.
Cf. Although.]

Defn: Even though; although; notwithstanding. Chaucer.
Albeit so masked, Madam, I love the truth. Tennyson.

ALBERTITE
Al"bert*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A bituminous mineral resembling asphaltum, found in the county
of A.

ALBERT WARE
Al"bert ware.

Defn: A soft ornamental terra-cotta pottery, sold in the biscuit
state for decorating.

ALBERTYPE
Al"ber*type, n. Etym: [From the name of the inventor, Albert, of
Munich.]

Defn: A picture printed from a kind of gelatine plate produced by
means of a photographic negative.

ALBESCENCE
Al*bes"cence, n.

Defn: The act of becoming white; whitishness.

ALBESCENT
Al*bes"cent, a. Etym: [L. albescens, p. pr. of albescere to grow
white, fr. albus white.]

Defn: Becoming white or whitish; moderately white.

ALBICANT
Al"bi*cant, a. Etym: [L. albicans, p. pr. of albicare, albicatum, to
be white, fr. albus white.]

Defn: Growing or becoming white.

ALBICATION
Al`bi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The process of becoming white, or developing white patches, or
streaks.

ALBICORE
Al"bi*core, n. Etym: [F. albicore (cf. Sp. albacora, Pg. albacor,
albacora, albecora), fr. Ar. bakr, bekr, a young camel, young cow,
heifer, and the article al: cf. Pg. bacoro a little pig.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name applied to several large fishes of the Mackerel family,
esp. Orcynus alalonga. One species (Orcynus thynnus), common in the
Mediterranean and Atlantic, is called in New England the horse
mackerel; the tunny. [Written also albacore.]

ALBIFICATION
Al`bi*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. albification: L. albus white +
ficare (only in comp.), facere, to make.]

Defn: The act or process of making white. [Obs.]

ALBIGENSES; ALBIGEOIS
Al`bi*gen"ses, Al`bi`geois", n. pl. Etym: [From Albi and Albigeois, a
town and its district in the south of France, in which the sect
abounded.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A sect of reformers opposed to the church of Rome in the 12th
centuries.

Note: The Albigenses were a branch of the Catharists (the pure). They
were exterminated by crusades and the Inquisition. They were distinct
from the Waldenses.

ALBIGENSIAN
Al`bi*gen"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Albigenses.

ALBINESS
Al*bi"ness, n.

Defn: A female albino. Holmes.

ALBINISM
Al"bi*nism, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being an albino: abinoism;
leucopathy.

ALBINISTIC
Al`bi*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Affected with albinism.

ALBINO
Al*bi"no, n.; pl. Albinos. Etym: [Sp. or Pg. albino, orig. whitish,
fr. albo white, L. albus.]

Defn: A person, whether negro, Indian, or white, in whom by some
defect of organization the substance which gives color to the skin,
hair, and eyes is deficient or in a morbid state. An albino has a
skin of a milky hue, with hair of the same color, and eyes with deep
red pupil and pink or blue iris. The term is also used of the lower
animals, as white mice, elephants, etc.; and of plants in a whitish
condition from the absence of chlorophyll. Amer. Cyc.

Note: The term was originally applied by the Portuguese to negroes
met with on the coast of Africa, who were mottled with white spots.

ALBINOISM
Al*bi"no*ism, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being an albino; albinism.

ALBINOTIC
Al`bi*not"ic, a.

Defn: Affected with albinism.

ALBION
Al"bi*on, n. Etym: [Prob. from the same root as Gael. alp a height or
hill. "It may have been bestowed on the land lying behind the white
cliffs visible from the coast of Gaul. Albany, the old name of
Scotland, means probably the "hilly land." I. Taylor.]

Defn: An ancient name of England, still retained in poetry.
In that nook-shotten isle of Albion. Shak.

ALBITE
Al"bite, n. Etym: [L. albus white.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of the feldspar family, triclinic in crystallization,
and in composition a silicate of alumina and soda. It is a common
constituent of granite and of various igneous rocks. See Feldspar.

ALBOLITH
Al"bo*lith, n. Etym: [L. albus white + -lith.]

Defn: A kind of plastic cement, or artificial stone, consisting
chiefly of magnesia and silica; -- called also albolite.

ALBORAK
Al"bo*rak, n. Etym: [Ar. al-buraq, fr. baraqa to flash, shine.]

Defn: The imaginary milk-white animal on which Mohammed was said to
have been carried up to heaven; a white mule.

ALB SUNDAY
Alb Sunday. (Eccl.)

Defn: The first Sunday after Easter Sunday, properly Albless Sunday,
because in the early church those who had been baptized on Easter eve
laid aside on the following Saturday their white albs which had been
put on after baptism.

ALBUGINEOUS
Al`bu*gin"e*ous, a. Etym: [See Albugo.]

Defn: Of the nature of, or resembling, the white of the eye, or of an
egg; albuminous; -- a term applied to textures, humors, etc., which
are perfectly white.

ALBUGO
Al*bu"go, n.; pl. Albugines. Etym: [L., whiteness, fr. albus white.]
(Med.)

Defn: Same as Leucoma.

ALBUM
Al"bum, n. Etym: [L., neut. of albus white: cf. F. album. Cf. Alb.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A white tablet on which anything was inscribed, as a list of
names, etc.

2. A register for visitors' names; a visitors' book.

3. A blank book, in which to insert autographs sketches, memorial
writing of friends, photographs, etc.

ALBUMEN
Al*bu"men, n. Etym: [L., fr. albus white.]

1. The white of an egg.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Nourishing matter stored up within the integuments of the seed
in many plants, but not incorporated in the embryo. It is the floury
part in corn, wheat, and like grains, the oily part in poppy seeds,
the fleshy part in the cocoanut, etc.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Albumin.

ALBUMENIZE
Al*bu"men*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Albumenized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Albumenizing.]

Defn: To cover or saturate with albumen; to coat or treat with an
albuminous solution; as, to albuminize paper.

ALBUM GRAECUM
Al"bum Græ"cum. Etym: [L., Greek white.]

Defn: Dung of dogs or hyenas, which becomes white by exposure to air.
It is used in dressing leather, and was formerly used in medicine.

ALBUMIN
Al*bu"min, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A thick, viscous nitrogenous substance, which is the chief and
characteristic constituent of white of eggs and of the serum of
blood, and is found in other animal substances, both fluid and solid,
also in many plants. It is soluble in water is coagulated by heat ad
by certain chemical reagents. Acid albumin, a modification of albumin
produced by the action of dilute acids. It is not coagulated by heat.
 -- Alkali albumin, albumin as modified by the action of alkaline
substances; -- called also albuminate.

ALBUMINATE
Al*bu"mi*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance produced by the action of an alkali upon albumin,
and resembling casein in its properties; also, a compound formed by
the union of albumin with another substance.

ALBUMINIFEROUS
Al*bu`mi*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. albumen + -ferous.]

Defn: Supplying albumen.

ALBUMINIMETER
Al*bu`mi*nim"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. albumen, albuminis + -meter: cf. F.
albuminimètre.]

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of albumen in a
liquid.

ALBUMININ
Al*bu"mi*nin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The substance of the cells which inclose the white of birds'
eggs.

ALBUMINIPAROUS
Al*bu`mi*nip"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. albumen + parere to bear, bring
forth.]

Defn: Producing albumin.

ALBUMINOID
Al*bu"mi*noid, a. Etym: [L. albumen + -oid.] (Chem.)

Defn: Resembling albumin.
 -- n.

Defn: One of a class of organic principles (called also proteids)
which form the main part of organized tissues. Brunton.

ALBUMINOIDAL
Al*bu`mi*noid"al, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of the nature of an albuminoid.

ALBUMINOSE
Al*bu"mi*nose`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A diffusible substance formed from albumin by the action of
natural or artificial gastric juice. See Peptone.

ALBUMINOSIS
Al*bu`mi*no"sis, n. [NL., fr. E. albumin.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition due to excessive increase of albuminous
elements in the blood.

ALBUMINOUS; ALBUMINOSE
Al*bu"mi*nous, Al*bu"mi*nose`, a. Etym: [Cf. F. albumineux.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, albumen; having the properties
of, or resembling, albumen or albumin.
 -- Al*bu"mi*nous*ness, n.

ALBUMINURIA
Al*bu`mi*nu"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. albumen + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition in which albumin is present in the urine.

ALBUMOSE
Al"bu*mose`, n. Etym: [From albumin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound or class of compounds formed from albumin by dilute
acids or by an acid solution of pepsin. Used also in combination, as
antialbumose, hemialbumose.

ALBURN
Al"burn, n. Etym: [L. alburnus, fr. L. albus white. Cf. Auburn.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The bleak, a small European fish having scales of a peculiarly
silvery color which are used in making artificial pearls.

ALBURNOUS
Al*bur"nous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to alburnum; of the alburnum; as, alburnous
substances.

ALBURNUM
Al*bur"num, n. Etym: [L., fr. albus white.] (Bot.)

Defn: The white and softer part of wood, between the inner bark and
the hard wood or duramen; sapwood.

ALBYN
Al"byn, n. Etym: [See Albion.]

Defn: Scotland; esp. the Highlands of Scotland. T. Cambell.

ALCADE
Al*cade", n.

Defn: Same as Alcaid.

ALCAHEST
Al"ca*hest, n.

Defn: Same as Alkahest.

ALCAIC
Al*ca"ic, a. Etym: [L. Alcaïcus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to Alcæus, a lyric poet of Mitylene, about 6000 b.
c.
 -- n. A kind of verse, so called from Alcæus. One variety consists
of five feet, a spondee or iambic, an iambic, a long syllable, and
two dactyls.

ALCAID; ALCAYDE
Al*caid", Al*cayde", n. Etym: [Sp. alcaide, fr. Ar. al-qa\'c6d
governor, fr. qada to lead, govern.]

1. A commander of a castle or fortress among the Spaniards,
Portuguese, and Moors.

2. The warden, or keeper of a jail.

ALCALDE
Al*cal"de, n. Etym: [Sp. alcalde, fr. Ar. al-qadi judge, fr. qada to
decide, judge. Hence, the cadi of the Turks. Cf. Cadi.]

Defn: A magistrate or judge in Spain and in Spanish America, etc.
Prescott.

Note: Sometimes confounded with Alcaid.

ALCALDIA
Al`cal*di"a, n. [Sp. Alcaldía.]

Defn: The jurisdiction or office of an alcalde; also, the building or
chamber in which he conducts the business of his office.

ALCALIMETER
Al`ca*lim"e*ter, n.

Defn: See Alkalimeter.

ALCANNA
Al*can"na, n. Etym: [Sp. alcana, alhe, fr. Ar. al-hinna. See Henna,
and cf. Alkanet.] (Bot.)

Defn: An oriental shrub (Lawsonia inermis) from which henna is
obtained.

ALCARRAZA
Al`car*ra"za, n.; pl. Alcarrazas. Etym: [Sp., from Ar. al-kurraz
earthen vessel.]

Defn: A vessel of porous earthenware, used for cooling liquids by
evaporation from the exterior surface.

ALCAYDE
Al*cayde", n.

Defn: Same as Alcaid.

ALCAZAR
Al*ca"zar, n. Etym: [ fr. Ar. al the + qacr (in pl.) a castle.]

Defn: A fortress; also, a royal palace. Prescott.

ALCEDO
Al*ce"do, n. Etym: [L., equiv. to Gr. Halcyon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of perching birds, including the European kingfisher
(Alcedo ispida). See Halcyon.

ALCHEMIC; ALCHEMICAL
Al*chem"ic, Al*chem"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alchimique.]

Defn: Of or relating to alchemy.

ALCHEMICALLY
Al*chem"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of alchemy.

ALCHEMIST
Al"che*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. alquemiste, F. alchimiste.]

Defn: One who practices alchemy.
You are alchemist; make gold. Shak.

ALCHEMISTIC; ALCHEMISTICAL
Al`che*mis"tic, Al`che*mis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to or practicing alchemy.
Metaphysical and alchemistical legislators. Burke.

ALCHEMISTRY
Al"che*mis*try, n.

Defn: Alchemy. [Obs.]

ALCHEMIZE
Al"che*mize, v. t.

Defn: To change by alchemy; to transmute. Lovelace.

ALCHEMY
Al"che*my, n. Etym: [OF. alkemie, arquemie, F. alchimie, Ar. al-
kimia, fr. late Gr. alquimia, It. alchimia. Gr. fundere to pour,
Goth. guitan, AS. geótan, to pour, and so to E. fuse. See Fuse, and
cf. Chemistry.]

1. An imaginary art which aimed to transmute the baser metals into
gold, to find the panacea, or universal remedy for diseases, etc. It
led the way to modern chemistry.

2. A mixed metal composed mainly of brass, formerly used for various
utensils; hence, a trumpet. [Obs.]
Put to their mouths the sounding alchemy. Milton.

3. Miraculous power of transmuting something common into something
precious.
Kissing with golden face the meadows green, Gilding pale streams with
heavenly alchemy. Shak.

ALCHYMIC; ALCHYMIST; ALCHYMISTIC; ALCHYMY
Al*chym"ic, a., Al"chy*mist, n., Al`chy*mis"tic, a., Al"chy*my, n.

Defn: See Alchemic, Alchemist, Alchemistic, Alchemy.

ALCO
Al"co, n.

Defn: A small South American dog, domesticated by the aborigines.

ALCOATE; ALCOHATE
Al"co*ate, Al"co*hate, n.

Defn: Shortened forms of Alcoholate.

ALCOHOL
Al"co*hol, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcool, formerly written alcohol, Sp.
alcohol alcohol, antimony, galena, OSp. alcofol; all fr. Ar. al-kohl
a powder of antimony or galena, to paint the eyebrows with. The name
was afterwards applied, on account of the fineness of this powder, to
highly rectified spirits, a signification unknown in Arabia. The Sp.
word has bot meanings. Cf. Alquifou.]

1. An impalpable powder. [Obs.]

2. The fluid essence or pure spirit obtained by distillation. [Obs.]
Boyle.

3. Pure spirit of wine; pure or highly rectified spirit (called also
ethyl alcohol); the spirituous or intoxicating element of fermented
or distilled liquors, or more loosely a liquid containing it in
considerable quantity. It is extracted by simple distillation from
various vegetable juices and infusions of a saccharine nature, which
have undergone vinous fermentation.

Note: As used in the U. S. "Pharmacopoeia, alcohol contains 91 per
cent by weight of ethyl alcohol and 9 per cent of water; and diluted
alcohol (proof spirit) contains 45.5 per cent by weight of ethyl
alcohol and 54.5 per cent of water.

4. (Organic Chem.)

Defn: A class of compounds analogous to vinic alcohol in
constitution. Chemically speaking, they are hydroxides of certain
organic radicals; as, the radical ethyl forms common or ethyl alcohol
(C2H5OH); methyl forms methyl alcohol (CH3.OH) or wood spirit; amyl
forms amyl alcohol (C5H11.OH) or fusel oil, etc.

ALCOHOLATE
Al"co*hol*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcolaie.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystallizable compound of a salt with alcohol, in which the
latter plays a part analogous to that of water of crystallization.
Graham.

ALCOHOLATURE
Al`co*hol"a*ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcoolature.] (Med.)

Defn: An alcoholic tincture prepared with fresh plants. New Eng.
Dict.

ALCOHOLIC
Al`co*hol"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alcolique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to alcohol, or partaking of its qualities;
derived from, or caused by, alcohol; containing alcohol; as,
alcoholic mixtures; alcoholic gastritis; alcoholic odor.

ALCOHOLIC
Al`co*hol"ic, n.

1. A person given to the use of alcoholic liquors.

2. pl.

Defn: Alcoholic liquors.

ALCOHOLISM
Al"co*hol*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcoolisme.] (Med.)

Defn: A diseased condition of the system, brought about by the
continued use of alcoholic liquors.

ALCOHOLIZATION
Al`co*hol`i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcoolisation.]

1. The act of reducing a substance to a fine or impalpable powder.
[Obs.] Johnson.

2. The act rectifying spirit.

3. Saturation with alcohol; putting the animal system under the
influence of alcoholic liquor.

ALCOHOLIZE
Al"co*hol*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alcoholized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alcoholizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. alcooliser.]

1. To reduce to a fine powder. [Obs.] Johnson.

2. To convert into alcohol; to rectify; also, to saturate with
alcohol.

ALCOHOLOMETER; ALCOHOLMETER
Al`co*hol*om"e*ter, Al`co*hol"me*ter, n. Etym: [Alcohol + -meter.]
(Chem.)

Defn: An instrument for determining the strength of spirits, with a
scale graduated so as to indicate the percentage of pure alcohol,
either by weight or volume. It is usually a form of hydrometer with a
special scale.

ALCOHOLOMETRIC; ALCOHOLOMETRICAL; ALCOHOLMETRICAL
Al`co*hol`o*met"ric, Al`co*hol`o*met"ric*al, Al`co*hol*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Relating to the alcoholometer or alcoholometry.
The alcoholometrical strength of spirituous liquors. Ure.

ALCOHOLOMETRY
Al`co*hol"om"e*try, n.

Defn: The process or method of ascertaining the proportion of pure
alcohol which spirituous liquors contain.

ALCOHOMETER; ALCOHOMETRIC
Al`co*hom"e*ter, n., Al`co*ho*met"ric, a.

Defn: Same as Alcoholometer, Alcoholometric.

ALCOOMETRY; ALCOOEMETRY
Al`co*öm"e*try, n.

Defn: See Alcoholometry.

Note: The chemists say alcomètre, alcoomètrie, doubtless by the
suppression of a syllable in order to avoid a disagreeable sequence
of sounds. (Cf. Idolatry.) Littré.

ALCORAN
Al"co*ran, n. Etym: [alcoran, fr. Ar. al-qoran, orig. the reading,
the book, fr. qaraa to read. Cf. Koran.]

Defn: The Mohammedan Scriptures; the Koran (now the usual form).
[Spelt also Alcoran.]

ALCORANIC
Al`co*ran"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Koran.

ALCORANIST
Al`co*ran"ist, n.

Defn: One who adheres to the letter of the Koran, rejecting all
traditions.

ALCORNOQUE
Al`cor*no"que, n. [Sp., cork tree.]

Defn: The bark of several trees, esp. of Bowdichia virgilioides of
Brazil, used as a remedy for consumption; of Byrsonima crassifolia,
used in tanning; of Alchornea latifolia, used medicinally; or of
Quercus ilex, the cork tree.

ALCOVE
Al"cove, n. Etym: [F. alcôve, Sp. or Pg. alcoba, from Ar. al-quobbah
arch, vault, tent.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A recessed portion of a room, or a small room opening into a
larger one; especially, a recess to contain a bed; a lateral recess
in a library.

2. A small ornamental building with seats, or an arched seat, in a
pleasure ground; a garden bower. Cowper.

3. Any natural recess analogous to an alcove or recess in an
apartment.
The youthful wanderers found a wild alcove. Falconer.

ALCYON
Al"cy*on, n.

Defn: See Halcyon.

ALCYONACEA
Al`cy*o*na"ce*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of soft-bodied Alcyonaria, of which Alcyonium is the
type. See Illust. under Alcyonaria.

ALCYONARIA
Al`cy*o*na"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the orders of Anthozoa. It includes the Alcyonacea,
Pennatulacea, and Gorgonacea.

ALCYONES
Al*cy"o*nes, n. pl. Etym: [L., pl. of Alcyon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The kingfishers.

ALCYONIC
Al`cy*on"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.

ALCYONIUM
Al`cy*o"ni*um, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fleshy Alcyonaria, its polyps somewhat resembling
flowers with eight fringed rays. The term was also formerly used for
certain species of sponges.

ALCYONOID
Al"cy*o*noid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.
 -- n.

Defn: A zoöphyte of the order Alcyonaria.

ALDAY
Al"day, adv.

Defn: Continually. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALDEBARAN
Al*deb"a*ran, n. Etym: [Ar. al-debaran, fr. dabar to follow; so
called because this star follows upon the Pleiades.] (Astron.)

Defn: A red star of the first magnitude, situated in the eye of
Taurus; the Bull's Eye. It is the bright star in the group called the
Hyades.
Now when Aldebaran was mounted high Above the shiny Cassiopeia's
chair. Spenser.

ALDEHYDE
Al"de*hyde, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. alcohol dehydrogenatum, alcohol
deprived of its hydrogen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, mobile, and very volatile liquid obtained from
alcohol by certain of oxidation.

Note: The aldehydes are intermediate between the alcohols and acids,
and differ from the alcohols in having two less hydrogen atoms in the
molecule, as common aldehyde (called also acetic aldehyde or ethyl
aldehyde), C2H4O; methyl aldehyde, CH2O. Aldehyde ammonia (Chem.), a
compound formed by the union of aldehyde with ammonia.

ALDEHYDIC
Al`de*hy"dic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to aldehyde; as, aldehydic acid. Miller.

ALDER
Al"der, n. Etym: [OE. aldir, aller, fr. AS. alr, aler, alor, akin to
D. els, G. erle, Icel. erlir, erli, Swed. al, Dan. elle, el, L.
alnus, and E. elm.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree, usually growing in moist land, and belonging to the
genus Alnus. The wood is used by turners, etc.; the bark by dyers and
tanners. In the U. S. the species of alder are usually shrubs or
small trees. Black alder. (a) A European shrub (Rhamnus frangula);
Alder buckthorn. (b) An American species of holly (Ilex
verticillata), bearing red berries.

ALDER; ALLER
Al"der, Al"ler, a. Etym: [From ealra, alra, gen. pl. of AS. eal. The
d is excrescent.]

Defn: Of all; -- used in composition; as, alderbest, best of all,
alderwisest, wisest of all. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALDER FLY
Al"der fly.

1. Any of numerous neuropterous insects of the genus Sialis or allied
genera. They have aquatic larvæ, which are used for bait.

2.  (Angling) An artificial fly with brown mottled wings, body of
peacock harl, and black legs.

ALDER-LIEFEST
Al`der-lief"est, a. Etym: [For allerliefest dearest of all. See
Lief.]

Defn: Most beloved. [Obs.] Shak.

ALDERMAN
Al"der*man, n.; pl. Aldplwmen. Etym: [AS. aldormon, ealdorman; ealdor
an elder + man. See Elder, n.]

1. A senior or superior; a person of rank or dignity. [Obs.]

Note: The title was applied, among the Anglo-Saxons, to princes,
dukes, earls, senators, and presiding magistrates; also to
archbishops and bishops, implying superior wisdom or authority. Thus
Ethelstan, duke of the East-Anglians, was called Alderman of all
England; and there were aldermen of cities, counties, and castles,
who had jurisdiction within their respective districts.

3. One of a board or body of municipal officers next in order to the
mayor and having a legislative function. They may, in some cases,
individually exercise some magisterial and administrative functions.

ALDERMANCY
Al"der*man*cy, n.

Defn: The office of an alderman.

ALDERMANIC
Al"der*man"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to, becoming to, or like, an alderman; characteristic
of an alderman.

ALDERMANITY
Al`der*man"i*ty, n.

1. Aldermen collectively; the body of aldermen.

2. The state of being an alderman. [Jocular]

ALDERMANLIKE
Al`der*man*like`, a.

Defn: Like or suited to an alderman.

ALDERMANLY
Al"der*man*ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, an alderman.

ALDERMANLY
Al"der*man*ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, an alderman. "An aldermanly
discretion." Swift.

ALDERMANRY
Al"der*man*ry, n.

1. The district or ward of an alderman.

2. The office or rank of an alderman. [R.] B. Jonson.

ALDERMANSHIP
Al"der*man*ship, n.

Defn: The condition, position, or office of an alderman. Fabyan.

ALDERN
Al"dern, a.

Defn: Made of alder.

ALDERNEY
Al"der*ney, n.

Defn: One of a breed of cattle raised in Alderney, one of the Channel
Islands. Alderneys are of a dun or tawny color and are often called
Jersey cattle. See Jersey, 3.

ALDINE
Al"dine, a. (Bibliog.)

Defn: An epithet applied to editions (chiefly of the classics) which
proceeded from the press of Aldus Manitius, and his family, of
Venice, for the most part in the 16th century and known by the sign
of the anchor and the dolphin. The term has also been applied to
certain elegant editions of English works.

ALDOL
Al"dol, n.  [Aldehyde + -ol as in alcohol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless liquid, C4H8O2, obtained by condensation of two
molecules of acetaldehyde: CH3CHO + CH3CHO = H3CH(OH)CH2CO; also, any
of various derivatives of this. The same reaction has been applied,
under the name of aldol condensation, to the production of many
compounds.

ALE
Ale, n. Etym: [AS. ealu, akin to Icel., Sw., and Dan. öl, Lith. alus
a kind of beer, OSlav. ol beer. Cf. Ir. ol drink, drinking.]

1. An intoxicating liquor made from an infusion of malt by
fermentation and the addition of a bitter, usually hops.

Note: The word ale, in England and the United States, usually
designates a heavier kind of fermented liquor, and the word beer a
lighter kind. The word beer is also in common use as the generic name
for all malt liquors.

2. A festival in English country places, so called from the liquor
drunk. "At wakes and ales." B. Jonson."On ember eves and holy ales."
Shak.

ALEAK
A*leak", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + leak.]

Defn: In a leaking condition.

ALEATORY
A"le*a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. aleatorius, fr. alea chance, die.] (Law)

Defn: Depending on some uncertain contingency; as, an aleatory
contract. Bouvier.

ALEBENCH
Ale"bench`, n.

Defn: A bench in or before an alehouse. Bunyan.

ALEBERRY
Ale"ber`ry, n. Etym: [OE. alebery, alebrey; ale + bre broth, fr. AS.
briw pottage.]

Defn: A beverage, formerly made by boiling ale with spice, sugar, and
sops of bread.
Their aleberries, caudles, possets. Beau. & Fl.

ALECITHAL
A*lec"i*thal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Applied to those ova which segment uniformly, and which have
little or no food yelk embedded in their protoplasm. Balfour.

ALECONNER
Ale"con`ner, n. Etym: [/Ale + con, OE. cunnen to test, AS. cunnian to
test. See Con.]

Defn: Orig., an officer appointed to look to the goodness of ale and
beer; also, one of the officers chosen by the liverymen of London to
inspect the measures used in public houses. But the office is a
sinecure. [Also called aletaster.] [Eng.]

ALECOST
Ale"cost`, n. Etym: [Ale + L. costus an aromatic plant: cf.
Costmary.] (Bot.)

Defn: The plant costmary, which was formerly much used for flavoring
ale.

ALECTORIDES
Al`ec*tor"i*des, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of birds including the common fowl and the pheasants.

ALECTOROMACHY
A*lec`to*rom"a*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Cockfighting.

ALECTOROMANCY
A*lec"to*ro*man`cy, n.

Defn: See Alectryomancy.

ALECTRYOMACHY
A*lec`try*oma*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Cockfighting.

ALECTRYOMANCY
A*lec"try*o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of a cock and grains of corn placed on the
letters of the alphabet, the letters being put together in the order
in which the grains were eaten. Amer. Cyc.

ALEE
A*lee", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + lee.] (Naut.)

Defn: On or toward the lee, or the side away from the wind; the
opposite of aweather. The helm of a ship is alee when pressed close
to the lee side. Hard alee, or Luff alee, an order to put the helm to
the lee side.

ALEGAR
Al"e*gar, n. Etym: [Ale + eager sour, F. aigre. Cf. Vinegar.]

Defn: Sour ale; vinegar made of ale. Cecil.

ALEGER
Al"e*ger, a. Etym: [F. allègre, earlier alègre, fr. L. alacer.]

Defn: Gay; cheerful; sprightly. [Obs.] Bacon.

ALEGGE
A*legge", v. t. Etym: [OE. aleggen, alegen, OF. alegier, F. alléger,
fr. LL. alleviare, for L. allevare to lighten; ad + levis light. Cf.
Alleviate, Allay, Allege.]

Defn: To allay or alleviate; to lighten. [Obs.]
That shall alegge this bitter blast. Spenser.

ALEHOOF
Ale"hoof`, n. Etym: [AS. h ground ivy; the first part is perh. a
corruption: cf. OE. heyhowe hedgehove,

ground ivy, "in old MSS. heyhowe, heyoue, haihoue, halehoue."
[Prior].

Defn: Ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma).

ALEHOUSE
Ale"house`, n.

Defn: A house where ale is retailed; hence, a tippling house.
Macaulay.

ALE-KNIGHT
Ale"-knight`, n.

Defn: A pot companion. [Obs.]

ALEM
Al"em, n. [Turk. 'alem, fr. Ar. 'alam.] (Mil.)

Defn: The imperial standard of the Turkish Empire.

ALEMANNIC
Al`e*man"nic, a.

Defn: Belonging to the Alemanni, a confederacy of warlike German
tribes.

ALEMANNIC
Al`e*man"nic, n.

Defn: The language of the Alemanni.
The Swabian dialect . . . is known as the Alemannic. Amer. Cyc.

ALEMBIC
A*lem"bic, n. Etym: [F. alambic (cf. Sp. alambique), Ar. al-anbiq,
fr. Gr. alembic proper. Cf. Limbec.]

Defn: An apparatus formerly used in distillation, usually made of
glass or metal. It has mostly given place to the retort and worm
still.
Used also metaphorically. The alembic of a great poet's imagination.
Brimley.

ALEMBROTH
A*lem"broth, n. Etym: [Origin uncertain.]

Defn: The salt of wisdom of the alchemists, a double salt composed of
the chlorides of ammonium and mercury. It was formerly used as a
stimulant. Brande & C.

ALENCON LACE
A`len`con" lace".

Defn: See under Lace.

ALENGTH
A*length", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + length.]

Defn: At full length; lenghtwise. Chaucer.

ALEPIDOTE
A*lep"i*dote, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Not having scales.
 -- n.

Defn: A fish without scales.

ALEPOLE
Ale"pole`, n.

Defn: A pole set up as the sign of an alehouse. [Obs.]

ALEPPO BOIL; ALEPPO BUTTON; ALEPPO EVIL
A*lep"po boil, button, or evil. (Med.)

Defn: A chronic skin affection terminating in an ulcer, most commonly
of the face. It is endemic along the Mediterranean, and is probably
due to a specific bacillus. Called also Aleppo ulcer, Biskara boil,
Delhi boil, Oriental sore, etc.

ALEPPO GRASS
Aleppo grass. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the cultivated forms of Andropogon Halepensis (syn.
Sorghum Halepense). See Andropogon, below.

ALERT
A*lert", a. Etym: [F. alerte, earlier à l'erte on the watch, fr. It.
all' erta on the watch, prop. (standing) on a height, where one can
look around; erta a declivity, steep, erto steep, p. p. of ergere,
erigere, to erect, raise, L. erigere. See Erect.]

1. Watchful; vigilant; active in vigilance.

2. Brisk; nimble; moving with celerity.
An alert young fellow. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Active; agile; lively; quick; prompt.

ALERT
A*lert", n. (Mil.)

Defn: An alarm from a real or threatened attack; a sudden attack;
also, a bugle sound to give warning. "We have had an alert." Farrow.
On the alert, on the lookout or watch against attack or danger; ready
to act.

ALERTLY
A*lert"ly, adv.

Defn: In an alert manner; nimbly.

ALERTNESS
A*lert"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being alert or on the alert; briskness;
nimbleness; activity.

ALE SILVER
Ale" sil`ver.

Defn: A duty payable to the lord mayor of London by the sellers of
ale within the city.

ALESTAKE
Ale"stake, n.

Defn: A stake or pole projecting from, or set up before, an alehouse,
as a sign; an alepole. At the end was commonly suspended a garland, a
bunch of leaves, or a "bush." [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALETASTER
Ale"tast`er, n.

Defn: See Aleconner. [Eng.]

ALETHIOLOGY
A*le`thi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of the nature of truth and evidence.
Sir W. Hamilton.

ALETHOSCOPE
A*leth"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An instrument for viewing pictures by means of a lens, so as to
present them in their natural proportions and relations.

ALEUROMANCY
A*leu"ro*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy: cf. F. aleuromancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of flour. Encyc. Brit.

ALEUROMETER
Al`eu*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for determining the expansive properties, or
quality, of gluten in flour. Knight.

ALEURONAT
A*leu"ro*nat, n. [See Aleurone.]

Defn: Flour made of aleurone, used as a substitute for ordinary flour
in preparing bread for diabetic persons.

ALEURONE
A*leu"rone, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An albuminoid substance which occurs in minute grains ("protein
granules") in maturing seeds and tubers; -- supposed to be a
modification of protoplasm.

ALEURONIC
Al`eu*ron"ic, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the nature of aleurone. D. C. Eaton.

ALEUTIAN; ALEUTIC
A*leu"tian, A*leu"tic, a. Etym: [Said to be from the Russ. aleut a
bold rock.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chain of islands between Alaska and
Kamtchatka; also, designating these islands.

ALEVIN
Al"e*vin, n. Etym: [F. alevin, OF. alever to rear, fr. L. ad + levare
to raise.]

Defn: Young fish; fry.

ALEW
A*lew", n.

Defn: Halloo. [Obs.] Spenser.

ALEWIFE
Ale"wife`, n.; pl. Alewives.

Defn: A woman who keeps an alehouse. Gay.

ALEWIFE
Ale"wife`, n.; pl. Alewives. Etym: [This word is properly aloof, the
Indian name of a fish. See Winthrop on the culture of maize in
America, "Phil Trans." No. 142, p. 1065, and Baddam's "Memoirs," vol.
ii. p. 131.]Etym: (Zoöl.)

Defn: A North American fish (Clupea vernalis) of the Herring family.
It is called also ellwife, ellwhop, branch herring. The name is
locally applied to other related species.

ALEXANDERS; ALISANDERS
Al`ex*an"ders, Al`i*san"ders, n. Etym: [OE. alisaundre, OF.
alissandere, fr. Alexander or Alexandria.] (Bot)

Defn: A name given to two species of the genus Smyrnium, formerly
cultivated and used as celery now is; -- called also horse parsely.

ALEXANDRIAN
Al`ex*an"dri*an, a.

1. Of or pertaining to Alexandria in Egypt; as, the Alexandrian
library.

2. Applied to a kind of heroic verse. See Alexandrine, n.

ALEXANDRINE
Al`ex*an"drine, a.

Defn: Belonging to Alexandria; Alexandrian. Bancroft.

ALEXANDRINE
Al`ex*an"drine, n. Etym: [F. alexandrin.]

Defn: A kind of verse consisting in English of twelve syllables.
The needless Alexandrine ends the song, That, like a wounded snake,
drags its slow length along. Pope.

ALEXIA
A*lex"i*a, n. [NL.; a- not + Gr.  speech, fr.  to speak, confused
with L. legere to read.] (Med.)
 (a) As used by some, inability to read aloud, due to brain disease.
 (b) More commonly, inability, due to brain disease, to understand
written or printed symbols although they can be seen, as in case of
word blindness.

ALEXIPHARMAC; ALEXIPHARMACAL
A*lex`i*phar"mac, A*lex`i*phar"ma*cal, a. & n. Etym: [See
Alexipharmic.]

Defn: Alexipharmic. [Obs.]

ALEXIPHARMIC
A*lex`i*phar"mic, n. (Med.)

Defn: An antidote against poison or infection; a counterpoison.

ALEXIPHARMIC; ALEXIPHARMICAL
A*lex`i*phar"mic, A*lex`i*phar"mic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. alexipharmaque.]
(Med.)

Defn: Expelling or counteracting poison; antidotal.

ALEXIPYRETIC
A*lex`i*py*ret"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Serving to drive off fever; antifebrile.
 -- n.

Defn: A febrifuge.

ALEXITERIC
A*lex`i*ter"ic, n. Etym: [Gr. alexitère, LL. alexiterium.] (Med.)

Defn: A preservative against contagious and infectious diseases, and
the effects of poison in general. Brande & C.

ALEXITERIC; ALEXITERICAL
A*lex`i*ter"ic, A*lex`i*ter"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. alexitère.] (med.)

Defn: Resisting poison; obviating the effects of venom; alexipharmic.

ALFA ; ALFA GRASS
Al"fa or Al"fa grass", n.

Defn: A plant (Macrochloa tenacissima) of North Africa; also, its
fiber, used in paper making.

ALFALFA
Al*fal"fa, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Bot.)

Defn: The lucern (Medicago sativa); -- so called in California,
Texas, etc.

ALFENIDE
Al"fe*nide, n. (Metal.)

Defn: An alloy of nickel and silver electroplated with silver.

ALFERES
Al*fe"res, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. Ar. al-fars knight.]

Defn: An ensign; a standard bearer. [Obs.] J. Fletcher.

ALFET
Al"fet, n. Etym: [LL. alfetum, fr. AS. alfæt a pot to boil in; al
burning + fæt vat.]

Defn: A caldron of boiling water into which an accused person plunged
his forearm as a test of innocence or guilt.

ALFILARIA
Al*fil`a*ri"a, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The pin grass (Erodium cicutarium), a weed in California.

ALFILERIA; ALFILERILLA
Al*fil`e*ri"a, Al*fil`e*ril"la, n. [Mex. Sp., fr. Sp. alfiler pin.]

Defn: Same as Alfilaria.

ALFIONE
Al`fi*o"ne, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An edible marine fish of California (Rhacochilus toxotes).

ALFORJA
Al*for"ja, n. [Also alfarga, alforge.] [Sp.]

Defn: A saddlebag. [Sp. Amer.]

ALFRESCO
Al*fres"co, adv. & a. Etym: [It. al fresco in or on the fresh.]

Defn: In the open-air. Smollett.

ALGA
Al"ga, n.; pl. Algæ. Etym: [L., seaweed.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of seaweed; pl. the class of cellular cryptogamic plants
which includes the black, red, and green seaweeds, as kelp, dulse,
sea lettuce, also marine and fresh water confervæ, etc.

ALGAL
Al"gal, a., (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, algæ.

ALGAROBA
Al`ga*ro"ba, n. Etym: [Sp. algarroba, fr. Ar. al-kharr. Cf. Carob.]
(Bot.)
(a) The Carob, a leguminous tree of the Mediterranean region; also,
its edible beans or pods, called St. John's bread.
(b) The Honey mesquite (Prosopis juliflora), a small tree found from
California to Buenos Ayres; also, its sweet, pulpy pods. A valuable
gum, resembling gum arabic, is collected from the tree in Texas and
Mexico.

ALGAROT; ALGAROTH
Al"ga*rot, Al"ga*roth, n. Etym: [F. algaroth, fr. the name of the
inventor, Algarotti.] (Med.)

Defn: A term used for the Powder of Algaroth, a white powder which is
a compound of trichloride and trioxide of antimony. It was formerly
used in medicine as an emetic, purgative, and diaphoretic.

ALGAROVILLA
Al`ga*ro*vil"la, n.

Defn: The agglutinated seeds and husks of the legumes of a South
American tree (Inga Marthæ). It is valuable for tanning leather, and
as a dye.

ALGATE; ALGATES
Al"gate, Al"gates, adv. Etym: [All + gate way. The s is an adverbial
ending. See Gate.]

1. Always; wholly; everywhere. [Obs.]
Ulna now he algates must forego. Spenser.

Note: Still used in the north of England in the sense of
"everywhere."

2. By any or means; at all events. [Obs.] Fairfax.

3. Notwithstanding; yet. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALGAZEL
Al"ga*zel`, n. Etym: [Ar. al the + ghazal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The true gazelle.

ALGEBRA
Al"ge*bra, n. Etym: [LL. algebra, fr. Ar. al-jebr reduction of parts
to a whole, or fractions to whole numbers, fr. jabara to bind
together, consolidate; al-jebr w'almuqabalah reduction and comparison
(by equations): cf. F. algèbre, It. & Sp. algebra.]

1. (Math.)

Defn: That branch of mathematics which treats of the relations and
properties of quantity by means of letters and other symbols. It is
applicable to those relations that are true of every kind of
magnitude.

2. A treatise on this science.

ALGEBRAIC; ALGEBRAICAL
Al`ge*bra"ic, Al`ge*bra"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to algebra; containing an operation of
algebra, or deduced from such operation; as, algebraic characters;
algebraical writings. Algebraic curve, a curve such that the equation
which expresses the relation between the coördinates of its points
involves only the ordinary operations of algebra; -- opposed to a
transcendental curve.

ALGEBRAICALLY
Al`ge*bra"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By algebraic process.

ALGEBRAIST
Al"ge*bra`ist, n.

Defn: One versed in algebra.

ALGEBRAIZE
Al"ge*bra*ize, v. t.

Defn: To perform by algebra; to reduce to algebraic form.

ALGERIAN
Al*ge"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Algeria.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Algeria.

ALGERINE
Al`ge*rine", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Algiers or Algeria.

ALGERINE
Al`ge*rine", n.

Defn: A native or one of the people of Algiers or Algeria. Also, a
pirate.

ALGID
Al"gid, a. Etym: [L. algidus cold, fr. algere to be cold: cf. F.
algide.]

Defn: Cold; chilly. Bailey. Algid cholera (Med.), Asiatic cholera.

ALGIDITY
Al*gid"i*ty, n.

Defn: Chilliness; coldness; especially (Med.),

Defn: coldness and collapse.

ALGIDNESS
Al"gid*ness, n.

Defn: Algidity. [Obs.]

ALGIFIC
Al*gif"ic, a. Etym: [L. algificus, fr. algus cold + facere to make.]

Defn: Producing cold.

ALGIN
Al"gin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance resembling gelatin, obtained from
certain algæ.

ALGOID
Al"goid, a. Etym: [L. alga + -oid.]

Defn: Of the nature of, or resembling, an alga.

ALGOL
Al"gol, n. Etym: [Ar. al-gh destruction, calamity, fr. ghala to take
suddenly, destroy.] (Astron.)

Defn: A fixed star, in Medusa's head, in the constellation Perseus,
remarkable for its periodic variation in brightness.

ALGOLOGICAL
Al`go*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to algology; as, algological specimens.

ALGOLOGIST
Al*gol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One learned about algæ; a student of algology.

ALGOLOGY
Al*gol"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. alga seaweed + -logy.] (Bot.)

Defn: The study or science of algæ or seaweeds.

ALGOMETER
Al*gom"e*ter, n. [Gr.  pain + -meter.] (Psychol.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring sensations of pain due to pressure.
It has a piston rod with a blunted tip which is pressed against the
skin. -- Al*gom"e*try (#), n. -- Al`go*met"ric (#), *met"ric*al (#),
a. --Al`go*met"ric*al*ly, adv.

ALGONKIAN
Al*gon"ki*an, a.

1. Var. of Algonquian.

2.  (Geol.) Pertaining to or designating a period or era recognized
by the United States Geological Survey and some other authorities,
between the Archæan and the Paleozoic, from both of which it is
generally separated in the record by unconformities. Algonkian rocks
are both sedimentary and igneous. Although fossils are rare, life
certainly existed in this period. -- n.

Defn: The Algonkian period or era, or system or group of systems.

ALGONQUIAN
Al*gon"qui*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to or designating the most extensive of the
linguistic families of North American Indians, their territory
formerly including practically all of Canada east of the 115th
meridian and south of Hudson's Bay and the part of the United States
east of the Mississippi and north of Tennessee and Virginia, with the
exception of the territory occupied by the northern Iroquoian tribes.
There are nearly 100,000 Indians of the Algonquian tribes, of which
the strongest are the Ojibwas (Chippewas), Ottawas, Crees,
Algonquins, Micmacs, and Blackfeet. -- n.

Defn: An Algonquian Indian.

ALGONQUIN; ALGONKIN
Al*gon"quin, Al*gon"kin, n.

Defn: One of a widely spread family of Indians, including many
distinct tribes, which formerly occupied most of the northern and
eastern part of North America. The name was originally applied to a
group of Indian tribes north of the River St. Lawrence.

ALGOR
Al"gor, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: Cold; chilliness.

ALGORISM; ALGORITHM
Al"go*rism, Al"go*rithm, n. Etym: [OE. algorism, algrim, augrim, OF.
algorisme, F. algorithme (cf. Sp. algoritmo, OSp. alguarismo, LL.
algorismus), fr. the Ar. al-Khowarezmi of Khowarezm, the modern
Khiwa, surname of Abu Ja'far Mohammed ben Musa, author of a work on
arithmetic early in the 9th century, which was translated into Latin,
such books bearing the name algorismus. The spelling with th is due
to a supposed connection with Gr.

1. The art of calculating by nine figures and zero.

2. The art of calculating with any species of notation; as, the
algorithms of fractions, proportions, surds, etc.

ALGOUS
Al"gous, a. Etym: [L. algosus, fr. alga seaweed.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the algæ, or seaweeds; abounding with, or
like, seaweed.

ALGUAZIL
Al`gua*zil", n. Etym: [Sp. alguacil, fr. Ar. alwazir the vizier. Cf.
Vizier.]

Defn: An inferior officer of justice in Spain; a warrant officer; a
constable. Prescott.

ALGUM
Al"gum, n.

Defn: Same as Almug (and etymologically preferable). 2 Chron. ii. 8.

ALHAMBRA
Al*ham"bra, n. Etym: [Ultimately fr. Ar. al the + hamra red; i. e.,
the red (sc. house).]

Defn: The palace of the Moorish kings at Granada.

ALHAMBRAIC; ALHAMBRESQUE
Al`ham*bra"ic, Al`ham*bresque", a.

Defn: Made or decorated after the fanciful style of the ornamentation
in the Alhambra, which affords an unusually fine exhibition of
Saracenic or Arabesque architecture.

ALHENNA
Al*hen"na, n.

Defn: See Henna.

ALIAS
A"li*as, adv. Etym: [L., fr. alius. See Else.] (Law)
(a) Otherwise; otherwise called; -- a term used in legal proceedings
to connect the different names of any one who has gone by two or
more, and whose true name is for any cause doubtful; as, Smith, alias
Simpson.
(b) At another time.

ALIAS
A"li*as, n.; pl. Aliases. Etym: [L., otherwise, at another
time.]Etym: (Law)
(a) A second or further writ which is issued after a first writ has
expired without effect.
(b) Another name; an assumed name.

ALIBI
Al"i*bi, n. Etym: [L., elsewhere, at another place. See Alias.] (Law)

Defn: The plea or mode of defense under which a person on trial for a
crime proves or attempts to prove that he was in another place when
the alleged act was committed; as, to set up an alibi; to prove an
alibi.

ALIBILITY
Al`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Quality of being alible.

ALIBLE
Al"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. alibilis, fr. alere to nourish.]

Defn: Nutritive; nourishing.

ALICANT
Al"i*cant, n.

Defn: A kind of wine, formerly much esteemed; -- said to have been
made near Alicant, in Spain. J. Fletcher.

ALIDADE
Al"i*dade, n. Etym: [LL. alidada, alhidada, fr. Ar. al-'idada a sort
of rule: cf. F. alidade.]

Defn: The portion of a graduated instrument, as a quadrant or
astrolabe, carrying the sights or telescope, and showing the degrees
cut off on the arc of the instrument Whewell.

ALIEN
Al"ien, a. Etym: [OF. alien, L. alienus, fr. alius another; properly,
therefore, belonging to another. See Else.]

1. Not belonging to the same country, land, or government, or to the
citizens or subjects thereof; foreign; as, alien subjects, enemies,
property, shores.

2. Wholly different in nature; foreign; adverse; inconsistent (with);
incongruous; -- followed by from or sometimes by to; as, principles
alien from our religion.
An alien sound of melancholy. Wordsworth.
Alien enemy (Law), one who owes allegiance to a government at war
with ours. Abbott.

ALIEN
Al"ien, n.

1. A foreigner; one owing allegiance, or belonging, to another
country; a foreign-born resident of a country in which he does not
posses the privileges of a citizen. Hence, a stranger. See Alienage.

2. One excluded from certain privileges; one alienated or estranged;
as, aliens from God's mercies.
Aliens from the common wealth of Israel. Ephes. ii. 12.

ALIEN
Al"ien, v. t. Etym: [F. aliéner, L. alienare.]

Defn: To alienate; to estrange; to transfer, as property or
ownership. [R.] "It the son alien lands." Sir M. Hale.
The prince was totally aliened from all thoughts of . . . the
marriage. Clarendon.

ALIENABILITY
Al`ien*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capability of being alienated. "The alienability of the
domain." Burke.

ALIENABLE
Al"ien*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aliénable.]

Defn: Capable of being alienated, sold, or transferred to another;
as, land is alienable according to the laws of the state.

ALIENAGE
Al"ien*age, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. aliénage.]

1. The state or legal condition of being an alien.

Note: The disabilities of alienage are removable by naturalization or
by special license from the State of residence, and in some of the
United States by declaration of intention of naturalization. Kent.
Wharton.
Estates forfeitable on account of alienage. Story.

2. The state of being alienated or transferred to another. Brougham.

ALIENATE
Al"ien*ate, a. Etym: [L. alienatus, p. p. of alienare, fr. alienus.
See Alien, and cf. Aliene.]

Defn: Estranged; withdrawn in affection; foreign; -- with from.
O alienate from God. Milton.

ALIENATE
Al"ien*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alienated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alienating.]

1. To convey or transfer to another, as title, property, or right; to
part voluntarily with ownership of.

2. To withdraw, as the affections; to make indifferent of averse,
where love or friendship before subsisted; to estrange; to wean; --
with from.
The errors which . . . alienated a loyal gentry and priesthood from
the House of Stuart. Macaulay.
The recollection of his former life is a dream that only the more
alienates him from the realities of the present. I. Taylor.

ALIENATE
Al"ien*ate, n.

Defn: A stranger; an alien. [Obs.]

ALIENATION
Al`ien*a"tion, n. Etym: [F. aliénation, L. alienatio, fr. alienare,
fr. alienare. See Alienate.]

1. The act of alienating, or the state of being alienated.

2. (Law)

Defn: A transfer of title, or a legal conveyance of property to
another.

3. A withdrawing or estrangement, as of the affections.
The alienation of his heart from the king. Bacon.

4. Mental alienation; derangement of the mental faculties; insanity;
as, alienation of mind.

Syn.
 -- Insanity; lunacy; madness; derangement; aberration; mania;
delirium; frenzy; dementia; monomania. See Insanity.

ALIENATOR
Al"ien*a"tor, n.

Defn: One who alienates.

ALIENE
Al*iene, v. t.

Defn: To alien or alienate; to transfer, as title or property; as, to
aliene an estate.

ALIENEE
Al"ien*ee", n. (Law)

Defn: One to whom the title of property is transferred; -- opposed to
alienor.
It the alienee enters and keeps possession. Blackstone.

ALIENISM
Al"ien*ism, n.

1. The status or legal condition of an alien; alienage.
The law was very gentle in the construction of the disability of
alienism. Kent.

2. The study or treatment of diseases of the mind.

ALIENIST
Al"ien*ist, n. Etym: [F. aliéniste.]

Defn: One who treats diseases of the mind. Ed. Rev.

ALIENOR
Al`ien*or", n. Etym: [OF. aliéneur.]

Defn: One who alienates or transfers property to another. Blackstone.

ALIETHMOID; ALIETHMOIDAL
Al`i*eth"moid, Al`i*eth*moid"al, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E.
ethomoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to expansions of the ethmoid bone or

ALIFE
A*life", adv. Etym: [Cf. lief dear.]

Defn: On my life; dearly. [Obs.] "I love that sport alife." Beau. &
Fl.

ALIFEROUS
A*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + -ferous.]

Defn: Having wings, winged; aligerous. [R.]

ALIFORM
Al"i*form, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + -form.]

Defn: Wing-shaped; winglike.

ALIGEROUS
A*lig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. aliger; ala wing + gerere to carry.]

Defn: Having wings; winged. [R.]

ALIGHT
A*light", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Alighted sometimes Alit; p. pr. & vb.
n. Alighting.] Etym: [OE. alihten, fr. AS. alihtan; pref. a- (cf.
Goth. us-, G. er-, orig. meaning out) + lihtan, to alight, orig. to
render light, to remove a burden from, fr. liht, leoht, light. See
Light, v. i.]

1. To spring down, get down, or descend, as from on horseback or from
a carriage; to dismount.

2. To descend and settle, lodge, rest, or stop; as, a flying bird
alights on a tree; snow alights on a roof.

3. To come or chance (upon). [R.]

ALIGHT
A*light", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + light.]

Defn: Lighted; lighted up; in a flame. "The lamps were alight."
Dickens.

ALIGN
A*lign", v. t. Etym: [F. aligner; à (L. ad) + ligne (L. linea) line.
See Line, and cf. Allineate.]

Defn: To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bring
into line; to aline.

ALIGN
A*lign", v. t.

Defn: To form in line; to fall into line.

ALIGNMENT
A*lign"ment, n. Etym: [F. alignement.]

1. The act of adjusting to a line; arrangement in a line or lines;
the state of being so adjusted; a formation in a straight line; also,
the line of adjustment; esp., an imaginary line to regulate the
formation of troops or of a squadron.

2. (Engin.)

Defn: The ground-plan of a railway or other road, in distinction from
the grades or profile.

ALIKE
A*like", a. Etym: [AS. onlic, gelic; pref. a + like.]

Defn: Having resemblance or similitude; similar; without difference.
[Now used only predicatively.]
The darkness and the light are both alike to thee. Ps. cxxxix. 12.

ALIKE
A*like", adv. Etym: [AS. gelice, onlice.]

Defn: In the same manner, form, or degree; in common; equally; as, we
are all alike concerne.

ALIKE-MINDED
A*like"-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Like-minded. [Obs.]

ALIMENT
Al"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. alimentum, fr. alere to nourish; akin to
Goth. alan to grow, Icel. ala to nourish: cf. F. aliment. See Old.]

1. That which nourishes; food; nutriment; anything which feeds or
adds to a substance in natural growth. Hence: The necessaries of life
generally: sustenance; means of support.
Aliments of theiBacon.

2. An allowance for maintenance. [Scot.]

ALIMENT
Al"i*ment, v. t.

1. To nourish; to support.

2. To provide for the maintenance of. [Scot.]

ALIMENTAL
Al`i*men"tal, a.

Defn: Supplying food; having the quality of nourishing; furnishing
the materials for natural growth; as, alimental sap.

ALIMENTALLY
A`li*men"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to serve for nourishment or food; nourishing quality. Sir
T. Browne.

ALIMENTARINESS
Al`i*men"ta*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being alimentary; nourishing quality. [R.]

ALIMENTARY
Al`i*men"ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. alimentarius, fr. alimentum: cf. F.
alimentaire.]

Defn: Pertaining to aliment or food, or to the function of nutrition;
nutritious; alimental; as, alimentary substances. Alimentary canal,
the entire channel, extending from the mouth to the anus, by which
aliments are conveyed through the body, and the useless parts
ejected.

ALIMENTATION
Al`i*men*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alimentation, LL. alimentatio.]

1. The act or process of affording nutriment; the function of the
alimentary canal.

2. State or mode of being nourished. Bacon.

ALIMENTIVENESS
Al`i*men"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The instinct or faculty of appetite for food. [Chiefly in
Phrenol.]

ALIMONIOUS
Al`i*mo"ni*ous, a.

Defn: Affording food; nourishing. [R.] "Alimonious humors." Harvey.

ALIMONY
Al"i*mo*ny, n. Etym: [L. alimonia, alimonium, nourishment,
sustenance, fr. alere to nourish.]

1. Maintenance; means of living.

2. (Law)

Defn: An allowance made to a wife out of her husband's estate or
income for her support, upon her divorce or legal separation from
him, or during a suit for the same. Wharton. Burrill.

ALINASAL
Al`i*na"sal, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E. nasal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to expansions of the nasal bone or cartilage.

ALINE
A*line", v. t.

Defn: To range or place in a line; to bring into line; to align.
Evelyn.

ALINEATION
A*lin`e*a"tion, n.

Defn: See Allineation.

ALINEMENT
A*line"ment, n.

Defn: Same as Alignment.

Note: [The Eng. form alinement is preferable to alignment, a bad
spelling of the French]. New Eng. Dict. (Murray).

ALINER
A*lin"er, n.

Defn: One who adjusts things to a line or lines or brings them into
line. Evelyn.

ALIOTH
Al"i*oth, n. Etym: [Ar. alyat the tail of a fat sheep.] (Astron.)

Defn: A star in the tail of the Great Bear, the one next the bowl in
the Dipper.

ALIPED
Al"i*ped, a. Etym: [L. alipes; ala wing + pes, pedis, foot: cf. F.
alipède.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Wing-footed, as the bat.
 -- n.

Defn: An animal whose toes are connected by a membrane, serving for a
wing, as the bat.

ALIPHATIC
Al`i*phat"ic, a. [Gr. , , oil, fat.] (Org. Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, fat; fatty; -- applied to
compounds having an openc-hain structure. The aliphatic compounds
thus include not only the fatty acids and other derivatives of the
paraffin hydrocarbons, but also unsaturated compounds, as the
ethylene and acetylene series.

ALIQUANT
Al"i*quant, a. Etym: [L. aliquantus some, moderate; alius other +
quantus how great: cf. F. aliquante.] (Math.)

Defn: An aliquant part of a number or quantity is one which does not
divide it without leaving a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquant part of
16. Opposed to aliquot.

ALIQUOT
Al"i*quot, a. Etym: [L. aliquot some, several; alius other + quot how
many: cf. F. aliquote.] (Math.)

Defn: An aliquot part of a number or quantity is one which will
divide it without a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquot part of 15.
Opposed to aliquant.

ALISEPTAL
Al`i*sep"tal, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E. septal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Relating to expansions of the nasal septum.

ALISH
Al"ish, a.

Defn: Like ale; as, an alish taste.

ALISPHENOID
Al`i*sphe"noid, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The alisphenoid bone.

ALISPHENOID; ALISPHENOIDAL
Al`i*sphe"noid, Al`i*sphe*noid"al, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E.
sphenoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to or forming the wing of the sphenoid; relating to
a bone in the base of the skull, which in the adult is often
consolidated with the sphenoid; as, alisphenoid bone; alisphenoid
canal.

ALITRUNK
Al"i*trunk, n. Etym: [L. ala wing + truncus trunk.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The segment of the body of an insect to which the wings are
attached; the thorax. Kirby.

ALITURGICAL
Al`i*tur"gic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + liturgical.] (Eccl.)

Defn: Applied to those days when the holy sacrifice is not offered.
Shipley.

ALIUNDE
A`li*un"de, adv. & a. Etym: [L.] (Law)

Defn: From another source; from elsewhere; as, a case proved aliunde;
evidence aliunde.

ALIVE
A*live", a. Etym: [OE. on live, AS. on life in life; life being dat.
of lif life. See Life, and cf. Live, a.]

1. Having life, in opposition to dead; living; being in a state in
which the organs perform their functions; as, an animal or a plant
which is alive.

2. In a state of action; in force or operation; unextinguished;
unexpired; existent; as, to keep the fire alive; to keep the
affections alive.

3. Exhibiting the activity and motion of many living beings;
swarming; thronged.
The Boyne, for a quarter of a mile, was alive with muskets and green
boughs. Macaulay.

4. Sprightly; lively; brisk. Richardson.

5. Having susceptibility; easily impressed; having lively feelings,
as opposed to apathy; sensitive.
Tremblingly alive to nature's laws. Falconer.

6. Of all living (by way of emphasis).
Northumberland was the proudest man alive. Clarendon.

Note: Used colloquially as an intensive; as, man alive!

Note: Alive always follows the noun which it qualifies.

ALIZARI
A`li*za"ri, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. Ar. 'a juice extracted from a plant,
fr. 'a to press.] (Com.)

Defn: The madder of the Levant. Brande & C.

ALIZARIN
A*liz"a*rin, n. Etym: [F. alizarine, fr. alizari.] (Chem.)

Defn: A coloring principle, C14H6O2(OH)2, found in madder, and now
produced artificially from anthracene. It produces the Turkish reds.

ALKAHEST
Al"ka*hest, n. Etym: [LL. alchahest, F. alcahest, a word that has an
Arabic appearance, but was probably arbitrarily formed by
Paracelsus.]

Defn: The fabled "universal solvent" of the alchemists; a menstruum
capable of dissolving all bodies.
 -- Al`ka*hes"tic, a.

ALKALAMIDE
Al`kal*am"ide, n. Etym: [Alkali + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of compounds that may be regarded as ammonia in
which a part of the hydrogen has been replaced by basic, and another
part by acid, atoms or radicals.

ALKALESCENCE; ALKALESCENCY
Al`ka*les`cence, Al`ka*les"cen*cy, n.

Defn: A tendency to become alkaline; or the state of a substance in
which alkaline properties begin to be developed, or to predominant.
Ure.

ALKALESCENT
Al`ka*les"cent, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalescent.]

Defn: Tending to the properties of an alkali; slightly alkaline.

ALKALI
Al"ka*li, n.; pl. Alkalis or Alkalies. Etym: [F. alcali, ultimately
fr. Ar. alqali ashes of the plant saltwort, fr. qalay to roast in a
pan, fry.]

1. Soda ash; caustic soda, caustic potash, etc.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of caustic bases, such as soda, potash, ammoma,
and lithia, whose distinguishing peculiarities are solubility in
alcohol and water, uniting with oils and fats to form soap,
neutralizing and forming salts with acids, turning to brown several
vegetable yellows, and changing reddened litmus to blue. Fixed
alkalies, potash and soda.
 -- Vegetable alkalies. Same as Alkaloids.
 -- Volatile alkali, ammonia, so called in distinction from the fixed
alkalies.

ALKALIFIABLE
Al"ka*li*fi`a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalifiable.]

Defn: Capable of being alkalified, or converted into an alkali.

ALKALI FLAT
Alkali flat.

Defn: A sterile plain, containing an excess of alkali, at the bottom
of an undrained basin in an arid region; a playa.

ALKALIFY
Al"ka*li*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alkalified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alkalifying.] Etym: [Alkali + -fly: cf. F. alcalifier.]

Defn: To convert into an alkali; to give alkaline properties to.

ALKALIFY
Al"ka*li*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become changed into an alkali.

ALKALIMETER
Al`ka*lim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Alkali + -meter. cf. F. alcalimètre.]

Defn: An instrument to ascertain the strength of alkalies, or the
quantity of alkali in a mixture.

ALKALIMETRIC; ALKALIMETRICAL
Al`ka*li*met"ric, Al`ka*li*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to alkalimetry.

ALKALIMETRY
Al`ka*lim"e*try, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalimètrie.] (Chem.)

Defn: The art or process of ascertaining the strength of alkalies, or
the quantity present in alkaline mixtures.

ALKALINE
Al"ka*line, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalin.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an alkali or to alkalies; having the
properties of an alkali. Alkaline earths, certain substances, as
lime, baryta, strontia, and magnesia, possessing some of the
qualities of alkalies.
 -- Alkaline metals, potassium, sodium, cæsium, lithium, rubidium.
 -- Alkaline reaction, a reaction indicating alkalinity, as by the
action on limits, turmeric, etc.

ALKALINITY
Al`ka*lin"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality which constitutes an alkali; alkaline property.
Thomson.

ALKALIOUS
Al*ka"li*ous, a.

Defn: Alkaline. [Obs.]

ALKALI SOIL
Alkali soil.

Defn: Any one of various soils found in arid and semiarid regions,
containing an unusual amount of soluble mineral salts which
effloresce in the form of a powder or crust (usually white) in dry
weather following rains or irrigation. The basis of these salts is
mainly soda with a smaller amount of potash, and usually a little
lime and  magnesia. Two main classes of alkali are commonly
distinguished: black alkali, which may be any alkaline carbonate, but
which practically consists of sodium carbonate (sal soda), which is
highly corrosive and destructive to vegetation; and white alkali,
characterized by the presence of sodium sulphate (Glauber's salt),
which is less injurious to vegetation. Black alkali is so called
because water containing it dissolves humus, forming a dark-colored
solution which, when it collects in puddles and evaporates, produces
characteristic black spots.

ALKALI WASTE
Alkali waste.

Defn: Waste material from the manufacture of alkali; specif., soda
waste.

ALKALIZATE
Al"ka*li*zate, a.

Defn: Alkaline. [Obs.] Boyle.

ALKALIZATE
Al"ka*li**zate, v. t.

Defn: To alkalizate. [R.] Johnson.

ALKALIZATION
Al`ka*li*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalisation.]

Defn: The act rendering alkaline by impregnating with an alkali; a
conferring of alkaline qualities.

ALKALIZE
Al"ka*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alkalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alkalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. alcaliser.]

Defn: To render alkaline; to communicate the properties of an alkali
to.

ALKALOID
Al"ka*loid, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An organic base, especially one of a class of substances
occurring ready formed in the tissues of plants and the bodies of
animals.

Note: Alcaloids all contain nitrogen, carbon, and hydrogen, and many
of them also contain oxygen. They include many of the active
principles in plants; thus, morphine and narcotine are alkaloids
found in opium.

ALKALOID; ALKALOIDAL
Al"ka*loid, Al`ka*loid"al, a. Etym: [Alkali + -oid: cf. F.
alcaloïde.]

Defn: Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, alkali.

ALKANET
Al"ka*net, n. Etym: [Dim. of Sp. alcana, alhe, in which al is the Ar.
article. See Henna, and cf. Orchanet.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A dyeing matter extracted from the roots of Alkanna tinctoria,
which gives a fine deep red color.

2. (Bot.)
(a) A boraginaceous herb (Alkanna tinctoria) yielding the dye;
orchanet.
(b) The similar plant Anchusa officinalis; bugloss; also, the
American puccoon.

ALKARGEN
Al*kar"gen, n. Etym: [Alkarsin + oxygen.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Cacodylic acid.

ALKARSIN
Al*kar"sin, n. Etym: [Alkali + arsenic + -in.] (Chem.)

Defn: A spontaneously inflammable liquid, having a repulsive odor,
and consisting of cacodyl and its oxidation products; -- called also
Cadel's fuming liquid.

ALKAZAR
Al*ka"zar.

Defn: See Alcazar.

ALKEKENGI
Al`ke*ken"gi, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alkékenge, Sp. alquequenje, ultimately
fr. Ar. al-kakanj a kind of resin from Herat.] (Bot.)

Defn: An herbaceous plant of the nightshade family (Physalis
alkekengi) and its fruit, which is a well flavored berry, the size of
a cherry, loosely inclosed in a enlarged leafy calyx; -- also called
winter cherry, ground cherry, and strawberry tomato. D. C. Eaton.

ALKERMES
Al*ker"mes, n. Etym: [Ar. al-qirmiz kermes. See Kermes.] (Old
Pharmacy)

Defn: A compound cordial, in the form of a confection, deriving its
name from the kermes insect, its principal ingredient.

ALKORAN
Al"ko*ran, n.

Defn: The Mohammedan Scriptures. Same as Alcoran and Koran.

ALKORANIC
Al`ko*ran"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Alcoranic.

ALKORANIST
Al`ko*ran"ist, n.

Defn: Same as Alcoranist.

ALL
All, a. Etym: [OE. al, pl. alle, AS. eal, pl. ealle, Northumbrian
alle, akin to D. & OHG. al, Ger. all, Icel. allr. Dan. al, Sw. all,
Goth. alls; and perh. to Ir. and Gael. uile, W. oll.]

1. The whole quantity, extent, duration, amount, quality, or degree
of; the whole; the whole number of; any whatever; every; as, all the
wheat; all the land; all the year; all the strength; all happiness;
all abundance; loss of all power; beyond all doubt; you will see us
all (or all of us).
Prove all things: hold fast that which is good. 1 Thess. v. 21.

2. Any. [Obs.] "Without all remedy." Shak.

Note: When the definite article "the," or a possessive or a
demonstrative pronoun, is joined to the noun that all qualifies, all
precedes the article or the pronoun; as, all the cattle; all my
labor; all his wealth; all our families; all your citizens; all their
property; all other joys.

Note: This word, not only in popular language, but in the Scriptures,
often signifies, indefinitely, a large portion or number, or a great
part. Thus, all the cattle in Egypt died, all Judea and all the
region round about Jordan, all men held John as a prophet, are not to
be understood in a literal sense, but as including a large part, or
very great numbers.

3. Only; alone; nothing but.
I was born to speak all mirth and no matter. Shak.
All the whole, the whole (emphatically). [Obs.] "All the whole army."
Shak.

ALL
All, adv.

1. Wholly; completely; altogether; entirely; quite; very; as, all
bedewed; my friend is all for amusement. "And cheeks all pale."
Byron.

Note: In the ancient phrases, all too dear, all too much, all so
long, etc., this word retains its appropriate sense or becomes
intensive.

2. Even; just. (Often a mere intensive adjunct.) [Obs. or Poet.]
All as his straying flock he fed. Spenser.
A damsel lay deploring All on a rock reclined. Gay.
All to, or All-to. In such phrases as "all to rent," "all to break,"
"all-to frozen," etc., which are of frequent occurrence in our old
authors, the all and the to have commonly been regarded as forming a
compound adverb, equivalent in meaning to entirely, completely,
altogether. But the sense of entireness lies wholly in the word all
(as it does in "all forlorn," and similar expressions), and the to
properly belongs to the following word, being a kind of intensive
prefix (orig. meaning asunder and answering to the LG. ter-, HG. zer-
). It is frequently to be met with in old books, used without the
all. Thus Wyclif says, "The vail of the temple was to rent:" and of
Judas, "He was hanged and to-burst the middle:" i. e., burst in two,
or asunder.
 -- All along. See under Along.
 -- All and some, individually and collectively, one and all. [Obs.]
"Displeased all and some." Fairfax.
 -- All but. (a) Scarcely; not even. [Obs.] Shak. (b) Almost; nearly.
"The fine arts were all but proscribed." Macaulay.
 -- All hollow, entirely, completely; as, to beat any one all hollow.
[Low] -- All one, the same thing in effect; that is, wholly the same
thing.
 -- All over, over the whole extent; thoroughly; wholly; as, she is
her mother all over. [Colloq.] -- All the better, wholly the better;
that is, better by the whole difference.
 -- All the same, nevertheless. "There they [certain phenomena]
remain rooted all the same, whether we recognize them or not." J. C.
Shairp. "But Rugby is a very nice place all the same." T. Arnold.
 -- See also under All, n.

ALL
All, n.

Defn: The whole number, quantity, or amount; the entire thing;
everything included or concerned; the aggregate; the whole; totality;
everything or every person; as, our all is at stake.
Death, as the Psalmist saith, is certain to all. Shak.
All that thou seest is mine. Gen. xxxi. 43.

Note: All is used with of, like a partitive; as, all of a thing, all
of us. After all, after considering everything to the contrary;
nevertheless.
 -- All in all, a phrase which signifies all things to a person, or
everything desired; (also adverbially) wholly; altogether.
Thou shalt be all in all, and I in thee, Forever. Milton.
Trust me not at all, or all in all. Tennyson.
-- All in the wind (Naut.), a phrase denoting that the sails are
parallel with the course of the wind, so as to shake.
 -- All told, all counted; in all.
 -- And all, and the rest; and everything connected. "Bring our crown
and all." Shak.
 -- At all. (a) In every respect; wholly; thoroughly. [Obs.] "She is
a shrew at al(l)." Chaucer. (b) A phrase much used by way of
enforcement or emphasis, usually in negative or interrogative
sentences, and signifying in any way or respect; in the least degree
or to the least extent; in the least; under any circumstances; as, he
has no ambition at all; has he any property at all "Nothing at all. "
Shak. "It thy father at all miss me." 1 Sam. xx. 6.
 -- Over all, everywhere. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Note: All is much used in composition to enlarge the meaning, or add
force to a word. In some instances, it is completely incorporated
into words, and its final consonant is dropped, as in almighty,
already, always: but, in most instances, it is an adverb prefixed to
adjectives or participles, but usually with a hyphen, as, all-
bountiful, all-glorious, allimportant, all-surrounding, etc. In
others it is an adjective; as, allpower, all-giver. Anciently many
words, as, alabout, alaground, etc., were compounded with all, which
are now written separately.

ALL
All, conj. Etym: [Orig. all, adv., wholly: used with though or if,
which being dropped before the subjunctive left all as if in the
sense although.]

Defn: Although; albeit. [Obs.]
All they were wondrous loth. Spenser.

ALLA BREVE
Al`la bre"ve. Etym: [It., according to the breve.] (Old Church Music)

Defn: With one breve, or four minims, to measure, and sung faster
like four crotchets; in quick common time; -- indicated in the time
signature by

ALLAH
Al"lah, n. Etym: [ contr. fr. the article al the + ilah God.]

Defn: The name of the Supreme Being, in use among the Arabs and the
Mohammedans generally.

ALL-A-MORT
All`-a-mort", a.

Defn: See Alamort.

ALLANITE
Al"lan*ite, n. Etym: [From T. Allan, who first distinguished it as a
species.] (min.)

Defn: A silicate containing a large amount of cerium. It is usually
black in color, opaque, and is related to epidote in form and
composition.

ALLANTOIC
Al`lan*to"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. allantoïque.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or contained in, the allantois. Allantoic acid.
(Chem.) See Allantoin.

ALLANTOID; ALLANTOIDAL
Al*lan"toid, Al`lan*toid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the allantois.

ALLANTOIDEA
Al`lan*toid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of Vertebrata in which the embryo develops an
allantois. It includes reptiles, birds, and mammals.

ALLANTOIN
Al*lan"to*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline, transparent, colorless substance found in the
allantoic liquid of the fetal calf; -- formerly called allantoic acid
and amniotic acid.

ALLANTOIS; ALLANTOID
Al*lan"to*is, Al*lan"toid, } n.. (Anat.)

Defn: A membranous appendage of the embryos of mammals, birds, and
reptiles, -- in mammals serving to connect the fetus with the parent;
the urinary vesicle.

ALLATRATE
Al"la*trate, v. i. Etym: [L. allatrare. See Latrate.]

Defn: To bark as a dog. [Obs.] Stubbes.

ALLAY
Al*lay", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Allaying.]
Etym: [OE. alaien, aleggen, to lay down, put down, humble, put an end
to, AS. alecgan; a- (cf. Goth. us-, G. er-, orig. meaning out) +
lecgan to lay; but confused with old forms of allege, alloy, alegge.
See Lay.]

1. To make quiet or put at rest; to pacify or appease; to quell; to
calm; as, to allay popular excitement; to allay the tumult of the
passions.

2. To alleviate; to abate; to mitigate; as, to allay the severity of
affliction or the bitterness of adversity.
It would allay the burning quality of that fell poison. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To alleviate; check; repress; assuage; appease; abate; subdue;
destroy; compose; soothe; calm; quiet. See Alleviate.

ALLAY
Al*lay", v. t.

Defn: To diminish in strength; to abate; to subside. "When the rage
allays." Shak.

ALLAY
Al*lay", n.

Defn: Alleviation; abatement; check. [Obs.]

ALLAY
Al*lay", n.

Defn: Alloy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALLAY
Al*lay", v. t.

Defn: To mix (metals); to mix with a baser metal; to alloy; to
deteriorate. [Archaic] Fuller.

ALLAYER
Al*lay"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, allays.

ALLAYMENT
Al*lay"ment, n.

Defn: An allaying; that which allays; mitigation. [Obs.]
The like allayment could I give my grief. Shak.

ALLECRET
Al"le*cret, n. Etym: [OF. alecret, halecret, hallecret.]

Defn: A kind of light armor used in the sixteenth century, esp. by
the Swiss. Fairholt.

ALLECT
Al*lect", v. t. Etym: [L. allectare, freq. of allicere, allectum.]

Defn: To allure; to entice. [Obs.]

ALLECTATION
Al`lec*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. allectatio.]

Defn: Enticement; allurement. [Obs.] Bailey.

ALLECTIVE
Al*lec"tive, a. Etym: [LL. allectivus.]

Defn: Alluring. [Obs.]

ALLECTIVE
Al*lec"tive, n.

Defn: Allurement. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

ALLEDGE
Al*ledge", v. t.

Defn: See Allege. [Obs.]

Note: This spelling, corresponding to abridge, was once the
prevailing one.

ALLEGATION
Al`le*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. allegatio, fr. allegare, allegatum, to
send a message, cite; later, to free by giving reasons; ad + legare
to send, commission. Cf. Allege and Adlegation.]

1. The act of alleging or positively asserting.

2. That which is alleged, asserted, or declared; positive assertion;
formal averment
I thought their allegation but reasonable. Steele.

3. (Law)

Defn: A statement by a party of what he undertakes to prove, --
usually applied to each separate averment; the charge or matter
undertaken to be proved.

ALLEGE
Al*lege", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alleged; p. pr. & vb. n. Alleging.]
Etym: [OE. aleggen to bring forward as evidence, OF. esligier to buy,
prop. to free from legal difficulties, fr. an assumed LL. exlitigare;
L. ex + litigare to quarrel, sue (see Litigate). The word was
confused with L. allegare (see Allegation), and lex law. Cf. Allay.]

1. To bring forward with positiveness; to declare; to affirm; to
assert; as, to allege a fact.

2. To cite or quote; as, to allege the authority of a judge.
[Archaic]

3. To produce or urge as a reason, plea, or excuse; as, he refused to
lend, alleging a resolution against lending.

Syn.
 -- To bring forward; adduce; advance; assign; produce; declare;
affirm; assert; aver; predicate.

ALLEGE
Al*lege", v. t. Etym: [See Allay.]

Defn: To alleviate; to lighten, as a burden or a trouble. [Obs.]
Wyclif.

ALLEGEABLE
Al*lege"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being alleged or affirmed.
The most authentic examples allegeable in the case. South.

ALLEGEANCE
Al*lege"ance, n.

Defn: Allegation. [Obs.]

ALLEGEMENT
Al*lege"ment, n.

Defn: Allegation. [Obs.]
With many complaints and allegements. Bp. Sanderson.

ALLEGER
Al*leg"er, n.

Defn: One who affirms or declares.

ALLEGGE
Al*legge", v. t.

Defn: See Alegge and Allay. [Obs.]

ALLEGHENIAN; ALLEGHANIAN
Al`le*ghe"ni*an, a. Also Al`le*gha"ni*an. (Biogeography)

Defn: Pertaining to or designating the humid division of the
Transition zone extending across the northern United States from New
England to eastern Dakota, and including also most of Pennsylvania
and the mountainous region as far south as northern Georgia.

ALLEGHENY; ALLEGHANY
Al"le*ghe`ny, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the Allegheny Mountains, or the region where
they are situated. Also Al"le*gha`ny.

2.  [From the Allegheny River, Pennsylvania.] (Geol.) Pertaining to
or designating a subdivision of the Pennsylvanian coal measure.

ALLEGIANCE
Al*le"giance, n. Etym: [OE. alegeaunce; pref. a- + OF. lige, liege.
The meaning was influenced by L. ligare to bind, and even by lex,
legis, law. See Liege, Ligeance.]

1. The tie or obligation, implied or expressed, which a subject owes
to his sovereign or government; the duty of fidelity to one's king,
government, or state.

2. Devotion; loyalty; as, allegiance to science.

Syn.
 -- Loyalty; fealty.
 -- Allegiance, Loyalty. These words agree in expressing the general
idea of fidelity and attachment to the "powers that be." Allegiance
is an obligation to a ruling power. Loyalty is a feeling or sentiment
towards such power. Allegiance may exist under any form of
government, and, in a republic, we generally speak of allegiance to
the government, to the state, etc. In well conducted monarchies,
loyalty is a warm-hearted feeling of fidelity and obedience to the
sovereign. It is personal in its nature; and hence we speak of the
loyalty of a wife to her husband, not of her allegiance. In cases
where we personify, loyalty is more commonly the word used; as,
loyalty to the constitution; loyalty to the cause of virtue; loyalty
to truth and religion, etc.
Hear me, recreant, on thine allegiance hear me! Shak.
So spake the Seraph Abdiel, faithful found, . . . Unshaken,
unseduced, unterrified, His loyalty he kept, his love, his zeal.
Milton.

ALLEGIANT
Al*le"giant, a.

Defn: Loyal. Shak.

ALLEGORIC; ALLEGORICAL
Al`le*gor"ic, Al`le*gor"ic*al, a. Etym: [F. allégorique, L.
allegorius, fr. Gr. Allegory.]

Defn: Belonging to, or consisting of, allegory; of the nature of an
allegory; describing by resemblances; figurative. "An allegoric
tale." Falconer. "An allegorical application." Pope.
Allegorical being . . . that kind of language which says one thing,
but means another. Max Miller.
Al`le*gor"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Al`le*gor"ic*al*ness, n.

ALLEGORIST
Al"le*go*rist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. allegoriste.]

Defn: One who allegorizes; a writer of allegory. Hume.

ALLEGORIZATION
Al`le*gor"i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of turning into allegory, or of understanding in an
allegorical sense.

ALLEGORIZE
Al"le*go*rize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allegorized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Allegorizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. allégoriser, fr. L. allegorizare.]

1. To form or turn into allegory; as, to allegorize the history of a
people.

2. To treat as allegorical; to understand in an allegorical sense;
as, when a passage in a writer may understood literally or
figuratively, he who gives it a figurative sense is said to
allegorize it.

ALLEGORIZE
Al"le*go*rize, v. t.

Defn: To use allegory. Holland.

ALLEGORIZER
Al"le*go*ri`zer, n.

Defn: One who allegorizes, or turns things into allegory; an
allegorist.

ALLEGORY
Al"le*go*ry, n.; pl. Allegories. Etym: [L. allegoria, Gr. allégorie.]

1. A figurative sentence or discourse, in which the principal subject
is described by another subject resembling it in its properties and
circumstances. The real subject is thus kept out of view, and we are
left to collect the intentions of the writer or speaker by the
resemblance of the secondary to the primary subject.

2. Anything which represents by suggestive resemblance; an emblem.

3. (Paint. & Sculpt.)

Defn: A figure representation which has a meaning beyond notion
directly conveyed by the object painted or sculptured.

Syn.
 -- Metaphor; fable.
 -- Allegory, Parable. "An allegory differs both from fable and
parable, in that the properties of persons are fictitiously
represented as attached to things, to which they are as it were
transferred. . . . A figure of Peace and Victory crowning some
historical personage is an allegory. "I am the Vine, ye are the
branches" [John xv. 1-6] is a spoken allegory. In the parable there
is no transference of properties. The parable of the sower [Matt.
xiii. 3-23] represents all things as according to their proper
nature. In the allegory quoted above the properties of the vine and
the relation of the branches are transferred to the person of Christ
and His apostles and disciples." C. J. Smith.

Note: An allegory is a prolonged metaphor. Bunyan's "Pilgrim's
Progress" and Spenser's "Faërie Queene" are celebrated examples of
the allegory.

ALLEGRESSE
Al`le`gresse", n. Etym: [F. allégresse, fr. L. alacer sprightly.]

Defn: Joy; gladsomeness.

ALLEGRETTO
Al`le*gret"to, a. Etym: [It., dim. of allegro.] (Mus.)

Defn: Quicker than andante, but not so quick as allegro.
 -- n.

Defn: A movement in this time.

ALLEGRO
Al*le"gro, a. Etym: [It., merry, gay, fr. L. alacer lively. Cf.
Aleger.] (Mus.)

Defn: Brisk, lively.
 -- n.

Defn: An allegro movement; a quick, sprightly strain or piece.

ALLELOMORPH
Al*le"lo*morph, n. [Gr.  of one another + Gr.  form.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of the pure unit characters commonly existing singly or in
pairs in the germ cells of Mendelian hybrids, and exhibited in
varying proportion among the organisms themselves. Allelomorphs which
under certain circumstances are themselves compound are called
hypallelomorphs. See Mendel's law. -- Al*le`lo*mor"phic (#), a.

As we know that the several unit characters are of such a nature that
any one of them is capable of independently displacing or being
displaced by one or more alternative characters taken singly, we may
recognize this fact by naming such characters allelomorphs.
Bateson.

ALLELUIA; ALLELUIAH
Al`le*lu"ia, Al`le*lu"iah, n. Etym: [L. alleluia, Gr. hall-yah. See
Hallelujah.]

Defn: An exclamation signifying Praise ye Jehovah. Hence: A song of
praise to God. See Hallelujah, the commoner form.
I heard a great voice of much people in heaven, saying, Alleluia.
Rev. xix. 1.

ALLEMANDE
Al"le*mande", n. Etym: [F., fr. allemand German.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A dance in moderate twofold time, invented by the French in the
reign of Louis XIV.; -- now mostly found in suites of pieces, like
those of Bach and Handel.

2. A figure in dancing.

ALLEMANNIC
Al`le*man"nic, a.

Defn: See Alemannic.

ALLENARLY
Al*len"ar*ly, adv. Etym: [All + anerly singly, fr. ane one.]

Defn: Solely; only. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

ALLER
Al"ler, a. Etym: [For ealra, the AS. gen. pl. of eal all.]

Defn: Same as Alder, of all. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALLERION
Al*le"ri*on, n. Etym: [F. alérion, LL. alario a sort of eagle; of
uncertain origin.] (Her.)

Defn: Am eagle without beak or feet, with expanded wings. Burke.

ALLEVIATE
Al*le"vi*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alleviated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alleviating.] Etym: [LL. alleviare, fr. L. ad + levis light. See
Alegge, Levity.]

1. To lighten or lessen the force or weight of. [Obs.]
Should no others join capable to alleviate the expense. Evelyn.
Those large bladders . . . conduce much to the alleviating of the
body [of flying birds]. Ray.

2. To lighten or lessen (physical or mental troubles); to mitigate,
or make easier to be endured; as, to alleviate sorrow, pain, care,
etc. ; -- opposed to aggravate.
The calamity of the want of the sense of hearing is much alleviated
by giving the use of letters. Bp. Horsley.

3. To extenuate; to palliate. [R.]
He alleviates his fault by an excuse. Johnson.

Syn.
 -- To lessen; diminish; soften; mitigate; assuage; abate; relieve;
nullify; allay.
 -- To Alleviate, Mitigate, Assuage, Allay. These words have in
common the idea of relief from some painful state; and being all
figurative, they differ in their application, according to the image
under which this idea is presented. Alleviate supposes a load which
is lightened or taken off; as, to alleviate one's cares. Mitigate
supposes something fierce which is made mild; as, to mitigate one's
anguish. Assuage supposes something violent which is quieted; as, to
assuage one's sorrow. Allay supposes something previously excited,
but now brought down; as, to allay one's suffering or one's thirst.
To alleviate the distresses of life; to mitigate the fierceness of
passion or the violence of grief; to assuage angry feeling; to allay
wounded sensibility.

ALLEVIATION
Al*le`vi*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. alleviatio.]

1. The act of alleviating; a lightening of weight or severity;
mitigation; relief.

2. That which mitigates, or makes more tolerable.
I have not wanted such alleviations of life as friendship could
supply. Johnson.

ALLEVIATIVE
Al*le"vi*a*tive, a.

Defn: Tending to alleviate.
 -- n.

Defn: That which alleviates.

ALLEVIATOR
Al*le"vi*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, alleviaties.

ALLEVIATORY
Al*le"vi*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Alleviative. Carlyle.

ALLEY
Al"ley, n.; pl. Alleys. Etym: [OE. aley, alley, OF. alée, F. allée, a
going, passage, fr. OE. aler, F. aller, to go; of uncertain origin:
cf. Prov. anar, It. andare, Sp. andar.]

1. A narrow passage; especially a walk or passage in a garden or
park, bordered by rows of trees or bushes; a bordered way.
I know each lane and every alley green. Milton.

2. A narrow passage or way in a city, as distinct from a public
street. Gay.

3. A passageway between rows of pews in a church.

4. (Persp.)

Defn: Any passage having the entrance represented as wider than the
exit, so as to give the appearance of length.

5. The space between two rows of compositors' stands in a printing
office.

ALLEY
Al"ley, n.; pl. Alleys. Etym: [A contraction of alabaster, of which
it was originally made.]

Defn: A choice taw or marble. Dickens.

ALLEYED
Al"leyed, a.

Defn: Furnished with alleys; forming an alley. "An alleyed walk." Sir
W. Scott.

ALLEYWAY
Al"ley*way` n.

Defn: An alley.

ALL FOOLS' DAY
All" Fools' Day`.

Defn: The first day of April, a day on which sportive impositions are
practiced.
The first of April, some do say, Is set apart for All Fools' Day.
Poor Robin's Almanack (1760).

ALLFOURS
All`fours". Etym: [All + four (cards).]

Defn: A game at cards, called "High, Low, Jack, and the Game."

ALL FOURS
All` fours" Etym: [formerly, All` four".]

Defn: All four legs of a quadruped; or the two legs and two arms of a
person. To be, go, or run, on all fours (Fig.), to be on the same
footing; to correspond (with) exactly; to be alike in all the
circumstances to be considered. "This example is on all fours with
the other." "No simile can go on all fours." Macaulay.

ALL HAIL
All` hail". Etym: [All + hail, interj.]

Defn: All health; -- a phrase of salutation or welcome.

ALL-HAIL
All`-hail", v. t.

Defn: To salute; to greet. [Poet.]
Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came missives from the king,
who all-hailed me "Thane of Cawdor." Shak.

ALLHALLOND
All`hal"lond, n.

Defn: Allhallows. [Obs.] Shak.

ALLHALLOW
All`hal"low.

Defn: The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.

ALLHALLOW; ALLHALLOWS
All`hal"low, All`hal"lows, n.

1. All the saints (in heaven). [Obs.]

2. All Saints' Day, November 1st. [Archaic]

ALLHALLOW EVE
All`hal"low eve` (ev`).

Defn: The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.

ALLHALLOWMAS
All`hal"low*mas, n.

Defn: The feast of All Saints.

ALLHALLOWN
All`hal"lown, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the time of Allhallows. [Obs.] "Allhallown
summer." Shak. (i. e., late summer; "Indian Summer").

ALLHALLOWTIDE
All`hal"low*tide`, n. Etym: [AS. tid time.]

Defn: The time at or near All Saints, or November 1st.

ALLHEAL
All"heal, n.

Defn: A name popularly given to the officinal valerian, and to some
other plants.

ALLIABLE
Al*li"a*ble, a.

Defn: Able to enter into alliance.

ALLIACEOUS
Al`li*a"ceous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the genus Allium, or garlic, onions, leeks,
etc.; having the smell or taste of garlic or onions.

ALLIANCE
Al*li"ance, n. Etym: [OE. aliaunce, OF. aliance, F. alliance, fr. OF.
alier, F. allier. See Ally, and cf. LL. alligantia.]

1. The state of being allied; the act of allying or uniting; a union
or connection of interests between families, states, parties, etc.,
especially between families by marriage and states by compact,
treaty, or league; as, matrimonial alliances; an alliance between
church and state; an alliance between France and England.

2. Any union resembling that of families or states; union by
relationship in qualities; affinity.
The alliance of the principles of the world with those of the gospel.
C. J. Smith.
The alliance . . . between logic and metaphysics. Mansel.

3. The persons or parties allied. Udall.

Syn.
 -- Connection; affinity; union; confederacy; confederation; league;
coalition.

ALLIANCE
Al*li"ance, v. t.

Defn: To connect by alliance; to ally. [Obs.]

ALLIANT
Al*li"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alliant, p. pr.]

Defn: An ally; a confederate. [Obs. & R.] Sir H. Wotton.

ALLICE; ALLIS
Al"lice, Al"lis, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European shad (Clupea vulgaris); allice shad. See Alose.

ALLICIENCY
Al*li"cien*cy, n.

Defn: Attractive power; attractiveness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ALLICIENT
Al*li"cient, a. Etym: [L. alliciens, p. pr. of allicere to allure; ad
+ lacere to entice.]

Defn: That attracts; attracting.
 -- n.

Defn: That attracts. [Rare or Obs.]

ALLIED
Al*lied", a.

Defn: United; joined; leagued; akin; related. See Ally.

ALLIGATE
Al*li*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. alligatus, p. p. of alligare. See Ally.]

Defn: To tie; to unite by some tie.
Instincts alligated to their nature. Sir M. Hale.

ALLIGATION
Al`li*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. alligatio.]

1. The act of tying together or attaching by some bond, or the state
of being attached. [R.]

2. (Arith.)

Defn: A rule relating to the solution of questions concerning the
compounding or mixing of different ingredients, or ingredients of
different qualities or values.

Note: The rule is named from the method of connecting together the
terms by certain ligature-like signs. Alligation is of two kinds,
medial and alternate; medial teaching the method of finding the price
or quality of a mixture of several simple ingredients whose prices
and qualities are known; alternate, teaching the amount of each of
several simple ingredients whose prices or qualities are known, which
will be required to make a mixture of given price or quality.

ALLIGATOR
Al"li*ga`tor, n. Etym: [Sp. el lagarto the lizard (el lagarto de
Indias, the cayman or American crocodile), fr. L. lacertus, lacerta,
lizard. See Lizard.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large carnivorous reptile of the Crocodile family, peculiar
to America. It has a shorter and broader snout than the crocodile,
and the large teeth of the lower jaw shut into pits in the upper jaw,
which has no marginal notches. Besides the common species of the
southern United States, there are allied species in South America.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: Any machine with strong jaws, one of which opens like the
movable jaw of an alligator; as, (a) (Metal Working)

Defn: a form of squeezer for the puddle ball;
(b) (Mining) a rock breaker;
(c) (Printing) a kind of job press, called also alligator press.
Alligator apple (Bot.), the fruit of the Anona palustris, a West
Indian tree. It is said to be narcotic in its properties. Loudon.
 -- Alligator fish (Zoöl.), a marine fish of northwestern America
(Podothecus acipenserinus).
 -- Alligator gar (Zoöl.), one of the gar pikes (Lepidosteus spatula)
found in the southern rivers of the United States. The name is also
applied to other species of gar pikes.
 -- Alligator pear (Bot.), a corruption of Avocado pear. See Avocado.
 -- Alligator snapper, Alligator tortoise, Alligator turtle (Zoöl.),
a very large and voracious turtle (Macrochelys lacertina) in habiting
the rivers of the southern United States. It sometimes reaches the
weight of two hundred pounds. Unlike the common snapping turtle, to
which the name is sometimes erroneously applied, it has a scaly head
and many small scales beneath the tail. This name is sometimes given
to other turtles, as to species of Trionyx.
 -- Alligator wood, the timber of a tree of the West Indies (Guarea
Swartzii).

ALLIGATOR WRENCH
Al"li*ga`tor wrench. (Mech.)

Defn: A kind of pipe wrench having a flaring jaw with teeth on one
side.

ALLIGNMENT
Al*lign"ment, n.

Defn: See Alignment.

ALLINEATE
Al*lin"e*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. ad + lineatus, p. p. of lineare to draw
a line.]

Defn: To align. [R.] Herschel.

ALLINEATION; ALINEEATION
Al*lin`e*a"tion, A*line`e*a"tion, n.

Defn: Alignment; position in a straight line, as of two planets with
the sun. Whewell.
The allineation of the two planets. C. A. Young.

ALLISION
Al*li"sion, n. Etym: [L. allisio, fr. allidere, to strike or dash
against; ad + laedere to dash against.]

Defn: The act of dashing against, or striking upon.
The boisterous allision of the sea. Woodward.

ALLITERAL
Al*lit"er*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by alliteration.

ALLITERATE
Al*lit"er*ate, v. t.

Defn: To employ or place so as to make alliteration. Skeat.

ALLITERATE
Al*lit"er*ate, v. i.

Defn: To compose alliteratively; also, to constitute alliteration.

ALLITERATION
Al*lit`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. ad + litera letter. See Letter.]

Defn: The repetition of the same letter at the beginning of two or
more words immediately succeeding each other, or at short intervals;
as in the following lines: -
Behemoth, biggest born of earth, upheaved His vastness. Milton.
Fly o'er waste fens and windy fields. Tennyson.

Note: The recurrence of the same letter in accented parts of words is
also called alliteration. Anglo-Saxon poetry is characterized by
alliterative meter of this sort. Later poets also employed it.
In a somer seson whan soft was the sonne, I shope me in shroudes as I
a shepe were. P. Plowman.

ALLITERATIVE
Al*lit"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, alliteration; as,
alliterative poetry.
 -- Al*lit"er*a*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Al*lit"er*a*tive*ness, n.

ALLITERATOR
Al*lit"er*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who alliterates.

ALLIUM
Al"li*um, n. Etym: [L., garlic.] (bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, including the onion, garlic, leek, chive,
etc.

ALLMOUTH
All"mouth`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The angler.

ALLNESS
All"ness, n.

Defn: Totality; completeness. [R.]
The allness of God, including his absolute spirituality, supremacy,
and eternity. R. Turnbull.

ALLNIGHT
All"night`, n.

Defn: Light, fuel, or food for the whole night. [Obs.] Bacon.

ALLOCATE
Al"lo*cate, v. t. Etym: [LL. allocatus, p. p. of allocare, fr. L. ad
+ locare to place. See Allow.]

1. To distribute or assign; to allot. Burke.

2. To localize. [R.]

ALLOCATION
Al`lo*ca"tion, n. Etym: [LL. allocatio: cf. F. allocation.]

1. The act of putting one thing to another; a placing; disposition;
arrangement. Hallam.

2. An allotment or apportionment; as, an allocation of shares in a
company.
The allocation of the particular portions of Palestine to its
successive inhabitants. A. R. Stanley.

3. The admission of an item in an account, or an allowance made upon
an account; -- a term used in the English exchequer.

ALLOCATUR
Al`lo*ca"tur, n. Etym: [LL., it is allowed, fr. allocare to allow.]
(Law)

Defn: "Allowed." The word allocatur expresses the allowance of a
proceeding, writ, order, etc., by a court, judge, or judicial
officer.

ALLOCHROIC
Al`lo*chro"ic, a.

Defn: Changeable in color.

ALLOCHROITE
Al*loch"ro*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Garnet.

ALLOCHROOUS
Al*loch"ro*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Changing color.

ALLOCUTION
Al`lo*cu"tion, n. Etym: [L. allocuto, fr. alloqui to speak to; ad +
loqui to speak: cf. F. allocution.]

1. The act or manner of speaking to, or of addressing in words.

2. An address; a hortatory or authoritative address as of a pope to
his clergy. Addison.

ALLOD
Al"lod, n.

Defn: See Allodium.

ALLODIAL
Al*lo"di*al, a. Etym: [LL. allodialis, fr. allodium: cf. F. allodial.
See Allodium.] (Law)

Defn: Pertaining to allodium; freehold; free of rent or service; held
independent of a lord paramount; -- opposed to feudal; as, allodial
lands; allodial system. Blackstone.

ALLODIAL
Al*lo"di*al, a.

Defn: Anything held allodially. W. Coxe.

ALLODIALISM
Al*lo"di*al*ism, n.

Defn: The allodial system.

ALLODIALIST
Al*lo"di*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who holds allodial land.

ALLODIALLY
Al*lo"di*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By allodial tenure.

ALLODIARY
Al*lo"di*a*ry, n.

Defn: One who holds an allodium.

ALLODIUM
Al*lo"di*um, n. Etym: [LL. allodium, alodium, alodis, alaudis, of
Ger. origin; cf. OHG. al all, and (AS. ead) possession, property. It
means, therefore, entirely one's property.] (Law)

Defn: Freehold estate; land which is the absolute property of the
owner; real estate held in absolute independence, without being
subject to any rent, service, or acknowledgment to a superior. It is
thus opposed to feud. Blackstone. Bouvier.

ALLOGAMOUS
Al*log"a*mous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Characterized by allogamy.

ALLOGAMY
Al*log"a*my n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Fertilization of the pistil of a plant by pollen from another
of the same species; cross-fertilization.

ALLOGENEOUS
Al`lo*ge"ne*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Different in nature or kind. [R.]

ALLOGRAPH
Al"lo*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: A writing or signature made by some person other than any of
the parties thereto; -- opposed to autograph.

ALLOMERISM
Al*lom"er*ism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Variability in chemical constitution without variation in
crystalline form.

ALLOMEROUS
Al*lom"er*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Characterized by allomerism.

ALLOMORPH
Al"lo*morph, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)
(a) Any one of two or more distinct crystalline forms of the same
substance; or the substance having such forms; -- as, carbonate of
lime occurs in the allomorphs calcite and aragonite.
(b) A variety of pseudomorph which has undergone partial or complete
change or substitution of material; -- thus limonite is frequently an
allomorph after pyrite. G. H. Williams.

ALLOMORPHIC
Al`lo*mor"phic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to allomorphism.

ALLOMORPHISM
Al`lo*mor"phism, n. (Min.)

Defn: The property which constitutes an allomorph; the change
involved in becoming an allomorph.

ALLONGE
Al*longe", n. Etym: [F. allonge, earlier alonge, a lengthening. See
Allonge, v., and cf. Lunge.]

1. (Fencing)

Defn: A thrust or pass; a lunge.

2. A slip of paper attached to a bill of exchange for receiving
indorsements, when the back of the bill itself is already full; a
rider. [A French usage] Abbott.

ALLONGE
Al*longe", v. i. Etym: [F. allonger; à (L. ad) + long (L. longus)
long.]

Defn: To thrust with a sword; to lunge.

ALLONYM
Al"lo*nym, n. Etym: [F. allonyme, fr. Gr.

1. The name of another person assumed by the author of a work.

2. A work published under the name of some one other than the author.

ALLONYMOUS
Al*lon"y*mous, a.

Defn: Published under the name of some one other than the author.

ALLOO
Al*loo", v. t. or i. Etym: [See Halloo.]

Defn: To incite dogs by a call; to halloo. [Obs.]

ALLOPATH
Al"lo*path, n. Etym: [Cf. F. allopathe.]

Defn: An allopathist. Ed. Rev.

ALLOPATHIC
Al`lo*path"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. allopathique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to allopathy.

ALLOPATHICALLY
Al`lo*path"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner conformable to allopathy; by allopathic methods.

ALLOPATHIST
Al*lop"a*thist, n.

Defn: One who practices allopathy; one who professes allopathy.

ALLOPATHY
Al*lop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr. allopathie, F. allopathie. See Pathos.]

Defn: That system of medical practice which aims to combat disease by
the use of remedies which produce effects different from those
produced by the special disease treated; -- a term invented by
Hahnemann to designate the ordinary practice, as opposed to
homeopathy.

ALLOPHYLIC; ALLOPHYLIAN
Al`lo*phyl"ic, Al`lo*phyl"i*an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to a race or a language neither Aryan nor Semitic.
J. Prichard.

ALLOQUY
Al"lo*quy, n. Etym: [L. alloquim, fr. alloqui.]

Defn: A speaking to another; an address. [Obs.]

ALLOT
Al*lot", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Allotting.]
Etym: [OF. aloter, F. allotir; a (L. ad) + lot lot. See Lot.]

1. To distribute by lot.

2. To distribute, or parcel out in parts or portions; or to
distribute to each individual concerned; to assign as a share or lot;
to set apart as one's share; to bestow on; to grant; to appoint; as,
let every man be contented with that which Providence allots him.
Ten years I will allot to the attainment of knowledge. Johnson.

ALLOTHEISM
Al"lo*the*ism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The worship of strange gods. Jer. Taylor.

ALLOTMENT
Al*lot"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. alotement, F. allotement.]

1. The act of allotting; assignment.

2. That which is allotted; a share, part, or portion granted or
distributed; that which is assigned by lot, or by the act of God;
anything set apart for a special use or to a distinct party.
The alloments of God and nature. L'Estrange.
A vineyard and an allotment for olives and herbs. Broome.

3. (law)

Defn: The allowance of a specific amount of scrip or of a particular
thing to a particular person. Cottage allotment, an allotment of a
small portion of land to a country laborer for garden cultivation.
[Eng.]

ALLOTRIOPHAGY
Al`lo*tri*oph"a*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. allotriophagie.] (Med.)

Defn: A depraved appetite; a desire for improper food.

ALLOTROPHIC
Al`lo*troph"ic, a. [Gr.  other + trophic.]
 (a) (Physiol.) Changed or modified in nutritive power by the process
of digestion.
 (b) (Plant Physiol.) Dependent upon other organisms for nutrition;
heterotrophic; -- said of plants unable to perform photosynthesis, as
all saprophytes; -- opposed to autotrophic.

ALLOTROPIC; ALLOTROPICAL
Al`lo*trop"ic, Al`lo*trop"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. allotropique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to allotropism.
 -- Al`lo*trop"ic*al*ly, adv. Allotropic state, the several
conditions which occur in a case of allotropism.

ALLOTROPICITY
Al*lot`ro*pic"i*ty, n.

Defn: Allotropic property or nature.

ALLOTROPISM; ALLOTROPY
Al*lot"ro*pism, Al*lot"ro*py, n. Etym: [Gr. allotropie.] (Chem.)

Defn: The property of existing in two or more conditions which are
distinct in their physical or chemical relations.

Note: Thus, carbon occurs crystallized in octahedrons and other
related forms, in a state of extreme hardness, in the diamond; it
occurs in hexagonal forms, and of little hardness, in black lead; and
again occurs in a third form, with entire softness, in lampblack and
charcoal. In some cases, one of these is peculiarly an active state,
and the other a passive one. Thus, ozone is an active state of
oxygen, and is distinct from ordinary oxygen, which is the element in
its passive state.

ALLOTROPIZE
Al*lot"ro*pize, v. t.

Defn: To change in physical properties but not in substance. [R.]

ALLOTTABLE
Al*lot"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being allotted.

ALLOTTEE
Al*lot`tee", n.

Defn: One to whom anything is allotted; one to whom an allotment is
made.

ALLOTTER
Al*lot"ter, n.

Defn: One who allots.

ALLOTTERY
Al*lot"ter*y, n.

Defn: Allotment. [Obs.] Shak.

ALLOW
Al*low", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Allowing.]
Etym: [OE. alouen, OF. alouer, aloer, aluer, F. allouer, fr. LL.
allocare to admit as proved, to place, use; confused with OF. aloer,
fr. L. allaudare to extol; ad + laudare to praise. See Local, and cf.
Allocate, Laud.]

1. To praise; to approve of; hence, to sanction. [Obs. or Archaic]
Ye allow the deeds of your fathers. Luke xi. 48.
We commend his pains, condemn his pride, allow his life, approve his
learning. Fuller.

2. To like; to be suited or pleased with. [Obs.]
How allow you the model of these clothes Massinger.

3. To sanction; to invest; to intrust. [Obs.]
Thou shalt be . . . allowed with absolute power. Shak.

4. To grant, give, admit, accord, afford, or yield; to let one have;
as, to allow a servant his liberty; to allow a free passage; to allow
one day for rest.
He was allowed about three hundred pounds a year. Macaulay.

5. To own or acknowledge; to accept as true; to concede; to accede to
an opinion; as, to allow a right; to allow a claim; to allow the
truth of a proposition.
I allow, with Mrs. Grundy and most moralists, that Miss Newcome's
conduct . . . was highly reprehensible. Thackeray.

6. To grant (something) as a deduction or an addition; esp. to abate
or deduct; as, to allow a sum for leakage.

7. To grant license to; to permit; to consent to; as, to allow a son
to be absent.

Syn.
 -- To allot; assign; bestow; concede; admit; permit; suffer;
tolerate. See Permit.

ALLOW
Al*low", v. i.

Defn: To admit; to concede; to make allowance or abatement.
Allowing still for the different ways of making it. Addison.
To allow of, to permit; to admit. Shak.

ALLOWABLE
Al*low"a*ble, a. Etym: [F. allouable.]

1. Praiseworthy; laudable. [Obs.] Hacket.

2. Proper to be, or capable of being, allowed; permissible;
admissible; not forbidden; not unlawful or improper; as, a certain
degree of freedom is allowable among friends.

ALLOWABLENESS
Al*low"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being allowable; permissibleness; lawfulness;
exemption from prohibition or impropriety. South.

ALLOWABLY
Al*low"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an allowable manner.

ALLOWANCE
Al*low"ance, n. Etym: [OF. alouance.]

1. Approval; approbation. [Obs.] Crabbe.

2. The act of allowing, granting, conceding, or admitting;
authorization; permission; sanction; tolerance.
Without the king's will or the state's allowance. Shak.

3. Acknowledgment.
The censure of the which one must in your allowance o'erweigh a whole
theater of others. Shak.

4. License; indulgence. [Obs.] Locke.

5. That which is allowed; a share or portion allotted or granted; a
sum granted as a reimbursement, a bounty, or as appropriate for any
purpose; a stated quantity, as of food or drink; hence, a limited
quantity of meat and drink, when provisions fall short.
I can give the boy a handsome allowance. Thackeray.

6. Abatement; deduction; the taking into account of mitigating
circumstances; as, to make allowance for the inexperience of youth.
After making the largest allowance for fraud. Macaulay.

7. (com.)

Defn: A customary deduction from the gross weight of goods, different
in different countries, such as tare and tret.

ALLOWANCE
Al*low"ance, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allowancing.] Etym: [See Allowance,
n.]

Defn: To put upon a fixed allowance (esp. of provisions and drink);
to supply in a fixed and limited quantity; as, the captain was
obliged to allowance his crew; our provisions were allowanced.

ALLOWEDLY
Al*low"ed*ly adv.

Defn: By allowance; admittedly. Shenstone.

ALLOWER
Al*low"er, n.

1. An approver or abettor. [Obs.]

2. One who allows or permits.

ALLOXAN
Al*lox"an, n. Etym: [Allantoin + oxalic, as containing the elements
of allantion and oxalic acid.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oxidation product of uric acid. It is of a pale reddish
color, readily soluble in water or alcohol.

ALLOXANATE
Al*lox"a*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A combination of alloxanic acid and a base or base or positive
radical.

ALLOXANIC
Al`lox*an"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to alloxan; -- applied to an acid obtained by
the action of soluble alkalies on alloxan.

ALLOXANTIN
Al`lox*an"tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance produced by acting upon uric with warm and very
dilute nitric acid.

ALLOY
Al*loy", n. Etym: [OE. alai, OF. alei, F. aloyer, to alloy, alier to
ally. See Alloy, v. t.]

1. Any combination or compound of metals fused together; a mixture of
metals; for example, brass, which is an alloy of copper and zinc. But
when mercury is one of the metals, the compound is called an amalgam.

2. The quality, or comparative purity, of gold or silver; fineness.

3. A baser metal mixed with a finer.
Fine silver is silver without the mixture of any baser metal. Alloy
is baser metal mixed with it. Locke.

4. Admixture of anything which lessens the value or detracts from;
as, no happiness is without alloy. "Pure English without Latin
alloy." F. Harrison.

ALLOY
Al*loy", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alloyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Alloying.]
Etym: [F. aloyer, OF. alier, allier, later allayer, fr. L. aligare.
See Alloy, n., Ally, v.t., and cf. Allay.]

1. To reduce the purity of by mixing with a less valuable substance;
as, to alloy gold with silver or copper, or silver with copper.

2. To mix, as metals, so as to form a compound.

3. To abate, impair, or debase by mixture; to allay; as, to alloy
pleasure with misfortunes.

ALLOY
Al*loy", v. t.

Defn: To form a metallic compound.
Gold and iron alloy with ease. Ure.

ALLOYAGE
Al*loy"age, n. Etym: [F. aloyage.]

Defn: The act or art of alloying metals; also, the combination or
alloy.

ALLOY STEEL
Al"loy steel.

Defn: Any steel containing a notable quantity of some other metal
alloyed with the iron, usually chromium, nickel, manganese, tungsten,
or vanadium.

ALL-POSSESSED
All`-pos*sessed", a.

Defn: Controlled by an evil spirit or by evil passions; wild.
[Colloq.]

ALL SAINTS; ALL SAINTS'
All" Saints`, All" Saints',

Defn: The first day of November, called, also, Allhallows or
Hallowmas; a feast day kept in honor of all the saints; also, the
season of this festival.

ALL SOULS' DAY
All" Souls' Day`.

Defn: The second day of November; a feast day of the Roman Catholic
church, on which supplications are made for the souls of the faithful
dead.

ALLSPICE
All"spice`, n.

Defn: The berry of the pimento (Eugenia pimenta), a tree of the West
Indies; a spice of a mildly pungent taste, and agreeably aromatic;
Jamaica pepper; pimento. It has been supposed to combine the flavor
of cinnamon, nutmegs, and cloves; and hence the name. The name is
also given to other aromatic shrubs; as, the Carolina allspice
(Calycanthus floridus); wild allspice (Lindera benzoin), called also
spicebush, spicewood, and feverbush.

ALLTHING
All`thing`, adv. Etym: [For in all (= every) thing.]

Defn: Altogether. [Obs.] Shak.

ALLUDE
Al*lude", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Alluded; p. pr. & vb. n. Alluding.]
Etym: [L. alludere to play with, to allude; ad + ludere to play.]

Defn: To refer to something indirectly or by suggestion; to have
reference to a subject not specifically and plainly mentioned; --
followed by to; as, the story alludes to a recent transaction.
These speeches . . . do seem to allude unto such ministerial garments
as were then in use. Hooker.

Syn.
 -- To refer; point; indicate; hint; suggest; intimate; signify;
insinuate; advert. See Refer.

ALLUDE
Al*lude", v. t.

Defn: To compare allusively; to refer (something) as applicable.
[Obs.] Wither.

ALLUMETTE
Al`lu`mette, n. Etym: [F., from allumer to light.]

Defn: A match for lighting candles, lamps, etc.

ALLUMINOR
Al*lu"mi*nor, n. Etym: [OF. alumineor, fr. L. ad + liminare. See
Luminate.]

Defn: An illuminator of manuscripts and books; a limner. [Obs.]
Cowell.

ALLURANCE
Al*lur"ance, n.

Defn: Allurement. [R.]

ALLURE
Al*lure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alluded; p. pr. & vb. n. Alluring.]
Etym: [OF. aleurrer, alurer, fr. a (L. ad) + leurre lure. See Lure.]

Defn: To attempt to draw; to tempt by a lure or bait, that is, by the
offer of some good, real or apparent; to invite by something
flattering or acceptable; to entice; to attract.
With promised joys allured them on. Falconer.
The golden sun in splendor likest Heaven Allured his eye. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To attract; entice; tempt; decoy; seduce.
 -- To Allure, Entice, Decoy, Seduce. These words agree in the idea
of acting upon the mind by some strong controlling influence, and
differ according to the image under which is presented. They are all
used in a bad sense, except allure, which has sometimes (though
rarely) a good one. We are allured by the prospect or offer (usually
deceptive) of some future good. We are commonly enticed into evil by
appeals to our passions. We are decoyed into danger by false
appearances or representations. We are seduced when drawn aside from
the path of rectitude. What allures draws by gentle means; what
entices leads us by promises and persuasions; what decoys betrays us,
as it were, into a snare or net; what seduces deceives us by artful
appeals to the passions.

ALLURE
Al*lure", n.

Defn: Allurement. [R.] Hayward.

ALLURE
Al`lure", n. Etym: [F.; aller to go.]

Defn: Gait; bearing.
The swing, the gait, the pose, the allure of these men. Harper's Mag.

ALLUREMENT
Al*lure"ment, n.

1. The act alluring; temptation; enticement.
Though Adam by his wife's allurement fell. Milton.

2. That which allures; any real or apparent good held forth, or
operating, as a motive to action; as, the allurements of pleasure, or
of honor.

ALLURER
Al*lur"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, allures.

ALLURING
Al*lur"ing, a.

Defn: That allures; attracting; charming; tempting.
 -- Al*lur"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Al*lur"ing*ness, n.

ALLUSION
Al*lu"sion, n. Etym: [L. allusio, fr. alludere to allude: cf. F.
allusion.]

1. A figurative or symbolical reference. [Obs.]

2. A reference to something supposed to be known, but not explicitly
mentioned; a covert indication; indirect reference; a hint.

ALLUSIVE
Al*lu"sive, a.

1. Figurative; symbolical.

2. Having reference to something not fully expressed; containing an
allusion.

ALLUSIVELY
Al*lu"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: Figuratively [Obs.]; by way of allusion; by implication,
suggestion, or insinuation.

ALLUSIVENESS
Al*lu"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being allusive.

ALLUSORY
Al*lu"so*ry, a.

Defn: Allusive. [R.] Warburton.

ALLUVIAL
Al*lu"vi*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alluvial. See Alluvion.]

Defn: Pertaining to, contained in, or composed of, alluvium; relating
to the deposits made by flowing water; washed away from one place and
deposited in another; as, alluvial soil, mud, accumulations,
deposits.

ALLUVION
Al*lu"vi*on, n. Etym: [F. alluvion, L. alluvio, fr. alluere to wash
against; ad + luere, equiv. to lavare, to wash. See Lave.]

1. Wash or flow of water against the shore or bank.

2. An overflowing; an inundation; a flood. Lyell.

3. Matter deposited by an inundation or the action of flowing water;
alluvium.
The golden alluvions are there [in California and Australia] spread
over a far wider space: they are found not only on the banks of
rivers, and in their beds, but are scattered over the surface of vast
plains. R. Cobden.

4. (Law)

Defn: An accession of land gradually washed to the shore or bank by
the flowing of water. See Accretion.

ALLUVIOUS
Al*lu"vi*ous, n. Etym: [L. alluvius. See Alluvion.]

Defn: Alluvial. [R.] Johnson.

ALLUVIUM
Al*lu"vi*um, n.; pl. E. Alluviums, L. Alluvia. Etym: [L., neut. of
alluvius. See Alluvious.] (Geol.)

Defn: Deposits of earth, sand, gravel, and other transported matter,
made by rivers, floods, or other causes, upon land not permanently
submerged beneath the waters of lakes or seas. Lyell.

ALLWHERE
All"where`, adv.

Defn: Everywhere. [Archaic]

ALLWORK
All"work`, n.

Defn: Domestic or other work of all kinds; as, a maid of allwork,
that is, a general servant.

ALLY
Al*ly", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allied; p. pr. & vb. n. Allying.] Etym:
[OE. alien, OF. alier, F. alier, fr. L. alligare to bind to; ad +
ligare to bind. Cf. Alligate, Alloy, Allay, Ligament.]

1. To unite, or form a connection between, as between families by
marriage, or between princes and states by treaty, league, or
confederacy; -- often followed by to or with.
O chief! in blood, and now in arms allied. Pope.

2. To connect or form a relation between by similitude, resemblance,
friendship, or love.
These three did love each other dearly well, And with so firm
affection were allied. Spenser.
The virtue nearest to our vice allied. Pope.

Note: Ally is generally used in the passive form or reflexively.

ALLY
Al*ly", n.; pl. Allies. Etym: [See Ally, v.]

1. A relative; a kinsman. [Obs.] Shak.

2. One united to another by treaty or league; -- usually applied to
sovereigns or states; a confederate.
The English soldiers and their French allies. Macaulay.

3. Anything associated with another as a helper; an auxiliary.
Science, instead of being the enemy of religion, becomes its ally.
Buckle.

4. Anything akin to another by structure, etc.

ALLY
Al"ly, n.

Defn: See Alley, a marble or taw.

ALLYL
Al"lyl, n. Etym: [L. allium garlic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: An organic radical, C3H5, existing especially in oils of garlic
and mustard.

ALLYLENE
Al"ly*lene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H4, homologous with acetylene;
propine. CH3.C.CH

ALMA; ALMAH
Al"ma, Al"mah, n.

Defn: Same as Alme.

ALMACANTAR
Al`ma*can"tar, n. (Astron.)
(a) Same as Almucantar.
(b) A recently invented instrument for observing the heavenly bodies
as they cross a given almacantar circle. See Almucantar.

ALMADIA; ALMADIE
Al`ma*di"a, Al"ma*die, n. Etym: [F. almadie (cf. Sp. & Pg. almadia),
fr. Ar. alma'diyah a raft, float.] (Naut.)
(a) A bark canoe used by the Africans.
(b) A boat used at Calicut, in India, about eighty feet long, and six
or seven broad.

ALMAGEST
Al"ma*gest, n. Etym: [F. almageste, LL. almageste, Ar. al-majisti,
fr. Gr.

Defn: The celebrated work of Ptolemy of Alexandria, which contains
nearly all that is known of the astronomical observations and
theories of the ancients. The name was extended to other similar
works.

ALMAGRA
Al*ma"gra, n. Etym: [Sp. almagra, almagre, fr. Ar. al-maghrah red
clay or earth.]

Defn: A fine, deep red ocher, somewhat purplish, found in Spain. It
is the sil atticum of the ancients. Under the name of Indian red it
is used for polishing glass and silver.

ALMAIN; ALMAYNE; ALMAN
Al"main, Al"mayne, Al"man, n. Etym: [OF. Aleman, F. Allemand, fr. L.
Alemanni, ancient Ger. tribes.] [Obs.]

1. A German. Also adj.,

Defn: German. Shak.

2. The German language. J. Foxe.

3. A kind of dance. See Allemande. Almain rivets, Almayne rivets, or
Alman rivets, a sort of light armor from Germany, characterized by
overlapping plates, arranged to slide on rivets, and thus afford
great flexibility.

ALMA MATER
Al"ma Ma"ter. Etym: [L., fostering mother.]

Defn: A college or seminary where one is educated.

ALMANAC
Al"ma*nac, n. Etym: [LL. almanac, almanach: cf. F. almanach, Sp.
almanaque, It. almanacco, all of uncertain origin.]

Defn: A book or table, containing a calendar of days, and months, to
which astronomical data and various statistics are often added, such
as the times of the rising and setting of the sun and moon, eclipses,
hours of full tide, stated festivals of churches, terms of courts,
etc. Nautical almanac, an almanac, or year book, containing
astronomical calculations (lunar, stellar, etc.), and other
information useful to mariners.

ALMANDINE
Al"man*dine, n. Etym: [LL. almandina, alamandina, for L. alabandina a
precious stone, named after Alabanda, a town in Caria, where it was
first and chiefly found: cf. F. almandine.] (Min.)

Defn: The common red variety of garnet.

ALME; ALMEH
Al"me, Al"meh, n. Etym: [Ar. 'almah (fem.) learned, fr. 'alama to
know: cf. F. almée.]

Defn: An Egyptian dancing girl; an Alma.
The Almehs lift their arms in dance. Bayard Taylor.

ALMENDRON
Al`men*dron", n. Etym: [Sp., fr. almendra almond.]

Defn: The lofty Brazil-nut tree.

ALMERY
Al"mer*y, n.

Defn: See Ambry. [Obs.]

ALMESSE
Alm"esse, n.

Defn: See Alms. [Obs.]

ALMIGHTFUL; ALMIGHTIFUL
Al*might"ful, Al*might"i*ful, a.

Defn: All-powerful; almighty. [Obs.] Udall.

ALMIGHTILY
Al*might"i*ly, adv.

Defn: With almighty power.

ALMIGHTINESS
Al*might"i*ness, n.

Defn: Omnipotence; infinite or boundless power; unlimited might. Jer.
Taylor.

ALMIGHTY
Al*might"y, a. Etym: [AS. ealmihtig, ælmihtig; eal (OE. al) ail +
mihtig mighty.]

1. Unlimited in might; omnipotent; all-powerful; irresistible.
I am the Almighty God. Gen. xvii. 1.

2. Great; extreme; terrible. [Slang]
Poor Aroar can not live, and can not die, -- so that he is in an
almighty fix. De Quincey.
The Almighty, the omnipotent God. Rev. i. 8.

ALMNER
Alm"ner, n.

Defn: An almoner. [Obs.] Spenser.

ALMOND
Alm"ond, n. Etym: [OE. almande, almaunde, alemaunde, F. amande, L.
amygdala, fr. Gr. almendra. Cf. Amygdalate.]

1. The fruit of the almond tree.

Note: The different kinds, as bitter, sweet, thin-shelled, thick-
shelled almonds, and Jordan almonds, are the products of different
varieties of the one species, Amygdalus communis, a native of the
Mediterranean region and western Asia.

2. The tree bears the fruit; almond tree.

3. Anything shaped like an almond. Specifically: (Anat.)

Defn: One of the tonsils. Almond oil, fixed oil expressed from sweet
or bitter almonds.
 -- Oil of bitter almonds, a poisonous volatile oil obtained from
bitter almonds by maceration and distillation; benzoic aldehyde.
 -- Imitation oil of bitter almonds, nitrobenzene.
 -- Almond tree (Bot.), the tree bearing the almond.
 -- Almond willow (Bot.), a willow which has leaves that are of a
light green on both sides; almond-leaved willow (Salix amygdalina).
Shenstone.

ALMOND FURNACE
Al"mond fur`nace. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of Almain furnace, i. e.,
German furnace. See Almain.]

Defn: A kind of furnace used in refining, to separate the metal from
cinders and other foreign matter. Chambers.

ALMONDINE
Al"mon*dine, n.

Defn: See Almandine

ALMONER
Al"mon*er, n. Etym: [OE. aumener, aulmener, OF. almosnier, aumosnier,
F. aumônier, fr. OF. almosne, alms, L. eleemosyna. See Alms.]

Defn: One who distributes alms, esp. the doles and alms of religious
houses, almshouses, etc.; also, one who dispenses alms for another,
as the almoner of a prince, bishop, etc.

ALMONERSHIP
Al"mon*er*ship, n.

Defn: The office of an almoner.

ALMONRY
Al"mon*ry, n.; pl. Almonries. Etym: [OF. aumosnerie, F. aumônerie,
fr. OF. aumosnier. See Almoner.]

Defn: The place where an almoner resides, or where alms are
distributed.

ALMOSE
Al"mose, n.

Defn: Alms. [Obs.] Cheke.

ALMOST
Al"most, adv. Etym: [AS. ealmæst, ælmæst, quite the most, almost all;
eal (OE. al) all + m most.]

Defn: Nearly; well nigh; all but; for the greatest part.
Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Acts xxvi. 28.
Almost never, scarcely ever.
 -- Almost nothing, scarcely anything.

ALMRY
Alm"ry, n.

Defn: See Almonry. [Obs.]

ALMS
Alms, n. sing. & pl. Etym: [OE. almes, almesse, AS. ælmysse, fr. L.
eleemosyna, Gr. Almonry, Eleemosynary.]

Defn: Anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor, as money,
food, or clothing; a gift of charity.
A devout man . . . which gave much alms to the people. Acts x. 2.
Alms are but the vehicles of prayer. Dryden.
Tenure by free alms. See Frankalmoign. Blackstone.

Note: This word alms is singular in its form (almesse), and is
sometimes so used; as, "asked an alms." Acts iii. 3."Received an
alms." Shak. It is now, however, commonly a collective or plural
noun. It is much used in composition, as almsgiver, almsgiving, alms
bag, alms chest, etc.

ALMSDEED
Alms"deed`, n.

Defn: An act of charity. Acts ix. 36.

ALMSFOLK
Alms"folk`, n.

Defn: Persons supported by alms; almsmen. [Archaic] Holinshed.

ALMSGIVER
Alms"giv`er, n.

Defn: A giver of alms.

ALMSGIVING
Alms"giv`ing, n.

Defn: The giving of alms.

ALMSHOUSE
Alms"house`, n.

Defn: A house appropriated for the use of the poor; a poorhouse.

ALMSMAN
Alms"man, n.; fem. Almswoman.

1. A recipient of alms. Shak.

2. A giver of alms. [R.] Halliwell.

ALMUCANTAR
Al`mu*can"tar, n. Etym: [F. almucantarat, almicantarat, ultimately
fr. Ar. al-muqantarat, pl., fr. qantara to bend, arch.] (Astron.)

Defn: A small circle of the sphere parallel to the horizon; a circle
or parallel of altitude. Two stars which have the same almucantar
have the same altitude. See Almacantar. [Archaic] Almucanter staff,
an ancient instrument, having an arc of fifteen degrees, formerly
used at sea to take observations of the sun's amplitude at the time
of its rising or setting, to find the variation of the compass.

ALMUCE
Al"muce, n.

Defn: Same as Amice, a hood or cape.

ALMUDE
Al*mude", n. Etym: [Pg. almude, or Sp. almud, a measure of grain or
dry fruit, fr. Ar. al-mudd a dry measure.]

Defn: A measure for liquids in several countries. In Portugal the
Lisbon almude is about 4.4, and the Oporto almude about 6.6, gallons
U. S. measure. In Turkey the "almud" is about 1.4 gallons.

ALMUG; ALGUM
Al"mug, Al"gum, n. Etym: [Heb., perh. borrowed fr. Skr. valguka
sandalwood.] (Script.)

Defn: A tree or wood of the Bible (2 Chron. ii. 8; 1 K. x. 11).

Note: Most writers at the present day follow Celsius, who takes it to
be the red sandalwood of China and the Indian Archipelago. W. Smith.

ALNAGE
Al"nage, n., Etym: [OF. alnage, aulnage, F. aunage, fr. OF. alne ell,
of Ger. origin: cf. OHG. elina, Goth. aleina, cubit. See Ell.] (O.
Eng. Law)

Defn: Measurement (of cloth) by the ell; also, a duty for such
measurement.

ALNAGER
Al"na*ger, n. Etym: [See Alnage.]

Defn: A measure by the ell; formerly a sworn officer in England,
whose duty was to inspect act measure woolen cloth, and fix upon it a
seal.

ALOE
Al"oe, n.; pl. Aloes. Etym: [L. aloë, Gr. aloe, F. aloès.]

1. pl.

Defn: The wood of the agalloch. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of succulent plants, some classed as trees, others as
shrubs, but the greater number having the habit and appearance of
evergreen herbaceous plants; from some of which are prepared articles
for medicine and the arts. They are natives of warm countries.

3. pl. (Med.)

Defn: The inspissated juice of several species of aloe, used as a
purgative. [Plural in form but syntactically singular.] American
aloe, Century aloe, the agave. See Agave.

ALOES WOOD
Al"oes wood`.

Defn: See Agalloch.

ALOETIC
Al`o*et"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aloétique.]

Defn: Consisting chiefly of aloes; of the nature of aloes.

ALOETIC
Al`o*et"ic, n.

Defn: A medicine containing chiefly aloes.

ALOFT
A*loft", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + loft, which properly meant air. See
Loft.]

1. On high; in the air; high above the ground. "He steers his flight
aloft." Milton.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: In the top; at the mast head, or on the higher yards or
rigging; overhead; hence (Fig. and Colloq.), in or to heaven.

ALOFT
A*loft", prep.

Defn: Above; on top of. [Obs.]
Fresh waters run aloft the sea. Holland.

ALOGIAN
A*lo"gi*an, n. Etym: [LL. Alogiani, Alogii, fr. Gr. (Eccl.)

Defn: One of an ancient sect who rejected St. John's Gospel and the
Apocalypse, which speak of Christ as the Logos. Shipley.

ALOGY
Al"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. alogia, Gr.

Defn: Unreasonableness; absurdity. [Obs.]

ALOIN
Al"o*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter purgative principle in aloes.

ALOMANCY
Al"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy: cf. F. alomancie, halomancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of salt. [Spelt also halomancy.] Morin.

ALONE
A*lone", a. Etym: [All + one. OE. al one all allone, AS. an one,
alone. See All, One, Lone.]

1. Quite by one's self; apart from, or exclusive of, others; single;
solitary; -- applied to a person or thing.
Alone on a wide, wide sea. Coleridge.
It is not good that the man should be alone. Gen. ii. 18.

2. Of or by itself; by themselves; without any thing more or any one
else; without a sharer; only.
Man shall not live by bread alone. Luke iv. 4.
The citizens alone should be at the expense. Franklin.

3. Sole; only; exclusive. [R.]
God, by whose alone power and conversation we all live, and move, and
have our being. Bentley.

4. Hence; Unique; rare; matchless. Shak.

Note: The adjective alone commonly follows its noun. To let or leave
alone, to abstain from interfering with or molesting; to suffer to
remain in its present state.

ALONE
A*lone", adv.

Defn: Solely; simply; exclusively.

ALONELY
A*lone"ly, adv.

Defn: Only; merely; singly. [Obs.]
This said spirit was not given alonely unto him, but unto all his
heirs and posterity. Latimer.

ALONELY
A*lone"ly, a.

Defn: Exclusive. [Obs.] Fabyan.

ALONENESS
A*lone"ness, n.

Defn: A state of being alone, or without company; solitariness. [R.]
Bp. Montagu.

ALONG
A*long", adv. Etym: [OE. along, anlong, AS. andlang, along; pref.
and- (akin to OFris. ond-, OHG. ant-, Ger. ent-, Goth. and-, anda-,
L. ante, Gr. anti, over against) + lang long. See Long.]

1. By the length; in a line with the length; lengthwise.
Some laid along . . . on spokes of wheels are hung. Dryden.

2. In a line, or with a progressive motion; onward; forward.
We will go along by the king's highway. Numb. xxi. 22.
He struck with his o'ertaking wings, And chased us south along.
Coleridge.

3. In company; together.
He to England shall along with you. Shak.
All along, all trough the course of; during the whole time;
throughout. "I have all along declared this to be a neutral paper."
Addison.
 -- To get along, to get on; to make progress, as in business. "She
'll get along in heaven better than you or I." Mrs. Stowe.

ALONG
A*long", prep.

Defn: By the length of, as distinguished from across. "Along the
lowly lands." Dryden.
The kine . . . went along the highway. 1 Sam. vi. 12.

ALONG
A*long". Etym: [AS. gelang owing to.]

Defn: (Now heard only in the prep. phrase along of.) Along of, Along
on, often shortened to Long of, prep. phr., owing to; on account of.
[Obs. or Low. Eng.] "On me is not along thin evil fare." Chaucer.
"And all this is long of you." Shak. "This increase of price is all
along of the foreigners." London Punch.

ALONGSHORE
A*long"shore`, adv.

Defn: Along the shore or coast.

ALONGSHOREMAN
A*long"shore`man, n.

Defn: See Longshoreman.

ALONGSIDE
A*long"side`, adv.

Defn: Along or by the side; side by side with; -- often with of; as,
bring the boat alongside; alongside of him; alongside of the tree.

ALONGST
A*longst", prep. & adv. Etym: [Formed fr. along, like amongst fr.
among.]

Defn: Along. [Obs.]

ALOOF
A*loof", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Alewife.

ALOOF
A*loof", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + loof, fr. D. loef luff, and so
meaning, as a nautical word, to the windward. See Loof, Luff.]

1. At or from a distance, but within view, or at a small distance;
apart; away.
Our palace stood aloof from streets. Dryden.

2. Without sympathy; unfavorably.
To make the Bible as from the hand of God, and then to look at it
aloof and with caution, is the worst of all impieties. I. Taylor.

ALOOF
A*loof", prep.

Defn: Away from; clear from. [Obs.]
Rivetus . . . would fain work himself aloof these rocks and
quicksands. Milton.

ALOOFNESS
A*loof"ness, n.

Defn: State of being aloof. Rogers (1642).
The . . . aloofness of his dim forest life. Thoreau.

ALOPECIA; ALOPECY
Al`o*pe"ci*a, A*lop"e*cy, n. Etym: [L. alopecia, Gr. (med.)

Defn: Loss of the hair; baldness.

ALOPECIST
A*lop"e*cist, n.

Defn: A practitioner who tries to prevent or cure baldness.

ALOSE
A*lose", v. t. Etym: [OE. aloser.]

Defn: To praise. [Obs.]

ALOSE
A"lose, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. alosa or alausa.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European shad (Clupea alosa); -- called also allice shad or
allis shad. The name is sometimes applied to the American shad
(Clupea sapidissima). See Shad.

ALOUATTE
Al`ou*atte", n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the several species of howling monkeys of South America.
See Howler, 2.

ALOUD
A*loud", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + loud.]

Defn: With a loud voice, or great noise; loudly; audibly.
Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice. Isa. lviii. 1.

ALOW
A*low", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + low.]

Defn: Below; in a lower part. "Aloft, and then alow." Dryden.

ALP
Alp, n. Etym: [L. Alpes the Alps, said to be of Celtic origin; cf.
Gael. alp a high mountain, Ir. ailp any huge mass or lump: cf. F.
Alpes.]

1. A very high mountain. Specifically, in the plural, the highest
chain of mountains in Europe, containing the lofty mountains of
Switzerland, etc.
Nor breath of vernal air from snowy alp. Milton.
Hills peep o'er hills, and alps on alps arise. Pope.

2. Fig.: Something lofty, or massive, or very hard to be surmounted.

Note: The plural form Alps is sometimes used as a singular. "The Alps
doth spit." Shak.

ALP
Alp, n.

Defn: A bullfinch. Rom. of R.

ALPACA
Al*pac"a, n. Etym: [Sp. alpaca, fr. the original Peruvian name of the
animal. Cf. Paco.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal of Peru (Lama paco), having long, fine, wooly hair,
supposed by some to be a domesticated variety of the llama.

2. Wool of the alpaca.

3. A thin kind of cloth made of the wooly hair of the alpaca, often
mixed with silk or with cotton.

ALPEN
Al"pen, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Alps. [R.] "The Alpen snow." J.
Fletcher.

ALPENGLOW
Al"pen*glow`, n.

Defn: A reddish glow seen near sunset or sunrise on the summits of
mountains; specif., a reillumination sometimes observed after the
summits have passed into shadow, supposed to be due to a curving
downward (refraction) of the light rays from the west resulting from
the cooling of the air.

ALPENHORN; ALPHORN
{ Al"pen*horn`, Alp"horn`  }, n. [G. Alpenhorn.]

Defn: A curved wooden horn about three feet long, with a cupped
mouthpiece and a bell, used by the Swiss to sound the ranz des vaches
and other melodies. Its notes are open harmonics of the tube.

ALPENSTOCK
Al"pen*stock`, n. Etym: [G.; Alp, gen. pl. Alpen + stock stick.]

Defn: A long staff, pointed with iron, used in climbing the Alps.
Cheever.

ALPESTRINE
Al*pes"trine, a. Etym: [L. Alpestris.]

Defn: Pertaining to the Alps, or other high mountains; as, Alpestrine
diseases, etc.

ALPHA
Al"pha, n. Etym: [L. alpha, Gr. 'a`lfa, from Heb. aleph, name of the
first letter in the alphabet, also meaning ox.]

Defn: The first letter in the Greek alphabet, answering to A, and
hence used to denote the beginning.
In am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the
last. Rev. xxii. 13.

Note: Formerly used also denote the chief; as, Plato was the alpha of
the wits.

Note: In cataloguing stars, the brightest star of a constellation in
designated by Alpha (a); as, a Lyræ.

ALPHABET
Al"pha*bet, n. Etym: [L. alphabetum, fr. Gr. aleph and beth: cf. F.
alphabet.]

1. The letters of a language arranged in the customary order; the
series of letters or signs which form the elements of written
language.

2. The simplest rudiments; elements.
The very alphabet of our law. Macaulay.
Deaf and dumb alphabet. See Dactylology.

ALPHABET
Al"pha*bet, v. t.

Defn: To designate by the letters of the alphabet; to arrange
alphabetically. [R.]

ALPHABETARIAN
Al`pha*bet*a"ri*an, n.

Defn: A learner of the alphabet; an abecedarian. Abp. Sancroft.

ALPHABETIC; ALPHABETICAL
Al`pha*bet"ic, Al`pha*bet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alphabétique.]

1. Pertaining to, furnished with, expressed by, or in the order of,
the letters of the alphabet; as, alphabetic characters, writing,
languages, arrangement.

2. Literal. [Obs.] "Alphabetical servility." Milton.

ALPHABETICALLY
Al`pha*bet"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an alphabetic manner; in the customary order of the letters.

ALPHABETICS
Al`pha*bet"ics, n.

Defn: The science of representing spoken sounds by letters.

ALPHABETISM
Al"pha*bet*ism, n.

Defn: The expression of spoken sounds by an alphabet. Encyc. Brit.

ALPHABETIZE
Al"pha*bet*ize, v. t.

1. To arrange alphabetically; as, to alphabetize a list of words.

2. To furnish with an alphabet.

ALPHA PAPER
Al"pha pa"per. (Photog.)

Defn: A sensitized paper for obtaining positives by artificial light.
It is coated with gelatin containing silver bromide and chloride.
[Eng.]

ALPHA RAYS
Alpha rays. (Physics & Chem.)

Defn: Rays of relatively low penetrating power emitted by radium and
other radioactive substances, and shown to consist of positively
charged particles (perhaps particles of helium) having enormous
velocities but small masses. They are slightly deflected by a strong
magnetic or electric field.

AL-PHITOMANCY
Al-phit"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. mancy: cf. F. alphitomancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of barley meal. Knowles.

ALPHOL
Al"phol, n.  [Alpha- + -ol as in alcohol.] (Pharm.)

Defn: A crystalline derivative of salicylic acid, used as an
antiseptic and antirheumatic.

ALPHONSINE
Al*phon"sine, a.

Defn: Of or relating to Alphonso X., the Wise, King of Castile (1252-
1284). Alphonsine tables, astronomical tables prepared under the
patronage of Alphonso the Wise. Whewell.

ALPIGENE
Al"pi*gene, a. Etym: [L. Alpes Alps + -gen.]

Defn: Growing in Alpine regions.

ALPINE
Al"pine, a. Etym: [L. Alpinus, fr. Alpes the Alps: cf. F. Alpin.]

1. Of or pertaining to the Alps, or to any lofty mountain; as, Alpine
snows; Alpine plants.

2. Like the Alps; lofty. "Gazing up an Alpine height." Tennyson.

ALPINIST
Al"pin*ist, n.

Defn: A climber of the Alps.

ALPIST; ALPIA
Al"pist, Al"pi*a, n. Etym: [F.: cf. Sp. & Pg. alpiste.]

Defn: The seed of canary grass (Phalaris Canariensis), used for
feeding cage birds.

ALQUIFOU
Al"qui*fou, n. Etym: [Equiv. to arquifoux, F. alquifoux, Sp.
alquifól, fr. the same Arabic word as alcohol. See Alcohol.]

Defn: A lead ore found in Cornwall, England, and used by potters to
give a green glaze to their wares; potter's ore.

ALREADY
Al*read"y, adv. Etym: [All (OE. al) + ready.]

Defn: Prior to some specified time, either past, present, or future;
by this time; previously. "Joseph was in Egypt already." Exod. i. 5.
I say unto you, that Elias is come already. Matt. xvii. 12.

Note: It has reference to past time, but may be used for a future
past; as, when you shall arrive, the business will be already
completed, or will have been already completed.

ALS
Als, adv.

1. Also. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. As. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALSATIAN
Al*sa"tian, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Alsatia.

ALSATIAN
Al*sa"tian, n.

Defn: An inhabitant of Alsatia or Alsace in Germany, or of Alsatia or
White Friars (a resort of debtors and criminals) in London.

AL SEGNO
Al` se"gno. Etym: [It., to the mark or sign.](Mus.)

Defn: A direction for the performer to return and recommence from the
sign

ALSIKE
Al"sike, n. Etym: [From Alsike, in Sweden.]

Defn: A species of clover with pinkish or white flowers; Trifolium
hybridum.

ALSO
Al"so, adv. & conj. Etym: [All + so. OE. al so, AS. ealswa, alsw,
ælswæ; eal, al, æl, all + swa so. See All, So, As.]

1. In like manner; likewise. [Obs.]

2. In addition; besides; as well; further; too.
Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven . . . for where your
treasure is, there will your heart be also. Matt. vi. 20.

3. Even as; as; so. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Also, Likewise, Too. These words are used by way of transition,
in leaving one thought and passing to another. Also is the widest
term. It denotes that what follows is all so, or entirely like that
which preceded, or may be affirmed with the same truth; as, "If you
were there, I was there also;" "If our situation has some
discomforts, it has also many sources of enjoyment." Too is simply
less formal and pointed than also; it marks the transition with a
lighter touch; as, "I was there too;" "a courtier yet a patriot too."
Pope. Likewise denotes literally "in like manner," and hence has been
thought by some to be more specific than also. "It implies," says
Whately, "some connection or agreement between the words it unites.
We may say, ` He is a poet, and likewise a musician; ' but we should
not say, ` He is a prince, and likewise a musician,' because there is
no natural connection between these qualities." This distinction,
however, is often disregarded.

ALT
Alt, a. & n. Etym: [See Alto.] (Mus.)

Defn: The higher part of the scale. See Alto. To be in alt, to be in
an exalted state of mind.

ALTAIAN; ALTAIC
Al*ta"ian, Al*ta"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. altaïque.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Altai, a mountain chain in Central
Asia.

ALTAR
Al"tar, n. Etym: [OE. alter, auter, autier, fr. L. altare, pl.
altaria, altar, prob. fr. altus high: cf. OF. alter, autier, F.
autel. Cf. Altitude.]

1. A raised structure (as a square or oblong erection of stone or
wood) on which sacrifices are offered or incense burned to a deity.
Noah builded an altar unto the Lord. Gen. viii. 20.

2. In the Christian church, a construction of stone, wood, or other
material for the celebration of the Holy Eucharist; the communion
table.

Note: Altar is much used adjectively, or as the first part of a
compound; as, altar bread or altar-bread. Altar cloth or Altar-cloth,
the cover for an altar in a Christian church, usually richly
embroidered.
 -- Altar cushion, a cushion laid upon the altar in a Christian
church to support the service book.
 -- Altar frontal. See Frontal.
 -- Altar rail, the railing in front of the altar or communion table.
 -- Altar screen, a wall or partition built behind an altar to
protect it from approach in the rear.
 -- Altar tomb, a tomb resembling an altar in shape, etc.
 -- Family altar, place of family devotions.
 -- To lead (as a bride) to the altar, to marry; -- said of a woman.

ALTARAGE
Al"tar*age, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. auterage, autelage.]

1. The offerings made upon the altar, or to a church.

2. The profit which accrues to the priest, by reason of the altar,
from the small tithes. Shipley.

ALTARIST
Al"tar*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. altarista, F. altariste.] (Old Law)
(a) A chaplain.
(b) A vicar of a church.

ALTARPIECE
Al"tar*piece`, n.

Defn: The painting or piece of sculpture above and behind the altar;
reredos.

ALTARWISE
Al"tar*wise`, adv.

Defn: In the proper position of an altar, that is, at the east of a
church with its ends towards the north and south. Shipley.

ALTAZIMUTH
Alt*az"i*muth, n. Etym: [Alltude + azimuth.] (Astron.)

Defn: An instrument for taking azimuths and altitudes simultaneously.

ALTER
Al"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Altered; p. pr. & vb. n. Altering.] Etym:
[F. altérer, LL. alterare, fr. L. alter other, alius other. Cf. Else,
Other.]

1. To make otherwise; to change in some respect, either partially or
wholly; to vary; to modify. "To alter the king's course." "To alter
the condition of a man." "No power in Venice can alter a decree."
Shak.
It gilds all objects, but it alters none. Pope.
My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of
my lips. Ps. lxxxix. 34.

2. To agitate; to affect mentally. [Obs.] Milton.

3. To geld. [Colloq.]

Syn.
 -- Change, Alter. Change is generic and the stronger term. It may
express a loss of identity, or the substitution of one thing in place
of another; alter commonly expresses a partial change, or a change in
form or details without destroying identity.

ALTER
Al"ter, v. i.

Defn: To become, in some respects, different; to vary; to change; as,
the weather alters almost daily; rocks or minerals alter by exposure.
"The law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not." Dan. vi. 8.

ALTERABILITY
Al`ter*a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. altérabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being alterable; alterableness.

ALTERABLE
Al"ter*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. altérable.]

Defn: Capable of being altered.
Our condition in this world is mutable and uncertain, alterable by a
thousand accidents. Rogers.

ALTERABLENESS
Al"ter*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being alterable; variableness; alterability.

ALTERABLY
Al"ter*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an alterable manner.

ALTERANT
Al"ter*ant, a. Etym: [LL. alterans, p. pr.: cf. F. altérant.]

Defn: Altering; gradually changing. Bacon.

ALTERANT
Al"ter*ant, n.

Defn: An alterative. [R.] Chambers.

ALTERATION
Al`ter*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. altération.]

1. The act of altering or making different.
Alteration, though it be from worse to better, hath in it
incoveniences. Hooker.

2. The state of being altered; a change made in the form or nature of
a thing; changed condition.
Ere long might perceive Strange alteration in me. Milton.
Appius Claudius admitted to the senate the sons of those who had been
slaves; by which, and succeeding alterations, that council
degenerated into a most corrupt. Swift.

ALTERATIVE
Al"ter*a*tive, a. Etym: [L. alterativus: cf. F. altératif.]

Defn: Causing ateration. Specifically:

Defn: Gradually changing, or tending to change, a morbid state of the
functions into one of health. Burton.

ALTERATIVE
Al"ter*a*tive, n.

Defn: A medicine or treatment which gradually induces a change, and
restores healthy functions without sensible evacuations.

ALTERCATE
Al"ter*cate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Altercated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Altercating.] Etym: [L. altercatus, p. p. of altercare, altercari,
fr. alter another. See Alter.]

Defn: The contend in words; to dispute with zeal, heat, or anger; to
wrangle.

ALTERCATION
Al`ter*ca"tion, n. Etym: [F. altercation, fr. L. altercatio.]

Defn: Warm contention in words; dispute carried on with heat or
anger; controversy; wrangle; wordy contest. "Stormy altercations."
Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Altercation, Dispute, Wrangle. The term dispute is in most cases,
but not necessarily, applied to a verbal contest; as, a dispute on
the lawfulness of war. An altercation is an angry dispute between two
parties, involving an interchange of severe language. A wrangle is a
confused and noisy altercation.
Their whole life was little else than a perpetual wrangling and
altercation. Hakewill.

ALTERCATIVE
Al"ter*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by wrangling; scolding. [R.] Fielding.

ALTERITY
Al*ter"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. altérité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being other; a being otherwise. [R.]
For outness is but the feeling of otherness (alterity) rendered
intuitive, or alterity visually represented. Coleridge.

ALTERN
Al"tern, a. Etym: [L. alternus, fr. alter another: cf. F. alterne.]

Defn: Acting by turns; alternate. Milton. Altern base (Trig.), a
second side made base, in distinction from a side previously regarded
as base.

ALTERNACY
Al*ter"na*cy, n.

Defn: Alternateness; alternation. [R.] Mitford.

ALTERNANT
Al*ter"nant, a. Etym: [L. alternans, p. pr.: cf. F. alternant. See
Alternate, v. t.] (Geol.)

Defn: Composed of alternate layers, as some rocks.

ALTERNAT
Al`ter`nat", n. [F.]

Defn: A usage, among diplomats, of rotation in precedence among
representatives of equal rank, sometimes determined by lot and at
other times in regular order. The practice obtains in the signing of
treaties and conventions between nations.

ALTERNATE
Al*ter"nate, a. Etym: [L. alternatus, p. p. of alternate, fr.
alternus. See Altern, Alter.]

1. Being or succeeding by turns; one following the other in
succession of time or place; by turns first one and then the other;
hence, reciprocal.
And bid alternate passions fall and rise. Pope.

2. Designating the members in a series, which regularly intervene
between the members of another series, as the odd or even numbers of
the numerals; every other; every second; as, the alternate members 1,
3, 5, 7, etc. ; read every alternate line.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Distributed, as leaves, singly at different heights of the
stem, and at equal intervals as respects angular divergence. Gray.
Alternate alligation. See Alligation.
 -- Alternate angles (Geom.), the internal and angles made by two
lines with a third, on opposite sides of it. It the parallels AB, CD,
are cut by the line EF, the angles AGH, GHD, as also the angles BGH
and GHC, are called alternate angles.
 -- Alternate generation. (Biol.) See under Generation.

ALTERNATE
Al*ter"nate, n.

1. That which alternates with something else; vicissitude. [R.]
Grateful alternates of substantial. Prior.

2. A substitute; one designated to take the place of another, if
necessary, in performing some duty.

3. (Math.)

Defn: A proportion derived from another proportion by interchanging
the means.

ALTERNATE
Al"ter*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alternated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alternating.] Etym: [L. alternatus, p. p. of alternare. See Altern.]

Defn: To perform by turns, or in succession; to cause to succeed by
turns; to interchange regularly.
The most high God, in all things appertaining unto this life, for
sundry wise ends alternates the disposition of good and evil. Grew.

ALTERNATE
Al"ter*nate, v. i.

1. To happen, succeed, or act by turns; to follow reciprocally in
place or time; -- followed by with; as, the flood and ebb tides
alternate with each other.
Rage, shame, and grief alternate in his breast. J. Philips.
Different species alternating with each other. Kirwan.

2. To vary by turns; as, the land alternates between rocky hills and
sandy plains.

ALTERNATELY
Al*ter"nate*ly, adv.

1. In reciprocal succession; succeeding by turns; in alternate order.

2. (Math.)

Defn: By alternation; when, in a proportion, the antecedent term is
compared with antecedent, and consequent.

ALTERNATENESS
Al*ter"nate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being alternate, or of following by turns.

ALTERNATING CURRENT
Al"ter*nat`ing cur"rent. (Elec.)

Defn: A current which periodically changes or reverses its direction
of flow.

ALTERNATION
Al`ter*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. alternatio: cf. F. alternation.]

1. The reciprocal succession of things in time or place; the act of
following and being followed by turns; alternate succession,
performance, or occurrence; as, the alternation of day and night,
cold and heat, summer and winter, hope and fear.

2. (Math.)

Defn: Permutation.

3. The response of the congregation speaking alternately with the
minister. Mason. Alternation of generation. See under Generation.

ALTERNATIVE
Al*ter"na*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alternatif.]

1. Offering a choice of two things.

2. Disjunctive; as, an alternative conjunction.

3. Alternate; reciprocal. [Obs.] Holland.

ALTERNATIVE
Al*ter"na*tive, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alternative, LL. alternativa.]

1. An offer of two things, one of which may be chosen, but not both;
a choice between two things, so that if one is taken, the other must
be left.
There is something else than the mere alternative of absolute
destruction or unreformed existence. Burke.

2. Either of two things or propositions offered to one's choice. Thus
when two things offer a choice of one only, the two things are called
alternatives.
Having to choose between two alternatives, safety and war, you
obstinately prefer the worse. Jowett (Thucyd. ).

3. The course of action or the thing offered in place of another.
If this demand is refused the alternative is war. Lewis.
With no alternative but death. Longfellow.

4. A choice between more than two things; one of several things
offered to choose among.
My decided preference is for the fourth and last of thalternatives.
Gladstone.

ALTERNATIVELY
Al*ter"na*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of alternatives, or that admits the choice of one
out of two things.

ALTERNATIVENESS
Al*ter"na*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being alternative, or of offering a choice
between two.

ALTERNATOR
Al"ter*na`tor, n. (Elec.)

Defn: An electric generator or dynamo for producing alternating
currents.

ALTERNITY
Al*ter"ni*ty, n. Etym: [LL. alternitas.]

Defn: Succession by turns; alternation. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

ALTHAEA; ALTHEA
Al*thæ"a, Al*the"a, n. Etym: [althaea, Gr. (Bot.)
(a) A genus of plants of the Mallow family. It includes the officinal
marsh mallow, and the garden hollyhocks.
(b) An ornamental shrub (Hibiscus Syriacus) of the Mallow family.

ALTHEINE
Al*the"ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Asparagine.

ALTHING
Al"thing, n. [Icel. (modern) alping, earlier alpingi; allr all + ping
assembly. See All, and Thing.]

Defn: The national assembly or parliament of Iceland. See Thing, n.,
8.

ALTHO
Al*tho", conj.

Defn: Although. [Reformed spelling] Alt"horn`, n. Etym: [Alt + horn.]
(Mus.)

Defn: An instrument of the saxhorn family, used exclusively in
military music, often replacing the French horn. Grove.

ALTHORN
Alt"horn`, n. [Alt + horn.] (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument of the saxhorn family, used exclusively in
military music, often replacing the French horn. Grove.

ALTHOUGH
Al*though", conj. Etym: [All + though; OE. al thagh.]

Defn: Grant all this; be it that; supposing that; notwithstanding;
though.
Although all shall be offended, yet will no I. Mark xiv. 29.

Syn.
 -- Although, Though. Although, which originally was perhaps more
emphatic than though, is now interchangeable with it in the sense
given above. Euphonic consideration determines the choice.

ALTILOQUENCE
Al*til"o*quence, n.

Defn: Lofty speech; pompous language. [R.] Bailey.

ALTILOQUENT
Al*til"o*quent, a. Etym: [L. altus (adv. alte) high + loquens, p. pr.
of loqui to speak.]

Defn: High-sounding; pompous in speech. [R.] Bailey.

ALTIMETER
Al*tim"e*ter, n. Etym: [LL. altimeter; altus high + metrum, Gr.
altimètre.]

Defn: An instrument for taking altitudes, as a quadrant, sextant,
etc. Knight.

ALTIMETRY
Al*tim"e*try, n. Etym: [Cf. F. altimétrie.]

Defn: The art of measuring altitudes, or heights.

ALTINCAR
Al*tin"car, n.

Defn: See Tincal.

ALTISCOPE
Al"ti*scope, n. Etym: [L. altus high + Gr.

Defn: An arrangement of lenses and mirrors which enables a person to
see an object in spite of intervening objects.

ALTISONANT
Al*tis"o*nant, a. Etym: [L. altus high + sonans, p. pr. of sonare to
sound.]

Defn: High-sounding; lofty or pompous. Skelton.

ALTISONOUS
Al*tis"o*nous, a. Etym: [L. altisonus.]

Defn: Altisonant.

ALTISSIMO
Al*tis"si*mo, n. Etym: [It.; superl. of alto.] (Mus.)

Defn: The part or notes situated above F in alt.

ALTITUDE
Al"ti*tude, n. Etym: [L. altitudo, fr. altus high. Cf. Altar,
Haughty, Enhance.]

1. Space extended upward; height; the perpendicular elevation of an
object above its foundation, above the ground, or above a given
level, or of one object above another; as, the altitude of a
mountain, or of a bird above the top of a tree.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The elevation of a point, or star, or other celestial object,
above the horizon, measured by the arc of a vertical circle
intercepted between such point and the horizon. It is either true or
apparent; true when measured from the rational or real horizon,
apparent when from the sensible or apparent horizon.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: The perpendicular distance from the base of a figure to the
summit, or to the side parallel to the base; as, the altitude of a
triangle, pyramid, parallelogram, frustum, etc.

4. Height of degree; highest point or degree.
He is [proud] even to the altitude of his virtue. Shak.

5. Height of rank or excellence; superiority. Swift.

6. pl.

Defn: Elevation of spirits; heroics; haughty airs. [Colloq.]
Richardson.
The man of law began to get into his altitude. Sir W. Scott.
Meridian altitude, an arc of the meridian intercepted between the
south point on the horizon and any point on the meridian. See
Meridian, 3.

ALTITUDINAL
Al`ti*tu"di*nal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to height; as, altitudinal measurements.

ALTITUDINARIAN
Al`ti*tu`di*na"ri*an, a.

Defn: Lofty in doctrine, aims, etc. [R.] Coleridge.

ALTIVOLANT
Al*tiv"o*lant, a. Etym: [L. altivolans. See Volant.]

Defn: Flying high. [Obs.] Blount.

ALTO
Al"to, n.; pl. Altos. Etym: [It. alto high, fr. L. altus. Cf. Alt.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: Formerly the part sung by the highest male, or counter-tenor,
voices; now the part sung by the lowest female, or contralto, voices,
between in tenor and soprano. In instrumental music it now signifies
the tenor.

2. An alto singer. Alto clef (Mus.) the counter-tenor clef, or the C
clef, placed so that the two strokes include the middle line of the
staff. Moore.

ALTO-CUMULUS
Al`to-cu"mu*lus, n. [L. altus high + L. & E. cumulus.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A fleecy cloud formation consisting of large whitish or grayish
globular cloudlets with shaded  portions, often grouped in flocks or
rows.

ALTOGETHER
Al`to*geth"er, adv. Etym: [OE. altogedere; al all + togedere
together. See Together.]

1. All together; conjointly. [Obs.]
Altogether they wenChaucer.

2. Without exception; wholly; completely.
Every man at his best state is altogether vanity. Ps. xxxix. 5.

ALTOMETER
Al*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. altus high + -meter.]

Defn: A theodolite. Knight.

ALTO-RELIEVO
Al"to-re*lie"vo, n.

Defn: Alto-rilievo.

ALTO-RILIEVO
Al"to-ri*lie*vo, n.; pl. Alto-rilievos. Etym: [It.] (Sculp.)

Defn: High relief; sculptured work in which the figures project more
than half their thickness; as, this figure is an alto-rilievo or in
alto-rilievo.

Note: When the figure stands only half out, it is called mezzo-
rilievo, demi-rilievo, or medium relief; when its projection is less
than one half, basso-rilievo, bas-relief, or low relief.

ALTO-STRATUS
Al`to-stra"tus, n. [L. altus high + L. & E. stratus.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A cloud formation similar to cirro-stratus, but heavier and at
a lower level.

ALTRICAL
Al"tri*cal, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like the articles.

ALTRICES
Al*tri"ces, n. pl. Etym: [L., nourishes, pl. of altrix.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Nursers, -- a term applied to those birds whose young are
hatched in a very immature and helpless condition, so as to require
the care of their parents for some time; -- opposed to præcoces.

ALTRUISM
Al"tru*ism, n. Etym: [F. altruisme (a word of Comte's), It. altrui of
or to others, fr. L. alter another.]

Defn: Regard for others, both natural and moral; devotion to the
interests of others; brotherly kindness; -- opposed to egoism or
selfishness. [Recent] J. S. Mill.

ALTRUIST
Al"tru*ist, n.

Defn: One imbued with altruism; -- opposed to egoist.

ALTRUISTIC
Al`tru*is"tic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. altruiste, a. See Altruism..]

Defn: Regardful of others; beneficent; unselfish; -- opposed to Ant:
egoistic or Ant: selfish. Bain.
 -- Al`tru*is"tic*al*ly, adv.

ALUDEL
Al"u*del, n. Etym: [F. & Sp. aludel, fr. Ar. aluthal.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the pear-shaped pots open at both ends, and so formed as
to be fitted together, the neck of one into the bottom of another in
succession; -- used in the process of sublimation. Ure.

ALULA
Al"u*la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. ala a wing.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A false or bastard wing. See under Bastard.

ALULAR
Al"u*lar, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the alula.

ALUM
Al"um, n. Etym: [OE. alum, alom, OF. alum, F. alun, fr. L. alumen
alum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A double sulphate formed of aluminium and some other element
(esp. an alkali metal) or of aluminium. It has twenty-four molecules
of water of crystallization.

Note: Common alum is the double sulphate of aluminium and potassium.
It is white, transparent, very astringent, and crystallizes easily in
octahedrons. The term is extended so as to include other double
sulphates similar to alum in formula.

ALUM
Al"um, v. t.

Defn: To steep in, or otherwise impregnate with, a solution of alum;
to treat with alum. Ure.

ALUMEN
A*lu"men, n. Etym: [L.] (Chem.)

Defn: Alum.

ALUMINA
A*lu"mi*na, n. Etym: [L. alumen, aluminis. See Alum.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the earths, consisting of two parts of aluminium and
three of oxygen, Al2O3.

Note: It is the oxide of the metal aluminium, the base of aluminous
salts, a constituent of a large part of the earthy siliceous
minerals, as the feldspars, micas, scapolites, etc., and the
characterizing ingredient of common clay, in which it exists as an
impure silicate with water, resulting from the decomposition of other
aluminous minerals. In its natural state, it is the mineral corundum.

ALUMINATE
A*lu`mi*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound formed from the hydrate of aluminium by the
substitution of a metal for the hydrogen.

ALUMINATED
A*lu"mi*na`ted. a.

Defn: Combined with alumina.

ALUMINE
Al"u*mine, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Alumina. Davy.

ALUMINIC
Al`u*min"ic, a.

Defn: Of or containing aluminium; as, aluminic phosphate.

ALUMINIFEROUS
A*lu`mi*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. alumen alum + -ferous: cf. F.
aluminifère.]

Defn: Containing alum.

ALUMINIFORM
A*lu"mi*ni*form, a. Etym: [L. alumen + -form.]

Defn: pertaining the form of alumina.

ALUMINIUM
Al`u*min"i*um, n. Etym: [L. alumen. See Alum.] (Chem.)

Defn: The metallic base of alumina. This metal is white, but with a
bluish tinge, and is remarkable for its resistance to oxidation, and
for its lightness, pertaining a specific gravity of about 2.6. Atomic
weight 27.08. Symbol Al. Aluminium bronze or gold, a pale gold-
colored alloy of aluminium and copper, used for journal bearings,
etc.

ALUMINIZE
A*lu"mi*nize, v. t.

Defn: To treat impregnate with alum; to alum.

ALUMINOGRAPHY
A*lu`mi*nog"ra*phy, n. [Alumin-ium + -graphy.]

Defn: Art or process of producing, and printing from, aluminium
plates, after the manner of ordinary lithography. --
A*lu`mi*no*graph"ic (#), a.

ALUMINOUS
A*lu"mi*nous, a. Etym: [L. aluminosus, fr. alumen alum: cf. F.
alumineux.]

Defn: Pertaining to or containing alum, or alumina; as, aluminous
minerals, aluminous solution.

ALUMINUM
A*lu"mi*num, n.

Defn: See Aluminium.

ALUMISH
Al"um*ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat like alum.

ALUMNA
A*lum"na, n. fem.; pl. Alumnæ . Etym: [L. See Alumnus.]

Defn: A female pupil; especially, a graduate of a school or college.

ALUMNUS
A*lum"nus, n.; pl. Alumni. Etym: [L., fr. alere to nourish.]

Defn: A pupil; especially, a graduate of a college or other seminary
of learning.

ALUM ROOT
Al"um root`. (Bot.)

Defn: A North American herb (Heuchera Americana) of the Saxifrage
family, whose root has astringent properties.

ALUM SCHIST; ALUM SHALE
Al"um schist", Al"um shale", (Min.)

Defn: A variety of shale or clay slate, containing iron pyrites, the
decomposition of which leads to the formation of alum, which often
effloresces on the rock.

ALUM STONE
Al"um stone`. (Min.)

Defn: A subsulphate of alumina and potash; alunite.

ALUNITE
Al"u*nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Alum stone.

ALUNOGEN
A*lu"no*gen, n. Etym: [F. alun alum + -gen.] (Min.)

Defn: A white fibrous mineral frequently found on the walls of mines
and quarries, chiefly hydrous sulphate of alumina; -- also called
feather alum, and hair salt.

ALURE
Al"ure, n. Etym: [OF. alure, aleure, walk, gait, fr. aler (F. aller)
to go.]

Defn: A walk or passage; -- applied to passages of various kinds.
The sides of every street were covered with fresh alures of marble.
T. Warton.

ALUTACEOUS
Al"u*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. alutacius, fr. aluta soft leather.]

1. Leathery.

2. Of a pale brown color; leather-yellow. Brande.

ALUTATION
Al`u*ta"tion, n. Etym: [See Alutaceous.]

Defn: The tanning or dressing of leather. [Obs.] Blount.

ALVEARY
Al"ve*a*ry, n.; pl. Alvearies. Etym: [L. alvearium, alveare, beehive,
fr. alveus a hollow vessel, beehive, from alvus belly, beehive.]

1. A beehive, or something resembling a beehive. Barret.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The hollow of the external ear. Quincy.

ALVEATED
Al"ve*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. alveatus hollowed out.]

Defn: Formed or vaulted like a beehive.

ALVEOLAR
Al"ve*o*lar, a. Etym: [L. alveolus a small hollow or cavity: cf. F.
alvéolaire.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, alveoli or little cells,
sacs, or sockets. Alveolar processes, the processes of the maxillary
bones, containing the sockets of the teeth.

ALVEOLARY
Al"ve*o*la*ry, a.

Defn: Alveolar. [R.]

ALVEOLATE
Al"ve*o*late, a. Etym: [L. alveolatus, fr. alveolus.] (Bot.)

Defn: Deeply pitted, like a honeycomb.

ALVEOLE
Al"ve*ole, n.

Defn: Same as Alveolus.

ALVEOLIFORM
Al*ve"o*li*form, a. Etym: [L. alvelous + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of alveoli, or little sockets, cells, or
cavities.

ALVEOLUS
Al*ve"o*lus, n.; pl. Alveoli. Etym: [L., a small hollow or cavity,
dim. of alveus: cf. F. alvéole. See Alveary.]

1. A cell in a honeycomb.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small cavity in a coral, shell, or fossil

3. (Anat.)

Defn: A small depression, sac, or vesicle, as the socket of a tooth,
the air cells of the lungs, the ultimate saccules of glands, etc.

ALVEUS
Al"ve*us, n.; pl. Alvei. Etym: [L.]

Defn: The channel of a river. Weate.

ALVINE
Al"vine, a. Etym: [L. alvus belly: cf. F. alvin.]

Defn: Of, from, in, or pertaining to, the belly or the intestines;
as, alvine discharges; alvine concretions.

ALWAY
Al"way, adv.

Defn: Always. [Archaic or Poetic]
I would not live alway. Job vii. 16.

ALWAYS
Al"ways, adv. Etym: [All + way. The s is an adverbial (orig. a
genitive) ending.]

1. At all times; ever; perpetually; throughout all time; continually;
as, God is always the same.
Even in Heaven his [Mammon's] looks and thoughts. Milton.

2. Constancy during a certain period, or regularly at stated
intervals; invariably; uniformly; -- opposed to sometimes or
occasionally.
He always rides a black galloway. Bulwer.

ALYSSUM
A*lys"sum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of cruciferous plants; madwort. The sweet alyssum (A.
maritimum), cultivated for bouquets, bears small, white, sweet-
scented flowers.

AM
Am. Etym: [AS. am, eom, akin to Gothic im, Icel. em, Olr. am, Lith.
esmi, L. sum., Gr. ahmi, Skr. asmi, fr. a root as to be. Are, and cf.
Be, Was.]

Defn: The first person singular of the verb be, in the indicative
mode, present tense. See Be.
God said unto Moses, I am that am. Exod. iii. 14.

AMABILITY
Am`a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. amabilitas.]

Defn: Lovableness. Jer. Taylor.

Note: The New English Dictionary (Murray) says this word is "usefully
distinct from Amiability."

AMACRATIC
Am`a*crat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Photog.)

Defn: Amasthenic. Sir J. Herschel.

AMADAVAT
Am`a*da*vat", n. Etym: [Indian name. From Ahmedabad, a city from
which it was imported to Europe.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The strawberry finch, a small Indian song bird (Estrelda
amandava), commonly caged and kept for fighting. The female is olive
brown; the male, in summer, mostly crimson; -- called also red
waxbill. [Written also amaduvad and avadavat.]

AMADOU
Am"a*dou, n. Etym: [F. amadou tinder, prop. lure, bait, fr. amadouer
to allure, caress, perh. fr. Icel. mata to feed, which is akin to E.
meat.]

Defn: A spongy, combustible substance, prepared from fungus (Boletus
and Polyporus) which grows on old trees; German tinder; punk. It has
been employed as a styptic by surgeons, but its common use is as
tinder, for which purpose it is prepared by soaking it in a strong
solution of niter. Ure.

AMAIN
A*main", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + main. See 2d Main, n.]

1. With might; with full force; vigorously; violently; exceedingly.
They on the hill, which were not yet come to blows, perceiving the
fewness of their enemies, came down amain. Milton.
That striping giant, ill-bred and scoffing, shouts amain. T. Parker.

2. At full speed; in great haste; also, at once. "They fled amain."
Holinshed.

AMAIN
A*main", v. t. Etym: [F. amener. See Amenable.] (Naut.)

Defn: To lower, as a sail, a yard, etc.

AMAIN
A*main", v. i. (Naut.)

Defn: To lower the topsail, in token of surrender; to yield.

AMALGAM
A*mal"gam, n. Etym: [F. amalgame, prob. fr. L. malagma, Gr.

1. An alloy of mercury with another metal or metals; as, an amalgam
of tin, bismuth, etc.

Note: Medalists apply the term to soft alloys generally.

2. A mixture or compound of different things.

3. (Min.)

Defn: A native compound of mercury and silver.

AMALGAM
A*mal"gam, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. amalgamer]

Defn: To amalgamate. Boyle. B. Jonson.

AMALGAMA
A*mal"ga*ma, n.

Defn: Same as Amalgam.
They divided this their amalgama into a number of incoherent
republics. Burke.

AMALGAMATE
A*mal"ga*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amalgamated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Amalgamating.]

1. To compound or mix, as quicksilver, with another metal; to unite,
combine, or alloy with mercury.

2. To mix, so as to make a uniform compound; to unite or combine; as,
to amalgamate two races; to amalgamate one race with another.
Ingratitude is indeed their four cardinal virtues compacted and
amalgamated into one. Burke.

AMALGAMATE
A*mal"ga*mate, v. i.

1. To unite in an amalgam; to blend with another metal, as
quicksilver.

2. To coalesce, as a result of growth; to combine into a uniform
whole; to blend; as, two organs or parts amalgamate.

AMALGAMATE; AMALGAMATED
A*mal"ga*mate, A*mal"ga*ma`ted, a.

Defn: Coalesced; united; combined.

AMALGAMATION
A*mal`ga*ma"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. amalgamation.]

1. The act or operation of compounding mercury with another metal; --
applied particularly to the process of separating gold and silver
from their ores by mixing them with mercury. Ure.

2. The mixing or blending of different elements, races, societies,
etc.; also, the result of such combination or blending; a homogeneous
union. Macaulay.

AMALGAMATIVE
A*mal"ga*ma*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by amalgamation.

AMALGAMATOR
A*mal"ga*ma`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, amalgamates. Specifically: A machine
for separating precious metals from earthy particles by bringing them
in contact with a body of mercury with which they form an amalgam.

AMALGAMIZE
A*mal"ga*mize, v. t.

Defn: To amalgamate. [R.]

AMANDINE
A*man"dine, n. Etym: [F. amande almond. See Almond.]

1. The vegetable casein of almonds.

2. A kind of cold cream prepared from almonds, for chapped hands,
etc.

AMANITA
Am`a*ni"ta, n. [NL. See Amanitine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of poisonous fungi of the family Agaricaceæ,
characterized by having a volva, an annulus, and white spores. The
species resemble edible mushrooms, and are frequently mistaken for
them. Amanita muscaria, syn. Agaricus muscarius, is the fly amanita,
or fly agaric; and A. phalloides is the death cup.

AMANITINE
A*man"i*tine, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The poisonous principle of some fungi.

AMANUENSIS
A*man`u*en"sis, n.; pl. Amanuenses. Etym: [L., fr. a, ab + manus
hand.]

Defn: A person whose employment is to write what another dictates, or
to copy what another has written.

AMARACUS
A*mar"a*cus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: A fragrant flower. Tennyson.

AMARANT
Am"a*rant, n.

Defn: Amaranth, 1. [Obs.] Milton.

AMARANTACEOUS
Am`a*ran*ta"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which
the amaranth is the type.

AMARANTH
Am"a*ranth, n. Etym: [L. amarantus, Gr. mortal; -- so called because
its flowers do not soon wither: cf. F. amarante. The spelling with th
seems to be due to confusion with Gr.

1. An imaginary flower supposed never to fade. [Poetic]

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of ornamental annual plants (Amaranthus) of many
species, with green, purplish, or crimson flowers.

2. A color inclining to purple.

AMARANTHINE
Am`a*ran"thine, a.

1. Of or pertaining to amaranth. "Amaranthine bowers." Pope.

2. Unfading, as the poetic amaranth; undying.
They only amaranthine flower on earth Is virtue. Cowper.

3. Of a purplish color. Buchanan.

AMARANTHUS; AMARANTUS
Am`a*ran"thus, Am`a*ran"tus, n.

Defn: Same as Amaranth.

AMARINE
Am"a*rine, n. Etym: [L. amarus bitter.] (Chem.)

Defn: A characteristic crystalline substance, obtained from oil of
bitter almonds.

AMARITUDE
A*mar"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. amaritudo, fr. amarus bitter: cf. OF.
amaritude.]

Defn: Bitterness. [R.]

AMARYLLIDACEOUS; AMARYLLIDEOUS
Am`a*ryl`li*da"ceous, Am`a*ryl*lid"e*ous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants differing
from the lily family chiefly in having the ovary below the

AMARYLLIS
Am`a*ryl"lis, n. Etym: [L. Amaryllis, Gr.

1. A pastoral sweetheart.
To sport with Amaryllis in the shade. Milton.

2. (bot.)
(a) A family of plants much esteemed for their beauty, including the
narcissus, jonquil, daffodil, agave, and others.
(b) A genus of the same family, including the Belladonna lily.

AMASS
A*mass", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amassed; p. pr. & vb. n. Amassing.]
Etym: [F. ambusher, LL. amassare; L. ad + massa lump, mass. See
Mass.]

Defn: To collect into a mass or heap; to gather a great quantity of;
to accumulate; as, to amass a treasure or a fortune; to amass words
or phrases.
The life Homer has been written by amassing all the traditions and
hints the writers could meet with. Pope.

Syn.
 -- To accumulate; heap up; pile.

AMASS
A*mass", n. Etym: [OF. amasse, fr. ambusher.]

Defn: A mass; a heap. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

AMASSABLE
A*mass"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being amassed.

AMASSER
A*mass"er, n.

Defn: One who amasses.

AMASSETTE
A`mas`sette", n. Etym: [F. See Amass.]

Defn: An instrument of horn used for collecting painters' colors on
the stone in the process of grinding.

AMASSMENT
A*mass"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. amassement.]

Defn: An amassing; a heap collected; a large quantity or number
brought together; an accumulation.
An amassment of imaginary conceptions. Glanvill.

AMASTHENIC
Am`as*then"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Photog.)

Defn: Uniting the chemical rays of light into one focus, as a certain
kind of lens; amacratic.

AMATE
A*mate", v. t. Etym: [OF. amater, amatir.]

Defn: To dismay; to dishearten; to daunt. [Obs. or Archaic]
The Silures, to amate the new general, rumored the overthrow greater
than was true. Milton.

AMATE
A*mate", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + mate.]

Defn: To be a mate to; to match. [Obs.] Spenser.

AMATEUR
Am`a*teur", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. amator lover, fr. amare to love.]

Defn: A person attached to a particular pursuit, study, or science as
to music or painting; esp. one who cultivates any study or art, from
taste or attachment, without pursuing it professionally.

AMATEURISH
Am`a*teur"ish, a.

Defn: In the style of an amateur; superficial or defective like the
work of an amateur.
 -- Am`a*teur"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Am`a*teur"ish*ness, n.

AMATEURISM
Am"a*teur*ism, n.

Defn: The practice, habit, or work of an amateur.

AMATEURSHIP
Am"a*teur`ship, n.

Defn: The quality or character of an amateur.

AMATIVE
Am"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. amatus, p. p. of amare to love.]

Defn: Full of love; amatory.

AMATIVENESS
Am"a*tive*ness, n. (Phren.)

Defn: The faculty supposed to influence sexual desire; propensity to
love. Combe.

AMATORIAL
Am`a*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [See Amatorious.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a lover or to love making; amatory; as,
amatorial verses.

AMATORIALLY
Am`a*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an amatorial manner.

AMATORIAN
Am`a*to"ri*an, a.

Defn: Amatory. [R.] Johnson.

AMATORIOUS
Am`a*to"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. amatorius, fr. amare to love.]

Defn: Amatory. [Obs.] "Amatorious poem." Milton.

AMATORY
Am"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, producing, or expressing, sexual love; as,
amatory potions.

AMAUROSIS
Am`au*ro"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A loss or decay of sight, from loss of power in the optic
nerve, without any perceptible external change in the eye; -- called
also gutta serena, the "drop serene" of Milton.

AMAUROTIC
Am`au*rot"ic, a.

Defn: Affected with amaurosis; having the characteristics of
amaurosis.

AMAZE
A*maze", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amazed; p. pr. & vb. n. Amazing.] Etym:
[Pref. a- + maze.]

1. To bewilder; to stupefy; to bring into a maze. [Obs.]
A labyrinth to amaze his foes. Shak.

2. To confound, as by fear, wonder, extreme surprise; to overwhelm
with wonder; to astound; to astonish greatly. "Amazing Europe with
her wit." Goldsmith.
And all the people were amazed, and said, Is not this the son of
David Matt. xii. 23.

Syn.
 -- To astonish; astound; confound; bewilder; perplex; surprise.
 -- Amaze, Astonish. Amazement includes the notion of bewilderment of
difficulty accompanied by surprise. It expresses a state in which one
does not know what to do, or to say, or to think. Hence we are amazed
at what we can not in the least account for. Astonishment also
implies surprise. It expresses a state in which one is stunned by the
vastness or greatness of something, or struck with some degree of
horror, as when one is overpowered by the

AMAZE
A*maze", v. i.

Defn: To be astounded. [Archaic] B. Taylor.

AMAZE
A*maze", v. t.

Defn: Bewilderment, arising from fear, surprise, or wonder;
amazement. [Chiefly poetic]
The wild, bewildered Of one to stone converted by amaze. Byron.

AMAZEDLY
A*maz"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In amazement; with confusion or astonishment. Shak.

AMAZEDNESS
A*maz"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being amazed, or confounded with fear, surprise,
or wonder. Bp. Hall.

AMAZEFUL
A*maze"ful, a.

Defn: Full of amazement. [R.]

AMAZEMENT
A*maze"ment, n.

1. The condition of being amazed; bewilderment [Obs.]; overwhelming
wonder, as from surprise, sudden fear, horror, or admiration.
His words impression left Of much amazement. Milton.

2. Frenzy; madness. [Obs.] Webster (1661).

AMAZING
A*maz"ing, a.

Defn: Causing amazement; very wonderful; as, amazing grace.
 -- A*maz"ing*ly, adv.

AMAZON
Am"a*zon, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. One of a fabulous race of female warriors in Scythia; hence, a
female warrior.

2. A tall, strong, masculine woman; a virago.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name numerous species of South American parrots of the genus
Chrysotis Amazon ant (Zoöl.), a species of ant (Polyergus rufescens),
of Europe and America. They seize by conquest the larvæ and nymphs
other species and make slaves of them in their own nests.

AMAZONIAN
Am`a*zo"ni*an, a.

1. Pertaining to or resembling an Amazon; of masculine manners;
warlike. Shak.

2. Of or pertaining to the river Amazon in South America, or to its
valley.

AMAZONITE; AMAZON STONE
Am"a*zon*ite, Am"a*zon stone`, n. Etym: [Named from the river
Amazon.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of feldspar, having a verdigris-green color.

AMB-; AMBI-
Amb-, Am*bi-. Etym: [L. prefix ambi-, amb-, akin to Gr. abhi, AS.
embe, emb, OHG. umbi, umpi, G. um, and also L. ambo both. Cf. Amphi-,
Both, By.]

Defn: A prefix meaning about, around; -- used in words derived from
the Latin.

AMBAGES
Am*ba"ges, n. pl. Etym: [L. (usually in pl.); pref. ambi-, amb- +
agere to drive: cf. F. ambage.]

Defn: A circuit; a winding. Hence: Circuitous way or proceeding;
quibble; circumlocution; indirect mode of speech.
After many ambages, perspicuously define what this melancholy is.
Burton.

AMBAGINOUS
Am*bag"i*nous, a.

Defn: Ambagious. [R.]

AMBAGIOUS
Am*ba"gious, a. Etym: [L. ambagiosus.]

Defn: Circumlocutory; circuitous. [R.]

AMBAGITORY
Am*bag"i*to*ry, a.

Defn: Ambagious. [R.]

AMBARY; AMBARY HEMP
Am*ba"ry, n., or Ambary hemp. [Hind. ambara, ambari.]

Defn: A valuable East Indian fiber plant (Hibiscus cannabinus), or
its fiber, which is used throughout India for making ropes, cordage,
and a coarse canvas and sackcloth; --called also brown Indian hemp.

AMBASSADE; EMBASSADE
Am"bas*sade, Em"bas*sade, n. Etym: [F. ambassade. See Embassy.]

1. The mission of an ambassador. [Obs.] Carew.

2. An embassy. [Obs.] Strype.

AMBASSADOR; EMBASSADOR
Am*bas"sa*dor, Em*bas"sa*dor, n. Etym: [See Embassador.]

1. A minister of the highest rank sent a foreign court to represent
there his sovereign or country.

Note: Ambassador are either ordinary [or resident] or extraordinary,
that is, sent upon some special or unusual occasion or errand.
Abbott.

2. An official messenger and representative.

AMBASSADORIAL
Am*bas`sa*do"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an ambassador. H. Walpole.

AMBASSADORSHIP
Am*bas`sa*dor*ship, n.

Defn: The state, office, or functions of an ambassador.

AMBASSADRESS
Am*bas"sa*dress, n.

Defn: A female ambassador; also, the wife of an ambassador. Prescott.

AMBASSAGE
Am"bas*sage, n.

Defn: Same as Embassage. [Obs. or R.] Luke xiv. 32.

AMBASSY
Am"bas*sy, n.

Defn: See Embassy, the usual spelling. Helps.

AMBER
Am"ber, n. Etym: [OE. aumbre, F. ambre, Sp. ámbar, and with the Ar.
article, alámbar, fr. Ar. 'anbar ambergris.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A yellowish translucent resin resembling copal, found as a
fossil in alluvial soils, with beds of lignite, or on the seashore in
many places. It takes a fine polish, and is used for pipe
mouthpieces, beads, etc., and as a basis for a fine varnish. By
friction, it becomes strongly electric.

2. Amber color, or anything amber-colored; a clear light yellow; as,
the amber of the sky.

3. Ambergris. [Obs.]
You that smell of amber at my charge. Beau. & Fl.

4. The balsam, liquidambar. Black amber, and old and popular name for
jet.

AMBER
Am"ber, a.

1. Consisting of amber; made of amber. "Amber bracelets." Shak.

2. Resembling amber, especially in color; amber-colored. "The amber
morn." Tennyson.

AMBER
Am"ber, v. t. [p. p. & p. a. Ambered .]

1. To scent or flavor with ambergris; as, ambered wine.

2. To preserve in amber; as, an ambered fly.

AMBER FISH
Am"ber fish. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of the southern Atlantic coast (Seriola Carolinensis.)

AMBERGREASE
Am"ber*grease, n.

Defn: See Ambergris.

AMBERGRIS
Am"ber*gris, n. Etym: [F. ambre gris, i. e., gray amber; F. gris
gray, which is of German origin: cf. OS. grîs, G. greis, gray-haired.
See Amber.]

Defn: A substance of the consistence of wax, found floating in the
Indian Ocean and other parts of the tropics, and also as a morbid
secretion in the intestines of the sperm whale (Physeter
macrocephalus), which is believed to be in all cases its true origin.
In color it is white, ash-gray, yellow, or black, and often
variegated like marble. The floating masses are sometimes from sixty
to two hundred and twenty-five pounds in weight. It is wholly
volatilized as a white vapor at 212º Fahrenheit, and is highly valued
in perfumery. Dana.

AMBER ROOM
Am"ber room

Defn: A room formerly in the Czar's Summer Palace in Russia, which
was richly decorated with walls and fixtures made from amber.  The
amber was removed by occupying German troops during the Second World
War and has, as of 1997, never been recovered.  The room is being
recreated from old photographs by Russian artisans. PJC

AMBER SEED
Am"ber seed`.

Defn: Seed of the Hibiscus abelmoschus, somewhat resembling millet,
brought from Egypt and the West Indies, and having a flavor like that
of musk; musk seed. Chambers.

AMBER TREE
Am"ber tree`.

Defn: A species of Anthospermum, a shrub with evergreen leaves,
which, when bruised, emit a fragrant odor.

AMBES-AS
Ambes"-as, n.

Defn: Ambs-ace. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AMBIDEXTER
Am"bi*dex"ter, a. Etym: [LL., fr. L. ambo both + dexter right, dextra
(sc. manus) the right hand.]

Defn: Using both hands with equal ease. Smollett.

AMBIDEXTER
Am`bi*dex"ter, n.

1. A person who uses both hands with equal facility.

2. Hence; A double-dealer; one equally ready to act on either side in
party disputes.
The rest are hypocrites, ambidexters, so many turning pictures -- a
lion on one side, a lamb on the other. Burton.

3. (Law)

Defn: A juror who takes money from both parties for giving his
verdict. Cowell.

AMBIDEXTERITY
Am"bi*dex*ter"i*ty, n.

1. The quality of being ambidexas, ambidexterity of argumentation.
Sterne.
Ignorant I was of the human frame, and of its latent powers, as
regarded speed, force, and ambidexterity. De Quincey.

2. Double-dealing. (Law)

Defn: A juror's taking of money from the both parties for a verdict.

AMBIDEXTRAL
Am`bi*dex"tral, a.

Defn: Pertaining equally to the right-hand side and the left-hand
side. Earle.

AMBIDEXTROUS
Am`bi*dex"trous, a.

1. Pertaining the faculty of using both hands with equal ease. Sir T.
Browne.

2. Practicing or siding with both parties.
All false, shuffling, and ambidextrous dealings. L'Estrange.

AMBIDEXTROUSLY
Am"bi*dex"trous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ambidextrous manner; cunningly.

AMBIDEXTROUSNESS
Am`bi*dex"trous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being ambidextrous; ambidexterity.

AMBIENT
Am"bi*ent, a. Etym: [L. ambiens, p. pr. of ambire to go around; amb-
+ ire to go.]

Defn: Encompassing on all sides; circumfused; investing. "Ambient
air." Milton. "Ambient clouds." Pope.

AMBIENT
Am"bi*ent, n.

Defn: Something that surrounds or invests; as, air . . . being a
perpetual ambient. Sir H. Wotton.

AMBIGENOUS
Am*big"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. ambo both + genus kind.]

Defn: Of two kinds. (Bot.)

Defn: Partaking of two natures, as the perianth of some endogenous
plants, where the outer surface is calycine, and the inner petaloid.

AMBIGU
Am"bi*gu, n. Etym: [F., fr. ambigu doubtful, L. ambiquus. See
Ambiguous.]

Defn: An entertainment at which a medley of dishes is set on at the
same time.

AMBIGUITY
Am`bi*gu"i*ty, n.; pl. Ambiguities. Etym: [L. ambiguitas, fr.
ambiguus: cf. F. ambiguité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being ambiguous; doubtfulness or
uncertainty, particularly as to the signification of language,
arising from its admitting of more than one meaning; an equivocal
word or expression.
No shadow of ambiguity can rest upon the course to be pursued. I.
Taylor.
The words are of single signification, without any ambiguity. South.

AMBIGUOUS
Am*big"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. ambiguus, fr. ambigere to wander about,
waver; amb- + agere to drive.]

Defn: Doubtful or uncertain, particularly in respect to
signification; capable of being understood in either of two or more
possible senses; equivocal; as, an ambiguous course; an ambiguous
expression.
What have been thy answers What but dark, Ambiguous, and with double
sense deluding Milton.

Syn.
 -- Doubtful; dubious; uncertain; unsettled; indistinct;
indeterminate; indefinite. See Equivocal.

AMBIGUOUSLY
Am*big"u*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ambiguous manner; with doubtful meaning.

AMBIGUOUSNESS
Am*big"u*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Ambiguity.

AMBILEVOUS
Am`bi*le"vous, a. Etym: [L. ambo both + laevus left.]

Defn: Left-handed on both sides; clumsy; -- opposed to ambidexter.
[R.] Sir T. Browne.

AMBILOQUY
Am*bil"o*quy, n.

Defn: Doubtful or ambiguous language. [Obs.] Bailey.

AMBIPAROUS
Am*bip"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. ambo both + parere to bring forth.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Characterized by containing the rudiments of both flowers and
leaves; -- applied to a bud.

AMBIT
Am"bit, n. Etym: [L. ambitus circuit, fr. ambire to go around. See
Ambient.]

Defn: Circuit or compass.
His great parts did not live within a small ambit. Milward.

AMBITION
Am*bi"tion, n. Etym: [F. ambition, L. ambitio a going around,
especially of candidates for office is Rome, to solicit votes (hence,
desire for office or honorambire to go around. See Ambient, Issue.]

1. The act of going about to solicit or obtain an office, or any
other object of desire; canvassing. [Obs.]
[I] used no ambition to commend my deeds. Milton.

2. An eager, and sometimes an inordinate, desire for preferment,
honor, superiority, power, or the attainment of something.
Cromwell, I charge thee, fling a way ambition: By that sin fell the
angels. Shak.
The pitiful ambition of possessing five or six thousand more acres.
Burke.

AMBITION
Am*bi"tion, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. ambitionner.]

Defn: To seek after ambitiously or eagerly; to covet. [R.]
Pausanias, ambitioning the sovereignty of Greece, bargains with
Xerxes for his daughter in marriage. Trumbull.

AMBITIONIST
Am*bi"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One excessively ambitious. [R.]

AMBITIONLESS
Am*bi"tion*less, a.

Defn: Devoid of ambition. Pollok.

AMBITIOUS
Am*bi"tious, a. Etym: [L. ambitiosus: cf. F. ambitieux. See
Ambition.]

1. Possessing, or controlled by, ambition; greatly or inordinately
desirous of power, honor, office, superiority, or distinction.
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious, And Brutus is an honorable man.
Shak.

2. Strongly desirous; -- followed by of or the infinitive; as,
ambitious to be or to do something.
I was not ambitious of seeing this ceremony. Evelyn.
Studious of song, and yet ambitious not to sing in vain. Cowper.

3. Springing from, characterized by, or indicating, ambition; showy;
aspiring; as, an ambitious style.
A giant statue . . . Pushed by a wild and artless race, From off
wide, ambitious base. Collins.

AMBITIOUSLY
Am*bi"tious*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ambitious manner.

AMBITIOUSNESS
Am*bi"tious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being ambitious; ambition; pretentiousness.

AMBITUS
Am"bi*tus, n. Etym: [L. See Ambit, Ambition.]

1. The exterior edge or border of a thing, as the border of a leaf,
or the outline of a bivalve shell.

2. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A canvassing for votes.

AMBLE
Am"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ambled; p. pr. & vb. n. Ambling.] Etym:
[F. ambler to amble, fr. L. ambulare to walk, in LL., to amble, perh.
fr. amb-, ambi-, and a root meaning to go: cf. Gr. base. Cf.
Ambulate.]

1. To go at the easy gait called an amble; -- applied to the horse or
to its rider.

2. To move somewhat like an ambling horse; to go easily or without
hard shocks.
The skipping king, he ambled up and down. Shak.
Sir, your wit ambles well; it goes easily. Shak.

AMBLE
Am"ble, n.

1. A peculiar gait of a horse, in which both legs on the same side
are moved at the same time, alternating with the legs on the other
side. "A fine easy amble." B. Jonson.

2. A movement like the amble of a horse.

AMBLER
Am"bler, n.

Defn: A horse or a person that ambles.

AMBLINGLY
Am"bling*ly, adv.

Defn: With an ambling gait.

AMBLOTIC
Am*blot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Tending to cause abortion.

AMBLYGON
Am"bly*gon, n. Etym: [Gr. amblygone.] (Geom.)

Defn: An obtuse-angled figure, esp. and obtuse-angled triangle.
[Obs.]

AMBLYGONAL
Am*blyg"o*nal, a.

Defn: Obtuse-angled. [Obs.] Hutton.

AMBLYOPIA; AMBLYOPY
Am`bly*o"pi*a, Am"bly*o`py, n. Etym: [Gr. amblyopie.] (Med.)

Defn: Weakness of sight, without and opacity of the cornea, or of the
interior of the eye; the first degree of amaurosis.

AMBLYOPIC
Am"bly*op"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to amblyopy. Quain.

AMBLYPODA
Am*blyp"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A group of large, extinct, herbivorous mammals, common in the
Tertiary formation of the United States.

AMBO
Am"bo, n.; pl. Ambos. Etym: [LL. ambo, Gr. ambon.]

Defn: A large pulpit or reading desk, in the early Christian
churches. Gwilt.

AMBON
Am"bon, n.

Defn: Same as Ambo.

AMBOYNA BUTTON
Am*boy"na but"ton. (Med.)

Defn: A chronic contagious affection of the skin, prevalent in the
tropics.

AMBOYNA PINE
Amboyna pine. (Bot.)

Defn: The resiniferous tree Agathis Dammara, of the Moluccas.

AMBOYNA WOOD
Am*boy"na wood.

Defn: A beautiful mottled and curled wood, used in cabinetwork. It is
obtained from the Pterocarpus Indicus of Amboyna, Borneo, etc.

AMBREATE
Am"bre*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt formed by the combination of ambreic acid with a base or
positive radical.

AMBREIC
Am*bre"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to ambrein; -- said of a certain acid produced
by digesting ambrein in nitric acid.

AMBREIN
Am"bre*in, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ambréine. See Amber.] (Chem.)

Defn: A fragrant substance which is the chief constituent of
ambergris.

AMBRITE
Am"brite, n. Etym: [From amber.]

Defn: A fossil resin occurring in large masses in New Zealand.

AMBROSE
Am"brose, n.

Defn: A sweet-scented herb; ambrosia. See Ambrosia, 3. Turner.

AMBROSIA
Am*bro"sia, n. Etym: [L. ambrosia, Gr. mrita, L. mortuus, dead, and
to E. mortal.]

1. (Myth.)
(a) The fabled food of the gods (as nectar was their drink), which
conferred immortality upon those who partook of it.
(b) An unguent of the gods.
His dewy locks distilled ambrosia. Milton.

2. A perfumed unguent, salve, or draught; something very pleasing to
the taste or smell. Spenser.

3. Formerly, a kind of fragrant plant; now (Bot.), a genus of plants,
including some coarse and worthless weeds, called ragweed, hogweed,
etc.

AMBROSIA BEETLE
Ambrosia beetle. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bark beetle that feeds on ambrosia.

AMBROSIAC
Am"bro"si*ac, a. Etym: [L. ambrosiacus: cf. F. ambrosiaque.]

Defn: Having the qualities of ambrosia; delicious. [R.]"Ambrosiac
odors." B. Jonson.

AMBROSIAL
Am*bro"sial, a. Etym: [L. ambrosius, Gr.

1. Consisting of, or partaking of the nature of, ambrosia; delighting
the taste or smell; delicious. "Ambrosial food." "Ambrosial
fragrance." Milton.

2. Divinely excellent or beautiful. "Shakes his ambrosial curls."
Pope.

AMBROSIALLY
Am*bro"sial*ly, adv.

Defn: After the manner of ambrosia; delightfully. "Smelt
ambrosially." Tennyson.

AMBROSIAN
Am*bro"sian, a.

Defn: Ambrosial. [R.] . Jonson.

AMBROSIAN
Am*bro"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to St. Ambrose; as, the Ambrosian office, or
ritual, a formula of worship in the church of Milan, instituted by
St. Ambrose. Ambrosian chant, the mode of signing or chanting
introduced by St. Ambrose in the 4th century.

AMBROSIN
Am"bro*sin, n. Etym: [LL. Ambrosinus nummus.]

Defn: An early coin struck by the dukes of Milan, and bearing the
figure of St. Ambrose on horseback.

AMBROTYPE
Am"bro*type, n. Etym: [Gr. -type.] (Photog.)

Defn: A picture taken on a place of prepared glass, in which the
lights are represented in silver, and the shades are produced by a
dark background visible through the unsilvered portions of the glass.

AMBRY
Am"bry, n.; pl. Ambries. Etym: [OE. aumbry, almery, OF. almarie,
armarie, aumaire, F. armoire, LL. armarium chest, cupboard, orig. a
repository for arms, fr. L. arama arms. The word has been confused
with almonry. See Armory.]

1. In churches, a kind of closet, niche, cupboard, or locker for
utensils, vestments, etc.

2. A store closet, as a pantry, cupboard, etc.

3. Almonry. [Improperly so used]

AMBS-ACE
Ambs"-ace, n. Etym: [OF. ambesas; ambes both (fr. L. ambo) + as ace.
See Ace.]

Defn: Double aces, the lowest throw of all at dice. Hence: Bad luck;
anything of no account or value.

AMBULACRAL
Am`bu*la"cral, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to ambulacra; avenuelike; as, the ambulacral
ossicles, plates, spines, and suckers of echinoderms.

AMBULACRIFORM
Am`bu*la"cri*form, a. Etym: [Ambulacrum + -form] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the form of ambulacra.

AMBULACRUM
Am`bu*la"crum, n.; pl. Ambulacra. Etym: [L., an alley or covered
way.] (Zoöl.)
(a) One of the radical zones of echinoderms, along which run the
principal nerves, blood vessels, and water tubes. These zones usually
bear rows of locomotive suckers or tentacles, which protrude from
regular pores. In star fishes they occupy the grooves along the under
side of the rays.
(b) One of the suckers on the feet of mites.

AMBULANCE
Am"bu*lance, n. Etym: [F. ambulance, hôpital ambulant, fr. L.
ambulare to walk. See Amble.] (Mil.)
(a) A field hospital, so organized as to follow an army in its
movements, and intended to succor the wounded as soon as possible.
Often used adjectively; as, an ambulance wagon; ambulance stretcher;
ambulance corps.
(b) An ambulance wagon or cart for conveying the wounded from the
field, or to a hospital.

AMBULANT
Am"bu*lant, a. Etym: [L. ambulans, p. pr. of ambulare to walk: cf. F.
ambulant.]

Defn: Walking; moving from place to place. Gayton.

AMBULATE
Am"bu*late, v. i. Etym: [L. ambulare to walk. See Amble.]

Defn: To walk; to move about. [R.] Southey.

AMBULATION
Am`bu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. ambulatio.]

Defn: The act of walking. Sir T. Browne.

AMBULATIVE
Am"bu*la*tive, a.

Defn: Walking. [R.]

AMBULATOR
Am"bu*la`tor, n.

1. One who walks about; a walker.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A beetle of the genus Lamia.
(b) A genus of birds, or one of this genus.

3. An instrument for measuring distances; -- called also
perambulator. Knight.

AMBULATORIAL
Am`bu*la*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Ambulatory; fitted for walking. Verrill.

AMBULATORY
Am"bu*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. ambulatorius.]

1. Of or pertaining to walking; having the faculty of walking; formed
or fitted for walking; as, an ambulatory animal.

2. Accustomed to move from place to place; not stationary; movable;
as, an ambulatory court, which exercises its jurisdiction in
different places.
The priesthood . . . before was very ambulatory, and dispersed into
all families. Jer. Taylor.

3. Pertaining to a walk. [R.]
The princess of whom his majesty had an ambulatory view in his
travels. Sir H. Wotton.

4. (Law)

Defn: Not yet fixed legally, or settled past alteration; alterable;
as, the dispositions of a will are ambulatory until the death of the
testator.

AMBULATORY
Am"bu*la*to*ry, n.; pl. Ambulatories. Etym: [Cf. LL. ambulatorium.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A place to walk in, whether in the open air, as the gallery of
a cloister, or within a building.

AMBURRY
Am"bur*ry, n.

Defn: Same as Anbury.

AMBUSCADE
Am`bus*cade", n. Etym: [F. embuscade, fr. It. imboscata, or Sp.
emboscada, fr. emboscar to ambush, fr. LL. imboscare. See Ambush, v.
t.]

1. A lying in a wood, concealed, for the purpose of attacking an
enemy by surprise. Hence: A lying in wait, and concealed in any
situation, for a like purpose; a snare laid for an enemy; an ambush.

2. A place in which troops lie hid, to attack an enemy unexpectedly.
[R.] Dryden.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: The body of troops lying in ambush.

AMBUSCADE
Am`bus*cade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ambuscaded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ambuscading.]

1. To post or conceal in ambush; to ambush.

2. To lie in wait for, or to attack from a covert or lurking place;
to waylay.

AMBUSCADE
Am`bus*cade", v. i.

Defn: To lie in ambush.

AMBUSCADO
Am`bus*ca"do, n.

Defn: Ambuscade. [Obs.] Shak.

AMBUSCADOED
Am`bus*ca"doed, p. p.

Defn: Posted in ambush; ambuscaded. [Obs.]

AMBUSH
Am"bush, n. Etym: [F. embûche, fr. the verb. See Ambush, v. t.]

1. A disposition or arrangement of troops for attacking an enemy
unexpectedly from a concealed station. Hence: Unseen peril; a device
to entrap; a snare.
Heaven, whose high walls fear no assault or siege Or ambush from the
deep. Milton.

2. A concealed station, where troops or enemies lie in wait to attack
by surprise.
Bold in close ambush, base in open field. Dryden.

3. The troops posted in a concealed place, for attacking by surprise;
liers in wait. [Obs.]
The ambush arose quickly out of their place. Josh. viii. 19.
To lay an ambush, to post a force in ambush.

AMBUSH
Am"bush, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ambushed; p. pr. & vb. n. Ambushing.]
Etym: [OE. enbussen, enbushen, OF. embushier, embuissier, F.
embûcher, embusquer, fr. LL. imboscare; in + LL. boscus, buscus, a
wood; akin to G. bush, E. bush. See Ambuscade, Bu.]

1. To station in ambush with a view to surprise an enemy.
By ambushed men behind their temple Dryden.

2. To attack by ambush; to waylay.

AMBUSH
Am"bush, v. i.

Defn: To lie in wait, for the purpose of attacking by surprise; to
lurk.
Nor saw the snake that ambushed for his prey. Trumbull.

AMBUSHER
Am"bush*er, n.

Defn: One lying in ambush.

AMBUSHMENT
Am"bush*ment, n. Etym: [OF. embuschement. See Ambush, v. t.]

Defn: An ambush. [Obs.] 2 Chron. xiii. 13.

AMBUSTION
Am*bus"tion, n. Etym: [L. ambustio.] (Med.)

Defn: A burn or scald. Blount.

AMEBEAN
Am`e*be"an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Am.

AMEER; AMIR
A*meer", A*mir", n. Etym: [See Emir.]

1. Emir. [Obs.]

2. One of the Mohammedan nobility of Afghanistan and Scinde.

AMEL
Am"el, n. Etym: [OE. amell, OF. esmail, F. émail, of German origin;
cf. OHG. smelzi, G. schmelz. See Smelt, v. t.]

Defn: Enamel. [Obs.] Boyle.

AMEL
Am"el, v. t. Etym: [OE. amellen, OF. esmailler, F. émailler, OF.
esmail, F. émail.]

Defn: To enamel. [Obs.]
Enlightened all with stars, And richly ameled. Chapman.

AMELCORN
Am"el*corn`, n. Etym: [Ger. amelkorn: cf. MHG. amel, amer, spelt, and
L. amylum starch, Gr.

Defn: A variety of wheat from which starch is produced; -- called
also French rice.

AMELIORABLE
A*mel"io*ra*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being ameliorated.

AMELIORATE
A*mel"io*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ameliorated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ameliorating.] Etym: [L. ad + meliorare to make better: cf. F.
améliorer. See Meliorate.]

Defn: To make better; to improve; to meliorate.
In every human being there is a wish to ameliorate his own condition.
Macaulay.

AMELIORATE
A*mel"io*rate, v. i.

Defn: To grow better; to meliorate; as, wine ameliorates by age.

AMELIORATION
A*mel`io*ra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. amélioration.]

Defn: The act of ameliorating, or the state of being ameliorated;
making or becoming better; improvement; melioration. "Amelioration of
human affairs." J. S. Mill.

AMELIORATIVE
A*mel"io*ra*tive, a.

Defn: Tending to ameliorate; producing amelioration or improvement;
as, ameliorative remedies, efforts.

AMELIORATOR
A*mel"io*ra`tor, n.

Defn: One who ameliorates.

AMEN
A`men", interj., adv., & n. Etym: [L. amen, Gr. am certainly, truly.]

Defn: An expression used at the end of prayers, and meaning, So be
it. At the end of a creed, it is a solemn asseveration of belief.
When it introduces a declaration, it is equivalent to truly, verily.
It is used as a noun, to demote: (a) concurrence in belief, or in a
statement; assent; (b) the final word or act; (c) Christ as being one
who is true and faithful.
And let all the people say, Amen. Ps. cvi. 48.
Amen, amen, I say to thee, except a man be born again, he can not see
the kingdom of God. John ii. 3. Rhemish Trans.
To say amen to, to approve warmly; to concur in heartily or
emphatically; to ratify; as, I say Amen to all.

AMEN
A`men", v. t.

Defn: To say Amen to; to sanction fully.

AMENABILITY
A*me`na*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being amenable; amenableness. Coleridge.

AMENABLE
A*me"na*ble, a. Etym: [F. amener to lead; ad) = mener to lead, fr. L.
minare to drive animals (properly by threatening cries), in LL. to
lead; L. minari, to threaten, minae threats. See Menace.]

1. (Old Law)

Defn: Easy to be led; governable, as a woman by her husband. [Obs.]
Jacob.

2. Liable to be brought to account or punishment; answerable;
responsible; accountable; as, amenable to law.
Nor is man too diminutive . . . to be amenable to the divine
government. I. Taylor.

3. Liable to punishment, a charge, a claim, etc.

4. Willing to yield or submit; responsive; tractable.
Sterling . . . always was amenable enough to counsel. Carlyle.

AMENABLENESS
A*me"na*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being amenable; liability to answer
charges; answerableness.

AMENABLY
A*me"na*bly, adv.

Defn: In an amenable manner.

AMENAGE
Am"e*nage, v. t. Etym: [OF. amesnagier. See Manage.]

Defn: To manage. [Obs.] Spenser.

AMENANCE
Am"e*nance, n. Etym: [OF. See Amenable.]

Defn: Behavior; bearing. [Obs.] Spenser.

AMEND
A*mend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amended; p. pr. & vb. n. Amending.]
Etym: [F. amender, L. emendare; e(ex) + mendum, menda, fault, akin to
Skr. minda personal defect. Cf. Emend, Mend.]

Defn: To change or modify in any way for the better; as,
(a) by simply removing what is erroneous, corrupt, superfluous,
faulty, and the like;
(b) by supplying deficiencies;
(c) by substituting something else in the place of what is removed;
to rectify.
Mar not the thing that can not be amended. Shak.
An instant emergency, granting no possibility for revision, or
opening for amended thought. De Quincey.
We shall cheer her sorrows, and amend her blood, by wedding her to a
Norman. Sir W. Scott.
To amend a bill, to make some change in the details or provisions of
a bill or measure while on its passage, professedly for its
improvement.

Syn.
 -- To Amend, Emend, Correct, Reform, Rectify. These words agree in
the idea of bringing things into a more perfect state. We correct
(literally, make straight) when we conform things to some standard or
rule; as, to correct proof sheets. We amend by removing blemishes,
faults, or errors, and thus rendering a thing more a nearly perfect;
as, to amend our ways, to amend a text, the draft of a bill, etc.
Emend is only another form of amend, and is applied chiefly to
editions of books, etc. To reform is literally to form over again, or
put into a new and better form; as, to reform one's life. To rectify
is to make right; as, to rectify a mistake, to rectify abuses,
inadvertencies, etc.

AMEND
A*mend", v. i.

Defn: To grow better by rectifying something wrong in manners or
morals; to improve. "My fortune . . . amends." Sir P. Sidney.

AMENDABLE
A*mend"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being amended; as, an amendable writ or error.
 -- A*mend"a*ble*ness, n.

AMENDATORY
A*mend"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Supplying amendment; corrective; emendatory. Bancroft.

AMENDE
A`mende", n. Etym: [F. See Amend.]

Defn: A pecuniary punishment or fine; a reparation or recantation.
Amende honorable(#). (Old French Law) A species of infamous
punishment in which the offender, being led into court with a rope
about his neck, and a lighted torch in his hand, begged pardon of his
God, the court, etc. In popular language, the phrase now denotes a
public apology or recantation, and reparation to an injured party,
for improper language or treatment.

AMENDER
A*mend"er, n.

Defn: One who amends.

AMENDFUL
A*mend"ful, a.

Defn: Much improving. [Obs.]

AMENDMENT
A*mend"ment, n. Etym: [F. amendement, LL. amendamentum.]

1. An alteration or change for the better; correction of a fault or
of faults; reformation of life by quitting vices.

2. In public bodies; Any alternation made or proposed to be made in a
bill or motion by adding, changing, substituting, or omitting.

3. (Law)

Defn: Correction of an error in a writ or process.

Syn.
 -- Improvement; reformation; emendation.

AMENDS
A*mends", n. sing. & pl. Etym: [F. amendes, pl. of amende. Cf.
Amende.]

Defn: Compensation for a loss or injury; recompense; reparation. [Now
const. with sing. verb.] "An honorable amends." Addison.
Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends. Shak.

AMENITY
A*men"i*ty, n.; pl. Amenities. Etym: [F. aménité, L. amoenitas, fr.
amoenus pleasant.]

Defn: The quality of being pleasant or agreeable, whether in respect
to situation, climate, manners, or disposition; pleasantness;
civility; suavity; gentleness.
A sweetness and amenity of temper. Buckle.
This climate has not seduced by its amenities. W. Howitt.

AMENORRHOEA
A*men`or*rhoe"a, n. Etym: [Gr. aménorrhée.] (Med.)

Defn: Retention or suppression of the menstrual discharge.

AMENORRHOEAL
A*men`or*rhoe"al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to amenorrhoea.

A MENSA ET THORO
A men"sa et tho"ro. Etym: [L., from board and bed.] (Law)

Defn: A kind of divorce which does not dissolve the marriage bond,
but merely authorizes a separate life of the husband and wife.
Abbott.

AMENT
Am"ent, n. Etym: [L. amentum thong or strap.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of inflorescence; a catkin.
The globular ament of a buttonwood. Coues.

AMENTACEOUS
Am`en*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [LL. amentaceus.] (Bot.)
(a) Resembling, or consisting of, an ament or aments; as, the
chestnut has an amentaceous inflorescence.
(b) Bearing aments; having flowers arranged in aments; as,
amentaceous plants.

AMENTIA
A*men"ti*a, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: Imbecility; total want of understanding.

AMENTIFEROUS
Am`en*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. amentum + -ferous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing catkins. Balfour.

AMENTIFORM
A*men"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. amentum + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a catkin.

AMENTUM
A*men"tum, n.; pl. Amenta.

Defn: Same as Ament.

AMENUSE
Am"e*nuse, v. t. Etym: [OF. amenuisier. See Minute.]

Defn: To lessen. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AMERCE
A*merce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amerced; p. pr. & vb. n. Amercing.]
Etym: [OF. amercier, fr. a merci at the mercy of, liable to a
punishment. See Mercy.]

1. To punish by a pecuniary penalty, the amount of which is not fixed
by law, but left to the discretion of the court; as, the amerced the
criminal in the sum on the hundred dollars.

Note: The penalty of fine may be expressed without a preposition, or
it may be introduced by in, with, or of.

2. To punish, in general; to mulct.
Millions of spirits for his fault amerced Of Heaven. Milton.
Shall by him be amerced with penance due. Spenser.

AMERCEABLE
A*merce"a*ble, a.

Defn: Liable to be amerced.

AMERCEMENT
A*merce"ment, n. Etym: [OF. amerciment.]

Defn: The infliction of a penalty at the discretion of the court;
also, a mulct or penalty thus imposed. It differs from a fine,in that
the latter is, or was originally, a fixed and certain sum prescribed
by statue for an offense; but an amercement is arbitrary. Hence, the
act or practice of affeering. [See Affeer.] Blackstone.

Note: This word, in old books, is written amerciament. Amercement
royal, a penalty imposed on an officer for a misdemeanor in his
office. Jacobs.

AMERCER
A*mer"cer, n.

Defn: One who amerces.

AMERCIAMENT
A*mer"cia*ment, n. Etym: [LL. amerciamentum.]

Defn: Same as Amercement. Mozley & W.

AMERICAN
A*mer"i*can, a. Etym: [Named from Americus Vespucius.]

1. Of or pertaining to America; as, the American continent: American
Indians.

2. Of or pertaining to the United States. "A young officer of the
American navy." Lyell. American ivy. See Virginia creeper.
 -- American Party (U. S. Politics), a party, about 1854, which
opposed the influence of foreign-born citizens, and those supposed to
owe allegiance to a foreign power.
 -- Native american Party (U. S. Politics), a party of principles
similar to those of the American party. It arose about 1843, but soon
died out.

AMERICAN
A*mer"i*can, n.

Defn: A native of America; -- originally applied to the aboriginal
inhabitants, but now applied to the descendants of Europeans born in
America, and especially to the citizens of the United States.
The name American must always exalt the pride of patriotism.
Washington.

AMERICANISM
A*mer"i*can*ism, n.

1. Attachment to the United States.

2. A custom peculiar to the United States or to America; an American
characteristic or idea.

3. A word or phrase peculiar to the United States.

AMERICANIZATION
A*mer`i*can*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The process of Americanizing.

AMERICANIZE
A*mer"i*can*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Americanizer; p. pr. & vb. n.
Americanizing.]

Defn: To render American; to assimilate to the Americans in customs,
ideas, etc.; to stamp with American characteristics.

AMERICAN PLAN
A*mer"i*can plan.

Defn: In hotels, aplan upon which guests pay for both room and board
by the day, week, or other convenient period; -- contrasted with
European plan.

AMERICAN PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION
A*mer"i*can Pro*tect"ive As*so`ci*a"tion.

Defn: A secret organization in the United States, formed in Iowa in
1887, ostensibly for the protection of American institutions by
keeping Roman Catholics out of public office. Abbrev. commonly to A.
P .A.

AMES-ACE
Ames"-ace, n.

Defn: Same as Ambs-ace.

AMESS
Am"ess, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: Amice, a hood or cape. See 2d Amice.

AMETABOLA
Am`e*tab"o*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of insects which do not undergo any metamorphosis.
[Written also Ametabolia.]

AMETABOLIAN
A*met`a*bo"li*an, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to insects that do undergo any metamorphosis.

AMETABOLIC; AMETABOLOUS
A*met`a*bol"ic, Am`e*tab"o*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Not undergoing any metamorphosis; as, ametabolic insects.

AMETHODIST
A*meth"o*dist, n. Etym: [Pref. a- not + methodist.]

Defn: One without method; a quack. [Obs.]

AMETHYST
Am"e*thyst, Etym: [F. ametiste, amatiste, F. améthyste, L.
amethystus, fr. Gr. Mead.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of crystallized quartz, of a purple or bluish violet
color, of different shades. It is much used as a jeweler's stone.
Oriental amethyst, the violet-blue variety of transparent
crystallized corundum or sapphire.

2. (Her.)

Defn: A purple color in a nobleman's escutcheon, or coat of arms.

AMETHYSTINE
Am`e*thys"tine, a. Etym: [L. amethystinus, Gr.

1. Resembling amethyst, especially in color; bluish violet.

2. Composed of, or containing, amethyst.

AMETROPIA
Am`e*tro"pi*a, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Any abnormal condition of the refracting powers of the eye.
 -- Am`e*trop"ic, a.

AMHARIC
Am*har"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Amhara, a division of Abyssinia; as, the
Amharic language is closely allied to the Ethiopic.
 -- n.

Defn: The Amharic language (now the chief language of Abyssinia).

AMIA
Am"i*a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fresh-water ganoid fishes, exclusively confined to
North America; called bowfin in Lake Champlain, dogfish in Lake Erie,
and mudfish in South Carolina, etc. See Bowfin.

AMIABILITY
A`mi*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being amiable; amiableness; sweetness of
disposition.
Every excellency is a degree of amiability. Jer. Taylor.

AMIABLE
A"mi*a*ble, a. Etym: [F. amiable, L. amicabilis friendly, fr. amicus
friend, fr. amare to love. The meaning has been influenced by F.
aimable, L. amabilis lovable, fr. amare to love. Cf. Amicable,
Amorous, Amability.]

1. Lovable; lovely; pleasing. [Obs. or R.]
So amiable a prospect. Sir T. Herbert.

2. Friendly; kindly; sweet; gracious; as, an amiable temper or mood;
amiable ideas.

3. Possessing sweetness of disposition; having sweetness of temper,
kind-heartedness, etc., which causes one to be liked; as, an amiable
woman.

4. Done out of love. [Obs.]
Lay an amiable siege to the honesty of this Ford's wife. Shak.

AMIABLENESS
A`mi*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being amiable; amiability.

AMIABLY
A"mi*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an amiable manner.

AMIANTH
Am"i*anth, n.

Defn: See Amianthus. [Poetic]

AMIANTHIFORM
Am`i*an"thi*form, a. Etym: [Amianthus + -form.]

Defn: Resembling amianthus in form.

AMIANTHOID
Am`i*an"thoid, a. Etym: [Amianthus + -oid: cf. F. amiantoïde.]

Defn: Resembling amianthus.

AMIANTHUS
Am`i*an"thus, n. Etym: [L. amiantus, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Earth flax, or mountain flax; a soft silky variety of asbestus.

AMIC
Am"ic, a. Etym: [L. ammonia + -ic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Related to, or derived, ammonia; -- used chiefly as a suffix;
as, amic acid; phosphamic acid. Amic acid (Chem.), one of a class of
nitrogenized acids somewhat resembling amides.

AMICABILITY
Am`i*ca*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being amicable; friendliness; amicableness. Ash.

AMICABLE
Am"i*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. amicabilis, fr. amicus friend, fr. amare to
love. See Amiable.]

Defn: Friendly; proceeding from, or exhibiting, friendliness; after
the manner of friends; peaceable; as, an amicable disposition, or
arrangement.
That which was most remarkable in this contest was . . . the amicable
manner in which it was managed. Prideoux.
Amicable action (Law.), an action commenced and prosecuted by
amicable consent of the parties, for the purpose of obtaining a
decision of the court on some matter of law involved in it. Bouvier.
Burrill.
 -- Amicable numbers (Math.), two numbers, each of which is equal to
the sum of all the aliquot parts of the other.

Syn.
 -- Friendly; peaceable; kind; harmonious.
 -- Amicable, Friendly. Neither of these words denotes any great
warmth of affection, since friendly has by no means the same strength
as its noun friendship. It does, however, imply something of real
cordiality; while amicable supposes very little more than that the
parties referred to are not disposed to quarrel. Hence, we speak of
amicable relations between two countries, an amicable adjustment of
difficulties. "Those who entertain friendly feelings toward each
other can live amicably together."

AMICABLENESS
Am"i*ca*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being amicable; amicability.

AMICABLY
Am"i*ca*bly, adv.

Defn: In an amicable manner.

AMICE
Am"ice, n. Etym: [OE. amyse, prob. for amyt, OF. amit, ameit, fr. L.
amictus cloak, the word being confused with amice, almuce, a hood or
cape. See next word.]

Defn: A square of white linen worn at first on the head, but now
about the neck and shoulders, by priests of the Roman Catholic Church
while saying Mass.

AMICE
Am"ice, n. Etym: [OE. amuce, amisse, OF. almuce, aumuce, F. aumusse,
LL. almucium, almucia, aumucia: of unknown origin; cf. G. mütze cap,
prob. of the same origin. Cf. Mozetta.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A hood, or cape with a hood, made of lined with gray fur,
formerly worn by the clergy; -- written also amess, amyss, and
almuce.

AMID
A*mid", prep.

Defn: See Amidst.

AMIDE
Am"ide, n. Etym: [Ammonia + -ide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound formed by the union of amidogen with an acid element
or radical. It may also be regarded as ammonia in which one or more
hydrogen atoms have been replaced by an acid atom or radical. Acid
amide, a neutral compound formed by the substitution of the amido
group for hydroxyl in an acid.

AMIDIN
Am"i*din, n. Etym: [Cf. F. amidine, fr. amido starch, fr. L. amylum,
Gr. Meal.] (Chem.)

Defn: Start modified by heat so as to become a transparent mass, like
horn. It is soluble in cold water.

AMIDO
A*mi"do, a. Etym: [From Amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: Containing, or derived from, amidogen. Amido acid, an acid in
which a portion of the nonacid hydrogen has been replaced by the
amido group. The amido acids are both basic and acid.
 -- Amido group, amidogen, NH2.

AMIDOGEN
A*mid"o*gen, n. Etym: [Amide + -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound radical, NH2, not yet obtained in a separate state,
which may be regarded as ammonia from the molecule of which one of
its hydrogen atoms has been removed; -- called also the amido group,
and in composition represented by the form amido.

AMIDOL
Am"i*dol, n.  [Amide + -ol as in alcohol.] (Photog. & Chem.)

Defn: A salt of a diamino phenol, C6H3(OH)(NH2)2, used as a
developer.

AMIDSHIPS
A*mid"ships, adv. (Naut.)

Defn: In the middle of a ship, with regard to her length, and
sometimes also her breadth. Totten.

AMIDST; AMID
A*midst", A*mid", prep. Etym: [OE. amidde, amiddes, on midden, AS. on
middan, in the middle, fr. midde the middle. The s is an adverbial
ending, originally marking the genitive; the t is a later addition,
as in whilst, amongst, alongst. See Mid.]

Defn: In the midst or middle of; surrounded or encompassed by; among.
"This fair tree amidst the garden." "Unseen amid the throng." "Amidst
thick clouds." Milton. "Amidst acclamations." "Amidst the splendor
and festivity of a court." Macaulay.
But rather famish them amid their plenty. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Amidst, Among. These words differ to some extent from each other,
as will be seen from their etymology. Amidst denotes in the midst or
middle of, and hence surrounded by; as, this work was written amidst
many interruptions. Among denotes a mingling or intermixing with
distinct or separable objects; as, "He fell among thieves." "Blessed
art thou among women." Hence, we say, among the moderns, among the
ancients, among the thickest of trees, among these considerations,
among the reasons I have to offer. Amid and amidst are commonly used
when the idea of separate or distinguishable objects is not
prominent. Hence, we say, they kept on amidst the storm, amidst the
gloom, he was sinking amidst the waves, he persevered amidst many
difficulties; in none of which cases could among be used. In like
manner, Milton speaks of Abdiel, --
The seraph Abdiel, faithful found; Among the faithless faithful only
he, because he was then considered as one of the angels. But when the
poet adds, --
From amidst them forth he passed, we have rather the idea of the
angels as a collective body.
Those squalid cabins and uncleared woods amidst which he was born.
Macaulay.

AMIGO
A*mi"go, n.; pl. Amigos (#). [Sp., fr. L. amicus.]

Defn: A friend; -- a Spanish term applied in the Philippine Islands
to friendly natives.

AMINE
Am"ine, n. Etym: [Ammonia + -ine.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of strongly basic substances derived from
ammonia by replacement of one or more hydrogen atoms by a basic atom
or radical.

AMINOL
Am"i*nol, n. [From amine.] (Pharm.)

Defn: A colorless liquid prepared from herring brine and containing
amines, used as a local antiseptic.

AMIOID
Am"i*oid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Amioidei.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Amioidei.

AMIOIDEI
Am`i*oi"de*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Amia + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of ganoid fishes of which Amis is type. See Bowfin and
Ganoidei.

AMIR
A*mir", n.

Defn: Same as Ameer.

AMISH
Am"ish, n. pl. [Written also Omish.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: The Amish Mennonites.

AMISH
Am"ish, a. [Written also Omish.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, the followers of Jacob
Amman, a strict Mennonite of the 17th century, who even proscribed
the use of buttons and shaving as "worldly conformity". There are
several branches of Amish Mennonites in the United States.

AMISS
A*miss", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + miss.]

Defn: Astray; faultily; improperly; wrongly; ill.
What error drives our eyes and ears amiss Shak.
Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss. James iv. 3.
To take (an act, thing) amiss, to impute a wrong motive to (an act or
thing); to take offense at' to take unkindly; as, you must not take
these questions amiss.

AMISS
A*miss", a.

Defn: Wrong; faulty; out of order; improper; as, it may not be amiss
to ask advice.

Note: [Used only in the predicate.] Dryden.
His wisdom and virtue can not always rectify that which is amiss in
himself or his circumstances. Wollaston.

AMISS
A*miss", n.

Defn: A fault, wrong, or mistake. [Obs.]
Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss. Shak.

AMISSIBILITY
A*mis`si*bil"i*ty, Etym: [Cf. F. amissibilité. See Amit.]

Defn: The quality of being amissible; possibility of being lost. [R.]
Notions of popular rights and the amissibility of sovereign power for
misconduct were alternately broached by the two great religious
parties of Europe. Hallam.

AMISSIBLE
A*mis"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. amissibilis: cf. F. amissible.]

Defn: Liable to be lost. [R.]

AMISSION
A*mis"sion, n. Etym: [L. amissio: cf. F. amission.]

Defn: Deprivation; loss. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

AMIT
A*mit", v. t. Etym: [L. amittere, amissum, to lose; a (ab) + mittere
to send. See Missile.]

Defn: To lose. [Obs.]
A lodestone fired doth presently amit its proper virtue. Sir T.
Browne.

AMITOSIS
Am`i*to"sis, n. [NL. See A-not, and Mitosis.] (Biol.)

Defn: Cell division in which there is first a simple cleavage of the
nucleus without change in its structure (such as the formation of
chromosomes), followed by the division of the cytoplasm; direct cell
division; -- opposed to mitosis. It is not the usual mode of
division, and is believed by many to occur chiefly in highly
specialized cells which are incapable of long-continued
multiplication, in transitory structures, and in those in early
stages of degeneration.

AMITOTIC
Am`i*tot"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to amitosis; karyostenotic; -- opposed to
mitotic.

AMITY
Am"i*ty, n.; pl. Amities. Etym: [F. amitié, OF. amistié, amisté, fr.
an assumed LL. amisitas, fr. L. amicus friendly, from amare to love.
See Amiable.]

Defn: Friendship, in a general sense, between individuals, societies,
or nations; friendly relations; good understanding; as, a treaty of
amity and commerce; the amity of the Whigs and Tories.
To live on terms of amity with vice. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Harmony; friendliness; friendship; affection; good will; peace.

AMMA
Am"ma, n. Etym: [LL. amma, prob. of interjectional or imitative
origin: cf. Sp. ama, G. amme, nurse, Basque ama mother, Heb. , Ar.
immun, ummun.]

Defn: An abbes or spiritual mother.

AMMETER
Am"me*ter, n. (Physics)

Defn: A contraction of amperometer or ampèremeter.

AMMIRAL
Am"mi*ral, n.

Defn: An obsolete form of admiral. "The mast of some great ammiral."
Milton.

AMMITE
Am"mite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: Oölite or roestone; -- written also hammite. [Obs.]

AMMODYTE
Am"mo*dyte, n. Etym: [L. ammodytes, Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) One of a genus of fishes; the sand eel.
(b) A kind of viper in southern Europe. [Obs.]

AMMONAL
Am"mo*nal`, n.  [Ammonium + aluminium.]

Defn: An explosive consisting of a mixture of powdered aluminium and
nitrate of ammonium.

AMMONIA
Am*mo"ni*a, n. Etym: [From sal ammoniac, which was first obtaining
near the temple of Jupiter Ammon, by burning camel's dung. See
Ammoniac.] (Chem.)

Defn: A gaseous compound of hydrogen and nitrogen, NH3, with a
pungent smell and taste: -- often called volatile alkali, and spirits
of hartshorn.

AMMONIAC; AMMONIACAL
Am*mo"ni*ac, Am`mo*ni"a*cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ammonia, or possessing its properties; as,
an ammoniac salt; ammoniacal gas. Ammoniacal engine, an engine in
which the vapor of ammonia is used as the motive force.
 -- Sal ammoniac Etym: [L. sal ammoniacus], the salt usually called
chloride of ammonium, and formerly muriate of ammonia.

AMMONIAC; GUM AMMONIAC
Am*mo"ni*ac ([or] Gum` am*mo"ni*ac , n. Etym: [L. Ammoniacum, Gr.
Ammon; cf. F. ammoniac. See Ammonite.] (Med.)

Defn: The concrete juice (gum resin) of an umbelliferous plant, the
Dorema ammoniacum. It is brought chiefly from Persia in the form of
yellowish tears, which occur singly, or are aggregated into masses.
It has a peculiar smell, and a nauseous, sweet taste, followed by a
bitter one. It is inflammable, partially soluble in water and in
spirit of wine, and is used in medicine as an expectorant and
resolvent, and for the formation of certain plasters.

AMMONIACAL FERMENTATION
Am`mo*ni"a*cal fer`men*ta"tion.

Defn: Any fermentation process by which ammonia is formed, as that by
which urea is converted into ammonium carbonate when urine is exposed
to the air.

AMMONIATED
Am*mo"ni*a`ted, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined or impregnated with ammonia.

AMMONIC
Am*mo"nic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ammonia.

AMMONITE
Am"mon*ite, n. Etym: [L. cornu Ammonis born of Ammon; L. Ammon, Gr.
Amun.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil cephalopod shell related to the nautilus. There are
many genera and species, and all are extinct, the typical forms
having existed only in the Mesozoic age, when they were exceedingly
numerous. They differ from the nautili in having the margins of the
septa very much lobed or plaited, and the siphuncle dorsal. Also
called serpent stone, snake stone, and cornu Ammonis.

AMMONITIFEROUS
Am`mon*i*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Ammonite + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing fossil ammonites.

AMMONITOIDEA
Am*mon`i*toid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Ammonite + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive group of fossil cephalopods often very abundant in
Mesozoic rocks. See Ammonite.

AMMONIUM
Am*mo"ni*um, n. Etym: [See Ammonia.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound radical, NH4, having the chemical relations of a
strongly basic element like the alkali metals.

AMMUNITION
Am`mu*ni"tion, n. Etym: [F. amunition, for munition, prob. caused by
taking la munition as l'amunition. See Munition.]

1. Military stores, or provisions of all kinds for attack or defense.
[Obs.]

2. Articles used in charging firearms and ordnance of all kinds; as
powder, balls, shot, shells, percussion caps, rockets, etc.

3. Any stock of missiles, literal or figurative. Ammunition bread,
shoes, etc., such as are contracted for by government, and supplied
to the soldiers. [Eng.]

AMMUNITION
Am`mu*ni"tion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ammunitioned; p pr. & vb. n.
Ammunitioning.]

Defn: To provide with ammunition.

AMNESIA
Am*ne"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Forgetfulness; also, a defect of speech, from cerebral disease,
in which the patient substitutes wrong words or names in the place of
those he wishes to employ. Quian.

AMNESIC
Am*ne"sic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to amnesia. "Amnesic or coördinate defects."
Quian.

AMNESTIC
Am*nes"tic, a.

Defn: Causing loss of memory.

AMNESTY
Am"nes*ty, n. Etym: [L. amnestia, Gr. amnistie, earlier amnestie. See
Mean, v.]

1. Forgetfulness; cessation of remembrance of wrong; oblivion.

2. An act of the sovereign power granting oblivion, or a general
pardon, for a past offense, as to subjects concerned in an
insurrection.

AMNESTY
Am"nes*ty, v. t. [imp. p. p. Amnestied; p. pr. & vb. n. Amnestying.]

Defn: To grant amnesty to.

AMNICOLIST
Am*nic"o*list, n. Etym: [L. amnicola, amnis a river + colere to
dwell.]

Defn: One who lives near a river. [Obs.] Bailey.

AMNIGENOUS
Am*nig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. amnigena; amnis a river + root gen of
gignere to beget.]

Defn: Born or bred in, of, or near a river. [Obs.] Bailey.

AMNION
Am"ni*on, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A thin membrane surrounding the embryos of mammals, birds, and
reptiles.

AMNIOS
Am"ni*os, n.

Defn: Same as Amnion.

AMNIOTA
Am`ni*o"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Amnion.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: That group of vertebrates which develops in its embryonic life
the envelope called the amnion. It comprises the reptiles, the birds,
and the mammals.

AMNIOTIC
Am`ni*ot"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. amniotique.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the amnion; characterized by an amnion; as,
the amniotic fluid; the amniotic sac. Amniotic acid. (Chem.) [R.] See
Allantoin.

AMOEBA
A*moe"ba, n; pl. L. Amoebæ; E. Amoebas. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A rhizopod. common in fresh water, capable of undergoing many
changes of form at will. See Rhizopoda.

AMOEBAEUM
Am`oe*bæ"um, n. Etym: [L. amoebaeus, Gr. amoebaeum carmen, Gr.

Defn: A poem in which persons are represented at speaking
alternately; as the third and seventh eclogues of Virgil.

AMOEBEA
Am`oe*be"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: That division of the Rhizopoda which includes the amoeba and
similar forms.

AMOEBEAN
Am`oe*be"an, a.

Defn: Alternately answering.

AMOEBIAN
A*moe"bi*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Amoebea.

AMOEBIFORM; AMOEBOID
A*moe"bi*form, A*moe"boid, a. Etym: [Amoeba + -form or -oid.] (Biol.)

Defn: Resembling an amoeba; amoeba-shaped; changing in shape like an
amoeba. Amoeboid movement, movement produced, as in the amoeba, by
successive processes of prolongation and retraction.

AMOEBOUS
A*moe"bous, a.

Defn: Like an amoeba in structure.

AMOLE
A*mo"le, n. [Mex.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any detergent plant, or the part of it used as a detergent, as
the roots of Agave Americana, Chlorogalum pomeridianum, etc. [Sp.
Amer. & Mex.]

AMOLITION
Am`o*li"tion, n. Etym: [L. amolitio, fr. amoliri to remove; a (ab) +
moliri to put in motion.]

Defn: Removal; a putting away. [Obs.] Bp. Ward (1673).

AMOMUM
A*mo"mum, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of aromatic plants. It includes species which bear
cardamoms, and grains of paradise.

AMONESTE
A*mon"este, v. t.

Defn: To admonish. [Obs.]

AMONG; AMONGST
A*mong", A*mongst", prep. Etym: [OE. amongist, amonges, amonge,
among, AS. onmang, ongemang, gemang, in a crowd or mixture. For the
ending -st see Amidst. See Mingle.]

1. Mixed or mingled; surrounded by.
They heard, And from his presence hid themselves among The thickest
trees. Milton.

2. Conjoined, or associated with, or making part of the number of; in
the number or class of.
Blessed art thou among women. Luke i. 28.

3. Expressing a relation of dispersion, distribution, etc.; also, a
relation of reciprocal action.
What news among the merchants Shak.
Human sacrifices were practiced among them. Hume.
Divide that gold amongst you. Marlowe.
Whether they quarreled among themselves, or with their neighbors.
Addison.

Syn.
 -- Amidst; between. See Amidst, Between.

AMONTILLADO
A*mon`til*la"do, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A dry kind of cherry, of a light color. Simmonds.

AMORET
Am"o*ret, n. Etym: [OF. amorette, F. amourette, dim. of amour.]

1. An amorous girl or woman; a wanton. [Obs.] J. Warton.

2. A love knot, love token, or love song. (pl.) Love glances or love
tricks. [Obs.]

3. A petty love affair or amour. [Obs.]

AMORETTE
Am"o*rette", n.

Defn: An amoret. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

AMORIST
Am"o*rist, n. Etym: [L. armor love. See Amorous.]

Defn: A lover; a gallant. [R.] Milton.
It was the custom for an amorist to impress the name of his mistress
in the dust, or upon the damp earth, with letters fixed upon his
shoe. Southey.

A-MORNINGS
A-morn"ings, adv. Etym: [See Amorwe. The -s is a genitival ending.
See -wards.]

Defn: In the morning; every morning. [Obs.]
And have such pleasant walks into the woods A-mornings. J. Fletcher.

AMOROSA
Am`o*ro"sa, n. Etym: [It. amoroso, fem. amorosa.]

Defn: A wanton woman; a courtesan. Sir T. Herbert.

AMOROSITY
Am`o*ros"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being amorous; lovingness. [R.] Galt.

AMOROSO
Am`o*ro"so, n. Etym: [It. amoroso, LL. amorosus.]

Defn: A lover; a man enamored.

AMOROSO
Am`o*ro"so, adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: In a soft, tender, amatory style.

AMOROUS
Am"o*rous, a. Etym: [OF. amoros, F. amoreux, LL. amorosus, fr. L.
amor love, fr. amare to love.]

1. Inclined to love; having a propensity to love, or to sexual
enjoyment; loving; fond; affectionate; as, an amorous disposition.

2. Affected with love; in love; enamored; -- usually with of;
formerly with on.
Thy roses amorous of the moon. Keats.
High nature amorous of the good. Tennyson.
Sure my brother is amorous on Hero. Shak.

3. Of or relating to, or produced by, love. "Amorous delight."
Milton. "Amorous airs." Waller.

Syn.
 -- Loving; fond; tender; passionate; affectionate; devoted; ardent.

AMOROUSLY
Am"o*rous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an amorous manner; fondly.

AMOROUSNESS
Am"o*rous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being amorous, or inclined to sexual love;
lovingness.

AMORPHA
A*mor"pha, n.; pl. Amorphas. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of leguminous shrubs, having long clusters of purple
flowers; false or bastard indigo. Longfellow.

AMORPHISM
A*mor"phism, n. Etym: [See Amorphous.]

Defn: A state of being amorphous; esp. a state of being without
crystallization even in the minutest particles, as in glass, opal,
etc.

Note: There are stony substances which, when fused, may cool as glass
or as stone; the glass state is spoken of as a state of amorphism.

AMORPHOUS
A*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Having no determinate form; of irregular; shapeless. Kirwan.

2. Without crystallization in the ultimate texture of a solid
substance; uncrystallized.

3. Of no particular kind or character; anomalous.
Scientific treatises . . . are not seldom rude and amorphous in
style. Hare.
-- A*mor"phous*ly, adv.
 -- A*mor"phous*ness, n.

AMORPHOZOA
A*mor`pho*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Animals without a mouth or regular internal organs, as the
sponges.

AMORPHOZOIC
A*mor`pho*zo"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Amorphozoa.

AMORPHY
A*mor"phy, n. Etym: [Gr. amorphie. See Amorphous.]

Defn: Shapelessness. [Obs.] Swift.

AMORT
A*mort", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + F. mort death, dead; all amort is for
alamort.]

Defn: As if dead; lifeless; spiritless; dejected; depressed. Shak.

AMORTISE; AMORTISATION; AMORTISABLE; AMORTISEMENT
A*mor"tise, v., A*mor`ti*sa"tion, n., A*mor"tis*a*ble, a.,
A*mor"tise*ment, n.

Defn: Same as Amortize, Amortization, etc.

AMORTIZABLE
A*mor"tiz*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. amortissable.]

Defn: Capable of being cleared off, as a debt.

AMORTIZATION
A*mor`ti*za"tion, n. Etym: [LL. amortisatio, admortizatio. See
Amortize, and cf. Admortization.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The act or right of alienating lands to a corporation, which
was considered formerly as transferring them to dead hands, or in
mortmain.

2. The extinction of a debt, usually by means of a sinking fund;
also, the money thus paid. Simmonds.

AMORTIZE
A*mor"tize, v. t. Etym: [OE. amortisen, LL. amortisare, admortizare,
F. amortir to sell in mortmain, to extinguish; L. ad + mors death.
See Mortmain].

1. To make as if dead; to destroy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. (Law)

Defn: To alienate in mortmain, that is, to convey to a corporation.
See Mortmain.

3. To clear off or extinguish, as a debt, usually by means of a
sinking fund.

AMORTIZEMENT
A*mor"tize*ment, n. Etym: [F. amortissement.]

Defn: Same as Amortization.

AMORWE
A*mor"we, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- on + OE. morwe. See Morrow.]

1. In the morning. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. On the following morning. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AMOTION
A*mo"tion, n. Etym: [L. amotio. See Amove.]

1. Removal; ousting; especially, the removal of a corporate officer
from his office.

2. Deprivation of possession.

AMOTUS
A*mo"tus, a. Etym: [L., withdrawn (from it (Zoöl.)

Defn: Elevated, -- as a toe, when raised so high that the tip does
not touch the ground.

AMOUNT
A*mount", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Amounted; p. pr. & vb. n. Amounting.]
Etym: [OF. amonter to increase, advance, ascend, fr. amont (equiv. to
L. ad montem to the mountain) upward, F. amont up the river. See
Mount, n.]

1. To go up; to ascend. [Obs.]
So up he rose, and thence amounted straight. Spenser.

2. To rise or reach by an accumulation of particular sums or
quantities; to come (to) in the aggregate or whole; -- with to or
unto.

3. To rise, reach, or extend in effect, substance, or influence; to
be equivalent; to come practically (to); as, the testimony amounts to
very little.

AMOUNT
A*mount", v. t.

Defn: To signify; to amount to. [Obs.]

AMOUNT
A*mount", n.

1. The sum total of two or more sums or quantities; the aggregate;
the whole quantity; a totality; as, the amount of 7 and 9 is 16; the
amount of a bill; the amount of this year's revenue.

2. The effect, substance, value, significance, or result; the sum;
as, the amount of the testimony is this.
The whole amount of that enormous fame. Pope.

AMOUR
A*mour", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. amor love.]

1. Love; affection. [Obs.]

2. Love making; a love affair; usually, an unlawful connection in
love; a love intrigue; an illicit love affair. In amours with, in
love with. [Obs.]

AMOUR PROPRE
A"mour` pro"pre. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Self-love; self-esteem.

AMOVABILITY
A*mov`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Liability to be removed or dismissed from office. [R.] T.
Jefferson.

AMOVABLE
A*mov"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. amovible.]

Defn: Removable.

AMOVE
A*move", v. t. Etym: [L. amovere; a- (ab) + movere to move: cf. OF.
amover.]

1. To remove, as a person or thing, from a position. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

2. (Law)

Defn: To dismiss from an office or station.

AMOVE
A*move", v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. amovir, L. admovere to move to, to
excite; ad + movere.]

Defn: To move or be moved; to excite. [Obs.] Spenser.

AMPELITE
Am"pe*lite, n. Etym: [L. ampelitis, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: An earth abounding in pyrites, used by the ancients to kill
insects, etc., on vines; -- applied by Brongniart to a carbonaceous
alum schist.

AMPELOPSIS
Am`pe*lop"sis (am`pe*lop"sis), n. [NL., fr. Gr. 'a`mpelos vine +
'o`psis appearance.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus formerly including the Virginia creeper.

AMPERAGE
Am*per"age, n. (Elec.)

Defn: The strength of a current of electricity carried by a conductor
or generated by a machine, measured in ampères.

AMPERE; AMPERE
Am`père", Am*pere", n. Etym: [From the name of a French electrician.]
(Elec.)

Defn: The unit of electric current; -- defined by the International
Electrical Congress in 1893 and by U. S. Statute as, one tenth of the
unit of current of the C. G. S. system of electro-magnetic units, or
the practical equivalent of the unvarying current which, when passed
through a standard solution of nitrate of silver in water, deposits
silver at the rate of 0.001118 grams per second. Called also the
international ampère.

AMPERE FOOT
Am`père" foot. (Elec.)

Defn: A unit, employed in calculating fall of pressure in
distributing mains, equivalent to a current of one ampère flowing
through one foot of conductor.

AMPERE HOUR; AMPERE MINUTE; AMPERE SECOND
Ampère hour. (Elec.)

Defn: The quantity of electricity delivered in one hour by a current
whose average strength is one ampère. It is used as a unit of
quantity, and is equal to 3600 coulombs. The terms Ampère minute and
Ampère second are sometimes similarly used.

AMPEREMETER; AMPEROMETER
Am`père"me`ter, Am`pe*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Ampère + meter.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the strength of an electrical
current in ampères.

AMPERE TURN
Ampère turn. (Elec.)

Defn: A unit equal to the product of one complete convolution (of a
coiled conductor) into one ampère of current; thus, a conductor
having five convolutions and carrying a current of half an ampère is
said to have 2½ ampère turns. The magnetizing effect of a coil is
proportional to the number of its ampère turns.

AMPERSAND
Am"per*sand, n. Etym: [A corruption of and, per se and, i. e., & by
itself makes and.]

Defn: A word used to describe the character Halliwell.

AMPHI-
Am*phi-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A prefix in words of Greek origin, signifying both, of both
kinds, on both sides, about, around.

AMPHIARTHRODIAL
Am`phi*ar*thro"di*al, a. Etym: [Pref. amphi- + arthrodial.]

Defn: Characterized by amphiarthrosis.

AMPHIARTHROSIS
Am`phi*ar*thro"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A form of articulation in which the bones are connected by
intervening substance admitting slight motion; symphysis.

AMPHIASTER
Am"phi*as`ter, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The achromatic figure, formed in mitotic cell-division,
consisting of two asters connected by a spindle-shaped bundle of
rodlike fibers diverging from each aster, and called the spindle.

AMPHIBIA
Am*phib"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [See Amphibium.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the classes of vertebrates.

Note: The Amphibia are distinguished by having usually no scales, by
having eggs and embryos similar to those of fishes, and by undergoing
a complete metamorphosis, the young having gills. There are three
living orders: (1) The tailless, as the frogs (Anura); (2) The tailed
(Urodela), as the salamanders, and the siren group (Sirenoidea),
which retain the gills of the young state (hence called
Perennibranchiata) through the adult state, among which are the
siren, proteus, etc.; (3) The Coecilians, or serpentlike Amphibia
(Ophiomorpha or Gymnophiona), with minute scales and without limbs.
The extinct Labyrinthodonts also belonged to this class. The term is
sometimes loosely applied to both reptiles and amphibians
collectively.

AMPHIBIAL
Am*phib"i*al (-al), a. & n.

Defn: Amphibian. [R.]

AMPHIBIAN
Am*phib"i*an (-an), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Amphibia; as, amphibian reptiles.

AMPHIBIAN
Am*phib"i*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Amphibia.

AMPHIBIOLOGICAL
Am*phib`i*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to amphibiology.

AMPHIBIOLOGY
Am*phib`i*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. amphibiologie.]

Defn: A treatise on amphibious animals; the department of natural
history which treats of the Amphibia.

AMPHIBIOTICA
Am*phib`i*ot"i*ca, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of insects having aquatic larvæ.

AMPHIBIOUS
Am*phib"i*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. i. e., both on land in water;

1. Having the ability to live both on land and in water, as frogs,
crocodiles, beavers, and some plants.

2. Pertaining to, adapted for, or connected with, both land and
water.
The amphibious character of the Greeks was already determined: they
were to be lords of land and sea. Hare.

3. Of a mixed nature; partaking of two natures.
Not in free and common socage, but in this amphibious subordinate
class of villein socage. Blackstone.

AMPHIBIOUSLY
Am*phib"i*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: Like an amphibious being.

AMPHIBIUM
Am*phib"i*um, n.; pl. L. Amphibia; E. Amphibiums. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
Amphibious.]

Defn: An amphibian.

AMPHIBLASTIC
Am`phi*blas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Segmenting unequally; -- said of telolecithal ova with complete
segmentation.

AMPHIBOLE
Am"phi*bole, n. Etym: [Gr. amphibole. Haüy so named the genus from
the great variety of color and composition assumed by the mineral.]
(Min.)

Defn: A common mineral embracing many varieties varying in color and
in composition. It occurs in monoclinic crystals; also massive,
generally with fibrous or columnar structure. The color varies from
white to gray, green, brown, and black. It is a silicate of magnesium
and calcium, with usually aluminium and iron. Some common varieties
are tremolite, actinolite, asbestus, edenite, hornblende (the last
name being also used as a general term for the whole species).
Amphibole is a constituent of many crystalline rocks, as syenite,
diorite, most varieties of trachyte, etc. See Hornblende.

AMPHIBOLIC
Am`phi*bol"ic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to amphiboly; ambiguous; equivocal.

2. Of or resembling the mineral amphibole.

AMPHIBOLOGICAL
Am*phib`o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of doubtful meaning; ambiguous. "Amphibological expressions."
Jer. Taylor.
 -- Am*phib`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

AMPHIBOLOGY
Am`phi*bol"o*gy, n.; pl. Amphibologies. Etym: [L. amphibologia, for
amphibolia, fr. Gr. logia as if fr. Gr. amphibologie. See Amphiboly.]

Defn: A phrase, discourse, or proposition, susceptible of two
interpretations; and hence, of uncertain meaning. It differs from
equivocation, which arises from the twofold sense of a single term.

AMPHIBOLOUS
Am*phib"o*lous, a. Etym: [L. amphibolus, Gr. Amphibole.]

1. Ambiguous; doubtful. [Obs.]
Never was there such an amphibolous quarrel -- both parties declaring
themselves for the king. Howell.

2. (Logic)

Defn: Capable of two meanings.
An amphibolous sentence is one that is capable of two meanings, not
from the double sense of any of the words, but from its admitting of
a double construction; e. g., "The duke yet lives that Henry shall
depose." Whately.

AMPHIBOLY
Am*phib"o*ly, n.; pl. Amphibolies. Etym: [L. amphibolia, Gr.
amphibolie. See Amphibolous.]

Defn: Ambiguous discourse; amphibology.
If it oracle contrary to our interest or humor, we will create an
amphiboly, a double meaning where there is none. Whitlock.

AMPHIBRACH
Am"phi*brach, n. Etym: [L. (Anc. Pros.)

Defn: A foot of three syllables, the middle one long, the first and
last short (as, h. In modern prosody the accented syllable takes the
place of the long and the unaccented of the short; as, pro-phet''ic.

AMPHICARPIC; AMPHICARPOUS
Am`phi*car"pic, Am`phi*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing fruit of two kinds, either as to form or time of
ripening.

AMPHICHROIC
Am`phi*chro"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Exhibiting or producing two colors, as substances which in the
color test may change red litmus to blue and blue litmus to red.

AMPHICOELIAN; AMPHICOELOUS
Am`phi*coe"li*an, Am`phi*coe"lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having both ends concave; biconcave; -- said of vertebræ.

AMPHICOME
Am"phi*come, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A kind of figured stone, rugged and beset with eminences,
anciently used in divination. [Obs.] Encyc. Brit.

AMPHICTYONIC
Am*phic`ty*on"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Amphictyons or their League or Council;
as, an Amphictyonic town or state; the Amphictyonic body. W. Smith.

AMPHICTYONS
Am*phic"ty*ons, n. pl. Etym: [L. Amphictyones, Gr. (Grecian Hist.)

Defn: Deputies from the confederated states of ancient Greece to a
congress or council. They considered both political and religious
matters.

AMPHICTYONY
Am*phic"ty*o*ny, n.; pl. Amphictyonies. Etym: [Gr. (Grecian Hist.)

Defn: A league of states of ancient Greece; esp. the celebrated
confederation known as the Amphictyonic Council. Its object was to
maintain the common interests of Greece.

AMPHID
Am"phid, n. Etym: [Gr. amphide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of the class formed by the combination of an acid and a
base, or by the union of two oxides, two sulphides, selenides, or
tellurides, as distinguished from a haloid compound. [R.] Berzelius.

AMPHIDISC
Am"phi*disc, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar small siliceous spicule having a denticulated wheel
at each end; -- found in freshwater sponges.

AMPHIDROMICAL
Am`phi*drom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to an Attic festival at the naming of a child; -- so
called because the friends of the parents carried the child around
the hearth and then named it.

AMPHIGAMOUS
Am*phig"a*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a structure entirely cellular, and no distinct sexual
organs; -- a term applied by De Candolle to the lowest order of
plants.

AMPHIGEAN
Am`phi*ge"an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Extending over all the zones, from the tropics to the polar
zones inclusive.

AMPHIGEN
Am"phi*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen: cf. F. amphigène.] (Chem.)

Defn: An element that in combination produces amphid salt; -- applied
by Berzelius to oxygen, sulphur, selenium, and tellurium. [R.]

AMPHIGENE
Am"phi*gene, n. (Min.)

Defn: Leucite.

AMPHIGENESIS
Am`phi*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Sexual generation; amphigony.

AMPHIGENOUS
Am*phig"e*nous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Increasing in size by growth on all sides, as the lichens.

AMPHIGONIC
Am`phi*gon"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to amphigony; sexual; as, amphigonic propagation.
[R.]

AMPHIGONOUS
Am*phig"o*nous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Relating to both parents. [R.]

AMPHIGONY
Am*phig"o*ny, n.

Defn: Sexual propagation. [R.]

AMPHIGORIC
Am`phi*gor"ic, a. Etym: [See Amphigory.]

Defn: Nonsensical; absurd; pertaining to an amphigory.

AMPHIGORY
Am"phi*go*ry, n. Etym: [F. amphigouri, of uncertain derivation; perh.
fr. Gr.

Defn: A nonsense verse; a rigmarole, with apparent meaning, which on
further attention proves to be meaningless. [Written also
amphigouri.]

AMPHILOGISM; AMPHILOGY
Am*phil"o*gism, Am*phil"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: Ambiguity of speech; equivocation. [R.]

AMPHIMACER
Am*phim"a*cer, n. Etym: [L. amphimacru, Gr. (Anc. Pros.)

Defn: A foot of three syllables, the middle one short and the others
long, as in cast. Andrews.

AMPHINEURA
Am`phi*neu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Mollusca remarkable for the bilateral symmetry of
the organs and the arrangement of the nerves.

AMPHIOXUS
Am`phi*ox"us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fishlike creature (Amphioxus lanceolatus), two or three
inches long, found in temperature seas; -- also called the lancelet.
Its body is pointed at both ends. It is the lowest and most
generalized of the vertebrates, having neither brain, skull,
vertebræ, nor red blood. It forms the type of the group Acrania,
Leptocardia, etc.

AMPHIPNEUST
Am*phip"neust, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a tribe of Amphibia, which have both lungs and gills at
the same time, as the proteus and siren.

AMPHIPOD
Am"phi*pod, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Amphipoda.

AMPHIPOD; AMPHIPODAN
Am"phi*pod, Am*phip"o*dan, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda.

AMPHIPODA
Am*phip"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., FR. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A numerous group of fourteen -- footed Crustacea, inhabiting
both fresh and salt water. The body is usually compressed laterally,
and the anterior pairs or legs are directed downward and forward, but
the posterior legs are usually turned upward and backward. The beach
flea is an example. See Tetradecapoda and Arthrostraca.

AMPHIPODOUS
Am*phip"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda.

AMPHIPROSTYLE
Am*phip"ro*style, a. Etym: [L. amphiprostylos, Gr. amphiprostyle. See
Prostyle.] (Arch.)

Defn: Doubly prostyle; having columns at each end, but not at the
sides.
 -- n.

Defn: An amphiprostyle temple or edifice.

AMPHIRHINA
Am`phi*rhi"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name applied to the elasmobranch fishes, because the nasal
sac is double.

AMPHISBAENA
Am`phis*bæ"na, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A fabled serpent with a head at each end, moving either way.
Milton.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of harmless lizards, serpentlike in form, without legs,
and with both ends so much alike that they appear to have a head at
each, and ability to move either way. See Illustration in Appendix.

Note: The Gordius aquaticus, or hairworm, has been called an
amphisbæna; but it belongs among the worms.

AMPHISBAENOID
Am`phis*bæ"noid, a. Etym: [NL., fr. L. amphisbaena + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the lizards of the genus Amphisbæna.

AMPHISCII; AMPHISCIANS
Am*phis"ci*i, Am*phis"cians, n. pl. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The inhabitants of the tropic, whose shadows in one part of the
year are cast to the north, and in the other to the south, according
as the sun is south or north of their zenith.

AMPHISTOMOUS
Am*phis"to*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a sucker at each extremity, as certain entozoa, by means
of which they adhere.

AMPHISTYLIC
Am`phi*sty"lic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having the mandibular arch articulated with the hyoid arch and
the cranium, as in the cestraciont sharks; -- said of a skull.

AMPHITHEATER; AMPHITHEATRE
Am`phi*the"a*ter, Am`phi*the"a*tre,, n. Etym: [L. amphitheatrum, fr.
Gr. amphithé\'83tre. See Theater.]

1. An oval or circular building with rising tiers of seats about an
open space called the arena.

Note: The Romans first constructed amphitheaters for combats of
gladiators and wild beasts.

2. Anything resembling an amphitheater in form; as, a level
surrounded by rising slopes or hills, or a rising gallery in a
theater.

AMPHITHEATRAL
Am`phi*the"a*tral, a. Etym: [L. amphitheatralis: cf. F.
amphithé\'83tral.]

Defn: Amphitheatrical; resembling an amphitheater.

AMPHITHEATRIC; AMPHITHEATRICAL
Am`phi*the*at"ric, Am`phi*the*at"ric*al, a. Etym: [L.
amphitheatricus.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, exhibited in, or resembling, an
amphitheater.

AMPHITHEATRICALLY
Am`phi*the*at"ric*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the form or manner of an amphitheater.

AMPHITROCHA
Am*phit"ro*cha, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of annelid larva having both a dorsal and a ventral
circle of special cilia.

AMPHITROPAL; AMPHITROPOUS
Am*phit"ro*pal, Am*phit"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the ovule inverted, but with the attachment near the
middle of one side; half anatropous.

AMPHIUMA
Am`phi*u"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of amphibians, inhabiting the Southern United States,
having a serpentlike form, but with four minute limbs and two
persistent gill openings; the Congo snake.

AMPHOPEPTONE
Am`pho*pep"tone, n. Etym: [Gr. peptone.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A product of gastric digestion, a mixture of hemipeptone and
antipeptone.

AMPHORA
Am"pho*ra, n.; pl. Amophoræ. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Ampul.]

Defn: Among the ancients, a two-handled vessel, tapering at the
bottom, used for holding wine, oil, etc.

AMPHORAL
Am"pho*ral, a. Etym: [L. amphoralis.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, an amphora.

AMPHORIC
Am*phor"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Produced by, or indicating, a cavity in the lungs, not filled,
and giving a sound like that produced by blowing into an empty
decanter; as, amphoric respiration or resonance.

AMPHOTERIC
Am`pho*ter"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Partly one and partly the other; neither acid nor alkaline;
neutral. [R.] Smart.

AMPLE
Am"ple, a. Etym: [F. ample, L. amplus, prob. for ambiplus full on
both sides, the last syllable akin to L. plenus full. See Full, and
cf. Double.]

Defn: Large; great in size, extent, capacity, or bulk; spacious;
roomy; widely extended.
All the people in that ample house Did to that image bow their humble
knees. Spenser.

2. Fully sufficient; abundant; liberal; copious; as, an ample
fortune; ample justice.

3. Not contracted of brief; not concise; extended; diffusive; as, an
ample narrative. Johnson.

Syn.
 -- Full; spacious; extensive; wide; capacious; abundant; plentiful;
plenteous; copious; bountiful; rich; liberal; munificent.
 -- Ample, Copious, Abundant, Plenteous. These words agree in
representing a thing as large, but under different relations,
according to the image which is used. Ample implies largeness,
producing a sufficiency or fullness of supply for every want; as,
ample stores or resources, ample provision. Copious carries with it
the idea of flow, or of collection at a single point; as, a copious
supply of materials. "Copious matter of my song." Milton. Abundant
and plenteous refer to largeness of quantity; as, abundant stores;
plenteous harvests.

AMPLECTANT
Am*plec"tant, a. Etym: [L. amplecti to embrace.] (Bot.)

Defn: Clasping a support; as, amplectant tendrils. Gray.

AMPLENESS
Am"ple*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being ample; largeness; fullness;
completeness.

AMPLEXATION
Am`plex*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. amplexari to embrace.]

Defn: An embrace. [Obs.]
An humble amplexation of those sacred feet. Bp. Hall.

AMPLEXICAUL
Am*plex"i*caul, a. Etym: [L. amplexus, p. p. of amplecti to encircle,
to embrace + caulis stem: cf. F. amplexicaule.] (Bot.)

Defn: Clasping or embracing a stem, as the base of some leaves. Gray.

AMPLIATE
Am"pli*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. ampliatus, p. p. of ampliare to make
wider, fr. amplus. See Ample.]

Defn: To enlarge. [R.]
To maintain and ampliate the external possessions of your empire.
Udall.

AMPLIATE
Am"pli*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the outer edge prominent; said of the wings of insects.

AMPLIATION
Am`pli*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. ampliatio: cf. F. ampliation.]

1. Enlargement; amplification. [R.]

2. (Civil Law)

Defn: A postponement of the decision of a cause, for further
consideration or re-argument.

AMPLIATIVE
Am"pli*a*tive, a. (Logic)

Defn: Enlarging a conception by adding to that which is already known
or received.
"All bodies possess power of attraction" is an ampliative judgment;
because we can think of bodies without thinking of attraction as one
of their immediate primary attribute. Abp. W. Thomson.

AMPLIFICATE
Am*plif"i*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. amplificatus, p. p. of amplificare.]

Defn: To amplify. [Obs.] Bailey.

AMPLIFICATION
Am`pli*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. amplificatio.]

1. The act of amplifying or enlarging in dimensions; enlargement;
extension.

2. (Rhet.)

Defn: The enlarging of a simple statement by particularity of
description, the use of epithets, etc., for rhetorical effect;
diffuse narrative or description, or a dilating upon all the
particulars of a subject.
Exaggeration is a species of amplification. Brande & C.
I shall summarily, without any amplification at all, show in what
manner defects have been supplied. Sir J. Davies.

3. The matter by which a statement is amplified; as, the subject was
presented without amplifications.

AMPLIFICATIVE
Am*plif"i*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Amplificatory.

AMPLIFICATORY
Am*plif"i*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving to amplify or enlarge; amplificative. Morell.

AMPLIFIER
Am"pli*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who or that which amplifies.

AMPLIFY
Am"pli*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amplified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Amplifying.] Etym: [F. amplifier, L. amplificare. See Ample, -fy.]

1. To render larger, more extended, or more intense, and the like; --
used especially of telescopes, microscopes, etc.

2. (Rhet.)

Defn: To enlarge by addition or discussion; to treat copiously by
adding particulars, illustrations, etc.; to expand; to make much of.
Troilus and Cressida was written by a Lombard author, but much
amplified by our English translator. Dryden.

AMPLIFY
Am"pli*fy, v. i.

1. To become larger. [Obs.]
Strait was the way at first, withouten light, But further in did
further amplify. Fairfax.

2. To speak largely or copiously; to be diffuse in argument or
description; to dilate; to expatiate; -- often with on or upon.
Watts.
He must often enlarge and amplify upon the subject he handles. South.

AMPLITUDE
Am"pli*tude, n. Etym: [L. amplitudo, fr. amplus: cf. F. amplitude.
See Ample.]

1. State of being ample; extent of surface or space; largeness of
dimensions; size.
The cathedral of Lincoln . . . is a magnificent structure,
proportionable to the amplitude of the diocese. Fuller.

2. Largeness, in a figurative sense; breadth; abundance; fullness.
(a) Of extent of capacity or intellectual powers. "Amplitude of
mind." Milton. "Amplitude of comprehension." Macaulay.
(b) Of extent of means or resources. "Amplitude of reward." Bacon.

3. (Astron.)
(a) The arc of the horizon between the true east or west point and
the center of the sun, or a star, at its rising or setting. At the
rising, the amplitude is eastern or ortive: at the setting, it is
western, occiduous, or occasive. It is also northern or southern,
when north or south of the equator.
(b) The arc of the horizon between the true east or west point and
the foot of the vertical circle passing through any star or object.

4. (Gun.)

Defn: The horizontal line which measures the distance to which a
projectile is thrown; the range.

5. (Physics)

Defn: The extent of a movement measured from the starting point or
position of equilibrium; -- applied especially to vibratory
movements.

6. (math.)

Defn: An angle upon which the value of some function depends; -- a
term used more especially in connection with elliptic functions.
Magnetic amplitude, the angular distance of a heavenly body, when on
the horizon, from the magnetic east or west point as indicated by the
compass. The difference between the magnetic and the true or
astronomical amplitude (see 3 above) is the "variation of the
compass."

AMPLY
Am"ply, adv.

Defn: In an ample manner.

AMPUL
Am"pul, n. Etym: [AS. ampella, ampolla, L. ampulla: cf. OF. ampolle,
F. ampoule.]

Defn: Same as Ampulla, 2.

AMPULLA
Am*pul"la, n.; pl. Ampullæ. Etym: [L. ]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A narrow-necked vessel having two handles and bellying out like
a jug.

2. (Eccl.)
(a) A cruet for the wine and water at Mass.
(b) The vase in which the holy oil for chrism, unction, or coronation
is kept. Shipley.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: Any membranous bag shaped like a leathern bottle, as the
dilated end of a vessel or duct; especially the dilations of the
semicircular canals of the ear.

AMPULLACEOUS
Am`pul*la"ceous, a. Etym: [L. ampullaceus, fr. ampulla.]

Defn: Like a bottle or inflated bladder; bottle-shaped; swelling.
Kirby. Ampullaceous sac (Zoöl.), one of the peculiar cavities in the
tissues of sponges, containing the zooidal cells.

AMPULLAR; AMPULLARY
Am"pul*lar, Am`pul*la*ry, a.

Defn: Resembling an ampulla.

AMPULLATE; AMPULLATED
Am"pul*late, Am"pul*la`ted a.

Defn: Having an ampulla; flask-shaped; bellied.

AMPULLIFORM
Am*pul"li*form, a. Etym: [Ampulla + -form.]

Defn: Flask-shaped; dilated.

AMPUTATE
Am"pu*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amputated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Amputating.] Etym: [L. amputatus, p. p. of amputare: amb- + putare to
prune, putus clean, akin to E. pure. See Putative.]

1. To prune or lop off, as branches or tendrils.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: To cut off (a limb or projecting part (of the body). Wiseman.

AMPUTATION
Am`pu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. amputatio: cf. F. amputation.]

Defn: The act amputating; esp. the operation of cutting of a limb or
projecting part of the body.

AMPUTATOR
Am"pu*ta"tor, n.

Defn: One who amputates.

AMPYX
Am"pyx, n. Etym: [Gr. (Greek Antiq.)

Defn: A woman's headband (sometimes of metal), for binding the front
hair.

AMRITA
Am*ri"ta, n. Etym: [Skr. amrita.] (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: Immorality; also, the nectar conferring immortality.
 -- a. Ambrosial; immortal.

AMSEL; AMZEL
Am"sel, Am"zel, n. Etym: [Ger. See Ousel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European ring ousel (Turdus torquatus).

AMT
Amt, n.; pl. Amter (#), E. Amts (#). [Dan. & Norw., fr. G.]

Defn: An administrative territorial division in Denmark and Norway.

Each of the provinces [of Denmark] is divided into several amts,
answering . . . to the English hundreds.
Encyc. Brit.

AMUCK
A*muck", a. & adv. Etym: [Malay amoq furious.]

Defn: In a frenzied and reckless. To run amuck, to rush out in a
state of frenzy, as the Malays sometimes do under the influence of
"bhang," and attack every one that comes in the way; to assail
recklessly and indiscriminately.
Satire's my weapon, but I'm too discreet To run amuck, and tilt at
all I meet. Pope.

AMULET
Am"u*let, n. Etym: [L. amuletum: cf. F. amulette.]

Defn: An ornament, gem, or scroll, or a package containing a relic,
etc., worn as a charm or preservative against evils or mischief, such
as diseases and witchcraft, and generally inscribed with mystic forms
or characters.

Note: [Also used figuratively.]

AMULETIC
Am`u*let"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an amulet; operating as a charm.

AMURCOUS
A*mur"cous, a. Etym: [LL. amurcous, L. amurca the dregs of olives,
Gr.

Defn: Full off dregs; foul. [R.] Knowles.

AMUSABLE
A*mus"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. amusable.]

Defn: Capable of being amused.

AMUSE
A*muse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amused; p. pr. & vb. n. Amusing.] Etym:
[F. amuser to make stay, to detain, to amuse, ad) + OF. muser. See
Muse, v.]

1. To occupy or engage the attention of; to lose in deep thought; to
absorb; also, to distract; to bewilder. [Obs.]
Camillus set upon the Gauls when they were amused in receiving their
gold. Holland.
Being amused with grief, fear, and fright, he could not find the
house. Fuller.

2. To entertain or occupy in a pleasant manner; to stir with pleasing
or mirthful emotions; to divert.
A group children amusing themselves with pushing stones from the top
[of the cliff], and watching as they plunged into the lake. Gilpin.

3. To keep in extraction; to beguile; to delude.
He amused his followers with idle promises. Johnson.

Syn.
 -- To entertain; gratify; please; divert; beguile; deceive; occupy.
 -- To Amuse, Divert, Entertain. We are amused by that which occupies
us lightly and pleasantly. We are entertained by that which brings
our minds into agreeable contact with others, as conversation, or a
book. We are diverted by that which turns off our thoughts to
something of livelier interest, especially of a sportive nature, as a
humorous story, or a laughable incident.
Whatever amuses serves to kill time, to lull the faculties, and to
banish reflection. Whatever entertains usually a wakens the
understanding or gratifies the fancy. Whatever diverts is lively in
its nature, and sometimes tumultuous in its effects. Crabb.

AMUSE
A*muse", v. i.

Defn: To muse; to mediate. [Obs.]

AMUSED
A*mused", a.

1. Diverted.

2. Expressing amusement; as, an amused look.

AMUSEMENT
A*muse"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. amusement.]

1. Deep thought; muse. [Obs.]
Here I . . . fell into a strong and deep amusement, revolving in my
mind, with great perplexity, the amazing change of our affairs.
Fleetwood.

2. The state of being amused; pleasurable excitement; that which
amuses; diversion.
His favorite amusements were architecture and gardening. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Diversion; entertainment; recreation; relaxation; pastime; sport.

AMUSER
A*mus"er, n.

Defn: One who amuses.

AMUSETTE
Am`u*sette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A light field cannon, or stocked gun mounted on a swivel.

AMUSING
A*mus"ing, a.

Defn: Giving amusement; diverting; as, an amusing story.
 -- A*mus"ing*ly, adv.

AMUSIVE
A*mu"sive, a.

Defn: Having power to amuse or entertain the mind; fitted to excite
mirth. [R.] -- A*mu"sive*ly, adv.
 -- A*mu"sive*ness, n.

AMVIS
Am"vis, n.  [Ammonium (nitrate) + L. vis strength, force.]

Defn: An explosive consisting of ammonium nitrate, a derivative of
nitrobenzene, chlorated napthalene, and wood meal.

AMY
A*my", n. Etym: [F. ami, fr. L. amicus.]

Defn: A friend. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AMYELOUS
A*my"e*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Wanting the spinal cord.

AMYGDALA
A*myg"da*la (a*mig"da*la), n.; pl. -læ (-le). [L., an almond, fr. Gr.
'amygda`lh. See Almond.]

1. An almond.

2.  (Anat.)
 (a) One of the tonsils of the pharynx.
 (b) One of the rounded prominences of the lower surface of the
lateral hemispheres of the cerebellum, each side of the vallecula.

AMYGDALACEOUS
A*myg`da*la"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Akin to, or derived from, the almond.

AMYGDALATE
A*myg"da*late, a. Etym: [L. amygdala, amygdalum, almond, Gr. Almond.]

Defn: Pertaining to, resembling, or made of, almonds.

AMYGDALATE
A*myg"da*late, n.

1. (Med.)

Defn: An emulsion made of almonds; milk of almonds. Bailey. Coxe.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt amygdalic acid.

AMYGDALIC
Am`yg*dal"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to almonds; derived from amygdalin; as,
amygdalic acid.

AMYGDALIFEROUS
A*myg`da*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. amygdalum almond + -ferous.]

Defn: Almond-bearing.

AMYGDALIN
A*myg"da*lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside extracted from bitter almonds as a white,
crystalline substance.

AMYGDALINE
A*myg"da*line, a. Etym: [L. amygdalinus.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, almonds.

AMYGDALOID
A*myg"da*loid, n. Etym: [Gr. -oid: cf. F. amygdaloïde.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of trap or basaltic rock, containing small cavities,
occupied, wholly or in part, by nodules or geodes of different
minerals, esp. agates, quartz, calcite, and the zeolites. When the
imbedded minerals are detached or removed by decomposition, it is
porous, like lava.

AMYGDALOID; AMYGDALOIDAL
A*myg"da*loid, A*myg`da*loid"al, a.

1. Almond-shaped.

2. Pertaining to, or having the nature of, the rock amygdaloid.

AMYL
Am"yl, n. Etym: [L. amylum starch + -yl. Cf. Amidin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon radical, C5H11, of the paraffine series found in
amyl alcohol or fusel oil, etc.

AMYLACEOUS
Am`y*la"ceous, a. Etym: [L. amylum starch, Gr. Amidin.]

Defn: Pertaining to starch; of the nature of starch; starchy.

AMYL ALCOHOL
Am"yl al"co*hol. (Org. Chem.)

Defn: Any of eight isomeric liquid compounds, C5H11OH; ordinarily, a
mixture of two of these forming a colorless liquid with a peculiar
cough-exciting odor and burning taste, the chief constituent of fusel
oil. It is used as a source of amyl compounds, such as amyl acetate,
amyl nitrite, etc.

AMYLATE
Am"y*late, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of the radical amyl with oxygen and a positive atom
or radical.

AMYLENE
Am"y*lene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons, C5H10, of the
ethylene series. The colorless, volatile, mobile liquid commonly
called amylene is a mixture of different members of the group.

AMYLIC
A*myl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, amyl; as, amylic ether. Amylic
alcohol (Chem.), one of the series of alcohols, a transparent,
colorless liquid, having a peculiar odor. It is the hydroxide of
amyl.
 -- Amylic fermentation (Chem.), a process of fermentation in starch
or sugar in which amylic alcohol is produced. Gregory.

AMYL NITRITE
Amyl nitrite.

Defn: A yellowish oily volatile liquid, C5H11NO2, used in medicine as
a heart stimulant and a vasodilator. The inhalation of its vapor
instantly produces flushing of the face.

AMYLOBACTER
Am`y*lo*bac"ter, n. Etym: [L. amylum starch + NL. bacterium. See
Bacterium.] (Biol.)

Defn: A microörganism (Bacillus amylobacter) which develops in
vegetable tissue during putrefaction. Sternberg.

AMYLOGEN
A*myl"o*gen, n.  [Amylum + -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: That part of the starch granule or granulose which is soluble
in water.

AMYLOGENESIS
Am`y*lo*gen"e*sis, n. [Amylum + genesis.]

Defn: The formation of starch.

AMYLOGENIC
Am`y*lo*gen"ic, a.

1. Of or pert. to amylogen.

2.  Forming starch; -- applied specif. to leucoplasts.

AMYLOID
Am"y*loid, n.

1. A non-nitrogenous starchy food; a starchlike substance.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The substance deposited in the organs in amyloid degeneration.

AMYLOID; AMYLOIDAL
Am"y*loid, Am`y*loid"al, a. Etym: [L. amylum starch + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling or containing amyl; starchlike. Amyloid degeneration
(Med.), a diseased condition of various organs of the body, produced
by the deposit of an albuminous substance, giving a blue color with
iodine and sulphuric acid; -- called also waxy or lardaceous
degeneration.

AMYLOLYSIS
Am`y*lol"y*sis, n.  [Amylum + Gr.  a loosing.] (Chem.)

Defn: The conversion of starch into soluble products, as dextrins and
sugar, esp. by the action of enzymes. -- Am`y*lo*lyt"ic (#), a.

AMYLOLYTIC
Am`y*lo*ly"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Effecting the conversion of starch into soluble dextrin and
sugar; as, an amylolytic ferment. Foster.

AMYLOMETER
Am`y*lom"e*ter, n.  [Amylum + -meter.]

Defn: Instrument for determining the amount of starch in a substance.

AMYLOPLASTIC
Am`y*lo*plas"tic, a.  [Amylum + -plastic.]

Defn: Starch-forming; amylogenic.

AMYLOPSIN
Am`y*lop"sin, n.  [Amylum + Gr.  appearance.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The diastase of the pancreatic juice.

AMYLOSE
Am`y*lose", n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of the starch group (C6H10O5)n of the carbohydrates; as,
starch, arabin, dextrin, cellulose, etc.

AMYOUS
Am"y*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Wanting in muscle; without flesh.

AMYSS
Am"yss, n.

Defn: Same as Amice, a hood or cape.

AN
An. Etym: [AS. an one, the same word as the numeral. See One, and cf.
A.]

Defn: This word is properly an adjective, but is commonly called the
indefinite article. It is used before nouns of the singular number
only, and signifies one, or any, but somewhat less emphatically. In
such expressions as "twice an hour," "once an age," a shilling an
ounce (see 2d A, 2), it has a distributive force, and is equivalent
to each, every.

Note: An is used before a word beginning with a vowel sound; as, an
enemy, an hour. It in also often used before h sounded, when the
accent of the word falls on the second syllable; as, an historian, an
hyena, an heroic deed. Many writers use a before h in such positions.
Anciently an was used before consonants as well as vowels.

AN
An, conj. Etym: [Shortened fr. and, OE. an., and, sometimes and if,
in introducing conditional clauses, like Icel. enda if, the same word
as and. Prob. and was originally pleonastic before the conditional
clause.]

Defn: If; -- a word used by old English authors. Shak.
Nay, an thou dalliest, then I am thy foe. B. Jonson.
An if, and if; if.

ANA-
An"a-. Etym: [/Gr. in comp., on, up, upwards.]

Defn: A prefix in words from the Greek, denoting up, upward,
throughout, backward, back, again, anew.

ANA
A"na, adv. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Of each; an equal quantity; as, wine and honey, ana (or,
contracted, aa), ., that is, of wine and honey, each, two ounces.
An apothecary with a . . . long bill of anas. Dryden.

ANA
*a"na. Etym: [The neut. pl. ending of Latin adjectives in -anus.]

Defn: A suffix to names of persons or places, used to denote a
collection of notable sayings, literary gossip, anecdotes, etc. Thus,
Scaligerana is a book containing the sayings of Scaliger, Johnsoniana
of Johnson, etc.

Note: Used also as a substantive; as, the French anas.
It has been said that the table-talk of Selden is worth all the ana
of the Continent. Hallam.

-ANA
-a"na. [The neut. pl. ending of Latin adjectives in -anus.]

Defn: A suffix to names of persons or places, used to denote a
collection of notable sayings, literary gossip, anecdotes, etc. Thus,
Scaligerana is a book containing the sayings of Scaliger, Johnsoniana
of Johnson, etc.

Used also as a substantive; as, the French anas.

It has been said that the table-talk of Selden is worth all the ana
of the Continent.
Hallam.

ANABAPTISM
An`a*bap"tism, n. Etym: [L. anabaptismus, Gr. anabaptisme. See
Anabaptize.]

Defn: The doctrine of the Anabaptists.

ANABAPTIST
An`a*bap"tist, n. Etym: [LL. anabaptista, fr. Gr. as if : cf. F.
anabaptiste.]

Defn: A name sometimes applied to a member of any sect holding that
rebaptism is necessary for those baptized in infancy.

Note: In church history, the name Anabaptists usually designates a
sect of fanatics who greatly disturbed the peace of Germany, the
Netherlands, etc., in the Reformation period. In more modern times
the name has been applied to those who do not regard infant baptism
as real and valid baptism.

ANABAPTISTIC; ANABAPTISTICAL
An`a*bap*tis"tic, An`a*bap*tis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Relating or attributed to the Anabaptists, or their doctrines.
Milton. Bp. Bull.

ANABAPTISTRY
An`a*bap"tist*ry, n.

Defn: The doctrine, system, or practice, of Anabaptists. [R.]
Thus died this imaginary king; and Anabaptistry was suppressed in
Munster. Pagitt.

ANABAPTIZE
An`a*bap*tize", v. t. Etym: [Gr. Baptize.]

Defn: To rebaptize; to rechristen; also, to rename. [R.] Whitlock.

ANABAS
An"a*bas, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fishes, remarkable for their power of living long
out of water, and of making their way on land for considerable
distances, and for climbing trees; the climbing fishes.

ANABASIS
A*nab"a*sis, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A journey or expedition up from the coast, like that of the
younger Cyrus into Central Asia, described by Xenophon in his work
called "The Anabasis."
The anabasis of Napoleon. De Quincey.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The first period, or increase, of a disease; augmentation.
[Obs.]

ANABATIC
An`a*bat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to anabasis; as, an anabatic fever. [Obs.]

ANABOLIC
An`a*bol"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Pertaining to anabolism; an anabolic changes, or processes,
more or less constructive in their nature.

ANABOLISM
A*nab"o*lism, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The constructive metabolism of the body, as distinguished from
katabolism.

ANABRANCH
An"a*branch, n. [Anastomosing + branch.]

Defn: A branch of a river that reënters, or anastomoses with, the
main stream; also, less properly, a branch which loses itself in
sandy soil. [Australia]

Such branches of a river as after separation reunite, I would term
anastomosing branches; or, if a word might be coined, anabranches,
and the islands they form branch islands.
Col. Jackson.

ANACAMPTIC
An`a*camp"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Reflecting of reflected; as, an anacamptic sound (and echo).

Note: The word was formerly applied to that part of optics which
treats of reflection; the same as what is now called catoptric. See
Catoptrics.

ANACAMPTICALLY
An`a*camp"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By reflection; as, echoes are sound produced anacamptically.
Hutton.

ANACAMPTICS
An`a*camp"tics, n.

1. The science of reflected light, now called catoptrics.

2. The science of reflected sounds.

ANACANTHINI; ANACANTHS
An`a*can"thi*ni, An"a*canths, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of teleostean fishes destitute of spiny fin-rays, as
the cod.

ANACANTHOUS
An`a*can"thous, a.

Defn: Spineless, as certain fishes.

ANACARDIACEOUS
An`a*car"di*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, a family, or order, of plants of
which the cashew tree is the type, and the species of sumac are well
known examples.

ANACARDIC
An`a*car"dic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the cashew nut; as, anacardic
acid.

ANACARDIUM
An`a*car"di*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants including the cashew tree. See Cashew.

ANACATHARTIC
An`a*ca*thar"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. i. e., by vomiting; Cathartic.]
(Med.)

Defn: Producing vomiting or expectoration.
 -- n.

Defn: An anacatharic medicine; an expectorant or an emetic.

ANACHARIS
An*ach"a*ris, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A fresh-water weed of the frog's-bit family (Hydrocharidaceæ),
native to America. Transferred to England it became an obstruction to
navigation. Called also waterweed and water thyme.

ANACHORET; ANACHORETICAL
An*ach"o*ret, n. An*ach`o*ret"ic*al, a.

Defn: See Anchoret, Anchoretic. [Obs.]

ANACHORISM
An*ach"o*rism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An error in regard to the place of an event or a thing; a
referring something to a wrong place. [R.]

ANACHRONIC; ANACHRONICAL
An`a*chron"ic, An`a*chron"ic*al, a.

Defn: Characterized by, or involving, anachronism; anachronistic.

ANACHRONISM
An*ach"ro*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. anachronisme.]

Defn: A misplacing or error in the order of time; an error in
chronology by which events are misplaced in regard to each other,
esp. one by which an event is placed too early; falsification of
chronological relation.

ANACHRONISTIC
An*ach`ro*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Erroneous in date; containing an anachronism. T. Warton.

ANACHRONIZE
An*ach"ro*nize, v. t. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To refer to, or put into, a wrong time. [R.] Lowell.

ANACHRONOUS
An*ach"ro*nous, a.

Defn: Containing an anachronism; anachronistic.
 -- An*ach"ro*nous*ly, adv.

ANACLASTIC
An`a*clas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Opt.)

Defn: Produced by the refraction of light, as seen through water; as,
anaclastic curves.

2. Springing back, as the bottom of an anaclastic glass. Anaclastic
glass, a glass or phial, shaped like an inverted funnel, and with a
very thin convex bottom. By sucking out a little air, the bottom
springs into a concave form with a smart crack; and by breathing or
blowing gently into the orifice, the bottom, with a like noise,
springs into its former convex form.

ANACLASTICS
An`a*clas"tics, n. (Opt.)

Defn: That part of optics which treats of the refraction of light; --
commonly called dioptrics. Encyc. Brit.

ANACOENOSIS
An`a*coe*no"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure by which a speaker appeals to his hearers or opponents
for their opinion on the point in debate. Walker.

ANACOLUTHIC
An`a*co*lu"thic, a.

Defn: Lacking grammatical sequence.
 -- An`a*co*lu"thic*al*ly, adv.

ANACOLUTHON
An`a*co*lu"thon, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: A want of grammatical sequence or coherence in a sentence; an
instance of a change of construction in a sentence so that the latter
part does not syntactically correspond with the first part.

ANACONDA
An`a*con"da, n. Etym: [Of Ceylonese origin] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large South American snake of the Boa family (Eunectes
murinus), which lives near rivers, and preys on birds and small
mammals. The name is also applied to a similar large serpent (Python
tigris) of Ceylon.

ANACREONTIC
A*nac`re*on"tic, a. Etym: [L. Anacreonticus.]

Defn: Pertaining to, after the manner of, or in the meter of, the
Greek poet Anacreon; amatory and convivial. De Quincey.

ANACREONTIC
A*nac`re*on"tic, n.

Defn: A poem after the manner of Anacreon; a sprightly little poem in
praise of love and wine.

ANACROTIC
An`a*crot"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Pertaining to anachronism.

ANACROTISM
A*nac"ro*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A secondary notch in the pulse curve, obtained in a
sphygmographic tracing.

ANACRUSIS
An`a*cru"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: A prefix of one or two unaccented syllables to a verse properly
beginning with an accented syllable.

ANADEM
An"a*dem, n. Etym: [L. anadema, Gr.

Defn: A garland or fillet; a chaplet or wreath. Drayton. Tennyson.

ANADIPLOSIS
An`a*di*plo"sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A repetition of the last word or any prominent word in a
sentence or clause, at the beginning of the next, with an adjunct
idea; as, "He retained his virtues amidst all his misfortunes --
misfortunes which no prudence could foresee or prevent."

ANADROM
An"a*drom, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anadrome.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish that leaves the sea and ascends rivers.

ANADROMOUS
A*nad"ro*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Ascending rivers from the sea, at certain seasons, for
breeding, as the salmon, shad, etc.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Tending upwards; -- said of terns in which the lowest secondary
segments are on the upper side of the branch of the central stem. D.
C. Eaton.

ANAEMIA
A*næ"mi*a, a. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition in which the blood is deficient in quality
or in quantity.

ANAEMIC
A*næm"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anæmia.

ANAEROBIA; ANAEROBES
An*a`ër*o"bi*a, An*a"ër*obes, n. pl. [NL. anaerobia; an-not + aëro- +
Gr. life.] (Bacteriol.)

Defn: Anaërobic bacteria. They are called facultative anaërobia when
able to live either in the presence or absence of free oxygen;
obligate, or obligatory, anaërobia when they thrive only in its
absence.

ANAEROBIC
An*a`ë*rob"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to, or like, anaërobies; araërobiotic.

ANAEROBIES
An*a"ër*o*bies, n. pl. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Microörganisms which do not require oxygen, but are killed by
it. Sternberg.

ANAEROBIOTIC
An*a`ër*o*bi*ot"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Related to, or of the nature of, anaërobies.

ANAESTHESIA
An`æs*the"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. anesthésie. See Æsthetics.]
(Med.)

Defn: Entire or partial loss or absence of feeling or sensation; a
state of general or local insensibility produced by disease or by the
inhalation or application of an anæsthetic.

ANAESTHESIS
An`æs*the"sis, n.

Defn: See Anæsthesia.

ANAESTHETIC
An`æs*thet"ic, a. (Med.)
(a) Capable of rendering insensible; as, anæsthetic agents.
(b) Characterized by, or connected with, insensibility; as, an
anæsthetic effect or operation.

ANAESTHETIC
An`æs*thet"ic, n. (Med.)

Defn: That which produces insensibility to pain, as chloroform,
ether, etc.

ANAESTHETIZATION
An*æs`the*ti*za"tion, n.

Defn: The process of anæsthetizing; also, the condition of the
nervous system induced by anæsthetics.

ANAESTHETIZE
An*æs"the*tize, v. t. (Med.)

Defn: To render insensible by an anæsthetic. Encyc. Brit.

ANAGLYPH
An"a*glyph, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Any sculptured, chased, or embossed ornament worked in low
relief, as a cameo.

ANAGLYPHIC
An`a*glyph"ic, n.

Defn: Work chased or embossed relief.

ANAGLYPHIC; ANAGLYPHICAL
An`a*glyph"ic, An`a*glyph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the art of chasing or embossing in relief;
anaglyptic; -- opposed to diaglyptic or sunk work.

ANAGLYPTIC
An`a*glyp"tic, a. Etym: [L. anaglypticus, Gr. Anaglyph.]

Defn: Relating to the art of carving, enchasing, or embossing in low
relief.

ANAGLYPTICS
An`a*glyp"tics, n.

Defn: The art of carving in low relief, embossing, etc.

ANAGLYPTOGRAPH
An`a*glyp"to*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: An instrument by which a correct engraving of any embossed
object, such as a medal or cameo, can be executed. Brande & C.

ANAGLYPTOGRAPHIC
An`a*glyp`to*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anaglyptography; as, analyptographic
engraving.

ANAGLYPTOGRAPHY
An`a*glyp*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The art of copying works in relief, or of engraving as to give
the subject an embossed or raised appearance; -- used in representing
coins, bas-reliefs, etc.

ANAGNORISIS
An`ag*nor"i*sis, n. Etym: [Latinized fr. Gr.

Defn: The unfolding or dénouement. [R.] De Quincey.

ANAGOGE
An`a*go"ge, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. An elevation of mind to things celestial.

2. The spiritual meaning or application; esp. the application of the
types and allegories of the Old Testament to subjects of the New.

ANAGOGIC; ANAGOGICAL
An`a*gog"ic, An`a*gog"ic*al, a.

Defn: Mystical; having a secondary spiritual meaning; as, the rest of
the Sabbath, in an anagogical sense, signifies the repose of the
saints in heaven; an anagogical explication.
 -- An`a*gog"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANAGOGICS
An`a*gog"ics, n. pl.

Defn: Mystical interpretations or studies, esp. of the Scriptures. L.
Addison.

ANAGOGY
An"a*go`gy, n.

Defn: Same as Anagoge.

ANAGRAM
An"a*gram, n. Etym: [F. anagramme, LL. anagramma, fr. Gr. Graphic.]

Defn: Literally, the letters of a word read backwards, but in its
usual wider sense, the change or one word or phrase into another by
the transposition of its letters. Thus Galenus becomes angelus;
William Noy (attorney-general to Charles I., and a laborious man) may
be turned into I moyl in law.

ANAGRAM
An"a*gram, v. t.

Defn: To anagrammatize.
Some of these anagramed his name, Benlowes, into Benevolus.
Warburton.

ANAGRAMMATIC; ANAGRAMMATICAL
An`a*gram*mat"ic, An`a*gram*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
anagramtique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, containing, or making, anagram.
 -- An`a*gram*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANAGRAMMATISM
An`a*gram"ma*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. anagrammatisme.]

Defn: The act or practice of making anagrams. Camden.

ANAGRAMMATIST
An`a*gram"ma*tist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anagrammatiste.]

Defn: A maker anagrams.

ANAGRAMMATIZE
An`a*gram"ma*tize, v. t. Etym: [Gr. anagrammatiser.]

Defn: To transpose, as the letters of a word, so as to form an
anagram. Cudworth.

ANAGRAPH
An"a*graph, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An inventory; a record. [Obs.] Knowles.

ANAKIM; ANAKS
An"a*kim, A"naks, n. pl. Etym: [Heb.] (Bibl.)

Defn: A race of giants living in Palestine.

ANAL
A"nal, a. Etym: [From Anus.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or situated near, the anus; as, the anal fin or
glands.

ANALCIME
A*nal"cime, n. Etym: [Gr. analcime.] (Min.)

Defn: A white or flesh-red mineral, of the zeolite, occurring in
isometric crystals. By friction, it acquires a weak electricity;
hence its name.

ANALCITE
A*nal"cite, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Analcime.

ANALECTIC
An`a*lec"tic, a.

Defn: Relating to analects; made up of selections; as, an analectic
magazine.

ANALECTS; ANALECTA
An"a*lects, An`a*lec"ta, n. pl. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A collection of literary fragments.

ANALEMMA
An`a*lem"ma, n. Etym: [L. analemma a sun dial on a pedestal, showing
the latitude and meridian of a place, Gr.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: An orthographic projection of the sphere on the plane of the
meridian, the eye being supposed at an infinite distance, and in the
east or west point of the horizon.

2. An instrument of wood or brass, on which this projection of the
sphere is made, having a movable horizon or cursor; -- formerly much
used in solving some common astronomical problems.

3. A scale of the sun's declination for each day of the year, drawn
across the torrid zone on an artificial terrestrial globe.

ANALEPSIS; ANALEPSY
An"a*lep"sis, An"a*lep"sy, Etym: [Gr. Analemma.] (Med.)
(a) Recovery of strength after sickness.
(b) A species of epileptic attack, originating from gastric disorder.

ANALEPTIC
An"a*lep"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. analeptique. See Analepsis.] (Med.)

Defn: Restorative; giving strength after disease.
 -- n.

Defn: A restorative.

ANALGEN; ANALGENE
An*al"gen, An*al"gene, n. [Gr.  painless.]

Defn: A crystalline compound used as an antipyretic and analgesic,
employed chiefly in rheumatism and neuralgia. It is a complex
derivative of quinoline.

ANALGESIA
An`al*ge"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Absence of sensibility to pain. Quain.

ANALLAGMATIC
An`al*lag*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Math.)

Defn: Not changed in form by inversion. Anallagmatic curves, a class
of curves of the fourth degree which have certain peculiar relations
to circles; -- sometimes called bicircular quartics.
 -- Anallagmatic surfaces, a certain class of surfaces of the fourth
degree.

ANALLANTOIC
An`al*lan*to"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Without, or not developing, an allantois.

ANALLANTOIDEA
An`al*lan*toid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [Gr. allantoidea.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of Vertebrata in which no allantois is developed.
It includes amphibians, fishes, and lower forms.

ANALOGAL
A*nal"o*gal, a.

Defn: Analogous. [Obs.] Donne.

ANALOGIC
An`a*log"ic, a. Etym: [See Analogous.]

Defn: Of or belonging to analogy. Geo. Eliot.

ANALOGICAL
An`a*log"ic*al, a.

1. Founded on, or of the nature of, analogy; expressing or implying
analogy.
When a country which has sent out colonies is termed the mother
country, the expression is analogical. J. S. Mill.

2. Having analogy; analogous. Sir M. Hale.

ANALOGICALLY
An`a*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an analogical sense; in accordance with analogy; by way of
similitude.
A prince is analogically styled a pilot, being to the state as a
pilot is to the vessel. Berkeley.

ANALOGICALNESS
An`a*log"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being analogical.

ANALOGISM
A*nal"o*gism, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. Logic

Defn: an argument from the cause to the effect; an a priori argument.
Johnson.

2. Investigation of things by the analogy they bear to each other.
Crabb.

ANALOGIST
A*nal"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who reasons from analogy, or represent, by analogy. Cheyne.

ANALOGIZE
A*nal"o*gize, v. i.

Defn: To employ, or reason by, analogy.

ANALOGON
A*nal"o*gon, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Analogue.

ANALOGOUS
A*nal"o*gous, a. Etym: [L. analogous, Gr. Logic.]

Defn: Having analogy; corresponding to something else; bearing some
resemblance or proportion; -- often followed by to.
Analogous tendencies in arts and manners. De Quincey.
Decay of public spirit, which may be considered analogous to natural
death. J. H. Newman.
nalogous pole (Pyroelect.), that pole of a crystal which becomes
positively electrified when heated.

Syn.
 -- Correspondent; similar; like.
 -- A*nal"o gous*ly, adv.
 -- A*nal"o*gous*ness, n.

ANALOGUE
An"a*logue, n. Etym: [F.

1. That which is analogous to, or corresponds with, some other thing.
The vexatious tyranny of the individual despot meets its analogue in
the insolent tyranny of the many. I. Taylor.

2. (Philol.)

Defn: A word in one language corresponding with one in another; an
analogous term; as, the Latin "pater" is the analogue of the English
"father."

3. (Nat. Hist.)
(a) An organ which is equivalent in its functions to a different
organ in another species or group, or even in the same group; as, the
gill of a fish is the analogue of a lung in a quadruped, although the
two are not of like structural relations.
(b) A species in one genus or group having its characters parallel,
one by one, with those of another group.
(c) A species or genus in one country closely related to a species of
the same genus, or a genus of the same group, in another: such
species are often called representative species, and such genera,
representative genera. Dana.

ANALOGY
A*nal"o*gy, n.; pl. Analogies. Etym: [L. analogia, Gr. analogie. See
Analogous.]

1. A resemblance of relations; an agreement or likeness between
things in some circumstances or effects, when the things are
otherwise entirely different. Thus, learning enlightens the mind,
because it is to the mind what light is to the eye, enabling it to
discover things before hidden.

Note: Followed by between, to, or with; as, there is an analogy
between these objects, or one thing has an analogy to or with
another.

Note: Analogy is very commonly used to denote similarity or essential
resemblance; but its specific meaning is a similarity of relations,
and in this consists the difference between the argument from example
and that from analogy. In the former, we argue from the mere
similarity of two things; in the latter, from the similarity of their
relations. Karslake.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A relation or correspondence in function, between organs or
parts which are decidedly different.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: Proportion; equality of ratios.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: Conformity of words to the genius, structure, or general rules
of a language; similarity of origin, inflection, or principle of
pronunciation, and the like, as opposed to pl. analogies. Johnson.

ANALYSE; ANALYSER
An"a*lyse, v., An"a*ly`ser, n., etc.

Defn: Same as Analyze, Analyzer, etc.

ANALYSIS
A*nal"y*sis, n.; pl. Analyses. Etym: [Gr. Loose.]

1. A resolution of anything, whether an object of the senses or of
the intellect, into its constituent or original elements; an
examination of the component parts of a subject, each separately, as
the words which compose a sentence, the tones of a tune, or the
simple propositions which enter into an argument. It is opposed to
synthesis.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The separation of a compound substance, by chemical processes,
into its constituents, with a view to ascertain either (a) what
elements it contains, or (b) how much of each element is present. The
former is called qualitative, and the latter quantitative analysis.

3. (Logic)

Defn: The tracing of things to their source, and the resolving of
knowledge into its original principles.

4. (Math.)

Defn: The resolving of problems by reducing the conditions that are
in them to equations.

5.
(a) A syllabus, or table of the principal heads of a discourse,
disposed in their natural order.
(b) A brief, methodical illustration of the principles of a science.
In this sense it is nearly synonymous with synopsis.

6. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: The process of ascertaining the name of a species, or its place
in a system of classification, by means of an analytical table or
key. Ultimate, Proximate, Qualitative, Quantitative, and Volumetric
analysis. (Chem.) See under Ultimate, Proximate, Qualitative, etc.

ANALYST
An"a*lyst, n. Etym: [F. analyste. See Analysis.]

Defn: One who analyzes; formerly, one skilled in algebraical
geometry; now commonly, one skilled in chemical analysis.

ANALYTIC; ANALYTICAL
An`a*lyt"ic, An`a*lyt"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. analytique. See Analysis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to analysis; resolving into elements or
constituent parts; as, an analytical experiment; analytic reasoning;
-- opposed to synthetic. Analytical or coördinate geometry. See under
Geometry.
 -- Analytic language, a noninflectional language or one not
characterized by grammatical endings.
 -- Analytical table (Nat. Hist.), a table in which the
characteristics of the species or other groups are arranged so as to
facilitate the determination of their names.

ANALYTICALLY
An`a*lyt"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an analytical manner.

ANALYTICS
An`a*lyt"ics, n.

Defn: The science of analysis.

ANALYZABLE
An"a*ly`za*ble, a.

Defn: That may be analyzed.

ANALYZATION
An`a*ly*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of analyzing, or separating into constituent parts;
analysis.

ANALYZE
An"a*lyze, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Analyzed; p. pr. & vb. n. Analyzing.]
Etym: [Cf. F. analyser. See Analysis.]

Defn: To subject to analysis; to resolve (anything complex) into its
elements; to separate into the constituent parts, for the purpose of
an examination of each separately; to examine in such a manner as to
ascertain the elements or nature of the thing examined; as, to
analyze a fossil substance; to analyze a sentence or a word; to
analyze an action to ascertain its morality.
No one, I presume, can analyze the sensations of pleasure or pain.
Darwin.

ANALYZER
An"a*ly`zer, n.

1. One who, or that which, analyzes.

2. (Opt.)

Defn: The part of a polariscope which receives the light after
polarization, and exhibits its properties.

ANAMESE
An`a*mese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Anam, to southeastern Asia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Anam.

ANAMNESIS
An`am*ne"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A recalling to mind; recollection.

ANAMNESTIC
An`am*nes"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Aiding the memory; as, anamnestic remedies.

ANAMNIOTIC
An*am`ni*ot"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Without, or not developing, an amnion.

ANAMORPHISM
An`a*mor"phism, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A distorted image.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A gradual progression from one type to another, generally
ascending. Huxley.

ANAMORPHOSCOPE
An`a*mor"pho*scope, n. [Anamorphosis + -scope.]

Defn: An instrument for restoring a picture or image distorted by
anamorphosis to its normal proportions. It usually consists of a
cylindrical mirror.

ANAMORPHOSIS
An`a*mor"pho*sis, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Persp.)

Defn: A distorted or monstrous projection or representation of an
image on a plane or curved surface, which, when viewed from a certain
point, or as reflected from a curved mirror or through a polyhedron,
appears regular and in proportion; a deformation of an image.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Anamorphism, 2.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A morbid or monstrous development, or change of form, or
degeneration.

ANAMORPHOSY
An`a*mor"pho*sy, n.

Defn: Same as Anamorphosis.

ANAN
A*nan", interj. Etym: [See Anon.]

Defn: An expression equivalent to What did you say Sir Eh [Obs.]
Shak.

ANANAS
A*na"nas, n. Etym: [Sp. ananas, from the native American name.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The pineapple (Ananassa sativa).

ANANDROUS
An*an"drous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of stamen

ANANGULAR
An*an"gu*lar, a. Etym: [Gr. angular.]

Defn: Containing no angle. [R.]

ANANTHEROUS
An*an"ther*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. anther.] (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of anthers. Gray.

ANANTHOUS
An*an"thous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of flowers; flowerless.

ANAPAEST; ANAPAESTIC
An`a*pæst, An`a*pæs"tic.

Defn: Same as Anapest, Anapestic.

ANAPEST
An"a*pest, n. Etym: [L. anapaestus, Gr. i.e., a dactyl reserved, or,
as it were, struck back; fr.

1. (Pros.)

Defn: A metrical foot consisting of three syllables, the first two
short, or unaccented, the last long, or accented; the reverse of the
dactyl. In Latin d, and in English in-ter-vene, are examples of
anapests.

2. A verse composed of such feet.

ANAPESTIC
An`a*pes"tic, a. Etym: [L. anapaesticus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to an anapest; consisting of an anapests; as, an
anapestic meter, foot, verse.
 -- n.

Defn: Anapestic measure or verse.

ANAPESTICAL
An`a*pes"tic*al, a.

Defn: Anapestic.

ANAPHORA
A*naph"o*ra, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A repetition of a word or of words at the beginning of two or
more successive clauses.

ANAPHRODISIA
An*aph`ro*dis"i*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Absence of sexual appetite.

ANAPHRODISIAC
An*aph`ro*dis"i*ac, a. & n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Antaphrodisiac. Dunglison.

ANAPHRODITIC
An*aph`ro*dit"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Produced without concourse of sexes.

ANAPLASTIC
An`a*plas"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anaplasty.

ANAPLASTY
An`a*plas`ty, n. Etym: [Gr. anaplastie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The art of operation of restoring lost parts or the normal
shape by the use of healthy tissue.

ANAPLEROTIC
An`a*ple*rot"ic, a. Etym: [L. anapleroticus, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Filling up; promoting granulation of wounds or ulcers.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy which promotes such granulation.

ANAPNOGRAPH
A*nap"no*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: A form of spirometer.

ANAPNOIC
An`ap*no"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Relating to respiration.

ANAPODEICTIC
An*ap`o*deic"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. Apodeictic.]

Defn: Not apodeictic; undemonstrable. [R.]

ANAPOPHYSIS
An`a*poph"y*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: An accessory process in many lumbar vertebræ.

ANAPTOTIC
An`ap*tot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having lost, or tending to lose, inflections by phonetic decay;
as, anaptotic languages.

ANAPTYCHUS
An*ap"ty*chus, n.; pl. Anaptichi. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: One of a pair of shelly plates found in some cephalopods, as
the ammonites.

ANARCH
An"arch, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The author of anarchy; one who excites revolt. Milton.
Imperial anarchs doubling human woes. Byron.

ANARCHAL
A*nar"chal, a.

Defn: Lawless; anarchical. [R.]
We are in the habit of calling those bodies of men anarchal which are
in a state of effervescence. Landor.

ANARCHIC; ANARCHICAL
A*nar"chic, A*nar"chic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. anarchique.]

Defn: Pertaining to anarchy; without rule or government; in political
confusion; tending to produce anarchy; as, anarchic despotism;
anarchical opinions.

ANARCHISM
An"arch*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anarchisme.]

Defn: The doctrine or practice of anarchists.

ANARCHIST
An"arch*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anarchiste.]

Defn: An anarch; one who advocates anarchy of aims at the overthrow
of civil government.

ANARCHIZE
An"arch*ize, v. t.

Defn: To reduce to anarchy.

ANARCHY
An"arch*y, n. Etym: [Gr. anarchie. See Anarch.]

1. Absence of government; the state of society where there is no law
or supreme power; a state of lawlessness; political confusion.
Spread anarchy and terror all around. Cowper.

2. Hence, confusion or disorder, in general.
There being then . . . an anarchy, as I may term it, in authors and
their reFuller.

ANARTHROPODA
An`ar*throp"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -poda. See Anarthrous.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the divisions of Articulata in which there are no
jointed legs, as the annelids; -- opposed to Arthropoda.

ANARTHROPODOUS
An`ar*throp"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having no jointed legs; pertaining to Anarthropoda.

ANARTHROUS
An*ar"throus, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Gr. Gram.)

Defn: Used without the article; as, an anarthrous substantive.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without joints, or having the joints indistinct, as some
insects.

ANAS
A"nas, n. Etym: [L., duck.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of water fowls, of the order Anseres, including certain
species of fresh-water ducks.

ANASARCA
An`a*sar"ca, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue; an effusion of
serum into the cellular substance, occasioning a soft, pale,
inelastic swelling of the skin.

ANASARCOUS
An`a*sar"cous, a.

Defn: Belonging, or affected by, anasarca, or dropsy; dropsical.
Wiseman.

ANASEISMIC
An`a*seis"mic, a. [Cf. Gr.  a shaking up and down.]

Defn: Moving up and down; -- said of earthquake shocks.

ANASTALTIC
An`a*stal"tic, a. & n. Etym: [Gr. fitted for checking, fr. (Med.)

Defn: Styptic. [Obs.] Coxe.

ANASTATE
An"a*state, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: One of a series of substances formed, in secreting cells, by
constructive or anabolic processes, in the production of protoplasm;
-- opposed to katastate. Foster.

ANASTATIC
An`a*stat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to a process or a style of printing from characters
in relief on zinc plates.

Note: In this process the letterpress, engraving, or design of any
kind is transferred to a zinc plate; the parts not covered with ink
are eaten out, leaving a facsimile in relief to be printed from.

ANASTIGMATIC
An*as`tig*mat"ic, a. [Pref. an-not + astigmatic.] (Optics)

Defn: Not astigmatic; --said esp. of a lens system which consists of
a converging lens and a diverging lens of equal and opposite
astigmatism but different focal lengths, and sensibly free from
astigmatism.

ANASTOMOSE
A*nas"to*mose, v. i. [imp. p. p. Anastomozed; p. pr. Anastomosing.]
Etym: [Cf. F. anastomoser, fr. anastomose. See Anastomosis.] (Anat. &
Bot.)

Defn: To inosculate; to intercommunicate by anastomosis, as the
arteries and veins.
The ribbing of the leaf, and the anastomosing network of its vessels.
I. Taylor.

ANASTOMOSIS
A*nas`to*mo"sis, n.; pl. Anastomoses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
anastomose.] (Anat. & Bot.)

Defn: The inosculation of vessels, or intercommunication between two
or more vessels or nerves, as the cross communication between
arteries or veins.

ANASTOMOTIC
A*nas`to*mot"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anastomosis.

ANASTROPHE
A*nas"tro*phe, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet. & Gram.)

Defn: An inversion of the natural order of words; as, echoed the
hills, for, the hills echoed.

ANATHEMA
A*nath"e*ma, n.; pl. Anathemas. Etym: [L. anath, fr. Gr. anath, fr.
Gr. Thesis.]

1. A ban or curse pronounced with religious solemnity by
ecclesiastical authority, and accompanied by excommunication. Hence:
Denunciation of anything as accursed.
[They] denounce anathemas against unbelievers. Priestley.

2. An imprecation; a curse; a malediction.
Finally she fled to London followed by the anathemas of both
[families]. Thackeray.

3. Any person or thing anathematized, or cursed by ecclesiastical
authority.
The Jewish nation were an anathema destined to destruction. St. Paul
. . . says he could wish, to save them from it, to become an
anathema, and be destroyed himself. Locke.
Anathema Maranatha Etym: (see 1 Cor. xvi. 22), an expression commonly
considered as a highly intensified form of anathema. Maran atha is
now considered as a separate sentence, meaning, "Our Lord cometh."

ANATHEMATIC; ANATHEMATICAL
A*nath`e*mat"ic, A*nath`e*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an anathema.
 -- A*nath`e*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANATHEMATISM
A*nath"e*ma*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. anathématisme.]

Defn: Anathematization. [Obs.]
We find a law of Justinian forbidding anathematisms to be pronounced
against the Jewish Hellenists. J. Taylor.

ANATHEMATIZATION
A*nath`e*ma*ti*za"tion, n. Etym: [LL. anathematisatio.]

Defn: The act of anathematizing, or denouncing as accursed;
imprecation. Barrow.

ANATHEMATIZE
A*nath"e*ma*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anathematized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anathematizing.] Etym: [L. anathematizare, Gr. anathématiser.]

Defn: To pronounce an anathema against; to curse. Hence: To condemn
publicly as something accursed. Milton.

ANATHEMATIZER
A*nath"e*ma*ti`zer, n.

Defn: One who pronounces an anathema. Hammond.

ANATIFA
A*nat"i*fa, n.; pl. Anatifæ. Etym: [NL., contr. fr. anatifera. See
Anatiferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal of the barnacle tribe, of the genus Lepas, having a
fleshy stem or peduncle; a goose barnacle. See Cirripedia.

Note: The term Anatifæ, in the plural, is often used for the whole
group of pedunculated cirripeds.

ANATIFER
A*nat"i*fer,, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Anatifa.

ANATIFEROUS
An`a*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. anas, anatis, a duck + -ferous.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Producing ducks; -- applied to Anatifæ, under the absurd notion
of their turning into ducks or geese. See Barnacle.

ANATINE
An"a*tine, a. Etym: [L. anatinus, fr. anas, anatis, a duck.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ducks; ducklike.

ANATOCISM
A*nat"o*cism, n. Etym: [L. anatocismus, Gr. (Law)

Defn: Compound interest. [R.] Bouvier.

ANATOMIC; ANATOMICAL
An`a*tom"ic, An`a*tom"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. anatomicus, Gr. anatomique.
See Anatomy.]

Defn: Of or relating to anatomy or dissection; as, the anatomic art;
anatomical observations. Hume.

ANATOMICALLY
An`a*tom"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anatomical manner; by means of dissection.

ANATOMISM
A*nat"o*mism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anatomisme.]

1. The application of the principles of anatomy, as in art.
The stretched and vivid anatomism of their [i. e., the French] great
figure painters. The London Spectator.

2. The doctrine that the anatomical structure explains all the
phenomena of the organism or of animal life.

ANATOMIST
A*nat"o*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anatomiste.]

Defn: One who is skilled in the art of anatomy, or dissection.

ANATOMIZATION
A*nat`o*mi*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of anatomizing.

ANATOMIZE
A*nat"o*mize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anatomized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anatomizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. anatomiser.]

1. To dissect; to cut in pieces, as an animal vegetable body, for the
purpose of displaying or examining the structure and use of the
several parts.

2. To discriminate minutely or carefully; to analyze.
If we anatomize all other reasonings of this nature, we shall find
that they are founded on the relation of cause and effect. Hume.

ANATOMIZER
A*nat"o*mi`zer, n.

Defn: A dissector.

ANATOMY
A*nat"o*my, n.; pl. Anatomies. Etym: [F. anatomie, L. anatomia, Gr.

1. The art of dissecting, or artificially separating the different
parts of any organized body, to discover their situation, structure,
and economy; dissection.

2. The science which treats of the structure of organic bodies;
anatomical structure or organization.
Let the muscles be well inserted and bound together, according to the
knowledge of them which is given us by anatomy. Dryden.

Note: "Animal anatomy" is sometimes called zomy; "vegetable anatomy,"
phytotomy; "human anatomy," anthropotomy. Comparative anatomy
compares the structure of different kinds and classes of animals.

3. A treatise or book on anatomy.

4. The act of dividing anything, corporeal or intellectual, for the
purpose of examining its parts; analysis; as, the anatomy of a
discourse.

5. A skeleton; anything anatomized or dissected, or which has the
appearance of being so.
The anatomy of a little child, representing all parts thereof, is
accounted a greater rarity than the skeleton of a man in full
stature. Fuller.
They brought one Pinch, a hungry, lean-faced villain, A mere anatomy.
Shak.

ANATREPTIC
An`a*trep"tic, a. Etym: [overturning, fr.

Defn: Overthrowing; defeating; -- applied to Plato's refutative
dialogues. Enfield.

ANATRON
An"a*tron, n. Etym: [F. anatron, natron, Sp. anatron, natron, fr. Ar.
al-natr. See Natron, Niter.] [Obs.]

1. Native carbonate of soda; natron.

2. Glass gall or sandiver.

3. Saltpeter. Coxe. Johnson.

ANATROPAL; ANATROPOUS
A*nat"ro*pal, A*nat"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the ovule inverted at an early period in its
development, so that the chalaza is as the apparent apex; -- opposed
to orthotropous. Gray.

ANATTO
A*nat"to, n.

Defn: Same as Annotto.

ANBURY; AMBURY
An"bur*y, Am"bur*y, n. Etym: [AS. ampre, ompre, a crooked swelling
vein: cf. Prov. E. amper a tumor with inflammation. Cf. the first
syllable in agnail, and berry a fruit.]

1. (Far.)

Defn: A soft tumor or bloody wart on horses or oxen.

2. A disease of the roots of turnips, etc.; -- called also fingers
and toes.

ANCE
*ance. Etym: [F. -ance, fr. L. -antia and also fr. -entia.]

Defn: A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as,
assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy.

Note: All recently adopted words of this class take either -ance or -
ence, according to the Latin spelling.

-ANCE
-ance. [F. -ance, fr. L. -antia and also fr. -entia.]

Defn: A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as,
assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy.

 All recently adopted words of this class take either -ance or -ence,
according to the Latin spelling.

ANCESTOR
An"ces*tor, n. Etym: [OE. ancestre, auncestre, also ancessour; the
first forms fr. OF. ancestre, F. ancêtre, fr. the L. nom. antessor
one who goes before; the last form fr. OF. ancessor, fr. L. acc.
antecessorem, fr. antecedere to go before; ante before + cedere to
go. See Cede, and cf. Antecessor.]

1. One from whom a person is descended, whether on the father's or
mother's side, at any distance of time; a progenitor; a fore father.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: An earlier type; a progenitor; as, this fossil animal is
regarded as the ancestor of the horse.

3. (Law)

Defn: One from whom an estate has descended; -- the correlative of
heir.

ANCESTORIAL
An`ces*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Ancestral. Grote.

ANCESTORIALLY
An`ces*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: With regard to ancestors.

ANCESTRAL
An*ces"tral, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, derived from, or possessed by, an ancestor
or ancestors; as, an ancestral estate. "Ancestral trees." Hemans.

ANCESTRESS
An"ces*tress, n.

Defn: A female ancestor.

ANCESTRY
An"ces*try, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. ancesserie. See Ancestor.]

1. Condition as to ancestors; ancestral lineage; hence, birth or
honorable descent.
Title and ancestry render a good man more illustrious, but an ill one
more contemptible. Addison.

2. A series of ancestors or progenitors; lineage, or those who
compose the line of natural descent.

ANCHOR
An"chor, n. Etym: [OE. anker, AS. ancor, oncer, L. ancora, sometimes
spelt anchora, fr. Gr. angle: cf. F. ancre. See Angle, n.]

1. A iron instrument which is attached to a ship by a cable (rope or
chain), and which, being cast overboard, lays hold of the earth by a
fluke or hook and thus retains the ship in a particular station.

Note: The common anchor consists of a straight bar called a shank,
having at one end a transverse bar called a stock, above which is a
ring for the cable, and at the other end the crown, from which branch
out two or more arms with flukes, forming with the shank a suitable
angle to enter the ground.

Note: Formerly the largest and strongest anchor was the sheet anchor
(hence, Fig., best hope or last refuge), called also waist anchor.
Now the bower and the sheet anchor are usually alike. Then came the
best bower and the small bower (so called from being carried on the
bows). The stream anchor is one fourth the weight of the bower
anchor. Kedges or kedge anchors are light anchors used in warping.

2. Any instrument or contrivance serving a purpose like that of a
ship's anchor, as an arrangement of timber to hold a dam fast; a
contrivance to hold the end of a bridge cable, or other similar part;
a contrivance used by founders to hold the core of a mold in place.

3. Fig.: That which gives stability or security; that on which we
place dependence for safety.
Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul. Heb. vi. 19.

4. (Her.)

Defn: An emblem of hope.

5. (Arch.)
(a) A metal tie holding adjoining parts of a building together.
(b) Carved work, somewhat resembling an anchor or arrowhead; -- a
part of the ornaments of certain moldings. It is seen in the echinus,
or egg-and-anchor (called also egg-and-dart, egg-and-tongue)
ornament.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the anchor-shaped spicules of certain sponges; also, one
of the calcareous spinules of certain Holothurians, as in species of
Synapta. Anchor ice. See under Ice.
 -- Anchor ring. (Math.) Same as Annulus, 2 (b).
 -- Anchor stock (Naut.), the crossbar at the top of the shank at
right angles to the arms.
 -- The anchor comes home, when it drags over the bottom as the ship
drifts.
 -- Foul anchor, the anchor when it hooks, or is entangled with,
another anchor, or with a cable or wreck, or when the slack cable
entangled.
 -- The anchor is acockbill, when it is suspended perpendicularly
from the cathead, ready to be let go.
 -- The anchor is apeak, when the cable is drawn in do tight as to
bring to ship directly over it.
 -- The anchor is atrip, or aweigh, when it is lifted out of the
ground.
 -- The anchor is awash, when it is hove up to the surface of the
water.
 -- At anchor, anchored.
 -- To back an anchor, to increase the holding power by laying down a
small anchor ahead of that by which the ship rides, with the cable
fastened to the crown of the latter to prevent its coming home.
 -- To cast anchor, to drop or let go an anchor to keep a ship at
rest.
 -- To cat the anchor, to hoist the anchor to the cathead and pass
the ring-stopper.
 -- To fish the anchor, to hoist the flukes to their resting place
(called the bill-boards), and pass the shank painter.
 -- To weigh anchor, to heave or raise the anchor so as to sail away.

ANCHOR
An"chor, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anchored; p. pr. & vb. n. Anchoring.]
Etym: [Cf. F. ancrer.]

1. To place at anchor; to secure by an anchor; as, to anchor a ship.

2. To fix or fasten; to fix in a stable condition; as, to anchor the
cables of a suspension bridge.
Till that my nails were anchored in thine eyes. Shak.

ANCHOR
An"chor, v. i.

1. To cast anchor; to come to anchor; as, our ship (or the captain)
anchored in the stream.

2. To stop; to fix or rest.
My invention . . . anchors on Isabel. Shak.

ANCHOR
An"chor, n. Etym: [OE. anker, ancre, AS. ancra, fr. L. anachoreta.
See Anchoret.]

Defn: An anchoret. [Obs.] Shak.

ANCHORABLE
An"chor*a*ble, a.

Defn: Fit for anchorage.

ANCHORAGE
An"chor*age, n.

1. The act of anchoring, or the condition of lying at anchor.

2. A place suitable for anchoring or where ships anchor; a hold for
an anchor.

3. The set of anchors belonging to a ship.

4. Something which holds like an anchor; a hold; as, the anchorages
of the Brooklyn Bridge.

5. Something on which one may depend for security; ground of trust.

6. A toll for anchoring; anchorage duties. Johnson.

ANCHORAGE
An"cho*rage, n.

Defn: Abode of an anchoret.

ANCHORATE
An"chor*ate, a.

Defn: Anchor-shaped.

ANCHORED
An"chored, a.

1. Held by an anchor; at anchor; held safely; as, an anchored bark;
also, shaped like an anchor; forked; as, an anchored tongue.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Having the extremities turned back, like the flukes of an
anchor; as, an anchored cross. [Sometimes spelt ancred.]

ANCHOR ESCAPEMENT
An"chor es*cape"ment. (Horol.)
 (a) The common recoil escapement.
 (b) A variety of the lever escapement with a wide impulse pin.

ANCHORESS
An"cho*ress, n.

Defn: A female anchoret.
And there, a saintly anchoress, she dwelt. Wordsworth.

ANCHORET; ANCHORITE
An"cho*ret, An"cho*rite, n. Etym: [F. anachorète, L. anachoreta, fr.
Gr. ha to leave. Cf. Anchor a hermit.]

Defn: One who renounces the world and secludes himself, usually for
religious reasons; a hermit; a recluse. [Written by some authors
anachoret.]
Our Savior himself . . . did not choose an anchorite's or a monastic
life, but a social and affable way of conversing with mortals. Boyle.

ANCHORETIC; ANCHORETICAL
An`cho*ret"ic, An`cho*ret"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to an anchoret or hermit; after the manner of an
anchoret.

ANCHORETISH
An"cho*ret`ish, a.

Defn: Hermitlike.

ANCHORETISM
An"cho*ret*ism, n.

Defn: The practice or mode of life of an anchoret.

ANCHOR-HOLD
An"chor-hold`, n.

1. The hold or grip of an anchor, or that to which it holds.

2. Hence: Firm hold: security.

ANCHORITE
An"cho*rite, n.

Defn: Same as Anchoret.

ANCHORITESS
An"cho*ri`tess, n.

Defn: An anchoress. [R.]

ANCHORLESS
An"chor*less, a.

Defn: Without an anchor or stay. Hence: Drifting; unsettled.

ANCHOR LIGHT
Anchor light. (Naut.)

Defn: The lantern shown at night by a vessel at anchor. International
rules of the road require vessels at anchor to carry from sunset to
sunrise a single white light forward if under 150 feet in length, and
if longer, two such lights, one near the stern and one forward.

ANCHOR SHOT
Anchor shot. (Billiards)

Defn: A shot made with the object balls in an anchor space.

ANCHOR SPACE
Anchor space. (Billiards)

Defn: In the balk-line game, any of eight spaces, 7 inches by 3½,
lying along a cushion and bisected transversely by a balk line.
Object balls in an anchor space are treated as in balk.

ANCHOR WATCH
Anchor watch. (Naut.)

Defn: A detail of one or more men who keep watch on deck at night
when a vessel is at anchor.

ANCHOVY
An*cho"vy, n. Etym: [Sp. anchoa, anchova, or Pg. anchova, prob. of
Iberian origin, and lit. a dried or pickled fish, fr. Bisc. antzua
dry: cf. D. anchovis, F. anchois.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fish, about three inches in length, of the Herring
family (Engraulis encrasicholus), caught in vast numbers in the
Mediterranean, and pickled for exportation. The name is also applied
to several allied species.

ANCHOVY PEAR
An*cho"vy pear`. (Bot.)

Defn: A West Indian fruit like the mango in taste, sometimes pickled;
also, the tree (Grias cauliflora) bearing this fruit.

ANCHUSIN
An"chu*sin, n. Etym: [L. anchusa the plant alkanet, Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A resinoid coloring matter obtained from alkanet root.

ANCHYLOSE
An"chy*lose, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Anchylosed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anchylosing.] Etym: [Cf. F. ankyloser.]

Defn: To affect or be affected with anchylosis; to unite or
consolidate so as to make a stiff joint; to grow together into one.
[Spelt also ankylose.] Owen.

ANCHYLOSIS; ANKYLOSIS
An`chy*lo"sis, An`ky*lo"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ankylose.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Stiffness or fixation of a joint; formation of a stiff joint.
Dunglison.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The union of two or more separate bones to from a single bone;
the close union of bones or other structures in various animals.

ANCHYLOTIC
An`chy*lot"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anchylosis.

ANCIENT
An"cient, a. Etym: [OE. auncien, F. ancien, LL. antianus, fr. L. ante
before. See Ante-, pref.]

1. Old; that happened or existed in former times, usually at a great
distance of time; belonging to times long past; specifically applied
to the times before the fall of the Roman empire; -- opposed to
modern; as, ancient authors, literature, history; ancient days.
Witness those ancient empires of the earth. Milton.
Gildas Albanius . . . much ancienter than his namesake surnamed the
Wise. Fuller.

2. Old; that has been of long duration; of long standing; of great
age; as, an ancient forest; an ancient castle. "Our ancient
bickerings." Shak.
Remove not the ancient landmarks, which thy fathers have set. Prov.
xxii. 28.
An ancient man, strangely habited, asked for quarters. Scott.

3. Known for a long time, or from early times; -- opposed to recent
or new; as, the ancient continent.
A friend, perhaps, or an ancient acquaintance. Barrow.

4. Dignified, like an aged man; magisterial; venerable. [Archaic]
He wrought but some few hours of the day, and then would he seem very
grave and ancient. Holland.

5. Experienced; versed. [Obs.]
Though [he] was the youngest brother, yet he was the most ancient in
the business of the realm. Berners.

6. Former; sometime. [Obs.]
They mourned their ancient leader lost. Pope.
Ancient demesne (Eng. Law), a tenure by which all manors belonging to
the crown, in the reign of William the Conqueror, were held. The
numbers, names, etc., of these were all entered in a book called
Domesday Book.
 -- Ancient lights (Law), windows and other openings which have been
enjoined without molestation for more than twenty years. In England,
and in some of the United States, they acquire a prescriptive right.

Syn.
 -- Old; primitive; pristine; antique; antiquated; old-fashioned;
obsolete.
 -- Ancient, Antiquated, Obsolete, Antique, Antic, Old.
 -- Ancient is opposed to modern, and has antiquity; as, an ancient
family, ancient landmarks, ancient institutions, systems of thought,
etc. Antiquated describes that which has gone out of use or fashion;
as, antiquated furniture, antiquated laws, rules, etc. Obsolete is
commonly used, instead of antiquated, in reference to language,
customs, etc.; as, an obsolete word or phrase, an obsolete
expression. Antique is applied, in present usage, either to that
which has come down from the ancients; as, an antique cameo, bust,
etc. ; or to that which is made to imitate some ancient work of art;
as, an antique temple. In the days of Shakespeare, antique was often
used for ancient; as, "an antique song," "an antique Roman;" and
hence, from singularity often attached to what is ancient, it was
used in the sense of grotesque; as, "an oak whose antique root peeps
out; " and hence came our present word antic, denoting grotesque or
ridiculous. We usually apply both ancient and old to things subject
to gradual decay. We say, an old man, an ancient record; but never,
the old stars, an old river or mountain. In general, however, ancient
is opposed to modern, and old to new, fresh, or recent. When we speak
of a thing that existed formerly, which has ceased to exist, we
commonly use ancient; as, ancient republics, ancient heroes; and not
old republics, old heroes. But when the thing which began or existed
in former times is still in existence, we use either ancient or old;
as, ancient statues or paintings, or old statues or paintings;
ancient authors, or old authors, meaning books.

ANCIENT
An"cient, n.

1. pl.

Defn: Those who lived in former ages, as opposed to the moderns.

2. An aged man; a patriarch. Hence: A governor; a ruler; a person of
influence.
The Lord will enter into judgment with the ancients of his people,
and the princes thereof. Isa. iii. 14.

3. A senior; an elder; a predecessor. [Obs.]
Junius and Andronicus . . . in Christianity . . . were his ancients.
Hooker.

4. pl. (Eng. Law)

Defn: One of the senior members of the Inns of Court or of Chancery.
Council of Ancients (French Hist.), one of the two assemblies
composing the legislative bodies in 1795. Brande.

ANCIENT
An"cient, n. Etym: [Corrupted from ensign.]

1. An ensign or flag. [Obs.]
More dishonorable ragged than an old-faced ancient. Shak.

2. The bearer of a flag; an ensign. [Obs.]
This is Othello's ancient, as I take it. Shak.

ANCIENTLY
An"cient*ly, adv.

1. In ancient times.

2. In an ancient manner. [R.]

ANCIENTNESS
An"cient*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being ancient; antiquity; existence from old
times.

ANCIENTRY
An"cient*ry, n.

1. Antiquity; what is ancient.
They contain not word of ancientry. West.

2. Old age; also, old people. [R.]
Wronging the ancientry. Shak.

3. Ancient lineage; ancestry; dignity of birth.
A gentleman of more ancientry than estate. Fuller.

ANCIENTY
An"cient*y, n. Etym: [F. ancienneté, fr. ancien. See Ancient.]

1. Age; antiquity. [Obs.] Martin.

2. Seniority. [Obs.]

ANCILE
An*ci"le, n. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: The sacred shield of the Romans, said to have-fallen from
heaven in the reign of Numa. It was the palladium of Rome.

ANCILLARY
An"cil*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. ancillaris, fr. ancilla a female servant.]

Defn: Subservient or subordinate, like a handmaid; auxiliary.
The Convocation of York seems to have been always considered as
inferior, and even ancillary, to the greater province. Hallam.

ANCILLARY ADMINISTRATION
An"cil*la*ry ad*min`is*tra"tion. (Law)

Defn: An administration subordinate to, and in aid of, the primary or
principal administration of an estate.

ANCILLE
An*cille", n. Etym: [OF. ancelle, L. ancilla.]

Defn: A maidservant; a handmaid. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANCIPITAL; ANCIPITOUS
An*cip"i*tal, An*cip"i*tous, a. Etym: [L. anceps, ancipitis, two-
headed, double; an- for amb- on both sides + caput head.] (Bot.)

Defn: Two-edged instead of round; -- said of certain flattened stems,
as those of blue grass, and rarely also of leaves.

ANCISTROID
An*cis"troid, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Hook-shaped.

ANCLE
An"cle, n.

Defn: See Ankle.

ANCOME
An"come, n. Etym: [AS. ancuman, oncuman, to come.]

Defn: A small ulcerous swelling, coming suddenly; also, a whitlow.
[Obs.] Boucher.

ANCON
An"con, n.; L. pl. Ancones. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The olecranon, or the elbow. Ancon sheep (Zoöl.), a breed of
sheep with short crooked legs and long back. It originated in
Massachusetts in 1791; -- called also the otter breed.

ANCON; ANCONE
An"con, An"cone, n. Etym: [See Ancon, above.] (Arch.)
(a) The corner or quoin of a wall, cross-beam, or rafter. [Obs.]
Gwilt.
(b) A bracket supporting a cornice; a console.

ANCONAL; ANCONEAL
An"co*nal, An*co"ne*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ancon or elbow. "The olecranon on
anconeal process." Flower.

ANCONEUS
An*co"ne*us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. ancon elbow.] (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle of the elbow and forearm.

ANCONOID
An"co*noid, a.

Defn: Elbowlike; anconal.

ANCONY
An"co*ny, n. Etym: [Origin unknown.] (Iron Work)

Defn: A piece of malleable iron, wrought into the shape of a bar in
the middle, but unwrought at the ends.

-ANCY
-an*cy. Etym: [L. -antia.-]

Defn: A suffix expressing more strongly than -ance the idea of
quality or state; as, constancy, buoyancy, infancy.

AND
And, conj. Etym: [AS. and; akin to OS. endi, Icel. enda, OHG. anti,
enti, inti, unti, G. und, D. en, OD. ende. Cf, An if, Ante-.]

1. A particle which expresses the relation of connection or addition.
It is used to conjoin a word with a word, a clause with a clause, or
a sentence with a sentence.

Note: (a) It is sometimes used emphatically; as, "there are women and
women," that is, two very different sorts of women. (b) By a
rhetorical figure, notions, one of which is modificatory of the
other, are connected by and; as, "the tediousness and process of my
travel," that is, the tedious process, etc.; "thy fair and outward
character," that is, thy outwardly fair character, Schmidt's Shak.
Lex.

2. In order to; -- used instead of the infinitival to, especially
after try, come, go.
At least to try and teach the erring soul. Milton.

3. It is sometimes, in old songs, a mere expletive.
When that I was and a little tiny boy. Shak.

4. If; though. See An, conj. [Obs.] Chaucer.
As they will set an house on fire, and it were but to roast their
eggs. Bacon.
And so forth, and others; and the rest; and similar things; and other
things or ingredients. The abbreviation, etc. (et cetera), or &c., is
usually read and so forth.

ANDABATISM
An"da*ba*tism, n. Etym: [L. andabata a kind of Roman gladiator, who
fought hoodwinked.]

Defn: Doubt; uncertainty. [Obs.] Shelford.

ANDALUSITE
An`da*lu"site, n. (Min.)

Defn: A silicate of aluminium, occurring usually in thick rhombic
prisms, nearly square, of a grayish or pale reddish tint. It was
first discovered in Andalusia, Spain.

ANDANTE
An*dan"te, a. Etym: [It. andante, p. pr. of andare to go.] (Mus.)

Defn: Moving moderately slow, but distinct and flowing; quicker than
larghetto, and slower than allegretto.
 -- n.

Defn: A movement or piece in andante time.

ANDANTINO
An`dan*ti"no, a. Etym: [It., dim. of andante.] (Mus.)

Defn: Rather quicker than andante; between that allegretto.

Note: Some, taking andante in its original sense of "going," and
andantino as its diminutive, or "less going," define the latter as
slower than andante.

ANDARAC
An"da*rac, n. Etym: [A corruption of sandarac.]

Defn: Red orpiment. Coxe.

ANDEAN
An*de"an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the Andes.

ANDESINE
An"des*ine, n. (Min.)

Defn: A kind of triclinic feldspar found in the Andes.

ANDESITE
An"des*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: An eruptive rock allied to trachyte, consisting essentially of
a triclinic feldspar, with pyroxene, hornblende, or hypersthene.

ANDINE
An"dine, a.

Defn: Andean; as, Andine flora.

ANDIRON
And"i`ron, n. Etym: [OE. anderne, aunderne, aundyre, OF. andier, F.
landier, fr. LL. andena, andela, anderia, of unknown origin. The Eng.
was prob. confused with brand-iron, AS. brand-isen.]

Defn: A utensil for supporting wood when burning in a fireplace, one
being placed on each side; a firedog; as, a pair of andirons.

ANDRANATOMY
An`dra*nat"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. andranatomie. See Anatomy, Androtomy.]

Defn: The dissection of a human body, especially of a male;
androtomy. Coxe.

ANDROCEPHALOUS
An`dro*ceph"a*lous, a. [Gr. , , man +  head.]

Defn: Having a human head (upon an animal's body), as the Egyptian
sphinx.

ANDRODIOECIOUS; ANDRODIECIOUS
An`dro*di*o"cious, An`dro*di*e"cious, a. [Gr. , , man + E. diocious.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having perfect and staminate flowers on different plants. --
An`dro*di*o"cism, -di*e"cism (#), n.

ANDROECIUM
An*droe"ci*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (bot.)

Defn: The stamens of a flower taken collectively.

ANDROGYNE
An"dro*gyne, n.

1. An hermaphrodite.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An androgynous plant. Whewell.

ANDROGYNOUS; ANDROGYNAL
An*drog"y*nous, An*drog"y*nal, a. Etym: [L. androgynus, Gr.
androgyne.]

1. Uniting both sexes in one, or having the characteristics of both;
being in nature both male and female; hermaphroditic. Owen.
The truth is, a great mind must be androgynous. Coleridge.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing both staminiferous and pistilliferous flowers in the
same cluster.

ANDROGYNY; ANDROGYNISM
An*drog"y*ny, An*drog"y*nism, n.

Defn: Union of both sexes in one individual; hermaphroditism.

ANDROID
An"droid, a.

Defn: Resembling a man.

ANDROID; ANDROIDES
An"droid, An*droi"des, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A machine or automaton in the form of a human being.

ANDROMEDA
An*drom"e*da, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: A northern constellation, supposed to represent the mythical
Andromeda.

2. (bot.)

Defn: A genus of ericaceous flowering plants of northern climates, of
which the original species was found growing on a rock surrounded by
water.

ANDROMEDE; ANDROMED
An"dro*mede, An"dro*med, n. (Astron.)

Defn: A meteor appearing to radiate from a point in the constellation
Andromeda, -- whence the name.

 A shower of these meteors takes place every year on November 27th or
28th. The Andromedes are also called Bielids, as they are connected
with Biela's comet and move in its orbit.

ANDRON
An"dron, n. Etym: [L. andron, Gr. (Gr. & Rom. Arch.)

Defn: The apartment appropriated for the males. This was in the lower
part of the house.

ANDROPETALOUS
An`dro*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Produced by the conversion of the stamens into petals, as
double flowers, like the garden ranunculus. Brande.

ANDROPHAGI
An*droph"a*gi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: Cannibals; man-eaters; anthropophagi. [R.]

ANDROPHAGOUS
An*droph"a*gous, a.

Defn: Anthropophagous.

ANDROPHORE
An"dro*phore, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A support or column on which stamens are raised. Gray.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The part which in some Siphonophora bears the male gonophores.

ANDROPOGON
An`dro*po"gon, n. [NL.; Gr. 'anh`r, 'andro`s, man + pw`gwn the
beard.] (Bot.)

Defn: A very large and important genus of grasses, found in nearly
all parts of the world. It includes the lemon grass of Ceylon and the
beard grass, or broom sedge, of the United States. The principal
subgenus is Sorghum, including  A. sorghum and A. halepensis, from
which have been derived the Chinese sugar cane, the Johnson grass,
the Aleppo grass, the broom corn, and the durra, or Indian millet.
Several East Indian species, as A. nardus and A. schonanthus, yield
fragrant oils, used in perfumery.

ANDROSPHINX
An"dro*sphinx, n. Etym: [Gr. (Egypt. Art.)

Defn: A man sphinx; a sphinx having the head of a man and the body of
a lion.

ANDROSPORE
An"dro*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A spore of some algæ, which has male functions.

ANDROTOMOUS
An*drot"o*mous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the filaments of the stamens divided into two parts.

ANDROTOMY
An*drot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. Anatomy.]

Defn: Dissection of the human body, as distinguished from zoötomy;
anthropotomy. [R.]

ANDROUS
*an"drous. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A terminal combining form: Having a stamen or stamens;
staminate; as, monandrous, with one stamen; polyandrous, with many
stamens.

ANEAR
A*near", prep. & adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + near.]

Defn: Near. [R.] "It did not come anear." Coleridge.
The measure of misery anear us. I. Taylor.

ANEAR
A*near", v. t. & i.

Defn: To near; to approach. [Archaic]

ANEATH
A*neath", prep. & adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + neath for beneath.]

Defn: Beneath. [Scot.]

ANECDOTAGE
An"ec*do`tage, n.

Defn: Anecdotes collectively; a collection of anecdotes.
All history, therefore, being built partly, and some of it
altogether, upon anecdotage, must be a tissue of lies. De Quincey.

ANECDOTAL
An"ec*do`tal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or abounding with, anecdotes; as, anecdotal
conversation.

ANECDOTE
An"ec*dote, n. Etym: [F. anecdote, fr. Gr. Dose, n.]

1. pl.

Defn: Unpublished narratives. Burke.

2. A particular or detached incident or fact of an interesting
nature; a biographical incident or fragment; a single passage of
private life.

ANECDOTIC; ANECDOTICAL
An`ec*dot"ic, An`ec*dot"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, consisting of, or addicted to, anecdotes.
"Anecdotical traditions." Bolingbroke.

ANECDOTIST
An"ec*do"tist, n.

Defn: One who relates or collects anecdotes.

ANELACE
An"e*lace, n.

Defn: Same as Anlace.

ANELE
A*nele", v. t. Etym: [OE. anelien; an on + AS. ele oil, L. oleum. See
Oil, Anoil.]

1. To anoint. Shipley.

2. To give extreme unction to. [Obs.] R. of Brunne.

ANELECTRIC
An`e*lec"tric, a. Etym: [Gr. electric.] (Physics)

Defn: Not becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to
idioelectric.
 -- n.

Defn: A substance incapable of being electrified by friction.
Faraday.

ANELECTRODE
An`e*lec"trode, n. Etym: [Gr. electrode.] (Elec.)

Defn: The positive pole of a voltaic battery.

ANELECTROTONUS
An`e*lec*trot"o*nus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. electrotonus.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The condition of decreased irritability of a nerve in the
region of the positive electrode or anode on the passage of a current
of electricity through it. Foster.

ANEMOGRAM
A*nem"o*gram, n. Etym: [Gr. -gram.]

Defn: A record made by an anemograph.

ANEMOGRAPH
A*nem"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring and recording the direction and
force of the wind. Knight.

ANEMOGRAPHIC
A*nem`o*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Produced by an anemograph; of or pertaining to anemography.

ANEMOGRAPHY
An`e*mog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

1. A description of the winds.

2. The art of recording the direction and force of the wind, as by
means of an anemograph.

ANEMOLOGY
An`e*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of the wind.

ANEMOMETER
An`e*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the force or velocity of the wind;
a wind gauge.

ANEMOMETRIC; ANEMOMETRICAL
An`e*mo*met"ric, An`e*mo*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anemometry.

ANEMOMETROGRAPH
An`e*mo*met"ro*graph, n. Etym: [Anemometer + -graph.]

Defn: An anemograph. Knight.

ANEMOMETRY
An`e*mom"e*try, n.

Defn: The act or process of ascertaining the force or velocity of the
wind.

ANEMONE
A*nem"o*ne, n. Etym: [L. anemone, Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the Ranunculus or Crowfoot family;
windflower. Some of the species are cultivated in gardens.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sea anemone. See Actinia, and Sea anemone.

Note: This word is sometimes pronounced , especially by classical
scholars.

ANEMONIC
An`e*mon"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from,
the anemone, or from anemonin.

ANEMONIN
A*nem"o*nin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from
some species of anemone.

ANEMONY
A*nem"o*ny, n.

Defn: See Anemone. Sandys.

ANEMORPHILOUS
An`e*morph"i*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Fertilized by the agency of the wind; -- said of plants in
which the pollen is carried to the stigma by the wind; wind-
Fertilized. Lubbock.

ANEMOSCOPE
A*nem"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. anémoscope.]

Defn: An instrument which shows the direction of the wind; a wind
vane; a weathercock; -- usually applied to a contrivance consisting
of a vane above, connected in the building with a dial or index with
pointers to show the changes of the wind.

ANEMOSIS
An`e*mo"sis, n. [NL., fr. Gr. wind.]

Defn: A condition in the wood of some trees in which the rings are
separated, as some suppose, by the action of high winds upon the
trunk; wind shake.

ANENCEPHALIC; ANENCEPHALOUS
An*en`ce*phal"ic, An`en*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. Encephalon.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Without a brain; brainless. Todd & B.

ANENST; ANENT
A*nenst", A*nent", prep. Etym: [OE. anent, anentis, anence, anens,
anents, AS. onefen, onemn; an, on, on + efen even, equal; hence
meaning, on an equality with, even with, beside. See Even, a.] [Scot.
& Prov. Eng.]

1. Over against; as, he lives anent the church.

2. About; concerning; in respect; as, he said nothing anent this
particular.

ANENTEROUS
An*en"ter*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Destitute of a stomach or an intestine. Owen.

ANERGIA; ANERGY
An*er"gi*a, An"er*gy, n. [NL. anergia, fr. Gr. - not +  work.]

Defn: Lack of energy; inactivity. -- An*er"gic (#), a.

ANEROID
An"e*roid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid: cf. F. anéroïde.]

Defn: Containing no liquid; -- said of kind of barometer. Aneroid
barometer, a barometer the action of which depends on the varying
pressure of the atmosphere upon the elastic top of a metallic box
(shaped like a watch) from which the air has been exhausted. An index
shows the variation of pressure.

ANEROID
An"e*roid, n.

Defn: An aneroid barometer.

ANES
Anes, adv.

Defn: Once. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

ANESTHESIA; ANESTHETIC
An`es*the"si*a, n., An`es*thet"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Anæsthesia, Anæsthetic.

ANET
An"et, n. Etym: [F. aneth, fr. L. anethum, Gr. Anise.]

Defn: The herb dill, or dillseed.

ANETHOL
An"e*thol, n. Etym: [L. anethum (see Anise) + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance obtained from the volatile oils of anise, fennel,
etc., in the form of soft shining scales; -- called also anise
camphor. Watts.

ANETIC
A*net"ic, a. Etym: [L. aneticus, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Soothing.

ANEURISM
An"eu*rism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A soft, pulsating, hollow tumor, containing blood, arising from
the preternatural dilation or rupture of the coats of an artery.
[Written also aneurysm.]

ANEURISMAL
An`eu*ris"mal, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an aneurism; as, an aneurismal tumor;
aneurismal diathesis. [Written also aneurysmal.]

ANEW
A*new", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + new.]

Defn: Over again; another time; in a new form; afresh; as, to arm
anew; to create anew. Dryden.

ANFRACTUOSE
An*frac"tu*ose`, a. Etym: [See Anfractuous.]

Defn: Anfractuous; as, anfractuose anthers.

ANFRACTUOSITY
An*frac`tu*os"i*ty, n.; l. Anfractuosities. Etym: [Cf. F.
anfractuosité.]

1. A state of being anfractuous, or full of windings and turnings;
sinuosity.
The anfractuosities of his intellect and temper. Macaulay.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A sinuous depression or sulcus like those separating the
convolutions of the brain.

ANFRACTUOUS
An*frac"tu*ous, a. Etym: [L. anfractuosus, fr. anfractus a turning, a
winding, fr. the unused anfringere to wind, bend; an-, for amb- +
fractus, p. p. of frangere to break: cf. F. anfractueux.]

Defn: Winding; full of windings and turnings; sinuous; tortuous; as,
the anfractuous spires of a born.
 -- An*frac"tu*ous*ness, n.

ANFRACTURE
An*frac"ture, n.

Defn: A mazy winding.

ANGARIATION
An*ga"ri*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. angariatio, fr. L. angaria service to
a lord, villenage, fr. anga, Gr.

Defn: Exaction of forced service; compulsion. [Obs.] Speed.

ANGEIOLOGY; ANGEIOTOMY
An`gei*ol"o*gy, n., An`gei*ot"o*my, etc.

Defn: Same as Angiology, Angiotomy, etc.

ANGEL
An"gel, n. Etym: [AS. æangel, engel, influenced by OF. angele, angle,
F. ange. Both the AS. and the OF. words are from L. angelus, Gr.

1. A messenger. [R.]
The dear good angel of the Spring, The nightingale. B. Jonson.

2. A spiritual, celestial being, superior to man in power and
intelligence. In the Scriptures the angels appear as God's
messengers.
O, welcome, pure-eyed Faith, white-handed Hope, Thou hovering angel,
girt with golden wings. Milton.

3. One of a class of "fallen angels;" an evil spirit; as, the devil
and his angels.

4. A minister or pastor of a church, as in the Seven Asiatic
churches. [Archaic]
Unto-the angel of the church of Ephesus write. Rev. ii. 1.

5. Attendant spirit; genius; demon. Shak.

6. An appellation given to a person supposed to be of angelic
goodness or loveliness; a darling.
When pain and anguish wring the brow. Sir W. Scott.

7. (Numis.)

Defn: An ancient gold coin of England, bearing the figure of the
archangel Michael. It varied in value from 6s. 8d. to 10s. Amer. Cyc.

Note: Angel is sometimes used adjectively; as, angel grace; angel
whiteness. Angel bed, a bed without posts.
 -- Angel fish. (Zoöl.) (a) A species of shark (Squatina angelus)
from six to eight feet long, found on the coasts of Europe and North
America. It takes its name from its pectoral fins, which are very
large and extend horizontally like wings when spread. (b) One of
several species of compressed, bright colored fishes warm seas,
belonging to the family, Chætodontidæ.
 -- Angel gold, standard gold. [Obs.] Fuller.
 -- Angel shark. See Angel fish.
 -- Angel shot (Mil.), a kind of chain shot.
 -- Angel water, a perfumed liquid made at first chiefly from
angelica; afterwards containing rose, myrtle, and orange-flower
waters, with ambergris, etc. [Obs.]

ANGELAGE
An"gel*age, n.

Defn: Existence or state of angels.

ANGELET
An"gel*et, n. Etym: [OF. angelet.]

Defn: A small gold coin formerly current in England; a half angel.
Eng. Cyc.

ANGEL FISH
An"gel fish.

Defn: See under Angel.

ANGELHOOD
An"gel*hood, n.

Defn: The state of being an angel; angelic nature. Mrs. Browning.

ANGELIC; ANGELICAL
An*gel"ic, An*gel"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. angelicus, Gr. angélique.]

Defn: Belonging to, or proceeding from, angels; resembling,
characteristic of, or partaking of the nature of, an angel; heavenly;
divine. "Angelic harps." Thomson."Angelical actions." Hooker.
The union of womanly tenderness and angelic patience. Macaulay.
Angelic Hymn, a very ancient hymn of the Christian Church; -- so
called from its beginning with the song of the heavenly host recorded
in Luke ii. 14. Eadie.

ANGELIC
An*gel"ic, a. Etym: [From Angelica.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or derived from angelica; as, angelic acid; angelic ether.
Angelic acid, an acid obtained from angelica and some other plants.

ANGELICA
An*gel"i*ca, n. Etym: [NL. See Angelic.] (Bot.)

1. An aromatic umbelliferous plant (Archangelica officinalis or
Angelica archangelica) the leaf stalks of which are sometimes candied
and used in confectionery, and the roots and seeds as an aromatic
tonic.

2. The candied leaf stalks of angelica. Angelica tree, a thorny North
American shrub (Aralia spinosa), called also Hercules' club.

ANGELICALLY
An*gel"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Like an angel.

ANGELICALNESS
An*gel"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being angelic; excellence more than human.

ANGELIFY
An*gel"i*fy, v. t.

Defn: To make like an angel; to angelize. [Obs.] Farindon (1647).

ANGELIZE
An"gel*ize, v. t.

Defn: To raise to the state of an angel; to render angelic.
It ought not to be our object to angelize, nor to brutalize, but to
humanize man. W. Taylor.

ANGELLIKE
An"gel*like`, a. & adv.

Defn: Resembling an angel.

ANGELOLATRY
An`gel*ol"a*try, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Worship paid to angels.

ANGELOLOGY
An`gel*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. angelus, Gr. -logy.]

Defn: A discourse on angels, or a body of doctrines in regard to
angels.
The same mythology commanded the general consent; the same
angelology, demonology. Milman.

ANGELOPHANY
An`gel*oph"a*ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The actual appearance of an angel to man.

ANGELOT
An"ge*lot, n. Etym: [F. angelot, LL. angelotus, angellotus, dim. of
angelus. See Angel.]

1. A French gold coin of the reign of Louis XI., bearing the image of
St. Michael; also, a piece coined at Paris by the English under Henry
VI. [Obs.]

2. An instrument of music, of the lute kind, now disused. Johnson. R.
Browning.

3. A sort of small, rich cheese, made in Normandy.

ANGELUS
An"ge*lus, n. Etym: [L.] (R. C. Ch.)
(a) A form of devotion in which three Ave Marias are repeated. It is
said at morning, noon, and evening, at the sound of a bell.
(b) The Angelus bell. Shipley.

ANGER
An"ger, n. Etym: [OE. anger, angre, affliction, anger, fr. Icel. angr
affliction, sorrow; akin to Dan. anger regret, Swed. ånger regret,
AS. ange oppressed, sad, L. angor a strangling, anguish, angere to
strangle, Gr. amhas pain, and to. anguish, anxious, quinsy, and perh.
awe, ugly. The word seems to have orig. meant to choke, squeeze.

1. Trouble; vexation; also, physical pain or smart of a sore, etc.
[Obs.]
I made the experiment, setting the moxa where . . . the greatest
anger and soreness still continued. Temple.

2. A strong passion or emotion of displeasure or antagonism, excited
by a real or supposed injury or insult to one's self or others, or by
the intent to do such injury.
Anger is like A full hot horse, who being allowed his way, Self-
mettle tires him. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Resentment; wrath; rage; fury; passion; ire gall; choler;
indignation; displeasure; vexation; grudge; spleen.
 -- Anger, Indignation, Resentment, Wrath, Ire, Rage, Fury. Anger is
a feeling of keen displeasure (usually with a desire to punish) for
what we regard as wrong toward ourselves or others. It may be
excessive or misplaced, but is not necessarily criminal. Indignation
is a generous outburst of anger in view of things which are indigna,
or unworthy to be done, involving what is mean, cruel, flagitious,
etc., in character or conduct. Resentment is often a moody feeling,
leading one to brood over his supposed personal wrongs with a deep
and lasting anger. See Resentment. Wrath and ire (the last poetical)
express the feelings of one who is bitterly provoked. Rage is a
vehement ebullition of anger; and fury is an excess of rage,
amounting almost to madness. Warmth of constitution often gives rise
to anger; a high sense of honor creates indignation at crime; a man
of quick sensibilities is apt to cherish resentment; the wrath and
ire of men are often connected with a haughty and vindictive spirit;
rage and fury are distempers of the soul to be regarded only with
abhorrence.

ANGER
An"ger, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Angered; p. pr. & vb. n. Angering.] Etym:
[Cf. Icel. angra.]

1. To make painful; to cause to smart; to inflame. [Obs.]
He . . . angereth malign ulcers. Bacon.

2. To excite to anger; to enrage; to provoke.
Taxes and impositions . . . which rather angered than grieved the
people. Clarendon.

ANGERLY
An"ger*ly, adv.

Defn: Angrily. [Obs. or Poetic]
Why, how now, Hecate! you look angerly. Shak.

ANGEVINE
An"ge*vine, a. Etym: [F. Angevin.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Anjou in France.
 -- n. A native of Anjou.

ANGIENCHYMA
An`gi*en"chy*ma, n. Etym: [Gr. Parenchyma.] (Bot.)

Defn: Vascular tissue of plants, consisting of spiral vessels,
dotted, barred, and pitted ducts, and laticiferous vessels.

ANGINA
An*gi"na, n. Etym: [L., fr. angere to strangle, to choke. See Anger,
n.] (Med.)

Defn: Any inflammatory affection of the throat or faces, as the
quinsy, malignant sore throat, croup, etc., especially such as tends
to produce suffocation, choking, or shortness of breath. Angina
pectoris, a peculiarly painful disease, so named from a sense of
suffocating contraction or tightening of the lower part of the chest;
-- called also breast pang, spasm of the chest.

ANGINOUS; ANGINOSE
An"gi*nous, An"gi*nose`, a. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to angina or angina pectoris.

ANGIO-
An"gi*o-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A prefix, or combining form, in numerous compounds, usually
relating to seed or blood vessels, or to something contained in, or
covered by, a vessel.

ANGIOCARPOUS
An`gi*o*car"pous, a. Etym: [Angio- + Gr. (Bot.)
(a) Having fruit inclosed within a covering that does not form a part
of itself; as, the filbert covered by its husk, or the acorn seated
in its cupule. Brande & C.
(b) Having the seeds or spores covered, as in certain lichens. Gray.

ANGIOGRAPHY
An`gi*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Angio- + -graphy: cf. F. angiographie.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A description of blood vessels and lymphatics.

ANGIOLOGY
An`gi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Angio- + -logy.] (Anat.)

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of blood vessels and
lymphatics.

ANGIOMA
An`gi*o"ma, n. Etym: [ + -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A tumor composed chiefly of dilated blood vessels.

ANGIOMONOSPERMOUS
An`gi*o*mon`o*sper"mous, a. Etym: [Angio- + monospermous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Producing one seed only in a seed pod.

ANGIONEUROSIS
An`gi*o*neu*ro"sis, n. [NL.; angio- + neurosis.] (Med.)

Defn: Any disorder of the vasomotor system; neurosis of a blood
vessel. --An`gi*o*neu*rot"ic (#), a.

ANGIOPATHY
An`gi*op"a*thy, n.  [Angio- + Gr.  disease.] (Med.)

Defn: Disease of the vessels, esp. the blood vessels.

ANGIOSCOPE
An"gi*o*scope, n. Etym: [Angio- + -scope.]

Defn: An instrument for examining the capillary vessels of animals
and plants. Morin.

ANGIOSPERM
An"gi*o*sperm, n. Etym: [Angio- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant which has its seeds inclosed in a pericarp.

Note: The term is restricted to exogenous plants, and applied to one
of the two grand divisions of these species, the other division
including gymnosperms, or those which have naked seeds. The oak,
apple, beech, etc., are angiosperms, while the pines, spruce,
hemlock, and the allied varieties, are gymnosperms.

ANGIOSPERMATOUS
An`gi*o*sper"ma*tous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Angiospermous.

ANGIOSPERMOUS
An`gi*o*sper"mous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having seeds inclosed in a pod or other pericarp.

ANGIOSPOROUS
An`gi*os"po*rous, a. Etym: [Angio- + spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having spores contained in cells or thecæ, as in the case of
some fungi.

ANGIOSTOMOUS
An`gi*os"to*mous, a. Etym: [Angio- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: With a narrow mouth, as the shell of certain gastropods.

ANGIOTOMY
An`gi*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [Angio- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Dissection of the blood vessels and lymphatics of the body.
Dunglison.

ANGLE
An"gle, n. Etym: [F. angle, L. angulus angle, corner; akin to uncus
hook, Gr. angel hook, fish-hook, G. angel, and F. anchor.]

1. The inclosed space near the point where two lines; a corner; a
nook.
Into the utmost angle of the world. Spenser.
To search the tenderest angles of the heart. Milton.

2. (Geom.)
(a) The figure made by. two lines which meet.
(b) The difference of direction of two lines. In the lines meet, the
point of meeting is the vertex of the angle.

3. A projecting or sharp corner; an angular fragment.
Though but an angle reached him of the stone. Dryden.

4. (Astrol.)

Defn: A name given to four of the twelve astrological "houses."
[Obs.] Chaucer.

5. Etym: [AS. angel.]

Defn: A fishhook; tackle for catching fish, consisting of a line,
hook, and bait, with or without a rod.
Give me mine angle: we 'll to the river there. Shak.
A fisher next his trembling angle bears. Pope.
Acute angle, one less than a right angle, or less than 90º.
 -- Adjacent or Contiguous angles, such as have one leg common to
both angles.
 -- Alternate angles. See Alternate.
 -- Angle bar. (a) (Carp.) An upright bar at the angle where two
faces of a polygonal or bay window meet. Knight. (b) (Mach.) Same as
Angle iron.
 -- Angle bead (Arch.), a bead worked on or fixed to the angle of any
architectural work, esp. for protecting an angle of a wall.
 -- Angle brace, Angle tie (Carp.), a brace across an interior angle
of a wooden frame, forming the hypothenuse and securing the two side
pieces together. Knight.
 -- Angle iron (Mach.), a rolled bar or plate of iron having one or
more angles, used for forming the corners, or connecting or
sustaining the sides of an iron structure to which it is riveted.
 -- Angle leaf (Arch.), a detail in the form of a leaf, more or less
conventionalized, used to decorate and sometimes to strengthen an
angle.
 -- Angle meter, an instrument for measuring angles, esp. for
ascertaining the dip of strata.
 -- Angle shaft (Arch.), an enriched angle bead, often having a
capital or base, or both.
 -- Curvilineal angle, one formed by two curved lines.
 -- External angles, angles formed by the sides of any right-lined
figure, when the sides are produced or lengthened.
 -- Facial angle. See under Facial.
 -- Internal angles, those which are within any right-lined figure.
 -- Mixtilineal angle, one formed by a right line with a curved line.
 -- Oblique angle, one acute or obtuse, in opposition to a right
angle.
 -- Obtuse angle, one greater than a right angle, or more than 90º.
 -- Optic angle. See under Optic.
 -- Rectilineal or Right-lined angle, one formed by two right lines.
 -- Right angle, one formed by a right line falling on another
perpendicularly, or an angle of 90º (measured by a quarter circle).
 -- Solid angle, the figure formed by the meeting of three or more
plane angles at one point.
 -- Spherical angle, one made by the meeting of two arcs of great
circles, which mutually cut one another on the surface of a globe or
sphere.
 -- Visual angle, the angle formed by two rays of light, or two
straight lines drawn from the extreme points of an object to the
center of the eye.
 -- For Angles of commutation, draught, incidence, reflection,
refraction, position, repose, fraction, see Commutation, Draught,
Incidence, Reflection, Refraction, etc.

ANGLE
An"gle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Angled; p. pr. & vb. n. Angling.]

1. To fish with an angle (fishhook), or with hook and line.

2. To use some bait or artifice; to intrigue; to scheme; as, to angle
for praise.
The hearts of all that he did angle for. Shak.

ANGLE
An"gle, v. t.

Defn: To try to gain by some insinuating artifice; to allure. [Obs.]
"He angled the people's hearts." Sir P. Sidney.

ANGLED
An"gled, a.

Defn: Having an angle or angles; -- used in compounds; as, right-
angled, many-angled, etc.
The thrice three-angled beechnut shell. Bp. Hall.

ANGLEMETER
An"gle*me`ter, n. Etym: [Angle + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument to measure angles, esp. one used by geologists to
measure the dip of strata.

ANGLE OF ENTRY
An"gle of en"try. (Aëronautics)

Defn: The angle between the tangent to the advancing edge (of an
aërocurve) and the line of motion; -- contrasted with angle of trail,
which is the angle between the tangent to the following edge and the
line of motion.

ANGLE OF INCIDENCE
Angle of incidence. (Aëronautics)

Defn: The angle between the chord of an aërocurve and the relative
direction of the undisturbed air current.

ANGLER
An"gler, n.

1. One who angles.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish (Lophius piscatorius), of Europe and America, having a
large, broad, and depressed head, with the mouth very large. Peculiar
appendages on the head are said to be used to entice fishes within
reach. Called also fishing frog, frogfish, toadfish, goosefish,
allmouth, monkfish, etc.

ANGLES
An"gles, n. pl. Etym: [L. Angli. See Anglican.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: An ancient Low German tribe, that settled in Britain, which
came to be called Engla-land (Angleland or England). The Angles
probably came from the district of Angeln (now within the limits of
Schleswig), and the country now Lower Hanover, etc.

ANGLESITE
An"gle*site, n. Etym: [From the Isle of Anglesea.] (Min.)

Defn: A native sulphate of lead. It occurs in white or yellowish
transparent, prismatic crystals.

ANGLEWISE
An"gle*wise`, adv. Etym: [Angle + wise, OE. wise manner.]

Defn: In an angular manner; angularly.

ANGLEWORM
An"gle*worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A earthworm of the genus Lumbricus, frequently used by anglers
for bait. See Earthworm.

ANGLIAN
An"gli*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Angles.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Angles.

ANGLIC
An"glic, a.

Defn: Anglian.

ANGLICAN
An"gli*can, a. Etym: [Angli the Angles, a Germanic tribe in Lower
Germany. Cf. English.]

1. English; of or pertaining to England or the English nation;
especially, pertaining to, or connected with, the established church
of England; as, the Anglican church, doctrine, orders, ritual, etc.

2. Pertaining to, characteristic of, or held by, the high church
party of the Church of England.

ANGLICAN
An"gli*can, n.

1. A member of the Church of England.
Whether Catholics, Anglicans, or Calvinists. Burke.

2. In a restricted sense, a member of the High Church party, or of
the more advanced ritualistic section, in the Church of England.

ANGLICANISM
An"gli*can*ism, n.

1. Strong partiality to the principles and rites of the Church of
England.

2. The principles of the established church of England; also, in a
restricted sense, the doctrines held by the high-church party.

3. Attachment to England or English institutions.

ANGLICE
An"gli*ce, adv. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: In English; in the English manner; as, Livorno, Anglice
Leghorn.

ANGLICIFY
An*glic"i*fy, v. t. Etym: [NL. Anglicus English + -fly.]

Defn: To anglicize. [R.]

ANGLICISM
An"gli*cism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anglicisme.]

1. An English idiom; a phrase or form language peculiar to the
English. Dryden.

2. The quality of being English; an English characteristic, custom,
or method.

ANGLICITY
An*glic"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being English.

ANGLICIZATION
An`gli*ci*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of anglicizing, or making English in character.

ANGLICIZE
An"gli*cize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anglicized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anglicizing.]

Defn: To make English; to English; to anglify; render conformable to
the English idiom, or to English analogies.

ANGLIFY
An"gli*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anglified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anglifying.] Etym: [L. Angli + -fly.]

Defn: To convert into English; to anglicize. Franklin. Darwin.

ANGLING
An"gling, n.

Defn: The act of one who angles; the art of fishing with rod and
line. Walton.

ANGLO-
An"glo- Etym: [NL. Anglus English. See Anglican.]

Defn: A combining form meaning the same as English; or English and,
or English conjoined with; as, Anglo-Turkish treaty, Anglo-German,
Anglo-Irish. Anglo-American, . Of or pertaining to the English and
Americans, or to the descendants of Englishmen in America.
 -- n. A descendant from English ancestors born in America, or the
United States. Anglo-Danish, a. Of or pertaining to the English and
Danes, or to the Danes who settled in England. Anglo-Indian, a. Of or
pertaining to the English in India, or to the English and East Indian
peoples or languages.
 -- n. One of the Anglo-Indian race born or resident in the East
Indies. Anglo-Norman, a. Of or pertaining to the English and Normans,
or to the Normans who settled in England.
 -- n. One of the English Normans, or the Normans who conquered
England. Anglo-Saxon. See Anglo-Saxon in the Vocabulary.

ANGLO-CATHOLIC
An"glo-Cath"o*lic, a.,

Defn: Of or pertaining to a church modeled on the English
Reformation; Anglican; -- sometimes restricted to the ritualistic or
High Church section of the Church of England.

ANGLO-CATHOLIC
An"glo-Cath"o*lic, n.

Defn: A member of the Church of England who contends for its catholic
character; more specifically, a High Churchman.

ANGLO-CATHOLICISM
An"glo-Ca*thol"i*cism, n.

Defn: The belief of those in the Church of England who accept many
doctrines and practices which they maintain were those of the
primitive, or true, Catholic Church, of which they consider the
Church of England to be the lineal descendant.

ANGLOMANIA
An"glo*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Anglo'cf + mania.]

Defn: A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, English customs,
institutions, etc.

ANGLOMANIAC
An`glo*ma"ni*ac, n.

Defn: One affected with Anglomania.

ANGLOPHOBIA
An`glo*pho"bi*a, n. Etym: [Anglo- + Gr.

Defn: Intense dread of, or aversion to, England or the English.
 -- An"glo*phobe, n.

ANGLO-SAXON
An"glo-Sax"on, n. Etym: [L. Angli-Saxones English Saxons.]

1. A Saxon of Britain, that is, an English Saxon, or one the Saxons
who settled in England, as distinguished from a continental (or
"Old") Saxon.

2. pl.

Defn: The Teutonic people (Angles, Saxons, Jutes) of England, or the
English people, collectively, before the Norman Conquest.
It is quite correct to call Æthelstan "King of the Anglo-Saxons," but
to call this or that subject of Æthelstan "an Anglo-Saxon" is simply
nonsense. E. A. Freeman.

3. The language of the English people before the Conquest (sometimes
called Old English). See Saxon.

4. One of the race or people who claim descent from the Saxons,
Angles, or other Teutonic tribes who settled in England; a person of
English descent in its broadest sense.

ANGLO-SAXON
An"glo-Sax"on, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Anglo-Saxons or their language.

ANGLO-SAXONDOM
An"glo-Sax"on*dom, n.

Defn: The Anglo-Saxon domain (i. e., Great Britain and the United
States, etc.); the Anglo-Saxon race.

ANGLO-SAXONISM
An"glo-Sax"on*ism, n.

1. A characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon race; especially, a word or an
idiom of the Anglo-Saxon tongue. M. Arnold.

2. The quality or sentiment of being Anglo-Saxon, or English in its
ethnological sense.

ANGOLA
An*go"la, n. Etym: [A corruption of Angora.]

Defn: A fabric made from the wool of the Angora goat.

ANGOLA PEA
An*go"la pea`. (Bot.)

Defn: A tropical plant (Cajanus indicus) and its edible seed, a kind
of pulse; -- so called from Angola in Western Africa. Called also
pigeon pea and Congo pea.

ANGOR
An"gor, n. Etym: [L. See Anger.] (Med.)

Defn: Great anxiety accompanied by painful constriction at the upper
part of the belly, often with palpitation and oppression.

ANGORA
An*go"ra, n.

Defn: A city of Asia Minor (or Anatolia) which has given its name to
a goat, a cat, etc. Angora cat (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic cat
with very long and silky hair, generally of the brownish white color.
Called also Angola cat. See Cat.
 -- Angora goat (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic goat, reared for
its long silky hair, which is highly prized for manufacture.

ANGOSTURA BARK
An`gos*tu"ra bark". Etym: [From Angostura, in Venezuela.]

Defn: An aromatic bark used as a tonic, obtained from a South
American of the rue family (Galipea cusparia, or officinalis). U. S.
Disp.

ANGOUMOIS MOTH
An`gou`mois" moth". Etym: [So named from Angoumois in France.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A small moth (Gelechia cerealella) which is very destructive to
wheat and other grain. The larva eats out the inferior of the grain,
leaving only the shell.

ANGRILY
An"gri*ly, adv.

Defn: In an angry manner; under the influence of anger.

ANGRINESS
An"gri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being angry, or of being inclined to anger.
Such an angriness of humor that we take fire at everything. Whole
Duty of Man.

ANGRY
An"gry, a. [Compar. Angrier; superl. Angriest.] Etym: [See Anger.]

1. Troublesome; vexatious; rigorous. [Obs.]
God had provided a severe and angry education to chastise the
forwardness of a young spirit. Jer. Taylor.

2. Inflamed and painful, as a sore.

3. Touched with anger; under the emotion of anger; feeling
resentment; enraged; -- followed generally by with before a person,
and at before a thing.
Be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves. Gen. xlv. 5.
Wherefore should God be angry at thy voice Eccles. v. 6.

4. Showing anger; proceeding from anger; acting as if moved by anger;
wearing the marks of anger; as, angry words or tones; an angry sky;
angry waves. "An angry countenance." Prov. xxv. 23.

5. Red. [R.]
Sweet rose, whose hue, angry and brave. Herbert.

6. Sharp; keen; stimulated. [R.]
I never ate with angrier appetite. Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- Passionate; resentful; irritated; irascible; indignant; provoked;
enraged; incensed; exasperated; irate; hot; raging; furious;
wrathful; wroth; choleric; inflamed; infuriated.

ANGUIFORM
An"gui*form, a. Etym: [L. angius snake + -form.]

Defn: Snake-shaped.

ANGUILLIFORM
An*guil"li*form, a. Etym: [L. anguilla eel (dim. of anguis snake) + -
form.]

Defn: Eel-shaped.

Note: The "Anguillæformes" of Cuvier are fishes related to thee eel.

ANGUINE
An"guine, a. Etym: [L. anguinus, fr. anguis snake.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a snake or serpent. "The
anguine or snakelike reptiles." Owen.

ANGUINEAL
An*guin"e*al, a.

Defn: Anguineous.

ANGUINEOUS
An*guin"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. anguineus.]

Defn: Snakelike.

ANGUISH
An"guish, n. Etym: [OE. anguishe, anguise, angoise, F. angoisse, fr.
L. angustia narrowness, difficulty, distress, fr. angustus narrow,
difficult, fr. angere to press together. See Anger.]

Defn: Extreme pain, either of body or mind; excruciating distress.
But they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for
cruel bondage. Ex. vi. 9.
Anguish as of her that bringeth forth her first child. Jer. iv. 31.

Note: Rarely used in the plural: -
Ye miserable people, you must go to God in anguishes, and make your
prayer to him. Latimer.

Syn.
 -- Agony; pang; torture; torment. See Agony.

ANGUISH
An"guish, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. angoisser, fr. L. angustiare.]

Defn: To distress with extreme pain or grief. [R.] Temple.

ANGULAR
An"gu*lar, a. Etym: [L. angularis, fr. angulus angle, corner. See
Angle.]

1. Relating to an angle or to angles; having an angle or angles;
forming an angle or corner; sharp-cornered; pointed; as, an angular
figure.

2. Measured by an angle; as, angular distance.

3. Fig.: Lean; lank; raw-boned; ungraceful; sharp and stiff in
character; as, remarkably angular in his habits and appearance; an
angular female. Angular aperture, Angular distance. See Aperture,
Distance.
 -- Angular motion, the motion of a body about a fixed point or fixed
axis, as of a planet or pendulum. It is equal to the angle passed
over at the point or axis by a line drawn to the body.
 -- Angular point, the point at which the sides of the angle meet;
the vertex.
 -- Angular velocity, the ratio of anuglar motion to the time
employed in describing.

ANGULAR
An"gu*lar, n. (Anat.)

Defn: A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles,
and fishes.

ANGULARITY
An`gu*lar"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being angular; angularness.

ANGULARLY
An"gu*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In an angular manner; with of at angles or corners. B. Jonson.

ANGULARNESS
An"gu*lar*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being angular.

ANGULATE
An"gu*late, v. t.

Defn: To make angular.

ANGULATE; ANGULATED
An"gu*late, An"gu*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. angulatus, p. p. of angulare
to make angular.]

Defn: Having angles or corners; angled; as, angulate leaves.

ANGULATION
An`gu*la"tion, n.

Defn: A making angular; angular formation. Huxley.

ANGULO-DENTATE
An"gu*lo-den"tate(#), a.. Etym: [L. angulus angle + dens, dentis,
tooth.] (Bot.)

Defn: Angularly toothed, as certain leaves.

ANGULOMETER
An"gu*lom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. angulus angle + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring external angles.

ANGULOSE
An"gu*lose`, a.

Defn: Angulous. [R.]

ANGULOSITY
An`gu*los"i*ty, n.

Defn: A state of being angulous or angular. [Obs.]

ANGULOUS
An"gu*lous, a. Etym: [L. angulosus: cf. F. anguleux.]

Defn: Angular; having corners; hooked. [R.]
Held together by hooks and angulous involutions. Glanvill.

ANGUST
An*gust", a. Etym: [L. angustus. See Anguish.]

Defn: Narrow; strait. [Obs.]

ANGUSTATE
An*gus"tate, a. Etym: [L. angustatus, p. p. of angustare to make
narrow.]

Defn: Narrowed.

ANGUSTATION
An`gus*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act or making narrow; a straitening or contacting. Wiseman.

ANGUSTICLAVE
An*gus"ti*clave (an*gus"ti*klav), n. [L. angustus narrow + clavus a
nail, a stripe.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A narrow stripe of purple worn by the equites on each side of
the tunic as a sign of rank.

ANGUSTIFOLIATE; ANGUSTIFOLIOUS
An*gus`ti*fo"li*ate, An*gus`ti*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. angustus
narrow (see Anguish) + folium leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having narrow leaves. Wright.

ANGUSTURA BARK
An`gus*tu"ra bark`.

Defn: See Angostura bark.

ANGWANTIBO
An`gwan*ti"bo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small lemuroid mammal (Arctocebus Calabarensis) of Africa. It
has only a rudimentary tail.

ANHANG
An*hang", v. t. Etym: [AS. onhangian.]

Defn: To hang. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANHARMONIC
An`har*mon"ic, a. Etym: [F. anharmonique, fr. Gr. (Math.)

Defn: Not harmonic. The anharmonic function or ratio of four points
abcd on a straight line is the quantity (ac/ad):(bc/bd), where the
segments are to regarded as plus or minus, according to the order of
the letters.

ANHELATION
An`he*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. anhelatio, fr. anhelare to pant; an
(perh. akin to E. on) + halare to breathe: cf. F. anhélation.]

Defn: Short and rapid breathing; a panting; asthma. Glanvill.

ANHELE
An*hele", v. i. Etym: [Cf. OF. aneler, anheler. See Anhelation.]

Defn: To pant; to be breathlessly anxious or eager (for). [Obs.]
They anhele . . . for the fruit of our convocation. Latimer.

ANHELOSE
An"he*lose, a.

Defn: Anhelous; panting. [R.]

ANHELOUS
An*he"lous, a. Etym: [L. anhelus.]

Defn: Short of breath; panting.

ANHIMA
An"hi*ma, n. Etym: [Brazilian name.]

Defn: A South American aquatic bird; the horned screamer or kamichi
(Palamedea cornuta). See Kamichi.

ANHINGA
An*hin"ga, n. Etym: [Pg.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An aquatic bird of the southern United States (Platus anhinga);
the darter, or snakebird.

ANHISTOUS
An*his"tous, a. Etym: [Gr. anhiste.] (Biol.)

Defn: Without definite structure; as, an anhistous membrane.

ANHUNGERED
An*hun"gered, a.

Defn: Ahungered; longing. [Archaic]

ANHYDRIDE
An*hy"dride, n. Etym: [See Anhydrous.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oxide of a nonmetallic body or an organic radical, capable
of forming an acid by uniting with the elements of water; -- so
called because it may be formed from an acid by the abstraction of
water.

ANHYDRITE
An*hy"drite, n. Etym: [See Anhydrous.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a white a slightly bluish color, usually massive.
It is anhydrous sulphate of lime, and differs from gypsum in not
containing water (whence the name).

ANHYDROUS
An*hy"drous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Destitute of water; as, anhydrous salts or acids.

ANI; ANO
A"ni or A"no, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A black bird of tropical America, the West Indies and Florida
(Crotophaga ani), allied to the cuckoos, and remarkable for
communistic nesting.

ANICUT; ANNICUT
An"i*cut, An"ni*cut, n. Etym: [Tamil anai kattu dam building.]

Defn: A dam or mole made in the course of a stream for the purpose of
regulating the flow of a system of irrigation. [India] Brande & C.

ANIDIOMATIC; ANIDIOMATICAL; UNIDIOMATIC; UNIDIOMATICAL
An*id`io*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. idiomatical.]

Defn: Not idiomatic. [R.] Landor.

ANIENT; ANIENTISE
An"i*ent, An`i*en"tise, v. t. Etym: [OF. anientir, F. anéantir.]

Defn: To frustrate; to bring to naught; to annihilate. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

ANIGH
A*nigh", prep. & adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + nigh.]

Defn: Nigh. [Archaic]

ANIGHT; ANIGHTS
A*night", A*nights", adv. Etym: [OE. on niht.]

Defn: In the night time; at night. [Archaic]
Does he hawk anights still Marston.

ANIL
An"il, n. Etym: [F. anil, Sp. anil, or Pg. anil; all fr. Ar. an-nil,
for al-nil the indigo plant, fr. Skr. nila dark blue, nili indigo,
indigo plant. Cf. Lilac.] (Bot.)

Defn: A West Indian plant (Indigofera anil), one of the original
sources of indigo; also, the indigo dye.

ANILE
An"ile, a. Etym: [L. anilis, fr. anus an old woman.]

Defn: Old-womanish; imbecile. "Anile ideas." Walpole.

ANILENESS
An"ile*ness, n.

Defn: Anility. [R.]

ANILIC
An*il"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, anil; indigotic; -- applied to
an acid formed by the action of nitric acid on indigo. [R.]

ANILIDE
An"i*lide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of compounds which may be regarded as amides in
which more or less of the hydrogen has been replaced by phenyl.

ANILINE
An"i*line, n. Etym: [See Anil.] (Chem.)

Defn: An organic base belonging to the phenylamines. It may be
regarded as ammonia in which one hydrogen atom has been replaced by
the radical phenyl. It is a colorless, oily liquid, originally
obtained from indigo by distillation, but now largely manufactured
from coal tar or nitrobenzene as a base from which many brilliant
dyes are made.

ANILINE
An"i*line, a.

Defn: Made from, or of the nature of, aniline.

ANILINISM
An"i*lin*ism, n.  [Aniline + -ism.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease due to inhaling the poisonous fumes present in the
manufacture of aniline.

ANILITY
A*nil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. anilitas. See Anile.]

Defn: The state of being and old woman; old-womanishness; dotage.
"Marks of anility." Sterne.

ANIMADVERSAL
An`i*mad*ver"sal, n.

Defn: The faculty of perceiving; a percipient. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

ANIMADVERSION
An`i*mad*ver"sion, n. Etym: [L. animadversio, fr. animadvertere: cf.
F. animadversion. See Animadvert.]

1. The act or power of perceiving or taking notice; direct or simple
perception. [Obs.]
The soul is the sole percipient which hath animadversion and sense,
properly so called. Glanvill.

2. Monition; warning. [Obs.] Clarendon.

3. Remarks by way of criticism and usually of censure; adverse
criticism; reproof; blame.
He dismissed their commissioners with severe and sharp
animadversions. Clarendon.

4. Judicial cognizance of an offense; chastisement; punishment.
[Archaic] "Divine animadversions." Wesley.

Syn.
 -- Stricture; criticism; censure; reproof; blame; comment.

ANIMADVERSIVE
An`i*mad*ver"sive, a.

Defn: Having the power of perceiving; percipient. [Archaic] Glanvill.
I do not mean there is a certain number of ideas glaring and shining
to the animadversive faculty. Coleridge.

ANIMADVERT
An`i*mad*vert", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Animadverted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Animadverting.] Etym: [L. animadvertere; animus mind + advertere to
turn to; ad to + vertere to turn.]

1. To take notice; to observe; -- commonly followed by that. Dr. H.
More.

2. To consider or remark by way of criticism or censure; to express
censure; -- with on or upon.
I should not animadvert on him . . . if he had not used extreme
severity in his judgment of the incomparable Shakespeare. Dryden.

3. To take cognizance judicially; to inflict punishment. [Archaic]
Grew.

Syn.
 -- To remark; comment; criticise; censure.

ANIMADVERTER
An`i*mad*vert"er, n.

Defn: One who animadverts; a censurer; also [Obs.], a chastiser.

ANIMAL
An"i*mal, n. Etym: [L., fr. anima breath, soul: cf. F. animal. See
Animate.]

1. An organized living being endowed with sensation and the power of
voluntary motion, and also characterized by taking its food into an
internal cavity or stomach for digestion; by giving carbonic acid to
the air and taking oxygen in the process of respiration; and by
increasing in motive power or active aggressive force with progress
to maturity.

2. One of the lower animals; a brute or beast, as distinguished from
man; as, men and animals.

ANIMAL
An"i*mal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. animal.]

1. Of or relating to animals; as, animal functions.

2. Pertaining to the merely sentient part of a creature, as
distinguished from the intellectual, rational, or spiritual part; as,
the animal passions or appetites.

3. Consisting of the flesh of animals; as, animal food. Animal
magnetism. See Magnetism and Mesmerism.
 -- Animal electricity, the electricity developed in some animals, as
the electric eel, torpedo, etc.
 -- Animal flower (Zoöl.), a name given to certain marine animals
resembling a flower, as any species of actinia or sea anemone, and
other Anthozoa, hydroids, starfishes, etc.
 -- Animal heat (Physiol.), the heat generated in the body of a
living animal, by means of which the animal is kept at nearly a
uniform temperature.
 -- Animal spirits. See under Spirit.
 -- Animal kingdom, the whole class of beings endowed with animal
life. It embraces several subkingdoms, and under these there are
Classes, Orders, Families, Genera, Species, and sometimes
intermediate groupings, all in regular subordination, but variously
arranged by different writers.

Note: The following are the grand divisions, or subkingdoms, and the
principal classes under them, generally recognized at the present
time: -Vertebrata, including Mammalia or Mammals, Aves or Birds,
Reptilia, Amphibia, Pisces or Fishes, Marsipobranchiata (Craniota);
and Leptocardia (Acrania). Tunicata, including the Thaliacea, and
Ascidioidea or Ascidians. Articulata or Annulosa, including Insecta,
Myriapoda, Malacapoda, Arachnida, Pycnogonida, Merostomata, Crustacea
(Arthropoda); and Annelida, Gehyrea (Anarthropoda). Helminthes or
Vermes, including Rotifera, Chætognatha, Nematoidea, Acanthocephala,
Nemertina, Turbellaria, Trematoda, Cestoidea, Mesozea. Molluscoidea,
including Brachiopoda and Bryozoa. Mollusca, including Cephalopoda,
Gastropoda, Pteropoda, Scaphopoda, Lamellibranchiata or Acephala.
Echinodermata, including Holothurioidea, Echinoidea, Asterioidea,
Ophiuroidea, and Crinoidea. Coelenterata, including Anthozoa or
Polyps, Ctenophora, and Hydrozoa or Acalephs. Spongiozoa or Porifera,
including the sponges. Protozoa, including Infusoria and Rhizopoda.
For definitions, see these names in the Vocabulary.

ANIMALCULAR; ANIMALCULINE
An`i*mal"cu*lar, An`i*mal"cu*line, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, animalcules. "Animalcular
life." Tyndall.

ANIMALCULE
An`i*mal"cule, n. Etym: [As if fr. a L. animalculum, dim. of animal.]

1. A small animal, as a fly, spider, etc. [Obs.] Ray.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal, invisible, or nearly so, to the naked eye. See
Infusoria.

Note: Many of the so-called animalcules have been shown to be plants,
having locomotive powers something like those of animals. Among these
are Volvox, the Desmidiacæ, and the siliceous Diatomaceæ. Spermatic
animalcules. See Spermatozoa.

ANIMALCULISM
An`i*mal"cu*lism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animalculisme.] (Biol.)

Defn: The theory which seeks to explain certain physiological and
pathological by means of animalcules.

ANIMALCULIST
An`i*mal"cu*list, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animalculiste.]

1. One versed in the knowledge of animalcules. Keith.

2. A believer in the theory of animalculism.

ANIMALCULUM
An`i*mal"cu*lum, n.; pl. Animalcula. Etym: [NL. See Animalcule.]

Defn: An animalcule.

Note: Animalculæ, as if from a Latin singular animalcula, is a
barbarism.

ANIMALISH
An"i*mal*ish, a.

Defn: Like an animal.

ANIMALISM
An"i*mal*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animalisme.]

Defn: The state, activity, or enjoyment of animals; mere animal life
without intellectual or moral qualities; sensuality.

ANIMALITY
An`i*mal"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animalité.]

Defn: Animal existence or nature. Locke.

ANIMALIZATION
An`i*mal*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animalisation.]

1. The act of animalizing; the giving of animal life, or endowing
with animal properties.

2. Conversion into animal matter by the process of assimilation.
Owen.

ANIMALIZE
An"i*mal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Animalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Animalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. animaliser.]

1. To endow with the properties of an animal; to represent in animal
form. Warburton.

2. To convert into animal matter by the processes of assimilation.

3. To render animal or sentient; to reduce to the state of a lower
animal; to sensualize.
The unconscious irony of the Epicurean poet on the animalizing
tendency of his own philosophy. Coleridge.

ANIMALLY
An"i*mal*ly, adv.

Defn: Physically. G. Eliot.

ANIMALNESS
An"i*mal*ness, n.

Defn: Animality. [R.]

ANIMASTIC
An`i*mas"tic, a. Etym: [L. anima breath, life.]

Defn: Pertaining to mind or spirit; spiritual.

ANIMASTIC
An`i*mas"tic, n.

Defn: Psychology. [Obs.]

ANIMATE
An"i*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Animated; p. pr. & vb. n. Animating.]
Etym: [L. animatus, p. p. of animare, fr. anima breath, soul; akin to
animus soul, mind, Gr. an to breathe, live, Goth. us-anan to expire
(us- out), Icel. önd breath, anda to breathe, OHG. ando anger. Cf.
Animal.]

1. To give natural life to; to make alive; to quicken; as, the soul
animates the body.

2. To give powers to, or to heighten the powers or effect of; as, to
animate a lyre. Dryden.

3. To give spirit or vigor to; to stimulate or incite; to inspirit;
to rouse; to enliven.
The more to animate the people, he stood on high . . . and cried unto
them with a loud voice. Knolles.

Syn.
 -- To enliven; inspirit; stimulate; exhilarate; inspire; instigate;
rouse; urge; cheer; prompt; incite; quicken; gladden.

ANIMATE
An"i*mate, a. Etym: [L. animatus, p. p.]

Defn: Endowed with life; alive; living; animated; lively.
The admirable structure of animate bodies. Bentley.

ANIMATED
An"i*ma`ted, a.

Defn: Endowed with life; full of life or spirit; indicating
animation; lively; vigorous. "Animated sounds." Pope. "Animated
bust." Gray. "Animated descriptions." Lewis.

ANIMATEDLY
An"i*ma`ted*ly, adv.

Defn: With animation.

ANIMATER
An"i*ma`ter, n.

Defn: One who animates. De Quincey.

ANIMATING
An"i*ma"ting, a.

Defn: Causing animation; life-giving; inspiriting; rousing.
"Animating cries." Pope.
 -- An"i*ma`ting*ly, adv.

ANIMATION
An`i*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. animatio, fr. animare.]

1. The act of animating, or giving life or spirit; the state of being
animate or alive.
The animation of the same soul quickening the whole frame. Bp. Hall.
Perhaps an inanimate thing supplies me, while I am speaking, with
whatever I posses of animation. Landor.

2. The state of being lively, brisk, or full of spirit and vigor;
vivacity; spiritedness; as, he recited the story with great
animation. Suspended animation, temporary suspension of the vital
functions, as in persons nearly drowned.

Syn.
 -- Liveliness; vivacity; spirit; buoyancy; airiness; sprightliness;
promptitude; enthusiasm; ardor; earnestness; energy. See Liveliness.

ANIMATIVE
An"i*ma*tive, a

Defn: Having the power of giving life or spirit. Johnson.

ANIMATOR
An"i*ma`tor, n. Etym: [L. animare.]

Defn: One who, or that which, animates; an animater. Sir T. Browne.

ANIME
A"ni*mé`, a. Etym: [F., animated.] (Her.)

Defn: Of a different tincture from the animal itself; -- said of the
eyes of a rapacious animal. Brande & C.

ANIME
A"ni*mé, n. Etym: [F. animé animated (from the insects that are
entrapped in it); or native name.]

Defn: A resin exuding from a tropical American tree (Hymenæa
courbaril), and much used by varnish makers. Ure.

ANIMISM
An"i*mism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animisme, fr. L. anima soul. See
Animate.]

1. The doctrine, taught by Stahl, that the soul is the proper
principle of life and development in the body.

2. The belief that inanimate objects and the phenomena of nature are
endowed with personal life or a living soul; also, in an extended
sense, the belief in the existence of soul or spirit apart from
matter. Tylor.

ANIMIST
An"i*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animiste.]

Defn: One who maintains the doctrine of animism.

ANIMISTIC
An`i*mis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to animism. Huxley. Tylor.

ANIMOSE; ANIMOUS
An`i*mose", An"i*mous, a. Etym: [L. animosus, fr. animus soul,
spirit, courage.]

Defn: Full of spirit; hot; vehement; resolute. [Obs.] Ash.

ANIMOSENESS
An`i*mose"ness, n.

Defn: Vehemence of temper. [Obs.]

ANIMOSITY
An`i*mos"i*ty, n.; pl. Animosities. Etym: [F. animosité, fr. L.
animositas. See Animose, Animate, v. t.]

1. Mere spiritedness or courage. [Obs.] Skelton.
Such as give some proof of animosity, audacity, and execution, those
she [the crocodile] loveth. Holland.

2. Violent hatred leading to active opposition; active enmity;
energetic dislike. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Enmity; hatred; opposition.
 -- Animosity, Enmity. Enmity be dormant or concealed; animosity is
active enmity, inflamed by collision and mutual injury between
opposing parties. The animosities which were continually springing up
among the clans in Scotland kept that kingdom in a state of turmoil
and bloodshed for successive ages. The animosities which have been
engendered among Christian sects have always been the reproach of the
church.
Such [writings] as naturally conduce to inflame hatreds and make
enmities irreconcilable. Spectator.
[These] factions . . . never suspended their animosities till they
ruined that unhappy government. Hume.

ANIMUS
An"i*mus, n.; pl. Animi. Etym: [L., mind.]

Defn: Animating spirit; intention; temper. nimus furandi Etym: [L.]
(Law), intention of stealing.

ANION
An"i*on, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: An electro-negative element, or the element which, in electro-
chemical decompositions, is evolved at the anode; -- opposed to
cation. Faraday.

ANISE
An"ise, n. Etym: [OE. anys, F. anis, L. anisum, anethum, fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella anisum) growing naturally in
Egypt, and cultivated in Spain, Malta, etc., for its carminative and
aromatic seeds.

2. The fruit or seeds of this plant.

ANISEED
An"i*seed, n.

Defn: The seed of the anise; also, a cordial prepared from it. "Oil
of aniseed." Brande & C.

ANISETTE
An`i*sette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A French cordial or liqueur flavored with anise seeds. De
Colange.

ANISIC
A*nis"ic, a.

Defn: Of or derived from anise; as, anisic acid; anisic alcohol.

ANISOCORIA
An`i*so*co"ri*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  +  pupil.] (Med.)

Defn: Inequality of the pupils of the eye.

ANISODACTYLA; ANISODACTYLS
An`i*so*dac"ty*la, An`i*so*dac"tyls, n. pl. Etym: [NL. anisodactyla,
fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) A group of herbivorous mammals characterized by having the hoofs
in a single series around the foot, as the elephant, rhinoceros, etc.
(b) A group of perching birds which are anisodactylous.

ANISODACTYLOUS
An`i*so*dac"ty*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Characterized by unequal toes, three turned forward and one
backward, as in most passerine birds.

ANISOL
An"i*sol, n.  [Anisic + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: Methyl phenyl ether, C6H5OCH3, got by distilling anisic acid or
by the action of methide on potassium phenolate.

ANISOMERIC
An`i*so*mer"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Not isomeric; not made of the same components in the same
proportions.

ANISOMEROUS
An`i*som"er*ous, a. Etym: [See Anisomeric.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the number of floral organs unequal, as four petals and
six stamens.

ANISOMETRIC
An`i*so*met"ric, a. Etym: [Gr. isometric.]

Defn: Not isometric; having unsymmetrical parts; -- said of crystals
with three unequal axes. Dana.

ANISOMETROPIA
An`i*so*me*tro"pi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  +  measure + , , eye.]

Defn: Unequal refractive power in the two eyes.

ANISOPETALOUS
An`i*so*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having unequal petals.

ANISOPHYLLOUS
An`i*soph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having unequal leaves.

ANISOPLEURA
An`i*so*pleu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A primary division of gastropods, including those having spiral
shells. The two sides of the body are unequally developed.

ANISOPODA
An`i*sop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Crustacea, which, in some its characteristics, is
intermediate between Amphipoda and Isopoda.

ANISOSPORE
An"i*so*spore`, n. [Gr.  priv. + isospore.] (Biol.)

Defn: A sexual spore in which the sexes differ in size; -- opposed to
isospore.

ANISOSTEMONOUS
An`i*so*stem"o*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having unequal stamens; having stamens different in number from
the petals.

ANISOSTHENIC
An`i*so*sthen"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of unequal strength.

ANISOTROPE; ANISOTROPIC
An"i*so*trope`, An`i*so*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Not isotropic; having different properties in different
directions; thus, crystals of the isometric system are optically
isotropic, but all other crystals are anisotropic.

ANISOTROPOUS
An`i*sot"ro*pous, a.

Defn: Anisotropic.

ANISYL
An"i*syl, n. (Org. Chem.)
 (a) The univalent radical, CH3OC6H4, of which anisol is the hydride.
 (b) The univalent radical CH3OC6H4CH2; as, anisyl alcohol.
 (c) The univalent radical CH3OC6H4CO, of anisic acid.

ANITO
A*ni"to, n.; pl. -tos (#). [Sp.]

Defn: In Guam and the Philippines, an idol, fetich, or spirit.

ANKER
An"ker, n. Etym: [D. anker: cf. LL. anceria, ancheria.]

Defn: A liquid measure in various countries of Europe. The Dutch
anker, formerly also used in England, contained about 10 of the old
wine gallons, or 8

ANKERITE
An"ker*ite, n. Etym: [So called from Prof. Anker of Austria: cf. F.
ankérite, G. ankerit.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral closely related to dolomite, but containing iron.

ANKH
Ankh, n. [Egypt.] (Egypt. Archæol.)

Defn: A tau cross with a loop at the top, used as an attribute or
sacred emblem, symbolizing generation or enduring life. Called also
crux ansata.

ANKLE
An"kle, n. Etym: [OE. ancle, anclow, AS. ancleow; akin to Icel.
ökkla, ökli, Dan. and Sw. ankel, D. enklaauw, enkel, G. enkel, and
perh. OHG. encha, ancha thigh, shin: cf. Skr. anga limb, anguri
finger. Cf. Haunch.]

Defn: The joint which connects the foot with the leg; the tarsus.
Ankle bone, the bone of the ankle; the astragalus.

ANKLED
An"kled, a.

Defn: Having ankles; -- used in composition; as, well-ankled. Beau. &
Fl.

ANKLET
An"klet, n.

Defn: An ornament or a fetter for the ankle; an ankle ring.

ANKUS
An"kus, n. [Hind., fr. Skr. ankuça.]

Defn: An elephant goad with a sharp spike and hook, resembling a
short-handled boat hook. [India] Kipling.

ANKYLOSE
An"ky*lose, v. t. & i.

Defn: Same as Anchylose.

ANKYLOSIS
An`ky*lo"sis, n.

Defn: Same as Anchylosis.

ANKYLOSTOMIASIS
An`ky*los*to*mi"a*sis, n. [NL., fr. Ankylostoma, var. of
Agchylostoma, generic name of one genus of the parasitic nematodes.]
(Med.)

Defn: A disease due to the presence of the parasites Agchylostoma
duodenale, Uncinaria (subgenus Necator) americana, or allied
nematodes, in the small intestine. When present in large numbers they
produce a severe anæmia by sucking the blood from the intestinal
walls.  Called also miner's anæmia, tunnel disease, brickmaker's
anæmia, Egyptian chlorosis.

ANLACE
An"lace, n. Etym: [Origin unknown.]

Defn: A broad dagger formerly worn at the girdle. [Written also
anelace.]

ANLAUT
An"laut`, n. [G.; an on + laut sound.] (Phon.)

Defn: An initial sound, as of a word or syllable.

-- Im anlaut, initially; when initial; --used of sounds.

ANN; ANNAT
Ann, An"nat, n. Etym: [LL. annata income of a year, also, of half a
year, fr. L. annus year: cf. F. annate annats.] (Scots Law)

Defn: A half years's stipend, over and above what is owing for the
incumbency, due to a minister's heirs after his decease.

ANNA
An"na, n. Etym: [Hindi ana.]

Defn: An East Indian money of account, the sixteenth of a rupee, or
about 2

ANNAL
An"nal, n.

Defn: See Annals.

ANNALIST
An"nal*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. annaliste.]

Defn: A writer of annals.
The monks . . . were the only annalists in those ages. Hume.

ANNALISTIC
An`nal*is"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or after the manner of, an annalist; as, the dry
annalistic style."A stiff annalistic method." Sir G. C. Lewis.

ANNALIZE
An"nal*ize, v. t.

Defn: To record in annals. Sheldon.

ANNALS
An"nals, n. pl. Etym: [L. annalis (sc. liber), and more frequently in
the pl. annales (sc. libri), chronicles, fr. annus year. Cf. Annual.]

1. A relation of events in chronological order, each event being
recorded under the year in which it happened. "Annals the
revolution." Macaulay. "The annals of our religion." Rogers.

2. Historical records; chronicles; history.
The short and simple annals of the poor. Gray.
It was one of the most critical periods in our annals. Burke.

3. sing.

Defn: The record of a single event or item. "In deathless annal."
Young.

4. A periodic publication, containing records of discoveries,
transactions of societies, etc.; as "Annals of Science."

Syn.
 -- History. See History.

ANNATS; ANNATES
An"nats, An"nates, n. pl. Etym: [See Ann.] (Eccl. Law)

Defn: The first year's profits of a spiritual preferment, anciently
paid by the clergy to the pope; first fruits. In England, they now
form a fund for the augmentation of poor livings.

ANNEAL
An*neal", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annealed; p. pr. & vb. n. Annealing.]
Etym: [OE. anelen to heat, burn, AS. an; an on + to burn; also OE.
anelen to enamel, prob. influenced by OF. neeler, nieler, to put a
black enamel on gold or silver, F. nieller, fr. LL. nigellare to
blacken, fr. L. nigellus blackish, dim. of niger black. Cf. Niello,
Negro.]

1. To subject to great heat, and then cool slowly, as glass, cast
iron, steel, or other metal, for the purpose of rendering it less
brittle; to temper; to toughen.

2. To heat, as glass, tiles, or earthenware, in order to fix the
colors laid on them.

ANNEALER
An*neal"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, anneals.

ANNEALING
An*neal"ing, n.

1. The process used to render glass, iron, etc., less brittle,
performed by allowing them to cool very gradually from a high heat.

2. The burning of metallic colors into glass, earthenware, etc.

ANNECTENT
An*nec"tent, a. Etym: [L. annectere to tie or bind to. See Annex.]

Defn: Connecting; annexing. Owen.

ANNELID; ANNELIDAN
An`ne*lid, An*nel"i*dan, a. Etym: [F. annélide, fr. anneler to
arrange in rings, OF. anel a ring, fr. L. anellus a ring, dim. of
annulus a ring.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Annelida.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Annelida.

ANNELIDA
An*nel"i*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Annelid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Articulata, having the body formed of
numerous rings or annular segments, and without jointed legs. The
principal subdivisions are the Chætopoda, including the Oligochæta or
earthworms and Polychæta or marine worms; and the Hirudinea or
leeches. See Chætopoda.

ANNELIDOUS
An*nel"i*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of the nature of an annelid.

ANNELLATA
An`nel*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Annelida.

ANNELOID
An"ne*loid, n. Etym: [F. annelé ringed + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal resembling an annelid.

ANNEX
An*nex", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annexed; p. pr. & vb. n. Annexing.]
Etym: [F. annexer, fr. L. annexus, p. p. of annectere to tie or bind
to; ad + nectere to tie, to fasten together, akin to Skr. nah to
bind.]

1. To join or attach; usually to subjoin; to affix; to append; --
followed by to. "He annexed a codicil to a will." Johnson.

2. To join or add, as a smaller thing to a greater.
He annexed a province to his kingdom. Johnson.

3. To attach or connect, as a consequence, condition, etc.; as, to
annex a penalty to a prohibition, or punishment to guilt.

Syn.
 -- To add; append; affix; unite; coalesce. See Add.

ANNEX
An*nex", v. i.

Defn: To join; to be united. Tooke.

ANNEX
An*nex", n. Etym: [F. annexe, L. annexus, neut. annexum, p. p. of
annectere.]

Defn: Something annexed or appended; as, an additional stipulation to
a writing, a subsidiary building to a main building; a wing.

ANNEXATION
An`nex*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. annexation. See Annex, v. t.]

1. The act of annexing; process of attaching, adding, or appending;
the act of connecting; union; as, the annexation of Texas to the
United States, or of chattels to the freehold.

2.
(a) (Law) The union of property with a freehold so as to become a
fixture. Bouvier. (b) (Scots Law) The appropriation of lands or rents
to the crown. Wharton.

ANNEXATIONIST
An`nex*a"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who favors annexation.

ANNEXER
An*nex"er, n.

Defn: One who annexes.

ANNEXION
An*nex"ion, n. Etym: [L. annexio a tying to, connection: cf. F.
annexion.]

Defn: Annexation. [R.] Shak.

ANNEXIONIST
An*nex"ion*ist, n.

Defn: An annexationist. [R.]

ANNEXMENT
An*nex"ment, n.

Defn: The act of annexing, or the thing annexed; appendage. [R.]
Shak.

ANNIHILABLE
An*ni"hi*la*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being annihilated.

ANNIHILATE
An*ni"hi*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annihilated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Annihilating.] Etym: [L. annihilare; ad + nihilum, nihil, nothing, ne
hilum (filum) not a thread, nothing at all. Cf. File, a row.]

1. To reduce to nothing or nonexistence; to destroy the existence of;
to cause to cease to be.
It impossible for any body to be utterly annihilated. Bacon.

2. To destroy the form or peculiar distinctive properties of, so that
the specific thing no longer exists; as, to annihilate a forest by
cutting down the trees. "To annihilate the army." Macaulay.

3. To destroy or eradicate, as a property or attribute of a thing; to
make of no effect; to destroy the force, etc., of; as, to annihilate
an argument, law, rights, goodness.

ANNIHILATE
An*ni"hi*late, a.

Defn: Anhilated. [Archaic] Swift.

ANNIHILATION
An*ni`hi*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. annihilation.]

1. The act of reducing to nothing, or nonexistence; or the act of
destroying the form or combination of parts under which a thing
exists, so that the name can no longer be applied to it; as, the
annihilation of a corporation.

2. The state of being annihilated. Hooker.

ANNIHILATIONIST
An*ni`hi*la"tion*ist, n. (Theol.)

Defn: One who believes that eternal punishment consists in
annihilation or extinction of being; a destructionist.

ANNIHILATIVE
An*ni"hi*la*tive, a.

Defn: Serving to annihilate; destructive.

ANNIHILATOR
An*ni"hi*la`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, annihilates; as, a fire annihilator.

ANNIHILATORY
An*ni"hi*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Annihilative.

ANNIVERSARILY
An`ni*ver"sa*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: Annually. [R.] Bp. Hall.

ANNIVERSARY
An`ni*ver"sa*ry, a. Etym: [L. anniversarius; annus year + vertere,
versum, to turn: cf. F. anniversaire.]

Defn: Returning with the year, at a stated time; annual; yearly; as,
an anniversary feast. Anniversary day (R. C. Ch.). See Anniversary,
n., 2.
 -- Anniversary week, that week in the year in which the annual
meetings of religious and benevolent societies are held in Boston and
New York. [Eastern U. S.]

ANNIVERSARY
An`ni*ver"sa*ry, n.; pl. Anniversaries. Etym: [Cf. F. anniversaire.]

1. The annual return of the day on which any notable event took
place, or is wont to be celebrated; as, the anniversary of the
Declaration of Independence.

2. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The day on which Mass is said yearly for the soul of a deceased
person; the commemoration of some sacred event, as the dedication of
a church or the consecration of a pope.

3. The celebration which takes place on an anniversary day. Dryden.

ANNIVERSE
An"ni*verse, n. Etym: [L. anni versus the turning of a year.]

Defn: Anniversary. [Obs.] Dryden.

ANNODATED
An"no*da`ted, a. Etym: [L. ad to + nodus a knot.] (Her.)

Defn: Curved somewhat in the form of the letter S. Cussans.

ANNO DOMINI
An"no Dom"i*ni. Etym: [L., in the year of [our] Lord [Jesus Christ];
usually abbrev. a. d.]

Defn: In the year of the Christian era; as, a. d. 1887.

ANNOMINATE
An*nom"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To name. [R.]

ANNOMINATION
An*nom`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. annominatio. See Agnomination.]

1. Paronomasia; punning.

2. Alliteration. [Obs.] Tyrwhitt.

ANNOTATE
An"no*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annotated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Annotating.] Etym: [L. annotatus; p. p. of annotare to annotate; ad +
notare to mark, nota mark. See Note, n.]

Defn: To explain or criticize by notes; as, to annotate the works of
Bacon.

ANNOTATE
An"no*tate, v. i.

Defn: To make notes or comments; -- with on or upon.

ANNOTATION
An`no*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. annotatio: cf. F. annotation.]

Defn: A note, added by way of comment, or explanation; -- usually in
the plural; as, annotations on ancient authors, or on a word or a
passage.

ANNOTATIONIST
An`no*ta"tion*ist, n.

Defn: An annotator. [R.]

ANNOTATIVE
An"no*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by annotations; of the nature of annotation.

ANNOTATOR
An"no*ta`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A writer of annotations; a commentator.

ANNOTATORY
An*no"ta*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an annotator; containing annotations. [R.]

ANNOTINE
An"no*tine, n. Etym: [L. annotinus a year old.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird one year old, or that has once molted.

ANNOTINOUS
An*not"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. annotinus, fr. annus year.] (Bot.)

Defn: A year old; in Yearly growths.

ANNOTTO; ARNOTTO
An*not"to, Ar*not"to, n. Etym: [Perh. the native name.]

Defn: A red or yellowish-red dyeing material, prepared from the pulp
surrounding the seeds of a tree (Bixa orellana) belonging to the
tropical regions of America. It is used for coloring cheese, butter,
etc. [Written also Anatto, Anatta, Annatto, Annotta, etc.]

ANNOUNCE
An*nounce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Announced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Announcing.] Etym: [OF. anoncier, F. annoncer, fr. L. annuntiare; ad
+ nuntiare to report, relate, nuntius messenger, bearer of news. See
Nuncio, and cf. Annunciate.]

1. To give public notice, or first notice of; to make known; to
publish; to proclaim.
Her [Q. Elizabeth's] arrival was announced through the country by a
peal of cannon from the ramparts. Gilpin.

2. To pronounce; to declare by judicial sentence.
Publish laws, announce Or life or death. Prior.

Syn.
 -- To proclaim; publish; make known; herald; declare; promulgate.
 -- To Publish, Announce, Proclaim, Promulgate. We publish what we
give openly to the world, either by oral communication or by means of
the press; as, to publish abroad the faults of our neighbors. We
announce what we declare by anticipation, or make known for the first
time; as, to announce the speedy publication of a book; to announce
the approach or arrival of a distinguished personage. We proclaim
anything to which we give the widest publicity; as, to proclaim the
news of victory. We promulgate when we proclaim more widely what has
before been known by some; as, to promulgate the gospel.

ANNOUNCEMENT
An*nounce"ment, n.

Defn: The act of announcing, or giving notice; that which announces;
proclamation; publication.

ANNOUNCER
An*noun"cer, n.

Defn: One who announces.

ANNOY
An*noy", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annoyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Annoying.]
Etym: [OE. anoien, anuien, OF. anoier, anuier, F. ennuyer, fr. OF.
anoi, anui, enui, annoyance, vexation, F. ennui. See Annoy, n.] To
disturb or irritate, especially by continued or repeated acts; to
tease; to ruffle in mind; to vex; as, I was annoyed by his remarks.
Say, what can more our tortured souls annoy Than to behold, admire,
and lose our joy Prior.

2. To molest, incommode, or harm; as, to annoy an army by impeding
its march, or by a cannonade.

Syn.
 -- To molest; vex; trouble; pester; embarrass; perplex; tease.

ANNOY
An*noy", n. Etym: [OE. anoi, anui, OF. anoi, anui, enui, fr. L. in
odio hatred (esse alicui in odio, Cic.). See Ennui, Odium, Noisome,
Noy.]

Defn: A feeling of discomfort or vexation caused by what one
dislikes; also, whatever causes such a feeling; as, to work annoy.
Worse than Tantalus' is her annoy. Shak.

ANNOYANCE
An*noy"ance, n. Etym: [OF. anoiance, anuiance.]

1. The act of annoying, or the state of being annoyed; molestation;
vexation; annoy.
A deep clay, giving much annoyance to passengers. Fuller.
For the further annoyance and terror of any besieged place, they
would throw into it dead bodies. Wilkins.

2. That which annoys.
A grain, a dust, a gnat, a wandering hair, Any annoyance in that
precious sense. Shak.

ANNOYER
An*noy"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, annoys.

ANNOYFUL
An*noy"ful, a.

Defn: Annoying. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANNOYING
An*noy"ing, a.

Defn: That annoys; molesting; vexatious.
 -- An*noy"ing*ly, adv.

ANNOYOUS
An*noy"ous, a. Etym: [OF. enuius, anoios.]

Defn: Troublesome; annoying. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANNUAL
An"nu*al, a. Etym: [OE. annuel, F. annuel, fr. L. annualis, fr. annus
year. Cf. Annals.]

1. Of or pertaining to a year; returning every year; coming or
happening once in the year; yearly.
The annual overflowing of the river [Nile]. Ray.

2. Performed or accomplished in a year; reckoned by the year; as, the
annual motion of the earth.
A thousand pound a year, annual support. Shak.

2. Lasting or continuing only one year or one growing season;
requiring to be renewed every year; as, an annual plant; annual
tickets. Bacon.

ANNUAL
An"nu*al, n.

1. A thing happening or returning yearly; esp. a literary work
published once a year.

2. Anything, especially a plant, that lasts but one year or season;
an annual plant.
Oaths . . . in some sense almost annuals; . . . and I myself can
remember about forty different sets. Swift.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A Mass for a deceased person or for some special object, said
daily for a year or on the anniversary day.

ANNUALIST
An"nu*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who writes for, or who edits, an annual. [R.]

ANNUALLY
An"nu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Yearly; year by year.

ANNUARY
An"nu*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. annuaire.]

Defn: Annual. [Obs.] -- n.

Defn: A yearbook.

ANNUELER
An"nu*el*er, n.

Defn: A priest employed in saying annuals, or anniversary Masses.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

ANNUENT
An"nu*ent, a. Etym: [L. annuens, p. pr. of annuere; ad + nuere to
nod.]

Defn: Nodding; as, annuent muscles (used in nodding).

ANNUITANT
An*nu"i*tant, n. Etym: [See Annuity.]

Defn: One who receives, or its entitled to receive, an annuity. Lamb.

ANNUITY
An*nu"i*ty, n.; pl. Annuities. Etym: [LL. annuitas, fr. L. annus
year: cf. F. annuité.]

Defn: A sum of money, payable yearly, to continue for a given number
of years, for life, or forever; an annual allowance.

ANNUL
An*nul", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annulled; p. pr. & vb. n. Annulling.]
Etym: [F. annuler, LL. annullare, annulare, fr. L. ad to + nullus
none, nullum, neut., nothing. See Null, a.]

1. To reduce to nothing; to obliterate.
Light, the prime work of God, to me's extinct. And all her various
objects of delight Annulled. Milton.

2. To make void or of no effect; to nullify; to abolish; to do away
with; -- used appropriately of laws, decrees, edicts, decisions of
courts, or other established rules, permanent usages, and the like,
which are made void by component authority.
Do they mean to annul laws of inestimable value to our liberties
Burke.

Syn.
 -- To abolish; abrogate; repeal; cancel; reverse; rescind; revoke;
nullify; destroy. See Abolish.

ANNULAR
An"nu*lar, a. Etym: [L. annularis, fr. annulis ring: cf. F.
annulaire.]

1. Pertaining to, or having the form of, a ring; forming a ring;
ringed; ring-shaped; as, annular fibers.

2. Banded or marked with circles. Annular eclipse (Astron.), an
eclipse of the sun in which the moon at the middle of the eclipse
conceals the central part of the sun's disk, leaving a complete ring
of light around the border.

ANNULARITY
An`nu*lar"i*ty, n.

Defn: Annular condition or form; as, the annularity of a nebula. J.
Rogers.

ANNULARRY
An"nu*lar*ry, adv.

Defn: In an annular manner.

ANNULARY
An"nu*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. annularis. See Annular.]

Defn: Having the form of a ring; annular. Ray.

ANNULATA
An`nu*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [Neut. pl., fr. L. annulatus ringed.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of articulate animals, nearly equivalent to Annelida,
including the marine annelids, earthworms, Gephyrea, Gymnotoma,
leeches, etc. See Annelida.

ANNULATE
An"nu*late, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Annulata.

ANNULATE; ANNULATED
An"nu*late, An"nu*la`ted a. Etym: [L. annulatus.]

1. Furnished with, or composed of, rings; ringed; surrounded by rings
of color.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Annulata.

ANNULATION
An`nu*la"tion, n.

Defn: A circular or ringlike formation; a ring or belt. Nicholson.

ANNULET
An"nu*let, n. Etym: [Dim. of annulus.]

1. A little ring. Tennyson.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A small, flat fillet, encircling a column, etc., used by
itself, or with other moldings. It is used, several times repeated,
under the Doric capital.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A little circle borne as a charge.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A narrow circle of some distinct color on a surface or round an
organ.

ANNULLABLE
An*nul"la*ble, a.

Defn: That may be Annulled.

ANNULLER
An*nul"ler, n.

Defn: One who annuls. [R.]

ANNULMENT
An*nul"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. annulement.]

Defn: The act of annulling; abolition; invalidation.

ANNULOID
An"nu*loid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Annuloida.

ANNULOIDA
An`nu*loid"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. annulus ring + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Articulata, including the annelids and allied
groups; sometimes made to include also the helminths and echinoderms.
[Written also Annuloidea.]

ANNULOSA
An"nu*lo"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Invertebrata, nearly equivalent to the
Articulata. It includes the Arthoropoda and Anarthropoda. By some
zoölogists it is applied to the former only.

ANNULOSAN
An`nu*lo"san, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Annulosa.

ANNULOSE
An"nu*lose` (, a. Etym: [L. annulus ring.]

1. Furnished with, or composed of, rings or ringlike segments;
ringed.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Annulosa.

ANNULUS
An"nu*lus, n.; pl. Annuli. Etym: [L.]

1. A ring; a ringlike part or space.

2. (Geom.)
(a) A space contained between the circumferences of two circles, one
within the other.
(b) The solid formed by a circle revolving around a line which is the
plane of the circle but does not cut it.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Ring-shaped structures or markings, found in, or upon, various
animals.

ANNUMERATE
An*nu"mer*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. annumeratus, p. p. of annumerare. See
Numerate.]

Defn: To add on; to count in. [Obs.] Wollaston.

ANNUMERATION
An*nu`mer*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. annumeratio.]

Defn: Addition to a former number. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ANNUNCIABLE
An*nun"ci*a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be announced or declared; declarable. [R.]

ANNUNCIATE
An*nun"ci*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annunciated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Annunciating.] Etym: [L. annuntiare. See Announce.]

Defn: To announce.

ANNUNCIATE
An*nun"ci*ate, p. p. & a.

Defn: Foretold; preannounced. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANNUNCIATION
An*nun`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. annuntiatio: cf. F. annonciation.]

1. The act of announcing; announcement; proclamation; as, the
annunciation of peace.

2. (Eccl.)
(a) The announcement of the incarnation, made by the angel Gabriel to
the Virgin Mary.
(b) The festival celebrated (March 25th) by the Church of England, of
Rome, etc., in memory of the angel's announcement, on that day; Lady
Day.

ANNUNCIATION LILY
An*nun`ci*a"tion lil"y. (Bot.)

Defn: The common white lily (Lilium candidum). So called because it
is usually introduced by painters in pictures of the Annunciation.

ANNUNCIATIVE
An*nun"ci*a*tive, a.

Defn: Pertaining to annunciation; announcing. [R.] Dr. H. More.

ANNUNCIATOR
An*nun"ci*a`tor, n. Etym: [L. annuntiator.]

1. One who announces. Specifically: An officer in the church of
Constantinople, whose business it was to inform the people of the
festivals to be celebrated.

2. An indicator (as in a hotel) which designates the room where
attendance is wanted.

ANNUNCIATORY
An*nun"ci*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, announcement; making known. [R.]

ANOA
A*noa", n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small wild ox of Celebes (Anoa depressicornis), allied to the
buffalo, but having long nearly straight horns.

ANODE
An"ode, n. Etym: [Gr. (Elec.)

Defn: The positive pole of an electric battery, or more strictly the
electrode by which the current enters the electrolyte on its way to
the other pole; -- opposed to cathode.

ANODON
An"o*don, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fresh-water bivalves, having to teeth at the hinge.
[Written also Anodonta.]

ANODYNE
An"o*dyne, a. Etym: [L. anodynus, Gr. anodin.]

Defn: Serving to assuage pain; soothing.
The anodyne draught of oblivion. Burke.

Note: "The word [in a medical sense] in chiefly applied to the
different preparations of opium, belladonna, hyoscyamus, and
lettuce." Am. Cyc.

ANODYNE
An"o*dyne, n. Etym: [L. anodynon. See Anodyne, a.]

Defn: Any medicine which allays pain, as an opiate or narcotic;
anything that soothes disturbed feelings.

ANODYNOUS
An"o*dy`nous, a.

Defn: Anodyne.

ANOETIC
An`o*et"ic, a. [Gr.  unthinkable;  priv. +  perceptible, thinkable.]

1. Unthinkable. [Rare]

2.  (Psychol.) Not subject to conscious attention; having an
indefinite, relatively passive, conscious being; characteristic of
the "fringe" or "margin" of consciousness.

Presentation considered as having an existence relatively independent
of thought, may be called sentience, or anoetic consciousness.
Thought and sentience are fundamentally distinct mental functions.
G. F. Stout.

ANOIL
A*noil", v. t. Etym: [OF. enoilier.]

Defn: The anoint with oil. [Obs.] Holinshed.

ANOINT
A*noint", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anointed; p. pr. & vb. n. Anointing.]
Etym: [OF. enoint, p. p. of enoindre, fr. L. inungere; in + ungere,
unguere, to smear, anoint. See Ointment, Unguent.]

1. To smear or rub over with oil or an unctuous substance; also, to
spread over, as oil.
And fragrant oils the stiffened limbs anoint. Dryden.
He anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay. John ix. 6.

2. To apply oil to or to pour oil upon, etc., as a sacred rite,
especially for consecration.
Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his
[Aaron's] head and anoint him. Exod. xxix. 7.
Anoint Hazael to be king over Syria. 1 Kings xix. 15.
The Lord's Anointed, Christ or the Messiah; also, a Jewish or other
king by "divine right." 1 Sam. xxvi. 9.

ANOINT
A*noint", p. p.

Defn: Anointed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANOINTER
A*noint"er, n.

Defn: One who anoints.

ANOINTMENT
A*noint"ment, n.

Defn: The act of anointing, or state of being anointed; also, an
ointment. Milton.

ANOLIS
A*no"lis, n. Etym: [In the Antilles, anoli, anoalli, a lizard.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of lizards which belong to the family Iguanidæ. They
take the place in the New World of the chameleons in the Old, and in
America are often called chameleons.

ANOMAL
A*nom"al, n.

Defn: Anything anomalous. [R.]

ANOMALIPED; ANOMALIPEDE
A*nom"a*li*ped(#), A*nom"a*li*pede, a. Etym: [L. anomalus irregular +
pes, pedis, foot.]

Defn: Having anomalous feet.

ANOMALIPED
A*nom"a*li*ped, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of perching birds, having the middle toe more or
less united to the outer and inner ones.

ANOMALISM
A*nom"a*lism, n.

Defn: An anomaly; a deviation from rule. Hooker.

ANOMALISTIC; ANOMALISTICAL
A*nom`a*lis"tic, A*nom`a*lis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. anomalistique.]

1. Irregular; departing from common or established rules.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: Pertaining to the anomaly, or angular distance of a planet from
its perihelion. Anomalistic month. See under Month.
 -- Anomalistic revolution, the period in which a planet or satellite
goes through the complete cycles of its changes of anomaly, or from
any point in its elliptic orbit to the same again.
 -- Anomalistic, or Periodical year. See under Year.

ANOMALISTICALLY
A*nom`a*lis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: With irregularity.

ANOMALOFLOROUS
A*nom`a*lo*flo"rous, a. Etym: [L. anomalus irregular + flos, floris,
flower.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having anomalous flowers.

ANOMALOUS
A*nom"a*lous, a Etym: [L. anomalus, Gr. Same, and cf. Abnormal.]

Defn: Deviating from a general rule, method, or analogy; abnormal;
irregular; as, an anomalous proceeding.

ANOMALOUSLY
A*nom"a*lous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anomalous manner.

ANOMALOUSNESS
A*nom"a*lous*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being anomalous.

ANOMALY
A*nom"a*ly, n.; pl. Anomalies. Etym: [L. anomalia, Gr. Anomalous.]

1. Deviation from the common rule; an irregularity; anything
anomalous.
We are enabled to unite into a consistent whole the various anomalies
and contending principles that are found in the minds and affairs of
men. Burke.
As Professor Owen has remarked, there is no greater anomaly in nature
than a bird that can not fly. Darwin.

2. (Astron.)
(a) The angular distance of a planet from its perihelion, as seen
from the sun. This is the true anomaly. The eccentric anomaly is a
corresponding angle at the center of the elliptic orbit of the
planet. The mean anomaly is what the anomaly would be if the planet's
angular motion were uniform.
(b) The angle measuring apparent irregularities in the motion of a
planet.

3. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Any deviation from the essential characteristics of a specific
type.

ANOMIA
A*no"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of bivalve shells, allied to the oyster, so called from
their unequal valves, of which the lower is perforated for
attachment.

ANOMOPHYLLOUS
An`o*moph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having leaves irregularly placed.

ANOMURA; ANOMOURA
An`o*mu"ra, An`o*mou"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of decapod Crustacea, of which the hermit crab in an
example.

ANOMURAL; ANOMURAN
An`o*mu"ral, An`o*mu"ran, a.

Defn: Irregular in the character of the tail or abdomen; as, the
anomural crustaceans. [Written also anomoural, anomouran.]

ANOMURAN
An`o*mu"ran, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Anomura.

ANOMY
An"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. Anomia.]

Defn: Disregard or violation of law. [R.] Glanvill.

ANON
A*non", adv. Etym: [OE. anoon, anon, anan, lit., in one (moment), fr.
AS. on in + an one. See On and One.]

1. Straightway; at once. [Obs.]
The same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it.
Matt. xiii. 20.

2. Soon; in a little while.
As it shall better appear anon. Stow.

3. At another time; then; again.
Sometimes he trots, . . . anon he rears upright. Shak.
Anon right, at once; right off. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- Ever and anon, now and then; frequently; often.
A pouncet box, which ever and anon He gave his nose. Shak.

ANONA
A*no"na, n. Etym: [NL. Cf. Ananas.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical or subtropical plants of the natural order
Anonaceæ, including the soursop.

ANONACEOUS
An`o*na"ceous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the order of plants including the soursop,
custard apple, etc.

ANONYM
An"o*nym, n. Etym: [F. anonyme. See Anonymous.]

1. One who is anonymous; also sometimes used for "pseudonym."

2. A notion which has no name, or which can not be expressed by a
single English word. [R.] J. R. Seeley.

ANONYMITY
An`o*nym"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being anonymous; anonymousness; also,
that which anonymous. [R.]
He rigorously insisted upon the rights of anonymity. Carlyle.

ANONYMOUS
A*non"y*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. Name.]

Defn: Nameless; of unknown name; also, of unknown /or unavowed
authorship; as, an anonymous benefactor; an anonymous pamphlet or
letter.

ANONYMOUSLY
A*non"y*mous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anonymous manner; without a name. Swift.

ANONYMOUSNESS
A*non"y*mous*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being anonymous. Coleridge.

ANOPHELES
A*noph"e*les (a*nof"e*lez), n. [NL., fr. Gr. 'anwfelh`s useless,
hurtful.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of mosquitoes which are secondary hosts of the malaria
parasites, and whose bite is the usual, if not the only, means of
infecting human beings with malaria. Several species are found in the
United States. They may be distinguished from the ordinary mosquitoes
of the genus Culex by the long slender palpi, nearly equaling the
beak in length, while those of the female Culex are very short. They
also assume different positions when resting, Culex usually holding
the body parallel to the surface on which it rests and keeping the
head and beak bent at an angle, while Anopheles holds the body at an
angle with the surface and the head and beak in line with it. Unless
they become themselves infected by previously biting a subject
affected with malaria, the insects cannot transmit the disease.

ANOPHYTE
An"o*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A moss or mosslike plant which cellular stems, having usually
an upward growth and distinct leaves.

ANOPLA
An"o*pla, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the two orders of Nemerteans. See Nemertina.

ANOPLOTHERE; ANOPLOTHERIUM
An*op"lo*there, An`o*plo*the"ri*um, n. Etym: [From Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of extinct quadrupeds of the order Ungulata, whose were
first found in the gypsum quarries near Paris; characterized by the
shortness and feebleness of their canine teeth (whence the name).

ANOPLURA
An`o*plu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of insects which includes the lice.

ANOPSIA; ANOPSY
A*nop"si*a, An"op`sy, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Want or defect of sight; blindness.

ANOREXIA; ANOREXY
An`o*rex"i*a, An"o*rex`y n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Want of appetite, without a loathing of food. Coxe.

ANORMAL
A*nor"mal, a. Etym: [F. anormal. See Abnormal, Normal.]

Defn: Not according to rule; abnormal. [Obs.]

ANORN
A*norn, v. t. Etym: [OF. aörner, aöurner, fr. L. adornare to adorn.
The form a-ourne was corrupted into anourne.]

Defn: To adorn. [Obs.] Bp. Watson.

ANORTHIC
A*nor"thic, a. Etym: [See Anorthite.] (Min.)

Defn: Having unequal oblique axes; as, anorthic crystals.

ANORTHITE
A*nor"thite, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A mineral of the feldspar family, commonly occurring in small
glassy crystals, also a constituent of some igneous rocks. It is a
lime feldspar. See Feldspar.

ANORTHOCLASE
A*nor"tho*clase, n. [Gr.  priv. + orthoclase.] (Min.)

Defn: A feldspar closely related to orthoclase, but triclinic. It is
chiefly a silicate of sodium, potassium, and aluminium. Sp. gr., 2.57
-- 2.60.

ANORTHOPIA
An`or*tho"pi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  priv. + ortho- + Gr. , , the eye.]
(Med.)

Defn: Distorted vision, in which straight lines appear bent.

ANORTHOSCOPE
A*nor"tho*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Physics)

Defn: An optical toy for producing amusing figures or pictures by
means of two revolving disks, on one of which distorted figures are
painted.

ANORTHOSITE
A*nor"tho*site, n. [F. anorthose triclinic feldspar (fr. Gr.  priv. +
straight) + -ite.] (Petrol.)

Defn: A granular igneous rock composed almost exclusively of a soda-
lime feldspar, usually labradorite.

ANOSMIA
A*nos"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Loss of the sense of smell.

ANOTHER
An*oth"er, pron. & a. Etym: [An a, one + other.]

1. One more, in addition to a former number; a second or additional
one, similar in likeness or in effect.
Another yet! -- a seventh! I 'll see no more. Shak.
Would serve to scale another Hero's tower. Shak.

2. Not the same; different.
He winks, and turns his lips another way. Shak.

3. Any or some; any different person, indefinitely; any one else;
some one else.
Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth. Prov. xxvii. 2.
While I am coming, another steppeth down before me. John v. 7.

Note: As a pronoun another may have a possessive another's, pl.
others, poss. pl. other'. It is much used in opposition to one; as,
one went one way, another another. It is also used with one, in a
reciprocal sense; as, "love one another," that is, let each love the
other or others. "These two imparadised in one another's arms."
Milton.

ANOTHER-GAINES
An*oth"er-gaines`, a. Etym: [Corrupted fr. another-gates.]

Defn: Of another kind. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

ANOTHER-GATES
An*oth"er-gates`, a. Etym: [Another + gate, or gait, way. Cf.
Algates.]

Defn: Of another sort. [Obs.] "Another-gates adventure." Hudibras.

ANOTHER-GUESS
An*oth"er-guess, a. Etym: [Corrupted fr. another-gates.]

Defn: Of another sort. [Archaic]
It used to go in another-guess manner. Arbuthnot.

ANOTTA
A*not"ta, n.

Defn: See Annotto.

ANOURA
An*ou"ra, n.

Defn: See Anura.

ANOUROUS
An*ou"rous, a.

Defn: See Anurous.

ANOXAEMIA; ANOXEMIA
An`ox*æ"mi*a, An`ox*e"mi*a, n. [NL.; Gr.  priv. + oxygen + Gr.
blood.] (Med.)

Defn: An abnormal condition due to deficient aëration of the blood,
as in balloon sickness, mountain sickness. -- An`ox*æ"mic, *e"mic
(#), a.

ANSA
An"sa, n.; pl. Ansæ. Etym: [L., a handle.] (Astron.)

Defn: A name given to either of the projecting ends of Saturn's ring.

ANSATED
An"sa*ted, a. Etym: [L. ansatus, fr. ansa a handle.]

Defn: Having a handle. Johnson.

ANSERATED
An"ser*a`ted, a. (Her.)

Defn: Having the extremities terminate in the heads of eagles, lions,
etc.; as, an anserated cross.

ANSERES
An"se*res, n. pl. Etym: [L., geese.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A Linnæan order of aquatic birds swimming by means of webbed
feet, as the duck, or of lobed feet, as the grebe. In this order were
included the geese, ducks, auks, divers, gulls, petrels, etc.

ANSERIFORMES
An`se*ri*for"mes, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of birds including the geese, ducks, and closely
allied forms.

ANSERINE
An"ser*ine, a Etym: [L. anserinus, fr. anser a goose.]

1. Pertaining to, or resembling, a goose, or the skin of a goose.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Anseres.

ANSEROUS
An"ser*ous, a. Etym: [L. anser a goose.]

Defn: Resembling a goose; silly; simple. Sydney Smith.

ANSWER
An"swer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Answered; p. pr. & vb. n. Answering.]
Etym: [OE. andswerien, AS. andswerian, andswarian, to answer, fr.
andswaru, n., answer. See Answer, n.]

1. To speak in defense against; to reply to in defense; as, to answer
a charge; to answer an accusation.

2. To speak or write in return to, as in return to a call or
question, or to a speech, declaration, argument, or the like; to
reply to (a question, remark, etc.); to respond to.
She answers him as if she knew his mind. Shak.
So spake the apostate angel, though in pain: . . . And him thus
answered soon his bold compeer. Milton.

3. To respond to satisfactorily; to meet successfully by way of
explanation, argument, or justification, and the like; to refute.
No man was able to answer him a word. Matt. xxii. 46.
These shifts refuted, answer thine appellant. Milton.
The reasoning was not and could not be answered. Macaulay.

4. To be or act in return or response to. Hence:
(a) To be or act in compliance with, in fulfillment or satisfaction
of, as an order, obligation, demand; as, he answered my claim upon
him; the servant answered the bell.
This proud king . . . studies day and night To answer all the debts
he owes unto you. Shak.

(b) To render account to or for.
I will . . . send him to answer thee. Shak.

(c) To atone; to be punished for.
And grievously hath Cæzar answered it. Shak.

(d) To be opposite to; to face.
The windows answering each other, we could just discern the glowing
horizon them. Gilpin.

(e) To be or act an equivalent to, or as adequate or sufficient for;
to serve for; to repay. [R.]
Money answereth all things. Eccles. x. 19.

(f) To be or act in accommodation, conformity, relation, or
proportion to; to correspond to; to suit.
Weapons must needs be dangerous things, if they answered the bulk of
so prodigious a person. Swift.

ANSWER
An"swer, v. i.

1. To speak or write by way of return (originally, to a charge), or
in reply; to make response.
There was no voice, nor any that answered. 1 Kings xviii. 26.

2. To make a satisfactory response or return. Hence: To render
account, or to be responsible; to be accountable; to make amends; as,
the man must answer to his employer for the money intrusted to his
care.
Let his neck answer for it, if there is any martial law. Shak.

3. To be or act in return. Hence:
(a) To be or act by way of compliance, fulfillment, reciprocation, or
satisfaction; to serve the purpose; as, gypsum answers as a manure on
some soils.
Do the strings answer to thy noble hand Dryden.

(b) To be opposite, or to act in opposition.
(c) To be or act as an equivalent, or as adequate or sufficient; as,
a very few will answer.
(d) To be or act in conformity, or by way of accommodation,
correspondence, relation, or proportion; to conform; to correspond;
to suit; -- usually with to.
That the time may have all shadow and silence in it, and the place
answer to convenience. Shak.
If this but answer to my just belief, I 'll remember you. Shak.
As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man. Pro

ANSWER
An"swer, n. Etym: [OE. andsware, AS. andswaru; and against + swerian
to swear. Anti-, and Swear, and cf. 1st un-.]

1. A reply to a change; a defense.
At my first answer no man stood with me. 2 Tim. iv. 16.

2. Something said or written in reply to a question, a call, an
argument, an address, or the like; a reply.
A soft answer turneth away wrath. Prov. xv. 1.
I called him, but he gave me no answer. Cant. v. 6.

3. Something done in return for, or in consequence of, something
else; a responsive action.
Great the slaughter is Here made by the Roman; great the answer be
Britons must take. Shak.

4. A solution, the result of a mathematical operation; as, the answer
to a problem.

5. (Law)

Defn: A counter-statement of facts in a course of pleadings; a
confutation of what the other party has alleged; a responsive
declaration by a witness in reply to a question. In Equity, it is the
usual form of defense to the complainant's charges in his bill.
Bouvier.

Syn.
 -- Reply; rejoinder; response. See Reply.

ANSWERABLE
An"swer*a*ble, a.

1. Obliged to answer; liable to be called to account; liable to pay,
indemnify, or make good; accountable; amenable; responsible; as, an
agent is answerable to his principal; to be answerable for a debt, or
for damages.
Will any man argue that . . . he can not be justly punished, but is
answerable only to God Swift.

2. Capable of being answered or refuted; admitting a satisfactory
answer.
The argument, though subtle, is yet answerable. Johnson.

3. Correspondent; conformable; hence, comparable.
What wit and policy of man is answerable to their discreet and
orderly course Holland.
This revelation . . . was answerable to that of the apostle to the
Thessalonians. Milton.

4. Proportionate; commensurate; suitable; as, an achievement
answerable to the preparation for it.

5. Equal; equivalent; adequate. [Archaic]
Had the valor of his soldiers been answerable, he had reached that
year, as was thought, the utmost bounds of Britain. Milton.

ANSWERABLENESS
An"swer*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being answerable, liable, responsible, or
correspondent.

ANSWERABLY
An"swer*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an answerable manner; in due proportion or correspondence;
suitably.

ANSWERER
An"swer*er, n.

Defn: One who answers.

ANSWERLESS
An"swer*less, a.

Defn: Having no answer, or impossible to be answered. Byron.

AN 'T
An 't.

Defn: An it, that is, and it or if it. See An, conj. [Obs.]

AN'T
An't.

Defn: A contraction for are and am not; also used for is not; -- now
usually written ain't. [Colloq. & illiterate speech.]

ANT-
Ant-.

Defn: See Anti-, prefix.

-ANT
-ant. Etym: [F. -ant, fr. L. -antem or -entem, the pr. p. ending;
also sometimes directly from L. -antem.]

Defn: A suffix sometimes marking the agent for action; as, merchant,
covenant, servant, pleasant, etc. Cf. -ent.

ANT
Ant, n. Etym: [OE. ante, amete, emete, AS. æmete akin to G. ameise.
Cf. Emmet.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hymenopterous insect of the Linnæan genus Formica, which is
now made a family of several genera; an emmet; a pismire.

Note: Among ants, as among bees, there are neuter or working ants,
besides the males and females; the former are without wings. Ants
live together in swarms, usually raising hillocks of earth, variously
chambered within, where they maintain a perfect system of order,
store their provisions, and nurture their young. There are many
species, with diverse habits, as agricultural ants, carpenter ants,
honey ants, foraging ants, amazon ants, etc. The white ants or
Termites belong to the Neuroptera. Ant bird (Zoöl.), one of a very
extensive group of South American birds (Formicariidæ), which live on
ants. The family includes many species, some of which are called ant
shrikes, ant thrushes, and ant wrens.
 -- Ant rice (Bot.), a species of grass (Aristida oligantha)
cultivated by the agricultural ants of Texas for the sake of its
seed.

ANTA
An"ta, n.; pl. Antæ. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)

Defn: A species of pier produced by thickening a wall at its
termination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital and
base.

Note: Porches, when columns stand between two antæ, are called in
Latin in antis.

ANTACID
Ant*ac"id, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + acid.] (Med.)

Defn: A remedy for acidity of the stomach, as an alkali or absorbent.
 -- a.

Defn: Counteractive of acidity.

ANTACRID
Ant*ac"rid, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + acrid.]

Defn: Corrective of acrimony of the humors.

ANTAEAN
An*tæ"an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to Antæus, a giant athlete slain by Hercules.

ANTAGONISM
An*tag"o*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. antagonisme. See Agony.]

Defn: Opposition of action; counteraction or contrariety of things or
principles.

Note: We speak of antagonism between two things, to or against a
thing, and sometimes with a thing.

ANTAGONIST
An*tag"o*nist, n. Etym: [L. antagonista, Gr. antagoniste. See
Antagonism.]

1. One who contends with another, especially in combat; an adversary;
an opponent.
Antagonist of Heaven's Almigthy King. Milton.
Our antagonists in these controversies. Hooker.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which acts in opposition to another; as a flexor,
which bends a part, is the antagonist of an extensor, which extends
it.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine which opposes the action of another medicine or of a
poison when absorbed into the blood or tissues.

Syn.
 -- Adversary; enemy; opponent; toe; competitor. See Adversary.

ANTAGONIST
An*tag"o*nist, a.

Defn: Antagonistic; opposing; counteracting; as, antagonist schools
of philosophy.

ANTAGONISTIC; ANTAGONISTICAL
An*tag`o*nis"tic, An*tag`o*nis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Opposing in combat, combating; contending or acting against;
as, antagonistic forces.
 -- An*tag`o*nis"tic*al*ly, adv.
They were distinct, adverse, even antagonistic. Milman.

ANTAGONIZE
An*tag"o*nize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Antagonized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Antagonozing.] Etym: [Gr. Antagonism.]

Defn: To contend with; to oppose actively; to counteract.

ANTAGONIZE
An*tag"o*nize, v. i.

Defn: To act in opposition.

ANTAGONY
An*tag"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. antagonie. See Antagonism.]

Defn: Contest; opposition; antagonism. [Obs.]
Antagony that is between Christ and Belial. Milton.

ANTALGIC
An*tal"gic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. antalgique.] (Med.)

Defn: Alleviating pain.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine to alleviate pain; an anodyne. [R.]

ANTALKALI; ANTALKALINE
Ant*al"ka*li, Ant*al"ka*line, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + alkali.]

Defn: Anything that neutralizes, or that counteracts an alkaline
tendency in the system. Hoopplw.

ANTALKALINE
Ant*al"ka*line, a.

Defn: Of power to counteract alkalies.

ANTAMBULACRAL
Ant*am`bu*la"cral, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Away from the ambulacral region.

ANTANACLASIS
Ant`an*a*cla"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. Anaclastic.] (Rhet.)
(a) A figure which consists in repeating the same word in a different
sense; as, Learn some craft when young, that when old you may live
without craft.
(b) A repetition of words beginning a sentence, after a long
parenthesis; as, Shall that heart (which not only feels them, but
which has all motions of life placed in them), shall that heart, etc.

ANTANAGOGE
Ant`an*a*go"ge, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + anagoge.] (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure which consists in answering the charge of an
adversary, by a counter charge.

ANTAPHRODISIAC
Ant`aph*ro*dis"i*ac, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + aphrodisiac.] (Med.)

Defn: Capable of blunting the venereal appetite.
 -- n.

Defn: Anything that quells the venereal appetite.

ANTAPHRODITIC
Ant`aph*ro*dit"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. antaphroditique.]
(Med.)

1. Antaphrodisiac.

2. Antisyphilitic. [R.]

ANTAPHRODITIC
Ant`aph*ro*dit"ic, n.

Defn: An antaphroditic medicine.

ANTAPOPLECTIC
Ant`ap*o*plec"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + apoplectic.] (Med.)

Defn: Good against apoplexy.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine used against apoplexy.

ANTARCHISM
Ant*ar"chism, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.

Defn: Opposition to government in general. [R.]

ANTARCHIST
Ant*ar"chist, n.

Defn: One who opposes all government. [R.]

ANTARCHISTIC; ANTARCHISTICAL
Ant`ar*chis"tic, Ant`ar*chis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Opposed to all human government. [R.]

ANTARCTIC
Ant*arc"tic, a. Etym: [OE. antartik, OF. antartique, F. antarctique,
L. antarcticus, fr. Gr. Arctic.]

Defn: Opposite to the northern or arctic pole; relating to the
southern pole or to the region near it, and applied especially to a
circle, distant from the pole 23º 28min. Thus we say the antarctic
pole, circle, ocean, region, current, etc.

ANTARES
An*ta"res, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The principal star in Scorpio: -- called also the Scorpion's
Heart.

ANTARTHRITIC
Ant`ar*thrit"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + arthritic.] (Med.)
Counteracting or alleviating gout.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy against gout.

ANTASTHMATIC
Ant`asth*mat"ic ( or ; see Asthma; 277), a. Etym: [Pref. anti- +
asthmatic.] (Med.)

Defn: Opposing, or fitted to relieve, asthma.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for asthma.

ANT-BEAR
Ant"-bear`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An edentate animal of tropical America (the Tamanoir), living
on ants. It belongs to the genus Myrmecophaga.

ANT BIRD
Ant" bird, (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Ant bird, under Ant, n.

ANT-CATTLE
Ant"-cat`tle, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Various kinds of plant lice or aphids tended by ants for the
sake of the honeydew which they secrete. See Aphips.

ANT COW
Ant cow. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any aphid from which ants obtain honeydew.

ANTE-
An"te-.

Defn: A Latin preposition and prefix; akin to Gr. anti, Goth. and-,
anda- (only in comp.), AS. and-, ond-, (only in comp.: cf. Answer,
Along), G. ant-, ent- (in comp.). The Latin ante is generally used in
the sense of before, in regard to position, order, or time, and the
Gr. opposite, or in the place of.

ANTE
An"te, n. (Poker Playing)

Defn: Each player's stake, which is put into the pool before (ante)
the game begins.

ANTE
An"te, v. t. & i.

Defn: To put up (an ante).

ANTEACT
An"te*act`, n.

Defn: A preceding act.

ANTEAL
An"te*al, a. Etym: [antea, ante, before. Cf. Ancient.]

Defn: Being before, or in front. [R.] J. Fleming.

ANT-EATER
Ant"-eat`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of edentates and monotremes that feed
upon ants. See Ant-bear, Pangolin, Aard-vark, and Echidna.

ANTECEDANEOUS
An`te*ce*da"ne*ous, a. Etym: [See Antecede.]

Defn: Antecedent; preceding in time. "Capable of antecedaneous
proof." Barrow.

ANTECEDE
An`te*cede", v. t. & i. Etym: [L. antecedere; ante + cedere to go.
See Cede.]

Defn: To go before in time or place; to precede; to surpass. Sir M.
Hale.

ANTECEDENCE
An`te*ced"ence, n.

1. The act or state of going before in time; precedence. H. Spenser.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: An apparent motion of a planet toward the west; retrogradation.

ANTECEDENCY
An`te*ced"en*cy, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being antecedent; priority.
Fothherby.

ANTECEDENT
An`te*ced"ent, a. Etym: [L. antecedens, -entis, p. pr. of antecedere:
cf. F. antécédent.]

1. Going before in time; prior; anterior; preceding; as, an event
antecedent to the Deluge; an antecedent cause.

2. Presumptive; as, an antecedent improbability.

Syn.
 -- Prior; previous; foregoing.

ANTECEDENT
An`te*ced"ent, n. Etym: [Cf. F. antécédent.]

1. That which goes before in time; that which precedes. South.
The Homeric mythology, as well as the Homeric language, has surely
its antecedents. Max Miller.

2. One who precedes or goes in front. [Obs.]
My antecedent, or my gentleman usher. Massinger.

3. pl.

Defn: The earlier events of one's life; previous principles, conduct,
course, history. J. H. Newman.
If the troops . . . prove worthy of their antecedents, the victory is
surely ours. Gen. G. McClellan.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: The noun to which a relative refers; as, in the sentence
"Solomon was the prince who built the temple," prince is the
antecedent of who.

5. (Logic)
(a) The first or conditional part of a hypothetical proposition; as,
If the earth is fixed, the sun must move.
(b) The first of the two propositions which constitute an enthymeme
or contracted syllogism; as, Every man is mortal; therefore the king
must die.

6. (Math.)

Defn: The first of the two terms of a ratio; the first or third of
the four terms of a proportion. In the ratio a:b, a is the
antecedent, and b the consequent.

ANTECEDENTLY
An`te*ced"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: Previously; before in time; at a time preceding; as,
antecedently to conversion. Barrow.

ANTECESSOR
An`te*ces"sor, n. Etym: [L., fr. antecedere, antecessum. See
Antecede, Ancestor.]

1. One who goes before; a predecessor.
The successor seldom prosecuting his antecessor's devices. Sir E.
Sandys.

2. An ancestor; a progenitor. [Obs.]

ANTECHAMBER
An"te*cham`ber, n. Etym: [Cf. F. antichambre.]

1. A chamber or apartment before the chief apartment and leading into
it, in which persons wait for audience; an outer chamber. See Lobby.

2. A space viewed as the outer chamber or the entrance to an interior
part.
The mouth, the antechamber to the digestive canal. Todd & Bowman.

ANTECHAPEL
An"te*chap`el, n.

Defn: The outer part of the west end of a collegiate or other chapel.
Shipley.

ANTECHOIR
An"te*choir`, n. (Arch.)
 (a) A space inclosed or reserved at the entrance to the choir, for
the clergy and choristers.
 (b) Where a choir is divided, as in some Spanish churches, that
division of it which is the farther from the sanctuary.

ANTECIANS
An*te"cians, n. pl.

Defn: See Ant.

ANTECOMMUNION
An`te*com*mun"ion, n.

Defn: A name given to that part of the Anglican liturgy for the
communion, which precedes the consecration of the elements.

ANTECURSOR
An`te*cur"sor, n. Etym: [L., fr. antecurrere to run before; ante +
currere to run.]

Defn: A forerunner; a precursor. [Obs.]

ANTEDATE
An"te*date`, n.

1. Prior date; a date antecedent to another which is the actual date.

2. Anticipation. [Obs.] Donne.

ANTEDATE
An"te*date`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Antedated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Antedating.]

1. To date before the true time; to assign to an earlier date; thus,
to antedate a deed or a bond is to give it a date anterior to the
true time of its execution.

2. To precede in time.

3. To anticipate; to make before the true time.
And antedate the bliss above. Pope.
Who rather rose the day to antedate. Wordsworth.

ANTEDILUVIAL
An`te*di*lu"vi*al, a. Etym: [Pref. ante- + diluvial.]

Defn: Before the flood, or Deluge, in Noah's time.

ANTEDILUVIAN
An`te*di*lu"vi*an, a.

Defn: Of or relating to the period before the Deluge in Noah's time;
hence, antiquated; as, an antediluvian vehicle.
 -- n.

Defn: One who lived before the Deluge.

ANTEFACT
An"te*fact`, n.

Defn: Something done before another act. [Obs.]

ANTEFIX
An"te*fix`, n.; pl. E. Antefixes; L. Antefixa. Etym: [L. ante + fixus
fixed.] (Arch.)
(a) An ornament fixed upon a frieze.
(b) An ornament at the eaves, concealing the ends of the joint tiles
of the roof.
(c) An ornament of the cymatium of a classic cornice, sometimes
pierced for the escape of water.

ANTEFLEXION
An`te*flex"ion, n. (Med.)

Defn: A displacement forward of an organ, esp. the uterus, in such
manner that its axis is bent upon itself. T. G. Thomas.

ANT EGG
Ant" egg`.

Defn: One of the small white egg-shaped pupæ or cocoons of the ant,
often seen in or about ant-hills, and popularly supposed to be eggs.

ANTELOPE
An"te*lope, n. Etym: [OF. antelop, F. antilope, fro Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of ruminant quadrupeds, intermediate between the
deer and the goat. The horns are usually annulated, or ringed. There
are many species in Africa and Asia.
The antelope and wolf both fierce and fell. Spenser.

Note: The common or bezoar antelope of India is Antilope bezoartica.
The chamois of the Alps, the gazelle, the addax, and the eland are
other species. See Gazelle. The pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra
Americana) is found in the Rocky Mountains. See Pronghorn.

ANTELUCAN
An`te*lu"can, a. Etym: [L. antelucanus; ante + lux light.]

Defn: Held or being before light; -- a word applied to assemblies of
Christians, in ancient times of persecution, held before light in the
morning. "Antelucan worship." De Quincey.

ANTEMERIDIAN
An`te*me*rid"i*an, a. Etym: [L. antemeridianus; ante + meridianus
belonging to midday or noon. See Meridian.]

Defn: Being before noon; in or pertaining to the forenoon. (Abbrev.
a. m.)

ANTEMETIC
Ant`e*met"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + emetic.] (Med.)

Defn: Tending to check vomiting.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy to check or allay vomiting.

ANTE MORTEM
An`te mor"tem. [L.]

Defn: Before death; -- generally used adjectivelly; as, an ante-
mortem statement; ante-mortem examination.

 The ante-mortem statement, or dying declaration made in view of
death, by one injured, as to the cause and manner of the injury, is
often receivable in evidence against one charged with causing the
death.

ANTEMOSAIC
An`te*mo*sa"ic, a.

Defn: Being before the time of Moses.

ANTEMUNDANE
An`te*mun"dane, a.

Defn: Being or occurring before the creation of the world. Young.

ANTEMURAL
An`te*mu"ral, n. Etym: [L. antemurale: ante + murus wall. See Mural.]

Defn: An outwork of a strong, high wall, with turrets, in front
gateway (as of an old castle), for defending the entrance.

ANTENATAL
An`te*na"tal, a.

Defn: Before birth. Shelley.

ANTENICENE
An`te*ni"cene, a. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Of or in the Christian church or era, anterior to the first
council of Nice, held a. d. 325; as, antenicene faith.

ANTENNA
An*ten"na, n.; pl. Antennæ. Etym: [L. antenna sail-yard; NL., a
feeler, horn of an insect.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A movable, articulated organ of sensation, attached to the
heads of insects and Crustacea. There are two in the former, and
usually four in the latter. They are used as organs of touch, and in
some species of Crustacea the cavity of the ear is situated near the
basal joint. In insects, they are popularly called horns, and also
feelers. The term in also applied to similar organs on the heads of
other arthropods and of annelids.

ANTENNAL
An*ten"nal, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the antennæ. Owen.

ANTENNIFEROUS
An`ten*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Antenna + -ferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Bearing or having antennæ.

ANTENNIFORM
An*ten"ni*form, a. Etym: [Antenna + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like antennæ.

ANTENNULE
An*ten"nule, n. Etym: [Dim. of antenna.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small antenna; -- applied to the smaller pair of antennæ or
feelers of Crustacea.

ANTENUMBER
An`te*num"ber, n.

Defn: A number that precedes another. [R.] Bacon.

ANTENUPTIAL
An`te*nup"tial, a.

Defn: Preceding marriage; as, an antenuptial agreement. Kent.

ANTEORBITAL
An`te*or"bit*al, a. & n. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Antorbital.

ANTEPASCHAL
An`te*pas"chal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the time before the Passover, or before Easter.

ANTEPAST
An"te*past, n. Etym: [Pref. ante- + L. pastus pasture, food. Cf.
Repast.]

Defn: A foretaste.
Antepasts of joy and comforts. Jer. Taylor.

ANTEPENDIUM
An`te*pen"di*um, n. Etym: [LL., fr. L. ante + pendere to hang.]
(Eccl.)

Defn: The hangings or screen in front of the altar; an altar cloth;
the frontal. Smollett.

ANTEPENULT; ANTEPENULTIMA
An`te*pe"nult, An`te*pe*nult"i*ma, n. Etym: [L. antepaenultima (sc.
syllaba) antepenultimate; ante before + paenultimus the last but one;
paene almost + ultimus last.] (Pros.)

Defn: The last syllable of a word except two, as -syl in
monosyllable.

ANTEPENULTIMATE
An`te*pe*nult"i*mate, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the last syllable but two.
 -- n.

Defn: The antepenult.

ANTEPHIALTIC
Ant`eph*i*al"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Good against nightmare.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy nightmare. Dunglison.

ANTEPILEPTIC
Ant`ep*i*lep"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + epileptic.] (Med.)

Defn: Good against epilepsy.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for epilepsy.

ANTEPONE
An"te*pone, v. t. Etym: [L. anteponere.]

Defn: To put before; to prefer. [Obs.] Bailey.

ANTEPORT
An"te*port, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. anteporta.]

Defn: An outer port, gate, or door.

ANTEPORTICO
An`te*por"ti*co, n.

Defn: An outer porch or vestibule.

ANTEPOSITION
An`te*po*si"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. antepositio. See Position.]
(Gram.)

Defn: The placing of a before another, which, by ordinary rules,
ought to follow it.

ANTEPRANDIAL
An`te*pran"di*al, a.

Defn: Preceding dinner.

ANTEPREDICAMENT
An`te*pre*dic"a*ment, n. (Logic)

Defn: A prerequisite to a clear understanding of the predicaments and
categories, such as definitions of common terms. Chambers.

ANTERIOR
An*te"ri*or, a. Etym: [L. anterior, comp. of ante before.]

1. Before in time; antecedent.
Antigonus, who was anterior to Polybius. Sir G. C. Lewis.

2. Before, or toward the front, in place; as, the anterior part of
the mouth; -- opposed to posterior.

Note: In comparative anatomy, anterior often signifies at or toward
the head, cephalic; and in human anatomy it is often used for
ventral.

Syn.
 -- Antecedent; previous; precedent; preceding; former; foregoing.

ANTERIORITY
An*te`ri*or"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. anterioritas.]

Defn: The state of being anterior or preceding in time or in
situation; priority. Pope.

ANTERIORLY
An*te"ri*or*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anterior manner; before.

ANTERO-
An"te*ro-.

Defn: A combining form meaning anterior, front; as, antero-posterior,
front and back; antero-lateral, front side, anterior and at the side.

ANTEROOM
An"te*room, n.

Defn: A room before, or forming an entrance to, another; a waiting
room.

ANTES; ANTAE
An"tes, n. pl. Antæ.

Defn: See Anta.

ANTESTATURE
An`te*stat"ure, n. (Fort.)

Defn: A small intrenchment or work of palisades, or of sacks of
earth.

ANTESTOMACH
An"te*stom`ach, n.

Defn: A cavity which leads into the stomach, as in birds. Ray.

ANTETEMPLE
An"te*tem`ple, n.

Defn: The portico, or narthex in an ancient temple or church.

ANTEVERSION
An`te*ver"sion, n. Etym: [Pref. ante- + L. vertere, versum, to turn.]
(Med.)

Defn: A displacement of an organ, esp. of the uterus, in such manner
that its whole axis is directed further forward than usual.

ANTEVERT
An`te*vert", v. t. Etym: [L. antevertere; ante + vertere to turn.]

1. To prevent. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

2. (Med.)

Defn: To displace by anteversion.

ANTHELION
Ant*hel"ion, n.; pl. Anthelia. Etym: [Pref. anti + Gr. (Meteor.)

Defn: A halo opposite the sun, consisting of a colored ring or rings
around the shadow of the spectator's own head, as projected on a
cloud or on an opposite fog bank.

ANTHELIX
Ant"he*lix, n. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Antihelix.

ANTHELMINTIC
An"thel*min"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Good against intestinal worms.
 -- An anthelmintic remedy. [Written also anthelminthic.]

ANTHEM
An"them, n. Etym: [OE. antym, antefne, AS. antefen, fr. LL.
antiphona, fr. Gr. anthaine, anteine, antieune, F. antienne. See
Antiphon.]

1. Formerly, a hymn sung in alternate parts, in present usage, a
selection from the Psalms, or other parts of the Scriptures or the
liturgy, set to sacred music.

2. A song or hymn of praise. Milton.

ANTHEM
An"them, v. t.

Defn: To celebrate with anthems. [Poet.]
Sweet birds antheming the morn. Keats.

ANTHEMION
An*the"mi*on, Etym: [ fr. Gr.

Defn: A floral ornament. See Palmette.

ANTHEMIS
An"the*mis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Chamomile; a genus of composite, herbaceous plants.

ANTHEMWISE
An"them*wise`, adv.

Defn: Alternately. [Obs.] Bacon.

ANTHER
An"ther, n. Etym: [F. anthère, L. anthera a medicine composed of
flowers, fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: That part of the stamen containing the pollen, or fertilizing
dust, which, when mature, is emitted for the impregnation of the
ovary.
 -- An"ther*al, a.

ANTHERIDIUM
An`ther*id"i*um, n.; pl. Anthplwidia. Etym: [Anther + (Bot.)

Defn: The male reproductive apparatus in the lower, consisting of a
cell or other cavity in which spermatozoids are produced; -- called
also spermary.
 -- An`ther*id"i*al, a.

ANTHERIFEROUS
An`ther*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Anther + -ferous.] (Bot.)
(a) Producing anthers, as plants.
(b) Supporting anthers, as a part of a flower. Gray.

ANTHERIFORM
An*ther"i*form, a. Etym: [Anther + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like an anther; anther-shaped.

ANTHEROGENOUS
An`ther*og"e*nous, a. Etym: [Anther + -genous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Transformed from anthers, as the petals of a double flower.

ANTHEROID
An"ther*oid, a. Etym: [Anther + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling an anther.

ANTHEROZOID; ANTHEROZOOID
An`ther*o*zoid, An`ther*o*zoo"id, n. Etym: [Gr. -oid. See Zooid.]
(Bot.)

Defn: One of the mobile male reproductive bodies in the antheridia of
cryptogams.

ANTHESIS
An*the"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The period or state of full expansion in a flower. Gray.

ANT-HILL
Ant"-hill, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A mound thrown up by ants or by termites in forming their
nests.

ANTHOBIAN
An*tho"bi*an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beetle which feeds on flowers.

ANTHOBRANCHIA
An`tho*bran"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of nudibranchiate Mollusca, in which the gills form
a wreath or cluster upon the posterior part of the back. See
Nudibranchiata, and Doris.

ANTHOCARPOUS
An`tho*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having some portion of the floral envelopes attached to the
pericarp to form the fruit, as in the checkerberry, the mulberry, and
the pineapple.

ANTHOCYANIN
An`tho*cy"a*nin, n.

Defn: Same as Anthokyan.

ANTHODIUM
An*tho"di*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The inflorescence of a compound flower in which many florets
are gathered into a involucrate head.

ANTHOGRAPHY
An*thog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A description of flowers.

ANTHOID
An"thoid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Resembling a flower; flowerlike.

ANTHOKYAN
An`tho*ky"an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: The blue coloring matter of certain flowers. Same as Cyanin.

ANTHOLITE
An"tho*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil plant, like a petrified flower.

ANTHOLOGICAL
An`tho*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to anthology; consisting of beautiful extracts from
different authors, especially the poets.
He published a geographical and anthological description of all
empires and kingdoms . . . in this terrestrial globe. Wood.

ANTHOLOGIST
An*thol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who compiles an anthology.

ANTHOLOGY
An*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A discourses on flowers. [R.]

2. A collection of flowers; a garland. [R.]

3. A collection of flowers of literature, that is, beautiful passages
from authors; a collection of poems or epigrams; -- particularly
applied to a collection of ancient Greek epigrams.

4. (Gr. Ch.)

Defn: A service book containing a selection of pieces for the
festival services.

ANTHOMANIA
An`tho*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A extravagant fondness for flowers. [R.]

ANTHONY'S FIRE
An"tho*ny's Fire`.

Defn: See Saint Anthony's Fire, under Saint.

ANTHOPHAGOUS
An*thoph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Eating flowers; -- said of certain insects.

ANTHOPHILOUS
An*thoph"i*lous, a. [Gr. 'a`nqos flower + fi`los loving.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Lit., fond of flowers; hence, feeding upon, or living among,
flowers.

ANTHOPHORE
An"tho*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The stipe when developed into an internode between calyx and
corolla, as in the Pink family. Gray.

ANTHOPHOROUS
An*thoph"o*rous, a.

Defn: Flower bearing; supporting the flower.

ANTHOPHYLLITE
An*thoph"yl*lite, n. Etym: [NL. anthophyllum clove.]

Defn: A mineral of the hornblende group, of a yellowish gray or clove
brown color.
 -- An`tho*phyl*lit"ic, a.

ANTHORISM
An"tho*rism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A description or definition contrary to that which is given by
the adverse party. [R.]

ANTHOTAXY
An"tho*tax`y, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The arrangement of flowers in a cluster; the science of the
relative position of flowers; inflorescence.

ANTHOZOA
An`tho*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The class of the Coelenterata which includes the corals and sea
anemones. The three principal groups or orders are Acyonaria,
Actinaria, and Madreporaria.

ANTHOZOAN
An`tho*zo"an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Anthozoa.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Anthozoa.

ANTHOZOIC
An"tho*zo"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Anthozoa.

ANTHRACENE
An"thra*cene, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A solid hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2H2.C6H4, which accompanies
naphthalene in the last stages of the distillation of coal tar. Its
chief use is in the artificial production of alizarin. [Written also
anthracin.]

ANTHRACENE OIL
An"thra*cene oil.

Defn: A heavy green oil (partially solidifying on cooling), which
distills over from coal tar at a temperature above 270º. It is the
principal source of anthracene.

ANTHRACIC
An*thrac"ic, a.

Defn: Of or relating to anthrax; as, anthracic blood.

ANTHRACIFEROUS
An`thra*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. -ferous.] (Min.)

Defn: Yielding anthracite; as, anthraciferous strata.

ANTHRACITE
An"thra*cite, n. Etym: [L. anthracites a kind of bloodstone; fr. Gr.
Anthrax.]

Defn: A hard, compact variety of mineral coal, of high luster,
differing from bituminous coal in containing little or no bitumen, in
consequence of which it burns with a nearly non luminous flame. The
purer specimens consist almost wholly of carbon. Also called glance
coal and blind coal.

ANTHRACITIC
An"thra*cit"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, anthracite; as, anthracitic
formations.

ANTHRACNOSE
An*thrac"nose`, n. [Gr. , , carbuncle +  disease.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of several fungus diseases, caused by parasitic species
of the series Melanconiales, attacking the bean, grape, melon,
cotton, and other plants. In the case of the grape, brown concave
spots are formed on the stem and fruit, and the disease is called
bird's-eye rot.

ANTHRACOID
An"thra*coid, a. Etym: [Anthrax + -oid.] (Biol.)

Defn: Resembling anthrax in action; of the nature of anthrax; as, an
anthracoid microbe.

ANTHRACOMANCY
An"thra*co*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by inspecting a burning coal.

ANTHRACOMETER
An`thra*com"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the amount of carbonic acid in a
mixture.

ANTHRACOMETRIC
An`thra*co*met"ric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an anthracometer.

ANTHRACONITE
An*thra"co*nite, n. Etym: [See Anthracite.] (Min.)

Defn: A coal-black marble, usually emitting a fetid smell when
rubbed; -- called also stinkstone and swinestone.

ANTHRACOSIS
An`thra*co"sis, n. [NL. See Anthrax.] (Med.)

Defn: A chronic lung disease, common among coal miners, due to the
inhalation of coal dust; -- called also collier's lung and miner's
phthisis.

ANTHRAQUINONE
An`thra*qui"none, n. Etym: [Anthracene + quinone.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2O2.C6H4, subliming in shining yellow
needles. It is obtained by oxidation of anthracene.

ANTHRAX
An"thrax, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Med.)
(a) A carbuncle.
(b) A malignant pustule.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A microscopic, bacterial organism (Bacillus anthracis),
resembling transparent rods. [See Illust. under Bacillus.]

3. An infectious disease of cattle and sheep. It is ascribed to the
presence of a rod-shaped bacterium (Bacillus anthracis), the spores
of which constitute the contagious matter. It may be transmitted to
man by inoculation. The spleen becomes greatly enlarged and filled
with bacteria. Called also splenic fever.

ANTHRAX VACCINE
An"thrax vac"cine. (Veter.)

Defn: A fluid vaccine obtained by growing a bacterium (Bacterium
anthracis) in beef broth. It is used to immunize animals, esp.
cattle.

ANTHRENUS
An*thre"nus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small beetles, several of which, in the larval
state, are very destructive to woolen goods, fur, etc. The common
"museum pest" is A. varius; the carpet beetle is A. scrophulariæ. The
larvæ are commonly confounded with moths.

ANTHROPIC; ANTHROPICAL
An*throp"ic, An*throp"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or related to man; human. [R.] Owen.

ANTHROPIDAE
An*throp"i*dæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The group that includes man only.

ANTHROPOCENTRIC
An`thro*po*cen"tric, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Assuming man as the center or ultimate end; -- applied to
theories of the universe or of any part of it, as the solar system.
Draper.

ANTHROPOGENIC
An`thro*po*gen"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anthropogeny.

ANTHROPOGENY
An`thro*pog"e*ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The science or study of human generation, or the origin and
development of man.

ANTHROPOGEOGRAPHY
An`thro*po*ge*og"ra*phy, n. [Gr.  man + geography.]

Defn: The science of the human species as to geographical
distribution and environment. Broadly, it includes industrial,
commercial, and political geography, and that part of ethnology which
deals with distribution and physical environment. --
An`thro*po*ge*og"ra*pher (#), n. -- An`thro*po*ge`o*graph"ic*al (#),
a.

ANTHROPOGLOT
An*throp"o*glot, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal which has a tongue resembling that of man, as the
parrot.

ANTHROPOGRAPHY
An`thro*pog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: That branch of anthropology which treats of the actual
distribution of the human race in its different divisions, as
distinguished by physical character, language, institutions, and
customs, in contradistinction to ethnography, which treats
historically of the origin and filiation of races and nations. P.
Cyc.

ANTHROPOID
An"thro*poid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Resembling man; -- applied especially to certain apes, as the
ourang or gorilla.
 -- n.

Defn: An anthropoid ape.

ANTHROPOIDAL
An`thro*poid"al, a.

Defn: Anthropoid.

ANTHROPOIDEA
An`thro*poid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Anthropoid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The suborder of primates which includes the monkeys, apes, and
man.

ANTHROPOLATRY
An`thro*pol"a*try, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Man worship.

ANTHROPOLITE
An*throp"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A petrifaction of the human body, or of any portion of it.

ANTHROPOLOGIC; ANTHROPOLOGICAL
An`thro*po*log"ic, An`thro*po*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to anthropology; belonging to the nature of man.
"Anthropologic wisdom." Kingsley.
 -- An`thro*po*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTHROPOLOGIST
An`thro*pol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in anthropology.

ANTHROPOLOGY
An`thro*pol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

1. The science of the structure and functions of the human body.

2. The science of man; -- sometimes used in a limited sense to mean
the study of man as an object of natural history, or as an animal.

3. That manner of expression by which the inspired writers attribute
human parts and passions to God.

ANTHROPOMANCY
An"thro*po*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by the entrails of human being.

ANTHROPOMETRIC; ANTHROPOMETRICAL
An`thro*po*met"ric, An`thro*po*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to anthropometry.

ANTHROPOMETRY
An`thro*pom"e*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -mercy.]

Defn: Measurement of the height and other dimensions of human beings,
especially at different ages, or in different races, occupations,
etc. Dunglison.

ANTHROPOMORPHA
An`thro*po*mor"pha, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Anthropomorphism.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The manlike, or anthropoid, apes.

ANTHROPOMORPHIC
An`thro*po*mor"phic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anthromorphism. Hadley.
 -- An`thro*po*mor"phic*al*ly, adv.

ANTHROPOMORPHISM
An`thro*po*mor"phism, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. The representation of the Deity, or of a polytheistic deity, under
a human form, or with human attributes and affections.

2. The ascription of human characteristics to things not human.

ANTHROPOMORPHIST
An`thro*po*mor"phist, n.

Defn: One who attributes the human form or other human attributes to
the Deity or to anything not human.

ANTHROPOMORPHITE
An`thro*po*mor"phite, n.

Defn: One who ascribes a human form or human attributes to the Deity
or to a polytheistic deity. Taylor. Specifically, one of a sect of
ancient heretics who believed that God has a human form, etc.
Tillotson.

ANTHROPOMORPHITIC
An`thro*po*mor*phit"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: to anthropomorphism. Kitto.

ANTHROPOMORPHITISM
An`thro*po*mor"phi*tism, n.

Defn: Anthropomorphism. Wordsworth.

ANTHROPOMORPHIZE
An`thro*po*mor"phize, v. t. & i.

Defn: To attribute a human form or personality to.
You may see imaginative children every day anthropomorphizing.
Lowell.

ANTHROPOMORPHOLOGY
An`thro*po*mor*phol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy. See Anthropomorphism.]

Defn: The application to God of terms descriptive of human beings.

ANTHROPOMORPHOSIS
An`thro*po*mor"pho*sis, n.

Defn: Transformation into the form of a human being.

ANTHROPOMORPHOUS
An`thro*po*mor"phous, a.

Defn: Having the figure of, or resemblance to, a man; as, an
anthromorphous plant. "Anthromorphous apes." Darwin.

ANTHROPONOMICS; ANTHROPONOMY
An`thro*po*nom"ics, An`thro*pon"o*my, n. [Gr.  man +  usage, law,
rule.]

Defn: The science of the laws of the development of the human
organism in relation to other organisms and to environment. --
An`thro*po*nom"ic*al (#), a.

ANTHROPOPATHIC; ANTHROPOPATHICAL
An`thro*po*path"ic, An`thro*po*path"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anthropopathy. [R.] --
An`thro*po*path"ic*al*ly, adv.
The daring anthropopathic imagery by which the prophets often
represent God as chiding, upbraiding, threatening. H. Rogers.

ANTHROPOPATHISM; ANTHROPOPATHY
An`thro*pop"a*thism, An`thro*pop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The ascription of human feelings or passions to God, or to a
polytheistic deity.
In its recoil from the gross anthropopathy of the vulgar notions, it
falls into the vacuum of absolute apathy. Hare.

ANTHROPOPATHITE
An`thro*pop"a*thite, n.

Defn: One who ascribes human feelings to deity.

ANTHROPOPHAGI
An`thro*poph"a*gi, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: Man eaters; cannibals. Shak.

ANTHROPOPHAGIC; ANTHROPOPHAGICAL
An`thro*po*phag"ic, An`thro*po*phag"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to cannibalism or anthropophagy.

ANTHROPOPHAGINIAN
An`thro*poph`a*gin"i*an, n.

Defn: One who east human flesh. [Ludicrous] Shak.

ANTHROPOPHAGITE
An`thro*poph"a*gite, n.

Defn: A cannibal. W. Taylor.

ANTHROPOPHAGOUS
An`thro*poph"a*gous, a.

Defn: Feeding on human flesh; cannibal.

ANTHROPOPHAGY
An`thro*poph"a*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The eating of human flesh; cannibalism.

ANTHROPOPHUISM
An"thro*poph"u*ism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Human nature. [R.] Gladstone.

ANTHROPOSCOPY
An`thro*pos"co*py, n. Etym: [Gr. -scopy.]

Defn: The art of discovering or judging of a man's character,
passions. and inclinations from a study of his visible features. [R.]

ANTHROPOSOPHY
An`thro*pos"o*phy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Knowledge of the nature of man; hence, human wisdom.

ANTHROPOTOMICAL
An`thro*po*tom"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to anthropotomy, or the dissection of human bodies.

ANTHROPOTOMIST
An`thro*pot"o*mist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in anthropotomy, or human anatomy.

ANTHROPOTOMY
An`thro*pot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The anatomy or dissection of the human body; androtomy. Owen.

ANTHYPNOTIC
Ant`hyp*not"ic.

Defn: See Antihypnotic.

ANTHYPOCHONDRIAC
Ant`hyp*o*chon"dri*ac, a. & n.

Defn: See Antihypochondriac.

ANTHYSTERIC
Ant`hys*ter"ic, a. & n.

Defn: See Antihysteric.

ANTI
An"ti. Etym: [Gr. Ante.]

Defn: A prefix meaning against, opposite or opposed to, contrary, or
in place of; -- used in composition in many English words. It is
often shortened to ant-; as, antacid, antarctic.

ANTIAE
An"ti*æ, n. pl. Etym: [L., forelock.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The two projecting feathered angles of the forehead of some
birds; the frontal points.

ANTIALBUMID
An`ti*al*bu"mid, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + -albumin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A body formed from albumin by pancreatic and gastric digestion.
It is convertible into antipeptone.

ANTIALBUMOSE
An`ti*al"bu*mose`, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: See Albumose.

ANTI-AMERICAN
An`ti-A*mer"i*can, a.

Defn: Opposed to the Americans, their aims, or interests, or to the
genius of American institutions. Marshall.

ANTIAPHRODISIAC
An`ti*aph`ro*dis"i*ac, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Antaphrodisiac.

ANTIAPOPLECTIC
An`ti*ap`o*plec"tic, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Antapoplectic.

ANTIAR
An"ti*ar, n. Etym: [Jav. antjar.]

Defn: A Virulent poison prepared in Java from the gum resin of one
species of the upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria).

ANTIARIN
An`ti*a*rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous principle obtained from antiar. Watts.

ANTIASTHMATIC
An`ti*asth*mat"ic, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Antasthmatic.

ANTIATTRITION
An`ti*at*tri"tion, n.

Defn: Anything to prevent the effects of friction, esp. a compound
lubricant for machinery, etc., often consisting of plumbago, with
some greasy material; antifriction grease.

ANTIBACCHIUS
An`ti*bac*chi"us, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Bacchius.] (Pros.)

Defn: A foot of three syllables, the first two long, and the last
short.

ANTIBACTERIAL
An`ti*bac*te"ri*al, a. (Med.)
 (a) Inimical to bacteria; -- applied esp. to serum for protection
against bacterial diseases.
 (b) Opposed to the bacterial theory of disease.

ANTIBILLOUS
An`ti*bil"lous, a.

Defn: Counteractive of bilious complaints; tending to relieve
biliousness.

ANTIBODY
An"ti*bod`y, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Any of various bodies or substances in the blood which act in
antagonism to harmful foreign bodies, as toxins or the bacteria
producing the toxins. Normal blood serum apparently contains
variousantibodies, and the introduction of toxins or of foreign cells
also results in the development of their specific antibodies.

ANTIBRACHIAL
An`ti*brach"i*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the antibrachium, or forearm.

ANTIBRACHIUM
An`ti*brach"i*um, n. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: That part of the fore limb between the brachium and the carpus;
the forearm.

ANTIBROMIC
An`ti*bro"mic, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.

Defn: An agent that destroys offensive smells; a deodorizer.

ANTIBUBONIC
An`ti*bu*bon"ic, a.

Defn: Good or used against bubonic plague; as, antibubonic serum,
obtained from immunized horses; antibubonic vaccine, a sterilized
bouillon culture of the plague bacillus; antibubonic measures.

ANTIBURGHER
An`ti*burgh"er, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who seceded from the Burghers (1747), deeming it improper
to take the Burgess oath.

ANTIC
An"tic, a. Etym: [The same word as antique; cf. It. antico ancient.
See Antique.]

1. Old; antique. (Zoöl.)

Defn: "Lords of antic fame." Phaer.

2. Odd; fantastic; fanciful; grotesque; ludicrous.
The antic postures of a merry-andrew. Addison.
The Saxons . . . worshiped many idols, barbarous in name, some
monstrous, all antic for shape. Fuller.

ANTIC
An"tic, n.

1. A buffoon or merry-andrew; one that practices odd gesticulations;
the Fool of the old play.

2. An odd imagery, device, or tracery; a fantastic figure.
Woven with antics and wild imagery. Spenser.

3. A grotesque trick; a piece of buffoonery; a caper.
And fraught with antics as the Indian bird That writhes and chatters
in her wiry cage. Wordsworth.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: A grotesque representation. [Obs.]

5. An antimask. [Obs. or R.]
Performed by knights and ladies of his court In nature of an antic.
Ford.

ANTIC
An"tic, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anticked, Antickt.]

Defn: To make appear like a buffoon. [Obs.] Shak.

ANTIC
An"tic, v. i.

Defn: To perform antics.

ANTICATARRHAL
An`ti*ca*tarrh`al, a. (Med.)

Defn: Efficacious against catarrh.
 -- n.

Defn: An anticatarrhal remedy.

ANTICATHODE
An`ti*cath"ode, n. (Phys.)

Defn: The part of a vacuum tube opposite the cathode. Upon it the
cathode rays impinge.

ANTICAUSODIC
An`ti*cau*sod"ic, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Anticausotic.

ANTICAUSOTIC
An`ti*cau*sot"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Good against an inflammatory fever.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for such a fever.

ANTICHAMBER
An"ti*cham`ber, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Antechamber.

ANTICHLOR
An"ti*chlor, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + chlorine.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any substance (but especially sodium hyposulphite) used in
removing the excess of chlorine left in paper pulp or stuffs after
bleaching.

ANTICHRIST
An"ti*christ, n. Etym: [L. Antichristus, Gr.

Defn: A denier or opponent of Christ. Specif.: A great antagonist,
person or power, expected to precede Christ's second coming.

ANTICHRISTIAN
An`ti*chris"tian, a.

Defn: Opposed to the Christian religion.

ANTICHRISTIANISM; ANTICHRISTIANITY
An`ti*chris"tian*ism, An`ti*chris*tian"i*ty, n.

Defn: Opposition or contrariety to the Christian religion.

ANTICHRISTIANLY
An`ti*chris"tian*ly, adv.

Defn: In an antichristian manner.

ANTICHRONICAL
An`ti*chron"ic*al, a.

Defn: Deviating from the proper order of time.
 -- An`ti*chron"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTICHRONISM
An*tich"ro*nism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Deviation from the true order of time; anachronism. [R.]
Selden.

ANTICHTHON
An*tich"thon, n.; pl. Antichthones. Etym: [Gr.

1. A hypothetical earth counter to ours, or on the opposite side of
the sun. Grote.

2. pl.

Defn: Inhabitants of opposite hemispheres. Whewell.

ANTICIPANT
An*tic"i*pant, a. Etym: [L. anticipans, p. pr. of anticipare.]

Defn: Anticipating; expectant; -- with of.
Wakening guilt, anticipant of hell. Southey.

ANTICIPATE
An*tic"i*pate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anticipated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anticipating.] Etym: [L. anticipatus, p. p. of anticipare to
anticipate; ante + capere to make. See Capable.]

1. To be before in doing; to do or take before another; to preclude
or prevent by prior action.
To anticipate and prevent the duke's purpose. R. Hall.
He would probably have died by the hand of the executioner, if indeed
the executioner had not been anticipated by the populace. Macaulay.

2. To take up or introduce beforehand, or before the proper or normal
time; to cause to occur earlier or prematurely; as, the advocate has
anticipated a part of his argument.

3. To foresee (a wish, command, etc.) and do beforehand that which
will be desired.

4. To foretaste or foresee; to have a previous view or impression of;
as, to anticipate the pleasures of a visit; to anticipate the evils
of life.

Syn.
 -- To prevent; obviate; preclude; forestall; expect.
 -- To Anticipate, Expect. These words, as here compared, agree in
regarding some future event as about to take place. Expect is the
stringer. It supposes some ground or reason in the mind for
considering the event as likely to happen. Anticipate is, literally,
to take beforehand, and here denotes simply to take into the mind as
conception of the future. Hence, to say, "I did not anticipate a
refusal," expresses something less definite and strong than to say, "
did not expect it." Still, anticipate is a convenient word to be
interchanged with expect in cases where the thought will allow.
Good with bad Expect to hear; supernal grace contending With
sinfulness of men. Milton.
I would not anticipate the relish of any happiness, nor feel the
weight of any misery, before it actually arrives. Spectator.
Timid men were anticipating another civil war. Macaulay.

ANTICIPATION
An*tic`i*pa"tion, n. Etym: [L. anticipatio: cf. F. anticipation.]

1. The act of anticipating, taking up, placing, or considering
something beforehand, or before the proper time in natural order.
So shall my anticipation prevent your discovery. Shak.

2. Previous view or impression of what is to happen; instinctive
prevision; foretaste; antepast; as, the anticipation of the joys of
heaven.
The happy anticipation of renewed existence in company with the
spirits of the just. Thodey.

3. Hasty notion; intuitive preconception.
Many men give themselves up to the first anticipations of their
minds. Locke.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: The commencing of one or more tones of a chord with or during
the chord preceding, forming a momentary discord.

Syn.
 -- Preoccupation; preclusion; foretaste; prelibation; antepast;
pregustation; preconception; expectation; foresight; forethought.

ANTICIPATIVE
An*tic"i*pa*tive, a.

Defn: Anticipating, or containing anticipation. "Anticipative of the
feast to come." Cary.
 -- An*tic"i*pa*tive*ly, adv.

ANTICIPATOR
An*tic"i*pa`tor, n.

Defn: One who anticipates.

ANTICIPATORY
An*tic"i*pa*to*ry, a.

Defn: Forecasting; of the nature of anticipation. Owen.
Here is an anticipatory glance of what was to be. J. C. Shairp.

ANTICIVIC
An`ti*civ"ic, n.

Defn: Opposed to citizenship.

ANTICIVISM
An`ti*civ"ism, n.

Defn: Opposition to the body politic of citizens. [Obs.] Carlyle.

ANTICLASTIC
An`ti*clas"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- = Gr.

Defn: Having to opposite curvatures, that is, curved longitudinally
in one direction and transversely in the opposite direction, as the
surface of a saddle.

ANTICLIMAX
An`ti*cli"max, n. (Rhet.)

Defn: A sentence in which the ideas fall, or become less important
and striking, at the close; -- the opposite of climax. It produces a
ridiculous effect. Example:
Next comes Dalhousie, the great god of war,
Lieutenant-colonel to the Earl ANTICLINAL
An`ti*cli"nal, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.

Defn: Inclining or dipping in opposite directions. See Synclinal.
Anticlinal line, Anticlinal axis (Geol.), a line from which strata
dip in opposite directions, as from the ridge of a roof.
 -- Anticlinal vertebra (Anat.), one of the dorsal vertebræ, which in
many animals has an upright spine toward which the spines of the
neighboring vertebræ are inclined.

ANTICLINAL
An`ti*cli"nal, n. (Geol.)

Defn: The crest or line in which strata slope or dip in opposite
directions.

ANTICLINE
An"ti*cline, n. [See Anticlinal.] (Geol.)

Defn: A structure of bedded rocks in which the beds on both sides of
an axis or axial plane dip away from the axis; an anticlinal.

ANTICLINORIUM
An`ti*cli*no"ri*um, n.; pl. Anticlinoria. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: The upward elevation of the crust of the earth, resulting from
a geanticlinal.

ANTICLY
An"tic*ly, adv.

Defn: Oddly; grotesquely.

ANTIC-MASK
An"tic-mask`, n.

Defn: An antimask. B. Jonson.

ANTICNESS
An"tic*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being antic. Ford.

ANTICOHERER
An`ti*co*her"er, n. (Wireless Teleg.)

Defn: A device, one form of which consists of a scratched deposit of
silver on glass, used in connection with the receiving apparatus for
reading wireless signals. The electric waves falling on this
contrivance increase its resistance several times. The anticoherer
can be used in conjunction with a telephone.

ANTICONSTITUTIONAL
An`ti*con`sti*tu"tion*al, a.

Defn: Opposed to the constitution; unconstitutional.

ANTICONTAGIOUS
An`ti*con*ta"gious, a. (Med.)

Defn: Opposing or destroying contagion.

ANTICONVULSIVE
An`ti*con*vul"sive, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against convulsions. J. Floyer.

ANTICOR
An"ti*cor, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + L. cor heart; cf. F. antic.]
(Far.)

Defn: A dangerous inflammatory swelling of a horse's breast, just
opposite the heart.

ANTICOUS
An*ti"cous, a. Etym: [L. anticus in front, foremost, fr. ante
before.] (Bot.)

Defn: Facing toward the axis of the flower, as in the introrse
anthers of the water lily.

ANTICYCLONE
An"ti*cy`clone, n. (Meteorol.)

Defn: A movement of the atmosphere opposite in character, as regards
direction of the wind and distribution of barometric pressure, to
that of a cyclone.
 -- An`ti*cy*clon"ic, a.
 -- An`ti*cy*clon"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTIDIPHTHERITIC
An`ti*diph`the*rit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Destructive to, or hindering the growth of, diphtheria bacilli.
-- n.

Defn: An antidiphtheritic agent.

ANTIDOTAL
An"ti*do`tal(#) a.

Defn: Having the quality an antidote; fitted to counteract the
effects of poison. Sir T. Browne.
 -- An"ti*do`tal*ly, adv.

ANTIDOTARY
An"ti*do`ta*ry, a.

Defn: Antidotal.
 -- n. Antidote; also, a book of antidotes.

ANTIDOTE
An"ti*dote, n. Etym: [L. antidotum, Gr. antidote. See Dose, n.]

1. A remedy to counteract the effects of poison, or of anything
noxious taken into the stomach; -- used with against, for, or to; as,
an antidote against, for, or to, poison.

2. Whatever tends to prevent mischievous effects, or to counteract
evil which something else might produce.

ANTIDOTE
An"ti*dote, v. t.

1. To counteract or prevent the effects of, by giving or taking an
antidote.
Nor could Alexander himself . . . antidote . . . the poisonous
draught, when it had once got into his veins. South.

2. To fortify or preserve by an antidote.

ANTIDOTICAL
An`ti*dot"ic*al, a.

Defn: Serving as an antidote.
 -- An`ti*dot"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTIDROMOUS
An*tid"ro*mous, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Changing the direction in the spiral sequence of leaves on a
stem.

ANTIDYSENTERIC
An`ti*dys`en*ter"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against dysentery.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for dysentery.

ANTIEMETIC
An`ti*e*met"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Antemetic.

ANTIEPHIALTIC
An`ti*eph`i*al"tic, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Antephialtic.

ANTIEPILEPTIC
An`ti*ep`i*lep"tic, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Antepileptic.

ANTIFEBRILE
An`ti*fe"brile, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: Febrifuge.

ANTIFEBRINE
An`ti*feb"rine, n. (Med.)

Defn: Acetanilide.

ANTI-FEDERALIST
An`ti-fed"er*al*ist, n.

Defn: One of party opposed to a federative government; -- applied
particularly to the party which opposed the adoption of the
constitution of the United States. Pickering.

ANTIFRICTION
An`ti*fric"tion, n.

Defn: Something to lessea. Tending to lessen friction.

ANTIGALASTIC
An`ti*ga*las"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.

Defn: Causing a diminution or a suppression of the secretion of milk.

ANTI-GALLICAN
An`ti-Gal"li*can, a.

Defn: Opposed to what is Gallic or French.

ANTIGRAPH
An"ti*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. antigraphe.]

Defn: A copy or transcript.

ANTIGUGGLER
An`ti*gug"gler n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + guggle or gurgle.]

Defn: A crooked tube of metal, to be introduced into the neck of a
bottle for drawing out the liquid without disturbing the sediment or
causing a gurgling noise.

ANTIHELIX
An`ti*he"lix, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The curved elevation of the cartilage of the ear, within or in
front of the helix. See Ear.

ANTIHEMORRHAGIC
An`ti*hem`or*rhag"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Tending to stop hemorrhage.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for hemorrhage.

ANTIHYDROPHOBIC
An`ti*hy`dro*phob"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Counteracting or preventing hydrophobia.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for hydrophobia.

ANTIHYDROPIC
An`ti*hy*drop"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against dropsy.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for dropsy.

ANTIHYPNOTIC
An`ti*hyp*not"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Tending to prevent sleep.
 -- n.

Defn: An antihypnotic agent.

ANTIHYPOCHONDRIAC
An`ti*hyp`o*chon"dri*ac, a. (Med.)

Defn: Counteractive of hypochondria.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for hypochondria.

ANTIHYSTERIC
An`ti*hys*ter"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Counteracting hysteria.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for hysteria.

ANTIICTERIC
An`ti*ic*ter"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against jaundice.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for jaundice.

ANTI-IMPERIALISM
An`ti-im*pe"ri*al*ism, n.

Defn: Opposition to imperialism; -- applied specif., in the United
States, after the Spanish-American war (1898), to the attitude or
principles of those opposing territorial expansion; in England, of
those, often called Little Englanders, opposing the extension of the
empire and the closer relation of its parts, esp. in matters of
commerce and imperial defense. -- An`ti-im*pe"ri*al*ist, n. -- An`ti-
im*pe`ri*al*is"tic (#), a.

ANTILEGOMENA
An`ti*le*gom"e*na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Eccl.)

Defn: Certain books of the New Testament which were for a time not
universally received, but which are now considered canonical. These
are the Epistle to the Hebrews, the Epistles of James and Jude, the
second Epistle of Peter, the second and third Epistles of John, and
the Revelation. The undisputed books are called the Homologoumena.

ANTILIBRATION
An`ti*li*bra"tion, n.

Defn: A balancing; equipoise. [R.] De Quincey.

ANTILITHIC
An`ti*lith"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Tending to prevent the formation of urinary calculi, or to
destroy them when formed.
 -- n.

Defn: An antilithic medicine.

ANTILOGARITHM
An`ti*log"a*rithm, n. (Math.)

Defn: The number corresponding to a logarithm. The word has been
sometimes, though rarely, used to denote the complement of a given
logarithm; also the logarithmic cosine corresponding to a given
logarithmic sine.
 -- An`ti*log`a*rith"mic, a.

ANTILOGOUS
An*til"o*gous, a.

Defn: Of the contrary name or character; -- opposed to analogous.
Antilogous pole (Eccl.), that pole of a crystal which becomes
negatively electrified when heated.

ANTILOGY
An*til"o*gy, n.; pl. Antilogies. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A contradiction between any words or passages in an author. Sir
W. Hamilton.

ANTILOIMIC
An`ti*loi"mic, n. (Med.)

Defn: A remedy against the plague. Brande & C.

ANTILOPINE
An*til"o*pine, a.

Defn: Of or relating to the antelope.

ANTILOQUIST
An*til"o*quist, n.

Defn: A contradicter. [Obs.]

ANTILOQUY
An*til"o*quy, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + L. loqui to speak.]

Defn: Contradiction. [Obs.]

ANTILYSSIC
An`ti*lys"sic, a. & n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Antihydrophobic.

ANTIMACASSAR
An`ti*ma*cas"sar, n.

Defn: A cover for the back or arms of a chair or sofa, etc., to
prevent them from being soiled by macassar or other oil from the
hair.

ANTIMAGISTRICAL
An`ti*ma*gis"tric*al, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + magistrical for
magistratical.]

Defn: Opposed to the office or authority of magistrates. [Obs.]
South.

ANTIMALARIAL
An`ti*ma*la"ri*al, a.

Defn: Good against malaria.

ANTIMASK
An"ti*mask`, n.

Defn: A secondary mask, or grotesque interlude, between the parts of
a serious mask. [Written also anue.] Bacon.

ANTIMASON
An`ti*ma"son, n.

Defn: One opposed to Freemasonry.
 -- An`ti*ma*son"ic, a.

ANTIMASONRY
An`ti*ma"son*ry, n.

Defn: Opposition to Freemasonry.

ANTIMEPHITIC
An`ti*me*phit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against mephitic or deletplwious gases.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy against mephitic gases. Dunglison.

ANTIMERE
An"ti*mere, n. Etym: [. anti- + -mere.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of the two halves of bilaterally symmetrical animals; one
of any opposite symmetrical or homotypic parts in animals and plants.

ANTIMETABOLE
An`ti*me*tab"o*le, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure in which the same words or ideas are repeated in
transposed order.

ANTIMETATHESIS
An`ti*me*tath"e*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: An antithesis in which the members are repeated in inverse
order.

ANTIMETER
An*tim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A modification of the quadrant, for measuring small angles.
[Obs.]

ANTIMONARCHIC; ANTIMONARCHICAL
An`ti*mo*nar"chic, An`ti*mo*nar"chic*al,

Defn: Opposed to monarchial government. Bp. Benson. Addison.

ANTIMONARCHIST
An`ti*mon"arch*ist, n.

Defn: An enemy to monarchial government.

ANTIMONATE
An`ti*mo"nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of antimonic acid with a base or basic radical.
[Written also antimoniate.]

ANTIMONIAL
An`ti*mo"ni*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to antimony.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: A preparation or medicine containing antimony. Antimonial
powder, a consisting of one part oxide of antimony and two parts
phosphate of calcium; -- also called James's powder.

ANTIMONIATED
An`ti*mo"ni*a`ted, a.

Defn: Combined or prepared with antimony; as, antimoniated tartar.

ANTIMONIC
An`ti*mon"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of those
compounds of antimony in which this element has its highest
equivalence; as, antimonic acid.

ANTIMONIOUS
An`ti*mo"ni*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of those
compounds of antimony in which this element has an equivalence next
lower than the highest; as, antimonious acid.

ANTIMONITE
An"ti*mo*nite`, n.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of antimonious acid and a base or basic radical.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Stibnite.

ANTIMONIURETED
An`ti*mo"ni*u*ret`ed, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined with or containing antimony; as, antimoniureted
hydrogen. [Written also antimoniuretted.]

ANTIMONSOON
An"ti*mon*soon", n. (Meteor.)

Defn: The upper, contrary-moving current of the atmosphere over a
monsoon.

ANTIMONY
An"ti*mo*ny, n. Etym: [LL. antimonium, of unknown origin.] (Chem.)

Defn: An elementary substance, resembling a metal in its appearance
and physical properties, but in its chemical relations belonging to
the class of nonmetallic substances. Atomic weight, 120. Symbol, Sb.

Note: It is of tin-white color, brittle, laminated or crystalline,
fusible, and vaporizable at a rather low temperature. It is used in
some metallic alloys, as type metal and bell metal, and also for
medical preparations, which are in general emetics or cathartics. By
ancient writers, and some moderns, the term is applied to native gray
ore of antimony, or stibnite (the stibium of the Romans, and the
Cervantite, senarmontite, and valentinite are native oxides of
antimony.

ANTINATIONAL
An`ti*na"tion*al, a.

Defn: Antagonistic to one's country or nation, or to a national
government.

ANTINEPHRITIC
An`ti*ne*phrit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Counteracting, or deemed of use in, diseases of the kidneys.
 -- n.

Defn: An antinephritic remedy.

ANTINOMIAN
An`ti*no"mi*an, a. Etym: [See Antimony.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Antinomians; opposed to the doctrine
that the moral law is obligatory.

ANTINOMIAN
An`ti*no"mi*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who maintains that, under the gospel dispensation, the
moral law is of no use or obligation, but that faith alone is
necessary to salvation. The sect of Antinomians originated with John
Agricola, in Germany, about the year 1535. Mosheim.

ANTINOMIANISM
An`ti*no"mi*an*ism, n.

Defn: The tenets or practice of Antinomians. South.

ANTINOMIST
An*tin"o*mist, n.

Defn: An Antinomian. [R.] Bp. Sanderson.

ANTINOMY
An*tin"o*my, n.; pl. Antinomies. Etym: [L. antinomia, Gr.

1. Opposition of one law or rule to another law or rule.
Different commentators have deduced from it the very opposite
doctrines. In some instances this apparent antinomy is doubtful. De
Quincey.

2. An opposing law or rule of any kind.
As it were by his own antinomy, or counterstatute. Milton.

3. (Metaph.)

Defn: A contradiction or incompatibility of thought or language; --
in the Kantian philosophy, such a contradiction as arises from the
attempt to apply to the ideas of the reason, relations or attributes
which are appropriate only to the facts or the concepts of
experience.

ANTIOCHIAN
An`ti*o"chi*an, a.

1. Pertaining to Antiochus, a contemporary with Cicero, and the
founder of a sect of philosophers.

2. Of or pertaining to the city of Antioch, in Syria. Antiochian
epoch (Chron.), a method of computing time, from the proclamation of
liberty granted to the city of Antioch, about the time of the battle
of Pharsalia, B.C. 48.

ANTIODONTALGIC
An`ti*o`don*tal"gic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Efficacious in curing toothache.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for toothache.

ANTIORGASTIC
An`ti*or*gas"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Tending to allay venereal excitement or desire; sedative.

ANTIPAPAL
An`ti*pa"pal, a.

Defn: Opposed to the pope or to popery. Milton.

ANTIPARALLEL
An`ti*par"al*lel, a.

Defn: Running in a contrary direction. Hammond.

ANTIPARALLELS
An`ti*par"al*lels, n. pl. (Geom.)

Defn: Straight lines or planes which make angles in some respect
opposite in character to those made by parallel lines or planes.

ANTIPARALYTIC
An`ti*par`a*lyt"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against paralysis.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for paralysis.

ANTIPARALYTICAL
An`ti*par`a*lyt"ic*al, a.

Defn: Antiparalytic.

ANTIPASCH
An"ti*pasch, n. [Pref. anti-+ pasch.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The Sunday after Easter; Low Sunday.

ANTIPATHETIC; ANTIPATHETICAL
An`ti*pa*thet"ic, An`ti*pa*thet"ic*al, a.

Defn: Having a natural contrariety, or constitutional aversion, to a
thing; characterized by antipathy; -- often followed by to. Fuller.

ANTIPATHIC
An`ti*path"ic, a. Etym: [NL. antipathicus, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Belonging to antipathy; opposite; contrary; allopathic.

ANTIPATHIST
An*tip"a*thist, n.

Defn: One who has an antipathy. [R.] "Antipathist of light."
Coleridge.

ANTIPATHIZE
An*tip"a*thize, v. i.

Defn: To feel or show antipathy. [R.]

ANTIPATHOUS
An*tip"a*thous, a.

Defn: Having a natural contrariety; adverse; antipathetic. [Obs.]
Beau. & Fl.

ANTIPATHY
An*tip"a*thy, n.; pl. Antipathies. Etym: [L. antipathia, Gr.
antipathie. See Pathos.]

1. Contrariety or opposition in feeling; settled aversion or dislike;
repugnance; distaste.
Inveterate antipathies against particular nations, and passionate
attachments to others, are to be avoided. Washington.

2. Natural contrariety; incompatibility; repugnancy of qualities; as,
oil and water have antipathy.
A habit is generated of thinking that a natural antipathy exists
between hope and reason. I. Taylor.

Note: Any is opposed to sympathy. It is followed by to, against, or
between; also sometimes by for.

Syn.
 -- Hatred; aversion; dislike; disgust; distaste; enmity; ill will;
repugnance; contrariety; opposition. See Dislike.

ANTIPEPTONE
An`ti*pep"tone, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A product of gastric and pancreatic digestion, differing from
hemipeptone in not being decomposed by the continued action of
pancreatic juice.

ANTIPERIODIC
An`ti*pe`ri*od"ic, n. (Med.)

Defn: A remedy possessing the property of preventing the return of
periodic paroxysms, or exacerbations, of disease, as in intermittent
fevers.

ANTIPERISTALTIC
An`ti*per`i*stal"tic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Opposed to, or checking motion; acting upward; -- applied to an
inverted action of the intestinal tube.

ANTIPERISTASIS
An`ti*pe*ris"ta*sis, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Opposition by which the quality opposed asquires strength;
resistance or reaction roused by opposition or by the action of an
opposite principle or quality.

ANTIPERISTATIC
An`ti*per`i*stat"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to antiperistasis.

ANTIPETALOUS
An`ti*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + petal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Standing before a petal, as a stamen.

ANTIPHARMIC
An`ti*phar"mic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Antidotal; alexipharmic.

ANTIPHLOGISTIAN
An`ti*phlo*gis"tian, n.

Defn: An opposer of the theory of phlogiston.

ANTIPHLOGISTIC
An`ti*phlo*gis"tic, a.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: Opposed to the doctrine of phlogiston.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Counteracting inflammation.

ANTIPHLOGISTIC
An`ti*phlo*gis"tic, n. (Med.)

Defn: Any medicine or diet which tends to check inflammation. Coxe.

ANTIPHON
An"ti*phon, n. Etym: [LL. antiphona, fr. Gr. Anthem.]

1. A musical response; alternate singing or chanting. See Antiphony,
and Antiphone.

2. A verse said before and after the psalms. Shipley.

ANTIPHONAL
An*tiph"o*nal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to antiphony, or alternate singing; sung
alternately by a divided choir or opposite choirs. Wheatly.
 -- An*tiph"o*nal*ly, adv.

ANTIPHONAL
An*tiph"o*nal, n.

Defn: A book of antiphons or anthems.

ANTIPHONARY
An*tiph"o*na*ry, n. Etym: [LL. antiphonarium. See Antiphoner.]

Defn: A book containing a collection of antiphons; the book in which
the antiphons of the breviary, with their musical notes, are
contained.

ANTIPHONE
An"ti*phone, n. (Mus.)

Defn: The response which one side of the choir makes to the other in
a chant; alternate chanting or signing.

ANTIPHONER
An*tiph"o*ner, n. Etym: [F. antiphonaire. See Antiphon.]

Defn: A book of antiphons. Chaucer.

ANTIPHONIC
An`ti*phon"ic, a.

Defn: Antiphonal.

ANTIPHONY
An*tiph"o*ny, n.; pl. Antiphonies. Etym: [See Antiphon.]

1. A musical response; also, antiphonal chanting or signing.

2. An anthem or psalm sung alternately by a choir or congregation
divided into two parts. Also figuratively.
O! never more for me shall winds intone, With all your tops, a vast
antiphony. R. Browning.

ANTIPHRASIS
An*tiph"ra*sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: The use of words in a sense opposite to their proper meaning;
as when a court of justice is called a court of vengeance.

ANTIPHRASTIC; ANTIPHRASTICAL
An`ti*phras"tic, An`ti*phras"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to antiphrasis.
 -- An`ti*phras"tic*al*ly, adv.

ANTIPHTHISIC
An`ti*phthis"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Relieving or curing phthisis, or consumption.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for phthisis.

ANTIPHYSICAL
An`ti*phys"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + physical.]

Defn: Contrary to nature; unnatural.

ANTIPHYSICAL
An`ti*phys"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Relieving flatulence; carminative.

ANTIPLASTIC
An`ti*plas"tic, a.

1. Diminishing plasticity.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Preventing or checking the process of healing, or granulation.

ANTIPODAGRIC
An`ti*po*dag"ric, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against gout.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for gout.

ANTIPODAL
An*tip"o*dal, a.

1. Pertaining to the antipodes; situated on the opposite side of the
globe.

2. Diametrically opposite. His antipodal shadow." Lowell.

ANTIPODE
An"ti*pode, n.

Defn: One of the antipodes; anything exactly opposite.
In tale or history your beggar is ever the just antipode to your
king. Lamb.

Note: The singular, antipode, is exceptional in formation, but has
been used by good writers. Its regular English plural would be
ân"tî*podes, the last syllable rhyming with abodes, and this
pronunciation is sometimes heard. The plural form (originally a Latin
word without a singular) is in common use, and is pronounced, after
the English method of Latin, ân*tîp"o*dez.

ANTIPODEAN
An`ti*po"de*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the antipodes, or the opposite side of the world;
antipodal.

ANTIPODES
An*tip"o*des, n. Etym: [L. pl., fr. Gr.

1. Those who live on the side of the globe diametrically opposite.

2. The country of those who live on the opposite side of the globe.
Latham.

3. Anything exactly opposite or contrary.
Can there be a greater contrariety unto Christ's judgment, a more
perfect antipodes to all that hath hitherto been gospel Hammond.

ANTIPOLE
An"ti*pole, n.

Defn: The opposite pole; anything diametrically opposed. Geo. Eliot.

ANTIPOPE
An"ti*pope, n.

Defn: One who is elected, or claims to be, pope in opposition to the
pope canonically chosen; esp. applied to those popes who resided at
Avignon during the Great Schism.

ANTIPSORIC
An`tip*sor"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of use in curing the itch.
 -- n.

Defn: An antipsoric remedy.

ANTIPTOSIS
An`tip*to"sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: The putting of one case for another.

ANTIPUTREFACTIVE; ANTIPUTRESCENT
An`ti*pu`tre*fac"tive, An`ti*pu*tres"cent, a.

Defn: Counteracting, or preserving from, putrefaction; antiseptic.

ANTIPYIC
An`ti*py"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Checking or preventing suppuration.
 -- n.

Defn: An antipyic medicine.

ANTIPYRESIS
An`ti*py*re"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The condition or state of being free from fever.

ANTIPYRETIC
An`ti*py*ret"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Efficacious in preventing or allaying fever.
 -- n.

Defn: A febrifuge.

ANTIPYRINE
An`ti*py"rine, n. (Med.)

Defn: An artificial alkaloid, believed to be efficient in abating
fever.

ANTIPYROTIC
An`ti*py*rot"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against burns or pyrosis.
 -- n.

Defn: Anything of use in preventing or healing burns or pyrosis.

ANTIQUARIAN
An`ti*qua"ri*an, a. Etym: [See Antiquary].

Defn: Pertaining to antiquaries, or to antiquity; as, antiquarian
literature.

ANTIQUARIAN
An`ti*qua"ri*an, n.

1. An antiquary.

2. A drawing paper of large size. See under Paper, n.

ANTIQUARIANISM
An`ti*qua"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: Character of an antiquary; study or love of antiquities.
Warburton.

ANTIQUARIANIZE
An`ti*qua"ri*an*ize, v. i.

Defn: To act the part of an antiquary. [Colloq.]

ANTIQUARY
An"ti*qua*ry, a. Etym: [L. antiquarius, fr. antiquus ancient. See
Antique.]

Defn: Pertaining to antiquity. [R.] "Instructed by the antiquary
times." Shak.

ANTIQUARY
An"ti*qua*ry, n.; pl. Antiquaries.

Defn: One devoted to the study of ancient times through their relics,
as inscriptions, monuments, remains of ancient habitations, statues,
coins, manuscripts, etc.; one who searches for and studies the relics
of antiquity.

ANTIQUATE
An"ti*quate, v. t. Etym: [L. antiquatus, p. p. of antiquare, fr.
antiquus ancient.]

Defn: To make old, or obsolete; to make antique; to make old in such
a degree as to put out of use; hence, to make void, or abrogate.
Christianity might reasonably introduce new laws, and antiquate or
abrogate old one. Sir M. Hale.

ANTIQUATED
An"ti*qua`ted, a.

Defn: Grown old. Hence: Bygone; obsolete; out of use; old-fashioned;
as, an antiquated law. "Antiquated words." Dryden.
Old Janet, for so he understood his antiquated attendant was
denominated. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- Ancient; old; antique; obsolete. See Ancient.

ANTIQUATEDNESS
An"ti*qua`ted*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being antiquated.

ANTIQUATENESS
An"ti*quate*ness, n.

Defn: Antiquatedness. [Obs.]

ANTIQUATION
An`ti*qua"tion, n. Etym: [L. antiquatio, fr. antiquare.]

Defn: The act of making antiquated, or the state of being antiquated.
Beaumont.

ANTIQUE
An*tique", a. Etym: [F., fr. L. antiquus old, ancient, equiv. to
anticus, from ante before. Cf. Antic.]

1. Old; ancient; of genuine antiquity; as, an antique statue. In this
sense it usually refers to the flourishing ages of Greece and Rome.
For the antique world excess and pride did hate. Spenser.

2. Old, as respects the present age, or a modern period of time; of
old fashion; antiquated; as, an antique robe. "Antique words."
Spenser.

3. Made in imitation of antiquity; as, the antique style of Thomson's
"Castle of Indolence."

4. Odd; fantastic. [In this sense, written antic.]

Syn.
 -- Ancient; antiquated; obsolete; antic; old-fashioned; old. See
Ancient.

ANTIQUE
An*tique", n. Etym: [F. See Antique, a. ]

Defn: In general, anything very old; but in a more limited sense, a
relic or object of ancient art; collectively, the antique, the
remains of ancient art, as busts, statues, paintings, and vases.
Misshapen monuments and maimed antiques. Byron.

ANTIQUELY
An*tique"ly, adv.

Defn: In an antique manner.

ANTIQUENESS
An*tique"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being antique; an appearance of ancient origin
and workmanship.
We may discover something venerable in the antiqueness of the work.
Addison.

ANTIQUIST
An"ti*quist, n.

Defn: An antiquary; a collector of antiques. [R.] Pinkerton.

ANTIQUITARIAN
An*tiq`ui*ta"ri*an, n.

Defn: An admirer of antiquity.

Note: [Used by Milton in a disparaging sense.] [Obs.]

ANTIQUITY
An*tiq"ui*ty, n.; pl. Antiquities. Etym: [L. antiquitas, fr.
antiquus: cf. F. antiquité. See Antique.]

1. The quality of being ancient; ancientness; great age; as, a statue
of remarkable antiquity; a family of great antiquity.

2. Old age. [Obs.]
It not your voice broken . . . and every part about you blasted with
antiquity Shak.

3. Ancient times; former ages; times long since past; as, Cicero was
an eloquent orator of antiquity.

4. The ancients; the people of ancient times.
That such pillars were raised by Seth all antiquity has Sir W.
Raleigh.

5. An old gentleman. [Obs.]
You are a shrewd antiquity, neighbor Clench. B. Jonson.

6. A relic or monument of ancient times; as, a coin, a statue, etc. ;
an ancient institution.

Note: [In this sense, usually in the plural.] "Heathen antiquities."
Bacon.

ANTIRACHITIC
An`ti*ra*chit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against the rickets.

ANTIRENTER
An`ti*rent"er, n.

Defn: One opposed to the payment of rent; esp. one of those who in
1840-47 resisted the collection of rents claimed by the patroons from
the settlers on certain manorial lands in the State of New York.
 -- An`ti*rent"ism, n.

ANTISABBATARIAN
An`ti*sab`ba*ta"ri*an, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: One of a sect which opposes the observance of the Christian
Sabbath.

ANTISACERDOTAL
An`ti*sac`er*do"tal, a.

Defn: Hostile to priests or the priesthood. Waterland.

ANTISCIANS; ANTISCII
An*tis"cians, An*tis"ci*i, n. pl. Etym: [L. antiscii, Gr.

Defn: The inhabitants of the earth, living on different sides of the
equator, whose shadows at noon are cast in opposite directions.
The inhabitants of the north and south temperate zones are always
Antiscians. Brande & C.

ANTISCOLETIC; ANTISCOLIC
An`ti*sco*let"ic, An`ti*scol"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Anthelmintic.

ANTISCORBUTIC
An`ti*scor*bu"tic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Counteracting scurvy.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for scurvy.

ANTISCORBUTICAL
An`ti*scor*bu"tic*al, a. (Med.)

Defn: Antiscorbutic.

ANTISCRIPTURAL
An`ti*scrip"tur*al, a.

Defn: Opposed to, or not in accordance with, the Holy Scriptures.

ANTI-SEMITISM
An`ti-Sem"i*tism, n.

Defn: Opposition to, or hatred of, Semites, esp. Jews. -- An`ti-
Sem"ite (#), n. -- An`ti-Sem*it"ic (#), a.

ANTISEPALOUS
An`ti*sep"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + sepal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Standing before a sepal, or calyx leaf.

ANTISEPSIS
An`ti*sep"sis, n. [NL. See Anti-; Sepsis.]

Defn: Prevention of sepsis by excluding or destroying microorganisms.

ANTISEPTIC; ANTISEPTICAL
An`ti*sep"tic, An`ti*sep"tic*al, a.

Defn: Counteracting or preventing putrefaction, or a putrescent
tendency in the system; antiputrefactive. Antiseptic surgery, that
system of surgical practice which insists upon a systematic use of
antiseptics in the performance of operations and the dressing of
wounds.

ANTISEPTIC
An`ti*sep"tic, n.

Defn: A substance which prevents or retards putrefaction, or
destroys, or protects from, putrefactive organisms; as, salt,
carbolic acid, alcohol, cinchona.

ANTISEPTICALLY
An`ti*sep"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By means of antiseptics.

ANTISIALAGOGUE
An`ti*si*al"a*gogue, a. (Med.)

Defn: Checking the flow of saliva.

ANTISIALAGOGUE
An`ti*si*al"a*gogue, n.

Defn: A remedy against excessive salivation.

ANTISLAVERY
An`ti*slav"er*y, a.

Defn: Opposed to slavery.
 -- n.

Defn: Opposition to slavery.

ANTISOCIAL
An`ti*so"cial, a.

Defn: Tending to interrupt or destroy social intercourse; averse to
society, or hostile to its existence; as, antisocial principles.

ANTISOCIALIST
An`ti*so"cial*ist, n.

Defn: One opposed to the doctrines and practices of socialists or
socialism.

ANTISOLAR
An`ti*so"lar, a.

Defn: Opposite to the sun; -- said of the point in the heavens 180º
distant from the sun.

ANTISPASMODIC
An`ti*spas*mod"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against spasms.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine which prevents or allays spasms or convulsions.

ANTISPAST
An"ti*spast, n. Etym: [L. antispastus, Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: A foot of four syllables, the first and fourth short, and the
second and third long.

ANTISPASTIC
An`ti*spas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. Antispast.] (Med.)
(a) Believed to cause a revulsion of fluids or of humors from one
part to another. [Obs.]
(b) Counteracting spasms; antispasmodic.
 -- n.

Defn: An antispastic agent.

ANTISPLENETIC
An`ti*splen"e*tic (Splenetic, 277), a.

Defn: Good as a remedy against disease of the spleen.
 -- n.

Defn: An antisplenetic medicine.

ANTISTROPHE
An*tis"tro*phe, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Strophe.]

1. In Greek choruses and dances, the returning of the chorus, exactly
answering to a previous strophe or movement from right to left.
Hence: The lines of this part of the choral song.
It was customary, on some occasions, to dance round the altars whilst
they sang the sacred hymns, which consisted of three stanzas or
parts; the first of which, called strophe, was sung in turning from
east to west; the other, named antistrophe, in returning from west to
east; then they stood before the altar, and sang the epode, which was
the last part of the song. Abp. Potter.

2. (Rhet.)
(a) The repetition of words in an inverse order; as, the master of
the servant and the servant of the master.
(b) The retort or turning of an adversary's plea against him.

ANTISTROPHIC
An`ti*stroph"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an antistrophe.

ANTISTROPHON
An*tis"tro*phon, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: An argument retorted on an opponent. Milton.

ANTISTRUMATIC
An`ti*stru"mat"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Antistrumous.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for scrofula.

ANTISTRUMOUS
An`ti*stru"mous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against scrofulous disorders. Johnson. Wiseman.

ANTISYPHILITIC
An`ti*syph`i*lit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Efficacious against syphilis.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for syphilis.

ANTITHEISM
An`ti*the"ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine of antitheists.
 -- An`ti*the*is"tic, a.

ANTITHEIST
An`ti*the"ist, n.

Defn: A disbeliever in the existence of God.

ANTITHESIS
An*tith"e*sis, n.; pl. Antitheses. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Thesis.]

1. (Rhet.)

Defn: An opposition or contrast of words or sentiments occurring in
the same sentence; as, "The prodigal robs his heir; the miser robs
himself." "He had covertly shot at Cromwell; he how openly aimed at
the Queen."

2. The second of two clauses forming an antithesis.

3. Opposition; contrast.

ANTITHET
An"ti*thet, n. Etym: [L. antitheton, fr. Gr.

Defn: An antithetic or contrasted statement. Bacon.

ANTITHETIC; ANTITHETICAL
An`ti*thet"ic, An`ti*thet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to antithesis, or opposition of words and
sentiments; containing, or of the nature of, antithesis; contrasted.

ANTITHETICALLY
An`ti*thet"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By way antithesis.

ANTITOXIN; ANTITOXINE
An`ti*tox"in, An`ti*tox"ine, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + toxin.]

Defn: A substance (sometimes the product of a specific micro-organism
and sometimes naturally present in the blood or tissues of an
animal), capable of producing immunity from certain diseases, or of
counteracting the poisonous effects of pathogenic bacteria.

ANTI-TRADE
An"ti-trade`, n.

Defn: A tropical wind blowing steadily in a direction opposite to the
trade wind.

ANTITRAGUS
An*tit"ra*gus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A prominence on the lower posterior portion of the concha of
the external ear, opposite the tragus. See Ear.

ANTITROCHANTER
An`ti*tro*chan"ter, n. (Anat.)

Defn: An articular surface on the ilium of birds against which the
great trochanter of the femur plays.

ANTITROPAL; ANTITROPOUS
An*tit"ro*pal, An*tit"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: At the extremity most remote from the hilum, as the embryo, or
inverted with respect to the seed, as the radicle. Lindley.

ANTITYPAL
An"ti*ty`pal, a.

Defn: Antitypical. [R.]

ANTITYPE
An"ti*type, n. Etym: [Gr. Type.]

Defn: That of which the type pattern or representation; that which is
represented by the type or symbol.

ANTITYPICAL
An`ti*typ"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an antitype; explaining the type.
 -- An`ti*typ"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTITYPOUS
An*tit"y*pous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Resisting blows; hard. [Obs.] Cudworth.

ANTITYPY
An*tit"y*py, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Opposition or resistance of matter to force. [R.] Sir W.
Hamilton.

ANTIVACCINATION
An`ti*vac`ci*na"tion, n.

Defn: Opposition to vaccination. London Times.

ANTIVACCINATIONIST
An`ti*vac`ci*na"tion*ist, n.

Defn: An antivaccinist.

ANTIVACCINIST
An`ti*vac"ci*nist, n.

Defn: One opposed to vaccination.

ANTIVARIOLOUS
An`ti*va*ri"o*lous, a.

Defn: Preventing the contagion of smallpox.

ANTIVENEREAL
An`ti*ve*ne"re*al, a.

Defn: Good against venereal poison; antisyphilitic.

ANTIVENIN
An`ti*ve"nin, n. [Written also antivenen, antivenine.] [Pref. anti- +
L. venenum poison.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The serum of blood rendered antitoxic to a venom by repeated
injections of small doses of the venom.

ANTIVIVISECTION
An`ti*viv`i*sec"tion, n.

Defn: Opposition to vivisection.

ANTIVIVISECTIONIST
An`ti*viv`i*sec"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One opposed to vivisection

ANTIZYMIC
An`ti*zym"ic, a.

Defn: Preventing fermentation.

ANTIZYMOTIC
An`ti*zy*mot"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Preventing fermentation or decomposition.
 -- n.

Defn: An agent so used.

ANTLER
Ant"ler, n. Etym: [OE. auntelere, OF. antoillier, andoiller,
endouiller, fr. F. andouiller, fr. an assumed LL. antocularis, fr. L.
ante before + oculus eye. See Ocular.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The entire horn, or any branch of the horn, of a cervine
animal, as of a stag.
Huge stags with sixteen antlers. Macaulay.

Note: The branch next to the head is called the brow antler, and the
branch next above, the bez antler, or bay antler. The main stem is
the beam, and the branches are often called tynes. Antlers are
deciduous bony (not horny) growths, and are covered with a periosteum
while growing. See Velvet. Antler moth (Zoöl.), a destructive
European moth (Cerapteryx graminis), which devastates grass lands.

ANTLERED
Ant"lered, a.

Defn: Furnished with antlers.
The antlered stag. Cowper.

ANTLIA
Ant"li*a, n.; pl. Antilæ. Etym: [L., a pump, Gr, (Zoöl.)

Defn: The spiral tubular proboscis of lepidopterous insects. See
Lepidoptera.

ANT-LION
Ant"-li`on, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A neuropterous insect, the larva of which makes in the sand a
pitfall to capture ants, etc. The common American species is
Myrmeleon obsoletus, the European is M. formicarius.

ANTOECI; ANTOECIANS
An*toe"ci, An*toe"*cians, n. pl. Etym: [NL. antoeci, fr. Gr. pl.

Defn: Those who live under the same meridian, but on opposite
parallels of latitude, north and south of the equator.

ANTONOMASIA
An`to*no*ma"si*a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: The use of some epithet or the name of some office, dignity, or
the like, instead of the proper name of the person; as when his
majesty is used for a king, or when, instead of Aristotle, we say,
the philosopher; or, conversely, the use of a proper name instead of
an appellative, as when a wise man is called a Solomon, or an eminent
orator a Cicero.

ANTONOMASTIC
An`to*no*mas"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, antonomasia.
 -- An`to*no*mas"tic*al*ly, adv.

ANTONOMASY
An*ton"o*ma*sy, n.

Defn: Antonomasia.

ANTONYM
An"to*nym, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A word of opposite meaning; a counterterm; -- used as a
correlative of synonym. [R.] C. J. Smith.

ANTORBITAL
Ant*or"bit*al, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + orbital.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or situated in, the region of the front of the
orbit.
 -- n.

Defn: The antorbital bone.

ANTORGASTIC
Ant`or*gas"tic, a.

Defn: See Antiorgastic.

ANTOZONE
Ant*o"zone, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + ozone.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound formerly supposed to be modification of oxygen, but
now known to be hydrogen dioxide; -- so called because apparently
antagonistic to ozone, converting it into ordinary oxygen.

ANTRAL
An"tral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Relating to an antrum.

ANTRE
An"tre, n. Etym: [F. antre, L. antrum, fr. Gr.

Defn: A cavern. [Obs.] Shak.

ANTRORSE
An*trorse", a. Etym: [From L. ante + versun turned; apparently formed
in imitation of re.] (Bot.)

Defn: Forward or upward in direction. Gray.

ANTROVERT
An`tro*vert", v. t.

Defn: To bend forward. [R.] Owen.

ANTRUM
An"trum, n.; pl. Antra. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: A cavern or cavity, esp. an anatomical cavity or sinus. Huxley.

ANTRUSTION
An*trus"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. antrustio.]

Defn: A vassal or voluntary follower of Frankish princes in their
enterprises.

ANT THRUSH
Ant" thrush`. (Zoöl.)
(a) One of several species of tropical birds, of the Old World, of
the genus Pitta, somewhat resembling the thrushes, and feeding
chiefly on ants.
(b) See Ant bird, under Ant.

ANUBIS
'd8A*nu"bis, n. Etym: [L.] (Myth.)

Defn: An Egyptian deity, the conductor of departed spirits,
represented by a human figure with the head of a dog or fox.

ANURA
A*nu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the orders of amphibians characterized by the absence of
a tail, as the frogs and toads. [Written also anoura.]

ANUROUS
A*nu"rous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Destitute of a tail, as the frogs and toads. [Also written
anourous.]

ANURY
An"u*ry, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Nonsecretion or defective secretion of urine; ischury.

ANUS
A"nus, n. Etym: [L., prob. for asnus: cf. Gr. as.] (Anat.)

Defn: The posterior opening of the alimentary canal, through which
the excrements are expelled.

ANVIL
An"vil, n. Etym: [OE. anvelt, anfelt, anefelt, AS. anfilt, onfilt; of
uncertain origin; cf. OHG. anafalz, D. aanbeld.]

1. An iron block, usually with a steel face, upon which metals are
hammered and shaped.

2. Anything resembling an anvil in shape or use. Specifically
(Anat.),

Defn: the incus. See Incus. To be on the anvil, to be in a state of
discussion, formation, or preparation, as when a scheme or measure is
forming, but not matured. Swift.

ANVIL
An"vil, v. t.

Defn: To form or shape on an anvil; to hammer out; as, anviled armor.
Beau. & Fl.

ANXIETUDE
Anx*i"e*tude, n. Etym: [L. anxietudo.]

Defn: The state of being anxious; anxiety. [R.]

ANXIETY
Anx*i"e*ty, n.; pl. Anxieties. Etym: [L. anxietas, fr. anxius: cf. F.
anxiété. See Anxious.]

1. Concern or solicitude respecting some thing o

2. Eager desire. J. D. Forbes

3. (Med.)

Defn: A state of restlessness and agitation, often with general
indisposition and a distressing sense of oppression at the
epigastrium. Dunglison.

Syn.
 -- Care; solicitude; foreboding; uneasiness; perplexity;
disquietude; disquiet; trouble; apprehension; restlessness. See Care.

ANXIOUS
Anx"ious, a. Etym: [L. anxius, fr. angere to cause pain, choke; akin
to Gr. Anger.]

1. Full of anxiety or disquietude; greatly concerned or solicitous,
esp. respecting future or unknown; being in painful suspense; --
applied to persons; as, anxious for the issue of a battle.

2. Accompanied with, or causing, anxiety; worrying; -- applied to
things; as, anxious labor.
The sweet of life, from which God hath bid dwell far off all anxious
cares. Milton.

3. Earnestly desirous; as, anxious to please.
He sneers alike at those who are anxious to preserve and at those who
are eager for reform. Macaulay.

Note: Anxious is followed by for, about, concerning, etc., before the
object of solicitude.

Syn.
 -- Solicitous; careful; uneasy; unquiet; restless; concerned;
disturbed; watchful.

ANXIOUSLY
Anx"ious*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anxious manner; with painful uncertainty; solicitously.

ANXIOUSNESS
Anx"ious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being anxious; great solicitude; anxiety.

ANY
A"ny, a. & pron. Etym: [OE. æni, æni, eni, ani, oni, AS. ænig, fr. an
one. It is akin to OS. enig, OHG. einic, G. einig, D. eenig. See
One.]

1. One indifferently, out of an indefinite number; one indefinitely,
whosoever or whatsoever it may be.

Note: Any is often used in denying or asserting without limitation;
as, this thing ought not be done at any time; I ask any one to answer
my question.
No man knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man the
Father, save the Son. Matt. xi. 27.

2. Some, of whatever kind, quantity, or number; as, are there any
witnesses present are there any other houses like it "Who will show
us any good" Ps. iv. 6.

Note: It is often used, either in the singular or the plural, as a
pronoun, the person or thing being understood; anybody; anyone; (pl.)
any persons.
If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, . . . and it shall be
given him. Jas. i. 5.
That if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he
might bring them bound unto Jerusalem. Acts ix. 2.
At any rate, In any case, whatever may be the state of affairs;
anyhow.

ANY
A"ny, adv.

Defn: To any extent; in any degree; at all.
You are not to go loose any longer. Shak.
Before you go any farther. Steele.

ANYBODY
A"ny*bod*y, n.

1. Any one out of an indefinite number of persons; anyone; any
person.
His Majesty could not keep any secret from anybody. Macaulay.

2. A person of consideration or standing. [Colloq.]
All the men belonged exclusively to the mechanical and shopkeeping
classes, and there was not a single banker or anybody in the list.
Lond. Sat. Rev.

ANYHOW
A"ny*how`, adv.

Defn: In any way or manner whatever; at any rate; in any event.
Anyhow, it must be acknowledged to be not a simple selforiginated
error. J. H. Newman.
Anyhow, the languages of the two nations were closely allied. E. A.
Freeman.

ANYONE
A"ny*one, n.

Defn: One taken at random rather than by selection; anybody.

Note: [Commonly written as two words.]

ANYTHING
A"ny*thing, n.

1. Any object, act, state, event, or fact whatever; thing of any
kind; something or other; aught; as, I would not do it for anything.
Did you ever know of anything so unlucky A. Trollope.
They do not know that anything is amiss with them. W. G. Sumner.

2. Expressing an indefinite comparison; -- with as or like. [Colloq.
or Lowx]
I fear your girl will grow as proud as anything. Richardson.

Note: Any thing, written as two words, is now commonly used in
contradistinction to any person or anybody. Formerly it was also
separated when used in the wider sense. "Necessity drove them to
undertake any thing and venture any thing." De Foe. Anything but, not
at all or in any respect. "The battle was a rare one, and the victory
anything but secure." Hawthorne.
 -- Anything like, in any respect; at all; as, I can not give
anything like a fair sketch of his trials.

ANYTHING
A"ny*thing, adv.

Defn: In any measure; anywise; at all.
Mine old good will and hearty affection towards you is not . . .
anything at all quailed. Robynson (More's Utopia).

ANYTHINGARIAN
A`ny*thing*a"ri*an, n.

Defn: One who holds to no particular creed or dogma.

ANYWAY; ANYWAYS
A"ny*way, A"ny*ways, adv.

Defn: Anywise; at all. Tennyson. Southey.

ANYWHERE
A"ny*where, adv.

Defn: In any place. Udall.

ANYWHITHER
A"ny*whith`er, adv.

Defn: To or towards any place. [Archaic] De Foe.

ANYWISE
A"ny*wise, adv.

Defn: In any wise or way; at all. "Anywise essential." Burke.

AONIAN
A*o"ni*an, a. Etym: [From Aonia, a part of Boeotia, in Greece.]

Defn: Pertaining to Aonia, Boeotia, or to the Muses, who were
supposed to dwell there. Aonian fount, the fountain of Aganippe, at
the foot of Mount Helicon, not far from Thebes, and sacred to the
Muses.

AORIST
A"o*rist, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: A tense in the Greek language, which expresses an action as
completed in past time, but leaves it, in other respects, wholly
indeterminate.

AORISTIC
A`o*ris"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Indefinite; pertaining to the aorist tense.

AORTA
A*or"ta, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The great artery which carries the blood from the heart to all
parts of the body except the lungs; the main trunk of the arterial
system.

Note: In fishes and the early stages of all higher vertebrates the
aorta divides near its origin into several branches (the aortic
arches) which pass in pairs round the oesophagus and unite to form
the systemic aorta. One or more pairs of these arches persist in
amphibia and reptiles, but only one arch in birds and mammals, this
being on the right side in the former, and on the left in the latter.

AORTIC
A*or"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the aorta.

AORTITIS
A`or*ti"tis, n. Etym: [Aorta + -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the aorta.

AOUDAD
A"ou*dad, n. Etym: [The Moorish name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An African sheeplike quadruped (the Ammotragus tragelaphus)
having a long mane on the breast and fore legs. It is, perhaps, the
chamois of the Old Testament.

APACE
A*pace", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + pace. OE. a pas at a walk, in which a
is the article. See Pace.]

Defn: With a quick pace; quick; fast; speedily.
His dewy locks did drop with brine apace. Spenser.
A visible triumph of the gospel drawapace. I. Taylor.

APACHES
A*pa"ches, n. pl.; sing. Apache. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A group of nomadic North American Indians including several
tribes native of Arizona, New Mexico, etc.

APAGOGE
Ap`a*go"ge, n. Etym: [Gr. (Logic)

Defn: An indirect argument which proves a thing by showing the
impossibility or absurdity of the contrary.

APAGOGIC; APAGOGICAL
Ap`a*gog"ic, Ap`a*gog"ic*al, a.

Defn: Proving indirectly, by showing the absurdity, or impossibility
of the contrary. Bp. Berkeley.

APAID
A*paid", a.

Defn: Paid; pleased. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APAIR
A*pair", v. t. & i.

Defn: To impair or become impaired; to injure. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APALACHIAN
Ap`a*la"chi*an, a.

Defn: See Appalachian.

APANAGE
Ap"an*age, n.

Defn: Same as Appanage.

APANTHROPY
A*pan"thro*py, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An aversion to the company of men; a love of solitude.

APAR; APARA
A"par, A"pa*ra, n. Etym: [Native name apara.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mataco.

APAREJO
A`pa*re"jo, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A kind of pack saddle used in the American military service and
among the Spanish Americans. It is made of leather stuffed with hay,
moss, or the like.

APARITHMESIS
Ap`a*rith"me*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: Enumeration of parts or particulars.

APART
A*part", adv. Etym: [F. à part; (L. ad) + part part. See Part.]

1. Separately, in regard to space or company; in a state of
separation as to place; aside.
Others apart sat on a hill retired. Milton.
The Lord hath set apart him that is godly for himself. Ps. iv. 3.

2. In a state of separation, of exclusion, or of distinction, as to
purpose, use, or character, or as a matter of thought; separately;
independently; as, consider the two propositions apart.

3. Aside; away. "Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity
of naughtiness." Jas. i. 21.
Let Pleasure go, put Care apart. Keble.

4. In two or more parts; asunder; to piece; as, to take a piece of
machinery apart.

APARTMENT
A*part"ment, n. Etym: [F. appartement; cf. It. appartamento, fr.
appartare to separate, set apart; all fr. L. ad + pars, partis, part.
See Apart.]

1. A room in a building; a division in a house, separated from others
by partitions. Fielding.

2. A set or suite of rooms. De Quincey.

3. A compartment. [Obs.] Pope.

APARTMENT HOUSE
A*part"ment house.

Defn: A building comprising a number of suites designed for separate
housekeeping tenements, but having conveniences, such as heat, light,
elevator service, etc., furnished in common; -- often distinguished
in the United States from a flat house.

APARTNESS
A*part"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of standing apart.

APASTRON
Ap*as"tron, n. Etym: [Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: That point in the orbit of a double star where the smaller star
is farthest from its primary.

APATHETIC; APATHETICAL
Ap`a*thet"ic, Ap`a*thet"ic*al a. Etym: [See Apathy.]

Defn: Void of feeling; not susceptible of deep emotion; passionless;
indifferent.

APATHETICALLY
Ap`a*thet"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an apathetic manner.

APATHIST
Ap"a*thist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. apathiste.]

Defn: One who is destitute of feeling.

APATHISTICAL
Ap`a*this"tic*al, a.

Defn: Apathetic; une motional. [R.]

APATHY
Ap"a*thy, n.; pl. Apathies. Etym: [L. apathia, Gr. apathie. See
Pathos.]

Defn: Want of feeling; privation of passion, emotion, or excitement;
dispassion; -- applied either to the body or the mind. As applied to
the mind, it is a calmness, indolence, or state of indifference,
incapable of being ruffled or roused to active interest or exertion
by pleasure, pain, or passion. "The apathy of despair." Macaulay.
A certain apathy or sluggishness in his nature which led him . . . to
leave events to take their own course. Prescott.
According to the Stoics, apathy meant the extinction of the passions
by the ascendency of reason. Fleming.

Note: In the first ages of the church, the Christians adopted the
term to express a contempt of earthly concerns.

Syn.
 -- Insensibility; unfeelingness; indifference; unconcern; stoicism;
supineness; sluggishness.

APATITE
Ap"a*tite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Native phosphate of lime, occurring usually in six-sided
prisms, color often pale green, transparent or translucent.

APAUME
A`pau`mé", n.

Defn: See Appaum.

APE
Ape, n. Etym: [AS. apa; akin to D. aap, OHG. affo, G. affe, Icel.
api, Sw. apa, Dan. abe, W. epa.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A quadrumanous mammal, esp. of the family Simiadæ, having teeth
of the same number and form as in man, having teeth of the same
number and form as in man, and possessing neither a tail nor cheek
pouches. The name is applied esp. to species of the genus Hylobates,
and is sometimes used as a general term for all Quadrumana. The
higher forms, the gorilla, chimpanzee, and ourang, are often called
anthropoid apes or man apes.

Note: The ape of the Old Testament was prqobably the rhesus monkey of
India, and allied forms.

2. One who imitates servilely (in allusion to the manners of the
ape); a mimic. Byron.

3. A dupe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APE
Ape, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aped; p. pr. & vb. n. Aping.]

Defn: To mimic, as an ape imitates human actions; to imitate or
follow servilely or irrationally. "How he apes his sire." Addison.
The people of England will not ape the fashions they have never
tried. Burke.

APEAK
A*peak", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + peak. Cf. F. à pic vertically.]
(Naut.)

Defn: In a vertical line. The anchor in apeak, when the cable has
been sufficiently hove in to bring the ship over it, and the ship is
them said to be hove apeak. [Spelt also apeek.]

APEHOOD
Ape"hood, n.

Defn: The state of being an ape.

APELLOUS
A*pel"lous, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + L. pellis skin.]

Defn: Destitute of skin. Brande & C.

APENNINE
Ap"en*nine, a. Etym: [L. Apenninus, fr. Celtic pen, or ben, peak,
mountain.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, the Apennines, a chain of
mountains extending through Italy.

APEPSY
A*pep"sy, n. Etym: [NL. apepsia, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Defective digestion, indigestion. Coxe.

APER
Ap"er, n.

Defn: One who apes.

APERCU
A`per`çu" (a`pâr`sus"), n.; pl. Aperçus (-sus"). [F., prop. p. p. of
apercevoir to perceive.]

1.

Defn: A first view or glance, or the perception or estimation so
obtained; an immediate apprehension or insight, appreciative rather
than analytic.

The main object being to develop the several aperçus or insights
which furnish the method of such psychology.
W. T. Harris.

A series of partial and more or less disparate aperçus or outlooks;
each for itself a center of experience.
James Ward.

2.  Hence, a brief or detached view; conspectus; sketch.

APEREA
A*pe"re*a, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wild Guinea pig of Brazil (Cavia aperea).

APERIENT
A*pe"ri*ent, a. Etym: [L. aperiens, p. pr. of aperire to uncover,
open; ab + parire, parere, to bring forth, produce. Cf. Cover,
Overt.] (Med.)

Defn: Gently opening the bowels; laxative.
 -- n.

Defn: An aperient medicine or food. Arbuthnot.

APERITIVE
A*per"i*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. apéritif, fr. L. aperire.]

Defn: Serving to open; aperient. Harvey.

APERT
A*pert", a. Etym: [OF. apert, L. apertus, p. p. of aperire. See
Aperient, and cf. Pert, a.]

Defn: Open; ev [Archaic] Fotherby.

APERT
A*pert", adv.

Defn: Openly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APERTION
A*per"tion, n. Etym: [L. apertio.]

Defn: The act of opening; an opening; an aperture. [Archaic] Wiseman.

APERTLY
A*pert"ly, adv.

Defn: Openly; clearly. [Archaic]

APERTNESS
A*pert"ness, n.

Defn: Openness; frankness. [Archaic]

APERTURE
Ap"er*ture, n. Etym: [L. apertura, fr. aperire. See Aperient.]

1. The act of opening. [Obs.]

2. An opening; an open space; a gap, cleft, or chasm; a passage
perforated; a hole; as, an aperture in a wall.
An aperture between the mountains. Gilpin.
The back aperture of the nostrils. Owen.

3. (Opt.)

Defn: The diameter of the exposed part of the object glass of a
telescope or other optical instrument; as, a telescope of four-inch
aperture.

Note: The aperture of microscopes is often expressed in degrees,
called also the angular aperture, which signifies the angular breadth
of the pencil of light which the instrument transmits from the object
or point viewed; as, a microscope of 100º aperture.

APERY
Ap"er*y, n.; pl. Aperies.

1. A place where apes are kept. [R.] Kingsley.

2. The practice of aping; an apish action. Coleridge.

APETALOUS
A*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + petal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having no petals, or flower leaves. [See Illust. under Anther].

APETALOUSNESS
A*pet"al*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being apetalous.

APEX
A"pex, n.; pl. E. Apexes; L. Apices. Etym: [L.]

1. The tip, top, point, or angular summit of anything; as, the apex
of a mountain, spire, or cone; the apex, or tip, of a leaf.

2. (Mining)

Defn: The end or edge of a vein nearest the surface. [U.S.] Apex of
the earth's motion (Astron.), that point of the heavens toward which
the earth is moving in its orbit.

APHAERESIS
A*phær"e*sis, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Same as Apheresis.

APHAKIA
A*pha"ki*a, n. Etym: [NL.; Gr. (Med.)

Defn: An anomalous state of refraction caused by the absence of the
crystalline lens, as after operations for cataract. The remedy is the
use of powerful convex lenses. Dunglison.

APHAKIAL
A*pha"ki*al, a. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to aphakia; as, aphakial eyes.

APHANIPTERA
Aph`a*nip"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of wingless insects, of which the flea in the type. See
Flea.

APHANIPTEROUS
Aph`a*nip"ter*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Aphaniptera.

APHANITE
Aph"a*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A very compact, dark-colored

APHANITIC
Aph`a*nit"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Resembling aphanite; having a very fine-grained structure.

APHASIA; APHASY
A*pha"si*a, Aph"a*sy, n. Etym: [NL. aphasia, Gr. aphasie.] (Med.)

Defn: Loss of the power of speech, or of the appropriate use of
words, the vocal organs remaining intact, and the intelligence being
preserved. It is dependent on injury or disease of the brain.

APHASIC
A*pha"sic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or affected by, aphasia; speechless.

APHELION
A*phel"ion, n.; pl. Aphelia. Etym: [Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: That point of a planet's or comet's orbit which is most distant
from the sun, the opposite point being the perihelion.

APHELIOTROPIC
A*phe`li*o*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Turning away from the sun; -- said of leaves, etc. Darwin.

APHELIOTROPISM
A*phe`li*ot"ro*pism, n.

Defn: The habit of bending from the sunlight; -- said of certain
plants.

APHEMIA
A*phe"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Loss of the power of speaking, while retaining the power of
writing; -- a disorder of cerebral origin.

APHERESIS
A*pher"e*sis, n. Etym: [L. aphaeresis, Gr.

1. (Gram.)

Defn: The dropping of a letter or syllable from the beginning of a
word; e. g., cute for acute.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: An operation by which any part is separated from the rest.
[Obs.] Dunglison.

APHESIS
Aph"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The loss of a short unaccented vowel at the beginning of a
word; -- the result of a phonetic process; as, squire for esquire.
New Eng. Dict.

APHETIC
A*phet"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Shortened by dropping a letter or a syllable from the beginning
of a word; as, an aphetic word or form.
 -- A*phet"ic*al*ly, adv. New Eng. Dict.

APHETISM
Aph"e*tism, n.

Defn: An aphetized form of a word. New Eng. Dict.

APHETIZE
Aph"e*tize, v. t.

Defn: To shorten by aphesis.
These words . . . have been aphetized. New Eng. Dict.

APHID
A"phid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the genus Aphis; an aphidian.

APHIDES
Aph"i*des, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Aphis.

APHIDIAN
A*phid"i*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the family Aphidæ.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the aphides; an aphid.

APHIDIVOROUS
Aph`i*div"o*rous. Etym: [Aphis + L. vorare to devour.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Devouring aphides; aphidophagous.

APHIDOPHAGOUS
Aph`i*doph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Aphis + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feeding upon aphides, or plant lice, as do beetles of the
family Coccinellidæ.

APHILANTHROPY
Aph`i*lan"thro*py, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Want of love to mankind; -- the opposite of philanthropy. Coxe.

APHIS
A"phis, n.; pl. Aphides. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of insects belonging to the order Hemiptera and family
Aphidæ, including numerous species known as plant lice and green
flies.

Note: Besides the true males and females, there is a race of wingless
asexual individuals which have the power of producing living young in
rapid succession, and these in turn may produce others of the same
kind for several generations, before sexual individuals appear. They
suck the sap of plants by means of a tubular proboscis, and owing to
the wonderful rapidity of their reproduction become very destructive
to vegetation. Many of the Aphidæ excrete honeydew from two tubes
near the end of the body.

APHIS LION
A"phis li"on. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larva of the lacewinged flies (Chrysopa), which feeds
voraciously upon aphids. The name is also applied to the larvæ of the
ladybugs (Coccinella).

APHLOGISTIC
Aph`lo*gis"*tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Flameless; as, an aphlogistic lamp, in which a coil of wire is
kept in a state of continued ignition by alcohol, without flame.

APHONIA; APHONY
A*pho"ni*a, Aph"o*ny, n. Etym: [NL. aphonia, Gr. aphonie.] (Med.)

Defn: Loss of voice or vocal utterance.

APHONIC; APHONOUS
A*phon"ic, Aph"o*nous, a.

Defn: Without voice; voiceless; nonvocal.

APHORISM
Aph"o*rism, n. Etym: [F. aphorisme, fr. Gr. Horizon.]

Defn: A comprehensive maxim or principle expressed in a few words; a
sharply defined sentence relating to abstract truth rather than to
practical matters.
The first aphorism of Hippocrates is, "Life is short, and the art is
long." Fleming.

Syn.
 -- Axiom; maxim; adage; proverb; apothegm; saying; saw; truism;
dictum. See Axiom.

APHORISMATIC; APHORISMIC
Aph`o*ris*mat"ic, Aph`o*ris"mic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to aphorisms, or having the form of an aphorism.

APHORISMER
Aph`o*ris"mer n.

Defn: A dealer in aphorisms. [Used in derogation or contempt.]
Milton.

APHORIST
Aph"o*rist, n.

Defn: A writer or utterer of aphorisms.

APHORISTIC; APHORISTICAL
Aph`o*ris"tic, Aph`o*ris"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: In the form of, or of the nature of, an aphorism; in the form
of short, unconnected sentences; as, an aphoristic style.
The method of the book is aphoristic. De Quincey.

APHORISTICALLY
Aph`o*ris"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the form or manner of aphorisms; pithily.

APHORIZE
Aph"o*rize, v. i.

Defn: To make aphorisms.

APHOTIC
A*pho"tic (a*fo"tik), a. [Gr. 'a`fws, 'a`fwtos.]

Defn: Without light.

APHOTIC REGION
Aphotic region. (Phytogeog.)

Defn: A depth of water so great that only those organisms can exist
that do not assimilate.

APHRASIA
A*phra"si*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr. 'a priv. + fra`sis speech.] (Med.)
 (a) = Dumbness.
 (b) A disorder of speech in which words can be uttered but not
intelligibly joined together.

APHRITE
Aph"rite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See under Calcite.

APHRODISIAC; APHRODISIACAL
Aph`ro*dis"i*ac, Aph`ro*di*si"a*cal, a. Etym: [Gr. Aphrodite.]

Defn: Exciting venereal desire; provocative to venery.

APHRODISIAC
Aph`ro*dis"i*ac, n.

Defn: That which (as a drug, or some kinds of food) excites to
venery.

APHRODISIAN
Aph`ro*dis"i*an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to Aphrodite or Venus. "Aphrodisian dames" [that is,
courtesans]. C. Reade.

APHRODITE
Aph`ro*di"te, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Classic Myth.)

Defn: The Greek goddess of love, corresponding to the Venus of the
Romans.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large marine annelid, covered with long, lustrous, golden,
hairlike setæ; the sea mouse.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beautiful butterfly (Argunnis Aphrodite) of the United
States.

APHRODITIC
Aph`ro*dit"ic, a.

Defn: Venereal. [R.] Dunglison.

APHTHA
Aph"tha, n. Etym: [Sing. of Aphthæ.] (Med.)
(a) One of the whitish specks called aphthæ.
(b) The disease, also called thrush.

APHTHAE
Aph"thæ, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Roundish pearl-colored specks or flakes in the mouth, on the
lips, etc., terminating in white sloughs. They are commonly
characteristic of thrush.

APHTHOID
Aph"thoid, a. Etym: [Aphtha + -oid.]

Defn: Of the nature of aphthæ; resembling thrush.

APHTHONG
Aph"thong, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A letter, or a combination of letters, employed in spelling a
word, but in the pronunciation having no sound.
 -- Aph*thon"gal, a.

APHTHOUS
Aph"thous a. Etym: [Cf. F. aphtheux.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or caused by, aphthæ; characterized by aphtæ;
as, aphthous ulcers; aphthous fever.

APHYLLOUS
Aph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of leaves, as the broom rape, certain euphorbiaceous
plants, etc.

APIACEOUS
A`pi*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Umbelliferous.

APIAN
A"pi*an, a.

Defn: Belonging to bees.

APIARIAN
A`pi*a"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or relating to bees.

APIARIST
A"pi*a*rist, n.

Defn: One who keeps an apiary.

APIARY
A"pi*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. apiarium, fr. apis bee.]

Defn: A place where bees are kept; a stand or shed for bees; a
beehouse.

APICAL
Ap"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. apex, apicis, tip or summit.]

Defn: At or belonging to an apex, tip, or summit. Gray.

APICES
Ap"i*ces, n. pl.

Defn: See Apex.

APICIAN
A*pi"cian, a. Etym: [L. Apicianus.]

Defn: Belonging to Apicius, a notorious Roman epicure; hence applied
to whatever is peculiarly refined or dainty and expensive in cookery.
H. Rogers.

APICULAR
A*pic"u*lar, a. Etym: [NL. apiculus, dim. of L. apex, apicis.]

Defn: Situated at, or near, the apex; apical.

APICULATE; APICULATED
A*pic"u*late, A*pic"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Apicular.] (Bot.)

Defn: Terminated abruptly by a small, distinct point, as a leaf.

APICULTURE
Ap"i*cul`ture, n. Etym: [L. apis bee + E. culture.]

Defn: Rearing of bees for their honey and wax.

APIECE
A*piece", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + piece.]

Defn: Each by itself; by the single one; to each; as the share of
each; as, these melons cost a shilling apiece. "Fined . . . a
thousand pounds apiece." Hume.

APIECES
A*pie"ces, adv.

Defn: In pieces or to pieces. [Obs.] "Being torn apieces." Shak.

APIKED
A*pik"ed, a.

Defn: Trimmed. [Obs.]
Full fresh and new here gear apiked was. Chaucer.

APIOL
A"pi*ol, n. Etym: [L. apium parsley + -ol.] (Med.)

Defn: An oily liquid derived from parsley.

APIOLOGIST
A`pi*ol"o*gist, n. Etym: [L. apis bee + -logist (see -logy).]

Defn: A student of bees. [R.] Emerson.

APIOLOGY
A`pi*ol"o*gy, n. [L. apis bee + -logy.]

Defn: The scientific or systematic study of honey bees.

APIS
A"pis, n. Etym: [L., bee.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of insects of the order Hymenoptera, including the
common honeybee (Apis mellifica) and other related species. See
Honeybee.

APISH
Ap"ish, a.

Defn: Having the qualities of an ape; prone to imitate in a servile
manner. Hence: Apelike; fantastically silly; foppish; affected;
trifling.
The apish gallantry of a fantastic boy. Sir W. Scott.

APISHLY
Ap"ish*ly, adv.

Defn: In an apish manner; with servile imitation; foppishly.

APISHNESS
Ap"ish*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being apish; mimicry; foppery.

APITPAT
A*pit"pat, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + pitpat.]

Defn: With quick beating or palpitation; pitapat. Congreve.

APLACENTAL
Ap`la*cen"tal, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + placental.]

Defn: Belonging to the Aplacentata; without placenta.

APLACENTATA
Ap`la*cen*ta"ta, n. pl. Etym: [Pref. a- not + placenta.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Mammals which have no placenta.

APLACOPHORA
Ap`la*coph"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Amphineura in which the body is naked or covered
with slender spines or setæ, but is without shelly plates.

APLANATIC
Ap`la*nat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Opt.)

Defn: Having two or more parts of different curvatures, so combined
as to remove spherical aberration; -- said of a lens. Aplanatic focus
of a lens (Opt.), the point or focus from which rays diverging pass
the lens without spherical aberration. In certain forms of lenses
there are two such foci; and it is by taking advantage of this fact
that the best aplanatic object glasses of microscopes are
constructed.

APLANATISM
A*plan"a*tism, n.

Defn: Freedom from spherical aberration.

APLANOGAMETE
A*plan`o*ga*mete", n. (Bot.)

Defn: A nonmotile gamete, found in certain lower algæ.

APLASIA
A*pla"si*a, n. [NL.; Gr.  priv. +  a molding.] (Med.)

Defn: Incomplete or faulty development.

APLASTIC
A*plas"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + plastic.]

Defn: Not plastic or easily molded.

APLOMB
A`plomb", n. Etym: [F., lit. perpendicularity; plomb lead. See
Plumb.]

Defn: Assurance of manner or of action; self-possession.

APLOTOMY
A*plot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: Simple incision. Dunglison.

APLUSTRE
A*plus"tre, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: An ornamental appendage of wood at the ship's stern, usually
spreading like a fan and curved like a bird's feather. Audsley.

APLYSIA
A*plys"i*a, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine mollusks of the order Tectibranchiata; the
sea hare. Some of the species when disturbed throw out a deep purple
liquor, which colors the water to some distance. See Illust. in
Appendix.

APNEUMATIC
Ap`neu*mat"ic, a. [Gr.  not blown through.] (Med.)

Defn: Devoid of air; free from air; as, an apneumatic lung; also,
effected by or with exclusion of air; as, an apneumatic operation.

APNEUMONA
Ap*neu"mo*na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of holothurians in which the internal respiratory
organs are wanting; -- called also Apoda or Apodes.

APNOEA; APNEA
Ap*nae"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Partial privation or suspension of breath; suffocation.

APO
Ap"o. Etym: [Gr. Ab-.]

Defn: A prefix from a Greek preposition. It usually signifies from,
away from, off, or asunder, separate; as, in apocope (a cutting off),
apostate, apostle (one sent away), apocarpous.

APOCALYPSE
A*poc"a*lypse, n. Etym: [L. apocalypsis, Gr. apocalypse.]

1. The revelation delivered to St. John, in the isle of Patmos, near
the close of the first century, forming the last book of the New
Testament.

2. Anything viewed as a revelation; as disclosure.
The new apocalypse of Nature. Carlyle.

APOCALYPTIC; APOCALYPTICAL
A*poc`a*lyp"tic, A*poc`a*lyp"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a revelation, or, specifically, to the
Revelation of St. John; containing, or of the nature of, a prophetic
revelation. Apocolyptic number, the number 666, mentioned in Rev.
xiii. 18. It has been variously interpreted.

APOCALYPTIC; APOCALYPTIST
A*poc`a*lyp"tic, A*poc`a*lyp"tist, n.

Defn: The writer of the Apocalypse.

APOCALYPTICALLY
A*poc`a*lyp"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By revelation; in an apocalyptic manner.

APOCARPOUS
Ap`o*car"pous, a. Etym: [Pref. apo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Either entirely of partially separate, as the carpels of a
compound pistil; -- opposed to syncarpous. Lindley.

APOCHROMATIC
Ap`o*chro*mat"ic, a. [Pref. apo-+ chromatic.] (Optics)

Defn: Free from chromatic and spherical aberration; -- said esp. of a
lens in which rays of three or more colors are brought to the same
focus, the degree of achromatism thus obtained being more complete
than where two rays only are thus focused, as in the ordinary
achromatic objective. --Ap`o*chro"ma*tism (#), n.

APOCODEINE
Ap`o*co*de"ine, n. [Pref. apo-+ codeine.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid, , prepared from codeine. In its effects it
resembles apomorphine.

APOCOPATE
A*poc"o*pate, v. t. Etym: [LL. apocopatus, p. p. of apocopare to cut
off, fr. L. apocore. See Apocope.] (Gram.)

Defn: To cut off or drop; as, to apocopate a word, or the last
letter, syllable, or part of a word.

APOCOPATE; APOCOPATED
A*poc"o*pate, A*poc"o*pa`ted, a.

Defn: Shortened by apocope; as, an apocopate form.

APOCOPATION
A*poc`o*pa"tion, n.

Defn: Shortening by apocope; the state of being apocopated.

APOCOPE
A*poc"o*pe, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. The cutting off, or omission, of the last letter, syllable, or
part of a word.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A cutting off; abscission.

APOCRISIARY; APOCRISIARIUS
Ap`o*cris"i*a*ry, Ap`o*cris`i*a"ri*us, n. Etym: [L. apocrisiarius,
apocrisarius, fr. Gr. (Eccl.)

Defn: A delegate or deputy; especially, the pope's nuncio or legate
at Constantinople.

APOCRUSTIC
Ap`o*crus"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Astringent and repellent.
 -- n.

Defn: An apocrustic medicine.

APOCRYPHA
A*poc"ry*pha, n. pl., but often used as sing. with pl. Apocryphas.
Etym: [L. apocryphus apocryphal, Gr.

1. Something, as a writing, that is of doubtful authorship or
authority; -- formerly used also adjectively. [Obs.] Locke.

2. Specif.: Certain writings which are received by some Christians as
an authentic part of the Holy Scriptures, but are rejected by others.

Note: Fourteen such writings, or books, formed part of the
Septuagint, but not of the Hebrew canon recognized by the Jews of
Palestine. The Council of Trent included all but three of these in
the canon of inspired books having equal authority. The German and
English Reformers grouped them in their Bibles under the title
Apocrypha, as not having dogmatic authority, but being profitable for
instruction. The Apocrypha is now commonly

APOCRYPHAL
A*poc"ry*phal, a.

1. Pertaining to the Apocrypha.

2. Not canonical. Hence: Of doubtful authority; equivocal; mythic;
fictitious; spurious; false.
The passages . . . are, however, in part from apocryphal or
fictitious works. Sir G. C. Lewis.

APOCRYPHALIST
A*poc"ry*phal*ist, n.

Defn: One who believes in, or defends, the Apocrypha. [R.]

APOCRYPHALLY
A*poc"ry*phal*ly, adv.

Defn: In an apocryphal manner; mythically; not indisputably.

APOCRYPHALNESS
A*poc"ry*phal*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being apocryphal; doubtfulness of
credit or genuineness.

APOCYNACEOUS; APOCYNEOUS
A*poc`y*na"ceous, Ap`o*cyn"e*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, a family of plants, of which the
dogbane (Apocynum) is the type.

APOCYNIN
A*poc"y*nin, n. Etym: [From Apocynum, the generic name of dogbane.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A bitter principle obtained from the dogbane (Apocynum
cannabinum).

APOD; APODAL
Ap"od, Ap"o*dal, a. Etym: [See Apod, n.]

1. Without feet; footless.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Destitute of the ventral fin, as the eels.

APOD; APODE
Ap"od, Ap"ode, n.; pl. Apods or Apodes. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of certain animals that have no feet or footlike organs;
esp. one of certain fabulous birds which were said to have no feet.

Note: The bird of paradise formerly had the name Paradisea apoda,
being supposed to have no feet, as these were wanting in the
specimens first obtained from the East Indies.

APODA
Ap"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Apod, n.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A group of cirripeds, destitute of footlike organs.
(b) An order of Amphibia without feet. See Ophiomorpha.
(c) A group of worms without appendages, as the leech.

APODAN
Ap"o*dan, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Apodal.

APODEICTIC; APODICTIC; APODEICTICAL; APODICTICAL
Ap"o*deic"tic, Ap`o*dic"tic, Ap`o*deic"tic*al, Ap`o*dic"tic*al, a.
Etym: [L. apodicticus, Gr.

Defn: Self-evident; intuitively true; evident beyond contradiction.
Brougham. Sir Wm. Hamilton.

APODEICTICALLY; APODICTICALLY
Ap`o*deic"tic*al*ly, Ap`o*dic"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to be evident beyond contradiction.

APODEME
Ap"o*deme, n. Etym: [Pref. apo- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the processes of the shell which project inwards and
unite with one another, in the thorax of many Crustacea.

APODES
Ap"o*des, n. pl. Etym: [NL., masc. pl. See Apoda.] (Zoöl.)
(a) An order of fishes without ventral fins, including the eels.
(b) A group of holothurians destitute of suckers. See Apneumona.

APODICTIC
Ap`o*dic"tic, a.

Defn: Same as Apodeictic.

APODIXIS
Ap`o*dix"is, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: Full demonstration.

APODOSIS
A*pod"o*sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: The consequent clause or conclusion in a conditional sentence,
expressing the result, and thus distinguished from the protasis or
clause which expresses a condition. Thus, in the sentence, "Though he
slay me, yet will I trust in him," the former clause is the protasis,
and the latter the apodosis.

Note: Some grammarians extend the terms protasis and apodosis to the
introductory clause and the concluding clause, even when the sentence
is not conditional.

APODOUS
Ap"o*dous(#), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Apodal; apod.

APODYTERIUM
A*pod`y*te"ri*um, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Anc. Arch.)

Defn: The apartment at the entrance of the baths, or in the palestra,
where one stripped; a dressing room.

APOGAIC
Ap`o*ga"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Apogean.

APOGAMIC
Ap`o*gam"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to apogamy.

APOGAMY
A*pog"a*my, n. Etym: [Pref. apo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The formation of a bud in place of a fertilized ovule or
oöspore. De Bary.

APOGEAL
Ap`o*ge"al, a. (Astron.)

Defn: Apogean.

APOGEAN
Ap`o*ge"an, a.

Defn: Connected with the apogee; as, apogean (neap) tides, which
occur when the moon has passed her apogee.

APOGEE
Ap"o*gee, n. Etym: [Gr. apogée.]

1. (Astron.)

Defn: That point in the orbit of the moon which is at the greatest
distance from the earth.

Note: Formerly, on the hypothesis that the earth is in the center of
the system, this name was given to that point in the orbit of the
sun, or of a planet, which was supposed to be at the greatest
distance from the earth.

2. Fig.: The farthest or highest point; culmination.

APOGEOTROPIC
Ap`o*ge`o*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. apo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Bending away from the ground; -- said of leaves, etc. Darwin.

APOGEOTROPISM
Ap"o*ge*ot"ro*pism, n.

Defn: The apogeotropic tendency of some leaves, and other parts.

APOGRAPH
Ap"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. apographe.]

Defn: A copy or transcript. Blount.

APOHYAL
Ap`o*hy"al, a. Etym: [Pref. apo- + the Gr. letter Y.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a portion of the horn of the hyoid bone.

APOISE
A*poise", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + poise.]

Defn: Balanced.

APOLAR
A*po"lar, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + polar.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having no radiating processes; -- applied particularly to
certain nerve cells.

APOLAUSTIC
Ap`o*laus"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Devoted to enjoyment.

APOLLINARIAN
A*pol`li*na"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Apollinaris, fr. Apollo.] (Rom.
Antiq.)

Defn: In honor of Apollo; as, the Apollinarian games.

APOLLINARIAN
A*pol`li*na"ri*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of Apollinaris, Bishop of Laodicea in the fourth
century, who denied the proper humanity of Christ.

APOLLINARIS WATER
A*pol`li*na"ris wa"ter.

Defn: An effervescing alkaline mineral water used as a table
beverage. It is obtained from a spring in Apollinarisburg, near Bonn.

APOLLO
A*pol"lo, n. Etym: [L. Apollo, -linis, Gr. (Classic Myth.)

Defn: A deity among the Greeks and Romans. He was the god of light
and day (the "sun god"), of archery, prophecy, medicine, poetry, and
music, etc., and was represented as the model of manly grace and
beauty; -- called also Phébus. The Apollo Belvedere, a celebrated
statue of Apollo in the Belvedere gallery of the Vatican palace at
Rome, esteemed of the noblest representations of the human frame.

APOLLONIAN; APOLLONIC
Ap`ol*lo"ni*an, Ap`ol*lon"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Apollo.

APOLLYON
A*pol"ly*on, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The Destroyer; -- a name used (Rev. ix. 11) for the angel of
the bottomless pit, answering to the Hebrew Abaddon.

APOLOGER
A*pol"o*ger, n.

Defn: A teller of apologues. [Obs.]

APOLOGETIC; APOLOGETICAL
A*pol`o*get"ic, A*pol`o*get"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Logic.]

Defn: Defending by words or arguments; said or written in defense, or
by way of apology; regretfully excusing; as, an apologetic essay. "To
speak in a subdued and apologetic tone." Macaulay.

APOLOGETICALLY
A*pol`o*get"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of apology.

APOLOGETICS
A*pol`o*get"ics, n.

Defn: That branch of theology which defends the Holy Scriptures, and
sets forth the evidence of their divine authority.

APOLOGIST
A*pol"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. apologiste.]

Defn: One who makes an apology; one who speaks or writes in defense
of a faith, a cause, or an institution; especially, one who argues in
defense of Christianity.

APOLOGIZE
A*pol"o*gize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Apologized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Apologizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. apologiser.]

1. To make an apology or defense. Dr. H. More.

2. To make an apology or excuse; to make acknowledgment of some fault
or offense, with expression of regret for it, by way of amends; --
with for; as, my correspondent apologized for not answering my
letter.
To apologize for his insolent language. Froude.

APOLOGIZE
A*pol"o*gize, v. t.

Defn: To defend. [Obs.]
The Christians . . . were apologized by Plinie. Dr. G. Benson.

APOLOGIZER
A*pol"o*gi`zer, n.

Defn: One who makes an apology; an apologist.

APOLOGUE
Ap"o*logue, n. Etym: [L. apologous, Gr. apologue.]

Defn: A story or relation of fictitious events, intended to convey
some moral truth; a moral fable.

Note: An apologue differs from a parable in this;: the parable is
drawn from events which take place among mankind, and therefore
requires probability in the narrative; the apologue is founded on
supposed actions of brutes or inanimate things, and therefore is not
limited by strict rules of probability. Æsop's fables are good
examples of apologues.

APOLOGY
A*pol"o*gy, n.; pl. Apologies . Etym: [L. apologia, Gr. apologie. See
Apologetic.]

1. Something said or written in defense or justification of what
appears to others wrong, or of what may be liable to disapprobation;
justification; as, Tertullian's Apology for Christianity.
It is not my intention to make an apology for my poem; some will
think it needs no excuse, and others will receive none. Dryden.

2. An acknowledgment intended as an atonement for some improper or
injurious remark or act; an admission to another of a wrong or
discourtesy done him, accompanied by an expression of regret.

3. Anything provided as a substitute; a makeshift.
He goes to work devising apologies for window curtains. Dickens.

Syn.
 -- Excuse. An apology, in the original sense of the word, was a
pleading off from some charge or imputation, by explaining and
defending one's principles or conduct. It therefore amounted to a
vindication. One who offers an apology, admits himself to have been,
at least apparently, in the wrong, but brings forward some palliating
circumstance, or tenders a frank acknowledgment, by way of
reparation. We make an apology for some breach of propriety or
decorum (like rude expressions, unbecoming conduct, etc.), or some
deficiency in what might be reasonably expected. We offer an excuse
when we have been guilty of some breach or neglect of duty; and we do
it by way of extenuating our fault, and with a view to be forgiven.
When an excuse has been accepted, an apology may still, in some
cases, be necessary or appropriate. "An excuse is not grounded on the
claim of innocence, but is rather an appeal for favor resting on some
collateral circumstance. An apology mostly respects the conduct of
individuals toward each other as equals; it is a voluntary act
produced by feelings of decorum, or a desire for the good opinion of
others." Crabb.

APOLOGY
A*pol"o*gy, v. i.

Defn: To offer an apology. [Obs.]
For which he can not well apology. J. Webster.

APOMECOMETER
Ap`o*me*com"e*ter, n.

Defn: An instrument for measuring the height of objects. Knight.

APOMECOMETRY
Ap`o*me*com"e*try, n. Etym: [Pref. apo- + Gr. -metry.]

Defn: The art of measuring the distance of objects afar off. [Obs. or
R.]

APOMORPHIA; APOMORPHINE
Ap`o*mor"phi*a, Ap`o*mor"phine, n. Etym: [Pref. apo- + morphia,
morphine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline alkaloid obtained from morphia. It is a powerful
emetic.

APONEUROSIS
Ap`o*neu*ro"sis, n.; pl. Aponeuroses. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Any one of the thicker and denser of the deep fasciæ which
cover, invest, and the terminations and attachments of, many muscles.
They often differ from tendons only in being flat and thin. See
Fascia.

APONEUROTIC
Ap`o*neu*rot"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an aponeurosis.

APONEUROTOMY
Ap`o*neu*rot"o*my, n. Etym: [Aponeurosis + Gr.

Defn: Dissection of aponeuroses.

APOPEMPTIC
Ap`o*pemp"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Sung or addressed to one departing; valedictory; as, apoplectic
songs or hymns.

APOPHASIS
A*poph"a*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure by which a speaker formally declines to take notice of
a favorable point, but in such a manner as to produce the effect
desired. [For example, see Mark Antony's oration. Shak., Julius
Cæsar, iii. 2.]

APOPHLEGMATIC
Ap`o*phleg*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Phlegmatic.] (Med.)

Defn: Designed to facilitate discharges of phlegm or mucus from mouth
or nostrils.
 -- n.

Defn: An apohlegmatic medicine.

APOPHLEGMATISM
Ap`o*phleg"ma*tism, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: The action of apophlegmatics.

2. An apophlegmatic. [Obs.] Bacon.

APOPHLEGMATIZANT
Ap`o*phleg*mat"i*zant, n. (Med.)

Defn: An apophlegmatic. [Obs.]

APOPHTHEGM
Ap`oph*thegm, n.

Defn: See Apothegm.

APOPHTHEGMATIC; APOPHTHEGMATICAL
Ap`oph*theg*mat"ic, Ap`oph*theg*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Same as Apothegmatic.

APOPHYGE
A*poph"y*ge, n. Etym: [Gr. apophyge.] (Arch.)

Defn: The small hollow curvature given to the top or bottom of the
shaft of a column where it expands to meet the edge of the fillet; --
called also the scape. Parker.

APOPHYLLITE
A*poph"yl*lite, n. Etym: [Pref. apo- + Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral relating to the zeolites, usually occurring in square
prisms or octahedrons with pearly luster on the cleavage surface. It
is a hydrous silicate of calcium and potassium.

APOPHYSIS
A*poph"y*sis, n.; pl. -ses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A marked prominence or process on any part of a bone.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An enlargement at the top of a pedicel or stem, as seen in
certain mosses. Gray.

APOPLECTIC; APOPLECTICAL
Ap`o*plec"tic(#) Ap`o*plec"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. apoplecticus, Gr.
apoplectique. See Apoplexy.]

Defn: Relating to apoplexy; affected with, inclined to, or
symptomatic of, apoplexy; as, an apoplectic person, medicine, habit
or temperament, symptom, fit, or stroke.

APOPLECTIC
Ap`o*plec"tic, n.

Defn: One liable to, or affected with, apoplexy.

APOPLECTIFORM; APOPLECTOID
Ap`o*plec"ti*form, Ap`o*plec"toid, a. Etym: [Apoplectic + -form, -
oid.]

Defn: Resembling apoplexy.

APOPLEX
Ap"o*plex, n.

Defn: Apoplexy. [Obs.] Dryden.

APOPLEXED
Ap`o*plexed, a.

Defn: Affected with apoplexy. [Obs.] Shak.

APOPLEXY
Ap"o*plex`y, n. Etym: [OE. poplexye, LL. poplexia, apoplexia, fr. Gr.
apoplexie. See Plague.] (Med.)

Defn: Sudden diminution or loss of consciousness, sensation, and
voluntary motion, usually caused by pressure on the brain.

Note: The term is now usually limited to cerebral apoplexy, or loss
of consciousness due to effusion of blood or other lesion within the
substance of the brain; but it is sometimes extended to denote an
effusion of blood into the substance of any organ; as, apoplexy of
the lung.

APORETICAL
Ap`o*ret"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Aporia.]

Defn: Doubting; skeptical. [Obs.] Cudworth.

APORIA
A*po"ri*a, n.; pl. Aporias. Etym: [L., doubt, Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure in which the speaker professes to be at a loss what
course to pursue, where to begin to end, what to say, etc.

APOROSA
Ap`o*ro"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Aporia.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of corals in which the coral is not porous; -- opposed
to Perforata.

APOROSE
Ap`o*rose", a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without pores.

APORT
A*port", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + port.] (Naut.)

Defn: On or towards the port or left side; -- said of the helm.

APOSEMATIC
Ap`o*se*mat"ic, a. [Pref. apo-+ sematic.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having or designating conspicuous or warning colors or
structures indicative of special means of defense against enemies, as
in the skunk.

APOSIOPESIS
Ap`o*si`o*pe"sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of speech in which the speaker breaks off suddenly, as
if unwilling or unable to state what was in his mind; as, "I declare
to you that his conduct -- but I can not speak of that, here."

APOSITIC
Ap`o*sit"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Destroying the appetite, or suspending hunger.

APOSTASY
A*pos"ta*sy, n.; pl. Apostasies. Etym: [OE. apostasie, F. apostasie,
L. apostasia, fr. Gr. Off and Stand.]

Defn: An abandonment of what one has voluntarily professed; a total
desertion of departure from one's faith, principles, or party; esp.,
the renunciation of a religious faith; as, Julian's apostasy from
Christianity.

APOSTATE
A*pos"tate, n. Etym: [L. apostata, Gr. Apostasy.]

1. One who has forsaken the faith, principles, or party, to which he
before adhered; esp., one who has forsaken his religion for another;
a pervert; a renegade.

2. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: One who, after having received sacred orders, renounces his
clerical profession.

APOSTATE
A*pos"tate, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, apostasy; faithless to
moral allegiance; renegade.
So spake the apostate angel. Milton.
A wretched and apostate state. Steele.

APOSTATE
A*pos"tate, v. i. Etym: [L. apostatare.]

Defn: To apostatize. [Obs.]
We are not of them which apostate from Christ. Bp. Hall.

APOSTATIC
Ap`o*stat"ic, a. Etym: [L. apostaticus, Gr.

Defn: Apostatical. [R.]

APOSTATICAL
Ap`o*stat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Apostate.
An heretical and apostatical church. Bp. Hall.

APOSTATIZE
A*pos"ta*tize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Apostatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Apostatizing.] Etym: [LL. apostatizare.]

Defn: To renounce totally a religious belief once professed; to
forsake one's church, the faith or principles once held, or the party
to which one has previously adhered.
He apostatized from his old faith in facts, took to believing in
Carlyle.

APOSTEMATE
A*pos"te*mate, v. i. Etym: [See Aposteme.]

Defn: To form an abscess; to swell and fill with pus. Wiseman.

APOSTEMATION
A*pos`te*ma"tion, n. Etym: [LL. apostematio: cf. F. apostémation.]
(Med.)

Defn: The formation of an aposteme; the process of suppuration.
[Written corruptly imposthumation.] Wiseman.

APOSTEMATOUS
Ap`os*tem"a*tous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or partaking of the nature of, an aposteme.

APOSTEME
Ap"os*teme, n. Etym: [L. apostema, Gr. apostème. See Apostasy.]
(Med.)

Defn: An abscess; a swelling filled with purulent matter. [Written
corruptly imposthume.]

A POSTERIORI
A` pos*te`ri*o"ri. Etym: [L. a (ab) + posterior latter.]

1. (Logic)

Defn: Characterizing that kind of reasoning which derives
propositions from the observation of facts, or by generalizations
from facts arrives at principles and definitions, or infers causes
from effects. This is the reverse of a priori reasoning.

2. (Philos.)

Defn: Applied to knowledge which is based upon or derived from facts
through induction or experiment; inductive or empirical.

APOSTIL; APOSTILLE
A*pos"til, A*pos"tille, n. Etym: [F. apostille. See Postil.]

Defn: A marginal note on a letter or other paper; an annotation.
Motley.

APOSTLE
A*pos"tle, n. Etym: [OE. apostle, apostel, postle, AS. apostol, L.
apostolus, fr. Gr. stellen to set, E. stall: cf. F. apôtre, Of.
apostre, apostle, apostele, apostole.]

1. Literally: One sent forth; a messenger. Specifically: One of the
twelve disciples of Christ, specially chosen as his companions and
witnesses, and sent forth to preach the gospel.
He called unto him his disciples, and of them he chose twelve, whom
also he named apostles. Luke vi. 13.

Note: The title of apostle is also applied to others, who, though not
of the number of the Twelve, yet were equal with them in office and
dignity; as, "Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ." 1 Cor.
i. 1. In Heb. iii. 1, the name is given to Christ himself, as having
been sent from heaven to publish the gospel. In the primitive church,
other ministers were called apostles (Rom. xvi. 7).

2. The missionary who first plants the Christian faith in any part of
the world; also, one who initiates any great moral reform, or first
advocates any important belief; one who has extraordinary success as
a missionary or reformer; as, Dionysius of Corinth is called the
apostle of France, John Eliot the apostle to the Indians, Theobald
Mathew the apostle of temperance.

3. (Civ. & Admiralty Law)

Defn: A brief letter dimissory sent by a court appealed from to the
superior court, stating the case, etc.; a paper sent up on appeals in
the admiralty courts. Wharton. Burrill. Apostles' creed, a creed of
unknown origin, which was formerly ascribed to the apostles. It
certainly dates back to the beginning of the sixth century, and some
assert that it can be found in the writings of Ambrose in the fourth
century.
 -- Apostle spoon (Antiq.), a spoon of silver, with the handle
terminating in the figure of an apostle. One or more were offered by
sponsors at baptism as a present to the godchild. B. Jonson.

APOSTLESHIP
A*pos"tle*ship, n.

Defn: The office or dignity of an apostle.

APOSTOLATE
A*pos"to*late, n. Etym: [L. apostolatus, fr. apostolus. See Apostle.]

1. The dignity, office, or mission, of an apostle; apostleship.
Judas had miscarried and lost his apostolate. Jer. Taylor.

2. The dignity or office of the pope, as the holder of the apostolic
see.

APOSTOLIC; APOSTOLICAL
Ap`os*tol"ic, Ap`os*tol"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. apostolicus, Gr.
apostolique.]

1. Pertaining to an apostle, or to the apostles, their times, or
their peculiar spirit; as, an apostolical mission; the apostolic age.

2. According to the doctrines of the apostles; delivered or taught by
the apostles; as, apostolic faith or practice.

3. Of or pertaining to the pope or the papacy; papal. Apostolical
brief. See under Brief.
 -- Apostolic canons, a collection of rules and precepts relating to
the duty of Christians, and particularly to the ceremonies and
discipline of the church in the second and third centuries.
 -- Apostolic church, the Christian church; -- so called on account
of its apostolic foundation, doctrine, and order. The churches of
Rome, Alexandria, Antioch, and Jerusalem were called apostolic
churches.
 -- Apostolic constitutions, directions of a nature similar to the
apostolic canons, and perhaps compiled by the same authors or author.
 -- Apostolic fathers, early Christian writers, who were born in the
first century, and thus touched on the age of the apostles. They were
Polycarp, Clement, Ignatius, and Hermas; to these Barnabas has
sometimes been added.
 -- Apostolic king (or majesty), a title granted by the pope to the
kings of Hungary on account of the extensive propagation of
Christianity by St. Stephen, the founder of the royal line. It is now
a title of the emperor of Austria in right of the throne of Hungary.
 -- Apostolic see, a see founded and governed by an apostle;
specifically, the Church of Rome; -- so called because, in the Roman
Catholic belief, the pope is the successor of St. Peter, the prince
of the apostles, and the only apostle who has successors in the
apostolic office.
 -- Apostolical succession, the regular and uninterrupted
transmission of ministerial authority by a succession of bishops from
the apostles to any subsequent period. Hook.

APOSTOLIC
Ap`os*tol"ic, n. Etym: [L. apostolicus.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A member of one of certain ascetic sects which at various times
professed to imitate the practice of the apostles.

APOSTOLICALLY
Ap`os*tol"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an apostolic manner.

APOSTOLICALNESS
Ap`os*tol"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: Apostolicity. Dr. H. More.

APOSTOLIC DELEGATE
Ap`os*tol"ic del"e*gate. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The diplomatic agent of the pope highest in grade, superior to
a nuncio.

APOSTOLICISM; APOSTOLICITY
Ap`os*tol"i*cism, A*pos`to*lic"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being apostolical.

APOSTROPHE
A*pos"tro*phe, n. Etym: [(1) L., fr. Gr. apostrophus apostrophe, the
turning away or omitting of a letter, Gr.

1. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of speech by which the orator or writer suddenly
breaks off from the previous method of his discourse, and addresses,
in the second person, some person or thing, absent or present; as,
Milton's apostrophe to Light at the beginning of the third book of
"Paradise Lost."

2. (Gram.)

Defn: The contraction of a word by the omission of a letter or
letters, which omission is marked by the character ['] placed where
the letter or letters would have been; as, call'd for called.

3. The mark ['] used to denote that a word is contracted (as in ne'er
for never, can't for can not), and as sign of the possessive,
singular and plural; as, a boy's hat, boys' hats. In the latter use
it originally marked the omission of the letter e.

Note: The apostrophe is used to mark the plural of figures and
letters; as, two 10's and three a's. It is also employed to mark the
close of a quotation.

APOSTROPHIC
Ap`os*troph"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an apostrophe, grammatical or rhetorical.

APOSTROPHIZE
A*pos"tro*phize, v. t., Etym: [imp. & p. p. Apostrophized; p. pr. &
vb. n. Apostrophizing.]

1. To address by apostrophe.

2. To contract by omitting a letter or letters; also, to mark with an
apostrophe (') or apostrophes.

APOSTROPHIZE
A*pos"tro*phize, v. i.

Defn: To use the rhetorical figure called apostrophe.

APOSTUME
Ap"os*tume, n.

Defn: See Aposteme. [Obs.]

APOTACTITE
Ap`o*tac"tite, n. Etym: [LL. pl. apotactitae, Gr. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect of ancient Christians, who, in supposed imitation
of the first believers, renounced all their possessions.

APOTELESM
A*pot"e*lesm, n. Etym: [See Apotelesmatic.]

1. The result or issue. [Obs.]

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: The calculation and explanation of a nativity. [Obs.] Bailey.

APOTELESMATIC
Ap`o*tel`es*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Relating to the casting of horoscopes. [Archaic] Whewell.

2. Relating to an issue of fulfillment.
In this way a passage in the Old Testament may have, or rather
comprise, an apotelesmatic sense, i. e., one of after or final
accomplishment. M. Stuart.

APOTHECARY
A*poth"e*ca*ry, n.; pl. Apothecaries. Etym: [OE. apotecarie, fr. LL.
apothecarius, fr. L. apotheca storehouse, Gr. apo, fr. apothicaire,
OF. apotecaire. See Thesis.]

Defn: One who prepares and sells drugs or compounds for medicinal
purposes.

Note: In England an apothecary is one of a privileged class of
practitioners -- a kind of sub-physician. The surgeon apothecary is
the ordinary family medical attendant. One who sells drugs and makes
up prescriptions is now commonly called in England a druggist or a
pharmaceutical chemist. Apothecaries' weight, the system of weights
by which medical prescriptions were formerly compounded. The pound
and ounce are the same as in Troy weight; they differ only in the
manner of subdivision. The ounce is divided into 8 drams, 24
scruples, 480 grains. See Troy weight.

APOTHECIUM
Apo`*the"ci*um, n.; pl. Apothecia. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: The ascigerous fructification of lichens, forming masses of
various shapes.

APOTHEGM; APOPHTHEGM
Ap"o*thegm, Ap"oph*thegm, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A short, pithy, and instructive saying; a terse remark,
conveying some important truth; a sententious precept or maxim.

Note: [Apothegm is now the prevalent spelling in the United States.]

APOTHEGMATIC; APOTHEGMATICAL
Ap`o*theg*mat"ic, Ap`o*theg*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to, or in the manner of, an apotghem; sententious;
pithy.

APOTHEGMATIST
Ap`o*theg"ma*tist, n.

Defn: A collector or maker of apothegms. Pope.

APOTHEGMATIZE
Ap`o*theg"ma*tize, v. i.

Defn: To utter apothegms, or short and sententious sayings.

APOTHEM
Ap"o*them, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Math.)

Defn: The perpendicular from the center to one of the sides of a
regular polygon.

2. A deposit formed in a liquid extract of a vegetable substance by
exposure to the air.

APOTHEOSIS
Ap`o*the"o*sis, n. pl. Apotheoses. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. The act of elevating a mortal to the rank of, and placing him
among, "the gods;" deification.

2. Glorification; exaltation. "The apotheosis of chivalry." Prescott.
"The noisy apotheosis of liberty and machinery." F. Harrison.

APOTHEOSIZE
Ap`o*the"o*size, v. t.

Defn: To exalt to the dignity of a deity; to declare to be a god; to
deify; to glorify.

APOTHESIS
A*poth"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. Apothecary.] (Arch.)
(a) A place on the south side of the chancel in the primitive
churches, furnished with shelves, for books, vestments, etc. Weale.
(b) A dressing room connected with a public bath.

APOTOME
A*pot"o*me, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Math.)

Defn: The difference between two quantities commensurable only in
power, as between sq. root2 and 1, or between the diagonal and side
of a square.

2. (Mus)

Defn: The remaining part of a whole tone after a smaller semitone has
been deducted from it; a major semitone. [Obs.]

APOZEM
Ap"o*zem, n. Etym: [L. apozema, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A decoction or infusion. [Obs.] Wiseman.

APOZEMICAL
Ap`o*zem"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a decoction. [Obs.] J. Whitaker.

APPAIR
Ap*pair", v. t. & i. Etym: [OF. empeirier, F. empire. See Impair.]

Defn: To impair; to grow worse. [Obs.]

APPALACHIAN
Ap`pa*la"chi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chain of mountains in the United States,
commonly called the Allegheny mountains.

Note: The name Appalachian was given to the mountains by the
Spaniards under De Soto, who derived it from the heighboring Indians.
Am. Cyc.

APPALL
Ap*pall", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appalled; p. pr. & vb. n. Appalling.]
Etym: [OF. appalir to grow pale, make pale; a (L. ad) + pâlir to grow
pale, to make pale, pâle pale. See Pale, a., and cf. Pall.]

1. To make pale; to blanch. [Obs.]
The answer that ye made to me, my dear, . . . Hath so appalled my
countenance. Wyatt.

2. To weaken; to enfeeble; to reduce; as, an old appalled wight.
[Obs.] Chaucer.
Whine, of its own nature, will not congeal and freeze, only it will
lose the strength, and become appalled in extremity of cold. Holland.

3. To depress or discourage with fear; to impress with fear in such a
manner that the mind shrinks, or loses its firmness; to overcome with
sudden terror or horror; to dismay; as, the sight appalled the
stoutest heart.
The house of peers was somewhat appalled at this alarum. Clarendon.

Syn.
 -- To dismay; terrify; daunt; frighten; affright; scare; depress.
See Dismay.

APPALL
Ap*pall", v. i.

1. To grow faint; to become weak; to become dismayed or discouraged.
[Obs.] Gower.

2. To lose flavor or become stale. [Obs.]

APPALL
Ap*pall", n.

Defn: Terror; dismay. [Poet.] Cowper.

APPALLING
Ap*pall"ing, a.

Defn: Such as to appall; as, an appalling accident.
 -- Ap*pall"ing*ly, adv.

APPALLMENT
Ap*pall"ment, n.

Defn: Depression occasioned by terror; dismay. [Obs.] Bacon.

APPANAGE
Ap"pa*nage, n. Etym: [F. apanage, fr. OF. apaner to nourish, support,
fr. LL. apanare to furnish with bread, to provision; L. ad + pains
bread.]

1. The portion of land assigned by a sovereign prince for the
subsistence of his younger sons.

2. A dependency; a dependent territory.

3. That which belongs to one by custom or right; a natural adjunct or
accompaniment. "Wealth . . . the appanage of wit." Swift.

APPANAGIST
Ap*pan"a*gist, n. Etym: [F. apanagiste.]

Defn: A prince to whom an appanage has been granted.

APPARAILLYNG
Ap*par"ail*lyng, n. Etym: [See Apparel, n. & v.]

Defn: Preparation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APPARATUS
Ap"pa*ratus, n.; pl. Apparatus, also rarely Apparatuses. Etym: [L.,
from apparare, apparatum, to prepare; ad + prepare to make ready.]

1. Things provided as means to some end.

2. Hence: A full collection or set of implements, or utensils, for a
given duty, experimental or operative; any complex instrument or
appliance, mechanical or chemical, for a specific action or
operation; machinery; mechanism.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: A collection of organs all of which unite in a common function;
as, the respiratory apparatus.

APPAREL
Ap*par"el, n. Etym: [OE. apparel, apareil, OF. apareil, appareil,
preparation, provision, furniture, OF. apareiller to match, prepare,
F. appareiller; OF. a (L. ad) + pareil like, similar, fr. LL.
pariculus, dim. of L. par equal. See Pair.]

1. External clothing; vesture; garments; dress; garb; external
habiliments or array.
Fresh in his new apparel, proud and young. Denham.
At public devotion his resigned carriage made religion appear in the
natural apparel of simplicity. Tatler.

2. A small ornamental piece of embroidery worn on albs and some other
ecclesiastical vestments.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: The furniture of a ship, as masts, sails, rigging, anchors,
guns, etc.

Syn.
 -- Dress; clothing; vesture; garments; raiment; garb; costume;
attire; habiliments.

APPAREL
Ap*par"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appareled, or Apparelled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Appareling, or Apparelling.] Etym: [OF. apareiller.]

1. To make or get (something) ready; to prepare. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To furnish with apparatus; to equip; to fit out.
Ships . . . appareled to fight. Hayward.

3. To dress or clothe; to attire.
They which are gorgeously appareled, and live delicately, are in
kings' courts. Luke vii. 25.

4. To dress with external ornaments; to cover with something
ornamental; to deck; to embellish; as, trees appareled with flowers,
or a garden with verdure.
Appareled in celestial light. Wordsworth.

APPARENCE
Ap*par"ence, n. Etym: [OF. aparence.]

Defn: Appearance. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APPARENCY
Ap*par"en*cy, n.

1. Appearance. [Obs.]

2. Apparentness; state of being apparent. Coleridge.

3. The position of being heir apparent.

APPARENT
Ap*par"ent, a. Etym: [F. apparent, L. apparens, -entis, p. pr. of
apparere. See Appear.]

1. Capable of being seen, or easily seen; open to view; visible to
the eye; within sight or view.
The moon . . . apparent queen. Milton.

2. Clear or manifest to the understanding; plain; evident; obvious;
known; palpable; indubitable.
It is apparent foul play. Shak.

3. Appearing to the eye or mind (distinguished from, but not
necessarily opposed to, true or real); seeming; as the apparent
motion or diameter of the sun.
To live on terms of civility, and even of apparent friendship.
Macaulay.
What Berkeley calls visible magnitude was by astronomers called
apparent magnitude. Reid.
Apparent horizon, the circle which in a level plain bounds our view,
and is formed by the apparent meeting of the earth and heavens, as
distinguished from the rational horizon.
 -- Apparent time. See Time.
 -- Heir apparent (Law), one whose to an estate is indefeasible if he
survives the ancestor; -- in distinction from presumptive heir. See
Presumptive.

Syn.
 -- Visible; distinct; plain; obvious; clear; certain; evident;
manifest; indubitable; notorious.

APPARENT
Ap*par"ent, n.

Defn: An heir apparent. [Obs.]
I'll draw it [the sword] as apparent to the crown. Shak.

APPARENTLY
Ap*par"ent*ly, adv.

1. Visibly. [Obs.] Hobbes.

2. Plainly; clearly; manifestly; evidently.
If he should scorn me so apparently. Shak.

3. Seemingly; in appearance; as, a man may be apparently friendly,
yet malicious in heart.

APPARENTNESS
Ap*par"ent*ness, n.

Defn: Plainness to the eye or the mind; visibleness; obviousness.
[R.] Sherwood.

APPARITION
Ap`pa*ri"tion, n. Etym: [F. apparition, L. apparitio, fr. apparere.
See Appear.]

1. The act of becoming visible; appearance; visibility. Milton.
The sudden apparition of the Spaniards. Prescott.
The apparition of Lawyer Clippurse occasioned much speculation in
that portion of the world. Sir W. Scott.

2. The thing appearing; a visible object; a form.
Which apparition, it seems, was you. Tatler.

3. An unexpected, wonderful, or preternatural appearance; a ghost; a
specter; a phantom. "The heavenly bands . . . a glorious apparition."
Milton.
I think it is the weakness of mine eyes
That shapes this monstrous apparition. Shak.

4. (Astron.)

Defn: The first appearance of a star or other luminary after having
been invisible or obscured; -- opposed to occultation. Circle of
perpetual apparition. See under Circle.

APPARITIONAL
Ap`pa*ri"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an apparition or to apparitions; spectral. "An
apparitional soul." Tylor.

APPARITOR
Ap*par"i*tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. apparere. See Appear.]

1. Formerly, an officer who attended magistrates and judges to
execute their orders.
Before any of his apparitors could execute the sentence, he was
himself summoned away by a sterner apparitor to the other world. De
Quincey.

2. (Law)

Defn: A messenger or officer who serves the process of an
ecclesiastical court. Bouvier.

APPAUME
Ap`pau`mé", n. Etym: [F. appaumé; (l. ad) + paume the palm, fr. L.
palma.] (Her.)

Defn: A hand open and extended so as to show the palm.

APPAY
Ap*pay", v. t. Etym: [OF. appayer, apaier, LL. appacare, appagare,
fr. L. ad + pacare to pacify, pax, pacis, peace. See Pay, Appease.]

Defn: To pay; to satisfy or appease. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

APPEACH
Ap*peach", v. t. Etym: [OE. apechen, for empechen, OF. empeechier, F.
empêcher, to hinder. See Impeach.]

Defn: To impeach; to accuse; to asperse; to inform against; to
reproach. [Obs.]
And oft of error did himself appeach. Spenser.

APPEACHER
Ap*peach"er, n.

Defn: An accuser. [Obs.] Raleigh.

APPEACHMENT
Ap*peach"ment, n.

Defn: Accusation. [Obs.]

APPEAL
Ap*peal", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appealed; p. pr. & vb. n. Appealing.]
Etym: [OE. appelen, apelen, to appeal, accuse, OF. appeler, fr. L.
appellare to approach, address, invoke, summon, call, name; akin to
appellere to drive to; ad + pellere to drive. See Pulse, and cf.
Peal.]

1. (Law)
(a) To make application for the removal of (a cause) from an inferior
to a superior judge or court for a rehearing or review on account of
alleged injustice or illegality in the trial below. We say, the cause
was appealed from an inferior court.
(b) To charge with a crime; to accuse; to institute a private
criminal prosecution against for some heinous crime; as, to appeal a
person of felony.

2. To summon; to challenge. [Archaic]
Man to man will I appeal the Norman to the lists. Sir W. Scott.

3. To invoke. [Obs.] Milton.

APPEAL
Ap*peal", v. t.

1. (Law)

Defn: To apply for the removal of a cause from an inferior to a
superior judge or court for the purpose of reëxamination of for
decision. Tomlins.
I appeal unto Cæsar. Acts xxv. 11.

2. To call upon another to decide a question controverted, to
corroborate a statement, to vindicate one's rights, etc.; as, I
appeal to all mankind for the truth of what is alleged. Hence: To
call on one for aid; to make earnest request.
I appeal to the Scriptures in the original. Horsley.
They appealed to the sword. Macaulay.

APPEAL
Ap*peal", n. Etym: [OE. appel, apel, OF. apel, F. appel, fr. appeler.
See Appeal, v. t.]

1. (Law)
(a) An application for the removal of a cause or suit from an
inferior to a superior judge or court for reëxamination or review.
(b) The mode of proceeding by which such removal is effected.
(c) The right of appeal.
(d) An accusation; a process which formerly might be instituted by
one private person against another for some heinous crime demanding
punishment for the particular injury suffered, rather than for the
offense against the public.
(e) An accusation of a felon at common law by one of his accomplices,
which accomplice was then called an approver. See Approvement.
Tomlins. Bouvier.

2. A summons to answer to a charge. Dryden.

3. A call upon a person or an authority for proof or decision, in
one's favor; reference to another as witness; a call for help or a
favor; entreaty.
A kind of appeal to the Deity, the author of wonders. Bacon.

4. Resort to physical means; recourse.
Every milder method is to be tried, before a nation makes an appeal
to arms. Kent.

APPEALABLE
Ap*peal"a*ble, a.

1. Capable of being appealed against; that may be removed to a higher
tribunal for decision; as, the cause is appealable.

2. That may be accused or called to answer by appeal; as, a criminal
is appealable for manslaughter. [Obs.]

APPEALANT
Ap*peal"ant, n.

Defn: An appellant. [Obs.] Shak.

APPEALER
Ap*peal"er, n.

Defn: One who makes an appeal.

APPEALING
Ap*peal"ing, a.

Defn: That appeals; imploring.
 -- Ap*peal"*ing*ly, adv.
 -- Ap*peal"ing*ness, n.

APPEAR
Ap*pear", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Appeared; p. pr. & vb. n. Appearing.]
Etym: [OE. apperen, aperen, OF. aparoir, F. apparoir, fr. L. appar to
appear + parto come forth, to be visible; prob. from the same root as
par to produce. Cf. Apparent, Parent, Peer, v. i.]

1. To come or be in sight; to be in view; to become visible.
And God . . . said, Let . . . the dry land appear. Gen. i. 9.

2. To come before the public; as, a great writer appeared at that
time.

3. To stand in presence of some authority, tribunal, or superior
person, to answer a charge, plead a cause, or the like; to present
one's self as a party or advocate before a court, or as a person to
be tried.
We must all appear before the judgment seat. * Cor. v. 10.
One ruffian escaped because no prosecutor dared to appear. Macaulay.

4. To become visible to the apprehension of the mind; to be known as
a subject of observation or comprehension, or as a thing proved; to
be obvious or manifest.
It doth not yet appear what we shall be. 1 John iii. 2.
Of their vain contest appeared no end. Milton.

5. To seem; to have a certain semblance; to look.
They disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast.
Matt. vi. 16.

Syn.
 -- To seem; look. See Seem.

APPEAR
Ap*pear", n.

Defn: Appearance. [Obs.] J. Fletcher.

APPEARANCE
Ap*pear"ance, n. Etym: [F. apparence, L. apparentia, fr. apparere.
See Appear.]

1. The act of appearing or coming into sight; the act of becoming
visible to the eye; as, his sudden appearance surprised me.

2. A thing seed; a phenomenon; a phase; an apparition; as, an
appearance in the sky.

3. Personal presence; exhibition of the person; look; aspect; mien.
And now am come to see . . . It thy appearance answer loud report.
Milton.

4. Semblance, or apparent likeness; external show. pl. Outward signs,
or circumstances, fitted to make a particular impression or to
determine the judgment as to the character of a person or a thing, an
act or a state; as, appearances are against him.
There was upon the tabernacle, as it were, the appearance of fire.
Num. ix. 15.
For man looketh on the outward appearance. 1 Sam. xvi. 7.
Judge not according to the appearance. John. vii. 24.

5. The act of appearing in a particular place, or in society, a
company, or any proceedings; a coming before the public in a
particular character; as, a person makes his appearance as an
historian, an artist, or an orator.
Will he now retire, After appearance, and again prolong Our
expectation Milton.

6. Probability; likelihood. [Obs.]
There is that which hath no appearance. Bacon.

7. (Law)

Defn: The coming into court of either of the parties; the being
present in court; the coming into court of a party summoned in an
action, either by himself or by his attorney, expressed by a formal
entry by the proper officer to that effect; the act or proceeding by
which a party proceeded against places himself before the court, and
submits to its jurisdiction. Burrill. Bouvier. Daniell. To put in an
appearance, to be present; to appear in person.
 -- To save appearances, to preserve a fair outward show.

Syn.
 -- Coming; arrival; presence; semblance; pretense; air; look;
manner; mien; figure; aspect.

APPEARER
Ap*pear"er, n.

Defn: One who appears. Sir T. Browne.

APPEARINGLY
Ap*pear"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: Apparently. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

APPEASABLE
Ap*peas"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being appeased or pacified; placable.
 -- Ap*peas"a*ble*ness, n.

APPEASE
Ap*pease", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appealed; p. pr. & vb. n. Appeasing.]
Etym: [OE. apesen, apaisen, OF. apaisier, apaissier, F. apaiser, fr.
a (L. ad) + OF. pais peace, F. paix, fr. L. pax, pacis. See Peace.]

Defn: To make quiet; to calm; to reduce to a state of peace; to
still; to pacify; to dispel (anger or hatred); as, to appease the
tumult of the ocean, or of the passions; to appease hunger or thirst.

Syn.
 -- To pacify; quiet; conciliate; propitiate; assuage; compose; calm;
allay; hush; soothe; tranquilize.

APPEASEMENT
Ap*pease"ment, n.

Defn: The act of appeasing, or the state of being appeased;
pacification. Hayward.

APPEASER
Ap*peas"er, n.

Defn: One who appeases; a pacifier.

APPEASIVE
Ap*pea"sive, a.

Defn: Tending to appease.

APPEL
Ap`pel", n. [F., prop., a call. See Appeal, n.] (Fencing)

Defn: A tap or stamp of the foot as a warning of intent to attack; --
called also attack.

APPELLABLE
Ap*pel"la*ble, a.

Defn: Appealable.

APPELLANCY
Ap*pel"lan*cy, n.

Defn: Capability of appeal.

APPELLANT
Ap*pel"lant, a. Etym: [L. appellans, p. pr. of appellare; cf. F.
appelant. See Appeal.]

Defn: Relating to an appeal; appellate. "An appellant jurisdiction."
Hallam. Party appellant (Law), the party who appeals; appellant; --
opposed to respondent, or appellee. Tomlins.

APPELLANT
Ap*pel"lant, n.

1. (Law)
(a) One who accuses another of felony or treason. [Obs.]
(b) One who appeals, or asks for a rehearing or review of a cause by
a higher tribunal.

2. A challenger. [Obs.] Milton.

3. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who appealed to a general council against the bull
Unigenitus.

4. One who appeals or entreats.

APPELLATE
Ap*pel"late, a. Etym: [L. appelatus, p. p. of appellare.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or taking cognizance of, appeals. "Appellate
jurisdiction." Blackstone. "Appellate judges." Burke. Appelate court,
a court having cognizance of appeals.

APPELLATE
Ap*pel"late, n.

Defn: A person or prosecuted for a crime. [Obs.] See Appellee.

APPELLATION
Ap`pel*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. appellatio, fr. appellare: cf. F.
appellation. See Appeal.]

1. The act of appealing; appeal. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. The act of calling by a name.

3. The word by which a particular person or thing is called and
known; name; title; designation.
They must institute some persons under the appellation of
magistrates. Hume.

Syn.
 -- See Name.

APPELLATIVE
Ap*pel"la*tive, a. Etym: [L. appellativus, fr. appellare: cf. F.
appelatif. See Appeal.]

1. Pertaining to a common name; serving as a distinctive
denomination; denominative; naming. Cudworth.

2. (gram.)

Defn: Common, as opposed to proper; denominative of a class.

APPELLATIVE
Ap*pel"la*tive, n. Etym: [L. appelativum, sc. nomen.]

1. A common name, distinction from a proper name. A common name, or
appellative, stands for a whole class, genus, or species of beings,
or for universal ideas. Thus, tree is the name of all plants of a
particular class; plant and vegetable are names of things that grow
out of the earth. A proper name, on the other hand, stands for a
single thing; as, Rome, Washington, Lake Erie.

2. An appellation or title; a descriptive name.
God chosen it for one of his appellatives to be the Defender of them.
Jer. Taylor.

APPELLATIVELY
Ap*pel"la*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: After the manner of nouns appellative; in a manner to express
whole classes or species; as, Hercules is sometimes used
appellatively, that is, as a common name, to signify a strong man.

APPELLATIVENESS
Ap*pel"la*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being appellative. Fuller.

APPELLATORY
Ap*pel"la*tory, a. Etym: [L. appellatorius, fr. appellare.]

Defn: Containing an appeal.
An appellatory libel ought to contain the name of the party
appellant. Ayliffe.

APPELLEE
Ap`pel*lee", n. Etym: [F. appelé, p. p. of appeler, fr. L.
appellare.] (Law)
(a) The defendant in an appeal; -- opposed to appellant.
(b) The person who is appealed against, or accused of crime; --
opposed to appellor. Blackstone.

APPELLOR
Ap`pel*lor, n. Etym: [OF. apeleur, fr. L. appellator, fr. appellare.]
(Law)
(a) The person who institutes an appeal, or prosecutes another for a
crime. Blackstone.
(b) One who confesses a felony committed and accuses his accomplices.
Blount. Burrill.

Note: This word is rarely or never used for the plaintiff in appeal
from a lower court, who is called the appellant. Appellee is opposed
both to appellant and appellor.

APPENAGE
Ap"pen*age, n.

Defn: See Appanage.

APPEND
Ap*pend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appended; p. pr. & vb. n. Appending.]
Etym: [L. appendere or F. appendre: cf. OE. appenden, apenden, to
belong, OF. apendre, F. appendre, fr. L. append, v. i., to hang to,
append, v. t., to hang to; ad + pend, v. i., to hang, pend, v. t., to
hang. See Pendant.]

1. To hang or attach to, as by a string, so that the thing is
suspended; as, a seal appended to a record; the inscription was
appended to the column.

2. To add, as an accessory to the principal thing; to annex; as,
notes appended to this chapter.
A further purpose appended to the primary one. I. Taylor.

APPENDAGE
Ap*pend"age, n.

1. Something appended to, or accompanying, a principal or greater
thing, though not necessary to it, as a portico to a house.
Modesty is the appendage of sobriety. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A subordinate or subsidiary part or organ; an external organ or
limb, esp. of the articulates.
Antennæ and other appendages used for feeling. Carpenter.

Syn.
 -- Addition; adjunct; concomitant.

APPENDAGED
Ap*pend"aged, a.

Defn: Furnished with, or supplemented by, an appendage.

APPENDANCE
Ap*pend"ance, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Something appendant.

APPENDANT
Ap*pend"ant, a. Etym: [F. appendant, p. pr. of appendre. See Append,
v. t.]

1. Hanging; annexed; adjunct; concomitant; as, a seal appendant to a
paper.
As they have transmitted the benefit to us, it is but reasonable we
should suffer the appendant calamity. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Law)

Defn: Appended by prescription, that is, a personal usage for a
considerable time; -- said of a thing of inheritance belonging to
another inheritance which is superior or more worthy; as, an
advowson, common, etc. , which may be appendant to a manor, common of
fishing to a freehold, a seat in church to a house. Wharton. Coke.

APPENDANT
Ap*pend"ant, n.

1. Anything attached to another as incidental or subordinate to it.

2. (Law)

Defn: A inheritance annexed by prescription to a superior
inheritance.

APPENDECTOMY; APPENDICECTOMY
Ap`pen*dec"to*my, Ap*pend`i*cec"to*my, n. [Appendix + Gr., fr.
excision.] (Surg.)

Defn: Excision of the vermiform appendix.

APPENDENCE; APPENDENCY
Ap*pend"ence, Ap*pend"en*cy, n.

Defn: State of being appendant; appendance. [Obs.]

APPENDICAL
Ap*pend"i*cal, a.

Defn: Of or like an appendix.

APPENDICATE
Ap*pend"i*cate, v. t.

Defn: To append. [Obs.]

APPENDICATION
Ap*pend`i*ca"tion, n.

Defn: An appendage. [Obs.]

APPENDICITIS
Ap*pend`i*ci"tis, n. (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the vermiform appendix.

APPENDICLE
Ap*pend"i*cle, n. Etym: [L. appendicula, dim. of. appendix.]

Defn: A small appendage.

APPENDICULAR
Ap`pen*dic"u*lar, a.

Defn: Relating to an appendicle; appendiculate. [R.]

APPENDICULARIA
Ap`pen*dic`u*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small free-swimming Tunicata, shaped somewhat like a
tadpole, and remarkable for resemblances to the larvæ of other
Tunicata. It is the type of the order Copelata or Larvalia. See
Illustration in Appendix.

APPENDICULATA
Ap`pen*dic`u*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of annelids; the Polychæta.

APPENDICULATE
Ap`pen*dic"u*late, a. Etym: [See Appendicle.]

Defn: Having small appendages; forming an appendage. Appendiculate
leaf, a small appended leaf. Withering.

APPENDIX
Ap*pen"dix, n.; pl. E. Appendixes, L. Appendices(#). Etym: [L.
appendix, -dicis, fr. appendere. See Append.]

1. Something appended or added; an appendage, adjunct, or
concomitant.
Normandy became an appendix to England. Sir M. Hale.

2. Any literary matter added to a book, but not necessarily essential
to its completeness, and thus distinguished from supplement, which is
intended to supply deficiencies and correct inaccuracies.

Syn.
 -- See Supplement.

APPENDIX VERMIFORMIS
Ap*pen"dix ver`mi*for"mis. [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: The vermiform appendix.

APPENSION
Ap*pen"sion, n.

Defn: The act of appending. [Obs.]

APPERCEIVE
Ap`per*ceive", v. t. Etym: [F. apercevoir, fr. L. ad + percipere,
perceptum, to perceive. See Perceive.]

Defn: To perceive; to comprehend. Chaucer.

APPERCEPTION
Ap`per*cep"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. ad- + perception: cf. F.
apperception.] (Metaph.)

Defn: The mind's perception of itself as the subject or actor in its
own states; perception that reflects upon itself; sometimes,
intensified or energetic perception. Leibnitz. Reid.
This feeling has been called by philosophers the apperception or
consciousness of our own existence. Sir W. Hamilton.

APPERIL
Ap*per"il, n.

Defn: Peril. [Obs.] Shak.

APPERTAIN
Ap`per*tain", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Appertained; p. pr. & vb. n.
Appertaining.] Etym: [OE. apperteinen, apertenen, OF. apartenir, F.
appartenir, fr. L. appertinere; ad + pertinere to reach to, belong.
See Pertain.]

Defn: To belong or pertain, whether by right, nature, appointment, or
custom; to relate.
Things appertaining to this life. Hooker.
Give it unto him to whom it appertaineth. Lev. vi. 5.

APPERTAINMENT
Ap`per*tain"ment, n.

Defn: That which appertains to a person; an appurtenance. [Obs. or
R.] Shak.

APPERTINANCE; APPERTINENCE
Ap*per"ti*nance, Ap*per"ti*nence, n.

Defn: See Appurtenance.

APPERTINENT
Ap*per"ti*nent, a.

Defn: Belonging; appertaining. [Now usually written appurtenant.]
Coleridge.

APPERTINENT
Ap*per"ti*nent, n.

Defn: That which belongs to something else; an appurtenant. [Obs.]
Shak.

APPETE
Ap*pete", v. t. Etym: [L. appetere: cf. F. appéter. See Appetite.]

Defn: To seek for; to desire. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APPETENCE
Ap"pe*tence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. appétence. See Appetency.]

Defn: A longing; a desire; especially an ardent desire; appetite;
appetency.

APPETENCY
Ap"pe*ten*cy, n.; pl. Appetencies. Etym: [L. appetentia, fr. appetere
to strive after, long for. See Appetite.]

1. Fixed and strong desire; esp. natural desire; a craving; an eager
appetite.
They had a strong appetency for reading. Merivale.

2. Specifically: An instinctive inclination or propensity in animals
to perform certain actions, as in the young to suck, in aquatic fowls
to enter into water and to swim; the tendency of an organized body to
seek what satisfies the wants of its organism.
These lacteals have mouths, and by animal selection or appetency the
absorb such part of the fluid as is agreeable to their palate. E.
Darwin.

3. Natural tendency; affinity; attraction; -- used of inanimate
objects.

APPETENT
Ap"pe*tent, a. Etym: [L. appetens, p. pr. of appetere.]

Defn: Desiring; eagerly desirous. [R.]
Appetent after glory and renown. Sir G. Buck.

APPETIBILITY
Ap`pe*ti*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. appétibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being desirable. Bramhall.

APPETIBLE
Ap"pe*ti*ble, a. Etym: [L. appetibilis, fr. appetere: cf. F.
appétible.]

Defn: Desirable; capable or worthy of being the object of desire.
Bramhall.

APPETITE
Ap"pe*tite, n. Etym: [OE. appetit, F. appétit, fr. L. appetitus, fr.
appetere to strive after, long for; ad + petere to seek. See
Petition, and cf. Appetence.]

1. The desire for some personal gratification, either of the body or
of the mind.
The object of appetite it whatsoever sensible good may be wished for;
the object of will is that good which reason does lead us to seek.
Hooker.

2. Desire for, or relish of, food or drink; hunger.
Men must have appetite before they will eat. Buckle.

3. Any strong desire; an eagerness or longing.
It God had given to eagles an appetite to swim. Jer. Taylor.
To gratify the vulgar appetite for the marvelous. Macaulay.

4. Tendency; appetency. [Obs.]
In all bodies there as an appetite of union. Bacon.

5. The thing desired. [Obs.]
Power being the natural appetite of princes. Swift.

Note: In old authors, appetite is followed by to or of, but regularly
it should be followed by for before the object; as, an appetite for
pleasure.

Syn.
 -- Craving; longing; desire; appetency; passion.

APPETITION
Ap`pe*ti"tion, n. Etym: [L. appetitio: cf. F. appétition.]

Defn: Desire; a longing for, or seeking after, something. Holland.

APPETITIVE
Ap"pe*ti"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. appétitif.]

Defn: Having the quality of desiring gratification; as, appetitive
power or faculty. Sir M. Hale.

APPETIZE
Ap"pe*tize, v. t.

Defn: To make hungry; to whet the appetite of. Sir W. Scott.

APPETIZER
Ap"pe*ti`zer, n.

Defn: Something which creates or whets an appetite.

APPETIZING
Ap"pe*ti`zing, a. Etym: [Cf. F. appétissant.]

Defn: Exciting appetite; as, appetizing food.
The appearance of the wild ducks is very appetizing. Sir W. Scott.

APPETIZING
Ap"pe*ti`zing, adv.

Defn: So as to excite appetite.

APPIAN
Ap"pi*an, a. Etym: [L. Appius, Appianus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Appius. Appian Way, the great paved highway
from ancient Rome trough Capua to Brundisium, now Brindisi,
constructed partly by Appius Claudius, about 312 b. c.

APPLAUD
Ap*plaud", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Applauded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Applauding.] Etym: [L. applaudere; ad + plaudere to clash, to clap
the hands: cf. F. applaudir. Cf. Explode.]

1. To show approval of by clapping the hands, acclamation, or other
significant sign.
I would applaud thee to the very echo, That should applaud again.
Shak.

2. To praise by words; to express approbation of; to commend; to
approve.
By the gods, I do applaud his courage. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To praise; extol; commend; cry up; magnify; approve. See Praise.

APPLAUD
Ap*plaud", v. i.

Defn: To express approbation loudly or significantly.

APPLAUDER
Ap*plaud"er, n.

Defn: One who applauds.

APPLAUSABLE
Ap*plaus"a*ble, a.

Defn: Worthy pf applause; praiseworthy. [Obs.]

APPLAUSE
Ap*plause", n. Etym: [L. applaudere, app. See Applaud.]

Defn: The act of applauding; approbation and praise publicly
expressed by clapping the hands, stamping or tapping with the feet,
acclamation, huzzas, or other means; marked commendation.
The brave man seeks not popular applause. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Acclaim; acclamation; plaudit; commendation; approval.

APPLAUSIVE
Ap*plau"sive, a. Etym: [LL. applausivus.]

Defn: Expressing applause; approbative.
 -- Ap*plau"sive*ly, adv.

APPLE
Ap"ple, n. Etym: [OE. appel, eppel, AS. æppel, æpl; akin to Fries. &
D. appel, OHG, aphul, aphol, G. apfel, Icel. epli, Sw. äple, Dan.
æble, Gael. ubhall, W. afal, Arm. aval, Lith. ob, Russ. iabloko; of
unknown origin.]

1. The fleshy pome or fruit of a rosaceous tree (Pyrus malus)
cultivated in numberless varieties in the temperate zones.

Note: The European crab apple is supposed to be the original kind,
from which all others have sprung.

2. (bot.)

Defn: Any tree genus Pyrus which has the stalk sunken into the base
of the fruit; an apple tree.

3. Any fruit or other vegetable production resembling, or supposed to
resemble, the apple; as, apple of love, or love apple (a tomato),
balsam apple, egg apple, oak apple.

4. Anything round like an apple; as, an apple of gold.

Note: Apple is used either adjectively or in combination; as, apple
paper or apple-paper, apple-shaped, apple blossom, apple dumpling,
apple pudding. Apple blight, an aphid which injures apple trees. See
Blight, n.
 -- Apple borer (Zoöl.), a coleopterous insect (Saperda candida or
bivittata), the larva of which bores into the trunk of the apple tree
and pear tree.
 -- Apple brandy, brandy made from apples.
 -- Apple butter, a sauce made of apples stewed down in cider.
Bartlett.
 -- Apple corer, an instrument for removing the cores from apples.
 -- Apple fly (Zoöl.), any dipterous insect, the larva of which
burrows in apples. Apple flies belong to the genera Drosophila and
Trypeta.
 -- Apple midge (Zoöl.) a small dipterous insect (Sciara mali), the
larva of which bores in apples.
 -- Apple of the eye, the pupil.
 -- Apple of discord, a subject of contention and envy, so called
from the mythological golden apple, inscribed "For the fairest,"
which was thrown into an assembly of the gods by Eris, the goddess of
discord. It was contended for by Juno, Minerva, and Venus, and was
adjudged to the latter.
 -- Apple of love, or Love apple, the tomato (Lycopersicum
esculentum).
 -- Apple of Peru, a large coarse herb (Nicandra physaloides) bearing
pale blue flowers, and a bladderlike fruit inclosing a dry berry.
 -- Apples of Sodom, a fruit described by ancient writers as
externally of air appearance but dissolving into smoke and ashes
plucked; Dead Sea apples. The name is often given to the fruit of
Solanum Sodomæum, a prickly shrub with fruit not unlike a small
yellow tomato.
 -- Apple sauce, stewed apples. [U. S.] -- Apple snail or Apple shell
(Zoöl.), a fresh-water, operculated, spiral shell of the genus
Ampullaria.
 -- Apple tart, a tart containing apples.
 -- Apple tree, a tree naturally bears apples. See Apple, 2.
 -- Apple wine, cider.
 -- Apple worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a small moth (Carpocapsa
pomonella) which burrows in the interior of apples. See Codling moth.
 -- Dead Sea Apple. (a) pl. Apples of Sodom. Also Fig. "To seek the
Dead Sea apples of politics." S. B. Griffin. (b) A kind of gallnut
coming from Arabia. See Gallnut.

APPLE
Ap"ple, v. i.

Defn: To grow like an apple; to bear apples. Holland.

APPLE-FACED
Ap"ple-faced`, a.

Defn: Having a round, broad face, like an apple. "Apple-faced
children." Dickens.

APPLE-JACK
Ap"ple-jack`, n.

Defn: Apple brandy. [U.S.]

APPLE-JOHN
Ap"ple-john`, n..

Defn: A kind of apple which by keeping becomes much withered; --
called also Johnapple. Shak.

APPLE PIE
Ap"ple pie`.

Defn: A pie made of apples (usually sliced or stewed) with spice and
sugar. Apple-pie bed, a bed in which, as a joke, the sheets are so
doubled (like the cover of an apple turnover) as to prevent any one
from getting at his length between them. Halliwell, Conybeare.
 -- Apple-pie order, perfect order or arrangement. [Colloq.]
Halliwell.

APPLE-SQUIRE
Ap"ple-squire`, n.

Defn: A pimp; a kept gallant. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

APPLIABLE
Ap*pli"a*ble, a. Etym: [See Apply.]

Defn: Applicable; also, compliant. [Obs.] Howell.

APPLIANCE
Ap*pli"ance, n.

1. The act of applying; application; [Obs.] subservience. Shak.

2. The thing applied or used as a means to an end; an apparatus or
device; as, to use various appliances; a mechanical appliance; a
machine with its appliances.

APPLICABILITY
Ap`pli*ca*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being applicable or fit to be applied.

APPLICABLE
Ap"pli*ca*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aplicable, fr. L. applicare. See
Apply.]

Defn: Capable of being applied; fit or suitable to be applied; having
relevance; as, this observation is applicable to the case under
consideration.
 -- Ap"pli*ca*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ap"pli*ca*bly, adv.

APPLICANCY
Ap"pli*can*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being applicable. [R.]

APPLICANT
Ap"pli*cant, n. Etym: [L. applicans, p. pr. of applicare. See Apply.]

Defn: One who apples for something; one who makes request; a
petitioner.
The applicant for a cup of water. Plumtre.
The court require the applicant to appear in person. Z. Swift.

APPLICATE
Ap"pli*cate, a. Etym: [L. applicatus, p. p. of applicare. See Apply.]

Defn: Applied or put to some use.
Those applicate sciences which extend the power of man over the
elements. I. Taylor.
Applicate number (Math.), one which applied to some concrete case.
 -- Applicate ordinate, right line applied at right angles to the
axis of any conic section, and bounded by the curve.

APPLICATE
Ap"pli*cate, v. i.

Defn: To apply. [Obs.]
The act of faith is applicated to the object. Bp. Pearson.

APPLICATION
Ap`pli*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. applicatio, fr. applicare: cf. F.
application. See Apply.]

1. The act of applying or laying on, in a literal sense; as, the
application of emollients to a diseased limb.

2. The thing applied.
He invented a new application by which blood might be stanched.
Johnson.

3. The act of applying as a means; the employment of means to
accomplish an end; specific use.
If a right course . . . be taken with children, there will not be
much need of the application of the common rewards and punishments.
Locke.

4. The act of directing or referring something to a particular case,
to discover or illustrate agreement or disagreement, fitness, or
correspondence; as, I make the remark, and leave you to make the
application; the application of a theory.

5. Hence, in specific uses: (a) That part of a sermon or discourse in
which the principles before laid down and illustrated are applied to
practical uses; the "moral" of a fable. (b) The use of the principles
of one science for the purpose of enlarging or perfecting another;
as, the application of algebra to geometry.

6. The capacity of being practically applied or used; relevancy; as,
a rule of general application.

7. The act of fixing the mind or closely applying one's self;
assiduous effort; close attention; as, to injure the health by
application to study.
Had his application been equal to his talents, his progress night
have been greater. J. Jay.

8. The act of making request of soliciting; as, an application for an
office; he made application to a court of chancery.

9. A request; a document containing a request; as, his application
was placed on file.

APPLICATIVE
Ap"pli*ca*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. applicatif, fr. L. applicare. See
Apply.]

Defn: Having of being applied or used; applying; applicatory;
practical. Bramhall.
 -- Ap"pli*ca*tive*ly, adv.

APPLICATORILY
Ap"pli*ca*to*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of application.

APPLICATORY
Ap"pli*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Having the property of applying; applicative; practical.
 -- n.

Defn: That which applies.

APPLIEDLY
Ap*pli"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: By application. [R.]

APPLIER
Ap*pli"er, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, applies.

APPLIMENT
Ap*pli"ment, n.

Defn: Application. [Obs.] Marston

APPLIQUE
Ap`pli`qué", a. Etym: [F., fr. appliquer to put on.]

Defn: Ornamented with a pattern (which has been cut out of another
color or stuff) applied or transferred to a foundation; as, appliqué
lace; appliqué work.

APPLOT
Ap*plot", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Applotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Applotting.]
Etym: [Pref. ad- + plot.]

Defn: To divide into plots or parts; to apportion. Milton.

APPLOTMENT
Ap*plot"ment, n.

Defn: Apportionment.

APPLY
Ap*ply", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Applied; p. pr. & vb. n. Applying.]
Etym: [OF. aplier, F. appliquer, fr. L. applicare to join, fix, or
attach to; ad + plicare to fold, to twist together. See Applicant,
Ply.]

1. To lay or place; to put or adjust (one thing to another); -- with
to; as, to apply the hand to the breast; to apply medicaments to a
diseased part of the body.
He said, and the sword his throat applied. Dryden.

2. To put to use; to use or employ for a particular purpose, or in a
particular case; to appropriate; to devote; as, to apply money to the
payment of a debt.

3. To make use of, declare, or pronounce, as suitable, fitting, or
relative; as, to apply the testimony to the case; to apply an epithet
to a person.
Yet God at last To Satan, first in sin, his doom applied. Milton.

4. To fix closely; to engage and employ diligently, or with
attention; to attach; to incline.
Apply thine heart unto instruction. Prov. xxiii. 12.

5. To direct or address. [R.]
Sacred vows . . . applied to grisly Pluto. Pope.

6. To betake; to address; to refer; -- used reflexively.
I applied myself to him for help. Johnson.

7. To busy; to keep at work; to ply. [Obs.]
She was skillful in applying his "humors." Sir P. Sidney.

8. To visit. [Obs.]
And he applied each place so fast. Chapman.
Applied chemistry. See under Chemistry.
 -- Applied mathematics. See under Mathematics.

APPLY
Ap*ply", v. i.

1. To suit; to agree; to have some connection, agreement, or analogy;
as, this argument applies well to the case.

2. To make request; to have recourse with a view to gain something;
to make application. (to); to solicit; as, to apply to a friend for
information.

3. To ply; to move. [R.]
I heard the sound of an oar applying swiftly through the water. T.
Moore.

4. To apply or address one's self; to give application; to attend
closely (to).

APPOGGIATURA
Ap*pog`gia*tu"ra, n. Etym: [It., fr. appogiarre to lean, to rest; ap-
(L. ad) + poggiare to mount, ascend, poggio hill, fr. L. podium an
elevated place.] (Mus.)

Defn: A passing tone preceding an essential tone, and borrowing the
time it occupies from that; a short auxiliary or grace note one
degree above or below the principal note unless it be of the same
harmony; -- generally indicated by a note of smaller size, as in the
illustration above. It forms no essential part of the harmony.

APPOINT
Ap*point", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appointed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Appointing.] Etym: [OE. appointen, apointen, OF. apointier to
prepare, arrange, lean, place, F. appointer to give a salary, refer a
cause, fr. LL. appunctare to bring back to the point, restore, to fix
the point in a controversy, or the points in an agreement; L. ad +
punctum a point. See Point.]

1. To fix with power or firmness; to establish; to mark out.
When he appointed the foundations of the earth. Prov. viii. 29.

2. To fix by a decree, order, command, resolve, decision, or mutual
agreement; to constitute; to ordain; to prescribe; to fix the time
and place of.
Thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shall
appoint. 2 Sam. xv. 15.
He hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in
righteousness. Acts xvii. 31.
Say that the emperor request a parley . . . and appoint the meeting.
Shak.

3. To assign, designate, or set apart by authority.
Aaron and his shall go in, and appoint them every one to his service.
Num. iv. 19.
These were cities appointed for all the children of Israel, and for
the stranger that sojourneth among them. Josh. xx. 9.

4. To furnish in all points; to provide with everything necessary by
way of equipment; to equip; to fit out.
The English, being well appointed, did so entertain them that their
ships departed terribly torn. Hayward.

5. To point at by way, or for the purpose, of censure or
commendation; to arraign. [Obs.]
Appoint not heavenly disposition. Milton.

6. (Law)

Defn: To direct, designate, or limit; to make or direct a new
disposition of, by virtue of a power contained in a conveyance; --
said of an estate already conveyed. Burrill. Kent. To appoint one's
self, to resolve. [Obs.] Crowley.

APPOINT
Ap*point", v. i.

Defn: To ordain; to determine; to arrange.
For the Lord had appointed to defeat the good counsel of Ahithoph2
Sam. xvii. 14.

APPOINTABLE
Ap*point"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being appointed or constituted.

APPOINTEE
Ap*point*ee", n. Etym: [F. appointé, p. p. of appointer. See Appoint,
v. t.]

1. A person appointed.
The commission authorizes them to make appointments, and pay the
appointees. Circular of Mass. Representatives (1768).

2. (law)

Defn: A person in whose favor a power of appointment is executed.
Kent. Wharton.

APPOINTER
Ap*point"er, n.

Defn: One who appoints, or executes a power of appointment. Kent.

APPOINTIVE
Ap*point"ive, a.

Defn: Subject to appointment; as, an appointive office. [R.]

APPOINTMENT
Ap*point"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. appointement.]

1. The act of appointing; designation of a person to hold an office
or discharge a trust; as, he erred by the appointment of unsuitable
men.

2. The state of being appointed to somappointment of treasurer.

3. Stipulation; agreement; the act of fixing by mutual agreement.
Hence:: Arrangement for a meeting; engagement; as, they made an
appointment to meet at six.

4. Decree; direction; established order or constitution; as, to
submit to the divine appointments.
According to the appointment of the priests. Ezra vi. 9.

5. (Law)

Defn: The exercise of the power of designating (under a "power of
appointment") a person to enjoy an estate or other specific property;
also, the instrument by which the designation is made.

6. Equipment, furniture, as for a ship or an army; whatever is
appointed for use and management; outfit; (pl.) the accouterments of
military officers or soldiers, as belts, sashes, swords.
The cavaliers emulated their chief in the richness of their
appointments. Prescott.
I'll prove it in my shackles, with these hands Void of appoinment,
that thou liest. Beau. & Fl.

7. An allowance to a person, esp. to a public officer; a perquisite;
-- properly only in the plural. [Obs.]
An expense proportioned to his appointments and fortune is necessary.
Chesterfield.

8. A honorary part or exercise, as an oration, etc., at a public
exhibition of a college; as, to have an appointment. [U.S.]

Syn.
 -- Designation; command; order; direction; establishment; equipment.

APPOINTOR
Ap*point*or", n. (Law)

Defn: The person who selects the appointee. See Appointee, 2.

APPORTER
Ap*por"ter, n. Etym: [Cf. F. apporter to bring in, fr. L. apportare;
ad + portare to bear.]

Defn: A bringer in; an importer. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

APPORTION
Ap*por"tion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Apportioned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Apportioning.] Etym: [OF. apportionner, LL. apportionare, fr. L. ad +
portio. See Portion.]

Defn: To divide and assign in just proportion; to divide and
distribute proportionally; to portion out; to allot; as, to apportion
undivided rights; to apportion time among various employments.

APPORTIONATENESS
Ap*por"tion*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being apportioned or in proportion. [Obs. & R.]

APPORTIONER
Ap*por"tion*er, n.

Defn: One who apportions.

APPORTIONMENT
Ap*por"tion*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. apportionnement, LL.
apportionamentum.]

Defn: The act of apportioning; a dividing into just proportions or
shares; a division or shares; a division and assignment, to each
proprietor, of his just portion of an undivided right or property. A.
Hamilton.

APPOSABLE
Ap*pos"a*ble, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Capable of being apposed, or applied one to another, as the
thumb to the fingers of the hand.

APPOSE
Ap*pose", v. t. Etym: [F. apposer to set to; ad) + poser to put,
place. See Pose.]

1. To place opposite or before; to put or apply (one thing to
another).
The nymph herself did then appose, For food and beverage, to him all
best meat. Chapman.

2. To place in juxtaposition or proximity.

APPOSE
Ap*pose", v. t. Etym: [For oppose. See Oppose.]

Defn: To put questions to; to examine; to try. [Obs.] See Pose.
To appose him without any accuser, and that secretly. Tyndale.

APPOSED
Ap*posed", a.

Defn: Placed in apposition; mutually fitting, as the mandibles of a
bird's beak.

APPOSER
Ap*pos"er, n.

Defn: An examiner; one whose business is to put questions. Formerly,
in the English Court of Exchequer, an officer who audited the
sheriffs' accounts.

APPOSITE
Ap"po*site, a. Etym: [L. appositus, p. p. of apponere to set or put
to; ad + ponere to put, place.]

Defn: Very applicable; well adapted; suitable or fit; relevant; pat;
-- followed by to; as, this argument is very apposite to the case.
 -- Ap"po*site*ly, adv.
 -- Ap"po*site*ness, n.

APPOSITION
Ap`po*si"tion, n. Etym: [L. appositio, fr. apponere: cf. F.
apposition. See Apposite.]

1. The act of adding; application; accretion.
It grows . . . by the apposition of new matter. Arbuthnot.

2. The putting of things in juxtaposition, or side by side; also, the
condition of being so placed.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: The state of two nouns or pronouns, put in the same case,
without a connecting word between them; as, I admire Cicero, the
orator. Here, the second noun explains or characterizes the first.
Growth by apposition (Physiol.), a mode of growth characteristic of
non vascular tissues, in which nutritive matter from the blood is
transformed on the surface of an organ into solid unorganized
substance.

APPOSITIONAL
Ap`po*si"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to apposition; put in apposition syntactically.
Ellicott.

APPOSITIVE
Ap*pos"i*tive, a.

Defn: Of or relating to apposition; in apposition.
 -- n.

Defn: A noun in apposition.
 -- Ap*pos"i*tive*ly, adv.
Appositive to the words going immediately before. Knatchbull.

APPRAISABLE
Ap*prais"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being appraised.

APPRAISAL
Ap*prais"al, n. Etym: [See Appraise. Cf. Apprizal.]

Defn: A valuation by an authorized person; an appraisement.

APPRAISE
Ap*praise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appraised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Appraising.] Etym: [Pref. ad- + praise. See Praise, Price, Apprize,
Appreciate.]

1. To set a value; to estimate the worth of, particularly by persons
appointed for the purpose; as, to appraise goods and chattels.

2. To estimate; to conjecture.
Enoch . . . appraised his weight. Tennyson.

3. To praise; to commend. [Obs.] R. Browning.
Appraised the Lycian custom. Tennyson.

Note: In the United States, this word is often pronounced, and
sometimes written, apprize.

APPRAISEMENT
Ap*praise"ment, n. Etym: [See Appraise. Cf. Apprizement.]

Defn: The act of setting the value; valuation by an appraiser;
estimation of worth.

APPRAISER
Ap*prais"er, n. Etym: [See Appraise, Apprizer.]

Defn: One who appraises; esp., a person appointed and sworn to
estimate and fix the value of goods or estates.

APPRECATION
Ap`pre*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. apprecari to pray to; ad + precari to
pray, prex, precis, prayer.]

Defn: Earnest prayer; devout wish. [Obs.]
A solemn apprecation of good success. Bp. Hall.

APPRECATORY
Ap"pre*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Praying or wishing good. [Obs.]"Apprecatory benedictions." Bp.
Hall.

APPRECIABLE
Ap*pre"ci*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. appréciable.]

Defn: Capable of being appreciated or estimated; large enough to be
estimated; perceptible; as, an appreciable quantity.
 -- Ap*pre"ci*a*bly, adv.

APPRECIANT
Ap*pre"ci*ant, a.

Defn: Appreciative. [R.]

APPRECIATE
Ap*pre"ci*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appreciated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Appreciating.] Etym: [L. appretiatus, p. p. of appretiare to value at
a price, appraise; ad + pretiare to prize, pretium price. Cf.
Appraise.]

1. To set a price or value on; to estimate justly; to value.
To appreciate the motives of their enemies. Gibbon.

3. To raise the value of; to increase the market price of; -- opposed
to depreciate. [U.S.]
Lest a sudden peace should appreciate the money. Ramsay.

4. To be sensible of; to distinguish.
To test the power of bappreciate color. Lubbock.

Syn.
 -- To Appreciate, Estimate, Esteem. Estimate is an act of judgment;
esteem is an act of valuing or prizing, and when applied to
individuals, denotes a sentiment of moral approbation. See Estimate.
Appreciate lies between the two. As compared with estimate, it
supposes a union of sensibility with judgment, producing a nice and
delicate perception. As compared with esteem, it denotes a valuation
of things according to their appropriate and distinctive excellence,
and not simply their moral worth. Thus, with reference to the former
of these (delicate perception), an able writer says. "Women have a
truer appreciation of character than men;" and another remarks, "It
is difficult to appreciate the true force and distinctive sense of
terms which we are every day using." So, also, we speak of the
difference between two things, as sometimes hardly appreciable. With
reference to the latter of these (that of valuation as the result of
a nice perception), we say, "It requires a peculiar cast of character
to appreciate the poetry of Wordsworth;" "He who has no delicacy
himself, can not appreciate it in others;" "The thought of death is
salutary, because it leads us to appreciate worldly things aright."
Appreciate is much used in cases where something is in danger of
being overlooked or undervalued; as when we speak of appreciating the
difficulties of a subject, or the risk of an undertaking. So Lord
Plunket, referring to an "ominous silence" which prevailed among the
Irish peasantry, says, "If you knew now to appreciate that silence,
it is more formidable than the most clamorous opposition." In like
manner, a person who asks some favor of another is apt to say, "I
trust you will appreciate my motives in this request." Here we have
the key to a very frequent use of the word. It is hardly necessary to
say that appreciate looks on the favorable side of things. we never
speak of appreciating a man's faults, but his merits. This idea of
regarding things favorably appears more fully in the word
appreciative; as when we speak of an appreciative audience, or an
appreciative review, meaning one that manifests a quick perception
and a ready valuation of excellence.

APPRECIATE
Ap*pre"ci*ate, v. i.

Defn: To rise in value. [See note under Rise, v. i.] J. Morse.

APPRECIATINGLY
Ap*pre"ci*a`ting*ly, adv.

Defn: In an appreciating manner; with appreciation.

APPRECIATION
Ap*pre`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. appréciation.]

1. A just valuation or estimate of merit, worth, weight, etc.;
recognition of excellence.

2. Accurate perception; true estimation; as, an appreciation of the
difficulties before us; an appreciation of colors.
His foreboding showed his appreciation of Henry's character. J. R.
Green.

3. A rise in value; -- opposed to depreciation.

APPRECIATIVE
Ap*pre"ci*a*tive, a.

Defn: Having or showing a just or ready appreciation or perception;
as, an appreciative audience.
 -- Ap*pre"ci*a*tive*ly, adv.

APPRECIATIVENESS
Ap*pre"ci*a*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being appreciative; quick recognition of
excellence.

APPRECIATOR
Ap*pre"ci*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who appreciates.

APPRECIATORY
Ap*pre"ci*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Showing appreciation; appreciative; as, appreciatory
commendation.
 -- Ap*pre"ci*a*to*ri*ly, adv.

APPREHEND
Ap`pre*hend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Apprehended; p. pr. & vb. n.
Apprehending.] Etym: [L. apprehendere; ad + prehendere to lay hold
of, seize; prae before + -hendere (used only in comp.); akin to Gr.
get: cf. F. appréhender. See Prehensile, Get.]

1. To take or seize; to take hold of. [Archaic]
We have two hands to apprehended it. Jer. Taylor.

2. Hence: To take or seize (a person) by legal process; to arrest;
as, to apprehend a criminal.

3. To take hold of with the understanding, that is, to conceive in
the mind; to become cognizant of; to understand; to recognize; to
consider.
This suspicion of Earl Reimund, though at first but a buzz, soon got
a sting in the king's head, and he violently apprehended it. Fuller.
The eternal laws, such as the heroic age apprehended them. Gladstone.

4. To know or learn with certainty. [Obs.]
G. You are too much distrustful of my truth. E. Then you must give me
leave to apprehend The means and manner how. Beau. & Fl.

5. To anticipate; esp., to anticipate with anxiety, dread, or fear;
to fear.
The opposition had more reason than the king to apprehend violence.
Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To catch; seize; arrest; detain; capture; conceive; understand;
imagine; believe; fear; dread.
 -- To Apprehend, Comprehend. These words come into comparison as
describing acts of the mind. Apprehend denotes the laying hold of a
thing mentally, so as to understand it clearly, at least in part.
Comprehend denotes the embracing or understanding it in all its
compass and extent. We may apprehended many truths which we do not
comprehend. The very idea of God supposes that he may be apprehended,
though not comprehended, by rational beings. "We may apprehended much
of Shakespeare's aim and intention in the character of Hamlet or King
Lear; but few will claim that they have comprehended all that is
embraced in these characters." Trench.

APPREHEND
Ap`pre*hend", v. i.

1. To think, believe, or be of opinion; to understand; to suppose.

2. To be apprehensive; to fear.
It is worse to apprehend than to suffer. Rowe.

APPREHENDER
Ap`pre*hend"er, n.

Defn: One who apprehends.

APPREHENSIBIITY
Ap`pre*hen`si*bi"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being apprehensible. [R.] De Quincey.

APPREHENSIBLE
Ap`pre*hen"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. apprehensibilis. See Apprehend.]

Defn: Capable of being apprehended or conceived. "Apprehensible by
faith." Bp. Hall.
 -- Ap`*pre*hen"si*bly, adv.

APPREHENSION
Ap`pre*hen"sion, n. Etym: [L. apprehensio: cf. F. appréhension. See
Apprehend.]

1. The act of seizing or taking hold of; seizure; as, the hand is an
organ of apprehension. Sir T. Browne.

2. The act of seizing or taking by legal process; arrest; as, the
felon, after his apprehension, escaped.

3. The act of grasping with the intellect; the contemplation of
things, without affirming, denying, or passing any judgment;
intellection; perception.
Simple apprehension denotes no more than the soul's naked
intellection of an object. Glanvill.

4. Opinion; conception; sentiment; idea.

Note: In this sense, the word often denotes a belief, founded on
sufficient evidence to give preponderation to the mind, but
insufficient to induce certainty; as, in our apprehension, the facts
prove the issue.
To false, and to be thought false, is all one in respect of men, who
act not according to truth, but apprehension. South.

5. The faculty by which ideas are conceived; understanding; as, a man
of dull apprehension.

6. Anticipation, mostly of things unfavorable; distrust or fear at
the prospect of future evil.
After the death of his nephew Caligula, Claudius was in no small
apprehension for his own life. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Apprehension, Alarm. Apprehension springs from a sense of danger
when somewhat remote, but approaching; alarm arises from danger when
announced as near at hand. Apprehension is calmer and more permanent;
alarm is more agitating and transient.

APPREHENSIVE
Ap`pre*hen"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. appréhensif. See Apprehend.]

1. Capable of apprehending, or quick to do so; apt; discerning.
It may be pardonable to imagine that a friend, a kind and
apprehensive . . . friend, is listening to our talk. Hawthorne.

2. Knowing; conscious; cognizant. [R.]
A man that has spent his younger years in vanity and folly, and is,
by the grace of God, apprehensive of it. Jer. Taylor.

3. Relating to the faculty of apprehension.
Judgment . . . is implied in every apprehensive act. Sir W. Hamilton.

4. Anticipative of something unfavorable' fearful of what may be
coming; in dread of possible harm; in expectation of evil.
Not at all apprehensive of evils as a distance. Tillotson.
Reformers . . . apprehensive for their lives. Gladstone.

5. Sensible; feeling; perceptive. [R.]
Thoughts, my tormentors, armed with deadly stings, Mangle my
apprehensive, tenderest parts. Milton.

APPREHENSIVELY
Ap`pre*hen"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an apprehensive manner; with apprehension of danger.

APPREHENSIVENESS
Ap`pre*hen"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being apprehensive.

APPRENTICE
Ap*pren"tice, n. Etym: [OE. apprentice, prentice, OF. aprentis, nom.
of aprentif, fr. apprendare to learn, L. apprendere, equiv. to
apprehendere, to take hold of (by the mind), to comprehend. See
Apprehend, Prentice.]

1. One who is bound by indentures or by legal agreement to serve a
mechanic, or other person, for a certain time, with a view to learn
the art, or trade, in which his master is bound to instruct him.

2. One not well versed in a subject; a tyro.

3. (Old law)

Defn: A barrister, considered a learner of law till of sixteen years'
standing, when he might be called to the rank of serjeant. [Obs.]
Blackstone.

APPRENTICE
Ap*pren"tice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Apprenticed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Apprenticing.]

Defn: To bind to, or put under the care of, a master, for the purpose
of instruction in a trade or business.

APPRENTICEAGE
Ap*pren"tice*age, n. Etym: [F. apprentissage.]

Defn: Apprenticeship. [Obs.]

APPRENTICEHOOD
Ap*pren"tice*hood, n.

Defn: Apprenticeship. [Obs.]

APPRENTICESHIP
Ap*pren"tice*ship, n.

1. The service or condition of an apprentice; the state in which a
person is gaining instruction in a trade or art, under legal
agreement.

2. The time an apprentice is serving (sometimes seven years, as from
the age of fourteen to twenty-one).

APPRESSED; APPREST
Ap*pressed", Ap*prest", a. Etym: [p. p. appress, which is not in use.
See Adpress.] (Bot.)

Defn: Pressed close to, or lying against, something for its whole
length, as against a stem, Gray.

APPRISE
Ap*prise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Apprised; p. pr. & vb. n. Apprising.]
Etym: [F. appris, fem. apprise, p. p. apprendre to learn, to teach,
to inform. Cf. Apprehend, Apprentice.]

Defn: To give notice, verbal or written; to inform; -- followed by
of; as, we will apprise the general of an intended attack; he
apprised the commander of what he had done.

APPRISE
Ap*prise", n.

Defn: Notice; information. [Obs.] Gower.

APPRIZAL
Ap*priz"al, n.

Defn: See Appraisal.

APPRIZE
Ap*prize", v. t. Etym: [The same as Appraise, only more accommodated
to the English form of the L. pretiare.]

Defn: To appraise; to value; to appreciate.

APPRIZEMENT
Ap*prize"ment, n.

Defn: Appraisement.

APPRIZER
Ap*priz"er, n.

1. An appraiser.

2. (Scots Law)

Defn: A creditor for whom an appraisal is made. Sir W. Scott.

APPROACH
Ap*proach", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Approached; p. pr. & vb. n.
Approaching.] Etym: [OE. approchen, aprochen, OF. approcher, LL.
appropriare, fr. L. ad + propiare to draw near, prope near.]

1. To come or go near, in place or time; to draw nigh; to advance
nearer.
Wherefore approached ye so nigh unto the city 2 Sam. xi. 20.
But exhorting one another; and so much the more, as ye see the day
approaching. Heb. x. 25.

2. To draw near, in a figurative sense; to make advances; to
approximate; as, he approaches to the character of the ablest
statesman.

APPROACH
Ap*proach", v. t.

1. To bring near; to cause to draw near; to advance. [Archaic] Boyle.

2. To come near to in place, time, or character; to draw nearer to;
as, to approach the city; to approach my cabin; he approached the age
of manhood.
He was an admirable poet, and thought even to have approached Homer.
Temple.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: To take approaches to.

APPROACH
Ap*proach", n. Etym: [Cf. F. approche. See Approach, v. i.]

1. The act of drawing near; a coming or advancing near. "The approach
of summer." Horsley.
A nearer approach to the human type. Owen.

2. A access, or opportunity of drawing near.
The approach to kings and principal persons. Bacon.

3. pl.

Defn: Movements to gain favor; advances.

4. A way, passage, or avenue by which a place or buildings can be
approached; an access. Macaulay.

5. pl. (Fort.)

Defn: The advanced works, trenches, or covered roads made by
besiegers in their advances toward a fortress or military post.

6. (Hort.)

Defn: See Approaching.

APPROACHABILITY
Ap*proach`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being approachable; approachableness.

APPROACHABLE
Ap*proach"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being approached; accessible; as, approachable
virtue.

APPROACHABLENESS
Ap*proach"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being approachable; accessibility.

APPROACHER
Ap*proach"er, n.

Defn: One who approaches.

APPROACHING
Ap*proach"ing, n. (Hort.)

Defn: The act of ingrafting a sprig or shoot of one tree into
another, without cutting it from the parent stock; -- called, also,
inarching and grafting by approach.

APPROACHLESS
Ap*proach"less, a.

Defn: Impossible to be approached.

APPROACHMENT
Ap*proach"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. approachement.]

Defn: Approach. [Archaic] Holland.

APPROBATE
Ap"pro*bate, a. Etym: [L. approbatus, p. p. of approbare to approve.]

Defn: Approved. [Obs.] Elyot.

APPROBATE
Ap"pro*bate, v. t.

Defn: To express approbation of; to approve; to sanction officially.
I approbate the one, I reprobate the other. Sir W. Hamilton.

Note: This word is obsolete in England, but is occasionally heard in
the United States, chiefly in a technical sense for license; as, a
person is approbated to preach; approbated to keep a public house.
Pickering (1816).

APPROBATION
Ap`pro*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. approbatio: cf. F. approbation. See
Approve to prove.]

1. Proof; attestation. [Obs.] Shak.

2. The act of approving; an assenting to the propriety of a thing
with some degree of pleasure or satisfaction; approval; sanction;
commendation.
Many . . . joined in a loud hum of approbation. Macaulay.
The silent approbation of one's own breast. Melmoth.
Animals . . . love approbation or praise. Darwin.

3. Probation or novitiate. [Obs.]
This day my sister should the cloister enter, And there receive her
approbation. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Approval; liking; sanction; consent; concurrence.
 -- Approbation, Approval. Approbation and approval have the same
general meaning, assenting to or declaring as good, sanction,
commendation; but approbation is stronger and more positive. "We may
be anxious for the approbation of our friends; but we should be still
more anxious for the approval of our own consciences." "He who is
desirous to obtain universal approbation will learn a good lesson
from the fable of the old man and his ass." "The work has been
examined by several excellent judges, who have expressed their
unqualified approval of its plan and execution."

APPROBATIVE
Ap"pro*ba*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. approbatif.]

Defn: Approving, or implying approbation. Milner.

APPROBATIVENESS
Ap"pro*ba*tive*ness, n.

1. The quality of being approbative.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: Love of approbation.

APPROBATOR
Ap"pro*ba`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who approves. [R.]

APPROBATORY
Ap"pro*ba`to*ry, a.

Defn: Containing or expressing approbation; commendatory. Sheldon.

APPROMT
Ap*promt", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + promt.]

Defn: To quicken; to prompt. [Obs.]
To appromt our invention. Bacon.

APPROOF
Ap*proof", n. Etym: [See Approve, and Proof.]

1. Trial; proof. [Archaic] Shak.

2. Approval; commendation. Shak.

APPROPINQUATE
Ap`pro*pin"quate, v. i. Etym: [L. appropinquatus, p. p. of
appropinquare; ad + prope near.]

Defn: To approach. [Archaic] Ld. Lytton.

APPROPINQUATION
Ap`pro*pin*qua"tion, n. Etym: [L. appropinquatio.]

Defn: A drawing nigh; approach. [R.] Bp. Hall.

APPROPINQUITY
Ap`pro*pin"qui*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. ad- + propinquity.]

Defn: Nearness; propinquity. [R.] J. Gregory.

APPROPRE
Ap*pro"pre, v. t. Etym: [OE. appropren, apropren, OF. approprier, fr.
L. appropriare. See Appropriate.]

Defn: To appropriate. [Obs.] Fuller.

APPROPRIABLE
Ap*pro"pri*a*ble, a. Etym: [See Appropriate.]

Defn: Capable of being appropriated, set apart, sequestered, or
assigned exclusively to a particular use. Sir T. Browne.

APPROPRIAMENT
Ap*pro"pri*a*ment, n.

Defn: What is peculiarly one's own; peculiar qualification.[Obs.]
If you can neglect Your own appropriaments. Ford.

APPROPRIATE
Ap*pro"pri*ate, a. Etym: [L. appropriatus, p. p. of appropriare; ad +
propriare to appropriate, fr. proprius one's own, proper. See
Proper.]

Defn: Set apart for a particular use or person. Hence: Belonging
peculiarly; peculiar; suitable; fit; proper.
In its strict and appropriate meaning. Porteus.
Appropriate acts of divine worship. Stillingfleet.
It is not at all times easy to find words appropriate to express our
ideas. Locke.

APPROPRIATE
Ap*pro"pri*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appropriated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Appropriating.]

1. To take to one's self in exclusion of others; to claim or use as
by an exclusive right; as, let no man appropriate the use of a common
benefit.

2. To set apart for, or assign to, a particular person or use, in
exclusion of all others; -- with to or for; as, a spot of ground is
appropriated for a garden; to appropriate money for the increase of
the navy.

3. To make suitable; to suit. [Archaic] Paley.

4. (Eng. Eccl. Law)

Defn: To annex, as a benefice, to a spiritual corporation, as its
property. Blackstone.

APPROPRIATE
Ap*pro"pri*ate, n.

Defn: A property; attribute. [Obs.]

APPROPRIATELY
Ap*pro"pri*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an appropriate or proper manner; fitly; properly.

APPROPRIATENESS
Ap*pro"pri*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being appropriate; peculiar fitness.
Froude.

APPROPRIATION
Ap*pro`pri*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. appropriatio: cf. F. appropriation.]

1. The act of setting apart or assigning to a particular use or
person, or of taking to one's self, in exclusion of all others;
application to a special use or purpose, as of a piece of ground for
a park, or of money to carry out some object.

2. Anything, especially money, thus set apart.
The Commons watched carefully over the appropriation. Macaulay.

3. (Law)
(a) The severing or sequestering of a benefice to the perpetual use
of a spiritual corporation. Blackstone.
(b) The application of payment of money by a debtor to his creditor,
to one of several debts which are due from the former to the latter.
Chitty.

APPROPRIATIVE
Ap*pro"pri*a*tive, a.

Defn: Appropriating; making, or tending to, appropriation; as, an
appropriative act.
 -- Ap*pro"pri*a*tive*ness, n.

APPROPRIATOR
Ap*pro"pri*a`tor, n.

1. One who appropriates.

2. (Law)

Defn: A spiritual corporation possessed of an appropriated benefice;
also, an impropriator.

APPROVABLE
Ap*prov"a*ble, a.

Defn: Worthy of being approved; meritorious.
 -- Ap*prov"a*ble*ness, n.

APPROVAL
Ap*prov"al, n.

Defn: Approbation; sanction.
A censor . . . without whose approval nTemple.

Syn.
 -- See Approbation.

APPROVANCE
Ap*prov"ance, n.

Defn: Approval. [Archaic] Thomson.

APPROVE
Ap*prove", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Approved; p. pr. & vb. n. Approving.]
Etym: [OE. aproven, appreven, to prove, OF. aprover, F. approuver, to
approve, fr. L. approbare; ad + probare to esteem as good, approve,
prove. See Prove, and cf. Approbate.]

1. To show to be real or true; to prove. [Obs.]
Wouldst thou approve thy constancy Approve First thy obedience.
Milton.

2. To make proof of; to demonstrate; to prove or show practically.
Opportunities to approve . . . worth. Emerson.
He had approved himself a great warrior. Macaulay.
'T is an old lesson; Time approves it true. Byron.
His account . . . approves him a man of thought. Parkman.

3. To sanction officially; to ratify; to confirm; as, to approve the
decision of a court-martial.

4. To regard as good; to commend; to be pleased with; to think well
of; as, we approve the measured of the administration.

5. To make or show to be worthy of approbation or acceptance.
The first care and concern must be to approve himself to God. Rog

Note: This word, when it signifies to be pleased with, to think
favorably (of), is often followed by of.
They had not approved of the deposition of James. Macaulay.
They approved of the political institutions. W. Black.

APPROVE
Ap*prove", v. t. Etym: [OF. aprouer; (L. ad) + a form apparently
derived fr. the pro, prod, in L. prodest it is useful or profitable,
properly the preposition pro for. Cf. Improve.] (Eng. Law)

Defn: To make profit of; to convert to one's own profit; said esp. of
waste or common land appropriated by the lord of the manor.

APPROVEDLY
Ap*prov"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to secure approbation; in an approved manner.

APPROVEMENT
Ap*prove"ment, n. [Obs.]

1. Approbation.
I did nothing without your approvement. Hayward.

2. (Eng. Law)

Defn: a confession of guilt by a prisoner charged with treason or
felony, together with an accusation of his accomplish and a giving
evidence against them in order to obtain his own pardon. The term is
no longer in use; it corresponded to what is now known as turning
king's (or queen's) evidence in England, and state's evidence in the
United States. Burrill. Bouvier.

APPROVEMENT
Ap*prove"ment, n. (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: Improvement of common lands, by inclosing and converting them
to the uses of husbandry for the advantage of the lord of the manor.
Blackstone.

APPROVER
Ap*prov"er, n.

1. One who approves. Formerly, one who made proof or trial.

2. An informer; an accuser. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. (Eng. Law)

Defn: One who confesses a crime and accuses another. See 1st
Approvement, 2.

APPROVER
Ap*prov"er, n. Etym: [See 2d Approve, v. t.] (Eng. Law)

Defn: A bailiff or steward; an agent. [Obs.] Jacobs.

APPROVING
Ap*prov"ing, a.

Defn: Expressing approbation; commending; as, an approving smile.
 -- Ap*prov"ing*ly, adv.

APPROXIMATE
Ap*prox"i*mate, a. Etym: [L. approximatus, p. p. of approximare to
approach; ad + proximare to come near. See Proximate.]

1. Approaching; proximate; nearly resembling.

2. Near correctness; nearly exact; not perfectly accurate; as,
approximate results or values. Approximate quantities (Math.), those
which are nearly, but not, equal.

APPROXIMATE
Ap*prox"i*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Approximated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Approximating.]

1. To carry or advance near; to cause to approach.
To approximate the inequality of riches to the level of nature.
Burke.

2. To come near to; to approach.
The telescope approximates perfection. J. Morse.

APPROXIMATE
Ap*prox"i*mate, v. i.

Defn: To draw; to approach.

APPROXIMATELY
Ap*prox"i*mate*ly, adv.

Defn: With approximation; so as to approximate; nearly.

APPROXIMATION
Ap*prox`i*ma"tion. n. Etym: [Cf. F. approximation, LL. approximatio.]

1. The act of approximating; a drawing, advancing or being near;
approach; also, the result of approximating.
The largest capacity and the most noble dispositions are but an
approximation to the proper standard and true symmetry of human
nature. I. Taylor.

2. An approach to a correct estimate, calculation, or conception, or
to a given quantity, quality, etc.

3. (Math.)
(a) A continual approach or coming nearer to a result; as, to solve
an equation by approximation.
(b) A value that is nearly but not exactly correct.

APPROXIMATIVE
Ap*prox"i*ma*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. approximatif.]

Defn: Approaching; approximate.
 -- Ap*prox"i*ma*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Ap*prox"i*ma*tive*ness, n.

APPROXIMATOR
Ap*prox"i*ma`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, approximates.

APPUI
Ap`pui", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. ad + podium foothold, Gr.

Defn: A support or supporter; a stay; a prop. [Obs.]
If a be to climb trees that are of any great height, there would be
stays and appuies set to it. Holland.
Point d'appui. Etym: [F., a point of support.] (Mil.) (a) A given
point or body, upon which troops are formed, or by which are marched
in line or column. (b) An advantageous defensive support, as a
castle, morass, wood, declivity, etc.

APPULSE
Ap"pulse, n. Etym: [L. appulsus, fr. appellere, appulsum, to drive
to; ad + pellere to drive: cf. F. appulse.]

1. A driving or running towards; approach; impulse; also, the act of
striking against.
In all consonants there is an appulse of the organs. Holder.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The near approach of one heavenly body to another, or to the
meridian; a coming into conjunction; as, the appulse of the moon to a
star, or of a star to the meridian.

APPULSION
Ap*pul"sion, n.

Defn: A driving or striking against; an appulse.

APPULSIVE
Ap*pul"sive, a.

Defn: Striking against; impinging; as, the appulsive influence of the
planets. P. Cyc.

APPULSIVELY
Ap*pul"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: By appulsion.

APPURTENANCE
Ap*pur"te*nance, n. Etym: [OF. apurtenaunce, apartenance, F.
appartenance, LL. appartenentia, from L. appertinere. See Appertain.]

Defn: That which belongs to something else; an adjunct; an appendage;
an accessory; something annexed to another thing more worthy; in
common parlance and legal acceptation, something belonging to another
thing as principal, and which passes as incident to it, as a right of
way, or other easement to land; a right of common to pasture, an
outhouse, barn, garden, or orchard, to a house or messuage. In a
strict legal sense, land can never pass as an appurtenance to land.
Tomlins. Bouvier. Burrill.
Globes . . . provided as appurtenances to astronomy. Bacon.
The structure of the eye, and of its appurtenances. Reid.

APPURTENANT
Ap*pur"te*nant, a. Etym: [F. appartenant, p. pr. of appartenir. See
Appurtenance.]

Defn: Annexed or pertaining to some more important thing; accessory;
incident; as, a right of way appurtenant to land or buildings.
Blackstone. Common appurtenatn. (Law) See under Common, n.

APPURTENANT
Ap*pur"te*nant, n,

Defn: Something which belongs or appertains to another thing; an
appurtenance.
Mysterious appurtenants and symbols of redemption. Coleridge.

APRICATE
Ap"ri*cate, v. t. & i. Etym: [L. apricatus, p. p. of apricare, fr.
apricus exposed to the sun, fr. aperire to uncover, open.]

Defn: To bask in the sun. Boyle.

APRICATION
Ap`ri*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Basking in the sun. [R.]

APRICOT
A"pri*cot, n. Etym: [OE. apricock, abricot, F. abricot, fr. Sp.
albaricoque or Pg. albricoque, fr. Ar. albirq, al-burq. Though the E.
and F. form abricot is derived from the Arabic through the Spanish,
yet the Arabic word itself was formed from the Gr. praecoquus,
praecox, early ripe. The older E. form apricock was prob. taken
direct from Pg. See Precocious, Cook.] (Bot.)

Defn: A fruit allied to the plum, of an orange color, oval shape, and
delicious taste; also, the tree (Prunus Armeniaca of Linnæus) which
bears this fruit. By cultivation it has been introduced throughout
the temperate zone.

APRIL
A"pril, n. Etym: [L. Aprilis. OE. also Averil, F. Avril, fr. L.
Aprilis.]

1. The fourth month of the year.

2. Fig.: With reference to April being the month in which vegetation
begins to put forth, the variableness of its weather, etc.
The April's her eyes; it is love's spring. Shak.
April fool, one who is sportively imposed upon by others on the first
day of April.

A PRIORI
A` pri*o"ri. Etym: [L. a (ab) + prior former.]

1. (Logic)

Defn: Characterizing that kind of reasoning which deduces
consequences from definitions formed, or principles assumed, or which
infers effects from causes previously known; deductive or
deductively. The reverse of a posteriori.

3. (Philos.)

Defn: Applied to knowledge and conceptions assumed, or presupposed,
as prior to experience, in order to make experience rational or
possible.
A priori, that is, form these necessities of the mind or forms of
thinking, which, though first revealed to us by experience, must yet
have preëxisted in order to make experience possible. Coleridge.

APRIORISM
A`pri*o"rism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. apriorisme.]

Defn: An a priori principle.

APRIORITY
A`pri*or"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being innate in the mind, or prior to
experience; a priori reasoning.

APROCTA
A*proc"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Turbellaria in which there is no anal aperture.

APROCTOUS
A*proc"tous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without an anal office.

APRON
A"pron, n. Etym: [OE. napron, OF. naperon, F. napperon, dim. of OF.
nape, F. nappe, cloth, tablecloth, LL. napa, fr. L. mappa, napkin,
table napkin. See Map.]

1. An article of dress, of cloth, leather, or other stuff, worn on
the fore part of the body, to keep the clothes clean, to defend them
from injury, or as a covering. It is commonly tied at the waist by
strings.

2. Something which by its shape or use suggests an apron; as, (a) The
fat skin covering the belly of a goose or duck. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.
(b) A piece of leather, or other material, to be spread before a
person riding on an outside seat of a vehicle, to defend him from the
rain, snow, or dust; a boot. "The weather being too hot for the
apron." Hughes.
(c) (Gun.) A leaden plate that covers the vent of a cannon.
(d) (Shipbuilding) A piece of carved timber, just above the foremost
end of the keel. Totten.
(e) A platform, or flooring of plank, at the entrance of a dock,
against which the dock gates are shut.
(f) A flooring of plank before a dam to cause the water to make a
gradual descent.
(g) (Mech.) The piece that holds the cutting tool of a planer.
(h) (Plumbing) A strip of lead which leads the drip of a wall into a
gutter; a flashing.
(i) (Zoöl.) The infolded abdomen of a crab.

APRONED
A"proned, a.

Defn: Wearing an apron.
A cobbler aproned, and a parson gowned. Pope.

APRONFUL
A"pron*ful, n.; pl. Apronfuls.

Defn: The quality an apron can hold.

APRONLESS
A"pron*less, a.

Defn: Without an apron.

APRON MAN
A"pron man`.

Defn: A man who wears an apron; a laboring man; a mechanic. [Obs.]
Shak.

APRON STRING
A"pron string`.

Defn: The string of an apron. To be tied to a wife's or mother's
apron strings, to be unduly controlled by a wife or mother.
He was so made that he could not submit to be tied to the apron
strings even of the best of wives. Macaulay.

APROPOS
Ap"ro*pos`, a. & adv. Etym: [F. ad) + propos purpose, L. proposium
plan, purpose, fr. proponere to propose. See Propound.]

1. Opportunely or opportune; seasonably or seasonable.
A tale extremely apropos. Pope.

2. By the way; to the purpose; suitably to the place or subject; -- a
word used to introduce an incidental observation, suited to the
occasion, though not strictly belonging to the narration.

APSE
Apse, n.; pl. Apses. [See Apsis.]

1. (Arch.)
(a) A projecting part of a building, esp. of a church, having in the
plan a polygonal or semicircular termination, and, most often,
projecting from the east end. In early churches the Eastern apse was
occupied by seats for the bishop and clergy. Hence:
(b) The bishop's seat or throne, in ancient churches.

2. A reliquary, or case in which the relics of saints were kept.

Note: This word is also written apsis and absis.

APSIDAL
Ap"si*dal, a.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the apsides of an orbit.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the apse of a church; as, the apsidal
termination of the chancel.

APSIDES
Ap"si*des, n. pl.

Defn: See Apsis.

APSIS
Ap"sis, n.; pl. Apsides. See Apse. Etym: [L. apsis, absis, Gr.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the two points of an orbit, as of a planet or satellite,
which are at the greatest and least distance from the central body,
corresponding to the aphelion and perihelion of a planet, or to the
apogee and perigee of the moon. The more distant is called the higher
apsis; the other, the lower apsis; and the line joining them, the
line of apsides.

2. (Math.)

Defn: In a curve referred to polar coördinates, any point for which
the radius vector is a maximum or minimum.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Apse.

APT
Apt, a Etym: [F. apte, L. aptus, fr. obsolete apere to fasten, to
join, to fit, akin to apisci to reach, attain: cf. Gr. apta fit, fr.
ap to reach attain.]

1. Fit or fitted; suited; suitable; appropriate.
They have always apt instruments. Burke.
A river . . . apt to be forded by a lamb. Jer. Taylor.

2. Having an habitual tendency; habitually liable or likely; -- used
of things.
My vines and peaches . . . were apt to have a soot or smuttiness upon
their leaves and fruit. Temple.
This tree, if unprotected, is apt to be stripped of the leaves by a
leaf-cutting ant. Lubbock.

3. Inclined; disposed customarily; given; ready; -- used of persons.
Apter to give than thou wit be to ask. Beau. & Fl.
That lofty pity with which prosperous folk are apt to remember their
grandfathers. F. Harrison.

4. Ready; especially fitted or qualified (to do something); quick to
learn; prompt; expert; as, a pupil apt to learn; an apt scholar. "An
apt wit." Johnson.
Live a thousand years, I shall not find myself so apt to die. Shak.
I find thee apt . . . Now, Hamlet, hear. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Fit; meet; suitable; qualified; inclined; disposed; liable;
ready; quick; prompt.

APT
Apt, v. t. Etym: [L. aptare. See Aptate.]

Defn: To fit; to suit; to adapt. [Obs.] " To apt their places." B.
Jonson.
That our speech be apted to edification. Jer. Taylor.

APTABLE
Apt"a*ble, a. Etym: [LL. aptabilis, fr. L. aptare.]

Defn: Capable of being adapted. [Obs.] Sherwood.

APTATE
Ap"tate, v. t. Etym: [L. aptatus, p. p. of aptare. See Apt.]

Defn: To make fit. [Obs.] Bailey

APTERA
Ap"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. aptera, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Insects without wings, constituting the seventh Linnæn order of
insects, an artificial group, which included Crustacea, spiders,
centipeds, and even worms. These animals are now placed in several
distinct classes and orders.

APTERAL
Ap"ter*al, a.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Apterous.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Without lateral columns; -- applied to buildings which have no
series of columns along their sides, but are either prostyle or
amphiprostyle, and opposed to peripteral. R. Cyc.

APTERAN
Ap"ter*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Aptera.

APTERIA
Ap*te"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Aptera.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Naked spaces between the feathered areas of birds. See
Pteryliæ.

APTEROUS
Ap"ter*ous, a.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Destitute of wings; apteral; as, apterous insects.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of winglike membranous expansions, as a stem or
petiole; -- opposed to atate.

APTERYGES
Ap*ter"y*ges, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Apteryx.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of birds, including the genus Apteryx.

APTERYX
Ap"te*ryx, n. Etym: [Gr. Aptera.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of New Zealand birds about the size of a hen, with only
short rudiments of wings, armed with a claw and without a tail; the
kiwi. It is allied to the gigantic extinct moas of the same country.
Five species are known.

APTITUDE
Apt"i*tude, n. Etym: [F. aptitude, LL. aptitudo, fr. L. aptus. See
Apt, and cf. Attitude.]

1. A natural or acquired disposition or capacity for a particular
purpose, or tendency to a particular action or effect; as, oil has an
aptitude to burn.
He seems to have had a peculiar aptitude for the management of
irregular troops. Macaulay.

2. A general fitness or suitableness; adaptation.
That sociable and helpful aptitude which God implanted between man
and woman. Milton.

3. Readiness in learning; docility; aptness.
He was a boy of remarkable aptitude. Macaulay.

APTITUDINAL
Apt`i*tu"di*nal, a.

Defn: Suitable; fit. [Obs.]

APTLY
Apt"ly, adv.

Defn: In an apt or suitable manner; fitly; properly; pertinently;
appropriately; readily.

APTNESS
Apt"ness, n.

1. Fitness; suitableness; appropriateness; as, the aptness of things
to their end.
The aptness of his quotations. J. R. Green.

2. Disposition of the mind; propensity; as, the aptness of men to
follow example.

3. Quickness of apprehension; readiness in learning; docility; as, an
aptness to learn is more observable in some children than in others.

4. Proneness; tendency; as, the aptness of iron to rust.

APTOTE
Ap"tote, n. Etym: [L. aptotum, Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: A noun which has no distinction of cases; an indeclinable noun.

APTOTIC
Ap*tot"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, aptotes; uninflected; as,
aptotic languages.

APTYCHUS
Ap"ty*chus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A shelly plate found in the terminal chambers of ammonite
shells. Some authors consider them to be jaws; others, opercula.

APUS
A"pus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Apode, n.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fresh-water phyllopod crustaceans. See Phyllopod.

APYRETIC
Ap`y*ret"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. a not + pyretic.] (Med.)

Defn: Without fever; -- applied to days when there is an intermission
of fever. Dunglison.

APYREXIA; APYREXY
Ap`y*rex"i*a, Ap`y*rex`y, n. Etym: [NL. apyrexia, fr. Gr. apyrexie.]
(Med.)

Defn: The absence or intermission of fever.

APYREXIAL
Ap`y*rex"i*al, a. (Med.)

Defn: Relating to apyrexy. "Apyrexial period." Brande & C.

APYROUS
Ap"y*rous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Incombustible; capable of sustaining a strong heat without
alteration of form or properties.

AQUA
A"qua, n. Etym: [L. See Ewer.]

Defn: Water; -- a word much used in pharmacy and the old chemistry,
in various signification, determined by the word or words annexed.
Aqua ammoniæ, the aqueous solution of ammonia; liquid ammonia; often
called aqua ammonia.
 -- Aqua marine, or Aqua marina. Same as Aquamarine.
 -- Aqua regia. Etym: [L., royal water] (Chem.), a very corrosive
fuming yellow liquid consisting of nitric and hydrochloric acids. It
has the power of dissolving gold, the "royal" metal.
 -- Aqua Tofana, a fluid containing arsenic, and used for secret
poisoning, made by an Italian woman named Tofana, in the middle of
the 17th century, who is said to have poisoned more than 600 persons.
Francis.
 -- Aqua vitæ Etym: [L., water of life. Cf. Eau de vie, Usquebaugh],
a name given to brandy and some other ardent spirits. Shak.

AQUA FORTIS
A`qua for"tis. Etym: [L., strong water.] (Chem.)

Defn: Nitric acid. [Archaic]

AQUAMARINE
A`qua*ma*rine", n. (Min.)

Defn: A transparent, pale green variety of beryl, used as a gem. See
Beryl.

AQUAPUNCTURE
A`qua*punc"ture, n. Etym: [L. aqua water, + punctura puncture,
pungere, punctum, to, prick.] (Med.)

Defn: The introduction of water subcutaneously for the relief of
pain.

AQUARELLE
Aq`ua*relle", n. Etym: [F., fr. Ital acquerello, fr. acqua water, L.
aqua.]

Defn: A design or painting in thin transparent water colors; also,
the mode of painting in such colors.

AQUARELLIST
Aq`ua*rel"list, n.

Defn: A painter in thin transparent water colors.

AQUARIAL; AQUARIAN
A*qua"ri*al, A*qua"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an aquarium.

AQUARIAN
A*qua"ri*an, n. Etym: [L. (assumed) Aquarianus, fr. aqua: cf. F.
Aquarien. See Aqua.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect of Christian in the primitive church who used
water instead of wine in the Lord's Supper.

AQUARIUM
A*qua"ri*um, n.; pl. E. Aquariums, L. Aquaria. Etym: [L. See
Aquarius, Ewer.]

Defn: An artificial pond, or a globe or tank (usually with glass
sides), in which living specimens of aquatic animals or plants are
kept.

AQUARIUS
A*qua"ri*us, n. Etym: [L. aquarius, adj., relating to water, and n.,
a water-carrier, fr. aqua. See Aqua.] (Astron.)
(a) The Water-bearer; the eleventh sign in the zodiac, which the sun
enters about the 20th of January; -- so called from the rains which
prevail at that season in Italy and the East.
(b) A constellation south of Pegasus.

AQUATIC
A*quat"ic, a. Etym: [L. aquaticus: cf. F. aquatique. See Aqua.]

Defn: Pertaining to water growing in water; living in, swimming in,
or frequenting the margins of waters; as, aquatic plants and fowls.

AQUATIC
A*quat`ic, n.

1. An aquatic animal or plant.

2. pl.

Defn: Sports or exercises practiced in or on the water.

AQUATICAL
A*quat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Aquatic. [R.]

AQUATILE
Aq"ua*tile, a. Etym: [L. aquatilis: cf. F. aquatile.]

Defn: Inhabiting the water. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

AQUATINT; AQUATINTA
A"qua*tint, A`qua*tin"ta, n. Etym: [It. acquatinta dyed water; acqua
(L. aqua) water + tinto, fem. tinta, dyed. See Tint.]

Defn: A kind of etching in which spaces are bitten by the use of aqua
fortis, by which an effect is produced resembling a drawing in water
colors or India ink; also, the engraving produced by this method.

AQUEDUCT
Aq"ue*duct, n. Etym: [F. aqueduc, OF. aqueduct (Cotgr.), fr. L.
aquaeductus; aquae, gen. of aqua water + ductus a leading, ducere to
lead. See Aqua, Duke.]

1. A conductor, conduit, or artificial channel for conveying water,
especially one for supplying large cities with water.

Note: The term is also applied to a structure (similar to the ancient
aqueducts), for conveying a canal over a river or hollow; more
properly called an aqueduct bridge.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A canal or passage; as, the aqueduct of Sylvius, a channel
connecting the third and fourth ventricles of the brain.

AQUEITY
A*que"i*ty, n.

Defn: Wateriness. [Obs.]

AQUEOUS
A"que*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aqueux, L. aquosus, fr. aqua. See Aqua,
Aquose.]

1. Partaking of the nature of water, or abounding with it; watery.
The aqueous vapor of the air. Tyndall.

2. Made from, or by means of, water.
An aqueous deposit. Dana.
Aqueous extract, an extract obtained from a vegetable substance by
steeping it in water.
 -- Aqueous humor (Anat.), one the humors of the eye; a limpid fluid,
occupying the space between the crystalline lens and the cornea. (See
Eye.) -- Aqueous rocks (Geol.), those which are deposited from water
and lie in strata, as opposed to volcanic rocks, which are of igneous
origin; -- called also sedimentary rocks.

AQUEOUSNESS
A`que*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Wateriness.

AQUIFEROUS
A*quif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. aqua water + -ferous.]

Defn: Consisting or conveying water or a watery fluid; as, aquiferous
vessels; the aquiferous system.

AQUIFORM
A"qui*form, a. Etym: [L. aqua water + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of water.

AQUILA
Aq"ui*la, n; pl. Aquilæ. Etym: [L., an eagle.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of eagles.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A northern constellation southerly from Lyra and Cygnus and
preceding the Dolphin; the Eagle. Aquila alba Etym: [L., white
eagle], an alchemical name of calomel. Brande & C.

AQUILATED
Aq"ui*la`ted, a. (Her.)

Defn: Adorned with eagles' heads.

AQUILINE
Aq"ui*line, a. Etym: [L. aquilinus, fr. aquila eagle: cf. F. aquilin.
See Eagle. ]

1. Belonging to or like an eagle.

2. Curving; hooked; prominent, like the beak of an eagle; -- applied
particularly to the nose
Terribly arched and aquiline his nose. Cowper.

AQUILON
Aq"ui*lon, n. Etym: [L. aquilo, -lonis: cf. F. aquilon.]

Defn: The north wind. [Obs.] Shak.

AQUIPAROUS
A*quip"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. aqua water + parere to bring forth.]
(Med.)

Defn: Secreting water; -- applied to certain glands. Dunglison.

AQUITANIAN
Aq`ui*ta"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Aquitania, now called Gascony.

AQUOSE
A*quose", a. Etym: [L. aquosus watery, fr. aqua. See Aqua, Aqueous.]

Defn: Watery; aqueous. [R.] Bailey.

AQUOSITY
A*quos"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. aquositas.]

Defn: The condition of being wet or watery; wateriness. Huxley.
Very little water or aquosity is found in their belly. Holland.

AR
Ar, conj.

Defn: Ere; before. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARA
A"ra, n. Etym: [L.] (Astron.)

Defn: The Altar; a southern constellation, south of the tail of the
Scorpion.

ARA
A"ra, n. Etym: [Native Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name of the great blue and yellow macaw (Ara ararauna),
native of South America.

ARAB
Ar"ab, n. Etym: [Prob. ultimately fr. Heb. arabah a desert, the name
employed, in the Old Testament, to denote the valley of the Jordan
and Dead Sea. Ar. Arab, Heb. arabi, arbi, arbim: cf. F. Arabe, L.
Arabs, Gr.

Defn: One of a swarthy race occupying Arabia, and numerous in Syria,
Northern Africa, etc. Street Arab, a homeless vagabond in the streets
of a city, particularly and outcast boy or girl. Tylor.
The ragged outcasts and street Arabs who are shivering in damp
doorways. Lond. Sat. Rev.

ARABA
A*ra"ba, n. [Written also aroba and arba.] [Ar. or Turk. 'arabah: cf.
Russ. arba.]

Defn: A wagon or cart, usually heavy and without springs, and often
covered. [Oriental]

The araba of the Turks has its sides of latticework to admit the air
Balfour (Cyc. of India).

ARABESQUE
Ar`a*besque", n. Etym: [F. arabesque, fr. It. arabesco, fr. Arabo
Arab.]

Defn: A style of ornamentation either painted, inlaid, or carved in
low relief. It consists of a pattern in which plants, fruits,
foliage, etc., as well as figures of men and animals, real or
imaginary, are fantastically interlaced or put together.

Note: It was employed in Roman imperial ornamentation, and appeared,
without the animal figures, in Moorish and Arabic decorative art.
(See Moresque.) The arabesques of the Renaissance were founded on
Greco-Roman work.

ARABESQUE
Ar`a*besque", a.

1. Arabian. [Obs.]

2. Relating to, or exhibiting, the style of ornament called
arabesque; as, arabesque frescoes.

ARABESQUED
Ar`a*besqued", a.

Defn: Ornamented in the style of arabesques.

ARABIAN
A*ra"bi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Arabia or its inhabitants. Arabian bird,
the phenix. Shak.

ARABIAN
A*ra"bi*an, n.

Defn: A native of Arabia; an Arab.

ARABIC
Ar"a*bic, a. Etym: [L. Arabicus, fr. Arabia.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Arabia or the Arabians. Arabic numerals or
figures, the nine digits, 1, 2, 3, etc., and the cipher 0.
 -- Gum arabic. See under Gum.

ARABIC
Ar"a*bic, n.

Defn: The language of the Arabians.

Note: The Arabic is a Semitic language, allied to the Hebrew. It is
very widely diffused, being the language in which all Mohammedans
must read the Koran, and is spoken as a vernacular tongue in Arabia,
Syria, and Northern Africa.

ARABICAL
A*rab"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to Arabia; Arabic.
 -- A*rab"ic*al*ly, adv.

ARABIN
Ar"a*bin, n.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A carbohydrate, isomeric with cane sugar, contained in gum
arabic, from which it is extracted as a white, amorphous substance.

2. Mucilage, especially that made of gum arabic.

ARABINOSE
Ar"a*bin*ose`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A sugar of the composition C5H10O5, obtained from cherry gum by
boiling it with dilute sulphuric acid.

ARABISM
Ar"a*bism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Arabisme.]

Defn: An Arabic idiom peculiarly of language. Stuart.

ARABIST
Ar`a*bist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Arabiste.]

Defn: One well versed in the Arabic language or literature; also,
formerly, one who followed the Arabic system of surgery.

ARABLE
Ar"a*ble, a. Etym: [F. arable, L. arabilis, fr. arare to plow, akin
to Gr. ear, to plow. See Earable.]

Defn: Fit for plowing or tillage; -- hence, often applied to land
which has been plowed or tilled.

ARABLE
Ar"a*ble, n.

Defn: Arable land; plow land.

ARABY
Ar"a*by, n.

Defn: The country of Arabia. [Archaic & Poetic]

ARACANESE
Ar`a*ca*nese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Aracan, a province of British Burmah.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Aracan.

ARACARI
A`ra*, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American bird, of the genus Pleroglossius, allied to
the toucans. There are several species.

ARACE
A*race", v. t. Etym: [OE. aracen, arasen, OF. arachier, esracier, F.
arracher, fr. L. exradicare, eradicare. The prefix a- is perh. due to
L. ab. See Eradicate.]

Defn: To tear up by the roots; to draw away. [Obs.] Wyatt.

ARACEOUS
A*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [L. arum a genus of plants, fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an order of plants, of which the genus Arum
is the type.

ARACHNID
A*rach"nid, n.

Defn: An arachnidan. Huxley.

ARACHNIDA
A*rach"ni*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the classes of Arthropoda. See Illustration in Appendix.

Note: They have four pairs of legs, no antennæ nor wings, a pair of
mandibles, and one pair of maxillæ or palpi. The head is usually
consolidated with the thorax. The respiration is either by trancheæ
or by pulmonary sacs, or by both. The class includes three principal
orders: Araneina, or spiders; Arthrogastra, including scorpions,
etc.; and Acarina, or mites and ticks.

ARACHNIDAN
A*rach"ni*dan, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Arachnida.

ARACHNIDIAL
Ar`ach*nid"i*al, a. (Zoöl.)
(a) Of or pertaining to the Arachnida.
(b) Pertaining to the arachnidium.

ARACHNIDIUM
Ar`ach*nid"i*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Arachnida.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The glandular organ in which the material for the web of
spiders is secreted.

ARACHNITIS
Ar`ach*ni"tis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the arachnoid membrane.

ARACHNOID
A*rach"noid, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Resembling a spider's web; cobweblike.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to a thin membrane of the brain and spinal cord,
between the dura mater and pia mater.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Covered with, or composed of, soft, loose hairs or fibers, so
as to resemble a cobweb; cobwebby.

ARACHNOID
A*rach"noid, n.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The arachnoid membrane.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Arachnoidea.

ARACHNOIDAL
Ar`ach*noid"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the arachnoid membrane; arachnoid.

ARACHNOIDEA
Ar`ach*noid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Arachnida.

ARACHNOLOGICAL
A*rach`no*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to arachnology.

ARACHNOLOGIST
Ar`ach*nol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in, or studies, arachnology.

ARACHNOLOGY
Ar`ach*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The department of zoölogy which treats of spiders and other
Arachnida.

ARAEOMETER
A`ræ*om"e*ter.

Defn: See Areometer.

ARAEOSTYLE
A*ræ"o*style, a. & n. Etym: [L. araeostylos, Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: See Intercolumniation.

ARAEOSYSTYLE
A*ræ`o*sys"tyle, a. & n. Etym: [Gr. Systyle.] (Arch.)

Defn: See Intercolumniation.

ARAGONESE
Ar`a*go*nese, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Aragon, in Spain, or to its inhabitants.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Aragon, in Spain.

ARAGONITE
A*rag"o*nite, n. Etym: [From Aragon, in Spain.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral identical in composition with calcite or carbonate of
lime, but differing from it in its crystalline form and some of its
physical characters.

ARAGUATO
A`ra*gua"to, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American monkey, the ursine howler (Mycetes ursinus).
See Howler, n., 2.

ARAISE
A*raise"", v. t.

Defn: To raise. [Obs.] Shak.

ARAK
Ar"ak, n.

Defn: Same as Arrack.

ARAMAEAN; ARAMEAN
Ar`a*mæan, Ar`a*me"an, a. Etym: [L. Aramaeus, Gr. Aram, i. e.
Highland, a name given to Syria and Mesopotamia.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Syrians and Chaldeans, or to their
language; Aramaic.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Aram.

ARAMAIC
Ar`a*ma"ic, a. Etym: [See Aramæan, a.]

Defn: Pertaining to Aram, or to the territory, inhabitants, language,
or literature of Syria and Mesopotamia; Aramæan; -- specifically
applied to the northern branch of the Semitic family of languages,
including Syriac and Chaldee.
 -- n.

Defn: The Aramaic language.

ARAMAISM
Ar`a*ma"ism, n.

Defn: An idiom of the Aramaic.

ARANEIDA; ARANEOIDEA
Ar`a*ne"i*da, Ar`a*ne*oid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Araneina.

ARANEIDAN
Ar`a*ne"i*dan, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Araneina or spiders.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Araneina; a spider.

ARANEIFORM
Ar`a*ne"i*form a. Etym: [L. aranea spider + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the form of a spider. Kirby.

ARANEINA
A*ra`ne*i"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. aranea spider.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The order of Arachnida that includes the spiders.

Note: They have mandibles, modified a poison faIllustration in
Appendix.

ARANEOSE
A*ra"ne*ose`, a. Etym: [L. araneous.]

Defn: Of the aspect of a spider's web; arachnoid.

ARANEOUS
A*ra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. araneosus, fr. aranea spider, spider's
web.]

Defn: Cobweblike; extremely thin and delicate, like a cobweb; as, the
araneous membrane of the eye. See Arachnoid. Derham.

ARANGO
A*ran"go, n.; pl. Arangoes. Etym: [The native name.]

Defn: A bead of rough carnelian. Arangoes were formerly imported from
Bombay for use in the African slave trade. McCulloch.

ARAPAIMA
A`ra*pai"ma, n. Etym: [Prob. native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large fresh-water food fish of South America.

ARARA
A*ra"ra, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The palm (or great black) cockatoo, of Australia (Microglossus
aterrimus).

ARAROBA
Ar`a*ro"ba, n. [Tupi.]

1. Goa powder.

2.  A fabaceous tree of Brazil (Centrolobium robustum) having
handsomely striped wood; --called also zebrawood.

ARATION
A*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. aratio, fr. arare to plow.]

Defn: Plowing; tillage. [R.]
Lands are said to be in a state of aration when they are under
tillage. Brande.

ARATORY
Ar"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [LL. aratorius: cf. F. aratoire.]

Defn: Contributing to tillage.

ARAUCARIA
Ar`au*ca"ri*a, n. Etym: [Araucania, a territory south of Chili.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tall conifers of the pine family. The species are
confined mostly to South America and Australia. The wood cells differ
from those of other in having the dots in their lateral surfaces in
two or three rows, and the dots of contiguous rows alternating. The
seeds are edible.

ARAUCARIAN
Ar`au*ca"ri*an, a.

Defn: Relating to, or of the nature of, the Araucaria. The earliest
conifers in geological history were mostly Araucarian. Dana.

ARBALEST; ARBALIST
Ar"ba*lest, Ar"ba*list, n. Etym: [OF. arbaleste, LL. arbalista, for
L. arcuballista; arcus bow + ballista a military engine. See
Ballista.] (Antiq.)

Defn: A crossbow, consisting of a steel bow set in a shaft of wood,
furnished with a string and a trigger, and a mechanical device for
bending the bow. It served to throw arrows, darts, bullets, etc.
[Written also arbalet and arblast.] Fosbroke.

ARBALESTER; ARBALISTER
Ar"ba*lest`er, Ar"ba*list`er, n. Etym: [OF. arblastere, OF.
arbalestier. See Arbalest.]

Defn: A crossbowman. [Obs.] Speed.

ARBITER
Ar"bi*ter, n. Etym: [L. arbiter; ar- (for ad) + the root of betere to
go; hence properly, one who comes up to look on.]

1. A person appointed, or chosen, by parties to determine a
controversy between them.

Note: In modern usage, arbitrator is the technical word.

2. Any person who has the power of judging and determining, or
ordaining, without control; one whose power of deciding and governing
is not limited.
For Jove is arbiter of both to man. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Arbitrator; umpire; director; referee; controller; ruler;
governor.

ARBITER
Ar"bi*ter, v. t.

Defn: To act as arbiter between. [Obs.]

ARBITRABLE
Ar"bi*tra*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. arbitrable, fr. L. arbitrari. See
Arbitrate, v. t.]

Defn: Capable of being decided by arbitration; determinable.
[Archaic] Bp. Hall.

ARBITRAGE
Ar"bi*trage, n. Etym: [F., fr. arbiter to give judgment, L.
arbitrari.]

1. Judgment by an arbiter; authoritative determination. [Archaic]

2. (Com)

Defn: A traffic in bills of exchange (see Arbitration of Exchange);
also, a traffic in stocks which bear differing values at the same
time in different markets.

ARBITRAL
Ar"bi*tral, a. Etym: [L. arbitralis.]

Defn: Of or relating to an arbiter or an arbitration. [R.]

ARBITRAMENT
Ar*bit"ra*ment, n. Etym: [LL. arbitramentum.]

1. Determination; decision; arbitration.
The arbitrament of time. Everett.
Gladly at this moment would MacIvor have put their quarrel to
personal arbitrament. Sir W. Scott.

2. The award of arbitrators. Cowell.

ARBITRARILY
Ar"bi*tra*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In an arbitrary manner; by will only; despotically; absolutely.

ARBITRARINESS
Ar"bi*tra*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being arbitrary; despoticalness; tyranny. Bp.
Hall.

ARBITRARIOUS
Ar`bi*tra"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. arbitrarius. See Arbitrary.]

Defn: Arbitrary; despotic. [Obs.] -- Ar`bi*tra"*ri*ous*ly, adv.
[Obs.]

ARBITRARY
Ar"bi*tra*ry, a. Etym: [L. arbitrarius, fr. arbiter: cf. F.
arbitraire. See Arbiter.]

1. Depending on will or discretion; not governed by any fixed rules;
as, an arbitrary decision; an arbitrary punishment.
It was wholly arbitrary in them to do so. Jer. Taylor.
Rank pretends to fix the value of every one, and is the most
arbitrary of all things. Landor.

2. Exercised according to one's own will or caprice, and therefore
conveying a notion of a tendency to abuse the possession of power.
Arbitrary power is most easily established on the ruins of liberty
abused licentiousness. Washington.

3. Despotic; absolute in power; bound by no law; harsh and
unforbearing; tyrannical; as, an arbitrary prince or government.
Dryden.
Arbitrary constant, Arbitrary function (Math.), a quantity of
function that is introduced into the solution of a problem, and to
which any value or form may at will be given, so that the solution
may be made to meet special requirements.
 -- Arbitrary quantity (Math.), one to which any value can be
assigned at pleasure.

ARBITRATE
Ar"bi*trate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arbitrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Arbitrating.] Etym: [L. arbitratus, p. p. of arbitrari to be a hearer
or beholder of something, to make a decision, to give judgment, fr.
arbiter. See Arbiter.]

1. To hear and decide, as arbitrators; as, to choose to arbitrate a
disputed case.

2. To decide, or determine generally. South.
There shall your swords and lances arbitrate The swelling difference
of your settled hate. Shak.

ARBITRATE
Ar"bi*trate, v. i.

1. To decide; to determine. Shak.

2. To act as arbitrator or judge; as, to arbitrate upon several
reports;; to arbitrate in disputes among heighbors; to arbitrate
between parties to a suit.

ARBITRATION
Ar`bi*tra"tion, n. Etym: [F. arbitration, L. arbitratio, fr.
arbitrari.]

Defn: The hearing and determination of a cause between parties in
controversy, by a person or persons chosen by the parties.

Note: This may be done by one person; but it is usual to choose two
or three called arbitrators; or for each party to choose one, and
these to name a third, who is called the umpire. Their determination
is called the award. Bouvier Arbitration bond, a bond which obliges
one to abide by the award of an arbitration.
 -- Arbitration of Exchange, the operation of converting the currency
of one country into that of another, or determining the rate of
exchange between such countries or currencies. An arbitrated rate is
one determined by such arbitration through the medium of one or more
intervening currencies.

ARBITRATOR
Ar"bi*tra`tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. arbitrari: cf. F. arbitrateur.]

1. A person, or one of two or more persons, chosen by parties who
have a controversy, to determine their differences. See Arbitration.

2. One who has the power of deciding or prescribing without control;
a ruler; a governor.
Though Heaven be shut, And Heaven's high Arbitrators sit secure.
Milton.
Masters of their own terms and arbitrators of a peace. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Judge; umpire; referee; arbiter. See Judge.

ARBITRATRIX
Ar"bi*tra`trix, n. Etym: [L., fem. of arbitrator.]

Defn: A female who arbitrates or judges.

ARBITRESS
Ar"bi*tress, n. Etym: [From Arbiter.]

Defn: A female arbiter; an arbitratrix. Milton.

ARBLAST
Ar"blast, n.

Defn: A crossbow. See Arbalest.

ARBOR
Ar"bor, n. Etym: [OE. herber, herbere, properly a garden of herbs, F.
herbier, fr. L. herbarium. See Herb, and cf. Herbarium.]

Defn: A kind of latticework formed of, or covered with, vines,
branches of trees, or other plants, for shade; a bower. Sir P.
Sidney.

ARBOR
Ar"bor, n. [Written also arbour.] Etym: [L., a tree, a beam.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A tree, as distinguished from a shrub.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. arbre.] (Mech.)
(a) An axle or spindle of a wheel or opinion.
(b) A mandrel in lathe turning. Knight. Arbor Day, a day appointed
for planting trees and shrubs. [U.S.]

ARBORARY
Ar"bo*ra*ry, a. Etym: [L. arborarius, fr. arbor tree.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to trees; arboreal.

ARBORATOR
Ar"bo*ra`tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. arbor tree.]

Defn: One who plants or who prunes trees. [Obs.] Evelyn.

ARBOR DIANAE
Ar"bor Di*a"næ. Etym: [L., the tree of Diana, or silver.] (Chem.)

Defn: A precipitation of silver, in a beautiful arborescent form.

ARBOREAL
Ar*bo"re*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a tree, or to trees; of nature of trees.
Cowley.

2. Attached to, found in or upon, or frequenting, woods or trees; as,
arboreal animals.
Woodpeckers are eminently arboreal. Darwin.

ARBORED
Ar"bored, a.

Defn: Furnished with an arbor; lined with trees. "An arboreal walk."
Pollok.

ARBOREOUS
Ar*bo"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. arboreous, fr. arbor tree.]

1. Having the form, constitution, or habits, of a proper tree, in
distinction from a shrub. Loudon.

2. Pertaining to, or growing on, trees; as, arboreous moss. Quincy.

ARBORESCENCE
Ar`bo*res"cence, n.

Defn: The state of being arborescent; the resemblance to a tree in
minerals, or crystallizations, or groups of crystals in that form;
as, the arborescence produced by precipitating silver.

ARBORESCENT
Ar`bo*res"cent, a. Etym: [L. arborescens, p. pr. of arborescere to
become a tree, fr. arbor tree.]

Defn: Resembling a tree; becoming woody in stalk; dendritic; having
crystallizations disposed like the branches and twigs of a tree.
"Arborescent hollyhocks." Evelyn.

ARBORET
Ar"bo*ret, n. Etym: [OF. arboret, dim. of arbre tree, L. arbor]

Defn: A small tree or shrub. [Obs.] Spenser.
Among thick-woven arborets, and flowers Imbordered on each bank.
Milton.

ARBORETUM
Ar`bo*re"tum, n.; pl. Arboreta. Etym: [L., a place grown with trees.]

Defn: A place in which a collection of rare trees and shrubs is
cultivated for scientific or educational purposes.

ARBORICAL
Ar*bor"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to trees. [Obs.]

ARBORICOLE
Ar*bor"i*cole, a. Etym: [L. arbor + colere to inhabit.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Tree-inhabiting; -- said of certain birds.

ARBORICULTURAL
Ar`bor*i*cul"tur*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to arboriculture. Loudon.

ARBORICULTURE
Ar`bor*i*cul"ture, n. Etym: [L. arbor tree + cultura. See Culture.]

Defn: The cultivation of trees and shrubs, chiefly for timber or for
ornamental purposes.

ARBORICULTURIST
Ar`bor*i*cul"tur*ist, n.

Defn: One who cultivates trees.

ARBORIFORM
Ar*bor"i*form, a.

Defn: Treelike in shape.

ARBORIST
Ar"bor*ist, n. Etym: [F. arboriste, fr. L. arbor tree.]

Defn: One who makes trees his study, or who is versed in the
knowledge of trees. Howell.

ARBORIZATION
Ar`bor*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. arborisation, fr. L. arbor tree.]

Defn: The appearance or figure of a tree or plant, as in minerals or
fossils; a dendrite.

ARBORIZED
Ar"bor*ized, a.

Defn: Having a treelike appearance. "An arborized or moss agate."
Wright.

ARBOROUS
Ar"bor*ous, a.

Defn: Formed by trees. [Obs.]
From under shady, arborous roof. Milton.

ARBOR VINE
Ar"bor vine`.

Defn: A species of bindweed.

ARBOR VITAE
Ar"bor vi"tæ. Etym: [L., tree of life.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An evergreen tree of the cypress tribe, genus Thuja. The
American species is the T. occidentalis.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The treelike disposition of the gray and white nerve tissues in
the cerebellum, as seen in a vertical section.

ARBUSCLE
Ar"bus*cle, n. Etym: [L. arbuscula small tree, shrub, dim. of arbor
tree.]

Defn: A dwarf tree, one in size between a shrub and a tree; a
treelike shrub. Bradley.

ARBUSCULAR
Ar*bus"cu*lar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a dwarf tree; shrublike. Da Costa.

ARBUSTIVE
Ar*bus"tive, a. Etym: [L. arbustivus, fr. arbustum place where trees
are planted.]

Defn: Containing copses of trees or shrubs; covered with shrubs.
Bartram.

ARBUTUS; ARBUTE
Ar"bu*tus, Ar"bute, n. Etym: [L. arbutus, akin to arbor tree.]

Defn: The strawberry tree, a genus of evergreen shrubs, of the Heath
family. It has a berry externally resembling the strawberry; the
arbute tree. Trailing arbutus (Bot.), a creeping or trailing plant of
the Heath family (Epigæa repens), having white or usually rose-
colored flowers with a delicate fragrance, growing in small axillary
clusters, and appearing early in the spring; in New England known as
mayflower; -- called also ground laurel. Gray.

ARC
Arc, n. Etym: [F. arc, L. arcus bow, arc. See Arch, n.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A portion of a curved line; as, the arc of a circle or of an
ellipse.

2. A curvature in the shape of a circular arc or an arch; as, the
colored arc (the rainbow); the arc of Hadley's quadrant.

3. An arch. [Obs.]
Statues and trophies, and triumphal arcs. Milton.

4. The apparent arc described, above or below the horizon, by the sun
or other celestial body. The diurnal arc is described during the
daytime, the nocturnal arc during the night. Electric arc, Voltaic
arc. See under Voltaic.

ARCADE
Ar*cade", n. Etym: [F. arcade, Sp. arcada, LL. arcata, fr. L. arcus
bow, arch.]

1. (Arch.)
(a) A series of arches with the columns or piers which support them,
the spandrels above, and other necessary appurtenances; sometimes
open, serving as an entrance or to give light; sometimes closed at
the back (as in the cut) and forming a decorative feature.
(b) A long, arched building or gallery.

2. An arched or covered passageway or avenue.

ARCADED
Ar*cad"ed, a.

Defn: Furnished with an arcade.

ARCADIA
Ar*ca"di*a, n. Etym: [L. Arcadia, Gr.

1. A mountainous and picturesque district of Greece, in the heart of
the Peloponnesus, whose people were distinguished for contentment and
rural happiness.

2. Fig.: Any region or scene of simple pleasure and untroubled quiet.
Where the cow is, there is Arcadia. J. Burroughs.

ARCADIAN; ARCADIC
Ar*ca"di*an, Ar*ca"dic, a. Etym: [L. Arcadius, Arcadicus, fr.
Arcadia: cf. F. Arcadien, Arcadique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Arcadia; pastoral; ideally rural; as,
Arcadian simplicity or scenery.

ARCANE
Ar*cane", a. Etym: [L. arcanus.]

Defn: Hidden; secret. [Obs.] "The arcane part of divine wisdom."
Berkeley.

ARCANUM
Ar*ca"num, n.; pl. Arcana. Etym: [L., fr. arcanus closed, secret, fr.
arca chest, box, fr. arcere to inclose. See Ark.]

1. A secret; a mystery; -- generally used in the plural.
Inquiries into the arcana of the Godhead. Warburton.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A secret remedy; an elixir. Dunglison.

ARCBOUTANT
Arc`*bou`tant", n. Etym: [F.] (Arch.)

Defn: A flying buttress. Gwilt.

ARCH
Arch, n. Etym: [F. arche, fr. LL. arca, for arcus. See Arc.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: Any part of a curved line.

2. (Arch.)
(a) Usually a curved member made up of separate wedge-shaped solids,
with the joints between them disposed in the direction of the radii
of the curve; used to support the wall or other weight above an
opening. In this sense arches are segmental, round (i. e.,
semicircular), or pointed.
(b) A flat arch is a member constructed of stones cut into wedges or
other shapes so as to support each other without rising in a curve.

Note: Scientifically considered, the arch is a means of spanning an
opening by resolving vertical pressure into horizontal or diagonal
thrust.

3. Any place covered by an arch; an archway; as, to pass into the
arch of a bridge.

4. Any curvature in the form of an arch; as, the arch of the aorta.
"Colors of the showery arch." Milton. Triumphal arch, a monumental
structure resembling an arched gateway, with one or more passages,
erected to commemorate a triumph.

ARCH
Arch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arched; p. pr. & vb. n. Arching.]

1. To cover with an arch or arches.

2. To form or bend into the shape of an arch.
The horse arched his neck. Charlesworth.

ARCH
Arch, v. i.

Defn: To form into an arch; to curve.

ARCH-
Arch- (ärch-, except in archangel and one or two other words). Etym:
[L. arch-, Gr. Arch-.]

Defn: A prefix signifying chief, as in archbuilder, archfiend.

ARCH
Arch, a. Etym: [See Arch-, pref.]

1. Chief; eminent; greatest; principal.
The most arch act of piteous massacre. Shak.

2. Cunning or sly; sportively mischievous; roguish; as, an arch look,
word, lad.
[He] spoke his request with so arch a leer. Tatler.

ARCH
Arch, n. Etym: [See Arch-, pref.]

Defn: A chief. [Obs.]
My worthy arch and patron comes to-night. Shak.

ARCH
*arch. Etym: [Gr. Arch, a.]

Defn: A suffix meaning a ruler, as in monarch (a sole ruler).

-ARCH
-arch. [Gr. 'archo`s chief, commander, 'a`rchein to rule. See Arch,
a.]

Defn: A suffix meaning a ruler, as in monarch (a sole ruler).

ARCHAEAN
Ar*chæ"an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Ancient; pertaining to the earliest period in geological
history.

ARCHAEAN
Ar*chæ"an, n. (Geol.)

Defn: The earliest period in geological period, extending up to the
Lower Silurian. It includes an Azoic age, previous to the appearance
of life, and an Eozoic age, including the earliest forms of life.

Note: This is equivalent to the formerly accepted term Azoic, and to
the Eozoic of Dawson.

ARCHAEOGRAPHY
Ar`chæ*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A description of, or a treatise on, antiquity or antiquities.

ARCHAEOLITHIC
Ar`chæ*o*lith"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Archæol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the earliest Stone age; -- applied to a
prehistoric period preceding the Paleolithic age.

ARCHAEOLOGIAN
Ar`chæ*o*lo"gi*an, n.

Defn: An archæologist.

ARCHAEOLOGIC; ARCHAEOLOGICAL
Ar`chæ*o*log"ic, Ar`chæ*o*log"ic*al,

Defn: Relating to archæology, or antiquities; as, archæological
researches.
 -- Ar`*chæ*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

ARCHAEOLOGIST
Ar`chæ*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in archæology; an antiquary. Wright.

ARCHAEOLOGY
Ar`chæ*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The science or study of antiquities, esp. prehistoric
antiquities, such as the remains of buildings or monuments of an
early epoch, inscriptions, implements, and other relics, written
manuscripts, etc.

ARCHAEOPTERYX
Ar`chæ*op"te*ryx, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil bird, of the Jurassic period, remarkable for having a
long tapering tail of many vertebræ with feathers along each side,
and jaws armed with teeth, with other reptilian characteristics.

ARCHAEOSTOMATOUS
Ar`chæ*o*stom"a*tous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Applied to a gastrula when the blastorope does not entirely up.

ARCHAEOZOIC
Ar`chæ*o*zo"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or belonging to the earliest forms of animal life.

ARCHAIC
Ar*cha"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or characterized by antiquity or archaism; antiquated;
obsolescent.

ARCHAICAL
Ar*cha"ic*al, a.

Defn: Archaic. [R.] -- Ar*cha"ic*al*ly, adv.

ARCHAISM
Ar"cha*ism, n. Etym: [Gr. archaïsme. See Arch, a.]

1. An ancient, antiquated, or old-fashioned, word, expression, or
idiom; a word or form of speech no longer in common use.

2. Antiquity of style or use; obsoleteness.
A select vocabulary corresponding (in point of archaism and
remoteness from ordinary use) to our Scriptural vocabulary. De
Quincey.

ARCHAIST
Ar"cha*ist, n.

1. Am antiquary.

2. One who uses archaisms.

ARCHAISTIC
Ar`cha*is"tic, a.

Defn: Like, or imitative of, anything archaic; pertaining to an
archaism.

ARCHAIZE
Ar"cha*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Archaized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Archaizing.] Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To make appear archaic or antique. Mahaffy.

ARCHANGEL
Arch`an"gel, n. Etym: [L. archangelus, Gr. archangel, F. archange.
See Arch-, pref., and Angel.]

1. A chief angel; one high in the celestial hierarchy. Milton.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A term applied to several different species of plants (Angelica
archangelica, Lamium album, etc.).

ARCHANGELIC
Arch`an*gel"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. archangélique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to archangels; of the nature of, or
resembling, an archangel. Milton.

ARCHBISHOP
Arch`bish"op, n. Etym: [AS. arcebisceop, arcebiscop, L.
archiepiscopus, fr. Gr. Bishop.]

Defn: A chief bishop; a church dignitary of the first class (often
called a metropolitan or primate) who superintends the conduct of the
suffragan bishops in his province, and also exercises episcopal
authority in his own diocese.

ARCHBISHOPRIC
Arch`bish"op*ric, n. Etym: [AS. arcebiscoprice. See -ric.]

Defn: The jurisdiction or office of an archbishop; the see or
province over which archbishop exercises archiepiscopal authority.

ARCH BRICK
Arch" brick`.

Defn: A wedge-shaped brick used in the building of an arch.

ARCHBUTLER
Arch`but"ler, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + butler.]

Defn: A chief butler; -- an officer of the German empire.

ARCHCHAMBERLAIN
Arch`cham"ber*lain, n. Etym: [Cf. G. erzkämmerer. See Arch-, pref.]

Defn: A chief chamberlain; -- an officer of the old German empire,
whose office was similar to that of the great chamberlain in England.

ARCHCHANCELLOR
Arch`chan"cel*lor, n. Etym: [Cf. Ger. erzkanzler. See Arch-, pref.]

Defn: A chief chancellor; -- an officer in the old German empire, who
presided over the secretaries of the court.

ARCHCHEMIC
Arch`chem"ic, a.

Defn: Of supreme chemical powers. [R.] "The archchemic sun." Milton.

ARCHDEACON
Arch`dea"con, n. Etym: [AS. arcediacon, archidiacon, L.
archidiaconus, fr. Gr. Arch-, pref., and Deacon.]

Defn: In England, an ecclesiastical dignitary, next in rank below a
bishop, whom he assists, and by whom he is appointed, though with
independent authority. Blackstone.

ARCHDEACONRY
Arch`dea"con*ry, n.

Defn: The district, office, or residence of an archdeacon. See
Benefice.
Every diocese is divided into archdeaconries. Blackstone.

ARCHDEACONSHIP
Arch`dea"con*ship, n.

Defn: The office of an archdeacon.

ARCHDIOCESE
Arch`di"o*cese, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + diocese.]

Defn: The diocese of an archbishop.

ARCHDUCAL
Arch`du"cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an archduke or archduchy.

ARCHDUCHESS
Arch`duch"ess, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + duchess.]

Defn: The consort of an archduke; also, a princess of the imperial
family of Austria. See Archduke.

ARCHDUCHY
Arch`duch"y, n.

Defn: The territory of an archduke or archduchess. Ash.

ARCHDUKE
Arch`duke", n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + duke.]

Defn: A prince of the imperial family of Austria.

Note: Formerly this title was assumed by the rulers of Lorraine,
Brabant, Austria, etc. It is now appropriated to the descendants of
the imperial family of Austria through the make line, all such male
descendants being styled archduke, and all such female descendants
archduchesses.

ARCHDUKEDOM
Arch`duke"dom, n.

Defn: An archduchy.

ARCHEBIOSIS
Ar`che*bi*o"sis, n. Etym: [Pref. arche- + Gr.

Defn: To origination of living matter from non-living. See
Abiogenesis. Bastian.

ARCHED
Arched, a.

Defn: Made with an arch or curve; covered with an arch; as, an arched
door.

ARCHEGONIAL
Ar`che*go"ni*al, a.

Defn: Relating to the archegonium.

ARCHEGONIUM
Ar`che*go"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The pistillidium or female organ in the higher cryptogamic
plants, corresponding to the pistil in flowering plants.

ARCHEGONY
Ar*cheg"o*ny, n. Etym: [See Archegonium.] (Biol.)

Defn: Spontaneous generation; abiogenesis.

ARCHELOGY
Ar*chel"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of, or a treatise on, first principles. Fleming.

ARCHENCEPHALA
Ar`chen*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. pref. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division that includes man alone. R. Owen.

ARCHENEMY
Arch`en"e*my, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + enemy.]

Defn: A principal enemy. Specifically, Satan, the grand adversary of
mankind. Milton.

ARCHENTERIC
Arch`en*ter"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to the archenteron; as, archenteric invagination.

ARCHENTERON
Arch`en"ter*on, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The primitive enteron or undifferentiated digestive sac of a
gastrula or other embryo. See Illust. under Invagination.

ARCHEOLOGY; ARCHEOLOGICAL
Ar`che*ol"o*gy, n., Ar`che*o*log`ic*al, a.

Defn: Same as Archæology, etc.

ARCHER
Arch"er, n. Etym: [archier, F. archer, LL. arcarius, fr. L. arcus
bow. See Arc, Arch, n.]

Defn: A bowman, one skilled in the use of the bow and arrow.

ARCHERESS
Arch"er*ess, n.

Defn: A female archer. Markham.

ARCHER FISH
Arch"er fish`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fish (Toxotes jaculator), of the East Indies; -- so
called from its ejecting drops of water from its mouth at its prey.
The name is also applied to Chætodon rostratus.

ARCHERSHIP
Arch"er*ship, n.

Defn: The art or skill of an archer.

ARCHERY
Arch"er*y, n. Etym: [OE. archerie.]

1. The use of the bow and arrows in battle, hunting, etc.; the art,
practice, or skill of shooting with a bow and arrows.

2. Archers, or bowmen, collectively.
Let all our archery fall off In wings of shot a-both sides of the
van. Webster (1607).

ARCHES
Arch"es,

Defn: pl. of Arch, n. Court of arches, or Arches Court (Eng. Law),
the court of appeal of the Archbishop of Canterbury, whereof the
judge, who sits as deputy to the archbishop, is called the Dean of
the Arches, because he anciently held his court in the church of St.
Mary-le-Bow (de arcubus). It is now held in Westminster. Mozley & W.

ARCHETYPAL
Ar"che*ty`pal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an archetype; consisting a model (real or
ideal) or pattern; original. "One archetypal mind." Gudworth.

Note: Among Platonists, the archetypal world is the world as it
existed as an idea of God before the creation.

ARCHETYPALLY
Ar"che*ty`pal*ly, adv.

Defn: With reference to the archetype; originally. "Parts
archetypally distinct." Dana.

ARCHETYPE
Ar"che*type, n. Etym: [L. archetypum, Gr. archétype. See Arch-,
pref.]

1. The original pattern or model of a work; or the model from which a
thing is made or formed.
The House of Commons, the archetype of all the representative
assemblies which now meet. Macaulay.
Types and shadows of that glorious archetype that was to come into
the world. South.

2. (Coinage)

Defn: The standard weight or coin by which others are adjusted.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: The plan or fundamental structure on which a natural group of
animals or plants or their systems of organs are assumed to have been
constructed; as, the vertebrate archetype.

ARCHETYPICAL
Ar`che*typ"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to an archetype; archetypal.

ARCHEUS
Ar*che"us, n. Etym: [LL. arch, Gr. Archi-, pref.]

Defn: The vital principle or force which (according to the
Paracelsians) presides over the growth and continuation of living
beings; the anima mundi or plastic power of the old philosophers.
[Obs.] Johnson.

ARCHI-
Ar"chi-. Etym: [L., archi-, Gr. arce-, erce-, OHG. erzi-.]

Defn: A prefix signifying chief, arch; as, architect, archiepiscopal.
In Biol. and Anat. it usually means primitive, original, ancestral;
as, archipterygium, the primitive fin or wing.

ARCHIANNELIDA
Ar`chi*an*nel"i*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL.; pref. archi- + annelida.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Annelida remarkable for having no external segments
or distinct ventral nerve ganglions.

ARCHIATER
Ar"chi*a`ter, n. Etym: [L. archiatrus, Gr.

Defn: Chief physician; -- a term applied, on the continent of Europe,
to the first or body physician of princes and to the first physician
of some cities. P. Cyc.

ARCHIBALD WHEEL
Ar"chi*bald wheel.

Defn: A metal-hubbed wheel of great strength and elasticity, esp.
adapted for artillery carriages and motor cars.

ARCHIBLASTULA
Ar`chi*blas"tu*la, n. Etym: [Pref. archi + blastula.] (Biol.)

Defn: A hollow blastula, supposed to be the primitive form; a c

ARCHICAL
Ar"chi*cal, a. Etym: [Gr. Arch-, pref.]

Defn: Chief; primary; primordial. [Obs.] Cudworth.

ARCHIDIACONAL
Ar`chi*di*ac"o*nal, a. Etym: [L. archidiaconus, Gr. archdeacon.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an archdeacon.
This offense is liable to be censured in an archidiaconal visitation.
Johnson.

ARCHIEPISCOPACY
Ar`chi*e*pis"co*pa*cy, n. Etym: [Pref. archi- + episcopacy.]

1. That form of episcopacy in which the chief power is in the hands
of archbishops.

2. The state or dignity of an archbishop.

ARCHIEPISCOPAL
Ar`chi*e*pis"co*pal, a. Etym: [Pref. archi- + episcopal.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an archbishop; as, Canterbury is an
archiepiscopal see.

ARCHIEPISCOPALITY
Ar`chi*e*pis`co*pal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The station or dignity of an archbishop; archiepiscopacy.
Fuller.

ARCHIEPISCOPATE
Ar`chi*e*pis"co*pate, n. Etym: [Pref. archi- + episcopate.]

Defn: The office of an archbishop; an archbishopric.

ARCHIEREY
Ar*chi"e*rey, n. Etym: [Russ. archieréi, fr. Gr. arch-) + * priest.]

Defn: The higher order of clergy in Russia, including metropolitans,
archbishops, and bishops. Pinkerton.

ARCHIL
Ar"chil, n. Etym: [OF. orchel, orcheil, It. orcella, oricello, or
OSp. orchillo. Cf. Orchil.]

1. A violet dye obtained from several species of lichen (Roccella
tinctoria, etc.), which grow on maritime rocks in the Canary and Cape
Verd Islands, etc. Tomlinson.

2. The plant from which the dye is obtained. [Written also orchal and
orchil.]

ARCHILOCHIAN
Ar`chi*lo"chi*an, a. Etym: [L. Archilochius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the satiric Greek poet Archilochus; as,
Archilochian meter.

ARCHIMAGE; ARCHIMAGUS
Ar"chi*mage, Ar`chi*ma"gus, n. Etym: [NL.; pref. archi- + L. magus,
Gr.

1. The high priest of the Persian Magi, or worshipers of fire.

2. A great magician, wizard, or enchanter. Spenser.

ARCHIMANDRITE
Ar`chi*man"drite, n. Etym: [L. archimandrita, LGr. arch-) + (Gr.
Church)
(a) A chief of a monastery, corresponding to abbot in the Roman
Catholic church.
(b) A superintendent of several monasteries, corresponding to
superior abbot, or father provincial, in the Roman Catholic church.

ARCHIMEDEAN
Ar`chi*me*de"an, a. Etym: [L. Archimedeus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Archimedes, a celebrated Greek philosopher;
constructed on the principle of Archimedes' screw; as, Archimedean
drill, propeller, etc. Archimedean screw, or Archimedes' screw, an
instrument, said to have been invented by Archimedes, for raising
water, formed by winding a flexible tube round a cylinder in the form
of a screw. When the screw is placed in an inclined position, and the
lower end immersed in water, by causing the screw to revolve, the
water is raised to the upper end. Francis.

ARCHIMEDES
Ar`chi*me"des, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of Bryzoa characteristic of the
subcarboniferous rocks. Its form is that of a screw.

ARCHING
Arch"ing, n.

1. The arched part of a structure.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Hogging; -- opposed to sagging.

ARCHIPELAGIC
Ar`chi*pe*lag"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an archipelago.

ARCHIPELAGO
Ar`chi*pel"a*go, n.; pl. -goes or -gos. Etym: [It. arcipelago,
properly, chief sea; Gr. pref Plague.]

1. The Grecian Archipelago, or Ægean Sea, separating Greece from Asia
Minor. It is studded with a vast number of small islands.

2. Hence: Any sea or broad sheet of water interspersed with many
islands or with a group of islands.

ARCHIPTERYGIUM
Ar*chip`te*ryg"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. pref. arch-) + (Anat.)

Defn: The primitive form of fin, like that of Ceratodus.

ARCHITECT
Ar"chi*tect, n. Etym: [L. architectus, architecton, Gr. archi-) +
architecte, It. architetto. See Technical.]

1. A person skilled in the art of building; one who understands
architecture, or makes it his occupation to form plans and designs of
buildings, and to superintend the artificers employed.

2. A contriver, designer, or maker.
The architects of their own happiness. Milton.
A French woman is a perfect architect in dress. Coldsmith.

ARCHITECTIVE
Ar`chi*tec"tive, a.

Defn: Used in building; proper for building. Derham.

ARCHITECTONIC; ARCHITECTONICAL
Ar`chi*tec*ton"ic, Ar`chi*tec*ton"ic*al, a. Etym: [L.
architectonicus, Gr. Architect.]

1. Pertaining to a master builder, or to architecture; evincing skill
in designing or construction; constructive. "Architectonic wisdom."
Boyle.
These architectonic functions which we had hitherto thought belonged.
J. C. Shairp.

2. Relating to the systemizing of knowledge.

ARCHITECTONIC
Ar`chi*tec*ton"ic, n. Etym: [Cf. F. architectonique.]

1. The science of architecture.

2. The act of arranging knowledge into a system.

ARCHITECTONICS
Ar`chi*tec*ton"ics, n.

Defn: The science of architecture.

ARCHITECTOR
Ar"chi*tec`tor, n.

Defn: An architect. [Obs.] North.

ARCHITECTRESS
Ar"chi*tec`tress, n.

Defn: A female architect.

ARCHITECTURAL
Ar`chi*tec"tur*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the art of building; conformed to the rules
of architecture.
 -- Ar`chi*tec"tur*al*ly, adv.

ARCHITECTURE
Ar"chi*tec`ture, n. Etym: [L. architectura, fr. architectus: cf. F.
architecture. See Architect.]

1. The art or science of building; especially, the art of building
houses, churches, bridges, and other structures, for the purposes of
civil life; -- often called civil architecture.
Many other architectures besides Gothic. Ruskin.

3. Construction, in a more general sense; frame or structure;
workmanship.
The architecture of grasses, plants, and trees. Tyndall.
The formation of the first earth being a piece of divine
architecture. Burnet.
Military architecture, the art of fortifications.
 -- Naval architecture, the art of building ships.

ARCHITEUTHIS
Ar`chi*teu"this, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. pref. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of gigantic cephalopods, allied to the squids, found
esp. in the North Atlantic and about New Zealand.

ARCHITRAVE
Ar"chi*trave, n. Etym: [F. architrave, fr. It. architrave; pref.
archi- + trave beam, L. trabs.] (Arch.)
(a) The lower division of an entablature, or that part which rests
immediately on the column, esp. in classical architecture. See
Column.
(b) The group of moldings, or other architectural member, above and
on both sides of a door or other opening, especially if square in
form.

ARCHITRAVED
Ar"chi*traved, a.

Defn: Furnished with an architrave. Cowper.

ARCHIVAL
Ar"chi*val, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or contained in, archives or records. Tooke.

ARCHIVE
Ar"chive, n.; pl. Archives. Etym: [F. archives, pl., L. archivum,
archium, fr. Gr. Archi-, pref.]

1. pl.

Defn: The place in which public records or historic documents are
kept.
Our words . . . . become records in God's court, and are laid up in
his archives as witnesses. Gov. of Tongue.

2. pl.

Defn: Public records or documents preserved as evidence of facts; as,
the archives of a country or family. [Rarely used in sing.]
Some rotten archive, rummaged out of some seldom explored press.
Lamb.

Syn.
 -- Registers; records; chronicles.

ARCHIVIST
Ar"chi*vist, n. Etym: [F. archiviste.]

Defn: A keeper of archives or records. [R.]

ARCHIVOLT
Ar"chi*volt, n. Etym: [F. archivolte, fr. It. archivolto; pref.
archi- + volto vault, arch. See Vault.] (Arch.)
(a) The architectural member surrounding the curved opening of an
arch, corresponding to the architrave in the case of a square
opening.
(b) More commonly, the molding or other ornaments with which the wall
face of the voussoirs of an arch is charged.

ARCHLUTE; ARCHILUTE
Arch"lute, Arch"i*lute, n. Etym: [Cf. F. archiluth, It. arciliuto.]
(Mus.)

Defn: A large theorbo, or double-necked lute, formerly in use, having
the bass strings doubled with an octave, and the higher strings with
a unison.

ARCHLY
Arch"ly, adv.

Defn: In an arch manner; with attractive slyness or roguishness;
slyly; waggishly.
Archly the maiden smiled. Longfellow.

ARCHMARSHAL
Arch`mar"shal, n. Etym: [G. erzmarschall. See Arch-, pref.]

Defn: The grand marshal of the old German empire, a dignity that to
the Elector of Saxony.

ARCHNESS
Arch"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being arch; cleverness; sly humor free from
malice; waggishness. Goldsmith.

ARCHON
Ar"chon, n. Etym: [L. archon, Gr. (Antiq.)

Defn: One of the chief magistrates in ancient Athens, especially, by
preëminence, the first of the nine chief magistrates.
 -- Ar*chon"tic, a.

ARCHONSHIP
Ar"chon*ship, n.

Defn: The office of an archon. Mitford.

ARCHONTATE
Ar"chon*tate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. archontat.]

Defn: An archon's term of office. Gibbon.

ARCHONTS
Ar"chonts, n. pl. Etym: [Gr. p. pr. See Archon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The group including man alone.

ARCHOPLASM
Ar"cho*plasm, n. [See Archon; Plasma.] (Biol.)

Defn: The substance from which attraction spheres develop in mitotic
cell division, and of which they consist.

ARCHPRELATE
Arch`prel"ate, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + prelate.]

Defn: An archbishop or other chief prelate.

ARCHPRESBYTER
Arch`pres"by*ter, n.

Defn: Same as Archpriest.

ARCHPRESBYTERY
Arch`pres"by*ter*y, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + presbutery.]

Defn: The absolute dominion of presbytery. Milton.

ARCHPRIEST
Arch`priest", n.

Defn: A chief priest; also, a kind of vicar, or a rural dean.

ARCHPRIMATE
Arch`pri"mate, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + primate.]

Defn: The chief primate. Milton.

ARCH STONE
Arch" stone`.

Defn: A wedge-shaped stone used in an arch; a voussoir.

ARCHTRAITOR
Arch`trai"tor, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + traitor.]

Defn: A chief or transcendent traitor. I. Watts.

ARCHTREASURER
Arch`treas"ur*er, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + treasurer.]

Defn: A chief treasurer. Specifically, the great treasurer of the
German empire.

ARCHWAY
Arch"way, n.

Defn: A way or passage under an arch.

ARCHWIFE
Arch`wife", n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + wife.]

Defn: A big, masculine wife. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARCHWISE
Arch"wise, adv.

Defn: Arch-shaped.

ARCHY
Arch"y, a.

Defn: Arched; as, archy brows.

ARCHY
*ar"chy. Etym: [Gr. Arch-, pref.]

Defn: A suffix properly meaning a rule, ruling, as in monarchy, the
rule of one only. Cf. -arch.

ARCIFORM
Ar"ci*form, a. Etym: [L. arcus bow + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of an arch; curved.

ARC LIGHT
Arc light. (Elec.)

Defn: The light of an arc lamp.

ARCOGRAPH
Arc"o*graph, n. Etym: [L. arcus (E. arc) + -graph.]

Defn: An instrument for drawing a circular arc without the use of a
central point; a cyclograph.

ARCTATION
Arc*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. arctus shut in, narrow, p. p. of arcere to
shut in: cf. F. arctation.] (Med.)

Defn: Constriction or contraction of some natural passage, as in
constipation from inflammation.

ARCTIC
Arc"tic, a. Etym: [OE. artik, OF. artique, F. arctique, L. arcticus,
fr. Gr. ursus bear, Skr.

Defn: Pertaining to, or situated under, the northern constellation
called the Bear; northern; frigid; as, the arctic pole, circle,
region, ocean; an arctic expedition, night, temperature.

Note: The arctic circle is a lesser circle, parallel to the equator,
23º 28' from the north pole. This and the antarctic circle are called
the polar circles, and between these and the poles lie the frigid
zones. See Zone.

ARCTIC
Arc"tic, n.

1. The arctic circle.

2. A warm waterproof overshoe. [U.S.]

ARCTISCA
Arc*tis"ca, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Arachnida. See Illust. in Appendix.

ARCTOGEAL
Arc`to*ge"al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to arctic lands; as, the arctogeal fauna.

ARCTOIDEA
Arc*toid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of the Carnivora, that includes the bears, weasels,
etc.

ARCTURUS
Arc*tu"rus, n. Etym: [L. Arcturus, Gr. Arctic.] (Anat.)

Defn: A fixed star of the first magnitude in the constellation
Boötes.

Note: Arcturus has sometimes been incorrectly used as the name of the
constellation, or even of Ursa Major.
Canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons [Rev. Ver.: "the Bear with
her train"]. Job xxxviii. 32.

ARCUAL
Arc"u*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an arc. Arcual measure of an angle (Math.),
that in which the unit angle has its measuring arc equal to the
radius of the circle.

ARCUATE; ARCUATED
Arc"u*ate, Arc"u*a`ted(#), a. Etym: [L. arcuatus, p. p. of arcuare to
shape like a bow, fr. arcus. See Arc.]

Defn: Bent or curved in the form of a bow. "Arcuate stalks." Gray.

ARCUATELY
Arc"u*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: In the form of a bow.

ARCUATION
Arc`u*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. arcuatio.]

1. The act of bending or curving; incurvation; the state of being
bent; crookedness. Coxe.

2. (Hort.)

Defn: A mode of propagating trees by bending branches to the ground,
and covering the small shoots with earth; layering. Chambers.

ARCUBALIST
Ar"cu*ba*list, n. Etym: [See Arbalist.]

Defn: A crossbow. Fosbroke.

ARCUBALISTER
Ar`cu*bal"ist*er, n. Etym: [L. arcuballistarius. Cf. Arbalister.]

Defn: A crossbowman; one who used the arcubalist. Camden.

ARCUBUS
Ar"cu*bus, n.

Defn: See Arquebus. [Obs.]

-ARD; -ART
-ard, -art.

Defn: The termination of many English words; as, coward, reynard,
drunkard, mostly from the French, in which language this ending is of
German origin, being orig. the same word as English hard. It usually
has the sense of one who has to a high or excessive degree the
quality expressed by the root; as, braggart, sluggard.

ARDASSINE
Ar*das"sine, n. Etym: [F. (cf. Sp. ardacina), fr. ardasse a kind of
silk thread, fr. Ar. & Per. ardan a kind of raw silk.]

Defn: A very fine sort of Persian silk.

ARDENCY
Ar"den*cy, n.

1. Heat. [R.] Sir T. Herbert.

2. Warmth of passion or affection; ardor; vehemence; eagerness; as,
the ardency of love or zeal.

ARDENT
Ar"dent, a. Etym: [OE. ardaunt, F. ardant, p. pr. of arder to burn,
fr. L. ardere.]

1. Hot or burning; causing a sensation of burning; fiery; as, ardent
spirits, that is, distilled liquors; an ardent fever.

2. Having the appearance or quality of fire; fierce; glowing;
shining; as, ardent eyes. Dryden.

3. Warm, applied to the passions and affections; passionate; fervent;
zealous; vehement; as, ardent love, feelings, zeal, hope, temper.
An ardent and impetuous race. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Burning; hot; fiery; glowing; intense; fierce; vehement; eager;
zealous; keen; fervid; fervent; passionate; affectionate.

ARDENTLY
Ar"dent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ardent manner; eagerly; with warmth; affectionately;
passionately.

ARDENTNESS
Ar"dent*ness, n.

Defn: Ardency. [R.]

ARDOIS SYSTEM
Ar`dois" sys"tem. (Naut.)

Defn: A widely used system of electric night signals in which a
series of double electric lamps (white and red) is arranged
vertically on a mast, and operated from a keyboard below.

ARDOR
Ar"dor, n. Etym: [L. ardor, fr. ardere to burn: cf. OF. ardor, ardur,
F. ardeur.] [Spelt also ardour.]

1. Heat, in a literal sense; as, the ardor of the sun's rays.

2. Warmth or heat of passion or affection; eagerness; zeal; as, he
pursues study with ardor; the fought with ardor; martial ardor.

3. pl.

Defn: Bright and effulgent spirits; seraphim. [Thus used by Milton.]

Syn.
 -- Fervor; warmth; eagerness. See Fervor.

ARDUOUS
Ar"du*ous, a. Etym: [L. arduus steep, high; akin to Ir. ard high,
height.]

1. Steep and lofty, in a literal sense; hard to climb.
Those arduous pats they trod. Pope.

2. Attended with great labor, like the ascending of acclivities;
difficult; laborious; as, an arduous employment, task, or enterprise.

Syn.
 -- Difficult; trying; laborious; painful; exhausting.
 -- Arduous, Hard, Difficult. Hard is simpler, blunter, and more
general in sense than difficult; as, a hard duty to perform, hard
work, a hard task, one which requires much bodily effort and
perseverance to do. Difficult commonly implies more skill and
sagacity than hard, as when there is disproportion between the means
and the end. A work may be hard but not difficult. We call a thing
arduous when it requires strenuous and persevering exertion, like
that of one who is climbing a precipice; as, an arduous task, an
arduous duty. "It is often difficult to control our feelings; it is
still harder to subdue our will; but it is an arduous undertaking to
control the unruly and contending will of others."

ARDUOUSLY
Ar"du*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an arduous manner; with difficulty or laboriousness.

ARDUOUSNESS
Ar"du*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being arduous; difficulty of execution.

ARDUROUS
Ar"du*rous, a.

Defn: Burning; ardent. [R.]
Lo! further on, Where flames the arduous Spirit of Isidore. Cary.

ARE
Are. Etym: [AS. (Northumbrian) aron, akin to the 1st pers. pl. forms,
Icel. erum, Goth. sijum, L. sumus, Gr. smas; all from a root as. Am
and Is, and cf. Be.]

Defn: The present indicative plural of the substantive verb to be;
but etymologically a different word from be, or was. Am, art, are,
and is, all come from the root as.

ARE
Are, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. area. See Area.] (Metric system)

Defn: The unit of superficial measure, being a square of which each
side is ten meters in length; 100 square meters, or about 119.6
square yards.

AREA
A"re*a, n.; pl. Areas . Etym: [L. area a broad piece of level groAre,
n.]

1. Any plane surface, as of the floor of a room or church, or of the
ground within an inclosure; an open space in a building.
The Alban lake . . . looks like the area of some vast amphitheater.
Addison.

2. The inclosed space on which a building stands.

3. The sunken space or court, giving ingress and affording light to
the basement of a building.

4. An extent of surface; a tract of the earth's surface; a region;
as, vast uncultivated areas.

5. (Geom.)

Defn: The superficial contents of any figure; the surface included
within any given lines; superficial extent; as, the area of a square
or a triangle.

6. (Biol.)

Defn: A spot or small marked space; as, the germinative area.

7. Extent; scope; range; as, a wide area of thought.
The largest area of human history and man's common nature. F.
Harrison.
Dry area. See under Dry.

AREAD; AREED
A*read", A*reed", v. t. Etym: [OE. areden, AS. ar to interpret. See
Read.]

1. To tell, declare, explain, or interpret; to divine; to guess; as,
to aread a riddle or a dream. [Obs.]
Therefore more plain aread this doubtful case. Spenser.

2. To read. [Obs.] Drayton.

3. To counsel, advise, warn, or direct.
But mark what I aread thee now. Avaunt! Milton.

4. To decree; to adjudge. [Archaic] Ld. Lytton.

AREAL
A"re*al, a. Etym: [Cf. L. arealis, fr. area.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an area; as, areal interstices (the areas
or spaces inclosed by the reticulate vessels of leaves).

AREAR
A*rear", v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. ar. See Rear.]

Defn: To raise; to set up; to stir up. [Obs.]

AREAR
A*rear", adv. Etym: [See Arrear, adv.]

Defn: Backward; in or to the rear; behindhand. Spenser.

ARECA
A*re"ca, n. Etym: [Canarese adiki: cf. Pg. & Sp. areca.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of palms, one species of which produces the areca nut,
or betel nut, which is chewed in India with the leaf of the Piper
Betle and lime.

ARECOLINE; ARECOLIN
A*re"co*line, A*re"co*lin, n. [From NL. Areca, a genus of palms
bearing betel nut.]

Defn: An oily liquid substance, C8H13O2N, the chief alkaloid of the
betel nut, to which the latter owes its anthelmintic action.

AREEK
A*reek", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + reek.]

Defn: In a reeking condition. Swift.

AREFACTION
Ar`e*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. arefacere to dry.]

Defn: The act of drying, or the state of growing dry.
The arefaction of the earth. Sir M. Hale.

AREFY
Ar"e*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. arere to be dry + -fly.]

Defn: To dry, or make dry. Bacon.

ARENA
A*re"na, n.; pl. E. Arenas; L. Arenæ. Etym: [L. arena, harena, sand,
a sandy place.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: The area in the central part of an amphitheater, in which the
gladiators fought and other shows were exhibited; -- so called
because it was covered with sand.

2. Any place of public contest or exertion; any sphere of action; as,
the arenaof debate; the arena of life.

3. (Med.)

Defn: "Sand" or "gravel" in the kidneys.

ARENACEOUS
Ar`e*na"ceous, a. Etym: [L. arenaceus, fr. arena sand.]

Defn: Sandy or consisting largely of sand; of the nature of sand;
easily disintegrating into sand; friable; as, arenaceous limestone.

ARENARIOUS
Ar`e*na"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. arenarius, fr. arena sand.]

Defn: Sandy; as, arenarious soil.

ARENATION
Ar`e*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. arenatio, fr. arena sand.] (Med.)

Defn: A sand bath; application of hot sand to the body. Dunglison.

ARENDATOR
Ar`en*da"tor, n. Etym: [LL. arendator, arrendator, fr. arendare,
arrendare, to pay rent, fr. arenda yearly rent; ad + renda, F. rente,
E. rent. Cf. Arrentation and Rent.]

Defn: In some provinces of Russia, one who farms the rents or
revenues.

Note: A person who rents an estate belonging to the crown is called
crown arendator. Tooke.

ARENG; ARENGA
A*reng", A*ren"ga, n. Etym: [Malayan.]

Defn: A palm tree (Saguerus saccharifer) which furnishes sago, wine,
and fibers for ropes; the gomuti palm.

ARENICOLITE
Ar`e*nic"o*lite, n. Etym: [L. arena sand + colere to cherish or
live.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An ancient wormhole in sand, preserved in the rocks. Dana.

ARENILITIC
A*ren`i*lit"ic, a. Etym: [L. arena sand + Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sandstone; as, arenilitic mountains.
Kirwan.

ARENOSE
Ar"e*nose, a. Etym: [L. arenosus, fr. arena sand.]

Defn: Sandy; full of sand. Johnson.

ARENULOUS
A*ren"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. arenula fine sand, dim. of arena.]

Defn: Full of fine sand; like sand. [Obs.]

AREOLA
A*re"o*la, n.; pl. Areolæ. Etym: [L. areola, dim. of area: cf. F.
aréole. See Area.]

1. An interstice or small space, as between the cracks of the surface
in certain crustaceous lichens; or as between the fibers composing
organs or vessels that interlace; or as between the nervures of an
insect's wing.

2. (Anat. & Med.)

Defn: The colored ring around the nipple, or around a vesicle or
pustule.

AREOLAR
A*re"o*lar, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, an areola; filled with interstices or
areolæ. reolar tissue (Anat.), a form of fibrous connective tissue in
which the fibers are loosely arranged with numerous spaces, or
areolæ, between them.

AREOLATE; AREOLATED
A*re"o*late, A*re"o*la*ted, a. Etym: [L. areola: cf. F. aréole.]

Defn: Divided into small spaces or areolations, as the wings of
insects, the leaves of plants, or the receptacle of compound flowers.

AREOLATION
A`re*o*la"tion, n.

1. Division into areolæ. Dana.

2. Any small space, bounded by some part different in color or
structure, as the spaces bounded by the nervures of the wings of
insects, or those by the veins of leaves; an areola.

AREOLE
A"re*ole, n.

Defn: Same as Areola.

AREOLET
A*re"o*let, n. Etym: [Dim. of L. areola.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small inclosed area; esp. one of the small spaces on the
wings of insects, circumscribed by the veins.

AREOMETER
A`re*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. aréomètre.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the specific gravity of fluids; a
form hydrometer.

AREOMETRIC; AREOMETRICAL
A`re*o*met"ric, A`re*o*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or measured by, an areometer.

AREOMETRY
A`re*om"e*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -metry.]

Defn: The art or process of measuring the specific gravity of fluids.

AREOPAGIST
Ar`e*op"a*gist, n.

Defn: See Areopagite.

AREOPAGITE
Ar`e*op"a*gite, n. Etym: [L. Areopagites, Gr.

Defn: A member of the Areopagus. Acts xvii. 34.

AREOPAGITIC
Ar`e*op`a*git"ic, a. Etym: [L. Areopagiticus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the Areopagus. Mitford.

AREOPAGUS
Ar`e*op"a*gus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: The highest judicial court at Athens. Its sessions were held on
Mars' Hill. Hence, any high court or tribunal

AREOSTYLE
A*re"o*style, a. & n.

Defn: See Intercolumniation, and Aræostyle.

AREOSYSTYLE
A*re`o*sys"tyle, a. & n.

Defn: See Intercolumniation, and Aræosystyle.

ARERE
A*rere", v. t. & i.

Defn: See Arear. [Obs.] Ellis.

AREST
A*rest", n.

Defn: A support for the spear when couched for the attack. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

ARET
A*ret", v. t. Etym: [OE. aretten, OF. areter; a (L. ad) + OF. reter,
L. reputare. See Repute.]

Defn: To reckon; to ascribe; to impute. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARETAICS
Ar`e*ta"ics, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The ethical theory which excludes all relations between virtue
and happiness; the science of virtue; -- contrasted with eudemonics.
J. Grote.

ARETE
A`rête", n. [F., lit., a sharp fish bone, ridge, sharp edge, fr. L.
arista beard of grain.] (Geog.)

Defn: An acute and rugged crest of a mountain range or a subsidiary
ridge between two mountain gorges.

ARETOLOGY
Ar`e*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. arétologie.]

Defn: That part of moral philosophy which treats of virtue, its
nature, and the means of attaining to it.

AREW
A*rew". adv. Etym: [See Arow, Row.]

Defn: In a row. [Obs.] "All her teeth arew." Spenser.

ARGAL
Ar"gal, n.

Defn: Crude tartar. See Argol.

ARGAL
Ar"gal, adv.

Defn: A ludicrous corruption of the Latin word ergo, therefore. Shak.

ARGAL; ARGALI
Ar"gal, Ar"ga*li, n. Etym: [Mongolian.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of wild sheep (Ovis ammon, or O. argali), remarkable
for its large horns. It inhabits the mountains of Siberia and central
Asia.

Note: The bearded argali is the aoudad. See Aoudad. The name is also
applied to the bighorn sheep of the Rocky Mountains. See Bighorn.

ARGALA
Ar"ga*la, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The adjutant bird.

ARGAND LAMP
Ar"gand lamp`. Etym: [Named from the inventor, Aimé Argand of
Geneva.]

Defn: A lamp with a circular hollow wick and glass chimney which
allow a current of air both inside and outside of the flame. Argand
burner, a burner for an Argand lamp, or a gas burner in which the
principle of that lamp is applied.

ARGAS
Ar"gas, n.

Defn: A genus of venomous ticks which attack men and animals. The
famous Persian Argas, also called Miana bug, is A. Persicus; that of
Central America, called talaje by the natives, is A. Talaje.

ARGEAN
Ar*ge"an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the ship Argo. See Argo.

ARGENT
Ar"gent, n. Etym: [F. argent, fr. L. argentum, silver; akin to Gr.
rajata white, silver, raj to shine, Ir. arg white, milk, airgiod
silver, money, and L. arguere to make clear. See Argue.]

1. Silver, or money. [Archaic]

2. (Fig. & Poet.)

Defn: Whiteness; anything that is white.
The polished argent of her breast. Tennyson.

3. (Her.)

Defn: The white color in coats of arms, intended to represent silver,
or, figuratively, purity, innocence, beauty, or gentleness; --
represented in engraving by a plain white surface. Weale.

ARGENT
Ar"gent, a.

Defn: Made of silver; of a silvery color; white; shining.
Yonder argent fields above. Pope.

ARGENTAL
Ar*gen"tal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to silver; resembling, containing, or combined
with, silver.

ARGENTALIUM
Ar`gen*ta"li*um, n. [NL.; L. argentum silver + E. aluminium.]

Defn: A (patented) alloy of aluminium and silver, with a density of
about 2.9.

ARGENTAMINE; ARGENTAMIN
Ar*gen"ta*mine, Ar*gen"ta*min, n. [L. argentum silver + E. amine.]
(Med.)

Defn: A solution of silver phosphate in an aqueous solution of
ethylene diamine, used as an antiseptic astringent and as a
disinfectant.

ARGENTAN
Ar"gen*tan, n.

Defn: An alloy of nicked with copper and zinc; German silver.

ARGENTATE
Ar"gen*tate, a. Etym: [L. argentatus silvered.] (Bot.)

Defn: Silvery white. Gray.

ARGENTATION
Ar`gen*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. argentare to silver, fr. argentum
silver. See Argent.]

Defn: A coating or overlaying with silver. [R.] Johnson.

ARGENTIC
Ar*gen"tic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, silver; -- said of
certain compounds of silver in which this metal has its lowest
proportion; as, argentic chloride.

ARGENTIFEROUS
Ar`gen*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. argentum silver + -ferous: cf. F.
argentifère.]

Defn: Producing or containing silver; as, argentiferous lead ore or
veins.

ARGENTINE
Ar"gen*tine (; in the 2d sense, commonly ), a.

1. Pertaining to, or resembling, silver; made of, or sounding like,
silver; silvery.
Celestial Dian, goddess argentine. Shak.

2. Of or pertaining to the Argentine Republic in South America.

ARGENTINE
Ar"gen*tine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. argentin, fr. L. argentum silver.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A siliceous variety of calcite, or carbonate of lime, having a
silvery-white, pearly luster, and a waving or curved lamellar
structure.

2. White metal coated with silver. Simmonds.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of Europe (Maurolicus Pennantii) with silvery scales.
The name is also applied to various fishes of the genus Argentina.

4. A citizen of the Argentine Republic.

ARGENTITE
Ar"gen*tite, n. Etym: [L. argentum silver.] (Min.)

Defn: Sulphide of silver; -- also called vitreous silver, or silver
glance. It has a metallic luster, a lead-gray color, and is sectile
like lead.

ARGENTOUS
Ar*gen"tous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, silver; -- said of certain
silver compounds in which silver has a higher proportion than in
argentic compounds; as, argentous chloride.

ARGENTRY
Ar"gent*ry, n. Etym: [F. argenterie, fr. argent silver, L. argentum.]

Defn: Silver plate or vessels. [Obs.]
Bowls of frosted argentry. Howell.

ARGIL
Ar"gil, n. Etym: [F. argile, L. argilla white clay, akin to Gr.
Argent.] (Min.)

Defn: Clay, or potter's earth; sometimes pure clay, or alumina. See
Clay.

ARGILLACEOUS
Ar`gil*la"ceous, a. Etym: [L. argillaceus, fr. argilla.]

Defn: Of the nature of clay; consisting of, or containing, argil or
clay; clayey. Argillaceous sandstone (Geol.), a sandstone containing
much clay.
 -- Argillaceous iron ore, the clay ironstone.
 -- Argillaceous schist or state. See Argillite.

ARGILLIFEROUS
Ar`gil*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. argilla white clay + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing clay; -- applied to such earths as abound with argil.
Kirwan.

ARGILLITE
Ar"gil*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: Argillaceous schist or slate; clay slate. Its colors is bluish
or blackish gray, sometimes greenish gray, brownish red, etc.
 -- Ar`gil*lit"ic, a.

ARGILLO-AREENACEOUS
Ar*gil`lo-are`e*na"ceous, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, clay and sand, as a soil.

ARGILLO-CALCAREOUS
Ar*gil`lo-cal*ca"re*ous, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, clay and calcareous earth.

ARGILLO-FERRUGINOUS
Ar*gil`lo-fer*ru"gi*nous, a.

Defn: Containing clay and iron.

ARGILLOUS
Ar*gil"lous, a. Etym: [L. argillosus, fr. argilla. See Argil.]

Defn: Argillaceous; clayey. Sir T. Browne.

ARGIVE
Ar"give, a. Etym: [L. Argivus, fr. Argos, Argi.]

Defn: Of or performance to Argos, the capital of Argolis in Greece.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Argos. Often used as a generic term, equivalent to
Grecian or Greek.

ARGO
Ar"go, n. Etym: [L. Argo, Gr.

1. (Myth.)

Defn: The name of the ship which carried Jason and his fifty-four
companions to Colchis, in quest of the Golden Fleece.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A large constellation in the southern hemisphere, called also
Argo Navis. In modern astronomy it is replaced by its three
divisions, Carina, Puppis, and Vela.

ARGOAN
Ar*go"an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the ship Argo.

ARGOILE
Ar"goile, n.

Defn: Potter's clay. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARGOL
Ar"gol, n. Etym: [Cf. Argal, Orgal. Of unknown origin.]

Defn: Crude tartar; an acidulous salt from which cream of tartar is
prepared. It exists in the juice of grapes, and is deposited from
wines on the sides of the casks. Ure.

ARGOLIC
Ar*gol"ic, a. Etym: [L. Argolicus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to Argolis, a district in the Peloponnesus.

ARGON
Ar"gon, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance regarded as an element, contained in the atmosphere
and remarkable for its chemical inertness. Rayleigh and Ramsay.

ARGONAUT
Ar"go*naut, n. Etym: [L. Argonauta, Gr. Argo.]

1. Any one of the legendary Greek heroes who sailed with Jason, in
the Argo, in quest of the Golden Fleece.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cephalopod of the genus Argonauta.

ARGONAUTA
Ar`go*nau"ta, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Cephalopoda. The shell is called paper nautilus or
paper sailor.

Note: The animal has much resemblance to an Octopus. It has eight
arms, two of which are expanded at the end and clasp the shell, but
are never elevated in the air for sails as was formerly supposed. The
creature swims beneath the surface by means of a jet of water, like
other cephalopods. The male has no shell, and is much smaller than
the female. See Hectocotylus.

ARGONAUTIC
Ar"go*naut"ic, a. Etym: [L. Argonauticus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Argonauts.

ARGOSY
Ar"go*sy, n.; pl. Argosies. Etym: [Earlier ragusy, fr. ragusa meaning
orig. a vessel of Ragusa.]

Defn: A large ship, esp. a merchant vessel of the largest size.
Where your argosies with portly sail . . . Do overpeer the petty
traffickers. Shak.

ARGOT
Ar`got", n. Etym: [F. Of unknown origin.]

Defn: A secret language or conventional slang peculiar to thieves,
tramps, and vagabonds; flash.

ARGUABLE
Ar"gu*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being argued; admitting of debate.

ARGUE
Ar"gue, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Argued; p. pr. & vb. n. Arguing.] Etym:
[OE. arguen, F. arguer, fr. L. argutare, freq. of arguere to make
clear; from the same root as E. argent.]

1. To invent and offer reasons to support or overthrow a proposition,
opinion, or measure; to use arguments; to reason.
I argue not Against Heaven's hand or will. Milton.

2. To contend in argument; to dispute; to reason; -- followed by
with; as, you may argue with your friend without convincing him.

ARGUE
Ar"gue, v. t.

1. To debate or discuss; to treat by reasoning; as, the counsel
argued the cause before a full court; the cause was well argued.

2. To prove or evince; too manifest or exhibit by inference,
deduction, or reasoning.
So many laws argue so many sins. Milton.

3. To persuade by reasons; as, to argue a man into a different
opinion.

4. To blame; to accuse; to charge with. [Obs.]
Thoughts and expressions . . . which can be truly argued of
obscenity, profaneness, or immorality. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- to reason; evince; discuss; debate; expostulate; remonstrate;
controvert.
 -- To Argue, Dispute, Debate. These words, as here compared, suppose
a contest between two parties in respect to some point at issue. To
argue is to adduce arguments or reasons in support of one's cause or
position. To dispute is to call in question or deny the statements or
arguments of the opposing party. To debate is to strive for or
against in a somewhat formal manner by arguments.
Men of many words sometimes argue for the sake of talking; men of
ready tongues frequently dispute for the sake of victory; men in
public life often debate for the sake of opposing the ruling party,
or from any other motive than the love of truth. Crabb.
Unskilled to argue, in dispute yet loud, Bold without caution,
without honors proud. Falconer.
Betwixt the dearest friends to raise debate. Dryden.

ARGUER
Ar"gu*er, n.

Defn: One who argues; a reasoner; a disputant.

ARGUFY
Ar"gu*fy, v. t. & i. Etym: [Argue + -fy.]

1. To argue pertinaciously. [Colloq.] Halliwell.

2. To signify. [Colloq.]

ARGULUS
Ar"gu*lus, n. Etym: [NL., dim of Argus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of copepod Crustacea, parasitic of fishes; a fish
louse. See Branchiura.

ARGUMENT
Ar"gu*ment, n. Etym: [F. argument, L. argumentum, fr. arguere to
argue.]

1. Proof; evidence. [Obs.]
There is.. no more palpable and convincing argument of the existence
of a Deity. Ray.
Why, then, is it made a badge of wit and an argument of parts for a
man to commence atheist, and to cast off all belief of providence,
all awe and reverence for religion South.

2. A reason or reasons offered in proof, to induce belief, or
convince the mind; reasoning expressed in words; as, an argument
about, concerning, or regarding a proposition, for or in favor of it,
or against it.

3. A process of reasoning, or a controversy made up of rational
proofs; argumentation; discussion; disputation.
The argument is about things, but names. Locke.

4. The subject matter of a discourse, writing, or artistic
representation; theme or topic; also, an abstract or summary, as of
the contents of a book, chapter, poem.
You and love are still my argument. Shak.
The abstract or argument of the piece. Jeffrey.
[Shields] with boastful argument portrayed. Milton.

5. Matter for question; business in hand. [Obs.]
Sheathed their swords for lack of argument. Shak.

6. (Astron.)

Defn: The quantity on which another quantity in a table depends; as,
the altitude is the argument of the refraction.

7. (Math.)

Defn: The independent variable upon whose value that of a function
depends. Brande & C.

ARGUMENT
Ar"gu*ment, v. i. Etym: [L. argumentari.]

Defn: To make an argument; to argue. [Obs.] Gower.

ARGUMENTABLE
Ar`gu*men"ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. argumentabilis.]

Defn: Admitting of argument. [R.] Chalmers.

ARGUMENTAL
Ar`gu*men"tal, a. Etym: [L. argumentalis.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, argument; argumentative.

ARGUMENTATION
Ar`gu*men*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. argumentatio, from argumentari: cf.
F. argumentation.]

1. The act of forming reasons, making inductions, drawing
conclusions, and applying them to the case in discussion; the
operation of inferring propositions, not known or admitted as true,
from facts or principles known, admitted, or proved to be true.
Which manner of argumentation, how false and naught it is, . . .
every man that hath with perceiveth. Tyndale.

2. Debate; discussion.

Syn.
 -- Reasoning; discussion; controversy. See Reasoning.

ARGUMENTATIVE
Ar`gu*men"ta*tive, a.

1. Consisting of, or characterized by, argument; containing a process
of reasoning; as, an argumentative discourse.

2. Adductive as proof; indicative; as, the adaptation of things to
their uses is argumentative of infinite wisdom in the Creator. [Obs.]

3. Given to argument; characterized by argument; disputatious; as, an
argumentative writer. --Ar`gu*men"ta*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Ar`gu*men"ta*tive*ness, n.

ARGUMENTIZE
Ar"gu*men*tize, v. i.

Defn: To argue or discuss. [Obs.] Wood.

ARGUS
Ar"gus, n. Etym: [L. Argus, Gr.

1. (Myth.)

Defn: A fabulous being of antiquity, said to have had a hundred eyes,
who has placed by Juno to guard Io. His eyes were transplanted to the
peacock's tail.

2. One very vigilant; a guardian always watchful.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of East Indian pheasants. The common species (A.
giganteus) is remarkable for the great length and beauty of the wing
and tail feathers of the male. The species A. Grayi inhabits Borneo.

ARGUS-EYED
Ar"gus-eyed, a.

Defn: Extremely observant; watchful; sharp-sighted.

ARGUS SHELL
Ar"gus shell` . (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of shell (Cypræa argus), beautifully variegated with
spots resembling those in a peacock's tail.

ARGUTATION
Ar`gu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. argutatio. See Argue.]

Defn: Caviling; subtle disputation. [Obs.]

ARGUTE
Ar*gute", a. Etym: [L. argutus, p. p. of arguere. See Argue.]

1. Sharp; shrill. [Obs.] Johnson.

2. Sagacious; acute; subtle; shrewd.
The active preacher . . . the argue schoolman. Milman.

ARGUTELY
Ar*gute"ly, adv.

Defn: In a subtle; shrewdly.

ARGUTENESS
Ar*gute"ness, n.

Defn: Acuteness. Dryden.

ARHIZAL; ARHIZOUS; ARHYTHMIC; ARHYTHMOUS
A*rhi"zal, A*rhi"zous, A*rhyth"*mic, A*rhyth"mous, a.

Defn: See Arrhizal, Arrhizous, Arrhythmic, Arrhythmous.

ARIA
A"ri*a, n. Etym: [It., fr. L. aër. See Air.] (Mus.)

Defn: An air or song; a melody; a tune.

Note: The Italian term is now mostly used for the more elaborate
accompanied melodies sung by a single voice, in operas, oratorios,
cantatas, anthems, etc., and not so much for simple airs or tunes.

ARIAN
Ar"ian, a. & n. (Ethnol.)

Defn: See Aryan.

ARIAN
A"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Arianus.]

Defn: Pertaining to Arius, a presbyter of the church of Alexandria,
in the fourth century, or to the doctrines of Arius, who held Christ
to be inferior to God the Father in nature and dignity, though the
first and noblest of all created beings.
 -- n.

Defn: One who adheres to or believes the doctrines of Arius. Mosheim.

ARIANISM
A"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines of the Arians.

ARIANIZE
A"ri*an*ize, v. i.

Defn: To admit or accept the tenets of the Arians; to become an
Arian.

ARIANIZE
A"ri*an*ize, v. t.

Defn: To convert to Arianism.

ARICINE
Ar"i*cine, n. Etym: [From Arica, in Chile.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid, first found in white cinchona bark.

ARID
Ar"id, a. Etym: [L. aridus, fr. arere to be dry: cf. F. aride.]

Defn: Exhausted of moisture; parched with heat; dry; barren. "An arid
waste." Thomson.

ARIDITY
A*rid"i*ty, n.; pl. Aridities. Etym: [L. ariditas, fr. aridus.]

1. The state or quality of being arid or without moisture; dryness.

2. Fig.: Want of interest of feeling; insensibility; dryness of style
or feeling; spiritual drought. Norris.

ARIDNESS
Ar"id*ness, n.

Defn: Aridity; dryness.

ARIEL; ARIEL GAZELLE
A"ri*el, n., or; A"ri*el ga*zelle". Etym: [Ar. aryil, ayyil, stag.]
(Zoöl.) A)

Defn: A variety of the gazelle (Antilope, or Gazella, dorcas), found
in Arabia and adjacent countries. (b) A squirrel-like Australian
marsupial, a species of Petaurus. (c) A beautiful Brazilian toucan
Ramphastos ariel).

ARIES
A"ri*es, n. Etym: [L.]

1. (Astron.)
(a) The Ram; the first of the twelve signs in the zodiac, which the
sun enters at the vernal equinox, about the 21st of March.
(b) A constellation west of Taurus, drawn on the celestial globe in
the figure of a ram.

2. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A battering-ram.

ARIETATE
Ar"i*e*tate, v. i. Etym: [L. arietatus, p. p. of arietare, fr. aries
ram.]

Defn: To butt, as a ram. [Obs.]

ARIETATION
Ar`i*e*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. arietatio.]

1. The act of butting like a ram; act of using a battering-ram.
[Obs.] Bacon.

2. Act of striking or conflicting. [R.] Glanvill.

ARIETTA; ARIETTE
A`ri*et"ta, Ar`i*ette", n. Etym: [It. arietta, dim. of aria; F.
ariette.] (Mus.)

Defn: A short aria, or air. "A military ariette." Sir W. Scott.

ARIGHT
A*right", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + right.]

Defn: Rightly; correctly; in a right way or form; without mistake or
crime; as, to worship God aright.

ARIL; ARILLUS
Ar"il, A*ril"lus, n. Etym: [From LL. arilli dry grapes, perh. fr. L.
aridus dry: cf. F,. arille.] (Bot.)

Defn: A exterior covering, forming a false coat or appendage to a
seed, as the loose, transparent bag inclosing the seed or the white
water lily. The mace of the nutmeg is also an aril. Gray.

ARILLATE; ARILLATED; ARILED
Ar"il*late. Ar"il*la`ted, Ar"iled, a. Etym: [Cf. NL. arillatus, F.
arillé.]

Defn: Having an aril.

ARILLODE
Ar"il*lode, n.  [Arillus + Gr.  form.] (Bot.)

Defn: A false aril; an aril originating from the micropyle instead of
from the funicle or chalaza of the ovule. The mace of the nutmeg is
an arillode.

ARIMAN
A"ri*man, n.

Defn: See Ahriman.

ARIOLATION
Ar`i*o*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. ariolatio, hariolatio, fr. hariolari to
prophesy, fr. hariolus soothsayer.]

Defn: A soothsaying; a foretelling. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ARIOSE
Ar"i*ose, a. Etym: [It. arioso, fr. aria.]

Defn: Characterized by melody, as distinguished from harmony.
Mendelssohn wants the ariose beauty of Handel; vocal melody is not
his forte; the interest of his airs harmonic. Foreign Quart. Rev.

ARIOSO
A`ri*o"so, adv. & a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: In the smooth and melodious style of an air; ariose.

ARISE
A*rise", v. i. [imp. Arose; p. pr. & vb. n. Arising; p. p. Arisen.].
Etym: [AS. arisan; a (equiv. to Goth. us-, ur-, G. er-, orig. meaning
out) + risan to rise; cf. Goth. urreisan to arise. See Rise.]

1. To come up from a lower to a higher position; to come above the
horizon; to come up from one's bed or place of repose; to mount; to
ascend; to rise; as, to arise from a kneeling posture; a cloud arose;
the sun ariseth; he arose early in the morning.

2. To spring up; to come into action, being, or notice; to become
operative, sensible, or visible; to begin to act a part; to present
itself; as, the waves of the sea arose; a persecution arose; the
wrath of the king shall arise.
There arose up a new king . . . which knew not Joseph. Ex. i. 8.
The doubts that in his heart arose. Milton.

3. To proceed; to issue; to spring.
Whence haply mention may arise Of something not unseasonable to ask.
Milton.

ARISE
A*rise", n.

Defn: Rising. [Obs.] Drayton.

ARIST
A*rist", 3d sing. pres.

Defn: of Arise, for ariseth. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARISTA
A*ris"ta, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: An awn. Gray.

ARISTARCH
Ar"is*tarch, n. Etym: [From Aristarchus, a Greek grammarian and
critic, of Alexandria, about 200 b. c.]

Defn: A severe critic. Knowles.

ARISTARCHIAN
Ar`is*tar"chi*an, a.

Defn: Severely critical.

ARISTARCHY
Ar"is*tar`chy, n.

Defn: Severely criticism.

ARISTARCHY
Ar"is*tar`chy, n.

Defn: Severe criticism. [Obs.] Sir J. Harrington.

ARISTATE
A*ris"tate, a. Etym: [L. aristatus, fr. arista. See Arista.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a pointed, beardlike process, as the glumes of wheat;
awned. Gray.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a slender, sharp, or spinelike tip.

ARISTOCRACY
Ar`is*toc"ra*cy, n.; pl. Aristocracies. Etym: [Gr. arm, and orig.
meant fitting: cf. F. aristocratie. See Arm, and Create, which is
related to Gr.

1. Government by the best citizens.

2. A ruling body composed of the best citizens. [Obs.]
In the Senate Right not our quest in this, I will protest them To all
the world, no aristocracy. B. Jonson.

3. A form a government, in which the supreme power is vested in the
principal persons of a state, or in a privileged order; an oligarchy.
The aristocracy of Venice hath admitted so many abuses, trough the
degeneracy of the nobles, that the period of its duration seems
approach. Swift.

4. The nobles or chief persons in a state; a privileged class or
patrician order; (in a popular use) those who are regarded as
superior to the rest of the community, as in rank, fortune, or
intellect.

ARISTOCRAT
A*ris"to*crat, n. Etym: [F. aristocrate. See Aristocracy.]

1. One of the aristocracy or people of rank in a community; one of a
ruling class; a noble.

2. One who is overbearing in his temper or habits; a proud or haughty
person.
A born aristocrat, bred radical. Mrs. Browning.

3. One who favors an aristocracy as a form of government, or believes
the aristocracy should govern.
His whole family are accused of being aristocrats. Romilly.

ARISTOCRATIC; ARISTOCRATICAL
Ar`is*to*crat"ic, Ar`is*to*crat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. aristocratique.]

1. Of or pertaining to an aristocracy; consisting in, or favoring, a
government of nobles, or principal men; as, an aristocratic
constitution.

2. Partaking of aristocracy; befitting aristocracy; characteristic
of, or originating with, the aristocracy; as, an aristocratic
measure; aristocratic pride or manners.
 -- Ar`is*to*crat"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Ar`is*to*crat"ic*al*ness, n.

ARISTOCRATISM
Ar"is*to*crat`ism, n.

1. The principles of aristocrats. Romilly.

2. Aristocrats, collectively. [R.]

ARISTOLOGY
Ar`is*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of dining. Quart. Rev.

ARISTOPHANIC
Ar`is*to*phan"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Aristophanes, the Athenian comic poet.

ARISTOTELIAN
Ar`is*to*te"li*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Aristotle, the famous Greek philosopher
(384-322 b. c.).
 -- n.

Defn: A follower of Aristotle; a Peripatetic. See Peripatetic.

ARISTOTELIANISM
Ar`is*to*te"li*an*ism.

Defn: The philosophy of Aristotle, otherwise called the Peripatetic
philosophy.

ARISTOTELIC
Ar`is*to*tel"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Aristotle or to his philosophy. "Aristotelic
usage." Sir W. Hamilton.

ARISTOTLE'S LANTERN
Ar"is*to`tle's lan"tern. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The five united jaws and accessory ossicles of certain sea
urchins.

ARISTOTYPE
A*ris"to*type`, n. [Gr.  best + -type.] (Photog.)

Defn: Orig., a printing-out process using paper coated with silver
chloride in gelatin; now, any such process using silver salts in
either collodion or gelatin; also, a print so made.

ARISTULATE
A*ris"tu*late, a. Etym: [Dim. fr. arista.] (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining a short beard or awn. Gray.

ARITHMANCY
Ar"ith*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of numbers.

ARITHMETIC
A*rith"me*tic, n. Etym: [OE. arsmetike, OF. arismetique, L.
arithmetica, fr. Gr. arm, the idea of counting coming from that of
fitting, attaching. See Arm. The modern Eng. and French forms are
accommodated to the Greek.]

1. The science of numbers; the art of computation by figures.

2. A book containing the principles of this science. Arithmetic of
sines, trigonometry.
 -- Political arithmetic, the application of the science of numbers
to problems in civil government, political economy, and social
science.
 -- Universal arithmetic, the name given by Sir Isaac Newton to
algebra.

ARITHMETICAL
Ar`ith*met"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to arithmetic; according to the rules or
method of arithmetic. Arithmetical complement of a logarithm. See
Logarithm.
 -- Arithmetical mean. See Mean.
 -- Arithmetical progression. See Progression.
 -- Arithmetical proportion. See Proportion.

ARITHMETICALLY
Ar`ith*met"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Conformably to the principles or methods of arithmetic.

ARITHMETICIAN
A*rith`me*ti"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. arithméticien.]

Defn: One skilled in arithmetic.

ARITHMOMANCY
A*rith"mo*man"cy, n.

Defn: Arithmancy.

ARITHMOMETER
Ar`ith*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. arithmomètre.]

Defn: A calculating machine.

ARK
Ark, n. Etym: [OE. ark, arke, arche, AS. arc, earc, earce, fr. L.
arca, fr. arcere to inclose, keep off; akin to Gr.

1. A chest, or coffer. [Obs.]
Bearing that precious relic in an ark. Spenser.

2. (Jewish Hist.)

Defn: The oblong chest of acacia wood, overlaid with gold, which
supported the mercy seat with its golden cherubs, and occupied the
most sacred place in the sanctuary. In it Moses placed the two tables
of stone containing the ten commandments. Called also the Ark of the
Covenant.

3. The large, chestlike vessel in which Noah and his family were
preserved during the Deluge. Gen. vi. Hence: Any place of refuge.

4. A large flatboat used on Western American rivers to transport
produce to market.

ARKITE
Ark"ite, a.

Defn: Belonging to the ark. [R.] Faber.

ARKOSE
Ar*kose", n. [F] (Petrog)

Defn: A sandstone derived from the disintegration of granite or
gneiss, and characterized by feldspar fragments. -- Ar*kos"ic (#), a.

ARK SHELL
Ark" shell`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine bivalve shell belonging to the genus Arca and its
allies.

ARLES
Arles, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. F. arrhes, Scot. airles. Cf. Earles penny.]

Defn: An earnest; earnest money; money paid to bind a bargain.
[Scot.] Arles penny, earnest money given to servants. Kersey.

ARM
Arm, n. Etym: [AS. arm, earm; akin to OHG. aram, G., D., Dan., & Sw.
arm, Icel. armr, Goth. arms, L. armus arm, shoulder, and prob. to Gr.
rame. Art, Article.]

1. The limb of the human body which extends from the shoulder to the
hand; also, the corresponding limb of a monkey.

2. Anything resembling an arm; as,
(a) The fore limb of an animal, as of a bear.
(b) A limb, or locomotive or prehensile organ, of an invertebrate
animal.
(c) A branch of a tree.
(d) A slender part of an instrument or machine, projecting from a
trunk, axis, or fulcrum; as, the arm of a steelyard.
(e) (Naut) The end of a yard; also, the part of an anchor which ends
in the fluke.
(f) An inlet of water from the sea.
(g) A support for the elbow, at the side of a chair, the end of a
sofa, etc.

3. Fig.: Power; might; strength; support; as, the secular arm; the
arm of the law.
To whom is the arm of the Lord revealed Isa. lii. 1.
Arm's end, the end of the arm; a good distance off. Dryden.
 -- Arm's length, the length of the arm.
 -- Arm's reach, reach of the arm; the distance the arm can reach.
 -- To go (or walk) arm in arm, to go with the arm or hand of one
linked in the arm of another. "When arm in armwe went along."
Tennyson.
 -- To keep at arm's length, to keep at a distance (literally or
figuratively); not to allow to come into close contact or familiar
intercourse.
 -- To work at arm's length, to work disadvantageously.

ARM
Arm, n. Etym: [See Arms.] (Mil.)
(a) A branch of the military service; as, the cavalry arm was made
efficient.
(b) A weapon of offense or defense; an instrument of warfare; --
commonly in the pl.

ARM
Arm, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Armed; p. pr. & vb. n. Arming.] Etym: [OE.
armen, F. armer, fr. L. armare, fr. arma, pl., arms. See arms.]

1. To take by the arm; to take up in one's arms. [Obs.]
And make him with our pikes and partisans A grave: come, arm him.
Shak.
Arm your prize; I know you will not lose him. Two N. Kins.

2. To furnish with arms or limbs. [R.]
His shoulders broad and strong, Armed long and round. Beau. & Fl.

3. To furnish or equip with weapons of offense or defense; as, to arm
soldiers; to arm the country.
Abram . . . armed his trained servants. Gen. xiv. 14.

4. To cover or furnish with a plate, or with whatever will add
strength, force, security, or efficiency; as, to arm the hit of a
sword; to arm a hook in angling.

5. Fig.: To furnish with means of defense; to prepare for resistance;
to fortify, in a moral sense.
Arm yourselves . . . with the same mind. 1 Pet. iv. 1.
To arm a magnet, to fit it with an armature.

ARM
Arm, v. i.

Defn: To provide one's self with arms, weapons, or means of attack or
resistance; to take arms. " 'Tis time to arm." Shak.

ARMADA
Ar*ma"da, n. Etym: [Sp. armada, L. as if armata (sc. classic fleet),
fr. armatus, p. p. of armare. See Arm, v. t. Army.]

Defn: A fleet of armed ships; a squadron. Specifically, the Spanish
fleet which was sent to assail England, a. d. 1558.

ARMADILLO
Ar`ma*dil"lo, n.; pl. Armadillos. Etym: [Sp. armadillo, dim. of
armado armed, p. p. of armar to arm. Do called from being armed with
a bony shell.] (Zoöl.)
(a) Any edentate animal if the family Dasypidæ, peculiar to America.
The body and head are incased in an armor composed of small bony
plates. The armadillos burrow in the earth, seldom going abroad
except at night. When attacked, they curl up into a ball, presenting
the armor on all sides. Their flesh is good food. There are several
species, one of which (the peba) is found as far north as Texas. See
Peba, Poyou, Tatouay.
(b) A genus of small isopod Crustacea that can roll themselves into a
ball.

ARMADO
Ar*ma"do, n.

Defn: Armada. [Obs.]

ARMAMENT
Ar"ma*ment, n. Etym: [L. armamenta, pl., utensils, esp. the tackle of
a ship, fr. armare to arm: cf. LL. armamentum, F. armement.]

1. A body of forces equipped for war; -- used of a land or naval
force. "The whole united armament of Greece." Glover.

2. (Mil. & Nav.)

Defn: All the cannon and small arms collectively, with their
equipments, belonging to a ship or a fortification.

3. Any equipment for resistance.

ARMAMENTARY
Ar`ma*men"ta*ry, n. Etym: [L. armamentarium, fr. armamentum: cf. F.
armamentaire.]

Defn: An armory; a magazine or arsenal. [R.]

ARMATURE
Ar"ma*ture, n. Etym: [L. armatura, fr. armare to arm: cf. F.
armature. See Arm, v. t., Armor.]

1. Armor; whatever is worn or used for the protection and defense of
the body, esp. the protective outfit of some animals and plants.

2. (Magnetism)

Defn: A piece of soft iron used to connect the two poles of a magnet,
or electro-magnet, in order to complete the circuit, or to receive
and apply the magnetic force. In the ordinary horseshoe magnet, it
serves to prevent the dissipation of the magnetic force.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: Iron bars or framing employed for the consolidation of a
building, as in sustaining slender columns, holding up canopies, etc.
Oxf. Gloss.

ARMCHAIR
Arm"chair`, n.

Defn: A chair with arms to support the elbows or forearms. Tennyson.

ARMED
Armed, a.

1. Furnished with weapons of offense or defense; furnished with the
means of security or protection. "And armed host." Dryden.

2. Furnished with whatever serves to add strength, force, or
efficiency.
A distemper eminently armed from heaven. De Foe.

3. (Her.)

Defn: Having horns, beak, talons, etc; -- said of beasts and birds of
prey. Armed at all points (Blazoning), completely incased in armor,
sometimes described as armed cap-à-pie. Cussans.
 -- Armed en flute. (Naut.) See under Flute.
 -- Armed magnet, a magnet provided with an armature.
 -- Armed neutrality. See under Neutrality.

ARMENIAN
Ar*me"ni*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. Arménien, L. Armenias, fr. Armenia.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Armenia. Armenian bole, a soft clayey earth
of a bright red color found in Armenia, Tuscany, etc.
 -- Armenian stone. (a) The commercial name of lapis lazuli. (b)
Emery.

ARMENIAN
Ar*me"ni*an, n.

1. A native or one of the people of Armenia; also, the language of
the Armenians.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: An adherent of the Armenian Church, an organization similar in
some doctrines and practices to the Greek Church, in others to the
Roman Catholic.

ARMET
Arm"et, n. Etym: [F., dim. of arme arm, or corrupted for healmet
helmet.]

Defn: A kind of helmet worn in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries.

ARMFUL
Arm"ful, n.; pl. Armfulus.

Defn: As much as the arm can hold.

ARMGAUNT
Arm"gaunt`, a.

Defn: With gaunt or slender legs. "An armgaunt steed." Shak.

Note: This word is peculiar to Shakespeare. Its meaning has not yet
been satisfactorily explained.

ARM-GRET
Arm"-gret`, a.

Defn: Great as a man's arm. [Obs.]
A wreath of gold, arm-gret. Chaucer.

ARMHOLE
Arm"hole`, n. Etym: [Arm + hole.]

1. The cavity under the shoulder; the armpit. Bacon.

2. A hole for the arm in a garment.

ARMIFEROUS
Ar*mif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. armifer; arma arms + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Bearing arms or weapons. [R.]

ARMIGER
Ar"mi*ger, n. Etym: [L. armiger armor bearer; arma arms + gerere to
bear.]

Defn: Formerly, an armor bearer, as of a knight, an esquire who bore
his shield and rendered other services. In later use, one next in
degree to a knight, and entitled to armorial bearings. The term is
now superseded by esquire. Jacob.

ARMIGEROUS
Ar*mig"er*ous, a.

Defn: Bearing arms. [R.]
They belonged to the armigerous part of the population, and were
entitled to write themselves Esquire. De Quincey.

ARMIL
Ar"mil, n. Etym: [L. armilla a bracelet, fr. armus arm: cf. OF.
armille.]

1. A bracelet. [Obs.]

2. An ancient astronomical instrument.

Note: When composed of one ring placed in the plane of the equator
for determining the time of the equinoxes, it is called an
equinoctial armil; when of two or more rings, one in the plane of the
meridian, for observing the solstices, it is called a solstitial
armil. Whewell.

ARMILLA
Ar*mil"la, n.; pl. E. Armillas, L. Armillæ. Etym: [L., a bracelet.]

1. An armil.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A ring of hair or feathers on the legs.

ARMILLARY
Ar"mil*la*ry, a. Etym: [LL. armillarius, fr. L. armilla arm ring,
bracelet, fr. armus arm: cf. F. armillaire. See Arm, n.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a bracelet or ring; consisting of
rings or circles. Armillary sphere, an ancient astronomical machine
composed of an assemblage of rings, all circles of the same sphere,
designed to represent the positions of the important circles of the
celestial sphere. Nichol.

ARMING
Arm"ing, n.

1. The act of furnishing with, or taking, arms.
The arming was now universal. Macaulay.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A piece of tallow placed in a cavity at the lower end of a
sounding lead, to bring up the sand, shells, etc., of the sea bottom.
Totten.

3. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Red dress cloths formerly hung fore and aft outside of a ship's
upper works on holidays. Arming press (Bookbinding), a press for
stamping titles and designs on the covers of books.

ARMINIAN
Ar*min"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Arminius of his followers, or to their
doctrines. See note under Arminian, n.

ARMINIAN
Ar*min"i*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who holds the tenets of Arminius, a Dutch divine (b. 1560,
d. 1609).

Note: The Arminian doctrines are: 1. Conditional election and
reprobation, in opposition to absolute predestination. 2. Universal
redemption, or that the atonement was made by Christ for all mankind,
though none but believers can be partakers of the benefit. 3. That
man, in order to exercise true faith, must be regenerated and renewed
by the operation of the Holy Spirit, which is the gift of God. 4.
That man may resist divine grace. 5. That man may relapse from a
state of grace.

ARMINIANISM
Ar*min"i*an*ism, n.

Defn: The religious doctrines or tenets of the Arminians.

ARMIPOTENCE
Ar*mip"o*tence, n. Etym: [L. armipotentia, fr. armipotents.]

Defn: Power in arms. [R.] Johnson.

ARMIPOTENT
Ar*mip"o*tent, a. Etym: [L. armipotents; arma arms + potens powerful,
p. pr. of posse to be able.]

Defn: Powerful in arms; mighty in battle.
The temple stood of Mars armipotent. Dryden.

ARMISONANT; ARMISONOUS
Ar*mis"o*nant, Ar*mis"o*nous, a. Etym: [L. armisonus; arma arms +
sonare (p. pr. sonans) to sound.]

Defn: Rustling in arms; resounding with arms. [Obs.]

ARMISTICE
Ar"mis*tice, n. Etym: [F. armistice, fr. (an assumed word) L.
armistitium; arma arms + stare, statum (combining form, -stitum), to
stand still.]

Defn: A cessation of arms for a short time, by convention; a
temporary suspension of hostilities by agreement; a truce.

ARMLESS
Arm"less, a.

1. Without any arm or branch.

2. Destitute of arms or weapons.

ARMLET
Arm"let, n. Etym: [Arm + -let.]

1. A small arm; as, an armlet of the sea. Johnson.

2. An arm ring; a bracelet for the upper arm.

3. Armor for the arm.

ARMONIAC
Ar*mo"ni*ac, a.

Defn: Ammoniac. [Obs.]

ARMOR
Ar"mor, n. Etym: [OE. armure, fr. F. armure, OF. armeure, fr. L.
armatura. See Armature.] [Spelt also armour.]

1. Defensive arms for the body; any clothing or covering worn to
protect one's person in battle.

Note: In English statues, armor is used for the whole apparatus of
war, including offensive as well as defensive arms. The statues of
armor directed what arms every man should provide.

2. Steel or iron covering, whether of ships or forts, protecting them
from the fire of artillery. Coat armor, the escutcheon of a person or
family, with its several charges and other furniture, as mantling,
crest, supporters, motto, etc.
 -- Submarine, a water-tight dress or covering for a diver. See under
Submarine.

ARMOR-BEARER
Ar"mor-bear`er, n.

Defn: One who carries the armor or arms of another; an armiger. Judg.
ix. 54.

ARMORED
Ar"mored, a.

Defn: Clad with armor.

ARMORED CRUISER
Ar"mored cruis"er. (Nav.)

Defn: A man-of-war carrying a large coal supply, and more or less
protected from the enemy's shot by iron or steel armor. There is no
distinct and accepted classification distinguishing armored and
protected cruisers from each other, except that the first have more
or heavier armor than the second.

ARMORER
Ar"mor*er, n. Etym: [OE. armurer, armerer, fr. F. armurter, fr.
armure armor.]

1. One who makes or repairs armor or arms.

2. Formerly, one who had care of the arms and armor of a knight, and
who dressed him in armor. Shak.

3. One who has the care of arms and armor, cleans or repairs them,
etc.

ARMORIAL
Ar*mo"ri*al, a. Etym: [F. armorial, fr. armoiries arms, coats of
arms, for armoieries, fr. OF. armoier to paint arms, coats of arms,
fr. armes, fr. L. arma. See Arms, Armory.]

Defn: Belonging to armor, or to the heraldic arms or escutcheon of a
family.
Figures with armorial signs of race and birth. Wordsworth.
Armorial bearings. See Arms, 4.

ARMORIC; ARMORICAN
Ar*mor"ic, Ar*mor"i*can, a. Etym: [L. Armoricus, fr. Celtic ar on, at
+ mor sea.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the northwestern part of France (formerly
called Armorica, now Bretagne or Brittany), or to its people.
 -- n.

Defn: The language of the Armoricans, a Celtic dialect which has
remained to the present times.

ARMORICAN
Ar*mor"i*can, n.

Defn: A native of Armorica.

ARMORIST
Ar"mor*ist, n. Etym: [F. armoriste.]

Defn: One skilled in coat armor or heraldry. Cussans.

ARMOR-PLATED
Ar"mor-plat`ed, a.

Defn: Covered with defensive plates of metal, as a ship of war;
steel-clad.
This day will be launched . . . the first armor-plated steam frigate
in the possession of Great Britain. Times (Dec. 29, 1860).

ARMORY
Ar"mo*ry, n.; pl. Armories. Etym: [OF. armaire, armarie, F. armoire,
fr. L. armarium place for keeping arms; but confused with F.
armoiries. See Armorial, Ambry.]

1. A place where arms and instruments of war are deposited for safe
keeping.

2. Armor: defensive and offensive arms.
Celestial armory, shields, helms, and spears. Milton.

3. A manufactory of arms, as rifles, muskets, pistols, bayonets,
swords. [U.S.]

4. Ensigns armorial; armorial bearings. Spensplw.

5. That branch of hplwaldry which treats of coat armor.
The science of heraldry, or, more justly speaking, armory, which is
but one branch of heraldry, is, without doubt, of very ancient
origin. Cussans.

ARMOZEEN; ARMOZINE
Ar`mo*zeen", Ar`mo*zine", n. Etym: [armosin, armoisin.]

Defn: A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical.
Simmonds.

ARMPIT
Arm"pit`, n. Etym: [Arm + pit.]

Defn: The hollow beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder; the
axilla.

ARMRACK
Arm"rack`, n.

Defn: A frame, generally vertical, for holding small arms.

ARMS
Arms, n. pl. Etym: [OE. armes, F. arme, pl. armes, fr. L. arma, pl.,
arms, orig. fittings, akin to armus shoulder, and E. arm. See Arm,
n.]

1. Instruments or weapons of offense or defense.
He lays down his arms, but not his wiles. Milton.
Three horses and three goodly suits of arms. Tennyson.

2. The deeds or exploits of war; military service or science. "Arms
and the man I sing." Dryden.

3. (Law)

Defn: Anything which a man takes in his hand in anger, to strike or
assault another with; an aggressive weapon. Cowell. Blackstone.

4. (Her.)

Defn: The ensigns armorial of a family, consisting of figures and
colors borne in shields, banners, etc., as marks of dignity and
distinction, and descending from father to son.

5. (Falconry)

Defn: The legs of a hawk from the thigh to the foot. Halliwell. Bred
to arms, educated to the profession of a soldier.
 -- In arms, armed for war; in a state of hostility.
 -- Small arms, portable firearms known as muskets, rifles, carbines,
pistols, etc.
 -- A stand of arms, a complete set for one soldier, as a musket,
bayonet, cartridge box and belt; frequently, the musket and bayonet
alone.
 -- To arms! a summons to war or battle.
 -- Under arms, armed and equipped and in readiness for battle, or
for a military parade. Arm's end, Arm's length, Arm's reach. See
under Arm.

ARMURE
Ar"mure, n. Etym: [F. See Armor.]

1. Armor. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A variety of twilled fabric ribbed on the surface.

ARMY
Ar"my, n. Etym: [F. armée, fr. L. armata, fem. of armatus, p. p. of
armare to arm. Cf. Armada.]

1. A collection or body of men armed for war, esp. one organized in
companies, battalions, regiments, brigades, and divisions, under
proper officers.

2. A body of persons organized for the advancement of a cause; as,
the Blue Ribbon Army.

3. A great number; a vast multitude; a host.
An army of good words. Shak.
Standing army, a permanent army of professional soldiers, as
distinguished from militia or volunteers.

ARMY ORGANIZATION
Army organization.

Defn: The system by which a country raises, classifies, arranges, and
equips its armed land forces. The usual divisions are: (1) A regular
or active army, in which soldiers serve continuously with the colors
and live in barracks or cantonments when not in the field; (2) the
reserves of this army, in which the soldiers, while remaining
constantly subject to a call to the colors, live at their homes,
being summoned more or less frequently to report for instruction,
drill, or maneuvers; and (3) one or more classes of soldiers
organized largely for territorial defense, living at home and having
only occasional periods of drill and instraction, who are variously
called home reserves (as in the table below), second, third, etc.,
line of defense (the regular army and its reserves ordinarily
constituting the first line of defense), territorial forces, or the
like. In countries where conscription prevails a soldier is supposed
to serve a given number of years.  He is usually enrolled first in
the regular army, then passes to its reserve, then into the home
reserves, to serve until he reaches the age limit. It for any reason
he is not enrolled in the regular army, he may begin his service in
the army reserves or even the home reserves, but then serves the full
number of years or up to the age limit. In equipment the organization
of the army is into the three great arms of infantry, cavalry, and
artillery, together with more or less numerous other branches, such
as engineers, medical corps, etc., besides the staff organizations
such as those of the pay and subsistence departments.

ARMY WORM
Ar"my worm`. (Zoöl.)
(a) A lepidopterous insect, which in the larval state often travels
in great multitudes from field to field, destroying grass, grain, and
other crops. The common army worm of the northern United States is
Leucania unipuncta. The name is often applied to other related
species, as the cotton worm.
(b) The larva of a small two-winged fly (Sciara), which marches in
large companies, in regular order. See Cotton worm, under Cotton.

ARNA; ARNEE
Ar"na, Ar"nee, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wild buffalo of India (Bos, or Bubalus, arni), larger than
the domestic buffalo and having enormous horns.

ARNATTO
Ar*nat"to, n.

Defn: See Annotto.

ARNAUT; ARNAOUT
Ar*naut"  Ar*naout", n. [Turk. Arnaut, fr. NGr. , for .]

Defn: An inhabitant of Albania and neighboring mountainous regions,
specif. one serving as a soldier in the Turkish army.

ARNICA
Ar"ni*ca, n. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of ptarmica.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants; also, the most important species (Arnica
montana), native of the mountains of Europe, used in medicine as a
narcotic and stimulant.

Note: The tincture of arnica is applied externally as a remedy for
bruises, sprains, etc.

ARNICIN
Ar"ni*cin, n. Etym: [See Arnica.] (Chem.)

Defn: An active principle of Arnica montana. It is a bitter resin.

ARNICINE
Ar"ni*cine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid obtained from the arnica plant.

ARNOT; ARNUT
Ar"not, Ar"nut, n. Etym: [Cf. D. aardnoot, E. earthut.]

Defn: The earthnut. [Obs.]

ARNOTTO
Ar*not"to, n.

Defn: Same as Annotto.

AROID; AROIDEOUS
A"roid, A*roid"e*ous, a. Etym: [Arum + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, the Arum family of plants.

AROINT
A*roint", interj. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. rynt, rynt thee, roynt, or
runt, terms used by milkmaids to a cow that has been milked, in order
to drive her away, to make room for others; AS. r to make room or
way, fr. r room. The final t is perh. for ta, for thou. Cf. Room
space.]

Defn: Stand off, or begone. [Obs.]
Aroint thee, witch, the rump-fed ronyon cries. Shak.

AROINT
A*roint", v. t.

Defn: To drive or scare off by some exclamation. [R.] "Whiskered cats
arointed flee." Mrs. Browning.

AROLLA
A*rol"la (a*rol"la), n. [F. arolle.] (Bot.)

Defn: The stone pine (Pinus Cembra).

AROMA
A*ro"ma, n. Etym: [L. aroma, Gr. aromaz, aromat, spice, F. aromate.]

1. The quality or principle of plants or other substances which
constitutes their fragrance; agreeable odor; as, the aroma of coffee.

2. Fig.: The fine diffusive quality of intellectual power; flavor;
as, the subtile aroma of genius.

AROMATIC; AROMATICAL
Ar`o*mat"ic, Ar`o*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. aromaticus, Gr. aromatique.
See Aroma.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, aroma; fragrant; spicy; strong-
scented; odoriferous; as, aromatic balsam. Aromatic compound (Chem.),
one of a large class of organic substances, as the oils of bitter
almonds, wintergreen, and turpentine, the balsams, camphors, etc.,
many of which have an aromatic odor. They include many of the most
important of the carbon compounds and may all be derived from the
benzene group, C6H6. The term is extended also to many of their
derivatives.
 -- Aromatic vinegar. See under Vinegar.

AROMATIC
Ar`o*mat"ic, n.

Defn: A plant, drug, or medicine, characterized by a fragrant smell,
and usually by a warm, pungent taste, as ginger, cinnamon spices.

AROMATIZATION
Ar`o*mat`i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aromatisation.]

Defn: The act of impregnating or secting with aroma.

AROMATIZE
A*ro"ma*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aromatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aromatizing.] Etym: [L. aromatizare, Gr. aromatiser.]

Defn: To impregnate with aroma; to render aromatic; to give a spicy
scent or taste to; to perfume. Bacon.

AROMATIZER
A*ro"ma*ti`zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, aromatizes or renders aromatic. Evelyn.

AROMATOUS
A*ro"ma*tous, a.

Defn: Aromatic. [Obs.] Caxton.

AROPH
Ar"oph, n. Etym: [A contraction of aroma philosophorum.]

Defn: A barbarous word used by the old chemists to designate various
medical remedies. [Obs.]

AROSE
A*rose".

Defn: The past or preterit tense of Arise.

AROUND
A*round", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + round.]

1. In a circle; circularly; on every side; round.

2. In a circuit; here and there within the surrounding space; all
about; as, to travel around from town to town.

3. Near; in the neighborhood; as, this man was standing around when
the fight took place. [Colloq. U. S.]

Note: See Round, the shorter form, adv. & prep., which, in some of
the meanings, is more commonly used.

AROUND
A*round", prep.

1. On all sides of; encircling; encompassing; so as to make the
circuit of; about.
A lambent flame arose, which gently spread Around his brows. Dryden.

2. From one part to another of; at random through; about; on another
side of; as, to travel around the country; a house standing around
the corner. [Colloq. U. S.]

AROUSAL
A*rous"al, n.

Defn: The act of arousing, or the state of being aroused.
Whatever has associated itself with the arousal and activity of our
better nature. Hare.

AROUSE
A*rouse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aroused; p. pr. & vb. n. Arousing.]
Etym: [Pref. a- + rouse.]

Defn: To excite to action from a state of rest; to stir, or put in
motion or exertion; to rouse; to excite; as, to arouse one from
sleep; to arouse the dormant faculties.
Grasping his spear, forth issued to arouse His brother, mighty
sovereign on the host. Cowper.
No suspicion was aroused. Merivale.

AROW
A*row", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + row.]

Defn: In a row, line, or rank; successively; in order. Shak.
And twenty, rank in rank, they rode arow. Dryden.

AROYNT
A*roynt", interj.

Defn: See Aroint.

ARPEGGIO
Ar*peg"gio, n. Etym: [It., fr. arpeggiare to play on the harp, fr.
arpa harp.] (Mus.)

Defn: The production of the tones of a chord in rapid succession, as
in playing the harp, and not simultaneously; a strain thus played.

ARPENT; ARPEN
Ar"pent, Ar"pen, n. Etym: [F. arpent, fr. L. arepennis, arapennis.
According to Columella, a Gallic word for a measure equiv. to half a
Roman jugerum.]

Defn: Formerly, a measure of land in France, varying in different
parts of the country. The arpent of Paris was 4,088 sq. yards, or
nearly five sixths of an English acre. The woodland arpent was about
1 acre, 1 rood, 1 perch, English.

ARPENTATOR
Ar`pen*ta"tor, n. Etym: [See Arpent.]

Defn: The Anglicized form of the French arpenteur, a land surveyor.
[R.]

ARPINE
Ar"pine, n.

Defn: An arpent. [Obs.] Webster (1623).

ARQUATED
Ar"qua*ted, a.

Defn: Shaped like a bow; arcuate; curved. [R.]

ARQUEBUS; ARQUEBUSE
Ar"que*bus, Ar"que*buse, n. Etym: [F. arquebuse, OF. harquebuse, fr.
D. haak-bus; cf. G. hakenbüchse a gun with a hook. See Hagbut.]

Defn: A sort of hand gun or firearm a contrivance answering to a
trigger, by which the burning match was applied. The musket was a
later invention. [Written also harquebus.]

ARQUEBUSADE
Ar`que*bus*ade", n. Etym: [F. arquebusade shot of an arquebus; eau
d'arquebusade a vulnerary for gunshot wounds.]

1. The shot of an arquebus. Ash.

2. A distilled water from a variety of aromatic plants, as rosemary,
millefoil, etc.; -- originally used as a vulnerary in gunshot wounds.
Parr.

ARQUEBUSIER
Ar`que*bus*ier, n. Etym: [F. arquebusier.]

Defn: A soldier armed with an arquebus.
Soldiers armed with guns, of whatsoever sort or denomination, appear
to have been called arquebusiers. E. Lodge.

ARQUIFOUX
Ar"qui*foux, n.

Defn: Same as Alquifou.

ARRACH
Ar"rach, n.

Defn: See Orach.

ARRACK
Ar"rack, n. Etym: [Ar. araq sweat, juice, spirituous liquor, fr.
araqa to sweat. Cf. Rack arrack.]

Defn: A name in the East Indies and the Indian islands for all ardent
spirits. Arrack is often distilled from a fermented mixture of rice,
molasses, and palm wine of the cocoanut tree or the date palm, etc.

ARRAGONITE
Ar*rag"o*nite, n.

Defn: See Aragonite.

ARRAIGN
Ar*raign", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arraigned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Arraigning.] Etym: [OE. arainen, arenen, OF. aragnier, aranier,
araisnier, F. arraisonner, fr. LL. arrationare to address to call
before court; L. ad + ratio reason, reasoning, LL. cause, judgment.
See Reason.]

1. (Law)

Defn: To call or set as a prisoner at the bar of a court to answer to
the matter charged in an indictment or complaint. Blackstone.

2. To call to account, or accuse, before the bar of reason, taste, or
any other tribunal.
They will not arraign you for want of knowledge. Dryden.
It is not arrogance, but timidity, of which the Christian body should
now be arraigned by the world. I. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To accuse; impeach; charge; censure; criminate; indict; denounce.
See Accuse.

ARRAIGN
Ar*raign", n.

Defn: Arraignment; as, the clerk of the arraigns. Blackstone.
Macaulay.

ARRAIGN
Ar*raign", v. t. Etym: [From OF. aramier, fr. LL. adhramire.] (Old
Eng. Law)

Defn: To appeal to; to demand; as, to arraign an assize of novel
disseizin.

ARRAIGNER
Ar*raign"er, n.

Defn: One who arraigns. Coleridge.

ARRAIGNMENT
Ar*raign"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. arraynement, aresnement.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The act of arraigning, or the state of being arraigned; the act
of calling and setting a prisoner before a court to answer to an
indictment or complaint.

2. A calling to an account to faults; accusation.
In the sixth satire, which seems only an Arraignment of the whole
sex, there is a latent admonition. Dryden.

ARRAIMENT; ARRAYMENT
Ar*rai"ment, Ar*ray"ment, n. Etym: [From Array, v. t.]

Defn: Clothes; raiment. [Obs.]

ARRANGE
Ar*range", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arranged; p. pr. & vb. n. Arranging.]
Etym: [OE. arayngen, OF. arengier, F. arranger, fr. a (L. ad) + OF.
rengier, rangier, F. ranger. See Range, v. t.]

1. To put in proper order; to dispose (persons, or parts) in the
manner intended, or best suited for the purpose; as, troops arranged
for battle.
So [they] came to the market place, and there he arranged his men in
the streets. Berners.
[They] were beginning to arrange their hampers. Boswell.
A mechanism previously arranged. Paley.

2. To adjust or settle; to prepare; to determine; as, to arrange the
preliminaries of an undertaking.

Syn.
 -- Adjust; adapt; range; dispose; classify.

ARRANGEMENT
Ar*range"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. arrangement.]

1. The act of arranging or putting in an orderly condition; the state
of being arranged or put in order; disposition in suitable form.

2. The manner or result of arranging; system of parts disposed in due
order; regular and systematic classification; as, arrangement of
one's dress; the Linnæan arrangement of plants.

3. Preparatory proceeding or measure; preparation; as, we have made
arrangement for receiving company.

4. Settlement; adjustment by agreement; as, the parties have made an
arrangement between themselves concerning their disputes; a
satisfactory arrangement.

5. (Mus.)
(a) The adaptation of a composition to voices or instruments for
which it was not originally written.
(b) A piece so adapted; a transcription; as, a pianoforte arrangement
of Beethoven's symphonies; an orchestral arrangement of a song, an
opera, or the like.

ARRANGER
Ar*ran"ger, n.

Defn: One who arranges. Burke.

ARRANT
Ar"rant, a. Etym: [OE. erraunt, errant, errand, equiv. to E. errant
wandering, which was first applied to vagabonds, as an errant rogue,
an errant thief, and hence passed gradually into its present and
worse sense. See Errant.]

Defn: Notoriously or preëminently bad; thorough or downright, in a
bad sense; shameless; unmitigated; as, an arrant rogue or coward.
I discover an arrant laziness in my soul. Fuller.

2. Thorough or downright, in a good sense. [Obs.]
An arrant honest woman. Burton.

ARRANTLY
Ar"rant*ly, adv.

Defn: Notoriously, in an ill sense; infamously; impudently;
shamefully. L'Estrange.

ARRAS
Ar"ras, n. Etym: [From Arras the capital of Artois, in the French
Netherlands.]

Defn: Tapestry; a rich figured fabric; especially, a screen or
hangings of heavy cloth with interwoven figures.
Stateliest couches, with rich arras spread. Cowper.
Behind the arras I'll convey myself. Shak.

ARRAS
Ar"ras, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with an arras. Chapman.

ARRASENE
Ar`ras*ene", n. Etym: [From Arras.]

Defn: A material of wool or silk used for working the figures in
embroidery.

ARRASTRE
Ar*ras"tre, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A rude apparatus for pulverizing ores, esp. those containing
free gold.

ARRASWISE; ARRASWAYS
Ar"ras*wise`, Ar"ras*ways`, adv. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of
arriswise. See Arris.]

Defn: Placed in such a position as to exhibit the top and two sides,
the corner being in front; -- said of a rectangular form. Encyc.
Brit. Cussans.

ARRAUGHT
Ar*raught". Etym: [The past tense of an old v. areach or arreach. Cf.
Reach, obs. pret. raught.]

Defn: Obtained; seized. Spenser.

ARRAY
Ar*ray", n. Etym: [OE. arai, arrai, OF. arrai, arrei, arroi, order,
arrangement, dress, F. arroi; a (L. ad) + OF. rai, rei, roi, order,
arrangement, fr. G. or Scand.; cf. Goth. raidjan, garaidjan, to
arrange, MHG. gereiten, Icel. reithi rigging, harness; akin to E.
ready. Cf. Ready, Greith, Curry.]

1. Order; a regular and imposing arrangement; disposition in regular
lines; hence, order of battle; as, drawn up in battle array.
Wedged together in the closest array. Gibbon.

2. The whole body of persons thus placed in order; an orderly
collection; hence, a body of soldiers.
A gallant array of nobles and cavaliers. Prescott.

3. An imposing series of things.
Their long array of sapphire and of gold. Byron.

4. Dress; garments disposed in order upon the person; rich or
beautiful apparel. Dryden.

5. (Law)
(a) A ranking or setting forth in order, by the proper officer, of a
jury as impaneled in a cause.
(b) The panel itself.
(c) The whole body of jurors summoned to attend the court. To
challenge the array (Law), to except to the whole panel. Cowell.
Tomlins. Blount.
 -- Commission of array (Eng. Hist.), a commission given by the
prince to officers in every county, to muster and array the
inhabitants, or see them in a condition for war. Blackstone.

ARRAY
Ar*ray", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arrayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Arraying.]
Etym: [OE. araien, arraien, fr. OE. arraier, arreier, arreer,
arroier, fr. arrai. See Array, n.]

1. To place or dispose in order, as troops for battle; to marshal.
By torch and trumpet fast arrayed, Each horseman drew his battle
blade. Campbell.
These doubts will be arrayed before their minds. Farrar.

2. To deck or dress; to adorn with dress; to cloth to envelop; --
applied esp. to dress of a splendid kind.
Pharaoh . . . arrayed him in vestures of fine linen. Gen. xli.
In gelid caves with horrid gloom arrayed. Trumbull.

3. (Law)

Defn: To set in order, as a jury, for the trial of a cause; that is,
to call them man by man. Blackstone. To array a panel, to set forth
in order the men that are impaneled. Cowell. Tomlins.

Syn.
 -- To draw up; arrange; dispose; set in order.

ARRAYER
Ar*ray"er, n.

Defn: One who arrays. In some early English statutes, applied to an
officer who had care of the soldiers' armor, and who saw them duly
accoutered.

ARREAR
Ar*rear", adv. Etym: [OE. arere, OF. arere, ariere, F. arrière, fr.
L. ad + retro backward. See Rear.]

Defn: To or in the rear; behind; backwards. [Obs.] Spenser.

ARREAR
Ar*rear", n.

Defn: That which is behind in payment, or which remains unpaid,
though due; esp. a remainder, or balance which remains due when some
part has been paid; arrearage; -- commonly used in the plural, as,
arrears of rent, wages, or taxes. Locke.
For much I dread due payment by the Greeks Of yesterday's arrear.
Cowper.
I have a large arrear of letters to write. J. D. Forbes.
In arrear or In arrears, behind; backward; behindhand; in debt.

ARREARAGE
Ar*rear"age, n. Etym: [F. arrérage, fr. arrière, OF. arere. See
Arrear.]

Defn: That which remains unpaid and overdue, after payment of a part;
arrears.
The old arrearages . . . being defrayed. Howell.

ARRECT; ARRECTED
Ar*rect", Ar*rect"ed, a. Etym: [L. arrectus, p. p. of arrigere to
raise, erect; ad + regere to lead straight, to direct.]

1. Lifted up; raised; erect.

2. Attentive, as a person listening. [Obs.]
God speaks not the idle and unconcerned hearer, but to the vigilant
and arrect. Smalridge.

ARRECT
Ar*rect", v. t.

1. To direct. [Obs.]
My supplication to you I arrect. Skelton.

2. Etym: [See Aret.]

Defn: To impute. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

ARRECTARY
Ar*rect"a*ry, n. Etym: [L. arrectarius, fr. arrigere o set up.]

Defn: An upright beam. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ARRENOTOKOUS
Ar`re*not"o*kous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Producing males from unfertilized eggs, as certain wasps and
bees.

ARRENTATION
Ar`ren*ta"tion. Etym: [Cf. F. arrenter to give or take as rent. See
Arendator.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A letting or renting, esp. a license to inclose land in a
forest with a low hedge and a ditch, under a yearly rent.

ARREPTION
Ar*rep"tion, n. Etym: [L. arripere, arreptum, to seize, snatch; ad +
rapere to snatch. See Rapacious.]

Defn: The act of taking away. [Obs.] "This arreption was sudden." Bp.
Hall.

ARREPTITIOUS
Ar`rep*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. arreptitius.]

Defn: Snatched away; seized or possessed, as a demoniac; raving; mad;
crack-brained. [Obs.]
Odd, arreptitious, frantic extravagances. Howell.

ARREST
Ar*rest", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arrested; p. pr. & vb. n. Arresting.]
Etym: [OE. aresten, OF. arester, F. arrêter, fr. LL. arrestare; L. ad
+ restare to remain, stop; re + stare to stand. See Rest remainder.]

1. To stop; to check or hinder the motion or action of; as, to arrest
the current of a river; to arrest the senses.
Nor could her virtues the relentless hand Of Death arrest. Philips.

2. (Law)

Defn: To take, seize, or apprehend by authority of law; as, to arrest
one for debt, or for a crime.

Note: After his word Shakespeare uses of ("I arrest thee of high
treason") or on; the modern usage is for.

3. To seize on and fix; to hold; to catch; as, to arrest the eyes or
attention. Buckminster.

4. To rest or fasten; to fix; to concentrate. [Obs.]
We may arrest our thoughts upon the divine mercies. Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To obstruct; delay; detain; check; hinder; stop; apprehend;
seize; lay hold of.

ARREST
Ar*rest", v. i.

Defn: To tarry; to rest. [Obs.] Spenser.

ARREST
Ar*rest", n. Etym: [OE. arest, arrest, OF. arest, F. arrêt, fr.
arester. See Arrest, v. t., Arr.]

1. The act of stopping, or restraining from further motion, etc.;
stoppage; hindrance; restraint; as, an arrest of development.
As the arrest of the air showeth. Bacon.

2. (Law)

Defn: The taking or apprehending of a person by authority of law;
legal restraint; custody. Also, a decree, mandate, or warrant.
William . . . ordered him to be put under arrest. Macaulay.
[Our brother Norway] sends out arrests On Fortinbras; which he, in
brief, obeys. Shak.

Note: An arrest may be made by seizing or touching the body; but it
is sufficient in the party be within the power of the officer and
submit to the arrest. In Admiralty law, and in old English practice,
the term is applied to the seizure of property.

3. Any seizure by power, physical or moral.
The sad stories of fire from heaven, the burning of his sheep, etc.,
. . . were sad arrests to his troubled spirit. Jer. Taylor.

4. (Far.)

Defn: A scurfiness of the back part of the hind leg of a horse; --
also named rat-tails. White. Arrest of judgment (Law), the staying or
stopping of a judgment, after verdict, for legal cause. The motion
for this purpose is called a motion in arrest of judgment.

ARRESTATION
Ar`res*ta"tion, n. Etym: [F. arrestation, LL. arrestatio.]

Defn: Arrest. [R.]
The arrestation of the English resident in France was decreed by the
National Convention. H. M. Williams.

ARRESTEE
Ar`res*tee", n. Etym: [See Arrest, v.] (Scots Law)

Defn: The person in whose hands is the property attached by
arrestment.

ARRESTER
Ar*rest"er, n.

1. One who arrests.

2. (Scots Law)

Defn: The person at whose suit an arrestment is made. [Also written
arrestor.]

ARRESTING
Ar*rest"ing, a.

Defn: Striking; attracting attention; impressive.
This most solemn and arresting occurrence. J. H. Newman.

ARRESTIVE
Ar*rest"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to arrest. McCosh.

ARRESTMENT
Ar*rest"ment, n. Etym: [OF. arrestement.]

1. (Scots Law)

Defn: The arrest of a person, or the seizure of his effects; esp., a
process by which money or movables in the possession of a third party
are attached.

2. A stoppage or check. Darwin.

ARRET
Ar*rêt, n. Etym: [F. See Arrest, n.] (F. Law)
(a) A judgment, decision, or decree of a court or high tribunal;
also, a decree of a sovereign.
(b) An arrest; a legal seizure.

ARRET
Ar*ret", v. t.

Defn: Same as Aret. [Obs.] Spenser.

ARRHA
Ar"rha, n.; pl. Arrhæ (#). [L. Cf. Earnest.] (Law)

Defn: Money or other valuable thing given to evidence a contract; a
pledge or earnest.

ARRHAPHOSTIC
Ar`rha*phos"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Seamless. [R.]

ARRHIZAL; ARRHIZOUS
Ar*rhi"zal, Ar*rhi"zous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of a true root, as a parasitical plant.

ARRHYTHMIC; ARRHYTHMOUS
Ar*rhyth"mic, Ar*rhyth"mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Being without rhythm or regularity, as the pulse.

ARRHYTMY
Ar"rhyt*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Want of rhythm. [R.]

ARRIDE
Ar*ride", v. t. Etym: [L. arridere; ad + ridere to laugh.]

Defn: To please; to gratify. [Archaic] B. Jonson.
Above all thy rarities, old Oxenford, what do most arride and solace
me are thy repositories of moldering learning. Lamb.

ARRIERE
Ar*riere", n. Etym: [F. arrière. See Arrear.]

Defn: "That which is behind"; the rear; -- chiefly used as an
adjective in the sense of behind, rear, subordinate. Arriere fee,
Arriere fief, a fee or fief dependent on a superior fee, or a fee
held of a feudatory.
 -- Arriere vassal, the vassal of a vassal.

ARRIERE-BAN
Ar*riere"-ban`, n. Etym: [F., fr. OE. arban, heriban, fr. OHG.
hariban, heriban, G. heerbann, the calling together of an army; OHG.
heri an army + ban a public call or order. The French have
misunderstood their old word, and have changed it into arrière-ban,
though arrière has no connection with its proper meaning. See Ban,
Abandon.]

Defn: A proclamation, as of the French kings, calling not only their
immediate feudatories, but the vassals of these feudatories, to take
the field for war; also, the body of vassals called or liable to be
called to arms, as in ancient France.

ARRIS
Ar"ris, n. Etym: [OF. areste, F. arête, fr. L. arista the top or
beard of an ear of grain, the bone of a fish.] (Arch.)

Defn: The sharp edge or salient angle formed by two surfaces meeting
each other, whether plane or curved; -- applied particularly to the
edges in moldings, and to the raised edges which separate the
flutings in a Doric column. P. Cyc. Arris fillet, a triangular piece
of wood used to raise the slates of a roof against a chimney or wall,
to throw off the rain. Gwilt.
 -- Arris gutter, a gutter of a V form fixed to the eaves of a
building. Gwilt.

ARRISH
Ar"rish, n. Etym: [See Eddish.]

Defn: The stubble of wheat or grass; a stubble field; eddish. [Eng.]
[Written also arish, ersh, etc.]
The moment we entered the stubble or arrish. Blackw. Mag.

ARRISWISE
Ar"ris*wise`, adv.

Defn: Diagonally laid, as tiles; ridgewise.

ARRIVAL
Ar*riv"al, n. Etym: [From Arrive.]

1. The act of arriving, or coming; the act of reaching a place from a
distance, whether by water (as in its original sense) or by land.
Our watchmen from the towers, with longing eyes, Expect his swift
arrival. Dryden.

2. The attainment or reaching of any object, by effort, or in natural
course; as, our arrival at this conclusion was wholly unexpected.

3. The person or thing arriving or which has arrived; as, news
brought by the last arrival.
Another arrival still more important was speedily announced.
Macaulay.

4. An approach. [Obs.]
The house has a corner arrival. H. Walpole.

ARRIVANCE
Ar*riv"ance, n.

Defn: Arrival. [Obs.] Shak.

ARRIVE
Ar*rive", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Arrived; p. pr. & vb. n. Arriving.]
Etym: [OE. ariven to arrive, land, OF. ariver, F. arriver, fr. LL.
arripare, adripare, to come to shore; L. ad + ripa the shore or
sloping bank of a river. Cf. Riparian.]

1. To come to the shore or bank. In present usage: To come in
progress by water, or by traveling on land; to reach by water or by
land; -- followed by at (formerly sometimes by to), also by in and
from. "Arrived in Padua." Shak.
[Æneas] sailing with a fleet from Sicily, arrived . . . and landed in
the country of Laurentum. Holland.
There was no outbreak till the regiment arrived at Ipswich. Macaulay.

2. To reach a point by progressive motion; to gain or compass an
object by effort, practice, study, inquiry, reasoning, or experiment.
To arrive at, or attain to.
When he arrived at manhood. Rogers.
We arrive at knowledge of a law of nature by the generalization of
facts. McCosh.
If at great things thou wouldst arrive. Milton.

3. To come; said of time; as, the time arrived.

4. To happen or occur. [Archaic]
Happy! to whom this glorious death arrives. Waller.

ARRIVE
Ar*rive", v. t.

1. To bring to shore. [Obs.]
And made the sea-trod ship arrive them. Chapman.

2. To reach; to come to. [Archaic]
Ere he arrive the happy isle. Milton.
Ere we could arrive the point proposed. Shak.
Arrive at last the blessed goal. Tennyson.

ARRIVE
Ar*rive", n.

Defn: Arrival. [Obs.] Chaucer.
How should I joy of thy arrive to hear! Drayton.

ARRIVER
Ar*riv"er, n.

Defn: One who arrives.

ARROBA
Ar*ro"ba, n. Etym: [Sp. and Pg., from Ar. arrub, ar-rubu, a fourth
part.]

1. A Spanish weight used in Mexico and South America = 25.36 lbs.
avoir.; also, an old Portuguese weight, used in Brazil = 32.38 lbs.
avoir.

2. A Spanish liquid measure for wine = 3.54 imp. gallons, and for oil
= 2.78 imp. gallons.

ARROGANCE
Ar"ro*gance, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. arrogantia, fr. arrogans. See
Arrogant.]

Defn: The act or habit of arrogating, or making undue claims in an
overbearing manner; that species of pride which consists in
exorbitant claims of rank, dignity, estimation, or power, or which
exalts the worth or importance of the person to an undue degree;
proud contempt of others; lordliness; haughtiness; self-assumption;
presumption.
I hate not you for her proud arrogance. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Haughtiness; hauteur; assumption; lordliness; presumption; pride;
disdain; insolence; conceit; conceitedness. See Haughtiness.

ARROGANCY
Ar"ro*gan*cy, n.

Defn: Arrogance. Shak.

ARROGANT
Ar"ro*gant, a. Etym: [F. arrogant, L. arrogans, p. pr. of arrogare.
See Arrogate.]

1. Making, or having the disposition to make, exorbitant claims of
rank or estimation; giving one's self an undue degree of importance;
assuming; haughty; -- applied to persons.
Arrogant Winchester, that haughty prelate. Shak.

2. Containing arrogance; marked with arrogance; proceeding from undue
claims or self-importance; -- applied to things; as, arrogant
pretensions or behavior.

Syn.
 -- Magisterial; lordly; proud; assuming; overbearing; presumptuous;
haughty. See Magisterial.

ARROGANTLY
Ar"ro*gant*ly, adv.

Defn: In an arrogant manner; with undue pride or self-importance.

ARROGANTNESS
Ar"ro*gant*ness, n.

Defn: Arrogance. [R.]

ARROGATE
Ar"ro*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arrogated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Arrogating.] Etym: [L. arrogatus, p. p. of adrogare, arrogare, to
ask, appropriate to one's self; ad + rogare to ask. See Rogation.]

Defn: To assume, or claim as one's own, unduly, proudly, or
presumptuously; to make undue claims to, from vanity or baseless
pretensions to right or merit; as, the pope arrogated dominion over
kings.
He arrogated to himself the right of deciding dogmatically what was
orthodox doctrine. Macaulay.

ARROGATION
Ar`ro*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. arrogatio, fr. arrogare. Cf. Adrogation.]

1. The act of arrogating, or making exorbitant claims; the act of
taking more than one is justly entitled to. Hall.

2. (Civ. Law)

Defn: Adoption of a person of full age.

ARROGATIVE
Ar"ro*ga*tive, a.

Defn: Making undue claims and pretension; prone to arrogance. [R.]
Dr. H. More.

ARRONDISSEMENT
Ar`ron`disse`ment", n. Etym: [F., fr. arrondir to make round; ad +
rond round, L. rotundus.]

Defn: A subdivision of a department. [France]

Note: The territory of France, since the revolution, has been divided
into departments, those into arrondissements, those into cantons, and
the latter into communes.

ARROSE
Ar*rose", v. t. Etym: [F. arroser.]

Defn: To drench; to besprinkle; to moisten. [Obs.]
The blissful dew of heaven does arrose you. Two N. Kins.

ARROSION
Ar*ro"sion, n. Etym: [L. arrodere, arrosum, to gnaw: cf. F.
arrosion.]

Defn: A gnawing. [Obs.] Bailey.

ARROW
Ar"row, n. Etym: [OE. arewe, AS. arewe, earh; akin to Icel. ör,
örvar, Goth. arhwazna, and perh. L. arcus bow. Cf. Arc.]

Defn: A missile weapon of offense, slender, pointed, and usually
feathered and barbed, to be shot from a bow. Broad arrow. (a) An
arrow with a broad head. (b) A mark placed upon British ordnance and
government stores, which bears a rude resemblance to a broad
arrowhead.

ARROW GRASS
Ar"row grass`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An herbaceous grasslike plant (Triglochin palustre, and other
species) with pods opening so as to suggest barbed arrowheads.

ARROWHEAD
Ar"row*head`, n.

1. The head of an arrow.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An aquatic plant of the genus Sagittaria, esp. S. sagittifolia,
-- named from the shape of the leaves.

ARROWHEADED
Ar"row*head`ed, a.

Defn: Shaped like the head of an arow; cuneiform. Arrowheaded
characters, characters the elements of which consist of strokes
resembling arrowheads, nailheads, or wedges; -- hence called also
nail-headed, wedge-formed, cuneiform, or cuneatic characters; the
oldest written characters used in the country about the Tigris and
Euphrates, and subsequently in Persia, and abounding among the ruins
of Persepolis, Nineveh, and Babylon. See Cuneiform.

ARROWROOT
Ar"row*root`, n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A west Indian plant of the genus Maranta, esp. M. arundinacea,
now cultivated in many hot countries. It said that the Indians used
the roots to neutralize the venom in wounds made by poisoned arrows.

2. A nutritive starch obtained from the rootstocks of Maranta
arundinacea, and used as food, esp. for children an invalids; also, a
similar starch obtained from other plants, as various species of
Maranta and Curcuma.

ARROWWOOD
Ar"row*wood`, n.

Defn: A shrub (Viburnum dentatum) growing in damp woods and thickets;
-- so called from the long, straight, slender shoots.

ARROWWORM
Ar"row*worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar transparent worm of the genus Sagitta, living at the
surface of the sea. See Sagitta.

ARROWY
Ar"row*y, a.

1. Consisting of arrows.
How quick they wheeled, and flying, behind them shot Sharp sleet of
arrowy showers. Milton.

2. Formed or moving like, or in any respect resembling, an arrow;
swift; darting; piercing. "His arrowy tongue." Cowper.
By the blue rushing of the arrowy Rhone. Byron.
With arrowy vitalities, vivacities, and ingenuities. Carlyle.

ARROYO
Ar*roy"o, n.; pl Arroyos. Etym: [Sp., fr. LL. arrogium; cf. Gr.

1. A water course; a rivulet.

2. The dry bed of a small stream. [Western U. S.]

ARSCHIN
Ar"schin, n.

Defn: See Arshine.

ARSE
Arse, n. Etym: [AS. ears; ærs; akin to OHG. ars. G. arsch, D. aars,
Sw. ars, Dan. arts, Gr.

Defn: The buttocks, or hind part of an animal; the posteriors; the
fundament; the bottom.

ARSENAL
Ar"se*nal, n. Etym: [Sp. & F. arsenal arsenal, dockyard, or It.
arzanale, arsenale (cf. It. & darsena dock); all fr. Ar. dar house of
industry or fabrication; dar house + art, industry.]

Defn: A public establishment for the storage, or for the manufacture
and storage, of arms and all military equipments, whether for land or
naval service.

ARSENATE
Ar"se*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of arsenic acid.

ARSENIATE
Ar*se"ni*ate, n.

Defn: See Arsenate. [R.]

ARSENIC
Ar"se*nic, n. Etym: [L. arsenicum, Gr. zernikh: cf. F. arsenic.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: One of the elements, a solid substance resembling a metal in
its physical properties, but in its chemical relations ranking with
the nonmetals. It is of a steel-gray color and brilliant luster,
though usually dull from tarnish. It is very brittle, and sublimes at
356º Fahrenheit. It is sometimes found native, but usually combined
with silver, cobalt, nickel, iron, antimony, or sulphur. Orpiment and
realgar are two of its sulphur compounds, the first of which is the
true arsenticum of the ancients. The element and its compounds are
active poisons. Specific gravity from 5.7 to 5.9. Atomic weight.
Symbol As.

2. (Com.)

Defn: Arsenious oxide or arsenious anhydride; -- called also
arsenious acid, white arsenic, and ratsbane.

ARSENIC
Ar*sen"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic; -- said of those
compounds of arsenic in which this element has its highest
equivalence; as, arsenic acid.

ARSENICAL
Ar*sen"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenical
vapor; arsenical wall papers. Arsenical silver, an ore of silver
containing arsenic.

ARSENICATE
Ar*sen"i*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arsenicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Arsenicating.]

Defn: To combine with arsenic; to treat or impregnate with arsenic.

ARSENICISM
Ar*sen"i*cism, n. (Med.)

Defn: A diseased condition produced by slow poisoning with arsenic.

ARSENIDE
Ar"sen*ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of arsenic with a metal, or positive element or
radical; -- formerly called arseniuret.

ARSENIFEROUS
Ar`sen*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Arsenic + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing or producing arsenic.

ARSENIOUS
Ar*se"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. arsénieux.]

1. Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, arsenic; as,
arsenious powder or glass.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic, when having an
equivalence next lower than the highest; as, arsenious acid.

ARSENITE
Ar"sen*ite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. arsénite.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt formed by the union of arsenious acid with a base.

ARSENIURET
Ar`se*ni"u*ret, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Arsenide.

ARSENIURETED
Ar`se*ni"u*ret`ed, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined with arsenic; -- said some elementary substances or
radicals; as, arseniureted hydrogen. [Also spelt arseniuretted.]

ARSENOPYRITE
Ar`sen*o*pyr"ite, n. Etym: [Arsenic + pyrite.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a tin-white color and metallic luster, containing
arsenic, sulphur, and iron; -- also called arsenical pyrites and
mispickel.

ARSESMART
Arse"smart, n.

Defn: Smartweed; water pepper. Dr. Prior.

ARSHINE
Ar"shine, n. Etym: [Russ. arshin, of Turkish-Tartar origin; Turk.
arshin, arshun, ell, yard.]

Defn: A Russian measure of length = 2 ft. 4.246 inches.

ARSINE
Ar"sine, n. Etym: [From Arsenic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of arsenic and hydrogen, AsH3, a colorless and
exceedingly poisonous gas, having and odor like garlic; arseniureted
hydrogen.

ARSIS
Ar"sis, n. Etym: [L. arsis, Gr. lifting of the hand in beating time,
and hence the unaccented part of the rhythm.]

1. (Pros.)
(a) That part of a foot where the ictus is put, or which is
distinguished from the rest (known as the thesis) of the foot by a
greater stress of voice. Hermann.
(b) That elevation of voice now called metrical accentuation, or the
rhythmic accent.

Note: It is uncertain whether the arsis originally consisted in a
higher musical tone, greater volume, or longer duration of sound, or
in all combined.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The elevation of the hand, or that part of the bar at which it
is raised, in beating time; the weak or unaccented part of the bar; -
- opposed to thesis. Moore.

ARSMETRIKE
Ars`met"rike, n. Etym: [An erroneous form of arithmetic, as if from
L. ars metrica the measuring art.]

Defn: Arithmetic. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARSON
Ar"son, n. Etym: [OF. arson, arsun, fr. L. ardere, arsum, to burn.]
(Law)

Defn: The malicious burning of a dwelling house or outhouse of
another man, which by the common law is felony; the malicious and
voluntary firing of a building or ship. Wharton.

Note: The definition of this crime is varied by statues in different
countries and states. The English law of arson has been considerably
modified in the United States; in some of the States it has been
materially enlarged, while in others, various degrees of arson have
been established, with corresponding punishment. Burrill.

ART
Art.

Defn: The second person singular, indicative mode, present tense, of
the substantive verb Be; but formed after the analogy of the plural
are, with the ending -t, as in thou shalt, wilt, orig. an ending of
the second person sing. pret. Cf. Be. Now used only in solemn or
poetical style.

ART
Art, n. Etym: [F. art, L. ars, artis, orig., skill in joining or
fitting; prob. akin to E. arm, aristocrat, article.]

1. The employment of means to accomplish some desired end; the
adaptation of things in the natural world to the uses of life; the
application of knowledge or power to practical purposes.
Blest with each grace of nature and of art. Pope.

2. A system of rules serving to facilitate the performance of certain
actions; a system of principles and rules for attaining a desired
end; method of doing well some special work; -- often
contradistinguished from science or speculative principles; as, the
art of building or engraving; the art of war; the art of navigation.
Science is systematized knowledge . . . Art is knowledge made
efficient by skill. J. F. Genung.

3. The systematic application of knowledge or skill in effecting a
desired result. Also, an occupation or business requiring such
knowledge or skill.
The fishermen can't employ their art with so much success in so
troubled a sea. Addison.

4. The application of skill to the production of the beautiful by
imitation or design, or an occupation in which skill is so employed,
as in painting and sculpture; one of the fine arts; as, he prefers
art to literature.

5. pl.

Defn: Those branches of learning which are taught in the academical
course of colleges; as, master of arts.
In fearless youth we tempt the heights of arts. Pope.
Four years spent in the arts (as they are called in colleges) is,
perhaps, laying too laborious a foundation. Goldsmith.

6. Learning; study; applied knowledge, science, or letters. [Archaic]
So vast is art, so narrow human wit. Pope.

7. Skill, dexterity, or the power of performing certain actions,
asquired by experience, study, or observation; knack; a, a man has
the art of managing his business to advantage.

8. Skillful plan; device.
They employed every art to soothe . . . the discontented warriors.
Macaulay.

9. Cunning; artifice; craft.
Madam, I swear I use no art at all. Shak.
Animals practice art when opposed to their superiors in strength.
Crabb.

10
10

Defn: To black art; magic. [Obs.] Shak. Art and part (Scots Law),
share or concern by aiding and abetting a criminal in the
perpetration of a crime, whether by advice or by assistance in the
execution; complicity.

Note: The arts are divided into various classes. The useful,
mechanical, or industrial arts are those in which the hands and body
are concerned than the mind; as in making clothes and utensils. These
are called trades. The fine arts are those which have primarily to do
with imagination taste, and are applied to the production of what is
beautiful. They include poetry, music, painting, engraving,
sculpture, and architecture; but the term is often confined to
painting, sculpture, and architecture. The liberal arts (artes
liberales, the higher arts, which, among the Romans, only freemen
were permitted to pursue) were, in the Middle Ages, these seven
branches of learning, -- grammar, logic, rhetoric, arithmetic,
geometry, music, and astronomy. In modern times the liberal arts
include the sciences, philosophy, history, etc., which compose the
course of academical or collegiate education. Hence, degrees in the
arts; master and bachelor of arts.
In America, literature and the elegant arts must grow up side by side
with the coarser plants of daily necessity. Irving.

Syn.
 -- Science; literature; aptitude; readiness; skill; dexterity;
adroitness; contrivance; profession; business; trade; calling;
cunning; artifice; duplicity. See Science.

ARTEMIA
Ar*te"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of phyllopod Crustacea found in salt lakes and brines;
the brine shrimp. See Brine shrimp.

ARTEMISIA
Ar`te*mi"si*a, n. Etym: [L. Artemisia, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants including the plants called mugwort,
southernwood, and wormwood. Of these A. absinthium, or common
wormwood, is well known, and A. tridentata is the sage brush of the
Rocky Mountain region.

ARTERIAC
Ar*te"ri*ac, a. Etym: [L. arteriacus, Gr. Artery.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the windpipe.

ARTERIAL
Ar*te"ri*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. artériel.]

1. Of or pertaining to an artery, or the arteries; as, arterial
action; the arterial system.

2. Of or pertaining to a main channel (resembling an artery), as a
river, canal, or railroad. Arterial blood, blood which has been
changed and vitalized (arterialized) during passage through the
lungs.

ARTERIALIZATION
Ar*te`ri*al*i*za"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The process of converting venous blood into arterial blood
during its passage through the lungs, oxygen being absorbed and
carbonic acid evolved; -- called also aëration and hematosis.

ARTERIALIZE
Ar*te"ri*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arterialized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Arterializing.]

Defn: To transform, as the venous blood, into arterial blood by
exposure to oxygen in the lungs; to make arterial.

ARTERIOGRAPHY
Ar*te`ri*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A systematic description of the arteries.

ARTERIOLE
Ar*te"ri*ole, n. Etym: [NL. arteriola, dim. of L. arteria: cf. F.
artériole.]

Defn: A small artery.

ARTERIOLOGY
Ar*te`ri*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of arteries.

ARTERIOSCLEROSIS
Ar*te`ri*o*scle*ro"sis (är*te`ri*o*skle*ro"sis), n. [Gr. 'arthri`a
artery + sclerosis.] (Med.)

Defn: Abnormal thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries,
esp. of the intima, occurring mostly in old age. --
Ar*te`ri*o*scle*rot"ic (#), a.

ARTERIOTOMY
Ar*te`ri*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [L. arteriotomia, Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: The opening of an artery, esp. for bloodletting.

2. That part of anatomy which treats of the dissection of the
arteries.

ARTERITIS
Ar`te*ri"tis, n. Etym: [Artery + -etis.]

Defn: Inflammation of an artery or arteries. Dunglison.

ARTERY
Ar"ter*y, n.; pl. Artplwies. Etym: [L. arteria windpipe, artery, Gr.

1. The trachea or windpipe. [Obs.] "Under the artery, or windpipe, is
the mouth of the stomach." Holland.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the vessels or tubes which carry either venous or
arterial blood from the heart. They have tricker and more muscular
walls than veins, and are connected with them by capillaries.

Note: In man and other mammals, the arteries which contain
arterialized blood receive it from the left ventricle of the heart
through the aorta. See Aorta. The pulmonary artery conveys the venous
blood from the right ventricle to the lungs, whence the arterialized
blood is returned through the pulmonary veins.

3. Hence: Any continuous or ramified channel of communication; as,
arteries of trade or commerce.

ARTESIAN
Ar*te"sian, a. Etym: [F. artésien, fr. Artois in France, where many
such wells have been made since the middle of the last century.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Artois (anciently called Artesium), in
France. Artesian wells, wells made by boring into the earth till the
instrument reaches water, which, from internal pressure, flows
spontaneously like a fountain. They are usually of small diameter and
often of great depth.

ARTFUL
Art"ful, a. Etym: [From Art.]

1. Performed with, or characterized by, art or skill. [Archaic]
"Artful strains." "Artful terms." Milton.

2. Artificial; imitative. Addison.

3. Using or exhibiting much art, skill, or contrivance; dexterous;
skillful.
He [was] too artful a writer to set down events in exact historical
order. Dryden.

4. Cunning; disposed to cunning indirectness of dealing; crafty; as,
an artful boy. [The usual sense.]
Artful in speech, in action, and in mind. Pope.
The artful revenge of various animals. Darwin.

Syn.
 -- Cunning; skillful; adroit; dexterous; crafty; tricky; deceitful;
designing. See Cunning.

ARTFULLY
Art"ful*ly, adv.

Defn: In an artful manner; with art or cunning; skillfully;
dexterously; craftily.

ARTFULNESS
Art"ful*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being artful; art; cunning; craft.

ARTHEN
Ar"then, a.

Defn: Same as Earthen. [Obs.] "An arthen pot." Holland.

ARTHRITIC; ARTHRITICAL
Ar*thrit"ic, Ar*thrit"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. arthriticus, Gr.
Arthritis.]

1. Pertaining to the joints. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

2. Of or pertaining to arthritis; gouty. Cowper.

ARTHRITIS
Ar*thri"tis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Any inflammation of the joints, particularly the gout.

ARTHROCHONDRITIS
Ar`thro*chon*dri"tis, n. [NL.] (Med.)

Defn: Chondritis of a joint.

ARTHRODERM
Ar"thro*derm, n. Etym: [Gr. 'derm.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The external covering of an Arthropod.

ARTHRODESIS
Ar*throd"e*sis, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  joint +  a binding together.]
(Surg.)

Defn: Surgical fixation of joints.

ARTHRODIA
Ar*thro"di*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A form of diarthrodial articulation in which the articular
surfaces are nearly flat, so that they form only an imperfect ball
and socket.

ARTHRODIAL; ARTHRODIC
Ar*thro"di*al, Ar*throd"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to arthrodia.

ARTHRODYNIA
Ar`thro*dyn"i*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: An affection characterized by pain in or about a joint, not
dependent upon structural disease.

ARTHRODYNIC
Ar`thro*dyn"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to arthrodynia, or pain in the joints; rheumatic.

ARTHROGASTRA
Ar`thro*gas"tra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Arachnida, having the abdomen annulated,
including the scorpions, harvestmen, etc.; pedipalpi.

ARTHROGRAPHY
Ar*throg"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The description of joints.

ARTHROLOGY
Ar*throl"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of joints.

ARTHROMERE
Ar"thro*mere, n. Etym: [Gr. -mere.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the body segments of Arthropods. See Arthrostraca.
Packard.

ARTHROPATHY
Ar*throp"a*thy, n. [Gr.  joint + , , to suffer.] (Med.)

Defn: Any disease of the joints.

ARTHROPLEURA
Ar`thro*pleu"ra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The side or limb-bearing portion of an arthromere.

ARTHROPOD
Ar"thro*pod, n (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Arthropoda.

ARTHROPODA
Ar*throp"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large division of Articulata, embracing all those that have
jointed legs. It includes Insects, Arachnida, Pychnogonida, and
Crustacea.
 -- Ar*throp"o*dal, a.

ARTHROPOMATA
Ar`thro*pom"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the orders of Branchiopoda. See Branchiopoda.

ARTHROSIS
Ar*thro"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Articulation.

ARTHROSPORE
Ar"thro*spore, n. [Gr.  joint + E. spore.] (Bacteriol.)

Defn: A bacterial resting cell, -- formerly considered a spore, but
now known to occur even in endosporous bacteria. -- Ar`thro*spor"ic
(#), Ar*thros"po*rous (#), a.

ARTHROSTRACA
Ar*thros"tra*ca, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the larger divisions of Crustacea, so called because the
thorax and abdomen are both segmented; Tetradecapoda. It includes the
Amphipoda and Isopoda.

ARTHROTOME
Ar"thro*tome, n. [Gr.  joint +  to cut.] (Surg.)

Defn: A strong scalpel used in the dissection of joints.

ARTHROZOIC
Ar`thro*zo"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Articulata; articulate.

ARTHURIAN
Ar*thu"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to King Arthur or his knights.  J. R. Symonds.

In magnitude, in interest, and as a literary origin, the Arthurian
invention dwarfs all other things in the book.
Saintsbury.

ARTIAD
Ar"ti*ad, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Even; not odd; -- said of elementary substances and of radicals
the valence of which is divisible by two without a remainder.

ARTICHOKE
Ar"ti*choke, n. Etym: [It. articioc, perh. corrupted fr. the same
word as carciofo; cf. older spellings archiciocco, archicioffo,
carciocco, and Sp. alcachofa, Pg. alcachofra; prob. fr. Ar. al-
harshaf, al-kharsh.] (Bot.)

1. The Cynara scolymus, a plant somewhat resembling a thistle, with a
dilated, imbricated, and prickly involucre. The head (to which the
name is also applied) is composed of numerous oval scales, inclosing
the florets, sitting on a broad receptacle, which, with the fleshy
base of the scales, is much esteemed as an article of food.

2. See Jerusalem artichoke.

ARTICLE
Ar"ti*cle, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. articulus, dim. of artus joint, akin
to Gr. ar to join, fit. See Art, n.]

1. A distinct portion of an instrument, discourse, literary work, or
any other writing, consisting of two or more particulars, or treating
of various topics; as, an article in the Constitution. Hence: A
clause in a contract, system of regulations, treaty, or the like; a
term, condition, or stipulation in a contract; a concise statement;
as, articles of agreement.

2. A literary composition, forming an independent portion of a
magazine, newspaper, or cyclopedia.

3. Subject; matter; concern; distinct. [Obs.]
A very great revolution that happened in this article of good
breeding. Addison.
This last article will hardly be believed. De Foe.

4. A distinct part. "Upon each article of human duty." Paley. "Each
article of time." Habington.
The articles which compose the blood. E. Darwin.

5. A particular one of various things; as, an article of merchandise;
salt is a necessary article.
They would fight not for articles of faith, but for articles of food.
Landor.

6. Precise point of time; moment. [Obs. or Archaic]
This fatal news coming to Hick's Hall upon the article of my Lord
Russell's trial, was said to have had no little influence on the jury
and all the bench to his prejudice. Evelyn.

7. (Gram.)

Defn: One of the three words, a, an, the, used before nouns to limit
or define their application. A (or an) is called the indefinite
article, the the definite article.

8. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the segments of an articulated appendage. Articles of
Confederation, the compact which was first made by the original
thirteen States of the United States. They were adopted March 1,
1781, and remained the supreme law until March, 1789.
 -- Articles of impeachment, an instrument which, in cases of
impeachment, performs the same office which an indictment does in a
common criminal case.
 -- Articles of war, rules and regulations, fixed by law, for the
better government of the army.
 -- In the article of death Etym: [L. in articulo mortis], at the
moment of death; in the dying struggle.
 -- Lords of the articles (Scot. Hist.), a standing committee of the
Scottish Parliament to whom was intrusted the drafting and
preparation of the acts, or bills for laws.
 -- The Thirty-nine Articles, statements (thirty-nine in number) of
the tenets held by the Church of England.

ARTICLE
Ar"ti*cle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Articled; p. pr. & vb. n. Articling.]
Etym: [Cf. F. articuler, fr. L. articulare. See Article, n.,
Articulate.]

1. To formulate in articles; to set forth in distinct particulars.
If all his errors and follies were articled against him, the man
would seem vicious and miserable. Jer. Taylor.

2. To accuse or charge by an exhibition of articles.
He shall be articled against in the high court of admiralty. Stat. 33
Geo. III.

3. To bind by articles of covenant or stipulation; as, to article an
apprentice to a mechanic.

ARTICLE
Ar"ti*cle, v. i.

Defn: To agree by articles; to stipulate; to bargain; to covenant.
[R.]
Then he articled with her that he should go away when he pleased.
Selden.

ARTICLED
Ar"ti*cled, a.

Defn: Bound by articles; apprenticed; as, an articled clerk.

ARTICULAR
Ar*tic"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. articularis: cf. F. articulaire. See
Article, n.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the joints; as, an articular disease; an
articular process.

ARTICULAR; ARTICULARY
Ar*tic"u*lar, Ar*tic"u*la*ry, n. (Anat.)

Defn: A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles,
amphibians, and fishes.

ARTICULARLY
Ar*tic"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In an articular or an articulate manner.

ARTICULATA
Ar*tic`u*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [Neut. pl. from L. articulatus furnished
with joints, distinct, p. p. of articulare. See Article, v.] (Zoöl.)

1. One of the four subkingdoms in the classification of Cuvier. It
has been much modified by later writers.

Note: It includes those Invertebrata having the body composed of
ringlike segments (arthromeres). By some writers, the unsegmented
worms (helminths) have also been included; by others it is restricted
to the Arthropoda. It corresponds nearly with the Annulosa of some
authors. The chief subdivisions are Arthropoda (Insects, Myriapoda,
Arachnida, Pycnogonida, Crustacea); and Anarthropoda, including the
Annelida and allied forms.

2. One of the subdivisions of the Brachiopoda, including those that
have the shells united by a hinge.

3. A subdivision of the Crinoidea.

ARTICULATE
Ar*tic"u*late, a. Etym: [L. articulatus. See Articulata.]

1. Expressed in articles or in separate items or particulars.
[Archaic] Bacon.

2. Jointed; formed with joints; consisting of segments united by
joints; as, articulate animals or plants.

3. Distinctly uttered; spoken so as to be intelligible; characterized
by division into words and syllables; as, articulate speech, sounds,
words.
Total changes of party and articulate opinion. Carlyle.

ARTICULATE
Ar*tic"u*late, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal of the subkingdom Articulata.

ARTICULATE
Ar*tic"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Articulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Articulating].

1. To utter articulate sounds; to utter the elementary sounds of a
language; to enunciate; to speak distinctly.

2. To treat or make terms. [Obs.] Shak.

3. To join or be connected by articulation.

ARTICULATE
Ar*tic"u*late, v. t.

1. To joint; to unite by means of a joint; to put together with
joints or at the joints.

2. To draw up or write in separate articles; to particularize; to
specify. [Obs.]

3. To form, as the elementary sounds; to utter in distinct syllables
or words; to enunciate; as, to articulate letters or language. "To
articulate a word." Ray.

4. To express distinctly; to give utterance to.
Luther articulated himself upon a process that hand already begun in
the Christian church. Bibliotheca Sacra.
To . . . articulate the dumb, deep want of the people. Carlyle.

ARTICULATED
Ar*tic"u*la`ted, a.

1. United by, or provided with, articulations; jointed; as, an
articulated skeleton.

2. Produced, as a letter, syllable, or word, by the organs of speech;
pronounced.

ARTICULATELY
Ar*tic"u*late*ly, adv.

1. After the manner, or in the form, of a joint.

2. Article by article; in distinct particulars; in detail;
definitely. Paley.
I had articulately set down in writing our points. Fuller.

3. With distinct utterance of the separate sounds.

ARTICULATENESS
Ar*tic"u*late*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being articulate.

ARTICULATION
Ar*tic`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. articulation, fr. L. articulatio.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A joint or juncture between bones in the skeleton.

Note: Articulations may be immovable, when the bones are directly
united (synarthrosis), or slightly movable, when they are united
intervening substance (amphiarthrosis), or they may be more or less
freely movable, when the articular surfaces are covered with synovial
membranes, as in complete joints (diarthrosis). The last
(diarthrosis) includes hinge joints, admitting motion in one plane
only (ginglymus), ball and socket joints (enarthrosis), pivot and
rotation joints, etc.

2. (Bot.)
(a) The connection of the parts of a plant by joints, as in pods.
(b) One of the nodes or joints, as in cane and maize.
(c) One of the parts intercepted between the joints; also, a
subdivision into parts at regular or irregular intervals as a result
of serial intermission in growth, as in the cane, grasses, etc.
Lindley.

3. The act of putting together with a joint or joints; any meeting of
parts in a joint.

4. The state of being jointed; connection of parts. [R.]
That definiteness and articulation of imagery. Coleridge.

5. The utterance of the elementary sounds of a language by the
appropriate movements of the organs, as in pronunciation; as, a
distinct articulation.

6. A sound made by the vocal organs; an articulate utterance or an
elementary sound, esp. a consonant.

ARTICULATIVE
Ar*tic"u*la*tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to articulation. Bush.

ARTICULATOR
Ar*tic"u*la`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, articulates; as: (a) One who enunciates
distinctly. (b) One who prepares and mounts skeletons. (c) An
instrument to cure stammering.

ARTICULUS
Ar*tic"u*lus n.; pl. Articuli. Etym: [L. See Article.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A joint of the cirri of the Crinoidea; a joint or segment of an
arthropod appendage.

ARTIFACT
Ar"ti*fact, n. [L. ars, artis, art + facere, factum, to make.]

1. (Archæol.)

Defn: A product of human workmanship; -- applied esp. to the simpler
products of aboriginal art as distinguished from natural objects.

2.  (Biol.) A structure or appearance in protoplasm due to death or
the  use of reagents and not present during life.

ARTIFICE
Ar"ti*fice, n. Etym: [L. artificium, fr. artifex artificer; ars,
artis, art + facere to make: cf. F. artifice.]

1. A handicraft; a trade; art of making. [Obs.]

2. Workmanship; a skillfully contrived work.
The material universe.. in the artifice of God, the artifice of the
best Mechanist. Cudworth.

3. Artful or skillful contrivance.
His [Congreve's] plots were constructed without much artifice. Craik.

4. Crafty device; an artful, ingenious, or elaborate trick.

Note: [Now the usual meaning.]
Those who were conscious of guilt employed numerous artifices for the
purpose of averting inquiry. Macaulay.

ARTIFICER
Ar*tif"i*cer, n. Etym: [Cf. F. artificier, fr. LL. artificiarius.]

1. An artistic worker; a mechanic or manufacturer; one whose
occupation requires skill or knowledge of a particular kind, as a
silversmith.

2. One who makes or contrives; a deviser, inventor, or framer.
"Artificer of fraud." Milton.
The great Artificer of all that moves. Cowper.

3. A cunning or artful fellow. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: A military mechanic, as a blacksmith, carpenter, etc.; also,
one who prepares the shells, fuses, grenades, etc., in a military
laboratory.

Syn.
 -- Artisan; artist. See Artisan.

ARTIFICIAL
Ar`ti*fi"cial, a. Etym: [L. artificialis, fr. artificium: cf. F.
artificiel. See Artifice.]

1. Made or contrived by art; produced or modified by human skill and
labor, in opposition to natural; as, artificial heat or light, gems,
salts, minerals, fountains, flowers.
Artificial strife Lives in these touches, livelier than life. Shak.

2. Feigned; fictitious; assumed; affected; not genuine. "Artificial
tears." Shak.

3. Artful; cunning; crafty. [Obs.] Shak.

4. Cultivated; not indigenous; not of spontaneous growth; as,
artificial grasses. Gibbon. Artificial arguments (Rhet.), arguments
invented by the speaker, in distinction from laws, authorities, and
the like, which are called inartificial arguments or proofs. Johnson.
 -- Artificial classification (Science), an arrangement based on
superficial characters, and not expressing the true natural relations
species; as, "the artificial system" in botany, which is the same as
the Linnæan system.
 -- Artificial horizon. See under Horizon. Artificial light, any
light other than that which proceeds from the heavenly bodies.
 -- Artificial lines, lines on a sector or scale, so contrived as to
represent the logarithmic sines and tangents, which, by the help of
the line of numbers, solve, with tolerable exactness, questions in
trigonometry, navigation, etc.
 -- Artificial numbers, logarithms.
 -- Artificial person (Law). See under Person.
 -- Artificial sines, tangents, etc., the same as logarithms of the
natural, tangents, etc. Hutton.

ARTIFICIALITY
Ar`ti*fi`ci*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or appearance of being artificial; that which is
artificial.

ARTIFICIALIZE
Ar`ti*fi"cial*ize, v. t.

Defn: To render artificial.

ARTIFICIALLY
Ar`ti*fi"cial*ly, adv.

1. In an artificial manner; by art, or skill and contrivance, not by
nature.

2. Ingeniously; skillfully. [Obs.]
The spider's web, finely and artificially wrought. Tillotson.

3. Craftily; artfully. [Obs.]
Sharp dissembled so artificially. Bp. Burnet.

ARTIFICIALNESS
Ar`ti*fi"cial*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being artificial.

ARTIFICIOUS
Ar`ti*fi"cious, a. Etym: [L. artificiosus.]

Defn: Artificial. [Obs.] Johnson.

ARTILIZE
Art"i*lize, v. t.

Defn: To make resemble. [Obs.]
If I was a philosopher, says Montaigne, I would naturalize art
instead of artilizing nature. Bolingbroke.

ARTILLERIST
Ar*til"ler*ist, n.

Defn: A person skilled in artillery or gunnery; a gunner; an
artilleryman.

ARTILLERY
Ar*til"ler*y, n. Etym: [OE. artilrie, OF. artillerie, arteillerie,
fr. LL. artillaria, artilleria, machines and apparatus of all kinds
used in war, vans laden with arms of any kind which follow camps; F.
artillerie great guns, ordnance; OF. artillier to work artifice, to
fortify, to arm, prob. from L. ars, artis, skill in joining
something, art. See Art.]

1. Munitions of war; implements for warfare, as slings, bows, and
arrows. [Obs.]
And Jonathan gave his artillery unto his lad. 1 Sam. xx. 40.

2. Cannon; great guns; ordnance, including guns, mortars, howitzers,
etc., with their equipment of carriages, balls, bombs, and shot of
all kinds.

Note: The word is sometimes used in a more extended sense, including
the powder, cartridges, matches, utensils, machines of all kinds, and
horses, that belong to a train of artillery.

3. The men and officers of that branch of the army to which the care
and management of artillery are confided.

4. The science of artillery or gunnery. Campbell. Artillery park, or
Park of artillery. (a) A collective body of siege or field artillery,
including the guns, and the carriages, ammunition, appurtenances,
equipments, and persons necessary for working them. (b) The place
where the artillery is encamped or collected.
 -- Artillery train, or Train of artillery, a number of pieces of
ordnance mounted on carriages, with all their furniture, ready for
marching.

ARTILLERYMAN
Ar*til"ler*y*man, n.

Defn: A man who manages, or assists in managing, a large gun in
firing.

ARTILLERY WHEEL
Ar*til"ler*y wheel.

Defn: A kind of heavily built dished wheel with a long axle box, used
on gun carriages, usually having 14 spokes and 7 felloes; hence, a
wheel of similar construction for use on automobiles, etc.

ARTIODACTYLA
Ar`ti*o*dac"ty*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the divisions of the ungulate animals. The functional
toes of the hind foot are even in number, and the third digit of each
foot (corresponding to the middle finger in man) is asymmetrical and
paired with the fourth digit, as in the hog, the sheep, and the ox; -
- opposed to Perissodactyla.

ARTIODACTYLE
Ar`ti*o*dac"tyle, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Artiodactyla.

ARTIODACTYLOUS
Ar`ti*o*dac"ty*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Even-toed.

ARTISAN
Ar"ti*san, n. Etym: [F. artisan, fr. L. artitus skilled in arts, fr.
ars, artis, art: cf. It. artigiano. See Art, n.]

1. One who professes and practices some liberal art; an artist.
[Obs.]

2. One trained to manual dexterity in some mechanic art or trade; and
handicraftsman; a mechanic.
This is willingly submitted to by the artisan, who can . . .
compensate his additional toil and fatigue. Hume.

Syn.
 -- Artificer; artist.
 -- Artisan, Artist, Artificer. An artist is one who is skilled in
some one of the fine arts; an artisan is one who exercises any
mechanical employment. A portrait painter is an artist; a sign
painter is an artisan, although he may have the taste and skill of an
artist. The occupation of the former requires a fine taste and
delicate manipulation; that of the latter demands only an ordinary
degree of contrivance and imitative power. An artificer is one who
requires power of contrivance and adaptation in the exercise of his
profession. The word suggest neither the idea of mechanical
conformity to rule which attaches to the term artisan, nor the ideas
of refinement and of peculiar skill which belong to the term artist.

ARTIST
Art"ist, n. Etym: [F. artiste, LL. artista, fr. L. ars. See Art, n.,
and cf. Artiste.]

1. One who practices some mechanic art or craft; an artisan. [Obs.]
How to build ships, and dreadful ordnance cast, Instruct the articles
and reward their. Waller.

2. One who professes and practices an art in which science and taste
preside over the manual execution.

Note: The term is particularly applied to painters, sculptors,
musicians, engravers, and architects. Elmes.

3. One who shows trained skill or rare taste in any manual art or
occupation. Pope.

4. An artful person; a schemer. [Obs.]

Syn.
 -- Artisan. See Artisan.

ARTISTE
Ar*tiste", n. Etym: [F. See Artist.]

Defn: One peculiarly dexterous and tasteful in almost any employment,
as an opera dancer, a hairdresser, a cook.

Note: This term should not be confounded with the English word
artist.

ARTISTIC; ARTISTICAL
Ar*tis"tic, Ar*tis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. artistique, fr. artiste.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to art or to artists; made in the manner of an
artist; conformable to art; characterized by art; showing taste or
skill.
 -- Ar*tis"tic*al*ly, adv.

ARTISTRY
Art"ist*ry, n.

1. Works of art collectively.

2. Artistic effect or quality. Southey.

3. Artistic pursuits; artistic ability. The Academy.

ARTLESS
Art"less, a.

1. Wanting art, knowledge, or skill; ignorant; unskillful.
Artless of stars and of the moving sand. Dryden.

2. Contrived without skill or art; inartistic. [R.]
Artless and massy pillars. T. Warton.

3. Free from guile, art, craft, or stratagem; characterized by
simplicity and sincerity; sincere; guileless; ingenuous; honest; as,
an artless mind; an artless tale.
They were plain, artless men, without the least appearance of
enthusiasm or credulity about them. Porteus.
O, how unlike the complex works of man, Heaven's easy, artless,
unencumbered plan! Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Simple; unaffected; sincere; undesigning; guileless;
unsophisticated; open; frank; candid.

ARTLESSLY
Art"less*ly, adv.

Defn: In an artless manner; without art, skill, or guile;
unaffectedly. Pope.

ARTLESSNESS
Art"less*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being artless, or void of art or guile;
simplicity; sincerity.

ARTLY
Art"ly, adv.

Defn: With art or skill. [Obs.]

ARTOCARPEOUS; ARTOCARPOUS
Ar`to*car"pe*ous, Ar`to*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the breadfruit, or to the genus Artocarpus.

ARTOTYPE
Ar"to*type, n. Etym: [Art + type.]

Defn: A kind of autotype.

ARTOTYRITE
Ar`to*ty"rite, n. Etym: [LL. Artotyritae, pl., fr. Gr. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect in the primitive church, who celebrated the
Lord's Supper with bread and cheese, alleging that the first
oblations of men not only of the fruit of the earth, but of their
flocks. [Gen. iv. 3, 4.]

ARTOW
Ar"tow.

Defn: A contraction of art thou. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARTSMAN
Arts"man, n.

Defn: A man skilled in an art or in arts. [Obs.] Bacon.

ART UNION
Art` un"ion.

Defn: An association for promoting art (esp. the arts of design), and
giving encouragement to artists.

ARUM
A"rum, n. Etym: [L. arum, aros, Gr.

Defn: A genus of plants found in central Europe and about the
Mediterranean, having flowers on a spadix inclosed in a spathe. The
cuckoopint of the English is an example.
Our common arums the lords and ladies of village children. Lubbock.

Note: The American "Jack in the pulpit" is now separated from the
genus Arum.

ARUNDELIAN
Ar`un*del"ian, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an Earl of Arundel; as, Arundel or Arundelian
marbles, marbles from ancient Greece, bought by the Earl of Arundel
in 1624.

ARUNDIFEROUS
Ar`un*dif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. arundifer; arundo reed + ferre to
bear.]

Defn: Producing reeds or canes.

ARUNDINACEOUS
A*run`di*na"ceous, a. Etym: [L. arundinaceus, fr. arundo reed.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a reed; resembling the reed or cane.

ARUNDINEOUS
Ar`un*din"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. arundineus, fr. arundo reed.]

Defn: Abounding with reeds; reedy.

ARUSPEX
A*rus"pex, n.; pl. Aruspices. Etym: [L. aruspex or haruspex.]

Defn: One of the class of diviners among the Etruscans and Romans,
who foretold events by the inspection of the entrails of victims
offered on the altars of the gods.

ARUSPICE
A*rus"pice, n. Etym: [L. aruspex: cf. F. aruspice. Cf. Aruspex,
Haruspice.]

Defn: A soothsayer of ancient Rome. Same as Aruspex. [Written also
haruspice.]

ARUSPICY
A*rus"pi*cy, n. Etym: [L. aruspicium, haruspicium.]

Defn: Prognostication by inspection of the entrails of victims slain
sacrifice.

ARVAL
Ar"val, n. Etym: [W. arwyl funeral; ar over + wylo to weep, or cf.
arföl; Icel. arfr inheritance + Sw. öl ale. Cf. Bridal.]

Defn: A funeral feast. [North of Eng.] Grose.

ARVICOLE
Ar"vi*cole, n. Etym: [L. arvum field + colere to inhabit.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A mouse of the genus Arvicola; the meadow mouse. There are many
species.

ARYAN
Ar"yan, n. Etym: [Skr. arya excellent, honorable; akin to the name of
the country Iran, and perh. to Erin, Ireland, and the early name of
this people, at least in Asia.]

1. One of a primitive people supposed to have lived in prehistoric
times, in Central Asia, east of the Caspian Sea, and north of the
Hindoo

2. The language of the original Aryans. [Written also Arian.]

ARYAN
Ar"yan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the people called Aryans; Indo-European;
Indo-Germanic; as, the Aryan stock, the Aryan languages.

ARYANIZE
Ar"yan*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make Aryan (a language, or in language). K. Johnston.

ARYTENOID
A*ryt"e*noid, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Ladle-shaped; -- applied to two small cartilages of the larynx,
and also to the glands, muscles, etc., connected with them. The
cartilages are attached to the cricoid cartilage and connected with
the vocal cords.

AS
As, adv. & conj. Etym: [OE. as, als, alse, also, al swa, AS. eal swa,
lit. all so; hence, quite so, quite as: cf. G. als as, than, also so,
then. See Also.]

1. Denoting equality or likeness in kind, degree, or manner; like;
similar to; in the same manner with or in which; in accordance with;
in proportion to; to the extent or degree in which or to which;
equally; no less than; as, ye shall be as gods, knowing good and
evil; you will reap as you sow; do as you are bidden.
His spiritual attendants adjured him, as he loved his soul, to
emancipate his brethren. Macaulay.

Note: As is often preceded by one of the antecedent or correlative
words such, same, so, or as, in expressing an equality or comparison;
as, give us such things as you please, and so long as you please, or
as long as you please; he is not so brave as Cato; she is as amiable
as she is handsome; come as quickly as possible. "Bees appear
fortunately to prefer the same colors as we do." Lubbock. As, in a
preceding part of a sentence, has such or so to answer correlatively
to it; as with the people, so with the priest.

2. In the idea, character, or condition of, -- limiting the view to
certain attributes or relations; as, virtue considered as virtue;
this actor will appear as Hamlet.
The beggar is greater as a man, than is the man merely as a king.
Dewey.

3. While; during or at the same time that; when; as, he trembled as
he spoke.
As I return I will fetch off these justices. Shak.

4. Because; since; it being the case that.
As the population of Scotland had been generally trained to arms . .
. they were not indifferently prepared. Sir W. Scott.
[See Synonym under Because.]

5. Expressing concession. (Often approaching though in meaning).
We wish, however, to avail ourselves of the interest, transient as it
may be, which this work has excited. Macaulay.

6. That, introducing or expressing a result or consequence, after the
correlatives so and such. [Obs.]
I can place thee in such abject state, as help shall never find thee.
Rowe.
So as, so that. [Obs.]
The relations are so uncertain as they require a great deal of
examination. Bacon.

7. As if; as though. [Obs. or Poetic]
He lies, as he his bliss did know. Waller.

8. For instance; by way of example; thus; -- used to introduce
illustrative phrases, sentences, or citations.

9. Than. [Obs. & R.]
The king was not more forward to bestow favors on them as they free
to deal affronts to others their superiors. Fuller.

10. Expressing a wish. [Obs.] "As have," i. e., may he have. Chaucer.
As . . . as. See So . . . as, under So.
 -- As far as, to the extent or degree. "As far as can be
ascertained." Macaulay.
 -- As far forth as, as far as. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- As for, or As to, in regard to; with respect to.
 -- As good as, not less than; not falling short of.
 -- As good as one's word, faithful to a promise.
 -- As if, or As though, of the same kind, or in the same condition
or manner, that it would be if.
 -- As it were (as if it were), a qualifying phrase used to apologize
for or to relieve some expression which might be regarded as
inappropriate or incongruous; in a manner.
 -- As now, just now. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- As swythe, as quickly as possible. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- As well, also; too; besides. Addison.
 -- As well as, equally with, no less than. "I have understanding as
well as you." Job xii. 3.
 -- As yet, until now; up to or at the present time; still; now.

AS
As, n. Etym: [See Ace.]

Defn: An ace. [Obs.] Chaucer. Ambes-as, double aces.

AS
As, n.; pl. Asses. Etym: [L. as. See Ace.]

1. A Roman weight, answering to the libra or pound, equal to nearly
eleven ounces Troy weight. It was divided into twelve ounces.

2. A Roman copper coin, originally of a pound weight (12 oz.); but
reduced, after the first Punic war, to two ounces; in the second
Punic war, to one ounce; and afterwards to half an ounce.

ASA
As"a, n. Etym: [NL. asa, of oriental origin; cf. Per. aza mastic, Ar.
asa healing, isa remedy.]

Defn: An ancient name of a gum.

ASAFETIDA; ASAFOETIDA
As`a*fet"i*da, As`a*foet"i*da, n. Etym: [Asa + L. foetidus fetid.]

Defn: The fetid gum resin or inspissated juice of a large
umbelliferous plant (Ferula asafoetida) of Persia and the East India.
It is used in medicine as an antispasmodic. [Written also
assafoetida.]

ASAPHUS
As"a*phus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of trilobites found in the Lower Silurian formation.
See Illust. in Append.

ASARABACCA
As`a*ra*bac"ca, n. Etym: [L. asarum + bacca a berry. See Asarone.]
(Bot.)

Defn: An acrid herbaceous plant (Asarum Europæum), the leaves and
roots of which are emetic and cathartic. It is principally used in
cephalic snuffs.

ASARONE
As"a*rone, n. Etym: [L. asarum hazelwort, wild spikenard, Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A crystallized substance, resembling camphor, obtained from the
Asarum Europæum; -- called also camphor of asarum.

ASBESTIC
As*bes"tic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling asbestus; inconsumable;
asbestine.

ASBESTIFORM
As*bes"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. asbestus + -form.]

Defn: Having the form or structure of asbestus.

ASBESTINE
As*bes"tine, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to asbestus, or partaking of its nature;
incombustible; asbestic.

ASBESTOUS
As*bes"tous, a.

Defn: Asbestic.

ASBESTUS; ASBESTOS
As*bes"tus, As*bes"tos, n. Etym: [L. asbestos (NL. asbestus) a kind
of mineral unaffected by fire, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of amphibole or of pyroxene, occurring in long and
delicate fibers, or in fibrous masses or seams, usually of a white,
gray, or green-gray color. The name is also given to a similar
variety of serpentine.

Note: The finer varieties have been wrought into gloves and cloth
which are incombustible. The cloth was formerly used as a shroud for
dead bodies, and has been recommended for firemen's clothes. Asbestus
in also employed in the manufacture of iron safes, for fireproof
roofing, and for lampwicks. Some varieties are called amianthus.
Dana.

ASBOLIN
As"bo*lin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar acrid and bitter oil, obtained from wood soot.

ASCARIASIS
As`ca*ri"a*sis, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  an intestinal worm.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease, usually accompanied by colicky pains and diarrhea,
caused by the presence of ascarids in the gastrointestinal canal.

ASCARID
As"ca*rid, n.; pl. Ascarides or Ascarids. Etym: [NL. ascaris, fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A parasitic nematoid worm, espec. the roundworm, Ascaris
lumbricoides, often occurring in the human intestine and allied
species found in domestic animals; also commonly applied to the
pinworm (Oxyuris), often troublesome to children and aged persons.

ASCEND
As*cend", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ascended; p. pr. & vb. n. Ascending.]
Etym: [L. ascendere; ad + scandere to climb, mount. See Scan.]

1. To move upward; to mount; to go up; to rise; -- opposed to Ant:
descend.
Higher yet that star ascends. Bowring.
I ascend unto my father and your father. John xx. 17.

Note: Formerly used with up.
The smoke of it ascended up to heaven. Addison.

2. To rise, in a figurative sense; to proceed from an inferior to a
superior degree, from mean to noble objects, from particulars to
generals, from modern to ancient times, from one note to another more
acute, etc.; as, our inquiries ascend to the remotest antiquity; to
ascend to our first progenitor.

Syn.
 -- To rise; mount; climb; scale; soar; tower.

ASCEND
As*cend", v. t.

Defn: To go or move upward upon or along; to climb; to mount; to go
up the top of; as, to ascend a hill, a ladder, a tree, a river, a
throne.

ASCENDABLE
As*cend"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being ascended.

ASCENDANCY; ASCENDANCE
As*cend"an*cy, As*cend"ance, n.

Defn: Same as Ascendency.

ASCENDANT
As*cend"ant, n. Etym: [F. ascendant, L. ascendens; p. pr. of
ascendere.]

1. Ascent; height; elevation. [R.]
Sciences that were then in their highest ascendant. Temple.

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: The horoscope, or that degree of the ecliptic which rises above
the horizon at the moment of one's birth; supposed to have a
commanding influence on a person's life and fortune.

Note: Hence the phrases To be in the ascendant, to have commanding
power or influence, and Lord of the ascendant, one who has possession
of such power or influence; as, to rule, for a while, lord of the
ascendant. Burke.

3. Superiority, or commanding influence; ascendency; as, one man has
the ascendant over another.
Chievres had acquired over the mind of the young monarch the
ascendant not only of a tutor, but of a parent. Robertson.

4. An ancestor, or one who precedes in genealogy or degrees of
kindred; a relative in the ascending line; a progenitor; -- opposed
to descendant. Ayliffe.

ASCENDANT; ASCENDENT
As*cend"ant, As*cend"ent, a.

1. Rising toward the zenith; above the horizon.
The constellation . . . about that time ascendant. Browne.

2. Rising; ascending. Ruskin.

3. Superior; surpassing; ruling.
An ascendant spirit over him. South.
The ascendant community obtained a surplus of wealth. J. S. Mill.
Without some power of persuading or confuting, of defending himself
against accusations, . . . no man could possibly hold an ascendent
position. Grote.

ASCENDENCY
As*cend"en*cy, n.

Defn: Governing or controlling influence; domination; power.
An undisputed ascendency. Macaulay.
Custom has an ascendency over the understanding. Watts.

Syn.
 -- Control; authority; influence; sway; dominion; prevalence;
domination.

ASCENDIBLE
As*cend"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. ascendibilis.]

Defn: Capable of being ascended; climbable.

ASCENDING
As*cend"ing, a.

Defn: Rising; moving upward; as, an ascending kite.
 -- As*cend"ing*ly, adv. Ascending latitude (Astron.), the increasing
latitude of a planet. Ferguson.
 -- Ascending line (Geneol.), the line of relationship traced
backward or through one's ancestors. One's father and mother,
grandfather and grandmother, etc., are in the line direct ascending.
 -- Ascending node having, that node of the moon or a planet wherein
it passes the ecliptic to proceed northward. It is also called the
northern node. Herschel.
 -- Ascending series. (Math.) (a) A series arranged according to the
ascending powers of a quantity. (b) A series in which each term is
greater than the preceding.
 -- Ascending signs, signs east of the meridian.

ASCENSION
As*cen"sion, n. Etym: [F. ascension, L. ascensio, fr. ascendere. See
Ascend.]

1. The act of ascending; a rising; ascent.

2. Specifically: The visible ascent of our Savior on the fortieth day
after his resurrection. (Acts i. 9.) Also, Ascension Day.

3. An ascending or arising, as in distillation; also that which
arises, as from distillation.
Vaporous ascensions from the stomach. Sir T. Browne.
Ascension Day, the Thursday but one before Whitsuntide, the day on
which commemorated our Savior's ascension into heaven after his
resurrection; -- called also Holy Thursday.
 -- Right ascension (Astron.), that degree of the equinoctial,
counted from the beginning of Aries, which rises with a star, or
other celestial body, in a right sphere; or the arc of the equator
intercepted between the first point of Aries and that point of the
equator that comes to the meridian with the star; -- expressed either
in degrees or in time.
 -- Oblique ascension (Astron.), an arc of the equator, intercepted
between the first point of Aries and that point of the equator which
rises together with a star, in an oblique sphere; or the arc of the
equator intercepted between the first point of Aries and that point
of the equator that comes to the horizon with a star. It is little
used in modern astronomy.

ASCENSIONAL
As*cen"sion*al, a.

Defn: Relating to ascension; connected with ascent; ascensive;
tending upward; as, the ascensional power of a balloon. Ascensional
difference (Astron.), the difference between oblique and right
ascension; -- used chiefly as expressing the difference between the
time of the rising or setting of a body and six o'clock, or six hours
from its meridian passage.

ASCENSIVE
As*cen"sive, a. Etym: [See Ascend.]

1. Rising; tending to rise, or causing to rise. Owen.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Augmentative; intensive. Ellicott.

ASCENT
As*cent". Etym: [Formed like descent, as if from a F. ascente, fr. a
verb ascendre, fr. L. ascendere. See Ascend, Descent.]

1. The act of rising; motion upward; rise; a mounting upward; as, he
made a tedious ascent; the ascent of vapors from the earth.
To him with swift ascent he up returned. Milton.

2. The way or means by which one ascends.

3. An eminence, hill, or high place. Addison.

4. The degree of elevation of an object, or the angle it makes with a
horizontal line; inclination; rising grade; as, a road has an ascent
of five degrees.

ASCERTAIN
As`cer*tain", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ascertained; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ascertaining.] Etym: [OF. acertener; a (L. ad) + certain. See
Certain.]

1. To render (a person) certain; to cause to feel certain; to make
confident; to assure; to apprise. [Obs.]
When the blessed Virgin was so ascertained. Jer. Taylor.
Muncer assured them that the design was approved of by Heaven, and
that the Almighty had in a dream ascertained him of its effects.
Robertson.

2. To make (a thing) certain to the mind; to free from obscurity,
doubt, or change; to make sure of; to fix; to determine. [Archaic]
The divine law . . . ascertaineth the truth. Hooker.
The very deferring [of his execution] shall increase and ascertain
the condemnation. Jer. Taylor.
The ministry, in order to ascertain a majority . . . persuaded the
queen to create twelve new peers. Smollett.
The mildness and precision of their laws ascertained the rule and
measure of taxation. Gibbon.

3. To find out or learn for a certainty, by trial, examination, or
experiment; to get to know; as, to ascertain the weight of a
commodity, or the purity of a metal.
He was there only for the purpose of ascertaining whether a descent
on England was practicable. Macaulay.

ASCERTAINABLE
As`cer*tain"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be ascertained.
 -- As`cer*tain"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- As`cer*tain"a*bly, adv.

ASCERTAINER
As`cer*tain"er, n.

Defn: One who ascertains.

ASCERTAINMENT
As`cer*tain"ment, n.

Defn: The act of ascertaining; a reducing to certainty; a finding out
by investigation; discovery.
The positive ascertainment of its limits. Burke.

ASCESSANCY; ASCESSANT
As*ces"san*cy, n. As*ces"sant, a.

Defn: See Acescency, Acescent. [Obs.]

ASCETIC
As*cet"ic a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Extremely rigid in self-denial and devotions; austere; severe.
The stern ascetic rigor of the Temple discipline. Sir W. Scott.

ASCETIC
As*cet"ic, n.

Defn: In the early church, one who devoted himself to a solitary and
contemplative life, characterized by devotion, extreme self-denial,
and self-mortification; a hermit; a recluse; hence, one who practices
extreme rigor and self-denial in religious things.
I am far from commending those ascetics that take up their quarters
in deserts. Norris.
Ascetic theology, the science which treats of the practice of the
theological and moral virtues, and the counsels of perfection. Am.
Cyc.

ASCETICISM
As*cet"i*cism, n.

Defn: The condition, practice, or mode of life, of ascetics.

ASCHAM
As"cham, n. Etym: [From Roger Ascham, who was a great lover of
archery.]

Defn: A sort of cupboard, or case, to contain bows and other
implements of archery.

ASCI
As"ci, n. pl.

Defn: See Ascus.

ASCIAN
As"cian, n.

Defn: One of the Ascii.

ASCIDIAN
As*cid"i*an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Ascidioidea, or in a more general sense, one of the
Tunicata. Also as an adj.

ASCIDIARIUM
As*cid`i*a"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Ascidium.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The structure which unites together the ascidiozooids in a
compound ascidian.

ASCIDIFORM
As*cid"i*form, a. Etym: [Gr. -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Shaped like an ascidian.

ASCIDIOIDEA
As*cid`i*oid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. ascidium + -oid. See
Ascidium.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Tunicata, often shaped like a two-necked bottle. The
group includes, social, and compound species. The gill is a netlike
structure within the oral aperture. The integument is usually
leathery in texture. See Illustration in Appendix.

ASCIDIOZOOID
As*cid`i*o*zo"oid, n. Etym: [Ascidium + zooid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the individual members of a compound ascidian. See
Ascidioidea.

ASCIDIUM
As*cid"i*um, n.; pl. Ascidia. Etym: [NL., fr. ascus. See Ascus.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A pitcher-shaped, or flask-shaped, organ or appendage of a
plant, as the leaves of the pitcher plant, or the little bladderlike
traps of the bladderwort (Utricularia).

2. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of simple ascidians, which formerly included most of
the known species. It is sometimes used as a name for the
Ascidioidea, or for all the Tunicata.

ASCIGEROUS
As*cig"er*ous, a. Etym: [Ascus + -gerous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having asci. Loudon.

ASCII; ASCIANS
As"ci*i, As"cians, n. pl. Etym: [L. ascii, pl. of ascius, Gr.

Defn: Persons who, at certain times of the year, have no shadow at
noon; -- applied to the inhabitants of the torrid zone, who have,
twice a year, a vertical sun.

ASCITES
As*ci"tes, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A collection of serous fluid in the cavity of the abdomen;
dropsy of the peritoneum. Dunglison.

ASCITIC; ASCITICAL
As*cit"ic, As*cit"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or affected by, ascites; dropsical.

ASCITITIOUS
As`ci*ti"tious, a. Etym: [See Adscititious.]

Defn: Supplemental; not inherent or original; adscititious;
additional; assumed.
Homer has been reckoned an ascititious name. Pope.

ASCLEPIAD
As*cle"pi*ad, n. (Gr. & L. Pros.)

Defn: A choriambic verse, first used by the Greek poet Asclepias,
consisting of four feet, viz., a spondee, two choriambi, and an
iambus.

ASCLEPIADACEOUS
As*cle`pi*a*da"ceous, a. Etym: [See Asclepias.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the Milkweed
family.

ASCLEPIAS
As*cle"pi*as, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Asclepios or Aesculapius.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants including the milkweed, swallowwort, and some
other species having medicinal properties. Asclepias butterfly
(Zoöl.), a large, handsome, red and black butterfly (Danais
Archippus), found in both hemispheres. It feeds on plants of the
genus Asclepias.

ASCOCARP
As"co*carp, n. [Gr. 'asko`s a bladder + karpo`s fruit.] (Bot.)

Defn: In ascomycetous fungi, the spherical, discoid, or cup-shaped
body within which the asci are collected, and which constitutes the
mature fructification. The different forms are known in mycology
under distinct names. Called also spore fruit.

ASCOCOCCUS
As`co*coc"cus, n.; pl. Ascococci. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A form of micrococcus, found in putrid meat infusions,
occurring in peculiar masses, each of which is inclosed in a hyaline
capsule and contains a large number of spherical micrococci.

ASCOMYCETES
As`co*my*ce"tes, n. pl. [NL.; ascus + Gr. , , fungus.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large class of higher fungi distinguished by septate hyphæ,
and by having their spores formed in asci, or spore sacs. It
comprises many orders, among which are the yeasts, molds, mildews,
truffles, morels, etc. -- As`co*my*ce"tous (#), a.

ASCOSPORE
As"co*spore, n. Etym: [Ascus + spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the spores contained in the asci of lichens and fungi.
[See Illust. of Ascus.]

ASCRIBABLE
As*crib"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being ascribed; attributable.

ASCRIBE
As*cribe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ascribed; p. pr. & vb. n. Ascribing.]
Etym: [L. ascribere, adscribere, to ascribe; ad + scribere to write:
cf. OF. ascrire. See Scribe.]

1. To attribute, impute, or refer, as to a cause; as, his death was
ascribed to a poison; to ascribe an effect to the right cause; to
ascribe such a book to such an author.
The finest [speech] that is ascribed to Satan in the whole poem.
Addison.

2. To attribute, as a quality, or an appurtenance; to consider or
allege to belong.

Syn.
 -- To Ascribe, Attribute, Impute. Attribute denotes, 1. To refer
some quality or attribute to a being; as, to attribute power to God.
2. To refer something to its cause or source; as, to attribute a
backward spring to icebergs off the coast. Ascribe is used equally in
both these senses, but involves a different image. To impute usually
denotes to ascribe something doubtful or wrong, and hence, in general
literature, has commonly a bad sense; as, to impute unworthy motives.
The theological sense of impute is not here taken into view.
More than good-will to me attribute naught. Spenser.
Ascribes his gettings to his parts and merit. Pope.
And fairly quit him of the imputed blame. Spenser.

ASCRIPT
As"cript, a.

Defn: See Adscript. [Obs.]

ASCRIPTION
As*crip"tion, n. Etym: [L. ascriptio, fr. ascribere. See Ascribe.]

Defn: The act of ascribing, imputing, or affirming to belong; also,
that which is ascribed.

ASCRIPTITIOUS
As`crip*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. ascriptitius, fr. ascribere.]

1. Ascribed.

2. Added; additional. [Obs.]
An ascriptitious and supernumerary God. Farindon.

ASCUS
As"cus, n.; pl. Asci. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A small membranous bladder or tube in which are inclosed the
seedlike reproductive particles or sporules of lichens and certain
fungi.

A-SEA
A-sea, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + sea.]

Defn: On the sea; at sea; toward the sea.

ASEMIA
A*se"mi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  priv. +  sign.] (Med.)

Defn: Loss of power to express, or to understand, symbols or signs of
thought.

ASEPSIS
A*sep"sis, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  priv. + sepsis.]

Defn: State of being aseptic; the methods or processes of
asepticizing.

ASEPTIC
A*sep"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + septic.]

Defn: Not liable to putrefaction; nonputrescent.
 -- n.

Defn: An aseptic substance.

ASEXUAL
A*sex"u*al, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + sexual.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having no distinct; without sexual action; as, asexual
reproduction. See Fission and Gemmation.

ASEXUALIZATION
A*sex`u*al*i*za"tion, n. [Asexual + -ize + -ation.]

Defn: The act or process of sterilizing an animal or human being, as
by vasectomy.

ASEXUALLY
A*sex"u*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an asexual manner; without sexual agency.

ASH
Ash, n. Etym: [OE. asch, esh, AS. æsc; akin to OHG. asc, Sw. & Dan.
ask, Icel. askr, D. esch, G. esche.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees of the Olive family, having opposite pinnate
leaves, many of the species furnishing valuable timber, as the
European ash (Fraxinus excelsior) and the white ash (F. Americana).
Prickly ash (Zanthoxylum Americanum) and Poison ash (Rhus venenata)
are shrubs of different families, somewhat resembling the true ashes
in their foliage.
 -- Mountain ash. See Roman tree, and under Mountain.

2. The tough, elastic wood of the ash tree.

Note: Ash is used adjectively, or as the first part of a compound
term; as, ash bud, ash wood, ash tree, etc.

ASH
Ash, n.,

Defn: sing. of Ashes.

Note: Ash is rarely used in the singular except in connection with
chemical or geological products; as, soda ash, coal which yields a
red ash, etc., or as a qualifying or combining word; as, ash bin, ash
heap, ash hole, ash pan, ash pit, ash-grey, ash-colored, pearlash,
potash. Bone ash, burnt powered; bone earth.
 -- Volcanic ash. See under Ashes.

ASH
Ash, v. t.

Defn: To strew or sprinkle with ashes. Howell.

ASHAME
A*shame, v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + shame: cf. AS. ascamian to shame
(where a- is the same as Goth. us-, G. er-, and orig. meant out),
gescamian, gesceamian, to shame.]

Defn: To shame. [R.] Barrow.

ASHAMED
A*shamed", a. Etym: [Orig. a p. p. of ashame, v. t.]

Defn: Affected by shame; abashed or confused by guilt, or a
conviction or consciousness of some wrong action or impropriety. "I
am ashamed to beg." Wyclif.
All that forsake thee shall be ashamed. Jer. xvii. 13.
I began to be ashamed of sitting idle. Johnson.
Enough to make us ashamed of our species. Macaulay.
An ashamed person can hardly endure to meet the gaze of those
present. Darwin.

Note: Ashamed seldom precedes the noun or pronoun it qualifies. By a
Hebraism, it is sometimes used in the Bible to mean disappointed, or
defeated.

ASHAMEDLY
A*sham"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Bashfully. [R.]

ASHANTEE
Ash`an*tee", n.; pl. Ashantees.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Ashantee in Western Africa.

ASHANTEE
Ash`an*tee", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Ashantee.

ASH-COLORED
Ash"-col`ored, a.

Defn: Of the color of ashes; a whitish gray or brownish gray.

ASHEN
Ash"en, a. Etym: [See Ash, the tree.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ash tree. "Ashen poles." Dryden.

ASHEN
Ash"en, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, ashes; of a color between brown
and gray, or white and gray.
The ashen hue of age. Sir W. Scott.

ASHEN
Ash"en, n.,

Defn: obs. pl. for Ashes. Chaucer.

ASHERY
Ash"er*y, n.

1. A depository for ashes.

2. A place where potash is made.

ASHES
Ash"es, n. pl. Etym: [OE. asche, aske, AS. asce, æsce, axe; akin to
OHG. asca, G. asche, D. asch, Icel. & Sw. aska, Dan. aske, Goth.
azgo.]

1. The earthy or mineral particles of combustible substances
remaining after combustion, as of wood or coal.

2. Specifically: The remains of the human body when burnt, or when
"returned to dust" by natural decay.
Their martyred blood and ashes sow. Milton.
The coffins were broken open. The ashes were scattered to the winds.
Macaulay.

3. The color of ashes; deathlike paleness.
The lip of ashes, and the cheek of flame. Byron.
In dust and ashes, In sackcloth and ashes, with humble expression of
grief or repentance; -- from the method of mourning in Eastern lands.
 -- Volcanic ashes, or Volcanic ash, the loose, earthy matter, or
small fragments of stone or lava, ejected by volcanoes.

ASH-FIRE
Ash"-fire, n.

Defn: A low fire used in chemical operations.

ASH-FURNACE; ASH-OVEN
Ash"-fur`nace, Ash"-ov`en, n.

Defn: A furnace or oven for fritting materials for glass making.

ASHINE
A*shine", a.

Defn: Shining; radiant.

ASHLAR; ASHLER
Ash"lar, Ash"ler, n. Etym: [OE. ascheler, achiler, OF. aiseler, fr.
aiselle, dim. of ais plank, fr. L. axis, assis, plank, axle. See
Axle.]

1. (Masonry)
(a) Hewn or squared stone; also, masonry made of squared or hewn
stone.
Rough ashlar, a block of freestone as brought from the quarry. When
hammer-dressed it is known as common ashlar. Knight.

(b) In the United States especially, a thin facing of squared and
dressed stone upon a wall of rubble or brick. Knight.

ASHLARING; ASHLERING
Ash"lar*ing, Ash"ler*ing, n.

1. The act of bedding ashlar in mortar.

2. Ashlar when in thin slabs and made to serve merely as a case to
the body of the wall. Brande & C.

3. (Carp.)

Defn: The short upright pieces between the floor beams and rafters in
garrets. See Ashlar, 2.

ASHORE
A*shore", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + shore.]

Defn: On shore or on land; on the land adjacent to water; to the
shore; to the land; aground (when applied to a ship); -- sometimes
opposed to aboard or afloat.
Here shall I die ashore. Shak.
I must fetch his necessaries ashore. Shak.

ASHTORETH
Ash"to*reth, n.; pl. Ashtaroth.

Defn: The principal female divinity of the Phoenicians, as Baal was
the principal male divinity. W. Smith.

ASH WEDNESDAY
Ash` Wednes"day.

Defn: The first day of Lent; -- so called from a custom in the Roman
Catholic church of putting ashes, on that day, upon the foreheads of
penitents.

ASHWEED
Ash"weed`, n. (Bot.) Etym: [A corruption of ache-weed; F. ache. So
named from the likeness of its leaves to those of ache (celery).]

Defn: Goutweed.

ASHY
Ash"y, a.

1. Pertaining to, or composed of, ashes; filled, or strewed with,
ashes.

2. Ash-colored; whitish gray; deadly pale. Shak. Ashy pale, pale as
ashes. Shak.

ASIAN
A"sian, a. Etym: [L. Asianus, Gr. Asia.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Asia; Asiatic. "Asian princes." Jer.
Taylor.
 -- n.

Defn: An Asiatic.

ASIARCH
A"si*arch, n. Etym: [L. Asiarcha, Gr.

Defn: One of the chiefs or pontiffs of the Roman province of Asia,
who had the superintendence of the public games and religious rites.
Milner.

ASIATIC
A`si*at"ic, a. Etym: [L. Asiaticus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Asia or to its inhabitants.
 -- n.

Defn: A native, or one of the people, of Asia.

ASIATICISM
A`si*at"i*cism, n.

Defn: Something peculiar to Asia or the Asiatics.

ASIDE
A*side", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + side.]

1. On, or to, one side; out of a straight line, course, or direction;
at a little distance from the rest; out of the way; apart.
Thou shalt set aside that which is full. 2 Kings iv. 4.
But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king. Shak.
The flames were blown aside. Dryden.

2. Out of one's thoughts; off; away; as, to put aside gloomy
thoughts. "Lay aside every weight." Heb. xii. 1.

3. So as to be heard by others; privately.
Then lords and ladies spake aside. Sir W. Scott.
To set aside (Law), to annul or defeat the effect or operation of, by
a subsequent decision of the same or of a superior tribunal; to
declare of no authority; as, to set aside a verdict or a judgment.

ASIDE
A*side", n.

Defn: Something spoken aside; as, a remark made by a stageplayer
which the other players are not supposed to hear.

ASILUS
A*si"lus, n. Etym: [L., a gadfly.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of large and voracious two-winged flies, including the
bee killer and robber fly.

ASINEGO; ASSINEGO
As`i*ne"go, As`si*ne"go, n. Etym: [Sp. asnico, dim. of asno an ass.]

Defn: A stupid fellow. [Obs.] Shak.

ASININE
As"i*nine, a. Etym: [L. asininus, fr. asinus ass. See Ass.]

Defn: Of or belonging to, or having the qualities of, the ass, as
stupidity and obstinacy. "Asinine nature." B. Jonson. "Asinine
feast." Milton.

ASININITY
As`i*nin"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being asinine; stupidity combined with
obstinacy.

ASIPHONATE
A*si"phon*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Destitute of a siphon or breathing tube; -- said of many
bivalve shells.
 -- n.

Defn: An asiphonate mollusk.

ASIPHONEA; ASIPHONATA; ASIPHONIDA
As`i*pho"ne*a, A*si`pho*na"ta, As`i*phon"i*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr.
Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of bivalve mollusks destitute of siphons, as the
oyster; the asiphonate mollusks.

ASITIA
A*si"ti*a, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Want of appetite; loathing of food.

ASK
Ask, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Asked; p. pr. & vb. n. Asking.] Etym: [OE.
asken, ashen, axien, AS. ascian, acsian; akin to OS. escon, OHG.
eiscon, Sw. aska, Dan. æske, D. eischen, G. heischen, Lith. jëskóti,
OSlav. iskati to seek, Skr. ish to desire. *5.]

1. To request; to seek to obtain by words; to petition; to solicit; -
- often with of, in the sense of from, before the person addressed.
Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God. Judg. xviii. 5.
If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye
will, and it shall be done unto you. John xv. 7.

2. To require, demand, claim, or expect, whether by way of
remuneration or return, or as a matter of necessity; as, what price
do you ask
Ask me never so much dowry. Gen. xxxiv. 12.
To whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more. Luke
xii. 48.
An exigence of state asks a much longer time to conduct a design to
maturity. Addison.

3. To interrogate or inquire of or concerning; to put a question to
or about; to question.
He is of age; ask him: he shall speak for himself. John ix. 21.
He asked the way to Chester. Shak.

4. To invite; as, to ask one to an entertainment.

5. To publish in church for marriage; -- said of both the banns and
the persons. Fuller.

Syn.
 -- To beg; request; seek; petition; solicit; entreat; beseech;
implore; crave; require; demand; claim; exhibit; inquire;
interrogate. See Beg.

ASK
Ask, v. i.

1. To request or petition; -- usually folllowed by for; as, to ask
for bread.
Ask, and it shall be given you. Matt. vii. 7.

2. To make inquiry, or seek by request; -- sometimes followed by
after.
Wherefore . . . dost ask after my name Gen. xxxii. 29.

ASK
Ask, n. Etym: [See 2d Asker.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A water newt. [Scot. & North of Eng.]

ASKANCE; ASKANT
A*skance", A*skant", adv. Etym: [Cf. D. schuin, schuins, sideways,
schuiven to shove, schuinte slope. Cf. Asquint.]

Defn: Sideways; obliquely; with a side glance; with disdain, envy, or
suspicion.
They dart away; they wheel askance. Beattie.
My palfrey eyed them askance. Landor.
Both . . . were viewed askance by authority. Gladstone.

ASKANCE
A*skance", v. t.

Defn: To turn aside. [Poet.]
O, how are they wrapped in with infamies That from their own misdeeds
askance their eyes! Shak.

ASKER
Ask"er, n.

Defn: One who asks; a petitioner; an inquirer. Shak.

ASKER
Ask"er, n. Etym: [A corruption of AS. a lizard, newt.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An ask; a water newt. [Local Eng.]

ASKEW
A*skew", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + skew.]

Defn: Awry; askance; asquint; oblique or obliquely; -- sometimes
indicating scorn, or contempt, or entry. Spenser.

ASKING
Ask"ing, n.

1. The act of inquiring or requesting; a petition; solicitation.
Longfellow.

2. The publishing of banns.

ASLAKE
A*slake", v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. aslacian, slacian, to slacken. Cf.
Slake.]

Defn: To mitigate; to moderate; to appease; to abate; to diminish.
[Archaic] Chaucer.

ASLANT
A*slant", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + slant.]

Defn: Toward one side; in a slanting direction; obliquely.
[The shaft] drove through his neck aslant. Dryden.

ASLANT
A*slant", prep.

Defn: In a slanting direction over; athwart.
There is a willow grows aslant a brook. Shak.

ASLEEP
A*sleep", a. & adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + sleep.]

1. In a state of sleep; in sleep; dormant.
Fast asleep the giant lay supine. Dryden.
By whispering winds soon lulled asleep. Milton.

2. In the sleep of the grave; dead.
Concerning them which are asleep . . . sorrow not, even as others
which have no hope. 1 Thess. iv. 13.

3. Numbed, and, usually, tingling. Udall.
Leaning long upon any part maketh it numb, and, as we call it,
asleep. Bacon.

ASLOPE
A*slope", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + slope.]

Defn: Slopingly; aslant; declining from an upright direction;
sloping. "Set them not upright, but aslope." Bacon.

ASLUG
A*slug", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + slug to move slowly.]

Defn: Sluggishly. [Obs.] Fotherby.

ASMEAR
A*smear", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + smear.]

Defn: Smeared over. Dickens.

ASMONEAN
As`mo*ne"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the patriotic Jewish family to which the
Maccabees belonged; Maccabean; as, the Asmonean dynasty. [Written
also Asmonæan.]

ASMONEAN
As`mo*ne"an, n.

Defn: One of the Asmonean family. The Asmoneans were leaders and
rulers of the Jews from 168 to 35 b. c.

ASOAK
A*soak", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + soak.]

Defn: Soaking.

ASOMATOUS
A*so"ma*tous, a. Etym: [L. asomatus, Gr.

Defn: Without a material body; incorporeal. Todd.

ASONANT
As"o*nant, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + sonant.]

Defn: Not sounding or sounded. [R.] C. C. Felton.

ASP
Asp, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Aspen. "Trembling poplar or asp." Martyn.

ASP
Asp, n. Etym: [L. aspis, fr. Gr. aspe, F. aspic.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, hooded, poisonous serpent of Egypt and adjacent
countries, whose bite is often fatal. It is the Naja haje. The name
is also applied to other poisonous serpents, esp. to Vipera aspis of
southern Europe. See Haje.

ASPALATHUS
As*pal"a*thus, n. Etym: [L. aspalathus, Gr. (Bot.)
(a) A thorny shrub yielding a fragrant oil. Ecclus. xxiv. 15.
(b) A genus of plants of the natural order Leguminosæ. The species
are chiefly natives of the Cape of Good Hope.

ASPARAGINE
As*par"a*gine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. asparagine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, nitrogenous, crystallizable substance, C4H8N2O3+H2O,
found in many plants, and first obtained from asparagus. It is
believed to aid in the disposition of nitrogenous matter throughout
the plant; -- called also altheine.

ASPARAGINOUS
As`pa*rag"i*nous, a.

Defn: Pertaining or allied to, or resembling, asparagus; having
shoots which are eaten like asparagus; as, asparaginous vegetables.

ASPARAGUS
As*par"a*gus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. prong, sprout, Pers. asparag,
Lith. spurgas sprout, Skr. sphurj to swell. Perh. the Greek borrowed
from the Persian. Cf. Sparrowgrass.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of perennial plants belonging to the natural order
Liliaceæ, and having erect much branched stems, and very slender
branchlets which are sometimes mistaken for leaves. Asparagus
racemosus is a shrubby climbing plant with fragrant flowers.
Specifically: The Asparagus officinalis, a species cultivated in
gardens.

2. The young and tender shoots of A. officinalis, which form a
valuable and well-known article of food.

Note: This word was formerly pronounced sparrowgrass; but this
pronunciation is now confined exclusively to uneducated people.
Asparagus beetle (Zoöl.), a small beetle (Crioceris asparagi)
injurious to asparagus.

ASPARTIC
As*par"tic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived, asparagine; as, aspartic acid.

ASPECT
As"pect, n. Etym: [L. aspectus, fr. aspicere, aspectum, to look at;
ad + spicere, specere, to look, akin to E. spy.]

1. The act of looking; vision; gaze; glance. [R.] "The basilisk
killeth by aspect." Bacon.
His aspect was bent on the ground. Sir W. Scott.

2. Look, or particular appearance of the face; countenance; mien;
air. "Serious in aspect." Dryden.
[Craggs] with aspect open shall erect his head. Pope.

3. Appearance to the eye or the mind; look; view. "The aspect of
affairs." Macaulay.
The true aspect of a world lying in its rubbish. T. Burnet.

4. Position or situation with regard to seeing; that position which
enables one to look in a particular direction; position in relation
to the points of the compass; as, a house has a southern aspect, that
is, a position which faces the south.

5. Prospect; outlook. [Obs.]
This town affords a good aspect toward the hill from whence we
descended. Evelyn.

6. (Astrol.)

Defn: The situation of planets or stars with respect to one another,
or the angle formed by the rays of light proceeding from them and
meeting at the eye; the joint look of planets or stars upon each
other or upon the earth. Milton.

Note: The aspects which two planets can assume are five; sextile,

7. (Astrol.)

Defn: The influence of the stars for good or evil; as, an ill aspect.
Shak.
The astrologers call the evil influences of the stars evil aspects.
Bacon. Aspect of a plane (Geom.), the direction of the plane.

ASPECT
As*pect", v. t. Etym: [L. aspectare, v. intens. of aspicere. See
Aspect, n.]

Defn: To behold; to look at. [Obs.]

ASPECTABLE
As*pect"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. aspectabilis.]

Defn: Capable of being; visible. "The aspectable world." Ray.
"Aspectable stars." Mrs. Browning.

ASPECTANT
As*pect"ant, a. (Her.)

Defn: Facing each other.

ASPECTED
As*pect"ed, a.

Defn: Having an aspect. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ASPECTION
As*pec"tion, n. Etym: [L. aspectio, fr. aspicere to look at.]

Defn: The act of viewing; a look. [Obs.]

ASPECT RATIO
Aspect ratio. (Aëronautics)

Defn: The ratio of the long to the short side of an aëroplane,
aërocurve, or wing.

ASPEN; ASP
Asp"en, Asp, n. Etym: [AS. æsp, æps; akin to OHG. aspa, Icel. ösp,
Dan. æsp, Sw. asp, D. esp, G. espe, äspe, aspe; cf. Lettish apsa,
Lith. apuszis.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of several species of poplar bearing this name, especially
the Populus tremula, so called from the trembling of its leaves,
which move with the slightest impulse of the air.

ASPEN
Asp"en, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the aspen, or resembling it; made of aspen
wood.
Nor aspen leaves confess the gentlest breeze. Gay.

ASPER
As"per, a. Etym: [OE. aspre, OF. aspre, F. âpre, fr. L. asper rough.]

Defn: Rough; rugged; harsh; bitter; stern; fierce. [Archaic] "An
asper sound." Bacon.

ASPER
As"per, n. Etym: [L. spiritus asper rough breathing.] (Greek Gram.)

Defn: The rough breathing; a mark placed over an initial vowel sound
or over h before it; thus hws, pronounced h, hrj'twr, pronounced
hra\'b6t.

ASPER
As"per, n. Etym: [F. aspre or It. aspro, fr. MGr.

Defn: A Turkish money of account (formerly a coin), of little value;
the 120th part of a piaster.

ASPERATE
As"per*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Asperated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Asperating.] Etym: [L. asperatus, p. p. of asperare, fr. asper
rough.]

Defn: To make rough or uneven.
The asperated part of its surface. Boyle.

ASPERATION
As`per*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of asperating; a making or becoming rough. Bailey.

ASPERGES
As*per"ges, n. Etym: [L., Thou shalt sprinkle.] (R. C. Ch.)
(a) The service or ceremony of sprinkling with holy water.
(b) The brush or instrument used in sprinkling holy water; an
aspergill.

ASPERGILL; ASPERGILLUM
As"per*gill, As`per*gil"lum, n. Etym: [LL. aspergillum, fr. L.
aspergere. See Asperse, v. t.]

1. The brush used in the Roman Catholic church for sprinkling holy
water on the people. [Also written aspergillus.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Wateringpot shell.

ASPERGILLIFORM
As`per*gil"li*form, a. Etym: [Aspergillum + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling the aspergillum in form; as, an aspergilliform
stigma. Gray.

ASPERIFOLIATE; ASPERIFOLIOUS
As`per*i*fo"li*ate, As`per*i*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. asper rough +
folium leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having rough leaves.

Note: By some applied to the natural order now called Boraginaceæ or
borageworts.

ASPERITY
As*per"i*ty, n.; pl. Asperities. Etym: [L. asperitas, fr. asper
rough: cf. F. aspérité.]

1. Roughness of surface; unevenness; -- opposed to smoothness. "The
asperities of dry bodies." Boyle.

2. Roughness or harshness of sound; that quality which grates upon
the ear; raucity.

3. Roughness to the taste; sourness; tartness.

4. Moral roughness; roughness of manner; severity; crabbedness;
harshness; -- opposed to mildness. "Asperity of character." Landor.
It is no very cynical asperity not to confess obligations where no
benefit has been received. Johnson.

5. Sharpness; disagreeableness; difficulty.
The acclivities and asperities of duty. Barrow.

Syn.
 -- Acrimony; moroseness; crabbedness; harshness; sourness; tartness.
See Acrimony.

ASPERMATOUS
A*sper"ma*tous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Aspermous.

ASPERMOUS
A*sper"mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of seeds; aspermatous.

ASPERNE
A*sperne", v. t. Etym: [L. aspernari; a (ab) + spernari.]

Defn: To spurn; to despise. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

ASPEROUS
As"per*ous, a. Etym: [See Asper, a.]

Defn: Rough; uneven. Boyle.

ASPERSE
As*perse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aspersed; p. pr. & vb. n. Aspersing.]
Etym: [L. aspersus, p. p. of aspergere to scatter, sprinkle; ad +
spargere to strew. See Sparse.]

1. To sprinkle, as water or dust, upon anybody or anything, or to
besprinkle any one with a liquid or with dust. Heywood.

2. To bespatter with foul reports or false and injurious charges; to
tarnish in point of reputation or good name; to slander or
calumniate; as, to asperse a poet or his writings; to asperse a man's
character.
With blackest crimes aspersed. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- To slander; defame; detract from; calumniate; vilify.
 -- To Asperse, Defame, Slander, Calumniate. These words have in
common the idea of falsely assailing the character of another. To
asperse is figuratively to cast upon a character hitherto unsullied
the imputation of blemishes or faults which render it offensive or
loathsome. To defame is to detract from a man's honor and reputation
by charges calculated to load him with infamy. Slander
(etymologically the same as scandal) and calumniate, from the Latin,
have in common the sense of circulating reports to a man's injury
from unworthy or malicious motives. Men asperse their neighbors by
malignant insinuations; they defame by advancing charges to blacken
or sully their fair fame; they slander or calumniate by spreading
injurious reports which are false, or by magnifying slight faults
into serious errors or crimes.

ASPERSED
As*persed", a.

1. (Her.)

Defn: Having an indefinite number of small charges scattered or
strewed over the surface. Cussans.

2. Bespattered; slandered; calumniated. Motley.

ASPERSER
As*pers"er, n.

Defn: One who asperses; especially, one who vilifies another.

ASPERSION
As*per"sion, n. Etym: [L. aspersio, fr. aspergere: cf. F. aspersion.]

1. A sprinkling, as with water or dust, in a literal sense.
Behold an immersion, not and aspersion. Jer. Taylor.

2. The spreading of calumniations reports or charges which tarnish
reputation, like the bespattering of a body with foul water; calumny.
Every candid critic would be ashamed to cast wholesale aspersions on
the entire body of professional teachers. Grote.
Who would by base aspersions blot thy virtue. Dryden.

ASPERSIVE
As*pers"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to asperse; defamatory; slanderous.
 -- As*pers"ive*ly, adv.

ASPERSOIR
As`per`soir", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An aspergill.

ASPERSORIUM
As`per*so"ri*um, n.; pl. Aspplwsoria. Etym: [LL. See Asperse.]

1. The stoup, basin, or other vessel for holy water in Roman Catholic
churches.

2. A brush for sprinkling holy water; an aspergill.

ASPHALT; ASPHALTUM
As"phalt, As*phal"tum, n. Etym: [Gr. asphalte.]

1. Mineral pitch, Jews' pitch, or compact native bitumen. It is
brittle, of a black or brown color and high luster on a surface of
fracture; it melts and burns when heated, leaving no residue. It
occurs on the surface and shores of the Dead Sea, which is therefore
called Asphaltites, or the Asphaltic Lake. It is found also in many
parts of Asia, Europe, and America. See Bitumen.

2. A composition of bitumen, pitch, lime, and gravel, used for
forming pavements, and as a water-proof cement for bridges, roofs,
etc.; asphaltic cement. Artificial asphalt is prepared from coal tar,
lime, sand, etc. Asphalt stone, Asphalt rock, a limestone found
impregnated with asphalt.

ASPHALT
As"phalt, v. t.

Defn: To cover with asphalt; as, to asphalt a roof; asphalted
streets.

ASPHALTE
As`phalte", n. Etym: [F. See Asphalt.]

Defn: Asphaltic mastic or cement. See Asphalt, 2.

ASPHALTIC
As*phal"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, of the nature of, or containing, asphalt;
bituminous. "Asphaltic pool." "Asphaltic slime." Milton.

ASPHALTITE
As*phal"tite, a.

Defn: Asphaltic.

ASPHALTITE
As*phal"tite, a.

Defn: Asphaltic. Bryant.

ASPHALTUS
As*phal"tus, n.

Defn: See Asphalt.

ASPHODEL
As"pho*del, n. Etym: [L. asphodelus, Gr. Daffodil.] (Bot.)

Defn: A general name for a plant of the genus Asphodelus. The
asphodels are hardy perennial plants, several species of which are
cultivated for the beauty of their flowers.

Note: The name is also popularly given to species of other genera.
The asphodel of the early English and French poets was the daffodil.
The asphodel of the Greek poets is supposed to be the Narcissus
poeticus. Dr. Prior.
Pansies, and violets, and asphodel. Milton.

ASPHYCTIC
As*phyc"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to asphyxia.

ASPHYXIA; ASPHYXY
As*phyx"i*a, As*phyx"y, n. Etym: [NL. asphyxia, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Apparent death, or suspended animation; the condition which
results from interruption of respiration, as in suffocation or
drowning, or the inhalation of irrespirable gases.

ASPHYXIAL
As*phyx"i*al, a.

Defn: Of or relating to asphyxia; as, asphyxial phenomena.

ASPHYXIATE
As*phyx"i*ate, v. t.

Defn: To bring to a state of asphyxia; to suffocate.

Note: [Used commonly in the past pple.]

ASPHYXIATED; ASPHYXIED
As*phyx"i*a`ted, As*phyx"ied, p. p.

Defn: In a state of asphyxia; suffocated.

ASPHYXIATION
As*phyx`i*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of causing asphyxia; a state of asphyxia.

ASPIC
As"pic, n. Etym: [F. See Asp.]

1. The venomous asp. [Chiefly poetic] Shak. Tennyson.

2. A piece of ordnance carrying a 12 pound shot. [Obs.]

ASPIC
As"pic, n. Etym: [F., a corrupt. of spic (OF. espi, F. épi), L. spica
(spicum, spicus), ear, spike. See Spike.]

Defn: A European species of lavender (Lavandula spica), which
produces a volatile oil. See Spike.

ASPIC
As"pic, n. Etym: [F., prob. fr. aspic an asp.]

Defn: A savory meat jelly containing portions of fowl, game, fish,
hard boiled eggs, etc. Thackeray.

ASPIDOBRANCHIA
As`pi*do*bran"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Gastropoda, with limpetlike shells, including the
abalone shells and keyhole limpets.

ASPIRANT
As*pir"ant, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aspirant, p. pr. of aspirer. See
Aspire.]

Defn: Aspiring.

ASPIRANT
As*pir"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aspirant.]

Defn: One who aspires; one who eagerly seeks some high position or
object of attainment.
In consequence of the resignations . . . the way to greatness was
left clear to a new set of aspirants. Macaulay.

ASPIRATE
As"pi*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aspirated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aspirating.] Etym: [L. aspiratus, p. p. of aspirare to breathe toward
or upon, to add the breathing h; ad + spirare to breathe, blow. Cf.
Aspire.]

Defn: To pronounce with a breathing, an aspirate, or an h sound; as,
we aspirate the words horse and house; to aspirate a vowel or a
liquid consonant.

ASPIRATE
As"pi*rate, n.

1. A sound consisting of, or characterized by, a breath like the
sound of h; the breathing h or a character representing such a sound;
an aspirated sound.

2. A mark of aspiration used in Greek; the asper, or rough breathing.
Bentley.

3. An elementary sound produced by the breath alone; a surd, or
nonvocal consonant; as, f, th in thin, etc.

ASPIRATE; ASPIRATED
As"pi*rate, As"pi*ra"ted, a. Etym: [L. aspiratus, p. p.]

Defn: Pronounced with the h sound or with audible breath.
But yet they are not aspirate, i. e., with such an aspiration as h.
Holder.

ASPIRATION
As`pi*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. aspiratio, fr. aspirare: cf. F.
aspiration.]

1. The act of aspirating; the pronunciation of a letter with a full
or strong emission of breath; an aspirated sound.
If aspiration be defined to be an impetus of breathing. Wilkins.

2. The act of breathing; a breath; an inspiration.

3. The act of aspiring of a ardently desiring; strong wish; high
desire. "Aspirations after virtue." Johnson.
Vague aspiration after military renown. Prescott.

ASPIRATOR
As"pi*ra`tor, n.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: An apparatus for passing air or gases through or over certain
liquids or solids, or for exhausting a closed vessel, by means of
suction.

2. (Med.)

Defn: An instrument for the evacuation of the fluid contents of
tumors or collections of blood.

ASPIRATORY
As*pir"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to breathing; suited to the inhaling of air

ASPIRE
As*pire", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Aspired; p. pr. & vb. n. Aspiring.]
Etym: [F. aspirer, L. aspirare. See Aspirate, v. t.]

1. To desire with eagerness; to seek to attain something high or
great; to pant; to long; -- followed by to or after, and rarely by
at; as, to aspire to a crown; to aspire after immorality.
Aspiring to be gods, if angels fell; Aspiring to be angels, men
rebel. Pope.

2. To rise; to ascend; to tower; to soar.
My own breath still foments the fire, Which flames as high as fancy
can aspire. Waller.

ASPIRE
As*pire", v. t.

Defn: To aspire to; to long for; to try to reach; to mount to. [Obs.]
That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds. Shak.

ASPIRE
As*pire", n.

Defn: Aspiration. [Obs.] Chapman.

ASPIREMENT
As*pire"ment, n.

Defn: Aspiration. [Obs.]

ASPIRER
As*pir"er, n.

Defn: One who aspires.

ASPIRIN
As"pi*rin, n. (Pharm.)

Defn: A white crystalline compound of acetyl and salicylic acid used
as a drug for the salicylic acid liberated from it in the intestines.

ASPIRING
As*pir"ing, a.

Defn: That aspires; as, an Aspiring mind.
 -- As*pir"ing*ly, adv.
 -- As*pir"ing*ness, n.

ASPISH
Asp"ish, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, an asp.

ASPORTATION
As`por*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. asportatio, fr. asportare to carry away;
abs = ab + portare to bear, carry.] (Law)

Defn: The felonious removal of goods from the place where they were
deposited.

Note: It is adjudged to be larceny, though the goods are not carried
from the house or apartment. Blackstone.

ASPRAWL
A*sprawl", adv. & a.

Defn: Sprawling.

ASQUAT
A*squat", adv. & a.

Defn: Squatting.

ASQUINT
A*squint", adv. Etym: [Cf. Askant, Squint.]

Defn: With the eye directed to one side; not in the straight line of
vision; obliquely; awry, so as to see distortedly; as, to look
asquint.

ASS
Ass, n. Etym: [OE. asse, AS. assa; akin to Icel. asni, W. asen, asyn,
L. asinus, dim. aselus, Gr. esol, OHG. esil, G. esel, Goth. asilus,
Dan. æsel, Lith. asilas, Bohem. osel, Pol. osiel. The word is prob.
of Semitic origin; cf. Heb. ath she ass. Cf. Ease.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A quadruped of the genus Equus (E. asinus), smaller than the
horse, and having a peculiarly harsh bray and long ears. The tame or
domestic ass is patient, slow, and sure-footed, and has become the
type of obstinacy and stupidity. There are several species of wild
asses which are swift-footed.

2. A dull, heavy, stupid fellow; a dolt. Shak. Asses' Bridge. Etym:
[L. pons asinorum.] The fifth proposition of the first book of
Euclid, "The angles at the base of an isosceles triangle are equal to
one another." [Sportive] "A schoolboy, stammering out his Asses'
Bridge." F. Harrison.
 -- To make an ass of one's self, to do or say something very foolish
or absurd.

ASSAFOETIDA
As`sa*foet"i*da, n.

Defn: Same as Asafetida.

ASSAGAI; ASSEGAI
As"sa*gai, As"se*gai, n. Etym: [Pg. azagaia, Sp. azagaya, fr. a
Berber word. Cf. Lancegay.]

Defn: A spear used by tribes in South Africa as a missile and for
stabbing, a kind of light javelin.

ASSAI
As*sa"i. Etym: [It., fr. L. ad + satis enough. See Assets.] (Mus.)

Defn: A direction equivalent to very; as, adagio assai, very slow.

ASSAIL
As*sail", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assailed; p. pr. & vb. n. Assailing.]
Etym: [OE. assailen, asailen, OF. asaillir, assailler, F. assaillir;
(L. ad) + saillir to burst out, project, fr. L. salire to leap,
spring; cf. L. assilire to leap or spring upon. See Sally.]

1. To attack with violence, or in a vehement and hostile manner; to
assault; to molest; as, to assail a man with blows; to assail a city
with artillery.
No rude noise mine ears assailing. Cowper.
No storm can now assail The charm he wears within. Keble.

2. To encounter or meet purposely with the view of mastering, as an
obstacle, difficulty, or the like.
The thorny wilds the woodmen fierce assail. Pope.

3. To attack morally, or with a view to produce changes in the
feelings, character, conduct, existing usages, institutions; to
attack by words, hostile influence, etc.; as, to assail one with
appeals, arguments, abuse, ridicule, and the like.
The papal authority . . . assailed. Hallam.
They assailed him with keen invective; they assailed him with still
keener irony. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To attack; assault; invade; encounter; fall upon. See Attack.

ASSAILABLE
As*sail"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being assailed.

ASSAILANT
As*sail"ant, a. Etym: [F. assaillant, p. pr. of assaillir.]

Defn: Assailing; attacking. Milton.

ASSAILANT
As*sail"ant, n. Etym: [F. assaillant.]

Defn: One who, or that which, assails, attacks, or assaults; an
assailer.
An assailant of the church. Macaulay.

ASSAILER
As*sail"er, n.

Defn: One who assails.

ASSAILMENT
As*sail"ment, n.

Defn: The act or power of assailing; attack; assault. [R.]
His most frequent assailment was the headache. Johnson.

ASSAMAR
As"sa*mar, n. Etym: [L. assare to roast + amarus, bitter.] (Chem.)

Defn: The peculiar bitter substance, soft or liquid, and of a yellow
color, produced when meat, bread, gum, sugar, starch, and the like,
are roasted till they turn brown.

ASSAMESE
As`sam*ese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Assam, a province of British India, or to
its inhabitants.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Assam.

ASSAPAN; ASSAPANIC
As`sa*pan", As`sa*pan"ic, n. Etym: [Prob. Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American flying squirrel (Pteromys volucella).

ASSART
As*sart", n. Etym: [OF. essart the grubbing up of trees, fr. essarter
to grub up or clear ground of bushes, shrubs, trees, etc., fr. LL.
exartum, exartare, for exsaritare; L. ex + sarire, sarrire, saritum,
to hoe, weed.]

1. (Old Law)

Defn: The act or offense of grubbing up trees and bushes, and thus
destroying the tickets or coverts of a forest. Spelman. Cowell.

2. A piece of land cleared of trees and bushes, and fitted for
cultivation; a clearing. Ash. Assart land, forest land cleared of
woods and brush.

ASSART
As*sart", v. t.

Defn: To grub up, as trees; to commit an assart upon; as, to assart
land or trees. Ashmole.

ASSASSIN
As*sas"sin, n. Etym: [F. (cf. It. assassino), fr. Ar. one who has
drunk of the hashish. Under its influence the Assassins of the East,
followers of the Shaikh al-Jabal (Old Man of the Mountain), were said
to commit the murders required by their chief.]

Defn: One who kills, or attempts to kill, by surprise or secret
assault; one who treacherously murders any one unprepared for
defense.

ASSASSIN
As*sas"sin, v. t.

Defn: To assassinate. [Obs.] Stillingfleet.

ASSASSINATE
As*sas"sin*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assassinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Assassinating.] Etym: [LL. assassinatus, p. p. of assassinare.]

1. To kill by surprise or secret assault; to murder by treacherous
violence.
Help, neighbors, my house is broken open by force, and I am ravished,
and like to be assassinated. Dryden.

2. To assail with murderous intent; hence, by extended meaning, to
maltreat exceedingly. [Archaic]
Your rhymes assassinate our fame. Dryden.
Such usage as your honorable lords Afford me, assassinated and
betrayed. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To kill; murder; slay. See Kill.

ASSASSINATE
As*sas"sin*ate, n. Etym: [F. assassinat.]

1. An assassination, murder, or murderous assault. [Obs.]
If I had made an assassinate upon your father. B. Jonson.

2. An assassin. [Obs.] Dryden.

ASSASSINATION
As*sas`si*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act of assassinating; a killing by treacherous violence.

ASSASSINATOR
As*sas"si*na`tor, n.

Defn: An assassin.

ASSASSINOUS
As*sas"sin*ous, a.

Defn: Murderous. Milton.

ASSASTION
As*sas"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. assatio, fr. L. assare to roast.]

Defn: Roasting. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ASSAULT
As*sault", n. Etym: [OE. asaut, assaut, OF. assaut, asalt, F. assaut,
LL. assaltus; L. ad + saltus a leaping, a springing, salire to leap.
See Assail.]

1. A violent onset or attack with physical means, as blows, weapons,
etc.; an onslaught; the rush or charge of an attacking force; onset;
as, to make assault upon a man, a house, or a town.
The Spanish general prepared to renew the assault. Prescott.
Unshaken bears the assault Of their most dreaded foe, the strong
southwest. Wordsworth.

2. A violent onset or attack with moral weapons, as words, arguments,
appeals, and the like; as, to make an assault on the prerogatives of
a prince, or on the constitution of a government. Clarendon.

3. (Law)

Defn: An apparently violent attempt, or willful offer with force or
violence, to do hurt to another; an attempt or offer to beat another,
accompanied by a degree of violence, but without touching his person,
as by lifting the fist, or a cane, in a threatening manner, or by
striking at him, and missing him. If the blow aimed takes effect, it
is a battery. Blackstone. Wharton.
Practically, however, the word assault is used to include the
battery. Mozley & W.

Syn.
 -- Attack; invasion; incursion; descent; onset; onslaught; charge;
storm.

ASSAULT
As*sault", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assaulted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Assaulting.] Etym: [From Assault, n.: cf. OF. assaulter, LL.
assaltare.]

1. To make an assault upon, as by a sudden rush of armed men; to
attack with unlawful or insulting physical violence or menaces.
Insnared, assaulted, overcome, led bound. Milton.

2. To attack with moral means, or with a view of producing moral
effects; to attack by words, arguments, or unfriendly measures; to
assail; as, to assault a reputation or an administration.
Before the gates, the cries of babes newborn, . . . Assault his ears.
Dryden.

Note: In the latter sense, assail is more common.

Syn.
 -- To attack; assail; invade; encounter; storm; charge. See Attack.

ASSAULTABLE
As*sault"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being assaulted.

ASSAULTER
As*sault"er, n.

Defn: One who assaults, or violently attacks; an assailant. E. Hall.

ASSAY
As*say", n. Etym: [OF. asai, essai, trial, F. essa. See Essay, n.]

1. Trial; attempt; essay. [Obs.] Chaucer.
I am withal persuaded that it may prove much more easy in the assay
than it now seems at distance. Milton.

2. Examination and determination; test; as, an assay of bread or
wine. [Obs.]
This can not be, by no assay of reason. Shak.

3. Trial by danger or by affliction; adventure; risk; hardship; state
of being tried. [Obs.]
Through many hard assays which did betide. Spenser.

4. Tested purity or value. [Obs.]
With gold and pearl of rich assay. Spenser.

5. (Metallurgy)

Defn: The act or process of ascertaining the proportion of a
particular metal in an ore or alloy; especially, the determination of
the proportion of gold or silver in bullion or coin.

6. The alloy or metal to be assayed. Ure. Assay and essay are
radically the same word; but modern usage has appropriated assay
chiefly to experiments in metallurgy, and essay to intellectual and
bodily efforts. See Essay.]

Note: Assay is used adjectively or as the first part of a compound;
as, assay balance, assay furnace. Assay master, an officer who assays
or tests gold or silver coin or bullion.
 -- Assay ton, a weight of 29.1662/3 grams.

ASSAY
As*say", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Assaying.]
Etym: [OF. asaier, essaier, F. essayer, fr. essai. See Assay, n.,
Essay, v.]

1. To try; to attempt; to apply. [Obs. or Archaic]
To-night let us assay our plot. Shak.
Soft words to his fierce passion she assayed. Milton.

2. To affect. [Obs.]
When the heart is ill assayed. Spenser.

3. To try tasting, as food or drink. [Obs.]

4. To subject, as an ore, alloy, or other metallic compound, to
chemical or metallurgical examination, in order to determine the
amount of a particular metal contained in it, or to ascertain its
composition.

ASSAY
As*say", v. i.

Defn: To attempt, try, or endeavor. [Archaic. In this sense essay is
now commonly used.]
She thrice assayed to speak. Dryden.

ASSAYABLE
As*say"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be assayed.

ASSAYER
As*say"er, n.

Defn: One who assays. Specifically: One who examines metallic ores or
compounds, for the purpose of determining the amount of any
particular metal in the same, especially of gold or silver.

ASSAYING
As*say"ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of testing, esp. of analyzing or examining
metals and ores, to determine the proportion of pure metal.

ASSAY POUND
As"say pound.

Defn: A small standard weight used in assaying bullion, etc.,
sometimes equaling 0.5 gram, but varying with the assayer.

ASSAY TON
Assay ton.

Defn: A weight of 29.166 + grams used in assaying, for convenience.
Since it bears the same relation to the milligram that a ton of 2000
avoirdupois pounds does to the troy ounce, the weight in milligrams
of precious metal obtained from an assay ton of ore gives directly
the number of ounces to the ton.

ASSE
Asse, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small foxlike animal (Vulpes cama) of South Africa, valued
for its fur.

ASSECURATION
As`se*cu*ra"tion, n. Etym: [LL. assecuratio, fr. assecurare.]

Defn: Assurance; certainty. [Obs.]

ASSECURE
As`se*cure", v. t. Etym: [LL. assecurare.]

Defn: To make sure or safe; to assure. [Obs.] Hooker.

ASSECUTION
As`se*cu"tion, n. Etym: [F. assécution, fr. L. assequi to obtain; ad
+ sequi to follow.]

Defn: An obtaining or acquiring. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

ASSEGAI
As"se*gai, n.

Defn: Same as Assagai.

ASSEMBLAGE
As*sem"blage, n. Etym: [Cf. F. assemblage. See Assemble.]

1. The act of assembling, or the state o
In sweet assemblage every blooming grace. Fenton.

2. A collection of individuals, or of individuals, or of particular
things; as, a political assemblage; an assemblage of ideas.

Syn.
 -- Company; group; collection; concourse; gathering; meeting;
convention. Assemblage, Assembly. An assembly consists only of
persons; an assemblage may be composed of things as well as persons,
as, an assemblage of incoherent objects. Nor is every assemblage of
persons an assembly; since the latter term denotes a body who have
met, and are acting, in concert for some common end, such as to hear,
to deliberate, to unite in music, dancing, etc. An assemblage of
skaters on a lake, or of horse jockeys at a race course, is not an
assembly, but might be turned into one by collecting into a body with
a view to discuss and decide as to some object of common interest.

ASSEMBLANCE
As*sem"blance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. assemblance.]

1. Resemblance; likeness; appearance. [Obs.]
Care I for the . . . stature, bulk, and big assemblance of a man
Shak.

2. An assembling; assemblage. [Obs.]
To weete [know] the cause of their assemblance. Spenser.

ASSEMBLE
As*sem"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assembled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Assembling.] Etym: [F. assembler, fr. LL. assimulare to bring
together to collect; L. ad + simul together; akin to similis like,
Gr. same. Cf. Assimilate, Same.]

Defn: To collect into one place or body; to bring or call together;
to convene; to congregate.
Thither he assembled all his train. Milton.
All the men of Israel assembled themselves. 1 Kings viii. 2.

ASSEMBLE
As*sem"ble, v. i.

Defn: To meet or come together, as a number of individuals; to
convene; to congregate. Dryden.
The Parliament assembled in November. W. Massey.

ASSEMBLE
As*sem"ble, v. i.

Defn: To liken; to compare. [Obs.]
Bribes may be assembled to pitch. Latimer.

ASSEMBLER
As*sem"bler, n.

Defn: One who assembles a number of individuals; also, one of a
number assembled.

ASSEMBLY
As*sem"bly, n.; pl. Assemblies. Etym: [F. assemblée, fr. assembler.
See Assemble.]

1. A company of persons collected together in one place, and usually
for some common purpose, esp. for deliberation and legislation, for
worship, or for social entertainment.

2. A collection of inanimate objects. [Obs.] Howell.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: A beat of the drum or sound of the bugle as a signal to troops
to assemble.

Note: In some of the United States, the legislature, or the popular
branch of it, is called the Assembly, or the General Assembly. In the
Presbyterian Church, the General Assembly is the highest
ecclesiastical tribunal, composed of ministers and ruling elders
delegated from each presbytery; as, the General Assembly of the
Presbyterian Church in the United States, or of Scotland. Assembly
room, a room in which persons assemble, especially for dancing.
 -- Unlawful assembly (Law), a meeting of three or more persons on a
common plan, in such a way as to cause a reasonable apprehension that
they will disturb the peace tumultuously.
 -- Westminster Assembly, a convocation, consisting chiefly of
divines, which, by act of Parliament, assembled July 1, 1643, and
remained in session some years. It framed the "Confession of Faith,"
the "Larger Catechism," and the "Shorter Catechism," which are still
received as authority by Presbyterians, and are substantially
accepted by Congregationalists.

Syn.
 -- See Assemblage.

ASSEMBLYMAN
As*sem"bly*man, n.; pl. Assemblymen.

Defn: A member of an assembly, especially of the lower branch of a
state legislature.

ASSENT
As*sent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assented; p. pr. & vb. n. Assenting.]
Etym: [F. assentir, L. assentire, assentiri; ad + sentire to feel,
think. See Sense.]

Defn: To admit a thing as true; to express one's agreement,
acquiescence, concurrence, or concession.
Who informed the governor . . . And the Jews also assented, saying
that these things were so. Acts xxiv. 9.
The princess assented to all that was suggested. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To yield; agree; acquiesce; concede; concur.

ASSENT
As*sent", n. Etym: [OE. assent, fr. assentir. See Assent, v.]

Defn: The act of assenting; the act of the mind in admitting or
agreeing to anything; concurrence with approval; consent; agreement;
acquiescence.
Faith is the assent to any proposition, on the credit of the
proposer. Locke.
The assent, if not the approbation, of the prince. Prescott.
Too many people read this ribaldry with assent and admiration.
Macaulay.
Royal assent, in England, the assent of the sovereign to a bill which
has passed both houses of Parliament, after which it becomes law.

Syn.
 -- Concurrence; acquiescence; approval; accord.
 -- Assent, Consent. Assent is an act of the understanding, consent
of the will or feelings. We assent to the views of others when our
minds come to the same conclusion with theirs as to what is true,
right, or admissible. We consent when there is such a concurrence of
our will with their desires and wishes that we decide to comply with
their requests. The king of England gives his assent, not his
consent, to acts of Parliament, because, in theory at least, he is
not governed by personal feelings or choice, but by a deliberate,
judgment as to the common good. We also use assent in cases where a
proposal is made which involves but little interest or feeling. A
lady may assent to a gentleman's opening the window; but if he offers
himself in marriage, he must wait for her consent.

ASSENTATION
As`sen*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. assentatio. See Assent, v.]

Defn: Insincere, flattering, or obsequious assent; hypocritical or
pretended concurrence.
Abject flattery and indiscriminate assentation degrade as much as
indiscriminate contradiction and noisy debate disgust. Ld.
Chesterfield.

ASSENTATOR
As`sen*ta"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. assentari to assent constantly.]

Defn: An obsequious; a flatterer. [R.]

ASSENTATORY
As*sent"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Flattering; obsequious. [Obs.] -- As*sent"a*to*ri*ly, adv.
[Obs.]

ASSENTER
As*sent"er, n.

Defn: One who assents.

ASSENTIENT
As*sen"tient, a.

Defn: Assenting.

ASSENTING
As*sent"ing, a.

Defn: Giving or implying assent.
 -- As*sent"ing*ly, adv.

ASSENTIVE
As*sent"ive, a.

Defn: Giving assent; of the nature of assent; complying.
 -- As*sent"ive*ness, n.

ASSENTMENT
As*sent"ment, n.

Defn: Assent; agreement. [Obs.]

ASSERT
As*sert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Asserted; p. pr. & vb. n. Asserting.]
Etym: [L. assertus, p. p. of asserere to join or fasten to one's
self, claim, maintain; ad + serere to join or bind together. See
Series.]

1. To affirm; to declare with assurance, or plainly and strongly; to
state positively; to aver; to asseverate.
Nothing is more shameful . . . than to assert anything to be done
without a cause. Ray.

2. To maintain; to defend. [Obs. or Archaic]
That . . . I may assert Eternal Providence, And justify the ways of
God to men. Milton.
I will assert it from the scandal. Jer. Taylor.

3. To maintain or defend, as a cause or a claim, by words or
measures; to vindicate a claim or title to; as, to assert our rights
and liberties. To assert one's self, to claim or vindicate one's
rights or position; to demand recognition.

Syn.
 -- To affirm; aver; asseverate; maintain; protest; pronounce;
declare; vindicate.
 -- To Assert, Affirm, Maintain, Vindicate. To assert is to fasten to
one's self, and hence to claim. It is, therefore, adversative in its
nature. We assert our rights and privileges, or the cause of tree
institutions, as against opposition or denial. To affirm is to
declare as true. We assert boldly; we affirm positively. To maintain
is to uphold, and insist upon with earnestness, whatever we have once
asserted; as, to maintain one's cause, to maintain an argument, to
maintain the ground we have taken. To vindicate is to use language
and measures of the strongest kind, in defense of ourselves and those
for whom we act. We maintain our assertions by adducing proofs,
facts, or arguments; we are ready to vindicate our rights or
interests by the utmost exertion of our powers.

ASSERTER
As*sert"er, n.

Defn: One who asserts; one who avers pr maintains; an assertor.
The inflexible asserter of the rights of the church. Milman.

ASSERTION
As*ser"tion, n. Etym: [L. assertio, fr. asserere.]

1. The act of asserting, or that which is asserted; positive
declaration or averment; affirmation; statement asserted; position
advanced.
There is a difference between assertion and demonstration. Macaulay.

2. Maintenance; vindication; as, the assertion of one's rights or
prerogatives.

ASSERTIVE
As*sert"ive, a.

Defn: Positive; affirming confidently; affirmative; peremptory.
In a confident and assertive form. Glanvill.
As*sert"ive*ly, adv.
 -- As*sert"ive*ness, n.

ASSERTOR
As*sert"or, n. Etym: [L., fr. asserere.]

Defn: One who asserts or avers; one who maintains or vindicates a
claim or a right; an affirmer, supporter, or vindicator; a defender;
an asserter.
The assertors of liberty said not a word. Macaulay.
Faithful assertor of thy country's cause. Prior.

ASSERTORIAL
As`ser*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Asserting that a thing is; -- opposed to problematical and
apodeictical.

ASSERTORY
As*sert"o*ry, a. Etym: [L. assertorius, fr. asserere.]

Defn: Affirming; maintaining.
Arguments . . . assertory, not probatory. Jer. Taylor.
An assertory, not a promissory, declaration. Bentham.
A proposition is assertory, when it enounces what is known as actual.
Sir W. Hamilton.

ASSESS
As*sess", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assessed; p. pr. & vb. n. Assessing.]
Etym: [OF. assesser to regulate, settle, LL. assessare to value for
taxation, fr. L. assidere, supine as if assessum, to sit by, esp. of
judges in a court, in LL. to assess, tax. Cf. Assize, v., Cess.]

1. To value; to make a valuation or official estimate of for the
purpose of taxation.

2. To apportion a sum to be paid by (a person, a community, or an
estate), in the nature of a tax, fine, etc.; to impose a tax upon (a
person, an estate, or an income) according to a rate or
apportionment.

3. To determine and impose a tax or fine upon (a person, community,
estate, or income); to tax; as, the club assessed each member twenty-
five cents.

4. To fix or determine the rate or amount of.
This sum is assessed and raised upon individuals by commissioners in
the act. Blackstone.

ASSESSABLE
As*sess"a*ble, a.

Defn: Liable to be assessed or taxed; as, assessable property.

ASSESSEE
As`sess*ee", n.

Defn: One who is assessed.

ASSESSION
As*ses"sion, n. Etym: [L. assessio, fr. assid to sit by or near; ad +
sed to sit. See Sit.]

Defn: A sitting beside or near.

ASSESSMENT
As*sess"ment, n. Etym: [LL. assessamentum.]

1. The act of assessing; the act of determining an amount to be paid;
as, an assessment of damages, or of taxes; an assessment of the
members of a club.

2. A valuation of property or profits of business, for the purpose of
taxation; such valuation and an adjudging of the proper sum to be
levied on the property; as, an assessment of property or an
assessment on property.

Note: An assessment is a valuation made by authorized persons
according to their discretion, as opposed to a sum certain or
determined by law. It is a valuation of the property of those who are
to pay the tax, for the purpose of fixing the proportion which each
man shall pay. Blackstone. Burrill.

3. The specific sum levied or assessed.

4. An apportionment of a subscription for stock into successive
installments; also, one of these installments (in England termed a
"call"). [U. S.]

ASSESSOR
As*sess"or, n. Etym: [L., one who sits beside, the assistant of a
judge, fr. assid. See Assession. LL., one who arranges of determines
the taxes, fr. assid. See Assess, v., and cf. Cessor.]

1. One appointed or elected to assist a judge or magistrate with his
special knowledge of the subject to be decided; as legal assessors,
nautical assessors. Mozley & W.

2. One who sits by another, as next in dignity, or as an assistant
and adviser; an associate in office.
Whence to his Son, The assessor of his throne, he thus began. Milton.
With his ignorance, his inclinations, and his fancy, as his assessors
in judgment. I. Taylor.

3. One appointed to assess persons or property for the purpose of
taxation. Bouvier.

ASSESSORIAL
As`ses*so"ri*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. assessorial, fr. L. assessor.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an assessor, or to a court of assessors.
Coxe.

ASSESSORSHIP
As*sess"or*ship, n.

Defn: The office or function of an assessor.

ASSET
As"set, n.

Defn: Any article or separable part of one's assets.

ASSETS
As"sets, n. pl. Etym: [OF. asez enough, F. assez, fr. L. ad + satis,
akin to Gr. saps full. Cf. Assai, Satisfy.]

1. (Law)
(a) Property of a deceased person, subject by law to the payment of
his debts and legacies; -- called assets because sufficient to render
the executor or administrator liable to the creditors and legatees,
so far as such goods or estate may extend. Story. Blackstone.
(b) Effects of an insolvent debtor or bankrupt, applicable to the
payment of debts.

2. The entire property of all sorts, belonging to a person, a
corporation, or an estate; as, the assets of a merchant or a trading
association; -- opposed to liabilities.

Note: In balancing accounts the assets are put on the Cr. side and
the debts on the Dr. side.

ASSEVER
As*sev"er, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OF. asseverer, fr. L. asseverare.]

Defn: See Asseverate. [Archaic]

ASSEVERATE
As*sev"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Asseverated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Asseverating.] Etym: [L. asseveratus, p. p. of asseverare to assert
seriously or earnestly; ad + severus. See Severe.]

Defn: To affirm or aver positively, or with solemnity.

Syn.
 -- To affirm; aver; protest; declare. See Affirm.

ASSEVERATION
As*sev`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. asseveratio.]

Defn: The act of asseverating, or that which is asseverated; positive
affirmation or assertion; solemn declaration.
Another abuse of the tongue I might add, -- vehement asseverations
upon slight and trivial occasions. Ray.

ASSEVERATIVE
As*sev"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by asseveration; asserting positively.

ASSEVERATORY
As*sev"er*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Asseverative.

ASSIBILATE
As*sib"i*late, v. t. Etym: [L. assibilatus, p. p. of assibilare to
hiss out; ad + sibilare to hiss.]

Defn: To make sibilant; to change to a sibilant. J. Peile.

ASSIBILATION
As*sib`i*la"tion, n.

Defn: Change of a non-sibilant letter to a sibilant, as of -tion to -
shun, duke to ditch.

ASSIDEAN
As`si*de"an, n. Etym: [Heb. khasad to be pious.]

Defn: One of a body of devoted Jews who opposed the Hellenistic Jews,
and supported the Asmoneans.

ASSIDENT
As"si*dent, a. Etym: [L. assidens, p. pr. of assid to sit by: cf. F.
assident. See Assession.] (Med.)

Defn: Usually attending a disease, but not always; as, assident
signs, or symptoms.

ASSIDUATE
As*sid"u*ate, a. Etym: [L. assiduatus, p. p. of assiduare to use
assiduously.]

Defn: Unremitting; assiduous. [Obs.] "Assiduate labor." Fabyan.

ASSIDUITY
As`si*du"i*ty, n.; pl. Assiduities. Etym: [L. assiduitas: cf. F.
assiduite. See Assiduous.]

1. Constant or close application or attention, particularly to some
business or enterprise; diligence.
I have, with much pains and assiduity, qualified myself for a
nomenclator. Addison.

2. Studied and persevering attention to a person; -- usually in the
plural.

ASSIDUOUS
As*sid"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. assiduus, fr. assid to sit near or close;
ad + sed to sit. See Sit.]

1. Constant in application or attention; devoted; attentive;
unremitting.
She grows more assiduous in her attendance. Addison.

2. Performed with constant diligence or attention; unremitting;
persistent; as, assiduous labor.
To weary him with my assiduous cries. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Diligent; attentive; sedulous; unwearied; unintermitted;
persevering; laborious; indefatigable. As*sid"u*ous*ly, adv.
 -- As*sid"u*ous*ness, n.

ASSIEGE
As*siege", v. t. Etym: [OE. asegen, OF. asegier, F. assiéger, fr. LL.
assediare, assidiare, to besiege. See Siege.]

Defn: To besiege. [Obs.] "Assieged castles." Spenser.

ASSIEGE
As*siege", n.

Defn: A siege. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ASSIENTIST
As`si*en"tist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. assientiste, Sp. asentista.]

Defn: A shareholder of the Assiento company; one of the parties to
the Assiento contract. Bancroft.

ASSIENTO
As`si*en"to, n. Etym: [Sp. asiento seat, contract or agreement, fr.
asentar to place on a chair, to adjust, to make an agreement; a (L.
ad) + sentar, a participial verb; as if there were a L. sedentare to
cause to sit, fr. sedens, sedentis, p. pr. of sed to sit.]

Defn: A contract or convention between Spain and other powers for
furnishing negro slaves for the Spanish dominions in America, esp.
the contract made with Great Britain in 1713.

ASSIGN
As*sign", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assigned; p. pr. & vb. n. Assigning.]
Etym: [OE. assignen, asignen, F. assigner, fr. L. assignare; ad +
signare to mark, mark out, designate, signum mark, sign. See Sign.]

1. To appoint; to allot; to apportion; to make over.
In the order I assign to them. Loudon.
The man who could feel thus was worthy of a better station than that
in which his lot had been assigned. Southey.
He assigned to his men their several posts. Prescott.

2. To fix, specify, select, or designate; to point out
authoritatively or exactly; as, to assign a limit; to assign counsel
for a prisoner; to assign a day for trial.
All as the dwarf the way to her assigned. Spenser.
It is not easy to assign a period more eventful. De Quincey.

3. (Law)

Defn: To transfer, or make over to another, esp. to transfer to, and
vest in, certain persons, called assignees, for the benefit of
creditors. To assign dower, to set out by metes and bounds the
widow's share or portion in an estate. Kent.

ASSIGN
As*sign", n. Etym: [From Assign, v.]

Defn: A thing pertaining or belonging to something else; an
appurtenance. [Obs.]
Six French rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdles,
hangers, and so. Shak.

ASSIGN
As*sign", n. Etym: [See Assignee.] (Law)

Defn: A person to whom property or an interest is transferred; as, a
deed to a man and his heirs and assigns.

ASSIGNABILITY
As*sign`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being assignable.

ASSIGNABLE
As*sign"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being assigned, allotted, specified, or designated;
as, an assignable note or bill; an assignable reason; an assignable
quantity.

ASSIGNAT
As`si`gnat", n. Etym: [F. assignat, fr. L. assignatus, p. p. of
assignare.]

Defn: One of the notes, bills, or bonds, issued as currency by the
revolutionary government of France (1790-1796), and based on the
security of the lands of the church and of nobles which had been
appropriated by the state.

ASSIGNATION
As`sig*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. assignatio, fr. assignare: cf. F.
assignation.]

1. The act of assigning or allotting; apportionment.
This order being taken in the senate, as touching the appointment and
assignation of those provinces. Holland.

2. An appointment of time and place for meeting or interview; -- used
chiefly of love interviews, and now commonly in a bad sense.
While nymphs take treats, or assignations give. Pope.

3. A making over by transfer of title; assignment. House of
assignation, a house in which appointments for sexual intercourse are
fulfilled.

ASSIGNEE
As`sign*ee", n. Etym: [F. assigné, p. p. of assigner. See Assign, v.,
and cf. Assign an assignee.] (Law)
(a) A person to whom an assignment is made; a person appointed or
deputed by another to do some act, perform some business, or enjoy
some right, privilege, or property; as, an assignee of a bankrupt.
See Assignment (c). An assignee may be by special appointment or
deed, or be created by jaw; as an executor. Cowell. Blount. (b) pl.

Defn: In England, the persons appointed, under a commission of
bankruptcy, to manage the estate of a bankrupt for the benefit of his
creditors.

ASSIGNER
As*sign"er, n.

Defn: One who assigns, appoints, allots, or apportions.

ASSIGNMENT
As*sign"ment, n. Etym: [LL. assignamentum: cf. OF. assenement.]

1. An allotting or an appointment to a particular person or use; or
for a particular time, as of a cause or causes in court.

2. (Law)
(a) A transfer of title or interest by writing, as of lease, bond,
note, or bill of exchange; a transfer of the whole of some particular
estate or interest in lands.
(b) The writing by which an interest is transferred.
(c) The transfer of the property of a bankrupt to certain persons
called assignees, in whom it is vested for the benefit of creditors.
Assignment of dower, the setting out by metes and bounds of the
widow's thirds or portion in the deceased husband's estate, and
allotting it to her.

Note: Assignment is also used in law as convertible with
specification; assignment of error in proceedings for review being
specification of error; and assignment of perjury or fraud in
indictment being specifications of perjury or fraud.

ASSIGNOR
As`sign*or", n. Etym: [L. assignator. Cf. Assigner.] (Law)

Defn: An assigner; a person who assigns or transfers an interest; as,
the assignor of a debt or other chose in action.

ASSIMILABILITY
As*sim`i*la*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being assimilable. [R.] Coleridge.

ASSIMILABLE
As*sim"i*la*ble, a.

Defn: That may be assimilated; that may be likened, or appropriated
and incorporated.

ASSIMILATE
As*sim"i*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assimilated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Assimilating.] Etym: [L. assimilatus, p. p. of assimilare; ad +
similare to make like, similis like. See Similar, Assemble,
Assimilate.]

1. To bring to a likeness or to conformity; to cause a resemblance
between. Sir M. Hale.
To assimilate our law to the law of Scotland. John Bright.
Fast falls a fleecy; the downy flakes Assimilate all objects. Cowper.

2. To liken; to compa [R.]

3. To appropriate and transform or incorporate into the substance of
the assimilating body; to absorb or appropriate, as nourishment; as,
food is assimilated and converted into organic tissue.
Hence also animals and vegetables may assimilate their nourishment.
Sir I. Newton.
His mind had no power to assimilate the lessons. Merivale.

ASSIMILATE
As*sim"i*late, v. i.

1. To become similar or like something else. [R.]

2. To change and appropriate nourishment so as to make it a part of
the substance of the assimilating body.
Aliment easily assimilated or turned into blood. Arbuthnot.

3. To be converted into the substance of the assimilating body; to
become incorporated; as, some kinds of food assimilate more readily
than others.
I am a foreign material, and cannot assimilate with the church of
England. J. H. Newman.

ASSIMILATION
As*sim`i*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. assimilatio: cf. F. assimilation.]

1. The act or process of assimilating or bringing to a resemblance,
likeness, or identity; also, the state of being so assimilated; as,
the assimilation of one sound to another.
To aspire to an assimilation with God. Dr. H. More.
The assimilation of gases and vapors. Sir J. Herschel.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The conversion of nutriment into the fluid or solid substance
of the body, by the processes of digestion and absorption, whether in
plants or animals.
Not conversing the body, not repairing it by assimilation, but
preserving it by ventilation. Sir T. Browne.

Note: The term assimilation has been limited by some to the final
process by which the nutritive matter of the blood is converted into
the substance of the tissues and organs.

ASSIMILATIVE
As*sim"i*la*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. assimilativus, F. assimilatif.]

Defn: Tending to, or characterized by, assimilation; that assimilates
or causes assimilation; as, an assimilative process or substance.

ASSIMILATORY
As*sim"i*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Tending to assimilate, or produce assimilation; as,
assimilatory organs.

ASSIMULATE
As*sim"u*late, v. t. Etym: [L. assimulatus, p. p. of assimulare,
equiv. to assimilare. See Assimilate, v. t.]

1. To feign; to counterfeit; to simulate; to resemble. [Obs.] Blount.

2. To assimilate. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

ASSIMULATION
As*sim`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. assimulatio, equiv. to assimilatio.]

Defn: Assimilation. [Obs.] Bacon.

ASSINEGO
As`si*ne"go, n.

Defn: See Asinego.

ASSISH
Ass"ish, a.

Defn: Resembling an ass; asinine; stupid or obstinate.
Such . . . appear to be of the assich kind . . . Udall.

ASSIST
As*sist", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assisted; p. pr. & vb. n. Assisting.]
Etym: [L. assistere; ad + sistere to cause to stand, to stand, from
stare to stand: cf. F. assister. See Stand.]

Defn: To give support to in some undertaking or effort, or in time of
distress; to help; to aid; to succor.
Assist me, knight. I am undone! Shak.

Syn.
 -- To help; aid; second; back; support; relieve; succor; befriend;
sustain; favor. See Help.

ASSIST
As*sist", v. i.

1. To lend aid; to help.
With God not parted from him, as was feared, But favoring and
assisting to the end. Milton.

2. To be present as a spectator; as, to assist at a public meeting.
[A Gallicism] Gibbon. Prescott.

ASSISTANCE
As*sist"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. F. assistance.]

1. The act of assisting; help; aid; furtherance; succor; support.
Without the assistance of a mortal hand. Shak.

2. An assistant or helper; a body of helpers. [Obs.]
Wat Tyler [was] killed by valiant Walworth, the lord mayor of London,
and his assistance, . . . John Cavendish. Fuller.

3. Persons present. [Obs. or a Gallicism]

ASSISTANT
As*sist"ant, a. Etym: [Cf. F. assistant, p. pr. of assister.]

1. Helping; lending aid or support; auxiliary.
Genius and learning . . . are mutually and greatly assistant to each
other. Beattie.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: Of the second grade in the staff of the army; as, an assistant
surgeon. [U.S.]

Note: In the English army it designates the third grade in any
particular branch of the staff. Farrow.

ASSISTANT
As*sist"ant, n.

1. One who, or that which, assists; a helper; an auxiliary; a means
of help.
Four assistants who his labor share. Pope.
Rhymes merely as assistants to memory. Mrs. Chapone.

2. An attendant; one who is present. Dryden.

ASSISTANTLY
As*sist"ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner to give aid. [R.]

ASSISTER
As*sist"er, n.

Defn: An assistant; a helper.

ASSISTFUL
As*sist"ful, a.

Defn: Helpful.

ASSISTIVE
As*sist"ive, a.

Defn: Lending aid, helping.

ASSISTLESS
As*sist"less, a.

Defn: Without aid or help. [R.] Pope.

ASSISTOR
As*sist"or, n. (Law)

Defn: A assister.

ASSITHMENT
As*sith"ment, n.

Defn: See Assythment. [Obs.]

ASSIZE
As*size", n. Etym: [OE. assise, asise, OF. assise, F. assises,
assembly of judges, the decree pronounced by them, tax, impost, fr.
assis, assise, p. p. of asseoir, fr. L. assid to sit by; ad + sed to
sit. See Sit, Size, and cf. Excise, Assess.]

1. An assembly of knights and other substantial men, with a bailiff
or justice, in a certain place and at a certain time, for public
business. [Obs.]

2. (Law)
(a) A special kind of jury or inquest.
(b) A kind of writ or real action.
(c) A verdict or finding of a jury upon such writ.
(d) A statute or ordinance in general. Specifically: (1) A statute
regulating the weight, measure, and proportions of ingredients and
the price of articles sold in the market; as, the assize of bread and
other provisions; (2) A statute fixing the standard of weights and
measures.
(e) Anything fixed or reduced to a certainty in point of time,
number, quantity, quality, weight, measure, etc.; as, rent of assize.
Glanvill. Spelman. Cowell. Blackstone. Tomlins. Burrill.

Note: [This term is not now used in England in the sense of a writ or
real action, and seldom of a jury of any kind, but in Scotch practice
it is still technically applied to the jury in criminal cases.
Stephen. Burrill. Erskine.]
(f) A court, the sitting or session of a court, for the trial of
processes, whether civil or criminal, by a judge and jury.
Blackstone. Wharton. Encyc. Brit.
(g) The periodical sessions of the judges of the superior courts in
every county of England for the purpose of administering justice in
the trial and determination of civil and criminal cases; -- usually
in the plural. Brande. Wharton. Craig. Burrill.
(h) The time or place of holding the court of assize; -- generally in
the plural, assizes.

3. Measure; dimension; size. [In this sense now corrupted into size.]
An hundred cubits high by just assize. Spenser.
[Formerly written, as in French, assise.]

ASSIZE
As*size", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assized; p. pr. & vb. n. Assizing.]
Etym: [From Assize, n.: cf. LL. assisare to decree in assize. Cf.
Asses, v.]

1. To assess; to value; to rate. [Obs.] Gower.

2. To fix the weight, measure, or price of, by an ordinance or
regulation of authority. [Obs.]

ASSIZER
As*siz"er, n.

Defn: An officer who has the care or inspection of weights and
measures, etc.

ASSIZOR
As*siz"or, n. (Scots Law)

Defn: A juror.

ASSOBER
As*so"ber, v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + sober. Cf. Ensober.]

Defn: To make or keep sober. [Obs.] Gower.

ASSOCIABILITY
As*so`cia*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being associable, or capable of association;
associableness. "The associability of feelings." H. Spencer.

ASSOCIABLE
As*so"cia*ble, a. Etym: [See Associate.]

1. Capable of being associated or joined.
We know feelings to be associable only by the proved ability of one
to revive another. H. Spencer.

2. Sociable; companionable. [Obs.]

3. (Med.)

Defn: Liable to be affected by sympathy with other parts; -- said of
organs, nerves, muscles, etc.
The stomach, the most associable of all the organs of the animal
body. Med. Rep.

ASSOCIABLENESS
As*so"cia*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Associability.

ASSOCIATE
As*so"ci*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Associated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Associating.] Etym: [L. associatus, p. p. of associare; ad + sociare
to join or unite, socius companion. See Social.]

1. To join with one, as a friend, companion, partner, or confederate;
as, to associate others with .

2. To join or connect; to combine in acting; as, particles of gold
associated with other substances.

3. To connect or place together in thought.
He succeeded in associating his name inseparably with some names
which will last an long as our language. Macaulay.

4. To accompany; to keep company with. [Obs.]
Friends should associate friends in grief and woe. Shak.

ASSOCIATE
As*so"ci*ate, v. i.

1. To unite in company; to keep company, implying intimacy; as,
congenial minds are disposed to associate.

2. To unite in action, or to be affected by the action of a different
part of the body. E. Darwin.

ASSOCIATE
As*so"ci*ate, a. Etym: [L. associatus, p. p.]

1. Closely connected or joined with some other, as in interest,
purpose, employment, or office; sharing responsibility or authority;
as, an associate judge.
While I descend . . . to my associate powers. Milton.

2. Admitted to some, but not to all, rights and privileges; as, an
associate member.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: Connected by habit or sympathy; as, associate motions, such as
occur sympathetically, in consequence of preceding motions. E.
Darwin.

ASSOCIATE
As*so"ci*ate, n.

1. A companion; one frequently in company with another, implying
intimacy or equality; a mate; a fellow.

2. A partner in interest, as in business; or a confederate in a
league.

3. One connected with an association or institution without the full
rights or privileges of a regular member; as, an associate of the
Royal Academy.

4. Anything closely or usually connected with another; an
concomitant.
The one [idea] no sooner comes into the understanding, than its
associate appears with it. Locke.

Syn.
 -- Companion; mate; fellow; friend; ally; partner; coadjutor;
comrade; accomplice.

ASSOCIATED
As*so"ci*a`ted, a.

Defn: Joined as a companion; brought into association; accompanying;
combined. Associated movements (Physiol.), consensual movements which
accompany voluntary efforts without our consciousness. Dunglison.

ASSOCIATESHIP
As*so"ci*ate*ship, n.

Defn: The state of an associate, as in Academy or an office.

ASSOCIATION
As*so`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. association, LL. associatio, fr. L.
associare.]

1. The act of associating, or state of being associated; union;
connection, whether of persons of things. "Some . . . bond of
association." Hooker.
Self-denial is a kind of holy association with God. Boyle.

2. Mental connection, or that which is mentally linked or associated
with a thing.
Words . . . must owe their powers association. Johnson.
Why should . . . the holiest words, with all their venerable
associations, be profaned Coleridge.

3. Union of persons in a company or society for some particular
purpose; as, the American Association for the Advancement of Science;
a benevolent association. Specifically, as among the
Congregationalists, a society, consisting of a number of ministers,
generally the pastors of neighboring churches, united for promoting
the interests of religion and the harmony of the churches.
Association of ideas (Physiol.), the combination or connection of
states of mind or their objects with one another, as the result of
which one is said to be revived or represented by means of the other.
The relations according to which they are thus connected or revived
are called the law of association. Prominent among them are reckoned
the relations of time and place, and of cause and effect. Porter.

ASSOCIATIONAL
As*so`ci*a"tion*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to association, or to an association.

2. Pertaining to the theory held by the associationists.

ASSOCIATIONISM
As*so`ci*a"tion*ism, n. (Philos.)

Defn: The doctrine or theory held by associationists.

ASSOCIATIONIST
As*so`ci*a"tion*ist, n. (Philos.)

Defn: One who explains the higher functions and relations of the soul
by the association of ideas; e. g., Hartley, J. C. Mill.

ASSOCIATIVE
As*so"ci*a*tive, a.

Defn: Having the quality of associating; tending or leading to
association; as, the associative faculty. Hugh Miller.

ASSOCIATOR
As*so"ci*a`tor, n.

Defn: An associate; a confederate or partner in any scheme.
How Pennsylvania's air agrees with Quakers, And Carolina's with
associators. Dryden.

ASSOIL
As*soil", v. t. Etym: [OF. assoiler, absoiler, assoldre, F. absoudre,
L. absolvere. See Absolve.]

1. To set free; to release. [Archaic]
Till from her hands the spright assoiled is. Spenser.

2. To solve; to clear up. [Obs.]
Any child might soon be able to assoil this riddle. Bp. Jewel.

3. To set free from guilt; to absolve. [Archaic]
Acquitted and assoiled from the guilt. Dr. H. More.
Many persons think themselves fairly assoiled, because they are . . .
not of scandalous lives. Jer. Taylor.

4. To expiate; to atone for. [Archaic] Spenser.
Let each act assoil a fault. E. Arnold.

5. To remove; to put off. [Obs.]
She soundly slept, and careful thoughts did quite assoil. Spenser.

ASSOIL
As*soil", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + soil.]

Defn: To soil; to stain. [Obs. or Poet.] Beau. & Fl.
Ne'er assoil my cobwebbed shield. Wordsworth.

ASSOILMENT
As*soil"ment, n.

Defn: Act of assoiling, or state of being assoiled; absolution;
acquittal.

ASSOILMENT
As*soil"ment, n.

Defn: A soiling; defilement.

ASSOILZIE; ASSOILYIE
As*soil"zie, As*soil"yie, v. t. Etym: [Old form assoil. See Assoil.]
(Scots Law)

Defn: To absolve; to acquit by sentence of court.
God assoilzie him for the sin of bloodshed. Sir W. Scott.

ASSONANCE
As"so*nance, n. Etym: [Cf. F. assonance. See Assonant.]

1. Resemblance of sound. "The disagreeable assonance of Steevens.

2. (Pros.)

Defn: A peculiar species of rhyme, in which the last accented vowel
and those which follow it in one word correspond in sound with the
vowels of another word, while the consonants of the two words are
unlike in sound; as, calamo and platano, baby and chary.
The assonance is peculiar to the Spaniard. Hallam.

3. Incomplete correspondence.
Assonance between facts seemingly remote. Lowell.

ASSONANT
As"so*nant, a. Etym: [L. assonans, p. pr. of assonare to sound to, to
correspond to in sound; ad + sonare to sound, sonus sound: cf. F.
assonant. See Sound.]

1. Having a resemblance of sounds.

2. (Pros.)

Defn: Pertaining to the peculiar species of rhyme called assonance;
not consonant.

ASSONANTAL
As`so*nan"tal, a.

Defn: Assonant.

ASSONATE
As"so*nate, v. i. Etym: [L. assonare, assonatum, to respond to.]

Defn: To correspond in sound.

ASSORT
As*sort", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assorted; p. pr. & vb. n. Assorting.]
Etym: [F. assortir; (L. ad) + sortir to cast or draw lots, to obtain
by lot, L. sortiri, fr. sors, sortis, lot. See Sort.]

1. To separate and distribute into classes, as things of a like kind,
nature, or quality, or which are suited to a like purpose; to
classify; as, to assort goods.

Note: [Rarely applied to persons.]
They appear . . . no ways assorted to those with whom they must
associate. Burke.

2. To furnish with, or make up of, various sorts or a variety of
goods; as, to assort a cargo.

ASSORT
As*sort", v. i.

Defn: To agree; to be in accordance; to be adapted; to suit; to fall
into a class or place. Mitford.

ASSORTED
As*sort"ed, a.

Defn: Selected; culled.

ASSORTMENT
As*sort"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. assortiment.]

1. Act of assorting, or distributing into sorts, kinds, or classes.

2. A collection or quantity of things distributed into kinds or
sorts; a number of things assorted.

3. A collection containing a variety of sorts or kinds adapted to
various wants, demands, or purposes; as, an assortment of goods.

ASSOT
As*sot", v. t. Etym: [OF. asoter, F. assoter; ad) + sot stupid. See
Sot.]

Defn: To besot; to befool; to beguile; to infatuate. [Obs.]
Some ecstasy assotted had his sense. Spenser.

ASSOT
As*sot", a.

Defn: Dazed; foolish; infatuated. [Obs.]
Willie, I ween thou be assot. Spenser.

ASSUAGE
As*suage", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assuaged; p. pr. & vb. n. Assuaging.]
Etym: [OE. asuagen, aswagen, OF. asoagier, asuagier, fr. assouagier,
fr. L. ad + suavis sweet. See Sweet.]

Defn: To soften, in a figurative sense; to allay, mitigate, ease, or
lessen, as heat, pain, or grief; to appease or pacify, as passion or
tumult; to satisfy, as appetite or desire.
Refreshing winds the summer's heat assuage. Addison.
To assuage the sorrows of a desolate old man Burke.
The fount at which the panting mind assuages Her thirst of knowledge.
Byron.

Syn.
 -- To alleviate; mitigate; appease; soothe; calm; tranquilize;
relieve. See Alleviate.

ASSUAGE
As*suage", v. i.

Defn: To abate or subside. [Archaic] "The waters assuaged." Gen. vii.
1.
The plague being come to a crisis, its fury began to assuage. De Foe.

ASSUAGEMENT
As*suage"ment, n. Etym: [OF. assouagement, asuagement.]

Defn: Mitigation; abatement.

ASSUAGER
As*sua"ger, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, assuages.

ASSUASIVE
As*sua"sive, a. Etym: [From assuage, as if this were fr. a supposed
L. assuadere to persuade to; or from E. pref. ad + -suasive as in
persuasive.]

Defn: Mitigating; tranquilizing; soothing. [R.]
Music her soft assuasive voice applies. Pope.

ASSUBJUGATE
As*sub"ju*gate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + subjugate.]

Defn: To bring into subjection. [Obs.] Shak.

ASSUEFACTION
As`sue*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. assuefacere to accustom to; assuetus
(p. p. of assuescere to accustom to) + facere to make; cf. OF.
assuefaction.]

Defn: The act of accustoming, or the state of being accustomed;
habituation. [Obs.]
Custom and studies efform the soul like wax, and by assuefaction
introduce a nature. Jer. Taylor.

ASSUETUDE
As"sue*tude, n. Etym: [L. assuetudo, fr. assuetus accustomed.]

Defn: Accustomedness; habit; habitual use.
Assuetude of things hurtful doth make them lose their force to hurt.
Bacon.

ASSUMABLE
As*sum"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be assumed.

ASSUMABLY
As*sum"a*bly, adv.

Defn: By way of assumption.

ASSUME
As*sume", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assumed; p. pr. & vb. n. Assuming.]
Etym: [L. assumere; ad + sumere to take; sub + emere to take, buy:
cf. F. assumer. See Redeem.]

1. To take to or upon one's self; to take formally and
demonstratively; sometimes, to appropriate or take unjustly.
Trembling they stand while Jove assumes the throne. Pope.
The god assumed his native form again. Pope.

2. To take for granted, or without proof; to suppose as a fact; to
suppose or take arbitrarily or tentatively.
The consequences of assumed principles. Whewell.

3. To pretend to possess; to take in appearance.
Ambition assuming the mask of religion. Porteus.
Assume a virtue, if you have it not. Shak.

4. To receive or adopt.
The sixth was a young knight of lesser renown and lower rank, assumed
into that honorable company. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- To arrogate; usurp; appropriate.

ASSUME
As*sume", v. i.

1. To be arrogant or pretentious; to claim more than is due. Bp.
Burnet.

2. (Law)

Defn: To undertake, as by a promise. Burrill.

ASSUMED
As*sumed", a.

1. Supposed.

2. Pretended; hypocritical; make-believe; as, an assumed character.

ASSUMEDLY
As*sum"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: By assumption.

ASSUMENT
As*sum"ent, n. Etym: [L. assumentum, fr. ad + suere to sew.]

Defn: A patch; an addition; a piece put on. [Obs.] John Lewis (1731).

ASSUMER
As*sum"er, n.

Defn: One who assumes, arrogates, pretends, or supposes. W. D.
Whitney.

ASSUMING
As*sum"ing, a.

Defn: Pretentious; taking much upon one's self; presumptuous. Burke.

ASSUMPSIT
As*sump"sit, n. Etym: [L., he undertook, pret. of L. assumere. See
Assume.] (Law)
(a) A promise or undertaking, founded on a consideration. This
promise may be oral or in writing not under seal. It may be express
or implied.
(b) An action to recover damages for a breach or nonperformance of a
contract or promise, express or implied, oral or in writing not under
seal. Common or indebitatus assumpsit is brought for the most part on
an implied promise. Special assumpsit is founded on an express
promise or undertaking. Wharton.

ASSUMPT
As*sumpt", v. t. Etym: [L. assumptus, p. p. of assumere. See Assume.]

Defn: To take up; to elevate; to assume. [Obs.] Sheldon.

ASSUMPT
As*sumpt", n. Etym: [L. assumptum, p. p. neut. of assumere.]

Defn: That which is assumed; an assumption. [Obs.]
The sun of all your assumpts is this. Chillingworth.

ASSUMPTION
As*sump"tion, n. Etym: [OE. assumpcioun a taking up into heaven, L.
assumptio a taking, fr. assumere: cf. F. assomption. See Assume.]

1. The act of assuming, or taking to or upon one's self; the act of
taking up or adopting.
The assumption of authority. Whewell.

2. The act of taking for granted, or supposing a thing without proof;
supposition; unwarrantable claim.
This gives no sanction to the unwarrantable assumption that the soul
sleeps from the period of death to the resurrection of the body.
Thodey.
That calm assumption of the virtues. W. Black.

3. The thing supposed; a postulate, or proposition assumed; a
supposition.
Hold! says the Stoic; your assumption's wrong. Dryden.

4. (Logic)

Defn: The minor or second proposition in a categorical syllogism.

5. The taking of a person up into heaven. Hence: (Rom. Cath. & Greek
Churches)

Defn: A festival in honor of the ascent of the Virgin Mary into
heaven.

ASSUMPTIVE
As*sump"tive, a. Etym: [L. assumptivus, fr. assumptus, fr. assumere.]

Defn: Assumed, or capable of being assumed; characterized by
assumption; making unwarranted claims.
 -- As*sump"tive*ly, adv. Assumptive arms (Her.), originally, arms
which a person had a right to assume, in consequence of an exploit;
now, those assumed without sanction of the Heralds' College. Percy
Smith.

ASSURANCE
As*sur"ance, n. Etym: [OE. assuraunce, F. assurance, fr. assurer. See
Assure.]

1. The act of assuring; a declaration tending to inspire full
confidence; that which is designed to give confidence.
Whereof he hath given assurance unto all men, in that he hath raised
him from the dead. Acts xvii. 31.
Assurances of support came pouring in daily. Macaulay.

2. The state of being assured; firm persuasion; full confidence or
trust; freedom from doubt; certainty.
Let us draw with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our
hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience. Heb. x. 22.

3. Firmness of mind; undoubting, steadiness; intrepidity; courage;
confidence; self-reliance.
Brave men meet danger with assurance. Knolles.
Conversation with the world will give them knowledge and assurance.
Locke.

4. Excess of boldness; impudence; audacity; as, his assurance is
intolerable.

5. Betrothal; affiance. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

6. Insurance; a contract for the payment of a sum on occasion of a
certain event, as loss or death.

Note: Recently, assurance has been used, in England, in relation to
life contingencies, and insurance in relation to other contingencies.
It is called temporary assurance, in the time within which the
contingent event must happen is limited. See Insurance.

7. (Law)

Defn: Any written or other legal evidence of the conveyance of
property; a conveyance; a deed.

Note: In England, the legal evidences of the conveyance of property
are called the common assurances of the kingdom. Blackstone.

ASSURE
As*sure, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assured; p. pr. & vb. n. Assuring.]
Etym: [OF. aseürer, F. assurer, LL. assecurare; L. ad + securus
secure, sure, certain. See Secure, Sure, and cf. Insure.]

1. To make sure or certain; to render confident by a promise,
declaration, or other evidence.
His promise that thy seed shall bruise our foe . . . Assures me that
the bitterness of death Is past, and we shall live. Milton.

2. To declare to, solemnly; to assert to (any one) with the design of
inspiring belief or confidence.
I dare assure thee that no enemy Shall ever take alive the noble
Brutus. Shak.

3. To confirm; to make certain or secure.
And it shall be assured to him. Lev. xxvii. 19.
And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our
hearts before him. 1 John iii. 19.

4. To affiance; to betroth. [Obs.] Shak.

5. (Law)

Defn: To insure; to covenant to indemnify for loss, or to pay a
specified sum at death. See Insure.

Syn.
 -- To declare; aver; avouch; vouch; assert; asseverate; protest;
persuade; convince.

ASSURED
As*sured", a.

Defn: Made sure; safe; insured; certain; indubitable; not doubting;
bold to excess.

ASSURED
As*sured", n.

Defn: One whose life or property is insured.

ASSUREDLY
As*sur"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Certainly; indubitably. "The siege assuredly I'll raise." Shak.

ASSUREDNESS
As*sur"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being assured; certainty; full confidence.

ASSURER
As*sur"er, n.

1. One who assures. Specifically: One who insures against loss; an
insurer or underwriter.

2. One who takes out a life assurance policy.

ASSURGENCY
As*sur"gen*cy, n.

Defn: Act of rising.
The . . . assurgency of the spirit through the body. Coleridge.

ASSURGENT
As*sur"gent, a. Etym: [L. assurgens, p. pr. of assurgere; ad +
surgere to rise.]

Defn: Ascending; (Bot.)

Defn: rising obliquely; curving upward. Gray.

ASSURING
As*sur"ing, a.

Defn: That assures; tending to assure; giving confidence.
 -- As*sur"ing*ly, adv.

ASSWAGE
As*swage", v.

Defn: See Assuage.

ASSYRIAN
As*syr"i*an, a. Etym: [L. Assyrius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Assyria, or to its inhabitants.
 -- n. A native or an inhabitant of Assyria; the language of Assyria.

ASSYRIOLOGICAL
As*syr`i*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Assyriology; as, Assyriological studies.

ASSYRIOLOGIST
As*syr`i*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in Assyriology; a student of Assyrian archæology.

ASSYRIOLOGY
As*syr`i*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Assyria + -logy.]

Defn: The science or study of the antiquities, language, etc., of
ancient Assyria.

ASSYTHMENT
As*syth"ment, n. Etym: [From OF. aset, asez, orig. meaning enough.
See Assets.]

Defn: Indemnification for injury; satisfaction. [Chiefly in Scots
law]

ASTACUS
As"ta*cus, n. Etym: [L. astacus a crab, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of crustaceans, containing the crawfish of fresh-water
lobster of Europe, and allied species of western North America. See
Crawfish.

ASTARBOARD
A*star"board, adv. (Naut.)

Defn: Over to the starboard side; -- said of the tiller.

ASTART
A*start", v. t. & i.

Defn: Same as Astert. [Obs.]

ASTARTE
As*tar"te, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of bivalve mollusks, common on the coasts of America
and Europe.

ASTATE
A*state", n.

Defn: Estate; state. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ASTATIC
A*stat"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + static.] (Magnetism)

Defn: Having little or no tendency to take a fixed or definite
position or direction: thus, a suspended magnetic needle, when
rendered astatic, loses its polarity, or tendency to point in a given
direction. Astatic pair (Magnetism), a pair of magnetic needles so
mounted as to be nearly or quite astatic, as in some galvanometers.

ASTATICALLY
A*stat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an astatic manner.

ASTATICISM
A*stat"i*cism, n.

Defn: The state of being astatic.

ASTATIZE
As"ta*tize, v. i.  [imp. & p. p. Astatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Astatizing.] (Magnetism)

Defn: To render astatic.

ASTATKI
As*tat"ki, n. [From Russ. ostatki remnants, pl. of ostatok.]

Defn: A thick liquid residuum obtained in the distillation of Russian
petroleum, much used as fuel.

ASTAY
A*stay", adv. (Naut.)

Defn: An anchor is said to be astay, in heaving it, an acute angle is
formed between the cable and the surface of the water.

ASTEISM
As"te*ism, n. Etym: [Gr. astéisme.] (Rhet.)

Defn: Genteel irony; a polite and ingenious manner of deriding
another.

ASTEL
As"tel, n. Etym: [OE. astelle piece of wood, OF. astele splinter,
shaving, F. attelle, astelle: cf. L. astula, dim. of assis board.]
(Mining)

Defn: An arch, or ceiling, of boards, placed over the men's heads in
a mine.

ASTER
As"ter, n. Etym: [L. aster aster, star, Gr. Star.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbs with compound white or bluish flowers;
starwort; Michaelmas daisy.

2. (Floriculture)

Defn: A plant of the genus Callistephus. Many varieties (called China
asters, German asters, etc.) are cultivated for their handsome
compound flowers.

ASTERIAS
As*te"ri*as, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of echinoderms.

Note: Formerly the group of this name included nearly all starfishes
and ophiurans. Now it is restricted to a genus including the
commonest shore starfishes.

ASTERIATED
As*te"ri*a`ted, a. Etym: [See Asterias.]

Defn: Radiated, with diverging rays; as, asteriated sapphire.

ASTERIDIAN
As`ter*id"i*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Asterioidea.
 -- n.

Defn: A starfish; one of the Asterioidea.

ASTERIOIDEA; ASTERIDEA
As*te`ri*oid"e*a, As`ter*id"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oid. See
Asterias.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of Echinodermata including the true starfishes. The
rays vary in number and always have ambulacral grooves below. The
body is starshaped or pentagonal.

ASTERION
As*te"ri*on, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The point on the side of the skull where the lambdoid, parieto-
mastoid and occipito-mastoid sutures.

ASTERISCUS
As`ter*is"cus, n. Etym: [L., an asterisk. See Asterisk.] (Anat.)

Defn: The smaller of the two otoliths found in the inner ear of many
fishes.

ASTERISK
As"ter*isk, n. Etym: [L. asteriscus, Gr. Aster.]

Defn: The figure of a star, thus,

ASTERISM
As`ter*ism, n. Etym: [Gr. astérisme.]

1. (Astron.)
(a) A constellation. [Obs.]
(b) A small cluster of stars.

2. (Printing)
(a) An asterisk, or mark of reference. [R.]
(b) Three asterisks placed in this manner, *, to direct attention to
a particular passage.

3. (Crystallog.)

Defn: An optical property of some crystals which exhibit a star-
shaped by reflected light, as star sapphire, or by transmitted light,
as some mica.

ASTERN
A*stern", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + stern.] (Naut.)

1. In or at the hinder part of a ship; toward the hinder part, or
stern; backward; as, to go astern.

2. Behind a ship; in the rear. "A gale of wind right astern." De Foe.
"Left this strait astern." Drake. To bake astern, to go stern
foremost.
 -- To be astern of the reckoning, to be behind the position given by
the reckoning.
 -- To drop astern, to fall or be left behind.
 -- To go astern, to go backward, as from the action of currents or
winds.

ASTERNAL
A*ster"nal, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + sternal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Not sternal; -- said of ribs which do not join the sternum.

ASTEROID
As"ter*oid, n. Etym: [Gr. astéroïde. See Aster.]

Defn: A starlike body; esp. one of the numerous small planets whose
orbits lie between those of Mars and Jupiter; -- called also
planetoids and minor planets.

ASTEROIDAL
As`ter*oid"al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an asteroid, or to the asteroids.

ASTEROLEPIS
As`te*rol"e*pis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of fishes, some of which were eighteen or twenty feet
long, found in a fossil state in the Old Red Sandstone. Hugh Miller.

ASTEROPE
As*ter"o*pe, n. [Gr. , lit., lightning.]

1.  (Myth.)

Defn: One of the Pleiades; -- called also Sterope.

2.  (Astron.) A double star in the Pleiades (21 k and 22 l Pleiadum,
of the 5.8 and 6.4 magnitude respectively), appearing as a single
star of the 5.3 magnitude to the naked eye.

ASTEROPHYLLITE
As`ter*oph"yl*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil plant from the coal formations of Europe and America,
now regarded as the branchlets and foliage of calamites.

ASTERT
A*stert, v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + start; OE. asterten, asturten.]

Defn: To start up; to befall; to escape; to shun. [Obs.] Spenser.

ASTERT
A*stert", v. i.

Defn: To escape. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ASTHENIA; ASTHENY
As`the*ni"a, As"the*ny, n. Etym: [NL. asthenia, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Want or loss of strength; debility; diminution of the vital
forces.

ASTHENIC
As*then"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Characterized by, or pertaining to, debility; weak;
debilitating.

ASTHENOPIA
As`the*no"pi*a, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Weakness of sight. Quain.
 -- As`the*nop"ic, a.

ASTHMA
Asth"ma, n. Etym: [Gr. va, Goth. waian, to blow, E. wind.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease, characterized by difficulty of breathing (due to a
spasmodic contraction of the bronchi), recurring at intervals,
accompanied with a wheezing sound, a sense of constriction in the
chest, a cough, and expectoration.

ASTHMA PAPER
Asth"ma pa"per.

Defn: Paper impregnated with saltpeter. The fumes from the burning
paper are often inhaled as an alleviative by asthmatics.

ASTHMATIC; ASTHMATICAL
Asth*mat"ic, Asth*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. asthmaticus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to asthma; as, an asthmatic cough; liable to,
or suffering from, asthma; as, an asthmatic patient.
 -- Asth*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

ASTHMATIC
Asth*mat"ic, n.

Defn: A person affected with asthma.

ASTIGMATIC
As`tig*mat"ic, a. (Med. & Opt.)

Defn: Affected with, or pertaining to, astigmatism; as, astigmatic
eyes; also, remedying astigmatism; as, astigmatic lenses.

ASTIGMATISM
A*stig"ma*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. astigmatisme.] (Med. & Opt.)

Defn: A defect of the eye or of a lens, in consequence of which the
rays derived from one point are not brought to a single focal point,
thus causing imperfect images or indistictness of vision.

Note: The term is applied especially to the defect causing images of
lines having a certain direction to be indistinct, or imperfectly
seen, while those of lines transverse to the former are distinct, or
clearly seen.

ASTIPULATE
As*tip"u*late, v. i. Etym: [L. astipulari; ad + stipulari to
stipulate.]

Defn: To assent. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ASTIPULATION
As*tip`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. astipulatio.]

Defn: Stipulation; agreement. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ASTIR
A*stir", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + stir.]

Defn: Stirring; in a state of activity or motion; out of bed.

ASTOMATOUS; ASTOMOUS
A*stom"a*tous, As"to*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Not possessing a mouth.

ASTON; ASTONE
As*ton", As*tone", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astoned, Astond, or Astound.]
Etym: [See Astonish.]

Defn: To stun; to astonish; to stupefy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ASTONIED
As*ton"ied, p. p.

Defn: Stunned; astonished. See Astony. [Archaic]
And I astonied fell and could not pray. Mrs. Browning.

ASTONISH
As*ton"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astonished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Astonishing.] Etym: [OE. astonien, astunian, astonen, OF. estoner, F.
étonner, fr. L. ex out + tonare to thunder, but perhaps influenced by
E. stun. See Thunder, Astound, Astony.]

1. To stun; to render senseless, as by a blow. [Obs.]
Enough, captain; you have astonished him. [Fluellen had struck
Pistol]. Shak.
The very cramp-fish [i. e., torpedo] . . . being herself not
benumbed, is able to astonish others. Holland.

2. To strike with sudden fear, terror, or wonder; to amaze; to
surprise greatly, as with something unaccountable; to confound with
some sudden emotion or passion.
Musidorus . . . had his wits astonished with sorrow. Sidney.
I, Daniel . . . was astonished at the vision. Dan. viii. 27.

Syn.
 -- To amaze; astound; overwhelm; surprise.
 -- Astonished, Surprised. We are surprised at what is unexpected. We
are astonished at what is above or beyond our comprehension. We are
taken by surprise. We are struck with astonishment. C. J. Smith. See
Amaze.

ASTONISHEDLY
As*ton"ish*ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an astonished manner. [R.] Bp. Hall.

ASTONISHING
As*ton"ish*ing, a.

Defn: Very wonderful; of a nature to excite astonishment; as, an
astonishing event.

Syn.
 -- Amazing; surprising; wonderful; marvelous. As*ton"ish*ing*ly,
adv.
 -- As*ton"ish*ing*ness, n.

ASTONISHMENT
As*ton"ish*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. est, F. étonnement.]

1. The condition of one who is stunned. Hence: Numbness; loss of
sensation; stupor; loss of sense. [Obs.]
A coldness and astonishment in his loins, as folk say. Holland.

2. Dismay; consternation. [Archaic] Spenser.

3. The overpowering emotion excited when something unaccountable,
wonderful, or dreadful is presented to the mind; an intense degree of
surprise; amazement.
Lest the place And my quaint habits breed astonishment. Milton.

4. The object causing such an emotion.
Thou shalt become an astonishment. Deut. xxviii. 37.

Syn.
 -- Amazement; wonder; surprise.

ASTONY
As*ton"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astonied; p. pr. & vb. n. Astonying.
See Astone.]

Defn: To stun; to bewilder; to astonish; to dismay. [Archaic]
The captain of the Helots . . . strake Palladius upon the side of his
head, that he reeled astonied. Sir P. Sidney.
This sodeyn cas this man astonied so, That reed he wex, abayst, and
al quaking. Chaucer.

ASTOOP
A*stoop", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + stoop.]

Defn: In a stooping or inclined position. Gay.

ASTOUND
As*tound", a. Etym: [OE. astouned, astound, astoned, p. p. of astone.
See Astone.]

Defn: Stunned; astounded; astonished. [Archaic] Spenser.
Thus Ellen, dizzy and astound. As sudden ruin yawned around. Sir W.
Scott.

ASTOUND
As*tound", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astounded, [Obs.] Astound; p. pr. &
vb. n. Astounding.] Etym: [See Astound, a.]

1. To stun; to stupefy.
No puissant stroke his senses once astound. Fairfax.

2. To astonish; to strike with amazement; to confound with wonder,
surprise, or fear.
These thoughts may startle well, but not astound The virtuous mind.
Milton.

ASTOUNDING
As*tound"ing, a.

Defn: Of a nature to astound; astonishing; amazing; as, an astounding
force, statement, or fact.
 -- As*tound"ing*ly, adv.

ASTOUNDMENT
As*tound"ment, n.

Defn: Amazement. Coleridge.

ASTRACHAN
As`tra*chan", a. & n.

Defn: See Astrakhan.

ASTRADDLE
A*strad"dle, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + straddle.]

Defn: In a straddling position; astride; bestriding; as, to sit
astraddle a horse.

ASTRAEAN
As*træ"an, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the genus Astræa or the family Astræidæ.
 -- n.

Defn: A coral of the family Astræidæ; a star coral.

ASTRAGAL
As"tra*gal, n. Etym: [L. astragalus, Gr.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A convex molding of rounded surface, generally from half to
three quarters of a circle.

2. (Gun.)

Defn: A round molding encircling a cannon near the mouth.

ASTRAGALAR
As*trag"a*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the astragalus.

ASTRAGALOID
As*trag"a*loid, a. Etym: [Astragalus + -oid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Resembling the astragalus in form.

ASTRAGALOMANCY
As*trag"a*lo*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of small bones or dice.

ASTRAGALUS
As*trag"a*lus, n. Etym: [L. See Astragal.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The ankle bone, or hock bone; the bone of the tarsus which
articulates with the tibia at the ankle.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of papilionaceous plants, of the tribe Galegeæ,
containing numerous species, two of which are called, in English,
milk vetch and licorice vetch. Gum tragacanth is obtained from
different oriental species, particularly the A. gummifer and A.
verus.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: See Astragal, 1.

ASTRAKHAN
As`tra*khan", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Astrakhan in Russia or its products; made
of an Astrakhan skin.
 -- n.

Defn: The skin of stillborn or young lambs of that region, the curled
wool of which resembles fur.

ASTRAL
As"tral, a. Etym: [L. astralis, fr. astrum star, Gr. astral. See
Star.]

Defn: Pertaining to, coming from, or resembling, the stars; starry;
starlike.
Shines only with an astral luster. I. Taylor.
Some astral forms I must invoke by prayer. Dryden.
Astral lamp, an Argand lamp so constructed that no shadow is cast
upon the table by the flattened ring-shaped reservoir in which the
oil is contained.
 -- Astral spirits, spirits formerly supposed to live in the heavenly
bodies or the aërial regions, and represented in the Middle Ages as
fallen angels, spirits of the dead, or spirits originating in fire.

ASTRAND
A*strand", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + strand.]

Defn: Stranded. Sir W. Scott.

ASTRAY
A*stray", adv. & a. Etym: [See Estray, Stray.]

Defn: Out of the right, either in a literal or in a figurative sense;
wandering; as, to lead one astray.
Ye were as sheep going astray. 1 Pet. ii. 25.

ASTRICT
As*trict", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astricted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Astricting.] Etym: [L. astrictus, p. p. of astringere. See Astringe.]

1. To bind up; to confine; to constrict; to contract.
The solid parts were to be relaxed or astricted. Arbuthnot.

2. To bind; to constrain; to restrict; to limit. [R.]
The mind is astricted to certain necessary modes or forms of thought.
Sir W. Hamilton.

3. (Scots Law)

Defn: To restrict the tenure of; as, to astrict lands. See
Astriction, 4. Burrill.

ASTRICT
As*trict", a.

Defn: Concise; contracted. [Obs.] Weever.

ASTRICTION
As*tric"tion, n. Etym: [L. astrictio.]

1. The act of binding; restriction; also, obligation. Milton.

2. (Med.)
(a) A contraction of parts by applications; the action of an
astringent substance on the animal economy. Dunglison.
(b) Constipation. Arbuthnot.

3. Astringency. [Obs.] Bacon.

4. (Scots Law)

Defn: An obligation to have the grain growing on certain lands ground
at a certain mill, the owner paying a toll. Bell.

Note: The lands were said to be astricted to the mill.

ASTRICTIVE
As*tric"tive, a.

Defn: Binding; astringent.
 -- n.

Defn: An astringent.
 -- As*tric"tive*ly, adv.

ASTRICTORY
As*tric"to*ry, a.

Defn: Astrictive. [R.]

ASTRIDE
A*stride", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + stride.]

Defn: With one leg on each side, as a man when on horseback; with the
legs stretched wide apart; astraddle.
Placed astride upon the bars of the palisade. Sir W. Scott.
Glasses with horn bows sat astride on his nose. Longfellow.

ASTRIFEROUS
As*trif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. astrifer; astrum star + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Bearing stars. [R.] Blount.

ASTRINGE
As*tringe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astringed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Astringing.] Etym: [L. astringere; ad + stringere to draw tight. Cf.
Astrict, and see Strain, v. t.]

1. To bind fast; to constrict; to contract; to cause parts to draw
together; to compress.
Which contraction . . . astringeth the moistuBacon.

2. To bind by moral or legal obligation. Wolsey.

ASTRINGENCY
As*trin"gen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being astringent; the power of contracting the
parts of the body; that quality in medicines or other substances
which causes contraction of the organic textures; as, the astringency
of tannin.

ASTRINGENT
As*trin"gent, a. Etym: [L. astringens, p. pr. of astringere: cf. F.
astringent. See Astringe.]

1. Drawing together the tissues; binding; contracting; -- opposed to
laxative; as, astringent medicines; a butter and astringent taste;
astringent fruit.

2. Stern; austere; as, an astringent type of virtue.

ASTRINGENT
As*trin"gent, n.

Defn: A medicine or other substance that produces contraction in the
soft organic textures, and checks discharges of blood, mucus, etc.
External astringents are called styptics. Dunglison.

ASTRINGENTLY
As*trin"gent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an astringent manner.

ASTRINGER
As*trin"ger, n. Etym: [OE. ostreger, OF. ostrucier, F. autoursier,
fr. OF. austour, ostor, hawk, F. autour; cf. L. acceptor, for
accipiter, hawk.]

Defn: A falconer who keeps a goschawk. [Obs.] Shak. Cowell. [Written
also austringer.]

ASTRO-
As"tro-.

Defn: The combining form of the Greek word 'a`stron, meaning star.

ASTROFEL; ASTROFELL
As"tro*fel, As"tro*fell, n.

Defn: A bitter herb, probably the same as aster, or starwort.
Spenser.

ASTROGENY
As*trog"e*ny, n. Etym: [Astro- + Gr.

Defn: The creation or evolution of the stars or the heavens. H.
Spencer.

ASTROGNOSY
As*trog"no*sy, n. Etym: [Astro- + Gr.

Defn: The science or knowledge of the stars, esp. the fixed stars.
Bouvier.

ASTROGONY
As*trog"o*ny, n.

Defn: Same as Astrogeny.
 -- As`*tro*gon"ic, a.

ASTROGRAPHY
As*trog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Astro'cf + -graphy.]

Defn: The art of describing or delineating the stars; a description
or mapping of the heavens.

ASTROITE
As"tro*ite, n. Etym: [L. astroites: cf. F. astroite.]

Defn: A radiated stone or fossil; star-stone. [Obs.] [Written also
astrite and astrion.]

ASTROLABE
As"tro*labe, n. Etym: [OE. astrolabie, astrilabe, OF. astrelabe, F.
astrolabe, LL. astrolabium, fr. Gr.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: An instrument for observing or showing the positions of the
stars. It is now disused.

Note: Among the ancients, it was essentially the armillary sphere. A
graduated circle with sights, for taking altitudes at sea, was called
an astrolabe in the 18th century. It is now superseded by the
quadrant and sextant.

2. A stereographic projection of the sphere on the plane of a great
circle, as the equator, or a meridian; a planisphere. Whewell.

ASTROLATER
As*trol"a*ter, n.

Defn: A worshiper of the stars. Morley.

ASTROLATRY
As*trol"a*try, n. Etym: [Astro- + Gr. astrolâtrie.]

Defn: The worship of the stars.

ASTROLITHOLOGY
As`tro*li*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Astro- + lithology.]

Defn: The science of aërolites.

ASTROLOGER
As*trol"o*ger, n. Etym: [See Astrology.]

1. One who studies the stars; an astronomer. [Obs.]

2. One who practices astrology; one who professes to foretell events
by the aspects and situation of the stars.

ASTROLOGIAN
As`tro*lo"gi*an, n. Etym: [OF. astrologien.]

Defn: An astrologer. [Obs.]

ASTROLOGIC; ASTROLOGICAL
As`tro*log"ic, As`tro*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to astrology; professing or practicing
astrology. "Astrologi learning." Hudibras. "Astrological
prognostication." Cudworth.
 -- As`tro*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

ASTROLOGIZE
As*trol"o*gize, v. t. & i.

Defn: To apply astrology to; to study or practice astrology.

ASTROLOGY
As*trol"o*gy, n. Etym: [F. astrologie, L. astrologia, fr. Gr. Star.]

Defn: In its etymological signification, the science of the stars;
among the ancients, synonymous with astronomy; subsequently, the art
of judging of the influences of the stars upon human affairs, and of
foretelling events by their position and aspects.

Note: Astrology was much in vogue during the Middle Ages, and became
the parent of modern astronomy, as alchemy did of chemistry. It was
divided into two kinds: judicial astrology, which assumed to foretell
the fate and acts of nations and individuals, and natural astrology,
which undertook to predict events of inanimate nature, such as
changes of the weather, etc.

ASTROMANTIC
As`tro*man"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to divination by means of the stars;
astrologic. [R.] Dr. H. More.

ASTROMETEOROLOGY
As`tro*me`te*or*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Astro- + meteorology.]

Defn: The investigation of the relation between the sun, moon, and
stars, and the weather.
 -- As`*tro*me`te*or`o*log"ic*al, a.
 -- As`tro*me`te*or*ol"o*gist, n.

ASTROMETER
As*trom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Astro- + meter.]

Defn: An instrument for comparing the relative amount of the light of
stars.

ASTROMETRY
As*trom"e*try, n. Etym: [Astro- + metry.]

Defn: The art of making measurements among the stars, or of
determining their relative magnitudes.

ASTRONOMER
As*tron"o*mer, n. Etym: [See Astronomy.]

1. An astrologer. [Obs.] Shak.

2. One who is versed in astronomy; one who has a knowledge of the
laws of the heavenly orbs, or the principles by which their motions
are regulated, with their various phenomena.
An undevout astronomer is mad. Young.

ASTRONOMIAN
As`tro*no"mi*an, n. Etym: [OE. & OF. astronomien. See Astronomy.]

Defn: An astrologer. [Obs.]

ASTRONOMIC
As`tro*nom"ic, a.

Defn: Astronomical.

ASTRONOMICAL
As`tro*nom"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. astronomicus, Gr. astronomique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to astronomy; in accordance with the methods
or principles of astronomy.
 -- As`tro*nom"ic*al*ly, adv. Astronomical clock. See under Clock.
 -- Astronomical day. See under Day.
 -- Astronomical fractions, Astronomical numbers. See under
Sexagesimal.

ASTRONOMIZE
As*tron"o*mize, v. i. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To study or to talk astronomy. [R.]
They astronomized in caves. Sir T. Browne.

ASTRONOMY
As*tron"o*my, n. Etym: [OE. astronomie, F. astronomie, L. astronomia,
fr. Gr. Star, and Nomad.]

1. Astrology. [Obs.]
Not from the stars do I my judgment pluck; And yet methinks I have
astronomy. Shak.

2. The science which treats of the celestial bodies, of their
magnitudes, motions, distances, periods of revolution, eclipses,
constitution, physical condition, and of the causes of their various
phenomena.

3. A treatise on, or text-book of, the science. Physical astronomy.
See under Physical.

ASTROPHEL
As"tro*phel, n.

Defn: See Astrofel. [Obs.]

ASTROPHOTOGRAPHY
As`tro*pho*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Astro- + photography.]

Defn: The application of photography to the delineation of the sun,
moon, and stars.

ASTROPHOTOMETER
As`tro*pho*tom"e*ter, n. [Pref. astro- + photometer.] (Astron.)

Defn: A photometer for measuring the brightness of stars.

ASTROPHOTOMETRY
As`tro*pho*tom"e*try, n. (Astron.)

Defn: The determination of the brightness of stars, and also of the
sun, moon, and planets. --As`tro*pho`to*met"ric*al (#), a.

ASTROPHYSICAL
As`tro*phys"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the physics of astronomical science.

ASTROPHYSICS
As`tro*phys"ics, n.  [Astro-+ physics.] (Astron.)

Defn: The science treating of the physical characteristics of the
stars and other heavenly bodies, their chemical constitution, light,
heat, atmospheres, etc.

 Its observations are made with the spectroscope, bolometer, etc.,
usually in connection with the telescope.

ASTROPHYTON
As*troph"y*ton, n. Etym: [Astro- + Gr. fyton a plant.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ophiurans having the arms much branched.

ASTROSCOPE
As"tro*scope, n. Etym: [Astro- + scope.]

Defn: An old astronomical instrument, formed of two cones, on whose
surface the constellations were delineated.

ASTROSCOPY
As*tros"co*py, n.

Defn: Observation of the stars. [Obs.]

ASTROTHEOLOGY
As`tro*the*ol"*o*gy, n. Etym: [Astro- + theology.]

Defn: Theology founded on observation or knowledge of the celestial
bodies. Derham.

ASTRUCTIVE
A*struc"tive, a. Etym: [L. astructus, p. p. of astruere to build up;
ad + struere to build.]

Defn: Building up; constructive; -- opposed to destructive. [Obs.]

ASTRUT
A*strut", a. & adv.

1. Sticking out, or puffed out; swelling; in a swelling manner.
[Archaic]
Inflated and astrut with self-conceit. Cowper.

2. In a strutting manner; with a strutting gait.

ASTUCIOUS
As*tu"cious, a. Etym: [F. astucieux. See Astute.]

Defn: Subtle; cunning; astute. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
 -- As*tu"cious*ly, adv. [R.]

ASTUCITY
As*tu"ci*ty, n. Etym: [See Astucious.]

Defn: Craftiness; astuteness. [R.] Carlyle.

ASTUN
A*stun", v. t. Etym: [See Astony, Stun.]

Defn: To stun. [Obs.] "Breathless and astunned." Somerville.

ASTURIAN
As*tu"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Asturias in Spain.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Asturias.

ASTUTE
As*tute", a. Etym: [L. astutus, fr. astus craft, cunning; perh.
cognate with E. acute.]

Defn: Critically discerning; sagacious; shrewd; subtle; crafty.

Syn.
 -- Keen; eagle-eyed; penetrating; skilled; discriminating; cunning;
sagacious; subtle; wily; crafty. As*tute"ly, adv.
 -- As*tute"ness, n.

ASTYLAR
A*sty"lar, a. Etym: [Gr. (arch.)

Defn: Without columns or pilasters. Weale.

ASTYLLEN
A*styl"len, n. (Mining)

Defn: A small dam to prevent free passage of water in an adit or
level.

ASUNDER
A*sun"der, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + sunder.]

Defn: Apart; separate from each other; into parts; in two;
separately; into or in different pieces or places.
I took my staff, even Beauty, and cut it asunder. Zech. xi. 10.
As wide asunder as pole and pole. Froude.

ASURA
A*su"ra, n. (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: An enemy of the gods, esp. one of a race of demons and giants.

ASWAIL
As"wail, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sloth bear (Melursus labiatus) of India.

ASWEVE
A*sweve", v. t. Etym: [AS. aswebban; a + swebban. See Sweven.]

Defn: To stupefy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ASWING
A*swing", adv.

Defn: In a state of swinging.

ASWOON
A*swoon", adv.

Defn: In a swoon. Chaucer.

ASWOONED
A*swooned", adv.

Defn: In a swoon.

ASYLUM
A*sy"lum, n.; pl. E. Asylums, L. Asyla. Etym: [L. asylum, Gr.

1. A sanctuary or place of refuge and protection, where criminals and
debtors found shelter, and from which they could not be forcibly
taken without sacrilege.
So sacred was the church to some, that it had the right of an asylum
or sanctuary. Ayliffe.

Note: The name was anciently given to temples, altars, statues of the
gods, and the like. In later times Christian churches were regarded
as asylums in the same sense.

2. Any place of retreat and security.
Earth has no other asylum for them than its own cold bosom. Southey.

3. An institution for the protection or relief of some class of
destitute, unfortunate, or afflicted persons; as, an asylum for the
aged, for the blind, or for the insane; a lunatic asylum; an orphan
asylum.

ASYMMETRAL
A*sym"me*tral, a.

Defn: Incommensurable; also, unsymmetrical. [Obs.] D. H. More.

ASYMMETRIC; ASYMMETRICAL
As`ym*met"ric, As`ym*met"ri*cal, a. Etym: [See Asymmetrous.]

1. Incommensurable. [Obs.]

2. Not symmetrical; wanting proportion; esp., not bilaterally
symmetrical. Huxley.

ASYMMETROUS
A*sym"me*trous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Asymmetrical. [Obs.] Barrow.

ASYMMETRY
A*sym"me*try, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. Want of symmetry, or proportion between the parts of a thing, esp.
want of bilateral symmetry.

2. (Math.)

Defn: Incommensurability. [Obs.] Barrow.

ASYMPTOTE
As"ymp*tote, n. Etym: [Gr. Symptom.] (Math.)

Defn: A line which approaches nearer to some curve than assignable
distance, but, though infinitely extended, would never meet it.
Asymptotes may be straight lines or curves. A rectilinear asymptote
may be conceived as a tangent to the curve at an infinite distance.

ASYNARTETE
A*syn"ar*tete`, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Disconnected; not fitted or adjusted.
 -- A*syn"ar*tet"ic, a. Asynartete verse (Pros.), a verse of two
members, having different rhythms; as when the first consists of
iambuses and the second of trochees.

ASYNCHRONOUS
A*syn"chro*nous, a. [Gr.  not + synchronous.]

Defn: Not simultaneous; not concurrent in time; --opposed to
synchronous.

ASYNDETIC
As`yn*det"ic, a. Etym: [See Asyndeton.]

Defn: Characterized by the use of asyndeton; not connected by
conjunctions.
 -- As`yn*det"ic*al*ly, adv.

ASYNDETON
A*syn"de*ton, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure which omits the connective; as, I came, I saw, I
conquered. It stands opposed to polysyndeton.

ASYSTOLE
A*sys"to*le, n. Etym: [Pref. a- not + systole.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A weakening or cessation of the contractile power of the heart.

ASYSTOLISM
A*sys"to*lism, n.

Defn: The state or symptoms characteristic of asystole.

AT
At, prep. Etym: [AS. æt; akin to OHG. az, Goth., OS., & Icel. at, Sw.
åt, Dan. & L. ad.]

Defn: Primarily, this word expresses the relations of presence,
nearness in place or time, or direction toward; as, at the ninth
hour; at the house; to aim at a mark. It is less definite than in or
on; at the house may be in or near the house. From this original
import are derived all the various uses of at. It expresses: -

1. A relation of proximity to, or of presence in or on, something;
as, at the door; at your shop; at home; at school; at hand; at sea
and on land.

2. The relation of some state or condition; as, at war; at peace; at
ease; at your service; at fault; at liberty; at risk; at
disadvantage.

3. The relation of some employment or action; occupied with; as, at
engraving; at husbandry; at play; at work; at meat (eating); except
at puns.

4. The relation of a point or position in a series, or of degree,
rate, or value; as, with the thermometer at 80º; goods sold at a
cheap price; a country estimated at 10,000 square miles; life is
short at the longest.

5. The relations of time, age, or order; as, at ten o'clock; at
twenty-one; at once; at first.

6. The relations of source, occasion, reason, consequence, or effect;
as, at the sight; at this news; merry at anything; at this
declaration; at his command; to demand, require, receive, deserve,
endure at your hands.

7. Relation of direction toward an object or end; as, look at it; to
point at one; to aim at a mark; to throw, strike, shoot, wink, mock,
laugh at any one. At all, At home, At large, At last, At length, At
once, etc. See under All, Home, Large, Last (phrase and syn.),
Length, Once, etc.
 -- At it, busily or actively engaged.
 -- At least. See Least and However.
 -- At one. See At one, in the Vocabulary.

Syn.
 -- In, At. When reference to the interior of any place is made
prominent in is used. It is used before the names of countries and
cities (esp. large cities); as, we live in America, in New York, in
the South. At is commonly employed before names of houses,
institutions, villages, and small places; as, Milton was educated at
Christ's College; money taken in at the Customhouse; I saw him at the
jeweler's; we live at Beachville. At may be used before the name of a
city when it is regarded as a mere point of locality. "An English
king was crowned at Paris." Macaulay. "Jean Jacques Rousseau was born
at Geneva, June, 28, 1712." J. Morley. In regard to time, we say at
the hour, on the day, in the year; as, at 9 o'clock, on the morning
of July 5th, in the year 1775.

ATABAL
At"a*bal, n. Etym: [Sp. atabal, fr. Ar. at-tabl the drum, tabala to
beat the drum. Cf. Tymbal.]

Defn: A kettledrum; a kind of tabor, used by the Moors. Croly.

ATACAMITE
A*tac"a*mite, n. Etym: [From the desert of Atacama, where found.]
(Min.)

Defn: An oxychloride of copper, usually in emerald-green prismatic
crystals.

ATAFTER
At`aft"er, prep.

Defn: After. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATAGHAN
At"a*ghan, n.

Defn: See Yataghan.

ATAKE
A*take", v. t.

Defn: To overtake. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATAMAN
At"a*man, n. Etym: [Russ. ataman': cf. Pol. hetman, G. hauptmann
headman, chieftain. Cf. Hetman.]

Defn: A hetman, or chief of the Cossacks.

ATAMASCO LILY
At`a*mas"co lil"y. [Atamasco is fr. North American Indian.] (Bot.)

Defn: See under Lily.

ATARAXIA; ATARAXY
At`a*rax"i*a, At"a*rax`y, n. Etym: [NL. ataraxia, Gr.

Defn: Perfect peace of mind, or calmness.

ATAUNT; ATAUNTO
A*taunt", A*taunt"o, adv. Etym: [F. autant as much (as possible).]
(Naut.)

Defn: Fully rigged, as a vessel; with all sails set; set on end or
set right.

ATAVIC
A*tav"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. atavique.]

Defn: Pertaining to a remote ancestor, or to atavism.

ATAVISM
At"a*vism, n. Etym: [L. atavus an ancestor, fr. avus a grandfather.]
(a) The recurrence, or a tendency to a recurrence, of the original
type of a species in the progeny of its varieties; resemblance to
remote rather than to near ancestors; reversion to the original form.
(b) (Biol.) The recurrence of any peculiarity or disease of an
ancestor in a subsequent generation, after an intermission for a
generation or two.
Now and then there occur cases of what physiologists call atavism, or
reversion to an ancestral type of character. J. Fiske

ATAXIA; ATAXY
A*tax"i*a, At"ax*y, n. Etym: [NL. ataxia, Gr. ataxie.]

1. Disorder; irregularity. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

2. (Med.)
(a) Irregularity in disease, or in the functions.
(b) The state of disorder that characterizes nervous fevers and the
nervous condition. Locomotor ataxia. See Locomotor.

ATAXIC
A*tax"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ataxique. See Ataxia.] (Med.)

Defn: Characterized by ataxy, that is, (a) by great irregularity of
functions or symptoms, or (b) by a want of coordinating power in
movements. Ataxic fever, malignant typhus fever. Pinel.

ATAZIR
At`a*zir", n. Etym: [OF., fr. Ar. al-tasir influence.] (Astron.)

Defn: The influence of a star upon other stars or upon men. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

ATE
Ate,

Defn: the preterit of Eat.

ATE
A"te, n. Etym: [Gr. (Greek. Myth.)

Defn: The goddess of mischievous folly; also, in later poets, the
goddess of vengeance.

-ATE
-ate. Etym: [From the L. suffix -atus, the past participle ending of
verbs of the 1st conj.]

1. As an ending of participles or participial adjectives it is
equivalent to -ed; as, situate or situated; animate or animated.

2. As the ending of a verb, it means to make, to cause, to act, etc.;
as, to propitiate (to make propitious); to animate (to give life to).

3. As a noun suffix, it marks the agent; as, curate, delegate. It
also sometimes marks the office or dignity; as, tribunate.

4. In chemistry it is used to denote the salts formed from those
acids whose names end -ic (excepting binary or halogen acids); as,
sulphate from sulphuric acid, nitrate from nitric acid, etc. It is
also used in the case of certain basic salts.

ATECHNIC
A*tech"nic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + technic.]

Defn: Without technical or artistic knowledge.
Difficult to convey to the atechnic reader. Etching & Engr.

ATELES
At"e*les, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of American monkeys with prehensile tails, and having
the thumb wanting or rudimentary. See Spider monkey, and Coaita.

ATELETS SAUCE; SAUCE AUX HATELETS
A`te*lets" sauce or  Sauce` aux ha`te*lets". [F. hâtelet skewer.]

Defn: A sauce (such as egg and bread crumbs) used for covering bits
of meat, small birds, or fish, strung on skewers for frying.

ATELIER
A`te*lier" n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A workshop; a studio.

ATELLAN
A*tel"lan, a. Etym: [L. Atellanus, fr. Atella, an ancient town of the
Osci, in Campania.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Atella, in ancient Italy; as, Atellan
plays; farcical; ribald.
 -- n.

Defn: A farcical drama performed at Atella.

ATHALAMOUS
A*thal"a*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Not furnished with shields or beds for the spores, as the
thallus of certain lichens.

ATHAMAUNT
Ath"a*maunt, n.

Defn: Adamant. [Obs.]
Written in the table of athamaunt. Chaucer.

ATHANASIA; ATHANASY
Ath`a*na"si*a, A*than"a*sy, n. [NL. athanasia, fr. Gr. ;   priv. +
death.]

Defn: The quality of being deathless; immortality.

Is not a scholiastic athanasy better than none
Lowell.

ATHANASIAN
Ath`a*na"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Athanasius, bishop of Alexandria in the 4th
century. Athanasian creed, a formulary, confession, or exposition of
faith, formerly supposed to have been drawn up by Athanasius; but
this opinion is now rejected, and the composition is ascribed by some
to Hilary, bishop of Arles (5th century). It is a summary of what was
called the orthodox faith.

ATHANOR
Ath"a*nor, n. Etym: [F., fr. Ar. at-tannur, fr. Heb. tannur an oven
or furnace.]

Defn: A digesting furnace, formerly used by alchemists. It was so
constructed as to maintain uniform and durable heat. Chambers.

ATHECATA
Ath`e*ca"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Hydroidea in which the zooids are naked, or not
inclosed in a capsule. See Tubularian.

ATHEISM
A"the*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. athéisme. See Atheist.]

1. The disbelief or denial of the existence of a God, or supreme
intelligent Being.
Atheism is a ferocious system, that leaves nothing above us to excite
awe, nor around us to awaken tenderness. R. Hall.
Atheism and pantheism are often wrongly confounded. Shipley.

2. Godlessness.

ATHEIST
A"the*ist, n. Etym: [Gr. athéiste.]

1. One who disbelieves or denies the existence of a God, or supreme
intelligent Being.

2. A godless person. [Obs.]

Syn.
 -- Infidel; unbeliever.

Note: See Infidel.

ATHEISTIC; ATHEISTICAL
A`the*is"tic, A`the*is"tic*al, a.

1. Pertaining to, implying, or containing, atheism; -- applied to
things; as, atheistic doctrines, opinions, or books.
Atheistical explications of natural effects. Barrow.

2. Disbelieving the existence of a God; impious; godless; -- applied
to persons; as, an atheistic writer.
 -- A`the*is"tic*al*ly, adv.
 -- A`the*is"tic*al*ness, n.

ATHEIZE
A"the*ize, v. t.

Defn: To render atheistic or godless. [R.]
They endeavored to atheize one another. Berkeley.

ATHEIZE
A"the*ize, v. i.

Defn: To discourse, argue, or act as an atheist. [R.] -- A"the*i`zer,
n. Cudworth.

ATHELING
Ath"el*ing, n. Etym: [AS. æ noble, fr. æ noble, akin to G. adel
nobility, edel noble. The word æ, E. ethel, is in many AS. proper
names, as Ethelwolf, noble wolf; Ethelbald, noble bold; Ethelbert,
noble bright.]

Defn: An Anglo-Saxon prince or nobleman; esp., the heir apparent or a
prince of the royal family. [Written also Adeling and Ætheling.]

ATHENEUM; ATHENAEUM
Ath`e*ne"um, Ath`e*næ"um, n.; pl. E. Atheneums, L. Athenæa. Etym: [L.
Athenaemum, Gr. Minerva by the Romans), the tutelary goddess of
Athens.]

1 (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A temple of Athene, at Athens, in which scholars and poets were
accustomed to read their works and instruct students.

2. A school founded at Rome by Hadrian.

3. A literary or scientific association or club.

4. A building or an apartment where a library, periodicals, and
newspapers are kept for use.

ATHENIAN
A*the"ni*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. Athénien.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Athens, the metropolis of Greece.
 -- n. A native or citizen of Athens.

ATHEOLOGICAL
A`the*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Opposed to theology; atheistic. Bp. Montagu.

ATHEOLOGY
A`the*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Pref. a- not + theology.]

Defn: Antagonism to theology. Swift.

ATHEOUS
A"the*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. Atheist.]

1. Atheistic; impious. [Obs.] Milton.

2. Without God, neither accepting nor denying him.
I should say science was atheous, and therefore could not be
atheistic. Bp. of Carlisle.

ATHERINE
Ath"er*ine, n. Etym: [NL. atherina, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small marine fish of the family Atherinidæ, having a silvery
stripe along the sides. The European species (Atherina presbyter) is
used as food. The American species (Menidia notata) is called
silversides and sand smelt. See Silversides.

ATHERMANCY
A*ther"man*cy, n. Etym: [See Athermanous.]

Defn: Inability to transmit radiant; impermeability to heat. Tyndall.

ATHERMANOUS
A*ther"ma*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. athermane.] (Chem.)

Defn: Not transmitting heat; -- opposed to diathermanous.

ATHERMOUS
A*ther"mous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Athermanous.

ATHEROID
Ath"er*oid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Shaped like an ear of grain.

ATHEROMA
Ath`e*ro"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)
(a) An encysted tumor containing curdy matter.
(b) A disease characterized by thickening and fatty degeneration of
the inner coat of the arteries.

ATHEROMATOUS
Ath`e*rom"a*tous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or having the nature of, atheroma. Wiseman.

ATHETIZE
Ath"e*tize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Athetized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Athetizing.] [Gr. , fr.  set aside, not fixed;  not +  to place.]

Defn: To set aside or reject as spurious, as by marking with an
obelus.

ATHETOSIS
Ath`e*to"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A variety of chorea, marked by peculiar tremors of the fingers
and toes.

ATHINK
A*think", v. t.

Defn: To repent; to displease; to disgust. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATHIRST
A*thirst", a. Etym: [OE. ofthurst, AS. ofpyrsted, p. p. of ofpyrstan;
pref. of-, intensive + pyrstan to thirst. See Thirst.]

1. Wanting drink; thirsty.

2. Having a keen appetite or desire; eager; longing. "Athirst for
battle." Cowper.

ATHLETE
Ath"lete, n. Etym: [L. athleta, Gr. wed: cf. F. athlète.]

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: One who contended for a prize in the public games of ancient
Greece or Rome.

2. Any one trained to contend in exercises requiring great physical
agility and strength; one who has great activity and strength; a
champion.

3. One fitted for, or skilled in, intellectual contests; as, athletes
of debate.

ATHLETIC
Ath`let"ic, a. Etym: [L. athleticus, Gr. Athlete.]

1. Of or pertaining to athletes or to the exercises practiced by
them; as, athletic games or sports.

2. Befitting an athlete; strong; muscular; robust; vigorous; as,
athletic Celts. "Athletic soundness." South.
 -- Ath*let"ic*al*ly, adv.

ATHLETICISM
Ath*let"i*cism, n.

Defn: The practice of engaging in athletic games; athletism.

ATHLETICS
Ath*let"ics, n.

Defn: The art of training by athletic exercises; the games and sports
of athletes.

ATHLETISM
Ath"le*tism, n.

Defn: The state or practice of an athlete; the characteristics of an
athlete.

ATHREPSIA
A*threp"si*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  priv. +  nourishment.] (Med.)

Defn: Profound debility of children due to lack of food and to
unhygienic surroundings. --A*threp"tic (#), a.

ATHWART
A*thwart", prep. Etym: [Pref. a- + thwart.]

1. Across; from side to side of.
Athwart the thicket lone. Tennyson.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Across the direction or course of; as, a fleet standing athwart
our course. Athwart hawse, across the stem of another vessel, whether
in contact or at a small distance.
 -- Athwart ships, across the ship from side to side, or in that
direction; -- opposed to fore and aft.

ATHWART
A*thwart", adv.

Defn: 1. Across, especially in an oblique direction; sidewise;
obliquely.
Sometimes athwart, sometimes he strook him straight. Spenser.

2. Across the course; so as to thwart; perversely.
All athwart there came A post from Wales loaden with heavy news.
Shak.

ATILT
A*tilt", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + tilt.]

1. In the manner of a tilter; in the position, or with the action, of
one making a thrust. "To run atilt at men." Hudibras.

2. In the position of a cask tilted, or with one end raised.

Note: [In this sense sometimes used as an adjective.]
Abroach, atilt, and run Even to the lees of honor. Beau. & Fl.

ATIMY
At"i*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: Public disgrace or stigma; infamy; loss of civil rights.
Mitford.

-ATION
-a"tion. Etym: [L. -ationem. See -tion.]

Defn: A suffix forming nouns of action, and often equivalent to the
verbal substantive in -ing. It sometimes has the further meanings of
state, and that which results from the action. Many of these nouns
have verbs in -ate; as, alliterate -ation, narrate -ation; many are
derived through the French; as, alteration, visitation; and many are
formed on verbs ending in the Greek formative -ize (Fr. -ise); as,
civilization, demoralization.

A-TIPTOE
A-tip"toe, adv.

Defn: On tiptoe; eagerly expecting.
We all feel a-tiptoe with hope and confidence. F. Harrison.

ATLANTA
At*lan"ta, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small glassy heteropod mollusks found swimming at
the surface in mid ocean. See Heteropod.

ATLANTAL
At*lan"tal, a. (Anat.)
(a) Relating to the atlas.
(b) Anterior; cephalic. Barclay.

ATLANTEAN
At`lan*te"an, a. Etym: [L. Atlant.]

1. Of or pertaining to the isle Atlantis, which the ancients allege
was sunk, and overwhelmed by the ocean.

2. Pertaining to, or resembling, Atlas; strong.
With Atlantean shoulders, fit to bear The weight of mightiest
monarchies. Milton.

ATLANTES
At*lan"tes, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Atlas.] (Arch.)

Defn: Figures or half figures of men, used as columns to support an
entablature; -- called also telamones. See Caryatides. Oxf. Gloss.

ATLANTIC
At*lan"tic, a. Etym: [L. Atlanticus, fr. Atlas. See Atlas and
Atlantes.]

1. Of or pertaining to Mt. Atlas in Libya, and hence applied to the
ocean which lies between Europe and Africa on the east and America on
the west; as, the Atlantic Ocean (called also the Atlantic); the
Atlantic basin; the Atlantic telegraph.

2. Of or pertaining to the isle of Atlantis.

3. Descended from Atlas.
The seven Atlantic sisters. Milton.

ATLANTIDES
At*lan"ti*des, n. pl. Etym: [L. See Atlantes.]

Defn: The Pleiades or seven stars, fabled to have been the daughters
of Atlas.

ATLAS
At"las, n.; pl. Atlases. Etym: [L. Atlas, -antis, Gr. Atlas, in W.
Africa, regarded as the pillar of heaven. It is from the root of
Tolerate.]

1. One who sustains a great burden.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The first vertebra of the neck, articulating immediately with
the skull, thus sustaining the globe of the head, whence the name.

3. A collection of maps in a volume; --

Note: supposed to be so called from a picture of Atlas supporting the
world, prefixed to some collections. This name is said to have been
first used by Mercator, the celebrated geographer, in the 16th
century.

Note:

4. A volume of plates illustrating any subject.

5. A work in which subjects are exhibited in a tabular from or
arrangement; as, an historical atlas.

6. A large, square folio, resembling a volume of maps; -- called also
atlas folio.

7. A drawing paper of large size. See under Paper, n. Atlas powder, a
nitroglycerin blasting compound of pasty consistency and great
explosive power.

ATLAS
At"las, n. Etym: [Ar., smooth.]

Defn: A rich kind of satin manufactured in India. Brande & C.

ATLAS POWDER
At"las pow"der.

Defn: A blasting powder or dynamite composed of nitroglycerin, wood
fiber, sodium nitrate, and magnesium carbonate.

ATMAN
At"man, n. [Skr. atman.] (Hinduism)
 (a) The life principle, soul, or individual essence.
 (b) The universal ego from whom all individual atmans arise. This
sense is a European excrescence on the East Indian thought.

ATMIATRY
At*mi"a*try, n. [Gr.  vapor +  medical treatment, healing.]

Defn: Treatment of disease by vapors or gases, as by inhalation.

ATMIDOMETER
At`mi*dom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter; cf. F. atmidomètre.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the evaporation from water, ice, or
snow. Brande & C.

ATMO
At"mo, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. atmosphere.] (Physics)

Defn: The standard atmospheric pressure used in certain physical
measurements calculations; conventionally, that pressure under which
the barometer stands at 760 millimeters, at a temperature of 0º
Centigrade, at the level of the sea, and in the latitude of Paris.
Sir W. Thomson.

ATMOLOGIC; ATMOLOGICAL
At`mo*log"ic, At`mo*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to atmology. "Atmological laws of heat."
Whewell.

ATMOLOGIST
At*mol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in atmology.

ATMOLOGY
At*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Physics)

Defn: That branch of science which treats of the laws and phenomena
of aqueous vapor. Whewell.

ATMOLYSIS
At*mol"y*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process of separating mingled gases of unequal
diffusibility by transmission through porous substances.

ATMOLYZATION
At`mol*y*za"tion, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Separation by atmolysis.

ATMOLYZE
At"mo*lyze, v. t. (Chem.)

Defn: To subject to atmolysis; to separate by atmolysis.

ATMOLYZER
At"mo*ly`zer, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An apparatus for effecting atmolysis.

ATMOMETER
At*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. atmomètre.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the rate of evaporation from a
moist surface; an evaporometer. Huxley.

ATMOSPHERE
At"mos*phere, n. Etym: [Gr. atman breath, soul, G. athem breath) +
atmosphère. See Sphere.]

1. (Physics)
(a) The whole mass of aëriform fluid surrounding the earth; --
applied also to the gaseous envelope of any celestial orb, or other
body; as, the atmosphere of Mars.
(b) Any gaseous envelope or medium.
An atmosphere of cold oxygen. Miller.

2. A supposed medium around various bodies; as, electrical
atmosphere, a medium formerly supposed to surround electrical bodies.
Franklin.

3. The pressure or weight of the air at the sea level, on a unit of
surface, or about 14.7 Ibs. to the sq. inch.
Hydrogen was liquefied under a pressure of 650 atmospheres. Lubbock.

4. Any surrounding or pervading influence or condition.
The chillest of social atmospheres. Hawthorne.

5. The portion of air in any locality, or affected by a special
physical or sanitary condition; as, the atmosphere of the room; a
moist or noxious atmosphere.

ATMOSPHERIC; ATMOSPHERICAL
At`mos*pher"ic, At`mos*pher"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. atmosphérique.]

1. Of or pertaining to the atmosphere; of the nature of, or
resembling, the atmosphere; as, atmospheric air; the atmospheric
envelope of the earth.

2. Existing in the atmosphere.
The lower atmospheric current. Darwin.

3. Caused, or operated on, by the atmosphere; as, an atmospheric
effect; an atmospheric engine.

4. Dependent on the atmosphere. [R.]
In am so atmospherical a creature. Pope.
Atmospheric engine, a steam engine whose piston descends by the
pressure of the atmosphere, when the steam which raised it is
condensed within the cylinder. Tomlinson.
 -- Atmospheric line (Steam Engin.), the equilibrium line of an
indicator card. Steam is expanded "down to the atmosphere" when its
pressure is equal to that of the atmosphere. (See Indicator card.) --
Atmospheric pressure, the pressure exerted by the atmosphere, not
merely downwards, but in every direction. In amounts to about 14.7
Ibs. on each square inch.
 -- Atmospheric railway, one in which pneumatic power, obtained from
compressed air or the creation of a vacuum, is the propelling force.
 -- Atmospheric tides. See under Tide.

ATMOSPHERICALLY
At`mos*pher"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In relation to the atmosphere.

ATMOSPHEROLOGY
At`mos*phe*rol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Atmosphere + -logy.]

Defn: The science or a treatise on the atmosphere.

ATOKOUS
At"o*kous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Producing only asexual individuals, as the eggs of certain
annelids.

ATOLE
A*to"le, n. [Mex. Sp.]

Defn: A porridge or gruel of maize meal and water, milk, or the like.
[Sp. Amer.]

ATOLL
A*toll", n. Etym: [The native name in the Indian Ocean.]

Defn: A coral island or islands, consisting of a belt of coral reef,
partly submerged, surrounding a central lagoon or depression; a
lagoon island.

ATOM
At"om, n. Etym: [L. atomus, Gr. atome. See Tome.]

1. (Physics)
(a) An ultimate indivisible particle of matter.
(b) An ultimate particle of matter not necessarily indivisible; a
molecule.
(c) A constituent particle of matter, or a molecule supposed to be
made up of subordinate particles.

Note: These three definitions correspond to different views of the
nature of the ultimate particles of matter. In the case of the last
two, the particles are more correctly called molecules. Dana.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The smallest particle of matter that can enter into
combination; one of the elementary constituents of a molecule.

3. Anything extremely small; a particle; a whit.
There was not an atom of water. Sir J. Ross.

ATOM
At"om, v. t.

Defn: To reduce to atoms. [Obs.] Feltham.

ATOMIC; ATOMICAL
A*tom"ic, A*tom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. atomique.]

1. Of or pertaining to atoms.

2. Extremely minute; tiny. Atomic philosophy, or Doctrine of atoms, a
system which assuming that atoms are endued with gravity and motion
accounted thus for the origin and formation of all things. This
philosophy was first broached by Leucippus, was developed by
Democritus, and afterward improved by Epicurus, and hence is
sometimes denominated the Epicurean philosophy.
 -- Atomic theory, or the Doctrine of definite proportions (Chem.),
teaches that chemical combinations take place between the supposed
ultimate particles or atoms of bodies, in some simple ratio, as of
one to one, two to three, or some other, always expressible in whole
numbers.
 -- Atomic weight (Chem.), the weight of the atom of an element as
compared with the weight of the atom of hydrogen, taken as a
standard.

ATOMICALLY
A*tom"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an atomic manner; in accordance with the atomic philosophy.

ATOMICIAN
At`o*mi"cian, n.

Defn: An atomist. [R.]

ATOMICISM
A*tom"i*cism, n.

Defn: Atomism. [Obs.]

ATOMICITY
At`o*mic"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. atomicité.] (Chem.)

Defn: Degree of atomic attraction; equivalence; valence; also (a
later use) the number of atoms in an elementary molecule. See
Valence.

ATOMISM
At"om*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. atomisme.]

Defn: The doctrine of atoms. See Atomic philosophy, under Atomic.

ATOMIST
At"om*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. atomiste.]

Defn: One who holds to the atomic philosophy or theory. Locke.

ATOMISTIC
At`om*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to atoms; relating to atomism. [R.]
It is the object of the mechanical atomistic philosophy to confound
synthesis with synartesis. Coleridge.

ATOMIZATION
At`om*i*za"tion, n.

1. The act of reducing to atoms, or very minute particles; or the
state of being so reduced.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The reduction of fluids into fine spray.

ATOMIZE
At"om*ize, v. t.

Defn: To reduce to atoms, or to fine spray.
The liquids in the form of spray are said to be pulverized,
nebulized, or atomized. Dunglison.

ATOMIZER
At"om*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, atomizes; esp., an instrument for
reducing a liquid to spray for disinfecting, cooling, or perfuming.

ATOMOLOGY
At`om*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Atom + -logy.]

Defn: The doctrine of atoms. Cudworth.

ATOMY
At"om*y, n.

Defn: An atom; a mite; a pigmy.

ATOMY
At"o*my, n. Etym: [For anatomy, taken as an atomy.]

Defn: A skeleton. [Ludicrous] Shak.

ATONABLE
A*ton"a*ble, a.

Defn: Admitting an atonement; capable of being atoned for; expiable.

AT ONE
At one". Etym: [OE. at on, atone, atoon, attone.]

1. In concord or friendship; in agreement (with each other); as, to
be, bring, make, or set, at one, i. e., to be or bring in or to a
state of agreement or reconciliation.
If gentil men, or othere of hir contree Were wrothe, she wolde
bringen hem atoon. Chaucer.

2. Of the same opinion; agreed; as, on these points we are at one.

3. Together. [Obs.] Spenser.
He and Aufidius can no more atone Than violentest contrariety. Shak.

2. To stand as an equivalent; to make reparation, compensation, or
amends, for an offense or a crime.
The murderer fell, and blood atoned for blood. Pope.
The ministry not atoning for their former conduct by any wise or
popular measure. Junius.

ATONE
A*tone", v. t.

1. To set at one; to reduce to concord; to reconcile, as parties at
variance; to appease. [Obs.]
I would do much To atone them, for the love I bear to Cassio. Shak.

2. To unite in making. [Obs. & R.]
The four elements . . . have atoned A noble league. Ford.

3. To make satisfaction for; to expiate.
Or each atone his guilty love with life. Pope.

ATONEMENT
A*tone"ment, n.

1. (Literally, a setting at one.) Reconciliation; restoration of
friendly relations; agreement; concord. [Archaic]
By whom we have now received the atonement. Rom. v. 11.
He desires to make atonement Betwixt the Duke of Gloucester and your
brothers. Shak.

2. Satisfaction or reparation made by giving an equivalent for an
injury, or by doing of suffering that which will be received in
satisfaction for an offense or injury; expiation; amends; -- with
for. Specifically, in theology: The expiation of sin made by the
obedience, personal suffering, and death of Christ.
When a man has been guilty of any vice, the best atonement be can
make for it is, to warn others. Spectator.
The Phocians behaved with, so much gallantry, that they were thought
to have made a sufficient atonement for their former offense. Potter.

ATONER
A*ton"er, n.

Defn: One who makes atonement.

ATONES
At*ones, adv.

Defn: Etym: [See At one.] [Obs.]
Down he fell atones as a stone. Chaucer.

ATONIC
A*ton"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. atonique. See Atony.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Characterized by atony, or want of vital energy; as, an atonic
disease.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Unaccented; as, an atonic syllable.

3. Destitute of tone vocality; surd. Rush.

ATONIC
A*ton"ic, n.

1. (Gram.)

Defn: A word that has no accent.

2. An element of speech entirely destitute of vocality, or produced
by the breath alone; a nonvocal or surd consonant; a breathing. Rush.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A remedy capable of allaying organic excitement or irritation.
Dunglison.

ATONY
At"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. atonie.] (Med.)

Defn: Want of tone; weakness of the system, or of any organ,
especially of such as are contractile.

ATOP
A*top", adv.

Defn: On or at the top. Milton.

ATRABILARIAN; ATRABILARIOUS
At`ra*bi*la"ri*an, At`ra*bi*la"ri*ous, a. Etym: [LL. atrabilarius,
fr. L. atra bilis black bile: cf. F. atrabilaire, fr. atrabile.]

Defn: Affected with melancholy; atrabilious. Arbuthnot.

ATRABILARIAN
At`ra*bi*la"ri*an, n.

Defn: A person much given to melancholy; a hypochondriac. I.
Disraeli.

ATRABILIAR
At`ra*bil"iar, a.

Defn: Melancholy; atrabilious.

ATRABILIARY
At`ra*bil"ia*ry, a.

1. Of or pertaining to atra bilis or black bile, a fluid formerly
supposed to be produced by the kidneys.

2. Melancholic or hypohondriac; atrabilious; -- from the supposed
predominance of black bile, to the influence of which the ancients
attributed hypochondria, melancholy, and mania. Atrabiliary arteries,
capsules, and veins (Anat.), those pertaining to the kidney; --
called also renal arteries, capsules, and veins.

ATRABILIOUS
At`ra*bil"ious, a.

Defn: Melancholic or hypochondriac; atrabiliary. Dunglision.
A hard-faced, atrabilious, earnest-eyed race. Lowell.
He was constitutionally atrabilious and scornful. Froude.

ATRAMENTACEOUS
At`ra*men*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. atramentum ink, fr. ater black.]

Defn: Black, like ink; inky; atramental. [Obs.] Derham.

ATRAMENTAL; ATRAMENTOUS
At`ra*men"tal, At`ra*men"tous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ink; inky; black, like ink; as, atramental
galls; atramentous spots.

ATRAMENTARIOUS
At`ra*men*ta"ri*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. atramentaire. See
Atramentaceous.]

Defn: Like ink; suitable for making ink. Sulphate of iron (copperas,
green vitriol) is called atramentarious, as being used in making ink.

ATREDE
At*rede, v. t. Etym: [OE. at (AS. æt) out + rede.]

Defn: To surpass in council. [Obs.]
Men may the olde atrenne, but hat atrede. Chaucer.

ATRENNE
At*renne", v. t. Etym: [OE. at + renne to run.]

Defn: To outrun. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATRESIA
A*tre"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Absence or closure of a natural passage or channel of the body;
imperforation.

ATRIAL
A"tri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an atrium.

ATRIP
A*trip", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + trip.] (Naut.)
(a) Just hove clear of the ground; -said of the anchor.
(b) Sheeted home, hoisted taut up and ready for trimming; -- said of
sails.
(c) Hoisted up and ready to be swayed across; -- said of yards.

ATRIUM
A"tri*um, n.; pl. Atria. Etym: [L., the fore court of a Roman house.]

1. (Arch.)
(a) A square hall lighted from above, into which rooms open at one or
more levels.
(b) An open court with a porch or gallery around three or more sides;
especially at the entrance of a basilica or other church. The name
was extended in the Middle Ages to the open churchyard or cemetery.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The main part of either auricle of the heart as distinct from
the auricular appendix. Also, the whole articular portion of the
heart.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cavity in ascidians into which the intestine and generative
ducts open, and which also receives the water from the gills. See
Ascidioidea.

ATROCHA
At`ro*cha, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of chætopod larva in which no circles of cilia are
developed.

ATROCIOUS
A*tro"cious, a. Etym: [L. atrox, atrocis, cruel, fierce: cf. F.
atroce.]

1. Extremely heinous; full of enormous wickedness; as, atrocious
quilt or deeds.

2. Characterized by, or expressing, great atrocity, great atrocity.
Revelations . . . so atrocious that nothing in history approaches
them. De Quincey.

3. Very grievous or violent; terrible; as, atrocious distempers.
[Obs.] Cheyne.

Syn.
 -- Atrocious, Flagitious, Flagrant. Flagitious points to an act as
grossly wicked and vile; as, a flagitious proposal. Flagrant marks
the vivid impression made upon the mind by something strikingly wrong
or erroneous; as, a flagrant misrepresentation; a flagrant violation
of duty. Atrocious represents the act as springing from a violent and
savage spirit. If Lord Chatham, instead of saying "the atrocious
crime of being a young man," had used either of the other two words,
his irony would have lost all its point, in his celebrated reply to
Sir Robert Walpole, as reported by Dr. Johnson.
 -- A*tro"cious*ly, adv.
 -- A*tro"cious*ness, n.

ATROCITY
A*troc"i*ty, n.; pl. Atrocities. Etym: [F. atrocité, L. atrocitas,
fr. atrox, atrocis, cruel.]

1. Enormous wickedness; extreme heinousness or cruelty.

2. An atrocious or extremely cruel deed.
The atrocities which attend a victory. Macaulay.

ATROPHIC
A*troph"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to atrophy.

ATROPHIED
At"ro*phied, p. a.

Defn: Affected with atrophy, as a tissue or organ; arrested in
development at a very early stage; rudimentary.

ATROPHY
At"ro*phy, n. Etym: [L. atrophia, Gr. atrophie.]

Defn: A wasting away from want of nourishment; diminution in bulk or
slow emaciation of the body or of any part. Milton.

ATROPHY
At"ro*phy, v. t. [p. p. Atrophied.]

Defn: To cause to waste away or become abortive; to starve or weaken.

ATROPHY
At"ro*phy, v. i.

Defn: To waste away; to dwindle.

ATROPIA
A*tro"pi*a, n.

Defn: Same as Atropine.

ATROPINE
At"ro*pine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous, white, crystallizable alkaloid, extracted from the
Atropa belladonna, or deadly nightshade, and the Datura Stramonium,
or thorn apple. It is remarkable for its power in dilating the pupil
of the eye. Called also daturine.

ATROPISM
At"ro*pism, n. (Med.)

Defn: A condition of the system produced by long use of belladonna.

ATROPOUS
At"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Not inverted; orthotropous.

ATROUS
A"trous, a. Etym: [L. ater.]

Defn: Coal-black; very black.

ATRYPA
A*try"pa, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A extinct genus of Branchiopoda, very common in Silurian
limestones.

ATTABAL
At"ta*bal, n.

Defn: See Atabal.

ATTACCA
At*tac"ca. Etym: [It., fr. attaccare to tie, bind. See Attach.]
(Mus.)

Defn: Attack at once; -- a direction at the end of a movement to show
that the next is to follow immediately, without any pause.

ATTACH
At*tach", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attached; p. pr. & vb. n. Attaching.]
Etym: [OF. atachier, F. attacher, to tie or fasten: cf. Celt. tac,
tach, nail, E. tack a small nail, tack to fasten. Cf. Attack, and see
Tack.]

1. To bind, fasten, tie, or connect; to make fast or join; as, to
attach one thing to another by a string, by glue, or the like.
The shoulder blade is . . . attached only to the muscles. Paley.
A huge stone to which the cable was attached. Macaulay.

2. To connect; to place so as to belong; to assign by authority; to
appoint; as, an officer is attached to a certain regiment, company,
or ship.

3. To win the heart of; to connect by ties of love or self-interest;
to attract; to fasten or bind by moral influence; -- with to; as,
attached to a friend; attaching others to us by wealth or flattery.
Incapable of attaching a sensible man. Miss Austen.
God . . . by various ties attaches man to man. Cowper.

4. To connect, in a figurative sense; to ascribe or attribute; to
affix; -- with to; as, to attach great importance to a particular
circumstance.
Top this treasure a curse is attached. Bayard Taylor.

5. To take, seize, or lay hold of. [Obs.] Shak.

6. To take by legal authority: (a) To arrest by writ, and bring
before a court, as to answer for a debt, or a contempt; -- applied to
a taking of the person by a civil process; being now rarely used for
the arrest of a criminal. (b) To seize or take (goods or real estate)
by virtue of a writ or precept to hold the same to satisfy a judgment
which may be rendered in the suit. See Attachment, 4.
The earl marshal attached Gloucester for high treason. Miss Yonge.
Attached column (Arch.), a column engaged in a wall, so that only a
part of its circumference projects from it.

Syn.
 -- To affix; bind; tie; fasten; connect; conjoin; subjoin; annex;
append; win; gain over; conciliate.

ATTACH
At*tach", v. i.

1. To adhere; to be attached.
The great interest which attaches to the mere knowledge of these
facts cannot be doubted. Brougham.

2. To come into legal operation in connection with anything; to vest;
as, dower will attach. Cooley.

ATTACH
At*tach", n.

Defn: An attachment. [Obs.] Pope.

ATTACHABLE
At*tach"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being attached; esp., liable to be taken by writ or
precept.

ATTACHE
At`ta*ché", n. Etym: [F., p. p. of attacher. See Attach, v. t.]

Defn: One attached to another person or thing, as a part of a suite
or staff. Specifically: One attached to an embassy.

ATTACHMENT
At*tach"ment, n. Etym: [F. attachment.]

1. The act attaching, or state of being attached; close adherence or
affection; fidelity; regard; anas, an attachment to a friend, or to a
party.

2. That by which one thing is attached to another; connection; as, to
cut the attachments of a muscle.
The human mind . . . has exhausted its forces in the endeavor to rend
the supernatural from its attachment to this history. I. Taylor.

3. Something attached; some adjunct attached to an instrument,
machine, or other object; as, a sewing machine attachment (i. e., a
device attached to a sewing machine to enable it to do special work,
as tucking, etc.).

4. (Giv. Law)
(a) A seizure or taking into custody by virtue of a legal process.
(b) The writ or percept commanding such seizure or taking.

Note: The term is applied to a seizure or taking either of persons or
property. In the serving of process in a civil suit, it is most
generally applied to the taking of property, whether at common law,
as a species of distress, to compel defendant's appearance, or under
local statutes, to satisfy the judgment the plaintiff may recover in
the action. The terms attachment and arrest are both applied to the
taking or apprehension of a defendant to compel an appearance in a
civil action. Attachments are issued at common law and in chancery,
against persons for contempt of court. In England, attachment is
employed in some cases where capias is with us, as against a witness
who fails to appear on summons. In some of the New England States a
writ of attachment is a species of mesne process upon which the
property of a defendant may be seized at the commencement of a suit
and before summons to him, and may be held to satisfy the judgment
the plaintiff may recover. In other States this writ can issue only
against absconding debtors and those who conceal themselves. See
Foreign, Garnishment, Trustee process. Bouvier. Burrill. Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- Attachment, Affection. The leading idea of affection is that of
warmth and tenderness; the leading idea of attachment is that of
being bound to some object by strong and lasting ties. There is more
of sentiment (and sometimes of romance) in affection, and more of
principle in preserving attachment. We speak of the ardor of the one,
and the fidelity of the other. There is another distinction in the
use and application of these words. The term attachment is applied to
a wider range of objects than affection. A man may have a strong
attachment to his country, to his profession, to his principles, and
even to favorite places; in respect to none of these could we use the
word affection.

ATTACK
At*tack", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attacked; p. pr. & vb. n. Attacking.]
Etym: [F. attaquer, orig. another form of attacher to attack: cf. It.
attacare to fasten, attack. See Attach, Tack a small nail.]

1. To fall upon with force; to assail, as with force and arms; to
assault. "Attack their lines." Dryden.

2. To assail with unfriendly speech or writing; to begin a
controversy with; to attempt to overthrow or bring into disrepute, by
criticism or satire; to censure; as, to attack a man, or his
opinions, in a pamphlet.

3. To set to work upon, as upon a task or problem, or some object of
labor or investigation.

4. To begin to affect; to begin to act upon, injuriously or
destructively; to begin to decompose or waste.
On the fourth of March he was attacked by fever. Macaulay.
Hydrofluoric acid . . . attacks the glass. B. Stewart.

Syn.
 -- To Attack, Assail, Assault, Invade. These words all denote a
violent onset; attack being the generic term, and the others specific
forms of attack. To attack is to commence the onset; to assail is to
make a sudden and violent attack, or to make repeated attacks; to
assault (literally, to leap upon) is to attack physically by a had-
to-hand approach or by unlawful and insulting violence; to invade is
to enter by force on what belongs to another. Thus, a person may
attack by offering violence of any kind; he may assail by means of
missile weapons; he may assault by direct personal violence; a king
may invade by marching an army into a country. Figuratively, we may
say, men attack with argument or satire; they assail with abuse or
reproaches; they may be assaulted by severe temptations; the rights
of the people may be invaded by the encroachments of the crown.

ATTACK
At*tack", v. i.

Defn: To make an onset or attack.

ATTACK
At*tack", n. Etym: [Cf. F. attaque.]

1. The act of attacking, or falling on with force or violence; an
onset; an assault; -- opposed to defense.

2. An assault upon one's feelings or reputation with unfriendly or
bitter words.

3. A setting to work upon some task, etc.

4. An access of disease; a fit of sickness.

5. The beginning of corrosive, decomposing, or destructive action, by
a chemical agent.

ATTACKABLE
At*tack"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being attacked.

ATTACKER
At*tack"er, n.

Defn: One who attacks.

ATTAGAS; ATTAGEN
At"ta*gas, At"ta*gen, n. Etym: [L. attagen a kind of bird, Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of sand grouse (Syrrghaptes Pallasii) found in Asia
and rarely in southern Europe.

ATTAGHAN
At"ta*ghan, n.

Defn: See Yataghan.

ATTAIN
At*tain", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attained; p. pr. & vb. n. Attaining.]
Etym: [Of. atteinen, atteignen, , OF. ateindre, ataindre, F.
atteindre, fr. L. attingere; ad + tangere to touch, reach. See
Tangent, and cf. Attinge, Attaint.]

1. To achieve or accomplish, that is, to reach by efforts; to gain;
to compass; as, to attain rest.
Is he wise who hopes to attain the end without the means Abp.
Tillotson.

2. To gain or obtain possession of; to acquire. [Obs. with a material
object.] Chaucer.

3. To get at the knowledge of; to ascertain. [Obs.]
Not well attaining his meaning. Fuller.

4. To reach or come to, by progression or motion; to arrive at.
"Canaan he now attains." Milton.

5. To overtake. [Obs.] Bacon.

6. To reach in excellence or degree; to equal.

Syn.
 -- To Attain, Obtain, Procure. Attain always implies an effort
toward an object. Hence it is not synonymous with obtain and procure,
which do not necessarily imply such effort or motion. We procure or
obtain a thing by purchase or loan, and we obtain by inheritance, but
we do not attain it by such means.

ATTAIN
At*tain", v. i.

1. To come or arrive, by motion, growth, bodily exertion, or efforts
toward a place, object, state, etc.; to reach.
If by any means they might attain to Phenice. Acts xxvii. 12.
Nor nearer might the dogs attain. Sir W. Scott.
To see your trees attain to the dignity of timber. Cowper.
Few boroughs had as yet attained to power such as this. J. R. Green.

2. To come or arrive, by an effort of mind.
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I can not attain
unto it. Ps. cxxxix. 6.

ATTAIN
At*tain", n.

Defn: Attainment. [Obs.]

ATTAINABILITY
At*tain`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being attainable; attainbleness.

ATTAINABLE
At*tain"a*ble, a.

1. Capable of being attained or reached by efforts of the mind or
body; capable of being compassed or accomplished by efforts directed
to the object.
The highest pitch of perfection attainable in this life. Addison.

2. Obtainable. [Obs.]
General Howe would not permit the purchase of those articles [clothes
and blankets] in Philadelphia, and they were not attainable in the
country. Marshall.

ATTAINABLENESS
At*tain"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being attainable; attainability.

ATTAINDER
At*tain"der, n. Etym: [OF. ataindre, ateindre, to accuse, convict.
Attainder is often erroneously referred to F. teindre tie stain. See
Attaint, Attain.]

1. The act of attainting, or the state of being attainted; the
extinction of the civil rights and capacities of a person, consequent
upon sentence of death or outlawry; as, an act of attainder. Abbott.

Note: Formerly attainder was the inseparable consequence of a
judicial or legislative sentence for treason or felony, and involved
the forfeiture of all the real and personal property of the condemned
person, and such "corruption of blood" that he could neither receive
nor transmit by inheritance, nor could he sue or testify in any
court, or claim any legal protection or rights. In England attainders
are now abolished, and in the United States the Constitution provides
that no bill of attainder shall be passed; and no attainder of
treason (in consequence of a judicial sentence) shall work corruption
of blood or forfeiture, except during the life of the person
attainted.

2. A stain or staining; state of being in dishonor or condemnation.
[Obs.]
He lived from all attainder of suspect. Shak.
Bill of attainder, a bill brought into, or passed by, a legislative
body, condemning a person to death or outlawry, and attainder,
without judicial sentence.

ATTAINMENT
At*tain"ment, n.

1. The act of attaining; the act of arriving at or reaching; hence,
the act of obtaining by efforts.
The attainment of every desired object. Sir W. Jones.

2. That which is attained to, or obtained by exertion; acquirement;
acquisition; (pl.), mental acquirements; knowledge; as, literary and
scientific attainments.

ATTAINT
At*taint", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attainted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Attainting.] Etym: [OE. atteynten to convict, fr. atteynt, OF.
ateint, p. p. of ateindre, ataindre. The meanings 3, 4, 5, and 6 were
influenced by a supposed connection with taint. See Attain,
Attainder.]

1. To attain; to get act; to hit. [Obs.]

2. (Old Law)

Defn: To find guilty; to convict; -- said esp. of a jury on trial for
giving a false verdict. [Obs.]
Upon sufficient proof attainted of some open act by men of his own
condition. Blackstone.

3. (Law)

Defn: To subject (a person) to the legal condition formerly resulting
from a sentence of death or outlawry, pronounced in respect of
treason or felony; to affect by attainder.
No person shall be attainted of high treason where corruption of
blood is incurred, but by the oath of two witnesses. Stat. 7 & 8 Wm.
III.

4. To accuse; to charge with a crime or a dishonorable act. [Archaic]

5. To affect or infect, as with physical or mental disease or with
moral contagion; to taint or corrupt.
My tender youth was never yet attaint With any passion of inflaming
love. Shak.

6. To stain; to obscure; to sully; to disgrace; to cloud with infamy.
For so exceeding shone his glistring ray, That Phattaint. Spenser.
Lest she with blame her honor should attaint. Spenser.

ATTAINT
At*taint", p. p.

Defn: Attainted; corrupted. [Obs.] Shak.

ATTAINT
At*taint", n. Etym: [OF. attainte. See Attaint, v.]

1. A touch or hit. Sir W. Scott.

2. (Far.)

Defn: A blow or wound on the leg of a horse, made by overreaching.
White.

3. (Law)

Defn: A writ which lies after judgment, to inquire whether a jury has
given a false verdict in any court of record; also, the convicting of
the jury so tried. Bouvier.

4. A stain or taint; disgrace. See Taint. Shak.

5. An infecting influence. [R.] Shak.

ATTAINTMENT
At*taint"ment, n.

Defn: Attainder; attainture; conviction.

ATTAINTURE
At*tain"ture, n.

Defn: Attainder; disgrace.

ATTAL
At"tal, n.

Defn: Same as Attle.

ATTAME
At*tame", v. t. Etym: [OF. atamer, from Latin. See Attaminate.]

1. To pierce; to attack. [Obs.]

2. To broach; to begin.
And right anon his tale he hath attamed. Chaucer.

ATTAMINATE
At*tam"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. attaminare; ad + root of tangere. See
Contaminate.]

Defn: To corrupt; to defile; to contaminate. [Obs.] Blount.

ATTAR
At"tar, n. Etym: [Per. 'atar perfume, essence, Ar. 'itr, fr. 'atara
to smell sweet. Cf. Otto.]

Defn: A fragrant essential oil; esp., a volatile and highly fragrant
essential oil obtained from the petals of roses. [Also written otto
and ottar.]

ATTASK
At*task", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + task.]

Defn: To take to task; to blame. Shak.

ATTASTE
At*taste, v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + taste.]

Defn: To taste or cause to taste. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATTE
At"te.

Defn: At the. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATTEMPER
At*tem"per, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attempered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Attempering.] Etym: [OF. atemprer, fr. L. attemperare; ad + temperare
to soften, temper. See Temper, and cf. Attemperate.]

1. To reduce, modify, or moderate, by mixture; to temper; to
regulate, as temperature.
If sweet with bitter . . . were not attempered still. Trench.

2. To soften, mollify, or moderate; to soothe; to temper; as, to
attemper rigid justice with clemency.

3. To mix in just proportion; to regulate; as, a mind well attempered
with kindness and justice.

4. To accommodate; to make suitable; to adapt.
Arts . . . attempered to the lyre. Pope.

Note: This word is now not much used, the verb temper taking its
place.

ATTEMPERAMENT
At*tem"per*a*ment, n. Etym: [OF. attemprement.]

Defn: A tempering, or mixing in due proportion.

ATTEMPERANCE
At*tem"per*ance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. atemprance.]

Defn: Temperance; attemperament. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATTEMPERATE
At*tem"per*ate, a. Etym: [L. attemperatus, p. p. of attemperare. See
Attemper.]

Defn: Tempered; proportioned; properly adapted.
Hope must be . . . attemperate to the promise. Hammond.

ATTEMPERATE
At*tem"per*ate, v. t.

Defn: To attemper. [Archaic]

ATTEMPERATION
At*tem`per*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of attempering or regulating. [Archaic] Bacon.

ATTEMPERLY
At*tem"per*ly, adv.

Defn: Temperately. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATTEMPERMENT
At*tem"per*ment, n.

Defn: Attemperament.

ATTEMPT
At*tempt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attempted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Attempting.] Etym: [OF. atenter, also spelt atempter, F. attenter,
fr. L. attentare to attempt; ad + tentare, temptare, to touch, try,
v. intens. of tendere to stretch. See Tempt, and cf. Attend.]

1. To make trial or experiment of; to try; to endeavor to do or
perform (some action); to assay; as, to attempt to sing; to attempt a
bold flight.
Something attempted, something done, Has earned a night's repose.
Longfellow.

2. To try to move, by entreaty, by afflictions, or by temptations; to
tempt. [Obs. or Archaic]
It made the laughter of an afternoon That Vivien should attempt the
blameless king. Thackeray.

3. To try to win, subdue, or overcome; as, one who attempts the
virtue of a woman.
Dear sir, of force I must attempt you further: Take some remembrance
of us, as a tribute. Shak.

4. To attack; to make an effort or attack upon; to try to take by
force; as, to attempt the enemy's camp.
Without attempting his adversary's life. Motley.

Syn.
 -- See Try.

ATTEMPT
At*tempt", v. i.

Defn: To make an attempt; -- with upon. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ATTEMPT
At*tempt", n.

Defn: A essay, trial, or endeavor; an undertaking; an attack, or an
effort to gain a point; esp. an unsuccessful, as contrasted with a
successful, effort.
By his blindness maimed for high attempts. Milton.
Attempt to commit a crime (Law), such an intentional preparatory act
as will apparently result, if not extrinsically hindered, in a crime
which it was designed to effect. Wharton.

Syn.
 -- Attempt, Endeavor, Effort, Exertion, Trial. These words agree in
the idea of calling forth our powers into action. Trial is the
generic term; it denotes a putting forth of one's powers with a view
to determine what they can accomplish; as, to make trial of one's
strength. An attempt is always directed to some definite and specific
object; as, "The attempt, and not the deed, confounds us." Shak. An
endeavor is a continued attempt; as, "His high endeavor and his glad
success." Cowper. Effort is a specific putting forth of strength in
order to carry out an attempt. Exertion is the putting forth or
active exercise of any faculty or power. "It admits of all degrees of
effort and even natural action without effort." C. J. Smith. See Try.

ATTEMPTABLE
At*tempt"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being attempted, tried, or attacked. Shak.

ATTEMPTER
At*tempt"er, n.

1. One who attempts; one who essays anything.

2. An assailant; also, a temper. [Obs.]

ATTEMPTIVE
At*tempt"ive, a.

Defn: Disposed to attempt; adventurous. [Obs.] Daniel.

ATTEND
At*tend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attended; p. pr. & vb. n. Attending.]
Etym: [OE. atenden, OF. atendre, F. attendre, to expect, to wait, fr.
L. attendre to stretch, (sc. animum), to apply the mind to; ad +
tendere to stretch. See Tend.]

1. To direct the attention to; to fix the mind upon; to give heed to;
to regard. [Obs.]
The diligent pilot in a dangerous tempest doth not attend the
unskillful words of the passenger. Sir P. Sidney.

2. To care for; to look after; to take charge of; to watch over.

3. To go or stay with, as a companion, nurse, or servant; to visit
professionally, as a physician; to accompany or follow in order to do
service; to escort; to wait on; to serve.
The fifth had charge sick persons to attend. Spenser.
Attends the emperor in his royal court. Shak.
With a sore heart and a gloomy brow, he prepared to attend William
thither. Macaulay.

4. To be present with; to accompany; to be united or consequent to;
as, a measure attended with ill effects.
What cares must then attend the toiling swain. Dryden.

5. To be present at; as, to attend church, school, a concert, a
business meeting.

6. To wait for; to await; to remain, abide, or be in store for.
[Obs.]
The state that attends all men after this. Locke.
Three days I promised to attend my doom. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To Attend, Mind, Regard, Heed, Notice. Attend is generic, the
rest are specific terms. To mind is to attend so that it may not be
forgotten; to regard is to look on a thing as of importance; to heed
is to ~ to a thing from a principle of caution; to notice is to think
on that which strikes the senses. Crabb. See Accompany.

ATTEND
At*tend", v. i.

1. To apply the mind, or pay attention, with a view to perceive,
understand, or comply; to pay regard; to heed; to listen; -- usually
followed by to.
Attend to the voice of my supplications. Ps. lxxxvi. 6.
Man can not at the same time attend to two objects. Jer. Taylor.

2. To accompany or be present or near at hand, in pursuance of duty;
to be ready for service; to wait or be in waiting; -- often followed
by on or upon.
He was required to attend upon the committee. Clarendon.

3. (with to) To take charge of; to look after; as, to attend to a
matter of business.

4. To wait; to stay; to delay. [Obs.]
For this perfection she must yet attend, Till to her Maker she
espoused be. Sir J. Davies.

Syn.
 -- To Attend, Listen, Hearken. We attend with a view to hear and
learn; we listen with fixed attention, in order to hear correctly, or
to consider what has been said; we hearken when we listen with a
willing mind, and in reference to obeying.

ATTENDANCE
At*tend"ance, n. Etym: [OE. attendance, OF. atendance, fr. atendre,
F. attendre. See Attend, v. t.]

1. Attention; regard; careful application. [Obs.]
Till I come, give attendance to reading. 1 Tim. iv. 13.

2. The act of attending; state of being in waiting; service;
ministry; the fact of being present; presence.
Constant attendance at church three times a day. Fielding.

3. Waiting for; expectation. [Obs.]
Languishing attendance and expectation of death. Hooker.

4. The persons attending; a retinue; attendants.
If your stray attendance by yet lodged. Milton.

ATTENDANCY
At*tend"an*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of attending or accompanying; attendance; an
attendant. [Obs.]

ATTENDANT
At*tend"ant, a. Etym: [F. attendant, p. pr. of attendre. See Attend,
v. t.]

1. Being present, or in the train; accompanying; in waiting.
From the attendant flotilla rang notes triumph. Sir W. Scott.
Cherub and Seraph . . . attendant on their Lord. Milton.

2. Accompanying, connected with, or immediately following, as
consequential; consequent; as, intemperance with all its attendant
evils.
The natural melancholy attendant upon his situation added to the
gloom of the owner of the mansion. Sir W. Scott.

3. (Law)

Defn: Depending on, or owing duty or service to; as, the widow
attendant to the heir. Cowell. Attendant keys (Mus.), the keys or
scales most nearly related to, or having most in common with, the
principal key; those, namely, of its fifth above, or dominant, its
fifth below (fourth above), or subdominant, and its relative minor or
major.

ATTENDANT
At*tend"ant, n.

1. One who attends or accompanies in any character whatever, as a
friend, companion, servant, agent, or suitor. "A train of
attendants." Hallam.

2. One who is present and takes part in the proceedings; as, an
attendant at a meeting.

3. That which accompanies; a concomitant.
[A] sense of fame, the attendant of noble spirits. Pope.

4. (Law)

Defn: One who owes duty or service to, or depends on, another.
Cowell.

ATTENDEMENT
At*tend"e*ment, n.

Defn: Intent. [Obs.] Spenser.

ATTENDER
At*tend"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, attends.

ATTENDMENT
At*tend"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. atendement.]

Defn: An attendant circumstance. [Obs.]
The uncomfortable attendments of hell. Sir T. Browne.

ATTENT
At*tent", a. Etym: [L. attentus, p. p. of attendere. See Attend, v.
t.]

Defn: Attentive; heedful. [Archaic]
Let thine ears be attent unto the prayer. 2 Chron. vi. 40.

ATTENT
At*tent", n.

Defn: Attention; heed. [Obs.] Spenser.

ATTENTATE; ATTENTAT
At*ten"tate, At*ten"tat, n. Etym: [L. attentatum, pl. attentata, fr.
attentare to attempt: cf. F. attentat criminal attempt. See Attempt.]

1. An attempt; an assault. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. (Law)
(a) A proceeding in a court of judicature, after an inhibition is
decreed.
(b) Any step wrongly innovated or attempted in a suit by an inferior
judge.

ATTENTION
At*ten"tion, n. Etym: [L. attentio: cf. F. attention.]

1. The act or state of attending or heeding; the application of the
mind to any object of sense, representation, or thought; notice;
exclusive or special consideration; earnest consideration, thought,
or regard; obedient or affectionate heed; the supposed power or
faculty of attending.
They say the tongues of dying men Enforce attention like deep
harmony. Shak.

Note: Attention is consciousness and something more. It is
consciousness voluntarily applied, under its law of limitations, to
some determinate object; it is consciousness concentrated. Sir W.
Hamilton.

2. An act of civility or courtesy; care for the comfort and pleasure
of others; as, attentions paid to a stranger. To pay attention to, To
pay one's attentions to, to be courteous or attentive to; to wait
upon as a lover; to court.

Syn.
 -- Care; heed; study; consideration; application; advertence;
respect; regard.

ATTENTIVE
At*ten"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. attentif.]

1. Heedful; intent; observant; regarding with care or attention.

Note: Attentive is applied to the senses of hearing and seeing, as,
an attentive ear or eye; to the application of the mind, as in
contemplation; or to the application of the mind, in every possible
sense, as when a person is attentive to the words, and to the manner
and matter, of a speaker at the same time.

2. Heedful of the comfort of others; courteous.

Syn.
 -- Heedful; intent; observant; mindful; regardful; circumspect;
watchful.
 -- At*ten"tive*ly, adv.
 -- At*ten"tive*ness, n.

ATTENTLY
At*tent"ly, adv.

Defn: Attentively. [Obs.] Barrow.

ATTENUANT
At*ten"u*ant, a. Etym: [L. attenuans, p. pr. of attenuare: cf. F.
atténuant. See Attenuate.]

Defn: Making thin, as fluids; diluting; rendering less dense and
viscid; diluent.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine that thins or dilutes the fluids; a diluent.

ATTENUATE
At*ten"u*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attenuated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Attenuating.] Etym: [L. attenuatus, p. p. of attenuare; ad + tenuare
to make thin, tenuis thin. See Thin.]

1. To make thin or slender, as by mechanical or chemical action upon
inanimate objects, or by the effects of starvation, disease, etc.,
upon living bodies.

2. To make thin or less consistent; to render less viscid or dense;
to rarefy. Specifically: To subtilize, as the humors of the body, or
to break them into finer parts.

3. To lessen the amount, force, or value of; to make less complex; to
weaken.
To undersell our rivals . . . has led the manufacturer to . . .
attenuate his processes, in the allotment of tasks, to an extreme
point. I. Taylor.
We may reject and reject till we attenuate history into sapless
meagerness. Sir F. Palgrave.

ATTENUATE
At*ten"u*ate, v. i.

Defn: To become thin, slender, or fine; to grow less; to lessen.
The attention attenuates as its sphere contracts. Coleridge.

ATTENUATE; ATTENUATED
At*ten"u*ate, At*ten"u*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. attenuatus, p. p.]

1. Made thin or slender.

2. Made thin or less viscid; rarefied. Bacon.

ATTENUATION
At*ten`u*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. attenuatio: cf. F. atténuation.]

1. The act or process of making slender, or the state of being
slender; emaciation.

2. The act of attenuating; the act of making thin or less dense, or
of rarefying, as fluids or gases.

3. The process of weakening in intensity; diminution of virulence;
as, the attenuation of virus.

ATTER
At"ter, n. Etym: [AS. ætter.]

Defn: Poison; venom; corrupt matter from a sore. [Obs.] Holland.

ATTERCOP
At"ter*cop, n. Etym: [AS. attercoppa a spider; ætter poison + coppa
head, cup.]

1. A spider. [Obs.]

2. A peevish, ill-natured person. [North of Eng.]

ATTERRATE
At*ter*rate, v. t. Etym: [It. atterrare (cf. LL. atterrare to cast to
earth); L. ad + terra earth, land.]

Defn: To fill up with alluvial earth. [Obs.] Ray.

ATTERRATION
At`ter*ra"tion, n.

Defn: The act of filling up with earth, or of forming land with
alluvial earth. [Obs.]

ATTEST
At"test", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attested; p. pr. & vb. n. Attesting.]
Etym: [L. attestari; ad + testari to bear witness: cf. F. attester.]

1. To bear witness to; to certify; to affirm to be true or genuine;
as, to attest the truth of a writing, a copy of record.
Facts . . . attested by particular pagan authors. Addison.

2. To give proof of; to manifest; as, the ruins of Palmyra attest its
ancient magnificence.

3. To call to witness; to invoke. [Archaic]
The sacred streams which Heaven's imperial state Attests in oaths,
and fears to violate. Dryden.

ATTEST
At*test", n.

Defn: Witness; testimony; attestation. [R.]
The attest of eyes and ears. Shak.

ATTESTATION
At`tes*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. attestatio: cf. F. attestation.]

Defn: The act of attesting; testimony; witness; a solemn or official
declaration, verbal or written, in support of a fact; evidence. The
truth appears from the attestation of witnesses, or of the proper
officer. The subscription of a name to a writing as a witness, is an
attestation.

ATTESTATIVE
At*test"a*tive, a.

Defn: Of the nature of attestation.

ATTESTER; ATTESTOR
At*test"er, At*test"or, n.

Defn: One who attests.

ATTESTIVE
At*test"ive, a.

Defn: Attesting; furnishing evidence.

ATTIC
At"tic, a. Etym: [L. Atticus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Attica, in Greece, or to Athens, its
principal city; marked by such qualities as were characteristic of
the Athenians; classical; refined. Attic base (Arch.), a peculiar
form of molded base for a column or pilaster, described by Vitruvius,
applied under the Roman Empire to the Ionic and Corinthian and "Roman
Doric" orders, and imitated by the architects of the Renaissance.
 -- Attic faith, inviolable faith.
 -- Attic purity, special purity of language.
 -- Attic salt, Attic wit, a poignant, delicate wit, peculiar to the
Athenians.
 -- Attic story. See Attic, n.
 -- Attic style, a style pure and elegant.

ATTIC
At"tic, n. Etym: [In sense (a) from F. attique, orig. meaning Attic.
See Attic, a.]

1. (Arch.)
(a) A low story above the main order or orders of a facade, in the
classical styles; -- a term introduced in the 17th century. Hence:
(b) A room or rooms behind that part of the exterior; all the rooms
immediately below the roof.

2. An Athenian; an Athenian author.

ATTICAL
At"tic*al, a.

Defn: Attic. [Obs.] Hammond.

ATTICISM
At"ti*cism, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A favoring of, or attachment to, the Athenians.

2. The style and idiom of the Greek language, used by the Athenians;
a concise and elegant expression.

ATTICIZE
At"ti*cize, v. t. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To conform or make conformable to the language, customs, etc.,
of Attica.

ATTICIZE
At"ti*cize, v. i.

1. To side with the Athenians.

2. To use the Attic idiom or style; to conform to the customs or
modes of thought of the Athenians.

ATTIGUOUS
At*tig"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. attiguus, fr. attingere to touch. See
Attain.]

Defn: Touching; bordering; contiguous. [Obs.] -- At*tig"u*ous*ness,
n. [Obs.]

ATTINGE
At*tinge", v. t. Etym: [L. attingere to touch. See Attain.]

Defn: To touch lightly. [Obs.] Coles.

ATTIRE
At*tire", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attired; p. pr. & vb. n. Attiring.]
Etym: [OE. atiren to array, dispose, arrange, OF. atirier; à (L. ad)
+ F. tire rank, order, row; of Ger. origin: cf. As. tier row, OHG.
ziari, G. zier, ornament, zieren to adorn. Cf. Tire a headdress.]

Defn: To dress; to array; to adorn; esp., to clothe with elegant or
splendid garments.
Finely attired in a robe of white. Shak.
With the linen miter shall he be attired. Lev. xvi. 4.

ATTIRE
At*tire", n.

1. Dress; clothes; headdress; anything which dresses or adorns; esp.,
ornamental clothing.
Earth in her rich attire. Milton.
I 'll put myself in poor and mean attire. Shak.
Can a maid forget her ornament, or a bride her attire Jer. ii. 32.

2. The antlers, or antlers and scalp, of a stag or buck.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The internal parts of a flower, included within the calyx and
the corolla. [Obs.] Johnson.

ATTIRED
At*tired", p. p. (Her.)

Defn: Provided with antlers, as a stag.

ATTIREMENT
At*tire"ment, n.

Defn: Attire; adornment.

ATTIRER
At*tir"er, n.

Defn: One who attires.

ATTITUDE
At"ti*tude, n. Etym: [It. attitudine, LL. aptitudo, fr. L. aptus
suited, fitted: cf. F. attitude. Cf. Aptitude.]

1. (Paint. & Sculp.)

Defn: The posture, action, or disposition of a figure or a statue.

2. The posture or position of a person or an animal, or the manner in
which the parts of his body are disposed; position assumed or studied
to serve a purpose; as, a threatening attitude; an attitude of
entreaty.

3. Fig.: Position as indicating action, feeling, or mood; as, in
times of trouble let a nation preserve a firm attitude; one's mental
attitude in respect to religion.
The attitude of the country was rapidly changing. J. R. Green.
To strike an attitude, to take an attitude for mere effect.

Syn.
 -- Attitude, Posture. Both of these words describe the visible
disposition of the limbs. Posture relates to their position merely;
attitude refers to their fitness for some specific object. The object
of an attitude is to set forth exhibit some internal feeling; as,
attitude of wonder, of admiration, of grief, etc. It is, therefore,
essentially and designedly expressive. Its object is the same with
that of gesture; viz., to hold forth and represent. Posture has no
such design. If we speak of posture in prayer, or the posture of
devotion, it is only the natural disposition of the limbs, without
any intention to show forth or exhibit.
'T is business of a painter in his choice of attitudes (posituræ) to
foresee the effect and harmony of the lights and shadows. Dryden.
Never to keep the body in the same posture half an hour at a time.
Bacon.

ATTITUDINAL
At`ti*tu"di*nal, a.

Defn: Relating to attitude.

ATTITUDINARIAN
At`ti*tu`di*na"ri*an, n.

Defn: One who attitudinizes; a posture maker.

ATTITUDINARIANISM
At`ti*tu`di*na"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: A practicing of attitudes; posture making.

ATTITUDINIZE
At`ti*tu"di*nize, v. i.

Defn: To assume affected attitudes; to strike an attitude; to pose.
Maria, who is the most picturesque figure, was put to attitudinize at
the harp. Hannah More.

ATTITUDINIZER
At`ti*tu"di*ni`zer, n

Defn: One who practices attitudes.

ATTLE
At"tle, n. Etym: [Cf. Addle mire.] (Mining)

Defn: Rubbish or refuse consisting of broken rock containing little
or no ore. Weale.

ATTOLLENT
At*tol"lent, a. Etym: [L. attollens, p. pr. of attollere; ad +
tollere to lift.]

Defn: Lifting up; raising; as, an attollent muscle. Derham.

ATTONCE
At*tonce", adv. Etym: [At + once.]

Defn: At once; together. [Obs.] Spenser.

ATTONE
At*tone", adv.

Defn: See At one. [Obs.]

ATTORN
At*torn", v. i. Etym: [OF. atorner, aturner, atourner, to direct,
prepare, dispose, attorn (cf. OE. atornen to return, adorn); à (L.
ad) + torner to turn; cf. LL. attornare to commit business to
another, to attorn; ad + tornare to turn, L. tornare to turn in a
lathe, to round off. See Turn, v. t.]

1. (Feudal Law)

Defn: To turn, or transfer homage and service, from one lord to
another. This is the act of feudatories, vassals, or tenants, upon
the alienation of the estate. Blackstone.

2. (Modern Law)

Defn: To agree to become tenant to one to whom reversion has been
granted.

ATTORNEY
At*tor"ney, n.; pl. Attorneys. Etym: [OE. aturneye, OF. atorné, p. p.
of atorner: cf. LL. atturnatus, attornatus, fr. attornare. See
Attorn.]

1. A substitute; a proxy; an agent. [Obs.]
And will have no attorney but myself. Shak.

2. (Law)
(a) One who is legally appointed by another to transact any business
for him; an attorney in fact.
(b) A legal agent qualified to act for suitors and defendants in
legal proceedings; an attorney at law.

Note: An attorney is either public or private. A private attorney, or
an attorney in fact, is a person appointed by another, by a letter or
power of attorney, to transact any business for him out of court; but
in a more extended sense, this class includes any agent employed in
any business, or to do any act in pais, for another. A public
attorney, or attorney at law, is a practitioner in a court of law,
legally qualified to prosecute and defend actions in such court, on
the retainer of clients. Bouvier.
 -- The attorney at law answers to the procurator of the civilians,
to the solicitor in chancery, and to the proctor in the
ecclesiastical and admiralty courts, and all of these are
comprehended under the more general term lawyer. In Great Britain and
in some states of the United States, attorneys are distinguished from
counselors in that the business of the former is to carry on the
practical and formal parts of the suit. In many states of the United
States however, no such distinction exists. In England, since 1873,
attorneys at law are by statute called solicitors. A power, letter,
or warrant, of attorney, a written authority from one person
empowering another to transact business for him.

ATTORNEY
At*tor"ney, v. t.

Defn: To perform by proxy; to employ as a proxy. [Obs.] Shak.

ATTORNEY-GENERAL
At*tor"ney-gen"er*al, n.; (pl. Attorney-generals or Attorneys-
general). (Law)

Defn: The chief law officer of the state, empowered to act in all
litigation in which the law-executing power is a party, and to advise
this supreme executive whenever required. Wharton.

ATTORNEYISM
At*tor"ney*ism, n.

Defn: The practice or peculiar cleverness of attorneys.

ATTORNEYSHIP
At*tor"ney*ship, n.

Defn: The office or profession of an attorney; agency for another.
Shak.

ATTORNMENT
At*torn"ment, n. Etym: [OF. attornement, LL. attornamentum. See
Attorn.] (Law)

Defn: The act of a feudatory, vassal, or tenant, by which he
consents, upon the alienation of an estate, to receive a new lord or
superior, and transfers to him his homage and service; the agreement
of a tenant to acknowledge the purchaser of the estate as his
landlord. Burrill. Blackstone.

ATTRACT
At*tract", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attracted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Attracting.] Etym: [L. attractus, p. p. of attrahere; ad + trahere to
draw. See Trace, v. t.]

1. To draw to, or cause to tend to; esp. to cause to approach,
adhere, or combine; or to cause to resist divulsion, separation, or
decomposition.
All bodies and all parts of bodies mutually attract themselves and
one another. Derham.

2. To draw by influence of a moral or emotional kind; to engage or
fix, as the mind, attention, etc.; to invite or allure; as, to
attract admirers.
Attracted by thy beauty still to gaze. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To draw; allure; invite; entice; influence.

ATTRACT
At*tract", n.

Defn: Attraction. [Obs.] Hudibras.

ATTRACTABILITY
At*tract`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or fact of being attractable. Sir W. Jones.

ATTRACTABLE
At*tract"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being attracted; subject to attraction.
 -- At*tract"a*ble*ness, n.

ATTRACTER
At*tract"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, attracts.

ATTRACTILE
At*tract"ile, a.

Defn: Having power to attract.

ATTRACTING
At*tract"ing, a.

Defn: That attracts.
 -- At*tract"ing*ly, adv.

ATTRACTION
At*trac"tion, n. Etym: [L. attractio: cf. F. attraction.]

1. (Physics)

Defn: An invisible power in a body by which it draws anything to
itself; the power in nature acting mutually between bodies or
ultimate particles, tending to draw them together, or to produce
their cohesion or combination, and conversely resisting separation.

Note: Attraction is exerted at both sensible and insensible
distances, and is variously denominated according to its qualities or
phenomena. Under attraction at sensible distances, there are, --(1.)
Attraction of gravitation, which acts at all distances throughout the
universe, with a force proportional directly to the product of the
masses of the bodies and inversely to the square of their distances
apart. (2.) Magnetic, diamagnetic, and electrical attraction, each of
which is limited in its sensible range and is polar in its action, a
property dependent on the quality or condition of matter, and not on
its quantity. Under attraction at insensible distances, there are, --
(1.) Adhesive attraction, attraction between surfaces of sensible
extent, or by the medium of an intervening substance. (2.) Cohesive
attraction, attraction between ultimate particles, whether like or
unlike, and causing simply an aggregation or a union of those
particles, as in the absorption of gases by charcoal, or of oxygen by
spongy platinum, or the process of solidification or crystallization.
The power in adhesive attraction is strictly the same as that of
cohesion. (3.) Capillary attraction, attraction causing a liquid to
rise, in capillary tubes or interstices, above its level outside, as
in very small glass tubes, or a sponge, or any porous substance, when
one end is inserted in the liquid. It is a special case of cohesive
attraction. (4.) Chemical attraction, or affinity, that peculiar
force which causes elementary atoms, or groups of atoms, to unite to
form molecules.

2. The act or property of attracting; the effect of the power or
operation of attraction. Newton.

3. The power or act of alluring, drawing to, inviting, or engaging;
an attractive quality; as, the attraction of beauty or eloquence.

4. That which attracts; an attractive object or feature.

Syn.
 -- Allurement; enticement; charm.

ATTRACTION SPHERE
At*trac"tion sphere.

1. (Zoöl.)
 (a) The central mass of the aster in mitotic cell division;
centrosphere.
 (b) Less often, the mass of archoplasm left by the aster in the
resting cell.

2.  (Bot.) A small body situated on or near the nucleus in the cells
of some of the lower plants, consisting of two centrospheres
containing centrosomes. It exercises an important function in
mitosis.

ATTRACTIVE
At*tract"ive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. attractif.]

1. Having the power or quality of attracting or drawing; as, the
attractive force of bodies. Sir I. Newton.

2. Attracting or drawing by moral influence or pleasurable emotion;
alluring; inviting; pleasing. "Attractive graces." Milton.
"Attractive eyes." Thackeray.
Flowers of a livid yellow, or fleshy color, are most attractive to
flies. Lubbock.
-- At*tract"ive*ly, adv.
 -- At*tract"ive*ness, n.

ATTRACTIVE
At*tract"ive, n.

Defn: That which attracts or draws; an attraction; an allurement.
Speaks nothing but attractives and invitation. South.

ATTRACTIVITY
At`trac*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or degree of attractive power.

ATTRACTOR
At*tract"or, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, attracts. Sir T. Browne

ATTRAHENT
At"tra*hent, a. Etym: [L. attrahens, p. pr. of attrahere. See
Attract, v. t.]

Defn: Attracting; drawing; attractive.

ATTRAHENT
At"tra*hent, n.

1. That which attracts, as a magnet.
The motion of the steel to its attrahent. Glanvill.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A substance which, by irritating the surface, excites action in
the part to which it is applied, as a blister, an epispastic, a
sinapism.

ATTRAP
At*trap", v. t. Etym: [F. attraper to catch; à (L. ad) + trappe trap.
See Trap (for taking game).]

Defn: To entrap; to insnare. [Obs.] Grafton.

ATTRAP
At*trap", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad + trap to adorn.]

Defn: To adorn with trapping; to array. [Obs.]
Shall your horse be attrapped . . . more richly Holland.

ATTRECTATION
At`trec*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. attrectatio; ad + tractare to handle.]

Defn: Frequent handling or touching. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

ATTRIBUTABLE
At*trib"u*ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being attributed; ascribable; imputable.
Errors . . . attributable to carelessness. J. D. Hooker.

ATTRIBUTE
At*trib"ute, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attributed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Attributing.] Etym: [L. attributus, p. p. of attribuere; ad +
tribuere to bestow. See Tribute.]

Defn: To ascribe; to consider (something) as due or appropriate (to);
to refer, as an effect to a cause; to impute; to assign; to consider
as belonging (to).
We attribute nothing to God that hath any repugnancy or contradiction
in it. Abp. Tillotson.
The merit of service is seldom attributed to the true and exact
performer. Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Ascribe.

ATTRIBUTE
At"tri*bute, n. Etym: [L. attributum.]

1. That which is attributed; a quality which is considered as
belonging to, or inherent in, a person or thing; an essential or
necessary property or characteristic.
But mercy is above this sceptered away; . . . It is an attribute to
God himself. Shak.

2. Reputation. [Poetic] Shak.

3. (Paint. & Sculp.)

Defn: A conventional symbol of office, character, or identity, added
to any particular figure; as, a club is the attribute of Hercules.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: Quality, etc., denoted by an attributive; an attributive
adjunct or adjective.

ATTRIBUTION
At`tri*bu"tion, n. Etym: [L. attributio: cf. F. attribution.]

1. The act of attributing or ascribing, as a quality, character, or
function, to a thing or person, an effect to a cause.

2. That which is ascribed or attributed.

ATTRIBUTIVE
At*trib"u*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. attributif.]

Defn: Attributing; pertaining to, expressing, or assigning an
attribute; of the nature of an attribute.

ATTRIBUTIVE
At*trib"u*tive, n., (Gram.)

Defn: A word that denotes an attribute; esp. a modifying word joined
to a noun; an adjective or adjective phrase.

ATTRIBUTIVELY
At*trib"u*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an attributive manner.

ATTRITE
At*trite", a. Etym: [L. attritus, p. p. of atterere; ad + terere to
rub. See Trite.]

1. Rubbed; worn by friction. Milton.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: Repentant from fear of punishment; having attrition of grief
for sin; -- opposed to contrite.

ATTRITION
At*tri"tion, n. Etym: [L. attritio: cf. F. attrition.]

1. The act of rubbing together; friction; the act of wearing by
friction, or by rubbing substances together; abrasion.
Effected by attrition of the inward stomach. Arbuthnot.

2. The state of being worn. Johnson.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: Grief for sin arising only from fear of punishment or feelings
of shame. See Contrition. Wallis.

ATTRITUS
At*tri"tus, n. [L. attritus, p. p. of atterere; ad + terere to rub.]

Defn: Matter pulverized by attrition.

ATTRY
At"try, a. Etym: [See Atter.]

Defn: Poisonous; malignant; malicious. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATTUNE
At*tune", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attuned (; p. pr. & vb. n. Attuning.]
Etym: [Pref. ad- + tune.]

1. To tune or put in tune; to make melodious; to adjust, as one sound
or musical instrument to another; as, to attune the voice to a harp.

2. To arrange fitly; to make accordant.
Wake to energy each social aim, Attuned spontaneous to the will of
Jove. Beattie.

ATWAIN
A*twain", adv. Etym: [OE. atwaine, atwinne; pref. a- + twain.]

Defn: In twain; asunder. [Obs. or Poetic] "Cuts atwain the knots."
Tennyson.

ATWEEN
A*tween", adv. or prep. Etym: [See Atwain, and cf. Between.]

Defn: Between. [Archaic] Spenser. Tennyson.

ATWIRL
A*twirl", a. & adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + twist.]

Defn: Twisted; distorted; awry. [R.] Halliwell.

ATWITE
A*twite", v. t. Etym: [OE. attwyten, AS. ætwitan. See Twit.]

Defn: To speak reproachfully of; to twit; to upbraid. [Obs.]

ATWIXT
A*twixt", adv.

Defn: Betwixt. [Obs.] Spenser.

ATWO
A*two", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + two.]

Defn: In two; in twain; asunder. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATYPIC; ATYPICAL
A*typ"ic, A*typ"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + typic, typical.]

Defn: That has no type; devoid of typical character; irregular;
unlike the type.

AUBADE
Au`bade", n. Etym: [F., fr. aube the dawn, fr. L. albus white.]

Defn: An open air concert in the morning, as distinguished from an
evening serenade; also, a pianoforte composition suggestive of
morning. Grove.
The crowing cock . . . Sang his aubade with lusty voice and clear.
Longfellow.

AUBAINE
Au`baine", n. Etym: [F., fr. aubain an alien, fr. L. alibi
elsewhere.]

Defn: Succession to the goods of a stranger not naturalized. Littré.
Droit d'aubaine (, the right, formerly possessed by the king of
France, to all the personal property of which an alien died
possessed. It was abolished in 1819. Bouvier.

AUBE
Aube, n. Etym: [See Ale.]

Defn: An alb. [Obs.] Fuller.

AUBERGE
Au`berge", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An inn. Beau. & Fl.

AUBIN
Au"bin, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A broken gait of a horse, between an amble and a gallop; --
commonly called a Canterbury gallop.

AUBURN
Au"burn, a. Etym: [OE. auburne blonde, OF. alborne, auborne, fr. LL.
alburnus whitish, fr. L. albus white. Cf. Alburn.]

1. Flaxen-colored. [Obs.] Florio.

2. Reddish brown.
His auburn locks on either shoulder flowed. Dryden.

AUCHENIUM
Au*che"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The part of the neck nearest the back.

AUCTARY
Auc"ta*ry, n. Etym: [L. auctarium.]

Defn: That which is superadded; augmentation. [Obs.] Baxter.

AUCTION
Auc"tion, n. Etym: [L. auctio an increasing, a public sale, where the
price was called out, and the article to be sold was adjudged to the
last increaser of the price, or the highest bidder, fr. L. augere,
auctum, to increase. See Augment.]

1. A public sale of property to the highest bidder, esp. by a person
licensed and authorized for the purpose; a vendue.

2. The things sold by auction or put up to auction.
Ask you why Phryne the whole auction buys Pope.

Note: In the United States, the more prevalent expression has been
"sales at auction," that is, by an increase of bids (Lat. auctione).
This latter form is preferable. Dutch auction, the public offer of
property at a price beyond its value, then gradually lowering the
price, till some one accepts it as purchaser. P. Cyc.

AUCTION
Auc"tion, v. t.

Defn: To sell by auction.

AUCTIONARY
Auc"tion*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. auctionarius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an auction or an auctioneer. [R.]
With auctionary hammer in thy hand. Dryden.

AUCTION BRIDGE
Auc"tion bridge.

Defn: A variety of the game of bridge in which the players, beginning
with the dealer, bid for the privilege of naming the trump and
playing with the dummy for that deal, there being heavy penalties for
a player's failure to make good his bid. The score value of each
trick more than six taken by the successful bidder is as follows:
when the trump is spades, 2; clubs, 6; diamonds, 7; hearts, 8; royal
spades (lilies), 9; and when the deal is played with no trump, 10.

AUCTIONEER
Auc`tion*eer", n.

Defn: A person who sells by auction; a person whose business it is to
dispose of goods or lands by public sale to the highest or best
bidder.

AUCTIONEER
Auc`tion*eer", v. t.

Defn: To sell by auction; to auction.
Estates . . . advertised and auctioneered away. Cowper.

AUCTION PITCH
Auction pitch.

Defn: A game of cards in which the players bid for the privilege of
determining or "pitching" the trump suit.  R. F. Foster.

AUCUPATION
Au`cu*pa"tion, n. Etym: [L. aucupatio, fr. auceps, contr. for
aviceps; avis bird + capere to take.]

Defn: Birdcatching; fowling. [Obs.] Blount.

AUDACIOUS
Au*da"cious, a. Etym: [F. audacieux, as if fr. LL. audaciosus (not
found), fr. L. audacia audacity, fr. audax, -acis, bold, fr. audere
to dare.]

1. Daring; spirited; adventurous.
As in a cloudy chair, ascending rides Audacious. Milton.

2. Contemning the restraints of law, religion, or decorum; bold in
wickedness; presumptuous; impudent; insolent. " Audacious traitor."
Shak. " Such audacious neighborhood." Milton.

3. Committed with, or proceedings from, daring effrontery or contempt
of law, morality, or decorum. "Audacious cruelty." "Audacious prate."
Shak.

AUDACIOUSLY
Au*da"cious*ly, adv.

Defn: In an audacious manner; with excess of boldness; impudently.

AUDACIOUSNESS
Au*da"cious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being audacious; impudence; audacity.

AUDACITY
Au*dac"i*ty, n.

1. Daring spirit, resolution, or confidence; venturesomeness.
The freedom and audacity necessary in the commerce of men. Tatler.

2. Reckless daring; presumptuous impudence; -- implying a contempt of
law or moral restraints.
With the most arrogant audacity. Joye.

AUDIBILITY
Au`di*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being audible; power of being heard; audible
capacity.

AUDIBLE
Au"di*ble, a. Etym: [LL. audibilis, fr. L. audire, auditum, to hear:
cf. Gr. auris, and E. ear.]

Defn: Capable of being heard; loud enough to be heard; actually
heard; as, an audible voice or whisper.

AUDIBLE
Au"di*ble, n.

Defn: That which may be heard. [Obs.]
Visibles are swiftlier carried to the sense than audibles. Bacon.

AUDIBLENESS
Au"di*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being audible.

AUDIBLY
Au"di*bly, adv.

Defn: So as to be heard.

AUDIENCE
Au"di*ence, n. Etym: [F. audience, L. audientia, fr. audire to hear.
See Audible, a.]

1. The act of hearing; attention to sounds.
Thou, therefore, give due audience, and attend. Milton.

2. Admittance to a hearing; a formal interview, esp. with a sovereign
or the head of a government, for conference or the transaction of
business.
According to the fair play of the world, Let me have audience: I am
sent to speak. Shak.

3. An auditory; an assembly of hearers. Also applied by authors to
their readers.
Fit audience find, though few. Milton.
He drew his audience upward to the sky. Dryden.
Court of audience, or Audience court (Eng.), a court long since
disused, belonging to the Archbishop of Canterbury; also, one
belonging to the Archbishop of York. Mozley & W.
 -- In general (or open) audience, publicly.
 -- To give audience, to listen; to admit to an interview.

AUDIENT
Au"di*ent, a. Etym: [L. audiens, p. pr. of audire. See Audible, a.]

Defn: Listening; paying attention; as, audient souls. Mrs. Browning.

AUDIENT
Au"di*ent, n.

Defn: A hearer; especially a catechumen in the early church. [Obs.]
Shelton.

AUDILE
Au"dile, n. [L. audire to hear.] (Psychol.)

Defn: One whose thoughts take the form of mental sounds or of
internal discourse rather than of visual or motor images.

AUDIOMETER
Au`di*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. audire to hear + -meter.] (Acous.)

Defn: An instrument by which the power of hearing can be gauged and
recorded on a scale.

AUDIPHONE
Au"di*phone, n. Etym: [L. audire to hear + Gr.

Defn: An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound to
the auditory nerve and enables the deaf to hear more or less
distinctly; a dentiphone.

AUDIT
Au"dit, n. Etym: [L. auditus a hearing, fr. audire. See Audible, a.]

1. An audience; a hearing. [Obs.]
He appeals to a high audit. Milton.

2. An examination in general; a judicial examination.

Note: Specifically: An examination of an account or of accounts, with
the hearing of the parties concerned, by proper officers, or persons
appointed for that purpose, who compare the charges with the
vouchers, examine witnesses, and state the result.

3. The result of such an examination, or an account as adjusted by
auditors; final account.
Yet I can make my audit up. Shak.

4. A general receptacle or receiver. [Obs.]
It [a little brook] paid to its common audit no more than the
revenues of a little cloud. Jer. Taylor.
Audit ale, a kind of ale, brewed at the English universities, orig.
for the day of audit.
 -- Audit house, Audit room, an appendage to a cathedral, for the
transaction of its business.

AUDIT
Au"dit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Audited; p. pr. & vb. n. Auditing.]

Defn: To examine and adjust, as an account or accounts; as, to audit
the accounts of a treasure, or of parties who have a suit depending
in court.

AUDIT
Au"dit, v. i.

Defn: To settle or adjust an account.
Let Hocus audit; he knows how the money was disbursed. Arbuthnot.

AUDITA QUERELA
Au*di"ta que*re"la. Etym: [L., the complaint having been heard.]
(Law)

Defn: A writ which lies for a party against whom judgment is
recovered, but to whom good matter of discharge has subsequently
accrued which could not have been availed of to prevent such
judgment. Wharton.

AUDITION
Au*di"tion, n. Etym: [L. auditio.]

Defn: The act of hearing or listening; hearing.
Audition may be active or passive; hence the difference between
listening and simple hearing. Dunglison.

AUDITIVE
Au"di*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. auditif.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to hearing; auditory. [R.] Cotgrave.

AUDITOR
Au"di*tor, n. Etym: [L. auditor, fr. audire. See Audible, a.]

1. A hearer or listener. Macaulay.

2. A person appointed and authorized to audit or examine an account
or accounts, compare the charges with the vouchers, examine the
parties and witnesses, allow or reject charges, and state the
balance.

3. One who hears judicially, as in an audience court.

Note: In the United States government, and in the State governments,
there are auditors of the treasury and of the public accounts. The
name is also applied to persons employed to check the accounts of
courts, corporations, companies, societies, and partnerships.

AUDITORIAL
Au`di*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Auditory. [R.]

AUDITORIUM
Au`di*to"ri*um, n. Etym: [L. See Auditory, n.]

Defn: The part of a church, theater, or other public building,
assigned to the audience.

Note: In ancient churches the auditorium was the nave, where hearers
stood to be instructed; in monasteries it was an apartment for the
reception of strangers.

AUDITORSHIP
Au"di*tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office or function of auditor.

AUDITORY
Au"di*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. auditorius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to hearing, or to the sense or organs of
hearing; as, the auditory nerve. See Ear. Auditory canal (Anat.), the
tube from the auditory meatus or opening of the ear to the tympanic
membrane.

AUDITORY
Au"di*to*ry, n. Etym: [L. auditorium.]

1. An assembly of hearers; an audience.

2. An auditorium. Udall.

AUDITRESS
Au"di*tress, n.

Defn: A female hearer. Milton.

AUDITUAL
Au*dit"u*al, a.

Defn: Auditory. [R.] Coleridge.

AUF
Auf, n. Etym: [OE. auph, aulf, fr. Icel. alfr elf. See Elf.] [Also
spelt oaf, ouphe.]

Defn: A changeling or elf child, -- that is, one left by fairies; a
deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an oaf. [Obs.] Drayton.

AU FAIT
Au` fait". Etym: [F. Lit., to the deed, act, or point. Fait is fr. L.
factum. See Fact.]

Defn: Expert; skillful; well instructed.

AUFKLARUNG
Auf"klä*rung, n. [G., enlightenment.]

Defn: A philosophic movement of the 18th century characterized by a
lively questioning of authority, keen interest in matters of politics
and general culture, and an emphasis on empirical method in science.
It received its impetus from the unsystematic but vigorous skepticism
of Pierre Bayle, the physical doctrines of Newton, and the
epistemological theories of Locke, in the preceding century. Its
chief center was in France, where it gave rise to the skepticism of
Voltaire , the naturalism of Rousseau, the sensationalism of
Condillac, and the publication of the "Encyclopedia" by D'Alembert
and Diderot. In Germany, Lessing, Mendelssohn, and Herder were
representative thinkers, while the political doctrines of the leaders
of the American Revolution and the speculations of Benjamin Franklin
and Thomas Paine represented the movement in America.

AU FOND
Au` fond". [F., lit., at the bottom.]

Defn: At bottom; fundamentally; essentially.

AUGEAN
Au*ge"an, a.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Augeus, king of Elis, whose stable
contained 3000 oxen, and had not been cleaned for 30 years. Hercules
cleansed it in a single day.

2. Hence: Exceedingly filthy or corrupt. Augean stable (Fig.), an
accumulation of corruption or filth almost beyond the power of man to
remedy.

AUGER
Au"ger, n. Etym: [OE. augoure, nauger, AS. nafegar, fr. nafu, nafa,
nave of a wheel + gar spear, and therefore meaning properly and
originally a nave-bore. See Nave (of a wheel) and 2d Gore, n.]

1. A carpenter's tool for boring holes larger than those bored by a
gimlet. It has a handle placed crosswise by which it is turned with
both hands. A pod auger is one with a straight channel or groove,
like the half of a bean pod. A screw auger has a twisted blade, by
the spiral groove of which the chips are discharge.

2. An instrument for boring or perforating soils or rocks, for
determining the quality of soils, or the nature of the rocks or
strata upon which they lie, and for obtaining water. Auger bit, a bit
with a cutting edge or blade like that of an anger.

AUGET
Au*get", n. Etym: [F., dim. of auge trough, fr. L. alveus hollow, fr.
alvus belly.] (Mining)

Defn: A priming tube connecting the charge chamber with the gallery,
or place where the slow match is applied. Knight.

AUGHT; AUCHT
Aught, Aucht, n. Etym: [AS. , fr. agan to own, p. p. ahte.]

Defn: Property; possession. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

AUGHT
Aught, n. Etym: [OE. aught, ought, awiht, AS. awiht, a ever + wiht.
*136. See Aye ever, and Whit, Wight.]

Defn: Anything; any part. [Also written ought.]
There failed not aught of any good thing which the Lord has spoken.
Josh. xxi. 45
But go, my son, and see if aught be wanting. Addison.

AUGHT
Aught, adv.

Defn: At all; in any degree. Chaucer.

AUGITE
Au"gite, n. Etym: [L. augites, Gr. augite.]

Defn: A variety of pyroxene, usually of a black or dark green color,
occurring in igneous rocks, such as basalt; -- also used instead of
the general term pyroxene.

AUGITIC
Au*git"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, augite; containing augite as a
principal constituent; as, augitic rocks.

AUGMENT
Aug*ment", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Augmented; p. pr. & vb. n.
Augmenting.] Etym: [L. augmentare, fr. augmentum an increase, fr.
augere to increase; perh. akin to Gr. wax, v., and eke, v.: cf. F.
augmenter.]

1. To enlarge or increase in size, amount, or degree; to swell; to
make bigger; as, to augment an army by reëforcements; rain augments a
stream; impatience augments an evil.
But their spite still serves His glory to augment. Milton.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: To add an augment to.

AUGMENT
Aug*ment", v. i.

Defn: To increase; to grow larger, stronger, or more intense; as, a
stream augments by rain.

AUGMENT
Aug"ment, n. Etym: [L. augmentum: cf. F. augment.]

1. Enlargement by addition; increase.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A vowel prefixed, or a lengthening of the initial vowel, to
mark past time, as in Greek and Sanskrit verbs.

Note: In Greek, the syllabic augment is a prefixed temporal augment
is an increase of the quantity (time) of an initial vowel, as by
changing

AUGMENTABLE
Aug*ment"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of augmentation. Walsh.

AUGMENTATION
Aug`men*ta"tion, n. Etym: [LL. augmentatio: cf. F. augmentation.]

1. The act or process of augmenting, or making larger, by addition,
expansion, or dilation; increase.

2. The state of being augmented; enlargement.

3. The thing added by way of enlargement.

4. (Her.)

Defn: A additional charge to a coat of arms, given as a mark of
honor. Cussans.

5. (Med.)

Defn: The stage of a disease in which the symptoms go on increasing.
Dunglison.

6. (Mus.)

Defn: In counterpoint and fugue, a repetition of the subject in tones
of twice the original length. Augmentation court (Eng. Hist.), a
court erected by Stat. 27 Hen. VIII., to augment to revenues of the
crown by the suppression of monasteries. It was long ago dissolved.
Encyc. Brit.

Syn.
 -- Increase; enlargement; growth; extension; accession; addition.

AUGMENTATIVE
Aug*ment"a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. augmentatif.]

Defn: Having the quality or power of augmenting; expressing
augmentation.
 -- Aug*ment"a*tive*ly, adv.

AUGMENTATIVE
Aug*ment"a*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: A word which expresses with augmented force the idea or the
properties of the term from which it is derived; as, dullard, one
very dull. Opposed to diminutive. Gibbs.

AUGMENTER
Aug*ment"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, augments or increases anything.

AU GRATIN
Au` gra`tin". [F.] (Cookery)

Defn: With a crust made by browning in the oven; as, spaghetti may be
served au gratin.

AUGRIM
Au"grim, n.

Defn: See Algorism. [Obs.] Chaucer. Augrim stones, pebbles formerly
used in numeration.
 -- Noumbres of Augrim, Arabic numerals. Chaucer.

AUGUR
Au"gur, n. Etym: [L. Of uncertain origin: the first part of the word
is perh. fr. L. avis bird, and the last syllable, gur, equiv. to the
Skr. gar to call, akin to L. garrulus garrulous.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: An official diviner who foretold events by the singing,
chattering, flight, and feeding of birds, or by signs or omens
derived from celestial phenomena, certain appearances of quadrupeds,
or unusual occurrences.

2. One who foretells events by omens; a soothsayer; a diviner; a
prophet.
Augur of ill, whose tongue was never found Without a priestly curse
or boding sound. Dryden.

AUGUR
Au"gur, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Augured (; p. pr. & vb. n. Auguring.]

1. To conjecture from signs or omens; to prognosticate; to foreshow.
My auguring mind assures the same success. Dryden.

2. To anticipate, to foretell, or to indicate a favorable or an
unfavorable issue; as, to augur well or ill.

AUGUR
Au"gur, v. t.

Defn: To predict or foretell, as from signs or omens; to betoken; to
presage; to infer.
It seems to augur genius. Sir W. Scott.
I augur everything from the approbation the proposal has met with. J.
F. W. Herschel.

Syn.
 -- To predict; forebode; betoken; portend; presage; prognosticate;
prophesy; forewarn.

AUGURAL
Au"gu*ral, a. Etym: [L. auguralis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to augurs or to augury; betokening; ominous;
significant; as, an augural staff; augural books. "Portents augural."
Cowper.

AUGURATE
Au"gu*rate, v. t. & i. Etym: [L. auguratus, p. p. of augurari to
augur.]

Defn: To make or take auguries; to augur; to predict. [Obs.] C.
Middleton.

AUGURATE
Au"gu*rate, n.

Defn: The office of an augur. Merivale.

AUGURATION
Au`gu*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. auguratio.]

Defn: The practice of augury.

AUGURER
Au"gur*er, n.

Defn: An augur. [Obs.] Shak.

AUGURIAL
Au*gu"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. augurialis.]

Defn: Relating to augurs or to augury. Sir T. Browne.

AUGURIST
Au"gu*rist, n.

Defn: An augur. [R.]

AUGURIZE
Au"gur*ize, v. t.

Defn: To augur. [Obs.] Blount.

AUGURIZE
Au"gur*ize, v. t.

Defn: To augur. [Obs.]  Blount.

AUGUROUS
Au"gu*rous, a.

Defn: Full of augury; foreboding. [Obs.] "Augurous hearts." Chapman.

AUGURSHIP
Au"gur*ship, n.

Defn: The office, or period of office, of an augur. Bacon.

AUGURY
Au"gu*ry, n.; pl. Auguries (. Etym: [L. aucurium.]

1. The art or practice of foretelling events by observing the actions
of birds, etc.; divination.

2. An omen; prediction; prognostication; indication of the future;
presage.
From their flight strange auguries she drew. Drayton.
He resigned himself . . . with a docility that gave little augury of
his future greatness. Prescott.

3. A rite, ceremony, or observation of an augur.

AUGUST
Au*gust", a. Etym: [L. augustus; cf. augere to increase; in the
language of religion, to honor by offerings: cf. F. auguste. See
Augment.]

Defn: Of a quality inspiring mingled admiration and reverence; having
an aspect of solemn dignity or grandeur; sublime; majestic; having
exalted birth, character, state, or authority. "Forms august." Pope.
"August in visage." Dryden. "To shed that august blood." Macaulay.
So beautiful and so august a spectacle. Burke.
To mingle with a body so august. Byron.

Syn.
 -- Grand; magnificent; majestic; solemn; awful; noble; stately;
dignified; imposing.

AUGUST
Au"gust, n. Etym: [L. Augustus. See note below, and August, a.]

Defn: The eighth month of the year, containing thirty-one days.

Note: The old Roman name was Sextilis, the sixth month from March,
the month in which the primitive Romans, as well as Jews, began the
year. The name was changed to August in honor of Augustus Cæsar, the
first emperor of Rome, on account of his victories, and his entering
on his first consulate in that month.

AUGUSTAN
Au*gus"tan, a. Etym: [L. Augustanus, fr. Augustus. See August, n.]

1. Of or pertaining to Augustus Cæsar or to his times.

2. Of or pertaining to the town of Augsburg. Augustan age of any
national literature, the period of its highest state of purity and
refinement; -- so called because the reign of Augustus Cæsar was the
golden age of Roman literature. Thus the reign of Louis XIV. (b.
1638) has been called the Augustan age of French literature, and that
of Queen Anne (b. 1664) the Augustan age of English literature.
 -- Augustan confession (Eccl. Hist.), or confession of Augsburg,
drawn up at Augusta Vindelicorum, or Augsburg, by Luther and
Melanchthon, in 1530, contains the principles of the Protestants, and
their reasons for separating from the Roman Catholic church.

AUGUSTINE; AUGUSTINIAN
Au*gus"tine, Au`gus*tin"i*an, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: A member of one of the religious orders called after St.
Augustine; an Austin friar.

AUGUSTINIAN
Au`gus*tin"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to St. Augustine, bishop of Hippo in Northern
Africa (b. 354 -- d. 430), or to his doctrines. Augustinian canons,
an order of monks once popular in England and Ireland; -- called also
regular canons of St. Austin, and black canons.
 -- Augustinian hermits or Austin friars, an order of friars
established in 1265 by Pope Alexander IV. It was introduced into the
United States from Ireland in 1790.
 -- Augustinian nuns, an order of nuns following the rule of St.
Augustine.
 -- Augustinian rule, a rule for religious communities based upon the
109th letter of St. Augustine, and adopted by the Augustinian orders.

AUGUSTINIAN
Au`gus*tin"i*an, n.

Defn: One of a class of divines, who, following St. Augustine,
maintain that grace by its nature is effectual absolutely and
creatively, not relatively and conditionally.

AUGUSTINIANISM; AUGUSTINISM
Au`gus*tin"i*an*ism, Au*gus"tin*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines held by Augustine or by the Augustinians.

AUGUSTLY
Au*gust"ly, adv.

Defn: In an august manner.

AUGUSTNESS
Au*gust"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being august; dignity of mien; grandeur;
magnificence.

AUK
Auk, n. Etym: [Prov. E. alk; akin to Dan. alke, Icel. & Sw. alka.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A name given to various species of arctic sea birds of the
family Alcidæ. The great auk, now extinct, is Alca (or Plautus)
impennis. The razor-billed auk is A. torda. See Puffin, Guillemot,
and Murre.

AUKWARD
Auk"ward, a.

Defn: See Awkward. [Obs.]

AULARIAN
Au*la"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. aula hall. Cf. LL. aularis of a court.]

Defn: Relating to a hall.

AULARIAN
Au*la"ri*an, n.

Defn: At Oxford, England, a member of a hall, distinguished from a
collegian. Chalmers.

AULD
Auld, a. Etym: [See Old.]

Defn: Old; as, Auld Reekie (old smoky), i. e., Edinburgh. [Scot. &
Prov. Eng.]

AULD LANG SYNE
Auld` lang syne".

Defn: A Scottish phrase used in recalling recollections of times long
since past. "The days of auld lang syne."

AULD LICHT; AULD LIGHT
Auld licht, Auld light . (Eccl. Hist.)
 (a) A member of the conservative party in the Church of Scotland in
the latter part of the 18th century.
 (b) Same as Burgher, n., 2.

AULETIC
Au*let"ic, a. Etym: [L. auleticus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a pipe (flute) or piper. [R.] Ash.

AULIC
Au"lic, a. Etym: [L. aulicus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to a royal court.
Ecclesiastical wealth and aulic dignities. Landor.
Aulic council (Hist.), a supreme court of the old German empire;
properly the supreme court of the emperor. It ceased at the death of
each emperor, and was renewed by his successor. It became extinct
when the German empire was dissolved, in 1806. The term is now
applied to a council of the war department of the Austrian empire,
and the members of different provincial chanceries of that empire are
called aulic councilors. P. Cyc.

AULIC
Au"lic, n.

Defn: The ceremony observed in conferring the degree of doctor of
divinity in some European universities. It begins by a harangue of
the chancellor addressed to the young doctor, who then receives the
cap, and presides at the disputation (also called the aulic).

AULN
Auln, n.

Defn: An ell. [Obs.] See Aune.

AULNAGE; AULNAGER
Aul"nage, Aul"na*ger, n.

Defn: See Alnage and Alnager.

AUM
Aum, n.

Defn: Same as Aam.

AUMAIL
Au*mail", v. t. Etym: [OE. for amel, enamel.]

Defn: To figure or variegate. [Obs.] Spenser.

AUMBRY
Aum"bry, n.

Defn: Same as Ambry.

AUMERY
Au"me*ry, n.

Defn: A form of Ambry, a closet; but confused with Almonry, as if a
place for alms.

AUNCEL
Aun"cel, n.

Defn: A rude balance for weighing, and a kind of weight, formerly
used in England. Halliwell.

AUNCETRY
Aun"cet*ry, n.

Defn: Ancestry. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AUNE
Aune, n. Etym: [F. See Alnage.]

Defn: A French cloth measure, of different parts of the country (at
Paris, 0.95 of an English ell); -- now superseded by the meter.

AUNT
Aunt, n. Etym: [OF. ante, F. tante, L. amita father's sister. Cf.
Amma.]

1. The sister of one's father or mother; -- correlative to nephew or
niece. Also applied to an uncle's wife.

Note: Aunt is sometimes applied as a title or term of endearment to a
kind elderly woman not thus related.

2. An old woman; and old gossip. [Obs.] Shak.

3. A bawd, or a prostitute. [Obs.] Shak. Aunt Sally, a puppet head
placed on a pole and having a pipe in its mouth; also a game, which
consists in trying to hit the pipe by throwing short bludgeons at it.

AUNTER
Aun"ter, n.

Defn: Adventure; hap. [Obs.] In aunters, perchance.

AUNTER; AUNTRE
Aun"ter, Aun"tre, v. t. Etym: [See Adventure.]

Defn: To venture; to dare. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AUNTIE; AUNTY
Aunt"ie, Aunt"y, n.

Defn: A familiar name for an aunt. In the southern United States a
familiar term applied to aged negro women.

AUNTROUS
Aun"trous, a.

Defn: Adventurous. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AURA
Au"ra, n.; pl. Auræ (. Etym: [L. aura air, akin to Gr.

1. Any subtile, invisible emanation, effluvium, or exhalation from a
substance, as the aroma of flowers, the odor of the blood, a supposed
fertilizing emanation from the pollen of flowers, etc.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The peculiar sensation, as of a light vapor, or cold air,
rising from the trunk or limbs towards the head, a premonitory
symptom of epilepsy or hysterics. Electric ~, a supposed electric
fluid, emanating from an electrified body, and forming a mass
surrounding it, called the electric atmosphere. See Atmosphere, 2.

AURAL
Au"ral, a. Etym: [L. aura air.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the air, or to an aura.

AURAL
Au"ral, a. Etym: [L. auris ear.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ear; as, aural medicine and surgery.

AURANTIACEOUS
Au*ran`ti*a"ceous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the Aurantiaceæ, an order of
plants (formerly considered natural), of which the orange is the
type.

AURATE
Au"rate, n. Etym: [L. auratus, p. p. of aurare to gild, fr. aurum
gold: cf. F. aurate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A combination of auric acid with a base; as, aurate or
potassium.

AURATED
Au"ra*ted, a. Etym: [See Aurate.]

1. Resembling or containing gold; gold-colored; gilded.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined with auric acid.

AURATED
Au"ra*ted, a.

Defn: Having ears. See Aurited.

AUREATE
Au"re*ate, a. Etym: [L. aureatus, fr. aureus golden, fr. aurum gold.]

Defn: Golden; gilded. Skelton.

AURELIA
Au*re"li*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. aurum gold: cf. F. aurélie. Cf.
Chrysalis.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The chrysalis, or pupa of an insect, esp. when reflecting a
brilliant golden color, as that of some of the butterflies.
(b) A genus of jellyfishes. See Discophora.

AURELIAN
Au*re"li*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the aurelia.

AURELIAN
Au*re"li*an, n.

Defn: An amateur collector and breeder of insects, esp. of
butterflies and moths; a lepidopterist.

AUREOLA; AUREOLE
Au*re"o*la, Au"re*ole, n. Etym: [F. auréole, fr. L. aureola, (fem
adj.) of gold (sc. corona crown), dim. of aureus. See Aureate,
Oriole.]

1. (R. C. Theol.)

Defn: A celestial crown or accidental glory added to the bliss of
heaven, as a reward to those (as virgins, martyrs, preachers, etc.)
who have overcome the world, the flesh, and the devil.

2. The circle of rays, or halo of light, with which painters surround
the figure and represent the glory of Christ, saints, and others held
in special reverence.

Note: Limited to the head, it is strictly termed a nimbus; when it
envelops the whole body, an aureola. Fairholt.

3. A halo, actual or figurative.
The glorious aureole of light seen around the sun during total
eclipses. Proctor.
The aureole of young womanhood. O. W. Holmes.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: See Areola, 2.

AU REVOIR
Au` re*voir". [F., lit., to the seeing again.]

Defn: Good-by until we meet again.

AURIC
Au"ric, a. Etym: [L. aurum gold.]

1. Of or pertaining to gold.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those
compounds of gold in which this element has its higher valence; as,
auric oxide; auric chloride.

AURICHALCEOUS
Au`ri*chal"ce*ous, a. Etym: [L. aurichalcum, for orichalcum brass.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Brass-colored.

AURICHALCITE
Au`ri*chal"cite, n. Etym: [See Aurichalceous.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous carbonate of copper and zinc, found in pale green or
blue crystalline aggregations. It yields a kind of brass on
reduction.

AURICLE
Au"ri*cle, n. Etym: [L. auricula, dim. of auris ear. See Ear.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) The external ear, or that part of the ear which is prominent from
the head.
(b) The chamber, or one of the two chambers, of the heart, by which
the blood is received and transmitted to the ventricle or ventricles;
-- so called from its resemblance to the auricle or external ear of
some quadrupeds. See Heart.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An angular or ear-shaped lobe.

3. An instrument applied to the ears to give aid in hearing; a kind
of ear trumpet. Mansfield.

AURICLED
Au"ri*cled, a.

Defn: Having ear-shaped appendages or lobes; auriculate; as, auricled
leaves.

AURICULA
Au*ric"u*la, n.; pl. L. Auriculæ (, E. Auriculas (. Etym: [L.
auricula. See Auricle.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) A species of Primula, or primrose, called also, from the shape of
its leaves, bear's-ear. (b)
(b) A species of Hirneola (H. auricula), a membranaceous fungus,
called also auricula Judæ, or Jew's-ear. P. Cyc.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A genus of air-breathing mollusks mostly found near the sea,
where the water is brackish
(b) One of the five arched processes of the shell around the jaws of
a sea urchin.

AURICULAR
Au*ric"u*lar, a. Etym: [LL. auricularis: cf. F. auriculaire. See
Auricle.]

1. Of or pertaining to the ear, or to the sense of hearing; as,
auricular nerves.

2. Told in the ear, i. e., told privately; as, auricular confession
to the priest.
This next chapter is a penitent confession of the king, and the
strangest . . . that ever was auricular. Milton.

3. Recognized by the ear; known by the sense of hearing; as,
auricular evidence. "Auricular assurance." Shak.

4. Received by the ear; known by report. "Auricular traditions."
Bacon.

5. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the auricles of the heart. Auricular finger, the
little finger; so called because it can be readily introduced into
the ear passage.

AURICULARIA
Au*ric`u*la"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [Neut. pl., fr. LL. auricularis.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of holothurian larva, with soft, blunt appendages. See
Illustration in Appendix.

AURICULARLY
Au*ric"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In an auricular manner.

AURICULARS
Au*ric"u*lars, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A circle of feathers surrounding the opening of the ear of
birds.

AURICULATE; AURICULATED
Au*ric"u*late, Au*ric"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Auricle.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having ears or appendages like ears; eared. Esp.: (a) (Bot.)
Having lobes or appendages like the ear; shaped like the ear;
auricled. (b) (Zoöl.) Having an angular projection on one or both
sides, as in certain bivalve shells, the foot of some gastropods,
etc. Auriculate leaf, one having small appended leaves or lobes on
each side of its petiole or base.

AURIFEROUS
Au*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. aurifer; aurum gold + ferre to bear: cf.
F. aurifère.]

Defn: Gold-bearing; containing or producing gold.
Whence many a bursting stream auriferous plays. Thomson.
~= pyrites, iron pyrites (iron disulphide), containing some gold
disseminated through it.

AURIFLAMME
Au"ri*flamme, n.

Defn: See Oriflamme.

AURIFORM
Au"ri*form, a. Etym: [L. auris ear + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of the human ear; ear-shaped.

AURIGA
Au*ri"ga, n. Etym: [L., charioteer.] (Anat.)

Defn: The Charioteer, or Wagoner, a constellation in the northern
hemisphere, situated between Perseus and Gemini. It contains the
bright star Capella.

AURIGAL
Au*ri"gal, a. Etym: [L. aurigalis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chariot. [R.]

AURIGATION
Au`ri*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. aurigatio, fr. aurigare to be a
charioteer, fr. auriga.]

Defn: The act of driving a chariot or a carriage. [R.] De Quincey.

AURIGRAPHY
Au*rig"ra*phy, n. Etym: [L. aurum gold + -graphy.]

Defn: The art of writing with or in gold.

AURILAVE
Au`ri*lave, n. [L. auris ear + lavare to wash.]

Defn: An instrument for cleansing the ear, consisting of a small
piece of sponge on an ivory or bone handle.

AURIN
Au"rin, n. Etym: [L. aurum gold.] (Chem.)

Defn: A red coloring matter derived from phenol; -- called also, in
commerce, yellow coralin.

AURIPHRYGIATE
Au`ri*phryg"i*ate, a. Etym: [LL. auriphrigiatus; L. aurum gold + LL.
phrygiare to adorn with Phrygian needlework, or with embroidery;
perhaps corrupted from some other word. Cf. Orfrays.]

Defn: Embroidered or decorated with gold. [R.] Southey.

AURIPIGMENT
Au`ri*pig"ment, n.

Defn: See Orpiment. [Obs.]

AURISCALP
Au"ri*scalp, n. Etym: [L. auris ear + scalpere to scrape.]

Defn: An earpick.

AURISCOPE
Au"ri*scope, n. Etym: [L. auris + -scope.] (Med.)

Defn: An instrument for examining the condition of the ear.

AURISCOPY
Au*ris"co*py, n.

Defn: Examination of the ear by the aid of the auriscope.

AURIST
Au"rist, n. Etym: [L. auris ear.]

Defn: One skilled in treating and curing disorders of the ear.

AURITED
Au"ri*ted, a. Etym: [L. auritus, fr. auris ear.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having lobes like the ear; auriculate.

AURIVOROUS
Au*riv"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. aurum gold + vorare to devour.]

Defn: Gold-devouring. [R.] H. Walpole.

AUROCEPHALOUS
Au`ro*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Aurum + cephalous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a gold-colored head.

AUROCHLORIDE
Au`ro*chlo"ride, n. Etym: [Aurum + chloride.] (Chem.)

Defn: The trichloride of gold combination with the chloride of
another metal, forming a double chloride; -- called also chloraurate.

AUROCHS
Au"rochs, n. Etym: [G. auerochs, OHG. ; (cf. AS. ) + ohso ox, G.
ochs. Cf. Owre, Ox.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European bison (Bison bonasus, or Europæus), once widely
distributed, but now nearly extinct, except where protected in the
Lithuanian forests, and perhaps in the Caucasus. It is distinct from
the Urus of Cæsar, with which it has often been confused.

AUROCYANIDE
Au`ro*cy"a*nide, n. Etym: [Aurum + cyanide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A double cyanide of gold and some other metal or radical; --
called also cyanaurate.

AURORA
Au*ro"ra, n.; pl. E. Auroras (, L. (rarely used) Auroræ (. Etym: [L.
aurora, for ausosa, akin to Gr. ushas, and E. east.]

1. The rising light of the morning; the dawn of day; the redness of
the sky just before the sun rises.

2. The rise, dawn, or beginning. Hawthorne.

3. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The Roman personification of the dawn of day; the goddess of
the morning. The poets represented her a rising out of the ocean, in
a chariot, with rosy fingers dropping gentle dew.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of crowfoot. Johnson.

5. The aurora borealis or aurora australis (northern or southern
lights). Aurora borealis (, i. e., northern daybreak; popularly
called northern lights. A luminous meteoric phenomenon, visible only
at night, and supposed to be of electrical origin. This species of
light usually appears in streams, ascending toward the zenith from a
dusky line or bank, a few degrees above the northern horizon; when
reaching south beyond the zenith, it forms what is called the corona,
about a spot in the heavens toward which the dipping needle points.
Occasionally the aurora appears as an arch of light across the
heavens from east to west. Sometimes it assumes a wavy appearance,
and the streams of light are then called merry dancers. They assume a
variety of colors, from a pale red or yellow to a deep red or blood
color. The Aurora australis (is a corresponding phenomenon in the
southern hemisphere, the streams of light ascending in the same
manner from near the southern horizon.

AURORAL
Au*ro"ral, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, the aurora (the dawn or the
northern lights); rosy.
Her cheeks suffused with an auroral blush. Longfellow.

AUROUS
Au"rous, a.

1. Containing gold.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those
compounds of gold in which this element has its lower valence; as,
aurous oxide.

AURUM
Au"rum, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Gold. Aurum fulminans (See Fulminate.
 -- Aurum mosaicum (See Mosaic.

AUSCULT
Aus*cult", v. i. & t.

Defn: To auscultate.

AUSCULTATE
Aus"cul*tate, v. i. & t.

Defn: To practice auscultation; to examine by auscultation.

AUSCULTATION
Aus`cul*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. ausculcatio, fr. auscultare to listen,
fr. a dim. of auris, orig. ausis, ear. See Auricle, and cf. Scout,
n.]

1. The act of listening or hearkening to. Hickes.

2. (Med.)

Defn: An examination by listening either directly with the ear
(immediate auscultation) applied to parts of the body, as the
abdomen; or with the stethoscope (mediate ~), in order to distinguish
sounds recognized as a sign of health or of disease.

AUSCULTATOR
Aus"cul*ta`tor, n.

Defn: One who practices auscultation.

AUSCULTATORY
Aus*cul"ta*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to auscultation. Dunglison.

AUSONIAN
Au*so"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Ausonia, poetic name for Italy.]

Defn: Italian. Milton.

AUSPICATE
Aus"pi*cate, a. Etym: [L. auspicatus, p. p. of auspicari to take
auspices, fr. auspex a bird seer, an augur, a contr. of avispex; avis
bird + specere, spicere, to view. See Aviary, Spy.]

Defn: Auspicious. [Obs.] Holland.

AUSPICATE
Aus"pi*cate, v. t.

1. To foreshow; to foretoken. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

2. To give a favorable turn to in commencing; to inaugurate; -- a
sense derived from the Roman practice of taking the auspicium, or
inspection of birds, before undertaking any important business.
They auspicate all their proceedings. Burke.

AUSPICE
Aus"pice, n.; pl. Auspices (. Etym: [L. auspicium, fr. auspex: cf. F.
auspice. See Auspicate, a.]

1. A divining or taking of omens by observing birds; an omen as to an
undertaking, drawn from birds; an augury; an omen or sign in general;
an indication as to the future.

2. Protection; patronage and care; guidance.
Which by his auspice they will nobler make. Dryden.

Note: In this sense the word is generally plural, auspices; as, under
the auspices of the king.

AUSPICIAL
Aus*pi"cial, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to auspices; auspicious. [R.]

AUSPICIOUS
Aus*pi"cious, a. Etym: [See Auspice.]

1. Having omens or tokens of a favorable issue; giving promise of
success, prosperity, or happiness; predicting good; as, an auspicious
beginning.
Auspicious union of order and freedom. Macaulay.

2. Prosperous; fortunate; as, auspicious years. "Auspicious chief."
Dryden.

3. Favoring; favorable; propitious; -- applied to persons or things.
"Thy auspicious mistress." Shak. "Auspicious gales." Pope.

Syn.
 -- See Propitious.
 -- Aus*pi"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Aus*pi"cious*ness, n.

AUSTER
Aus"ter, n. Etym: [L. auster a dry, hot, south wind; the south.]

Defn: The south wind. Pope.

AUSTERE
Aus*tere", Etym: [F. austère, L. austerus, fr. Gr. Sear.]

1. Sour and astringent; rough to the state; having acerbity; as, an
austere crab apple; austere wine.

2. Severe in modes of judging, or living, or acting; rigid; rigorous;
stern; as, an austere man, look, life.
From whom the austere Etrurian virtue rose. Dryden.

3. Unadorned; unembellished; severely simple.

Syn.
 -- Harsh; sour; rough; rigid; stern; severe; rigorous; strict.

AUSTERELY
Aus*tere"ly, adv.

Defn: Severely; rigidly; sternly.
A doctrine austerely logical. Macaulay.

AUSTERENESS
Aus*tere"ness, n.

1. Harshness or astringent sourness to the taste; acerbity. Johnson.

2. Severity; strictness; austerity. Shak.

AUSTERITY
Aus*ter"i*ty, n.; pl. Austplwies (. Etym: [F. austérité, L.
austerias, fr. austerus. See Austere.]

1. Sourness and harshness to the taste. [Obs.] Horsley.

2. Severity of manners or life; extreme rigor or strictness; harsh
discipline.
The austerity of John the Baptist. Milton.

3. Plainness; freedom from adornment; severe simplicity.
Partly owing to the studied austerity of her dress, and partly to the
lack of demonstration in her manners. Hawthorne.

AUSTIN
Aus"tin, a.

Defn: Augustinian; as, Austin friars.

AUSTRAL
Aus"tral, a. Etym: [L. australis, fr. auster: cf. F. austral.]

Defn: Southern; lying or being in the south; as, austral land;
austral ocean. Austral signs (Astron.), the last six signs of the
zodiac, or those south of the equator.

AUSTRALASIAN
Aus`tral*a"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Australasia; as, Australasian regions.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Australasia.

AUSTRALIAN
Aus*tra"li*an, a. Etym: [From L. Terra Australis southern land.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Australia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Australia.

AUSTRALIAN BALLOT
Aus*tra"li*an bal"lot. (Law)

Defn: A system of balloting or voting in public elections, originally
used in South Australia, in which there is such an arrangement for
polling votes that secrecy is compulsorily maintained, and the ballot
used is an official ballot printed and distributed by the government.

AUSTRALIZE
Aus"tral*ize, v. i. Etym: [See Austral.]

Defn: To tend toward the south pole, as a magnet. [Obs.]
They [magnets] do septentrionate at one extreme, and australize at
another. Sir T. Browne.

AUSTRIAN
Aus"tri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Austria, or to its inhabitants.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Austria.

AUSTRINE
Aus"trine, n. Etym: [L. austrinus, from auster south.]

Defn: Southern; southerly; austral. [Obs.] Bailey.

AUSTRO-HUNGARIAN
Aus"tro-Hun*ga"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the monarchy composed of Austria and
Hungary.

AUSTROMANCY
Aus"tro*man`cy, n. Etym: [L. auster south wind + -mancy.]

Defn: Soothsaying, or prediction of events, from observation of the
winds.

AUSZUG
Aus"zug` (ous"tsook), n.; Ger. pl. -zÜge (-tsü`ge). [G.]

Defn: See Army organization, Switzerland.

AUTARCHY
Au"tar*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Self-sufficiency. [Obs.] Milton.

AUTHENTIC
Au*then"tic, a. Etym: [OE. autentik, OF. autentique, F. authentique,
L. authenticus coming from the real author, of original or firsthand
authority, from Gr. sons and perh. orig. from the p. pr. of to be,
root as, and meaning the one it really is. See Am, Sin, n., and cf.
Effendi.]

1. Having a genuine original or authority, in opposition to that
which is false, fictitious, counterfeit, or apocryphal; being what it
purports to be; genuine; not of doubtful origin; real; as, an
authentic paper or register.
To be avenged On him who had stole Jove's authentic fire. Milton.

2. Authoritative. [Obs.] Milton.

3. Of approved authority; true; trustworthy; credible; as, an
authentic writer; an authentic portrait; authentic information.

4. (Law)

Defn: Vested with all due formalities, and legally attested.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: Having as immediate relation to the tonic, in distinction from
plagal, which has a correspondent relation to the dominant in the
octave below the tonic.

Syn.
 -- Authentic, Genuine. These words, as here compared, have reference
to historical documents. We call a document genuine when it can be
traced back ultimately to the author or authors from whom it
professes to emanate. Hence, the word has the meaning, "not changed
from the original, uncorrupted, unadulterated:" as, a genuine text.
We call a document authentic when, on the ground of its being thus
traced back, it may be relied on as true and authoritative (from the
primary sense of "having an author, vouched for"); hence its extended
signification, in general literature, of trustworthy, as resting on
unquestionable authority or evidence; as, an authentic history; an
authentic report of facts.
A genuine book is that which was written by the person whose name it
bears, as the author of it. An authentic book is that which relates
matters of fact as they really happened. A book may be genuine
without being, authentic, and a book may be authentic without being
genuine. Bp. Watson.

Note: It may be said, however, that some writers use authentic (as,
an authentic document) in the sense of "produced by its professed
author, not counterfeit."

AUTHENTIC
Au*then"tic, n.

Defn: An original (book or document). [Obs.] "Authentics and
transcripts." Fuller.

AUTHENTICAL
Au*then"tic*al, a.

Defn: Authentic. [Archaic]

AUTHENTICALLY
Au*then"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an authentic manner; with the requisite or genuine
authority.

AUTHENTICALNESS
Au*then*tic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being authentic; authenticity. [R.] Barrow.

AUTHENTICATE
Au*then"ti*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Authenticated (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Authenticating ( Etym: [Cf. LL. authenticare.]

1. To render authentic; to give authority to, by the proof,
attestation, or formalities required by law, or sufficient to entitle
to credit.
The king serves only as a notary to authenticate the choice of
judges. Burke.

2. To prove authentic; to determine as real and true; as, to
authenticate a portrait. Walpole.

AUTHENTICITY
Au`then*tic"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. authenticité.]

1. The quality of being authentic or of established authority for
truth and correctness.

2. Genuineness; the quality of being genuine or not corrupted from
the original.

Note: In later writers, especially those on the evidences of
Christianity, authenticity is often restricted in its use to the
first of the above meanings, and distinguished from qenuineness.

AUTHENTICLY
Au*then"tic*ly, adv.

Defn: Authentically.

AUTHENTICNESS
Au*then"tic*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being authentic; authenticity. [R.] Hammond.

AUTHENTICS
Au*then"tics, n. (Ciwil Law)

Defn: A collection of the Novels or New Constitutions of Justinian,
by an anonymous author; -- so called on account of its authencity.
Bouvier.

AUTHOR
Au"thor, n. Etym: [OE. authour, autour, OF. autor, F. auteur, fr. L.
auctor, sometimes, but erroneously, written autor or author, fr.
augere to increase, to produce. See Auction, n.]

1. The beginner, former, or first mover of anything; hence, the
efficient cause of a thing; a creator; an originator.
Eternal King; thee, Author of all being. Milton.

2. One who composes or writers a book; a composer, as distinguished
from an editor, translator, or compiler.
The chief glory every people arises from its authors. Johnson.

3. The editor of a periodical. [Obs.]

4. An informant. [Archaic] Chaucer.

AUTHOR
Au"thor, v. t.

1. To occasion; to originate. [Obs.]
Such an overthrow . . . I have authored. Chapman.

2. To tell; to say; to declare. [Obs.]
More of him I dare not author. Massinger.

AUTHORESS
Au"thor*ess, n.

Defn: A female author. Glover.

Note: The word is not very much used, author being commonly applied
to a female writer as well as to a male.

AUTHORIAL
Au*tho"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an author. "The authorial Hare.

AUTHORISM
Au"thor*ism, n.

Defn: Authoriship. [R.]

AUTHORITATIVE
Au*thor"i*ta*tive, a.

1. Having, or proceeding from, due authority; entitled to obedience,
credit, or acceptance; determinate; commanding.
The sacred functions of authoritative teaching. Barrow.

2. Having an air of authority; positive; dictatorial; peremptory; as,
an authoritative tone.
The mock authoritative manner of the one, and the insipid mirth of
the other. Swift.
-- Au*thor"i*ta*tive*ly, adv -- Au*thor"i*ta*tive*ness, n.

AUTHORITY
Au*thor"i*ty, n.; pl. Authorities (. Etym: [OE. autorite, auctorite,
F. autorité, fr. L. auctoritas, fr. auctor. See Author, n.]

1. Legal or rightful power; a right to command or to act; power
exercised buy a person in virtue of his office or trust; dominion;
jurisdiction; authorization; as, the authority of a prince over
subjects, and of parents over children; the authority of a court.
Thus can the demigod, Authority, Make us pay down for our offense.
Shak.
By what authority doest thou these things Matt. xxi. 23.

2. Government; the persons or the body exercising power or command;
as, the local authorities of the States; the military authorities.
[Chiefly in the plural.]

3. The power derived from opinion, respect, or esteem; influence of
character, office, or station, or mental or moral superiority, and
the like; claim to be believed or obeyed; as, an historian of no
authority; a magistrate of great authority.

4. That which, or one who, is claimed or appealed to in support of
opinions, actions, measures, etc. Hence:
(a) Testimony; witness. "And on that high authority had believed."
Milton.
(b) A precedent; a decision of a court, an official declaration, or
an opinion, saying, or statement worthy to be taken as a precedent.
(c) A book containing such a statement or opinion, or the author of
the book.
(d) Justification; warrant.
Wilt thou be glass wherein it shall discern Authority for sin,
warrant for blame. Shak.

AUTHORIZABLE
Au"thor*i`za*ble, a. Etym: [LL. authorisabilis.]

Defn: Capable of being authorized. Hammond.

AUTHORIZATION
Au`thor*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. autorisation.]

Defn: The act of giving authority or legal power; establishment by
authority; sanction or warrant.
The authorization of laws. Motley.
A special authorization from the chief. Merivale.

AUTHORIZE
Au"thor*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Authorized (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Authorizing.] Etym: [OE. autorize, F. autoriser, fr. LL. auctorizare,
authorisare. See Author.]

1. To clothe with authority, warrant, or legal power; to give a right
to act; to empower; as, to authorize commissioners to settle a
boundary.

2. To make legal; to give legal sanction to; to legalize; as, to
authorize a marriage.

3. To establish by authority, as by usage or public opinion; to
sanction; as, idioms authorized by usage.

4. To sanction or confirm by the authority of some one; to warrant;
as, to authorize a report.
A woman's story at a winter's fire, Authorized by her grandam. Shak.

5. To justify; to furnish a ground for. Locke.

AUTHORIZED
Au"thor*ized, a.

1. Possessed of or endowed with authority; as, an authorized agent.

2. Sanctioned by authority. The Authorized Version of the Bible is
the English translation of the Bible published in 1611 under sanction
of King James I. It was "appointed to be read in churches," and has
been the accepted English Bible. The Revised Version was published in
a complete form in 1855.

AUTHORIZE ONE'S SELF
To authorize one's self

Defn: , to rely for authority. [Obs.]
Authorizing himself, for the most part, upon other histories. Sir P.
Sidney.

AUTHORIZER
Au"thor*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who authorizes.

AUTHORLESS
Au"thor*less, a.

Defn: Without an author; without authority; anonymous.

AUTHORLY
Au"thor*ly, a.

Defn: Authorial. [R.] Cowper.

AUTHORSHIP
Au"thor*ship, n.

1. The quality or state of being an author; function or dignity of an
author.

2. Source; origin; origination; as, the authorship of a book or
review, or of an act, or state of affairs.

AUTHOTYPE
Au"tho*type, n.

Defn: A type or block containing a facsimile of an autograph. Knight.

AUTO-
Au"to- (. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form, with the meaning of self, one's self, one's
own, itself, its own.

AUTOBIOGRAPHER
Au`to*bi*og"ra*pher, n. Etym: [Auto- + biographer.]

Defn: One who writers his own life or biography.

AUTOBIOGRAPHIC; AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL
Au`to*bi`o*graph"ic, Au`to*bi`o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, autobiography; as, an
autobiographical sketch. "Such traits of the autobiographic sort."
Carlyle.
 -- Au`to*bi`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

AUTOBIOGRAPHIST
Au`to*bi*og"ra*phist, n.

Defn: One who writes his own life; an autobiographer. [R.]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Au`to*bi*og"ra*phy, n.; pl. Autobiographies (. Etym: [Auto- +
biography.]

Defn: A biography written by the subject of it; memoirs of one's life
written by one's self.

AUTOCARPOUS; AUTOCARPIAN
Au`to*car"pous, Au`to*car"pi*an, a. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Consisting of the pericarp of the ripened pericarp with no
other parts adnate to it, as a peach, a poppy capsule, or a grape.

AUTOCATALYSIS
Au`to*ca*tal"y*sis, n.  [Auto-+ catalysis.] (Chem.)

Defn: Self-catalysis; catalysis of a substance by one of its own
products, as of silver oxide by the silver formed by reduction of a
small portion of it. -- Au`to*cat`a*lyt"ic (#), a.

AUTOCEPHALOUS
Au`to*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: Having its own head; independent of episcopal or patriarchal
jurisdiction, as certain Greek churches.

AUTOCHRONOGRAPH
Au`to*chron"o*graph, n. Etym: [Auto- + chronograph.]

Defn: An instrument for the instantaneous self-recording or printing
of time. Knight.

AUTOCHTHON
Au*toch"thon, n.; pl. E. Authochthons (, L. Autochthones (. Etym:
[L., fr. Gr.

1. One who is supposed to rise or spring from the ground or the soil
he inhabits; one of the original inhabitants or aborigines; a native;
-- commonly in the plural. This title was assumed by the ancient
Greeks, particularly the Athenians.

2. That which is original to a particular country, or which had there
its origin.

AUTOCHTHONAL; AUTHOCHTHONIC; AUTOCHTHONOUS
Au*toch"tho*nal, Au`thoch*thon"ic, Au*toch"tho*nous, a.

Defn: Aboriginal; indigenous; native.

AUTOCHTHONISM
Au*toch"tho*nism, n.

Defn: The state of being autochthonal.

AUTOCHTHONY
Au*toch"tho*ny, n.

Defn: An aboriginal or autochthonous condition.

AUTOCLASTIC
Au`to*clas"tic, a. [See Auto-; Clastic.] (Geol.)

Defn: Broken in place; -- said of rocks having a broken or brecciated
structure due to crushing, in contrast to those of brecciated
materials brought from a distance.

AUTOCLAVE
Au"to*clave, n. Etym: [F., fr. Gr. clavis key.]

Defn: A kind of French stewpan with a steamtight lid. Knight.

AUTOCOHERER
Au`to*co*her"er, n.  [Auto- + coherer.] (Wireless Teleg.)

Defn: A self-restoring coherer, as a microphonic detector.

AUTOCRACY
Au*toc"ra*cy, n.; pl. Autocracies. Etym: [Gr. autocratie. See
Autocrat.]

1. Independent or self-derived power; absolute or controlling
authority; supremacy.
The divine will moves, not by the external impulse or inclination of
objects, but determines itself by an absolute autocracy. South.

2. Supreme, uncontrolled, unlimited authority, or right of governing
in a single person, as of an autocrat.

3. Political independence or absolute sovereignty (of a state);
autonomy. Barlow.

4. (Med.)

Defn: The action of the vital principle, or of the instinctive
powers, toward the preservation of the individual; also, the vital
principle. [In this sense, written also autocrasy.] Dunglison.

AUTOCRAT
Au"to*crat, n. Etym: [Gr. autocrate. See Hard, a.]

1. An absolute sovereign; a monarch who holds and exercises the
powers of government by claim of absolute right, not subject to
restriction; as, Autocrat of all the Russias (a title of the Czar).

2. One who rules with undisputed sway in any company or relation; a
despot.
The autocrat of the breakfast table. Holmes.

AUTOCRATIC; AUTOCRATICAL
Au`to*crat"ic, Au`to*crat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to autocracy or to an autocrat; absolute;
holding independent and arbitrary powers of government.
 -- Au`to*crat"ic*al*ly, adv.

AUTOCRATOR
Au*toc"ra*tor, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An autocrat. [Archaic]

AUTOCRATORICAL
Au`to*cra*tor"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an autocrator; absolute. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.

AUTOCRATRIX
Au*toc"ra*trix, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A female sovereign who is independent and absolute; -- a title
given to the empresses of Russia.

AUTOCRATSHIP
Au"to*crat*ship, n.

Defn: The office or dignity of an autocrat.

AUTO-DA-FE
Au"to-da-fé", n.; pl. Autos-da-fé (. Etym: [Pg., act of the faith;
auto act, fr. L. actus + da of the + fé faith, fr. L. fides.]

1. A judgment of the Inquisition in Spain and Portugal condemning or
acquitting persons accused of religious offenses.

2. An execution of such sentence, by the civil power, esp. the
burning of a heretic. It was usually held on Sunday, and was made a
great public solemnity by impressive forms and ceremonies.

3. A session of the court of Inquisition.

AUTO-DE-FE
Au"to-de-fe", n.; pl. Autos-de-fe. Etym: [Sp., act of faith.]

Defn: Same as Auto-da-fé.

AUTODIDACT
Au"to*di*dact`, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who is self-taught; an automath.

AUTODYNAMIC
Au`to*dy*nam"ic, a. Etym: [Auto- + dynamic.]

Defn: Supplying its own power; -- applied to an instrument of the
nature of a water-ram.

AUTOECIOUS
Au*to"cious, a.  [Auto-+ Gr.  house.] (Biol.)

Defn: Passing through all its stages on one host, as certain
parasitic fungi; -- contrasted with heterocious.

AUTOECISM
Au*to"cism, n.

Defn: Quality of being autocious.

AUTOFECUNDATION
Au`to*fec`un*da"tion, n. Etym: [Auto- + fecundation.] (Biol.)

Defn: Self-impregnation. Darwin.

AUTOGAMOUS
Au*tog"a*mous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Characterized by autogamy; self-fertilized.

AUTOGAMY
Au*tog"a*my, n. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Self-fertilization, the fertilizing pollen being derived from
the same blossom as the pistil acted upon.

AUTOGENEAL
Au`to*ge"ne*al, a.

Defn: Self-produced; autogenous.

AUTOGENESIS
Au`to*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Auto- + genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: Spontaneous generation.

AUTOGENETIC
Au`to*ge*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to autogenesis; self-generated.

AUTOGENETIC DRAINAGE
Autogenetic drainage. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A system of natural drainage developed by the constituent
streams through headwater erosion.

AUTOGENETIC TOPOGRAPHY
Autogenetic topography. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A system of land forms produced by the free action of rain and
streams on rocks of uniform texture.

AUTOGENOUS
Au*tog"e*nous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Self-generated; produced independently.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Developed from an independent center of ossification. Owen.
Autogenous soldering, the junction by fusion of the joining edges of
metals without the intervention of solder.

AUTOGENOUSLY
Au*tog"e*nous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an autogenous manner; spontaneously.

AUTOGRAPH
Au"to*graph, n. Etym: [F. autographe, fr. Gr.

Defn: That which is written with one's own hand; an original
manuscript; a person's own signature or handwriting.

AUTOGRAPH
Au"to*graph, a.

Defn: In one's own handwriting; as, an autograph letter; an autograph
will.

AUTOGRAPHAL
Au*tog"ra*phal, a.

Defn: Autographic. [Obs.]

AUTOGRAPHIC; AUTOGRAPHICAL
Au`to*graph"ic, Au`to*graph"ic*al, a.

1. Pertaining to an autograph, or one's own handwriting; of the
nature of an autograph.

2. Pertaining to, or used in, the process of autography; as,
autographic ink, paper, or press.

AUTOGRAPHY
Au*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. autographie.]

1. The science of autographs; a person's own handwriting; an
autograph.

2. A process in lithography by which a writing or drawing is
transferred from paper to stone. Ure.

AUTOHARP
Au"to*harp, n.  [Auto- + harp.]

Defn: A zitherlike musical instrument, provided with dampers which,
when depressed, deaden some strings, leaving free others that form a
chord.

AUTOHYPNOTIC
Au`to*hyp*not"ic, a.

Defn: Pert. to autohypnotism; self-hypnotizing. -- n.

Defn: An autohypnotic person.

AUTOHYPNOTISM
Au`to*hyp"no*tism, n.  [Auto-+ hypnotism.]

Defn: Hypnotism of one's self by concentration of the attention on
some object or idea.

AUTO-INFECTION
Au`to-in*fec"tion, n.  [Auto- + infection.] (Med.)

Defn: Poisoning caused by a virus that originates and develops in the
organism itself.

AUTO-INOCULATION
Au`to-in*oc`u*la"tion, n.  [Auto-+ inoculation.] (Med.)

Defn: Inoculation of a person with virus from his own body.

AUTO-INTOXICATION
Au`to-in*tox`i*ca"tion, n.  [Auto-+ intoxication.] (Med.)

Defn: Poisoning, or the state of being poisoned, from toxic
substances produced within the body; autotoxæmia.

AUTOKINESIS
Au`to*ki*ne"sis, n. [NL.; auto-+ Gr.  motion.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Spontaneous or voluntary movement; movement due to an internal
cause.

AUTOKINETIC
Au`to*ki*net"ic, a.  [Auto- + kinetic.]

Defn: Self-moving; moving automatically.

AUTOKINETIC SYSTEM
Autokinetic system.

Defn: In fire-alarm telegraphy, a system so arranged that when one
alarm is being transmitted, no other alarm, sent in from another
point, will be transmitted until after the first alarm has been
disposed of.

AUTOLATRY
Au*tol"a*try, n. Etym: [Auto- + Gr.

Defn: Self-worship. Farrar.

AUTOMATH
Au"to*math, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who is self-taught. [R.] Young.

AUTOMATIC; AUTOMATICAL
Au`to*mat"ic, Au`to*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. automatique. See
Automaton.]

1. Having an inherent power of action or motion.
Nothing can be said to be automatic. Sir H. Davy.

2. Pertaining to, or produced by, an automaton; of the nature of an
automaton; self-acting or self-regulating under fixed conditions; --
esp. applied to machinery or devices in which certain things formerly
or usually done by hand are done by the machine or device itself; as,
the automatic feed of a lathe; automatic gas lighting; an automatic
engine or switch; an automatic mouse.

3. Not voluntary; not depending on the will; mechanical; as,
automatic movements or functions.
Unconscious or automatic reasoning. H. Spenser.
Automatic arts, such economic arts or manufacture as are carried on
by self-acting machinery. Ure.

AUTOMATICALLY
Au`to*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an automatic manner.

AUTOMATISM
Au*tom"a*tism, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being automatic; the power of self-
moving; automatic, mechanical, or involuntary action. (Metaph.) A
theory as to the activity of matter.

AUTOMATON
Au*tom"a*ton, n.; pl. L. Automata (, E. Automatons (. Etym: [L. fr.
Gr. ma, man, to strive, think, cf. Mean, v. i.]

1. Any thing or being regarded as having the power of spontaneous
motion or action. Huxley.
So great and admirable an automaton as the world. Boyle.
These living automata, human bodies. Boyle.

2. A self-moving machine, or one which has its motive power within
itself; -- applied chiefly to machines which appear to imitate
spontaneously the motions of living beings, such as men, birds, etc.

AUTOMATOUS
Au*tom"a*tous, a. Etym: [L. automatus, Gr. Automaton.]

Defn: Automatic. [Obs.] "Automatous organs." Sir T. Browne.

AUTOMIXTE SYSTEM
Au`to*mixte" system. (Mach.)

Defn: A system (devised by Henri Pieper, a Belgian) of driving
automobiles employing a gasoline engine and an auxiliary reversible
dynamo. When there is an excess of power the dynamo is driven by the
engine so as to charge a small storage battery; when there is a
deficiency of power the dynamo reverses and acts as an auxiliary
motor. Sometimes called Pieper system. -- Automixte car, etc.

AUTOMOBILE
Au`to*mo"bile, n. [F.]

Defn: An automobile vehicle or mechanism; esp., a self-propelled
vehicle suitable for use on a street or roadway. Automobiles are
usually propelled by internal combustion engines (using volatile
inflammable liquids, as gasoline or petrol, alcohol, naphtha, etc.),
steam engines, or electric motors. The power of the driving motor
varies from about 4 to 50 H. P. for ordinary vehicles, ranging from
the run-about to the touring car, up to as high as 200 H. P. for
specially built racing cars. Automobiles are also commonly, and
generally in British usage, called motor cars.

AUTOMOBILISM
Au`to*mo"bil*ism, n.

Defn: The use of automobiles, or the practices, methods, or the like,
of those who use them. -- Au`to*mo"bil*ist, n.

AUTOMORPHIC
Au`to*mor"phic, a. Etym: [Auto- + Gr.

Defn: Patterned after one's self.
The conception which any one frames of another's mind is more or less
after the pattern of his own mind, -- is automorphic. H. Spenser.

AUTOMORPHISM
Au`to*mor"phism, n.

Defn: Automorphic characterization. H. Spenser.

AUTONOMASY
Au`to*nom"a*sy, n. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. antonomasia.] (Rhet.)

Defn: The use of a word of common or general signification for the
name of a particular thing; as, "He has gone to town," for, "He has
gone to London."

AUTONOMIC
Au`to*nom"ic, a.

Defn: Having the power of self-government; autonomous. Hickok.

AUTONOMIST
Au"to"no*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. automiste. See Autonomy.]

Defn: One who advocates autonomy.

AUTONOMOUS
Au*ton"o*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Independent in government; having the right or power of self-
government.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Having independent existence or laws.

AUTONOMY
Au*ton"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. autonomie. See Autonomous.]

1. The power or right of self-government; self-government, or
political independence, of a city or a state.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: The sovereignty of reason in the sphere of morals; or man's
power, as possessed of reason, to give law to himself. In this,
according to Kant, consist the true nature and only possible proof of
liberty. Fleming.

AUTOPATHIC
Au`to*path"ic, a. [See Auto-, and Pathic, a.] (Med.)

Defn: Dependent upon, or due or relating to, the structure and
characteristics of the diseased organism; endopathic; as, an
autopathic disease; an autopathic theory of diseases.

AUTOPHAGI
Au*toph"a*gi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Birds which are able to run about and obtain their own food as
soon as hatched.

AUTOPHAGY
Au*toph"a*gy, n. [Gr.  self +  to eat.] (Med.)

Defn: The feeding of the body upon itself, as in fasting; nutrition
by consumption of one's own tissues.

AUTOPHOBY
Au*toph"o*by, n. Etym: [Auto- + Gr.

Defn: Fear of one's self; fear of being egotistical. [R.] Hare.

AUTOPHONY
Au*toph"o*ny, n. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: An auscultatory process, which consists in noting the tone of
the observer's own voice, while he speaks, holding his head close to
the patient's chest. Dunglison.

AUTOPLASTIC
Au`to*plas"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to autoplasty.

AUTOPLASTY
Au"to*plas`ty, n. Etym: [Auto- + -plasty.] (Surg.)

Defn: The process of artificially repairing lesions by taking a piece
of healthy tissue, as from a neighboring part, to supply the
deficiency caused by disease or wounds.

AUTOPNEUMATIC
Au`to*pneu*mat"ic, a.  [Auto-+ pneumatic.]

Defn: Acting or moving automatically by means of compressed air.

AUTOPSIC; AUTOPSICAL
Au*top"sic, Au*top"sic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to autopsy; autoptical. [Obs.]

AUTOPSORIN
Au*top"so*rin, n. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: That which is given under the doctrine of administering a
patient's own virus.

AUTOPSY
Au"top*sy, n. Etym: [Gr. autopsie. See Optic, a.]

1. Personal observation or examination; seeing with one's own eyes;
ocular view.
By autopsy and experiment. Cudworth.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Dissection of a dead body, for the purpose of ascertaining the
cause, seat, or nature of a disease; a post-mortem examination.

AUTOPTIC; AUTOPTICAL
Au*top"tic, Au*top"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. autoptique.]

Defn: Seen with one's own eyes; belonging to, or connected with,
personal observation; as, autoptic testimony or experience.

AUTOPTICALLY
Au*top"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By means of ocular view, or one's own observation. Sir T.
Browne.

AUTOSCHEDIASTIC; AUTOSCHEDIASTICAL
Au`to*sche`di*as"tic, Au`to*sche`di*as"tic*al, a. Etym: [Auto- + Gr.
Schediasm.]

Defn: Extemporary; offhand. [R.] Dean Martin.

AUTOSTABILITY
Au`to*sta*bil"i*ty, n.  [Auto-+ stability.] (Mechanics)

Defn: Automatic stability; also, inherent stability. An aëroplane is
inherently stable if it keeps in steady poise by virtue of its shape
and proportions alone; it is automatically stable if it keeps in
steady poise by means of self-operative mechanism.

AUTOSTYLIC
Au`to*styl"ic, a. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having the mandibular arch articulated directly to the cranium,
as in the skulls of the Amphibia.

AUTOSUGGESTION
Au`to*sug*ges"tion, n.  [Auto-+ suggestion.] (Med.)

Defn: Self-suggestion as distinguished from suggestion coming from
another, esp. in hypnotism. Autosuggestion is characteristic of
certain mental conditions in which expectant belief tends to produce
disturbance of function of one or more organs.

AUTOTHEISM
Au"to*the`ism, n. Etym: [Auto- + theism.]

1. The doctrine of God's self-existence. [R.]

2. Deification of one's self; self-worship. [R.]

AUTOTHEIST
Au"to*the`ist, n.

Defn: One given to self-worship. [R.]

AUTOTOXAEMIA; AUTOTOXEMIA
Au`to*tox*æ"mi*a, Au`to*tox*e"mi*a, n. [NL. See Auto-, and Toxæmia.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: Self-intoxication. See Auto-intoxication.

AUTOTOXIC
Au`to*tox"ic, a.  [Auto- + toxic.] (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or causing, autotoxæmia.

AUTOTOXICATION
Au`to*tox`i*ca"tion, n.  [Auto-+ toxication.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Same as Auto-intoxication.

AUTOTRANSFORMER
Au`to*trans*form"er, n.  [Auto-+ transformer.] (Elec.)

Defn: A transformer in which part of the primary winding is used as a
secondary winding, or vice versa; -- called also a compensator or
balancing coil.

AUTOTROPHIC
Au`to*troph"ic, a.  [Auto- + trophic.] (Plant Physiol.)

Defn: Capable of self-nourishment; -- said of all plants in which
photosynthetic activity takes place, as opposed to parasitism or
saprophytism.

AUTOTROPISM
Au*tot"ro*pism, n.  [Auto- + Gr.  to turn.] (Plant Physiol.)

Defn: The tendency of plant organs to grow in a straight line when
uninfluenced by external stimuli.

AUTOTYPE
Au"to*type, n. Etym: [Auto- + -type: cf. F. autotype.]

1. A facsimile.

2. A photographic picture produced in sensitized pigmented gelatin by
exposure to light under a negative; and subsequent washing out of the
soluble parts; a kind of picture in ink from a gelatin plate.

AUTOTYPOGRAPHY
Au`to*ty*pog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Auto- + typography.]

Defn: A process resembling "nature printing," by which drawings
executed on gelatin are impressed into a soft metal plate, from which
the printing is done as from copperplate.

AUTOTYPY
Au*tot"y*py, n.

Defn: The art or process of making autotypes.

AUTUMN
Au"tumn, n. Etym: [L. auctumnus, autumnus, perh. fr. a root av to
satisfy one's self: cf. F. automne. See Avarice.]

1. The third season of the year, or the season between summer and
winter, often called "the fall." Astronomically, it begins in the
northern temperate zone at the autumnal equinox, about September 23,
and ends at the winter solstice, about December 23; but in popular
language, autumn, in America, comprises September, October, and
November.

Note: In England, according to Johnson, autumn popularly comprises
August, September, and October. In the southern hemisphere, the
autumn corresponds to our spring.

2. The harvest or fruits of autumn. Milton.

3. The time of maturity or decline; latter portion; third stage.
Dr. Preston was now entering into the autumn of the duke's favor.
Fuller.
Life's autumn past, I stand on winter's verge. Wordsworth.

AUTUMNAL
Au*tum"nal, a. Etym: [L. auctumnalis, autumnalis: cf. F. automnal.]

1. Of, belonging to, or peculiar to, autumn; as, an autumnal tint;
produced or gathered in autumn; as, autumnal fruits; flowering in
autumn; as, an autumnal plant.
Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks In Vallombrosa.
Milton.

2. Past the middle of life; in the third stage.
An autumnal matron. Hawthorne.
Autumnal equinox, the time when the sun crosses the equator, as it
proceeds southward, or when it passes the ~ point.
 -- ~= point, the point of the equator intersected by the ecliptic,
as the sun proceeds southward; the first point of Libra.
 -- ~= signs, the signs Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius, through
which the sun passes between the ~ equinox and winter solstice.

AUTUNITE
Au"tun*ite, n. [From Autun, France, its locality.] (Min.)

Defn: A lemon-yellow phosphate of uranium and calcium occurring in
tabular crystals with basal cleavage, and in micalike scales. H., 2-
2.5. Sp. gr., 3.05-3.19.

AUXANOMETER
Aux`a*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument to measure the growth of plants. Goodale.

AUXESIS
Aux*e"sis, n. Etym: [NL., Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure by which a grave and magnificent word is put for the
proper word; amplification; hyperbole.

AUXETIC
Aux*et"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, auxesis; amplifying.

AUXETOPHONE
Aux*e"to*phone, n. [Gr.  that may be increased +  sound, voice.]

Defn: A pneumatic reproducer for a phonograph, controlled by the
recording stylus on the principle of the relay. It produces much
clearer and louder tones than does the ordinary vibrating disk
reproducer.

AUXILIAR
Aux*il"iar, a. Etym: [L. auxiliaris: cf. F. auxiliaire. See
Auxiliary.]

Defn: Auxiliary. [Archaic]
The auxiliar troops and Trojan hosts appear. Pope.

AUXILIAR
Aux*il"iar, n.

Defn: An auxiliary. [Archaic] Milton.

AUXILIARLY
Aux*il"iar*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of help. Harris.

AUXILIARY
Aux*il"ia*ry, a. Etym: [L. auxiliarius, fr. auxilium help, aid, fr.
augere to increase.]

Defn: Conferring aid or help; helping; aiding; assisting; subsidiary;
as auxiliary troops. Auxiliary scales (Mus.), the scales of relative
or attendant keys. See under Attendant, a.
 -- Auxiliary verbs (Gram.). See Auxiliary, n., 3.

AUXILIARY
Aux*il"ia*ry, n.; pl. Auxiliaries (.

1. A helper; an assistant; a confederate in some action or
enterprise.

2. (Mil.) pl.

Defn: Foreign troops in the service of a nation at war; (rarely in
sing.), a member of the allied or subsidiary force.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: A verb which helps to form the voices, modes, and tenses of
other verbs; -- called, also, an auxiliary verb; as, have, be, may,
can, do, must, shall, and will, in English; être and avoir, in
French; avere and essere, in Italian; estar and haber, in Spanish.

4. (Math.)

Defn: A quantity introduced for the purpose of simplifying or
facilitating some operation, as in equations or trigonometrical
formulæ. Math. Dict.

AUXILIATORY
Aux*il"ia*to*ry, a.

Defn: Auxiliary; helping. [Obs.]

AUXOMETER
Aux*om"e*ter, n. [Gr.  to increase + -meter.] (Optics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the magnifying power of a lens or
system of lenses.

AVA
A"va, n.

Defn: Same as Kava. Johnston.

AVADAVAT
Av`a*da*vat", n.

Defn: Same as Amadavat.

AVAIL
A*vail", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Availed (p. pr. & vb. n. Availing.]
Etym: [OE. availen, fr. F. ad) + valoir to be worth, fr. L. valere to
be strong, to be worth. See Valiant.]

1. To turn to the advantage of; to be of service to; to profit; to
benefit; to help; as, artifices will not avail the sinner in the day
of judgment.
O, what avails me now that honor high ! Milton.

2. To promote; to assist. [Obs.] Pope. To avail one's self of, to
make use of; take advantage of.
Then shall they seek to avail themselves of names. Milton.
I have availed myself of the very first opportunity. Dickens.

AVAIL
A*vail", v. i.

Defn: To be of use or advantage; to answer the purpose; to have
strength, force, or efficacy sufficient to accomplish the object; as,
the plea in bar must avail, that is, be sufficient to defeat the
suit; this scheme will not avail; medicines will not avail to check
the disease. "What signs avail " Milton.
Words avail very little with me, young man. Sir W. Scott.

AVAIL
A*vail", n.

1. Profit; advantage toward success; benefit; value; as, labor,
without economy, is of little avail.
The avail of a deathbed repentance. Jer. Taylor.

2. pl.

Defn: Proceeds; as, the avails of a sale by auction.
The avails of their own industry. Stoddard.

Syn.
 -- Use; benefit; utility; profit; service.

AVAIL
A*vail", v. t. & i.

Defn: See Avale, v. [Obs.] Spenser.

AVAILABILITY
A*vail`a*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Availabilities (.

1. The quality of being available; availableness.

Note: The word is sometimes used derogatively in the sense of "mere
availableness," or capability of success without regard to
worthiness.
He was . . . nominated for his availability. Lowell.

2. That which is available.

AVAILABLE
A*vail"a*ble, a.

1. Having sufficient power, force, or efficacy, for the object;
effectual; valid; as, an available plea. [Obs.]
Laws human are available by consent. Hooker.

2. Such as one may avail one's self of; capable of being used for the
accomplishment of a purpose; usable; profitable; advantageous;
convertible into a resource; as, an available measure; an available
candidate.
Struggling to redeem, as he did, the available months and days out of
so many that were unavailable. Carlyle.
Having no available funds with which to pay the calls on new shares.
H. Spenser.

AVAILABLENESS
A*vail"a*ble*ness, n.

1. Competent power; validity; efficacy; as, the availableness of a
title. [Obs.]

2. Quality of being available; capability of being used for the
purpose intended. Sir M. Hale.

AVAILABLY
A*vail"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an available manner; profitably; advantageously;
efficaciously.

AVAILMENT
A*vail"ment, n.

Defn: Profit; advantage. [Obs.]

AVALANCHE
Av"a*lanche`, n. Etym: [F. avalanche, fr. avaler to descend, to let
down, from aval down, downward; ad) + val, L. vallis, valley. See
Valley.]

1. A large mass or body of snow and ice sliding swiftly down a
mountain side, or falling down a precipice.

2. A fall of earth, rocks, etc., similar to that of an avalanche of
snow or ice.

3. A sudden, great, or irresistible descent or influx of anything.

AVALE
A*vale", v. t. & i. Etym: [F. avaler to descend, to let down. See
Avalanche.]

1. To cause to descend; to lower; to let fall; to doff. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

2. To bring low; to abase. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

3. (v. i.)

Defn: To descend; to fall; to dismount. [Obs.]
And from their sweaty courses did avale. Spenser.

AVANT
A*vant", n. Etym: [For avant-guard. Cf. Avaunt, Van.]

Defn: The front of an army. [Obs.] See Van.

AVANT-COURIER
A*vant"-cou`ri*er, n. Etym: [F., fr. avant before + courrier. See
Avaunt, and Courier.]

Defn: A person dispatched before another person or company, to give
notice of his or their approach.

AVANT-GUARD
A*vant"-guard` (; sq. root277), n. Etym: [F. avant before + E. guard,
F. avant-garde. See Avaunt.]

Defn: The van or advanced body of an army. See Vanguard.

AVARICE
Av"a*rice, n. Etym: [F. avaritia, fr. avarus avaricious, prob. fr. av
to covert, fr. a root av to satiate one's self: cf. Gr. av to satiate
one's self, rejoice, protect.]

1. An excessive or inordinate desire of gain; greediness after
wealth; covetousness; cupidity.
To desire money for its own sake, and in order to hoard it up, is
avarice. Beattie.

2. An inordinate desire for some supposed good.
All are taught an avarice of praise. Goldsmith.

AVARICIOUS
Av`a*ri"cious, a. Etym: [Cf. F. avaricieux.]

Defn: Actuated by avarice; greedy of gain; immoderately desirous of
accumulating property.

Syn.
 -- Greedy; stingy; rapacious; griping; sordid; close.
 -- Avaricious, Covetous, Parsimonious, Penurious, Miserly,
Niggardly. The avaricious eagerly grasp after it at the expense of
others, though not of necessity with a design to save, since a man
may be covetous and yet a spendthrift. The penurious, parsimonious,
and miserly save money by disgraceful self-denial, and the niggardly
by meanness in their dealing with others. We speak of persons as
covetous in getting, avaricious in retaining, parsimonious in
expending, penurious or miserly in modes of living, niggardly in
dispensing.
 -- Av`a*ri"cious*ly, adv -- Av`a*ri"cious*ness, n.

AVAROUS
Av"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. avarus.]

Defn: Avaricious. [Obs.]

AVAST
A*vast", interj. Etym: [Corrupted from D. houd vast hold fast. See
Hold, v. t., and Fast, a.] (Naut.)

Defn: Cease; stop; stay. "Avast heaving." Totten.

AVATAR
Av`a*tar", n. Etym: [Skr. avatâra descent; ava from + root t to
cross, pass over.]

1. (Hindoo Myth.)

Defn: The descent of a deity to earth, and his incarnation as a man
or an animal; -- chiefly associated with the incarnations of Vishnu.

2. Incarnation; manifestation as an object of worship or admiration.

AVAUNCE
A*vaunce", v. t. & i. Etym: [See Advance.]

Defn: To advance; to profit. Chaucer.

AVAUNT
A*vaunt", interj. Etym: [F. avant forward, fr. L. ab + ante before.
Cf. Avant, Advance.]

Defn: Begone; depart; -- a word of contempt or abhorrence, equivalent
to the phrase "Get thee gone."

AVAUNT
A*vaunt", v. t. & i.

1. To advance; to move forward; to elevate. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. To depart; to move away. [Obs.] Coverdale.

AVAUNT
A*vaunt", v. t. & i. Etym: [OF. avanter; (L. ad) + vanter. See
Vaunt.]

Defn: To vaunt; to boast. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVAUNT
A*vaunt", n.

Defn: A vaunt; to boast. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVAUNTOUR
A*vaunt"our, n. Etym: [OF. avanteur.]

Defn: A boaster. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVE
A"ve, n. Etym: [L., hail.]

1. An ave Maria.
He repeated Aves and Credos. Macaulay.

2. A reverential salutation.
Their loud applause and aves vehement. Shak.

AVEL
A*vel, v. t. Etym: [L. avellere.]

Defn: To pull away. [Obs.]
Yet are not these parts avelled. Sir T. Browne.

AVELLANE
A*vel"lane, a. Etym: [Cf. It. avellana a filbert, fr. L. Avella or
Abella a city of Campania.] (Her.)

Defn: In the form of four unhusked filberts; as, an avellane cross.

AVE MARIA; AVE MARY
A"ve Ma*ri"a, A"ve Ma"ry.Etym: [From the first words of the Roman
Catholic prayer to the Virgin Mary; L. ave hail, Maria Mary.]

1. A salutation and prayer to the Virgin Mary, as mother of God; --
used in the Roman Catholic church.
To number Ave Maries on his beads. Shak.

2. A particular time (as in Italy, at the ringing of the bells about
half an hour after sunset, and also at early dawn), when the people
repeat the Ave Maria.
Ave Maria ! blessed be the hour ! Byron.

AVENA
A*ve"na, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of grasses, including the common oat (Avena sativa);
the oat grasses.

AVENACEOUS
Av`e*na"ceous, a. Etym: [L. avenaceus, fr. avena oats.]

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, oats or the oat grasses.

AVENAGE
Av"e*nage, n. Etym: [F. avenage, fr. L. avena oats.] (Old Law)

Defn: A quantity of oats paid by a tenant to a landlord in lieu of
rent. Jacob.

AVENALIN
A*ven"a*lin, n. [L. avena eats.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline globulin, contained in oat kernels, very similar
in composition to excelsin, but different in reactions and
crystalline form.

AVENER
Av"e*ner, n. Etym: [OF. avenier, fr. aveine, avaine, avoine, oats, F.
avoine, L. avena.] (Feud. Law)

Defn: An officer of the king's stables whose duty it was to provide
oats for the horses. [Obs.]

AVENGE
A*venge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Avenged (p. pr. & vb. n. Avenging (
Etym: [OF. avengier; L. ad + vindicare to lay claim to, to avenge,
revenge. See Vengeance.]

1. To take vengeance for; to exact satisfaction for by punishing the
injuring party; to vindicate by inflicting pain or evil on a
wrongdoer.
He will avenge the blood of his servants. Deut. xxxii. 43.
Avenge, O Lord, thy slaughtered saints, whose bones Lie scattered on
the Alpine mountains cold. Milton.
He had avenged himself on them by havoc such as England had never
before seen. Macaulay.

2. To treat revengefully; to wreak vengeance on. [Obs.]
Thy judgment in avenging thine enemies. Bp. Hall.

Syn.
 -- To Avenge, Revenge. To avenge is to inflict punishment upon evil
doers in behalf of ourselves, or others for whom we act; as, to
avenge one's wrongs; to avenge the injuries of the suffering and
innocent. It is to inflict pain for the sake of vindication, or
retributive justice. To revenge is to inflict pain or injury for the
indulgence of resentful and malicious feelings. The former may at
times be a duty; the latter is one of the worst exhibitions of human
character.
I avenge myself upon another, or I avenge another, or I avenge a
wrong. I revenge only myself, and that upon another. C. J. Smith.

AVENGE
A*venge", v. i.

Defn: To take vengeance. Levit. xix. 18.

AVENGE
A*venge", n.

Defn: Vengeance; revenge. [Obs.] Spenser.

AVENGEANCE
A*venge"ance, n.

Defn: Vengeance. [Obs.]

AVENGEFUL
A*venge"ful, a.

Defn: Vengeful. [Obs.] Spenser.

AVENGEMENT
A*venge"ment, n.

Defn: The inflicting of retributive punishment; satisfaction taken.
[R.] Milton.

AVENGER
A*ven"ger, n.

1. One who avenges or vindicates; as, an avenger of blood.

2. One who takes vengeance. [Obs.] Milton.

AVENGERESS
A*ven"ger*ess, n.

Defn: A female avenger. [Obs.] Spenser.

AVENIOUS
A*ve"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + L. vena a vein.] (Bot.)

Defn: Being without veins or nerves, as the leaves of certain plants.

AVENOR
Av"e*nor, n.

Defn: See Avener. [Obs.]

AVENS
Av"ens, n. Etym: [OF. avence.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Geum, esp. Geum urbanum, or herb bennet.

AVENTAIL
Av"en*tail, n. Etym: [OF. esventail. Cf. Ventail.]

Defn: The movable front to a helmet; the ventail.

AVENTINE
Av"en*tine, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Mons Aventinus, one of the seven hills on which
Rome stood. Bryant.

AVENTINE
Av"en*tine, n.

Defn: A post of security or defense. [Poetic]
Into the castle's tower, The only Aventine that now is left him.
Beau. & Fl.

AVENTRE
A*ven"tre, v. t.

Defn: To thrust forward (at a venture), as a spear. [Obs.] Spenser.

AVENTURE
A*ven"ture, n. Etym: [See Adventure, n.]

1. Accident; chance; adventure. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. (Old Law)

Defn: A mischance causing a person's death without felony, as by
drowning, or falling into the fire.

AVENTURINE
A*ven"tu*rine, n. Etym: [F. aventurine: cf. It. avventurino.]

1. A kind of glass, containing gold-colored spangles. It was produced
in the first place by the accidental (par aventure) dropping of some
brass filings into a pot of melted glass.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of translucent quartz, spangled throughout with
scales of yellow mica. ~= feldspar, a variety of oligoclase with
internal firelike reflections due to the presence of minute crystals,
probably of hematite; sunstone.

AVENUE
Av"e*nue, n. Etym: [F. avenue, fr. avenir to come to, L. advenire.
See Advene.]

1. A way or opening for entrance into a place; a passage by which a
place may by reached; a way of approach or of exit. "The avenues
leading to the city by land." Macaulay.
On every side were expanding new avenues of inquiry. Milman.

2. The principal walk or approach to a house which is withdrawn from
the road, especially, such approach bordered on each side by trees;
any broad passageway thus bordered.
An avenue of tall elms and branching chestnuts. W. Black.

3. A broad street; as, the Fifth Avenue in New York.

AVER
A"ver, n. Etym: [OF. aver domestic animal, whence LL. averia, pl.
cattle. See Habit, and cf. Average.]

Defn: A work horse, or working ox. [Obs. or Dial. Eng.]

AVER
A*ver", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Averred (p. pr. & vb. n. Averring.] Etym:
[F. avérer, LL. adverare, averare; L. ad + versus true. See Verity.]

1. To assert, or prove, the truth of. [Obs.]

2. (Law)

Defn: To avouch or verify; to offer to verify; to prove or justify.
See Averment.

3. To affirm with confidence; to declare in a positive manner, as in
confidence of asserting the truth.
It is sufficient that the very fact hath its foundation in truth, as
I do seriously aver is the case. Fielding.
Then all averred I had killed the bird. Coleridge.

Syn.
 -- To assert; affirm; asseverate. See Affirm.

AVERAGE
Av"er*age, n. Etym: [OF. average, LL. averagium, prob. fr. OF. aver,
F. avoir, property, horses, cattle, etc.; prop. infin., to have, from
L. habere to have. Cf. F. avérage small cattle, and avarie (perh. of
different origin) damage to ship or cargo, port dues. The first
meaning was peAver, n., Avercorn, Averpenny.]

1. (OLd Eng. Law)

Defn: That service which a tenant owed his lord, to be done by the
work beasts of the tenant, as the carriage of wheat, turf, etc.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. avarie damage to ship or cargo.] (Com.)
(a) A tariff or duty on goods, etc. [Obs.]
(b) Any charge in addition to the regular charge for freight of goods
shipped.
(c) A contribution to a loss or charge which has been imposed upon
one of several for the general benefit; damage done by sea perils.
(d) The equitable and proportionate distribution of loss or expense
among all interested. General average, a contribution made, by all
parties concerned in a sea adventure, toward a loss occasioned by the
voluntary sacrifice of the property of some of the parties in
interest for the benefit of all. It is called general average,
because it falls upon the gross amount of ship, cargo, and freight at
risk and saved by the sacrifice. Kent.
 -- Particular average signifies the damage or partial loss happening
to the ship, or cargo, or freight, in consequence of some fortuitous
or unavoidable accident; and it is borne by the individual owners of
the articles damaged, or by their insurers.
 -- Petty averages are sundry small charges, which occur regularly,
and are necessarily defrayed by the master in the usual course of a
voyage; such as port charges, common pilotage, and the like, which
formerly were, and in some cases still are, borne partly by the ship
and partly by the cargo. In the clause commonly found in bills of
lading, "primage and average accustomed," average means a kind of
composition established by usage for such charges, which were
formerly assessed by way of average. Arnould. Abbott. Phillips.

3. A mean proportion, medial sum or quantity, made out of unequal
sums or quantities; an arithmetical mean. Thus, if A loses 5 dollars,
B 9, and C 16, the sum is 30, and the average 10.

4. Any medial estimate or general statement derived from a comparison
of diverse specific cases; a medium or usual size, quantity, quality,
rate, etc. "The average of sensations." Paley.

5. pl.

Defn: In the English corn trade, the medial price of the several
kinds of grain in the principal corn markets. On an average, taking
the mean of unequal numbers or quantities.

AVERAGE
Av"er*age, a.

1. Pertaining to an average or mean; medial; containing a mean
proportion; of a mean size, quality, ability, etc.; ordinary; usual;
as, an average rate of profit; an average amount of rain; the average
Englishman; beings of the average stamp.

2. According to the laws of averages; as, the loss must be made good
by average contribution.

AVERAGE
Av"er*age, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Averaged (p. pr. & vb. n. Averaging.]

1. To find the mean of, when sums or quantities are unequal; to
reduce to a mean.

2. To divide among a number, according to a given proportion; as, to
average a loss.

3. To do, accomplish, get, etc., on an average.

AVERAGE
Av"er*age, v. i.

Defn: To form, or exist in, a mean or medial sum or quantity; to
amount to, or to be, on an ~; as, the losses of the owners will
average twenty five dollars each; these spars average ten feet in
length.

AVERCORN
A"ver*corn`, n. Etym: [Aver,n.+ corn.] (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: A reserved rent in corn, formerly paid to religious houses by
their tenants or farmers. Kennet.

AVERMENT
A*ver"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. averement, LL. averamentum. See Aver,
v. t.]

1. The act of averring, or that which is averred; affirmation;
positive assertion.
Signally has this averment received illustration in the course of
recent events. I. Taylor.

2. Verification; establishment by evidence. Bacon.

3. (Law)

Defn: A positive statement of facts; an allegation; an offer to
justify or prove what is alleged.

Note: In any stage of pleadings, when either party advances new
matter, he avers it to be true, by using this form of words: "and
this he is ready to verify." This was formerly called an averment. It
modern pleading, it is termed a verification. Blackstone.

AVERNAL; AVERNIAN
A*ver"nal, A*ver"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Avernus, a lake of Campania, in Italy,
famous for its poisonous vapors, which ancient writers fancied were
so malignant as to kill birds flying over it. It was represented by
the poets to be connected with the infernal regions.

AVERPENNY
Av"er*pen`ny, n. Etym: [Aver,n.+ penny.] (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: Money paid by a tenant in lieu of the service of average.

AVERROISM
A*ver"ro*ism, n.

Defn: The tenets of the Averroists.

AVERROIST
A*ver"ro*ist, n.

Defn: One of a sect of peripatetic philosophers, who appeared in
Italy before the restoration of learning; so denominated from
Averroes, or Averrhoes, a celebrated Arabian philosopher. He held the
doctrine of monopsychism.

AVERRUNCATE
Av`er*run"cate, v. t. Etym: [L. averruncare to avert; a, ab, off +
verruncare to turn; formerly derived from ab and eruncare to root
out. Cf. Aberuncate.]

1. To avert; to ward off. [Obs.] Hudibras.

2. To root up. [Obs.] Johnson.

AVERRUNCATION
Av`er*run*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. averroncation.]

1. The act of averting. [Obs.]

2. Eradication. [R.] De Quincey.

AVERRUNCATOR
Av`er*run*ca"tor, n. Etym: [Cf. Aberuncator.]

Defn: An instrument for pruning trees, consisting of two blades, or a
blade and a hook, fixed on the end of a long rod.

AVERSATION
Av`er*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. aversatio, fr. aversari to turn away, v.
intens. of avertere. See Avert.]

Defn: A turning from with dislike; aversion. [Obs.or Archaic]
Some men have a natural aversation to some vices or virtues, and a
natural affection to others. Jer. Taylor.

AVERSE
A*verse", a. Etym: [L. aversus, p. p. of avertere. See Avert.]

1. Turned away or backward. [Obs.]
The tracks averse a lying notice gave, And led the searcher backward
from the cave. Dryden.

2. Having a repugnance or opposition of mind; disliking; disinclined;
unwilling; reluctant.
Averse alike to flatter, or offend. Pope.
Men who were averse to the life of camps. Macaulay.
Pass by securely as men averse from war. Micah ii. 8.

Note: The prevailing usage now is to employ to after averse and its
derivatives rather than from, as was formerly the usage. In this the
word is in agreement with its kindred terms, hatred, dislike,
dissimilar, contrary, repugnant, etc., expressing a relation or an
affection of the mind to an object.

Syn.
 -- Averse, Reluctant, Adverse. Averse expresses an habitual, though
not of necessity a very strong, dislike; as, averse to active
pursuits; averse to study. Reluctant, a term of the of the will,
implies an internal struggle as to making some sacrifice of interest
or feeling; as, reluctant to yield; reluctant to make the necessary
arrangements; a reluctant will or consent. Adverse denotes active
opposition or hostility; as, adverse interests; adverse feelings,
plans, or movements; the adverse party.

AVERSE
A*verse", v. t. & i.

Defn: To turn away. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

AVERSELY
A*verse"ly, adv.

1. Backward; in a backward direction; as, emitted aversely.

2. With repugnance or aversion; unwillingly.

AVERSENESS
A*verse"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being averse; opposition of mind; unwillingness.

AVERSION
A*ver"sion, n. Etym: [L. aversio: cf. F. aversion. See Avert.]

1. A turning away. [Obs.]
Adhesion to vice and aversion from goodness. Bp. Atterbury.

2. Opposition or repugnance of mind; fixed dislike; antipathy;
disinclination; reluctance.
Mutual aversion of races. Prescott.
His rapacity had made him an object of general aversion. Macaulay.

Note: It is now generally followed by to before the object. [See
Averse.] Sometimes towards and for are found; from is obsolete.
A freeholder is bred with an aversion to subjection. Addison.
His aversion towards the house of York. Bacon.
It is not difficult for a man to see that a person has conceived an
aversion for him. Spectator.
The Khasias . . . have an aversion to milk. J. D. Hooker.

3. The object of dislike or repugnance.
Pain their aversion, pleasure their desire. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Antipathy; dislike; repugnance; disgust. See Dislike.

AVERT
A*vert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Averted; p. pr. & vb. n. Averting.]
Etym: [L. avertere; a, ab + vertere to turn: cf. OF. avertir. See
Verse, n.]

Defn: To turn aside, or away; as, to avert the eyes from an object;
to ward off, or prevent, the occurrence or effects of; as, how can
the danger be averted "To avert his ire." Milton.
When atheists and profane persons do hear of so many discordant and
contrary opinions in religion, it doth avert them from the church.
Bacon.
Till ardent prayer averts the public woe. Prior.

AVERT
A*vert", v. i.

Defn: To turn away. [Archaic]
Cold and averting from our neighbor's good. Thomson.

AVERTED
A*vert"ed, a.

Defn: Turned away, esp. as an expression of feeling; also, offended;
unpropitious.
Who scornful pass it with averted eye. Keble.

AVERTER
A*vert"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, averts.

AVERTIBLE
A*vert"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being averted; preventable.

AVERTIMENT
A*ver"ti*ment, n.

Defn: Advertisement. [Obs.]

AVES
A"ves, n. pl. Etym: [L., pl. of avis bird.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The class of Vertebrata that includes the birds.

Note: Aves, or birds, have a complete double circulation, oviparous,
reproduction, front limbs peculiarly modified as wings; and they bear
feathers. All existing birds have a horny beak, without teeth; but
some Mesozoic fossil birds (Odontornithes) had conical teeth inserted
in both jaws. The principal groups are: Carinatæ, including all
existing flying birds; Ratitæ, including the ostrich and allies, the
apteryx, and the extinct moas; Odontornithes, or fossil birds with
teeth.

Note: The ordinary birds are classified largely by the structure of
the beak and feet, which are in direct relating to their habits. See
Beak, Bird, Odontonithes.

AVESTA
A*ves"ta, n.

Defn: The Zoroastrian scriptures. See Zend-Avesta.

AVESTAN
A*ves"tan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Avesta or the language of the Avesta. -
-n.

Defn: The language of the Avesta; -- less properly called Zend.

AVIADO
A`vi*a"do, n. [Sp.]

Defn: One who works a mine with means provided by another. [Sp. Amer.
& Southwestern U. S.]

AVIAN
A"vi*an, a.

Defn: Of or instrument to birds.

AVIARY
A"vi*a*ry, n.; pl. Aviaries. Etym: [L. aviarium, fr. aviarius
pertaining to birds, fr. avis bird, akin to Gr, vi.]

Defn: A house, inclosure, large cage, or other place, for keeping
birds confined; a bird house.
Lincolnshire may be termed the aviary of England. Fuller.

AVIATE
A"vi*ate, v. i.  [imp. & p. p. Aviated; p. pr. & vb. n. Aviating.]

Defn: To fly, or navigate the air, in an aëroplane or heavier-than-
air flying machine. [Colloq.]

AVIATION
A`vi*a"tion, n.

Defn: The art or science of flying.

AVIATOR
A"vi*a`tor, n.
(a) An experimenter in aviation.
(b) A flying machine.

AVIATRESS; AVIATRIX
A"vi*a`tress, A`vi*a"trix, n.

Defn: A woman aviator.

AVICULA
A*vic"u*la, n. Etym: [L., small bird.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine bivalves, having a pearly interior, allied to
the pearl oyster; -- so called from a supposed resemblance of the
typical species to a bird.

AVICULAR
A*vic"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. avicula a small bird, dim. of avis bird.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a bird or to birds.

AVICULARIA
A*vic`u*la"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Avicular.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See prehensile processes on the cells of some Bryozoa, often
having the shape of a bird's bill.

AVICULTURE
A"vi*cul`ture, n. Etym: [L. avis bird + cultura culture.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Rearing and care of birds.

AVID
Av"id, a. Etym: [L. avidus, fr. av to long: cf. F. avide. See
Avarice.]

Defn: Longing eagerly for; eager; greedy. "Avid of gold, yet greedier
of renown." Southey.

AVIDIOUS
A*vid"i*ous, a.

Defn: Avid.

AVIDIOUSLY
A*vid"i*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: Eagerly; greedily.

AVIDITY
A*vid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. aviditas, fr. avidus: cf. F. avidité. See
Avid.]

Defn: Greediness; strong appetite; eagerness; intenseness of desire;
as, to eat with avidity.
His books were received and read with avidity. Milward.

AVIE
A*vie", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + vie.]

Defn: Emulously. [Obs.]

AVIETTE
A`vi*ette", n.

Defn: A heavier-than-air flying machine in which the motive power is
furnished solely by the aviator.

AVIFAUNA
A`vi*fau"na, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. avis bird + E. fauna.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The birds, or all the kinds of birds, inhabiting a region.

AVIGATO
Av`i*ga"to, n.

Defn: See Avocado.

AVIGNON BERRY
A`vignon" ber"ry. (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of the Rhamnus infectorius, eand of other species of
the same genus; -- so called from the city of Avignon, in France. It
is used by dyers and painters for coloring yellow. Called also French
berry.

AVILE
A*vile", v. t. Etym: [OF. aviler, F. avilir; a (L. ad) + vil vile.
See Vile.]

Defn: To abase or debase; to vilify; to depreciate. [Obs.]
Want makes us know the price of what we avile. B. Jonson.

AVIS
A*vis", n. Etym: [F. avis. See Advice.]

Defn: Advice; opinion; deliberation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVISE
A*vise", v. t. Etym: [F. aviser. See Advise, v. t.]

1. To look at; to view; to think of. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To advise; to counsel. [Obs.] Shak. To avise one's self, to
consider with one's self, to reflect, to deliberate. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Now therefore, if thou wilt enriched be, Avise thee well, and change
thy willful mood. Spenser.

AVISE
A*vise", v. i.

Defn: To consider; to reflect. [Obs.]

AVISEFUL
A*vise"ful, a.

Defn: Watchful; circumspect. [Obs.]
With sharp, aviseful eye. Spenser.

AVISELY
A*vise"ly, adv.

Defn: Advisedly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVISEMENT
A*vise"ment, n.

Defn: Advisement; observation; deliberation. [Obs.]

AVISION
A*vi"sion, n.

Defn: Vision. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVISO
A*vi"so, n. Etym: [Sp.]

1. Information; advice.

2. An advice boat, or dispatch boat.

AVOCADO
Av`o*ca"do, n. Etym: [Corrupted from the Mexican ahuacatl: cf. Sp.
aguacate, F. aguacaté, avocat, G. avogadobaum.]

Defn: The pulpy fruit of Persea gratissima, a tree of tropical
America. It is about the size and shape of a large pear; -- called
also avocado pear, alligator pear, midshipman's butter.

AVOCAT
Av`o*cat, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An advocate.

AVOCATE
Av"o*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. avocatus, p. p. of avocare; a, ab + vocare
to call. Cf. Avoke, and see Vocal, a.]

Defn: To call off or away; to withdraw; to transfer to another
tribunal. [Obs. or Archaic]
One who avocateth his mind from other occupations. Barrow.
He, at last, . . . avocated the cause to Rome. Robertson.

AVOCATION
Av`o*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. avocatio.]

1. A calling away; a diversion. [Obs. or Archaic]
Impulses to duty, and powerful avocations from sin. South.

2. That which calls one away from one's regular employment or
vocation.
Heaven is his vocation, and therefore he counts earthly employments
avocations. Fuller.
By the secular cares and avocations which accompany marriage the
clergy have been furnished with skill in common life. Atterbury.

Note: In this sense the word is applied to the smaller affairs of
life, or occasional calls which summon a person to leave his ordinary
or principal business. Avocation (in the singular) for vocation is
usually avoided by good writers.

3. pl.

Defn: Pursuits; duties; affairs which occupy one's time; usual
employment; vocation.
There are professions, among the men, no more favorable to these
studies than the common avocations of women. Richardson.
In a few hours, above thirty thousand men left his standard, and
returned to their ordinary avocations. Macaulay.
An irregularity and instability of purpose, which makes them choose
the wandering avocations of a shepherd, rather than the more fixed
pursuits of agriculture. Buckle.

AVOCATIVE
A*vo"ca*tive, a.

Defn: Calling off. [Obs.]

AVOCATIVE
A*vo"ca*tive, n.

Defn: That which calls aside; a dissuasive.

AVOCET; AVOSET
Av"o*cet, Av"o*set, n. Etym: [F. avocette: cf. It. avosetta, Sp.
avoceta.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A grallatorial bird, of the genus Recurvirostra; the scooper.
The bill is long and bend upward toward the tip. The American species
is R. Americana. [Written also avocette.]

AVOID
A*void" (, v. t. [p. & p. p. Avoided; p. pr. & vb. n. Avoiding.]
Etym: [OF. esvuidier, es (L. ex) + vuidier, voidier, to empty. See
Void, a.]

1. To empty. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. To emit or throw out; to void; as, to avoid excretions. [Obs.] Sir
T. Browne.

3. To quit or evacuate; to withdraw from. [Obs.]
Six of us only stayed, and the rest avoided the room. Bacon.

4. To make void; to annul or vacate; to refute.
How can these grants of the king's be avoided Spenser.

5. To keep away from; to keep clear of; to endeavor no to meet; to
shun; to abstain from; as, to avoid the company of gamesters.
What need a man forestall his date of grief. And run to meet what he
would most avoid Milton.
He carefully avoided every act which could goad them into open
hostility. Macaulay.

6. To get rid of. [Obs.] Shak.

7. (Pleading)

Defn: To defeat or evade; to invalidate. Thus, in a replication, the
plaintiff may deny the defendant's plea, or confess it, and avoid it
by stating new matter. Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- To escape; elude; evade; eschew.
 -- To Avoid, Shun. Avoid in its commonest sense means, to keep clear
of, an extension of the meaning, to withdraw one's self from. It
denotes care taken not to come near or in contact; as, to avoid
certain persons or places. Shun is a stronger term, implying more
prominently the idea of intention. The words may, however, in many
cases be interchanged.
No man can pray from his heart to be kept from temptation, if the
take no care of himself to avoid it. Mason.
So Chanticleer, who never saw a fox, Yet shunned him as a sailor
shuns the rocks. Dryden.

AVOID
A*void", v. i.

1. To retire; to withdraw. [Obs.]
David avoided out of his presence. 1 Sam. xviii. 11.

2. (Law)

Defn: To become void or vacant. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

AVOIDABLE
A*void"a*ble, a.

1. Capable of being vacated; liable to be annulled or made invalid;
voidable.
The charters were not avoidable for the king's nonage. Hale.

2. Capable of being avoided, shunned, or escaped.

AVOIDANCE
A*void"ance, n.

1. The act of annulling; annulment.

2. The act of becoming vacant, or the state of being vacant; --
specifically used for the state of a benefice becoming void by the
death, deprivation, or resignation of the incumbent.
Wolsey, . . . on every avoidance of St. Peter's chair, was sitting
down therein, when suddenly some one or other clapped in before him.
Fuller.

3. A dismissing or a quitting; removal; withdrawal.

4. The act of avoiding or shunning; keeping clear of. "The avoidance
of pain." Beattie.

5. The courts by which anything is carried off.
Avoidances and drainings of water. Bacon.

AVOIDER
A*void"er, n.

1. The person who carries anything away, or the vessel in which
things are carried away. Johnson.

2. One who avoids, shuns, or escapes.

AVOIDLESS
A*void"less, a.

Defn: Unavoidable; inevitable.

AVOIRDUPOIS
Av`oir*du*pois", n. & a. Etym: [OE. aver de peis, goods of weight,
where peis is fr. OF. peis weight, F. poids, L. pensum. See Aver, n.,
and Poise, n.]

1. Goods sold by weight. [Obs.]

2. Avoirdupois weight.

3. Weight; heaviness; as, a woman of much avoirdupois. [Colloq.]
Avoirdupois weight, a system of weights by which coarser commodities
are weighed, such as hay, grain, butter, sugar, tea.

Note: The standard Avoirdupois pound of the United States is
equivalent to the weight of 27.7015 cubic inches of distilled water
at 62º Fahrenheit, the barometer being at 30 inches, and the water
weighed in the air with brass weights. In this system of weights 16
drams make 1 ounce, 16 ounces 1 pound, 25 pounds 1 quarter, 4
quarters 1 hundred weight, and 20 hundred weight 1 ton. The above
pound contains 7,000 grains, or 453.54 grams, so that 1 pound
avoirdupois is equivalent to 1 31-144 pounds troy. (See Troy weight.)
Formerly, a hundred weight was reckoned at 112 pounds, the ton being
2,240 pounds (sometimes called a long ton).

AVOKE
A*voke", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Avocate.]

Defn: To call from or back again. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.

AVOLATE
Av"o*late, v. i. Etym: [L. avolare; a (ab) + volare to fly.]

Defn: To fly away; to escape; to exhale. [Obs.]

AVOLATION
Av`o*la"tion, n. Etym: [LL. avolatio.]

Defn: The act of flying; flight; evaporation. [Obs.]

AVOSET
Av"o*set, n.

Defn: Same as Avocet.

AVOUCH
A*vouch", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Avouched (p. pr. & vb. n. Avouching.]
Etym: [OF. avochier, LL. advocare to recognize the existence of a
thing, to advocate, fr. L. advocare to call to; ad + vocare to call.
Cf. Avow to declare, Advocate, and see Vouch, v. t.]

1. To appeal to; to cite or claim as authority. [Obs.]
They avouch many successions of authorities. Coke.

2. To maintain a just or true; to vouch for.
We might be disposed to question its authencity, it if were not
avouched by the full evidence. Milman.

3. To declare or assert positively and as matter of fact; to affirm
openly.
If this which he avouches does appear. Shak.
Such antiquities could have been avouched for the Irish. Spenser.

4. To acknowledge deliberately; to admit; to confess; to sanction.
Thou hast avouched the Lord this day to be thy God. Deut. xxvi. 17.

AVOUCH
A*vouch", n.

Defn: Evidence; declaration. [Obs.]
The sensible and true avouch Of mine own eyes. Shak.

AVOUCHABLE
A*vouch"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being avouched.

AVOUCHER
A*vouch"er, n.

Defn: One who avouches.

AVOUCHMENT
A*vouch"ment, n.

Defn: The act of avouching; positive declaration. [Obs.] Milton.

AVOUTRER
A*vou"trer, n.

Defn: See Advoutrer. [Obs.]

AVOUTRIE
A*vou"trie, n. Etym: [OF.]

Defn: Adultery. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVOW
A*vow", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Avowed (p. pr. & vb. n. Avowing.] Etym:
[F. avouver, fr. L. advocare to call to (whence the meanings, to call
upon as superior; recognize as lord, own, confess); ad + vocare to
call. See Advocate, Avouch.]

1. To declare openly, as something believed to be right; to own or
acknowledge frankly; as, a man avows his principles or his crimes.
Which I to be the of Israel's God Avow, and challenge Dagon to the
test. Milton.

2. (Law)

Defn: To acknowledge and justify, as an act done. See Avowry.
Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- To acknowledge; own; confess. See Confess.

AVOW
A*vow", n, Etym: [Cf. F. aveu.]

Defn: Avowal. [Obs.] Dryden.

AVOW
A*vow", v. t. & i. Etym: [OF. avouer, fr. LL. votare to vow, fr. L.
votun. See Vote, n.]

Defn: To bind, or to devote, by a vow. [Obs.] Wyclif.

AVOW
A*vow", n.

Defn: A vow or determination. [Archaic]

AVOWABLE
A*vow"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being avowed, or openly acknowledged, with
confidence. Donne.

AVOWAL
A*vow"al, n.

Defn: An open declaration; frank acknowledgment; as, an avowal of
such principles. Hume.

AVOWANCE
A*vow"ance, n.

1. Act of avowing; avowal.

2. Upholding; defense; vindication. [Obs.]
Can my avowance of king-murdering be collected from anything here
written by me Fuller.

AVOWANT
A*vow"ant, n. (Law)

Defn: The defendant in replevin, who avows the distress of the goods,
and justifies the taking. Cowell.

AVOWED
A*vowed", a.

Defn: Openly acknowledged or declared; admitted.
 -- A*vow"ed*ly (, adv.

AVOWEE
A*vow`ee", n. Etym: [F. avoué. Cf. Advowee, Advocate, n.]

Defn: The person who has a right to present to a benefice; the
patron; an advowee. See Advowson.

AVOWER
A*vow"er, n.

Defn: One who avows or asserts.

AVOWRY
A*vow"ry, n. Etym: [OE. avouerie protection, authority, OF. avouerie.
See Avow to declare.]

1. An advocate; a patron; a patron saint. [Obs.]
Let God alone be our avowry. Latimer.

2. The act of the distrainer of goods, who, in an action of replevin,
avows and justifies the taking in his own right. Blackstone.

Note: When an action of replevin is brought, the distrainer either
makes avowry, that is, avours taking the distress in his own right,
or the right of his wife, and states the reason if it, as for arrears
of rent, damage done, or the like; or makes cognizance, that is,
acknowledges the taking, but justifies in an another's right, as his
bailiff or servant.

AVOWTRY
A*vow"try, v. t.

Defn: Adultery. See Advoutry.

AVOYER
A*voy"er, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton of
Switzerland. [Obs.]

AVULSE
A*vulse", v. t. Etym: [L. avulsus, p. p. of avellere to tear off; a
(ab) + vellere to pluck.]

Defn: To pluck or pull off. Shenstone.

AVULSION
A*vul"sion, n. Etym: [L. avulsio.]

1. A tearing asunder; a forcible separation.
The avulsion of two polished superficies. Locke.

2. A fragment torn off. J. Barlow.

3. (Law)

Defn: The sudden removal of lands or soil from the estate of one man
to that of another by an inundation or a current, or by a sudden
change in the course of a river by which a part of the estate of one
man is cut off and joined to the estate of another. The property in
the part thus separated, or cut off, continues in the original owner.
Wharton. Burrill.

AVUNCULAR
A*vun"cu*lar, a. Etym: [L. avunculus uncle.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an uncle.
In these rare instances, the law of pedigree, whether direct or
avuncular, gives way. I. Taylor.

AWAIT
A*wait", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Awaited; p. pr. & vb. n. Awaiting.]
Etym: [OF. awaitier, agaitier; (L. ad) + waitier, gaitier to watch,
F. guetter. See Wait.]

1. To watch for; to look out for. [Obs.]

2. To wait on, serve, or attend. [Obs.]

3. To wait for; to stay for; to expect. See Expect.
Betwixt these rocky pillars Gabriel sat, Chief of the angelic guards,
awaiting night. Milton.

4. To be in store for; to be ready or in waiting for; as, a glorious
reward awaits the good.
O Eve, some farther change awaits us night. Milton.

AWAIT
A*wait", v. i.

1. To watch. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To wait (on or upon). [Obs.]

3. To wait; to stay in waiting. Darwin.

AWAIT
A*wait", n.

Defn: A waiting for; ambush; watch; watching; heed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AWAKE
A*wake", v. t. [imp. Awoke, Awaked (; p. p. Awaked; (Obs.) Awaken,
Awoken; p. pr. & vb. n. Awaking. The form Awoke is sometimes used as
a p. p.] Etym: [AS. awæcnan, v. i. (imp. aw), and awacian, v. i.
(imp. awacode). See Awaken, Wake.]

1. To rouse from sleep.; to wake; to awaken.
Where morning's earliest ray . . . awake her. Tennyson.
And his disciples came to him, and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us;
we perish. Matt. viii. 25.

2. To rouse from a state resembling sleep, as from death, stupidity.,
or inaction; to put into action; to give new life to; to stir up; as,
to awake the dead; to awake the dormant faculties.
I was soon awaked from this disagreeable reverie. Goldsmith.
It way awake my bounty further. Shak.
No sunny gleam awakes the trees. Keble.

AWAKE
A*wake", v. i.

Defn: To cease to sleep; to come out of a state of natural sleep;
and, figuratively, out of a state resembling sleep, as inaction or
death.
The national spirit again awoke. Freeman.
Awake to righteousness, and sin not. 1 Cor. xv. 34.

AWAKE
A*wake", a. Etym: [From awaken, old p. p. of awake.]

Defn: Not sleeping or lethargic; roused from sleep; in a state of
vigilance or action.
Before whom awake I stood. Milton.
She still beheld, Now wide awake, the vision of her sleep. Keats.
He was awake to the danger. Froude.

AWAKEN
A*wak"en, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Awakened (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Awakening.] Etym: [OE. awakenen, awaknen, AS. awæcnan, awæcnian, v.
i.; pref. on- + wæcnan to wake. Cf. Awake, v. t.]

Defn: To rouse from sleep or torpor; to awake; to wake.
[He] is dispatched Already to awaken whom thou nam'st. Cowper.
Their consciences are thoroughly awakened. Tillotson.

Syn.
 -- To arouse; excite; stir up; call forth.

AWAKENER
A*wak"en*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, awakens.

AWAKENING
A*wak"en*ing, a.

Defn: Rousing from sleep, in a natural or a figurative sense; rousing
into activity; exciting; as, the awakening city; an awakening
discourse; the awakening dawn.
 -- A*wak"en*ing*ly, adv.

AWAKENING
A*wak"en*ing, n.

Defn: The act of awaking, or ceasing to sleep. Specifically: A
revival of religion, or more general attention to religious matters
than usual.

AWAKENMENT
A*wak"en*ment, n.

Defn: An awakening. [R.]

AWANTING
A*want"ing, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + wanting.]

Defn: Missing; wanting. [Prov. Scot. & Eng.] Sir W. Hamilton.

AWARD
A*ward", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Awarded; p. pr. & vb. n. Awarding.]
Etym: [OF. eswarder to look at, consider, decide, judge; es (L. ex) +
warder, garder, to observe, take heed, keep, fr. OHG. wart to watch,
guard. See Ward.]

Defn: To give by sentence or judicial determination; to assign or
apportion, after careful regard to the nature of the case; to
adjudge; as, the arbitrators awarded damages to the complainant.
To review The wrongful sentence, and award a new. Dryden.

AWARD
A*ward", v. i.

Defn: To determine; to make an ~.

AWARD
A*ward", n. Etym: [Cf. OF. award, awart, esgart. See Award, v. t.]

1. A judgment, sentence, or final decision. Specifically: The
decision of arbitrators in a case submitted."Impatient for the
award." Cowper.
An award had been given against. Gilpin.

2. The paper containing the decision of arbitrators; that which is
warded. Bouvier.

AWARDER
A*ward"er, n.

Defn: One who awards, or assigns by sentence or judicial
determination; a judge.

AWARE
A*ware", a. Etym: [OE. iwar, AS. gewær, fr. wær wary. The pref. ge-
orig. meant together, completely. Wary.]

1. Watchful; vigilant or on one's guard against danger or difficulty.

2. Apprised; informed; cognizant; conscious; as, he was aware of the
enemy's designs.
Aware of nothing arduous in a task They never undertook. Cowper.

AWARN
A*warn", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + warn, AS. gewarnian. See Warn, v.
t.]

Defn: To warn. [Obs.] Spenser.

AWASH
A*wash", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + wash.]

Defn: Washed by the waves or tide; -- said of a rock or strip of
shore, or (Naut.) of an anchor, etc., when flush with the surface of
the water, so that the waves break over it.

AWAY
A*way", adv. Etym: [AS. aweg, anweg, onweg; on on + weg way.]

1. From a place; hence.
The sound is going away. Shak.
Have me away, for I am sore wounded. 2 Chron. xxxv. 23.

2. Absent; gone; at a distance; as, the master is away from home.

3. Aside; off; in another direction.
The axis of rotation is inclined away from the sun. Lockyer.

4. From a state or condition of being; out of existence.
Be near me when I fade away. Tennyson.

5. By ellipsis of the verb, equivalent to an imperative: Go or come
~; begone; take ~.
And the Lord said . . . Away, get thee down. Exod. xix. 24.

6. On; in continuance; without intermission or delay; as, sing away.
[Colloq.]

Note: It is much used in phrases signifying moving or going from; as,
go away, run away, etc.; all signifying departure, or separation to a
distance. Sometimes without the verb; as, whither away so fast "Love
hath wings, and will away." Waller. It serves to modify the sense of
certain verbs by adding that of removal, loss, parting with, etc.;
as, to throw away; to trifle away; to squander away, etc. Sometimes
it has merely an intensive force; as, to blaze away. Away with, bear,
abide. [Obs. or Archaic] "The calling of assemblies, I can not away
with." (Isa. i. 13
), i. e., "I can not bear or endure [it]." -- Away with one,
signifies, take him away. "Away with, crucify him." John xix. 15.
 -- To make away with. (a) To kill or destroy. (b) To carry off.

AWAY-GOING
A*way"-go"ing, a. (Law)

Defn: Sown during the last years of a tenancy, but not ripe until
after its expiration; -- said of crops. Wharton.

AWAYWARD
A*way"ward, adv.

Defn: Turned away; away. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AWE
Awe, n. Etym: [OE. a, aghe, fr. Icel. agi; akin to AS. ege, , Goth.
agis, Dan. ave chastisement, fear, Gr. ail. Ugly.]

1. Dread; great fear mingled with respect. [Obs. or Obsolescent]
His frown was full of terror, and his voice Shook the delinquent with
such fits of awe. Cowper.

2. The emotion inspired by something dreadful and sublime; an
undefined sense of the dreadful and the sublime; reverential fear, or
solemn wonder; profound reverence.
There is an awe in mortals' joy, A deep mysterious fear. Keble.
To tame the pride of that power which held the Continent in awe.
Macaulay.
The solitude of the desert, or the loftiness of the mountain, may
fill the mind with awe -- the sense of our own littleness in some
greater presence or power. C. J. Smith.
To stand in awe of, to fear greatly; to reverence profoundly.

Syn.
 -- See Reverence.

AWE
Awe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Awed (p. pr. & vb. n. Awing.]

Defn: To strike with fear and reverence; to inspire with awe; to
control by inspiring dread.
That same eye whose bend doth awe the world. Shak.
His solemn and pathetic exhortation awed and melted the bystanders.
Macaulay.

AWEARIED
A*wea"ried, p. p.

Defn: Wearied. [Poetic]

AWEARY
A*wea"ry, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + weary.]

Defn: Weary. [Poetic] "I begin to be aweary of thee." Shak.

AWEATHER
A*weath"er, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + weather.] (Naut.)

Defn: On the weather side, or toward the wind; in the direction from
which the wind blows; -- opposed to alee; as, helm aweather ! Totten.

AWEIGH
A*weigh", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + weigh.] (Naut.)

Defn: Just drawn out of the ground, and hanging perpendicularly;
atrip; -- said of the anchor. Totten.

AWELESS
Awe"less, a.

Defn: See Awless.

AWESOME
Awe"some, a.

1. Causing awe; appalling; awful; as, an awesome sight. Wright.

2. Expressive of awe or terror.
An awesome glance up at the auld castle. Sir W. Scott.

AWESOMENESS
Awe"some*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being awesome.

AWE-STRICKEN
Awe"-strick`en, a.

Defn: Awe-struck.

AWE-STRUCK
Awe"-struck`, a.

Defn: Struck with awe. Milton.

AWFUL
Aw"ful, a.

1. Oppressing with fear or horror; appalling; terrible; as, an awful
scene. "The hour of Nature's awful throes." Hemans.

2. Inspiring awe; filling with profound reverence, or with fear and
admiration; fitted to inspire reverential fear; profoundly
impressive.
Heaven's awful Monarch. Milton.

3. Struck or filled with awe; terror-stricken. [Obs.]
A weak and awful reverence for antiquity. I. Watts.

4. Worshipful; reverential; law-abiding. [Obs.]
Thrust from the company of awful men. Shak.

5. Frightful; exceedingly bad; great; -- applied intensively; as, an
awful bonnet; an awful boaster. [Slang]

Syn.
 -- See Frightful.

AWFULLY
Aw"ful*ly, adv.

1. In an awful manner; in a manner to fill with terror or awe;
fearfully; reverently.

2. Very; excessively. [Slang]

AWFULNESS
Aw"ful*ness, n.

1. The quality of striking with awe, or with reverence; dreadfulness;
solemnity; as, the awfulness of this sacred place.
The awfulness of grandeur. Johnson.

2. The state of being struck with awe; a spirit of solemnity;
profound reverence. [Obs.]
Producing in us reverence and awfulness. Jer. Taylor.

AWHAPE
A*whape", v. t. Etym: [Cf. whap blow.]

Defn: To confound; to terrify; to amaze. [Obs.] Spenser.

AWHILE
A*while", adv. Etym: [Adj. a + while time, interval.]

Defn: For a while; for some time; for a short time.

AWING
A*wing", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + wing.]

Defn: On the wing; flying; fluttering. Wallace.

AWK
Awk, a. Etym: [OE. auk, awk (properly) turned away; (hence) contrary,
wrong, from Icel. öfigr, öfugr, afigr, turning the wrong way, fr. af
off, away; cf. OHG. abuh, Skr. apac turned away, fr. apa off, away +
a root ak, ak, to bend, from which come also E. angle, anchor.]

1. Odd; out of order; perverse. [Obs.]

2. Wrong, or not commonly used; clumsy; sinister; as, the awk end of
a rod (the but end). [Obs.] Golding.

3. Clumsy in performance or manners; unhandy; not dexterous; awkward.
[Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

AWK
Awk, adv.

Defn: Perversely; in the wrong way. L'Estrange.

AWKLY
Awk"ly, adv.

1. In an unlucky (left-handed) or perverse manner. [Obs.] Holland.

2. Awkwardly. [Obs.] Fuller.

AWKWARD
Awk"ward, a. Etym: [Awk + -ward.]

1. Wanting dexterity in the use of the hands, or of instruments; not
dexterous; without skill; clumsy; wanting ease, grace, or
effectiveness in movement; ungraceful; as, he was awkward at a trick;
an awkward boy.
And dropped an awkward courtesy. Dryden.

2. Not easily managed or effected; embarrassing.
A long and awkward process. Macaulay.
An awkward affair is one that has gone wrong, and is difficult to
adjust. C. J. Smith.

3. Perverse; adverse; untoward. [Obs.] "Awkward casualties." "Awkward
wind." Shak.
O blind guides, which being of an awkward religion, do strain out a
gnat, and swallow up a cancel. Udall.

Syn.
 -- Ungainly; unhandy; clownish; lubberly; gawky; maladroit;
bungling; inelegant; ungraceful; unbecoming.
 -- Awkward, Clumsy, Uncouth. Awkward has a special reference to
outward deportment. A man is clumsy in his whole person, he is
awkward in his gait and the movement of his limbs. Clumsiness is seen
at the first view. Awkwardness is discovered only when a person
begins to move. Hence the expressions, a clumsy appearance, and an
awkward manner. When we speak figuratively of an awkward excuse, we
think of a want of ease and grace in making it; when we speak of a
clumsy excuse, we think of the whole thing as coarse and stupid. We
apply the term uncouth most frequently to that which results from the
want of instruction or training; as, uncouth manners; uncouth
language.
 -- Awk"ward*ly (, adv.
 -- Awk"ward*ness, n.

AWKWARD SQUAD
Awk"ward squad. (Mil.)

Defn: A squad of inapt recruits assembled for special drill.

AWL
Awl, n. Etym: [OE. aul, awel, al, AS. , awel; akin to Icel. alr, OHG.
ala, G. ahle, Lith. yla, Skr. ara.]

Defn: A pointed instrument for piercing small holes, as in leather or
wood; used by shoemakers, saddlers, cabinetmakers, etc. The blade is
differently shaped and pointed for different uses, as in the brad
awl, saddler's awl, shoemaker's awl, etc.

AWLESS
Aw"less, a.

1. Wanting reverence; void of respectful fear. "Awless insolence."
Dryden.

2. Inspiring no awe. [Obs.] "The awless throne." Shak. [Written also
aweless]

AWLESSNESS
Aw"less*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being awless.

AWL-SHAPED
Awl"-shaped`, a.

1. Shaped like an awl.

2. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Subulate. See Subulate. Gray.

AWLWORT
Awl"wort`, n. Etym: [Awl + wort.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Subularia aquatica), with awl-shaped leaves.

AWM
Awm (m), n.

Defn: See Aam.

AWN
Awn, n. Etym: [OE. awn, agune, from Icel. ögn, pl. agnir; akin to Sw.
agn, Dan. avne, Goth. ahana, OHG. agana, G. agen, ahne, chaff, Gr.
egla; prob. from same root as E. acute. See 3d Ear. (Bot.)

Defn: The bristle or beard of barley, oats, grasses, etc., or any
similar bristlelike appendage; arista. Gray.

AWNED
Awned, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Furnished with an awn, or long bristle-shaped tip; bearded.
Gray.

AWNING
Awn"ing, n. Etym: [Origin uncertain: cf. F. auvent awing, or Pers.
awan, awang, anything suspended, or LG. havening a place sheltered
from wind and weather, E. haven.]

1. A rooflike cover, usually of canvas, extended over or before any
place as a shelter from the sun, rain, or wind.

2. (Naut.) That part of the poop deck which is continued forward
beyond the bulkhead of the cabin.

AWNINGED
Awn"inged, a.

Defn: Furnished with an awning.

AWNLESS
Awn"less, a.

Defn: Without awns or beard.

AWNY
Awn"y, a.

Defn: Having awns; bearded.

AWORK
A*work", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + work.]

Defn: At work; in action. "Set awork." Shak.

AWORKING
A*work"ing, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + working.]

Defn: At work; in action. [Archaic or Colloq.] Spenser.

AWREAK; AWREKE
A*wreak", A*wreke",, v. t. & i.

Defn: To avenge. [Obs.] See Wreak.

AWRONG
A*wrong", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + wrong.]

Defn: Wrongly. Ford.

AWRY
A*wry", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + wry.]

1. Turned or twisted toward one side; not in a straight or true
direction, or position; out of the right course; distorted;
obliquely; asquint; with oblique vision; as, to glance awry. "Your
crown's awry." Shak.
Blows them transverse, ten thousand leagues awry. Into the devious
air. Milton.

2. Aside from the line of truth, or right reason; unreasonable or
unreasonably; perverse or perversely.
Or by her charms Draws him awry, enslaved. Milton.
Nothing more awry from the law of God and nature than that a woman
should give laws to men. Milton.

AWSOME
Aw"some, a.

Defn: Same as Awesome.

AX; AXE
Ax, Axe,, n. Etym: [OE. ax, axe, AS. eax, æx, acas; akin to D. akse,
OS. accus, OHG. acchus, G. axt, Icel. öx, öxi, Sw. yxe, Dan. ökse,
Goth. aqizi, Gr. , L. ascia; not akin to E. acute.]

Defn: A tool or instrument of steel, or of iron with a steel edge or
blade, for felling trees, chopping and splitting wood, hewing timber,
etc. It is wielded by a wooden helve or handle, so fixed in a socket
or eye as to be in the same plane with the blade. The broadax, or
carpenter's ax, is an ax for hewing timber, made heavier than the
chopping ax, and with a broader and thinner blade and a shorter
handle.

Note: The ancient battle-ax had sometimes a double edge.

Note: The word is used adjectively or in combination; as, axhead or
ax head; ax helve; ax handle; ax shaft; ax-shaped; axlike.

Note: This word was originally spelt with e, axe; and so also was
nearly every corresponding word of one syllable: as, flaxe, taxe,
waxe, sixe, mixe, pixe, oxe, fluxe, etc. This superfluous e is not
dropped; so that, in more than a hundred words ending in x, no one
thinks of retaining the e except in axe. Analogy requires its
exclusion here.

Note: "The spelling ax is better on every ground, of etymology,
phonology, and analogy, than axe, which has of late become
prevalent." New English Dict. (Murray).

AX
Ax, v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. axien and asken. See Ask.]

Defn: To ask; to inquire or inquire of.

Note: This word is from Saxon, and is as old as the English language.
Formerly it was in good use, but now is regarded as a vulgarism. It
is still dialectic in England, and is sometimes heard among the
uneducated in the United States. "And Pilate axide him, Art thou king
of Jewis" "Or if he axea fish." Wyclif. 'bdThe king axed after your
Grace's welfare." Pegge.

AXAL
Ax"al, a.

Defn: [See Axial.] [R.]

AXE; AXEMAN
Axe, Axe"man, etc.

Defn: See Ax, Axman.

AXIAL
Ax"i*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to an axis; of the nature of, or resembling, an
axis; around an axis.
To take on an axial, and not an equatorial, direction. Nichol.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Belonging to the axis of the body; as, the axial skeleton; or
to the axis of any appendage or organ; as, the axial bones. Axial
line (Magnetism), the line taken by the magnetic force in passing
from one pole of a horseshoe magnet to the other. Faraday.

AXIALLY
Ax"i*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In relation to, or in a line with, an axis; in the axial
(magnetic) line.

AXIL
Ax"il, n. Etym: [L. axilla. Cf. Axle.] (Bot.)

Defn: The angle or point of divergence between the upper side of a
branch, leaf, or petiole, and the stem or branch from which it
springs. Gray.

AXILE
Ax"ile, a.

Defn: Situated in the axis of anything; as an embryo which lies in
the axis of a seed. Gray.

AXILLA
Ax*il"la, n.; pl. Axillae. Etym: [L.] (Anat.)

Defn: The armpit, or the cavity beneath the junction of the arm and
shoulder.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An axil.

AXILLAR
Ax"il*lar, a.

Defn: Axillary.

AXILLARIES; AXILLARS
Ax"il*la*ries, Ax"il*lars, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feathers connecting the under surface of the wing and the body,
and concealed by the closed wing.

AXILLARY
Ax"il*la*ry, a. Etym: [See Axil.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the axilla or armpit; as, axillary gland,
artery, nerve.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Situated in, or rising from, an axil; of or pertaining to an
axil. "Axillary buds." Gray.

AXINITE
Ax"i*nite, n. Etym: [Named in allusion to the form of the crystals,
fr. Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A borosilicate of alumina, iron, and lime, commonly found in
glassy, brown crystals with acute edges.

AXINOMANCY
Ax*in"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [L. axinomantia, Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: A species of divination, by means of an ax or hatchet.

AXIOM
Ax"i*om, n. Etym: [L. axioma, Gr. that which is thought worthy, that
which is assumed, a basis of demonstration, a principle, fr. to think
worthy, fr. worthy, weighing as much as; cf. to lead, drive, also to
weigh so much: cf F. axiome. See Agent, a.]

1. (Logic & Math.)

Defn: A self-evident and necessary truth, or a proposition whose
truth is so evident as first sight that no reasoning or demonstration
can make it plainer; a proposition which it is necessary to take for
granted; as, "The whole is greater than a part;" "A thing can not, at
the same time, be and not be."

2. An established principle in some art or science, which, though not
a necessary truth, is universally received; as, the axioms of
political economy.

Syn.
 -- Axiom, Maxim, Aphorism, Adage. An axiom is a self-evident truth
which is taken for granted as the basis of reasoning. A maxim is a
guiding principle sanctioned by experience, and relating especially
to the practical concerns of life. An aphorism is a short sentence
pithily expressing some valuable and general truth or sentiment. An
adage is a saying of long-established authority and of universal
application.

AXIOMATIC; AXIOMATICAL
Ax`i*o*mat"ic, Ax`i*o*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an axiom; having the nature of an axiom;
self-evident; characterized by axioms. "Axiomatical truth." Johnson.
The stores of axiomatic wisdom. I. Taylor.

AXIOMATICALLY
Ax`i*o*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By the use of axioms; in the form of an axiom.

AXIS
Ax"is, n. Etym: [L.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The spotted deer (Cervus axis or Axis maculata) of India, where
it is called hog deer and parrah (Moorish name).

AXIS
Ax"is, n.; pl. Axes. Etym: [L. axis axis, axle. See Axle.]

Defn: A straight line, real or imaginary, passing through a body, on
which it revolves, or may be supposed to revolve; a line passing
through a body or system around which the parts are symmetrically
arranged.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A straight line with respect to which the different parts of a
magnitude are symmetrically arranged; as, the axis of a cylinder, i.
e., the axis of a cone, that is, the straight line joining the vertex
and the center of the base; the axis of a circle, any straight line
passing through the center.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The stem; the central part, or longitudinal support, on which
organs or parts are arranged; the central line of any body. Gray.

4. (Anat.)
(a) The second vertebra of the neck, or vertebra dentata.
(b) Also used of the body only of the vertebra, which is prolonged
anteriorly within the foramen of the first vertebra or atlas, so as
to form the odontoid process or peg which serves as a pivot for the
atlas and head to turn upon.

5. (Crystallog.)

Defn: One of several imaginary lines, assumed in describing the
position of the planes by which a crystal is bounded.

6. (Fine Arts)

Defn: The primary of secondary central line of any design. Anticlinal
axis (Geol.), a line or ridge from which the strata slope downward on
the two opposite sides.
 -- Synclinal axis, a line from which the strata slope upward in
opposite directions, so as to form a valley.
 -- Axis cylinder (Anat.), the neuraxis or essential, central
substance of a nerve fiber; -- called also axis band, axial fiber,
and cylinder axis.
 -- Axis in peritrochio, the wheel and axle, one of the mechanical
powers.
 -- Axis of a curve (Geom.), a straight line which bisects a system
of parallel chords of a curve; called a principal axis, when cutting
them at right angles, in which case it divides the curve into two
symmetrical portions, as in the parabola, which has one such axis,
the ellipse, which has two, or the circle, which has an infinite
number. The two axes of the ellipse are the major axis and the minor
axis, and the two axes of the hyperbola are the transverse axis and
the conjugate axis.
 -- Axis of a lens, the straight line passing through its center and
perpendicular to its surfaces.
 -- Axis of a telescope or microscope, the straight line with which
coincide the axes of the several lenses which compose it.
 -- Axes of coördinates in a plane, to straight lines intersecting
each other, to which points are referred for the purpose of
determining their relative position: they are either rectangular or
oblique.
 -- Axes of coördinates in space, the three straight lines in which
the coördinate planes intersect each other.
 -- Axis of a balance, that line about which it turns.
 -- Axis of oscillation, of a pendulum, a right line passing through
the center about which it vibrates, and perpendicular to the plane of
vibration.
 -- Axis of polarization, the central line around which the prismatic
rings or curves are arranged. Brewster.
 -- Axis of revolution (Descriptive Geom.), a straight line about
which some line or plane is revolved, so that the several points of
the line or plane shall describe circles with their centers in the
fixed line, and their planes perpendicular to it, the line describing
a surface of revolution, and the plane a solid of revolution.
 -- Axis of symmetry (Geom.), any line in a plane figure which
divides the figure into two such parts that one part, when folded
over along the axis, shall coincide with the other part.
 -- Axis of the equator, ecliptic, horizon (or other circle
considered with reference to the sphere on which it lies), the
diameter of the sphere which is perpendicular to the plane of the
circle. Hutton.
 -- Axis of the Ionic capital (Arch.), a line passing perpendicularly
through the middle of the eye of the volute.
 -- Neutral axis (Mech.), the line of demarcation between the
horizontal elastic forces of tension and compression, exerted by the
fibers in any cross section of a girder.
 -- Optic axis of a crystal, the direction in which a ray of
transmitted light suffers no double refraction. All crystals, not of
the isometric system, are either uniaxial or biaxial.
 -- Optic axis, Visual axis (Opt.), the straight line passing through
the center of the pupil, and perpendicular to the surface of the eye.
 -- Radical axis of two circles (Geom.), the straight line
perpendicular to the line joining their centers and such that the
tangents from any point of it to the two circles shall be equal to
each other.
 -- Spiral axis (Arch.), the axis of a twisted column drawn spirally
in order to trace the circumvolutions without.
 -- Axis of abscissas and Axis of ordinates. See Abscissa.

AXLE
Ax"le, n. Etym: [OE. axel, exel, shoulder, AS. ; akin to AS. eax
axle, Sw. & Dan. axel shoulder, ~, G. achse axle, achsel shoulder, L.
axis axle, Gr. aksha, L. axilla shoulder joint: cf. F. essieu, axle,
OF. aissel, fr. dim. of L. axis. Axis.]

1. The pin or spindle on which a wheel revolves, or which revolves
with a wheel.

2. A transverse bar or shaft connecting the opposite wheels of a car
or carriage; an axletree.

3. An axis; as, the sun's axle.
Had from her axle torn The steadfast earth. Milton.

Note: Railway axles are called leading and trailing from their
position in the front or in the rear of a car or truck respectively.

AXLE BOX
Ax"le box`.

1. A bushing in the hub of a wheel, through which the axle passes.

2. The journal box of a rotating axle, especially a railway axle.

Note: In railway construction, the axle guard, or pedestal, with the
superincumbent weight, rests on the top of the box (usually with a
spring intervening), and holds it in place by flanges. The box rests
upon the journal bearing and key, which intervene between the inner
top of the box and the axle.

AXLED
Ax"led, a.

Defn: Having an axle; -- used in composition.
Merlin's agate-axled car. T. Warton.

AXLE GUARD
Ax"le guard`.

Defn: The part of the framing of a railway car or truck, by which an
axle box is held laterally, and in which it may move vertically; --
also called a jaw in the United States, and a housing in England.

AXLETREE
Ax"le*tree`, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. öxultr.]

1. A bar or beam of wood or iron, connecting the opposite wheels of a
carriage, on the ends of which the wheels revolve.

2. A spindle or axle of a wheel. [Obs.]

AXMAN
Ax"man, n.; pl. Axmen (.

Defn: One who wields an ax.

AXMINSTER
Ax"min`ster, n.

Defn: An Axminster carpet, an imitation Turkey carpet, noted for its
thick and soft pile; -- so called from Axminster, Eng.

AXMINSTER; AXMINSTER CARPET
Ax"min*ster, n., or Axminster carpet .
 (a) [More fully chenille Axminster.] A variety of Turkey carpet,
woven by machine or, when more than 27 inches wide, on a hand loom,
and consisting of strips of worsted chenille so colored as to produce
a pattern on a stout jute backing. It has a fine soft pile. So called
from Axminster, England, where it was formerly (1755 -- 1835) made.
 (b) A similar but cheaper machine-made carpet, resembling moquette
in construction and appearance, but finer and of better material.

AXOLOTL
Ax"o*lotl, n. Etym: [The native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An amphibian of the salamander tribe found in the elevated
lakes of Mexico; the siredon.

Note: When it breeds in captivity the young develop into true
salamanders of the genus Amblystoma. This also occurs naturally under
favorable conditions, in its native localities; although it commonly
lives and breeds in a larval state, with persistent external gills.
See Siredon.

AXSTONE
Ax"stone`, n. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of jade. It is used by some savages, particularly the
natives of the South Sea Islands, for making axes or hatchets.

AXTREE
Ax"tree, n.

Defn: Axle or axletree. [Obs.] Drayton.

AXUNGE
Ax"unge, n. Etym: [F. axonge, L. axungia; axis wheel + ungere to
grease.]

Defn: Fat; grease; esp. the fat of pigs or geese; usually (Pharm.),
lard prepared for medical use.

AY
Ay, interj.

Defn: Ah! alas! "Ay me! I fondly dream `Had ye been there.'" Milton.

AY
Ay, adv.

Defn: Same as Aye.

AYAH
A"yah, n. Etym: [Pg. aia, akin to Sp. aya a governess, ayo a tutor.]

Defn: A native nurse for children; also, a lady's maid. [India]

AYE; AY
Aye, Ay, adv. Etym: [Perh. a modification of yea, or from the
interjection of admiration or astonishment, OE. ei, ey, why, hey, ay,
well, ah, ha. Cf. MHG. & G. ei, Dan. ej. Or perh. akin to aye ever.]

Defn: Yes; yea; -- a word expressing assent, or an affirmative answer
to a question. It is much used in viva voce voting in legislative
bodies, etc.

Note: This word is written I in the early editions of Shakespeare and
other old writers.

AYE
Aye, n.

Defn: An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, "To
call for the ayes and noes;" "The ayes have it."

AYE; AY
Aye, Ay, adv. Etym: [Icel. ei, ey; akin to AS. a, awa, always, Goth.
aiws an age, Icel. æfi, OHG, , L. aevum, Gr. je, Skr. course. Age,
v., Either, a., Or, conj.]

Defn: Always; ever; continually; for an indefinite time.
For his mercies aye endure. Milton.
For aye, always; forever; eternally.

AYE-AYE
Aye"-aye`, n. Etym: [From the native name, prob. from its cry.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A singular nocturnal quadruped, allied to the lemurs, found in
Madagascar (Cheiromys Madagascariensis), remarkable for its long
fingers, sharp nails, and rodent-like incisor teeth.

AYEGREEN
Aye"green`, n. Etym: [Aye ever + green.] (Bot.)

Defn: The houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum). Halliwell.

AYEN; AYEIN; AYEINS
A*yen", A*yein", A*yeins", adv. & prep. Etym: [OE. Again.]

Defn: Again; back against. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AYENWARD
A*yen"ward, adv.

Defn: Backward. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AYLE
Ayle, n. Etym: [OE. ayel, aiel, OF. aiol, aiel, F. aïeul, a dim. of
L. avus grandfather.]

Defn: A grandfather. [Obs.] Writ of Ayle, an ancient English writ
which lay against a stranger who had dispossessed the demandant of
land of which his grandfather died seized.

AYME
Ay"me`, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ahi interj.]

Defn: The utterance of the ejaculation "Ay me !" [Obs.] See Ay,
interj. "Aymees and hearty heigh-hoes." J. Fletcher.

AYOND
A*yond", prep. & adv.

Defn: Beyond. [North of Eng.]

AYONT
A*yont", prep. & adv.

Defn: Beyond. [Scot.]

AYRIE; AYRY
A"y*rie, A"y*ry, n.

Defn: See Aerie. Drayton.

AYRSHIRE
Ayr"shire, n. (Agric.)

Defn: One of a superior breed of cattle from Ayrshire, Scotland.
Ayrshires are notable for the quantity and quality of their milk.

AYUNTAMIENTO
A*yun`ta*mi*en"to, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. OSp. ayuntar to join.]

Defn: In Spain and Spanish America, a corporation or body of
magistrates in cities and towns, corresponding to mayor and aldermen.

AZALEA
A*za"le*a, n.; pl. Azaleas. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of showy flowering shrubs, mostly natives of China or
of North America; false honeysuckle. The genus is scarcely distinct
from Rhododendron.

AZAROLE
Az"a*role, n. Etym: [F. azerole, the name of the fruit, fr. Ar. az-
zo'r: cf. It. azzeruolo, Sp. acerolo.] (Bot.)

Defn: The Neapolitan medlar (Cratægus azarolus), a shrub of southern
Europe; also, its fruit.

AZEDARACH
A*zed"a*rach, n. Etym: [F. azédarac, Sp. acederaque, Pers.
azaddirakht noble tree.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A handsome Asiatic tree (Melia azedarach), common in the
southern United States; -- called also, Pride of India, Pride of
China, and Bead tree.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The bark of the roots of the azedarach, used as a cathartic and
emetic.

AZIMUTH
Az"i*muth, n. Etym: [OE. azimut, F. azimut, fr. Ar. as-sum, pl. of
as-samt a way, or perh., a point of the horizon and a circle
extending to it from the zenith, as being the Arabic article: cf. It.
azzimutto, Pg. azimuth, and Ar. samt-al-ra's the vertex of the
heaven. Cf. Zenith.] (Astron. & Geodesy)
(a) The quadrant of an azimuth circle.
(b) An arc of the horizon intercepted between the meridian of the
place and a vertical circle passing through the center of any object;
as, the azimuth of a star; the azimuth or bearing of a line
surveying.

Note: In trigonometrical surveying, it is customary to reckon the
azimuth of a line from the south point of the horizon around by the
west from 0º to 360º. Azimuth circle, or Vertical circle, one of the
great circles of the sphere intersecting each other in the zenith and
nadir, and cutting the horizon at right angles. Hutton.
 -- Azimuth compass, a compass resembling the mariner's compass, but
having the card divided into degrees instead of rhumbs, and having
vertical sights; used for taking the magnetic azimuth of a heavenly
body, in order to find, by comparison with the true azimuth, the
variation of the needle.
 -- Azimuth dial, a dial whose stile or gnomon is at right angles to
the plane of the horizon. Hutton.
 -- Magnetic azimuth, an arc of the horizon, intercepted between the
vertical circle passing through any object and the magnetic meridian.
This is found by observing the object with an azimuth compass.

AZIMUTHAL
Az"i*muth`al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the azimuth; in a horizontal circle.
Azimuthal error of a transit instrument, its deviation in azimuth
from the plane of the meridian.

AZO-
Az"o-. Etym: [See Azote.] (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form of azote;
(a) Applied loosely to compounds having nitrogen variously combined,
as in cyanides, nitrates, etc.
(b) Now especially applied to compounds containing a two atom
nitrogen group uniting two hydrocarbon radicals, as in azobenzene,
azobenzoic, etc. These compounds furnish many artificial dyes. See
Diazo-.

AZOBENZENE
Az`o*ben"zene, n. Etym: [Azo- + benzene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance (C6H5.N2.C6H5) derived from nitrobenzene, forming
orange red crystals which are easily fusible.

AZOGUE
A*zo"gue, n. [Sp. See Azoth.]

Defn: Lit.: Quicksilver; hence: pl. (Mining)

Defn: Silver ores suitable for treatment by amalgamation with
mercury. [Sp. Amer.]

AZOIC
A*zo"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Destitute of any vestige of organic life, or at least of animal
life; anterior to the existence of animal life; formed when there was
no animal life on the globe; as, the azoic. rocks. Azoic age (Geol.),
the age preceding the existence of animal life, or anterior to the
paleozoic tome. Azoic is also used as a noun, age being understood.
See Archæan, and Eozoic.

AZOLE
Az"ole, n. [From Azote.] (Org. Chem.)

Defn: Any of a large class of compounds characterized by a five-
membered ring which contains an atom of nitrogen and at least one
other noncarbon atom (nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur). The prefixes furo-,
thio, and pyrro-are used to distinguish three subclasses of azoles,
which may be regarded as derived respectively from furfuran,
thiophene, and pyrrol by replacement of the CH group by nitrogen; as,
furo-monazole. Names exactly analogous to those for the azines are
also used; as, oxazole, diazole, etc.

AZOLEIC
Az`o*le"ic, a. Etym: [Azo- + oleic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to an acid produced by treating oleic with nitric
acid. [R.]

AZONIC
A*zon"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Confined to no zone or region; not local.

AZORIAN
A*zo"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Azores.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of the Azores.

AZOTE
Az"ote, n. Etym: [F. azote, fr. Gr.

Defn: Same as Nitrogen. [R.]

AZOTED
Az"ot*ed, a.

Defn: Nitrogenized; nitrogenous.

AZOTH
Az"oth, n. Etym: [LL. azoch, azoth, fr. Ar. az-zauq mercury.]
(Alchemy)
(a) The first principle of metals, i. e., mercury, which was formerly
supposed to exist in all metals, and to be extractable from them.
(b) The universal remedy of Paracelsus.

AZOTIC
A*zot"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to azote, or nitrogen; formed or consisting of
azote; nitric; as, azotic gas; azotic acid. [R.] Carpenter.

AZOTINE; AZOTIN
Az"o*tine, Az"o*tin, n. [Azote + -ine.]

1.

Defn: An explosive consisting of sodium nitrate, charcoal, sulphur,
and petroleum.

2.  = 1st Ammonite, 2.

AZOTITE
Az"o*tite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt formed by the combination of azotous, or nitrous, acid
with a base; a nitrite. [R.]

AZOTIZE
Az"o*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Azotized (p. pr. & vb. n. Azotizing (

Defn: To impregnate with azote, or nitrogen; to nitrogenize.

AZOTOMETER
Az`o*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Azote + -meter.] (Chem.)

Defn: An apparatus for measuring or determining the proportion of
nitrogen; a nitrometer.

AZOTOUS
A*zo"tous, a

Defn: : Nitrous; as, azotous acid. [R.]

AZOTURIA
Az`o*tu"ri*a, n. [NL.; azote + Gr.  urine.] (Med.)

Defn: Excess of urea or other nitrogenous substances in the urine.

AZTEC
Az"tec, a.

Defn: Of or relating to one of the early races in Mexico that
inhabited the great plateau of that country at the time of the
Spanish conquest in 1519.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Aztec race or people.

AZURE
Az"ure, a. Etym: [F. & OSp. azur, Sp. azul, through Ar. from Per.
lajaward, or lajuward, lapis lazuli, a blue color, lajawardi,
lajuwardi, azure, cerulean, the initial l having been dropped,
perhaps by the influence of the Ar. azr-aq azure, blue. Cf. G. lasur,
lasurstein, azure color, azure stone, and NL. lapis lazuli.]

Defn: Sky-blue; resembling the clear blue color of the unclouded sky;
cerulean; also, cloudless. Azure stone (Min.), the lapis lazuli;
also, the lazulite.

AZURE
Az"ure, n.

1. The lapis lazuli. [Obs.]

2. The clear blue color of the sky; also, a pigment or dye of this
color. "In robes of azure." Wordsworth.

3. The blue vault above; the unclouded sky.
Not like those steps On heaven's azure. Milton.

4. (Her.)

Defn: A blue color, represented in engraving by horizontal parallel
lines.

AZURE
Az"ure, v. t.

Defn: To color blue.

AZURED
Az"ured, a.

Defn: Of an azure color; sky-blue. "The azured harebell." Shak.

AZUREOUS
A*zu"re*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of a fine blue color; azure.

AZURINE
Az"u*rine, a. Etym: [Cf. Azurn.]

Defn: Azure.

AZURINE
Az"u*rine, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The blue roach of Europe (Leuciscus cæruleus); -- so called
from its color.

AZURITE
Az"u*rite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Blue carbonate of copper; blue malachite.

AZURN
Az"urn, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. azurin, asurin, LL. azurinus. See Azure,
a.]

Defn: Azure. [Obs.]
Thick set with agate, and the azurn sheen Of turkis blue, and emerald
green. Milton.

AZYGOUS
Az"y*gous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Odd; having no fellow; not one of a pair; single; as, the
azygous muscle of the uvula.

AZYM; AZYME
Az"ym, Az"yme, n. Etym: [F. azyme unleavened, L. azymus, fr. Gr.

Defn: Unleavened bread.

AZYMIC
A*zym"ic, a.

Defn: Azymous.

AZYMITE
Az"y*mite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. azymite.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who administered the Eucharist with unleavened bread; -- a
name of reproach given by those of the Greek church to the Latins.

AZYMOUS
Az"y*mous, a. Etym: [See Azym.]

Defn: Unleavened; unfermented. "Azymous bread." Dunglison.

[END]

End of Project Gutenberg's Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***

***** This file should be named 29765-8.txt or 29765-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/7/6/29765/

Produced by Graham Lawrence

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
