The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***




Produced by Graham Lawrence

[START]

C

1. C is the third letter of the English alphabet. It is from the
Latin letter C, which in old Latin represented the sounds of k, and g
(in go); its original value being the latter. In Anglo-Saxon words,
or Old English before the Norman Conquest, it always has the sound of
k. The Latin C was the same letter as the Greek got it from the
Phoenicians. The English name of C is from the Latin name ce, and was
derived, probably, through the French. Etymologically C is related to
g, h, k, q, s (and other sibilant sounds). Examples of these
relations are in L. acutus, E. acute, ague; E. acrid, eagar; L.
cornu, E. horn; E. cat, kitten; E. coy, quiet; L. circare, OF.
cerchier, E. search.

Note: See Guide to Pronunciation, t\'c5 221-228.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: (a) The keynote of the normal or "natural" scale, which has
neither flats nor sharps in its signature; also, the third note of
the relative minor scale of the same (b) C after the clef is the mark
of common time, in which each measure is a semibreve (four fourths or
crotchets); for alla breve time it is written (c) The "C clef," a
modification of the letter C, placed on any line of the staff, abows
that line to be middle C.

3. As a numeral, C stands for Latin centum or 100, CC for 200, etc. C
spring, a spring in the form of the letter C.

CAABA
Ca*a"ba, n. Etym: [Ar. ka'ban, let, a square building, fr. ka'b cube]

Defn: The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which all
Mohammedans must pray. [Written also kaaba.]

Note: The Caaba is situated in Mecca, a city of Arabia, and contains
a famous black stone said to have been brought from heaven. Before
the time of Mohammed, the Caaba was an idolatrous temple, but it has
since been the chief sanctuary and object of pilgrimage of the
Mohammedan world.

CAADA
Ca*ña"da, n. [Sp.]

Defn: A small cañon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less
frequently, an open valley. [Local, Western U. S.]

CAAS
Caas, n. sing. & pl.

Defn: Case. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CAATINGA
Caa*tin"ga, n. [Tupi caa-tinga white forest.] (Phytogeography)

Defn: A forest composed of stunted trees and thorny bushes, found in
areas of small rainfall in Brazil.

CAB
Cab, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. cabriolet.]

1. A kind of close carriage with two or four wheels, usually a public
vehicle. "A cab came clattering up." Thackeray.

Note: A cab may have two seats at right to the driver's seat, and a
door behind; or one seat parallel to the driver's, with the entrance
from the side or front. Hansom cab. See Hansom.

2. The covered part of a locomotive, in which the engineer has his
station. Knight.

CAB
Cab, n. Etym: [Heb. gab, fr. qabab to hollow.]

Defn: A Hebrew dry measure, containing a little over two (2.37)
pints. W. H. Ward. 2 Kings vi. 25.

CABAL
Ca*bal", n. Etym: [F. cabale cabal, cabala LL. cabala cabala, fr.
Heb. qabbaleh reception, tradition, mysterious doctrine, fr. qabal to
take or receive, in Piël qibbel to abopt (a doctrine).]

1. Tradition; occult doctrine. See Cabala [Obs.] Hakewill.

2. A secret. [Obs.] "The measuring of the temple, a cabal found out
but lately." B. Jonson.

3. A number of persons united in some close design, usually to
promote their private views and interests in church or state by
intrigue; a secret association composed of a few designing persons; a
junto.

Note: It so happend, by a whimsical coincidence, that in 1671 the
cabinet consisted of five persons, the initial letters of whose names
made up the word cabal; Clifford, Arlington, Buckingham, Ashley, and
Lauderdale. Macaulay.

4. The secret artifices or machinations of a few persons united in a
close design; in intrigue.
By cursed cabals of women. Dryden.
Syn. - Junto; intrigue; plot; combination; conspiracy.
 -- Cabal, Combination, Faction. An association for some purpose
considered to be bad is the idea common to these terms. A combination
is an organized union of individuals for mutual support, in urging
their demands or resisting the claims of others, and may be good or
bad according to circumstances; as, a combiniation of workmen or of
employers to effect or to prevent a chang in prices. A cabal is a
secret association of a few individuals who seek by cunning practices
to obtain office and power. A faction is a larger body than a cabal,
employed for selfish purposes in agitating the community and working
up an excitement with a view to change the existing order of things.
"Selfishness, insubordination, and laxity of morals give rise to
combinations, which belong particularly to the lower orders of
society. Restless, jealous, ambitious, and little minds are ever
forming cabals. Factions belong especially to free governments, and
are raised by busy and turbulent spirits for selfish porposes".
Crabb.

CABAL
Ca*bal", v. i. [int. & p. p. Caballed; p. pr. & vb. n. Caballing].
Etym: [Cf. F. cabaler.]

Defn: To unite in a small party to promote private views and
interests by intrigue; to intrigue; to plot.
Caballing still against it with the great. Dryden.

CABALA
Cab"a*la, n. Etym: [LL. See Cabal, n.]

1. A kind of occult theosophy or traditional interpretation of the
Scriptures among Jewish rabbis and certain mediæval Christians, which
treats of the nature of god and the mystery of human existence. It
assumed that every letter, word, number, and accent of Scripture
contains a hidden sense; and it teaches the methods of interpretation
for ascertaining these occult meanings. The cabalists pretend even to
foretell events by this means.

2. Secret science in general; mystic art; mystery.

CABALISM
Cab"a*lism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cabalisme.]

1. The secret science of the cabalists.

2. A superstitious devotion to the mysteries of the religion which
one professes. [R] Emerson.

CABALIST
Cab"a*list, n. Etym: [Cf.F. cabaliste.]

Defn: One versed in the cabala, or the mysteries of Jewish
traditions. "Studious cabalists." Swift.

CABALISTIC; CABALISTICAL
Cab`a*lis"tic, Cab`a*lis"tic*al a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cabala; containing or conveying an
occult meaning; mystic.
The Heptarchus is a cabalistic of the first chapter of Genesis.
Hallam.

CABALISTICALLY
Cab`a*lis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cabalistic manner.

CABALIZE
Cab"a*lize, v. i. Etym: [Cf.F. cabaliser.]

Defn: To use cabalistic language. [R] Dr. H. More.

CABALLER
Ca*bal"ler, n.

Defn: One who cabals.
A close caballer and tongue-valiant lord. Dryden.

CABALLERIA
Ca`bal*le*ri"a, n. [Sp. See Caballero.]

Defn: An ancient Spanish land tenure similar to the English knight's
fee; hence, in Spain and countries settled by the Spanish, a land
measure of varying size. In Cuba it is about 33 acres; in Porto Rico,
about 194 acres; in the Southwestern United States, about 108 acres.

CABALLERO
Ca`bal*le"ro, n. [Sp. Cf. Cavalier.]

Defn: A knight or cavalier; hence, a gentleman.

CABALLINE
Cab"al*line, a. Etym: [L.caballinus, fr. caballus a nag. Cf.
Cavalier.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a horse.
 -- n.

Defn: Caballine aloes. Caballine aloes, an inferior and impure kind
of aloes formerly used in veterinary practice; -- called also horse
aloes.
 -- Caballine spring, the fountain of Hippocrene, on Mount Helicon; -
- fabled to have been formed by a stroke from the foot of the winged
horse Pegasus.

CABALLO
Ca*bal"lo (ka*väl"yo; 220), n. [Written also cavallo.] [Sp., fr. L.
caballus a nag. See Cavalcade.]

Defn: A horse. [Sp. Amer.]

CABARET
Cab"a*ret, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A tavern; a house where liquors are retailed. [Obs. as an
English word.]

CABAS
Ca*bas", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; Hence, a lady's flat
workbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba. C. Bronté.

CABASSOU
Ca*bas"sou, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A speciec of armadillo of the genus Xenurus (X. unicinctus and
X. hispidus); the tatouay. [Written also Kabassou.]

CABBAGE
Cab"bage, n. Etym: [OE. cabage, fr. F. cabus headed (of cabbages),
chou cobus headed cabbage, cabbage head; cf. It. capuccio a little
head, cappuccio cowl, hood, cabbage, fr. capo head, L. caput, or fr.
It. cappa cape. See Chiff, Cape.] (Bot.)

1. An esculent vegetable of many varieties, derived from the wild
Brassica oleracea of Europe. The common cabbage has a compact head of
leaves. The cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, etc., are sometimes
classed as cabbages.

2. The terminal bud of certain palm trees, used, like, cabbage, for
food. See Cabbage tree, below.

3. The cabbage palmetto. See below. Cabbage aphis (Zoöl.), a green
plant-louse (Aphis brassicæ) which lives upon the leaves of the
cabbage.
 -- Cabbage Beetle (Zoöl.), a small, striped flea-beetle (Phyllotreta
vittata) which lives, in the larval state, on the roots, and when
adult, on the leaves, of cabbage and other cruciferous plants.
 -- Cabbage butterfly (Zoöl.), a white butterfly (Pieris rapæ of both
Europe and America, and the Allied P. oleracea, a native American
species) which, in the larval state, devours the leaves of the
cabbage and the turnip. See Cabbage worm, below.
 -- Cabbage Fly (Zoöl.), a small two-winged fly (Anthomyia brassicæ),
which feeds, in the larval or maggot state, on the roots of the
cabbage, often doing much damage to the crop.
 -- Cabbage head, the compact head formed by the leaves of a cabbage;
-- contemptuously or humorously, and colloquially, a very stupid and
silly person; a numskull.
 -- Cabbage palmetto, a species of palm tree (Sabal Palmetto) found
along the coast from North Carolina to Florida.
 -- Cabbage rose (Bot.), a species of rose (Rosa centifolia) having
large and heavy blossoms.
 -- Cabbage tree, Cabbage palm, a name given to palms having a
terminal bud called a cabbage, as the Sabal Palmetto of the United
States, and the Euterpe oleracea and Oreodoxa oleracea of the West
Indies.
 -- Cabbage worm (Zoöl.), the larva of several species of moths and
butterfies, which attacks cabbages. The most common is usully the
larva of a white butterfly. See Cabbage Butterfly, above. The cabbage
cutworms, which eat off the stalks or young plants during the night,
are the larvæ of several species of moths, of the genus Agrotis. See
Cutworm.
 -- Sea cabbage.(Bot.) (a) Sea kale (b). The original Plant (Brassica
oleracea), from which the cabbage, cauliflower, , broccoli, etc.,
have been derived by cultivation.
 -- Thousand-headed cabbage. See Brussels sprouts.

CABBAGE
Cab"bage, v. i.

Defn: To form a head like that the cabbage; as, to make lettuce
cabbage. Johnson.

CABBAGE
Cab"bage, v. i. [imp. & p.p Cabbaged; p. pr. & vb. n. Cabbaging (.]
Etym: [F.cabasser, fr. OF. cabas theft; cf. F. cabas basket, and OF.
cabuser to cheat.]

Defn: To purloin or embezzle, as the pieces of cloth remaining after
cutting out a garment; to pilfer.
Your tailor . . . cabbages whole yards of cloth. Arbuthnot.

CABBAGE
Cab"bage, n.

Defn: Cloth or clippings cabbaged or purloined by one who cuts out
garments.

CABBLER
Cab"bler, n.

Defn: One who works at cabbling.

CABBLING
Cab"bling, n. (Metal)

Defn: The process of breaking up the flat masses into which wrought
iron is first hammered, in order that the pieces may be reheated and
wrought into bar iron.

CABECA; CABESSE
Ca*be"ça, Ca*besse", n. Etym: [Pg. cabeça, F. cabesse.]

Defn: The finest kind of silk received from India.

CABER
Ca"ber, n. Etym: [Gael]

Defn: A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial of
strength.

CABEZON
Cab`e*zon", n. Etym: [Sp., properly, big head. Cf. Cavesson.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A California fish (Hemilepidotus spinosus), allied to the
sculpin.

CABIAI
Cab"i*ai, n. Etym: [Native South American name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The capybara. See Capybara.

CABIN
Cab"in, n. Etym: [OF. caban, fr. W. caban booth, cabin, dim. of cab
cot, tent; or fr. F. cabane, cabine, LL. cabanna, perh. from the
Celtic.]

1. A cottage or small house; a hut. Swift.
A hunting cabin in the west. E. Everett.

2. A small room; an inclosed place.
So long in secret cabin there he held Her captive. Spenser.

3. A room in ship for officers or passengers. Cabin boy, a boy whose
duty is wait on the officers and passengers in the cabin of a ship.

CABIN
Cab"in v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cabined (-nd); p. pr. & vb. n. Cabining.]

Defn: To live in, or as in, a cabin; to lodge.
I'll make you . . . cabin in a cave. Shak.

CABIN
Cab"in, v. t.

Defn: To confine in, or as in, a cabin.
I am cabined, cribbed, confined, bound in To saucy doubts and fears.
Shak.

CABINET
Cab"i*net, n. Etym: [F., dim. of cabine or cabane. See Cabin, n.]

1. A hut; a cottage; a small house. [Obs.]
Hearken a while from thy green cabinet, The rural song of careful
Colinet. Spenser.

2. A small room, or retired apartment; a closet.

3. A private room in which consultations are held.
Philip passed some hours every day in his father's cabinet. Prescott.

4. The advisory council of the chief executive officer of a nation; a
cabinet council.

Note: In England, the cabinet or cabinet council consists of those
privy coucilors who actually transact the immediate business of the
government. Mozley & W.
 -- In the United States, the cabinet is composed of the heads of the
executive departments of the government, namely, the Secretary of
State, of the Treasury, of War, of the Navy, of the Interior, and of
Agiculture, the Postmaster-general ,and the Attorney-general.

5.
(a) A set of drawers or a cupboard intended to contain articles of
value. Hence:
(b) A decorative piece of furniture, whether open like an étagère or
closed with doors. See Etagere.

6. Any building or room set apart for the safe keeping and exhibition
of works of art, etc.; also, the collection itself. Cabinet council.
(a) Same as Cabinet, n., 4 (of which body it was formerly the full
title). (b) A meeting of the cabinet.
 -- Cabinet councilor, a member of a cabinet council.
 -- Cabinet photograph, a photograph of a size smaller than an
imperial, though larger than a carte de visite.
 -- Cabinet picture, a small and generally highly finished picture,
suitable for a small room and for close inspection.

CABINET
Cab"i*net, a.

Defn: Suitable for a cabinet; small.
He [Varnhagen von Ense] is a walking cabinet edition of Goethe. For.
Quar. Rev.

CABINET
Cab"i*net, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cabineted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cabineting.]

Defn: To inclose [R.] Hewyt.

CABINETMAKER
Cab"i*net*mak`er, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to make cabinets or other choice
articles of household furniture, as tables, bedsteads, bureaus, etc.

CABINETMAKING
Cab"i*net*mak`ing, n.

Defn: The art or occupation of making the finer articles of household
furniture.

CABINETWORK
Cab"i*net*work`, n.

Defn: The art or occupation of working upon wooden furniture
requiring nice workmanship; also, such furniture.

CABIREAN
Cab`i*re"an

Defn: ,n.One of the Cabiri.

CABIRI
Ca*bi"ri, n. pl. Etym: [ NL., fr. Gr. Ka`beiroi.] (Myth.)

Defn: Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by the
Pelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece;
-- also called sons of Hephæstus (or Vulcan), as being masters of the
art of working metals. [Written also Cabeiri.] Liddell & Scott.

CABIRIAN
Ca*bir"i*an, a.

Defn: Same as Cabiric.

CABIRIC
Ca*bir"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. Cabirique]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cabiri, or to their mystical worship.
[Written also Cabiritic.]

CABLE
Ca"ble, n. Etym: [F. Câble,m LL. capulum, caplum, a rope, fr. L.
capere to take; cf. D., Dan., & G. rabel, from the French. See
Capable.]

1. A large, strong rope or chain, of considerable length, used to
retain a vessel at anchor, and for other purposes. It is made of
hemp, of steel wire, or of iron links.

2. A rope of steel wire, or copper wire, usually covered with some
protecting, or insulating substance; as, the cable of a suspension
bridge; a telegraphic cable.

3. (Arch)

Defn: A molding, shaft of a column, or any other member of convex,
rounded section, made to resemble the spiral twist of a rope; --
called also cable molding. Bower cable, the cable belonging to the
bower anchor.
 -- Cable road, a railway on which the cars are moved by a
continuously running endless rope operated by a stationary motor.
 -- Cable's length, the length of a ship's cable. Cables in the
merchant service vary in length from 100 to 140 fathoms or more; but
as a maritime measure, a cable's length is either 120 fathoms (720
feet), or about 100 fathoms (600 feet, an approximation to one tenth
of a nautical mile).
 -- Cable tier. (a) That part of a vessel where the cables are
stowed. (b) A coil of a cable.
 -- Sheet cable, the cable belonging to the sheet anchor.
 -- Stream cable, a hawser or rope, smaller than the bower cables, to
moor a ship in a place sheltered from wind and heavy seas.
 -- Submarine cable. See Telegraph.
 -- To pay out the cable, To veer out the cable, to slacken it, that
it may run out of the ship; to let more cable run out of the hawse
hole.
 -- To serve the cable, to bind it round with ropes, canvas, etc., to
prevent its being, worn or galled in the hawse, et.
 -- To slip the cable, to let go the end on board and let it all run
out and go overboard, as when there is not time to weigh anchor.
Hence, in sailor's use, to die.

CABLE
Ca"ble, v. t.

1. To fasten with a cable.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: To ornament with cabling. See Cabling.

CABLE
Ca"ble, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Cabled (-b'ld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cabling (-blòng).]

Defn: To telegraph by a submarine cable [Recent]

CABLED
Ca"bled, a.

1. Fastened with, or attached to, a cable or rope. "The cabled
stone." Dyer.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Adorned with cabling.

CABLEGRAM
Ca"ble*gram`, n. Etym: [Cable, n. + Gr.

Defn: A message sent by a submarine telegraphic cable.

Note: [A recent hybrid, sometimes found in the newspapers.]

CABLELAID
Ca"ble*laid`, a.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: Composed of three three-stranded ropes, or hawsers, twisted
together to form a cable.

2. Twisted after the manner of a cable; as, a cable-laid gold chain.
Simmonds.

CABLET
Ca"blet, n. Etym: [Dim. of cable; cf. F. câblot.]

Defn: A little cable less than ten inches in circumference.

CABLING
Ca"bling, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The decoration of a fluted shaft of a column or of a pilaster
with reeds, or rounded moldings, which seem to be laid in the hollows
of the fluting. These are limited in length to about one third of the
height of the shaft.

CABMAN
Cab"man, n.; pl. Cabmen (.

Defn: The driver of a cab.

CABOB
Ca*bob", n. Etym: [Hindi kabab]

1. A small piece of mutton or other meat roasted on a skewer; -- so
called in Turkey and Persia.

2. A leg of mutton roasted, stuffed with white herrings and sweet
herbs. Wright.

CABOB
Ca*bob", v. t.

Defn: To roast, as a cabob. Sir. T. Herbert.

CABOCHED
Ca*boched", a. Etym: [F. caboche head. Cf. lst Cabbage.] (Her.)

Defn: Showing the full face, but nothing of the neck; -- said of the
head of a beast in armorial bearing. [Written also caboshed.]

CABOCHON
Ca`bo`chon" (ka`bo`shôN"), n. [F.] (Jewelry)

Defn: A stone of convex form, highly polished, but not faceted; also,
the style of cutting itself. Such stones are said to be cut en
cabochon.

CABOODLE
Ca*boo"dle, n.

Defn: The whole collection; the entire quantity or number; -- usually
in the phrase the whole caboodle. [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett.

CABOOSE
Ca*boose", n. Etym: [Cf. D. kabuis, kombuis, Dan. kabys, Sw. kabysa,
G. kabuse a little room or hut. The First part of the word seems to
be allied to W. cab cabin, booth. Cf. Cabin.] [Written also
camboose.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly called
the galley.

2. (Railroad)

Defn: A car used on freight or construction trains for brakemen,
workmen, etc.; a tool car. [U. S.]

CABOTAGE
Cab"o*tage, n. Etym: [F. cabotage, fr. caboter to sail along the
coast; cf. Sp. cabo cape.] (Naut.)

Defn: Navigation along the coast; the details of coast pilotage.

CABREE
Ca*brée", n. Etym: [French Canadian.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pronghorn antelope. [Also written cabrit, cabret.]

CABRERITE
Ca*brer"ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: An apple-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of nickel, cobalt,
and magnesia; -- so named from the Sierra Cabrera, Spain.

CABRILLA
Ca*bril"la, n. Etym: [Sp., prawn.] (Zoöl)

Defn: A name applied to various species of edible fishes of the genus
Serranus, and related genera, inhabiting the Meditarranean, the coast
of California, etc. In California, some of them are also called rock
bass and kelp salmon.

CABRIOLE
Cab"ri*ole, n. Etym: [F. See Cabriolet, and cf. Capriole.] (Man.)

Defn: A curvet; a leap. See Capriole.
The cabrioles which his charger exhibited. Sir W. Scott.

CABRIOLET
Cab`ri*o*let", n.Etym: [F., dim. of cabriole a leap, caper, from It.
capriola, fr. dim. of L. caper he-goat, capra she-goat. This carriage
is so called from its skipping lightness. Cf. Cab, Caper a leap.]

Defn: A one-horse carriage with two seats and a calash top.

CABRIT
Ca*brit", n.

Defn: Same as Cabrée.

CABURN
Cab"urn, n. Etym: [Cf. Cable, n.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seize
tackles, etc.

CACAEMIA; CACHAEMIA
Ca*cæ"mi*a, Ca*chæ"mi*a n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood.

CACAINE
Ca*ca"ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The essential principle of cacao; -- now called theobromine.

CACAJAO
Ca*ca*jão", n. Etym: [Pg.] (Zoöl)

Defn: A South American short-tailed monkey (Pithecia (or Brachyurus)
melanocephala). [Written also cacajo.]

CACAO
Ca*ca"o, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. Mex. kakahuatl. Cf. Cocoa, Chocolate]
(Bot.)

Defn: A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao) of South America and
the West Indies. Its fruit contains an edible pulp, inclosing seeds
about the size of an almond, from which cocoa, chocolate, and broma
are prepared.

CACHAEMIA; CACHEMIA
Ca*chæ"mi*a, Ca*che"mi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  bad +  blood.] (Med.)

Defn: A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood. --Ca*chæ"mic,
Ca*che"mic (#), a.

CACHALOT
Cach"a*lot, n. Etym: [F. cachalot.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). It has in the top of
its head a large cavity, containing an oily fluid, which, after
death, concretes into a whitish crystalline substance called
spermaceti. See Sperm whale.

CACHE
Cache, n. Etym: [F., a hiding place, fr. cacher to conceal, to hide.]

Defn: A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing and
preserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry. Kane.

CACHECTIC; CACHECTICAL
Ca*chec"tic, Ca*chec"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. cachecticus, Gr.
cachectique.]

Defn: Having, or pertaining to, cachexia; as, cachectic remedies;
cachectical blood. Arbuthnot.

CACHEPOT
Cache`pot" (kash`po"), n. Etym: [F., fr. cacher to hide + pot a pot.]

Defn: An ornamental casing for a flowerpot, of porcelain, metal,
paper, etc.

CACHET
Cach"et, n. Etym: [F. fr. cacher to hide.]

Defn: A seal, as of a letter. Lettre de cachet Etym: [F.], a sealed
letter, especially a letter or missive emanating from the sovereign;
-- much used in France before the Revolution as an arbitrary order of
imprisonment.

CACHEXIA; CACHEXY
Ca*chex"i*a, Ca*chex"y, n. Etym: [L. cachexia, Gr.

Defn: A condition of ill health and impairment of nutrition due to
impoverishment of the blood, esp. when caused by a specific morbid
process (as cancer or tubercle).

CACHINNATION
Cach`in*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. cachinnatio, fr. cachinnare to laugh
aloud, cf Gr.

Defn: Loud or immoderate laughter; -- often a symptom of hysterical
or maniacal affections.
Hideous grimaces . . . attended this unusual cachinnation. Sir W.
Scott.

CACHINNATORY
Ca*chin"na*to*ry, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or accompanied by, immoderate laughter.
Cachinnatory buzzes of approval. Carlyle.

CACHIRI
Ca*chi"ri, n.

Defn: A fermented liquor made in Cayenne from the grated root of the
manioc, and resembling perry. Dunglison.

CACHOLONG
Cach"o*long, n, Etym: [F. cacholong, said to be from Cach, the name
of a river in Bucharia + cholon, a Calmuck word for stone; or fr. a
Calmuck word meaning "beautiful stone"] (Min.)

Defn: An opaque or milk-white chalcedony, a variety of quartz; also,
a similar variety of opal.

CACHOU
Ca`chou", n. Etym: [F. See Cashoo.]

Defn: A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of the
breath.

CACHUCHA
Ca*chu"cha, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: An Andalusian dance in three-four time, resembing the bolero.
[Sometimes in English spelled cachuca (.]
The orchestra plays the cachucha. Logfellow.

CACHUNDE
Ca*chun"de, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Med.)

Defn: A pastil or troche, composed of various aromatic and other
ingredients, highly celebrated in India as an antidote, and as a
stomachic and antispasmodic.

CACIQUE
Ca*cique", n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: See Cazique.

CACK
Cack, v. i. Etym: [OE. cakken, fr. L. cacare; akin to Gr. cac.]

Defn: To ease the body by stool; to go to stool. Pope.

CACKEREL
Cack"er*el, n. Etym: [OF. caquerel cagarel (Cotgr.), from the root of
E. cack.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The mendole; a small worthless Mediterranean fish considered
poisonous by the ancients. See Mendole.

CACKLE
Cac"kle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cackled (-k'ld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cackling.] Etym: [OE. cakelen; cf. LG. kakeln, D. kakelen, G.
gackeln, gackern; all of imitative origin. Cf. Gagle, Cake to
cackle.]

1. To make a sharp, broken noise or cry, as a hen or goose does.
When every goose is cackling. Shak.

2. To laugh with a broken noise, like the cackling of a hen or a
goose; to giggle. Arbuthnot.

3. To talk in a silly manner; to prattle. Johnson.

CACKLE
Cac"kle, n.

1. The sharp broken noise made by a goose or by a hen that has laid
an egg.
By her cackle saved the state. Dryden.

2. Idle talk; silly prattle.
There is a buzz and cackle all around regarding the sermon.
Thackeray.

CACKLER
Cac"kler, n.

1. A fowl that cackles.

2. One who prattles, or tells tales; a tattler.

CACKLING
Cac"kling, n.

Defn: The broken noise of a goose or a hen.

CACOCHYMIA; CACOCHYMY
Cac`o*chym"i*a, Cac"o*chym`y, n. Etym: [NL. cacochymia, fr. Gr.
cacochymie.] (Med.)

Defn: A vitiated state of the humors, or fluids, of the body,
especially of the blood. Dunglison.

CACOCHYMIC; CACOCHYMICAL
Cac`o*chym"ic, Cac`o*chym"ic*al, a.

Defn: Having the fluids of the body vitiated, especially the blood.
Wiseman.

CACODEMON
Cac`o*de"mon, n. Etym: [Gr. cacodémon.]

1. An evil spirit; a devil or demon. Shak.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The nightmare. Dunaglison.

CACODOXICAL
Cac`o*dox"ic*al, a.

Defn: Heretical.

CACODOXY
Cac"o*dox`y, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Erroneous doctrine; heresy; heterodoxy. [R.]
Heterodoxy, or what Luther calls cacodoxy. R. Turnbull.

CACODYL
Cac"o*dyl, n. Etym: [Gr. -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: Alkarsin; a colorless, poisonous, arsenical liquid, As2(CH3)4,
spontaneously inflammable and possessing an intensely disagreeable
odor. It is the type of a series of compounds analogous to the
nitrogen compounds called hydrazines. [Written also cacodyle, and
kakodyl.]

CACODYLIC
Cac`o*dyl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, cacodyl. Cacodylic acid, a
white, crystalline, deliquescent substance, (CH3)2AsO.OH, obtained by
the oxidation of cacodyl, and having the properties of an exceedingly
stable acid; -- also called alkargen.

CACOETHES
Cac`o*ë"thes, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A bad custom or habit; an insatiable desire; as, cacoëthes
scribendi, "The itch for writing". Addison.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A bad quality or disposition in a disease; an incurable ulcer.

CACOGASTRIC
Cac`o*gas"tric, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Troubled with bad digestion. [R.] Carlyle.

CACOGRAPHIC
Cac`o*graph`ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, cacography; badly written
or spelled.

CACOGRAPHY
Ca*cog`ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy; cf. F. cacographie.]

Defn: Incorrect or bad writing or spelling. Walpole.

CACOLET
Ca`co*let", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A chair, litter, or other contrivance fitted to the back or
pack saddle of a mule for carrying travelers in mountainous
districts, or for the transportation of the sick and wounded of an
army.

CACOLOGY
Ca*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. cacologie.]

Defn: Bad speaking; bad choice or use of words. Buchanan.

CACOMIXLE; CACOMIXTLE; CACOMIXL
Ca`co*mix"le, Ca`co*mix"tle, Ca"co*mix`l, n. Etym: [Mexican name.]

Defn: A North American carnivore (Bassaris astuta), about the size of
a cat, related to the raccoons. It inhabits Mexico, Texas, and
California.

CACOON
Ca*coon", n.

Defn: One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entada
scandens) used for making purses, scent bottles, etc.

CACOPHONIC; CACOPHONICAL; CACOPHONOUS; CACOPHONIOUS
Cac`o*phon"ic, Cac`o*phon"ic*al, Ca*coph"o*nous, Cac`o*pho"ni*ous, a.

Defn: Harsh-sounding.

CACOPHONY
Ca*coph"o*ny, n.; pl. Cacophonies. Etym: [Gr. Cacophonie.]

1. (Rhet.)

Defn: An uncouth or disagreable sound of words, owing to the
concurrence of harsh letters or syllables. "Cacophonies of all
kinds." Pope.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A combination of discordant sounds.

3. (Med.)

Defn: An unhealthy state of the voice.

CACOSTOMIA
Cac`o*sto"mi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  bad +  mouth.] (Med.)

Defn: Diseased or gangrenous condition of the mouth.

CACOTECHNY
Cac"o*tech`ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A corruption or corrupt state of art. [R.]

CACOXENE; CACOXENITE
Ca*cox"ene, Ca*cox"e*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous phosphate of iron occurring in yellow radiated tufts.
The phosphorus seriously injures it as an iron ore.

CACTACEOUS
Cac*ta"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or like, the family of plants of which the
prickly pear is a common example.

CACTUS
Cac"tus, n. ; pl. E. Cactuses, Cacti (-ti). Etym: [L., a kind of
cactus, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the order Cactacæ, as the prickly pear and the
night-blooming cereus. See Cereus. They usually have leafless stems
and branches, often beset with clustered thorns, and are mostly
natives of the warmer parts of America. Cactus wren (Zoöl.), an
American wren of the genus Campylorhynchus, of several species.

CACUMINAL
Ca*cu"mi*nal, a. Etym: [L. cacumen, cacuminis, the top, point.]
(Philol.)

Defn: Pertaining to the top of the palate; cerebral; -- applied to
certain consonants; as, cacuminal (or cerebral) letters.

CACUMINATE
Ca*cu"mi*nate, v. i. Etym: [L. cacuminatus, p. p. of cacuminare to
point, fr. cacumen point.]

Defn: To make sharp or pointed. [Obs.]

CAD
Cad, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. cadet.]

1. A person who stands at the door of an omnibus to open and shut it,
and to receive fares; an idle hanger-on about innyards. [Eng.]
Dickens.

2. A lowbred, presuming person; a mean, vulgar fellow. [Cant]
Thackeray.

CADASTRAL
Ca*das"tral, a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to landed property. Cadastral survey, or
Cadastral map, a survey, map, or plan on a large scale (Usually
topographical map, which exaggerates the dimensions of houses and the
breadth of roads and streams, for the sake of distinctness. Brande &
C.

CADASTRE; CADASTER
Ca*das"tre, Ca*das"ter, n. Etym: [f. cadastre.] (Law.)

Defn: An official statement of the quantity and value of real estate
for the purpose of apportioning the taxes payable on such property.

CADAVER
Ca*da"ver, n. Etym: [L., fr cadere to fall.]

Defn: A dead human body; a corpse.

CADAVERIC
Ca*dav"er*ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a corpse, or the changes
produced by death; cadaverous; as, cadaveric rigidity. Dunglison.
Cadaveric alkaloid, an alkaloid generated by the processes of
decomposition in dead animal bodies, and thought by some to be the
cause of the poisonous effects produced by the bodies. See Ptomaine.

CADAVERINE; CADAVERIN
Ca*dav"er*ine, Ca*dav"er*in, n. [From Cadaver.] (Chem.)

Defn: A sirupy, nontoxic ptomaine, C5H14N2 (chemically pentamethylene
diamine), formed in putrefaction of flesh, etc.

CADAVEROUS
Ca*dav"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. cadaverosus.]

1. Having the appearance or color of a dead human body; pale;
ghastly; as, a cadaverous look.

2. Of or pertaining to, or having the qualities of, a dead body. "The
scent cadaverous." -- Ca*dav"er*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*dav"er*ous*ness, n.

CADBAIT
Cad"bait`, n. Etym: [Prov. E. codbait, cadbote fly.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Caddice.

CADDICE; CADDIS
Cad"dice, Cad"dis, n. Etym: [Prov. E. caddy, cadew; cf. G. köder
bait.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larva of a caddice fly. These larvæ generally live in
cylindrical cases, open at each end, and covered externally with
pieces of broken shells, gravel, bits of wood, etc. They are a
favorite bait with anglers. Called also caddice worm, or caddis worm.
Caddice fly (Zoöl.), a species of trichopterous insect, whose larva
is the caddice.

CADDIS
Cad"dis, n. Etym: [OE. caddas, Scot. caddis lint, caddes a kind of
woolen cloth, cf. Gael. cada, cadadh, a kind of cloth, cotton,
fustian, W. cadas, F. cadis.]

Defn: A kind of worsted lace or ribbon. "Caddises, cambrics, lawns."
Shak.

CADDISH
Cad"dish, a.

Defn: Like a cad; lowbred and presuming.

CADDOW
Cad"dow, n. Etym: [OE. cadawe, prob. fr. ca chough + daw jackdaw; cf.
Gael. cadhag, cathag. Cf. Chough, Daw, n.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A jackdaw. [Prov. Eng.]

CADDY
Cad"dy, n.; pl. Caddies. Etym: [Earlier spelt catty, fr. Malay kati a
weight of 11/3 pounds. Cf. Catty.]

Defn: A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in.

CADE
Cade, a. Etym: [Cf. OE. cad, kod, lamb, also Cosset, Coddle.]

Defn: Bred by hand; domesticated; petted.
He brought his cade lamb with him. Sheldon.

CADE
Cade, v. t.

Defn: To bring up or nourish by hand, or with tenderness; to coddle;
to tame. [Obs.] Johnson.

CADE
Cade, n. Etym: [L. cadus jar, Gr.

Defn: A barrel or cask, as of fish. "A cade of herrings." Shak.
A cade of herrings is 500, of sprats 1,000. Jacob, Law Dict.

CADE
Cade, n. Etym: [F. & Pr.; LL. cada.]

Defn: A species of juniper (Juniperus Oxycedrus) of Mediterranean
countries. Oil of cade, a thick, black, tarry liquid, obtained by
destructive distillation of the inner wood of the cade. It is used as
a local application in skin diseases.

CADENCE
Ca"dence, n. Etym: [OE. cadence, cadens, LL. cadentia a falling, fr.
L. cadere to fall; cf. F. cadence, It. cadenza. See Chance.]

1. The act or state of declining or sinking. [Obs.]
Now was the sun in western cadence low. Milton.

2. A fall of the voice in reading or speaking, especially at the end
of a sentence.

3. A rhythmical modulation of the voice or of any sound; as, music of
bells in cadence sweet.
Blustering winds, which all night long Had roused the sea, now with
hoarse cadence lull Seafaring men o'erwatched. Milton.
The accents . . . were in passion's tenderest cadence. Sir W. Scott.

4. Rhythmical flow of language, in prose or verse.
Golden cadence of poesy. Shak.
If in any composition much attention was paid to the flow of the
rhythm, it was said (at least in the 14th and 15th centuries) to be
"prosed in faire cadence." Dr. Guest.

5. (Her.)

Defn: See Cadency.

6. (Man.)

Defn: Harmony and proportion in motions, as of a well-managed horse.

7. (Mil.)

Defn: A uniform time and place in marching.

8. (Mus.)
(a) The close or fall of a strain; the point of rest, commonly
reached by the immediate succession of the tonic to the dominant
chord.
(b) A cadenza, or closing embellishment; a pause before the end of a
strain, which the performer may fill with a flight of fancy.
Imperfect cadence. (Mus.) See under Imperfect.

CADENCE
Ca"dence, v. t.

Defn: To regulate by musical measure.
These parting numbers, cadenced by my grief. Philips.

CADENCY
Ca"den*cy, n.

Defn: Descent of related families; distinction between the members of
a family according to their ages. Marks of cadency (Her.), bearings
indicating the position of the bearer as older or younger son, or as
a descendant of an older or younger son. See Difference (Her.).

CADENE
Ca*dene", n. Etym: [Cf. F. cadène.]

Defn: A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant.
McElrath.

CADENT
Ca"dent, a. Etym: [L. cadens, -entis, p. pr. of cadere to fall.]

Defn: Falling. [R.] "Cadent tears." Shak.

CADENZA
Ca*den"za, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of a
piece, commonly just before the final cadence.

CADER
Ca"der, n.

Defn: See Cadre.

CADET
Ca*det", n. Etym: [F. cadet a younger or the youngest son or brother,
dim. fr. L. caput head; i. e., a smaller head of the family, after
the first or eldest. See Chief, and cf. Cad.]

1. The younger of two brothers; a younger brother or son; the
youngest son.
The cadet of an ancient and noble family. Wood.

2. (Mil.)
(a) A gentleman who carries arms in a regiment, as a volunteer, with
a view of acquiring military skill and obtaining a commission.
(b) A young man in training for military or naval service; esp. a
pupil in a military or naval school, as at West Point, Annapolis, or
Woolwich.

Note: All the undergraduates at Annapolis are Naval cadets. The
distinction between Cadet midshipmen and Cadet engineers was
abolished by Act of Congress in 1882.

CADETSHIP
Ca*det"ship, n.

Defn: The position, rank, or commission of a cadet; as, to get a
cadetship.

CADEW; CADEWORM
Ca*dew", Cade"worm`, n.

Defn: A caddice. See Caddice.

CADGE
Cadge, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Cadged; p. pr. & vb. n. Cadging.]
Etym: [Cf. Scot. cache, caich, cadge, to toss, drive, OE. cachen to
drive, catch, caggen to bind, or perh. E. cage. Cf. Cadger.]

1. To carry, as a burden. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell.

2. To hawk or peddle, as fish, poultry, etc. [Prov.]

3. To intrude or live on another meanly; to beg. [Prov. or Slang,
Eng.] Wright.

CADGE
Cadge, n. Etym: [Cf. 2d Cadger.] (Hawking)

Defn: A circular frame on which cadgers carry hawks for sale.

CADGER
Cadg"er, n. Etym: [From Cadge, v. t., cf. Codger.]

1. A packman or itinerant huckster.

2. One who gets his living by trickery or begging. [Prov. or Slang]
"The gentleman cadger." Dickens.

CADGER
Cadg"er, n. Etym: [OF. cagier one who catches hawks. Cf. Cage.]
(Hawking)

Defn: One who carries hawks on a cadge.

CADGY
Cadg"y, a.

Defn: Cheerful or mirthful, as after good eating or drinking; also,
wanton. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

CADI
Ca"di, n. Etym: [Turk. See Alcalde.]

Defn: An inferior magistrate or judge among the Mohammedans, usually
the judge of a town or village.

CADIE; CADDIE
Cad"ie, Cad"die, n.

Defn: A Scotch errand boy, porter, or messenger. [Written also cady.]
Every Scotchman, from the peer to the cadie. Macaulay.

CADILESKER
Ca`di*les"ker, n. Etym: [Ar. qa\'c8i judge + al'sker the army, Per.
leshker.]

Defn: A chief judge in the Turkish empire, so named originally
because his jurisdiction extended to the cases of soldiers, who are
now tried only by their own officers.

CADILLAC
Ca*dil"lac, n. Etym: [Prob. from Cadillac, a French town.]

Defn: A large pear, shaped like a flattened top, used chiefly for
cooking. Johnson.

CADIS
Cad"is, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A kind of coarse serge.

CADMEAN
Cad*me"an, a. Etym: [L. Cadmeus, Gr. Cadmus), which name perhaps
means lit. a man from the East; cf. Heb. qedem east.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cadmus, a fabulous prince of Thebes, who
was said to have introduced into Greece the sixteen simple letters of
the alphabet -- Cadmean letters. Cadmean victory, a victory that
damages the victors as much as the vanquished; probably referring to
the battle in which the soldiers who sprang from the dragon's teeth
sown by Cadmus slew each other.

CADMIA
Cad"mi*a, n. Etym: [L. cadmia calamine, Gr. Calamine.] (Min.)

Defn: An oxide of zinc which collects on the sides of furnaces where
zinc is sublimed. Formerly applied to the mineral calamine.

CADMIAN
Cad"mi*an, a. [R.]

Defn: See Cadmean.

CADMIC
Cad"mic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cadmium; as, cadmic
sulphide.

CADMIUM
Cad"mi*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Cadmia.] (Chem.)

Defn: A comparatively rare element related to zinc, and occurring in
some zinc ores. It is a white metal, both ductile and malleable.
Symbol Cd. Atomic weight 111.8. It was discovered by Stromeyer in
1817, who named it from its association with zinc or zinc ore.
Cadmium yellow, a compound of cadmium and sulphur, of an intense
yellow color, used as a pigment.

CADRANS
Cad"rans, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cadran. Cf. Quadrant.]

Defn: An instrument with a graduated disk by means of which the
angles of gems are measured in the process of cutting and polishing.

CADRE
Ca"dre, n. Etym: [F. cadre, It. quadro square, from L. quadrum, fr.
quatuor four.] (Mil.)

Defn: The framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to be
formed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff. [Written also
cader.]

CADUCARY
Ca*du"ca*ry, a. Etym: [See Caducous.] (Law)

Defn: Relating to escheat, forfeiture, or confiscation.

CADUCEAN
Ca*du"ce*an, a.

Defn: Of or belonging to Mercury's caduceus, or wand.

CADUCEUS
Ca*du"ce*us, n. Etym: [L. caduceum, caduceus; akin to Gr. (Myth.)

Defn: The official staff or wand of Hermes or Mercury, the messenger
of the gods. It was originally said to be a herald's staff of olive
wood, but was afterwards fabled to have two serpents coiled about it,
and two wings at the top.

CADUCIBRANCHIATE
Ca*du`ci*bran"chi*ate, a. Etym: [L. caducus falling (fr. cadere to
fall) + E. branchiate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: With temporary gills: -- applied to those Amphibia in which the
gills do not remain in adult life.

CADUCITY
Ca*du"ci*ty, n. Etym: [LL. caducitas: cf. F. caducité. See Caducous.]

Defn: Tendency to fall; the feebleness of old age; senility. [R.]
[A] jumble of youth and caducity. Chesterfield.

CADUCOUS
Ca*du"cous, Etym: [L. caducus falling, inclined to fall, fr. cadere
to fall. See Cadence.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Dropping off or disappearing early, as the calyx of a poppy, or
the gills of a tadpole.

CADUKE
Ca*duke", a. Etym: [Cf. F. caduc. See Caducous.]

Defn: Perishable; frail; transitory. [Obs.] Hickes.
The caduke pleasures of his world. Bp. Fisher.

CADY
Cad"y, n.

Defn: See Cadie.

CAECA
Cæ"ca, n. pl.

Defn: See Cæcum.

CAECAL
Cæ"cal, a. (Anat.)

1. Of or pertaining to the cæcum, or blind gut.

2. Having the form of a cæcum, or bag with one opening; baglike; as,
the cæcal extremity of a duct.

CAECIAS
Cæ"ci*as, n. Etym: [L. caecias, Gr.

Defn: A wind from the northeast. Milton.

CAECILIAN
Cæ*cil"i*an, n. Etym: [L. caecus blind. So named from the supposed
blindness of the species, the eyes being very minute.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A limbless amphibian belonging to the order Cæciliæ or
Ophimorpha. See Ophiomorpha. [Written also coecilian.]

CAECUM
Cæ"cum, n.; pl. Cæcums, L. Cæca. Etym: [L. caecus blind, invisible,
concealed.] (Anat.)
(a) A cavity open at one end, as the blind end of a canal or duct.
(b) The blind part of the large intestine beyond the entrance of the
small intestine; -- called also the blind gut.

Note: The cæcum is comparatively small in man, and ends in a slender
portion, the vermiform appendix; but in herbivorous mammals it is
often as large as the rest of the large intestine. In fishes there
are often numerous intestinal cæca.

CAELATURA
Cæ`la*tu"ra, n. [L., fr. caelare to engrave in relief.]

Defn: Art of producing metal decorative work other than statuary, as
reliefs, intaglios, engraving, chasing, etc.

CAENOZOIC
Cæ`no*zo"ic, a. (Geol.)

Defn: See Cenozoic.

CAEN STONE
Ca"en stone",

Defn: A cream-colored limestone for building, found near Caen,
France.

CAESAR
Cæ"sar, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Cæsar.
Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerful
ruler. See Kaiser, Kesar.
Malborough anticipated the day when he would be servilely flattered
and courted by Cæsar on one side and by Louis the Great on the other.
Macaulay.

CAESAREAN; CAESARIAN
Cæ*sa"re*an, Cæ*sa"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Caesareus, Caesarianus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cæsar or the Cæsars; imperial. Cæsarean
section (Surg.), the operation of taking a child from the womb by
cutting through the walls of the abdomen and uterus; -- so called
because Julius Cæsar is reported to have been brought into the world
by such an operation.

CAESARISM
Cæ"sar*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Césarisme.]

Defn: A system of government in which unrestricted power is exercised
by a single person, to whom, as Cæsar or emperor, it has been
committed by the popular will; imperialism; also, advocacy or support
of such a system of government.

Note: This word came into prominence in the time of Napoleon III., as
an expression of the claims and political views of that emperor, and
of the politicians of his court.

CAESIOUS
Cæ"si*ous, a. Etym: [L. caesius bluish gray.] (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Of the color of lavender; pale blue with a slight mixture of
gray. Lindley.

CAESIUM
Cæ"si*um, n. Etym: [NL., from L. caesius bluish gray.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare alkaline metal found in mineral water; -- so called from
the two characteristic blue lines in its spectrum. It was the first
element discovered by spectrum analysis, and is the most strongly
basic and electro-positive substance known. Symbol Cs. Atomic weight
132.6.

CAESPITOSE
Cæs"pi*tose`, a.

Defn: Same as Cespitose.

CAESURA
Cæ*su"ra, n.; pl. E. Cæsuras (, L. Cæsuræ ( Etym: [L. caesura a
cutting off, a division, stop, fr. caedere, caesum, to cut off. See
Concise.]

Defn: A metrical break in a verse, occurring in the middle of a foot
and commonly near the middle of the verse; a sense pause in the
middle of a foot. Also, a long syllable on which the cæsural accent
rests, or which is used as a foot.

Note: In the following line the cæsura is between study and of.
The prop | er stud | y || of | mankind | is man.

CAESURAL
Cæ*su"ral, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cæsura. Cæsural pause, a pause made at a
cæsura.

CAFE
Ca`fé", n. Etym: [F. See Coffee.]

Defn: A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel or
restaurant where coffee and liquors are served.

CAFENET; CAFENEH
Caf"e*net, Caf"e*neh, n. Etym: [Turk. qahveh khaneh coffeehouse.]

Defn: A humble inn or house of rest for travelers, where coffee is
sold. [Turkey]

CAFETERIA
Caf`e*te"ri*a, n. [Cf. F. cafetière.]

Defn: A restaurant or café at which the patrons serve themselves with
food kept at a counter, taking the food to small tables to eat. [U.
S.]

CAFFEIC
Caf*fe"ic, a. Etym: [See Coffee.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, coffee. Caffeic acid, an acid
obtained from coffee tannin, as a yellow crystalline substance,
C9H8O4.

CAFFEINE
Caf*fe"ine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. caféine. See Coffee.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, bitter, crystallizable substance, obtained from
coffee. It is identical with the alkaloid theine from tea leaves, and
with guaranine from guarana.

CAFFETANNIC
Caf`fe*tan"nic, a. Etym: [Caffeic + tannic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the tannin of coffee.
Caffetannic acid, a variety of tannin obtained from coffee berries,
regarded as a glucoside.

CAFFILA
Caf"fi*la, n. Etym: [Ar.]

Defn: See Cafila.

CAFFRE
Caf"fre, n.

Defn: See Kaffir.

CAFILA; CAFILEH
Ca"fi*la, Ca"fi*leh, n. Etym: [Ar.]

Defn: A caravan of travelers; a military supply train or government
caravan; a string of pack horses.

CAFTAN
Caf"tan, n. Etym: [Turk. qaftan: cf. F. cafetan.]

Defn: A garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gown
with sleeves reaching below the hands. It is generally fastened by a
belt or sash.

CAFTAN
Caf"tan, v. t.

Defn: To clothe with a caftan. [R.]
The turbaned and caftaned damsel. Sir W. Scott.

CAG
Cag, n.

Defn: See Keg. [Obs.]

CAGE
Cage, n. Etym: [F. cage, fr. L. cavea cavity, cage, fr. cavus hollow.
Cf. Cave, n., Cajole, Gabion.]

1. A box or inclosure, wholly or partly of openwork, in wood or
metal, used for confining birds or other animals.
In his cage, like parrot fine and gay. Cowper.

2. A place of confinement for malefactors Shak.
Stone walls do not a prison make, Nor iron bars a cage. Lovelace.

3. (Carp.)

Defn: An outer framework of timber, inclosing something within it; as
the cage of a staircase. Gwilt.

4. (Mach.)
(a) A skeleton frame to limit the motion of a loose piece, as a ball
valve.
(b) A wirework strainer, used in connection with pumps and pipes.

5. The box, bucket, or inclosed platform of a lift or elevator; a
cagelike structure moving in a shaft.

6. (Mining)

Defn: The drum on which the rope is wound in a hoisting whim.

7. (Baseball)

Defn: The catcher's wire mask.

CAGE
Cage, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caged; p. pr. & vb. n. Caging.]

Defn: To confine in, or as in, a cage; to shut up or confine. "Caged
and starved to death." Cowper.

CAGED
Caged, a.

Defn: Confined in, or as in, a cage; like a cage or prison. "The
caged cloister." Shak.

CAGELING
Cage"ling, n. Etym: [Cage + -ling]

Defn: A bird confined in a cage; esp. a young bird. [Poetic]
Tennyson.

CAGIT
Ca"git, n. (Zoöl)

Defn: A king of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in the
Philippine Islands.

CAGMAG
Cag"mag, n.

Defn: A tough old goose; hence, coarse, bad food of any kind. [Prov.
Eng.] Halliwell.

CAGOT
Ca"got, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: One of a race inhabiting the valleys of the Pyrenees, who until
1793 were political and social outcasts (Christian Pariahs). They are
supposed to be a remnant of the Visigoths.

CAHENSLYISM
Ca*hens"ly*ism, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A plan proposed to the Pope in 1891 by P. P. Cahensly, a member
of the German parliament, to divide the foreign-born population of
the United States, for ecclesiastical purposes, according to European
nationalities, and to appoint bishops and priests of like race and
speaking the same language as the majority of the members of a
diocese or congregation. This plan was successfully opposed by the
American party in the Church.

CAHIER
Ca`hier", n. Etym: [F., fr. OF. cayer, fr. LL. quaternum. See Quire
of paper. The sheets of manuscript were folded into parts.]

1. A namber of sheets of paper put loosely together; esp. one of the
successive portions of a work printed in numbers.

2. A memorial of a body; a report of legislative proceedings, etc.

CAHINCA ROOT
Ca*hin"ca root`. [Written also cainca root.] [See Cahincic.] (Bot.)

Defn: The root of an American shrub (Chiococca racemosa), found as
far north as Florida Keys, from which cahincic acid is obtained;
also, the root of the South American Chiococca anguifuga, a
celebrated antidote for snake poison.

CAHINCIC
Ca*hin"cic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, cahinca, the native name of a
species of Brazilian Chiococca, perhaps C. recemosa; as, cahincic
acid.

CAHOOT
Ca*hoot", n. Etym: [Perhaps fr. f. cohorte a a company or band.]

Defn: Partnership; as to go in cahoot with a person. [Slang,
southwestern U. S.] Bartlett.

CAIMACAM
Cai`ma*cam", n. Etym: [Turk.]

Defn: The governor of a sanjak or district in Turkey.

CAIMAN
Cai"man, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cayman.

CAINOZOIC
Cai`no*zo"ic, a.

Defn: (Geol.) See Cenozic.

CAIQUE
Ca*ïque", n. Etym: [F., fr. Turk. qa\'c6q boat.] (Naut..)

Defn: A light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, a
Levantine vessel of larger size.

CA IRA
Ça"i*ra". Etym: [F. ça ira, ça ira, les aristocrates à la lanterne,
it shall go on, it shall go on, [hang]the arictocrats to the lantern
(lamp-post).]

Defn: The refrain of a famous song of the French Revolution.

CAIRD
Caird, n. Etym: [Ir. ceard a tinker.]

Defn: A traveling tinker; also a tramp or sturdy beggar. [Prov. Eng.]

CAIRN
Cairn, n. Etym: [Gael. carn, gen. cairn, a heap: cf. Ir. & W. carn.]

1. A rounded or conical heap of stones erected by early inhabitants
of the British Isles, apparently as a sepulchral monument.
Now here let us place the gray stone of her cairn. Campbell.

2. A pile of stones heaped up as a landmark, or to arrest attention,
as in surveying, or in leaving traces of an exploring party, etc. C.
Kingsley. Kane.

CAIRNGORMSTONE
Cairn*gorm"stone`. Etym: [Gael. carn a cairn + gorm azure.] (Min.)

Defn: A yellow or smoky brown variety of rock crystal, or
crystallized quartz, found esp, in the mountain of Cairngorm, in
Scotland.

CAISSON
Cais"son, n. Etym: [F., fr. caisse, case, chest. See 1st Case.]

1. (Mil.)
(a) A chest to hold ammunition.
(b) A four-wheeled carriage for conveying ammunition, consisting of
two parts, a body and a limber. In light field batteries there is one
caisson to each piece, having two ammunition boxes on the body, and
one on the limber. Farrow.
(c) A chest filled with explosive materials, to be laid in the way of
an enemy and exploded on his appoach.

2.
(a) A water-tight box, of timber or iron within which work is carried
on in building foundations or structures below the water level.
(b) A hollow floating box, usually of iron, which serves to close the
entrances of docks and basins.
(c) A structure, usually with an air chamber, placed beneath a vessel
to lift or float it.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A sunk panel of ceilings or soffits. Pneumatic caisson
(Engin.), a caisson, closed at the top but open at the bottom, and
resting upon the ground under water. The pressure of air forced into
the caisson keeps the water out. Men and materials are admitted to
the interior through an air lock. See Lock.

CAISSON DISEASE
Cais"son dis*ease". (Med.)

Defn: A disease frequently induced by remaining for some time in an
atmosphere of high pressure, as in caissons, diving bells, etc. It is
characterized by neuralgic pains and paralytic symptoms. It is
variously explained, most probably as due to congestion of internal
organs with subsequent stasis of the blood.

CAITIFF
Cai"tiff, a. Etym: [OE. caitif, cheitif, captive, miserable, OF.
caitif, chaitif, captive, mean, wretched, F. chétif, fr. L. captivus
captive, fr. capere to take, akin to E. heave. See Heave, and cf.
Captive.]

1. Captive; wretched; unfortunate. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Base; wicked and mean; cowardly; despicable.
Arnold had sped his caitiff flight. W. Irving.

CAITIFF
Cai"tiff, n.

Defn: A captive; a prisoner. [Obs.]
Avarice doth tyrannize over her caitiff and slave. Holland.

2. A wretched or unfortunate man. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. A mean, despicable person; one whose character meanness and
wickedness meet.

Note: The deep-felt conviction of men that slavery breaks down the
moral character . . . speaks out with . . . distinctness in the
change of meaning which caitiff has undergone signifying as it now
does, one of a base, abject disposition, while there was a time when
it had nothing of this in it. Trench.

CAJEPUT
Caj"e*put, n.

Defn: See Cajuput.

CAJOLE
Ca*jole", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cajoled; p. pr. & vb. n. Cajoling.]
Etym: [F. cajoler, orig., to chatter like a bird in a cage, to sing;
hence, to amuse with idle talk, to flatter, from the source of OF.
goale, jaiole, F. geôle, dim. of cage a cage. See Cage, Jail.]

Defn: To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle.
I am not about to cajole or flatter you into a reception of my views.
F. W. Robertson.

Syn.
 -- To flatter; wheedle; delude; coax; entrap.

CAJOLEMENT
Ca*jole"ment, n.

Defn: The act of cajoling; the state of being cajoled; cajolery.
Coleridge.

CAJOLER
Ca*jol"er, n.

Defn: A flatterer; a wheedler.

CAJOLERY
Ca*jol"er*y, n.; pl. Cajoleries (.

Defn: A wheedling to delude; words used in cajoling; flattery.
"Infamous cajoleries." Evelyn.

CAJUN
Ca"jun, n. [A corruption of Acadian.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: In Louisiana, a person reputed to be Acadian French descent.

CAJUPUT
Caj"u*put, n. Etym: [Of Malayan origin; kayu tree + putih white.]
(Med.)

Defn: A highly stimulating volatile infammable oil, distilled from
the leaves of an East Indian tree (Melaleuca cajuputi, etc.) It is
greenish in color and has a camphoraceous odor and pungent taste.

CAJUPUTENE
Caj"u*put*ene`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorlees or greenish oil extracted from cajuput.

CAKE
Cake, n. Etym: [OE. cake, kaak; akin to Dan. kage, Sw. & Icel. kaka,
D. koek, G.kuchem, OHG. chuocho.]

1. A small mass of dough baked; especially, a thin loaf from
unleavened dough; as, an oatmeal cake; johnnycake.

2. A sweetened composition of flour and other ingredients, leavened
or unleavened, baked in a loaf or mass of any size or shape.

3. A thin wafer-shaped mass of fried batter; a griddlecake or
pancake; as buckwheat cakes.

4. A mass of matter concreted, congealed, or molded into a solid mass
of any form, esp. into a form rather flat than high; as, a cake of
soap; an ague cake.
Cakes of rusting ice come rolling down the flood. Dryden.
Cake urchin (Zoöl), any species of flat sea urchins belonging to the
Clypeastroidea.
 -- Oil cake the refuse of flax seed, cotton seed, or other vegetable
substance from which oil has been expressed, compacted into a solid
mass, and used as food for cattle, for manure, or for other purposes.
 -- To have one's cake dough, to fail or be disappointed in what one
has undertaken or expected. Shak.

CAKE
Cake, v. i.

Defn: To form into a cake, or mass.

CAKE
Cake, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caked; p. pr. & vb. n. Caking.]

Defn: To concrete or consolidate into a hard mass, as dough in an
oven; to coagulate.
Clotted blood that caked within. Addison.

CAKE
Cake, v. i.

Defn: To cackle as a goose. [Prov. Eng.]

CAKING COAL
Cak"ing coal`.

Defn: See Coal.

CAL
Cal, n. (Cornish Mines)

Defn: Wolfram, an ore of tungsten. Simmonds.

CALABAR
Cal"a*bar, n.

Defn: A district on the west coast of Africa. Calabar bean, The of a
climbing legumious plant (Physostigma venenosum), a native of
tropical Africa. It is highly poisonous. It is used to produce
contraction of the pupil of the eye; also in tetanus, neuralgia, and
rheumatic diseases; -- called also ordeal bean, being used by the
negroes in trials for witchcraft.

CALABARINE
Cal"a*bar*ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid resembing physostigmine and occurring with it in
the calabar bean.

CALABASH
Cal"a*bash, n. Etym: [Sp. calabaza, or Pg. calaba, caba (cf. F.
Calebasse), lit., a dry gourd, fr. Ar. qar', fem., a kind of gourd +
aibas dry.]

1. The common gourd (plant or fruit).

2. The fruit of the calabash tree.

3. A water dipper, bottle, backet, or other utensil, made from the
dry shell of a calabash or gourd. Calabash tree. (Bot.), a tree of
tropical America (Crescentia cujete), producing a large gourdike
fruit, containing a purgative pulp. Its hard shell, after the removal
of the pulp, is used for cups, bottles, etc. The African calabash
tree is the baobab.

CALABOOSE
Cal`a*boose", n. Etym: [A corruption of Sp. calabozo dungeon.]

Defn: A prison; a jail. [Local, U. S.]

CALABOZO
Ca`la*bo"zo, n. [Sp.]

Defn: A jail. See Calaboose.

CALADE
Ca*lade", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A slope or declivity in a manege ground down which a horse is
made to gallop, to give suppleness to his haunches.

CALADIUM
Ca*la"di*um, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A genus of aroideous plants, of which some species are
cultivated for their immense leaves (which are often curiously
blotched with white and red), and others (in Polynesia) for food.

CALAITE
Cal"a*ite, n. Etym: [L. calaïs, Gr. calaïte.]

Defn: A mineral. See Turquoise.

CALAMANCO
Cal`a*man"co, n. Etym: [LL. calamancus, calamacus; cf. camelaucum; a
head covering made of camel's hair, NGr. calmande a woolen stuff.]

Defn: A glossy woolen stuff, plain, striped, or checked. "a gay
calamanco waistcoat." Tatler.

CALAMANDER WOOD
Cal"a*man`der wood.

Defn: A valuable furniture wood from India and Ceylon, of a hazel-
brown color, with black stripes, very hard in texture. It is a
species of ebony, and is obtained from the Diospyros qusesita. Called
also Coromandel wood.

CALAMAR; CALAMARY
Cal"a*mar, Cal"a*ma*ry, n. Etym: [LL. calamarium inkstand, fr. L.
calamus a reed pen: cf. F. calmar, calemar, pen case, calamar.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A cephalopod, belonging to the genus Loligo and related genera.
There are many species. They have a sack of inklike fluid which they
discharge from the siphon tube, when pursued or alarmed, in order to
confuse their enemies. Their shell is a thin horny plate, within the
flesh of back, shaped very much like a quill pen. In America they are
called squids. See Squid.

CALAMBAC
Cal"am*bac, n. Etym: [F. calambac, calambour, from Malay Kalambaq a
king of fragrant wood.] (Bot.)

Defn: A fragrant wood; agalloch.

CALAMBOUR
Cal"am*bour, n. Etym: [See Calambac.]

Defn: A species of agalloch, or aloes wood, of a dusky or mottled
color, of a light, friable texture, and less fragrant than calambac;
-- used by cabinetmakers.

CALAMIFEROUS
Cal`a*mif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. calamus reed + ferous.]

Defn: Producing reeds; reedy.

CALAMINE
Cal"a*mine, n. Etym: [F. calamine, LL. calamina, fr. L. Cabmia. See
Cadmia.] (min.)

Defn: A mineral, the hydrous silicate of zinc.

Note: The name was formerly applied to both the carbonate and
silicate of zinc each of which is valuabic as an ore; but it is now
usually restricted to the latter, the former being called
smithsonite.

CALAMINT
Cal"a*mint, n. Etym: [OE. calamint, calemente (cf. F. calament) fr.
L. calamintha, Gr. Mint.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of perennial plants (Calamintha) of the Mint family,
esp. the C. Nepela and C. Acinos, which are called also basil thyme.

CALAMIST
Cal"a*mist, n. Etym: [L. calamus a reed.]

Defn: One who plays upon a reed or pipe. [Obs.] Blount.

CALAMISTRATE
Cal`a*mis"trate, v. i. Etym: [L. calamistratus, curied with the
curling iron, fr. calamistrum curling iron, fr. calamus a reed.]

Defn: To curl or friz, as the hair. [Obs.] Cotgrave.

CALAMISTRATION
Cal`amis*tra"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of curling the hair. [Obs.] burton.

CALAMISTRUM
Cal`a*mis"trum, n. Etym: [L., a curling iron.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A comblike structure on the metatarsus of the hind legs of
certain spiders (Ciniflonidæ), used to curl certain fibers in the
construction of their webs.

CALAMITE
Cal"a*mite, n. Etym: [L. calamus a reed: cf. F. calamite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil plant of the coal formation, having the general form
of plants of the modern Equiseta (the Horsetail or Scouring Rush
family) but sometimes attaining the height of trees, and having the
stem more or less woody within. See Acrogen, and Asterophyllite.

CALAMITOUS
Ca*lam"i*tous, a. Etym: [L. Calamitosus; cf. F. calamiteux.]

1. Suffering calamity; wretched; miserable. [Obs.]
Ten thousands of calamitous persons. South.

2. Producing, or attended with distress and misery; making wretched;
wretched; unhappy. "This sad and calamitous condition." South. "A
calamitous prison" Milton.

Syn.
 -- Miserable; deplorable; distressful; afflictive; grievous;
baleful; disastrous; adverse; unhappy; severe; sad; unfortunate.
 -- Ca*lam"i*tous*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*lam"i*tous*ness, n.

CALAMITY
Ca*lam"i*ty n.; pl. Calamities. Etym: [L. calamitas, akin to in-
columis unharmed: cf. F. calamité]

1. Any great misfortune or cause of misery; -- generally applied to
events or disasters which produce extensive evil, either to
communities or individuals.

Note: The word calamity was first derived from calamus when the corn
could not get out of the stalk. Bacon.
Strokes of calamity that scathe and scorch the soul. W. Irving.

2. A state or time of distress or misfortune; misery.
The deliberations of calamity are rarely wise. Burke.
Where'er I came I brought calamity. Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- Disaster; distress; afflicition; adversity; misfortune;
unhappiness; infelicity; mishap; mischance; misery; evil; extremity;
exigency; downfall.
 -- Calamity, Disaster, Misfortune, Mishap, Mischance. Of these
words, calamity is the strongest. It supposes a somewhat continuous
state, produced not usually by the direct agency of man, but by
natural causes, such as fire, flood, tempest, disease, etc, Disaster
denotes literally ill-starred, and is some unforeseen and distressing
event which comes suddenly upon us, as if from hostile planet.
Misfortune is often due to no specific cause; it is simply the bad
fortune of an individual; a link in the chain of events; an evil
independent of his own conduct, and not to be charged as a fault.
Mischance and mishap are misfortunes of a trivial nature, occurring
usually to individuals. "A calamity is either public or private, but
more frequently the former; a disaster is rather particular than
private; it affects things rather than persons; journey, expedition,
and military movements are often attended with disasters; misfortunes
are usually personal; they immediately affect the interests of the
individual." Crabb.

CALAMUS
Cal"a*mus, n.; pl. Calami. Etym: [L., a reed. See Halm.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The indian cane, a plant of the Palm family. It furnishes the
common rattan. See Rattan, and Dragon's blood.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Acorus (A. calamus), commonly called calamus, or
sweet flag. The root has a pungent, aromatic taste, and is used in
medicine as a stomachic; the leaves have an aromatic odor, and were
formerly used instead of rushes to strew on floors.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The horny basal portion of a feather; the barrel or quill.

CALANDO
Ca*lan"do, a. Etym: [It.]

Defn: (Mus.) Gradually diminishing in rapidity and loudness.

CALASH
Ca*lash", n. Etym: [F. calèche; of Slavonic origin; cf. Bohem.
kolesa, Russ. koliaska calash, koleso, kolo, wheel.]

1. A light carriage with low wheels, having a top or hood that can be
raised or lowered, seats for inside, a separate seat for the driver,
and often a movable front, so that it can be used as either an open
or a close carriage.
The baroness in a calash capable of holding herself, her two
children, and her servants. W. Irving.

2. In Canada, a two-wheeled, one-seated vehicle, with a calash top,
and the driver's seat elevated in front.

3. A hood or top of a carriage which can be thrown back at pleasure.

4. A hood, formerly worn by ladies, which could be drawn forward or
thrown back like the top of a carriage.

CALAVERAS SKULL
Ca`la*ve"ras skull.

Defn: A human skull reported, by Prof. J. D. Whitney, as found in
1886 in a Tertiary auriferous gravel deposit, lying below a bed of
black lava, in Calaveras County, California. It is regarded as very
doubtful whether the skull really belonged to the deposit in which it
was found. If it did, it indicates an unprecedented antiquity for
human beings of an advanced type.

CALAVERITE
Ca`la*ve"rite (, n. (Min.)

Defn: A bronze-yellow massive mineral with metallic luster; a
telluride of gold; -- first found in Calaveras County California.

CALCANEAL
Cal*ca"ne*al, a. (Anal.)

Defn: Pertaining to the calcaneum; as, calcaneal arteries.

CALCANEUM
Cal*ca"ne*um n.; pl. E. -neums, L. -nea. Etym: [L. the heel, fr.
calx, calcis, the heel.] (Anal.)

Defn: One of the bones of the tarsus which in man, forms the great
bone of the heel; -- called also fibulare.

CALCAR
Cal"car, n. Etym: [L. calcaria lime kiln, fr. calx, calcis, lime. See
Calx.] (Glass manuf.)

Defn: A kind of oven, or reverberatory furnace, used for the
calcination of sand and potash, and converting them into frit. Ure.

CALCAR
Cal"car, n.; L. pl. Calcaria. Etym: [L., a pur, as worn on the heel,
also the spur of a cock, fr. calx, calcis, the heel.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A hollow tube or spur at the base of a petal or corolla.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A slender bony process from the ankle joint of bats, which
helps to support the posterior part of the web, in flight.

3. (Anat.)
(a) A spur, or spurlike prominence.
(b) A curved ridge in the floor of the leteral ventricle of the
brain; the calcar avis, hippocampus minor, or ergot.

CALCARATE; CALCARATED
Cal"ca*rate, Cal"ca*ra`ted, a. Etym: [LL. calcaratus, fr. L. calcar.
See 2d Calcar.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a spur, as the flower of the toadflax and larkspur;
spurred. Gray.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Armed with a spur.

CALCAREO-ARGILLACEOUS
Cal*ca"re*o-ar`gil*la"ceous, a.

Defn: consisting of, or containing, calcareous and argillaceous
earths.

CALCAREO-BITUMINOUS
Cal*ca"re*o-bi*tu"mi*nous, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, lime and bitumen. Lyell.

CALCAREO-SILICEOUS
Cal*ca"re*o-si*li"ceous, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing calcareous and siliceous earths.

CALCAREOUS
Cal*ca"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. calcarius pertaining to lime. See Calx.]

Defn: Partaking of the nature ofcalcite or calcium carbonate;
consisting of, or containg, calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime.
Clcareous spar. See as Calcite.

CALCAREOUSNESS
Cal*ca"re*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being calcareous.

CALCARIFEROUS
Cal`ca*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. calcarius of lime + ferous.]

Defn: Lime-yielding; calciferous

CALCARINE
Cal"ca*rine, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or situated near, the calcar of the brain.

CALCAVELLA
Cal`ca*vel"la, n.

Defn: A sweet wine from Portugal; -- so called from the district of
Carcavelhos. [Written also Calcavellos or Carcavelhos.]

CALCEATED
Cal"ce*a"ted, a. Etym: [L. calceatus, p. p. of pelceare to ahoe, fr.
catceus shoe, fr. calx, calcic, heel.]

Defn: Fitted with, or wearing, shoes. Johnson.

CALCED
Calced, a. Etym: [See Calceated.]

Defn: Wearing shoes; calceated; -- in distintion from discalced or
barefooted; as the calced Carmelites.

CALCEDON
Cal"ce*don, n. Etym: [See Chalcedony.]

Defn: A foul vein, like chalcedony, in some precious stones.

CALCEDONIC; CALCEDONIAN
Cal`ce*don"ic, Cal`ce*do"ni*an, a.

Defn: See Chalcedonic.

CALCEIFORM
Cal"ce*i*form`, a. Etym: [L. calceus shoe + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a plipper, as one petal of the lady's-slipper;
calceolate.

CALCEOLARIA
cal`ce*o*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. calceolarius shoemaker, fr.
calceolus, a dim. of calceus shoe.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of showy herbaceous or shrubby plant, biought from
South America; slipperwort. It has a yellow or purple flower, often
spotted or striped, the shape of which suggests its name.

CALCEOLATE
Cal"ce*o*late, a. Etym: [See Calceolaria.]

Defn: Slipper-ahaped. See Calceiform.

CALCES
Cal"ces, n. pl.

Defn: See Calx.

CALCIC
Cal"cic, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime: cf. F. calcique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, calcium or lime.

CALCIFEROUS
Cal*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -
ferous.]

Defn: Bearing producing, or containing calcite, or carbonate of lime.
Calciferouse epoch (Geol.), and epoch in the American lower Silurian
system, immediately succeeding the Cambrian period. The name alludes
to the peculiar mixture of calcareous and siliceous characteristics
in many of the beds. See the Diagram under Grology.

CALCIFIC
Cal*cif"ic, a.

Defn: Calciferous. Specifically: (Zoöl.) of or pertaining to hte
portion of the which forms the eggshell in birds and reptiles.
Huxley.

CALCIFICATION
Cal`ci*fi*ca"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The process of chenge into a stony or calcareous substance by
the deposition of lime salt; -- normally, as in the formation of bone
and teeth; abnormally, as in calcareous degeneration of tissue.

CALCIFIED
Cal"ci*fied, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, calcareous matter or lime salts;
calcareous.

CALCIFORM
Cal"ci*form, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -form.]

Defn: In the form of chalk or lime.

CALCIFY
Cal"ci*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Calcified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calcifying.] Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -fy.]

Defn: To make stony or calcareous by the deposit or secretion of
salts of lime.

CALCIFY
Cal"ci*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become changed into a stony or calcareous condition, in lime
is a principal ingredient, as in the formation of teeth.

CALCIGENOUS
Cal*cig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -genouse.] (Chem.)

Defn: Tending to form, or to become, a calx or earthlike substance on
being oxidized or burnt; as magnesium, calcium. etc.

CALCIGEROUS
Cal*cig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -gerouse.]

Defn: Holding lime or other earthy salts; as, the calcigerous cells
of the teeth.

CALCIMINE
Cal"ci*mine, n. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime.]

Defn: A white or colored wash for the ceiling or other plastering of
a room, consisting of a mixture of clear glue, Paris white or zinc
white, and water. [Also spelt kalsomine.]

CALCIMINE
Cal"ci*mine, v. t. [imp. &p. p. Calcimined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calcimining.]

Defn: To wash or cover with calcimine; as, to calcimine walls.

CALCIMINER
Cal"ci*mi`ner, n.

Defn: One who calcimines.

CALCINABLE
Cal*cin"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be calcined; as, a calcinable fossil.

CALCINATE
Cal"ci*nate, v. i.

Defn: To calcine. [R.]

CALCINATION
Cal`ci*na"tion, n. Etym: [F. calcination.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process of disintegrating a substance, or rendering
it friable by the action of heat, esp. by the expulsion of some
volatile matter, as when carbonic and acid is expelled from carbonate
of calcium in the burning of limestone in order to make lime.

2. The act or process of reducing a metal to an oxide or metallic
calx; oxidation.

CALCINATORY
Cal*cin"a*to*ry, n.

Defn: A vessel used in calcination.

CALCINE
Cal*cine", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calciden; p. pr. & vb. n. Calcining.]
Etym: [F. calciner, fr. L. calx, calcis, lime. See Calx.]

1. To reduce to a powder, or to a friable state, by the action of
heat; to expel volatile matter from by means of heat, as carbonic
acid from limestone, and thus (usually) to produce disintegration; as
to, calcine bones.

2. To oxidize, as a metal by the action of heat; to reduce to a
metallic calx.

CALCINE
Cal*cine", v. i.

Defn: To be convereted into a powder or friable substance, or into a
calx, by the action of heat. "Calcining without fusion" Newton.

CALCINER
Cal*cin"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, calcines.

CALCISPONGIAE
Cal`ci*spon"gi*æ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. calx, calcis, lime +
spongia a sponge.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of marine sponges, containing calcareous spicules. See
Porifera.

CALCITE
Cal"cite, n. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime.] (Min.)

Defn: Calcium carbonate, or carbonate of lime. It is rhombohedral in
its crystallization, and thus distinguished from aragonite. It
includes common limestone, chalk, and marble. Called also calc-spar
and calcareous spar.

Note: Argentine is a pearly lamellar variety; aphrite is foliated or
chalklike; dogtooth spar, a form in acute rhombohedral or
scalenohedral crystals; calc-sinter and calc-tufa are lose or porous
varieties formed in caverns or wet grounds from calcareous deposits;
agaric mineral is a soft, white friable variety of similar origin;
stalaclite and stalagmite are varieties formed from the drillings in
caverns. Iceland spar is a transparent variety, exhibiting the strong
double refraction of the species, and hence is called doubly
refracting spar.

CALCITRANT
Cal"ci*trant, a. Etym: [L. calcitrans, p. pr. of calcitrare to kick,
fr. calx, calcis , heel.]

Defn: Kicking. Hence: Stubborn; refractory.

CALCITRATE
Cal"ci*trate, v. i. & i. Etym: [L. calcitratus, p. p. of calcitrare.
See Calcitrant.]

Defn: To kick.

CALCITRATION
Cal`ci*tra"tion, n.

Defn: Act of kicking.

CALCIUM
Cal"ci*um, n. Etym: [NL., from L. calx, calcis, lime; cf F. calcium.
See Calx.] (Chem.)

Defn: An elementary substance; a metal which combined with oxygen
forms lime. It is of a pale yellow color, tenacious, and malleable.
It is a member of the alkaline earth group of elements. Atomic weight
40. Symbol Ca.

Note: Calcium is widely and abundantly disseminated, as in its
compounds calcium carbonate or limestone, calcium sulphate or gypsum,
calcium fluoride or fluor spar, calcium phosphate or apatite. Calcium
light, an intense light produced by the incandescence of a stick or
ball of lime in the flame of a combination of oxygen and hydrogen
gases, or of oxygen and coal gas; -- called also Drummond light.

CALCIVOROUS
Cal*civ"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. calx lime + vorare to devour.]

Defn: Eroding, or eating into, limestone.

CALCOGRAPHER
Cal*cog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who practices calcography.

CALCOGRAPHIC; CALCOGRAPHICAL
Cal`co*graph"ic, Cal`co*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to, or in the style of, calcography.

CALCOGRAPHY
Cal*cog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime, chalk + -graphy.]

Defn: The art of drawing with chalk.

CALC-SINTER
Calc"-sin`ter, n. Etym: [G. kalk (L. calx, calcis) lime + E. sinter.]

Defn: See under Calcite.

CALC-SPAR
Calc"-spar`, n. Etym: [G. kalk (L. calx) lime E. spar.]

Defn: Same as Calcite.

CALC-TUFA
Calc"-tu`fa, n. Etym: [G. kalk (l. calx) lime + E. tufa.]

Defn: See under Calcite.

CALCULABLE
Cal"cu*la*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. calculable.]

Defn: That may be calculated or ascertained by calculation.

CALCULARY
Cal"cu*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. calculus a pebble, a calculus; cf
calcularius pertaining to calculation.] (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to calculi.

CALCULARY
Cal"cu*la*ry, n.

Defn: A congeries of little stony knots found in the pulp of the pear
and other fruits.

CALCULATE
Cal"cu*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calculater; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calculating.] Etym: [L, calculatus, p. p. of calculate, fr. calculus
a pebble, a stone used in reckoning; hence, a reckoning, fr. calx,
calcis, a stone used in gaming, limestone. See Calx.]

1. To ascertain or determine by mathematical processes, usually by
the ordinary rules of arithmetic; to reckon up; to estimate; to
compute.
A calencar exacity calculated than any othe. North.

2. To ascertain or predict by mathematical or astrological
computations the time, circumstances, or other conditions of; to
forecast or compute the character or consequences of; as, to
calculate or cast one's nativity.
A cunning man did calculate my birth. Shak.

3. To adjust for purpose; to adapt by forethought or calculation; to
fit or prepare by the adaptation of means to an end; as, to calculate
a system of laws for the government and protection of a free people.
[Religion] is . . . calculated for our benefit. Abp. Tillotson.

4. To plan; to expect; to think. [Local, U. S.]

Syn.
 -- To compute; reckon; count; estimate; rate.
 -- To Calculate, Compute. Reckon, Count. These words indicate the
means by which we arrive at a given result in regard to quantity. We
calculate with a view to obtain a certain point of knowledge; as, to
calculate an eclipse. We compute by combining given numbers, in order
to learn the grand result. We reckon and count in carrying out the
details of a computation. These words are also used in a secondary
and figurative sense. "Calculate is rather a conjection from what is,
as to what may be; computation is a rational estimate of what has
been, from what is; reckoning is a conclusive conviction, a pleasing
assurance that a thing will happen; counting indicates an
expectation. We calculate on a gain; we compute any loss sustained,
or the amount of any mischief done; we reckon on a promised pleasure;
we count the hours and minutes until the time of enjoyment arrives"
Crabb.

CALCULATE
Cal"cu*late, v. i.

Defn: To make a calculation; to forecast caonsequences; to estimate;
to compute.
The strong passions, whether good or bad, never calculate. F. W.
Robertson.

CALCULATED
Cal"cu*la`ted, p. p. & a.

1. Worked out by calculation; as calculated tables for computing
interest; ascertained or conjectured as a result of calculation; as,
the calculated place of a planet; the calculated velocity of a cannon
ball.

2. Adapted by calculation, contrivance. or forethought to accomplish
a purpose; as, to use arts calculated to deceive the people.

3. Likely to produce a certain effect, whether intended or not;
fitted; adapted; suited.
The only danger that attends multiplicity of publication is, that
some of them may be calculated to injure rather than benefit society.
Goldsmith.
The minister, on the other hand, had never gone through an experience
calculated to lead him beyond the scope of generally received laws.
Hawthorne.

CALCULATING
Cal"cu*la`ting, a.

1. Of or pertaining to mathematical calculations; performing or able
to perform mathematical calculations.

2. Given to contrivance or forethought; forecasting; scheming; as, a
cool calculating disposition. Calculating machine, a machine for the
mechanical performance of mathematical operations, for the most part
invented by Charles Babbage and G. and E. Scheutz. It computes
logarithmic and other mathematical tables of a high degree of
intricacy, imprinting the results on a leaden plate, from which a
stereotype plate is then directly made.

CALCULATING
Cal"cu*la`ting, n.

Defn: The act or process of making mathematical computations or of
estimating results.

CALCULATION
Cal`cu*la"tion, n. Etym: [OE. calculation, fr. L. calculatio; cf. OF.
calcucation.]

1. The act or process, or the result, of calculating; computation;
reckoning, estimate. "The calculation of eclipses." Nichol.
The mountain is not so his calculation makes it. Boyle.

2. An expectation based on cirumstances.
The lazy gossips of the port, Abborrent of a calculation crost, Began
to chafe as at a personal wrong. Tennyson.

CALCULATIVE
Cal"cu*la*tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to calculation; involving calculation.
Long habits of calculative dealings. Burke.

CALCULATOR
Cal"cu*la*tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. calculateur.]

Defn: One who computes or reckons: one who estimates or considers the
force and effect of causes, with a view to form a correct estimate of
the effects.
Ambition is no exact calculator. Burke.

CALCULATORY
Cal"cu*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. calculatorius.]

Defn: Belonging to calculation. Sherwood.

CALCULE
Cal"cule, n. Etym: [F. calcul, fr. L. calculus. See Calculus.]

Defn: Reckoning; computation. [Obs.] Howell.

CALCULE
Cal"cule, v. i.

Defn: To calculate [Obs.] Chaucer.

CALCULI
Cal"cu*li, n. pl.

Defn: See Calculus.

CALCULOUS
Cal"cu*lous, a. Etym: [L. calculosus.]

1. Of the nature of a calculus; like stone; gritty; as, a calculous
concretion. Sir T. Browne.

2. Caused, or characterized, by the presence of a calculus or
calculi; a, a calculous disorder; affected with gravel or stone; as,
a calculous person.

CALCULUS
Cal"cu*lus, n.; pl. Calculi Etym: [L, calculus. See Calculate, and
Calcule.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Any solid concretion, formed in any part of the body, but most
frequent in the organs that act as reservoirs, and in the passages
connected with them; as, biliary calculi; urinary calculi, etc.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A method of computation; any process of reasoning by the use of
symbols; any branch of mathematics that may involve calculation.
Barycentric calculus, a method of treating geometry by defining a
point as the center of gravity of certain other points to which
coëfficients or weights are ascribed.
 -- Calculus of functions, that branch of mathematics which treats of
the forms of functions that shall satisfy given conditions.
 -- Calculus of operations, that branch of mathematical logic that
treats of all operations that satisfy given conditions.
 -- Calculus of probabilities, the science that treats of the
computation of the probabilities of events, or the application of
numbers to chance.
 -- Calculus of variations, a branch of mathematics in which the laws
of dependence which bind the variable quantities together are
themselves subject to change.
 -- Differential calculus, a method of investigating mathematical
questions by using the ratio of certain indefinitely small quantities
called differentials. The problems are primarily of this form: to
find how the change in some variable quantity alters at each instant
the value of a quantity dependent upon it.
 -- Exponential calculus, that part of algebra which treats of
exponents.
 -- Imaginary calculus, a method of investigating the relations of
real or imaginary quantities by the use of the imaginary symbols and
quantities of algebra.
 -- Integral calculus, a method which in the reverse of the
differential, the primary object of which is to learn from the known
ratio of the indefinitely small changes of two or more magnitudes,
the relation of the magnitudes themselves, or, in other words, from
having the differential of an algebraic expression to find the
expression itself.

CALDRON
Cal"dron, n. Etym: [OE. caldron, caudron, caudroun, OF. caudron,
chauderon, F. chaudron, an aug. of F. chaudière, LL. caldaria, fr. L.
caldarius suitable for warming, fr. caldus, calidus, warm, fr. calere
to be warm; cf. Skr. çra to boil. Cf. Chaldron, Calaric, Caudle.]

Defn: A large kettle or boiler of copper, brass, or iron. [Written
also cauldron.] "Caldrons of boiling oil." Prescott.

CALECHE
Ca*lèche", n. Etym: [F. calèche.]

Defn: See Calash.

CALEDONIA
Cal`e*do"ni*a, n.

Defn: The ancient Latin name of Scotland; -- still used in poetry.

CALEDONIAN
Cal`e*do"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Caledonia or Scotland; Scottish; Scotch.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Caledonia or Scotland.

CALEDONITE
Ca*led"o*nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous sulphate of copper and lead, found in some parts of
Caledonia or Scotland.

CALEFACIENT
Cal`e*fa"cient, a. Etym: [L. calefaciens p. pr. of calefacere to make
warm; calere to be warm + facere to make.]

Defn: Making warm; heating. [R.]

CALEFACIENT
Cal`e*fa"cient, n.

Defn: A substance that excites warmth in the parts to which it is
applied, as mustard.

CALEFACTION
Cal`e*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. calefactio: cf. F. caléfaction.]

1. The act of warming or heating; the production of heat in a body by
the action of fire, or by communication of heat from other bodies.

2. The state of being heated.

CALEFACTIVE
Cal`e*fac"tive, a.

Defn: See Calefactory. [R.]

CALEFACTOR
Cal`e*fac"tor, n.

Defn: A heater; one who, or that which, makes hot, as a stove, etc.

CALEFACTORY
Cal`e*fac"to*ry, a. Etym: [L. calefactorius.]

Defn: Making hot; producing or communicating heat.

CALEFACTORY
Cal`e*fac"to*ry, n.

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: An apartment in a monastery, warmed and used as a sitting room.

2. A hollow sphere of metal, filled with hot water, or a chafing
dish, placed on the altar in cold weather for the priest to warm his
hands with.

CALEFY
Cal"e*fy, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calefied; p. pr. & vb. n. Calefying.]
Etym: [L. calere to be warm + -fy]

Defn: To make warm or hot.

CALEFY
Cal"e*fy, v. i.

Defn: To grow hot or warm. Sir T. Browne.

CALEMBOUR
Cal"em*bour`, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A pun.

CALENDAR
Cal"en*dar, n. Etym: [OE. kalender, calender, fr. L. kalendarium an
interest or account book (cf. F. calendrier, OF. calendier) fr. L.
calendue, kalendae, calends. See Calends.]

1. An orderly arrangement of the division of time, adapted to the
purposes of civil life, as years, months, weeks, and days; also, a
register of the year with its divisions; an almanac.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A tabular statement of the dates of feasts, offices, saints'
days, etc., esp. of those which are liable to change yearly according
to the varying date of Easter.

3. An orderly list or enumeration of persons, things, or events; a
schedule; as, a calendar of state papers; a calendar of bills
presented in a legislative assemblly; a calendar of causes arranged
for trial in court; a calendar of a college or an academy.

Note: Shepherds of people had need know the calendars of tempests of
state. Bacon. Calendar clock, one that shows the days of the week and
month.
 -- Calendar month. See under Month.
 -- French Republican calendar. See under Vendémiaire.
 -- Gregorian calendar, Julian calendar, Perpetual calendar. See
under Gregorian, Julian, and Perpetual.

CALENDAR
Cal"en*dar, v. t. [Imp. & p. p. Calendared; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calendaring.]

Defn: To enter or write in a calendar; to register. Waterhouse.

CALENDARIAL
Cal`en*da"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the calendar or a calendar.

CALENDARY
Cal"en*da*ry, a.

Defn: Calendarial. [Obs.]

CALENDER
Cal"en*der, n. Etym: [F. calandre, LL. calendra, corrupted fr. L.
cylindrus a cylinder, Gr. Cylinider.]

1. A machine, used for the purpose of giving cloth, paper, etc., a
smooth, even, and glossy or glazed surface, by cold or hot pressure,
or for watering them and giving them a wavy appearance. It consists
of two or more cylinders revolving nearly in contact, with the
necessary apparatus for moving and regulating.

2. One who pursues the business of calendering.
My good friend the calender. Cawper.

CALENDER
Cal"en*der, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calendered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calendering.] Etym: [Cf. F. calandrer. See Calender, n.]

Defn: To press between rollers for the purpose of making smooth and
glossy, or wavy, as woolen and silk stuffs, linens, paper, etc. Ure.

CALENDER
Cal"en*der, n. Etym: [Per. qalender.]

Defn: One of a sect or order of fantastically dressed or painted
dervishes.

CALENDOGRAPHER
Cal`en*dog"ra*pher, n. Etym: [Calendar + -graph + er.]

Defn: One who makes calendars. [R.]

CALENDRER
Cal"en*drer, n.

Defn: A person who calenders cloth; a calender.

CALENDRIC; CALENDRICAL
Ca*len"dric, Ca*len"dric*al, a.,

Defn: Of or pertaining to a calendar.

CALENDS
Cal"ends, n. pl. Etym: [OE. kalendes month, calends, AS. calend
month, fr. L. calendae; akin to calare to call, proclaim, Gr. Claim.]

Defn: The first day of each month in the ancient Roman calendar.
[Written also kalends.] The Greek calends, a time that will never
come, as the Greeks had no calends.

CALENDULA
Ca*len"du*la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. calendae calends.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of composite herbaceous plants. One species, Calendula
officinalis, is the common marigold, and was supposed to blossom on
the calends of every month, whence the name.

CALENDULIN
Ca*len"du*lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A gummy or mucilaginous tasteless substance obtained from the
marigold or calendula, and analogous to bassorin.

CALENTURE
Cal"en*ture, n. Etym: [F. calenture, fr. Sp. calenture heat, fever,
fr. calentar to heat, fr. p. pr. of L. calere to be warm.] (Med.)

Defn: A name formerly given to various fevers occuring in tropics;
esp. to a form of furious delirium accompanied by fever, among
sailors, which sometimes led the affected person to imagine the sea
to be a green field, and to throw himself into it.

CALENTURE
Cal"en*ture, v. i.

Defn: To see as in the delirium of one affected with calenture.
[Poetic]
Hath fed on pageants floating through the air Or calentures in depths
of limpid flood. Wordsworth.

CALESCENCE
Ca*les"cence, n. Etym: [L. calescens, p.pr. of calescere, incho. of
calere to be warm.]

Defn: Growing warmth; increasing heat.

CALF
Calf, n.; pl. Calves. Etym: [OE. calf, kelf, AS. cealf; akin to D.
kalf, G. kalb, Icel. kalfr, Sw. kalf, Dan. kalv, Goth. kalbo; cf.
Skr. garbha fetus, young, Gr. grabh to seize, conceive, Ir. colpa,
colpach, a calf. *222.]

1. The young of the cow, or of the Bovine family of quadrupeds. Also,
the young of some other mammals, as of the elephant, rhinoceros,
hippopotamus, and whale.

2. Leather made of the skin of the calf; especially, a fine, light-
colored leather used in bookbinding; as, to bind books in calf.

3. An awkward or silly boy or young man; any silly person; a dolt.
[Colloq.]
Some silly, doting, brainless calf. Drayton.

4. A small island near a larger; as, the Calf of Man.

5. A small mass of ice set free from the submerged part of a glacier
or berg, and rising to the surface. Kane.

6. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kalfi.]

Defn: The fleshy hinder part of the leg below the knee. Calf's-foot
jelly, jelly made from the feet of calves. The gelatinous matter of
the feet is extracted by boiling, and is flavored with sugar,
essences, etc.

CALFSKIN
Calf"skin`, n.

Defn: The hide or skin of a calf; or leather made of the skin.

CALI
Ca"li, n. (Hindoo Myth.)

Defn: The tenth avatar or incarnation of the god Vishnu. [Written
also Kali.]

CALIBER; CALIBRE
Cal"i*ber, Cal"ibre, n. Etym: [F. calibre, perh. fr. L. qualibra of
what pound, of what weight; hence, of what size, applied first to a
ball or bullet; cf. also Ar. qalib model, mold. Cf. Calipers,
Calivere.]

1. (Gunnery)

Defn: The diameter of the bore, as a cannon or other firearm, or of
any tube; or the weight or size of the projectile which a firearm
will carry; as, an 8 inch gun, a 12-pounder, a 44 caliber.
The caliber of empty tubes. Reid.
A battery composed of three guns of small caliber. Prescott.

Note: The caliber of firearms is expressed in various ways. Cannon
are often designated by the weight of a solid spherical shot that
will fit the bore; as, a 12-pounder; pieces of ordnance that project
shell or hollow shot are designated by the diameter of their bore;
as, a 12 inch mortar or a 14 inch shell gun; small arms are
designated by hundredths of an inch expressed decimally; as, a rifle
of .44 inch caliber.

2. The diameter of round or cylindrical body, as of a bullet or
column.

3. Fig.: Capacity or compass of mind. Burke. Caliber compasses. See
Calipers.
 -- Caliber rule, a gunner's calipers, an instrument having two
scales arranged to determine a ball's weight from its diameter, and
conversely.
 -- A ship's caliber, the weight of her armament.

CALIBRATE
Cal"i*brate, v. i.

Defn: To ascertain the caliber of, as of a thermometer tube; also,
more generally, to determine or rectify the graduation of, as of the
various standards or graduated instruments.

CALIBRATION
Cal`ibra"*tion, n.

Defn: The process of estimating the caliber a tube, as of a
thermometer tube, in order to graduate it to a scale of degrees;
also, more generally, the determination of the true value of the
spaces in any graduated instrument.

CALICE
Cal"ice, n. Etym: [See Calice.]

Defn: See Chalice.

CALICLE
Cal"i*cle, n. Etym: [L. caliculus a small cup, dim. of calicis, a
cup. Cf Calycle.] (Zoöl.)
(a) One of the small cuplike cavities, often with elevated borders,
covering the surface of most corals. Each is formed by a polyp. (b)
One of the cuplike structures inclosing the zooids of certain
hydroids. See Campanularian. [Written also calycle. See Calycle.]

CALICO
Cal"i*co, n.; pl. Calicoes. Etym: [So called because first imported
from Calicut, in the East Indies: cf. F. calicot.]

1. Plain white cloth made from cotton, but which receives distinctive
names according to quality and use, as, super calicoes, shirting
calicoes, unbleached calicoes, etc. [Eng.]
The importation of printed or stained colicoes appears to have been
coeval with the establishment of the East India Company. Beck
(Draper's Dict. ).

2. Cotton cloth printed with a figured pattern.

Note: In the United States the term calico is applied only to the
printed fabric. Calico bass (Zoöl.), an edible, fresh-water fish
(Pomoxys sparaides) of the rivers and lake of the Western United
States (esp. of the Misissippi valley.), allied to the sunfishes, and
so called from its variegated colors; -- called also calicoback,
grass bass, strawberry bass, barfish, and bitterhead.
 -- Calico printing, the art or process of impressing the figured
patterns on calico.

CALICO
Cal"i*co, a.

Defn: Made of, or having the apperance of, calico; -- often applied
to an animal, as a horse or cat, on whose body are large patches of a
color strikingly different from its main color. [Colloq. U. S.]

CALICOBACK
Cal"i*co*back`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The calico bass.
(b) An hemipterous insect (Murgantia histrionica) which injures the
cabbage and other garden plants; -- called also calico bug and
harlequin cabbage bug.

CALICULAR; CALICULATE
Ca*lic"u*lar, a. Ca*lic"u*late, a.

Defn: Relating to, or resembling, a cup; also improperly used for
calycular, calyculate.

CALID
Cal"id, a. Etym: [L. calidus, fr. calere to be hot.]

Defn: Hot; burning; ardent. [Obs.] Bailey.

CALIDITY
Ca*lid"i*ty, n.

Defn: Heat. [Obs.]

CALIDUCT
Cal"i*duct, n. Etym: [See Caloriduct.]

Defn: A pipe or duct used to convey hot air or steam.
Subterranean caliducts have been introduced. Evelyn.

CALIF; CALIFATE
Ca"lif, n., Cal"i*fate, n., etc.

Defn: Same as Caliph, Caliphate, etc.

CALIFORNIA JACK
Cal`i*for"ni*a jack".

Defn: A game at cards, a modification of seven-up, or all fours.

CALIFORNIAN
Cal`i*for"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to California.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of California.

CALIGATION
Cal`i*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. caligatio, fr. caligare to emit vapor, to
be dark, from caligo mist, darkness.]

Defn: Dimness; cloudiness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

CALIGINOSITY
Ca*lig`i*nos"ity, n. Etym: [L. caliginosus dark. See Caligation.]

Defn: Darkness. [R.] G. Eliot.

CALIGINOUS
Ca*lig"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. caliginosus; cf. F. caligineux.]

Defn: Affected with darkness or dimness; dark; obscure. [R.] Blount.
The caliginous regions of the air. Hallywell.
-- Ca*lig"i*nous*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*lig"i*nous*ness, n.

CALIGO
Ca*li"go, n. Etym: [L., darkness.] (Med.)

Defn: Dimness or obscurity of sight, dependent upon a speck on the
cornea; also, the speck itself.

CALIGRAPHIC
Cal`i*graph"ic, a.

Defn: See Calligraphic.

CALIGRAPHY
Ca*lig"ra*phy, n.

Defn: See Caligraphy.

CALIN
Ca"lin, n. Etym: [F., fr. Malay kelany tin, or fr. Kala'a, a town in
India, fr. which it came.]

Defn: An alloy of lead and tin, of which the Chinese make tea
canisters.

CALIPASH
Cal`i*pash", n. Etym: [F. carapace, Sp. carapacho. Cf Calarash,
Carapace.]

Defn: A part of a turtle which is next to the upper shell. It
contains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a dull greenish tinge,
much esteemed as a delicacy in preparations of turtle.

CALIPEE
Cal"i*pee, n. Etym: [See Calipash]

Defn: A part of a turtle which is attached to the lower shell. It
contains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a light yellowish color,
much esteemed as a delicacy. Thackeray.

CALIPERS
Cal"i*pers, n. pl. Etym: [Corrupted from caliber.]

Defn: An instrument, usually resembling a pair of dividers or
compasses with curved legs, for measuring the diameter or thickness
of bodies, as of work shaped in a lathe or planer, timber, masts,
shot, etc.; or the bore of firearms, tubes, etc.; -- called also
caliper compasses, or caliber compasses. Caliper square, a
draughtsman's or mechanic's square, having a graduated bar and
adjustable jaw or jaws. Knight.
 -- Vernier calipers. See Vernier.

CALIPH
Ca"liph, n. Etym: [OE. caliphe, califfe, F. calife (cf. Sp. califa),
fr. Ar. khalifan successor, fr. khalafa to succed.]

Defn: Successor or vicar; -- a title of the successors of Mohammed
both as temporal and spiritual rulers, now used by the sultans of
Turkey, [Writting also calif.]

CALIPHATE
Cal"i*phate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. califat.]

Defn: The office, dignity, or government of a caliph or of the
caliphs.

CALIPPIC
Ca*lip"pic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Calippus, an Athenian astronomer. Calippic
period, a period of seventy-six years, proposed by Calippus, as an
improvement on the Metonic cycle, since the 6940 days of the Metonic
cycle exceeded 19 years by about a quarter of a day, and exceeded 235
lunations by something more.

CALISAYA BARK
Cal`i*sa"ya bark.

Defn: A valuable kind of Peruvian bark obtained from the Cinchona
Calisaya, and other closely related species.

CALISTHENEUM
Cal`is*the"ne*um, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A gymnasium; esp. one for light physical exercise by women and
children.

CALISTHENIC
Cal`is*then"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to calisthenics.

CALISTHENICS
Cal`is*then"ics, n.

Defn: The science, art, or practice of healthful exercise of the body
and limbs, to promote strength and gracefulness; light gymnastics.

CALIVER
Cal"i*ver, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. caliber.]

Defn: An early form of hand gun, variety of the arquebus; originally
a gun having a regular size of bore. [Obs.] Shak.

CALIX
Ca"lix, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A cup. See Calyx.

CALK
Calk, v. t. [imp. &p. p. Calked; p. pr. & vb. n. Calking.] Etym:
[Either corrupted fr. F. calfater (cf. Pg. calafetar, Sp.
calafetear), fr. Ar. qalafa to fill up crevices with the fibers of
palm tree or moss; or fr. OE. cauken to tred, through the French fr.
L. calcare, fr. calx heel. Cf. Calk to copy, Inculcate.]

1. To drive tarred oakum into the seams between the planks of (a
ship, boat, etc.), to prevent leaking. The calking is completed by
smearing the seams with melted pitch.

2. To make an indentation in the edge of a metal plate, as along a
seam in a steam boiler or an iron ship, to force the edge of the
upper plate hard against the lower and so fill the crevice.

CALK
Calk, v. t. Etym: [E.calquer to trace, It. caicare to trace, to
trample, fr. L. calcare to trample, fr. calx heel. Cf. Calcarate.]

Defn: To copy, as a drawing, by rubbing the back of it with red or
black chalk, and then passing a blunt style or needle over the lines,
so as to leave a tracing on the paper or other thing against which it
is laid or held. [Writting also calque]

CALK
Calk, n. Etym: [Cf. AS calc shoe, hoof, L. calx, calcis, hel, cälcar,
spur.]

1. A sharp-pointed piece or iron or steel projecting downward on the
shoe of a nore or an ox, to prevent the animal from slipping; --
called also calker, calkin.

2. An instrument with sharp points, worn on the sole of a shoe or
boot, to prevent slipping.

CALK
Calk, v. i.

1. To furnish with calks, to prevent slipping on ice; as, to calk the
shoes of a horse or an ox.

2. To wound with a calk; as when a horse injures a leg or a foot with
a calk on one of the other feet.

CALKER
Calk"er, n.

1. One who calks.

2. A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.

CALKIN
Calk"in, n.

Defn: A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.

CALKING
Calk"ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of making seems tight, as in ships, or of
furnishing with calks, as a shoe, or copying, as a drawing. Calking
iron, a tool like a chisel, used in calking ships, tightening seams
in ironwork, etc.
Their left hand does the calking iron guide. Dryden.

CALL
Call, v. i. [imp.& p. p. Called; p. r. & vb. n. Calling] Etym: [OE.
callen, AS. ceallin; akin to Icel & Sw. kalla, Dan. kalde, D. kallen
to talk, prate, Gr. gar to praise. Cf. Garrulous.]

1. To command or request to come or be present; to summon; as, to
call a servant.
Call hither Clifford; bid him come amain Shak.

2. To summon to the discharge of a particular duty; to designate for
an office, or employment, especially of a religious character; --
often used of a divine summons; as, to be called to the ministry;
sometimes, to invite; as, to call a minister to be the pastor of a
church.
Paul . . . called to be an apostle Rom. i. 1.
The Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work
whereunto I have called them. Acts xiii. 2.

3. To invite or command to meet; to convoke; -- often with together;
as, the President called Congress together; to appoint and summon;
as, to call a meeting of the Board of Aldermen.
Now call we our high court of Parliament. Shak.

4. To give name to; to name; to address, or speak of, by a specifed
name.
If you would but call me Rosalind. Shak.
And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. Gen.
i. 5.

5. To regard or characterize as of a certain kind; to denominate; to
designate.
What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common. Acts x. 15.

6. To state, or estimate, approximately or loosely; to characterize
without strict regard to fact; as, they call the distance ten miles;
he called it a full day's work.
[The] army is called seven hundred thousand men. Brougham.

7. To show or disclose the class, character, or nationality of.
[Obs.]
This speech calls him Spaniard. Beau. & Fl.

8. To utter in a loud or distinct voice; -- often with off; as, to
call, or call off, the items of an account; to call the roll of a
military company.
No parish clerk who calls the psalm so clear. Gay.

9. To invoke; to appeal to.
I call God for a witness. 2 Cor. i. 23 [Rev. Ver. ]

10. To rouse from sleep; to awaken.
If thou canst awake by four o' the clock. I prithee call me. Sleep
hath seized me wholly. Shak.
To call a bond, to give notice that the amount of the bond will be
paid.
 -- To call a party (Law), to cry aloud his name in open court, and
command him to come in and perform some duty requiring his presence
at the time on pain of what may befall him.
 -- To call back, to revoke or retract; to recall; to summon back.
 -- To call down, to pray for, as blessing or curses.
 -- To call forth, to bring or summon to action; as, to call forth
all the faculties of the mind.
 -- To call in, (a) To collect; as, to call in debts or money; ar to
withdraw from cirulation; as, to call in uncurrent coin. (b) To
summon to one's side; to invite to come together; as, to call in
neighbors.
 -- To call (any one) names, to apply contemptuous names (to any
one).
 -- To call off, to summon away; to divert; as, to call off the
attention; to call off workmen from their employment.
 -- To call out. (a) To summon to fight; to challenge. (b) To summon
into service; as, to call out the militia.
 -- To call over, to recite separate particulars in order, as a roll
of names.
 -- To call to account, to demand explanation of.
 -- To call to mind, to recollect; to revive in memory.
 -- To call to order, to request to come to order; as: (a) A public
meeting, when opening it for business. (b) A person, when he is
transgressing the rules of debate.
 -- To call to the bar, to admit to practice in courts of law.
 -- To call up. (a) To bring into view or recollection; as to call up
the image of deceased friend. (b) To bring into action or discussion;
to demand the consideration of; as, to call up a bill before a
legislative body.

Syn.
 -- To name; denominate; invite; bid; summon; convoke; assemble;
collect; exhort; warn; proclaim; invoke; appeal to; designate. To
Call, Convoke, Summon. Call is the generic term; as, to call a public
meeting. To convoke is to require the assembling of some organized
body of men by an act of authority; as, the king convoked Parliament.
To summon is to require attendance by an act more or less stringent
anthority; as, to summon a witness.

CALL
Call, v. i.

1. To speak in loud voice; to cry out; to address by name; --
sometimes with to.
You must call to the nurse. Shak.
The angel of God called to Hagar. Gen. xxi. 17.

2. To make a demand, requirement, or request.
They called for rooms, and he showed them one. Bunyan.

3. To make a brief visit; also, to stop at some place designated, as
for orders.
He ordered her to call at the house once a week. Temple.
To call for (a) To demand; to require; as, a crime calls for
punishment; a survey, grant, or deed calls for the metes and bounds,
or the quantity of land, etc., which it describes. (b) To give an
order for; to request. "Whenever the coach stopped, the sailor called
for more ale." Marryat.
 -- To call on, To call upon, (a) To make a short visit to; as, call
on a friend. (b) To appeal to; to invite; to request earnestly; as,
to call upon a person to make a speech. (c) To solicit payment, or
make a demand, of a debt. (d) To invoke or play to; to worship; as,
to call upon God.
 -- To call out To call or utter loudly; to brawl.

CALL
Call, n.

1. The act of calling; -- usually with the voice, but often
otherwise, as by signs, the sound of some instrument, or by writing;
a summons; an entreaty; an invitation; as, a call for help; the
bugle's call. "Call of the trumpet." Shak.
I rose as at thy call, but found thee not. Milton.

2. A signal, as on a drum, bugle, trumpet, or pipe, to summon
soldiers or sailors to duty.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: An invitation to take charge of or serve a church as its
pastor.

4. A requirement or appeal arising from the circumstances of the
case; a moral requirement or appeal.
Dependence is a perpetual call upon hummanity. Addison.
Running into danger without any call of duty. Macaulay.

5. A divine vocation or summons.
St. Paul himself believed he did well, and that he had a call to it,
when he persecuted the Christians. Locke.

6. Vocation; employment.

Note: [In this sense, calling is generally used.]

7. A short visit; as, to make a call on a neighbor; also, the daily
coming of a tradesman to solicit orders.
The baker's punctual call. Cowper.

8. (Hunting)

Defn: A note blown on the horn to encourage the hounds.

9. (Naut.)

Defn: A whistle or pipe, used by the boatswain and his mate, to
summon the sailors to duty.

10. (Fowling)

Defn: The cry of a bird; also a noise or cry in imitation of a bird;
or a pipe to call birds by imitating their note or cry.

11. (Amer. Land Law)

Defn: A reference to, or statement of, an object, course, distance,
or other matter of description in a survey or grant reguiring or
calling for a carresponding object, etc., on the land.

12. The privilege to demand the delivery of stock, grain, or any
commodity, at a fixed, price, at or within a certain time agreed on.
[Brokers' Cant]

13. See Assessment, 4. At call, or On call, liable to be demanded at
any moment without previous notice; as money on deposit.
 -- Call bird, a bird taught to allure others into a snare.
 -- Call boy (a) A boy who calls the actors in a theater; a boy who
transmits the orders of the captain of a vessel to the engineer,
helmsman, etc. (b) A waiting boy who answers a cal, or cames at the
ringing of a bell; a bell boy.
 -- Call note, the note naturally used by the male bird to call the
female. It is artifically applied by birdcatchers as a decoy. Latham.
 -- Call of the house (Legislative Bodies), a calling over the names
of members, to discover who is absent, or for other purposes; a
calling of names with a view to obtaining the ayes and noes from the
persons named.
 -- Call to the bar, admission to practice in the courts.

CALLA
Cal"la, n. Etym: [Linnæus derived Calla fr. Gr. calla, calsa, name of
an unknown plant, and Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, of the order Araceæ.

Note: The common Calla of cultivation is Richardia Africana,
belonging to another genus of the same order. Its large spathe is
pure white, surrounding a fleshy spike, which is covered with minute
apetalous flowers.

CALLAT
Cal"lat, n.

Defn: Same as Callet. [Obs.]
A callat of boundless tongue. Shak.

CALLE
Calle, n. Etym: [See Caul.]

Defn: A kind of head covering; a caul. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CALLER
Call"er, n.

Defn: One who calls.

CALLER
Cal"ler, a. [Scot.]

1. Cool; refreshing; fresh; as, a caller day; the caller air.
Jamieson.

2. Fresh; in good condition; as, caller berrings.

CALLET
Cal"let, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. & Gael. caile a country woman, strumpet.]

Defn: A trull or prostitute; a scold or gossip. [Obs.] [Written also
callat.]

CALLET
Cal"let v. i.

Defn: To rail or scold. [Obs.] Brathwait.

CALLID
Cal"lid, a. Etym: [L. callidus, fr. callere to be thick-skinned, to
be hardened, to be practiced, fr. callum, callus, callous skin,
callosity, callousness.]

Defn: Characterized by cunning or shrewdness; crafty. [R.]

CALLIDITY
Cal*lid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. calliditas.]

Defn: Acuteness of discernment; cunningness; shrewdness. [R.]
Her eagly-eyed callidity. C. Smart.

CALLIGRAPHER
Cal*lig"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One skilled in calligraphy; a good penman.

CALLIGRAPHIC; CALLIGRAPHICAL
Cal`li*graph"ic, Cal`li*graph"ic*al, a., Etym: [Gr. calligraphique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to calligraphy.
Excellence in the calligraphic act. T. Warton.

CALLIGRAPHIST
Cal*lig"ra*phist, n.

Defn: A calligrapher

CALLIGRAPHY
Cal*lig"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. calligraphie.]

Defn: Fair or elegant penmanship.

CALLING
Call"ing, n.

1. The act of one who calls; a crying aloud, esp. in order to summon,
or to attact the attention of, some one.

2. A summoning or convocation, as of Parliament.
The frequent calling and meeting of Parlaiment. Macaulay.

3. A divine summons or invitation; also, the state of being divinely
called.
Who hath . . . called us with an holy calling. 2 Tim. i. 9.
Give diligence to make yior calling . . . sure. 2 Pet. i. 10.

4. A naming, or inviting; a reading over or reciting in order, or a
call of names with a view to obtaining an answer, as in legislative
bodies.

5. One's usual occupation, or employment; vocation; business; trade.
The humble calling of ter female parent. Thackeray.

6. The persons, collectively, engaged in any particular professions
or employment.
To impose celibacy on wholy callings. Hammond.

7. Title; appellation; name. [Obs.]
I am more proud to be Sir Rowland's son His youngest son, and would
not change that calling. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Occupation; employment; business; trade; profession; office;
engagement; vocation.

CALLIOPE
Cal*li"o*pe, n. Etym: [L. Calliope, Gr. kalli- (from kallos
beautiful) +

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The Muse that presides over eloquence and heroic poetry; mother
of Orpheus, and chief of the nine Muses.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the astreids. See Solar.

3. A musical instrument consisting of series of steam whistles, toned
to the notes of the scale, and played by keys arranged like those of
an organ. It is sometimes attached to steamboat boilers.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beautuful species of humming bird (Stellula Calliope) of
California and adjacent regions.

CALLIOPSIS
Cal`li*op"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. pref. (Bot.)

Defn: A popular name given to a few species of the genus Careopsis,
especially to C. tinctoria of Arkansas.

CALLIPASH
Cal`li*pash" (, n.

Defn: See Calipash.

CALLIPEE
Cal`li*pee" (, n.

Defn: See Calipee.

CALLIPERS
Cal`li*pers (, n. pl.

Defn: See Calipers.

CALLISECTION
Cal`li*sec"tion, n. Etym: [L. callere to be insensible + E. section.]

Defn: Painless vivisection; -- opposed to sentisection. B. G. Wilder.

CALLISTHENIC; CALLISTHENICS
Cal`lis*then"ic, a., Cal`lis*then"ics, n.

Defn: See Calisthenic, Calisthenics.

CALLITHUMP
Cal"li*thump`, n.

Defn: A somewhat riotous parade, accompanied with the blowing of tin
horus, and other discordant noises; also, a burlesque serenade; a
charivari. [U. S.]

CALLITHUMPIAN
Cal`li*thump"i*an, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a callithump. [U. S.]

CALLOSAN
Cal*lo"san, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of the callosum.

CALLOSE
Cal"lose, a. Etym: [See Callous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Furnished with protuberant or hardened spots.

CALLOSITY
Cal*los"i*ty, n.; pl. Callosities. Etym: [L. callasitas; cf. F.
calosté.]

Defn: A hard or thickened spot or protuberance; a hardening and
thickening of the skin or bark of a part, eps. as a result of
continued pressure or friction.

CALLOSUM
Cal*lo"sum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. callosus callous, hard.] (Anat.)

Defn: The great band commissural fibers which unites the two cerebral
hemispheres. See corpus callosum, under Carpus.

CALLOT
Cal"lot, n.

Defn: A plant coif or skullcap. Same as Calotte. B. Jonson.

CALLOUS
Cal"lous, a. Etym: [L. callosus callous hard, fr. callum, callus,
callous skin: cf. F. calleux.]

1. Hardenes; indurated. "A callous hand." Goldsmith. "A callous
ulcer." Dunglison.

2. Hardened in mind; insensible; unfeeling; unsusceptible. "The
callous diplomatist." Macaulay.
It is an immense blessing to be perfectly callous to ridicule. T.
Arnold.

Syn.
 -- Obdurate; hard; hardened; indurated; insensible; unfeeling;
unsusceptible. See Obdurate.
 -- Cal"lous*ly, adv.
 -- Cal"lous*ness, n.
A callousness and numbness of soul. Bentley.

CALLOW
Cal"low, a. Etym: [OE. calewe, calu, bald, AS. calu; akin to D. kaal,
OHG. chalo, G. Kuhl; cf. L. calvus.]

1. Destitute of feathers; naked; unfledged.
An in the leafy summit, spied a nest, Which, o'er the callow young, a
sparrow pressed. Dryden.

2. Immature; boyish; "green"; as, a callow youth.
I perceive by this, thou art but a callow maid. Old Play [1675].

CALLOW
Cal*low", n. (Zoöl.) Etym: [Named from its note.]

Defn: A kind of duck. See Old squaw.

CALLUS
Cal"lus, n. Etym: [L. See Callous.]

1. (Med.)
(a) Same as Callosity. (b

Defn: The material of repair in fractures of bone; a substance exuded
at the site of fracture, which is at first soft or cartilaginous in
consistence, but is ultimately converted into true bone and unites
the fragments into a single piece.

2. (Hort.)

Defn: The new formation over the end of a cutting, before it puts out
rootlets.

CALM
Calm, n. Etym: [OE. calme, F. calme, fr. It. or Sp. calma (cf. Pg.
calma heat), prob. fr. LL. cauma heat, fr. Gr. Caustic]

Defn: Freodom from motion, agitation, or disturbance; a cessation or
abeence of that which causes motion or disturbance, as of winds or
waves; tranquility; stilness; quiet; serenity.
The wind ceased, and there was a great calm. Mark. iv. 39.
A calm before a storm is commonly a peace of a man's own making.
South.

CALM
Calm, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Calming.] Etym:
[Cf. F. calmer. See Calm, n.]

1. To make calm; to render still or quet, as elements; as, to calm
the winds.
To calm the tempest raised by Eolus. Dryden.

2. To deliver from agitation or excitement; to still or soothe, as
the mind or passions.
Passions which seem somewhat calmed.

Syn.
 -- To still; quiet; appease; ally; pacigy; tranquilize; soothe;
compose; assuage; check; restrain.

CALM
Calm, a. [compar. Calmer; super. Calmest]

1. Not stormy; without motion, as of winds or waves; still; quiet;
serene; undisturbed. "Calm was the day." Spenser.
Now all is calm, and fresh, and still. Bryant.

2. Undisturbed by passion or emotion; not agitated or excited;
tranquil; quiet in act or speech. "Calm and sinless peace." Milton.
"With calm attention." Pope.
Such calm old age as conscience pure And self-commanding hearts
ensure. Keble.

Syn.
 -- Still; quiet; undisturbed; tranquil; peaceful; serene; composed;
unruffled; sedate; collected; placid.

CALMER
Calm"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, makes calm.

CALMLY
Calm"ly, adv.

Defn: In a calm manner.
The gentle stream which calmly flows. Denham.

CALMNESS
Calm"ness, n.

Defn: The state of quality of being calm; quietness; tranquillity;
self-repose.
The gentle calmness of the flood. Denham.
Hes calmness was the repose of conscious power. E. Everett.

Syn.
 -- Quietness; quietude; stillness; tranquillity; serenity; repose;
composure; sedateness; placidity.

CALMUCKS
Cal"mucks, n. pl.

Defn: ; sing. Calmuck. A branch of the Mongolian race inbabiting
parts of the Russian and Chinese empires; also (sing.), the language
of the Calmucks. [Written also Kalmucks.]

CALMY
Calm"y, a. Etym: [Fr. Calm, n.]

Defn: Tranquil; peaceful; calm. [Poet.] "A still and calmy day"
Spenser.

CALOMEL
Cal"o*mel, n. Etym: [Gr. calomélas.] (Chem.)

Defn: Mild chloride of mercury, Hg

CALORESCENCE
Cal`o*res"cence, n. Etym: [L. calor heat.] (Physics)

Defn: The conversion of obscure radiant heat info kight; the
transmutation of rays of heat into others of higher refrangibility.
Tyndall.

CALORIC
Ca*lor"ic, n. Etym: [L. calor heat; cf. F. calorique.] (Physics)

Defn: The principle of heat, or the agent to which the phenomena of
heat and combustion were formerly ascribed; -- not now used in
scientific nomenclature, but sometimes used as a general term for
heat.
Caloric expands all bodies. Henry.

CALORIC
Ca*lor"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to caloric. Caloric engine, a kind of engine
operated air.

CALORICITY
Cal`o*ric"ity, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: A faculty in animals of developing and preserving the heat
nesessary to life, that is, the animal heat.

CALORIDUCT
Ca*lor"i*duct, n. Etym: [L. calor heat (fr. calere to warm) + E.
duct.]

Defn: A tube or duct for conducting heat; a caliduct.

CALORIE
Cal"o*rie, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. calor heat.] (Physics)

Defn: The unit of heat according to the Frensc standard; the amount
of heat requires to raise the temperature of one kilogram (sometimes,
one gram) of water one degree centigrade, or from 0Foot pound.

CALORIFACIENT
Ca*lor`i*fa"cient, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: See Calorificient.

CALORIFERE
Ca*lor"i*fere, n. Etym: [F. calorifère, fr. L. calor heat + ferre to
bear.]

Defn: An apparatus for conveying and distributing heat, especially by
means of hot water circulating in tubes.

CALORIFIANT
Ca*lor`i*fi"ant, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: See Calorificient.

CALORIFIC
Cal`o*rif"ic, a. Etym: [L. calorificus; calor heat + facere to make;
cf. F. calorifique.]

Defn: Possessing the quality of producing heat; heating. Calorific
rays, the invisible, heating rays which emanate from the sum, and
burning and heated bodies.

CALORIFICATION
Ca*lor`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. calorification.]

Defn: Production of heat, esp. animal heat.

CALORIFICIENT
Ca*lor`i*fi"cient, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Having, or relating to the power of producing heat; -- applied
to foods which, being rich in carbon, as the fats, are supposed to
give rise to heat in the animal body by oxidation.

CALORIMETER
Cal`o*rim"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. calor heat + -meter; cf. F.
calorimètre.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: An apparatus for measuring the amount of heat contained in
bodies or developed by some mechanical or chemical process, as
friction, chemical combination, combustion, etc.

2. (Engineering)

Defn: An apparatus for measuring the proportion of unevaporated water
contained in steam.

CALORIMETRIC
Ca*lor`i*met"ric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to process of using the calorimeter.
Satisfactory calorimetric results. Nichol.

CALORIMETRY
Cal`o*rim"e*try, n. (Physics)

Defn: Measurement of the quantities of heat in bodies.

CALORIMOTOR
Ca*lor`i*mo"tor, n. Etym: [L. calor heat + E. motor.] (Physics)

Defn: A voltaic battery, having a large surface of plate, and
producing powerful heating effects.

CALORISATOR
Ca*lor"i*sa`tor, n. [NL., heater, fr. L. calor heat.]

Defn: An apparatus used in beet-sugar factories to heat the juice in
order to aid the diffusion.

CALOTTE; CALLOT
Ca*lotte", Cal"lot, n. Etym: [F. calotte, dim. of cale a sort of flat
cap. Cf. Caul.]

Defn: A close cap without visor or brim. Especially: (a) Such a cap,
worn by English serjeants at law. (b) Such a cap, worn by the French
cavalry under their helmets. (c) Such a cap, worn by the clergy of
the Roman Catholic Church. To assume the calotte, to become a priest.

CALOTYPE
Cal"o*type, n. Etym: [Gr. (Photog.)

Defn: A method of taking photographic pictures, on paper sensitized
with iodide of silver; -- also called Talbotype, from the inventor,
Mr. Fox. Talbot.

CALOYER
Ca*loy"er, n. Etym: [F., fr. NGr.

Defn: A monk of the Greek Church; a cenobite, anchoret, or recluse of
the rule of St. Basil, especially, one on or near Mt. Athos.

CALQUE
Calque, v. t.

Defn: See 2d Calk, v. t.

CALTROP; CALTRAP
Cal"trop, Cal"trap, n. Etym: [OE. calketrappe, calletrappe, caltor
(in both senses), fr. AS. collræppe, calcetreppe, sort of thistle;
cf. F. chaussetrape star thistle, trap, It. calcatreppo,
calcatreppolo, star thistle. Perh. from L. calx heel + the same word
as E. trap. See 1st Trap.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbaceous plants (Tribulus) of the order
Zygophylleæ, having a hard several-celled fruit, armed with stout
spines, and resembling the military instrument of the same name. The
species grow in warm countries, and are often very annoying to
cattle.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: An instrument with four iron points, so disposed that, any
three of them being on the ground, the other projects upward. They
are scattered on the ground where an enemy's cavalry are to pass, to
impede their progress by endangering the horses' feet.

CALUMBA
Ca*lum"ba, n. Etym: [from kalumb, its native name in Mozambique.]
(Med.)

Defn: The root of a plant (Jateorrhiza Calumba, and probably Cocculus
palmatus), indigenous in Mozambique. It has an unpleasantly bitter
taste, and is used as a tonic and antiseptic. [Written also colombo,
columbo, and calombo.] American calumba, the Frasera Carolinensis,
also called American gentian. Its root has been used in medicine as
bitter tonic in place of calumba.

CALUMBIN
Ca*lum"bin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter principle extracted as a white crystalline substance
from the calumba root. [Written also colombin, and columbin]

CALUMET
Cal"u*met, n. Etym: [F. calumet, fr. L. calamus reed. See Halm, and
cf. Shawm.]

Defn: A kind of pipe, used by the North American Indians for smoking
tobacco. The bowl is usually made of soft red stone, and the tube is
a long reed often ornamented with feathers.
Smoked the calumet, the Peace pipe, As a signal to the nations.
Lowgfellow.

Note: The calumet is used as a symbol of peace. To accept the calumet
is to agree to terms of peace, and to refuse it is to reject them.
The calumet of peace is used to seal or ratify contracts and
alliances, and as an evidence to strangers that they are welcome.

CALUMNIATE
Ca*lum"ni*ate, v. i. [Imp. & p. p. Calumniated; p. pr. & vb. n.
calumniating.] Etym: [L. calumniatus, p. p. of calumniari. See
Calumny, and cf. Challenge, v. t.]

Defn: To accuse falsely and maliciously of a crime or offense, or of
something disreputable; to slander; to libel.
Hatred unto the truth did always falsely report and calumniate all
godly men's doings. Strype.
Syn.
 -- To asperse; slander; defame; vilify; traduce; belie; bespatter;
blacken; libel. See Asperse.

CALUMNIATE
Ca*lum"ni*ate, v. i.

Defn: To propagate evil reports with a design to injure the
reputation of another; to make purposely false charges of some
offense or crime.

CALUMNIATION
Ca*lum`ni*a"tion, n.

Defn: False accusation of crime or offense, or a malicious and false
representation of the words or actions of another, with a view to
injure his good name.
The calumniation of her principal counselors. Bacon.

CALUMNIATOR
Ca*lum`ni*a"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who calumniates.

Syn.
 -- Slanderer; defamer; libeler; traducer.

CALUMNIATORY
Ca*lum"ni*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Containing calumny; slanderous. Montagu.

CALUMNIOUS
Ca*lum"ni*ous, a. Etym: [L. calumniosus.]

Defn: Containing or implying calumny; false, malicious, and injurious
to reputation; slanderous; as, calumnious reports.
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes. Shak.

Syn: Slanderous; defamatory; scurrilous; opprobrious; derogatory;
libelous; abusive.

Syn: -- Ca*lum"ni*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*lum"ni*ous*ness, n.

CALUMNY
Cal"um*ny, n.; pl. Calumnies. Etym: [L. calumnia, fr. calvi to devise
tricks, deceive; cf. F. calomnie. Cf. Challenge, n.]

Defn: False accusation of a crime or offense, maliciously made or
reported, to the injury of another; malicious misrepresentation;
slander; detraction. "Infamouse calumnies." Motley.
Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
calumny. Shak.

CALVARIA
Cal*va"ri*a, n. Etym: [L. See Calvary.] (Anat.)

Defn: The bones of the cranium; more especially, the bones of the
domelike upper portion.

CALVARY
Cal"va*ry, n. Etym: [L. calvaria a bare skull, fr. calva the scalp
without hair. fr. calvus bald; cf. F. calvaire.]

1. The place where Christ was crucified, on a small hill outside of
Jerusalem. Luke xxiii. 33.

Note: The Latin calvaria is a translation of the Greek Golgotha. Dr.
W. Smith.

2. A representation of the crucifixion, consisting of three crosses
with the figures of Christ and the thieves, often as large as life,
and sometimes surrounded by figures of other personages who were
present at the crucifixion.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A cross, set upon three steps; -- more properly called cross
calvary.

CALVE
Calve, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calved 3; p. pr. & vb. n. Calving.] Etym:
[AS. cealfian. See Calf.]

1. To bring forth a calf. "Their cow calveth." Job xxi. 10.

2. To bring forth young; to produce offspring.
Canst thou mark when the hinds do calve Job xxxix. 1.
The grassy clods now calved. Molton.

CALVER
Cal"ver, v. i.

1. To cut in slices and pickle, as salmon. [Obs.]
For a change, leave calvered salmon and eat sprats. Massinger.

2. To crimp; as, calvered salmon. Nares.

CALVER
Cal"ver, v. i.

Defn: To bear, or be susceptible of, being calvered; as, grayling's
flesh will calver. Catton.

CALVESSNOUT
Calves"*snout, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Snapdragon.

CALVINISM
Cal"vin*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Calvinisme.]

Defn: The theological tenets or doctrines of John Calvin (a French
theologian and reformer of the 16th century) and his followers, or of
the so-called calvinistic churches.

Note: The distinguishing doctrines of this system, usually termed the
five points of Calvinism, are original sin or total depravity,
election or predestination, particular redemption, effectual calling,
and the perseverance of the saints. It has been subject to many
variations and modifications in different churches and at various
times.

CALVINIST
Cal"vin*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Calviniste.]

Defn: A follower of Calvin; a believer in Calvinism.

CALVINISTIC; CALVINISTICAL
Cal`vin*is"tic, Cal`vin*is"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Calvin, or Calvinism; following Calvin;
accepting or Teaching Calvinism. "Calvinistic training." Lowell.

CALVINIZE
Cal"vin*ize, v. t.

Defn: To convert to Calvinism.

CALVISH
Calv"ish, a.

Defn: Like a calf; stupid. Sheldon.

CALX
Calx, n.; pl. E. Calxes, L. Calces. Etym: [L. Calx, calcis.
limestone; cf. Gr. carraic rock Gael. carraig, W. careg, stone. Cf.
Chalk.]

1. (Chem.)
(a) Quicklime. [Obs.]
(b) The substance which remains when a metal or mineral has been
subjected to calcination or combustion by heat, and which is, or may
be, reduced to a fine powder.

Note: Metallic calxes are now called oxides.

2. Broken and refuse glass, returned to the post.

CALYCIFLORAL; CALLYCIFLOROUS
Ca*lyc`i*flo"ral, cal*lyc`i*flo"rous, a. Etym: [L. calyx, -ycis,
calyx + flos, floris, flower.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the petals and stamens adnate to the calyx; -- applied
to a subclass of dicotyledonous plants in the system of the French
botanist Candolle.

CALYCIFORM
Ca*lyc"i*form, a. Etym: [L. calyx, calycis, calyx + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form or appearance of a calyx.

CALYCINAL; CALYCINE
Ca*lyc"i*nal, Cal"y*cine, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to a calyx; having the nature of a calyx.

CALYCLE
Cal"y*cle, n. Etym: [L.calyculus small flower bud, calyx, dim. of
calyx. See Calyx, and cf. Calicle.] (Bot.)

Defn: A row of small bracts, at the base of the calyx, on the
outside.

CALYCLED
Cal"y*cled, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Calyculate.

CALYCOZOA
Cal`y*co*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of acalephs of which Lucernaria is the type. The body
is cup-shaped with eight marginal lobes bearing clavate tentacles. An
aboral sucker serves for attachment. The interior is divided into
four large compartments. See Lucernarida.

CALYCULAR
Ca*lyc"u*lar, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the bracts of a calycle.

CALYCULATE; CALYCULATED
Ca*lyc"u*late, Ca*lyc"u*la`ted, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a set of bracts resembling a calyx.

CALYMENE
Ca*lym"e*ne, n. Etym: [Gr. ( (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of trilobites characteristic of the Silurian age.

CALYON
Cal"yon, n.

Defn: Flint or pebble stone, used in building walls, etc. Haliwell.

CALYPSO
Ca*lyp"so, n. Etym: [The Latinized Greek name of a beautiful nymph.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A small and beautiful species of orchid, having a flower
variegated with purple, pink, and yellow. It grows in cold and wet
localities in the northern part of the United States. The Calypso
borealis is the only orchid which reaches 68º N.

CALYPTRA
Ca*lyp"tra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A little hood or veil, resembling an extinguisher in form and
position, covering each of the small flaskike capsules which contain
the spores of mosses; also, any similar covering body.

CALYPTRIFORM
Ca*lyp"tri*form, a. Etym: [Calyptra + -form.]

Defn: Having the form a calyptra, or extinguisher.

CALYX
Ca"lyx, n.; pl. E. Calyxes, L. Calyces. Etym: [L. calyx, -ycis, fr.
Gr. Chalice Helmet.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The covering of a flower. See Flower.

Note: The calyx is usually green and foliaceous, but becomes delicate
and petaloid in such flowers as the anemone and the four-o'clock.
Each leaf of the calyx is called a sepal.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A cuplike division of the pelvis of the kidney, which surrounds
one or more of the renal papilæ.

CALZOONS
Cal*zoons", n. pl. Etym: [F. caleçons (cf. It. calzoni breeches), fr.
L. calceus shoe.]

Defn: Drawers. [Obs.]

CAM
Cam, n. Etym: [Dan. kam comb, ridge; or cf. W. Gael., and Ir., cam
bet. See 1st Come.]

1. (Med.)
(a) A turning or sliding piece which, by the shape of its periphery
or face, or a groove in its surface, imparts variable or intermittent
motion to, or receives such motion from, a rod, lever, or block
brought into sliding or rolling contact with it.
(b) A curved wedge, movable about an axis, used for forcing or
clamping two pieces together.
(c) A projecting part of a wheel or other moving piece so shaped as
to give alternate or variable motion to another piece against which
its acts.

Note: Cams are much used in machinery involving complicated, and
irregular movements, as in the sewing machine, pin machine, etc.

2. A ridge or mound of earth. [Prow. Eng.] Wright. Cam wheel (Mach.),
a wheel with one or more projections (cams) or depressions upon its
periphery or upon its face; one which is set or shaped eccentrically,
so that its revolutions impart a varied, reciprocating, or
intermittent motion.

CAM
Cam, a. Etym: [See Kam.]

Defn: Crooked. [Obs.]

CAMAIEU
Ca*ma"ieu, n. Etym: [F.; of unknown origin. Cf. Cameo.]

1. A cameo. [Obs.] Crabb.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Painting in shades of one color; monochrome. Mollett.

CAMAIL
Ca*mail", n. Etym: [F. camail (cf. It. camaglio), fr. L. caput head +
source of E. mail.]

1. (Ancient Armor)

Defn: A neck guard of chain mall, hanging from the bascinet or other
headpiece.

2. A hood of other material than mail; esp. (Eccl.), a hood worn in
church services, -- the amice, or the like.

CAMARA; CAMARA DOS PARES; CAMARADOS DEPUTADOS
Ca"ma*ra, Ca"ma*ra dos pares, Ca"ma*ra*dos deputados, n. [Pg.]

Defn: Chamber; house; -- used in Ca"ma*ra dos Pa"res, and Ca"ma*ra
dos De`pu*ta"dos. See Legislature.

CAMARADERIE
Ca`ma`ra`de*rie", n. [F. See Comrade.]

Defn: Comradeship and loyalty.

The spirit of camaraderie is strong among these riders of the plains.
W. A. Fraser.

CAMARASAURUS
Cam`a*ra*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL. fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of gigantic American Jurassic dinosaurs, having large
cavities in the bodies of the dorsal vertebræ.

CAMARILLA
Ca`ma*ril"la, n. Etym: [Sp., a small room.]

1. The private audience chamber of a king.

2. A company of secret and irresponsible advisers, as of a king; a
cabal or clique.

CAMASS
Cam"ass, n. Etym: [American Indian name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A blue-flowered liliaceous plant (Camassia esculenta) of
northwestern America, the bulbs of which are collected for food by
the Indians. [Written also camas, cammas, and quamash.]

Note: The Eastern cammass is Camassia Fraseri.

CAMBER
Cam"ber, n. Etym: [Of. cambre bent, curved; akin to F. cambrer to
vault, to bend, fr. L. camerare to arch over, fr. camera vault, arch.
See Chamber, and cf. Camerate.]

1. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: An upward convexity of a deck or other surface; as, she has a
high camber (said of a vessel having an unusual convexity of deck).

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An upward concavity in the under side of a beam, girder, or
lintel; also, a slight upward concavity in a straight arch. See
Hogback. Camber arch (Arch.), an arch whose intrados, though
apparently straight, has a slightly concave curve upward.
 -- Camber beam (Arch.), a beam whose under side has a concave curve
upward.

CAMBER
Cam"ber, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cambered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cambering.]

Defn: To cut bend to an upward curve; to construct, as a deck, with
an upward curve.

CAMBER
Cam"ber, v. i.

Defn: To curve upward.

CAMBERKEELED
Cam"ber*keeled, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Having the keel arched upwards, but not actually hogged; --
said of a ship.

CAMBIAL
Cam"bi*al, a. Etym: [LL. cambialis, fr. cambiars. See Change.]

Defn: Belonging to exchanges in commerce; of exchange. [R.]

CAMBIST
Cam"bist, n. Etym: [F. cambiste, It. cambista, fr. L. cambire to
exchange. See Change.]

Defn: A banker; a money changer or broker; one who deals in bills of
exchange, or who is skilled in the science of exchange.

CAMBISTRY
Cam"bist*ry, n.

Defn: The science of exchange, weight, measures, etc.

CAMBIUM
Cam"bi*um, n. Etym: [LL. cambium exchange, fr. L. cambire to
exchange. It was supposed that cambium was sap changing into wood.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A series of formative cells lying outside of the wood proper
and inside of the inner bark. The growth of new wood takes place in
the cambium, which is very soft.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A fancied nutritive juice, formerly supposed to orgiginate in
the blood, to repair losses of the system, and to promote its
increase. Dunglison.

CAMBLET
Cam"blet, n.

Defn: See Camlet.

CAMBOGE
Cam*boge", n.

Defn: See Gamboge.

CAMBOOSE
Cam*boose", n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Caboose.

CAMBRASINE
Cam"bra*sine, n.

Defn: A kind of linen cloth made in Egypt, and so named from its
resemblance to cambric.

CAMBREL
Cam"brel, n.

Defn: See Gambrel, n., 2. Wright.

CAMBRIA
Cam"bri*a, n.

Defn: The ancient Latin name of Wales. It is used by modern poets.

CAMBRIAN
Cam"bri*an, a.

1. (Geog.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cambria or Wales.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the lowest subdivision of the rocks of the
Silurian or Molluscan age; -- sometimes described as inferior to the
Silurian. It is named from its development in Cambria or Wales. See
the Diagram under Geology.

CAMBRIAN
Cam"bri*an, n.

1. A native of Cambria or Wales.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: The Cambrian formation.

CAMBRIC
Cam"bric, n. Etym: [OE. camerike, fr. Cambrai (Flemish Kamerik), a
city of France (formerly of Flanders), where it was first made.]

1. A fine, thin, and white fabric made of flax or linen.
He hath ribbons of all the colors i' the rainbow; . . . inkles,
caddises, cambrics, lawns. Shak.

2. A fabric made, in imitation of linen cambric, of fine, hardspun
cotton, often with figures of various colors; -- also called cotton
cambric, and cambric muslin.

CAMBROBRITON; CAMBRO-BRITON
Cam"bro*Brit"on, n.

Defn: A Welshman.

CAME
Came,

Defn: imp. of Come.

CAME
Came, n. Etym: [Cf. Scot. came, caim, comb, and OE. camet silver.]

Defn: A slender rod of cast lead, with or without grooves, used, in
casements and stained-glass windows, to hold together the panes or
pieces of glass.

CAMEL
Cam"el, n. Etym: [Oe. camel, chamel, OF. camel, chamel, F. chameau L.
camelus, fr. Gr. gamal, Ar. jamal. Cf. As. camel, fr. L. camelus.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large ruminant used in Asia and Africa for carrying burdens
and for riding. The camel is remarkable for its ability to go a long
time without drinking. Its hoofs are small, and situated at the
extremities of the toes, and the weight of the animal rests on the
callous. The dromedary (Camelus dromedarius) has one bunch on the
back, while the Bactrian camel (C. Bactrianus) has two. The llama,
alpaca, and vicuña, of South America, belong to a related genus
(Auchenia).

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A watertight structure (as a large box or boxes) used to assist
a vessel in passing over a shoal or bar or in navigating shallow
water. By admitting water, the camel or camels may be sunk and
attached beneath or at the sides of a vessel, and when the water is
pumped out the vessel is lifted. Camel bird (Zoöl.), the ostrich.
 -- Camel locust (Zoöl.), the mantis.
 -- Camel's thorn (Bot.), a low, leguminous shrub (Alhagi maurorum)
of the Arabian desert, from which exudes a sweetish gum, which is one
of the substances called manna.

CAMELBACKED; CAMEL-BACKED
Cam"el*backed`, a.

Defn: Having a back like a camel; humpbacked. Fuller.

CAMELEON
Ca*me"le*on, n.

Defn: See Chaceleon. [Obs.]

CAMELLIA
Ca*mel"li*a, n. Etym: [NL.; -- named after Kamel, a Jesuit who is
said to have brought it from the East.] (Bot.)

Defn: An Asiatic genus of small shrubs, often with shining leaves and
showy flowers. Camelia Japonica is much cultivated for ornament, and
C. Sassanqua and C. Oleifera are grown in China for the oil which is
pressed from their seeds. The tea plant is now referred to this genus
under the name of Camellia Thea.

CAMELOPARD
Ca*mel"o*pard, n. Etym: [LL. camelopardus, L. camelopardalus,
camelopardalis, fr. Gr. camélopard. The camelopard has a neck and
head like a camel, and is spotted like a pard. See Camel, and Pard.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An African ruminant; the giraffe. See Giraffe.

CAMELOT
Came"lot, n.

Defn: See Camelet. [Obs.]

CAMELRY
Cam"el*ry, n.

Defn: Troops that are mounted on camels.

CAMELSHAIR
Cam"els*hair`, a.

Defn: Of camel's hair. Camel's-hair pencil, a small brush used by
painters in water colors, made of camel's hair or similar materials.
 -- Camel's-hair shawl. A name often given to a cashmere shawl. See
Cashmere shawl under Cashmere.

CAMEMBERT; CAMEMBERT CHEESE
Ca`mem`bert", n., or Camembert cheese.

Defn: A kind of soft, unpressed cream cheese made in the vicinity of
Camembert, near Argentan, France; also, any cheese of the same type,
wherever made.

CAMEO
Cam"e*o, n.; pl. Cameos. Etym: [It cammeo; akin to F. camée, camaïeu,
Sp. camafeo, LL. camaeus, camahutus; of unknown origin.]

Defn: A carving in relief, esp. one on a small scale used as a jewel
for personal adornment, or like.

Note: Most cameos are carved in a material which has layers of
different colors, such stones as the onyx and sardonyx, and various
kinds of shells, being used. Cameo conch (Zoöl.), a large, marine,
univalve shell, esp. Cassis cameo, C. rua, and allied species, used
for cutting cameos. See Quern conch.

CAMERA
Cam"e*ra, n.; pl. E. Cameras, L. Camerae. Etym: [L. vault, arch, LL.,
chamber. See Chamber.]

Defn: A chamber, or instrument having a chamber. Specifically: The
camera obscura when used in photography. See Camera, and Camera
obscura. Bellows camera. See under Bellows.
 -- In camera (Law), in a judge's chamber, that is, privately; as, a
judge hears testimony which is not fit for the open court in camera.
 -- Panoramic, or Pantascopic, camera, a photographic camera in which
the lens and sensitized plate revolve so as to expose adjacent parts
of the plate successively to the light, which reaches it through a
narrow vertical slit; -- used in photographing broad landscapes.
Abney.

CAMERADE
Came"rade, n.

Defn: See Comrade, [Obs.]

CAMERALISTIC
Cam`e*ra*lis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to finance and public revenue.

CAMERALISTICS
Cam`e*ra*lis"tics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. caméralistique, G. kameralistik,
fr. L. camera vault, LL., chamber, treasury.]

Defn: The science of finance or public revenue.

CAMERA LUCIDA
Cam"e*ra lu"ci*da. Etym: [L. camera chamber + L. lucidus, lucida,
lucid, light.] (Opt.)

Defn: An instrument which by means of a prism of a peculiar form, or
an arrangement of mirrors, causes an apparent image of an external
object or objects to appear as if projected upon a plane surface, as
of paper or canvas, so that the outlines may conveniently traced. It
is generally used with the microscope.

CAMERA OBSCURA
Cam"e*ra ob*scu"ra. Etym: [LL. camera chamber + L. obscurus, obscura,
dark.] (Opt.)

1. An apparatus in which the images of extermal objects, formed by a
convex lens or a concave mirror, are thrown on a paper or other white
surface placed in the focus of the lens or mirror within a darkened
chamber, or box, so that the oulines may be traced.

2. (Photog.)

Defn: An apparatus in which the image of an external object or
objects is, by means of lenses. thrown upon a sensitized plate or
surface placed at the back or an extensible darkened box or chamber
variously modifled; -- commonly called simply the camera.

CAMERATE
Cam"er*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Camerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Camerzting.] Etym: [L. cameratus, p. p. of camerare. See Camber.]

1. To build in the form of a vault; to arch over.

2. To divide into chambers.

CAMERATION
Cam`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. cameratio.]

Defn: A vaulting or arching over. [R.]

CAMERLINGO
Ca`mer*lin"go, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: The papal chamberlain; the cardinal who presides over the
pope's household. He has at times possessed great power. [Written
also camerlengo and camarlengo.]

CAMERONIAN
Cam`e*ro"ni*an, n.

Defn: A follower of the Rev. Richard Cameron, a Scotch Covenanter of
the time of Charies II.
Cameron and others refused to accept the "indulgence" offered the
Presbyterian clergy, insisted on the Solemn league and Covenant, and
in 1680 declared Charles II deposed for tyranny, breach of faith,
etc. Cameron was killed at the battle of Airdmoss, but his followers
became a denomination (afterwards called Reformed Presbyterians) who
refused to recognize laws or institutions which they believed
contrary to the kingdom of Christ, but who now avail themselves of
political rights.

CAMIS
Cam"is, n. Etym: [See Chemise.]

Defn: A light, loose dress or robe. [Also written camus.] [Obs.]
All in a camis light of purple silk. Spenser.

CAMISADE; CAMISADO
Cam`i*sade", Cam`i*sa"do, n. Etym: [F. camisade a night attack; cf.
It. camiciata. See Camis.] [Obs.] (Mil.)
(a) A shirt worn by soldiers over their uniform, in order to be able
to recognize one another in a night attack.
(b) An attack by surprise by soldiers wearing the camisado.
Give them a camisado in night season. Holinshed.

CAMISARD
Cam"i*sard, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: One of the French Protestant insurgents who rebelled against
Louis XIV, after the revocation of the edict of Nates; -- so called
from the peasant's smock (camise) which they wore.

CAMISATED
Cam"i*sa`ted, a.

Defn: Dressed with a shirt over the other garments.

CAMISOLE
Cam"i*sole, n. Etym: [F. See chemise.]

1. A short dressing jacket for women.

2. A kind of straitjacket.

CAMLET
Cam"let, n. Etym: [F. camelot (akin to Sp. camelote, chamelote, It.
cambellbito, ciambellotto, LL. camelotum, camelinum, fr. Ar. khamlat
camlet, fr. kaml pile, plush. The word was early confused with camel,
camel's hair also being used in making it. Cf. Calamanco]

Defn: A woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly of
goat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton. [Sometimes written
camelot and camblet.]

Note: They have been made plain and twilled, of sigle warp and weft,
of double warp, and sometimes with double weft also, with thicker
yarn. Beck (Draper's Dict. )

CAMLETED
Cam"let*ed, a.

Defn: Wavy or undulating like camlet; veined. Sir T. Herbert.

CAMMAS
Cam"mas, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Camass.

CAMMOCK
Cam"mock, n. Etym: [AS. cammoc.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant having long hard, crooked roots, the Ononis spinosa; --
called also rest-harrow. The Scandix Pecten-Veneris is also called
cammock.

CAMOMILE; CHAMOMILE
Cam"o*mile, Cham"o*mile, n.Etym: [LL. camonilla, corrupted fr. Gr.
Humble, and Melon.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbs (Anthemis) of the Composite family. The common
camomile, A. nobilis, is used as a popular remedy. Its flowers have a
strong and fragrant and a bitter, aromatic taste. They are tonic,
febrifugal, and in large doses emetic, and the volatile oil is
carminative.

CAMONFLET
Ca*mon"flet, n. Etym: [F.] (Mil.)

Defn: A small mine, sometimes formed in the wall or side of an
enemy's gallery, to blow in the earth and cut off the retreat of the
miners. Farrow.

CAMORRA
Ca*mor"ra, n. [It.]

Defn: A secret organization formed at Naples, Italy, early in the
19th century, and used partly for political ends and partly for
practicing extortion, violence, etc. -- Ca*mor"rist (#), n.

CAMOUS; CAMOYS
Ca"mous, Ca"moys, a. Etym: [F. camus (equiv. to camard) flat-nosed,
fr. Celtic Cam croked + suff. -us; akin to L. camur, camurus,
croked.]

Defn: Flat; depressed; crooked; -- said only of the nose. [Obs.]

CAMOUSED
Ca"moused, (, a. Etym: [From Camouse]

Defn: Depressed; flattened. [Obs.]
Though my nose be cammoused. B. Jonson

CAMOUSLY
Ca"mous*ly, adv.

Defn: Awry. [Obs.] Skelton.

CAMP
Camp, n. Etym: [F. camp, It. campo, fr. L. campus plant, fleld; akin
to Gr. Campaing, Champ, n.]

1. The ground or spot on which tents, huts, etc., are erected for
shelter, as for an army or for lumbermen, etc. Shzk.

2. A collection of tents, huts, etc., for shelter, commonly arranged
in an orderly manner.
Forming a camp in the neighborhood of Boston. W. Irving.

3. A single hut or shelter; as, a hunter's camp.

4. The company or body of persons encamped, as of soldiers, of
surveyors, of lumbermen, etc.
The camp broke up with the confusion of a flight. Macaulay.

5. (Agric.)

Defn: A mound of earth in which potatoes and other vegetables are
stored for protection against frost; -- called also burrow and pie.
[Prov. Eng.]

6. Etym: [Cf. OE. & AS. camp contest, battle. See champion.]

Defn: An ancient game of football, played in some parts of England.
Halliwell. Camp bedstead, a light bedstead that can be folded up onto
a small space for easy transportation.
 -- camp ceiling (Arch.), a kind ceiling often used in attics or
garrets, in which the side walls are inclined inward at the top,
following the slope of the rafters, to meet the plane surface of the
upper ceiling.
 -- Camp chair, a light chair that can be folded up compactly for
easy transportation; the seat and back are often made of strips or
pieces of carpet.
 -- Camp fever, typhus fever.
 -- Camp follower, a civilian accompanying an army, as a sutler,
servant, etc.
 -- Camp meeting, a religious gathering for open-air preaching, held
in some retired spot, chiefty by Methodists. It usualy last for
several days, during which those present lodge in tents, temporary
houses, or cottages.
 -- Camp stool, the same as camp chair, except that the stool has no
back.
 -- Flying camp (Mil.), a camp or body of troops formed for rapid
motion from one place to another. Farrow.
 -- To pitch (a) camp, to set up the tents or huts of a camp.
 -- To strike camp, to take down the tents or huts of a camp.

CAMP
Camp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Camped; p. pr. & vb n. Camping.]

Defn: To afford rest or lodging for, as an army or travelers.
Had our great palace the capacity To camp this host, we all would sup
together. Shak.

CAMP
Camp, v. i.

1. To pitch or prepare a camp; to encamp; to lodge in a camp; --
often with out.
They camped out at night, under the stars. W. Irving.

2. Etym: [See Camp, n., 6]

Defn: To play the game called camp. [Prov. Eng.] Tusser.

CAMPAGNA
Cam*pa"gna, n. Etym: [It. See Campaing.]

Defn: An open level tract of country; especially "Campagna di Roma."
The extensive undulating plain which surrounds Rome.

Note: Its length is commonly stated to be about ninety miles, and its
breadth from twenty-seven to forty miles. The ground is almost
entirely volcanic, and vapors which arise from the district produce
malaria.

CAMPAGNOL
Cam`pa`gnol", n. Etym: [F. , fr. campagne field.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A mouse (Arvicala agrestis), called also meadow mouse, which
often does great damage in fields and gardens, by feeding on roots
and seeds.

CAMPAIGN
Cam*paign", n. Etym: [F. campagne, It. campagna, fr. L. Campania the
level country about Naples, fr. campus field. See Camp, and cf.
Champaign, Champagne.]

1. An open field; a large, open plain without considerable hills.
SeeChampaign. Grath.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A connected series of military operations forming a distinct
stage in a war; the time during which an army keeps the field.
Wilhelm.

3. Political operations preceding an election; a canvass. [Cant, U.
S.]

4. (Metal.)

Defn: The period during which a blast furnace is continuously in
operation.

CAMPAIGN
Cam*paign", v. i.

Defn: To serve in a campaign.

CAMPAIGNER
Cam*paign"er, n.

Defn: One who has served in an army in several campaigns; an old
soldier; a veteran.

CAMPANA
Cam*pa"na, n. Etym: [LL. campana bell. Cf. Campanle.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: A church bell.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The pasque flower. Drayton.

3. (Doric Arch.)

Defn: Same as Gutta.

CAMPANED
Cam*paned", a. (Her.)

Defn: Furnished with, or bearing, campanes, or bells.

CAMPANERO
Cam`pa*ne"ro, n. Etym: [Sp., a bellman.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bellbird of South America. See Bellbird.

CAMPANES
Cam*panes", n. pl. Etym: [See Campana.] (Her.)

Defn: Bells. [R.]

CAMPANIA
Cam*pa"ni*a, n. Etym: [See Campaig.]

Defn: Open country. Sir W. Temple.

CAMPANIFORM
Cam*pan"i*form, a. Etym: [LL. campana bell + -form: cf. F.
companiforme.]

Defn: Bell-shaped.

CAMPANILE
Cam`pa*ni"le, n. Etym: [It. campanile bell tower, steeple, fr. It. &
LL. campana bell.] (Arch.)

Defn: A bell tower, esp. one built separate from a church.
Many of the campaniles od Italy are lofty and magnificent atructures.
Swift.

CAMPANILIFORM
Cam`pa*nil"i*form, a. Etym: [See Campaniform.]

Defn: Bell-shaped; campanulate; campaniform.

CAMPANOLOGIST
Cam`pa*nol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in campanology; a bell ringer.

CAMPANOLOGY
Cam`pa*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [LL. campana bell _ -logy.]

Defn: The art of ringing bells, or a treatise on the art.

CAMPANULA
Cam*pan"u*la, n. Etym: [LL. campanula a little bell; dim. of campana
bell.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large genus of plants bearing bell-shaped flowers, often of
great beauty; -- also called bellflower.

CAMPANULACEOUS
Cam*pan`u*la"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants
(Camponulaceæ) of which Campanula is the type, and which includes the
Canterbury bell, the harebell, and the Venus's looking-glass.

CAMPANULARIAN
Cam*pan`u*la"ri*an, n. Etym: [L. campanula a bell.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hydroid of the family ampanularidæ, characterized by having
the polyps or zooids inclosed in bell-shaped calicles or hydrothecæ.

CAMPANULATE
Cam*pan"u*late, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Bell-shaped.

CAMPBELLITE
Camp"bell*ite, n. Etym: [From Alexander Campbell, of Virginia.]
(Eccl.)

Defn: A member of the denomination called Christians or Disciples of
Christ. They themselves repudiate the term Campbellite as a nickname.
See Christian, 3.

CAMPEACHY WOOD
Cam*peach"y Wood`. Etym: [From the bay of Campeachy, in Mexico.]

Defn: Logwood.

CAMPER
Camp"er, n.

Defn: One who lodges temporarily in a hut or camp.

CAMPESTRAL; CAMPESTRIAN
Cam*pes"tral, Cam*pes"tri*an, a. Etym: [L. campester, fr. campus
field.]

Defn: Relating to an open fields; drowing in a field; growing in a
field, or open ground.

CAMPFIGHT
Camp"fight`, n. Etym: [Cf. Camp, n., 6.] (O. Eng. Law.)

Defn: A duel; the decision of a case by a duel.

CAMPHENE
Cam"phene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of substances C10H16, resembling camphor,
regarded as modified terpenes.

CAMPHINE
Cam*phine", n. Etym: [From Camphor.]

Defn: Rectified oil of turpentine, used for burning in lamps, and as
a common solvent in varnishes.

Note: The name is also applied to a mixture of this substance with
three times its volume of alcohol and sometimes a little ether, used
as an illuminant.

CAMPHIRE
Cam"phire, n.

Defn: An old spelling of Camphor.

CAMPHOGEN
Cam"pho*gen, n. Etym: [Camphor + -gen: -- formerly so called as
derived from camphor: cf. F. camphogène.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Cymene.

CAMPHOL
Cam"phol, n. Etym: [Camphol + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Borneol.

CAMPHOR
Cam"phor, n. Etym: [OE. camfere, F. camphre (cf. It. camfara, Sp.
camfara, alcanfor, LL. camfora, camphara, NGr. kafur, prob. fr. Skr.
karpura.]

1. A tough, white, aromatic resin, or gum, obtained from different
species of the Laurus family, esp. from Cinnamomum camphara (the
Laurus camphara of Linnæus.). Camphor, C10H16O, is volatile and
fragrant, and is used in medicine as a diaphoretic, a stimulant, or
sedative.

2. A gum resembing ordinary camphor, obtained from a tree
(Dryobalanops camphora) growing in Sumatra and Borneo; -- called also
Malay camphor, camphor of Borneo, or borneol. See Borneol.

Note: The name camphor is also applied to a number of bodies of
similar appearance and properties, as cedar camphor, obtained from
the red or pencil cedar (Juniperus Virginiana), and peppermint
camphor, or menthol, obtained from the oil of peppermint. Camphor oil
(Chem.), name variously given to certain oil-like products, obtained
especially from the camphor tree.
 -- Camphor tree, a large evergreen tree (Cinnamomum Camphora) with
lax, smooth branches and shining triple-nerved lanceolate leaves,
probably native in China, but now cultivated in most warm countries.
Camphor is collected by a process of steaming the chips of the wood
and subliming the product.

CAMPHOR
Cam"phor, v. t.

Defn: To impregnate or wash with camphor; to camphorate. [R.] Tatler.

CAMPHORACEOUS
Cam`pho*ra"ceous, a.

Defn: Of the nature of camphor; containing camphor. Dunglison.

CAMPHORATE
Cam"phor*ate, v. t.

Defn: To impregnate or treat with camphor.

CAMPHORATE
Cam"phor*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. camphorate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of camphoric acid.

CAMPHORATE; CAMPORATED
Cam"phor*ate, Cam"por*a`ted,

Defn: Combined or impregnated with camphor. Camphorated oil, an
oleaginous preparation containing camphor, much used as an
embrocation.

CAMPHORIC
Cam*phor"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. camphorique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, camphor. Camphoric acid, a
white crystallizable substance, C10H16O4, obtained from the oxidation
of camphor.

Note: Other acid of camphor are campholic acid, C10H18O2, and
camphoronic acid, C9H12O5, white crystallizable substances.

CAMPHRETIC
Cam*phret"ic, a. Etym: [rom Camphor.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from camphor. [R.]

CAMPING
Camp"ing, n.

1. Lodging in a camp.

2. Etym: [See Camp, n., 6]

Defn: A game of football. [Prov. Eng.]

CAMPION
Cam"pi*on, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. L. campus field.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the Pink family (Cucubalus bacciferus), bearing
berries regarded as poisonous. Bladder campion, a plant of the Pink
family (Cucubalus Behen or Silene inflata), having a much inflated
calyx. See Behen.
 -- Rose campion, a garden plant (Lychnis coronaria) with handsome
crimsome crimson flowers.

CAMPUS
Cam"pus, n. Etym: [L., a field.]

Defn: The principal grounds of a college or school, between the
buildings or within the main inclosure; as, the college campus.

CAMPYLOSPERMOUS
Cam`py*lo*sper"mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having seeds grooved lengthwise on the inner face, as in sweet
cicely.

CAMPYLOTROPOUS
Cam`py*lot"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the ovules and seeds so curved, or bent down upon
themselves, that the ends of the embryo are brought close together.

CAMUS
Cam"us, n.

Defn: See Camis. [Obs.]

CAMWOOD
Cam"wood, n.

Defn: See Barwood.

CAN
Can,

Defn: an obs. form of began, imp. & p. p. of Begin, sometimes used in
old poetry.

Note: [See Gan.]
With gentle words he can faile gree. Spenser.

CAN
Can, n. Etym: [OE. & AS. canne; akin to D. Kan, G. Kanne, OHG.
channa, Sw. Kanna, Dan. kande.]

1. A drinking cup; a vessel for holding liquids. [Shak. ]
Fill the cup and fill can, Have a rouse before the morn. Tennyson.

2. A vessel or case of tinned iron or of sheet metal, of various
forms, but usually cylindrical; as, a can of tomatoes; an oil can; a
milk can.

Note: A can may be a cylinder open at the top, as for receiving the
sliver from a carding machine, or with a removable cover or stopper,
as for holding tea, spices, milk, oysters, etc., or with handle and
spout, as for holding oil, or hermetically sealed, in canning meats,
fruits, etc. The name is also sometimes given to the small glass or
earthenware jar used in canning.

CAN
Can, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Canned; p. pr. &vb. n. Canning.]

Defn: To preserve by putting in sealed cans [U. S.] "Canned meats" W.
D. Howells. Canned goods, a general name for fruit, vegetables, meat,
or fish, preserved in hermetically sealed cans.

CAN
Can, v. t. & i.

Note: [The transitive use is obsolete.] [imp. Could.] Etym: [OE.
cunnen, cannen (1st sing. pres. I can), to know, know how, be able,
AS. cunnan, 1st sing. pres. ic cann or can, pl. cunnon, 1st sing.
imp. cu\'ebe (for cunthe); p. p. cu\'eb (for cunth); akin to OS.
Kunnan, D. Kunnen, OHG. chunnan, G. können, Icel. kunna, Goth.
Kunnan, and E. ken to know. The present tense I can (AS. ic cann) was
originally a preterit, meaning I have known or Learned, and hence I
know, know how. *45. See Ken, Know; cf. Con, Cunning, Uncouth.]

1. To know; to understand. [Obs.]
I can rimes of Rodin Hood. Piers Plowman.
I can no Latin, quod she. Piers Plowman.
Let the priest in surplice white, That defunctive music can. Shak.

2. To be able to do; to have power or influence. [Obs.]
The will of Him who all things can. Milton.
For what, alas, can these my single arms Shak.
Mæcænas and Agrippa, who can most with Cæsar. Beau. & Fl.

3. To be able; -- followed by an infinitive without to; as, I can go,
but do not wish to.

Syn.
 -- Can but, Can not but. It is an error to use the former of these
phrases where the sens requires the latter. If we say, "I can but
perish if I go," "But" means only, and denotes that this is all or
the worst that can happen. When the apostle Peter said. "We can not
but speak of the things which we have seen and heard." he referred to
a moral constraint or necessety which rested upon him and his
associates; and the meaning was, We cannot help speaking, We cannot
refrain from speaking. This idea of a moral necessity or constraint
is of frequent occurrence, and is also expressed in the phrase, "I
can not help it." Thus we say. "I can not but hope," "I can not but
believe," "I can not but think," "I can not but remark," etc., in
cases in which it would be an error to use the phrase can but.
Yet he could not but acknowledge to himself that there was something
calculated to impress awe, . . . in the sudden appearances and
vanishings . . . of the masque De Quincey.
Tom felt that this was a rebuff for him, and could not but understand
it as a left-handed hit at his employer. Dickens.

CANAANITE
Ca"naan*ite, n.

1. A descendant of Canaan, the son of Ham, and grandson of Noah.

2. A Native or inbabitant of the land of Canaan, esp. a member of any
of the tribes who inhabited Canaan at the time of the exodus of the
Israelites from Egypt.

CANAANITE
Ca"naan*ite, n. Etym: [From an Aramaic word signifying "zeal."]

Defn: A zealot. "Simon the Canaanite." Matt. x. 4.

Note: This was the "Simon called Zelotes" (Luke vi. 15), i.e., Simon
the zealot. Kitto.

CANAANITISH
Ca"naan*i`tish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Canaan or the Canaanites.

CANADA; CANYADA
Ca*ña"da, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A small cañon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less
frequently, an open valley. [Local, Western U. S.]

CANADA
Can"a*da, n.

Defn: A British province in North America, giving its name to various
plants and animals. Canada balsam. See under Balsam.
 -- Canada goose. (Zoöl.) See Whisky Jack.
 -- Canada lynx. (Zoöl.) See Lynx.
 -- Canada porcupine (Zoöl.) See Porcupine, and Urson.
 -- Canada rice (Bot.) See under Rick.
 -- Canada robin (Zoöl.), the cedar bird.

CANADIAN
Ca*na"di*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Canada.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Canada. Canadian period (Geol.), A
subdivision of the American Lower Silurian system embracing the
calciferous, Quebec, and Chazy epochs. This period immediately
follows the primordial or Cambrian period, and is by many geologists
regarded as the beginning of the Silurian age, See the Diagram, under
Geology.

CANAILLE
Ca*naille", n. Etym: [F. canaille (cf. It. canaglia), prop. and orig.
a pack of dogs, fr. L. Canis dog.]

1. The lowest class of people; the rabble; the vulgar.

2. Shorts or inferior flour. [Canadian]

CANAKIN
Can"a*kin, n. Etym: [Dim. of can.]

Defn: A little can or cup. "And let me the canakin clink." Shak.

CANAL
Ca*nal", n. Etym: [F. canal, from L. canalis canal, channel; prob.
from a root signifying "to cut"; cf. D. kanaal, fr. the French. Cf.
Channel, Kennel gutter.]

1. An artificial channel filled with water and designed for
navigation, or for irrigating land, etc.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A tube or duct; as, the alimentary canal; the semicircular
canals of the ear. Canal boat, a boat for use on a canal; esp. one of
peculiar shape, carrying freight, and drawn by horses walking on the
towpath beside the canal. Canal lock. See Lock.

CANAL COAL
Can"al coal`.

Defn: See Cannel coal.

CANALICULATE; CANALICULATED
Can`a*lic"u*late, Can`a*lic"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. canaliculatus
channeled, fr. canaliculus, dim. of canalis. See Canal.]

Defn: Having a channel or groove, as in the leafstalks of most palms.

CANALICULUS
Can`a*lic"u*lus, n.; pl. Canaliculi. Etym: [L.] (Anat.)

Defn: A minute canal.

CANALIZATION
Ca*nal`i*za"tion, n.

Defn: Construction of, or furnishing with, a canal or canals. [R.]

CANAPE
Ca`na`pé", n. [F., orig. a couch with mosquito curtains. See Canopy.]

1. A sofa or divan.

2.  (Cookery) A slice or piece of bread fried in butter or oil, on
which anchovies, mushrooms, etc., are served.

CANAPE CONFIDENT
Ca`na`pé" con`fi`dent".

Defn: A sofa having a seat at each end at right angles to the main
seats.

CANARD
Ca*nard", n. Etym: [F., properly, a duck.]

Defn: An extravagant or absurd report or story; a fabricated
sensational report or statement; esp. one set afloat in the
newspapers to hoax the public.

CANARESE
Can`a*rese", a.

Defn: Pertaining to Canara, a district of British India.

CANARY
Ca*na"ry, a. Etym: [F. Canarie, L. Canaria insula one of the Canary
islands, said to be so called from its large dogs, fr. canis dog.]

1. Of or pertaining to the Canary Islands; as, canary wine; canary
birds.

2. Of a pale yellowish color; as, Canary stone. Canary grass, a grass
of the genus Phalaris (P. Canariensis), producing the seed used as
food for canary birds.
 -- Canary stone (Min.), a yellow species of carnelian, named from
its resemblance in color to the plumage of the canary bird.
 -- Canary wood, the beautiful wood of the trees Persea Indica and P.
Canariensis, natives of Madeira and the Canary Islands.
 -- Canary vine. See Canary bird flower, under Canary bird.

CANARY
Ca*na"ry, n.; pl. Canaries.

1. Wine made in the Canary Islands; sack. "A cup of canary." Shak.

2. A canary bird.

3. A pale yellow color, like that of a canary bird.

4. A quick and lively dance. [Obs.]
Make you dance canary With sprightly fire and motion. Shak.

CANARY
Ca*na"ry, v. i.

Defn: To perform the canary dance; to move nimbly; to caper. [Obs.]
But to jig of a tune at the tongue's end, canary to it with your
feet. Shak.
CANARY BIRD
Ca*na"ry bird`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small singing bird of the Finch family (Serinus Canarius), a
native of the Canary Islands. It was brought to Europe in the 16th
century, and made a household pet. It generally has a yellowish body
with the wings and tail greenish, but in its wild state it is more
frequently of gray or brown color. It is sometimes called canary
finch.canary.

Canary bird flower (Bot.), a climbing plant (Tropæolum peregrinum)
with canary-colored flowers of peculiar form; -- called also canary
vine.

CANASTER
Ca*nas"ter, n. Etym: [Sp. canasta, canastro, basket, fr. L.
canistrum. See Canister.]

Defn: A kind of tobacco for smoking, made of the dried leaves,
coarsely broken; -- so called from the rush baskets in which it is
packed in South America. McElrath.

CAN BUOY
Can" buoy`.

Defn: See under Buoy, n.

CANCAN
Can"can, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A rollicking French dance, accompanied by indecorous or
extravagant postures and gestures.

CANCEL
Can"cel, v. i. [Imp. & p. p. Canceled or Cancelled (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Canceling or Cancelling.] Etym: [L. cancellare to make like a
lattice, to strike or cross out (cf. Fr. canceller, OF. canceler) fr.
cancelli lattice, crossbars, dim. of cancer lattice; cf. Gr.
Chancel.]

1. To inclose or surround, as with a railing, or with latticework.
[Obs.]
A little obscure place canceled in with iron work is the pillar or
stump at which . . . our Savior was scourged. Evelyn.

2. To shut out, as with a railing or with latticework; to exclude.
[Obs.] "Canceled from heaven." Milton.

3. To cross and deface, as the lines of a writing, or as a word or
figure; to mark out by a cross line; to blot out or obliterate.
A deed may be avoided by delivering it up to be cancelled; that is,
to have lines drawn over it in the form of latticework or cancelli;
the phrase is now used figuratively for any manner of obliterating or
defacing it. Blackstone.

4. To annul or destroy; to revoke or recall.
The indentures were canceled. Thackeray.
He was unwilling to cancel the interest created through former secret
services, by being refractory on this occasion. Sir W. Scott.

5. (Print.)

Defn: To suppress or omit; to strike out, as matter in type. Canceled
figures (Print), figures cast with a line across the face., as for
use in arithmetics.

Syn.
 -- To blot out; Obliterate; deface; erase; efface; expunge; annul;
abolish; revoke; abrogate; repeal; destroy; do away; set aside. See
Abolish.

CANCEL
Can"cel, n. Etym: [See Cancel, v. i., and cf. Chancel.]

1. An inclosure; a boundary; a limit. [Obs.]
A prison is but a retirement, and opportunity of serious thoughts, to
a person whose spirit . . . desires no enlargement beyond the cancels
of the body. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Print)
(a) The suppression on striking out of matter in type, or of a
printed page or pages.
(b) The part thus suppressed.

CANCELIER
Can`cel*ier", v. i. Etym: [F. chanceler, OF. canseler, to waver,
orig. to cross the legs so as not to fall; from the same word as E.
cancel.] (Falconry)

Defn: To turn in flight; -- said of a hawk. [Obs.] Nares.
He makes his stoop; but wanting breath, is forced To cancelier.
Massinger.

CANCELIER; CANCELEER
Can`cel*ier", Can"cel*eer, n. (Falconry)

Defn: The turn of a hawk upon the wing to recover herself, when she
misses her aim in the stoop. [Obs.]
The fierce and eager hawks, down thrilling from the skies, Make
sundry canceliers are they the fowl can reach. Drayton.

CANCELLAREAN
Can`cel*la"re*an, a.

Defn: Cancellarean. [R.]

CANCELLATE
Can"cel*late, a. Etym: [L. cancellatus, p. p. of cancellare, See
Cancel, v. t.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Consisting of a network of veins, without intermediate
parenchyma, as the leaves of certain plant; latticelike.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the surface coveres with raised lines, crossing at right
angles.

CANCELLATED
Can"cel*la`ted, a.

1. Crossbarres; marked with cross lines. Grew.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Open or spongy, as some porous bones.

CANCELLATION
Can`cel*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. cancellatio: cf. F. cancellation.]

1. The act, process, or result of canceling; as, the cansellation of
certain words in a contract, or of the contract itself.

2. (Math.)

Defn: The operation of striking out common factora, in both the
dividend and divisor.

CANCELLI
Can*cel"li, n. pl. Etym: [L., a lattice. See Cancel, v. t.]

1. An interwoven or latticed wall or inclosure; latticework, rails,
or crossbars, as around the bar of a court of justice, between the
chancel and the have of a church, or in a window.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The interlacing osseous plates constituting the elastic porous
tissue of certain parts of the bones, esp. in their articular
extremities.

CANCELLOUS
Can"cel*lous, a. Etym: [Cf. L. cancellosus covered with bars.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Having a spongy or porous stracture; made up of cancelli;
cancellated; as, the cancellous texture of parts of many bones.

CANCER
Can"cer, n. Etym: [L. cancer, cancri, crab, ulcer, a sign of the
zodiac; akin to Gr. karka crab, and prob. Skr. karkara hard, the crab
being named from its hard shell. Cf. Canner, Chancre.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of decapod Crustacea, including some of the most common
shore crabs of Europe and North America, as the rock crab, Jonah
crab, etc. See Crab.

2. (Astron.)
(a) The fourth of the twelve signs of the zodiac. The first point is
the northern limit of the sun's course in summer; hence, the sign of
the summer solstice. See Tropic.
(b) A northern constellation between Gemini and Leo.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Formerly, any malignant growth, esp. one attended with great
pain and ulceration, with cachexia and progressive emaciation. It was
so called, perhaps, from the great veins which surround it, compared
by the ancients to the claws of a crab. The term it now restricted to
such a growth made up of aggregations of epithelial cells, either
without support or embedded in the meshes of a trabecular framework.

Note: Four kinds of cancers are recognized: (1) Epithelial cancer, or
Epithelioma, in which there is no trabecular framework. See
Epithelioma. (2) Scirrhous cancer, or Hard cancer, in which the
framework predominates, and the tumor is of hard consistence and slow
growth. (3) Encephaloid, Medullary, or Soft cancer, in which the
cellular element predominates, and the tumor is soft, grows rapidy,
and often ulcerates. (4) Colloid cancer, in which the cancerous
structure becomes gelatinous. The last three varieties are also
called carcinoma. Cancer cells, cells once believed to be peculiar to
cancers, but now know to be epithelial cells differing in no respect
from those found elsewhere in the body, and distinguished only by
peculiarity of location and grouping.
 -- Cancer root (Bot.), the name of several low plants, mostly
parasitic on roots, as the beech drops, the squawroot, etc.
 -- Tropic of Cancer. See Tropic.

CANCERATE
Can"cer*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cancerated.] Etym: [LL. canceratus
eaten by a cancer. See Cancer.]

Defn: To grow into a canser; to become cancerous. Boyle.

CANCERATION
Can`cer*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act or state of becoming cancerous or growing into a
cancer.

CANCERITE
Can"cer*ite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cancéreux.]

Defn: Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer;
affected with cancer. "Cancerous vices." G. Eliot.
 -- Can"cer*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Can"cer*ous*ness, n.

CANCEROUS
Can"cer*ous, a. [Cf. F. cancéreux]

Defn: Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer;
affected with cancer. "cancerous vices" G. Eliot.
[1913 Webster]

-- Can"cer*ous*ly, adv. --Can"cer*ous*ness, n.

CANCRIFORM
Can"cri*form, a. Etym: [Cancer + -form; cf. F. cancriforme.]

1. Having the form of, or resembling, a crab; crab-shaped.

2. Like a cancer; cancerous.

CANCRINE
Can"crine, a. Etym: [From Cancer.]

Defn: Having the qualities of a crab; crablike.

CANCRINITE
Can"cri*nite, n. Etym: [Named after Count Cancrin, a minister of
finance in Russia.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in hexagonal crystals, also massive,
generally of a yellow color, containing silica, alumina, lime, soda,
and carbon dioxide.

CANCROID
Can"croid, a. Etym: [Cancer + oid.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling a crab; pertaining to the Cancroidea, one of the
families of crabs, including the genus Cancer.

2. Like a cancer; as, a cancroid tumor.

CAND
Cand, n.

Defn: Fluor spar. See Kand.

CANDELABRUM
Can`de*la"brum n.; pl. L. Candelabra, E. Candelabrums. Etym: [L., fr.
candela candle. See candle.]

1. (Antiq.)
(a) A lamp stand of any sort.
(b) A highly ornamented stand of marble or other ponderous material,
usually having three feet, -- frequently a votive offering to a
temple.

2. A large candlestick, having several branches.

CANDENT
Can`dent, a. Etym: [L. candens, p. pr. of candëre to glitter. See
Candid.]

Defn: Heated to whiteness; glowing with heat. "A candent vessel."
Boyle.

CANDEROS
Can"de*ros, n.

Defn: An East Indian resin, of a pellucid white color, from which
small ornaments and toys are sometimes made.

CANDESCENCE
Can*des"cence, n.

Defn: See Inclandescence.

CANDESCENT
Can*des"cent, a. [L. candescens, -entis, p. pr. of candescere, v.
incho. fr. candere to shine.]

Defn: Glowing; luminous; incandescent.

CANDICANT
Can"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. candicans, p. pr. of candicare to be
whitish.]

Defn: Growing white. [Obs.]

CANDID
Can*did, a. Etym: [F. candide (cf. It. candido), L. candidus white,
fr. candëre to be of a glowing white; akin to accend, incend, to set
on fire, Skr. chand to shane. Cf. Candle, Incense.]

1. White. [Obs.]
The box receives all black; but poured from thence, The stones came
candid forth, the hue of innocence. Dryden.

2. Free from undue bias; disposed to think and judge according to
truth and justice, or without partiality or prejudice; fair; just;
impartial; as, a candid opinion. "Candid and dispassionate men." W.
Irving.

3. Open; frank; ingenuous; outspoken.

Syn.
 -- Fair; open; ingenuous; impartial; just; frank; artless; unbiased;
equitable.
 -- Candid, Fair, Open, Frank, Ingenuous. A man is fair when he puts
things on a just or equitable footing; he is candid when be looks
impartially on both sides of a subject, doing justice especially to
the motives and conduct of an opponent; he is open and frank when he
declares his sentiments without reserve; he is ingenuous when he does
this from a noble regard for truth. Fair dealing; candid
investigation; an open temper; a frank disposition; an ingenuous
answer or declaration.

CANDIDACY
Can"di*da*cy, n.

Defn: The position of a candidate; state of being a candidate;
candidateship.

CANDIDATE
Can"di*date, n. Etym: [L. Candidatus, n. (because candidates for
office in Rome were clothed in a white toga.) fr. candidatus clothed
in white, fr. candiduslittering, white: cf. F. candidat.]

Defn: One who offers himself, or is put forward by others, as a
suitable person or an aspirant or contestant for an office,
privilege, or honor; as, a candidate for the office of governor; a
candidate for holy orders; a candidate for scholastic honors.

CANDIDATESHIP
Can"di*date*ship, n.

Defn: Candidacy.

CANDIDATING
Can"di*da`ting, n.

Defn: The taking of the position of a candidate; specifically, the
preaching of a clergyman with a view to settlement. [Cant, U. S.]

CANDIDATURE
Can"di*da*ture, n.

Defn: Candidacy.

CANDIDLY
Can"did*ly, adv.

Defn: In a candid manner.

CANDIDNESS
Can"did*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being candid.

CANDIED
Can"died, a. Etym: [From 1st Candy.]

1. Preserved in or with sugar; incrusted with a candylike substance;
as, candied fruits.

2.
(a) Converted wholly or partially into sugar or candy; as candied
sirup.
(b) Conted or more or less with sugar; as, candidied raisins.
(c) Figuratively; Honeyed; sweet; flattering.
Let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp. Shak.

3. Covered or incrusted with that which resembles sugar or candy.
Will the cold brook, Candiedwith ice, caudle thy morning tast Shak.

CANDIFY
Can"di*fy, v. t. or v. i. Etym: [L. candificare; candëre to be white
+ -facere to make.]

Defn: To make or become white, or candied. [R.]

CANDIOT
Can"di*ot, a. Etym: [Cf. F. candiote.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Candia; Cretary.

CANDITE
Can"dite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of spinel, of a dark color, found at Candy, in
Ceylon.

CANDLE
Can"dle, n. Etym: [OE. candel, candel, AS, candel, fr. L. candela a
(white) light made of wax or tallow, fr. candëre to be white. See
Candid, and cf. Chandler, Cannel, Kindle.]

1. A slender, cylindrical body of tallow, containing a wick composed
of loosely twisted linen of cotton threads, and used to furnish
light.
How far that little candle throws his beams! So shines a good deed in
a naughty world. Shak.

Note: Candles are usually made by repeatedly dipping the wicks in the
melted tallow, etc. ("dipped candles"), or by casting or running in a
mold.

2. That which gives light; a luminary.
By these blessed candles of the night. Shak.
Candle nut, the fruit of a euphorbiaceous shrub (Aleurites triloba),
a native of some of the Pacific islands; -- socalled because, when
dry, it will burn with a bright flame, and is used by the natives as
a candle. The oil has many uses.
 -- Candle power (Photom.), illuminating power, as of a lamp, or gas
flame, reckoned in terms of the light of a standard candle. Electric
candle, A modification of the electric arc lamp, in which the carbon
rods, instead of being placed end to end, are arranged side by side,
and at a distance suitable for the formation of the arc at the tip; -
- called also, from the name of the inventor, Jablockoff candle.
 -- Excommunication by inch of candle, a form of excommunication in
which the offender is allowed time to repent only while a candle
burns.
 -- Not worth the candle, not worth the cost or trouble.
 -- Rush candle, a candle made of the pith of certain rushes, peeled
except on one side, and dipped in grease.
 -- Sale by inch of candle, an auction in which persons are allowed
to bid only till a small piece of candle burns out.
 -- Standard candle (Photom.), a special form of candle employed as a
standard in photometric measurements; usually, a candle of spermaceti
so constructed as to burn at the rate of 120 grains, or 7.8 grams,
per hour.
 -- To curse by bell, book and candle. See under Bell.

CANDLEBERRY TREE
Can"dle*ber`ry tree. (Bot.)

Defn: A shrub (the Myrica cerifera, or wax-bearing myrtle), common in
North America, the little nuts of which are covered with a greenish
white wax, which was formerly, used for hardening candles; -- also
called bayberry tree, bayberry, or candleberry.

CANDLEBOMB
Can"dle*bomb`, n.

1. A small glass bubble, filled with water, which, if placed in the
flame of a candle, bursts by expansion of steam.

2. A pasteboard shell used in signaling. It is filled with a
composition which makes a brilliant light when it explodes. Farrow.

CANDLE COAL
Can"dle coal`.

Defn: See Cannel coal.

CANDLEFISH
Can"dle*fish`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) A marine fish (Thaleichthys Pacificus), allied to the smelt,
found on the north Pacific coast; -- called also eulachon. It is so
oily that, when dried, it may be used as a candle, by drawing a wick
through it.
(b) The beshow.

CANDLE FOOT
Candle foot. (Photom.)

Defn: The illumination produced by a British standard candle at a
distance of one foot; --used as a unit of illumination.

CANDLEHOLDER
Can"dle*hold`er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, holds a candle; also, one who assists
another, but is otherwise not of importance. Shak.

CANDLELIGHT
Can"dle*light`, n.

Defn: The light of a candle.
Never went by candlelight to bed. Dryden.

CANDLEMAS
Can"dle*mas, n. Etym: [AS. candelmæsse, candel candle _ mæsse mass.]

Defn: The second day of February, on which is celebrated the feast of
the Purification of the Virgin Mary; -- so called because the candles
for the altar or other sacred uses are blessed on that day.

CANDLE METER
Candle meter. (Photom.)

Defn: The illumination given by a standard candle at a distance of
one meter; -- used as a unit of illumination, except in Great
Britain.

CANDLENUT
Can"dle*nut`, n.

1. The fruit of a euphorbiaceous tree or shrub (Aleurites moluccana),
native of some of the Pacific islands. It is used by the natives as a
candle. The oil from the nut ( candlenut, or kekune, oil) has many
uses.

2.  The tree itself.

CANDLEPIN
Can`dle*pin`, n. (Tenpins)
 (a) A form of pin slender and nearly straight like a candle.
 (b) The game played with such pins; -- in form candlepins, used as a
singular.

CANDLE POWER
Candle power. (Photom.)

Defn: Illuminating power, as of a lamp, or gas flame, reckoned in
terms of the light of a standard candle.

CANDLESTICK
Can"dle*stick`, n. Etym: [AS. candel-sticca; candel candle + sticca
stick.]

Defn: An instrument or utensil for supporting a candle.

CANDLEWASTER
Can"dle*wast`er, n.

Defn: One who consumes candles by being up late for study or
dissipation.
A bookworm, a candlewaster. B. Jonson.

CANDOCK
Can"dock n. Etym: [Prob. fr. can + dock (the plant). Cf. G.
kannenkraut horsetail, lit. "canweed."] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant or weed that grows in rivers; a species of of
Equisetum; also, the yellow frog lily (Nuphar luteum).

CANDOR
Can"dor, n. [Written also candour.] Etym: [L. candor, fr. candëre;
cf. F. candeur. See candid.]

1. Whiteness; brightness; (as applied to moral conditions) usullied
purity; innocence. [Obs.]
Nor yor unquestioned integrity Shall e'er be sullied with one taint
or spot That may take from your innocence and candor. Massinger.

2. A disposition to treat subjects with fairness; freedom from
prejudice or disguise; frankness; sincerity.
Attribute superior sagacity and candor to those who held that side of
the question. Whewell.

CANDROY
Can"droy, n.

Defn: A machine for spreading out cotton cloths to prepare them for
printing.

CANDY
Can"dy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Candied; p. pr & vb. n. Candying.] Etym:
[F. candir (cf. It. candire, Sp. azúcar cande or candi), fr. Ar. &
Pers. qand, fr. Skr. Khan\'c8da piece, sugar in pieces or lumps, fr.
khan\'c8, khad to break.]

1. To conserve or boil in sugar; as, to candy fruits; to candy
ginger.

2. To make sugar crystals of or in; to form into a mass resembling
candy; as, to candy sirup.

3. To incrust with sugar or with candy, or with that which resembles
sugar or candy.
Those frosts that winter brings Which candy every green. Drayson.

CANDY
Can"dy, v. i.

1. To have sugar crystals form in or on; as, fruits preserved in
sugar candy after a time.

2. To be formed into candy; to solidify in a candylike form or mass.

CANDY
Can"dy n. Etym: [F. candi. See Candy, v. t.]

Defn: A more or less solid article of confectionery made by boiling
sugar or molasses to the desired consistency, and than crystallizing,
molding, or working in the required shape. It is often flavored or
colored, and sometimes contains fruit, nuts, etc.

CANDY
Candy, n. Etym: [Mahratta khan\'c8i, Tamil kan\'c8i.]

Defn: A weight, at Madras 500 pounds, at Bombay 560 pounds.

CANDYTUFT
Can"dy*tuft`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An annual plant of the genus Iberis, cultivated in gardens. The
name was originally given to the I. umbellata, first, discovered in
the island of Candia.

CANE
Cane, n. Etym: [OE. cane, canne, OF. cane, F. canne, L. canna, fr.
Gr. qaneh reed. Cf. Canister, canon, 1st Cannon.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) A name given to several peculiar palms, species of Calamus and
Dæmanorops, having very long, smooth flexible stems, commonly called
rattans.
(b) Any plant with long, hard, elastic stems, as reeds and bamboos of
many kinds; also, the sugar cane.
(c) Stems of other plants are sometimes called canes; as, the canes
of a raspberry.
Like light canes, that first rise big and brave. B. Jonson.

Note: In the Southern United States great cane is the Arundinaria
macrosperma, and small cane is. A. tecta.

2. A walking stick; a staff; -- so called because originally made of
one the species of cane.
Stir the fire with your master's cane. Swift.

3. A lance or dart made of cane. [R.]
Judgelike thou sitt'st, to praise or to arraign The flying skirmish
of the darted cane. Dryden.

4. A local European measure of length. See Canna. Cane borer (Zoö.),
A beetle (Oberea bimaculata) which, in the larval state, bores into
pith and destroy the canes or stalks of the raspberry, blackberry,
etc.
 -- Cane mill, a mill for grinding sugar canes, for the manufacture
of sugar.
 -- Cane trash, the crushed stalks and other refuse of sugar cane,
used for fuel, etc.

CANE
Cane, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Caned; p. pr. & vb. n. Caning.]

1. To beat with a cane. Macaulay.

2. To make or furnish with cane or rattan; as, to cane chairs.

CANEBRAKE
Cane"brake, n.

Defn: A thicket of canes. Ellicott.

CANED
Caned, a. Etym: [Cf. L. canus white.]

Defn: Filled with white flakes; mothery; -- said vinegar when
containing mother. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

CANELLA
Ca*nel"la, n. Etym: [LL. (OE. canel, canelle, cinnamon, fr. F.
cannelle), Dim. of L. canna a reed. Canella is so called from the
shape of the rolls of prepared bark. See Cane.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees of the order Canellaceæ, growing in the West
Indies.

Note: The principal species is Canella alba, and its bark is a spice
and drug exported under the names of wild cinnamon and whitewood
bark.

CANESCENT
Ca*nes"cent, a. Etym: [L. canescens, p. pr. of canescere, v.
inchoative of canere to be white.]

Defn: Growing white, or assuming a color approaching to white.

CANGUE
Cangue (kang), n. [Written also cang.] [F. cangue, fr. Pg. canga
yoke.]

Defn: A very broad and heavy wooden collar which certain offenders in
China are compelled to wear as a punishment.

CAN HOOK
Can" hook`.

Defn: A device consisting of a short rope with flat hooks at each
end, for hoisting casks or barrels by the ends of the staves.

CANICULA; CANNICULA
Ca*nic"u*la, Can*nic"u*la, n. Etym: [L. canicula, lit., a little dog,
a dim of canis dog; cf. F. canicule.] (Astron.)

Defn: The Dog Star; Sirius.

CANICULAR
Ca*nic"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. canicularis; cf. F. caniculaire.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or measured, by the rising of the Dog Star.
Canicular days, the dog days, See Dog days.
 -- Canicular year, the Egyptian year, computed from one heliacal
rising of the Dog Star to another.

CANICULE
Can"i*cule, n.

Defn: Canicula. Addison.

CANINAL
Ca*ni"nal, a.

Defn: See Canine, a.

CANINE
Ca*nine", a. Etym: [L. caninus, fr. canis dog: cf. F. canin. See
Hound.]

1. Of or pertaining to the family Canidæ, or dogs and wolves; having
the nature or qualities of a dog; like that or those of a dog.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the pointed tooth on each side the
incisors. Canine appetite, a morbidly voracious appetite; bulimia.
 -- Canine letter, the letter r. See R.
 -- Canine madness, hydrophobia.
 -- Canine toth, a toth situated between the incisor and bicuspid
teeth, so called because well developen in dogs; usually, the third
tooth from the front on each side of each jaw; an eyetooth, or the
corresponding tooth in the lower jaw.

CANINE
Ca*nine", n. (Anat.)

Defn: A canine tooth.

CANIS
Ca"nis, n.; pl. Canes 3. Etym: [L., a dog.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of carnivorous mammals, of the family Canidæ, including
the dogs and wolves. Canis major Etym: [L., larger dog], a
constellation to the southeast of Orion, containing Sirius or the Dog
Star.
 -- Canis minor Etym: [L., smaller dog], a constellation to the east
of Orion, containing Procyon, a star of the first magnitude.

CANISTER
Can"is*ter, n. Etym: [L. canistrum a basket woven from reeds Gr.
canistre. See Cane, and Canaster.]

1. A small basket of rushes, or wilow twigs, etc.

2. A small box or case for holding tea, coffee, etc.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: A kind of case shot for cannon, in which a number of lead or
iron balls in layers are inclosed in a case fitting the gun; --
called also canister shot,

CANKER
Can"ker, n. Etym: [OE. canker, cancre, AS. cancer (akin to D. kanker,
OHG chanchar.), fr. L. cancer a cancer; or if a native word, cf. Gr.
cancre, F. chancere, fr. L. cancer. See cancer, and cf. Chancre.]

1. A corroding or sloughing ulcer; esp. a spreading gangrenous ulcer
or collection of ulcers in or about the mouth; -- called also water
canker, canker of the mouth, and noma.

2. Anything which corrodes, corrupts, or destroy.
The cankers of envy and faction. Temple.

3. (Hort.)

Defn: A disease incident to trees, causing the bark to rot and fall
off.

4. (Far.)

Defn: An obstinate and often incurable disease of a horse's foot,
characterized by separation of the horny portion and the development
of fungoid growths; -- usually resulting from neglected thrush.

5. A kind of wild, worthless rose; the dog-rose.
To put down Richard, that sweet lovely rose. And plant this thorm,
this canker, Bolingbroke. Shak.
Black canker. See under Black.

CANKER
Can"ker, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cankered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cankering.]

1. To affect as a canker; to eat away; to corrode; to consune.
No lapse of moons can canker Love. Tennyson.

2. To infect or pollute; to corrupt. Addison.
A tithe purloined canker the whole estate. Herbert.

CANKER
Can"ker, v. i.

1. To waste away, grow rusty, or be oxidized, as a mineral. [Obs.]
Silvering will sully and canker more than gliding. Bacom.

2. To be or become diseased, or as if diseased, with canker; to grow
corrupt; to become venomous.
Deceit and cankered malice. Dryden.
As with age his body uglier grows, So his mind cankers. Shak.

CANKER-BIT
Can"ker-bit`, a.

Defn: Eaten out by canker, or as by canker. [Obs.]

CANKER BLOOM
Can"ker bloom`.

Defn: The bloom or blossom of the wild rose or dog-rose.

CANKER BLOSSOM
Can"ker blos`som.

Defn: That which blasts a blossom as a canker does. [Obs.]
O me! you juggler! you canker blossom! You thief of Love! Shak.

CANKERED
Can"kered, a.

1. Affected with canker; as, a cankered mouth.

2. Affected mentally or morally as with canker; sore, envenomed;
malignant; fretful; ill-natured. "A cankered grandam's will." Shak.

CANKEREDLY
Can"kered*ly, adv.

Defn: Fretfully; spitefully.

CANKER FLY
Can"ker fly`.

Defn: A fly that preys on fruit.

CANKEROUS
Can"ker*ous, a.

Defn: Affecting like a canker. "Canrerous shackles." Thomson.
Misdeem it not a cankerous change. Wordsworth.

CANKER RASH
Can"ker rash". (Med.)

Defn: A form of scarlet fever characterized by ulcerated or putrid
sore throat.

CANKERWORM
Can"ker*worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larva of two species of geometrid moths which are very
injurious to fruit and shade trees by eating, and often entirely
destroying, the foliage. Other similar larvæ are also called
cankerworms.

Note: The autumnal species (Anisopteryx pometaria) becomes adult late
in autumn (after frosts) and in winter. The spring species (A.
vernata) remains in the ground through the winter, and matures in
early spring. Both have winged males and wingless females. The larvæ
are similar in appearance and habits, and beling to the family of
measuring worms or spanworms. These larvæ hatch from the eggs when
the leaves being to expand in spring.

CANKERY
Can"ker*y, a.

1. Like a canker; full of canker.

2. Surly; sore; malignant.

CANNA
Can"na, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A measure of length in Italy, varying from six to seven feet.
See Cane, 4.

CANNA
Can"na, n. Etym: [L., a reed. See Cane.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical plants, with large leaves and often with
showy flowers. The Indian shot. (C. Indica) is found in gardens of
the northern United States.

CANNABENE
Can"na*bene, n. Etym: [From Cannabis.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless oil obtained from hemp dy distillation, and
possessing its intoxicating properties.

CANNABIN
Can"na*bin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A pisonous resin extracted from hemp (Cannabis sativa, variety
Indica). The narcotic effects of hasheesh are due to this resin.

CANNABINE
Can"na*bine, a. Etym: [L. cannabinus.]

Defn: Pertaining to hemp; hempen. [R.]

CANNABIS
Can"na*bis, n. Etym: [L., hemp. See Canvas.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of a single species belonging to the order Uricaceæ;
hemp. Cannabis Indica (, the Indian hemp, a powerful narcotic, now
considered a variety of the common hemp.

CANNEL COAL
Can"nel coal`. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. ndle coal.]

Defn: A kind of mineral coal of a black color, sufficiently hard and
solid to be cut and polished. It burns readily, with a clear, yellow
flame, and on this account has been used as a substitute for candles.

CANNELE
Can`ne*lé", n. [F., pop., fluted.] (Textiles)

Defn: A style of interweaving giving to fabrics a channeled or fluted
effect; also, a fabric woven so as to have this effect; a rep.

CANNELURE
Can"ne*lure (kan"ne*lur), n. [F., fr. canneler to groove.] (Mil.)

Defn: A groove in any cylinder; specif., a groove around the cylinder
of an elongated bullet for small arms to contain a lubricant, or
around the rotating band of a gun projectile to lessen the resistance
offered to the rifling. Also, a groove around the base of a
cartridge, where the extractor takes hold. --Can"ne*lured (#), a.

CANNERY
Can"ner*y, n.

Defn: A place where the business of canning fruit, meat, etc., is
carried on. [U. S.]

CANNIBAL
Can"ni*bal, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cannibale. Columbus, in a letter to the
Spanish monarchs written in Oct., 1498, mentions that the people of
Hayti lived in great fear of the Caribales (equivalent to E.
Caribbees.), the inhabitants of the smaller Antilles; which form of
the name was afterward changed into NL. Canibales, in order to
express more forcibly their character by a word intelligible through
a Latin root "propter rabiem caninam anthropophagorum gentis." The
Caribbees call themselves, in their own language. Calinago, Carinago,
Calliponam, and, abbreviated, Calina, signifying a brave, from which
Columbus formed his Caribales.]

Defn: A human being that eats human flesh; hence, any that devours
its own kind. Darwin.

CANNIBAL
Can"ni*bal, a.

Defn: Relating to cannibals or cannibalism. "Cannibal terror." Burke.

CANNIBALISM
Can"ni*bal*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cannibalisme.]

Defn: The act or practice of eating human flesh by mankind. Hence;
Murderous cruelty; barbarity. Berke.

CANNIBALLY
Can"ni*bal*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of cannibal. "An he had been cannibally given."
Shak.

CANNIKIN
Can"ni*kin, n. Etym: [Can + -kin.]

Defn: A small can or drinking vessel.

CANNILY
Can"ni*ly, adv.

Defn: In a canny manner. [N. of Eng. & Scot.]

CANNINESS
Can"ni*ness, n.

Defn: Caution; crafty management. [N. of Eng. & Scot.]

CANNON
Can"non, n.; pl.Cannons, collectively Cannon. Etym: [F. cannon, fr.
L. canna reed, pipe, tube. See Cane.]

1. A great gun; a piece of ordnance or artillery; a firearm for
discharging heavy shot with great force.

Note: Cannons are made of various materials, as iron, brass, bronze,
and steel, and of various sizes and shapes with respect to the
special service for which they are intended, as intended, as siege,
seacoast, naval, field, or mountain, guns. They always aproach more
or less nearly to a cylindrical from, being usually thicker toward
the breech than at the muzzle. Formerly they were cast hollow,
afterwards they were cast, solid, and bored out. The cannon now most
in use for the armament of war vessels and for seacoast defense
consists of a forged steel tube reinforced with massive steel rings
shrunk upon it. Howitzers and mortars are sometimes called cannon.
See Gun.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: A hollow cylindrical piece carried by a revolving shaft, on
which it may, however, revolve independently.

3. (Printing.)

Defn: A kind of type. See Canon. Cannon ball, strictly, a round solid
missile of stone or iron made to be fired from a cannon, but now
often applied to a missile of any shape, whether solid or hollow,
made for cannon. Elongated and cylindrical missiles are sometimes
called bolts; hollow ones charged with explosives are properly called
shells.
 -- Cannon bullet, a cannon ball. [Obs.] -- Cannon cracker, a fire
cracker of large size.
 -- Cannon lock, a device for firing a cannon by a percussion primer.
 -- Cannon metal. See Gun Metal.
 -- Cannon pinion, the pinion on the minute hand arbor of a watch or
clock, which drives the hand but permits it to be moved in setting.
 -- Cannon proof, impenetrable by cannon balls.
 -- Cannon shot. (a) A cannon ball. (b) The range of a cannon.

CANNON
Can"non, n. & v. (Billiards)

Defn: See Carom. [Eng.]

CANNONADE
Can"non*ade", n. Etym: [F. Canonnade; cf. It. cannanata.]

1. The act of discharging cannon and throwing ball, shell, etc., for
the purpose of destroying an army, or battering a town, ship, or
fort; -- usually, an attack of some continuance.
A furious cannonade was kept up from the whole circle of batteries on
the devoted towm. Prescott.

2. Fig.; A loud noise like a cannonade; a booming.
Blue Walden rolls its cannonade. Ewerson.

CANNONADE
Can`non*ade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cannonade; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cannonading.]

Defn: To attack with heavy artillery; to batter with cannon shot.

CANNONADE
Can`non*ade", v. i.

Defn: To discharge cannon; as, the army cannonaded all day.

CANNON BONE
Can"non bone. (Anat.)

Defn: See Canon Bone.

CANNONED
Can"noned (, a.

Defn: Furnished with cannon. [Poetic] "Gilbralter's cannoned steep."
M. Arnold.

CANNONEER; CANNONIER
Can`non*eer", Can`non*ier", n. Etym: [F. canonnier.]

Defn: A man who manages, or fires, cannon.

CANNONERING
Can`non*er"ing, n.

Defn: The use of cannon. Burke.

CANNONRY
Can"non*ry, n.

Defn: Cannon, collectively; artillery.
The ringing of bells and roaring of cannonry proclaimed his course
through the country. W. Irving.

CANNOT
Can"not. Etym: [Can to be able _ -not.]

Defn: Am, is, or are, not able; -- written either as one word or two.

CANNULA
Can"nu*la, n. Etym: [L. cannula a small tube of dim. of canna a reed,
tube.] (Surg.)

Defn: A small tube of metal, wood, or India rubber, used for various
purposes, esp. for injecting or withdrawing fluids. It is usually
associated with a trocar. [Written also canula.]

CANNULAR
Can"nu*lar, a.

Defn: Having the form of a tube; tubular. [Written also canular.]

CANNULATED
Can"nu*la`ted, a.

Defn: Hollow; affording a passage through its interior length for
wire, thread, etc.; as, a cannulated (suture) needle. [Written also
canulated.]

CANNY; CANNEI
Can"ny, Can"nei, a. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kenn skilled, learned, or E.
canny. Cf. Kenn.] [North of Eng. & Scot.]

1. Artful; cunning; shrewd; wary.

2. Skillful; knowing; capable. Sir W. Scott.

3. Cautious; prudent; safe.. Ramsay.

4. Having pleasing of useful qualities; gentle. Burns.

5. Reputed to have magical powers. Sir W. Scott. No canny, not safe,
not fortunate; unpropitious. [Scot.]

CANOE
Ca*noe", n.; pl. Canoes. Etym: [Sp. canoa, fr. Caribbean canáoa.]

1. A boat used by rude nations, formed of trunk of a tree, excavated,
by cutting of burning, into a suitable shape. It is propelled by a
paddle or paddles, or sometimes by sail, and has no rudder.
Others devised the boat of one tree, called the canoe. Raleigh.

2. A boat made of bark or skins, used by savages.
A birch canoe, with paddles, rising, falling, on the water.
Longfellow.

3. A light pleasure boat, especially designed for use by one who goes
alone upon long excursions, including portage. It it propelled by a
paddle, or by a small sail attached to a temporary mast.

CANOE
Ca*noe", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Canoed p. pr. & vb. n. Canoeing (.]

Defn: To manage a canoe, or voyage in a canoe.

CANOEING
Ca*noe"ing n.

Defn: The act or art of using a canoe.

CANOEIST
Ca*noe"ist, n.

Defn: A canoeman.

CANOEMAN
Ca*noe"man, n.; pl. Canoemen.

Defn: One who uses a canoe; one who travels in a canoe.
Cabins and clearing greeted the eye of the passing canoeman. Parkman.

CANON
Can"on, n. Etym: [OE. canon, canoun, AS. canon rule (cf. F. canon,
LL. canon, and, for sense 7, F. chanoine, LL. canonicus), fr. L.
canon a measuring line, rule, model, fr. Gr. Cane, and cf.
Canonical.]

1. A law or rule.
Or that the Everlasting had not fixed His canon 'gainst self-
slaughter. Shak.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A law, or rule of doctrine or discipline, enacted by a council
and confirmed by the pope or the sovereign; a decision, regulation,
code, or constitution made by ecclesiastical authority.
Various canons which were made in councils held in the second centry.
Hock.

3. The collection of books received as genuine Holy Scriptures,
called the sacred canon, or general rule of moral and religious duty,
given by inspiration; the Bible; also, any one of the canonical
Scriptures. See Canonical books, under Canonical, a.

4. In monasteries, a book containing the rules of a religious order.

5. A catalogue of saints sckowledged and canonized in the Roman
Catholic Church.

6. A member of a cathedral chapter; a person who possesses a prebend
in a cathedral or collegiate church.

7. (Mus.)

Defn: A musical composition in which the voice begin one after
another, at regular intervals, succesively taking up the same
subject. It either winds up with a coda (tailpiece), or, as each
voice finishes, commences anew, thus forming a perpetual fugue or
round. It is the strictest form of imitation. See Imitation.

8. (Print.)

Defn: The largest size of type having a specific name; -- so called
from having been used for printing the canons of the church.

9. The part of a bell by which it is suspended; -- called also ear
and shank.

Note: [See Illust. of Bell.] Knight.

10. (Billiards)

Defn: See Carom. Apostolical canons. See under Apostolical.
 -- Augustinian canons, Black canons. See under Augustinian.
 -- Canon capitular, Canon residentiary, a resident member of a
cathedral chapter (during a part or the whole of the year).
 -- Canon law. See under Law.
 -- Canon of the Mass (R. C. Ch.), that part of the mass, following
the Sanctus, which never changes.
 -- Honorary canon, a canon who neither lived in a monastery, nor
kept the canonical hours.
 -- Minor canon (Ch. of Eng.), one who has been admitted to a
chapter, but has not yet received a prebend.
 -- Regular canon (R. C. Ch.), one who lived in a conventual
community and follower the rule of St. Austin; a Black canon.
 -- Secular canon (R. C. Ch.), one who did not live in a monastery,
but kept the hours.

CANON; CANYON
Ca*ñon", n. Etym: [Sp., a tube or hollow, fr. caña reed, fr. L.
canna. See Cane.]

Defn: A deep gorge, ravine, or gulch, between high and steep banks,
worn by water courses. [Mexico & Western U. S.]

CANON BIT
Can"on bit`. Etym: [F. canon, fr. L. canon a rule.]

Defn: That part of a bit which is put in a horse's mouth.

CANON BONE
Can"on bone`. Etym: [F. canon, fr. L. canon a rule. See canon.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The shank bone, or great bone above the fetlock, in the fore
and hind legs of the horse and allied animals, corresponding to the
middle metacarpal or metatarsal bone of most mammals. See Horse.

CANONESS
Can"on*ess, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. canonissa.]

Defn: A woman who holds a canonry in a conventual chapter. Regular
canoness, one bound by the poverty, and observing a strict rule of
life.
 -- Secular canoness, one allowed to hold private property, and bound
only by vows of chastity and obedience so long as she chose to remain
in the chapter.

CANONIC; CANNONICAL
Ca*non"ic, Can*non"ic*al, a Etym: [L. cannonicus, LL. canonicalis,
fr. L. canon: cf. F. canonique. See canon.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a canon; established by, or according to a
, canon or canons. "The oath of canonical obedience." Hallam.
Canonical books, or Canonical Scriptures, those books which are
declared by the canons of the church to be of divine inspiration; --
called collectively the canon. The Roman Catolic Church holds as
canonical several books which Protestants reject as apocryphal.
 -- Canonical epistles, an appellation given to the epistles called
also general or catholic. See Catholic epistles, under Canholic.
 -- Canonical form (Math.), the simples or most symmetrical form to
which all functions of the same class can be reduced without lose of
generality.
 -- Canonical hours, certain stated times of the day, fixed by
ecclesiastical laws, and appropriated to the offices of prayer and
devotion; also, certain portions of the Breviary, to be used at
stated hours of the day. In England, this name is also given to the
hours from 8 a. m. to 3 p. m. (formerly 8 a. m. to 12 m.) before and
after which marriage can not be legally performed in any parish
church.
 -- Canonical letters, letters of several kinds, formerly given by a
dishop to traveling clergymam or laymen, to show that they were
entitled to receive the cammunion, and to distinguish them from
heretics.
 -- Canonical life, the method or rule of living prescribed by the
ancient cleargy who lived in community; a course of living prescribed
for the clergy, less rigid that the monastic, and more restrained
that the secular.
 -- Canonical obedience, submission to the canons of a canons of a
church, especially the submission of the inferior cleargy to their
bishops, and of other religious orders to their supriors.
 -- Canonical punishments, such as the church may inflict, as
excommunication, degradation, penance, etc.
 -- Canonical sins (Anc. Church.), those for which capital punishment
or puplic penance decreed by the canon was inflicted, as idolatry,
murder, adultery, heresy.

CANONICALLY
Ca*non"ic*al*ly, adv. In a canonical manner

Defn: ; according to the canons.

CANONICALNESS
Ca*non"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being canonical; canonicity. Bp. Burnet.

CANONICALS
Ca*non"ic*als, n. pl.

Defn: The dress prescribed by canon to be worn by a clergyman when
oficiating. Sometimes, any distinctive professional dress. Full
canonicals, the complete costume of an officiating clergyman or
ecclesiastic.

CANONICATE
Ca*non"i*cate, n. Etym: [LL. canonucatus canonical: cf. F.
canonicat.]

Defn: The office of a canon; a canonry.

CANONICITY
Can`on*ic"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. canonicité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being canonical; agreement with the
canon.

CANONIST
Can"on*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. canoniste.]

Defn: A professor of canon law; one skilled in the knowledge and
practice of ecclesiastical law. South.

CANONISTIC
Can`on*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a canonist. "This canonistic exposition."
Milton.

CANONIZATION
Can`on*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [F. canonisation.]

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The final process or decree (following beatifacation) by which
the name of a deceased person is placed in the catalogue (canon) of
saints and commended to perpetual veneration and invocation.
Canonization of saints was not known to the Christian church titl
toward the middle of the tenth century. Hoock.

2. The state of being canonized or sainted.

CANONIZE
Can"on*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Canonized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Canonizing.] Etym: [F. canoniser or LL. canonizare, fr. L. canon..
See Canon.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: To declare (a deceased person) a saint; to put in the catalogue
of saints; as, Thomas a Becket was canonized.

2. To glorify; to exalt to the highest honor.
Fame in time to come canonize us. Shak.

2. To rate as inspired; to include in the canon.[R.]

CANONRY
Can"on*ry, n. pl. Canonries (.

Defn: A benefice or prebend in a cathedral or collegiate church; a
right to a place in chapter and to a portion of its revenues; the
dignity or emoluments of a canon.

CANONSHIP
Can"on*ship, a.

Defn: Of pertaining to Canopus in egypt; as, the Canopic vases, used
in embalming.

CANOPUS
Ca*no"pus, n. Etym: [L. Canopus, fr. Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: A star of the first magnitude in the southern constellation
Argo.

CANOPY
Can"o*py, n.; pl. Canopies. Etym: [Oe. canopie, F. canopésofa, Of
canopée, canopeu, canopieu, canopy, vail, pavilion (cf. It.
canepècanopy, sofa), LL. canopeum a bed with mosquito curtains, fr.
Gr. Cone, and Optic.]

1. A covering fixed over a bed, dais, or the like, or carried on
poles over an exalted personage or a sacred object, etc. chiefly as a
mark of honor. "Golden canoniec and beds of state." Dryden.

2. (Arch.)
(a) An ornamental projection, over a door, window, niche, etc.
(b) Also, a roofike covering, supported on pilars over an altar, a
statue, a fountain, etc.

CANOPY
Can"o*py, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Canopes; p. pr. & vb. n. Canopying.]

Defn: To cover with, or as with, a canopy. "A bank with ivy
canopied." Milton.

CANOROUS
Ca*no"rous, a. Etym: [L. canorus, from nor melody, fr. canere to
sing.]

Defn: Melodious; musical. "Birds that are most canorous." Sir T.
Browne.
A long, lound, and canorous peal of laughter. De Quincey.

CANOROUSNESS
Ca*no"rous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being musical.
He chooses his language for its rich canorousness. Lowell.

CANSTICK
Can"stick`, n.

Defn: Candlestick. [Obs.] Shak.

CANT
Cant, n. Etym: [OF., edge, angle, prof. from L. canthus the iron ring
round a carriage wheel, a wheel, Gr. cant the stake or tire of a
wheel. Cf. Canthus, Canton, Cantle.]

1. A corner; angle; niche. [Obs.]
The first and principal person in the temple was Irene, or Peace; she
was placed aloft in a cant. B. Jonson.

2. An outer or external angle.

3. An inclination from a horizontal or vertical line; a slope or
bevel; a titl. Totten.

4. A sudden thrust, push, kick, or other impulse, producing a bias or
change of direction; also, the bias or turn so give; as, to give a
ball a cant.

5. (Coopering)

Defn: A segment forming a side piece in the head of a cask. Knight.

6. (Mech.)

Defn: A segment of he rim of a wooden cogwheel. Knight.

7. (Naut.)

Defn: A piece of wood laid upon athe deck of a vessel to support the
bulkneads. Cant frames, Cant timbers (Naut.), timber at the two ends
of a ship, rising obliquely from the keel.

CANT
Cant, v. t. [imp & p. p. Canted; p. pr. & vb. N. Canting.]

1. To incline; to set at an angle; to titl over; to tip upon the
edge; as, to cant a cask; to cant a ship.

2. To give a sudden turn or new direction to; as, to cant round a
stick of timber; to cant a football.

3. To cut off an angle from, as from a square piece of timber, or
from the head of a bolt.

CANT
Cant, n. Etym: [Prob. from OF. cant, F. chant, singing, in allusion
to the singing or whining tine of voice used by beggars, fr. L.
cantus. See Chant.]

1. An affected, singsong mode of speaking.

2. The idioms and peculiarities of speech in any sect, class, or
occupation. Goldsmith.
The cant of any profession. Dryden.

3. The use of religious phraseology without understanding or
sincerity; empty, solemn speech, implying what is not felt;
hypocrisy.
They shall hear no cant fromF. W. Robertson

4. Vulgar jargon; slang; the secret language spoker by gipsies,
thieves. tramps, or beggars.

CANT
Cant, a.

Defn: Of the nature of cant; affected; vulgar.
To introduce and multiply cant words in the most ruinous corruption
in any language. Swift.

CANT
Cant, v. i.

1. To speak in a whining voice, or an affected, sinsong tone.

2. To make whining pretensions to goodness; to talk with an
affectation of religion, philanthropy, etc.; to practice hypocrisy;
as, a canting fanatic.
The rankest rogue that ever canted. Beau. & Fl.

3. To use pretentious language, barbarous jargon, or technical
termes; to talk with an affectation of learning.
The doctor here, When he discqurseth of dissection, Of vena cava and
of vena porta, The meseræum and the mesentericum, What does he else
but cant. B. Jonson
That uncouth affected garb of speech, or canting hanguage, if I may
so call it. Bp. Sanderson.

CANT
Cant, n. Etym: [Prob. from OF. cant, equiv. to L. quantum; cf. F.
encan, fr. L. in quantum, i.e. "for how much"]

Defn: A all for bidders at a public sale; an auction. "To sell their
leases by cant." Swift.

CANT
Cant, v. t.

Defn: to sell by auction, or bid a price at a sale by auction.
[Archaic] Swift.

CAN'T
Can't.

Defn: A colloquial contraction for can not.

CANTAB
Can"tab, n. Etym: [Abbreviated from Cantabrigian.]

Defn: A Cantabrigian. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott.

CANTABILE
Can*ta"bi*le, a. Etym: [It., cantare to sing.] (Mus.)

Defn: In a melodious, flowing style; in a singing style, as opposed
to bravura, recitativo, or parlando.

CANTABILE
Can*ta"bi*le, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A piece or pessage, whether vocal or instrumental, pecuilarly
adapted to singing; -- sometimes called cantilena.

CANTABRIAN
Can*ta"bri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cantabria on the Bay of Biscay in Spain.

CANTABRIGIAN
Can`ta*brig"i*an, n.

Defn: A native or resident of Cambridge; esp. a student or graduate
of the university of Cambridge, England.

CANTALEVER
Can"ta*lev`er, n. Etym: [Can an extermal angle + lever a supported of
the roof timber of a house.] Etym: [Written also cantaliver and
cantilever.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A bracket to support a balcony, a cornice, or the like.

2. (Engin.)

Defn: A projecting beam, truss, or bridge unsupported at the outer
end; one which overhangs. Cantalever bridge, a bridge in which the
principle of the cantalever is applied. It is usually a trussed
bridge, composed of two portions reaching out from opposite banks,
and supported near the middle of their own length on piers which they
overhang, thus forming cantalevers which meet over the space to be
spanned or sustain a third portion, to complete the connection.

CANTALOUPE
Can"ta*loupe, n. Etym: [F. cantaloup, It. cantalupo, so called from
the caste of Cantalupo, in the Marca d'Ancona, in Italy, where they
were first grown in Europe, from seed said to have been imported from
Armenia.]

Defn: A muskmelon of several varieties, having when mature, a
yellowish skin, and flesh of a reddish orange color. [Written also
cantaleup.]

CANTANKEROUS
Can*tan"ker*ous, a.

Defn: Perverse; contentious; ugly; malicious. [Colloq.] --
Can*tan"ker*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Can*tan"ker*ous*ness, n.
The cantankerous old maiden aunt. Theckeray.

CANTAR; CANTARRO
Can"tar, Can*tar"ro, n. Etym: [It. cantaro (in sense 1), Sp. cantaro
(in sense 2).]

1. A weight used in southern Europe and East for heavy articles. It
varies in different localities; thus, at Rome it is nearly 75 pounds,
in Sardinia nearly 94 pounds, in Cairo it is 95 pounds, in Syria
about 503 pounds.

2. A liquid measure in Spain, ranging from two and a half to four
gallons. Simmonds.

CANTATA
Can*ta"ta, n. Etym: [It., fr. cantare to sing, fr. L. cantare intens
of canere to sing.] (Mus.)

Defn: A poem set to music; a musical composition comprising choruses,
solos, interludes, etc., arranged in a somewhat dramatic manner;
originally, a composition for a single noise, consisting of both
recitative and melody.

CANTATION
Can*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. cantatio.]

Defn: A singing. [Obs.] Blount.

CANTATORY
Cant"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Caontaining cant or affectation; whining; singing. [R.]

CANTATRICE
Can`ta*tri"ce, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A female professional singer.

CANTED
Cant"ed, a. Etym: [From 2d Cant.]

1. Having angles; as, a six canted bolt head; a canted window. Canted
column (Arch.), a column polygonal in plan.

2. Inclined at an angle to something else; tipped; sloping.

CANTEEN
Can*teen", n. Etym: [F. cantine bottle case, canteen (cf. Sp. & It.
cantina cellar, bottle case), either contr. fr. It. canovettina, dim.
of canova cellar, or, more likely, fr. OF. cant. corner, It. & Sp.
canto. See 1st Cant.] (Mil.)

1. A vessel used by soldiers for carrying water, liquor, or other
drink. [Written also cantine..]

Note: In the English service the canteen is made of wood and holds
three pints; in the United States it is usually a tin flask.

2. The sulter's shop in a garrison; also, a chest containing culinary
and other vessels for officers.

CANTEL
Can"tel, n.

Defn: See Cantle.

CANTER
Can"ter, n. Etym: [An abbreviation of Caner bury. See Canterbury
gallop, under Canterbury.]

1. A moderate and easy gallop adapted to pleasure riding.

Note: The canter is a thoroughly artificial pace, at first extremely
tiring to the horse, and generally only to be produced in him by the
restraint of a powerful bit, which compels him to throw a great part
of his weight on his haunches . . . There is so great a variety in
the mode adopted by different horses for performing the canter, that
no single description will suffice, nor indeed is it easy . . . to
define any one of them. J. H. Walsh.

2. A rapid or easy passing over.
A rapid canter in the Times over all the topics. Sir J. Stephen.

CANTER
Can"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cantered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cantering.]

Defn: To move in a canter.

CANTER
Can"ter, v. t.

Defn: To cause, as a horse, to go at a canter; to ride (a horse) at a
canter.

CANTER
Cant"er, n.

1. One who cants or whines; a beggar.

2. One who makes hypocritical pretensions to goodness; one who uses
canting language.
The day when he was a canter and a rebel. Macaulay.

CANTERBURY
Can"ter*bur*y, n.

1. A city in England, giving its name various articles. It is the
seat of the Archbishop of Canterbury (primate of all England), and
contains the shrine of Thomas à Becket, to which pilgrimages were
formerly made.

2. A stand with divisions in it for holding music, loose papers, etc.
Canterbury ball (Bot.), a species of Campanula of several varietes,
cultivated for its handsome bell-shaped flowers.
 -- Canterbury gallop, a gentle gallop such as was used by pilgrims
riding, to Canterbury; a canter.
 -- Canterbury table, one of the tales which Chaucer puts into the
mouths of certain pilgrims to Canterbury. Hence, any tale told by
travelers pass away the time.

CANTHARIDAL
Can*thar"*i*dal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cantharides or made of cantharides; as,
cantharidal plaster.

CANTHARIDES
Can*thar"i*des, n. pl.

Defn: See cantharis.

CANTHARIDIN
Can*thar"i*din, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The active principe of the cantharis, or Spanish fly, a
volatile, acrid, bitter solid, crystallizing in four-sided prisms.

CANTHARIS
Can"tha*ris, n.; pl. Cantharides. Etym: [L., a kind of beetle, esp.
the Spanish fly, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beetle (Lytta, or Cantharis, vesicatoria), having an
elongated cylindrical body of a brilliant green color, and a nauseous
odor; the blister fly or blister beetle, of the apothecary; -- also
called Spanish fly. Many other species of Lytta, used for the same
purpose, take the same name. See Blister beetle, under Blister. The
plural form in usually applied to the dried insects used in medicine.

CANT HOOK
Cant" hook`.

Defn: A wooden lever with a movable iron hook. hear the end; -- used
for canting or turning over heavy logs, etc. [U. S.] Bartlett.

CANTHOPLASTY
Can"tho*plas`ty, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of forming a new canthus, when one has been
destroyed by injury or disease.

CANTHUS
Can"thus, n.; pl. Canthi. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The corner where the upper and under eyelids meet on each side
of the eye.

CANTICLE
Can"ti*cle, n.; pl. Canticles. Etym: [L. canticulum a little song,
dim. of canticum song, fr. cantus a singing, fr. coner to sing. See
Chant.]

1. A song; esp. a little song or hymn. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. pl.

Defn: The Song of Songs or Song of Solomon, one of the books of the
Old Testament.

3. A canto or division of a poem [Obs.] Spenser.

4. A psalm, hymn, or passage from the Bible, arranged for chanting in
church service.

CANTICOY
Can"ti*coy, n. Etym: [Of American Indian origin.]

Defn: A social gathering; usually, one for dancing.

CANTILE
Can"tile, v. i.

Defn: Same as Cantle, v. t.

CANTILENA
Can`ti*le"na, n. Etym: [It. & L.] (Mus.)

Defn: See Cantabile.

CANTILEVER
Can"ti*lev`er, n.

Defn: Same as Cantalever.

CANTILLATE
Can"til*late, v. i. Etym: [L. cantillatus, p. p. of cantillare to
sing low, dim. of cantare. See Cantata.]

Defn: To chant; to recite with musical tones. M. Stuart.

CANTILLATION
Can`til*la"tion, n.

Defn: A chanting; recitation or reading with musical modulations.

CANTINE
Can*tine", n.

Defn: See Canteen.

CANTING
Cant"ing, a.

Defn: Speaking in a whining tone of voice; using technical or
religious terms affectedly; affectedly pious; as, a canting rogue; a
canting tone. - Cant"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Cant"ing*ness, n. Canting arms, Canting heraldry (Her.), bearings
in the nature of a rebus alluding to the name of the bearer. Thus,
the Castletons bear three castles, and Pope Adrian IV. (Nicholas
Breakspeare) bore a broken spear.

CANTING
Cant"ing, n.

Defn: The use of cant; hypocrisy.

CANTINIERE
Can`ti*niere", n. Etym: [F., fr. cantine a sutler's shop, canteen.]
(Mil)

Defn: A woman who carries a canteen for soldiers; a vivandière.

CANTION
Can"tion, n. Etym: [L. cantio, from canere to sing.]

Defn: A song or verses. [Obs.] Spenser.

CANTLE
Can"tle, n. Etym: [OF. cantel, chantel, corner, side, piece, F.
chanteau a piece cut from a larger piece, dim. of OF. cant edge,
corner. See 1st Cant.]

1. A corner or edge of anything; a piece; a fragment; a part. "In one
cantle of his law." Milton.
Cuts me from the best of all my land A huge half moon, a monstrous
cantle out. Shak.

2. The upwardly projecting rear part of saddle, opposite to the
pommel. [Written also cante.]

CANTLE
Can"tle, v. t.

Defn: To cut in pieces; to cut out from. [Obs.] [Written also
cantile.]

CANTLET
Cant"let, n. Etym: [Dim. of cantle.]

Defn: A piece; a fragment; a corner. Dryden.

CANTO
Can"to, n.; pl. Cantos. Etym: [It. canto, fr. L. cantus singing,
song. See Chant.]

1. One of the chief divisions of a long poem; a book.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The highest vocal part; the air or melody in choral music;
anciently the tenor, now the soprano. Canto fermo ( Etym: [It.]
(Mus.), the plain ecclesiastical chant in cathedral service; the
plain song.

CANTON
Can"ton, n.

Defn: A song or canto [Obs.]
Write loyal cantons of contemned love. Shak.

CANTON
Can"ton, n. Etym: [F. canton, augm. of OF. cant edge, corner. See 1st
Cant.]

1. A small portion; a division; a compartment.
That little canton of land called the "English pale" Davies.
There is another piece of Holbein's, . . . in which, in six several
cantons, the several parts of our Savior's passion are represented.
Bp. Burnet.

2. A small community or clan.

3. A small territorial district; esp. one of the twenty-two
independent states which form the Swiss federal republic; in France,
a subdivision of an arrondissement. See Arrondissement.

4. (Her.)

Defn: A division of a shield occupying one third part of the chief,
usually on the dexter side, formed by a perpendicular line from the
top of the shield, meeting a horizontal line from the side.
The king gave us the arms of England to be borne in a canton in our
arms. Evelyn.

CANTON
Can"ton, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cantoned ; p. pr. & vb. n. Cantoning.]
Etym: [Cf. F.cantonner.]

1. To divide into small parts or districts; to mark off or separate,
as a distinct portion or division.
They canton out themselves a little Goshen in the intellectual world.
Locke.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: To allot separate quarters to, as to different parts or
divisions of an army or body of troops.

CANTONAL
Can"ton*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a canton or cantons; of the nature of a
canton.

CANTON CRAPE
Can"ton crape".

Defn: A soft, white or colored silk fabric, of a gauzy texture and
wavy appearance, used for ladies' scarfs, shawls, bonnet trimmings,
etc.; -- called also Oriental crape. De Colange.

CANTONED
Can"toned, a.

1. (Her.)

Defn: Having a charge in each of the four corners; -- said of a cross
on a shield, and also of the shield itself.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Having the angles marked by, or decorated with, projecting
moldings or small columns; as, a cantoned pier or pilaster.

CANTON FLANNEL
Can"ton flan"nel.

Defn: See Cotton flannel.

CANTONIZE
Can"ton*ize, v. i.

Defn: To divide into cantons or small districts.

CANTONMENT
Can"ton*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cantonnement.]

Defn: A town or village, or part of a town or village, assigned to a
body of troops for quarters; temporary shelter or place of rest for
an army; quarters.

Note: When troops are sheltered in huts or quartered in the houses of
the people during any suspension of hostilities, they are said to be
in cantonment, or to be cantoned. In India, permanent military
stations, or military towns, are termed cantonments.

CANTOON
Can*toon", n.

Defn: A cotton stuff showing a fine cord on one side and a satiny
surface on the other.

CANTOR
Can"tor, n. Etym: [L., a singer, fr. caner to sing.]

Defn: A singer; esp. the leader of a church choir; a precentor.
The cantor of the church intones the Te Deum. Milman.

CANTORAL
Can"tor*al, a.

Defn: Of or belonging to a cantor. Cantoral staff, the official staff
or baton of a cantor or precentor, with which time is marked for the
singers.

CANTORIS
Can*to"ris, a. Etym: [L., lit., of the cantor, gen. of cantor.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cantor; as, the cantoris side of a choir;
a cantoris stall. Shipley.

CANTRAP; CANTRIP
Can"trap, Can"trip, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. gandar, ODan. & OSw. gan,
witchcraft, and E. trap a snare, tramp.]

Defn: A charm; an incantation; a shell; a trick; adroit mischief.
[Written also cantraip.] [Scot.]

CANTRED; CANTREF
Can"tred, Can"tref, n. Etym: [W. cantref; cant hundred + tref
dwelling place, village.]

Defn: A district comprising a hundred villages, as in Wales. [Written
also kantry.]

CANTY
Can"ty, a.

Defn: Cheerful; sprightly; lively; merry. "The canty dame."
Wordsworth [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
Contented with little, and canty with mair. Burns.

CANUCK
Ca*nuck", n.

1. A Canadian. [Slang]

2. A small or medium-sized hardy horse, common in Canada. [Colloq.]

CANULA; CANULAR; CANULATED
Can"u*la, n., Can"u*lar, a., Can"u*la`ted, a.

Defn: See Cannula, Cannular, and Cannulated.

CANVAS
Can"vas, n. Etym: [OE. canvas, canevas, F. canevas, LL. canabacius
hempen cloth, canvas, L. cannabis hemp, fr. G. Hemp.]

1. A strong cloth made of hemp, flax, or cotton; -- used for tents,
sails, etc.
By glimmering lanes and walls of canvas led. Tennyson.

2.
(a) A coarse cloth so woven as to form regular meshes for working
with the needle, as in tapestry, or worsted work.
(b) A piece of strong cloth of which the surface has been prepared to
receive painting, commonly painting in oil.
History . . . does not bring out clearly upon the canvas the details
which were familiar. J. H. Newman.

3. Something for which canvas is used: (a) A sail, or a collection of
sails. (b) A tent, or a collection of tents. (c) A painting, or a
picture on canvas.
To suit his canvas to the roughness of the see. Goldsmith.
Light, rich as that which glows on the canvas of Claude. Macaulay.

4. A rough draft or model of a song, air, or other literary or
musical composition; esp. one to show a poet the measure of the
verses he is to make. Grabb.

CANVAS
Can"vas, a.

Defn: Made of, pertaining to, or resembling, canvas or coarse cloth;
as, a canvas tent.

CANVASBACK
Can"vas*back`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A Species of duck (Aythya vallisneria), esteemed for the
delicacy of its flesh. It visits the United States in autumn;
particularly Chesapeake Bay and adjoining waters; -- so named from
the markings of the plumage on its back.

CANVASS
Can"vass, v. t. [imp. & p. p. canvassed; p. pr. & vb. n. Canvassing.]
Etym: [OF. Canabasser to examine curiously, to search or sift out;
properly, to sift through canvas. See Canvas, n.]

1. To sift; to strain; to examine thoroughly; to scrutinize; as, to
canvass the votes cast at an election; to canvass a district with
reference to its probable vote.
I have made careful search on all hands, and canvassed the matter
with all possible diligence. Woodward.

2. To examine by discussion; to debate.
An opinion that we are likely soon to canvass. Sir W. Hamilton.

3. To go trough, with personal solicitation or public addresses; as,
to canvass a district for votes; to canvass a city for subscriptions.

CANVASS
Can"vass, v. i.

Defn: To search thoroughly; to engage in solicitation by traversing a
district; as, to canvass for subscriptions or for votes; to canvass
for a book, a publisher, or in behalf of a charity; -- commonly
followed by for.

CANVASS
Can"vass, n.

1. Close inspection; careful review for verification; as, a canvass
of votes. Bacon.

2. Examination in the way of discussion or debate.

3. Search; exploration; solicitation; systematic effort to obtain
votes, subscribers, etc.
No previous canvass was made for me. Burke.

CANVASSER
Can"vass*er, n.

Defn: One who canvasses.

CANY
Can"y, a. Etym: [From Cane.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to cane or canes; abounding with canes.
Milton.

CANYON
Can"yon, n.

Defn: The English form of the Spanish word Cañon.

CANZONE
Can*zo"ne, n. Etym: [It., a song, fr. L. cantio, fr. canere to sing.
Cf. Chanson, Chant.] (Mus.)
(a) A song or air for one or more voices, of Provençal origin,
resembling, though not strictly, the madrigal.
(b) An instrumental piece in the madrigal style.

CANZONET
Can`zo*net", n. Etym: [It. canzonetta, dim. of canzone.] (Mus.)

Defn: A short song, in one or more parts.

CAONCITO
Cañ`on*ci"to, n. [Amer. Sp. dim. See Cañon.] [Southwestern U. S.]

1. A small cañon.

2.  A narrow passage or lane through chaparral or a forest.

CAOUTCHIN
Caout"chin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An inflammable, volatile, oily, liquid hydrocarbon, obtained by
the destructive distillation of caoutchouc.

CAOUTCHOUC
Caout"chouc, n. Etym: [F. caoutchouc, from the South American name.]

Defn: A tenacious, elastic, gummy substance obtained from the milky
sap of several plants of tropical South America (esp. the
euphorbiaceous tree Siphonia elastica or Hevea caoutchouc), Asia, and
Africa. Being impermeable to liquids and gases, and not readly
affected by exposure to air, acids, and alkalies, it is used,
especially when vulcanized, for many purposes in the arts and in
manufactures. Also called India rubber (because it was first brought
from India, and was formerly used chiefly for erasing pencil marks)
and gum elastic. See Vulcanization. Mineral caoutchouc. See under
Mineral.

CAOUTCHOUCIN
Caout"chou*cin, n.

Defn: See Caoutchin.

CAP
Cap, n. Etym: [OE. cappe, AS. cæppe, cap, cape, hood, fr. LL, cappa,
capa; perhaps of Iberian origin, as Isidorus of Seville mentions it
first: "Capa, quia quasi totum capiat hominem; it. capitis
ornamentum." See 3d Cape, and cf. 1st Cope.]

1. A covering for the head; esp.
(a) One usually with a visor but without a brim, for men and boys;
(b) One of lace, muslin, etc., for women, or infants;
(c) One used as the mark or ensign of some rank, office, or dignity,
as that of a cardinal.

2. The top, or uppermost part; the chief.
Thou art the cap of all the fools alive. Shak.

3. A respectful uncovering of the head.
He that will give a cap and make a leg in thanks. Fuller.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The whole top of the head of a bird from the base of the bill
to the nape of the neck.

5. Anything resembling a cap in form, position, or use; as:
(a) (Arch.) The uppermost of any assemblage of parts; as, the cap of
column, door, etc.; a capital, coping, cornice, lintel, or plate.
(b) Something covering the top or end of a thing for protection or
ornament.
(c) (Naut.) A collar of iron or wood used in joining spars, as the
mast and the topmast, the bowsprit and the jib boom; also, a covering
of tarred canvas at the end of a rope.
(d) A percussion cap. See under Percussion.
(e) (Mech.) The removable cover of a journal box.
(f) (Geom.) A portion of a spherical or other convex surface.

6. A large size of writing paper; as, flat cap; foolscap; legal cap.
Cap of a cannon, a piece of lead laid over the vent to keep the
priming dry; -- now called an apron.
 -- Cap in hand, obsequiously; submissively.
 -- Cap of liberty. See Liberty cap, under Liberty.
 -- Cap of maintenance, a cap of state carried before the kings of
England at the coronation. It is also carried before the mayors of
some cities.
 -- Cap money, money collected in a cap for the huntsman at the death
of the fox.
 -- Cap paper. (a) A kind of writing paper including flat cap,
foolsap, and legal cap. (b) A coarse wrapping paper used for making
caps to hold commodities. Cap rock (Mining), The layer of rock next
overlying ore, generally of barren vein material.
 -- Flat cap, cap See Foolscap.
 -- Forage cap, the cloth undress head covering of an officer of
soldier.
 -- Legal cap, a kind of folio writing paper, made for the use of
lawyers, in long narrow sheets which have the fold at the top or
"narrow edge." -- To set one's cap, to make a fool of one. (Obs.)
Chaucer.
 -- To set one's cap for, to try to win the favor of a man with a
view to marriage. [Colloq.]

CAP
Cap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Capped (; p. pr. & vb. n. Capping.]

1. To cover with a cap, or as with a cap; to provide with a cap or
cover; to cover the top or end of; to place a cap upon the proper
part of; as, to cap a post; to cap a gun.
The bones next the joint are capped with a smooth cartilaginous
substance. Derham.

2. To deprive of cap. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. To complete; to crown; to bring to the highest point or
consummation; as, to cap the climax of absurdity.

4. To salute by removing the cap. [Slang. Eng.]
Tom . . . capped the proctor with the profoundest of bows. Thackeray.

5. To match; to mate in contest; to furnish a complement to; as, to
cap text; to cap proverbs. Shak.
Now I have him under girdle I'll cap verses with him to the end of
the chapter. Dryden.

Note: In capping verses, when one quotes a verse another must cap it
by quoting one beginning with the last letter of the first letter, or
with the first letter of the last word, or ending with a rhyming
word, or by applying any other arbitrary rule may be agreed upon.

CAP
Cap, v. i.

Defn: To uncover the head respectfully. Shak.

CAPABILITY
Ca`pa*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Capabilities.

1. The quality of being capable; capacity; capableness; esp.
intellectual power or ability.
A capability to take a thousand views of a subject. H. Taylor.

2. Capacity of being used or improved.

CAPABLE
Ca"pa*ble, a. Etym: [F. capable, LL. capabilis capacious, capable,
fr. L. caper to take, contain. See Heave.]

1. Possessing ability, qualification, or susceptibility; having
capacity; of sufficient size or strength; as, a room capable of
holding a large number; a castle capable of resisting a long assault.
Concious of jou and capable of pain. Prior.

2. Possessing adequate power; qualified; able; fully competent; as, a
capable instructor; a capable judge; a mind capable of nice
investigations.
More capable to discourse of battles than to give them. Motley.

3. Possessing legal power or capacity; as, a man capable of making a
contract, or a will.

4. Capacious; large; comprehensive. [Obs.] Shak.

Note: Capable is usually followed by of, sometimes by an infinitive.

Syn.
 -- Able; competent; qualified; fitted; efficient; effective;
skillful.

CAPABLENESS
Ca"pa*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being capable; capability;
adequateness; competency.

CAPACIFY
Ca*pac"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Capacified.] Etym: [L. capax, -acis,
capacious + -fy.]

Defn: To quality. [R.]
The benefice he is capacified and designed for. Barrow.

CAPACIOUS
Ca*pa"cious, a. Etym: [L. capaz, -acis, fr. capere to take. See
Heave.]

1. Having capacity; able to contain much; large; roomy; spacious;
extended; broad; as, a capacious vessel, room, bay, or harbor.
In the capacious recesses of his mind. Bancroft.

2. Able or qualified to make large views of things, as in obtaining
knowledge or forming designs; comprehensive; liberal. "A capacious
mind." Watts.

CAPACIOUSLY
Ca*pa"cious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a capacious manner or degree; comprehensively.

CAPACIOUSNESS
Ca*pa"cious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being capacious, as of a vessel, a reservoir a
bay, the mind, etc.

CAPACITATE
Ca*pac"i*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Capacitated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Capacitating.]

Defn: To render capable; to enable; to qualify.
By thih instruction we may be capaciated to observe those errors.
Dryden.

CAPACITY
Ca*pac"i*ty, n.; pl. Capacities Etym: [L. capacitus, fr. capax,
capacis; fr. F. capacité. See Capacious.]

1. The power of receiving or containing; extent of room or space;
passive power; -- used in reference to physical things.
Had our great palace the capacity To camp this host, we all would sup
together. Shak.
The capacity of the exhausted cylinder. Boyle.

2. The power of receiving and holding ideas, knowledge, etc.; the
comprehensiveness of the mind; the receptive faculty; capability of
undestanding or feeling.
Capacity is now properly limited to these [the mere passive
operations of the mind]; its primary signification, which is
literally room for, as well as its employment, favars this; although
it can not be dented that there are examples of its usage in an
active sense. Sir W. Hamilton.

3. Ability; power pertaining to, or resulting from, the possession of
strength, wealth, or talent; possibility of being or of doing.
The capacity of blessing the people. Alex. Hamilton.
A cause with such capacities endued. Blackmore.

4. Outward condition or circumstances; occupation; profession;
character; position; as, to work in the capacity of a mason or a
carpenter.

5. (Law)

Defn: Legal or noral qualification, as of age, residence, character,
etc., necessary for certain purposes, as for holding office, for
marrying, for making contracts, will, etc.; legal power or right;
competency. Capacity for heat, the power of absorbing heat.
Substances differ in the amount of heat requisite to raise them a
given number of thermometric degrees, and this difference is the
measure of, or depends upon, whzt is called their capacity for heat.
See Specific heat, under Heat.

Syn.
 -- Ability; faculty; talent; capability; skill; efficiency;
cleverness. See Ability.

CAPAPE
Cap`*a*pe", adv.

Defn: See Cap-a-pie. Shak.

CAPAPIE
Cap`*a*pie", adv. Etym: [OF. (cap-a-pie, from head to foot, now de
pied en cap from foot to head; L. per foot + caput head.]

Defn: From head to foot; at all points. "He was armed cap-a-pie."
Prescott.

CAPARISON
Ca*par"i*son, n. Etym: [F. capara, fr. Sp. caparazon a cover for a
saddle, coach, etc.; capa cloak, cover (fr. LL. capa, cf. LL. caparo
also fr. capa) + the term. azon. See Cap.]

1. An ornamental covering or housing for a horse; the harness or
trappings of a horse, taken collectively, esp. when decorative.
Their horses clothed with rich caparison. Drylen.

2. Gay or rich clothing.
My heart groans beneath the gay caparison. Smollett.

CAPARISON
Ca*par"i*son, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Caparisoned p. pr. & vb. n.
Caparisoning.] Etym: [Cf. F caparaçonner.]

1. To cover with housings, as a horse; to harness or fit out with
decorative trappings, as a horse.
The steeds, caparisoned with purple, stand. Dryden.

2. To aborn with rich dress; to dress.
I am caparisoned like a man. Shak.

CAPARRO
Ca*par"ro, n. Etym: [Native Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large South American monkey (Lagothrix Humboldtii), with
prehensile tail.

CAPCASE
Cap"case`, n.

Defn: A small traveling case or bandbox; formerly, a chest.
A capcase for your linen and your plate. Beau. & Fl.

CAPE
Cape, n. Etym: [F. cap, fr. It. capo head, cape, fr. L. caput heat,
end, point. See Chief.]

Defn: A piece or point of land, extending beyind the adjacent coast
into the sea or a lake; a promonotory; a headland. Cape buffalo
(Zoöl.) a large and powerful buffalo of South Africa (Bubalus
Caffer). It is said to be the most dangerous wild beast of Africa.
See Buffalo, 2.
 -- Cape jasmine, Cape jassamine. See Jasmine.
 -- Cape pigeon (Zoöl.), a petrel (Daptium Capense) common off the
Cape of Good Hope. It is about the size of a pigeon.
 -- Cape wine, wine made in South Africa [Eng.] -- The Cape, the Cape
of Good Hope, in the general sense of southern extremity of Africa.
Also used of Cape Horn, and, in New England, of Cape Cod.

CAPE
Cape, v. i. (Naut.)

Defn: To head or point; to keep a course; as, the ship capes
southwest by south.

CAPE
Cape, n. Etym: [OE. Cape, fr. F. cape; cf. LL. cappa. See Cap, and
cf. 1st Cope, Chape.]

Defn: A sleeveless garment or part of a garment, hanging from the
neck over the back, arms, and shoulders, but not reaching below the
hips. See Cloak.

CAPE
Cape, v. i. Etym: [See Gape.]

Defn: To gape. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CAPEL; CAPLE
Ca"pel, Ca"ple, n. Etym: [Icel. kapall; cf. L. caballus.]

Defn: A horse; a nag. [Obs.] Chaucer. Holland.

CAPEL
Ca"pel, n. (Mining)

Defn: A composite stone (quartz, schorl, and hornlende) in the walls
of tin and copper lodes.

CAPELAN
Cap"e*lan, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Capelin.

CAPELIN
Cape"lin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. capelan, caplan.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small marine fish (Mallotus villosus) of the family
Salmonidæ, very abundant on the coasts of Greenland, Iceland,
Newfoundland, and Alaska. It is used as a bait for the cod. [Written
also capelan and caplin.]

Note: This fish, which is like a smelt, is called by the Spaniards
anchova, and by the Portuguese capelina. Fisheries of U. S. (1884).

CAPELINE
Ca"pe*line`, n. [F., fr. LL. capella. See Chapel.] (Med.)

Defn: A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stump
of an amputated limb.

CAPELLA
Ca*pel"la, n. Etym: [L., a little goet, dim. of caper a goat.]
(Asrton.)

Defn: A brilliant star in the constellation Auriga.

CAPELLANE
Cap"el*lane, n. Etym: [See Chaplain.]

Defn: The curate of a chapel; a chaplain. [Obs.] Fuller.

CAPELLE
Ca*pel"le, n. Etym: [G.] (Mus.)

Defn: The private orchestra or band of a prince or of a church.

CAPELLET
Cap"el*let, n. Etym: [F. capelet.] (Far.)

Defn: A swelling, like a wen, on the point of the elbow (or the heel
of the hock) of a horse, caused probably by bruises in lying dowm.

CAPELLMEISTER
Ca*pell"meis`ter, n. Etym: [G., fr. capelle chapel, private band of a
prince + meister a master.]

Defn: The musical director in royal or ducal chapel; a choirmaster.
[Written also kepellmeister.]

CAPER
Ca"per, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Capered p. pr. & vb. n. capering.] Etym:
[From older capreoll to caper, cf. F. se cabrer to prance; all
ultimately fr. L. caper, capra, goat. See Capriole.]

Defn: To leap or jump about in a sprightly manner; to cut capers; to
skip; to spring; to prance; to dance.
He capers, he dances, he has eyes of youth. Shak.

CAPER
Ca"per, n.

Defn: A frolicsome leap or spring; a skip; a jump, as in mirth or
dancing; a prank. To cut a caper, to frolic; to make a sportive
spring; to play a prank. Shak.

CAPER
Ca"per, n. Etym: [D. kaper.]

Defn: A vessel formerly used by the Dutch, privateer. Wright.

CAPER
Ca"per, n. Etym: [F. câpre, fr. L. capparis, Gr. al-kabar.]

1. The pungent grayish green flower bud of the European and Oriental
caper (Capparis spinosa), much used for pickles.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Capparis; -- called also caper bush, caper
tree.

Note: The Capparis spinosa is a low prickly shrub of the
Mediterranean coasts, with trailing branches and brilliant flowers; -
- cultivated in the south of Europe for its buds. The C. sodada is an
almost leafless spiny shrub of central Africa (Soudan), Arabia, and
southern India, with edible berries. Bean caper. See Bran caper, in
the Vocabulary.
 -- Caper sauce, a kind of sauce or catchup made of capers.

CAPERBERRY
Ca"per*ber`ry, n.

1. The small olive-shaped berry of the European and Oriental caper,
said to be used in pickles and as a condiment.

2. The currantlike fruit of the African and Arabian caper (Capparis
sodado).

CAPER BUSH; CAPER TREE
Ca"per bush`, Ca"per tree`.

Defn: See Capper, a plant, 2.

CAPERCAILZIE; CAPERCALLY
Ca"per*cail`zie, or Ca"per*cal`ly, n. Etym: [Gael, capulcoile.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of grouse (Tetrao uragallus) of large size and fine
flavor, found in northern Europe and formerly in Scotland; -- called
also cock of the woods. [Written also capercaillie, capercaili.]

CAPERCLAW
Ca"per*claw`, v. t.

Defn: To treat with cruel playfulness, as a cat treats a mouse; to
abuse. [Obs.] Birch.

CAPERER
Ca"per*er, n.

Defn: One who capers, leaps, and skips about, or dances.
The nimble capperer on the cord. Dryden.

CAPFUL
Cap"ful, n.; pl. Capfuls (.

Defn: As much as will fill a cap. A capful of wind (Naut.), a light
puff of wind.

CAPIAS
Ca"pi*as, n. Etym: [L. thou mayst take.] (Low)

Defn: A writ or process commanding the officer to take the body of
the person named in it, that is, to arrest him; -- also called writ
of capias.

Note: One principal kind of capias is a writ by which actions at law
are frequently commenced; another is a writ of execution issued after
judgment to satisfy damages recovered; a capias in criminal law is
the process to take a person charged on an indictment, when he is not
in custody. Burrill. Wharton.

CAPIBARA
Ca`pi*ba"ra, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Capybara.

CAPILLACEOUS
Cap`il*la"ceous, a. Etym: [L. capillaceus hairy, fr. capillus hair.]

Defn: Having long filaments; resembling a hair; slender. See
Capillary.

CAPILLAIRE
Cap`il*laire", n. Etym: [F. capillaire maiden-hair; sirop de
capillaire capillaire; fr. L. herba capillaris the maidenhair.]

1. A sirup prepared from the maiden-hair, formerly supposed to have
medicinal properties.

2. Any simple sirup flavored with orange flowers.

CAPILLAMENT
Ca*pil"la*ment, n. Etym: [L. capillamentum, fr. capillus hair: cf. F.
capillament.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A filament. [R.]

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Any villous or hairy covering; a fine fiber or filament, as of
the nerves.

CAPILLARINESS
Cap"il*la*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being capillary.

CAPILLARITY
Cap`il*lar"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. capillarité.]

1. The quality or condition of being capillary.

2. (Physics)

Defn: The peculiar action by which the surface of a liquid, where it
is in contact with a solid (as in a capillary tube), is elevated or
depressed; capillary attraction.

Note: Capillarity depends upon the relative attaction of the
modecules of the liquid for each other and for those of the solid,
and is especially observable in capillary tubes, where it determines
the ascent or descent of the liquid above or below the level of the
liquid which the tube is dipped; -- hence the name.

CAPILLARY
Cap"il*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. capillaris, fr. capillus hair. Cf.
Capillaire.]

1. Resembling a hair; fine; minute; very slender; having minute tubes
or interspaces; having very small bore; as, the capillary vessels of
animals and plants.

2. Pertaining to capillary tubes or vessels; as, capillary action.
Capillary attraction, Capillary repulsion, the apparent attraction or
repulsion between a soild and liquid caused bycapillarity. See
Capillarity, and Attraction.
 -- Capillarity tubes. See the Note under Capillarity.

CAPILLARY
Cap"il*la*ry, n.; pl., Capillaries (.

1. A tube or vessel, extremely fine or minute.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A minute, thin-walled vessel; particularly one of the smallest
blood vessels connecting arteries and veins, but used also for the
smallest lymphatic and biliary vessels.

CAPILLATION
Cap`il*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. capillatie the hair.]

Defn: A capillary blood vessel. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CAPILLATURE
Ca*pil"la*ture, n. Etym: [L. capillatura.]

Defn: A bush of hair; frizzing of the hair. Clarke.

CAPILLIFORM
Ca*pil"li*form, a. Etym: [L. capillus hair + -form.]

Defn: In the shape or form of, a hair, or of hairs.

CAPILLOSE
Cap"il*lose`, a. Etym: [L. capillosus.]

Defn: Having much hair; hairy. [R.]

CAPISTRATE
Ca*pis"trate, a. Etym: [L. capistratus, p. p. of capistrare halter.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Hooded; cowled.

CAPITAL
Cap"i*tal, a. Etym: [F. capital, L. capitalis capital (in senses 1 &
2), fr. caput head. See Chief, and cf. Capital, n.]

1. Of or pertaining to the head. [Obs.]
Needs must the Serpent now his capital bruise Expect with mortal
pain. Milton.

2. Having reference to, or involving, the forfeiture of the head or
life; affecting life; punishable with death; as, capital trials;
capital punishment.
Many crimes that are capital among us. Swift.
To put to death a capital offender. Milton.

3. First in importance; chief; principal.
A capital article in religion Atterbury.
Whatever is capital and essential in Christianity. I. Taylor.

4. Chief, in a political sense, as being the seat of the general
government of a state or nation; as, Washington and Paris are capital
cities.

5. Of first rate quality; excellent; as, a capital speech or song.
[Colloq.]

Capital letter Etym: [F, lettre capitale] (Print.), a leading or
heading letter, used at the beginning of a sentence and as the first
letter of certain words, distinguished, for the most part, both by
different form and larger size, from the small (lower-case) letters,
which form the greater part of common print or writing.
 -- Small capital letters have the form of capital letters and height
of the body of the lower-case letters.
 -- Capital stock, money, property, or stock invested in any
business, or the enterprise of any corporation or institution.
Abbott.

Syn.
 -- Chief; leading; controlling; prominent.

CAPITAL
Cap"i*tal, n. Etym: [Cf. L. capitellum and Capitulum, a small head,
the head, top, or capital of a column, dim. of caput head; F.
chapiteau, OF. capitel. See Chief, and cf. Cattle, Chattel, Chapiter,
Chapter.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: The head or uppermost member of a column, pilaster, etc. It
consists generally of three parts, abacus, bell (or vase), and
necking. See these terms, and Column.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. capilate, fem., sc. ville.] (Geog.)

Defn: The seat of government; the chief city or town in a country; a
metropolis. "A busy and splendid capital" Macauly.

3. Etym: [Cf. F. capital.]

Defn: Money, property, or stock employed in trade, manufactures,
etc.; the sum invested or lent, as distinguished from the income or
interest. See Capital stock, under Capital, a.

4. (Polit. Econ.)

Defn: That portion of the produce of industry, which may be directly
employed either to support human beings or to assist in production.
M'Culloch.

Note: When wealth is used to assist production it is called capital.
The capital of a civilized community includes fixed capital (i.e.
buildings, machines, and roads used in the course of production and
exchange) amd circulating capital (i.e., food, fuel, money, etc.,
spent in the course of production and exchange). T. Raleing.

5. Anything which can be used to increase one's power or influence.
He tried to make capital out of his rival's discomfiture. London
Times.

6. (Fort.)

Defn: An imaginary line dividing a bastion, ravelin, or other work,
into two equal parts.

7. A chapter, or section, of a book. [Obs.]
Holy St. Bernard hath said in the 59th capital. Sir W. Scott.

8. (Print.)

Defn: See Capital letter, under Capital, a. Active capital. See under
Active, -- Small capital (Print.), a small capital letter. See under
Capital, a.
 -- To live on one's capital, to consume one's capital without
producing or accumulating anything to replace it.

CAPITALIST
Cap"i*tal*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. capitaliste.]

Defn: One who has capital; one who has money for investment, or money
invested; esp. a person of large property, which is employed in
business.
The expenditure of the capitalist. Burke.

CAPITALIZATION
Cap"i*tal*i*za`tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of capitalizing.

CAPITALIZE
Cap"i*tal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Capitalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Capitalizing.]

1. To convert into capital, or to use as capital.

2. To compute, appraise, or assess the capital value of (a patent
right, an annuity, etc.)

3. To print in capital letters, or with an initial capital.

CAPITALLY
Cap*i*tal*ly, adv.

1. In a way involving the forfeiture of the head or life; as, to
punish capitally.

2. In a capital manner; excellently. [Colloq.]

CAPITALNESS
Cap"i*tal*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being capital; preeminence. [R.]

CAPITAN PASHA; CAPITAN PACHA
Ca`pi*tan` Pa*sha` or Pa*cha`. Etym: [See capitan.]

Defn: The chief admiral of the Turkish fleet.

CAPITATE
Cap"i*tate, a Etym: [L. capitatus fr. caput head.]

1. Headlike in form; also, having the distal end enlarged and
rounded, as the stigmas of certain flowers.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the flowers gathered into a head.

CAPITATIM
Cap`i*ta"tim, a. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Of so much per head; as, a capitatim tax; a capitatim grant.

CAPITATION
Cap`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. capitatio a poll tax, fr. caput head; cf.
F. capitation.]

1. A numbering of heads or individuals. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

2. A tax upon each head or person, without reference to property; a
poll tax.

CAPITE
Cap"i*te, n. Etym: [L., abl. of caput head.]

Defn: See under Tenant.

CAPITELLATE
Cap`i*tel"late, a. Etym: [L. capitellum, dim. of caput head.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having a very small knoblike termination, or collected into
minute capitula.

CAPITIBRANCHIATA
Cap`i*ti*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. caput, capitis,
head + -branchiae gills.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of annelids in which the gills arise from or near
the head. See Tubicola.

CAPITOL
Cap"i*tol, Etym: [L. capitolium, fr. caput head: cf. F. capitole. See
Chief.]

1. The temple of Jupiter, at Rome, on the Mona Capitolinus, where the
Senate met.
Comes Cæsar to the Capitol to-morrow Shak.

2. The edifice at Washington occupied by the Congress of the United
States; also, the building in which the legislature of State holds
its sessions; a statehouse.

CAPITOLIAN; CAPITOLINE
Cap`i*to"li*an, Cap"i*to*line, a. Etym: [L. capitolinus: cf. F.
capitolin.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Capitol in Rome. "Capitolian Jove."
Macaulay. Capitoline games (Antiq.), annual games instituted at Rome
by Camillus, in honor of Jupter Capitolinus, on account of the
preservation of the Capitol from the Gauls; when reinstituted by
Domitian, arter a period of neglect, they were held every fifth year.

CAPITULA
Ca*pit"u*la, n. pl.

Defn: See Capitulum.

CAPITULAR
Ca*pit"u*lar, n. Etym: [LL. capitulare, capitularium, fr. L.
capitulum a small head, a chapter, dim. of capit head, chapter.]

1. An act passed in a chapter.

2. A member of a chapter.
The chapter itself, and all its members or capitulars. Ayliffe.

3. The head or prominent part.

CAPITULAR
Ca*pit"u*lar, a.

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chapter; capitulary.
From the pope to the member of the capitular body. Milman.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing in, or pertaining to, a capitulum.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to a capitulum; as, the capitular process of a
vetebra, the process which articulates with the capitulum of a rib.

CAPITULARLY
Ca*pit"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner or form of an ecclesiastical chapter. Sterne.

CAPITULARY
Ca*pit"u*la*ry, n.; pl. Capitularies. Etym: [See Capitular.]

1. A capitular.

2. The body of laws or statutes of a chapter, or of an ecclesiastical
council.

3. A collection of laws or statutes, civil and ecclesiastical, esp.
of the Frankish kings, in chapters or sections.
Several of Charlemagne's capitularies. Hallam.

CAPITULARY
Ca*pit"u*la*ry, a.

Defn: Relating to the chapter of a cathedral; capitular. "Capitulary
acts." Warton.

CAPITULATE
Ca*pit"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Capitulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Capitulating.] Etym: [LL. capitulatus, p. p. of capitulare to
capitulate: cf. F. capituler. See Capitular, n.]

1. To settle or draw up the heads or terms of an agreement, as in
chapters or articles; to agree. [Obs.]
There capitulates with the king . . . to take to wife his daughter
Mary. Heylin.
There is no reason why the reducing of any agreement to certain heads
or capitula should not be called to capitulate. Trench.

2. To surrender on terms agreed upon (usually, drawn up under several
heads); as, an army or a garrison capitulates.
The Irish, after holding out a week, capitulated. Macaulay.

CAPITULATE
Ca*pit"u*late, v. t.

Defn: To surrender or transfer, as an army or a fortress, on certain
conditions. [R.]

CAPITULATION
Ca*pit`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. capitulation, LL. capitulatio.]

1. A reducing to heads or articles; a formal agreement.
With special capitulation that neither the Scots nor the French shall
refortify. Bp. Burnet.

2. The act of capitulating or surrendering to an emeny upon
stipulated terms.

3. The instrument containing the terms of an agreement or surrender.

CAPITULATOR
Ca*pit"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [LL.]

Defn: One who capitulates.

CAPITULE
Cap"i*tule, n. Etym: [L. capitulum small head, chapter.]

Defn: A summary. [Obs.]

CAPITULUM
Ca*pit"u*lum, n.; pl. Capitula (. Etym: [L., a small head.]

1. A thick head of flowers on a very short axis, as a clover top, or
a dandelion; a composite flower. A capitulum may be either globular
or flat. Gray.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A knobike protuberance of any part, esp. at the end of a bone
or cartilage.

Note: [See Illust. of Artiodactyla.]

CAPIVI
Ca*pi"vi, n. Etym: [Cf. Copaiba.]

Defn: A balsam of the Spanish West Indies. See Copaiba.

CAPLE
Ca"ple, n.

Defn: See Capel.

CAPLIN
Cap"lin, n.

Defn: See Capelin.

CAPLIN; CAPLING
Cap"lin, Cap"ling, n.

Defn: The cap or coupling of a flail, through which the thongs pass
which connect the handle and swingel. Wright.

CAPNOMANCY
Cap"no*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. mancy: cf. F. capnomancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of the ascent or motion of smoke.

CAPNOMOR
Cap"no*mor, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A limpid, colorless oil with a peculiar odor, obtained from
beech tar. Watts.

CAPOC
Ca*poc", n. Etym: [Malay kapoq.]

Defn: A sort of cotton so short and fine thet it can not be spun,
used in the East Indies to line palanquins, to make mattresses, etc.

CAPOCH
Ca*poch", n.; pl. Capoches. Etym: [Cf. Sp. capucho, It. cappucio, F.
Capuce, capuchon, LL. caputium, fr. capa cloak. See Cap.]

Defn: A hood; especialy, the hood attached to the gown of a monk.

CAPOCH
Ca*poch", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Capoched.]

Defn: To cover with, or as with, a hood; hence, to hoodwink or blind.
Hudibras.

CAPON
Ca"pon, n. Etym: [OE. capon, chapoun, AS. cap (cf. F. chapon), L.
capo, fr. Gr. skopiti to casrate. CF. Comma.]

Defn: A castrated cock, esp. when fattened; a male chicken gelded to
improve his flesh for the table. Shak.
The merry thought of a capon. W. Irving.

CAPON
Ca"pon, v. t.

Defn: To castrate; to make a capon of.

CAPONET
Ca"pon*et, n.

Defn: A young capon. [R.] Chapman.

CAPONIERE
Cap`o*niere", n. Etym: [F. caponnière, fr. Sp. caponera, orig., a
cage for fattening capons, hence, a place of refuge; cf. It.
capponiera. See Capon.] (Fort.)

Defn: A work made across or in the ditch, to protect it from the
enemy, or to serve as a covered passageway.

CAPONIZE
Ca"pon*ize, v. t.

Defn: To castrate, as a fowl.

CAPORAL
Ca`po*ral" (kä`po*räl"), n. [Sp. See Corporal, n.]

Defn: One who directs work; an overseer. [Sp. Amer.]

CAPOT
Ca*pot", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A winning of all the tricks at the game of piquet. It counts
for forty points. Hoyle.

CAPOT
Ca*pot", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Capotted.]

Defn: To win all the tricks from, in playing at piquet.

CAPO TASTO
Ca"po tas"to. [It. capotasto.] (Music)

Defn: A sort of bar or movable nut, attached to the finger board of a
guitar or other  fretted instrument for the purpose of raising
uniformly the pitch of all the strings.

CAPOTE
Ca*pote", n. Etym: [Sp. capote (cf. F. capote.), fr. LL. capa cape,
cloak. See Cap.]

Defn: A long cloak or overcoat, especially one with a hood.

CAPOUCH
Ca*pouch", n. & v. t.

Defn: Same as Capoch.

CAPPADINE
Cap"pa*dine, n.

Defn: A floss or waste obtained from the cocoon after the silk has
been reeled off, used for shag.

CAPPAPER
Cap"pa`per,

Defn: See cap, n., also Paper, n.

CAPPEAK
Cap"peak`, n.

Defn: The front piece of a cap; -- now more commonly called visor.

CAPPELINE
Cap"pe*line`, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. capella. See Chapel.] (Med.)

Defn: A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stump
of an amputated limb.

CAPPELLA
Cap*pel"la, n.

Defn: See A cappella.

CAPPER
Cap"per, n.

1. One whose business is to make or sell caps.

2. A by-bidder; a decoy for gamblers [Slang, U. S.].

3. An instrument for applying a percussion cap to a gun or cartridge.

CAPPING PLANE
Cap"ping plane`. (Join.)

Defn: A plane used for working the upper surface of staircase rails.

CAPRA
Ca"pra, n. Etym: [L., a she goat.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ruminants, including the common goat.

CAPRATE
Cap"rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of capric acid.

CAPREOLATE
Cap"re*o*late, a. Etym: [L. capreolus wild goat, tendril, fr.caper
goat: cf. F. capréolé.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having a tendril or tendrils.

CAPREOLINE
Cap"re*o*line, a. Etym: [L. capreolus wild goat, fr. caper goat.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the roebuck.

CAPRI
Ca"pri, n.

Defn: Wine produced on the island of Capri, commonly a light, dry,
white wine.

CAPRIC
Cap"ric, a. Etym: [L. caper goat.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to capric acid or its derivatives. Capric
acid, C9H9.CO2H, Caprylic acid, C7H15.CO2H, and Caproic acid,
C5H11.CO2H, are fatty acids occurring in small quantities in butter,
cocoanut oil, etc., united with glycerin; they are colorless oils, or
white crystalline solids, of an unpleasant odor like that of goats or
sweat.

CAPRICCIO
Ca*pric"cio, n. Etym: [It. See Caprice.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A piece in a free form, with frequent digressions from the
theme; a fantasia; -- often called caprice.

2. A caprice; a freak; a fancy. Shak.

CAPRICE
Ca*price", n. Etym: [F. caprice, It. capriccio, caprice (perh. orig.
a fantastical goat leap), fr. L. caper, capra, goat. Cf Capriole,
Cab, Caper, v. i.]

1. An abrupt change in feeling, opinion, or action, proceeding from
some whim or fancy; a freak; a notion. "Caprices of appetite." W.
Irving.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: See Capriccio.

Syn.
 -- Freak; whim; crotchet; fancy; vagary; humor; whimsey; fickleness.

CAPRICIOSO; CAPRICCIOSO
Ca*pri*cio"so, Ca*pric*cio"so, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus)

Defn: In a free, fantastic style.

CAPRICIOUS
Ca*pri"cious, a. Etym: [Cf. F. capricleux, It. capriccioso.]

Defn: Governed or characterized by caprice; apt to change suddenly;
freakish; whimsical; changeable. "Capricious poet." Shak. "Capricious
humor." Hugh Miller.
A capricious partiality to the Romish practices. Hallam.

Syn.
 -- Freakish; whimsical; fanciful; fickle; crotchety; fitful;
wayward; changeable; unsteady; uncertain; inconstant; arbitrary.
 -- Ca*pri"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*pri"cious*ness, n.

CAPRICORN
Cap"ri*corn, n. Etym: [L. capricornus; caper goat + cornu horn: cf.
F. capricorne.]

1. (Astron.)

Defn: The tenth sign of zodiac, into which the sun enters at the
winter solstice, about December 21. See Tropic.
The sun was entered into Capricorn. Dryden.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A southern constellation, represented on ancient monuments by
the figure of a goat, or a figure with its fore part like a fish.
Capricorn beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle of the family Carambucidæ; one
of the long-horned beetles. The larvæ usually bore into the wood or
bark of trees and shurbs and are often destructive. See Girdler,
Pruner.

CAPRID
Cap"rid, a. Etym: [L. caper, capra, goat.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tribe of ruminants of which the goat,
or genus Capra, is the type.

CAPRIFICATION
Cap"ri*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. caprificatio, fr. caprificare to
ripen figs by caprification, fr. caprificus the wild fig; caper goat
+ ficus fig.]

Defn: The practice of hanging, upon the cultivated fig tree, branches
of the wild fig infested with minute hymenopterous insects.

Note: It is supposed that the little insects insure fertilization by
carrying the pollen from the male flowers near the opening of the fig
down to the female flowers, and also accelerate ripening the fruit by
puncturing it. The practice has existed since ancient times, but its
benefit has been disputed.

CAPRIFOLE
Cap"ri*fole, n. Etym: [L. caper goat + folium leaf.]

Defn: The woodbine or honeysuckle. Spenser.

CAPRIFOLIACEOUS
Cap"ri*fo`li*a`ceous, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Honeysuckle family of
plants (Caprifoliacæ.

CAPRIFORM
Cap"ri*form, a. Etym: [L. caper goat + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a goat.

CAPRIGENOUS
Ca*prig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. caprigenus; caper goat + gegnere to
produce.]

Defn: Of the goat kind.

CAPRINE
Cap"rine, a. Etym: [L. caprinus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a goat; as, caprine gambols.

CAPRIOLE
Cap"ri*ole, n. Etym: [F. capriole, cabriole, It. capriola, fr. L.
caper goat. Cf. Caper, v. i. Cabriole, Caprice, Cheveril.]

1. (Man.)

Defn: A leap that a horse makes with all fours, upwards only, without
advancing, but with a kick or jerk of the hind legs when at the
height of the leap.

2. A leap or caper, as in dancing. "With lofty turns and caprioles."
Sir J. Davies.

CAPRIOLE
Cap"ri*ole, v. i.

Defn: To perform a capriole. Carlyle.

CAPRIPED
Cap"ri*ped, a. Etym: [L. capripers; caper goat + pes pedis, foot.]

Defn: Having feet like those of a goat.

CAPROATE
Cap"ro*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of caproic acid.

CAPROIC
Ca*pro"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: See under Capric.

CAPRYLATE
Cap"ry*late, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of caprylic acid.

CAPRYLIC
Ca*pryl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: See under Capric.

CAPSAICIN
Cap*sa"i*cin, n. Etym: [From Capsicum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless crystalline substance extracted from the Capsicum
annuum, and giving off vapors of intense acridity.

CAPSHEAF
Cap"sheaf`, n.

Defn: The top sheaf of a stack of grain: (fig.) the crowning or
finishing part of a thing.

CAPSICIN
Cap"si*cin, n. Etym: [From Capsicum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A red liquid or soft resin extracted from various species of
capsicum.

CAPSICINE
Cap"si*cine, n. Etym: [From Capsicum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A valatile alkaloid extracted from Capsicum annuum or from
capsicin.

CAPSICUM
Cap"si*cum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. capsa box, chest.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of many species, producing capsules or dry
berries of various forms, which have an exceedingly pungent, biting
taste, and when ground form the red of Cayenne pepper of commerce.

Note: The most important species are Capsicum baccatum or birs
pepper. C, annuum or chili pepper, C. frutesens or spur pepper, and
C. annuum or Guinea pepeer, which includes the bell pepper and other
common garden varieties. The fruit is much used, both in its green
and ripe state, in pickles and in cookery. See Cayenne pepper.

CAPSIZE
Cap*size", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Capsized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Capsizing.] Etym: [Cf. Sp. cabecear to nod, pitch, capuzar, chapuzar,
to sink (a vessel) by the head; both fr. L. caput head.]

Defn: To upset or overturn, as a vessel or other body.
But what if carrying sail capsize the boat Byron.

CAPSIZE
Cap"size`, n.

Defn: An upset or overturn.

CAPSQUARE
Cap"*square, n. (Gun.)

Defn: A metal covering plate which passes over the trunnions of a
cannon, and holds it in place.

CAPSTAN
Cap"stan, n. Etym: [F. cabestan, fr. Sp. cabestrante, cabrestante,
fr. cabestrar to bind with a halter, fr. cabestrohalter, fr. L.
capistrum halter, fr. capere to hold (see Capacious); or perh. the
Spanish is fr. L. caper goat + stans, p. pr. of stare to stand; cf.
F. chèvre she-goat, also a machine for raising heavy weights.]

Defn: A vertical cleated drum or cylinder, revolving on an upright
spindle, and surmounted by a drumhead with sockets for bars or
levers. It is much used, especially on shipboard, for moving or
raising heavy weights or exerting great power by traction upon a rope
or cable, passing around the drum. It is operated either by steam
power or by a number of men walking around the capstan, each pushing
on the end of a lever fixed in its socket. [Sometimes spelt Capstern,
but improperly.] Capstan bar, one of the long bars or levers by which
the capstan is worked; a handspike..
 -- To pawl the capstan, to drop the pawls so that they will catch in
the notches of the pawl ring, and prevent the capstan from turning
back.
 -- To rig the capstan, to prepare the for use, by putting the bars
in the sockets.
 -- To surge the capstan, to slack the tension of the rope or cable
wound around it.

CAPSTONE
Cap"stone`, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil echinus of the genus Cannulus; -- so called from its
supposed resemblance to a cap.

CAPSULAR; CAPSULARY
Cap"su*lar, Cap"su*la*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. capsulaire.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a capsule; having the nature of a capsula;
hollow and fibrous. Capsular ligament (Anat.), a ligamentous bag or
capsule surrounding many movable joints in the skeleton.

CAPSULATE; CAPSULATED
Cap"su*late, Cap"su*la`ted, a.

Defn: Inclosed in a capsule, or as in a chest or box.

CAPSULE
Cap"sule, n. Etym: [L. capsula a little box or chest, fr. capsa
chest, case, fr. capere to take, contain: cf. F. capsule.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: a dry fruit or pod which is made up of several parts or
carpels, and opens to discharge the seeds, as, the capsule of the
poppy, the flax, the lily, etc.

2. (Chem.)
(a) A small saucer of clay for roasting or melting samples of ores,
etc.; a scorifier.
(b) a small, shallow, evaporating dish, usually of porcelain.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A small cylindrical or spherical gelatinous envelope in which
nauseous or acrid doses are inclosed to be swallowed.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: A membranous sac containing fluid, or investing an organ or
joint; as, the capsule of the lens of the eye. Also, a capsulelike
organ.

5. A metallic seal or cover for closing a bottle,

6. A small cup or shell, as of metal, for a percussion cap,
cartridge, etc. Atrabiliary capsule. See under Atrabiliary.
 -- Glisson's capsule, a membranous envelope, entering the liver
along with the portal vessels and insheathing the latter in their
course through the organ.
 -- Suprarenal capsule, an organ of unknown function, above or in
front of each kidney.

CAPSULITIS
Cap`su*li"tis, n. [NL.; E. capsule + -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of a capsule, as that of the crystalline lens.

CAPSULOTOMY
Cap`su*lot"o*my, n.  [Capsule + Gr.  to cut.] (Surg.)

Defn: The incision of a capsule, esp. of that of the crystalline
lens, as in a cataract operation.

CAPTAIN
Cap"tain, n. Etym: [OE. capitain, captain, OF. capitain, F. capitaine
(cf. Sp. capitan, It. capitano), LL. capitaneus, capitanus, fr. L.
caput the head. See under Chief, and cf. Chieftain.]

1. A head, or chief officer; as:
(a) The military officer who commands a company, troop, or battery,
or who has the rank entitling him to do so though he may be employed
on other service.
(b) An officer in the United States navy, next above a commander and
below a commodore, and ranking with a colonel in the ermy.
(c) By courtesy, an officer actually commanding a vessel, although
not having the rank of captain.
(d) The master or commanding officer of a merchant vessel.
(e) One in charge of a portion of a ship's company; as, a captain of
a top, captain of a gun, etc.
(f) The foreman of a body of workmen.
(g) A person having authority over others acting in concert; as, the
captain of a boat's crew; the captain of a football team.
A trainband captain eke was he. Cowper.
The Rhodian captain, relying on . . . the lightness of his vessel,
passed, in open day, through all the guards. Arbuthnot.

2. A military leader; a warrior.
Foremost captain of his time. Tennyson.
Captain general. (a) The commander in chief of an army or armies, or
of the militia. (b) The Spanish governor of Cuba and its dependent
islands.
 -- Captain lieutenant, a lieutenant with the rank and duties of
captain but with a lieutenant's pay, -- as in the first company of an
English regiment.

CAPTAIN
Cap"tain, v. t.

Defn: To act as captain of; to lead. [R.]
Men who captained or accompanied the exodus from existing forms.
Lowell.

CAPTAIN
Cap"tain, a.

Defn: Chief; superior. [R.]
captain jewes in the carcanet. Shak.

CAPTAINCY
Cap"tain*cy, n.; pl. Captaincies (.

Defn: The rank, post, or commission of a captain. Washington.
Captaincy general, the office, power, teritory, or jurisdiction of a
captain general; as, the captaincy general of La Habana (Cuba and its
islands).

CAPTAINRY
Cap"tain*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. capitainerie.]

Defn: Power, or command, over a certain district; chieftainship.
[Obs.]

CAPTAINSHIP
Cap"tain*ship, n.

1. The condition, rank, post, or authority of a captain or chief
commander. "To take the captainship." Shak.

2. Military skill; as, to show good captainship.

CAPTATION
Cap*ta`tion, n. Etym: [L. captatio, fr. captare to catch, intens of
caper to take: cf. F. captation.]

Defn: A courting of favor or applause, by flattery or address; a
captivating quality; an attraction. [Obs.]
Without any of those dresses, or popular captations, which some men
use in their speeches. Eikon Basilike.

CAPTION
Cap"tion, n. Etym: [L. captio, fr. caper to take. In senses 3 and 4,
perhaps confounded in meaning with L. caput a head. See Capacious.]

1. A caviling; a sophism. [Obs.]
This doctrine is for caption and contradiction. Bacon.

2. The act of taking or arresting a person by judicial process. [R.]
Bouvier.

3. (Law)

Defn: That part of a legal instrument, as a commission, indictment,
etc., which shows where, when, and by what authority, it taken,
found, or executed. Bouvier. Wharton.

4. The heading of a chapter, section, or page. [U. S.]

CAPTIOUS
Cap"tious, a. Etym: [F. captieux, L. captiosus. See Caption.]

1. Art to catch at faults; disposed to find fault or to cavil; eager
to object; difficult to please.
A captius and suspicious. Stillingfleet.
I am sensible I have not disposed my materials to adbide the test of
a captious controversy. Bwike.

2. Fitted to harass, perplex, or insnare; insidious; troublesome.
Captious restraints on navigation. Bancroft.

Syn.
 -- Caviling, carping, fault-finding; censorious; hypercritical;
peevish, fretful; perverse; troublesome.
 -- Captious, caviling, Carping. A captious person is one who has a
fault-finding habit or manner, or is disposed to catch at faults,
errors, etc., with quarrelsome intent; a caviling person is disposed
to raise objections on frivolous grounds; carping implies that one is
given to ill-natured, persistent, or unreasonable fault-finding, or
picking up of the words or actions of others.
Caviling is the carping of argument, carping the caviling of ill
temper. C. J. Smith.

CAPTIOUSLY
Cap"tious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a captious manner.

CAPTIOUSNESS
Cap"tious*ness, n.

Defn: Captious disposition or manner.

CAPTIVATE
Cap"ti*vate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Captivated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Captivating.] Etym: [L. captivatus, p. p. of captivare to capture,
fr. captivus captive. See Captive.]

1. To take prisoner; to capture; to subdue. [Obs.]
Their woes whom fortune captivates. Shak.

2. To acquire ascendancy over by reason of some art or attraction; to
fascinate; to charm; as, Cleopatra captivated Antony; the orator
captivated all hearts.
Small landscapes of captivating loveliness. W. Irving.

Syn.
 -- To enslave; subdue; overpower; charm; enchant; bewitch; facinate;
capture; lead captive.

CAPTIVATE
Cap"ti*vate, p. a. Etym: [L. captivatus.]

Defn: Taken prisoner; made captive; insnared; charmed.
Women have been captivate ere now. Shak.

CAPTIVATING
Cap"ti*va`ting, a.

Defn: Having power to captivate or cham; fascinating; as, captivating
smiles.
 -- Cap"tiva`ting*ly, adv.

CAPTIVATION
Cap"ti*va`tion, n. Etym: [L. capticatio.]

Defn: The act of captivating. [R.]
The captivation of our understanding. Bp. Hall.

CAPTIVE
Cap"tive, n. Etym: [L. captivus, fr. capere to take: cf. F. captif.
See Caitiff.]

1. A prisoner taken by force or stratagem, esp., by an enemy, in war;
one kept in bondage or in the power of another.
Then, when I am thy captive, talk of chains. Milton.

2. One charmed or subdued by beaty, excellence, or affection; one who
is captivated.

CAPTIVE
Cap"tive, a.

1. Made prisoner, especially in war; held in bondage or in
confinement.
A poor, miserable, captive thrall. Milton.

2. Subdued by love; charmed; captivated.
Even in so short a space, my wonan's heart Grossly grew captive to
his honey words. Shak.

3. Of or pertaining to bondage or confinement; serving to confine;
as, captive chains; captive hours.

CAPTIVE
Cap"tive, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Captived; p. pr. & vb. n. Captiving.]

Defn: To take prisoner; to capture.
Their inhabitans slaughtered and captived. Burke.

CAPTIVITY
Cap*tiv"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. captivitas: cf. F. captivité.]

1. The state of being a captive or a prisoner.
More celebrated in his captivity that in his greatest triumphs.
Dryden.

2. A state of being under control; subjection of the will or
affections; bondage.
Sink in the soft captivity together. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Imprisonment; confinement; bondage; subjection; servitude;
slavery; thralldom; serfdom.

CAPTOR
Cap"tor, n. Etym: [L., a cather (of animals), fr. caper to take.]

Defn: One who captures any person or thing, as a prisoner or a prize.

CAPTURE
Cap"ture, n. Etym: [L. capture, fr. caper to take: cf. F. capture.
See Caitiff, and cf. aptive.]

1. The act of seizing by force, or getting possession of by superior
power or by stratagem; as, the capture of an enemy, a vessel, or a
criminal.
Even with regard to captures made at sea. Bluckstone.

2. The securing of an object of strife or desire, as by the power of
some attraction.

3. The thing taken by force, surprise, or stratagem; a prize; prey.

Syn.
 -- Seizure; apprehension; arrest; detention.

CAPTURE
Cap"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Captured; p. pr. & vb. n. Capturing.]

Defn: To seize or take possession of by force, surprise, or
stratagem; to overcome and hold; to secure by effort.
Her heart is like some fortress that has been captured. W. Ivring.

CAPUCCIO
Ca*puc"cio, n. Etym: [It. cappucio. See Capoch.]

Defn: A capoch or hood. [Obs.] Spenser.

CAPUCHED
Ca*puched", a. Etym: [See Capoch.]

Defn: Cover with, or as with, a hood. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CAPUCHIN
Cap`u*chin", n. Etym: [F. capucin a monk who wears a cowl, fr. It.
cappuccio hood. See Capoch.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: A Franciscan monk of the austere branch established in 1526 by
Matteo di Baschi, distinguished by wearing the long pointed cowl or
capoch of St. Francis.
A bare-footed and long-bearded capuchin. Sir W. Scott.

2. A garment for women, consisting of a cloak and hood, resembling,
or supposed to resemble, that of capuchin monks.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A long-tailed South American monkey (Cabus capucinus), having the
forehead naked and wrinkled, with the hair on the crown reflexed and
resembling a monk's cowl, the rest being of a grayish white; --
called also capucine monkey, weeper, sajou, sapajou, and sai.
(b) Other species of Cabus, as C. fatuellus (the brown or horned
capucine.), C. albifrons (the cararara), and C. apella.
(c) A variety of the domestic pigeon having a hoodlike tuft of
feathers on the head and sides of the neck. Capuchin nun, one of an
austere order of Franciscan nuns which came under Capuchin rule in
1538. The order had recently been founded by Maria Longa.

CAPUCINE
Cap"u*cine, n.

Defn: See Capuchin, 3.

CAPULET
Cap"u*let, n. (Far.)

Defn: Same as Capellet.

CAPULIN
Cap"u*lin, n. Etym: [Sp. capuli.]

Defn: The Mexican chery (Prunus Capollin).

CAPUT
Ca"put, n.; pl. Capita. Etym: [L., the head.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The head; also, a knoblike protuberance or capitulum.

2. The top or superior part of a thing.

3. (Eng.)

Defn: The council or ruling body of the University of Cambridge prior
to the constitution of 1856.
Your caputs and heads of colleges. Lamb.
Caput mortuum (. Etym: [L., dead head.] (Old Chem.) The residuum
after distillation or sublimation; hence, worthless residue.

CAPYBARA
Ca`py*ba"ra, n. Etym: [Sp. capibara, fr. the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large South American rodent (Hydrochærus capybara) Living on
the margins of lakes and rivers. It is the largest extant rodent,
being about three feet long, and half that in height. It somewhat
resembles the Guinea pig, to which it is related; -- called also
cabiai and water hog.

CAR
Car, n. Etym: [OF. car, char, F. cahr, fr. L. carrus, Wagon: a Celtic
word; cf. W. car, Armor. karr, Ir. & Gael. carr. cf. Chariot.]

1. A small vehicle moved on wheels; usually, one having but two
wheels and drawn by one horse; a cart.

2. A vehicle adapted to the rails of a railroad. [U. S.]

Note: In England a railroad passenger car is called a railway
carriage; a freight car a goods wagon; a platform car a goods truck;
a baggage car a van. But styles of car introduced into England from
America are called cars; as, tram car. Pullman car. See Train.

3. A chariot of war or of triumph; a vehicle of splendor, dignity, or
solemnity. [Poetic].
The gilded car of day. Milton.
The towering car, the sable steeds. Tennyson.

4. (Astron.)

Defn: The stars also called Charles's Wain, the Great Bear, or the
Dipper.
The Pleiads, Hyads, and the Northern Car. Dryden.

5. The cage of a lift or elevator.

6. The basket, box, or cage suspended from a ballon to contain
passengers, ballast, etc.

7. A floating perforated box for living fish. [U. S.] Car coupling,
or Car coupler, a shackle or other device for connecting the cars in
a railway train. [U. S.] -- Dummy car (Railroad), a car containing
its own steam power or locomotive.
 -- Freight car (Railrood), a car for the transportation of
merchandise or other goods. [U. S.] -- Hand car (Railroad), a small
car propelled by hand, used by railroad laborers, etc. [U. S.] --
Horse car, or Street car, an ommibus car, draw by horses or other
power upon rails laid in the streets. [U. S.] -- Palace car, Drawing-
room car, Sleeping car, Parior caretc. , (Railroad), cars especially
designed and furnished for the comfort of travelers.

CARABAO
Ca`ra*ba"o, n. [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The water buffalo. [Phil. Islands]

CARABID
Car"a*bid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Carbus or family
Carabidæ.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Carabidæ, a family of active insectivorous beetles.

CARABINE
Car"a*bine, n. (Mil.)

Defn: A carbine.

CARABINEER
Car`a*bi*neer", n.

Defn: A carbineer.

CARABOID
Car"a*boid, a. Etym: [Carabus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to the genus Carabus.

CARABUS
Car"a*bus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ground beetles, including numerous species. They
devour many injurious insects.

CARAC
Car"ac, n.

Defn: See Carack.

CARACAL
Car"a*cal, n. Etym: [F. caracal, fr. Turk garahgootag; garah black +
goofag ear.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lynx (Felis, or Lynx, caracal.) It is a native of Africa and
Asia. Its ears are black externally, and tipped with long black
hairs.

CARACARA
Ca"`ra*ca"ra, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A south American bird of several species and genera, resembling
both the eagles and the vultures. The caracaras act as scavengers,
and are also called carrion buzzards.

Note: The black caracara is Ibycter ater; the chimango is Milvago
chimango; the Brazilian is Polyborus Braziliensis.

CARACK
Car"ack, n. Etym: [F. caraque (cf. Sp. & Pg. carraca, It. caracca.),
LL. carraca, fr. L. carrus wagon; or perh. fr. Ar. qorqur (pl.
qaraqir) a carack.] (Naut.)

Defn: A kind of large ship formerly used by the Spaniards and
Portuguese in the East India trade; a galleon. [Spelt also carrack.]
The bigger whale like some huge carrack law. Waller.

CARACOLE
Car"a*cole, n. Etym: [F. caracole, caracol, fr. Sp. caracol snail,
winding staircase, a wheeling about.]

1. (Man.)

Defn: A half turn which a horseman makes, either to the right or the
left.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A staircase in a spiral form. En caracole ( Etym: [F.], spiral;
-- said of a staircase.

CARACOLE
Car"a*cole, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caracoled.] Etym: [Cf. F. caracoler.]
(Man.)

Defn: To move in a caracole, or in caracoles; to wheel.
Prince John caracoled within the lists. Sir W. Scott.

CARACOLY
Car"a*col`y, n.

Defn: An alloy of gold, silver, and copper, of which an inferior
quality of jewerly is made.

CARACORE; CARACORA
Car"a*core, Car"a*co`ra, n. Etym: [Malay kurakura.]

Defn: A light vessel or proa used by the people of Borneo, etc., and
by the Dutch in the East Indies.

CARACUL
Ca`ra*cul", n.

Defn: Var. of Karakul, a kind of fur.

CARAFE
Ca*rafe", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A glass water bottle for the table or toilet; -- called also
croft.

CARAGEEN; CARAGHEEN
Car"a*geen` or Car"a*gheen`, n.

Defn: See Carrageen.

CARAMBOLA
Ca`ram*bo"la, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An East Indian tree (Averrhoa Carambola), and its acid, juicy
fruit; called also Coromandel gooseberry.

CARAMEL
Car"a*mel, n. Etym: [F. caramel (cf. Sp. caramelo), LL. canna mellis,
cannamella, canamella, calamellus mellitus, sugar cane, from or
confused with L. canna reed + mel, mellis, honey. See Cane.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: Burnt sugar; a brown or black porous substance obtained by
heating sugar. It is soluble in water, and is used for coloring
spirits, gravies, etc.

2. A kind of confectionery, usually a small cube or square of
tenacious paste, or candy, of varying composition and flavor.

CARANGOID
Ca*ran"goid, a. Etym: [Caranx + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Carangidæ, a family of fishes allied to the
mackerels, and including the caranx, American bluefish, and the pilot
fish.

CARANX
Ca"ranx, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fishes, common on the Atlantic coast, including the
yellow or goldon mackerel.

CARAPACE
Car"a*pace, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The thick shell or sheild which cover the back of the tortoise,
or turtle, the crab, and other crustaceous animals.

CARAPATO
Ca`ra*pa"to, n. Etym: [Pg. carrapato.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A south American tick of the genus Amblyamma. There are several
species, very troublesome to man and beast.

CARAPAX
Car"a*pax, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Carapace.

CARAT
Car"at, n. Etym: [F. carat (cf. It. carato, OPg. quirate, Pg. & Sp.
quilate), Ar. q bean or pea shell, a weight of four grins, a carat,
fr. Gr. Horn.]

1. The weight by which precious stones and pearls are weighed.

Note: The carat equals three and one fifth grains Troy, and is
divided into four grains, sometimes called carat grains. Diamonds and
other precious stones are estimated by carats and fractions of
carats, and pearls, usually, by carat grains. Titfany.

2. A twenty-fourth part; -- a term used in estimating the
proportionate fineness of gold.

Note: A mass of metal is said to be so many carats fine, according to
the number of twenty-fourths of pure gold which it contains; as, 22
carats fine (goldsmith's standard) = 22 parts of gold, 1 of copper,
and 1 of silver.

CARAVAN
Car"a*van, n. Etym: [F. caravane (cf. Sp. caravana), fr. Per. karmwan
a caravan (in sense 1). Cf. Van a wagon.]

1. A company of travelers, pilgrims, or merchants, organized and
equipped for a long journey, or marching or traveling together, esp.
through deserts and countries infested by robbers or hostile tribes,
as in Asia or Africa.

2. A large, covered wagon, or a train of such wagons, for conveying
wild beasts, etc., for exhibition; an itinerant show, as of wild
beasts.

3. A covered vehicle for carrying passengers or for moving furniture,
etc.; -- sometimes shorted into van.

CARAVANEER
Car`a*van*eer", n. Etym: [Cf. F. caravanier.]

Defn: The leader or driver of the camels in caravan.

CARAVANSARY
Car`a*van"sa*ry, n.; pl. Caravansaries Etym: [F. caravansérai, fr.
Per. karwansara\'8b; karwan caravan + -sara\'8b palace, large house,
inn.]

Defn: A kind of inn, in the East, where caravans rest at night, being
a large, rude, unfurnished building, surrounding a court. [Written
also caravanserai and caravansera.]

CARAVEL
Car"a*vel, n. Etym: [F. caravelle (cf. It. caravella, Sp. carabela),
fr. Sp. caraba a kind of vessel, fr. L. carabus a kind of light boat,
fr. Gr. [written also caravel and caravelle.] (Naut.)

Defn: A name given to several kinds of vessels.
(a) The caravel of the 16th century was a small vessel with broad
bows, high, narrow poop, four masts, and lateen sails. Columbus
commanded three caravels on his great voyage.
(b) A Portuguese vessel of 100 or 150 tons burden.
(c) A small fishing boat used on the French coast.
(d) A Turkish man-of-war.

CARAWAY
Car"a*way, n. Etym: [F. carvi (cf. Sp. carvi and al-caravea, al-
carahueya, Pg. al-caravia) fr. Ar. karawi\'befr. Gr. caraum.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A biennial plant of the Parsley family (Carum Carui). The seeds
have an aromatic smell, and a warm, pungent taste. They are used in
cookery and confectionery, and also in medicine as a carminative.

2. A cake or sweetmeat containing caraway seeds.
Caraways, or biscuits, or some other [comfits]. Cogan.

CARBAMIC
Car*bam"ic, a. Etym: [Carbon + amido.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to an acid so called. Carbamic acid (Chem.), an
amido acid, NH2.CO2H, not existing in the free state, but occurring
as a salt of ammonium in commercial ammonium carbonate; -- called
also amido formic acid.

CARBAMIDE
Car*bam"ide, n. Etym: [Carbonyl + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: The technical name for urea.

CARBAMINE
Car*bam"ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An isocyanide of a hydrocarbon radical. The carbamines are
liquids, usually colorless, and of unendurable odor.

CARBANIL
Car"ba*nil, n. Etym: [Carbonyl + aniline.] (Chem.)

Defn: A mobile liquid, CO.N.C6H5, of pungent odor. It is the phenyl
salt of isocyanic acid.

CARBAZOL
Car"ba*zol, n. Etym: [Carbon + azo + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystallized substance, C12H8NH, derived from aniline
and other amines.

CARBAZOTATE
Car*baz"o*tate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of carbazotic or picric acid; a picrate.

CARBAZOTIC
Car`ba*zot"ic, a. Etym: [Carbon + azole.]

Defn: Containing, or derived from, carbon and nitrogen. Carbazotic
acid (Chem.), picric acid. See under Picric.

CARBIDE
Car"bide, n. Etym: [Carbon + -ide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound of carbon with some other element or radical,
in which the carbon plays the part of a negative; -- formerly termed
carburet.

CARBIMIDE
Car"bi*mide, n. Etym: [Carbon + imide] (Chem.)

Defn: The technical name for isocyanic acid. See under Isocyanic.

CARBINE
Car"bine, n. Etym: [F. carbine, OF. calabrin carabineer (cf. Ot.
calabrina a policeman), fr. OF & Pr. calabre, OF. cable, chable, an
engine of war used in besieging, fr. LL. chadabula, cabulus, a kind
of projectile machine, fr. Gr. Parable.] (Mil.)

Defn: A short, light musket or rifle, esp. one used by mounted
soldiers or cavalry.

CARBINEER
Car`bi*neer", n. Etym: [F. carabinier.] (Mil.)

Defn: A soldier armed with a carbine.

CARBINOL
Car"bi*nol, n. Etym: [Carbin (Kolbe's name for the radical) + -ol.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Methyl alcohol, CH3OH; -- also, by extension, any one in the
homologous series of paraffine alcohols of which methyl alcohol is
the type.

CARBOHYDRATE
Car`bo*hy"drate, n. Etym: [Carbon + hydrate.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: One of a group of compounds including the sugars, starches, and
gums, which contain six (or some multiple of six) carbon atoms,
united with a variable number of hydrogen and oxygen atoms, but with
the two latter always in proportion as to form water; as dextrose,
C6H12O6.

CARBOHYDRIDE
Car`bo*hy"dride, n. Etym: [Carbon + hydrogen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon.

CARBOLIC
Car*bol"ic, a. Etym: [L. carbo coal + oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived from coal tar
and other sources; as, carbolic acid (called also phenic acid, and
phenol). See Phenol.

CARBOLIZE
Car"bo*lize, v. t. (Med.)

Defn: To apply carbonic acid to; to wash or treat with carbolic acid.

CARBON
Car"bon, n. Etym: [F. carbone, fr. L. carbo coal; cf, Skr. (Chem.)

Defn: An elementary substance, not metallic in its nature, which is
present in all organic compounds. Atomic weight 11.97. Symbol C. it
is combustible, and forms the base of lampblack and charcoal, and
enters largely into mineral coals. In its pure crystallized state it
constitutes the diamond, the hardest of known substances, occuring in
monometric crystals like the octahedron, etc. Another modification is
graphite, or blacklead, and in this it is soft, and occurs in
hexagonal prisms or tables. When united with oxygen it forms carbon
dioxide, commonly called carbonic acid, or carbonic oxide, according
to the proportions of the oxygen; when united with hydrogen, it forms
various compounds called hydrocarbons. Compare Diamond, and Graphite.
Carbon compounds, Compounds of carbon (Chem.), those compounds
consisting largely of carbon, commonly produced by animals and
plants, and hence called organic compounds, though their synthesis
may be effected in many cases in the laboratory.
The formation of the compounds of carbon is not dependent upon the
life process. I. Remsen
-Carbon dioxide, Carbon monoxide. (Chem.) See under Carbonic.
 -- Carbon light (Elec.), an extremely brilliant electric light
produced by passing a galvanic current through two carbon points kept
constantly with their apexes neary in contact.
 -- Carbon point (Elec.), a small cylinder or bit of gas carbon moved
forward by clockwork so that, as it is burned away by the electric
current, it shall contantly maintain its proper relation to the
opposing point.
 -- Carbon tissue, paper coated with gelatine and pigment, used in
the autotype process of photography. Abney.
 -- Gas carbon, a compact variety of carbon obtained as an
incrustation on the interior of gas retorts, and used for the
manufacture of the carbon rods of pencils for the voltaic, arc, and
for the plates of voltaic batteries, etc.

CARBONACEOUS
Car"bo*na`ceous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, containing, or composed of, carbon.

CARBONADE; CARBONADO
Car"bo*nade, Car`bo*na"do, n. Etym: [Cf. F. carbonnade, It.
carbonata, Sp. carbonada, from L. carbo coal.] (Cookery)

Defn: Flesh, fowl, etc., cut across, seasoned, and broiled on coals;
a chop. [Obs.]

CARBONADO; CARBONADE
Car`bo*na"do, Car"bo*nade, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Carbonadoed; p. pr. &
vb. n. Carbonadoing.]

1. To cut (meat) across for frying or broiling; to cut or slice and
broil. [Obs.]
A short-legged hen daintily carbonadoed. Bean. & Fl.

2. To cut or hack, as in fighting. [Obs.]
I'll so carbonado your shanks. Shak.

CARBONADO
Car`bo*na"do, n.; pl. Carbonadoes. Etym: [Pg., carbonated.] (Min.)

Defn: A black variety of diamond, found in Brazil, and used for
diamond drills. It occurs in irregular or rounded fragments, rarely
distinctly crystallized, with a texture varying from compact to
porous.

CARBONARISM
Car`bo*na"rism, n.

Defn: The principles, practices, or organization of the Carbonari.

CARBONARO
Car`bo*na"ro, n.; pl. Carbonari. Etym: [It., a coal man.]

Defn: A member of a secret political association in Italy, organized
in the early part of the nineteenth centry for the purpose of
changing the government into a republic.

Note: The origin of the Carbonari is uncertain, but the society is
said to have first met, in 1808, among the charcoal burners of the
mountains, whose phraseology they adopted.

CARBONATATION
Car`bon*a*ta"tion, n. Etym: [From Carbonate.] (Sugar Making)

Defn: The saturation of defecated beet juice with carbonic acid gas.
Knight.

CARBONATE
Car"bon*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. carbonate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt or carbonic acid, as in limestone, some forms of lead
ore, etc.

CARBONATED
Car"bon*a`ted, a.

Defn: Combined or impregnated with carbonic acid.

CARBONE
Car"bone, v. t. Etym: [See Carbonado.]

Defn: To broil. [Obs.] "We had a calf's head carboned". Pepys.

CARBONIC
Car*bon"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. carbonique. See Carbon.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, carbon; as, carbonic
oxide. Carbonic acid (Chem.), an acid H2CO3, not existing separately,
which, combined with positive or basic atoms or radicals, forms
carbonates. On common language the term is very generally applied to
a compound of carbon and oxygen, CO2, more correctly called carbon
dioxide. It is a colorless, heavy, irrespirable gas, extinguishing
flame, and when breathed destroys life. It can be reduced to a liquid
and solid form by intense pressure. It is produced in the
fermentation of liquors, and by the combustion and decomposition of
organic substances, or other substances containing carbon. It is
formed in the explosion of fire damp in mines, and is hance called
after damp; it is also know as choke damp, and mephilic air. Water
will absorb its own volume of it, and more than this under pressure,
and in this state becomes the common soda water of the shops, and the
carbonated water of natural springs. Combined with lime it
constitutes limestone, or common marble and chalk. Plants imbibe it
for their nutrition and growth, the carbon being retained and the
oxygen given out.
 -- Carbonic oxide (Chem.), a colorless gas, CO, of a light odor,
called more correctly carbon monoxide. It is almost the only
definitely known compound in which carbon seems to be divalent. It is
a product of the incomplete combustion of carbon, and is an abundant
constituent of water gas. It is fatal to animal life, extinguishes
combustion, and burns with a pale blue flame, forming carbon dioxide.

CARBONIDE
Car"bon*ide, n.

Defn: A carbide. [R.]

CARBONIFEROUS
Car`bon*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Carbon + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing or containing carbon or coal. Carboniferous age
(Geol.), the age immediately following the Devonian, or Age of
fishes, and characterized by the vegatation which formed the coal
beds. This age embraces three periods, the Subcarboniferous, the
Carboniferous, and Permian. See Age of acrogens, under Acrogen.
 -- Carboniferous formation (Geol.), the series of rocks (including
sandstones, shales, limestones, and conglomerates, with beds of coal)
which make up the strata of the Carboniferous age or period. See the
Diagram under Geology.

CARBONITE
Car"bon*ite, n.  [Carbon + -ite.]

1.

Defn: An explosive consisting essentially of nitroglycerin, wood
meal, and some nitrate, as that of sodium.

2.  An explosive composed of nitrobenzene, saltpeter, sulphur, and
kieselguhr.

CARBONIZATION
Car`bon*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. carbonisation.]

Defn: The act or process of carbonizing.

CARBONIZE
Car"bon*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Carbonized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Carbonizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. carboniser.]

1. To cover (an animal or vegatable substance) into a residue of
carbon by the action of fire or some corrosive agent; to char.

2. To impregnate or combine with carbon, as in making steel by
cementation.

CARBONOMETER
Car`bon*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Carbon + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for detecting and measuring the amount of carbon
which is present, or more esp. the amount of carbon dioxide, by its
action on limewater or by other means.

CARBON PROCESS
Car"bon process. (Photog.)

Defn: A printing process depending on the effect of light on
bichromatized gelatin. Paper coated with a mixture of the gelatin and
a pigment is called carbon paper or carbon tissue. This is exposed
under a negative and the film is transferred from the paper to some
other support and developed by washing (the unexposed portions being
dissolved away). If the process stops here it is called single
transfer; if the image is afterward transferred in order to give an
unreversed print, the method is called double transfer.

CARBON STEEL
Carbon steel.

Defn: Steel deriving its qualities from carbon chiefly, without the
presence of other alloying elements; --opposed to alloy steel.

CARBON TRANSMITTER
Carbon transmitter.

Defn: A telephone transmitter in which a carbon contact is used.

CARBONYL
Car"bon*yl, n. Etym: [Carbon + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The radical (CO)'\'b7, occuring, always combined, in many
compounds, as the aldehydes, the ketones, urea, carbonyl chloride,
etc.

Note: Though denoted by a formula identical with that of carbon
monoxide, it is chemically distinct, as carbon seems to be divalent
in carbon monoxide, but tetravalent in carbonyl compounds. Carbonyl
chloride (Chem.), a colorless gas, COCl2, of offensive odor, and
easily condensable to liquid. It is formed from chlorine and carbon
monoxide, under the influence of light, and hence has been called
phosgene gas; -- called also carbon oxychloride.

CARBORUNDUM
Car`bo*run"dum, [Carbon + corundum.]

Defn: A beautiful crystalline compound, SiC, consisting of carbon and
silicon in combination; carbon silicide. It is made by heating carbon
and sand together in an electric furnace. The commercial article is
dark-colored and iridescent. It is harder than emery, and is used as
an abrasive.

CARBORUNDUM CLOTH; CARBORUNDUM PAPER
Carborundum cloth or paper.

Defn: Cloth or paper covered with powdered carborundum.

CARBOSTYRIL
Car`bo*sty"ril, n. Etym: [Carbon + styrene.]

Defn: A white crystalline substance, C9H6N.OH, of acid properties
derived from one of the amido cinnamic acids.

CARBOXIDE
Car*box"ide, n. Etym: [Carbon + oxide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of carbon and oxygen, as carbonyl, with some element
or radical; as, potassium carboxide. Potassium carboxide, a grayish
explosive crystalline compound, C6O6K, obtained by passing carbon
monoxide over heated potassium.

CARBOXYL
Car*box"yl, n. Etym: [Carbon + oxygen + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The complex radical, CO.OH, regarded as the essential and
characteristic constituent which all oxygen acids of carbon (as
formic, acetic, benzoic acids, etc.) have in common; -- called also
oxatyl.

CARBOY
Car"boy, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. & Gael carb basket; or Pers qurabah a sort
of bottle.]

Defn: A large, globular glass bottle, esp. one of green glass,
inclosed in basket work or in a box, for protection; -- used commonly
for carrying corrosive liquids; as sulphuric acid, etc.

CARBUNCLE
Car"bun*cle, n. Etym: [L. carbunculus a little coal, a bright kind of
precious stone, a kind of tumor, dim. of carbo coal: cf. F.
carboncle. See Carbon.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A beautiful gem of a deep red color (with a mixture of scarlet)
called by the Greeks anthrax; found in the East Indies. When held up
to the sun, it loses its deep tinge, and becomes of the color of
burning coal. The name belongs for the most part to ruby sapphire,
though it has been also given to red spinel and garnet.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A very painful acute local inflammation of the subcutaneous
tissue, esp. of the trunk or back of the neck, characterized by
brawny hardness of the affected parts, sloughing of the skin and
deeper tissues, and marked constitutional depression. It differs from
a boil in size, tendency to spread, and the absence of a central
core, and is frequently fatal. It is also called anthrax.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A charge or bearing supposed to represent the precious stone.
It has eight scepters or staves radiating from a common center.
Called also escarbuncle.

CARBUNCLED
Car"bun*cled, a.

1. Set with carbuncles.
He has deserves it [armor], were it carbuncled Like holy Phabus' car.
Shak.

2. Affected with a carbuncle or carbuncles; marked with red sores;
pimpled and blotched. "A carbuncled face." Brome.

CARBUNCULAR
Car*bun"cu*lar, a.

Defn: Belonging to a carbuncle; resembling a carbuncle; red;
inflamed.

CARBUNCULATION
Car*bun`cu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. carbunculatio.]

Defn: The blasting of the young buds of trees or plants, by excessive
heat or caold. Harris.

CARBURET
Car"bu*ret, n. Etym: [From Carbon.] (Chem.)

Defn: A carbide. See Carbide [Archaic]

CARBURET
Car"bu*ret, v. t. [imp & p. p. Carbureted or Carburetted (p. pr. &
vb. n. Carbureting or Carburetting.]

Defn: To combine or to impregnate with carbon, as by passing through
or over a liquid hydrocarbon; to carbonize or carburize.
By carbureting the gas you may use poorer coal. Knight.

CARBURETANT
Car"bu*ret`ant, n.

Defn: Any volatile liquid used in charging illuminating gases.

CARBURETED
Car"bu*ret`ed, a.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined with carbon in the manner of a carburet or carbide.

2. Saturated or impregnated with some volatile carbon compound; as,
water gas is carbureted to increase its illuminating power. [Written
also carburetted.] Carbureted hydrogen gas, any one of several
gaseous compounds of carbon and hydrogen, some of with make up
illuminating gas.
 -- Light carbureted hydrogen, marsh gas, CH4; fire damp.

CARBURETOR
Car"bu*ret`or, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An apparatus in which coal gas, hydrogen, or air is passed
through or over a volatile hydrocarbon, in order to confer or
increase illuminating power. [Written also carburettor.]

CARBURETOR; CARBURETTOR
Car"bu*ret`or, Car"bu*ret`tor, n.

Defn: One that carburets; specif., an apparatus in which air or gas
is carbureted, as by passing it through a light petroleum oil. The
carburetor for a gasoline engine is usually either a surface
carburetor, or a float, float-feed, or spray, carburetor. In the
former air is charged by being passed over the surface of gasoline.
In the latter a fine spray of gasoline is drawn from an atomizing
nozzle by a current of air induced by the suction of the engine
piston, the supply of gasoline being regulated by a float which
actuates a needle valve controlling the outlet of the feed pipe.
Alcohol and other volatile inflammable liquids may be used instead of
gasoline.

CARBURIZATION
Car"bu*ri*za`tion, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The act, process, or result of carburizing.

CARBURIZE
Car"bu*rize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Carburized; p. pr. & vb. N.
Carburizing.] (Chem.)

Defn: To combine wtih carbon or a carbon compound; -- said esp. of a
process for conferring a higher degree of illuminating power on
combustible gases by mingling them with a vapor of valatile
hydrocarbons.

CARCAJOU
Car"ca*jou, n. Etym: [Probably a Canadian French corruption of an
Indian name of the wolverene.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wolverence; -- also applied, but erroneously, to the Canada
lynx, and sometimes to the American badger. See Wolverene.

CARCANET
Car"ca*net, n. Etym: [Dim. fr. F. carcan the iron collar or chain of
a criminal, a chain of preciousstones, LL. carcannum, fr. Armor.
kerchen bosom, neck, kechen collar, fr. kelch circle; or Icel. kverk
troat, OHG, querca throat.]

Defn: A jeweled chain, necklace, or collar. [Also written carkenet
and carcant.] Shak.

CARCASE
Car"case, n.

Defn: See Carcass.

CARCASS
Car"cass, n.; pl. Carcasses. [Written also carcase.] Etym: [F.
carcasse, fr. It. carcassa, fr. L. caro flesh + capsa chest, box,
case. Cf. Carnal, Case a sheath.]

1. A dead body, whether of man or beast; a corpse; now commonly the
dead body of a beast.
He turned to see the carcass of the lion. Judges xiv. 8.
This kept thousands in the town whose carcasses went into the great
pits by cartloads. De Foe.

2. The living body; -- now commonly used in contempt or ridicule. "To
pamper his own carcass." South.
Lovely her face; was ne'er so fair a creature. For earthly carcass
had a heavenly feature. Oldham.

3. The abandoned and decaying remains of some bulky and once comely
thing, as a ship; the skeleton, or the uncovered or unfinished frame,
of a thing.
A rotten carcass of a boat. Shak.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: A hollow case or shell, filled with combustibles, to be thrown
from a mortar or howitzer, to set fire to buldings, ships, etc.
A discharge of carcasses and bombshells. W. Iving.

CARCAVELHOS
Car`ca*vel"hos, n.

Defn: A sweet wine. See Calcavella.

CARCELAGE
Car"ce*lage, n. Etym: [LL. carcelladium, carceragium, fr. L. carcer
prison.]

Defn: Prison fees. [Obs.]

CARCEL LAMP
Car"cel lamp`. Etym: [Named after Carcel, the inventor.]

Defn: A French mechanical lamp, for lighthouses, in which a
superbundance of oil is pumped to the wick tube by clockwork.

CARCERAL
Car"cer*al, a. Etym: [L. carceralis, fr. carcer prison.]

Defn: Belonging a prison. [R.] Foxe.

CARCINOLOGICAL
Car`ci*no*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to carcinology.

CARCINOLOGY
Car`ci*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The depertment of zoölogy which treats of the Crustacea
(lobsters, crabs, etc.); -- called also malacostracology and
crustaceology.

CARCINOMA
Car`ci*no"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A cancer. By some medical writers, the term is applied to an
indolent tumor. See Cancer. Dunglison.

CARCINOMATOUS
Car`ci*nom"a*tous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to carcinoma.

CARCINOSYS
Car`ci*no"sys, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: The affection of the system with cancer.

CARD
Card, n. Etym: [F. carte, fr. L. charta paper, Gr. Chart.]

1. A piece of pasteboard, or thick paper, blank or prepared for
various uses; as, a playing card; a visiting card; a card of
invitation; pl. a game played with cards.
Our first cards were to Carabas House. Thackeray.

2. A published note, containing a brief statement, explanation,
request, expression of thanks, or the like; as, to put a card in the
newspapers. Also, a printed programme, and (fig.), an attraction or
inducement; as, this will be a good card for the last day of the
fair.

3. A paper on which the points of the compass are marked; the dial or
face of the mariner's compass.
All the quartere that they know I' the shipman's card. Shak.

4. (Weaving)

Defn: A perforated pasteboard or sheet-metal plate for warp threads,
making part of the Jacquard apparatus of a loom. See Jacquard.

5. An indicator card. See under Indicator. Business card, a card on
which is printed an advertisement or business address.
 -- Card basket (a) A basket to hold visiting cards left by callers.
(b) A basket made of cardboard.
 -- Card catalogue. See Catalogue.
 -- Card rack, a rack or frame for holding and displaying business or
visiting card.
 -- Card table, a table for use inplaying cards, esp. one having a
leaf which folds over.
 -- On the cards, likely to happen; foretold and expected but not yet
brought to pass; -- a phrase of fortune tellers that has come into
common use; also, according to the programme.
 -- Playing card, cards used in playing games; specifically, the
cards cards used playing which and other games of chance, and having
each pack divided onto four kinds or suits called hearts, diamonds,
clubs, and spades. The full or whist pack contains fifty-two cards.
 -- To have the cards in one's own hands, to have the winning cards;
to have the means of success in an undertaking.
 -- To play one's cards well, to make no errors; to act shrewdly.
 -- To play snow one's cards, to expose one's plants to rivals or
foes.
 -- To speak by the card, to speak from information and definitely,
not by guess as in telling a ship's bearing by the compass card.
 -- Visiting card, a small card bearing the name, and sometimes the
address, of the person presenting it.

CARD
Card, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Carded; p. pr. & vb. n. Carding.]

Defn: To play at cards; to game. Johnson.

CARD
Card, n. Etym: [F. carde teasel, the head of a thistle, card, from L.
carduus, cardus, thistle, fr. carere to card.]

1. An instrument for disentangling and arranging the fibers of
cotton, wool, flax, etc.; or for cleaning and smoothing the hair of
animals; -- usually consisting of bent wire teeth set closely in rows
in a thick piece of leather fastened to a back.

2. A roll or sliver of fiber (as of wool) delivered from a carding
machine. Card clothing, strips of wire-toothed card used for covering
the cylinders of carding machines.

CARD
Card, v. t.

1. To comb with a card; to cleanse or disentangle by carding; as, to
card wool; to card a horse.
These card the short comb the longer flakes. Dyer.

2. To clean or clear, as if by using a card. [Obs.]
This book [must] be carded and purged. T. Shelton.

3. To mix or mingle, as with an inferior or weaker article. [Obs.]
You card your beer, if you guests being to be drunk.
 -- half small, half strong. Greene.

Note: In the manufacture of wool, cotton, etc., the process of
carding disentangles and collects together all the fibers, of
whatever length, and thus differs from combing, in which the longer
fibers only are collected, while the short straple is combed away.
See Combing.

CARDAMINE
Car"da*mine, n. Etym: [L. cardamina, Gr. cardamine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of cruciferous plants, containing the lady's-smock,
cuckooflower, bitter cress, meadow cress, etc.

CARDAMOM
Car"da*mom, n. Etym: [L. cardamonun, Gr.

1. The aromatic fruit, or capsule with its seeds, of several plants
of the Ginger family growing in the East Indies and elsewhere, and
much used as a condiment, and in medicine.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant which prduces cardamoms, esp. Elettaria Cardamomum and
several of Amommum.

CARDBOARD
Card"board, n.

Defn: A stiff compact pasteboard of various qualities, for making
cards, etc., often having a polished surface.

CARDCASE
Card"case`, n.

Defn: A case for visiting cards.

CARDECU
Car"de*cu, n. Etym: [Corrupt, from F. quart d'écu.]

Defn: A quarter of a crown. [Obs.]
The bunch of them were not worth a cardecu. Sir W. Scott.

CARDER
Card"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which cards wool flax, etc. Shak.

CARDIA
Car"di*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)
(a) The heart.
(b) The anterior or cardiac orifice of the stomach, where the
esophagus enters it.

CARDIAC
Car"di*ac, a. Etym: [L. cardiacus, Gr. , fr. cardiaque.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, resembling, or hear the heart; as, the cardiac
arteries; the cardiac, or left, end of the stomach.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Exciting action in the heart, through the medium of the
stomach; cordial; stimulant. Cardiac passion (Med.) cardialgia;
heartburn. [Archaic] -- Cardiac wheel. (Mach.) See Heart wheel.

CARDIAC
Car"di*ac n. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine which excites action in the stomach; a cardial.

CARDIACAL
Car*di"a*cal, a.

Defn: Cardiac.

CARDIACLE
Car"di*a*cle, n.

Defn: A pain about the heart. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CARDIAGRAPH
Car"di*a*graph, n.

Defn: See Cardiograph.

CARDIALGLA; CARDIALGY
Car`di*al"gl*a, Car"di*al`gy, n. Etym: [NL. cardialgia, fr. Gr.
cardialgie.] (Med.)

Defn: A burning or gnawing pain, or feeling of distress, referred to
the region of the heart, accompanied with cardisc palpitation;
heartburn. It is usually a symptom of indigestion.

CARDIGAN JACKET
Car"di*gan jack`et. Etym: [From the Earl of Cardigan, who was famous
in the Crimean campaign of 1854-55.]

Defn: A warm jacket of knit worsted with or without sleeves.

CARDINAL
Car"di*nal, a. Etym: [L. cardinalis, fr. cardo the hing of a door,
that on which a thing turns or depends: cf. F. cardinal.]

Defn: Of fundamental importance; preëminet; superior; chief;
principal.
The cardinal intersections of the zodiac. Sir T. Browne.
Impudence is now a cardinal virtue. Drayton.
But cardinal sins, and hollow hearts, I fear ye. Shak.
Cardinal numbers, the numbers one, two, three, etc., in distinction
from first, second, third, etc., which are called ordinal numbers.
 -- Cardinal points (a) (Geol.) The four principal points of the
compass, or intersections of the horizon with the meridian and the
prime vertical circle, north, south east, and west. (b) (Astrol.) The
rising and setting of the sun, the zenith and nadir.
 -- Cardinal signs (Astron.) Aries, Lidra, Cancer, and Capricorn.
 -- Cardinal teeth (Zoöl.), the central teeth of bivalve shell. See
Bivalve.
 -- Cardinal veins (Anat.), the veins in vertebrate embryos, which
run each side of the vertebral column and returm the blood to the
heart. They remain through life in some fishes.
 -- Cardinal virtues, preëminent virtues; among the ancients,
prudence, justice, temperance, and fortitude.
 -- Cardinal winds, winds which blow from the cardinal points due
north, south, east, or west.

CARDINAL
Car"di*nal, n. Etym: [F. carinal, It. cardinale, LL. cardimalis
(ecclesiæ Romanæ). See Cardinal, a.]

Defn: 1. (R.C.Ch.) One of the ecclesiastical prince who constitute
the pope's council, or the sacred college.
The clerics of the supreme Chair are called Cardinals, as undoubtedly
adhering more nearly to the hinge by which all things are moved. Pope
Leo IX.

Note: The cardinals are appointed by the pope. Since the time of
Sixtus V., their number can never exceed seventy (six of episcopal
rank, fifty priests, fourteen deacons), and the number of cardinal
priests and deacons is seldom full. When the papel chair is vacant a
pope is elected by the college of cardinals from among themselves.
The cardinals take procedence of all dignitaries except the pope. The
principal parts of a cardinal's costume are a red cassock, a rochet,
a short purple mantle, and a red hat with a small crown and broad,
brim, with cards and tessels of a special pattern hanging from it.

2. A woman's short cloak with a hood.
Where's your cardinal! Make haste. Lloyd.

3. Mulled red wine. Hotten.

Cardinal bird, or Cardinal grosbeak (Zoöl.), an American song bird
(Cardinalis cardinalis, or C. Virginianus), of the family
Fringillidæ, or finches having a bright red plumage, and a high,
pointed crest on its head. The males have loud and musical notes
resembling those of a fife. Other related species are also called
cardinal birds.
 -- Cardinal flower (Bot.), an herbaceous plant (Lobelia cardinalis)
bearing brilliant red flowers of much beauty.
 -- Cardinal red, color like that of a cardinal's cassock, hat, etc.;
a bright red, darket than scarlet, and between scarlet and crimson.

CARDINALATE
Car"di*nal*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cardinalat, LL. cardinalatus.]

Defn: The office, rank, or dignity of a cardinal.

CARDINALIZE
Car"di*nal*ize, v. t.

Defn: To exalt to the office of a cardinal. Sheldon.

CARDINALSHIP
Car"di*nal*ship, n.

Defn: The condition, dignity, of office of a cardinal

CARDING
Card"ing, a.

1. The act or process of preparing staple for spinning, etc.,
bycarding it. See the Note under Card, v. t.

2. A roll of wool or other fiber as it comes from the carding
machine. Carding engine, Carding machine, a machine for carding
cotton, wool, or other fiber, by subjecting it to the action of
cylinders, or drum covered with wire-toothed cards, revoling nearly
in contact with each other, at different rates of speed, or in
opposite directions, The staple issues in soft sheets, or in slender
rolls called sivers.

CARDIOGRAM
Car"di*o*gram`, n. [Gr.  heart + -gram.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The curve or tracing made by a cardiograph.

CARDIOGRAPH
Car"di*o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.] (Med.)

Defn: An instrument which, when placed in contact with the chest,
will register graphically the comparative duration and intensity of
the heart's movements.

CARDIOGRAPHIC
Car`di*o*graph"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or produced by, a cardiograph.

CARDIOGRAPHY
Car`di*og"ra*phy, n.

1. Description of the heart.

2.  (Physiol.) Examination by the cardiograph.

CARDIOID
Car"di*oid, n. Etym: [Gr. ( (Math.)

Defn: An algebraic curve, so called from its resemblance to a heart.

CARDIOINHIBITORY
Car`di*o*in*hib"i*to*ry, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Checking or arresting the heart's action.

CARDIOLGY
Car`di*ol"*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -ology.]

Defn: The science which treats of the heart and its functions.

CARDIOMETRY
Car`di*om"e*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -metry.] (Med.)

Defn: Measurement of the heart, as by percussion or auscultation.

CARDIOSCLEROSIS
Car"di*o*scle*ro"sis, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  heart + sclerosis.]

Defn: Induration of the heart, caused by development of fibrous
tissue in the cardiac muscle.

CARDIOSPHYGMOGRAPH
Car`di*o*sphyg"mo*graph, n.

Defn: A combination of cardiograph and shygmograph.

CARDITIS
Car*di"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis: cf. F. cardile.] (Med)

Defn: Inflammation of the fleshy or muscular substance of the heart.
See Endocardris and Pericarditis. Dunglison.

CARDO
Car"do, n.; pl. Cardies.) Etym: [L., a hinge.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The basal joint of the maxilla in insects.
(b) The hinge of a bivalve shell.

CARDOL
Car"dol, n. Etym: [NL. Anacardium generic name of the cashew + L.
oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow oil liquid, extracted from the shell of the cashew
nut.

CARDOON
Car*doon", n. Etym: [F. cardon. The same word as F. cardon thistle,
fr. L. carduus, cardus, LL. cardo. See 3d Card.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large herbaceos plant (Cynara Cardunculus) related to the
artichoke; -- used in cookery and as a sald.

CARE
Care, n. Etym: [AS. caru, cearu; akin to OS. kara sorrow Goth. kara
lament, and to Gr. . Not akin to cure. Cf. Chary.]

1. A burdensome sense of responsibility; trouble caused by onerous
duties; anxiety; concern; solicitude.
Care keeps his wath in every old man's eye, And where care lodges,
sleep will never lie. Shak.

2. Charge, oversight, or management, implying responsibility for
safety and prosperity.
The care of all the churches. 2 Car. xi. 28
Him thy care must be to find. Milton.
Perlexed with a thousand cares. Shak.

3. Attention or heed; caution; regard; heedfulness; watchfulness; as,
take care; have a care.
I thank thee for thy care and honest pains. Shak.

4. The object of watchful attention or anxiety.
Right sorrowfully mourning her bereaved cares. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- Anxiety; solicitude; concern; caution; regard; management;
direction; oversight.
 -- Care, Anxiety, Solicitude, Concern. These words express mental
pain in different degress. Care belongs primarily to the intellect,
and becomes painful from overburdened thought. Anxiety denotes a
state of distressing uneasiness fron the dread of evil. Solicitude
expresses the same feeling in a diminished dagree. Concern is opposed
to indifference, and implies exercise of anxious thought more or less
intense. We are careful about the means, solicitous and anxious about
the end; we are solicitous to obtain a good, axious to avoid an evil.

CARE
Care, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cared; p. pr. & vb. n. Caring.] Etym: [AS.
cearian. See Care, n.]

Defn: To be anxious or solictous; to be concerned; to have regard or
interest; -- sometimes followed by an objective of measure.
I would not care a pin, if the other three were in. Shak.
Master, carest thou not that we perish Mark. iv. 38.
To care for. (a) To have under watchful attention; to take care of.
(b) To have regard or affection for; to like or love.
He cared not for the affection of the house. Tennyson.

CAREEN
Ca*reen", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Careened; p. pr. & vb. n. Careening.]
Etym: [OF. cariner, F. caréner, fr. OF. carène, the bottom of a ship,
keel, fr. L. carina.] (Naut.)

Defn: To cause (a vessel) to lean over so that she floats on one
side, leaving the other side out of water and accessible for repairs
below the water line; to case to be off the keel.

CAREEN
Ca*reen" (, v. i.

Defn: To incline to one side, or lie over, as a ship when sailing on
a wind; to be off the keel.

CAREENAGE
Ca*reen"age, n. Etym: [Cf. F. carénage.] (Naut.)
(a) Expense of careening ships.
(b) A place for careening.

CAREER
Ca*reer", n. Etym: [F. carrière race course, high road, street, fr.
L. carrus wagon. See Car.]

1. A race course: the ground run over.
To go back again the same career. Sir P. Sidney.

2. A running; full speed; a rapid course.
When a horse is running in his full career. Wilkins.

3. General course of action or conduct in life, or in a particular
part or calling in life, or in some special undertaking; usually
applied to course or conduct which is of a pubic character; as,
Washington's career as a soldier.
An impartial view of his whole career. Macaulay.

4. (Falconary)

Defn: The fight of a hawk.

CAREER
Ca*reer", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Careered 3; p. pr. & vb. n. Careering]

Defn: To move or run rapidly.
areering gayly over the curling waves. W. Irving.

CAREFUL
Care"ful, a. Etym: [AS. cearful.]

1. Full of care; anxious; solicitous [Archaic]
Be careful [Rev. Ver. "anxious"] for nothing. Phil. iv. 6.
The careful plowman doubting stands. Milton.

2. Filling with care or colicitube; exposing to concern, anxiety, or
trouble; painful.
The careful cold beinneth for to creep. Spenser.
By Him that raised me to this careful height. Shak.

3. Taking care; gicing good heed; watchful; cautious; provident; not
indifferent heedless, or reckless; -- often follower byof, for, or
the infinitive; as, careful of money; careful to do right.
Thou hast been careful for us with all this care. 2. Kings iv, 13.
What could a careful father more have done Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Anxious; solicitous; provident; thoughtful; cautious;
circumspect; heedful; watchful; vigilant.

CAREFULLY
Care"ful*ly, adv.

Defn: In a careful manner.

CAREFULNESS
Care"ful*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being careful.

CARELESS
Care"less, a. Etym: [AS. cearleás.]

1. Free from care or anxiety. hence, cheerful; light-hearted.
Spenser.
Sleep she as sound as careless infancy. Shak.

2. Having no care; not taking ordinary or proper care; negligent;
unconcerned; heedless; inattentive; unmindful; regardless.
My brother was too careless of his charge. Shak.
He grew careless of himself. Steele.

3. Without thought or purpose; without due care; without attention to
rule or system; unstudied; inconsiderate; spontaneouse; rash; as, a
careless throw; a careless expression.
He framed the careless rhyme. Beatie.

4. Not receiving care; uncared for. [R.]
Their many wounds and careless hatms. Spemser.

Syn.
 -- Negligent; heedless; thoughtless; unthinking; inattentive;
incautious; remiss; forgetful; regardless; inconsiderate; listless.

CARELESSLY
Care"less*ly, adv.

Defn: In a careless manner.

CARELESSNESS
Care"less*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being careless; heedlessness;
negligenece; inattention.

CARENE
Ca*rene", n. Etym: [LL. carena, corrupted fr. quarentena. See
Quarantine.] (Ecol.)

Defn: A fast of forty days on bread and water. [Obs.]

CARESS
Ca*ress", n. Etym: [F. caresse, It. carezza, LL. caritia dearness,
fr. L. carus dear. See Charity.]

Defn: An act of endearment; any act or expression of affection; an
embracing, or touching, with tenderness.
Wooed her with his soft caresses. Langfellow.
He exerted himself to win by indulgence and caresses the hearts of
all who were under his command. Macaulay.

CARESS
Ca*ress", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Caressed; p. pr. & vb. n. Caressing.]
Etym: [F. caresser, fr. It. carezzare, fr. carezza caress. See
Caress., n.]

Defn: To treat with tokens of fondness, affection, or kindness; to
touch or speak to in a loving or endearing manner; to fondle.
The lady caresses the rough bloodhoun. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- To foundle; embrace; pet; coddle; court; flatter.
 -- Caress, Fondle. "We caress by words or actions; we fondle by
actions only." Crabb.

CARESSINGLY
Ca*ress"ing*ly, ad.

Defn: In caressing manner.

CARET
Ca"ret, n. Etym: [L. caret there is wanting, fr. carere to want.]

Defn: A mark [^] used by writers and proof readers to indicate that
something is interlined above, or inserted in the margin, which
belongs in the place marked by the caret.

CARET
Ca`ret", n. Etym: [F., a species of tortoise.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hawkbill turtle. See Hawkbill.

CARETUNED
Care"*tuned, a.

Defn: Weary; mournful. Shak.

CARE-TUNED
Care"-tuned, a.

Defn: Weary; mournful.  Shak.

CAREWORN
Care"worn`, a.

Defn: Worn or burdened with care; as, careworn look or face.

CAREX
Ca"rex, n. Etym: [L., sedge.] (Bot.)

Defn: A numerous and widely distributed genus of perennial herbaceous
plants of the order Cypreaceæ; the sedges.

CARF
Carf,

Defn: pret. of Carve. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CARGASON
Car"ga*son, n. Etym: [F. cargaison, Sp. cargazon, LL. cargare to
load. See rgo.]

Defn: A cargo. [Obs.]

CARGO
Car"go, n.; pl. Cargoes. Etym: [Sp. cargo, carga, burden, load, from
cargar to load, from cargar to load, charge, See Charge.]

Defn: The lading or freight of a ship or other vessel; the goods,
merchandise, or whatever is conveyed in a vessel or boat; load;
freight.
Cargoes of food or clothing. E. Everett.

Note: The term cargo, in law, is usually applied to goods only, and
not to live animals or persons. Burill.

CARGOOSE
Car"goose`, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. Gael. & Ir. cir, cior (pronounced
kir, kior), crest, comb + E. goose. Cf. Crebe.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of grebe (Podiceps crisratus); the crested grebe.

CARIAMA
Ça"ri*a"ma, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, long-legged South American bird (Dicholophus
cristatus) which preys upon snakes, etc. See Seriema.

CARIB
Car"ib, n.; pl. Caries. Etym: [See Cannibal.] (Ethol.)

Defn: A native of the Caribbee islands or the coaste of the Caribbean
sea; esp., one of a tribe of Indians inhabiting a region of South
America, north of the Amazon, and formerly most of the West India
islands.

CARIBBEAN; CARIBBEE
Car`ib*be"an, Car`ib*bee, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Caribs, to their islands (the eastern
and southern West Indies), or to the sea (called the Caribbean sa)
lying between those islands and Central America.

CARIBBEE
Car"ib*bee, n.

Defn: A Carib.

CARIBE
Ca*ri"be, n. Etym: [Sp. a cannibal.] (Zoöl).

Defn: A south American fresh water fish of the genus Serrasalmo of
many species, remakable for its voracity. When numerous they attack
man or beast, often with fatal results.

CARIBOU
Car"i*bou, n. Etym: [Canadian French.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American reindeer, especially the common or woodland
species (Rangifer Caribou). Barren Ground caribou. See under Barren.
 -- Woodland caribou, the common reindeer (Rangifer Caribou) of the
northern forests of America.

CARICATURE
Car"i*ca*ture, n. Etym: [It. caricatura, fr. caricare to charge,
overload, exaggerate. See Charge, v. t.]

1. An exaggeration, or distortion by exaggeration, of parts or
characteristics, as in a picture.

2. A picture or other figure or description in which the
peculiarities of a person or thing are so exaggerated as to appear
ridiculous; a burlesque; a parody. [Formerly written caricatura.]
The truest likeness of the prince of French literature will be the
one that has most of the look of a caricature. I. Taylor.
A grotesque caricature of virtue. Macaulay.

CARICATURE
Car"i*ca*ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Caricatured; p. pr. & vb. n.
Caricaturing.]

Defn: To make or draw a caricature of; to represent with ridiculous
exaggeration; to burlesque.
He could draw an ill face, or caricature a good one, with a masterly
hand. Lord Lyttelton.

CARICATURIST
Car"i*ca*tu`rist, n.

Defn: One who caricatures.

CARICOUS
Car"i*cous, a. Etym: [L. carica a kind of dry fig.]

Defn: Of the shape of a fig; as, a caricous tumor. Graig.

CARIES
Ca"ri*es, n.Etym: [L., decay.] (Med.)

Defn: Ulceration of bone; a process in which bone disintegrates and
is carried away piecemeal, as distinguished from necrosis, in which
it dies in masses.

CARILLON
Car"il*lon, n. Etym: [F. carillon a chime of bells, originally
consisting of four bells, as if fr.. (assumed) L. quadrilio, fr.
quatuer four.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A chime of bells diatonically tuned, played by clockwork or by
finger keys.

2. A tune adapted to be played by musical bells.

CARINA
Ca*ri"na, n. Etym: [L., keel.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A keel.
(a) That part of a papilionaceous flower, consisting of two petals,
commonly united, which incloses the organs of fructification.
(b) A longitudinal ridge or projection like the keel of a boat.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The keel of the breastbone of birds.

CARINARIA
Car`i*na"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. carina keel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of oceanic heteropod Mollusca, having a thin, glassy,
bonnet-shaped shell, which covers only the nucleus and gills.

CARINATAE
Car`i*na"tæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., Fem. pl. fr. L. carinatus. See
Carinate.]

Defn: A grand division of birds, including all existing flying birds;
-- So called from the carina or keel on the breastbone.

CARINATE; CARINATED
Car"i*nate, Car"i*na`ted a. Etym: [L. carinatus, fr. carina keel.]

Defn: Shaped like the keel or prow of a ship; having a carina or
keel; as, a carinate calyx or leaf; a carinate sternum (of a bird).

CARIOLE
Car"i*ole, n. Etym: [F. carriole, dim. fr. L. carrus. See Car, and
Carryall.]
(a) A small, light, open one-horse carriage.
(b) A covered cart.
(c) A kind of calash. See Carryall.

CARIOPSIS
Car"i*op"sis, n.

Defn: See Caryopsis.

CARIOSITY
Ca`ri*os"i*ty, n. (Med.)

Defn: Caries.

CARIOUS
Ca"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. cariosus, fr. caries dacay.]

Defn: Affected with caries; decaying; as, a carious tooth.

CARK
Cark, n. Etym: [OE. cark, fr. a dialectic form of F. charge; cf. W.
carc anxiety, care, Arm karg charge, burden. See Charge, and cf.
Cargo.]

Defn: A noxious or corroding care; solicitude; worry. [Archaic.]
His heavy head, devoid of careful cark. Spenser.
Fling cark and care aside. Motherwell.
Ereedom from the cares of money and the cark of fashion. R. D.
Blackmore.

CARK
Cark, v. i.

Defn: To be careful, anxious, solicitous, or troubles in mind; to
worry or grieve. [R.] Beau. & fl.

CARK
Cark, v. t.

Defn: To vex; to worry; to make by anxious care or worry. [R.]
Nor can a man, independently . . . of God's blessing, care and cark
himself one penny richer. South.

CARKANET
Car"ka*net, n.

Defn: A carcanet. Southey.

CARKING
Cark"ing, a.

Defn: Distressing; worrying; perplexing; corroding; as, carking
cares.

CARL
Carl, n. Etym: [Icel, karl a male, a man; akin to AS. ceorl, OHG.
charal, G. kerl fellow. See Churl.] [Written also carle.]

1. A rude, rustic man; a churl.
The miller was a stout carl. Chaucer.

2. Large stalks of hemp which bear the seed; -- called also carl
hemp.

3. pl.

Defn: A kind of food. See citation, below.
Caring or carl are gray steeped in water and fried the next day in
butter or fat. They are eaten on the second Sunday before Easter,
formerly called Carl Sunday. Robinson's Whitby Glossary (1875).

CARLIN
Car"lin, n. Etym: [Dim., fr. carl male.]

Defn: An old woman. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

CARLINE; CAROLINE
Car"line, Car"o*line, n. Etym: [F. carin; cf. It. carlino; -- so
called from Carlo (Charles) VI. of Naples.]

Defn: A silver coin once current in some parts of Italy, worth about
seven cents. Simmonds.

CARLINE; CARLING
Car"line, Car"ling n. Etym: [Cf. F. carlingur, Sp. Pg., & It.
carlinga.] (Naut.)

Defn: A short timber running lengthwise of a ship, from one
transverse desk beam to another; also, one of the cross timbers that
strengthen a hath; -- usually in pl.

CARLINE THISTLE
Car"line this`tle. Etym: [F. carline, It., Sp., & Pg., carline, Said
to be so called from the Emperor Charlemagne, whose army is reputed
to have used it as a remedy for pestilence.] (Bot.)

Defn: A prickly plant of the genus Carlina (C. vulgaris), found in
Europe and Asia.

CARLINGS
Car"lings, n. pl.

Defn: Same as Carl, 3. Carling Sunday, a Sunday in Lent when carls
are eaten. In some parts of England, Passion Sunday. See Carl, 4.

CARLIST
Car"list, n.

Defn: A parisan of Charles X. Of France, or of Dod Carlos of Spain.

CARLOCK
Car"lock, n. Etym: [F. carlock, fr. Russ. Karlúk'.]

Defn: A sort of Russian isinglass, made from the air bladder of the
sturgeon, and used in clarifying wine.

CARLOT
Car"lot, n. Etym: [From Carl.]

Defn: A churl; a boor; a peasant or countryman. [Obs.] Shak.

CARLOVINGIAN
Car`lo*vin"gi*an, a. Etym: [F. Carlovingen.]

Defn: Pertaining to, founded by, of descended from, Charlemagne; as,
the Carlovingian race of kings.

CARMAGNOLE
Car`ma`gnole", n. Etym: [F.]

1. A popular or Red Rebublican song and dance, of the time of the
first French Revolution.
They danced and yelled the carmagnole. Compton Reade.

2. A bombastic report from the French armies.

CARMAN
Car"man, n.; pl. Carmen (

Defn: A man whose employment is to drive, or to convey goods in, a
car or car.

CARMELITE; CARMELIN
Car"mel*ite, Car"mel*in a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the order of Carmelites.

CARMELITE
Car"mel*ite, n.

1. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A friar of a mendicant order (the Order of Our Lady of Mount
Carmel) established on Mount Carmel, in Syria, in the twelfth
century; a White Friar.

2. A nun of the Order of Our lady of Mount Carmel.

CAR MILE
Car mile. (Railroads)

Defn: A mile traveled by a single car, taken as a unit of
computation, as in computing the average travel of each car of a
system during a given period.

CAR MILEAGE
Car mileage. (Railroads)
 (a) Car miles collectively.
 (b) The amount paid by one road the use of cars of another road.

CARMINATED
Car"mi*na`ted, a.

Defn: Of, relating to, or mixed with, carmine; as, carminated lake.
Tomlinson.

CARMINATIVE
Car*min"ative, a. Etym: [NL. carminativus (carminare to card hence to
cleanse, fr. carmen a card for freeing wool or flax from the coarser
parts, and from extraneous matter: cf. F. carminatif.]

Defn: Expelling wind from the body; warning; antispasmodic.
"Carmenative hot seeds." Dunglison.

CARMINATIVE
Car*min"a*tive, n.

Defn: A substance, esp. an aromatic, which tends to expel wind from
the alimentary canal, or to relieve colic, griping, or flatulence.

CARMINE
Car"mine, n. Etym: [F. carmin (cf. Sp. carmin, It. carminio), contr.
from LL. carmesinus purple color. See Crimson.]

1. A rich red or crimson color with a shade of purple.

2. A beautiful pigment, or a lake, of this color, prepared from
cochineal, and used in miniature painting.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: The essential coloring principle of cochineal, extracted as a
purple-red amorphous mass. It is a glucoside and possesses acid
properties; -- hence called also carminic acid. Carmine red (Chem.),
a coloring matter obtained from carmine as a purple-red substance,
and probably allied to the phthaleïns.

CARMINIC
Car*min"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or derived from, carmine. Carminic acid.
Same as Carmine, 3.

CARMOT
Car"mot, n. (Alchemy)

Defn: The matter of which the philosopher's stone was believed to be
composed.

CARNAGE
Car"nage, n. Etym: [F. carnage, LL. carnaticum tribute of animals,
flesh of animals, fr. L. caro, carnis, flesh. See Carnal.]

1. Flesh of slain animals or men.
A miltitude of dogs came to feast on the carnage. Macaulay.

2. Great destruction of life, as in battle; bloodshed; slaughter;
massacre; murder; havoc.
The more fearful carnage of the Bloody Circuit. Macaulay.

CARNAL
Car"nal, a. Etym: [L. carnalis, fr. caro, carnis, flesh; akin to Gr.
kravya; cf. F. charnel, Of. also carnel. Cf. Charnel.]

1. Of or pertaining to the body or is appetites; animal; fleshly;
sensual; given to sensual indulgence; lustful; human or worldly as
opposed to spiritual.
For ye are yet carnal. 1 Car. iii. 3.
Not sunk in carnal pleasure. Milton
rnal desires after miracles. Trench.

2. Flesh-devouring; cruel; ravenous; bloody. [Obs.]
This carnal cur Preys on the issue of his mother's body. Shak.
Carnal knowledge, sexual intercourse; -- used especially of an
unlawful act on the part of the man.

CARNALISM
Car"nal*ism, n.

Defn: The state of being carnal; carnality; sensualism. [R.]

CARNALIST
Car"nal*ist, n.

Defn: A sensualist. Burton.

CARNALITY
Car*nal"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. carnalitas.]

Defn: The state of being carnal; fleshly lust, or the indulgence of
lust; grossness of mind.
Because of the carnality of their hearts. Tillotson.

CARNALIZE
Car"nal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Carnalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Carnalizing.]

Defn: To make carnal; to debase to carnality.
A sensual and carnalized spirit. John Scott.

CARNALLITE
Car"nal*lite, n. Etym: [G. carnallit, fr. Von Carnall, a Prussian.]
(Min.)

Defn: A hydrous chloride of potassium and magnesium, sometimes found
associated with deposits of rock salt.

CARNALLY
Car"nal*ly, adv.

Defn: According to the flesh, to the world, or to human nature; in a
manner to gratify animal appetites and lusts; sensually.
For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is
life and peace. Rom. viii. 6.

CARNAL-MINDED
Car"nal-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Worldly-minded.

CARNAL-MINDEDNESS
Car"nal-mind"ed*ness, n.

Defn: Grossness of mind.

CARNARY
Car"na*ry, n. Etym: [L. carnarium, fr. caro, carnis, flesh.]

Defn: A vault or crypt in connection with a church, used as a
repository for human bones disintered from their original burial
places; a charnel house.

CARNASSIAL
Car*nas"si*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. carnassier carnivorous, and L. caro,
carnis, flesh.] (Anat.)

Defn: Adapted to eating flesh.
 -- n.

Defn: A carnassial tooth; especially, the last premolar in many
carnivores.

CARNATE
Car"nate, a. Etym: [L. carnatus fleshy.]

Defn: Invested with, or embodied in, flesh.

CARNATION
Car*na"tion, n. Etym: [F. carnation the flesh tints in a painting, It
carnagione, fr. L. carnatio fleshiness, fr. caro, carnis, flesh. See
Carnal.]

1. The natural color of flesh; rosy pink.
Her complexion of the delicate carnation. Ld. Lytton.

2. pl. (Paint.)

Defn: Those parts of a picture in which the human body or any part of
it is represented in full color; the flesh tints.
The flesh tints in painting are termed carnations. Fairholt.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Dianthus (D. Caryophyllus) or pink, having very
beautiful flowers of various colors, esp. white and usually a rich,
spicy scent.

CARNATIONED
Car*na"tioned, a.

Defn: Having a flesh color.

CARNAUBA
Car*nau"ba, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The Brazilian wax palm. See Wax palm.

CARNELIAN
Car*nel"ian, n. Etym: [For carnelian; influenced by L. carneus
fleshy, of flesh, because of its flesh red color. See Cornellan.]
(Min.)

Defn: A variety of chalcedony, of a clear, deep red, flesh red, or
reddish white color. It is moderately hard, capable of a good polish,
and often used for seals.

CARNEOUS
Car"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. carneus, from caro, carnis, flesh.]

Defn: Consisting of, or like, flesh; carnous; fleshy. "Carneous
fibers." Ray.

CARNEY
Car"ney, n. Etym: [Cf. L. carneus flesh.] (Far.)

Defn: A disease of horses, on which the mouth is so furred that the
afflicted animal can not eat.

CARNIC
Car"nic, a. [L. caro, carnis, flesh.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to flesh; specif. (Physiol. Chem.),

Defn: pertaining to or designating a hydroscopic monobasic acid,
C10H15O5N3, obtained as a cleavage product from an acid of muscle
tissue.

CARNIFEX
Car"ni*fex, n. Etym: [L., fr. caro, carnis, flesh + facere to make.]
(Antiq.)

Defn: The public executioner at Rome, who executed persons of the
lowest rank; hence, an executioner or hangman.

CARNIFICATION
Car`ni*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. carnification.]

Defn: The act or process of turning to flesh, or to a substance
resembling flesh.

CARNIFY
Car"ni*fy, v. i. Etym: [LL. carnificare, fr. L.o, carnis, flesh +
facere to make: cf. F. carnifier.]

Defn: To form flesh; to become like flesh. Sir M. Hale.

CARNIN
Car"nin, n. Etym: [L. caro, canis , flesh.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, found in extract of
meat, and related to xanthin.

CARNIVAL
Car"ni*val, n. Etym: [It. carnevale, prob. for older carnelevale,
prop., the putting away of meat; fr. L. caro, carnis, flesh _ levare
to take away, lift up, fr. levis light.]

1. A festival celebrated with merriment and revelry in Roman Gatholic
countries during the week before Lent, esp. at Rome and Naples,
during a few days (three to ten) before Lent, ending with Shrove
Tuesday.
The carnival at Venice is everywhere talked of. Addison.

2. Any merrymaking, feasting, or masquerading, especially when
overstepping the bounds of decorum; a time of riotous excess.
Tennyson.
He saw the lean dogs beneath the wall Hold o'er the dead their
carnival Byron.

CARNIVORA
Car*niv"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., neut. pl. from L. carnivorus. See
Carnivorous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Mammallia including the lion, tiger, wolf bear,
seal, etc. They are adapted by their structure to feed upon flesh,
though some of them, as the bears, also eat vegetable food. The teeth
are large and sharp, suitable for cutting flesh, and the jaws
powerful.

CARNIVORACITY
Car*niv`o*rac"i*ty, n.

Defn: Greediness of appetite for flesh. [Sportive.] Pope.

CARNIVORE
Car`ni*vore, n. Etym: [Cf. F. carnivore.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Carnivora.

CARNIVOROUS
Car*niv"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. carnivorus; caro, carnis, flesh + varare
to devour.]

Defn: Eating or feeding on flesh. The term is applied: (a) to animals
which naturally seek flesh for food, as the tiger, dog, etc.; (b) to
plants which are supposed to absorb animal food; (c) to substances
which destroy animal tissue, as caustics.

CARNOSE; CARNOUS
Car*nose, Car"*nous, a. Etym: [L. carnosus, fr. caro, carnis, flesh:
cf. OF. carneux, F. charneux.]

1. Of a pertaining to flesh; fleshy.
A distinct carnose muscle. Ray.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Of a fleshy consistence; -- applied to succulent leaves, stems,
etc.

CARNOSITY
Car*nos"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. carnosité.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A fleshy excrescence; esp. a small excrescence or fungous
growth. Wiseman.

2. Fleshy substance or quality; fleshy covering.
[Consciences] overgrown with so hard a carnosity. Spelman.
The olives, indeed be very small there, and bigger than capers; yet
commended they are for their carnosity. Holland.

CARNOT'S CYCLE
Car`not's" cy"cle. [After N. L. S. Carnot, French physicist.]
(Thermodynamics)

Defn: An ideal heat-engine cycle in which the working fluid goes
through the following four successive operations: (1) Isothermal
expansion to a desired point; (2) adiabatic expansion to a desired
point; (3) isothermal compression to such a point that (4) adiabatic
compression brings it back to its initial state.

CAROB
Car"ob, n. Etym: [Cf. F. caroube fruit of the carob tree, Sp.
garrobo, al-garrobo, carob tree, fr. Ar. kharrub, Per. Kharnub. Cf.
Clgaroba.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An evergreen leguminous tree (Ceratania Siliqua) found in the
countries bordering the Mediterranean; the St. John's bread; --
called also carob tree.

2. One of the long, sweet, succulent, pods of the carob tree, which
are used as food for animals and sometimes eaten by man; -- called
also St. John's bread, carob bean, and algaroba bean.

CAROCHE
Ca*roche", n. Etym: [OF. carrache, F. carrose from It. carrocio,
carrozza, fr. carro, L. carus. See Car.]

Defn: A kind of pleasure carriage; a coach. [Obs.]
To mount two-wheeled caroches. Butler.

CAROCHED
Ca*roched", a.

Defn: Placed in a caroche. [Obs.]
Beggary rides caroched. Massenger.

CAROIGNE
Car"oigne, n. Etym: [See Carrion.]

Defn: Dead body; carrion. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CAROL
Car"ol, n. Etym: [OF. carole a kind of dance wherein many dance
together, fr. caroler to dance; perh. from Celtic; cf. Armor. koroll,
n., korolla, korolli, v., Ir. car music, turn, circular motion, also
L. choraula a flute player, charus a dance, chorus, choir.]

1. A round dance. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A song of joy, exultation, or mirth; a lay.
The costly feast, the carol, and the dance. Dryden
It was the carol of a bird. Byron.

3. A song of praise of devotion; as, a Christmas or Easter carol.
Heard a carol, mournful, holy. Tennyson.
In the darkness sing your carol of high praise. Keble.

4. Joyful music, as of a song.
I heard the bells on Christmans Day Their old, familiar carol play.
Longfellow.

CAROL
Car"ol, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Caroled, or Carolled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Caroling, or Carolling.]

1. To praise or celebrate in song.
The Shepherds at their festivals Carol her goodness. Milton.

2. To sing, especially with joyful notes.
Hovering awans . . . carol sounds harmonious. Prior.

CAROL
Car"ol, v. i.

Defn: To sing; esp. to sing joyfully; to warble.
And carol of love's high praise. Spenser.
The gray linnets carol from the hill. Beattie.

CAROL; CARROL
Car"ol, Car"rol, n. Etym: [OF. carole a sort of circular space, or
carol.] (Arch.)

Defn: A small closet or inclosure built against a window on the inner
side, to sit in for study. The word was used as late as the 16th
century.
A bay window may thus be called a carol. Parker.

CAROLIN
Car"o*lin, n. Etym: [L. Carolus Charles.]

Defn: A former gold coin of Germany worth nearly five dollars; also,
a gold coin of Sweden worth nearly five dollars.

CAROLINA PINK
Car`o*li"na pink`. (Bot.)

Defn: See Pinkboot.

CAROLINE
Car"o*line, n.

Defn: A coin. See Carline.

CAROLING
Car"ol*ing, n.

Defn: A song of joy or devotion; a singing, as of carols. Coleridge.
Such heavenly notes and carolings. Spenser.

CAROLINIAN
Car`o*lin"i*an, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of north or South Carolina.

CAROLITIC
Car`o*lit"ic, a. (Arch.)

Defn: Adorned with sculptured leaves and branches.

CAROLUS
Car"o*lus, n.; pl. E. Caroluses, L. Caroli. Etym: [L., Charles.]

Defn: An English gold coin of the value of twenty or twenty-three
shillings. It was first struck in the reign of Charles I.
Told down the crowns and Caroluses. Macawlay.

CAROM
Car"om, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupted fr. F. carumboler to carom,
carambolage a carom, carambole the red ball in billiards.]
(Billiards)

Defn: A shot in which the ball struck with the cue comes in contact
with two or more balls on the table; a hitting of two or more balls
with the player's ball. In England it is called cannon.

CAROM
Car"om, v. i. (Billiards)

Defn: To make a carom.

CAROMEL
Car"o*mel, n.

Defn: See Caramel.

CAROTEEL
Car`o*teel", n. (Com.)

Defn: A tierce or cask for dried fruits, etc., usually about 700 lbs.
Simmonds.

CAROTIC
Ca*rot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Carotid.]

1. Of or pertaining to stupor; as, a carotic state.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Carotid; as, the carotic arteries.

CAROTID
Ca*rot"id, n. Etym: [Gr. carotide. The early Greeks believed that
these arteries in some way caused drowsiness.] (Anat.)

Defn: One of the two main arteries of the neck, by which blood is
conveyed from the aorta to the head.

Note: [See Illust. of Aorta.]

CAROTID; CAROTIDAL
Ca*rot"id, Ca*rot"id*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or near, the carotids or one of them; as, the
carotid gland.

CAROTIN
Ca*ro"tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A red crystallizable tasteless substance, extracted from the
carrot.

CAROTTE
Ca`rotte", n. [F., prop., carrot.]

Defn: A cylindrical roll of tobacco; as, a carotte of perique.

CAROUSAL
Ca*rous"al, n. Etym: [See Carouse, but also cf. F. carrousel tilt.]

Defn: A jovial feast or festival; a drunken revel; a carouse.
The swains were preparing for a carousal. Sterne.

Syn.
 -- Banquet; revel; orgie; carouse. See Feast.

CAROUSE
Ca*rouse", n. Etym: [F. carrousse, earlier carous, fr. G. garaus
finishing stroke, the emptying of the cup in drinking a health; gar
entirely + aus out. See Yare, and Out.]

1. A large draught of liguor. [Obs.] "A full carouse of sack." Sir J.
Davies.
Drink carouses to the next day's fate. Shak.

2. A drinking match; a carousal.
The early feast and late carouse. Pope.

CAROUSE
Ca*rouse", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caroused; p. pr. & vb. n. Carousing.]

Defn: To drink deeply or freely in compliment; to take in a carousal;
to engage in drunken revels.
He had been aboard, carousing to his mates. Shak.

CAROUSE
Ca*rouse" v. t.

Defn: To drink up; to drain; to drink freely or jovially. [Archaic]
Guests carouse the sparkling tears of the rich grape. Denham.
Egypt's wanton queen, Carousing gems, herself dissolved in love.
Young.

CAROUSER
Ca*rous"er, n.

Defn: One who carouses; a reveler.

CAROUSING
Ca*rous"ing, a.

Defn: That carouses; relating to a carouse.

CAROUSINGLY
Ca*rous"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a carouser.

CARP
Carp, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Carped; p. pr. & vb. n. Carping.] Etym:
[OE. carpen to say, speak; from Scand. (cf. Icel. karpa to boast),
but influenced later by L. carpere to pluck, calumniate.]

1. To talk; to speak; to prattle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To find fault; to cavil; to censure words or actions without
reason or ill-naturedly; -- usually followed by at.
Carping and caviling at faults of manner. Blackw. Mag.
And at my actions carp or catch. Herbert.

CARP
Carp, v. t.

1. To say; to tell. [Obs.]

2. To find fault with; to censure. [Obs.] Dryden.

CARP
Carp, n.; pl. Carp, formerly Carps. Etym: [Cf. Icel. karfi, Dan.
karpe, Sw. karp, OHG. charpho, G. karpfen, F. carpe, LL. carpa.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A fresh-water herbivorous fish (Cyprinus carpio.). Several
other species of Cyprinus, Catla, and Carassius are called carp. See
Cruclan carp.

Note: The carp was originally from Asia, whence it was early
introduced into Europe, where it is extensively reared in artificial
ponds. Within a few years it has been introduced into America, and
widely distributed by the government. Domestication has produced
several varieties, as the leather carp, which is nearly or quite
destitute of scales, and the mirror carp, which has only a few large
scales. Intermediate varieties occur. Carp louse (Zoöl.), a small
crustacean, of the genus Argulus, parasitic on carp and allied
fishes. See Branchiura.
 -- Carp mullet (Zoöl.), a fish (Moxostoma carpio) of the Ohio River
and Great Lakes, allied to the suckers.
 -- Carp sucker (Zoöl.), a name given to several species of fresh-
water fishes of the genus Carpiodes in the United States; -- called
also quillback.

CARPAL
Car"pal, a. Etym: [From Carpus.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the carpus, or wrist.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus; a carpale. Carpal
angle (Zoöl.), the angle at the last joint of the folded wing of a
bird.

CARPALE
Car*pa"le, n.; pl. Carpalia. Etym: [NL., fr. E. carpus.] (Anat.)

Defn: One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus; esp. one of the
series articulating with the metacarpals.

CARPATHIAN
Car*pa"thi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a range of mountains in Austro-Hungary,
called the Carpathians, which partially inclose Hungary on the north,
east, and south.

CARPEL; CARPELLUM
Car"pel, Car*pel"lum, n. Etym: [NL. carpellum, fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A simple pistil or single-celled ovary or seed vessel, or one
of the parts of a compound pistil, ovary, or seed vessel. See Illust
of Carpaphore.

CARPELLARY
Car"pel*la"ry, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, forming, or containing carpels.

CARPENTER
Car"pen*ter, n. Etym: [OF. carpentier, F. charpentier, LL.
carpentarius, fr. L. carpentum wagon, carriage.]

Defn: An artificer who works in timber; a framer and builder of
houses, ships, etc.

Syn.
 -- Carpenter, Joiner. The carpenter frames and puts together roofs,
partitions, floors, and other structural parts of a building. The
joiner Supplies stairs, doors shutters, mantelpieces, cupboards, and
other parts necessary to finishing the building. In America the two
trades are commonly united. Carpenter ant (Zoöl.), any species of ant
which gnaws galleries in the wood of trees and constructs its nests
therein. They usually select dead or somewhat decayed wood. The
common large American species is Formica Pennsylvanica.
 -- Carpenter bee (Zoöl.), a large hymenopterous insect of the genus
Xylocopa; -- so called because it constructs its nest by gnawing long
galleries in sound timber. The common American species is Xylocopa
Virginica.

CARPENTERING
Car"pen*ter*ing, n.

Defn: The occupation or work of a carpenter; the act of workingin
timber; carpentry.

CARPENTRY
Car"pen*try, n. Etym: [F. charpenterie, OF. also carpenterie. See
Carpenter.]

1. The art of cutting, framing, and joining timber, as in the
construction of buildings.

2. An assemblage of pieces of timber connected by being framed
together, as the pieces of a roof, floor, etc.; work done by a
carpenter.

CARPER
Carp"er, n.

Defn: One who carps; a caviler. Shak.

CARPET
Car"pet, n. Etym: [OF. carpite rug, soft of cloth, F. carpette coarse
packing cloth, rug (cf. It. carpita rug, blanket), LL. carpeta,
carpita, woolly cloths, fr. L. carpere to pluck, to card (wool); cf.
Gr. Harvest.]

1. A heavy woven or felted fabric, usually of wool, but also of
cotton, hemp, straw, etc.; esp. a floor covering made in breadths to
be sewed together and nailed to the floor, as distinguished from a
rug or mat; originally, also, a wrought cover for tables.
Tables and beds covered with copes instead of carpets and coverlets.
T. Fuller.

2. A smooth soft covering resembling or suggesting a carpet. "The
grassy carpet of this plain." Shak. Carpet beetle or Carpet bug
(Zoöl.), a small beetle (Anthrenus scrophulariæ), which, in the
larval state, does great damage to carpets and other woolen goods; --
also called buffalo bug.
 -- Carpet knight. (a) A knight who enjoys ease and security, or
luxury, and has not known the hardships of the field; a hero of the
drawing room; an effeminate person. Shak. (b) One made a knight, for
some other than military distinction or service.
 -- Carpet moth (Zoöl.), the larva of an insect which feeds on
carpets and other woolen goods. There are several kinds. Some are the
larvæ of species of Tinea (as T. tapetzella); others of beetles, esp.
Anthrenus.
 -- Carpet snake (Zoöl.), an Australian snake. See Diamond snake,
under Diamond.
 -- Carpet sweeper, an apparatus or device for sweeping carpets.
 -- To be on the carpet, to be under consideration; to be the subject
of deliberation; to be in sight; -- an expression derived from the
use of carpets as table cover.
 -- Brussels carpet. See under Brussels.

CARPET
Car"pet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Carpeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Carpeting.]

Defn: To cover with, or as with, a carpet; to spread with carpets; to
furnish with a carpet or carpets.
Carpeted temples in fashionable squares. E. Everett.

CARPETBAG
Car"pet*bag`, n.

Defn: A portable bag for travelers; -- so called because originally
made of carpet.

CARPETBAGGER
Car"pet*bag"ger, n.

Defn: An adventurer; -- a term of contempt for a Northern man seeking
private gain or political advancement in the southern part of the
United States after the Civil War (1865). [U. S.]

CARPETING
Car"pet*ing, n.

Defn: 1. The act of covering with carpets.

2. Cloth or materials for carpets; carpets, in general.
The floor was covered with rich carpeting. Prescott.

CARPETLESS
Car"pet*less, a.

Defn: Without a carpet.

CARPETMONGER
Car"pet*mon`ger, n.

1. One who deals in carpets; a buyer and seller of carpets.

2. One fond of pleasure; a gallant. Shak.

CARPETWAY
Car"pet*way`, n. (Agric.)

Defn: A border of greensward left round the margin of a plowed field.
Ray.

CARPHOLOGY
Car*phol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. carphologie.] (Med.)

Defn: See Flaccillation.

CARPING
Carp"ing, a.

Defn: Fault-finding; censorious caviling. See Captious.
 -- Carp"ing*ly, adv.

CARPINTERO
Car`pin*te"ro, n. Etym: [Sp., a carpenter, a woodpecker.]

Defn: A california woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus), noted for
its habit of inserting acorns in holes which it drills in trees. The
acorns become infested by insect larvæ, which, when grown, are
extracted for food by the bird.

CARPOGENIC
Car`po*gen"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Bot.)

Defn: Productive of fruit, or causing fruit to be developed.

CARPOLITE
Car"po*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite, cf. F. carpolithe.]

Defn: A general term for a fossil fruit, nut, or seed.

CARPOLOGICAL
Car`po*log"i*cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to carpology.

CARPOLOGIST
Car*pol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who describes fruits; one versed in carpology.

CARPOLOGY
Car*pol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That branch of botany which relates to the structure of seeds
and fruit.

CARPOPHAGOUS
Car*poph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Living on fruits; fruit-consuming.

CARPOPHORE
Car"po*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A slender prolongation of the receptacle as an axis between the
carpels, as in Geranium and many umbelliferous plants.

CARPOPHYLL
Car"po*phyll, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A leaf converted into a fruit or a constituent portion of a
fruit; a carpel.

Note: [See Illust. of Gymnospermous.]

CARPOPHYTE
Car"po*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A flowerless plant which forms a true fruit as the result of
fertilization, as the red seaweeds, the Ascomycetes, etc.

Note: The division of alge and fungi into four classes called
Carpophytes, Oöphytes, Protophytes, and Zygophytes (or Carposporeæ,
Oösporeæ, Protophyta, and Zygosporeæ) was proposed by Sachs about
1875.

CARPOSPORE
Car"po*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. -spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of spore formed in the conceptacles of red algæ.
 -- Car`po*spor"ic (, a.

CARPUS
Car"pus, n.; pl. Carpi. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The wrist; the bones or cartilages between the forearm, or
antibrachium, and the hand or forefoot; in man, consisting of eight
short bones disposed in two rows.

CARRACK
Car"rack, n.

Defn: See Carack.

CARRAGEEN; CARRIGEEN
Car"ra*geen`, Car"ri*geen`, n.

Defn: A small, purplish, branching, cartilaginous seaweed (Chondrus
crispus), which, when bleached, is the Irish moss of commerce. [Also
written carragheen, carageen.]

CARRANCHA
Car*ran"cha, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Brazilian kite (Polyborus Brasiliensis); -- so called in
imitation of its notes.

CARRAWAY
Car"ra*way, n.

Defn: See Caraway.

CARREL
Car"rel, n.

Defn: See Quarrel, an arrow.

CARREL
Car"rel, n. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as 4th Carol.

CARRIABLE
Car"ri*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being carried.

CARRIAGE
Car"riage, n. Etym: [OF. cariage luggage, carriage, chariage
carriage, cart, baggage, F. charriage, cartage, wagoning, fr. OF.
carier, charier, F. charrier, to cart. See Carry.]

1. That which is carried; burden; baggage. [Obs.]
David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage. 1.
Sam. xvii. 22.
And after those days we took up our carriages and went up to
Jerusalem. Acts. xxi. 15.

2. The act of carrying, transporting, or conveying.
Nine days employed in carriage. Chapman.

3. The price or expense of carrying.

4. That which carries of conveys, as: (a) A wheeled vehicle for
persons, esp. one designed for elegance and comfort. (b) A wheeled
vehicle carrying a fixed burden, as a gun carriage. (c) A part of a
machine which moves and carries of supports some other moving object
or part. (d) A frame or cage in which something is carried or
supported; as, a bell carriage.

5. The manner of carrying one's self; behavior; bearing; deportment;
personal manners.
His gallant carriage all the rest did grace. Stirling.

6. The act or manner of conducting measures or projects; management.
The passage and whole carriage of this action. Shak.
Carriage horse, a horse kept for drawing a carriage.
 -- Carriage porch (Arch.), a canopy or roofed pavilion covering the
driveway at the entrance to any building. It is intended as a shelter
for those who alight from vehicles at the door; -- sometimes
erroneously called in the United States porte-cochère.

CARRIAGEABLE
Car"riage*a*ble, a.

Defn: Passable by carriages; that can be conveyed in carriages. [R.]
Ruskin.

CARRIBOO
Car"ri*boo, n.

Defn: See Caribou.

CARRICK
Car"rick, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A carack. See Carack. Carrick bend (Naut.), a kind of knot,
used for bending together hawsers or other ropes.
 -- Carrick bitts (Naut.), the bitts which support the windlass.
Totten.

CARRIER
Car"ri*er, n. Etym: [From Carry.]

1. One who, or that which, carries or conveys; a messenger.
The air which is but . . . a carrier of the sounds. Bacon.

2. One who is employed, or makes it his business, to carry goods for
others for hire; a porter; a teamster.
The roads are crowded with carriers, laden with rich manufactures.
Swift.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: That which drives or carries; as: (a) A piece which
communicates to an object in a lathe the motion of the face plate; a
lathe dog. (b) A spool holder or bobbin holder in a braiding machine.
(c) A movable piece in magazine guns which transfers the cartridge to
a position from which it can be thrust into the barrel. Carrier
pigeon (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic pigeon used to convey
letters from a distant point to to its home.
 -- Carrier shell (Zoöl.), a univalve shell of the genus Phorus; --
so called because it fastens bits of stones and broken shells to its
own shell, to such an extent as almost to conceal it.
 -- Common carrier (Law.) See under Common, a.

CARRION
Car"ri*on, n. Etym: [OE. caroyne, OF. caroigne, F. charogne, LL.
caronia, fr. L. caro flesh Cf. Crone, Crony.]

1. The dead and putrefying body or flesh of an animal; flesh so
corrupted as to be unfit for food.
They did eat the dead carrions. Spenser.

2. A contemptible or worthless person; -- a term of reproach. [Obs.]
"Old feeble carrions." Shak.

CARRION
Car"ri*on, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to dead and putrefying carcasses; feeding on
carrion.
A prey for carrion kites. Shak.
Carrion beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle that feeds habitually on dead
animals; -- also called sexton beetle and burying beetle. There are
many kinds, belonging mostly to the family Silphidæ.
 -- Carrion buzzard (Zoöl.), a South American bird of several species
and genera (as Ibycter, Milvago, and Polyborus), which act as
scavengers. See Caracara.
 -- Carrion crow, the common European crow (Corvus corone) which
feeds on carrion, insects, fruits, and seeds.

CARROL
Car"rol, n. (Arch.)

Defn: See 4th Carol.

CARROM
Car"rom, n. (Billiards)

Defn: See Carom.

CARROMATA
Car`ro*ma"ta, n. [Sp. in Phil. I.]

Defn: In the Philippines, a light, two-wheeled, boxlike vehicle
usually drawn by a single native pony and used to convey passengers
within city limits or for traveling. It is the common public
carriage.

CARRONADE
Car`ron*ade, n. Etym: [From Carron, in Scotland where it was first
made.] (Med.)

Defn: A kind of short cannon, formerly in use, designed to throw a
large projectile with small velocity, used for the purpose of
breaking or smashing in, rather than piercing, the object aimed at,
as the side of a ship. It has no trunnions, but is supported on its
carriage by a bolt passing through a loop on its under side.

CARRON OIL
Car"ron oil.

Defn: A lotion of linseed oil and lime water, used as an application
to burns and scalds; -- first used at the Carron iron works in
Scotland.

CARROT
Car"rot, n. Etym: [F. carotte, fr. L. carota; cf. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous biennial plant (Daucus Carota), of many
varieties.

2. The esculent root of cultivated varieties of the plant, usually
spindle-shaped, and of a reddish yellow color.

CARROTY
Car"rot*y, a.

Defn: Like a carrot in color or in taste; -- an epithet given to
reddish yellow hair, etc.

CARROW
Car"row, n. Etym: [Ir & Gael. carach cunning.]

Defn: A strolling gamester. [Ireland] Spenser.

CARRY
Car"ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Carried; p. pr. & vb. n. Carrying.] Etym:
[OF. carier, charier, F. carrier, to cart, from OF. car, char, F.
car, car. See Car.]

1. To convey or transport in any manner from one place to another; to
bear; -- often with away or off.
When he dieth he small carry nothing away. Ps. xiix. 17.
Devout men carried Stephen to his burial. Acts viii, 2.
Another carried the intelligence to Russell. Macaulay.
The sound will be carried, at the least, twenty miles. Bacon.

2. To have or hold as a burden, while moving from place to place; to
have upon or about one's person; to bear; as, to carry a wound; to
carry an unborn child.
If the ideas . . . were carried along with us in our minds. Locke.

3. To move; to convey by force; to impel; to conduct; to lead or
guide.
Go, carry Sir John Falstaff to the Fleet. Shak.
He carried away all his cattle. Gen. xxxi. 18.
Passion and revenge will carry them too far. Locke.

4. To transfer from one place (as a country, book, or column) to
another; as, to carry the war from Greece into Asia; to carry an
account to the ledger; to carry a number in adding figures.

5. To convey by extension or continuance; to extend; as, to carry the
chimney through the roof; to carry a road ten miles farther.

6. To bear or uphold successfully through conflict, as a leader or
principle; hence, to succeed in, as in a contest; to bring to a
successful issue; to win; as, to carry an election. "The greater part
carries it." Shak.
The carrying of our main point. Addison.

7. To get possession of by force; to capture.
The town would have been carried in the end. Bacon.

8. To contain; to comprise; to bear the aspect of ; to show or
exhibit; to imply.
He thought it carried something of argument in it. Watts.
It carries too great an imputation of ignorance. Lacke.

9. To bear (one's self); to behave, to conduct or demean; -- with the
refexive pronouns.
He carried himself so insolently in the house, and out of the house,
to all persons, that he became odious. Clarendon.

10. To bear the charges or burden of holding or having, as stocks,
merchandise, etc., from one time to another; as, a merchant is
carrying a large stock; a farm carries a mortgage; a broker carries
stock for a customer; to carry a life insurance. Carry arms (Mil.
Drill), a command of the Manual of Arms directing the soldier to hold
his piece in the right hand, the barrel resting against the hollow of
the shoulder in a nearly perpendicular position. In this position the
soldier is said to stand, and the musket to be held, at carry.
 -- To carry all before one, to overcome all obstacles; to have
uninterrupted success.
 -- To carry arms (a) To bear weapons. (b) To serve as a soldier.
 -- To carry away. (a) (Naut.) to break off; to lose; as, to carry
away a fore-topmast. (b) To take possession of the mind; to charm; to
delude; as, to be carried by music, or by temptation.
 -- To carry coals, to bear indignities tamely, a phrase used by
early dramatists, perhaps from the mean nature of the occupation.
Halliwell.
 -- To carry coals to Newcastle, to take things to a place where they
already abound; to lose one's labor.
 -- To carry off (a) To remove to a distance. (b) To bear away as
from the power or grasp of others. (c) To remove from life; as, the
plague carried off thousands.
 -- To carry on (a) To carry farther; to advance, or help forward; to
continue; as, to carry on a design. (b) To manage, conduct, or
prosecute; as, to carry on husbandry or trade.
 -- To carry out. (a) To bear from within. (b) To put into execution;
to bring to a successful issue. (c) To sustain to the end; to
continue to the end.
 -- To carry through. (a) To convey through the midst of. (b) To
support to the end; to sustain, or keep from falling, or being
subdued. "Grace will carry us . . . through all difficulties."
Hammond. (c) To complete; to bring to a succesful issue; to succeed.
 -- To carry up, to convey or extend in an upward course or
direction; to build.
 -- To carry weight. (a) To be handicapped; to have an extra burden,
as when one rides or runs. "He carries weight, he rides a race"
Cowper. (b) To have influence.

CARRY
Car"ry, v. i.

1. To act as a bearer; to convey anything; as, to fetch and carry.

2. To have propulsive power; to propel; as, a gun or mortar carries
well.

3. To hold the head; -- said of a horse; as, to carry well i. e., to
hold the head high, with arching neck.

4. (Hunting)

Defn: To have earth or frost stick to the feet when running, as a
hare. Johnson. To carry on, to behave in a wild, rude, or romping
manner. [Colloq.]

CARRY
Car"ry, n.; pl. Carries.

Defn: A tract of land, over which boats or goods are carried between
two bodies of navigable water; a carrying place; a portage. Etym:
[U.S.]

CARRYALL
Car"ry*all`, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. cariole.]

Defn: A light covered carriage, having four wheels and seats for four
or more persons, usually drawn by one horse.

CARRYING
Car"ry*ing, n.

Defn: The act or business of transporting from one place to another.
Carrying place, a carry; a portage.
 -- Carrying trade, the business of transporting goods, etc., from
one place or country to another by water or land; freighting.
We are rivals with them in . . . the carrying trade. Jay.

CARRYK
Car"ryk, n.

Defn: A carack. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CARRYTALE
Car"ry*tale`, n.

Defn: A talebearer. [R.] Shak.

CARSE
Carse, n. Etym: [Of Celtic origin; cf. W. cars bog, fen. carsen reed,
Armor. kars, korsen, bog plant, reed.]

Defn: Low, fertile land; a river valley. [Scot.] Jomieson.

CART
Cart, n. Etym: [AS. cræt; cf. W. cart, Ir. & Gael. cairt, or Icel.
kartr. Cf. Car.]

1. A common name for various kinds of vehicles, as a Scythian
dwelling on wheels, or a chariot. "Phoebus' cart." Shak.

2. A two-wheeled vehicle for the ordinary purposes of husbandry, or
for transporting bulky and heavy articles.
Packing all his goods in one poor cart. Dryden.

3. A light business wagon used by bakers, grocerymen, butchers, atc.

4. An open two-wheeled pleasure carriage. Cart horse, a horse which
draws a cart; a horse bred or used for drawing heavy loads.
 -- Cart load, or Cartload, as much as will fill or load a cart. In
excavating and carting sand, gravel, earth, etc., one third of a
cubic yard of the material before it is loosened is estimated to be a
cart load.
 -- Cart rope, a stout rope for fastening a load on a cart; any
strong rope.
 -- To put (or get or set) the cart before the horse, to invert the
order of related facts or ideas, as by putting an effect for a cause.

CART
Cart, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Carted; p. pr. & vb. n. Carting.]

1. To carry or convey in a cart.

2. To expose in a cart by way of punishment.
She chuckled when a bawd was carted. Prior.

CART
Cart, v. i.

Defn: To carry burdens in a cart; to follow the business of a carter.

CARTAGE
Cart"age, n.

1. The act of carrying in a cart.

2. The price paid for carting.

CARTBOTE
Cart"bote`, n. Etym: [Cart + bote.] (Old Eng. Law.)

Defn: Wood to which a tenant is entitled for making and repairing
carts and other instruments of husbandry.

CARTE
Carte, n. Etym: [F. See 1st Card.]

1. Bill of fare.

2. Short for Carte de visite.

CARTE BLANCHE
Carte` blanche". Etym: [F., fr. OF. carte paper + -blanc, blanche,
white. See 1st Card.]

Defn: A blank paper, with a person's signature, etc., at the bottom,
given to another person, with permission to superscribe what
conditions he pleases. Hence: Unconditional terms; unlimited
authority.

CARTE DE VISITE
Carte" de vi*site`, pl. Cartes de visite (. Etym: [F.]

1. A visiting card.

2. A photographic picture of the size formerly in use for a visiting
card.

CARTEL
Car*tel", n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. cartellus a little paper, dim. fr. L.
charta. See 1st Card.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: An agreement between belligerents for the exchange of
prisoners. Wilhelm.

2. A letter of defiance or challenge; a challenge to single combat.
[Obs.]
He is cowed at the very idea of a cartel., Sir W. Scott.
Cartel, or Cartel ship, a ship employed in the exchange of prisoners,
or in carrying propositions to an enemy; a ship beating a flag of
truce and privileged from capture.

CARTEL
Car"tel, v. t.

Defn: To defy or challenge. [Obs.]
You shall cartel him. B. Jonson.

CARTE QUARTE
Carte. Quarte, n. Etym: [F. quarte, prop., a fourth. Cf. Quart.]
(Fencing)

Defn: A position in thrusting or parrying, with the inside of the
hand turned upward and the point of the weapon toward the adversary's
right breast.

CARTER
Cart"er, n.

1. A charioteer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A man who drives a cart; a teamster.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) Any species of Phalangium; -- also called harvestman.
(b) A British fish; the whiff.

CARTESIAN
Car*te"sian, a. Etym: [From Renatus Cartesius, Latinized from of René
Descartes: cf. F. cartésien.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the French philosopher René Descartes, or
his philosophy.
The Cartesion argument for reality of matter. Sir W. Hamilton.
Cartesian coördinates (Geom), distance of a point from lines or
planes; -- used in a system of representing geometric quantities,
invented by Descartes.
 -- Cartesian devil, a small hollow glass figure, used in connection
with a jar of water having an elastic top, to illustrate the effect
of the compression or expansion of air in changing the specific
gravity of bodies.
 -- Cartesion oval (Geom.), a curve such that, for any point of the
curve mr + m'r' = c, where r and r' are the distances of the point
from the two foci and m, m' and c are constant; -- used by Descartes.

CARTESIAN
Car*te"sian, n.

Defn: An adherent of Descartes.

CARTESIANISM
Car*te"sian*ism, n.

Defn: The philosophy of Descartes.

CARTHAGINIAN
Car`tha*gin"i*an, a.

Defn: Of a pertaining to ancient Carthage, a city of northern Africa.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Carthage.

CARTHAMIN
Car"tha*min, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A red coloring matter obtained from the safflower, or Carthamus
tinctorius.

CARTHUSIAN
Car*thu"sian, n. Etym: [LL. Cartusianus, Cartusiensis, from the town
of Chartreuse, in France.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A member of an exceeding austere religious order, founded at
Chartreuse in France by St. Bruno, in the year 1086.

CARTHUSIAN
Car*thu"sian, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the Carthusian.

CARTILAGE
Car"ti*lage, n. Etym: [L. cartilago; cf. F. cartilage.] (Anat.)

Defn: A translucent, elastic tissue; gristle.

Note: Cartilage contains no vessels, and consists of a homogeneous,
intercellular matrix, in which there are numerous minute cavities, or
capsules, containing protoplasmic cells, the cartilage corpuscul. See
Illust under Duplication. Articular cartilage, cartilage that lines
the joints.
 -- Cartilage bone (Anat.), any bone formed by the ossification of
cartilage.
 -- Costal cartilage, cartilage joining a rib with he sternum. See
Illust. of Thorax.

CARTILAGINEOUS
Car`ti*la*gin"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. cartilageneus.]

Defn: See Cartilaginous. Ray.

CARTILAGINIFICATION
Car"ti*la*gin`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. cartilago, -laginis,
cartilage + facere to make.]

Defn: The act or process of forming cartilage. Wright.

CARTILAGINOUS
Car`ti*lag"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. cartilaginosus: cf. F.
cartilagineux.]

1. Of or pertaining to cartilage; gristly; firm and tough like
cartilage.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the skeleton in the state of cartilage, the bones
containing little or no calcareous matter; said of certain fishes, as
the sturgeon and the sharks.

CARTIST
Car"tist, n. [Sp. cartista, fr. carta paper, document (cf. Pg.
carta). See Charta; cf. Chartist.]

Defn: In Spain and Portugal, one who supports the constitution.

CARTMAN
Cart"man, n.; pl. Cartmen (.

Defn: One who drives or uses a cart; a teamster; a carter.

CARTOGRAM
Car"to*gram, n. [F. cartogramme.]

Defn: A map showing geographically, by shades or curves, statistics
of various kinds; a statistical map.

CARTOGRAPHER
Car*tog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who make charts or maps.

CARTOGRAPHIC; CARTOGRAPHICAL
Car`to*graph"ic, Car`to*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cartography.

CARTOGRAPHICALLY
Car`to*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By cartography.

CARTOGRAPHY
Car*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cartographie. See Card, and -
graphy.]

Defn: The act business of forming chart's or maps.

CARTOMANCY
Car"to*man`cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cartomancie. See Card, and -mancy.]

Defn: The act of telling fortunes with cards.

CARTON
Car"ton, n. Etym: [F. See Cartoon.]

Defn: Pasteboard for paper boxes; also, a pasteboard box. Carton
pierre (, a species of papier-maché, imitating stone or bronze
sculpture. Knight.

CARTOON
Car*toon", n. Etym: [F. carton (cf. It. cartons pasteboard,
cartoon.); fr. L. charta. See 1st card.]

1. A design or study drawn of the full size, to serve as a model for
transferring or copying; -- used in the making of mosaics,
tapestries, fresco pantings and the like; as, the cartoons of
Raphael.

2. A large pictorial sketch, as in a journal or magazine; esp. a
pictorial caricature; as , the cartoons of "Puck."

CARTOONIST
Car"toon"ist, n.

Defn: One skilled in drawing cartoons.

CARTOUCH
Car*touch", n.; pl. Cartouches Etym: [F. cartouche, It. cartuccia,
cartoccio, cornet, cartouch, fr. L. charta paper. See 1st Card, and
cf. Cartridge.]

1. (Mil.)
(a) A roll or case of paper, etc., holding a charge for a firearm; a
cartridge.
(b) A cartridge box.
(c) A wooden case filled with balls, to be shot from a cannon.
(d) A gunner's bag for ammunition.
(e) A military pass for a soldier on furlough.

2. (Arch.)
(a) A cantalever, console, corbel, or modillion, which has the form
of a scroll of paper.
(b) A tablet for ornament, or for receiving an inscription, formed
like a sheet of paper with the edges rolled up; hence, any tablet of
ornamental form.

3. (Egyptian Antiq.)

Defn: An oval figure on monuments, and in papyri, containing the name
of a sovereign.

CARTRIDGE
Car"tridge, n. Etym: [Formerlly cartrage, corrupted fr. F. cartouche.
See Cartouch.] (Mil.)

Defn: A complete charge for a firearm, contained in, or held together
by, a case, capsule, or shell of metal, pasteboard, or other
material. Ball cartridge, a cartridge containing a projectile.
 -- Blank cartrige, a cartridge without a projectile, -- Center-fire
cartridge, a cartridge in which the fulminate occupies an axial
position usually in the center of the base of the capsule, instead of
being contained in its rim. In the Prussian needle gun the fulminate
is applied to the middle of the base of the bullet. Rim-fire
cartridge, a cartridge in which the fulminate is contained in a rim
surrounding its base.
 -- Cartridge bag, a bag of woolen cloth, to hold a charge for a
cannon.
 -- Cartridge belt, a belt having pocket for cartridges.
 -- Cartridge box, a case, usually of leather, attached to a belt or
strap, for holding cartridges.
 -- Cartridge paper. (a) A thick stout paper for inclosing
cartridges. (b) A rough tinted paper used for covering walls, and
also for making drawings upon.

CARTULARY
Car"tu*la*ry, n.; pl. Cartularies. Etym: [LL. cartularium,
chartularium, fr. L. charta paper: cf. F. cartulaire. See 1st Card.]

1. A register, or record, as of a monastery or church.

Defn:

2. An ecclesiastical officer who had charge of records or other
public papers.

CARTWAY
Cart"way`, n.

Defn: A way or road for carts.

CARTWRIGHT
Cart"wright`, n. Etym: [Cart + wright.]

Defn: An artificer who makes carts; a cart maker.

CARUCAGE
Car"u*cage, n. Etym: [LL. carrucagium (OF. charuage.), fr. LL.
carruca plow, fr. L. carruca coach.]

1. (Old Eng. Law.)

Defn: A tax on every plow or plowland.

2. The act of plowing. [R.]

CARUCATE
Car"u*cate, n. Etym: [LL. carucata, carrucata. See Carucage.]

Defn: A plowland; as much land as one team can plow in a year and a
day; -- by some said to be about 100 acres. Burrill.

CARUNCLE; CARUNCULA
Car"un*cle, Ca*run"cu*la, n. Etym: [L. caruncula a little piece of
flesh, dim. of caro flesh.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A small fleshy prominence or excrescence; especially the small,
reddish body, the caruncula lacrymalis, in the inner angle of the
eye.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An excrescence or appendage surrounding or near the hilum of a
seed.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A naked, flesh appendage, on the head of a bird, as the wattles
of a turkey, etc.

CARUNCULAR; CARUNCULOUS
Ca*run"cu*lar, Ca*run"cu*lous, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, a caruncle; furnished with
caruncles.

CARUNCULATE; CARUNCULATED
Ca*run"cu*late, Ca*run"cu*la`ted, a.

Defn: Having a caruncle or caruncles; caruncular.

CARUS
Ca"rus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Coma with complete insensibility; deep lethargy.

CARVACROL
Car"va*crol, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A thick oily liquid, C10H13.OH, of a strong taste and
disagreeable odor, obtained from oil of caraway (Carum carui).

CARVE
Carve, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Carved; p. pr. & vb. n. Carving.] Etym:
[AS. ceorfan to cut, carve; akin to D. kerven, G. kerben, Dan. karve,
Sw. karfva, and to Gr. -graphy. Cf. Graphic.]

1. To cut. [Obs.]
Or they will carven the shepherd's throat. Spenser.

2. To cut, as wood, stone, or other material, in an artistic or
decorative manner; to sculpture; to engrave.
Carved with figures strange and sweet. Coleridge.

3. To make or shape by cutting, sculpturing, or engraving; to form;
as, to carve a name on a tree.
An angel carved in stone. Tennyson.
We carved not a line, and we raised not a stone. C. Wolfe.

4. To cut into small pieces or slices, as meat at table; to divide
for distribution or apportionment; to apportion. "To carve a capon."
Shak.

5. To cut: to hew; to mark as if by cutting.
My good blade carved the casques of men. Tennyson.
A million wrinkles carved his skin. Tennyson.

6. To take or make, as by cutting; to provide.
Who could easily have carved themselves their own food. South.

7. To lay out; to contrive; to design; to plan.
Lie ten nights awake carving the fashion of a new doublet. Shak.
To carve out, to make or get by cutting, or as if by cutting; to cut
out. "[Macbeth] with his brandished steel . . . carved out his
passage." Shak.
Fortunes were carved out of the property of the crown. Macaulay.

CARVE
Carve, v. i.

1. To exercise the trade of a sculptor or carver; to engrave or cut
figures.

2. To cut up meat; as, to carve for all the guests.

CARVE
Carve, n.

Defn: A carucate. [Obs.] Burrill.

CARVEL
Car"vel, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. caravel.]

1. Same as Caravel.

2. A species of jellyfish; sea blubber. Sir T. Herbert.

CARVELBUILT
Car"vel*built, a. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: Having the planks meet flush at the seams, instead of lapping
as in a clinker-built vessel.

CARVEN
Car"ven, a.

Defn: Wrought by carving; ornamented by carvings; carved. [Poetic]
A carven bowl well wrought of beechen tree. Bp. Hall.
The carven cedarn doors. Tennyson.
A screen of carven ivory. Mrs. Browning.

CARVENE
Car"vene, n. Etym: [F. carvi caraway.]

Defn: An oily substance, C10H16, extracted from oil caraway.

CARVER
Carv"er, n.

1. One who carves; one who shapes or fashions by carving, or as by
carving; esp. one who carves decorative forms, architectural
adornments, etc. "The carver's chisel." Dodsley.
The carver of his fortunes. Sharp (Richardson's Dict. )

2. One who carves or divides meat at table.

3. A large knife for carving.

CARVING
Carv"ing, n.

1. The act or art of one who carves.

2. A piece of decorative work cut in stone, wood, or other material.
"Carving in wood." Sir W. Temple.

3. The whole body of decorative sculpture of any kind or epoch, or in
any material; as, the Italian carving of the 15th century.

CARVIST
Car"vist, n. Etym: [A corruption of carry fist.] (Falconary)

Defn: A hawk which is of proper age and training to be carried on the
hand; a hawk in its first year. Booth.

CARVOL
Car"vol, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a species of aromatic oils, resembling carvacrol.

CAR WHEEL
Car" wheel`,

Defn: A flanged wheel of a railway car or truck.

CARYATIC; CARYATID
Car`y*at"ic, Car`y*at"id, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a caryatid.

CARYATID
Car`y*at"id, n.; pl. Caryatids Etym: [See Caryatides.]

Defn: (Arch.) A draped female figure supporting an entablature, in
the place of a column or pilaster.

CARYATIDES
Car`y*at"i*des, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Arch)

Defn: Caryatids.

Note: Corresponding male figures were called Atlantes, Telamones, and
Persians.

CARYOPHYLLACEOUS
Car`y*o*phyl*la"ceous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)
(a) Having corollas of five petals with long claws inclosed in a
tubular, calyx, as the pink.
(b) Belonging to the family of which the pink and the carnation are
the types.

CARYOPHYLLIN
Car`y*oph"yl*lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A tasteless and odorless crystalline substance, extracted from
cloves, polymeric with common camphor.

CARYOPHYLLOUS
Car`y*oph"yl*lous, a.

Defn: Caryophyllaceous.

CARYOPSIS
Car`y*op"sis, n.; pl. Caryopses. Etym: [NL., fr. gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A one-celled, dry, indehiscent fruit, with a thin membranous
pericarp, adhering closely to the seed, so that fruit and seed are
incorporated in one body, forming a single grain, as of wheat,
barley, etc.

CASA
Ca"sa, n. [Sp. or It., fr. L. casa  cabin.]

Defn: A house or mansion. [Sp. Amer. & Phil. Islands]

I saw that Enriquez had made no attempt to modernize the old casa,
and that even the garden was left in its lawless native luxuriance.
Bret Harte.

CASAL
Ca"sal, a. (Gram.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to case; as, a casal ending.

CASCABEL
Cas"ca*bel, n. Etym: [Sp. cascabel a little bell, also (fr. the
shape), a knob at the breech end of a cannon.]

Defn: The projection in rear of the breech of a cannon, usually a
knob or breeching loop connected with the gun by a neck. In old
writers it included all in rear of the base ring.

Note: [See Illust. of Cannon.]

CASCADE
Cas*cade", n. Etym: [F. cascade, fr. It. cascata, fr. cascare to
ball.]

Defn: A fall of water over a precipice, as in a river or brook; a
waterfall less than a cataract.
The silver brook . . . pours the white cascade. Longjellow.
Now murm'ring soft, now roaring in cascade. Cawper.

CASCADE
Cas*cade", v. i.

1. To fall in a cascade. Lowell.

2. To vomit. [Slang] Smollett.

CASCADE METHOD
Cas*cade" meth"od. (Physics)

Defn: A method of attaining successively lower temperatures by
utilizing the cooling effect of the expansion of one gas in
condensing another less easily liquefiable, and so on.

CASCADE SYSTEM
Cascade system. (Elec.)

Defn: A system or method of connecting and operating two induction
motors so that the primary circuit of one is connected to the
secondary circuit of the other, the primary circuit of the latter
being connected to the source of supply; also, a system of electric
traction in which motors so connected are employed. The cascade
system is also called tandem, or concatenated, system; the connection
a cascade, tandem, or concatenated, connection, or a concatenation;
and the control of the motors so obtained a tandem, or concatenation,
control. In the cascade system of traction the cascade connection is
used for starting and for low speeds up to half speed. For full speed
the short-circuited motor is cut loose from the other motor and is
either left idle or (commonly) connected direct to the line.

CASCALHO
Cas*cal"ho, n. Etym: [Pg., a chip of stone, gravel.]

Defn: A deposit of pebbles, gravel, and ferruginous sand, in which
the Brazilian diamond is usually found.

CASCARA BUCKTHORN
Cas"ca*ra buck"thorn`. (Bot.)

Defn: The buckthorn (Rhamnus Purshiana) of the Pacific coast of the
United States, which yields cascara sagrada.

CASCARA SAGRADA
Cas"ca*ra sa*gra"da. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: Holy bark; the bark of the California buckthorn (Rhamnus
Purshianus), used as a mild cathartic or laxative.

CASCARILLA
Cas`ca*ril"la, n.Etym: [Sp., small thin bark, Peruvian bark, dim. of
cáscara bark.] (Bot.)

Defn: A euphorbiaceous West Indian shrub (Croton Eleutheria); also,
its aromatic bark. Cascarilla bark (or Cascarila) (Med.), the bark of
Croton Eleutheria. It has an aromatic odor and a warm, spicy, bitter
taste, and when burnt emits a musky odor. It is used as a gentle
tonic, and sometimes, for the sake of its fragrance, mixed with
smoking tobacco, when it is said to occasion vertigo and
intoxication.

CASCARILLIN
Cas`ca*ril"lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystallizable, bitter substance extracted from oil of
cascarilla.

CASCARON
Cas`ca*ron", n. [Sp. cascarón.]

Defn: Lit., an eggshell; hence, an eggshell filled with confetti to
be thrown during balls, carnivals, etc. [Western U. S.]

CASE
Case, n. Etym: [OF. casse, F. caisse (cf. It. cassa), fr. L. capsa
chest, box, case, fr. caper to take, hold See Capacious, and cf. 4th
Chase, Cash, Enchase, 3d Sash.]

1. A box, sheath, or covering; as, a case for holding goods; a case
for spectacles; the case of a watch; the case (capsule) of a
cartridge; a case (cover) for a book.

2. A box and its contents; the quantity contained in a box; as, a
case of goods; a case of instruments.

3. (Print.)

Defn: A shallow tray divided into compartments or "boxes" for holding
type.

Note: Cases for type are usually arranged in sets of two, called
respectively the upper and the lower case. The upper case contains
capitals, small capitals, accented; the lower case contains the small
letters, figures, marks of punctuation, quadrats, and spaces.

4. An inclosing frame; a casing; as, a door case; a window case.

5. (Mining)

Defn: A small fissure which admits water to the workings. Knight.

CASE
Case, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cased; p. pr. & vb. n. Casing.]

1. To cover or protect with, or as with, a case; to inclose.
The man who, cased in steel, had passed whole days and nights in the
saddle. Prescott.

2. To strip the skin from; as, to case a box. [Obs.]

CASE
Case, n. Etym: [F. cas, fr. L. casus, fr. cadere to fall, to happen.
Cf. Chance.]

1. Chance; accident; hap; opportunity. [Obs.]
By aventure, or sort, or cas. Chaucer.

2. That which befalls, comes, or happens; an event; an instance; a
circumstance, or all the circumstamces; condition; state of things;
affair; as, a strange case; a case of injustice; the case of the
Indian tribes.
In any case thou shalt deliver him the pledge. Deut. xxiv. 13.
If the case of the man be so with his wife. Matt. xix. 10.
And when a lady's in the case. You know all other things give place.
Gay.
You think this madness but a common case. Pope.
I am in case to justle a constable, Shak.

3. (Med. & Surg.)

Defn: A patient under treatment; an instance of sickness or injury;
as, ten cases of fever; also, the history of a disease or injury.
A proper remedy in hypochondriacal cases. Arbuthnot.

4. (Law)

Defn: The matters of fact or conditions involved in a suit, as
distinguished from the questions of law; a suit or action at law; a
cause.
Let us consider the reason of the case, for nothing is law that is
not reason. Sir John Powell.
Not one case in the reports of our courts. Steele.

5. (Gram.)

Defn: One of the forms, or the inflections or changes of form, of a
noun, pronoun, or adjective, which indicate its relation to other
words, and in the aggregate constitute its declension; the relation
which a noun or pronoun sustains to some other word.
Case is properly a falling off from the nominative or first state of
word; the name for which, however, is now, by extension of its
signification, applied also to the nominative. J. W. Gibbs.

Note: Cases other than the nominative are oblique cases. Case endings
are terminations by which certain cases are distinguished. In old
English, as in Latin, nouns had several cases distinguished by case
endings, but in modern English only that of the possessive case is
retained. Action on the case (Law), according to the old
classification (now obsolete), was an action for redress of wrongs or
injuries to person or property not specially provided against by law,
in which the whole cause of complaint was set out in the writ; --
called also trespass on the case, or simply case.
 -- All a case, a matter of indifference. [Obs.] "It is all a case to
me." L'Estrange.
 -- Case at bar. See under Bar, n.
 -- Case divinity, casuistry.
 -- Case lawyer, one versed in the reports of cases rather than in
the science of the law.
 -- Case stated or agreed on (Law), a statement in writing of facts
agreed on and submitted to the court for a decision of the legal
points arising on them.
 -- A hard case, an abandoned or incorrigible person. [Colloq.] -- In
any case, whatever may be the state of affairs; anyhow.
 -- In case, or In case that, if; supposing that; in the event or
contingency; if it should happen that. "In case we are surprised,
keep by me." W. Irving.
 -- In good case, in good condition, health, or state of body.
 -- To put a case, to suppose a hypothetical or illustrative case.

Syn.
 -- Situation, condition, state; circumstances; plight; predicament;
occurrence; contingency; accident; event; conjuncture; cause; action;
suit.

CASE
Case, v. i.

Defn: To propose hypothetical cases. [Obs.] "Casing upon the matter."
L'Estrange.

CASEATION
Ca`se*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. caséation. See Casein.] (Med.)

Defn: A degeneration of animal tissue into a cheesy or curdy mass.

CASE-BAY
Case"-bay`, n. (Arch.)
(a) The space between two principals or girders.
(b) One of the joists framed between a pair of girders in naked
flooring.

CASEHARDEN
Case"hard`en, v. t.

1. To subject to a process which converts the surface of iron into
steel.

2. To render insensible to good influences.

CASEHARDENED
Case"hard`ened, a.

1. Having the surface hardened, as iron tools.

2. Hardened against, or insusceptible to, good influences; rendered
callous by persistence in wrongdoing or resistance of good
influences; -- said of persons.

CASEHARDENING
Case"hard`en*ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of converting the surface of iron into
steel. Ure.

Note: Casehardening is now commonly effected by cementation with
charcoal or other carbonizing material, the depth and degree of
hardening (carbonization) depending on the time during which the iron
is exposed to the heat. See Cementation.

CASEIC
Ca"se*ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. caséique, fr. L. caseus cheese.]

Defn: OF or pertaining to cheese; as, caseic acid.

CASEIN
Ca"se*in, n. Etym: [Cf. F. caséine, fr. L. caseur cheese. Cf.
Cheese.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A proteid substance present in both the animal and the
vegetable kingdom. In the animal kindom it is chiefly found in milk,
and constitutes the main part of the curd separated by rennet; in the
vegetable kingdom it is found more or less abundantly in the seeds of
leguminous plants. Its reactions resemble those of alkali albumin.
[Written also caseine.]

CASE KNIFE
Case" knife`.

1. A knife carried in a sheath or case. Addison.

2. A large table knife; -- so called from being formerly kept in a
case.

CASEMATE
Case"mate, n. Etym: [F. casemate, fr. It. casamatta, prob. from casa
house + matto, f. matta, mad, weak, feeble, dim. from the same source
as E. -mate in checkmate.]

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A bombproof chamber, usually of masonry, in which cannon may be
placed, to be fired through embrasures; or one capable of being used
as a magazine, or for quartering troops.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A hollow molding, chiefly in cornices.

CASEMATED
Case"ma`ted, a.

Defn: Furnished with, protected by, or built like, a casemate.
Campbell.

CASEMENT
Case"ment, n. Etym: [Shortened fr. encasement. See Incase 1st Case,
and cf. Incasement.] (Arch.)

Defn: A window sash opening on hinges affixed to the upright side of
the frame into which it is fitted. (Poetically) A window.
A casement of the great chamber window. Shak.

CASEMENTED
Case"ment*ed, a.

Defn: Having a casement or casements.

CASEOSE
Ca"se*ose, n.  [Casein + -ose.] (Physiol.Chem.)

Defn: A soluble product (proteose) formed in the gastric and
pancreatic digestion of casein and caseinogen.

CASEOUS
Ca"se*ous, a. Etym: [L. caseus. Cf. Casein.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, cheese; having the qualities
of cheese; cheesy. Caseous degeneration, a morbid process, in
scrofulous or consumptive persons, in which the products of
inflammation are converted into a cheesy substance which is neither
absorbed nor organized.

CASERN
Ca"sern, n. Etym: [F. caserne.]

Defn: A lodging for soldiers in garrison towns, usually near the
rampart; barracks. Bescherelle.

CASE SHOT
Case" shot`. (Mil.)

Defn: A collection of small projectiles, inclosed in a case or
canister.

Note: In the United States a case shot is a thin spherical or oblong
cast-iron shell containing musket balls and a bursting charge, with a
time fuse; -- called in Europe shrapnel. In Europe the term case shot
is applied to what in the United States is called canister. Wilhelm.

CASE SYSTEM
Case system. (Law)

Defn: The system of teaching law in which the instruction is
primarily a historical and inductive study of leading or selected
cases, with or without the use of textbooks for reference and
collateral reading.

CASEUM
Ca"se*um, n. Etym: [L. caseus cheese.]

Defn: Same as Casein.

CASEWORM
Case"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A worm or grub that makes for itself a case. See Caddice.

CASH
Cash, n. Etym: [F. caisse case, box, cash box, cash. See Case a box.]

Defn: A place where money is kept, or where it is deposited and paid
out; a money box. [Obs.]
This bank is properly a general cash, where every man lodges his
money. Sir W. Temple.
£20,000 are known to be in her cash. Sir R. Winwood.

2. (Com.)
(a) Ready money; especially, coin or specie; but also applied to bank
notes, drafts, bonds, or any paper easily convertible into money.
(b) Immediate or prompt payment in current funds; as, to sell goods
for cash; to make a reduction in price for cash. Cash account
(Bookkeeping), an account of money received, disbursed, and on hand.
 -- Cash boy, in large retail stores, a messenger who carries the
money received by the salesman from customers to a cashier, and
returns the proper change. [Colloq.] -- Cash credit, an account with
a bank by which a person or house, having given security for
repayment, draws at pleasure upon the bank to the extent of an amount
agreed upon; -- called also bank credit and cash account.
 -- Cash sales, sales made for ready, money, in distinction from
those on which credit is given; stocks sold, to be delivered on the
day of transaction.

Syn.
 -- Money; coin; specie; currency; capital.

CASH
Cash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Casing.]

Defn: To pay, or to receive, cash for; to exchange for money; as,
cash a note or an order.

CASH
Cash, v. t. Etym: [See Cashier.]

Defn: To disband. [Obs.] Garges.

CASH
Cash, n.sing & pl.

Defn: A Chinese coin.

Note: The cash (Chinese tsien) is the only current coin made by the
chinese government. It is a thin circular disk of a very base alloy
of copper, with a square hole in the center. 1,000 to 1,400 cash are
equivalent to a dollar.

CASHBOOK
Cash"book, n. (Bookkeeping)

Defn: A book in which is kept a register of money received or paid
out.

CASHEW
Ca*shew", n. Etym: [F. acajou, for cajou, prob. from Malay kayu tree;
cf. Pg. acaju, cf. Acajou.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree (Anacardium occidentale) of the same family which the
sumac. It is native in tropical America, but is now naturalized in
all tropical countries. Its fruit, a kidney-shaped nut, grows at the
extremity of an edible, pear-shaped hypocarp, about three inches
long. Casbew nut, the large, kidney-shaped fruit of the cashew, which
is edible after the caustic oil has been expelled from the shell by
roasting the nut.

CASHIER
Cash*ier", n. Etym: [F. caissier, fr. caisse. See Cash.]

Defn: One who has charge of money; a cash keeper; the officer who has
charge of the payments and receipts (moneys, checks, notes), of a
bank or a mercantile company.

CASHIER
Cash*ier", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cahiered; p. pr. &vb. n. Cashiering.]
Etym: [Earlier cash, fr. F. casser to break, annul, cashier, fr. L.
cassare, equiv. to cassum reddere, to annul; cf. G. cassiren. Cf.
Quash to annul, Cass.]

1. To dismiss or discard; to discharge; to dismiss with ignominy from
military service or from an office or place of frust.
They have cashiered several of their followers. Addison.
He had insolence to cashier the captain of the lord lieutenant's own
body guard. Macaulay.

2. To put away or reject; to disregard. [R.]
Connections formed for interest, and endeared
By selfish views, [are] censured and cashiered. Cowper.
They absolutely cashier the literal express sense of the words.
Sowth.

CASHIERER
Cash*ier"er, n.

Defn: One who rejects, discards, or dismisses; as, a cashierer of
monarchs. [R.] Burke.

CASHIER'S CHECK
Cash*ier's" check. (Banking)

Defn: A check drawn by a bank upon its own funds, signed by the
cashier.

CASHMERE
Cash"mere, n.

1. A rich stuff for shawls, acaris, etc., originally made in Cashmere
from the soft wool found beneath the hair of the goats of Cashmere,
Thibet, and the Himalayas. Some cashmere, of fine quality, is richly
embroidered for sale to Europeans.

2. A dress fabric made of fine wool, or of fine wool and cotton, in
imitation of the original cashmere. Cashmere shawl, a rich and costly
shawl made of cashmere; -- other called camel's-hair shawl.

CASHMERETTE
Cash`me*rette", n.

Defn: A kind of dress goods, made with a soft and glossy surface like
cashmere.

CASHOO
Ca*shoo", n. Etym: [F. cachou, NL. catechu, Cochin-Chin. cay cau from
the tree called mimosa, or areca catechu. Cf. Catechu.]

Defn: See Catechu.

CASH RAILWAY
Cash railway.

Defn: A form of cash carrier in which a small carrier or car travels
upon a kind of track.

CASH REGISTER
Cash register.

Defn: A device for recording the amount of cash received, usually
having an automatic adding machine and a money drawer and exhibiting
the amount of the sale.

CASING
Cas"ing, n.

1. The act or process of inclosing in, or covering with, a case or
thin substance, as plaster, boards, etc.

2. An outside covering, for protection or ornament, or to precent the
radiation of heat.

3. An inclosing frame; esp. the framework around a door or a window.
See Case, n., 4.

CASINGS
Ca"sings, n. pl.

Defn: Dried dung of cattle used as fuel. [Prov. Eng.] Waterland.

CASINO
Ca*si"no, n.; pl. E. Casinos, It. Casini. Etym: [It. casino, dim. of
casa house, fr. L. casa cottage. Cf. Cassing.]

1. A small country house.

2. A building or room used for meetings, or public amusements, for
dancing, gaming, etc.

3. A game at cards. See Cassino.

CASK
Cask, n. Etym: [Sp. casco potsherd, skull, helmet, prob. fr. cascar
to break, fr. L. Quassure to break. Cf. Casque, Cass.]

1. Same as Casque. [Obs.]

2. A barrel-shaped vessel made of staves headings, and hoops, usually
fitted together so as to hold liquids. It may be larger or smaller
than a barrel.

3. The quantity contained in a cask.

4. A casket; a small box for jewels. [Obs.] Shak.

CASK
Cask, v. t.

Defn: To put into a cask.

CASKET
Cas"ket, n. Etym: [Cf. F. casquet, dim. of casque belmet, fr. Sp.
casco.]

1. A small chest or box, esp. of rich material or ornamental
character, as for jewels, etc.
The little casket bring me hither. Shak.

2. A kind of burial case. [U. S.]

3. Anything containing or intended to contain something highly
esteemed; as: (a) The body. (Shak). (b) The tomb. (Milton). (c) A
book of selections. [poetic]
They found him dead . . . an empty casket. Shak.

CASKET
Cas"ket, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A gasket. See Gasket.

CASKET
Cas"ket, v. t.

Defn: To put into, or preserve in, a casket. [Poetic] "I have
casketed my treasure." Shak.

CASQUE
Casque, n. Etym: [F. casque, fr. Sp. casco See Cask.]

Defn: A piece of defensive or ornamental armor (with or without a
vizor) for the head and neck; a helmet.
His casque overshadowed with brilliant plumes. Prescott.

CASS
Cass, v. t. Etym: [F. casser, LL. cassare, fr. L. cassus empty,
hollow, and perhaps influenced by L. quassare to shake, shatter, v.
intens. of quatere to shake. Cf. Cashier, v. t., Quash, Cask.]

Defn: To render useless or void; to annul; to reject; to send away.
[Obs.] Sir W. Raleing.

CASSADA
Cas"sa*da, n.

Defn: See Cassava.

CASSAREEP
Cas"sa*reep, n.

Defn: A condiment made from the sap of the bitter cassava (Manihot
utilissima) deprived of its poisonous qualities, concentrated by
boiling, and flavored with aromatics. See Pepper pot.

CASSATE
Cas"sate, v. t. Etym: [LL. cassare. See Cass.]

Defn: To render void or useless; to vacate or annul. [Obs.]

CASSATION
Cas*sa"tion, n. Etym: [F. cassation. See Cass.]

Defn: The act of annulling.
A general cassation of their constitutions. Motley.
Court of cassation, the highest court of appeal in France, which has
power to quash (Casser) or reverse the decisions of the inferior
courts.

CASSAVA
Cas"sa*va, n. Etym: [F. cassave, Sp. cazabe, fr. kasabi, in the
language of Hayti.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A shrubby euphorbiaceous plant of the genus Manihot, with
fleshy rootstocks yielding an edible starch; -- called also manioc.

Note: There are two species, bitter and sweet, from which the cassava
of commerce is prepared in the West Indies, tropical America, and
Africa. The bitter (Manihot utilissima) is the more important; this
has a poisonous sap, but by grating, pressing, and baking the root
the poisonous qualities are removed. The sweet (M. Aipi) is used as a
table vegetable.

2. A nutritious starch obtained from the rootstocks of the cassava
plant, used as food and in making tapioca.

CASSAVA WOOD
Cas"sa*va wood`. (Bot.)

Defn: A West Indian tree (Turpinia occidentalis) of the family
Staphyleaceæ.

CASSEL BROWN; CASSEL EARTH
Cas"sel brown, Cas"sel earth .

Defn: A brown pigment of varying permanence, consisting of impure
lignite. It was found originally near Cassel (now Kassel), Germany.

CASSE PAPER
Cas"se Pa"per. Etym: [F. papier cassé. See Cass.]

Defn: Broken paper; the outside quires of a ream.

CASSEROLE
Cas"se*role n. Etym: [F. a saucepan, dim. from casse a basin.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A small round dish with a handle, usually of porcelain.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: A mold (in the shape of a hollow vessel or incasement) of
boiled rice, mashed potato or paste, baked, and afterwards filled
with vegetables or meat.

CASSE-TETE
Casse`-tête", n. [F., fr. casser to breal (see 2d Quash) + tête
head.]

Defn: A small war club, esp. of savages; -- so called because of its
supposed use in crushing the skull.

CASSETTE
Cas`sette", n. [F., prop., a casket, dim. of casse a case. See lst
Case.]

Defn: Same as Seggar.

CASSIA
Cas"sia, n. Etym: [L. cassia and casia, Gr. qetsi\'beh, fr. qatsa' to
cut off, to peel off.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of leguminous plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees) of many
species, most of which have purgative qualities. The leaves of
several species furnish the senna used in medicine.

2. The bark of several species of Cinnamommum grown in China, etc.;
Chinese cinnamon. It is imported as cassia, but commonly sold as
cinnamon, from which it differs more or less in strength and flavor,
and the amount of outer bark attached.

Note: The medicinal "cassia" (Cassia pulp) is the laxative pulp of
the pods of a leguminous tree (Cassia fistula or Pudding-pipe tree),
native in the East Indies but naturalized in various tropical
countries. Cassia bark, the bark of Cinnamomum Cassia, etc. The
coarser kinds are called Cassia lignea, and are often used to
adulterate true cinnamon.
 -- Cassia buds, the dried flower buds of several species of cinnamon
(Cinnamomum cassia, atc..).
 -- Cassia oil, oil extracted from cassia bark and cassia buds; --
called also oil of cinnamon.

CASSICAN
Cas"si*can, n. Etym: [NL. cassicus helmeted, fr. L. cassis a belmet.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An American bird of the genus Cassicus, allied to the starlings
and orioles, remarkable for its skillfully constructed and suspended
nest; the crested oriole. The name is also sometimes given to the
piping crow, an Australian bird.

CASSIDEOUS
Cas*sid"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. Cassis helmet.] (Bot.)

Defn: Helmet-shaped; -- applied to a corolla having a broad, helmet-
shaped upper petal, as in aconite.

CASSIDONY
Cas"si*do*ny, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. cassidonium, F. Cassidoine. See
Chalcedony.] (Bot.)
(a) The French lavender (Lawandula Stachas).
(b) The goldilocks (Chrysocoma linosyris) and perhaps other plants
related to the genus Gnaphalium or cudweed.

CASSIMERE
Cas"si*mere, n. Etym: [Cf. F. casimir, prob. of the same origin as E.
cashmere. Cf. Kerseymere.]

Defn: A thin, twilled, woolen cloth, used for men's garments.
[Written also kerseymere.]

CASSINETTE
Cas`si*nette", n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. casinete, G. cassinet.]

Defn: A cloth with a cotton wart, and a woof of very fine wool, or
wool and silk.

CASSINIAN OVALS
Cas*sin"i*an o"vals. (Math.)

Defn: See under Oval.

CASSINO
Cas*si"no, n. Etym: [It. casino a small house, a gaming house. See
asing.]

Defn: A game at cards, played by two or more persons, usually for
twenty-one points. Great cassino, the ten of diamonds.
 -- Little cassino, the two of spades.

CASSIOBERRY
Cas"si*o*ber`ry, n. Etym: [NL. cassine, from the language of the
Florida Indians.]

Defn: The fruit of the Viburnum obovatum, a shrub which grows from
Virginia to Florida.

CASSIOPEIA
Cas`si*o*pe"ia, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation of the northern hemisphere, situated between
Capheus and Perseus; -- so called in honor of the wife of Cepheus, a
fabuolous king of Ethiopia. Cassiopeia's Chair, a group of six stars,
in Cassiopeia, somewhat resembling a chair.

CASSITERITE
Cas*sit"er*ite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Native tin dioxide; tin stone; a mineral occurring in
tetragonal crystals of reddish brown color, and brilliant adamantine
luster; also massive, sometimes in compact forms with concentric
fibrous structure resembling wood (wood tin), also in rolled
fragments or pebbly (Stream tin). It is the chief source of metallic
tin. See Black tin, under Black.

CASSIUS
Cas"sius, n. Etym: [From the name of the discoverer, A. Cassius, a
German physician of the 17th centry.]

Defn: A brownish purple pigment, obtained by the action of some
compounds of tin upon certain salts of gold. It is used in painting
and staining porcelain and glass to give a beautiful purple color.
Commonly called Purple of Cassius.

CASSOCK
Cas"sock, n. Etym: [F. casaque, fr. It. casacca, perh. fr. L. casa
cottage, in It., house; or of Slavic origin.]

1. A long outer garment formerly worn by men and women, as well as by
soldiers as part of their uniform.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A garment resembling a long frock coat worn by the clergy of
certain churches when officiating, and by others as the usually outer
garment.

CASSOCKED
Cas"socked, a.

Defn: Clothed with a cassock.

CASSOLETTE
Cas`so*lette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: a box, or vase with a perforated cover to emit perfumes.

CASSONADE
Cas`son*ade", n. Etym: [F., fr. casson, for caisson a large chest.
This sugar comes from Brazil in large chests.]

Defn: Raw sugar; sugar not refined. Mc Elrath.

CASSOWARY
Cas"so*wa*ry, n.; pl. Cassowaries. Etym: [Malay kasuari.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large bird, of the genus Casuarius, found in the east Indies.
It is smaller and stouter than the ostrich. Its head is armed with a
kind of helmet of horny substance, consisting of plates overlapping
each other, and it has a group of long sharp spines on each wing
which are used as defensive organs. It is a shy bird, and runs with
great rapidity. Other species inhabit New Guinea, Australia, etc.

CASSUMUNAR; CASSUMUNIAR
Cas`su*mu"nar, Cas`su*mu"ni*ar, n. Etym: [Hind.] (Med.)

Defn: A pungent, bitter, aromatic, gingerlike root, obtained from the
East Indies.

CAST
Cast, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cast; p. pr. & vb. n. Casting.] Etym: [Cf.
Dan. kastw, Icel. & Sw. kasta; perh. akin to L. gerer to bear, carry.
E. Jest.]

1. To send or drive by force; to throw; to fling; to hurl; to impel.
Uzziash prepared . . . slings to cast stones. 2 Chron. xxvi. 14
Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me. Acts. xii. 8
We must be cast upon a certain island. Acts. xxvii. 26.

2. To direct or turn, as the eyes.
How earnestly he cast his eyes upon me! Shak.

3. To drop; to deposit; as, to cast a ballot.

4. To throw down, as in wrestling. Shak.

5. To throw up, as a mound, or rampart.
Thine enemies shall cast a trench [bank] about thee. Luke xix. 48.

6. To throw off; to eject; to shed; to lose.
His filth within being cast. Shak.
Neither shall your vine cast her fruit. Mal. iii. 11
The creatures that cast the skin are the snake, the viper, etc.
Bacon.

7. To bring forth prematurely; to slink.
Thy she-goats have not cast their young. Gen. xxi. 38.

8. To throw out or emit; to exhale. [Obs.]
This . . . casts a sulphureous smell. Woodward.

9. To cause to fall; to shed; to reflect; to throw; as, to cast a ray
upon a screen; to cast light upon a subject.

10. To impose; to bestow; to rest.
The government I cast upon my brother. Shak.
Cast thy burden upon the Lord. Ps. iv. 22.

11. To dismiss; to discard; to cashier. [Obs.]
The state can not with safety casthim.

12. To compute; to reckon; to calculate; as, to cast a horoscope.
"Let it be cast and paid." Shak.
You cast the event of war my noble lord. Shak.

13. To contrive; to plan. [Archaic]
The cloister . . . had, I doubt not, been cast for [an orange-
house]. Sir W. Temple.

14. To defeat in a lawsuit; to decide against; to convict; as, to be
cast in damages.
She was cast to be hanged. Jeffrey.
Were the case referred to any competent judge, they would inevitably
be cast. Dr. H. More.

15. To turn (the balance or scale); to overbalance; hence, to make
preponderate; to decide; as, a casting voice.
How much interest casts the balance in cases dubious! South.

16. To form into a particular shape, by pouring liquid metal or other
material into a mold; to fashion; to found; as, to cast bells,
stoves, bullets.

17. (Print.)

Defn: To stereotype or electrotype.

18. To fix, distribute, or allot, as the parts of a play among
actors; also to assign (an actor) for a part.
Our parts in the other world will be new cast. Addison.
To cast anchor (Naut.) Se under Anchor.
 -- To cast a horoscope, to calculate it.
 -- To cast a horse, sheep, or other animal, to throw with the feet
upwards, in such a manner as to prevent its rising again.
 -- To cast a shoe, to throw off or lose a shoe, said of a horse or
ox.
 -- To cast aside, to throw or push aside; to neglect; to reject as
useless or inconvenient.
 -- To cast away. (a) To throw away; to lavish; to waste. "Cast away
a life" Addison. (b) To reject; to let perish. "Cast away his
people." Rom. xi. 1. "Cast one away." Shak. (c) To wreck. "Cast away
and sunk." Shak.
 -- To cast by, to reject; to dismiss or discard; to throw away.
 -- To cast down, to throw down; to destroy; to deject or depress, as
the mind. "Why art thou cast down. O my soul" Ps. xiii. 5.
 -- To cast forth, to throw out, or eject, as from an inclosed place;
to emit; to send out.
 -- To cast in one's lot with, to share the fortunes of.
 -- To cast in one's teeth, to upbraid or abuse one for; to twin.
 -- To cast lots. See under Lot.
 -- To cast off. (a) To discard or reject; to drive away; to put off;
to free one's self from. (b) (Hunting) To leave behind, as dogs;
also, to set loose, or free, as dogs. Crabb. (c) (Naut.) To untie,
throw off, or let go, as a rope.
 -- To cast off copy, (Print.), to estimate how much printed matter a
given amount of copy will make, or how large the page must be in
order that the copy may make a given number of pages.
 -- To cast one's self on or upon to yield or submit one's self
unreservedly to. as to the mercy of another.
 -- To cast out, to throy out; to eject, as from a house; to cast
forth; to expel; to utter.
 -- To cast the lead (Naut.), to sound by dropping the lead to the
botton.
 -- To cast the water (Med.), to examine the urine for signs of
disease. [Obs.].
 -- To cast up. (a) To throw up; to raise. (b) To compute; to reckon,
as the cost. (c) To vomit. (d) To twit with; to throw in one's teeth.

CAST
Cast, v. i.

1. To throw, as a line in angling, esp, with a fly hook.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To turn the head of a vessel around from the wind in getting
under weigh.
Weigh anchor, cast to starboard. Totten.

3. To consider; to turn or revolve in the mind; to plan; as, to cast
about for reasons.
She . . . cast in her mind what manner of salution this should be.
Luke. i. 29.

4. To calculate; to compute. [R.]
Who would cast and balance at a desk. Tennyson.

5. To receive form or shape in a mold.
It will not run thin, so as to cast and mold. Woodward.

6. To warp; to become twisted out of shape.
Stuff is said to cast or warp when . . . it alters its flatness or
straightness. Moxon.

7. To vomit.
These verses . . . make me ready to cast. B. Jonson.

CAST
Cast,

Defn: 3d pres. of Cast, for Casteth. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CAST
Cast, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel., Dan., & Sw. kast.]

1. The act of casting or throwing; a throw.

2. The thing thrown.
A cast of dreadful dust. Dryden.

3. The distance to which a thing is or can be thrown. "About a
stone's cast." Luke xxii. 41.

4. A throw of dice; hence, a chance or venture.
An even cast whether the army should march this way or that way.
Sowth.
I have set my life upon a cast, And I will stand the hazard of the
die. Shak.

5. That which is throw out or off, shed, or ejected; as, the skin of
an insect, the refuse from a hawk's stomach, the excrement of a
earthworm.

6. The act of casting in a mold.
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon. Shak.

7. An impression or mold, taken from a thing or person; amold; a
pattern.

8. That which is formed in a mild; esp. a reproduction or copy, as of
a work of art, in bronze or plaster, etc.; a casting.

9. Form; appearence; mien; air; style; as, a pecullar cast of
countenance. "A neat cast of verse." Pope.
An heroic poem, but in another cast and figure. Prior.
And thus the native hue of resolution Is sicklied o'er with the pale
cast of thought. Shak.

10. A tendency to any color; a tinge; a shade.
Gray with a cast of green. Woodward.

11. A chance, opportunity, privilege, or advantage; specifically, an
opportunity of riding; a lift. [Scotch]
We bargained with the driver to give us a cast to the next stage.
Smollett.
If we had the cast o' a cart to bring it. Sir W. Scott.

12. The assignment of parts in a play to the actors.

13. (Falconary)

Defn: A flight or a couple or set of hawks let go at one time from
the hand. Grabb.
As when a cast of falcons make their flight. Spenser.

14. A stoke, touch, or trick. [Obs.]
This was a cast of Wood's politics; for his information was wholly
false. Swift.

15. A motion or turn, as of the eye; direction; look; glance; squint.
The cast of the eye is a gesture of aversion. Bacon.
And let you see with one cast of an eye. Addison.
This freakish, elvish cast came into the child's eye. Hawthorne.

16. A tube or funnel for conveying metal into a mold.

17. Four; that is, as many as are thrown into a vessel at once in
counting herrings, etc; a warp.

18. Contrivance; plot, design. [Obs.] Chaucer. A cast of the eye, a
slight squint or strabismus.
 -- Renal cast (Med.), microscopic bodies found in the urine of
persons affected with disease of the kidneys; -- so called because
they are formed of matter deposited in, and preserving the outline
of, the renal tubes.
 -- The last cast, the last throw of the dice or last effort, on
which every thing is ventured; the last chance.

CASTALIAN
Cas*ta"li*an, a. Etym: [L. Castalius]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Castalia, a mythical fountain of
inspiration on Mt. Parnassus sacred to the Muses. Milton.

CASTANEA
Cas*ta"ne*a, n. Etym: [L., a chestnut, fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of nut-bearing trees or shrubs including the chestnut
and chinquapin.

CASTANET
Cas"ta*net, n.

Defn: See Castanets.

CASTANETS
Cas"ta*nets, n. pl. Etym: [F. castagnettes, Sp. castañetas, fr. L.
castanea (Sp. castaña) a chestnut. So named from the resemblance to
two chestnuts, or because chestnuts were first used for castanets.
See Chestnut.]

Defn: Two small, concave shells of ivory or hard wood, shaped like
spoons, fastened to the thumb, and beaten together with the middle
finger; -- used by the Spaniards and Moors as an accompaniment to
their dance and guitars.

Note: The singular, castanet, is used of one of the pair, or,
sometimes, of the pair forming the instrument.
The dancer, holding a castanet in each hand, rattles then to the
motion of his feet. Moore (Encyc. of Music).

CASTAWAY
Cast"a*way, n.

1. One who, or that which, is cast away or shipwrecked.

2. One who is ruined; one who has made moral shipwreck; a reprobate.
Lest . . . when I have preached to others, I myself should be a
castaway. 1 Cor. ix. 27.

CASTAWAY
Cast"a*way, a.

Defn: Of no value; rejected; useless.

CASTE
Caste, n. Etym: [Pg. casta race, lineage, fr. L. castus pure, chaste:
cf. F. caste, of same origin.]

1. One of the hereditary classes into which the Hindoos are divided
according to the laws of Brahmanism.

Note: The members of the same caste are theoretically of equal rank,
and same profession or occupation, and may not eat or intermarry with
those not of their own caste. The original are four, viz., the
Brahmans, or sacerdotal order; the Kshatriyas, or soldiers and
rulers; the Vaisyas, or husbandmen and merchants; and the Sudras, or
laborers and mechanics. Men of no caste are Pariahs, outcasts.
Numerous mixed classes, or castes, have sprung up in the progress of
time.

2. A separate and fixed order or class of persons in society who
chiefly hold intercourse among themselves.
The tinkers then formed an hereditary caste. Macaulay.
To lose caste, to be degraded from the caste to which one has
belonged; to lose social position or consideration.

CASTELLAN
Cas"tel*lan, n. Etym: [OF. castelain, F. châtelain, L. castellanus
pertaining to a castle, an occupant of a caste, LL., a governor of a
castle, fr. L. catellum castle, citadel, dim. of castrum fortifled
place. See Castle, and cf. Chatelaine.]

Defn: A goveror or warden of a castle.

CASTELLANY
Cas"tel*la*ny, n.; pl. Castellanies. Etym: [LL. castellania.]

Defn: The lordship of a castle; the extent of land and jurisdiction
appertaining to a castle.

CASTELLATED
Cas"tel*la`ted, a. Etym: [LL. castellatus, fr. castellare. See
Castle.]

1. Inclosed within a building; as, a fountain or cistern castellated.
[Obs.] Johnson.

2. Furnished with turrets and battlements, like a castle; built in
the style of a castle.

CASTELLATION
Cas`tel*la"tion, n. Etym: [LL. castellation, fr. castellare, fr. L.
castellum. See Castle.]

Defn: The act of making into a castle.

CASTER
Cast"er, n.

1. One who casts; as, caster of stones, etc. ; a caster of cannon; a
caster of accounts.

2. A vial, cruet, or other small vessel, used to contain condiments
at the table; as, a set of casters.

3. A stand to hold a set of cruets.

4. A small wheel on a swivel, on which furniture is supported and
moved.

CASTIGATE
Cas"ti*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Castigated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Castigating.] Etym: [L. castigatus, p. p. of castigare to correct,
punish; castus pure, chaste + agere to move, drive. See Caste, and
cf. Chasten.]

1. To punish by stripes; to chastise by blows; to chasten; also, to
chastise verbally; to reprove; to criticise severely.

2. To emend; to correct. [Obs.]

CASTIGATION
Cas`ti*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. catigatio.]

1. Corrective punishment; chastisement; reproof; pungent criticism.
The keenest castigation of her slanderers. W. Irving.

2. Emendation; correction. [Obs.]

CASTIGATOR
Cas`ti*ga"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who castigates or corrects.

CASTIGATORY
Cas`ti*ga*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. castigatorius.]

Defn: Punitive in order to amendment; corrective.

CASTIGATORY
Cas"ti*ga*to*ry, n.

Defn: An instrument formerly used to punish and correct arrant
scolds; -- called also a ducking stool, or trebucket. Blacktone.

CASTILE SOAP
Cas"tile soap". Etym: [From Castile, or Castilia, a province in
Spain, from which it originally came.]

Defn: A kind of fine, hard, white or mottled soap, made with olive
and soda; also, a soap made in imitation of the above-described soap.

CASTILIAN
Cas*til"ian, n. Etym: [Sp. castellano, from Castila, NL. Castilia,
Castella. Castile, which received its name from the castles erected
on the frontiers as a barrier against the Moors.]

1. An inhabitant or native of Castile, in Spain.

2. The Spanish language as spoken in Castile.

CASTILLAN
Cas*til"lan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Castile, in Spain.

CASTING
Cast"ing, n.

1. The act of one who casts or throws, as in fishing.

2. The act or process of making cast or impressions, or of shaping
metal or plaster in a mold; the act or the process of pouring molten
metal into a mold.

3. That which is cast in a mold; esp. the mass of metal so cast; as,
a casting in iron; bronze casting.

4. The warping of a board. Brande & C.

5. The act of casting off, or that which is cast off, as skin,
feathers, excrement, etc. Casting of draperies, the proper
distribution of the folds of garments, in painting and sculpture.
 -- Casting line (Fishing), the leader; also, sometimes applied to
the long reel line. Casting net, a net which is cast and drawn, in
distinction from a net that is set and left.
 -- Casting voice, Casting vote, the decisive vote of a presiding
officer, when the votes of the assembly or house are equally divided.
"When there was an equal vote, the governor had the casting voice."
B. Trumbull.
 -- Casting weight, a weight that turns a balance when exactly
poised.

CAST IRON
Cast" i`ron.

Defn: Highly carbonized iron, the direct product of the blast
furnace; -- used for making castings, and for conversion into wrought
iron and steel. It can not be welded or forged, is brittle, and
sometimes very hard. Besides carbon, it contains sulphur, phosphorus,
silica, etc.

CAST-IRON
Cast"-i`ron, a.

Defn: Made of cast iron. Hence, Fig.: like cast iron; hardy;
unyielding.

CASTLE
Cas"tle, n. Etym: [AS. castel, fr. L. castellum, dim. of castrum a
fortified place, castle.]

1. A fortified residence, especially that of a prince or nobleman; a
fortress.
The house of every one is to him castle and fortress, as well for his
defense againts injury and violence, as for his repose. Coke.
Our castle's strength Will laugh a siege to scorn. Shak.

Note: Originally the mediæval castle was a single strong tower or
keep, with a palisaded inclosure around it and inferior buidings,
such as stables and the like, and surrounded by a moat; then such a
keep or donjon, with courtyards or baileys and accessory buildings of
greater elaboration a great hall and a chapel, all surrounded by
defensive walls and a moat, with a drawbridge, etc. Afterwards the
name was retained by large dwellings that had formerly been
fortresses, or by those which replaced ancient fortresses. A Donjon
or Keep, an irregular building containing the dwelling of the lord
and his family; B C Large round towers ferming part of the donjon and
of the exterior; D Square tower, separating the two inner courts and
forming part of the donjon; E Chapel, whose apse forms a half-round
tower, F, on the exterior walls; G H Round towers on the exterior
walls; K Postern gate, reached from outside by a removable fight of
steps or inclined plane for hoisting in stores, and leading to a
court, L (see small digagram) whose pavement is on a level with the
sill of the postern, but below the level of the larger court, with
which it communicates by a separately fortified gateway; M Turret,
containing spiral stairway to all the stories of the great tower, B,
and serving also as a station for signal fire, banner, etc.; N Turret
with stairway for tower, C; O Echauguettes; P P P Battlemants
consisting of merlons and crenels alternately, the merlons being
pierced by loopholes; Q Q Machicolations (those at Q defend the
postern K); R Outwork defending the approach, which is a road
ascending the hill and passing under all four faces of the castle; S
S Wall of the outer bailey. The road of approach enters the bailey at
T and passes thence into the castle by the main entrance gateway
(which is in the wall between, and defended by the towers, C H) and
over two drawbridges and through fortified passages to the inner
court.

2. Any strong, imposing, and stately mansion.

3. A small tower, as on a ship, or an elephant's back.

4. A piece, made to represent a castle, used in the game of chess; a
rook. Castle in the air, a visionary project; a baseless scheme; an
air castle; -- sometimes called a castle in Spain (F. Château en
Espagne).

Syn.
 -- Fortress; fortification; citadel; stronghold. See Fortress.

CASTLE
Cas"tle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Castled (. p. pr. & vb. n. Castling.]
(Chess)

Defn: To move the castle to the square next to king, and then the
king around the castle to the square next beyond it, for the purpose
of covering the king.

CASTLEBUILDER
Cas"tle*build`er, n.

Defn: Fig.: one who builds castles in the air or forms visionary
schemes.
 -- Cas"tle*build`ing, n.

CASTLED
Cas"tled, a.

Defn: Having a castle or castles; supporting a castle; as, a castled
height or crag.

2. Fortified; turreted; as, castled walls.

CASTLE-GUARD
Cas"tle-guard`, n.

1. The guard or defense of a castle.

2. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A tax or imposition an a dwelling within a certain distance of
a castle, for the purpose of maintaining watch and ward in it;
castle-ward.

3. A feudal tenure, obliging the tenant to perform service within the
realm, without limitation of time.

CASTLERY
Cas"tle*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. castelerie. See Castle.]

Defn: The government of a castle. Blount.

CASTLET
Cas"tlet, n.

Defn: A small castle. Leland.

CASTLEWARD
Cas"tle*ward`, n.

Defn: Same as Castleguard.

CASTLING
Cast"ling, n.

Defn: That which is cast or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.
Sir T. Browne.

CASTLING
Cas"tling, n. (Chess)

Defn: A compound move of the king and castle. See Castle, v. i.

CAST-OFF
Cast"-off`, a.

Defn: Cast or laid aside; as, cast-off clothes.

CASTOR
Cas"tor, n. Etym: [L. castor the beaver, Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of rodents, including the beaver. See Beaver.

2. Castoreum. See Castoreum.

3. A hat, esp. one made of beaver fur; a beaver.
I have always been known for the jaunty manner in which I wear my
castor. Sir W. Scott.

4. A heavy quality of broadcloth for overcoats.

CASTOR
Cast"or, n.

Defn: See Caster, a small wheel.

CASTOR
Cas"tor, n. Etym: [L.] (Astron.)

Defn: the northernmost of the two bright stars in the constellation
Gemini, the other being Pollux.

CASTOR; CASTORITE
Cas"tor, Cas"tor*ite, n. Etym: [The minerals castor and pollux were
so named because found together on the island of Elba. See Castor and
Pollux.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of the mineral called petalite, from Elba.

CASTOR AND POLLUX
Cas"tor and Pol"lux. Etym: [Castor and Pollux were twin sons of
Jupiter and Leda.] (Naut.)

Defn: See Saint Elmo's fire, under Saint.

CASTOR BEAN
Cas"tor bean". (Bot.)

Defn: The bean or seed of the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or
Palma Christi.)

CASTOREUM
Cas*to"re*um, n. Etym: [L. See Castor.]

Defn: A peculiar bitter orange-brown substance, with strong,
penetrating odor, found in two sacs between the anus and external
genitals of the beaver; castor; -- used in medicine as an
antispasmodic, and by perfumers.

CASTORIN
Cas"to*rin, n. Etym: [From 1st Castor.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance obtained from castoreum.

CASTOR OIL
Cas"tor oil.

Defn: A mild cathartic oil, expressed or extracted from the seeds of
the Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi. When fresh the oil is
inodorus and insipid. Castor-oil plant. Same as Palma Christi.

CASTRAMETATION
Cas`tra*me*ta"tion, n. Etym: [F. castramétation, fr. L. castra camp +
metari to measure off, fr. meta limit.] (Mil.)

Defn: The art or act of encamping; the making or laying out of a
camp.

CASTRATE
Cas"trate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Castrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Castrating.] Etym: [L. castrarus, p; p. of castrare to castrate, asin
to Skr. çastra knife.]

1. To deprive of the testicles; to emasculate; to geld; to alter.

2. To cut or take out; esp. to remove anything erroneous, or
objectionable from, as the obscene parts of a writing; to expurgate.
My . . . correspondent . . . has sent me the following letter, which
I have castrated in some places. Spectator.

CASTRATION
Cas*tra"tion, n. Etym: [L. castratio; cf. F. castration.]

Defn: The act of castrating.

CASTRATO
Cas*tra"to, n. Etym: [L., properly p. p. of castrare. See Castrate.]

Defn: A male person castrated for the purpose of improving his voice
for singing; an artificial, or male, soprano. Swift.

CASTREL
Cas"trel, n. Etym: [Cf. F. crécerelle, cristel, OF. crecel, cercele.
Cf. Kestrel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Kestrel.

CASTRENSIAL
Cas*tren"sial, a. Etym: [L. castrensis, fr. castra camp.]

Defn: Belonging to a camp. Sir T. Browne.

CASTRENSIAN
Cas*tren"sian, a.

Defn: Castrensial. [R.]

CAST STEEL
Cast" steel".

Defn: See Cast steel, under Steel.

CASUAL
Cas"u*al, a. Etym: [OE. casuel, F. casuel, fr. L. casualis, fr. casus
fall, accident, fr. cadere to fall. See Case.]

1. Happening or coming to pass without design, and without being
foreseen or expected; accidental; fortuitous; coming by chance.
Casual breaks, in the general system. W. Irving.

2. Coming without regularity; occasional; incidental; as, casual
expenses.
A constant habit, rather than a casual gesture. Hawthorne.

Syn.
 -- Accidental; fortutious; incidental; occasional; contingent;
unforeseen. See Accidental.

CASUAL
Cas"u*al, n.

Defn: One who receives relief for a night in a parish to which he
does not belong; a vagrant.

CASUALISM
Cas"u*al*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine that all things exist or are controlled by chance.

CASUALIST
Cas"u*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who believes in casualism.

CASUALLY
Cas"u*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Without design; accidentally; fortuitously; by chance;
occasionally.

CASUALNESS
Cas"u*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being casual.

CASUALTY
Cas"u*al*ty, n.; pl. Casualties. Etym: [F. casualité, LL.
casualitas.]

1. That which comes without design or without being foreseen;
contingency.
Losses that befall them by mere casualty. Sir W. Raleigh.

2. Any injury of the body from accident; hence, death, or other
misfortune, occasioned by an accident; as, an unhappy casualty.

3. pl. (Mil. & Naval)

Defn: Numerical loss caused by death, wounds, discharge, or
desertion. Casualty ward, A ward in a hospital devoted to the
treatment of injuries received by accident.

Syn.
 -- Accident; contingency; fortuity; misfortune.

CASUARINA
Cas`u*a*ri"na, n. Etym: [NL., supposed to be named from the
resemblance of the twigs to the feathers of the cassowary, of the
genus Casuarius.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of leafles trees or shrubs, with drooping branchlets of
a rushlike appearance, mostly natives of Australia. Some of them are
large, producing hard and heavy timber of excellent quality, called
beefwood from its color.

CASUIST
Cas"u*ist, n. Etym: [L. casus fall, case; cf. F. casuiste. See
Casual.]

Defn: One who is skilled in, or given to, casuistry.
The judment of any casuist or learned divine concerning the state of
a man's soul, is not sufficient to give him confidence. South.

CASUIST
Cas"u*ist, v. i.

Defn: To play the casuist. Milton.

CASUISTIC; CASUISTICAL
Cas`u*is"tic, Cas`u*is"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to casuists or casuistry.

CASUISTRY
Cas"u*ist*ry, a.

1. The science or doctrine of dealing with cases of conscience, of
resolving questions of right or wrong in conduct, or determining the
lawfulness or unlawfulness of what a man may do by rules and
principles drawn from the Scriptures, from the laws of society or the
church, or from equity and natural reason; the application of general
moral rules to particular cases.
The consideration of these nice and puzzling question in the science
of ethics has given rise, in modern times, to a particular department
of it, distinguished by the title of casuistry. Stewart.
Casuistry in the science of cases (i.e., oblique deflections from the
general rule). De Quincey.

2. Sophistical, equivocal, or false reasoning or teaching in regard
to duties, obligations, and morals.

CASUS
Ca"sus, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: An event; an occurrence; an occasion; a combination of
circumstances; a case; an act of God. See the Note under Accident.
Casus belli, an event or combination of events which is a cause war,
or may be alleged as a justification of war.
 -- Casus fortuitus, an accident against which due prudence could not
have provided. See Act of God, under Act.
 -- Casus omissus, a case not provided for by the statute.

CAT
Cat, n. Etym: [AS. cat; akin to D. & Dan. kat, Sw. kett, Icel. köttr,
G. katze, kater, Ir. Cat, W. cath, Armor. kaz, LL. catus, Bisc.
catua, NGr cot, Turk. kedi, Ar. qitt; of unknown origin. CF. Ketten.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal of various species of the genera Felis and Lynx. The
domestic cat is Felis domestica. The European wild cat (Felis catus)
is much larger than the domestic cat. In the United States the name
wild cat is commonly applied to the bay lynx (Lynx rufus) See Wild
cat, and Tiger cat.

Note: The domestic cat includes many varieties named from their place
of origin or from some peculiarity; as, the Angora cat; the Maltese
cat; the Manx cat.

Note: The word cat is also used to designate other animals, from some
fancied resemblance; as, civet cat, fisher cat, catbird, catfish
shark, sea cat.

2. (Naut.)
(a) A strong vessel with a narrow stern, projecting quarters, and
deep waist. It is employed in the coal and timber trade.
(b) A strong tackle used to draw an anchor up to the cathead of a
ship. Totten.

3. A double tripod (for holding a plate, etc.), having six feet, of
which three rest on the ground, in whatever position in is placed.

4. An old game; (a) The game of tipcat and the implement with which
it is played. See Tipcat. (c) A game of ball, called, according to
the number of batters, one old cat, two old cat, etc.

5. A cat o' nine tails. See below. Angora cat, blind cat, See under
Angora, Blind.
 -- Black cat the fisher. See under Black.
 -- Cat and dog, like a cat and dog; quarrelsome; inharmonius. "I am
sure we have lived a cat and dog life of it." Coleridge.
 -- Cat block (Naut.), a heavy iron-strapped block with a large hook,
part of the tackle used in drawing an anchor up to the cathead.
 -- Cat hook (Naut.), a strong hook attached to a cat block.
 -- Cat nap, a very short sleep. [Colloq.] -- Cat o' nine tails, an
instrument of punishment consisting of nine pieces of knotted line or
cord fastened to a handle; -- formerly used to flog offenders on the
bare back.
 -- Cat's cradle, game played, esp. by children, with a string looped
on the fingers so, as to resemble small cradle. The string is
transferred from the fingers of one to those of another, at each
transfer with a change of form. See Cratch, Cratch cradle.
 -- To let the cat out of the bag, to tell a secret, carelessly or
willfully. [Colloq.] -- Bush cat, the serval. See Serval.

CAT
Cat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. tted; p. pr. & vb. n. Catting.] (Naut.)

Defn: To bring to the cathead; as, to cat an anchor. See Anchor.
Totten.

CATA
Cat"a. Etym: [Gr. kata`.]

Defn: The Latin and English form of a Greek preposition, used as a
prefix to signify down, downward, under, against, contrary or opposed
to, wholly, completely; as in cataclysm, catarrh. It sometimes drops
the final vowel, as in catoptric; and is sometimes changed to cath,
as in cathartic, catholic.

CATABAPTIST
Cat`a*bap"tist, n. Etym: [Pref. cata + aptist. See Baptist.] (Eccl.)

Defn: One who opposes baptism, especially of infants. [Obs.] Featley.

CATABASION
Cat`a*ba"sion, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A vault under altar of a Greek church.

CATABIOTIC
Cat`a*bi*ot"ic, a.

Defn: Aee under Force.

CATACAUSTIC
Cat`a*caus"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. cata + caustic.] (Physics)

Defn: Relating to, or having the properties of, a caustic curve
formed by reflection. See Caustic, a. Nichol.

CATACAUSTIC
Cat`a*caus"tic, n. (Physics)

Defn: A caustic curve formed by reflection of light. Nichol.

CATACHRESIS
Cat`a*chre"sis, n. Etym: [L. fr. Gr. (Rhel.)

Defn: A figure by which one word is wrongly put for another, or by
which a word is wrested from its true signification; as, "To take
arms against a sea of troubles. " Shak. "Her voice was but the shadow
of a sound." Young.

CATACHRESTIC; CATACHRESTICAL
Cat`a*chres"tic, Cat"a*chres"tic*al, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or in the manner of, a catachresis; wrested from
its natural sense or form; forced; far-fatched.
 -- Cat`a*chres"tic*al*ly, adv.
[A] catachrestical and improper way of speaking. Jer. Taylor.

CATACLASM
Cat"a*clasm, n. [Gr. ;  down +  to break.]

Defn: A breaking asunder; disruption.

CATACLYSM
Cat"a*clysm, n. Etym: [L. cataclysmos, Gr. cataclysme.]

1. An extensive overflow or sweeping flood of water; a deluge.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Any violent catastrophe, involving sudden and extensive changes
of the earth's surface.

CATACLYSMAL; CATACLYSMIC
Cat`a*clys"mal, Cat"a*clys"mic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cataclysm.

CATACLYSMIST
Cat`a*clys"mist, n.

Defn: One who believes that the most important geological phenomena
have been produced by cataclysms.

CATACOMB
Cat"a*comb, n. Etym: [It. catacomba, fr. L. catacumba perh. from Gr.

Defn: A cave, grotto, or subterraneous place of large extent used for
the burial of the dead; -- commonly in the plural.

Note: The terms is supposed to have been applied originally to the
tombs under the church of St. Sebastain in Rome. The most celebrated
catacombs are those near Rome, on the Appian Way, supposed to have
been the place or refuge and interment of the early Chrictians; those
of Egypt, extending for a wide distance in the vicinity of Cairo; and
those of Paris, in abandoned stone quarries, excavated under a large
portion of the city.

CATACOUSTIC
Cat`a*cous"tic, n. Etym: [Pref. cata _ acoustics: cf. F.
caraconstique.] (Physics)

Defn: That part of acoustics which treats of reflected sounds or
echoes See Acoustics. Hutton.

CATACROTIC
Cat`a*crot"ic, a.  [Cata- + Gr.  a beating.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Designating, pertaining to, or characterized by, that form of
pulse tracing, or sphygmogram, in which the descending portion of the
curve is marked by secondary elevations due to two or more expansions
of the artery in the same beat. -- Ca*tac"rotism (#), n.

CATADICROTISM
Cat`a*di"cro*tism, n.  [Cata-+ dicrotism.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Quality or state of being catacrotic. -- Cat`a*di*crot"ic (#),
a.

CATADIOPTRIC; CATADIOPTRICAL
Cat`a*di*op"tric, Cat`a*di*op"tric*al, a. Etym: [Pref. cata +
dioptric: cf. F. catadioptrique.] (Physics)

Defn: Pertaining to, produced by, or involving, both the reflection
and refraction of light; as, a catadioptric light. Hutton.

CATADIOPTRICS
Cat`a*di*op"trics, n.

Defn: The science which treats of catadioptric phenomena, or of the
used of catadioptric instruments.

CATADROME
Cat"a*drome, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A race course.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A machine for raising or lowering heavy weights.

CATADROMOUS
Ca*tad"ro*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the lowest inferior segment of a pinna nearer the rachis
than the lowest superior one; -- said of a mode of branching in
ferns, and opposed to anadromous.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Living in fresh water, and going to the sea to spawn; --
opposed to anadromous, and of the eel.

CATAFALCO
Cat`a*fal"co, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: See Catafalque.

CATAFALQUE
Cat"a*falque`, n. Etym: [F., fr. It. catafalco, scaffold, funeral
canopy; of uncertain origin; cf. Sp. catafalso, cadahalso, cadalso,
Pr. casafalc, OF. chafaut. Cf. Scaffold.]

Defn: A temporary structure sometimes used in the funeral solemnities
of eminent persons, for the public exhibition of the remains, or
their conveyance to the place of burial.

CATAGMATIC
Cat`*ag*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. catagmatique.] (Med.)

Defn: Having the quality of consolidating broken bones.

CATAIAN
Ca*ta"ian, n.

Defn: A native of Cathay or China; a foreigner; -- formerly a term of
reproach. Shak.

CATALAN
Cat"a*lan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Catalonia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inbabitant of Catalonia; also, the language of
Catalonia. Catalan furnace, Catalan forge (Metal.), a kind of furnace
for producing wrought iron directly from the ore. It was formerly
much used, esp. in Catalonia, and is still used in some parts of the
United States and elsewhere.

CATALECTIC
Cat`a*lec"tic, a. Etym: [L. catalecticus, Gr.

1. (Pros.)

Defn: Wanting a syllable at the end, or terminating in an imperfect
foot; as, a catalectic verse.

2. (Photog. & Chem.)

Defn: Incomplete; partial; not affecting the whole of a substance.
Abney.

CATALEPSY; CATALEPSIS
Cat"a*lep`sy, Cat`a*lep"sis, n. Etym: [NL. catalepsis, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A sudden suspension of sensation and volition, the body and
limbs preserving the position that may be given them, while the
action of the heart and lungs continues.

CATALEPTIC
Cat`a*lep"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, catalepsy; affected with
catalepsy; as, a cataleptic fit.

CATALLACTA
Cat`al*lac"ta, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Catallactics.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Protozoa, of which Magosphæra is the type. They
exist both in a myxopod state, with branched pseudopodia, and in the
form of ciliated bodies united in free, spherical colonies.

CATALLACTICS
Cat`al*lac"tics n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The science of exchanges, a branch of political economy.

CATALOG
Cat"a*log, n. & v.

Defn: Catalogue.

CATALOGIZE
Cat"a*lo*gize, v. t.

Defn: To insert in a catalogue; to register; to catalogue. [R.]
Coles.

CATALOGUE
Cat"a*logue, n. Etym: [F., fr. catalogus, fr. Gr.

Defn: A list or enumeration of names, or articles arranged
methodically, often in alphabetical order; as, a catalogue of the
students of a college, or of books, or of the stars. Card catalogue,
a catalogue, as of books, having each item entered on a separate
card, and the cards arranged in cases by subjects, or authors, or
alphabetically.
 -- Catalogue raisonné Etym: [F.], a catalogue of books, etc.,
classed according to their subjects. Syn.
 -- List; roll; index; schedule; enumeration; inventory. See List.

CATALOGUE
Cat"a*logue, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Catalogued; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cataloguing.]

Defn: To make a list or catalogue; to insert in a catalogue.

CATALOGUER
Cat"a*log`uer, n.

Defn: A maker of catalogues; esp. one skilled in the making of
catalogues.

CATALPA
Ca*tal"pa, n. Etym: [From the language of the Indians of Carolina,
where Catesby discovered this tree in the year 1726.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of American and East Indian trees, of which the best
know species are the Catalpa bignonioides, a large, ornamental North
American tree, with spotted white flowers and long cylindrical pods,
and the C. speciosa, of the Mississipi valley; -- called also Indian
bean.

CATALYSIS
Ca*tal"y*sis, n.; pl. Catalyse. Etym: [ML., fr. Gr.

1. Dissolution; degeneration; decay. [R.]
Sad catalysis and declension of piety. Evelyn.

2. (Chem.)
(a) A process by which reaction occurs in the presence of certain
agents which were formerly believed to exert an influence by mere
contact. It is now believed that such reactions are attended with the
formation of an intermediate compound or compounds, so that by
alternate composition and decomposition the agent is apparenty left
unchanged; as, the catalysis of making ether from alcohol by means of
sulphuric acid; or catalysis in the action of soluble ferments (as
diastase, or ptyalin) on starch.
(b) The catalytic force.

CATALYTIC
Cat`a*ly"tic, a.

Defn: Relating to, or causing, catalysis. "The catalytic power is ill
understood." Ure. Catalytic force, that form of chemical energy
formerly supposed to determine catalysis.

CATALYTIC
Cat`a*lyt"ic, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An agent employed in catalysis, as platinum black, aluminium
chloride, etc.

CATAMARAN
Cat`a*ma*ran", n. Etym: [The native East Indian name.]

1. A kind of raft or float, consisting of two or more logs or pieces
of wood lashed together, and moved by paddles or sail; -- used as a
surf boat and for other purposes on the coasts of the East and West
Indies and South America. Modified forms are much used in the lumber
regions of North America, and at life-saving stations.

2. Any vessel with twin hulls, whether propelled by sails or by
steam; esp., one of a class of double-hulled pleasure boats
remarkable for speed.

3. A kind of fire raft or torpedo bat.
The incendiary rafts prepared by Sir Sidney Smith for destroying the
French flotilla at Boulogne, 1804, were called catamarans. Knight.

4. A quarrelsome woman; a scold. [Colloq.]

CATAMENIA
Cat`a*me"nia, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The monthly courses of women; menstrual discharges; menses.

CATAMENIAL
Cat`a*me"ni*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the catamenia, or menstrual discharges.

CATAMITE
Cat"a*mite, n. Etym: [L. Catamitus, an old form of Ganymedes
Ganymede, Gr.

Defn: A boy kept for unnatural purposes.

CATAMOUNT
Cat"a*mount, n. Etym: [Cat + mount; cf. Sp. gato mentes mountain
cat.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cougar. Applied also, in some parts of the United States,
to the lynx.

CATANADROMOUS
Cat"a*nad`ro*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Ascending and descending fresh streams from and to the sea, as
the salmon; anadromous. [R.]

CATAPASM
Cat"a*pasm, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A compound medicinal powder, used by the ancients to sprinkle
on ulcers, to absorb perspiration, etc. Dunglison.

CATAPELTIC
Cat`a*pel"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a catapult.

CATAPETALOUS
Cat`a*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. cata + petalous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the petals held together by stamens, which grow to their
bases, as in the mallow.

CATAPHONIC
Cat`a*phon"ic, a.

Defn: Of or relating to cataphonics; catacoustic.

CATAPHONICS
Cat`a*phon"ics, n. Etym: [Pref. cata + phonic: cf. F. cataphonique.]
(Physics)

Defn: That branch of acoustics which treats of reflested sounds;
catacoustics.

CATAPHRACT
Cat"a*phract, n. Etym: [L. cataphractes, Gr.

1. (Mil. Antiq.)

Defn: Defensive armor used for the whole body and often for the
horse, also, esp. the linked mail or scale armor of some eastern
nations.

2. A horseman covered with a cataphract.
Archers and slingers, cataphracts, and spears. Milton.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The armor or plate covering some fishes.

CATAPHRACTED
Cat"a*phract`ed, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Covered with a cataphract, or armor of plates, scales, etc.; or
with that which corresponds to this, as horny or bony plates, hard,
callous skin, etc.

CATAPHRACTIC
Cat`a*phrac"tic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cataphract.

CATAPHYSICAL
Cat`a*phys"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. cata + physical.]

Defn: Unnatural; contrary to nature. [R.]
Some artists . . . have given to Sir Walter Scott a pile of forehead
which is unpleassing and cataphysical. De Quincey.

CATAPLASM
Cat"a*plasm, n. Etym: [L. cataplasma, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A soft and moist substance applied externally to some part of
the body; a poultice. Dunglison.

CATAPLEXY
Cat"a*plex`y, n. [Gr.  amazement: cf. Apoplexy.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition caused by an overwhelming shock or extreme
fear and marked by rigidity of the muscles. -- Cat`a*plec"tic (#), a.

CATAPUCE
Cat"a*puce, n. Etym: [F.] (Bot.)

Defn: Spurge. [Obs.]

CATAPULT
Cat"a*pult, n. Etym: [L. catapulta, Gr.

1. (Mil. Antiq.)

Defn: An engine somewhat resembling a massive crossbow, used by the
ancient Greeks and Romans for throwing stones, arrows, spears, etc.

2. A forked stick with elasti band for throwing small stones, etc.

CATARACT
Cat"a*ract, n. Etym: [L. cataracta, catarracles, a waterfall, Gr.

1. A great fall of water over a precipice; a large waterfall.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: An opacity of the crystalline lens, or of its capsule, which
prevents the passage of the rays of light and impairs or destroys the
sight.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: A kind of hydraulic brake for regulating the action of pumping
engines and other machines; -- sometimes called dashpot.

CATARACTOUS
Cat`a*rac"tous, a.

Defn: Of the nature of a cataract in the eye; affected with cataract.

CATARRH
Ca*tarrh", n. Etym: [L. catarrhus, Gr. Stream.] (Med.)

Defn: An inflammatory affection of any mucous membrane, in which
there are congestion, swelling, and an altertion in the quantity and
quality of mucus secreted; as catarrh of the stomach; catarrh of the
bladder.

Note: In America, the term catarrh is applied especially to a chronic
inflammation of, and hypersecretion fron, the membranes of the nose
or air passages; in England, to an acute influenza, resulting a cold,
and attended with cough, thirst, lassitude, and watery eyes; also, to
the cold itself.

CATARRHAL
Ca*tarrh"al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, produced by, or attending, catarrh; of the
nature of catarrh.

CATARRHINE
Cat"ar*rhine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Catarrhina, a division of Quadrumana, including the
Old World monkeys and apes which have the nostrils close together and
turned downward. See Monkey.

CATARRHOUS
Ca*tarrh"ous, a.

Defn: Catarrhal. [R.]

CATASTALTIC
Cat`a*stal"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Checking evacutions through astringent or styptic qualities.

CATASTASIS
Ca*tas"ta*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Rhet.)

Defn: That part of a speech, usually the exordium, in which the
orator sets forth the subject matter to be discussed.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The state, or condition of anything; constitution; habit of
body.

CATASTERISM
Ca*tas"ter*ism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A placing among the stars; a catalogue of stars.
The catasterisms of Eratosthenes. Whewell.

CATASTROPHE
Ca*tas"tro*phe, n. Etym: [L. catastropha, Gr.

1. An event producing a subversion of the order or system of things;
a final event, usually of a calamitous or disastrous nature; hence,
sudden calamity; great misfortune.
The strange catastrophe of affairs now at London. Bp. Buret.
The most horrible and portentous catastrophe that nature ever yet
saw. Woodward.

2. The final event in a romance or a dramatic piece; a denouement, as
a death in a tragedy, or a marriage in a comedy.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: A violent and widely extended change in the surface of the
earth, as, an elevation or subsidence of some part of it, effected by
internal causes. Whewell.

CATASTROPHIC
Cat`a*stroph"ic, a.

Defn: Of a pertaining to a catastrophe. B. Powell.

CATASTROPHISM
Ca*tas"tro*phism, n. (Geol.)

Defn: The doctrine that the geological changes in the earth's crust
have been caused by the sudden action of violent physical causes; --
opposed to the doctrine of uniformism.

CATASTROPHIST
Ca*tas"tro*phist, n. (Geol.)

Defn: One who holds the theory or catastrophism.

CATAWBA
Ca*taw"ba, n.

1. A well known light red variety of American grape.

2. A light-colored, sprightly American wine from the Catawba grape.

CATAWBAS
Ca*taw"bas, n. pl.

Defn: ; sing. Catawba. (Ethnol.) An appalachian tribe of Indians
which originally inhabited the regions near the Catawba river and the
head waters of the Santee.

CATBIRD
Cat"bird, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American bird (Galeoscoptes Carolinensis), allied to the
mocking bird, and like it capable of imitating the notes of other
birds, but less perfectly. Its note resembles at times the mewing of
a cat.

CATBOAT
Cat"boat`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A small sailboat, with a single mast placed as far forward as
possible, carring a sail extended by a graff and long boom. See
Illustration in Appendix.

CATCALL
Cat"call`, n.

Defn: A sound like the cry of a cat, such as is made in playhouses to
express dissatisfaction with a play; also, a small shrill instrument
for making such a noise.
Upon the rising of the curtain. I was very much surprised with the
great consort of catcalls which was exhibited. Addison.

CATCH
Catch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Caught or Catched (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Catching. Catched is rarely used.] Etym: [OE. cacchen, OF. cachier,
dialectic form of chacier to hunt, F. chasser, fr. (assumend) LL.
captiare, for L. capture, V. intens. of capere to take, catch. See
Capacious, and cf. Chase, Case a box.]

1. To lay hold on; to seize, especially with the hand; to grasp
(anything) in motion, with the effect of holding; as, to catch a
ball.

2. To seize after pursuing; to arrest; as, to catch a thief. "They
pursued . . . and caught him." Judg. i. 6.

3. To take captive, as in a snare or net, or on a hook; as, to catch
a bird or fish.

4. Hence: To insnare; to entangle. "To catch him in his words". Mark
xii. 13.

5. To seize with the senses or the mind; to apprehend; as, to catch a
melody. "Fiery thoughts . . . whereof I catch the issue." Tennyson.

6. To communicate to; to fasten upon; as, the fire caught the
adjoining building.

7. To engage and attach; to please; to charm.
The soothing arts that catch the fair. Dryden.

8. To get possession of; to attain.
Torment myself to catch the English throne. Shak.

9. To take or receive; esp. to take by sympathy, contagion,
infection, or exposure; as, to catch the spirit of an occasion; to
catch the measles or smallpox; to catch cold; the house caught fire.

10. To come upon unexpectedly or by surprise; to find; as, to catch
one in the act of stealing.

11. To reach in time; to come up with; as, to catch a train. To catch
fire, to become inflamed or ignited.
 -- to catch it to get a scolding or beating; to suffer punishment.
[Colloq.] -- To catch one's eye, to interrupt captiously while
speaking. [Colloq.] "You catch me up so very short." Dickens.
 -- To catch up, to snatch; to take up suddenly.

CATCH
Catch, v. i.

1. To attain possession. [Obs.]
Have is have, however men do catch. Shak.

2. To be held or impeded by entanglement or a light obstruction; as,
a kite catches in a tree; a door catches so as not to open.

3. To take hold; as, the bolt does not catch.

4. To spread by, or as by, infecting; to communicate.
Does the sedition catch from man to man Addison.
To catch at, to attempt to seize; to be egger to get or use. "[To]
catch at all opportunities of subverting the state." Addison.
 -- To catch up with, to come up with; to overtake.

CATCH
Catch, n.

1. Act of seizing; a grasp. Sir P. Sidney.

2. That by which anything is caught or temporarily fastened; as, the
catch of a gate.

3. The posture of seizing; a state of preparation to lay hold of, or
of watching he opportunity to seize; as, to lie on the catch.
[Archaic] Addison.
The common and the canon law . . . lie at catch, and wait advantages
one againt another. T. Fuller.

4. That which is caught or taken; profit; gain; especially, the whole
quantity caught or taken at one time; as, a good catch of fish.
Hector shall have a great catch if he knock out either of your
brains. Shak.

5. Something desirable to be caught, esp. a husband or wife in
matrimony. [Colloq.] Marryat.

6. pl.

Defn: Passing opportunities seized; snatches.
It has been writ by catches with many intervals. Locke.

7. A slight remembrance; a trace.
We retain a catch of those pretty stories. Glanvill.

8. (Mus.)

Defn: A humorous canon or round, so contrived that the singers catch
up each other's words.

CATCHABLE
Catch"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being caught. [R.]

CATCH-BASIN
Catch"-ba`sin, n.

Defn: A cistern or vault at the point where a street gutter
discharges into a sewer, to oatch bulky matters which would not pass
readly throught the sewer. Knight.

CATCH CROP
Catch crop.

Defn: Any crop grown between the rows of another crop or intermediate
between two crops in ordinary rotation in point of time. -- Catch"-
crop`ping, n.

Radishes . . . are often grown as a catch crop with other vegetables.
L. H. Bailey.

CATCHDRAIN
Catch"drain`, n.

Defn: A dich or drain along the side of a hill to catch the surface
water; also, a ditch at the side of a canal to catch the surplus
water.

CATCHER
Catch"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, catches.

2. (Baseball)

Defn: The player who stands behind the batsman to catch the ball.

CATCHFLY
Catch"fly, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant with the joints of the stem, and sometimes other parts,
covered with a viscid secretion to which small insects adhere. The
species of Silene are examples of the catchfly.

CATCHING
Catch"ing a.

1. Infections; contagious.

2. Captavating; alluring.

CATCHING
Catch"ing, n.

Defn: The act of seizing or taking hold of Catching bargain (Law), a
bargain made with an heir expectant for the purchase of his
expectancy at an inadequate price. Bouvier.

CATCH-MEADOW
Catch"-mead`ow, n.

Defn: meadow irrigated by water from a spring or rivulet on the side
of hill.

CATCHMENT
Catch"ment, n.

Defn: A surface of ground on which water may be caught and collected
into a reservoir.

CATCHPENNY
Catch"pen*ny, a.

Defn: Made or contrived for getting small sums of money from the
ignorant or unwary; as, a catchpenny book; a catchpenny show.
 -- n.

Defn: Some worthless catchpenny thing.

CATCHPOLL
Catch"poll`, n. Etym: [OF. chacepol, chacipol.]

Defn: A bailiff's assistant.

CATCH TITLE
Catch title.

Defn: A short expressive title used for abbreviated book lists, etc.

CATCHUP; CATSUP
Catch"up, Cat"sup, n. Etym: [Probably of East Indian origin, because
it was originally a kind of East Indian pickles.]

Defn: A table sauce made from mushrooms, tomatoes, walnuts, etc.
[Written also ketchup.]

CATCHWATER
Catch"wa`ter, n.

Defn: A ditch or drain for catching water. See Catchdrain.

CATCHWEED
Catch"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Cleavers.

CATCHWEIGHT
Catch"weight`, adv. (Horseracing)

Defn: Without any additional weight; without being handicapped; as,
to ride catchweight.

CATCHWORD
Catch"word`, n.

1. Among theatrical performers, the last word of the preceding
speaker, which reminds one that he is to speak next; cue.

2. (Print.)

Defn: The first word of any page of a book after the first, inserted
at the right hand bottom corner of the preceding page for the
assistance of the reader. It is seldom used in modern printing.

3. A word or phrase caught up and repeated for effect; as, the
catchword of a political party, etc.

CATCHWORK
Catch"work`, n.

Defn: A work or artificial watercourse for throwing water on lands
that lie on the slopes of hills; a catchdrain.

CATCHY
Catch"y, a.

1. Apt or tending to catch the fancy or attention; catching; taking;
as, catchy music.

2.  Tending to catch or insnare; entangling; -- usually used fig.;
as, a catchy question.

3.  Consisting of, or occuring in, disconnected parts or snatches;
changeable; as, a catchy wind.

It [the fox's scent] is . . . flighty or catchy, if variable.
Encyc. of Sport.

CATE
Cate, n.

Defn: Food. [Obs.] See Cates.

CATECHETIC; CATECHETICAL
Cat`e*chet"ic, Cat`e*chet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Catechise.]

Defn: Relating to or consisting in, asking questions and receiving
answers, according to the ancient manner of teaching.
Socrates introduced a catechetical method of arguing. Addison.

CATECHETICALLY
Cat`e*chet"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a catechetical manner; by question and answer.

CATECHETICS
Cat`e*chet"ics, n.

Defn: The science or practice of instructing by questions and
answers.

CATECHIN
Cat"e*chin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of the tannic acids, extracted from catechu as a white,
crystaline substance; -- called also catechuic acid, and catechuin.

CATECHISATION
Cat`e*chi*sa"tion, n. Etym: [LL. catechizatio.]

Defn: The act of catechising.

CATECHISE
Cat"e*chise, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Catechised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Catechising.] Etym: [L. catechizare, Gr.

1. To instruct by asking questions, receiving answeres, and offering
explanations and corrections, -- esp. in regard to points of
religious faith.

2. To question or interrogate; to examine or try by questions; --
sometimes with a view to reproof, by eliciting from a person answers
which condemn his own conduct. Swift.

CATECHISER
Cat"e*chi`ser, n.

Defn: One who catechises.

CATECHISM
Cat"e*chism, n. Etym: [L. catechismus, fr. Gr. See Catechise.]

1. A form of instruction by means of questions answers.

2. A book containing a summary of principles, especially of religious
doctrine, reduced to the form of questions and answers.
The Jews, even till this day, have their catechisms. Hooker.
The Larger Catechism, The Shorter Catechism. See Westminster
Assembly, under Assembly.

CATECHISMAL
Cat`e*chis"mal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a catechism, having the form of questions
and answers; catechical.

CATECHIST
Cat"e*chist, n. Etym: [L. catechista, fr. Gr.]

Defn: One who instructs by question and answer, especially in
religions matters.

CATECHISTIC; CATECHISTICAL
Cat`e*chis"tic, Cat`e*chis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a catechist or to a catechism. Dr. H. More.

CATECHIZE
Cat"e*chize, v. t.

Defn: See Catechise.

CATECHU
Cat"e*chu, n. Etym: [See Cashoo.] (Chem.)

Defn: A dry, brown, astringent extract, obtained by decoction and
evaporation from the Acacia catechu, and several other plants growing
in India. It contains a large portion of tannin or tannic acid, and
is used in medicine and in the arts. It is also known by the names
terra japonica, cutch, gambier, etc. Ure. Dunglison.

CATECHUIC
Cat`e*chu"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to catechu or its derivatives. See catechin.

CATECHUMEN
Cat"e*chu`men, n. Etym: [L. catechunenus, Gr. Catechise.] (Eccl.)

Defn: One who is receiving rudimentary instruction in the doctrines
of Christianity; a neophyte; in the primitive church, one officially
recognized as a Christian, and admitted to instruction preliminary to
admission to full membership in the church.

CATECHUMENATE
Cat`e*chu"men*ate, n.

Defn: The state or condition of a catechumen or the time during which
one is a catechumen.

CATECHUMENICAL
Cat`e*chu*men"i*cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to catechumens; as, catechumenical
instructions.

CATECHUMENIST
Cat`e*chu"men*ist, n.

Defn: A catechumen. Bp. Morton.

CATEGOREMATIC
Cat`e*gor`e*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Category.] (Logic.)

Defn: Capable of being employed by itself as a term; -- said of a
word.

CATEGORICAL
Cat`e*gor"ic*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a category.

2. Not hypothetical or relative; admitting no conditions or
exceptions; declarative; absolute; positive; express; as, a
categorical proposition, or answer.
The scriptures by a multitude of categorical and intelligible
decisions . . . distinguish between the things seen and temporal and
those that are unseen and eternal. I. Taylor.

CATEGORICALLY
Cat`e*gor"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Absolutely; directly; expressly; positively; as, to affirm
categorically.

CATEGORICALNESS
Cat`e*gor"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being categorical, positive, or absolute. A.
Marvell.

CATEGORIST
Cat"e*go*rist, n.

Defn: One who inserts in a category or list; one who classifies.
Emerson.

CATEGORIZE
Cat"e*go*rize, v. t.

Defn: To insert in a category or list; to class; to catalogue.

CATEGORY
Cat"e*go*ry, n.; pl. Categories Etym: [L. categoria, Gr.

1. (Logic.)

Defn: One of the highest classes to which the objects of knowledge or
thought can be reduced, and by which they can be arranged in a
system; an ultimate or undecomposable conception; a predicament.
The categories or predicaments -- the former a Greek word, the latter
its literal translation in the Latin language -- were intended by
Aristotle and his followers as an enumeration of all things capable
of being named; an enumeration by the summa genera i.e., the most
extensive classes into which things could be distributed. J. S. Mill.

2. Class; also, state, condition, or predicament; as, we are both in
the same category.
There is in modern literature a whole class of writers standing
within the same category. De Quincey.

CATEL
Cat"el, n. Etym: [See Chattel.]

Defn: Property; -- often used by Chaucer in contrast with rent, or
income.
"For loss of catel may recovered be, But loss of tyme shendeth us,"
quod he. Chaucer.

CATELECTRODE
Cat`e*lec"trode, n. Etym: [Pref. cata + elecrode.] (Physics)

Defn: The negative electrode or pole of a voltaic battery. Faraday.

CATELECTROTONIC
Cat`e*lec`tro*ton"ic, a. (Physics)

Defn: Relating to, or characterized by, catelectrotonus.

CATELECTROTONUS
Cat`e*lec*trot"o*nus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Electro-) + (Physics)

Defn: The condition of increased irritability of a nerve in the
region of the cathode or negative electrode, on the passage of a
current of electricity through it.

CATENA
Ca*te"na, n.; pl. Catene. Etym: [L., a chain.]

Defn: A chain or series of things connected with each other.
I have . . . in no case sought to construct those catenæ of games,
which it seems now the fashion of commentators to link together. C.
J. Ellicott.

CATENARY; CATENARIAN
Cat"e*na*ry, Cat`e*na"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. catenarius, fr. catena a
chain. See Chain.]

Defn: Relating to a chain; like a chain; as, a catenary curve.

CATENARY
Cat"e*na*ry, n.; pl. Catenaries (. (Geol.)

Defn: The curve formed by a rope or chain of uniform density and
perfect flexibility, hanging freely between two points of suspension,
not in the same vertical line.

CATENATE
Cat"e*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Catenated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Catenating.] Etym: [L. catenatus, p. p. of catenare, fr. catena
chain. See Chain.]

Defn: To connect, in a series of links or ties; to chain. E. Darwin.

CATENATION
Cat`e*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. catenatio.]

Defn: Connection of links or union of parts, as in a chain; a regular
or connected series. See Concatenation. Sir T. Browne.

CATENULATE
Ca*ten"u*late, a. Etym: [L. catenuia, dim. of catena chain.]

1. Consisting of little links or chains.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Chainlike; -- said both or color marks and of indentations when
arranged like the links of a chain, as on shells, etc.

CATER
Ca"ter, n. Etym: [OE. catour purchaser, caterer, OF. acator, fr.
acater, F. acheter, to buy, provide, fr. LL. accaptare; L. ad +
captare to strive, to seize, intens, of capere to take, seize. Cf.
Acater, Capacious.]

Defn: A provider; a purveyor; a caterer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CATER
Ca"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Catered; p. pr. & vb. n. Catering.] Etym:
[From Cater, n.]

1. To provide food; to buy, procure, or prepare provisions.
[He] providently caters for the sparrow. Shak.

2. By extension: To supply what is needed or desired, at theatrical
or musical entertainments; -- followed by for or to.

CATER
Ca"ter, n. Etym: [F. quatre four.]

Defn: The four of cards or dice.

CATER
Ca"ter, v. t.

Defn: To cut diagonally. [Obs.] Halliwell.

CATERAN
Cat"e*ran, n. Etym: [Gael. ceatharnach. Cf. Kern Irish foot soldier.]

Defn: A Highland robber: a kind of irregular soldier. [Scot.] Sir W.
Scott.

CATER-CORNERED
Ca"ter-cor"nered, a. Etym: [Cf. Cater to cut diagonally.]

Defn: Diagonal. [Colloq.]

CATER-COUSIN
Ca"ter-cous`in, n.

Defn: A remote relation. See Quater-cousin. Shak.

CATERER
Ca"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who caters.
The little fowls in the air have God for Their provider and caterer.
Shelton.

CATERESS
Ca"ter*ess, n.

Defn: A woman who caters. Milton.

CATERPILLAR
Cat"er*pil`lar, n. Etym: [OE. catyrpel, corrupted fr. OF.
chatepelouse, or cate pelue, fr. chate, F. chatte, she-cat, fem. of
chat, L. catus + L. pilosus hairy, or F. pelu hairy, fr. L. pilus
hair. See Cat, and Pile hair.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larval state of a butterfly or any lepidopterous insect;
sometimes, but less commonly, the larval state of other insects, as
the sawflies, which are also called false caterpillars. The true
caterpillars have three pairs of true legs, and several pairs of
abdominal fleshy legs (prolegs) armed with hooks. Some are hairy,
others naked. They usually feed on leaves, fruit, and succulent
vegetables, being often very destructive, Many of them are popularly
called worms, as the cutworm, cankerworm, army worm, cotton worm,
silkworm.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Scorpiurus, with pods resembling
caterpillars. Caterpillar catcher, or Caterpillar eater (Zoöl.), a
bird belonging to the family of Shrikes, which feeds on caterpillars.
The name is also given to several other birds.
 -- Caterpillar hunter (Zoöl.), any species of beetles of the genus
Callosoma and other allied genera of the family Carabidæ which feed
habitually upon caterpillars.

CATERWAUL
Cat"er*waul, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caterwauled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Caterwauling.] Etym: [Cat + waul, wawl, to cry as a cat.]

Defn: To cry as cats in rutting time; to make a harsh, offensive
noise. Coleridge.

CATERWAUL
Cat"er*waul, n.

Defn: A caterwauling.

CATERWAULING
Cat"er*waul`ing, n.

Defn: The cry of cats; a harsh, disagreeable noise or cry like the
cry of cats. Shak.

CATERY
Ca"ter*y, n. Etym: [See Cater, n.]

Defn: The place where provisions are deposited. [Obs.]

CATES
Cates, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. Acates, and see Cater, n.]

Defn: Provisions; food; viands; especially, luxurious food;
delicacies; dainties. Shak.
Cates for which Apicius could not pay. Shurchill.
Choicest cates and the fiagon's best spilth. R. Browning.

CAT-EYED
Cat"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having eyes like a cat; hence, able to see in the dark.

CATFALL
Cat"fall`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A rope used in hoisting the anchor to the cathead. Totten.

CATFISH
Cat"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name given in the United States to various species of
siluroid fishes; as, the yellow cat (Amiurus natalis); the bind cat
(Gronias nigrilabrus); the mud cat (Pilodictic oilwaris), the stone
cat (Noturus flavus); the sea cat (Arius felis), etc. This name is
also sometimes applied to the wolf fish. See Bullhrad.

CATGUT
Cat"gut`, n. Etym: [Cat + gut.]

1. A cord of great toughness made from the intestines of animals,
esp. of sheep, used for strings of musical instruments, etc.

2. A sort of linen or canvas, with wide interstices.

CATHARINE WHEEL
Cath"a*rine wheel`.

Defn: See catherine wheel.

CATHARIST
Cath"a*rist, n. Etym: [LL. catharista, fr. Gr.

Defn: One aiming at or pretending to a greater purity of like than
others about him; -- applied to persons of various sects. See
Albigenses.

CAT-HARPIN
Cat"-harp`in, n.

Defn: See Cat-harping.

CAT-HARPING
Cat"-harp`ing n. (Naut.)

Defn: One of the short ropes or iron cramps used to brace in the
shrouds toward the masts so a to give freer sweep to the yards.

CATHARSIS
Ca*thar"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Cathartic.] (Med.)

Defn: A natural or artificial purgation of any passage, as of the
mouth, bowels, etc.

CATHARTIC; CATHARICAL
Ca*thar"tic, Ca*thar"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. chaste.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Cleansing the bowels; promoting evacuations by stool;
purgative.

2. Of or pertaining to the purgative principle of senna, as cathartic
acid.

CATHARTIC
Ca*thar"tic, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine that promotes alvine discharges; a purge; a
purgative of moderate activity.

Note: The cathartics are more energetic and certain in action that
the laxatives, which simply increase the tendency to alvine
evacuation; and less powerful and irritaint that the drastic purges,
which cause profuse, repeated, and watery evacuations.
 -- Ca*thar"tic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*thar"tic*al*ness, n.

CATHARTIN
ca*thar"tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The bitter, purgative principle of senna. It is a glucoside
with the properties of a weak acid; -- called also cathartic acid,
and cathartina.

CATHAY
Ca*thay", n.

Defn: China; -- an old name for the Celestial Empire, said have been
introduced by Marco Polo and to be a corruption of the Tartar name
for North China (Khitai, the country of the Khitans.)
Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay. Tennyson.

CATHEAD
Cat"head`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A projecting piece of timber or iron near the bow of vessel, to
which the anchor is hoisted and secured.

CATHEDRA
Cath"e*dra, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Chair.]

Defn: The official chair or throne of a bishop, or of any person in
high authority. Ex cathedra Etym: [L., from the chair], in the
exercise of one's office; with authority.
The Vatican Council declares that the Pope, is infallible "when he
speaks ex cathedra." Addis & Arnold's Cath. Dict.

CATHEDRAL
Ca*the"dral, n. Etym: [LL. cathedralis (sc. ecclesia): cf. F.
cathédrale. See Cathedra.]

Defn: The principal church in a diocese, so called because in it the
bishop has his official chair (Cathedra) or throne.

CATHEDRAL
Ca*the"dral, a. Etym: [LL. cathedralis: cf. F. cathédral.]

1. Pertaining to the head church of a diocese; as, a cathedral
church; cathedral service.

2. Emanating from the chair of office, as of a pope or bishop;
official; authoritative.
Now, what solemnity can be more required for the pope to make a
cathedral determination of an article! Jer. Taylor.

3. Resembling the aisles of a cathedral; as, cathedral walks. Pope.

CATHEDRALIC
Cath`e*dral"ic, a.

Defn: Cathedral. [R.]

CATHEDRATED
Cath`e*dra"ted, a. Etym: [From Cathedra.]

Defn: Relating to the chair or office of a teacher. [Obs.]

CATHERETIC
Cath`e*ret"ic, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A mild kind caustic used to reduce warts and other
excrescences. Dunglison.

CATHERINE WHEEL
Cath"er*ine wheel`. Etym: [So called from St. Catherine of
Alexandria, who is represented with a wheel, in allusion to her
martyrdom.]

1. (Geoth.Arth.)

Defn: Same as Rose window and Wheel window. Called also Catherine-
wheel window.

2. (Pyrotechny)

Defn: A revolving piece of fireworks resembling in form the window of
the same name. [Written also Catharine wheel.]

CATHETER
Cath"e*ter, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The name of various instruments for passing along mucous
canals, esp. applied to a tubular instrument to be introduced into
the bladder through the urethra to draw off the urine. Eustachian
catheter. See under Eustachian.
 -- Prostatic catheter, one adapted for passing an enlarged prostate.

CATHETERISM; CATHETERIZATION
Cath"e*ter*ism, Cath`e*ter*i*za"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: The operation of introducing a catheter.

CATHETERIZE
Cath"e*ter*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Catheterized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Catheterizing.] (Med.)

Defn: To operate on with a catheter. Dunglison.

CATHETOMETER
Cath`e*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [From Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for the accurate measurement of small differences
of height; esp. of the differences in the height of the upper
surfaces of two columns of mercury or other fluid, or of the same
column at different times. It consists of a telescopic leveling
apparatus (d), which slides up or down a perpendicular metallic
standard very finely graduated (bb). The telescope is raised or
depressed in order to sight the objects or surfaces, and the
differences in vertical height are thus shown on the graduated
standard. [Written also kathetometer.]

CATHETUS
Cath"e*tus, n.; pl. catheti. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Catheter.] (Geom.)

Defn: One line or radius falling perpendicularly on another; as, the
catheti of a right-angled triangle, that is, the two sides that
include the right angle. Barlow.

CATHODE
Cath"ode, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: The part of a voltaic battery by which the electric current
leaves substances through which it passes, or the surface at which
the electric current passes out of the electrolyte; the negative
pole; -- opposed to anode. Faraday. Cathode ray (Phys.), a kind of
ray generated at the cathode in a vacuum tube, by the electrical
discharge.

CATHODIC
Ca*thod"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: A term applied to the centrifugal, or efferent course of the
nervous infuence. Marshall Hall.

CATHODOGRAPH; CATHODEGRAPH
Ca*thod"o*graph, n. Also Ca*thod"e*graph. [Cathode + -graph.]
(Physics)

Defn: A picture produced by the Röntgen rays; a radiograph.

CAT-HOLE
Cat"-hole`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: One of two small holes astern, above the gunroom ports, through
which hawsers may be passed.

CATHOLIC
Cath"o*lic, a. Etym: [L. catholicus, Gr. solid: cf. F. catholique.]

1. Universal or general; as, the catholic faith.
Men of other countries [came] to bear their part in so great and
catholic a war. Southey.

Note: This epithet, which is applicable to the whole Christian
church, or its faith, is claimed by Roman Catholics to belong
especially to their church, and in popular usage is so limited.

2. Not narrow-minded, partial, or bigoted; liberal; as, catholic
tastes.

3. Of or pertaining to, or affecting the Roman Catholics; as, the
Catholic emancipation act. Catholic epistles, the espistles of the
apostles which are addressed to all the faithful, and not to a
particular church; being those of James, Peter, Jude, and John.

CATHOLIC
Cath"o*lic, n.

1. A person who accepts the creeds which are received in common by
all parts of the orthodox Christian church.

2. An adherent of the Roman Catholic church; a Roman Catholic. Old
Catholic, the name assumed in 1870 by members of the Roman Catholic
church, who denied the ecumenical character of the Vatican Council,
and Rejected its decrees, esp. that concerning the infallibility of
the pope, as contrary to the ancient Catholic faith.

CATHOLICAL
Ca*thol"i*cal, a.

Defn: Catholic. [Obs.]

CATHOLICISM
Ca*thol"i*cism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. catholicisme.]

1. The state or quality of being catholic or universal; catholicity.
Jer. Taylor.

2. Liberality of sentiment; breadth of view.

3. The faith of the whole orthodox Christian church, or adherence
thereto.

4. The doctrines or faith of the Roman Catholic church, or adherence
thereto.

CATHOLICITY
Cath`o*lic"i*ty, n.

1. The state or quality of being catholic; universality.

2. Liberality of sentiments; catholicism.

3. Adherence or conformity to the system of doctrine held by all
parts of the orthodox Christian church; the doctrine so held;
orthodoxy.

4. Adherence to the doctrines of the church of Rome, or the doctrines
themselves.

CATHOLICIZE
Ca*thol"i*cize, v. t. & i.

Defn: To make or to become catholic or Roman Catholic.

CATHOLICLY
Cath"o*lic*ly, adv.

Defn: In a catholic manner; generally; universally. Sir L. Cary.

CATHOLICNESS
Cath"o*lic*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being catholic; universality; catholicity.

CATHOLICON
Ca*thol"i*con, n. Etym: [Gr. Catholic.] (Med.)

Defn: A remedy for all diseases; a panacea.

CATHOLICOS
Ca*thol"i*cos, n. Etym: [NL. See Catholic.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The spiritual head of the Armenian church, who resides at
Etchmiadzin, Russia, and has ecclesiastical jurisdiction over, and
consecrates the holy oil for, the Armenians of Russia, Turkey, and
Persia, including the Patriarchs of Constantinople, Jerusalem, and
Sis.

Note: The Patriarch of Constantinople is the civil head of the
Armenians in Turkey.

CATILINARIAN
Cat`i*li*na"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Catilinarius.]

Defn: Pertaining to Catiline, the Roman conspirator; resembling
Catiline's conspiracy.

CATION
Cat"i*on, n. Etym: [Gr. p. pr. of (Chem.)

Defn: An electro-positive substance, which in electro-decomposition
is evolved at the cathode; -- opposed to anion. Faraday.

CATKIN
Cat"kin, n. Etym: [Cat + -kin.] (Bot.)

Defn: An ament; a species of inflorescence, consisting of a slender
axis with many unisexual apetalous flowers along its sides, as in the
willow and poplar, and (as to the staminate flowers) in the chestnut,
oak, hickory, etc.
 -- so called from its resemblance to a cat's tail. See Illust. of
Ament.

CATLIKE
Cat"like`, a.

Defn: Like a cat; stealthily; noiselessly.

CATLING
Cat"ling, n. Etym: [Cat + -ing.]

1. A little cat; a kitten. "Cat nor catling." Drummond.

2. Catgut; a catgut string. [R.] Shak.

3. (Surg.)

Defn: A double-edged, sharp-pointed dismembering knife. [Spelt also
catlin.] Crobb.

CATLINITE
Cat"lin*ite, n. Etym: [From George Catlin, an American traveler.]

Defn: A red clay from the Upper Missouri region, used by the Indians
for their pipes.

CATNIP; CATMINT
Cat"nip`, Cat"mint`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A well-know plant of the genus Nepeta (N. Cataria), somewhat
like mint, having a string scent, and sometimes used in medicine. It
is so called because cats have a peculiar fondness for it.

CATO-CATHARTIC
Cat`o-ca*thar"tic, n. Etym: [Gr. Cathartic.] (Med.)

Defn: A remedy that purges by alvine discharges.

CATONIAN
Ca*to"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Catonionus.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the stern old Roman, Cato the
Censor; severe; inflexible.

CAT O' NINE TAILS
Cat" o' nine" tails`.

Defn: See under Cat.

CATOPRON
Ca*top"ron, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Catopter.

CATOPTER; CATOPTRON
Ca*top"ter, Ca*top"tron, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A reflecting optical glass or instrument; a mirror. [Obs.]

CATOPTRIC; CATOPTRICAL
Ca*top"tric, Ca*top"tric*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Catopter.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to catoptrics; produced by reflection.
Catoptric light, a light in which the rays are concentrated by
reflectors into a beam visible at a distance.

CATOPTRICS
Ca*top"trics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. catoptrique. See Catropric.] (Physics)

Defn: That part of optics which explants the properties and phenomena
of reflected light, and particularly that which is reflected from
mirrors or polished bodies; --- formerly caled anacamptics.

CATOPTROMANCY
Ca*top"tro*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy. See Catopter.] (Antiq.)

Defn: A species of divination, which was perforned by letting down a
mirror into water, for a sick person to look at his face in it. If
his countenance appeared distorted and ghastly, it was an ill omen;
if fresh and healthy, it was favorable.

CATPIPE
Cat`pipe", n.

Defn: See Catcall.

CAT-RIGGED
Cat"-rigged`, a.

Defn: Rigged like a catboat.

CAT-SALT
Cat"-salt`, n.

Defn: A sort of salt, finely granulated, formed out of the bittern or
leach brine.

CAT'S-EYE
Cat's"-eye`, n. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of quartz or chalcedony, exhibiting opalescent
reflections from within, like the eye of a cat. The mane is given to
other gems affording like effects, esp. the chrysoberyl.

CAT'S-FOOT
Cat's`-foot, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Nepeta Glechoma) of the same genus with catnip; ground
ivy.

CAT-SILVER
Cat"-sil`ver, n.

Defn: Mica. [Archaic]

CATSKILL PERIOD
Cats"kill pe`ri*od. (Geol.)

Defn: The closing subdivision of the Devonian age in America. The
rocks of this period are well developed in the Catskill mountains,
and extend south and west under the Carboniferous formation. See the
Diagram under Geology.

CATSO
Cat"so, n.; pl. Catsos. Etym: [It. cazzo.]

Defn: A base fellow; a rogue; a cheat. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

CAT'S-PAW
Cat's"-paw`, n.

1. (Naut.)
(a) A light transitory air which ruffles the surface of the water
during a calm, or the ripples made by such a puff of air.
(b) A particular hitch or turn in the bight of a rope, into which a
tackle may be hooked.

2. A dupe; a tool; one who, or that which, is used by another as an
instrument to a accomplish his purposes.

Note: In this sense the term refers to the fable of the monkey using
the cat's paw to draw the roasting chestnuts out of the fire.

CAT'S-TAIL
Cat's"-tail, n.

Defn: See Timothy, Cat-tail, Cirrus.

CATSTICK
Cat"stick`, n.

Defn: A stick or club employed in the game of ball called cat or
tipcat. Massinger.

CATSTITCH
Cat"stitch, v. t. (Needlework)

Defn: To fold and sew down the edge of with a coarse zigzag stitch.

CATSUP
Cat"sup, n.

Defn: Same as Catchup, and Ketchup.

CAT-TAIL
Cat"-tail, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A tall rush or flag (Typha latifolia) growing in marshes, with
long, glat leaves, and having its flowers in a close cylindrical
spike at the top of the stem. The leaves are frequently used for
seating chairs, making mats, etc. See Catkin.

Note: The lesser cat-tail is Typha angustifolia.

CATTISH
Cat"tish, a.

Defn: Catlike; feline Drummond.

CATTLE
Cat"tle, n. pl. Etym: [OE. calet, chatel, goods, property, OF. catel,
chatel, LL. captale, capitale, goods, property, esp. cattle, fr. L.
capitals relating to the head, chief; because in early ages beasts
constituted the chief part of a man's property. See Capital, and cf.
Chattel.]

Defn: Quadrupeds of the Bovine family; sometimes, also, including all
domestic quadrupeds, as sheep, goats, horses, mules, asses, and
swine. Belted cattle, Black cattle. See under Belted, Black.
 -- Cattle guard, a trench under a railroad track and alongside a
crossing (as of a public highway). It is intended to prevent cattle
from getting upon the track.
 -- cattle louse (Zoöl.), any species of louse infecting cattle.
There are several species. The Hæmatatopinus eurysternus and H.
vituli are common species which suck blood; Trichodectes scalaris
eats the hair.
 -- Cattle plague, the rinderpest; called also Russian cattle plague.
 -- Cattle range, or Cattle run, an open space through which cattle
may run or range. [U. S.] Bartlett.
 -- Cattle show, an exhibition of domestic animals with prizes for
the encouragement of stock breeding; -- usually accompanied with the
exhibition of other agricultural and domestic products and of
implements.

CATTY
Cat"ty, n. Etym: [Malay kati. See Caddy.]

Defn: An East Indian Weight of 11/3 pounds.

CAUCASIAN
Cau*ca"sian, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the Caucasus, a mountainous region between the
Black and Caspian seas.

2. Of or pertaining to the white races of mankind, of whom the people
about Mount Caucasus were formerly taken as the type.

CAUCASIAN
Cau*ca"sian, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of the Caucasus, esp. a Circassian or
Georgian.

2. A member of any of the white races of mankind.

CAUCUS
Cau"cus, n. Etym: [Etymology uncertain. Mr. J. H. Trumbull finds the
origin of caucus in the N. A. Indian word cawcawwassough or caú cau-
as'u one who urges or pushes on, a promoter. See citation for an
early use of the word caucus.]

Defn: A meeting, especially a preliminary meeting, of persons
belonging to a party, to nominate candidates for public office, or to
select delegates to a nominating convention, or to confer regarding
measures of party policy; a political primary meeting.
This day learned that the caucus club meets, at certain times, in the
garret of Tom Dawes, the adjutant of the Boston regiment. John
Adams's Diary [Feb. , 1763].

CAUCUS
Cau"cus, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caucused; p. pr. & vb. n. Caucusing.]

Defn: To hold, or meet in, a caucus or caucuses.

CAUDAD
Cau"dad, adv. Etym: [L. cauda tail + ad to.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Backwards; toward the tail or posterior part.

CAUDA GALLI
Cau"da gal*li, (. Etym: [L., tail of a cock.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A plume-shaped fossil, supposed to be a seaweed, characteristic
of the lower Devonian rocks; as, the cauda galli grit. Gauda galli
epoch (Geol.), an epoch at the begining of the Devonian age in
eastern America, so named from the characteristic gritty sandstone
marked with impressions of cauda galli. See the Diagram under
Geology.

CAUDAL
Cau"dal, a. Etym: [L. Cauda tail. Cf. Coward.]

Defn: Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a tail; having a tail-like
appendage.
The male widow-bird, remarkable for his caudal plumes. Darwin.
Caudal fin (Zoöl.), the terminal fin (or "tail") of a fish.

CAUDATA
Cau*da"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. cauda tail.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Urodela.

CAUDATE; CAUDATED
Cau"date, Cau"da*ted. a. Etym: [L. cauda tail.]

Defn: Having a taill; having a termination like a tail.

CAUDEX
Cau"dex, n.; pl. L. Caudices, E. Caudexes. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: The sterm of a tree., esp. a sterm without a branch, as of a
palm or a tree fern; also, the pernnial rootstock of an herbaceous
plant.

CAUDICLE; CAUDICULA
Cau"di*cle, Cau*dic"u*la, n. Etym: [Dim. of L. cauda tail,
appendage.] (Bot.)

Defn: A slender, elastic process, to which the masses of pollen in
orchidaceous plants are attached.

CAUDLE
Cau"dle, n. Etym: [OF. caudel, F. chaudeau, dim. of LL calidum a
sweet drink, fr. L. caidus warm. See Caldron.]

Defn: A kind of warm drink for sick persons, being a mixture of wine
with eggs, bread, sugar, and spices.

CAUDLE
Cau"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Caudled; p. pr. & vb. n. Caudling.]

1. To make into caudle.

2. Too serve as a caudle to; to refresh. [R.] Shak.

CAUF
Cauf, n. Etym: [Perh. akin to Celtic caff, cav, cau, L. cavus hollow,
or to L. caphinus, Gr.

Defn: A chest with holes for keeping fish alive in water. Philips.

CAUFLE
Cau"fle, n.

Defn: A gung of slaves. Same as Coffle.

CAUGHT
Caught, imp. & p. p.

Defn: f Catch.

CAUK; CAUKER
Cauk, n., Cauk"er, n.

Defn: See Cawk, Calker.

CAUL
Caul, n. Etym: [OE. calle, kelle, prob. fr. F. cale; cf. Ir. calla a
veil.]

1. A covering of network for the head, worn by women; also, a net.
Spenser.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The fold of membrane loaded with fat, which covers more or less
of the intestines in mammals; the great omentum See Omentum.
The caul serves for warming of the lower belly. Ray.

3. A part of the amnion, one of the membranes enveloping the fetus,
which sometimes is round the head of a child at its birth.
It is deemed lucky to be with a caul or membrane over the face. This
caul is esteemed an infallible preservative against drowning . . .
According to Chysostom, the midwives frequently sold it for magic
uses. Grose.
I was born with a caul, which was advertised for sale, in the
newspapers, at the low price of fifteen guineas. Dickens.

CAULESCENT
Cau*les"cent, a. Etym: [L. caulis stalk, stem: cf. F. caulescent.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having a leafy stem.

CAULICLE
Cau"li*cle, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A short caulis or stem, esp. the rudimentary stem seen in the
embryo of seed; -- otherwise called a radicle.

CAULICULUS
Cau*lic"u*lus, n.; pl. Cauliculi Etym: [L. caulculus little stalk,
dim. of caulis.] (Arch.)

Defn: In the Corinthian capital, one of the eight stalks rising out
of the lower leafage and terminating in leaves which seem to suport
the volutes. See Illust. of Corinthian order, under Corinthian.

CAULIFLOWER
Cau"li*flow`er, n. Etym: [F. choufleur, modified by E. Cole. L.
caulis, and by E. flower; F. chou cabbage is fr. L. caulis stalk,
cabbage, and fleur flower is fr. L. flos flower. See Cole, and
Flower.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An annual variety of Brassica oleracea, or cabbage of which the
cluster of young flower stalks and buds is eaten as a vegetable.

2. The edible head or "curd" of a caulifower plant.

CAULIFORM
Cau"li*form, a. Etym: [L. caulis + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of a caulis.

CAULINE
Cau"line, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing immediately on a caulis; of or pertaining to a caulis.

CAULIS
Cau"lis, n.; L. pl. Caules. Etym: [L., a stem.] (Bot.)

Defn: An herbaceous or woody stem which bears leaves, and may bear
flowers.

CAULK
Caulk, v. t. & n.

Defn: See Calk.

CAULOCARPOUS
Cau`lo*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having stems which bear flowers and fruit year after year, as
most trees and shrubs.

CAULOME
Cau"lome, n. [Gr. kalo`s stem + -ome as in rhizome.] (Bot.)

Defn: A stem structure or stem axis of a plant, viewed as a whole. --
Cau*lom"ic (#), a.

CAUMA
Cau"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Great heat, as of the body in fever.

CAUPONIZE
Cau"po*nize, v. i. Etym: [L. cauponari, fr. caupo huckster,
innkeeper.]

Defn: To sell wine or victuals. [Obs.] Warburfon.

CAUSABLE
Caus"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being caused.

CAUSAL
Caus"al, a. Etym: [L. causalis. See Cause.]

Defn: Relating to a cause or causes; inplying or containing a cause
or causes; expressing a cause; causative.
Causal propositions are where two propositions are joined by causal
words. Watts.

CAUSAL
Caus"al, n.

Defn: A causal word or form of speech.
Anglo-Saxon drencan to drench, causal of Anglo-Saxon drincan to
drink. Skeat.

CAUSALITY
Cau*sal"i*ty, n.; pl. Causalities (.

1. The agency of a cause; the action or power of a cause, in
producing its effect.
The causality of the divine mind. Whewell.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: The faculty of tracing effects to their causes. G. Combe.

CAUSALLY
Caus"al*ly, adv.

Defn: According to the order or series of causes; by tracing effects
to causes.

CAUSALLY
Caus"al*ly, n. (Mining.)

Defn: The lighter, earthy parts of ore, carried off washing.

CAUSATION
Cau*sa"tion, n.

Defn: The act of causing; also the act or agency by which an effect
is produced.
The kind of causation by which vision is produced. Whewell.
Law of universal causation, the theoretical or asserted law that
every event or phenomenon results from, or is the sequel of, some
previous event or phenomenon, which being present, the other is
certain to take place.

CAUSATIONIST
Cau*sa"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who believes in the law of universal causation.

CAUSATIVE
Caus"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. causativus pertaining to a lawsuit (causa),
but in the English sense from E. cause.]

1. Effective, as a cause or agent; causing.
Causative in nature of a number of effects. Bacon.

2. Expressing a cause or reason; causal; as, the ablative is a
causative case.

CAUSATIVE
Caus"a*tive, n.

Defn: A word which expresses or suggests a cause.

CAUSATIVELY
Caus"a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a causative manner.

CAUSATOR
Cau*sa"tor, n. Etym: [See Cause.]

Defn: One who causes. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

CAUSE
Cause, n. Etym: [F. cause, fr. L. causa. Cf. Cause, v., Kickshaw.]

1. That which produces or effects a result; that from which anything
proceeds, and without which it would not exist.
Cause is substance exerting its power into act, to make one thing
begin to be. Locke.

2. That which is the occasion of an action or state; ground; reason;
motive; as, cause for rejoicing.

3. Sake; interest; advantage. [Obs.]
I did it not for his cause. 2 Cor. vii. 12.

4. (Law)

Defn: A suit or action in court; any legal process by which a party
endeavors to obtain his claim, or what he regards as his right; case;
ground of action.

5. Any subject of discussion or debate; matter; question; affair in
general.
What counsel give you in this weighty cause! Shak.

6. The side of a question, which is espoused, advocated, and upheld
by a person or party; a principle which is advocated; that which a
person or party seeks to attain.
God befriend us, as our cause is just. Shak.
The part they take against me is from zeal to the cause. Burke.
Efficient cause, the agent or force that produces a change or redult.
 -- Final cause, the end, design, or object, for which anything is
done.
 -- Formal cause, the elements of a conception which make the
conception or the thing conceived to be what it is; or the idea
viewed as a formative principle and coöperating with the matter.
 -- Material cause, that of which anything is made.
 -- Proximate cause. See under Proximate.
 -- To make common cause with, to join with in purposes and aims.
Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Origin; source; mainspring; motive; reason; incitement;
inducement; purpose; object; suit; action.

CAUSE
Cause, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Caused; p. pr. & v. n. Causing.] Etym: [F.
causer, fr. cause, fr. L. causa. See Cause, n., and cf. Acouse.]

Defn: To effect as an agent; to produce; to be the occasion of; to
bring about; to bring into existence; to make; -- usually followed by
an infinitive, sometimes by that with a finite verb.
I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days. Gen. vii. 4.
Cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans. Col. iv.
16.

Syn.
 -- To create; produce; beget; effect; occasion; originate; induce;
bring about.

CAUSE
Cause, v. i.

Defn: To assign or show cause; to give a reason; to make excuse.
[Obs.] Spenser.

CAUSE
Cause, conj.

Defn: Abbreviation of Because. B. Jonson.

CAUSEFUL
Cause"ful, n.

Defn: Having a cause. [Obs.]

CAUSELESS
Cause"less, a.

Defn: 1. Self-originating; uncreated.

2. Without just or sufficient reason; groundless.
My fears are causeless and ungrounded. Denham.

CAUSELESS
Cause"less, adv.

Defn: Without cause or reason.

CAUSELESSNESS
Cause"less*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being causeless.

CAUSER
Caus"er, n.

Defn: One who or that which causes.

CAUSERIE
Cause`rie", n. [F., fr. causer to chat.]

Defn: Informal talk or discussion, as about literary matters; light
conversation; chat.

CAUSEUSE
Cau`seuse", n. Etym: [F., fr. causer to talk.]

Defn: A kind of sofa for two person. A tête-a-tête.

CAUSEWAY; CAUSEY
Cause"way, Cau"sey, n. Etym: [OE. cauci, cauchie, OF. cauchie, F.
chaussée, from LL. (via) calciata, fr calciare to make a road, either
fr. L. calx lime, hence, to pave with limestone (cf. E. chalk), or
from L. calceus shoe, from calx heel, hence, to shoe, pave, or wear
by treading.]

Defn: A way or road rasid above the natural level of the ground,
serving as a dry passage over wet or marshy ground.
But that broad causeway will direct your way. Dryden.
The other way Satan went down The causey to Hell-gate. Milton.

CAUSEWAYED; CAUSEYED
Cause"wayed, Cau"seyed. a.

Defn: Having a raised way (causeway or causey); paved. Sir W. Scott.
C. Bronté.

CAUSIDICAL
Cau*sid"i*cal, a. Etym: [L. causidicakis; causa a cause in law +
dicare to say.]

Defn: Pertaining to an advocate, or to the maintenance and defense of
suits.

CAUSTIC; CAUSTICAL
Caus"tic, Caus"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. caustucs, Ge. Calm, Ink.]

1. Capable of destroying the texture of anything or eating away its
substance by chemical action; burning; corrosive; searing.

2. Severe; satirical; sharp; as, a caustic remark. Caustic curve
(Optics), a curve to which the ray of light, reflected or refracted
by another curve, are tangents, the reflecting or refracting curve
and the luminous point being in one plane.
 -- Caustic lime. See under Lime.
 -- Caustic potash, Caustic soda (Chem.), the solid hydroxides
potash, KOH, and soda, NaOH, or solutions of the same.
 -- Caustic silver, nitrate of silver, lunar caustic.
 -- Caustic surface (Optics), a surface to which rays reflected or
refracted by another surface are tangents. Caustic curves and
surfaces are called catacaustic when formed by reflection, and
diacaustic when formed by refraction.

Syn.
 -- Stinging; cutting; pungent; searching.

CAUSTIC
Cau"stic, n. Etym: [L. causticum (sc. medicamentum). See Caustic, a.]

1. Any substance or means which, applied to animal or other organic
tissue, burns, corrodes, or destroys it by chemical action; an
escharotic.

2. (Optics)

Defn: A caustic curve or caustic surface.

CAUSTICALLY
Caus"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a caustic manner.

CAUSTICILY
Caus*tic"i*ly, n.

1. The quality of being caustic; corrosiveness; as, the causticity of
potash.

2. Severity of language; sarcasm; as, the causticity of a reply or
remark.

CAUSTICNESS
Caus"tic*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being caustic; causticity.

CAUTEL
Cau"tel, n. Etym: [F. cautèle, L. cautela, fr. cavere to be on one's
guard, to take care.]

1. Caution; prudence; wariness. [Obs.] Fulke.

2. Craft; deceit; falseness. [Obs.] Shak.

CAUTELOUS
Cau"te*lous, a. Etym: [F. cauteleux, LL. cautelosus. See Cautel.]

1. Caution; prudent; wary. [Obs.] "Cautelous, though young." Drayton.

2. Crafty; deceitful; false. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- Cau"te*lous*ly, adv.
 -- Cau"te*lous*ness, n. [Obs.]

CAUTER
Cau"ter, n. Etym: [F. cautère, L. cauterium, fr. Gr. Caustic,
Cautery.]

Defn: A hot iron for searing or cauterizing. Minsheu.

CAUTERANT
Cau"ter*ant, n.

Defn: A cauterizing substance.

CAUTERISM
Cau"ter*ism, n.

Defn: The use or application of a caustic; cautery. Ferrand.

CAUTERIZATION
Cau`ter*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cautèrisation.] (Med.)

Defn: The act of searing some morbid part by the application of a
cautery or caustic; also, the effect of such application.

CAUTERIZE
Cau"ter*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cauterized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cauterizing.] Etym: [L. cauterizare, Gr. cautérised.. See cauter.]

1. To burn or sear with a cautery or caustic. Dunglison.

2. To sear, as the conscience. Jer. Taylor.

CAUTERY
Cau"ter*y, n.; pl. Cauteries. Etym: [L. cauterium, Gr. Cauter.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A burning or searing, as of morbid flesh, with a hot iron, or
by application of a caustic that will burn, corrode, or destroy
animal tissue.

2. The iron of other agent in cauterizing. Actual cautery, a
substance or agent (as a hot iron) which cauterizes or sears by
actual heat; or the burning so effected.
 -- Potential cautery, a substance which cauterizes by chemical
action; as, lunar caustic; also, the cauterizing produced by such
substance.

CAUTION
Cau"tion, n. Etym: [F. caution a security, L. cautio, fr. cavere (For
scavere) to be on one's guard, to take care (orig.) to be on the
watch, see; akin to E. show.]

1. A careful attention to the probable effects of an act, in order
that failure or harm may be avoided; prudence in regard to danger;
provident care; wariness.

2. Security; guaranty; bail. [R.]
The Parliament would yet give his majesty sufficient caution that the
war should be prosecuted. Clarendon.

3. Precept or warning against evil of any kind; exhortation to
wariness; advice; injunction.
In way of caution I must tell you. Shak.
Caution money, money deposited by way of security or guaranty, as by
a student at an English university.

Syn.
 -- Care; forethought; forecast; heed; prudence; watchfulness;
vigilance; circumspection; anxiety; providence; counsel; advice;
warning; admonition.

CAUTION
Cau"tion v. t. [imp & p. p. Cautioned; p. pr. & vb. n. Cautioning.]

Defn: To give notice of danger to; to warn; to exhort [one] to take
heed.
You cautioned me against their charms. Swift.

CAUTIONARY
Cau"tion*a*ry, a.

1. Conveying a caution, or warning to avoid danger; as, cautionary
signals.

2. Given as a pledge or as security.
He hated Barnevelt, for his getting the cautionary towns out of his
hands. Bp. Burnet.

3. Wary; cautious. [Obs.] Bacon.

CAUTIONARY BLOCK
Cau"tion*a*ry block. (Railroads)

Defn: A block in which two or more trains are permitted to travel,
under restrictions imposed by a caution card or the like.

CAUTIONER
Cau"tion*er, n.

1. One who cautions or advises.

2. (Scots Law)

Defn: A surety or sponsor.

CAUTIONRY
Cau"tion*ry, n. (Scots Law)

Defn: Suretyship.

CAUTIOUS
Cau"tious, a. Etym: [Cf. L. cautus, fr. caver. See Caution.]

Defn: Attentive to examine probable effects and consequences of acts
with a view to avoid danger or misfortune; prudent; circumspect;
wary; watchful; as, a cautious general.
Cautious feeling for another's pain. Byron.
Be swift to hear; but cautious of your tongue. Watts.

Syn.
 -- Wary; watchful; vigilant; prudent; circumspect; discreet;
heedful; thoughtful; scrupulous; anxious; careful.
 -- Cautious, Wary, Circumspect. A man is cautious who realizes the
constant possibility of danger; one may be wary, and yet bold and
active; a man who is circumspect habitually examines things on every
side in order to weigh and deliberate. It is necessary to be cautious
at all times; to be wary in cases of extraordinary danger; to be
circumspect in matters of peculiar delicacy and difficulty.

CAUTIOUSLY
Cau"tious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cautious manner.

CAUTIOUSNESS
Cau"tious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being cautious.

CAVALCADE
Cav"al*cade`, n. Etym: [F. cavalcade, fr. It. cavalcata, fr.
cavalcare to go on horseback, fr. LL. caballicare, fr. L. caballus an
inferior horse, Gr. Cavalier, Cavalry.]

Defn: A procession of persons on horseback; a formal, pompous march
of horsemen by way of parade.
He brought back war-worn cavalcade to the city. Prescott.

CAVALERO; CAVALIERO
Cav`a*le"ro, Cav`a*lie"ro, n. Etym: [Sp. caballero. See Cavalier.]

Defn: A cavalier; a gallant; a libertine. Shak.

CAVALIER
Cav`a*lier", n. Etym: [F. cavalier, It. cavaliere, LL. caballarius,
fr. L. caballus. See Cavalcade, and cf. Cavallier, Caballine.]

1. A military man serving on horseback; a knight.

2. A gay, sprightly, military man; hence, a gallant.

3. One of the court party in the time of king Charles L. as
contrasted with a Roundhead or an adherent of Parliament. Clarendon.

4. (Fort.)

Defn: A work of more that ordinary heigh, rising from the level
ground of a bastion, etc., and overlooking surrounding parts.

CAVALIER
Cav`a*lier", a.

Defn: Gay; easy; offhand; frank.
The plodding, persevering scupulous accuracy of the one, and the
easy, cavalier, verbal fluency of the other, from a complete
contrast. Hazlitt.

2. High-spirited. [Obs.] "The people are naturally not valiant, and
not much cavalier." Suckling.

3. Supercilious; haughty; disdainful; curt; brusque.

4. Of or pertaining to the party of King Charles I. "An old Cavalier
family." Beaconsfleld.

CAVALIERISH
Cav`a*lier"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat like a cavalier.

CAVALIERISM
Cav`a*lier"ism, n.

Defn: The practice or principles of cavaliers. Sir. W. Scott.

CAVALIERLY
Cav`a*lier"ly, adv.

Defn: In a supercilious, disdainful, or haughty manner; arroganty.
Junius.

CAVALIERNESS
Cav`a*lier"ness, n.

Defn: A disdanful manner.

CAVALLY
Ca*val"ly, n. Etym: [Cf. Pg. cavalla a kind of fish; Sp. caballa;
prob. fr. Pg. cavallo horse, Sp. caballa.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carangoid fish of the Atlantic coast (Caranx hippos): --
called also horse crevallé.

Note: [See Illust. under Carangoid.]

CAVALRY
Cav"al*ry, n. Etym: [F. cavalerie, fr. It. cavalleria. See Cavalier,
and cf. chivalry.] (Mil.)

Defn: That part of military force which serves on horseback.

Note: Heavy cavalry and light cavalry are so distinguished by the
character of their armament, and by the size of the men and horses.

CAVALRYMAN
Cav"al*ry*man, n.; pl. Cavalrymen (.

Defn: One of a body of cavalry.

CAVATINA
Ca`va*ti"na, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Originally, a melody of simpler form than the aria; a song
without a second part and a da capo; -- a term now variously and
vaguely used.

CAVE
Cave, n. Etym: [F. cave, L. cavus hollow, whence cavea cavity. Cf.
Cage.]

1. A hollow place in the earth, either natural or artificial; a
subterraneous cavity; a cavern; a den.

2. Any hollow place, or part; a cavity. [Obs.] "The cave of the ear."
Bacon. Cave bear (Zoöl.), a very large fossil bear (Ursus spelæus)
similar to the grizzly bear, but large; common in European caves.
 -- Cave dweller, a savage of prehistoric times whose dwelling place
was a cave. Tylor.
 -- Cave hyena (Zoöl.), a fossil hyena found abundanty in British
caves, now usually regarded as a large variety of the living African
spotted hyena.
 -- Cave lion (Zoöl.), a fossil lion found in the caves of Europe,
believed to be a large variety of the African lion.
 -- Bone cave. See under Bone.

CAVE
Cave, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Caved; p. pr. & vb. n. Caving.] Etym: [Cf.
F. caver. See Cave, n.]

Defn: To make hollow; to scoop out. [Obs.]
The mouldred earth cav'd the banke. Spenser.

CAVE
Cave, v. i.

1. To dwell in a cave. [Obs.] Shak.

2. Etym: [See To cave in, below.]

Defn: To fall in or down; as, the sand bank caved. Hence (Slang), to
retreat from a position; to give way; to yield in a disputed matter.
To cave in. Etym: [Flem. inkalven.] (a) To fall in and leave a
hollow, as earth on the side of a well or pit. (b) To submit; to
yield. [Slang] H. Kingsley.

CAVEAT
Ca"ve*at, n. Etym: [L. caved let him beware, pres. subj. of cavere to
be on one's guard to, beware.]

1. (Law)

Defn: A notice given by an interested party to some officer not to do
a certain act until the party is heard in opposition; as, a caveat
entered in a probate court to stop the proving of a will or the
taking out of letters of administration, etc. Bouvier.

2. (U. S. Patent Laws)

Defn: A description of some invention, designed to be patented,
lodged in the patent office before the patent right is applied for,
and operating as a bar to the issue of letters patent to any other
person, respecting the same invention.

Note: A caveat is operative for one year only, but may be renewed.

3. Intimation of caution; warning; protest.
We think it right to enter our caveat against a conclusion. Jeffrey.
Caveat emptor Etym: [L.] (Law), let the purchaser beware, i. e., let
him examine the article he is buying, and act on his own judgment.

CAVEATING
Ca"ve*a`ting, n. (Fencing)

Defn: Shifting the sword from one side of an adversary's sword to the
other.

CAVEATOR
Ca"ve*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who enters a caveat.

CAVENDISH
Cav"en*dish, n.

Defn: Leaf tobacco softened, sweetened, and pressed into plugs or
cakes. Cut cavendish, the plugs cut into long shreds for smoking.

CAVERN
Cav"ern, n. Etym: [L. caverna, fr. cavus hollow: cf. F. caverne.]

Defn: A large, deep, hollow place in the earth; a large cave.

CAVERNED
Cav"erned, a.

1. Containing caverns.
The wolves yelled on the caverned hill. Byron.

2. Living in a cavern. "Caverned hermit." Pope.

CAVERNOUS
Cav"ern*ous, a. Etym: [L. cavernosus: cf. F. caverneux.]

1. Full of caverns; resembling a cavern or large cavity; hollow.

2. Filled with small cavities or cells.

3. Having a sound caused by a cavity. Cavernous body, a body of
erectile tissue with large interspaces which may be distended with
blood, as in the penis or clitoris.
 -- Cavernous respiration, a peculiar respiratory sound andible on
auscultation, when the bronchial tubes communicate with morbid
cavities in the lungs.

CAVERNULOUS
Ca*ver"nu*lous, a.Etym: [L. cavernula, dim. of caverna cavern.]

Defn: Full of little cavities; as, cavernulous metal. Black.

CAVESSON; CAVEZON
Cav"es*son, Cav"e*zon, n. Etym: [F. caveçon, augm. fr. LL. capitium a
head covering hood, fr. L. caput head. Cf. Caberzon.] (Man.)

Defn: A kind of noseband used in breaking and training horses.
[Written also caveson, causson.] White.

CAVETTO
Ca*vet"to, n. Etym: [It. cavetto, fr. cavo hollow, L. cavus.] (Arch.)

Defn: A concave molding; -- used chiefly in classical architecture.
See Illust. of Calumn.

CAVIARE; CAVIAR
Ca*viare", Cav"i*ar, n. Etym: [F. caviar, fr. It. caviale, fr. Turk.
Havi\'ber.]

Defn: The roes of the sturgeon, prepared and salted; -- used as a
relish, esp. in Russia.

Note: Caviare was considered a delicacy, by some, in Shakespeare's
time, but was not relished by most. Hence Hamlet says of a certain
play. "'T was caviare to the general," i. e., above the taste of the
common people.

CAVICORN
Cav"i*corn, a. Etym: [L. cavus hollow + cornu horn.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having hollow horns.

CAVICORNIA
Cav`i*cor"ni*a, n.; pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of ruminants whose horns are hollow, and planted on a
bony process of the front, as the ox.

CAVIL
Cav"il, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caviled or Cavilled (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Caviling or Cavilling.] Etym: [L. cavillari to practice jesting, to
censure, fr. cavilla bantering jests, sophistry: cf. OF. caviller.]

Defn: To raise captious and frivolous objections; to find fault
without good reason.
You do not well in obstinacy To cavil in the course of this contract.
Shak.

CAVIL
Cav"il, v. t.

Defn: To cavil at. [Obs.] Milton.

CAVIL
Cav"il, n.

Defn: A captious or frivolous objection.
All the cavils of prejudice and unbelief. Shak.

CAVIL; CAVILER; CAVILLER
Cav"il or Cav"il*er, n.

Defn: One who cavils.
Cavilers at the style of the Scriptures. Boyle.

CAVILING
Cav"il*ing, a.

Defn: Disposed to cavil; finding fault without good reason. See
Captious.
His depreciatory and caviling criticism. Lewis.

CAVILINGLY
Cav"il*ing*ly, adb.

Defn: In a caviling manner.

CAVILLATION
Cav`il*la"tion, n.Etym: [F. cavillation, L. cavillatio.]

Defn: Frivolous or sophistical objection. [Obs.] Hooker.

CAVILOUS; CAVILLOUS
Cav"il*ous or Cav"il*lous, a. Etym: [L. cavillosus.]

Defn: Characterized by caviling, or disposed to cavil; quibbing. [R.]
-- Cav"il*ous*ly, adv. [R.] -- Cav"il*ous*ness, n. [R.]

CAVIN
Cav"in, n. Etym: [F. See Cave.] (Mil.)

Defn: A hollow way, adapted to cover troops, and facilitate their
aproach to a place. Farrow.

CAVITARY
Cav"i*ta*ry, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Containing a body cavity; as, the cavitary or nematoid worms.

CAVITY
Cav"i*ty, n.; pl. Cavities. Etym: [L. cavus hollow: cf. F. cavité.]

1. Hollowness. [Obs.]
The cavity or hollowness of the place. Goodwin.

2. A hollow place; a hollow; as, the abdominal cavity.
An instrument with a small cavity, like a small spoon. Arbuthot.
Abnormal spaces or excavations are frequently formed in the lungs,
which are designated cavities or vomicæ. Quain.
Body cavity, the coelum. See under Body.

CAVO-RELIEVO
Ca"vo-re*lie"vo, n.

Defn: Cavo-rilievo.

CAVO-RILIEVO
Ca"vo-ri*lie"vo, n. Etym: [It.] (Sculp.)

Defn: Hollow relief; sculpture in relief within a sinking made for
the purpose, so no part of it projects beyond the plain surface
around.

CAVORT
Ca*vort", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cavorted; p. pr. & vb. n. Cavorting.]

Defn: To prance ostentatiously; -- said of a horse or his rider.
[Local slang U. S.]

CAVY
Ca"vy, n.; pl. Cavies (. Etym: [NL. cavia, fr. Brazilian cabiai: cf.
F. cabiai.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A rodent of the genera cavia and Dolichotis, as the guinea pig
(Cavia cabaya). Cavies are natives of South America. Water cavy
(Zoöl.), The capybara.

CAW
Caw, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cawed; p. pr. & vb. n. Cawing.] Etym:
[Imitative. *22 Cf. Chough.]

Defn: To cry like a crow, rook, or raven.
Rising and cawing at the gun's report. Shak.

CAW
Caw, n.

Defn: The cry made by the crow, rook, or raven.

CAWK
Cawk, n. Etym: [Prov. E. cauk limestone. A doublet of chalk.] (Min.)

Defn: An opaque, compact variety of barite, or heavy spar. [Also
written cauk.]

CAWKER
Cawk"er, n.

Defn: See Calker.

CAWKY
Cawk"y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cawk; like cawk.

CAXON
Cax"on, n.

Defn: A kind of wig. [Obs.] Lamb.

CAXTON
Cax"ton, n. (Bibliog.)

Defn: Any book printed by William Caxton, the first English printer.
Hansard.

CAY
Cay, n.

Defn: See Key, a ledge.

CAYENNE
Cay*enne, n. Etym: [From Cayenne, a town and island in French Guiana,
South America.]

Defn: Cayenne pepper. Cayenne pepper. (a) (Bot.) A species of
capsicum (C. frutescens) with small and intensely pungent fruit. (b)
A very pungent spice made by drying and grinding the fruits or seeds
of several species of the genus Capsicum, esp. C. annuum and C.
Frutescens; -- Called also red pepper. It is used chiefly as a
condiment.

CAYMAN
Cay"man, n. Etym: [From the language of Guiana: cf. Sp. caiman.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The south America alligator. See Alligator. [Sometimes written
caiman.]

CAYO
Ca"yo, n.; pl. -yos (#). [Sp.]

Defn: A small island or ledge of rock in the water; a key. [Sp. Am.]

CAYUGAS
Ca*yu"gas, n. pl.

Defn: ; sing Cayuga. (Ethnol.) A tribe of Indians formerly inbabiting
western New-York, forming part of the confederacy called the Five
Nations.

CAYUSE
Cay*use", n.

Defn: An Indian pony. [Northw. U. S.]

CAZIQUE; CAZIC
Ca*zique", Cazic", n. Etym: [Sp. Cacique, fr. the language of Hayti.]

Defn: A chief or petty king among some tribes of Indians in America.

CC IRA
Ça" i*ra". [F. ça ira, ça ira, les aristocrates à la lanterne, it
shall go on, it shall go on, [hang]the arictocrats to the lantern
(lamp-post).]

Defn: The refrain of a famous song of the French Revolution.

CEASE
Cease, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ceased; p. pr. & vb. n. Ceasing.] Etym:
[OE. cessen, cesen, F. cesser, fr. L. cessare, v. intemsive fr.
cedere to withdraw. See Cede , and cf. Cessation.]

1. To come to an end; to stop; to leave off or give over; to desist;
as, the noise ceased "To cease from strife." Prov. xx. 3.

2. To be wanting; to fail; to pass away.
The poor shall never cease out of the land. Deut. xv. 11.

Syn.
 -- To intermit; desist; stop; abstain; quit; discontinue; refrain;
leave off; pause; end.

CEASE
Cease, v. t.

Defn: To put a stop to; to bring to an end.
But he, her fears to cease Sent down the meek-eyed peace. Milton.
Cease, then, this impious rage. Milton

CEASE
Cease, n.

Defn: Extinction. [Obs.] Shak.

CEASELESS
Cease"less, a.

Defn: Without pause or end; incessant.

CEASELESS
Cease"less, adv.

Defn: Without intermission or end.

CECIDOMYIA
Cec`i*do*my"i*a, n. Etym: [Nl., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small dipterous files, including several very
injurious species, as the Hessian fly. See Hessian fly.

CECITY
Ce"ci*ty, n. Etym: [L. caecitas, fr. caecus blind: cf. F. cécité.]

Defn: Blindness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

CECUTIENCY
Ce*cu"tien*cy, n. Etym: [L. caecutire to be blind, fr. caecus blind.]

Defn: Partial blindness, or a tendency to blindness. [R.] Sir T.
Browne.

CEDAR
Ce"dar, n. Etym: [AS. ceder, fr. L. cedrus, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of several evergreen trees. The wood is remarkable for
its durability and fragrant odor.

Note: The cedar of Lebanon is the Cedrus Libani; the white cedar
(Cupressus thyoides) is now called Chamoecyparis sphæroidea; American
red cedar is the Juniperus Virginiana; Spanish cedar, the West Indian
Cedrela odorata. Many other trees with odoriferous wood are locally
called cedar. Cedar bird (Zoöl.), a species of chatterer (Ampelis
cedrarum), so named from its frequenting cedar trees; -- called also
cherry bird, Canada robin, and American waxwing.

CEDAR
Ce"dar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cedar.

CEDARED
Ce"dared, a.

Defn: Covered, or furnished with, cedars.

CEDARN
Ce"darn, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cedar or its wood. [R.]

CEDE
Cede, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ceded; p. pr. & vb. n. Ceding.] Etym: [L.
cedere to withdraw, yield; akin to cadere to fall, and to E. chance;
cf. F. céder.]

Defn: To yield or surrender; to give up; to resign; as, to cede a
fortress, a province, or country, to another nation, by treaty.
The people must cede to the government some of their natural rights.
Jay.

CEDILLA
Ce*dil"la, n. Etym: [Sp. cedilla, cf. F. cédille; dim. of zeta, the
Gr. name of the letter z, because this letter was formerly written
after the c, to give it the sound of s.]

Defn: A mark placed under the letter c [thus, ç], to show that it is
to be sounded like s, as in façade.

CEDRAT
Ce"drat, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cédrat. See Cedar.] (Bot.)

Defn: Properly the citron, a variety of Citrus medica, with large
fruits, not acid, and having a high perfume.

CEDRENE
Ce"drene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A rich aromatic oil, C15H24, extracted from oil of red cedar,
and regarded as a polymeric terpene; also any one of a class of
similar substances, as the essential oils of cloves, cubebs, juniper,
etc., of which cedrene proper is the type. [Written also cedren.]

CEDRINE
Ce"drine, a. Etym: [L. cedrinus, Gr. Cedar.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to cedar or the cedar tree.

CEDRIRET
Ce"dri*ret, n.

Defn: Same as Coerulignone.

CEDRY
Ce"dry, a.

Defn: Of the nature of cedar. [R.]

CEDULE
Ced"ule, n. Etym: [F. cédule, fr. L. shedula. See Shedule.]

Defn: A scroll; a writing; a schedule. [Obs.]

CEDUOUS
Ced"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. caeduus, fr. caedere to cut down.]

Defn: Fit to be felled. [Obs.] Eyelyn.

CEIL
Ceil, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ceiled; p. pr. & vb. n. Ceiling.] Etym:
[From an older noun, fr. F. ciel heaven, canopy, fr. L. carlum
heaven, vault, arch, covering; cf. Gr.

1. To overlay or cover the inner side of the roof of; to furnish with
a ceiling; as, to ceil a room.
The greater house he ceiled with fir tree. 2 Chron. iii. 5

2. To line or finish a surface, as of a wall, with plaster, stucco,
thin boards, or the like.

CEILING
Ceil"ing, n. Etym: [See Cell, v. t.]

1. (Arch.)
(a) The inside lining of a room overhead; the under side of the floor
above; the upper surface opposite to the floor.
(b) The lining or finishing of any wall or other surface, with
plaster, thin boards, etc.; also, the work when done.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The inner planking of a vessel. Camp ceiling. See under Camp.
 -- Ceiling boards, Thin narrow boards used to ceil with.

CEINT
Ceint, n. Etym: [See Cincture.]

Defn: A girdle. [Obs.]

CEINTURE
Cein`ture", n. [F.]

Defn: A cincture, girdle, or belt; -- chiefly used in English as a
dressmaking term.

CELADON
Cel"a*don, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A pale sea-green color; also, porcelain or fine pottery of this
tint.

CELANDINE; CALANDINE
Cel"an*dine, Cal"an*dine, n. Etym: [OE. celidoine, OF. celidoine, F.
chélidoine, fr. L. chelidonia (sc. herba), fr. chelidonius pertaining
to the swallow, Gr. hirundo a swallow.] (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial herbaceous plant (Chelidonium majus) of the poppy
family, with yellow flowers. It is used as a medicine in jandice,
etc., and its acrid saffron-colored juice is used to cure warts and
the itch; -- called also greater celandine and swallowwort. Lasser
celandine, the pilewort (Ranunculus Ficaria).

CELATURE
Cel"a*ture, n. Etym: [L. caelatura, fr. caelare to engrave in
relief.]

1. The act or art of engraving or embossing.

2. That which is engraved. [Obs.] Hakewill.

CELEBRANT
Cel"e*brant, n. Etym: [L. celebrans, p. pr. of celebrare. See
Celebrate.]

Defn: One who performs a public religious rite; -- applied
particularly to an officiating priest in the Roman Catholic Church,
as distinguished from his assistants.

CELEBRATE
Cel"e*brate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Celebrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Celebrating.] Etym: [L. celebratus, p. p. of celebrare to frequent,
to celebrate, fr. celeber famous.]

1. To extol or honor in a solemn manner; as, to celebrate the name of
the Most High.

2. To honor by solemn rites, by ceremonies of joy and respect, or by
refraining from ordinary business; to observe duly; to keep; as, to
celebrate a birthday.
Fron even unto shall ye celebrate your Sabbath. Lev. xxiii. 32.

3. To perforn or participate in, as a sacrament or solemn rite; to
solemnize; to perform with appropriate rites; as, to celebrate a
marriage.

Syn.
 -- To commemorate; distinguish; honor.
 -- To Celebrate, Commemorate. We commemorate events which we desire
to keep in remembrance, when we recall them by some special
observace; as, to commemorate the death of our Savior. We celebrate
by demonstrations of joy or solemnity or by appropriate ceremonies;
as, to celebrate the birthday of our Independence.
We are called upon to commemorate a revolution as surprising in its
manner as happy in its consequences. Atterbury.
Earth, water, air, and fire, with feeling glee, Exult to celebrate
thy festival. Thomson.

CELEBRATED
Cel"e*bra`ted, a.

Defn: Having celebrity; distinguished; renowned.
Celebrated for the politeness of his manners. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Distinguished; famous; noted; famed; renowned; illustrious. See
Distinguished.

CELEBRATION
Cel`e*bra"tion, n. Etym: [L. celebratio.]

Defn: The act, process, or time of celebrating.
His memory deserving a particular celebration. Clarendok.
Celebration of Mass is equivalent to offering Mass Cath. Dict.
To hasten the celebration of their marriage. Sir P. Sidney.

CELEBRATOR
Cel"e*bra`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who celebrates; a praiser. Boyle.

CELEBRIOUS
Ce*le"bri*ous, a.

Defn: Famous. [Obs.] Speed.

CELEBRITY
Ce*leb"ri*ty, n.; pl. Celebriries. Etym: [L. celebritas: cf. F.
célébrité.]

1. Celebration; solemnization. [Obs.]
The celebrity of the marriage. Bacon.

2. The state or condition of being celebrated; fame; renown; as, the
celebrity of Washington.
An event of great celebrity in the history of astronomy. Whewell.

3. A person of distinction or renown; -- usually in the plural; as,
he is one of the celebrities of the place.

CELERIAC
Ce*le"ri*ac, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Turnip-rooted celery, a from of celery with a large globular
root, which is used for food.

CELERITY
Ce*ler"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. celeritas, from celer swiftm speedy: sf. F.
célérité.]

Defn: Rapidity of motion; quickness; swiftness.
Time, with all its celerity, moves slowly to him whose whole
employment is to watch its flight. Johnson.

CELERY
Cel"er*y, n. Etym: [F. céleri, cf. Prov. It. seleno, seler; fr. Gr.
celery. Cf. Parsley.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the Parsley family (Apium graveolens), of which the
blanched leafstalks are used as a salad.

CELESTIAL
Ce*les"tial, a. Etym: [OF. celestial, celestied, fr. L. caelestic,
fr. caelum heaved. See Cell.]

1. Belonging to the aërial regions, or visible heavens. "The twelve
celestial signs." Shak.

2. Of or pertaining to the spiritual heaven; heavenly; divine.
"Celestial spirits." "Celestial light," Milton. Celestial city,
heaven; the heavenly Jerusalem. Bunyan.
 -- Celestial empire, China; -- so called from the Chinese words,
tien chan, Heavenly Dynasty, as being the kingdom ruled over by the
dynasty appoined by heaven. S. W. Williams.

CELESTIAL
Ce*les"tial, n.

1. An inhabitant of heaven. Pope.

2. A native of China.

CELESTIALIZE
Ce*les"tial*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make celestial. [R.]

CELESTIALLY
Ce*les"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a celestial manner.

CELESTIFY
Ce*les"ti*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. caelestis heavenly + -fly.]

Defn: To make like heaven. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CELESTINE; CELESTITE
Cel"es*tine, Cel"es*tite,, n. Etym: [LL. caelestinus bine.] (Min.)

Defn: Native strontium sulphate, a mineral so named from its
occasional delicate blue color. It occurs crystallized, also in
compact massive and fibrous forms.

CELESTINE; CELESTINIAN
Cel"es*tine, Cel`es*tin"i*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A monk of the austere branch of the Franciscan Order founded by
Celestine V. in the 13th centry.

CELIAC
Ce"li*ac, a. (Anat.)

Defn: See Coellac.

CELIBACY
Ce*lib"a*cy, n. Etym: [See Celibate, n.]

Defn: The state of being unmarried; single life, esp. that of a
bachelor, or of one bound by vows not to marry. "The celibacy of the
clergy." Hallom.

CELIBATE
Cel"i*bate, n. Etym: [L. aelibatus, fr. caelebs unmarried, single.]

1. Celibate state; celibacy. [Obs.]
He . . . preferreth holy celibate before the estate of marrige. Jer.
Taylor.

2. One who is unmarried, esp. a bachelor, or one bound by vows not to
marry.

CELIBATE
Cel"i*bate, a.

Defn: Unmarried; single; as, a celibate state.

CELIBATIST
Ce*lib"a*tist, n.

Defn: One who lives unmarried. [R.]

CELIDOGRAPHY
Cel`i*dog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy: cf. F. célidographie.]

Defn: A description of apparent spots on the disk of the sun, or on
planets.

CELL
Cell, n. Etym: [OF. celle, fr. L. cella; akin to celare to hide, and
E. hell, helm, conceal. Cf. Hall.]

1. A very small and close apartment, as in a prison or in a monastery
or convent; the hut of a hermit.
The heroic confessor in his cell. Macaulay.

2. A small religious house attached to a monastery or convent. "Cells
or dependent priories." Milman.

3. Any small cavity, or hollow place.

4. (Arch.)
(a) The space between the ribs of a vaulted roof.
(b) Same as Cella.

5. (Elec.)

Defn: A jar of vessel, or a division of a compound vessel, for
holding the exciting fluid of a battery.

6. (Biol.)

Defn: One of the minute elementary structures, of which the greater
part of the various tissues and organs of animals and plants are
composed.

Note: All cells have their origin in the primary cell from which the
organism was developed. In the lowest animal and vegetable forms, one
single cell constitutes the complete individual, such being called
unicelluter orgamisms. A typical cell is composed of a semifluid mass
of protoplasm, more or less granular, generally containing in its
center a nucleus which in turn frequently contains one or more
nucleoli, the whole being surrounded by a thin membrane, the cell
wall. In some cells, as in those of blood, in the amoeba, and in
embryonic cells (both vegetable and animal), there is no restricting
cell wall, while in some of the unicelluliar organisms the nucleus is
wholly wanting. See Illust. of Bipolar. Air cell. See Air cell.
 -- Cell development (called also cell genesis, cell formation, and
cytogenesis), the multiplication, of cells by a process of
reproduction under the following common forms; segmentation or
fission, gemmation or budding, karyokinesis, and endogenous
multiplication. See Segmentation, Gemmation, etc.
 -- Cell theory. (Biol.) See Cellular theory, under Cellular.

CELL
Cell, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Celled.]

Defn: To place or inclosed in a cell. "Celled under ground." [R.]
Warner.

CELLA
Cel"la, n. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)

Defn: The part inclosed within the walls of an ancient temple, as
distinguished from the open porticoes.

CELLAR
Cel"lar, n. Etym: [OE. celer, OF. celier, F. celier, fr. L. cellarium
a receptacle for food, pantry, fr. cella storeroom. See Cell.]

Defn: A room or rooms under a building, and usually below the surface
of the ground, where provisions and other stores are kept.

CELLARAGE
Cel"lar*age, n.

1. The space or storerooms of a cellar; a cellar. Sir W. Scott.
You hear this fellow in the cellarage. Shak.

2. Chare for storage in a cellar.

CELLARER
Cel"lar*er, n. Etym: [LL. cellararius, equiv. to L. cellarius
steward: cf. F. cellérier. See Cellar.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A steward or butler of a monastery or chapter; one who has
charge of procuring and keeping the provisions.

CELLARET
Cel`lar*et", n. Etym: [Dim of cellar.]

Defn: A receptacle, as in a dining room, for a few bottles of wine or
liquor, made in the form of a chest or coffer, or a deep drawer in a
sideboard, and usually lined with metal.

CELLARIST
Cel"lar*ist, n.

Defn: Same as Cellarer.

CELLED
Celled, a.

Defn: Containing a cell or cells.

CELLEPORE
Cel"le*pore, n. Etym: [L. cella cell + porus, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of delicate branching corals, made up of minute cells,
belonging to the Bryozoa.

CELLIFEROUS
Cel*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Cell + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing or producing cells.

CELLO
Cel"lo, n.; pl. E. Cellos (, It. Celli (.

Defn: A contraction for Violoncello.

CELLULAR
Cel"lu*lar, a. Etym: [L. cellula a little cell: cf. F. cellulaire.
See Cellule.]

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, cells; of or pertaining to a cell
or cells. Cellular plants, Cellular cryptogams (Bot.), those
flowerless plants which have no ducts or fiber in their tissue, as
mosses, fungi, lichens, and algæ.
 -- Cellular theory, or Cell theory (Biol.), a theory, according to
which the essential element of every tissue, either vegetable or
animal, is a cell; the whole series of cells having been formed from
the development of the germ cell and by differentiation converted
into tissues and organs which, both in plants ans animals, are to be
considered as a mass of minute cells communicating with each other.
 -- Cellular tissue. (a) (Anat.) See conjunctive tissue under
Conjunctive. (b) (Bot.) Tissue composed entirely of parenchyma, and
having no woody fiber or ducts. cellular telephone, a portable radio-
telephone transmitting and receiving the radio-telephonic signals
from one of a group of transmitter-receiver stations so arranged that
they provide adequate signal contact for such telephones over a
certain geographical area. The area within which one transmitter may
service such portable telephones is called its "cell.

CELLULATED
Cel"lu*la`ted, a.

Defn: Cellular. Caldwell.

CELLULE
Cel"lule, n. Etym: [L. cellula a small apartment, dim. of cella: cf.
F. cellule. See Cell.]

Defn: A small cell.

CELLULIFEROUS
Cel`lu*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. cellula + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing or producing little cells.

CELLULITIS
Cel`lu*li"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. cellula + -itis.]

Defn: An inflammantion of the cellular or areolar tissue, esp. of
that lying immediately beneath the skin.

CELLULOID
Cel"lu*loid`, n. Etym: [Cellulose + -oid.]

Defn: A substance composed essentially of gun cotton and camphor, and
when pure resembling ivory in texture and color, but variously
colored to imitate coral, tortoise shell, amber, malachite, etc. It
is used in the manufacture of jewelry and many small articles, as
combs, brushes, collars, and cuffs; -- originaly called xylonite.

CELLULOSE
Cel"lu*lose`, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, cells.

CELLULOSE
Cel"lu*lose`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The substance which constitutes the essential part of the solid
framework of plants, of ordinary wood, linen, paper, etc. It is also
found to a slight extent in certain animals, as the tunicates. It is
a carbohydrate, (C6H10O5)n, isomeric with starch, and is convertible
into starches and sugars by the action of heat and acids. When pure,
it is a white amorphous mass. See Starch, Granulose, Lignin.
Unsized, well bleached linen paper is merely pure cellulose. Goodale.
Starch cellulose, the delicate framework which remains when the
soluble part (granulose) of starch is removed by saliva or pepsin.
Goodale.

CELOTOMY
Ce*lot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The act or operation of cutting, to relieve the structure in
strangulated hernia. [Frequently written kelotomy.]

CELSITURE
Cel"si*ture, n. Etym: [L. celstudo, from celsus high: cf. celsitude.]

Defn: Height; altitude. [Obs.]

CELSIUS
Cel"si*us, n.

Defn: The Celsius thermometer or scale, so called from Anders
Celsius, a Swedish astronomer, who invented it. It is the same as the
centigrade thermometer or scale.

CELT
Celt, n. Etym: [L. Celtae, Gr. Celtiad one that dwells in a covert,
an inhabitant of the wood, a Celt, fr. celt covert, shelter, celu to
hide.]

Defn: One of an ancient race of people, who formerly inhabited a
great part of Central and Western Europe, and whose descendants at
the present day occupy Ireland, Wales, the Highlands of Scotland, and
the northern shores of France. [Written also Kelt. The letter C was
pronounced hard in Celtic languages.]

CELT
Celt, n. Etym: [LL. celts a chisel.] (Archæol.)

Defn: A weapon or implement of stone or metal, found in the tumuli,
or barrows, of the early Celtic nations.

CELTIBERIAN
Celt`i*be"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Celtiber, Celtibericus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ancient Celtiberia (a district in Spain
lying between the Ebro and the Tagus) or its inhabitants the
Celtiberi (Celts of the river Iberus).
 -- n.

Defn: An inhabitant of Celtiberia.

CELTIC
Celt"ic, a. Etym: [L. Celticus, Gr. Celt.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Celts; as, Celtic people, tribes,
literature, tongue. [Written also Keltic.]

CELTIC
Celt"ic, n.

Defn: The language of the Celts.

Note: The remains of the old Celtic language are found in the Gaelic,
the Erse or Irish the Manx, and the Welsh and its cognate dialects
Cornish and Bas Breton.

CELTICISM
Celt"i*cism, n.

Defn: A custom of the Celts, or an idiom of their language. Warton.

CELTICIZE
Celt"i*cize`, v. t.

Defn: To render Celtic; to assimilate to the Celts.

CELTIUM
Cel"ti*um, n. [NL.] (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed new element of the rare-earth group, accompanying
lutecium and scandium in the gadolinite earths. Symbol, Ct (no
period).

CEMBALO
Cem"ba*lo, n. Etym: [It. See Cymbal.]

Defn: An old mname for the harpsichord.

CEMENT
Ce*ment", n. Etym: [OF. cement, ciment, F. ciment, fr. L. caementum a
rough, unhewn stone, pieces or chips of marble, from which mortar was
made, contr. fr. caedimentum, fr. caedere to cut, prob. akin to
scindere to cleave, and to E. shed, v. t.]

1. Any substance used for making bodies adhere to each other, as
mortar, glue, etc.

2. A kind of calcined limestone, or a calcined mixture of clay and
lime, for making mortar which will harden under water.

3. The powder used in cementation. See Cementation, n.., 2.

4. Bond of union; that which unites firmly, as persons in friendship,
or men in society. "The cement of our love."

5. (Anat.)

Defn: The layer of bone investing the root and neck of a tooth; --
called also cementum. Hydraulic cement. See under Hydraulic.

CEMENT
Ce*ment", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cemented; p. pr. & vb. n. Cementing.]
Etym: [Cf. F. cimenter. See Cement, n.]

1. To unite or cause to adhere by means of a cement. Bp. Burnet.

2. To unite firmly or closely. Shak.

3. To overlay or coat with cement; as, to cement a cellar bottom.

CEMENT
Ce*ment", v. i.

Defn: To become cemented or firmly united; to cohere. S. Sharp.

CEMENTAL
Ce*ment"al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cement, as of a tooth; as, cemental tubes.
R. Owen.

CEMENTATION
Cem`en*ta"tion, n.

1. The act or process of cementing.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A process which consists in surrounding a solid body with the
powder of other substances, and heating the whole to a degree not
sufficient to cause fusion, the physical properties of the body being
changed by chemical combination with powder; thus iron becomes steel
by cementation with charcoal, and green glass becomes porcelain by
cementation with sand.

CEMENTATORY
Ce*ment"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Having the quality of cementating or uniting firmly.

CEMENTER
Ce*ment"er, n.

Defn: A person or thing that cements.

CEMENTITIOUS
Cem`en*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. caementitius pertaining to quarry
stones. See Cement, n. ]

Defn: Of the nature of cement. [R.] Forsyth.

CEMENT STEEL
Ce*ment" steel.

Defn: Steel produced by cementation; blister steel.

CEMETERIAL
Cem`e*te"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cemetery. "Cemeterial cells." [R.] Sir T.
Browne.

CEMETERY
Cem"e*ter*y, n.; pl. Cemeteries (. Etym: [L. cemeterium, Gr.

Defn: A place or ground set apart for the burial of the dead; a
graveyard; a churchyard; a necropolis.

CENANTHY
Ce*nan"thy, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The absence or suppression of the essential organs (stamens and
pistil) in a flower.

CENATION
Ce*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. cenatio.]

Defn: Meal-taking; dining or supping. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CENATORY
Cen"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. cenatorius, fr. cenare to dine, sup, fr.
cena, coena, dinner, supper.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to dinner or supper. [R.]
The Romans washed, were anointed, and wore a cenatory garment. Sir T.
Browne.

CENOBITE
Cen"o*bite, n. Etym: [L. coenobita, fr. Gr. cénobite.]

Defn: One of a religious order, dwelling in a convent, or a
community, in opposition to an anchoret, or hermit, who lives in
solitude. Gibbon.

CENOBITIC; CENOBITICAL
Cen`o*bit"ic, Cen`o*bit"ic*al a. Etym: [Cf. F. cénobitique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cenobite.

CENOBITISM
Cen"o*bi*tism, n.

Defn: The state of being a cenobite; the belief or practice of a
cenobite. Milman.

CENOGAMY
Ce*nog"a*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The state of a communty which permits promiseuous sexual
intercourse among its members, as in certain societies practicing
communism.

CENOTAPH
Cen"o*taph, n. Etym: [Gr. cénotaphe.]

Defn: An empty tomb or a monument erected in honor of a person who is
buried elsewhere. Dryden.
A cenotaph in Westminster Abbey. Macaulay.

CENOTAPHY
Cen"o*taph`y, n.

Defn: A cenotaph. [R.]
Lord Cobham honored him with a cenotaphy. Macaulay.

CENOZOIC
Ce`no*zo"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: Belonging to the most recent division of geological time,
including the tertiary, or Age of mammals, and the Quaternary, or Age
of man. [Written also cænozoic, cainozoic, kainozoic.] See Geology.

Note: This word is used by many authors as synonymous with Tertiary,
the Quaternary Age not being included.

CENSE
Cense, n. Etym: [OF. cense, F. cens, L. census. See Census.]

1. A census; -- also, a public rate or tax. [Obs.] Howell. Bacon.

2. Condition; rank. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

CENSE
Cense, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Censed; p. pr. & vb. n. Censing.] Etym:
[Abbrev. from incense.]

Defn: To perfume with odors from burning gums and spices.
The Salii sing and cense his altars round. Dryden.

CENSE
Cense, v. i.

Defn: To burn or scatter incense.

CENSER
Cen"ser, n. Etym: [For incenser, fr. OF. encensier, F. encensoir, fr.
LL. incensarium, incensorium, fr. L. incensum incense. See Incense,
and cf. Incensory.]

Defn: A vessel for perfumes; esp. one in which incense is burned.

Note: The ecclesiastical censer is usually cup-shaped, has a cover
pierced with holes, and is hung by chains. The censer bearer swings
it to quicken the combustion.
Her thoughts are like the fume of frankincense Which from a golden
censer forth doth rise. Spenser.

CENSOR
Cen"sor, n. Etym: [L. censor, fr. censere to value, tax.]

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: One of two magistrates of Rome who took a register of the
number and property of citizens, and who also exercised the office of
inspector of morals and conduct.

2. One who is empowered to examine manuscripts before they are
committed to the press, and to forbid their publication if they
contain anything obnoxious; -- an official in some European
countries.

3. One given to fault-finding; a censurer.
Nor can the most circumspect attention, or steady rectitude, escape
blame from censors who have no inclination to approve. Rambler.

4. A critic; a reviewer.
Received with caution by the censors of the press. W. Irving.

CENSORIAL
Cen*so"ri*al, a.

1. Belonging to a censor, or to the correction of public morals.
Junius.

2. Full of censure; censorious.
The censorial declamation of Juvenal. T. Warton.

CENSORIAN
Cen*so"ri*an, a.

Defn: Censorial. [R.] Bacon.

CENSORIOUS
Cen*so"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. censorius pertaining to the censor. See
Censor.]

1. Addicted to censure; apt to blame or condemn; severe in making
remarks on others, or on their writings or manners.
A dogmatical spirit inclines a man to be consorious of his neighbors.
Watts.

2. Implying or expressing censure; as, censorious remarks.

Syn.
 -- Fault-finding; carping; caviling; captious; severe; condemnatory;
hypercritical.
 -- Cen*so"ri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Cen*so"ri*ous*ness, n.

CENSORSHIP
Cen"sor*ship, n.

Defn: The office or power of a censor; as, to stand for a censorship.
Holland.
The press was not indeed at that moment under a general censorship.
Macaulay.

CENSUAL
Cen"su*al, a. Etym: [L. censualis, fr. census.]

Defn: Relating to, or containing, a census.
He caused the whole realm to be described in a censual roll. Sir R.
Baker.

CENSURABLE
Cen"sur*a*ble, a.

Defn: Deserving of censure; blamable; culpable; reprehensible; as, a
censurable person, or censurable conduct.
 -- Cen"sur*a*bleness, n.
 -- Cen"sur*a*bly, adv.

CENSURE
Cen"sure, n. Etym: [L. censura fr. censere: cf. F. censure. Cf.
Censor.]

1. Judgment either favorable or unfavorable; opinion. [Obs.]
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment. Shak.

2. The act of blaming or finding fault with and condemning as wrong;
reprehension; blame.
Both the censure and the praise were merited. Macaulay.

3. Judicial or ecclesiastical sentence or reprimand; condemnatory
judgment.
Excommunication or other censure of the church. Bp. Burnet.

Syn.
 -- Blame; reproof; condemnation; reprobation; disapproval;
disapprobation; reprehension; animadversion; reprimand; reflection;
dispraise; abuse.

CENSURE
Cen"sure, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Censured; p. pr. & vb. n. Censuring.]
Etym: [Cf. F. ensurer.]

1. To form or express a judgment in regard to; to estimate; to judge.
[Obs.] "Should I say more, you might well censure me a flatterer."
Beau. & Fl.

2. To find fault with and condemn as wrong; to blame; to express
disapprobation of.
I may be censured that nature thus gives way to loyalty. Shak.

3. To condemn or reprimand by a judicial or ecclesiastical sentence.
Shak.

Syn.
 -- To blame; reprove; rebuke; condemn; reprehend; reprimand.

CENSURE
Cen"sure, v. i.

Defn: To judge. [Obs.] Shak.

CENSURER
Cen"sur*er, n.

Defn: One who censures. Sha.

CENSUS
Cen"sus, n. Etym: [L. census, fr. censere. See Censor.]

1. (Bot. Antiq.)

Defn: A numbering of the people, and valuation of their estate, for
the purpose of imposing taxes, etc.; -- usually made once in five
years.

2. An official registration of the number of the people, the value of
their estates, and other general statistics of a country.

Note: A general census of the United States was first taken in 1790,
and one has been taken at the end of every ten years since.

CENT
Cent, n. Etym: [F. cent hundred, L. centum. See Hundred.]

1. A hundred; as, ten per cent, the proportion of ten parts in a
hundred.

2. A United States coin, the hundredth part of a dollar, formerly
made of copper, now of copper, tin, and zinc.

3. An old game at cards, supposed to be like piquet; -- so called
because 100 points won the game. Nares.

CENTAGE
Cent"age, n.

Defn: Rate by the hundred; percentage.

CENTAL
Cen"tal, n. Etym: [L. centum a hundred.]

Defn: A weight of one hundred pounds avoirdupois; -- called in many
parts of the United States a Hundredweight.

CENTAL
Cen"tal, n.

Defn: Relating to a hundred. Cental system, the method of buying and
selling by the cental, or hundredweight.

CENTARE
Cen"tare`, n. Etym: [F. centiare; centi- (L. centum) + -are.]

Defn: A measure of area, the hundredth part of an are; one square
meter, or about 1

CENTAUR
Cen"taur, n. Etym: [L. centaurus, Gr.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A fabulous being, represented as half man and half horse.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation in the southern heavens between Hydra and the
Southern Cross.

CENTAUREA
Cen`tau*re"a, n. Etym: [NL. See Centaury.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large genus of composite plants, related to the thistles and
including the cornflower or bluebottle (Centaurea Cyanus) and the
star thistle (C. Calcitrapa).

CENTAUROMACHY
Cen`tau*rom"a*chy, n. [Gr. ;  centaur +  battle.] (Ancient Art)

Defn: A fight in which centaurs take part, -- a common theme for
relief sculpture, as in the Parthenon metopes.

CENTAURY
Cen"tau*ry, n. Etym: [L. centaureum and centauria, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A gentianaceous plant not fully identified. The name is usually
given to the Erytheræa Centaurium and the Chlora perfoliata of
Europe, but is also extended to the whole genus Sabbatia, and even to
the unrelated Centaurea.

CENTENARIAN
Cen`te*na"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or relating to a hundred years.
 -- n.

Defn: A person a hundred years old.

CENTENARY
Cen"te*na*ry, a. Etym: [L. centenarius, fr. centum a hundred.]

1. Relating to, or consisting of, a hundred.

2. Occurring once in every hundred years; centennial. "Centenary
solemnities." Fuller.

CENTENARY
Cen"te*na*ry, n.; pl. Centenaries (.

1. The aggregate of a hundred single things; specifically, a century.
"Every centenary of years." Hakewill.

2. A commemoration or celebration of an event which occurred a hudred
years before.

CENTENNIAL
Cen*ten"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. centum a hundred + annus year.]

1. Relating to, or associated with, the commemoration of an event
that happened a hundred years before; as, a centennial ode.

2. Happening once in a hundred years; as, centennial jubilee; a
centennial celebration.

3. Lasting or aged a hundred years.
Thet opened through long lines Of sacred ilex and centennial pines.
Longfellow.

CENTENNIAL
Cen*ten"ni*al, n.

Defn: The celebration of the hundredth anniversary of any event; a
centenary. [U. S.]

CENTENNIALLY
Cen*ten"ni*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Once in a hundred years.

CENTENNIAL STATE
Centennial State.

Defn: Colorado; -- a nickname alluding to the fact that it was
admitted to the Union in the centennial year, 1876.

CENTER
Cen"ter, n. Etym: [F. centre, fr. L. centrum, fr. round which a
circle is described, fr.

1. A point equally distant from the extremities of a line, figure, or
body, or from all parts of the circumference of a circle; the middle
point or place.

2. The middle or central portion of anything.

3. A principal or important point of concentration; the nucleus
around which things are gathered or to which they tend; an object of
attention, action, or force; as, a center of attaction.

4. The earth. [Obs.] Shak.

5. Those members of a legislative assembly (as in France) who support
the existing government. They sit in the middle of the legislative
chamber, opposite the presiding officer, between the conservatives or
monarchists, who sit on the right of the speaker, and the radicals or
advanced republicans who occupy the seats on his left, See Right, and
Left.

6. (Arch.)

Defn: A temporary structure upon which the materials of a vault or
arch are supported in position util the work becomes self-supporting.

7. (Mech.)
(a) One of the two conical steel pins, in a lathe, etc., upon which
the work is held, and about which it revolves.
(b) A conical recess, or indentation, in the end of a shaft or other
work, to receive the point of a center, on which the work can turn,
as in a lathe.

Note: In a lathe the live center is in the spindle of the head stock;
the dead center is on the tail stock. Planer centers are stocks
carrying centers, when the object to be planed must be turned on its
axis. Center of an army, the body or troops ossupying the place in
the line between the wings.
 -- Center of a curve or surface (Geom.) (a) A point such that every
line drawn through the point and terminated by the curve or surface
is bisected at the point. (b) The fixed point of reference in polar
coördinates. See Coördinates.
 -- Center of curvature of a curve (Geom.), the center of that circle
which has at any given point of the curve closer contact with the
curve than has any other circle whatever. See Circle.
 -- Center of a fleet, the division or column between the van and
rear, or between the weather division and the lee.
 -- Center of gravity (Mech.), that point of a body about which all
its parts can be balanced, or which being supported, the whole body
will remain at rest, though acted upon by gravity.
 -- Center of gyration (Mech.), that point in a rotating body at
which the whole mass might be concentrated (theoretically) without
altering the resistance of the intertia of the body to angular
acceleration or retardaton.
 -- Center of inertia (Mech.), the center of gravity of a body or
system of bodies.
 -- Center of motion, the point which remains at rest, while all the
other parts of a body move round it.
 -- Center of oscillation, the point at which, if the whole matter of
a suspended body were collected, the time of oscillation would be the
same as it is in the actual form and state of the body.
 -- Center of percussion, that point in a body moving about a fixed
axis at which it may strike an obstacle without communicating a shock
to the axis.
 -- Center of pressure (Hydros.), that point in a surface pressed by
a fluid, at which, if a force equal to the whole pressure and in the
same line be applied in a contrary direction, it will balance or
counteract the whole pressure of the fluid.

CENTER; CENTRE
Cen"ter, Cen"tre v. i. [imp. & p. p. Centered or Centred (; p. pr. &
vb. n. Centering or Centring.]

1. To be placed in a center; to be central.

2. To be collected to a point; to be concentrated; to rest on, or
gather about, as a center.
Where there is no visible truth wherein to center, error is as wide
as men's fancies. Dr. H. More.
Our hopes must center in ourselves alone. Dryden.

CENTER; CENTRE
Cen"ter , Cen"tre, v. t.

1. To place or fix in the center or on a central point. Milton.

2. To collect to a point; to concentrate.
Thy joys are centered all in me alome. Prior.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: To form a recess or indentation for the reception of a center.

CENTERBIT; CENTREBIT
Cen"ter*bit`, Cen"tre*bit`, n.

Defn: An instrument turning on a center, for boring holes. See Bit,
n., 3.

CENTERBOARD; CENTREBOARD
Cen"ter*board`, Cen"tre*board,, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A movable or sliding keel formed of a broad board or slab of
wood or metal which may be raised into a water-tight case amidships,
when in shallow water, or may be lowered to increase the area of
lateral resistance and prevent leeway when the vessel is beating to
windward. It is used in vessels of all sizes along the coast of the
United States

CENTERFIRE CARTRIDGE
Cen"ter*fire` car"tridge.

Defn: See under Cartridge.

CENTERING
Cen"ter*ing, n. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Center, n., 6. [Written also centring.]

CENTERPIECE; CENTREPIECE
Cen"ter*piece`, Cen"tre*piece`, n.

Defn: An ornament to be placed in the center, as of a table, ceiling,
atc.; a central article or figure.

CENTESIMAL
Cen*tes"i*mal, a. Etym: [L. centesimus the hundredth, fr. centum a
hundred: cf. F. centésimal.]

Defn: Hundredth.
 -- n.

Defn: A hundredth part.
The neglect of a few centesimals. Arbuthnot.

CENTESIMATION
Cen*tes`i*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. centesimore to take out or select
every hudredth, fr. centesimus hundredth.] (Mil.)

Defn: The infliction of the death penalty upon one person in every
hundred, as in cases of mutiny.

CENTESIMO
Cen*tes"i*mo, n.; pl. -mi. Etym: [It. & Sp.]

Defn: A copper coin of Italy and Spain equivalent to a centime.

CENTESM
Cen"tesm, n. Etym: [L. centesima.]

Defn: Hundredth.

CENTIARE
Cen"ti*are`, n. Etym: [F. See Centare.]

Defn: See centare.

CENTICIPITOUS
Cen`ti*cip"i*tous, a. Etym: [L. centiceps, -cipitis; centum a hunder
+ caput head.]

Defn: Hundred-headed.

CENTIFIDOUS
Cen*tif"i*dous, a. Etym: [L. centifidus; centum + findere to split.]

Defn: Divided into a hundred parts.

CENTIFOLIOUS
Cen`ti*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. centifolius; centum + folium leaf.]

Defn: Having a hundred leaves.

CENTIGRADE
Cen"ti*grade, a. Etym: [L. centum a hundred + gradus degree: cf. F.
centigrade.]

Defn: Consisting of a hundred degrees; graduated into a hundred
divisions or equal parts. Spesifically: of or pertaining the
centigrade thermometer; as, 10° centigrade (or 10° C.). Centigrade
thermometer, a thermometer having the zero or 0 at the point
indicating the freezing state of water, and the distance between that
and the point indicating the boiling state of water divided into one
hundred degrees. It is called also the Celsius thermometer, from
Anders Celsius, the originator of this scale.

CENTIGRAM; CENTIGRAMME
Cen"ti*gram, Cen"ti*gramme, n. Etym: [F. centigramme; centi- (L.
centum) + gramme. See Gram.]

Defn: The hundredth part of a gram; a weight equal to .15432 of a
grain. See Gram.

CENTILITER; CENTILITRE
Cen"ti*li`ter, Cen"ti*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. centilitre; centi (L.
centum) + litre. See Liter.]

Defn: The hundredth part of a liter; a measure of volume or capacity
equal to a little more than six tenths (0.6102) of a cubic inch, or
one third (0.338) of a fluid ounce.

CENTILOQUY
Cen*til"o*quy, n. Etym: [L. centum hundred + logui to speak.]

Defn: A work divided into a hundred parts. [R.] Burton.

CENTIME
Cen`time", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. centesimus. See Centesimal.] (F.
Coinage)

Defn: The hundredth part of a franc; a small French copper coin and
money of account.

CENTIMETER; CENTIMETRE
Cen"ti*me`ter, Cen"ti*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. centimètre; centi- (L.
centum) + mètre. See Meter.]

Defn: The hundredth part of a meter; a measure of length equal to
rather more than thirty-nine hundredths (0.3937) of an inch. See
Meter.

CENTINEL
Cen"ti*nel, n.

Defn: Sentinel. [Obs.] Sackville.

CENTINODY
Cen*tin"o*dy, n. Etym: [L. centum a hundred + nodus knot: cf. F.
centinode.] (Bot.)

Defn: A weed with a sterm of many joints (Illecebrum verticillatum);
also, the Polygonum aviculare or knotgrass.

CENTIPED
Cen"ti*ped, n. Etym: [L. centipeda; centum a hundred + pes, pedis,
foot: cf. F. centipède.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of the Myriapoda; esp. the large, flattened, venomous
kinds of the order Chilopoda, found in tropical climates. they are
many-jointed, and have a great number of feet. [Written also
centipede (

CENTISTERE
Cen"ti*stere, n. Etym: [F. centistère; centi- (l. centum) + stère.]

Defn: The hundredth part of a stere, equal to .353 cubic feet.

CENTNER
Cent"ner, n. Etym: [Cf. G. centner a hundred-weight, fr. L.
centenarius of a hundred, fr. centum a hundred.]

1. (Metal. & Assaying)

Defn: A weight divisible first into a hundred parts, and then into
smaller parts.

Note: The metallurgists use a weight divided into a hundred equal
parts, each one pound; the whole they call a centner: the pound is
divided into thirty-two parts, or half ounces; the half ounce into
two quarters; and each of these into two drams. But the assayers use
different weights. With them a centner is one dram, to which the
other parts are proportioned.

2. The commercial hundredweight in several of the continental
countries, varying in different places from 100 to about 112 pounds.

CENTO
Cen"to, n.; pl. Centos. Etym: [L. cento a garment of several pieces
sewed together, patchwork, a poem made up of various verses of
another poem.]

Defn: A literary or a musical composition formed by selections from
different authors disposed in a new order.

CENTONISM
Cen"to*nism, n.

Defn: The composition of a cento; the act or practice of composing a
cento or centos.

CENTRAL
Cen"tral, a. Etym: [L. centralis, fr. centrum: cf. F. central. See
Center.]

Defn: Relating to the center; situated in or near the center or
middle; containing the center; of or pertaining to the parts near the
center; equidistant or equally accessible from certain points.
Central force (Math.), a force acting upon a body towards or away
from a fixed or movable center.
 -- Center sun (Astron.), a name given to a hypothetical body about
which Mädler supposed the solar system together with all the stars in
the Milky Way, to be revolving. A point near Alcyone in the Pleiades
was supposed to possess characteristics of the position of such a
body.

CENTRAL; CENTRALE
Cen"tral, Cen*tra"le, n. Etym: [NL. centrale, fr. L. centralis.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The central, or one of the central, bones of the carpus or or
tarsus. In the tarsus of man it is represented by the navicular.

CENTRALISM
Cen"tral*ism, n.

1. The state or condition of being central; the combination of
several parts into one whole; centralization.

2. The system by which power is centralized, as in a government.

CENTRALITY
Cen*tral"i*ty, n.; pl. Centralities (.

Defn: The state of being central; tendency towards a center.
Meantime there is a great centrality, a centripetence equal to the
centrifugence. R. W. Emerson.

CENTRALIZATION
Cen`tral*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. centralisation.]

Defn: The act or process of centralizing, or the state of being
centralized; the act or process of combining or reducing several
parts into a whole; as, the centralization of power in the general
government; the centralization of commerce in a city.

CENTRALIZE
Cen"tral*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Centralized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Centralizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. centraliser.]

Defn: To draw or bring to a center point; to gather into or about a
center; to bring into one system, or under one control.
[To] centralize the power of government. Bancroft.

CENTRALLY
Cen"tral*ly, adv.

Defn: In a central manner or situation.

CENTRE
Cen"tre, n. & v.

Defn: See Center.

CENTRIC; CENTRICAL
Cen"tric, Cen"tric*al, a.

Defn: Placed in the center or middle; central.
At York or some other centrical place. Sir W. Scott.
-- Cen"tric*al*ly, adv.
 -- Cen"tric*al*ness, n.

CENTRICITY
Cen*tric"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being centric; centricalness.

CENTRIFUGAL
Cen*trif"u*gal, a. Etym: [L. centrum center + fugere to flee.]

1. Tending, or causing, to recede from the center.

2. (Bot.)
(a) Expanding first at the summit, and later at the base, as a flower
cluster.
(b) Having the radicle turned toward the sides of the fruit, as some
embryos. Centrifugal force (Mech.), a force whose direction is from a
center.

Note: When a body moves in a circle with uniform velocity, a force
must act on the body to keep it in the circle without change of
velocity. The direction of this force is towards the center of the
circle. If this force is applied by means of a string to the body,
the string will be in a state of tension. To a person holding the
other end of the string, this tension will appear to be directed
toward the body as if the body had a tendency to move away from the
center of the circle which it is describing. Hence this latter force
is often called centrifugal force. The force which really acts on the
body being directed towards the center of the circle is called
centripetal force, and in some popular treatises the centripetal and
centrifugal forces are described as opposing and balancing each
other. But they are merely the different aspects of the same stress.
Clerk Maxwell. Centrifugal impression (Physiol.), an impression
(motor) sent from a nerve center outwards to a muscle or muscles by
which motion is produced.
 -- Centrifugal machine, A machine for expelling water or other
fluids from moist substances, or for separating liquids of different
densities by centrifugal action; a whirling table.
 -- Centrifugal pump, a machine in which water or other fluid is
lifted and discharged through a pipe by the energy imparted by a
wheel or blades revolving in a fixed case. Some of the largest and
most powerful pumps are of this kind.

CENTRIFUGAL
Cen*trif"u*gal, n.

Defn: A centrifugal machine.

CENTRIFUGAL FILTER
Cen*trif"u*gal fil"ter.

Defn: A filter, as for sugar, in which a cylinder with a porous or
foraminous periphery is rapidly rotated so as to drive off liquid by
centrifugal action.

CENTRIFUGENCE
Cen*trif"u*gence, n.

Defn: The property or quality of being centrifugal. R. W. Emerson.

CENTRING
Cen"tring, n.

Defn: See Centring.

CENTRIPETAL
Cen*trip"e*tal, a. Etym: [L. centrum center + peter to more toward.]

1. Tending, or causing, to approach the center.

2. (Bot.) (a) Expanding first at the base of the inflorescence, and
proceeding in order towards the summit. (b) Having the radicle turned
toward the axis of the fruit, as some embryos.

3. Progressing by changes from the exterior of a thing toward its
center; as, the centripetal calcification of a bone. R. Owen.
Centripetal force (Mech.), a force whose direction is towards a
center, as in case of a planet revolving round the sun, the center of
the system, See Centrifugal force, under Centrifugal.
 -- Centripetal impression (Physiol.), an impression (sensory)
transmitted by an afferent nerve from the exterior of the body
inwards, to the central organ.

CENTRIPETENCE
Cen*trip"e*tence, n.

Defn: Centripetency.

CENTRIPETENCY
Cen*trip"e*ten*cy, n.

Defn: Tendency toward the center.

CENTRISCOID
Cen*tris"coid, a. Etym: [NL. Centriscus (r. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Allied to, or resembling, the genus Centriscus, of which the
bellows fish is an example.

CENTROBARIC
Cen`tro*bar"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (

Defn: Relating to the center of gravity, or to the process of finding
it. Centrobaric method (Math.), a process invented for the purpose of
measuring the area or the volume generated by the rotation of a line
or surface about a fixed axis, depending upon the principle that
every figure formed by the revolution of a line or surface about such
an axis has for measure the product of the line or surface by the
length of the path of its center of gravity; -- sometimes called
theorem of Pappus, also, incorrectly, Guldinus's properties. See
Barycentric calculus, under Calculus.

CENTRODE
Cen"trode, n. (Kinematics)

Defn: In two figures having relative motion, one of the two curves
which are the loci of the instantaneous center.

CENTROID
Cen"troid, n. Etym: [L. centrum + -oid.]

Defn: The center of mass, inertia, or gravity of a body or system of
bodies.

CENTROLECITHAL
Cen`tro*lec"i*thal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Having the food yolk placed at the center of the ovum,
segmentation being either regular or unequal. Balfour.

CENTROLINEAD
Cen`tro*lin"e*ad, n.

Defn: An instrument for drawing lines through a point, or lines
converging to a center.

CENTROLINEAL
Cen`tro*lin"e*al, a. Etym: [L. centrum + linea line.]

Defn: Converging to a center; -- applied to lines drawn so as to meet
in a point or center.

CENTROSOME
Cen"tro*some`, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A peculiar rounded body lying near the nucleus of a cell. It is
regarded as the dynamic element by means of which the machinery of
cell division is organized.

CENTROSPHERE
Cen"tro*sphere, n. [Gr.  centre + sphere.]

1.  (Geol.)

Defn: The nucleus or central part of the earth, forming most of its
mass; -- disting. from lithosphere, hydrosphere, etc.

2.  (Biol.) The central mass of an aster from which the rays extend
and within which the centrosome lies when present; the attraction
sphere. The name has been used both as excluding and including the
centrosome, and also to designate a modified mass of protoplasm about
a centrosome whether aster rays are developed or not.

CENTROSTALTIC
Cen`tro*stal"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A term applied to the action of nerve force in the spinal
center. Marshall Hall.

CENTRUM
Cen"trum, n.; pl. E. Centrums, L. Centra. Etym: [L., center.] (Anat.)

Defn: The body, or axis, of a vertebra. See Vertebra.

CENTRY
Cen"try, n.

Defn: See Sentry. [Obs.] Gray.

CENTUMVIR
Cen*tum"vir, n.; pl. Centumviri. Etym: [L., fr. centum hundred + Vir
man.] (Rom. Hist.)

Defn: One of a court of about one hundred judges chosen to try civil
suits. Under the empire the court was increased to 180, and met
usually in four sections.

CENTUMVIRAL
Cen*tum"vi*ral, a. Etym: [L. centumvitalis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the centumviri, or to a centumvir.

CENTUMVIRATE
Cen*tum"vi*rate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. centumvirat.]

Defn: The office of a centumvir, or of the centumviri.

CENTUPLE
Cen"tu*ple, a. Etym: [L. centuplex; centum + plicare to fold; cf. F.
centuple.]

Defn: Hundredfold.

CENTUPLE
Cen"tu*ple, v. t.

Defn: To increase a hundredfold.

CENTUPLICATE
Cen*tu"pli*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Centuplicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Centuplicating.] Etym: [L. centuplicare. See Centuple, a.]

Defn: To make a hundredfold; to repeat a hundred times. [R.] Howell.

CENTURIAL
Cen*tu"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. See Century.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a century; as, a centurial sermon. [R.]

CENTURIATE
Cen*tu"ri*ate, a. Etym: [L. centuriatus, p. p. of centuriare to
divide (men) into centuries.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or divided into, centuries or hundreds. [R.]
Holland.

CENTURIATE
Cen*tu"ri*ate, v. t. Etym: [See century.]

Defn: To divide into hundreds. [Obs.]

CENTURIATOR; CENTURIST
Cen*tu"ri*a`tor, Cen"tu*rist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. centuriateur.]

Defn: An historian who distinguishes time by centuries, esp. one of
those who wrote the "Magdeburg Centuries." See under Century. [R.]

CENTURION
Cen*tu"ri*on, n. Etym: [L. centurio, fr. centuria; cf. F. centurion.
See Century.] (Rom. Hist.)

Defn: A military officer who commanded a minor division of the Roman
army; a captain of a century.
A centurion of the hand called the Italian band. Acts x. 1.

CENTURY
Cen"tu*ry, n.; pl. Centuries. Etym: [L. centuria (in senses 1 & 3),
fr. centum a hundred: cf. F. centurie. See Cent.]

1. A hundred; as, a century of sonnets; an aggregate of a hundred
things. [Archaic.]
And on it said a century of prayers. Shak.

2. A period of a hundred years; as, this event took place over two
centuries ago.

Note: Century, in the reckoning of time, although often used in a
general way of any series of hundred consecutive years (as, a century
of temperance work), usually signifies a division of the Christian
era, consisting of a period of one hundred years ending with the
hundredth year from which it is named; as, the first century (a. d.
1-100 inclusive); the seventh century (a.d. 601-700); the eighteenth
century (a.d. 1701-1800). With words or phrases connecting it with
some other system of chronology it is used of similar division of
those eras; as, the first century of Rome (A.U.C. 1-100).

3. (Rom. Antiq.)
(a) A division of the Roman people formed according to their
property, for the purpose of voting for civil officers.
(b) One of sixty companies into which a legion of the army was
divided. It was Commanded by a centurion. Century plant (Bot.), the
Agave Americana, formerly supposed to flower but once in a century; -
- hence the name. See Agave.
 -- The Magdeburg Centuries, an ecclesiastical history of the first
thirteen centuries, arranged in thirteen volumes, compiled in the
16th century by Protestant scholars at Magdeburg.

CEORL
Ceorl (keôrl or cherl), n. [AS. See Churl, n.] (O. Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A freeman of the lowest class; one not a thane or of the
servile classes; a churl.

CEPACEOUS
Ce*pa"ceous, a. [L. cepa, caepa, onion.]

Defn: Of the nature of an onion, as in odor; alliaceous.

CEPEVOROUS
Ce*pev"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. cepa an onion + varare to devour.]

Defn: Feeding upon onions. [R.] Sterling.

CEPHALAD
Ceph"a*lad, adv. Etym: [Gr. ad toward.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Forwards; towards the head or anterior extremity of the body;
opposed to caudad.

CEPHALALGIA; CEPHALALGY
Ceph`a*lal"gi*a, Ceph"a*lal`gy, n. Etym: [L. cephalalgia, Gr.
céphalalgie.] (Med.)

Defn: Pain in the head; headache.

CEPHALALGIC
Ceph`a*lal"gic, a. Etym: [L. cephalalgicus, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Relating to, or affected with, headache.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for the headache.

CEPHALANTHIUM
Ceph`a*lan"thi*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Anthodium.

CEPHALASPIS
Ceph`a*las"pis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of fossil ganoid fishes found in the old red sandstone
or Devonian formation. The head is large, and protected by a broad
shield-shaped helmet prolonged behind into two lateral points.

CEPHALATA
Ceph`a*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large division of Mollusca, including all except the
bivalves; -- so called because the head is distinctly developed. See
Illustration in Appendix.

CEPHALATE
Ceph"a*late, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a head.

CEPHALIC
Ce*phal"ic, a. Etym: [L. cephalicus, Gr. céphalique.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the head. See the Note under Anterior.
Cephalic index (Anat.), the ratio of the breadth of the cranium to
the length, which is taken as the standard, and equal to 100; the
breadth index.
 -- Cephalic vein, a large vein running from the back of the head
alond the arm; -- so named because the ancients used to open it for
disorders of the head. Dunglison.

CEPHALIC
Ce*pha"lic, n.

Defn: A medicine for headache, or other disorder in the head.

CEPHALISM
Ceph"a*lism, n. [Gr.  head.] (Anthropol.)

Defn: Form or development of the skull; as, the races of man differ
greatly in cephalism.

CEPHALITIS
Ceph`a*li"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Same as Phrenitis.

CEPHALIZATION
Ceph`a*li*za"tion, n.

Defn: Domination of the head in animal life as expressed in the
physical structure; localization of important organs or parts in or
near the head, in animal development. Dana.

CEPHALO; CEPHALO-
Ceph"a*lo. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form denoting the head, of the head, connected with
the head; as, cephalosome, cephalopod.

CEPHALOCERCAL
Ceph`a*lo*cer"cal, a. Etym: [Cephalo- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Relating to the long axis of the body.

CEPHALOID
Ceph"a*loid, a. Etym: [Cephalo- + -oid.]

Defn: Shaped like the head. Craing.

CEPHALOLOGY
Ceph`a*lol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Cephalo- + -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of the head.

CEPHALOMERE
Ceph"a*lo*mere, n. Etym: [Cephalo- + -mere.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the somites (arthromeres) which make up the head of
arthropods. Packard.

CEPHALOMETER
Ceph`a*lom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Cephalo- + -meter.] (Med.)

Defn: An instrument measuring the dimensions of the head of a fetus
during delivery.

CEPHALOMETRY
Ceph`a*lom"e*try, n. (Anthropometry)

Defn: The measurement of the heads of living persons. --
Ceph`a*lo*met"ric (#),a.

CEPHALON
Ceph"a*lon, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The head.

CEPHALOPHORA
Ceph`a*loph"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cephalata.

CEPHALOPOD; CEPHALOPODE
Ceph"a*lo*pod, Ceph"a*lo*pode, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cephalopoda.

CEPHALOPODA
Ceph"`a*lop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., gr. Gr. -poda: cf. F.
céphalopode.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The highest class of Mollusca.

Note: They have, around the front of the head, a group of elongated
muscular arms, which are usually furnished with prehensile suckers or
hooks, The head is highly developed, with large, well organized eyes
and ears, and usually with a cartilaginous brain case. The higher
forms, as the cuttlefishes, squids, and octopi, swim rapidly by
ejecting a jet of water from the tubular siphon beneath the head.
They have a pair of powerful horny jaws shaped like a parrot's beak,
and a bag of inklike fluid which they can eject from the siphon, thus
clouding the water in order to escape from their enemies. They are
divided into two orders, the Dibranchiata, having two gills and eight
or ten sucker-bearing arms, and the Tetrabranchiata, with four gills
and numerous arms without suckers. The latter are all extinct except
the Nautilus. See Octopus, Squid, Nautilus.

CEPHALOPODIC; CEPHALOPODOUS
Ceph`a*lo*pod"ic, Ceph`a*lop"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, the cephalopods.

CEPHALOPTERA
Ceph`a*lop"te*ra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the generic names of the gigantic ray (Manta birostris),
known as devilfish and sea devil. It is common on the coasts of South
Carolina, Florida, and farther south. Some of them grow to enormous
size, becoming twenty feet of more across the body, and weighing more
than a ton.

CEPHALOSOME
Ceph"a*lo*some, n. Etym: [Cephalo- + -some body.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The anterior region or head of insects and other arthropods.
Packard.

CEPHALOSTYLE
Ceph"a*lo*style, n. Etym: [Cephalo- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The anterior end of the notochord and its bony sheath in the
base of cartilaginous crania.

CEPHALOTHORAX
Ceph`a*lo*tho"rax, n. Etym: [Cephalo- + thorax.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The anterior portion of any one of the Arachnida and higher
Crustacea, consisting of the united head and thorax.

CEPHALOTOME
Ceph"a*lo*tome, n. Etym: [Cephalo- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: An instrument for cutting into the fetal head, to facilitate
delivery.

CEPHALOTOMY
Ceph`a*lot"o*my, n.

1. Dissection or opening of the head.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Craniotomy; -- usually applied to bisection of the fetal head
with a saw.

CEPHALOTRIBE
Ceph"a*lo*tribe, n. Etym: [Cephalo- + Gr. to rub, grind.]

Defn: An obstetrical instrument for performing cephalotripsy.

CEPHALOTRIPSY
Ceph"a*lo*trip`sy, n. Etym: [See Cephalotribe.] (Med.)

Defn: The act or operation of crushing the head of a fetus in the
womb in order to effect delivery.

CEPHALOTROCHA
Ceph`a*lot"ro*cha, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of annelid larva with a circle of cilia around the head.

CEPHALOUS
Ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a head; -- applied chiefly to the Cephalata, a division
of mollusks.

CEPHEUS
Ce"pheus, n.

Defn: (Astron.) A northern constellation near the pole. Its head,
which is in the Milky Way, is marked by a triangle formed by three
stars of the fourth magnitude. See Cassiopeia.

CERACEOUS
Ce*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [L. cera wax.]

Defn: Having the texture and color of new wax; like wax; waxy.

CERAGO
Ce*ra"go, n. Etym: [L. cera wax.]

Defn: Beebread.

CERAMIC
Ce*ram"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Keramic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to pottery; relating to the art of making
earthenware; as, ceramic products; ceramic ornaments for ceilings.

CERAMICS
Ce*ram"ics, n. Etym: [See Ceramic.]

1. The art of making things of baked clay; as pottery, tiles, etc.

2. pl.

Defn: Work formed of clay in whole or in part, and baked; as, vases,
urns, etc. Knight.

CERARGYRITE
Ce*rar"gy*rite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Native silver chloride, a mineral of a white to pale yellow or
gray color, darkening on exposure to the light. It may be cut by a
knife, like lead or horn (hence called horn silver).

CERASIN
Cer"a*sin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white amorphous substance, the insoluble part of cherry gum;
-- called also meta-arabinic acid.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A gummy mucilaginous substance; -- called also bassorin,
tragacanthin, etc.

CERASINOUS
Ce*ras"i*nous, a.

1. Pertaining to, or containing, cerasin.

2. Of a cherry color.

CERASTES
Ce*ras"tes, n. Etym: [L., a horned serpent, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of poisonous African serpents, with a horny scale over
each eye; the horned viper.

CERATE
Ce"rate, n. Etym: [L. ceratum, ceratm, fr. cera wax.] (Med.)

Defn: An unctuous preparation for external application, of a
consistence intermediate between that of an ointment and a plaster,
so that it can be spread upon cloth without the use of heat, but does
not melt when applied to the skin.

Note: Cerate consists essentially of wax (for which resin or
spermaceti is sometimes substituted) mixed with oil, lard, and
various medicinal ingredients. The cerate (formerly called simple
cerate) of the United States Pharmacopoeia is a mixture of three
parts of white wax and seven parts of lard.

CERATED
Ce"ra*ted, p. a. Etym: [L. ceratus, p. p. of cerare to wax, fr. cera
wax.]

Defn: Covered with wax.

CERATINE
Cer"a*tine, a. Etym: [Gr. (Lagic.)

Defn: Sophistical.

CERATOBRANCHIA
Cer`a*to*bran"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. n. pl., gills.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of nudibranchiate Mollusca having on the back
papilliform or branched organs serving as gills.

CERATOBRANCHIAL
Cer`a*to*bran"chi*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the bone, or cartilage, below the epibranchial in
a branchial arch.
 -- n.

Defn: A ceratobranchial bone, or cartilage.

CERATODUS
Ce*rat"o*dus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ganoid fishes, of the order Dipnoi, first known as
Mesozoic fossil fishes; but recently two living species have been
discovered in Australian rivers. They have lungs so well developed
that they can leave the water and breathe in air. In Australia they
are called salmon and baramunda. See Dipnoi, and Archipterygium.

CERATOHYAL
Cer`a*to*hy"al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the bone, or carts, large, below the epihyal in
the hyoid arch.
 -- n.

Defn: A ceratohyal bone, or cartilage, which, in man, forms one of
the small horns of the hyoid.

CERATOSAURUS
Cer`a*to*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A carnivorous American Jurassic dinosaur allied to the European
Megalosaurus. The animal was nearly twenty feet in length, and the
skull bears a bony horn core on the united nasal bones. See
Illustration in Appendix.

CERATOSPONGIAE
Cer`a*to*spon"gi*æ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of sponges in which the skeleton consists of horny
fibers. It includes all the commercial sponges.

CERAUNICS
Ce*rau"nics, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: That branch of physics which treats of heat and electricity. R.
Park.

CERAUNOSCOPE
Ce*rau"no*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: An instrument or apparatus employed in the ancient mysteries to
imitate thunder and lightning. T. Moore.

CERBEREAN
Cer*be"re*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or resembling, Cerberus. [Written also
Cerberian.]
With wide Cerberean mouth. Milton.

CERBERUS
Cer"be*rus, n. Etym: [L. Cerberus (in sense 1), gr.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A monster, in the shape, of a three-headed dog, guarding the
entrance into the infernal regions, Hence: Any vigilant custodian or
guardian, esp. if surly.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of East Indian serpents, allied to the pythons; the
bokadam.

CERCAL
Cer"cal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tail.

CERCARIA
Cer*ca"ri*a, n.; pl. Cercarle ( Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larval form of a trematode worm having the shape of a
tadpole, with its body terminated by a tail-like appendage.

CERCARIAN
Cer*ca"ri*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of, like, or pertaining to, the Cercariæ.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Cercariæ.

CERCOPOD
Cer"co*pod, n. Etym: [Gr. -pod.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the jointed antenniform appendage of the posterior
somites of cartain insects. Packard.

CERCUS
Cer"cus, n.; pl. Cerci (. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cercopod.

CERE
Cere, n. Etym: [L. cera wax: cf. F. cire.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The soft naked sheath at the base of the beak of birds of prey,
parrots, and some other birds. See Beak.

CERE
Cere, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cering.] Etym: [L.
cerare, fr. cera wax: cf. F. cirer.]

Defn: To wax; to cover or close with wax. Wiseman.

CEREAL
Ce"re*al, a. Etym: [L. Cerealis pert. to Ceres, and hence, to
agriculture. See Ceres.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the grasses which are cultivated for their
edible seeds (as wheat, maize, rice, etc.), or to their seeds or
grain.

CEREAL
Ce"re*al n.

Defn: Any grass cultivated for its edible grain, or the grain itself;
-- usually in the plural.

CEREALIA
Ce`re*a"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [L. See Cereal.]

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: Public festivals in honor of Ceres.

2. The cereals. Crabb.

CEREALIN
Ce"re*a*lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance closely resembling diastase, obtained
from bran, and possessing the power of converting starch into
dextrin, sugar, and lactic acid. Watts.

CEREBEL
Cer"e*bel, n.

Defn: The cerebellum. Derham.

CEREBELLAR; CEREBELLOUS
Cer`e*bel"lar, Cer`e*bel"lous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the cerebellum.

CEREBELLUM
Cer`e*bel"lum, n.; pl. E. Cerebellums (, L. Cerebella (. Etym: [L.,
dim. of cerebrum brain.] (Anat.)

Defn: The large lobe of the hind brain in front of and above the
medulla; the little brain. It controls combined muscular action. See
Brain.

CEREBRAL
Cer"e*bral, a. Etym: [L. cerebrum brain; akin to Gr. cérébral. See
Cheer.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cerebrum. Cerebral apoplexy. See under
Apoplexy.

CEREBRAL
Cer"e*bral, n. Etym: [A false translation of the Skr. murdhanya,
lit., head-sounds.]

Defn: One of a class of lingual consonants in the East Indian
languages. See Lingual, n.

Note: Prof. W. D. Whitney calls these letters linguals, and this is
their usual designation in the United States.

CEREBRALISM
Cer"e*bral*ism, n. (Philos.)

Defn: The doctrine or theory that psychical phenomena are functions
or products of the brain only.

CEREBRALIST
Cer"e*bral*ist, n.

Defn: One who accepts cerebralism.

CEREBRATE
Cer"e*brate, v. i. (Physiol.)

Defn: To exhibit mental activity; to have the brain in action.

CEREBRATION
Cer`e*bra"tion, n.

Defn: Action of the brain, whether conscious or unconscious.

CEREBRIC
Cer"e*bric, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the brain. Cerebric acid
(Physiol. Chem.), a name formerly sometimes given to cerebrin.

CEREBRICITY
Cer`e*bric"i*ty, n.

Defn: Brain power. [R.]

CEREBRIFORM
Ce*reb"ri*form, a. Etym: [Cerebrum + -form.]

Defn: Like the brain in form or substance.

CEREBRIFUGAL
Cer`e*brif"u*gal, a. Etym: [Cerebrum + L. fugere to flee.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the brain to the
spinal cord, and so transfer cerebral impulses (centrifugal
impressions) outwards.

CEREBRIN
Cer"e*brin, n. Etym: [From Cerebrum.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A nonphosphorized, nitrogenous substance, obtained from brain
and nerve tissue by extraction with boiling alcohol. It is uncertain
whether it exists as such in nerve tissue, or is a product of the
decomposition of some more complex substance.

CEREBRIPETAL
Cer`e*brip"e*tal, a. Etym: [Cerebrum + L. petere to seek.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the spinal cord to
the brain and so transfer sensations (centripetal impressions) from
the exterior inwards.

CEREBRITIS
Cer`e*bri"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. E. cerebrum + -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the cerebrum.

CEREBROID
Cer"e*broid, a. Etym: [Cerebrum + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling, or analogous to, the cerebrum or brain.

CEREBROLOGY
Cer`e*brol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Cerebrum + -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of the cerebrum or brain.

CEREBROPATHY
Cer`e*brop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Cerebrum + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A hypochondriacal condition verging upon insanity, occurring in
those whose brains have been unduly taxed; -- called also brain fag.

CEREBROSCOPY
Cer`e*bros"co*py, n. Etym: [Cerebrum + -scopy.] (Med.)

Defn: Examination of the brain for the diagnosis of diseas; esp., the
act or process of diagnosticating the condition of the brain by
examination of the interior of the eye (as with an ophthalmoscope).
Buck.

CEREBROSE
Cer`e*brose", n. Etym: [From Cerebrum.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A sugarlike body obtained by the decomposition of the
nitrogenous non-phosphorized principles of the brain.

CEREBRO-SPINAL
Cer`e*bro-spi"nal, a. Etym: [Cerebrum + spinal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the central nervous system consisting of
the brain and spinal cord. Cerebro-spinal fluid (Physiol.), a serous
fluid secreted by the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord.
 -- Cerebro-spinal meningitis, Cerebro-spinal fever (Med.), a
dangerous epidemic, and endemic, febrile disease, characterized by
inflammation of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord, giving
rise to severe headaches, tenderness of the back of the neck,
paralysis of the ocular muscles, etc. It is sometimes marked by a
cutaneous eruption, when it is often called spotted fever. It is not
contagious.

CEREBRUM
Cer"e*brum, n.; pl. E. Cerebrums, L. Cerebra. Etym: [L., the brain.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The anterior, and in man the larger, division of the brain; the
seat of the reasoning faculties and the will. See Brain.

CERECLOTH
Cere"cloth`, n. Etym: [L. cera wax + E. cloth.]

Defn: A cloth smeared with melted wax, or with some gummy or
glutinous matter.
Linen, besmeared with gums, in manner of cerecloth. Bacon.

CEREMENT
Cere"ment, n. Etym: [L. cera wax: cf. F. cirement.]
(a) A cerecloth used for the special purpose of enveloping a dead
body when embalmed.
(b) Any shroud or wrapping for the dead.

CEREMONIAL
Cer`e*mo"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. caerimonialis: cf. F. cérimonial. See
Ceremony.]

1. Relating to ceremony, or external rite; ritual; according to the
forms of established rites.
Ceremonial observances and outward show. Hallam.

2. Observant of forms; ceremonious.

Note: [In this sense ceremonious is now preferred.] Donne.
He moves in the dull ceremonial track. Druden.

CEREMONIAL
Cer`e*mo"ni*al, n.

1. A system of rules and ceremonies, enjoined by law, or established
by custom, in religious worship, social intercourse, or the courts of
princes; outward form.
The gorgeous ceremonial of the Burgundian court. Prescott.

2. The order for rites and forms in the Roman Catholic church, or the
book containing the rules presribed to be observed on solemn
occasions.

CEREMONIALISM
Cer`e*mo"ni*al*ism, n.

Defn: Adherence to external rites; fondness for ceremony.

CEREMONIALLY
Cer`e*mo"ni*al*ly, adv.

Defn: According to rites and ceremonies; as, a person ceremonially
unclean.

CEREMONIALNESS
Cer`e*mo"ni*al*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being ceremonial.

CEREMONIOUS
Cer`e*mo"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cérémonieux, L. Caerimoniosus.]

1. Consisting of outward forms and rites; ceremonial.

Note: [In this sense ceremonial is now preferred.]
The ceremonious part of His worship. South.

2. According to prescribed or customary rules and forms; devoted to
forms and ceremonies; formally respectful; punctilious. "Ceremonious
phrases." Addison.
Too ceremonious and traditional. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Formal; precise; exact. See Formal.

CEREMONIOUSLY
Cer`e*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a ceremonious way.

CEREMONIOUSNESS
Cer`e*mo"ni*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality, or practice, of being ceremonious.

CEREMONY
Cer"e*mo*ny, n.; pl. Ceremonies. Etym: [F. cérémonie, L. caerimonia;
perh. akin to E. create and from a root signifying to do or make.]

1. Ar act or series of acts, often of a symbolical character,
prescribed by law, custom, or authority, in the conduct of important
matters, as in the performance of religious duties, the transaction
of affairs of state, and the celebration of notable events; as, the
ceremony of crowning a sovereign; the ceremonies observed in
consecrating a church; marriage and baptismal ceremonies.
According to all the rites of it, and according to all the ceremonies
thereof shall ye keep it [the Passover]. Numb. ix. 3
Bring her up the high altar, that she may The sacred ceremonies there
partake. Spenser.
[The heralds] with awful ceremony And trumpet's sound, throughout the
host proclaim A solemn council. Milton.

2. Behavior regulated by strict etiquette; a formal method of
performing acts of civility; forms of civility prescribed by custom
or authority.
Ceremony was but devised at first To set a gloss on . . . hollow
welcomes . . . But where there is true friendship there needs none.
Shak.
Al ceremonies are in themselves very silly things; but yet a man of
the world should know them. Chesterfield.

3. A ceremonial symbols; an emblem, as a crown, scepter, garland,
etc. [Obs.]
Disrobe the images, If you find them decked with ceremonies. . . .
Let no images Be hung with Cæsar's trophies. Shak.

4. A sign or prodigy; a portent. [Obs.]
Cæsar, I never stood on ceremonies, Yet, now they fright me. Shak.
Master of ceremonies, an officer who determines the forms to be
observed, or superintends their observance, on a public occasion.
 -- Not to stand on ceremony, not to be ceremonious; to be familiar,
outspoken, or bold.

CEREOUS
Ce"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. cereus, fr. cera was.]

Defn: Waxen; like wax. [Obs.] Gayton.

CERES
Ce"res, n. Etym: [L., Ceres, also corn, grain, akin to E. create.]

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The daughter of Saturn and Ops or Rhea, the goddess of corn and
tillage.

2. (Actron.)

Defn: The first discovered asteroid.

CERESIN
Cer"e*sin, n. Etym: [L. cera wax.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white wax, made by bleaching and purifying ozocerite, and
used as a substitute for beeswax.

CEREUS
Ce"re*us, n. Etym: [L., a wax candle, fr. cera wax. So named from the
resemblance of one species to the columnar shape of a wax candle.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the Cactus family. They are natives of
America, from California to Chili.

Note: Although several species flower in the night, the name Night-
blooming cereus is specially applied to the Cereus grandiflorus,
which is cultivated for its beautiful, shortlived flowers. The Cereus
giganteus, whose columnar trunk is sometimes sixty feet in height, is
a striking feature of the scenery of New Mexico, Texas, etc.

CEREVIS
Cer"e*vis (ser"e*vis; G. tser`e*ves"), n. [G., fr. L. cerevisia,
cervisia, beer.]

Defn: A small visorless cap, worn by members of German student corps.
It is made in the corps colors, and usually bears the insignia of the
corps.

CERIA
Ce"ri*a (se"ri*a), n. (Chem.)

Defn: Cerium oxide, CeO2, a white infusible substance constituting
about one per cent of the material of the common incandescent mantle.

CERIAL
Cer"i*al, a.

Defn: Same as Cerial. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CERIFEROUS
Ce*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. ra wax + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing wax.

CERIN
Ce"rin, n. Etym: [L. cera wax + -in: cf. L. cerinus wax-colored.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A waxy substance extracted by alcohol or ether from cork;
sometimes applied also to the portion of beeswax which is soluble in
alcohol. Watts.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of the mineral allanite.

CERINTHIAN
Ce*rin"thi*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of an ancient religious sect, so called fron Cerinthus, a
Jew, who attempted to unite the doctrines of Christ with the opinions
of the Jews and Gnostics. Hook.

CERIPH
Cer"iph, n. (Type Founding)

Defn: One of the fine lines of a letter, esp. one of the fine cross
strokes at the top and bottom of letters. [Spelt also seriph.]
Savage.

CERISE
Ce*rise", a. Etym: [F., a cherry. See Cherry.]

Defn: Cherry-colored; a light bright red; --- applied to textile
fabrics, especially silk.

CERITE
Ce"rite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gastropod shell belonging to the family Cerithiïdæ; -- so
called from its hornlike form.

CERITE
Ce"rite, n. Etym: [From Cherium.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a brownish of cherry-red color, commonly massive.
It is a hydrous silicate of cerium and allied metals.

CERIUM
Ce"ri*um, n. Etym: [Named dy Berzelius in 1803 from the asteroid
Ceres, then just discovered (1801).] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare metallic element, occurring in the minerals cerite,
allanite, monazite, etc. Symbol Ce. Atomic weight 141.5. It resembles
iron in color and luster, but is soft, and both malleable and
ductile. It tarnishes readily in the air.

CERNUOUS
Cer"nu*ous, a. Etym: [L. cernuus with the face turned toward the
earth.] (Bot.)

Defn: Inclining or nodding downward; pendulous; drooping; -- said of
a bud, flower, fruit, or the capsule of a moss.

CERO
Ce"ro, n. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. Sp. sierra saw, sawfish, cero.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large and valuable fish of the Mackerel family, of the genus
Scomberomorus. Two species are found in the West Indies and less
commonly on the Atlantic coast of the United States, -- the common
cero (Scomberomorus caballa), called also kingfish, and spotted, or
king, cero (S. regalis).

CEROGRAPH
Ce"ro*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. khros wax + -graph.]

Defn: A writing on wax. Knight.

CEROGRAPHIC; CEROGRAPHICAL
Ce`ro*graph"ic, Ce`ro*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cerography.

CEROGRAPHIST
Ce*rog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: One who practices cerography.

CEROGRAPHY
Ce*rog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

1. The art of making characters or designs in, or with, wax.

2. A method of making stereotype plates from inscribed sheets of wax.

CEROLITE
Cer"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. * wax + -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous silicate of magnesium, allied to serpentine,
occurring in waxlike masses of a yellow or greenish color.

CEROMA
Ce*ro"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. The unguent (a composition of oil and wax) with which wrestles
were anointed among the ancient Romans.

2. (Anc. Arch.)

Defn: That part of the baths and gymnasia in which bathers and
wrestlers anointed themselves.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cere of birds.

CEROMANCY
Cer"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by dropping melted wax in water.

CEROON
Ce*roon", n. Etym: [See Seroon.]

Defn: A bale or package. covered with hide, or with wood bound with
hide; as, a ceroon of indigo, cochineal, etc.

CEROPLASTIC
Ce`ro*plas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Fine arts)
(a) Relating to the art of modeling in wax.
(b) Modeled in wax; as, a ceroplastic figure.

CEROPLASTICS; CEROPLASTY
Ce`ro*plas"tics, Ce`ro*plas"ty, n. Etym: [Gr. céroplastique.]

Defn: The art of modeling in wax.

CEROSIN
Cer"o*sin, n. Etym: [L. cera wax.] (Chem.)

Defn: A waxy substance obtained from the bark of the sugar cane, and
crystallizing in delicate white laminæ.

CEROTE
Ce"rote, n. Etym: [Obs.]

Defn: See Cerate.

CEROTENE
Cer"o*tene, n. Etym: [L. cerotum a pomade. See Cerate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white waxy solid obtained from Chinese wax, and by the
distillation of cerotin.

CEROTIC
Ce*rot"ic, a. Etym: [See Cerotene.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax or Chinese wax; as,
cerotic acid or alcohol.

CEROTIN
Cer"o*tin, n. Etym: [See Cerotene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance, C27H55.OH, obtained from Chinese
wax, and regarded as an alcohol of the marsh gas series; -- called
also cerotic alcohol, ceryl alcohol.

CEROTYPE
Ce"ro*type`, n. [Gr.  wax + -type.]

Defn: A printing process of engraving on a surface of wax spread on a
steel plate, for electrotyping.

CERRIAL
Cer"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. cerreus, fr. cerrus a kind of oak.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cerris.
Chaplets green of cerrial oak. Dryden.

CERRIS
Cer"ris, n. Etym: [L. cerrus.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of oak (Quercus cerris) native in the Orient and
southern Europe; -- called also bitter oak and Turkey oak.

CERTAIN
Cer"tain, a. Etym: [F. certain, fr. (assumed) LL. certanus, fr. L.
certus determined, fixed, certain, orig. p. p. of cernere to
perceive, decide, determine; akin to Gr. concern, critic, crime,
riddle a sieve, rinse, v.]

1. Assured in mind; having no doubts; free from suspicions
concerning.
To make her certain of the sad event. Dryden.
I myself am certain of you. Wyclif.

2. Determined; resolved; -- used with an infinitive.
However, I with thee have fixed my lot, Certain to undergo like doom.
Milton.

3. Not to be doubted or denied; established as a fact.
The dream is certain, and the interpretation thereof sure. Dan. ii.
45.

4. Actually existing; sure to happen; inevitable.
Virtue that directs our ways Through certain dangers to uncertain
praise. Dryden.
Death, as the Psalmist saith, is certain to all. Shak.

5. Unfailing; infallible.
I have often wished that I knew as certain a remedy for any other
distemper. Mead.

6. Fixed or stated; regular; determinate.
The people go out and gather a certain rate every day. Ex. xvi. 4.

7. Not specifically named; indeterminate; indefinite; one or some; --
sometimes used independenty as a noun, and meaning certain persons.
It came to pass when he was in a certain city. Luke. v. 12.
About everything he wrote there was a certain natural grace und
decorum. Macaulay.
For certain, assuredly.
 -- Of a certain, certainly.

Syn.
 -- Bound; sure; true; undeniable; unquestionable; undoubted; plain;
indubitable; indisputable; incontrovertible; unhesitating;
undoubting; fixed; stated.

CERTAIN
Cer"tain, n.

1. Certainty. [Obs.] Gower.

2. A certain number or quantity. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CERTAIN
Cer"tain, adv.

Defn: Certainly. [Obs.] Milton.

CERTAINLY
Cer"tain*ly, adv.

Defn: Without doubt or question; unquestionably.

CERTAINNESS
Cer"tain*ness, n.

Defn: Certainty.

CERTAINTY
Cer"tain*ty, n.; pl. Certainties. Etym: [OF. certaineté.]

1. The quality, state, or condition, of being certain.
The certainty of punishment is the truest security against crimes.
Fisher Ames.

2. A fact or truth unquestionable established.
Certainties are uninteresting and sating. Landor.

3. (Law)

Defn: Clearness; freedom from ambiguity; lucidity. Of a certainty,
certainly.

CERTES
Cer"tes, adv. Etym: [F. certes, for à certes, fr. L. certus. See
Certain.]

Defn: Certainly; in truth; verily. [Archaic]
Certes it great pity was to see Him his nobility so foul deface.
Spenser.

CERTIFICATE
Cer*tif"i*cate, n. Etym: [F. certificat, fr. LL. certificatus made
certain, p. p. of certificare. See tify.]

1. A written testimony to the truth of any fact; as, certificate of
good behavior.

2. A written declaration legally authenticated. Trial by certificate,
a trial which the testimony of the person certifying is the only
proper criterion of the point in dispute; as, when the issue is
whether a person was absent in the army, this is tried by the
certificate of the proper officer in writing, under his seal.
Blackstone.

CERTIFICATE
Cer*tif"i*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Certificated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Certificating.] Etym: [See Certify.]

1. To verify or vouch for by certificate.

2. To furnish with a certificate; as, to certificate the captain of a
vessel; a certificated teacher.

CERTIFICATION
Cer`ti*fi*ca"tion, n.Etym: [L. certificatio: cf. F. certification.]

Defn: The act of certifying.

CERTIFIER
Cer"ti*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who certifies or assures.

CERTIFY
Cer"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Certified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Certifying.] Etym: [F. certifier, LL. certificare; L. certus certain
+ facere to make. See Certain, and cf. Certificate, v. t.]

1. To give cetain information to; to assure; to make certain.
We certify the king, that . . . thou shalt have no portion on this
side the river. Ezra iv. 16.

2. To give certain information of; to make certain, as a fact; to
verify. Hammond.
The industry of science at once certifies and greatly extends our
knowledge of the vastness of the creation. I. Taylor.

3. To testify to in writing; to make a declaration concerning, in
writing, under hand, or hand and seal.
The judges shall certify their opinion to the chancellor, and upon
such certificate the decree is usually founded. Blackstone.
Certified check, A bank check, the validity of which is certified by
the bank on which it is drawn.

CERTIORARI
Cer`ti*o*ra"ri, n. Etym: [So named from the emphatic word certiorari
in the Latin form of the writ, which read certiorar volumus we wish
to be certified.] (Law)

Defn: A writ issuing out of chancery, or a superior court, to call up
the records of a inferior court, or remove a cause there depending,
in order that the party may have more sure and speedy justice, or
that errors and irreguarities may be corrected. It is obtained upon
complaint of a party that he has not received justice, or can not
have an impartial trial in the inferior court.

Note: A certiorari is the correct process to remove the proceedings
of a court in which cases are tried in a manner different from the
course of the common law, as of county commissioners. It is also used
as an auxiliary process in order to obtain a full return to some
other process. Bouvier.

CERTITUDE
Cer"ti*tude, n. Etym: [LL. certitudo, fr. L. certus: cf. F.
certitude. See Certain.]

Defn: Freedom from doubt; assurance; certainty. J. H. Newman.

CERULE
Cer"ule, a. Etym: [L. caerulus, eguiv. to caeruleus.]

Defn: Blue; cerulean. [Obs.] Dyer.

CERULEAN
Ce*ru"le*an, a. Etym: [L. caeruleus.]

Defn: Sky-colored; blue; azure. Cowper.
Blue, blue, as if that sky let fall
A flower from its cerulean wall. Bryant.

CERULEIN
Ce*ru"le*in, n. [L. caeruleus sky-blue.] (Chem.)

Defn: A fast dyestuff, C20H8O6, made by heating gallein with strong
sulphuric acid. It dyes mordanted fabrics green.

CERULEOUS
Ce*ru"le*ous, a.

Defn: Cerulean. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

CERULESCENT
Ce`ru*les"cent, a. [L. caeruleus sky-blue + -escent.]

Defn: Tending to cerulean; light bluish.

CERULEUM
Ce*ru"le*um, n. [NL.]

Defn: A greenish blue pigment prepared in various ways, consisting
essentially of cobalt stannate. Unlike other cobalt blues, it does
not change color by gaslight.

CERULIFIC
Cer`u*lif"ic, a. Etym: [L.arulus dark blue + facere to make.]

Defn: Producing a blue or sky color. [R.]

CERUMEN
Ce*ru"men, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. cera wax.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The yellow, waxlike secretion from the glands of the external
ear; the earwax.

CERUMINOUS
Ce*ru"mi*nous, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or secreting, cerumen; as, the ceruminous
glands.

CERUSE
Ce"ruse, n. Etym: [F. céruse, L. cerussa.]

1. White lead, used as a pigment. See White lead, under White.

2. A cosmetic containing white lead.
To distinguish ceruse from natural bloom. Macaulay.

3. (Min.)

Defn: The native carbonate of lead.

CERUSED
Ce"rused, a.

Defn: Washed with a preparation of white lead; as, cerused face.
Beau. & Fl.

CERUSITE; CERUSSITE
Ce"ru*site, Ce"rus*site, n. (Min.)

Defn: Native lead carbonate; a mineral occurring in colorless, white,
or yellowish transparent crystals, with an adamantine, also massive
and compact.

CERVANTITE
Cer"van*tite, n. Etym: [Named from Cervantes a town in Spain.] (Min.)

Defn: See under Antimony.

CERVELAT
Cer"ve*lat, n. Etym: [F.] (Mus.)

Defn: An ancient wind instrument, resembling the bassoon in tone.

CERVICAL
Cer"vi*cal, a. Etym: [L. cervix, -icis, neck: cf. F. cervical.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the neck; as, the cervical vertebræ.

CERVICIDE
Cer"vi*cide, n. Etym: [L. cervus deer + caedere to kill.]

Defn: The act of killing deer; deer-slaying. [R.]

CERVINE
Cer"vine, a. Etym: [L. cervinus, fr. cervus deer: cf. F. cervin.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the deer, or to the family Cervidæ.

CERVIX
Cer"vix, n.; pl. E. Cervixes, L. Cervices. Etym: [L.] (Anat.)

Defn: The neck; also, the necklike portion of any part, as of the
womb. See Illust. of Bird.

CERVUS
Cer"vus, n. Etym: [L., a deer.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ruminants, including the red deer and other allied
species.

Note: Formerly all species of deer were included in the genus Cervus.

CERYL
Ce"ryl, n. Etym: [L. cera wax + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A radical, C27H55 supposed to exist in several compounds
obtained from Chinese wax, beeswax, etc.

CESAREAN; CESARIAN
Ce*sa"re*an, Ce*sa"ri*an, a.

Defn: Same as Cæsarean, Cæsarian.

CESARISM
Ce"sar*ism, n.

Defn: See Cæsarism.

CESPITINE
Ces"pi*tine, n. Etym: [L. caespes, caespitis, a turf.]

Defn: An oil obtained by distillation of peat, and containing various
members of the pyridine series.

CESPITITIOUS
Ces"pi*ti`tious, a. Etym: [L. caespiticius, fr. caespes turf.]

Defn: Same as Cespitious. [R.] Gough.

CESPITOSE
Ces"pi*tose`, a. Etym: [L. caespes turf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form a piece of turf, i. e., many stems from one
rootstock or from many entangled rootstocks or roots. [Written also
cæspitose.]

CESPITOUS
Ces"pi*tous, a. Etym: [See Cespitose.]

Defn: Pertaining to, consisting, of resembling, turf; turfy.
A cespitous or turfy plant has many stems from the same root, usually
forming a close, thick carpet of matting. Martyn.

CESS
Cess, n. Etym: [For sess, conts. from Assess.]

1. A rate or tax. [Obs. or Prof. Eng. & Scot.] Spenser.

2. Bound; measure. [Obs.]
The poor jade is wrung in the withers out of all cess. Shak.

CESS
Cess, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cessed; p. pr. & vb. n. Cessing.]

Defn: To rate; to tax; to assess. Spenser.

CESS
Cess, v. i. Etym: [F. cesser. See Cease.]

Defn: To cease; to neglect. [Obs.] Spenser.

CESSANT
Ces"sant a. Etym: [L. cessans, p. pr. of cessare. See Cease.]

Defn: Inactive; dormant [Obs.] W. Montagu.

CESSATION
Ces*sa"tion, n. Etym: [F. cessation, L. cessatio, fr. cessare. See
Cease.]

Defn: A ceasing of discontinuance, as of action, whether termporary
or final; a stop; as, a cessation of the war.
The temporary cessation of the papal iniquities. Motley.
The day was yearly observed for a festival by cessation from labor.
Sir J. Hayward.
Cessation of arms (Mil.), an armistice, or truce, agreed to by the
commanders of armies, to give time for a capitulation, or for other
purposes.

Syn.
 -- Stop; rest; stay; pause; discontinuance; intermission; interval;
respite; interruption; recess; remission.

CESSAVIT
Ces*sa"vit, n. Etym: [L., he has ceased.] [O. Eng. Law]

Defn: A writ given by statute to recover lands when the tenant has
for two years failed to perform the conditions of his tenure.

CESSER
Ces"ser, n. Etym: [From Cess, v. i.] (Law)

Defn: a neglect of a tenant to perform services, or make payment, for
two years.

CESSIBLE
Ces"si*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cessible. See Cession.]

Defn: Giving way; yielding. [Obs.] -- Ces`si*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.] Sir
K. Digby.

CESSION
Ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. cessio, fr. cedere to give way: cf. F.
Cession. See Cede.]

1. A yielding to physical force. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. Concession; compliance. [Obs.]

3. A yielding, or surrender, as of property or rights, to another
person; the act of ceding.
A cession of the island of New Orleans. Bancroft.

4. (Eccl. Law)

Defn: The giving up or vacating a benefice by accepting another
without a proper dispensation.

5. (Civil Law)

Defn: The voluntary surrender of a person's effects to his creditors
to avoid imprisonment.

CESSIONARY
Ces"sion*a*ry, a. Etym: [LL. cessionarius, from cessionare to cede,
fr. L. cessio: cf. F. cessionnaire. See Cession.]

Defn: Having surrendered the effects; as, a cessionary bankrupt.
Martin.

CESSMENT
Cess"ment, n. Etym: [From Cess, v. t.]

Defn: An assessment or tax. [Obs.] Johnson.

CESSOR
Ces"sor, n. Etym: [From Cess, v. i. Cf. Cesser.] (Law)

Defn: One who neglects, for two years, to perform the service by
which he holds lands, so that he incurs the danger of the writ of
cessavit. See Cessavit. Cowell.

CESSOR
Ces"sor, n. Etym: [From Cess, v. t.]

Defn: An assessor. [Obs.]

CESSPIPE
Cess`pipe", n.

Defn: A pipe for carrying off waste water, etc., from a sink or
cesspool. Knight.

CESSPOOL
Cess"pool`, n. Etym: [See Sesspol.]

Defn: A cistern in the course, or the termination, of a drain, to
collect sedimentary or superfluous matter; a privy vault; any
receptace of filth. [Written also sesspool.]

CEST
Cest, n. Etym: [L. cestus: cf. OF. ceste.]

Defn: A woman's girdle; a cestus. [R.] Collins.

CESTODE
Ces"tode, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Cestoidea.

CESTOID
Ces"toid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Cestoidea.

CESTOIDEA
Ces*toid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., gr. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of parasitic worms (Platelminthes) of which the
tapeworms are the most common examples. The body is flattened, and
usually but not always long, and composed of numerous joints or
segments, each of which may contain a complete set of male and female
reproductive organs. They have neither mouth nor intestine. See
Tapeworm. [Written also Cestoda.]

CESTOLDEAN
Ces*told"e*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cestoidea.

CESTRACIONT
Ces*tra"ci*ont, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A shark of the genus Cestracion, and of related genera. The
posterior teeth form a pavement of bony plates for crushing
shellfish. Most of the species are extinct. The Port Jackson shark
and a similar one found in California are living examples.

CESTRACIONT
Ces*tra"ci*ont, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the genus Cestracion.

CESTUS
Ces"tus, n. Etym: [L. cestus girdle, Gr.

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: A girdle; particularly that of Aphrodite (or Venus) which gave
the wearer the power of exciting love.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Ctenophora. The typical species (Cestus Veneris) is
remarkable for its brilliant iridescent colors, and its long,
girdlelike form.

CESTUS
Ces"tus, n. Etym: [L. caestus, and cestus.] (Antiq.)

Defn: A covering for the hands of boxers, made of leather bands, and
often loaded with lead or iron.

CESTUY; CESTUI
Ces"tuy or Ces"tui, pron. Etym: [Norm. F.] (Law)

Defn: He; the one. Cestuy que trust ( Etym: [norm. F.], a person who
has the equitable and beneficial interest in property, the legal
interest in which is vested in a trustee. Wharton.
 -- Cestuy que use ( Etym: [Norm. F.], a person for whose use land,
etc., is granted to another.

CESURA
Ce*su"ra, n.

Defn: See Cæsura.

CESURAL
Ce*su"ral, a.

Defn: See Cæsural.

CETACEA
Ce*ta"ce*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. cetus whale, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of marine mammals, including the whales. Like ordinary
mammals they breathe by means of lungs, and bring forth living young
which they suckle for some time. The anterior limbs are changed to
paddles; the tail flukes are horizontal. There are two living
suborders: (a) The Mysticete or whalebone whales, having no true
teeth after birth, but with a series of plates of whalebone [see
Baleen.] hanging down from the upper jaw on each side, thus making a
strainer, through which they receive the small animals upon which
they feed. (b) The Denticete, including the dolphins and sperm whale,
which have teeth. Another suborder (Zeuglodontia) is extinct. The
Sirenia were formerly included in the Cetacea, but are now made a
separate order.

CETACEAN
Ce*ta"cean, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cetacea.

CETACEOUS
Ce*ta"ceous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cetacea.

CETE
Ce"te, n. Etym: [L., pl.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cetacea, or collectively, the Cetacea.

CETENE
Ce"tene, n. Etym: [See Cete.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oily hydrocarbon, C16H32, of the ethylene series, obtained
from spermaceti.

CETERACH
Cet"e*rach, n. Etym: [F. cétérac, fr. Ar. shetrak.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of fern with fronds (Asplenium Ceterach).

CETEWALE
Cet"e*wale, n. Etym: [OF. citoal, F. zedoaire. See Zedoary.]

Defn: Same as Zedoary. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CETIC
Ce"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a whale.

CETIN
Ce"tin, n. Etym: [L. cetus whale.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, waxy substance, forming the essential part of
spermaceti.

CETOLOGICAL
Ce`to*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cetology.

CETOLOGIST
Ce*tol"o*gist, a.

Defn: One versed in cetology.

CETOLOGY
Ce*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. cétologie.]

Defn: The description or natural history of cetaceous animals.

CETRARIC
Ce*trar"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the lichen, Iceland moss
(Cetaria Islandica). Cetraric acid. See Cetrarin.

CETRARIN
Cet"ra*rin, n. Etym: [From Cetraria Islandica, the scientific name of
Iceland moss.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white substance extracted from the lichen, Iceland moss
(Cetraria Islandica). It consists of several ingredients, among which
is cetraric acid, a white, crystalline, bitter substance.

CETYL
Ce"tyl, n. Etym: [Gr. -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A radical, C16H33, not yet isolated, but supposed to exist in a
series of compounds homologous with the ethyl compounds, and derived
from spermaceti.

CETYLIC
Ce*tyl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, spermaceti. Cetylic alcohol
(Chem.), a white, waxy, crystalline solid, obtained from spermaceti,
and regarded as homologous with ordinary, or ethyl, alcohol; ethal; -
- called also cetyl alcohol.

CEYLANITE
Cey"lan*ite, n. Etym: [F., fr. Ceylan Ceylon.] (Min.)

Defn: A dingy blue, or grayish black, variety of spinel. It is also
called pleonaste. [Written also ceylonite.]

CEYLONESE
Cey`lon*ese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Ceylon.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Ceylon.

C.G.S.
C.G.S.

Defn: An abbreviation for Centimeter, Gram, Second.
 -- applied to a system of units much empoyed in physical science,
based upon the centimeter as the unit of length, the gram as the unit
of weight or mass, and the second as the unit of time.

C. G. S.
C. G. S.

Defn: An abbreviation for Centimeter, Gram, Second. -- applied to a
system of units much employed in physical science, based upon the
centimeter as the unit of length, the gram as the unit of weight or
mass, and the second as the unit of time.

C. G. T.
C. G. T.

Defn:  An abbreviation for Confédération Générale du Travail (the
French syndicalist labor union).

CHA
Cha (chä), n. [Chin. ch"a.] [Also chaa, chais, tsia, etc.]

Defn: Tea; -- the Chinese (Mandarin) name, used generally in early
works of travel, and now for a kind of rolled tea used in Central
Asia.

A pot with hot water . . . made with the powder of a certain herb
called chaa, which is much esteemed.
Tr. J. Van Linschoten's Voyages (1598).

CHAB
Chab, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The red-bellied wood pecker (Melanerpes Carolinus).

CHABASITE; CABAZITE
Chab"a*site, Cab"a*zite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occuring in glassy rhombohedral crystals, varying, in
color from white to yellow or red. It is essentially a hydrous
silicate of alumina and lime. Called also chabasie.

CHABLIS
Cha*blis", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A white wine made near Chablis, a town in France.

CHABOUK; CHABUK
Cha*bouk", Cha*buk", n. Etym: [Hind. chabuk horsewhip.]

Defn: A long whip, such as is used in the East in the infliction of
punishment. Balfour.

CHACE
Chace, n.

Defn: See 3d Chase, n., 3.

CHACE
Chace, v. t.

Defn: To pursue. See Chase v. t.

CHACHALACA
Cha`cha*la"ca, n. Etym: [Native name, prob. given in imitation of its
cry.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The texan guan (Ortalis vetula). [written also chiacalaca.]

CHACMA
Chac"ma, n. Etym: [Native name.]

Defn: A large species of African baboon (Cynocephalus porcarius); --
called also ursine baboon.

Note: [See Illust. of Baboon.]

CHACONNE
Cha*conne", n. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. chacona.] (Mus.)

Defn: An old Spanish dance in moderate three-four measure, like the
Passacaglia, which is slower. Both are used by classical composers as
themes for variations.

CHAD
Chad, n.

Defn: See Shad. [Obs.]

CHAETETES
Chæ*te"tes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fossil corals, common in the lower Silurian
limestones.

CHAETIFEROUS
Chæ*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. -ferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Bearing setæ.

CHAETODONT
Chæ"to*dont, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine fish of the family Chætodontidæ. The chætodonts have
broad, compressed bodies, and usually bright colors.

CHAETODONT
Chæto*dont, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Chætodonts or the family Chætodontidæ.

CHAETOGNATH
Chæ"tog*nath, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Chætognatha.

CHAETOGNATHA
Chæ*tog"na*tha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl)

Defn: An order of free-swimming marine worms, of which the genus
Sagitta is the type. They have groups of curved spines on each side
of the head.

CHAETOPOD
Chæ"to*pod, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Chætopoda.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Chætopoda.

CHAETOPODA
Chæ*top"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very extensive order of Annelida, characterized by the
presence of lateral setæ, or spines, on most or all of the segments.
They are divided into two principal groups: Oligochæta, including the
earthworms and allied forms, and Polychæta, including most of the
marine species.

CHAETOTAXY
Chæ"to*tax`y, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The arrangement of bristles on an insect.

CHAFE
Chafe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chafed; p pr. & vb. n. Chafing.] Etym:
[OE. chaufen to warm, OF. chaufer, F. chauffer, fr. L. calefacere,
calfacere, to make warm; calere to be warm + facere to make. See
Caldron.]

1. To ecxite heat in by friction; to rub in order to stimulate and
make warm.
To rub her temples, and to chafe her skin. Spenser.

2. To excite passion or anger in; to fret; to irritate.
Her intercession chafed him. Shak.

3. To fret and wear by rubbing; as, to chafe a cable.
Two slips of parchment which she sewed round it to prevent its being
chafed. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- To rub; fret; gall; vex; excite; inflame.

CHAFE
Chafe, v. i.

Defn: To rub; to come together so as to wear by rubbing; to wear by
friction.
Made its great boughs chafe together. Longfellow.
The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores. Shak.

2. To be worn by rubbing; as, a cable chafes.

3. To have a feeling of vexation; to be vexed; to fret; to be
irritated. Spenser.
He will chafe at the doctor's marrying my daughter. Shak.

CHAFE
Chafe, n.

1. Heat excited by friction.

2. Injury or wear caused by friction.

3. Vexation; irritation of mind; rage.
The cardinal in a chafe sent for him to Whitehall. Camden.

CHAFER
Chaf"er, n.

1. One who chafes.

2. A vessel for heating water; -- hence, a dish or pan.
A chafer of water to cool the ends of the irons. Baker.

CHAFER
Chaf"er, n. Etym: [AS. ceafor; akin to D. kever, G këfer.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of beetle; the cockchafer. The name is also applied to
other species; as, the rose chafer.

CHAFERY
Chaf"er*y, n. Etym: [See Chafe, v. t.] (Iron Works)

Defn: An open furnace or forge, in which blooms are heated before
being wrought into bars.

CHAFEWAX; CHAFFWAX
Chafe"wax`, or Chaff"wax`, n. (Eng. Law)

Defn: Formerly a chancery officer who fitted wax for sealing writs
and other documents.

CHAFEWEED
Chafe"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The cudweed (Gnaphalium), used to prevent or cure chafing.

CHAFF
Chaff, n. Etym: [AC. ceaf; akin to D. kaf, G. kaff.]

1. The glumes or husks of grains and grasses separated from the seed
by threshing and winnowing, etc.
So take the corn and leave the chaff behind. Dryden.
Old birds are not caught with caff. Old Proverb.

2. Anything of a comparatively light and worthless character; the
refuse part of anything.
The chaff and ruin of the times. Shak.

3. Straw or hay cut up fine for the food of cattle.
By adding chaff to his corn, the horse must take more time to eat it.
In this way chaff is very useful. Ywatt.

4. Light jesting talk; banter; raillery.

5. (Bot.)

Defn: The scales or bracts on the receptacle, which subtend each
flower in the heads of many Compositæ, as the sunflower. Gray. Chaff
cutter, a machine for cutting, up straw, etc., into "chaff" for the
use of cattle.

CHAFF
Chaff, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chaffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Chaffing.]

Defn: To use light, idle lagnguage by way of fun or ridicule; to
banter.

CHAFF
Chaff, v. t.

Defn: To make fun of; to turn into ridicule by addressing in ironical
or bantering language; to quiz.
Morgan saw that his master was chaffing him. Thackeray.
A dozen honest fellows . . . chaffed each other about their
sweethearts. C. Kingsley.

CHAFFER
Chaff"er, n.

Defn: One who chaffs.

CHAFFER
Chaf"fer, n. Etym: [OE. chaffare, cheapfare; AS. ceáp a bargain,
price + faru a journey; hence, originally, a going to barain, to
market. See Cheap, and Fare.]

Defn: Bargaining; merchandise. [Obs.] Holished.

CHAFFER
Chaf"fer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chaffered; p. pr. & vb. n. Chaffering.]
Etym: [OE. chaffaren, fr. chaffare, chapfare, cheapfare, a
bargaining. See Chaffer, n.]

1. To treat or dispute about a purchase; to bargain; to haggle or
higgle; to negotiate.
To chaffer for preferments with his gold. Dryden.

2. To talk much and idly; to chatter. Trench.

CHAFFER
Chaf"fer, v. t.

1. To buy or sell; to trade in.
He chaffered chairs in which churchmen were set. Spenser.

2. To exchange; to bandy, as words. Spenser.

CHAFFERER
Chaf"fer*er, n.

Defn: One who chaffers; a bargainer.

CHAFFERN
Chaf"fern, n. Etym: [See Chafe, v. t.]

Defn: A vessel for heating water. [Obs.] Johnson.

CHAFFERY
Chaf"fer*y, n.

Defn: Traffic; bargaining. [Obs.] Spenser.

CHAFFINCH
Chaf"finch, n. Etym: [Cf. Chiff-chaff.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of Europe (Fringilla coelebs), having a variety of very
sweet songs, and highly valued as a cage bird; -- called also copper
finch.

CHAFFING
Chaff"ing, n.

Defn: The use of light, frivolous language by way of fun or ridicule;
raillery; banter.

CHAFFLESS
Chaff"less, a.

Defn: Without chaff.

CHAFFY
Chaff"y, a.

1. Abounding in, or resembling, chaff.
Chaffy grain beneath the thresher's flail. Coleridge.

2. Light or worthless as chaff.
Slight and chaffy opinion. Glanvill.

3. (Bot.)
(a) Resembling chaff; composed of light dry scales.
(b) Bearing or covered with dry scales, as the under surface of
certain ferns, or the disk of some composite flowers.

CHAFING
Chaf"ing, n. Etym: [See Chafe, v. t.]

Defn: The act of rubbing, or wearing by friction; making by rubbing.
Chafing dish, a dish or vessel for cooking on the table, or for
keeping food warm, either by coals, by a lamp, or by hot water; a
portable grate for coals.
 -- Chafing gear (Naut.), any material used to protect sails,
rigging, or the like, at points where they are exposed to friction.

CHAGREEN
Cha*green", n.

Defn: See Shagreen.

CHAGRES FEVER
Cha"gres fe"ver. (Med.)

Defn: A form of malarial fever occurring along the Chagres River,
Panama.

CHAGRIN
Cha*grin", n. Etym: [F., fr. chagrin shagreen, a particular kind of
rough and grained leather; also a rough fishskin used for graters and
files; hence (Fig.), a gnawing, corroding grief. See Shagreen.]

Defn: Vexation; mortification.
I must own that I felt rather vexation and chagrin than hope and
satisfaction. Richard Porson.
Hear me, and touch Belinda with chagrin. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Vexation; mortification; peevishness; fretfulness; disgust;
disquiet. Chagrin, Vexation, Mortification. These words agree in the
general sense of pain produced by untoward circumstances. Vexation is
a feeling of disquietude or irritating uneasiness from numerous
causes, such as losses, disappointments, etc. Mortification is a
stronger word, and denotes that keen sense of pain which results fron
wounded pride or humiliating occurrences. Chagrin is literally the
cutting pain produced by the friction of Shagreen leather; in its
figurative sense, it varies in meaning, denoting in its lower degrees
simply a state of vexation, and its higher degrees the keenest sense
of mortification. "Vexation arises chiefly fron our wishes and views
being crossed: mortification, from our self-importance being hurt;
chagrin, from a mixture of the two." Crabb.

CHAGRIN
Cha*grin", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chagrined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chargrining.] Etym: [Cf. F. chagriner See Chagrin, n.]

Defn: To excite ill-humor in; to vex; to mortify; as, he was not a
little chagrined.

CHAGRIN
Cha*grin", v. i.

Defn: To be vexed or annoyed. Fielding.

CHAGRIN
Cha*grin", a.

Defn: Chagrined. Dryden.

CHAIN
Chain, n. Etym: [F. chaîne, fr. L. catena. Cf. Catenate.]

1. A series of links or rings, usually of metal, connected, or fitted
into one another, used for various purposes, as of support, of
restraint, of ornament, of the exertion and transmission of
mechanical power, etc.
[They] put a chain of gold about his neck. Dan. v. 29.

2. That which confines, fetters, or secures, as a chain; a bond; as,
the chains of habit.
Driven down To chains of darkness and the undying worm. Milton.

3. A series of things linked together; or a series of things
connected and following each other in succession; as, a chain of
mountains; a chain of events or ideas.

4. (Surv.)

Defn: An instrument which consists of links and is used in measuring
land.

Note: One commonly in use is Gunter's chain, which consists of one
hundred links, each link being seven inches and ninety-two one
hundredths in length; making up the total length of rods, or sixty-
six, feet; hence, a measure of that length; hence, also, a unit for
land measure equal to four rods square, or one tenth of an acre.

5. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Iron links bolted to the side of a vessel to bold the dead-eyes
connected with the shrouds; also, the channels.

6. (Weaving)

Defn: The warp threads of a web. Knight. Chain belt (Mach.), a belt
made of a chain; -- used for transmitting power.
 -- Chain boat, a boat fitted up for recovering lost cables, anchors,
etc.
 -- Chain bolt (a) (Naut.) The bolt at the lower end of the chain
plate, which fastens it to the vessel's side. (b) A bolt with a chain
attached for drawing it out of position.
 -- Chain bond. See Chain timber.
 -- Chain bridge, a bridge supported by chain cables; a suspension
bridge.
 -- Chain cable, a cable made of iron links.
 -- Chain coral (Zoöl.), a fossil coral of the genus Halysites,
common in the middle and upper Silurian rocks. The tubular corallites
are united side by side in groups, looking in an end view like links
of a chain. When perfect, the calicles show twelve septa.
 -- Chain coupling. (a) A shackle for uniting lengths of chain, or
connecting a chain with an object. (b) (Railroad) Supplementary
coupling together of cars with a chain.
 -- Chain gang, a gang of convicts chained together.
 -- Chain hook (Naut.), a hook, used for dragging cables about the
deck.
 -- Chain mail, flexible, defensive armor of hammered metal links
wrought into the form of a garment.
 -- Chain molding (Arch.), a form of molding in imitation of a chain,
used in the Normal style.
 -- Chain pier, a pier suspended by chain.
 -- Chain pipe (Naut.), an opening in the deck, lined with iron,
through which the cable is passed into the lockers or tiers.
 -- Chain plate (Shipbuilding), one of the iron plates or bands, on a
vessel's side, to which the standing rigging is fastened.
 -- Chain pulley, a pulley with depressions in the periphery of its
wheel, or projections from it, made to fit the links of a chain.
 -- Chain pumps. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Chain rule (Arith.), a theorem for solving numerical problems by
composition of ratios, or compound proportion, by which, when several
ratios of equality are given, the consequent of each being the same
as the antecedent of the next, the relation between the first
antecedent and the last consequent is discovered.
 -- Chain shot (Mil.), two cannon balls united by a shot chain,
formerly used in naval warfare on account of their destructive effect
on a ship's rigging.
 -- Chain stitch. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Chain timber. (Arch.) See Bond timber, under Bond.
 -- Chain wales. (Naut.) Same as Channels.
 -- Chain wheel. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Closed chain, Open chain (Chem.), terms applied to the chemical
structure of compounds whose rational formulæ are written
respectively in the form of a closed ring (see Benzene nucleus, under
Benzene), or in an open extended form.
 -- Endless chain, a chain whose ends have been united by a link.

CHAIN
Chain, v. t. [imp. p. p. Chained (chand); p. pr. & vb. n. Chaining.]

1. To fasten, bind, or connect with a chain; to fasten or bind
securely, as with a chain; as, to chain a bulldog.
Chained behind the hostile car. Prior.

2. To keep in slavery; to enslave.
And which more blest who chained his country, say Or he whose virtue
sighed to lose a day Pope.

3. To unite closely and strongly.
And in this vow do chain my soul to thine. Shak.

4. (Surveying)

Defn: To measure with the chain.

5. To protect by drawing a chain across, as a harbor.

CHAINLESS
Chain"less, a.

Defn: Having no chain; not restrained or fettered. "The chainless
mind." Byron.

CHAINLET
Chain"let, n.

Defn: A small chain. Sir W. Scott.

CHAIN PUMP
Chain" pump`.

Defn: A pump consisting of an endless chain, running over a drum or
wheel by which it is moved, and dipping below the water to be raised.
The chain has at intervals disks or lifts which fit the tube through
which the ascending part passes and carry the water to the point of
discharge.

CHAIN STITCH
Chain" stitch`.

1. An ornamental stitch like the links of a chain; -- used in
crocheting, sewing, and embroidery.

2. (Machine Sewing)

Defn: A stitch in which the looping of the thread or threads forms a
chain on the under side of the work; the loop stitch, as
distinguished from the lock stitch. See Stitch.

CHAIN TIE
Chain tie. (Arch.)

Defn: A tie consisting of a series of connected iron bars or rods.

CHAIN WHEEL
Chain" wheel`.

1. A chain pulley, or sprocket wheel.

2. An inversion of the chain pump, by which it becomes a motor driven
by water.

CHAINWORK
Chain"work`, n.

Defn: Work looped or linked after the manner of a chain; chain stitch
work.

CHAIR
Chair, n. Etym: [OE. chaiere, chaere, OF. chaiere, chaere, F. chaire
pulpit, fr. L. cathedra chair, armchair, a teacher's or professor's
chair, Gr. sit. See Sit, and cf. Cathedral, chaise.]

1. A movable single seat with a back.

2. An official seat, as of a chief magistrate or a judge, but esp.
that of a professor; hence, the office itself.
The chair of a philosophical school. Whewell.
A chair of philology. M. Arnold.

3. The presiding officer of an assembly; a chairman; as, to address
the chair.

4. A vehicle for one person; either a sedan borne upon poles, or two-
wheeled carriage, drawn by one horse; a gig. Shak.
Think what an equipage thou hast in air, And view with scorn two
pages and a chair. Pope.

5. An iron blok used on railways to support the rails and secure them
to the sleepers. Chair days, days of repose and age.
 -- To put into the chair, to elect as president, or as chairman of a
meeting. Macaulay.
 -- To take the chair, to assume the position of president, or of
chairman of a meeting.

CHAIR
Chair, v. t. [imp. & p. pr. Chaired; p. pr. & vb. n. Chairing.]

1. To place in a chair.

2. To carry publicly in a chair in triumph. [Eng.]

CHAIRMAN
Chair"man, n.; pl. Chairmen (.

1. The presiding officer of a committee, or of a public or private
meeting, or of any organized body.

2. One whose business it is to cary a chair or sedan.
Breaks watchmen's heads and chairmen's glasses. Prior.

CHAIRMANSHIP
Chair"man*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a chairman of a meeting or organized body.

CHAISE
Chaise, n. Etym: [F. chaise seat, or chair, chaise or carriage, for
chaire, from a peculiar Parisian pronunciation. See Chair.]

1. A two-wheeled carriage for two persons, with a calash top, and the
body hung on leather straps, or thoroughbraces. It is usually drawn
by one horse.

2. Loosely,

Defn: a carriage in general. Cowper.

CHAJA
Cha"ja, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The crested screamer of Brazil (Palamedea, or Chauna,
chavaria), so called in imitation of its notes; -- called also
chauna, and faithful kamichi. It is often domesticated and is useful
in guarding other poultry. See Kamichi.

CHAK
Chak, v. i.

Defn: To toss up the head frequently, as a horse to avoid the
restraint of the bridle.

CHALAZA
Cha*la"za, n.; pl. E. Chalazas, L. Chalazæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The place on an ovule, or seed, where its outer coats cohere
with each other and the nucleus.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A spiral band of thickened albuminous substance which exists in
the white of the bird's egg, and serves to maintain the yolk in its
position; the treadle.

CHALAZAL
Cha*la"zal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the chalaza.

CHALAZE
Cha*laze", n.

Defn: Same as Chalaza.

CHALAZIFEROUS
Chal`a*zif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Chalaza + -ferous.]

Defn: Having or bearing chalazas.

CHALAZION
Cha*la"zi*on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A small circumscribed tumor of the eyelid caused by retention
of secretion, and by inflammation of the Melbomian glands.

CHALAZOGAMY
Chal`a*zog"a*my, n.  [Chalaza + -gamy, as in polygamy.] (Bot.)

Defn: A process of fecundation in which the pollen tube penetrates to
the embryosac through the tissue of the chalaza, instead of entering
through the micropyle. It was originally discovered by Treub in
Casuarina, and has since been found to occur regularly in the
families Betulaceæ and Juglandaceæ. Partial chalazogamy is found in
Ulmus, the tube here penetrating the nucleus midway between the
chalaza and micropyle. --Chal`a*zo*gam"ic (#), a.

CHALCANTHITE
Chal*can"thite, n. Etym: [L. chalcanthum a solution of blue vitriol,
Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Native blue vitriol. See Blue vitriol, under Blue.

CHALCEDONIC
Chal"ce*don"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to chalcedony.

CHALCEDONY
Chal*ced"o*ny, n.; pl. Chalcedonies. Etym: [ L. chalcedonius, fr. Gr.
calcédoine, OE. calcidoine, casidoyne. Cf. Cassidony.] (Min.)

Defn: A cryptocrystalline, translucent variety of quartz, having
usually a whitish color, and a luster nearly like wax. [Written also
calcedony.]

Note: When chalcedony is variegated with with spots or figures, or
arranged in differently colored layers, it is called agate; and if by
reason of the thickness, color, and arrangement of the layers it is
suitable for being carved into cameos, it is called onyx. Chrysoprase
is green chalcedony; carnelian, a flesh red, and sard, a brownish red
variety.

CHALCHIHUITL
Chal`chi*huitl, n. (Min.)

Defn: The Mexican name for turquoise. See Turquoise.

CHALCID FLY
Chal"cid fly`. Etym: [From Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a numerous family of hymenopterous insects (Chalcididæ.
Many are gallflies, others are parasitic on insects.

CHALCIDIAN
Chal*cid"i*an, n. Etym: [L. chalcis a lizard, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a tropical family of snakelike lizards (Chalcidæ),
having four small or rudimentary legs.

CHALCOCITE
Chal"co*cite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Native copper sulphide, called also copper glance, and vitreous
copper; a mineral of a black color and metallic luster. [Formerly
written chalcosine.]

CHALCOGRAPHER; CHALCOGRAPHIST
Chal*cog"ra*pher, Chal*cog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: An engraver on copper or brass; hence, an engraver of copper
plates for printing upon paper.

CHALCOGRAPHY
Chal*cog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The act or art of engraving on copper or brass, especially of
engraving for printing.

CHALCOPYRITE
Chal`co*pyr"ite, n. Etym: [Gr. pyrite. So named from its color.]
(Min.)

Defn: Copper pyrites, or yellow copper ore; a common ore of opper,
containing copper, iron, and sulphur. It occurs massive and in
tetragonal crystals of a bright brass yellow color.

CHALDAIC
Chal*da"ic, a. Etym: [L. Chaldaicus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Chaldes.
 -- n.

Defn: The language or dialect of the Chaldeans; Chaldee.

CHALDAISM
Chal"da*ism, n.

Defn: An idiom or peculiarity in the Chaldee dialect.

CHALDEAN
Chal*de"an, a. Etym: [L. Chaldaeus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Chaldea.
 -- n.
(a) A native or inhabitant of Chaldea.
(b) A learned man, esp. an astrologer; -- so called among the Eastern
nations, because astrology and the kindred arts were much cultivated
by the Chaldeans.
(c) Nestorian.

CHALDEE
Chal"dee, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Chaldea.
 -- n.

Defn: The language or dialect of the Chaldeans; eastern Aramaic, or
the Aramaic used in Chaldea. Chaldee Paraphrase, A targum written in
Aramaic.

CHALDRICH; CHALDER
Chal"drich, Chal"der, n. Etym: [Icel. tjaldr.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of bird; the oyster catcher.

CHALDRON
Chal"dron, n. Etym: [OF. chaldron, F. chaudron kettle. The same word
as caldron.]

Defn: An English dry measure, being, at London, 36 bushels heaped up,
or its equivalent weight, and more than twice as much at Newcastle.
Now used exlusively for coal and coke.

Note: In the United States the chaldron is ordinarily 2,940 lbs, but
at New York it is 2,500 lbs. De Colange.

CHALET
Cha*let", n. Etym: [F.]

1. A herdsman's hut in the mountains of Switzerland.
Chalets are summer huts for the Swiss herdsmen. Wordsworth.

2. A summer cottage or country house in the Swiss mountains; any
country house built in the style of the Swiss cottages.

CHALICE
Chal"ice, n. Etym: [OR. chalis, calice, OF. chalice, calice, F.
calice, fr. L. calix, akin to Gr. helmet. Cf. Calice, Calyx.]

Defn: A cup or bowl; especially, the cup used in the sacrament of the
Lord's Supper.

CHALICED
Chal"iced, a.

Defn: Having a calyx or cup; cupshaped. "Chaliced flowers." Shak.

CHALK
Chalk, n. Etym: [AS. cealc lime, from L. calx limestone. See Calz,
and Cawk.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A soft, earthy substance, of a white, grayish, or yellowish
white color, consisting of calcium carbonate, and having the same
composition as common limestone.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Finely prepared chalk, used as a drawing implement; also, by
extension, a compound, as of clay and black lead, or the like, used
in the same manner. See Crayon. Black chalk, a mineral of a bluish
color, of a slaty texture, and soiling the fingers when handled; a
variety of argillaceous slate.
 -- By a long chalk, by a long way; by many degrees. [Slang] Lowell.
 -- Chalk drawing (Fine Arts), a drawing made with crayons. See
Crayon.
 -- Chalk formation. See Cretaceous formation, under Cretaceous.
 -- Chalk line, a cord rubbed with chalk, used for making straight
lines on boards or other material, as a guide in cutting or in
arranging work.
 -- Chalk mixture, a preparation of chalk, cinnamon, and sugar in gum
water, much used in diarrheal affection, esp. of infants.
 -- Chalk period. (Geol.) See Cretaceous period, under Cretaceous.
 -- Chalk pit, a pit in which chalk is dug.
 -- Drawing chalk. See Crayon, n., 1.
 -- French chalk, steatite or soapstone, a soft magnesian mineral.
 -- Red chalk, an indurated clayey ocher containing iron, and used by
painters and artificers; reddle.

CHALK
Chalk, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chalked; p. pr. & vb. n. Chalking.]

1. To rub or mark with chalk.

2. To manure with chalk, as land. Morimer.

3. To make white, as with chalk; to make pale; to bleach. Tennyson.
Let a bleak paleness chalk the door. Herbert.
To chalk out, to sketch with, or as with, chalk; to outline; to
indicate; to plan. [Colloq.] "I shall pursue the plan I have chalked
out." Burke.

CHALKCUTTER
Chalk"cut`ter, n.

Defn: A man who digs chalk.

CHALKINESS
Chalk"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being chalky.

CHALKSTONE
Chalk"stone`, n.

1. A mass of chalk.
As chalkstones . . . beaten in sunder. Isa. xxvii. 9.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A chalklike concretion, consisting mainly of urate of sodium,
found in and about the small joints, in the external ear, and in
other situations, in those affected with gout; a tophus.

CHALKY
Chalk"y, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, chalk; containing chalk; as, a
chalky cliff; a chalky taste.

CHALLENGE
Chal"lenge, n. Etym: [OE. chalenge claim, accusation, challenge, OF.
chalenge, chalonge, claim, accusation, contest, fr. L. calumnia false
accusation, chicanery. See Calumny.]

1. An invitation to engage in a contest or controversy of any kind; a
defiance; specifically, a summons to fight a duel; also, the letter
or message conveying the summons.
A challenge to controversy. Goldsmith.

2. The act of a sentry in halting any one who appears at his post,
and demanding the countersign.

3. A claim or demand. [Obs.]
There must be no challenge of superiority. Collier.

4. (Hunting)

Defn: The opening and crying of hounds at first finding the scent of
their game.

5. (Law)

Defn: An exception to a juror or to a member of a court martial,
coupled with a demand that he should be held incompetent to act; the
claim of a party that a certain person or persons shall not sit in
trial upon him or his cause. Blackstone

6. An exception to a person as not legally qualifed to vote. The
challenge must be made when the ballot is offered. [U. S.] Challenge
to the array (Law), an exception to the whole panel.
 -- Challenge to the favor, the alleging a special cause, the
sufficiency of which is to be left to those whose duty and office it
is to decide upon it.
 -- Challenge to the polls, an exception taken to any one or more of
the individual jurors returned.
 -- Peremptory challenge, a privilege sometimes allowed to
defendants, of challenging a certain number of jurors (fixed by
statute in different States) without assigning any cause.
 -- Principal challenge, that which the law allows to be sufficient
if found to be true.

CHALLENGE
Chal"lenge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Challenged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Challenging.] Etym: [OE. chalengen to accuse, claim, OF. chalengier,
chalongier, to claim, accuse, dispute, fr. L. calumniar to attack
with false accusations. See Challenge, n., and cf. Calumniate.]

1. To call to a contest of any kind; to call to answer; to defy.
I challenge any man to make any pretense to power by right of
fatherhood. Locke.

2. To call, invite, or summon to answer for an offense by personal
combat.
By this I challenge him to single fight. Shak.

3. To claim as due; to demand as a right.
Challenge better terms. Addison.

4. To censure; to blame. [Obs.]
He complained of the emperors . . . and challenged them for that he
had no greater revenues . . . from them. Holland.

5. (Mil.)

Defn: To question or demand the countersign from (one who attempts to
pass the lines); as, the sentinel challenged us, with "Who comes
there"

6. To take exception to; question; as, to challenge the accuracy of a
statement or of a quotation.

7. (Law)

Defn: To object to or take exception to, as to a juror, or member of
a court.

8. To object to the reception of the vote of, as on the ground that
the person in not qualifed as a voter. [U. S.] To challenge to the
array, favor, polls. See under Challenge, n.

CHALLENGE
Chal"lenge, v. i.

Defn: To assert a right; to claim a place.
Where nature doth with merit challenge. Shak.

CHALLENGEABLE
Chal"lenge*a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be challenged.

CHALLENGER
Chal"len*ger, n.

Defn: One who challenges.

CHALLIS
Chal"lis, n. Etym: [F. chaly, challis, a stuff made of goat's hair.]

Defn: A soft and delicate woolen, or woolen and silk, fabric, for
ladies' dresses. [Written also chally.]

CHALON
Cha"lon, n.

Defn: A bed blanket. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHALYBEAN
Cha*lyb"e*an, a. Etym: [L. chalybeïus, fr. chalybs steel, Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to the Chalybes, an ancient people of Pontus in
Asia Minor, celebrated for working in iron and steel.

2. Of superior quality and temper; -- applied to steel. [Obs.]
Milton.

CHALYBEATE
Cha*lyb"e*ate, a. Etym: [NL. chalybeatus, fr. chalubeïus. See
Chalubean.]

Defn: Impregnated with salts of iron; having a taste like iron; as,
chalybeate springs.

CHALYBEATE
Cha*lyb"e*ate, n.

Defn: Any water, liquid, or medicine, into which iron enters as an
ingredient.

CHALYBEOUS
Cha*lyb"e*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Steel blue; of the color of tempered steel.

CHALYBITE
Chal"y*bite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Native iron carbonate; -- usually called siderite.

CHAM
Cham, v. t. Etym: [See Chap.]

Defn: To chew. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Sir T. More.

CHAM
Cham, n. Etym: [See Khan.]

Defn: The sovereign prince of Tartary; -- now usually written khan.
Shak.

CHAMADE
Cha*made, n. Etym: [F. chamade, fr. Pg. chamada, fr. chamar to call,
fr. L. clamare.] (Mil.)

Defn: A signal made for a parley by beat of a drum.
They beat the chamade, and sent us carte blanche. Addison.

CHAMAL
Cha"mal, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Angora goat. See Angora goat, under Angora.

CHAMBER
Cham"ber, n. Etym: [F. chambre, fr. L. camera vault, arched roof, in
LL. chamber, fr. Gr. kmar to be crooked. Cf. Camber, Camera,
Comrade.]

1. A retired room, esp. an upper room used for sleeping; a bedroom;
as, the house had four chambers.

2. pl.

Defn: Apartments in a lodging house. "A bachelor's life in chambers."
Thackeray.

3. A hall, as where a king gives audience, or a deliberative body or
assembly meets; as, presence chamber; senate chamber.

4. A legislative or judicial body; an assembly; a society or
association; as, the Chamber of Deputies; the Chamber of Commerce.

5. A compartment or cell; an inclosed space or cavity; as, the
chamber of a canal lock; the chamber of a furnace; the chamber of the
eye.

6. pl. (Law.)

Defn: A room or rooms where a lawyer transacts business; a room or
rooms where a judge transacts such official business as may be done
out of court.

7. A chamber pot. [Colloq.]

8. (Mil.)
(a) That part of the bore of a piece of ordnance which holds the
charge, esp. when of different diameter from the rest of the bore; --
formerly, in guns, made smaller than the bore, but now larger, esp.
in breech-loading guns.
(b) A cavity in a mine, usually of a cubical form, to contain the
powder.
(c) A short piece of ornance or cannon, which stood on its breech,
without any carriage, formerly used chiefly for rejoicings and
theatrical cannonades. Air chamber. See Air chamber, in the
Vocabulary.
 -- Chamber of commerce, a board or association to protect the
interests of commerce, chosen from among the merchants and traders of
a city.
 -- Chamber council, a secret council. Shak.
 -- Chamber counsel or counselor, a counselor who gives his opinion
in private, or at his chambers, but does not advocate causes in
court.
 -- Chamber fellow, a chamber companion; a roommate; a chum.
 -- Chamber hangings, tapestry or hangings for a chamber.
 -- Chamber lye, urine. Shak.
 -- Chamber music, vocal or instrumental music adapted to performance
in a chamber or small apartment or audience room, instead of a
theater, concert hall, or chuch.
 -- Chamber practice (Law.), the practice of counselors at law, who
give their opinions in private, but do not appear in court.
 -- To sit at chambers, to do business in chambers, as a judge.

CHAMBER
Cham"ber, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chambered; p. pr. & vb. n. Chambering.]

1. To reside in or occupy a chamber or chambers.

2. To be lascivious. [Obs.]

CHAMBER
Cham"ber, v. t.

1. To shut up, as inn a chamber. Shak.

2. To furnish with a chamber; as, to chamber a gun.

CHAMBERED
Cham"bered, a.

Defn: Having a chamber or chambers; as, a chambered shell; a
chambered gun.

CHAMBERER
Cham"ber*er, n.

1. One who attends in a chamber; a chambermaid. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A civilian; a carpetmonger. [Obs.]

CHAMBERING
Cham"ber*ing, n.

Defn: Lewdness. [Obs.] Rom. xiii. 13.

CHAMBERLAIN
Cham"ber*lain, n. Etym: [OF. chamberlain, chambrelencF. chambellon,
OHG. chamerling, chamarlinc, G. kämmerling, kammer chamber (fr. L.
camera) + -ling. See Chamber, and -ling.] [Formerly written
chamberlin.]

1. An officer or servant who has charge of a chamber or chambers.

2. An upper servant of an inn. [Obs.]

3. An officer having the direction and management of the private
chambers of a nobleman or monarch; hence, in Europe, one of the high
officers of a court.

4. A treasurer or receiver of public money; as, the chamberlain of
London, of North Wales, etc. The lord chamberlain of England, an
officer of the crown, who waits upon the sovereign on the day of
coronation, and provides requisites for the palace of Westminster,
and for the House of Lords during the session of Parliament. Under
him are the gentleman of the black rod and other officers. His office
is distinct from that of the lord chamberlain of the Household, whose
functions relate to the royal housekeeping.

CHAMBERLAINSHIP
Cham"ber*lain*ship, n.

Defn: Office if a chamberlain.

CHAMBERMAID
Cham"ber*maid`, n.

1. A maidservant who has the care of chambers, making the beds,
sweeping, cleaning the rooms, etc.

2. A lady's maid. [Obs.] Johnson.

CHAMBERTIN
Cham`ber*tin", n.

Defn: A red wine from Chambertin near Dijon, in Burgundy.

CHAMBRANLE
Cham`bran"le, n. [F.] (Arch.)

Defn: An ornamental bordering or framelike decoration around the
sides and top of a door, window, or fireplace. The top piece is
called the traverse and the side pieces the ascendants.

CHAMBRAY
Cham"bray, n. [From Cambrai, France. Cf. Cambric.]

Defn: A gingham woven in plain colors with linen finish.

CHAMBREL
Cham"brel, n.

Defn: Same as Gambrel.

CHAMECK
Cha*meck", n. Etym: [Native Brazilian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of spider monkey (Ateles chameck), having the thumbs
rudimentary and without a nail.

CHAMELEON
Cha*me"le*on, n. Etym: [L. Chamaeleon, Gr. Humble, and Lion.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lizardlike reptile of the genus Chamæleo, of several species,
found in Africa, Asia, and Europe. The skin is covered with fine
granmulations; the tail is prehensile, and the body is much
compressed laterally, giving it a high back.

Note: Its color changes more or less with the color of the objects
about it, or with its temper when disturbed. In a cool, dark place it
is nearly white, or grayish; on admitting the light, it changes to
brown, bottle-green, or blood red, of various shades, and more or
less mottled in arrangment. The American chameleons belong to Anolis
and allied genera of the family Iguanidæ. They are more slender in
form than the true chameleons, but have the same power of changing
their colors. Chameleon mineral (Chem.), the compound called
potassium permanganate, a dark violet, crystalline substance, KMnO4,
which in formation passes through a peculiar succession of color from
green to blue, purple, red, etc. See Potassium permanganate, under
Potassium.

CHAMELEONIZE
Cha*me"le*on*ize, v. t.

Defn: To change into various colors. [R.]

CHAMFER
Cham"fer, n. Etym: [See Chamfron.]

Defn: The surface formed by cutting away the arris, or angle, formed
by two faces of a piece of timber, stone, etc.

CHAMFER
Cham"fer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chamfered ; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chamfering.(

1. (Carp.)

Defn: To cut a furrow in, as in a column; to groove; to channel; to
flute.

2. To make a chamfer on.

CHAMFRET
Cham"fret, n. Etym: [See Chamfron.]

1. (Carp.)

Defn: A small gutter; a furrow; a groove.

2. A chamfer.

CHAMFRON
Cham"fron, n. Etym: [F. chanfrein.] (Anc. Armor)

Defn: The frontlet, or head armor, of a horse. [Written also
champfrain and chamfrain.]

CHAMISAL
Cha`mi*sal", n. [Amer. Sp., fr. Sp. chamiza a kind of wild cane.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A California rosaceous shrub (Adenostoma fasciculatum) which
often forms an impenetrable chaparral.

2.  A chaparral formed by dense growths of this shrub.

CHAMLET
Cham"let, n.

Defn: See Camlet. [Obs.]

CHAMOIS
Cham"ois, n. Etym: [F. chamois, prob. fr. OG. gamz, G. gemse.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small species of antelope (Rupicapra tragus), living on the
loftiest mountain ridges of Europe, as the Alps, Pyrenees, etc. It
possesses remarkable agility, and is a favorite object of chase.

2. A soft leather made from the skin of the chamois, or from
sheepskin, etc.; -- called also chamois leather, and chammy or shammy
leather. See Shammy.

CHAMOMILE
Cham"o*mile, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Camomile.

CHAMP
Champ, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Champed; p. pr. & vb. n. Champing.] Etym:
[Prob, of Scand. orgin; cf. dial. Sw. kämsa to chew with difficulty,
champ; but cf. also OF. champier, champeyer, champoyer, to graze in
fields, fr. F. champ field, fr. L. campus. Cf. Camp.]

1. To bite with repeated action of the teeth so as to be heard.
Foamed and champed the golden bit. Dryden.

2. To bite into small pieces; to crunch. Steele.

CHAMP
Champ, v. i.

Defn: To bite or chew impatiently.
They began . . . irefully to champ upon the bit. Hooker.

CHAMP; CHAMPE
Champ, Champe, n. Etym: [F. champ, L. campus field.] (Arch.)

Defn: The field or ground on which carving appears in relief.

CHAMPAGNE
Cham*pagne", n. Etym: [F. See Champaign.]

Defn: A light wine, of several kinds, originally made in the province
of Champagne, in France.

Note: Champagne properly includes several kinds not only of sparkling
but off still wines; but in America the term is usually restricted to
wines which effervesce.

CHAMPAIGN
Cham*paign", n. Etym: [OF. champaigne; same word as campagne.]

Defn: A flat, open country.
Fair champaign, with less rivers interveined. Milton.
Through Apline vale or champaign wide. Wordsworth.

CHAMPAIGN
Cham*paign", a.

Defn: Flat; open; level.
A wide, champaign country, filled with herds. Addison.

CHAMPER
Champ"er, n.

Defn: One who champs, or bites.

CHAMPERTOR
Cham"per*tor, n. Etym: [F. champarteur a divider of fields or field
rent. See Champerty.] (Law)

Defn: One guilty of champerty; one who purchases a suit, or the right
of suing, and carries it on at his own expense, in order to obtain a
share of the gain.

CHAMPERTY
Cham"per*ty, n. Etym: [F. champart field rent, L. campipars; champ
(L. campus) field + part (L. pars) share.]

1. Partnership in power; equal share of authority. [Obs.]
Beauté ne sleighte, strengthe ne hardyness, Ne may with Venus holde
champartye. Chaucer.

2. (Law)

Defn: The prosecution or defense of a suit, whether by furnishing
money or personal services, by one who has no legitimate concern
therein, in consideration of an agreement that he shall receive, in
the event of success, a share of the matter in suit; maintenance with
the addition of an agreement to divide the thing in suit. See
Maintenance.

Note: By many authorities champerty is defined as an agreement of
this nature. From early times the offence of champerty has been
forbidden and punishable.

CHAMPIGNON
Cham*pi"gnon, n. Etym: [F., a mushroom, ultimately fr. L. campus
field. See Camp.] (Bot.)

Defn: An edible species of mushroom (Agaricus campestris). Fairy ring
champignon, the Marasmius oreades, which has a strong flavor but is
edible.

CHAMPION
Cham"pi*on, n. Etym: [F. champion, fr. LL.campio, of German origin;
cf. OHG. chempho, chemphio, fighter, champf, G. kampf, contest; perh.
influenced by L. campus field, taken in the sense of "field of
battle."]

1. One who engages in any contest; esp. one who in ancient times
contended in single combat in behalf of another's honor or rights; or
one who acts or speaks in behalf of a person or a cause; a defender;
an advocate; a hero.
A stouter champion never handled sword. Shak.
Champions of law and liberty. Fisher Ames.

2. One who by defeating all rivals, has obtained an acknowledged
supremacy in any branch of athetics or game of skill, and is ready to
contend with any rival; as, the champion of England.

Note: Champion is used attributively in the sense of surpassing all
competitors; overmastering; as, champion pugilist; champion chess
player.

Syn.
 -- Leader; chieftain; combatant; hero; warrior; defender; protector.

CHAMPION
Cham"pi*on, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Championed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Championing.] [Obs.] Shak.

2. To furnish with a champion; to attend or defend as champion; to
support or maintain; to protect.
Championed or unchampioned, thou diest. Sir W. Scott.

CHAMPIONNESS
Cham"pi*on*ness, n.

Defn: A female champion. Fairfax.

CHAMPIONSHIP
Cham"pi*on*ship, n.

Defn: State of being champion; leadership; supremancy.

CHAMPLAIN PERIOD
Cham*plain" pe"ri*od. (Geol.)

Defn: A subdivision of the Quaternary age immediately following the
Glacial period; -- so named from beds near Lake Champlain.

Note: The earlier deposits of this period are diluvial in character,
as if formed in connection with floods attending the melting of the
glaciers, while the later deposits are of finer material in more
quiet waters, as the alluvium.

CHAMPLEVE
Champ`le*vé", a. [F., p. p. of champlever to engrave. See 3d Champ,
Camp, Lever a bar.] (Art)

Defn: Having the ground engraved or cut out in the parts to be
enameled; inlaid in depressions made in the ground; -- said of a kind
of enamel work in which depressions made in the surface are filled
with enamel pastes, which are afterward fired; also, designating the
process  of making such enamel work. --n.

Defn: A piece of champlevé enamel; also, the process or art of making
such enamel work; champlevé work.

CHAMSIN
Cham*sin", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Kamsin.

CHANCE
Chance, n. Etym: [F. chance, OF. cheance, fr. LL. cadentia a allusion
to the falling of the dice), fr. L. cadere to fall; akin to Skr. çad
to fall, L. cedere to yield, E. cede. Cf. Cadence.]

1. A supposed material or psychical agent or mode of activity other
than a force, law, or purpose; fortune; fate; -- in this sense often
personifed.
It is strictly and philosophically true in nature and reason that
there is no such thing as chance or accident; it being evident that
these words do not signify anything really existing, anything that is
truly an agent or the cause of any event; but they signify merely
men's ignorance of the real and immediate cause. Samuel Clark.
Any society into which chance might throw him. Macaulay.
That power Which erring men call Chance. Milton.

2. The operation or activity of such agent.
By chance a priest came down that way. Luke x. 31.

3. The supposed effect of such an agent; something that befalls, as
the result of unknown or unconsidered forces; the issue of uncertain
conditions; an event not calculated upon; an unexpected occurrence; a
happening; accident; fortuity; casualty.
It was a chance that happened to us. 1 Sam. vi. 9.
The Knave of Diamonds tries his wily arts, And wins (O shameful
chance!) the Queen of Hearts. Pope.
I spake of most disastrous chance. Shak.

4. A possibity; a likelihood; an opportunity; -- with reference to a
doubtful result; as, a chance result; as, a chance to escape; a
chance for life; the chances are all against him.
So weary with disasters, tugged with fortune. That I would get my
life on any chance, To mend it, or be rid on't Shak.

5. (Math.)

Defn: Probability.

Note: The mathematical expression, of a chance is the ratio of
frequency with which an event happens in the long run. If an event
may happen in a ways and may fail in b ways, and each of these a + b
ways is equally likely, the chance, or probability, that the event
will happen is measured by the fraction a/(a + b), and the chance, or
probability, that it will fail is measured by b/(a + b). Chance
comer, one who, comes unexpectedly.
 -- The last chance, the sole remaining ground of hope.
 -- The main chance, the chief opportunity; that upon which reliance
is had, esp. self-interest.
 -- Theory of chances, Doctrine of chances (Math.), that branch of
mathematics which treats of the probability of the occurrence of
particular events, as the fall of dice in given positions.
 -- To mind one's chances, to take advantage of every circumstance;
to seize every opportunity.

CHANCE
Chance, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chanced; p. pr. & vb. n. Chancing.]

Defn: To happen, come, or arrive, without design or expectation.
"Things that chance daily." Robynson (More's Utopia).
If a bird's nest chance to be before thee. Deut. xxii. 6.
I chanced on this letter. Shak.

Note: Often used impersonally; as, how chances it
How chance, thou art returned so soon Shak.

CHANCE
Chance, v. t.

1. To take the chances of; to venture upon; -- usually with it as
object.
Come what will, I will chance it. W. D. Howells.

2. To befall; to happen to. [Obs.] W. Lambarde.

CHANCE
Chance, a.

Defn: Happening by chance; casual.

CHANCE
Chance, adv.

Defn: By chance; perchance. Gray.

CHANCEABLE
Chance"a*ble, a.

Defn: Fortuitous; casual. [Obs.]

CHANCEABLY
Chance"a*bly, adv.

Defn: By chance. [Obs.]

CHANCEFUL
Chance"ful, a.

Defn: Hazardous. [Obs.] Spenser.

CHANCEL
Chan"cel, n. Etym: [OF. chancel, F. chanceau, cancel, fr. L. cancelli
lattices, crossbars. (The chancel was formerly inclosed with lattices
or crossbars) See Cancel, v. t.] (Arch.)
(a) That part of a church, reserved for the use of the clergy, where
the altar, or communion table, is placed. Hence, in modern use;
(b) All that part of a cruciform church which is beyond the line of
the transept farthest from the main front. Chancel aisle (Arch.), the
aisle which passes on either side of or around the chancel.
 -- Chancel arch (Arch.), the arch which spans the main opening,
leading to the chancel -- Chancel casement, the principal window in a
chancel. Tennyson.
 -- Chancel table, the communion table.

CHANCELLERY
Chan"cel*ler*y, n. Etym: [Cf. Chancery.]

Defn: Chancellorship. [Obs.] Gower.

CHANCELLOR
Chan"cel*lor, n. Etym: [OE. canceler, chaunceler, F. chancelier, LL.
cancellarius chancellor, a director of chancery, fr. L. cancelli
lattices, crossbars, which surrounded the seat of judgment. See
Chancel.]

Defn: A judicial court of chancery, which in England and in the
United States is distinctively a court with equity jurisdiction.

Note: The chancellor was originally a chief scribe or secretary under
the Roman emperors, but afterward was invested with judicial powers,
and had superintendence over the other officers of the empire. From
the Roman empire this office passed to the church, and every bishop
has his chancellor, the principal judge of his consistory. In later
times, in most countries of Europe, the chancellor was a high officer
of state, keeper of the great seal of the kingdom, and having the
supervision of all charters, and like public instruments of the
crown, which were authenticated in the most solemn manner. In France
a secretary is in some cases called a chancellor. In Scotland, the
appellation is given to the foreman of a jury, or assize. In the
present German empire, the chancellor is the president of the federal
council and the head of the imperial administration. In the United
States, the title is given to certain judges of courts of chancery or
equity, established by the statutes of separate States. Blackstone.
Wharton. Chancellor of a bishop, or of a diocese (R. C. Ch. & ch. of
Eng.), a law officer appointed to hold the bishop's court in his
diocese, and to assist him in matter of ecclesiastical law.
 -- Chancellor of a cathedral, one of the four chief dignitaries of
the cathedrals of the old foundation, and an officer whose duties are
chiefly educational, with special reference to the cultivation of
theology.
 -- Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, an officer before whom, or
his deputy, the court of the duchy chamber of Lancaster is held. This
is a special jurisdiction.
 -- Chancellor of a university, the chief officer of a collegiate
body. In Oxford, he is elected for life; in Cambridge, for a term of
years; and his office is honorary, the chief duties of it devolving
on the vice chancellor.
 -- Chancellor of the exchequer, a member of the British cabinet upon
whom devolves the charge of the public income and expenditure as the
highest finance minister of the government.
 -- Chancellor of the order of the Garter (or other military orders),
an officer who seals the commissions and mandates of the chapter and
assembly of the knights, keeps the register of their proceedings, and
delivers their acts under the seal of their order.
 -- Lord high chancellor of England, the presiding judge in the court
of chancery, the highest judicial officer of the crown, and the first
lay person of the state after the blood royal. He is created
chancellor by the delivery into his custody of the great seal, of
which he becomes keeper. He is privy counselor by his office, and
prolocutor of the House of Lords by prescription.

CHANCELLORSHIP
Chan"cel*lor*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a chancellor; the time during which one is
chancellor.

CHANCE-MEDLEY
Chance"-med`ley, n. Etym: [Chance + medley.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The kiling of another in self-defense upon a sudden and
unpremeditated encounter. See Chaud-Medley.

Note: The term has been sometimes applied to any kind of homicide by
misadventure, or to any accidental killing of a person without
premeditation or evil intent, but, in strictness, is applicable to
such killing as happens in defending one's self against assault.
Bouvier.

2. Luck; chance; accident. Milton. Cowper.

CHANCERY
Chan"cer*y, n. Etym: [F. chancellerie, LL. cancellaria, from L.
cancellarius. See Chancellor, and cf. Chancellery.]

1. In England, formerly, the highest court of judicature next to the
Parliament, exercising jurisdiction at law, but chiefly in equity;
but under the jurisdiction act of 1873 it became the chancery
division of the High Court of Justice, and now exercises jurisdiction
only in equity.

2. In the Unites States, a court of equity; equity; proceeding in
equity.

Note: A court of chancery, so far as it is a court of equity, in the
English and American sense, may be generally, if not precisely,
described as one having jurisdiction in cases of rights, recognized
and protected by the municipal jurisprudence, where a plain,
adequate, and complete remedy can not be had in the courts of common
law. In some of the American States, jurisdiction at law and in
equity centers in the same tribunal. The courts of the United States
also have jurisdiction both at law and in equity, and in all such
cases they exercise their jurisdiction, as courts of law, or as
courts of equity, as the subject of adjudication may require. In
others of the American States, the courts that administer equity are
distinct tribunals, having their appropriate judicial officers, and
it is to the latter that the appellation courts of chancery is
usually applied; but, in American law, the terms equity and court of
equity are more frequently employed than the corresponding terms
chancery and court of chancery. Burrill. Inns of chancery. See under
Inn.
 -- To get (or to hold) In chancery (Boxing), to get the head of an
antagonist under one's arm, so that one can pommel it with the other
fist at will; hence, to have wholly in One's power. The allusion is
to the condition of a person involved in the chancery court, where he
was helpless, while the lawyers lived upon his estate.

CHANCRE
Chan"cre, n. Etym: [F. chancere. See Cancer.] (Med.)

Defn: A venereal sore or ulcer; specifically, the initial lesion of
true syphilis, whether forming a distinct ulcer or not; -- called
also hard chancre, indurated chancre, and Hunterian chancre. Soft
chancre. A chancroid. See Chancroid.

CHANCROID
Chan"croid, n. Etym: [Chancre + -oil.] (Med.)

Defn: A venereal sore, resembling a chancre in its seat and some
external characters, but differing from it in being the starting
point of a purely local process and never of a systemic disease; --
called also soft chancre.

CHANCROUS
Chan"crous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. chancreux.] (Med.)

Defn: Of the nature of a chancre; having chancre.

CHANDELIER
Chan`de*lier", n. Etym: [F. See Chandler.]

1. A candlestick, lamp, stand, gas fixture, or the like, having
several branches; esp., one hanging from the ceiling.

2. (Fort.)

Defn: A movable parapet, serving to support fascines to cover
pioneers. [Obs.]

CHANDLER
Chan"dler, n. Etym: [F. chandelier a candlestick, a maker or seller
of candles, LL. candelarius chandler, fr. L. candela candle. See
Candle, and cf. Chandelier.]

1. A maker or seller of candles.
The chandler's basket, on his shoulder borne, With tallow spots thy
coat. Gay.

2. A dealer in other commodities, which are indicated by a word
prefixed; as, ship chandler, corn chandler.

CHANDLERLY
Chan"dler*ly, a.

Defn: Like a chandler; in a petty way. [Obs.] Milton.

CHANDLERY
Chan"dler*y, n.

Defn: Commodities sold by a chandler.

CHANDOO
Chan*doo", n.

Defn: An extract or preparation of opium, used in China and India for
smoking. Balfour.

CHANDRY
Chan"dry, n.

Defn: Chandlery. [Obs.] "Torches from the chandry." B. Jonson.

CHANFRIN
Chan"frin, n. Etym: [F. chanfrein. Cf. Chamfron.]

Defn: The fore part of a horse's head.

CHANGE
Change, v. t. [Imp. & p. p. Changed; p. pr. & vb. n. Changing.] Etym:
[F. changer, fr. LL. cambiare, to exchange, barter, L. cambire. Cf.
Cambial.]

1. To alter; to make different; to cause to pass from one state to
another; as, to change the position, character, or appearance of a
thing; to change the countenance.
Therefore will I change their glory into shame. Hosea. iv. 7.

2. To alter by substituting something else for, or by giving up for
something else; as, to change the clothes; to change one's
occupation; to change one's intention.
They that do change old love for new, Pray gods, they change for
worse! Peele.

3. To give and take reciprocally; to exchange; -- followed by with;
as, to change place, or hats, or money, with another.
Look upon those thousands with whom thou wouldst not, for any
interest, change thy fortune and condition. Jer. Taylor.

4. Specifically: To give, or receive, smaller denominations of money
(technically called change) for; as, to change a gold coin or a bank
bill.
He pulled out a thirty-pound note and bid me change it. Goldsmith.
To change a horse, or To change hand (Man.), to turn or bear the
horse's head from one hand to the other, from the left to right, or
from the right to the left.
 -- To change hands, to change owners.
 -- To change one's tune, to become less confident or boastful.
[Colloq.] -- To change step, to take a break in the regular
succession of steps, in marching or walking, as by bringing the
hollow of one foot against the heel of the other, and then stepping
off with the foot which is in advance.

Syn.
 -- To alter; vary; deviate; substitute; innovate; diversify; shift;
veer; turn. See Alter.

CHANGE
Change, v. i.

1. To be altered; to undergo variation; as, men sometimes change for
the better.
For I am Lord, I change not. Mal. iii. 6.

2. To pass from one phase to another; as, the moon changes to-morrow
night.

CHANGE
Change, n. Etym: [F. change, fr. changer. See Change. v. t.]

1. Any variation or alteration; a passing from one state or form to
another; as, a change of countenance; a change of habits or
principles.
Apprehensions of a change of dynasty. Hallam.
All the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come.
Job xiv. 14.

2. A succesion or substitution of one thing in the place of another;
a difference; novelty; variety; as, a change of seasons.
Our fathers did for change to France repair. Dryden.
The ringing grooves of change. Tennyson.

3. A passing from one phase to another; as, a change of the moon.

4. Alteration in the order of a series; permutation.

5. That which makes a variety, or may be substituted for another.
Thirty change (R.V. changes) of garments. Judg. xiv. 12.

6. Small money; the money by means of which the larger coins and bank
bills are made available in small dealings; hence, the balance
returned when payment is tendered by a coin or note exceeding the sum
due.

7. Etym: [See Exchange.]

Defn: A place where merchants and others meet to transact business; a
building appropriated for mercantile transactions. [Colloq. for
Exchange.]

8. A public house; an alehouse. [Scot.]
They call an alehouse a change. Burt.

9. (Mus.)

Defn: Any order in which a number of bells are struck, other than
that of the diatonic scale.
Four bells admit twenty-four changes in ringing. Holder.
Change of life, the period in the life of a woman when menstruation
and the capacity for conception cease, usually occurring between
forty-five and fifty years of age.
 -- Change ringing, the continual production, without repetition, of
changes on bells, See def. 9. above.
 -- Change wheel (Mech.), one of a set of wheels of different sizes
and number of teeth, that may be changed or substituted one for
another in machinery, to produce a different but definite rate of
angular velocity in an axis, as in cutting screws, gear, etc.
 -- To ring the changes on, to present the same facts or arguments in
variety of ways.

Syn.
 -- Variety; variation; alteration; mutation; transition;
vicissitude; innovation; novelty; transmutation; revolution; reverse.

CHANGEABILITY
Change`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Changeableness.

CHANGEABLE
Change"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. changeable.]

1. Capable of change; subject to alteration; mutable; variable;
fickle; inconstant; as, a changeable humor.

2. Appearing different, as in color, in different lights, or under
different circumstances; as, changeable silk.

Syn.
 -- Mutable; alterable; variable; inconstant; fitful; vacillating;
capricious; fickle; unstable; unsteady; unsettled; wavering; erratic;
giddy; volatile.

CHANGEABLENESS
Change"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being changeable; fickleness; inconstancy;
mutability.

CHANGEABLY
Change"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a changeable manner.

CHANGEFUL
Change"ful, a.

Defn: Full of change; mutable; inconstant; fickle; uncertain. Pope.
His course had been changeful. Motley.
-- Change"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Change"ful*ness, n.

CHANGE GEAR
Change gear. (Mach.)

Defn: A gear by means of which the speed of machinery or of a vehicle
may be changed while that of the propelling engine or motor remains
constant; -- called also change-speed gear.

CHANGE KEY
Change key.

Defn: A key adapted to open only one of a set of locks; --
distinguished from a master key.

CHANGELESS
Change"less, a.

Defn: That can not be changed; constant; as, a changeless purpose.
 -- Change"less*ness, n.

CHANGELING
Change"ling, n. Etym: [Change + -ling.]

1. One who, or that which, is left or taken in the place of another,
as a child exchanged by fairies.
Such, men do changelings call, so changed by fairies' theft. Spenser.
The changeling [a substituted writing] never known. Shak.

2. A simpleton; an idiot. Macaulay.
Changelings and fools of heaven, and thence shut out.
Wildly we roam in discontent about. Dryden.

3. One apt to change; a waverer. "Fickle changelings." Shak.

CHANGELING
Change"ling, a.

1. Taken or left in place of another; changed. "A little changeling
boy." Shak.

2. Given to change; inconstant. [Obs.]
Some are so studiously changeling. Boyle.

CHANGER
Chan"ger, n.

1. One who changes or alters the form of anything.

2. One who deals in or changes money. John ii. 14.

3. One apt to change; an inconstant person.

CHANK
Chank", n. Etym: [Skr. çankha. See Conch.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The East Indian name for the large spiral shell of several
species of sea conch much used in making bangles, esp. Turbinella
pyrum. Called also chank chell.

CHANNEL
Chan"nel, n. Etym: [OE. chanel, canel, OF. chanel, F. chenel, fr. L.
canalis. See Canal.]

1. The hollow bed where a stream of water runs or may run.

2. The deeper part of a river, harbor, strait, etc., where the main
current flows, or which affords the best and safest passage for
vessels.

3. (Geog.)

Defn: A strait, or narrow sea, between two portions of lands; as, the
British Channel.

4. That through which anything passes; means of passing, conveying,
or transmitting; as, the news was conveyed to us by different
channels.
The veins are converging channels. Dalton.
At best, he is but a channel to convey to the National assembly such
matter as may import that body to know. Burke.

5. A gutter; a groove, as in a fluted column.

6. pl. Etym: [Cf. Chain wales.] (Naut.)

Defn: Flat ledges of heavy plank bolted edgewise to the outside of a
vessel, to increase the spread of the shrouds and carry them clear of
the bulwarks. Channel bar, Channel iron (Arch.), an iron bar or beam
having a section resembling a flat gutter or channel.
 -- Channel bill (Zoöl.), a very large Australian cucko (Scythrops
Novæhollandiæ.
 -- Channel goose. (Zoöl.) See Gannet.

CHANNEL
Chan"nel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Channeled, or Channelled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Channeling, or Channelling.]

1. To form a channel in; to cut or wear a channel or channels in; to
groove.
No more shall trenching war channel her fields. Shak.

2. To course through or over, as in a channel. Cowper.

CHANNELING
Chan"nel*ing, n.

1. The act or process of forming a channel or channels.

2. A channel or a system of channels; a groove.

CHANSON
Chan"son, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. cantion song. See Cantion, Canzone.]

Defn: A song. Shak.

CHANSON DE GESTE
Chan`son" de geste". [F., prop., song of history.]

Defn: Any Old French epic poem having for its subject events or
exploits of early French history, real or legendary, and written
originally in assonant verse of ten or twelve syllables. The most
famous one is the Chanson de Roland.

Langtoft had written in the ordinary measure of the later chansons de
geste.
Saintsbury.

CHANSONNETTE
Chan`son*nette", n.; pl. Chansonnettes. Etym: [F., dim. of chanson.]

Defn: A little song.
These pretty little chansonnettes that he sung. Black.

CHANT
Chant, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chanted; p. pr. & vb. n. Chanting.] Etym:
[F. chanter, fr. L. cantare, intens. of canere to sing. Cf. Cant
affected speaking, and see Hen.]

1. To utter with a melodious voice; to sing.
The cheerful birds . . . do chant sweet music. Spenser.

2. To celebrate in song.
The poets chant in the theaters. Bramhall.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: To sing or recite after the manner of a chant, or to a tune
called a chant.

CHANT
Chant, v. i.

1. To make melody with the voice; to sing. "Chant to the sound of the
viol." Amos vi. 5.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: To sing, as in reciting a chant. To chant (or chaunt) horses,
to sing their praise; to overpraise; to cheat in selling. See
Chaunter. Thackeray.

CHANT
Chant, n.Etym: [F. chant, fr. L. cantus singing, song, fr. canere to
sing. See Chant, v. t.]

1. Song; melody.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A short and simple melody, divided into two parts by double
bars, to which unmetrical psalms, etc., are sung or recited. It is
the most ancient form of choral music.

3. A psalm, etc., arranged for chanting.

4. Twang; manner of speaking; a canting tone. [R.]
His strange face, his strange chant. Macaulay.
Ambrosian chant, See under Ambrosian. Chant royal Etym: [F.], in old
French poetry, a poem containing five strophes of eleven lines each,
and a concluding stanza.
 -- each of these six parts ending with a common refrain.
 -- Gregorian chant. See under Gregorian.

CHANTANT
Chan`tant", a. Etym: [F. singing.] (Mus.)

Defn: Composed in a melodious and singing style.

CHANTER
Chant"er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chanteur.]

1. One who chants; a singer or songster. Pope.

2. The chief singer of the chantry. J. Gregory.

3. The flute or finger pipe in a bagpipe. See Bagpipe.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hedge sparrow.

CHANTERELLE
Chan`te*relle", n. Etym: [F.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name for several species of mushroom, of which one
(Cantharellus cibrius) is edible, the others reputed poisonous.

CHANTEY
Chant"ey, n. [Cf. F. chanter to sing, and Chant. n.]

Defn: A sailor's song.

May we lift a deep-sea chantey such as seamen use at sea
Kipling.

CHANTICLEER
Chan"ti*cleer, n. Etym: [F. Chanteclair, name of the cock in the
Roman du Renart (Reynard the Fox); chanter to chant + clair clear.
See Chant, and Clear.]

Defn: A cock, so called from the clearness or loundness of his voice
in crowing.

CHANTING
Chant"ing, n.

Defn: Singing, esp. as a chant is sung. Chanting falcon (Zoöl.), an
African falcon (Melierax canorus or musicus). The male has the habit,
remarkable in a bird of prey, of singing to his mate, while she is
incubating.

CHANTOR
Chant"or, n.

Defn: A chanter.

CHANTRESS
Chant"ress, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. chanteresse.]

Defn: A female chanter or singer. Milton.

CHANTRY
Chant"ry, n.; pl. Chantries. Etym: [OF. chanterie, fr. chanter to
sing.]

1. An endowment or foundation for the chanting of masses and offering
of prayers, commonly for the founder.

2. A chapel or altar so endowed. Cowell.

CHAOMANCY
Cha"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of apperances in the air.

CHAOS
Cha"os, n. Etym: [L. chaos chaos (in senses 1 & 2), Gr. Chasm.]

1. An empty, immeasurable space; a yawning chasm. [Archaic]
Between us and there is fixed a great chaos. Luke xvi. 26 (Rhemish
Trans. ).

2. The confused, unorganized condition or mass of matter before the
creation of distinct and order forms.

3. Any confused or disordered collection or state of things; a
confused mixture; confusion; disorder.

CHAOTIC
Cha*ot"ic, a.

Defn: Resembling chaos; confused.

CHAOTICALLY
Cha*ot"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a chaotic manner.

CHAP
Chap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Chapping.] Etym:
[See Chop to cut.]

1. To cause to open in slits or chinks; to split; to cause the skin
of to crack or become rough.
Then would unbalanced heat licentious reign, Crack the dry hill, and
chap the russet plain. Blackmore.
Nor winter's blast chap her fair face. Lyly.

2. To strike; to beat. [Scot.]

CHAP
Chap, v. i.

1. To crack or open in slits; as, the earth chaps; the hands chap.

2. To strike; to knock; to rap. [Scot.]

CHAP
Chap, n. Etym: [From Chap, v. t. & i.]

1. A cleft, crack, or chink, as in the surface of the earth, or in
the skin.

2. A division; a breach, as in a party. [Obs.]
Many clefts and chaps in our council board. T. Fuller.

3. A blow; a rap. [Scot.]

CHAP
Chap, n. Etym: [OE. chaft; of Scand. origin; cf. Icel kjaptr jaw, Sw.
Käft, D. kiæft; akin to G. kiefer, and E. jowl. Cf. Chops.]

1. One of the jaws or the fleshy covering of a jaw; -- commonly in
the plural, and used of animals, and colloquially of human beings.
His chaps were all besmeared with crimson blood. Cowley.
He unseamed him [Macdonald] from the nave to the chaps. Shak.

2. One of the jaws or cheeks of a vise, etc.

CHAP
Chap, n. Etym: [Perh. abbreviated fr. chapman, but used in a more
general sense; or cf. Dan. kiæft jaw, person, E. chap jaw.]

1. A buyer; a chapman. [Obs.]
If you want to sell, here is your chap. Steele.

2. A man or boy; a youth; a fellow. [Colloq.]

CHAP
Chap, v. i. Etym: [See Cheapen.]

Defn: To bargain; to buy. [Obs.]

CHAPARAJOS
Cha`pa*ra"jos, n. pl. [Mex. Sp.]

Defn: Overalls of sheepskin or leather, usually open at the back,
worn, esp. by cowboys, to protect the legs from thorny bushes, as in
the chaparral; -- called also chapareras or colloq. chaps. [Sp.
Amer.]

CHAPARERAS
Cha`pa*re"ras, n. pl. [Mex. Sp.]

Defn: Same as Chaparajos. [Sp. Amer.]

CHAPARRAL
Cha`par*ral", n. Etym: [Sp., fr. chaparro an evergeen oak.]

1. A thicket of low evergreen oaks.

2. An almost impenetrable thicket or succession of thickets of thorny
shrubs and brambles. Chaparral cock; fem. Chaparral hen (Zoöl.), a
bird of the cuckoo family (Geococcyx Californianus), noted for
running with great speed. It ranges from California to Mexico and
eastward to Texas; -- called also road runner, ground cuckoo, churea,
and snake killerit is the state bird of New Mexico.

CHAPBOOK
Chap"book`, n. Etym: [See Chap to cheapen.]

Defn: Any small book carried about for sale by chapmen or hawkers.
Hence, any small book; a toy book.

CHAPE
Chape, n. Etym: [F., a churchman's cope, a cover, a chape, fr. L.
cappa. See Cap.]

1. The piece by which an object is attached to something, as the frog
of a scabbard or the metal loop at the back of a buckle by which it
is fastened to a strap.

2. The transverse guard of a sword or dagger.

3. The metal plate or tip which protects the end of a scabbard, belt,
etc. Knight.

CHAPEAU
Cha`peau", n.; pl. Chapeux. Etym: [F., fr. OF. chapel hat. See
Chaplet.]

1. hat or covering for the head.

2. (Her.)

Defn: A cap of maintenance. See Maintenance. Chapeau bras ( Etym: [F.
chapeau hat + bras arm], a hat so made that it can be compressed and
carried under the arm without injury. Such hats were particularly
worn on dress occasions by gentlemen in the 18th century. A chapeau
bras is now worn in the United States army by general and staff
officers.

CHAPED
Chaped, p. p. or a.

Defn: Furnished with a chape or chapes. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHAPEL
Chap"el, n. Etym: [OF. chapele, F. chapelle, fr. LL. capella, orig.,
a short cloak, hood, or cowl; later, a reliquary, sacred vessel,
chapel; dim. of cappa, capa, cloak, cape, cope; also, a covering for
the head. The chapel where St. Martin's cloak was preserved as a
precious relic, itself came to be called capella, whence the name was
applied to similar paces of worship, and the guardian of this cloak
was called capellanus, or chaplain. See Cap, and cf. Chaplain.,
Chaplet.]

1. A subordinate place of worship; as,
(a) a small church, often a private foundation, as for a memorial;
(b) a small building attached to a church;
(c) a room or recess in a church, containing an altar.

Note: In Catholic churches, and also in cathedrals and abbey
churches, chapels are usually annexed in the recesses on the sides of
the aisles. Gwilt.

2. A place of worship not connected with a church; as, the chapel of
a palace, hospital, or prison.

3. In England, a place of worship used by dissenters from the
Established Church; a meetinghouse.

4. A choir of singers, or an orchastra, attached to the court of a
prince or nobleman.

5. (Print.)
(a) A printing office, said to be so called because printing was
first carried on in England in a chapel near Westminster Abbey.
(b) An association of workmen in a printing office. Chapel of ease.
(a) A chapel or dependent church built for the ease or a
accommodation of an increasing parish, or for parishioners who live
at a distance from the principal church. (b) A privy. (Law) -- Chapel
master, a director of music in a chapel; the director of a court or
orchestra.
 -- To build a chapel (Naut.), to chapel a ship. See Chapel, v. t.,
2.
 -- To hold a chapel, to have a meeting of the men employed in a
printing office, for the purpose of considering questions affecting
their interests.

CHAPEL
Chap"el, v. t.

1. To deposit or inter in a chapel; to enshrine. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To cause (a ship taken aback in a light breeze) so to turn or
make a circuit as to recover, without bracing the yards, the same
tack on which she had been sailing.

CHAPELESS
Chape"less, a.

Defn: Without a chape.

CHAPELET
Chap"e*let, n. Etym: [F. See Chaplet.]

1. A pair of Straps, with stirrups, joined at the top and fastened to
the pommel or the frame of the saddle, after they have been adjusted
to the convenience of the rider. [Written also chaplet.]

2. A kind of chain pump, or dredging machine.

CHAPELLANY
Chap"el*la*ny, n.; pl. Chapellanies. Etym: [Cf. E. chapellenie, LL.
capellania. See Chaplain.]

Defn: A chapel within the jurisdiction of a church; a subordinate
ecclesiastical foundation.

CHAPELRY
Chap"el*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. chapelerie.]

Defn: The territorial disrict legally assigned to a chapel.

CHAPERON
Chap"er*on, n. Etym: [F. chaperon. See Chape, Cape, Cap.]

1. A hood; especially, an ornamental or an official hood.
His head and face covered with a chaperon, out of which there are but
two holes to look through. Howell.

2. A divice placed on the foreheads of horses which draw the hearse
in pompous funerals.

3. A matron who accompanies a young lady in public, for propriety, or
as a guide and protector.

CHAPERON
Chap"er*on, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chaperoned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chaperoning.] Etym: [Cf. F. chaperonner, fr. chaperon.]

Defn: To attend in public places as a guide and protector; to
matronize.
Fortunately Lady Bell Finley, whom I had promised to chaperon, sent
to excuse herself. Hannah More.

CHAPERONAGE
Chap"er*on`age, n.

Defn: Attendance of a chaperon on a lady in public; protection
afforded by a chaperon.

CHAPFALLEN
Chap"fall`en, a.

Defn: Having the lower chap or jaw drooping, -- an indication of
humiliation and dejection; crestfallen; discouraged. See Chopfallen.

CHAPITER
Chap"i*ter, n. Etym: [OF. chapitel, F. chapiteau, from L. capitellum,
dim. of caput head. Cf. Capital, Chapter.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A capital [Obs.] See Chapital. Ex. xxxvi. 38.

2. (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: A summary in writing of such matters as are to be inquired of
or presented before justices in eyre, or justices of assize, or of
the peace, in their sessions; -- also called articles. Jacob.

CHAPLAIN
Chap"lain, n. Etym: [F. chapelain, fr. LL. capellanus, fr. capella.
See Chapel.]

1. An ecclesiastic who has a chapel, or who performs religious
service in a chapel.

2. A clergyman who is officially atteched to the army or navy, to
some public institution, or to a family or court, for the purpose of
performing divine service.

3. Any person (clergyman or layman) chosen to conduct religious
exercises for a society, etc.; as, a chaplain of a Masonic or a
temperance lodge.

CHAPLAINCY
Chap"lain*cy, n.; pl. Chaplaincies (.

Defn: The office, position, or station of a chaplain. Swift.

CHAPLAINSHIP
Chap"lain*ship, n.

1. The office or business of a chaplain.
The Bethesda of some knight's chaplainship. Milton.

2. The possession or revenue of a chapel. Johnson.

CHAPLESS
Chap"less, a.

Defn: Having no lower jaw; hence, fleshless. [R.] "Yellow, chapless
skulls." Shak.

CHAPLET
Chap"let, n. Etym: [F. chapelet, dim. of OF. chapel hat, garland,
dim. fr. LL. cappa. See Cap, and cf. Chapelet, Chapeau.]

1. A garland or wreath to be worn on the head.

2. A string of beads, or part of a string, used by Roman Catholic in
praying; a third of a rosary, or fifty beads.
Her chaplet of beads and her missal. Longfellow.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A small molding, carved into beads, pearls, olives, etc.

4. (Man.)

Defn: A chapelet. See Chapelet, 1.

5. (Founding)

Defn: A bent piece of sheet iron, or a pin with thin plates on its
ends, for holding a core in place in the mold.

6. A tuft of feathers on a peacock's head. Johnson.

CHAPLET
Chap"let, n.

Defn: A small chapel or shrine.

CHAPLET
Chap"let, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chapleted.]

Defn: To adorn with a chaplet or with flowers. R. Browning.

CHAPMAN
Chap"man, n.; pl. Chapmen. Etym: [AS. ceápman; ceáp trade + man man;
akin to D. koopman, Sw. köpman, Dan. kiöpmand, G. kaufmann.f. Chap to
cheapen, and see Cheap.]

1. One who buys and sells; a merchant; a buyer or a seller. [Obs.]
The word of life is a quick commodity, and ought not, as a drug to be
obtruded on those chapmen who are unwilling to buy it. T. Fuller.

2. A peddler; a hawker.

CHAPPY
Chap"py,

Defn: Full of chaps; cleft; gaping; open.

CHAPS
Chaps, n. pl.

Defn: The jaws, or the fleshy parts about them. See Chap. "Open your
chaps again." Shak.

CHAPTER
Chap"ter, n. Etym: [OF. chapitre, F. chapitre, fr. L. capitulum, dim.
of caput head, the chief person or thing, the principal division of a
writing, chapter. See Chief, and cf, Chapiter.]

1. A division of a book or treatise; as, Genesis has fifty chapters.

2. (Eccl.)
(a) An assembly of monks, or of the prebends and other clergymen
connected with a cathedral, conventual, or collegiate church, or of a
diocese, usually presided over by the dean.
(b) A community of canons or canonesses.
(c) A bishop's council.
(d) A business meeting of any religious community.

3. An organized branch of some society or fraternity as of the
Freemasons. Robertson.

4. A meeting of certain organized societies or orders.

5. A chapter house. [R.] Burrill.

6. A decretal epistle. Ayliffe.

7. A location or compartment.
In his bosom! In what chapter of his bosom Shak.
Chapter head, or Chapter heading, that which stands at the head of a
chapter, as a title.
 -- Chapter house, a house or room where a chapter meets, esp. a
cathedral chapter.
 -- The chapter of accidents, chance. Marryat.

CHAPTER
Chap"ter, v. t.

1. To divide into chapters, as a book. Fuller.

2. To correct; to bring to book, i. e., to demand chapter and verse.
[Obs.] Dryden.

CHAPTREL
Chap"trel, n. Etym: [See Chapiter.] (Arch.)

Defn: An impost. [Obs.]

CHAR; CHARR
Char, Charr, n. Etym: [Ir. cear, Gael. ceara, lit., red, blood-
colored, fr. cear blood. So named from its red belly.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the several species of fishes of the genus Salvelinus,
allied to the spotted trout and salmon, inhabiting deep lakes in
mountainous regions in Europe. In the United States, the brook trout
(Salvelinus fontinalis) is sometimes called a char.

CHAR
Char, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A car; a chariot. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHAR
Char, n. Etym: [OE. cherr, char a turning, time, work, AS. cerr,
cyrr, turn, occasion, business, fr. cerran, cyrran, to turn; akin to
OS. kërian, OHG. chëran, G. kehren. Cf. Chore, Ajar.]

Defn: Work done by the day; a single job, or task; a chore. [Written
also chare.] [Eng.]
When thou hast done this chare, I give thee leave To play till
doomsday. Shak.

CHAR; CHARE
Char, Chare, v. t. Etym: [See 3d Char.]

1. To perform; to do; to finish. [Obs.] Nores.
Thet char is chared, as the good wife said when she had hanged her
husband. Old Proverb.

2. To work or hew, as stone. Oxf. Gloss.

CHAR; CHARE
Char, Chare, v. i.

Defn: To work by the day, without being a regularly hired servant; to
do small jobs.

CHAR
Char, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charred; p. pr. & vb. n. Charring.] Etym:
[Prob. the same word as char to perform (see Char, n.), the modern
use coming from charcoal, prop. coal-turned, turned to coal.]

1. To reduce to coal or carbon by exposure to heat; to reduce to
charcoal; to burn to a cinder.

2. To burn slightly or partially; as, to char wood.

CHARA
Cha"ra, n. Etym: [NL., of uncertain origin.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of flowerless plants, having articulated stems and
whorled branches. They flourish in wet places.

CHAR-A-BANC
Char`-a-banc", n.; pl. Chars-a-banc. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A long, light, open vehicle, with benches or seats running
lengthwise.

CHARACT
Char"act, n.

Defn: A distinctive mark; a character; a letter or sign. [Obs.] See
Character.
In all his dressings, characts, titles, forms. Shak.

CHARACTER
Char"ac*ter, n. Etym: [L., an instrument for marking, character, Gr.
caractère.]

1. A distinctive mark; a letter, figure, or symbol.
It were much to be wished that there were throughout the world but
one sort of character for each letter to express it to the eye.
Holder.

2. Style of writing or printing; handwriting; the peculiar form of
letters used by a particular person or people; as, an inscription in
the Runic character.
You know the character to be your brother's Shak.

3. The peculiar quality, or the sum of qualities, by which a person
or a thing is distinguished from others; the stamp impressed by
nature, education, or habit; that which a person or thing really is;
nature; disposition.
The character or that dominion. Milton.
Know well each Ancient's proper character; His fable, subject, scope
in every page; Religion, Country, genius of his Age. Pope.
A man of . . . thoroughly subservient character. Motley.

4. Strength of mind; resolution; independence; individuality; as, he
has a great deal of character.

5. Moral quality; the principles and motives that control the life;
as, a man of character; his character saves him from suspicion.

6. Quality, position, rank, or capacity; quality or conduct with
respect to a certain office or duty; as, in the miserable character
of a slave; in his character as a magistrate; her character as a
daughter.

7. The estimate, individual or general, put upon a person or thing;
reputation; as, a man's character for truth and veracity; to give one
a bad character.
This subterraneous passage is much mended since Seneca gave so bad a
character of it. Addison.

8. A written statement as to behavior, competency, etc., given to a
servant. [Colloq.]

9. A unique or extraordinary individuality; a person characterized by
peculiar or notable traits; a person who illustrates certain phases
of character; as, Randolph was a character; Cæsar is a great
historical character.

10. One of the persons of a drama or novel.

Note: "It would be well if character and reputation were used
distinctively. In truth, character is what a person is; reputation is
what he is supposed to be. Character is in himself, reputation is in
the minds of others. Character is injured by temptations, and by
wrongdoing; reputation by slanders, and libels. Character endures
throughout defamation in every form, but perishes when there is a
voluntary transgression; reputation may last through numerous
transgressions, but be destroyed by a single, and even an unfounded,
accusation or aspersion." Abbott.

CHARACTER
Char"ac*ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charactered.]

1. To engrave; to inscribe. [R.]
These trees shall be my books. And in their barks my thoughts I 'll
character. Shak.

2. To distinguish by particular marks or traits; to describe; to
characterize. [R.] Mitford.

CHARACTERISM
Char"ac*ter*ism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A distinction of character; a characteristic. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

CHARACTERISTIC
Char`ac*ter*is"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. charactéristique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or serving to constitute, the character; showing
the character, or distinctive qualities or traits, of a person or
thing; peculiar; distinctive.
Characteristic clearness of temper. Macaulay.

CHARACTERISTIC
Char`ac*ter*is"tic, n.

1. A distinguishing trait, quality, or property; an element of
character; that which characterized. Pope.
The characteristics of a true critic. Johnson.

2. (Math.)

Defn: The integral part (whether positive or negative) of a
logarithm.

CHARACTERISTICAL
Char`ac*ter*is"tic*al, a.

Defn: Characteristic.

CHARACTERISTICALLY
Char`ac*ter*is"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a characteristic manner; in a way that characterizes.

CHARACTERIZATION
Char`ac*ter*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of characterizing.

CHARACTERIZE
Char"ac*ter*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Characterized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Characterizing.] Etym: [LL. characterizare, Gr. charactériser.]

1. To make distinct and recognizable by peculiar marks or traits; to
make with distinctive features.
European, Asiatic, Chinese, African, and Grecian faces are
Characterized. Arbuthot.

2. To engrave or imprint. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

3. To indicate the character of; to describe.
Under the name of Tamerlane he intended to characterize King William.
Johnson.

4. To be a characteristic of; to make, or express the character of.
The softness and effeminacy which characterize the men of rank in
most countries. W. Irving.

Syn.
 -- To describe; distinguish; mark; designate; style; particularize;
entitle.

CHARACTERLESS
Char"ac*ter*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of any distinguishing quality; without character or
force.

CHARACTERY
Char"ac*ter*y, n.

1. The art or means of characterizing; a system of signs or
characters; symbolism; distinctive mark.
Fairies use flowers for their charactery. Shak.

2. That which is charactered; the meaning. [Obs.]
I will construe to thee All the charactery of my sad brows. Shak.

CHARADE
Cha*rade", n. Etym: [F. charade, cf. Pr. charrada long chat, It
ciarlare to chat, whence E. charlatan.]

Defn: A verbal or acted enigma based upon a word which has two or
more significant syllables or parts, each of which, as well as the
word itself, is to be guessed from the descriptions or
representations.

CHARBOCLE
Char"bo*cle, n.

Defn: Carbuncle. [Written also Charboncle.] [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHARBON
Char"bon, n. Etym: [F., coal, charbon.]

1. (Far.)

Defn: A small black spot or mark remaining in the cavity of the
corner tooth of a horse after the large spot or mark has become
obliterated.

2. A very contagious and fatal disease of sheep, horses, and cattle.
See Maligmant pustule.

CHARCOAL
Char"coal`, n. Etym: [See Char, v. t., to burn or to reduce to coal,
and Coal.]

1. Impure carbon prepared from vegetable or animal substances; esp.,
coal made by charring wood in a kiln, retort, etc., from which air is
excluded. It is used for fuel and in various mechanical, artistic,
and chemical processes.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Finely prepared charcoal in small sticks, used as a drawing
implement. Animal charcoal, a fine charcoal prepared by calcining
bones in a closed vessel; -- used as a filtering agent in sugar
refining, and as an absorbent and disinfectant.
 -- Charcoal blacks, the black pigment, consisting of burnt ivory,
bone, cock, peach stones, and other substances.
 -- Charcoal drawing (Fine Arts), a drawing made with charcoal. See
Charcoal, 2. Until within a few years this material has been used
almost exclusively for preliminary outline, etc., but at present many
finished drawings are made with it.
 -- Charcoal point, a carbon pencil prepared for use un an electric
light apparatus.
 -- Mineral charcoal, a term applied to silky fibrous layers of
charcoal, interlaminated in beds of ordinary bituminous coal; --
known to miners as mother of coal.

CHARD
Chard, n. Etym: [Cf. F. carde esclent thistle.]

1. The tender leaves or leafstalks of the artichoke, white beet,
etc., blanched for table use.

2. A variety of the white beet, which produces large, succulent
leaves and leafstalks.

CHARE
Chare, n.

Defn: A narrow street. [Prov. Eng.]

CHARE
Chare, n. & v.

Defn: A chore; to chore; to do. See Char.

CHARGE
Charge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charged; p. pr. & vb. n. Charging.] Etym:
[OF. chargier, F. charger, fr. LL. carricare, fr. L. carrus wagon.
Cf. Cargo, Caricature, Cark, and see Car.]

1. To lay on or impose, as a load, tax, or burden; to load; to fill.
A carte that charged was with hay. Chaucer.
The charging of children's memories with rules. Locke.

2. To lay on or impose, as a task, duty, or trust; to command,
instruct, or exhort with authority; to enjoin; to urge earnestly; as,
to charge a jury; to charge the clergy of a diocese; to charge an
agent.
Moses . . . charged you to love the Lord your God. Josh. xxii. 5.
Cromwell, I charge thee, fing away ambition. Shak.

3. To lay on, impose, or make subject to or liable for.
When land shal be charged by any lien. Kent.

4. To fix or demand as a prince; as, he charges two dollars a barrelk
for apples.

5. To place something to the account of as a debt; to debit, as to
charge one with goods. Also, to enter upon the debit side of an
account; as, to charge a sum to one.

6. To impute or ascribe; to lay to one's charge.
No more accuse thy pen, but charge the crime On native loth and
negligence of time. Dryden.

7. To accuse; to make a charge or assertion against (a) person or
thing); to lay the responsibility (for something said or done) at the
door of.
If the did that wrong you charge with. Tennyson.

8. To place within or upon any firearm, piece of apparatus or
machinery, the quantity it is intended and fitted to hold or bear; to
load; to fill; as, to charge a gun; to charge an electrical machine,
etc.
Their battering cannon charged to the mouths. Shak.

9. To ornament with or cause to bear; as, to charge an architectural
member with a molding.

10. (Her.)

Defn: To assume as a bearing; as, he charges three roses or; to add
to or represent on; as, he charges his shield with three roses or.

11. To call to account; to challenge. [Obs.]
To charge me to an answer. Shak.

12. To bear down upon; to rush upon; to attack.
Charged our main battle's front. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To intrust; command; exhort; instruct; accuse; impeach; arraign.
See Accuse.

CHARGE
Charge, v. i.

1. To make an onset or rush; as, to charge with fixed bayonets.
Like your heroes of antiquity, he charges in iron. Glanvill.
"Charge for the guns!" he said. Tennyson.

2. To demand a price; as, to charge high for goods.

3. To debit on an account; as, to charge for purchases.

4. To squat on its belly and be still; -- a command given by a
sportsman to a dog.

CHARGE
Charge, n. Etym: [F. charge, fr. charger to load. See Charge, v. t.,
and cf. Cargo, Caricature.]

1. A load or burder laid upon a person or thing.

2. A person or thing commited or intrusted to the care, custody, or
management of another; a trust.

Note: The people of a parish or church are called the charge of the
clergyman who is set over them.

3. Custody or care of any person, thing, or place; office;
responsibility; oversight; obigation; duty.
'Tis a great charge to come under one body's hand. Shak.

4. Heed; care; anxiety; trouble. [Obs.] Chaucer.

5. Harm. [Obs.] Chaucer.

6. An order; a mandate or command; an injunction.
The king gave cherge concerning Absalom. 2. Sam. xviii. 5.

7. An address (esp. an earnest or impressive address) containing
instruction or exhortation; as, the charge of a judge to a jury; the
charge of a bishop to his clergy.

8. An accusation of a wrong of offense; allegation; indictment;
specification of something alleged.
The charge of confounding very different classes of phenomena.
Whewell.

9. Whatever constitutes a burden on property, as rents, taxes, lines,
etc.; costs; expense incurred; -- usually in the plural.

10. The price demanded for a thing or service.

11. An entry or a account of that which is due from one party to
another; that which is debited in a business transaction; as, a
charge in an account book.

12. That quantity, as of ammunition, electricity, ore, fuel, etc.,
which any apparatus, as a gun, battery, furnace, machine, etc., is
intended to receive and fitted to hold, or which is actually in it at
one time

13. The act of rushing upon, or towards, an enemy; a sudden onset or
attack, as of troops, esp. cavalry; hence, the signal for attack; as,
to sound the charge.
Never, in any other war afore, gave the Romans a hotter charge upon
the enemies. Holland.
The charge of the light brigade. Tennyson.

14. A position (of a weapon) fitted for attack; as, to bring a weapon
to the charge.

15. (Far.)

Defn: A soft of plaster or ointment.

16. (Her.)

Defn: A bearing. See Bearing, n., 8.

17. Etym: [Cf. Charre.]

Defn: Thirty-six pigs of lead, each pig weighing about seventy
pounds; -- called also charre.

18. Weight; import; value.
Many suchlike "as's" of great charge. Shak.
Back charge. See under Back, a.
 -- Bursting charge. (a (Mil.) The charge which bursts a shell, etc.
(b (Mining) A small quantity of fine powder to secure the ignition of
a charge of coarse powder in blasting.
 -- Charge and discharge (Equity Practice), the old mode or form of
taking an account before a master in chancery.
 -- Charge sheet, the paper on which are entered at a police station
all arrests and accusations.
 -- To sound the charge, to give the signal for an attack.

Syn.
 -- Care; custody; trust; management; office; expense; cost; price;
assault; attack; onset; injunction; command; order; mandate;
instruction; accusation; indictment.

CHARGEABLE
Charge"a*ble, a.

1. That may be charged, laid, imposed, or imputes; as, a duty
chargeable on iron; a fault chargeable on a man.

2. Subject to be charge or accused; liable or responsible; as,
revenues chargeable with a claim; a man chargeable with murder.

3. Serving to create expense; costly; burdensome.
That we might not be chargeable to any of you. 2. Thess. iii. 8.
For the sculptures, which are elegant, were very chargeable. Evelyn.

CHARGEABLENESS
Charge"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being chargeable or expensive. [Obs.]
Whitelocke.

CHARGEABLY
Charge"a*bly, adv.

Defn: At great cost; expensively. [Obs.]

CHARGEANT
Char"geant, a. Etym: [F. chargeant, fr. charger to load.]

Defn: Burdensome; troublesome. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHARGE D'AFFAIRES
Char`gé" d'af`faires", n.; pl. Chargés d'affaires. Etym: [F.,
"charged with affairs."]

Defn: A diplomatic representative, or minister of an inferior grade,
accredited by the government of one state to the minister of foreign
affairs of another; also, a substitute, ad interim, for an ambassador
or minister plenipotentiary.

CHARGEFUL
Charge"ful, a.

Defn: Costly; expensive. [Obs.]
The fineness of the gold and chargeful fashion. Shak.

CHARGEHOUSE
Charge"house`, n.

Defn: A schoolhouse. [Obs.]

CHARGELESS
Charge"less, a.

Defn: Free from, or with little, charge.

CHARGEOUS
Char"geous, a.

Defn: Burdensome. [Obs.]
I was chargeous to no man. Wyclif, (2 Cor. xi. 9).

CHARGER
Char"ger, n.

1. One who, or that which charges.

2. An instrument for measuring or inserting a charge.

3. A large dish. [Obs.]
Give me here John Baptist's head in a charger. Matt. xiv. 8.

4. A horse for battle or parade. Macaulay.
And furious every charger neighed. Campbell.

CHARGESHIP
Char*ge"ship, n.

Defn: The office of a chargé d'affaires.

CHARILY
Char"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a chary manner; carefully; cautiously; frugally.

CHARINESS
Char"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being chary.

CHARIOT
Char"i*ot, n. Etym: [F. Chariot, from char car. See Car.]

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: A two-wheeled car or vehicle for war, racing, state
processions, etc.
First moved the chariots, after whom the foot. Cowper.

2. A four-wheeled pleasure or state carriage, having one seat. Shak.

CHARIOT
Char"i*ot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charioted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Charioting.]

Defn: To convey in a chariot. Milton.

CHARIOTEE
Char`i*ot*ee", n.

Defn: A light, covered, four-wheeled pleasure carriage with two
seats.

CHARIOTEER
Char`i*ot*eer", n.

1. One who drives a chariot.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation. See Auriga, and Wagones.

CHARISM
Cha"rism, n. Etym: [Gr. .] (Eccl.)

Defn: A miraculously given power, as of healing, speaking foreign
languages without instruction, etc., attributed to some of the early
Christians.

CHARISMATIC
Char`is*mat"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a charism.

CHARITABLE
Char"i*ta*ble, a.Etym: [F. See Charity.]

1. Full of love and good will; benevolent; kind.
Be thy intents wicked or charitable, . . . . . . I will speak to
thee. Shak.

2. Liberal in judging of others; disposed to look on the best side,
and to avoid harsh judgment.

3. Liberal in benefactions to the poor; giving freely; generous;
beneficent.
What charitable men afford to beggars. Shak.

4. Of or pertaining to charity; springing from, or intended for,
charity; relating to almsgiving; elemosynary; as, a charitable
institution.

5. Dictated by kindness; favorable; lenient.
By a charitable construction it may be a sermon. L. Andrews.

Syn.
 -- Kind; beneficent; benevolent; generous; lenient; forgiving;
helpful; liberal; favorable; indulgent.

CHARITABLENESS
Char"i*ta*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being charitable; the exercise of charity.

CHARITABLY
Char"i*ta*bly, adv.

Defn: In a charitable manner.

CHARITY
Char"i*ty, n.; pl. Charities. Etym: [F. charité fr. L. caritas
dearness, high regard, love, from carus dear, costly, loved; asin to
Skr. kam to wish, love, cf. Ir. cara a friend, W. caru to love. Cf.
Caress.]

1. Love; universal benevolence; good will.

Defn:
Now abideth faith, hope, charity, three; but the greatest of these is
charity. 1. Cor. xiii. 13.
They, at least, are little to be envied, in whose hearts the great
charities . . . lie dead. Ruskin.
With malice towards none, with charity for all. Lincoln.

2. Liberality in judging of men and their actions; a disposition
which inclines men to put the best construction on the words and
actions of others.
The highest exercise of charity is charity towards the uncharitable.
Buckminster.

3. Liberality to the poor and the suffering, to benevolent
institutions, or to worthy causes; generosity.
The heathen poet, in commending the charity of Dido to the Trojans,
spake like a Christian. Dryden.

4. Whatever is bestowed gratuitously on the needy or suffering for
their relief; alms; any act of kindness.
She did ill then to refuse her a charity. L'Estrange.

5. A charitable institution, or a gift to create and support such an
institution; as, Lady Margaret's charity.

6. pl. (Law)

Defn: Eleemosynary appointments [grants or devises] including relief
of the poor or friendless, education, religious culture, and public
institutions.
The charities that soothe, and heal, and bless, Are scattered at the
feet of man like flowers. Wordsworth.
Sisters of Charity (R. C. Ch.), a sisterhood of religious women
engaged in works of mercy, esp. in nursing the sick; -- a popular
designation. There are various orders of the Sisters of Charity.

Syn.
 -- Love; benevolence; good will; affection; tenderness; beneficence;
liberality; almsgiving.

CHARIVARI
Cha*ri`va*ri", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A mock serenade of discordant noises, made with kettles, tin
horns, etc., designed to annoy and insult.

Note: It was at first performed before the house of any person of
advanced age who married a second time.

CHARK
Chark, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. charcoal.]

Defn: Charcoal; a cinder. [Obs.] DeFoe.

CHARK
Chark, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charked.]

Defn: To burn to a coal; to char. [Obs.]

CHARLATAN
Char"la*tan, n. Etym: [F. charlatan, fr. It. ciarlatano, fr. ciarlare
to chartter, prate; of imitative origin; cf. It. zirlare to whistle
like a thrush.]

Defn: One who prates much in his own favor, and makes unwarrantable
pretensions; a quack; an impostor; an empiric; a mountebank.

CHARLATANIC; CHARLATANICAL
Char`la*tan"ic, Char`la*tan"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or like a charlatan; making undue pretension; empirical;
pretentious; quackish.
 -- Char`la*tan"ic*al*ly, adv.

CHARLATANISM
Char"la*tan*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. charlatanisme.]

Defn: Charlatanry.

CHARLATANRY
Char"la*tan*ry, n. Etym: [F. charlatanrie, from It. ciarlataneria.
See Charlatan.]

Defn: Undue pretensions to skill; quackery; wheedling; empiricism.

CHARLES'S WAIN
Charles's Wain. Etym: [Charles + wain; cf. AS. Carles w (for wægn),
Sw. karlvagnen, Dan. karlsvogn. See Churl, and Wain.] (Astron.)

Defn: The group of seven stars, commonly called the Dipper, in the
constellation Ursa Major, or Great Bear. See Ursa major, under Ursa.

Note: The name is sometimes also applied to the Constellation.

CHARLIE
Char"lie, n.

1. A familiar nickname or substitute for Charles.

2.  A night watchman; -- an old name.

3.  A short, pointed beard, like that worn by Charles I.

4.  As a proper name, a fox; -- so called in fables and familiar
literature.

CHARLOCK
Char"lock, n. Etym: [AS. cerlic; the latter part perh. fr. AS. leác
leek. Cf. Hemlock.] (Bot.)

Defn: A cruciferous plant (Brassica sinapistrum) with yellow flowers;
wild mustard. It is troublesome in grain fields. Called also
chardock, chardlock, chedlock, and kedlock. Jointed charlock, White
charlock, a troublesome weed (Raphanus Raphanistrum) with straw-
colored, whitish, or purplish flowers, and jointed pods: wild radish.

CHARLOTTE
Char"lotte, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A kind of pie or pudding made by lining a dish with slices of
bread, and filling it with bread soaked in milk, and baked. Charlotte
Russe (, or Charlotte à la russe Etym: [F., lit., Russian charlotte]
(Cookery), a dish composed of custard or whipped cream, inclosed in
sponge cake.

CHARM
Charm, n. Etym: [F. charme, fr. L. carmen song, verse, incantation,
for casmen, akin to Skr. çasman, çasa, a laudatory song, from a root
signifying to praise, to sing.]

1. A melody; a song. [Obs.]
With charm of earliest birds. Milton.
Free liberty to chant our charms at will. Spenser.

2. A word or combination of words sung or spoken in the practice of
magic; a magical combination of words, characters, etc.; an
incantation.
My high charms work. Shak.

3. That which exerts an irresistible power to please and attract;
that which fascinates; any alluring quality.
Charms strike the sight, but merit wins the soul. Pope.
The charm of beauty's powerful glance. Milton.

4. Anything worn for its supposed efficacy to the wearer in averting
ill or securing good fortune.

5. Any small decorative object worn on the person, as a seal, a key,
a silver whistle, or the like. Bunches of charms are often worn at
the watch chain.

Syn. - Spell; incantation; conjuration; enchantment; fascination;
attraction.

CHARM
Charm, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Charming.] Etym:
[Cf. F. charmer. See Charm, n.]

1. To make music upon; to tune. [Obs. & R.]
Here we our slender pipes may safely charm. Spenser.

2. To subdue, control, or summon by incantation or supernatural
influence; to affect by magic.
No witchcraft charm thee! Shak.

3. To subdue or overcome by some secret power, or by that which gives
pleasure; to allay; to soothe.
Music the fiercest grief can charm. Pope.

4. To attract irresistibly; to delight exceedingly; to enchant; to
fascinate.
They, on their mirth and dance Intent, with jocund music charm his
ear. Milton.

5. To protect with, or make invulnerable by, spells, charms, or
supernatural influences; as, a charmed life.
I, in my own woe charmed, Could not find death. Shak.

Syn. - To fascinate; enchant; enrapture; captivate; bewitch; allure;
subdue; delight; entice; transport.

CHARM
Charm, v. i.

1. To use magic arts or occult power; to make use of charms.
The voice of charmers, charming never so wisely. Ps. lviii. 5.

2. To act as, or produce the effect of, a charm; to please greatly;
to be fascinating.

3. To make a musical sound. [Obs.] Milton.

CHARMEL
Char"mel, n. Etym: [Heb.]

Defn: A fruitful field.
Libanus shall be turned into charmel, and charmel shall be esteemed
as a forest. Isa. xxix. 17 (Douay version).

CHARMER
Charm"er, n.

1. One who charms, or has power to charm; one who uses the power of
enchantment; a magician. Deut. xviii. 11.

2. One who delights and attracts the affections.

CHARMERESS
Charm"er*ess, n.

Defn: An enchantress. Chaucer.

CHARMFUL
Charm"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding with charms. "His charmful lyre." Cowley.

CHARMING
Charm"ing, a.

Defn: Pleasing the mind or senses in a high degree; delighting;
fascinating; attractive.
How charming is divine philosophy. Milton.

Syn. - Enchanting; bewitching; captivating; enrapturing; alluring;
fascinating; delightful; pleasurable; graceful; lovely; amiable;
pleasing; winning.
 -- Charm"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Charm"ing*ness, n.

CHARMLESS
Charm"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of charms. Swift.

CHARNECO; CHARNICO
Char"ne*co, Char"ni*co, n.

Defn: A sort of sweet wine. [Obs.] Shak.

CHARNEL
Char"nel, a. Etym: [F. charnel carnal, fleshly, fr. L. carnalis. See
Carnal.]

Defn: Containing the bodies of the dead. "Charnel vaults." Milton.
Charnel house, a tomb, vault, cemetery, or other place where the
bones of the dead are deposited; originally, a place for the bones
thrown up when digging new graves in old burial grounds.

CHARNEL
Char"nel, n.

Defn: A charnel house; a grave; a cemetery.
In their proud charnel of Thermopylæ. Byron.

CHARON
Cha"ron, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Cless. Myth.)

Defn: The son of Erebus and Nox, whose office it was to ferry the
souls of the dead over the Styx, a river of the infernal regions.
Shak.

CHARPIE
Char"pie, n. Etym: [F., properly fem. p. p. of OF. charpir, carpir,
to pluck, fr. L. carpere. Cf. Carpet.] (Med.)

Defn: Straight threads obtained by unraveling old linen cloth; --
used for surgical dressings.

CHARQUI
Char"qui, n. Etym: [Sp. A term used in South America, Central
America, and the Western United States.]

Defn: Jerked beef; beef cut into long strips and dried in the wind
and sun. Darwin.

CHARR
Charr, n.

Defn: See 1st Char.

CHARRAS
Char"ras, n.

Defn: The gum resin of the hemp plant (Cannabis sativa). Same as
Churrus. Balfour.

CHARRE
Charre, n. Etym: [LL. charrus a certain weight.]

Defn: See Charge, n., 17.

CHARRY
Char"ry, a. Etym: [See 6th Char.]

Defn: Pertaining to charcoal, or partaking of its qualities.

CHART
Chart, n. Etym: [A doublet of card: cf. F. charte charter, carte
card. See Card, and cf. Charter.]

1. A sheet of paper, pasteboard, or the like, on which information is
exhibited, esp. when the information is arranged in tabular form; as,
an historical chart.

2. A map; esp., a hydrographic or marine map; a map on which is
projected a portion of water and the land which it surrounds, or by
which it is surrounded, intended especially for the use of seamen;
as, the United States Coast Survey charts; the English Admiralty
charts.

3. A written deed; a charter. Globular chart, a chart constructed on
a globular projection. See under Globular.
 -- Heliographic chart, a map of the sun with its spots.
 -- Mercator's chart, a chart constructed on the principle of
Mercator's projection. See Projection.
 -- Plane chart, a representation of some part of the superficies of
the globe, in which its spherical form is disregarded, the meridians
being drawn parallel to each other, and the parallels of latitude at
equal distances.
 -- Selenographic chart, a map representing the surface of the moon.
 -- Topographic chart, a minute delineation of a limited place or
region.

CHART
Chart, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charted.]

Defn: To lay down in a chart; to map; to delineate; as, to chart a
coast.

CHARTA
Char"ta, n. Etym: [L., leaf of paper. See Chart.] (Law)
(a) Material on which instruments, books, etc., are written;
parchment or paper.
(b) A charter or deed; a writing by which a grant is made. See Magna
Charta.

CHARTACEOUS
Char*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. chartaceus. See Charta.]

Defn: Resembling paper or parchment; of paper-like texture; papery.

CHARTE
Charte, n. Etym: [F. See Chart.]

Defn: The constitution, or fundamental law, of the French monarchy,
as established on the restoration of Louis XVIII., in 1814.

CHARTER
Char"ter, n. Etym: [OF. chartre, F. chartre, charte, fr. L. chartula
a little paper, dim. of charta. See Chart, Card.]

1. A written evidence in due form of things done or granted,
contracts made, etc., between man and man; a deed, or conveyance.
[Archaic]

2. An instrument in writing, from the sovereign power of a state or
country, executed in due form, bestowing rights, franchises, or
privileges.
The king [John, a.d. 1215], with a facility somewhat suspicious,
signed and sealed the charter which was required of him. This famous
deed, commonly called the "Great Charter," either granted or secured
very important liberties and privileges to every order of men in the
kingdom. Hume.

3. An act of a legislative body creating a municipal or other
corporation and defining its powers and privileges. Also, an
instrument in writing from the constituted authorities of an order or
society (as the Freemasons), creating a lodge and defining its
powers.

4. A special privilege, immunity, or exemption.
My mother, Who has a charter to extol her blood, When she does praise
me, grieves me. Shak.

5. (Com.)

Defn: The letting or hiring a vessel by special contract, or the
contract or instrument whereby a vessel is hired or let; as, a ship
is offered for sale or charter. See Charter party, below. Charter
land (O. Eng. Law), land held by charter, or in socage; bookland.
 -- Charter member, one of the original members of a society or
corporation, esp. one named in a charter, or taking part in the first
proceedings under it.
 -- Charter party Etym: [F. chartre partie, or charte partie, a
divided charter; from the practice of cutting the instrument of
contract in two, and giving one part to each of the contractors]
(Com.), a mercantile lease of a vessel; a specific contract by which
the owners of a vessel let the entire vessel, or some principal part
of the vessel, to another person, to be used by the latter in
transportation for his own account, either under their charge or his.
 -- People's Charter (Eng. Hist.), the document which embodied the
demands made by the Chartists, so called, upon the English government
in 1838.

CHARTER
Char"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chartered; p. pr. & vb. n. Chartering.]

1. To establish by charter.

2. To hire or let by charter, as a ship. See Charter party, under
Charter, n.

CHARTERED
Char"tered, a.

1. Granted or established by charter; having, or existing under, a
charter; having a privilege by charter.
The sufficiency of chartered rights. Palfrey.
The air, a chartered libertine. Shak.

2. Hired or let by charter, as a ship.

CHARTERER
Char"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who charters; esp. one who hires a ship for a voyage.

CHARTERHOUSE
Char"ter*house`, n.

Defn: A well known public school and charitable foundation in the
building once used as a Carthusian monastery (Chartreuse) in London.

CHARTERIST
Char"ter*ist, n.

Defn: Same as Chartist.

CHARTISM
Chart"ism, n. Etym: [F. charte charter. Cf. Charte, Chart.]

Defn: The principles of a political party in England (1838-48), which
contended for universal suffrage, the vote by ballot, annual
parliaments, equal electoral districts, and other radical reforms, as
set forth in a document called the People's Charter.

CHARTIST
Chart"ist, n.

Defn: A supporter or partisan of chartism. [Eng.]

CHARTLESS
Chart"less, a.

1. Without a chart; having no guide.

2. Not mapped; uncharted; vague. Barlow.

CHARTOGRAPHER; CHARTOGRAPHIC; CHARTOGRAPHY
Char*tog"ra*pher, n., Char`to*graph"ic (, a., Char*tog"ra*phy (, n.,
etc.

Defn: Same as Cartographer, Cartographic, Cartography, etc.

CHARTOMANCY
Char"to*man`cy, n. Etym: [L. charta paper + -mancy. Cf. Cartomancy.]

Defn: Divination by written paper or by cards.

CHARTOMETER
Char*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Chart + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring charts or maps.

CHARTREUSE
Char`treuse", n. Etym: [F.]

1. A Carthusian monastery; esp. La Grande Chartreuse, mother house of
the order, in the mountains near Grenoble, France.

2. An alcoholic cordial, distilled from aromatic herbs; -- made at La
Grande Chartreuse.

CHARTREUX
Char`treux", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A Carthusian.

CHARTULARY
Char"tu*la*ry, n.

Defn: See Cartulary.

CHARWOMAN
Char"wom`an, n.; pl. Charwomen. Etym: [See Char a chore.]

Defn: A woman hired for odd work or for single days.

CHARY
Char"y, a. Etym: [AS. cearig careful, fr. cearu care. See Care.]

Defn: Careful; wary; cautious; not rash, reckless, or spendthrift;
saving; frugal.
His rising reputation made him more chary of his fame. Jeffrey.

CHARYBDIS
Cha*ryb"dis, n. Etym: [L., Gr.

Defn: A dangerous whirlpool on the coast of Sicily opposite Scylla on
the Italian coast. It is personified as a female monster. See Scylla.

CHASABLE
Chas"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being chased; fit for hunting. Gower.

CHASE
Chase, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chased; p. pr. & vb. n. Chasing.] Etym:
[OF. chacier, F. chasser, fr. (assumed) LL. captiare, fr. L. captare
to strive to seize. See Catch.]

1. To pursue for the purpose of killing or taking, as an enemy, or
game; to hunt.
We are those which chased you from the field. Shak.
Philologists, who chase A panting syllable through time and place.
Cowper.

2. To follow as if to catch; to pursue; to compel to move on; to
drive by following; to cause to fly; -- often with away or off; as,
to chase the hens away.
Chased by their brother's endless malice from prince to prince and
from place to place. Knolles.

3. To pursue eagerly, as hunters pursue game.
Chasing each other merrily. Tennyson.

CHASE
Chase, v. i.

Defn: To give chase; to hunt; as, to chase around after a doctor.
[Colloq.]

CHASE
Chase, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chasse, fr. chasser. See Chase, v.]

1. Vehement pursuit for the purpose of killing or capturing, as of an
enemy, or game; an earnest seeking after any object greatly desired;
the act or habit of hunting; a hunt. "This mad chase of fame."
Dryden.
You see this chase is hotly followed. Shak.

2. That which is pursued or hunted.
Nay, Warwick, seek thee out some other chase, For I myself must hunt
this deer to death. Shak.

3. An open hunting ground to which game resorts, and which is private
properly, thus differing from a forest, which is not private
property, and from a park, which is inclosed. Sometimes written
chace. [Eng.]

4. (Court Tennis)

Defn: A division of the floor of a gallery, marked by a figure or
otherwise; the spot where a ball falls, and between which and the
dedans the adversary must drive his ball in order to gain a point.
Chase gun (Naut.), a cannon placed at the bow or stern of an armed
vessel, and used when pursuing an enemy, or in defending the vessel
when pursued.
 -- Chase port (Naut.), a porthole from which a chase gun is fired.
 -- Stern chase (Naut.), a chase in which the pursuing vessel follows
directly in the wake of the vessel pursued.

CHASE
Chase, n. Etym: [F. cháse, fr. L. capsa box, case. See Case a box.]
(Print.)

1. A rectangular iron frame in which pages or columns of type are
imposed.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: The part of a cannon from the reënforce or the trunnions to the
swell of the muzzle. See Cannon.

3. A groove, or channel, as in the face of a wall; a trench, as for
the reception of drain tile.

4. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A kind of joint by which an overlap joint is changed to a flush
joint, by means of a gradually deepening rabbet, as at the ends of
clinker-built boats.

CHASE
Chase, v. t. Etym: [A contraction of enchase.]

1. To ornament (a surface of metal) by embossing, cutting away parts,
and the like.

2. To cut, so as to make a screw thread.

CHASER
Chas"er, n.

1. One who or that which chases; a pursuer; a driver; a hunter.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Same as Chase gun, esp. in terms bow chaser and stern chaser.
See under Bow, Stern.

CHASER
Chas"er, n.

1. One who chases or engraves. See 5th Chase, and Enchase.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: A tool with several points, used for cutting or finishing screw
threads, either external or internal, on work revolving in a lathe.

CHASIBLE
Chas"i*ble, n.

Defn: See Chasuble.

CHASING
Chas"ing, n.

Defn: The art of ornamenting metal by means of chasing tools; also, a
piece of ornamental work produced in this way.

CHASM
Chasm, n. Etym: [L. chasma, Gr. Chaos.]

1. A deep opening made by disruption, as a breach in the earth or a
rock; a yawning abyss; a cleft; a fissure.
That deep, romantic chasm which slanted down the green hill.
Coleridge.

2. A void space; a gap or break, as in ranks of men.
Memory . . . fills up the chasms of thought. Addison.

CHASMED
Chasmed, a.

Defn: Having gaps or a chasm. [R.]

CHASMY
Chas"my, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chasm; abounding in chasms. Carlyle.
They cross the chasmy torrent's foam-lit bed. Wordsworth.

CHASSE
Chas`se", n. Etym: [F., fr. chassé, p. p. of chasser to chase.]

Defn: A movement in dancing, as across or to the right or left.

CHASSE
Chas`se", v. i. (Dancing)

Defn: To make the movement called chassé; as, all chassé; chassé to
the right or left.

CHASSE-CAFE
Chasse`-ca`fé", n. [F., fr. chasser to chase + café coffee.]

Defn: See Chasse, n., above.

CHASSELAS
Chas"se*las, n. Etym: [F., from the village of Chasselas.]

Defn: A white grape, esteemed for the table.

CHASSE-MAREE
Chasse`-ma`rée", n. [F., fr. chasser to chase + marée tide.] (Naut.)

Defn: A French coasting lugger.

CHASSEPOT
Chasse`pot", n. Etym: [From the French inventor, A. A. Chassepot.]
(Mil.)

Defn: A kind of breechloading, center-fire rifle, or improved needle
gun.

CHASSEUR
Chas`seur", n. Etym: [F., a huntsman. See Chase to pursue.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: One of a body of light troops, cavalry or infantry, trained for
rapid movements.

2. An attendant upon persons of rank or wealth, wearing a plume and
sword.
The great chasseur who had announced her arrival. W. Irving.

CHASSIS
Chas"sis, n. Etym: [F. ch.] (Mil.)

Defn: A traversing base frame, or movable railway, along which the
carriage of a barbette or casemate gum moves backward and forward.
[See Gun carriage.]

CHAST
Chast, v. t.

Defn: to chasten. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHASTE
Chaste, a. Etym: [F. chaste, from L. castus pure, chaste; cf. Gr. to
purify.]

1. Pure from unlawful sexual intercourse; virtuous; continent. "As
chaste as Diana." Shak.
Whose bed is undefiled and chaste pronounced. Milton.

2. Pure in thought and act; innocent; free from lewdness and
obscenity, or indecency in act or speech; modest; as, a chaste mind;
chaste eyes.

3. Pure in design and expression; correct; free from barbarisms or
vulgarisms; refined; simple; as, a chaste style in composition or
art.
That great model of chaste, lofty, and eloquence, the Book of Common
Prayer. Macaulay.

4. Unmarried. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Undefiled; pure; virtuous; continent; immaculate; spotless.
Chaste tree. Same as Agnus castus.

CHASTELY
Chaste"ly, adv.

Defn: In a chaste manner; with purity.

CHASTEN
Chas"ten, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chastened; p. pr. & vb. n. Chastening.]
Etym: [OE. chastien, OF. Chastier, F. Ch, fr. L. castigare to punish,
chastise; castus pure + agere to lead, drive. See Chaste, Act, and
cf. Castigate, Chastise.]

1. To correct by punishment; to inflict pain upon the purpose of
reclaiming; to discipline; as, to chasten a son with a rod.
For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth. Heb. xii. 6.

2. To purify from errors or faults; to refine.
They [classics] chasten and enlarge the mind, and excite to noble
actions. Layard.

Syn.
 -- To chastise; punish; correct; discipline; castigate; afflict;
subdue; purify. To Chasten, Punish, Chastise. To chasten is to
subject to affliction or trouble, in order to produce a general
change for the better in life or character. To punish is to inflict
penalty for violation of law, disobedience to authority, or
intentional wrongdoing. To chastise is to punish a particular
offense, as with stripes, especially with the hope that suffering or
disgrace may prevent a repetition of faults.

CHASTENED
Chas"tened, a.

Defn: Corrected; disciplined; refined; purified; toned down. Sir. W.
Scott.
Of such a finished chastened purity. Tennyson.

CHASTENER
Chas"ten*er, n.

Defn: One who chastens.

CHASTENESS
Chaste"ness, n.

1. Chastity; purity.

2. (Literature & Art)

Defn: Freedom from all that is meretricious, gaundy, or affected; as,
chasteness of design.

CHASTISABLE
Chas*tis"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable or deserving of chastisement; punishable. Sherwood.

CHASTISE
Chas*tise", v. t. [imp & p. p. Chastised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chastising.] Etym: [OE. chastisen; chastien + ending -isen + modern -
ise, ize, L. izare, G. Chasten.]

1. To inflict pain upon, by means of stripes, or in any other manner,
for the purpose of punishment or reformation; to punish, as with
stripes.
How fine my master is! I am afraid He will chastise me. Shak.
I am glad to see the vanity or envy of the canting chemists thus
discovered and chastised. Boyle.

2. To reduce to order or obedience; to correct or purify; to free
from faults or excesses.
The gay, social sense, by decency chastised. Thomson.

Syn.
 -- See Chasten.

CHASTISEMENT
Chas"tise*ment, n. Etym: [From Chastise.]

Defn: The act of chastising; pain inflicted for punishment and
correction; discipline; punishment.
Shall I so much dishonor my fair stars, On equal terms to give him
chastesement! Shak.
I have borne chastisement; I will not offend any more. Job xxxiv. 31.

CHASTISER
Chas*tis"er, n.

Defn: One who chastises; a punisher; a corrector. Jer. Taylor.
The chastiser of the rich. Burke.

CHASTITY
Chas"ti*ty, n. Etym: [F. chasteté, fr. L. castitas, fr. castus. See
Chaste.]

1. The state of being chaste; purity of body; freedom from unlawful
sexual intercourse.
She . . . hath preserved her spotless chastity. T. Carew.

2. Moral purity.
So dear to heaven is saintly chastity, That, when a soul is found
sicerely so A thousand liveried angels lackey her. Milton.

3. The unmarried life; celibacy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

4. (Literature & Art)

Defn: Chasteness.

CHASUBLE
Chas"u*ble, n. Etym: [F. chasuble, LL. casubula, cassibula, casula, a
hooded garment, covering the person like a little house; cf. It.
casupola, casipola, cottage, dim of L. casa cottage.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The outer vestment worn by the priest in saying Mass,
consisting, in the Roman Catholic Church, of a broad, flat, back
piece, and a narrower front piece, the two connected over the
shoulders only. The back has usually a large cross, the front an
upright bar or pillar, designed to be emblematical of Christ's
sufferings. In the Greek Church the chasuble is a large round mantle.
[Written also chasible, and chesible.]

CHAT
Chat, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chatted; p. pr. & vb. n. Chatting.] Etym:
[From Chatter. *22.]

Defn: To talk in a light and familiar manner; to converse without
form or ceremony; to gossip. Shak.
To chat a while on their adventures. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To talk; chatter; gossip; converse.

CHAT
Chat, v. t.

Defn: To talk of. [Obs.]

CHAT
Chat, n.

1. Light, familiar talk; conversation; gossip.
Snuff, or fan, supply each pause of chat, With singing, laughing,
ogling, and all that. Pope.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of the genus Icteria, allied to the warblers, in
America. The best known species are the yelow-breasted chat (I.
viridis), and the long chat (I. longicauda). In Europe the name is
given to several birds of the family Saxicolidæ, as the stonechat,
and whinchat. Bush chat. (Zoöl.) See under Bush.

CHAT
Chat, n.

1. A twig, cone, or little branch. See Chit.

2. pl. (Mining)

Defn: Small stones with ore. Chat potatoes, small potatoes, such as
are given to swine. [Local.]

CHATEAU
Cha`teau", n.; pl. Chateux. Etym: [F. château a castle. See Castle.]

1. A castle or a fortress in France.

2. A manor house or residence of the lord of the manor; a gentleman's
country seat; also, particularly, a royal residence; as, the chateau
of the Louvre; the chateau of the Luxembourg.

Note: The distinctive, French term for a fortified caste of the
middle ages is château-fort. Chateau en Espagne ( Etym: [F.], a
castle in Spain, that is, a castle in the air, Spain being the region
of romance.

CHATELAINE
Chat"e*laine, n. Etym: [F. châtelaine the wife of a castellan, the
mistress of a chateau, a chatelaine chain.]

Defn: An ornamental hook, or brooch worn by a lady at her waist, and
having a short chain or chains attached for a watch, keys, trinkets,
etc. Also used adjectively; as, a chatelaine chain.

CHATELET
Chat"e*let, n. Etym: [F. châtelet, dim. of château. See Castle.]

Defn: A little castle.

CHATELLANY
Chat"el*la*ny, n. Etym: [F. châtellenie.]

Defn: Same as Castellany.

CHATI
Cha`ti", n. Etym: [Cf. F. chat cat.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small South American species of tiger cat (Felis mitis).

CHATOYANT
Cha*toy"ant, a. Etym: [F., p. pr. of chatoyer to be chatoyant, fr.
chat cat.] (Min.)

Defn: Having a changeable, varying luster, or color, like that of a
changeable silk, or oa a cat's eye in the dark.

CHATOYANT
Cha*toy"ant, n. (Min.)

Defn: A hard stone, as the cat's-eye, which presents on a polished
surface, and in the interior, an undulating or wary light.

CHATOYMENT
Cha*toy"ment, n. Etym: [F. chatoiement. See Chatoyant.]

Defn: Changeableness of color, as in a mineral; play of colors.
Cleaceland.

CHATTEL
Chat"tel, n. Etym: [OF. chatel; another form of catel. See Cattle.]
(Law)

Defn: Any item of movable or immovable property except the freehold,
or the things which are parcel of it. It is a more extensive term
than goods or effects.

Note: Chattels are personal or real: personal are such as are
movable, as goods, plate, money; real are such rights in land as are
less than a freehold, as leases, mortgages, growing corn, etc.
Chattel mortgage (Law), a mortgage on personal property, as
distinguished from one on real property.

CHATTELISM
Chat"tel*ism, n.

Defn: The act or condition of holding chattels; the state of being a
chattel.

CHATTER
Chat"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chattered; p. pr. & vb. n. Chattering.]
Etym: [Of imitative origin. Cf. Chat, v. i. Chitter.]

1. To utter sounds which somewhat resemble language, but are
inarticulate and indistinct.
The jaw makes answer, as the magpie chatters. Wordsworth.

2. To talk idly, carelessly, or with undue rapidity; to jabber; to
prate.
To tame a shrew, and charm her chattering tongue. Shak.

3. To make a noise by rapid collisions.
With chattering teeth, and bristling hair upright. Dryden.

CHATTER
Chat"ter, v. t.

Defn: To utter rapidly, idly, or indistinctly.
Begin his witless note apace to chatter. Spenser.

CHATTER
Chat"ter, n.

1. Sounds like those of a magpie or monkey; idle talk; rapid,
thoughtless talk; jabber; prattle.
Your words are but idle and empty chatter. Longfellow.

2. Noise made by collision of the teeth, as in shivering.

CHATTERATION
Chat*ter*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act or habit of chattering. [Colloq.]

CHATTERER
Chat"ter*er, n.

1. A prater; an idle talker.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of the family Ampelidæ -- so called from its monotonous
note. The Bohemion chatterer (Ampelis garrulus) inhabits the arctic
regions of both continents. In America the cedar bird is a more
common species. See Bohemian chatterer, and Cedar bird.

CHATTERING
Chat"ter*ing, n.

Defn: The act or habit of talking idly or rapidly, or of making
inarticulate sounds; the sounds so made; noise made by the collision
of the teeth; chatter.

CHATTER MARK
Chat"ter mark`.
 (a) (Mach.) One of the fine undulations or ripples which are formed
on the surface of work by a cutting tool which chatters.
 (b) (Geol.) A short crack on a rock surface planed smooth by a
glacier.

CHATTINESS
Chat"ti*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being chatty, or of talking easily and
pleasantly.

CHATTY
Chat"ty, a.

Defn: Given to light, familiar talk; talkative. Lady M. W. Montagu.

CHATTY
Chat"ty, n. Etym: [Tamil shati.]

Defn: A porous earthen pot used in India for cooling water, etc.

CHATWOOD
Chat"wood`, n. Etym: [Chat a little stick + wood.]

Defn: Little sticks; twigs for burning; fuel. Johnson.

CHAUD-MEDLEY
Chaud"-med`ley, n. Etym: [F. chaude mêlée; chaud hot + mêler
(Formerly sometimes spelt medler) to mingle.] (Law)

Defn: The killing of a person in an affray, in the heat of blood, and
while under the influence of passion, thus distinguished from chance-
medley or killing in self-defense, or in a casual affray. Burrill.

CHAUDRON
Chau"dron, n.

Defn: See Chawdron. [Obs.]

CHAUFFER
Chauf"fer, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chauffoir a kind of stone, fr. chauffer
to heat. See Chafe.] (Chem.)

Defn: A table stove or small furnace, usually a cylindrical box of
sheet iron, with a grate at the bottem, and an open top.

CHAUFFEUR
Chauf`feur", n. [F., lit., stoker.]

1.  [pl.] (F. Hist.)

Defn: Brigands in bands, who, about 1793, pillaged, burned, and
killed in parts of France; -- so called because they used to burn the
feet of their victims to extort money.

2.  One who manages the running of an automobile; esp., the paid
operator of a motor vehicle.

CHAUFFEUSE
Chauf`feuse", n. [F., fem. of chauffeur.]

Defn: A woman chauffeur.

CHAULDRON
Chaul"dron, n.

Defn: See Chawdron. [Obs.]

CHAUN
Chaun, n.

Defn: A gap. [Obs.] Colgrave.

CHAUN
Chaun, v. t. & i.

Defn: To open; to yawn. [Obs.]
O, chaun thy breast. Marston.

CHAUNT
Chaunt, n. & v.

Defn: See Chant.

CHAUNTER
Chaunt"er, n.

1. A street seller of ballads and other broadsides. [Slang, Eng.]

2. A deceitful, tricky dealer or horse jockey. [Colloq.]
He was a horse chaunter; he's a leg now. Dickens.

3. The flute of a bagpipe. See Chanter, n., 3.

CHAUNTERIE
Chaunt"er*ie, n.

Defn: See Chantry. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHAUS
Cha"us, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: a lynxlike animal of Asia and Africa (Lynx Lybicus).

CHAUSSES
Chausses, n. pl. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The garment for the legs and feet and for the body below the
waist, worn in Europe throughout the Middle Ages; applied also to the
armor for the same parts, when fixible, as of chain mail.

CHAUSSURE
Chaus`sure", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A foot covering of any kind.

CHAUTAUQUA SYSTEM OF EDUCATION
Chau*tau"qua sys"tem of education.

Defn: The system of home study established in connection with the
summer schools assembled at Chautauqua, N. Y., by the Methodist
Episcopal bishop, J. H. Vincent.

CHAUVINISM
Chau"vin*ism, n. Etym: [F. chauvinisme, from Chauvin, a character
represented as making grotesque and threatening displays of his
attachment to his fallen chief, Napoleon I., in 1815.]

Defn: Blind and absurd devotion to a fallen leader or an obsolete
cause; hence, absurdly vainglorious or exaggerated patriotism.
 -- Chau"vin*ist, n.
 -- Chau`vin*is"tic (, a.

Note: To have a generous belief in the greatness of one's country is
not chauvinism. It is the character of the latter quality to be
wildly extravagant, to be fretful and childish and silly, to resent a
doubt as an insult, and to offend by its very frankness. Prof. H.
Tuttle.

CHAVENDER
Chav"en*der, n. Etym: [Cf. Cheven.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The chub. Walton.

CHAW
Chaw, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chawed; p. pr. & vb. n. Chawing.] Etym:
[See Chew.]

1. To grind with the teeth; to masticate, as food in eating; to chew,
as the cud; to champ, as the bit.
The trampling steed, with gold and purple trapped, Chawing the foamy
bit, there fiercely stood. Surrey.

2. To ruminate in thought; to consider; to keep the mind working
upon; to brood over. Dryden.

Note: A word formerly in good use, but now regarded as vulgar.

CHAW
Chaw, n. Etym: [See Chaw, v. t.]

1. As much as is put in the mouth at once; a chew; a quid. [Law]

2. Etym: [Cf. Jaw.]

Defn: The jaw. [Obs.] Spenser. Chaw bacon, a rustic; a bumpkin; a
lout. (Law) -- Chaw tooth, a grinder. (Law)

CHAWDRON
Chaw"dron, n. Etym: [OF. chaudun, caudun, caldun; cf. G. kaldaunen
guts, bowels, LL. calduna intestine, W. coluddyn gut, dim. of coludd
bowels.]

Defn: Entrails. [Obs.] [Written also chaudron, chauldron.] Shak.

CHAY ROOT
Chay" root`. Etym: [Tamil shaya.]

Defn: The root of the Oldenlandia umbellata, native in India, which
yieds a durable red dyestuff. [Written also choy root.]

CHAZY EPOCH
Cha*zy" ep"och. (Geol.)

Defn: An epoch at the close of the Canadian period of the American
Lower Silurian system; -- so named from a township in Clinton Co.,
New York. See the Diagram under Geology.

CHEAP
Cheap, n. Etym: [AS. ceáp bargain, sale, price; akin to D. Koop
purchase, G. Kauf, ICel. kaup bargain. Cf. Cheapen, Chapman, Chaffer,
Cope, v. i.]

Defn: A bargain; a purchase; cheapness. [Obs.]
The sack that thou hast drunk me would have bought me lights as good
cheap at the dearest chandler's in Europe. Shak.

CHEAP
Cheap, a. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. "good cheap": a good purchase or
bargain; cf. F. bon marché, à bon marché. See Cheap, n., Cheapen.]

1. Having a low price in market; of small cost or price, as compared
with the usual price or the real value.
Where there are a great sellers to a few buyers, there the thing to
be sold will be cheap. Locke.

2. Of comparatively small value; common; mean.
You grow cheap in every subject's eye. Dryden.
Dog cheap, very cheap, -- a phrase formed probably by the
catachrestical transposition of good cheap. [Colloq.]

CHEAP
Cheap, adv.

Defn: Cheaply. Milton.

CHEAP
Cheap, v. i.

Defn: To buy; to bargain. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHEAPEN
Cheap"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cheapened; p. pr. & vb. n. Cheapening.]
Etym: [OE. cheapien, chepen, to trade, buy, sell, AS. ceápian; akin
to D. koopen to buy, G. kaufen, Icel. kaupa, Goth. kaupon to trade.
Cf. Chap to bargain.]

1. To ask the price of; to bid, bargain, or chaffer for. [Obsoles.]
Pretend to cheapen goods, but nothing buy. Swift.

2. Etym: [Cf. Cheap, a.]

Defn: To beat down the price of; to lessen the value of; to
depreciate. Pope.
My proffered love has cheapened me. Dryden.

CHEAPENER
Cheap"en*er, n.

Defn: One who cheapens.

CHEAP-JACK; CHEAP-JOHN
Cheap"-jack`, Cheap"-john`, n.

Defn: A seller of low-priced or second goods; a hawker.

CHEAPLY
Cheap"ly, adv.

Defn: At a small price; at a low value; in a common or inferior
manner.

CHEAPNESS
Cheap"ness, n.

Defn: Lowness in price, considering the usual price, or real value.

CHEAR
Chear, n. & v. [Obs.]

Defn: See Cheer.

CHEAT
Cheat, n. Etym: [rob. an abbrevation of escheat, lands or tenements
that fall to a lord or to the state by forfeiture, or by the death of
the tenant without heirs; the meaning being explained by the frauds,
real or supposed, that were resorted to in procuring escheats. See
Escheat.]

1. An act of deception or fraud; that which is the means of fraud or
deception; a fraud; a trick; imposition; imposture.
When I consider life, 'tis all a cheat. Dryden.

2. One who cheats or deceives; an impostor; a deceiver; a cheater.
Airy wonders, which cheats interpret. Johnson

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A troublesome grass, growing as a weed in grain fields; --
called also chess. See Chess.

4. (Law)

Defn: The obtaining of property from another by an intentional active
distortion of the truth.

Note: When cheats are effected by deceitful or illegal symbols or
tokens which may affect the public at large and against which common
prudence could not have guarded, they are indictable at common law.
Wharton.

Syn.
 -- Deception; imposture; fraud; delusion; artifice; trick; swindle;
deceit; guile; finesse; stratagem.

CHEAT
Cheat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cheated; p. pr. & vb. n. Cheating.] Etym:
[See CHeat, n., Escheat.]

1. To deceive and defraud; to impose upon; to trick; to swindle.
I am subject to a tyrant, a sorcerer, that by his cunning hath
cheated me of this island. Shak.

2. To beguile. Sir W. Scott.
To cheat winter of its dreariness. W. Irving.

Syn.
 -- To trick; cozen; gull; chouse; fool; outwit; circumvent; beguile;
mislead; dupe; swindle; defraud; overreach; delude; hoodwink;
deceive; bamboozle.

CHEAT
Cheat, v. i.

Defn: To practice fraud or trickery; as, to cheat at cards.

CHEAT
Cheat, n. Etym: [Perh. from OF. cheté goods, chattels.]

Defn: Wheat, or bread made from wheat. [Obs.] Drayton.
Their purest cheat, Thrice bolted, kneaded, and subdued in paste.
Chapman.

CHEATABLE
Cheat"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being cheated.

CHEATABLENESS
Cheat"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Capability of being cheated.

CHEATER
Cheat"er, n.

1. One who cheats.

2. An escheator. [R.] Shak.

CHEBACCO
Che*bac"co, n. Etym: [From Chebacco, the former name of Essex, a town
in Massachusetts where such vessels were built.] (Naut.)

Defn: A narrow-sterned boat formerly much used in the Newfoundland
fisheries; -- called also pinkstern and chebec. Bartlett.

CHEBEC
Che"bec, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Chebacco.

CHEBEC
Che*bec", n. Etym: [Named from its note.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small American bird (Empidonax minimus); the least
flycatcher.

CHECK
Check, n. Etym: [OE. chek, OF. eschec, F. échec, a stop, hindrance,
orig. check in the game of chess, pl. échecs chess, through AR., fr.
Pers. shah king. See Shah, and cf. Checkmate, Chess, Checker.]

1. (Chess)

Defn: A word of warning denoting that the king is in danger; such a
menace of a player's king by an adversary's move as would, if it were
any other piece, expose it to immediate capture. A king so menaced is
said to be in check, and must be made safe at the next move.

2. A condition of interrupted or impeded progress; arrest; stop;
delay; as, to hold an enemy in check.
Which gave a remarkable check to the first progress of Christianity.
Addison.
No check, no stay, this streamlet fears. Wordsworth.

3. Whatever arrests progress, or limits action; an obstacle, guard,
restraint, or rebuff.
Useful check upon the administration of government. Washington.
A man whom no check could abash. Macaulay.

4. A mark, certificate, or token, by which, errors may be prevented,
or a thing or person may be identified; as, checks placed against
items in an account; a check given for baggage; a return check on a
railroad.

5. A written order directing a bank or banker to pay money as therein
stated. See Bank check, below.

6. A woven or painted design in squares resembling the patten of a
checkerboard; one of the squares of such a design; also, cloth having
such a figure.

7. (Falconry)

Defn: The forsaking by a hawk of its proper game to follow other
birds.

8. Small chick or crack. Bank check, a written order on a banker or
broker to pay money in his keeping belonging to the signer.
 -- Check book, a book containing blank forms for checks upon a bank.
 -- Check hook, a hook on the saddle of a harness, over which a
checkrein is looped.
 -- Check list, a list or catalogue by which things may be verified,
or on which they may be checked.
 -- Check nut (Mech.), a secondary nut, screwing down upon the
primary nut to secure it. Knight.
 -- Check valve (Mech.), a valve in the feed pipe of a boiler to
prevent the return of the feed water.
 -- To take check, to take offense. [Obs.] Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Hindrance; setback; interruption; obstruction; reprimand;
censure; rebuke; reproof; repulse; rebuff; tally; counterfoil;
counterbalance; ticket; draft.

CHECK
Check, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Checked; p. pr. & vb. n. checking.]

1. (Chess)

Defn: To make a move which puts an adversary's piece, esp. his king,
in check; to put in check.

2. To put a sudden restraint upon; to stop temporarily; to hinder; to
repress; to curb.
So many clogs to check and retard the headlong course of violence and
oppression. Burke.

3. To verify, to guard, to make secure, by means of a mark, token, or
other check; to distinguish by a check; to put a mark against (an
item) after comparing with an original or a counterpart in order to
secure accuracy; as, to check an account; to check baggage.

4. To chide, rebuke, or reprove.
The good king, his master, will check him for it. Shak.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: To slack or ease off, as a brace which is too stiffly extended.

6. To make checks or chinks in; to cause to crack; as, the sun checks
timber.

Syn.
 -- To restrain; curb; bridle; repress; control; hinder; impede;
obstruct; interrupt; tally; rebuke; reprove; rebuff.

CHECK
Check, v. i.

Defn: To make a stop; to pause; -- with at.
The mind, once jaded by an attempt above its power, either is
disabled for the future, or else checks at any vigorous undertaking
ever after. Locke.

2. To clash or interfere. [R.] Bacon.

3. To act as a curb or restraint.
It [his presence] checks too strong upon me. Dryden.

4. To crack or gape open, as wood in drying; or to crack in small
checks, as varnish, paint, etc.

5. (Falconry)

Defn: To turn, when in pursuit of proper game, and fly after other
birds.
And like the haggard, check at every feather That comes before his
eye. Shak.

CHECK
Check, a.

Defn: Checkered; designed in checks.

CHECKAGE
Check"age, n.

1. The act of checking; as, the checkage of a name or of an item in a
list.

2. The items, or the amount, to which attention is called by a check
or checks.

CHECKER
Check"er, n. Etym: [From Check, v. t.]

Defn: One who checks.

CHECKER
Check"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Checkered; p. pr. & vb. n. Checkering.]
Etym: [From OF. eschequier a chessboard, F. échiquier. See Check, n.,
and cf. 3d Checker.]

1. To mark with small squares like a checkerboard, as by crossing
stripes of different colors.

2. To variegate or diversify with different qualities, color, scenes,
or events; esp., to subject to frequent alternations of prosterity
and adversity.
Our minds are, as it were, checkered with truth and falsehood.
Addison.

CHECKER
Check"er, n. Etym: [OF. eschequier. See Checker, v. t.]

1. A piece in the game of draughts or checkers.

2. A pattern in checks; a single check.

3. Checkerwork.

Note: This word is also written chequer.

CHECKERBERRY
Check"er*ber`ry, n.; pl. Checkerberries. (Bot.)

Defn: A spicy plant and its bright red berry; the wintergreen
(Gaultheria procumbens). Also incorrectly applied to the partridge
berry (Mitchella repens).

CHECKERBOARD
Check"er*board, n.

Defn: A board with sixty-four squares of alternate color, used for
playing checkers or draughts.

CHECKERED
Check"ered, a.

1. Marked with alternate squares or checks of different color or
material.
Dancing in the checkered shade. Milton.

2. Diversified or variegated in a marked manner, as in appearance,
character, circumstances, etc.
This checkered narrative. Macaulay.

CHECKERS
Check"ers, n. pl. Etym: [See Checher, v.]

Defn: A game, called also daughts, played on a checkerboard by two
persons, each having twelve men (counters or checkers) which are
moved diagonally. The game is ended when either of the players has
lost all his men, or can not move them.

CHECKERWORK
Check"er*work`, n.

1. Work consisting of or showing checkers varied alternately as to
colors or materials.

2. Any aggregate of varied vicissitudes.
How strange a checkerwork of Providence is the life of man. De Foe.

CHECKLATON
Check"la*ton, n.

1. Ciclatoun. [Obs.]

2. Gilded leather. [Obs.] Spenser.

CHECKLESS
Check"less, a.

Defn: That can not be checked or restrained.

CHECKMATE
Check"mate, n. Etym: [F. échec et mat, fr. Per. shah mat ceckmate,
lit., the king is dead, fr. Ar. mata he died, is dead. The king, when
made prisoner, or checkmated, is assumed to be dead, and the game is
finished. See Chess.]

1. The position in the game of chess when a king is in check and
cannot be released, -- which ends the game.

2. A complete check; utter defeat or overthrow.

CHECKMATE
Check"mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Checkmated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Checkmating.]

1. (Chess)

Defn: To check (an adversary's king) in such a manner that escape in
impossible; to defeat (an adversary) by putting his king in check
from which there is no escape.

2. To defeat completely; to terminate; to thwart.
To checkmate and control my just demands. Ford.

CHECKREIN
Check"rein`, n.

1. A short rein looped over the check hook to prevent a horse from
lowering his head; -- called also a bearing rein.

2. A branch rein connecting the driving rein of one horse of a span
or pair with the bit of the other horse.

CHECKROLL
Check"roll`, n.

Defn: A list of servants in a household; -- called also chequer roll.

CHECKSTRING
Check"string`, n.

Defn: A cord by which a person in a carriage or horse car may signal
to the driver.

CHECKWORK
Check"work, n.

Defn: Anything made so as to form alternate squares lke those of a
checkerboard.

CHECKY
Check"y, a. (Her.)

Defn: Divided into small alternating squares of two tinctures; --
said of the field or of an armorial bearing. [Written also checquy,
cheguy.]

CHEDDAR
Ched"dar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or made at, Cheddar, in England; as,
Cheddar cheese.

CHEEK
Cheek, n. Etym: [OE. cheke, cheoke, AS. céace, céoce; cf. Goth.
kukjan to kiss, D. kaak cheek; perh. akin to E. chew, jaw.]

1. The side of the face below the eye.

2. The cheek bone. [Obs.] Caucer.

3. pl. (Mech.)

Defn: Those pieces of a machine, or of any timber, or stone work,
which form corresponding sides, or which are similar and in pair; as,
the cheeks (jaws) of a vise; the cheeks of a gun carriage, etc.

4. pl.

Defn: The branches of a bridle bit. Knight.

5. (Founding)

Defn: A section of a flask, so made that it can be moved laterally,
to permit the removal of the pattern from the mold; the middle part
of a flask.

6. Cool confidence; assurance; impudence. [Slang] Cheek of beef. See
Illust. of Beef.
 -- Cheek bone (Anat.) the bone of the side of the fase; esp., the
malar bone.
 -- Cheek by jowl, side by side; very intimate.
 -- Cheek pouch (Zoöl.), a sacklike dilation of the cheeks of certain
monkeys and rodents, used for holding food.
 -- Cheeks of a block, the two sides of the shell of a tackle block.
 -- Cheeks of a mast, the projection on each side of a mast, upon
which the trestletrees rest.
 -- Cheek tooth (Anat.), a hinder or molar tooth.
 -- Butment cheek. See under Butment.

CHEEK
Cheek, v. t.

Defn: To be impudent or saucy to. [Slang.]

CHEEKED
Cheeked, a.

Defn: Having a cheek; -- used in composition. "Rose-cheeked Adonis."
Shak.

CHEEKY
Cheek"y,

Defn: a Brazen-faced; impudent; bold. [Slang.]

CHEEP
Cheep, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cheeped.] Etym: [Cf. Chirp].

Defn: To chirp, as a young bird.

CHEEP
Cheep, v. t.

Defn: To give expression to in a chirping tone.
Cheep and twitter twenty million loves. Tennyson.

CHEEP
Cheep, n.

Defn: A chirp, peep, or squeak, as of a young bird or mousse.

CHEER
Cheer, n. Etym: [OE. chere face, welcome, cheer, OF. chiere, F.
chère, fr. LL. cara face, Gr. , L. cerebrum brain, G. hirn, and E.
cranium.]

1. The face; the countenance or its expression. [Obs.] "Sweat of thy
cheer." Wyclif.

2. Feeling; spirit; state of mind or heart.
Be of good cheer. Matt. ix. 2.
The parents . . . fled away with heavy cheer. Holland.

3. Gayety; mirth; cheerfulness; animation.
I have not that alacrity of spirit, Nor cheer of mind, that I was
wont to have. Shak.

1. That which promotes good spirits or cheerfulness; provisions
prepared for a feast; entertainment; as, a table loaded with good
cheer.

5. A shout, hurrah, or acclamation, expressing joy enthusiasm,
applause, favor, etc.
Welcome her, thundering cheer of the street. Tennyson.
Whzt cheer Now do you fare What is there that is cheering

CHEER
Cheer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cheered; p. pr. & vb. n. cheering.]

1. To cause to rejoice; to gladden; to make cheerful; -- often with
up. Cowpe.

2. To infuse life, courage, animation, or hope, into; to inspirit; to
solace or comfort.
The proud he tamed, the penitent he cheered. Dryden.

3. To salute or applaud with cheers; to urge on by cheers; as, to
cheer hounds in a chase. To cheer ship, to salute a passing ship by
cheers of sailors stationed in the rigging.

Syn.
 -- To gladden; encourage; inspirit; comfort; console; enliven;
refresh; exhilarate; animate; applaud.

CHEER
Cheer, v. i.

1. To grow cheerful; to become gladsome or joyous; -- usually with
up.
At sight of thee my gloomy soul cheers up. A. Philips.

2. To be in any state or temper of mind. [Obs.]
How cheer'st thou, Jessica Shak.

3. To utter a shout or shouts of applause, triumph, etc.
And even the ranks of Tusculum Could scare forbear to cheer.
Macaulay.

CHEERER
Cheer"er, n.

Defn: One who cheers; one who, or that which, gladdens. "Thou cheerer
of our days." Wotton. "Prime cheerer, light." Thomson.

CHEERFUL
Cheer"ful, a.

Defn: Having or showing good spirits or joy; cheering; cheery;
contented; happy; joyful; lively; animated; willing.
To entertain a cheerful disposition. Shak.
The cheerful birds of sundry kind Do chant sweet music. Spenser.
A cheerful confidence in the mercy of God. Macaulay.
This general applause and cheerful shout. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Lively; animated; gay; joyful; lightsome; gleeful; blithe; airy;
sprightly; jocund; jolly; joyous; vivacious; buoyant; sunny; happy;
hopeful.

CHEERFULLY
Cheer"ful*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cheerful manner, gladly.

CHEERFULNESS
Cheer"ful*ness, n.

Defn: Good spirits; a state of moderate joy or gayety; alacrity.

CHEERILY
Cheer"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cheery manner.

CHEERINESS
Cheer"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being cheery.

CHEERINGLY
Cheer"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner to cheer or encourage.

CHEERISNESS
Cheer"is*ness, n.

Defn: Cheerfulness. [Obs.]
There is no Christian duty that is not to be seasoned and set off
with cheerishness. Milton.

CHEERLESS
Cheer"less, a.

Defn: Without joy, gladness, or comfort.
 -- Cheer"less*ly, adv.
 -- Cheer"less*ness, n.
My cheerful day is turned to cheerles night. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- Gloomy; sad; comfortless; dispiriting; dicsconsolate; dejected;
melancholy; forlorn.

CHEERLY
Cheer"ly, a.

Defn: Gay; cheerful. [Obs.] Shak.

CHEERLY
Cheer"ly, adv.

Defn: Cheerily. [Archaic] Tennyson.

CHEERRY
Cheer"ry, a.

Defn: Cheerful; lively; gay; bright; pleasant; as, a cheery person.
His cheery little study, where the sunshine glimmered so pleasantly.
Hawthorne.

CHEESE
Cheese, n. Etym: [OE. chese, AS. cese, fr. L. caseus, LL. casius. Cf.
Casein.]

1. The curd of milk, coagulated usually with rennet, separated from
the whey, and pressed into a solid mass in a hoop or mold.

2. A mass of pomace, or ground apples, pressed togehter in the form
of a cheese.

3. The flat, circuliar, mucilaginous fruit of the dwarf mallow (Malva
rotundifolia). [Colloq.]

4. A low courtesy; -- so called on account of the cheese form assumed
by a woman's dress when she stoops after extending the skirts by a
rapid gyration. De Quincey. Thackeray. Cheese cake, a cake made of or
filled with, a composition of soft curds, sugar, and butter. Prior.
 -- Cheese fly (Zoöl.), a black dipterous insect (Piophila casei) of
which the larvæ or maggots, called ckippers or hoppers, live in
cheese.
 -- Cheese mite (Zoöl.), a minute mite (Tryoglyhus siro) in cheese
and other articles of food.
 -- Cheese press, a press used in making cheese, to separate the whey
from the curd, and to press the curd into a mold.
 -- Cheese rennet (Bot.), a plant of the Madder family (Golium verum,
or yellow bedstraw), sometimes used to coagulate milk. The roots are
used as a substitute for madder.
 -- Cheese vat, a vat or tub in which the curd is formed and cut or
broken, in cheese making.

CHEESE CLOTH
Cheese" cloth`.

Defn: A thin, loosewoven cotton cloth, such as is used in pressing
cheese curds.

CHEESELEP
Cheese"lep, n. Etym: [Cf. Keslop.]

Defn: A bag in which rennet is kept.

CHEESEMONGER
Cheese"mon`ger, n.

Defn: One who deals incheese. B. Jonson.

CHEESEPARING
Cheese"par`ing, n.

Defn: A thin portion of the rind of a cheese.
 -- a.

Defn: Scrimping; mean; as, cheeseparing economy.

CHEESINESS
Chees"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being cheesy.

CHEESY
Chees"y, a.

Defn: Having the nature, qualities, taste, form, consistency, or
appearance of cheese.

CHEETAH
Chee"tah, n. Etym: [Hind. chita.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of leopard (Cynælurus jubatus) tamed and used for
hunting in India. The woolly cheetah of South Africa is C. laneus.
[Written also chetah.]

CHEF
Chef, n. Etym: [F.]

1. A chief of head person.

2. The head cook of large establishment, as a club, a family, etc.

3. (Her.)

Defn: Same as Chief.

CHEF-D'OEUVRE
Chef`-d'oeuvre", n.; pl. Chefs-d'oeuvre. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A masterpiece; a capital work in art, literature, etc.

CHEGOE; CHEGRE
Cheg"oe, Cheg"re, n.

Defn: See Chigoe.

CHEILOPLASTY
Chei"lo*plas`ty, n. Etym: [Gr. -plasty.] (Surg.)

Defn: The process of forming an artificial tip or part of a lip, by
using for the purpose a piece of healthy tissue taken from some
neighboring part.

CHEILOPODA
Chei*lop"o*da, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Ch.

CHEIROPTER
Chei*rop"ter, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cheiroptera.

CHEIROPTERA
Chei*rop"te*ra, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of mammalia, including the bats, having four toes of
each of the anterior limbs elongated and connected by a web, so that
they can be used like wings in flying. See Bat.

CHEIROPTEROUS
Chei*rop"ter*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Cheiroptera, or Bat family.

CHEIROPTERYGIUM
Chei*rop`te*ryg"i*um, n.; pl. Cheiropterygia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
(Anat.)

Defn: The typical pentadactyloid limb of the higher vertebrates.

CHEIROSOPHY
Chei*ros"o*phy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The art of reading character as it is delineated in the hand.
 -- Chei*ros"o*phist (, n.

CHEIROTHERIUM
Chei`ro*the"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Poleon.)

Defn: A genus of extinct animals, so named from fossil footprints
rudely resembling impressions of the human hand, and believed to have
been made by labyrinthodont reptiles. See Illustration in Appendix.

CHEKELATOUN
Chek`e*la*toun", n.

Defn: See Ciclatoun. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHEKMAK
Chek"mak, n.

Defn: A turkish fabric of silk and cotton, with gold thread
interwoven.

CHELA
Che"la, n.; pl. Chelæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pincherlike claw of Crustacea and Arachnida.

CHELATE
Che"late, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Cheliferous.

CHELERYTHRINE
Chel`e*ryth"rine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Am alkaloidal principle obtained from the celandine, and named
from the red color of its salts, It is a coloriess crystalline
substance, and acts as an acrid narcotic poison. It is identical with
sanguinarine.

CHELICERA
Che*lic"e*ra, n.; pl. Cheliceræ Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the anterior pair of mouth organs, terminated by a
pincherlike claw, in scorpions and allied Arachnida. They are
homologous with the falcers of spiders, and probably with the
mandibles of insects.

CHELIDON
Chel"i*don, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The hollow at the flexure of the arm.

CHELIDONIC
Chel`i*don"ic, a. Etym: [See Celandine.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the celandine. Cheidonic
acid, a weak acid extracted fron the celandine (Chelidonium majus),
as a white crystalline substance.

CHELIDONIUS
Chel`i*do"ni*us, n. Etym: [L. (sc. lapillus.)]

Defn: A small stone taken from the gizzard of a young swallow.
 -- anciently worn as a medicinal charm.

CHELIFER
Chel"i*fer, n. Etym: [Gr. -fer.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Book scorpion, under Book.

CHELIFEROUS
Che*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. -ferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having cheliform claws, like a crab.

CHELIFORM
Chel"i*form, a. Etym: [Gr. -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a movable joint or finger closing againts a preceding
joint or a projecting part of it, so that the whole may be ised for
grasping, as the claw of a crab; pincherlike.

CHELONE
Che*lo"ne, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of hardy perennial flowering plants, of the order
Scrophulariaceaæ., natives of North America; -- called also
snakehead, turtlehead, shellflower, etc.

CHELONIA
Che*lo"ni*a, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of reptiles, including the tortoises and turtles,
perculiar in having a part of the vertebræ, ribs, and sternum united
with the dermal plates so as to form a firm shell. The jaws are
covered by a horny beak. See Reptilia; also, Illust. in Appendix.

CHELONIAN
Che*lo"ni*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to animals of the tortoise kind.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Chelonia.

CHELURA
Che*lu"ra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine amphipod crustacea, which bore into and
sometimes destroy timber.

CHELY
Che"ly, n.

Defn: A claw. See Chela. [Obs.]

CHEMIC
Chem"ic, n. Etym: [See Chenistry.]

1. A chemist; an alchemist. [Obs.]

2. (Bleaching)

Defn: A solution of chloride of line.

CHEMIC
Chem"ic, a.

Defn: Chemical. Blackw. Mag.

CHEMICAL
Chem"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to chemistry; characterized or produced by the
forces and operations of chemistry; employed in the processes of
chemistry; as, chemical changes; chemical comnbinations. Chemical
attraction or affinity. See under Attraction.

CHEMICAL
Chem"ic*al, n.

Defn: A substance used for producing a chemical effect; a reagent.

CHEMICALLY
Chem"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: According to chemical principles; by chemical process or
operation.

CHEMIGLYPHIC
Chem`i*glyph"ic, a. Etym: [Chemical +

Defn: Engraved by a voltaic battary.

CHEMIGRAPHY
Che*mig"ra*phy, n.  [Chemical + -graphy.]

Defn: Any mechanical engraving process depending upon chemical
action; specif., a process of zinc etching not employing photography.
-- Chem`i*graph"ic (#), a.

CHEMILOON
Chem`i*loon", n.

Defn: A garment for women, consisting of chemise and drawers united
in one. [U. S.]

CHEMISE
Che*mise", n. Etym: [F., shirt, fr. LL. camisa, camisia, shirt, thin
dress; cf. G. hemd, or Olr. coimumse sort of garment. Cf. Camis.]

1. A shift, or undergarment, worn by women.

2. A wall that lines the face of a bank or earthwork.

CHEMISETTE
Chem`i*sette", n.Etym: [F., dim. of chemise.]

Defn: An under-garment, worn by women, usually covering the neck,
shoulders, and breast.

CHEMISM
Chem"ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chimisme. See Chemistry.]

Defn: The force exerted between the atoms of elementary substance
whereby they unite to form chemical compounds; chemical attaction;
affinity; -- sometimes used as a general expression for chemical
activity or relationship.

CHEMIST
Chem"ist, n. Etym: [Shortened from alchemist; cf. F. chimiste.]

Defn: A person versed in chemistry or given to chemical
investigation; an analyst; a maker or seller of chemicals or drugs.

CHEMISTRY
Chem"is*try, n. Etym: [From Chemist. See Alchemy.]

1. That branch of science which treats of the composition of
substances, and of the changes which they undergo in consequence of
alterations in the constitution of the molecules, which depend upon
variations of the number, kind, or mode of arrangement, of the
constituent atoms. These atoms are not assumed to be indivisible, but
merely the finest grade of subdivision hitherto attained. Chemistry
deals with the changes in the composition and constitution of
molecules. See Atom, Molecule.

Note: Historically, chemistry is an outgrowth of alchemy (or
alchemistry), with which it was anciently identified.

2. An application of chemical theory and method to the consideration
of some particular subject; as, the chemistry of iron; the chemistry
of indigo.

3. A treatise on chemistry.

Note: This word and its derivatives were formerly written with y, and
sometimes with i, instead of e, in the first syllable, chymistry,
chymist, chymical, etc., or chimistry, chimist, chimical, etc.; and
the pronunciation was conformed to the orthography. Inorganic
chemistry, that which treats of inorganic or mineral substances.
 -- Organic chemistry, that which treats of the substances which from
the structure of organized beings and their products, whether animal
or vegetable; -- called also chemistry of the carbon compounds. There
is no fundamental difference between organic and inorganic chemistry.
 -- Physiological chemistry, the chemistry of the organs and tissues
of the body, and of the various physiological processes incident to
life.
 -- Practical chemistry, or Applied chemistry, that which treats of
the modes of manufacturing the products of chemistry that are useful
in the arts, of their applications to economical purposes, and of the
conditions essential to their best use.
 -- Pure chemistry, the consideration of the facts and theories of
chemistry in their purely scientific relations, without necessary
reference to their practical applications or mere utility.

CHEMITYPE
Chem"i*type, n. Etym: [Chemical + -type.] (Engraving)

Defn: One of a number of processes by which an impression from an
engraved plate is obtained in relief, to be used for printing on an
ordinary printing press.

CHEMOLYSIS
Che*mol"y*sis, n. Etym: [Chemical + Gr.

Defn: A term sometimes applied to the decomposition of organic
substance into more simple bodies, by the use of chemical agents
alone. Thudichum.

CHEMOSIS
Che*mo"sis, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  a swelling of the cornea resembling a
cockleshell, fr.  a gaping, hence a cockleshell.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammatory swelling of the conjunctival tissue surrounding
the cornea. --Che*mot"ic (#), a.

CHEMOSMOSIS
Chem`os*mo"sis, n. Etym: [Chemical + osmosis.]

Defn: Chemical action taking place through an intervening membrane.

CHEMOSMOTIC
Chem`os*mot"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or produced by, chemosmosis. [R.]

CHEMOSYNTHESIS
Chem`o*syn"the*sis, n. [Chemical + synthesis.] (Plant Physiol.)

Defn: Synthesis of organic compounds by energy derived from chemical
changes or reactions. Chemosynthesis of carbohydrates occurs in the
nitrite bacteria through the oxidation of ammonia to nitrous acid,
and in the nitrate bacteria through the conversion of nitrous into
nitric acid. -- Chem`o*syn*thet"ic (#), a.

CHEMOTAXIS; CHEMIOTAXIS
Chem`o*tax"is, n. Formerly also Chem`i*o*tax"is. [Chemical + Gr.
arrangement, fr.  to arrange.] (Biol.)

Defn: The sensitiveness exhibited by small free-swimming organisms,
as bacteria, zoöspores of algæ, etc., to chemical substances held in
solution. They may be attracted (positive chemotaxis) or repelled
(negative chemotaxis). -- Chem`o*tac"tic (#), a. --
Chem`o*tac"tic*al*ly, adv.

CHEMUNG PERIOD
Che*mung" pe"ri*od, (Geol.)

Defn: A subdivision in the upper part of the Devonian system in
America, so named from the Chemung River, along which the rocks are
well developed. It includes the Portage and Chemung groups or epochs.
See the Diagram under Geology.

CHENG
Cheng, n. Etym: [Chinese.]

Defn: A chinese reed instrument, with tubes, blown by the mouth.

CHENILLE
Che*nille", n. Etym: [F., prop., a caterpillar.]

Defn: Tufted cord, of silk or worsted, for the trimimg of ladies'
dresses, for embroidery and fringes, and for the weft of chenille
rugs.

CHENOMORPHAE
Che`no*mor"phæ, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of birds, including the swans, ducks, geese,
flamingoes and screamers.

CHEPSTER
Chep"ster, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European starling. [Local, Eng.]

CHEQUE
Cheque, n.

Defn: See Check.

CHEQUER
Cheq"uer, n. & v.

Defn: Same as Checker.

CHEQUING
Che*quing", n.

Defn: A coin. See Sequin. Shak.

CHEQUY
Cheq"uy, n. (Her.)

Defn: Same as Checky.

CHERIF
Cher"if, n.

Defn: See Cherif.

CHERIMOYER
Cher`i*moy"er, n. Etym: [F. chérimolier.] (Bot.)

1. A small downy-leaved tree (Anona Cherimolia), with fragrant
flowers. It is a native of Peru.

2. Its delicious fruit, which is succulent, dark purple, and similar
to the custard apple of the West Indies.

CHERISH
Cher"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cherished; p. pr. & vb. n. Cherising.]
Etym: [F. chérir, fr. cher dear, fr. L. carus. See Caress, Finish.]

1. To treat with tenderness and affection; to nurture with care; to
protect and aid.
We were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her children. 1
Thess. ii. 7.

2. To hold dear; to embrace with interest; to indulge; to encourage;
to foster; to promote; as, to cherish religious principle.
To cherish virtue and humanity. Burke.

Syn.
 -- To nourish; foster; nurse; nurture; entertain; encourage;
comfort; protect; support; See Nurture.

CHERISHER
Cher"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who cherishes.
The cherisher of my flesh and blood. Shak.

CHERISHMENT
Cher"ish*ment, n.

Defn: Encouragement; comfort. [Obs.]
Rich bounty and dear cherishment. Spenser.

CHERMES
Cher"mes, n.

Defn: See Kermes.

CHEROGRIL
Cher"o*gril, n. Etym: [L. choerogryllus, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cony.

CHEROKEES
Cher`o*kees", n. pl.; sing. Cherokee. (Ethnol.)

Defn: An Appalachian tribe of Indians, formerly inhabiting the region
about the head waters of the Tennessee River. They are now mostly
settled in the Indian Territory, and have become one of the most
civilized of the Indian Tribes.

CHEROOT
Che*root", n. Etym: [Tamil shuruttu, prop., a roll.]

Defn: A kind of cigar, originally brought from Mania, in the
Philippine Islands; now often made of inferior or adulterated
tabacco.

CHERRY
Cher"ry, n. Etym: [OE. chery, for cherys, fr. F. cerise (cf. AS. cyrs
cherry), fr. LL. ceresia, fr. L. cerasus Cherry tree, Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A tree or shrub of the genus Prunus (Which also includes the
plum) bearing a fleshy drupe with a bony stone; (a) The common garden
cherry (Prunus Cerasus), of which several hundred varieties are
cultivated for the fruit, some of which are, the begarreau,
blackheart, black Tartarian, oxheart, morelle or morello, May-duke
(corrupted from Médoc in France). (b) The wild cherry; as, prunus
serotina (wild black cherry), valued for its timber; P. Virginiana
(choke cherry), an American shrub which bears astringent fruit; P.
avium and P. Padus, European trees (bird cherry).

2. The fruit of the cherry tree, a drupe of various colors and
flavors.

3. The timber of the cherry tree, esp. of the black cherry, used in
cabinetmaking, etc.

4. A peculiar shade of red, like that of a cherry. Barbadoes cherry.
See under Barbadoes.
 -- Cherry bird (Zoöl.), an American bird; the cedar bird; -- so
called from its fondness for cherries.
 -- Cherry bounce, cherry brandy and sugar.
 -- Cherry brandy, brandy in which cherries have been steeped.
 -- Cherry laurel (Bot.), an evergren shrub (Prunus Lauro-cerasus)
common in shrubberies, the poisonous leaves of which have a flavor
like that of bitter almonds.
 -- Cherry pepper (Bot.), a species of Capsicum (C. cerasiforme),
with small, scarlet, intensely piquant cherry-shaped fruit.
 -- Cherry pit. (a) A child's play, in which cherries are thrown into
a hole. Shak. (b) A cherry stone.
 -- Cherry rum, rum in which cherries have been steeped.
 -- Cherry sucker (Zoöl.), the European spotted flycatcher (Musicapa
grisola); -- called also cherry chopper cherry snipe. Cherry tree, a
tree that bears cherries.
 -- Ground cherry, Winter cherry, See Alkekengi.

CHERRY
Cher"ry, a.

Defn: Like a red cherry in color; ruddy; blooming; as, a cherry lip;
cherry cheeks.

CHERSONESE
Cher"so*nese, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A peninsula; a tract of land nearly surrounded by water, but
united to a larger tract by a neck of land or isthmus; as, the
Cimbric Chersonese, or Jutland; the Tauric Chersonese, or Crimea.

CHERT
Chert, n. Etym: [Ir. ceart stone, perh. akin to E. crag.] (Min.)

Defn: An impure, massive, flintlike quartz or hornstone, of a dull
color.

CHERTY
Chert"y, a.

Defn: Like chert; containing chert; flinty.

CHERUB
Cher"ub, n.; pl. Cherubs; but the Hebrew plural Cherubim is also
used. Etym: [Heb. kerub.]

1. A mysterious composite being, the winged footstool and chariot of
the Almighty, described in Ezekiel i. and x.
I knew that they were the cherubim. Ezek. x. 20.
He rode upon a cherub and did fly. Ps. xviii. 10.

2. A symbolical winged figure of unknown form used in connection with
the mercy seat of the Jewish Ark and Temple. Ez. xxv. 18.

3. One of a order of angels, variously represented in art. In
European painting the cherubim have been shown as blue, to denote
knowledge, as distinguished from the seraphim (see Seraph), and in
later art the children's heads with wings are generally called
cherubs.

4. A beautiful child; -- so called because artists have represented
cherubs as beautiful children.

CHERUBIC; CHERUBICAL
Che*ru"bic, Che*ru"bic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cherubs; angelic. "The cherubic host."
Milton.

CHERUBIM
Cher"u*bim, n.

Defn: The Hebrew plural of Cherub.. Cf. Seraphim.

Note: Cherubims, in the King James version of the bible, is an
incorrect form, made by adding the English plural termination to the
Hebrew plural cherubim instead of to the singular cherub.

CHERUBIN
Cher"u*bin, a.

Defn: Cherubic; angelic. [Obs.] Shak.

CHERUBIN
Cher"u*bin, n.

Defn: A cherub. [Obs.] Dryden.

CHERUP
Cher"up, v. i. Etym: [Prob. fr. chirp.]

Defn: To make a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to chirp. See Chirrup.
"Cheruping birds." Drayton.

CHERUP
Cher"up, v. t.

Defn: To excite or urge on by making a short, shrill, cheerful sound;
to cherup to. See Chirrup.
He cherups brisk ear-erecting steed. Cowper.

CHERUP
Cher"up, n.

Defn: A short, sharp, cheerful noise; a chirp; a chirrup; as, the
cherup of a cricket.

CHERVIL
Cher"vil, n. Etym: [AS. cerfille, fr. L. caerefolium, chaerephyllum,
Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Anthriscus cerefolium) with pinnately divided aromatic
leaves, of which several curled varieties are used in soups and
salads.

CHES
Ches,

Defn: pret. of Chese. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHESE
Chese, v. t.

Defn: To choose [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHESIBLE
Ches"i*ble, n.

Defn: See Chasuble.

CHESLIP
Ches"lip, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wood louse. [Prov. Eng.]

CHESS
Chess, n. Etym: [OE. ches, F. échecs, prop. pl. of échec check. See
1st Check.]

Defn: A game played on a chessboard, by two persons, with two
differently colored sets of men, sixteen in each set. Each player has
a king, a queen, two bishops, two knights, two castles or rooks, and
eight pawns.

CHESS
Chess, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of brome grass (Bromus secalinus) which is a
troublesome weed in wheat flelds, and is often erroneously regarded
as degenerate or changed wheat; it bears a very slight resemblance to
oats, and if reaped and ground up with wheat, so as to be used for
food, is said to produce narcotic effects; -- called also cheat and
Willard's bromus. [U. S.]

Note: Other species of brome grass are called upright chess, soft
chess, etc.

CHESS-APPLE
Chess"-ap`ple, n.

Defn: The wild service of Europe (Purus torminalis).

CHESSBOARD
Chess"board`, n.

Defn: The board used in the game of chess, having eight rows of
alternate light and dark squares, eight in each row. See
Checkerboard.

Note: The chessboard and the checkerboard are alike.

CHESSEL
Ches"sel, n.

Defn: The wooden mold in which cheese is pressed. Simmonds.

CHESSES
Chess"es, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. F. chassis a framework of carpenty.]
(Mil.)

Defn: The platforms, consisting of two or more planks doweled
together, for the flooring of a temporary military bridge. Wilhelm.
A singular, chess, is sometimes used. "Each chess consists of three
planks." Farrow.

CHESSIL
Ches"sil, n. Etym: [OE. chesil, AS. ceosel gravel, sand.]

Defn: Gravel or pebbles. Halliwell.

CHESSMAN
Chess"man, n.; pl. Chessmen.

Defn: A piece used in the game of chess.

CHESSOM
Ches"som, n. Etym: [Cf. Chisley.]

Defn: Mellow earth; mold. [Obs.] Bacon.

CHESSTREE
Chess"tree`, n. Etym: [Cf. F chassis a framework of carpentry.]
(Naut.)

Defn: A piece of oak bolted perpendicularly on the side of a vessel,
to aid in drawing down and securing the clew of the mainsail.

CHESSY COPPER
Ches`sy" cop"per. (Min.)

Defn: The mineral azurite, found in fine crystallization at Chessy,
near Lyons; called also chessylite.

CHEST
Chest, n. Etym: [OE. chest, chist, AS. cest, cist, cyst, L. cista,
fr. Gr. Cist, Cistern.]

1. A large box of wood, or other material, having, like a trunk, a
lid, but no covering of skin, leather, or cloth.
Heaps of money crowded in the chest. Dryden.

2. A coffin. [Obs.]
He is now dead and mailed in his cheste. Chaucer.

3. The part of the body inclosed by the ribs and breastbone; the
thorax.

4. (Com.)

Defn: A case in which certain goods, as tea, opium, etc., are
transported; hence, the quantity which such a case contains.

5. (Mech.)

Defn: A tight receptacle or box, usually for holding gas, steam,
liguids, etc.; as, the steam chest of an engine; the wind chest of an
organ. Bomb chest, See under Bomb.
 -- Chest of drawers, a case or movable frame containing drawers.

CHEST
Chest, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chested.]

1. To deposit in a chest; to hoard.

2. To place in a coffin. [Obs.]
He dieth and is chested. Gen. 1. 26 (heading).

CHEST
Chest, n. Etym: [AS. ceást.]

Defn: Strife; contention; controversy. [Obs.] P. Plowman.

CHESTED
Chest"ed, a.

Defn: Having (such) a chest; -- in composition; as, broad-chested;
narrow-chested.

CHESTERLITE
Ches"ter*lite, n. Etym: [See -lite.]

Defn: A variety of feldspar found in crystals in the county of
Chester, Pennsylvania.

CHESTEYN
Ches"teyn, n.

Defn: The chestnut tree. [Obs.]
Wilwe, elm, plane, assch, box, chesteyn. Chaucer.

CHEST FOUNDER
Chest" foun`der. (Far.)

Defn: A rheumatic affection of the muscles of the breast and fore
legs of a horse, affecting motion and respiration.

CHESTNUT
Chest"nut, n. Etym: [For chesten-nut; OE. chestein, chesten,
chastein, chestnut, fr. AS. cisten in cistenbeám chestnut tree,
influenced by OF. chastaigne, F. châtaigne, both the AS. and the F.
words coming from L. castanea a chestnut, Gr. Castanets.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The edible nut of a forest tree (Castanea vesce) of Europe and
America. Commonly two or more of the nuts grow in a prickly bur.

2. The tree itself, or its light, coarse-grained timber, used for
ornamental work, furniture, etc.

3. A bright brown color, like that of the nut.

4. The horse chestnut (often so used in England).

5. One of the round, or oval, horny plates on the inner sides of the
legs of the horse, and allied animals.

6. An old joke or story. [Slang] Chestnut tree, a tree that bears
chestnuts.

CHESTNUT
Chest"nut, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining of a chestnut; of a reddish brown color; as,
chestnut curls.

CHETAH
Che"tah, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cheetah.

CHETVERT
Chet"vert, n. Etym: [Russ. chetverte.]

Defn: A measure of grain equal to 0.7218 of an imperial quarter, or
5.95 Winchester bushels. [Russia]

CHEVACHIE
Chev"a*chie`, n.

Defn: See Chivachie. [Obs.]

CHEVAGE
Che"vage, n.

Defn: See Chiefage. [Obs.]

CHEVAL
Che*val", n.; pl. Chevaux. Etym: [F. See Cavalcade.]

Defn: A horse; hence, a support or frame. Cheval glass, a mirror
swinging in a frame, and large enough to reflect the full leght
figure.

CHEVAL-DE-FRISE
Che*val"-de-frise", n.; commonly used in the pl. Chevaux-de-frise.
Etym: [F.; cheval horse + Frise Friesland, where it was first used.]
(Mil.)

Defn: A piece of timber or an iron barrel traversed with iron-pointed
spikes or spears, five or six feet long, used to defend a passage,
stop a breach, or impede the advance of cavalry, etc.
Obstructions of chain, boom, and cheval-de-frise. W. Irving.

CHEVALIER
Che`va*lier", n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. caballarius. See Cavaller.]

1. A horseman; a knight; a gallant young man. "Mount, chevaliers; to
arms." Shak.

2. A member of certain orders of knighthood. Chevalier d'industrie (
Etym: [F.], one who lives by persevering fraud; a pickpocket; a
sharper.
 -- The Chevalier St. George (Eng. Hist.), James Francis Edward
Stuart (son of James II.), called "The Pretender." -- The Young
Chevalier, Charles Edward Stuart, son of the Chevalier St. George.

CHEVAUX
Che*vaux", n. pl.

Defn: See Cheval.

CHEVE
Cheve, v. i. Etym: [OF. chevir. See Chievance.]

Defn: To come to an issue; to turn out; to succed; as, to cheve well
in a enterprise. [Prov. or Obs.] Holland.

CHEVELURE
Cheve*lure", n. Etym: [F., head of hair.]

Defn: A hairlike envelope.
The nucleus and chevelure of nebulous star. Sir. W. Hershel.

CHEVEN
Chev"en, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chevanne. Cf. Chavender.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A river fish; the chub. Sir T. Browne.

CHEVENTEIN
Chev"en*tein, n.

Defn: A variant of Chieftain. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHEVERIL
Chev"er*il, n. Etym: [OF. chevrel, F. chevreau, kid, dim. of chevre
goat, fr. L. capra. See Caper, v. i.]

Defn: Soft leather made of kid skin. Fig.: Used as a symbol of
flexibility. [Obs.]
Here's wit of cheveril, that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell
broad. Shak.

CHEVERIL
Chev"er*il, a.

Defn: Made of cheveril; pliant. [Obs.]
A cheveril conscience and a searching wit. Drayton.

CHEVERLIIZE
Chev"er*li*ize, v. i.

Defn: To make as pliable as kid leather. [Obs.] Br. Montagu.

CHEVET
Che*vet", n. Etym: [F., head of the bed, dim. fr. chef head. See
Chief.] (Arch.)

Defn: The extreme end of the chancel or choir; properly the round or
polygonal part.

CHEVIOT
Chev"i*ot, n.

1. A valuable breed of mountain sheep in Scotland, which takes its
name from the Cheviot hills.

2. A woolen fabric, for men's clothing.

CHEVISANCE
Chev"i*sance, n. Etym: [Of. chevisance, chevissance, fr. chevircome
to an end, perform, fr. chef head, end, from L. caput head. See
Chieve, Chief.]

1. Achievement; deed; performance. [Obs.]
Fortune, the foe of famous chevisance. Spenser.

2. A bargain; profit; gain. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

3. (O. Eng. Law)
(a) A making of contracts.
(b) A bargain or contract; an agreement about a matter in dispute,
such as a debt; a business compact.
(c) An unlawful agreement or contract.

CHEVRETTE
Chev*rette", n. Etym: [F., fr. chévre goat, fr. L. capra. Cf.
Chevron.] (Mil.)

Defn: A machine for raising guns or mortar into their carriages.

CHEVRON
Chev"ron, n. Etym: [F., rafter, chevron, from chévre goat, OF.
chevre, fr. L. capra she-goat. See Cheveril.]

1. (Her.)

Defn: One of the nine honorable ordinaries, consisting of two broad
bands of the width of the bar, issuing, respectively from the dexter
and sinister bases of the field and conjoined at its center.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A distinguishing mark, above the elow, on the sleeve of a
noncommisioned officer's coat.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A zigzag molding, or group of moldings, common in Norman
architecture. Chevron bones (Anat.), The V-shaped subvertebral arches
which inclose the caudal blood vessels in some animals.

CHEVRONED
Chev"roned, p. a.

Defn: Having a chevron; decorated with an ornamental figure of a
zigzag from.
[A garment] whose nether parts, with their bases, were of watchet
cloth of silver, chevroned all over with lace. B. Jonson.

CHEVRONEL
Chev"ron*el, n. (Her.)

Defn: A bearing like a chevron, but of only half its width.

CHEVRONWISE
Chev"ron*wise`, adv. (Her.)

Defn: In the manner of a chevron; as, the field may be divided
chevronwise.

CHEVROTAIN
Chev`ro*tain", n. Etym: [F. chevrotin, OF. chevrot little goat, roe,
dim. of chevre goat. See Chevron.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small ruminant of the family Tragulidæ a allied to the musk
deer. It inhabits Africa and the East Indies. See Kanchil.

CHEVY
Chev"y, v. t.

Defn: See Chivy, v. t. [Slang, Eng.]
One poor fellow was chevied about among the casks in the storm for
ten minutes. London Times.

CHEW
Chew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chewed; p. pr. & vb. n. Chewing.] Etym: [As
ceówan, akin to D. kauwen, G. kauen. Cf. Chaw, Jaw.]

1. To bite and grind with the teeth; to masticate.

2. To ruminate mentally; to meditate on.
He chews revenge, abjuring his offense. Prior.
To chew the cud, to chew the food ocer again, as a cow; to ruminate;
hence, to meditate.
Every beast the parteth the hoof, and cleaveth the cleft into two
claws, and cheweth the cud among the beasts, that ye shall eat. Deut.
xxiv. 6.

CHEW
Chew, v. i.

Defn: To perform the action of biting and grinding with the teeth; to
ruminate; to meditate.
old politicians chew wisdom past. Pope.

CHEW
Chew, n.

Defn: That which is chewed; that which is held in the mouth at once;
a cud. [Law]

CHEWER
Chew"er, n.

Defn: One who chews.

CHEWET
Chew"et, n.

Defn: A kind of meat pie. [Obs.]

CHEWINK
Che"wink, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An american bird (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) of the Finch family,
so called from its note; -- called also towhee bunting and ground
robin.

CHEYENNES
Chey*ennes", n. pl.; sing. cheyenne. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A warlike tribe of indians, related to the blackfeet, formerly
inhabiting the region of Wyoming, but now mostly on reservations in
the Indian Territory. They are noted for their horsemanship.

CHIAN
Chi"an a. Etym: [L. chius, fr. Chios the island Chios, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Chios, an island in the Ægean Sea. Chian
earth, a dense, compact kind of earth, from Chios, used anciently as
an astringent and a cosmetic.
 -- Chian turpentine, a fragrant, almost transparent turpentine,
obtained from the Pistacia Terebinthus.

CHIAROSCURIST
Chi*a`ros*cu"rist, n.

Defn: A painter who cares for and studies light and shade rather than
color.

CHIAROSCURO; CHIARO-OSCURO
Chia`ro*scu"ro, Chi*a"ro-os*cu"ro, n. Etym: [It., clear dark.]
(a) The arrangement of light and dark parts in a work of art, such as
a drawing or painting, whether in monochrome or in color.
(b) The art or practice of so arranging the light and dark parts as
to produce a harmonious effect. Cf. Clair-obscur.

CHIASM; CHIASMA
Chi"asm, Chi*as"ma, n. Etym: [NL. chiasma, fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A commissure; especially, the optic commissure, or crucial
union of the optic nerves.
 -- Chi*as"mal (, a..

CHIASMUS
Chi*as"mus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Chiasm.] (Rhet.)

Defn: An inversion of the order of words or phrases, when repeated or
subsequently referred to in a sentence; thus,
If e'er to bless thy sons My voice or hands deny, These hands let
useful skill forsake, This voice in silence die. Dwight.

CHIASTOLITE
Chi*as"to*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite. See Chiasm. So called from the
resemblance of the cross cuts of is crystals to the Greek letter x.]
(Min.)

Defn: A variety of andalusite; -- called also macle. The tesselated
apperance of a cross section is due to the symmetrical arrangement of
impurities in the crystal.

CHIBBAL
Chib"bal, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Cibol.

CHIBOUQUE; CHIBOUK
Chi*bouque", Chi*bouk", n. Etym: [F. chibouque, fr. Turk.]

Defn: A Turkish pipe, usually with a mouthpiece of amber, a stem,
four or five feet long and not pliant, of some valuable wood, and a
bowl of baked clay.

CHIC
Chic, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Good form; style. [Slang]

CHICA
Chi"ca, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A red coloring matter. extracted from the Bignonia Chica, used
by some tribes of South American Indians to stain the skin.

2. A fermented liquor or beer made in South American from a decoction
of maize.

3. A popular Moorish, Spanish, and South American dance, said to be
the original of the fandango, etc.

CHICALOTE
Chi`ca*lo"te, n. [Sp., prob. of Mex. origin.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Mexican prickly poppy (Argemone platyceras), which has
migrated into California.

CHICANE
Chi*cane", n. Etym: [F., prob. earlier meaning a dispute, orig. in
the game of mall (F. mail), fr. LGr. chaugan club or bat; or possibly
ultimated fr. L. ciccus a trible.]

Defn: The use of artful subterfuge, designed to draw away attention
from the merits of a case or question; -- specifically applied to
legal proceedings; trickery; chicanery; caviling; sophistry. Prior.
To shuffle from them by chicane. Burke.
To cut short this, I propound it fairly to your own canscience.
Berkeley.

CHICANE
Chi*cane", v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. chicaner. See Chicane, n.]

Defn: To use shifts, cavils, or artifices. Burke.

CHICANER
Chi*can"er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chicaneur.]

Defn: One who uses chicanery. Locke.

CHICANERY
Chi*can"er*y, n. Etym: [F. chicanerie.]

Defn: Mean or unfair artifice to perplex a cause and obscure the
truth; stratagem; sharp practice; sophistry.
Irritated by perpetual chicanery. Hallam.

Syn.
 -- Trickery; sophistry; stratagem.

CHICCORY
Chic"co*ry, n.

Defn: See Chicory.

CHICH
Chich, n.; pl. Chiches (. Etym: [F. chiche, pois chiche, a dwarf pea,
from L. cicer the chick-pea.] (Bot.)

Defn: The chick-pea.

CHICHA
Chi"cha, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: See Chica.

CHICHEVACHE
Chiche"vache`, n. Etym: [F. chiche lean + vache cow.]

Defn: A fabulous cow of enormous size, whose food was patient wives,
and which was therefore in very lean condition.

CHICHLING; CHICHLING VETCH
Chich"ling, Chich"ling vetch`, n. Etym: [Chich + -ling.] (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous plant (Lathyrus sativus), with broad flattened
seeds which are sometimes used for food.

CHICK
Chick, v. i. Etym: [OE. chykkyn, chyke, chicken.]

Defn: To sprout, as seed in the ground; to vegetate. Chalmers.

CHICK
Chick, n.

1. A chicken.

2. A child or young person; -- a term of endearment. Shak.

CHICKABIDDY
Chick"a*bid`dy, n.

Defn: A chicken; a fowl; also, a trivial term of endearment for a
child.

CHICKADEE
Chick"a*dee`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small bird, the blackcap titmouse (Parus atricapillus), of
North America; -- named from its note.

CHICKAREE
Chick"a*ree`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American red squirrel (Sciurus Hudsonius); -- so called
from its cry.

CHICKASAWS
Chick"a*saws, n. pl.; sing. Chickasaw. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A trible of North American Indians (Southern Appalachian)
allied to the Choctaws. They formerly occupied the northern part of
Alabama and Mississippi, but now live in the Indian Territory.

CHICKEN
Chick"en, n. Etym: [AS. cicen, cyceun, dim. of coc cock; akin to LG.
kiken, küken, D. Kieken, kuiken, G. küchkein. See Cock the animal.]

1. A young bird or fowl, esp. a young barnyard fowl.

2. A young person; a child; esp. a young woman; a maiden. "Stella is
no chicken." Swift. Chicken cholera, a contagious disease of fowls; -
- so called because first studied during the prevalence of a cholera
epidemic in France. It has no resemblance to true cholera.

CHICKEN-BREASTED
Chick"en-breast`ed, a.

Defn: Having a narrow, projecting chest, caused by forward curvature
of the vertebral column.

CHICKEN-HEARTED
Chick"en-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Timid; fearful; cowardly. Bunyan.

CHICKEN POX
Chick"en pox". (Med.)

Defn: A mild, eruptive disease, generally attacking children only;
varicella.

CHICKLING
Chick"ling, n. Etym: [Chick+-ling.]

Defn: A small chick or chicken.

CHICK-PEA
Chick"-pea`, n. Etym: [See Chich.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A Small leguminous plant (Cicer arietinum) of Asia, Africa, and
the sounth of Europe; the chick; the dwarf pea; the gram.

2. Its nutritious seed, used in cookery, and especially, when roasted
(parched pulse), as food for travelers in the Eastern deserts.

CHICKWEED
Chick"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of several caryophyllaseous weeds, especially
Stellaria media, the seeds and flower buds of which are a favorite
food of small birds.

CHICKY
Chick"y, n.

Defn: A chicken; -- used as a diminutive or pet name, especially in
calling fowls.

CHICLE; CHICLE GUM
Chic"le, n., Chicle gum. [Amer. Sp. chicle.]

Defn: A gumlike substance obtained from the bully tree (Mimusops
globosa) and sometimes also from the naseberry or sapodilla (Sapota
zapotilla). It is more plastic than caoutchouc and more elastic than
gutta-percha, as an adulterant of which it is used in England. It is
used largely in the United States in making chewing gum.

CHICO
Chi"co, n.

1. Var. of Chica.

2.  The common greasewood of the western United States (Sarcobatus
vermiculatus).

3.  In the Philippines, the  sapodilla or its fruit; also, the
marmalade tree or its fruit.

CHICORY
Chic"o*ry, n. Etym: [F. chicorée, earlier also cichorée, L.
cichorium, fr. Gr. , , Cf. Succory.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A branching perennial plant (Cichorium Intybus) with bright
blue flowers, growing wild in Europe, Asia, and America; also
cultivated for its roots and as a salad plant; succory; wild endive.
See Endive.

2. The root, which is roasted for mixing with coffe.

CHICORY
Chi"co*ry, n.

Defn: See Chiccory.

CHIDE
Chide, v. t. Etym: [imp. Chid, or Chode (Obs.); p. p. Chidden, Chid;
p. pr. & vb. n. Chiding.] Etym: [AS. cidan; of unknown origin.]

1. To rebuke; to reprove; to scold; to find fault with.
Upbraided, chid, and rated at. Shak.

2. Fig.: To be noise about; to chafe against.
The sea that chides the banks of England. Shak.
To chide hither, chide from, or chide away, to cause to come, or to
drive away, by scolding or reproof.

Syn.
 -- To blame; rebuke; reprove; scold; censure; reproach; reprehend;
reprimand.

CHIDE
Chide, v. i.

1. To utter words of disapprobation and displeasure; to find fault;
to contend angrily.
Wherefore the people did chide with Moses. Ex. xvii. 2.

2. To make a clamorous noise; to chafe.
As doth a rock againts the chiding flood. Shak.

CHIDE
Chide, n. Etym: [AS. cid]

Defn: A continuous noise or murmur.
The chide of streams. Thomson.

CHIDER
Chid"er, n.

Defn: One who chides or quarrels. Shak.

CHIDERESS
Chid"er*ess, n.

Defn: She who chides. [Obs.]

CHIDESTER
Chide"ster, n. Etym: [Chide + -ster.]

Defn: A female scold. [Obs.]

CHIDINGLY
Chid"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a chiding or reproving manner.

CHIEF
Chief, n. Etym: [OE. chief, chef, OF. chief, F. chef, fr. L. caput
head, possibly akin to E. head. Cf. Captain, Chapter]

1. The head or leader of any body of men; a commander, as of an army;
a head man, as of a tribe, clan, or family; a person in authority who
directs the work of others; the pricipal actio or agent.

2. The principal part; the most valuable portion.
The chief of the things which should be utterly destroyed.1. Sam. xv.
21

3. (Her.)

Defn: The upper third part of the field. It is supposed to be
composed of the dexter, sinister, and middle chiefs. In chief. (a) At
the head; as, a commander in chief. (b) (Eng. Law) From the king, or
sovereign; as, tenure in chief, tenure directly from the king.

Syn.
 -- Chieftain; captain; general; commander; leader; head; principal;
sachem; sagamore; sheik.
 -- Chief, chieftain, Commander, Leader. These words fluctuate
somewhat in their meaning according to circumstances, but agree in
the general idea of rule and authority. The term chief is now more
usually applied to one who is a head man, leader, or commander in
civil or military affairs, or holds a hereditary or acquired rank in
a tribe or clan; as, the chief of police; the chief of an Indian
tribe. A chieftain is the chief of a clan or tribe , or a military
leader. A commander directs the movements of or has control over a
body of men, as a military or naval force. A leader is one whom men
follow, as in a political party, a legislative body, a military or
scientific expedition, etc., one who takes the command and gives
direction in particular enterprises.

CHIEF
Chief, a.

1. Highest in office or rank; principal; head. "Chief rulers." John.
xii. 42.

2. Principal or most eminent in any quality or action; most
distinguished; having most influence; taking the lead; most
important; as, the chief topic of conversation; the chief interest of
man.

3. Very intimate, near, or close. [Obs.]
A whisperer separateth chief friends. Prov. xvi. 28.

Syn.
 -- Principal; head; leading; main; paramount; supreme; prime; vital;
especial; great; grand; eminent; master.

CHIEFAGE
Chief"age, n. Etym: [OF. chevage, fr. chief head. See Chief.]

Defn: A tribute by the head; a capitation tax. [Written also chevage
and chivage.] [Obs.]

CHIEF BARON
Chief" bar"on. (Eng. Law)

Defn: The presiding judge of the court of exchequer.

CHIEFEST
Chief"est, a. Etym: [Superl. of Chief.]

Defn: First or foremost; chief; principal. [Archaic] "Our chiefest
courtier." Shak.
The chiefest among ten thousand. Canticles v. 10.

CHIEF HARE
Chief" hare`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small rodent (Lagamys princeps) inhabiting the summits of the
Rocky Mountains; -- also called crying hare, calling hare, cony,
American pika, and little chief hare.

Note: It is not a true hare or rabbit, but belongs to the curious
family Lagomyidæ.

CHIEF JUSTICE
Chief" jus"tice.

Defn: The presiding justice, or principal judge, of a court. Lord
Chief Justice of England, The presiding judge of the Queen's Bench
Division of the High Court of Justice. The highest judicial officer
of the realm is the Lord High Chancellor.
 -- Chief Justice of the United States, the presiding judge of the
Supreme Court, and Highest judicial officer of the republic.

CHIEF-JUSTICESHIP
Chief"-jus"tice*ship, n.

Defn: The office of chief justice.
Jay selected the chief-justiceship as most in accordance with his
tastes. The Century.

CHIEFLESS
Chief"less, a.

Defn: Without a chief or leader.

CHIEFLY
Chief"ly, adv.

1. In the first place; principally; preëminently; above; especially.
Search through this garden; leave unsearched no nook; But chiefly
where those two fair creatures lodge. Milton.

2. For the most part; mostly.
Those parts of the kingdom where the . . . estates of the dissenters
chiefly lay. Swift.

CHIEFRIE
Chief"rie, n.

Defn: A small rent paid to the lord paramount. [Obs.] Swift.

CHIEFTAIN
Chief"tain, n. Etym: [OE. cheftayn, chevetayn, OF. chevetain, F.
capitaine, LL. capitanus, fr. L. caput head. Cf. Captain, and see
chief.]

Defn: A captain, leader, or commander; a chief; the head of a troop,
army, or clan.

Syn.
 -- Chief; commander; leader; head. See Chief.

CHIEFTAINCY; CHIEFTAINSHIP
Chief"tain*cy, Chief"tain*ship, n.

Defn: The rank, dignity, or office of a chieftain.

CHIERTE
Chier"te, n. Etym: [OF. cherté. See Charity.]

Defn: Love; tender regard. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHIEVANCE
Chiev"ance, n. Etym: [OF. chevance property, equiv. To chevisance,
fr. chevir to accomplish. See Chevisance.]

Defn: An unlawful bargain; traffic in which money is exported as
discount. [Obs.] Bacon.

CHIEVE
Chieve, v. i.

Defn: See Cheve, v. i. [Obs.]

CHIFF-CHAFF
Chiff"-chaff (, n. Etym: [So called from its note.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of European warbler (Sylvia hippolais); -- called
also chip-chap, and pettychaps.

CHIFFON
Chif`fon", n. [F., lit., rag. See Chiffonier.]

1.

Defn: Any merely ornamental adjunct of a woman's dress, as a bunch of
ribbon, lace, etc.

2.  A kind of soft gauzy material used for ruches, trimmings, etc.

CHIFFONIER; CHIFFONIERE
Chif`fo*nier", fem. Chif`fo-nière", n. Etym: [F. chiffonnier, fem.
chiffonnière, fr. chiffon rag, fr. chiffe a rag, fimsy cloth.]

1. One who gathers rags and odds and ends; a ragpicker.

2. A receptacle for rags or shreds.

3. A movable and ornamental closet or piece of furniture with shelves
or drawers. G. Eliot.

CHIGNON
Chi"gnon (, n. Etym: [F., prop. equiv. to chaînon link, fr. chaîne
chain, fr. L. catena Cf. Chain.]

Defn: A knot, boss, or mass of hair, natural or artificial, worn by a
woman at the back of the head.
A curl that had strayed from her chignon. H. James.

CHIGOE; CHIGRE
Chig"oe, Chig"re, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chigue, perh. fr. Catalan chic
small, Sp. chico; or of Peruvian origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of flea (Pulex penetrans), common in the West Indies
and South America, which often attacks the feet or any exposed part
of the human body, and burrowing beneath the skin produces great
irritation. When the female is allowed to remain and breed,
troublesome sores result, which are sometimes dangerous. See Jigger.
[Written also chegre, chegoe, chique, chigger, jigger.]

Note: The name is sometimes erroneously given to certain mites or
ticks having similar habits.

CHIH FU
Chih" fu`. [Chin. chih fu, lit., (He who) knows (the) prefecture.]

Defn: An official administering a prefecture of China; a prefect,
supervising the civil business of the hsiens or districts comprised
in his fu (which see).

CHIH HSIEN
Chih" hsien`. [Chin. chih hsien, lit., (He who) knows (the)
district.]

Defn: An official having charge of a hsien, or administrative
district, in China; a district magistrate, responsible for good order
in his hsien (which see), and having jurisdiction in its civil and
criminal cases.

CHIH TAI
Chih" tai`. [Chin. chih to govern + t"ai an honorary title.]

Defn: A Chinese governor general; a tsung tu (which see).

CHIKARA
Chi*ka"ra (, n. Etym: [Hind.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The Ingoat antelope (Tragops Bennettii) Of India.
(b) The Indian four-horned antelope (Tetraceros quadricornis).

CHILBLAIN
Chil"blain`, n. Etym: [Chill + Blain.]

Defn: A blain, sore, or inflammatory swelling, produced by exposure
of the feet or hands to cold, and attended by itching, pain, and
sometimes ulceration.

CHILBLAIN
Chil"blain`, v. t.

Defn: To produce chilblains upon.

CHILD
Child, n.; pl. Children. Etym: [AS. cild, pl. cildru; cf. Goth.
kilÞei womb, in-kilÞ\'d3 with child.]

1. A son or a daughter; a male or female descendant, in the first
degree; the immediate progeny of human parents; -- in law, legitimate
offspring. Used also of animals and plants.

2. A descendant, however remote; -- used esp. in the plural; as, the
children of Israel; the children of Edom.

3. One who, by character of practice, shows signs of relationship to,
or of the influence of, another; one closely connected with a place,
occupation, character, etc.; as, a child of God; a child of the
devil; a child of disobedience; a child of toil; a child of the
people.

4. A noble youth. See Childe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

5. A young person of either sex. esp. one between infancy and youth;
hence, one who exhibits the characteristics of a very young person,
as innocence, obedience, trustfulness, limited understanding, etc.
When I was child. I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I
thought as a child; but when I became a man, I put away childish
things. 1. Cor. xii. 11.

6. A female infant. [Obs.]
A boy or a child, I wonder Shak.
To be with child, to be pregnant.
 -- Child's play, light work; a trifling contest.

CHILD
Child, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Childed; p. pr. & vb. n. Childing.]

Defn: To give birth; to produce young.
This queen Genissa childing died. Warner.
It chanced within two days they childed both. Latimer.

CHILDBEARING
Child"bear`ing, n.

Defn: The act of producing or bringing forth children; parturition.
Milton. Addison.

CHILDBED
Child"bed, n.

Defn: The state of a woman bringing forth a child, or being in labor;
parturition.

CHILDBIRTH
Child"birth, n.

Defn: The act of bringing forth a child; travail; labor. Jer. Taylor.

CHILDCROWING
Child"crow`ing, n. (Med.)

Defn: The crowing noise made by children affected with spasm of the
laryngeal muscles; false croup.

CHILDE
Childe, n.

Defn: A cognomen formerly prefixed to his name by the oldest son,
until he succeeded to his ancestral titles, or was knighted; as,
Childe Roland.

CHILDED
Child"ed, a.

Defn: Furnished with a child. [Obs.]

CHILDERMAS DAY
Chil"dermas day`. Etym: [AS. cildamæsse-dæg; cild child +dæg day.]
(Eccl.)

Defn: A day (December 28) observed by mass or festival in
commemoration of the children slain by Herod at Bethlehem; -- called
also Holy Innocent's Day.

CHILDHOOD
Child"hood, n. Etym: [AS. cildhad; cild child + -had. See Child, and
hood.]

1. The state of being a child; the time in which persons are
children; the condition or time from infancy to puberty.
I have walked before you from my childhood. 1. Sam. xii. 2.

2. Children, taken collectively. [R.]
The well-governed childhood of this realm. Sir. W. Scott.

3. The commencement; the first period.
The childhood of our joy. Shak.
Second childhood, the state of being feeble and incapable from old
age.

CHILDING
Child"ing, a. Etym: [See Child, v. i.]

Defn: Bearing Children; (Fig.) productive; fruitful. [R.] Shak.

CHILDISH
Child"ish, a.

1. Of, pertaining to, befitting, or resembling, a child. "Childish
innocence." Macaulay.

2. Peurile; trifling; weak.
Methinks that simplicity in her countenance is rather childish than
innocent. Addison.

Note: Childish, as applied tc persons who are grown up, is in a
disparaging sense; as, a childish temper.

CHILDISHLY
Child"ish*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a child; in a trifling way; in a weak or
foolish manner.

CHILDISHNESS
Child"ish*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being childish; simplicity;
harmlessness; weakness of intellect.

CHILDLESSNESS
Child"less*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being childless.

CHILDLIKE
Child"like, a.

Defn: Resembling a child, or that which belongs to children; becoming
a child; meek; submissive; dutiful. "Childlike obedience." Hooker.

Note: Childlike, as applied to persons grown up, is commonly in a
good sense; as, childlike grace or simplicity; childlike modesty.

CHILDLY
Child"ly, a.

Defn: Having tthe character of a child; belonging, or appropriate, to
a child. Gower.

CHILDLY
Child"ly, adv.

Defn: Like a child. Mrs. Browning.

CHILDNESS
Child"ness, n.

Defn: The manner characteristic of a child. [Obs.] "Varying
childness." Shak.

CHILDREN
Chil"dren, n.;

Defn: pl. of Child.

CHILDSHIP
Child"ship, n.

Defn: The state or relation of being a child.

CHILD STUDY
Child study.

Defn: A scientific study of children, undertaken for the purpose of
discovering the laws of development of the body and the mind from
birth to manhood.

CHILEAN
Chil"e*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Chile.

CHILEAN
Chil"e*an, n.

Defn: A native or resident of Chile; Chilian.

CHILEAN PINE
Chilean pine. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Monkey-puzzle.

CHILI
Chil"i, n. Etym: [Sp. chili, chile.]

Defn: A kind of red pepper. See Capsicum [Written also chilli and
chile.]

CHILIAD
Chil"i*ad, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A thousand; the aggregate of a thousand things; especially, a
period of a thousand years.
The world, then in the seventh chiliad, will be assumed up unto God.
Sir. T. More.

CHILIAGON
Chil"i*a*gon, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A plane figure of a thousand angles and sides. Barlow.

CHILIAHEDRON
Chil"i*a*hedron, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A figure bounded by a thousand plane surfaces [Spelt also
chiliaëdron.]

CHILIAN
Chil"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Chili.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or citizen of Chili.

CHILIAN; CHILIARCH
Chil"i*an, Chil"i*arch`, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The commander or chief of a thousand men.

CHILIARCHY
Chil"i*arch`y, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A body consisting of a thousand men. Mitford.

CHILIASM
Chil"i*asm, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. The millennium.

2. The doctrine of the personal reign of Christ on earth during the
millennium.

CHILIAST
Chil"i*ast, n. Etym: [Gr. Chiliasm.]

Defn: One who believes in the second coming of Christ to reign on
earth a thousand years; a milllenarian.

CHILIASTIC
Chili*astic, a.

Defn: Millenarian. "The obstruction offered by the chiliastic
errors." J. A. Alexander.

CHILL
Chill, n. Etym: [AS. cele, cyle, from the same root as celan, calan,
to be cold; akin to D. kil cold, coldness, Sw. kyla to chill, and E.
cool. See Cold, and cf. Cool.]

1. A moderate but disagreeable degree of cold; a disagreeable
sensation of coolness, accompanied with shivering. "[A] wintry
chill." W. Irving.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A sensation of cold with convulsive shaking of the body,
pinched face, pale skin, and blue lips, caused by undue cooling of
the body or by nervous excitement, or forming the precursor of some
constitutional disturbance, as of a fever.

3. A check to enthusiasm or warmth of feeling; discouragement; as, a
chill comes over an assemblly.

4. An iron mold or portion of a mold, serving to cool rapidly, and so
to harden, the surface of molten iron brought in contact with it.
Raymond.

5. The hardened part of a casting, as the tread of a car wheel.
Knight. Chill and fever, fever and ague.

CHILL
Chill, a.

1. Moderately cold; tending to cause shivering; chilly; raw.
Noisome winds, and blasting vapors chill. Milton.

2. Affected by cold. "My veins are chill." Shak.

3. Characterized by coolness of manner, feeling, etc.; lacking
enthusiasm or warmth; formal; distant; as, a chill reception.

4. Discouraging; depressing; dispiriting.

CHILL
Chill, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chilled (chìld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Chilling.]

1. To strike with a chill; to make chilly; to cause to shiver; to
affect with cold.
When winter chilled the day. Goldsmith.

2. To check enthusiasm or warmth of feeling of; to depress; to
discourage.
Every thought on God chills the gayety of his spirits. Rogers.

3. (Metal.)

Defn: To produce, by sudden cooling, a change of crystallization at
or near the surface of, so as to increase the hardness; said of cast
iron.

CHILL
Chill, v. i. (Metal.)

Defn: To become surface-hardened by sudden cooling while solidifying;
as, some kinds of cast iron chill to a greater depth than others.

CHILLED
Chilled, a.

1. Hardened on the surface or edge by chilling; as, chilled iron; a
chilled wheel.

2. (Paint.)

Defn: Having that cloudiness or dimness of surface that is called
"blooming."

CHILLI
Chil"li, n.

Defn: See Chili.

CHILLINESS
Chill"i*ness, n.

1. A state or sensation of being chilly; a disagreeable sensation of
coldness.

2. A moderate degree of coldness; disagreeable coldness or rawness;
as, the chilliness of the air.

3. Formality; lack of warmth.

CHILLING
Chill"ing, a.

Defn: Making chilly or cold; depressing; discouraging; cold; distant;
as, a chilling breeze; a chilling manner.
 -- Chill"ing"ly, adv.

CHILLNESS
Chill"ness, n.

Defn: Coolness; coldness; a chill.
Death is the chillness that precedes the dawn. Longfellow.

CHILLY
Chill"y, a.

Defn: Moderately cold; cold and raw or damp so as to cause shivering;
causing or feeling a disagreeable sensation of cold, or a shivering.

CHILOGNATH
Chi"log*nath, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A myriapod of the order Chilognatha.

CHILOGNATHA
Chi*log"na*tha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the two principal orders of myriapods. They have
numerous segments, each bearing two pairs of small, slender legs,
which are attached ventrallly, near together.

CHILOMA
Chi*lo"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oma.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The tumid upper lip of certain mammals, as of a camel.

CHILOPOD
Chi"lo*pod, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A myriapod of the order Chilopoda.

CHILOPODA
Chi*lop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the orders of myriapods, including the centipeds. They
have a single pair of elongated legs attached laterally to each
segment; well developed jaws; and a pair of thoracic legs converted
into poison fangs. They are insectivorous, very active, and some
species grow to the length of a foot.

CHILOSTOMA; CHILOSTOMATA
Chi*los"to*ma, Chi*lo*stom"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive suborder of marine Bryozoa, mostly with calcareous
shells. They have a movable lip and a lid to close the aperture of
the cells. [Also written Chillostomata.]

CHILOSTOMATOUS
Chi`lo*stoma*tous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Chilostoma.

CHILTERN HUNDREDS
Chiltern Hundreds. Etym: [AS. Chiltern the Chiltern, high hills in
Buckinghamshire, perh. Fr. ceald cold + ern, ærn, place.]

Defn: A tract of crown land in Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire,
England, to which is attached the nominal office of steward. As
members of Parliament cannot resign, when they wish to go out they
accept this stewardship, which legally vacates their seats.

CHIMAERA
Chi*mæ"ra, n. Etym: [NL. See Chimera.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cartilaginous fish of several species, belonging to the order
Holocephali. The teeth are few and large. The head is furnished with
appendages, and the tail terminates in a point.

CHIMAEROID
Chi*mæ"roid, a. Etym: [Chimæra + old.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Related to, or like, the chimæra.

CHIMANGO
Chi*man"go Etym: [Native name] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A south American carrion buzzard (Milvago chimango). See
Caracara.

CHIMB
Chimb (chim), n. Etym: [AS. cim, in cimstan base of a pillar; akin to
D. kim, f. Sw. kim., G. kimme f.]

Defn: The edge of a cask, etc; a chine. See Chine, n., 3. [Written
also hime.]

CHIMB
Chimb, v. i.

Defn: Chime. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHIME
Chime, n. Etym: [See Chimb.]

Defn: See Chine, n., 3.

CHIME
Chime, n. Etym: [OE. chimbe, prop., cymbal, OF. cymbe, cymble, in a
dialectic form, chymble, F. cymbale, L. cymbalum, fr. Gr. Cymbal.]

1. The harmonious sound of bells, or of musical instruments.
Instruments that made melodius chime. Milton.

2. A set of bells musically tuned to each other; specif., in the pl.,
the music performed on such a set of bells by hand, or produced by
mechanism to accompany the striking of the hours or their divisions.
We have heard the chimes at midnight. Shak.

3. Pleasing correspondence of proportion, relation, or sound. "Chimes
of verse." Cowley.

CHIME
Chime, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chimed; p. pr. & vb. n. Chiming.] Etym:
[See Chime, n.]

1. To sound in harmonious accord, as bells.

2. To be in harmony; to agree; to sut; to harmonize; to correspond;
to fall in with.
Everything chimed in with such a humor. W. irving.

3. To join in a conversation; to express assent; -- followed by in or
in with. [Colloq.]

4. To make a rude correspondence of sounds; to jingle, as in rhyming.
Cowley

CHIME
Chime, v. i.

1. To cause to sound in harmony; to play a tune, as upon a set of
bells; to move or strike in harmony.
And chime their sounding hammers. Dryden.

2. To utter harmoniously; to recite rhythmically.
Chime his childish verse. Byron.

CHIMER
Chim"er, n.

Defn: One who chimes.

CHIMERA
Chime"ra, n.; pl. Chimeras. Etym: [L. chimaera a chimera (in sense
1), Gr. qymbr a yearling ewe.]

1. (Myth.)

Defn: A monster represented as vomiting flames, and as having the
head of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a dragon. "Dire
chimeras and enchanted isles." Milton.

2. A vain, foolish, or incongruous fancy, or creature of the
imagination; as, the chimera of an author. Burke.

CHIMERE
Chi*mere", n. Etym: [OF. chamarre., F. simarre (cf. It. zimarra), fr.
Sp. chamarra, zamarra, a coat made of sheepskins, a sheepskin, perh.
from Ar. sammur the Scythian weasel or marten, the sable. Cf.
Simarre.]

Defn: The upper robe worn by a bishop, to which lawn sleeves are
usually attached. Hook.

CHIMERIC
Chi*mer"ic, a.

Defn: Chimerical.

CHIMERICAL
Chi*mer"ic*al, a.

Defn: Merely imaginary; fanciful; fantastic; wildly or vainly
conceived; having, or capable of having, no existence except in
thought; as, chimerical projects.

Syn.
 -- Imaginary; fanciful; fantastic; wild; unfounded; vain; deceitful;
delusive.

CHIMERICALLY
Chi*mer"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Wildy; vainly; fancifully.

CHIMINAGE
Chim"i*nage, n. Etym: [OF. cheminage, fr. chemin way, road.] (Old
Law)

Defn: A toll for passage through a forest. [Obs.] Cowell.

CHIMNEY
Chim"ney, n.; pl. Chimneys. Etym: [F. cheminée, LL. caminata, fr. L.
caminus furnace, fireplace, Gr.

1. A fireplace or hearth. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.

2. That part of a building which contains the smoke flues; esp. an
upright tube or flue of brick or stone, in most cases extending
through or above the roof of the building. Often used instead of
chimney shaft.
Hard by a cottage chimney smokes. Milton.

3. A tube usually of glass, placed around a flame, as of a lamp, to
create a draft, and promote combustion.

4. (Min.)

Defn: A body of ore, usually of elongated form, extending downward in
a vein. Raymond. Chimney board, a board or screen used to close a
fireplace; a fireboard.
 -- Chimney cap, a device to improve the draught of a chimney, by
presenting an exit aperture always to leeward.
 -- Chimney corner, the space between the sides of the fireplace and
the fire; hence, the fireside.
 -- Chimney hook, a hook for holding pats and kettles over a fire, --
Chimney money, hearth money, a duty formerly paid in England for each
chimney.
 -- Chimney pot (Arch.), a cylinder of earthenware or sheet metal
placed at the top of a chimney which rises above the roof.
 -- Chimney swallow. (Zoöl.) (a) An American swift (Chæture
pelasgica) which lives in chimneys. (b) In England, the common
swallow (Hirundo rustica).
 -- Chimney sweep, Chimney sweeper, one who cleans chimneys of soot;
esp. a boy who climbs the flue, and brushes off the soot.

CHIMNEY-BREAST
Chim"ney-breast`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The horizontal projection of a chimney from the wall in which
it is built; -- commonly applied to its projection in the inside of a
building only.

CHIMNEY-PIECE
Chim"ney-piece`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A decorative construction around the opning of a fireplace.

CHIMPANZEE
Chim*pan"zee, n. Etym: [From the native name: cf. F. chimpanzé,
chimpansé, chimpanzée.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An african ape (Anthropithecus troglodytes or Troglodytes
niger) which approaches more nearly to man, in most respects, than
any other ape. When full grown, it is from three to four feet high.

CHIN
Chin, n. Etym: [AS. cin, akin to OS. kin, G kinn, Icel. kinn, cheek,
Dan. & Sw. kind, L. gena, Gr. hanu. *232.]

1. The lower extremity of the face below the mouth; the point of the
under jaw.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The exterior or under surface embraced between the branches of
the lower jaw bone, in birds.

CHINA
Chi"na, n.

1. A country in Eastern Asia.

2. China ware, which is the modern popular term for porcelain. See
Porcelain. China aster (Bot.), a well-known garden flower and plant.
See Aster.
 -- China bean. See under Bean, 1.
 -- China clay See Kaolin.
 -- China grass, Same as Ramie.
 -- China ink. See India ink.
 -- China pink (Bot.), an anual or biennial species of Dianthus (D.
Chiensis) having variously colored single or double flowers; Indian
pink.
 -- China root (Med.), the rootstock of a species of Smilax (S.
China, from the East Indies; -- formerly much esteemed for the
purposes that sarsaparilla is now used for. Also the galanga root
(from Alpinia Gallanga and Alpinia officinarum).
 -- China rose. (Bot.) (a) A popular name for several free-blooming
varieties of rose derived from the Rosa Indica, and perhaps other
species. (b) A flowering hothouse plant (Hibiscus Rosa-Sinensis) of
the Mallow family, common in the gardens of China and the east
Indies.
 -- China shop, a shop or store for the sale of China ware or of
crockery.
 -- China ware, porcelain; -- so called in the 17th century because
brought from the far East, and differing from the pottery made in
Europa at that time; also, loosely, crockery in general.
 -- Pride of China, China tree. (Bot.) See Azedarach.

CHINALDINE
Chin*al"dine, n. Etym: [NL. chinium quinine + aldehyde.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Quinaldine.

CHINAMAN
Chi"na*man, n.; pl. Chinamen (.

Defn: A native of China; a Chinese.

CHINCAPIN
Chin"ca*pin, n.

Defn: See Chinquapin.

CHINCH
Chinch, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. chinche, fr. L. cimex.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bedbug (Cimex lectularius).

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bug (Blissus leucopterus), which, in the United States, is
very destructive to grass, wheat, and other grains; -- also called
chiniz, chinch bug, chink bug. It resembles the bedbug in its
disgusting odor.

CHINCHA
Chin"cha, n. Etym: [Cf. Chinchilla.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A south American rodent of the genus Lagotis.

CHINCHE
Chinche, a. Etym: [F. chiche miserly.]

Defn: Parsimonious; niggardly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHINCHERIE
Chinch"er*ie, n.

Defn: Penuriousness. [Obs.]
By cause of his skarsete and chincherie. Caucer.

CHINCHILLA
Chin*chil"la, n. Etym: [Sp.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small rodent (Chinchilla lanigera), of the size of a large
squirrel, remarkable for its fine fur, which is very soft and of a
pearly gray color. It is a native of Peru and Chili.

2. The fur of the chinchilla.

3. A heavy, longnapped, tufted woolen cloth.

CHINCHONA; CHINCONA
Chin*cho"na, Chin*co"na.

Defn: See Cinchona.

CHIN COUGH
Chin" cough". Etym: [For chink cough; cf. As. cincung long laughter,
Scot. kink a violent fit of coughing, akin to MHG. kichen to pant.
Cf. Kinknaust, Cough.]

Defn: Whooping cough.

CHINE
Chine, n. Etym: [Cf. Chink.]

Defn: A chink or cleft; a narrow and deep ravine; as, Shanklin Chine
in the Isle of Wight, a quarter of a mile long and 230 feet deep.
[Prov. Eng.] "The cottage in a chine." J. Ingelow.

CHINE
Chine, n.Etym: [OF. eschine, F. échine, fr. OHG. skina needle,
prickle, shin, G. schiene splint, schienbein shin. For the meaning
cf. L. spina thorn, prickle, or spine, the backbone. Cf. Shin.]

1. The backbone or spine of an animal; the back. "And chine with
rising bristles roughly spread." Dryden.

2. A piece of the backbone of an animal, with the adjoining parts,
cut for cooking.

Note: [See Illust. of Beef.]

3. The edge or rim of a cask, etc., formed by the projecting ends of
the staves; the chamfered end of a stave.

CHINE
Chine, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chined.]

1. To cut through the backbone of; to cut into chine pieces.

2. Too chamfer the ends of a stave and form the chine..

CHINED
Chined, a.

1. Pertaining to, or having, a chine, or backbone; -- used in
composition. Beau. & Fl.

2. Broken in the back. [Obs.]
He's chined, goodman. Beau. & Fl.

CHINESE
Chi"nese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to China; peculiar to China. Chinese paper.
See India paper, under India.
 -- Chinese wax, a snowy-wgite, waxlike substance brought from China.
It is the bleached secretion of certain insects of the family Coccidæ
especially Coccus Sinensis.

CHINESE
Chi*nese", n. sing. & pl.

1. A native or natives of China, or one of that yellow race with
oblique eyelids who live principally in China.

2. sing.

Defn: The language of China, which is monosyllabic.

Note: Chineses was used as a plural by the contemporaries of
Shakespeare and Milton.

CHINESE EXCLUSION ACT
Chinese Exclusion Act.

Defn: Any of several acts forbidding the immigration of Chinese
laborers into the United States, originally from 1882 to 1892 by act
of May 6, 1882, then from 1892 to 1902 by act May 5, 1892. By act of
April 29, 1902, all existing legislation on the subject was reënacted
and continued, and made applicable to the insular possessions of the
United States.

CHINK
Chink, n. Etym: [OE. chine, AS. cine fissure, chink, fr. cinan to
gape; akin to Goth. Keinan to sprout, G. keimen. Cf. Chit.]

Defn: A small cleft, rent, or fissure, of greater length than
breadth; a gap or crack; as, the chinks of wall.
Through one cloudless chink, in a black, stormy sky. Shines out the
dewy morning star. Macaulay.

CHINK
Chink, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chinked; p. pr. & vb. n. Chinking.]

Defn: To crack; to open.

CHINK
Chink, v. t.

1. To cause to open in cracks or fissures.

2. To fill up the chinks of; as, to chink a wall.

CHINK
Chink, n. Etym: [Of imitative origin. Cf. Jingle.]

1. A short, sharp sound, as of metal struck with a slight degree of
violence. "Chink of bell." Cowper.

2. Money; cash. [Cant] "To leave his chink to better hands."
Somerville.

CHINK
Chink, v. t.

Defn: To cause to make a sharp metallic sound, as coins, small pieces
of metal, etc., by bringing them into collision with each other.
Pope.

CHINK
Chink, v. i.

Defn: To make a slight, sharp, metallic sound, as by the collision of
little pieces of money, or other small sonorous bodies. Arbuthnot.

CHINKY
Chink"y, a.

Defn: Full of chinks or fissures; gaping; opening in narrow clefts.
Dryden.

CHINNED
Chinned, a.

Defn: Having a chin; -- used chiefly in compounds; as, short-chinned.

CHINOIDINE
Chi*noid"ine, n. Etym: [NL. chinium quinine (cf. G. & F. china
Peruvian bark) + --oil + -ine.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Quinodine.

CHINOISERIE
Chi`noi`se*rie" (she`nwa`z'*re"), n. [F.]

Defn: Chinese conduct, art, decoration, or the like; also, a specimen
of Chinese manners, art, decoration, etc.

CHINOLINE
Chin"o*line, n. Etym: [NL. chinium quinine (see Chinoldine) + L.
oleum oil + -ine.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Quinoline.

CHINONE
Chi"none, n. Etym: [NL. chinium quinine (see Chinoidine.) + -one.]
(Chem.)

Defn: See Quinone.

CHINOOK
Chi*nook", n.

1. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of a tribe of North American Indians now living in the
state of Washington, noted for the custom of flattening their skulls.
Chinooks also called Flathead Indians.

2. A warm westerly wind from the country of the Chinooks, sometimes
experienced on the slope of the Rocky Mountains, in Montana and the
adjacent territory.

3. A jargon of words from various languages (the largest proportion
of which is from that of the Chinooks) generally understood by all
the Indian tribes of the northwestern territories of the United
States.

CHINOOK STATE
Chi*nook" State.

Defn: Washington -- a nickname. See Chinook, n.

CHINQUAPIN
Chin"qua*pin, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A branching, nut-bearing tree or shrub (Castanea pumila) of
North America, from six to twenty feet high, allied to the chestnut.
Also, its small, sweet, edible nat. [Written also chincapin and
chinkapin.] Chinquapin oak, a small shrubby oak (Quercus prinoides)
of the Atlantic States, with edible acorns.
 -- Western Chinquapin, an evergreen shrub or tree (Castanopes
chrysophylla) of the Pacific coast. In California it is a shrub; in
Oregon a tree 30 to 125 feet high.

CHINSE
Chinse, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Chinsed; p. pr. & vb. n. Chinsing.]
(Naut.)

Defn: To thrust oakum into (seams or chinks) with a chisel , the
point of a knife, or a chinsing iron; to calk slightly. Chinsing
iron, a light calking iron.

CHINTZ
Chintz, n.; pl. Chintzes. Etym: [Hindi chint spotted cotton clooth,
chinta spot.]

Defn: Cotton cloth, printed with flowers and other devices, in a
number of different colors, and often glazed. Swift.

CHIOPPINE
Chiop*pine", n.

Defn: Same as Chopine, n.

CHIP
Chip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chipped; p. pr. & vb. n. Chipping.] Etym:
[Cf. G. kippen to cut off the edge, to clip, pare. Cf. Chop to cut.]

1. To cut small pieces from; to diminsh or reduce to shape, by
cutting away a little at a time; to hew. Shak.

2. To break or crack, or crack off a portion of, as of an eggshell in
hatching, or a piece of crockery.

3. To bet, as with chips in the game of poker. To chip in, to
contribute, as to a fund; to share in the risks or expenses of.
[Slang. U. S.]

CHIP
Chip, v. i.

Defn: To break or fly off in small pieces.

CHIP
Chip, n.

1. A piece of wood, stone, or other substance, separated by an ax,
chisel, or cutting instrument.

2. A fragment or piece broken off; a small piece.

3. Wood or Cuban palm leaf split into slips, or straw plaited in a
special manner, for making hats or bonnets.

4. Anything dried up, withered, or without flavor; -- used
contemptuously.

5. One of the counters used in poker and other games.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: The triangular piece of wood attached to the log line. Buffalo
chips. See under Buffalo.
 -- Chip ax, a small ax for chipping timber into shape.
 -- Chip bonnet, Chip hat, a bonnet or a hat made of Chip. See Chip,
n., 3.
 -- A chip off the old block, a child who resembles either of his
parents. [Colloq.] Milton.- Potato chips, Saratoga chips, thin slices
of raw potato fried crisp.

CHIPMUNK
Chip"munk`, n. Etym: [Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A squirrel-like animal of the genus Tamias, sometimes called
the striped squirrel, chipping squirrel, ground squirrel, hackee. The
common species of the United States is the Tamias striatus. [Written
also chipmonk, chipmuck, and chipmuk.]

CHIPPENDALE
Chip"pen*dale, a.

Defn: Designating furniture designed, or like that designed, by
Thomas Chippendale, an English cabinetmaker of the 18th century.
Chippendale furniture was generally of simple but graceful outline
with delicately carved rococo ornamentation, sculptured either in the
solid wood or, in the cheaper specimens, separately and glued on. In
the more elaborate pieces three types are recognized: French
Chippendale, having much detail, like Louis Quatorze and Louis
Quinze; Chinese Chippendale, marked by latticework and pagodalike
pediments; and Gothic Chippendale, attempting to adapt medieval
details. The forms, as of the cabriole and chairbacks, often resemble
Queen Anne. In chairs, the seat is widened at the front, and the back
toward the top widened and bent backward, except in Chinese
Chippendale, in which the backs are usually rectangular. --
Chip"pen*dal*ism (#), n.

It must be clearly and unmistakably understood, then, that, whenever
painted (that is to say, decorated with painted enrichment) or inlaid
furniture is described as Chippendale, no matter where or by whom, it
is a million chances to one that the description is incorrect.
R. D. Benn.

CHIPPER
Chip"per, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Cheep, Chirp.]

Defn: To chirp or chirrup. [ Prov. Eng.] Forby.

CHIPPER
Chip"per, a.

Defn: Lively; cheerful; talkative. [U. S.]

CHIPPEWAYS
Chip"pe*ways, n. pl.; sing. Chippeway. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the northern and
weastern shores of Lake Superior; -- called also Objibways.

CHIPPING
Chip"ping, n.

1. A chip; a piece separated by a cutting or graving instrument; a
fragment.

2. The act or process of cutting or breaking off small pieces, as in
dressing iron with a chisel, or reducing a timber or block of stone
to shape.

3. The breaking off in small pieces of the edges of potter's ware,
porcelain, etc.

CHIPPING BIRD
Chip"ping bird`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The chippy.

CHIPPING SQUIRREL
Chip"ping squir"rel.

Defn: See Chipmunk.

CHIPPY
Chip"py, a.

Defn: Abounding in, or resembling, chips; dry and tasteless.

CHIPPY
Chip"py, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small American sparrow (Spizella socialis), very common near
dwelling; -- also called chipping bird and chipping sparrow, from its
simple note.

CHIPS
Chips, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A ship's carpenter. [Cant.]

CHIRAGRA
Chi*ra"gra, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Gout in the hand.

CHIRAGRICAL
Chi*rag"ric*al, a.

Defn: Having the gout in the hand, or subject to that disease. Sir.
T. Browne.

CHIRETTA
Chi*ret"ta, n. Etym: [Hind. chira\'c6ta.]

Defn: A plant (Agathotes Chirayta) found in Northern India, having
medicinal properties to the gentian, and esteemed as a tonic and
febrifuge.

CHIRK
Chirk, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Chirp, also Creak.]

1. To shriek; to gnash; to utter harsh or shrill cries. [Obs.]
All full of chirkyng was that sorry place. Cheucer.

2. To chirp like a bird. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHIRK
Chirk, v. t.

Defn: To cheer; to enliven; as, to chirk one up. [Colloq. New Eng. ]

CHIRK
Chirk, a. Etym: [From Chirk, v. i.]

Defn: Lively; cheerful; in good spirits. [Colloq. New Eng.]

CHIRM
Chirm, v. i. Etym: [Cf. AS. cyrman, cirman, to cry out. *24 Cf.
Chirp.]

Defn: To chirp or to make a mournful cry, as a bird. [Obs.] Huloet.

CHIROGNOMY
Chi*rog"no*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The art of judging character by the shape and apperance of the
hand.

CHIROGRAPH
Chi"ro*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. (Old. Law)
(a) A writing which, reguiring a counterpart, was engrossed twice on
the same piece of parchment, with a space between, in which was
written the word chirographum, through which the parchment was cut,
and one part given to each party. It answered to what is now called a
charter party.
(b) The last part of a fine of land, commonly called the foot of the
fine. Bouvier.

CHIROGRAPHER
Chi*rog"ra*pher, n.

1. One who practice the art or business of writing or engrossing.

2. See chirographist, 2. Chirographer of fines (Old Eng. Law), an
officer in the court of common pleas, who engrossed fines.

CHIROGRAPHIC; CHIROGRAPHICAL
Chi`ro*graph"ic, Chi`ro*graph"ic*al a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to chirography.

CHIROGRAPHIST
Chi*rog"ra*phist, n.

1. A chirographer; a writer or engrosser.

2. One who tells fortunes by examining the hand.

CHIROGRAPHY
Chi*rog"ra*phy, n.

1. The art of writing or engrossing; handwriting; as, skilled in
chirography.

2. The art of telling fortunes by examining the hand.

CHIROGYMNAST
Chi`ro*gym"nast, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A mechanocal contrivance for exercesing the fingers of a
pianist.

CHIROLOGICAL
Chi`ro*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to chirology.

CHIROLOGIST
Chi*rol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who communicates thoughts by signs made with the hands and
fingers.

CHIROLOGY
Chi*rol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The art or practice of using the manual alphabet or of
communicating thoughts by sings made by the hands and fingers; a
substitute for spoken or written language in intercourse with the
deaf and dumb. See Dactylalogy.

CHIROMANCER
Chi"ro*man`cer, n.

Defn: One who practices chiromancy. Dryden.

CHIROMANCY
Chi"ro*mancy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: The art or practice of foretelling events, or of telling the
fortunes or the disposition of persons by inspecting the hand;
palmistry.

CHIROMANIST; CHIROMANTIST
Chi"ro*man`ist, Chi"ro*man`tist n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A chiromancer.

CHIROMANTIC; CHIROMANTICAL
Chi`ro*man"tic, Chi`ro*man"tic*al a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to chiromancy.

CHIROMONIC
Chi`ro*mon"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to chironomy.

CHIRONOMY
Chi*ron"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The art of moving the hands in oratory or in pantomime; gesture
[Obs.]

CHIROPLAST
Chi"ro*plast, n. Etym: [Gr. (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument to guid the hands and fingers of pupils in
playing on the piano, etc.

CHIROPODIST
Chi*rop"o*dist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who treats diseases of the hands and feet; especially, one
who removes corns and bunions.

CHIROPODY
Chirop"ody, n.

Defn: The art of treating diseases of the hands and feet.

CHIROSOPHIST
Chiros"ophist, n. Etym: [Gr. Sophist.]

Defn: A fortune teller.

CHIRP
Chirp, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chirped; p. pr. & vb. n. Chirping.] Etym:
[Of imitative orgin. Cf. Chirk, Chipper, Cheep, Chirm, Chirrup.]

Defn: To make a shop, sharp, cheerful, as of small birds or crickets.

CHIRP
Chirp, n.

Defn: A short, sharp note, as of a bird or insect. "The chirp of
flitting bird." Bryant.

CHIRPER
Chirp"er, n.

Defn: One who chirps, or is cheerful.

CHIRPING
Chirp"ing, a.

Defn: Cheering; enlivening.
He takes his chirping pint, he cracks his jokes. Pope.

CHIRPINGLY
Chirp"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a chirping manner.

CHIRRE
Chirre, v. i. Etym: [Cf. G. girren, AS. corian to murmur, complain.
*24.]

Defn: To coo, as a pigeon. [Obs.]

CHIRRUP
Chir"rup, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chirruped; p. pr. & vb. n. Chirruping.]
Etym: [See Chirp.]

Defn: To quicken or animate by chirping; to cherup.

CHIRRUP
Chir"rup, v. i.

Defn: To chirp. Tennyson.
The criket chirrups on the hearth. Goldsmith.

CHIRRUP
Chir"rup, n.

Defn: The act of chirping; a chirp.
The sparrows' chirrup on the roof. Tennyson.

CHIRRUPY
Chir"rupy, a.

Defn: Cheerful; joyous; chatty.

CHIRURGEON
Chi*rur"geon, n. Etym: [F. chirurgien, from chirurgie surgery, fr.
Gr. Surgeon, Work.]

Defn: A surgeon. [Obs.]

CHIRURGEONLY
Chi*rur"geon*ly, adv.

Defn: Surgically. [Obs.] Shak.

CHIRURGERY
Chi*rur"ger*y, n. Etym: [See Chirurgeon, and cf. Surgery.]

Defn: Surgery. [Obs.]

CHIRURGIC; CHIRURGICAL
Chi*rur"gic, Chirur"gical, a. Etym: [Cf. F. chirurgiquerurgical, L.
Chirurgicus, Gr. Chirurgeon, and cf. Surgical.]

Defn: Surgical [Obs.] "Chirurgical lore" Longfellow.

CHISEL
Chis"el, n. Etym: [OF. chisel, F. ciseau, fr. LL. cisellus, prob. for
caesellus, fr. L. caesus, p. p. of caedere to cut. Cf. Scissors.]

Defn: A tool with a cutting edge on one end of a metal blade, used in
dressing, shaping, or working in timber, stone, metal, etc.; --
usually driven by a mallet or hammer. Cold chisel. See under Cold, a.

CHISEL
Chis"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chiseled, or Chiselled (p. pr. & vb. n.
Chiseling, or Chiselling.] Etym: [Cf. F. ciseler.]

1. To cut, pare, gouge, or engrave with a chisel; as, to chisel a
block of marble into a statue.

2. To cut close, as in a bargain; to cheat. [Slang]

CHISLEU
Chis"leu, n. Etym: [Heb.]

Defn: The ninth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to
a part of November with a part of December.

CHISLEY
Chis"ley, a. Etym: [AS. ceosel gravel or sand. Cf. Chessom.]

Defn: Having a large admixture of small pebbles or gravel; -- said of
a soil. Gardner.

CHIT
Chit, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. ci shoot, sprig, from the same root as cinan
to yawn. See Chink a cleft.]

1. The embryo or the growing bud of a plant; a shoot; a sprout; as,
the chits of Indian corn or of potatoes.

2. A child or babe; as, a forward chit; also, a young, small, or
insignificant person or animal.
A little chit of a woman. Thackeray.

3. An excrescence on the body, as a wart. [Obs.]

4. A small tool used in cleaving laths. Knight.

CHIT
Chit, v. i.

Defn: To shoot out; to sprout.
I have known barley chit in seven hours after it had been thrown
forth. Mortimer.

CHIT
Chit, 3d sing. of Chide.

Defn: Chideth. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHITCHAT
Chit"chat, n. Etym: [From Chat, by way of reduplication.]

Defn: Familiar or trifling talk; prattle.

CHITIN
Chi"tin, n. Etym: [See Chiton.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white amorphous horny substance forming the harder part of
the outer integument of insects, crustacea, and various other
invertebrates; entomolin.

CHITINIZATION
Chi`ti*ni*za"tion, n.

Defn: The process of becoming chitinous.

CHITINOUS
Chi"ti*nous, a.

Defn: Having the nature of chitin; consisting of, or containing,
chitin.

CHITON
Chi"ton, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. An under garment among the ancient Greeks, nearly representing the
modern shirt.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of gastropod mollusks, with a shell composed of
eight movable dorsal plates. See Polyplacophora.

CHITTER
Chit"ter, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Chatter.]

1. To chirp in a tremulous manner, as a bird. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To shiver or chatter with cold. [Scot.] Burns.

CHITTERLING
Chit"ter*ling, n.

Defn: The frill to the breast of a shirt, which when ironed out
resembled the small entrails. See Chitterlings. [Obs.] Gascoigne.

CHITTERLINGS
Chit"ter*lings, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. AS. cwiÞ womb, Icel. kvith, Goth.
qiÞus, belly, womb, stomach, G. kutteln chitterlings.] (Cookery)

Defn: The smaller intestines of swine, etc., fried for food.

CHITTRA
Chit"tra, n. Etym: [Native Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The axis deer of India.

CHITTY
Chit"ty, a.

1. Full of chits or sprouts.

2. Childish; like a babe. [Obs.]

CHIVACHIE
Chiv"a*chie`, n. Etym: [OF. chevauchie, chevauchée; of the same
origin as E. cavalcade.]

Defn: A cavalry raid; hence, a military expedition. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHIVALRIC
Chiv"al*ric, a. Etym: [See Chivalry.]

Defn: Relating to chivalry; knightly; chivalrous.

CHIVALROUS
Chiv"al*rous, a. Etym: [OF. chevalerus, chevalereus, fr. chevalier.
See Chivalry.]

Defn: Pertaining to chivalry or knight-errantry; warlike; heroic;
gallant; high-spirited; high-minded; magnanimous.
In brave pursuit of chivalrous emprise. Spenser.

CHIVALROUSLY
Chiv"al*rous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a chivalrous manner; gallantly; magnanimously.

CHIVALRY
Chiv"al*ry, n. Etym: [F. chevalerie, fr. chevalier knight, OF.,
horseman. See Chevalier, and cf. Cavalry.]

1. A body or order of cavaliers or knights serving on horseback;
illustrious warriors, collectively; cavalry. "His Memphian chivalry."
Milton.
By his light Did all the chivalry of England move, To do brave acts.
Shak.

2. The dignity or system of knighthood; the spirit, usages, or
manners of knighthood; the practice of knight-errantry. Dryden.

3. The qualifications or character of knights, as valor, dexterity in
arms, courtesy, etc.
The glory of our Troy this day doth lie On his fair worth and single
chivalry. Shak.

4. (Eng. Law)

Defn: A tenure of lands by knight's service; that is, by the
condition of a knight's performing service on horseback, or of
performing some noble or military service to his lord.

5. Exploit. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. Court of chivalry, a court formerly
held before the lord high constable and earl marshal of England as
judges, having cognizance of contracts and other matters relating to
deeds of arms and war. Blackstone.

CHIVARRAS; CHIVARROS
Chi*var"ras,  Chi*var"ros, n. pl. [Mex. Sp.]

Defn: Leggings. [Mex. & Southwestern U. S.]

CHIVE
Chive, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A filament of a stamen. [Obs.]

CHIVE
Chive, n. Etym: [F. cive, fr. L. cepa, caepa, onion. Cf. Cives,
Cibol.] (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial plant (Allium Schoenoprasum), allied to the onion.
The young leaves are used in omelets, etc. [Written also cive.]

CHIVY
Chiv"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chivied; p. pr. & vb. n. Chivying.] Etym:
[Cf. Chevy.]

Defn: To goad, drive, hunt, throw, or pitch. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens.

CHLAMYDATE
Chlam"y*date, a. Etym: [L. chlamydatus dressed in a military cloak.
See Chlamys.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a mantle; -- applied to certain gastropods.

CHLAMYPHORE
Chlam"y*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small South American edentate (Chlamyphorus truncatus, and C.
retusus) allied to the armadillo. It is covered with a leathery shell
or coat of mail, like a cloak, attached along the spine.

CHLAMYS
Chla"mys, n.; pl. E. Chlamyses, L. Chlamydes. Etym: [L., from Gr.

Defn: A loose and flowing outer garment, worn by the ancient Greeks;
a kind of cloak.

CHLOASMA
Chlo*as"ma, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A cutaneous affection characterized by yellow or yellowish
brown pigmented spots.

CHLORAL
Chlo"ral, n. Etym: [Chlorine + alcohol.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless oily liquid, CCl3.CHO, of a pungent odor and harsh
taste, obtained by the action of chlorine upon ordinary or ethyl
alcohol.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Chloral hydrate. Chloral hydrate, a white crystalline
substance, obtained by treating chloral with water. It produces sleep
when taken internally or hypodermically; -- called also chloral.

CHLORALAMIDE
Chlo"ral*am`ide, n. Etym: [Chloral + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of chloral and formic amide used to produce sleep.

CHLORALISM
Chlo"ral*ism, n. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition of the system resulting from excessive use
of chloral.

CHLORALUM
Chlor`al"um, n. Etym: [Chlorine + aluminium.]

Defn: An impure aqueous solution of chloride of aluminium, used as an
antiseptic and disinfectant.

CHLORANIL
Chlor`an"il, n. Etym: [Chlorine + aniline.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow crystalline substance, C6Cl4.O2, regarded as a
derivative of quinone, obtained by the action of chlorine on certain
benzene derivatives, as aniline.

CHLORATE
Chlo"rate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chlorate. See Chlorine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of chloric acid; as, chlorate of potassium.

CHLORAURATE
Chlor`au"rate, n. Etym: [Chlorine + aurate.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Aurochloride.

CHLORHYDRIC
Chlor`hy"dric, a. Etym: [Chlorine + hydrogen + -ic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Hydrochloric.

CHLORHYDRIN
Chlor`hy"drin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of compounds formed from certain polybasic
alcohols (and especially glycerin) by the substitution of chlorine
for one or more hydroxyl groups.

CHLORIC
Chlo"ric, a. Etym: [From Chlorine.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, chlorine; -- said of those
compounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of five, or
the next to its highest; as, chloric acid, HClO3. Chloric ether
(Chem.), ethylene dichloride. See Dutch liquid, under Dutch.

CHLORIDATE
Chlo"ri*date, v.t.

Defn: To treat or prepare with a chloride, as a plate with chloride
of silver, for the purposes of photography. R. Hunt.

CHLORIDE
Chlo"ride, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound of chlorine with another element or radical;
as, chloride of sodium (common salt). Chloride of ammonium, sal
ammoniac.
 -- Chloride of lime, bleaching powder; a grayish white substance,
CaOClcalcium hypochlorite. See Hypochlorous acid, under Hypochlorous.
 -- Mercuric chloride, corrosive sublimate.

CHLORIDIC
Chlo*rid"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chloride; containing a chloride.

CHLORIDIZE
Chlo"rid*ize, v. t.

Defn: See Chloridate.

CHLORIMETRY
Chlo*rim"e*try, n.

Defn: See Chlorometry.

CHLORINATE
Chlo"rin*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chlorinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chlorinating.] (Chem.)

Defn: To treat, or cause to combine, with chlorine.

CHLORINATION
Chlo`ri*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of subjecting anything to the action of
chlorine; especially, a process for the extraction of gold by
exposure of the auriferous material to chlorine gas.

CHLORINE
Chlo"rine, n. Etym: [Gr. Yellow.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the elementary substances, commonly isolated as a
greenish yellow gas, two and one half times as heavy as air, of an
intensely disagreeable suffocating odor, and exceedingly poisonous.
It is abundant in nature, the most important compound being common
salt. It is powerful oxidizing, bleaching, and disinfecting agent.
Symbol Cl. Atomic weight, 35.4. Chlorine family, the elements
fluorine, chlorine, bromine, and iodine, called the halogens, and
classed together from their common peculiariries.

CHLORIODIC
Chlor`i*od"ic, a.

Defn: Compounded of chlorine and iodine; containing chlorine and
iodine.

CHLORIODINE
Chlor`i"o*dine, n.

Defn: A compound of chlorine and iodine. [R.]

CHLORITE
Chlo"rite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: The name of a group of minerals, usually of a green color and
micaceous to granular in structure. They are hydrous silicates of
alumina, iron, and magnesia. Chlorite slate, a schistose or slaty
rock consisting of alumina, iron, and magnesia.

CHLORITE
Chlo"rite, n. Etym: [Chlorous + -ite.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any salt of chlorous acid; as, chlorite of sodium.

CHLORITIC
Chlo*rit"ic, a. Etym: [From 1st Chlorite.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, chlorite; as, chloritic sand.

CHLORMETHANE
Chlor`meth"ane, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless gas, CH3Cl, of a sweet odor, easily condensed to a
liquid; -- called also methyl chloride.

CHLORO-
Chlo"ro-. (Chem.)

Defn: A prefix denoting that chlorine is an ingredient in the
substance named.

CHLOROCRUORIN
Chlo`ro*cru"o*rin, n. Etym: [Gr. cruorin.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A green substance, supposed to be the cause of the green color
of the blood in some species of worms. Ray Lankester.

CHLORODYNE
Chlo"ro*dyne, n. Etym: [From chlorine, in imitation of anodyne.]
(Med.)

Defn: A patent anodyne medicine, containing opium, chloroform, Indian
hemp, etc.

CHLOROFORM
Chlo"ro*form, n. Etym: [Chlorine + formyl, it having been regarded as
a trichloride of this radical: cf. F. chloroforme, G. chloroform.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A colorless volatile liquid, CHCl3, having an ethereal odor and
a sweetish taste, formed by treating alcohol with chlorine and an
alkali. It is a powerful solvent of wax, resin, etc., and is
extensively used to produce anæsthesia in surgical operations; also
externally, to alleviate pain.

CHLOROFORM
Chlo"ro*form, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chloroformed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chloroforming.]

Defn: To treat with chloroform, or to place under its influence.

CHLOROLEUCITE
Chlo`ro*leu"cite, n. Etym: [Gr. leucite.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Chloroplastid.

CHLOROMETER
Chlo*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chloromètre. See Chlorine, and -
meter.]

Defn: An instrument to test the decoloring or bleaching power of
chloride of lime.

CHLOROMETRY
Chlo*rom"e*try, n.

Defn: The process of testing the bleaching power of any combination
of chlorine.

CHLOROPAL
Chlo*ro"pal, n. Etym: [Gr. opal.] (Min.)

Defn: A massive mineral, greenish in color, and opal-like in
appearance. It is essentially a hydrous silicate of iron.

CHLOROPEPTIC
Chlo`ro*pep"tic, a. Etym: [Chlorine + peptic.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an acid more generally called pepsin-
hydrochloric acid.

CHLOROPHANE
Chlo"ro*phane, n. Etym: [Gr. chlorophane.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of fluor spar, which, when heated, gives a beautiful
emerald green light.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The yellowish green pigment in the inner segment of the cones
of the retina. See Chromophane.

CHLOROPHYLL
Chlo"ro*phyll, n. Etym: [Gr. chlorophylle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Literally, leaf green; a green granular matter formed in the
cells of the leaves (and other parts exposed to light) of plants, to
which they owe their green color, and through which all ordinary
assimilation of plant food takes place. Similar chlorophyll granules
have been found in the tissues of the lower animals. [Written also
chlorophyl.]

CHLOROPLAST
Chlo"ro*plast, n. [Pref. chloro-+ Gr.  to mold, form.] (Biol.)

Defn: A plastid containing chlorophyll, developed only in cells
exposed to the light. Chloroplasts are minute flattened granules,
usually occurring in great numbers in the cytoplasm near the cell
wall, and consist of a colorless ground substance saturated with
chlorophyll pigments. Under light of varying intensity they exhibit
phototactic movements. In animals chloroplasts occur only in certain
low forms.

CHLOROPLASTID
Chlo`ro*plas"tid, n. Etym: [Gr. plastid.] (Bot.)

Defn: A granule of chlorophyll; -- also called chloroleucite.

CHLOROPLATINIC
Chlo`ro*pla*tin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: See Platinichloric.

CHLOROSIS
Chlo*ro"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. chlorose.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: The green sickness; an anæmic disease of young women,
characterized by a greenish or grayish yellow hue of the skin,
weakness, palpitation, etc.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A disease in plants, causing the flowers to turn green or the
leaves to lose their normal green color.

CHLOROTIC
Chlo*rot"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. chlorotique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or affected by, chlorosis.

CHLOROUS
Chlo"rous, a. Etym: [See Chlorine.]

1. Of, pertaining to, or derived from, chlorine; -- said of those
compounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of three,
the next lower than in chloric compounds; as, chlorous acid, HClO2.

2. (Chem. Physics)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the electro-negative character of
chlorine; hence, electro-negative; -- opposed to basylous or zincous.
[Obs.]

CHLORPICRIN
Chlor`pi"crin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A heavy, colorless liquid, CCl3.NO2, of a strong pungent odor,
obtained by subjecting picric acid to the action of chlorine.
[Written also chloropikrin.]

CHLORURET
Chlo"ru*ret, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chlorure.] (Chem.)

Defn: A chloride. [Obs.]

CHOAK
Choak, v. t. & i.

Defn: See Choke.

CHOANOID
Cho"a*noid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Funnel-shaped; -- applied particularly to a hollow muscle
attached to the ball of the eye in many reptiles and mammals.

CHOCARD
Cho"card, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The chough.

CHOCK
Chock, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chocked; p. pr. & vb. n. Chocking.]

Defn: To stop or fasten, as with a wedge, or block; to scotch; as, to
chock a wheel or cask.

CHOCK
Chock, v. i.

Defn: To fill up, as a cavity. "The woodwork . . . exactly chocketh
into joints." Fuller.

CHOCK
Chock, n.

1. A wedge, or block made to fit in any space which it is desired to
fill, esp. something to steady a cask or other body, or prevent it
from moving, by fitting into the space around or beneath it.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A heavy casting of metal, usually fixed near the gunwale. It
has two short horn-shaped arms curving inward, between which ropes or
hawsers may pass for towing, mooring, etc.

CHOCK
Chock, adv. (Naut.)

Defn: Entirely; quite; as, chock home; chock aft.

CHOCK
Chock, v. t. Etym: [F. choquer. Cf. Shock, v. t.]

Defn: To encounter. [Obs.]

CHOCK
Chock, n.

Defn: An encounter. [Obs.]

CHOCKABLOCK
Chock"a*block, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Hoisted as high as the tackle will admit; brought close
together, as the two blocks of a tackle in hoisting.

CHOCK-FULL
Chock"-full`, a.

Defn: Quite full; choke-full.

CHOCOLATE
Choc"o*late, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. the Mexican name of the cacao. Cf.
Cacao, Cocoa.]

1. A paste or cake composed of the roasted seeds of the Theobroma
Cacao ground and mixed with other ingredients, usually sugar, and
cinnamon or vanilla.

2. The beverage made by dissolving a portion of the paste or cake in
boiling water or milk. Chocolate house, a house in which customers
may be served with chocolate.
 -- Chocolate nut. See Cacao.

CHOCTAWS
Choc"taws, n. pl.

Defn: ; sing. Choctaw. (Ethnol.) A tribe of North American Indians
(Southern Appalachian), in early times noted for their pursuit of
agriculture, and for living at peace with the white settlers. They
are now one of the civilized tribes of the Indian Territory.

CHODE
Chode,

Defn: the old imp. of chide. See Chide.

CHOGSET
Chog"set, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cunner.

CHOICE
Choice, n. Etym: [OE. chois, OF. chois, F. choix, fr. choisir to
choose; of German origin; cf. Goth. kausjan to examine, kiusan to
choose, examine, G. kiesen. *46. Cf. Choose.]

1. Act of choosing; the voluntary act of selecting or separating from
two or more things that which is preferred; the determination of the
mind in preferring one thing to another; election.

2. The power or opportunity of choosing; option.
Choice there is not, unless the thing which we take be so in our
power that we might have refused it. Hooker.

3. Care in selecting; judgment or skill in distinguishing what is to
be preferred, and in giving a preference; discrimination.
I imagine they [the apothegms of Cæsar] were collected with judgment
and choice. Bacon.

4. A sufficient number to choose among. Shak.

5. The thing or person chosen; that which is approved and selected in
preference to others; selection.
The common wealth is sick of their own choice. Shak.

6. The best part; that which is preferable.
The flower and choice Of many provinces from bound to bound. Milton.
To make a choice of, to choose; to select; to separate and take in
preference.

Syn. - See Volition, Option.

CHOICE
Choice, a. [Compar. Choicer; superl. Choicest.]

1. Worthly of being chosen or preferred; select; superior; precious;
valuable.
My choicest hours of life are lost. Swift.

2. Preserving or using with care, as valuable; frugal; -- used with
of; as, to be choice of time, or of money.

3. Selected with care, and due attention to preference; deliberately
chosen.
Choice word measured phrase. Wordsworth.

Syn. - Select; precious; exquisite; uncommon; rare; chary; careful/

CHOICEFUL
Choice"ful, a.

Defn: Making choices; fickle. [Obs.]
His choiceful sense with every change doth fit. Spenser.

CHOICELY
Choice"ly, adv.

1. With care in choosing; with nice regard to preference. "A band of
men collected choicely, from each county some." Shak.

2. In a preferable or excellent manner; excellently; eminently.
"Choicely good." Walton.

CHOICENESS
Choice"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being of particular value or worth; nicely;
excellence.

CHOIR
Choir, n. Etym: [OE. quer, OF. cuer, F. choeur, fr. L. chorus a
choral dance, chorus, choir, fr. Gr. hortus garden, and E. yard. See
Chorus.]

1. A band or organized company of singers, especially in church
service. [Formerly written also quire.]

2. That part of a church appropriated to the singers.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: The chancel. Choir organ (Mus.), one of the three or five
distinct organs included in the full organ, each separable from the
rest, but all controlled by one performer; a portion of the full
organ, complete in itself, and more practicable for ordinary service
and in the accompanying of the vocal choir.
 -- Choir screen, Choir wall (Arch.), a screen or low wall separating
the choir from the aisles.
 -- Choir service, the service of singing performed by the choir. T.
Warton.

CHOKE
Choke, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Choked; p. pr. & vb. n. Choking.] Etym:
[OE. cheken, choken; cf. AS. aceocian to suffocate, Icel. koka to
gulp, E. chincough, cough.]

1. To render unable to breathe by filling, pressing upon, or
squeezing the windpipe; to stifle; to suffocate; to strangle.
With eager feeding food doth choke the feeder. Shak.

2. To obstruct by filling up or clogging any passage; to block up.
Addison.

3. To hinder or check, as growth, expansion, progress, etc.; to
stifle.
Oats and darnel choke the rising corn. Dryden.

4. To affect with a sense of strangulation by passion or strong
feeling. "I was choked at this word." Swift.

5. To make a choke, as in a cartridge, or in the bore of the barrel
of a shotgun. To choke off, to stop a person in the execution of a
purpose; as, to choke off a speaker by uproar.

CHOKE
Choke, v. i.

1. To have the windpipe stopped; to have a spasm of the throat,
caused by stoppage or irritation of the windpipe; to be strangled.

2. To be checked, as if by choking; to stick.
The words choked in his throat. Sir W. Scott.

CHOKE
Choke, n.

1. A stoppage or irritation of the windpipe, producing the feeling of
strangulation.

2. (Gun.)
(a) The tied end of a cartridge.
(b) A constriction in the bore of a shotgun, case of a rocket, etc.

CHOKEBERRY
Choke"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The small apple-shaped or pear-shaped fruit of an American
shrub (Pyrus arbutifolia) growing in damp thickets; also, the shrub.

CHOKEBORE
Choke"bore`, n.

1. In a shotgun, a bore which is tapered to a slightly smaller
diameter at a short distance (usually 2½ to 3 inches) to the rear of
the muzzle, in order to prevent the rapid dispersion of the shot.

2.  A shotgun that is made with such a bore.

CHOKEBORE
Choke"bore`, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Chokebored; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chokeboring.]

Defn: To provide with a chokebore.

CHOKECHERRY
Choke"cher`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The astringent fruit of a species of wild cherry (Prunus
Virginiana); also, the bush or tree which bears such fruit.

CHOKE DAMP
Choke" damp`.

Defn: See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.

CHOKEDAR
Cho`ke*dar", n. Etym: [Hindi chauki-dar.]

Defn: A watchman; an officer of customs or police. [India]

CHOKE-FULL
Choke"-full`, a.

Defn: Full to the brim; quite full; chock-full.

CHOKE PEAR
Choke" pear`.

1. A kind of pear that has a rough, astringent taste, and is
swallowed with difficulty, or which contracts the mucous membrane of
the mouth.

2. A sarcasm by which one is put to silence; anything that can not be
answered. [Low] S. Richardson.

CHOKER
Chok"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, chokes.

2. A stiff wide cravat; a stock. [Slang]

CHOKE-STRAP
Choke"-strap`, n. (Saddlery)

Defn: A strap leading from the bellyband to the lower part of the
collar, to keep the collar in place.

CHOKING
Chok"ing, a.

1. That chokes; producing the feeling of strangulation.

2. Indistinct in utterance, as the voice of a person affected with
strong emotion.

CHOKING COIL
Choking coil. (Elec.)

Defn: A coil of small resistance and large inductance, used in an
alternating-current circuit to impede or throttle the current, or to
change its phase; --called also reactance coil or reactor, these
terms being now preferred in engineering usage.

CHOKY; CHOKEY
Chok"y Chok"ey, a.

1. Tending to choke or suffocate, or having power to suffocate.

2. Inclined to choke, as a person affected with strong emotion. "A
deep and choky voice." Aytoun.
The allusion to his mother made Tom feel rather chokey. T. Hughes.

CHOLAEMAA
Cho*læ"ma*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A disease characterized by severe nervous symptoms, dependent
upon the presence of the constituents of the bile in the blood.

CHOLAGOGUE
Chol"a*gogue, a. Etym: [Gr. cholagogue.] (Med.)

Defn: Promoting the discharge of bile from the system.
 -- n.

Defn: An agent which promotes the discharge of bile from the system.

CHOLATE
Cho"late, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of cholic acid; as, sodium cholate.

CHOLECYSTIS
Chol`e*cys"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The gall bladder.

CHOLECYSTOTOMY
Chol`e*cys*tot"o*my, n. Etym: [Cholecystis + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of making an opening in the gall bladder, as for
the removal of a gallstone.

CHOLEDOLOGY
Chol`e*dol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy. Cf. F. cholédologie.] (Med.)

Defn: A treatise on the bile and bilary organs. Dunglison.

Note: Littré says that the word cholédologie is absolutely barbarous,
there being no Greek word cholology.

CHOLEIC
Cho*le"ic, a. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, bile; as, choleic acid.

CHOLER
Chol"er, n. Etym: [OE. coler, F. colère anger, L. cholera a bilious
complaint, fr. Gr. Gall, and cf. Cholera.]

1. The bile; -- formerly supposed to be the seat and cause of
irascibility. [Obs.]
His [Richard Hooker's] complexion . . . was sanguine, with a mixture
of choler; and yet his motion was slow. I. Warton.

2. Irritation of the passions; anger; wrath.
He is rash and very sudden in choler. Shak.

CHOLERA
Chol"er*a, n. Etym: [L., a bilious disease. See Choler.] (Med.)

Defn: One of several diseases affecting the digestive and intestinal
tract and more or less dangerous to life, esp. the one commonly
called Asiatic cholera. Asiatic cholera, a malignant and rapidly
fatal disease, originating in Asia and frequently epidemic in the
more filthy sections of other lands, to which the germ or specific
poison may have been carried. It is characterized by diarrhea, rice-
water evacuations, vomiting, cramps, pinched expression, and
lividity, rapidly passing into a state of collapse, followed by
death, or by a stage of reaction of fever.
 -- Cholera bacillus. See Comma bacillus.
 -- Cholera infantum, a dangerous summer disease, of infants, caused
by hot weather, bad air, or poor milk, and especially fatal in large
cities.
 -- Cholera morbus, a disease characterized by vomiting and purging,
with gripings and cramps, usually caused by imprudence in diet or by
gastrointestinal disturbance.
 -- Chicken cholera. See under Chicken.
 -- Hog cholera. See under Hog.
 -- Sporadic cholera, a disease somewhat resembling the Asiatic
cholera, but originating where it occurs, and rarely becoming
epidemic.

CHOLERAIC
Chol`er*a"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to, or resulting from, or resembling, cholera.

CHOLERIC
Chol"er*ic, a. Etym: [L. cholericus, Gr. cholérique.]

1. Abounding with, or producing choler, or bile. Dryden.

2. Easily irritated; irascible; inclined to anger.

3. Angry; indicating anger; excited by anger. "Choleric speech." Sir
W. Raleigh. Choleric temperament, the bilious temperament.

CHOLERICLY
Chol"er*ic*ly, adv.

Defn: In a choleric manner; angrily.

CHOLERIFORM
Chol"er*i*form`, a. Etym: [Cholera + -form.]

Defn: Resembling cholera.

CHOLERINE
Chol"er*ine, n. (Med.)
(a) The precursory symptoms of cholera.
(b) The first stage of epidemic cholera.
(c) A mild form of cholera.

CHOLEROID
Chol"er*oid, a. Etym: [Cholera + -oid.]

Defn: Choleriform.

CHOLESTERIC
Cho`les*ter"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cholestérique.]

Defn: Pertaining to cholesterin, or obtained from it; as, cholesteric
acid. Ure.

CHOLESTERIN
Cho*les"ter*in, n. Etym: [Gr. cholestérine. See Stearin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, fatty, crystalline substance, tasteless and odorless,
found in animal and plant products and tissue, and especially in
nerve tissue, in the bile, and in gallstones.

CHOLIAMB; CHOLIAMBIC
Cho"li*amb, Cho`li*am"bic, n. Etym: [L. choliambus, Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: A verse having an iambus in the fifth place, and a spondee in
the sixth or last.

CHOLIC; CHOLINIC
Chol"ic, Cho*lin"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the bile. Cholic acid (Chem.),
a complex organic acid found as a natural constituent of taurocholic
and glycocholic acids in the bile, and extracted as a resinous
substance, convertible under the influence of ether into white
crystals.

CHOLINE
Cho"line, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: See Neurine.

CHOLOCHROME
Chol"o*chrome, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: See Bilirubin.

CHOLOPHAEIN
Chol`o*phæ"in, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: See Bilirubin.

CHOLTRY
Chol"try, n.

Defn: A Hindoo caravansary.

CHOMAGE
Cho`mage", n. [F. chomage.]

1.

Defn: Stoppage; cessation (of labor).

2.  A standing still or idle (of mills, factories, etc.).

CHOMP
Chomp, v. i.

Defn: To chew loudly and greedily; to champ. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.
S.] Halliwell.

CHONDRIFICATION
Chon`dri*fi*ca"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: Formation of, or conversion into, cartilage.

CHONDRIFY
Chon"dri*fy, v. t. & i. Etym: [Gr. -fy.]

Defn: To convert, or be converted, into cartilage.

CHONDRIGEN
Chon"dri*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The chemical basis of cartilage, converted by long boiling in
water into a gelatinous body called chondrin.

CHONDRIGENOUS
Chon*drig"e*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. -genous.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Affording chondrin.

CHONDRIN
Chon"drin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, amorphous, nitrogenous substance, tasteless and
odorless, formed from cartilaginous tissue by long-continued action
of boiling water. It is similar to gelatin, and is a large ingredient
of commercial gelatin.

CHONDRITE
Chon"drite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A meteoric stone characterized by the presence of chondrules.

CHONDRITIC
Chon*drit"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Granular; pertaining to, or having the granular structure
characteristic of, the class of meteorites called chondrites.

CHONDRITIS
Chon*dri"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: An inflammation of cartilage.

CHONDRO-
Chon"dro-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form meaning a grain, granular, granular cartilage,
cartilaginous; as, the chondrocranium, the cartilaginous skull of the
lower vertebrates and of embryos.

CHONDRODITE
Chon"dro*dite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A fluosilicate of magnesia and iron, yellow to red in color,
often occurring in granular form in a crystalline limestone.

CHONDROGANOIDEA
Chon`dro*ga*noi"de*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ganoidei. See Ganoid.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so
called on account of their cartilaginous skeleton.

CHONDROGEN
Chon"dro*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Same as Chondrigen.

CHONDROGENESIS
Chon`dro*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. genesis.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The development of cartilage.

CHONDROID
Chon"droid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Resembling cartilage.

CHONDROLOGY
Chon*drol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. chondrologie.] (Anat.)

Defn: The science which treats of cartilages. Dunglison.

CHONDROMA
Chon*dro"ma, n.; pl. Chondromata. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oma.]

Defn: A cartilaginous tumor or growth.

CHONDROMETER
Chon*drom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: A steelyard for weighting grain.

CHONDROPTERYGIAN
Chon*drop`ter*yg"i*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. chondropterygien.]

Defn: Having a cartilaginous skeleton.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Chondropterygii.

CHONDROPTERYGII
Chon*drop`te*ryg"i*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of fishes, characterized by cartilaginous fins and
skeleton. It includes both ganoids (sturgeons, etc.) and selachians
(sharks), but is now often restricted to the latter. [Written also
Chondropterygia.]

CHONDROSTEI
Chon*dros"te*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so named
because the skeleton is cartilaginous.

CHONDROTOMY
Chon*drot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The dissection of cartilages.

CHONDRULE
Chon"drule, n. Etym: [Dim. from Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A peculiar rounded granule of some mineral, usually enstatite
or chrysolite, found imdedded more or less aboundantly in the mass of
many meteoric stones, which are hence called chondrites.

CHOOSE
Choose, v. t. [imp. Chose; p. p. Chosen, Chose (Obs.); p. pr. & vb.
n. Choosing.] Etym: [OE. chesen, cheosen, AS. ceósan; akin to OS.
kiosan, D. kiezen, G. kiesen, Icel. kjosa, Goth. kiusan, L. gustare
to taste, Gr. jush to enjoy. *46. Cf. Choice, 2d Gust.]

1. To make choice of; to select; to take by way of preference from
two or more objects offered; to elect; as, to choose the least of two
evils.
Choose me for a humble friend. Pope.

2. To wish; to desire; to prefer. [Colloq.]
The landlady now returned to know if we did not choose a more genteel
apartment. Goldsmith.
To choose sides. See under Side.

Syn. - To select; prefer; elect; adopt; follow.
 -- To Choose, Prefer, Elect. To choose is the generic term, and
denotes to take or fix upon by an act of the will, especially in
accordance with a decision of the judgment. To prefer is to choose or
favor one thing as compared with, and more desirable than, another,
or more in accordance with one's tastes and feelings. To elect is to
choose or select for some office, employment, use, privilege, etc.,
especially by the concurrent vote or voice of a sufficient number of
electors. To choose a profession; to prefer private life to a public
one; to elect members of Congress.

CHOOSE
Choose, v. i.

1. To make a selection; to decide.
They had only to choose between implicit obedience and open
rebellion. Prescott.

2. To do otherwise. "Can I choose but smile" Pope. Can not choose
but, must necessarily.
Thou canst not choose but know who I am. Shak.

CHOOSER
Choos"er, n.

Defn: One who chooses; one who has the power or right of choosing; an
elector. Burke.

CHOP
Chop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chopped; p. pr. & vb. n. Chopping.] Etym:
[Cf. LG. & D. kappen, Dan. kappe, Sw. kappa. Cf. Chap to crack.]

1. To cut by striking repeatedly with a sharp instrument; to cut into
pieces; to mince; -- often with up.

2. To sever or separate by one more blows of a sharp instrument; to
divide; -- usually with off or down.
Chop off your hand, and it to the king. Shak.

3. To seize or devour greedily; -- with up. [Obs.]
Upon the opening of his mouth he drops his breakfast, which the fox
presently chopped up. L'estrange.

CHOP
Chop, v. i.

1. To make a quick strike, or repeated strokes, with an ax or other
sharp instrument.

2. To do something suddenly with an unexpected motion; to catch or
attempt to seize.
Out of greediness to get both, he chops at the shadow, and loses the
substance. L'Estrange.

3. To interrupt; -- with in or out.
This fellow interrupted the sermon, even suddenly chopping in.
Latimer.

CHOP
Chop, v. t. Etym: [Cf. D. koopen to buy. See Cheapen, v. t., and cf.
Chap, v. i., to buy.]

1. To barter or truck.

2. To exchange; substitute one thing for another.
We go on chopping and changing our friends. L'Estrange.
To chop logic, to dispute with an affected use of logical terms; to
argue sophistically.

CHOP
Chop, v. i.

1. To purchase by way of truck.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To vary or shift suddenly; as, the wind chops about.

3. To wrangle; to altercate; to bandy words.
Let not the counsel at the bar chop with the judge. Bacon.

CHOP
Chop, n.

Defn: A change; a vicissitude. Marryat.

CHOP
Chop, v. t. & i.

Defn: To crack. See Chap, v. t. & i.

CHOP
Chop, n.

1. The act of chopping; a stroke.

2. A piece chopped off; a slice or small piece, especially of meat;
as, a mutton chop.

3. A crack or cleft. See Chap.

CHOP
Chop, n. Etym: [See Chap.]

1. A jaw of an animal; -- commonly in the pl. See Chops.

2. A movable jaw or cheek, as of a wooden vise.

3. The land at each side of the mouth of a river, harbor, or channel;
as, East Chop or West Chop. See Chops.

CHOP
Chop, n. Etym: [Chin. & Hind. chap stamp, brand.]

1. Quality; brand; as, silk of the first chop.

2. A permit or clearance. Chop dollar, a silver dollar stamped to
attest its purity.
 -- chop of tea, a number of boxes of the same make and quality of
leaf.
 -- Chowchow chop. See under Chowchow.
 -- Grand chop, a ship's port clearance. S. W. Williams.

CHOPBOAT
Chop"boat`, n. Etym: [Chin. chop sort, quality.]

Defn: A licensed lighter employed in the transportation of goods to
and from vessels. [China] S. W. Williams.

CHOPCHURCH
Chop"church`, n. Etym: [See Chop to barter.] (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: An exchanger or an exchange of benefices. [Cant]

CHOPFALLEN
Chop`fall`en, a.

Defn: Having the lower chop or jaw depressed; hence, crestfallen;
dejected; dispirited;downcast. See Chapfallen.

CHOPHOUSE
Chop"house`, n.

Defn: A house where chops, etc., are sold; an eating house.
The freedom of a chophouse. W. Irving.

CHOPHOUSE
Chop"house`, n. Etym: [See Chop quality.]

Defn: A customhouse where transit duties are levied. [China] S. W.
Williams.

CHOPIN
Chop"in, n. Etym: [F. chopine, fr. G. schoppen.]

Defn: A liquid measure formerly used in France and Great Britain,
varying from half a pint to a wine quart.

CHOPIN
Chop"in, n.

Defn: See Chopine.

CHOPINE
Cho*pine", n. Etym: [Cf. OF. chapin, escapin, Sp. chapin, Pg.
chapim.]

Defn: A clog, or patten, having a very thick sole, or in some cases
raised upon a stilt to a height of a foot or more. [Variously spelt
chioppine, chopin, etc.]
Your ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the
altitude of a chopine. Shak.

CHOP-LOGIC
Chop"-log`ic, n.

Defn: One who bandies words or is very argunentative. [Jocular] Shak.

CHOPNESS
Chop"ness, n.

Defn: A kind of spade. [Eng.]

CHOPPER
Chop"per, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, chops.

CHOPPING
Chop"ping, a. Etym: [Cf. Chubby.]

Defn: Stout or plump; large. [Obs.] Fenton.

CHOPPING
Chop"ping, a. Etym: [See Chop to barter.]

Defn: Shifting or changing suddenly, as the wind; also, having
tumbling waves dashing against each other; as, a chopping sea.

CHOPPING
Chop"ping, n.

Defn: Act of cutting by strokes. Chopping block, a solid block of
wood on which butchers and others chop meat, etc.
 -- Chopping knife, a knife for chopping or mincing meat, vegetables,
etc.; -- usually with a handle at the back of the blade instead of at
the end.

CHOPPY
Chop"py, a. Etym: [Cf. Chappy.]

1. Full of cracks. "Choppy finger." Shak.

2. Etym: [Cf. Chop a change.]

Defn: Rough, with short, tumultuous waves; as, a choppy sea.

CHOPS
Chops, n. pl. Etym: [See Chop a jaw.]

1. The jaws; also, the fleshy parts about the mouth.

2. The sides or capes at the mouth of a river, channel, harbor, or
bay; as, the chops of the English Channel.

CHOPSTICK
Chop"stick", n.

Defn: One of two small sticks of wood, ivory, etc., used by the
Chinese and Japanese to convey food to the mouth.

CHOP SUEY; CHOP SOOY
Chop su"ey or Chop soo"y . [Chin. (Cantonese) shap sui odds and ends,
fr. shap for sap to enter the mouth + sui small bits pounded fine.]

Defn: A mélange served in Chinese restaurants to be eaten with rice,
noodles, etc. It consists typically of bean sprouts, onions,
mushrooms, etc., and sliced meats, fried and flavored with sesame
oil. [U. S.]

CHORAGIC
Cho*rag"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a choragus. Choragic monument, a building
or column built by a victorious choragus for the reception and
exhibition of the tripod which he received as a prize. Those of
Lysicrates and Thrasyllus are still to be seen at Athens.

CHORAGUS
Cho*ra"gus, n.; pl. Choragi. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A chorus leader; esp. one who provided at his own expense and
under his own supervision one of the choruses for the musical
contents at Athens.

CHORAL
Cho"ral, a. Etym: [LL. choralis, fr. L. chorus. See Chorus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a choir or chorus; singing, sung, or
adapted to be sung, in chorus or harmony. Choral service, a service
of song.

CHORAL
Cho"ral, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A hymn tune; a simple sacred tune, sung in unison by the
congregation; as, the Lutheran chorals. [Sometimes written chorale.]

CHORALIST
Cho"ral*ist, n.

Defn: A singer or composer of chorals.

CHORALLY
Cho"ral*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a chorus; adapted to be sung by a choir; in
harmony.

CHORD
Chord, n. Etym: [L chorda a gut, a string made of a gut, Gr. cord.
See Cord.]

1. The string of a musical instrument. Milton.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A combination of tones simultaneously performed, producing more
or less perfect harmony, as, the common chord.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: A right line uniting the extremities of the arc of a circle or
curve.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: A cord. See Cord, n., 4.

5. (Engin.)

Defn: The upper or lower part of a truss, usually horizontal,
resisting compression or tension. Waddell. Accidental, Common, and
Vocal chords. See under Accidental, Common, and Vocal.
 -- Chord of an arch. See Illust. of Arch.
 -- Chord of curvature, a chord drawn from any point of a curve, in
the circle of curvature for that point.
 -- Scale of chords. See Scale.

CHORD
Chord, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chorded; p. pr. & vb. n. Chording.]

Defn: To provide with musical chords or strings; to string; to tune.
When Jubal struck the chorded shell. Dryden.
Even the solitary old pine tree chords his harp. Beecher.

CHORD
Chord, v. i. (Mus.)

Defn: To accord; to harmonize together; as, this note chords with
that.

CHORDA
Chor"da, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. chorda. See Chord.] (Anat.)

Defn: A cord. Chorda dorsalis (. Etym: [NL., lit., cord of the back.]
(Anat.) See Notochord.

CHORDAL
Chor"dal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chord.

CHORDATA
Chor*da"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. chorda cord.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A comprehensive division of animals including all Vertebrata
together with the Tunicata, or all those having a dorsal nervous
cord.

CHORDEE
Chor*dee", n. Etym: [F. cordé, cordée, p. p. of corder to cord.]
(Med.)

Defn: A painful erection of the penis, usually with downward
curvature, occurring in gonorrhea.

CHORE
Chore, n. Etym: [The same word as char work done by the day.]

Defn: A small job; in the pl., the regular or daily light work of a
household or farm, either within or without doors. [U. S.]

CHORE
Chore, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chored; p. pr. & vb. n. Choring.]

Defn: To do chores. [U. S.]

CHORE
Chore, n.

Defn: A choir or chorus. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

CHOREA
Cho*re"a. n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: St. Vitus's dance; a disease attended with convulsive
twitchings and other involuntary movements of the muscles or limbs.

CHOREE
Cho*ree", n. Etym: [F. chorée.]

Defn: See Choreus.

CHOREGRAPHIC; CHOREGRAPHICAL
Cho`re*graph"ic, Cho`re*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to choregraphy.

CHOREGRAPHY
Cho*reg"ra*phy, n. Etym: [GR. -graphy.]

Defn: The art of representing dancing by signs, as music is
represented by notes. Craig.

CHOREIC
Cho*re"ic, a.

Defn: Of the nature of, or pertaining to, chorea; convulsive.

CHOREPISCOPAL
Cho`re*pis"co*pal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a chorepiscopus or his change or authority.

CHOREPISCOPUS
Cho`re*pis"co*pus, n.; pl. Chorepiscopi. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Bishop.]
(Eccl.)

Defn: A "country" or suffragan bishop, appointed in the ancient
church by a diocesan bishop to exercise episcopal jurisdiction in a
rural district.

CHOREUS; CHOREE
Cho*re"us, Cho*ree" (, n. Etym: [L. choreus, Gr. chorée.] (Anc.
Pros.)
(a) a trochee.
(b) A tribrach.

CHORIAMB
Cho"ri*amb, n.; pl. Choriambs (.

Defn: Same as Choriambus.

CHORIAMBIC
Cho`ri*am"bic, a. Etym: [L. choriambicus, gr.

Defn: Pertaining to a choriamb.
 -- n.

Defn: A choriamb.

CHORIAMBUS
Cho`ri*am"bus, n.; pl. L. Choriambi, E. Choriambuses. Etym: [L.
choriambus, Gr. (Anc. Pros.)

Defn: A foot consisting of four syllables, of which the first and
last are long, and the other short (- ~ ~ -); that is, a choreus, or
trochee, and an iambus united.

CHORIC
Cho"ric, a. Etym: [L. choricus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chorus.
I remember a choric ode in the Hecuba. Coleridge.

CHORION
Cho"ri*on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Anat.)
(a) The outer membrane which invests the fetus in the womb; also, the
similar membrane investing many ova at certain stages of development.
(b) The true skin, or cutis.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The outer membrane of seeds of plants.

CHORISIS
Cho"ri*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The separation of a leaf or floral organ into two more parts.

Note: In collateral chorisis the parts are side by side.
 -- In parallel or median chorisis they are one in front of another.

CHORIST
Cho"rist, n. Etym: [F. choriste.]

Defn: A singer in a choir; a chorister. [R.]

CHORISTER
Chor"is*ter, n. Etym: [See Chorus.]

1. One of a choir; a singer in a chorus. Dryden.

2. One who leads a choir in church music. [U. S.]

CHORISTIC
Cho*ris"tic, a.

Defn: Choric; choral. [R.]

CHOROGRAPH
Cho"ro*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: An instrument for constructing triangles in marine surveying,
etc.

CHOROGRAPHER
Cho*rog"ra*pher, n.

1. One who describes or makes a map of a district or region. "The
chorographers of Italy." Sir T. Browne.

2. A geographical antiquary; one who investigates the locality of
ancient places.

CHOROGRAPHICAL
Cho`ro*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to chorography.
 -- Cho`ro*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

CHOROGRAPHY
Cho*rog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [L. chorographia, Gr.

Defn: the mapping or description of a region or district.
The chorography of their provinces. Sir T. Browne.

CHOROID
Cho"roid, a. Etym: [gr. (Anat.)

Defn: resembling the chorion; as, the choroid plexuses of the
ventricles of the brain, and the choroid coat of the eyeball.
 -- n.

Defn: The choroid coat of the eye. See Eye. Choroid plexus (Anat.),
one of the delicate fringelike processes, consisting almost entirely
of blood vessels, which project into the ventricles of the brain.

CHOROIDAL
Cho*roid"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the choroid coat.

CHOROLOGY
Cho*rol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Biol.)

Defn: The science which treats of the laws of distribution of living
organisms over the earth's surface as to latitude, altitude,
locality, etc.
Its distribution or chorology. Huxley.

CHOROMETRY
Cho*rom"e*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -metry.]

Defn: The art of surveying a region or district.

CHORTLE
Chor"tle, v. t. & i.  [imp. & p. p. Chortled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chor"tling.]

Defn: A word coined by Lewis Carroll (Charles L. Dodgson), and
usually explained as a combination of chuckle and snort. [Humorous]

O frabjous day ! Callooh ! Callay !
He chortled in his joy.
Lewis Carroll.

CHORUS
Cho"rus, n.; pl. Choruses. Etym: [L., a dance in a ring, a dance
accompanied with song; a chorus, a band of dancers and singers. Gr.
Choir.]

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: A band of singers and dancers.
The Grecian tragedy was at first nothing but a chorus of singers.
Dryden.

2. (Gr. Drama)

Defn: A company of persons supposed to behold what passed in the acts
of a tragedy, and to sing the sentiments which the events suggested
in couplets or verses between the acts; also, that which was thus
sung by the chorus.
What the lofty, grave tragedians taught In chorus or iambic. Milton.

3. An interpreter in a dumb show or play. [Obs.]

4. (Mus.)

Defn: A company of singers singing in concert.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: A composition of two or more parts, each of which is intended
to be sung by a number of voices.

6. (Mus.)

Defn: Parts of a song or hymn recurring at intervals, as at the end
of stanzas; also, a company of singers who join with the singer or
choir in singer or choir in singing such parts.

7. The simultaneous of a company in any noisy demonstration; as, a
Chorus of shouts and catcalls.

CHORUS
Cho"rus, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chorused; p. pr. & vb. n. Chorusing.]

Defn: To sing in chorus; to exclaim simultaneously. W. D. Howells.

CHOSE
Chose, n.; pl. Choses. Etym: [F., fr. L. causa cause, reason. See
Cause.] (Law)

Defn: A thing; personal property. Chose in action, a thing of which
one has not possession or actual enjoyment, but only a right to it,
or a right to demand it by action at law, and which does not exist at
the time in specie; a personal right to a thing not reduced to
possession, but recoverable by suit at law; as a right to recover
money due on a contract, or damages for a tort, which can not be
enforced against a reluctant party without suit.
 -- Chose in possession, a thing in possession, as distinguished from
a thing in action.
 -- Chose local, a thing annexed to a place, as a mill.
 -- Chose transitory, a thing which is movable. Cowell. Blount.

CHOSE
Chose,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Choose.

CHOSEN
Cho"sen, p. p. of Choose.

Defn: Selected from a number; picked out; choice.
Seven hundred chosen men left-handed. Judg. xx. 16.

CHOSEN
Cho"sen, n.

Defn: One who, or that which is the object of choice or special
favor.

CHOU
Chou, n.; pl. Choux (#). [F., fr. L. caulis stalk.]

1. A cabbage.

2.  A kind of light pastry, usually in the form of a small round
cake, and with a filling, as of jelly or cream.

3.  A bunch, knot, or rosette of ribbon or other material, used as an
ornament in women's dress.

CHOUAN
Chou"an, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: One of the royalist insurgents in western France (Brittany,
etc.), during and after the French revolution.

CHOUGH
Chough, n. Etym: [OE. choughe, kowe (and cf. OE. ca), fr. AS. ceó;
cf. also D. kauw, OHG. chaha; perh. akin to E. caw. *22. Cf. Caddow.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of the Crow family (Fregilus graculus) of Europe. It is
of a black color, with a long, slender, curved bill and red legs; --
also called chauk, chauk-daw, chocard, Cornish chough, red-legged
crow. The name is also applied to several allied birds, as the Alpine
chough. Cornish chough (Her.), a bird represented black, with red
feet, and beak; -- called also aylet and sea swallow.

CHOUICHA
Chou"i*cha, n. Etym: [Native name] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The salmon of the Columbia River or California. See Quinnat.

CHOUKA
Chou"ka, n. Etym: [Native name] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Indian four-horned antelope; the chikara.

CHOULE
Choule, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Jowl. Sir W. Scott.

CHOULTRY
Choul"try, n.

Defn: See Choltry.

CHOUSE
Chouse, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Choused; p. pr. & vb. n. Chousing.] Etym:
[From Turk. cha\'d4sh a messenger or interpreter, one of whom,
attached to the Turkish embassy, in 1609 cheated the Turkish
merchants resident in England out of £4,000.]

Defn: To cheat, trick, defraud; -- followed by of, or out of; as, to
chouse one out of his money. [Colloq.]
The undertaker of the afore-cited poesy hath choused your highness.
Landor.

CHOUSE
Chouse, n.

1. One who is easily cheated; a tool; a simpleton; a gull. Hudibras.

2. A trick; sham; imposition. Johnson.

3. A swindler. B. Jonson.

CHOUT
Chout, n. Etym: [Mahratta chauth one fourth part.]

Defn: An assessment equal to a fourth part of the revenue. [India] J.
Mill.

CHOW
Chow, n. [Chin chou.]

Defn: A prefecture or district of the second rank in China, or the
chief city of such a district; -- often part of the name of a city,
as in Foochow.

CHOWCHOW
Chow"chow`, a. Etym: [Chin.]

Defn: Consisting of several kinds mingled together; mixed; as,
chowchow sweetmeats (preserved fruits put together).

Chowchow chop, the last lighter containing the small sundry packages
sent off to fill up a ship. S. W. Williams.

CHOWCHOW
Chow"chow`, n. (Com.)

Defn: A kind of mixed pickles.

CHOWDER
Chow"der, n. Etym: [F. chaudière a kettle, a pot. Cf. Caldron.]

1. (Cookery)

Defn: A dish made of fresh fish or clams, biscuit, onions, etc.,
stewed together.

2. A seller of fish. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. Chowder beer, a liquor
made by boiling black spruce in water and mixing molasses with the
decoction.

CHOWDER
Chow"der, v. t.

Defn: To make a chowder of.

CHOWRY
Chow"ry, n. Etym: [Hind. chaunri.]

Defn: A whisk to keep off files, used in the East Indies. Malcom.

CHOWTER
Chow"ter, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OE. chowre, and Prov. E. chow, to
grumble.]

Defn: To grumble or mutter like a froward child. [Obs.] E. Phillips.

CHOY ROOT
Choy" root`.

Defn: See Chay root.

CHREMATISTICS
Chre`ma*tis"tics, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The science of wealth; the science, or a branch of the science,
of political economy.

CHREOTECHNICS
Chre`o*tech"nics, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The science of the useful arts, esp. agriculture, manufactures,
and commerce. [R.]

CHRESTOMATHIC
Chres`to*math"ic, a.

Defn: Teaching what is useful. "A chrestomathic school." Southey.

CHRESTOMATHY
Chres*tom"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A selection of passages, with notes, etc., to be used in
acquiring a language; as, a Hebrew chrestomathy.

CHRISM
Chrism, n. Etym: [OE. crisme, from AS. crisma; also OE. creme, fr.
OF. cresme, like the AS. word fr. LL. chrisma, fr. Gr. friare,
fricare, to rub, Skr. gharsh, E. friable, friction. Cf. Chrisom.]
(Gr. & R. C. Church

1. Olive oil mixed with balm and spices, consecrated by the bishop on
Maundy Thursday, and used in the administration of baptism,
confirmation, ordination, etc.

2. The same as Chrisom.

CHRISMAL
Chris"mal, a. Etym: [LL. chrismalis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to or used in chrism.

CHRISMATION
Chris*ma"tion, n. Etym: [LL. chrismatio.]

Defn: The act of applying the chrism, or consecrated oil.
Chrismation or cross-signing with ointment, was used in baptism. Jer.
Taylor.

CHRISMATORY
Chris"ma*to*ry, n. Etym: [LL. chrismatorium.]

Defn: A cruet or vessel in which chrism is kept.

CHRISOM
Chris"om, n. Etym: [See Chrism.]

1. A white cloth, anointed with chrism, or a white mantle thrown over
a child when baptized or christened. [Obs.]

2. A child which died within a month after its baptism; -- so called
from the chrisom cloth which was used as a shroud for it. [Obs.]
Blount.

CHRIST
Christ, n. Etym: [L. Christus, Gr. chri`ein to anoint. See Chrism.]

Defn: The Anointed; an appellation given to Jesus, the Savior. It is
synonymous with the Hebrew Messiah.

CHRISTCROSS
Christ"cross`, n.

1. The mark of the cross, as cut, painted, written, or stamped on
certain objects, -- sometimes as the sign of 12 o'clock on a dial.
The fescue of the dial is upon the christcross of noon. Old Play.
Nares.

2. The beginning and the ending. [Obs.] Quarles.

CHRISTCROSS-ROW
Christ"cross-row`,

Defn: The alphabet; -- formerly so called, either from the cross
usually set before it, or from a superstitious custom, sometimes
practiced, of writing it in the form of a cross, by way of a charm.
From infant conning of the Christcross-row. Wordsworth.

CHRISTEN
Chris"ten, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Christened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Christening.] Etym: [AS. cristnian to make a Christian, fr. cristen a
Christian.]

1. To baptize and give a Christian name to.

2. To give a name; to denominate. "Christen the thing what you will."
Bp. Burnet.

3. To Christianize. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

4. To use for the first time. [Colloq.]

CHRISTENDOM
Chris"ten*dom, n. Etym: [AS. cristend; cristen a Christian + -dom.]

1. The profession of faith in Christ by baptism; hence, the Christian
religion, or the adoption of it. [Obs.] Shak.

2. The name received at baptism; or, more generally, any name or
appelation. [Obs.]
Pretty, fond, adoptious christendoms. Shak.

3. That portion of the world in which Christianity prevails, or which
is governed under Christian institutions, in distinction from heathen
or Mohammedan lands.
The Arian doctrine which then divided Christendom. Milton
A wide and still widening Christendom. Coleridge.

4. The whole body of Christians. Hooker.

CHRISTIAN
Chris"tian, n. Etym: [L. christianus, Gr. cristen. See Christ.]

1. One who believes, or professes or is assumed to believe, in Jesus
Christ, and the truth as taught by Him; especially, one whose inward
and outward life is conformed to the doctrines of Christ.
The disciples were called Christians first in Antioch. Acts xi. 26.

2. One born in a Christian country or of Christian parents, and who
has not definitely becomes an adherent of an opposing system.

3. (Eccl.)
(a) One of a Christian denomination which rejects human creeds as
bases of fellowship, and sectarian names. They are congregational in
church government, and baptize by immersion. They are also called
Disciples of Christ, and Campbellites.
(b) One of a sect (called Christian Connection) of open-communion
immersionists. The Bible is their only authoritative rule of faith
and practice.

Note: In this sense, often pronounced, but not by the members of the
sects, kris"chan.

CHRISTIAN
Chris"tian, a.

1. Pertaining to Christ or his religion; as, Christian people.

3. Pertaining to the church; ecclesiastical; as, a Christian court.
Blackstone.

4. Characteristic of Christian people; civilized; kind; kindly;
gentle; beneficent.
The graceful tact; the Christian art. Tennyson.
Christian Commission. See under Commission.
 -- Christian court. Same as Ecclesiastical court.
 -- Christian era, the present era, commencing with the birth of
Christ. It is supposed that owing to an error of a monk (Dionysius
Exiguus, d. about 556) employed to calculate the era, its
commencement was fixed three or four years too late, so that 1890
should be 1893 or 1894.
 -- Christian name, the name given in baptism, as distinct from the
family name, or surname.

CHRISTIAN ERA
Christian Era.

Defn: The era in use in all Christian countries, which was intended
to commence with the birth of Christ. The era as now established was
first used by Dionysius Exiguus (died about 540), who placed the
birth of Christ on the 25th of December in the year of Rome 754,
which year he counted as 1 a. d. This date for Christ's birth is now
generally thought to be about four years too late.

CHRISTIANISM
Chris`tian*ism, n. Etym: [L. christianismus, Gr. christianisme.]

1. The Christian religion. [Obs.] Milton.

2. The Christian world; Christendom. [Obs.] Johnson

CHRISTIANITE
Chris"tian*ite, n. Etym: [In sense (a) named after Christian
Frederic, of Denmark; in sense (b) after Christian VII., of Denmark.]
(Min.)
(a) Same as Anorthite. [R.]
(b) See Phillipsite.

CHRISTIANITY
Chris*tian"i*ty, n. Etym: [OE. cristiente, OF. cristienté, F.
chrétienté, fr. L. christianitas. ]

1. The religion of Christians; the system of doctrines and precepts
taught by Christ.

2. Practical conformity of one's inward and outward life to the
spirit of the Christian religion

3. The body of Christian believers. [Obs.]
To Walys fled the christianitee Of olde Britons. Chaucer.

CHRISTIANIZATION
Chris`tian*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of converting or being converted to a true
Christianity.

CHRISTIANIZE
Chris"tian*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Christianized (; p. pr. vb. n.
Christianizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. christianiser, L. christianizare, fr.
Gr.

1. To make Christian; to convert to Christianity; as, to Christianize
pagans.

2. To imbue with or adapt to Christian principles.
Christianized philosophers. I. Taylor.

CHRISTIANIZE
Chris"tian*ize, v. i.

Defn: To adopt the character or belief of a Christian; to become
Christian.
The pagans began to Christianize. Latham.

CHRISTIANLIKE
Chris"tian*like`, a.

Defn: Becoming to a Christian.
A virtuous and a Christianlike conclusion. Shak.

CHRISTIANLY
Chris"tian*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner becoming the principles of the Christian religion.
Sufferings . . . patiently and Christianly borne. Sharp.

CHRISTIANLY
Chris"tian*ly, a.

Defn: Christianlike. Longfellow.

CHRISTIANNESS
Chris"tian*ness, n.

Defn: Consonance with the doctrines of Christianity. [Obs.] Hammond.

CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
Christian Science.

Defn: A system of healing disease of mind and body which teaches that
all cause and effect is mental, and that sin, sickness, and death
will be destroyed by a full understanding of the Divine Principle of
Jesus' teaching and healing. The system was founded by Rev. Mary
Baker Glover Eddy, of Concord, N. H., in 1866, and bases its teaching
on the Scriptures as understood by its adherents.

CHRISTIAN SCIENTIST
Christian Scientist.

Defn: A believer in Christian Science; one who practices its
teachings.

CHRISTIAN SENECA
Christian Seneca.

Defn: Joseph Hall (1574 -- 1656), Bishop of Norwich, a divine eminent
as a moralist.

CHRISTIAN SOCIALISM
Christian Socialism.

Defn: Any theory or system that aims to combine the teachings of
Christ with the teachings of socialism in their applications to life;
Christianized socialism; esp., the principles of this nature
advocated by F. D. Maurice, Charles Kingsley, and others in England
about 1850. -- Christian socialist.

CHRISTLESS
Christ"less, a.

Defn: Without faith in Christ; unchristian. Tennyson.

CHRISTLIKE
Christ"like`, a.

Defn: Resembling Christ in character, actions, etc.
 -- Christ"like`ness, n.

CHRISTLY
Christ"ly, a.

Defn: Christlike. H. Bushnell.

CHRISTMAS
Christ"mas, n. Etym: [Christ + mass.]

Defn: An annual church festival (December 25) and in some States a
legal holiday, in memory of the birth of Christ, often celebrated by
a particular church service, and also by special gifts, greetings,
and hospitality. Christmas box. (a) A box in which presents are
deposited at Christmas. (b) A present or small gratuity given to
young people and servants at Christmas; a Christmas gift.
 -- Christmas carol, a carol sung at, or suitable for, Christmas.
 -- Christmas day. Same as Christmas.
 -- Christmas eve, the evening before Christmas.
 -- Christmas fern (Bot.), an evergreen North American fern (Aspidium
acrostichoides), which is much used for decoration in winter.
 -- Christmas flower, Christmas rose, the black hellebore, a
poisonous plant of the buttercup family, which in Southern Europe
often produces beautiful roselike flowers midwinter.
 -- Christmas tree, a small evergreen tree, set up indoors, to be
decorated with bonbons, presents, etc., and illuminated on Christmas
eve.

CHRISTMASTIDE
Christ"mas*tide`, n. Etym: [Christmas + tide time.]

Defn: The season of Christmas.

CHRISTOCENTRIC
Chris"to*cen"tric, a. Etym: [Christ + centric.]

Defn: Making Christ the center, about whom all things are grouped, as
in religion or history; tending toward Christ, as the central object
of thought or emotion. J. W. Chadwick.

CHRISTOLOGY
Chris*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Crist + -logy.]

Defn: A treatise on Christ; that department of theology which treats
of the personality, attributes, or life of Christ.

CHRISTOM
Chris"tom, n.

Defn: See Chrisom. [Obs.] Shak.

CHRISTOPHANY
Chris*toph"a*ny, n. Etym: [Christ + Gr.

Defn: An appearance of Christ, as to his disciples after the
crucifixion.

CHRIST'S-THORN
Christ's-thorn`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: One of several prickly or thorny shrubs found in Palestine,
especially the Paliurus aculeatus, Zizyphus Spina-Christi, and Z.
vulgaris. The last bears the fruit called jujube, and may be
considered to have been the most readily obtainable for the Crown of
Thorns.

CHROMASCOPE
Chro"ma*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: An instrument for showing the optical effects of color.

CHROMATE
Chro"mate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chromate. See Chrome.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of chromic acid.

CHROMATIC
Chro*mat"ic, a. Etym: [L. chromaticus, Gr.

1. Relating to color, or to colors.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: Proceeding by the smaller intervals (half steps or semitones)
of the scale, instead of the regular intervals of the diatonic scale.

Note: The intermediate tones were formerly written and printed in
colors. Chromatic aberration. (Opt.) See Aberration, 4.
 -- Chromatic printing, printing from type or blocks covered with
inks of various colors.
 -- Chromatic scale (Mus.), the scale consisting of thirteen tones,
including the eight scale tones and the five intermediate tones.

CHROMATICAL
Chro*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Chromatic. [Obs.]

CHROMATICALLY
Chro*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a chromatic manner.

CHROMATICS
Chro*mat"ics, n.

Defn: The science of colors; that part of optics which treats of the
properties of colors.

CHROMATIN
Chro"ma*tin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Tissue which is capable of being stained by dyes.

CHROMATISM
Chro"ma*tism, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Optics)

Defn: The state of being colored, as in the case of images formed by
a lens.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An abnormal coloring of plants.

CHROMATOGENOUS
Chro`ma*tog"e*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. -genous.]

Defn: Producing color.

CHROMATOGRAPHY
Chro`ma*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A treatise on colors

CHROMATOLOGY
Chro`ma*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: A treatise on colors.

CHROMATOPHORE
Chro"ma*to*phore`, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A contractile cell or vesicle containing liquid pigment and
capable of changing its form or size, thus causing changes of color
in the translucent skin of such animals as possess them. They are
highly developed and numerous in the cephalopods.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the granules of protoplasm, which in mass give color to
the part of the plant containing them.

CHROMATOSCOPE
Chro"ma*to*scope`, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Astron.)

Defn: A reflecting telescope, part of which is made to rotate
eccentrically, so as to produce a ringlike image of a star, instead
of a point; -- used in studying the scintillation of the stars.

CHROMATOSPHERE
Chro"ma*to*sphere`, n.

Defn: A chromosphere. [R.]

CHROMATROPE
Chro"ma*trope, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for exhibiting certain chromatic effects of light
(depending upon the persistence of vision and mixture of colors) by
means of rapidly rotating disks variously colored.

2. A device in a magic lantern or stereopticon to produce
kaleidoscopic effects.

CHROMATYPE
Chro"ma*type, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Photog.)

Defn: A colored photographic picture taken upon paper made sensitive
with potassium bichromate or some other salt of chromium.

2. The process by which such picture is made.

CHROME
Chrome, n.

Defn: Same as Chromium. Chrome alum (Chem.), a dark violet substance,
(SO4)3Cr2.K2SO4.24H2O, analogous to, and crystallizing like, common
alum. It is regarded as a double sulphate of chromium and potassium.
 -- Chrome green (a) The green oxide of chromium, Cr2O3, used in
enamel painting, and glass staining. (b) A pigment made by mixing
chrome yellow with Prussian blue.
 -- Chrome red, a beautiful red pigment originally prepared from the
basic chromate of lead, but now made from red oxide of lead.
 -- Chrome yellow, a brilliant yellow pigment, PbCrO4, used by
painters.

CHROME STEEL
Chrome steel.

Defn: Same as Chromium steel, under Steel.

CHROMIC
Chro"mic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, chromium; -- said of the
compounds of chromium in which it has its higher valence. Chromic
acid, an acid, H2CrO4, analogous to sulphuric acid, not readily
obtained in the free state, but forming well known salts, many of
which are colored pigments, as chrome yellow, chrome red, etc.
 -- Chromic anhydride, a brilliant red crystalline substance, CrO3,
regarded as the anhydride of chromic acid. It is one of the most
powerful oxidizers known.

CHROMID
Chro"mid, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Chromidæ, a family of fresh-water fishes abundant in
the tropical parts of America and Africa. Some are valuable food
fishes, as the bulti of the Nile.

CHROMIDROSIS
Chro`mi*dro"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Secretion of abnormally colored perspiration.

CHROMISM
Chro"mism, n.

Defn: Same as Chromatism.

CHROMITE
Chro"mite, n.

1. (Min.)

Defn: A black submetallic mineral consisting of oxide of chromium and
iron; -- called also chromic iron.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound or salt of chromous hydroxide regarded as an acid.
[R.]

CHROMIUM
Chro"mi*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A comparatively rare element occurring most abundantly in the
mineral chromite. Atomic weight 52.5. Symbol Cr. When isolated it is
a hard, brittle, grayish white metal, fusible with difficulty. Its
chief commercial importance is for its compounds, as potassium
chromate, lead chromate, etc., which are brilliantly colored and are
used dyeing and calico printing. Called also chrome.

CHROMO
Chro"mo, n.; pl. Chromos. Etym: [Abbrev. from chromolithograph.]

Defn: A chromolithograph.

CHROMOBLAST
Chro"mo*blast, n. Etym: [Gr. -blast.]

Defn: An embryonic cell which develops into a pigment cell.

CHROMOGEN
Chro"mo*gen, Etym: [Gr. -gen.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Vegetable coloring matter other than green; chromule.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Any colored compound, supposed to contain one or more
chromophores.

CHROMOGENIC
Chro"mo*gen"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Containing, or capable of forming, chromogen; as, chromogenic
bacteria.

CHROMOGRAPH
Chro"mo*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: An apparatus by which a number of copies of written matter,
maps, plans, etc., can be made; -- called also hectograph.

CHROMOLEUCITE
Chro`mo*leu"cite, n. Etym: [Gr. leucite.] (Bot.)

Defn: A chromoplastid.

CHROMOLITHOGRAPH
Chro`mo*lith"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. lithograph.]

Defn: A picture printed in tints and colors by repeated impressions
from a series of stones prepared by the lithographic process.

CHROMOLITHOGRAPHER
Chro`mo*li*thog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who is engaged in chromolithography.

CHROMOLITHOGRAPHIC
Chro"mo*lith`o*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or made by, chromolithography.

CHROMOLITHOGRAPHY
Chro"mo*li*thog"ra*phy, n.

Defn: Lithography adapted to printing in inks of various colors.

CHROMOPHANE
Chro"mo*phane, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A general name for the several coloring matters, red, green,
yellow, etc., present in the inner segments in the cones of the
retina, held in solution by fats, and slowly decolorized by light;
distinct from the photochemical pigments of the rods of the retina.

CHROMOPHORE
Chro"mo*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Any chemical group or residue (as NO

CHROMOPHOTOGRAPH
Chro`mo*pho"to*graph, n. [Gr.  color + photograph.]

Defn: A picture made by any of the processes for reproducing
photographs in colors. --Chro`mo*pho`to*graph"ic (#), a.

CHROMOPHOTOGRAPHY
Chro`mo*pho*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. photography.]

Defn: The art of producing photographs in colors.

CHROMOPHOTOLITHOGRAPH
Chro"mo*pho`to*lith"o*graph, n.

Defn: A photolithograph printed in colors.

CHROMOPLASTID
Chro`mo*plas"tid, n. Etym: [Gr. plastid.] (Bot.)

Defn: A protoplasmic granule of some other color than green; -- also
called chromoleucite.

CHROMOSOME
Chro"mo*some`, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: One of the minute bodies into which the chromatin of the
nucleus is resolved during mitotic cell division; the idant of
Weismann.

CHROMOSPHERE
Chro"mo*sphere, n. Etym: [Gr. sphere.] (Astron.)

Defn: An atmosphere of rare matter, composed principally of
incandescent hydrogen gas, surrounding the sun and enveloping the
photosphere. Portions of the chromosphere are here and there thrown
up into enormous tongues of flame.

CHROMOSPHERIC
Chro`mo*spher"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the chromosphere.

CHROMOTYPE
Chro"mo*type, n. Etym: [Gr. -type.]

1. A sheet printed in colors by any process, as a chromolithograph.
See Chromolithograph.

2. A photographic picture in the natural colors.

CHROMOUS
Chro"mous, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, chromium, when this element
has a valence lower than that in chromic compounds. Chromous acid, a
bluish gray powder, CrO.OH, of weak acid properties and regard as an
acid.

CHROMULE
Chro"mule, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A general name for coloring matter of plants other than
chlorophyll, especially that of petals.

CHRONIC
Chron"ic, a. Etym: [L. chronicus, Gr. chronique.]

1. Relating to time; according to time.

2. Continuing for a long time; lingering; habitual. Chronic disease,
one which is inveterate, of long continuance, or progresses slowly,
in distinction from an acute disease, which speedly terminates.

CHRONICAL
Chron"ic*al, a.

Defn: Chronic.
Partly on a chronical, and partly on a topical method. J. A.
Alexander.

CHRONICLE
Chron"i*cle, n. Etym: [OE. cronicle, fr. cronique, OF. cronique, F.
chronique, L. chronica, fr. Gr. Chronic.]

1. An historical register or account of facts or events disposed in
the order of time.

2. A narrative of events; a history; a record.

3. pl.

Defn: The two canonical books of the Old Testament in which
immediately follow 2 Kings.

Syn. - Register; record; annals. See History.

CHRONICLE
Chron"i*cle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chronicled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chronicling.]

Defn: To record in a history or chronicle; to record; to register.
Shak.

CHRONICLER
Chron"i*cler, n.

Defn: A writer of a chronicle; a recorder of events in the order of
time; an historian.
Such an honest chronicler as Griffith. Shak.

CHRONIQUE
Chro`nique", n. Etym: [F. See Chronicle.]

Defn: A chronicle. L. Addison.

CHRONOGRAM
Chron"o*gram, n. Etym: [Gr. chronogramme.]

1. An inscription in which certain numeral letters, made to appear
specially conspicuous, on being added together, express a particular
date or epoch, as in the motto of a medal struck by Gustavus Adolphus
in 1632: ChrIstVs DVX; ergo trIVMphVs. - the capitals of which give,
when added as numerals, the sum 1632.

2. The record or inscription made by a chronograph.

CHRONOGRAMMATIC; CHRONOGRAMMATICAL
Chron`o*gram*mat"ic, Chron`o*gram*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
chronogrammatique.]

Defn: Belonging to a chronogram, or containing one.

CHRONOGRAMMATIST
Chron`o*gram"ma*tist, n.

Defn: A writer of chronograms.

CHRONOGRAPH
Chron"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph: cf. F. chronographe.]

1. An instrument for measuring or recording intervals of time, upon a
revolving drum or strip of paper moved by clockwork. The action of
the stylus or pen is controlled by electricity.

2. Same as Chronogram, 1. [R.]

3. A chronoscope.

CHRONOGRAPHER
Chro*nog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who writes a chronography; a chronologer. Tooke.

CHRONOGRAPHIC
Chron`o*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chronograph.

CHRONOGRAPHY
Chro*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. Chronograph.]

Defn: A description or record of past time; history. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

CHRONOLOGER
Chro*nol"o*ger, n.

Defn: Same as Chronologist.

CHRONOLOGIC; CHRONOLOGICAL
Chron`o*log"ic, Chron`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Relating to chronology; containing an account of events in the
order of time; according to the order of time; as, chronological
tables. Raleigh.
 -- Chron`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

CHRONOLOGIST; CHRONOLOGER
Chro*nol"o*gist, Chro*nol"o*ger, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A person who investigates dates of events and transactions; one
skilled in chronology.
That learned noise and dust of the chronologist is wholly to be
avoided. Locke.
THe most exact chronologers tell us that Christ was born in October,
and not in December. John Knox.

CHRONOLOGY
Chro*nol"o*gy, n.; pl. Chronologies. Etym: [Gr. chronologie.]

Defn: The science which treats of measuring time by regular divisions
or periods, and which assigns to events or transactions their proper
dates.
If history without chronology is dark and confused, chronology
without history is dry and insipid. A. Holmes.

CHRONOMETER
Chro*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. chronomètre.]

1. An instrument for measuring time; a timekeeper.

2. A portable timekeeper, with a heavy compensation balance, and
usually beating half seconds; -- intended to keep time with great
accuracy for use an astronomical observations, in determining
longitude, etc.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A metronome. Box chronometer. See under Box.
 -- Pocket chronometer, a chronometer in the form of a large watch.
 -- To rate a chronometer. See Rate, v. t.

CHRONOMETRIC; CHRONOMETRICAL
Chron`o*met"ric, Chron`o*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
chronométrique.]

Defn: Pertaining to a chronometer; measured by a chronometer.

CHRONOMETRY
Chro*nom"e*try, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chronométrie.]

Defn: The art of measuring time; the measuring of time by periods or
divisions.

CHRONOPHER
Chron"o*pher, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An instrument signaling the correct time to distant points by
electricity.

CHRONOPHOTOGRAPH
Chron`o*pho"to*graph, n. [Gr.  time + photograph.]

Defn: One of a set of photographs of a moving object, taken for the
purpose of recording and exhibiting successive phases of the motion.
--Chron`o*pho*tog"ra*phy, n.

CHRONOSCOPE
Chron"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring minute intervals of time; used in
determining the velocity of projectiles, the duration of short-lived
luminous phenomena, etc.

CHRYSALID
Chrys"a*lid, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a chrysalis; resembling a chrysalis.

CHRYSALID
Chrys"a*lid, n.; pl. Chrysalids.

Defn: See Chrysalis.

CHRYSALIS
Chrys"a*lis, n.; pl. Chrysalides. Etym: [L. chrysallis the gold-
colored pupa of butterflies, Gr. Aurelia.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pupa state of certain insects, esp. of butterflies, from
which the perfect insect emerges. See Pupa, and Aurelia (a).

CHRYSANILINE
Chrys*an"i*line, n. Etym: [Gr. anilene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow substance obtained as a by-product in the manufacture
of rosaniline. It dyes silk a fine golden-yellow color.

CHRYSANTHEMUM
Chrys*an"the*mum, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of composite plants, mostly perennial, and of many
species including the many varieties of garden chrysanthemums (annual
and perennial), and also the feverfew and the oxeye daisy.

CHRYSAROBIN
Chrys`a*ro"bin, n. Etym: [Gr. araroba a foreign name of Goa powder +
-in.] (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter, yellow substance forming the essential constituent of
Goa powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid proper; hence formerly
called also chrysphanic acid.

CHRYSAURIN
Chrys*au"rin, n. Etym: [Gr. aurum gold. So called from its color.]

Defn: An orange-colored dyestuff, of artificial production.

CHRYSELEPHANTINE
Chrys`el*e*phan"tine, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Composed of, or adorned with, gold and ivory.

Note: The chryselephantine statues of the Greeks were built up with
inferior materials, veneered, as it were, with ivory for the flesh,
and gold decorated with color for the hair and garments.

CHRYSENE
Chry"sene, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: One of the higher aromatic hydrocarbons of coal tar, allied to
napthalene and anthracene. It is a white crystalline substance,
C18H12, of strong blue fluorescence, but generally colored yellow by
impurities.

CHRYSOBERYL
Chrys"o*ber`yl, n. Etym: [L. chrysoberyllus, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral, found in crystals, of a yellow to green or brown
color, and consisting of aluminia and glucina. It is very hard, and
is often used as a gem.

CHRYSOCHLORE
Chrys"o*chlore, n. Etym: [Gr. chrysochlore.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South African mole of the genus Chrysochloris; the golden
mole, the fur of which reflects brilliant metallic hues of green and
gold.

CHRYSOCOLLA
Chrys"o*col`la, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring massive, of a blue or
greenish blue color.

CHRYSOGEN
Chrys"o*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow crystalline substance extracted from crude anthracene.

CHRYSOGRAPHY
Chry*sog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. The art of writing in letters of gold.

2. A writing executed in letters of gold.

CHRYSOIDINE
Chrys*o"ï*dine, n. Etym: [Gr. -oid + -ine.] (Chem.)

Defn: An artificial, yellow, crystalline dye, C6H5N2.C6H3(NH2)2.
Also, one of a group of dyestuffs resembling chrysoïdine proper.

CHRYSOLITE
Chrys"o*lite, n. Etym: [L. chrysolithos, Gr. chrysolithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral, composed of silica, magnesia, and iron, of a yellow
to green color. It is common in certain volcanic rocks; -- called
also olivine and peridot. Sometimes used as a gem. The name was also
early used for yellow varieties of tourmaline and topaz.

CHRYSOLOGY
Chry*sol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That branch of political economy which relates to the
production of wealth.

CHRYSOPA
Chrys*o"pa, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of neuropterous insects. See Lacewing.

CHRYSOPHANE
Chrys"o*phane, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside extracted from rhubarb as a bitter, yellow,
crystalline powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid on decomposition.

CHRYSOPHANIC
Chrys`o*phan"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, or resembling, chrysophane.
Chrysophanic acid (Chem.), a yellow crystalline substance extracted
from rhubarb, yellow dock, sienna, chrysarobin, etc., and shown to be
a derivative of an anthracene. It is used in the treatment of skin
diseases; -- called also rhein, rheic acid, rhubarbarin, etc.

CHRYSOPRASE
Chrys"o*prase, n. Etym: [OE. crisopace, OF. crisoprace, F.
chrysoprase, L. chrysoprasus, fr. Gr. (Min.)

Defn: An apple-green variety of chalcedony, colored by nickel. It has
a dull flinty luster, and is sometimes used in jewelry.

CHRYSOPRASUS
Chry*sop"ra*sus, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: See Chrysoprase. Rev. xxi. 20.

CHRYSOSPERM
Chrys"o*sperm, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The seed of gold; a means of creating gold. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

CHRYSOTYPE
Chrys"o*type, n. Etym: [Gr. -type.]

1. A photographic picture taken upon paper prepared by the use of a
sensitive salt of iron and developed by the application of chloride
of gold. Abney.

2. 2process, invented by Sir J.Herschel.

CHTHONIAN
Chtho"ni*an, a. [Gr.  in or under the earth, fr. , , earth.]

Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, gods or spirits of the
underworld; esp., relating to the underworld gods of the Greeks,
whose worship is widely considered as more primitive in form than
that of the Olympian gods. The characteristics of chthonian worship
are propitiatory and magical rites and generalized or euphemistic
names of the deities, which are supposed to have been primarily
ghosts.

CHTHONIC
Chthon"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the earth; earthy; as, chthonic religions.
[The] chthonic character of the wife of Zeus. Max Müller.

CHTHONOPHAGIA; CHTHONOPHAGY
Chthon`o*pha"gi*a, Chtho*noph"a*gy, n. Etym: [NL. chthonophagia; Gr.

Defn: A disease characterized by an irresistible desire to eat earth,
observed in some parts of the southern United States, the West
Indies, etc.

CHUB
Chub, n. Etym: [This word seems to signify a large or thick fish. Cf.
Sw. kubb a short and thick piece of wood, and perh. F. chabot chub.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A species to fresh-water fish of the Cyprinidæ or Carp family.
The common European species is Leuciscus cephalus; the cheven. In
America the name is applied to various fishes of the same family, of
the genera Semotilus, Squalius, Ceratichthys, etc., and locally to
several very different fishes, as the tautog, black bass, etc. Chub
mackerel (Zoöl.), a species of mackerel (Scomber colias) in some
years found in abundance on the Atlantic coast, but absent in others;
-- called also bull mackerel, thimble-eye, and big-eye mackerel.
 -- Chub sucker (Zoöl.), a fresh-water fish of the United States
(Erimyzon sucetta); -- called also creekfish.

CHUBBED
Chub"bed, a.

Defn: Chubby. [R.] H. Brooke.

CHUBBEDNESS
Chub"bed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being chubby.

CHUBBY
Chub"by, a.

Defn: Like a chub; plump, short, and thick. "Chubby faces." I.
Taylor.

CHUB-FACED
Chub"-faced`, a.

Defn: Having a plump, short face.

CHUCK
Chuck, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chucked; p. pr. & vb. n. Chucking.] Etym:
[Imitative of the sound.]

1. To make a noise resembling that of a hen when she calls her
chickens; to cluck.

2. To chuckle; to laugh. [R.] Marston.

CHUCK
Chuck, v. t.

Defn: To call, as a hen her chickens. Dryden.

CHUCK
Chuck, n.

1. The chuck or call of a hen.

2. A sudden, small noise.

3. A word of endearment; -- corrupted from chick. "Pray, chuck, come
hither." Shak.

CHUCK
Chuck, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chucked; p. pr. & vb. n. Chucking.] Etym:
[F. choquer to strike. Cf. Shock, v. t.]

1. To strike gently; to give a gentle blow to.
Chucked the barmaid under the chin. W. Irving.

2. To toss or throw smartly out of the hand; to pitch. [Colloq.]
"Mahomet Ali will just be chucked into the Nile." Lord Palmerson.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: To place in a chuck, or hold by means of a chuck, as in
turning; to bore or turn (a hole) in a revolving piece held in a
chuck.

CHUCK
Chuck, n.

1. A slight blow or pat under the chin.

2. A short throw; a toss.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: A contrivance or machine fixed to the mandrel of a lathe, for
holding a tool or the material to be operated upon.

Chuck farthing, a play in which a farthing is pitched into a hole;
pitch farthing.
 -- Chuck hole, a deep hole in a wagon rut.
 -- Elliptic chuck, a chuck having a silder and an eccentric circle,
which, as the work turns round, give it a sliding motion across the
center which generates an ellipse. Knight.

CHUCK
Chuck, n.

1. A small pebble; -- called also chuckstone and chuckiestone.
[Scot.]

2. pl.

Defn: A game played with chucks, in which one or more are tossed up
and caught; jackstones. [Scot.]

CHUCK
Chuck, n.

Defn: A piece of the backbone of an animal, from between the neck and
the collar bone, with the adjoining parts, cut for cooking; as, a
chuck steak; a chuck roast. [Colloq.]

CHUCKLE
Chuc"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chuckled; p. pr. & vb. n. Chuckling.]
Etym: [From lst Chuck.]

1. To call, as a hen her chickens; to cluck. [Obs.] Dryden.

2. To fondle; to cocker. [Obs.] Dryden.

CHUCKLE
Chuc"kle, n.

Defn: A short, suppressed laugh; the expression of satisfaction,
exultation, or derision.

CHUCKLE
Chuc"kle, v. i. Etym: [From lst Chuck.]

Defn: To laugh in a suppressed or broken manner, as expressing inward
satisfaction, exultation, or derision.

CHUCKLEHEAD
Chuc"kle*head`, n.

Defn: A person with a large head; a numskull; a dunce. [Low] Knowles.

CHUCKLEHEADED
Chuc"kle*head`ed, a.

Defn: Having a large head; thickheaded; dull; stupid. Smart.

CHUCK-WILL'S-WIDOW
Chuck`-Will's-wid"ow, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A species of goatsucker (Antrostomus Carolinensis), of the
southern United States; -- so called from its note.

CHUD
Chud, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Chew, Cud.]

Defn: To champ; to bite. [Obs.] A. Stafford.

CHUET
Chu"et, n. Etym: [From Chew, v. t.]

Defn: Minced meat. [Obs.] Bacon.

CHUFA
Chu"fa, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Bot.)

Defn: A sedgelike plant (Cyperus esculentus) producing edible tubers,
native about the Mediterranean, now cultivated in many regions; the
earth almond.

CHUFF
Chuff, n. Etym: [Perh. a modification of chub: cf. W. cyff stock,
stump.]

Defn: A coarse or stupid fellow. Shak.

CHUFF
Chuff, a.

Defn: Stupid; churlish. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

CHUFFILY
Chuff"i*ly, adv.

Defn: Clownishly; surlily.

CHUFFINESS
Chuff"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being chuffy.

CHUFFY
Chuff"y, a.

1. Fat or puffed out in the cheeks.

2. Rough; clownish; surly.

CHULAN
Chu"lan, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The fragrant flowers of the Chloranthus inconspicuus, used in
China for perfuming tea.

CHUM
Chum, n. Etym: [Perh. a contraction fr. comrade or chamber fellow:
cf. also AS. cuma a comer, guest.]

Defn: A roommate, especially in a college or university; an old and
intimate friend.

CHUM
Chum, v. i. [imp. p. p. Chummed; p. pr. & vb. n. Chumming.]

Defn: To occupy a chamber with another; as, to chum together at
college. [U. S.]

CHUM
Chum, n.

Defn: Chopped pieces of fish used as bait. [U. S.]

CHUMP
Chump, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kumbr a chopping, E. chop.]

Defn: A short, thick, heavy piece of wood. Morton. Chump end, the
thick end; as, the chump end of a joint of meat. Dickens.

CHUNAM
Chu*nam", n. Etym: [Hind. chuna, from Skr. curna powder, dust; or a
Dravidian word.]

Defn: Quicklime; also, plaster or mortar. [India] Whitworth.

CHUNK
Chunk, n. Etym: [Cf. Chump.]

Defn: A short, thick piece of anything. [Colloq. U. S. & Prov. Eng.]

CHUNKY
Chunk"y, a.

Defn: Short and thick. [U. S.] Kane.

CHUPATTY
Chu*pat"ty, n.; pl. -ties (#). [Hind. chapati.]

Defn: A kind of griddlecake of unleavened bread, used among the
natives of India. [Anglo-Indian]

CHUPRASSY; CHUPRASSIE
Chu*pras"sy Chu*pras"sie, n. [Hind. chaprassi, fr. chapras badge.]

Defn: A messenger or servant wearing an official badge. [Anglo-
Indian]

CHURCH
Church, n. Etym: [OE. chirche, chireche, cherche, Scot. kirk, from
AS. circe, cyrice; akin to D. kerk, Icel. kirkja, Sw. kyrka, Dan.
kirke, G. kirche, OHG. chirihha; all fr. Gr. ç\'d4ra hero, Zend. çura
strong, OIr. caur, cur, hero. Cf. Kirk.]

1. A building set apart for Christian worship.

2. A Jewish or heathen temple. [Obs.] Acts xix. 37.

3. A formally organized body of Christian believers worshiping
together. "When they had ordained them elders in every church." Acts
xiv. 23.

4. A body of Christian believers, holding the same creed, observing
the same rites, and acknowledging the same ecclesiastical authority;
a denomination; as, the Roman Catholic church; the Presbyterian
church.

5. The collective body of Christians.

6. Any body of worshipers; as, the Jewish church; the church of
Brahm.

7. The aggregate of religious influences in a community;
ecclesiastical influence, authority, etc.; as, to array the power of
the church against some moral evil.
Remember that both church and state are properly the rulers of the
people, only because they are their benefactors. Bulwer.

Note: Church is often used in composition to denote something
belonging or relating to the church; as, church authority; church
history; church member; church music, etc. Apostolic church. See
under Apostolic.
 -- Broad church. See Broad Church.
 -- Catholic or Universal church, the whole body of believers in
Christ throughout the world.
 -- Church of England, or English church, the Episcopal church
established and endowed in England by law.
 -- Church living, a benefice in an established church.
 -- Church militant. See under Militant.
 -- Church owl (Zoöl.), the white owl. See Barn owl.
 -- Church rate, a tax levied on parishioners for the maintenance of
the church and its services.
 -- Church session. See under Session.
 -- Church triumphant. See under Triumphant.
 -- Church work, work on, or in behalf of, a church; the work of a
particular church for the spread of religion.
 -- Established church, the church maintained by the civil authority;
a state church.

CHURCH
Church, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Churched; p. pr. & vb. n. Churching.]

Defn: To bless according to a prescribed form, or to unite with in
publicly returning thanks in church, as after deliverance from the
dangers of childbirth; as, the churching of women.

CHURCH-ALE
Church"-ale`, n.

Defn: A church or parish festival (as in commemoration of the
dedication of a church), at which much ale was used. Wright. Nares.

CHURCH-BENCH
Church"-bench`, n.

Defn: A seat in the porch of a church. Shak.

CHURCHDOM
Church"dom, n.

Defn: The institution, government, or authority of a church. [R.] Bp.
Pearson.

CHURCHGOER
Church"go`er, n.

Defn: One who attends church.

CHURCHGOING
Church"go`ing, a.

1. Habitually attending church.

2. Summoning to church.
The sound of the churchgoing bell. Cowper.

CHURCH-HAW
Church"-haw`, n. Etym: [Church + haw a yard.]

Defn: Churchyard. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHURCHISM
Church"ism, n.

Defn: Strict adherence to the forms or principles of some church
organization; sectarianism.

CHURCHLESS
Church"less, a.

Defn: Without a church. T. Fuller.

CHURCHLIKE
Church"like`, a.

Defn: Befitting a church or a churchman; becoming to a clergyman.
Shak.

CHURCHLINESS
Church"li*ness, n.

Defn: Regard for the church.

CHURCHLY
Church"ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or suitable for, the church; ecclesiastical.

CHURCHMAN
Church"man, n.; pl. Churchmen.

1. An ecclesiastic or clergyman.

2. An Episcopalian, or a member of the Established Church of England.
"A zealous churchman." Macaulay.

3. One was is attached to, or attends, church.

CHURCHMANLY
Church"man*ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or becoming, a churchman. Milman.

CHURCHMANSHIP
Church"man*ship, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being a churchman; attachment to the
church.

CHURCH MODES
Church" modes`. (Mus.)

Defn: The modes or scales used in ancient church music. See
Gregorian.

CHURCHSHIP
Church"ship, n.

Defn: State of being a church. South.

CHURCHWARDEN
Church"ward`en, n.

1. One of the officers (usually two) in an Episcopal church, whose
duties vary in different dioceses, but always include the provision
of what is necessary for the communion service.

2. A clay tobacco pipe, with a long tube. [Slang, Eng.]
There was a small wooden table placed in front of the smoldering
fire, with decanters, a jar of tobacco, and two long churchwardens.
W. Black.

CHURCHWARDENSHIP
Church"ward`en*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a churchwarden.

CHURCHY
Church"y, a.

Defn: Relating to a church; unduly fond of church forms. [Colloq.]

CHURCHYARD
Church"yard`, n.

Defn: The ground adjoining a church, in which the dead are buried; a
cemetery.
Like graves in the holy churchyard. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Burial place; burying ground; graveyard; necropolis; cemetery;
God's acre.

CHURL
Churl, n. Etym: [AS. ceorl a freeman of the lowest rank, man,
husband; akin to D. karel, kerel, G. kerl, Dan. & Sw. karl, Icel.
karl, and to the E. proper name Charles (orig., man, male), and perh.
to Skr. jara lover. Cf. Carl, Charles's Wain.]

1. A rustic; a countryman or laborer. "A peasant or churl." Spenser.
Your rank is all reversed; let men of cloth Bow to the stalwart
churls in overalls. Emerson.

2. A rough, surly, ill-bred man; a boor.
A churl's courtesy rarely comes, but either for gain or falsehood.
Sir P. Sidney.

3. A selfish miser; an illiberal person; a niggard.
Like to some rich churl hoarding up his pelf. Drayton.

CHURL
Churl, a.

Defn: Churlish; rough; selfish. [Obs.] Ford.

CHURLISH
Churl"ish, a.

1. Like a churl; rude; cross-grained; ungracious; surly; illiberal;
niggardly. "Churlish benefits." Ld. Burleigh.
Half mankind maintain a churlish strife. Cowper.

2. Wanting pliancy; unmanageable; unyielding; not easily wrought; as,
a churlish soil; the churlish and intractable nature of some
minerals. Boyle.

CHURLISHLY
Churl"ish*ly, adv.

Defn: In a churlish manner.

CHURLISHNESS
Churl"ish*ness, n.

Defn: Rudeness of manners or temper; lack of kindness or courtesy.

CHURLY
Churl"y, a.

Defn: Rude; churlish; violent. Longfellow.

CHURME; CHIRM
Churme, Chirm, n. Etym: [See Chirm.]

Defn: Clamor, or confused noise; buzzing. [Obs.]
The churme of a thousand taunts and reproaches. Bacon.

CHURN
Churn, n. Etym: [OE. chirne, cherne, AS. ceren, cyrin; akin to D.
karn, Dan. kierne. See Churn, v. t.]

Defn: A vessel in which milk or cream is stirred, beaten, or
otherwise agitated (as by a plunging or revolving dasher) in order to
separete the oily globules from the other parts, and obtain butter.

CHURN
Churn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Churned; p. pr. & vb. n. Churning.] Etym:
[OE. chernen, AS. cernan; akin to LG. karnen, G. kernen, D. karnen,
Dan. kierne, Sw. kärna, and also to E. corn, kernel, the meaning
coming from the idea of extracting the kernel or marrow. See Kernel.]

1. To stir, beat, or agitate, as milk or cream in a churn, in order
to make butter.

2. To shake or agitate with violence.
Churned in his teeth, the foamy venom rose. Addison.

CHURN
Churn, v. i.

Defn: To perform the operation of churning.

CHURNING
Churn"ing, n.

1. The act of one who churns.

2. The quantity of butter made at one operation.

CHURR
Churr, n. [Cf. Chirr.]

Defn: A vibrant or whirring noise such as that made by some insects,
as the cockchafer, or by some birds, as the nightjar, the partridge,
etc.

CHURR
Churr, v. i.  [imp. & p. p. Churred; p. pr. & vb. n. Churr"ing.]

Defn: To make a churr, as a cockchafer.

That's the churring of the nightjar.
Hall Caine.

CHURR
Churr, v. t.

Defn: To utter by churring.

CHURRUS
Chur"rus, n. Etym: [Hind. charas.]

Defn: A powerfully narcotic and intoxicating gum resin which exudes
from the flower heads, seeds, etc., of Indian hemp.

CHURRWORM
Churr"worm`, n. Etym: [AS. cyrran, cerran, to turn.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect that turns about nimbly; the mole cricket; -- called
also fan cricket. Johnson.

CHUSE
Chuse, v. t.

Defn: See Choose. [Obs.]

CHUTE
Chute, n. Etym: [F. chute, prop. a fall.]

1. A framework, trough, or tube, upon or through which objects are
made to slide from a higher to a lower level, or through which water
passes to a wheel.

2. See Shoot.

CHUTNEY; CHUTNEE
Chut"ney, Chut"nee, n. Etym: [Hind. chatni.]

Defn: A warm or spicy condiment or pickle made in India, compounded
of various vegetable substances, sweets, acids, etc.

CHYLACEOUS
Chy*la"ceous, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Possessed of the properties of chyle; consisting of chyle.

CHYLAQUEOUS
Chy*la"que*ous, a. Etym: [Chyle + aqueous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Consisting of chyle much diluted with water; -- said of a
liquid which forms the circulating fluid of some inferior animals.

CHYLE
Chyle, n. Etym: [NL. chylus, Gr. chyle; prob. akin to E. fuse to
melt.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A milky fluid containing the fatty matter of the food in a
state of emulsion, or fine mechanical division; formed from chyme by
the action of the intestinal juices. It is absorbed by the lacteals,
and conveyed into the blood by the thoracic duct.

CHYLIFACTION
Chyl`i*fac"tion, n. Etym: [Chyle + L. facere to make.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The act or process by which chyle is formed from food in animal
bodies; chylification, -- a digestive process.

CHYLIFACTIVE
Chyl`i*fac"tive, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Producing, or converting into, chyle; having the power to form
chyle.

CHYLIFEROUS
Chy*lif"er*ous, a.

Defn: [Chyle + -ferous: cf. F. chylifère.] (Physiol.) Transmitting or
conveying chyle; as, chyliferous vessels.

CHYLIFIC
Chy*lif"ic, a.

Defn: Chylifactive.

CHYLIFICATION
Chyl`i*fi*ca"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The formation of chyle. See Chylifaction.

CHYLIFICATORY
Chy*lif"i*ca*to*ry ( or ), a.

Defn: Chylifactive.

CHYLIFY
Chy"li*fy, v. t. & i. Etym: [Chyle + -ly.] (Physiol.)

Defn: To make chyle of; to be converted into chyle.

CHYLOPOETIC
Chy`lo*po*et"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. chylopoiei^n to make into juice,
chylo`s juice, chyle + poiei^n to make.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Concerned in the formation of chyle; as, the chylopoetic
organs.

CHYLOUS
Chy"lous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. chyleux.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Consisting of, or similar to, chyle.

CHYLURIA
Chy*lu"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition in which the urine contains chyle or fatty
matter, giving it a milky appearance.

CHYME
Chyme, n. Etym: [L. chymus chyle, Gr. chyme. See Chyle.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The pulpy mass of semi-digested food in the small intestines
just after its passage from the stomach. It is separated in the
intestines into chyle and excrement. See Chyle.

CHYMIC; CHYMIST; CHYMISTRY
Chym"ic, Chym"ist, Chym"is*try. [Obs.]

Defn: See Chemic, Chemist, Chemistry.

CHYMIFEROUS
Chy*mif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Chyme + -ferous.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Bearing or containing chyme.

CHYMIFICATION
Chym`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Chyme + L. facere to make: cf. F.
Chymification.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The conversion of food into chyme by the digestive action of
gastric juice.

CHYMIFY
Chym"i*fy, v. t. Etym: [Chyme + -fy: cf. F. chymifier.] (Physiol.)

Defn: To form into chyme.

CHYMOUS
Chy"mous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to chyme.

CHYOMETER
Chy*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Chem.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring liquids. It consists of a piston
moving in a tube in which is contained the liquid, the quantity
expelled being indicated by the graduation upon the piston rod.

CIBARIOUS
Ci*ba"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. cibaruus, fr. cibus food.]

Defn: Pertaining to food; edible. Johnson.

CIBATION
Ci*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. cibatio, fr. cibare to feed.]

1. The act of taking food.

2. (Alchemy)

Defn: The process or operation of feeding the contents of the
crucilbe with fresh material. B. Jonson.

CIBOL
Cib"ol, n. Etym: [F. ciboule, LL. cepula, cepola, dim. of L. cepa,
caepa, caepe, an onion. Cf. Chibbal, Cives.]

Defn: A perennial alliaceous plant (Allium fistulosum), sometimes
called Welsh onion. Its fistular leaves areused in cookery.

CIBORIUM
Ci*bo"ri*um, n.: pl. Ciboria. Etym: [LL., fr. L. ciborium a cup, fr.
Gr.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A canopy usually standing free and supported on four columns,
covering the high altar, or, very rarely, a secondary altar.

2. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The coffer or case in which the host is kept; the pyx.

CICADA
Ci*ca"da, n.; pl. E. Cicadas, L. Cicadæ. Etym: [L.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of the genus Cicada. They are large hemipterous
insects, with nearly transparent wings. The male makes a shrill sound
by pecular organs in the under side of the abdomen, consisting of a
pair of stretched membranes, acted upon by powerful muscles. A noted
American species (C. septendecim) is called the seventeen year
locust. Another common species is the dogday cicada.

CICALA
Ci*ca"la, n. Etym: [It., fr. L. cicada.]

Defn: A cicada. See Cicada. "At eve a dry cicala sung." Tennison.

CICATRICE
Cic"a*trice, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. cicatrix.]

Defn: A cicatrix.

CICATRICIAL
Cic`a*tri"cial, a. (Med.)

Defn: Relating to, or having the character of, a cicatrix. Dunglison.

CICATRICLE
Cic"a*tri`cle, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cicatricule, fr. L. cicatricula a
small scar, fr. cicatrix a scar.] (Biol.)

Defn: The germinating point in the embryo of a seed; the point in the
yolk of an egg at which development begins.

CICATRISIVE
Cic"a*tri`sive, a.

Defn: Tending to promote the formation of a cicatrix; good for
healing of a wound.

CICATRIX
Ci*ca"trix, n.; pl. Cicatrices. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: The pellicle which forms over a wound or breach of continuity
and completes the process of healing in the latter, and which
subsequently contracts and becomes white, forming the scar.

CICATRIZANT
Cic"a*tri`zant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cicatrisant, properly p. pr. of
cicatriser.] (Med.)

Defn: A medicine or application that promotes the healing of a sore
or wound, or the formation of a cicatrix.

CICATRIZATION
Cic`a*tri*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cicatrisation.] (Med.)

Defn: The process of forming a cicatrix, or the state of being
cicatrized.

CICATRIZE
Cic"a*trize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cicatrized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cicatrizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. cicatriser, fr. cicatrice, L. cicatrix,
scar.] (Med.)

Defn: To heal or induce the formation of a cicatrix in, as in wounded
or ulcerated flesh. Wiseman.

CICATRIZE
Cic"a*trize, v. i. (Med.)

Defn: To heal; to have a new skin.

CICATROSE
Cic"a*trose`, a.

Defn: Full of scars. Craig.

CICELY
Cic"e*ly, n. Etym: [L. seselis, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of several umbelliferous plants, of the genera Myrrhis,
Osmorrhiza, etc.

CICERO
Cic"e*ro, n. (Print.)

Defn: Pica type; -- so called by French printers.

CICERONE
Ci`ce*ro"ne, n.; pl. It. Ciceroni, E. Cicerones. Etym: [It., fr. L.
Cicero, the Roman orator. So called from the ordinary talkativeness
of such a guide.]

Defn: One who shows strangers the curiosities of a place; a guide.
Every glib and loquacious hireling who shows strangers about their
picture galleries, palaces, and ruins, is termed by them [the
Italians] a cicerone, or a Cicero. Trench.

CICERONIAN
Cic`e*ro"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Ciceronianus, fr. Cicero, the orator.]

Defn: Resembling Cicero in style or action; eloquent.

CICERONIANISM
Cic`e*ro"ni*an*ism, n.

Defn: Imitation of, or resemblance to, the style or action Cicero; a
Ciceronian phrase or expression. "Great study in Ciceronianism, the
chief abuse of Oxford." Sir P. Sidney.

CICHORACEOUS
Cich`o*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [See Chicory.]

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, a suborder of composite plants of
which the chicory (Cichorium) is the type.

CICH-PEA
Cich"-pea`, n.

Defn: The chick-pea. Holland.

CICISBEISM
Ci*cis"be*ism, n.

Defn: The state or conduct of a cicisbeo.

CICISBEO
Ci`cis*be"o, n.; pl. It. Cicisbei. Etym: [It.]

1. A professed admirer of a married woman; a dangler about women.

2. A knot of silk or ribbon attached to a fan, walking stick, etc.
[Obs.]

CICLATOUN
Cic"la*toun`, n. Etym: [Of. ciclaton.]

Defn: A costly cloth, of uncertain material, used in the Middle Ages.
[Obs.] [Written also checklaton, chekelatoun.]
His robe was of ciclatoun, That coste many a Jane. Chaucer.

CICURATE
Cic"u*rate, v. t. Etym: [L. cicurare to tame, fr. cicur tame.]

Defn: To tame. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CICURATION
Cic`u*ra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cicuration.]

Defn: The act of taming. [Obs.] Ray.

CICUTA
Ci*cu"ta, n. Etym: [L., the poison hemlock.] (Bot.)

Defn: a genus of poisonous umbelliferous plants, of which the water
hemlock or cowbane is best known.

Note: The name cicuta is sometimes erroneously applied to Conium
maculatum, or officinal hemlock.

CICUTOXIN
Cic`u*tox"in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The active principle of the water hemlock (Cicuta) extracted as
a poisonous gummy substance.

CID
Cid, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. Ar. seid lord.]

1. Chief or commander; in Spanish literature, a title of Ruy Diaz,
Count of Bivar, a champion of Christianity and of the old Spanish
royalty, in the 11th century.

2. An epic poem, which celebrates the exploits of the Spanish
national hero, Ruy Diaz.

CIDER
Ci"der, n. Etym: [F. cidre, OF. sidre, fr. L. sicera a kind of strong
drink, Gr. shakar to be intoxicated, shekar strong drink.]

Defn: The expressed juice of apples. It is used as a beverage, for
making vinegar, and for other purposes.

Note: Cider was formerly used to signify the juice of other fruits,
and other kinds of strong liquor, but was not applied to wine. Cider
brandy, a kind of brandy distilled from cider.
 -- Cider mill, a mill in which cider is made.
 -- Cider press, the press of a cider mill.

CIDERIST
Ci`der*ist, n.

Defn: A maker of cider. [Obs.] Mortimer.

CIDERKIN
Ci"der*kin, n. Etym: [Cider + -kin.]

Defn: A kind of weak cider made by steeping the refuse pomace in
water.
Ciderkin is made for common drinking, and supplies the place of small
beer. Mortimer.

CI-DEVANT
Ci`-de*vant", a. Etym: [F., hitherto, formerly.]

Defn: Former; previous; of times gone by; as, a cidevant governor.

CIERGE
Cierge, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. cera wax.]

Defn: A wax candle used in religous rites.

CIGAR
Ci*gar", n. Etym: [Sp. cigarro, orig., a kind of tobacco in the
island of Cuba: cf. F. cigare.]

Defn: A small roll of tobacco, used for smoking. Cigar fish (Zoöl.),
a fish (Decapterus punctatus), allied to the mackerel, found on the
coast of the Gulf of Mexico.

CIGARETTE
Cig`a*rette", n. Etym: [F. cigarette.]

Defn: A little cigar; a little fine tobacco rolled in paper for
smoking.

CILIA
Cil"i*a, n. pl. Cilium, the sing., is rarely used. Etym: [L. cilium
eyelid.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The eyelashes.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Small, generally microscopic, vibrating appendages lining
certain organs, as the air passages of the higher animals, and in the
lower animals often covering also the whole or a part of the
exterior. They are also found on some vegetable organisms. In the
Infusoria, and many larval forms, they are locomotive organs.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Hairlike processes, commonly marginal and forming a fringe like
the eyelash.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Small, vibratory, swimming organs, somewhat resembling true
cilia, as those of Ctenophora.

CILIARY
Cil"ia*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ciliaire.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the cilia, or eyelashes. Also applied to special
parts of the eye itself; as, the ciliary processes of the choroid
coat; the ciliary muscle, etc.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Pertaining to or connected with the cilia in animal or
vegetable organisms; as, ciliary motion.

CILIATA
Cil`i*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Cilia.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the orders of Infusoria, characterized by having cilia.
In some species the cilia cover the body generally, in others they
form a band around the mouth.

CILIATE; CILIATED
Cil"i*ate, Cil"i*a`ted, a.

Defn: Provided with, or surrounded by, cilia; as, a ciliate leaf;
endowed with vibratory motion; as, the ciliated epithelium of the
windpipe.

CILICE
Cil"ice, n. Etym: [F. See Cilicious.]

Defn: A kind of haircloth undergarment. Southey.

CILICIAN
Ci*li"cian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cilicia in Asia Minor.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Cilicia.

CILICIOUS
Ci*li"cious, a. Etym: [L. cilicium a covering, orig. made of Cilician
goat's hair, fr. Cilicious Cilician, fr. Cilicia, a province of Asia
Minor.]

Defn: Made, or consisting, of hair. [Obs.]
A Cilicious or sackcloth habit. Sir T. Browne.

CILIFORM; CILIIFORM
Cil"i*form, Cil"i*i*form`, a. Etym: [Cilium + -form]

Defn: Having the form of cilia; very fine or slender.

CILIOGRADE
Cil"i*o*grade, a. Etym: [Cilium + L. gradi to step: cf. F.
ciliograde.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Moving by means of cilia, or cilialike organs; as, the
ciliograde Medusæ.

CILIUM
Cil"i*um, n. Etym: [L., eyelid.]

Defn: See Cilia.

CILL
Cill, n.

Defn: See Sill., n. a foundation.

CILLOSIS
Cil*lo"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. cilium eyelid.] (Med.)

Defn: A spasmodic trembling of the upper eyelid.

CIMA
Ci"ma, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A kind of molding. See Cyma.

CIMAR
Ci*mar", n.

Defn: See Simar.

CIMBAL
Cim"bal, n. Etym: [It. ciambella.]

Defn: A kind of confectionery or cake. [Obs.] Nares.

CIMBIA
Cim"bi*a, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A fillet or band placed around the shaft of a column as if to
strengthen it. [Written also cimia.]

CIMBRIAN
Cim"bri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cimbri.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Cimbri. See Cimbric.

CIMBRIC
Cim"bric, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the Cimbri, an ancient tribe inhabiting Northern
Germany.
 -- n.

Defn: The language of the Cimbri.

CIMELIARCH
Ci*me"li*arch, n. Etym: [L. cimeliarcha, Gr.

Defn: A superintendent or keeper of a church's valuables; a
churchwarden. [Obs.] Bailey.

CIMETER
Cim"e*ter, n.

Defn: See Scimiter.

CIMEX
Ci"mex, n.; pl. Cimices. Etym: [L., a bug.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of hemipterous insects of which the bedbug is the best
known example. See Bedbug.

CIMIA
Cim"i*a, n. (Arch.)

Defn: See Cimbia.

CIMISS
Ci"miss, n. Etym: [L. cimex, -icis, a bug.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bedbug. [Obs.] Wright.

CIMMERIAN
Cim*me"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Cimmerius.] [Written also Kimmerian.]

1. Pertaining to the Cimmerii, a fabulous people, said to have lived,
in very ancient times, in profound and perpetual darkness.

2. Without any light; intensely dark.
In dark Cimmerian desert ever dwell. Milton.

CIMOLITE
Cim"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. Cimolus, an island of the Cyclades.] (Min.)

Defn: A soft, earthy, clayey mineral, of whitish or grayish color.

CINCH
Cinch, n. Etym: [Sp. cincha, fr. L. cingere to gird.]

1. A strong saddle girth, as of canvas. [West. U. S.]

2. A tight grip. [Colloq.]

CINCHONA
Cin*cho"na, n. Etym: [So named from the wife of Count Chinchon,
viceroy of Peru in the seventeenth century, who by its use was freed
from an intermittent fever, and after her return to Spain,
contributed to the general propagation of this remedy.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees growing naturally on the Andes in Peru and
adjacent countries, but now cultivated in the East Indies, producing
a medicinal bark of great value.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The bark of any species of cinchona containing three per cent.
or more of bitter febrifuge alkaloids; Peruvian bark; Jesuits' bark.

CINCHONACEOUS
Cin`cho*na"ceous, a.

Defn: Allied or pertaining to cinchona, or to the plants that produce
it.

CINCHONIC
Cin*chon"ic, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or obtained from, cinchona. Mayne.

CINCHONIDINE
Cin*chon"i*dine, n. Etym: [From Cinchona.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the quinine group of alkaloids, found especially in red
cinchona bark. It is a white crystalline substance, C19H22N2O, with a
bitter taste and qualities similar to, but weaker than, quinine; --
sometimes called also cinchonidia.

CINCHONINE
Cin"cho*nine, n. Etym: [From Cinchona: cf. F. cinchonine.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the quinine group of alkaloids isomeric with and
resembling cinchonidine; -- called also cinchonia.

CINCHONISM
Cin"cho*nism, n. Etym: [From Cinchona.] (Med.)

Defn: A condition produced by the excessive or long-continued use of
quinine, and marked by deafness, roaring in the ears, vertigo, etc.

CINCHONIZE
Cin"cho*nize, v. t.

Defn: To produce cinchonism in; to poison with quinine or with
cinchona.

CINCINNATI EPOCH
Cin`cin*na"ti ep"och. (Geol.)

Defn: An epoch at the close of the American lower Silurian system.
The rocks are well developed near Cincinnati, Ohio. The group
includes the Hudson River and Lorraine shales of New york.

CINCINNUS
Cin*cin"nus, n.; pl. -ni (#).  [Also cicinus, cicinnus.] [L., a curl
of hair.] (Bot.)

Defn: A form of monochasium in which the lateral branches arise
alternately on opposite sides of the false axis; -- called also
scorpioid cyme. --Cin*cin"nal (#), a.

CINCTURE
Cinc"ture, n. Etym: [L. cinctura, fr. cingere, cinctum, to gird.]

1. A belt, a girdle, or something worn round the body, -- as by an
ecclesiastic for confining the alb.

2. That which encompasses or incloses; an inclosure. "Within the
cincture of one wall." Bacon.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: The fillet, listel, or band next to the apophyge at the
extremity of the shaft of a column.

CINCTURED
Cinc"tured, n.

Defn: Having or wearing a cincture or gridle.

CINDER
Cin"der, n. Etym: [AS. sinder slag, dross; akin to Icel. sindr dross,
Sw. sinder, G. sinter, D. sintel; perh. influenced by F. cendre
ashes, fr. L. cinis. Cf. Sinter.]

1. Partly burned or vitrified coal, or other combustible, in which
fire is extinct.

2. A hot coal without flame; an ember. Swift.

3. A scale thrown off in forging metal.

4. The slag of a furnace, or scoriaceous lava from a volcano. Cinder
frame, a framework of wire in front of the tubes of a locomotive, to
arrest the escape of cinders.
 -- Cinder notch (Metal.), the opening in a blast furnace, through
which melted cinder flows out.

CINDERY
Cin"der*y, a.

Defn: Resembling, or composed of, cinders; full of cinders.

CINEFACTION
Cin`e*fac"tion, n. Etym: [LL. cinefactio: L. cinis ashes + facere to
make: cf. F. cinéfaction.]

Defn: Cineration; reduction to ashes. [Obs.]

CINEMATIC; CINEMATICAL
Cin`e*mat"ic, Cin`e*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: See Kinematic.

CINEMATICS
Cin`e*mat"ics, n. sing.

Defn: See Kinematics.

CINEMATOGRAPH
Cin`e*mat"o*graph, n. [Gr. , , motion + -graph.]

1.

Defn: A machine, combining magic lantern and kinetoscope features,
for projecting on a screen a series of pictures, moved rapidly (25 to
50 a second) and intermittently before an objective lens, and
producing by persistence of vision the illusion of continuous motion;
a moving-picture machine; also, any of several other machines or
devices producing moving pictorial effects. Other common names for
the cinematograph are animatograph, biograph, bioscope, electrograph,
electroscope, kinematograph, kinetoscope, veriscope, vitagraph,
vitascope, zoögyroscope, zoöpraxiscope, etc.

The cinematograph, invented by Edison in 1894, is the result of the
introduction of the flexible film into photography in place of glass.
Encyc. Brit.

2.  A camera for taking chronophotographs for exhibition by the
instrument described above.

CINEMATOGRAPHER
Cin`e*ma*tog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who exhibits moving pictures or who takes chronophotographs
by the cinematograph. -- Cin`e*mat`o*graph"ic (#), a. --
Cin`e*mat`o*graph"ic*al*ly (#), adv.

CINEMOGRAPH
Ci*ne"mo*graph, n. [Gr.  motion + -graph.]

Defn: An integrating anemometer.

CINERACEOUS
Cin`er*a"ceous, a. Etym: [L. cineraceus, fr. cinis ashes.]

Defn: Like ashes; ash-colored; cinerous.

CINERARIA
Cin`e*ra"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. LL. cinerarius pert. to ashes, fr.
cinis ashes. So called from the ash-colored down on the leaves.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan genus of free-flowering composite plants, mostly from
South Africa. Several species are cultivated for ornament.

CINERARY
Cin"er*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. cinerarius, fr. cinis ashes.]

Defn: Pertaining to ashes; containing ashes. Cinerary urns, vessels
used by the ancients to preserve the ashes of the dead when burned.

CINERATION
Cin`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. cinis ashes: cf. F. cinération.]

Defn: The reducing of anything to ashes by combustion; cinefaction.

CINEREOUS
Ci*ne"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. cinereus, fr. cinis ashes.]

Defn: Like ashes; ash-colored; grayish.

CINERESCENT
Cin`er*es"cent, a.

Defn: Somewhat cinereous; of a color somewhat resembling that of wood
ashes.

CINERITIOUS
Cin`er*i"tious, a. Etym: [L. cineritius, cinericius, fr. cinis
ashes.]

Defn: Like ashes; having the color of ashes, -- as the cortical
substance of the brain.

CINERULENT
Ci*ner"u*lent, a.

Defn: Full of ashes. [Obs.]

CINGALESE
Cin`ga*lese", n. sing. & pl. Etym: [Cf. F. Cingalais.]

Defn: A native or natives of Ceylon descended from its primitive
inhabitants; also (sing.),

Defn: the language of the Cingalese.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cingalese. [Written also Singhalese.]

Note: Ceylonese is applied to the inhabitants of the island in
general.

CINGLE
Cin"gle, n. Etym: [L. cingula, cingulum, fr. cingere to gird.]

Defn: A girth. [R.] See Surcingle.

CINGULUM
Cin"gu*lum, n. Etym: [L., a girdle.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A distinct girdle or band of color; a raised spiral line as seen
on certain univalve shells.
(b) The clitellus of earthworms.
(c) The base of the crown of a tooth.

CINNABAR
Cin"na*bar, n. Etym: [L. cinnabaris, Gr. qinbar, Hind. shangarf.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: Red sulphide of mercury, occurring in brilliant red crystals,
and also in red or brown amorphous masses. It is used in medicine.

2. The artificial red sulphide of mercury used as a pigment;
vermilion. Cinnabar Græcorum (. Etym: [L. Graecorum, gen. pl., of the
Greeks.] (Med.) Same as Dragon's blood.
 -- Green cinnabar, a green pigment consisting of the oxides of
cobalt and zinc subjected to the action of fire.
 -- Hepatic cinnabar (Min.), an impure cinnabar of a liver-brown
color and submetallic luster.

CINNABARINE
Cin"na*ba*rine, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cinabarin.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, cinnabar; consisting of cinnabar,
or containing it; as, cinnabarine sand.

CINNAMENE
Cin"na*mene, n. Etym: [From Cinnamic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Styrene (which was formerly called cinnamene because obtained
from cinnamic acid). See Styrene.

CINNAMIC
Cin*nam"ic, a. Etym: [From Cinnamon.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, cinnamon. Cinnamic acid
(Chem.), a white, crystalline, odorless substance.
C6H5.C2H2C2H2.CO2H, formerly obtained from storax and oil of
cinnamon, now made from certain benzene derivatives in large
quantities, and used for the artificial production of indigo.

CINNAMOMIC
Cin`na*mom"ic, a. Etym: [L. cinnamomum cinnamon.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Cinnamic.

CINNAMON
Cin"na*mon, n. Etym: [Heb. qinnamon; cf. Gr. cinnamomum, cinnamon.
The Heb. word itself seems to have been borrowed from some other
language; cf. Malay kaju manis sweet wood.]
(a) The inner bark of the shoots of Cinnamomum Zeylanicum, a tree
growing in Ceylon. It is aromatic, of a moderately pungent taste, and
is one of the best cordial, carminative, and restorative spices.
(b) Cassia. Cinnamon stone (Min.), a variety of garnet, of a cinnamon
or hyacinth red color, sometimes used in jewelry.
 -- Oil of cinnamon, a colorless aromatic oil obtained from cinnamon
and cassia, and consisting essentially of cinnamic aldehyde,
C6H5.C2H2.CHO.
 -- Wild cinnamon. See Canella.

CINNAMONE
Cin"na*mone, n. Etym: [Cinnamic + -one.]

Defn: A yellow crystalline substance, (C6H5.C2H2)2CO, the ketone of
cinnamic acid.

CINNAMYL
Cin"na*myl, n. Etym: [Cinnamic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The hypothetical radical, (C6H5.C2H2)2C, of cinnamic compounds.
[Formerly written also cinnamule.]

CINNOLINE
Cin"no*line, n. Etym: [Cinnamic + quinoline.]

Defn: A nitrogenous organic base, C8H6N2, analogous to quinoline,
obtained from certain complex diazo compounds.

CINQUE
Cinque, n. Etym: [F. cinq, fr. L. quinque five. See Five.]

Defn: Five; the number five in dice or cards.

CINQUECENTIST
Cin`que*cen"tist, n.

1. An Italian of the sixteenth century, esp. a poet or artist.

2.  A student or imitator of the art or literature of the
Cinquecento.

CINQUECENTO
Cin`que*cen"to, n. & a. Etym: [It., five hundred, abbrev. for fifteen
hundred. The Cinquecento style was so called because it arose after
the year 1500.]

Defn: The sixteenth century, when applied to Italian art or
literature; as, the sculpture of the Cinquecento; Cinquecento style.

CINQUEFOIL
Cinque"foil`, n. Etym: [Cinque five + foil, F. feuille leaf. See
Foil.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of several different species of the genus Potentilla;
-- also called five-finger, because of the resemblance of its leaves
to the fingers of the hand.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornamental foliation having five points or cups, used in
windows, panels, etc. Gwilt. Marsh cinquefoil, the Potentilla
palustris, a plant with purple flowers which grows in fresh-water
marshes.

CINQUE-PACE
Cinque"-pace`, n. Etym: [Cinque + pace.]

Defn: A lively dance (called also galliard), the steps of which were
regulated by the number five. [Obs.] Nares. Shak.

CINQUE PORTS
Cinque" Ports`. Etym: [Cinque + port.] (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: Five English ports, to which peculiar privileges were anciently
accorded; -- viz., Hastings, Romney, Hythe, Dover, and Sandwich;
afterwards increased by the addition of Winchelsea, Rye, and some
minor places. Baron of the Cinque Ports. See under Baron.

CINQUE-SPOTTED
Cinque"-spot`ted, a.

Defn: Five-spotted. [R.] Shak.

CINTER
Cin"ter, n. Etym: [F. cintre.] (Arch.)

Defn: See Center.

CINURA
Ci*nu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The group of Thysanura which includes Lepisma and allied forms;
the bristletails. See Bristletail, and Lepisma.

CION
Ci"on, n. Etym: [OF. cion. See Scion.]

Defn: See Scion.
The cion overruleth the stock; and the stock is but passive, and
giveth aliment, but no motion, to the graft. Bacon.

CIPHER
Ci"pher, n. Etym: [OF. cifre zero, F. Chiffre figure (cf. Sp.cifra,
LL. cifra), fr. Ar. çifrun, çafrun, empty, cipher, zero, fr. çafira
to be empty. Cf. Zero.]

1. (Arith.)

Defn: A character [0] which, standing by itself, expresses nothing,
but when placed at the right hand of a whole number, increases its
value tenfold.

2. One who, or that which, has no weight or influence.
Here he was a mere cipher. W. Irving.

3. A character in general, as a figure or letter. [Obs.]
This wisdom began to be written in ciphers and characters and letters
bearing the forms of creatures. Sir W. Raleigh.

4. A combination or interweaving of letters, as the initials of a
name; a device; a monogram; as, a painter's cipher, an engraver's
cipher, etc. The cut represents the initials N. W.

5. A private alphabet, system of characters, or other mode of
writing, contrived for the safe transmission of secrets; also, a
writing in such characters.
His father . . . engaged him when he was very young to write all his
letters to England in cipher. Bp. Burnet.
Cipher key, a key to assist in reading writings in cipher.

CIPHER
Ci"pher, a.

Defn: Of the nature of a cipher; of no weight or influence. "Twelve
cipher bishops." Milton.

CIPHER
Ci"pher, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ciphered; p. pr. & vb. n. Ciphering.]

Defn: To use figures in a mathematical process; to do sums in
arithmetic.
"T was certain he could write and cipher too. Goldsmith.

CIPHER
Ci"pher, v. t.

1. To write in occult characters.
His notes he ciphered with Greek characters. Hayward.

2. To get by ciphering; as, to cipher out the answer.

3. To decipher. [Obs.] Shak.

4. To designate by characters. [Obs.] Shak.

CIPHERER
Ci"pher*er, n.

Defn: One who ciphers.

CIPHERHOOD
Ci"pher*hood, n.

Defn: Nothingness. [R.] Goodwin.

CIPOLIN
Cip"o*lin, n. Etym: [It. cippollino, prop., a little onion, fr.
cipolla onion (cf. E. cibol). So called because its veins consist,
like onions, of different strata, one lying upon another.] (Min.)

Defn: A whitish marble, from Rome, containiing pale greenish zones.
It consists of calcium carbonate, with zones and cloudings of talc.

CIPPUS
Cip"pus, n.; pl. Cippi. Etym: [L., stake, post.]

Defn: A small, low pillar, square or round, commonly having an
inscription, used by the ancients for various purposes, as for
indicating the distances of places, for a landmark, for sepulchral
inscriptions, etc. Gwilt.

CIRC
Circ, n. Etym: [See Circus.]

Defn: An amphitheatrical circle for sports; a circus. [R.] T. Warton.

CIRCAR
Cir*car", n. Etym: [See Sircar.]

Defn: A district, or part of a province. See Sircar. [India]

CIRCASSIAN
Cir*cas"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Circassia, in Asia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Circassia.

CIRCEAN
Cir*ce"an, a. Etym: [L. Circaeus.]

Defn: Having the characteristics of Circe, daughter of Sol and
Perseis, a mythological enchantress, who first charmed her victims
and then changed them to the forms of beasts; pleasing, but noxious;
as, a Circean draught.

CIRCENSIAL; CIRCENSIAN
Cir*cen"sial, Cir*cen"sian, a. Etym: [L. Circensis, ludi Circenses,
the games in the Circus Maximus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or held in, the Circus, In Rome.
The pleasure of the Circensian shows. Holyday.

CIRCINAL
Cir"ci*nal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Circinate.

CIRCINATE
Cir"ci*nate, a. Etym: [L. circinatus, p. p. of circinare to make
round, fr. circinus a pair of compasses, from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Rolled together downward, the tip occupying the center; -- a
term used in reference to foliation or leafing, as in ferns. Gray.

CIRCINATE
Cir"ci*nate, v. t.

Defn: To make a circle around; to encompass. [Obs.] Bailey.

CIRCINATION
Cir`ci*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. circinatio circle.]

1. An orbicular motion. [Obs.] bailey.

2. A circle; a concentric layer. [Obs.] "The circinations and
spherical rounds of onions." Sir T. Browne.

CIRCLE
Cir"cle, n. Etym: [OE. cercle, F. cercle, fr. L. circulus (Whence
also AS. circul), dim. of circus circle, akin to Gr. Circus, Circum-
.]

1. A plane figure, bounded by a single curve line called its
circumference, every part of which is equally distant from a point
within it, called the center.

2. The line that bounds sush a figure; a circumference; a ring.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: An instrument of observation, the graduated limb of which
consists of an entire circle.

Note: When it is fixed to a wall in an observatory, it is called a
mural circle; when mounted with a telescope on an axis and in Y's, in
the plane of the meridian, a meridian or transit circle; when
involving the principle of reflection, like the sextant, a reflecting
circle; and when that of repeating an angle several times
continuously along the graduated limb, a repeating circle.

4. A round body; a sphere; an orb.
It is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth. Is. xi. 22.

5. Compass; circuit; inclosure.
In the circle of this forest. Shak.

6. A company assembled, or conceived to assemble, about a central
point of interest, or bound by a common tie; a class or division of
society; a coterie; a set.
As his name gradually became known, the circle of his acquaintance
widened. Macaulay.

7. A circular group of persons; a ring.

8. A series ending where it begins, and repeating itself.
Thus in a circle runs the peasant's pain. Dryden.

9. (Logic)

Defn: A form of argument in which two or more unproved statements are
used to prove each other; inconclusive reasoning.
That heavy bodies descend by gravity; and, again, that gravity is a
quality whereby a heavy body descends, is an impertinent circle and
teaches nothing. Glanvill.

10. Indirect form of words; circumlocution. [R.]
Has he given the lie, In circle, or oblique, or semicircle. J.
Fletcher.

11. A territorial division or district.

Note: The Circles of the Holy Roman Empire, ten in number, were those
principalities or provinces which had seats in the German Diet.
Azimuth circle. See under Azimuth.
 -- Circle of altitude (Astron.), a circle parallel to the horizon,
having its pole in the zenith; an almucantar.
 -- Circle of curvature. See Osculating circle of a curve (Below).
 -- Circle of declination. See under Declination.
 -- Circle of latitude. (a) (Astron.) A great circle perpendicular to
the plane of the ecliptic, passing through its poles. (b) (Spherical
Projection) A small circle of the sphere whose plane is perpendicular
to the axis.
 -- Circles of longitude, lesser circles parallel to the ecliptic,
diminishing as they recede from it.
 -- Circle of perpetual apparition, at any given place, the boundary
of that space around the elevated pole, within which the stars never
set. Its distance from the pole is equal to the latitude of the
place.
 -- Circle of perpetual occultation, at any given place, the boundary
of the space around the depressed pole, within which the stars never
rise.
 -- Circle of the sphere, a circle upon the surface of the sphere,
called a great circle when its plane passes through the center of the
sphere; in all other cases, a small circle.
 -- Diurnal circle. See under Diurnal.
 -- Dress circle, a gallery in a theater, generally the one
containing the prominent and more expensive seats.
 -- Druidical circles (Eng. Antiq.), a popular name for certain
ancient inclosures formed by rude stones circularly arranged, as at
Stonehenge, near Salisbury.
 -- Family circle, a gallery in a theater, usually one containing
inexpensive seats.
 -- Horary circles (Dialing), the lines on dials which show the
hours.
 -- Osculating circle of a curve (Geom.), the circle which touches
the curve at some point in the curve, and close to the point more
nearly coincides with the curve than any other circle. This circle is
used as a measure of the curvature of the curve at the point, and
hence is called circle of curvature.
 -- Pitch circle. See under Pitch.
 -- Vertical circle, an azimuth circle.
 -- Voltaic circle or circuit. See under Circuit.
 -- To square the circle. See under Square.

Syn.
 -- Ring; circlet; compass; circuit; inclosure.

CIRCLE
Cir"cle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circled; p. pr. & vb. n. Circling.]
Etym: [OE. cerclen, F. cercler, fr. L. circulare to make round. See
Circle, n., and cf. Circulate.]

1. To move around; to revolve around.
Other planets circle other suns. Pope.

2. To encompass, as by a circle; to surround; to inclose; to
encircle. Prior. Pope.
Their heads are circled with a short turban. Dampier.
So he lies, circled with evil. Coleridge.
To circle in, to confine; to hem in; to keep together; as, to circle
bodies in. Sir K. Digby.

CIRCLE
Cir"cle, v. i.

Defn: To move circularly; to form a circle; to circulate.
Thy name shall circle round the gaping through. Byron.

CIRCLED
Cir"cled, a.

Defn: Having the form of a circle; round. "Monthly changes in her
circled orb." Shak.

CIRCLER
Cir"cler, n.

Defn: A mean or inferior poet, perhaps from his habit of wandering
around as a stroller; an itinerant poet. Also, a name given to the
cyclic poets. See under Cyclic, a. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

CIRCLET
Cir"clet, n.

1. A little circle; esp., an ornament for the person, having the form
of a circle; that which encircles, as a ring, a bracelet, or a
headband.
Her fair locks in circlet be enrolled. Spenser.

2. A round body; an orb. Pope.
Fairest of stars . . . that crown'st the smiling morn With thy bright
circlet. Milton.

3. A circular piece of wood put under a dish at table. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

CIRCOCELE
Cir"co*cele, n.

Defn: See Cirsocele.

CIRCUIT
Cir"cuit, n. Etym: [F. circuit, fr. L. circuitus, fr. circuire or
circumire to go around; circum around + ire to go.]

1. The act of moving or revolving around, or as in a circle or orbit;
a revolution; as, the periodical circuit of the earth round the sun.
Watts.

2. The circumference of, or distance round, any space; the measure of
a line round an area.
The circuit or compass of Ireland is 1,800 miles. J. Stow.

3. That which encircles anything, as a ring or crown.
The golden circuit on my head. Shak.

4. The space inclosed within a circle, or within limits.
A circuit wide inclosed with goodliest trees. Milton.

5. A regular or appointed journeying from place to place in the
exercise of one's calling, as of a judge, or a preacher.

6.
(a) (Law) A certain division of a state or country, established by
law for a judge or judges to visit, for the administration of
justice. Bouvier. (b) (Methodist Church) A district in which an
itinerant preacher labors.

7. Circumlocution. [Obs.] "Thou hast used no circuit of words."
Huloet. Circuit court (Law), a court which sits successively in
different places in its circuit (see Circuit, 6). In the United
States, the federal circuit courts are commonly presided over by a
judge of the supreme court, or a special circuit judge, together with
the judge of the district court. They have jurisdiction within
statutory limits, both in law and equity, in matters of federal
cognizance. Some of the individual States also have circuit courts,
which have general statutory jurisdiction of the same class, in
matters of State cognizance.
 -- Circuit or Circuity of action (Law), a longer course of
proceedings than is necessary to attain the object in view.
 -- To make a circuit, to go around; to go a roundabout way.
 -- Voltaic or Galvanic circuit or circle, a continous electrical
communication between the two poles of a battery; an arrangement of
voltaic elements or couples with proper conductors, by which a
continuous current of electricity is established.

CIRCUIT
Cir"cuit, v. i.

Defn: To move in a circle; to go round; to circulate. [Obs.] J.
Philips.

CIRCUIT
Cir"cuit, v. t.

Defn: To travel around. [Obs.] "Having circuited the air." T. Warton.

CIRCUITEER
Cir`cuit*eer", n.

Defn: A circuiter. Pope.

CIRCUITER
Cir"cuit*er, n.

Defn: One who travels a circuit, as a circuit judge. [R.] R.
Whitlock.

CIRCUITION
Cir`cu*i"tion, n. Etym: [L. circuitio. See Circuit.]

Defn: The act of going round; circumlocution. [R.]

CIRCUITOUS
Cir*cu"i*tous, a. Etym: [LL. circuitosus.]

Defn: Going round in a circuit; roundabout; indirect; as, a
circuitous road; a circuitous manner of accompalishing an end.
 -- Cir*cu"i*tous*ly, adv.
 -- Cir*cu"i*tous*ness, n.

Syn.
 -- Tortuous; winding; sinuous; serpentine.

CIRCUITY
Cir*cu"i*ty, n.

Defn: A going round in a circle; a course not direct; a roundabout
way of proceeding.

CIRCULABLE
Cir"cu*la*ble, a.

Defn: That may be circulated.

CIRCULAR
Cir"cu*lar, a. Etym: [L. circularis, fr. circulus circle: cf. F.
circulaire. See Circle.]

1. In the form of, or bounded by, a circle; round.

2. repeating itself; ending in itself; reverting to the point of
beginning; hence, illogical; inconclusive; as, circular reasoning.

3. Adhering to a fixed circle of legends; cyclic; hence, mean;
inferior. See Cyclic poets, under Cyclic.
Had Virgil been a circular poet, and closely adhered to history, how
could the Romans have had Dido Dennis.

4. Addressed to a circle, or to a number of persons having a common
interest; circulated, or intended for circulation; as, a circular
letter.
A proclamation of Henry III., . . . doubtless circular throughout
England. Hallam.

5. Perfect; complete. [Obs.]
A man so absolute and circular In all those wished-for rarities that
may take A virgin captive. Massinger.
Circular are, any portion of the circumference of a circle.
 -- Circular cubics (Math.), curves of the third order which are
imagined to pass through the two circular points at infinity.
 -- Circular functions. (Math.) See under Function.
 -- Circular instruments, mathematical instruments employed for
measuring angles, in which the graduation extends round the whole
circumference of a circle, or 360º.
 -- Circular lines, straight lines pertaining to the circle, as
sines, tangents, secants, etc.
 -- Circular note or letter. (a) (Com.) See under Credit. (b)
(Diplomacy) A letter addressed in identical terms to a number of
persons.
 -- Circular numbers (Arith.), those whose powers terminate in the
same digits as the roots themselves; as 5 and 6, whose squares are 25
and 36. Bailey. Barlow.
 -- Circular points at infinity (Geom.), two imaginary points at
infinite distance through which every circle in the plane is, in the
theory of curves, imagined to pass.
 -- Circular polarization. (Min.) See under Polarization.
 -- Circular or Globular sailing (Naut.), the method of sailing by
the arc of a great circle.
 -- Circular saw. See under Saw.

CIRCULAR
Cir"cu*lar, n. Etym: [Cf. (for sense 1) F. circulaire, lettre
circulaire. See Circular, a.]

1. A circular letter, or paper, usually printed, copies of which are
addressed or given to various persons; as, a business circular.

2. A sleeveless cloak, cut in circular form.

CIRCULARISE
circularise v.

1. to canvass by distributing letters.
Syn. -- circularize.
[WordNet 1.5]

2. to distribute circulars to.
Syn. -- circularize.
[WordNet 1.5]

3. to to pass around, as information.
Syn. -- circulate, circularize, distribute, disseminate, propagate,
broadcast, spread, diffuse, disperse.
[WordNet 1.5]

CIRCULARITY
Cir`cu*lar"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. circularitas.]

Defn: The quality or state of being circular; a circular form.

CIRCULARLY
Cir"cu*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In a circular manner.

CIRCULARY
Cir"cu*la*ry, a.

Defn: Circular; illogical. [Obs. & .] "Cross and circulary speeches."
Hooker.

CIRCULATE
Cir"cu*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ciorculated; P. pr. & vb. n.
Circulating.] Etym: [L. circulatus, p. p. of circulare, v. t., to
surround, make round, circulari, v. i., to gather into a circle. See
Circle.]

1. To move in a circle or circuitously; to move round and return to
the same point; as, the blood circulates in the body. Boyle.

2. To pass from place to place, from person to person, or from hand
to hand; to be diffused; as, money circulates; a story circulates.

Circulating decimal. See Decimal.
 -- Circulating library, a library whose books are loaned to the
public, usually at certain fixed rates.
 -- Circulating medium. See Medium.

CIRCULATE
Cir"cu*late, v. t.

Defn: To cause to pass from place to place, or from person to person;
to spread; as, to circulate a report; to circulate bills of credit.
Circulating pump. See under Pump.

Syn.
 -- To spread; diffuse; propagate; disseminate.

CIRCULATION
Cir`cu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. circulatio: cf. F. circulation.]

1. The act of moving in a circle, or in a course which brings the
moving body to the place where its motion began.
This continual circulation of human things. Swift.

2. The act of passing from place to place or person to person; free
diffusion; transmission.
The true doctrines of astronomy appear to have had some popular
circulation. Whewell.

3. Currency; circulating coin; notes, bills, etc., current for coin.

4. The extent to which anything circulates or is circulated; the
measure of diffusion; as, the circulation of a newspaper.

5. (Physiol.)

Defn: The movement of the blood in the blood-vascular system, by
which it is brought into close relations with almost every living
elementary constituent. Also, the movement of the sap in the vessels
and tissues of plants.

CIRCULATIVE
Cir"cu*la*tive, a.

Defn: Promoting circulation; circulating. [R.] Coleridge.

CIRCULATOR
Cir"cu*la`tor, n. Etym: [Cf. L. circulator a peddler.]

Defn: One who, or that which, circulates.

CIRCULATORIOUS
Cir`cu*la*to"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Travelling from house to house or from town to town; itinerant.
[Obs.] "Circulatorious jugglers." Barrow.

CIRCULATORY
Cir"cu*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. circulatorius pert. to a mountebank:
cf. F. circulatoire.]

1. Circular; as, a circulatory letter. Johnson.

2. Circulating, or going round. T. Warton.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: Subserving the purposes of circulation; as, circulatory organs;
of or pertaining to the organs of circulation; as, circulatory
diseases.

CIRCULATORY
Cir"cu*la*to*ry, n.

Defn: A chemical vessel consisting of two portions unequally exposed
to the heat of the fire, and with connecting pipes or passages,
through which the fluid rises from the overheated portion, and
descends from the relatively colder, maintaining a circulation.

CIRCULET
Cir"cu*let, n.

Defn: A circlet. [Obs.] Spenser.

CIRCULINE
Cir"cu*line, a.

Defn: Proceeding in a circle; circular. [Obs.] "With motion
circuline". Dr. H. More.

CIRCUM-
Cir"cum-. Etym: [Akin to circle, circus.]

Defn: A Latin preposition, used as a prefix in many English words,
and signifying around or about.

CIRCUMAGITATE
Cir`cum*ag"i*tate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. circum + agitate.]

Defn: To agitate on all sides. Jer. Taylor.

CIRCUMAMBAGE
Cir`cum*am"bage, n. Etym: [Pref. circum- + ambage, obs. sing. of
ambages.]

Defn: A roundabout or indirect course; indirectness. [Obs.] S.
Richardson.

CIRCUMAMBIENCY
Cir`cum*am"bi*en*cy, n.

Defn: The act of surrounding or encompassing. Sir T. Browne.

CIRCUMAMBIENT
Cir`cum*am"bi*ent, a. Etym: [Pref. circum- + ambient.]

Defn: Surrounding; inclosing or being on all sides; encompassing.
"The circumambient heaven." J. Armstrong.

CIRCUMAMBULATE
Cir`cum*am"bu*late, v. t. Etym: [L. circumambulatus, p. p. of
circumambulare to walk around; circum + ambulare. See Ambulate.]

Defn: To walk round about.
 -- Cir`cum*am`bu*la"tion, n.

CIRCUMBENDIBUS
Cir`cum*bend"i*bus, n.

Defn: A roundabout or indirect way. [Jocular] Goldsmith.

CIRCUMCENTER
Cir`cum*cen"ter, n. (Geom.)

Defn: The center of a circle that circumscribes a triangle.

CIRCUMCISE
Cir"cum*cise, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circumcised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Circumcising.] Etym: [L. circumcisus, p. p. of circumcidere to cut
around, to circumcise; circum + caedere to cut; akin to E. cæsura,
homicide, concise, and prob. to shed, v. t.]

1. To cut off the prepuce of foreskin of, in the case of males, and
the internal labia of, in the case of females.

2. (Script.)

Defn: To purify spiritually.

CIRCUMCISER
Cir"cum*ci`ser, n.

Defn: One who performs circumcision. Milton.

CIRCUMCISION
Cir`cum*cision, n. Etym: [L. circumcisio.]

1. The act of cutting off the prepuce or foreskin of males, or the
internal labia of females.

Note: The circumcision of males is practiced as a religious rite by
the Jews, Mohammedans, etc.

2. (Script.)
(a) The Jews, as a circumcised people.
(b) Rejection of the sins of the flesh; spiritual purification, and
acceptance of the Christian faith.

CIRCUMCLUSION
Cir`cum*clu"sion, n. Etym: [L. circumcludere, -clusum, to inclose.]

Defn: Act of inclosing on all sides. [R.]

CIRCUMCURSATION
Cir`cum*cur*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumcursare, -satum, to run round
about.]

Defn: The act of running about; also, rambling language. [Obs.]
Barrow.

CIRCUMDENUDATION
Cir`cum*den`u*da"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. circum- + denudation.] (Geol.)

Defn: Denudation around or in the neighborhood of an object. Hills of
circumdenudation, hills which have been produced by surface erosion;
the elevations which have been left, after denudation of a mass of
high ground. Jukes.

CIRCUMDUCE
Cir`cum*duce", v. t. Etym: [See Circumduct.] (Scots Law)

Defn: To declare elapsed, as the time allowed for introducing
evidence. Sir W. Scott.

CIRCUMDUCT
Cir`cum*duct", v. t. Etym: [L. circumductus, p. p. of circumducere to
lead around; circum + ducere to lead.]

1. To lead about; to lead astray. [R.]

2. (Law)

Defn: To contravene; to nullify; as, to circumduct acts of
judicature. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

CIRCUMDUCTION
Cir`cum*duc"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumductio.]

1. A leading about; circumlocution. [R.] Hooker.

2. An annulling; cancellation. [R.] Ayliffe.

3. (Phisiol.)

Defn: The rotation of a limb round an imaginary axis, so as to
describe a concial surface.

CIRCUMESOPHAGAL
Cir`cum*e*soph"a*gal, a. Etym: [Pref. circum + esophagal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Surrounding the esophagus; -- in Zool. said of the nerve
commissures and ganglia of arthropods and mollusks.

CIRCUMESOPHAGEAL
Cir`cum*e`so*phag"e*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Circumesophagal.

CIRCUMFER
Cir"cum*fer, v. t. Etym: [L. circumferre; circum + ferre to bear. See
lst Bear.]

Defn: To bear or carry round. [Obs.] Bacon.

CIRCUMFERENCE
Cir*cum"fer*ence, n. Etym: [L. circumferentia.]

1. The line that goes round or encompasses a circular figure; a
periphery. Millon.

2. A circle; anything circular.
His ponderous shield . . . Behind him cast. The broad circumference
Hung on his shoulders like the moon. Milton.

3. The external surface of a sphere, or of any orbicular body.

CIRCUMFERENCE
Cir*cum"fer*ence, v. t.

Defn: To include in a circular space; to bound. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CIRCUMFERENTIAL
Cir*cum`fer*en"tial, a. Etym: [LL. circumferentialis.]

Defn: Pertaining to the circumference; encompassing; encircling;
circuitous. Parkhurst.

CIRCUMFERENTIALLY
Cir*cum`fer*en"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to surround or encircle.

CIRCUMFERENTOR
Cir*cum`fer*en"tor, n. Etym: [See Circumfer.]

1. A surveying instrument, for taking horizontal angles and bearings;
a surveyor's compass. It consists of a compass whose needle plays
over a circle graduated to 360º, and of a horizontal brass bar at the
ends of which are standards with narrow slits for sighting, supported
on a tripod by a ball and socket joint.

2. A graduated wheel for measuring tires; a tire circle.

CIRCUMFLANT
Cir"cum*flant, a. Etym: [L. circumflans, p. pr. of circumflare.]

Defn: Blowing around. [Obs.] Evelyn.

CIRCUMFLECT
Cir"cum*flect, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circumflected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Circumflecting.] Etym: [L. circumflectere. See Circumflex.]

1. To bend around.

2. To mark with the circumflex accent, as a vowel. [R.]

CIRCUMFLECTION
Cir`cum*flec"tion, n.

Defn: See Circumflexion.

CIRCUMFLEX
Cir"cum*flex, n. Etym: [L. circumflexus a bending round, fr.
circumflectere, circumflexum, to bend or turn about; circum +
flectere to bend. See Flexible.]

1. A wave of the voice embracing both a rise and fall or a fall and a
rise on the same a syllable. Walker.

2. A character, or accent, denoting in Greek a rise and of the voice
on the same long syllable, marked thus [~ or Accent, n., 2.

CIRCUMFLEX
Cir"cum*flex, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circumflexed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Circumflexing.]

Defn: To mark or pronounce with a circumflex. Walker.

CIRCUMFLEX
Cir"cum*flex, a. Etym: [Cf. L. circumflexus, p. p.]

1. Moving or turning round; circuitous. [R.] Swift.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Curved circularly; -- applied to several arteries of the hip
and thigh, to arteries, veins, and a nerve of the shoulder, and to
other parts.

CIRCUMFLEXION
Cir`cum*flex"ion, n.

1. The act of bending, or causing to assume a curved form.

2. A winding about; a turning; a circuity; a fold.

CIRCUMFLUENCE
Cir*cum"flu*ence, n.

Defn: A flowing round on all sides; an inclosing with a fluid.

CIRCUMFLUENT; CIRCUMFLUOUS
Cir*cum"flu*ent, Cir*cum"flu*ous, a. Etym: [L. circumfluere, p. pr.
of circumfluere; circum + fluere to flow; also L. circumfluus.]

Defn: Flowing round; surrounding in the manner of a fluid. "The deep,
circumfluent waves." Pope.

CIRCUMFORANEAN; CIRCUMFORANEOUS
Cir`cum*fo*ra"ne*an, Cir`cum*fo*ra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L.
circumforaneus found in markets; circum + forum a market place.]

Defn: Going about or abroad; walking or wandering from house to
house. Addison.

CIRCUMFULGENT
Cir`cum*ful"gent, a. Etym: [Pref. circum- + fulgent.]

Defn: Shining around or about.

CIRCUMFUSE
Cir`cum*fuse", v. t. Etym: [L. circumfusus, p. p. of circumfundere to
pour around; circum + fundere to pour.]

Defn: To pour round; to spread round.
His army circumfused on either wing. Milton.

CIRCUMFUSILE
Cir`cum*fu"sile, a. Etym: [Pref. circum- + L. fusilis fusil, a.]

Defn: Capable of being poured or spread round. "Circumfusile gold."
Pope.

CIRCUMFUSION
Cir`cum*fu"sion, n. Etym: [L. circumfusio.]

Defn: The act of pouring or spreading round; the state of being
spread round. Swift.

CIRCUMGESTATION
Cir`cum*ges*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumgestare to carry around;
circum + gestare to carry.]

Defn: The act or process of carrying about. [Obs.]
Circumgestation of the eucharist to be adored. Jer. Taylor.

CIRCUMGYRATE
Cir`cum*gy"rate, v. t. & i. Etym: [Pref. circum- + gyrate.]

Defn: To roll or turn round; to cause to perform a rotary or circular
motion. Ray.

CIRCUMGYRATION
Cir`cum*gy*ra"tion, n.

Defn: The act of turning, rolling, or whirling round.
A certain turbulent and irregular circumgyration. Holland.

CIRCUMGYRATORY
Cir`cum*gy"ra*to*ry, a.

Defn: Moving in a circle; turning round. Hawthorne.

CIRCUMGYRE
Cir`cum*gyre", v. i.

Defn: To circumgyrate. [Obs.]

CIRCUMINCESSION
Cir`cum*in*ces"sion, n. Etym: [Pref. circum- + L. incedere, incessum,
to walk.] (Theol.)

Defn: The reciprocal existence in each other of the three persons of
the Trinity.

CIRCUMJACENCE
Cir`cum*ja"cence, n.

Defn: Condition of being circumjacent, or of bordering ou every side.

CIRCUMJACENT
Cir`cum*ja"cent, a. Etym: [L. circumjacens, p. pr. of circumjacere;
circum + jac to lie.]

Defn: Lying round; borderong on every side. T. Fuller.

CIRCUMJOVIAL
Cir`cum*jo"vi*al, n. Etym: [Pref. circum- + L. Jupiter, gen. Jovis,
Jove.]

Defn: One of the moons or satellites of the planet Jupiter. [Obs.]
Derham.

CIRCUMLITTORAL
Cir`cum*lit"to*ral, a. Etym: [Pref. circum- + littus, littoris,
shore; preferable form, litus, litoria.]

Defn: Adjointing the shore.

CIRCUMLOCUTION
Cir`cum*lo*cu"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumlocutio, fr. circumloqui, -
locutus, to make use of circumlocution; circum + loqui to speak. See
Loquacious.]

Defn: The use of many words to express an idea that might be
expressed by few; indirect or roundabout language; a periphrese.
the plain Billingagate way of calling names . . . would save
abundance of time lost by circumlocution. Swift.
Circumlocution office, a term of riducle for a governmental office
where business is delayed by passing through the hands of different
officials.

CIRCUMLOCUTIONAL
Cir`cum*lo*cu"tion*al, a.

Defn: Relating to, or consisting of, circumlocutions; periphrastic;
circuitous.

CIRCUMLOCUTORY
Cir`cum*loc"u*to*ry, a.

Defn: Characterised by circumlocution; periphrastic. Shenstone.
The officials set to work in regular circumlocutory order. Chambers's
Journal.

CIRCUMMERIDIAN
Cir`cum*me*rid"i*an, a. Etym: [Pref. circum- + meridian.]

Defn: About, or near, the meridian.

CIRCUMMURE
Cir`cum*mure", v. t. Etym: [Pref. circum- + mure, v. t.]

Defn: To encompass with a wall. Shak.

CIRCUMNAVIGABLE
Cir`cum*nav"i*ga*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being sailed round. Ray.

CIRCUMNAVIGATE
Cir`cum*nav"i*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circumnavigated; p. pr. & vb.
n. Circumnavigating.] Etym: [L. circumnavigatus, p. p. of
circumnavigare to sail round; circum + navigare to navigate.]

Defn: To sail completely round.
Having circumnavigated the whole earth. T. Fuller.

CIRCUMNAVIGATION
Cir`cum*nav`i*ga"tion, n.

Defn: The act of circumnavigating, or sailing round. Arbuthnot.

CIRCUMNAVIGATOR
Cir`cum*nav"iga`tor, n.

Defn: One who sails round. W. Guthrie.

CIRCUMNUTATE
Cir`cum*nu"tate, v. i. Etym: [Pref. circum- + nutate.]

Defn: To pass through the stages of circumnutation.

CIRCUMNUTATION
Cir`cum*nu*ta"tion, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The successive bowing or bending in different directions of the
growing tip of the stems of many plants, especially seen in climbing
plants.

CIRCUMPOLAR
Cir`cum*po"lar, a. Etym: [Pref. circum- + polar.]

Defn: About the pole; -- applied to stars that revolve around the
pole without setting; as, circumpolar stars.

CIRCUMPOSITION
Cir`cum*po*si"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumpositio, fr. circumponere, -
positium, to place around.]

Defn: The act of placing in a circle, or round about, or the state of
being so placed. Evelyn.

CIRCUMROTARY; CIRCUMROTATORY
Cir`cum*ro"tary, Cir`cum*ro"ta*to*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. circum- +
rotary, rotatory.]

Defn: turning, rolling, or whirling round.

CIRCUMROTATE
Cir`cum*ro"tate, v. t. & i. Etym: [L. circumrotare; circum + rotare
to turn round.]

Defn: To rotate about. [R.]

CIRCUMROTATION
Cir`cum*ro*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of rolling or revolving round, as a wheel;
circumvolution; the state of being whirled round. J. Gregory.

CIRCUMSCISSILE
Cir`cum*scis"sile, a. Etym: [Pref. circum- + scissle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Dehiscing or opening by a transverse fissure extending around
(a capsule or pod). See Illust. of Pyxidium.

CIRCUMSCRIBABLE
Cir`cum*scrib"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being circumscribed.

CIRCUMSCRIBE
Cir`cum*scribe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circumscribed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Circumscribing.] Etym: [L. circumscribere, -scriptum; circum +
scribere to write, draw. See Soribe.]

1. to write or engare around. [R.]
Thereon is circumscribed this epitaph. Ashmole.

2. To inclose within a certain limit; to hem in; to surround; to
bound; to confine; to restrain.
To circumscribe royal power. Bancroft.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: To draw a line around si as to touch at certain points without
cutting. See Inscribe, 5.

Syn.
 -- To bound; limit; restrict; confine; abridge; restrain; environ;
encircle; inclose; encompass.

CIRCUMSCRIBER
Cir`cum*scrib"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, circumscribes.

CIRCUMSCRIPTIBLE
Cir`cum*scrip"ti*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being circumscribed or limited by bounds.

CIRCUMSCRIPTION
Cir`cum*scrip"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumscriptio. See Circumscribe.]

1. An inscription written around anything. [R.] Ashmole.

2. The exterior line which determines the form or magnitude of a
body; outline; periphery. Ray.

3. The act of limiting, or the state of being limited, by conditions
or restraints; bound; confinement; limit.
The circumscriptions of terrestrial nature. Johnson.
I would not my unhoused, free condition Put into circumscription and
confine. Shak.

CIRCUMSCRIPTIVE
Cir`cum*scrip"tive, a.

Defn: Circumscribing or tending to circumscribe; marcing the limits
or form of.

CIRCUMSCRIPTIVELY
Cir`cum*scrip"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a limited manner.

CIRCUMSCRIPTLY
Cir"cum*script`ly, adv.

Defn: In a literal, limited, or narrow manner. [R.] Milton.

CIRCUMSPECT
Cir"cum*spect, a. Etym: [L. circumspectus, p. p. of circumspicere to
look about one's self, to observe; circum + spicere, specere, to
look. See Spy.]

Defn: Attentive to all the circustances of a case or the probable
consequences of an action; cautious; prudent; wary.

Syn.
 -- See Cautious.

CIRCUMSPECTION
Cir`cum*spec"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumspectio.]

Defn: Attention to all the facts and circumstances of a case;
caution; watchfulness.
With silent circumspection, unespied. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Caution; prudence; watchfulness; deliberation; thoughtfulness;
wariness; forecast.

CIRCUMSPECTIVE
Cir`cum*spec"tive, a.

Defn: Looking around everi way; cautious; careful of consequences;
watchful of danger. "Circumspective eyes." Pope.

CIRCUMSPECTIVELY
Cir`cum*spec"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: Circumspectly.

CIRCUMSPECTLY
Cir"cum*spect"ly, adv.

Defn: In a circumspect manner; cautiously; warily.

CIRCUMSPECTNESS
Cir"cum*spect"ness, n.

Defn: Vigilance un guarding against evil from every quarter; caution.
[Travel] forces circumspectness on those abroad, who at home are
nursed in security. Sir H. Wotton.

CIRCUMSTANCE
Cir"cum*stance, n. Etym: [L. circumstantia, fr. circumstans, -antis,
p. pr. of circumstare to stand around; circum + stare to stand. See
Stand.]

1. That which attends, or relates to, or in some way affects, a fact
or event; an attendant thing or state of things.
The circumstances are well known in the country where they happened.
W. Irving.

2. An event; a fact; a particular incident.
The sculptor had in his thoughts the conqoeror weeping for new
worlds, or the like circumstances in histery. Addison.

3. Circumlocution; detail. [Obs.]
So without more circumstance at all I hold it fit that shake hands
and part. Shak.

4. pl.

Defn: Condition in regard to worldly estate; state of property;
situation; surroundings.
When men are easy in their circumstances, they are naturally enemies
to innovations. Addison.
Not a circumstance, of no account. [Colloq.] -- Under the
circumstances, taking all things into consideration.

Syn.
 -- Event; occurrence; incident; situation; condition; position;
fact; detail; item. See Event.

CIRCUMSTANCE
Cir"cum*stance, v. t.

Defn: To place in a particular situation; to suppy relative
incidents.
The poet took the matters of fact as they came down to him and
circumstanced them, after his own manner. Addison.

CIRCUMSTANCED
Cir"cum*stanced, p. a.

1. Placed in a particular position or condition; situated.
The proposition is, that two bodies so circumstanced will balance
each other. Whewell.

2. Governed by events or circumstances. [Poetic & R.] "I must be
circumstanced." Shak.

CIRCUMSTANT
Cir"cum*stant, a. Etym: [L. circumstans. See Circumstance.]

Defn: Standing or placed around; surrounding. [R.] "Circumstant
bodies." Sir K. Digby.

CIRCUMSTANTIABLE
Cir`cum*stan"tia*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being circumstantiated. [Obs.] Jer Taylor.

CIRCUMSTANTIAL
Cir`cum*stan"tial, a. Etym: [Cf. F. circonstanciel.]

1. Consisting in, or pertaining to, circumstances or particular
incidents.
The usual character of human testimony is substantial truth under
circumstantial variety. Paley.

2. Incidental; relating to, but not essential.
We must therefore distinguish between the essentials in religious
worship . . . and what is merely circumstantial. Sharp.

3. Abounding with circumstances; detailing or exhibiting all the
circumstances; minute; particular.
Tedious and circumstantial recitals. Prior.
Circumstantial evidence (Law), evidence obtained from circumstances,
which necessarily or usually attend facts of a particular nature,
from which arises presumption. According to some authorities
circumstantial is distinguished from positive evidence in that the
latter is the testimony of eyewitnesses to a fact or the admission of
a party; but the prevalent opinion now is that all such testimony is
dependent on circumstances for its support. All testimony is more or
less circumstantial. Wharton.

Syn.
 -- See Minute.

CIRCUMSTANTIAL
Cir`cum*stan"tial, n.

Defn: Something incidental to the main subject, but of less
importance; opposed to an essential; -- generally in the plural; as,
the circumstantials of religion. Addison.

CIRCUMSTANTIALITY
Cir`cum*stan`ti*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state, characteristic, or quality of being circumstantial;
particularity or minuteness of detail. "I will endeavor to describe
with sufficient circumstantiality." De Quincey.

CIRCUMSTANTIALLY
Cir`cum*stan"tial*ly, adv.

1. In respect to circumstances; not essentially; accidentally.
Of the fancy and intellect, the powers are only circumstantially
different. Glanvill.

2. In every circumstance or particular; minutely.
To set down somewhat circumstantially, not only the events, but the
manner of my trials. Boyle.

CIRCUMSTANTIATE
Cir`cum*stan"ti*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circumstantiated; p. pr. &
vb. n. Circumstantiating.] Etym: [See Circumstantiating (

1. To place in particular circumstances; to invest with particular
accidents or adjuncts. [R.]
If the act were otherwise circumstantiated, it might will that freely
which now it wills reluctantly. Bramhall.

2. To prove or confirm by circumstances; to entr into details
concerning.
Neither will time permint to circumstantiate these particulars, which
I have only touched in the general. State Trials (1661).

CIRCUMTERRANEOUS
Cir`cum*ter*ra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. circum- + L. terra earth.]

Defn: Being or dwelling around the earth. "Circumterraneous demouns."
H. Hallywell.

CIRCUMUNDULATE
Cir`cum*un"du*late, v. t. Etym: [Pref. circum- + undulate.]

Defn: To flow round, as waves. [R.]

CIRCUMVALLATE
Cir`cum*val"late, v. t. Etym: [L. circumvallatus, p. p. of
circumvallare to surround with a wall; circum + vallare to wall, fr.
vallum rampart.]

Defn: To surround with a rampart or wall. Johnson.

CIRCUMVALLATE
Cir`cum*val"late, a.

1. Surrounded with a wall; inclosed with a rampart.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Surrounded by a ridle or elevation; as, the circumvallate
papillæ, near the base of the tongue.

CIRCUMVALLATION
Cir`cum*val*la"tion, n. (Mil.)
(a) The act of surrounding with a wall or rampart.
(b) A line of field works made around a besieged place and the
besieging army, to protect the camp of the besiegers against the
attack of an enemy from without.

CIRCUMVECTION
Cir`cum*vec"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumvectio; circum + vehere to
carry.]

Defn: The act of carrying anything around, or the state of being so
carried.

CIRCUMVENT
Cir`cum*vent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circumvented; p. pr. vb. n.
Circumventing.] Etym: [L. circumventis, p. p. of circumvenire, to
come around, encompass, decieve; circum + venire to come, akin to E.
come.]

Defn: To gain advantage over by arts, stratagem, or deception; to
decieve; to delude; to get around.
I circumvented whom I could not gain. Dryden.

CIRCUMVENTION
Cir`cum*ven"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumventio.]

Defn: The act of prevailing over another by arts, address, or fraud;
deception; fraud; imposture; delusion.
A school in which he learns sly circumvention. Cowper.

CIRCUMVENTIVE
Cir`cum*vent"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to circumvent; deceiving by artifices; deluding.

CIRCUMVENTOR
Cir`cum*vent"or, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who circumvents; one who gains his purpose by cunning.

CIRCUMVEST
Cir`cum*vest", v. t. Etym: [L. circumvestire; circum + vestire to
clothe.]

Defn: To cover round, as woth a garment; to invest. [Obs.]
Circumvested with much prejudice. Sir H. Wotton.

CIRCUMVOLANT
Cir*cum"vo*lant, a. Etym: [L. circumvolans, p. pr. See
Circumvolation.]

Defn: Flying around.
The circumvolant troubles of humanity. G. Macdonald.

CIRCUMVOLATION
Cir`cum*vo*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumvolate. -volatum, to fly
around; circum + volare to fly.]

Defn: The act of flying round. [R.]

CIRCUMVOLUTION
Cir`cum*vo*lu"tion, n. Etym: [See Circumvolve.]

1. The act of rolling round; the state of being rolled.

2. A thing rolled round another. Arbuthnot.

3. A roundabout procedure; a circumlocution.
He had neither time nor temper for sentimental circumvolutions.
Beaconsfield.

CIRCUMVOLVE
Cir`cum*volve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circumvolved; p. pr. vb. n.
Circumvolving.] Etym: [L. circumvolvere, -volutum; circum + volvere
to roll.]

Defn: To roll round; to cause to revolve; to put into a circular
motion. Herrick.

CIRCUMVOLVE
Cir`cum*volve", v. i.

Defn: To roll round; to revolve.

CIRCUS
Cir"cus, n.; pl. Circuses. Etym: [L. circus circle, ring, circus (in
sense 1). See Circle, and cf. Cirque.]

1. (Roman Antiq.)

Defn: A level oblong space surrounded on three sides by seats of
wood, earth, or stone, rising in tiers one above another, and divided
lengthwise through the middle by a barrier around which the track or
course was laid out. It was used for chariot races, games, and public
shows.

Note: The Circus Maximus at Rome could contain more than 100,000
spectators. Harpers' Latin Dict.

2. A circular inclosure for the exhibition of feats of horsemanship,
acrobatic displays, etc. Also, the company of performers, with their
equipage.

3. Circuit; space; inclosure. [R.]
The narrow circus of my dungeon wall. Byron.

CIRL BUNTING
Cirl" bun`ting. Etym: [Cf. It. cirlo.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European bunting (Emberiza cirlus).

CIRQUE
Cirque, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. circus.]

1. A circle; a circus; a circular erection or arrangement of objects.
A dismal cirque Of Druid stones upon a forlorn moor. Keats.

2. A kind of circular valley in the side of a mountain, walled around
by precipices of great height.

CIRRATE
Cir"rate, a. Etym: [L. cirratus having ringlets, fr. cirrus a curl.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Having cirri along the margin of a part or organ.

CIRRHIFEROUS
Cir*rhif"er*ous, a.

Defn: See Cirriferous.

CIRRHOSE
Cir"rhose, a.

Defn: Same as Cirrose.

CIRRHOSIS
Cir*rho"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. cirrhose. So called from the
yellowish appearance which the diseased liver often presents when
cut.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease of the liver in which it usually becomes smaller in
size and more dense and fibrous in consistence; hence sometimes
applied to similar changes in other organs, caused by increase in the
fibrous framework and decrease in the proper substance of the organ.

CIRRHOTIC
Cir*rhot"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, caused by, or affected with, cirrhosis; as,
cirrhotic degeneration; a cirrhotic liver.

CIRRHOUS
Cir"rhous, a.

Defn: See Cirrose.

CIRRHUS
Cir"rhus, n.

Defn: Same as Cirrus.

CIRRI
Cir"ri, n. pl.

Defn: See Cirrus.

CIRRIFEROUS
Cir*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Cirrus + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing cirri, as many plants and animals.

CIRRIFORM
Cir"ri*form, a. Etym: [Cirrus + -form.] (Biol.)

Defn: Formed like a cirrus or tendril; -- said of appendages of both
animals and plants.

CIRRIGEROUS
Cir*rig"er*ous, a. Etym: [Cirrus + -gerous.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having curled locks of hair; supporting cirri, or hairlike
appendages.

CIRRIGRADE
Cir"ri*grade, a. Etym: [Cirrus + L. gradi to walk.] (Biol.)

Defn: Moving or moved by cirri, or hairlike appendages.

CIRRIPED
Cir"ri*ped, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cirripedia.

CIRRIPEDIA
Cir`ri*pe"di*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. cirrus curl + pes, pedis,
foot.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Crustacea including the barnacles. When adult, they
have a calcareous shell composed of several pieces. From the opening
of the shell the animal throws out a group of curved legs, looking
like a delicate curl, whence the name of the group. See Anatifa.

CIRROBRANCHIATA
Cir`ro*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. E. cirrus + L. branchiae
gills.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Mollusca having slender, cirriform appendages
near the mouth; the Scaphopoda.

CIRRO-CUMULUS
Cir`ro-cu"mu*lus, n. Etym: [Cirrus + cumulus.] (Meteor.)

Defn: See under Cloud.

CIRROSE
Cir"rose, a. Etym: [See Cirrus.] (Bot.)
(a) Bearing a tendril or tendrils; as, a cirrose leaf.
(b) Resembling a tendril or cirrus. [Spelt also cirrhose.]

CIRROSTOMI
Cir`ros"to*mi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. E. cirrus + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lowest group of vertebrates; -- so called from the cirri
around the mouth; the Leptocardia. See Amphioxus.

CIRRO-STRATUS
Cir`ro-stra"tus, n. Etym: [Cirrus + stratus.] (Meteor.)

Defn: See under Cloud.

CIRROUS
Cir"rous, a.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Cirrose.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Tufted; -- said of certain feathers of birds.

CIRRUS
Cir"rus, n.; pl. Cirri. Etym: [L., lock, curl, ringlet.] [Also
written cirrhus.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A tendril or clasper.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A soft tactile appendage of the mantle of many Mollusca, and of
the parapodia of Annelida. Those near the head of annelids are
Tentacular cirri; those of the last segment are caudal cirri.
(b) The jointed, leglike organs of Cirripedia. See Annelida, and
Polychæta.

Note: In some of the inferior animals the cirri aid in locomotion; in
others they are used in feeding; in the Annelida they are mostly
organs of touch. Some cirri are branchial in function.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The external male organ of trematodes and some other worms, and
of certain Mollusca.

4. (Meteor.)

Defn: See under Cloud.

CIRSOCELE
Cir"so*cele, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The varicose dilatation of the spermatic vein.

CIRSOID
Cir"soid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Med.)

Defn: Varicose. Cirsoid aneurism, a disease of an artery in which it
becomes dilated and elongated, like a varicose vein.

CIRSOTOMY
Cir*sot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: Any operation for the removal of varices by incision.
Dunglison.

CIS-
Cis-.

Defn: A Latin preposition, sometimes used as a prefix in English
words, and signifying on this side.

CISALPINE
Cis*al"pine, a. Etym: [L. Cisalpinus; cis on this side + Alpinus
Alpine.]

Defn: On the hither side of the Alps with reference to Rome, that is,
on the south side of the Alps; -- opposed to transalpine.

CISATLANTIC
Cis`at*lan"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. cis- + Atlantic.]

Defn: On this side of the Atlantic Ocean; -- used of the eastern or
the western side, according to the standpoint of the writer. Story.

CISCO
Cis"co, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Lake herring (Coregonus Artedi), valuable food fish of the
Great Lakes of North America. The name is also applied to C. Hoyi, a
related species of Lake Michigan.

CISELURE
Ci`se*lure", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The process of chasing on metals; also, the work thus chased.
Weale.

CISLEITHAN
Cis*lei"than, a. Etym: [Pref. cis- + Leitha.]

Defn: On the Austrian side of the river Leitha; Austrian.

CISMONTANE
Cis*mon"tane, a. Etym: [Pref. cis- + L. mons mountain.]

Defn: On this side of the mountains. See under Ultramontane.

CISPADANE
Cis"pa*dane`, a. Etym: [Pref. cis- + L. Padanus, pert. to the Padus
or Po.]

Defn: On the hither side of the river Po with reference to Rome; that
is, on the south side.

CISSOID
Cis"soid, n. Etym: [Gr. (Geom.)

Defn: A curve invented by Diocles, for the purpose of solving two
celebrated problems of the higher geometry; viz., to trisect a plane
angle, and to construct two geometrical means between two given
straight lines.

CIST
Cist, n. Etym: [L. cista box, chest, Gr. Chest.]

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: A box or chest. Specifically: (a) A bronze receptacle, round or
oval, frequently decorated with engravings on the sides and cover,
and with feet, handles, etc., of decorative castings. (b) A cinerary
urn. See Illustration in Appendix.

2. See Cyst.

CISTED
Cist"ed, a.

Defn: Inclosed in a cyst. See Cysted.

CISTERCIAN
Cis*ter"cian, n. Etym: [LL. Cistercium. F. Cîteaux, a convent not far
from Dijon, in France: cf. F. cistercien.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A monk of the prolific branch of the Benedictine Order,
established in 1098 at Cîteaux, in France, by Robert, abbot of
Molesme. For two hundred years the Cistercians followed the rule of
St. Benedict in all its rigor.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cistercians.

CISTERN
Cis"tern, n. Etym: [OE. cisterne, OF. cisterne, F. cisterne, fr. L.
cisterna, fr. cista box, chest. See Cist, and cf. chest.]

1. An artificial reservoir or tank for holding water, beer, or other
liquids.

2. A natural reservoir; a hollow place containing water. "The wide
cisterns of the lakes." Blackmore.

CISTIC
Cist"ic, a.

Defn: See Cystic.

CIT
Cit (, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. citizen.]

Defn: A citizen; an inhabitant of a city; a pert townsman; -- used
contemptuously. "Insulted as a cit". Johnson
Which past endurance sting the tender cit. Emerson.

CITABLE
Cit"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being cited.

CITADEL
Cit"a*del, n. Etym: [F. citadelle, It. citadella, dicitt city, fr. L.
civitas. See City.]

Defn: A fortress in or near a fortified city, commanding the city and
fortifications, and intended as a final point of defense. Syn. -
Stronghold. See Fortress.

CITAL
Cit"al, n. Etym: [From Cite]

1. Summons to appear, as before a judge. [R.] Johnson

2. Citation; quotation [R.] Johnson.

CITATION
Ci*ta"tion, n. Etym: [F. citation, LL. citatio, fr.L. citare to cite.
See Cite]

1. An official summons or notice given to a person to appear; the
paper containing such summons or notice.

2. The act of citing a passage from a book, or from another person,
in his own words; also, the passage or words quoted; quotation.
This horse load of citations and fathers. Milton.

3. Enumeration; mention; as, a citation of facts.

4. (Law)

Defn: A reference to decided cases, or books of authority, to prove a
point in law.

CITATOR
Ci*ta"tor, n.

Defn: One who cites. [R]

CITATORY
Ci"ta*to*ry, a. Etym: [LL. citatirius.]

Defn: Having the power or form of a citation; as, letters citatory.

CITE
Cite, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cited; p. pr. & vb. n. Citing] Etym: [F.
citer, fr. L. citare, intens. of cire, ciere, to put in motion, to
excite; akin to Gr.

1. To call upon officially or authoritatively to appear, as before a
court; to summon.
The cited dead, Of all past ages, to the general doom Shall hasten.
Milton.
Cited by finger of God. De Quincey.

2. To urge; to enjoin. [R.] Shak.

3. To quote; to repeat, as a passage from a book, or the words of
another.
The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose. Shak.

4. To refer to or specify, as for support, proof, illustration, or
confirmation.
The imperfections which you have cited. Shak.

5. To bespeak; to indicate. [Obs.]
Aged honor cites a virtuous youth. Shak.

6. (Law)

Defn: To notify of a proceeding in court. Abbot

Syn.
 -- To quote; mention, name; refer to; adduce; select; call; summon.
See Quote.

CITER
Cit"er, n.

Defn: One who cites.

CITESS
Cit"ess, n. Etym: [From Cit.]

Defn: A city woman [R.]

CITHARA
Cith"a*ra, n. Etym: [L. Cf. Cittern, Guitar.] (Mus.)

Defn: An ancient instrument resembling the harp.

CITHARISTIC
Cith`a*ris"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining, or adapted, to the cithara.

CITHERN
Cith"ern, n.

Defn: See Cittern.

CITICISM
Cit"i*cism, n. Etym: [From cit.]

Defn: The manners of a cit or citizen.

CITIED
Cit"ied, a.

1. Belonging to, or resembling, a city. "Smoky, citied towns" [R.]
Drayton.

2. Containing, or covered with, cities. [R.] "The citied earth."
Keats.

CITIFIED
Cit"i*fied, a. Etym: [City +-fy.]

Defn: Aping, or having, the manners of a city.

CITIGRADAE
Cit`i*gra"dæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. citus swift (p. p. of cire,
ciere, to move) + gradi to walk. See Cite.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of Arachnoidea, including the European tarantula and
the wolf spiders (Lycosidae) and their allies, which capture their
prey by rapidly running and jumping. See Wolf spider.

CITIGRADE
Cit"i*grade, a. Etym: [Cf. F. citigrade.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Citigradæ.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Citigradæ.

CITINER
Cit"i*ner, n.

Defn: One who is born or bred in a city; a citizen. [Obs.] Champan.

CITIZEN
Cit"i*zen, n. Etym: [OE. citisein, OF. citeain, F. citoyen, fr. cité
city. See City, and cf. Cit.]

1. One who enjoys the freedom and privileges of a city; a freeman of
a city, as distinguished from a foreigner, or one not entitled to its
franchises.
That large body of the working men who were not counted as citizens
and had not so much as a vote to serve as an anodyne to their
stomachs. G. Eliot.

2. An inhabitant of a city; a townsman. Shak.

3. A person, native or naturalized, of either sex, who owes
allegiance to a government, and is entitled to reciprocal protection
from it.

Note: This protection is . . . national protection, recognition of
the individual, in the face of foreign nations, as a member of the
state, and assertion of his security and rights abroad as well as at
home. Abbot

4. One who is domiciled in a country, and who is a citizen, though
neither native nor naturalized, in such a sense that he takes his
legal status from such country.

CITIZEN
Cit"i*zen, a.

1. Having the condition or qualities of a citizen, or of citizens;
as, a citizen soldiery.

2. Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of a city; characteristic of
citizens; effeminate; luxurious. [Obs.]
I am not well, But not so citizen a wanton as To seem to die ere
sick. Shak.

CITIZENESS
Cit"i*zen*ess, n.

Defn: A female citizen. [R.]

CITIZENSHIP
Cit"i*zen*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a citizen; the status of a citizen.

CITOLE
Cit"ole, n. Etym: [OF. citole, fr. L. cithara. See Cittern.] (Mus.)

Defn: A musical instrument; a kind of dulcimer. [Obs.]

CITRACONIC
Cit`ra*con"ic, a. Etym: [Citric + aconitic.]

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or having certain characteristics
of, citric and aconitic acids. Citraconic acid (Chem.), a white,
crystalline, deliquescent substance, C3H4(CO2H)2, obtained by
distillation of citric acid. It is a compound of the ethylene series.

CITRANGE
Cit"range, n.  [Citrus + orange.]

Defn: A citrous fruit produced by a cross between the sweet orange
and the trifoliate orange (Citrus trifoliata). It is more acid and
has a more pronounced aroma than the orange; the tree is hardier.
There are several varieties.

CITRATE
Cit"rate, n. Etym: [From Citric.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of citric acid.

CITRIC
Cit"ric, a. Etym: [Cf. F. citrique. See Citron.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the citron or lemon; as,
citric acid. Citric acid (Chem.), an organic acid, C3H4OH.(CO2H)3,
extracted from lemons, currants, gooseberies, etc., as a white
crystalline substance, having a pleasant sour taste.

CITRINATION
Cit`ri*na"tion, n. Etym: [See Citrine.]

Defn: The process by which anything becomes of the color of a lemon;
esp., in alchemy, the state of perfection in the philosopher's stone
indicated by its assuming a deep yellow color. Thynne.

CITRINE
Cit"rine, a. Etym: [F. citrin. See Citron.]

Defn: Like a citron or lemon; of a lemon color; greenish yellow.
Citrine ointment (Med.), a yellowish mercurial ointment, the
unquentum hydrargyri nitratis.

CITRINE
Cit"rine, n.

Defn: A yellow, pellucid variety of quartz.

CITRON
Cit"ron, n. Etym: [F. citron, LL. citro, fr. L. citrus citron tree
(cf. citreum, sc. malum, a citron), from Gr.

1. (Bot)

Defn: A fruit resembling a lemon, but larger, and pleasantly
aromatic. The thick rind, when candied, is the citron of commerce.

2. A citron tree.

3. A citron melon. Citron melon. (a) A small variety of muskmelon
with sugary greenish flesh. (b) A small variety of watermelon, whose
solid white flesh is used in making sweetmeats and preserves.
 -- Citron tree (Bot.), the tree which bears citrons. It was probably
a native of northern India, and is now understood to be the typical
form of Citrus Medica.

CITRUS
Cit"rus, n. Etym: [L., a citron tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees including the orange, lemon, citron, etc.,
originally natives of southern Asia.

CITTERN
Cit"tern, n. Etym: [L.cithara, Gr. Cithara, Gittern.] (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument shaped like a lute, but strung with wire and
played with a quill or plectrum. [Written also cithern.] Shak.

Note: Not to be confounded with zither.

CITTERN-HEAD
Cit"tern-head`, n.

Defn: Blockhead; dunce; -- so called because the handle of a cittern
usually ended with a carved head. Marsion

CITY
Cit"y (, n.; pl. Cities. Etym: [OE. cite, F. citcivitas citizenship,
state, city, fr. civis citizen; akin to Goth. heiwa (in heiwafrauja
man of the house), AS. heirath marriage, prop., providing a house, E.
hind a peasant.]

1. A large town.

2. A corporate town; in the United States, a town or collective body
of inhabitants, incorporated and governed by a mayor and aldermen or
a city council consisting of a board of aldermen and a common
council; in Great Britain, a town corporate, which is or has been the
seat of a bishop, or the capital of his see.
A city is a town incorporated; which is, or has been, the see of a
bishop; and though the bishopric has been dissolved, as at
Westminster, it yet remaineth a city. Blackstone
When Gorges constituted York a city, he of course meant it to be the
seat of a bishop, for the word city has no other meaning in English
law. Palfrey

3. The collective body of citizens, or inhabitants of a city. "What
is the city but the people" Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Village.

CITY
Cit"y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a city. Shak. City council. See under
Council.
 -- City court, The municipal court of a city. [U. S.] -- City ward,
a watchman, or the collective watchmen, of a city. [Obs.] Fairfax.

CIVE
Cive, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Chive.

CIVET
Civ"et, n. Etym: [F. civette (cf. It. zibetto) civet, civet cat, fr.
LGr. zub, zab, civet.]

1. A substance, of the consistence of butter or honey, taken from
glands in the anal pouch of the civet (Viverra civetta). It is of
clear yellowish or brownish color, of a strong, musky odor, offensive
when undiluted, but agreeble when a small portion is mixed with
another substance. It is used as a perfume.

2. (Zoöl)

Defn: The animal that produces civet (Viverra civetta); -- called
also civet cat. It is carnivorous, from two to three feet long, and
of a brownish gray color, with transverse black bands and spots on
the body and tail. It is a native of northern Africa and of Asia. The
name is also applied to other species.

CIVET
Civ"et, v. t.

Defn: To scent or perfume with civet. Cowper

CIVIC
Civ"ic, a. Etym: [L.civicus, fr. civis citizen. See City.]

Defn: Relating to, or derived from, a city or citizen; relating to
man as a member of society, or to civil affairs. Civic crown (Rom.
Antiq.), a crown or garland of oak leaves and acorns, bestowed on a
soldier who had saved the life of a citizen in battle.

CIVICISM
Civ"i*cism, n.

Defn: The principle of civil government.

CIVICS
Civ"ics, n.

Defn: The science of civil government.

CIVIL
Civ"il, a. Etym: [L. civilis, fr. civis citizen: cf. F. civil. See
City.]

1. Pertaining to a city or state, or to a citizen in his relations to
his fellow citizens or to the state; within the city or state.

2. Subject to government; reduced to order; civilized; not barbarous;
-- said of the community.
England was very rude and barbarous; for it is but even the other day
since England grew civil. Spenser.

3. Performing the duties of a citizen; obedient to government; --
said of an individual.
Civil men come nearer the saints of God than others; they come within
a step or two of heaven. Preston

4. Having the manners of one dwelling in a city, as opposed to those
of savages or rustics; polite; courteous; complaisant; affable.

Note: "A civil man now is one observant of slight external courtesies
in the mutual intercourse between man and man; a civil man once was
one who fulfilled all the duties and obligations flowing from his
position as a 'civis' and his relations to the other members of that
'civitas.'" Trench

5. Pertaining to civic life and affairs, in distinction from
military, ecclesiastical, or official state.

6. Relating to rights and remedies sought by action or suit distinct
from criminal proceedings. Civil action, an action to enforce the
rights or redress the wrongs of an individual, not involving a
criminal proceeding.
 -- Civil architecture, the architecture which is employed in
constructing buildings for the purposes of civil life, in distinction
from military and naval architecture, as private houses, palaces,
churches, etc.
 -- Civil death. (Law.) See under Death.
 -- Civil engineering. See under Engineering.
 -- Civil law. See under Law.
 -- Civil list. See under List.
 -- Civil remedy (Law), that given to a person injured, by action, as
opposed to a criminal prosecution.
 -- Civil service, all service rendered to and paid for by the state
or nation other than that pertaining to naval or military affairs.
 -- Civil service reform, the substitution of business principles and
methods for the spoils system in the conduct of the civil service,
esp. in the matter of appointments to office.
 -- Civil state, the whole body of the laity or citizens not included
under the military, maritime, and ecclesiastical states.
 -- Civil suit. Same as Civil action.
 -- CCivil war. See under War.
 -- Civil year. See under Year.

CIVILIAN
Ci*vil"ian, n. Etym: [From Civil]

1. One skilled in the civil law.
Ancient civilians and writers upon government. Swift.

2. A student of the civil law at a university or college. R. Graves.

3. One whose pursuits are those of civil life, not military or
clerical.

CIVILIST
Civ"il*ist, n.

Defn: A civilian. [R.] Warbur

CIVILITY
Ci*vil"i*ty, n.; pl. Civilities. Etym: [L. civilitas: cf. F.
civilité. See Civil.]

1. The state of society in which the relations and duties of a
citizen are recognized and obeyed; a state of civilization. [Obs.]
Monarchies have risen from barbarrism to civility, and fallen again
to ruin. Sir J. Davies.
The gradual depature of all deeper signification from the word
civility has obliged the creation of another word -- civilization.
Trench.

2. A civil office, or a civil process [Obs.]
To serve in a civility. Latimer.

3. Courtesy; politeness; kind attention; good breeding; a polite act
or expression.
The insolent civility of a proud man is, if possible, more shocking
than his rudeness could be. Chesterfield.
The sweet civilities of life. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Urbanity; affability; complaisance.

CIVILIZABLE
Civ"i*li`za*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being civilized.

CIVILIZATION
Civ`i*li*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. civilisation.]

1. The act of civilizing, or the state of being civilized; national
culture; refinement.
Our manners, our civilization, and all the good things connected with
manners, and with civilization, have, in this European world of ours,
depended for ages upon two principles -- . . . the spirit of a
gentleman, and spirit of religion. Burke

2. (Law)

Defn: Rendering a criminal process civil. [Obs.]

CIVILIZE
Civ"i*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Civilized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Civilizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. civilizer, fr.L. civilis civil. See
Civil.]

1. To reclaim from a savage state; to instruct in the rules and
customs of civilization; to educate; to refine.
Yet blest that fate which did his arms dispose Her land to civilize,
as to subdue. Dryden

2. To admit as suitable to a civilized state. [Obs. or R.]
"Civilizing adultery." Milton.

Syn.
 -- To polish; refine; humanize.

CIVILIZED
Civ"i*lized, a.

Defn: Reclaimed from savage life and manners; instructed in arts,
learning, and civil manners; refined; cultivated.
Sale of conscience and duty in open market is not reconcilable with
the present state of civilized society. J. Quincy.

CIVILIZER
Civ"i*li*zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, civilizes or tends to civilize.

CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
Civil Service Commission.

Defn: In the United States, a commission appointed by the President,
consisting of three members, not more than two of whom may be
adherents of the same party, which has the control, through
examinations, of appointments and promotions in the classified civil
service. It was created by act of Jan, 16, 1883 (22 Stat. 403).

CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
Civil Service Reform.

Defn: The substitution of business principles and methods for
political methods in the conduct of the civil service. esp. the merit
system instead of the spoils system in making appointments to office.

CIVILY
Civ"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a civil manner; as regards civil rights and privileges;
politely; courteously; in a well bred manner.

CIVISM
Civ"ism, n. Etym: [Cf.F. civisme, fr.L. civis citizen.]

Defn: State of citizenship. [R.] Dyer.

CIZAR
Ciz"ar, v. i. Etym: [From Cizars.]

Defn: To clip with scissors. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

CIZARS
Ciz"ars, n. pl.

Defn: Scissors. [Obs.] Swift.

CIZE
Cize, n.

Defn: Bulk; largeness. [Obs.] See Size.

CLABBER
Clab"ber, n. Etym: [See Bonnyclabber]

Defn: Milk curdled so as to become thick.

CLABBER
Clab"ber, v. i.

Defn: To become clabber; to lopper.

CLACHAN
Clach"an, n. Etym: [Scot., fr.Gael.]

Defn: A small village containing a church. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott
Sitting at the clachon alehouse. R. L. Stevenson.

CLACK
Clack, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clacked;p. pr. & vb. n. Clacking.] Etym:
[Prob. of imitative origin; cf. F.claquer to clap, crack, D. klakken,
MHG. klac crack, Ir. clagaim I make a noise, ring. Cf. Clack, n.,
Clatter, Click.]

1. To make a sudden, sharp noise, or a succesion of such noises, as
by striking an object, or by collision of parts; to rattle; to click.
We heard Mr.Hodson's whip clacking on the ahoulders of the poor
little wretches. Thackeray.

2. To utter words rapidly and continually, or with abruptness; to let
the tongue run.

CLACK
Clack, v. t.

1. To cause to make a sudden, sharp noise, or succession of noises;
to click.

2. To utter rapidly and inconsiderately. Feltham. To clack wool, to
cut off the sheep's mark, in order to make the wool weigh less and
thus yield less duty. [Eng.]

CLACK
Clack, n. Etym: [Cf. F. claque a slap or smack, MHG. klac crack, W.
clec crack, gossip. See Clack, v. t.]

1. A sharp, abrupt noise, or succession of noises, made by striking
an object.

2. Anything that causes a clacking noise, as the clapper of a mill,
or a clack valve.

3. Continual or importunate talk; prattle; prating.
Whose chief intent is to vaunt his spiritual clack. South.
Clack box (Mach.), the box or chamber in which a clack valve works.
 -- Clack dish, a dish with a movable lid, formerly carried by
beggars, who clacked the lid to attract notice. Shak. Clack door
(Mining), removable cover of the opening through which access is had
to a pump valve.
 -- Clack valve (Mach.), a valve; esp. one hinged at one edge, which,
when raised from its seat, falls with a clacking sound.

CLACKER
Clack"er, n.

1. One who clacks; that which clacks; especially, the clapper of a
mill.

2. A claqueur. See Claqueur.

CLAD
Clad, v.t

Defn: To clothe. [Obs.] Holland.

CLAD
Clad,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Clothe.

CLADOCERA
Cla*doc"e*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of the Entomostraca.

Note: They have a bivalve shell, covering the body but not the head,
and from four to six pairs of legs and two pairs of antenæ, for use
in swimming. They mostly inhabit fresh water.

CLADOPHYLL
Clad"o*phyll, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A special branch, resembling a leaf, as in the apparent foliage
of the broom (Ruscus) and of the common cultivated smilax
(Myrsiphillum).

CLAGGY
Clag"gy, a. Etym: [Cf. Clog.]

Defn: Adhesive; -- said of a roof in a mine to which coal clings.

CLAIK
Claik, n.

Defn: See Clake.

CLAIM
Claim (klam), v. [imp. & p. p. Claimed (klamd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Claiming.] Etym: [OE. clamen, claimen, OF. clamer, fr. L. clamare to
cry out, call; akin to calare to proclaim, Gr. kal to sound, G. holen
to fetch, E. hale haul.]

1. To ask for, or seek to obtain, by virtue of authority, right, or
supposed right; to challenge as a right; to demand as due.

2. To proclaim. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. To call or name. [Obs.] Spenser.

4. To assert; to maintain. [Colloq.]

CLAIM
Claim, v. i.

Defn: To be entitled to anything; to deduce a right or title; to have
a claim.
We must know how the first ruler, from whom any one claims, came by
his authority. Locke.

CLAIM
Claim, n. Etym: [Of. claim cry, complaint, from clamer. See Claim,
v.t.]

1. A demand of a right or supposed right; a calling on another for
something due or supposed to be due; an assertion of a right or fact.

2. A right to claim or demand something; a title to any debt,
privilege, or other thing in possession of another; also, a title to
anything which another should give or concede to, or confer on, the
claimant. "A bar to all claims upon land." Hallam.

3. The thing claimed or demanded; that (as land) to which any one
intends to establish a right; as a settler's claim; a miner's claim.
[U.S. & Australia]

4. A laoud call. [Obs.] Spenser
To lay claim to, to demand as a right. "Doth he lay claim to thine
inheritance" Shak.

CLAIMABLE
Claim"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being claimed.

CLAIMANT
Claim"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. clamant, p. pr. of clamer. Cf.Clamant.]

Defn: One who claims; one who asserts a right or title; a claimer.

CLAIMER
Claim"er, n.

Defn: One who claims; a claimant.

CLAIMLESS
Claim"less, a.

Defn: Having no claim.

CLAIRAUDIENCE
Clair*au"di*ence, n. [F. clair clear + F. & E. audience a hearing.
See Clear.]

Defn: Act of hearing, or the ability to hear, sounds not normally
audible; -- usually claimed as a special faculty of spiritualistic
mediums, or the like.

CLAIRAUDIENT
Clair*au"di*ent, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, clairaudience.

CLAIRAUDIENT
Clair*au"di*ent, n.

Defn: One alleged to have the power of clairaudience.

CLAIRE
Claire, n. [F.]

Defn: A small inclosed pond used for gathering and greening oysters.

CLAIR-OBSCUR
Clair"-ob*scur" (, n. Etym: [F. See Clare-obscure.]

Defn: See Chiaroscuro.

CLAIRVOYANCE
Clair*voy"ance, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A power, attributed to some persons while in a mesmeric state,
of discering objects not perceptible by the senses in their normal
condition.

CLAIRVOYANT
Clair*voy"ant, a. Etym: [F., fr. clair clear + voyant, p. pr. of voir
to see. See Clear, and Vision.]

Defn: Pertaining to clairvoyance; discerning objects while in a
mesmeric state which are not present to the senses.

CLAIRVOYANT
Clair*voy"ant n.

Defn: One who is able, when in a mesmeric state, to discern objects
not present to the senses.

CLAKE; CLAIK
Clake, Claik, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bernicle goose; -- called also clack goose.

CLAM
Clam, n. Etym: [Cf. Clamp, Clam, v. t., Clammy.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bivalve mollusk of many kinds, especially those that are
edible; as, the long clam (Mya arenaria), the quahog or round clam
(Venus mercenaria), the sea clam or hen clam (Spisula solidissima),
and other species of the United States. The name is said to have been
given originally to the Tridacna gigas, a huge East Indian bivalve.
You shall scarce find any bay or shallow shore, or cove of sand,
where you may not take many clampes, or lobsters, or both, at your
pleasure. Capt. John Smith (1616).
Clams, or clamps, is a shellfish not much unlike a coclke; it lieth
under the sand. Wood (1634).

2. (Ship Carp.)

Defn: Strong pinchers or forceps.

3. pl. (Mech.)

Defn: A kind of vise, usually of wood. Blood clam. See under Blood.

CLAM
Clam (clam), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clammed; p. pr. & vb. n. Clamming.]
Etym: [Cf. AS. clæman to clam, smear; akin to Icel. kleima to smear,
OHG. kleimjan, chleimen, to defile, or E. clammy.]

Defn: To clog, as with glutinous or viscous matter.
A swarm of wasps got into a honey pot, and there they cloyed and
clammed Themselves till there was no getting out again. L'Estrange.

CLAM
Clam, v. i.

Defn: To be moist or glutinous; to stick; to adhere. [R.] Dryden

CLAM
Clam, n.

Defn: Claminess; moisture. [R.] "The clam of death." Carlyle.

CLAM
Clam, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. clamor.]

Defn: A crash or clangor made by ringing all the bells of a chime at
once. Nares.

CLAM
Clam, v. t. & i.

Defn: To produce, in bell ringing, a clam or clangor; to cause to
clang. Nares.

CLAMANT
Cla"mant, a. Etym: [L. clamans, p. pr. of clamare to call. Cf.
Claimant.]

Defn: Crying earnestly, beseeching clamorousky. "Clamant children."
Thomson.

CLAMATION
Cla*ma"tion, n. Etym: [LL. clamatio, fr. L. clamare to call.]

Defn: The act of crying out. Sir T. Browne.

CLAMATORES
Clam`a*to"res, n. pl. Etym: [L. clamator, pl. clamatores, a bawler.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of passerine birds in which the vocal muscles are
but little developed, so that they lack the power of singing.

CLAMATORIAL
Clam`a*to"rial, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Clamatores.

CLAMBAKE
Clam"bake, n.

Defn: The backing or steaming of clams on heated stones, between
layers of seaweed; hence, a picnic party, gathered on such an
occasion.

CLAMBER
Clam"ber, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clambered; p. pr. & vb. n. Clambering.]
Etym: [OE clambren, clameren, to heap together, climb; akin to Icel.
klambra to clamp, G. klammern. Cf. Clamp, Climb.]

Defn: To climb with difficulty, or with hands and feet; -- also used
figuratively.
The narrow street that clambered toward the mill. Tennyson.

CLAMBER
Clam"ber, n.

Defn: The act of clambering. T. Moore.

CLAMBER
Clam"ber, v. t.

Defn: To ascend by climbing with difficulty.
Clambering the walls to eye him. Shak.

CLAMJAMPHRIE
Clam*jam"phrie, n.

Defn: Low, worthless people; the rabble. [Scot.] Jamieson.

CLAMMILY
Clam"mi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a clammy manner. "Oozing so clammily." Hood.

CLAMMINESS
Clam"mi*ness, n.

Defn: State of being clammy or viscous.

CLAMMY
Clam"my, a. [Compar. Clammier; superl. Clammiest.] Etym: [Cf. AS.
clam clay. See Clam to clog, and cf. Clay.]

Defn: Having the quality of being viscous or adhesive; soft and
sticky; glutinous; damp and adhesive, as if covered with a cold
perspiration.

CLAMOR
Clam"or, n. Etym: [OF. clamour, clamur, F. clameur, fr. L. clamor,
fr. clamare to cry out. See Claim.]

1. A great outcry or vociferation; loud and continued shouting or
exclamation. Shak.

2. Any loud and continued noise. Addison.

3. A continued expression of dissatisfaction or discontent; a popular
outcry. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Outcry; exclamation; noise; uproar.

CLAMOR
Clam"or, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clamored; p. pr. & vb. n. Clamoring.]

1. To salute loudly. [R.]
The people with a shout Rifted the air, clamoring their god with
praise. Milton
.

2. To stun with noise. [R.] Bacon.

3. To utter loudly or repeatedly; to shout.
Clamored their piteous prayer incessantly. Longfellow.
To clamor bells, to repeat the strokes quickly so as to produce a
loud clang. Bp. Warbur

CLAMOR
Clam"or, v. i.

Defn: To utter loud sounds or outcries; to vociferate; to complain;
to make importunate demands.
The obscure bird Clamored the livelong night. Shak.

CLAMORER
Clam"or*er, n.

Defn: One who clamors.

CLAMOROUS
Clam"or*ous, a. Etym: [LL. clamorosus, for L. Clamosus: cf. OF.
clamoreux.]

Defn: Speaking and repeating loud words; full of clamor; calling or
demanding loudly or urgently; vociferous; noisy; bawling; loud;
turbulent. "My young ones were clamorous for a morning's excursion."
Southey.
 -- Clam"or*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Clam"or*ous*ness, n.

CLAMP
Clamp, n. Etym: [Cf. LG. & D. klamp, Dan. klampe, also D. klampen to
fasten, clasp. Cf. Clam, Cramp.]

1. Something rigid that holds fast or binds things together; a piece
of wood or metal, used to hold two or more pieces together.

2.
(a) An instrument with a screw or screws by which work is held in its
place or two parts are temporarily held together.
(b) (Joinery) A piece of wood placed across another, or inserted into
another, to bind or strengthen.

3. One of a pair of movable pieces of lead, or other soft material,
to cover the jaws of a vise and enable it to grasp without bruising.

4. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A thick plank on the inner part of a ship's side, used to
sustuan the ends of beams.

5. A mass of bricks heaped up to be burned; or of ore for roasting,
or of coal coking.

6. A mollusk. See Clam. [Obs.]
Clamp nails, nails used to fasten on clamps in ships.

CLAMP
Clamp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clamped p. pr. & vb. n. Clamping.]

1. To fasten with a clamp or clamps; to apply a clamp to; to place in
a clamp.

2. To cover, as vegetables, with earth. [Eng.]

CLAMP
Clamp, n. Etym: [Prob. an imitative word. Cf.Clank.]

Defn: A heavy footstep; a tramp.

CLAMP
Clamp, v. i.

Defn: To tread heavily or clumsily; to clump.
The policeman with clamping feet. Thackeray.

CLAMPER
Clamp"er, n.

Defn: An instrument of iron, with sharp prongs, attached to a boot or
shoe to enable the wearer to walk securely upon ice; a creeper. Kane.

CLAN
Clan, n. Etym: [Gael. clann offspring, descendants; akin to Ir.
clann, cland, offspring, tribe, family; perh. from L. plania scion,
slip, cutting. Cf. Plant, n.]

1. A tribe or collection of families, united under a chieftain,
regarded as having the same common ancestor, and bearing the same
surname; as, the clan of Macdonald. "I have marshaled my clan."
Campbell.

2. A clique; a sect, society, or body of persons; esp., a body of
persons united by some common interest or pursuit; -- sometimes used
contemptuously.
Partidge and the rest of his clan may hoot me. Smolett.
The whole clan of the enlightened among us. Burke.

CLANCULAR
Clan"cu*lar, a. Etym: [L. clancularius , from clanculum secretly,
adv. dim. of clam secretly.]

Defn: Conducted with secrecy; clandestine; concealed. [Obs.]
Not close and clancular, but frank and open. Barrow.

CLANCULARLY
Clan"cu*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: privately; secretly. [Obs.]

CLANDESTINE
Clan*des"tine, a. Etym: [L. clandestinus, fr. clam secretly; akin to
celare, E. conceal: cf. F. clandestin.]

Defn: Conducted with secrecy; withdrawn from public notice, usually
for an evil purpose; kept secret; hidden; private; underhand; as, a
clandestine marriage. Locke.

Syn.
 -- Hidden; secret; private; concealed; underhand; sly; stealthy;
surreptitious; furtive; fraudulent.
 -- Clan*des"tine*ly, adv.
 -- Clan*des"tine*ness, n.

CLANDESTINITY
Clan`des*tin"i*ty, n.

Defn: Privacy or secrecy. [R.]

CLANG
Clang, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clanged; p. pr. & vb. n. Clanging.] Etym:
[L. clangere; akin to Gr. clank.]

Defn: To strike together so as to produce a ringing metallic sound.
The fierce Caretes . . . clanged their sounding arms. Prior.

CLANG
Clang, v. i.

Defn: To give out a clang; to resound. "Clanging hoofs." Tennyson.

CLANG
Clang, n.

1. A loud, ringing sound, like that made by metallic substances when
clanged or struck together.
The broadsword's deadly clang, As if a thousand anvils rang. Sir W.
Scott.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: Qualyty of tone.

CLANGOR
Clan"gor, n. Etym: [L., fr. clangere. See Clang, v. t.]

Defn: A sharp, harsh, ringing sound. Dryden.

CLANGOROUS
Clan"gor*ous, a. Etym: [LL. clangorosus.]

Defn: Making a clangor; having a ringing, metallic sound.

CLANGOUS
Clan"gous, a.

Defn: Making a clang, or a ringing metallic sound. [Obs.]

CLANJAMFRIE
Clan*jam"frie, n.

Defn: Same as Clamjamphrie. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

CLANK
Clank, n. Etym: [Akin to clink, and of imitative origin; cf. G. klang
sound, D. klank. Cf. Clang.]

Defn: A sharp, brief, ringing sound, made by a collision of metallic
or other sonorous bodies; -- usually expressing a duller or less
resounding sound than clang, and a deeper and stronger sound than
clink.
But not in chains to pine, His spirit withered with tyeur clank.
Byron.

CLANK
Clank, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clanked; p. pr. & vb. n. Clanking.]

Defn: To cause to sound with a clank; as, the prisoners clank their
chains.

CLANK
Clank, v. i.

Defn: To sound with a clank.

CLANKLESS
Clank"less, a.

Defn: Without a clank. Byreon.

CLAN-NA-GAEL
Clan"-na-Gael", n. [Ir., clan of the Gaels.]

Defn: A secret society of Irish Fenians founded in Philadelphia in
1881.

CLANNISH
Clan"nish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a clan; closely united, like a clan;
disposed to associate only with one's clan or clique; actuated by the
traditions, prejudices, habits, etc., of a clan.
 -- Clan"nish*ly, adv.
 -- Clan"nish*ness, n.

CLANSHIP
Clan"ship, n.

Defn: A state of being united togheter as in a clan; an association
under a chieftain.

CLANSMAN
Clans"man, n.; pl. Clansmen.

Defn: One belonging to the same clan with another.

CLAP
Clap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Clapping.] Etym:
[AS. clappan; akin to Icel. & Sw. klappa, D, klappen, to clap, prate,
G. klaffen, v.i., to split open, yelp, klopfen, v.t. & i., to knock.]

1. To strike; to slap; to strike, or strike together, with a quick
motion, so, as to make a sharp noise; as, to clap one's hands; a
clapping of wings.
Then like a bird it sits and sings, And whets and claps its silver
wings. Marvell.

2. To thrust, drive, put, or close, in a hasty or abrupt manner; --
often followed by to, into, on, or upon.
He had just time to get in and clap to the door. Locke
Clap an extinguaisher upon your irony. Lamb.

3. To manifest approbation of, by striking the hands together; to
applaud; as, to clap a performance. To clap hands. (a) To pledge
faith by joining hands. [Obs.] Shak.
(b) To express contempt or derision. [Obs.] Lam. ii. 15. To clap hold
of, to seize roughly or quickly.
 -- To clap up. (a) To imprison hastily or without due formality. (b)
To make or contrive hastily. [Obs.] "Was ever match clapped up so
suddenly" Shak.

CLAP
Clap, v. i.

1. To knock, as at a door. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To strike the hands together in applause.
Their ladies bid them clap. Shak.

3. To come together suddenly with noise.
The doors around me clapped. Dryden.

4. To enter with alacrity and briskness; -- with to or into. [Obs.]
"Shall we clap into it roundly, without . . . saying we are hoarse"
Shak.

5. To talk noisily; to chatter loudly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLAP
Clap, n.

1. A loud noise made by sudden collision; a bang. "Give the door such
a clap, as you go out, as will shake the whole room." Swift.

2. A burst of sound; a sudden explosion.
Horrible claps of thunder. Hakewill.

3. A single, sudden act or motion; a stroke; a blow.
What, fifty of my followers at a clap! Shak.

4. A striking of hands to express approbation.
Unextrected claps or hisses. Addison.

5. Noisy talk; chatter. [Obs.] Chaucer.

6. (Falconry)

Defn: The nether part of the beak of a hawk. Clap dish. See Clack
dish, under Clack, n.
 -- Clap net, a net for taking birds, made to close or clap together.

CLAP
Clap, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. clapoir.]

Defn: Gonorrhea.

CLAPBOARD
Clap"board, n.

1. A narrow board, thicker at one edge than at the other; -- used for
weatherboarding the outside of houses. [U. S.]

2. A stave for a cask. [Eng.] Halliwell.

CLAPBOARD
Clap"board, v. t.

Defn: To cover with clapboards; as, to clapboard the sides of a
house. [U. S.] Bartlett.

CLAPBREAD; CLAPCAKE
Clap"bread`, Clap"cake`, n.

Defn: Oatmeal cake or bread clapped or beaten till it is thin. [Obs.]
Halliwell.

CLAPE
Clape, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird; the flicker.

CLAPPER
Clap"per, n.

1. A person who claps.

2. That which strikes or claps, as the tongue of a bell, or the piece
of wood that strikes a mill hopper, etc. See Illust. of Bell. Clapper
rail (Zoöl.), an Americam species of rail (Rallus scepitans).

CLAPPER
Clap"per, n. Etym: [F. clapier.]

Defn: A rabbit burrow. [Obs.]

CLAPPERCLAW
Clap"per*claw, v. t. Etym: [Clap + claw.]

1. To fight and scratch. C. Smart.

2. To abuse with the tongue; to revile; to scold.

CLAPS
Claps, v. t.

Defn: Variant of Clasp [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLAPTRAP
Clap"trap`, n.

1. A contrivance for clapping in theaters. [Obs.]

2. A trick or device to gain applause; humbug.

CLAPTRAP
Clap"trap`, a.

Defn: Contrived for the purpose of making a show, or gaining
applause; deceptive; unreal.

CLAQUE
Claque, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A collection of persons employed to applaud at a theatrical
exhibition.

CLAQUEUR
Cla`queur", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: One of the claque employed to applaud at a theater.

CLARE
Clare, n.

Defn: A nun of the order of St.Clare.

CLARENCE
Clar"ence, n.

Defn: A close four-wheeled carriage, with one seat inside, and a seat
for the driver.

CLARENCEUX; CLARENCIEUX
Clar"en*ceux, Clar"en*cieux, n. (Her.)

Defn: See King-at-arms.

CLARENDON
Clar"en*don, n.

Defn: A style of type having a narrow and heave face. It is made in
all sizes.

Note: This line is in nonpareil Clarendon.

CLARE-OBSCURE
Clare"-ob*scure", n. Etym: [L. clarus clear + obscurus obscure; cf.
F. clair-obscur. Cf. Chiaroscuro.] (Painting)

Defn: See Chiaroscuro.

CLARET
Clar"et, n. Etym: [OE. claret, clare, clarry, OF. claret, clar, fr.
cler, F. clair, clear, fr. L. clarus clear. See Clear.]

Defn: The name firat given in England to the red wines of M

CLARIBELLA
Clar`i*bel"la, n. Etym: [NL., from L. clarus clear + bellus fine.]
(Mus.)

Defn: A soft, sweet stop, or set of open wood pipes in an organ.

CLARICHORD
Clar"i*chord, n. Etym: [F. clatocorde, fr.L. clarus clear + chorda
string. See Chord.]

Defn: A musical instrument, formerly in use, in form of a spinet; --
called also manichord and clavichord.

CLARIFICATION
Clar`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. clarification, L. clarificatio
glorification.]

1. The act or process of making clear or transparent, by freeing
visible impurities; as, the clarification of wine.

2. The act of freeing from obscurities.
The clarification of men's ideas. Whewell.

CLARIFIER
Clar"i*fi`er, n.

1. That which clarifies.

2. A vessel in which the process of clarification is conducted; as,
the clarifier in sugar works. Ure.

CLARIFY
Clar"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clarified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Clarifying.] Etym: [F. clarifier, from L. clarificare; clarus clear +
facere to make. See Clear, and Fact.]

1. To make clear or bright by freeing from feculent matter; to
defecate; to fine; -- said of liquids, as wine or sirup. "Boiled and
clarified." Ure.

2. To make clear; to free from obscurities; to brighten or
illuminate.
To clarify his reason, and to rectify his will. South.

3. To glorify. [Obs.]
Fadir, clarifie thi name. Wyclif (John ii. 28).

CLARIFY
Clar"i*fy, v. i.

1. To grow or become clear or transparent; to become free from
feculent impurities, as wine or other liquid under clarification.

2. To grow clear or bright; to clear up.
Whosoever hath his mind fraught with many thoughts, his wits and
understanding do clarify and break up in the discoursing with
another. Bacon.

CLARIGATE
Clar"i*gate, v. i. Etym: [L. clarigare]

Defn: To declare war with certain ceremonies. [Obs.] Holland.

CLARINET
Clar"i*net`, n. Etym: [F. clarinette, dim. of clarine, from L.
clarus. See Clear, and cf. Clarion.] (Mus.)

Defn: A wind instrument, blown by a single reed, of richer and fuller
tone than the oboe, which has a double reed. It is the leading
instrument in a military band.

Note: [Often improperly called clarionet.]

CLARINO
Cla*ri"no, n. Etym: [It. a trumpet.] (Mus.)

Defn: A reed stop in an organ.

CLARION
Clar"i*on, n. Etym: [OE. clarioun, OF. clarion, F. clairon, LL.
clario, claro; so called from its clear tone, fr. L. clarus clear.
See Clear.]

Defn: A kind of trumpet, whose note is clear and shrill.
He sounds his imperial clarion along the whole line of battle. E.
Everett.

CLARIONET
Clar`i*o*net", n. Etym: [See Clarion, Clarinet.] (Mus.)

Defn: See Clarinet.

CLARISONUS
Cla*ris"o*nus, a. Etym: [L. clarisonus; clarus + sonus.]

Defn: Having a clear sound. [Obs.] Ash.

CLARITUDE
Clar"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. claritudo, fr. clarus clear.]

Defn: Clearness; splendor. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

CLARITY
Clar"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. claritas, fr. clarus clear: cf. F. clarté.]

Defn: Clearness; brightness; splendor.
Floods, in whose more than crystal clarity, Innumerable virgin graces
row. Beaumont.

CLARO-OBSCURO
Cla"ro-ob*scu"ro, n.

Defn: See Chiaroscuro.

CLARRE
Clar`ré", n. Etym: [See Claret.]

Defn: Wine with a mixture of honey and species. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLART
Clart, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Armor. kalar mud, mire, kalara to dirt, Sw.
lort mud.]

Defn: To daub, smear, or spread, as with mud, etc. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

CLARTY
Clart"y, a.

Defn: Sticky and foul; muddy; filthy; dirty. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

CLARY
Clar"y, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Clarion.]

Defn: To make a loud or shrill noise. [Obs.] Golding.

CLARY
Cla"ry, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. sclarea, scarlea, D. & G. scharlei, F.
sclarée.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Salvia sclarea) of the Sage family, used in flavoring
soups. Clary water, a composition of clary flowers with brandy, etc.,
formerly used as a cardiac.

CLASH
Clash, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Clashing.] Etym:
[Of imitative origin; cf. G. klatschen, Prov. G. kleschen, D.
kletsen, Dan. klaske, E. clack.]

1. To make a noise by striking against something; to dash noisily
together.

2. To meet in opposition; to act in a contrary direction; to come
onto collision; to interfere.
However some of his interests might clash with those of the chief
adjacent colony. Palfrey.

CLASH
Clash, v. t.

Defn: To strike noisily against or together.

CLASH
Clash n.

1. A loud noise resulting from collision; a noisy collision of
bodies; a collision.
The roll of cannon and clash of arms. Tennyson.

2. Opposition; contradiction; as between differing or contending
interests, views, purposes, etc.
Clashes between popes and kings. Denham.

CLASH GEAR
Clash gear. (Mach.)

Defn: A change-speed gear in which the gears are changed by sliding
endwise.

CLASHINGLY
Clash"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With clashing.

CLASP
Clasp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clasped; p. pr. & vb. n. Clasping] Etym:
[OE. claspen, clapsen, prob. akin to E. clap.]

1. To shut or fasten together with, or as with, a clasp; to shut or
fasten (a clasp, or that which fastens with a clasp).

2. To inclose and hold in the hand or with the arms; to grasp; to
embrace.

3. To surround and cling to; to entwine about. "Clasping ivy."
Milton.

CLASP
Clasp, n.

1. An adjustable catch, bent plate, or hook, for holding together two
objects or the parts of anything, as the ends of a belt, the covers
of a book, etc.

2. A close embrace; a throwing of the arms around; a grasping, as
with the hand. Clasp knife, a large knife, the blade of which folds
or shuts into the handle.
 -- Clasp lock, a lock which closes or secures itself by means of a
spring.

CLASPER
Clasp"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, clasps, as a tendril. "The claspers of
vines." Derham.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) One of a pair of organs used by the male for grasping the female
among many of the Crustacea.
(b) One of a pair of male copulatory organs, developed on the
anterior side of the ventral fins of sharks and other elasmobranchs.
See Illust. of Chimæra.

CLASPERED
Clasp"ered, a.

Defn: Furnished with tendrils.

CLASS
Class, n. Etym: [F. classe, fr. L. classis class, collection, fleet;
akin to Gr. claim, haul.]

1. A group of individuals ranked together as possessing common
characteristics; as, the different classes of society; the educated
class; the lower classes.

2. A number of students in a school or college, of the same standing,
or pursuing the same studies.

3. A comprehensive division of animate or inanimate objects, grouped
together on account of their common characteristics, in any
classification in natural science, and subdivided into orders,
families, tribes, gemera, etc.

4. A set; a kind or description, species or variety.
She had lost one class energies. Macaulay.

5. (Methodist Church)

Defn: One of the sections into which a church or congregation is
divided, and which is under the supervision of a class leader. Class
of a curve (Math.), the kind of a curve as expressed by the number of
tangents that can be drawn from any point to the curve. A circle is
of the second class.
 -- Class meeting (Methodist Church), a meeting of a class under the
charge of a class leader, for counsel and relegious instruction.

CLASS
Class, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Classed; p. pr. & vb. n. Classing.] Etym:
[Cf. F. classer. See Class, n.]

1. To arrange in classes; to classify or refer to some class; as, to
class words or passages.

Note: In scientific arrangement, to classify is used instead of to
class. Dana.

2. To divide into classes, as students; to form into, or place in, a
class or classes.

CLASS
Class, v. i.

Defn: To grouped or classed.
The genus or famiky under which it classes. Tatham.

CLASS DAY
Class day.

Defn: In American colleges and universities, a day of the
commencement season on which the senior class celebrates the
completion of its course by exercises conducted by the members, such
as the reading of the class histories and poem, the delivery of the
class oration, the planting of the class ivy, etc.

CLASSIBLE
Class"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being classed.

CLASSIC; CLASSICAL
Clas"sic, Clas"sic*al, a. Etym: [L. classicus relating to the classes
of the Roman people, and especially to the frist class; hence, of the
first rank, superior, from classis class: cf. F. classique. See
Class, n.]

1. Of or relating to the first class or rank, especially in
literature or art.
Give, as thy last memorial to the age, One classic drama, and reform
the stage. Byron.
Mr. Greaves may justly be reckoned a classical author on this subject
[Roman weights and coins]. Arbuthnot.

2. Of or pertaining to the ancient Greeks and Romans, esp. to Greek
or Roman authors of the highest rank, or of the period when their
best literature was produced; of or pertaining to places inhabited by
the ancient Greeks and Romans, or rendered famous by their deeds.
Though throned midst Latium's classic plains. Mrs. Hemans.
The epithet classical, as applied to ancient authors, is determined
less by the purity of their style than by the period at which they
wrote. Brande & C.
He [Atterbury] directed the classical studies of the undergraduates
of his college. Macaulay.

3. Conforming to the best authority in literature and art; chaste;
pure; refined; as, a classical style.
Classical, provincial, and national synods. Macaulay.
Classicals orders. (Arch.) See under Order.

CLASSIC
Clas"sic, n.

1. A work of acknowledged excellence and authrity, or its author; --
originally used of Greek and Latin works or authors, but now applied
to authors and works of a like character in any language.
In is once raised him to the rank of a legitimate English classic.
Macaulay.

2. One learned in the literature of Greece and Rome, or a student of
classical literature.

CLASSICALISM
Clas"sic*al*ism, n.

1. A classical idiom, style, or expression; a classicism.

2. Adherence to what are supposed or assumed to be the classical
canons of art.

CLASSICALIST
Clas"sic*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who adheres to what he thinks the classical canons of art.
Ruskin.

CLASSICALITY; CLASSICALNESS
Clas`si*cal"i*ty, Clas"sic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being classical.

CLASSICALLY
Clas"sic*al*ly, adv.

1. In a classical manner; according to the manner of classical
authors.

2. In the manner of classes; according to a regular order of classes
or sets.

CLASSICISM
Clas"si*cism, n.

Defn: A classic idiom or expression; a classicalism. C. Kingsley.

CLASSICIST
Clas"si*cist, n.

Defn: One learned in the classics; an advocate for the classics.

CLASSIFIABLE
Clas"si*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being classified.

CLASSIFIC
Clas*sif"ic, a.

Defn: Characterizing a class or classes; relating to classification.

CLASSIFICATION
Clas`si*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. classification.]

Defn: The act of forming into a class or classes; a distibution into
groups, as classes, orders, families, etc., according to some common
relations or affinities. Artificial classification. (Science) See
under Artifitial.

CLASSIFICATORY
Clas"si*fi*ca`to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to classification; admitting of classification. "A
classificatory system." Earle.

CLASSIFIER
Clas"si*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who classifies.

CLASSIFY
Clas"si*fy, v. t. [imp. & pp. Classified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Classifying.] Etym: [L. classis class +

Defn: To distribute into classes; to arrange according to a system;
to arrnge in sets according to some method founded on common
properties or characters.

Syn.
 -- To arrange; distibute; rank.

CLASSIS
Clas"sis, n.; pl. Classes. Etym: [L. See Class, n.]

1. A class or order; sort; kind. [Obs.]
His opinion of that classis of men. Clarendon.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: An ecclesiastical body or judicat

CLASSMAN
Class"man, n.; pl. Classmen(#).

1. A member of a class; a classmate.

2. A candidate for graduation in arts who is placed in an honor
class, as opposed to a passman, who is not classified. [Oxford, Eng.]

CLASSMATE
Class"mate`, n.

Defn: One who is in the same class with another, as at school or
college.

CLASTIC
Clas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Pertaining to what may be taken apart; as, clastic anatomy (of
models).

2. (Min.)

Defn: Fragmental; made up of brokas, sandstone is a clastic rock.

CLATCH
Clatch, n. [Cf. Scot. clatch a slap, the noise caused by the
collision of soft bodies; prob. of imitative origin.] (Scot. & Dial.
Eng.)

1. A soft or sloppy lump or mass; as, to throw a clatch of mud.

2.  Anything put together or made in a careless or slipshod way;
hence, a sluttish or slipshod woman.

CLATCH
Clatch, v. t. & i.

Defn: To daub or smear, as with lime; to make or finish in a slipshod
way. [Scot.]

CLATHRATE
Clath"rate, a. Etym: [L. clathri latti

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a lattice; cancellate. Gray.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the surface marked with raised lines resembling a
lattice, as many shells.

CLATTER
Clat"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clattered; p. pr. & vb. n. Clattering.]
Etym: [AS. cla a rattle, akin to D. klateren to rattle. Cf. Clack.]

1. To make a rattling sound by striking hard bodies together; to make
a succession of abrupt, rattling sounds.
Clattering loud with clamk. Longfellow.

2. To talk fast and noisily; to rattle with the tongue.
I see thou dost but clatter. Spenser.

CLATTER
Clat"ter, v. t.

Defn: To make a rattling noise with.
You clatter still your brazen kettle. Swift.

CLATTER
Clat"ter, n.

1. A rattling noise, esp. that made by the collision of hard bodies;
also, any loud, abrupt sound; a repetition of abrupt sounds.
The goose let fall a golden egg With cackle and with clatter.
Tennyson.

2. Commotion; disturbance. "Those mighty feats which made such a
clatter in story." Barrow.

3. Rapid, noisy talk; babble; chatter. "Hold still thy clatter."
Towneley Myst. (15 th Cent. ).
Throw by your clatter And handle the matter. B. Jonson

CLATTERER
Clat"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who clatters.

CLATTERINGLY
Clat"ter*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With clattering.

CLAUDE LORRAINE GLASS
Claude" Lor*raine" glass`. Etym: [Its name is supposed to be derived
from the similarity of the effects it gives to those of a picture by
Claude Lorrain (often written Lorraine).]

Defn: A slightly convex mirror, commonly of black glass, used as a
toy for viewing the reflected landscape.

CLAUDENT
Clau"dent, a. Etym: [L. claudens, p. pr. of claudere to shut.]

Defn: Shutting; confining; drawing together; as, a claudent muscle.
[R.] Jonson

CLAUDICANT
Clau"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. claudicans, p. pr. of claudicare to limp,
fr. claudus lame.]

Defn: Limping. [R.]

CLAUDICATION
Clau`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. claudicatio.]

Defn: A halting or limping. [R.] Tatler.

CLAUSE
Clause, n. Etym: [F. clause, LL. clausa, equiv. to L. clausula
clause, prop., close of claudere to shut, to end. See Close.]

1. A separate portion of a written paper, paragraph, or sentence; an
article, stipulation, or proviso, in a legal document.
The usual attestation clause to a will. Bouvier.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A subordinate portion or a subdivision of a sentence containing
a subject and its predicate.

CLAUSE
Clause, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Letters clause or close, under Letter.

CLAUSTRAL
Claus"tral, a. Etym: [F., fr. LL. claustralis, fr. L. claustrum. See
Cloister.]

Defn: Cloistral. Ayliffe

CLAUSTRUM
Claus"trum, n.; pl. Claustra. Etym: [L., a bolt or bar.] (Anat.)

Defn: A thin lamina of gray matter in each cerebral hemiphere of the
brain of man.
 -- Claus"tral, a.

CLAUSULAR
Clau"su*lar, a. Etym: [From L. clausula. See Clause, n.]

Defn: Consisting of, or having, clauses. Smart.

CLAUSURE
Clau"sure, n. Etym: [L. clausura. See Closure.]

Defn: The act of shutting up or confining; confinement. [R.] Geddes.

CLAVATE; CLAVATED
Cla"vate, Cla"va*ted, a. Etym: [L. clava club.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Club-shaped; having the form of a club; growing gradually
thicker toward the top.

Note: [See Illust. of Antennae.]

CLAVE
Clave,

Defn: imp. of Cleave. [Obs.]

CLAVECIN
Clav"e*cin, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The harpsichord.

CLAVEL
Cla"vel, n.

Defn: See Clevis.

CLAVELLATE
Clav"el*late, a.

Defn: See Clavate.

CLAVELLATED
Clav"el*la`ted, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. cineres clavelatti ashes of burnt
lees or dregs of wine, F. clavel an inferior sort of soda, E.
clavate.] (Old Chem.)

Defn: Said of potash, probably in reference to its having been
obtained from billets of wood by burning. [Obs.]

CLAVER
Clav"er, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Clover. Holland.

CLAVER
Clav"er, n.

Defn: Frivolous or nonsensical talk; prattle; chattering. [Scot. &
North of Eng.]
Emmy found herself entirely at a loss in the midst of their clavers.
Thackeray.

CLAVICHORD
Clav"i*chord, n. Etym: [F. clavicorde, fr. L. clavis key + chorda
string.] (Mus.)

Defn: A keyed stringed instrument, now superseded by the pianoforte.
See Clarichord.

CLAVICLE
Clav"i*cle, n. Etym: [F. clavicule, fr. L. clavicula a little key,
tendril, dim. of clavis key, akin to claudere to shut. See Close, and
cf. Clef.] (Anat.)

Defn: The collar bone, which is joined at one end to the scapula, or
shoulder blade, and at the other to the sternum, or breastbone. In
man each clavicle is shaped like the letter

CLAVICORN
Clav"i*corn, a. Etym: [Cf. F. clavicorne.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having club-shaped antennæ. See Antennæ -- n.

Defn: One of the Clavicornes.

CLAVICORNES
Clav`i*cor"nes, n. pl. Etym: [NL.; Fr. L. clava club + cornu horn.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of beetles having club-shaped antennæ.

CLAVICULAR
Cla*vic"u*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. claviculaire. See Clavicle.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the clavicle.

CLAVIER
Cla"vi*er ( F. ), n. Etym: [F., fr. L. clavis key.] (Mus.)

Defn: The keyboard of an organ, pianoforte, or harmonium.

Note: Clavier (

CLAVIFORM
Clav"i*form, a. Etym: [L. clava club + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Club-shaped; clavate. Craig.

CLAVIGER
Clav"i*ger, n. Etym: [L., fr. clavis key + gerere to carry.]

Defn: One who carries the keys of any place.

CLAVIGER
Clav"i*ger, n. Etym: [L., fr. clava club + gerere to carry.]

Defn: One who carries a club; a club bearer.

CLAVIGEROUS
Cla*vig"er*ous, a.

Defn: Bearing a club or a key.

CLAVIS
Cla"vis, n.; pl. L. Claves, E. Clavises. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A key; a glossary.

CLAVUS
Cla"vus, n. Etym: [L., a nail.]

Defn: A callous growth, esp. one the foot; a corn.

CLAVY
Cla"vy, n.; pl. Clavies. Etym: [Cf. F. claveau centerpiece of an
arch.] (Arch.)

Defn: A mantelpiece.

CLAW
Claw, n. Etym: [AS. clawu, cla, cleó; akin to D. klaauw, G. Klaue,
Icel. klo, SW. & Dan. klo, and perh. to E. clew.]

1. A sharp, hooked nail, as of a beast or bird.

2. The whole foot of an animal armed with hooked nails; the pinchers
of a lobster, crab, etc.

3. Anything resembling the claw of an animal, as the curved and
forked end of a hammer for drawing nails.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: A slender appendage or process, formed like a claw, as the base
of petals of the pink. Gray. Claw hammer, a hammer with one end of
the metallic head cleft for use in extracting nails, etc.
 -- Claw hammer coat, a dress coat of the swallowtail pattern.
[Slang] -- Claw sickness, foot rot, a disease affecting sheep.

CLAW
Claw, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clawed; p. pr. & vb. n. Clawing.] Etym:
[AS. clawan. See Claw, n.]

1. To pull, tear, or scratch with, or as with, claws or nails.

2. To relieve from some uneasy sensation, as by scratching; to
tickle; hence, to flatter; to court. [Obs.]
Rich men they claw, soothe up, and flatter; the poor they contemn and
despise. Holland.

3. To rail at; to scold. [Obs.]
In the aforesaid preamble, the king fairly claweth the great
monasteries, wherein, saith he, religion, thanks be to God, is right
well kept and observed; though he claweth them soon after in another
acceptation. T. Fuller
Claw me, claw thee, stand by me and I will stand by you; -- an old
proverb. Tyndale. To claw away, to scold or revile. "The jade Fortune
is to be clawed away for it, if you should lose it." L'Estrange. To
claw (one) on the back, to tickle; to express approbation. (Obs.)
Chaucer.
 -- To claw (one) on the gall, to find falt with; to vex. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

CLAW
Claw, v. i.

Defn: To scrape, scratch, or dig with a claw, or with the hand as a
claw. "Clawing [in ash barrels] for bits of coal." W. D. Howells. To
claw off (Naut.), to turn to windward and beat, to prevent falling on
a lee shore.

CLAWBACK
Claw"back`, n.

Defn: A flatterer or sycophant. [Obs.] "Take heed of these
clawbacks." Latimer.

CLAWBACK
Claw"back`, a.

Defn: Flattering; sycophantic. [Obs.]
Like a clawback parasite. Bp. Hall.

CLAWBACK
Claw"back`, v. t.

Defn: To flatter. [Obs.] Warner.

CLAWED
Clawed, a.

Defn: Furnished with claws. N. Grew.

CLAWLESS
Claw"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of claws.

CLAY
Clay, n. Etym: [AS. clæg; akin to LG. klei, D. klei, and perh. to AS.
clam clay, L. glus, gluten glue, Gr. glue. Cf. Clog.]

1. A soft earth, which is plastuc, or may be molded with the hands,
consisting of hydrous silicate of alumunium. It is the result of the
wearing down and decomposition, in part, of rocks containing
aluminous minerals, as granite. Lime, magnesia, oxide of iron, and
other ingredients, are often present as impurities.

2. (Poetry & Script.)

Defn: Earth in general, as representing the elementary particles of
the human body; hence, the human body as formed from such particles.
I also am formed out of the clay. Job xxxiii. 6.
The earth is covered thick with other clay, Which her own clay shall
cover. Byron.
Bowlder clay. See under Bowlder.
 -- Brick clay, the common clay, containing some iron, and therefore
turning red when burned.
 -- Clay cold, cold as clay or earth; lifeless; inanimate.
 -- Clay ironstone, an ore of iron consisting of the oxide or
carbonate of iron mixed with clay or sand.
 -- Clay marl, a whitish, smooth, chalky clay.
 -- Clay mill, a mill for mixing and tempering clay; a pug mill.
 -- Clay pit, a pit where clay is dug.
 -- Clay slate (Min.), argillaceous schist; argillite.
 -- Fatty clays, clays having a greasy feel; they are chemical
compounds of water, silica, and aluminia, as halloysite, bole, etc.
 -- Fire clay , a variety of clay, entirely free from lime, iron, or
an alkali, and therefore infusible, and used for fire brick.
 -- Porcelain clay, a very pure variety, formed directly from the
decomposition of feldspar, and often called kaolin.
 -- Potter's clay, a tolerably pure kind, free from iron.

CLAY
Clay, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Claying.]

1. To cover or manure with clay.

2. To clarify by filtering through clay, as sugar.

CLAY-BRAINED
Clay"-brained`, a.

Defn: Stupid. [Obs.] Shak.

CLAYES
Clayes, n. pl. Etym: [F. claie hurdle.] (Fort.)

Defn: Wattles, or hurdles, made with stakes interwoven with osiers,
to cover lodgments. [Obs.]

CLAYEY
Clay"ey, a.

Defn: Consisting of clay; abounding with clay; partaking of clay;
like clay.

CLAYISH
Clay"ish, a.

Defn: Partaking of the nature of clay, or containing particles of it.

CLAYMORE
Clay"more`, n. Etym: [Gael. claidheamhmor a broadsword; Gael.
claidheamh sword + mor great, large. Cf. Claymore.]

Defn: A large two-handed sword used formerly by the Scottish
Highlanders.

CLAYTONIA
Clay*to"ni*a, n. Etym: [Named after Dr.John Clayton, an American
botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: An American genus of perennial herbs with delicate blossoms; --
sometimes called spring beauty.

CLEADING
Clead"ing, n. Etym: [Scot., clothing. See Cloth.]

1. A jacket or outer covering of wood, etc., to prevent radiation of
heat, as from the boiler, cylinder. etc., of a steam engine.

2. The planking or boarding of a shaft, cofferdam, etc.

CLEAN
Clean, a. [Compar. Cleaner (; superl. Cleanest.] Etym: [OE. clene,
AS. cl; akin to OHG. chleini pure, neat, graceful, small, G. klein
small, and perh. to W. glan clean, pure, bright; all perh. from a
primitive, meaning bright, shining. Cf. Glair.]

1. Free from dirt or filth; as, clean clothes.

2. Free from that which is useless or injurious; without defects; as,
clean land; clean timber.

3. Free from awkwardness; not bungling; adroit; dexterous; as, aclean
trick; a clean leap over a fence.

4. Free from errors and vulgarisms; as, a clean style.

5. Free from restraint or neglect; complete; entire.
When ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not make clean
riddance of corners of thy field. Le

6. Free from moral defilement; sinless; pure.
Create in me a clean heart, O God. Ps. li. 10
That I am whole, and clean, and meet for Heaven Tennyson.

7. (Script.)

Defn: Free from ceremonial defilement.

8. Free from that which is corrupting to the morals; pure in tone;
healthy. "Lothair is clean." F. Harrison.

9. Well-proportioned; shapely; as, clean limbs. A clean bill of
health, a certificate from the proper authrity that a ship is free
from infection.
 -- Clean breach. See under Breach, n., 4.
 -- To make a clean breast. See under Breast.

CLEAN
Clean, adv.

1. Without limitation or remainder; quite; perfectly; wholly;
entirely. "Domestic broils clean overblown." Shak. "Clean contrary."
Milton.
All the people were passed clean over Jordan. Josh. iii. 17.

2. Without miscarriage; not bunglingly; dexterously. [Obs.] "Pope
came off clean with Homer." Henley.

CLEAN
Clean, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cleaned; p. pr. & vb. n. Cleaning.] Etym:
[See Clean, a., and cf. Cleanse.]

Defn: To render clean; to free from whatever is foul, offensive, or
extraneous; to purify; to cleanse. To clean out, to exhaust; to
empty; to get away from (one) all his money. [Colloq.] De Quincey.

CLEAN-CUT
Clean"-cut`, a.

Defn: See Clear-cut.

CLEANER
Clean"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, cleans.

CLEANING
Clean"ing, n.

1. The act of making clean.

2. The afterbirth of cows, ewes, etc. Gardner.

CLEANLILY
Clean"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cleanly manner.

CLEAN-LIMBED
Clean"-limbed`, a.

Defn: With well-proportioned, unblemished limbs; as, a clean-limbed
young fellow. Dickens.

CLEANLINESS
Clean"li*ness, n. Etym: [From Cleanly.]

Defn: State of being cleanly; neatness of person or dress.
Cleanliness from head to heel. Swift.

CLEANLY
Clean"ly, a. [Compar. Cleanlier; superl. Cleanliest.] Etym: [From
Clean.]

1. Habitually clean; pure; innocent. "Cleanly joys." Glanvill.
Some plain but cleanly country maid. Dryden.
Displays her cleanly platter on the board. Goldsmith.

2. Cleansing; fitted to remove moisture; dirt, etc. [Obs.] "With
cleanly powder dry their hair." Prior.

3. Adroit; skillful; dexterous; artful. [Obs.]
Through his fine handling and his cleanly play. Spenser.

CLEANLY
Clean"ly, adv.

1. In a clean manner; neatly.
He was very cleanly dressed. Dickens.

2. Innocently; without stain. Shak.

3. Adroitly; dexterously. Middleton.

CLEANNESS
Clean"ness, n. Etym: [AS. cl. See Clean.]

1. The state or quality of being clean.

2. Purity of life or language; freedom from licentious courses.
Chaucer.

CLEANSABLE
Cleans"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being cleansed. Sherwood.

CLEANSE
Cleanse, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cleansed; p. pr. & vb. n. Cleansing.]
Etym: [AS. clænsian, fr. clæne clean. See Clean.]

Defn: To render clean; to free from fith, pollution, infection,
guilt, etc.; to clean.
If we walk in the light . . . the blood of Jesus Christ his son
cleanseth us from all sin. 1 John i. 7.
Can'st thou not minister to a mind diseased, And with some sweet
oblivious antidote Cleanse the suffed bosom of that perilous stuff
Which weighs upon the heart Shak.

CLEANSER
Cleans"er, n. Etym: [AS. cl.]

Defn: One who, or that which, cleanses; a detergent. Arbuthnot.

CLEAN-TIMBERED
Clean"-tim`bered, a.

Defn: Well-propotioned; symmetrical. [Poetic] Shak.

CLEAR
Clear, a. [Compar. Clearer; superl. Clearest.] Etym: [OE. cler,
cleer, OF. cler, F. clair, fr.L. clarus, clear, broght, loud,
distinct, renownwd; perh. akin to L. clamare to call, E. claim. Cf.
Chanticleer, Clairvoyant, Claret, Clarufy.]

1. Free from opaqueness; transparent; bright; light; luminous;
unclouded.
The stream is so transparent, pure, and clear. Denham.
Fair as the moon, clear as the sun. Canticles vi. 10.

2. Free from ambiquity or indistinctness; lucid; perspicuous; plain;
evident; manifest; indubitable.
One truth is clear; whatever is, is right. Pop

3. Able to perceive clearly; keen; acute; penetrating;
discriminating; as, a clear intellect; a clear head.
Mother of science! now I feel thy power Within me clear, not only to
discern Things in their causes, but to trace the ways Of highest
agents. Milton.

4. Not clouded with passion; serene; cheerful.
With a countenance as clear As friendship wears at feasts. Shak.

5. Easily or distinctly heard; audible; canorous.
Hark! the numbers soft and clear Gently steal upon the ear. Pope.

6. Without mixture; entirely pure; as, clear sand.

7. Without defect or blemish, such as freckles or knots; as, a clear
complexion; clear lumber.

8. Free from guilt or stain; unblemished.
Statesman, yet friend to truth! in soul sincere, In action faithful,
and in honor clear. Pope.

9. Without diminution; in full; net; as, clear profit.
I often wished that I had clear, For life, six hundred pounds a-year.
Swift
.

10. Free from impediment or obstruction; unobstructed; as, a clear
view; to keep clear of debt.
My companion . . . left the way clear for him. Addison.

11. Free from embarrassment; detention, etc.
The cruel corporal whispered in my ear, Five pounds, if rightly
tipped, would set me clear. Gay.
Clear breach. See under Breach, n., 4.
 -- Clear days (Law.), days reckoned from one day to another,
excluding both the first and last day; as, from Sunday to Sunday
there are six clear days.
 -- Clear stuff, boards, planks, etc., free from knots.

Syn.
 -- Manifest; pure; unmixed; pellucid; transparent; luminous;
obvious; visible; plain; evident; apparent; distinct; perspicuous.
See Manifest.

CLEAR
Clear, n. (Carp.)

Defn: Full extent; distance between extreme limits; especially; the
distance between the nearest surfaces of two bodies, or the space
between walls; as, a room ten feet square in the clear.

CLEAR
Clear, adv.

1. In a clear manner; plainly.
Now clear I understand What oft . . . thoughts have searched in vain.
Milton.

2. Without limitation; wholly; quite; entirely; as, to cut a piece
clear off.

CLEAR
Clear, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cleared; p. pr. & vb. n. Clearing.]

1. To render bright, transparent, or undimmed; to free from clouds.
He sweeps the skies and clears the cloudy north. Dryden.

2. To free from impurities; to clarify; to cleanse.

3. To free from obscurity or ambiguity; to relive of perplexity; to
make perspicuous.
Many knotty points there are Which all discuss, but few can clear.
Prior.

4. To render more quick or acute, as the understanding; to make
perspicacious.
Our common prints would clear up their understandings. Addison

5. To free from impediment or incumbrance, from defilement, or from
anything injurious, useless, or offensive; as, to clear land of trees
or brushwood, or from stones; to clear the sight or the voice; to
clear one's self from debt; -- often used with of, off, away, or out.
Clear your mind of cant. Dr. Johnson.
A statue lies hid in a block of marble; and the art of the statuary
only clears away the superfluous matter. Addison.

6. To free from the imputation of guilt; to justify, vindicate, or
acquit; -- often used with from before the thing imputed.
I . . . am sure he will clear me from partiality. Dryden.
How! wouldst thou clear rebellion Addison.

7. To leap or pass by, or over, without touching or fallure; as, to
clear a hedge; to clear a reef.

8. To gain without deduction; to net.
The profit which she cleared on the cargo. Macaulay.
To clear a ship at the customhouse, to exhibit the documents required
by law, give bonds, or perform other acts requisite, and procure a
permission to sail, and such papers as the law requires.
 -- To clear a ship for action, or To clear for action (Naut.), to
remove incumbrances from the decks, and prepare for an engagement.
 -- To clear the land (Naut.), to gain such a distance from shore as
to have sea room, and be out of danger from the land.
 -- To clear hawse (Naut.), to disentangle the cables when twisted.
 -- To clear up, to explain; to dispel, as doubts, cares or fears.

CLEAR
Clear, v. i.

1. To become free from clouds or fog; to become fair; -- often
fallowed by up, off, or away.
So foul a sky clears without a strom. Shak.
Advise him to stay till the weather clears up. Swift.

2. To disengage one's self frpm incumbrances, distress, or
entanglements; to become free. [He that clears at once will relapse;
for finding himself out of straits, he will revert to the customs;
but he that cleareth by degrees induceth a habit of frugality. Bacon.

3. (Banking)

Defn: To make exchanges of checks and bills, and settle balances, as
is done in a clearing house.

4. To obtain a clearance; as, the steamer cleared for Liverpool to-
day.
To clear out, to go or run away; to depart. [Colloq.]

CLEARAGE
Clear"age, n.

Defn: The act of reforming anything; clearance. [R.]

CLEARANCE
Clear"ance, n.

1. The act of clearing; as, to make a through clearance.

2. A certificate that a ship or vessel has been cleared at the
customhouse; permission to sail.
Every ship was subject to seizure for want of stamped clearances.
Durke

3. Clear or net profit. Trollope.

4. (Mach.)

Defn: The distance by which one object clears another, as the
distance between the piston and cylinder head at the end of a stroke
in a steam engine, or the least distance between the point of a
cogwell tooth and the bottom of a space between teeth of a wheel with
which it engages. Clearance space (Steam engine), the space inclosed
in one end of the cylinder, between the valve or valves and the
piston, at the beginning of a stroke; waste room. It includes the
space caused by the piston's clearance and the space in ports,
passageways, etc. Its volume is often expressed as a certain
proportion of the volume swept by the piston in a single stroke.

CLEARCOLE
Clear"cole`, n. [F. claire colle clear glue; clair clear (f. claire)
+ colle glue, Gr. ]

Defn: A priming of size mixed with whiting or white lead, used in
house painting, etc.; also, a size upon which gold leaf is applied in
gilding.

CLEARCOLE
Clear"cole`, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Clearcoled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Clearcoling.]

Defn: To coat or paint with clearcole.

CLEAR-CUT
Clear"-cut`, a.

1. Having a sharp, distinct outline, like that of a cameo.
She has . . . a cold and clear-cut face. Tennyson.

2. Concisely and distinctly expressed.

CLEAREDNESS
Clear"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being cleared.
Imputed by his friends to the clearedness, by his foes to the
searedness, of his conscience. T. Fuller.

CLEARER
Clear"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, clears.
Gold is a wonderful clearer of the understanding. Addison.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A tool of which the hemp for lines and twines, used by
sailmakers, is finished.

CLEAR-HEADED
Clear"-head`ed, a.

Defn: Having a clear understanding; quick of perception; intelligent.
"He was laborious and clear-headed." Macaulay.
 -- Clear"-head`ed*ness, n.

CLEARING
Clear"ing, n.

1. The act or process of making clear.
The better clearing of this point. South.

2. A tract of land cleared of wood for cultivation.
A lonely clearing on the shores of Moxie Lake. J. Burroughs.

3. A method adopted by banks and bankers for making an exchange of
checks held by each against the others, and settling differences of
accounts.

Note: In England, a similar method has been adopted by railroads for
adjusting their accounts with each other.

4. The gross amount of the balances adjusted in the clearing house.
Clearing house, the establishment where the business of clearing is
carried on. See above, 3.

CLEARLY
Clear"ly, adv.

Defn: In a clear manner.

CLEARNESS
Clear"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being clear.

Syn.
 -- Clearness, Perspicuity. Clearness has reference to our ideas, and
springs from a distinct conception of the subject under
consideration. Perspicuity has reference to the mode of expressing
our ideas and belongs essentially to style. Hence we speak of a
writer as having clear ideas, a clear arrangement, and perspicuous
phraseology. We do at times speak of a person's having great
clearness of style; but in such cases we are usually thinking of the
clearness of his ideas as manifested in language. "Whenever men think
clearly, and are thoroughly interested, they express themselves with
perspicuity and force." Robertson.

CLEAR-SEEING
Clear"-see`ing, a.

Defn: Having a clear physical or mental vision; having a clear
understanding.

CLEAR-SHINING
Clear"-shin`ing, a.

Defn: Shining brightly. Shak.

CLEAR-SIGHTED
Clear"-sight`ed, a.

Defn: Seeing with clearness; discerning; as, clear-sighted reason

CLEAR-SIGHTEDNESS
Clear"-sight`ed*ness, n.

Defn: Acute discernment.

CLEARSTARCH
Clear"starch`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clearstarched; p. pr. & vb. n.
Clearstraching.]

Defn: To stiffen with starch, and then make clear by clapping with
the hands; as, to clearstarch muslin.

CLEARSTARCHER
Clear"starch`er, n.

Defn: One who clearstarches.

CLEARSTORY; CLERESTORY
Clear"sto`ry, Clere"sto`ry, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The upper story of the nave of a church, containing windows,
and rising above the aisle roofs.

CLEARWING
Clear"wing`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lepidop terous insect with partially transparent wings, of
the family Ægeriadæ, of which the currant and peach-tree borers are
examples.

CLEAT
Cleat (klet), n. Etym: [OE. clete wedge; cf.D. kloot ball, Ger.
kloss, klotz, lump. clod, MHG. kloz lump, ball, wedge, OHG. chloz
ball, round mass.]

1. (Carp.)

Defn: A strip of wood or iron fastened on transversely to something
in order to give strength, prevent warping, hold position, etc.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A device made of wood or metal, having two arms, around which
turns may be taken with a line or rope so as to hold securely and yet
be readily released. It is bolted by the middle to a deck or mast,
etc., or it may be lashed to a rope.

CLEAT
Cleat, v. t.

Defn: To strengthen with a cleat.

CLEAVABLE
Cleav"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of cleaving or being divided.

CLEAVAGE
Cleav"age, n.

1. The act of cleaving or splitting.

2. (Crystallog.)

Defn: The quality possessed by many crystallized substances of
splitting readily in one or more definite directions, in which the
cohesive attraction is a minimum, affording more or less smooth
surfaces; the direction of the dividing plane; a fragment obtained by
cleaving, as of a diamond. See Parting.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: Division into laminæ, like slate, with the lamination not
necessarily parallel to the plane of deposition; -- usually produced
by pressure. Basal cleavage, cleavage parallel to the base of a
crystal, or to the plane of the lateral axes.
 -- Cell cleavage (Biol.), multiplication of cells by fission. See
Segmentation.
 -- Cubuc cleavage, cleavage parallel to the faces of a cube.
 -- Diagonal cleavage, cleavage parallel to ta diagonal plane.
 -- Egg clavage. (Biol.) See Segmentation.
 -- Lateral cleavage, cleavage parallel to the lateral planes.
 -- Octahedral, Dodecahedral, or Rhombohedral, cleavage, cleavage
parallel to the faces of an octahedron, dodecahedron, or
rhombohedron.
 -- Prismatic cleavage, cleavage parallel to a vertical prism.

CLEAVE
Cleave, v. i. [.. Cleaved (, Clave (, (Obs.); p. p. Cleaved; p. pr. &
vb. n. Cleaving.] Etym: [OE. cleovien, clivien, cliven, AS. cleofian,
clifian; akin to OS. klibon, G. kleben, LG. kliven, D. kleven, Dan.
klæbe, Sw. klibba, and also to G. kleiben to cleve, paste, Icel.
klifa to climb. Cf. Climb.]

1. To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast; to cling.
My bones cleave to my skin. Ps. cii. 5.
The diseases of Egypt . . . shall cleave unto thee. Deut. xxviii. 60.
Sophistry cleaves close to and protects Sin's rotten trunk,
concealing its defects. Cowper.

2. To unite or be united closely in interest or affection; to adhere
with strong attachment.
Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall
cleave unto his wife. Gen. ii. 24.
Cleave unto the Lord your God. Josh. xxiii. 8.

3. To fit; to be adapted; to assimilate. [Poetic.]
New honors come upon him, Like our strange garments, cleave not to
their mold But with the aid of use. Shak.

CLEAVE
Cleave, v. t. [imp. Cleft, Clave (, Clove (, (Obsolescent); p. p.
Cleft, Cleaved ( or Cloven (; p. pr. & vb. n. Cleaving.] Etym: [OE.
cleoven, cleven, AS. cleófan; akin to OS. klioban, D. klooven, G.
klieben, Icel. kljufa, Sw. klyfva, Dan. klöve and prob. to Gr.
glubere to peel. Cf. Cleft.]

1. To part or divide by force; to split or rive; to cut.
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain. Shak.

2. To pert or open naturally; to divide.
Every beast that parteth the hoof, and cleaveth the cleft into two
claws. Deut. xiv. 6.

CLEAVE
Cleave, v. i.

Defn: To part; to open; to crack; to separate; as parts of bodies;
as, the ground cleaves by frost.
The Mount of Olives shall cleave in the midst. Zech. xiv. 4.

CLEAVELANDITE
Cleave"land*ite, n. Etym: [From Professor Parker Cleaveland.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of albite, white and lamellar in structure.

CLEAVER
Cleav"er, n.

Defn: One who cleaves, or that which cleaves; especially, a butcher's
instrument for cutting animal bodies into joints or pieces.

CLEAVERS
Cleav"ers, n. Etym: [From Cleave to stick.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Galium (G. Aparine), having a fruit set with
hooked bristles, which adhere to whatever they come in contact with;
-- called also, goose grass, catchweed, etc.

CLECHE
Clé`ché", a. Etym: [F. cléché.] (Her.)

Defn: Charged with another bearing of the same figure, and of the
color of the field, so large that only a narrow border of the first
bearing remains visible; -- said of any heraldic bearing. Compare
Voided.

CLECHY
Cle"chy, a.

Defn: See Cléché.

CLEDGE
Cledge, n. Etym: [Cf. Clay.] (Mining.)

Defn: The upper stratum of fuller's earth.

CLEDGY
Cledg"y, a.

Defn: Stiff, stubborn, clayey, or tenacious; as, a cledgy soil.
Halliwell.

CLEE
Clee, n.

Defn: A claw. [Holland.

CLEE
Clee, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The redshank.

CLEEK
Cleek, n.

1. A large hook or crook, as for a pot over a fire; specif., an iron-
headed golf club with a straight, narrow face and a long shaft.

2.  Act of cleeking; a clutch. [Scot.]

CLEEK
Cleek, v. t.  [pret. Claught; pret. & p. p. Cleeked; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cleeking.] [ME. cleken, clechen, to seize, clutch; perh. akin to E.
clutch.] [Scot & Dial. Eng.]

1.

Defn: To seize; clutch; snatch; catch; pluck.

2.  To catch or draw out with a cleek, as a fish; to hook.

3. To hook or link (together); hence, to marry.  Scott.

CLEF
Clef, n. Etym: [F. clef key, a key in music, fr. L. clavis key. See
Clavicle.] (Mus.)

Defn: A character used in musical notation to determine the position
and pitch of the scale as represented on the staff.

Note: The clefs are three in number, called the C, F, and G clefs,
and are probably corruptions or modifications of these letters. They
indicate that the letters of absolute pitch belonging to the lines
upon which they are placed, are respectively C, F, and G. The F or
bass clef, and the G or treble clef, are fixed in their positions
upon the staff. The C clef may have three positions. It may be placed
upon the first or lower line of the staff, in which case it is called
soprano clef, upon the third line, in which case it called alto clef,
or upon the fourth line, in which case tenor clef. It rarely or never
is placed upon the second line, except in ancient music. See other
forms of C clef under C, 2. Alto clef, Bass clef. See under Alto,
Bass.

CLEFT
Cleft, imp. & p. p.

Defn: from Cleave.

CLEFT
Cleft, a.

1. Divided; split; partly divided or split.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Incised nearly to the midrob; as, a cleft leaf.

CLEFT
Cleft, n. Etym: [OE. clift; cf. Sw. klyft cave, den, Icel. kluft
cleft, Dan. klöft, G. kluft. See Cleave to split and cf. 2d Clift,
1st Clough.]

1. A space or opening made by splitting; a crack; a crevice; as, the
cleft of a rock. Is. ii. 21.

2. A piece made by splitting; as, a cleft of wood.

3. (Far.)

Defn: A disease in horses; a crack on the band of the pastern.
Branchial clefts. See under Branchial.

Syn.
 -- Crack; crevice; fissure; chink; cranny.

CLEFT-FOOTED
Cleft"-foot`ed, a.

Defn: Having a cloven foot.

CLEFTGRAFT
Cleft"graft`, v. t.

Defn: To ingraft by cleaving the stock and inserting a scion.
Mortimer.

CLEG
Cleg, n. Etym: [Northern Eng. & Scot. gleg: cf. Gael. crethleag.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A small breeze or horsefly. [North of Eng. & Scot.] Jamieson.

CLEISTOGAMIC; CLEISTOGAMOUS
Cleis`to*gam"ic, Cleis*tog"a*mous a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having, beside the usual flowers, other minute, closed flowers,
without petals or with minute petals; -- said of certain species of
plants which possess flowers of two or more kinds, the closed ones
being so constituted as to insure self-fertilization. Darwin.

CLEM
Clem, v. t. & i. Etym: [Cf. clam to clog, or G. klemmen to pinch,
Icel. kl, E. clamp.]

Defn: To starve; to famish. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

CLEMATIS
Clem"a*tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of flowering plants, of many species, mostly climbers,
having feathery styles, which greatly enlarge in the fruit; -- called
also virgin's bower.

CLEMENCE
Clem"ence, n.

Defn: Clemency. [Obs.] Spenser.

CLEMENCY
Clem"en*cy, n.; pl. Clemencies. Etym: [L. clementia, fr. clemens
mild, calm.]

1. Disposition to forgive and spare, as offenders; mildness of
temper; gentleness; tenderness; mercy.
Great clemency and tender zeal toward their subjects. Stowe.
They had applied for the royal clemency. Macaulay.

2. Mildness or softness of the elements; as, the clemency of the
season.

Syn.
 -- Mildness; tenderness; indulgence; lenity; mercy; gentleness;
compassion; kindness.

CLEMENT
Clem"ent, a. Etym: [L. clemens; -entis; cf. F. cl.]

Defn: Mild in temper and disposition; merciful; compassionate. Shak.
 -- Clem"ent*ly, adv.

CLEMENTINE
Clem"ent*ine, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Clement, esp. to St.Clement of Rome and the
spurious homilies attributed to him, or to Pope Clement V. and his
compilations of canon law.

CLENCH
Clench, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Clinch.

CLEOPATRA'S NEEDLE
Cle`o*pa"tra's nee"dle. [So named after Cleopatra, queen of Egypt.]

Defn: Either of two obelisks which were moved in ancient times from
Heliopolis to Alexandria, one of which is now on the Thames
Embankment in London, and the other in Central Park, in the City of
New York.

 Some writers consider that only the obelisk now in Central Park is
properly called Cleopatra's needle.

CLEPE
Clepe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cleped or; p. pr. & vb. n. Cleping. Cf.
Ycleped.] Etym: [AS. clepan, cleopian, clipian, clypian, to cry,
call.]

Defn: To call, or name. [Obs.]
That other son was cleped Cambalo. Chaucer.

CLEPE
Clepe, v. i.

Defn: To make appeal; to cry out. [Obs.]
Wandering in woe, and to the heavens on high Cleping for vengeance of
this treachery. Mir. for Mag.

CLEPSINE
Clep"si*ne, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of freshwater leeches, furnished with a proboscis. They
feed upon mollusks and worms.

CLEPSYDRA
Clep"sy*dra, n. Etym: [L. from Gr.

Defn: A water clock; a contrivance for measuring time by the
graduated flow of a liquid, as of water, through a small aperture.
See Illust. in Appendix.

CLEPTOMANIA
Clep`to*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: See Kleptomania.

CLERESTORY
Clere"sto`ry, n.

Defn: Same as Clearstory.

CLERGEON
Cler"geon, n. Etym: [F., dim. of clerc. See Clerk.]

Defn: A chorister boy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLERGIAL
Cler"gi*al, a.

Defn: Learned; erudite; clercial. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLERGICAL
Cler"gi*cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the clergy; clerical; clerkily; learned.
[Obs.] Milton.

CLERGY
Cler"gy, n. Etym: [OE. clergie, clergi, clerge, OF. clergie, F.
clergie (fr. clerc clerc, fr. L. clericus priest) confused with OF.
clergié, F. clergé, fr. LL. clericatus office of priest, monastic
life, fr. L. clericus priest, LL. scholar, clerc. Both the Old French
words meant clergy, in sense 1, the former having also sense 2. See
Clerk.]

1. The body of men set apart, by due ordination, to the service of
God, in the Christian church, in distinction from the laity; in
England, usually restricted to the ministers of the Established
Church. Hooker.

2. Learning; also, a learned profession. [Obs.]
Sophictry . . . rhetoric, and other cleargy. Guy of Warwick.
Put their second sons to learn some clergy. State Papers (1515).

3. The privilege or benefit of clergy.
If convicted of a clergyable felony, he is entitled equally to his
clergy after as before conviction. Blackstone.
Benefit of clergy (Eng., Law), the exemption of the persons of
clergymen from criminal process before a secular judge -- a privilege
which was extended to all who could read, such persons being, in the
eye of the law, clerici, or clerks. This privilege was abridged and
modified by various statutes, and finally abolished in the reign of
George IV. (1827).
 -- Regular clergy, Secular clergy See Regular, n., and Secular, a.

CLERGYABLE
Cler"gy*a*ble, a.

Defn: Entitled to, or admitting, the benefit of clergy; as, a
clergyable felony. Blackstone.

CLERGYMAN
Cler"gy*man, n.; pl. Clergymen.

Defn: An ordained minister; a man regularly authorized to peach the
gospel, and administer its ordinances; in England usually restricted
to a minister of the Established Church.

CLERIC
Cler"ic, n. Etym: [AS., fr. L. clericus. See Clerk.]

Defn: A clerk, a clergyman. [R.] Bp. Horsley.

CLERIC
Cler"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Clerical.

CLERICAL
Cler"ic*al, a. Etym: [LL. clericalis. See Clerk.]

1. Of or pertaining to the clergy; suitable for the clergy. "A
clerical education." Burke.

2. Of or relating to a clerk or copyist, or to writing. "Clerical
work." E. Everett. A clerical error, an error made in copying or
writing.

CLERICALISM
Cler"ic*al*ism, n.

Defn: An excessive devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order;
undue influence of the clergy; sacerdotalism.

CLERICITY
Cler*ic"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being a clergyman.

CLERISY
Cler"i*sy, n. Etym: [LL. clericia. See Clergy.]

1. The literati, or well educated class.

2. The clergy, or their opinions, as opposed to the laity.

CLERK
Clerk (; in Eng. ; 277), n. Etym: [Either OF. clerc, fr. L. clericus
a priest, or AS. clerc, cleric, clerk, priest, fr. L. clericus, fr.
Gr. Clergy.]

1. A clergyman or ecclesiastic. [Obs.]
All persons were styled clerks that served in the church of Christ.
Ayliffe.

2. A man who could read; a scholar; a learned person; a man of
letters. [Obs.] "Every one that could read . . . being accounted a
clerk." Blackstone.
He was no great clerk, but he was perfectly well versed in the
interests of Europe. Burke.

3. A parish officer, being a layman who leads in reading the
responses of the Episcopal church service, and otherwise assists in
it. [Eng.] Hook.
And like unlettered clerk still cry "Amen". Shak.

4. One employed to keep records or accounts; a scribe; an accountant;
as, the clerk of a court; a town clerk.
The clerk of the crown . . . withdrew the bill. Strype.

Note: In some cases, clerk is synonymous with secretary. A clerk is
always an officer subordinate to a higher officer, board,
corporation, or person; whereas a secretary may be either a
subordinate or the head of an office or department.

5. An assistant in a shop or store. [U. S.]

CLERK-ALE
Clerk"-ale` ( in Eng. , n.

Defn: A feast for the benefit of the parish clerk. [Eng.] T. Warton.

CLERKLESS
Clerk"less, a.

Defn: Unlearned. [Obs.] E. Waterhouse.

CLERKLIKE
Clerk"like`, a.

Defn: Scholarlike. [Obs.] Shak.

CLERKLINESS
Clerk"li*ness, n.

Defn: Scholarship. [Obs.]

CLERKLY
Clerk"ly, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a clerk. Cranmer.

CLERKLY
Clerk"ly, adv.

Defn: In a scholarly manner. [Obs.] Shak.

CLERKSHIP
Clerk"ship, n.

Defn: State, quality, or business of a clerk.

CLEROMANCY
Cler"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy; cf. F. cléromancie.]

Defn: A divination by throwing dice or casting lots.

CLERONOMY
Cle*ron"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Inheritance; heritage.

CLERSTORY
Cler"sto`ry, n.

Defn: See Clearstory.

CLEVER
Clev"er, a. Etym: [Origin uncertain. Cf. OE. cliver eager, AS. clyfer
(in comp.) cloven; or clifer a claw, perh. connected with E. cleave
to divide, split, the meaning of E. clever perh. coming from the idea
of grasping, seizing (with the mind).]

1. Possessing quickness of intellect, skill, dexterity, talent, or
adroitness; expert.
Though there were many clever men in England during the latter half
of the seventeenth century, there were only two great creative minds.
Macaulay.
Be good, sweet maid, and let who will be clever. C. Kingsley.

2. Showing skill or adroitness in the doer or former; as, a clever
speech; a clever trick. Byron.

3. Having fitness, propriety, or suitableness.
"T would sound more clever To me and to my heirs forever. Swift.

4. Well-shaped; handsome. "The girl was a tight, clever wench as any
was." Arbuthnot.

5. Good-natured; obliging. [U. S.]

Syn.
 -- See Smart.

CLEVERISH
Clev"er*ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat clever. [R.]

CLEVERLY
Clev"er*ly, adv.

Defn: In a clever manner.
Never was man so clever absurd. C. Smart.

CLEVERNESS
Clev"er*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being clever; skill; dexterity; adroitness.

Syn.
 -- See Ingenuity.

CLEVIS
Clev"is, n. Etym: [Cf. Cleave to adhere, Clavel.]

Defn: A piece of metal bent in the form of an oxbow, with the two
ends perforated to receive a pin, used on the end of the tongue of a
plow, wagen, etc., to attach it to a draft chain, whiffletree, etc.;
-- called also clavel, clevy.

CLEW; CLUE
Clew, Clue, n. Etym: [OE. clewe, clowe, clue, AS. cleowen, cliwen,
clywe ball of thread; akin to D. kluwen, OHG. chliwa, chliuwa, G.
dim. kleuel, knäuel, and perch. to L. gluma hull, husk, Skr. glaus
sort of ball or tumor. Perch. akin to E. claw. *26. Cf. Knawel.]

1. A ball of thread, yarn, or cord; also, The thread itself.
Untwisting his deceitful clew. Spenser.

2. That which guides or directs one in anything of a doubtful or
intricate nature; that which gives a hint in the solution of a
mystery.
The clew, without which it was perilous to enter the vast and
intricate maze of countinental politics, was in his hands. Macaulay.

3. (Naut.) (a.)

Defn: A lower corner of a square sail, or the after corner of a fore-
and-aft sail. (b.)

Defn: A loop and thimbles at the corner of a sail. (c.)

Defn: A combination of lines or nettles by which a hammock is
suspended. Clew garnet (Naut.), one of the ropes by which the clews
of the courses of square-rigged vessels are drawn up to the lower
yards.
 -- Clew line (Naut.), a rope by which a clew of one of the smaller
square sails, as topsail, topgallant sail, or royal, is run up to its
yard.
 -- Clew-line block (Naut.), The block through which a clew line
reeves. See Illust. of Block.

CLEW
Clew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. & vb. n. Clewing.] Etym: [Cf. D. kluwenen.
See Clew, n.]

1. To direct; to guide, as by a thread. [Obs.]
Direct and clew me out the way to happiness. Beau. && Fl.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To move of draw (a sail or yard) by means of the clew garnets,
clew lines, etc.; esp. to draw up the clews of a square sail to the
yard. To clew down (Naut.), to force (a yard) down by hauling on the
clew lines.
 -- To clew up (Naut.), to draw (a sail) up to the yard, as for
furling.

CLICHE
Cli`ché", n. Etym: [F. cliché, from clicher to stereotype.]

Defn: A stereotype plate or any similar reproduction of ornament, or
lettering, in relief. Cliché casting, a mode of obtaining an
impression from a die or woodcut, or the like, by striking it
suddenly upon metal which has been fused and is just becoming solid;
also, the casting so obtained.

CLICK
Click, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clicked; p. pr. & vb. n. Clicking.] Etym:
[Prob. an onomatopoetic word: cf. OF. cliquier. See Clack, and cf.
Clink, Clique.]

Defn: To make a slight, sharp noise (or a succession of such noises),
as by gentle striking; to tick.
The varnished clock that clicked behind the door. Goldsmith.

CLICK
Click, v. t.

1. To more with the sound of a click.
She clicked back the bolt which held the window sash. Thackeray.

2. To cause to make a clicking noise, as by striking together, or
against something.
[Jove] clicked all his marble thumbs. Ben Jonson.
When merry milkmaids click the latch. Tennyson.

CLICK
Click, n.

1. A slight sharp noise, such as is made by the cocking of a pistol.

2. A kind of articulation used by the natives of Southern Africa,
consisting in a sudden withdrawal of the end or some other portion of
the tongue from a part of the mouth with which it is in contact,
whereby a sharp, clicking sound is produced. The sounds are four in
number, and are called cerebral, palatal, dental, and lateral clicks
or clucks, the latter being the noise ordinarily used in urging a
horse forward.

CLICK
Click, v. t. Etym: [OE. kleken, clichen. Cf. Clutch.]

Defn: To snatch. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

CLICK
Click, n. Etym: [Cf. 4th Click, and OF. clique latch.]

1. A detent, pawl, or ratchet, as that which catches the cogs of a
ratchet wheel to prevent backward motion. See Illust. of Ratched
wheel.

2. The latch of a door. [Prov. Eng.]

CLICK BEETLE
Click" bee"tle. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Elater.

CLICKER
Click"er, n.

1. One who stands before a shop door to invite people to buy. [Low,
Eng.]

2. (Print.)

Defn: One who as has charge of the work of a companionship.

CLICKET
Click"et, n. Etym: [OF. cliquet the latch of a door. See 5th Click.]

1. The knocker of a door. [Prov. Eng.]

2. A latch key. [Eng.] Chaucer.

CLICKY
Click"y, a.

Defn: Resembling a click; abounding in clicks. "Their strange clicky
language." The Century.

CLIDASTES
Cli*das"tes, n. Etym: [NL., prob. from Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of exinct marine reptiles, allied to the Mosasaurus.
See Illust. in Appendix.

CLIENCY
Cli"en*cy, n.

Defn: State of being a client.

CLIENT
Cli"ent, n. Etym: [L. cliens, -emtis, for cluens, one who hears (in
relation to his protector), a client, fr. L. cluere to be named or
called; akin to Gr. çry, and E. loud: cf. F. client. See Loud.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A citizen who put himself under the protection of a man of
distinction and influence, who was called his patron.

2. A dependent; one under the protection of another.
I do think they are your friends and clients, And fearful to disturb
you. B. Jonson.

3. (Law)

Defn: One who consults a legal adviser, or submits his cause to his
management.

CLIENTAGE
Cli"ent*age, n.

1. State of being client.

2. A body of clients. E. Everett.

CLIENTAL
Cli*en"tal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a client.
A dependent and cliental relation. Burke.
I sat down in the cliental chair. Dickens.

CLIENTED
Cli"ent*ed, a.

Defn: Supplied with clients. [R.]
The least cliented pettifiggers. R. Carew.

CLIENTELAGE
Cli*en"te*lage, n.

Defn: See Clientele, n., 2.

CLIENTELE
Cli`en*tele" ( or ), n. Etym: [L. clientela: cf. F. clientèle.]

1. The condition or position of a client; clientship. [Obs.] Bp.
Hall.

2. The clients or dependents of a nobleman of patron.

3. The persons who make habitual use of the services of another
person; one's clients, collectively; as, the clientele of a lawyer,
doctor, notary, etc.

CLIENTSHIP
Cli"ent*ship, n.

Defn: Condition of a client; state of being under the protection of a
patron. Dryden.

CLIFF
Cliff, n. Etym: [AS. clif, cloef; akin to OS. klif, D. klif, klip,
Icel. klif, Dan. & G. klippe, Sw. klippa; perh. orig. a climbing
place. See Climb.]

Defn: A high, steep rock; a precipice. Cliff swallow (Zoöl.), a North
American swallow (Petrochelidon lunifrons), which builds its nest
against cliffs; the eaves swallow.

CLIFF
Cliff, n. (Mus.)

Defn: See Clef. [Obs.]

CLIFF LIMESTONE
Cliff" lime"stone`. (Geol.)

Defn: A series of limestone strata found in Ohio and farther west,
presenting bluffs along the rivers and valleys, formerly supposed to
be of one formation, but now known to be partly Silurian and partly
Devonian.

CLIFFY
Cliff"y, a.

Defn: Having cliffs; broken; craggy.

CLIFT
Clift, n. Etym: [See 1st Cliff, n.]

Defn: A cliff. [Obs.]
That gainst the craggy clifts did loudly roar. Spenser.

CLIFT
Clift, n. Etym: [See Cleft, n.]

1. A cleft of crack; a narrow opening. [Obs.]

2. The fork of the legs; the crotch. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLIFTED
Clift"ed, a. Etym: [From Clift a cleft.]

Defn: Broken; fissured.
Climb the Andeclifted side. Grainger.

CLIMACTER
Cli*mac"ter, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. climactère. See Climax.]

Defn: See Climacteric, n.

CLIMACTERIC
Cli*mac"ter*ic ( or ; 277), a. Etym: [L. climactericus, Gr.
Climacter.]

Defn: Relating to a climacteric; critical.

CLIMACTERIC
Cli*mac"ter*ic, n.

1. A period in human life in which some great change is supposed to
take place in the constitution. The critical periods are thought by
some to be the years produced by multiplying 7 into the odd numbers
3, 5, 7, and 9; to which others add the 81st year.

2. Any critical period.
It is your lot, as it was mine, to live during one of the grand
climacterics of the world. Southey.
Grand or Great climacteric, the sixty-third year of human life.
I should hardly yield my rigid fibers to be regenerated by them; nor
begin, in my grand climacteric, to squall in their new accents, or to
stammer, in my second cradle, the elemental sounds of their barbarous
metaphysics. Burke.

CLIMACTERICAL
Clim`ac*ter"ic*al, a. & n.

Defn: See Climacteric. Evelyn.

CLIMACTIC
Cli*mac"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a climax; forming, or of the nature of, a
climax, or ascending series.

A fourth kind of parallelism . . . is still sufficiently marked to be
noticed by the side of those described by Lowth, viz., climactic
parallelism (sometimes called "ascending rhythm").
S. R. Driver.

CLIMATAL
Cli"ma*tal, a.

Defn: Climatic. Dunglison.

CLIMATARCHIC
Cli`ma*tar"chic, a. Etym: [Climate + Gr.

Defn: Presiding over, or regulating, climates.

CLIMATE
Cli"mate, n. Etym: [F. climat, L. clima, -atis, fr. Gr. lean, v. i.
See Lean, v. i., and cf. Clime.]

1. (Anc. Geog.)

Defn: One of thirty regions or zones, parallel to the equator, into
which the surface of the earth from the equator to the pole was
divided, according to the successive increase of the length of the
midsummer day.

2. The condition of a place in relation to various phenomena of the
atmosphere, as temperature, moisture, etc., especially as they affect
animal or vegetable life.

CLIMATE
Cli"mate, v. i.

Defn: To dwell. [Poetic] Shak.

CLIMATIC
Cli*mat"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a climate; depending on, or limited by, a
climate.

CLIMATICAL
Cli*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Climatic.

CLIMATIZE
Cli"ma*tize, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Climatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Climatizing.]

Defn: To acclimate or become acclimated.

CLIMATOGRAPHY
Cli`ma*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Climate + -graphy.]

Defn: A description of climates.

CLIMATOLOGICAL
Cli`ma*to*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to climatology.

CLIMATOLOGIST
Cli`ma*tol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in, or who studies, climatology.

CLIMATOLOGY
Cli`ma*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Climate + -logy: cf. F. climatologie.]

Defn: The science which treats of climates and investigates their
phenomena and causes. Brande & C.

CLIMATURE
Cli"ma*ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. climature.]

Defn: A climate. [Obs.] Shak.

CLIMAX
Cli"max, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. Ladder, Lean, v. i.]

1. Upward movement; steady increase; gradation; ascent. Glanvill.

2. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of which the parts of a sentence or paragraph are so
arranged that each sicceeding one rise
"Tribulation worketh patience, patience experience, and experience
hope" -- a happy climax. J. D. Forbes.

3. The highest point; the greatest degree.
We must look higher for the climax of earthly good. I. Taylor.
To cap the climax, to surpass everything, as in excellence or in
absurdity. [Colloq.]

CLIMB
Climb, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Climbed, Obs. or Vulgar Clomb (; p. pr. &
vb. n. Climbing.] Etym: [AS. climban; akin to OHG. chlimban, G. & D.
klimmen, Icel. klifa, and E. cleave to adhere.]

1. To ascend or mount laboriously, esp. by use of the hands and feet.

2. To ascend as if with effort; to rise to a higher point.
Black vapors climb aloft, and cloud the day. Dryden.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: To ascend or creep upward by twining about a support, or by
attaching itself by tendrills, rootlets, etc., to a support or
upright surface.

CLIMB
Climb, v. t.

Defn: To ascend, as by means of the hands and feet, or laboriously or
slowly; to mount.

CLIMB
Climb, n.

Defn: The act of one who climbs; ascent by climbing. Warburton.

CLIMBABLE
Climb"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being climbed.

CLIMBER
Climb"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, climbs:
(a) (Bot.) A plant that climbs.
(b) (Zoöl.) A bird that climbs, as a woodpecker or a parrot.

CLIMBER
Climb"er, v. i. Etym: [From Climb; cf. Clamber.]

Defn: To climb; to mount with effort; to clamber. [Obs.] Tusser.

CLIMBING
Climb"ing,

Defn: p. pr. & vb. n. of Climb. Climbing fern. See under Fern.
 -- Climbing perch. (Zoöl.) See Anabas, and Labyrinthici.

CLIME
Clime, n. Etym: [L. clima. See Climate.]

Defn: A climate; a tract or region of the earth. See Climate.
Turn we to sutvey, Where rougher climes a nobler race display.
Goldsmith.

CLINANTHIUM
Cli*nan"thi*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The receptacle of the flowers in a composite plant; -- also
called clinium.

CLINCH
Clinch (; 224), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clinched; p. pr. & vb. n.
Clinching.] Etym: [OE. clenchen, prop. causative of clink to cause to
clink, to strike; cf. D. klinken to tinkle, rivet. See Clink.]

1. To hold firmly; to hold fast by grasping or embracing tightly.
"Clinch the pointed spear." Dryden.

2. To set closely together; to close tightly; as, to clinch the teeth
or the first. Swift.

3. The bend or turn over the point of (something that has been driven
trough an object), so that it will hold fast; as, to clinch a nail.

4. To make conclusive; to confirm; to establish; as, to clinch an
argument. South.

CLINCH
Clinch, v. i.

Defn: To hold fast; to grasp something firmly; to seize or grasp one
another.

CLINCH
Clinch, n.

1. The act or process of holding fast; that which serves to hold
fast; a grip; a grasp; a clamp; a holdfast; as, to get a good clinch
of an antagonist, or of a weapon; to secure anything by a clinch.

2. A pun. Pope.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A hitch or bend by which a rope is made fast to the ring of an
anchor, or the breeching of a ship's gun to the ringbolts.

CLINCHER
Clinch"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, clinches; that which holds fast. Pope.

2. That which ends a dispute or controversy; a decisive argument.

CLINCHER-BUILT
Clinch"er-built, a.

Defn: See Clinker-built.

CLING
Cling, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clung, Clong (Obs.); p. pr. & vb. n.
Clinging.] Etym: [AS. clingan to adhere, to wither; akin to Dan.
klynge to cluster, crowd. Cf. Clump.]

Defn: To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast, especially by
twining round or embracing; as, the tendril of a vine clings to its
support; -- usually followed by to or together.
And what hath life for thee That thou shouldst cling to it thus Mrs.
Hemans.

CLING
Cling, v. t.

1. To cause to adhere to, especially by twining round or embraching.
[Obs.]
I clung legs as close to his side as I could. Swift.

2. To make to dry up or wither. [Obs.]
If thou speak'st false, Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive,
Till famine cling thee. Shak.

CLING
Cling, n.

Defn: Adherence; attachment; devotion. [R.]
A more tenacious cling to worldly respects. Milton.

CLINGSTONE
Cling"stone`, a.

Defn: Having the flesh attached closely to the stone, as in some
kinds of peaches.
 -- n.

Defn: A fruit, as a peach, whose flesh adheres to the stone.

CLINGY
Cling"y, a.

Defn: Apt to cling; adhesive. [R.]

CLINIC
Clin"ic, n. Etym: [See Clinical.]

1. One confined to the bed by sickness.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: One who receives baptism on a sick bed. [Obs.] Hook.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A school, or a session of a school or class, in which medicine
or surgery is taught by the examination and treatment of patients in
the presence of the pupils.

CLINICAL; CLINIC
Clin"ic*al, Clin"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. clinique. See Lean, v. i.]

1. Of or pertaining to a bed, especially, a sick bed.

2. Of or pertaining to a clinic, or to the study of disease in the
living subject. Clinical baptism, baptism administered to a person on
a sick bed.
 -- Clinical instruction, instruction by means of clinics.
 -- Clinical lecture (Med.), a discourse upon medical topics
illustrared by the exhibition and examination of living patients.
 -- Clinical medicine, Clinical surgery, that part of medicine or
surgery which is occupied with the investigation of disease in the
living subject.

CLINICALLY
Clin"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a clinical manner.

CLINIQUE
Cli*nique", n. Etym: [F.] (Med.)

Defn: A clinic.

CLINIUM
Clin"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: See Clinanthium.

CLINK
Clink, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clinked; p. pr. & vb. n. Clinking.] Etym:
[OE. clinken; akin to G. klingen, D. klinken, SW. klinga, Dan.
klinge; prob. of imitative origin. Cf. Clank, Clench, Click, v. i.]

Defn: To cause to give out a slight, sharp, tinkling, sound, as by
striking metallic or other sonorous bodies together.
And let me the canakin clink. Shak.

CLINK
Clink, v. i.

1. To give out a slight, sharp, thinkling sound. "The clinking
latch." Tennyson.

2. To rhyme. [Humorous]. Cowper.

CLINK
Clink, n.

Defn: A slight, sharp, tinkling sound, made by the collision of
sonorous bodies. "Clink and fall of swords." Shak.

CLINKANT
Clin"kant, a.

Defn: See Clnquant.

CLINKER
Clink"er, n. Etym: [From clink; cf. D. clinker a brick which is so
hard that it makes a sonorous sound, from clinken to clink. Cf.
Clinkstone.]

1. A mass composed of several bricks run together by the action of
the fire in the kiln.

2. Scoria or vitrified incombustible matter, formed in a grate or
furnace where anthracite coal in used; vitrified or burnt matter
ejected from a volcano; slag.

3. A scale of oxide of iron, formed in forging.

4. A kind of brick. See Dutch klinker, under Dutch.

CLINKER-BUILT
Clink"er-built, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Having the side planks (af a boat) so arranged that the lower
edge of each overlaps the upper edge of the plank next below it like
clapboards on a house. See Lapstreak.

CLINKSTONE
Clink"stone` (; 110), n. Etym: [Clink + stone; -- from its
sonorousness.] (Min.)

Defn: An igneous rock of feldspathic composition, lamellar in
structure, and clinking under the hammer. See Phonolite.

CLINODIAGONAL
Cli`no*di*ag"o*nal, n. Etym: [Gr. diagonal.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: That diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal which
makes an oblique angle witch the vertical axis. See Crystallization.
 -- a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or the direction of, the clinidiagonal.

CLINODOME
Cli"no*dome`, n. Etym: [Gr. dome.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: See under Dome.

CLINOGRAPHIC
Cli"no*graph"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. + -graph.]

Defn: Pertaining to that mode of projection in drawing in which the
rays of light are supposed to fall obliquely on the plane of
projection.

CLINOID
Cli"noid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Like a bed; -- applied to several processes on the inner side
of the sphenoid bone.

CLINOMETER
Cli*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Geol.)

Defn: An instrument for determining the dip of beds or strata, pr the
slope of an embankment or cutting; a kind of plumb level. Dana.

CLINOMETRIC
Clin`o*met"ric, a.

1. Pertaining to, or ascertained by, the clinometer.

2. Pertaining to the oblique crystalline forms, or to solids which
have oblique angles between the axes; as, the clinometric systems.

CLINOMETRY
Cli*nom"e*try, n. (geol.)

Defn: That art or operation of measuring the inclination of strata.

CLINOPINACOID
Cli`no*pin"a*coid, n. Etym: [Gr. pinacoid.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: The plane in crystals of the monoclinic system which is
parallel to the vertical and the inclined lateral (clinidiagonal)
axes.

CLINORHOMBIC
Cli`no*rhom"bic, a. Etym: [Gr. rhombic: cf. F. clinorhombique.]
(Crystallog.)

Defn: Possessing the qualities of a prism, obliquely inclined to a
rhombic base; monoclinic.

CLINOSTAT
Cli"no*stat, n. [Gr.  to incline +  to make to stand.] (Bot.)

Defn: An apparatus consisting of a slowly revolving disk, usually
regulated by  clockwork, by means of wich the action of external
agents, as light and gravity, on growing plants may be regulated or
eliminated.

CLINQUANT
Clin"quant, a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Glittering; dressed in, or overlaid with, tinsel finery. [Obs.]
Shak.

CLINQUANT
Clin"quant, n.

Defn: Tinse;l; Dutch gold.

CLIO
Cli"o, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The Muse who presided over history.

CLIONE
Cli*o"ne, n.

Defn: A genus of naked pteropods. One species (Clione papilonacea),
abundant in the Arctic Ocean, constitutes a part of the food of the
Greenland whale. It is sometimes incorrectly called Clio.

CLIP
Clip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clipped (; p. pr. & vb. n. Clipping.] Etym:
[OE. cluppen, clippen, to embrace, AS. clyran to embrace, clasp; cf.
OHG. kluft tongs, shears, Icel, klypa to pinch, squeeze, also OE.
clippen to cut, shear, Dan. klippe to clip, cut, SW. & Icel. klippa.]

1. To embrace, hence; to encompass.
O . . . that Neptune's arms, who clippeth thee about, Would bear thee
from the knowledge of thyself. Shak.

2. To cut off; as with shears or scissors; as, to clip the hair; to
clip coin.
Sentenced to have his ears clipped. Macaulay.

3. To curtail; to cut short.
All my reports go with the modest truth; No more nor clipped, but so.
Shak.
In London they clip their words after one manner about the court,
another in the city, and a third in the suburbs. Swift.

CLIP
Clip, v. i.

Defn: To move swiftly; -- usually with indefinite it.
Straight flies as chek, and clips it down the wind. Dryden.

CLIP
Clip, n.

1. An embrace. Sir P. Sidney.

2. A cutting; a shearing.

3. The product of a single shearing of sheep; a season's crop of
wool.

4. A clasp or holder for letters, papers, etc.

5. An embracing strap for holding parts together; the iron strap,
with loop, at the ends of a whiffletree. Knight.

6. (Far.)

Defn: A projecting flange on the upper edge of a horseshoe, turned up
so as to embrace the lower part of the hoof; -- called also toe clip
and beak. Youatt.

7. A blow or stroke with the hand; as, he hit him a clip. [Colloq. U.
S.]

CLIPPER
Clip"per, n.

1. One who clips; specifically, one who clips off the edges of coin.
The value is pared off from it into the clipper's pocket. Locke.

2. A machine for clipping hair, esp. the hair of horses.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel with a sharp bow, built and rigged for fast sailing.
 -- Clip"per-built` (, a.

Note: The name was first borne by "Baltimore clippers" famous as
privateers in the early wars of the United States.

CLIPPING
Clip"ping, n.

1. The act of embracing. [Obs.]

2. The act of cutting off, curtailing, or diminishing; the practice
of clipping the edges of coins.
clipping by Englishmen is robbing the honest man who receives clipped
money. Locke.

3. That which is clipped off or out of something; a piece separated
by clipping; as, newspaper clippings.

CLIQUE
Clique, n. Etym: [F., fr. OF. cliquer to click. See Click, v. i.]

Defn: A narrow circle of persons associated by common interests or
for the accomplishment of a common purpose; -- generally used in a
bad sense.

CLIQUE
Clique, v. i.

Defn: To To associate together in a clannish way; to act with others
secretly to gain a desired end; to plot; -- used with together.

CLIQUISH
Cli"quish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a clique; disposed to from cliques;
exclusive in spirit.
 -- Cli"*quish*ness, n.

CLIQUISM
Cli"quism, n.

Defn: The tendency to associate in cliques; the spirit of cliques.

CLITELLUS
Cli*tel"lus, n. Etym: [NL., prob. fr. L. clitellae a packsadle.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A thickened glandular portion of the body of the adult
earthworm, consisting of several united segments modified for
reproductive purposes.

CLITORIS
Cli"to*ris ( or ), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. labia pudendi.] (Anat.)

Defn: A small organ at the upper part of the vulva, homologous to the
penis in the male.

CLIVERS
Cliv"ers ( or ), n.

Defn: See Cleavers.

CLIVITY
Cliv"i*ty, n.; pl. Clivities. Etym: [L. clivus hill.]

Defn: Inclination; ascent or descent; a gradient. [R.]

CLOACA
Clo"a"ca, n.; pl. Cloacæ. Etym: [L.]

1. A sewer; as, the Cloaca Maxima of Rome.

2. A privy.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The common chamber into which the intestinal, urinary, and
generative canals discharge in birds, reptiles, amphibians, and many
fishes.

CLOACAL
Clo*a"cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cloaca.

CLOAK
Cloak (; 110), n. Etym: [Of. cloque cloak (from the bell-like shape),
bell, F. cloche bell; perh. of Celtik origin and the same word as E.
clock. See 1st Clock.]

1. A loose outer garment, extending from the neck downwards, and
commonly without sleeves. It is longer than a cape, and is worn both
by men and by women.

2. That which conceals; a disguise or pretext; an excuse; a fair
pretense; a mask; a cover.
No man is esteemed any ways considerable for policy who wears
religion otherwise than as a cloak. South.
Cloak bag, a bag in which a cloak or other clothes are carried; a
portmanteau. Shak.

CLOAK
Cloak, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cloaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Cloaking.]

Defn: To cover with, or as with, a cloak; hence, to hide or conceal.
Now glooming sadly, so to cloak her matter. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- See Palliate.

CLOAKEDLY
Cloak"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a concealed manner.

CLOAKING
Cloak"ing, n.

1. The act of covering with a cloak; the act of concealing anything.
To take heed of their dissembings and cloakings. Strype.

2. The material of which of which cloaks are made.

CLOAKROOM
Cloak"room`, n.

Defn: A room, attached to any place of public resort, where cloaks,
overcoats, etc., may be deposited for a time.

CLOCHE
Cloche, n. [F., prop., bell.] (Aëronautics)

Defn: An apparatus used in controlling certain kinds of aëroplanes,
and consisting principally of a steering column mounted with a
universal joint at the base, which is bellshaped and has attached to
it the cables for controlling the wing-warping devices, elevator
planes, and the like.

CLOCK
Clock, n. Etym: [AS. clucge bell; akin to D. klok clock, bell, G.
glocke, Dan. klokke, Sw. klocka, Icel. klukka bell, LL. clocca, cloca
(whence F. cloche); al perh. of Celtic origin; cf. Ir. & Gael. clog
bell, clock, W. cloch bell. Cf. Cloak.]

1. A machine for measuring time, indicating the hour and other
divisions by means of hands moving on a dial plate. Its works are
moved by a weight or a spring, and it is often so constructed as to
tell the hour by the stroke of a hammer on a bell. It is not adapted,
like the watch, to be carried on the person.

2. A watcg, esp. one that strikes. [Obs.] Walton.

3. The striking of a clock. [Obs.] Dryden.

4. A figure or figured work on the ankle or side of a stocking.
Swift.

Note: The phrases what o'clock it is nine o'clock, etc., are
contracted from what of the clock it is nine of the clock, etc. Alarm
clock. See under Alarm.
 -- Astronomical clock. (a) A clock of superior construction, with a
compensating pendulum, etc., to measure time with great accuracy, for
use in astronomical observatories; -- called a regulator when used by
watchmakers as a standard for regulating timepieces. (b) A clock with
mechanism for indicating certain astronomical phenomena, as the
phases of the moon, position of the sun in the ecliptic, equation of
time, etc.
 -- Electric clock. (a) A clock moved or regulated by electricity or
electro-magnetism. (b) A clock connected with an electro-magnetic
recording apparatus.
 -- Ship's clock (Naut.), a clock arranged to strike from one to
eight strokes, at half hourly intervals, marking the divisions of the
ship's watches.
 -- Sidereal clock, an astronomical clock regulated to keep sidereal
time.

CLOCK
Clock, v. t.

Defn: To ornament with figured work, as the side of a stocking.

CLOCK
Clock, v. t. & i.

Defn: To call, as a hen. See Cluck. [R.]

CLOCK
Clock, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large beetle, esp. the European dung beetle (Scarabæus
stercorarius).

CLOCKLIKE
Clock"like`, a.

Defn: Like a clock or like clockwork; mechanical.
Their services are clocklike, to be set Blackward and vorward at
their lord's command. B. Jonson.

CLOCKWISE
Clock"wise`, a. & adv.

Defn: Like the motion of the hands of a clock; -- said of that
direction of a rotation about an axis, or about a point in a plane,
which is ordinarily reckoned negative.

CLOCKWORK
Clock"work`, n.

Defn: The machinery of a clock, or machinary resembling that of a
clock; machinery which produced regularity of movement.

CLOD
Clod, n. Etym: [OE. clodde, latter form of clot. See Clot.]

1. A lump or mass, especially of earth, turf, or clay. "Clods of a
slimy substance." Carew. "Clods of iron and brass." Milton.
"Clods of blood." E. Fairfax.
The earth that casteth up from the plow a great clod, is not so good
as that which casteth up a smaller clod. Bacon.

2. The ground; the earth; a spot of earth or turf.
The clod Where once their sultan's horse has trod. Swift.

3. That which is earthy and of little relative value, as the body of
man in comparison with the soul.
This cold clod of clay which we carry about with us. T. Burnet.

4. A dull, gross, stupid fellow; a dolt Dryden.

5. A pert of the shoulder of a beef creature, or of the neck piece
near the shoulder. See Illust. of Beef.

CLOD
Clod, v.i

Defn: To collect into clods, or into a thick mass; to coagulate; to
clot; as, clodded gore. See Clot.
Clodded in lumps of clay. G. Fletcher.

CLOD
Clod, v. t.

1. To pelt with clods. Jonson.

2. To throw violently; to hurl. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

CLODDISH
Clod"dish, a.

Defn: Resembling clods; gross; low; stupid; boorish. Hawthorne.
 -- Clod"dish*ness, n.

CLODDY
Clod"dy, a.

Defn: Consisting of clods; full of clods.

CLODHOPPER
Clod"hop`per, n.

Defn: A rude, rustic fellow.

CLODHOPPING
Clod"hop`ping, a.

Defn: Boorish; rude. C. Bronté.

CLODPATE
Clod"pate`, n.

Defn: A blockhead; a dolt.

CLODPATED
Clod"pat`ed, a.

Defn: Stupid; dull; doltish.

CLODPOLL
Clod"poll`, n. Etym: [Clod + poll head.]

Defn: A stupid fellow; a dolt. [Written also clodpole.] Shak.

CLOFF
Cloff, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Formerly an allowance of two pounds in every three hundred
weight after the tare and tret are subtracted; now used only in a
general sense, of small deductions from the original weight. [Written
also clough.] McCulloch.

CLOG
Clog, n. Etym: [OE. clogge clog, Scot. clag, n., a clot, v., to to
obstruct, cover with mud or anything adhesive; prob. of the same
origin as E. clay.]

1. That which hinders or impedes motion; hence, an encumbrance,
restraint, or impediment, of any kind.
All the ancient, honest, juridical principles and institutions of
England are so many clogs to check and retard the headlong course of
violence and opression. Burke.

2. A weight, as a log or block of wood, attached to a man or an
animal to hinder motion.
As a dog . . . but chance breaks loose, And quits his clog. Hudibras.
A clog of lead was round my feet. Tennyson.

3. A shoe, or sandal, intended to protect the feet from wet, or to
increase the apparent stature, and having, therefore, a very thick
sole. Cf. Chopine.
In France the peasantry goes barefoot; and the middle sort . . .
makes use of wooden clogs. Harvey.
Clog almanac, a primitive kind of almanac or calendar, formerly used
in England, made by cutting notches and figures on the four edges of
a clog, or square piece of wood, brass, or bone; -- called also a
Runic staff, from the Runic characters used in the numerical
notation.
 -- Clog dance, a dance performed by a person wearing clogs, or
thick-soled shoes.
 -- Clog dancer.

CLOG
Clog, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clogged; p. pr. & vb. n. Clogging.]

1. To encumber or load, especially with something that impedes
motion; to hamper.
The winds of birds were clogged with ace and snow. Dryden.

2. To obstruct so as to hinder motion in or through; to choke up; as,
to clog a tube or a channel.

3. To burden; to trammel; to embarrass; to perplex.
The commodities are clogged with impositions. Addison.
You 'll rue the time That clogs me with this answer. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Impede; hinder; obstruct; embarrass; burden; restrain; restrict.

CLOG
Clog, v. i.

1. To become clogged; to become loaded or encumbered, as with
extraneous matter.
In working through the bone, the teeth of the saw will begin to clog.
S. Sharp.

2. To coalesce or adhere; to unite in a mass.
Move it sometimes with a broom, that the seeds clog not together.
Evelyn.

CLOGGINESS
Clog"gi*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being clogged.

CLOGGING
Clog"ging, n.

Defn: Anything which clogs. Dr. H. More.

CLOGGY
Clog"gy, a.

Defn: Clogging, or having power to clog.

CLOISONNE
Cloi`son*né, a. Etym: [F., partitioned, fr. cloison a partition.]

Defn: Inlaid between partitions: -- said of enamel when the lines
which divide the different patches of fields are composed of a kind
of metal wire secured to the ground; as distinguished from champlevé
enamel, in which the ground is engraved or scooped out to receive the
enamel. S. Wells Williams.

CLOISTER
Clois"ter, n. Etym: [OF. cloistre, F. cloître, L. claustrum, pl.
claustra, bar, bolt, bounds, fr. claudere, clausum, to close. See
Close, v. t., and cf. Claustral.]

1. An inclosed place. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A covered passage or ambulatory on one side of a court; (pl.) the
series of such passages on the different sides of any court, esp.
that of a monastery or a college.
But let my due feet never fail To walk the studious cloister's pale.
Milton.

3. A monastic establishment; a place for retirement from the world
for religious duties.
Fitter for a cloister than a crown. Daniel.
Cloister garth (Arch.), the garden or open part of a court inclosed
by the cloisters.

Syn.
 -- Cloister, Monastery, Nunnery, Convent, Abbey, Priory. Cloister
and convent are generic terms, and denote a place of seclusion from
the world for persons who devote their lives to religious purposes.
They differ is that the distinctive idea of cloister is that of
seclusion from the world, that of convent, community of living. Both
terms denote houses for recluses of either sex. A cloister or convent
for monks is called a monastery; for nuns, a nunnery. An abbey is a
convent or monastic institution governed by an abbot or an abbess; a
priory is one governed by a prior or a prioress, and is usually
affiliated to an abbey.

CLOISTER
Clois"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cloistered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cloistering.]

Defn: To confine in, or as in, a cloister; to seclude from the world;
to immure.
None among them are throught worthy to be styled religious persons
but those that cloister themselves up in a monastery. Sharp.

CLOISTERAL
Clois"ter*al, a.

Defn: Cloistral. [Obs.] I. Walton.

CLOISTERED
Clois"tered, a.

1. Dwelling in cloisters; solitary. "Cloistered friars and vestal
nuns." Hudibras.
In cloistered state let selfish sages dwell, Proud that their heart
is narrow as their cell. Shenstone.

2. Furnished with cloisters. Sir H. Wotton.

CLOISTERER
Clois"ter*er, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. cloistier.]

Defn: One belonging to, or living in, a cloister; a recluse.

CLOISTRAL
Clois"tral, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or confined in, a cloister; recluse.
[Written also cloisteral.]
Best become a cloistral exercise. Daniel.

CLOISTRESS
Clois"tress, n.

Defn: A nun. [R.] Shak.

CLOKE
Cloke, n. & v.

Defn: See Cloak. [Obs.]

CLOMB; CLOMBEN
Clomb, Clomb"en,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Climb (for climbed). [Obs.]
The sonne, he sayde, is clomben up on hevene. Chaucer.

CLOMP
Clomp, n.

Defn: See Clamp.

CLONG
Clong,

Defn: imp. of Cling. [Obs.]

CLONIC
Clon"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. clonique.] (Med.)

Defn: Having an irregular, convulsive motion. Dunglison. Clonic
spasm. (Med.) See under Spasm.

CLONUS
Clo"nus, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  violent, confused motion.] (Med.)

Defn: A series of muscular contractions due to sudden stretching of
the muscle, -- a sign of certain neuropathies.

CLOOM
Cloom, v. t. Etym: [A variant of clam to clog.]

Defn: To close with glutinous matter. [Obs.] Mortimer.

CLOOP
Cloop, n. Etym: [An onomatopoeia.]

Defn: The sound made when a cork is forcibly drawn from a bottle.
"The cloop of a cork wrenched from a bottle." Thackeray.

CLOOT
Cloot, n. [Cf. G. dial. kleuzen to split.] (Scot. & Dial. Eng.)

1. One of the divisions of a cleft hoof, as in the ox; also, the
whole hoof.

2.  The Devil; Clootie; -- usually in the pl.  Burns.

CLOOTIE
Cloot"ie, n. (Scot. & Dial. Eng.)

1.

Defn: A little hoof.

2.  The Devil. "Satan, Nick, or Clootie."  Burns.

CLOSE
Close, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Closed; p. pr. & vb. n. Closing.] Etym:
[From OF. & F. clos, p. p. of clore to close, fr. L. claudere; akin
to G. schliessen to shut, and to E. clot, cloister, clavicle,
conclude, sluice. Cf. Clause, n.]

1. To stop, or fill up, as an opening; to shut; as, to close the
eyes; to close a door.

2. To bring together the parts of; to consolidate; as, to close the
ranks of an army; -- often used with up.

3. To bring to an end or period; to conclude; to complete; to finish;
to end; to consummate; as, to close a bargain; to close a course of
instruction.
One frugal supper did our studies close. Dryden.

4. To come or gather around; to inclose; to encompass; to confine.
The depth closed me round about. Jonah ii. 5.
But now thou dost thyself immure and close In some one corner of a
feeble heart. Herbert.
A closed sea, a sea within the jurisdiction of some particular
nation, which controls its navigation.

CLOSE
Close, v. i.

1. To come together; to unite or coalesce, as the parts of a wound,
or parts separated.
What deep wounds ever closed without a scar Byron.

2. To end, terminate, or come to a period; as, the debate closed at
six o'clock.

3. To grapple; to engange in hand-to-hand fight.
They boldly closed in a hand-to-hand contest. Prescott.
To close on or upon, to come to a mutual agreement; to agree on or
join in. "Would induce France and Holland to close upon some measures
between them to our disadvantage." Sir W. Temple.
 -- To close with. (a) To accede to; to consent or agree to; as, to
close with the terms proposed. (b) To make an agreement with.
 -- To close with the land (Naut.), to approach the land.

CLOSE
Close, n.

1. The manner of shutting; the union of parts; junction. [Obs.]
The doors of plank were; their close exquisite. Chapman.

2. Conclusion; cessation; ending; end.
His long and troubled life was drawing to a close. Macaulay.

3. A grapple in wrestling. Bacon.

4. (Mus.)
(a) The conclusion of a strain of music; cadence.
(b) A double bar marking the end.
At every close she made, the attending throng Replied, and bore the
burden of the song. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Conclusion; termination; cessation; end; ending; extremity;
extreme.

CLOSE
Close ( or ), n. Etym: [OF. & F. clos an inclosure, fr. clos, p. p.
of clore. See Close, v. t.]

1. An inclosed place; especially, a small field or piece of land
surrounded by a wall, hedge, or fence of any kind; -- specifically,
the precinct of a cathedral or abbey.
Closes surrounded by the venerable abodes of deans and canons.
Macaulay.

2. A narrow passage leading from a street to a court, and the houses
within. [Eng.] Halliwell

3. (Law)

Defn: The interest which one may have in a piece of ground, even
though it is not inclosed. Bouvier.

CLOSE
Close, a. [Compar. Closer; superl. Closest.] Etym: [Of. & F. clos, p.
p. of clore. See Close, v. t.]

1. Shut fast; closed; tight; as, a close box.
From a close bower this dainty music flowed. Dryden.

2. Narrow; confined; as, a close alley; close quarters. "A close
prison." Dickens.

3. Oppressive; without motion or ventilation; causing a feeling of
lassitude; -- said of the air, weather, etc.
If the rooms be low-roofed, or full of windows and doors, the one
maketh the air close, . . . and the other maketh it exceeding
unequal. Bacon.

4. Strictly confined; carefully quarded; as, a close prisoner.

5. Out of the way observation; secluded; secret; hidden. "He yet kept
himself close because of Saul." 1 Chron. xii. 1
"Her close intent." Spenser.

6. Disposed to keep secrets; secretive; reticent. "For servecy, no
lady closer." Shak.

7. Having the parts near each other; dense; solid; compact; as
applied to bodies; viscous; tenacious; not volatile, as applied to
liquids.
The golden globe being put into a press, . . . the water made itself
way through the pores of that very close metal. Locke.

8. Concise; to the point; as, close reasoning. "Where the original is
close no version can reach it in the same compass." Dryden.

9. Adjoining; near; either in space; time, or thought; -- often
followed by to.
Plant the spring crocuses close to a wall. Mortimer.
The thought of the Man of sorrows seemed a very close thing -- not a
faint hearsay. G. Eliot.

10. Short; as, to cut grass or hair close.

11. Intimate; familiar; confidential.
League with you I seek And mutual amity, so strait, so close, That I
with you must dwell, or you with me. Milton.

12. Nearly equal; almost evenly balanced; as, a close vote. "A close
contest." Prescott.

13. Difficult to obtain; as, money is close. Bartlett.

14. Parsimonious; stingy. "A crusty old fellow, as close as a vise."
Hawthorne.

15. Adhering strictly to a standard or original; exact; strict; as, a
close translation. Locke.

16. Accurate; careful; precise; also, attentive; undeviating; strict;
not wandering; as, a close observer.

17. (Phon.)

Defn: Uttered with a relatively contracted opening of the mouth, as
certain sounds of e and o in French, Italian, and German; -- opposed
to open. Close borough. See under Borough.
 -- Close breeding. See under Breeding.
 -- Close communion, communion in the Lord's supper, restricted to
those who have received baptism by immersion.
 -- Close corporation, a body or corporation which fills its own
vacancies.
 -- Close fertilization. (Bot.) See Fertilization.
 -- Close harmony (Mus.), compact harmony, in which the tones
composing each chord are not widely distributed over several octaves.
 -- Close time, a fixed period during which killing game or catching
certain fish is prohibited by law.
 -- Close vowel (Pron.), a vowel which is pronounced with a
diminished aperture of the lips, or with contraction of the cavity of
the mouth.
 -- Close to the wind (Naut.), directed as nearly to the point from
which the wind blows as it is possible to sail; closehauled; -- said
of a vessel.

CLOSE
Close, adv.

1. In a close manner.

2. Secretly; darkly. [Obs.]
A wondrous vision which did close imply The course of all her fortune
and posterity. Spenser.

CLOSE-BANDED
Close"-band`ed, a.

Defn: Closely united.

CLOSE-BARRED
Close"-barred`, a.

Defn: Firmly barred or closed.

CLOSE-BODIED
Close"-bod`ied, a.

Defn: Fitting the body exactly; setting close, as a garment. Ayliffe.

CLOSE-FIGHTS
Close"-fights`, n. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Barriers with loopholes, formerly erected on the deck of a
vessel to shelter the men in a close engagement with an enemy's
boarders; -- called also close quarters. [Obs.]

CLOSEFISTED
Close"fist`ed, a.

Defn: Covetous; niggardly. Bp. Berkeley. "Closefisted contractors."
Hawthorne.

CLOSEHANDED
Close"hand`ed, a.

Defn: Covetous; penurious; stingy; closefisted.
 -- Close"hand`ed*ness, n.

CLOSEHAULED
Close"hauled`, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Under way and moving as nearly as possible toward the direction
from which the wind blows; -- said of a sailing vessel.

CLOSELY
Close"ly, adv.

1. In a close manner.

2. Secretly; privately. [Obs.]
That nought she did but wayle, and often steepe Her dainty couch with
tears which closely she did weepe. Spenser.

CLOSEMOUTHED
Close"mouthed`, a.

Defn: Cautious in speaking; secret; wary; uncommunicative.

CLOSEN
Clos"en, v. t.

Defn: To make close. [R.]

CLOSENESS
Close"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being close.
Half stifled by the closeness of the room. Swift.
We rise not against the piercing judgment of Augustus, nor the
extreme caution or closeness of Tiberius. Bacon.
An affectation of closeness and covetousness. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Narrowness; oppressiveness; strictness; secrecy; compactness;
conciseness; nearness; intimacy; tightness; stinginess; literalness.

CLOSER
Clos"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, closes; specifically, a boot closer. See
under Boot.

2. A finisher; that which finishes or terminates.

3. (Masonry)

Defn: The last stone in a horizontal course, if of a less size than
the others, or a piece of brick finishing a course. Gwilt.

CLOSEREEFED
Close"reefed`, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Having all the reefs taken in; -- said of a sail.

CLOSE-STOOL
Close"-stool`, n.

Defn: A utensil to hold a chamber vessel, for the use of the sick and
infirm. It is usually in the form of a box, with a seat and tight
cover.

CLOSET
Clos"et, n. Etym: [OF. closet little inclosure, dim. of clos. See
Close an inclosure.]

1. A small room or apartment for retirement; a room for privacy.
A chair-lumbered closet, just twelve feet by nine. Goldsmith.
When thou prayest, enter into thy closet. Matt. vi. 6.

2. A small apartment, or recess in the side of a room, for household
utensils, clothing, etc. Dryden. Closet sin, sin commited in privacy.
Bp. Hall.

CLOSET
Clos"et, v. t. [imp. & p. pr. & vb. n. Closeting.]

1. To shut up in, or as in, a closet; to conceal. [R.]
Bedlam's closeted and handcuffed charge. Cowper.

2. To make into a closet for a secret interview.
He was to call a new legislature, to closet its members. Bancroft.
He had been closeted with De Quadra. Froude.

CLOSE-TONGUED
Close"-tongued` (, a.

Defn: Closemouthed; silent. "Close-tongued treason." Shak.

CLOSH
Closh, n. Etym: [CF. F. clocher to limp, halt.]

Defn: A disease in the feet of cattle; laminitis. Crabb.

CLOSH
Closh, n. Etym: [CF. D. klossen to play at bowls.]

Defn: The game of ninepins. [Obs.] Halliwell.

CLOSURE
Clo"sure (, 135), n. Etym: [Of. closure, L. clausura, fr. clauedere
to shut. See Close, v. t.]

1. The act of shutting; a closing; as, the closure of a chink.

2. That which closes or shuts; that by which separate parts are
fastened or closed.
Without a seal, wafer, or any closure whatever. Pope.

3. That which incloses or confines; an inclosure.
O thou bloody prison . . . Within the guilty closure of thy walls
Richard the Second here was hacked to death. Shak.

4. A conclusion; an end. [Obs.] Shak.

5. (Parliamentary Practice)

Defn: A method of putting an end to debate and securing an immediate
vote upon a measure before a legislative body. It is similar in
effect to the previous question. It was first introduced into the
British House of Commons in 1882. The French word clôture was
originally applied to this proceeding.

CLOT
Clot, n. Etym: [OE. clot, clodde, clod; akin to D. kloot ball, G.
kloss clod, dumpling, klotz block, Dan. klods, Sw. klot bowl, globe,
klots block; cf. AS. clate bur. Cf. Clod, n., Clutter to clot.]

Defn: A concretion or coagulation; esp. a soft, slimy, coagulated
mass, as of blood; a coagulum. "Clots of pory gore." Addison.
Doth bake the egg into clots as if it began to poach. Bacon.

Note: Clod and clot appear to be radically the same word, and are so
used by early writers; but in present use clod is applied to a mass
of earth or the like, and clot to a concretion or coagulation of soft
matter.

CLOT
Clot, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Clotting.]

Defn: To concrete, coagulate, or thicken, as soft or fluid matter by
evaporation; to become a cot or clod.

CLOT
Clot, v. t.

Defn: To form into a slimy mass.

CLOTBUR
Clot"bur`, n. Etym: [Cf. Clote.]

1. The burdock. [Prov. Engl.] Prior.

2. Same as Cocklebur.

CLOTE
Clote, n. Etym: [AS. cl: cf. G. klette.]

Defn: The common burdock; the clotbur. [Obs.] Wyclif.

CLOTH
Cloth, n.; pl. Cloths (#; 115), except in the sense of garments, when
it is Clothes (klothz or kloz). Etym: [OE. clath cloth, AS. cla\'ed
cloth, garment; akin to D. kleed, Icel. klæ\'ebi, Dan. klæde, cloth,
Sw. kläde, G. kleid garment, dress.]

1. A fabric made of fibrous material (or sometimes of wire, as in
wire cloth); commonly, a woven fabric of cotton, woolen, or linen,
adapted to be made into garments; specifically, woolen fabrics, as
distinguished from all others.

2. The dress; raiment. [Obs.] See Clothes.
I'll ne'er distust my God for cloth and bread. Quarles.

3. The distinctive dress of any profession, especially of the clergy;
hence, the clerical profession.
Appeals were made to the priesthood. Would they tamely permit so
gross an insult to be offered to their cloth Macaulay.
The cloth, the clergy, are constituted for administering and for
giving the best possible effect to . . . every axiom. I. Taylor.
Body cloth. See under Body.
 -- Cloth of gold, a fabric woven wholly or partially of threads of
gold.
 -- Cloth measure, the measure of length and surface by which cloth
is measured and sold. For this object the standard yard is usually
divided into quarters and nails.
 -- Cloth paper, a coarse kind of paper used in pressing and
finishing woolen cloth.
 -- Cloth shearer, one who shears cloth and frees it from superfluous
nap.

CLOTHE
Clothe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clothed ( or Clad; p. pr. & vb. n.
Clothing.] Etym: [OE. clathen, clothen, clethen, AS. cla\'ebian,
clæ\'eban. See Cloth.]

1. To put garments on; to cover with clothing; to dress.
Go with me, to clothe you as becomes you. Shak.

2. To provide with clothes; as, to feed and clothe a family; to
clothe one's self extravagantly.
Drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags. Prov. xxiii. 21
The naked every day he clad, When he put on his clothes. Goldsmith.

3. Fig.: To cover or invest, as with a garment; as, to clothe one
with authority or power.
Language in which they can clothe their thoughts. Watts.
His sides are clothed with waving wood. J. Dyer.
Thus Belial, with with words clothed in reason's garb. Milton.

CLOTHE
Clothe, v. i.

Defn: To wear clothes. [Poetic]
Care no more to clothe eat. Shak.

CLOTHES
Clothes ( or ; 277), n. pl. Etym: [From Cloth.]

1. Covering for the human body; dress; vestments; vesture; -- a
general term for whatever covering is worn, or is made to be worn,
for decency or comfort.
She . . . speaks well, and has excellent good clothes. Shak.
If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole. Mark. v. 28.

2. The covering of a bed; bedclothes.
She turned each way her frighted head, Then sunk it deep beneath the
clothes. Prior.
Body clothes. See under Body.
 -- Clothes moth (Zoöl.), a small moth of the genus Tinea. The most
common species (T. flavifrontella)is yellowish white. The larvæ eat
woolen goods, furs, feathers, etc. They live in tubular cases made of
the material upon which they feed, fastened together with silk.

Syn.
 -- Garments; dress; clothing; apparel; attire; vesture; raiment;
garb; costume; habit; habiliments.

CLOTHESHORSE
Clothes"horse`, n.

Defn: A frame to hang clothes on.

CLOTHESLINE
Clothes"line`, n.

Defn: A rope or wire on which clothes are hung to dry.

CLOTHESPIN
Clothes"pin` ( or ), n.

Defn: A forked piece of wood, or a small spring clamp, used for
fastening clothes on a line.

CLOTHESPRESS
Clothes"press`, n.

Defn: A receptacle for clothes.

CLOTHIER
Cloth"ier, n.

1. One who makes cloths; one who dresses or fulls cloth. Hayward.

2. One who sells cloth or clothes, or who makes and sells clothes.

CLOTHING
Cloth"ing, n.

1. Garments in general; clothes; dress; raiment; covering.
From others he shall stand in need of nothing, Yet on his brothers
shall depend for clothing. Milton.
As for me, . . . my clothing was sackloth. Ps. xxxv. 13

2. The art of process of making cloth. [R.]
Instructing [refugees] in the art of clothing. Ray.

3. A covering of non-conducting material on the outside of a boiler,
or steam chamber, to prevent radiation of heat. Knight.

4. (Mach.)

Defn: See Card clothing, under 3d Card.

CLOTHRED
Clot"hred, p. p.

Defn: Clottered. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLOTPOLL
Clot"poll`, n.

Defn: See Clodpoll. [Obs.] Shak.

CLOTTED
Clot"ted, a.

Defn: Composed of clots or clods; having the quality or form of a
clot; sticky; slimy; foul. "The clotted glebe." J. Philips.
When lust . . . Lets in defilement to the inward parts, The soul
grows clotted by contagion. Milton.

CLOTTER
Clot"ter, v. i. Etym: [From Clot.]

Defn: To concrete into lumps; to clot. [Obs.] "Clottered blood."
Chapman.

CLOTTY
Clot"ty, a. Etym: [From Clot, n.]

Defn: Full of clots, or clods. "Clotty matter." Harvey.

CLOTURE
Clô`ture", n. Etym: [F.] (Parliamentary Practice)

Defn: See Closure, 5.

CLOTWEED
Clot"weed`, n. Etym: [See Clote.]

Defn: Cocklebur.

CLOUD
Cloud, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. AS. cld a rock or hillock, the application
arising from the frequent resemblance of clouds to rocks or hillocks
in the sky or air.]

1. A collection of visible vapor, or watery particles, susponded in
the upper atmosphere.
I do set my bow in the cloud. Gen. ix. 13.

Note: A classification of clouds according to their chief forms was
first proposed by the meteorologist Howard, and this is still
substantially employed. The following varieties and subvarieties are
recognized: (a) Cirrus. This is the most elevated of all the forms of
clouds; is thin, long-drawn, sometimes looking like carded wool or
hair, sometimes like a brush or room, sometimes in curl-like or
fleecelike patches. It is the cat's-tail of the sailor, and the
mare's-tail of the landsman. (b) Cumulus. This form appears in large
masses of a hemispherical form, or nearly so, above, but flat below,
one often piled above another, forming great clouds, common in the
summer, and presenting the appearance of gigantic mountains crowned
with snow. It often affords rain and thunder gusts. (c) Stratus. This
form appears in layers or bands extending horizontally. (d) Nimbus.
This form is characterized by its uniform gray tint and ragged edges;
it covers the sky in seasons of continued rain, as in easterly
storms, and is the proper rain cloud. The name is sometimes used to
denote a raining cumulus, or cumulostratus. (e) Cirro-cumulus. This
form consists, like the cirrus, of thin, broken, fleecelice clouds,
but the parts are more or less rounded and regulary grouped. It is
popularly called mackerel sky. (f) Cirro-stratus. In this form the
patches of cirrus coalesce in long strata, between cirrus and
stratus. (g) Cumulo-stratus. A form between cumulus and stratus,
often assuming at the horizon a black or bluish tint.
 -- Fog, cloud, motionless, or nearly so, lying near or in contact
with the earth's surface.
 -- Storm scud, cloud lying quite low, without form, and driven
rapidly with the wind.

2. A mass or volume of smoke, or flying dust, resembling vapor. "A
thick cloud of incense." Ezek. viii. 11.

3. A dark vein or spot on a lighter material, as in marble; hence, a
blemish or defect; as, a cloud upon one's reputation; a cloud on a
title.

4. That which has a dark, lowering, or threatening aspect; that which
temporarily overshadows, obscures, or depresses; as, a cloud of
sorrow; a cloud of war; a cloud upon the intellect.

5. A great crowd or multitude; a vast collection. "So great a cloud
of witnesses." Heb. xii. 1.

6. A large, loosely-knitted scarf, worn by women about the head.
Cloud on a (or the) title (Law), a defect of title, usually
superficial and capable of removal by release, decision in equity, or
legislation.
 -- To be under a cloud, to be under suspicion or in disgrace; to be
in disfavor.
 -- In the clouds, in the realm of facy and imagination; beyond
reason; visionary.

CLOUD
Cloud, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clouded; p. pr. & vb. n. Clouding.]

1. To overspread or hide with a cloud or clouds; as, the sky is
clouded.

2. To darken or obscure, as if by hiding or enveloping with a cloud;
hence, to render gloomy or sullen.
One day too late, I fear me, noble lord, Hath clouded all thy happy
days on earth. Shak.
Be not disheartened, then, nor cloud those looks. Milton.
Nothing clouds men's minds and impairs their honesty like prejudice.
M. Arnold.

3. To blacken; to sully; to stain; to tarnish; to damage; -- esp.
used of reputation or character.
I would not be a stander-by to hear My sovereign mistress clouded so,
without My present vengeance taken. Shak.

4. To mark with, or darken in, veins or sports; to variegate with
colors; as, to cloud yarn.
And the nice conduct of a clouded cane. Pope.

CLOUD
Cloud, v. i.

Defn: To grow cloudy; to become obscure with clouds; -- often used
with up.
Worthies, away! The scene begins to cloud. Shak.

CLOUDAGE
Cloud"age, n.

Defn: Mass of clouds; cloudiness. [R.]
A scudding cloudage of shapes. Coleridge.

CLOUDBERRY
Cloud"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of raspberry (Rubus Chamæmerous) growing in the
northern regions, and bearing edible, amber-colored fruit.

CLOUD-BUILT
Cloud"-built, a.

Defn: Built of, or in, the clouds; airy; unsubstantial; imaginary.
Cowper.
So vanished my cloud-built palace. Goldsmith.

CLOUD-BURST
Cloud"-burst`, n.

Defn: A sudden copious rainfall, as the whole cloud had been
precipitated at once.

CLOUD-CAPPED
Cloud"-capped`, a.

Defn: Having clouds resting on the top or head; reaching to the
clouds; as, cloud-capped mountains.

CLOUD-COMPELLER
Cloud"-com*pel`ler, n.

Defn: Cloud-gatherer; -- an epithet applied to Zeus. [Poetic.] Pope.

CLOUDILY
Cloud"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cloudy manner; darkly; obscurely. Dryden.

CLOUDINESS
Cloud"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being cloudy.

CLOUDING
Cloud"ing, n.

1. A mottled appearance given to ribbons and silks in the process of
dyeing.

2. A diversity of colors in yarn, recurring at regular intervals.
Knight.

CLOUDLAND
Cloud"land`, n.

Defn: Dreamland.

CLOUDLESS
Cloud"less, a.

Defn: Without a cloud; clear; bright.
A cloudless winter sky. Bankroft.
-- Cloud"less*ly, adv.
 -- Cloud"less*ness, n.

CLOUDLET
Cloud"let, n.

Defn: A little cloud. R. Browning.
Eve's first star through fleecy cloudlet peeping. Coleridge.

CLOUDY
Cloud"y (, a. [Compar. Cloudier (; superl. Cloudiest.] Etym: [From
Cloud, n.]

1. Overcast or obscured with clouds; clouded; as, a cloudy sky.

2. Consisting of a cloud or clouds.
As Moses entered into the tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended.
Ex. xxxiii. 9

3. Indicating gloom, anxiety, sullenness, or ill-nature; not open or
cheerful. "A cloudy countenance." Shak.

4. Confused; indistinct; obscure; dark.
Cloudy and confused notions of things. Watts.

5. Lacking clearness, brightness, or luster. "A cloudy diamond."
Boyle.

6. Marked with veins or sports of dark or various hues, as marble.

CLOUGH
Clough, n. Etym: [OE. clough, cloghe, clou, clewch, AS. (assumed)
cloh, akin to G. klinge ravine.]

1. A cleft in a hill; a ravine; a narrow valley. Nares.

2. A sluice used in returning water to a channel after depositing its
sediment on the flooded land. Knight.

CLOUGH
Clough, n. (Com.)

Defn: An allowance in weighing. See Cloff.

CLOUT
Clout, n. Etym: [AS. clut a little cloth, piece of metal; cf. Sw.
klut, Icel. klutr a kerchief, or W. clwt a clout, Gael. clud.]

1. A cloth; a piece of cloth or leather; a patch; a rag.
His garments, nought but many ragged clouts, With thorns together
pinned and patched was. Spenser.
A clout upon that head where late the diadem stood. Shak.

2. A swadding cloth.

3. A piece; a fragment. [Obs.] Chaucer.

4. The center of the butt at which archers shoot; -- probably once a
piece of white cloth or a nail head.
A'must shoot nearer or he'll ne'er hit the clout. Shak.

5. An iron plate on an axletree or other wood to keep it from
wearing; a washer.

6. A blow with the hand. [Low] Clout nail, a kind of wrought-iron
nail heaving a large flat head; -- used for fastening clouts to
axletrees, plowshares, etc., also for studding timber, and for
various purposes.

CLOUT
Clout, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clouted; p. pr. & vb. n. Clouting.] Etym:
[OE. clutien. clouten, to patch. See Clout, n.]

1. To cover with cloth, leather, or other material; to bandage;
patch, or mend, with a clout.
And old shoes and clouted upon their feet. Josh. ix. 5.
Paul, yea, and Peter, too, had more skill in . . . clouting an old
tent than to teach lawyers. Latimer.

2. To join or patch clumsily.
If fond Bavius vent his clouted song. P. Fletcher

3. To quard with an iron plate, as an axletree.

4. To give a blow to; to strike. [Low]
The . . . queen of Spain took off one of her chopines and clouted
Olivarez about the noddle with it. Howell.

5. To stud with nails, as a timber, or a boot sole. Clouted cream,
clotted cream, i. e., cream obtained by warming new milk. A. Philips.

Note: "Clouted brogues" in Shakespeare and "clouted shoon" in Milton
have been understood by some to mean shoes armed with nails; by
others, patched shoes.

CLOUTERLY
Clout"er*ly, a. Etym: [From Clout, n.]

Defn: Clumsy; awkward. [Obs.]
Rough-hewn, cloutery verses. E. Phillips.

CLOVE
Clove,

Defn: imp. of Cleave. Cleft. Spenser. Clove hitch (Naut.) See under
Hitch.
 -- Clove hook (Naut.), an iron two-part hook, with jaws overlapping,
used in bending chain sheets to the clews of sails; -- called also
clip hook. Knight.

CLOVE
Clove, n. Etym: [D. kloof. See Cleave, v. t.]

Defn: A cleft; a gap; a ravine; -- rarely used except as part of a
proper name; as, Kaaterskill Clove; Stone Clove.

CLOVE
Clove, n. Etym: [OE. clow, fr. F. clou nail, clou de girofle a clove,
lit. nail of clove, fr. L. clavus nail, perh. akin to clavis key, E.
clavicle. The clove was so called from its resemblance to a nail. So
in D. kruidnagel clove, lit. herb-nail or spice-nail. Cf. Cloy.]

Defn: A very pungent aromatic spice, the unexpanded flower bud of the
clove tree (Eugenia, or Caryophullus, aromatica), a native of the
Molucca Isles. Clove camphor. (Chem.) See Eugenin.
 -- Clove gillyflower, Clove pink (Bot.), any fragrant self-colored
carnation.

CLOVE
Clove, n. Etym: [AS. clufe an ear of corn, a clove of garlic; cf.
cleófan to split, E. cleave.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the small bulbs developed in the axils of the scales of
a large bulb, as in the case of garlic.
Developing, in the axils of its skales, new bulbs, of what gardeners
call cloves. Lindley.

2. A weight. A clove of cheese is about eight pounds, of wool, about
seven pounds. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

CLOVEN
Clo"ven, p. p. & a.

Defn: from Cleave, v. t. To show the cloven foot or hoof, to reveal a
devilish character, or betray an evil purpose, notwithstanding
disguises, -- Satan being represented dramatically and symbolically
as having cloven hoofs.

CLOVEN-FOOTED; CLOVEN-HOOFED
Clo"ven-foot`ed, Clo"ven-hoofed`, a.

Defn: Having the foot or hoof divided into two parts, as the ox.

CLOVER
Clo"ver, n. Etym: [OE. claver, clover, AS. cl; akin to LG. & Dan.
klever, D. klaver, G. klee, Sw. kl.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of differend species of the genus Trifolium; as the
common red clover, T. pratense, the white, T. repens, and the hare's
foot, T. arvense. Clover weevil (Zoöl.) a small weevil (Apion
apricans), that destroys the seeds of clover.
 -- Clover worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a small moth (Asopia costalis),
often very destructive to clover hay.
 -- In clover, in very pleasant circumstances; fortunate. [Colloq.] -
- Sweet clover. See Meliot.

CLOVERED
Clo"vered, a.

Defn: Covered with growing clover.
Flocks thick nibbling through the clovered vale. Thomson.

CLOWE-GILOFRE
Clowe"-gi*lof`re, n. Etym: [See 3d Clove, and Gilliflower.]

Defn: Spice clove. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLOWN
Clown, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. klunni a clumsy, boorish fellow, North
Fries. kl clown, dial. Sw. klunn log, Dan. klunt log block, and E.
clump, n.]

1. A man of coarse nature and manners; an awkward fellow; an illbred
person; a boor. Sir P. Sidney.

2. One who works upon the soil; a rustic; a churl.
The clown, the child of nature, without guile. Cowper.

3. The fool or buffoon in a play, circus, etc.
The clown shall make those laugh whose lungs are tickle o'the sere.
Shak.

CLOWN
Clown, v. i.

Defn: To act as a clown; -- with it [Obs.]
Beclowns it properly indeed. B. Jonson.

CLOWNAGE
Clown"age, n.

Defn: Behavior or manners of a clown; clownery. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

CLOWNERY
Clown"er*y, n.

Defn: Clownishness. L'Estrange.

CLOWNISH
Clown"ish, a.

Defn: Of or resembling a clown, or characteristic of a clown;
ungainly; awkward. "Clownish hands." Spenser. "Clownish mimic."
Prior.
 -- Clown"ish*ly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Coarse; rough; clumsy; awkward; ungainly; rude; uncivil; ill-
bred; boorish; rustic; untutored.

CLOWNISHNESS
Clown"ish*ness, n.

Defn: The manners of a clown; coarseness or rudeness of behavior.
That plainness which the alamode people call clownishness. Locke.

CLOY
Cloy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cloyed (kloid); p. pr. & vb. n. Cloying.]
Etym: [OE. cloer to nail up, F. clouer, fr. OF. clo nail, F. clou,
fr. L. clavus nail. Cf. 3d Clove.]

1. To fill or choke up; to stop up; to clog. [Obs.]
The duke's purpose was to have cloyed the harbor by sinking ships,
laden with stones. Speed.

2. To glut, or satisfy, as the appetite; to satiate; to fill to
loathing; to surfeit.
[Who can] cloy the hungry edge of appetite By bare imagination of a
feast Shak.
He sometimes cloys his readers instead of satisfying. Dryden.

3. To penetrate or pierce; to wound.
Which, with his cruel tusk, him deadly cloyed. Spenser.
He never shod horse but he cloyed him. Bacon.

4. To spike, as a cannon. [Obs.] Johnson.

5. To stroke with a claw. [Obs.] Shak.

CLOYLESS
Cloy"less, a.

Defn: That does not cloy. Shak.

CLOYMENT
Cloy"ment, n.

Defn: Satiety. [Obs.] Shak.

CLUB
Club, n. Etym: [CF. Icel. klubba, klumba, club, klumbuf a clubfoot,
SW. klubba club, Dan. klump lump, klub a club, G. klumpen clump,
kolben club, and E. clump.]

1. A heavy staff of wood, usually tapering, and wielded the hand; a
weapon; a cudgel.
But make you ready your stiff bats and clubs; Rome and her rats are
at the point of battle. Shak.

2. Etym: [Cf. the Spanish name bastos, and Sp. baston staff, club.]

Defn: Any card of the suit of cards having a figure like the trefoil
or clover leaf. (pl.) The suit of cards having such figure.

3. An association of persons for the promotion of some common object,
as literature, science, politics, good fellowship, etc.; esp. an
association supported by equal assessments or contributions of the
members.
They talked At wine, in clubs, of art, of politics. Tennyson.
He [Goldsmith] was one of the nine original members of that
celebrated fraternity which has sometimes been called the Literary
Club, but which has always disclaimed that epithet, and still glories
in the simple name of the Club. Macaulay.

4. A joint charge of expense, or any person's share of it; a
contribution to a common fund.
They laid down the club. L'Estrange.
We dined at a French house, but paid ten shillings for our part of
the club. Pepys.
Club law, government by violence; lynch law; anarchy. Addison. -Club
moss (Bot.), an evergreen mosslike plant, much used in winter
decoration. The best know species is Lycopodium clavatum, but other
Lycopodia are often called by this name. The spores form a highly
inflammable powder.
 -- Club root (Bot.), a disease of cabbages, by which the roots
become distorted and the heads spoiled.
 -- Club topsail (Naut.), a kind of gaff topsail, used mostly by
yachts having a fore-and-aft rig. It has a short "club" or "jack
yard" to increase its spread.

CLUB
Club, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clubbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Clubbing.]

1. To beat with a club.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: To throw, or allow to fall, into confusion.
To club a battalion implies a temporary inability in the commanding
officer to restore any given body of men to their natural front in
line or column. Farrow.

3. To unite, or contribute, for the accomplishment of a common end;
as, to club exertions.

4. To raise, or defray, by a proportional assesment; as, to club the
expense. To club a musket (Mil.), to turn the breach uppermost, so as
to use it as a club.

CLUB
Club, v. i.

1. To form a club; to combine for the promotion of some common
object; to unite.
Till grosser atoms, tumbling in the stream Of fancy, madly met, and
clubbed into a dream. Dryden.

2. To pay on equal or proportionate share of a common charge or
expense; to pay for something by contribution.
The owl, the raven, and the bat, Clubbed for a feather to his hat.
Swift.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: To drift in a current with an anchor out.

CLUBBABLE
Club"ba*ble, a.

Defn: Suitable for membership in a club; sociable. [Humorous.] G. W.
Curtis.

CLUBBED
Clubbed, a.

Defn: Shaped like a club; grasped like, or used as, a club. Skelton.

CLUBBER
Club"ber, n.

1. One who clubs.

2. A member of a club. [R.] Massinger.

CLUBBISH
Club"bish, a.

1. Rude; clownish. [Obs.]

2. Disposed to club together; as, a clubbish set.

CLUBBIST
Club"bist, n.

Defn: A member of a club; a frequenter of clubs. [R.] Burke.

CLUBFIST
Club"fist`, n.

1. A large, heavy fist.

2. A coarse, brutal fellow. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag.

CLUBFISTED
Club"fist`ed, a.

Defn: Having a large fist. Howell.

CLUBFOOT
Club"foot, n. Etym: [Club + foot.] (Med.)

Defn: A short, variously distorted foot; also, the deformity, usually
congenital, which such a foot exhibits; talipes.

CLUBFOOTED
Club"foot`ed, a.

Defn: Having a clubfoot.

CLUBHAND
Club"hand`, n. (Med.)

Defn: A short, distorted hand; also, the deformity of having such a
hand.

CLUBHAUL
Club"haul`, v. t. (Naut.)

Defn: To put on the other tack by dropping the lee anchor as soon as
the wind is out of the sails (which brings the vessel's head to the
wind), and by cutting the cable as soon as she pays off on the other
tack. Clubhauling is attempted only in an exigency.

CLUBHOUSE
Club"house`, n.

Defn: A house occupied by a club.

CLUBROOM
Club"room`, n.

Defn: The apartment in which a club meets. Addison.

CLUB-RUSH
Club"-rush`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A rushlike plant, the reed mace or cat-tail, or some species of
the genus Scirpus. See Bulrush.

CLUB-SHAPED
Club"-shaped, a.

Defn: Enlarged gradually at the end, as the antennæ of certain
insects.

CLUCK
Cluck, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clucked; p pr. & vb. n. Clucking.] Etym:
[AS. cloccian; cf. D. klokken, G. glucken, glucksen, LG. klukken,
Dan. klukke; all prob. of imitative origin.]

Defn: To make the noise, or utter the call, of a brooding hen. Ray.

CLUCK
Cluck, v. t.

Defn: To call together, or call to follow, as a hen does her
chickens.
She, poor hen, fond of no second brood, Has clucked three to the
wars. Shak.

CLUCK
Cluck, n.

1. The call of a hen to her chickens.

2. A click. See 3d Click, 2.

CLUCKING
Cluck"ing, n.

Defn: The noise or call of a brooding hen.

CLUE
Clue, n. Etym: [See Clew, n.]

Defn: A ball of thread; a thread or other means of guidance. Same as
Clew.
You have wound a goodly clue. Shak.
This clue once found unravels all the rest. Pope.
Serve as clues to guide us into further knowledge. Locke.

CLUM
Clum, interj.

Defn: Silence; hush. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLUMBER
Clum"ber, n. Etym: [Named from the estate of the Duke of Newcastle.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of field spaniel, with short legs and stout body, which,
unlike other spaniels, hunts silently.

CLUMP
Clump, n. Etym: [Cf. D. klomp lump, G. klump, klumpen, Dan. klump,
Sw. kllimp; perh. akin to L. globus, E. globe. Cf. Club.]

1. An unshaped piece or mass of wood or other substance.

2. A cluster; a group; a thicket.
A clump of shrubby trees. Hawthorne.

3. The compressed clay of coal strata. Brande & C.

CLUMP
Clump, v. t.

Defn: To arrange in a clump or clumps; to cluster; to group.
Blackmore.

CLUMP
Clump, v. i.

Defn: To tread clumsily; to clamp. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

CLUMPER
Clump"er, v. t. Etym: [Cf. G. klümpern to clod. See Clump, n.]

Defn: To form into clumps or masses. [Obs.]
Vapors . . . clumpered in balls of clouds. Dr. H. More.

CLUMPS
Clumps, n.

Defn: A game in which questions are asked for the purpose of enabling
the questioners to discover a word or thing previously selected by
two persons who answer the questions; -- so called because the
players take sides in two "clumps" or groups, the "clump" which
guesses the word winning the game.

CLUMPY
Clump"y, a. Etym: [From Clump, n.]

Defn: Composed of clumps; massive; shapeless. Leigh Hunt.

CLUMSILY
Clum"si*ly, adv.

Defn: In a clumsy manner; awkwardly; as, to walk clumsily.

CLUMSINESS
Clum"si*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being clusy.
The drudging part of life is chiefly owing to clumsiness and
ignorance. Collier.

CLUMSY
Clum"sy, a. [Compar. Clumsier; superl. Clumsiest.] Etym: [OE. clumsed
benumbed, fr. clumsen to be benumbed; cf. Icel. klumsa lockjaw, dial.
Sw. klummsen benumbed with cold. Cf. 1st Clam, and 1st Clamp.]

1. Stiff or benumbed, as with cold. [Obs.]

2. Without skill or grace; wanting dexterity, nimbleness, or
readiness; stiff; awkward, as if benumbed; unwieldy; unhandy; hence;
ill-made, misshapen, or inappropriate; as, a clumsy person; a clumsy
workman; clumsy fingers; a clumsy gesture; a clumsy excuse.
But thou in clumsy verse, unlicked, unpointed, Hast shamefully defied
the Lord's anointed. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- See Awkward.

CLUNCH
Clunch, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. clinch to make fast]

Defn: .

1. (Mining)

Defn: Indurated clay. See Bind, n., 3.

2. One of the hard beds of the lower chalk. Dana.

CLUNG
Clung,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Cling.

CLUNG
Clung, a. Etym: [Prop. p. p. fr. OE. clingen to wither. See Cling, v.
i.]

Defn: Wasted away; shrunken. [Obs.]

CLUNIAC
Clu"ni*ac, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A monk of the reformed branch of the Benedictine Order, founded
in 912 at Cluny (or Clugny) in France.
 -- Also used as a.

CLUNIACENSIAN
Clu`ni*a*cen"sian, a.

Defn: Cluniac.

CLUPEOID
Clu"pe*oid, a. Etym: [L.clupea a kind of fish, NL., generic name of
the herring + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Herring family.

CLUSTER
Clus"ter, n. Etym: [AS. cluster, clyster; cf. LG. kluster (also Sw. &
Dan. klase a cluster of grapes, D. klissen to be entangled.)]

1. A number of things of the same kind growing together; a bunch.
Her deeds were like great clusters of ripe grapes, Which load the
bunches of the fruitful vine. Spenser.

2. A number of similar things collected together or lying contiguous;
a group; as, a cluster of islands. "Cluster of provinces." Motley.

3. A number of individuals grouped together or collected in one
place; a crowd; a mob.
As bees . . . Pour forth their populous youth about the hive In
clusters. Milton.
We loved him; but, like beasts And cowardly nobles, gave way unto
your clusters, Who did hoot him out o' the city. Shak.

CLUSTER
Clus"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clustered; p. pr. & vb. n. Clustering.]

Defn: To grow in clusters or assemble in groups; to gather or unite
in a cluster or clusters.
His sunny hair Cluster'd about his temples, like a god's. Tennyson.
The princes of the country clustering together. Foxe.

CLUSTER
Clus"ter, v. t.

Defn: To collect into a cluster or clusters; to gather into a bunch
or close body.
Not less the bee would range her cells, . . . The foxglove cluster
dappled bells. Tennyson.
Or from the forest falls the clustered snow. Thomson.
Clustered column (Arch.), a column which is composed, or appears to
be composed, of several columns collected together.

CLUSTERINGLY
Clus"ter*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In clusters.

CLUSTERY
Clus"ter*y, a. Etym: [From Cluster, n.]

Defn: Growing in, or full of, clusters; like clusters. Johnson.

CLUTCH
Clutch (kluch; 224), n. Etym: [OE. cloche, cloke, claw, Scot. clook,
cleuck, also OE. cleche claw, clechen, cleken, to seize; cf. AS.
gelæccan (where ge- is a prefix) to seize. Cf. Latch a catch.]

1. A gripe or clinching with, or as with, the fingers or claws;
seizure; grasp. "The clutch of poverty." Cowper.
An expiring clutch at popularity. Carlyle.
But Age, with his stealing steps, Hath clawed me in his clutch. Shak.

2. pl.

Defn: The hands, claws, or talons, in the act of grasping firmly; --
often figuratively, for power, rapacity, or cruelty; as, to fall into
the clutches of an adversary.
I must have . . . little care of myself, if I ever more come near the
clutches of such a giant. Bp. Stillingfleet.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: A device which is used for coupling shafting, etc., so as to
transmit motion, and which may be disengaged at pleasure.

4. Any device for gripping an object, as at the end of a chain or
tackle.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The nest complement of eggs of a bird. Bayonet clutch (Mach.),
a clutch in which connection is made by means of bayonets attached to
arms sliding on a feathered shaft. The bayonets slide through holes
in a crosshead fastened on the shaft.

CLUTCH
Clutch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clutched; p. pr. & vb. n. Clutching.]
Etym: [OE. clucchen. See Clutch, n.]

1. To seize, clasp, or gripe with the hand, hands, or claws; -- often
figuratively; as, to clutch power.
A man may set the poles together in his head, and clutch the whole
globe at one intellectual grasp. Collier.
Is this a dagger which I see before me . . . Come, let me clutch
thee. Shak.

2. To close tightly; to clinch.
Not that I have the power to clutch my hand. Shak.

CLUTCH
Clutch, v. i.

Defn: To reach (at something) as if to grasp; to catch or snatch; --
often followed by at.
Clutching at the phantoms of the stock market. Bankroft.

CLUTTER
Clut"ter, n. Etym: [Cf. W. cludair heap, pile, cludeirio to heap.]

1. A confused collection; hence, confusion; disorder; as, the room is
in a clutter.
He saw what a clutter there was with huge, overgrown pots, pans, and
spits. L'Estrange.

2. Clatter; confused noise. Swift.

CLUTTER
Clut"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cluttered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cluttering.]

Defn: To crowd together in disorder; to fill or cover with things in
disorder; to throw into disorder; to disarrange; as, to clutter a
room.

CLUTTER
Clut"ter, v. i.

Defn: To make a confused noise; to bustle.
It [the goose] cluttered here, it chuckled there. Tennyson.

CLUTTER
Clut"ter, v. t. Etym: [From Clod, n.]

Defn: To clot or coagulate, as blood. [Obs.] Holland.

CLYDESDALE
Clydes"dale, n.

Defn: One of a breed of heavy draft horses originally from
Clydesdale, Scotland. They are about sixteen hands high and usually
brown or bay.

CLYDESDALE TERRIER
Clydesdale terrier.

Defn: One of a breed of small silky-haired terriers related to, but
smaller than, the Skye terrier, having smaller and perfectly erect
ears.

CLYPEASTROID
Clyp`e*as"troid, a. Etym: [NL. Clypeaster (L. clupeus shield + aster
star) + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or related to the genus Clupeaster; -- applied to a group
of flattened sea urchins, with a rosette of pores on the upper side.

CLYPEATE
Clyp"e*ate, a. Etym: [L. clupeatus, p. p. of clupeare to arm with a
shield, fr. clupeus, clipeus shield.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a round buckler or shield; scutate.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Furnished with a shield, or a protective plate or shell.

CLYPEIFORM
Clyp"e*i*form`, a. Etym: [L. clupeus shield + -form.]

Defn: Shield-shaped; clypeate.

CLYPEUS
Clyp"e*us, n.; pl. Clypei. Etym: [L., a shield.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The frontal plate of the head of an insect.

CLYSMIAN
Clys"mi*an, a. Etym: [Gr. Clyster.]

Defn: Connected with, or related to, the deluge, or to a cataclysm;
as, clysmian changes. Smart.

CLYSMIC
Clys"mic, a.

Defn: Washing; cleansing.

CLYSTER
Clys"ter, n. Etym: [L., fr. G. hlutrs pure, G. lauter: cf. F.
clystère] (Med.)

Defn: A liquid injected into the lower intestines by means of a
syringe; an injection; an enema. Clyster pipe, a tube or pipe used
for injections.

CLYTIE KNOT
Cly"tie knot.

Defn: In hair dressing, a loose, low coil at the back of the head,
like the knot on the head of the bust of Clytie by G. F. Watts.

CNEMIAL
Cne"mi*al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the shin bone. Cnemial crest, a crestlike
prominence on the proximal end of the tibia of birds and some
reptiles.

CNIDA
Cni"da, n.; pl. Cnidæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the peculiar stinging, cells found in Coelenterata; a
nematocyst; a lasso cell.

CNIDARIA
Cni*da"ri*a, n., pl. Etym: [NL. See Cnida.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A comprehensive group equivalent to the true Coelenterata,
i.e., exclusive of the sponges. They are so named from presence of
stinging cells (cnidae) in the tissues. See Coelenterata.

CNIDOBLAST
Cni"do*blast, n. Etym: [Cnida + -blast.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the cells which, in the Coelenterata, develop into
cnidæ.

CNIDOCIL
Cni"do*cil, n. Etym: [Cnida + cilium eyelash.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The fine filiform process of a cnidoblast.

CO-
Co- (.

Defn: A form of the prefix com-, signifying with, together, in
conjunction, joint. It is used before vowels and some consonants. See
Com-.

COACERVATE
Co`a*cer"vate, a. Etym: [L. coacervatus, p. p. of coacervare to heap
up; co- + acervare. See Acervate.]

Defn: Raised into a pile; collected into a crowd; heaped. [R.] Bacon.

COACERVATE
Co`a*cer"vate, v. t.

Defn: To heap up; to pile. [R.]

COACERVATION
Co*ac`er*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. coacervatio.]

Defn: A heaping together. [R.] Bacon.

COACH
Coach (; 224), n. Etym: [F. coche, fr. It. cocchio, dim. of cocca
little boat, fr. L. concha mussel, mussel shell, Gr. çankha. Cf.
Conch, Cockboat, Cockle.]

1. A large, closed, four-wheeled carriage, having doors in the sides,
and generally a front and back seat inside, each for two persons, and
an elevated outside seat in front for the driver.

Note: Coaches have a variety of forms, and differ in respect to the
number of persons they can carry. Mail coaches and tallyho coaches
often have three or more seats inside, each for two or three persons,
and seats outside, sometimes for twelve or more.

2. A special tutor who assists in preparing a student for
examination; a trainer; esp. one who trains a boat's crew for a race.
[Colloq.]
Wareham was studying for India with a Wancester coach. G. Eliot.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A cabin on the after part of the quarterdeck, usually occupied
by the captain. [Written also couch.] [Obs.]
The commanders came on board and the council sat in the coach. Pepys.

4. (Railroad)

Defn: A first-class passenger car, as distinguished from a drawing-
room car, sleeping car, etc. It is sometimes loosely applied to any
passenger car.

COACH
Coach, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coached; p. pr. & vb. n. Coaching.]

1. To convey in a coach. Pope.

2. To prepare for public examination by private instruction; to train
by special instruction. [Colloq.]
I coached him before he got his scholarship. G. Eliot.

COACH
Coach, v. i.

Defn: To drive or to ride in a coach; -- sometimes used with it.
[Colloq.] "Coaching it to all quarters." E. Waterhouse.

COACHBOX
Coach"box`.

Defn: The seat of a coachman.

COACHDOG
Coach"dog`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a breed of dogs trained to accompany carriages; the
Dalmatian dog.

COACHEE
Coach"ee, n.

Defn: A coachman [Slang]

COACHER
Coach"er, n.

1. A coachman. [Obs.]

2.  A coach horse.

3.  One who coaches; specif. (Baseball),

Defn: one of the side at the bat posted near first or third base to
direct a base runner.

COACHFELLOW
Coach"fel`low, n.

Defn: One of a pair of horses employed to draw a coach; hence (Fig.),
a comrade. Shak.

COACHMAN
Coach"man, n.; pl. Coachmen.

1. A man whose business is to drive a coach or carriage.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tropical fish of the Atlantic ocean (Dutes auriga); -- called
also charioteer. The name refers to a long, lashlike spine of the
dorsal fin.

COACHMANSHIP
Coach"man*ship, n.

Defn: Skill in driving a coach.

COACHWHIP SNAKE
Coach"whip` snake". (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, slender, harmless snake of the southern United States
(Masticophis flagelliformis).

Note: Its long and tapering tail has the scales so arranged and
colored as to give it a braided appearance, whence the name.

COACT
Co*act", v. t. Etym: [L. coactare, intens. fr. cogere, coactum, to
force. See Cogent.]

Defn: To force; to compel; to drive. [Obs.]
The faith and service of Christ ought to be voluntary and not
coacted. Foxe.

COACT
Co*act", v. i. Etym: [Pref. co- + act, v.i.]

Defn: To act together; to work in concert; to unite. [Obs.]
But if I tell you how these two did coact. Shak.

COACTION
Co*ac"tion, n. Etym: [L. coactio.]

Defn: Force; compulsion, either in restraining or impelling. Sojth.

COACTIVE
Co*ac"tive, a. Etym: [In sense 1, fr. 1st Coact; in sense 2, fr. 2d
Coact.]

1. Serving to compel or constrain; compulsory; restrictive.
Any coactive power or the civil kind. Bp. Warburton.

2. Acting in concurrence; united in action.
With what's unreal thou coactive art. Shak.

COACTIVELY
Co*ac"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a coactive manner.

COACTIVITY
Co`ac*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: Unity of action.

COADAPTATION
Co*ad`ap*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Mutual adaption. R. Owen.

COADAPTED
Co`a*dapt"ed, a.

Defn: Adapted one to another; as, coadapted pulp and tooth. R. Owen.

COADJUMENT
Co*ad"ju*ment, n.

Defn: Mutual help; coöperation. [R.] Johnson.

COADJUST
Co`ad*just", v. t.

Defn: To adjust by mutual adaptations. R. Owen.

COADJUSTMENT
Co`ad*just"ment, n.

Defn: Mutual adjustment.

COADJUTANT
Co*ad"ju*tant, a.

Defn: Mutually assisting or operating; helping. J. Philips.

COADJUTANT
Co*ad"ju*tant, n.

Defn: An assistant. R. North.

COADJUTING
Co*ad"ju*ting, a.

Defn: Mutually assisting. [Obs.] Drayton.

COADJUTIVE
Co*ad"ju*tive, a.

Defn: Rendering mutual aid; coadjutant. Feltham.

COADJUTOR
Co`ad*ju"tor, n. Etym: [L. See Co-, and Aid.]

1. One who aids another; an assistant; a coworker.
Craftily outwitting her perjured coadjutor. Sheridan.

2. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The assistant of a bishop or of a priest holding a benefice.

COADJUTORSHIP
Co`ad*ju"tor*ship, n.

Defn: The state or office of a coadjutor; joint assistance. Pope.

COADJUTRESS; COADJUTRIX
Co`ad*ju"tress, Co`ad*ju"trix, n.

Defn: A female coadjutor or assistant. Holland. Smollett.

COADJUVANCY
Co*ad"ju*van*cy, n.

Defn: Joint help; coöperation. Sir T. Browne.

COADJUVANT
Co*ad"ju*vant, a.

Defn: Coöperating.

COADJUVANT
Co*ad"ju*vant, n. (Med.)

Defn: An adjuvant.

COADUNATE
Co*ad"u*nate, a. Etym: [L. coadunatus, p. p. of coadunare to unite.
See Adunation.] (Bot.)

Defn: United at the base, as contiguous lobes of a leaf.

COADUNATION
Co*ad`u*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. coadunatio.]

Defn: Union, as in one body or mass; unity. Jer. Taylor.
The coadunation of all the civilized provinces. Coleridge.

COADUNITION
Co*ad`u*ni"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. co- + pref. ad- + unition.]

Defn: Coadunation. [R.] Sir M. Hale.

COADVENTURE
Co`ad*ven"ture, n.

Defn: An adventure in which two or more persons are partakers.

COADVENTURE
Co`ad*ven"ture, v. i.

Defn: To share in a venture. Howell.

COADVENTURER
Co`ad*ven"tur*er, n.

Defn: A fellow adventurer.

COAFFOREST
Co`af*for"est, v. t.

Defn: To convert into, or add to, a forest. Howell.

COAG
Coag, n.

Defn: See Coak, a kind of tenon.

COAGENCY
Co*a"gen*cy, n.

Defn: Agency in common; joint agency or agent. Coleridge.

COAGENT
Co*a"gent, n.

Defn: An associate in an act; a coworker. Drayton.

COAGMENT
Co`ag*ment", v. t. Etym: [L. coagmentare, fr. coagmentum a joining
together, fr. cogere. See Cogent.]

Defn: To join together. [Obs.] Glanvill.

COAGMENTATION
Co*ag`men*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. coagmentatio.]

Defn: The act of joining, or the state of being joined, together;
union. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

COAGULABILITY
Co*ag`u*la*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being coagulable; capacity of being coagulated.
Ure.

COAGULABLE
Co*ag"u*la*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being coagulated. Boyle.

COAGULANT
Co*ag"u*lant, n. Etym: [L. coagulans, p. pr.]

Defn: That which produces coagulation.

COAGULATE
Co*ag"u*late, a. Etym: [L. coagulatus, p. p. of coagulare to
coagulate, fr. coagulum means of coagulation, fr. cogere, coactum, to
drive together, coagulate. See Cogent.]

Defn: Coagulated. [Obs.] Shak.

COAGULATE
Co*ag"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coagulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Coagulating.]

Defn: To cause (a liquid) to change into a curdlike or semisolid
state, not by evaporation but by some kind of chemical reaction; to
curdle; as, rennet coagulates milk; heat coagulates the white of an
egg.

COAGULATE
Co*ag"u*late, v. i.

Defn: To undergo coagulation. Boyle.

Syn.
 -- To thicken; concrete; curdle; clot; congeal.

COAGULATED
Co*ag"u*la`ted, a.

Defn: Changed into, or contained in, a coagulum or a curdlike mass;
curdled. Coagulated proteid (Physiol. Chem.), one of a class of
bodies formed in the coagulation of a albuminous substance by heat,
acids, or other agents.

COAGULATION
Co*ag`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. coagulatio.]

1. The change from a liquid to a thickened, curdlike, insoluble
state, not by evaporation, but by some kind of chemical reaction; as,
the spontaneous coagulation of freshly drawn blood; the coagulation
of milk by rennet, or acid, and the coagulation of egg albumin by
heat. Coagulation is generally the change of an albuminous body into
an insoluble modification.

2. The substance or body formed by coagulation.

COAGULATIVE
Co*ag"u*la*tive, a.

Defn: Having the power to cause coagulation; as, a coagulative agent.
Boyle.

COAGULATOR
Co*ag"u*la`tor, n.

Defn: That which causes coagulation. Hixley.

COAGULATORY
Co*ag"u*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving to coagulate; produced by coagulation; as, coagulatory
effects. Boyle.

COAGULUM
Co*ag"u*lum, n.; pl. Coagula. Etym: [L. See Coagulate, a.]

Defn: The thick, curdy precipitate formed by the coagulation of
albuminous matter; any mass of coagulated matter, as a clot of bloot.

COAITA
Co*ai"ta, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The native name of certain South American monkeys of the genus
Ateles, esp. A. paniscus. The black-faced coaita is Ateles ater. See
Illustration in Appendix.

COAK
Coak, n.

Defn: See Coke, n.

COAK
Coak, n.

1. (Carp.)

Defn: A kind of tenon connecting the face of a scarfed timber with
the face of another timber, or a dowel or pin of hard wood or iron
uniting timbers. [Also spelt coag.]

2. A metallic bushing or strengthening piece in the center of a
wooden block sheve.

COAK
Coak, v. t. (Carp.)

Defn: To unite, as timbers, by means of tenons or dowels in the edges
or face. Totten.

COAL
Coal, n. Etym: [AS. col; akin to D. kool, OHG. chol, cholo, G. kohle,
Icel. kol, pl., Sw. kol, Dan. kul; cf. Skr. jval to burn. Cf. Kiln,
Collier.]

1. A thoroughly charred, and extinguished or still ignited, fragment
from wood or other combustible substance; charcoal.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A black, or brownish black, solid, combustible substance, dug
from beds or veins in the earth to be used for fuel, and consisting,
like charcoal, mainly of carbon, but more compact, and often
affording, when heated, a large amount of volatile matter.

Note: This word is often used adjectively, or as the first part of
self-explaining compounds; as, coal-black; coal formation; coal
scuttle; coal ship. etc.

Note: In England the plural coals is used, for the broken mineral
coal burned in grates, etc.; as, to put coals on the fire. In the
United States the singular in a collective sense is the customary
usage; as, a hod of coal. Age of coal plants. See Age of Acrogens,
under Acrogen.
 -- Anthracite or Glance coal. See Anthracite.
 -- Bituminous coal. See under Bituminous.
 -- Blind coal. See under Blind.
 -- Brown coal, or Lignite. See Lignite.
 -- Caking coal, a bituminous coal, which softens and becomes pasty
or semi-viscid when heated. On increasing the heat, the volatile
products are driven off, and a coherent, grayish black, cellular mass
of coke is left.
 -- Cannel coal, a very compact bituminous coal, of fine texture and
dull luster. See Cannel coal.
 -- Coal bed (Geol.), a layer or stratum of mineral coal.
 -- Coal breaker, a structure including machines and machinery
adapted for crushing, cleansing, and assorting coal.
 -- Coal field (Geol.), a region in which deposits of coal occur.
Such regions have often a basinlike structure, and are hence called
coal basins. See Basin.
 -- Coal gas, a variety of carbureted hydrogen, procured from
bituminous coal, used in lighting streets, houses, etc., and for
cooking and heating.
 -- Coal heaver, a man employed in carrying coal, and esp. in putting
it in, and discharging it from, ships.
 -- Coal measures. (Geol.) (a) Strata of coal with the attendant
rocks. (b) A subdivision of the carboniferous formation, between the
millstone grit below and the Permian formation above, and including
nearly all the workable coal beds of the world.
 -- Coal oil, a general name for mineral oils; petroleum.
 -- Coal plant (Geol.), one of the remains or impressions of plants
found in the strata of the coal formation.
 -- Coal tar. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- To haul over the coals, to call to account; to scold or censure.
[Colloq.] -- Wood coal. See Lignite.

COAL
Coal, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coaled; p. pr. & vb. n. Coaling.]

1. To burn to charcoal; to char. [R.]
Charcoal of roots, coaled into great pieces. Bacon.

2. To mark or delineate with charcoal. Camden.

3. To supply with coal; as, to coal a steamer.

COAL
Coal, v. i.

Defn: To take in coal; as, the steaer coaled at Southampton.

COAL-BLACK
Coal"-black, a.

Defn: As black as coal; jet black; very black. Dryden.

COALERY
Coal"er*y, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Colliery.

COALESCE
Co`a*lesce", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Coalesced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Coalescing.] Etym: [L. coalescere, coalitium; co- + alescere to grow
up, incho. fr. alere to nourish. See Aliment, n.]

1. To grow together; to unite by growth into one body; as, the parts
separated by a wound coalesce.

2. To unite in one body or product; to combine into one body or
community; as, vapors coalesce.
The Jews were incapable of coalescing with other nations. Campbell.
Certain combinations of ideas that, once coalescing, could not be
shaken loose. De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- See Add.

COALESCENCE
Co`a*les"cence, n.

Defn: The act or state of growing together, as similar parts; the act
of uniting by natural affinity or attraction; the state of being
united; union; concretion.

COALESCENT
Co`a*les"cent, a. Etym: [L. coalescens, p. pr.]

Defn: Growing together; cohering, as in the organic cohesion of
similar parts; uniting.

COALFISH
Coal"fish`, n. Etym: [Named from the dark color of the back.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The pollock; -- called also, coalsey, colemie, colmey, coal
whiting, etc. See Pollock.
(b) The beshow or candlefish of Alaska.
(c) The cobia.

COALGOOSE
Coal"goose`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cormorant; -- so called from its black color.

COALITE
Co"a*lite, v. i. Etym: [L. coalitus, p. p. of coalescere. See
Coalesce.]

Defn: To unite or coalesce. [Obs.]
Let them continue to coalite. Bolingbroke.

COALITE
Co"a*lite, v. t.

Defn: To cause to unite or coalesce. [Obs.]
Time has by degrees blended . . . and coalited the conquered with the
conquerors. Burke.

COALITION
Co`a*li"tion, n. Etym: [LL. coalitio: cf. F. coalition. See
Coalesce.]

1. The act of coalescing; union into a body or mass, as of separate
bodies or parts; as, a coalition of atoms. Bentley.

2. A combination, for temporary purposes, of persons, parties, or
states, having different interests.
A coalition of the puritan and the blackleg. J. Randolph.
The coalition between the religious and worldly enemies of popery.
Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Alliance; confederation; confederacy; league; combination;
conjunction; conspiracy; union.

COALITIONER
Co`a*li"tion*er, n.

Defn: A coalitionist.

COALITIONIST
Co`a*li"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who joins or promotes a coalition; one who advocates
coalition.

CO-ALLY
Co`-al*ly", n.; pl. Co-allies.

Defn: A joint ally. Kent.

COAL-METER
Coal"-me`ter, n.

Defn: A licensed or official coal measurer in London. See Meter.
Simmonds.

COALMOUSE
Coal"mouse`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small species of titmouse, with a black head; the coletit.

COALPIT
Coal"pit`, n.

1. A pit where coal is dug.

2. A place where charcoal is made. [U. S.]

COALSACK
Coal"sack`, n.  [Coal + 2d sack.] (Astron.)

Defn: Any one of the spaces in the Milky Way which are very black,
owing to the nearly complete absence of stars; esp., the large space
near the Southern Cross sometimes called the Black Magellanic Cloud.

COAL TAR
Coal" tar`.

Defn: A thick, black, tarry liquid, obtained by the distillation of
bituminous coal in the manufacture of illuminating gas; used for
making printer's ink, black varnish, etc. It is a complex mixture
from which many substances have been obtained, especially
hydrocarbons of the benzene or aromatic series.

Note: Among its important ingredients are benzene, aniline, phenol,
naphtalene, anthracene, etc., which are respectively typical of many
dye stuffs, as the aniline dyes, the phthaleïns, indigo, alizarin,
and many flavoring extracts whose artificial production is a matter
of great commercial importance.

COAL-WHIPPER
Coal"-whip`per, n.

Defn: One who raises coal out of the hold of a ship. [Eng.] Dickens.

COAL WORKS
Coal" works.

Defn: A place where coal is dug, including the machinery for raising
the coal.

COALY
Coal"y, a. Etym: [From Coal, n.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, coal; containing coal; of the
nature of coal.

COAMINGS
Coam"ings, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. Comb a crest.] (Naut.)

Defn: Raised pieces of wood of iron around a hatchway, skylight, or
other opening in the deck, to prevent water from running bellow; esp.
the fore-and-aft pieces of a hatchway frame as distinguished from the
transverse head ledges. [Written also combings.]

COANNEX
Co`an*nex", v. t.

Defn: To annex with something else.

COAPTATION
Co`ap*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. coaptatio, fr. coaptare to fit together;
co- + aptare. See Aptate.]

Defn: The adaptation or adjustment of parts to each other, as of a
broken bone or dislocated joint.

COARCT; COARCTATE
Co*arct", Co*arc"tate, v. t. Etym: [See Coarctate, a.]

1. To press together; to crowd; to straiten; to confine closely.
[Obs.] Bacon.

2. To restrain; to confine. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

COARCTATE
Co*arc"tate, a. Etym: [L. coarctatus, p. p. of coarctare to press
together; co- + arctare to press together, from arctus, p. p. See
Arctation.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pressed together; closely connected; -- applied to insects
having the abdomen separated from the thorax only by a constriction.
Coarctate pupa (Zoöl.), a pupa closely covered by the old larval
skin, as in most Diptera.

COARCTATION
Co`arc*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. coarctatio.]

1. Confinement to a narrow space. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. Pressure; that which presses. [Obs.] Ray.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A stricture or narrowing, as of a canal, cavity, or orifice.

COARSE
Coarse, a. [Compar. Coarser; superl. Coarsest.] Etym: [As this word
was anciently written course, or cours, it may be an abbreviation of
of course, in the common manner of proceeding, common, and hence,
homely, made for common domestic use, plain, rude, rough, gross, e.
g., "Though the threads be course." Gascoigne. See Course.]

1. Large in bulk, or composed of large parts or particles; of
inferior quality or appearance; not fine in material or close in
texture; gross; thick; rough; -- opposed to fine; as, coarse sand;
coarse thread; coarse cloth; coarse bread.

2. Not refined; rough; rude; unpolished; gross; indelicate; as,
coarse manners; coarse language.
I feel Of what coarse metal ye are molded. Shak.
To copy, in my coarse English, his beautiful expressions. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Large; thick; rough; gross; blunt; uncouth; unpolished;
inelegant; indelicate; vulgar.

COARSE-GRAINED
Coarse"-grained`, a.

Defn: Having a coarse grain or texture, as wood; hence, wanting in
refinement.

COARSELY
Coarse"ly, adv.

Defn: In a coarse manner; roughly; rudely; inelegantly; uncivilly;
meanly.

COARSEN
Coars"en, v. t.

Defn: To make coarse or vulgar; as, to coarsen one's character. [R.]
Graham.

COARSENESS
Coarse"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being coarse; roughness; melegance;
vulgarity; grossness; as, coarseness of food, texture, manners, or
language. "The coarseness of the sackcloth." Dr. H. More.
Pardon the coarseness of the illustration. L'Estrange.
A coarseness and vulgarity in all the proceedings. Burke.

COARTICULATION
Co`ar*tic`u*la"tion, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The unoin or articulation of bones to form a joint.

CO-ASSESSOR
Co`-as*sess"or, n.

Defn: A joint assessor.

COAST
Coast, n. Etym: [OF. coste, F. côte, rib, hill, shore, coast, L.
costa rib, side. Cf. Accost, v. t., Cutlet.]

1. The side of a thing. [Obs.] Sir I. Newton.

2. The exterior line, limit, or border of a country; frontier border.
[Obs.]
From the river, the river Euphrates, even to the uttermost sea, shall
your coast be. Deut. xi. 24.

3. The seashore, or land near it.
He sees in English ships the Holland coast. Dryden.
We the Arabian coast do know At distance, when the species blow.
Waller.
The coast is clear, the danger is over; no enemy in sight. Dryden.
Fig.: There are no obstacles. "Seeing that the coast was clear,
Zelmane dismissed Musidorus." Sir P. Sidney. Coast guard. (a) A body
of men originally employed along the coast to prevent smuggling; now,
under the control of the admiralty, drilled as a naval reserve.
[Eng.] (b) The force employed in lifesaving stations along the
seacoast. [U. S.] -- Coast rat (Zoöl.), a South African mammal
(Bathyergus suillus), about the size of a rabbit, remarkable for its
extensive burrows; -- called also sand mole.
 -- Coast waiter, a customhouse officer who superintends the landing
or shipping of goods for the coast trade. [Eng.]

COAST
Coast, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Coasted; p. pr. & vb. n. Coasting.] Etym:
[OE. costien, costeien, costen, OF. costier, costoier, F. côtoyer,
fr. Of. coste coast, F. côte. See Coast, n.]

1. To draw or keep near; to approach. [Obs.]
Anon she hears them chant it lustily, And all in haste she coasteth
to the cry. Shak.

2. To sail by or near the shore.
The ancients coasted only in their navigation. Arbuthnot.

3. To sail from port to port in the same country.

4. Etym: [Cf. OF. coste, F. côte, hill, hillside.]

Defn: To slide down hill; to slide on a sled, upon snow or ice.
[Local, U. S.]

COAST
Coast, v. t.

1. To draw near to; to approach; to keep near, or by the side of.
[Obs.] Hakluyt.

2. To sail by or near; to follow the coast line of.
Nearchus, . . . not knowing the compass, was fain to coast that
shore. Sir T. Browne.

3. To conduct along a coast or river bank. [Obs.]
The Indians . . . coasted me along the river. Hakluyt.

COASTAL
Coast"al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cast.

COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY
Coast and Geodetic Survey.

Defn: A bureau of the United States government charged with the
topographic and hydrographic survey of the coast and the execution of
belts of primary triangulation and lines of precise leveling in the
interior. It now belongs to the Department of Commerce and Labor.

COASTER
Coast"er, n.

1. A vessel employed in sailing along a coast, or engaged in the
coasting trade.

2. One who sails near the shore.

COASTING
Coast"ing, a.

Defn: Sailing along or near a coast, or running between ports along a
coast. Coasting trade, trade carried on by water between neighboring
ports of the same country, as distinguished fron foreign trade or
trade involving long voyages.
 -- Coasting vessel, a vessel employed in coasting; a coaster.

COASTING
Coast"ing, n.

1. A sailing along a coast, or from port to port; a carrying on a
coasting trade.

2. Sliding down hill; sliding on a sled upon snow or ice. [Local, U.
S.]

COASTWISE; COASTWAYS
Coast"wise`, Coast"ways`, adv.

Defn: By way of, or along, the coast.

COAT
Coat (; 110), n. Etym: [OF. cote, F. cotte, petticoat, cotte d'armes
coat of arms, cotte de mailles coat of mail, LL. cota, cotta, tunic,
prob. of German origin; cf. OHG. chozzo coarse mantle, G. klotze, D.
kot, hut, E. cot. Cf. Cot a hut.]

1. An outer garment fitting the upper part of the body; especially,
such a garment worn by men.
Let each His adamantine coat gird well. Milton.

2. A petticoat. [Obs.] "A child in coats." Locke.

3. The habit or vesture of an order of men, indicating the order or
office; cloth.
Men of his coat should be minding their prayers. Swift.
She was sought by spirits of richest coat. Shak.

4. An external covering like a garment, as fur, skin, wool, husk, or
bark; as, the horses coats were sleek.
Fruit of all kinds, in coat Rough or smooth rined, or bearded husk,
or shell. Milton.

5. A layer of any substance covering another; a cover; a tegument;
as, the coats of the eye; the coats of an onion; a coat of tar or
varnish.

6. Same as Coat of arms. See below.
Hark, countrymen! either renew the fight, Or tear the lions out of
England's coat. Shak.

7. A coat card. See below. [Obs.]
Here's a trick of discarded cards of us! We were ranked with coats as
long as old master lived. Massinger.
Coat armor. See under Armor.
 -- Coat of arms (Her.), a translation of the French cotte d'armes, a
garment of light material worn over the armor in the 15th and 16th
centuries. This was often charged with the heraldic bearings of the
wearer. Hence, an heraldic achievement; the bearings of any person,
taken together.
 -- Coat card, a card bearing a coated figure; the king, queen, or
knave of playing cards. "`I am a coat card indeed.' `Then thou must
needs be a knave, for thou art neither king nor queen.'" Rowley.
 -- Coat link, a pair of buttons or studs joined by a link, to hold
together the lappels of a double-breasted coat; or a button with a
loop for a single-breasted coat.
 -- Coat of mail, a defensive garment of chain mail. See Chain mail,
under Chain.
 -- Mast coat (Naut.), a piece of canvas nailed around a mast, where
it passes through the deck, to prevent water from getting below.
 -- Sail coat (Naut.), a canvas cover laced over furled sails, and
the like, to keep them dry and clean.

COAT
Coat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coated; p. pr. & vb. n. Coating.]

1. To cover with a coat or outer garment.

2. To cover with a layer of any substance; as, to coat a jar with tin
foil; to coat a ceiling.

COATEE
Coat*ee", n.

Defn: A coat with short flaps.

COATI
Co*a"ti ( or , n. Etym: [From the native name: cf. F. coati.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A mammal of tropical America of the genus Nasua, allied to the
raccoon, but with a longer body, tail, and nose.

Note: The red coati (N. socialis), called also coati mondi, inhabits
Mexico and Central America. The brown coati (N. narica) is found in
Surinam and Brazil.

COATING
Coat"ing, n.

1. A coat or covering; a layer of any substance, as a cover or
protection; as, the coating of a retort or vial.

2. Cloth for coats; as, an assortment of coatings.

COATLESS
Coat"less, a.

Defn: Not wearing a coat; also, not possessing a coat.

COAX
Coax (; 110), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coaxed; p. pr. & vb. n. Coaxing.]
Etym: [Cf. OE. cokes fool, a person easily imposed upon, W. coeg
empty, foolish; F. coquin knave, rogue.]

Defn: To persuade by gentle, insinuating courtesy, flattering, or
fondling; to wheedle; to soothe.

Syn.
 -- To wheedle; cajole; flatter; persuade; entice.

COAX
Coax, n.

Defn: A simpleton; a dupe. [Obs.] Beau & Fl.

COAXATION
Co`ax*a"tion, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The act of croaking. [R] Dr. H. More.

COAXER
Coax"er, n.

Defn: One who coaxes.

COAXINGLY
Coax"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a coaxing manner; by coaxing.

COB
Cob, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. cop, copp, head, top, D. kop, G. kopf, kuppe,
LL. cuppa cup (cf. E. brainpan), and also W. cob tuft, spider, cop,
copa, top, summit, cobio to thump. Cf. Cop top, Cup, n.]

1. The top or head of anything. [Obs.] W. Gifford.

2. A leader or chief; a conspicuous person, esp. a rich covetous
person. [Obs.]
All cobbing country chuffs, which make their bellies and their bags
their god, are called rich cobs. Nash.

3. The axis on which the kernels of maize or indian corn grow. [U.
S.]

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spider; perhaps from its shape; it being round like a head.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young herring. B. Jonson.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish; -- also called miller's thumb.

7. A short-legged and stout horse, esp. one used for the saddle.
[Eng.]

8. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sea mew or gull; esp., the black-backed gull (Larus marinus).
[Written also cobb.]

9. A lump or piece of anything, usually of a somewhat large size, as
of coal, or stone.

10. A cobnut; as, Kentish cobs. See Cobnut. [Eng.]

11. Clay mixed with straw. [Prov. Eng.]
The poor cottager contenteth himself with cob for his walls, and
thatch for his covering. R. Carew.

12. A punishment consisting of blows inflicted on the buttocks with a
strap or a flat piece of wood. Wright.

13. A Spanish coin formerly current in Ireland, worth abiut 4s. 6d.
[Obs.] Wright. Cob coal, coal in rounded lumps from the size of an
egg to that of a football; -- called also cobbles. Grose.
 -- Cob loaf, a crusty, uneven loaf, rounded at top. Wright.
 -- Cob money, a kind of rudely coined gold and silver money of
Spanish South America in the eighteenth century. The coins were of
the weight of the piece of eight, or one of its aliquot parts.

COB
Cob, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cobbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Cobbing.]

1. To strike [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

2. (Mining)

Defn: To break into small pieces, as ore, so as to sort out its
better portions. Raymond.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: To punish by striking on the buttocks with a strap, a flat
piece of wood, or the like.

COBAEA
Co*bæ"a, n. Etym: [Named after D. Cobo, a Spanish botanist.]

Defn: A genus of climbing plants, native of Mexico and South America.
C. scandens is a consrvatory climber with large bell-shaped flowers.

COBALT
Co"balt (; 277, 74), n. Etym: [G. kobalt, prob. fr. kobold, kobel,
goblin, MHG. kobolt; perh. akin to G. koben pigsty, hut, AS. cofa
room, cofgodas household gods, Icel. kofi hut. If so, the ending -old
stands for older -walt, -wald, being the same as -ald in E. herald
and the word would mean ruler or governor in a house, house spirit,
the metal being so called by miners, because it was poisonous and
troublesome. Cf. Kobold, Cove, Goblin.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A tough, lustrous, reddish white metal of the iron group, not
easily fusible, and somewhat magnetic. Atomic weight 59.1. Symbol Co.

Note: It occurs in nature in combination with arsenic, sulphur, and
oxygen, and is obtained from its ores, smaltite, cobaltite, asbolite,
etc. Its oxide colors glass or any flux, as borax, a fine blue, and
is used in the manufacture of smalt. It is frequently associated with
nickel, and both are characteristic ingredients of meteoric iron.

2. A commercial name of a crude arsenic used as fly poison. Cobalt
bloom. Same as Erythrite.
 -- Cobalt blue, a dark blue pigment consisting of some salt of
cobalt, as the phosphate, ignited with alumina; -- called also cobalt
ultramarine, and Thenard's blue.
 -- Cobalt crust, earthy arseniate of cobalt.
 -- Cobalt glance. (Min.) See Cobaltite.
 -- Cobalt green, a pigment consisting essentially of the oxides of
cobalt and zinc; -- called also Rinman's green.
 -- Cobalt yellow (Chem.), a yellow crystalline powder, regarded as a
double nitrite of cobalt and potassium.

COBALTIC
Co*balt"ic (; 74), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cobaltique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- said
especially of those compounds in which cobalt has higher valence; as,
cobaltic oxide. Luteo-cobaltic compounds (Chem.), an extensive series
of complex yellow compounds of ammonia and cobaltic salts.
 -- Roseo-cobaltic compounds (Chem.), an extensive series of complex
red compounds of cobalt and ammonia. Modifications of these are the
purpureo-cobaltic compounds.

COBALTIFEROUS
Co`balt*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Cobalt + -ferous.] (Min.)

Defn: Containing cobalt.

COBALTINE; COBALTITE
Co"balt*ine, Co"balt*ite n. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a nearly silver-white color, composed of arsenic,
sulphur, and cobalt.

COBALTOUS
Co*balt"ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- said
esp. of cobalt compounds in which the metal has its lower valence.
Cobaltous chloride, a crystalline compound, CoCl2, of a pale rose
color when hydrous, blue when dehydrated. Its solution is used for a
sympathetic ink, the writing being nearly colorless when dried in the
air, owing to absorbed moisture, and becoming bright blue when
warmed.

COBBING
Cob"bing, a.

Defn: Haughty; purse-proud. See Cob, n., 2. [Obs.] Withals (1608).

COBBLE
Cob"ble, n.

Defn: A fishing boat. See Coble.

COBBLE
Cob"ble, n. Etym: [From Cob a lump. See Cob, n., 9, and cf. Copple,
Copplestone.]

1. A cobblestone. "Their slings held cobbles round." Fairfax.

2. pl.

Defn: Cob coal. See under Cob.

COBBLE
Cob"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cobbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Cobbling.]
Etym: [OF. cobler, copler, to join or knit together, couple, F.
coupler, L. copulare to couple, join. Cf. Couple, n. & v. t.]

1. To make or mend coarsely; to patch; to botch; as, to cobble shoes.
Shak. "A cobbled saddle." Thackeray.

2. To make clumsily. "Cobbled rhymes." Dryden.

3. To pave with cobblestones.

COBBLER
Cob"bler, n.

1. A mender of shoes. Addison.

2. A clumsy workman. Shak.

3. A beverage. See Sherry cobbler, under Sherry. Cobbler fish
(Zoöl.), a marine fish (Blepharis crinitus) of the Atlantic. The name
alludes to its threadlike fin rays.

COBBLESTONE
Cob"ble*stone`, n.

Defn: A large pebble; a rounded stone not too large to be handled; a
small boulder; -- used for paving streets and for other purposes.

COBBY
Cob"by, a. Etym: [From Cob, n.]

1. Headstrong; obstinate. [Obs.] Brockett.

2. Stout; hearty; lively. [Obs.]

COBELLIGERENT
Co`bel*lig"er*ent, a.

Defn: Carryng on war in conjunction with another power.

COBELLIGERENT
Co`bel*lig"er*ent, n.

Defn: A nation or state that carries on war in connection with
another.

COBIA
Co"bi*a, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An oceanic fish of large size (Elacate canada); the crabeater;
-- called also bonito, cubbyyew, coalfish, and sergeant fish.

COBIRON
Cob"i`ron, n. Etym: [From Cob the top.]

Defn: An andiron with a knob at the top. Bacon.

COBISHOP
Co`bish"op, n.

Defn: A joint or coadjutant bishop. Ayliffe.

COBLE
Co"ble, n. Etym: [AS. cuopel; cf. W. ceubal skiff, ferryboat.]

Defn: A flat-floored fishing boat with a lug sail, and a drop rudder
extending from two to four feet below the keel. It was originally
used on the stormy coast of Yorkshire, England.

COBNUT
Cob"nut`, n.

1. (Com.)

Defn: A large roundish variety of the cultivated hazelnut.

2. A game played by children with nuts.

COBOOSE
Co*boose", n.

Defn: See Caboose.

COBOURG
Co"bourg, n. Etym: [Named from the town of Coburg in Germany.]

Defn: A thin worsted fabric for women's dresses.

COBRA
Co"bra, n.

Defn: See Copra.

COBRA
Co"bra, n.

Defn: The cobra de capello.

COBRA DE CAPELLO
Co"bra de ca*pel"lo. Etym: [Pg., serpent of the hood.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hooded snake (Naia tripudians), a highly venomous serpent
inhabiting India.

COBSTONE
Cob"stone`, n.

Defn: Cobblestone. [Prov. Eng.]

COBSWAN
Cob"swan`, n.

Defn: A large swan. B. Jonson.

COBWALL
Cob"wall`, n. Etym: [Cob clay mixed with straw + wall.]

Defn: A wall made of clay mixed with straw.

COBWEB
Cob"web`, n. Etym: [Cob a spider + web.]

1. The network spread by a spider to catch its prey.

2. A snare of insidious meshes designed to catch the ignorant and
unwary.
I can not but lament thy splendid wit Entangled in the cobwebs of the
schools. Cowper.

3. That which is thin and unsubstantial, or flimsy and worthless;
rubbish.
The dust and cobwebs of that uncivil age. Sir P. Sidney.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European spotted flycatcher. Cobweb lawn, a fine linen,
mentioned in 1640 as being in pieces of fifteen yards. Beck. Draper's
Dict.
Such a proud piece of cobweb lawn. Beau. & Fl.
Cobweb micrometer, a micrometer in which threads of cobwed are
substituted for wires.

COBWEBBED
Cob"webbed`, a.

Defn: Abounding in cobwebs. "The cobwebbed cottage." Young.

COBWEBBY
Cob"web`by, a.

Defn: Abounding in cobwebs, or any fine web; resembling a cobweb.

COBWORK
Cob"work`, a.

Defn: Built of logs, etc., laid horizontally, with the ends
dovetailed together at the corners, as in a log house; in marine
work, often surrounding a central space filled with stones; as, a
cobwork dock or breakwater.

COCA
Co"ca, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. native name.]

Defn: The dried leaf of a South American shrub (Erythroxylon Coca).
In med., called Erythroxylon.

Note: Coca leaves resemble tea leaves in size, shape, and odor, and
are chewed (with an alkali) by natives of Peru and Bolivia to impart
vigor in prolonged exertion, or to sustain strength in absence of
food. Mexican coca, an American herb (Richardsonia scabra), yielding
a nutritious fodder. Its roots are used as a substitute for
ipecacuanha.

COCAGNE
Coc*agne", n. Etym: [F. cocagne, pays de cocagne; of uncertian
origin, cf. Prov. F. couque cake, Catal. coca, L. coquere to cook; as
if the houses in this country were covered with cakes. Cf. Cook,
Cockney.]

1. An imaginary country of idleness and luxury.

2. The land of cockneys; cockneydom; -- a term applied to London and
its suburbs. Smart.

COCAINE
Co"ca*ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A powerful alkaloid, C17H21NO4, obtained from the leaves of
coca. It is a bitter, white, crystalline substance, and is remarkable
for producing local insensibility to pain.

COCAINISM
Co*ca"in*ism, n. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition produced by the habitual and excessive use
of cocaine. -- Co*ca"in*ist, n.

COCAINIZE
Co*ca"in*ize, v. t.

Defn: To treat or anæsthetize with cocaine. -- Co*ca`in*i*za"tion
(#), n.

COCCIFEROUS
Coc*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. coccum a berry + -ferous. See Coccus.]

Defn: Bearing or producing berries; bacciferous; as, cocciferrous
trees or plants.

COCCINELLA
Coc`ci*nel"la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. coccineus scarlet-colored. See
Cochoneal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small beetles of many species. They and their larvæ
feed on aphids or plant lice, and hence are of great benefit to man.
Also called ladybirds and ladybugs.

COCCOBACTERIUM
Coc`co*bac*te"ri*um, n.; pl. Coccobacteria. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
bacterium. So called from its round shape.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of the round variety of bacteria, a vegetable organism,
generally less than a thousandth of a millimeter in diameter.

COCCOLITE
Coc"co*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. coccalite.] (Min.)

Defn: A granular variety of pyroxene, green or white in color.

COCCOLITH
Coc"co*lith, n. Etym: [Gr. -lith.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of a kind of minute, calcareous bodies, probably vegetable,
often abundant in deep-sea mud.

COCCOSPHERE
Coc"co*sphere, n. Etym: [Gr. sphere.] (Biol.)

Defn: A small, rounded, marine organism, capable of braking up into
coccoliths.

COCCOSTEUS
Coc*cos"te*us, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of Devonian ganoid fishes, having the broad
plates about the head studded with berrylike tubercles.

COCCULUS INDICUS
Coc"cu*lus In"di*cus, n. Etym: [NL. cocculus (dim. of L. coccum
kermes berry) + L. Indicus of India.] (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit or berry of the Anamirta Cocculus, a climbing plant
of the East Indies. It is a poisonous narcotic and stimulant.

COCCUS
Coc"cus, n.; pl. Cocci. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Cochineal.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the separable carpels of a dry fruit.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of hemipterous insects, including scale insects, and
the cochineal insect (Coccus cacti).

3. (Biol.)

Defn: A form of bacteria, shaped like a globule.

COCCYGEAL
Coc*cyg"e*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the coccyx; as, the coccygeal vertebræ.
Coccygeal glands (Zoöl.) , glands situated at the base of the tail of
birds. They secrete the oil with which the plumage is dressed.

COCCYGEOUS
Coc*cyg"e*ous, a.

Defn: Coccygeal. [R.]

COCCYX
Coc"cyx, n.; pl. L. Coccyges. Etym: [L., cuckoo, Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The end of the vertebral column beyond the sacrum in man and
tailless monkeys. It is composed of several vertebræ more or less
consolidated.

COCHINEAL
Coch"i*neal, Etym: [Sp. cochinilla, dim. from L. coccineus, coccinus,
scarlet, fr. coccum the kermes berry, G. Quercus coccifera; but cf.
also Sp. cochinilla wood louse, dim. of cochina sow, akin to F.
cochon pig.]

Defn: A dyestuff consisting of the dried bodies of females of the
Coccus cacti, an insect native in Mexico, Central America, etc., and
found on several species of cactus, esp. Opuntia cochinellifera.

Note: These insects are gathered from the plant, killed by the
application of heat, and exposed to the sun to dry. When dried they
resemble small, rough berries or seeds, of a brown or purple color,
and form the cochineal of the shops, which is used for making
carmine, and also as a red dye.

Note: Cochineal contains as its essential coloring matter carminic
acid, a purple red amorphous substance which yields carmine red.

COCHINEAL FIG
Coch"i*neal fig, (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of Central and Southern Anerica, of the Cactus familly,
extensively cultivated for the sake of the cochineal insect, which
lives on it.

COCHIN FOWL
Co"chin fowl`, (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large variety of the domestic fowl, originally from Cochin
China (Anam).

COCHLEA
Coch"le*a, n. Etym: [L., a snail, or snail shell, Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: An appendage of the labyrinth of the internal ear, which is
elongated and coiled into a spiral in mammals. See Ear.

COCHLEAR
Coch"le*ar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cochlea.

COCHLEARE
Coch`le*a"re, n. Etym: [L.]

1. A spoon. Andrews.

2. (Med)

Defn: A spoonful. Dungleson.

COCHLEARIFORM
Coch`le*ar"i*form, a. Etym: [Cochleare + -form.]

Defn: Spoon-shaped.

COCHLEARY
Coch"le*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. cochlearum penfor snails (meaning formerly
given, snail shell). See Cjchlea.]

Defn: Same as Cochleate.

COCHLEATE; COCHLEATED
Coch"le*ate, Coch"le*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. cochleatus spiral or screw-
formed. See Cochlea.]

Defn: Having the form of a snail shell; spiral; turbinated.

COCK
Cock, n. Etym: [AS. coc; of unkown origin, perh. in imitation of the
cry of the cock. Cf. Chicken.]

1. The male of birds, particulary of gallinaceous or domestic fowls.

2. A vane in the shape of a cock; a weathercock.
Drenched our steeples, drowned the cocks! Shak.

3. A chief man; a leader or master. [Humorous]
Sir Andrew is the cock of the club, since he left us. Addison.

4. The crow of a cock, esp. the first crow in the morning; cockcrow.
[Obs.]
He begins at curfew, and walks till the first cock. Shak.

5. A faucet or valve.

Note: Jonsons says, "The handly probably had a cock on the top;
things that were contrived to turn seem anciently to have had that
form, whatever was the reason." Skinner says, because it used to be
constructed in forma critæ galli, i.e., in the form of a cock's comb.

6. The style of gnomon of a dial. Chambers.

7. The indicator of a balance. Johnson.

8. The bridge piece which affords a bearing for the pivot of a
balance in a clock or watch. Knight. Ball cock. See under Ball.
 -- Chaparral cock. See under Chaparral.
 -- Cock and bull story, an extravagant, boastful story; a canard.
 -- Cock of the plains (Zoöl.) See Sage cock.
 -- Cock of the rock (Zoöl.), a South American bird (Rupicola
aurantia) having a beautiful crest.
 -- Cock of the walk, a chief or master; the hero of the hour; one
who has overcrowed, or got the better of, rivals or competitors.
 -- Cock of the woods. See Capercailzie.

COCK
Cock, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cocked; p. pr. & vb. n. Cocking.] Etym:
[Cf. Gael. coc to cock.]

1. To set erect; to turn up.
Our Lightfoot barks, and cocks his ears. Gay.
Dick would cock his nose in scorn. Swift.

2. To shape, as a hat, by turning up the brim.

3. To set on one side in a pert or jaunty manner.
They cocked their hats in each other's faces. Macaulay.

4. To turn (the eye) obliquely and partially close its lid, as an
expression of derision or insinuation. Cocked hat. (a) A hat with
large, stiff flaps turned up to a peaked crown, thus making its form
triangular; -- called also three-cornered hat. (b) A game similar to
ninepins, except that only three pins are used, which are set up at
the angles of a triangle.

COCK
Cock, v. i.

Defn: To strut; to swagger; to look big, pert, or menacing. Addison.

COCK
Cock, n.

Defn: The act of cocking; also, the turn so given; as, a cock of the
eyes; to give a hat a saucy cock.

COCK
Cock, n. Etym: [It. cocca notch of an arrow.]

1. The notch of an arrow or crossbow.

2. The hammer in the lock of a firearm. At cock, At full cock, with
the hammer raised and ready to fire; -- said of firearms, also,
jocularly, of one prepared for instant action.
 -- At half cock. See under Half.
 -- Cock feather (Archery), the feather of an arrow at right angles
to the direction of the cock or notch. Nares.

COCK
Cock, v. t.

Defn: To draw the hammer of (a firearm) fully back and set it for
firing.

COCK
Cock, v. i.

Defn: To draw back the hammer of a firearm, and set it for firing.
Cocked, fired, and missed his man. Byron.

COCK
Cock, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kökkr lump, Dan. kok heap, or E. cock to
set erect.]

Defn: A small concial pile of hay.

COCK
Cock, v. t.

Defn: To put into cocks or heaps, as hay.
Under the cocked hay. Spenser.

COCK
Cock, n. Etym: [Of. coque, F. coche, a small vessel, L. concha muscle
shell, a vessel. See Coach, and cf.Cog

Defn: A small boat.
Yond tall anchoring bark [appears] Diminished to her cock; her cock,
a buoy Almost too small for sight. Shak.

COCK
Cock, n.

Defn: A corruption or disguise of the word God, used in oaths. [Obs.]
"By cock and pie." Shak.

COCKADE
Cock*ade", n. Etym: [F. cocarble, fr. coquard vain, OF. coquart, fr.
coq cock, prob. of imitative origin. The ornament is so named from
its resemblance to the crest of a cock. Cf. Coquette.]

Defn: A badge, usually in the form of a rosette, or knot, and
generally worn upon the hat; -- used as an indication of military or
naval service, or party allegiance, and in England as a part of the
livery to indicate that the wearer is the servant of a military or
naval officer.
Seduced by military liveries and cockades. Burke.

COCKADED
Cock*ad"ed, a.

Defn: Wearing a cockade. Young.

COCK-A-HOOP
Cock`-a-hoop", a.

Defn: Boastful; defiant; exulting. Also used adverbially.

COCKAL
Cock"al, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

1. A game played with sheep's bones instead of dice [Obs.]

2. The bone used in playing the game; -- called also huckle bone.
[Obs.] Nares.
A little transverse bone Which boys and bruckeled children call
(Playing for points and pins) cockal. Herrick.

COCKALEEKIE
Cock`a*leek"ie, n. Etym: [From cock + leek.]

Defn: A favorite soup in Scotland, made from a capon highly seasoned,
and boiled with leeks and prunes.

COCKAMAROO
Cock`a*ma*roo", n.

Defn: The Russian variety of bagatelle.

COCKATEEL
Cock"a*teel, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Australian parrot (Calopsitta Novæ-Hollandiæ); -- so called
from its note.

COCKATOO
Cock`a*too, n. Etym: [Malayan kakatua.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of the Parrot family, of the subfamily Cacatuinæ, having
a short, strong, and much curved beak, and the head ornamented with a
crest, which can be raised or depressed at will. There are several
genera and many species; as the broad-crested (Plictolophus, or
Cacatua, cristatus), the sulphur-crested (P. galeritus), etc. The
palm or great black cockatoo of Australia is Microglossus aterrimus.
Cock"a*trice, n. Etym: [OF. cocatrice crocodile, F. cocatrix,
cocatrice. The word is a corruption from the same source as E.
crocodile, but was confused with cock the bird, F. coq, whence arose
the fable that the animal was produced from a cock's egg. See
Crocodile.]

1. A fabulous serpent whose breath and look were said to be fatal.
See Basilisk.
That bare vowel, I, shall poison more Than the death-darting eye of
cockatrice. Shak.

2. (Her.)

Defn: A representation of this serpent. It has the head, wings, and
legs of a bird, and tail of a serpent.

3. (Script.)

Defn: A venomous serpent which which cannot now be identified.
The weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice's

Note: [Rev. Ver. basilisk's] den. Is. xi. 8.

4. Any venomous or deadly thing.
This little cockatrice of a king. Bacon.

COCKATRICE
Cock"a*trice (-tris; 277), n. [OF. cocatrice crocodile, F. cocatrix,
cocatrice. The word is a corruption from the same source as E.
crocodile, but was confused with cock the bird, F. coq, whence arose
the fable that the animal was produced from a cock's egg. See
Crocodile.]

1. A fabulous serpent whose breath and look were said to be fatal.
See Basilisk.

That bare vowel, I, shall poison more
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice.
Shak.

2. (Her.) A representation of this serpent. It has the head, wings,
and legs of a bird, and tail of a serpent.

3. (Script.) A venomous serpent which which cannot now be identified.

The weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice's [Rev. Ver.
basilisk's] den.
Is. xi. 8.

4. Any venomous or deadly thing.

This little cockatrice of a king.
Bacon.

COCKBILL
Cock"bill, v. t. Etym: [See Cock to set erect.] (Naut.)

Defn: To tilt up one end of so as to make almost vertical; as, to
cockbill the yards as a sign of mourning. To cockbill the anchor, to
suspend it from the cathead preparatory to letting it go. See
Acockbill.

COCKBOAT
Cock"boat`, n. Etym: [See Cock a boat.]

Defn: A small boat, esp. one used on rivers or near the shore.

COCK-BRAINED
Cock"-brained`, a.

Defn: Giddy; rash. Milton.

COCKCHAFER
Cock"chaf`er, n. Etym: [See Chafer the beetle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beetle of the genus Melolontha (esp. M. vulgaris) and allied
genera; -- called also May bug, chafer, or dorbeetle.

COCKCROW; COCKCROWING
Cock"crow, Cock"crow`ing, n.

Defn: The time at which cooks first crow; the early morning.

COCKER
Cock"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cockered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cockering.]
Etym: [OE. cokeren; cf. W. cocru to indulge, fondle, E. cock the
bird, F. coqueliner to dandle (Cotgrave), to imitate the crow of a
cock, to run after the girls, and E. cockle, v.]

Defn: Th treat with too great tenderness; to fondle; to indulge; to
pamper.
Cocker thy child and he shall make thee afraid. Ecclesiasticus xxx.
9.
Poor folks cannot afford to cocker themselves up. J. Ingelow.

COCKER
Cock"er, n. Etym: [From Cock the bird.]

1. One given to cockfighting. [Obs.] Steele.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small dog of the spaniel kind, used for starting up
woodcocks, etc.

COCKER
Cock"er, n. Etym: [OE. coker qyiver, boot, AS. cocer quiver; akin to
G. köcher quiver, and perh. originally meaning receptacle, holder.
Cf. Quiver (for arrows).]

Defn: A rustic high shoe or half-boots. [Obs.] Drayton.

COCKEREL
Cock"er*el, n. Etym: [Prob. a double dim. of cock.]

Defn: A young cock.

COCKER SPANIEL
Cock"er span"iel.

Defn: One of a breed of small or medium-sized spaniels kept for
hunting or retrieving game or for household pets. They usually weigh
from eighteen to twenty-eight pounds. They have the head of fair
length, with square muzzle, the ears long and set low, the legs short
or of medium length, and the coat fine and silky, wavy but not curly.
Various colors are bred, as black, liver, red, black and white, black
and tan, etc.

COCKET
Cock"et, a. Etym: [F. coquet coquettish. See Coquette, n.]

Defn: Pert; saucy. [Obs.] Halliwell.

COCKET
Cock"et, n.

1. (Eng. Law)

Defn: A customhouse seal; a certified document given to a shopper as
a warrant that his goods have been duly enstered and have paid duty.

2. An office in a customhouse where goods intended for export are
entered. [Eng.]

3. A measure for bread. [Obs.] Blount.

COCKEYE
Cock"eye`, n. Etym: [From cock to turn up.]

Defn: A squinting eye. Forby.

COCKEYE
Cock"eye`, n. (Mach.)

Defn: The socket in the ball of a millstone, which sits on the
cockhead.

COCKFIGHT
Cock"fight`, n.

Defn: A match or contest of gamecocks.

COCKFIGHTING
Cock"fight`ing, n.

Defn: The act or practice of pitting gamecocks to fight.

COCKFIGHTING
Cock"fight`ing, a.

Defn: Addicted to cockfighting.

COCKHEAD
Cock"head`, n. (Mach.)

Defn: The rounded or pointed top of a grinding mill spindle, forming
a pivot on which the stone is balanced.

COCKHORSE
Cock"horse`, n.

1. A child's rocking-horse.
Ride a cockhorse to Banbury cross. Mother Goose.

2. A high or tall horse. [R.]

COCKHORSE
Cock"horse`, a.

1. Lifted up, as one is on a tall horse.

2. Lofty in feeling; exultant; pround; upstart.
Our painted fools and cockhorse peasantry. Marlowe.

COCKIELEEKIE
Cock`ie*leek"ie, n.

Defn: Same as Cockaleekie.

COCKING
Cock"ing, n.

Defn: Cockfighting. Ben Jonson.

COCKLE
Coc"kle, n. Etym: [OE. cockes cockles, AS. s sea cockles, prob, from
Celtic; cf. W. cocs cockles, Gael. cochull husk. Perh. influenced by
EF. coquille shell, a dim. from the root of E. conch. Cf. Coach.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bivalve mollusk, with radiating ribs, of the genus Cardium,
especially C. edule, used in Europe for food; -- sometimes applied to
similar shells of other genera.

2. A cockleshell.

3. The mineral black tourmaline or schorl; -- so called by the
Cornish miners. Raymond.

4. The fire chamber of a furnace. [Eng.] Knight.

5. A hop-drying kiln; an oast. Knight.

6. The dome of a heating furnace. Knight. Cockle hat, a hat
ornamented with a cockleshell, the badge of a pilgrim. Shak.
 -- Cockle stairs, winding or spiral stairs.

COCKLE
Coc"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cockled; p. pr. & vb. n. Cockling.]
Etym: [Of uncertian origin.]

Defn: To cause to contract into wrinkles or ridges, as some kinds of
cloth after a wetting. Cockling sea, waves dashing against each other
with a short and quick motion. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

COCKLE
Coc"kle, n. Etym: [AS. coccel, cocel; cf. Gael. cogall tares, husks,
cockle.] (Bot.)
(a) A plant or weed that grows among grain; the corn rose (Luchnis
Githage).
(b) The Lotium, or darnel.

COCKLEBUR
Coc"kle*bur`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A coarse, composite weed, having a rough or prickly fruit; one
of several species of the genus Xanthium; -- called also clotbur.

COCKLED
Coc"kled, a.

Defn: Inclosed in a shell.
The tender horns of cockled snails. Shak.

COCKLED
Coc"kled, a.

Defn: Wrinkled; puckered.
Showers soon drench the camlet's cockled grain. Gay.

COCKLER
Coc"kler, n.

Defn: One who takes and sells cockles.

COCKLESHELL
Coc"kle*shell`, n.

1. One of the shells or valves of a cockle.

2. A light boat.
To board the cockleshell in those plunding waters. W. Black.

COCKLOFT
Cock"loft` n. Etym: [Prop., a loft where cocks roost.]

Defn: An upper loft; a garret; the highest room in a building.
Dryden. Swift.

COCKMASTER
Cock"mas`ter, n.

Defn: One who breeds gamecocks. L'Estrange.

COCKMATCH
Cock"match`, n.

Defn: A cockfight.

COCKNEY
Cock"ney, n.; pl. Cockneys. Etym: [OE. cocknay, cokenay, a spoiled
child, effeminate person, an egg; prob. orig. a cock's egg, a small
imperfect egg; OE. cok cock + nay, neye, for ey egg (cf. Newt), AS.
æg. See 1st Cock, Egg, n.]

1. An effeminate person; a spoilt child. "A young heir or cockney,
that is his mother's darling." Nash (1592).
This great lubber, the world, will prove a cockney. Shak.

2. A native or resident of the city of London; -- used contemptuosly.
A cockney in a rural village was stared at as much as if he had
entered a kraal of Hottentots. Macaulay.

COCKNEY
Cock"ney, a.

Defn: Of or relating to, or like, cockneys.

COCKNEYDOM
Cock"ney*dom, n.

Defn: The region or home of cockneys; cockneys, collectively.
Thackeray.

COCKNEYFY
Cock"ney*fy, v. t. Etym: [Cockney + -fy.]

Defn: To form with the manners or character of a cockney. [Colloq.]

COCKNEYISH
Cock"ney*ish, a.

Defn: Characteristic of, or resembling, cockneys.

COCKNEYISM
Cock"ney*ism, n.

Defn: The charasteristics, manners, or dialect, of a cockney.

COCK-PADDLE
Cock"-pad`dle, n. [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lumpfish. [Scot.]

COCK-PADLE
Cock"-pad`le, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lumpfish. [Scot.]

COCKPIT
Cock"pit`, n.

1. A pit, or inclosed area, for cockfights.
Henry the Eight had built . . . a cockpit. Macaulay.

2. The Privy Council room at Westminster; -- so called because built
on the site of the cockpit of Whitehall palace. Brande & C.

3. (Naut.)
(a) That part of a war vessel appropriated to the wounded during an
engagement.
(b) In yachts and other small vessels, a space lower than the rest of
the deck, which affords easy access to the cabin.

COCKROACH
Cock"roach, n. Etym: [Sp. cucaracha.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An orthopterus insect of the genus Blatta, and allied genera.

Note: The species are numerous, especially in hot countries. Those
most commonly infesting houses in Europe and North America are Blatta
orientalis, a large species often called black beetle, and the Croton
bug (Ectobia Germanica).

COCKSCOMB
Cocks"comb, n. Etym: [1st cock, n. + comb crest.]

1. See Coxcomb.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Celosia cristata), of many varieties, cultivated for
its broad, fantastic spikes of brilliant flowers; -- sometimes called
garden cockscomb. Also the Pedicularis, or lousewort, the Rhinanthus
Crista-galli, and the Onobrychis Crista-galli.

COCKSHEAD
Cocks"head`, n.

Defn: (Bot.) A leguminous herb (Onobrychis Caput-galli), having small
spiny-crested pods.

COCKSHUT
Cock"shut`, n.

Defn: A kind of net to catch woodcock. [Obs.] Nares. Cockshut time or
light, evening twilight; nightfall; -- so called in allusion to the
tome at which the cockshut used to be spread. [Obs.] Shak. B. Jonson.

COCKSHY
Cock"shy`, n.

1. A game in which trinkets are set upon sticks, to be thrown at by
the players; -- so called from an ancient popular sport which
consisted in "shying" or throwing cudgels at live cocks.

2. An object at which stones are flung.
"Making a cockshy of him," replied the hideous small boy. Dickens.

COCKSPUR
Cock"spur, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A variety of Cratægus, or hawthorn (C. Crus-galli), having
long, straight thorns; -- called also Cockspur thorn.

COCKSURE
Cock"sure`, a.

1. Perfectly safe. [Obs.]
We steal as in a castle, cocksure: . . . we walk invisible. Shak.

2. Quite certain. [Colloq.]
I throught myself cocksure of the horse which he readily promised me.
Pope.

COCKSWAIN
Cock"swain (, colloq. ), n. Etym: [Cock a boat + swain; hence, the
master of a boat.]

Defn: The steersman of a boat; a petty officer who has charge of a
boat and its crew.

COCKTAIL
Cock"tail`, n.

1. A beverage made of brandy, whisky, or gin, iced, flavored, and
sweetened. [U. S.]

2. (Stock Breeding)

Defn: A horse, not of pure breed, but having only one eighth or one
sixteenth impure blood in his veins. Darwin.

3. A mean, half-hearted fellow; a coward. [Slang, Eng.]
It was in the second affair that poor little Barney showed he was a
cocktail. Thackeray.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of rove beetle; -- so called from its habit of
elevating the tail.

COCKUP
Cock"up, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, highly esteemed, edible fish of India (Lates
calcarifer); -- also called begti.

COCKWEED
Cock"weed, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Peppergrass. Johnson.

COCKY
Cock"y, a. Etym: [See Cocket.]

Defn: Pert. [Slang]

COCKYOLLY BIRD; COCKYOLY BIRD
Cock`y*ol"ly bird or Cock`y*ol"y bird. [Cf. Cock, fowl; Yellow.]

Defn: A pet name for any small bird.

COCO; COCO PALM
Co"co, n. or Co"co palm.

Defn: See Cocoa.

COCOA; COCOA PALM
Co"coa, n., Co"coa palm` Etym: [Sp. & Pg. coco cocoanut, in Sp. also,
cocoa palm. The Portuguese name is said to have been given from the
monkeylike face at the base of the nut, fr. Pg. coco a bugbear, an
ugly mask to frighten children. Cf., however, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A palm tree producing the cocoanut (Cocos nucifera). It grows
in nearly all tropical countries, attaining a height of sixty or
eighty feet. The trunk is without branches, and has a tuft of leaves
at the top, each being fifteen or twenty feet in length, and at the
base of these the nuts hang in clusters; the cocoanut tree.

COCOA
Co"coa, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. cacao.]

Defn: A preparation made from the seeds of the chocolate tree, and
used in making, a beverage; also the beverage made from cocoa or
cocoa shells. Cocoa shells, the husks which separate from the cacao
seeds in preparing them for use.

COCOANUT
Co"coa*nut`, n.

Defn: The large, hard-shelled nut of the cocoa palm. It yields an
agreeable milky liquid and a white meat or albumen much used as food
and in making oil.

COCOBOLO; COCOBOLAS
Co`co*bo"lo, Co`co*bo"las, n. Etym: [Sp. cocobolo.] (Bot.)

Defn: A very beautiful and hard wood, obtained in the West India
Islands. It is used in cabinetmaking, for the handles of tools, and
for various fancy articles.

COCOON
Co*coon", n. Etym: [F. cocon, dim. of coque shell of egge and
insects, fr. L. concha mussel shell. See Conch.]

1. An oblong case in which the silkworn lies in its chrysalis state.
It is formed of threads of silk spun by the worm just before leaving
the larval state. From these the silk of commerce is prepared.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) The case constructed by any insect to contain its larva or pupa.
(b) The case of silk made by spiders to protect their eggs.
(c) The egg cases of mucus, etc., made by leeches and other worms.

COCOONERY
Co*coon"er*y, n.

Defn: A building or apartment for silkworms, when feeding and forming
cocoons.

COCTIBLE
Coc"ti*ble, a. Etym: [See Coctile.]

Defn: Capable of being cooked. Blount.

COCTILE
Coc"tile, a. Etym: [L. coctilis, fr. coguere. See Cook.]

Defn: Made by baking, or exposing to heat, as a brick.

COCTION
Coc"tion, n. Etym: [L. coctio.]

1. Act of boiling.

2. (Med.)
(a) Digestion. [Obs.]
(b) The change which the humorists believed morbific matter undergoes
before elimination. [Obs.] Dunglison.

COCUS WOOD
Co"cus wood`.

Defn: A West Indian wood, used for making flutes and other musical
instruments.

COD
Cod, n. Etym: [AS. codd small bag; akin to Icel. koddi pillow, Sw.
kudde cushion; cf. W. cod, ciod, bag, shell.]

1. A husk; a pod; as, a peascod. [Eng.] Mortimer.

2. A small bag or pouch. [Obs.] Halliwell.

3. The scortum. Dunglison.

4. A pillow or cushion. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

COD
Cod, n. Etym: [Cf. G. gadde, and (in Heligoland) gadden, L. gadus
merlangus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An important edible fish (Gadus morrhua), Taken in immense
numbers on the northern coasts of Europe and America. It is
especially abundant and large on the Grand Bank of Newfoundland. It
is salted and dried in large quantities.

Note: There are several varieties; as shore cod, from shallow water;
bank cod, from the distant banks; and rock cod, which is found among
ledges, and is often dark brown or mottled with red. The tomcod is a
distinct species of small size. The bastard, blue, buffalo, or cultus
cod of the Pacific coast belongs to a distinct family. See Buffalo
cod, under Buffalo. Cod fishery, the business of fishing for cod.
 -- Cod line, an eighteen-thread line used in catching codfish.
McElrath.

CODA
Co"da, n. Etym: [It., tail, fr. L. cauda.] (Mus.)

Defn: A few measures added beyond the natural termination of a
composition.

CODDER
Cod"der, n.

Defn: A gatherer of cods or peas. [Obs. or Prov.] Johnson.

CODDING
Cod"ding, a.

Defn: Lustful. [Obs.] Shak.

CODDLE
Cod"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coddled; p. pr. & vb. n. Coddling.]
Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. caddle to coax, spoil, fondle, and Cade, a. & v.
t.] [Written also codle.]

1. To parboil, or soften by boiling.
It [the guava fruit] may be coddled. Dampier.

2. To treat with excessive tenderness; to pamper.
How many of our English princes have been coddled at home by their
fond papas and mammas! Thackeray.
He [Lord Byron] never coddled his reputation. Southey.

CODDYMODDY
Cod"dy*mod"dy, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gull in the plumage of its first year.

CODE
Code, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. codex, caudex, the stock or

1. A body of law, sanctioned by legislation, in which the rules of
law to be specifically applied by the courts are set forth in
systematic form; a compilation of laws by public authority; a digest.

Note: The collection of laws made by the order of Justinian is
sometimes called, by way of eminence. "The Code" Wharton.

2. Any system of rules or regulations relating to one subject; as,
the medical code, a system of rules for the regulation of the
professional conduct of physicians; the naval code, a system of rules
for making communications at sea means of signals. Code civil or Code
Napoleon, a code enacted in France in 1803 and 1804, embodying the
law of rights of persons and of property generally. Abbot.

CODEFENDANT
Co`de*fend"ant, n.

Defn: A joint defendant. Blackstone.

CODEINE
Co*de"ine, n. Etym: [Gr. cod.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the opium alkaloids; a white crystalline substance,
C18H21NO3, similar to and regarded as a derivative of morphine, but
much feebler in its action; -- called also codeia.

CODETTA
Co*det"ta, n. Etym: [It., dim. of coda tail.] (Mus.)

Defn: A short passage connecting two sections, but not forming part
of either; a short coda.

CODEX
Co"dex, n.; pl. Codices. Etym: [L. See Code.]

1. A book; a manuscript.

2. A collection or digest of laws; a code. Burrill.

3. An ancient manuscript of the Sacred Scriptures, or any part of
them, particularly the New Testament.

4. A collection of canons. Shipley.

CODFISH
Cod"fish, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of fish. Same as Cod.

CODGER
Codg"er, n. Etym: [Cf. Cadger.]

1. A miser or mean person.

2. A singular or odd person; -- a familiar, humorous, or depreciatory
appellation. [Colloq.]
A few of us old codgers met at the fireside. Emerson.

CODICAL
Cod"i*cal, a.

Defn: Ralating to a codex, or a code.

CODICIL
Cod"i*cil, n. Etym: [L. codicillus, dim. of codex: cf. F. codicille.
See Code.] (Law)

Defn: A clause added to a will.

CODICILLARY
Cod`i*cil"la*ry, a. Etym: [L. codicillaris, codicillarius.]

Defn: Of the nature of a codicil.

CODIFICATION
Co`di*fi*ca"tion ( or ), n. Etym: [Cf. F. codification.]

Defn: The act or process of codifying or reducing laws to a code.

CODIFIER
Co"di*fi`er ( or ), n.

Defn: One who codifies.

CODIFY
Co"di*fy ( or ; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Codified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Codifying.] Etym: [Code + -fy: cf. F. codifier.]

Defn: To reduce to a code, as laws.

CODILLA
Co*dil"la, n. Etym: [Cf. L. codicula a little tail, dim. of cauda
tail.] (Com.)

Defn: The coarse tow of flax and hemp. McElrath.

CODILLE
Co*dille", n. Etym: [F. codile.]

Defn: A term at omber, signifying that the game is won. Pope.

CODIST
Co"dist, n.

Defn: A codifier; a maker of codes. [R.]

CODLE
Co"dle, v. t.

Defn: See Coddle.

CODLIN; CODLING
Cod"lin, Cod"ling, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. codæppel a quince.]
(a) An apple fit to stew or coddle.
(b) An immature apple.
A codling when 't is almost an apple. Shak.
Codling moth (Zoöl.), a small moth (Carpocapsa Pomonella), which in
the larval state (known as the apple worm) lives in apples, often
doing great damage to the crop.

CODLING
Cod"ling, n. Etym: [Dim. of cod the fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young cod; also, a hake.

COD LIVER
Cod" liv`er, n.

Defn: The liver of the common cod and allied species. Cod-liver oil,
an oil obtained fron the liver of the codfish, and used extensively
in medicine as a means of supplying the body with fat in cases of
malnutrition.

CODPIECE
Cod"piece`, n. Etym: [Cod, n., piece.]

Defn: A part of male dress in front of the breeches, formerly made
very conspicuous. Shak. Fosbroke.

COECILIAN
Coe*cil"i*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cæcilian.

COEDUCATION
Co*ed`u*ca"tion, n.

Defn: An educating together, as of persons of different sexes or
races. Co*ed`u*ca"tion*al (, a.

COEFFICACY
Co*ef"fi*ca*cy, n.

Defn: Joint efficacy.

COEFFICIENCY
Co`ef*fi"cien*cy, n.

Defn: Joint efficiency; coöperation. Glanvill.

COEFFICIENT
Co`ef*fi"cient, a.

Defn: Coöperating; acting together to produce an effect.
Co`ef*fi"cient*ly, adv.

COEFFICIENT
Co`ef*fi"cient, n.

1. That which unites in action with something else to produce the
same effect.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. coefficient.] (Math.)

Defn: A number or letter put before a letter or quantity, known or
unknown, to show how many times the latter is to be taken; as, 6x;
bx; here 6 and b are coefficients of x.

3. (Physics)

Defn: A number, commonly used in computation as a factor, expressing
the amount of some change or effect under certain fixed conditions as
to temperature, length, volume, etc.; as, the coefficient of
expansion; the coefficient of friction. Arbitrary coefficient
(Math.), a literal coefficient placed arbitrarily in an algebraic,
expression, the value of the coefficient being afterwards determined
by the conditions of the problem.

COEHORN
Coe"horn, n. Etym: [From its inventor, Baron Coehorn.] (Mil.)

Defn: A small bronze mortar mounted on a wooden block with handles,
and light enough to be carried short distances by two men.

COELACANTH
Coel"a*canth ( or , a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having hollow spines, as some ganoid fishes.

COELECTRON
Co`e*lec"tron, n.

Defn: See Electron.

COELENTERA; COELENTERATA
Coe*len"te*ra or Coe*len`te*ra"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A comprehensive group of Invertebrata, mostly marine,
comprising the Anthozoa, Hydrozoa, and Ctenophora. The name implies
that the stomach and body cavities are one. The group is sometimes
enlarged so as to include the sponges.

COELENTERATE
Coe*len"ter*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Coelentra.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Coelentera.

COELIA
Coe"li*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A cavity.

Note: The word is applied to the ventricles of the brain, the
different venticles being indicated by prefixes like those
characterizing the parts of the brain in which the cavities are
found; as, epicoelia, mesocoelia, metacoelia, procoelia, etc. B. G.
Wilder.

COELIAC; CELIAC
Coe"li*ac, Ce"li*ac, a. Etym: [L. coeliacus, Gr.

Defn: Relating to the abdomen, or to the cavity of the abdomen.
Coeliac artery (Anat.), the artery which issues from the aorta just
below the diaphragm; -- called also coeliac axis.
 -- Coeliac flux, Coeliac passion (Med.), a chronic flux or diarrhea
of undigested food.

COELODONT
Coe"lo*dont, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having hollow teeth; -- said of a group lizards.
 -- n.

Defn: One of a group of lizards having hollow teeth.

COELOSPERMOUS
Coel`o*sper"mous ( or , a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Hollow-seeded; having the ventral face of the seedlike carpels
incurved at the ends, as in coriander seed.

COELUM
Coe"lum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: See Body cavity, under Body.

COEMPTION
Co*emp"tion, n. Etym: [L. coëmptio, fr. coëmere to buy up. See
Emption.]

Defn: The act of buying the whole quantity of any commodity. [R.]
Bacon.

COENDOO
Co*en"doo, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Brazilian porcupine (Cercolades, or Sphingurus,
prehensiles), remarkable for its prehensile tail.

COENENCHYM; COENENCHYMA
Coe*nen"chym, Coe*nen"chy*ma n. Etym: [NL. coenenchyma, fr. Gr.
parenchyma.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common tissue which unites the polyps or zooids of a
compound anthozoan or coral. It may be soft or more or less ossified.
See Coral.

COENESTHESIS
Coen`es*the"sis ( or ), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Common sensation or general sensibility, as distinguished from
the special sensations which are located in, or ascribed to, separate
organs, as the eye and ear. It is supposed to depend on the
ganglionic system.

COENOBITE
Coen"o*bite ( or ), n.

Defn: See Cenobite.

COENOECIUM
Coe*noe"ci*um ( or ), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common tissue which unites the various zooids of a
bryozoan.

COENOGAMY
Coe*nog"a*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The state of a community which permits promiscuous sexual
intercourse among its members; -- as in certain primitive tribes or
communistic societies. [Written also cenogamy.]

COENOSARC
Coen"o*sarc ( or ), n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common soft tissue which unites the polyps of a compound
hydroid. See Hydroidea.

COENURUS
Coe*nu"rus, n. Etym: [NL. fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larval stage of a tapeworm (Tænia coenurus) which forms
bladderlike sacs in the brain of sheep, causing the fatal disease
known as water brain, vertigo, staggers or gid.

Note: This bladder worm has on its surface numerous small heads, each
of which, when swallowed by a dog, becomes a mature tapeworm in the
dog's intestine.

COEQUAL
Co*e"qual, a. Etym: [L. coaequalis; co- + aequalis equal.]

Defn: Being on an equality in rank or power.
 -- n.

Defn: One who is on an equality with another.
In once he come to be a cardinal, He'll make his cap coequal with the
crown. Shak.

COEQUALITY
Co`e*qual"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being on an equality, as in rank or power.

COEQUALLY
Co*e"qual*ly, adv.

Defn: With coequality.

COERCE
Co*erce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coerced; p. pr. & vb. n. Coercing.]
Etym: [L. coërcere; co- + arcere to shut up, to press together. See
Ark.]

1. To restrain by force, especially by law or authority; to repress;
to curb. Burke.
Punishments are manifold, that they may coerce this profligate sort.
Ayliffe.

2. To compel or constrain to any action; as, to coerce a man to vote
for a certain candidate.

3. To compel or enforce; as, to coerce obedience.

Syn.
 -- To Coerce, Compel. To compel denotes to urge on by force which
cannot be resisted. The term aplies equally to physical and moral
force; as, compelled by hunger; compelled adverse circumstances;
compelled by parental affection. Coerce had at first only the
negative sense of checking or restraining by force; as, to coerce a
bad man by punishments or a prisoner with fetters. It has now gained
a positive sense., viz., that of driving a person into the
performance of some act which is required of him by another; as, to
coerce a man to sign a contract; to coerce obedience. In this sense
(which is now the prevailing one), coerce differs but little from
compel, and yet there is a distinction between them. Coercion is
usually acomplished by indirect means, as threats and intimidation,
physical force being more rarely employed in coercing.

COERCIBLE
Co"er"ci*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being coerced.
 -- Co*er"ci*ble*ness, n.

COERCION
Co*er"cion, n. Etym: [L. coercio, fr. coercere. See Coerce.]

1. The act or process of coercing.

2. (Law)

Defn: The application to another of either physical or moral force.
When the force is physical, and cannot be resisted, then the act
produced by it is a nullity, so far as concerns the party coerced.
When the force is moral, then the act, though voidable, is imputable
to the party doing it, unless he be so paralyzed by terror as to act
convulsively. At the same time coercion is not negatived by the fact
of submission under force. "Coactus volui" (I consented under
compulsion) is the condition of mind which, when there is volition
forced by coercion, annuls the result of such coercion. Wharton.

COERCITIVE
Co*er"ci*tive, a.

Defn: Coercive. "Coercitive power in laws." Jer. Taylor.

COERCIVE
Co*er"cive, a.

Defn: Serving or intended to coerce; having power to constrain.
 -- Co*er"cive*ly, adv.
 -- Co*er"cive*ness, n.
Coercive power can only influence us to outward practice. Bp.
Warburton.
Coercive or Coercitive force (Magnetism), the power or force which in
iron or steel produces a slowness or difficulty in imparting
magnetism to it, and also interposes an obstacle to the return of a
bar to its natural state when active magnetism has ceased. It plainly
depends on the molecular constitution of the metal. Nichol.
The power of resisting magnetization or demagnization is sometimes
called coercive force. S. Thompson.

COERULIGNONE
Coe`ru*lig"none, n. Etym: [L. coeruleus cerulean + lignum wood + E.
quinone.] (Chem.)

Defn: A bluish violet, crystalline substance obtained in the
purification of crude wood vinegar. It is regarded as a complex
quinone derivative of diphenyl; -- called also cedriret.

COESSENTIAL
Co`es*sen"tial, a.

Defn: Partaking of the same essence.
 -- Co`es*sen"tial*ly, adv.
We bless and magnify that coessential Spirit, eternally proceeding
from both [The Father and the Son]. Hooker.

COESSENTIALITY
Co`es*sen`ti*al"i*ty ( or ; 106), n.

Defn: Participation of the same essence. Johnson.

COESTABLISHMENT
Co`es*tab"lish*ment, n.

Defn: Joint establishment. Bp. Watson.

COESTATE
Co`es*tate", n.

Defn: Joint estate. Smolett.

COETANEAN
Co`e*ta"ne*an, n.

Defn: A personcoetaneous with another; a contemporary. [R.]
A . . . coetanean of the late earl of SouthamptoAubrey.

COETANEOUS
Co`e*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. coaetaneus; co- + aetas age.]

Defn: Of the same age; beginning to exist at the same time;
contemporaneous.
 -- Co`e*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.
And all [members of the body] are coetaneous. Bentley.

COETERNAL
Co`e*ter"nal, a.

Defn: Equally eternal.
 -- Co`e*ter"nal*ly, adv.
Hail, holy Light, offspring of Heaven first born! Or of the Eternal
coeternal beam. Milton.

COETERNITY
Co`e*ter"ni*ty, n.

Defn: Existence from eternity equally with another eternal being;
equal eternity.

COEVAL
Co*e"val, a. Etym: [L. coaevus; co- + aevum lifetime, age. See Age,
n.]

Defn: Of the same age; existing during the same period of time,
especially time long and remote; -- usually followed by with.
Silence! coeval with eternity! Pope.
Oaks coeval spread a mournful shade. Cowper.

COEVAL
Co*e"val, n.

Defn: One of the same age; a contemporary.
As if it were not enough to have outdone all your coevals in wit.
Pope.

COEVOUS
Co*e"vous, a.

Defn: Coeaval [Obs.] South.

COEXECUTOR
Co`ex*ec"u*tor, n.

Defn: A joint executor.

COEXECUTRIX
Co`ex*ec"u*trix, n.

Defn: A joint executrix.

COEXIST
Co`ex*ist, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Coexisted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Coexisting.]

Defn: To exist at the same time; -- sometimes followed by with.
Of substances no one has any clear idea, farther than of certain
simple ideas coexisting together. Locke.
So much purity and integrity . . . coexisting with so much decay and
so many infirmities. Warburton.

COEXISTENCE
Co`ex*ist"ence, n.

Defn: Existence at the same time with another; -- contemporary
existence.
Without the help, or so much as the coexistence, of any condition.
Jer. Taylor.

COEXISTENT
Co`ex*ist"ent, a.

Defn: Existing at the same time with another.
 -- n.

Defn: That which coexists with another.
The law of coexistent vibrations. Whewell.

COEXISTING
Co`ex*ist"ing, a.

Defn: Coexistent. Locke.

COEXTEND
Co`ex*tend, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coextended; p. pr. & vb. n.
Coextending.]

Defn: To extend through the same space or time with another; to
extend to the same degree.
According to which the least body may be coextended with the
greatest. Boyle.
Has your English language one single word that is coextended through
all these significations Bentley.

COEXTENSION
Co`ex*ten"sion, n.

Defn: The act of extending equally, or the state of being equally
extended.

COEXTENSIVE
Co`ex*ten"sive, a.

Defn: Equally extensive; having as, consciousness and knowledge are
coextensive. Sir W. Hamilton.
 -- Co`ex*ten"sive*ly, adv.
 -- Co`ex*ten"sive*ness, n.

COFFEE
Cof"fee, n. Etym: [Turk. qahveh, Ar. qahuah wine, coffee, a decoction
of berries. Cf. Café.]

1. The "beans" or "berries" (pyrenes) obtained from the drupes of a
small evergreen tree of the genus Coffea, growing in Abyssinia,
Arabia, Persia, and other warm regions of Asia and Africa, and also
in tropical America.

2. The coffee tree.

Note: There are several species of the coffee tree, as, Coffea
Arabica, C. occidentalis, and C. Liberica. The white, fragrant
flowers grow in clusters at the root of the leaves, and the fruit is
a red or purple cherrylike drupe, with sweet pulp, usually containing
two pyrenes, commercially called "beans" or "berries".

3. The beverage made from the roasted and ground berry.
They have in Turkey a drink called coffee . . . This drink comforteth
the brain and heart, and helpeth digestion. Bacon.

Note: The use of coffee is said to have been introduced into England
about 1650, when coffeehouses were opened in Oxford and London.
Coffee bug (Zoöl.), a species of scale insect (Lecanium coffæa),
often very injurious to the coffee tree.
 -- Coffee rat (Zoöl.) See Musang.

COFFEEHOUSE
Cof"fee*house`, n.

Defn: A house of entertainment, where guests are supplied with coffee
and other refreshments, and where men meet for conversation.
The coffeehouse must not be dismissed with a cursory mention. It
might indeed, at that time, have been not improperly called a most
important political institution . . . The coffeehouses were the chief
organs through which the public opinion of the metropolis vented
itself . . . Every man of the upper or middle class went daily to his
coffeehouse to learn the news and discuss it. Every coffeehouse had
one or more orators, to whose eloquence the crowd listened with
admiration, and who soon became what the journalists of our own time
have been called -- a fourth estate of the realm. Macaulay.

COFFEEMAN
Cof"fee*man, n.

Defn: One who keeps a coffeehouse. Addison.

COFFEEPOT
Cof"fee*pot, n.

Defn: A covered pot im which coffee is prepared,

COFFEEROOM
Cof"fee*room`, n.

Defn: A public room where coffee and other refreshments may be
obtained.

COFFER
Cof"fer, n. Etym: [OF. cofre, F. coffre, L. cophinus basket, fr. Gr.
Coffin, n.]

1. A casket, chest, or trunk; especially, one used for keeping money
or other valuables. Chaucer.
In ivory coffers I have stuffed my crowns. Shak.

2. Fig.: Treasure or funds; -- usually in the plural.
He would discharge it without any burden to the queen's coffers, for
honor sake. Bacon.
Hold, here is half my coffer. Shak.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A panel deeply recessed in the ceiling of a vault, dome, or
portico; a caisson.

4. (Fort.)

Defn: A trench dug in the botton of a dry moat, and extending across
it, to enable the besieged to defend it by a raking fire.

5. The chamber of a canal lock; also, a caisson or a cofferdam.
Coffer dam. (Engin.) See Cofferdam, in the Vocabulary.
 -- Coffer fish. (Zoöl.) See Cowfish.

COFFER
Cof"fer, v. t.

1. To put into a coffer. Bacon.

2. (Mining.)

Defn: To secure from leaking, as a chaft, by ramming clay behind the
masonry or timbering. Raymond.

3. To form with or in a coffer or coffers; to turnish with a coffer
or coffers.

COFFERDAM
Cof"fer*dam, n.

Defn: A water-tight inclosure, as of piles packed with clay, from
which the water is pumped to expose the bottom (of a river, etc.) and
permit the laying of foundations, building of piers, etc.

COFFERER
Cof"fer*er, n.

Defn: One who keeps treasures in a coffer. [R.]

COFFERWORK
Cof"fer*work`, n. (Masonry)

Defn: Rubblework faced with stone. Knight.

COFFIN
Cof"fin, n. Etym: [OE., a basket, receptacle, OF. cofin, fr. L.
cophinus. See Coffer, n.]

1. The case in which a dead human body is inclosed for burial.
They embalmed him [Joseph], and he was put in a coffin. Gen. 1. 26.

2. A basket. [Obs.] Wyclif (matt. xiv. 20).

3. A casing or crust, or a mold, of pastry, as for a pie.
Of the paste a coffin I will rear. Shak.

4. A conical paper bag, used by grocers. [Obs.] Nares.

5. (Far.)

Defn: The hollow crust or hoof of a horse's foot, below the coronet,
in which is the coffin bone. Coffin bone, the foot bone of the horse
and allied animals, inclosed within the hoof, and corresponding to
the third phalanx of the middle finger, or toe, of most mammals.
 -- Coffin joint, the joint next above the coffin bone.

COFFIN
Cof"fin, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coffined; p. pr. & vb. n. Coffining.]

Defn: To inclose in, or as in, a coffin.
Would'st thou have laughed, had I come coffined home Shak.
Devotion is not coffined in a cell. John Hall (1646).

COFFINLESS
Cof"fin*less, a.

Defn: Having no coffin.

COFFLE
Cof"fle, n. Etym: [Ar. kafala caravan.]

Defn: A gang of negro slaves being driven to market.

COG
Cog, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cogged; p. pr. & vb. n. Cogging.] Etym: [Cf.
W. coegio to make void, to beceive, from coeg empty, vain, foolish.
Cf. Coax, v. t.]

1. To seduce, or draw away, by adulation, artifice, or falsehood; to
wheedle; to cozen; to cheat. [R.]
I'll . . . cog their hearts from them. Shak.

2. To obtrude or thrust in, by falsehood or deception; as, to cog in
a word; to palm off. [R.]
Fustian tragedies . . . have, by concerted applauses, been cogged
upon the town for masterpieces. J. Dennis
To cog a die, to load so as to direct its fall; to cheat in playing
dice. Swift.

COG
Cog, v. i.

Defn: To deceive; to cheat; to play false; to lie; to wheedle; to
cajole.
For guineas in other men's breeches, Your gamesters will palm and
will cog. Swift.

COG
Cog, n.

Defn: A trick or deception; a falsehood. Wm. Watson.

COG
Cog, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. kugge a cog, or W. cocos the cogs of a wheel.]

1. (Mech.)

Defn: A tooth, cam, or catch for imparting or receiving motion, as on
a gear wheel, or a lifter or wiper on a shaft; originally, a separate
piece of wood set in a mortise in the face of a wheel.

2. (Carp.)
(a) A kind of tenon on the end of a joist, received into a notch in a
bearing timber, and resting flush with its upper surface.
(b) A tenon in a scarf joint; a coak. Knight.

3. (Mining.)

Defn: One of the rough pillars of stone or coal left to support the
roof of a mine.

COG
Cog, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with a cog or cogs. Cogged breath sound
(Auscultation), a form of interrupted respiration, in which the
interruptions are very even, three or four to each inspiration.
Quain.

COG
Cog, n. Etym: [OE. cogge; cf. D. kog, Icel. kuggr Cf. Cock a boat.]

Defn: A small fishing boat. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

COGENCY
Co"gen*cy, n. Etym: [See Cogent.]

Defn: The quality of being cogent; power of compelling conviction;
conclusiveness; force.
An antecedent argument of extreme cogency. J. H. Newman.

COGENIAL
Co*ge"ni*al, a.

Defn: Congenial. [Obs.]

COGENT
Co"gent, a. Etym: [L. cogens, p. pr. of cogere to drive together, to
force; co- + agere to drive. See Agent, a., and cf. Coact to force,
Coagulate, p. a.]

1. Compelling, in a physical sense; powerful. [Obs.]
The cogent force of nature. Prior.

2. Having the power to compel conviction or move the will;
constraining; conclusive; forcible; powerful; not easily reasisted.
No better nor more cogent reason. Dr. H. More.
Proofs of the most cogent description. Tyndall.
The tongue whose strains were cogent as commands, Revered at home,
and felt in foreign lands. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Forcible; powerful; potent; urgent; strong; persuasive;
convincing; conclusive; influential.

COGENTLY
Co"gent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cogent manner; forcibly; convincigly; conclusively. Locke.

COGGER
Cog"ger, n. Etym: [From Cog to wheedle.]

Defn: A flatterer or deceiver; a sharper.

COGGERY
Cog"ger*y, n.

Defn: Trick; deception. Bp. Watson.

COGGLE
Cog"gle, n. Etym: [See Cog small boat.]

Defn: A small fishing boat. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

COGGLE
Cog"gle, n. Etym: [Cf. Cobble a cobblestone.]

Defn: A cobblestone. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

COGITABILITY
Cog`i*ta*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being cogitable; conceivableness.

COGITABLE
Cog"i*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. cogitabilis, fr. cogitare to think.]

Defn: Capable of being brought before the mind as a throught or idea;
conceivable; thinkable.
Creation is cogitable by us only as a putting forth of divine power.
Sir W. Hamilton.

COGITABUND
Cog"i*ta*bund`, a. Etym: [L. cogitabundus.]

Defn: Full of thought; thoughtful. [R.] Leigh Hunt.

COGITATE
Cog"i*tate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cogitated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cogitating.] Etym: [L. cogitatus, p. p. of cogitare to reflect upon,
prob. fr. co- + the root of aio I say; hence, prop., to discuss with
one's self. Cf. Adage.]

Defn: To engage in continuous thought; to think.
He that calleth a thing into his mind, whether by impression or
recordation, cogitateth and considereth, and he that employeth the
faculty of his fancy also cogitateth. Bacon.

COGITATE
Cog"i*tate, v. t.

Defn: To think over; to plan.
He . . . is our witness, how we both day and night, revolving in our
minds, did cogitate nothing more than how to satisfy the parts of a
good pastor. Foxe.

COGITATION
Cog`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. cogitatio: cf. F. cogitation.]

Defn: The act of thinking; thought; meditation; contemplation. "Fixed
in cogitation deep." Milton.

COGITATIVE
Cog"i*ta*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. cogitativus.]

1. Possessing, or pertaining to, the power of thinking or meditating.
"Cogitative faculties." Wollaston.

2. Given to thought or contemplation. Sir H. Wotton.

COGMAN
Cog"man, n.

Defn: A dealer in cogware or coarse cloth. [Obs.] Wright.

COGNAC
Co"gnac`, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A kind of French brandy, so called from the town of Cognac.

COGNATE
Cog"nate, a. Etym: [L. cognatus; co- + gnatus, natus, p. p. of nasci,
anciently gnasci, to be born. See Nation, and cf. Connate.]

1. Allied by blood; kindred by birth; specifically (Law), related on
the mother's side.

2. Of the same or a similar nature; of the same family; proceeding
from the same stock or root; allied; kindred; as, a cognate language.

COGNATE
Cog"nate, n.

1. (Law)

Defn: One who is related to another on the female side. Wharton.

2. One of a number of things allied in origin or nature; as, certain
letters are cognates.

COGNATENESS
Cog"nate*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being cognate.

COGNATI
Cog*na"ti, n. pl. Etym: [L.] (Law)

Defn: Relatives by the mother's side. Wharton.

COGNATION
Cog*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. cognatio.]

1. Relationship by blood; descent from the same original; kindred.
As by our cognation to the body of the first Adam. Jer. Taylor.

2. Participation of the same nature. Sir T. Browne.
A like temper and cognation. Sir K. Digby.

3. (Law)

Defn: That tie of consanguinity which exists between persons
descended from the same mother; -- used in distinction from agnation.

COGNATUS
Cog*na"tus, n. Etym: [L., a kinsman.] (Law)

Defn: A person cinnected through cognation.

COGNISOR; COGNISEE
Cog`ni*sor" ( or ), Cog`ni*see, n.

Defn: See Cognizor, Cognizee.

COGNITION
Cog*ni"tion, n. Etym: [L. cognitio, fr. cognoscere, cognitum, to
become acquainted with, to know; co- + noscere, gnoscere, to get a
knowledge of. See Know, v. t.]

1. The act of knowing; knowledge; perception.
I will not be myself nor have cognation Of what I feel: I am all
patience. Shak.

2. That which is known.

COGNITIVE
Cog"ni*tive, a.

Defn: Knowing, or apprehending by the understanding; as, cognitive
power. South.

COGNIZABLE
Cog"ni*za*ble ( or , a. Etym: [F. connaissable, fr. connaître to
know, L. cognoscere. See Cognition.]

1. Capable of being known or apprehended; as, cognizable causes.

2. Fitted to be a subject of judicial investigation; capable of being
judicially heard and determined.
Cognizable both in the ecclesiastical and secular courts. Ayliffe.

COGNIZABLY
Cog"ni*za*bly, adv.

Defn: In a cognizable manner.

COGNIZANCE
Cog"ni*zance ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [OF. conissance, conoissance, F.
conaissance, LL. cognoscentia, fr. L. cognoscere to know. See
Cognition, and cf. Cognoscence, Connoisseur.]

1. Apprehension by the understanding; perception; observation.
Within the cognizance and lying under the control of their divine
Governor. Bp. Hurd

2. Recollection; recognition.
Who, soon as on that knight his eye did glance, Eftsoones of him had
perfect cognizance. Spenser.

3. (Law)
(a) Jurisdiction, or the power given by law to hear and decide
controversies.
(b) The hearing a matter judicially.
(c) An acknowledgment of a fine of lands and tenements or confession
of a thing done. [Eng.]
(d) A form of defense in the action of replevin, by which the
defendant insists that the goods were lawfully taken, as a distress,
by defendant, acting as servant for another. [Eng.] Cowell. Mozley &
W.

4. The distinguishing mark worn by an armed knight, usually upon the
helmet, and by his retainers and followers: Hence, in general, a
badge worn by a retainer or dependent, to indicate the person or
party to which he belonged; a token by which a thing may be known.
Wearing the liveries and cognizance of their master. Prescott.
This pale and angry rose, As cognizance of my blood-drinking hate.
Shak.

COGNIZANT
Cog"ni*zant ( or ), a. Etym: [See Cognizance, and cf. Connusant.]

Defn: Having cognizance or knowledge. (of).

COGNIZE
Cog"nize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Cognizant, Recognize.]

Defn: To know or perceive; to recognize.
The reasoning faculty can deal with no facts until they are cognized
by it. H. Spencer.

COGNIZEE
Cog`ni*zee" ( or ), n. (Law)

Defn: One to whom a fine of land was ackowledged. Blackstone.

COGNIZOR
Cog`ni*zor, n. Etym: [See Cognizance.] (Law)

Defn: One who ackowledged the right of the plaintiff or cognizee in a
fine; the defendant. Blackstone.

COGNOMEN
Cog*no"men, n. Etym: [L.: co- + (g)nomen name.]

1. The last of the three names of a person among the ancient Romans,
denoting his house or family.

2. (Eng. Law)

Defn: A surname.

COGNOMINAL
Cog*nom"i*nal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cognomen; of the nature of a surname.

COGNOMINAL
Cog*nom"i*nal, n.

Defn: One bearing the same name; a namesake. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

COGNOMINATION
Cog*nom`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. cognominatio.]

Defn: A cognomen or surname. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

COGNOSCENCE
Cog*nos"cence, n. Etym: [LL. cognoscentia. See Cognizance.]

Defn: Cognizance. [R.] Dr. H. More.

COGNOSCENTE
Cog`nos*cen"te, n.; pl. Cognoscenti. Etym: [OIt. cognoscente, p. pr.
of cognoscere, It. conoscere to know.]

Defn: A conoisseur. Mason.

COGNOSCIBILITY
Cog*nos`ci*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being cognoscible. Cudworth.

COGNOSCIBLE
Cog*nos"ci*ble, a.

1. Capable of being known. "Matters intelligible and cognoscible."
Sir M. Hale.

2. Liable to judicial investigation. Jer. Taylor.

COGNOSCITIVE
Cog*nos"ci*tive, a.

Defn: Having the power of knowing. [Obs.] "An innate cognoscitive
power." Cudworth.

COGNOVIT
Cog*no"vit, n. Etym: [L., he has acknowledged.] (Law)

Defn: An instrument in writting whereby a defendant in an action
acknowledges a plaintiff's demand to be just. Mozley & W.

COGON
Co*gon", n. [Sp., prob. fr. a native name.]

Defn: A tall, coarse grass (Imperata arundinacea) of the Philippine
Islands and adjacent countries, used for thatching.

COGUARDIAN
Co*guard"i*an, n.

Defn: A joint guardian.

COGUE
Cogue, n. Etym: [Cf. Cog a small boat.]

Defn: A small wooden vessel; a pail. [Scot.] Jamieson.

COGWARE
Cog"ware`, n.

Defn: A coarse, narrow cloth, like frieze, used by the lower classes
in the sixteenth century. Halliwell.

COGWHEEL
Cog"wheel`, n.

Defn: A wheel with cogs or teeth; a gear wheel. See Illust. of
Gearing.

COHABIT
Co*hab"it, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cohabited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cohabiting.] Etym: [L. cohabitare; co- + habitare to dwell, to have
possession of (a place), freg. of habere to have. See Habit, n. & v.]

1. To inhabit or reside in company, or in the same place or country.
The Philistines were worsted by the captived ark . . . : they were
not able to cohabit with that holy thing. South.

2. To dwell or live together as husband and wife.
The law presumes that husband and wife cohabit together, even after a
voluntary separation has taken place between them. Bouvier.

Note: By the common law as existing in the United States, marriage is
presumed when a man and woman cohabit permanently together, being
reputed by those who know them to be husband and wife, and admitting
the relationship. Wharton.

COHABITANT
Co*hab"it*ant, n. Etym: [L. cohabitans, p. pr.]

Defn: One who dwells with another, or in the same place or country.
No small number of the Danes became peaceable cohabitants with the
Saxons in England. Sir W. Raleigh.

COHABITATION
Co*hab"i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. cohabitatio.]

1. The act or state of dwelling together, or in the same place with
another. Feltham.

2. (Law)

Defn: The living together of a man and woman in supposed sexual
relationship.
That the duty of cohabitation is released by the cruelty of one of
the parties is admitted. Lord Stowell.

COHABITER
Co*hab"it*er, n.

Defn: A cohabitant. Hobbes.

COHEIR
Co*heir, n.

Defn: A joint heir; one of two or more heirs; one of several entitled
to an inheritance.

COHEIRESS
Co*heir"ess, n.

Defn: A female heir who inherits with other heiresses; a joint
heiress.

COHEIRSHIP
Co*heir"ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a coheir.

COHERALD
Co*her"ald, n.

Defn: A joint herald.

COHERE
Co*here", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cohered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cohering.]
Etym: [L. cohaerere, cohaesum; co- + haerere to stick, adhere. See
Aghast, a.]

1. To stick together; to cleave; to be united; to hold fast, as parts
of the same mass.
Neither knows he . . . how the solid parts of the body are united or
cohere together. Locke.

2. To be united or connected together in subordination to one
purpose; to follow naturally and logically, as the parts of a
discourse, or as arguments in a train of reasoning; to be logically
consistent.
They have been inserted where they best seemed to cohere. Burke.

3. To suit; to agree; to fit. [Obs.]
Had time cohered with place, or place with wishing. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To cleave; unite; adhere; stick; suit; agree; fit; be consistent.

COHERENCE; COHERENCY
Co*her"ence, Co*her"en*cy, n. Etym: [L. cohaerentia: cf. F.
cohérence.]

1. A sticking or cleaving together; union of parts of the same body;
cohesion.

2. Connection or dependence, proceeding from the subordination of the
parts of a thing to one principle or purpose, as in the parts of a
discourse, or of a system of philosophy; consecutiveness.
Coherence of discourse, and a direct tendency of all the parts of it
to the argument in hand, are most eminently to be found in him.
Locke.

COHERENT
Co*her"ent, a. Etym: [L. cohaerens, p. pr. See Cohere.]

1. Sticking together; cleaving; as the parts of bodies; solid or
fluid. Arbuthnot.

2. Composed of mutually dependent parts; making a logical whole;
consistent; as, a coherent plan, argument, or discourse.

3. Logically consistent; -- applied to persons; as, a coherent
thinker. Watts.

4. Suitable or suited; adapted; accordant. [Obs.]
Instruct my daughter how she shall persever, That time and place,
with this deceit so lawful, May prove coherent. Shak.

COHERENTLY
Co*her"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a coherent manner.

COHERER
Co*her"er, n. (Elec.)

Defn: Any device in which an imperfectly conducting contact between
pieces of metal or other conductors loosely resting against each
other is materially improved in conductivity by the influence of
Hertzian waves; -- so called by Sir O. J. Lodge in 1894 on the
assumption that the impact of the electic waves caused the loosely
connected parts to cohere, or weld together, a condition easily
destroyed by tapping. A common form of coherer as used in wireless
telegraphy consists of a tube containing filings (usually a pinch of
nickel and silver filings in equal parts) between terminal wires or
plugs (called conductor plugs).

COHESIBILITY
Co*he`si*bil"i*ty ( or ), n.

Defn: The state of being cohesible. Good.

COHESIBLE
Co*he"si*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of cohesion.

COHESION
Co*he"sion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cohésion. See Cohere.]

1. The act or state of sticking together; close union.

2. (Physics)

Defn: That from of attraction by which the particles of a body are
united throughout the mass, whether like or unlike; -- distinguished
from adhesion, which unites bodies by their adjacent surfaces.
Solids and fluids differ in the degree of cohesion, which, being
increased, turns a fluid into a solid. Arbuthnot.

3. Logical agreement and dependence; as, the cohesion of ideas.
Locke.

COHESIVE
Co*he"sive, a.

1. Holding the particles of a homogeneous body together; as, cohesive
attraction; producing cohesion; as, a cohesive force.

2. Cohering, or sticking together, as in a mass; capable of cohering;
tending to cohere; as, cohesive clay. Cohesive attraction. See under
Attraction.
 -- Co*he"sive*ly, adv.
 -- Co*he"sive*ness, n.

COHIBIT
Co*hib"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cohibited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cohibiting.] Etym: [L. cohibitus, p. p. of cohibere to confine; co- +
habere to hold.]

Defn: To restrain. [Obs.] Bailey.

COHIBITION
Co`hi*bi"tion, n. Etym: [L. cohibitio.]

Defn: Hindrance; restraint. [Obs.]

COHOBATE
Co`ho*bate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cohobated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cohobating.] Etym: [LL. cohobare; prob. of Arabic origin: cf. F.
cohober.] (Anc. Chem.)

Defn: To repeat the distillation of, pouring the liquor back upon the
matter remaining in the vessel. Arbuthnot.

COHOBATION
Co`ho*ba"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cohobation.] (Anc. Chem.)

Defn: The process of cohobating. Grew.

COHORN
Co"horn, n. (Mil.)

Defn: See Coehorn.

COHORT
Co"hort, n. Etym: [L. cohors, prop. an inclosure: cf. F. cohorte. See
Court, n.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A body of about five or six hundred soldiers; the tenth part of
a legion.

2. Any band or body of warriors.
With him the cohort bright Of watchful cherubim. Milton.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A natural group of orders of plants, less comprehensive than a
class.

COHOSH
Co"hosh, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial American herb (Caulophyllum thalictroides), whose
roostock is used in medicine; -- also called pappoose root. The name
is sometimes also given to the Cimicifuga racemosa, and to two
species of Actæa, plants of the Crowfoot family.

COHUNE; COHUNE PALM
Co*hune", n., or Cohune palm . [Prob. fr. a native name in Honduras.]

Defn: A Central and South American pinnate-leaved palm (Attalea
cohune), the very large and hard nuts of which are turned to make
fancy articles, and also yield an oil used as a substitute for
coconut oil.

COIF
Coif (koif), n. Etym: [OF. coife, F. coiffe, LL. cofea, cuphia, fr.
OHG. kuppa, kuppha, miter, perh. fr. L. cupa tub. See Cup, n. ; but
cf. also Cop, Cuff the article of dress, Quoif, n.]

Defn: A cap. Specifically: (a) A close-fitting cap covering the sides
of the head, like a small hood without a cape. (b) An official
headdress, such as that worn by certain judges in England. [Writting
also quoif.]
From point and saucy ermine down To the plain coif and russet gown.
H. Brocke.
The judges, . . . althout they are not of the first magnitude, nor
need be of the degree of the coif, yet are they considerable. Bacon.

COIF
Coif (koif), v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. coiffer.]

Defn: To cover or dress with, or as with, a coif.
And coif me, where I'm bald, with flowers. J. G. Cooper.

COIFED
Coifed (koift), a.

Defn: Wearing a coif.

COIFFEUR
Coif`feur", n. [F.]

Defn: A hairdresser.

COIFFURE
Coif"fure, n. Etym: [F., fr. coiffer. See Coif.]

Defn: A headdress, or manner of dressing the hair. Addison.

COIGN
Coign, n.

Defn: A var. spelling of Coin, Quoin, a corner, wedge; -- chiefly
used in the phrase coign of vantage, a position advantageous for
action or observation.

From some shielded nook or coign of vantage.
The Century.

The lithosphere would be depressed on four faces; . . . the four
projecting coigns would stand up as continents.
Nature.

COIGNE
Coigne (koin), n. Etym: [See Coin, n.]

Defn: A quoin.
See you yound coigne of the Capitol yon corner stone Shak.

COIGNE; COIGNY
Coigne, Coign"y, n.

Defn: The practice of quartering one's self as landlord on a tenant;
a quartering of one's self on anybody. [Ireland] Spenser.

COIL
Coil (koil), v.t. [imp. & p. p. Coiled (koild); p. pr. & vb. n.
Coiling.] Etym: [OF. coillir, F. cueillir, to collect, gather
together, L. coligere; col- + legere to gather. See Legend, and cf.
Cull, v. t., Collect.]

1. To wind cylindrically or spirally; as, to coil a rope when not in
use; the snake coiled itself before springing.

2. To encircle and hold with, or as with, coils. [Obs. or R.] T.
Edwards.

COIL
Coil, v. i.

Defn: To wind itself cylindrically or spirally; to form a coil; to
wind; -- often with about or around.
You can see his flery serpents . . . Coiting, playing in the water.
Longfellow.

COIL
Coil, n.

1. A ring, series of rings, or spiral, into which a rope, or other
like thing, is wound.
The wild grapevines that twisted their coils from trec to tree. W.
Irving.

2. Fig.: Entanglement; toil; mesh; perplexity.

3. A series of connected pipes in rows or layers, as in a steam
heating apparatus. Induction coil. (Elec.) See under Induction.
 -- Ruhmkorff's coil (Elec.), an induction coil, sometimes so called
from Ruhmkorff (, a prominent manufacturer of the apparatus.

COIL
Coil, n. Etym: [Of Celtic origin; cf. Gael. goil fume, rage.]

Defn: A noise, tumult, bustle, or confusion. [Obs.] Shak.

COILON
Coi"lon, n. Etym: [F. See Cullion.]

Defn: A testicle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COIN
Coin (koin), n. Etym: [F. coin, formerly also coing, wedge, stamp,
corner, fr. L. cuneus wedge; prob. akin to E. cone, hone. See Hone,
n., and cf. Coigne, Quoin, Cuneiform.]

1. A quoin; a corner or external angle; a wegde. See Coigne, and
Quoin.

2. A piece of metal on which certain characters are stamped by
government authority, making it legally current as money; -- much
used in a collective sense.
It is alleged that it [a subsidy] exceeded all the current coin of
the realm. Hallam.

3. That which serves for payment or recompense.
The loss of present advantage to flesh and blood is repaid in a
nobler coin. Hammond.
Coin balance. See Illust. of Balance.
 -- To pay one in his own coin, to return to one the same kind of
injury or ill treatment as has been received from him. [Colloq.]

COIN
Coin, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coined (koind); p. pr. & vb. n. Coining.]

1. To make of a definite fineness, and convert into coins, as a mass
of metal; to mint; to manufacture; as, to coin silver dollars; to
coin a medal.

2. To make or fabricate; to invent; to originate; as, to coin a word.
Some tale, some new pretense, he daily coined, To soothe his sister
and delude her mind. Dryden.

3. To acquire rapidly, as money; to make.
Tenants cannot coin rent just at quarter day. Locke.

COIN
Coin, v. i.

Defn: To manufacture counterfeit money.
They cannot touch me for coining. Shak.

COINAGE
Coin"age, n. Etym: [From Coin, v. t., cf. Cuinage.]

1. The act or process of converting metal into money.
The care of the coinage was committed to the inferior magistrates.
Arbuthnot.

2. Coins; the aggregate coin of a time or place.

3. The cost or expense of coining money.

4. The act or process of fabricating or inventing; formation;
fabrication; that which is fabricated or forged. "Unnecessary coinage
. . . of words." Dryden.
This is the very coinage of your brain. Shak.

COINCIDE
Co`in*cide", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Coincided; p. pr. & vb. n.
Coinciding.] Etym: [L. co- + incidere to fall on; in + cadere to
fall: cf. F. coïncider. See Chance, n.]

1. To occupy the same place in space, as two equal triangles, when
placed one on the other.
If the equator and the ecliptic had coincided, it would have rendered
the annual revoluton of the earth useless. Cheyne.

2. To occur at the same time; to be contemporaneous; as, the fall of
Granada coincided with the discovery of America.

3. To correspond exactly; to agree; to concur; as, our aims coincide.
The rules of right jugdment and of good ratiocination often coincide
with each other. Watts.

COINCIDENCE
Co*in"ci*dence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. coïncidence.]

1. The condition of occupying the same place in space; as, the
coincidence of circles, surfaces, etc. Bentley.

2. The condition or fact of happening at the same time; as, the
coincidence of the deaths of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson.

3. Exact correspondence in nature, character, result, circumstances,
etc.; concurrence; agreement.
The very concurrence and coincidence of ao many evidences . . .
carries a great weight. Sir M. Hale.
Those who discourse . . . of the nature of truth . . . affirm a
perfect coincidence between truth and goodness. South.

COINCIDENCY
Co*in"ci*den*cy, n.

Defn: Coincidence. [R.]

COINCIDENT
Co*in"ci*dent, a. Etym: [Cf. F. coïncident.]

Defn: Having coincidence; occupying the same place; contemporaneous;
concurrent; -- followed by with.
Christianity teaches nothing but what is perfectly suitable to, and
coincident with, the ruling principles of a virtuous and well-
inclined man. South.

COINCIDENT
Co*in"ci*dent, n.

Defn: One of two or more coincident events; a coincidence. [R.]
"Coincidents and accidents." Froude.

COINCIDENTAL
Co*in`ci*den"tal, a.

Defn: Coincident.

COINCIDENTLY
Co*in"ci*dent*ly, adv.

Defn: With coincidence.

COINCIDER
Co`in*cid"er, n.

Defn: One who coincides with another in an opinion.

COINDICATION
Co*in`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. coïdication.]

Defn: One of several signs or sumptoms indicating the same fact; as,
a coindication of disease.

COINER
Coin"er, n.

1. One who makes or stamps coin; a maker of money; -- usually, a
maker of counterfeit money.
Precautions such as are employed by coiners and receivers of stolen
goods. Macaulay.

2. An inventor or maker, as of words. Camden.

COINHABITANT
Co`in*hab"it*ant, n.

Defn: One who dwells with another, or with others. "Coinhabitants of
the same element." Dr. H. More.

COINHERE
Co`in*here", v. i.

Defn: To inhere or exist together, as in one substance. Sir W.
Hamilton.

COINHERITANCE
Co`in*her"it*ance, n.

Defn: Joint inheritance.

COINHERITOR
Co`in*her"it*or, n.

Defn: A coheir.

COINITIAL
Co`in*i"tial, a. (Math.)

Defn: Having a common beginning.

COINQUINATE
Co*in"qui*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. coinquinatus, p. p. of coinquinare to
defile. See Inquinate.]

Defn: Topollute. [Obs.] Skelton.

COINQUINATION
Co*in`qui*na"tion, n.

Defn: Defilement. [Obs.]

COINSTANTANEOUS
Co*in"stan*ta"ne*ous, a.

Defn: Happening at the same instant. C. Darwin.

COINSURANCE
Co`in*sur"ance, n.  [Co- + insurance.]

Defn: Insurance jointly with another or others; specif., that system
of fire insurance in which the insurer is treated as insuring himself
to the extent of that part of the risk not covered by his policy, so
that any loss is apportioned between him and the insurance company on
the principle of average, as in marine insurance or between other
insurers.

COINTENSE
Co`intense", a.

Defn: Equal in intensity or degree; as, the relations between 6 and
12, and 8 and 16, are cointense. H. Spencer.

COINTENSION
Co`in*ten"sion, n.

Defn: The condition of being of equal in intensity; -- applied to
relations; as, 3 : 6 and 6 : 12 are relations of cointension.
Cointension . . . is chosen indicate the equality of relations in
respect of the contrast between their terms. H. Spencer.

COIR
Coir (koir), n. Etym: [Tamil kayiru.]

1. A material for cordage, matting, etc., consisting of the prepared
fiber of the outer husk of the cocoanut. Homans.

2. Cordage or cables, made of this material.

COISTRIL
Cois"tril, n. Etym: [Prob. from OF. coustillier groom or lad. Cf.
Custrel.]

1. An inferior groom or lad employed by an esquire to carry the
knight's arms and other necessaries. [Written also coistrel.]

2. A mean, paltry fellow; a coward. [Obs.] Shak.

COIT
Coit (koit), n. Etym: [See Quoit.]

Defn: A quoit. [Obs.] Carew.

COIT
Coit, v. t.

Defn: To throw, as a stone. [Obs.] See Quoit.

COITION
Co*i"tion, n. Etym: [L. coitio, fr. coire to come together; co- + ire
to go.]

Defn: A coming together; sexual intercourse; copulation. Grew.

COJOIN
Co*join", v. t.

Defn: To join; to conjoin. [R.] Shak.

COJUROR
Co*ju"ror, n.

Defn: One who swears to another's credibility. W. Wotton.

COKE
Coke, n. Etym: [Perh. akin to cake, n.]

Defn: Mineral coal charred, or depriver of its bitumen, sulphur, or
other volatile matter by roasting in a kiln or oven, or by
distillation, as in gas works. It is lagerly used where [Written also
coak.] Gas coke, the coke formed in gas retorts, as distinguished
from that made in ovens.

COKE
Coke, v. t.

Defn: To convert into coke.

COKENAY
Coke"nay, n.

Defn: A cockney. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COKERNUT
Co"ker*nut`, n. (Com.)

Defn: The cocoanut.

Note: A mode of spelling introduced by the London customhouse to
distinguish more widely between this and other articles spelt much in
the same manner.

COKES
Cokes, n. Etym: [OE. Cf. Coax.]

Defn: A simpleton; a gull; a dupe. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

COKEWOLD
Coke"wold, n.

Defn: Cuckold. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COL; COL-
Col

Defn: - (with, together. See Com-.

COL
Col, n. Etym: [F., neck, fr. L. collum neck.]

Defn: A short ridge connecting two higher elevations or mountains;
the pass over such a ridge.

COLA
Co"la, n. [NL., fr. a native name.] (Bot.)
 (a) A genus of sterculiaceous trees, natives of tropical Africa,
esp. Guinea, but now naturalized in tropical America, esp. in the
West Indies and Brazil.
 (b) Same as Cola nut, below.

COLA
Co"la, n.,

Defn: L. pl. of Colon.

COLABORER
Co*la"bor*er, n.

Defn: One who labors with another; an associate in labor.

COLANDER
Col"an*der, n. Etym: [L. colans, -antis, p. pr. of colare to filter,
to strain, fr. colum a strainer. Cf. Cullis, Culvert.]

Defn: A utensil with a bottom perforated with little holes for
straining liquids, mashed vegetable pulp, etc.; a strainer of
wickerwork, perfprated metal, or the like.

COLA NUT; COLA SEED
Cola nut, Cola seed. (Bot.)

Defn: The bitter fruit of Cola acuminata, which is nearly as large as
a chestnut, and furnishes a stimulant, which is used in medicine.

COLATION
Co*la"tion, n. Etym: [See Colander.]

Defn: The act or process of straining or filtering. [R.]

COLATITUDE
Co*lat"i*tude (; 134), n. Etym: [Formed like cosine. See Cosine.]

Defn: The complement of the latitude, or the difference between any
latitude and ninety degrees.

COLATURE
Col"a*ture, n. Etym: [L. colatura, from colare: cf. F. colature. See
Colander.]

Defn: The process of straining; the matter strained; a strainer. [R.]

COLBERTINE
Col"ber*tine, n. Etym: [From Jean Baptiste Colbert, a minister of
Louis XIV., who encouraged the lace manufacture in France.]

Defn: A kind of lace. [Obs.]
Pinners edged with colbertine. Swift.
Difference rose between Mechlin, the queen of lace, and colbertine.
Young.

COLCHICINE
Col"chi*cine ( or ), n. Etym: [Cf. F. colchicine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A powerful vegetable alkaloid, C17H19NO5, extracted from the
Colchicum autumnale, or meadow saffron, as a white or yellowish
amorphous powder, with a harsh, bitter taste; -- called also
colchicia.

COLCHICUM
Col"chi*cum, n. Etym: [L., a plant with a poisonous root, fr.
Colchicus Colchian, fr. Colchis, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of bulbous-rooted plants found in many parts of Europe,
including the meadow saffron.

Note: Preparations made from the poisonous bulbs and seeds, and
perhaps from the flowers, of the Colchicum autumnale (meadow saffron)
are used as remedies for gout and rheumatism.

COLCOTHAR
Col"co*thar, n. Etym: [NL. colcothar vitrioli, fr. Ar. qolqotar.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Polishing rouge; a reddish brown oxide of iron, used in
polishing glass, and also as a pigment; -- called also crocus Martis.

COLD
Cold, a. [Compar. Colder; superl. Coldest.] Etym: [OE. cold, cald,
AS. cald, ceald; akin to OS. kald, D. koud, G. kalt, Icel. kaldr,
Dan. kold, Sw. kall, Goth. kalds, L. gelu frost, gelare to freeze.
Orig. p. p. of AS. calan to be cold, Icel. kala to freeze. Cf. Cool,
a., Chill, n.]

1. Deprived of heat, or having a low temperature; not warm or hot;
gelid; frigid. "The snowy top of cold Olympis." Milton.

2. Lacking the sensation of warmth; suffering from the absence of
heat; chilly; shivering; as, to be cold.

3. Not pungent or acrid. "Cold plants." Bacon

4. Wanting in ardor, intensity, warmth, zeal, or passion; spiritless;
unconcerned; reserved.
A cold and unconcerned spectator. T. Burnet.
No cold relation is a zealous citizen. Burke.

5. Unwelcome; disagreeable; unsatisfactory. "Cold news for me." "Cold
comfort." Shak.

6. Wanting in power to excite; dull; uninteresting.
What a deal of cold business doth a man misspend the better part of
life in! B. Jonson.
The jest grows cold . . . when in comes on in a second scene.
Addison.

7. Affecting the sense of smell (as of hunting dogs) but feebly;
having lost its odor; as, a cold scent.

8. Not sensitive; not acute.
Smell this business with a sense as cold As is a dead man's nose.
Shak.

9. Distant; -- said, in the game of hunting for some object, of a
seeker remote from the thing concealed.

10. (Paint.)

Defn: Having a bluish effect. Cf. Warm, 8. Cold abscess. See under
Abscess.
 -- Cold blast See under Blast, n., 2. Cold blood. See under Blood,
n., 8.
 -- Cold chill, an ague fit. Wright.
 -- Cold chisel, a chisel of peculiar strength and hardness, for
cutting cold metal. Weale.
 -- Cold cream. See under Cream.
 -- Cold slaw. See Cole slaw.
 -- In cold blood, without excitement or passion; deliberately.
He was slain in cold blood after thefight was over. Sir W. Scott.
To give one the cold shoulder, to treat one with neglect.

Syn.
 -- Gelid; bleak; frigid; chill; indifferent; unconcerned;
passionless; reserved; unfeeling; stoical.

COLD
Cold, n.

1. The relative absence of heat or warmth.

2. The sensation produced by the escape of heat; chilliness or
chillness.
When she saw her lord prepared to part, A deadly cold ran shivering
to her heart. Dryden.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid state of the animal system produced by exposure to
cold or dampness; a catarrh. Cold sore (Med.), a vesicular eruption
appearing about the mouth as the result of a cold, or in the course
of any disease attended with fever.
 -- To leave one out in the cold, to overlook or neglect him.
[Colloq.] Cold, v. i.

Defn: To become cold. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COLD-BLOODED
Cold"-blood`ed, a.

1. Having cold blood; -- said of fish or animals whose blood is but
little warmer than the water or air about them.

2. Deficient in sensibility or feeling; hard-hearted.

3. Not thoroughbred; -- said of animals, as horses, which are derived
from the common stock of a country.

COLDFINCH
Cold"finch`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A British wagtail.

COLD-HEARTED
Cold"-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Wanting passion or feeling; indifferent.
 -- Cold"-heart`ed*ness, n.

COLDISH
Cold"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat cold; cool; chilly.

COLDLY
Cold"ly, adv.

Defn: In a cold manner; without warmth, animation, or feeling; with
indifference; calmly.
Withdraw unto some private place, And reason coldly of your
grievances. Shak.

COLDNESS
Cold"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being cold.

COLD-SHORT
Cold"-short`, a.

Defn: Brittle when cold; as, cold-short iron.

COLD-SHUT
Cold"-shut`, a. (Metal.)

Defn: Closed while too cold to become thoroughly welded; -- said of a
forging or casting.
 -- n.

Defn: An imperfection caused by such insufficient welding.

COLD WAVE
Cold" wave". (Meteor.)

Defn: In the terminology of the United States Weather Bureau, an
unusual fall in temperature, to or below the freezing point,
exceeding 16º in twenty-four hours or 20º in thirty-six hours,
independent of the diurnal range.

COLE
Cole, n. Etym: [OE. col, caul, AS. cawl, cawel, fr. L. caulis, the
stalk or stem of a plant, esp. a cabbage stalk, cabbage, akin to Gr.
Cauliflower, Kale.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the Brassica or Cabbage genus; esp. that form of B.
oleracea called rape and coleseed.

CO-LEGATEE
Co-leg`a*tee", n.

Defn: A joint legatee.

COLEGOOSE
Cole"goose`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Coalgoose.

COLEMANITE
Cole"man*ite, n. Etym: [From W.T. Coleman of San Francisco.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous borate of lime occurring in transparent colorless or
white crystals, also massive, in Southern California.

COLEMOUSE
Cole"mouse`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Coletit.

COLEOPTER
Co`le*op"ter, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Coleoptera.

COLEOPTERA
Co`le*op"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of insects having the anterior pair of wings (elytra)
hard and horny, and serving as coverings for the posterior pair,
which are membranous, and folded transversely under the others when
not in use. The mouth parts form two pairs of jaws (mandibles and
maxillæ) adapted for chewing. Most of the Coleoptera are known as
beetles and weevils.

COLEOPTERAL; COLEOPTEROUS
Co`le*op"ter*al, Co`le*op"ter*ous a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having wings covered with a case or sheath; belonging to the
Coleoptera.

COLEOPTERAN
Co`le*op"ter*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the order of Coleoptera.

COLEOPTERIST
Co`le*op"ter*ist, n.

Defn: One versed in the study of the Coleoptera.

COLEORHIZA
Co`le*o*rhi"za, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A sheath in the embryo of grasses, inclosing the caulicle.
Gray.

COLEPERCH
Cole"perch`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of small black perch.

COLERA
Col"e*ra, n. Etym: [L. cholera. See Choler.]

Defn: Bile; choler. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COLERIDGIAN
Cole*ridg"i*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, or to his poetry or
metaphysics.

COLESEED
Cole"seed`, n.

Defn: The common rape or cole.

COLESLAW
Cole"slaw`, n. Etym: [D. kool slaa cabbage salad.]

Defn: A salad made of sliced cabbage.

CO-LESSEE
Co`-les*see", n.

Defn: A partner in a lease taen.

CO-LESSOR
Co`-les*sor", n.

Defn: A partner in giving a lease.

COLESTAFF
Cole"staff`, n.

Defn: See Colstaff.

COLET; COLLET
Col"et, Col"letEtym: [Corrupted fr. acolyte.]

Defn: An inferior church servant. [Obs.] See Acolyte.

COLETIT; COALTIT
Cole"tit` or Coal"tit, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European titmouse (Parus ater), so named from its black
color; -- called also coalmouse and colemouse.

COLEUS
Co"le*us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of several species of the Mint family, cultivated for
its bright-colored or variegated leaves.

COLEWORT
Cole"wort`, n. Etym: [AS. cawlwyrt; cawl cole + wyrt wort. Cf.
Collards.]

1. A variety of cabbage in which the leaves never form a compact
head.

2. Any white cabbage before the head has become firm.

COLFOX
Col"fox`, n.

Defn: A crafty fox. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COLIC
Col"ic, n. Etym: [F. colique, fr. L. colicus sick with the colic, GR.
Colon.] (Med.)

Defn: A severe paroxysmal pain in the abdomen, due to spasm,
obstruction, or distention of some one of the hollow viscera. Hepatic
colic, the severe pain produced by the passage of a gallstone from
the liver or gall bladder through the bile duct.
 -- Intestinal colic, or Ordinary colic, pain due to distention of
the intestines by gas.
 -- Lead colic, Painter's colic, a violent form of intestinal colic,
associated with obstinate constipation, produced by chronic lead
poisoning.
 -- Renal colic, the severe pain produced by the passage of a
calculus from the kidney through the ureter.
 -- Wind colic. See Intestinal colic, above.

COLIC
Col"ic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to colic; affecting the bowels. Milton.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the colon; as, the colic arteries.

COLICAL
Col"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or of the nature of, colic. Swift.

COLICKY
Col"ick*y, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or troubled with, colic; as, a colicky disorder.

COLICROOT
Col"ic*root`, n.

Defn: A bitter American herb of the Bloodwort family, with the leaves
all radical, and the small yellow or white flowers in a long spike
(Aletris farinosa and A. aurea). Called sometimes star grass,
blackroot, blazing star, and unicorn root.

COLIN
Col"in, n. Etym: [F. colin; prop. a dim. of Colas, contr. fr. Nicolas
Nicholas.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American quail or bobwhite. The name is also applied to
other related species. See Bobwhite.

COLISEUM
Col`i*se"um, n. Etym: [NL. (cf. It. coliseo, colosseo), fr. L.
colosseus colossal, fr. colossus a colossus. See Colossus, and cf.
Colosseum.]

Defn: The amphitheater of Vespasian at Rome, the largest in the
world. [Written also Colosseum.]

COLITIS
Co*li"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: An inflammation of the large intestine, esp. of its mucous
membrane; colonitis.

COLL
Coll, v. t. Etym: [OF. coler, fr. L. collum neck.]

Defn: To embrace. [Obs.] "They coll and kiss him." Latimer.

COLLABORATEUR
Col*la`bo*ra*teur", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Collaborator.

COLLABORATION
Col*lab`o*ra"tion, n.

Defn: The act ofworking together; united labor.

COLLABORATOR
Col*lab"o*ra`tor, n. Etym: [L. collaborare to labor together; col- +
laborare to labor: cf. F. collaborateur.]

Defn: An associate in labor, especially in literary or scientific
labor.

COLLAGEN
Col"la*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The chemical basis of ordinary connective tissue, as of tendons
or sinews and of bone. On being boiled in water it becomes gelatin or
glue.

COLLAGENOUS
Col*lag"e*nous, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Containing or resembling collagen.

COLLAPSE
Col*lapse", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Collapsed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Collapsing] Etym: [L. collapsus, p. p. of collabi to collapse; col- +
labi to fall, slide. See Lapse.]

1. To fall together suddenly, as the sides of a hollow vessel; to
close by falling or shrinking together; to have the sides or parts of
(a thing) fall in together, or be crushed in together; as, a flue in
the boiler of a steam engine sometimes collapses.
A balloon collapses when the gas escapes from it. Maunder.

2. To fail suddenly and completely, like something hollow when
subject to too much pressure; to undergo a collapse; as, Maximilian's
government collapsed soon after the French army left Mexico; many
financial projects collapse after attaining some success and
importance.

COLLAPSE
Col*lapse", n.

1. A falling together suddenly, as of the sides of a hollow vessel.

2. A sudden and complete failure; an utter failure of any kind; a
breakdown. [Colloq.]

3. (Med.)

Defn: Extreme depression or sudden failing o

COLLAPSION
Col*lap"sion, n. Etym: [L. collapsio.]

Defn: Collapse. [R.] Johnson.

COLLAR
Col"lar, n. Etym: [OE. coler, coller, OF. colier, F. collier,
necklace, collar, fr. OF. col neck, F. cou, fr. L. collum; akin to
AS. heals, G. & Goth. hals. Cf. Hals, n.]

1. Something worn round the neck, whether for use, ornament,
restraint, or identification; as, the collar of a coat; a lady's
collar; the collar of a dog.

2. (Arch.)
(a) A ring or cinture.
(b) A collar beam.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The neck or line of junction between the root of a plant and
its stem. Gray.

4. An ornament worn round the neck by knights, having on it devises
to designate their rank or order.

5. (Zoöl.)
(a) A ringlike part of a mollusk in connection with esophagus.
(b) A colored ring round the neck of a bird or mammal.

6. (Mech.)

Defn: A ring or round flange upon, surrounding, or against an object,
and used for rastraining motion within given limits, or for holding
something to its place, or for hibing an opening around an object;
as, a collar on a shaft, used to prevent endwise motion of the shaft;
a collar surrounding a stovepipe at the place where it enters a wall.
The flanges of a piston and the gland of a stuffing box are sometimes
called collars.

7. (Naut.)

Defn: An eye formed in the bight or bend of a shroud or stay to go
over the masthead; also, a rope to which certain parts of rigging, as
dead-eyes, are secured.

8. (Mining)

Defn: A curb, or a horizontal timbering, around the mouth of a shaft.
Raymond. Collar beam (Arch.), a horizontal piece of timber connecting
and tying together two opposite rafters; -- also, called simply
collar.
 -- Collar of brawn, the quantity of brawn bound up in one parcel.
[Eng.] Johnson.
 -- Collar day, a day of great ceremony at the English court, when
persons, who are dignitaries of honorary orders, wear the collars of
those orders.
 -- To slip the collar, to get free; to disentangle one's self from
difficulty, labor, or engagement. Spenser.

COLLAR
Col"lar, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Collared; p. pr. & vb. n. Collaring.]

1. To seize by the collar.

2. To put a collar on. To collar beef (or other meat), to roll it up,
and bind it close with a string preparatory to cooking it.

COLLAR BONE
Col"lar bone`. (Anat.)

Defn: The clavicle.

COLLARDS
Col"lards, n., pl. Etym: [Corrupted fr. colewort.]

Defn: Young cabbage, used as "greens"; esp. a kind cultivated for
that purpose; colewort. [Colloq. Souther U. S.]

COLLARED
Col"lared, a.

1. Wearing a collar. "Collared with gold." Chaucer.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Wearing a collar; -- said of a man or beast used as a bearing
when a collar is represented as worn around the neck or loins.

3. Rolled up and bound close with a string; as, collared beef. See To
collar beef, under Collar, v. t.

COLLARET; COLLARETTE
Col`lar*et",  Col`la*rette", n. [F. collerette, dim. of collier. See
Collar.]

Defn: A small collar; specif., a woman's collar of lace, fur, or
other fancy material.

COLLATABLE
Col*lat"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being collated. Coleridge.

COLLATE
Col*late", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Collated; p. pr. & vb. n. Collating.]
Etym: [From Collation.]

1. To compare critically, as books or manuscripts, in order to note
the points of agreement or disagreement.
I must collage it, word, with the original Hebrew. Coleridge.

2. To gather and place in order, as the sheets of a book for binding.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: To present and institute in a benefice, when the person
presenting is both the patron and the ordinary; -- followed by to.

4. To bestow or confer. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

COLLATE
Col*late", v. i. (Ecl.)

Defn: To place in a benefice, when the person placing is both the
patron and the ordinary.
If the bishop neglets to collate within six months, the right to do
it devolves on the archbishop. Encyc. Brit.

COLLATERAL
Col*lat"er*al, a. Etym: [LL. collateralis; col- + lateralis lateral.
See Lateral.]

1. Coming from, being on, or directed toward, the side; as,
collateral pressure. "Collateral light." Shak.

2. Acting in an indirect way.
If by direct or by collateral hand They find us touched, we will our
kingdom give . . . To you in satisfaction. Shak.

3. Related to, but not strictly a part of, the main thing or matter
under consideration; hence, subordinate; not chief or principal; as,
collateral interest; collateral issues.
That he [Attebury] was altogether in the wrong on the main question,
and on all the collateral questions springing out of it, . . . is
true. Macaulay.

4. Tending toward the same conclusion or result as something else;
additional; as, collateral evidence.
Yet the attempt may give Collateral interest to this homely tale.
Wordsworth.

5. (Genealogy)

Defn: Descending from the same stock or ancestor, but not in the same
line or branch or one from the other; -- opposed to lineal.

Note: Lineal descendants proceed one from another in a direct line;
collateral relations spring from a common ancestor, but from
different branches of that common stirps or stock. Thus the children
of brothers are collateral relations, having different fathers, but a
common grandfather. Blackstone.

Collateral assurance, that which is made, over and above the deed
itself.
 -- Collateral circulation (Med. & Physiol.), circulation established
through indirect or subordinate branches when the supply through the
main vessel is obstructed.
 -- Collateral issue. (Law) (a) An issue taken upon a matter aside
from the merits of the case. (b) An issue raised by a criminal
convict who pleads any matter allowed by law in bar of execution, as
pardon, diversity of person, etc. (c) A point raised, on cross-
examination, aside from the issue fixed by the pleadings, as to which
the answer of the witness, when given, cannot subsequently be
contradicted by the party asking the question.
 -- Collateral security, security for the performance of covenants,
or the payment of money, besides the principal security,

COLLATERAL
Col*lat"er*al, n.

1. A collateral relative. Ayliffe.

2. Collateral security; that which is pledged or deposited as
collateral security.

COLLATERALLY
Col*lat"er*al*ly, adv.

1. Side by side; by the side.
These pulleys . . . placed collaterally. Bp. Wilkins.

2. In an indirect or subordinate manner; indirectly.
The will hath force upon the conscience collaterally and indirectly.
Jer. Taylor.

3. In collateral relation; not lineally.

COLLATERALNESS
Col*lat"er*al*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being collateral.

COLLATION
Col*la"tion, n. Etym: [OE. collacioun speech, conference, reflection,
OF. collacion, F. collation, fr. L. collatio a bringing together,
comparing, fr. collatum (used as the supine of conferre); col- +
latium (used as the supine of ferre to bear), for tlatum. See
Tolerate, v. t.]

1. The act of collating or comparing; a comparison of one copy er
thing (as of a book, or manuscript) with another of a like kind;
comparison, in general. Pope.

2. (Print.)

Defn: The gathering and examination of sheets preparatory to binding.

3. The act of conferring or bestowing. [Obs.]
Not by the collation of the king . . . but by the people. Bacon.

4. A conference. [Obs.] Chaucer.

5. (Eccl. Law)

Defn: The presentation of a clergyman to a benefice by a bishop, who
has it in his own gift.

6. (Law)
(a) The act of comparing the copy of any paper with its original to
ascertain its conformity.
(b) The report of the act made by the proper officers.

7. (Scots Law)

Defn: The right which an heir has of throwing the whole heritable and
movable estates of the deceased into one mass, and sharing it equaly
with others who are of the same degree of kindred.

Note: This also obtains in the civil law, and is found in the code of
Louisiana. Bouvier.

8. (Eccles.)

Defn: A collection of the Lives of the Fathers or other devout work
read daily in monasteries.

9. A light repast or luncheon; as, a cold collation; -- first applied
to the refreshment on fast days that accompanied the reading of the
collation in monasteries.
A collation of wine and sweetmeats. Whiston.
Collation of seals (Old Law), a method of ascertaining the
genuineness of a seal by comparing it with another known to be
genuine. Bouvier.

COLLATION
Col*la"tion, v. i.

Defn: To partake of a collation. [Obs.]
May 20, 1658, I . . . collationed in Spring Garden. Evelyn.

COLLATIONER
Col*la"tion*er, n. (Print.)

Defn: One who examines the sheets of a book that has just been
printed, to ascertain whether they are correctly printed, paged, etc.
[Eng.]

COLLATITIOUS
Col`la*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. collatitius. See Collation.]

Defn: Brought together; contributed; done by contributions. [Obs.]
Bailey.

COLLATIVE
Col*la"tive, a. Etym: [L. collativus brought together. ]

Defn: Passing or held by collation; -- said of livings of which the
bishop and the patron are the same person.

COLLATOR
Col*la"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who collates manuscripts, books, etc. Addison.

2. (Eccl. Law)

Defn: One who collates to a benefice.

3. One who confers any benefit. [Obs.] Feltham.

COLLAUD
Col*laud", v. t. Etym: [L. collaudare; col- + laudare to praise.]

Defn: To join in praising. [Obs.] Howell.

COLLEAGUE
Col"league, n. Etym: [F. coll*gue, L. collega one chosen at the same
time with another, a partner in office; col- + legare to send or
choose as deputy. See Legate.]

Defn: A partner or associate in some civil or ecclesiastical office
or employment. It is never used of partners in trade or manufactures.

Syn.
 -- Helper; assistant; coadjutor; ally; associate; companion;
confederate.

COLLEAGUE
Col*league", v.t & i.

Defn: To unite or associate with another or with others. [R.] Shak.

COLLEAGUESHIP
Col"league*ship, n.

Defn: Partnership in office. Milton.

COLLECT
Col*lect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Collected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Collecting.] Etym: [L. collecrus, p. p. of collerige to bind
together; col- + legere to gather: cf. OF. collecter. See Legend, and
cf. Coil, v. t., Cull, v. t.]

1. To gather into one body or place; to assemble or bring together;
to obtain by gathering.
A band of men Collected choicely from each country. Shak.
'Tis memory alone that enriches the mind, by preserving what our
labor and industry daily collect. Watts.

2. To demand and obtain payment of, as an account, or other
indebtedness; as, to collect taxes.

3. To infer from observed facts; to conclude from premises.
[Archaic.] Shak.
Which sequence, I conceive, is very ill collected. Locke.
To collect one's self, to recover from surprise, embarrassment, or
fear; to regain self-control.

Syn.
 -- To gather; assemble; congregate; muster; accumulate; garner;
aggregate; amass; infer; deduce.

COLLECT
Col*lect", v. i.

1. To assemble together; as, the people collected in a crowd; to
accumulate; as, snow collects in banks.

2. To infer; to conclude. [Archaic]
Whence some collect that the former word imports a plurality of
persons. South.

COLLECT
Col"lect, n. Etym: [LL. collecta, fr. L. collecta a collection in
money; an assemblage, fr. collerige: cf. F. collecte. See Collect, v.
t.]

Defn: A short, comprehensive prayer, adapted to a particular day,
occasion, or condition, and forming part of a liturgy.
The noble poem on the massacres of Piedmont is strictly a collect in
verse. Macaulay.

COLLECTANEA
Col`lec*ta"ne*a, n. pl. Etym: [Neut. pl. from L. collectaneus
collected, fr. colligere. See Collect, v. t.]

Defn: Passages selected from various authors, usually for purposes of
instruction; miscellany; anthology.

COLLECTED
Col*lect"ed, a.

1. Gathered together.

2. Self-possessed; calm; composed.

COLLECTEDLY
Col*lect"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Composedly; coolly.

COLLECTEDNESS
Col*lect"ed*ness, n.

Defn: A collected state of the mind; self-possession.

COLLECTIBLE
Col*lect"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being collected.

COLLECTION
Col*lec"tion, n. Etym: [L. collectio: cf. F. collection.]

1. The act or process of collecting or of gathering; as, the
collection of specimens.

2. That which is collected; as: (a) A gathering or assemblage of
objects or of persons. "A collection of letters." Macaulay.
(b) A gathering of money for charitable or other purposes, as by
passing a contribution box for freewill offerings. "The collection
for the saints." 1 Cor. xvi. 1
(c) (Usually in pl.) That which is obtained in payment of demands.
(d) An accumulation of any substance. "Collections of moisture."
Whewell. "A purulent collection." Dunglison.

3. The act of inferring or concluding from premises or observed
facts; also, that which is inferred. [Obs.]
We may safely say thus, that wrong collections have been hitherto
made out of those words by modern divines. Milton.

4. The jurisdiction of a collector of excise. [Eng.]

Syn.
 -- Gathering; assembly; assemblage; group; crowd; congregation;
mass; heap; compilation.

COLLECTIONAL
Col*lec"tion*al (-al), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to collecting.
The first twenty-five [years] must have been wasted for collectional
purposes. H. A. Merewether.

COLLECTIVE
Col*lect"ive, a. Etym: [L. collectivus: cf. F. collectif.]

1. Formed by gathering or collecting; gathered into a mass, sum, or
body; congregated or aggregated; as, the collective body of a nation.
Bp. Hoadley.

2. Deducing consequences; reasoning; inferring. [Obs.] "Critical and
collective reason." Sir T. Browne.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: Expressing a collection or aggregate of individuals, by a
singular form; as, a collective name or noun, like assembly, army,
juri, etc.

4. Tending to collect; forming a collection.
Local is his throne . . . to fix a point, A central point, collective
of his sons. Young.

5. Having plurality of origin or authority; as, in diplomacy, a note
signed by the representatives of several governments is called a
collective note. Collective fruit (Bot.), that which is formed from a
mass of flowers, as the mulberry, pineapple, and the like; -- called
also multiple fruit. Gray.

COLLECTIVE
Col*lect"ive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: A collective noun or name.

COLLECTIVELY
Col*lect"ive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mass, or body; in a collected state; in the aggregate;
unitedly.

COLLECTIVENESS
Col*lect"ive*ness, n.

Defn: A state of union; mass.

COLLECTIVISM
Col*lect"iv*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. collectivisme.] (Polit. Econ.)

Defn: The doctrine that land and capital should be owned by society
collectively or as a whole; communism. W. G. Summer.

COLLECTIVIST
Col*lect"iv*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. collectiviste.]

Defn: An advocate of collectivism.
 -- a.

Defn: Relating to, or characteristic of, collectivism.

COLLECTIVITY
Col`lec*tiv"i*ty, n.

1. Quality or state of being collective.

2.  The collective sum. aggregate, or mass of anything; specif., the
people as a body; the state.

The proposition to give work by the collectivity is supposed to be in
contravention of the sacred principle of monopolistic competition.
W. D. Howells.

3.  (Polit. Econ.) Collectivism.

COLLECTOR
Col*lect"or, n. Etym: [LL. collector one who collects: cf. F.
collecteur.]

1. One who collects things which are separate; esp., one who makes a
business or practice of collecting works of art, objects in natural
history, etc.; as, a collector of coins.
I digress into Soho to explore a bookstall. Methinks I have been
thirty years a collector. Lamb.

2. A compiler of books; one who collects scattered passages and puts
them together in one book.
Volumes without the collector's own reflections. Addison.

3. (Com.)

Defn: An officer appointed and commissioned to collect and receive
customs, duties, taxes, or toll.
A great part of this is now embezzled . . . by collectors, and other
officers. Sir W. Temple.

4. One authorized to collect debts.

5. A bachelor of arts in Oxford, formerly appointed to superintend
some scholastic proceedings in Lent. Todd.

COLLECTORATE
Col*lect"or*ate, n.

Defn: The district of a collector of customs; a collectorship.

COLLECTORSHIP
Col*lect"or*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a collector of customs or of taxes.

COLLEEN
Col*leen", n. [Ir. cailin.]

Defn: A girl; a maiden. [Anglo-Irish]

Of all the colleens in the land
Sweet Mollie is the daisy.
The Century.

COLLEGATARY
Col*leg"a*ta*ry, n. Etym: [L. collegetarius. See Legatary.] (Law)

Defn: A joint legatee.

COLLEGE
Col"lege, n. Etym: [F. collège, L. collegium, fr. collega colleague.
See Colleague.]

1. A collection, body, or society of persons engaged in common
pursuits, or having common duties and interests, and sometimes, by
charter, peculiar rights and privileges; as, a college of heralds; a
college of electors; a college of bishops.
The college of the cardinals. Shak.
Then they made colleges of sufferers; persons who, to secure their
inheritance in the world to come, did cut off all their portion in
this. Jer. Taylor.

2. A society of scholars or friends of learning, incorporated for
study or instruction, esp. in the higher branches of knowledge; as,
the colleges of Oxford and Cambridge Universities, and many American
colleges.

Note: In France and some other parts of continental Europe, college
is used to include schools occupied with rudimentary studies, and
receiving children as pupils.

3. A building, or number of buildings, used by a college. "The gate
of Trinity College." Macaulay.

4. Fig.: A community. [R.]
Thick as the college of the bees in May. Dryden.
College of justice, a term applied in Scotland to the supreme civil
courts and their principal officers.
 -- The sacred college, the college or cardinals at Rome.

COLLEGIAL
Col*le"gi*al, n. Etym: [LL. collegialis.]

Defn: Collegiate. [R.]

COLLEGIAN
Col*le"gi*an, n.

Defn: A member of a college, particularly of a literary institution
so called; a student in a college.

COLLEGIATE
Col*le"gi*ate, a. Etym: [L. collegiatus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a college; as, collegiate studies; a
collegiate society. Johnson. Collegiate church. (a) A church which,
although not a bishop's seat, resembles a cathedral in having a
college, or chapter of canons (and, in the Church of England, a
dean), as Westminster Abbey. (b) An association of churches,
possessing common revenues and administered under the joint pastorate
of several ministers; as, the Reformed (Dutch) Collegiate Church of
New York.

COLLEGIATE
Col*le"gi*ate, n.

Defn: A member of a college. Burton.

COLLEMBOLA
Col*lem"bo*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of Thysanura which includes Podura, and allied
forms.

COLLENCHYMA
Col*len"chy*ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. parenchyma.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tissue of vegetable cells which are thickend at the angles
and (usually) elongated.

COLLET
Col"let, n. Etym: [F. collet, dim. fr. L. collum neck. See Collar.]

1. A small collar or neckband. Foxe.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: A small metal ring; a small collar fastened on an arbor; as,
the collet on the balance arbor of a watch; a small socket on a stem,
for holding a drill.

3. (Jewelry)
(a) The part of a ring containing the bezel in which the stone is
set.
(b) The flat table at the base of a brilliant. See Illust. of
Brilliant.
How full the collet with his jewel is! Cowley.

COLLETERIAL
Col`le*te"ri*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the colleterium of insects. R. Owen.

COLLETERIUM
Col`le*te"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Colletic.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An organ of female insects, containing a cement to unite the
ejected ova.

COLLETIC
Col*let"ic, a. Etym: [L. colleticus suitable for gluing, Gr.

Defn: Agglutinant.
 -- n.

Defn: An agglutinant.

COLLEY
Col"ley, n.

Defn: See Collie.

COLLIDE
Col*lide", v. i. Etym: [L. collidere, collisum; col- + laedere to
strike. See Lesion.]

Defn: To strike or dash against each other; to come into collision;
to clash; as, the vessels collided; their interests collided.
Across this space the attraction urges them. They collide, they
recoil, they oscillate. Tyndall.
No longer rocking and swaying, but clashing and colliding. Carlyle.

COLLIDE
Col*lide", v. t.

Defn: To strike or dash against. [Obs.]
Scintillations are . . . inflammable effluencies from the bodies
collided. Sir T. Browne.

COLLIDINE
Col"li*dine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of organic bases, C8H11N, usually pungent oily
liquids, belonging to the pyridine series, and obtained from bone
oil, coal tar, naphtha, and certain alkaloids.

COLLIE
Col"lie, n. Etym: [Gael. cuilean whelp, puppy, dog.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Scotch shepherd dog. There are two breeds, the rough-haired
and smooth-haired. It is remarkable for its intelligence, displayed
especially in caring for flocks. [Written also colly, colley.]

COLLIED
Col"lied, p. & a.

Defn: Darkened. See Colly, v. t.

COLLIER
Col"lier, n. Etym: [OE. colier. See Coal.]

1. One engaged in the business of digging mineral coal or making
charcoal, or in transporting or dealing in coal.

2. A vessel employed in the coal trade.

COLLIERY
Col"lier*y, n.; pl. Collieries. Etym: [Cf. Coalery, Collier.]

1. The place where coal is dug; a coal mine, and the buildings, etc.,
belonging to it.

2. The coal trade. [Obs.] Johnson.

COLLIFLOWER
Col"li*flow`er, n.

Defn: See Cauliflower.

COLLIGATE
Col"li*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Colligated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Colligating.] Etym: [L. colligatus, p. p. of colligare to collect;
co- + ligare to bind.]

1. To tie or bind together.
The pieces of isinglass are colligated in rows. Nicholson.

2. (Logic)

Defn: To bring together by colligation; to sum up in a single
proposition.
He had discovered and colligated a multitude of the most wonderful .
. . phenomena. Tundall.

COLLIGATE
Col"li*gate, a.

Defn: Bound together.

COLLIGATION
Col`li*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. colligatio.]

1. A binding together. Sir T. Browne.

2. (Logic)

Defn: That process by which a number of isolated facts are brought
under one conception, or summed up in a general proposition, as when
Kepler discovered that the various observed positions of the planet
Mars were points in an ellipse. "The colligation of facts." Whewell.
Colligation is not always induction, but induction is always
colligation. J. S. Mill.

COLLIMATE
Col"li*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Collimated; p. p. & vb. n.
Collimating.] Etym: [See Collimation.] (Physics & Astron.)

Defn: To render parallel to a certain line or direction; to bring
into the same line, as the axes of telescopes, etc.; to render
parallel, as rays of light.

Collimating eyepiece, an eyepiece with a diagonal reflector for
illumination, used to determine the error of collimation in a transit
instrument by observing the image of a cross wire reflected from
mercury, and comparing its position in the field with that of the
same wire seen directly.
 -- Collimating lens (Optics), a lens used for producing parallel
rays of light.

COLLIMATION
Col`li*ma"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. collimation, fr. a false reading
(collimare) for L. collineare to direct in a straight line; col- +
linea line. Cf. Collineation.]

Defn: The act of collimating; the adjustment of the line of the
sights, as the axial line of the telescope of an instrument, into its
proper position relative to the other parts of the instrument. Error
of collimation, the deviation of the line collimation of an
astronomical instrument from the position it ought to have with
respect to the axis of motion of the instrument.
 -- Line of collimation, the axial line of the telescope of an
astronomical or geodetic instrument, or the line which passes through
the optical center of the object glass and the intersection of the
cross wires at its focus.

COLLIMATOR
Col"li*ma`tor, n.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: A telescope arranged and used to determine errors of
collimation, both vertical and horizontal. Nichol.

2. (Optics)

Defn: A tube having a convex lens at one end and at the other a small
opening or slit which is at the principal focus of the lens, used for
producing a beam of parallel rays; also, a lens so used.

COLLIN
Col"lin, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A very pure form of gelatin.

COLLINE
Col"line, n. Etym: [F. colline, fr. L. collis a hill.]

Defn: A small hill or mount. [Obs.]
And watered park, full of fine collines and ponds. Evelyn.

COLLINEATION
Col*lin`e*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. collineare to direct in a straight
line. See Collimation.]

Defn: The act of aiming at, or directing in a line with, a fixed
object. [R.] Johnson.

COLLING
Coll"ing, n. Etym: [From Coll, v. t.]

Defn: An embrace; dalliance. [Obs.] Halliwell.

COLLINGLY
Coll"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With embraces. [Obs.] Gascoigne.

COLLINGUAL
Col*lin"gual, a.

Defn: Having, or pertaining to, the same language.

COLLIQUABLE
Col*liq"ua*ble, a.

Defn: Liable to melt, grow soft, or become fluid. [Obs.] Harvey.

COLLIQUAMENT
Col*liq"ua*ment, n.

Defn: The first rudiments of an embryo in generation. Dr. H. More.

COLLIQUATE
Col"li*quate, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Colliquated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Colliquating.] Etym: [Pref. col- + L. liquare, liquatum, to melt.]

Defn: To change from solid to fluid; to make or become liquid; to
melt. [Obs.]
The ore of it is colliquated by the violence of the fire. Boyle.
[Ice] will colliquate in water or warm oil. Sir T. Browne.

COLLIQUATION
Col`li*qua"tion, n.

1. A melting together; the act of melting; fusion.
When sand and ashes are well melted together and suffered to cool,
there is generated, by the colliquation, that sort of concretion we
call "glass". Boyle.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A processive wasting or melting away of the solid parts of the
animal system with copious excretions of liquids by one or more
passages. [Obs.]

COLLIQUATIVE
Col*liq"ua*tive, a.

Defn: Causing rapid waste or exhaustion; melting; as, collequative
sweats.

COLLIQUEFACTION
Col*liq`ue*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. colliquefactus melted; col- +
liquefacere; liquere to be liquid + facere to make.]

Defn: A melting together; the reduction of different bodies into one
mass by fusion.
The incorporation of metals by simple colliquefaction. Bacon.

COLLISH
Col"lish, n. (Shoemaking)

Defn: A tool to polish the edge of a sole. Knight.

COLLISION
Col*li"sion, n. Etym: [L. collisio, fr. collidere. See Collide.]

1. The act of striking together; a striking together, as of two hard
bodies; a violent meeting, as of railroad trains; a clashing.

2. A state of opposition; antagonism; interference.
The collision of contrary false principles. Bp. Warburton.
Sensitive to the most trifling collisions. W. Irving.

Syn.
 -- Conflict; clashing; encounter; opposition.

COLLISIVE
Col*li"sive, a.

Defn: Colliding; clashing. [Obs.]

COLLITIGANT
Col*lit"i*gant, a.

Defn: Disputing or wrangling. [Obs.] -- n.

Defn: One who litigates or wrangles. [Obs.]

COLLOCATE
Col"lo*cate, a. Etym: [L. collocatus, p. p. of collocare. See Couch.]

Defn: Set; placed. [Obs.] Bacon.

COLLOCATE
Col"lo*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Collocated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Collocating.]

Defn: To set or place; to set; to station.
To marshal and collocate in order his battalions. E. Hall.

COLLOCATION
Col`lo*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. collocatio.]

Defn: The act of placing; the state of being placed with something
else; disposition in place; arrangement.
The choice and collocation of words. Sir W. Jones.

COLLOCUTION
Col`lo*cu"tion, n. Etym: [L. collocutio, fr. colloqui, -locutum, to
converse; col- + loqui to speak. See Loquacious.]

Defn: A speaking or conversing together; conference; mutual
discourse. Bailey.

COLLOCUTOR
Col"lo*cu`tor, n. Etym: [L. collocutor]

Defn: One of the speakers in a dialogue. Derham.

COLLODION
Col*lo"di*on, n. Etym: [Gr. Colloid.] (Chem.)

Defn: A solution of pyroxylin (soluble gun cotton) in ether
containing a varying proportion of alcohol. It is strongly adhesive,
and is used by surgeons as a containing for wounds; but its chief
application is as a vehicle for the sensitive film in photography.
Collodion process (Photog.), a process in which a film of sensitized
collodion is used in preparing the plate for taking a picture.
 -- Styptic collodion, collodion containing an astringent, as tannin.

COLLODIONIZE
Col*lo"di*on*ize, v. t.

Defn: To prepare or treat with collodion. R. Hunt.

COLLODIOTYPE
Col*lo"di*o*type, n.

Defn: A picture obtained by the collodion process; a melanotype or
ambrotype.

COLLODIUM
Col*lo"di*um, n.

Defn: See Collodion.

COLLOGUE
Col*logue", v. i. Etym: [Cf. L. colloqui and E. dialogue. Cf.
Collocution.]

Defn: To talk or confer secretly and confidentially; to converse,
especially with evil intentions; to plot mischief. [Archaic or
Colloq.]
Pray go in; and, sister, salve the matter, Collogue with her again,
and all shall be well. Greene.
He had been colloguing with my wife. Thackeray.

COLLOID
Col"loid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid. Cf. Collodion.]

Defn: Resembling glue or jelly; characterized by a jellylike
appearance; gelatinous; as, colloid tumors.

COLLOID
Col"loid, n.

1. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A substance (as albumin, gum, gelatin, etc.) which is of a
gelatinous rather than a crystalline nature, and which diffuses
itself through animal membranes or vegetable parchment more slowly
than crystalloids do; -- opposed to crystalloid.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A gelatinous substance found in colloid degeneration and
colloid cancer. Styptic colloid (Med.), a preparation of astringent
and antiseptic substances with some colloid material, as collodion,
for ready use.

COLLOIDAL
Col*loid"al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, colloids.

COLLOIDALITY
Col`loi*dal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being colloidal.

COLLOP
Col"lop, n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin; cf. OF. colp blow, stroke,
piece, F. coup, fr. L. colophus buffet, cuff, Gr. [Written also
colp.]

1. A small slice of meat; a piece of flesh.
God knows thou art a collop of my flesh. Shak.
Sweetbread and collops were with skewers pricked. Dryden.

2. A part or piece of anything; a portion.
Cut two good collops out of the crown land. Fuller.

COLLOPED
Col"loped, a.

Defn: Having ridges or bunches of flesh, like collops.
With that red, gaunt, and colloped neck astrain. R. Browning.

COLLOPHORE
Col"lo*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) A suckerlike organ at the base of the abdomen of insects
belonging to the Collembola.
(b) An adhesive marginal organ of the Lucernariae.

COLLOQUIAL
Col*lo"qui*al, a. Etym: [See Colloqui.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or used in, conversation, esp. common and
familiar conversation; conversational; hence, unstudied; informal;
as, colloquial intercourse; colloquial phrases; a colloquial style.
 -- Col*lo"qui*al*ly, adv.
His [Johnson's] colloquial talents were, indeed, of the highest
order. Macaulay.

COLLOQUIALISM
Col*lo"qui*al*ism, n.

Defn: A colloquial expression, not employed in formal discourse or
writing.

COLLOQUIALIZE
Col*lo"qui*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make colloquial and familiar; as, to colloquialize one's
style of writing.

COLLOQUIST
Col"lo*quist, n.

Defn: A speaker in a colloquy or dialogue. Malone.

COLLOQUY
Col"lo*quy, n.; pl. Colloquies. Etym: [L. colloquium. See
Collocution.]

1. Mutual discourse of two or more persons; conference; conversation.
They went to Worms, to the colloquy there about religion. A. Wood.

2. In some American colleges, a part in exhibitions, assigned for a
certain scholarship rank; a designation of rank in collegiate
scholarship.

COLLOTYPE
Col"lo*type, n. [Gr.  glue + -type.]

Defn: A photomechanical print made directly from a hardened film of
gelatin or other colloid; also, the process of making such prints.
According to one method, the film is sensitized with potassium
dichromate and exposed to light under a reversed negative. After the
dichromate has been washed out, the film is soaked in glycerin and
water. As this treatment causes swelling in those parts of the film
which have been acted on by light, a plate results from which
impressions can be taken with prepared ink. The albertype, phototype,
and heliotype are collotypes.

COLLOW
Col"low, n.

Defn: Soot; smut. See 1st Colly. [Obs.]

COLLUCTANCY
Col*luc"tan*cy, n. Etym: [L. colluctari to struggle with.]

Defn: A struggling to resist; a striving against; resistance;
opposition of nature. [Obs.]

COLLUCTATION
Col`luc*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. colluctatio, fr. colluctari to struggle
with; col- + luctari to struggle.]

Defn: A struggling; a contention. [Obs.]
Colluctation with old hags and hobgoblins. Dr. H. More.

COLLUDE
Col*lude", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Colluded; p. pr. & vb. n. Colluding.]
Etym: [L. colludere, -lusum; col- + ludere to play. See Ludicrous.]

Defn: To have secretly a joint part or share in an action; to play
into each other's hands; to conspire; to act in concert.
If they let things take their course, they will be represented as
colluding with sedition. Burke.

COLLUDER
Col*lud"er, n.

Defn: One who conspires in a fraud.

COLLUM
Col"lum, n.; pl. Colla. Etym: [L., neck.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A neck or cervix. Dunglison.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Collar. Gray.

COLLUSION
Col*lu"sion, n. Etym: [L. collusio: cf. F. collusion. See Collude.]

1. A secret agreement and cooperation for a fraudulent or deceitful
purpose; a playing into each other's hands; deceit; fraud; cunning.
The foxe, maister of collusion. Spenser.
That they [miracles] be done publicly, in the face of the world, that
there may be no room to suspect artifice and collusion. Atterbury.
By the ignorance of the merchants or dishonesty of the weavers, or
the collusion of both, the ware was bad and the price excessive.
Swift.

2. (Law)

Defn: An agreement between two or more persons to defraud a person of
his rights, by the forms of law, or to obtain an object forbidden by
law. Bouvier. Abbott.

Syn.
 -- Collusion, Connivance. A person who is guilty of connivance
intentionally overlooks, and thus sanctions what he was bound to
prevent. A person who is guilty of collusion unites with others
(playing into their hands) for fraudulent purposes.

COLLUSIVE
Col*lu"sive, a.

1. Characterized by collusion; done or planned in collusion.
"Collusive and sophistical arguings." J. Trapp. "Collusive divorces."
Strype.

2. Acting in collusion. "Collusive parties." Burke.
 -- Col*lu"sive*ly, adv.
 -- Col*lu"sive*ness, n.

COLLUSORY
Col*lu"so*ry, a. Etym: [L. collusorius.]

Defn: Collusive.

COLLUTORY
Col"lu*to*ry, n. Etym: [L. colluere, collutum, to wash.] (Med.)

Defn: A medicated wash for the mouth.

COLLUVIES
Col*lu"vi*es, n. [L., a collection of washings, dregs, offscourings,
fr. colluere to wash; col-+ luere to wash.]

1. A collection or gathering, as of pus, or rubbish, or odds and
ends.

2.  A medley; offscourings or rabble.

COLLY
Col"ly, n. Etym: [From Coal.]

Defn: The black grime or soot of coal. [Obs.] Burton.

COLLY
Col"ly, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Collied; p. pr. & vb. n. Collying.]

Defn: To render black or dark, as of with coal smut; to begrime.
[Archaic.]
Thou hast not collied thy face enough. B. Jonson.
Brief as the lighting in the collied night. Shak.

COLLY
Col"ly, n.

Defn: A kind of dog. See Collie.

COLLYBIST
Col"ly*bist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A money changer. [Obs.]
In the face of these guilty collybists. Bp. Hall.

COLLYRIUM
Col*lyr"i*um, n.; pl. E. Collyriums, L. Collyria. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.
(Med.)

Defn: An application to the eye, usually an eyewater.

COLOBOMA
Col`o*bo"ma, n. [NL. fr. Gr. , the part taken away in mutilation, fr.
to mutilate.] (Anat. & Med.)

Defn: A defect or malformation; esp., a fissure of the iris supposed
to be a persistent embryonic cleft.

COLOCOLO
Col`o*co"lo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American wild cat (Felis colocolo), of the size of the
ocelot.

COLOCYNTH
Col"ocynth, n. Etym: [L. colocynthis, Gr. Coloquintida.] (Med.)

Defn: The light spongy pulp of the fruit of the bitter cucumber
(Citrullus, or Cucumis, colocynthis), an Asiatic plant allied to the
watermelon; coloquintida. It comes in white balls, is intensely
bitter, and a powerful cathartic. Called also bitter apple, bitter
cucumber, bitter gourd.

COLOCYNTHIN
Col`o*cyn"thin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. colocynthine.] (Chem.)

Defn: The active medicinal principle of colocynth; a bitter, yellow,
crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside.

COLOGNE
Co*logne", n. Etym: [Originally made in Cologne, the French name of
Köln, a city in Germany.]

Defn: A perfumed liquid, composed of alcohol and certain aromatic
oils, used in the toilet; -- called also cologne water and eau de
cologne.

COLOGNE EARTH
Co*logne" earth`. Etym: [From Cologne the city.] (Min.)

Defn: An earth of a deep brown color, containing more vegetable than
mineral matter; an earthy variety of lignite, or brown coal.

COLOMBIER
Col"om*bier, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A large size of paper for drawings. See under Paper.

COLOMBIN
Co*lom"bin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Calumbin.

COLOMBO
Co*lom"bo, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Calumba.

COLON
Co"lon, n. Etym: [L. colon, colum, limb, member, the largest of the
intestines, fr. Gr. colon. Cf. Colic.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: That part of the large intestines which extends from the cæcum
to the rectum.

Note: [See Illust of Digestion.]

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A point or character, formed thus [:], used to separate parts
of a sentence that are complete in themselves and nearly independent,
often taking the place of a conjunction.

COLONEL
Colo"nel, n. Etym: [F. colonel, It. colonello, prop., the chief or
commander of a column, fr. colonna column, L. columna. See Column.]
(Mil.)

Defn: The chief officer of a regiment; an officer ranking next above
a lieutenant colonel and next below a brigadier general.

COLONELCY
Colo"nel*cy, n. (Mil.)

Defn: The office, rank, or commission of a colonel.

COLONELSHIP
Colo"nel*ship, n.

Defn: Colonelcy. Swift.

COLONER
Col"o*ner, n.

Defn: A colonist. [Obs.] Holland

COLONIAL
Co*lo"ni*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. colonial.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a colony; as, colonial rights, traffic,
wars.

COLONIALISM
Co*lo"ni*al*ism, n.

1. The state or quality of, or the relationship involved in, being
colonial.

The last tie of colonialism which bound us to the mother country is
broken.
Brander Matthews.

2.  A custom, idea, feature of government, or the like,
characteristic of a colony.

3.  The colonial system or policy in political government or
extension of territory.

COLONICAL
Co*lon"i*cal, a. Etym: [L. colonus husbandman.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to husbandmen. [Obs.]

COLONIST
Col"o*nist, n.

Defn: A member or inhabitant of a colony.

COLONITIS
Col`o*ni"tis, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Colitis.

COLONIZATION
Col`o*ni*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. colonisation.]

Defn: Tha act of colonizing, or the state of being colonized; the
formation of a colony or colonies.
The wide continent of America invited colonization. Bancroft.

COLONIZATIONIST
Col`o*ni*za"tion*ist, n.

Defn: A friend to colonization, esp. (U. S. Hist) to the colonization
of Africa by emigrants from the colored population of the United
States.

COLONIZE
Col"o*nize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Colonized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Colonizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. coloniser.]

Defn: To plant or establish a colony or colonies in; to people with
colonists; to migrate to and settle in. Bacon.
They that would thus colonize the stars with inhabitants. Howell.

COLONIZE
Col"o*nize, v. i.

Defn: To remove to, and settle in, a distant country; to make a
colony. C. Buchanan.

COLONIZER
Col"o*ni`zer, n.

Defn: One who promotes or establishes a colony; a colonist. Bancroft.

COLONNADE
Col`on*nade", n. Etym: [F. colonnade, It. colonnata, fr. colonna
column. See Colonel.] (Arch.)

Defn: A series or range of columns placed at regular intervals with
all the adjuncts, as entablature, stylobate, roof, etc.

Note: When in front of a building, it is called a portico; when
surrounding a building or an open court or square, a peristyle.

COLONY
Col"o*ny, n.; pl. Colonies. Etym: [L. colonia, fr. colonus farmer,
fr. colere to cultivate, dwell: cf. F. colonie. Cf. Culture.]

1. A company of people transplanted from their mother country to a
remote province or country, and remaining subject to the jurisdiction
of the parent state; as, the British colonies in America.
The first settlers of New England were the best of Englishmen, well
educated, devout Christians, and zealous lovers of liberty. There was
never a colony formed of better materials. Ames.

2. The district or country colonized; a settlement.

3. A company of persons from the same country sojourning in a foreign
city or land; as, the American colony in Paris.

4. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: A number of animals or plants living or growing together,
beyond their usual range.

COLOPHANY
Col"o*pha`ny ( or ), n.

Defn: See Colophony.

COLOPHENE
Co"lo*phene ( or ), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, oily liquid, formerly obtained by distillation of
colophony. It is regarded as a polymeric form of terebenthene. Called
also diterebene.

COLOPHON
Col"o*phon, n. Etym: [L. colophon finishing stroke, Gr. culmen top,
collis hill. Cf. Holm.]

Defn: An inscription, monogram, or cipher, containing the place and
date of publication, printer's name, etc., formerly placed on the
last page of a book.
The colophon, or final description, fell into disuse, and . . . the
title page had become the principal direct means of identifying the
book. De Morgan.
The book was uninjured from title page to colophon. Sir W. Scott.

COLOPHONITE
Col"o*pho*nite ( or ), n. Etym: [Cf. F. colophonite. So named from
its resemblance to the color of colophony.] (Min.)

Defn: A coarsely granular variety of garnet.

COLOPHONY
Col"o*pho`ny ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Rosin.

COLOQUINTIDA
Col`o*quin"ti*da, n.

Defn: See Colocynth. Shak.

COLOR
Col"or, n. [Written also colour.] Etym: [OF. color, colur, colour, F.
couleur, L. color; prob. akin to celare to conceal (the color taken
as that which covers). See Helmet.]

1. A property depending on the relations of light to the eye, by
which individual and specific differences in the hues and tints of
objects are apprehended in vision; as, gay colors; sad colors, etc.

Note: The sensation of color depends upon a peculiar function of the
retina or optic nerve, in consequence of which rays of light produce
different effects according to the length of their waves or
undulations, waves of a certain length producing the sensation of
red, shorter waves green, and those still shorter blue, etc. White,
or ordinary, light consists of waves of various lengths so blended as
to produce no effect of color, and the color of objects depends upon
their power to absorb or reflect a greater or less proportion of the
rays which fall upon them.

2. Any hue distinguished from white or black.

3. The hue or color characteristic of good health and spirits; ruddy
complexion.
Give color to my pale cheek. Shak.

4. That which is used to give color; a paint; a pigment; as, oil
colors or water colors.

5. That which covers or hides the real character of anything;
semblance; excuse; disguise; appearance.
They had let down the boat into the sea, under color as though they
would have cast anchors out of the foreship. Acts xxvii. 30.
That he should die is worthy policy; But yet we want a color for his
death. Shak.

6. Shade or variety of character; kind; species.
Boys and women are for the most part cattle of this color. Shak.

7. A distinguishing badge, as a flag or similar symbol (usually in
the plural); as, the colors or color of a ship or regiment; the
colors of a race horse (that is, of the cap and jacket worn by the
jockey).
In the United States each regiment of infantry and artillery has two
colors, one national and one regimental. Farrow.

8. (Law)

Defn: An apparent right; as where the defendant in trespass gave to
the plaintiff an appearance of title, by stating his title specially,
thus removing the cause from the jury to the court. Blackstone.

Note: Color is express when it is asverred in the pleading, and
implied when it is implied in the pleading. Body color. See under
Body.
 -- Color blindness, total or partial inability to distinguish or
recognize colors. See Daltonism.
 -- Complementary color, one of two colors so related to each other
that when blended together they produce white light; -- so called
because each color makes up to the other what it lacks to make it
white. Artificial or pigment colors, when mixed, produce effects
differing from those of the primary colors, in consequence of partial
absorption.
 -- Of color (as persons, races, etc.), not of the white race; --
commonly meaning, esp. in the United States, of negro blood, pure or
mixed.
 -- Primary colors, those developed from the solar beam by the prism,
viz., red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet, which are
reduced by some authors to three, -- red, green, and violet-blue.
These three are sometimes called fundamental colors.
 -- Subjective or Accidental color, a false or spurious color seen in
some instances, owing to the persistence of the luminous impression
upon the retina, and a gradual change of its character, as where a
wheel perfectly white, and with a circumference regulary subdiveded,
is made to revolve rapidly over a dark object, the teeth, of the
wheel appear to the eye of different shades of color varying with the
rapidity of rotation. See Accidental colors, under Accidental.

COLOR
Col"or, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Colored; p. pr. & vb. n. Coloring.] Etym:
[F. colorer.]

1. To change or alter the bue or tint of, by dyeing, staining,
painting, etc.; to dye; to tinge; to aint; to stain.
The rays, to speak properly, are not colored; in them there is
nothing else than a certain power and disposition to stir up a
sensation of this or that color. Sir I. Newton.

2. To change or alter, as if by dyeing or painting; to give a false
appearance to; usually, to give a specious appearance to; to cause to
appear attractive; to make plausible; to palliate or excuse; as, the
facts were colored by his prejudices.
He colors the falsehood of Æneas by an express command from Jupiter
to forsake the queen. Dryden.

3. To hide. [Obs.]
That by his fellowship he color might Both his estate and love from
skill of any wight. Spenser.

COLOR
Col"or, v. i.

Defn: To acquire color; to turn red, especially in the face; to
blush.

COLORABLE
Col"or*a*ble, a.

Defn: Specious; plausible; having an appearance of right or justice.
"Colorable pretense for infidility." Bp. Stillingfleet.
 -- Col"or*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Col"or*a*bly, adv.
Colorable and subtle crimes, that seldom are taken within the walk of
human justice. Hooker.

COLORADO BEETLE
Col`o*ra"do bee"tle. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A yellowish beetle (Doryphora decemlineata), with ten
longitudinal, black, dorsal stripes. It has migrated eastwards from
its original habitat in Colorado, and is very destructive to the
potato plant; -- called also potato beetle and potato bug. See Potato
beetle.

COLORADO GROUP
Col`o*ra"do group. (Geol.)

Defn: A subdivision of the cretaceous formation of western North
America, especially developed in Colorado and the upper Missouri
region.

COLORADOITE
Col`o*ra"do*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Mercury telluride, an iron-black metallic mineral, found in
Colorado.

COLORATE
Col"or*ate, a. Etym: [L. coloratus, p. p. of colorare to color.]

Defn: Colored. [Obs.] Ray.

COLORATION
Col`or*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act or art of coloring; the state of being colored. Bacon.
The females . . . resemble each other in their general type of
coloration. Darwin.

COLORATURE
Col"or*a*ture, n. Etym: [Cf. G. coloratur, fr. LL. coloratura.]
(Mus.)

Defn: Vocal music colored, as it were, by florid ornaments, runs, or
rapid passages.

COLOR-BLIND
Col"or-blind, a.

Defn: Affected with color blindness. See Color blindness, under
Color, n.

COLORED
Col"ored, a.

1. Having color; tinged; dyed; painted; stained.
The lime rod, colored as the glede. Chaucer.
The colored rainbow arched wide. Spenser.

2. Specious; plausible; aborned so as to appear well; as, a highly
colored description. Sir G. C. Lewis.
His colored crime with craft to cloke. Spenser.

3. Of some other color than black or white.

4. (Ethnol.)

Defn: Of some other color than white; specifically applied to negroes
or persons having negro blood; as, a colored man; the colored people.

5. (Bot.)

Defn: Of some other color than green.
Colored, meaning, as applied to foliage, of some other color than
green. Gray.

Note: In botany, green is not regarded as a color, but white is.
Wood.

COLORIFIC
Col`or*if"ic, a. Etym: [L. color color + facere to make: cf. F.
colorifique.]

Defn: Capable of communicating color or tint to other bodies.

COLORIMETER
Col`or*im"e*ter, n. Etym: [Color + -meter: cf. F. colorimètre.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the depth of the color of anything,
especially of a liquid, by comparison with a standard liquid.

COLORIMETRY
Col`or*im"e*try, n. [See Colorimeter.]

1.

Defn: The quantitative determination of the depth of color of a
substance.

2.  A method of quantitative chemical analysis based upon the
comparison of the depth of color of a solution with that of a
standard liquid.

COLORING
Col"or*ing, n.

1. The act of applying color to; also, that which produces color.

2. Change of appearance as by addition of color; appearance; show;
disguise; misrepresentation.
Tell the whole story without coloring or gloss. Compton Reade.
Dead coloring. See under Dead.

COLORIST
Col"or*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. coloriste.]

Defn: One who colors; an artist who excels in the use of colors; one
to whom coloring is of prime importance.
Titian, Paul Veronese, Van Dyck, and the rest of the good colorists.
Dryden.

COLORLESS
Col"or*less, a.

1. Without color; not distinguished by any hue; transparent; as,
colorless water.

2. Free from any manifestation of partial or peculiar sentiment or
feeling; not disclosing likes, dislikes, prejudice, etc.; as,
colorless music; a colorless style; definitions should be colorless.

COLORMAN
Col"or*man, n.; pl. Colormen.

Defn: A vender of paints, etc. Simmonds.

COLOR SERGEANT
Col"or ser"geant.

Defn: See under Sergeant.

COLOSSAL
Co*los"sal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cossal, L. colosseus. See Colossus.]

1. Of enormous size; gigantic; huge; as, a colossal statue. "A
colossal stride." Motley.

2. (Sculpture & Painting)

Defn: Of a size larger than heroic. See Heroic.

COLOSSEAN
Col`os*se"an, a.

Defn: Colossal. [R.]

COLOSSEUM
Col`os*se"um, n. Etym: [Neut., fr. L. coloseus gigantic. See
Coliseum.]

Defn: The amphitheater of Vespasian in Rome. [Also written Coliseum.]

COLOSSUS
Co*los"sus, n.; pl. L. Colossi, E. Colossuses. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A statue of gigantic size. The name was especially applied to
certain famous statues in antiquity, as the Colossus of Nero in Rome,
the Colossus of Apollo at Rhodes.
He doth bestride the narrow world Like a colossus. Shak.

Note: There is no authority for the statement that the legs of the
Colossus at Rhodes extended over the mouth of the harbor. Dr. Wm.
Smith.

2. Any man or beast of gigantic size.

COLOSTRUM
Co*los"trum, n. Etym: [L., biestings.] (Med.)
(a) The first milk secreted after delivery; biestings.
(b) A mixture of turpentine and the yolk of an egg, formerly used as
an emulsion.

COLOTOMY
Co*lot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: An operation for opening the colon

COLOUR
Col"our, n.

Defn: See Color.

COLP
Colp, n.

Defn: See Collop.

COLPORTAGE
Col"por`tage, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The distribution of religious books, tracts, etc., by
colporteurs.

COLPORTER
Col"por`ter, n.

Defn: Same as Colporteur.

COLPORTEUR
Col"por`teur, n. Etym: [F. colporteur one who carries on his neck,
fr. colporter to carry on one's neck; col (L. collum) neck + porter
(L. portare) to carry.]

Defn: A hawker; specifically, one who travels about selling and
distributing religious tracts and books.

COLSTAFF
Col"staff`, n. Etym: [F. col neck + E. staff. Cf. Coll.]

Defn: A staff by means of which a burden is borne by two persons on
their shoulders.

COLT
Colt (; 110), n. Etym: [OE. colt a young horse, ass, or camel, AS.
colt; cf. dial. Sw. kullt a boy, lad.]

1. The young of the equine genus or horse kind of animals; --
sometimes distinctively applied to the male, filly being the female.
Cf. Foal.

Note: In sporting circles it is usual to reckon the age of colts from
some arbitrary date, as from January 1, or May 1, next preceding the
birth of the animal.

2. A young, foolish fellow. Shak.

3. A short knotted rope formerly used as an instrument of punishment
in the navy. Ham. Nav. Encyc. Colt's tooth, an imperfect or
superfluous tooth in young horses.
 -- To cast one's colt's tooth, to cease from youthful wantonness.
"Your colt's tooth is not cast yet." Shak.
 -- To have a colt's tooth, to be wanton. Chaucer.

COLT
Colt (; 110), v. i.

Defn: To frisk or frolic like a colt; to act licentiously or
wantonly. [Obs.]
They shook off their bridles and began to colt. Spenser.

COLT
Colt, v. t.

1. To horse; to get with young. Shak.

2. To befool. [Obs.] Shak.

COLTER
Col"ter, n. Etym: [AS. culter, fr. L. culter plowshare, knife. Cf.
Cutlass.]

Defn: A knife or cutter, attached to the beam of a plow to cut the
sward, in advance of the plowshare and moldboard. [Written also
coulter.]

COLTISH
Colt"ish, a.

Defn: Like a colt; wanton; frisky.
He was all coltish, full of ragery. Chaucer.
-- Colt"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Colt"ish*ness, n.

COLT PISTOL
Colt pistol. (Firearms)

Defn: A self-loading or semi-automatic pistol with removable magazine
in the handle holding seven cartridges. The recoil extracts and
ejects the empty cartridge case, and reloads ready for another shot.
Called also Browning, and Colt-Browning, pistol.

COLT REVOLVER
Colt revolver. (Firearms)

Defn: A revolver made according to a system using a patented
revolving cylinder, holding six cartridges, patented by Samuel Colt,
an American inventor, in 1835. With various modifications, it has for
many years been the standard for the United States army.

COLTSFOOT
Colts"foot`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial herb (Tussilago Farfara), whose leaves and
rootstock are sometimes employed in medicine. Butterbur coltsfoot
(Bot.), a European plant (Petasites vulgaris).

COLT'S TOOTH
Colt's" tooth`.

Defn: See under Colt.

COLUBER
Col"u*ber, n. Etym: [L., a serpent.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of harmless serpents.

Note: Linnæus placed in this genus all serpents, whether venomous or
not, whose scales beneath the tail are arranged in pairs; but by
modern writers it is greatly restricted.

COLUBRINE
Col"u*brine, a. Etym: [L. colubrinus.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: like or related to snakes of the genus Coluber.

2. Like a snake; cunning; crafty. Johnson.

COLUGO
Co*lu"go, n. Etym: [Prob. an aboriginal name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar East Indian mammal (Galleopithecus volans), having
along the sides, connecting the fore and hind limbs, a parachutelike
membrane, by means of which it is able to make long leaps, like the
flying squirrel; -- called also flying lemur.

COLUMBA
Co*lum"ba, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Calumba.

COLUMBAE
Co*lum"bæ, n. pl.; Etym: [L. columba pigeon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of birds, including the pigeons.

COLUMBARIUM
Col`um*ba"ri*um, n.; pl. L. Columbaria Etym: [L. See Columbary.]
(Rom. Antiq.)
(a) A dovecote or pigeon house.
(b) A sepulchral chamber with niches for holding cinerary urns.

COLUMBARY
Col"um*ba*ry, n.; pl. Columbaries. Etym: [L. columbarium, fr. columba
a dove.]

Defn: A dovecote; a pigeon house. Sir T. Browne.

COLUMBATE
Co*lum"bate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. colombate. See Columbium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of columbic acid; a niobate. See Columbium.

COLUMBATZ FLY
Co*lum"batz fly`. Etym: [From Kolumbatz, a mountain in Germany.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: See Buffalo fly, under Buffalo.

COLUMBELLA
Col`um*bel"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. columba a dove. So called
from a fancied resemblance in color and form, of some species.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of univale shells, abundant in tropical seas. Some
species, as Columbella mercatoria, were formerly used as shell money.

COLUMBIA
Co*lum"bi*a, n.

Defn: America; the United States; -- a poetical appellation given in
honor of Columbus, the discoverer. Dr. T. Dwight.

COLUMBIAD
Co*lum"bi*ad, n. Etym: [From Columbia the United States.] (Mil.)

Defn: A form of seacoast cannon; a long, chambered gun designed for
throwing shot or shells with heavy charges of powder, at high angles
of elevation.

Note: Since the War of 1812 the Columbiad has been much modified form
now used in seacoast defense is often called the Rodman gun.

COLUMBIAN
Co*lum"bi*an, a. Etym: [From Columbia.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the United States, or to America.

COLUMBIC
Co*lum"bic, a. Etym: [From Columbium.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, columbium or niobium; niobic.
Columbic acid (Chem.), a weak acid derived from columbic or niobic
oxide, Nb2O5; -- called also niobic acid.

COLUMBIC
Co*lum"bic, a. Etym: [From Columbo.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the columbo root. Columbic acid
(Chem.), an organic acid extracted from the columbo root as a bitter,
yellow, amorphous substance.

COLUMBIER
Co*lum"bi*er, n.

Defn: See Colombier.

COLUMBIFEROUS
Col"um*bif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Columbium + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing or containing columbium.

COLUMBIN
Co*lum"bin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, bitter substance. See Calumbin.

COLUMBINE
Col"um*bine, a. Etym: [L. columbinus, fr. columba dove.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a dove; dovelike; dove-colored. "Columbine
innocency." Bacon.

COLUMBINE
Col"um*bine, n. Etym: [LL. columbina, L. columbinus dovelike, fr.
columba dove: cf. F. colombine. Perh. so called from the beaklike
spurs of its flowers.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of several species of the genus Aquilegia; as, A.
vulgaris, or the common garden columbine; A. Canadensis, the wild red
columbine of North America.

2. The mistress or sweetheart of Harlequin in pantomimes. Brewer.

COLUMBITE
Co*lum"bite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. colombite. See Columbium.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a black color, submetallic luster, and high
specific specific gravity. It is a niobate (or columbate) of iron and
manganese, containing tantalate of iron; -- first found in New
England.

COLUMBIUM
Co*lum"bi*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Columbia America.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare element of the vanadium group, first found in a variety
of the mineral columbite occurring in Connecticut, probably at
Haddam. Atomic weight 94.2. Symbol Cb or Nb. Now more commonly called
niobium.

COLUMBO
Co*lum"bo, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Calumba.

COLUMBUS DAY
Co*lum"bus Day.

Defn: The 12th day of October, on which day in 1492 Christopher
Columbus discovered America, landing on one of the Bahama Islands
(probably the one now commonly called Watling Island), and naming it
"San Salvador"; -- called also Discovery Day. This day is made a
legal holiday in many States of The United States.

COLUMELLA
Col`u*mel"la, n. Etym: [L., dim. of columen column. See Column.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) An axis to which a carpel of a compound pistil may be attached,
as in the case of the geranium; or which is left when a pod opens.
(b) A columnlike axis in the capsule of mosses.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A term applied to various columnlike parts; as, the columnella,
or epipterygoid bone, in the skull of many lizards; the columella of
the ear, the bony or cartilaginous rod connecting the tympanic
membrane with the internal ear.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) The upright pillar in the axis of most univalve shells.
(b) The central pillar or axis of the calicles of certain corals.

COLUMELLIFORM
Col`u*mel"li*form, a. Etym: [Columella + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like a little column, or columella.

COLUMN
Col"umn, n. Etym: [L. columna, fr. columen, culmen, fr. cellere (used
only in comp.), akin to E. excel, and prob. to holm. See Holm, and
cf. Colonel.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A kind of pillar; a cylindrical or polygonal support for a
roof, ceiling, statue, etc., somewhat ornamented, and usually
composed of base, shaft, and capital. See Order.

2. Anything resembling, in form or position, a column an
architecture; an upright body or mass; a shaft or obelisk; as, a
column of air, of water, of mercury, etc. ; the Column Vendôme; the
spinal column.

3. (Mil.)
(a) A body of troops formed in ranks, one behind the other; --
contradistinguished from line. Compare Ploy, and Deploy.
(b) A small army.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A number of ships so arranged as to follow one another in
single or double file or in squadrons; -- in distinction from "line",
where they are side by side.

5. (Print.)

Defn: A perpendicular set of lines, not extending across the page,
and separated from other matter by a rule or blank space; as, a
column in a newspaper.

6. (Arith.)

Defn: A perpendicular line of figures.

7. (Bot.)

Defn: The body formed by the union of the stamens in the Mallow
family, or of the stamens and pistil in the orchids. Attached column.
See under Attach, v. t.
 -- Clustered column. See under Cluster, v. t.
 -- Column rule, a thin strip of brass separating columns of type in
the form, and making a line between them in printing.

COLUMNAR
Co*lum"*nar, a. Etym: [L. columnaris, fr. columna.]

Defn: Formed in columns; having the form of a column or columns; like
the shaft of a column. Columnar epithelium (Anat.), epithelium in
which the cells are priismatic in form, and set upright on the
surface they cover.
 -- Columnar structure (Geol.), a structure consisting of more or
less regular columns, usually six-sided, but sometimes with eight or
more sides. The columns are often fractured transversely, with a cup
joint, showing a concave surface above. This structure is
characteristic of certain igneous rocks, as basalt, and is due to
contraction in cooling.

COLUMNARITY
Col`um*nar"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being columnar.

COLUMNATED
Co*lum"na*ted, a.

Defn: Having columns; as, columnated temples.

COLUMNED
Col"umned, a.

Defn: Having columns.
Troas and Ilion's columned citadel. Tennyson.

COLUMNIATION
Co*lum`ni*a"tion, n.

Defn: The employment or arrangement of columns in a structure. Gwilt.

COLURE
Co*lure", n.; pl. Colures. Etym: [F. colure, L. coluri, pl., fr. Gr.
(Astron. & Geog.)

Defn: One of two great circles intersecting at right angles in the
poles of the equator. One of them passes through the equinoctial
points, and hence is denominated the equinoctial colure; the other
intersects the equator at the distance of 90º from the former, and is
called the solstitial colure.
Thrice the equinoctial line He circled; four times crossed the car of
night From pole to pole, traversing each colure. Milton.

COLY
Co"ly, n.; pl. Colies. Etym: [NL. colius, prob. fr. Gr.

Defn: Any bird of the genus Colius and allied genera. They inhabit
Africa.

COLZA
Col"za, n. Etym: [F., fr. D. koolzaad, prob., cabbage seed; kool
(akin to E. cole) + zaad akin to E. seed.] (Bot.)

Defn: A variety of cabbage (Brassica oleracea), cultivated for its
seeds, which yield an oil valued for illuminating and lubricating
purposes; summer rape.

COM-
Com-.

Defn: A prefix from the Latin preposition cum, signifying with,
together, in conjunction, very, etc. It is used in the form com-
before b, m, p, and sometimes f, and by assimilation becomes col-
before l, cor- before r, and con- before any consonant except b, h,
l, m, p, r, and w. Before a vowel com- becomes co-; also before h, w,
and sometimes before other consonants.

COMA
Co"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Cemetery.]

Defn: A state of profound insensibility from which it is difficult or
impossible to rouse a person. See Carus.

COMA
Co"ma, n. Etym: [L., hair, fr. Gr.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: The envelope of a comet; a nebulous covering, which surrounds
the nucleus or body of a comet.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A tuft or bunch, -- as the assemblage of branches forming the
head of a tree; or a cluster of brachts when empty and terminating
the inflorescence of a plant; or a tuft of long hairs on certain
seeds. Coma Berenices ( Etym: [L.] (Astron.), a small constellation
north of Virgo; -- called also Berenice's Hair.

COMANCHES
Co*man"ches ( or ), n. pl.; sing. Comanche ( or ) . (Ethnol.)

Defn: A warlike, savage, and nomadic tribe of the Shoshone family of
Indians, inhabiting Mexico and the adjacent parts of the United
States; -- called also Paducahs. They are noted for plundering and
cruelty.

COMART
Co"mart`, n.

Defn: A covenant. [Obs.] Shak.

COMATE
Co"mate, a. Etym: [L. comatus, fr. comare to clothe with hair, fr.
coma hair.]

Defn: Encompassed with a coma, or bushy appearance, like hair; hairy.

CO-MATE
Co"-mate`, n. Etym: [Pref. co- + mate.]

Defn: A companion. Shak.

COMATOSE
Co"ma*tose` ( or ; 277), a. Etym: [From Coma lethargy.]

Defn: Relating to, or resembling, coma; drowsy; lethargic; as,
comatose sleep; comatose fever.

COMATOUS
Co"ma*tous, a.

Defn: Comatose.

COMATULA
Co*mat"u*la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. comatulus having hair neatly
curled, dim. fr. coma hair.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A crinoid of the genus Antedon and related genera. When young
they are fixed by a stem. When adult they become detached and cling
to seaweeds, etc., by their dorsal cirri; -- called also feather
stars.

COMATULID
Co*mat"u*lid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any crinoid of the genus Antedon or allied genera.

COMB
Comb (; 110), n. Etym: [AS.. camb; akin to Sw., Dan., & D. kam, Icel.
kambr, G. kamm, Gr. jambha tooth.]

1. An instrument with teeth, for straightening, cleansing, and
adjusting the hair, or for keeping it in place.

2. An instrument for currying hairy animals, or cleansing and
smoothing their coats; a currycomb.

3. (Manuf. & Mech.)
(a) A toothed instrument used for separating and cleansing wool,
flax, hair, etc.
(b) The serrated vibratory doffing knife of a carding machine.
(c) A former, commonly cone-shaped, used in hat manufacturing for
hardening the soft fiber into a bat.
(d) A tool with teeth, used for chasing screws on work in a lathe; a
chaser.
(e) The notched scale of a wire micrometer.
(f) The collector of an electrical machine, usually resembling a
comb.

4. (Zoöl.)
(a) The naked fleshy crest or caruncle on the upper part of the bill
or hood of a cock or other bird. It is usually red.
(b) One of a pair of peculiar organs on the base of the abdomen of
scorpions.

5. The curling crest of a wave.

6. The waxen framework forming the walls of the cells in which bees
store their honey, eggs, etc.; honeycomb. "A comb of honey." Wyclif.
When the bee doth leave her comb. Shak.

7. The thumbpiece of the hammer of a gunlock, by which it may be
cocked.

COMB
Comb, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Combed; p. pr. & vb. n. Combing.]

Defn: To disentangle, cleanse, or adjust, with a comb; to lay smooth
and straight with, or as with, a comb; as, to comb hair or wool. See
under Combing.
Comb down his hair; look, look! it stands upright. Shak.

COMB
Comb, v. i. Etym: [See Comb, n., 5.] (Naut.)

Defn: To roll over, as the top or crest of a wave; to break with a
white foam, as waves.

COMB; COMBE
Comb, Combe ( or ), n. Etym: [AS. comb, prob. of Celtic origin; cf.
W. cwm a dale, valley.]

Defn: That unwatered portion of a valley which forms its continuation
beyond and above the most elevated spring that issues into it.
[Written also coombe.] Buckland.
A gradual rise the shelving combe Displayed. Southey.

COMB
Comb, n.

Defn: A dry measure. See Coomb.

COMBAT
Com"bat ( or ; 277), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Combated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Combating.] Etym: [F. combattre; pref. com- + battre to beat, fr. L.
battuere to strike. See Batter.]

Defn: To struggle or contend, as with an opposing force; to fight.
To combat with a blind man I disdain. Milton.
After the fall of the republic, the Romans combated only for the
choice of masters. Gibbon.

COMBAT
Com"bat, v. t.

Defn: To fight with; to oppose by force, argument, etc.; to contend
against; to resist.
When he the ambitious Norway combated. Shak.
And combated in silence all these reasons. Milton.
Minds combat minds, repelling and repelled. Goldsmith.

Syn.
 -- To fight against; resist; oppose; withstand; oppugn; antagonize;
repel; resent.

COMBAT
Com"bat, n. Etym: [Cf. F. combat.]

1. A fight; a contest of violence; a struggle for supremacy.
My courage try by combat, if thou dar'st. Shak.
The noble combat that 'twixt joy and sorrow was fought in Paulina.
Shak.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: An engagement of no great magnitude; or one in which the
parties engaged are not armies. Single combat, one in which a single
combatant meets a single opponent, as in the case of David and
Goliath; also a duel.

Syn.
 -- A battle; engagement; conflict; contest; contention; struggle;
fight, strife. See Battle, Contest.

COMBATABLE
Com"bat*a*ble ( or ), a. Etym: [Cf. F. combattable.]

Defn: Such as can be, or is liable to be, combated; as, combatable
foes, evils, or arguments.

COMBATANT
Com"bat*ant, a. Etym: [F. combattant, p. pr.]

Defn: Contending; disposed to contend. B. Jonson.

COMBATANT
Com"bat*ant, n. Etym: [F. combattant.]

Defn: One who engages in combat. "The mighty combatants." Milton.
A controversy which long survived the original combatants. Macaulay

COMBATER
Com"bat*er, n.

Defn: One who combats. Sherwood.

COMBATIVE
Com"bat*ive or

Defn: (

COMBATIVENESS
Com"bat*ive*ness, n.

1. The quality of being combative; propensity to contend or to
quarrel.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: A cranial development supposed to indicate a combative
disposition.

COMBATTANT
Com`bat`tant", a. Etym: [F.] (Her.)

Defn: In the position of fighting; -- said of two lions set face to
face, each rampant.

COMBBROACH
Comb"broach`, n.

Defn: A tooth of a wool comb. [Written also combrouch.]

COMBE
Combe ( or ), n.

Defn: See Comb.

COMBER
Comb"er, n.

1. One who combs; one whose occupation it is to comb wool, flax, etc.
Also, a machine for combing wool, flax, etc.

2. A long, curling wave.

COMBER
Com"ber, v. t.

Defn: To cumber. [Obs.] Spenser.

COMBER
Com"ber, n.

Defn: Encumbrance. [Obs.]

COMBER
Com"ber, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cabrilla. Also, a name applied to a species of wrasse.
[Prov. Eng.]

COMBINABLE
Com*bin"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. combinable.]

Defn: Capable of combinding; consistent with. [R.] M. Arnold.
 -- Com*bin"a*ble*ness, n.

COMBINATE
Com"bi*nate, a. Etym: [LL. combinatus, p. p.]

Defn: United; joined; betrothed. [R.]

COMBINATION
Com`bi*na"tion, n. Etym: [LL. combinatio. See Combine.]

1. The act or process of combining or uniting persons and things.
Making new compounds by new combinations. Boyle.
A solemn combination shall be made Of our dear souls. Shak.

2. The result of combining or uniting; union of persons or things;
esp. a union or alliance of persons or states to effect some purpose;
-- usually in a bad sense.
A combination of the most powerful men in Rome who had conspired my
ruin. Melmoth.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process of uniting by chemical affinity, by which
substances unite with each other in definite proportions by weight to
form distinct compounds.

4. pl. (Math.)

Defn: The different arrangements of a number of objects, as letters,
into groups.

Note: In combinations no regard is paid to the order in which the
objects are arranged in each group, while in variations and
permutations this order is respected. Brande & C. Combination car, a
railroad car containing two or more compartments used for different
purposes. [U. S.] -- Combination lock, a lock in which the mechanism
is controlled by means of a movable dial (sometimes by several dials
or rings) inscribed with letters or other characters. The bolt of the
lock can not be operated until after the dial has been so turned as
to combine the characters in a certain order or succession.
 -- Combination room, in the University of Cambridge, Eng., a room
into which the fellows withdraw after dinner, for wine, dessert, and
conversation.
 -- Combination by volume (Chem.), the act, process, or ratio by
which gaseous elements and compounds unite in definite proportions by
volume to form distinct compounds.
 -- Combination by weight (Chem.), the act, process, or ratio, in
which substances unite in proportions by weight, relatively fixed and
exact, to form distinct compounds. See Law of definite proportions,
under Definite.

Syn.
 -- Cabal; alliance; association; league; union; confederacy;
coalition; conspiracy. See Cabal.

COMBINE
Com*bine", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Combined; p. pr. & vb. n. Combining.]
Etym: [LL. combinare, combinatum; L. com- + binus, pl. bini, two and
two, double: cf. F. combiner. See Binary.]

1. To unite or join; to link closely together; to bring into
harmonious union; to cause or unite so as to form a homogeneous, as
by chemical union.
So fitly them in pairs thou hast combined. Milton.
Friendship is the which really combines mankind. Dr. H. More.
And all combined, save what thou must combine By holy marriage. Shak.
Earthly sounds, though sweet and well combined. Cowper.

2. To bind; to hold by a moral tie. [Obs.]
I am combined by a sacred vow. Shak.

COMBINE
Com*bine", v. i.

1. To form a union; to agree; to coalesce; to confederate.
You with your foes combine, And seem your own destruction to design
Dryden.
So sweet did harp and voice combine. Sir W. Scott.

2. To unite by affinity or natural attraction; as, two substances,
which will not combine of themselves, may be made to combine by the
intervention of a third.

3. (Card Playing)

Defn: In the game of casino, to play a card which will take two or
more cards whose aggregate number of pips equals those of the card
played. Combining weight (Chem.), that proportional weight, usually
referred to hydrogen as a standard, and for each element fixed and
exact, by which an element unites with another to form a distinct
compound. The combining weights either are identical with, or are
multiples or multiples of, the atomic weight. See Atomic weight,
under Atomic, a.

COMBINED
Com*bined", a.

Defn: United closely; confederated; chemically united.

COMBINEDLY
Com*bin"ed*ly, adv. In combination or coöperation

Defn: ; jointly.

COMBINER
Com*bin"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, combines.

COMBING
Comb"ing, n.

1. The act or process of using a comb or a number of combs; as, the
combing of one's hair; the combing of wool.

Note: The process of combing is used in straightening wool of long
staple; short wool is carded.

2. pl.
(a) That which is caught or collected with a comb, as loose, tangled
hair.
(b) Hair arranged to be worn on the head.
The baldness, thinness, and . . . deformity of their hair is supplied
by borders and combings. Jer. Taylor.
(c) (Naut.)

Defn: See Coamings. Combing machine (Textile Manuf.), a machine for
combing wool, flax, cotton, etc., and separating the longer and more
valuable fiber from the shorter. See also Carding machine, under
Carding.

COMBLESS
Comb"less, a.

Defn: Without a comb or crest; as, a combless ceck.

COMBOLOIO
Com`bo*lo"io, n.

Defn: A Mohammedan rosary, consisting of ninety-nine beads. Byron.

COMB-SHAPED
Comb"-shaped`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pectinate.

COMBUST
Com*bust", a. Etym: [L. combustus, p. p. of comburere to burn up;
com- + burere (only in comp.), of uncertian origin; cf. bustum
fineral pyre, prurire to itch, pruna a live coal, Gr. plush to burn.]

1. Burnt; consumed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: So near the sun as to be obscured or eclipsed by his light, as
the moon or planets when not more than eight degrees and a half from
the sun. [Obs.]
Planets that are oft combust. Milton.

COMBUSTIBILITY
Com*bus`ti*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being combustible.

COMBUSTIBLE
Com*bus"ti*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. combustble.]

1. Capable of taking fire and burning; apt to catch fire;
inflammable.
Sin is to the soul like fire to combustible matter. South.

2. Ea
Arnold was a combustible character. W. Irving.

COMBUSTIBLE
Com*bus"ti*ble, n.

Defn: A substance that may bee set on fire, or which is liable to
take fire and burn.
All such combustibles as are cheap enough for common use go under the
name of fuel. Ure.

COMBUSTIBLENESS
Com*bus"ti*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Combustibility.

COMBUSTION
Com*bus"tion, n. Etym: [L. combustio: cf. F. combustion.]

1. The state of burning.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The combination of a combustible with a supporter of
combustion, producing heat, and sometimes both light and heat.
Combustion results is common cases from the mutual chemical action
and reaction of the combustible and the oxygen of the atmosphere,
whereby a new compound is formed. Ure.
Supporter of combustion (Chem.), a gas as oxygen, the combination of
which with a combustible, as coal, constitutes combustion.

3. Violent agitation; confusion; tumult. [Obs.]
There [were] great combustions and divisions among the heads of the
university. Mede.
But say from whence this new combustion springs. Dryden.

COMBUSTION CHAMBER
Com*bus"tion cham`ber. (Mech.)
 (a) A space over, or in front of , a boiler furnace where the gases
from the fire become more thoroughly mixed and burnt. (b) The
clearance space in the cylinder of an internal combustion engine
where the charge is compressed and ignited.

COMBUSTIOUS
Com*bus"tious, a.

Defn: Inflammable. [Obs.] Shak.

COME
Come, v. i. [imp. Came; p. p. Come; p. pr & vb. n. Coming.] Etym:
[OE. cumen, comen, AS. cuman; akin to OS.kuman, D. komen, OHG.
queman, G. kommen, Icel. koma, Sw. komma, Dan. komme, Goth. giman, L.
venire (gvenire), Gr. gam. *23. Cf. Base, n., Convene, Adventure.]

1. To move hitherward; to draw near; to approach the speaker, or some
place or person indicated; -- opposed to go.
Look, who comes yonder Shak.
I did not come to curse thee. Tennyson.

2. To complete a movement toward a place; to arrive.
When we came to Rome. Acts xxviii. 16.
Lately come from Italy. Acts vviii. 2.

3. To approach or arrive, as if by a journey or form a distance. "Thy
kingdom come." Matt. vi. 10.
The hour is comming, and now is. John. v. 25.
So quik bright things come to confusion. Shak.

4. To approach or arrive, as the result of a cause, or of the act of
another.
From whence come wars James iv. 1.
Both riches and honor come of thee! Chron. xxix. 12.

5. To arrive in sight; to be manifest; to appear.
Then butter does refuse to come. Hudibras.

6. To get to be, as the result of change or progress; -- with a
predicate; as, to come united.
How come you thus estranged Shak.
How come her eyes so bright Shak.

Note: Am come, is come, etc., are frequently used instead of have
come, has come, etc., esp. in poetry. The verb to be gives adjectival
significance to the participle as expressing a state or condition of
the subject, while the auxiliary have expresses simply the completion
of the action signified by the verb.
Think not that I am come to destroy. Matt. v. 17.
We are come off like Romans. Shak.
The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year. Bryant.

Note: Come may properly be used (instead of go) in speaking of a
movement hence, or away, when there is reference to an approach to
the person addressed; as, I shall come home next week; he will come
to your house to-day. It is used with other verbs almost as an
auxiliary, indicative of approach to the action or state expressed by
the verb; as, how came you to do it Come is used colloquially, with
reference to a definite future time approaching, without an
auxilliary; as, it will be two years, come next Christmas; i. e.,
when Christmas shall come.
They were cried In meeting, come next Sunday. Lowell.
Come, in the imperative, is used to excite attention, or to invite to
motion or joint action; come, let us go. "This is the heir; come, let
us kill him." Matt. xxi. 38. When repeated, it sometimes expresses
haste, or impatience, and sometimes rebuke. "Come, come, no time for
lamentation now." Milton. To come, yet to arrive, future. "In times
to come." Dryden. "There's pippins and cheese to come." Shak.
 -- To come about. (a) To come to pass; to arrive; to happen; to
result; as, how did these things come about (b) To change; to come
round; as, the ship comes about. "The wind is come about." Shak.
On better thoughts, and my urged reasons, They are come about, and
won to the true side. B. Jonson.
-- To come abroad. (a) To move or be away from one's home or country.
"Am come abroad to see the world." Shak. (b) To become public or
known. [Obs.] "Neither was anything kept secret, but that it should
come abroad." Mark. iv. 22.
 -- To come across, to meet; to find, esp. by chance or suddenly. "We
come across more than one incidental mention of those wars." E. A.
Freeman. "Wagner's was certainly one of the strongest and most
independent natures I ever came across." H. R. Heweis.
 -- To come after. (a) To follow. (b) To come to take or to obtain;
as, to come after a book.
 -- To come again, to return. "His spirit came again and he revived."
Judges. xv. 19.
 -- To come and go. (a) To appear and disappear; to change; to
alternate. "The color of the king doth come and go." Shak. (b)
(Mech.) To play backward and forward.
 -- To come at. (a) To reach; to arrive within reach of; to gain; as,
to come at a true knowledge of ourselves. (b) To come toward; to
attack; as, he came at me with fury.
 -- To come away, to part or depart.
 -- To come between, to interverne; to separate; hence, to cause
estrangement.
 -- To come by. (a) To obtain, gain, acquire. "Examine how you came
by all your state." Dryden. (b) To pass near or by way of.
 -- To come down. (a) To descend. (b) To be humbled.
 -- To come down upon, to call to account, to reprimand. [Colloq.]
Dickens.
 -- To come home. (a) To retuen to one's house or family. (b) To come
close; to press closely; to touch the feelings, interest, or reason.
(b) (Naut.) To be loosened from the ground; -- said of an anchor.
 -- To come in. (a) To enter, as a town, house, etc. "The thief
cometh in." Hos. vii. 1. (b) To arrive; as, when my ship comes in.
(c) To assume official station or duties; as, when Lincoln came in.
(d) To comply; to yield; to surrender. "We need not fear his coming
in" Massinger. (e) To be brought into use. "Silken garments did not
come in till late." Arbuthnot. (f) To be added or inserted; to be or
become a part of. (g) To accrue as gain from any business or
investment. (h) To mature and yield a harvest; as, the crops come in
well. (i) To have sexual intercourse; -- with to or unto. Gen.
xxxviii. 16. (j) To have young; to bring forth; as, the cow will come
in next May. [U. S.] -- To come in for, to claim or receive. "The
rest came in for subsidies." Swift.
 -- To come into, to join with; to take part in; to agree to; to
comply with; as, to come into a party or scheme.
 -- To come it ever, to hoodwink; to get the advantage of. [Colloq.]
-- To come near or nigh, to approach in place or quality to be equal
to. "Nothing ancient or modern seems to come near it." Sir W. Temple.
 -- To come of. (a) To descend or spring from. "Of Priam's royal race
my mother came." Dryden. (b) To result or follow from. "This comes of
judging by the eye." L'Estrange.
 -- To come off. (a) To depart or pass off from. (b) To get free; to
get away; to escape. (c) To be carried through; to pass off; as, it
came off well. (d) To acquit one's self; to issue from (a contest,
etc.); as, he came off with honor; hence, substantively, a come off,
an escape; an excuse; an evasion. [Colloq.] (e) To pay over; to give.
[Obs.] (f) To take place; to happen; as, when does the race come off
(g) To be or become after some delay; as, the weather came off very
fine. (h) To slip off or be taken off, as a garment; to separate. (i)
To hurry away; to get through. Chaucer.
 -- To come off by, to suffer. [Obs.] "To come off by the worst."
Calamy.
 -- To come off from, to leave. "To come off from these grave
disquisitions." Felton.
 -- To come on. (a) To advance; to make progress; to thrive. (b) To
move forward; to approach; to supervene.
 -- To come out. (a) To pass out or depart, as from a country, room,
company, etc. "They shall come out with great substance." Gen. xv.
14. (b) To become public; to appear; to be published. "It is indeed
come out at last." Bp. Stillingfleet. (c) To end; to result; to turn
out; as, how will this affair come out he has come out well at last.
(d) To be introduced into society; as, she came out two seasons ago.
(e) To appear; to show itself; as, the sun came out. (f) To take
sides; to take a stand; as, he came out against the tariff.(g) To
publicly admit oneself to be homosexual.
 -- To come out with, to give publicity to; to disclose.
 -- To come over. (a) To pass from one side or place to another.
"Perpetually teasing their friends to come over to them." Addison.
(b) To rise and pass over, in distillation.
 -- To come over to, to join.
 -- To come round. (a) To recur in regular course. (b) To recover.
[Colloq.] (c) To change, as the wind. (d) To relent. J. H. Newman.
(e) To circumvent; to wheedle. [Colloq.] -- To come short, to be
deficient; to fail of attaining. "All have sinned and come short of
the glory of God." Rom. iii. 23.
 -- To come to. (a) To consent or yield. Swift. (b) (Naut.) (with the
accent on to) To luff; to brin the ship's head nearer the wind; to
anchor. (c) (with the accent on to) To recover, as from a swoon. (d)
To arrive at; to reach. (e) To amount to; as, the taxes come to a
large sum. (f) To fall to; to be received by, as an inheritance.
Shak.
 -- To come to blows. See under Blow.
 -- To come to grief. See under Grief.
 -- To come to a head. (a) To suppurate, as a boil. (b) To mature; to
culminate; as a plot.
 -- To come to one's self, to recover one's senses.
 -- To come to pass, to happen; to fall out.
 -- To come to the scratch. (a) (Prize Fighting) To step up to the
scratch or mark made in the ring to be toed by the combatants in
beginning a contest; hence: (b) To meet an antagonist or a difficulty
bravely. [Colloq.] -- To come to time. (a) (Prize Fighting) To come
forward in order to resume the contest when the interval allowed for
rest is over and "time" is called; hence: (b) To keep an appointment;
to meet expectations. [Colloq.] -- To come together. (a) To meet for
business, worship, etc.; to assemble. Acts i. 6. (b) To live together
as man and wife. Matt. i. 18.
 -- To come true, to happen as predicated or expected.
 -- To come under, to belong to, as an individual to a class.
 -- To come up (a) to ascend; to rise. (b) To be brought up; to
arise, as a question. (c) To spring; to shoot or rise above the
earth, as a plant. (d) To come into use, as a fashion.
 -- To come up the capstan (Naut.), to turn it the contrary way, so
as to slacken the rope about it.
 -- To come up the tackle fall (Naut.), to slacken the tackle gently.
Totten.
 -- To come up to, to rise to; to equal.
 -- To come up with, to overtake or reach by pursuit.
 -- To come upon. (a) To befall. (b) To attack or invade. (c) To have
a claim upon; to become dependent upon for support; as, to come upon
the town. (d) To light or chance upon; to find; as, to come upon hid
treasure.

COME
Come, v. t.

Defn: To carry through; to succeed in; as, you can't come any tricks
here. [Slang] To come it, to succeed in a trick of any sort. [Slang]

COME
Come, n.

Defn: Coming. Chaucer.

COME-ALONG
Come"-a*long`, n.

Defn: A gripping device, as for stretching wire, etc., consisting of
two jaws so attached to a ring that they are closed by pulling on the
ring.

CO-MEDDLE
Co-med"dle, v. t.

Defn: To mix; to mingle, to temper. [Obs.] Shak.

COMEDIAN
Co*me"di*an, n. Etym: [Cf. F. comédien.]

1. An actor or player in comedy. "The famous comedian, Roscius."
Middleton.

2. A writer of comedy. Milton.

COMEDIENNE
Co*mé`di*enne", n. Etym: [F., fem. of com.]

Defn: A women who plays in comedy.

COMEDIETTA
Co*me`di*et"ta, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A dramatic sketch; a brief comedy.

COMEDO
Com"e*do, n.; pl. Comedones. Etym: [L., a glutton. See Comestible.]
(Med.)

Defn: A small nodule or cystic tumor, common on the nose, etc., which
on pressure allows the escape of a yellow wormlike mass of retained
oily secretion, with a black head (dirt).

COMEDOWN
Come"down`, n.

Defn: A downfall; an humillation. [Colloq.]

COMEDY
Com"e*dy, n.; pl. Comedies. Etym: [F. comédie, L. comoedia, fr. Gr.
home) + Home, and Ode.]

Defn: A dramatic composition, or representation of a bright and
amusing character, based upon the foibles of individuals, the manners
of society, or the ludicrous events or accidents of life; a play in
which mirth predominates and the termination of the plot is happy; --
opposed to tragedy.
With all the vivacity if comedy. Macaulay.
Are come to play a pleasant comedy. Shak.

COMELILY
Come"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a suitable or becoming manner. [R.] Sherwood.

COMELINESS
Come"li*ness, n. Etym: [See Comely.]

Defn: The quality or state of being comely.
Comeliness is a disposing fair Of things and actions in fit time and
place. Sir J. Davies.
Strength, comeliness of shape, or amplest merit. Milton.
Comeliness signifies something less forcible than beauty, less
elegant than grace, and less light than prettiness. Johnson.

COMELY
Come"ly, a. [Compar. Comelier; superl. Comeliest.] Etym: [OE.
comeliche, AS. cymlic; cyme suitable (fr. cuman to come, become) +
lic like.]

1. Pleasing or agreeable to the sight; well-proportioned; good-
looking; handsome.
He that is comely when old and decrepit, surely was very beautiful
when he was young. South.
Not once perceive their foul disfigurement But boast themselves more
comely than before. Milton.

2. Suitable or becoming; proper; agreeable.
This is a happier and more comely time Than when these fellows ran
about the streets, Crying confusion. Shak.
It is good to sing praises unto our God; for it is pleasant; and
praise is comely. Ps. cxlvii. 1.

COMELY
Come"ly, adv.

Defn: In a becoming manner. Ascham.

COME-OUTER
Come-out"er, n.

Defn: One who comes out or withdraws from a religious or other
organization; a radical reformer. [Colloq. U. S.]

COMER
Com"er, n.

Defn: One who comes, or who has come; one who has arrived, and is
present. All comers, all who come, or offer, to take part in a
matter, especially in a contest or controversy. "To prove it against
all comers." Bp. Stillingfleet.

COMES
Co"mes, n. Etym: [L., a companion.] (Mus.)

Defn: The answer to the theme (dux) in a fugue.

COMESSATION
Com`es*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. comissatio, comessatio.]

Defn: A reveling; a rioting. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

COMESTIBLE
Co*mes"ti*ble, a. Etym: [F. comestible, fr. L. comesus, comestus, p.
p. pf comedere to eat; com- + edere to eat.]

Defn: Suitable to be eaten; eatable; esculent.
Some herbs are most comestible. Sir T. Elyot.

COMESTIBLE
Co*mes"ti*ble, n.

Defn: Something suitable to be eaten; -- commonly in the plural.
Thackeray.

COMET
Com"et, n. Etym: [L. cometes, cometa, from Gr. coma: cf. F. comète.]
(Astron.)

Defn: A member of the solar system which usually moves in an
elongated orbit, approaching very near to the sun in its perihelion,
and receding to a very great distance from it at its aphelion. A
comet commonly consists of three parts: the nucleus, the envelope, or
coma, and the tail; but one or more of these parts is frequently
wanting. See Illustration in Appendix.

COMETARIUM
Com`e*ta"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL.] (Astron.)

Defn: An instrument, intended to represent the revolution of a comet
round the sun. Hutton.

COMETARY
Com"et*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cométaire.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a comet. Cheyne.

COMET-FINDER; COMET-SEEKER
Com"et-find`er, or Com"et-seek`er, n. (Astron.)

Defn: A telescope of low power, having a large field of view, used
for finding comets.

COMETHER
Co*meth"er, n. [Prob. dial. pron. of come hither, used in calling
cows, etc.] [Dial. or Colloq., Brit.]

1.

Defn: Matter; affair.

2.  Friendly communication or association.

To put the, or one's, comether on, to exercise persuasion upon; to
get under one's influence; to beguile; to wheedle.

How does ut come about, sorr, that whin a man has put the comether on
wan woman he's sure bound to put ut on another
Kipling.

COMETIC
Co*met"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to a comet.

COMETOGRAPHER
Com`et*og"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who describes or writes about comets.

COMETOGRAPHY
Com`et*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Comet + -graphy: cf. F. cométographie.]

Defn: A description of, or a treatise concerning, comets.

COMETOLOGY
Com`et*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Comet + -logy.]

Defn: The department of astronomy relating to comets.

COMFIT
Com"fit, n. Etym: [F. confit, prop. a p. p., fr. confire to preserve,
pickle, fr. L. conficere to prepare; con- + facere to make. See Fact,
and cf. Confect.]

Defn: A dry sweetmeat; any kind of fruit, root, or seed preserved
with sugar and dried; a confection.

COMFIT
Com"fit, v. t.

Defn: To preserve dry with sugar.
The fruit which does so quickly waste, . . . Thou comfitest in sweets
to make it last. Cowley.

COMFITURE
Com"fi*ture, n. Etym: [F. confiture; cf. LL. confecturae sweetmeats,
confectura a preparing. See Comfit, and cf. Confiture.]

Defn: See Comfit, n.

COMFORT
Com"fort, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Comforted; p. pr. & vb. n. Comforting.]
Etym: [F. conforter, fr. L. confortare to strengthen much; con- +
fortis strong. See Fort.]

1. To make strong; to invigorate; to fortify; to corroborate. [Obs.]
Wyclif.
God's own testimony . . . doth not a little comfort and confirm the
same. Hooker.

2. To assist or help; to aid. [Obs.]
I . . . can not help the noble chevalier: God comfort him in this
necessity! Shak.

3. To impart strength and hope to; to encourage; to relieve; to
console; to cheer,
Light excelleth in comforting the spirits of men. Bacon.
That we may be adle to comfort them that are in any affliction. 2
Cor. i. 4. (Rev. Ver. ).
A perfect woman, nobly planned, To warn, to comfort, and command.
Wordsworth.

Syn.
 -- To cheer; solace; console; revive; encourage; enliven;
invigorate; inspirit, gladden; recreate; exhilarate; refresh;
animate; confirm; strengthen.
 -- To Comfort, Console, Solace. These verbs all suppose some
antecedent state of suffering or sorrow. Console in confined to the
act giving sympathetic relief to the mind under affliction or sorrow,
and points to some definite source of that relief; as, the presence
of his friend consoled him; he was much consoled by this
intelligence. The act of consoling commonly implies the inculcation
of resignation. Comfort points to relief afforded by the
communication of positive pleasure, hope, and strength, as well as by
the diminution of pain; as, "They brought the young man alive, and
were not a little comforted." Acts xx. 12.

Note: Solace is from L. solacium, which means according to Dumesnil,
consolation inwardly felt or applied to the case of the sufferer.
Hence, the verb to solace denotes the using of things for the purpose
of affording relief under sorrow or suffering; as, to solace one's
self with reflections, with books, or with active employments.

COMFORT
Com"fort, n. Etym: [OF. confort, fr. conforter.]

1. Assistance; relief; support. [Obs. except in the phrase "aid and
comfort." See 5 below.] Shak.

2. Encouragement; solace; consolation in trouble; also, that which
affords consolation.
In comfort of her mother's fears. Shak.
Cheer thy spirit with this comfort. Shak.
Speaking words of endearment where words of comfort availed not.
Longfellow.

3. A state of quiet enjoyment; freedom from pain, want, or anxiety;
also, whatever contributes to such a condition.
I had much joy and comfort in thy love. Phil. 7 (Rev. Ver. ).
He had the means of living in comfort. Macaulay.

4. A wadded bedquilt; a comfortable. [U. S.]

5. (Law)

Defn: Unlawful support, countenance, or encouragement; as, to give
aid and comfort to the enemy.

Syn.
 -- Comfort, Consolation. Comfort has two meanings:

1. Strength and relief received under affliction;

2. Positive enjoyment, of a quiet, permanent nature, together with
the sources thereof; as, the comfort of love; surrounded with
comforts; but it is with the former only that the word consolation is
brought into comparison. As thus compared, consolation points to some
specific source of relief for the afflicted mind; as, the
consolations of religion. Comfort supposes the relief to be afforded
by imparting positive enjoyment, as well as a diminution of pain.
"Consolation, or comfort, signifies some alleviation to that pain to
which it is not in our power to afford the proper and adequate
remedy; they imply rather an augmentation of the power of bearing,
than a diminution of the burden." Johnson.

COMFORTABLE
Com"fort*a*ble, a. Etym: [OF. confortable.]

1. Strong; vigorous; valiant. [Obs.] Wyclif.
Thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers. For my sake be
comfortable; hold death a while at the arm's end. Shak.

2. Serviceable; helpful. [Obs.]
Be comfortable to my mother, your mistress, and make much of her.
Shak.

3. Affording or imparting comfort or consolation; able to comfort;
cheering; as, a comfortable hope. "Kind words and comfortable."
Cowper.
A comfortable provision made for their subsistence. Dryden.

4. In a condition of comfort; having comforts; not suffering or
anxious; hence, contented; cheerful; as, to lead a comfortable life.
My lord leans wondrously to discontent; His comfortable temper has
forsook him: He is much out of health. Shak.

5. Free, or comparatively free, from pain or distress; -- used of a
sick person. [U. S.]

COMFORTABLE
Com"fort*a*ble, n.

Defn: A stuffed or quilted coverlet for a bed; a comforter; a
comfort. [U. S.]

COMFORTABLENESS
Com"fort*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: State of being comfortable or comforting manner.
Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem. Is. xl. 2.

COMFORTABLY
Com"fort*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a comfortable or comforting manner.

Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem.
Is. xl. 2.

COMFORTER
Com"fort*er, n.

1. One who administers comfort or consolation.
Let no comforter delight mine ear But such a one whose wrongs do suit
with mine. Shak.

2. (Script.)

Defn: The Holy Spirit, -- reffering to his office of comforting
believers.
But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send
in my name, he shall teach you all things. John xiv. 26.

3. A knit woolen tippet, long and narrow. [U. S.]
The American schoolboy takes off his comforter and unbuttons his
jacket before going in for a snowball fight. Pop. Sci. Monthly.

4. A wadded bedquilt; a comfortable. [U. S.] Job's comforter, a boil.
[Colloq.]

COMFORTLESS
Com"fort*less, a.

Defn: Without comfort or comforts; in want or distress; cheerless.
Comfortless through turanny or might. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- Forlorn; desolate; cheerless; inconsolable; disconsolate;
wretched; miserable.
 -- Com"fort*less*ly, adv.
 -- Com"fort*less*ness, n.
When all is coldly, comfortlessly costly. Milton.

COMFORTMENT
Com"fort*ment, n.

Defn: Act or process of administering comfort. [Obs.]
The gentle comfortment and entertainment of the said embassador.
Hakluyt.

COMFORTRESS
Com"fort*ress, n.

Defn: A woman who comforts.
To be your comfortress, and to preserve you. B. Jonson.

COMFREY
Com"frey, n. Etym: [Prob. from F. conferve, L. conferva, fr.
confervere to boil together, in medical language, to heal, grow
together. So called on account of its healing power, for which reason
it was also called consolida.] (Bot.)

Defn: A rough, hairy, perennial plant of several species, of the
genus Symphytum.

Note: A decoction of the mucilaginous root of the "common comfrey"
(S. officinale) is used in cough mixtures, etc.; and the gigantic
"prickly comfrey" (S. asperrimum) is somewhat cultivated as a forage
plant.

COMIC
Com"ic, a. Etym: [L. comicus pertaining to comedy, Gr. comique. See
Comedy.]

1. Relating to comedy, as distinct from tragedy.
I can not for the stage a drama lay, Tragic or comic, but thou
writ'st the play. B. Jonson.

2. Causing mirth; ludicrous. "Comic shows." Shak.

COMIC
Com"ic, n.

Defn: A comedian. [Obs.] Steele.

COMICAL
Com"ic*al, a.

1. Relating to comedy.
They deny it to be tragical because its catastrphe is a wedding,
which hath ever been accounted comical. Gay.

2. Exciting mirth; droll; laughable; as, a comical story. "Comical
adventures." Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Humorous; laughable; funny. See Droll.
 -- Com"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Com"ic*al"ness, n.

COMICALITY
Com`i*cal"i*ty, n.; pl. Comicalities.

Defn: The quality of being comical; something comical.

COMICRY
Com"ic*ry, n.

Defn: The power of exciting mirth; comicalness. [R.] H. Giles.

COMING
Com"ing, a.

1. Approaching; of the future, especially the near future; the next;
as, the coming week or year; the coming exhibition.
Welcome the coming, speed the parting, guest. Pope.
Your coming days and years. Byron.

2. Ready to come; complaisant; fond. [Obs.] Pope.

COMING
Com"ing, n.

1. Approach; advent; manifestation; as, the coming of the train.

2. Specifically: The Second Advent of Christ. Coming in.
(a) Entrance; entrance way; manner of entering; beginning. "The
goings out thereof, and the comings in thereof." Ezek. xliii. 11
(b) Income or revenue. "What are thy comings in" Shak.

COMITIA
Co*mi"ti*a, n., pl. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A public assembly of the Roman people for electing officers or
passing laws.

Note: There were three kinds of comitia: comitia curiata, or assembly
of the patricians, who voted in curiæ; comitia centuriata, or
assembly of the whole Roman people, who voted by centuries; and
comitia tributa, or assembly of the plebeians according to their
division into tribes.

COMITIAL
Co*mi"tial, a. Etym: [L. comitialis.]

Defn: Relating to the comitia, or popular assembles of the Romans for
electing officers and passing laws. Middleton.

COMITIVA
Co`mi*ti"va, n. [It.]

Defn: A body of followers; -- applied to the lawless or brigand bands
in Italy and Sicily.

COMITY
Com"i*ty, n.; pl. Comities. Etym: [L. comitas, fr. comis courteous,
kind.]

Defn: Mildness and suavity of manners; courtesy between equals;
friendly equals; friendly civility; as, comity of manners; the comity
of States. Comity of nations (International Law), the courtesy by
which nations recognize within their own territory, or in their
courts, the peculiar institutions of another nation or the rights and
privileges acquired by its citizens in their own land. By some
authorities private international law rests on this comity, but the
better opinion is that it is part of the common law of the land, and
hence is obligatory as law.

Syn.
 -- Civility; good breeding; courtesy; good will.

COMMA
Com"ma, n. Etym: [L. comma part of a sentence, comma, Gr. Capon.]

1. A character or point [,] marking the smallest divisions of a
sentence, written or printed.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A small interval (the difference beyween a major and minor half
step), seldom used except by tuners. Comma bacillus (Physiol.), a
variety of bacillus shaped like a comma, found in the intestines of
patients suffering from cholera. It is considered by some as having a
special relation to the disease; -- called also cholera bacillus.
 -- Comma butterfly (Zoöl.), an American butterfly (Grapta comma),
having a white comma-shaped marking on the under side of the wings.

COMMAND
Com*mand" (; 61), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commanded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commanding.] Etym: [OE. comaunden, commanden, OF. comander, F.
commander, fr. L. com- + mandare to commit to, to command. Cf.
Commend, Mandate.]

1. To order with authority; to lay injunction upon; to direct; to
bid; to charge.
We are commanded to forgive our enemies, but you never read that we
are commanded to forgive our friends. Bacon.
Go to your mistress: Say, I command her come to me. Shak.

2. To exercise direct authority over; to have control of; to have at
one's disposal; to lead.
Monmouth commanded the English auxiliaries. Macaulay.
Such aid as I can spare you shall command. Shak.

3. To have within a sphere of control, influence, access, or vision;
to dominate by position; to guard; to overlook.
Bridges commanded by a fortified house. Motley.
Up to the eastern tower, Whose height commands as subject all the
vale. Shak.
One side commands a view of the finest garden. Addison.

4. To have power or influence of the nature of authority over; to
obtain as if by ordering; to reeceive as a due; to challenge; to
claim; as, justice commands the respect and affections of the people;
the best goods command the best price.
'Tis not in mortals to command success. Addison.

5. To direct to come; to bestow. [Obs.]
I will command my blessing upon you. Lev. xxv. 21.

Syn.
 -- To bid; order; direct; dictate; charge; govern; rule; overlook.

COMMAND
Com*mand", v. i.

1. To have or to exercise direct authority; to govern; to sway; to
influence; to give an order or orders.
And reigned, commanding in his monarchy. Shak.
For the king had so commanded concerning [Haman]. Esth. iii. 2.

2. To have a view, as from a superior position.
Far and wide his eye commands. Milton.

COMMAND
Com*mand", n.

1. An authoritative order requiring obedience; a mandate; an
injunction.
A waiting what command their mighty chief Had to impose. Milton.

2. The possession or exercise of authority.
Command and force may often create, but can never cure, an aversion.
Locke.

3. Authority; power or right of control; leadership; as, the forces
under his command.

4. Power to dominate, command, or overlook by means of position;
scope of vision; survey.
Te steepy stand Which overlooks the vale with wide command. Dryden.

5. Control; power over something; sway; influence; as, to have
command over one's temper or voice; the fort has command of the
bridge.
He assumed an absolute command over his readers. Druden.

6. A body of troops, or any naval or military force or post, or the
whole territory under the authority or control of a particular
officer.

Word of command (Mil.), a word or phrase of definite and established
meaning, used in directing the movements of soldiers; as, aim; fire;
shoulder arms, etc.

Syn.
 -- Control; sway; power; authority; rule; dominion; sovereignty;
mandate; order; injunction; charge; behest. See Direction.

COMMANDABLE
Com*mand"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being commanded.

COMMANDANT
Com`man*dant", n. Etym: [F., orig. p. pr. of commander.]

Defn: A commander; the commanding officer of a place, or of a body of
men; as, the commandant of a navy-yard.

COMMANDATORY
Com*mand"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Mandatory; as, commandatory authority. [Obs.]

COMMANDEER
Com`man*deer", v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Commandeered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commandeering.] [D. kommandeeren to command, in South Africa to
commandeer, fr. F. commander to command. See Command.]

1.  (Mil.)

Defn: To compel to perform military service; to seize for military
purposes; -- orig. used of the Boers.

2.  To take arbitrary or forcible possession of. [Colloq.]

COMMANDER
Com*mand"er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. commandeur. Cf. Commodore, Commender.]

1. A chief; one who has supreme authority; a leader; the chief
officer of an army, or of any division of it.
A leader and commander to the people. Is. lv. 4.

2. (Navy)

Defn: An officer who ranks next below a captain, -- ranking with a
lieutenant colonel in the army.

3. The chief officer of a commandery.

4. A heavy beetle or wooden mallet, used in paving, in sail lofts,
etc. Commander in chief, the military title of the officer who has
supreme command of the land or naval forces or the united forces of a
nation or state; a generalissimo. The President is commander in chief
of the army and navy of the United States.

Syn.
 -- See Chief.

COMMANDERSHIP
Com*mand"er*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a commander.

COMMANDERY
Com*mand"er*y, n.; pl. Commanderies. Etym: [F. commanderie.]

1. The office or rank of a commander. [Obs.]

2. A district or a manor with lands and tenements appertaining
thereto, under the control of a member of an order of knights who was
called a commander; -- called also a preceptory.

3. An assembly or lodge of Knights Templars (so called) among the
Freemasons. [U. S.]

4. A district under the administration of a military commander or
governor. [R.] Brougham.

COMMANDING
Com*mand"ing, a.

1. Exercising authority; actually in command; as, a commanding
officer.

2. Fitted to impress or control; as, a commanding look or presence.

3. Exalted; overlooking; having superior strategic advantages; as, a
commanding position.

Syn.
 -- Authoritative; imperative; imperious.

COMMANDINGLY
Com*mand"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a commanding manner.

COMMANDMENT
Com*mand"ment, n. Etym: [OF. commandement, F. commandement.]

1. An order or injunction given by authority; a command; a charge; a
precept; a mandate.
A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another. John
xiii. 34.

2. (Script.)

Defn: One of the ten laws or precepts given by God to the Israelites
at Mount Sinai.

3. The act of commanding; exercise of authority.
And therefore put I on the countenance Of stern commandment. Shak.

4. (Law)

Defn: The offense of commanding or inducing another to violate the
law. The Commandments, The Ten Commandments, the Decalogue, or
summary of God's commands, given to Moses at Mount Sinai. (Ex. xx.)

COMMANDO
Com*man"do, n. [D. See Command, v. t.]

Defn: In South Africa, a military body or command; also, sometimes,
an expedition or raid; as, a commando of a hundred Boers.

The war bands, called commandos, have played a great part in the . .
. military history of the country.
James Bryce.

COMMANDRESS
Com*mand"ress, n.

Defn: A woman invested with authority to command. Hooker.

COMMANDRY
Com*mand"ry, n.

Defn: See Commandery.

COMMARK
Com"mark`, n. Etym: [Of. comarque, or LL. commarca, commarcha; com- +
marcha, boundary. See March a confine.]

Defn: The frontier of a country; confines. [Obs.] Shelton.

COMMATERIAL
Com`ma*te"ri*al, a.

Defn: Consisting of the same material. [Obs.] Bacon.

COMMATIC
Com*mat"ic, a. Etym: [L. commaticus, Gr. Comma.]

Defn: Having short clauses or sentences; brief; concise.

COMMATISM
Com"ma*tism, n. Etym: [See Commatic.]

Defn: Conciseness in writing. Bp. Horsley.

COMMEASURABLE
Com*meas"ur*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. Commensurable.]

Defn: Having the same measure; commensurate; proportional.
She being now removed by death, a commeasurable grief took as full
possession of him as joy had one. I. Walton.

COMMEASURE
Com*meas"ure, v. t.

Defn: To be commensurate with; to equal. Tennyson.

COMMEMORABLE
Com*mem"o*ra"ble, a. Etym: [L. commemorabilis.]

Defn: Worthy to be commemorated.

COMMEMORATE
Com*mem"o*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commemorated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commemorating.] Etym: [L. commemoratus, p. p. of commemorare to
remember; com- + memorare to mention, fr. memor mindful. See Memory.]

Defn: To call to remembrance by a special act or observance; to
celebrate with honor and solemnity; to honor, as a person or event,
by some act of respect of affection, intended to preserve the
remembrance of the person or event; as, to commemorate the sufferings
and dying love of our Savior by the sacrament of the Lord's Supper;
to commemorate the Declaration of Independence by the observance of
the Fourth of July.
We are called upon to commemorate a revolution. Atterbury.

Syn.
 -- See Celebrate.

COMMEMORATION
Com*mem`o*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. commemoratio.]

1. The act of commemorating; an observance or celebration designed to
honor the memory of some person or event.
This sacrament was designed to be a standing commemoration of the
death and passion of our Lord. Abp. Tillotson.
The commonwealth which . . . chooses the most flagrant act of
murderous regicide treason for a feast of eternal commemoration.
Burke.

2. Whatever serves the purpose of commemorating; a memorial.
Commemoration day, at the University of Oxford, Eng., an annual
observance or ceremony in honor of the benefactors of the University,
at which time honorary degrees are conferred.

COMMEMORATIVE
Com*mem"o*ra*tive, a.

Defn: Tending or intended to commemorate. "A sacrifice commemorative
of Christ's offering up his body for us." Hammond.
An inscription commemorative of his victory. Sir G. C. Lewis.

COMMEMORATOR
Com*mem"o*ra`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who commemorates.

COMMEMORATORY
Com*mem"o*ra*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving to commemorate; commomerative. Bp. Hooper.

COMMENCE
Com*mence", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Commenced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commencing.] Etym: [F. commencer, OF. commencier, fr. L. com- +
initiare to begin. See Initiate.]

1. To have a beginning or origin; to originate; to start; to begin.
Here the anthem doth commence. Shak.
His heaven commences ere the world be past. Goldsmith.

2. To begin to be, or to act as. [Archaic]
We commence judges ourselves. Coleridge.

3. To take a degree at a university. [Eng.]
I question whether the formality of commencing was used in that age.
Fuller.

COMMENCE
Com*mence", v. t.

Defn: To enter upon; to begin; to perform the first act of.
Many a wooer doth commence his suit. Shak.

Note: It is the practice of good writers to use the verbal noun
(instead of the infinitive with to) after commence; as, he commenced
studying, not he commenced to study.

COMMENCEMENT
Com*mence"ment, n. Etym: [F. comencement.]

1. The first existence of anything; act or fact of commencing; rise;
origin; beginnig; start.
The time of Henry VII . . . nearly coincides with the commencement of
what is termed "modern history."

2. The day when degrees are conferred by colleges and universities
upon students and others.

COMMEND
Com*mend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commended; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commending.] Etym: [L. commendare; com- + mandare to intrust to one's
charge, enjoin, command. Cf. Command, Mandate.]

1. To commit, intrust, or give in charge for care or preservation.
His eye commends the leading to his hand. Shak.
Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. Luke xxiii. 46.

2. To recommend as worthy of confidence or regard; to present as
worthy of notice or favorable attention.
Among the objects of knowlwdge, two especially commend themselves to
our contemplation. Sir M. Hale.
I commend unto you Phebe our sister. Rom. xvi. 1.

3. To mention with approbation; to praise; as, to commend a person or
an act.
Historians commend Alexander for weeping when he read the actions of
Achilles. Dryden.

4. To mention by way of courtesy, implying remembrance and good will.
[Archaic]
Commend me to my brother. Shak.

COMMEND
Com*mend", n.

1. Commendation; praise. [Obs.]
Speak in his just commend. Shak.

2. pl.

Defn: Compliments; greetings. [Obs.]
Hearty commends and much endeared love to you. Howell.

COMMENDABLE
Com*mend"a*ble, a.

Note: (Formerly accented on the first syllable.) Etym: [L.
commendabilis.]

Defn: Worthy of being commended or praised; laudable; praiseworthy.
Order and decent ceremonies in the church are not only comely but
commendable. Bacon.
-- Com*mend"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Com*mend"a*bly, adv.

COMMENDAM
Com*men"dam, n. Etym: [LL. dare in commendam to give into trust.]
(Eng. Eccl. Law)

Defn: A vacant living or benefice commended to a cleric (usually a
bishop) who enjoyed the revenue until a pastor was provided. A living
so held was said to be held in commendam. The practice was abolished
by law in 1836.
There was [formerly] some sense for commendams. Selden.
Partnership in commendam. See under Partnership.

COMMENDATARY
Com*mend"a*ta*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. commendataire, LL.
commendatarius.]

Defn: One who holds a living in commendam.

COMMENDATION
Com`men*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. commendatio.]

1. The act of commending; praise; favorable representation in words;
recommendation.
Need we . . . epistles of commendatiom 2 Cor. iii. 1.
By the commendation of the great officers. Bacon.

2. That which is the ground of approbation or praise.
Good nature is the most godlike commendation of a man. Dryden.

3. pl.

Defn: A message of affection or respect; compliments; greeting.
[Obs.]
Hark you, Margaret; No princely commendations to my king Shak.

COMMENDATOR
Com*mend"a*tor ( or ), n. Etym: [LL.]

Defn: One who holds a benefice in commendam; a commendatary.
Chalmers.

COMMENDATORY
Com*mend"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. commendatorius.]

1. Serving to commend; containing praise or commendation; commending;
praising. "Commendatory verses." Pope.

2. Holding a benefice in commendam; as, a commendatory bishop. Burke.
Commendatory prayer (Book of Common Prayer), a prayer read over the
dying. "The commendatory prayer was said for him, and, as it ended,
he [William III.] died." Bp. Burnet.

COMMENDATORY
Com*mend"a*to*ry, n.

Defn: A commendation; eulogy. [R.] "Commendatories to our affection."
Sharp.

COMMENDER
Com*mend"er, n.

Defn: One who commends or praises.

COMMENSAL
Com*men"sal, n. Etym: [LL. commensalis; L. com- + mensa table: cf. F.
commensal. Cf. Mensal.]

1. One who eats at the same table. [Obs.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal, not truly parasitic, which lives in with, or on,
another, partaking usually of the same food. Both species may be
benefited by the association.

COMMENSAL
Com*men"sal, a.

Defn: Having the character of a commensal.

COMMENSALISM
Com*men"sal*ism, n.

Defn: The act of eating together; table fellowship.

COMMENSALITY
Com`men*sal"i*ty, n.

Defn: Fellowship at table; the act or practice of eating at the same
table. [Obs.] "Promiscuous commensality." Sir T. Browne.

COMMENSATION
Com`men*sa"tion, n.

Defn: Commensality. [Obs.]
Daniel . . . declined pagan commensation. Sir T. Browne.

COMMENSURABILITY
Com*men`su*ra*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. commensurabilite.]

Defn: The quality of being commersurable. Sir T. Browne.

COMMENSURABLE
Com*men"su*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. commensurabilis; pref. com- +
mensurable. See Commensurate, and cf. Commeasurable.]

Defn: Having a common measure; capable of being exactly measured by
the same number, quantity, or measure.
 -- Com*men"su*ra*ble*ness, n. Commensurable numbers or quantities
(Math.), those that can be exactly expressed by some common unit;
thus a foot and yard are commensurable, since both can be expressed
in terms of an inch, one being 12 inches, the other 36 inches.
 -- Numbers, or Quantities, commensurable in power, those whose
squares are commensurable.

COMMENSURABLY
Com*men"su*ra*bly, adv.

Defn: In a commensurable manner; so as to be commensurable.

COMMENSURATE
Com*men"su*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commensurated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commensurating.] Etym: [Pref. com- + mensurate.]

1. To reduce to a common measure. Sir T. Browne.

2. To proportionate; to adjust. T. Puller

COMMENSURATE
Com*men"su*rate, a.

1. Having a common measure; commensurable; reducible to a common
measure; as, commensurate quantities.

2. Equal in measure or extent; proportionate.
Those who are persuaded that they shall continue forever, can not
choose but aspire after a hapiness commensurate to their duration.
Tillotson.

COMMENSURATELY
Com*men"su*rate*ly, adv.

1. In a commensurate manner; so as to be equal or proportionate;
adequately.

2. With equal measure or extent. Goodwin.

COMMENSURATENESS
Com*men"su*rate*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being commensurate. Foster.

COMMENSURATION
Com*men`su*ra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. commensuration.]

Defn: The act of commensurating; the state of being commensurate.
All fitness lies in a particular commensuration, or proportion of one
thing to another. South.

COMMENT
Com"ment, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Commented; p. pr. & vb. n. Commenting.]
Etym: [F. commenter, L. commentary to meditate upon, explain, v.
intens, of comminisci, commentus, to reflect upon, invent; com- + the
root of meminisse to remember, mens mind. See Mind.]

Defn: To make remarks, observations, or criticism; especially, to
write notes on the works of an author, with a view to illustrate his
meaning, or to explain particular passages; to write annotations; --
often followed by on or upon.
A physician to comment on your malady. Shak.
Critics . . . proceed to comment on him. Dryden.
I must translate and comment. Pope.

COMMENT
Com"ment, v. t.

Defn: To comment on. [Archaic.] Fuller.

COMMENT
Com"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. comment.]

1. A remark, observation, or criticism; gossip; discourse; talk.
Their lavish comment when her name was named. Tennyson.

2. A note or observation intended to explain, illustrate, or
criticise the meaning of a writing, book, etc.; explanation;
annotation; exposition.
All the volumes of philosophy, With all their comments. Prior.

COMMENTARY
Com"men*ta*ry, n.; pl. Commentaries. Etym: [L. commentarius,
commentarium, note book, commentary: cf. F. commentaire. See Comment,
v. i.]

1. A series of comments or annotations; esp., a book of explanations
or expositions on the whole or a part of the Scriptures or of some
other work.
This letter . . . was published by him with a severe commentary.
Hallam.

2. A brief account of transactions or events written hastily, as if
for a memorandum; -- usually in the plural; as, Caesar's Commentaries
on the Gallic War.

COMMENTATE
Com"men*tate, v. t. & i. Etym: [L. commentatus, p. p. of commentari
to meditate.]

Defn: To write comments or notes upon; to make comments. [R.]
Commentate upon it, and return it enriched. Lamb.

COMMENTATION
Com`men*ta"tion, n.

1. The act or process of commenting or criticising; exposition. [R.]
The spirit of commentation. Whewell.

2. The result of the labors of a commentator.

COMMENTATOR
Com"men*ta`tor, n. Etym: [L. commentator: cf. F. commentateur.]

Defn: One who writes a commentary or comments; an expositor; an
annotator.
The commentator's professed object is to explain, to enforce, to
illustrate doctrines claimed as true. Whewell.

COMMENTATORIAL
Com`men*ta*to"ri*al ( or , a.

Defn: Pertaining to the making of commentaries. Whewell.

COMMENTATORSHIP
Com"men*ta`tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office or occupation of a commentator.

COMMENTER
Com"ment`er, n.

Defn: One who makes or writes comments; a commentator; an annotator.

COMMENTITIOUS
Com`men*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. commentitius.]

Defn: Fictitious or imaginary; unreal; as, a commentitious system of
religion. [Obs.] Warburton.

COMMERCE
Com"merce, n.

Note: (Formerly accented on the second syllable.) Etym: [F. commerce,
L. commercium; com- + merx, mercis, merchadise. See Merchant.]

1. The exchange or buying and selling of commodities; esp. the
exchange of merchandise, on a large scale, between different places
or communities; extended trade or traffic.
The public becomes powerful in proportion to the opulence and
extensive commerce of private men. Hume.

2. Social intercourse; the dealings of one person or class in society
with another; familiarity.
Fifteen years of thought, observation, and commerce with the world
had made him [Bunyan] wiser. Macaulay.

3. Sexual intercourse. W. Montagu.

4. A round game at cards, in which the cards are subject to exchange,
barter, or trade. Hoyle. Chamber of commerce. See Chamber.

Syn.
 -- Trade; traffic; dealings; intercourse; interchange; communion;
communication.

COMMERCE
Com*merce" ( or , v. i. [imp. & p. p. Commerced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commercing.] Etym: [Cf. F. commercer, fr. LL. commerciare.]

1. To carry on trade; to traffic. [Obs.]
Beware you commerce not with bankrupts. B. Jonson.

2. To hold intercourse; to commune. Milton.
Commercing with himself. Tennyson.
Musicians . . . taught the people in angelic harmonies to commerce
with heaven. Prof. Wilson.

COMMERCE DESTROYER
Com"merce de*stroy"er. (Nav.)

Defn: A very fast, unarmored, lightly armed vessel designed to
capture or destroy merchant vessels of an enemy. Not being intended
to fight, they may be improvised from fast passenger steamers.

COMMERCIAL
Com*mer"cial, a. Etym: [Cf. F. commercial.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to commerce; carrying on or occupied with
commerce or trade; mercantile; as, commercial advantages; commercial
relations. "Princely commercial houses." Macaulay. Commercial
college, a school for giving instruction in commercial knowledge and
business.
 -- Commercial law. See under Law.
 -- Commercial note paper, a small size of writing paper, usually
about 5 by 7½ or 8 inches.
 -- Commercial paper, negotiable paper given in due course of
business. It includes bills of exchange, promissory notes, bank
cheks, etc.
 -- Commercial traveler, an agent of a wholesale house who travels
from town to town to solicit orders.

Syn.
 -- See Mercantile.

COMMERCIALISM
Com*mer"cial*ism, n.

Defn: The commercial spirit or method. C. Kingsley.

COMMERCIALLY
Com*mer"cial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a commercial manner.

COMMIGRATE
Com"mi*grate, v. i. Etym: [L. commigrare, commigratum.]

Defn: To migrate together. [R.]

COMMIGRATION
Com`mi*gra"tion, n. Etym: [L. commigratio.]

Defn: Migration together. [R.] Woodward.

COMMINATION
Com`mi*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. comminatio, from comminary to threaten;
com- + minari to threaten: cf. F. commination.]

1. A threat or threatening; a denunciation of punishment or
vengeance.
With terrible comminations to all them that did resist. I. Taylor.

2. An office in the liturgy of the Church of England, used on Ash
Wednesday, containing a recital of God's anger and judgments against
sinners.

COMMINATORY
Com*min"a*to"ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. comminatoire.]

Defn: Threatening or denouncing punishment; as, comminatory terms. B.
Jonson.

COMMINGLE
Com*min"gle, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Commingled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commingling.]

Defn: To mingle together; to mix in one mass, or intimately; to
blend. Bacon.

COMMINGLER
Com*min"gler, n.

Defn: One that commingles; specif., a device for noiseless heating of
water by steam, in a vessel filled with a porous mass, as of pebbles.

COMMINUTE
Com"mi*nute, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Comminuted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Comminuting.] Etym: [L. comminutus, p. p. of comminuere to comminute;
com- + minuere to lessen. See Minute.]

Defn: To reduce to minute particles, or to a fine powder; to
pulverize; to triturate; to grind; as, to comminute chalk or bones;
to comminute food with the teeth. Pennant. Comminuted fracture. See
under Fracture.

COMMINUTION
Com`mi*nu"tion, n.

1. The act of reducing to a fine powder or to small particles;
pulverization; the state of being comminuted. Bentley.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: Fracture (of a bone) into a number of pieces. Dunglison.

3. Gradual diminution by the removal of small particles at a time; a
lessening; a wearing away.
Natural and necessary comminution of our lives. Johnson.

COMMISERABLE
Com*mis"er*a*ble, a.

Defn: Pitiable. [Obs.] Bacon.

COMMISERATE
Com*mis"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commiserated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commiserating.] Etym: [L. commiseratus, p. p. of commiserari to
commiserate; com- + miserari to pity. See Miserable.]

Defn: To feel sorrow, pain, or regret for; to pity.
Then must we those, who groan, beneath the weight Of age, disease, or
want, commiserate. Denham.
We should commiserate our mutual ignorance. Locke.

Syn.
 -- To pity; compassionate; lament; condole.

COMMISERATION
Com*mis`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [F. commis, fr. L. commiseratio a part of
an oration intended to exite compassion.]

Defn: The act of commiserating; sorrow for the wants, afflictions, or
distresses of another; pity; compassion.
And pluck commiseration of his state From brassy bosoms and rough
hearts of flint. Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Sympathy.

COMMISERATIVE
Com*mis"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Feeling or expressing commiseration. Todd.

COMMISERATOR
Com*mis"er*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who pities.

COMMISSARIAL
Com`mis*sa"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a commissary.

COMMISSARIAT
Com`mis*sa"ri*at, n. Etym: [F. commissariat.] (Mil.)
(a) The organized system by which armies and military posts are
supplied with food and daily necessaries.
(b) The body of officers charged with such service.

COMMISSARY
Com"mis*sa*ry, n.; pl. Commissaries. Etym: [LL. commissarius, fr. L.
commissus, p. p. of committere to commit, intrust to. See Commit.]

1. One to whom is committed some charge, duty, or office, by a
superior power; a commissioner.
Great Destiny, the Commissary of God. Donne.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: An officer on the bishop, who exercises ecclesiastical
jurisdiction in parts of the diocese at a distance from the residence
of the bishop. Ayliffe.

3. (Mil.)
(a) An officer having charge of a special sevice; as, the commissary
of musters.
(b) An officer whose business is to provide food for a body of troops
or a military post; -- officially called commissary of subsistence.
[U. S.]
Washington wrote to the President of Congress . . . urging the
appointment of a commissary general, a quartermaster general, a
commissary of musters, and a commissary of artillery. W. Irving
Commissary general, an officer in charge of some special department
of army service; as: (a) The officer in charge of the commissariat
and transport department, or of the ordinace store department. [Eng.]
(b) The commissary general of subsistence. [U. S.] -- Commissary
general of subsistence (Mil. U. S.), the head of the subsistence
department, who has charge of the purchase and issue of provisions
for the army.

COMMISSARYSHIP
Com"mis*sa*ry*ship, n.

Defn: The office or employment of a commissary. Ayliffe.

COMMISSION
Com*mis"sion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. commissio. See Commit.]

1. The act of committing, doing, or performing; the act of
perpetrating.
Every commission of sin introduces into the soul a certain degree of
hardness. South.

2. The act of intrusting; a charge; instructions as to how a trust
shall be executed.

3. The duty or employment intrusted to any person or persons; a
trust; a charge.

4. A formal written warrant or authority, granting certain powers or
privileges and authorizing or commanding the performance of certain
duties.
Let him see our commission. Shak.

5. A certificate conferring military or naval rank and authority; as,
a colonel's commission.

6. A company of persons joined in the performance of some duty or the
execution of some trust; as, the interstate commerce commission.
A commission was at once appointed to examine into the matter.
Prescott.

7. (Com.)
(a) The acting under authority of, or on account of, another.
(b) The thing to be done as agent for another; as, I have three
commissions for the city.
(c) The brokerage or allowance made to a factor or agent for
transacting business for another; as, a commission of ten per cent on
sales. See Del credere. Commission of array. (Eng. Hist.) See under
Array.
 -- Commission of bankrupty, a commission apointing and empowering
certain persons to examine into the facts relative to an alleged
bankrupty, and to secure the bankrupt's lands and effects for the
creditors.
 -- Commission of lunacy, a commission authoring and inquiry whether
a person is a lunatic or not.
 -- Commission merchant, one who buys or sells goods on commission,
as the agent of others, receiving a rate per cent as his
compensation.
 -- Commission, or Commissioned, officer (Mil.), one who has a
commission, in distingtion from a noncommossioned or warrant officer.
 -- Commission of the peace, a commission under the great seal,
constituting one or more persons justices of the peace. [Eng.] -- To
put a vessel into commission (Naut.), to equip and man a goverment
vessel, and send it out on service after it has been laid up; esp.,
the formal act of tacking command of a vessel for service, hoisting
the flag, reading the orders, etc.
 -- To put a vessel out of commission (Naut.), to detach the officers
and crew and retire it from active service, temporarily or
permanently.
 -- To put the great seal, or the Treasury, into commission, to place
it in the hands of a commissioner or commissioners during the
abeyance of the ordinary administration, as between the going out of
one lord keeper and accession of another. [Eng.] -- The United States
Christians Commission, an organization among the people of the North,
during the Civil War, which afforded material comforts to the Union
soldiers, and performed services of a religious character in the
field and in hospitals.
 -- The United States Sanitary Commission, an organization formed by
the people of the North to coöperate with and supplement the medical
department of the Union armies during the Civil War.

Syn.
 -- Charge; warrant; authority; mandate; office; trust; employment.

COMMISSION
Com*mis"sion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commissioned; p. pr & vb. n.
Commissioning.]

1. To give a commission to; to furnish with a commission; to empower
or authorize; as, to commission persons to perform certain acts; to
commission an officer.

2. To send out with a charge or commission.
A chosen band He first commissions to the Latian land. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To appoint; depute; authorize; empower; delegate; constitute;
ordain.

COMMISSIONAIRE
Com*mis`sion*aire", n. [F. commissionnaire. Cf. Commissioner.]

1. One intrusted with a commission, now only a small commission, as
an errand; esp., an attendant or subordinate employee in a public
office, hotel, or the like. The commissionaire familiar to European
travelers performs miscellaneous services as a light porter,
messenger, solicitor for hotels, etc.

2.  One of a corps of pensioned soldiers, as in London, employed as
doorkeepers, messengers, etc.

COMMISSIONAL; COMMISSIONARY
Com*mis"sion*al, Com*mis"sion*a*ry a.

Defn: Of pertaining to, or conferring, a commission; conferred by a
commission or warrant. [R.]
Delegate or commissionary authority. Bp. Hall.

COMMISSIONATE
Com*mis"sion*ate, v. t.

Defn: To commission [Obs.]

COMMISSIONER
Com*mis"sion*er, n.

1. A person who has a commission or warrant to perform some office,
or execute some bussiness, for the goverment, corporation, or person
employing him; as, a commissioner to take affidavits or to adjust
claims.
To another adress which requisted that a commission might be sent to
examine into the state of things in Ireland, William returned a
gracious answer, and desired the Commons to name the commissioners.
Macaulay.

2. An officer having charge of some department or bureau of the
public service.
Herbert was first commissioner of the Admiralty. Macaulay.
The commissioner of patents, the commissioner of the land office, the
commissioner of Indian affairs, are subotdinates of the secretary of
the interior. Bartlett.
Commissioner of deeds, an officer having authority to take
affidavits, depositions, acknowledgment of deeds, etc., for use in
the State by which he is appointed. [U. S.] -- County commissioners,
certain administrative officers in some of the States, invested by
local laws with various powers in reference to the roads,
courthouses, financial matters, etc., of the county. [U. S.]

COMMISSIONNAIRE
Com*mis`sion*naire" (; F. ), n. Etym: [F., fr. L. commissio.]

1. An agent or factor; a commission merchant.

2. One of a class of attendants, in some European cities, who perform
miscellaneous services for travelers.

COMMISSIONSHIP
Com*mis"sion*ship, n.

Defn: The office of commissioner. Sir W. Scott.

COMMISSIVE
Com*mis"sive, a.

Defn: Relating to commission; of the nature of, or involving,
commission. [R.]

COMMISSURAL
Com*mis"su*ral ( or ), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a commissure.

COMMISSURE
Com*mis"sure ( or ; 134-6), n. Etym: [L. commissura a joing together:
cf. F. commissure. See Commit.]

1. A joint, seam, or closure; the place where two bodies, or parts of
a body, meet and unite; an interstice, cleft, or juncture.

2. (Anat. & Zoöl.)
(a) The point of union between two parts, as the angles of the lips
or eyelids, the mandibles of a bird, etc.
(b) A collection of fibers connecting parts of the brain or spinal
marrow; a chiasma.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The line of junction or cohering face of two carpels, as in the
parsnip, caraway, etc.

COMMIT
Com*mit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commited; p. pr. & vb. n. Commiting.]
Etym: [L. committere, commissum, to connect, commit; com- + mittere
to send. See Mission.]

1. To give in trust; to put into charge or keeping; to intrust; to
consign; -- used with to, unto.
Commit thy way unto the Lord. Ps. xxxvii. 5.
Bid him farewell, commit him to the grave. Shak.

2. To put in charge of a jailor; to imprison.
These two were commited. Clarendon.

3. To do; to perperate, as a crime, sin, or fault.
Thou shalt not commit adultery. Ex. xx. 14.

4. To join a contest; to match; -- followed by with. [R.] Dr. H.
More.

5. To pledge or bind; to compromise, expose, or endanger by some
decisive act or preliminary step; -- often used reflexively; as, to
commit one's self to a certain course.
You might have satisfied every duty of political friendship, without
commiting the honor of your sovereign. Junius.
Any sudden assent to the proposal . . . might possibly be considered
as committing the faith of the United States. Marshall.

6. To confound. [An obsolete Latinism.]
Committing short and long [quantities]. Milton.
To commit a bill (Legislation), to refer or intrust it to a committee
or others, to be considered and reported.
 -- To commit to memory, or To commit, to learn by heart; to
memorize.

Syn.
 -- To Commit, Intrust, Consign. These words have in common the idea
of transferring from one's self to the care and custody of another.
Commit is the widest term, and may express only the general idea of
delivering into the charge of another; as, to commit a lawsuit to the
care of an attorney; or it may have the special sense of intrusting
with or without limitations, as to a superior power, or to a careful
servant, or of consigning, as to writing or paper, to the flames, or
to prison. To intrust denotes the act of committing to the exercise
of confidence or trust; as, to intrust a friend with the care of a
child, or with a secret. To consign is a more formal act, and regards
the thing transferred as placed chiefly or wholly out of one's
immediate control; as, to consign a pupil to the charge of his
instructor; to consign goods to an agent for sale; to consign a work
to the press.

COMMIT
Com"mit, v. i.

Defn: To sin; esp., to be incontinent. [Obs.]
Commit not with man's sworn spouse. Shak.

COMMITMENT
Com*mit"ment, n.

1. The act of commiting, or putting in charge, keeping, or trust;
consigment; esp., the act of commiting to prison.
They were glad to compound for his bare commitment to the Tower,
whence he was within few days enlarged. Clarendon.

2. A warrant or order for the imprisonment of a person; -- more
frequently termed a mittimus.

3. The act of referring or intrusting to a committee for
consideration and report; as, the commitment of a petition or a bill.

4. A doing, or preperation, in a bad sense, as of a crime or blunder;
commission.

5. The act of pledging or engaging; the act of exposing, endangering,
or compromising; also, the state of being pledged or engaged.
Hamilton.

COMMITTABLE
Com*mit"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being committed.

COMMITTAL
Com*mit"tal, n.

Defn: The act of commiting, or the state of being committed;
commitment.

COMMITTEE
Com*mit"tee, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. comité company, and LL. comitatus
jurisdiction or territory of a count, county, assize, army. The word
was apparently influenced by the verb commit, but not directly formed
from it. Cf. County.]

Defn: One or more persons elected or appointed, to whom any matter or
bussiness is referred, either by a legislative body, or by a court,
or by any collective body of men acting together. Commitee of the
whole [house], a committee, embracing all the members present, into
which a legislative or deliberative body sometimes resolves itself,
for the purpose of considering a particular measure under the
operation of different rules from those governing the general
legislative proceedings. The committee of the whole has its own
chairman, and reports its action in the form of recommendations.
 -- Standing committee. See under Standing.

COMMITTEE
Com`mit*tee", n. Etym: [From Commit, v. t.] (Law)

Defn: One to whom the charge of the person or estate of another, as
of a lunatic, is committed by suitable authority; a guardian.

COMMITTEEMAN
Com*mit"tee*man, n.

Defn: A member of a committee.

COMMITTER
Com*mit"ter, n.

1. One who commits; one who does or perpetrates. South.

2. A fornicator. [Obs.] T. Decker.

COMMITTIBLE
Com*mit"ti*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being committed; liable to be committed. [R.] Sir T.
Browne.

COMMIX
Com*mix", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Commixed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commixing.] Etym: [Pref. com+ + mix: cf. L. commixtus, p. p.of
commiscere. See Mix.]

Defn: To mix or mingle together; to blend.
The commixed impressions of all the colors do stir up and beget a
sensation of white. Sir I. Newton.
To commix With winds that sailors rail at. Shak.

COMMIXION
Com*mix"ion, n. Etym: [See Commix.]

Defn: Commixture. Shak.

COMMIXTION
Com*mix"tion, n. Etym: [L. commixtio.]

Defn: Commixture; mingling. [R.]
An exact commixtion of the ingredients. Boyle.

COMMIXTURE
Com*mix"ture, n. Etym: [L. commixtura.]

1. The act or process of mixing; the state of being mingled; the
blending of ingredients in one mass or compound.
In the commixture of anything that is more oily or sweet, such bodies
are least apt to putrefy. Bacon.

2. The mass formed by mingling different things; a compound; a
mixture. Bacon.

COMMODATE
Com"mo*date, n. Etym: [L. commodatum thing lent, loan.] (Scots Law)

Defn: A gratuitous loan.

COMMODE
Com*mode", n. Etym: [F. commode, fr. commode convenient, L. commodus;
com- + modus measure, mode. See Mode.]

1. A kind of headdress formerly worn by ladies, raising the hair and
fore part of the cap to a great height.
Or under high commodes, with looks erect. Granville.

2. A piece of furniture, so named according to temporary fashion; as:
(a) A cheat of drawers or a bureau. (b) A night stand with a
compartment for holding a chamber vessel. (c) A kind of close stool.
(d) A movable sink for a wash bowl, with closet.

COMMODIOUS
Com*mo"di*ous, a. Etym: [LL. commodiosus, fr. L. commodum
convenience, fr. commodus. See Commode.]

Defn: Adapted to its use or purpose, or to wants and necessities;
serviceable; spacious and convenient; roomy and comfortable; as, a
commodious house. "A commodious drab." Shak. "Commodious gold." Pope.
The haven was not commodious to winter in. Acts. xxvii. 12.

Syn.
 -- Convenient; suitable; fit; proper; advantageous; serviceable;
useful; spacious; comfortable.

COMMODIOUSLY
Com*mo"di*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a commodious manner.
To pass commodiously this life. Milton.

COMMODIOUSNESS
Com*mo"di*ous*ness, n.

Defn: State of being commodious; suitableness for its purpose;
convience; roominess.
Of cities, the greatness and riches increase according to the
commodiousness of their situation. Sir W. Temple.
The commodiousness of the harbor. Johnson.

COMMODITY
Com*mod"i*ty, n.; pl. Commodities. Etym: [F. commodit, fr. L.
commoditas. See Commode.]

1. Convenience; accommodation; profit; benefit; advantage; interest;
commodiousness. [Obs.]
Drawn by the commodity of a footpath. B. Jonson.
Men may seek their own commodity, yet if this were done with injury
to others, it was not to be suffered. Hooker.

2. That which affords convenience, advantage, or profit, especially
in commerce, including everything movable that is bought and sold
(except animals), -- goods, wares, merchandise, produce of land and
manufactures, etc.

3. A parcel or quantity of goods. [Obs.]
A commodity of brown paper and old ginger. Shak.

COMMODORE
Com"mo*dore`, n. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of commander, or Sp.
comendador a knight of a military order who holds a commandery; also
a superior of a monastery;, fr. LL. commendare to command. Cf.
Commend, Command, Commander.]

1. (U. S. Navy)

Defn: An officer who ranks next above a captain; sometimes, by
courtesy, the senior captain of a squadron. The rank of commodore
corresponds with that of brigadier general in the army.

2. (Brititsh Navy)

Defn: A captain commanding a squadron, or a division of a fleet, or
having the temporary rank of rear admiral.

3. A title given courtesy to the senior captain of a line of merchant
vessels, and also to the chief officer of a yachting or rowing club.

4. A familiar for the flagchip, or for the principal vessel of a
squadron or fleet.

COMMON
Com"mon, a. [Compar. Commoner; superl. Commonest.] Etym: [OE. commun,
comon, OF. comun, F. commun, fr. L. communis; com- + munis ready to
be of service; cf. Skr. mi to make fast, set up, build, Coth. gamains
common, G. gemein, and E. mean low, common. Cf. Immunity, Commune, n.
& v.]

1. Belonging or relating equally, or similary, to more than one; as,
you and I have a common interest in the property.
Though life and sense be common to men and brutes. Sir M. Hale.

2. Belonging to or shared by, affecting or serving, all the members
of a class, consired together; general; public; as, propertis common
to all plants; the common schools; the Book of Common Prayer.
Such actions as the common good requereth. Hocker.
The common enemy of man. Shak.

3. Often met with; usual; frequent; customary.
Grief more than common grief. Shak.

4. Not distinguished or exceptional; inconspicuous; ordinary;
plebeian; -- often in a depreciatory sense.
The honest, heart-felt enjoyment of common life. W. Irving.
This fact was infamous And ill beseeming any common man, Much more a
knight, a captain and a leader. Shak.
Above the vulgar flight of common souls. A. Murpphy.

5. Profane; polluted. [Obs.]
What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common. Acts x. 15.

6. Given to habits of lewdness; prostitute.
A dame who herself was common. L'Estrange.
Common bar (Law) Same as Blank bar, under Blank.
 -- Common barrator (Law), one who makes a business of instigating
litigation.
 -- Common Bench, a name sometimes given to the English Court of
Common Pleas.
 -- Common brawler (Law), one addicted to public brawling and
quarreling. See Brawler.
 -- Common carrier (Law), one who undertakes the office of carrying
(goods or persons) for hire. Such a carrier is bound to carry in all
cases when he has accommodation, and when his fixed price is
tendered, and he is liable for all losses and injuries to the goods,
except those which happen in consequence of the act of God, or of the
enemies of the country, or of the owner of the property himself.
 -- Common chord (Mus.), a chord consisting of the fundamental tone,
with its third and fifth.
 -- Common council, the representative (legislative) body, or the
lower branch of the representative body, of a city or other munisipal
corporation.
 -- Common crier, the crier of a town or city.
 -- Common divisor (Math.), a number or quantity that divides two or
more numbers or quantities without a remainder; a common measure.
 -- Common gender (Gram.), the gender comprising words that may be of
either the masculine or the feminine gender.
 -- Common law, a system of jurisprudence developing under the
guidance of the courts so as to apply a consistent and reasonable
rule to each litigated case. It may be superseded by statute, but
unless superseded it controls. Wharton.

Note: It is by others defined as the unwritten law (especially of
England), the law that receives its binding force from immemorial
usage and universal reception, as ascertained and expressed in the
judgments of the courts. This term is often used in contradistinction
from statute law. Many use it to designate a law common to the whole
country. It is also used to designate the whole body of English (or
other) law, as distinguished from its subdivisions, local, civil,
admiralty, equity, etc. See Law.
 -- Common lawyer, one versed in common law.
 -- Common lewdness (Law), the habitual performance of lewd acts in
public.
 -- Common multiple (Arith.) See under Multiple.
 -- Common noun (Gram.), the name of any one of a class of objects,
as distinguished from a proper noun (the name of a particular person
or thing).
 -- Common nuisance (Law), that which is deleterious to the health or
comfort or sense of decency of the community at large.
 -- Common pleas, one of the three superior courts of common law at
Westminster, presided over by a chief justice and four puisne judges.
Its jurisdiction is confined to civil matters. Courts bearing this
title exist in several of the United States, having, however, in some
cases, botth civil and criminal jurisdiction extending over the whole
State. In other States the jurisdiction of the common pleas is
limited to a county, and it is sometimes called a county court. Its
powers are generally defined by statute.
 -- Common prayer, the liturgy of the Church of England, or of the
Protestant Episcopal church of the United States, which all its
clergy are enjoined use. It is contained in the Book of Common
Prayer.
 -- Common school, a school maintained at the public expense, and
open to all.
 -- Common scold (Law), a woman addicted to scolding
indiscriminately, in public.
 -- Common seal, a seal adopted and used by a corporation.
 -- Common sense. (a) A supposed sense which was held to be the
common bond of all the others. [Obs.] Trench. (b) Sound judgment. See
under Sense.
 -- Common time (Mus.), that variety of time in which the measure
consists of two or of four equal portions.
 -- In common, equally with another, or with others; owned, shared,
or used, in community with others; affecting or affected equally.
 -- Out of the common, uncommon; extraordinary.
 -- Tenant in common, one holding real or personal property in common
with others, having distinct but undivided interests. See Joint
tenant, under Joint.
 -- To make common cause with, to join or ally one's self with.

Syn.
 -- General; public; popular; universal; frequent; ordinary;
customary; usual; familiar; habitual; vulgar; mean; trite; stale;
threadbare; commonplace. See Mutual, Ordinary, General.

COMMON
Com"mon, n.

1. The people; the community. [Obs.] "The weal o' the common." Shak.

2. An inclosed or uninclosed tract of ground for pleasure, for
pasturage, etc., the use of which belongs to the public; or to a
number of persons.

3. (Law)

Defn: The right of taking a profit in the land of another, in common
either with the owner or with other persons; -- so called from the
community of interest which arises between the claimant of the right
and the owner of the soil, or between the claimants and other
commoners entitled to the same right. Common appendant, a right
belonging to the owners or occupiers of arable land to put commonable
beasts upon the waste land in the manor where they dwell.
 -- Common appurtenant, a similar right applying to lands in other
manors, or extending to other beasts, besides those which are
generally commonable, as hogs.
 -- Common because of vicinage or neighborhood, the right of the
inhabitants of each of two townships, lying contiguous to each other,
which have usually intercommoned with one another, to let their
beasts stray into the other's fields.
 -- Common in gross or at large, a common annexed to a man's person,
being granted to him and his heirs by deed; or it may be claimed by
prescriptive right, as by a parson of a church or other corporation
sole. Blackstone.
 -- Common of estovers, the right of taking wood from another's
estate.
 -- Common of pasture, the right of feeding beasts on the land of
another. Burill.
 -- Common of piscary, the right of fishing in waters belonging to
another.
 -- Common of turbary, the right of digging turf upon the ground of
another.

COMMON
Com"mon, v. i.

1. To converse together; to discourse; to confer. [Obs.]
Embassadors were sent upon both parts, and divers means of entreaty
were commoned of. Grafton.

2. To participate. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

3. To have a joint right with others in common ground. Johnson.

4. To board together; to eat at a table in common.

COMMONABLE
Com"mon*a*ble, a.

1. Held in common. "Forests . . . and other commonable places."
Bacon.

2. Allowed to pasture on public commons.
Commonable beasts are either beasts of the plow, or such as manure
the ground. Blackstone.

COMMONAGE
Com"mon*age, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. communage.]

Defn: The right of pasturing on a common; the right of using anything
in common with others.
The claim of comonage . . . in most of the forests. Burke.

COMMONALTY
Com"mon*al*ty, n.; pl. Commonalties. Etym: [Of. communalté; F.
communauté, fr. communal. See Communal.]

1. The common people; those classes and conditions of people who are
below the rank of nobility; the commons.
The commonalty, like the nobility, are divided into several degrees.
Blackstone.
The ancient fare of our kings differed from that of the commonalty in
plenteousness only. Landon.

2. The majority or bulk of mankind. [Obs.] Hooker.

COMMONER
Com"mon*er, n.

1. One of the common people; one having no rank of nobility.
All below them [the peers] even their children, were commoners, and
in the eye law equal to each other. Hallam.

2. A member of the House of Commons.

3. One who has a joint right in common ground.
Much good land might be gained from forests . . . and from other
commonable places, so as always there be a due care taken that the
poor commoners have no injury. Bacon.

4. One sharing with another in anything. [Obs.] Fuller.

5. A student in the university of Oxford, Eng., who is not dependent
on any foundation for support, but pays all university charges; -- at
Cambrige called a pensioner.

6. A prostitute. [Obs.] Shak.

COMMONISH
Com"mon*ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat common; commonplace; vulgar.

COMMONITION
Com`mo*ni"tion, n. Etym: [L. commonitio. See Monition.]

Defn: Advice; warning; instruction. [Obs.] Bailey.

COMMONITIVE
Com*mon"i*tive, a.

Defn: Monitory. [Obs.]
Only commemorative and commonitive. Bp. Hall.

COMMONITORY
Com*mon"i*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. commonitorius.]

Defn: Calling to mind; giving admonition. [Obs.] Foxe.

COMMONLY
Com"mon*ly, adv.

1. Usually; generally; ordinarily; frequently; for the most part; as,
confirmed habits commonly continue trough life.

2. In common; familiary. [Obs.] Spenser.

COMMONNESS
Com"mon*ness, n.

1. State or quality of being common or usual; as, the commonness of
sunlight.

2. Triteness; meanness.

COMMONPLACE
Com"mon*place`, a.

Defn: Common; ordinary; trite; as, a commonplace person, or
observation.

COMMONPLACE
Com"mon*place`, n.

1. An idea or expression wanting originality or interest; a trite or
customary remark; a platitude.

2. A memorandum; something to be frequently consulted or referred to.
Whatever, in my reading, occurs concerning this our fellow creature,
I do never fail to set it down by way of commonplace. Swift.
Commonplace book, a book in which records are made of things to be
remembered.

COMMONPLACE
Com"mon*place`, v. t.

Defn: To enter in a commonplace book, or to reduce to general heads.
Felton.

COMMONPLACE
Com"mon*place`, v. i.

Defn: To utter commonplaces; to indulge in platitudes. [Obs.] Bacon.

COMMONPLACENESS
Com"mon*place`ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being commonplace; commonness.

COMMONS
Com"mons, n. pl.,

1. The mass of the people, as distinguished from the titled chasses
or nobility; the commonalty; the common people. [Eng.]
'T is like the commons, rude unpolished hinds, Could send such
message to their sovereign. Shak.
The word commons in its present ordinary signification comprises all
the people who are under the rank of peers. Blackstone.

2. The House of Commons, or lower house of the British Parliament,
consisting of representatives elected by the qualified voters of
counties, boroughs, and universities.
It is agreed that the Commons were no part of the great council till
some ages after the Conquest. Hume.

3. Provisions; food; fare, -- as that provided at a common table in
colleges and universities.
Their commons, though but coarse, were nothing scant. Dryden.

4. A club or association for boarding at a common table, as in a
college, the members sharing the expenses equally; as, to board in
commons.

5. A common; public pasture ground.
To shake his ears, and graze in commons. Shak.
Doctors' Commons, a place near St. Paul's Chuchyard in London where
the doctors of civil law used to common together, and where were the
ecclesiastical and admiralty courts and offices having jurisdiction
of marriage licenses, divorces, registration of wills, etc.
 -- To be on short commons, to have small allowance of food.
[Colloq.]

COMMON SENSE
Com"mon sense".

Defn: See Common sense, under Sense.

COMMONTY
Com"mon*ty, n. (Scots Law)

Defn: A common; a piece of land in which two or more persons have a
common right. Bell.

COMMONWEAL
Com"mon*weal", n. [Common + weal.]

Defn: Commonwealth.
Such a prince, So kind a father of the commonweal. Shak.

COMMONWEALTH
Com"mon*wealth`, n. Etym: [Common + wealth well-being.]

1. A state; a body politic consisting of a certain number of men,
united, by compact or tacit agreement, under one form of government
and system of laws.
The trappings of a monarchy would set up an ordinary commonwealth.
Milton.

Note: This term is applied to governments which are considered as
free or popular, but rarely, or improperly, to an absolute
government. The word signifies, strictly, the common well-being or
happiness; and hence, a form of government in which the general
welfare is regarded rather than the welfare of any class.

2. The whole body of people in a state; the public.

3. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: Specifically, the form of government established on the death
of Charles I., in 1649, which existed under Oliver Cromwell and his
son Richard, ending with the abdication of the latter in 1659.

Syn.
 -- State; realm; republic.

COMMORANCE
Com"mo*rance, n.

Defn: See Commorancy.

COMMORANCY
Com"mo*ran*cy, n.

1. (Law)

Defn: A dwelling or ordinary residence in a place; habitation.
Commorancy consists in usually lying there. Blackstone.

2. (Am. Law)

Defn: Residence temporarily, or for a short time.

COMMORANT
Com"mo*rant, n. Etym: [L. commorans, p. pr. of commorari to abide;
com- + morari to delay.]

1. (Law)

Defn: Ordinarily residing; inhabiting.
All freeholders within the precinct . . . and all persons commorant
therein. Blackstone.

2. (Am. Law)

Defn: Inhabiting or occupying temporarily.

COMMORANT
Com"mo*rant, n.

Defn: A resident. Bp. Hacket.

COMMORATION
Com`mo*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. commoratio.]

Defn: The act of staying or residing in a place. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

COMMORIENT
Com*mo"ri*ent, a. Etym: [L. commoriens, p. pr. of commoriri.]

Defn: Dying together or at the same time. [R.] Sir G. Buck.

COMMORSE
Com*morse", n. Etym: [L. commorsus, p. p. of commordere to bite
sharply.]

Defn: Remorse. [Obs.] "With sad commorse." Daniel.

COMMOTE
Com*mote", v. t. Etym: [See Commove.]

Defn: To commove; to disturb; to stir up. [R.]
Society being more or less commoted and made uncomfortable.
Hawthorne.

COMMOTION
Com*mo"tion, n. Etym: [L. commotio: cf. F. commotion. See Motion.]

1. Disturbed or violent motion; agitation.
[What] commotion in the winds! Shak.

2. A popular tumult; public disturbance; riot.
When ye shall hear of wars and commotions. Luke xxi. 9.

3. Agitation, perturbation, or disorder, of mind; heat; excitement.
"He could not debate anything without some commotion." Clarendon.

Syn.
 -- Excitement; agitation; perturbation; disturbance; tumult;
disorder; violence.

COMMOVE
Com*move", v. t. [inp. & p. p. Commoved; p. pr. & vb. n. Commoving.]
Etym: [L. commovere, commotum; com- + movere to move.]

1. To urge; to persuade; to incite. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To put in motion; to disturb; to unsettle. [R.]
Straight the sands, Commoved around, in gathering eddies play.
Thomson.

COMMUNAL
Com"mu*nal ( or ), a. Etym: [Cf. F. communal.]

Defn: Pertaining to a commune.

COMMUNALISM
Com"mu*nal*ism, n.

Defn: A French theory of government which holds that commune should
be a kind of independent state, and the national government a
confederation of such states, having only limited powers. It is
advocated by advanced French republicans; but it should not be
confounded with communism.

COMMUNALIST
Com"mu*nal*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. communaliste.]

Defn: An advocate of communalism.

COMMUNALISTIC
Com`mu*nal*is"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to communalism.

COMMUNE
Com*mune", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Communed; p. pr. & vb. n. Communing.]
Etym: [OF. communier, fr. L. communicare to communicate, fr. communis
common. See Common, and cf. Communicate.]

1. To converse together with sympathy and confidence; to interchange
sentiments or feelings; to take counsel.
I would commune with you of such things That want no ear but yours.
Shak.

2. To receive the communion; to partake of the eucharist or Lord's
supper.
To commune under both kinds. Bp. Burnet.
To commune with one's self or one's heart, to think; to reflect; to
meditate.

COMMUNE
Com"mune, n.

Defn: Communion; sympathetic intercourse or conversation between
friends.
For days of happy commune dead. Tennyson.

COMMUNE
Com"mune, n. Etym: [F., fr. commun. See Common.]

1. The commonalty; the common people. [Obs.] Chaucer.
In this struggle -- to use the technical words of the time -- of the
"commune", the general mass of the inhabitants, against the
"prudhommes" or "wiser" few. J. R. Green.

2. A small terrotorial district in France under the government of a
mayor and municipal council; also, the inhabitants, or the
government, of such a district. See Arrondissement.

3. Absolute municipal self-government. The Commune of Paris, or The
Commune (a) The government established in Paris (1792-94) by a
usurpation of supreme power on the part of representatives chosen by
the communes; the period of its continuance is known as the "Reign of
Terror." (b) The revolutionary government, modeled on the commune of
1792, which the communists, so called, attempted to establish in
1871.

COMMUNICABILITY
Com*mu`ni*ca*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. communicabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being communicable; capability of being
imparted.

COMMUNICABLE
Com*mu"ni*ca*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. communicable, LL. communicabilis.]

1. Capable of being communicated, or imparted; as, a communicable
disease; communicable knowledge.

2. Communicative; free-speaking. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
 -- Com*mu"ni*ca*ble*ness, n.
 -- Com*mu"ni*ca"bly, adv.

COMMUNICANT
Com*mu"ni*cant, n. Etym: [L. communicans, p. pr.]

1. One who partakes of, or is entitled to partake of, the sacrament
of the Lord's supper; a church member.
A never-failing monthly communicant. Atterbury.

2. One who communicates. Foxe.

COMMUNICANT
Com*mu"ni*cant, a.

Defn: Communicating. [R.] Coleridge.

COMMUNICATE
Com*mu"ni*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Communicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Communicating.] Etym: [L. communicatus, p. p. of communicare to
communicate, fr. communis common. See Commune, v. i.]

1. To share in common; to participate in. [Obs.]
To thousands that communicate our loss. B. Jonson

2. To impart; to convey; as, to communicate a disease or a sensation;
to communicate motion by means of a crank.
Where God is worshiped, there he communicates his blessings and holy
influences. Jer. Taylor.

3. To make known; to recount; to give; to impart; as, to communicate
information to any one.

4. To administer the communion to. [R.]
She [the church] . . . may communicate him. Jer. Taylor.

Note: This verb was formerly followed by with before the person
receiving, but now usually takes to after it.
He communicated those thoughts only with the Lord Digby. Clarendon.

Syn.
 -- To impart; bestow; confer; reveal; disclose; tell; announce;
recount; make known.
 -- To Communicate, Impart, Reveal. Communicate is the more general
term, and denotes the allowing of others to partake or enjoy in
common with ourselves. Impart is more specific. It is giving to
others a part of what we had held as our own, or making them our
partners; as, to impart our feelings; to impart of our property, etc.
Hence there is something more intimate in imparting intelligence than
in communicating it. To reveal is to disclose something hidden or
concealed; as, to reveal a secret.

COMMUNICATE
Com*mu"ni*cate, v. i.

1. To share or participate; to possess or enjoy in common; to have
sympathy.
Ye did communicate with my affliction. Philip. iv. 4.

2. To give alms, sympathy, or aid.
To do good and to communicate forget not. Heb. xiii. 16.

3. To have intercourse or to be the means of intercourse; as, to
communicate with another on business; to be connected; as, a
communicating artery.
Subjects suffered to communicate and to have intercourse of traffic.
Hakluyt.
The whole body is nothing but a system of such canals, which all
communicate with one another. Arbutnot.

4. To partake of the Lord's supper; to commune.
The primitive Christians communicated every day. Jer. Taylor.

COMMUNICATION
Com*mu`ni*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. communicatio.]

1. The act or fact of communicating; as, communication of smallpox;
communication of a secret.

2. Intercourse by words, letters, or messages; interchange of
thoughts or opinions, by conference or other means; conference;
correspondence.
Argument . . . and friendly communication. Shak.

3. Association; company.
Evil communications corrupt manners. 1 Cor. xv. 33.

4. Means of communicating; means of passing from place to place; a
connecting passage; connection.
The Euxine Sea is conveniently situated for trade, by the
communication it has both with Asia and Europe. Arbuthnot.

5. That which is communicated or imparted; intelligence; news; a
verbal or written message.

6. Participation in the Lord's supper. Bp. Pearson.

7. (Rhet.)

Defn: A trope, by which a speaker assumes that his hearer is a
partner in his sentiments, and says we, instead of I or you. Beattie.

Syn.
 -- Correspondence; conference; intercourse.

COMMUNICATIVE
Com*mu"ni*ca*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. Communicatif, LL.
communicativus.]

Defn: Inclined to communicate; ready to impart to others.
Determine, for the future, to be less communicative. Swift.

COMMUNICATIVENESS
Com*mu"ni*ca*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being communicative. Norris.

COMMUNICATOR
Com*mu"ni*ca`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who communicates. Boyle.

COMMUNICATORY
Com*mu"ni*ca"to*ry, a. Etym: [LL. communicatorius.]

Defn: Imparting knowledge or information.
Canonical and communicatory letters. Barrow.

COMMUNION
Com*mun"ion, n. Etym: [L. communio: cf. F. communion. See Common.]

1. The act of sharing; community; participation. "This communion of
goods." Blackstone.

2. Intercourse between two or more persons; esp., intimate
association and intercourse implying sympathy and confidence;
interchange of thoughts, purposes, etc.; agreement; fellowship; as,
the communion of saints.
We are naturally induced to seek communion and fellowship with
others. Hooker.
What communion hath light with darkness 2 Cor. vi. 14.
Bare communion with a good church can never alone make a good man.
South.

3. A body of Christians having one common faith and discipline; as,
the Presbyterian communion.

4. The sacrament of the eucharist; the celebration of the Lord's
supper; the act of partaking of the sacrament; as, to go to
communion; to partake of the communion. Close communion. See under
Close, a.
 -- Communion elements, the bread and wine used in the celebration of
the Lord's supper.
 -- Communion service, the celebration of the Lord's supper, or the
office or service therefor.
 -- Communion table, the table upon which the elements are placed at
the celebration of the Lord's supper.
 -- Communion in both kinds, participation in both the bread and wine
by all communicants.
 -- Communion in one kind, participation in but one element, as in
the Roman Catholic Church, where the laity partake of the bread only.

Syn.
 -- Share; participation; fellowship; converse; intercourse; unity;
concord; agreement.

COMMUNISM
Com"mu*nism, n. Etym: [F. communisme, fr. commun common.]

Defn: A scheme of equalizing the social conditions of life;
specifically, a scheme which contemplates the abolition of
inequalities in the possession of property, as by distributing all
wealth equally to all, or by holding all wealth in common for the
equal use and advantage of all.

Note: At different times, and in different countries, various schemes
pertaining to socialism in government and the conditions of domestic
life, as well as in the distribution of wealth, have been called
communism.

COMMUNIST
Com"mu*nist, n. Etym: [F. communiste.]

1. An advocate for the theory or practice of communism.

2. A supporter of the commune of Paris.

COMMUNISTIC
Com`mu*nis"tic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to communism or communists; as, communistic
theories.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Living or having their nests in common, as certain birds.

COMMUNITY
Com*mu"ni*ty, n.; pl. Communities. Etym: [L. communitas: cf. OF.
communité. Cf. Commonalty, and see Common.]

1. Common possession or enjoyment; participation; as, a community of
goods.
The original community of all things. Locke.
An unreserved community of thought and feeling. W. Irwing.

2. A body of people having common rights, privileges, or interests,
or living in the same place under the same laws and regulations; as,
a community of monks. Hence a number of animals living in a common
home or with some apparent association of interests.
Creatures that in communities exist. Wordsworth.

3. Society at large; a commonwealth or state; a body politic; the
public, or people in general.
Burdens upon the poorer classes of the community. Hallam.

Note: In this sense, the term should be used with the definite
article; as, the interests of the community.

4. Common character; likeness. [R.]
The essential community of nature between organic growth and
inorganic growth. H. Spencer.

5. Commonness; frequency. [Obs.]
Eyes . . . sick and blunted with community. Shak.

COMMUTABILITY
Com*mu`ta*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being commutable.

COMMUTABLE
Com*mut"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. commutabilis.]

Defn: Capable of being commuted or interchanged.
The predicate and subject are not commutable. Whately.

COMMUTABLENESS
Com*mut"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being commutable; interchangeableness.

COMMUTATION
Com`mu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. commutatio: cf. F. commutation.]

1. A passing from one state to another; change; alteration; mutation.
[R.]
So great is the commutation that the soul then hated only that which
now only it loves. South.

2. The act of giving one thing for another; barter; exchange. [Obs.]
The use of money is . . . that of saving the commutation of more
bulky commodities. Arbuthnot.

3. (Law)

Defn: The change of a penalty or punishment by the pardoning power of
the State; as, the commutation of a sentence of death to banishment
or imprisonment.
Suits are allowable in the spiritual courts for money agreed to be
given as a commutation for penance. Blackstone.

4. A substitution, as of a less thing for a greater, esp. a
substitution of one form of payment for another, or one payment for
many, or a specific sum of money for conditional payments or
allowances; as, commutation of tithes; commutation of fares;
commutation of copyright; commutation of rations. Angle of
commutation (Astron.), the difference of the geocentric longitudes of
the sun and a planet.
 -- Commutation of tithes, the substitution of a regular payment,
chargeable to the land, for the annual tithes in kind.
 -- Commutation ticket, a ticket, as for transportation, which is the
evidence of a contract for service at a reduced rate. See 2d Commute,
2.

COMMUTATION TICKET
Com`mu*ta"tion tick"et.

Defn: A ticket for transportation at a reduced rate in consideration
of some special circumstance, as increase of travel; specif., a
ticket for a certain number of, or for daily, trips between
neighboring places at a reduced rate, such as are commonly used by
those doing business in a city and living in a suburb. Commutation
tickets are excepted from the prohibition against special rates
contained in the Interstate Commerce Act of Feb. 4, 1887 (24 Stat.
379), and in 145 U. S. 263 it was held that party tickets were also
excepted as being "obviously within the commuting principle."

COMMUTATIVE
Com*mut"a*tive, a. Etym: [CF. F. commutatif.]

Defn: Relative to exchange; interchangeable; reciprocal.
 -- Com*mut"a*tive"ly, adv.
Rich traders, from their success, are presumed . . . to have
cultivated an habitual regard to commutative justice. Burke.

COMMUTATOR
Com"mu*ta`tor, n. (Elec.)

Defn: A piece of apparatus used for reversing the direction of an
electrical current; an attachment to certain electrical machines, by
means of which alternating currents are made to be continuous or to
have the same direction.

COMMUTE
Com*mute", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commuted; p. pr. & vb. n. Commuting.]
Etym: [L. commutare, -mutatum; com- + mutare to change. See
Mutation.]

Defn: To exchange; to put or substitute something else in place of,
as a smaller penalty, obligation, or payment, for a greater, or a
single thing for an aggregate; hence; to lessen; to diminish; as, to
commute a sentence of death to one of imprisonment for life; to
commute tithes; to commute charges for fares.
The sounds water and fire, being once annexed to those two elements,
it was certainly more natural to call beings participating of the
first "watery", and the last "fiery", than to commute the terms, and
call them by the reverse. J. Harris
The utmost that could be obtained was that her sentence should be
commuted from burning to beheading. Macaulay.

COMMUTE
Com*mute", v. i.

1. To obtain or bargain for exemption or substitution; to effect a
commutation.
He . . . thinks it unlawful to commute, and that he is bound to pay
his vow in kind. Jer. Taylor.

2. To pay, or arrange to pay, in gross instead of part by part; as,
to commute for a year's travel over a route.

COMMUTER
Com*mut"er, n.

Defn: One who commutes; especially, one who commutes in traveling.

COMMUTUAL
Com*mu"tu*al, a. Etym: [Pref. com- + mutual.]

Defn: Mutual; reciprocal; united. [R.]
There, with commutual zeal, we both had strove. Pope.

COMOSE
Co"mose ( or ), a. Etym: [L. comosus hairy, from coma hair.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing a tuft of soft hairs or down, as the seeds of milkweed.
Gray.

COMPACT
Com*pact", p. p. & a Etym: [L. compactus, p. p. of compingere to join
or unite; com- + pangere to fasten, fix: cf. F. compacte. See Pact.]

1. Joined or held together; leagued; confederated. [Obs.] "Compact
with her that's gone." Shak.
A pipe of seven reeds, compact with wax together. Peacham.

2. Composed or made; -- with of. [Poetic]
A wandering fire, Compact of unctuous vapor. Milton.

3. Closely or firmly united, as the particles of solid bodies; firm;
close; solid; dense.
Glass, crystal, gems, and other compact bodies. Sir I. Newton.

4. Brief; close; pithy; not diffuse; not verbose; as, a compact
discourse.

Syn.
 -- Firm; close; solid; dense; pithy; sententious.

COMPACT
Com*pact", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Compacted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Compacting.]

1. To thrust, drive, or press closely together; to join firmly; to
consolidate; to make close; -- as the parts which compose a body.
Now the bright sun compacts the precious stone. Blackstone.

2. To unite or connect firmly, as in a system.
The whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which
every joint supplieth. Eph. iv. 16.

COMPACT
Com"pact, n. Etym: [L. compactum, fr. compacisci, p. p. compactus, to
make an agreement with; com- + pacisci to make an agreement. See
Pact.]

Defn: An agreement between parties; a covenant or contract.
The law of nations depends on mutual compacts, treaties, leagues,
etc. Blackstone.
Wedlock is described as the indissoluble compact. Macaulay.
The federal constitution has been styled a compact between the States
by which it was ratified. Wharton.

Syn.
 -- See Covenant.

COMPACTED
Com*pact"ed, a.

Defn: Compact; pressed close; concentrated; firmly united.

COMPACTEDLY
Com*pact"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a compact manner.

COMPACTEDNESS
Com*pact"ed*ness, n.

Defn: A state of being compact.

COMPACTER
Com*pact"er, n.

Defn: One who makes a compact.

COMPACTIBLE
Com*pact"i*ble, a.

Defn: That may be compacted.

COMPACTION
Com*pac"tion, n. Etym: [L. compactio.]

Defn: The act of making compact, or the state of being compact.
[Obs.] Bacon.

COMPACTLY
Com*pact"ly, adv.

Defn: In a compact manner; with close union of parts; densely;
tersely.

COMPACTNESS
Com*pact"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being compact; close union of parts;
density.

COMPACTURE
Com*pac"ture, n. Etym: [L. compactura.]

Defn: Close union or connection of parts; manner of joining;
construction. [Obs.] "With comely compass and compacture strong."
Spenser.

COMPAGES
Com*pa"ges, n. sing & pl. Etym: [L., fr. compingere. See Compact, v.
t.]

Defn: A system or structure of many parts united.
A regular compages of pipes and vessels. Ray.

COMPAGINATE
Com*pag"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. compaginare, compaginatum.]

Defn: To unite or hold together; as, the side pieces compaginate the
frame. [Obs.] W. Montagu.

COMPAGINATION
Com*pag`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. compaginatio.]

Defn: Union of parts; structure. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

COMPANABLE
Com"pa*na*ble, a. Etym: [OF. compaignable.]

Defn: Companionable; sociable. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COMPANATOR
Com"pa*na`tor, n. Etym: [LL. companatores, pl.] (Eccl.)

Defn: Same as Impanator.

COMPANIABLE
Com*pan"i*a*ble, a.

Defn: Companionable; sociable. [Obs.] Bacon.

COMPANION
Com*pan"ion, n. Etym: [F. compagnon, OF. compaing, fr. as assumed LL.
companio (cf. companium fellowship, a mess), fr. L. com- + panis
bread. See Pantry.]

1. One who accompanies or is in company with another for a longer or
shorter period, either from choice or casually; one who is much in
the company of, or is associated with, another or others; an
associate; a comrade; a consort; a partner.
The companions of his fall. Milton.
The companion of fools shall smart for it. Prov. xiii. 20 (Rev. Ver.
)
Here are your sons again; and I must lose Two of the sweetest
companions in the world. Shak.
A companion is one with whom we share our bread; a messmate. Trench.

2. A knight of the lowest rank in certain orders; as, a companion of
the Bath.

3. A fellow; -- in contempt. [Obs.] Shak.

4. Etym: [Cf. OSp. compaña an outhouse, office.] (Naut.)
(a) A skylight on an upper deck with frames and sashes of various
shapes, to admit light to a cabin or lower deck.
(b) A wooden hood or penthouse covering the companion way; a
companion hatch. Companion hatch (Naut.), a wooden porch over the
entrance or staircase of the cabin.
 -- Companion ladder (Naut.), the ladder by which officers ascend to,
or descend from, the quarter-deck. Totten.
 -- Companion way (Naut.), a staircase leading to the cabin.
 -- Knights companions, in certain honorary orders, the members of
the lowest grades as distinguished from knights commanders, knights
grand cross, and the like.

Syn.
 -- Associate; comrade; mate; compeer; partner; ally; confederate;
coadjutor; accomplice.

COMPANION
Com*pan"ion, v. t.

1. To be a companion to; to attend on; to accompany. [R.] Ruskin.

2. To qualify as a companion; to make equal. [Obs.]
Companion me with my mistress. Shak.

COMPANIONABLE
Com*pan"ion*a*ble, a.

Defn: Fitted to be a companion; fit for good fellowship; agreeable;
sociable. "Each companionable guest." Mallett. "Companionable wit."
Clarendon.
 -- Com*pan"ion*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Com*pan"ion*a*bly, adv.

COMPANIONLESS
Com*pan"ion*less, a.

Defn: Without a companion.

COMPANIONSHIP
Com*pan"ion*ship, n.

Defn: Fellowship; association; the act or fact of keeping company
with any one. Shak.
He never seemed to avail himself of my sympathy other than by mere
companionship. W. Irwing

COMPANY
Com"pa*ny, n.; pl. Companies. Etym: [F. compagnie, fr. OF. compaing.
See Companion.]

1. The state of being a companion or companions; the act of
accompaying; fellowship; companionship; society; friendly
intercourse. Shak.
Evil company doth corrupt good manners. 1 Cor. xv. 33. (Rev. Ver. ).
Brethren, farewell: your company along I will not wish. Milton.

2. A companion or companions.
To thee and thy company I bid A hearty welcome. Shak.

3. An assemblage or association of persons, either permanent or
transient.
Thou shalt meet a company of prophets. 1 Sam. x. 5.

4. Guests or visitors, in distinction from the members of a family;
as, to invite company to dine.

5. Society, in general; people assembled for social intercourse.
Nature has left every man a capacity of being agreeable, though not
of shining in company. Swift.

6. An association of persons for the purpose of carrying on some
enterprise or business; a corporation; a firm; as, the East India
Company; an insurance company; a joint-stock company.

7. Partners in a firm whose names are not mentioned in its style or
title; -- often abbreviated in writing; as, Hottinguer & Co.

8. (Mil.)

Defn: A subdivision of a regiment of troops under the command of a
captain, numbering in the United States (full strength) 100 men.

9. (Naut.)

Defn: The crew of a ship, including the officers; as, a whole ship's
company.

10. The body of actors employed in a theater or in the production of
a play. To keep company with. See under Keep, v. t.

Syn.
 -- Assemblage; assembly; society; group; assembly; society; group;
circle; crowd; troop; crew; gang; corporation; association;
fraternity; guild; partnership; copartnery; union; club; party;
gathering.

COMPANY
Com"pa*ny, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Companied; p. pr. & vb. n.
Companying.]

Defn: To accompany or go with; to be companion to. [Obs.]

COMPANY
Com"pa*ny, v. i.

1. To associate.
Men which have companied with us all the time. Acts i. 21.

2. To be a gay companion. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. To have sexual commerce. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

COMPARABLE
Com"pa*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. comparabilis: cf. F. comparable.]

Defn: Capable of being compared; worthy of comparison.
There is no blessing of life comparable to the enjoyment of a
discreet and virtuous friend. Addison.
-- Com"pa*ra*ble*ness, n.
 -- Com"pa*ra*bly, adv.

COMPARATE
Com"pa*rate, n. Etym: [L. comparatum, fr. comparatus, p. p. of
comparare. See 1st Compare.] (Logic)

Defn: One of two things compared together.

COMPARATION
Com`pa*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. comparatio. See Compare to get.]

Defn: A making ready; provision. [Obs.]

COMPARATIVE
Com*par"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. comparativus: cf. F. comparatif.]

1. Of or pertaining to comparison. "The comparative faculty."
Granvill.

2. Proceeding from, or by the method of, comparison; as, the
comparative anatomy.

3. Estimated by comparison; relative; not positive or absolute, as
compared with another thing or state.
The recurrence of comparative warmth and cold. Whewell.
The bubble, by reason of its comparative levity to the fluid that
incloses it, would necessarily ascend to the top. Bentley.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: Expressing a degree greater or less than the positive degree of
the quality denoted by an adjective or adverb. The comparative degree
is formed from the positive by the use of -er, more, or less; as,
brighter, more bright, or less bright. Comparative sciences, those
which are based on a comprehensive comparison of the range of objects
or facts in any branch or department, and which aim to study out and
treat of the fundamental laws or systems of relation pervading them;
as, comparative anatomy, comparative physiology, comparative
philology.

COMPARATIVE
Com*par"a*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: The comparative degree of adjectives and adverbs; also, the
form by which the comparative degree is expressed; as, stronger,
wiser, weaker, wore stormy, less windy, are all comparatives.
In comparatives is expressed a relation of two; as in superlatives
there is a relation of many.

2. An equal; a rival; a compeer. [Obs.]
Gerard ever was His full comparative. Beau. & Fl.

3. One who makes comparisons; one who affects wit. [Obs.] "Every
beardless vain comparative." Shak.

COMPARATIVELY
Com*par"a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: According to estimate made by comparison; relatively; not
positively or absolutely.
With but comparatively few exceptions. Prescott.

COMPARATOR
Com"pa*ra`tor ( or ), n. Etym: [L., a comparater.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument or machine for comparing anything to be measured
with a standard measure; -- applied especially to a machine for
comparing standards of length.

COMPARE
Com*pare", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Compared; p. pr. & vb. n. Comparing.]
Etym: [L.comparare, fr. compar like or equal to another; com- + par
equal: cf. F. comparer. See Pair, Peer an equal, and cf. Compeer.]

1. To examine the character or qualities of, as of two or more
persons or things, for the purpose of discovering their resemblances
or differences; to bring into comparison; to regard with
discriminating attention.
Compare dead happiness with living woe. Shak.
The place he found beyond expression bright, Compared with aught on
earth. Milton.
Compare our faces and be judge yourself. Shak.
To compare great things with small. Milton.

2. To represent as similar, for the purpose of illustration; to
liken.
Solon compared the people unto the sea, and orators and counselors to
the winds; for that the sea would be calm and quiet if the winds did
not trouble it. Bacon.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: To inflect according to the degrees of comparison; to state
positive, comparative, and superlative forms of; as, most adjectives
of one syllable are compared by affixing "-er" and "-est" to the
positive form; as, black, blacker, blackest; those of more than one
syllable are usually compared by prefixing "more" and "most", or
"less" and "least", to the positive; as, beautiful, more beautiful,
most beautiful.

Syn.
 -- To Compare, Compare with, Compare to. Things are compared with
each other in order to learn their relative value or excellence. Thus
we compare Cicero with Demosthenes, for the sake of deciding which
was the greater orator. One thing is compared to another because of a
real or fanciful likeness or similarity which exists between them.
Thus it has been common to compare the eloquence of Demosthenes to a
thunderbolt, on account of its force, and the eloquence of Cicero to
a conflagration, on account of its splendor. Burke compares the parks
of London to the lungs of the human body.

COMPARE
Com*pare", v. i.

1. To be like or equal; to admit, or be worthy of, comparison; as,
his later work does not compare with his earlier.
I should compare with him in excellence. Shak.

2. To vie; to assume a likeness or equality.
Shall pack horses . . . compare with Cæsars Shak.

COMPARE
Com*pare", n.

1. Comparison. [Archaic]
His mighty champion, strong beyond compare. Milton.
Their small galleys may not hold compare With our tall ships. Waller.

2. Illustration by comprison; simile. [Obs.]
Rhymes full of protest, of oath, and big compare. Shak.
Beyond compare. See Beyond comparison, under Comparison.

COMPARE
Com*pare", v. t. Etym: [L. comparare to prepare, procure; com- +
parare. See Prepare, Parade.]

Defn: To get; to procure; to obtain; to acquire [Obs.]
To fill his bags, and richesse to compare. Spenser.

COMPARER
Com*par"er, n.

Defn: One who compares.

COMPARISON
Com*par"i*son ( or ), n. Etym: [F. comparaison, L. comparatio. See
1st Compare.]

1. The act of comparing; an examination of two or more objects with
the view of discovering the resemblances or differences; relative
estimate.
As sharp legal practitioners, no class of human beings can bear
comparison with them. Macaulay.
The miracles of our Lord and those of the Old Testament afford many
interesting points of comparison. Trench.

2. The state of being compared; a relative estimate; also, a state,
quality, or relation, admitting of being compared; as, to bring a
thing into comparison with another; there is no comparison between
them.

3. That to which, or with which, a thing is compared, as being equal
or like; illustration; similitude.
Whereto shall we liken the kingdom of God Or with what comparison
shall we compare it Mark iv. 30.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: The modification, by inflection or otherwise, which the
adjective and adverb undergo to denote degrees of quality or
quantity; as, little, less, least, are examples of comparison.

5. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure by which one person or thing is compared to another,
or the two are considered with regard to some property or quality,
which is common to them both; e.g., the lake sparkled like a jewel.

6. (Phren.)

Defn: The faculty of the reflective group which is supposed to
perceive resemblances and contrasts. Beyond comparison, so far
superior as to have no likeness, or so as to make comparison
needless.
 -- In comparison of, In comparison with, as compared with; in
proportion to. [Archaic] "So miserably unpeopled in comparison of
what it once was." Addison.
 -- Comparison of hands (Law), a mode of proving or disproving the
genuineness of a signature or writing by comparing it with another
proved or admitted to be genuine, in order to ascertain whether both
were written by the same person. Bouvier. Burrill.

COMPARISON
Com*par"i*son, v. t.

Defn: To compare. [Obs.] Wyclif.

COMPART
Com*part", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Comparted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Comparting.] Etym: [L. compartiri; com- + partiri, partire to share,
pars, partis, part, share: cf. OF. compartir. See Part, v. t.]

Defn: To divide; to mark out into parts or subdivisions. [R.]
The crystal surface is comparted all In niches verged with rubies.
Glover.

COMPARTITION
Com`par*ti"tion, n. Etym: [LL. compartitio.]

Defn: The act of dividing into parts or compartments; division; also,
a division or compartment. [Obs.]
Their temples . . . needed no compartitions. Sir H. Wotton.

COMPARTMENT
Com*part"ment, n. Etym: [F. compartiment, OF. compartir to divide.
See Compart.]

1. One of the parts into which an inclosed portion of space is
divided, as by partitions, or lines; as, the compartments of a
cabinet, a house, or a garden.
In the midst was placed a large compartment composed of grotesque
work. Carew.

2. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: One of the sections into which the hold of a ship is divided by
water-tight bulkheads.

COMPARTNER
Com*part"ner, n.

Defn: See Copartner. [Obs.]

COMPASS
Com"pass, n. Etym: [F. compas, fr. LL. compassus circle, prop., a
stepping together; com- + passus pace, step. See Pace, Pass.]

1. A passing round; circuit; circuitous course.
They fetched a compass of seven day's journey. 2 Kings iii. 9.
This day I breathed first; time is come round, And where I did begin,
there shall I end; My life is run his compass. Shak.

2. An inclosing limit; boundary; circumference; as, within the
compass of an encircling wall.

3. An inclosed space; an area; extent.
Their wisdom . . . lies in a very narrow compass. Addison.

4. Extent; reach; sweep; capacity; sphere; as, the compass of his
eye; the compass of imagination.
The compass of his argument. Wodsworth.

5. Moderate bounds, limits of truth; moderation; due limits; -- used
with within.
In two hundred years before (I speak within compass), no such
commission had been executed. Sir J. Davies.

6. (Mus.)

Defn: The range of notes, or tones, within the capacity of a voice or
instument.
You would sound me from my lowest note to the top of my compass.
Shak.

7. An instrument for determining directions upon the carth's surface
by means of a magnetized bar or needle turning freely upon a pivot
and pinting in a northerly and southerly direction.
He that firat discovered the use of the compass did more for the
supplying and increase of useful commodities than those who built
workhouses. Locke.

8. A pair of compasses. [R.]
To fix one foot of their compass wherever they please. Swift.

9. A circle; a continent. [Obs.]
The tryne compas [the threefold world containing earth, sea, and
heaven. Skeat.] Chaucer.
Azimuth compass. See under Azimuth.
 -- Beam compass. See under Beam.
 -- Compass card, the eircular card attached to the needles of a
mariner's compass, on which are marked the thirty-two points or
rhumbs.
 -- Compass dial, a small pocket compass fitted with a sundial to
tell the hour of the day.
 -- Compass plane (Carp.), a plane, convex in the direction of its
length on the under side, for smoothing the concave faces of curved
woodwork.
 -- Compass plant, Compass flower (Bot.), a plant of the American
prairies (Silphium laciniatum), not unlike a small sunflower;
rosinweed. Its lower and root leaves are vertical, and on the
prairies are disposed to present their edges north and south.
Its leaves are turned to the north as true as the magnet: This is the
compass flower. Longefellow.
-- Compass saw, a saw with a narrow blade, which will cut in a curve;
-- called also fret saw and keyhole saw.
 -- Compass timber (Shipbuilding), curved or crooked timber.
 -- Compass window (Arch.), a circular bay window or oriel window. It
has two or more magnetic needles permanently attached to a card,
which moves freely upon a pivot, and is read with reference to a mark
on the box representing the ship's head. The card is divided into
thirty-two points, called also rhumbs, and the glass-covered box or
bowl containing it is suspended in gimbals within the binnacle, in
order to preserve its horizontal position.
 -- Surveyor's compass, an instrument used in surveying for measuring
horizontal angles. See Circumferentor.
 -- Variation compass, a compass of delicate construction, used in
observations on the variations of the needle.
 -- To fetch a compass, to make a circuit.

COMPASS
Com"pass, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Compassed; p. pr. & vb. n. Compassing.]
Etym: [F. compasser, LL. compassare.]

1. To go about or entirely round; to make the circuit of.
Ye shall compass the city seven times. Josh. vi. 4.
We the globe can compass soon. Shak.

2. To inclose on all sides; to surround; to encircle; to envior; to
invest; to besiege; -- used with about, round, around, and round
about.
With terrors and with clamors compassed round. Milton.
Now all the blessings
Of a glad cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round.uke xix.
43.

3. To reach round; to circumvent; to get within one's power; to
obtain; to accomplish.
If I can chek my erring love, I will: If not, to compass her I'll use
my skill. Shak.
How can you to compass your designs Denham.

4. To curve; to bend into a circular form. [Obs. except in carpentry
and shipbuilding.] Shak.

5. (Law)

Defn: To purpose; to intend; to imagine; to plot.
Compassing and imagining the death of the king are synonymous terms;
compassing signifying the purpose or design of the mind or will, and
not, as in common speech, the carrying such design to effect.
Blackstone.

COMPASSABLE
Com"pass*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being compassed or accomplished. Burke.

COMPASSED
Com"passed, a.

Defn: Rounded; arched. [Obs.]
She came . . . into the compassed window. Shak.

COMPASSES
Com"pass*es, n., pl.

Defn: An instrument for describing circles, measuring figures, etc.,
consisting of two, or (rarely) more, pointed branches, or legs,
usually joined at the top by a rivet on which they move.

Note: The compasses for drawing circles have adjustable pen points,
pencil points, etc.; those used for measuring without adjustable
points are generally called dividers. See Dividers. Bow compasses.
See Bow-compass.
 -- Caliber compasses, Caliper compasses. See Calipers.
 -- Proportional, Triangular, etc., compasses. See under
Proportional, etc.

COMPASSING
Com"pass*ing, a. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: Curved; bent; as, compassing timbers.

COMPASSION
Com*pas"sion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. compassio, fr. compati to have
compassion; com- + pati to bear, suffer. See Patient.]

Defn: Literally, suffering with another; a sensation of sorrow
excited by the distress or misfortunes of another; pity;
commiseration.
Womanly igenuity set to work by womanly compassion. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Pity; sympathy; commiseration; fellow-feeling; mercy; condolence.
See Pity.

COMPASSION
Com*pas"sion, v. t.

Defn: To pity. [Obs.] Shak.

COMPASSIONABLE
Com*pas"sion*a*ble, a.

Defn: Deserving compassion or pity; pitiable. [R.] Barrow.

COMPASSIONATE
Com*pas"sion*ate, a.

1. Having a temper or disposition to pity; sympathetic; merciful.
There never was any heart truly great and generous, that was not also
tender and compassionate. South.

2. Complaining; inviting pity; pitiable. [R.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- Sympathizing; tender; merciful; pitiful.

COMPASSIONATE
Com*pas"sion*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Compassionated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Compassionating.]

Defn: To have compassion for; to pity; to commiserate; to sympathize
with.
Compassionates my pains, and pities me. Addison.

COMPASSIONATELY
Com*pas"sion*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: In a compassionate manner; mercifully. Clarendon.

COMPASSIONATENESS
Com*pas"sion*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being compassionate.

COMPASSLESS
Com"pass*less, a.

Defn: Having no compass. Knowles.

COMPATERNITY
Com`pa*ter"ni*ty, n. Etym: [LL. compaternitas, fr. compater
godfather; com- + pater father.]

Defn: The relation of a godfather to a person. [Obs.]
The relation of gossipred or compaternity by the cannon law is a
spiritual affinity. Sir J. Da

COMPATIBILITY
Com*pat`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. compatibilit.]

Defn: The quality or power of being compatible or congruous;
congruity; as, a compatibility of tempers; a compatibility of
properties.

COMPATIBLE
Com*pat"i*ble, a. Etym: [F., fr. LL.compatibilis, fr. L. compati. See
Compassion.]

Defn: Capable of existing in harmony; congruous; suitable; not
repugnant; -- usually followed by with.
Our poets have joined together such qualities as are by nature the
most compatible. Broome.

Syn.
 -- Consistent; suitable; agreeable; accordant.

COMPATIBLENESS
Com*pat"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Compatibility; consistency; fitness; agreement.

COMPATIBLY
Com*pat"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In a compatible manner.

COMPATIENT
Com*pa"tient, a. Etym: [L. compatients, p. pr. of compati. See
Compassion.]

Defn: Suffering or enduring together. [Obs.] Sir G. Buck.

COMPATRIOT
Com*pa"tri*ot, n. Etym: [F. compatriote, LL. compatriotus; com- +
patriota a native. See Patriot, and cf. Copatriot.]

Defn: One of the same country, and having like interests and feeling.
The distrust with which they felt themselves to be regarded by their
compatriots in America. Palfrey.

COMPATRIOT
Com*pa"tri*ot, a.

Defn: Of the same country; having a common sentiment of patriotism.
She [Britain] rears to freedom an undaunted race, Compatriot,
zealous, hospitable, kind. Thomson.

COMPATRIOTISM
Com*pa"tri*ot*ism, n.

Defn: The condition of being compatriots.

COMPEAR
Com*pear", v. i. Etym: [F. comparior, L. compar; com- + par to
appear.]

1. To appear. [Obs.]

2. (Law)

Defn: To appear in court personally or by attorney. [Scot]

COMPEER
Com*peer", Etym: [OE. comper, through French fr. L. compar; com- +
par equal. See Peer an equal, and cf. 1st Compare.]

Defn: An equal, as in rank, age, prowess, etc.; a companion; a
comrade; a mate.
And him thus answer 'd soon his bold compeer. Milton.

COMPEER
Com*peer", v. t.

Defn: To be equal with; to match. [R.]
In my rights, By me invested, he compeers the best. Shak.

COMPEER; COMPEIR
Com*peer", Com*peir", v. i.

Defn: See Conpear.

COMPEL
Com*pel", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Compelled; p. pr. & vb. n Compelling.]
Etym: [L. compellere, compilstum, to drive together, to compel, urge;
com- + pellere to drive: cf. OF. compellir. See Pulse.]

1. To drive or urge with force, or irresistibly; to force; to
constrain; to oblige; to necessitate, either by physical or moral
force.
Wolsey . . . compelled the people to pay up the whole subsidy at
once. Hallam.
And they compel one Simon . . . to bear his cross. Mark xv. 21.

2. To take by force or violence; to seize; to exact; to extort. [R.]
Commissions, which compel from each The sixth part of his substance.
Shak.

3. To force to yield; to overpower; to subjugate.
Easy sleep their weary limbs compelled. Dryden.
I compel all creatures to my will. Tennyson.

4. To gather or unite in a crowd or company. [A Latinism] "In one
troop compelled." Dryden.

5. To call forth; to summon. [Obs.] Chapman.
She had this knight from far compelled. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- To force; constrain; oblige; necessitate; coerce. See Coerce.

COMPEL
Com*pel", v. i.

Defn: To make one yield or submit. "If she can not entreat, I can not
compel." Shak.

COMPELLABLE
Com*pel"la*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being compelled or constrained. Blackstone.

COMPELLABLY
Com*pel"la*bly, adv.

Defn: By compulsion.

COMPELLATION
Com`pel*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. compellatio, fr. compellare to accost,
fr. compellere. See Compel.]

Defn: Style of address or salutation; an appellation. "Metaphorical
compellations." Milton.
He useth this endearing compellation, "My little children." Bp.
Beveridge.
The peculiar compellation of the kings in France is by "Sire," which
is nothing else but father. Sir W. Temple.

COMPELLATIVE
Com*pel"la*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: The name by which a person is addressed; an appellative.

COMPELLATORY
Com*pel"la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving to compel; compulsory. [R.]

COMPELLER
Com*pel"ler, n.

Defn: One who compels or constrains.

COMPEND
Com"pend, n.

Defn: A compendium; an epitome; a summary.
A compend and recapitulation of the Mosaical law. Bp. Burnet.

COMPENDIARIOUS
Com*pen`di*a"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. compendiarius.]

Defn: Short; compendious. [Obs.] Bailey.

COMPENDIATE
Com*pen"di*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. compendiatus, p. p. of compendiare to
shorten, fr. compendium.]

Defn: To sum or collect together. [Obs.] Bp. King.

COMPENDIOUS
Com*pen"di*ous, a. Etym: [L. compendiosus.]

Defn: Containing the substance oe general principles of a subject or
work in a narrow compass; abridged; summarized.
More compendious and exeditious ways. Woodward.
Three things be required in the oration of a man having authority --
that it be compendious, sententious, and delectable. Sir T. Elyot.

Syn.
 -- Short; summary; abridged; condensed; comprehensive; succinct;
brief; concise.

COMPENDIOUSLY
Com*pen"di*ous*ly, dv.

Defn: In a compendious manner.
Compendiously exressed by the word chaos. Bentley.

COMPENDIOUSNESS
Com*pen"di*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being compendious.

COMPENDIUM
Com*pen"di*um, n.; pl. E. Compendiums, L. Compendia. Etym: [L.
compendium that which is wieghed, saved, or shortened, a short way,
fr. compendere to weigh; com- + pendere to weigh. See Pension, and
cf. Compend.]

Defn: A brief compilation or composition, containing the principal
heads, or general principles, of a larger work or system; an
abridgment; an epitome; a compend; a condensed summary.
A short system or compendium of a sience. I. Watts.

Syn.
 -- See Abridgment.

COMPENSATE
Com"pen*sate ( or ; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Compensated; p. pr. &
vb. n. Compensating.] Etym: [L. compensatus, p. p. of compensare,
prop., to weigh several things with one another, to balance with one
another, verb intens. fr. compendere. See Compendum.]

1. To make equal return to; to remunerate; to recompence; to give an
equivalent to; to requite suitably; as, to compensate a laborer for
his work, or a merchant for his losses.

2. To be equivalent in value or effect to; to counterbalance; to make
up for; to make amends for.
The length of the night and the dews thereof do compensate the heat
of the day. Bacon.
The pleasures of life do not compensate the miseries. Prior.

Syn.
 -- To recompense; remunerate; indemnify; reward; requite;
counterbalance.

COMPENSATE
Com"pen*sate, v. i.

Defn: To make amends; to supply an equivalent; -- followed by for;
as, nothing can compensate for the loss of reputation.

COMPENSATION
Com`pen*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. compensatio a weighing, a balancing of
accounts.]

1. The act or principle of compensating. Emerson.

2. That which constitutes, or is regarded as, an equivalent; that
which makes good the lack or variation of something else; that which
compensates for loss or privation; amends; remuneration; recompense.
The parliament which dissolved the monastic foundations . . .
vouchsafed not a word toward securing the slightest compensation to
the dispossessed owners. Hallam.
No pecuniary compensation can possibly reward them. Burke.

3. (Law)
(a) The extinction of debts of which two persons are reciprocally
debtors by the credits of which they are reciprocally creditors; the
payment of a debt by a credit of equal amount; a set-off. Bouvier.
Wharton.
(b) A recompense or reward for some loss or service.
(c) An equivalent stipulated for in contracts for the sale of real
eatate, in which it is customary to privide that errors in
description, etc., shall not avoid, but shall be the subject of
compensation. Compensation balance, or Compensated balance, a kind of
balance wheel for a timepiece. The rim is usually made of two
different expansibility under changes of temperature, so arranged as
to counteract each other and preserve uniformity of movement.
 -- Compensation pendulum. See Pendulum.

Syn.
 -- Recompense; reward; indemnification; consideration; requital;
satisfaction; set-off.

COMPENSATIVE
Com*pen"sa*tive, a. Etym: [LL. compensativus.]

Defn: Affording compensation.

COMPENSATIVE
Com*pen"sa*tive, n.

Defn: Compensation. [R.] Lamb.

COMPENSATOR
Com"pen*sa`tor, n.

1. One who, or that which, compensates; -- a name applied to various
mechanical devices.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: An iron plate or magnet placed near the compass on iron vessels
to neutralize the effect of the ship's attraction on the needle.

COMPENSATORY
Com*pen"sa*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving for compensation; making amends. Jer. Taylor.

COMPENSE
Com*pense", v. t. Etym: [F. compenser. See Compensate.]

Defn: To compensate. [Obs.] Bacon.

COMPERENDINATE
Com`pe*ren"di*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. comperendinatus, p. p. of
comperendinare to defer (the time of trial.)]

Defn: To delay. Bailey.

COMPESCE
Com*pesce", v. t. Etym: [L. compescere.]

Defn: To hold in check; to restrain. [R.] Carlyle.

COMPETE
Com*pete", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Competed; p. pr. & vb. n. Competing.]
Etym: [L. completere, competitum; com- + petere to seek. See
Petition.]

Defn: To contend emulously; to seek or strive for the same thing,
position, or reward for which another is striving; to contend in
rivalry, as for a prize or in business; as, tradesmen compete with
one another.
The rival statesmen, with eyes fixed on America, were all the while
competing for European alliances. Bancroft.

COMPETENCE; COMPETENCY
Com"pe*tence, Com"pe*ten*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. compétence, from L.
competentia agreement.]

1. The state of being competent; fitness; ability; adequacy; power.
The loan demonstrates, in regard to instrumental resources, the
competency of this kingdom to the assertion of the common cause.
Burke.
To make them act zealously is not in the competence of law. Burke.

2. Property or means sufficient for the necessaries and conveniences
of life; sifficiency without excess.
Reason's whole pleasure, all the joys of sense, Lie in three words --
health, peace, and competence. Pope.
Superfluity comes sooner by white hairs, but competency lives longer.
Shak.

3. (Law)
(a) Legal capacity or qualifications; fitness; as, the competency of
a witness or of a evidence.
(b) Right or authority; legal power or capacity to take cognizance of
a cause; as, the competence of a judge or court. Kent.

COMPETENT
Com"pe*tent (; 94), a. Etym: [F. compétent, p. pr. of compéter to be
in the competency of, LL. competere to strive after together, to
agree with; hence, to be fit. See Compete.]

1. Answering to all requirements; adeqouate; sufficient; suitable;
capable; legally qualified; fit. "A competent knowledge of the
world." Arrerbury. "Competent age." Grafton. "Competent statesmen."
Palfrey. /"A competent witness." Bouvier.

2. Rightfully or properly belonging; incident; -- followed by to.
[Rare, except in legal usage.]
That is the privillege of the infinite Author of things, . . . but is
not competent to any finite being. Locke.

Syn.
 -- See Qualified.

COMPETENTLY
Com"pe*tent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a competent manner; adequately; suitably.

COMPETIBLE
Com*pet"i*ble, a.

Defn: Compatible; suitable; consistent. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

COMPETITION
Com`pe*ti"tion, n. Etym: [L. competitio. See Conpete.]

Defn: The act of seeking, or endevearing to gain, what another is
endeavoring to gain at the same time; common strife for the same
objects; strife for superiority; emulous contest; rivalry, as for
approbation, for a prize, or as where two or more persons are engaged
in the same business and each seeking patronage; -- followed by for
before the object sought, and with before the person or thing
competed with.
Competition to the crown there is none, nor can be. Bacon.
A portrait, with which one of Titian's could not come in
competititon. Dryden.
There is no competition but for the second place. Dryden.
Where competition does not act at all there is complete monopoly. A.
T. Hadley.

Syn.
 -- Emulation; rivalry; rivalship; contest; struggle; contention;
opposition; jealousy. See Emulation.

COMPETITIVE
Com*pet"i*tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to competition; producing competition;
competitory; as, a competitive examination.

COMPETITOR
Com*pet"i*tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. compétiteur.]

1. One who seeks what another seeks, or claims what another claims;
one who competes; a rival.
And can not brook competitors in love. Shak.

2. An associate; a confederate. [Obs.]
Every hour more competitors Flock to their aid, and still their power
increaseth. Shak.

COMPETITORY
Com*pet"i*to*ry, a.

Defn: Acting in competition; competing; rival.

COMPETITRESS
Com*pet"i*tress, n.

Defn: A woman who competes.

COMPETITRIX
Com*pet"i*trix, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A competitress.

COMPILATION
Com"pi*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. compilatio: cf. F. compilation.]

1. The act or process of compiling or gathering together from various
sources.

2. That which is compiled; especially, a book or document composed of
materials gathering from other books or documents.
His [Goldsmith's] compilations are widely distinguished from the
compilations of ordinary bookmakers. Macaulay.

COMPILATOR
Com"pi*la`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Compiler. [Obs.]

COMPILE
Com*pile", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Compiled; p. pr. & vb. n. Compiling.]
Etym: [F. compiler, fr.L. compilare to plunder, pillage; com- +
pilare to plunder. See Pill, v. t., Pillage.]

1. To put together; to construct; to build. [Obs.]
Before that Merlin died, he did intend A brazen wall in compass to
compile. Spenser.

2. To contain or comprise. [Obs.]
Which these six books compile. Spenser.

3. To put together in a new form out of materials already existing;
esp., to put together or compose out of materials from other books or
documents.
He [Goldsmith] compiled for the use of schools a History of Rome.
Macaulay.

4. To write; to compose. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple.

COMPILEMENT
Com*pile"ment, n.

Defn: Compilation. [R.]

COMPILER
Com*pil"er, n. Etym: [OE. compiluor; cf. OF. compileor, fr. L.
compilator.]

Defn: One who compiles; esp., one who makes books by compilation.

COMPINGE
Com*pinge", v. t. Etym: [L. compingere.]

Defn: To compress; to shut up. [Obs.] Burton.

COMPLACENCE; COMPLACENCY
Com*pla"cence, Com*pla"cen*cy, n. Etym: [LL. complacentia: cf. F.
complaisance. See Complacent, and cf. Complaisance.]

1. Calm contentment; satisfaction; gratification.
The inward complacence we find in acting reasonably and virtuously.
Atterbury.
Others proclaim the infirmities of a great man with satisfaction and
complacency, if they discover none of the like in themselves.
Addison.

2. The cause of pleasure or joy. "O thou, my sole complacence."
Milton.

3. The manifestation of contentment or satisfaction; good nature;
kindness; civility; affability.
Complacency, and truth, and manly sweetness, Dwell ever on his
tongue, and smooth his thoughts. Addison.
With mean complacence ne'er betray your trust. Pope.

COMPLACENT
Com*pla"cent, a. Etym: [L. complacens very pleasing, p. pr. of
complacere; com- + placere to please: cf. F. complaisant. See Please
and cf. Complaisant.]

Defn: Self-satisfied; contented; kindly; as, a complacent temper; a
complacent smile.
They look up with a sort of complacent awe . . . to kings. Burke.

COMPLACENTIAL
Com`pla*cen"tial, a.

Defn: Marked by, or causing, complacence. [Obs.] "Complacential
love." Baxter.

COMPLACENTLY
Com*pla"cent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a complacent manner.

COMPLAIN
Com*plain", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Complained; p. pr. & vb. n.
Complaining.] Etym: [F. complaindre, LL. complangere; com- + L.
plangere to strike, beat, to beat the breast or head as a sign of
grief, to lament. See Plaint.]

1. To give utterance to expression of grief, pain, censure, regret.
etc.; to lament; to murmur; to find fault; -- commonly used with of.
Also, to creak or squeak, as a timber or wheel.
O lose of sight, of three I most complain! Milton.

2. To make a formal accusation; to make a charge.
Now, Master Shallow, you'll complain of me to the king Shak.

Syn.
 -- To repine; grumble; deplore; bewail; grieve; mourn; regret;
murmur.

COMPLAIN
Com*plain", v. t.

Defn: To lament; to bewail. [Obs.]
They might the grievance inwardly complain. Daniel.
By chaste Lucrece's soul that late complain'd Her wrongs to us. Shak.

COMPLAINABLE
Com*plain"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be complained of. [R.] Feltham.

COMPLAINANT
Com*plain"ant, n. Etym: [F. complaignant, p. pr. of complaindre.]

1. One who makes complaint.
Eager complainants of the dispute. Collier.

2. (Law)
(a) One who commences a legal process by a complaint.
(b) The party suing in equity, answering to the plaintiff at common
law.
He shall forfeit one moiety to the use of the town, and the other
moiety to the use of the complainant. Statutes of Mass.

COMPLAINER
Com*plain"er, n.

Defn: One who complains or laments; one who finds fault; a murmurer.
Beattie.
Speechless complainer, I will learn thy thought. Shak.

COMPLAINT
Com*plaint", n. Etym: [F. complainte. See Complain.]

1. Expression of grief, regret, pain, censure, or resentment;
lamentation; murmuring; accusation; fault-finding.
I poured out my complaint before him. Ps. cxlii. 2.
Grievous complaints of you. Shak.

2. Cause or subject of complaint or murmuring.
The poverty of the clergy in England hath been the complaint of all
who wish well to the church. Swift.

3. An ailment or disease of the body.
One in a complaint of his bowels. Arbuthnot.

4. (Law)

Defn: A formal allegation or charge against a party made or presented
to the appropriate court or officer, as for a wrong done or a crime
committed (in the latter case, generally under oath); an information;
accusation; the initial bill in proceedings in equity.

Syn.
 -- Lamentation; murmuring; sorrow; grief; disease; illness;
disorder; malady; ailment.

COMPLAINTFUL
Com*plaint"ful, a.

Defn: Full of complaint. [Obs.]

COMPLAISANCE
Com"plai*sance`, n. Etym: [F. complaisance. See Complaisant, and cf.
Complacence.]

Defn: Disposition to please or oblige; obliging compliance with the
wishes of others; a deportment indicative of a desire to please;
courtesy; civility.
These [ladies] . . . are by the just complaisance and gallantry of
our nation the most powerful part of our people. Addison.
They strive with their own hearts and keep them down, In complaisance
to all the fools in town. Young.

Syn.
 -- Civility; courtesy; urbanity; suavity; affability; good breeding.

COMPLAISANT
Com"plai*sant, a. Etym: [F. complaisant, p. pr. of complaire to
acquiesce as a favor, fr. L. complacere. See Complacent.]

Defn: Desirous to please; courteous; obliging; compliant; as, a
complaisant gentleman.
There are to whom my satire seems too bold: Scarce to wise Peter
complaisant enough. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Obliging; courteous; affable; gracious; civil; polite; well-bred.
See Obliging.
 -- Com"plai*sant`ly, adv.
 -- Com"plai*sant`ness, n.

COMPLANAR
Com*pla"nar, a.

Defn: See Coplanar.

COMPLANATE
Com"pla*nate ( or , a. Etym: [L. complanatus, p. p. of complanare to
make plane. See Plane, v. t.]

Defn: Flattened to a level surface. [R.]

COMPLANATE
Com"pla*nate, v. t.

Defn: To make level. [R.]

COMPLECTED
Com*plect"ed, a.

Defn: Complexioned. [Low, New Eng.]

COMPLEMENT
Com"ple*ment, n. Etym: [L. complementun: cf. F. complément. See
Complete, v. t., and cf. Compliment.]

1. That which fills up or completes; the quantity or number required
to fill a thing or make it complete.

2. That which is required to supply a deficiency, or to complete a
symmetrical whole.
History is the complement of poetry. Sir J. Stephen.

3. Full quantity, number, or amount; a complete set; completeness.
To exceed his complement and number appointed him which was one
hundred and twenty persons. Hakluyt.

4. (Math.)

Defn: A second quantity added to a given quantity to make equal to a
third given quantity.

5. Something added for ornamentation; an accessory. [Obs.]
Without vain art or curious complements. Spenser.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: The whole working force of a vessel.

7. (Mus.)

Defn: The interval wanting to complete the octave; -- the fourth is
the complement of the fifth, the sixth of the third.

8. A compliment. [Obs.] Shak. Arithmetical compliment of a logarithm.
See under Logarithm.
 -- Arithmetical complement of a number (Math.), the difference
between that number and the next higher power of 10; as, 4 is the
complement of 6, and 16 of 84.
 -- Complement of an arc or angle (Geom.), the difference between
that arc or angle and 90º.
 -- Complement of a parallelogram. (Math.) See Gnomon.
 -- In her complement (Her.), said of the moon when represented as
full.

COMPLEMENT
Com"ple*ment, v. t.

1. To supply a lack; to supplement. [R.]

2. To compliment. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

COMPLEMENTAL
Com`ple*men"tal, a.

1. Supplying, or tending to supply, a deficiency; fully completing.
"Complemental ceremony." Prynne.

2. Complimentary; courteous. [Obs.] Shak. Complemental air
(Physiol.), the air (averaging 100 cubic inches) which can be drawn
into the lungs in addition to the tidal air, by the deepest possible
inspiration.
 -- Complemental males (Zoöl.), peculiar small males living
parasitically on the ordinary hermaphrodite individuals of certain
barnacles.

COMPLEMENTARY
Com`ple*men"ta"ry, a.

Defn: Serving to fill out or to complete; as, complementary numbers.
Complementary colors. See under Color.
 -- Complementary angles (Math.), two angles whose sum is 90°.

COMPLEMENTARY
Com`ple*men"ta*ry, n. Etym: [See Complimentary.]

Defn: One skilled in compliments. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

COMPLETE
Com"plete", a. Etym: [L. completus, p. p. of complere to fill. See
Full, a., and cf. Comply, Compline.]

1. Filled up; with no part or element lacking; free from deficienty;
entire; perfect; consummate. "Complete perfections." Milton.
Ye are complete in him. Col. ii. 10.
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel Revesit'st thus the
glimpses of the moon. Shak.

2. Finished; ended; concluded; completed; as, the edifice is
complete.
This course of vanity almost complete. Prior.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Having all the parts or organs which belong to it or to the
typical form; having calyx, corolla, stamens, and pistil.

Syn.
 -- See Whole.

COMPLETE
Com*plete", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Completed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Completing.]

Defn: To bring to a state in which there is no deficiency; to
perfect; to consummate; to accomplish; to fulfill; to finish; as, to
complete a task, or a poem; to complete a course of education.
Bred only and completed to the taste Of lustful appetence. Milton.
And, to complete her bliss, a fool for mate. Pope.

Syn.
 -- To perform; execute; terminate; conclude; finish; end; fill up;
achieve; realize; effect; consummate; accomplish; effectuate;
fulfill; bring to pass.

COMPLETELY
Com*plete"ly, adv.

Defn: In a complete manner; fully.

COMPLETEMENT
Com*plete"ment, n.

Defn: Act of completing or perfecting; completion. [Obs.] Dryden.

COMPLETENESS
Com*plete"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being complete.

COMPLETION
Com*ple"tion, n. Etym: [L. completio a filling, a fulfillment.]

1. The act or process of making complete; the getting through to the
end; as, the completion of an undertaking, an education, a service.
The completion of some repairs. Prescott.

2. State of being complete; fulfillment; accomplishment; realization.
Predictions receiving their completion in Christ. South.

COMPLETIVE
Com*ple"tive, a. Etym: [L. completivus: cf. F. compl.]

Defn: Making complete. [R.] J. Harris.

COMPLETORY
Com*ple"to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving to fulfill.
Completory of ancient presignifications. Barrow.

COMPLETORY
Com"ple*to"ry ( or ), n. Etym: [L. completorium.] (Eccl.)

Defn: Same as Compline.

COMPLEX
Com"plex, a. Etym: [L. complexus, p. p. of complecti to entwine
around, comprise; com- + plectere to twist, akin to plicare to fold.
See Plait, n.]

1. Composed of two or more parts; composite; not simple; as, a
complex being; a complex idea.
Ideas thus made up of several simple ones put together, I call
complex; such as beauty, gratitude, a man, an army, the universe.
Locke.

2. Involving many parts; complicated; intricate.
When the actual motions of the heavens are calculated in the best
possible way, the process is difficult and complex. Whewell.
Complex fraction. See Fraction.
 -- Complex number (Math.), in the theory of numbers, an expression
of the form a + bsq. root-1, when a and b are ordinary integers.

Syn.
 -- See Intricate.

COMPLEX
Com"plex, n. Etym: [L. complexus]

Defn: Assemblage of related things; colletion; complication.
This parable of the wedding supper comprehends in it the whole
complex of all the blessings and privileges exhibited by the gospel.
South.
Complex of lines (Geom.), all the possible straight lines in space
being considered, the entire system of lines which satisfy a single
relation constitute a complex; as, all the lines which meet a given
curve make up a complex. The lines which satisfy two relations
constitute a congruency of lines; as, the entire system of lines,
each one of which meets two given surfaces, is a congruency.

COMPLEXED
Com*plexed", a.

Defn: Complex, complicated. [Obs.] "Complexed significations." Sir T.
Browne.

COMPLEXEDNESS
Com*plex"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being complex or involved;
complication.
The complexedness of these moral ideas. Locke.

COMPLEXION
Com*plex"ion, n. Etym: [F. complexion, fr. L. complexio. See Complex,
a.]

1. The state of being complex; complexity. [Obs.]
Though the terms of propositions may be complex, yet . . . it is
proprly called a simple syllogism, since the complexion does not
belong to the syllogistic form of it. I. Watts.

2. A combination; a complex. [Archaic]
This paragraph is . . . a complexion of sophisms. Coleridge.

3. The bodily constitution; the temperament; habitude, or natural
disposition; character; nature. [Obs.]
If his complexion incline him to melancholy. Milton.
It is the complexion of them all to leave the dam. Shak.

4. The color or hue of the skin, esp. of the face.
Tall was her stature, her complexion dark. Wordswoorth.
Between the pale complexion of true love, And the red glow of scron
and proud disdain. Shak.

5. The general appearance or aspect; as, the complexion of the sky;
the complexion of the news.

COMPLEXIONAL
Com*plex"ion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to constitutional complexion.
A moral rather than a complexional timidity. Burke.

COMPLEXIONALLY
Com*plex"ion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Constitutionally. [R.]
Though corruptible, not complexionally vicious. Burke.

COMPLEXIONARY
Com*plex"ion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the complexion, or to the care of it. Jer.
Taylor.

COMPLEXIONED
Com*plex"ioned, a.

Defn: Having (such) a complexion; -- used in composition; as, a dark-
complexioned or a ruddy-complexioned person.
A flower is the best-complexioned grass, as a pearl is the best-
colored clay. Fuller.

COMPLEXITY
Com*plex"i*ty, n.; pl. Complexities. Etym: [Cf. F. complexité.]

1. The state of being complex; intricacy; entanglement.
The objects of society are of the greatest possible complexity.
Burke.

2. That which is complex; intricacy; complication.
Many-corridored complexities Of Arthur's palace. Tennyson.

COMPLEXLY
Com"plex`ly, adv.

Defn: In a complex manner; not simply.

COMPLEXNESS
Com"plex`ness, n.

Defn: The state of being complex; complexity. A. Smith.

COMPLEXUS
Com*plex"us, n. Etym: [L., an embracing.]

Defn: A complex; an aggregate of parts; a complication.

COMPLIABLE
Com*pli"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of bending or yielding; apt to yield; compliant.
Another compliable mind. Milton.
The Jews . . . had made their religion compliable, and accemodated to
their passions. Jortin.

COMPLIANCE
Com*pli"ance, n. Etym: [See Comply.]

1. The act of complying; a yielding; as to a desire, demand, or
proposal; concession; submission.
What compliances will remove dissension Swift.
Ready compliance with the wishes of his people. Macaulay.

2. A disposition to yield to others; complaisance.
A man of few words and of great compliance. Clarendon.

Syn.
 -- Concession; submission; consent; obedience; performance;
execution; acqquiescence; assent.

COMPLIANCY
Com*pli"an*cy, n.

Defn: Compliance; disposition to yield to others. Goldsmith.

COMPLIANT
Com*pli"ant, a.

Defn: Yielding; bending; pliant; submissive. "The compliant boughs."
Milton.

COMPLIANTLY
Com*pli"ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a compliant manner.

COMPLICACY
Com"pli*ca*cy, n.

Defn: A state of being complicate or intricate. Mitford.

COMPLICANT
Com"pli*cant, a. Etym: [L. complicans, p. pr.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Overlapping, as the elytra of certain beetles.

COMPLICATE
Com"pli*cate, a. Etym: [L. complicatus, p. p. of complicare to fold
together. See Complex.]

1. Composed of two or more parts united; complex; complicated;
involved.
How poor, how rich, how abject, how august, How complicate, how
wonderful is man! Young.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Folded together, or upon itself, with the fold running
lengthwise.

COMPLICATE
Com"pli*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Complicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Complicating.]

Defn: To fold or twist together; to combine intricately; to make
complex; to combine or associate so as to make intricate or
difficult.
Nor can his complicated sinews fail. Young.
Avarice and luxury very often become one complicated principle of
action. Addison.
When the disease is complicated with other diseases. Arbuthnot.

COMPLICATELY
Com"pli*cate*ly, adv.

Defn: In a complex manner.

COMPLICATENESS
Com"pli*cate*ness, n.

Defn: Complexity. Sir M. Hale.

COMPLICATION
Com`pli*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. compliasion: cf. F. complication.]

1. The act or process of complicating; the state of being
complicated; intricate or confused relation of parts; entaglement;
complexity.
A complication of diseases. Macaulay.
Through and beyond these dark complications of the present, the New
England founders looked to the great necessities of future times.
Palfrey.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A disease or diseases, or adventitious circumstances or
conditions, coexistent with and modifying a primary disease, but not
necessarily connected with it.

COMPLICE
Com"plice, n.; pl. Complices. Etym: [F., fr. L. complex, -plicis,
closely connected with one, confederate. See Complicate, and cf.
Accomplice.]

Defn: An accomplice. [Obs.]
To quell the rebels and their complices. Shak.

COMPLICITY
Com*plic"i*ty, n.; pl. Complicities. Etym: [F. complicité.]

Defn: The state of being an accomplice; participation in guilt.

COMPLIER
Com*pli"er, n.

Defn: One who complies, yields, or obeys; one of an easy, yieldy
temper. Swift.

COMPLIMENT
Com"pli*ment, n. Etym: [F. compliment. It complimento, fr. comlire to
compliment, finish, suit, fr. L. complere to fill up. See Complete,
and cf. Complement.]

Defn: An expression, by word or act, of approbation, regard,
confidence, civility, or admiration; a flattering speech or
attention; a ceremonious greeting; as, to send one's compliments to a
friend.
Tedious waste of time, to sit and hear So many hollow compliments and
lies. Milton.
Many a compliment politely penned. Cowper.
To make one a compliment, to show one respect; to praise one in a
flattering way.Locke.
 -- To make one's compliments to, to offer formal courtesias to.
 -- To stand on compliment, to treat with ceremony.

Syn.
 -- See Adulation.

COMPLIMENT
Com"pli*ment, v. t.

Defn: To praise, flatter, or gratify, by expressions of approbation,
respect, or congratulation; to make or pay a compliment to.
Monarchs should their inward soul disguise; . . . Should compliment
their foes and shun their friends. Prior.

Syn.
 -- To praise; flatter; adulate; commend.

COMPLIMENT
Com"pli*ment, v. i.

Defn: To pass compliments; to use conventional expressions of
respect.
I make the interlocutors, upon occasion, compliment with one another.
Boyle.

COMPLIMENTAL
Com`pli*men"tal, a.

Defn: Complimentary. [Obs.]
Languages . . . grow rich and abundant in complimental phrases, and
such froth. Sir H. Wotton.
-- Com`pli*men"tal*ly, adv. [Obs.] Boyle.
 -- Com`pli*men"tal*ness, n. [Obs.] Hammond.

COMPLIMENTARY
Com`pli*men"ta*ry, a.

Defn: Expressive of regard or praise; of the nature of, or
containing, a compliment; as, a complimentary remark; a complimentary
ticket. "Complimentary addresses." Prescott.

COMPLIMENTATIVE
Com`pli*men"ta*tive, a.

Defn: Complimentary. [R.] Boswell.

COMPLIMENTER
Com"pli*ment`er, n.

Defn: One who compliments; one given to complimenting; a flatterer.

COMPLINE; COMPLIN
Com"pline, Com"plin, n. Etym: [From OE. complie, OF. complie, F.
complies, pl., fr. LL. completa (prop. fem. of L. completus) the
religious exercise which completes and closes the service of the day.
See Complete.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The last division of the Roman Catholic breviary; the seventh
and last of the canonical hours of the Western church; the last
prayer of the day, to be said after sunset.
The custom of godly man been to shut up the evening with a compline
of prayer at nine of the night. Hammond.

COMPLOT
Com"plot, n. Etym: [F. complot, prob. for comploit, fr.L.
complicitum, prop. p. p. of complicare, but equiv. to complicatio
complication, entangling. See Complicate, and cf. Plot.]

Defn: A plotting together; a confederacy in some evil design; a
conspiracy.
I know their complot is to have my life. Shak.

COMPLOT
Com*plot", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Complotted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Complotting.] Etym: [Cf. F. comploter, fr. complot.]

Defn: To plot or plan together; to conspire; to join in a secret
design.
We find them complotting together, and contriving a new scence of
miseries to the Trojans. Pope.

COMPLOTMENT
Com*plot"ment, n.

Defn: A plotting together. [R.]

COMPLOTTER
Com*plot"ter, n.

Defn: One joined in a plot. Dryden.

COMPLUTENSIAN
Com`plu*ten"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Complutum (now Alcala de Henares) a city
near Madrid; as, the Complutensian Bible.

COMPLUVIUM
Com*plu"vi*um, n. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)

Defn: A space left unroofed over the court of a Roman dwelling,
through which the rain fell into the impluvium or cistern.

COMPLY
Com*ply", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Complied; p. pr. & vb. n. Complying.]
Etym: [Perh. formed fr. compliment, influenced by ply, pliant, which
are of different origin: cf. It. complire to compliment, finish,
suit. See Compliment, Complete.]

1. To yield assent; to accord; agree, or acquiesce; to adapt one's
self; to consent or conform; -- usually followed by with.
Yet this be sure, in nothing to comply, Scandalous or forbidden in
our law. Milton.
They did servilely comply with the people in worshiping God by
sensible images. Tillotson.
He that complies against his will Is of his own opinion still.
Hudibras.

2. To be ceremoniously courteous; to make one's compliments. [Obs.]
Shak.

COMPLY
Com*ply", v. t. Etym: [See comply, v. i.]

1. To fulfill; to accomplish. [Obs.] Chapman.

2. Etym: [Cf. L. complicare to fold up. See Ply.]

Defn: To infold; to embrace. [Obs.]
Seemed to comply, Cloudlike, the daintie deitie. Herrick.

COMPO
Com"po, n.; pl. -pos (#).

Defn: Short for Composition; -- used, esp. in England, colloq. in
various trade applications; as :
 (a) A mortar made of sand and cement.
 (b) A carver's mixture of resin, whiting, and glue, used  instead of
plaster of Paris for ornamenting walls and cornices.
 (c) A composition for billiard balls.
 (d) A preparation of which printer's rollers are made.
 (e) A preparation used in currying leather.
 (f) Composition paid by a debtor.

COMPONE
Com*pone", v. t. Etym: [L. componere. See Compound.]

Defn: To compose; to settle; to arrange. [Obs.]
A good pretense for componing peace. Strype.

COMPONE
Com*po"ne, a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Compony.

COMPONENT
Com*po"nent, a. Etym: [L. componens, p. pr. of componere. See
Compound, v. t.]

Defn: Serving, or helping, to form; composing; constituting;
constituent.
The component parts of natural bodies. Sir I. Newton.

COMPONENT
Com*po"nent, n.

Defn: A constituent part; an ingredient. Component of force (Mech.),
a force which, acting conjointly with one or more forces, produces
the effect of a single force or resultant; one of a number of forces
into which a single force may be resolved.

COMPONY; COMPONE
Com*po"ny, Com*po"né, a. Etym: [F. componé.] (Her.)

Defn: Divided into squares of alternate tinctures in a single row; --
said of any bearing; or, in the case of a bearing having curved
lines, divided into patches of alternate colors following the curve.
If there are two rows it is called counter-compony.

COMPORT
Com*port", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Comported; p. pr. & vb. n.
Comporting.] Etym: [F. comporter, LL. comportare, fr.L. comportare to
bring together; com- + portare to carry. See Port demeanor.]

1. To bear or endure; to put up (with); as, to comport with an
injury. [Obs.] Barrow.

2. To agree; to accord; to suit; -- sometimes followed by with.
How ill this dullness doth comport with greatness. Beau. & Fl.
How their behavior herein comported with the institution. Locke.

COMPORT
Com*port", v. t.

1. To bear; to endure; to brook; to put with. [Obs.]
The malcontented sort That never can the present state comport.
Daniel.

2. To carry; to conduct; -- with a reflexive pronoun.
Observe how Lord Somers . . . comported himself. Burke.

COMPORT
Com"port (, formerly , n. Etym: [Cf.OF. comport.]

Defn: Manner of acting; behavior; conduct; deportment. [Obs.]
I knew them well, and marked their rude comport. Dryden.

COMPORTABLE
Com*port"a*ble, a.

Defn: Suitable; consistent. [Obs.] "Some comportable method." Wotton.

COMPORTANCE
Com*port"ance, n.

Defn: Behavior; comport. [Obs.]
Goodly comportance each to other bear. Spenser.

COMPORTATION
Com`por*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. comportatio.]

Defn: A bringing together. [Obs.] Bp. Richardson.

COMPORTMENT
Com*port"ment, n. Etym: [F. comportement.]

Defn: Manner of acting; behavior; bearing.
A graceful comportment of their bodies. Cowley.
Her serious and devout comportment. Addison.

COMPOSE
Com*pose", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Composed; p. pr. & vb. n. Composing.]
Etym: [F. composer; com- + poser to place. The sense is that of L.
componere, but the prigin is different. See Pose, v. t.]

1. To form by putting together two or more things or parts; to put
together; to make up; to fashion.
Zeal ought to be composed of the hidhest degrees of all pious
affection. Bp. Sprat.

2. To form the substance of, or part of the substance of; to
constitute.
Their borrowed gold composed The calf in Oreb. Milton.
A few useful things . . . compose their intellectual possessions. I.
Watts.

3. To construct by mental labor; to design and execute, or put
together, in a manner involving the adaptation of forms of expression
to ideas, or to the laws of harmony or proportion; as, to compose a
sentence, a sermon, a symphony, or a picture.
Let me compose Something in verse as well as prose. Pope.
The genius that composed such works as the "Standard" and "Last
Supper". B. R. Haydon.

4. To dispose in proper form; to reduce to order; to put in proper
state or condition; to adjust; to regulate.
In a peaceful grave my corpse compose. Dryden.
How in safety best we may Compose our present evils. Milton.

5. To free from agitation or disturbance; to tranquilize; to soothe;
to calm; to quiet.
Compose thy mind; Nor frauds are here contrived, nor force designed.
Dryden.

6. (Print.)

Defn: To arrange (types) in a composing stick in order for printing;
to set (type).

COMPOSE
Com*pose", v. i.

Defn: To come to terms. [Obs.] Shak.

COMPOSED
Com*posed", a.

Defn: Free from agitation; calm; sedate; quiet; tranquil; self-
possessed.
The Mantuan there in sober triumph sate, Composed his posture, and
his look sedate. Pope.
-- Com*pos"ed*ly (, adv.
 -- Com*pos"ed*ness, n.

COMPOSER
Com*pos"er, n.

1. One who composes; an author. Specifically, an author of a piece of
music.
If the thoughts of such authors have nothing in them, they at least .
. . show an honest industry and a good intention in the composer.
Addison.
His [Mozart's] most brilliant and solid glory is founded upon his
talents as a composer. Moore (Encyc. of Mus. ).

2. One who, or that which, quits or calms; one who adjust a
difference.
Sweet composes of the pensive sGay.

COMPOSING
Com*pos"ing, a.

1. Tending to compose or soothe.

2. Pertaining to, or used in, composition. Composing frame (Print.),
a stand for holding cases of type when in use.
 -- Composing rule (Print.), a thin slip of brass or steel, against
which the type is arranged in a composing stick, or by the aid of
which stickfuls or handfuls or type are lifted; -- called also
setting rule.
 -- Composing stick (Print.), an instrument usually of metal, which
the compositor holds in his left hand, and in which he arranges the
type in words and lines. It has one open side, and one adjustable end
by means of which the length of the lines, and consequently the width
of the page or column, may be determined.

COMPOSITAE
Com*pos"i*tæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. compositus made up of parts.
See Composite.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large family of dicotyledonous plants, having their flowers
arranged in dense heads of many small florets and their anthers
united in a tube. The daisy, dandelion, and asters, are examples.

COMPOSITE
Com*pos"ite, a. Etym: [L. compositus made up of parts, p. p. of
componere. See Compound, v. t., and cf. Compost.]

1. Made up of distinct parts or elements; compounded; as, a composite
language.
Happiness, like air and water . . . is composite. Landor.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Belonging to a certain order which is composed of the Ionic
order grafted upon the Corinthian. It is called also the Roman or the
Italic order, and is one of the five orders recognized by the Italian
writers of the sixteenth century. See Capital.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to the order Compositæ; bearing involucrate heads of
many small florets, as the daisy, thistle, and dandelion. Composite
carriage, a railroad car having compartments of different classes.
[Eng.] -- Composite number (Math.), one which can be divided exactly
by a number exceeding unity, as 6 by 2 or 3.prime number.
 -- Composite photograph or portrait, one made by a combination, or
blending, of several distinct photographs. F. Galton.
 -- Composite sailing (Naut.), a combination of parallel and great
circle sailing.
 -- Composite ship, one with a wooden casing and iron frame.

COMPOSITE
Com*pos"ite, n.

Defn: That which is made up of parts or compounded of several
elements; composition; combination; compound. [R.]

COMPOSITION
Com`po*si"tion, n. Etym: [F. composition, fr. L. compositio. See
Composite.]

1. The act or art of composing, or forming a whole or integral, by
placing together and uniting different things, parts, or ingredients.
In specific uses:
(a) The invention or combination of the parts of any literary work or
discourse, or of a work of art; as, the composition of a poem or a
piece of music. "The constant habit of elaborate composition."
Macaulay.
(b) (Fine Arts) The art or practice of so combining the different
parts of a work of art as to produce a harmonious whole; also, a work
of art considered as such. See 4, below.
(c) The act of writing for practice in a language, as English, Latin,
German, etc.
(d) (Print.) The setting up of type and arranging it for printing.

2. The state of being put together or composed; conjunction;
combination; adjustment.
View them in composition with other things. I. Watts.
The elementary composition of bodies. Whewell.

3. A mass or body formed by combining two or more substances; as, a
chemical composition.
A omposition that looks . . . like marble. Addison.

4. A literary, musical, or artistic production, especially one
showing study and care in arrangement; -- often used of an elementary
essay or translation done as an educational exercise.

5. Consistency; accord; congruity. [Obs.]
There is no composition in these news That gives them credit. Shak.

6. Mutual agreement to terms or conditions for the settlement of a
difference or controversy; also, the terms or conditions of
settlement; agreement.
Thus we are agreed: I crave our composition may be written. Shak.

7. (Law)

Defn: The adjustment of a debt, or avoidance of an obligation, by
some form of compensation agreed on between the parties; also, the
sum or amount of compensation agreed upon in the adjustment.
Compositions for not taking the order of knighthood. Hallam.
Cleared by composition with their creditors. Blackstone.

8. Synthesis as opposed to analysis.
The investigation of difficult things by the method of analysis ought
ever to precede the method of composition. Sir I. Newton.
Composition cloth, a kind of clotch covered with a preparation making
it waterproof.
 -- Composition deed, an agreement for composition between a debtor
and several creditors.
 -- Composition plane (Crystallog.), the plane by which the two
individuals of a twin crystal are united in their reserved positions.
 -- Composition of forces (Mech.), the finding of a single force
(called the resultant) which shall be equal in effect to two or more
given forces (called the components) when acting in given directions.
Herbert.
 -- Composition metal, an alloy resembling brass, which is sometimes
used instead of copper for sheathing vessels; -- also called Muntz
metal and yellow metal.
 -- Composition of proportion (Math.), an arrangement of four
proportionals so that the sum of the arrangement of four
proportionals so that the sum of the third and fourth to the
fourth.COMPOSITIVE
Com*pos"i*tive, a. Etym: [L. compositivus.]

Defn: Having the quality of entering into composition; compounded.
[R.]

COMPOSITIVE
Com*pos"i*tive, a. [L. compositivus.]

Defn: Having the quality of entering into composition; compounded.
[R.]

COMPOSITOR
Com*pos"i*tor, n. Etym: [L., an arranger.]

1. One who composes or sets in order.

2. (Print.)

Defn: One who sets type and arranges it for use.

COMPOSITOUS
Com*pos"i*tous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to the Compositæ; composite. [R.] Darwin.

COMPOS-MENTIS
Com"pos-men"tis, n.

Defn: One who is compos mentis. [Colloq.]

COMPOSSIBLE
Com*pos"si*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. com- + possible.]

Defn: Able to exist with another thing; consistent. [R.]
Chillingworth.

COMPOST
Com"post, n.Etym: [OF. compost, fr. L. compositus, p. p. See
Composite.]

1. A mixture; a compound. [R.]
A sad compost of more bitter than sweet. Hammond.

2. (Agric.)

Defn: A mixture for fertilizing land; esp., a composition of various
substances (as muck, mold, lime, and stable manure) thoroughly
mingled and decomposed, as in a compost heap.
And do not spread the compost on the weeds To make them ranker. Shak.

COMPOST
Com"post, v. t.

1. To manure with compost.

2. To mingle, as different fertilizing substances, in a mass where
they will decompose and form into a compost.

COMPOSTURE
Com*pos"ture, n. Etym: [L. compositura, -postura, a joining.]

Defn: Manure; compost. [Obs.] Shak.

COMPOSURE
Com*po"sure, n. Etym: [From Compose.]

1. The act of composing, or that which is composed; a composition.
[Obs.]
Signor Pietro, who had an admirable way both of composure [in music]
and teaching. Evelyn.

2. Orderly adjustment; disposition. [Obs.]
Various composures and combinations of these corpuscles. Woodward.

3. Frame; make; temperament. [Obs.]
His composure must be rare indeed Whom these things can not blemish.
Shak.

4. A settled state; calmness; sedateness; tranquillity; repose. "We
seek peace and composure." Milton.
When the passions . . . are all silent, the mind enjoys its most
perfect composure. I. Watts.

5. A combination; a union; a bond. [Obs.] Shak.

COMPOTATION
Com`po*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. compotatio; com- + potare to drink.]

Defn: The act of drinking or tippling together. [R.]
The fashion of compotation. Sir W. Scott.

COMPOTATOR
Com"po*ta`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who drinks with another. [R.] Pope.

COMPOTE
Com"pote, n. Etym: [F. See Compost.]

Defn: A preparation of fruit in sirup in such a manner as to preserve
its form, either whole, halved, or quartered; as, a compote of pears.
Littr

COMPOTIER
Com`po`tier" (kôN`po`tya"), n.; pl. Compotiers (F. tya"). [F.]

Defn: A dish for holding compotes, fruit, etc.

COMPOUND
Com"pound, n. Etym: [Malay kompund a village.]

Defn: In the East Indies, an inclosure containing a house,
outbuildings, etc.

COMPOUND
Com*pound", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Compounded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Compounding.] Etym: [OE. componen, compounen, L. componere,
compositum; com-+ ponere to put set. The d is excrescent. See
Position, and cf. Componé.]

1. To form or make by combining different elements, ingredients, or
parts; as, to compound a medicine.
Incapacitating him from successfully compounding a tale of this sort.
Sir W. Scott.

2. To put together, as elements, ingredients, or parts, in order to
form a whole; to combine, mix, or unite.
We have the power of altering and compounding those images into all
the varieties of picture. Addison.

3. To modify or change by combination with some other thing or part;
to mingle with something else.
Only compound me with forgotten dust. Shak.

4. To compose; to constitute. [Obs.]
His pomp and all what state compounds. Shak.

5. To settle amicably; to adjust by agreement; to compromise; to
discharge from obligation upon terms different from those which were
stipulated; as, to compound a debt.
I pray, my lords, let me compound this strife. Shak.
To compound a felony, to accept of a consideration for forbearing to
prosecute, such compounding being an indictable offense. See
Theftbote.

COMPOUND
Com*pound", v. i.

Defn: To effect a composition; to come to terms of agreement; to
agree; to settle by a compromise; -- usually followed by with before
the person participating, and for before the thing compounded or the
consideration.
Here's a fellow will help you to-morrow; . . . compound with him by
the year. Shak.
They were at last glad to compound for his bare commitment to the
Tower. Clarendon.
Cornwall compounded to furnish ten oxen after Michaelmas for thirty
pounds. R. Carew.
Compound for sins they are inclined to By damning those they have no
mind to. Hudibras.

COMPOUND
Com"pound, a. Etym: [OE. compouned, p. p. of compounen. See Compound,
v. t.]

Defn: Composed of two or more elements, ingredients, parts; produced
by the union of several ingredients, parts, or things; composite; as,
a compound word.
Compound substances are made up of two or more simple substances. I.
Watts.
Compound addition, substraction, multiplication, division (Arith.),
the addition, substraction, etc., of compound numbers.
 -- Compound crystal (Crystallog.), a twin crystal, or one seeming to
be made up of two or more crystals combined according to regular laws
of composition.
 -- Compound engine (Mech.), a form of steam engine in which the
steam that has been used in a high-pressure cylinder is made to do
further service in a larger low-pressure cylinder, sometimes in
several larger cylinders, successively.
 -- Compound ether. (Chem.) See under Ether.
 -- Compound flower (Bot.), a flower head resembling a single flower,
but really composed of several florets inclosed in a common calyxlike
involucre, as the sunflower or dandelion.
 -- Compound fraction. (Math.) See Fraction.
 -- Compound fracture. See Fracture.
 -- Compound householder, a householder who compounds or arranges
with his landlord that his rates shall be included in his rents.
[Eng.] -- Compound interest. See Interest.
 -- Compound larceny. (Law) See Larceny.
 -- Compound leaf (Bot.), a leaf having two or more separate blades
or leaflets on a common leafstalk.
 -- Compound microscope. See Microscope.
 -- Compound motion. See Motion.
 -- Compound number (Math.), one constructed according to a varying
scale of denomination; as, 3 cwt., 1 qr., 5 lb.; -- called also
denominate number.
 -- Compound pier (Arch.), a clustered column.
 -- Compound quantity (Alg.), a quantity composed of two or more
simple quantities or terms, connected by the sign + (plus) or -
(minus). Thus, a + b - c, and bb - b, are compound quantities.
 -- Compound radical. (Chem.) See Radical.
 -- Compound ratio (Math.), the product of two or more ratios; thus
ab:cd is a ratio compounded of the simple ratios a:c and b:d.
 -- Compound rest (Mech.), the tool carriage of an engine lathe.
 -- Compound screw (Mech.), a screw having on the same axis two or
more screws with different pitch (a differential screw), or running
in different directions (a right and left screw).
 -- Compound time (Mus.), that in which two or more simple measures
are combined in one; as, 6-8 time is the joining of two measures of
3-8 time.
 -- Compound word, a word composed of two or more words;
specifically, two or more words joined together by a hyphen.

COMPOUND
Com"pound, n.

1. That which is compounded or formed by the union or mixture of
elements ingredients, or parts; a combination of simples; a compound
word; the result of composition. Shak.
Rare compound of oddity, frolic, and fun. Goldsmith.
When the word "bishopric" was first made, it was made as a compound.
Earle.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A union of two or more ingredients in definite proportions by
weight, so combined as to form a distinct substance; as, water is a
compound of oxygen and hydrogen.

Note: Every definite chemical compound always contains the same
elements, united in the same proportions by weight, and with the same
internal arrangement. Binary compound (Chem.). See under Binary.
 -- Carbon compounds (Chem.). See under Carbon.

COMPOUNDABLE
Com*pound"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be compounded.

COMPOUND CONTROL
Com"pound con*trol". (Aëronautics)

Defn: A system of control in which a separate manipulation, as of a
rudder, may be effected by either of two movements, in different
directions, of a single lever, etc.

COMPOUNDER
Com*pound"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, compounds or mixes; as, a compounder of
medicines.

2. One who attempts to bring persons or parties to terms of
agreement, or to accomplish, ends by compromises. "Compounder in
politics." Burke.

3. One who compounds a debt, obligation, or crime.
Religious houses made compounders For the horrid actions of their
founders. Hudibras.

4. One at a university who pays extraordinary fees for the degree he
is to take. [Eng.] A. Wood.

5. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A Jacobite who favored the restoration of James II, on
condition of a general amnesty and of guarantees for the security of
the civil and ecclesiastical constitution of the realm.

COMPRADOR
Com`pra*dor, n. Etym: [Pg., a buyer.]

Defn: A kind of steward or agent. [China] S. W. Williams

COMPRECATION
Com`pre*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. comprecatio, fr. comprecari to pray to.
See Precarious.]

Defn: A praying together. [Obs.] Bp. Wilkins.

COMPREHEND
Com`pre*hend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Comprehended; p. pr. & vb. n.
Comprehending.] Etym: [L. comprehendere, comprehensum; com- +
prehendere to grasp, seize; prae before + hendere (used only in
comp.). See Get, and cf. Comprise.]

1. To contain; to embrace; to include; as, the states comprehended in
the Austrian Empire.
Who hath . . . comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure. Is.
xl. 12.

2. To take in or include by construction or implication; to comprise;
to imply.
Comprehended all in this one word, Discretion. Hobbes.
And if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in
this saying. Rom. xiii. 9.

3. To take into the mind; to grasp with the understanding; to
apprehend the meaning of; to understand.
At a loss to comprehend the question. W. Irwing.
Great things doeth he, which we can not comprehend. Job. xxxvii. 5.

Syn.
 -- To contain; include; embrace; comprise; inclose; grasp; embody;
involve; imply; apprehend; imagine; conceive; understand. See
Apprehend.

COMPREHENSIBILITY
Com`pre*hen`si*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being comprehensible; capability of
being understood.

COMPREHENSIBLE
Com"pre*hen"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. comprehensibilis: cf. F.
compreéhensible.]

1. Capable of being comprehended, included, or comprised.
Lest this part of knowledge should seem to any not comprehensible by
axiom, we will set down some heads of it. Bacon.

2. Capable of being understood; intelligible; conceivable by the
mind.
The horizon sets the bounds . . . between what is and what is not
comprehensible by us. Locke.

COMPREHENSIBLENESS
Com`pre*hen"si*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being comprehensible; comprehensibility.

COMPREHENSIBLY
Com`pre*hen"si*bly, adv.

1. With great extent of signification; comprehensively. Tillotson.

2. Intelligibly; in a manner to be comprehended or understood.

COMPREHENSION
Com`pre*hen"sion, n. Etym: [L. comprehensio: cf. F. compréhension.]

1. The act of comprehending, containing, or comprising; inclusion.
In the Old Testament there is a close comprehension of the New; in
the New, an open discovery of the Old. Hooker.

2. That which is comrehended or inclosed within narrow limits; a
summary; an epitome. [Obs.]
Though not a catalogue of fundamentals, yet . . . a comprehension of
them. Chillingworth.

3. The capacity of the mind to perceive and understand; the power,
act, or process of grasping with the intellect; perception;
understanding; as, a comprehension of abstract principles.

4. (Logic)

Defn: The complement of attributes which make up the notion signified
by a general term.

5. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure by which the name of a whole is put for a part, or
that of a part for a whole, or a definite number for an indefinite.

COMPREHENSIVE
Com`pre*hen"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. compréhensif.]

1. Including much; comprising many things; having a wide scope or a
full view.
A very comprehensive definition. Bentley.
Large and comprehensive idea. Channing.

2. Having the power to comprehend or understand many things. "His
comprehensive head." Pope.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Possessing peculiarities that are characteristic of several
diverse groups.

Note: The term is applied chiefly to early fossil groups which have a
combination of structures that appear in more fully developed or
specialized forms in later groups. Synthetic, as used by Agssiz, is
nearly synonymous.

Syn.
 -- Extensive; wide; large; full; compendious.

COMPREHENSIVELY
Com`pre*hen"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a comprehensive manner; with great extent of scope.

COMPREHENSIVENESS
Com`pre*hen"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being comprehensive; extensiveness of scope.
Compare the beauty and comprehensiveness of legends on ancient coins.
Addison.

COMPREHENSOR
Com`pre*hen"sor, n.

Defn: One who comprehends; one who has attained to a full knowledge.
[Obs.]
When I shall have dispatched this weary pilgrimage, and from a
traveler shall come to be a comprehensor, farewell faith and welcome
vision. Bp. Hall.

COMPRESS
Com*press", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Compressed; p. pr & vb. n.
Compressing.] Etym: [L. compressus, p. p. of comprimere to compress:
com- + premere to press. See Press.]

1. To press or squeeze together; to force into a narrower compass; to
reduce the volume of by pressure; to compact; to condense; as, to
compress air or water.
Events of centuries . . . compressed within the compass of a single
life. D. Webster.
The same strength of expression, though more compressed, runs through
his historical harangues. Melmoth.

2. To embrace sexually. [Obs.] Pope.

Syn.
 -- To crowd; squeeze; condense; reduce; abridge.

COMPRESS
Com"press, n. Etym: [F. compresse.] (Surg.)

Defn: A folded piece of cloth, pledget of lint, etc., used to cover
the dressing of wounds, and so placed as, by the aid of a bandage, to
make due pressure on any part.

COMPRESSED
Com*pressed", a.

1. Pressed together; compacted; reduced in volume by pressure.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Flattened lengthwise. Compessed air engine, an engine operated
by the elastic force of compressed air.

COMPRESSED YEAST
Com*pressed" yeast.

Defn: A cake yeast made by filtering the cells from the liquid in
which they are grown, subjecting to heavy pressure, and mixing with
starch or flour.

COMPRESSIBILITY
Com*press`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. compressibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being compressible of being compressible; as,
the compressibility of elastic fluids.

COMPRESSIBLE
Com*press"i*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. compressible.]

Defn: Capable of being pressed together or forced into a narrower
compass, as an elastic or spongy substance.

COMPRESSIBLENESS
Com*press"ible*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being compressible; compressibility.

COMPRESSION
Com*pres"sion, n. Etym: [L. compressio: cf. F. compression.]

Defn: The act of compressing, or state of being compressed.
"Compression of thought." Johnson.

COMPRESSION PROJECTILE
Com*pres"sion pro*jec"tile.

Defn: A projectile constructed so as to take the grooves of a rifle
by means of a soft copper band firmly attached near its base or,
formerly, by means of an envelope of soft metal. In small arms the
modern projectile, having a soft core and harder jacket, is subjected
to compression throughout the entire cylindrical part.

COMPRESSIVE
Com*press"ive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. compressif.]

Defn: Compressing, or having power or tendency to compress; as, a
compressive force.

COMPRESSOR
Com*press"or, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Anything which serves to compress; as:
(a) (Anat.) A muscle that compresses certain parts.
(b) (Surg.) An instrument for compressing an artery (esp., the
femoral artery) or other part.
(c) An apparatus for confining or flattening between glass plates an
object to be examined with the microscope; -- called also
compressorium.
(d) (Mach.) A machine for compressing gases; especially, an air
compressor.

COMPRESSURE
Com*pres"sure, n.

Defn: Compression.

COMPRINT
Com*print", v. t. & i.

1. To print together.

2. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: To print surreptitiously a work belonging to another. E.
Phillips.

COMPRINT
Com"print, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: The surreptitious printing of another's copy or book; a work
thus printed.

COMPRISAL
Com*pris"al, n.

Defn: The act of comprising or comprehending; a compendium or
epitome.
A comprisal . . . and sum of all wickedness. Barrow.

COMPRISE
Com*prise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Comprised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Comprising.] Etym: [From F. compris, comprise, p. p. of comprendre,
L. comprehendere. See Comprehend.]

Defn: To comprehend; to include.
Comprise much matter in few words. Hocker.
Friendship does two souls in one comprise. Roscommon.

Syn.
 -- To embrace; include; comprehend; contain; encircle; inclose;
involve; imply.

COMPROBATE
Com"pro*bate, v. i. Etym: [L. comprobatus, p. p. of comprobare, to
approve wholly.]

Defn: To agree; to concur. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

COMPROBATION
Com`pro*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. comprobatio.]

1. Joint attestation; proof. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

2. Approbation. [Obs.] Foxe.

COMPROMISE
Com"pro*mise, n. Etym: [F. compromis, fr. L. compromissum a mutual
promise to abide by the decision of an arbiter, fr. compromittere to
make such a promise; com- + promittere to promise. See Promise.]

1. A mutual agreement to refer matters in dispute to the decision of
arbitrators. [Obs.] Burrill.

2. A settlement by arbitration or by mutual consent reached by
concession on both sides; a reciprocal abatement of extreme demands
or rights, resulting in an agreement.
But basely yielded upon compromise That which his noble ancestors
achieved with blows. Shak.
All government, indeed every human benefit and enjoyment, every
virtue and every prudent act, is founded on compromise and barter.
Burke.
An abhorrence of concession and compromise is a never failing
characteristic of religious factions. Hallam.

3. A committal to something derogatory or objectionable; a
prejudicial concession; a surrender; as, a compromise of character or
right.
I was determined not to accept any fine speeches, to the compromise
of that sex the belonging to which was, after all, my strongest claim
and title to them. Lamb.

COMPROMISE
Com"pro*mise, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Compromised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Compromising.] Etym: [From Compromise, n.; cf. Compromit.]

1. To bind by mutual agreement; to agree. [Obs.]
Laban and himself were compromised That all the eanlings which were
streaked and pied Should fall as Jacob's hire. Shak.

2. To adjust and settle by mutual concessions; to compound.
The controversy may easily be compromised. Fuller.

3. To pledge by some act or declaration; to endanger the life,
reputation, etc., of, by some act which can not be recalled; to
expose to suspicion.
To pardon all who had been compromised in the late disturbances.
Motley.

COMPROMISE
Com"pro*mise, v. i.

1. To agree; to accord. [Obs.]

2. To make concession for concilation and peace.

COMPROMISER
Com"pro*mi`ser, n.

Defn: One who compromises.

COMPROMISSORIAL
Com`pro*mis*so"ri*al, a.

Defn: Relating to compromise. [R.] Chalmers.

COMPROMIT
Com"pro*mit`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Compromitted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Compromitting.] Etym: [L. compromittere. See Compromise, n.]

1. To pledge by some act or declaration; to promise. State Trials
(1529).

2. To put to hazard, by some indiscretion; to endanger; to
compromise; as, to compromit the honor or the safety of a nation.

COMPROVINCIAL
Com`pro*vin"cial, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or associated in, the same province. [Obs.] -- n.

Defn: One who belongs to the same province. [Obs.]
The six islands, comprovincial In ancient times unto Great Britain.
Spenser.

COMPSOGNATHUS
Comp*sog"na*thus ( , n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Dinosauria found in the Jurassic formation, and
remarkable for having several birdlike features.

COMPT
Compt (kount, formerly kòmt; 215), n. Etym: [F. compte. See Count an
account.]

Defn: Account; reckoning; computation. [Obs.] Shak.

COMPT
Compt, v. t. Etym: [F. compter. See Count, v. t.]

Defn: To compute; to count. [Obs.] See Count.

COMPT
Compt, a. Etym: [L. comptus, p. p. of comere to care for, comb,
arrange, adorn.]

Defn: Neat; spruce. [Obs.] Cotgrave.

COMPTER
Compt"er, n.

Defn: A counter. [Obs.] Shak.

COMPTE RENDU
Compte" ren`du. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A report of an officer or agent.

COMPTIBLE
Compt"i*ble, a. Etym: [See Compt, v. t.]

Defn: Accountable; responsible; sensitive. [Obs.]
I am very comptible even to the least sinister usage. Shak.

COMPTLY
Compt"ly, adv.

Defn: Neatly. [Obs.] Sherwood.

COMPTOGRAPH
Comp"to*graph, n. [F. compter to count + -graph.]

Defn: A machine for adding numbers and making a printed record of the
sum.

COMPTOMETER
Comp*tom"e*ter, n. [See Count; -meter.]

Defn: A calculating machine; an arithmometer.

COMPTROL
Comp*trol", n. & v.

Defn: See Control.

COMPTROLER
Comp*trol"er, n.

Defn: A controller; a public officer whose duty it is to examine
certify accounts.

COMPULSATIVE
Com*pul"sa*tive, a. Etym: [From L. compulsare, v. intens. of
compellere. See Compel.]

Defn: Compulsatory. [R.] Shak.

COMPULSATIVELY
Com*pul"sa*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: By compulsion. [R.]

COMPULSATORY
Com*pul"sa*to*ry, a.

Defn: Operating with force; compelling; forcing; constraininig;
resulting from, or enforced by, compulsion. [R.]
To recover of us, by strong hand And terms compulsatory, those
foresaid lands. Shak.

COMPULSION
Com*pul"sion, n. Etym: [L. compulsio. See Compel.]

Defn: The act of compelling, or the state of being compelled; the act
of driving or urging by force or by physical or moral constraint;
subjection to force.
If reasons were as plentiful as blackberries, I would give no man a
reason upon compulsion. Shak.
With what complusion and laborious flight We sunk thus low. Milton.

Syn.
 -- See Constraint.

COMPULSIVE
Com*pul"sive, a.

Defn: Having power to compel; exercising or applying compulsion.
Religion is . . . inconsistent with all compulsive motives. Sharp.

COMPULSIVELY
Com*pul"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: By compulsion; by force.

COMPULSORILY
Com*pul"so*ri*ly, adv. In a compulsory manner

Defn: ; by force or constraint.

COMPULSORY
Com*pul"so*ry, a. Etym: [LL. compulsorius.]

1. Having the power of compulsion; constraining.

2. Obligatory; enjoined by authority; necessary; due to complusion.
This contribution therestening fall infinitely short of their hopes,
they soon made it compulsory. Burke.

COMPUNCT
Com*punct", a. Etym: [LL. compunctus, p. p.]

Defn: Affected with compunction; conscience-stricken. [Obs.]

COMPUNCTION
Com*punc"tion, n. Etym: [OF. compunction, F. componction, L.
compunctio, fr. compungere, compunctum, to prick; com- + pungere to
prick, sting. See Pungent.]

1. A pricking; stimulation. [Obs.]
That acid piecering spirit which, with such activity and compunction,
invadeth the brains and nostrils. Sir T. Browne.

2. A picking of heart; poignant grief proceeding from a sense of
guilt or consciousness of causing pain; the sting of conscience.
He acknowledged his disloyalty to the king, with expressions of great
compunction. Clarendon.

Syn.
 -- Compunction, Remorse, Contrition. Remorse is anguish of soul
under a sense of guilt or consciousness of having offened God or
brought evil upon one's self or others. Compunction is the pain
occasioned by a wounded and awakened conscience. Neither of them
implies true contrition, which denotes self-condemnation,
humiliation, and repentance. We speak of the gnawings of remorse; of
compunction for a specific act of transgression; of deep contrition
in view of our past lives. See Regret.

COMPUNCTIONLESS
Com*punc"tion*less, a.

Defn: Without compunction.

COMPUNCTIOUS
Com*punc"tious, a.

Defn: Of the nature of compunction; caused by conscience; attended
with, or causing, compunction.
That no compunctious vistings of nature Shake my fell purpose. Shak.

COMPUNCTIOUSLY
Com*punc"tious*ly, adv.

Defn: With compunction.

COMPUNCTIVE
Com*punc"tive, a.

Defn: Sensitive in respect of wrongdoing; conscientious. [Obs.] Jer.
Taylor.

COMPURGATION
Com`pur*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. compurgatio, fr. compurgare to purify
wholly; com- + purgare to make pure. See Purge, v. t.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The act or practice of justifying or confirming a man's
veracity by the oath of others; -- called also wager of law. See
Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.

2. Exculpation by testimony to one's veracity or innocence.
He was privileged from his childhood from suspicion of incontinency
and needed no compurgation. Bp. Hacket.

COMPURGATOR
Com"pur*ga`tor, n. Etym: [LL.]

Defn: One who bears testimony or swears to the veracity or innocence
of another. See Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.
All they who know me . . . will say they have reason in this matter
to be my compurgators. Chillingworth.

COMPURGATORIAL
Com*pur`ga*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Relating to a compurgator or to compurgation. "Their
compurgatorial oath." Milman.

COMPUTABLE
Com*put"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. computabilis.]

Defn: Capable of being computed, numbered, or reckoned.
Not easily computable by arithmetic. Sir M. Hale.

COMPUTATION
Com`pu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. computatio: cf. F. computation.]

1. The act or process of computing; calculation; reckoning.
By just computation of the time. Shak.
By a computation backward from ourselves. Bacon.

2. The result of computation; the amount computed.

Syn.
 -- Reckoning; calculation; estimate; account.

COMPUTE
Com*pute", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Computed; p. pr. & vb. n. Computing.]
Etym: [L. computare. See Count, v. t.]

Defn: To determine calculation; to reckon; to count.
Two days, as we compute the days of heaven. Milton.
What's done we partly may compute, But know not what's resisted.
Burns.

Syn.
 -- To calculate; number; count; recken; estimate; enumerate; rate.
See Calculate.

COMPUTE
Com*pute", n. Etym: [L. computus: cf. F. comput.]

Defn: Computation. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

COMPUTER
Com*put"er, n.

Defn: One who computes.

COMPUTIST
Com"pu*tist, n.

Defn: A computer.

COMRADE
Com"rade ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [Sp. camarada, fr. L. camara, a
chamber; hence, a chamber-fellowship, and then a chamber-fellow: cf.
F. camarade. Cf. Chamber.]

Defn: A mate, companion, or associate.
And turned my flying comrades to the charge. J. Baillie.
I abjure all roofs, and choose . . . To be a comrade with the wolf
and owl. Shak.

COMRADERY
Com"rade*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. camarederie.]

Defn: The spirit of comradeship; comradeship. [R.]
"Certainly", said Dunham, with the comradery of the smoker. W. D.
Howells.

COMRADESHIP
Com"rade*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a comrade; intimate fellowship.

COMROGUE
Com"rogue`, n.

Defn: A fellow rogue. [Obs.]

COMTISM
Com"tism ( or ), n. Etym: [Named after the French philosopher,
Auguste Comte.]

Defn: Positivism; the positive philosophy. See Positivism.

COMTIST
Com"tist, n.

Defn: A disciple of Comte; a positivist.

CON; CON-
Con

Defn: - (cum, signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.

CON
Con, adv. Etym: [Abbrev. from L. contra against.]

Defn: Against the affirmative side; in opposition; on the negative
side; -- The antithesis of pro, and usually in connection with it.
See Pro.

CON
Con, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Conned; p. pr. & vb. n. Conning.] Etym: [AS.
cunnan to know, be able, and (derived from this) cunnian to try,
test. See Can, v. t. & i.]

1. To know; to understand; to acknowledge. [Obs.]
Of muses, Hobbinol, I con no skill. Spenser.
They say they con to heaven the highway. Spenser.

2. To study in order to know; to peruse; to learn; to commit to
memory; to regard studiously.
Fixedly did look Upon the muddy waters which he conned As if he had
been reading in a book. Wodsworth.
I did not come into Parliament to con my lesson. Burke.
To con answer, to be able to answer. [Obs.] -- To con thanks, to
thank; to acknowledge obligation. [Obs.] Shak.

CON
Con, v. t. Etym: [See Cond.] (Naut.)

Defn: To conduct, or superintend the steering of (a vessel); to watch
the course of (a vessel) and direct the helmsman how to steer.

CONACRE
Con*a"cre, v. t.

Defn: To underlet a proportion of, for a single crop; -- said of a
farm. [Ireland]

CONACRE
Con*a"cre, n.

Defn: A system of letting a proportion of a farm for a single crop.
[Ireland] Also used adjectively; as, the conacre system or principle.
Mozley & W.

CONARIUM
Co*na"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The pineal gland.

CONATION
Co*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. conatio.] (Philos.)

Defn: The power or act which directs or impels to effort of any kind,
whether muscular or psychical.
Of conation, in other words, of desire and will. J. S. Mill.

CONATIVE
Co"na*tive ( or ), a. Etym: [See Conatus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to conation.
This division of mind into the three great classes of the cognitive
faculties, the feelings, . . . and the exertive or conative powers, .
. . was first promulgated by Kant. Sir W. Hamilton.

CONATUS
Co*na"tus, n. Etym: [L., fr. conatus, p. p. of conari to attempt.]

Defn: A natural tendency inherent in a body to develop itself; an
attempt; an effort.
What conatus could give prickles to the porcupine or hedgehog, or to
the sheep its fleece Paley.

CONCAMERATE
Con*cam"er*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. concameratus, p. p. of concamerare to
arch over. See Camber.]

1. To arch over; to vault.
Of the upper beak an inch and a half consisteth of one concamerated
bone. Grew.

2. To divide into chambers or cells. Woodward.

CONCAMERATION
Con*cam`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. concameratio.]

1. An arch or vault.

2. A chamber of a multilocular shell. Glanvill.

CONCATENATE
Con*cat"e*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Concatenated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Concatenating.] Etym: [L. concatenatus, p. p. of concatenare to
concatenate. See Catenate.]

Defn: To link together; to unite in a series or chain, as things
depending on one another.
This all things friendly will concatenate. Dr. H. More

CONCATENATION
Con*cat`e*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. concatenatio.]

Defn: A series of links united; a series or order of things depending
on each other, as if linked together; a chain, a succession.
The stoics affirmed a fatal, unchangeable concatenation of causes,
reaching even to the illicit acts of man's will. South.
A concatenation of explosions. W. Irving.

CONCAUSE
Con*cause", n.

Defn: A joint cause. Fotherby.

CONCAVATION
Con`ca*va"tion, n.

Defn: The act of making concave.

CONCAVE
Con"cave ( or ; 277), a. Etym: [L. concavus; con- + cavus hollow: cf.
F. concave. See Cave a hollow.]

1. Hollow and curved or rounded; vaulted; -- said of the interior of
a curved surface or line, as of the curve of the of the inner surface
of an eggshell, in opposition to convex; as, a concave mirror; the
concave arch of the sky.

2. Hollow; void of contents. [R.]
As concave . . . as a worm-eaten nut. Shak.

CONCAVE
Con"cave, n. Etym: [L. concavum.]

1. A hollow; an arched vault; a cavity; a recess.
Up to the fiery concave towering hight. Milton.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: A curved sheath or breasting for a revolving cylinder or roll.

CONCAVE
Con"cave, v. t. [imp. & p. p. concaved (; p. pr.& vb. n. Concaving.]

Defn: To make hollow or concave.

CONCAVED
Con"caved, a. (Her.)

Defn: Bowed in the form of an arch; -- called also arched.

CONCAVENESS
Con"cave*ness, n.

Defn: Hollowness; concavity.

CONCAVITY
Con*cav"i*ty, n.; pl. Concavities. Etym: [L. concavitas: cf. F.
concavité. See Concave.]

Defn: A concave surface, or the space bounded by it; the state of
being concave.

CONCAVO-CONCAVE
Con*ca`vo-con"cave, a.

Defn: Concave or hollow on both sides; double concave.

CONCAVO-CONVEX
Con*ca`vo-con"vex, a.

1. Concave on one side and convex on the other, as an eggshell or a
crescent.

2. (Optics)

Defn: Specifically, having such a combination of concave and convex
sides as makes the focal axis the shortest line between them. See
Illust. under Lens.

CONCAVOUS
Con*ca*"vous, a. Etym: [L. concavus.]

Defn: Concave. Abp. potter.
 -- Con*ca"vous*ly, adv.

CONCEAL
Con*ceal", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Concealed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Concealing.] Etym: [OF. conceler, L. concelare; con- + celareto hide;
akin to AS. helan, G. hehlen, E. hele (to cover), helmet. See Hell,
Helmet.]

Defn: To hide or withdraw from observation; to cover; to cover or
keep from sight; to prevent the discovery of; to withhold knowledge
of.
It is the glory of God to conceal a thing. Prov. xxv. 2.
Declare ye among the nations, . . . publish and conceal not. Jer. 1.
2.
He which finds him shall deserve our thanks, . . . He that conceals
him, death. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To hide; secrete; screen; cover; disguise; dissemble; mask; veil;
cloak; screen.
 -- To Conceal, Hide, Disguise, Dissemble, Secrete. To hide is the
generic term, which embraces all the rest. To conceal is simply not
make known what we wish to keep secret. In the Bible hide often has
the specific meaning of conceal. See 1 Sam. iii. 17, 18. To disguise
or dissemble is to conceal by assuming some false appearance. To
secrete is to hide in some place of secrecy. A man may conceal facts,
disguise his sentiments, dissemble his feelings, secrete stolen
goods.
Bur double griefs afflict concealing hearts. Spenser.
Both dissemble deeply their affections. Shak.
We have in these words a primary sense, which reveals a future state,
and a secondary sense, which hides and secretes it. Warburton.

CONCEALABLE
Con*ceal"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being concealed.

CONCEALED
Con*cealed", a.

Defn: Hidden; kept from sight; secreted.
 -- Con*ceal"ed*ly (, adv.
 -- Con*ceal"ed*ness, n. Concealed weapons (Law), dangerous weapons
so carried on the person as to be knowingly or willfully concealed
from sight, -- a practice forbidden by statute.

CONCEALER
Con*ceal"er, n.

Defn: One who conceals.

CONCEALMENT
Con*ceal"ment, n. Etym: [OF. concelement.]

1. The act of concealing; the state of being concealed.
But let concealment, like a worm i' the bud, Feed on her damask
cheek. Shak.
Some dear cause Will in concealment wrap me up awhile. Shak.

2. A place of hiding; a secret place; a retreat frem observation.
The cleft tree Offers its kind concealment to a few. Thomson.

3. A secret; out of the way knowledge. [Obs.]
Well read in strange concealments. Shak.

4. (Law)

Defn: Suppression of such facts and circumstances as in justice ought
to be made known. Wharton.

CONCEDE
Con*cede", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Conceded; p. pr. & vb. n. Conceding.]
Etym: [L. concedere, concessum; con- + cedere to go along, give way,
yield: cf. F. concéder. See Cede.]

1. To yield or suffer; to surrender; to grant; as. to concede the
point in question. Boyle.

2. To grant, as a right or privilege; to make concession of.

3. To admit to be true; to acknowledge.
We concede that their citizens were those who lived under different
forms. Burke.

Syn.
 -- To grant; allow; admit; yield; surrender.

CONCEDE
Con*cede", v. i.

Defn: To yield or make concession.
I wished you to concede to America, at a time when she prayed
concession at our feet. Burke.

CONCEIT
Con*ceit", n. Etym: [Through French, fr. L. conceptus a conceiving,
conception, fr. concipere to conceive: cf. OF. p. p. nom. conciez
conceived. See Conceive, and cf. Concept, Deceit.]

1. That which is conceived, imagined, or formed in the mind; idea;
thought; image; conception.
In laughing, there ever procedeth a conceit of somewhat ridiculous.
Bacon.
A man wise in his own conceit. Prov. xxvi. 12.

2. Faculty of conceiving ideas; mental faculty; apprehension; as, a
man of quick conceit. [Obs.]
How often, alas! did her eyes say unto me that they loved! and yet I,
not looking for such a matter, had not my conceit open to understand
them. Sir P. Sidney.

3. Quickness of apprehension; active imagination; lively fancy.
His wit's as thick as Tewksbury mustard; there's more conceit in him
than is in a mallet. Shak.

4. A fanciful, odd, or extravagant notion; a quant fancy; an
unnatural or affected conception; a witty thought or turn of
expression; a fanciful device; a whim; a quip.
On his way to the gibbet, a freak took him in the head to go off with
a conceit. L'Estrange.
Some to conceit alone their works confine, And glittering thoughts
struck out at every line. Pope.
Tasso is full of conceits . . . which are not only below the dignity
of heroic verse but contrary to its nature. Dryden.

5. An overweening idea of one's self; vanity.
Plumed with conceit he calls aloud. Cotton.

6. Design; pattern. [Obs.] Shak. In conceit with, in accord with;
agreeing or conforming.
 -- Out of conceit with, not having a favorable opinion of; not
pleased with; as, a man is out of conceit with his dress.
 -- To put [one] out conceit with, to make one indifferent to a
thing, or in a degree displeased with it.

CONCEIT
Con*ceit", v. t.

Defn: To conceive; to imagine. [Archaic]
The strong, by conceiting themselves weak, are therebly rendered as
inactive . . . as if they really were so. South.
One of two bad ways you must conceit me, Either a coward or a
flatterer. Shak.

CONCEIT
Con*ceit", v. i.

Defn: To form an idea; to think. [Obs.]
Those whose . . . vulgar apprehensions conceit but low of matrimonial
purposes. Milton.

CONCEITED
Con*ceit"ed, a.

1. Endowed with fancy or imagination. [Obs.]
He was . . . pleasantly conceited, and sharp of wit. Knolles.

2. Entertaining a flattering opinion of one's self; vain.
If you think me too conceited Or to passion quickly heated. Swift.
Conceited of their own wit, science, and politeness. Bentley.

3. Curiously contrived or designed; fanciful. [Obs.]
A conceited chair to sleep in. Evelyn.

Syn.
 -- Vain; proud; opinionated; egotistical.

CONCEITEDLY
Con*ceit"ed*ly, adv.

1. In an egotistical manner.

2. Fancifully; whimsically.

CONCEITEDNESS
Con*ceit"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being conceited; conceit; vanity. Addison.

CONCEITLESS
Con*ceit"less, a.

Defn: Without wit; stupid. [Obs.]
Think'st thou I am so shallow, so conceitless. To be seduced by thy
flattery Shak.

CONCEIVABLE
Con*ceiv"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. concevable.]

Defn: Capable of being conceived, imagined, or understood. "Any
conceivable weight." Bp. Wilkins.
It is not conceivable that it should be indeed that very person whose
shape and voice it assumed. Atterbury.
-- Con*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Con*ceiv"a*bly, adv.

CONCEIVE
Con*ceive", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Conceived; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conceiving.] Etym: [OF. conzoivre, concever, conceveir, F. concevoir,
fr. L. oncipere to take, to conceive; con- + capere to seize or take.
See Capable, and cf. Conception.]

1. To receive into the womb and begin to breed; to begin the
formation of the embryo of.
She hath also conceived a son in her old age. Luke i. 36.

2. To form in the mind; to plan; to devise; to generate; to
originate; as, to conceive a purpose, plan, hope.
It was among the ruins of the Capitol that I first conceived the idea
of a work which has amused and exercised near twenty years of my
life. Gibbon.
Conceiving and uttering from the heart words of falsehood. Is. lix.
13.

3. To apprehend by reason or imagination; to take into the mind; to
know; to imagine; to comprehend; to understand. "I conceive you."
Hawthorne.
O horror, horror, horror! Tongue nor heart Cannot conceive nor name
thee! Shak.
You will hardly conceive him to have been bred in the same climate.
Swift.

Syn.
 -- To apprehend; imagine; suppose; understand; comprehend; believe;
think.

CONCEIVE
Con*ceive", v. i.

1. To have an embryo or fetus formed in the womb; to breed; to become
pregnant.
A virgin shall conceive, and bear a son. Isa. vii. 14.

2. To have a conception, idea, or opinion; think; -- with of.
Conceive of things clearly and distinctly in their own natures. I.
Watts.

CONCEIVER
Con*ceiv"er, n.

Defn: One who conceives.

CONCELEBRATE
Con*cel"e*brate, v. t. Etym: [L. concelebratus, p. p. of concelebrare
to concelebrate.]

Defn: To celebrate together. [Obs.] Holland.

CONCENT
Con*cent", n. Etym: [L. concentus, fr. concinere to sing together;
con- + canere to sing.]

1. Concert of voices; concord of sounds; harmony; as, a concent of
notes. [Archaic.] Bacon.
That undisturbed song of pure concent. Milton.

2. Consistency; accordance. [Obs.]
In concent to his own principles. Atterbury.

CONCENTER; CONCENTRE
Con*cen"ter, Con*cen"tre, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Concentered or
Concentred (; p. pr & vb. n. Concentering or Concentring (.] Etym:
[F. concentrer, fr. L. con- + centrum center. See Center, and cf.
Concentrate]

Defn: To come to one point; to meet in, or converge toward, a common
center; to have a common center.
God, in whom all perfections concenter. Bp. Beveridge.

CONCENTER; CONCENTRE
Con*cen"ter, Con*cen"tre, v. t.

Defn: To draw or direct to a common center; to bring together at a
focus or point, as two or more lines; to concentrate.
In thee concentering all their precious beams. Milton.
All is concentered in a life intense. Byren.

CONCENTRATE
Con*cen"trate ( or ), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Concentrated; p. pr. & vb.
n. Concentrating.] Etym: [Pref. con- + L. centrum center. Cf.
Concenter.]

1. To bring to, or direct toward, a common center; to unite more
closely; to gather into one body, mass, or force; to fix; as, to
concentrate rays of light into a focus; to concentrate the attention.
(He) concentrated whole force at his own camp. Motley.

2. To increase the strength and diminish the bulk of, as of a liquid
or an ore; to intensify, by getting rid of useless material; to
condense; as, to concentrate acid by evaporation; to concentrate by
washing; -- opposed to Ant: dilute.
Spirit of vinegar concentrated and reduced to its greatest strength.
Arbuthnot.

Syn.
 -- To combine; to condense; to consolidate.

CONCENTRATE
Con*cen"trate ( or ), v. i.

Defn: To approach or meet in a common center; to consolidate; as,
population tends to concentrate in cities.

CONCENTRATION
Con`cen*tra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. concentration.]

1. The act or process of concentrating; the process of becoming
concentrated, or the state of being concentrated; concentration.
Concentration of the lunar beams. Boyle.
Intense concetration of thought. Sir J. Herschel.

2. The act or process of reducing the volume of a liquid, as by
evaporation.
The acid acquires a higher degree of concentration. Knight.

3. (Metal.)

Defn: The act or process of removing the dress of ore and of reducing
the valuable part to smaller compass, as by currents of air or water.

CONCENTRATIVE
Con*cen"tra*tive, a.

Defn: Serving or tending to concentrate; characterized by
concentration.
A discrimination is only possible by a concentrative act, or act of
attention. Sir W. Hamilton.

CONCENTRATIVENESS
Con*cen"tra*tive*ness, n.

1. The quality of concentrating.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: The faculty or propensity which has to do with concentrating
the intellectual the intellectual powers. Combe.

CONCENTRATOR
Con"cen*tra`tor, n. (Mining)

Defn: An apparatus for the separation of dry comminuted ore, by
exposing it to intermittent puffs of air. Knight.

CONCENTRIC; CONCENTRICAL
Con*cen"tric, Con*cen"tric*al, a. Etym: [F. concentrique. See
Concenter.]

Defn: Having a common center, as circles of different size, one
within another.
Concentric circles upon the surface of the water. Sir I. Newton.
Concentrical rings like those of an onion. Arbuthnot.

CONCENTRIC
Con*cen"tric, n.

Defn: That which has a common center with something else.
Its pecular relations to its concentrics. Coleridge.

CONCENTRICALLY
Con*cen"tric*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a concentric manner.

CONCENTRICITY
Con`cen*tric"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being concentric.

CONCENTUAL
Con*cen"tu*al, a. [From Concent.]

Defn: Possesing harmony; accordant. [R.] Warton.

CONCEPT
Con"cept, n. Etym: [L. conceptus (cf. neut. conceptum fetus), p. p.
of concipere to conceive: cf. F. concept. See Conceit.]

Defn: An abstract general conception; a notion; a universal.
The words conception, concept, notion, should be limited to the
thought of what can not be represented in the imagination; as, the
thought suggested by a general term. Sir W. Hamilton.

CONCEPTACLE
Con*cep"ta*cle, n. Etym: [L. conceptaculum, fr. concipere to receive.
See Conceive.]

1. That in which anything is contained; a vessel; a receiver or
receptacle. [Obs.] Woodward.

2. (Bot.)
(a) A pericarp, opening longitudinally on one side and having the
seeds loose in it; a follicle; a double follicle or pair of
follicles.
(b) One of the cases containing the spores, etc., of flowerless
plants, especially of algae.

CONCEPTIBILITY
Con*cep`ti*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being conceivable; conceivableness. Cudworth.

CONCEPTIBLE
Con*cep"ti*ble, a. Etym: [See Conceive.]

Defn: Capable of being conceived; conceivable. Sir M. Hale.

CONCEPTION
Con*cep"tion, n. Etym: [F. conception, L. conceptio, fr. concipere to
conceive. See Conceive.]

1. The act of conceiving in the womb; the initiation of an embryonic
animal life.
I will greaty multiply thy sorrow and thy conception. Gen. iii. 16.

2. The state of being conceived; beginning.
Joy had the like conception in our eyes. Shak.

3. The power or faculty of apprehending of forming an idea in the
mind; the power of recalling a past sensation or perception.
Under the article of conception, I shall confine myself to that
faculty whose province it is to enable us to form a notion of our
past sensations, or of the objects of sense that we have formerly
perceived. Stewart.

4. The formation in the mind of an image, idea, or notion,
apprehension.
Conception consists in a conscious act of the understanding, bringing
any given object or impression into the same class with any number of
other objects or impression, by means of some character or characters
common to them all. Coleridge.

5. The image, idea, or notion of any action or thing which is formed
in the mind; a concept; a notion; a universal; the product of a
rational belief or judgment. See Concept.
He [Herodotus] says that the sun draws or attracts the water; a
metaphorical term obviously intended to denote some more general and
abstract conception than that of the visible operation which the word
primarily signifies. Whewell.

6. Idea; purpose; design.
Note this dangerous conception. Shak.

7. Conceit; affected sentiment or thought. [Obs.]
He . . . is full of conceptions, points of epigram, and witticism.
Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Idea; notion; perception; apprehemsion; comprehension.

CONCEPTIONAL
Con*cep"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to conception.

CONCEPTIONALIST
Con*cep"tion*al*ist, n.

Defn: A conceptualist.

CONCEPTIOUS
Con*cep"tious, a.

Defn: Apt to conceive; fruitful. [Obs.] Shak.

CONCEPTIVE
Con*cep"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. conceptif, L. conceptivus.]

Defn: Capable of conceiving. Sir T. Browne

CONCEPTUAL
Con*cep"tu*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to conception.

CONCEPTUALISM
Con*cep"tu*al*ism, n. (Metaph.)

Defn: A theory, intermediate between realism and nominalism, that the
mind has the power of forming for itself general conceptions of
individual or single objects. Stewart.

CONCEPTUALIST
Con*cep"tu*al*ist, n. (Metaph.)

Defn: One who maintains the theory of conceptualism. Stewart.

CONCERN
Con*cern", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Concerned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Concerning.] Etym: [F. concerner, LL. concernere to regard, concern,
fr. L. concernere to mix or mingle together, as in a sieve for
separating; con- + cernere to separate, sift, distinguish by the
senses, and especially by the eyes, to perceive, see. See Certain.]

1. To relate or belong to; to have reference to or connection with;
to affect the interest of; to be of importance to.
Preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching those things which concern
the Lord Jesus Christ. Acts xxviii. 31.
Our wars with France have affected us in our most tender interests,
and concerned us more than those with any other nation. Addison.
It much concerns a preacher first to learn The genius of his audience
and their turn. Dodsley.
Ignorant, so far as the usual instruction is concerned. J. F. Cooper.

2. To engage by feeling or sentiment; to interest; as, a good prince
concerns himself in the happiness of his subjects.
They think themselves out the reach of Providence, and no longer
concerned to solicit his favor. Rogers.

CONCERN
Con*cern", v. i.

Defn: To be of importance. [Obs.]
Which to deny concerns more than avails. Shak.

CONCERN
Con*cern", n.

1. That which relates or belongs to one; business; affair.
The private concerns of fanilies. Addison.

2. That which affects the welfare or happiness; interest; moment.
Mysterious secrets of a high concern. Roscommon.

3. Interest in, or care for, any person or thing; regard; solicitude;
anxiety.
O Marcia, let me hope thy kind concerns And gentle wishes follow me
to beattle. {\*\bkmkstart last}\error \*\bkmkend last}Addison.

4. (Com.)

Defn: Persons connected in business; a firm and its business; as, a
banking concern. The whole concern, all connected with a particular
affair or business.

Syn.
 -- Care; anxiety; solicitude; interest; regard; business; affair;
matter; moment. See Care.

CONCERNED
Con*cerned", a. Etym: [See Concern, v. t., 2.]

Defn: Disturbed; troubled; solicitous; as, to be much concerned for
the safety of a friend.

CONCERNEDLY
Con*cern"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a concerned manner; solicitously; sympathetically.

CONCERNING
Con*cern"ing, prep.

Defn: Pertaining to; regarding; having relation to; respecting; as
regards.
I have accepted thee concerning this thing. Gen. xix. 21.
The Lord hath spoken good concerning Israel. Num. x. 29.

CONCERNING
Con*cern"ing, a.

Defn: Important. [Archaic]
So great and so concerning truth. South.

CONCERNING
Con*cern"ing, n.

1. That in which one is concerned or interested; concern; affair;
interest. "Our everlasting concernments." I. Watts.
To mix with thy concernments I desist. Milton.

2. Importance; moment; consequence.
Let every action of concernment to begun with prayer. Jer. Taylor.

3. Concern; participation; interposition.
He married a daughter to the earl without any other approbation of
her father or concernment in it, than suffering him and her come into
his presence. Clarendon.

4. Emotion of mind; solicitude; anxiety.
While they are so eager to destory the fame of others, their ambition
is manifest in their concernment. Dryden.

CONCERT
Con*cert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Concerted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Concerting.] Etym: [F. concerter, It. concertare, conertare, prob.
from L. consertus, p. p. of conserere to join together; con- + serere
to join together, influenced by concertare to contend; con- + centare
to strive; properly, to try to decide; fr. cernere to distinguish.
See Series, and cf. Concern.]

1. To plan together; to settle or adjust by conference, agreement, or
consultation.
It was concerted to begin the siege in March. Bp. Burnet.

2. To plan; to devise; to arrange.
A commander had more trouble to concert his defense before the people
than to plan . . . the compaign. Burke.

CONCERT
Con*cert", v. i.

Defn: To act in harmony or conjunction; to form combined plans.
The ministers of Denmark were appointed to concert with Talbot. Bp.
Burnet

CONCERT
Con"cert, n. Etym: [F. concert, It. concerto, conserto, fr.
concertare. See Concert, v. t.]

1. Agreement in a design or plan; union formed by mutual
communication of opions and viewa; accordance in a scheme; harmony;
simultaneous action.
All these discontens, how ruinous soever, have arisen from the want
of a due communication and concert. Swift.

2. Musical accordance or harmony; concord.
Let us in concert to the season sing. Cowper.

3. A musical entertainment in which several voices or instruments
take part.
Visit by night your lady's chamber window With some sweet concert.
Shak.
And boding screech owls make the concert full. Shak.
Concert pitch. See under Pitch.

CONCERTANTE
Con`cer*tan"te (; It. ), n. Etym: [It., orig p. pr. of concertare to
form or perform a concert. See Concert.] (Mus.)

Defn: A concert for two or more principal instruments, with
orchestral accompaniment. Also adjectively; as, concertante parts.

CONCERTATION
Con`cer*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. concertatio.]

Defn: Strife; contention. [Obs.] Bailey.

CONCERTATIVE
Con*cer"ta*tive, a. Etym: [L. concertativus.]

Defn: Contentious; quarrelsome. [Obs.] Bailey.

CONCERTED
Con*cert"ed, a.

Defn: Mutually contrived or planned; agreed on; as, concerted
schemes, signals. Concerted piece (Mus.), a composition in parts for
several voices or instrument, as a trio, a quartet, etc.

CONCERTINA
Con`cer*ti"na, n. Etym: [From It. concerto a concert.]

Defn: A small musical imstrument on the principle of the accordion.
It is a small elastic box, or bellows, having free reeds on the
inside, and keys and handles on the outside of each of the two
hexagonal heads.

CONCERTINO
Con`cer*ti"no, n. Etym: [See Concertina.] (Mus.)

Defn: A piece for one or more solo instruments with orchestra; --
more concise than the concerto.

CONCERTION
Con*cer"tion, n.

Defn: Act of concerting; adjustment. [R.] Young.

CONCERTMEISTER
Con*cert`meis"ter, n. Etym: [G.] (Mus.)

Defn: The head violinist or leader of the strings in an orchestra;
the sub-leader of the orchestra; concert master.

CONCERTO
Con*cer"to (; It. ), n.; pl. Concertos. Etym: [It. See Concert, n.]
(Mus.)

Defn: A composition (usually in symphonic form with three movements)
in which one instrument (or two or three) stands out in bold relief
against the orchestra, or accompaniment, so as to display its
qualities or the performer's skill.

CONCERT OF EUROPE; EUROPEAN CONCERT
Concert of Europe, or European concert.

Defn: An agreement or understanding between the chief European powers
to take only joint action in the (European) Eastern Question.

CONCERT OF THE POWERS
Concert of the powers.

Defn: An agreement or understanding between the chief European
powers, the United States, and Japan in 1900 to take only joint
action in the Chinese aspect of the Eastern Question.

CONCESSION
Con*ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. concessio, fr. concedere: cf. F.
concession. See Concede.]

1. The act of conceding or yielding; usually implying a demand,
claim, or request, and thus distinguished from giving, which is
voluntary or spontaneous.
By mutual concession the business was adjusted. Hallam.

2. A thing yielded; an acknowledgment or admission; a boon; a grant;
esp. a grant by government of a privilege or right to do something;
as, a concession to build a canal.
This is therefore a concession , that he doth . . . believe the
Scriptures to be sufficiently plain. Sharp.
When a lover becomes satisfied by small compliances without further
pursuits, then expect to find popular assemblies content with small
concessions. Swift.

CONCESSIONAIRE; CONCESSIONNAIRE
Con*ces`sion*aire",  Con`ces`sion`naire", n. [F. concessionnaire.]

Defn: The beneficiary of a concession or grant.

CONCESSIONARY
Con*ces"sion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a concession. -- n.; pl. -ries.

Defn: A concessionaire.

CONCESSIONIST
Con*ces"sion*ist, n.

Defn: One who favors concession.

CONCESSIVE
Con*ces"sive, a. Etym: [L. concessivus.]

Defn: Implying concession; as, a concessive conjunction. Lowth.

CONCESSIVELY
Con*ces"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of concession.

CONCESSORY
Con*ces"so*ry, a.

Defn: Conceding; permissive.

CONCETTISM
Con*cet"tism, n.

Defn: The use of concetti or affected conceits. [R.] C. Kingsley.

CONCETTO
Con*cet"to (; It. ), n.; pl. Concetti. Etym: [It., fr. L. conceptus.
See Conceit.]

Defn: Affected wit; a conceit. Chesterfield.

CONCH
Conch, n. Etym: [L. concha, Gr. Coach, n.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name applied to various marine univalve shells; esp. to those
of the genus Strombus, which are of large size. S. gigas is the large
pink West Indian conch. The large king, queen, and cameo conchs are
of the genus Cassis. See Cameo.

Note: The conch is sometimes used as a horn or trumpet, as in fogs at
sea, or to call laborers from work.

2. In works of art, the shell used by Tritons as a trumpet.

3. One of the white natives of the Bahama Islands or one of their
descendants in the Florida Keys; -- so called from the commonness of
the conch there, or because they use it for food.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: See Concha, n.

5. The external ear. See Concha, n., 2.

CONCHA
Con"cha, n. Etym: [LL. (in sense 1), fr. concha. See Conch.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: The plain semidome of an apse; sometimes used for the entire
apse.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The external ear; esp. the largest and deepest concavity of the
external ear, surrounding the entrance to the auditory canal.

CONCHAL
Con"chal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the concha, or external ear; as, the conchal
cartilage.

CONCHIFER
Con"chi*fer, n. Etym: [Cf. F. conchofère.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Conchifera.

CONCHIFERA
Con*chif"e*ra, n, pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. concha + ferre to bear.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: That class of Mollusca which includes the bivalve shells; the
Lamellibranchiata. See Mollusca.

CONCHIFEROUS
Con*chif"er*ous, a.

Defn: Producing or having shells.

CONCHIFORM
Con"chi*form, a. Etym: [Conch + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like one half of a bivalve shell; shell-shaped.

CONCHININE
Con"chi*nine ( or ), n. Etym: [Formed by transposition fr.
cinchonine.]

Defn: See Quinidine.

CONCHITE
Con"chite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. conchite. See Conch.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil or petrified conch or shell.

CONCHITIC
Con*chit"ic, a.

Defn: Composed of shells; containing many shells.

CONCHOID
Con"choid, n. Etym: [Gr. conchoïde.] (Geom.)

Defn: A curve, of the fourth degree, first made use of by the Greek
geometer, Nicomedes, who invented it for the purpose of trisecting an
angle and duplicating the cube.

CONCHOIDAL
Con*choid"al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. conchoïdal.] (Min.)

Defn: Having elevations or depressions in form like one half of a
bivalve shell; -- applied principally to a surface produced by
fracture.

CONCHOLOGICAL
Con`cho*log"ic*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or connected with, conchology.

CONCHOLOGIST
Con*chol"o*gist, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One who studies, or is versed in, conchology.

CONCHOLOGY
Con*chol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Conch + -logy.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The science of Mollusca, and of the shells which they form;
malacology.

CONCHOMETER
Con*chom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Conch + -meter.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring shells, or the angle of their
spire.

CONCHOMETRY
Con*chom"e*try, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The art of measuring shells or their curves; conchyliometry.

CONCHO-SPIRAL
Con`cho-spi"ral, n.

Defn: A kind of spiral curve found in certain univalve shells.
Agassiz.

CONCHYLACEOUS; CONCHYLIACEOUS
Con`chy*la"ceous, Con*chyl`i*a"ceous, a. Etym: [L. conchylium shell,
Gr. Conch.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to shells; resembling a shell; as,
conchyliaceous impressions. Kirwan.

CONCHYLIOLOGIST; CONCHYLIOLOGY
Con*chyl`i*ol"o*gist, n., Con*chyl`i*ol"o*gy, n.

Defn: See Conchologist, and Conchology.

CONCHYLIOMETRY
Con*chyl`i*om"e*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -metry.]

Defn: Same as Conchometry.

CONCHYLIOUS
Con*chyl"i*ous, a.

Defn: Conchylaceous.

CONCIATOR
Con"ci*a`tor, n. Etym: [It. conciatore, fr. conciare to adjust,
dress, fr. L. comtus, p. p. See Compt, a.] (Glass Works)

Defn: The person who weighs and proportions the materials to be made
into glass, and who works and tempers them.

CONCIERGE
Con`cierge", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: One who keeps the entrance to an edifice, public or private; a
doorkeeper; a janitor, male or female.

CONCIERGERIE
Con`cier`ge*rie", n. [F.]

1. The office or lodge of a concierge or janitor.

2.  A celebrated prison, attached to the Palais de Justice in Paris.

CONCILIABLE
Con*cil"i*a*ble, n. Etym: [L. conciliabulum, fr. concitium assembly:
cf. F. conciliabule. See Council.]

Defn: A small or private assembly, especially of an ecclesiastical
nature. [Obs.] Bacon.

CONCILIABLE
Con*cil"i*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. conciliable.]

Defn: Capable of being conciliated or reconciled. Milton.

CONCILIABULE
Con*cil"i*a*bule, n. Etym: [See Conciliable, n.]

Defn: An obscure ecclesiastical council; a conciliable. Milman.

CONCILIAR; CONCILIARY
Con*cil"i*ar, Con*cil"i*a*ry a. Etym: [Cf. F. conciliare.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or issued by, a council. Jer. Taylor.

CONCILIATE
Con*cil"i*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Conciliated; p. pr & vb. n.
Conciliating.] Etym: [L. conciliatus, p. p. of conciliare to draw or
bring together, unite, from concilium council. See Council.]

Defn: To win ower; to gain from a state of hostility; to gain the
good will or favor of; to make friendly; to mollify; to propitiate;
to appease.
The rapacity of his father's administration had excited such
universal discontent, that it was found expedient to conciliate the
nation. Hallam.

Syn.
 -- To reconcile; propitiate; appease; pacify.

CONCILIATION
Con*cil`i*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. conciliatio.]

Defn: The act or process of conciliating; the state of being
conciliated.
The house has gone further; it has declared conciliation admissible
previous to any submission on the part of America. Burke.

CONCILIATIVE
Con*cil"i*a*tive, a.

Defn: Conciliatory. Coleridge.

CONCILIATOR
Con*cil"i*a`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who conciliates.

CONCILIATORY
Con*cil"i*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Tending to conciliate; pacific; mollifying; propitiating.
The only alternative, therefore, was to have recourse to the
conciliatory policy. Prescott.

CONCINNATE
Con*cin"nate, v. t. Etym: [L. concinnatus, p. p. of concinnare to
concinnate. See Concinnity.]

Defn: To place fitly together; to adapt; to clear. [Obs.] Holland.

CONCINNITY
Con*cin"ni*ty, n. Etym: [L. concinnitas, fr. concinnus skillfully put
together, beautiful. Of uncertain origin.]

Defn: Internal harmony or fitness; mutual adaptation of parts;
elegance; -- used chiefly of style of discourse. [R.]
An exact concinnity and eveness of fancy. Howell.

CONCINNOUS
Con*cin"nous, a. Etym: [L. concinnus.]

Defn: Characterized by concinnity; neat; elegant. [R.]
The most concinnous and most rotund of proffessors, M. Heyne. De
Quiency.

CONCIONATE
Con"cio*nate, v. i. Etym: [L. concionatus, p. p. of concionari to
adress.]

Defn: To preach. [Obs.] Lithgow.

CONCIONATOR
Con"cio*na`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. An haranguer of the people; a preacher.

2. (Old Law)

Defn: A common councilman. [Obs.]

CONCIONATORY
Con"cio*na`to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to preaching or public addresses. [Obs.]
Howell.

CONCISE
Con*cise", a. Etym: [L. concisus cut off, short, p. p. of concidere
to cut to pieces; con- + caedere to cut; perh. akin to scindere to
cleave, and to E. shed, v.t.; cf. F. concis.]

Defn: Expressing much in a few words; condensed; brief and compacted;
-- used of style in writing or speaking.
The concise style, which expresseth not enough, but leaves somewhat
to be understood. B. Jonson.
Where the author is . . . too brief and concise, amplify a little. I.
Watts.

Syn.
 -- Laconic; terse; brief; short; compendious; summary; succinct. See
Laconic, and Terse.

CONCISELY
Con*cise"ly, adv.

Defn: In a concise manner; briefly.

CONCISENESS
Con*cise"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being concise.

CONCISION
Con*ci"sion, n. Etym: [L. concisio: cf. F. concision. See Concise.]

Defn: A cutting off; a division; a schism; a faction. South.

CONCITATION
Con`ci*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. concitatio. See Concite.]

Defn: The act of stirring up, exciting, or agitating. [Obs.] "The
concitation of humors." Sir T. Browne.

CONCITE
Con*cite", v. t. Etym: [L. concitare; con- + citare. See Cite.]

Defn: To excite or stir up. [Obs.] Cotgrave.

CONCLAMATION
Con`cla*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. conclamatio.]

Defn: An outcry or shout of many together. [R.]
Before his funeral conclamation. May (Lucan).

CONCLAVE
Con"clave ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [F., fr. L. conclave a room that may
locked up; con- + clavis key. See Clavicle.]

1. The set of apartments within which the cardinals of the Roman
Catholic Church are continuously secluded while engaged in choosing a
pope.

2. The body of cardinals shut up in the conclave for the election of
a pope; hence, the body of cardinals.
It was said a cardinal, by reason of his apparent likelihood to step
into St. Peter's chair, that in two conclaves he went in pope and
came out again cardinal. South.

3. A private meeting; a close or secret assembly.
The verdicts pronounced by this conclave (Johnson's Club) on new
books, were speedily known over all London. Macaulay.
To be in conclave, to be engaged in a secret meeting; -- said of
several, or a considerable number of, persons.

CONCLAVIST
Con"cla`vist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. conclaviste, It. conclavista.]

Defn: One of the two ecclesiastics allowed to attend a cardinal in
the conclave.

CONCLUDE
Con*clude", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Concluded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Concluding.] Etym: [L. concludere, conclusum; con- + claudere to
shut. See Close, v. t.]

1. To shut up; to inclose. [Obs.]
The very person of Christ [was] concluded within the grave. Hooker.

2. To include; to comprehend; to shut up together; to embrace. [Obs.]
For God hath concluded all in unbelief. Rom. xi. 32.
The Scripture hath concluded all under sin. Gal. iii. 22.

3. To reach as an end of reasoning; to infer, as from premises; to
close, as an argument, by inferring; -- sometimes followed by a
dependent clause.
No man can conclude God's love or hatred to any person by anything
that befalls him. Tillotson.
Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith. Rom. iii. 28.

4. To make a final determination or judgment concerning; to judge; to
decide.
But no frail man, however great or high, Can be concluded blest
before he die. Addison.
Is it concluded he shall be protector Shak.

5. To bring to an end; to close; to finish.
I will conclude this part with the speech of a counselor of state.
Bacon.

6. To bring about as a result; to effect; to make; as, to conclude a
bargain. "If we conclude a peace." Shak.

7. To shut off; to restrain; to limit; to estop; to bar; -- generally
in the passive; as, the defendant is concluded by his own plea; a
judgment concludes the introduction of further evidence argument.
If therefore they will appeal to revelation for their creation they
must be concluded by it. Sir M. Hale.

Syn.
 -- To infer; decide; determine; settle; close; finish; terminate;
end.

CONCLUDE
Con*clude", v. i.

1. To come to a termination; to make an end; to close; to end; to
terminate.
A train of lies, That, made in lust, conclude in perjuries. Dryden.
And, to conclude, The victory fell on us. Shak.

2. To form a final judgment; to reach a decision.
Can we conclude upon Luther's instability Bp. Atterbury.
Conclude and be agreed. Shak.

CONCLUDENCY
Con*clud"en*cy, n.

Defn: Deduction from premises; inference; conclusion. [Obs.] Sir M.
Hale.

CONCLUDENT
Con*clud"ent, a. Etym: [L. concludens, p. pr.]

Defn: Bringing to a close; decisive; conclusive. [Obs.]
Arguments highly consequential and concludent to my purpose. Sir M.
Hale.

CONCLUDER
Con*clud"er, n.

Defn: One who concludes.

CONCLUDINGLY
Con*clud"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: Conclusively. [R.] Digby.

CONCLUSIBLE
Con*clu"si*ble, a.

Defn: Demonstrable; determinable. [Obs.] Hammond.

CONCLUSION
Con*clu"sion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. conclusio. See Conclude.]

1. The last part of anything; close; termination; end.
A fluorish of trumpets announced the conclusion of the contest.
Prescott.

2. Final decision; determination; result.
And the conclusion is, she shall be thine. Shak.

3. Any inference or result of reasoning.

4. (Logic)

Defn: The inferred proposition of a syllogism; the necessary
consequence of the conditions asserted in two related propositions
called premises. See Syllogism.
He granted him both the major and minor, but denied him the
conclusion. Addison.

5. Drawing of inferences. [Poetic]
Your wife Octavia, with her modest eyes And still conclusion. Shak.

6. An experiment, or something from which a conclusion may be drawn.
[Obs.]
We practice likewise all conclusions of grafting and inoculating.
Bacon.

7. (Law)
(a) The end or close of a pleading, e.g., the formal ending of an
indictment, "against the peace," etc.
(b) An estoppel or bar by which a person is held to a particular
position. Wharton. Conclusion to the country (Law), the conclusion of
a pleading by which a party "puts himself upon the country," i.e.,
appeals to the verdict of a jury. Mozley & W.
 -- In conclusion. (a) Finally. (b) In short.
 -- To try conclusions, to make a trial or an experiment.
Like the famous ape, To try conclusions, in the basket creep. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Inference; deduction; result; consequence; end; decision. See
Inference.

CONCLUSIVE
Con*clu"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. conclusif.]

Defn: Belonging to a close or termination; decisive; convincing;
putting an end to debate or question; leading to, or involving, a
conclusion or decision.
Secret reasons . . . equally conclusive for us as they were for them.
Rogers.
Conclusive evidence (Law), that of which, from its nature, the law
allows no contradiction or explanation.
 -- Conclusive presumption (Law), an inference which the law makes so
peremptorily that it will not allow it to be overthrown by any
contrary proof, however strong.

Syn.
 -- Final; ultimate; unanswerable. See Final.

CONCLUSIVELY
Con*clu"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In the way of conclusion; decisively; positively. Burke.

CONCLUSIVENESS
Con*clu"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being conclusive; decisiveness.

CONCLUSORY
Con*clu"so*ry, a.

Defn: Conclusive. [R.]

CONCOCT
Con*coct", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Concocted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Concocting.] Etym: [L. concoctus, p. p. of concoquere to cook
together, to digest, mature; con- + coquere to cook. See Cook.]

1. To digest; to convert into nourishment by the organs of nutrition.
[Obs.]
Food is concocted, the heart beats, the blood circulates. Cheyne.

2. To purify or refine chemically. [Obs.] Thomson.

3. To prepare from crude materials, as food; to invent or prepare by
combining different ingredients; as, to concoct a new dish or
beverage.

4. To digest in the mind; to devise; to make up; to contrive; to
plan; to plot.
He was a man of a feeble stomach, unable to concoct any great
fortune. Hayward.

5. To mature or perfect; to ripen. [Obs.] Bacon.

CONCOCTER
Con*coct"er, n.

Defn: One who concocts.

CONCOCTION
Con*coc"tion, n. Etym: [L. concoctio.]

1. A change in food produced by the organs of nutrition; digestion.
[Obs.]

2. The act of concocting or preparing by combining different
ingredients; also, the food or compound thus prepared.

3. The act of digesting in the mind; planning or devising;
rumination. Donne.

4. (Med.)

Defn: Abatement of a morbid process, as a fever and return to a
normal condition. [Obs.]

5. The act of perfecting or maturing. [Obs.] Bacon.

CONCOCTIVE
Con*coct"ive, a.

Defn: Having the power of digesting or ripening; digestive.
Hence the concoctive powers, with various art, Subdue the cruder
aliments to chyle. J. Armstrong.

CONCOLOR
Con"col`or, a. Etym: [L. concolor; con- + color color.]

Defn: Of the same color; of uniform color. [R.] "Concolor animals."
Sir T. Browne.

CONCOLOROUS
Con"col`or*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of the same color throughout.

CONCOMITANCE; CONCOMITANCY
Con*com"i*tance, Con*com"i*tan*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. concomitance, fr.
LL. concomitantia.]

1. The state of accompanying; accompaniment.
The secondary action subsisteth not alone, but in concomitancy with
the other. Sir T. Browne.

2. (R.C.Ch.)

Defn: The doctrine of the existence of the entire body of Christ in
the eucharist, under each element, so that the body and blood are
both received by comunication in one kind only.

CONCOMITANT
Con*com"i*tant, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. con- + comitari to accompany,
comes companion. See Count a nobleman.]

Defn: Accompanying; conjoined; attending.
It has pleased our wise Creator to annex to several objects, as also
to several of our thoughts, a concomitant pleasure. Locke.

CONCOMITANT
Con*com"i*tant, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, accompanies, or is collaterally
connected with another; a companion; an associate; an accompaniment.
Reproach is a concomitant to greatness. Addison.
The other concomitant of ingratitude is hardheartedness. South.

CONCOMITANTLY
Con*com"i*tant*ly, adv.

Defn: In company with others; unitedly; concurrently. Bp. pearson.

CONCORD
Con"cord, n. Etym: [F. concorde, L. concordia, fr. concors of the
same mind, agreeing; con- + cor, cordis, heart. See Heart, and cf.
Accord.]

1. A state of agreement; harmony; union.
Love quarrels oft in pleasing concord end. Milton.

2. Agreement by stipulation; compact; covenant; treaty or league.
[Obs.]
The concord made between Henry and Roderick. Davies.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: Agreement of words with one another, in gender, number, person,
or case.

4. (Old Law)

Defn: An agreement between the parties to a fine of land in reference
to the manner in which it should pass, being an acknowledgment that
the land in question belonged to the complainant. See Fine. Burril.

5. Etym: [Prob. influenced by chord.] (Mus.)

Defn: An agreeable combination of tones simultaneously heard; a
consonant chord; consonance; harmony.

CONCORD
Con"cord, n.

Defn: A variety of American grape, with large dark blue (almost
black) grapes in compact clusters.

CONCORD
Con*cord", v. i. Etym: [F. concorder, L. concordare.]

Defn: To agree; to act together. [Obs.] Clarendon.

CONCORDABLE
Con*cord"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. concordabilis.]

Defn: Capable of according; agreeing; harmonious.

CONCORDANCE
Con*cord"ance, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. concordantia.]

1. Agreement; accordance.
Contrasts, and yet concordances. Carlyle.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Concord; agreement. [Obs.] Aschlam.

3. An alphabetical verbal index showing the places in the text of a
book where each principal word may be found, with its immediate
context in each place.
His knowledge of the Bible was such, that he might have been called a
living concordance. Macaulay.

4. A topical index or orderly analysis of the contents of a book.

CONCORDANCY
Con*cord"an*cy, n.

Defn: Agreement. W. Montagu.

CONCORDANT
Con*cord"ant, a. Etym: [L. concordans, p. pr. of concordare: cf. F.
concordant. See Concord.]

Defn: Agreeing; correspondent; harmonious; consonant.
Were every one employed in points concordant to their natures,
professions, and arts, commonwealths would rise up of themselves. Sir
T. Browne

CONCORDANTLY
Con*cord"ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a concordant manner.

CONCORDAT
Con*cor"dat, n. Etym: [F. concordat, L. concordato, prop. p. p. of
concordare. See Concord.]

1. A compact, covenant, or agreement concerning anything.

2. An agreement made between the pope and a sovereign or government
for the regulation of ecclesiastical matters with which both are
concerned; as, the concordat between Pope Pius VIL and Bonaparte in
1801. Hook.

CONCORD BUGGY
Con"cord bug"gy (kon"kerd). [From Concord, New Hampshire, where first
made.]

Defn: A kind of buggy having a body with low sides, and side springs.

CONCORDIST
Con*cord"ist, n.

Defn: The compiler of a concordance.

CONCORPORATE
Con*cor"po*rate, v. t. & i. Etym: [L. concorporatus, p. p. of
concorporare.]

Defn: To unite in one mass or body; to incorporate. [Archaic.] Jer.
Taylor.

CONCORPORATE
Con*cor"po*rate, a.

Defn: United in one body; incorporated. [Archaic] B. Jonson.

CONCORPORATION
Con*cor`po*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. concorporatio.]

Defn: Union of things in one mass or body. [R.] Dr. H. More.

CONCOURSE
Con"course, n. Etym: [F. concours, L. concursus, fr. concurrere to
run together. See Concur.]

1. A moving, flowing, or running together; confluence.
The good frame of the universe was not the product of chance or
fortuitous concourse of particles of matter. Sir M. Hale.

2. An assembly; a gathering formed by a voluntary or spontaneous
moving and meeting in one place.
Amidst the concourse were to be seen the noble ladies of Milan, in
gay, fantastic cars, shining in silk brocade. Prescott.

3. The place or point of meeting or junction of two bodies. [Obs.]
The drop will begin to move toward the concourse of the glasses. Sir
I. Newton.

4. An open space where several roads or paths meet; esp. an open
space in a park where several roads meet.

5. Concurrence; coöperation. [Obs.]
The divine providence is wont to afford its concourse to such
proceeding. Barrow.

CONCREATE
Con`cre*ate" ( or ), v. t.

Defn: To create at the same time.
If God did concreate grace with Adam. Jer. Taylor.

CONCREMATION
Con`cre*ma"tion ( or ), n. Etym: [L. concrematio, fr. concremare. See
Cremate.]

Defn: The act of burning different things together. [Obs.]

CONCREMENT
Con"cre*ment, n. Etym: [L. concrementum, fr. concrescere. See
Concrete.]

Defn: A growing together; the collection or mass formed by
concretion, or natural union. [Obs.]
The concrement of a pebble or flint. Sir M. Hale

CONCRESCENCE
Con*cres"cence, n. Etym: [L. concrescentia.]

Defn: Coalescence of particles; growth; increase by the addition of
particles. [R.] Sir W. Raleigh.

CONCRESCIBLE
Con*cres"ci*ble, a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Capable of being changed from a liquid to a solid state. [Obs.]
They formed a . . . fixed concrescible oil. Fourcroy (Trans. ).

CONCRESCIVE
Con*cres"cive, a.

Defn: Growing together, or into union; uniting. [R.] Eclec. Rev.

CONCRETE
Con"crete ( or ), a. Etym: [L. concretus, p. p. of concrescere to
grow together; con- + crescere to grow; cf. F. concret. See
Crescent.]

1. United in growth; hence, formed by coalition of separate particles
into one mass; united in a solid form.
The first concrete state, or consistent surface, of the chaos must be
of the same figure as the last liquid state. Bp. Burnet.

2. (Logic)
(a) Standing for an object as it exists in nature, invested with all
its qualities, as distingushed from standing for an attribute of an
object; -- opposed to abstract. Hence:
(b) Applied to a specific object; special; particular; -- opposed to
general. See Abstract, 3.
Concrete is opposed to a abstract. The names of individuals are
concrete, those of classes abstract. J. S. Mill.
Concrete terms, while they express the quality, do also express, or
imply, or refer to, some subject to which it belongs. I. Watts.
Concrete number, a number associated with, or applied to, a
particular object, as three men, five days, etc., as distinguished
from an abstract number, or one used without reference to a
particular object.
 -- Concrete quantity, a physical object or a collection of such
objects. Davies & Peck.
 -- Concrete science, a physical science, one having as its subject
of knowledge concrete things instead of abstract laws.
 -- Concrete sound or movement of the voice, one which slides
continuously up or down, as distinguished from a discrete movement,
in which the voice leaps at once from one line of pitch to another.
Rush.

CONCRETE
Con"crete, n.

1. A compound or mass formed by concretion, spontaneous union, or
coalescence of separate particles of matter in one body.
To divide all concretes, minerals and others, into the same number of
distinct substances. Boyle.

2. A mixture of gravel, pebbles, or broken stone with cement or with
tar, etc., used for sidewalks, roadways, foundations, etc., and esp.
for submarine structures.

3. (Logic)

Defn: A term designating both a quality and the subject in which it
exists; a concrete term.
The concretes "father" and "son" have, or might have, the abstracts
"paternity" and "filiety". J. S. Mill.

4. (Sugar Making)

Defn: Sugar boiled down from cane juice to a solid mass.

CONCRETE
Con*crete", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Concreted; p. pr & vb. n.
Concreting.]

Defn: To unite or coalesce, as separate particles, into a mass or
solid body.

Note: Applied to some substances, it is equivalent to indurate; as,
metallic matter concretes into a hard body; applied to others, it is
equivalent to congeal, thicken, inspissate, coagulate, as in the
concretion of blood. "The blood of some who died of the plague could
not be made to concrete." Arbuthnot.

CONCRETE
Con*crete", v. t.

1. To form into a mass, as by the cohesion or coalescence of separate
particles.
There are in our inferior world divers bodies that are concreted out
of others. Sir M. Hale.

2. To cover with, or form of, concrete, as a pavement.

CONCRETELY
Con*crete"ly, adv.

Defn: In a concrete manner.

CONCRETENESS
Con*crete"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being concrete.

CONCRETION
Con*cre"tion, n. Etym: [L. concretio.]

1. The process of concreting; the process of uniting or of becoming
united, as particles of matter into a mass; solidification.

2. A mass or nodule of solid matter formed by growing together, by
congelation, condensation, coagulation, induration, etc.; a clot; a
lump; a calculus.
Accidental ossifications or deposits of phosphates of lime in certain
organs . . . are called osseous concretions. Dunglison.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: A rounded mass or nodule produced by an aggregation of the
material around a center; as, the calcareous concretions common in
beds of clay.

CONCRETIONAL
Con*cre"tion*al, a.

Defn: Concretionary.

CONCRETIONARY
Con*cre"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or formed by, concretion or aggregation;
producing or containing concretions.

CONCRETIVE
Con*cre"tive, a.

Defn: Promoting concretion. Sir T. Browne.

CONCRETIVELY
Con*cre"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a concrete manner.

CONCRETURE
Con*cre"ture, n.

Defn: A mass formed by concretion. [Obs.] Johnson.

CONCREW
Con*crew", v. i. Etym: [See Concrete, a., and Accrue.]

Defn: To grow together. [Obs.] Spenser.

CONCRIMINATION
Con*crim`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: A joint accusation.

CONCUBINACY
Con*cu"bi*na*cy, n.

Defn: The practice of concubinage. [Obs.] Strype.

CONCUBINAGE
Con*cu"bi*nage, n.

1. The cohabiting of a man and a woman who are not legally married;
the state of being a concubine.

Note: In some countries, concubinage is marriage of an inferior kind,
or performed with less solemnity than a true or formal marriage; or
marriage with a woman of inferior condition, to whom the husband does
not convey his rank or quality. Under Roman law, it was the living of
a man and woman in sexual relations without marriage, but in
conformity with local law.

2. (Law)

Defn: A plea, in which it is alleged that the woman suing for dower
was not lawfully married to the man in whose lands she seeks to be
endowed, but that she was his concubine.

CONCUBINAL
Con*cu"bi*nal, a. Etym: [L. concubinalis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to concubinage.

CONCUBINARIAN
Con*cu`bi*na"ri*an, a. & n.

Defn: Concubinary.
The married and concubinarian, as well as looser clergy. Milman.

CONCUBINARY
Con*cu"bi*na*ry, a. Etym: [LL. concubinarius.]

Defn: Relating to concubinage; living in concubinage.

CONCUBINARY
Con*cu"bi*na*ry, n.; pl. Concubinaries.

Defn: One who lives in concubinage. Jer. Taylor.

CONCUBINATE
Con*cu"bi*nate, n. Etym: [L. concubinatus.]

Defn: Concubinage. [Obs.] Johnson.

CONCUBINE
Con"cu*bine, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. concubina; con- + cubare to lie
down, concumbere to lie together, akin to E. cubit.]

1. A woman who cohabits with a man without being his wife; a
paramour.

Note: Concubine has been sometimes, but rarely, used of a male
paramour as well as of a female. Trench.

2. A wife of inferior condition; a lawful wife, but not united to the
man by the usual ceremonies, and of inferior condition. Such were
Hagar and Keturah, the concubines of Abraham; and such concubines
were allowed by the Roman laws. Their children were not heirs of
their father.

CONCULCATE
Con*cul"cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Concultated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conculcating.] Etym: [L. conculcatus, p. p. of conculcare to
conculcate fr. calx heel.]

Defn: To tread or trample under foot. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu --
Con`cul*ca"tion (, n. [Obs.]

CONCUPISCENCE
Con*cu"pis*cence, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. concupiscentia.]

Defn: Sexual lust; morbid carnal passion.
Concupiscence like a pestilence walketh in darkness. Horne.

CONCUPISCENT
Con*cu"pis*cent, a. Etym: [L. concupiscens, p. pr. of concupiscere,
v. incho. of concupere to long for; con- + cupere. See Covet.]

Defn: Having sexual lust; libidinous; lustful; lecherous; salacious.
Johnson.

CONCUPISCENTIAL
Con*cu`pis*cen"tial, a.

Defn: Relating to concupiscence. [Obs.] Johnson.

CONCUPISCENTIOUS
Con*cu`pis*cen"tious, a.

Defn: Concupiscent. [Obs.]

CONCUPISCIBLE
Con*cu`pis*ci*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. concupiscible.]

1. Exciting to, or liable to be affected by, concupiscence; provoking
lustful desires. Shak.

2. Exciting desire, good or evil.
The schools reduce all the passions to these two heads, the
concupiscible and irascible appetite. South.

CONCUPISCIBLENESS
Con*cu"pis*ci*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being concupiscible. [Obs.]

CONCUPY
Con"cu*py, n.

Defn: Concupiscence.

Note: [Used only in "Troilus and Cressida"] Shak.

CONCUR
Con*cur", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Concurred (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Concurring.] Etym: [L. concurrere to run together, agree; con- +
currere to run. See Current.]

1. To run together; to meet. [Obs.]
Anon they fierce encountering both concurred With grisly looks and
faces like their fates. J. Hughes.

2. To meet in the same point; to combine or conjoin; to contribute or
help toward a common object or effect.
When outward causes concur. Jer. Colier.

3. To unite or agree (in action or opinion); to join; to act jointly;
to agree; to coincide; to correspond.
Mr. Burke concurred with Lord Chatham in opinion. Fox.
Tories and Whigs had concurred in paying honor to Walker. Makaulay.
This concurs directly with the letter. Shak.

4. To assent; to consent. [Obs.] Milton.

Syn.
 -- To agree; unite; combine; conspire; coincide; approve; acquiesce;
assent.

CONCURRENCE
Con*cur"rence, n. Etym: [F., competition, equality of rights, fr. LL.
concurrentia competition.]

1. The act of concurring; a meeting or coming together; union;
conjunction; combination.
We have no other measure but our own ideas, with the concurence of
other probable reasons, to persuade us. Locke.

2. A meeting of minds; agreement in opinion; union in design or act;
-- implying joint approbation.
Tarquin the Proud was expelled by the universal concurrence of nobles
and people. Swift.

3. Agreement or consent, implying aid or contribution of power or
influence; coöperation.
We collect the greatness of the work, and the necessity of the divine
concurrence to it. Rogers.
An instinct that works us to its own purposes without our
concurrence. Burke.

4. A common right; coincidence of equal powers; as, a concurrence of
jurisdiction in two different courts.

CONCURRENCY
Con*cur"ren*cy, n.

Defn: Concurrence.

CONCURRENT
Con*cur"rent, a. Etym: [F. concurrent, L. concurrens, p. pr. of
concurrere.]

1. Acting in conjunction; agreeing in the same act or opinion;
contibuting to the same event of effect; coöperating.
I join with these laws the personal presence of the kings' son, as a
concurrent cause of this reformation. Sir J. Davies.
The concurrent testimony of antiquity. Bp. Warburton.

2. Conjoined; associate; concomitant; existing or happening at the
same time.
There is no difference the concurrent echo and the iterant but the
quickness or slowness of the return. Bacon.
Changes . . . concurrent with the visual changes in the eye. Tyndall.

3. Joint and equal in authority; taking cognizance of similar
questions; operating on the same objects; as, the concurrent
jurisdiction of courts.

4. (Geom.)

Defn: Meeting in one point.

Syn.
 -- Meeting; uniting; accompanying; conjoined; associated;
coincident; united.

CONCURRENT
Con*cur"rent, n.

1. One who, or that which, concurs; a joint or contributory cause.
To all affairs of importance there are three necessary concurrents .
. . time, industry, and faculties. Dr. H. More.

2. One pursuing the same course, or seeking the same objects; hence,
a rival; an opponent.
Menander . . . had no concurrent in his time that came near unto him.
Holland.

3. (Chron.)

Defn: One of the supernumerary days of the year over fifty-two
complete weeks; -- so called because they concur with the solar
cycle, the course of which they follow.

CONCURRENTLY
Con*cur"rent*ly, adv.

Defn: With concurrence; unitedly.

CONCURRENTNESS
Con*cur"rent*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being concurrent; concurrence.

CONCURRING
Con*cur"ring, a.

Defn: Agreeing. Concurring figure (Geom.), one which, being laid on
another, exactly meets every part of it, or one which correspondends
with another in all its parts.

CONCUSS
Con*cuss", v. t. Etym: [L. concussus, p. p. of concutere. See
Concussion.]

1. To shake or agitate. "Concussed with uncertainty." Daniel.

2. (Law)

Defn: To force (a person) to do something, or give up something, by
intimidation; to coerce. Wharton.

CONCUSSATION
Con`cus*sa"tion, n.

Defn: A violent shock or agitation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

CONCUSSION
Con*cus"sion, n. Etym: [L. concussio, fr. concutere, concussum, to
shake violenty; con- + quatere to shake. See Cashier, Quash.]

1. A shaking or agitation; a shock; caused by the collision of two
bodies.
It is believed that great ringing of bells, in populous cities, hath
dissipated pestilent air; which may be from the concussion of the
air. Bacon.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A condition of lowered functional activity, without visible
structural change, produced in an organ by a shock, as by fall or
blow; as, a concussion of the brain.

3. (Civil Law)

Defn: The unlawful forcing of another by threats of violence to yield
up something of value.
Then concussion, rapine, pilleries, Their catalogue of accusations
fill. Daniel.
Concussion fuse (Mil.), one that is ignited by the concussion of the
shell when it strikes.

Syn.
 -- See Shock.

CONCUSSIVE
Con*cus"sive, a.

Defn: Having the power or quality of shaking or agitating. Johnson.

COND
Cond, v. t. Etym: [OE. conduen, condien, F. conduire to conduct, fr.
L. conducere. See Conduct, and cf. Con (Naut.), Conn. Cun.] (Naut.)

Defn: To con, as a ship.

CONDEMN
Con*demn", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Condemned; p. pr. & vb. n. Condemning
( or ]. Etym: [L. condemnare; con- + damnare to condemn: cf. F.
condamner. See Damn.]

1. To pronounce to be wrong; to disapprove of; to censure.
Condemn the fault, and not the actor of it! Why, every fault's
condemned ere it be done. Shak.
Wilt thou condemn him that is most just Job xxxiv. 17.

2. To declare the guilt of; to make manifest the faults or
unworthiness of; to convict of guilt.
The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with this
generation, and shall condemn it. Matt. xii. 42.

3. To pronounce a judicial sentence against; to sentence to
punishment, suffering, or loss; to doom; -- with to before the
penalty.
Driven out from bliss, condemned In this abhorred deep to utter woe.
Milton.
To each his sufferings; all are men, Condemned alike to groan. Gray.
And they shall condemn him to death. Matt. xx. 18.
The thief condemned, in law already dead. Pope.
No flocks that range the valley free, To slaughter I condemn.
Goldsmith.

4. To amerce or fine; -- with in before the penalty.
The king of Egypt . . . condemned the land in a hundred talents of
silver. 2 Cron. xxxvi. 3.

5. To adjudge or pronounce to be unfit for use or service; to adjudge
or pronounce to be forfeited; as, the ship and her cargo were
condemned.

6. (Law)

Defn: To doom to be taken for public use, under the right of eminent
domain.

Syn.
 -- To blame; censure; reprove; reproach; upbraid; reprobate;
convict; doom; sentence; adjudge.

CONDEMNABLE
Con"dem*na"ble, a. Etym: [L. condemnabilis.]

Defn: Worthy of condemnation; blamable; culpable.

CONDEMNATION
Con"dem*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. condemnatio.]

1. The act of condemning or pronouncing to be wrong; censure; blame;
disapprobation.
In every other sense of condemnation, as blame, censure, reproof,
private judgment, and the like. Paley.

2. The act of judicially condemning, or adjudging guilty, unfit for
use, or forfeited; the act of dooming to punishment or forfeiture.
A legal and judicial condemnation. Paley.
Whose condemnation is pronounced. Shak.

3. The state of being condemned.
His pathetic appeal to posterity in the hopeless hour of
condemnation. W. Irving.

4. The ground or reason of condemning.
This is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men
loved darkness rather light, because their deeds were evil. John iii.
19.

CONDEMNATORY
Con*dem"na*to*ry, a.

Defn: Condemning; containing or imposing condemnation or censure; as,
a condemnatory sentence or decree.

CONDEMNED
Con*demned", a.

1. Pronounced to be wrong, guilty, worthless, or forfeited; adjudged
or sentenced to punishment, destruction, or confiscation.

2. Used for condemned persons.
Richard Savage . . . had lain with fifty pounds weight of irons on
his legs in the condemned ward of Newgate. Macaulay.

CONDEMNER
Con*dem"ner ( or ), n.

Defn: One who condemns or censures.

CONDENSABILITY
Con*den`sa*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capability of being condensed.

CONDENSABLE
Con*den"sa*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. condensable.]

Defn: Capable of being condensed; as, vapor is condensable.

CONDENSATE
Con*den"sate, a. Etym: [L. condensatus, p. p. of condensare. See
Condense, v. t.]

Defn: Made dense; condensed.
Water . . . thickened or condensate. Peacham.

CONDENSATE
Con*den"sate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Condensated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Condensating.]

Defn: To condense. [R.] Hammond.

CONDENSATION
Con`den*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. condensatio: cf. F. condensation.]

1. The act or process of condensing or of being condensed; the state
of being condensed.
He [Goldsmith] was a great and perhaps an unequaled master of the
arts of selection and condensation. Macaulay.

2. (Physics)

Defn: The act or process of reducing, by depression of temperature or
increase of pressure, etc., to another and denser form, as gas to the
condition of a liquid or steam to water.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: A rearrangement or concentration of the different constituents
of one or more substances into a distinct and definite compound of
greater complexity and molecular weight, often resulting in an
increase of density, as the condensation of oxygen into ozone, or of
acetone into mesitylene. Condensation product (Chem.), a substance
obtained by the polymerization of one substance, or by the union of
two or more, with or without separation of some unimportant side
products.
 -- Surface condensation, the system of condensing steam by contact
with cold metallic surfaces, in distinction from condensation by the
injection of cold water.

CONDENSATIVE
Con*den"sa*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. condensatif.]

Defn: Having the property of condensing.

CONDENSE
Con*dense", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Condensed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Condensing.] Etym: [L. condensare; con- + densare to make thick or
dense, densus thick, dense: cf. F. condenser. See Dense, and cf.
Condensate.]

1. To make more close, compact, or dense; to compress or concentrate
into a smaller compass; to consolidate; to abridge; to epitomize.
In what shape they choose, Dilated or condensed, bright or obscure.
Milton.
The secret course pursued at Brussels and at Madrid may be condensed
into the usual formula, dissimulation, procrastination, and again
dissimulation. Motley.

2. (Chem. & Physics)

Defn: To reduce into another and denser form, as by cold or pressure;
as, to condense gas into a liquid form, or steam into water.
Condensed milk, milk reduced to the consistence of very thick cream
by evaporation (usually with addition of sugar) for preservation and
transportation.
 -- Condensing engine, a steam engine in which the steam is condensed
after having exerted its force on the piston.

Syn.
 -- To compress; contract; crowd; thicken; concentrate; abridge;
epitomize; reduce.

CONDENSE
Con*dense", v. i.

1. To become more compact; to be reduced into a denser form.
Nitrous acid is gaseous at ordinary temperatures, but condenses into
a very volatile liquid at the zero of Fahrenheit. H. Spencer.

2. (Chem.)
(a) To combine or unite (as two chemical substances) with or without
separation of some unimportant side products.
(b) To undergo polymerization.

CONDENSE
Con*dense", a. Etym: [L. condensus.]

Defn: Condensed; compact; dense. [R.]
The huge condense bodies of planets. Bentley.

CONDENSER
Con*dens"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, condenses.

2. (Physic) (a) An instrument for condensing air or other elastic
fluids, consisting of a cylinder having a movable piston to force the
air into a receiver, and a valve to prevent its escape. (b) An
instrument for concentrating electricity by the effect of induction
between conducting plates separated by a nonconducting plate. (c) A
lens or mirror, usually of short focal distance, used to concentrate
light upon an object.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: An apparatus for receiving and condensing the volatile products
of distillation to a liquid or solid form, by cooling.

4. (Steam Engine)

Defn: An apparatus, separate from the cylinder, in which the exhaust
steam is condensed by the action of cold water or air. See Illust. of
Steam engine. Achromatic condenser (Optics), an achromatic lens used
as a condenser.
 -- Bull's-eye condenser, or Bull's-eye (Optics), a lens of short
focal distance used for concentrating rays of light.
 -- Injection condenser, a vessel in which steam is condensed by the
direct contact of water.
 -- Surface condenser, an apparatus for condensing steam, especially
the exhaust of a steam engine, by bringing it into contact with
metallic surface cooled by water or air.

CONDENSIBLE
Con*den"si*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being condensed; as, a gas condensible to a liquid
by cold.

CONDER
Cond"er, n. Etym: [From Cond.]

Defn: One who watches shoals of fish; a balker. See Balker.

CONDESCEND
Con`de*scend", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Condescended; p. pr. & vb. n.
Condescending.] Etym: [F. condescendre, LL. condescendere, fr. L.
con- + descendere. See Descend.]

1. To stoop or descend; to let one's self down; to submit; to waive
the privilege of rank or dignity; to accommodate one's self to an
inferior. "Condescend to men of low estate." Rom. xii. 16.
Can they think me so broken, so debased With corporal servitude, that
my mind ever Will condescend to such absurd commands Milton.
Spain's mighty monarch, In gracious clemency, does condescend, On
these conditions, to become your friend. Dryden.

Note: Often used ironically, implying an assumption of superiority.
Those who thought they were honoring me by condescending to address a
few words to me. F. W. Robinson.

2. To consent. [Obs.]
All parties willingly condescended heruento. R. Carew.

Syn.
 -- To yield; stoop; descend; deign; vouchsafe.

CONDESCENDENCE; CONDESCENDENCY
Con`de*scend"ence, Con`de*scend"en*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F.
condescendance.]

Defn: Condescension. [Obs.]

CONDESCENDINGLY
Con`de*scend"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a condescending manner. Atterbury.

CONDESCENSION
Con`de*scen"sion, n. Etym: [L. condescensio.]

Defn: The act of condescending; voluntary descent from one's rank or
dignity in intercourse with an inferior; courtesy toward inferiors.
It forbids pride . . . and commands humility, modesty, and
condescension to others. Tillotson.
Such a dignity and condescension . . . as are suitable to a superior
nature. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Complaisance; courtesy; affability.

CONDESCENT
Con`de*scent", n. Etym: [Cf. Condescend, Descent.]

Defn: An act of condescension. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

CONDIGN
Con*dign", a. Etym: [F. condigne, L. condignus very worthy; con- +
dignus worthy. See Deign, and cf. Digne.]

1. Worthy; suitable; deserving; fit. [Obs.]
Condign and worthy praise. Udall.
Herself of all that rule she deemend most condign. Spenser.

2. Deserved; adequate; suitable to the fault or crime. "Condign
censure." Milman.
Unless it were a bloody murderer . . . I never gave them condign
punishment. Shak.

CONDIGNITY
Con*dig"ni*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. condignité.] (Scholastic Theol.)

Defn: Merit, acguired by works, which can claim reward on the score
of general benevolence.
Such a worthiness of condignity, and proper merit of the heavenly
glory, cannot be found in any the best, most perfect, and excellent
of created beings. Bp. Bull.

CONDIGNLY
Con*dign"ly, adv.

Defn: According to merit.

CONDIGNNESS
Con*dign"ness, n.

Defn: Agreeableness to deserts; suitableness.

CONDIMENT
Con"di*ment, n. Etym: [L. condimentum, fr. condire. See Condite.]

Defn: Something used to give relish to food, and to gratify the
taste; a pungment and appetizing substance, as pepper or mustard;
seasoning.
As for radish and the like, they are for condiments, and not for
nourishment. Bacon.

CONDISCIPLE
Con`dis*ci"ple, n. Etym: [L. condiscipulus. See Disciple.]

Defn: A schoolfellow; a fellow-student. [R.]

CONDITE
Con"dite, a. Etym: [L. conditus, p. p. of condire to preserve,
pickle, season. See Recondite.]

Defn: Preserved; pickled. [Obs.] Burton.

CONDITE
Con*dite", v. t.

Defn: To pickle; to preserve; as, to condite pears, quinces, etc.
[Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

CONDITION
Con*di"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. conditio (better condicio)
agreement, compact, condition; con- + a root signifying to show,
point out, akin to dicere to say, dicare to proclaim, dedicate. See
Teach, Token.]

1. Mode or state of being; state or situation with regard to external
circumstances or influences, or to physical or mental integrity,
health, strength, etc.; predicament; rank; position, estate.
I am in my condition A prince, Miranda; I do think, a king. Shak.
And O, what man's condition can be worse Than his whom plenty starves
and blessings curse Cowley.
The new conditions of life. Darwin.

2. Essential quality; property; attribute.
It seemed to us a condition and property of divine powers and beings
to be hidden and unseen to others. Bacon.

3. Temperament; disposition; character. [Obs.]
The condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil. Shak.

4. That which must exist as the occasion or concomitant of something
else; that which is requisite in order that something else should
take effect; an essential qualification; stipulation; terms
specified.
I had as lief take her dowry with this condition, to be whipped at
the high cross every morning. Shak.
Many are apt to believe remission of sins, but they believe it
without the condition of repentance. Jer. Taylor.

5. (Law)

Defn: A clause in a contract, or agreement, which has for its object
to suspend, to defeat, or in some way to modify, the principal
obligation; or, in case of a will, to suspend, revoke, or modify a
devise or bequest. It is also the case of a future uncertain event,
which may or may not happen, and on the occurrence or non-occurrence
of which, the accomplishment, recission, or modification of an
obligation or testamentary disposition is made to depend. Blount.
Tomlins. Bouvier. Wharton. Equation of condition. (Math.) See under
Equation.
 -- On or Upon condition (that), used for if in introducing
conditional sentences. "Upon condition thou wilt swear to pay him
tribute . . . thou shalt be placed as viceroy under him." Shak.
 -- Conditions of sale, the terms on which it is proposed to sell
property by auction; also, the instrument containing or expressing
these terms.

Syn.
 -- State; situation; circumstances; station; case; mode; plight;
predicament; stipulation; qualification; requisite; article;
provision; arrangement. See State.

CONDITION
Con*di"tion, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Conditioned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conditioning.]

1. To make terms; to stipulate.
Pay me back my credit, And I'll condition with ye. Beau. & Fl.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: To impose upon an object those relations or conditions without
which knowledge and thought are alleged to be impossible.
To think of a thing is to condition. Sir W. Hamilton.

CONDITION
Con*di"tion, v. t. Etym: [Cf. LL. conditionare. See Condition, n.]

1. To invest with, or limit by, conditions; to burden or qualify by a
condition; to impose or be imposed as the condition of.
Seas, that daily gain upon the shore, Have ebb and flow conditioning
their march. Tennyson.

2. To contract; to stipulate; to agree.
It was conditioned between Saturn and Titan, that Saturn should put
to death all his male children. Sir W. Raleigh.

3. (U. S. Colleges)

Defn: To put under conditions; to require to pass a new examination
or to make up a specified study, as a condition of remaining in one's
class or in college; as, to condition a student who has failed in
some branch of study.

4. To test or assay, as silk (to ascertain the proportion of moisture
it contains). McElrath.

Defn: train; acclimate.

CONDITIONAL
Con*di"tion*al, a. Etym: [L. conditionalis.]

1. Containing, implying, or depending on, a condition or conditions;
not absolute; made or granted on certain terms; as, a conditional
promise.
Every covenant of God with man . . . may justly be made (as in fact
it is made) with this conditional punishment annexed and declared.
Bp. Warburton.

2. (Gram. & Logic)

Defn: Expressing a condition or supposition; as, a conditional word,
mode, or tense.
A conditional proposition is one which asserts the dependence of one
categorical proposition on another. Whately.
The words hypothetical and conditional may be . . . used
synonymously. J. S. Mill.

CONDITIONAL
Con*di"tion*al, n.

1. A limitation. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. A conditional word, mode, or proposition.
Disjunctives may be turned into conditionals. L. H. Atwater.

CONDITIONALITY
Con*di`tion*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being conditional, or limited; limitation by
certain terms.

CONDITIONALLY
Con*di"tion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a conditional manner; subject to a condition or conditions;
not absolutely or positively. Shak.

CONDITIONATE
Con*di"tion*ate, a. Etym: [LL. conditionatus, p. p. See Condition, v.
t.]

Defn: Conditional. [Obs.]
Barak's answer is faithful, though conditionate. Bp. Hall.

CONDITIONATE
Con*di"tion*ate, v. t.

1. To qualify by conditions; to regulate. [Obs.]

2. To put under conditions; to render conditional.

CONDITIONED
Con*di"tioned, a.

1. Surrounded; circumstanced; in a certain state or condition, as of
property or health; as, a well conditioned man.
The best conditioned and unwearied spirit. Shak.

2. Having, or known under or by, conditions or relations; not
independent; not absolute.
Under these, thought is possible only in the conditioned interval.
Sir W. Hamilton.

CONDITIONLY
Con*di"tion*ly, adv.

Defn: Conditionally. [Obs.]

CONDITORY
Con"di*to*ry, n.; pl. Conditories. Etym: [L. conditorium, fr. condere
to hide. See Recondite.]

Defn: A repository for holding things; a hinding place.

CONDOG
Con*dog", v. i. Etym: [A punning corruption of concur.]

Defn: To concur; to agree. [Burlesque]

Note: This word appears in early dictionaries as a synonym for the
word agree; thus. "Agree; concurre, cohere, condog, condescend."
Cockeram.

CONDOLATORY
Con*do"la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Expressing condolence. Smart.

CONDOLE
Con*dole", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Condoled; p. pr. & vb. n. Condoling.]
Etym: [L. condolere; con- + dolere to feel pain, grieve. See
Doleful.]

Defn: To express sympathetic sorrow; to grieve in sympathy; --
followed by with.
Your friends would have cause to rejoice, rather than condole with
you. Sir W. Temple.

CONDOLE
Con*dole", v. t.

Defn: To lament or grieve over. [R.]
I come not, Samson, to condole thy chance. Milton.

CONDOLEMENT
Con*dole"ment, n.

1. Condolence. "A pitiful condolement." Milton.

2. Sorrow; mourning; lamentation. Shak.

CONDOLENCE
Con*do"lence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. condoléance.]

Defn: Expression of sympathy with another in sorrow or grief.
Their congratulations and their condolences. Steele.
A special mission of condolence. Macaulay.

CONDOLER
Con*dol"er, n.

Defn: One who condoles.

CONDONATION
Con`do*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. condonatio a giving away.]

1. The act of condoning or pardoning.

2. (Law)

Defn: Forgiveness, either express or implied, by a husband of his
wife or by a wife of her husband, for a breach of marital duty, as
adultery, with an implied condition that the offense shall not be
repeated. Bouvier. Wharton.

CONDONE
Con*done", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Condoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Condoning.]
Etym: [L. condonare, -donatum, to give up, remit, forgive; con- +
donare to give. See Donate.]

1. To pardon; to forgive.
A fraud which he had either concocted or condoned. W. Black.
It would have been magnanimous in the men then in power to have
overlooked all these things, and, condoning the politics, to have
rewarded the poetry of Burns. J. C. Shairp.

2. (Law)

Defn: To pardon; to overlook the offense of; esp., to forgive for a
violation of the marriage law; -- said of either the husband or the
wife.

CONDOR
Con"dor, n. Etym: [Sp. condor, fr. Peruvian cuntur.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very large bird of the Vulture family (Sarcorhamphus
gryphus), found in the most elevated parts of the Andes.

CONDOTTIERE
Con`dot*tie"re, n.; pl. Condottieri. Etym: [It., captain.]

Defn: A military adventurer of the fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries, who sold his services, and those of his followers, to any
party in any contest.

CONDUCE
Con*duce", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Conduced; p. pr. & vb. n. Conducing.]
Etym: [L. conducere to bring together, conduce, hire; con- + ducere
to lead. See Duke and cf. Conduct, n., Cond.]

Defn: To lead or tend, esp. with reference to a favorable or
desirable result; to contribute; -- usually followed by to or toward.
He was sensible how much such a union would conduce to the happiness
of both. Macaulay.
The reasons you allege do more conduce To the hot passion of
distemper'd blood. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To contribute; aid; assist; tend; subserve.

CONDUCE
Con*duce", v. t.

Defn: To conduct; to lead; to guide. [Obs.]
He was sent to conduce hither the princess. Sir H. Wotton.

CONDUCENT
Con*du"cent, a. Etym: [L. conducens, p. pr.]

Defn: Conducive; tending.
Conducent to the good success of this business. Abp. Laud.

CONDUCIBILITY
Con*du"ci*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being conducible; conducibleness. Bp.
Wilkins.

CONDUCIBLE
Con*du"ci*ble, a. Etym: [L. conducibilis.]

Defn: Conducive; tending; contributing. Bacon.
All his laws are in themselves conducible to the temporal interest of
them that observe them. Bentley.

CONDUCIBLENESS
Con*du"ci*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being conducible.

CONDUCIBLY
Con*du"ci*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner to promote. [R.]

CONDUCIVE
Con*du"cive, a.

Defn: Loading or tending; helpful; contributive; tending to promote.
However conducive to the good or our country. Addison.

CONDUCIVENESS
Con*du"cive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of conducing.

CONDUCT
Con"duct, n. Etym: [LL. conductus defense, escort, fr. L. conductus,
p. p. of conducere. See Conduce, and cf. Conduit.]

1. The act or method of conducting; guidance; management.
Christianity has humanized the conduct of war. Paley.
The conduct of the state, the administration of its affairs. Ld.
Brougham.

2. Skillful guidance or management; generalship.
Conduct of armies is a prince's art. Waller.
Attacked the Spaniards . . . with great impetuosity, but with so
little conduct, that his forces were totally routed. Robertson.

3. Convoy; escort; guard; guide. [Archaic]
I will be your conduct. B. Jonson.
In my conduct shall your ladies come. Shak.

4. That which carries or conveys anything; a channel; a conduit; an
instrument. [Obs.]
Although thou been conduct of my chame. Shak.

5. The manner of guiding or carrying one's self; personal deportment;
mode of action; behavior.
All these difficulties were increased by the conduct of Shrewsbury.
Macaulay.
What in the conduct of our life appears So well designed, so luckily
begun, But when we have our wish, we wish undone Dryden.

6. Plot; action; construction; manner of development.
The book of Job, in conduct and diction. Macaulay.
Conduct money (Naut.), a portion of a seaman's wages retained till
the end of his engagement, and paid over only if his conduct has been
satisfactory.

Syn.
 -- Behavior; deportment; demeanor; bearing; management; guidance.
See Behavior.

CONDUCT
Con*duct", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Conducted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conducting.] Etym: [See Conduct, n.]

1. To lead, or guide; to escort; to attend.
I can conduct you, lady, to a low But loyal cottage, where you may be
safe. Milton.

2. To lead, as a commander; to direct; to manage; to carry on; as, to
conduct the affairs of a kingdom.
Little skilled in the art of conducting a siege. Prescott.

3. To behave; -- with the reflexive; as, he conducted himself well.

4. (Physics)

Defn: To serve as a medium for conveying; to transmit, as heat,
light, electricity, etc.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: To direct, as the leader in the performance of a musical
composition.

CONDUCT
Con*duct", v. i.

1. To act as a conductor (as of heat, electricity, etc.); to carry.

2. To conduct one's self; to behave. [U. S.]

CONDUCTANCE
Con*duct"ance (kon*duk"tans), n.  [Conduct, v. + -ance.] (Elec.)

Defn: Conducting power; -- the reciprocal of resistance. A suggested
unit is the mho, the reciprocal of the ohm.

Conductance is an attribute of any specified conductor, and refers to
its shape, length, and other factors. Conductivity is an attribute of
any specified material without direct reference to its shape or other
factors.
Sloane's Elec. Dict.

CONDUCTIBILITY
Con*duct`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. conductibilité.]

1. Capability of being conducted; as, the conductibility of heat or
electricity.

2. Conductivity; capacity for receiving and transmitting.

CONDUCTIBLE
Con*duct"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being conducted.

CONDUCTION
Con*duc"tion, n. Etym: [L. conductio a bringing together: cf. F.
conduction.]

1. The act of leading or guiding. Sir W. Raleigh.

2. The act of training up. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

3. (Physics)

Defn: Transmission through, or by means of, a conductor; also,
conductivity.
[The] communication [of heat] from one body to another when they are
in contact, or through a homogenous body from particle to particle,
constitutes conduction. Amer. Cyc.

CONDUCTIVE
Con*duct"ive, a.

Defn: Having the quality or power of conducting; as, the conductive
tissue of a pistil.
The ovarian walls . . . are seen to be distinctly conductive. Goodale
(Gray's Bot. ).

CONDUCTIVITY
Con`duc*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or power of conducting, or of receiving and
transmitting, as, the conductivity of a nerve. Thermal conductivity
(Physics), the quantity of heat that passes in unit time through unit
area of plate whose thickness is unity, when its opposite faces
differ in temperature by one degree. J. D. Everett.
 -- Thermometic conductivity (Physics), the thermal conductivity when
the unit of heat employed is the heat required to raise unit volume
of the substance one degree.

CONDUCTOR
Con*duct"or, n. Etym: [LL., a carrier, transporter, L., a lessee.]

1. One who, or that which, conducts; a leader; a commander; a guide;
a manager; a director.
Zeal, the blind conductor of the will. Dryden.

2. One in charge of a public conveyance, as of a railroad train or a
street car. [U. S.]

3. (Mus.)

Defn: The leader or director of an orchestra or chorus.

4. (Physics)

Defn: A substance or body capable of being a medium for the
transmission of certain forces, esp. heat or electricity;
specifically, a lightning rod.

5. (Surg.)

Defn: A grooved sound or staff used for directing instruments, as
lithontriptic forceps, etc.; a director.

6. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Leader. Prime conductor (Elec.), the largest conductor
of an electrical machine, serving to collect, accumulate, or retain
the electricity.

CONDUCTORY
Con*duct"o*ry, a. Etym: [LL. conductorius.]

Defn: Having the property of conducting. [R.]

CONDUCTRESS
Con*duct"ress, n.

Defn: A woman who leads or directs; a directress.

CONDUIT
Con"duit ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. conductus escort,
conduit. See Conduct.]

1. A pipe, canal, channel, or passage for conveying water or fluid.
All the conduits of my blood froze up. Shak.
This is the fountain of all those bitter waters, of which, through a
hundred different conduits, we have drunk. Burke.

2. (Arch.)
(a) A structure forming a reservoir for water. Oxf. Gloss.
(b) A narrow passage for private communication.

CONDUIT SYSTEM; CONDUIT RAILWAY
Con"duit sys"tem. (Elec.)

Defn: A system of electric traction, esp. for light railways, in
which the actuating current passes along a wire or rail laid in an
underground conduit, from which the current is "picked up" by a plow
or other device fixed to the car or electric locomotive.  Hence
Conduit railway.

CONDUPLICATE
Con*du"pli*cate, a. Etym: [L. conduplicatus, p. p. of conduplicare.
See Duplicate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Folded lengthwise along the midrib, the upper face being
within; -- said of leaves or petals in vernation or æstivation.

CONDUPLICATION
Con*du`pli*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. conduplicatio.]

Defn: A doubling together or folding; a duplication. [R.]

CONDURANGO
Con`du*ran"go, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Cundurango.

CONDURRITE
Con*dur"rite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of the mineral domeykite, or copper arsenide, from
the Condurra mine in Cornwall, England.

CONDYLAR
Con"dy*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a condyle. Condylar foramen (Anat.), a
formen in front of each condyle of the occipital bone; -- sometimes
called the anterior condylar foramen when a second, or posterior,
foramen is present behind the condyle, as often happens in man.

CONDYLE
Con"dyle ( or ), n. Etym: [L. condylus knuckle, joint, Gr. condyle.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A bony prominence; particularly, an eminence at the end of a
bone bearing a rounded articular surface; -- sometimes applied also
to a concave articular surface.

CONDYLOID
Con"dy*loid, a. Etym: [Condyle + -oid: cf. F. condyloïde.] (Anat.)

Defn: Shaped like or pertaining to a condyle.

CONDYLOMA; CONDYLOME
Con`dy*lo"ma, Con"dy*lome, n.; pl. Condylomata or, E. Condylomes.
Etym: [NL. condyloma, fr. Gr. -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A wartlike new growth on the outer skin or adjoining mucous
membrance.

Note: There are two kinds of condylomata, the pointed and the broad,
the latter being of syphilitic origin.

CONDYLOPOD
Con*dyl"o*pod, n. Etym: [Gr. -pod.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An arthropod.

CONE
Cone, n. Etym: [L. conus cone (in sense 1), Gr. çana whetstone, L.
cuneus wedge, and prob. to E. hone. See Hone, n.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A solid of the form described by the revolution of a right-
angled triangle about one of the sides adjacent to the right angle; -
- called also a right cone. More generally, any solid having a
vertical point and bounded by a surface which is described by a
straight line always passing through that vertical point; a solid
having a circle for its base and tapering to a point or vertex.

2. Anything shaped more or less like a mathematical cone; as, a
volcanic cone, a collection of scoriæ around the crater of a volcano,
usually heaped up in a conical form.
Now had Night measured with her shadowy cone Half way up hill this
vast sublunar vault. Milton.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit or strobile of the Coniferæ, as of the pine, fir,
cedar, and cypress. It is composed of woody scales, each one of which
has one or two seeds at its base.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A shell of the genus Conus, having a conical form. Cone of rays
(Opt.), the pencil of rays of light which proceed from a radiant
point to a given surface, as that of a lens, or conversely.
 -- Cone pulley. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Oblique or Scalene cone, a cone of which the axis is inclined to
the plane of its base.
 -- Eight cone. See Cone, 1.

CONE
Cone, v. t.

Defn: To render coneshaped; to bevel like the circular segment of a
cone; as, to cone the tires of car wheels.

CONE CLUTCH
Cone clutch. (Mach.)

Defn: A friction clutch with conical bearing surfaces.

CONEFLOWER
Cone"flow`er, n.

Defn: Any plant of the genus Rudbeckia; -- so called from the cone-
shaped disk of the flower head. Also, any plant of the related genera
Ratibida and Brauneria, the latter usually known as purple
coneflower.

CONE-IN-CONE
Cone"-in-cone", a. (Geol.)

Defn: Consisting of a series of parallel cones, each made up of many
concentric cones closely packed together; -- said of a kind of
structure sometimes observed in sedimentary rocks.

CONEINE
Co*ne"ine ( or ; 104), n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Conine.

CONE-NOSE
Cone"-nose`, n.

Defn: A large hemipterous insect of the family Reduviidæ, often found
in houses, esp. in the southern and western United States. It bites
severely, and is one of the species called kissing bugs. It is also
called big bedbug.

CONEPATE; CONEPATL
Co"ne*pate, Co"ne*patl, n. Etym: [Mexican conepatl and epatl.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The skunk.

CONE PULLEY
Cone" pul"ley.

Defn: A pulley for driving machines, etc., having two or more parts
or steps of different diameters; a pulley having a conical shape.

CONESTOGA WAGON; CONESTOGA WAIN
Con`es*to"ga wag`on, Con`es*to"ga wain. [From Conestoga,
Pennsylvania.]

Defn: A kind of large broad-wheeled wagon, usually covered, for
traveling in soft soil and on prairies.

CONEY
Co"ney ( or ), n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A rabbit. See Cony.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish. See Cony.

CONFAB
Con"fab, n. Etym: [Contr. from confabulation.]

Defn: Familiar talk or conversation. [Colloq.]

CONFABULATE
Con*fab"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Confabulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Confabulating.] Etym: [L. confabulatus, p. p. of confabulary, to
converse together; con- + fabulary to speak, fr. fabula. See Fable.]

Defn: To talk familiarly together; to chat; to prattle.
I shall not ask Jean Jaques Rousseau If birds confabulate or no.
Cowper.

CONFABULATION
Con*fab`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. confabulatio.]

Defn: Familiar talk; easy, unrestrained, unceremonious conversation.
Friends' confabulations are comfortable at all times, as fire in
winter. Burton.

CONFABULATORY
Con*fab"u*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of the nature of familiar talk; in the form of a dialogue.
Weever.

CONFALON
Con"fa*lon, n. Etym: [F. See Confalon.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: One of a fraternity of seculars, also called Penitents.

CONFARREATION
Con*far`re*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. confarreatio, fr. confarreare to
marry; con- + farreum (sc. libum cake) a spelt cake, fr. farreus made
of spelt, fr. far a sort of grain.] (Antiq.)

Defn: A form of marriage among the Romans, in which an offering of
bread was made, in presence of the high priest and at least ten
witnesses.

CONFATED
Con*fat"ed, p.a.

Defn: Fated or decreed with something else. [R.] A. Tucker.

CONFECT
Con*fect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Confected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Confecting.] Etym: [L. confectus, p. p. of conficere to prepare. See
Comfit.]

1. To prepare, as sweetmeats; to make a confection of. [Obs.]
Saffron confected in Cilicia. W. Browne.

2. To construct; to form; to mingle or mix. [Obs.]
Of this were confected the famous everlasting lamps and tapers. Sir
T. Herbert.
[My joys] are still confected with some fears. Stirling.

CONFECT
Con"fect, n.

Defn: A comfit; a confection. [Obs.]
At supper eat a pippin roasted and sweetened with sugar of roses and
caraway confects. Harvey.

CONFECTION
Con*fec"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. confectio.]

1. A composition of different materials. [Obs.]
A new confection of mold. Bacon.

2. A preparation of fruits or roots, etc., with sugar; a sweetmeat.
Certain confections . . . are like to candied conserves, and are made
of sugar and lemons. Bacon.

3. A composition of drugs. Shak.

4. (Med.)

Defn: A soft solid made by incorporating a medicinal substance or
substances with sugar, sirup, or honey.

Note: The pharmacopoeias formerly made a distinction between
conserves (made of fresh vegetable substances and sugar) and
electuaries (medicinal substances combined with sirup or honey), but
the distinction is now abandoned and all are called confections.

CONFECTIONARY
Con*fec"tion*a*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. confectionaris a pharmacist.]

Defn: A confectioner. [Obs.]
He will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and to be cooks. 1
Sam. viii. 13.

CONFECTIONARY
Con*fec"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Prepared as a confection.
The biscuit or confectionary plum. Cowper.

CONFECTIONER
Con*fec"tion*er, n.

1. A compounder. [Obs.]
Canidia Neapolitana was confectioner of unguents. Haywood.

2. One whose occupation it is to make or sell confections, candies,
etc.

CONFECTIONERS' SUGAR
Con*fec"tion*ers' sug`ar.

Defn: A highly refined sugar in impalpable powder, esp. suited to
confectioners' uses.

CONFECTIONERY
Con*fec"tion*er*y, n.

1. Sweetmeats, in general; things prepared and sold by a
confectioner; confections; candies.

2. A place where candies, sweetmeats, and similar things are made or
sold.

CONFECTORY
Con*fec"to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the art of making sweetmeats. [Obs.] Beaumont.

CONFECTURE
Con*fec"ture, n.

Defn: Same as Confiture. [Obs.]

CONFEDER
Con*fed"er, v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. conf. See Confederate.]

Defn: To confederate. [Obs.] Sir T. North.

CONFEDERACY
Con*fed"er*a*cy, n.; pl. Confederacies. Etym: [From Confederate, a.]

1. A league or compact between two or more persons, bodies of men, or
states, for mutual support or common action; alliance.
The friendships of the world are oft Confederacies in vice or leagues
of pleasure. Addison.
He hath heard of our confederacy. Shak.
Virginia promoted a confederacy. Bancroft.

2. The persons, bodies, states, or nations united by a league; a
confederation.
The Grecian common wealth, . . . the most heroic confederacy that
ever existed. Harris.
Virgil has a whole confederacy against him. Dryden.

3. (Law)

Defn: A combination of two or more persons to commit an unlawful act,
or to do a lawful act by unlawful means. See Conspiracy.

Syn.
 -- League; compact; alliance; association; union; combination;
confederation.

CONFEDERATE
Con*fed"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. confoederatus, p. p. of confoederare to
join by a league; con- + foederare to establish by treaty or league,
fr. foedus league, compact. See Federal.]

1. United in a league; allied by treaty; engaged in a confederacy;
banded together; allied.
All the swords In Italy, and her confederate arms, Could not have
made this peace. Shak.

2. (Amer. Hist.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the government of the eleven Southern
States of the United States which (1860-1865) attempted to establish
an independent nation styled the Confederate States of America; as,
the Confederate congress; Confederate money.

CONFEDERATE
Con*fed"er*ate, n.

1. One who is united with others in a league; a person or a nation
engaged in a confederacy; an ally; also, an accomplice in a bad
sense.
He found some of his confederates in gaol. Macaulay.

2. (Amer. Hist.)

Defn: A name designating an adherent to the cause of the States which
attempted to withdraw from the Union (1860-1865).

CONFEDERATE
Con*fed"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Confederated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Confederating.]

Defn: To unite in a legue or confederacy; to ally.
With these the Piercies them confederate. Daniel.

CONFEDERATE
Con*fed"er*ate, v. i.

Defn: To unite in a league; to join in a mutual contract or covenant;
to band together.
By words men . . . covenant and confederate. South.

CONFEDERATER
Con*fed"er*a`ter, n.

Defn: A confederate.

CONFEDERATION
Con*fed`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. confoederatio: cf. F. confédération.]

1. The act of confederating; a league; a compact for mutual support;
alliance, particulary of princes, nations, or states.
The three princes enter into some strict league and confederation
among themselves. Bacon.
This was no less than a political confederation of the colonies of
New England. Palfrey.

2. The parties that are confederated, considered as a unit; a
confederacy. Articles of confederation. See under Article.

CONFEDERATIVE
Con*fed"er*a*tive ( or ), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a confederation.

CONFEDERATOR
Con*fed"er*a`tor, n.

Defn: A confederate. Grafton.

CONFER
Con*fer", v.t. [imp. & p. p. Conferred; p. pr. & vb. n. Conferring.]
Etym: [L. conferre to bring together, contribute, consult; con- +
ferre to bear: cf. F. conférer. See 1st Bear.]

1. To bring together for comparison; to compare. [Obs.]
If we confer these observations with others of the like nature, we
may find cause to rectify the general opinion. Boyle.

2. To grant as a possession; to bestow.
The public marks of honor and reward Conferred upon me. Milton.

3. To contribute; to conduce. [Obs.]
The closeness and compactness of the parts resting together doth much
confer to the strength of the union. Glanvill.

CONFER
Con*fer", v. i.

Defn: To have discourse; to consult; to compare views; to deliberate.
Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered. Acts xxv.
12.
You shall hear us confer of this. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To counsel; advise; discourse; converse.

CONFEREE
Con`fer*ee", n. Etym: [Cf. Referee.]

1. One who is conferred with, or who takes part in a conference; as,
the conferees on the part of the Senate.

2. One upon whom something is conferred.

CONFERENCE
Con"fer*ence, n. Etym: [F. conférence. See Confer.]

1. The act of comparing two or more things together; comparison.
[Obs.]
Helps and furtherances which . . . the mutual conference of all men's
collections and observations may afford. Hocker.

2. The act of consulting together formally; serious conversation or
discussion; interchange of views.
Nor with such free and friendly conference As he hath used of old.
Shak.

3. A meeting for consultation, discussion, or an interchange of
opinions.

4. A meeting of the two branches of a legislature, by their
committees, to adjust between them.

5. (Methodist Church)

Defn: A stated meeting of preachers and others, invested with
authority to take cognizance of ecclesiastical matters.

6. A voluntary association of Congregational churches of a district;
the district in which such churches are. Conference meeting, a
meeting for conference. Specifically, a meeting conducted (usually)
by laymen, for conference and prayer. [U. S.] -- Conference room, a
room for conference and prayer, and for the pastor's less formal
addresses. [U. S.]

CONFERENTIAL
Con`fer*en"tial, a.

Defn: Relating to conference. [R.] Clarke.

CONFERRABLE
Con*fer"ra*ble a.

Defn: Capable of being conferred.

CONFERREE
Con`fer*ree", n.

Defn: Same as Conferee.

CONFERRER
Con*fer"rer, n.

1. One who confers; one who converses. Johnson.

2. One who bestows; a giver.

CONFERRUMINATE; CONFERRUMINATED
Con`fer*ru"mi*nate, Con`fer*ru"mi*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. conferruminare
to cement. See Ferruminate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Closely united by the coalescence, or sticking together, of
contiguous faces, as in the case of the cotyledons of the live-oak
acorn.

CONFERVA
Con*fer"va, n.; pl. Confervæ. Etym: [L., a kind of water plant. See
Comfrey.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any unbranched, slender, green plant of the fresh-water algae.
The word is frequently used in a wider sense.

CONFERVACEOUS
Con`fer*va"ceous, a.

Defn: Belonging to the confervae.

CONFERVOID
Con*fer"void, a. Etym: [Conferva + -oid.]

Defn: Like, or related to, the confervae. Loudon.

CONFERVOUS
Con*fer"vous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to confervae; consisting of, or resembling, the
confervae.
Yon exiguous pool's confervous scum. O. W. Holmes.

CONFESS
Con*fess", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Confessed; p.pr. & vb.n. Confessing.]
Etym: [F. confesser, fr. L. confessus, p.p. of confiteri to confess;
con- + fateri to confess; akin to fari to speak. See 2d Ban, Fame.]

1. To make acknowledgment or avowal in a matter pertaining to one's
self; to acknowledge, own, or admit, as a crime, a fault, a debt.
And there confess Humbly our faults, and pardon beg. Milton.
I must confess I was most pleased with a beautiful prospect that none
of them have mentioned. Addison.

2. To acknowledge faith in; to profess belief in.
Whosoever, therefore, shall confess me before men, him will I
confess, also, before my Father which is in heaven. Matt. x. 32.
For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel,
nor spirit; but the Pharisees confess both. Acts xxiii. 8.

3. To admit as true; to assent to; to acknowledge, as after a
previous doubt, denial, or concealment.
I never gave it him. Send for him hither, And let him confess a
truth. Shak.
As I confess it needs must be. Tennyson.
As an actor confessed without rival to shine. Goldsmith.

4. (Eccl.)
(a) To make known or acknowledge, as one's sins to a priest, in order
to receive absolution; -- sometimes followed by the reflexive
pronoun.
Our beautiful votary took an opportunity of confessing herself to
this celebrated father. Addison.

(b) To hear or receive such confession; -- said of a priest.
He . . . heard mass, and the prince, his son, with him, and the most
part of his company were confessed. Ld. Berners.

5. To disclose or reveal, as an effect discloses its cause; to prove;
to attest.
Tall thriving trees confessed the fruitful mold. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Admit; grant; concede; avow; own; assent; recognize; prove;
exhibit; attest.
 -- To Confess, Acknowledge, Avow. Acknowledge is opposed to conceal.
We acknowledge what we feel must or ought to be made known. (See
Acknowledge.) Avow is opposed to withhold. We avow when we make an
open and public declaration, as against obloquy or opposition; as, to
avow one's principles; to avow one's participation in some act.
Confess is opposed to deny. We confess (in the ordinary sense of the
word) what we feel to have been wrong; as, to confess one's errors or
faults. We sometimes use confess and acknowledge when there is no
admission of our being in the wrong; as, this, I confess, is my
opinion; I acknowledge I have always thought so; but in these cases
we mean simply to imply that others may perhaps think us in the
wrong, and hence we use the words by way of deference to their
opinions. It was in this way that the early Christians were led to
use the Latin confiteor and confessio fidei to denote the public
declaration of their faith in Christianity; and hence the
corresponding use in English of the verb confess and the noun
confession.

CONFESS
Con*fess", v. i.

1. To make confession; to disclose sins or faults, or the state of
the conscience.
Every tongue shall confess to God. Rom. xiv. 11.

2. To acknowledge; to admit; to concede.
But since (And I confess with right) you think me bound. Tennyson.

CONFESSANT
Con*fess"ant, n. Etym: [F. confessant.]

Defn: One who confesses to a priest. [Obs.] Bacon.

CONFESSARY
Con*fess"a*ry, n. Etym: [LL. confessarius.]

Defn: One who makes a confession. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

CONFESSEDLY
Con*fess"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: By confession; without denial. [Written also confessly.]

CONFESSER
Con*fess"er, n.

Defn: One who makes a confession.

CONFESSION
Con*fes"sion, n. Etym: [F. confession, L. confessio.]

1. Acknowledgment; avowal, especially in a matter pertaining to one's
self; the admission of a debt, obligation, or crime.
With a crafty madness keeps aloof, When we would bring him on to some
confession Of his true state. Shak.

2. Acknowledgment of belief; profession of one's faith.
With the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Rom. x. 10.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: The act of disclosing sins or faults to a priest in order to
obtain sacramental absolution.
Auricular confession . . . or the private and special confession of
sins to a priest for the purpose of obtaining his absolution. Hallam.

4. A formulary in which the articles of faith are comprised; a creed
to be assented to or signed, as a preliminary to admission to
membership of a church; a confession of faith.

5. (Law)

Defn: An admission by a party to whom an act is imputed, in relation
to such act. A judicial confession settles the issue to which it
applies; an extrajudical confession may be explained or rebutted.
Wharton. Confession and avoidance (Law), a mode of pleading in which
the party confesses the facts as stated by his adversary, but alleges
some new matter by way of avoiding the legal effect claimed for them.
Mozley & W. Confession of faith, a formulary containing the articles
of faith; a creed.
 -- General confession, the confession of sins made by a number of
persons in common, as in public prayer.
 -- Westminster Confession. See Westminster Assembly, under Assembly.

CONFESSIONAL
Con*fes"sion*al, n. Etym: [F. confessional.]

Defn: The recess, seat, or inclosed place, where a priest sits to
hear confessions; often a small structure furnished with a seat for
the priest and with a window or aperture so that the penitent who is
outside may whisper into the priest's ear without being seen by him
or heard by others.

CONFESSIONAL
Con*fes"sion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a confession of faith. Confessional equality,
equality before the law of persons confessing different creeds.

CONFESSIONALISM
Con*fes"sion*al*ism, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: An exaggerated estimate of the importance of giving full assent
to any particular formula of the Christian faith. Shaff.

CONFESSIONALIST
Con*fes"sion*al*ist, n.

Defn: A priest hearing, or sitting to hear, confession. [R.] Boucher

CONFESSIONARY
Con*fes"sion*a*ry, n. Etym: [LL. confessionarium.]

Defn: A confessional. [Obs.] Johnson.

CONFESSIONARY
Con*fes"sion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to auricular confession; as, a confessionary litany.

CONFESSIONIST
Con*fes"sion*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. confessioniste.]

Defn: One professing a certain faith. Bp. Montagu.

CONFESSOR
Con*fess"or, n. Etym: [OF. confessor, F. confesseur, fr. L. & LL.
confessor.]

1. One who confesses; one who acknowledges a fault, or the truth of a
charge, at the risk of suffering; specifically, one who confesses
himself a follower of Christ and endures persecution for his faith.
He who dies for religion is a martyr; he who suffers for it is a
confessor. Latham.
Our religion which hath been sealed with the blood of so many martyrs
and confessors. Bacon.

2. A priest who hears the confessions of others and is authorized to
grant them absolution.

CONFESSORSHIP
Con*fess"or*ship, n.

Defn: The act or state of suffering persecution for religious faith.
Our duty to contend even to confessorship. J. H. Newman.

CONFESTLY
Con*fest"ly, adv.

Defn: See Cofessedly.

CONFETTI
Con*fet"ti, n. pl.; sing. -fetto. [It. Cf. Comfit.]

Defn: Bonbons; sweetmeats; confections; also, plaster or paper
imitations of, or substitutes for, bonbons, often used by carnival
revelers, at weddings, etc.

CONFIDANT; CONFIDANTE
Con`fi*dant"; 277), n. masc., Con`fi*dante", n. fem.Etym: [F.
confident, confidente, formerly also spelt confidant, confidante. See
Confide, and cf. Confident.]

Defn: One to whom secrets, especially those relating to affairs of
love, are confided or intrusted; a confidential or bosom friend.
You love me for no other end Than to become my confidant and friend;
As such I keep no secret from your sight. Dryden.

CONFIDE
Con*fide", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Confided; p.pr. & vb.n. Confiding.]
Etym: [L. confidere; con- + fidere to trust. See Faith, and cf.
Affiance.]

Defn: To put faith (in); to repose confidence; to trust; -- usually
followed by in; as, the prince confides in his ministers.
By thy command I rise or fall, In thy protection I confide. Byron.
Judge before friendships, then confide till death. Young.

CONFIDE
Con*fide", v. t.

Defn: To intrust; to give in charge; to commit to one's keeping; --
followed by to.
Congress may . . . confide to the Circuit jurisdiction of all
offenses against the United States. Story.

CONFIDENCE
Con"fi*dence, n. Etym: [L. confidentia firm trust in, self-
confidence: cf. F. confidence.]

1. The act of confiding, trusting, or putting faith in; trust;
reliance; belief; -- formerly followed by of, now commonly by in.
Society is built upon trust, and trust upon confidence of one
another's integrity. South.
A cheerful confidence in the mercy of God. Macaulay.

2. That in which faith is put or reliance had.
The Lord shall be thy confidence. Prov. iii. 26.

3. The state of mind characterized by one's reliance on himself, or
his circumstamces; a feeling of self-sufficiency; such assurance as
leads to a feeling of security; self-reliance; -- often with self
prefixed.
Your wisdom is consumed in confidence; Do not go forth to-day. Shak.
But confidence then bore thee on secure Either to meet no danger, or
to find Matter of glorious trial. Milton.

4. Private conversation; (pl.) secrets shared; as, there were
confidences between them.
Sir, I desire some confidence with you. Shak.
Confidence game, any swindling operation in which advantage is taken
of the confidence reposed by the victim in the swindler.
 -- Confidence man, a swindler.
 -- To take into one's confidence, to admit to a knowledge of one's
feelings, purposes, or affairs.

Syn.
 -- Trust; assurance; expectation; hope.
I am confident that very much be done. Boyle.

2. Trustful; without fear or suspicion; frank; unreserved.
Be confident to speak, Northumberland; We three are but thyself.
Shak.

3. Having self-reliance; bold; undaunted.
As confident as is the falcon's flight Against a bird, do I with
Mowbray fight. Shak.

4. Having an excess of assurance; bold to a fault; dogmatical;
impudent; presumptuous.
The fool rageth and is confident. Prov. xiv. 16.

5. Giving occasion for confidence. [R.]
The cause was more confident than the event was prosperious. Jer.
Taylor.

CONFIDENT
Con"fi*dent, n.

Defn: See Confidant. South. Dryden.

CONFIDENTIAL
Con`fi*den"tial, a. Etym: [Cf. F. confidentiel.]

1. Enjoying, or treated with, confidence; trusted in; trustworthy;
as, a confidential servant or clerk.

2. Communicated in confidence; secret. "Confidential messages."
Burke. Confidential communication (Law) See Privileged communication,
under Privileged.
 -- Confidential creditors, those whose claims are of such a
character that they are entitled to be paid before other creditors.
 -- Confidential debts, debts incurred for borrowed money, and
regarded as having a claim to be paid before other debts. McElrath.

CONFIDENTIALLY
Con`fi*den"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In confidence; in reliance on secrecy.

CONFIDENTLY
Con"fi*dent*ly, adv.

Defn: With confidence; with strong assurance; positively.

CONFIDENTNESS
Con"fi*dent*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being confident.

CONFIDER
Con*fid"er, n.

Defn: One who confides.

CONFIDING
Con*fid"ing, a.

Defn: That confides; trustful; unsuspicious.
 -- Con*fid"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Con*fid"ing*ness, n.

CONFIGURATE
Con*fig"ur*ate, v. i. Etym: [L. configuratus, p.p. of configurare to
form or after; con- + figurare to form, figura form. See Figure.]

Defn: To take form or position, as the parts of a complex structure;
to agree with a pattern.
Known by the name of uniformity; Where pyramids to pyramids relate
And the whole fabric doth configurate. Jordan.

CONFIGURATION
Con*fig`u*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. configuratio.]

1. Form, as depending on the relative disposition of the parts of a
thing' shape; figure.
It is the variety of configurations [of the mouth] . . . which gives
birth and origin to the several vowels. Harris.

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: Relative position or aspect of the planets; the face of the
horoscope, according to the relative positions of the planets at any
time.
They [astrologers] undertook . . . to determine the course of a man's
character and life from the configuration of the stars at the moment
of his birth. Whewell.

CONFIGURE
Con*fig"ure, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Configured; p.pr. & vb.n.
Configuring.] Etym: [L. configurare: cf. F. configurer. See
Configurate.]

Defn: To arrange or dispose in a certain form, figure, or shape.
Bentley.

CONFINABLE
Con*fin"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being confined, restricted, or limited.
Not confinable to any limits. Bp. Hall.

CONFINE
Con*fine", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Confined; p.pr. & vb.n. Confining.]
Etym: [F. confiner to border upon, LL. confinare to set bounds to;
con- + finis boundary, end. See Final, Finish.]

Defn: To restrain within limits; to restrict; to limit; to bound; to
shut up; to inclose; to keep close.
Now let not nature's hand Keep the wild flood confined! let order
die! Shak.
He is to confine himself to the compass of numbers and the slavery of
rhyme. Dryden.
To be confined, to be in childbed.

Syn.
 -- To bound; limit; restrain; imprison; immure; inclose;
circumscribe; restrict.

CONFINE
Con"fine or

Defn: (v. i. To have a common boundary; to border; to lie contiguous;
to touch; -- followed by on or with. [Obs.]
Where your g;oomy bounds Confine with heaven. Milton.
Beywixt hezven and earth and skies there stands a place. Confuining
on all three. Dryden.

CONFINE
Con"fine, n.

1. Common boundary; border; limit; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Events that came to pass within the confines of Judea. Locke.
And now in little space The confines met of emryrean heaven, And of
this world. Milton.
On the confines of the city and the Temple. Macaulay.

2. Apartment; place of restraint; prison. [Obs.]
Confines, wards, and dungeons. Shak.
The extravagant and erring spirit hies To his confine. Shak.

CONFINELESS
Con"fine`less ( or ), a.

Defn: Without limitation or end; boundless. Shak.

CONFINEMENT
Con*fine"ment, n.

1. Restraint within limits; imprisonment; any restraint of liberty;
seclusion.
The mind hates restraint, and is apt to fancy itself under
confinement when the sight is pent up. Addison.

2. Restraint within doors by sickness, esp. that caused by
childbirth; lying-in.

CONFINER
Con*fin"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, limits or restrains.

CONFINER
Con"fi`ner ( or , n.

Defn: One who lives on confines, or near the border of a country; a
borderer; a near neighbor. [Obs.] Bacon.
Happy confiners you of other lands, That shift your soil, and oft
'scape tyrants' hands. Daniel.

CONFINITY
Con*fin"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. confinité.]

Defn: Community of limits; contiguity. [R.] Bailey.

CONFIRM
Con*firm", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Confrmed; p.pr. & vb.n. Confirming.]
Etym: [OE. confermen, confirmen, OF. confermer, F. confirmer, fr. L.
confirmare; con- + firmare to make firm, fr. firmus firm. See Firm.]

1. To make firm or firmer; to add strength to; to establish; as,
health is confirmed by exercise.
Confirm the crown to me and to mine heirs. Shak.
Annd confirmed the same unto Jacob for a law. Ps. cv. 10.

2. To strengthen in judgment or purpose.
Confirmed, then, I resolve Adam shall share with me in bliss or woe.
Milton.

3. To give new assurance of the truth of; to render certain; to
verify; to corroborate; as, to confirm a rumor.
Your eyes shall witness and confirm my tale. Pope.
These likelihoods confirm her flight. Shak.

4. To render valid by formal assent; to complete by a necessary
sanction; to ratify; as, to confirm the appoinment of an official;
the Senate confirms a treaty.
That treaty so prejudicial ought to have been remitted rather than
confimed. Swift.

5. (Eccl.)

Defn: To administer the rite of confirmation to. See Confirmation, 3.
Those which are thus confirmed are thereby supposed to be fit for
admission to the sacrament. Hammond.

Syn.
 -- To strengthen; corroborate; substantiate; establish; fix; ratify;
settle; verify; assure.

CONFIRMABLE
Con*firm"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be confirmed.

CONFIRMANCE
Con*firm"ance, n.

Defn: Confirmation. [Obs.]

CONFIRMATION
Con`fir*ma"tion, n. Etym: [F. confirmation, L. confirmatio.]

1. The act of confirming or strengthening; the act of establishing,
ratifying, or sanctioning; as, the confirmation of an appointment.
Their blood is shed In confirmation of the noblest claim. Cowper.

2. That which confirms; that which gives new strength or assurance;
as to a statement or belief; additional evidence; proof; convincing
testimony.
Trifles light as air Are to the jealous confirmations strong As
proofs of holy writ. Shak.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: A rite supplemental to baptism, by which a person is admitted,
through the laying on of the hands of a bishop, to the full
privileges of the church, as in the Roman Catholic, the Episcopal
Church, etc.
This ordinance is called confirmation, because they who duly receive
it are confirmed or strengthened for the fulfillment of their
Christian duties, by the grace therein bestowed upon them. Hook.

4. (Law)

Defn: A conveyance by which a voidable estate is made sure and not
voliable, or by which a particular estate is increased; a contract,
express or implied, by which a person makes that firm and binding
which was before voidable.

CONFIRMATIVE
Con*firm"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. confirmativus: cf. F. confirmatif.]

Defn: Tending confirm or establish. Sherwood.
 -- Con*firm"a*tive*ly, adv.

CONFIRMATOR
Con"fir*ma`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who, or that which, confirms; a confirmer. Sir T. Browne.

CONFIRMATORY
Con*firm"a*to*ry, a. .

Defn: Serving to confirm; corroborative.
A fact confirmatory of the conclusion. I. Taylor.

2. Pertaining to the rite of confirmation. Compton.

CONFIRMEDLY
Con*firm"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: With confirmation.

CONFIRMEDNESS
Con*firm"ed*ness, n.

Defn: A fixed state.

CONFIRMEE
Con`fir*mee", n. Etym: [F. confirm, p.p. of confirmer.] (Law)

Defn: One to whom anuthing is confirmed.

CONFIRMER
Con*firm"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, confirms, establishes, or ratifies; one
who corroborates. Shak.

CONFIRMINGLY
Con*firm"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a confirming manner.

CONFISCABLE
Con*fis"ca*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. confiscable.]

Defn: Capable of being confiscated; liable to forfeiture.

CONFISCATE
Con"fis*cate ( or , a. Etym: [L. confiscatus, p.p. of confiscare to
confiscate, prop., to lay up in a chest; con- + fiscus basket, purse,
treasury. See Fiscal.]

Defn: Seized and appropriated by the government to the public use;
forfeited.
Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate. Shak.

CONFISCATE
Con"fis*cate ( or , v. t. [imp & p. p. Confiscated; p.pr & vb. n.
Confiscating.]

Defn: To seize as forfeited to the public treasury; to appropriate to
the public use.
It was judged that he should be banished and his whole estate
confiscated and seized. Bacon.

CONFISCATION
Con`fis*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. confiscatio.]

Defn: The act or process of taking property or condemning it to be
taken, as forfeited to the public use.
The confiscations following a subdued rebellion. Hallam.

CONFISCATOR
Con"fis*ca`tor, n. Etym: [L., a treasurer.]

Defn: One who confiscates. Burke.

CONFISCATORY
Con*fis"ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Effecting confiscation; characterized by confiscations.
"Confiscatory and exterminatory periods." Burke.

CONFIT
Con"fit, n.

Defn: Same as Comfit. [Obs.]

CONFITENT
Con"fi*tent, n. Etym: [L. confitens, p.pr.]

Defn: One who confesses his sins and faults. [Obs.]

CONFITEOR
Con*fit"e*or, n. Etym: [L., I confess. See Confess.] (R.C.Ch.)

Defn: A form of prayer in which public confession of sins is made.

CONFITURE
Con"fi*ture ( or , n.

Defn: The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity;
adaptation; suitableness. Sir J. Reynolds.
If congeniality of tastes could have made a marriage happy, that
union should have been thrice blessed. Motley.

CONFIX
Con*fix", v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Confixed; p. pr. & vb. n. Confixing.]
[L. confixus, p. p. of configere to fasten together.]

Defn: To fix; to fasten. [Obs.]  Shak.

CONFIXURE
Con*fix"ure (; 135), n.

Defn: Act of fastening. [Obs.]

CONFLAGRANT
Con*fla"grant, a. [L. conflagrans, p. pr. of conflagrare; con- +
flagrare to blaze. See Flagrant.]

Defn: Burning together in a common flame. [R.] "The conflagrant
mass."  Milton.

CONFLAGRATION
Con`fla*gra"tion, n. [L. conflagratio: cf. F. conflagration.]

Defn: A fire extending to many objects, or over a large space; a
general burning.

Till one wide conflagration swallows all.
Pope.

CONFLATE
Con*flate", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Conflated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conflating.] [L. conflatus, p. p. of conflare to blow together; con-
+ flare to blow.]

Defn: To blow together; to bring together; to collect;  to fuse
together; to join or weld; to consolidate.

The State-General, created and conflated by the passionate effort of
the whole nation.
Carlyle.

CONFLATION
Con*fla"tion, n. [L. conflatio.]

Defn: A blowing together, as of many instruments in a concert, or of
many fires in a foundry. [R.]  Bacon.

CONFLICT
Con"flict, n. [L. conflictus a striking together, fr. confligere, -
flictum, to strike together, to fight: cf. F. conflit, formerly also
conflict. See Conflict, v.]

1. A striking or dashing together; violent collision; as, a conflict
of elements or waves.

2.  A strife for the mastery; hostile contest; battle; struggle;
fighting.

As soon as he [Atterbury] was himself again, he became eager for
action and conflict.
Macaulay.

An irrepressible conflict between opposing and enduring forces.
W. H. Seward.

Conflict of laws, that branch of jurisprudence which deals with
individual litigation claimed to be subject to the conflicting laws
of two or more states or nations; -- often used as synonymous with
Private international law.

Syn. -- Contest; collision; struggle; combat; strife; contention;
battle; fight; encounter. See Contest.

CONFLICT
Con*flict", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Conflicted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conflicting.] [L. conflictus, p. p. of confligere to conflict (cf.
conflictare); con- + fligere to strike; cf. Gr. fli`bein, qli`bein,
to press, L. flagrum whip.]

1. To strike or dash together; to meet in violent collision; to
collide. Shak.

Fire and water conflicting together.
Bacon.

2.  To maintain a conflict; to contend; to engage in strife or
opposition; to struggle.

A man would be content to . . . conflict with great difficulties, in
hopes of a mighty reward.
Abp. Tillotson.

3.  To be in opposition; to be contradictory.

The laws of the United States and of the individual States may, in
some cases, conflict with each other.
Wheaton.

Syn. -- To fight; contend; contest; resist; struggle; combat; strive;
battle.

CONFLICTING
Con*flict"ing, a.

Defn: Being in conflict or collision, or in opposition; contending;
contradictory; incompatible; contrary; opposing.

Torn with sundry conflicting passions.
Bp. Hurd.

CONFLICTIVE
Con*flict"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to conflict; conflicting.  Sir W. Hamilton.

CONFLUENCE
Con"flu*ence, n. [L. confluentia.]

1. The act of flowing together; the meeting or junction of two or
more streams; the place of meeting.

New York stood at the confluence of two rivers.
Bancroft.

2.  Any running together of separate streams or currents; the act of
meeting and crowding in a place; hence, a crowd; a concourse; an
assemblage.

You see this confluence, this great flood of vistors.
Shak.

The confluence . . . of all true joys.
Boyle.

CONFLUENT
Con"flu*ent, a. [L. confluens, -entis, p. pr. of confluere, -fluxum;
con- + fluere to flow.  See Fluent.]

1. Flowing together; meeting in their course; running one into
another.

These confluent steams make some great river's head.
Blackmore.

2.  (Bot.) Blended into one; growing together, so as to obliterate
all distinction.

3.  (Med.)
 (a) Running together or uniting, as pimples or pustules.
 (b) Characterized by having the pustules, etc., run together or
unite, so as to cover the surface; as, confluent smallpox.
Dunglison.

CONFLUENT
Con"flu*ent, n.

1. A small steam which flows into a large one.

2.  The place of meeting of steams, currents, etc. [Obs.]  Holland.

CONFLUX
Con"flux, n. [From L. confluxus, p. p. See Confluent.]

1. A flowing together; a meeting of currents. "The conflux of meeting
sap."  Shak.

The general conflux and concourse of the whole people.
Clarendon.

2.  A large assemblage; a passing multitude.

To the gates cast round thine eye, and see
What conflux issuing forth, or entering in.
Milton.

CONFLUXIBILITY
Con*flux`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The  tendency of fluids to run together. [R.] Boyle.

CONFLUXIBLE
Con*flux"i*ble, a.

Defn: Inclined to flow or run together. --Con*flux"i*ble*ness, n.

CONFOCAL
Con*fo"cal, a. (Math.)

Defn: Having the same foci; as, confocal quadrics.

CONFORM
Con*form", a. [L. conformis; con- + forma form: cf. F. conforme.]

Defn: Of the same form; similar in import; conformable.  Bacon.

Care must be taken that the interpretation be every way conform to
the analogy of faith.
Bp.Hall.

CONFORM
Con*form", v. i.

1. To be in accord or harmony; to comply; to be obedient; to submit;
-- with to or with.

A rule to which experience must conform.
Whewell.

2.  (Eng. Eccl. Hist.) To comply with the usages of the Established
Church; to be a conformist.

About two thousand ministers whose consciences did not suffer them to
conform were driven from their benefices in a day.
Macaulay.

CONFORM
Con*form", v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Conformed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conforming.] [F. conformer, L. conformare, -formatum; con- + formare
to form, forma form. See Form.]

Defn: To shape in accordance with; to make like; to bring into
harmony or agreement with; -- usually with to or unto.

Demand of them wherefore they conform not themselves unto the order
of the church.
Hooker.

CONFORMABILITY
Con*form`a*bil"i*ty, n.

1. The state of being conformable.

2.  (Geol.) The parallelism of two sets of strata which are in
contact.

CONFORMABLE
Con*form"a*ble, a.

1. Corresponding in form, character, opinions, etc.; similar; like;
consistent; proper or suitable; --usually followed by to.

The fragments of Sappho give us a taste of her way of writing
perfectly conformable with that character.
Addison.

Conformable to Scripture as well as to philosophy.
Whewell.

To make matters somewhat conformable for the old knight.
Sir W. Scott.

2. Disposed to compliance or obedience; ready to follow directions;
submissive; compliant.

I have been to you a true and humble wife,
At all times to your will conformable.
Shak.

3.  (Geol.) Parallel, or nearly so; -- said of strata in contact.

CONFORMABLENESS
Con*form"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being conformable; conformability.

CONFORMABLY
Con*form"a*bly, adv.

Defn: With conformity or in conformity; suitably; agreeably.

Conformably to the law and nature of God.
Bp. Beveridge.

CONFORMANCE
Con*form"ance, n.

Defn: Conformity. [R.]  Marston.

CONFORMATE
Con*form"ate, a. [L. conformatus, p. p.  See Conform.]

Defn: Having the same form. [R.]

CONFORMATION
Con`for*ma"tion, n. [L. conformatio: cf. F. conformation.]

1. The act of conforming; the act of producing conformity.

The conformation of our hearts and lives to the duties of true
religion and morality.
I. Watts.

2.  The state of being conformed; agreement; hence; structure, as
depending on the arrangement of parts; form; arrangement.

In Hebrew poetry, there may be observed a certain conformation of the
sentences.
Lowth.

A structure and conformation of the earth.
Woodward.

CONFORMATOR
Con"for*ma`tor, n. [L., a framer.]

Defn: An apparatus for taking the conformation of anything, as of the
head for fitting a hat, or, in craniometry, finding the largest
horizontal area of the head.

CONFORMER
Con*form"er, n.

Defn: One who conforms; one who complies with established forms or
doctrines.

CONFORMIST
Con*form"ist, n.

Defn: One who conforms or complies; esp., one who conforms to the
Church of England, or to the Established Church, as distinguished
from a dissenter or nonconformist.

A cheeful conformist to your judgment.
Jer.Taylor.

CONFORMITY
Con*form"i*ty, n.; pl. Conformities (#). [Cf. F. conformité.]

1. Correspondence in form, manner, or character; resemblance;
agreement; congruity; -- followed by to, with, or between.

By our conformity to God.
Tillotson.

The end of all religion is but to draw us to a conformity with God.
Dr. H.More.

A conformity between the mental taste and the sensitive taste.
Addison.

2.  (Eng. Eccl. Hist.) Compliance with the usages of the Established
Church.

The king [James I.] soon afterward put forth a proclamation requiring
all ecclesiastical and civil officers to do their duty by enforcing
conformity.
Hallam.

CONFORTATION
Con`for*ta"tion, n. [Cf. F. confortation, LL. confortatio. Cf.
Comfort.]

Defn: The act of strengthening. [Obs.]  Bacon.

CONFOUND
Con*found" (kon*found"), v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Confounded; p. pr. &
vb. n. Confounding.] [F. confondre, fr. L. confundere, -fusum, to
pour together; con- + fundere to pour. See Fuse to melt, and cf.
Confuse.]

1. To mingle and blend, so that different elements can not be
distinguished; to confuse.

They who strip not ideas from the marks men use for them, but
confound them with words, must have endless dispute.
Locke.

Let us go down, and there confound their language.
Gen. xi. 7.

2.  To mistake for another; to identify falsely.

They [the tinkers] were generally vagrants and pilferers, and were
often confounded with the gypsies.
Macaulay.

3.  To throw into confusion or disorder; to perplex; to strike with
amazement; to dismay.

The gods confound...
The Athenians both within and out that wall.
Shak.

They trusted in thee and were not confounded.
Ps. xxii. 5.

So spake the Son of God, and Satan stood
A while as mute, confounded what to say.
Milton.

4.  To destroy; to ruin; to waste. [Obs.]

One man's lust these many lives confounds.
Shak.

How couldst thou in a mile confound an hour
Shak.

Syn. -- To abash; confuse; baffle; dismay; astonish; defeat; terrify;
mix; blend; intermingle. See Abash.

CONFOUNDED
Con*found"ed, a.

1. Confused; perplexed.

A cloudy and confounded philosopher.
Cudworth.

2.  Excessive; extreme; abominable. [Colloq.]

He was a most confounded tory.
Swift.

The tongue of that confounded woman.
Sir. W. Scott.

CONFOUNDEDLY
Con*found"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Extremely; odiously; detestably. [Colloq.] "Confoundedly sick."
Goldsmith.

CONFOUNDEDNESS
Con*found"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being confounded.

Their witty descant of my confoundedness.
Milton.

CONFOUNDER
Con*found"er, n.

Defn: One who confounds.

CONFRACT
Con"fract`, a. [L. confractus, p. p. of confringere.]

Defn: Broken in pieces; severed. [Obs.]

CONFRAGOSE
Con`fra*gose", a. [L. confragosus; con- + fragosus, fr. frangere. See
Fragile.]

Defn: Broken; uneven. [Obs.] "Confragose cataracts."  Evelyn.

CONFRATERNITY
Con`fra*ter"ni*ty, n.; pl. Confraternities (#). [LL. confraternitas:
cf. F. confraternité. See Fraternity.]

Defn: A society or body of men united for some purpose, or in some
profession; a brotherhood.

These live in one society and confraternity.
Stow.

CONFRERE
Con`frere", n. [F.]

Defn: Fellow member of a fraternity; intimate associate.

CONFRICATION
Con`fri*ca"tion, n. [L. confricatio, fr. confricare to rub
vigorously.]

Defn: A rubbing together; friction. [Obs.] Bacon.

CONFRIER
Con*fri"er, n. [Cf. F. confrère. See Friar.]

Defn: A confrère. [Obs.]  Weever.

CONFRONT
Con*front", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Confronted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Confronting.] [F. confronter; L. con- + frons the forehead or front.
See Front.]

1. To stand facing or in front of; to face; esp. to face hostilely;
to oppose with firmness.

We four, indeed, confronted were with four
In Russian habit.
Shak.

He spoke and then confronts the bull.
Dryden.

Hester caught hold of Pearl, and drew her forcibly into her arms,
confronting the old Puritan magistrate with almost a fierce
expression.
Hawthorne.

It was impossible at once to confront the might of France and to
trample on the liberties of England.
Macaulay.

2.  To put face to face; to cause to face or to meet; as, to confront
one with the proofs of his wrong doing.

3.  To set in opposition for examination; to put in contrast; to
compare.

When I confront a medal with a verse, I only show you the same design
executed by different hands.
Addison.

CONFRONTATION
Con`fron*ta"tion, n. [LL. confrontatio.]

Defn: Act of confronting.  H. Swinburne.

CONFRONTE
Con`fron`té", a. [F., p. p. confronter.] (Her.)

Defn: Same as Affronté.

CONFRONTER
Con*front"er, n.

Defn: One who confronts.

A confronter in authority.
Speed.

CONFRONTING
confronting n.

Defn: dealing with (a person or problem) directly; taking the bull by
the horns.
Syn. -- braving, coping with, grappling, tackling.
[WordNet 1.5 +PJC]

CONFRONTMENT
Con*front"ment, n.

Defn: The act of confronting; the state of being face to face.

CONFRONTMENT
Con*front"ment, n.

Defn: The act of confronting; the state of being face to face.

CONFUCIAN
Con*fu"cian, a.

Defn: Of, or relating to, Confucius, the great Chinese philosopher
and teacher. -- n.

Defn: A Confucianist.

CONFUCIANISM
Con*fu"cian*ism, n.

Defn: The political morality taught by Confucius and his disciples,
which forms the basis of the Chinese jurisprudence and education. It
can hardly be called a religion, as it does not inculcate the worship
of any god.  S. W. Williams.

CONFUCIANIST
Con*fu"cian*ist, n.

Defn: A follower of Confucius; a Confucian.  S. W. Williams.

CONFUS
Con*fus, a. [F. See Confuse, a.]

Defn: Confused, disturbed. [Obs.]  Chaucer.

CONFUSABILITY
Con*fus`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capability of being confused.

CONFUSABLE
Con*fus"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being confused.

CONFUSE
Con*fuse", a. [F. confus, L. confusus, p. p. of confundere. See
Confound.]

Defn: Mixed; confounded. [Obs.] Baret.

CONFUSE
Con*fuse", v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Confused; p. pr. & vb. n. Confusing.]

1. To mix or blend so that things can not be distinguished; to jumble
together; to confound; to render indistinct or obscure; as, to
confuse accounts; to confuse one's vision.

A universal hubbub wild
Of stunning sounds and voices all confused.
Milton.

2.  To perplex; to disconcert; to abash; to cause to lose self-
possession.

Nor thou with shadowed hint confuse
A life that leads melodious days.
Tennyson.

Confused and sadly she at length replied.
Pope.

Syn. -- To abash; disorder; disarrange; disconcert; confound;
obscure; distract. See Abash.

CONFUSEDLY
Con*fus"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a confused manner.

CONFUSEDNESS
Con*fus"ed*ness, n.

Defn: A state of confusion.  Norris.

CONFUSELY
Con*fuse"ly, adv.

Defn: Confusedly; obscurely. [Obs.]

CONFUSION
Con*fu"sion, n. [F. confusion, L. confusio.]

1. The state of being mixed or blended so as to produce
indistinctness or error; indistinct combination; disorder; tumult.

The confusion of thought to which the Aristotelians were liable.
Whewell.

Moody beggars starving for a time
Of pellmell havoc and confusion.
Shak.

2.  The state of being abashed or disconcerted; loss self-possession;
perturbation; shame.

Confusion dwelt in every face
And fear in every heart.
Spectator.

3.  Overthrow; defeat; ruin.

Ruin seize thee, ruthless king,
Confusion on thy banners wait.
Gray.

4.  One who confuses; a confounder. [Obs.]  Chapmen.

Confusion of goods (Law), the intermixture of the goods of two or
more persons, so that their respective portions can no longer be
distinguished. Blackstone.  Bouvier.

CONFUSIVE
Con*fu"sive, a.

Defn: Confusing; having a tendency to confusion.  Bp. Hall.

CONFUTABLE
Con*fut"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be confuted.

A conceit . . . confutable by daily experience.
Sir T.Browne.

CONFUTANT
Con*fut"ant, n. [L. confutans, p. pr. of confutare.]

Defn: One who undertakes to confute.  Milton.

CONFUTATION
Con`fu*ta"tion, n. [L. confutatio: cf. F. confutation.]

Defn: The act or process of confuting; refutation.  "For the
edification of some and the confutation of others."  Bp. Horne.

CONFUTATIVE
Con*fut"a*tive, a.

Defn: Adapted or designed to confute.  Bp. Warburton

CONFUTE
Con*fute, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Confuted; p. pr. & vb. n. Confuting.]
[L. confutare to chek (a boiling liquid), to repress, confute; con- +
a root seen in futis a water vessel), prob. akin to fundere to pour:
cf. F. confuter. See Fuse to melt.]

Defn: To overwhelm by argument; to refute conclusively; to prove or
show to be false or defective; to overcome; to silence.

Satan stood . . . confuted and convinced
Of his weak arguing fallacious drift.
Milton.

No man's error can be confuted who doth not . . . grant some true
principle that contradicts his error.
Chillingworth.

I confute a good profession with a bad conversation.
Fuller.

Syn. -- To disprove; overthrow; sed aside; refute; oppugn. -- To
Confute, Refute. Refute is literally to and decisive evidence; as, to
refute a calumny, charge, etc. Confute is literally to check boiling,
as when cold water is poured into hot, thus serving to allay, bring
down, or neutralize completely. Hence, as applied to arguments (and
the word is never applied, like refute, to charges), it denotes, to
overwhelm by evidence which puts an end to the case and leaves an
opponent nothing to say; to silence; as, "the atheist is confuted by
the whole structure of things around him."

CONFUTEMENT
Con*fute"ment, n.

Defn: Confutation. [Obs.]  Milton.

CONFUTER
Con*fut"er, n.

Defn: One who confutes or disproves.

CONG
Cong, n. (Med.)

Defn: An abbreviation of Congius.

CONGE
Con"ge, v. i. [Imp. & p. p. Congeed; p. pr. & vb. n. Congeing.] [OF.
congier, congeer, F. congédier, fr. congé. See Congé, n.]

Defn: To take leave with the customary civilities; to bow or
courtesy.

I have congeed with the duke, done my adieu with his  nearest.
Shak.

CONGE
Con`gé" (kôN`zhay"; E. kon"je; 277), n. [F., leave, permission, fr.
L. commeatus a going back and forth, a leave of absence, furlough,
fr. commeare, -meatum, to go and come; com- + meare to go. Cf.
Permeate.] [Formerly written congie.]

1. The act of taking leave; parting ceremony; farewell; also,
dismissal.

Should she pay off old Briggs and give her her congé
Thackeray.

2.  The customary act of civility on any occasion; a bow or a
courtesy.

The captain salutes you with congé profound.
Swift.

3.  (Arch.) An apophyge. Gwilt.

Congé d'élire [F., leave to choose] (Eccl.), the sovereign's license
or permission to a dean and chapter to choose as bishop the person
nominated in the missive.

CONGEABLE
Con"ge*a*ble, a. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: Permissible; done lawfully; as, entry congeable.

CONGEAL
Con*geal", v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Congealed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Congealing.] [F. congeler, L. congelare, -gelatumn; con- + gelare to
freeze, gelu frost. See Gelid.]

1. To change from a fluid to a solid state by cold; to freeze.

A vapory deluge lies to snow congealed.
Thomson.

2.  To affect as if by freezing; to check the flow of, or cause to
run cold; to chill.

As if with horror to congeal his blood.
Stirling.

CONGEAL
Con*geal", v. i.

Defn: To grow hard, stiff, or thick, from cold or other causes; to
become solid; to freeze; to cease to flow; to run cold; to be
chilled.

Lest zeal, now melted . . .
Cool and congeal again to what it was.
Shak.

CONGEALABLE
Con*geal"a*ble, a. [Cf. F. congelable.]

Defn: Capable of being congealed. --Con*geal"a*ble*ness, n.

CONGEALEDNESS
Con*geal"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being congealed.  Dr. H.More.

CONGEALMENT
Con*geal"ment, n.

1. The act or the process of congealing; congeliation.

2.  That which is formed by congelation; a clot. [Obs.]

Wash the congealment from your wounds.
Shak.

CONGEE
Con"gee, n. & v.

Defn: See Congé, Conge. [Obs.]

And unto her his congee came to take.
Spenser.

CONGEE
Con*gee", n.

1. [Tamil kashi boilings.]

Defn: Boiled rice; rice gruel. [India]

2.  A jail; a lockup. [India]

Congee discharges, rice water discharges. Dunglison. -- Congee water,
water in which rice has been boiled.

CONGELATION
Con`ge*la"tion, n. [F. congélation, L. congelatio.]

1. The act or process of passing, or causing to pass, from a fluid to
a solid state, as by the abstraction of heat; the act or process of
freezing.

The capillary tubes are obstructed either by outward compression or
congelation of the fluid.
Arbuthnot.

2.  The state of being congealed.

3.  That which is congealed.

Sugar plums . . . with a multitude of congelations in jellies of
various colors.
Taller.

CONGENER
Con"ge*ner (; 277), n.  [From L. congener. See Congenerous.]

Defn: A thing of the same genus, species, or kind; a thing allied in
nature, character, or action.

The cherry tree has been often grafted on the laurel, to which it is
a congener.
P. Miller.

Our elk is more polygamous in his habits than any other deer except
his congener, the red deer of Europe.
Caton.

CONGENERACY
Con*gen"er*a*cy, n.

Defn: Similarity of origin; affinity. [Obs.]  Dr. H. More.

CONGENERIC; CONGENERICAL
Con`ge*ner"ic, Con`ge*ner"ic*al, a.

Defn: Belonging to the same genus; allied in origin, nature, or
action.  R. Owen.

CONGENEROUS
Con*gen"er*ous, a. [L. congener; con- + genus, generis, birth, kind,
race. See Genus, and cf. Congener.]

Defn: Allied in origin or cause; congeneric; as, congenerous
diseases. [Obs.]  Sir T. Browne.

-- Con*gen"er*ous*ness, n. [Obs.] Hallywell.

CONGENIAL
Con*gen"ial (; 106), a. [Pref. con- + genial.]

1. Partaking of the same nature; allied by natural characteristics;
kindred; sympathetic.

Congenial souls! whose life one avarice joins.
Pope.

2.  Naturally adapted; suited to the disposition. "Congenial clime."
C. J. Fox.

To defame the excellence with which it has no sympathy . . . is its
congenial work.
I. Taylor.

CONGENIALITY
Con*ge`ni*al"i*ty ( or ; 106), n.

Defn: The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity;
adaptation; suitableness.  Sir J. Reynolds.

If congeniality of tastes could have made a marriage happy, that
union should have been thrice blessed.
Motley.

CONGENIALIZE
Con*gen"ial*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make congenial. [R.]

CONGENIALLY
Con*gen"ial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a congenial manner; as, congenially married or employed.

CONGENIALNESS
Con*gen"ial*ness, n.

Defn: Congeniality.

CONGENIOUS
Con*gen"ious, a.

Defn: Congeneric. [Obs.]

CONGENITAL
Con*gen"i*tal, a. Etym: [From Congenite.]

Defn: Existing at, or dating from, birth; pertaining to one from
birth; born with one; connate; constitutinal; natural; as, a
congenital deformity. See Connate.

CONGENITALLY
Con*gen"i*tal*ly, dv.

Defn: In a congenital manner.

CONGENITE
Con*gen"ite, a. Etym: [L. congenitus; con- + genitus, p.p. of gignere
to beget. See Generate.]

Defn: Congenital; connate; inborn. See Congenital. [Obs.]
Many conclusions, of moral and intellectual truths, seem . . . to be
congenite with us. Sir M. Hale.

CONGER
Con"ger, n. Etym: [L. conger, congrus, akin to Gr. congre.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The conger eel; -- called also congeree. Conger sea (Zoöl.),
the sea eel; a large species of eel (Conger vulgaris), which
sometimes grows to the length of ten feet.

CONGERIES
Con*ge"ri*es, n. sing & pl. Etym: [L., fr. congerere. See Congest.]

Defn: A collection of particles or bodies into one mass; a heap; an
aggregation.

CONGEST
Con*gest", v. t. Etym: [L. congestus, p. p. of congere to bring
together; con- + gerere. See Gerund.]

1. To collect or gather into a mass or aggregate; to bring together;
to accumulate.
To what will thy congested guilt amount Blackmore.

2. (Med.)

Defn: To cause an overfullness of the blood vessels (esp. the
capillaries) of an organ or part.

CONGESTED
Con*gest"ed, a.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Crowded together. Gray.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Containing an unnatural accumulation of blood; hyperæmic; --
said of any part of the body.

CONGESTION
Con*ges"tion, n. Etym: [L. congestio: cf. F. congestion.]

1. The act of gathering into a heap or mass; accumulation. [Obs.]
The congestion of dead bodies one upon another. Evelyn.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Overfullness of the capillary and other blood vessels, etc., in
any locality or organ (often producing other morbid symptoms); local
hyperas, arterial congestion; venous congestion; congestion of the
lungs.

CONGESTIVE
Con*gest"ive, a. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to, indicating, or attended with, congestion in some
part of the body; as, a congestive fever.

CONGIARY
Con"gi*a*ry, n.; pl. Congiaries. Etym: [L. congiarium, fr. congius a
liquid measure.]

Defn: A present, as of corn, wine, or oil, made by a Roman emperor to
the soldiers or the people; -- so called because measured to each in
a congius. Addison.

Note: In later years, when gifts of money were distributed, the name
congius was retained.

CONGIUS
Con"gi*us, n. Etym: [L.]

1. (Roman Antiq.)

Defn: A liquid measure containing about three quarts.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A gallon, or four quarts. [Often abbreviated to cong.]

CONGLACIATE
Con*gla"ci*ate (; 221), v. t. & i. Etym: [L. conglaciatus, p.p. of
conglaciare. See Glaciate.]

Defn: To turn to ice; to freeze. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CONGLACIATION
Con*gla`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. conglaciation.]

Defn: The act or process of changing into ice, or the state of being
converted to ice; a freezing; congelation; also, a frost. Bacon.

CONGLOBATE
Con*glo"bate, a. Etym: [L. conglobatus, p.p. of conglobare to
conglobate. See Globate.]

Defn: Collected into, or forming, a rounded mass or ball; as, the
conglobate [lymphatic] glands; conglobate flowers.

CONGLOBATE
Con*glo"bate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conglobated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Conglobating.] Etym: [Cf. Conglore.]

Defn: To collect or form into a ball or rounded mass; to gather or
mass together.
Conglobated bubbles undissolved. Wordsworth.

CONGLOBATION
Con`glo*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. conglobatio: cf. F. conglobation.]

1. The act or process of forming into a ball. Sir T. Browne.

2. A round body.

CONGLOBE
Con*globe", v. t. [imp & p. p. Conglobed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conglobing.] Etym: [L. conglobare: cf. F. conglober. Cf. Conglobate.]

Defn: To gather into a ball; to collect into a round mass.
Then founded, then conglobed Like things to like. Milton.

CONGLOBE
Con*globe", v. i.

Defn: To collect, unite, or coalesce in a round mass. Milton.

CONGLOBULATE
Con*glob"u*late, v. i. Etym: [Pref. con- + globule.]

Defn: To gather into a small round mass.

CONGLOMERATE
Con*glom"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. conglomeratus, p.p. of conglomerare to
roll together; con- + glomerare to wind into a ball. See Glomerate.]

1. Gathered into a ball or a mass; collected together; concentrated;
as, conglomerate rays of light.
Beams of light when they are multiplied and conglomerate. Bacon.
Fluids are separated in the liver and the other conglobate and
conglomerate glands. Cheyne.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Closely crowded together; densly clustered; as, conglomerate
flowers. Gray.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: Composed of stones, pebbles, or fragments of rocks, cemented
together.

CONGLOMERATE
Con*glom"er*ate, n.

1. That which is heaped together in a mass or conpacted from various
sources; a mass formed of fragments; collection; accumulation.
A conglomerate of marvelous anecdotes, marvelously heaped together.
Trench.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: A rock, composed or rounded fragments of stone cemented
together by another mineral substance, either calcareous, siliceous,
or argillaceous; pudding stone; -- opposed to agglomerate. See
Breccia.
A conglomerate, therefore, is simply gravel bound together by a
cement. Lyell.

CONGLOMERATE
Con*glom"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conglomerated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Conglomerating.]

Defn: To gather into a ball or round body; to collect into a mass.

CONGLOMERATION
Con*glom`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. conglomeratio: cf. F.
conglomeration.]

Defn: The act or process of gathering into a mass; the state of being
thus collected; collection; accumulation; that which is
conglomerated; a mixed mass. Bacon.

CONGLUTIN
Con*glu"tin, n. Etym: [From Conglutinate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A variety of vegetable casein, resembling legumin, and found in
almonds, rye, wheat, etc.

CONGLUTINANT
Con*glu"ti*nant, a. Etym: [L., conglutinans, p.pr.]

Defn: Cementing together; uniting closely; causing to adhere;
promoting healing, as of a wound or a broken bone, by adhesion of the
parts.

CONGLUTINATE
Con*glu"ti*nate, a. Etym: [L. conglutinatus, p.p. of conglutinare to
glue; con- + glutinare to glue, gluten glue.]

Defn: Glued together; united, as by some adhesive substance.

CONGLUTINATE
Con*glu"ti*nate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conglutinated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Conglutinating.]

Defn: To glue together; to unite by some glutinous or tenacious
substance; to cause to adhere or to grow together.
Bones . . . have had their broken parts conglutinated within three or
four days. Boyle.

CONGLUTINATE
Con*glu"ti*nate, v. i.

Defn: To unite by the intervention of some glutinous substance; to
coalesce.

CONGLUTINATION
Con*glu`ti*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. conglutinatio: cf. F.
conglutination.]

Defn: A gluing together; a joining by means of some tenacious
substance; junction; union.
Conglutination of parts separated by a wound. Arbuthnot.

CONGLUTINATIVE
Con*glu"ti*na"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. conglutinatif.]

Defn: Conglutinant.

CONGO; CONGOU
Con"go, Con"gou, n. Etym: [Chin. kung-foo labor.]

Defn: Black tea, of higher grade (finer leaf and less dusty) than the
present bohea. See Tea.
Of black teas, the great mass is called Congou, or the "well worked",
a name which took the place of the Bohea of 150 years ago, and is now
itself giving way to the term "English breakfast tea." S. W.
Williams.

CONGO GROUP
Con"go group. [From Congo red.]

Defn: A group of artificial dyes with an affinity for vegetable
fibers, so that no mordant is required. Most of them are azo
compounds derived from benzidine or tolidine. Called also benzidine
dyes.

CONGO RED
Congo red. (Chem.)

Defn: An artificial red dye from which the Congo group received its
name. It is also widely used either in aqueous solution or as test
paper (Congo paper) for the detection of free acid, which turns it
blue.

CONGO SNAKE
Con"go snake". (Zoöl.)

Defn: An amphibian (Amphiuma means) of the order Urodela, found in
the southern United States. See Amphiuma.

CONGRATULANT
Con*grat"u*lant, a. Etym: [L. congratulans, p. pr.]

Defn: Rejoicing together; congratulatory.
With like joy Congratulant approached him. Milton.

CONGRATULATE
Con*grat"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Congratulated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Congratulating.] Etym: [L. congratulatus, p.p. of congratulari to
wish joy abundantly; con- + gratulari to wish joy, from gratus
pleasing. See Grateful.]

Defn: To address with expressions of sympathetic pleasure on account
of some happy event affecting the person addressed; to wish joy to.
It is the king's most sweet pleasure and affection to congratulate
the princess at her pavilion. Shak.
To congratulate one's self, to rejoice; to feel satisfaction; to
consider one's self happy or fortunate.

Syn.
 -- To Congratulate, Felicitate. To felicitate is simply to wish a
person joy. To congratulate has the additional signification of
uniting in the joy of him whom we congratulate. Hence they are by no
means synonymous. One who has lost the object of his affections by
her marriage to a rival, might perhaps felicitate that rival on his
success, but could never be expected to congratulate him on such an
event.
Felicitations are little better than compliments; congratulations are
the expression of a genuine sympathy and joy. Trench.

CONGRATULATE
Con*grat"u*late, v. i.

Defn: To express of feel sympathetic joy; as, to congratulate with
one's country. [R.] Swift.
The subjects of England may congratulate to themselves. Dryden.

CONGRATULATION
Con*grat`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. congratulatio: cf. F.
congratulation.]

Defn: The act of congratulating; an expression of sympathetic
pleasure.
With infinite congratulations for our safe arrival. Dr. J. Scott.

CONGRATULATOR
Con*grat"u*la`tor, n.

Defn: One who offers congratulation. Milton.

CONGRATULATORY
Con*grat"u*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Expressive of sympathetic joy; as, a congratulatory letter.

CONGREE
Con*gree", v. i. Etym: [Pref.on-+ L. gratus pleasing. Cf. Agree.]

Defn: To agree. [bs.] Shak.

CONGREET
Con*greet", v. t.

Defn: To salute mutually. [Obs.]

CONGREGATE
Con"gre*gate, a. Etym: [L. congregatus, p.p. of congregare to
congregate; on- + gregare to collect into a flock, fr. grex flock,
herd. See Gregarious.]

Defn: Collected; compact; close. [R.] Bacon.

CONGREGATE
Con"gre*gate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Congregated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Congregating]

Defn: To collect into an assembly or assemblage; to assemble; to
bring into one place, or into a united body; to gather together; to
mass; to compact.
Any multitude of Christian men congregated may be termed by the name
of a church. Hooker.
Cold congregates all bodies. Coleridge.
The great receptacle Of congregated waters he called Seas. Milton.

CONGREGATE
Con"gre*gate, v. i.

Defn: To come together; to assemble; to meet.
Even there where merchants most do congregate. Shak.

CONGREGATION
Con`gre*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. congregatio: cf. F. congrégation.]

1. The act of congregating, or bringing together, or of collecting
into one aggregate or mass.
The means of reduction in the fire is but by the congregation of
homogeneal parts. Bacon.

2. A collection or mass of separate things.
A foul and pestilent congregation of vapors. Shak.

3. An assembly of persons; a gathering; esp. an assembly of persons
met for the worship of God, and for religious instruction; a body of
people who habitually so meet.
He [Bunyan] rode every year to London, and preached there to large
and attentive congregations. Macaulay.

4. (Anc. Jewish Hist.)

Defn: The whole body of the Jewish people; -- called also
Congregation of the Lord.
It is a sin offering for the congregation. Lev. iv. 21.

5. (R. C. Ch.)
(a) A body of cardinals or other ecclesiastics to whom as intrusted
some departament of the church business; as, the Congregation of the
Propaganda, which has charge of the missions of the Roman Catholic
Church.
(b) A company of religious persons forming a subdivision of a
monastic order.

6. The assemblage of Masters and Doctors at Oxford or Cambrige
University, mainly for the granting of degrees. [Eng.]

7. (Scotch Church Hist.)

Defn: the name assumed by the Protestant party under John Knox. The
leaders called themselves (1557) Lords of the Congregation.

CONGREGATIONAL
Con`gre*ga"tion*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a congregation; conducted, or participated in,
by a congregation; as, congregational singing.

2. Belonging to the system of Congregationalism, or to
Congregationalist; holding to the faith and polity of
Congregationalism; as, a Congregational church.

CONGREGATIONALISM
Con`gre*ga"tion*al*ism, n.

1. That system of church organization which vests all ecclesiastical
power in the assembled brotherhood of each local church.

2. The faith and polity of the Congregational churches, taken
collectively.

Note: In this sense (which is its usual signification)
Congregationalism is the system of faith and practice common to a
large body of evangelical Trinitarian churches, which recognize the
local brotherhood of each church as independent of all dictation in
ecclesiastical matters, but are united in fellowship and joint
action, as in councils for mutual advice, and in consociations,
conferences, missionary organizations, etc., and to whose membership
the designation "Congregationalists" is generally restricted; but
Unitarian and other churches are Congregational in their polity.

CONGREGATIONALIST
Con`gre*ga"tion*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who belongs to a Congregational church or society; one who
holds to Congregationalism.

CONGRESS
Con"gress, n.; pl. Congresses. Etym: [L. congressus, fr. congredi,
p.p. -gressus, to go or come together; con- + grati to go or step,
gradus step: cf. F. congr. See Grade.]

1. A meeting of individuals, whether friendly or hostile; an
encounter. [Obs.]
Here Pallas urges on, and Lausus there;congress in the field great
Jove withstands. Dryden.

2. A sudden encounter; a collision; a shock; -- said of things.
[Obs.]
From these laws may be deduced the rules of the congresses and
reflections of two bodies. Cheyne.

3. The coming together of a male and female in sexual commerce; the
act of coition. Pennant.

4. A gathering or assembly; a conference.

5. A formal assembly, as of princes, deputies, representatives,
envoys, or commissioners; esp., a meeting of the representatives of
several governments or societies to consider and determine matters of
common interest.
The European powers strove to . . . accommodate their differences at
the congress of Vienna. Alison.

6. The collective body of senators and representatives of the people
of a nation, esp. of a republic, constituting the chief legislative
body of the nation.

Note: In the Congress of the United States (which took the place of
the Federal Congress, March 4, 1789), the Senate consists of two
Senators from each State, chosen by the State legislature for a term
of six years, in such a way that the terms of one third of the whole
number expire every year; the House of Representatives consists of
members elected by the people of the several Congressional districts,
for a term of two years, the term of all ending at the same time. The
united body of Senators and Representatives for any term of two years
for which the whole body of Representatives is chosen is called one
Congress. Thus the session which began in December, 1887, was the
first (or long) session, and that which began in December, 1888, was
the second (or short) session, of the Fiftieth Congress. When an
extra session is had before the date of the first regular meeting of
a Congress, that is called the first session, and the following
regular session is called the second session.

7. The lower house of the Spanish Cortes, the members of which are
elected for three years. The Continental Congress, an assembly of
deputies from the thirteen British colonies in America, appointed to
deliberate in respect to their common interests. They first met in
1774, and from time thereafter until near the close of the
Revolution.
 -- The Federal Congress, the assembly of representatives of the
original States of the American Union, who met under the Articles of
Confederation from 1781 till 1789.
 -- Congress boot or gaiter, a high shoe or half-boot, coming above
the ankle, and having the sides made in part of some elastic material
which stretches to allow the boot to be drawn on and off. [U.S.] --
Congress water, a saline mineral water from the Congress spring at
Saratoga, in the State of New York.

Syn.
 -- Assembly; meeting; convention; convocation; council; diet;
conclave; parliament; legislature.

CONGRESSION
Con*gres"sion ( or , n. Etym: [L. congressio.]

Defn: A coming or bringing together, as in a public meeting, in a
dispute, in the act of comparing, or in sexual intercourse. [R.] Jer.
Taylor.

CONGRESSIONAL
Con*gres"sion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a congress, especially, to the Congress of
the United States; as, congressional debates.
Congressional and official labor. E. Everett.
Congressional District, one of the divisions into which a State is
periodically divided (according to population), each of which is
entitled to elect a Representative to the Congress of the United
States.

CONGRESSIVE
Con*gres"sive, a.

Defn: Encountering, or coming together. Sir T. Browne.

CONGRESSMAN
Con"gress*man, n.; pl. Congressmen (.

Defn: A member of the Congress of the United States, esp. of the
House of Representatives.

CONGREVE ROCKET
Con"greve rock"et.

Defn: See under Rocket.

CONGRUE
Con"grue", v. i. Etym: [L. congruere. See Congruous.]

Defn: To agree; to be suitable. [Obs.] Shak.

CONGRUENCE
Con"gru*ence, n. Etym: [L. congruentia: cf. OF. cornguence.]

Defn: Suitableness of one thing to another; agreement; consistency.
Holland.

CONGRUENCY
Con"gru*en*cy ( or ), n.

Defn: Congruence. Congruency of lines. (Geom.) See Complex of lines,
under Complex, n.

CONGRUENT
Con"gru*ent, a. Etym: [L. congruens, p.pr. of congruere: cf. F.
congruent.]

Defn: Possessing congruity; suitable; agreeing; corresponding.
The congruent and harmonious fitting of parts in a sentence. B.
Jonson.
Congruent figures (Geom.), concurring figures.

CONGRUISM
Con"gru*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. congruisme.] (Scholastic Theol.)

Defn: See Congruity.

CONGRUITY
Con*gru"i*ty ( or , n.; pl. Congruities. Etym: [Cf. F. congruit.]

1. The state or quality of being congruous; the relation or agreement
between things; fitness; harmony; correspondence; consistency.
With what congruity doth the church of Rome deny that her enemies do
at all appertain to the church of Christ Hooker.
A whole sentence may fail of its congruity by wanting one particle.
Sir P. Sidney.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: Coincidence, as that of lines or figures laid over one another.

3. (Scholastic Theol.)

Defn: That, in an imperfectly good persons, which renders it suitable
for God to bestow on him gifts of grace.

CONGRUOUS
Con"gru*ous, a. Etym: [L. congruus, fr. congruere to come together,
to coincide, to agree. Of uncertain origin.]

Defn: Suitable or concordant; accordant; fit; harmonious;
correspondent; consistent.
Not congruous to the nature of epic poetry. Blair.
It is no ways congruous that God should be always frightening men
into an acknowledgment of the truth. Atterbury.

CONGRUOUSLY
Con"gru*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a congruous manner.

CONHYDRINE
Con*hy"drine ( or , n. Etym: [Conium + hydrate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A vegetable alkaloid found with conine in the poison hemlock
(Conium maculatum). It is a white crystalline substance, C8H17NO,
easily convertible into conine.

CONIA
Co*ni"a ( or , n. Etym: [NL. See Conium.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Conine.

CONIC; CONICAL
Con"ic, Con"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. conique. See Cone.]

1. Having the form of, or resembling, a geometrical cone; round and
tapering to a point, or gradually lessening in circumference; as, a
conic or conical figure; a conical vessel.

2. Of or pertaining to a cone; as, conic sections. Conic section
(Geom.), a curved line formed by the intersection of the surface of a
right cone and a plane. The conic sections are the parabola, ellipse,
and hyperbola. The right lines and the circle which result from
certain positions of the plane are sometimes, though not generally
included.
 -- Conic sections, that branch of geometry which treats of the
parabola, ellipse, and hyperbola.
 -- Conical pendulum. See Pendulum.
 -- Conical projection, a method of delineating the surface of a
sphere upon a plane surface as if projected upon the surface of a
cone; -- much used by makers of maps in Europe.
 -- Conical surface (Geom.), a surface described by a right line
moving along any curve and always passing through a fixed point that
is not in the plane of that curve.

CONIC
Con"ic, n. (Math.)

Defn: A conic section.

CONICALITY
Con`i*cal"i*ty, n.

Defn: Conicalness.

CONICALLY
Con"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the form of a cone.

CONICALNESS
Con"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: State or quality of being conical.

CONICO-
Con"i*co- (, a. Etym: [See Conic.]

Defn: A combining form, meaning somewhat resembling a cone; as,
conico-cylindrical, resembling a cone and a cylinder; conico-
hemispherical; conico-subulate.

CONICOID
Con"i*coid, a. Etym: [Conic + -oid.] (Math.)

Defn: Same as Conoidal.

CONICS
Con"ics, n.

1. That branch of geometry which treats of the cone and the curves
which arise from its sections.

2. Conic sections.

CONIDIUM
Co*nid"i*um, n.; pl. Conida. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A peculiar kind of reproductive cell found in certain fungi,
and often containing zoöspores.

CONIFER
Co"ni*fer, n. Etym: [L. conifer; conus cone + ferre to bear: cf. F.
conifère.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree or shrub bearing cones; one of the order Coniferae,
which includes the pine, cypress, and (according to some) the yew.

CONIFERIN
Co*nif"er*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside extracted from the cambium layer of coniferous
trees as a white crystalline substance.

CONIFEROUS
Co*nif"er*ous, a.
(a) Bearing cones, as the pine and cypress.
(b) Pertaining to the order Coniferae, of which the pine tree is the
type.

CONIFORM
Co"ni*form, a. Etym: [Cone + -form: cf. F. coniforme.]

Defn: Cone-shaped; conical.

CONIINE
Co*ni"ine ( or , n.

Defn: See Conine.

CONIMENE
Co"ni*mene, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Olibene.

CONINE
Co"nine ( or , n. Etym: [From Conium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A powerful and very poisonous vegetable alkaloid found in the
hemlock (Conium maculatum) and extracted as a colorless oil, C8H17N,
of strong repulsive odor and acrid taste. It is regarded as a
derivative of piperidine and likewise of one of the collidines. It
occasions a gradual paralysis of the motor nerves. Called also
coniine, coneine, conia, etc. See Conium, 2.

CONIROSTER
Co`ni*ros"ter, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Conirostres.

CONIROSTRAL
Co`ni*ros"tral, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Conirostres.

CONIROSTRES
Co`ni*ros"tres, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. conus cone + rostrum beak:
cf. F. conirostre.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tribe of perching birds, including those which have a strong
conical bill, as the finches.

CONISOR
Con`i*sor", n. Etym: [Obs.]

Defn: See Cognizor.

CONISTRA
Co*nis"tra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Greek Antiq.)

Defn: Originally, a part of the palestra, or gymnasium among the
Greeks; either the place where sand was stored for use in sprinkling
the wrestlers, or the wrestling ground itself. Hence, a part of the
orchestra of the Greek theater.

CONITE
Co"nite, n. Etym: [Gr. conite. So called on account of its gray
color.] (Min.)

Defn: A magnesian variety of dolomite.

CONIUM
Co*ni"um ( or , n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of biennial, poisonous, white-flowered, umbelliferous
plants, bearing ribbed fruit ("seeds") and decompound leaves.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The common hemlock (Conium maculatum, poison hemlock, spotted
hemlock, poison parsley), a roadside weed of Europe, Asia, and
America, cultivated in the United States for medicinal purpose. It is
an active poison. The leaves and fruit are used in medicine.

CONJECT
Con*ject", v. t. Etym: [L. conjectus, p.p. of conjicere. See
Conjecture, n.]

Defn: To throw together, or to throw. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu.

CONJECT
Con*ject", v. t.

Defn: To conjecture; also, to plan. [Obs.]

CONJECTOR
Con*ject"or, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who guesses or conjectures. [Obs.]
A great conjector at other men by their writings. Milton.

CONJECTURABLE
Con*jec"tur*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being conjectured or guessed.

CONJECTURAL
Con*jec"tur*al, a. Etym: [L. conjecturalis: cf. F. conjectural.]

Defn: Dependent on conjecture; fancied; imagined; guessed at;
undetermined; doubtful.
And mak'st conjectural fears to come into me. Shak.
A slight expense of conjectural analogy. Hugh Miller.
Who or what such editor may be, must remain conjectural. Carlyle.

CONJECTURALIST
Con*jec"tur*al*ist, n.

Defn: A conjecturer. [R.] Month. rev.

CONJECTURALLY
Con*jec`tur*al"ly, n.

Defn: That which depends upon guess; guesswork. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

CONJECTURALLY
Con*jec`tur*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a conjectural manner; by way of conjecture. Boyle.

CONJECTURE
Con*jec"ture, n. Etym: [L. conjectura, fr. conjicere, conjectum, to
throw together, infer, conjecture; con- + jacere to throw: cf. F.
conjecturer. See Jet a shooting forth.]

Defn: An opinion, or judgment, formed on defective or presumptive
evidence; probable inference; surmise; guess; suspicion.
He [Herodotus] would thus have corrected his first loose conjecture
by a real study of nature. Whewell.
Conjectures, fancies, built on nothing firm. Milton.

CONJECTURE
Con*jec"ture, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conjectured; p.pr. & vb.n.
Conjecturing.] Etym: [Cf. F. conjecturer. Cf. Conject.]

Defn: To arrive at by conjecture; to infer on slight evidence; to
surmise; to guess; to form, at random, opinions concerning.
Human reason can then, at the best, but conjecture what will be.
South.

CONJECTURE
Con*jec"ture, v. i.

Defn: To make conjectures; to surmise; to guess; to infer; to form an
opinion; to imagine.

CONJECTURER
Con*jec"tur*er, n.

Defn: One who conjectures. Hobbes.

CONJOIN
Con*join, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conjoined; p.pr. & vb.n. Conjoining.]
Etym: [F. conjoindre, fr. L. conjungere, -junctum; con- + jungere to
join. See Join, and cf. Conjugate, Conjunction.]

Defn: To join together; to unite.
The English army, that divided was Into two parties, is now conjoined
in one. Shak.
If either of you know any inward impediment why you should not be
conjoined. Shak.
Let that which he learns next be nearly conjoined with what he knows
already. Locke.

CONJOIN
Con*join", v. i.

Defn: To unite; to join; to league. Shak.

CONJOINED
Con*joined", a. (Her.)

Defn: Joined together or touching.

CONJOINT
Con*joint", a. Etym: [F. conjoint, p.p. of conjoindre. See Conjoin,
and cf. Conjunct.]

Defn: United; connected; associated. "Influence conjoint." Glover.
Conjoint degrees (Mus.), two notes which follow each other
immediately in the order of the scale, as ut and re. Johnson.
Conjoint tetrachords (Mus.), two tetrachords or fourths, where the
same note is the highest of one and the lowest of the other; -- also
written conjunct.

CONJOINTLY
Con*joint"ly, adv.

Defn: In a conjoint manner; untitedly; jointly; together. Sir T.
Browne.

CONJOINTNESS
Con*joint"ness, n.

Defn: The qquality of being conjoint.

CONJUBILANT
Con*ju"bi*lant, a.

Defn: Shouting together for joy; rejoicing together. [R.] Neale.

CONJUGAL
Con"ju*gal, a. Etym: [L. conjugalis, fr. conjux husband, wife,
consort, fr. conjungere to unite, join in marriage. See Conjoin.]

Defn: Belonging to marriage; suitable or appropriate to the marriage
state or to married persons; matrimonial; connubial. "Conjugal
affection." Milton.

CONJUGALITY
Con`ju*gal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The conjugal state; sexual intercourse. [R.] Milton.

CONJUGALLY
Con"ju*gal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a conjugal manner; matrimonially; connubially.

CONJUGATE
Con"ju*gate, a. Etym: [L. conjugatus, p.p. or conjugare to unite;
con- + jugare to join, yoke, marry, jugum yoke; akin to jungere to
join. See Join.]

1. United in pairs; yoked together; coupled.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: In single pairs; coupled.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: Containing two or more radicals supposed to act the part of a
single one. [R.]

4. (Gram.)

Defn: Agreeing in derivation and radical signification; -- said of
words.

5. (Math.)

Defn: Presenting themselves simultaneously and having reciprocal
properties; -- frequently used in pure and applied mathematics with
reference to two quantities, points, lines, axes, curves, etc.
Conjugate axis of a hyperbola (Math.), the line through the center of
the curve, perpendicular to the line through the two foci.
 -- Conjugate diameters (Conic Sections), two diameters of an ellipse
or hyperbola such that each bisects all chords drawn parallel to the
other.
 -- Conjugate focus (Opt.) See under Focus.
 -- Conjugate mirrors (Optics), two mirrors so placed that rays from
the focus of one are received at the focus of the other, especially
two concave mirrors so placed that rays proceeding from the principal
focus of one and reflected in a parallel beam are received upon the
other and brought to the principal focus.
 -- Conjugate point (Geom.), an acnode. See Acnode, and Double point.
 -- Self-conjugate triangle (Conic Sections), a triangle each of
whose vertices is the pole of the opposite side with reference to a
conic.

CONJUGATE
Con`ju*gate, n. Etym: [L. conjugatum a combining, etymological
relationship.]

1. A word agreeing in derivation with another word, and therefore
generally resembling it in signification.
We have learned, in logic, that conjugates are sometimes in name
only, and not in deed. Abp. Bramhall.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A complex radical supposed to act the part of a single radical.
[R.]

CONJUGATE
Con"ju*gate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conjugated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Conjugating.]

1. To unite in marriage; to join. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: To inflect (a verb), or give in order the forms which it
assumed in its several voices, moods, tenses, numbers, and persons.

CONJUGATE
Con"ju*gate, v. i. (Biol.)

Defn: To unite in a kind of sexual union, as two or more cells or
individuals among the more simple plants and animals.

CONJUGATION
Con`ju*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. conjugatio conjugation (in senses 1 &
3).]

1. the act of uniting or combining; union; assemblage. [Obs.]
Mixtures and conjugations of atoms. Bentley.

2. Two things conjoined; a pair; a couple. [Obs.]
The sixth conjugations or pair of nerves. Sir T. Browne.

3. (Gram.)
(a) The act of conjugating a verb or giving in order its various
parts and inflections.
(b) A scheme in which are arranged all the parts of a verb.
(c) A class of verbs conjugated in the same manner.

4. (Biol.)

Defn: A kind of sexual union; -- applied to a blending of the
contents of two or more cells or individuals in some plants and lower
animals, by which new spores or germs are developed.

CONJUGATIONAL
Con`ju*ga"tion*al, a.

Defn: relating to conjugation. Ellis.

CONJUGIAL
Con*ju"gi*al, a. Etym: [L. conjugialis, fr. conjugium. Cf. Conjugal.]

Defn: Conjugal. [R.] Swedenborg.

CONJUGIUM
Con*ju"gi*um, n. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Law)

Defn: The marriage tie.

CONJUNCT
Con*junct", a. Etym: [L. conjunctus, p.p. See Conjoin.]

1. United; conjoined; concurrent. [Archaic]

2. (Her.)

Defn: Same as Conjoined.

CONJUNCTION
Con*junc"tion, n. Etym: [L. conjunctio: cf. F. conjunction. See
Conjoin.]

1. The act of conjoining, or the state of being conjoined, united, or
associated; union; association; league.
He will unite the white rose and the red: Smille heaven upon his fair
conjunction. Shak.
Man can effect no great matter by his personal strength but as he
acts in society and conjunction with others. South.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The meeting of two or more stars or planets in the same degree
of the zodiac; as, the conjunction of the moon with the sun, or of
Jupiter and Saturn. See the Note under Aspect, n., 6.

Note: Heavenly bodies are said to be in conjunction when they are
seen in the same part of the heavens, or have the same longitude or
right ascension. The inferior conjunction of an inferior planet is
its position when in conjunction on the same side of the sun with the
earth; the superior conjunction of a planet is its position when on
the side of the sun most distant from the earth.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: A connective or connecting word; an indeclinable word which
serves to join together sentences, clauses of a sentence, or words;
as, and, but, if.
Though all conjunctions conjoin sentences, yet, with respect to the
sense, some are conjunctive and some disjunctive. Harris.

CONJUNCTIONAL
Con*junc"tion*al, a.

Defn: Relating to a conjunction.

CONJUNCTIVA
Con`junc*ti"va, n. Etym: [NL., from L. conjunctivus connective.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The mucous membrane which covers the external surface of the
ball of the eye and the inner surface of the lids; the conjunctival
membrance.

CONJUNCTIVAL
Con`junc*ti"val, a.

1. Joining; connecting.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the conjunctiva.

CONJUNCTIVE
Con*junc"tive, a. Etym: [L. conjunctivus.]

1. Serving to unite; connecting together.

2. Closely united. [Obs.] Shak. Conjunctive mood (Gram.), the mood
which follows a conjunction or expresses contingency; the subjunctive
mood.
 -- Conjunctive tissue (Anat.), the tissue found in nearly all parts
of most animals. It yields gelatin on boiling, and consists of
vriously arranged fibers which are imbedded protoplasmic cells, or
corpuscles; -- called also cellular tissue and connective tissue.
Adipose or fatty tissue is one of its many forms, and cartilage and
bone are sometimes included by the phrase.

CONJUNCTIVELY
Con*junc"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In conjunction or union; together. Sir T. Browne.

CONJUNCTIVENESS
Con*junc"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being conjunctive. Johnson.

CONJUNCTIVITIS
Con*junc`ti*vi"tis ( or , n. (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the conjunctiva.

CONJUNCTLY
Con*junct"ly, adv.

Defn: In union; conjointly; unitedly; together. Sir W. Hamilton.

CONJUNCTURE
Con*junc"ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. conjoncture, LL. conjunctura.]

1. The act of joining, or state of being joined; union; connection;
combination.
The conjuncture of philosophy and divinity. Hobbes.
A fit conjuncture or circumstances. Addison.

2. A crisis produced by a combination of circumstances; complication
or combination of events or circumstances; plight resulting from
various conditions.
He [Chesterfield] had recently governed Ireland, at a momentous
conjuncture, with eminent firmness, wisdom, and humanity. Macaulay.

CONJURATION
Con`ju*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. conjuratio, cf. F. conjuration.]

1. The act of calling or summoning by a sacred name, or in solemn
manner; the act of binding by an oath; an earnest entreaty;
adjuration.
We charge you, in the name of God, take heed; . . . Under this
conjuration speak, my lord. Shak.

2. The act or process of invoking supernatural aid by the use of a
magical form of words; the practice of magic arts; incantation;
enchantment.
Pretended conjurations and prophecies of that event. Hallam.

3. A league for a criminal purpose; conspiracy. [Obs.] "The
conjuration of Catiline." Sir T. Elyot.

CONJURATOR
Con"ju*ra`tor, n. Etym: [LL.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: One who swears or is sworn with others; one bound by oath with
others; a compurgator. Burrill.

CONJURE
Con*jure", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conjured; p.pr. & vb.n. Conjuring.]
Etym: [F. conjurer, fr. L. conjurare to swear together, to conspire;
con- + jurare to swear. See Jury.]

Defn: To call on or summon by a sacred name or in solemn manner; to
implore earnestly; to adjure.
I conjure you, let him know, Whate'er was done against him, Cato did
it. Addison.

CONJURE
Con*jure", v. i.

Defn: To combine together by an eath; to conspire; to confederate. [A
Latinism]
Drew after him the third part of Heaven's sons Conjured against the
Highest. Milton.

CONJURE
Con"jure, v. t.

Defn: To affect or effect by conjuration; to call forth or send away
by magic arts; to excite or alter, as if by magic or by the aid of
supernatural powers.
The habitation which your prophet . . . conjured the devil into.
Shak.
To conjure up, or make visible, as a spirit, by magic arts; hence, to
invent; as, to conjure up a story; to conjure up alarms.

CONJURE
Con"jure, v. i.

Defn: To practice magical arts; to use the tricks of a conjurer; to
juggle; to charm.
She conjures; away with her. Shak.

CONJUREMENT
Con*jure"ment, n.

Defn: Serious injunction; solemn demand or entreaty. [Obs.] Milton.

CONJURER
Con*jur"er, n.

Defn: One who conjures; one who calls, entreats, or charges in a
solemn manner.

CONJURER
Con"jur*er, n.

1. One who practices magic arts; one who pretends to act by the aid
super natural power; also, one who performs feats of legerdemain or
sleight of hand.
Dealing with witches and with conjurers. Shak.
From the account the loser brings, The conjurer knows who stole the
things. Prior.

2. One who conjectures shrewdly or judges wisely; a man of sagacity.
[Obs.] Addison.

CONJUROR
Con*ju"ror, n. (Law)

Defn: One bound by a common cath with others. [Obs.]

CONJURY
Con"ju*ry, n.

Defn: The practice of magic; enchantment. Motley.

CONN
Conn, v. t.

Defn: See Con, to direct a ship.

CONNASCENCE; CONNASCENCY
Con*nas"cence, Con*nas"cen*cy, n. Etym: [L. con- + nascentia birth,
fr. nascens, p.pr. of nasci to be born.]

1. The common birth of two or more at the same tome; production of
two or more together. Johnson.

2. That which is born or produced with another.

3. The act of growing together. [Obs.] Wiseman.

CONNASCENT
Con*nas"cent, a.

Defn: Born together; produced at the same time. Craig.

CONNATE
Con"nate, a. Etym: [L. connatus; con- + natus born, p.p. of nasci.
See Cognate.]

1. Born with another; being of the same birth.

2. Congenital; existing from birth. "Connate notions." South.
A difference has been made by some; those diseases or conditions
which are dependent on original conformation being called congenital;
while the diseases of affections that may have supervened during
gestation or delivery are called connate. Dunglison.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Congenitally united; growing from one base, or united at their
bases; united into one body; as, connate leaves or athers. See
Illust. of Connate-perfoliate.

CONNATE-PERFOLIATE
Con"nate-per*fo"li*ate, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Connate or coalescent at the base so as to produce a broad
foliaceous body through the center of which the stem passes; --
applied to leaves, as the leaves of the boneset.

CONNATION
Con*na"tion, n.

Defn: Connection by birth; natural union. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

CONNATURAL
Con*nat"u*ral, a. Etym: [Pref. con- + natural.]

1. Connected by nature; united in nature; inborn; inherent; natural.
These affections are connatural to us. L'Estrange.

2. Partaking of the same nature.
And mix with our connatural dust. Milton.

CONNATURALITY
Con*nat`u*ral"i*ty, n.

Defn: Participation of the same nature; natural union or connection.
[R.]
A congruity and connaturality between them. Sir M. Hale.

CONNATURALIZE
Con*nat"u*ral*ize, v. t.

Defn: To bring to the same nature as something else; to adapt. [Obs.]
Dr. J. Scott.

CONNATURALLY
Con*nat"u*ral*ly, adv.

Defn: By the act of nature; originally; from birth. Sir M. Hale.

CONNATURALNESS
Con*nat"u*ral*ness, n.

Defn: Participation of the same nature; natural union. I. Walton.

CONNATURE
Con*na"ture, n.

Defn: Participation in a common nature or character. [R.]
Connature was defined as likeness in kind between either two changes
in consciousness, or two states of consciousness. H. Spencer.

CONNECT
Con*nect", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Connected; p.pr. & vb.n. Connecting.]
Etym: [L. connectere, -nexum; con- + nectere to bind. See Annex.]

1. To join, or fasten together, as by something intervening; to
associate; to combine; to unite or link together; to establish a bond
or relation between.
He fills, he bounds, connect and equals all. Pope.
A man must the connection of each intermediate idea with those that
it connects before he can use it in a syllogism. Locke.

2. To associate (a person or thing, or one's self) with another
person, thing, business, or affair. Connecting rod (Mach.), a rod or
bar joined to, and connecting, two or more moving parts; esp. a rod
connecting a crank wrist with a beam, crosshead, piston rod, or
piston, as in a steam engine.

CONNECT
Con*nect", v. i.

Defn: To join, unite, or cohere; to have a close relation; as, one
line of railroad connects with another; one argument connect with
another.

CONNECTEDLY
Con*nect"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a connected manner.

CONNECTION
Con*nec"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. Connexion.]

1. The act of connecting, or the state of being connected; junction;
union; alliance; relationship.
He [Algazel] denied the possibility of a known connection between
cause and effect. Whewell.
The eternal and inserable connection between virtue and hapiness.
Atterbury.

2. That which connects or joins together; bond; tie.
Any sort of connection which is perceived or imagined between two or
more things. I. Taylor.

3. A relation; esp. a person connected with another by marriage
rather than by blood; -- used in a loose and indefinite, and
sometimes a comprehensive, sense.

4. The persons or things that are connected; as, a business
connection; the Methodist connection.
Men elevated by powerful connection. Motley.
At the head of a strong parliamentary connection. Macaulay.
Whose names, forces, connections, and characters were perfectly known
to him. Macaulay.
In this connection, in connection with this subject.

Note: [A phrase objected to by some writers.]

Note: This word was formerly written, as by Milton, with x instead of
t in the termination, connexion, and the same thing is true of the
kindred words inflexion, reflexion, and the like. But the general
usage at present is to spell them connection, inflection, reflection,
etc.

Syn.
 -- Union; coherence; continuity; junction; association; dependence;
intercourse; commerce; communication; affinity; relationship.

CONNECTIVE
Con*nect"ive, a.

Defn: Connecting, or adapted to connect; involving connection.
Connection tissue (Anat.) See Conjunctive tissue, under Conjunctive.

CONNECTIVE
Con*nect"ive, n.

Defn: That which connects. Specifically:
(a) (Gram.) A word that connect words or sentences; a conjunction or
preposition.
(b) (Bot.) That part of an anther which connects its thecæ, lobes, or
cells.

CONNECTIVELY
Con*nect"ive*ly, adv.

Defn: In connjunction; jointly.

CONNECTOR
Con*nect"or, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, connects; as:
(a) A flexible tube for connecting the ends of glass tubes in
pneumatic experiments.
(b) A device for holding two parts of an electrical conductor in
contact.

CONNER
Con"ner, n. Etym: [Cf. Cunner.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine European fish (Crenilabrus melops); also, the related
American cunner. See Cunner.

CONNEX
Con*nex", v. t. Etym: [L. connexus, p.p. See Connect.]

Defn: To connect. Sir M. Hale.

CONNEXION
Con*nex"ion, n. Etym: [L. connexio: cf. F. connexion.]

Defn: Connection. See Connection.

CONNEXIVE
Con*nex"ive, a.

Defn: See Connective.

CONNING TOWER
Con"ning tow"er, n.

Defn: The shotproof pilot house of a war vessel.

CONNIVANCE
Con*niv"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. F. connivence, L. conniventia.]

1. Intentional failure or forbearance to discover a fault or
wrongdoing; voluntary oversight; passive consent or co

2. (Law)

Defn: Corrupt or guilty assent to wrongdoing, not involving actual
participation in, but knowledge of, and failure to prevent or oppose
it.

Syn.
 -- See Collusion.

CONNIVE
Con*nive", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Connived; p.pr. & vb.n. Conniving.]
Etym: [L. connivere to shut the eues, connive, fr. con- + (perh.) a
word akin to nicere to beckon, nictare to wink.]

1. To open and close the eyes rapidly; to wink. [Obs.]
The artist is to teach them how to nod judiciously, and to connive
with either eye. Spectator.

2. To close the eyes upon a fault; to wink (at); to fail or forbear
by intention to discover an act; to permit a proceeding, as if not
aware of it; -- usually followed by at.
To connive at what it does not approve. Jer. Taylor.
In many of these, the directors were heartily concurring; in most of
them, they were encouraging, and sometimes commanding; in all they
were conniving. Burke.
The government thought it expedient, occasionally, to connive at the
violation of this rule. Macaulay.

CONNIVE
Con*nive", v. t.

Defn: To shut the eyes to; to overlook; to pretend not to see. [R. &
Obs.] "Divorces were not connived only, but with eye open allowed."
Milton.

CONNIVENCY
Con*niv"en*cy, n.

Defn: Connivance. [Obs.]

CONNIVENT
Con*niv"ent, a. Etym: [L. connivens, p. pr.]

1. Forbearing to see; designedly inattentive; as, connivent justice.
[R.] Milton.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Brought close together; arched inward so that the points meet;
converging; in close contact; as, the connivent petals of a flower,
wings of an insect, or folds of membrane in the human system, etc.

CONNIVER
Con*niv"er, n.

Defn: One who connives.

CONNOISSEUR
Con`nois*seur", n. Etym: [F. connaisseur, formerly connoisseur, fr.
connaître to know, fr. L. cognoscere to become acquainted with; co- +
noscere, gnoscere, to learn to know. See Know, amd cf. Cognizor.]

Defn: One well versed in any subject; a skillful or knowing person; a
critical judge of any art, particulary of one of the fine arts.
The connoisseur is "one who knows," as opposed to the dilettant, who
only "thinks he knows." Fairholt.

CONNOISSEURSHIP
Con`nois*seur"ship, n.

Defn: State of being a connoisseur.

CONNOTATE
Con"no*tate, v. t. Etym: [L. con- + notatus, p.p.of notare to mark.
Cf. Connote.]

Defn: To connote; to suggest or designate (something) as additional;
to include; to imply. Hammond.

CONNOTATION
Con`no*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. connotation.]

Defn: The act of connoting; a making known or designating something
additional; implication of something more than is asserted.

CONNOTATIVE
Con*no"ta*tive ( or ), a.

1. Implying something additional; illative.

2. (Log.)

Defn: Implying an attribute. See Connote. Connotative term, one which
denotes a subject and implies an attribute. J. S. Mill.

CONNOTATIVELY
Con*no"ta*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a connotative manner; expressing connotation.

CONNOTE
Con*note", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Connoted; p.pr. & vb.n. Connoting.]
Etym: [See Connotate, and Note.]

1. To mark along with; to suggest or indicate as additional; to
designate by implication; to include in the meaning; to imply.
Good, in the general notion of it, connotes also a certain
suitableness of it to some other thing. South.

2. (Logic)

Defn: To imply as an attribute.
The word "white" denotes all white things, as snow, paper, the foam
of the sea, etc., and ipmlies, or as it was termed by the schoolmen,
connotes, the attribute "whiteness." J. S. Mill.

CONNUBIAL
Con*nu"bi*al, a. Etym: [L. connubialis, fr. connubium marriage; con-
+ nubere to veil, to marry. See Nupital.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to marriage, or the marriage state; conjugal;
nuptial.
Nor Eve the rites Mysterious of connubial love refused. Milton.
Kind, connubial tenderness. Goldsmith.

CONNUBIALITY
Con*nu`bi*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being connubial; something characteristics of
the conjugal state; an expression of connubial tenderness.
Some connubialities which had begun to pass between Mr. and Mrs. B.
Dickens.

CONNUMERATION
Con*nu`mer*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. connumeratio, fr. L. connumerare, -
numeratum, to number with.]

Defn: A reckoning together. [R.] Porson.

CONNUSANCE
Con"nu*sance, n. (Law)

Defn: See Cognizance. [Obs.]

CONNUSANT
Con"nu*sant, a. (Law)

Defn: See Cognizant. [Obs.]

CONNUSOR
Con`nu*sor", n. (Law)

Defn: See Cognizor. [Obs.]

CONNUTRITIOUS
Con`nu*tri"tious, a.

Defn: Nutritious by force of habit; -- said of certain kinds of food.
[Obs.] Crabb.

CONNY
Con"ny, a. [Canny, Gunning.]

Defn: Brave; fine; canny. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.

CONODONT
Co"no*dont, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar toothlike fossil of many forms, found especially in
carboniferous rocks. Such fossils are supposed by some to be the
teeth of marsipobranch fishes, but they are probably the jaws of
annelids.

CONOID
Co"noid, n. Etym: [Gr. conoïde.]

1. Anything that has a form resembling that of a cone.

2. (Geom.)
(a) A solid formed by the revolution of a conic section about its
axis; as, a parabolic conoid, elliptic conoid, etc.; -- more commonly
called paraboloid, ellipsoid, etc.
(b) A surface which may be generated by a straight line moving in
such a manner as always to meet a given straight line and a given
curve, and continue parallel to a given plane. Math. Dict.

CONOID
Co"noid

Defn: , Resembling a cone; conoidal.

CONOIDAL
Co*noid"al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. conoïdal.]

Defn: Nearly, but not exactly, conical. Lindley.

CONOIDIC; CONOIDICAL
Co*noid"ic, Co*noid"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a conoid; having the form of a conoid.

CONOMINEE
Co*nom`i*nee", n.

Defn: One nominated in conjunction with another; a joint nominee.
Kirby.

CONQUADRATE
Con*quad"rate, v. t. Etym: [L. conquadratus, p.p. of conquadrare.]

Defn: To bring into a square. [R.] Ash.

CONQUASSATE
Con*quas"sate, v. t. Etym: [L. conquassatus, p.p. of conquassare.]

Defn: To shake; to agitate. [Obs.] Harvey.
 -- Con`quas*sa"tion, n. [Obs.]

CONQUER
Con"quer, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conquered; p.pr. & vb.n. Conquering.]
Etym: [OF. conquerre, F. conquérir, fr. L. conquirere, -quisitum, to
seek or search for, to bring together, LL., to conquer; con- +
quaerere to seek. See Quest.]

1. To gain or acquire by force; to take possession of by violent
means; to gain dominion over; to subdue by physical means; to reduce;
to overcome by force of arms; to cause to yield; to vanquish. "If
thou conquer Rome." Shak.
If we be conquer'd, let men conquer us. Shak.
We conquered France, but felt our captive's charms. Pope.

2. To subdue or overcome by mental or moral power; to surmount; as,
to conquer difficulties, temptatin, etc.
By winning words to conquer hearts, And make persuasion do the work
of fear. Milton.

3. To gain or obtain, overcoming obstacles in the way; to win; as, to
conquer freedom; to conquer a peace.

Syn.
 -- To subdue; vanquish; overcome; overpower; overthrow; defeat;
rout; discomfit; subjugate; reduce; humble; crush; surmount; subject;
master.
 -- To Conquer, Vanquish, Subdue, Subjugate, Overcome. These words
agree in the general idea expressed by overcome, -- that of bringing
under one's power by the exertion of force. Conquer is wider and more
general than vanquish, denoting usually a succession of conflicts.
Vanquish is more individual, and refers usually to a single conflict.
Thus, Alexander conquered Asia in a succession of battles, and
vanquished Darius in one decisive engagement. Subdue implies a more
gradual and continual pressure, but a surer and more final
subjection. We speak of a nation as subdued when its spirit is at
last broken, so that no further resistance is offered. Subjugate is
to bring completely under the yoke of bondage. The ancient Gauls were
never finally subdued by the Romans until they were completely
subjugated. These words, when used figuratively, have correspondent
meanings. We conquer our prejudices or aversions by a succesion of
conflicts; but we sometimes vanquish our reluctance to duty by one
decided effort: we endeavor to subdue our evil propensities by
watchful and persevering exertions. Subjugate is more commonly taken
in its primary meaning, and when used figuratively has generally a
bad sense; as, his reason was completely subjugated to the sway of
his passions.

CONQUER
Con"quer, v. i.

Defn: To gain the victory; to overcome; to prevail.
He went forth conquering and to conquer. Rev. vi. 2.
The champions resolved to conquer or to die. Waller.

CONQUERABLE
Con*quer*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being conquered or subdued. South.
 -- Con"quer*a*ble*ness, n.

CONQUERESS
Con"quer*ess, n.

Defn: A woman who conquers. Fairfax.

CONQUEROR
Con"quer*or, n. Etym: [OF. conquereor, fr. conquerre,]

Defn: One who conquers. The Conqueror (Eng. Hist.). William the
Norman (1027-1067) who invaded England, defeated Harold in the battle
of Hastings, and was crowned king, in 1066.

CONQUEST
Con"quest, n. Etym: [OF. conquest, conqueste, F. conquête, LL.
conquistum, conquista, prop. p.p. from L. conquirere. See Conquer.]

1. The act or process of conquering, or acquiring by force; the act
of overcoming or subduing opposition by force, whether physical or
moral; subjection; subjugation; victory.
In joys of conquest he resigns his breath. Addison.
Three years sufficed for the conquest of the country. Prescott.

2. That which is conquered; possession gained by force, physical or
moral.
Wherefore rejoice What conquest brings he home Shak.

3. (Feudal Law)

Defn: The acquiring of property by other means than by inheritance;
acquisition. Blackstone.

4. The act of gaining or regaining by successful strugle; as, the
conquest of liberty or peace. The Conquest (Eng. Hist.), the
subjugation of England by William of Normandy in 1066.

Syn.
 -- Victory; triumph; mastery; reduction; subjugation; subjection.

CONQUIAN
Con"qui*an, n. (Card Playing)

Defn: A game for two, played with 40 cards, in which each player
tries to form three or four of a kind or sequences.

CONSANGUINEAL
Con`san*guin"e*al, a.

Defn: Of the same blood; related by birth. Sir T. Browne.

CONSANGUINED
Con*san"guined, a.

Defn: Of kin blood; related. [R.] Johnson.

CONSANGUINEOUS
Con`san*guin"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. conguineus; con- + sanguis blood:
cf. F. consanguin. See Sanquine.]

Defn: Of the same blood; related by birth; descended from the same
parent or ancestor. Shak.

CONSANGUINITY
Con`san*guin"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. consanguinitas: cf. F.
consanguintit.]

Defn: The relation of person by blood, is distinction from affinity
or relation by marriage; blood relationship; as, lineal
consanguinity; collateral consanguinity.
Invoking aid by the ties of consanguinity. Prescott.

CONSARCINATION
Con*sar`ci*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. consarcinare, -natum, to patch
together.]

Defn: A patching together; patchwork. [Obs.] Bailey.

CONSCIENCE
Con"science, n. Etym: [F. conscience, fr. L. conscientia, fr.
consciens, p.pr. of conscire to know, to be conscious; con- + scire
to know. See Science.]

1. Knowledge of one's own thoughts or actions; consciousness. [Obs.]
The sweetest cordial we receive, at last, Is conscience of our
virtuous actions past. Denham.

2. The faculty, power, or inward principle which decides as to the
character of one's own actions, purposes, and affections, warning
against and condemning that which is wrong, and approving and
prompting to that which is right; the moral faculty passing judgment
on one's self; the moral sense.
My conscience hath a thousand several tongues, And every tongue
brings in a several tale, And every tale condemns me for a villain.
Shak.
As science means knowledge, conscience etymologically means self-
knowledge . . . But the English word implies a moral standard of
action in the mind as well as a consciousness of our own actions. . .
. Conscience is the reason, employed about questions of right and
wrong, and accompanied with the sentiments of approbation and
condemnation. Whewell.

3. The estimate or determination of conscience; conviction or right
or duty.
Conscience supposes the existence of some such [i.e., moral] faculty,
and properly signifies our consciousness of having acted agreeably or
contrary to its directions. Adam Smith.

4. Tenderness of feeling; pity. [Obs.] Chaucer. Conscience clause, a
clause in a general law exempting persons whose religious scruples
forbid compliance therewith, -- as from taking judicial oaths,
rendering military service, etc.
 -- Conscience money, stolen or wrongfully acquired money that is
voluntarily restored to the rightful possessor. Such money paid into
the United States treasury by unknown debtors is called the
Conscience fund.
 -- Court of Conscience, a court established for the recovery of
small debts, in London and other trading cities and districts. [Eng.]
Blackstone.
 -- In conscience, In all conscience, in deference or obedience to
conscience or reason; in reason; reasonably. "This is enough in
conscience." Howell. "Half a dozen fools are, in all conscience, as
many as you should require." Swift.
 -- To make conscience of, To make a matter of conscience, to act
according to the dictates of conscience concerning (any matter), or
to scruple to act contrary to its dictates.

CONSCIENCED
Con"scienced, a.

Defn: Having a conscience. [R.] "Soft-conscienced men." Shak.

CONSCIENCELESS
Con"science*less, a.

Defn: Without conscience; indifferent to conscience; unscrupulous.
Conscienceless and wicked patrons. Hookre.

CONSCIENT
Con"scient, a. Etym: [L. consciens, -entis, p.pr.]

Defn: Conscious. [R.] Bacon.

CONSCIENTIOUS
Con`sci*en"tious, a. Etym: [Cf. F. consciencieux, LL.
conscientiosus.]

1. Influenced by conscience; governed by a strict regard to the
dictates of conscience, or by the known or supposed rules of right
and wrong; -- said of a person.
The advice of wise and conscientious men. Prescott.

2. Characterized by a regard to conscience; conformed to the dictates
of conscience; -- said of actions.
A holy and conscientious course. Abp. Tillotson.

Syn.
 -- Scrupulous; exact; faithful; just; upright.

CONSCIENTIOUSLY
Con`sci*en"tious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a conscientious manner; as a matter of conscience; hence;
faithfully; accurately; completely.

CONSCIENTIOUSNESS
Con`sci*en"tious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being conscientious; a scrupulous regard to the
dictates of conscience.

CONSCIONABLE
Con"scion*a*ble, a. Etym: [Irregularly formed fr. conscience.]

Defn: Governed by, or according to, conscience; reasonable; just.
Let my debtors have conscionable satisfaction. Sir H. Wotton.

CONSCIONABLENESS
Con"scion*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being conscionable; reasonableness. Johnson.

CONSCIONABLY
Con"scion*a*bly, adv.

Defn: Reasonably; justly.

CONSCIOUS
Con"scious, a. Etym: [L. conscius; con- + scire to know. See
Conscience.]

1. Possessing the faculty of knowing one's own thoughts or mental
operations.
Some are thinking or conscious beings, or have a power of thought. I.
Watts.

2. Possessing knowledge, whether by internal, conscious experience or
by external observation; cognizant; aware; sensible.
Her conscious heart imputed suspicion where none could have been
felt. Hawthorne.
The man who breathes most healthilly is least conscious of his own
breathing. De Quincey.

3. Made the object of consciousness; known to one's self; as,
conscious guilt.
With conscious terrors vex me round. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Aware; apprised; sensible; felt; known.

CONSCIOUSLY
Con"scious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a conscious manner; with knowledge of one's own mental
operations or actions.

CONSCIOUSNESS
Con"scious*ness, n.

1. The state of being conscious; knowledge of one's own existence,
condition, sensations, mental operations, acts, etc.
Consciousness is thus, on the one hand, the recognition by the mind
or "ego" of its acts and affections; -- in other words, the self-
affirmation that certain modifications are known by me, and that
these modifications are mine. Sir W. Hamilton.

2. Immediate knowledge or perception of the presence of any object,
state, or sensation. See the Note under Attention.
Annihilate the consciousness of the object, you annihilate the
consciousness of the operation. Sir W. Hamilton.
And, when the steam Which overflowed the soul had passed away, A
consciousness remained that it had left. . . . images and precious
thoughts That shall not die, and can not be destroyed. Wordsworth.
The consciousness of wrong brought with it the consciousness of
weakness. Froude.

3. Feeling, persuasion, or expectation; esp., inward sense of guilt
or innocence. [R.]
An honest mind is not in the power of a dishonest: to break its peace
there must be some guilt or consciousness. Pope.

CONSCRIBE
Con*scribe", v. t. Etym: [L. conscribere. See Conscript.]

Defn: To enroll; to enlist. [Obs.] E. Hall.

CONSCRIPT
Con"script, a. Etym: [L. conscriptus, p.p. of conscribere to write
together, to enroll; con- + scribere to write. See Scribe.]

Defn: Enrolled; written; registered. Conscript fathers (Rom. Antiq.),
the senators of ancient Rome. When certain new senators were first
enrolled with the "fathers" the body was called Patres et Conscripti;
afterward all were called Patres conscripti.

CONSCRIPT
Con"script, n.

Defn: One taken by lot, or compulsorily enrolled, to serve as a
soldier or sailor.

CONSCRIPT
Con*script", v. t.

Defn: To enroll, by compulsion, for military service.

CONSCRIPTION
Con*scrip"tion, n. Etym: [L. conscriptio: cf. F. conscription.]

1. An enrolling or registering.
The conscription of men of war. Bp. Burnet.

2. A compulsory enrollment of men for military or naval service; a
draft.

CONSCRIPTION
Con*scrip"tion, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or of the nature of, a conspiration.

CONSECRATE
Con"se*crate, a. Etym: [L. consceratus, p.p. of conscerare to
conscerate; con- + sacrare to consecrate, sacer sacred. See Sacred.]

Defn: Consecrated; devoted; dedicated; sacred.
They were assembled in that consecrate place. Bacon.

CONSECRATE
Con"se*crate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Consecrated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Consecrating.]

1. To make, or declare to be, sacred; to appropriate to sacred uses;
to set apart, dedicate, or devote, to the service or worship of God;
as, to consecrate a church; to give (one's self) unreservedly, as to
the service of God.
One day in the week is . . . consecrated to a holy rest. Sharp.

2. To set apart to a sacred office; as, to consecrate a bishop.
Thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons. Ex. xxix. 9.

3. To canonize; to exalt to the rank of a saint; to enroll among the
gods, as a Roman emperor.

4. To render venerable or revered; to hallow; to dignify; as, rules
or principles consecrated by time. Burke.

Syn.
 -- See Addict.

CONSECRATER
Con"se*cra`ter, n.

Defn: Consecrator.

CONSECRATION
Con`se*cra"tion, n. Etym: [L. consecratio: cf. F. consécration.]

Defn: The act or ceremony of consecrating; the state of being
consecrated; dedication.
Until the days of your consecration be at an end. Lev. viii. 33.
Consecration makes not a place sacred, but only solemny declares it
so. South.

CONSECRATOR
Con"se*cra`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who consecrates; one who performs the rites by which a
person or thing is devoted or dedicated to sacred purposes. [Written
also consecrater.]

CONSECRATORY
Con"se*cra*to*ry ( or ), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the act of consecration; dedicatory.
The consecratory prayer. Bp. Burnet.

CONSECTANEOUS
Con`sec*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. consectaneus.]

Defn: Following as a matter of course. Blount.

CONSECTARY
Con"sec*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. consectarius, fr. consectari to follow
after eagerly; con- + sectari to follow eagerly, fr. sequi to
follow.]

Defn: Following by consequence; consequent; deducible. [R.]
"Consectary impieties." Sir T. Browne.

CONSECTARY
Con"sec*ta*ry, n.

Defn: That which follows by consequence or is logically deducible;
deduction from premises; corollary. [R.] Milton.

CONSECUTE
Con"se*cute, v. t.

Defn: To follow closely; to endeavor to overtake; to pursue. [Obs.]
Bp. Burnet.

CONSECUTION
Con`se*cu"tion, n. Etym: [L. consecutio. See Consequent.]

1. A following, or sequel; actual or logical dependence. Sir M. Hale.

2. A succession or series of any kind. [Obs.] Sir I. Newton. Month of
consecution (Astron.), a month as reckoned from one conjunction of
the moon with the sun to another.

CONSECUTIVE
Con*sec"u*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. consécutif. See Consequent.]

1. Following in a train; suceeding one another in a regular order;
successive; uninterrupted in course or succession; with no interval
or break; as, fifty consecutive years.

2. Following as a consequence or result; actually or logically
dependent; consequential; succeeding.
The actions of a man consecutive to volition. Locke.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: Having similarity of sequence; -- said of certain parallel
progressions of two parts in a piece of harmony; as, consecutive
fifths, or consecutive octaves, which are forbidden. Consecutive
chords (Mus.), chords of the same kind suceeding one another without
interruption.

CONSECUTIVELY
Con*sec"u*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a consecutive manner; by way of sequence; successively.

CONSECUTIVENESS
Con*sec"u*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being consecutive.

CONSENSION
Con*sen"sion, n. Etym: [L. consensio.]

Defn: Agreement; accord. Bentley.

CONSENSUAL
Con*sen"su*al, a. Etym: [See Consent, v. i., and cf. Sensual.]

1. (Law)

Defn: Existing, or made, by the mutual consent of two or more
parties.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: Excited or caused by sensation, sympathy, or reflex action, and
not by conscious volition; as, consensual motions. Consensual
contract (Law), a contract formed merely by consent, as a marriage
contract.

CONSENSUS
Con*sen"sus, n. Etym: [L. See Consent.]

Defn: Agreement; accord; consent.
That traditional consensus of society which we call public opinion.
Tylor.

CONSENT
Con*sent", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Consented; p.pr. & vb.n Consenting.]
Etym: [F. consentir, fr. L. consentire, -sensum, to feel together,
agree; con- + sentire to feel. See Sense.]

1. To agree in opinion or sentiment; to be of the same mind; to
accord; to concur.
And Saul was consenting unto his death. Acts. viii. 1.
Flourishing many years before Wyclif, and much consenting with him in
jugdment. Fuller.

2. To indicate or express a willingness; to yield to guidance,
persuasion, or necessity; to give assent or approval; to comply.
My poverty, but not my will, consents. Shak.
And whispering "I will ne'er consent," -- consented. Byron.

Syn.
 -- To accede; yield; assent; comply; agree; allow; concede; permit;
admit; concur; acquiesce.

CONSENT
Con*sent", v. t.

Defn: To grant; to allow; to assent to; to admit. [Obs.]
Interpreters . . . will not consent it to be a true story. Milton.

CONSENT
Con*sent", n. Etym: [Cf. OF. consent.]

1. Agreement in opinion or sentiment; the being of one mind; accord.
All with one consent began to make exuse. Luke xiv. 18.
They feil together all, as by consent. Shak.

2. Correspondence in parts, qualities, or operations; agreement;
harmony; coherence.
The melodious consent of the birds. Holland.
Such is the world's great harmony that springs From union, order,
full consent of things. Pope.

3. Voluntary accordance with, or concurrence in, what is done or
proposed by another; acquiescence; compliance; approval; permission.
Thou wert possessed of David's throne By free consent of all. Milton.

4. (Law)

Defn: Capable, deliberate, and voluntary assent or agreement to, or
concurrence in, some act or purpose, implying physical and mental
power and free action.

5. (Physiol.)

Defn: Sympathy. See Sympathy, 4.

Syn.
 -- Assent; acquiescence; concurrence; agreement; approval;
permission. See Assent. Age of consent (Law), an age, fixed by
statute and varying in different jurisdictions, at which one is
competent to give consent. Sexual intercourse with a female child
under the age of consent is punishable as rape.

CONSENTANEITY
Con*sen`ta*ne"i*ty, n.

Defn: Mutual agreement. [R.]

CONSENTANEOUS
Con`sen*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. consentaneus.]

Defn: Consistent; agreeable; suitable; accordant to; harmonious;
concurrent.
A good law and consentaneous to reason. Howell.
-- Con`sen*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Con`sen*ta"ne*ous*ness, n.

CONSENTANT
Con*sent"ant, a. Etym: [F., p. pr. of consentir.]

Defn: Consenting. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CONSENTER
Con*sent"er, a.

Defn: One who consents.

CONSENTIENT
Con*sen"tient, a. Etym: [L. consentients, p. pr. See Consent.]

Defn: Agreeing in mind; accordant.
The consentient judgment of the church. Bp. Pearson.

CONSENTINGLY
Con*sent"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With consent; in a compliant manner. Jer. Taylor.

CONSEQUENCE
Con"se*quence, n. Etym: [L., consequentia: cf. F. conséquence. See
Consequent.]

1. That which follows something on which it depends; that which is
produced by a cause; a result.
Shun to taste, And shun the bitter consequence. Milton.

2. (Logic)

Defn: A proposition collected from the agreement of other previous
propositions; any conclusion which results from reason or argument;
inference.

3. Chain of causes and effects; consecution.
Such fatal consequence unites us three. Milton.
Link follows link by necessary consequence. Coleridge.

4. Importance with respect to what comes after; power to influence or
produce an effect; value; moment; rank; distinction.
It is a matter of small consequence. Shak.
A sense of your own worth and consequence. Cowper.
In consequence, hence; for this cause.
 -- In consequence of, by reason of; as the effect of.

Syn.
 -- Effect; result; end. See Effect.

CONSEQUENCING
Con"se*quen`cing, n.

Defn: Drawing inference. [R.] Milton.

CONSEQUENT
Con"se*quent, a. Etym: [L. consequens, -entis, p. pr. of consequi to
follow; con- + sequi to follow: cf. F. conséquent. See Second, and
cf. Consecution.]

1. Following as a result, inference, or natural effect.
The right was consequent to, and built on, an act perfectly personal.
Locke.

2. (Logic)

Defn: Following by necessary inference or rational deduction; as, a
proposition consequent to other propositions. Consequent points,
Consequent poles (Magnetism), a number of poles distributed under
certain conditions, along the axis of a magnetized steel bar, which
regularly has but the two poles at the extremities.

CONSEQUENT
Con"se*quent, n.

1. That which follows, or results from, a cause; a result or natural
effect.
They were ill-governed, which is always a consequent of ill payment.
Sir J. Davies.

2. (Logic)

Defn: That which follows from propositions by rational deduction;
that which is deduced from reasoning or argumentation; a conclusion,
or inference.

3. (Math.)

Defn: The second term of a ratio, as the term b in the ratio a:b, the
first a, being the antecedent.

CONSEQUENTIAL
Con`se*quen"tial, a.

1. Following as a consequence, result, or logical inference;
consequenment.
All that is revealed in Scripture has a consequential necessity of
being believed . . . because it is of divine authority. Locke.
These kind of arguments . . . are highly consequential and concludent
to my purpose. Sir M. Hale.

2. Assuming or exhibiting an air of consequence; pretending to
importance; pompous; self-important; as, a consequential man. See
Consequence, n., 4.
His stately and consequential pace. Sir W. Scott.
Consequential damage (Law) (a) Damage so remote as not to be
actionable (b) Damage which although remote is actionable. (c)
Actionable damage, but not following as an immediate result of an
act.

CONSEQUENTIALLY
Con`se*quen"tial*ly, adv.

1. With just deduction of consequence; with right connection of
ideas; logically.
The faculty of writing consequentially. Addison.

2. By remote consequence; not immediately; eventually; as, to do a
thing consequentially. South.

3. In a regular series; in the order of cause and effect; with
logical concatenation; consecutively; continuously.

4. With assumed importance; pompously.

CONSEQUENTIALNESS
Con`se*quen"tial*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being consequential.

CONSEQUENTLY
Con"se*quent*ly, adv.

Defn: By consequence; by natural or logical sequence or connection.

Syn.
 -- See Accordingly.

CONSERTION
Con*ser"tion, n. Etym: [L. consertio, fr. conserere, -sertum to
connect; con- + serere to join.]

Defn: Junction; adaptation [R.]
Consertion of design, how exquisite. Young.

CONSERVABLE
Con*serv"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. conservabilitis.]

Defn: Capable of being preserved from decay or injury.

CONSERVANCY
Con*serv"an*cy, n.

Defn: Conservation, as from injury, defilement, or irregular use.
[An act was] passed in 1866, for vesting in the Conservators of the
River Thames the conservancy of the Thames and Isis. Mozley & W.

CONSERVANT
Con*serv"ant, a. Etym: [L. conservans, p.pr.]

Defn: Having the power or quality of conservation.

CONSERVATION
Con`ser*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. conservatio: cf. F. conservation.]

Defn: The act of preserving, guarding, or protecting; the keeping (of
a thing) in a safe or entire state; preservation.
A step necessary for the conservation of Protestantism. Hallam.
A state without the means of some change is without the means of its
conservation. Burke.
Conservation of areas (Astron.), the principle that the radius vector
drawn from a planet to the sun sweeps over equal areas in equal
times.
 -- Conservation of energy, or Conservation of force (Mech.), the
principle that the total energy of any material system is a quantity
which can neither be increased nor diminished by any action between
the parts of the system, though it may be transformed into any of the
forms of which energy is susceptible. Clerk Maxwell.

CONSERVATIONAL
Con`ser*va"tion*al, a.

Defn: Tending to conserve; preservative.

CONSERVATISM
Con*serv"a*tism, n. Etym: [For conservatism.]

Defn: The disposition and tendency to preserve what is established;
opposition to change; the habit of mind; or conduct, of a
conservative.

CONSERVATIVE
Con*serv"a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. conservatif.]

1. Having power to preserve in a safe of entire state, or from loss,
waste, or injury; preservative.

2. Tending or disposed to maintain existing institutions; opposed to
change or innovation.

3. Of or pertaining to a political party which favors the
conservation of existing institutions and forms of government as the
Conservative party in england; -- contradistinguished from Liberal
and Radical.
We have always been conscientuously attached to what is called the
Tory, and which might with more propierty be called the Conservative,
party. Quart. Rev. (1830).
Conservative system (Mech.), a material sustem of such a nature that
after the system has undergone any series of changes, and been
brought back in any manner to its original state, the whole work done
by external agents on the system is equal to the whole work done by
the system overcoming external forces. Clerk Maxwell.

CONSERVATIVE
Con*serv"a*tive, n.

1. One who, or that which, preserves from ruin, injury, innovation,
or radical change; a preserver; a conserver.
The Holy Spirit is the great conservative of the new life. Jer.
Taylor.

2. One who desires to maintain existing institutions and customs;
also, one who holds moderate opinions in politics; -- opposed to
revolutionary or radical.

3. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A member of the Conservative party.

CONSERVATIVENESS
Con*serv"a*tive*ness, a.

Defn: The quality of being conservative.

CONSERVATOIRE
Con`ser"va*toire`, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A public place of instruction in any special branch, esp. music
and the arts. [See Conservatory, 3].

CONSERVATOR
Con"ser*va`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. conservateur.]

1. One who preserves from injury or violation; a protector; a
preserver.
The great Creator and Conservator of the world. Derham.

2. (Law)
(a) An officer who has charge of preserving the public peace, as a
justice or sheriff.
(b) One who has an official charge of preserving the rights and
privileges of a city, corporation, community, or estate.
The lords of the secret council were likewise made conservators of
the peace of the two kingdoms. Clarendon.
The conservator of the estate of an idiot. Bouvier.
Conservators of the River Thames, a board of comissioners instituted
by Parliament to have the conservancy of the Thames.

CONSERVATORY
Con*serv"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. conservatoire, LL.
conservatorius.]

Defn: Having the quality of preserving from loss, decay, or injury.

CONSERVATORY
Con*serv"a*to*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. conservatoire, LL.
conservatorium.]

1. That which preserves from injury. [Obs.] "A conservatory of life."
Jer. Taylor.

2. A place for preserving anything from loss, decay, waste, or
injury; particulary, a greenhouse for preserving exotic or tender
plants.

3. A public place of instruction, designed to preserve and perfect
the knowledge of some branch of science or art, esp. music.

CONSERVATRIX
Con`ser*va"trix, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A woman who preserves from loss, injury, etc.

CONSERVE
Con*serve", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conserved; p.pr. & vb.n. Conserving.]
Etym: [F. conserver, L. conservare; con- + servare to keep, guard.
See Serve.]

1. To keep in a safe or sound state; to save; to preserve; to
protect.
The amity which . . . they meant to conserve and maintain with the
emperor. Strype.

2. To prepare with sugar, etc., for the purpose of preservation, as
fruits, etc.; to make a conserve of.

CONSERVE
Con"serve, n. Etym: [F. conserve, fr. conserver.]

1. Anything which is conserved; especially, a sweetmeat prepared with
sugar; a confection.
I shall . . . study broths, plasters, and conserves, till from a fine
lady I become a notable woman. Tatler.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A medicinal confection made of freshly gathered vegetable
substances mixed with finely powdered refined sugar. See Confection.

3. A conservatory. [Obs.] Evelyn.

CONSERVER
Con*serv"er, n.

Defn: One who conserves.

CONSIDER
Con*sid"er, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Considered; p.pr. & vb.n.
Considering.] Etym: [F. considérer, L. considerare, -sideratum, to
consider, view attentively, prob. fr. con- + sidus, sideris, star,
constellation; orig., therefore, to look at the stars. See Sidereal,
and cf. Desire.]

1. To fix the mind on, with a view to a careful examination; to thank
on with care; to ponder; to study; to meditate on.
I will consider thy testimonies. Ps. cxix. 95.
Thenceforth to speculations high or deep I turned my thoughts, and
with capacious mind Considered all things visible. Milton.

2. To look at attentively; to observe; to examine.
She considereth a field, and buyeth it. Prov. xxxi. 16.

3. To have regard to; to take into view or account; to pay due
attention to; to respect.
Consider, sir, the chance of war: the day Was yours by accident.
Shak.
England could grow into a posture of being more united at home, and
more considered abroad. Sir W. Temple.

4. To estamate; to think; to regard; to view.
Considered as plays, his works are absurd. Macaulay.

Note: The proper sense of consider is often blended with an idea of
the result of considering; as, "Blessed is he that considereth the
poor." Ps. xli. 1. ; i.e., considers with sympathy and pity. "Which
[services] if I have not enough considered." Shak. ; i.e., requited
as the sufficient considering of them would suggest. "Consider him
liberally." J. Hooker.

Syn.
 -- To ponder; weigh; revolve; study; reflect or meditate on;
contemplate; examine. See Ponder.

CONSIDER
Con*sid"er, v. i.

1. To think seriously; to make examination; to reflect; to
deliberate.
We will consider of your suit. Shak.
'T were to consider too curiously, to consider so. Shak.
She wished she had taken a moment to consider, before rushing down
stairs. W. Black

2. To hesitate. [Poetic & R.] Dryden.

CONSIDERABLE
Con*sid"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. considérable.]

1. Worthy of consideration, borne in mind, or attended to.
It is considerable, that some urns have had inscriptions on them
expressing that the lamps were burning. Bp. Wilkins.
Eternity is infinitely the most considerable duration. Tillotson.

2. Of some distinction; noteworthy; influential; respectable; -- said
of persons.
You are, indeed, a very considerable man. Junius.

3. Of importance or value.
In painting, not every action, nor every person, is considerable
enough to enter into the cloth. Dryden.
A considerable sum of money. Prescott.

CONSIDERABLENESS
Con*sid"er*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Worthiness of consideration; dignity; value; size; amount.

CONSIDERABLY
Con*sid"er*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner or to a degree not trifling or unimportant;
greatly; much.
The breeds . . . differ considerably from each other. Darwin.

CONSIDERANCE
Con*sid"er*ance, n. Etym: [L. considerantia.]

Defn: Act of considering; consideration. [Obs.] Shak.

CONSIDERATE
Con*sid"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. consideratus, p.p.]

1. Given to consideration or to sober reflection; regardful of
consequences or circumstances; circumspect; careful; esp. careful of
the rights, claims, and feelings of other.
Of dauntless courage and considerate pride. Milton.
considerate, and careful of his people. Dryden.
The wisest and most considerate men in the world. Sharp.

2. Having respect to; regardful. [R.]
They may be . . . more considerate of praise. Dr. H. More.

Syn.
 -- Thoughtful; reflective; careful; discreet; prudent; deliberate;
serious. See Thoughtful.
 -- Con*sid"er*ate*ly, adv.
 -- Con*sid"er*ate*ness, n.

CONSIDERATION
Con*sid`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. consideratio: cf. F. consid.]

1. The act or process of considering; continuous careful thought;
examination; contemplation; deliberation; attention.
Let us think with consideration. Sir P. Sidney.
Consideration, like an angel, came. Shak.

2. Attentive respect; appreciative regard; -- used especially in
diplomatic or stately correspondence.
The undersigned has the honor to repeat to Mr. Hulseman the assurance
of his high consideration. D. Webster.
The consideration with which he was treated. Whewell.

3. Thoughtful or sympathetic regard or notice.
Consideration for the poor is a doctrine of the church. Newman.

4. Claim to notice or regard; some degree of importance or
consequence.
Lucan is the only author of consideration among the Latin poets who
was not explained for . . . the Dauphin. Addison.

5. The result of delibration, or of attention and examonation;
matured opinion; a reflection; as, considerations on the choice of a
profession.

6. That which is, or should be, taken into account as a ground of
opinion or action; motive; reason.
He was obliged, antecedent to all other considerations, to search an
asylum. Dryden.
Some considerations which are necessary to the forming of a correct
judgment. Macaulay.

7. (Law)

Defn: The cause which moves a contracting party to enter into an
agreement; the material cause of a contract; the price of a
stripulation; compensation; equivalent. Bouvier.

Note: Consideration is what is done, or promised to be done, in
exchange for a promise, and "as a mere advantage to the promisor
without detriment to the promisee would not avail, the proper test is
detriment to the promisee." Wharton.

CONSIDERATIVE
Con*sid"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Considerate; careful; thoughtful. [Archaic]
I love to be considerative. B. Jonson.

CONSIDERATOR
Con*sid"er*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who considers. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CONSIDERER
Con*sid"er*er, n.

Defn: One who considers; a man of reflection; a thinker. Milton.

CONSIDERINGLY
Con*sid"er*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With consideration or deliberation.

CONSIGN
Con*sign", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Consigned 3; p.pr. & vb.n. Consigning.]
Etym: [F. consigner, L. consignare, -signatu,, to seal or sign; con-
+ signare, fr. signum mark. See Sign.]

1. To give, transfer, or deliver, in a formal manner, as if by
signing over into the possession of another, or into a different
state, with the sense of fixedness in that state, or permanence of
possession; as, to consign the body to the grave.
At the day of general account, good men are to be consigned over to
another state. Atterbury.

2. To give in charge; to commit; to intrust.
Atrides, parting for the Trojan war, Consigned the youthful consort
to his care. Pope.
The four evangelists consigned to writing that history. Addison.

3. (Com.)

Defn: To send or address (by bill of lading or otherwise) to an agent
or correspondent in another place, to be cared for or sold, or for
the use of such correspondent; as, to cosign a cargo or a ship; to
set apart.

4. To assign; to devote; to set apart.
The French commander consigned it to the use for which it was
intended by the donor. Dryden.

5. To stamp or impress; to affect. [Obs.]
Consign my spirit with great fear. Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To commit; deliver; intrust; resign. See Commit.

CONSIGN
Con*sign", v. i.

1. To submit; to surrender or yield one's self. [Obs.]
All lovers young, all lovers must Consign to thee, and come to dust.
Shak.

2. To yield consent; to agree; to acquiesce. [Obs.]
Augment or alter . . . And we'll consign thereto. Shak.

CONSIGNATARY
Con*sig"na*ta*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. Consignitary.]

Defn: A consignee. [Obs.] Jenkins.

CONSIGNATION
Con`sig*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. consignatio written proof, document:
cf. F. consignation comsignation.]

1. The act of consigning; the act of delivering or committing to
another person, place, or state. [Obs.]
So is despair a certain consignation to eternal ruin. Jer. Taylor.

2. The act of ratifying or establishing, as if signing; confirmation;
ratuficator.
A direct consignation of pardon. Jer. Taylor.

3. A stamp; an indication; a sign. [Obs.]
The most certain consignations of an excellent virtue. Jer. Taylor.

CONSIGNATORY
Con*sig"na*to*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. Consignitary.]

Defn: One of several that jointly sign a written instrument, as a
treaty. Fallows.

CONSIGNATURE
Con*sig"na*ture; 135), n.

Defn: Joint signature. [R.] Colgrave.

CONSIGNE
Con"signe, n. Etym: [F.] (Mil.)
(a) A countersign; a watchword.
(b) One who is orders to keep within certain limits.

CONSIGNEE
Con`sign*ee", n. Etym: [F. consign, p.p. of consigner.]

Defn: The person to whom goods or other things are consigned; a
factor; -- correlative to consignor.
Consigner and consignee are used by merchants to express generally
the shipper of merchandise, and the person to whom it is addressed,
by bill of lading or otherwise. De Colange.

CONSIGNER
Con*sign"er, n.

Defn: One who consigns. See Consignor.

CONSIGNIFICANT
Con`sig*nif"i*cant, a.

Defn: Having joint or equal signification; synonymous. [R.] Spelman.

CONSIGNIFICATION
Con*sig`ni*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Joint signification. [R.]

CONSIGNIFICATIVE
Con`sig*nif"i*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Consignificant; jointly significate. [R.]

CONSIGNIFY
Con*sig"ni*fy, v. t. Etym: [Pref. con- + sognify.]

Defn: To signify or denote in combination with something else.
The cipher . . . only serves to connote and consignify, and to change
the value or the figures. Horne Tooke.

CONSIGNMENT
Con*sign"ment, n.

1. The act of consigning; consignation.

2. (Com.)

Defn: The act of consigning or sending property to an agent or
correspondent in another place, as for care, sale, etc.

3. (Com.)

Defn: That which is consigned; the goods or commodities sent or
addressed to a consignee at one time or by one conveyance.
To increase your consignments of this valuable branch of national
commerce. Burke.

4. The writing by which anything is consigned.

CONSIGNOR
Con*sign"or ( or , n.

Defn: One who consigns something to another; -- opposed to consignee.
[Written also consigner.]

CONSILIENCE
Con*sil"i*ence, n. Etym: [con- + salire to leap.]

Defn: Act of concurring; coincidence; concurrence.
The consilience of inductions takes place when one class of facts
coincides with an induction obtained from another different class.
Whewell.

CONSIMILITUDE; CONSIMILITY
Con`si*mil"i*tude, Con`si*mil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. consimilitude.
See Similitude.]

Defn: Common resemblance. [Obs.] Aubrey.

CONSIST
Con*sist", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Consisted; p.pr. & vb.n. Consisting.]
Etym: [L. consistere to stand still or firm; con- + sistere to stand,
cause to stand, stare to stand: cf. F. consister. See Stand.]

1. To stand firm; to be in a fixed or permanent state, as a body
composed of parts in union or connection; to hold together; to be; to
exist; to subsist; to be supported and maintained.
He is before all things, and by him all things consist. Col. i. 17.

2. To be composed or made up; -- followed by of.
The land would consist of plains and valleys. T. Burnet.

3. To have as its substance or character, or as its foundation; to
be; -- followed by in.
If their purgation did consist in words. Shak.
A man's life consisteth not in the abudance of the things which he
possesseth. Luke xii. 15.

4. To be cosistent or harmonious; to be in accordance; -- formerly
used absolutely, now followed by with.
This was a consisting story. Bp. Burnet.
Health consists with temperance alone. Pope.
For orders and degrees Jar not with liberty, but well consist.
Milton.

5. To insist; -- followed by on. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- To Consist, Consist of, Consist in. The verb consist is employed
chiefly for two purposes, which are marked and distinguished by the
prepositions used. When we wish to indicate the parts which unite to
compose a thing, we use of; as when we say, "Macaulay's Miscellanies
consist chiefly of articles which were first published in the
Edinburgh Review." When we wish to indicate the true nature of a
thing, or that on which it depends, we use in; as, "There are some
artists whose skill consists in a certain manner which they have
affected." "Our safety consists in a strict adherence to duty."

CONSISTENCE; CONSISTENCY
Con*sist"ence, Con*sist"en*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. consistance.]

1. The condition of standing or adhering together, or being fixed in
union, as the parts of a body; existence; firmness; coherence;
solidity.
Water, being divided, maketh many circles, till it restore itself to
the natural consistence. Bacon.
We are as water, weak, and of no consistence. Jer. Taylor.
The same form, substance, and consistency. T. Burned.

2. A degree of firmness, density, or spissitude.
Let the expressed juices be boiled into the consistence of a sirup.
Arbuthnot.

3. That which stands together as a united whole; a combination.
The church of God, as meaning whole consistence of orders and
members. Milton.

4. Firmness of constitution or character; substantiality; durability;
persistency.
His friendship is of a noble make and a lasting consistency. South.

5. Agreement or harmony of all parts of a complex thing among
themselves, or of the same thing with itself at different times; the
harmony of conduct with profession; congruity; correspondence; as,
the consistency of laws, regulations, or judicial decisions;
consistency of opinions; consistency of conduct or of character.
That consistency of behavior whereby he inflexibly pursues those
measures which appear the most just. Addison.
Consistency, thou art a jewel. Popular Saying.

CONSISTENT
Con*sist"ent, a. Etym: [L. consistens, p.pr.: cf. F. consistant.]

1. Possessing firmness or fixedness; firm; hard; solid.
The humoral and consistent parts of the body. Harvey.

2. Having agreement with itself or with something else; having
harmony among its parts; possesing unity; accordant; harmonious;
congruous; compatible; uniform; not contradictory.
Show me one that has it in his power To act consistent with himself
an hour. Pope.
With reference to such a lord, to serve and to be free are terms not
consistent only, but equivalent. South.

3. Living or acting in conformity with one's belief or professions.
It was utterly to be at once a consistent Quaker and a conspirator.
Macaulay.

CONSISTENTLY
Con*sist"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a consistent manner.

CONSISTORIAL
Con`sis*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. consistorial.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a consistory. "Consistorial laws." Hooker.
"Consistorial courts." Bp. Hoadley.

CONSISTORIAN
Con`sis*to"rian, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a Presbyterian consistory; -- a contemptuous term
of 17th century controversy.
You fall next on the consistorian schismatics; for so you call
Presbyterians. Milton.

CONSISTORY
Con*sis"to*ry ( or ; 277) n.; pl. Consistories. Etym: [L.
consistorium a place of assembly, the place where the emperor's
council met, fr. consistere: cf. F. consistoire, It. consistorio. See
Consist.]

1. Primarily, a place of standing or staying together; hence, any
solemn assembly or council.
To council summons all his mighty peers, Within thick clouds and dark
tenfold involved, A gloomy consistory. Milton.

2. (Eng. Ch.)

Defn: The spiritual court of a diocesan bishop held before his
chancellor or commissioner in his cathedral church or elsewhere.
Hook.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: An assembly of prelates; a session of the college of cardinals
at Rome.
Pius was then hearing of causes in consistory. Bacon.

4. A church tribunal or governing body.

Note: In some churches, as the Dutch Reformed in America, a
consistory is composed of the minister and elders of an individual
church, corresponding to a Presbyterian church session, and in
others, as the Reformed church in France, it is composed of ministers
and elders, corresponding to a presbytery. In some Lutheran countries
it is a body of clerical and lay officers appointed by the sovereign
to superintend ecclesiastical affairs.

5. A civil court of justice. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CONSISTORY
Con*sis"to*ry, a.

Defn: Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a consistory. "To hold
consistory session." Strype.

CONSOCIATE
Con*so"ci*ate, n. Etym: [L. nsociatus, p.p. of consociare to
associate, unite; con- + sociare to join, unite. See Social.]

Defn: An associate; an accomplice. [Archaic] "Wicked consociates."
Bp. Hall.

CONSOCIATE
Con*so"ci*ate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Consociated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Consociating.]

1. To bring into alliance, confederacy, or relationship; to bring
together; to join; to unite. [R.]
Join pole to pole, consociate severed worlds. Mallet.

2. To unite in an ecclesiastical consociation. [U.S.]

CONSOCIATE
Con*so"ci*ate, v. i.

1. To be allied, confederated, or associated; to coalescence. [R.]
Bentley.

2. To form an ecclesiastical consociation. [U.S.]

CONSOCIATION
Con*so`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. consociatio.]

1. Intimate union; fellowship; alliance; companionship;
confederation; association; intimacy.
A friendly consociation with your kindred elements. Warburton.

2. A voluntary and permanent council or union of neighboring
Congregational churches, for mutual advice and co

Note: In Connecticut some of the Congregational churhes are
associated in consociations and the others in conferences.

CONSOCIATIONAL
Con*so`ci*a"tion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a consociation. [U.S.]

CONSOL
Con*sol", n.

Defn: A consolidated annuity (see Consols); -- chiefly in combination
or attributively.

CONSOLABLE
Con*sol"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. consolabilis: cf. F. consolable.]

Defn: Capable of receiving consolation.

CONSOLATE
Con"so*late, v. t. Etym: [L. consolatus, p.p. See Console, v. t.]

Defn: To console; to comfort. [Obs.] Shak.

CONSOLATION
Con`so*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. consolatio: cf. F. consolation.]

Defn: The act of consoling; the state of being consoled; allevation
of misery or distress of mind; refreshment of spirit; comfort; that
which consoles or comforts the spirit.
Against such cruelties With inward consolations recompensed. Milton.
Are the consolations of God small with thee Job xv. 11.

Syn.
 -- Comfort; solace; allevation. See Comfort.

CONSOLATION GAME; CONSOLATION MATCH; CONSOLATION POT; CONSOLATION
RACE
Con`so*la"tion game, match, pot, race, etc.

Defn: A game, match, etc., open only to losers in early stages of
contests.

CONSOLATO DEL MARE
Con`so*la"to del ma"re. Etym: [It., the consulate of the sea.]

Defn: A collection of maritime laws of disputed origin, supposed to
have been first published at Barcelona early in the 14th century. It
has formed the basis of most of the subsequent collections of
maritime laws. Kent. Bouvier.

CONSOLATOR
Con"so*la`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who consoles or comforts. Johnson.

CONSOLATORY
Con*sol"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. consolatorius.]

Defn: Of a consoling or comforting nature.
The punishment of tyrants is a noble and awful act of justice; and it
has with truth been said to be consolatory to the human mind. Burke.

CONSOLATORY
Con*sol"a*to*ry, n.

Defn: That which consoles; a speech or writing intended for
consolation. [R.] Milton.

CONSOLE
Con*sole", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Consoled; p.pr. & vb.n. Consoling.]
Etym: [L. consolari,. p.p. consolatus; con- + solari to console,
comfort: cf. F. consoler. See Solace.]

Defn: To cheer in distress or depression; to alleviate the grief and
raise the spirits of; to relieve; to comfort; to soothe.
And empty heads console with empty sound. Pope.
I am much consoled by the reflection that the religion of Christ has
been attacked in vain by all the wits and philosophers, and its
triumph has been complete. P. Henry.

Syn.
 -- To comfort; solace; soothe; cheer; sustain; encourage; support.
See Comfort.

CONSOLE
Con"sole, n. Etym: [F.] (Arch.)
(a) A bracket whose projection is not more than half its height.
(b) Any small bracket; also, a console table. Console table, a table
whose top is supported by two or more consoles instead of legs.

CONSOLER
Con*sol"er, n.

Defn: One who gives consolation.

CONSOLIDANT
Con*sol"i*dant, a. Etym: [L. consolidans, p.pr. of consolidare: cf.
F. consolidant.]

Defn: Serving to unite or consolidate; having the quality of
consolidating or making firm.

CONSOLIDATE
Con*sol"i*date, a. Etym: [L. consolidatus, p.pr. of consolidare to
make firm; con- + solidare to make firm; solidus solid. See Solid,
and cf. Consound.]

Defn: Formed into a solid mass; made firm; consolidated. [R.]
A gentleman [should learn to ride] while he is tender and the brawns
and sinews of his thighs not fully consolidate. Elyot.

CONSOLIDATE
Con*sol"i*date, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Consolidated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Consolidating.]

1. To make solid; to unite or press together into a compact mass; to
harden or make dense and firm.
He fixed and consolidated the earth. T. Burnet.

2. To unite, as various particulars, into one mass or body; to bring
together in close union; to combine; as, to consolidate the armies of
the republic.
Consolidating numbers into unity. Wordsworth.

3. (Surg.)

Defn: To unite by means of applications, as the parts of a broken
bone, or the lips of a wound. [R.]

Syn.
 -- To unite; combine; harden; compact; condense; compress.

CONSOLIDATE
Con*sol"i*date, v. i.

Defn: To grow firm and hard; to unite and become solid; as, moist
clay consolidates by drying.
In hurts and ulcers of the head, dryness maketh them more apt to
consolidate. Bacon.

CONSOLIDATED
Con*sol"i*da`ted, p.p. & a.

1. Made solid, hard, or compact; united; joined; solidified.
The Aggregate Fund . . . consisted of a great variety of taxes and
surpluses of taxes and duties which were [in 1715] consolidated.
Rees.
A mass of partially consolidated mud. Tyndall.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a small surface in proportion to bulk, as in the cactus.
Consolidated plants are evidently adapted and designed for very dry
regions; in such only they are found. Gray.
The Consolidated Fund, a British fund formed by consolidating (in
1787) three public funds (the Aggregate Fund, the General Fund, and
the South Sea Fund). In 1816, the larger part of the revenues of
Great Britian and Ireland was assigned to what has been known as the
Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom, out of which are paid the
interest of the national debt, the salaries of the civil list, etc.

CONSOLIDATION
Con*sol`i*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. consolidatio a confirming: cf. F.
consolidation.]

1. The act or process of consolidating, making firm, or uniting; the
state of being consolidated; solidification; combination.
The consolidation of the marble and of the stone did not fall out at
random. Woodward.
The consolidation of the great European monarchies. Hallam.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: To organic cohesion of different circled in a flower; adnation.

3. (Law)

Defn: The combination of several actions into one.

CONSOLIDATIVE
Con*sol"i*da*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. consolidatif.]

Defn: Tending or having power to consolidate; healing.

CONSOLING
Con*sol"ing, a.

Defn: Adapted to console or comfort; cheering; as, this is consoling
news.

CONSOLS
Con"sols ( or , n. pl. Etym: [A contraction of consolidated
(annuities).]

Defn: The leading British funded government security.

Note: A considerable part of the public debt of Great Britian, which
had been contracted in the form of annuities yielding various rates
of interest, was, in 1757, consolidated into one fund at 3 per cent
interest, the account of which is kept at the Bank of England. This
debt has been diminished and increased at different times, and now
constitutes somewhat more than half of the entire national debt. The
stocks are transferable, and Their value in the market constantly
fluctuates; the price at any time being regarded as a gauge of the
national prosperity and public confidence.

CONSOMME
Con`som`me, n. Etym: [F., lit. p.p. of consommer to finish.]
(Cookery)

Defn: A clear soup or bouillion boiled down so as to be very rich.

CONSONANCE; CONSONANCY
Con"so*nance, Con"so*nan*cy, n. Etym: [L. consonantia: cf. F.
consonnance.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: Accord or agreement of sounds produced simultaneously, as a
note with its third, fifth, and eighth.

2. Agreement or congruity; harmony; accord; consistency;
suitableness.
The perfect consonancy of our persecuted church to the doctrines of
Scripture and antiquity. Hammond.
The optic nerve responds to the waves with which it is in consonance.
Tyndall.

3. Friendship; concord. [Obs.]
By the consonancy of our youth. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Agreement; accord; consistency; unison; harmony; congruity;
suitableness; agreeableness.

CONSONANT
Con"so*nant, a. Etym: [L. consonans, -antis; p.pr. of consonare to
sound at the same time, agree; con- + sonare to sound: cf. F.
consonnant. See Sound to make a noise.]

1. Having agreement; congruous; consistent; according; -- usually
followed by with or to.
Each one pretends that his opinion . . . is consonant to the words
there used. Bp. Beveridge.
That where much is given shall be much required is a thing consonant
with natural equity. Dr. H. More.

2. Having like sounds.
Consonant words and syllables. Howell.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: harmonizing together; accordant; as, consonant tones, consonant
chords.

4. Of or pertaining to consonants; made up of, or containing many,
consonants.
No Russian whose dissonant consonant name Almost shatters to
fragments the trumpet of fame. T. Moore.

CONSONANT
Con"so*nant, n. Etym: [L. consonans, -antis.]

Defn: An articulate sound which in utterance is usually combined and
sounded with an open sound called a vowel; a member of the spoken
alphabet other than a vowel; also, a letter or character representing
such a sound.

Note: Consonants are divided into various classes, as mutes,
spirants, sibilants, nasals, semivowels, etc. All of them are sounds
uttered through a closer position of the organs than that of a vowel
proper, although the most open of them, as the semivowels and nasals,
are capable of being used as if vowels, and forming syllables with
other closer consonants, as in the English feeble (taken (

Note: "A consonant is the result of audible friction, squeezing, or
stopping of the breath in some part of the mouth (or occasionally of
the throath.) The main distinction between vowels and consonants is,
that while in the former the mouth configuration merely modifies the
vocalized breath, which is therefore an essential element of the
vowels, in consonants the narrowing or stopping of the oral passage
is the foundation of the sound, and the state of the glottis is
something secondary." H. Sweet.

CONSONANTAL
Con`so*nan"tal

Defn: ,

CONSONANTIZE
Con"so*nant*ize, v. t.

Defn: To change into, or use as, a consonant. "The vowel is
consonantized, that is, made closer in position." Peile.

CONSONANTLY
Con"so*nant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a consonant, consistent, or congruous manner; agreeably.

CONSONANTNESS
Con"so*nant*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being consonant, agreeable, or
consistent.

CONSONOUS
Con"so*nous, a. Etym: [L. consonus. See Consonant.]

Defn: Agreeing in sound; symphonious.

CONSOPIATION
Con*so`pi*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of sleeping, or of lulling, to sleep. [Obs.] Pope.

CONSOPITE
Con"so*pite, a. Etym: [L. consopitus, p.p. of consopire.]

Defn: Lulled to sleep. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

CONSOPITE
Con"so*pite, v. t.

Defn: To lull to sleep; to quiet; to compose. [Obs.]
The operation of the masculine faculties of the soul were, for a
while, well slacked and consopited. Dr. H. More.

CONSORT
Con"sort, n. Etym: [L. consore, -sortis; con- + sors lot, fate,
share. See Sort.]

1. One who shares the lot of another; a companion; a partner;
especially, a wife or husband. Milton.
He single chose to live, and shunned to wed, Well pleased to want a
consort of his bed. Dryden.
The consort of the queen has passed from this troubled sphere.
Thakeray.
The snow-white gander, invariably accompanied by his darker consort.
Darwin.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A ship keeping company with another.

3. Concurrence; conjunction; combination; association; union. "By
Heaven's consort." Fuller. "Working in consort." Hare.
Take it singly, and is carries an air of levity; but, in consort with
the rest, has a meaning quite different. Atterbury.

4. Etym: [LL. consortium.]

Defn: An assembly or association of persons; a company; a group; a
combination. [Obs.]
In one consort there sat Cruel revenge and rancorious despite,
Disloyal treason, and heart-burning hate. Spenser.
Lord, place me in thy consort. Herbert.

5. Etym: [Perh. confused with concert.]

Defn: Harmony of sounds; concert, as of musical instruments. [Obs.]
Milton.
To make a sad consort`; Come, let us join our mournful song with
theirs. Spenser.

Prince consort, the husband of a queen regnant.
 -- Queen consort, the wife of a king, as distinguished from a queen
regnant, who rules alone, and a queen dowager, the window of a king.

CONSORT
Con*sort", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Consorted; p.pr. & vb.n. Consorting.]

Defn: To unite or to keep company; to associate; -- used with with.
Which of the Grecian chiefs consorts with thee Dryden.

CONSORT
Con*sort", v. t.

1. To unite or join, as in affection, harmony, company, marriage,
etc.; to associate.
He with his consorted Eve. Milton.
For all that pleasing is to living ears Was there consorted in one
harmony. Spenser.
He begins to consort himself with men. Locke.

2. To attend; to accompany. [Obs.]
Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here, Shalt with him
hence. Shak.

CONSORTABLE
Con*sort"a*ble, a.

Defn: Suitable for association or companionship. [Obs.] Sir H.
Wotton.

CONSORTION
Con*sor"tion, n. Etym: [L. consortio.]

Defn: Fellowship; association; companionship. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CONSORTSHIP
Con"sort*ship, n.

Defn: The condition of a consort; fellowship; partnership. Hammond.

CONSOUND
Con"sound, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. F. consoude, fr L. consolida
comfrey (so called because supposed to have healing power); con- +
solidus solid, consolidare to make solid. Cf. Comfrey, Consolidate.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A name applied loosely to several plants of different genera,
esp. the comfrey.

CONSPECIFIC
Con`spe*cif"ic, a.

Defn: Of the same species.

CONSPECTUITY
Con`spec*tu"i*ty, n.; pl. Conspectuities.

Defn: The faculty of seeing; sight; eye.

Note: [A word of Menenius's making. Coriolanus ii. 1] Shak.

CONSPECTUS
Con*spec"tus, n.

Defn: A general sketch or outline of a subject; a synopsis; an
epitome.

CONSPERSION
Con*sper"sion, n. Etym: [L. conspersio, fr. conspergere to sprinkle.]

Defn: The act of sprinkling. [Obs.]
The conspersion washing the doorposts. Jer. Taylor.

CONSPICUITY
Con`spi*cu"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being clear or bright; brightness;
conspicuosness. [R.] Chapman.

CONSPICUOUS
Con*spic"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. conspicuus, fr. conspicere to get sight
of, to perceive; con- + spicere, specere, to look. See Spy]

1. Open to the view; obvious to the eye; easy to be seen; plainly
visible; manifest; attracting the eye.
It was a rock Of alabaster, piled up to the clouds, Conspicious far.
Milton.
Conspicious by her veil and hood, Signing the cross, the abbess
stood. Sir W. Scott.

2. Obvious to the mental eye; easily recognized; clearly defined;
notable; prominent; eminent; distinguished; as, a conspicuous
exellence, or fault.
A man who holds a conspicuous place in the political, eccesiastical,
and literary history of England. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Distinguished; eminent; famous; illustrious; prominent;
celebrated. See Distinguished.
 -- Con*spic"u*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Con*spic"u*ous*ness, n.

CONSPIRACY
Con*spir"a*cy, n.; pl. Conspiracies. Etym: [See Conspiration.]

1. A combination of men for an evil purpose; as agreement, between
two or more persons, to commit a crime in concert, as treason; a
plot.
When shapen was all his conspiracy From point to point. Chaucer.
They made a conspiracy against [Amaziah]. 2 Kings xiv. 19.
I had forgot that foul conspiracy
Of the beast Caliban and his confederates. Shak.

2. A concurence or general tendency, as of circumstances, to one
event, as if by agreement.
A conspiracy in all heavenly and earthly things. Sir P. Sidney.

3. (Law)

Defn: An agreement, manifesting itself in words or deeds, by which
two or more persons confederate to do an unlawful act, or to use
unlawful to do an act which is lawful; confederacy.

Syn.
 -- Combination; plot; cabal.

CONSPIRANT
Con*spir"ant, a. Etym: [L. conspirans, p.pr. of conspirare: cf. F.
conspirant.]

Defn: Engaging in a plot to commit a crime; conspiring. [Obs.] Shak.

CONSPIRATION
Con`spi*ra"tion, n. Etym: [F. conspiration, L. conspiratio.]

Defn: Agreement or concurrence for some end or purpose; conspiracy.
[R.]
As soon as it was day, certain Jews made a conspiration. Udall.
In our natural body every part has a nacassary sympathy with every
other, and all together form, by their harmonious onspiration, a
healthy whole. Sir W. Hamilton.

CONSPIRATOR
Con*spir"a*tor, n.

Defn: One who engages in a conspiracy; a plotter. 2 Sam. xv. 31.

CONSPIRE
Con*spire", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Conspired; p.pr. & vb.n. Conspiring.]
Etym: [F. conspirer, L. onspirare to blow together, harmonize, agree,
plot; con- + spirare to breathe, blow. See Spirit.]

1. To make an agreement, esp. a secret agreement, to do some act, as
to commit treason or a crime, or to do some unlawful deed; to plot
together.
They conspired against [Joseph] to slay him. Gen. xxxvii. 18.
You have conspired against our royal person, Joined with an enemy
proclaimed. Shak.

2. To concur to one end; to agree.
The press, the pulpit, and the stage Conspire to censure and expose
our age. Roscommon.

Syn.
 -- To unite; concur; complot; confederate; league.

CONSPIRE
Con*spire", v. t.

Defn: To plot; to plan; to combine for.
Angry clouds conspire your overthrow. Bp. Hall.

CONSPIRER
Con*spir"er, n.

Defn: One who conspires; a conspirator.

CONSPIRINGLY
Con*spir"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a conspirator; by conspiracy. Milton.

CONSPISSATION
Con`spis*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. conspissatio, fr. onspissare to make
thick.]

Defn: A making thick or viscous; thickness; inspissation. [R.] Dr. H.
More.

CONSPURCATE
Con*spur"cate, v. t. Etym: [L. conspurcatus, p.p. of conspurcare.]

Defn: To pollute; to defile. [Obs.] Cockeram.

CONSPURCATION
Con`spur*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. conspurcare, -spuratum, to defile.]

Defn: This act of defiling; defilement; pollution. Bp. Hall.

CONSTABLE
Con"sta*ble, n. Etym: [OE. conestable, constable, a constable (in
sense 1), OF. conestable, F. conn, LL. conestabulus, constabularius,
comes stabuli, orig., count of the stable, master of the horse,
equerry; comes ount (L. ompanion) + L. stabulum stable. See Count a
nobleman, and Stable.]

1. A high officer in the monarhical establishments of the Middle
Ages.

Note: The constable of France was the first officer of the crown, and
had the chief ommand of the army. It was also his duty to regulate
all matters of chivalry. The office was suppressed in 1627. The
constable, or lord high constable, of England, was one of the highest
officers of the crown, commander in chief of the forces, and keeper
of the peace of the nation. He also judicial cognizance of many
important matters. The office was as early as the Conquest, but has
been disused (except on great and solemn occasions), since the
attainder of Stafford, duke of Buckingham, in the reign of Henry
VIII.

2. (Law)

Defn: An officer of the peace having power as a conservator of the
public peace, and bound to exeute the warrants of judicial offiers.
Bouvier.

Note: In England, at the present time, the constable is a conservator
of the peace within his district, and is also charged by various
statutes with other duties, such as serving summons, precepts,
warrants, etc. In the United States, constables are town or its
officers of the peace, with powers similar to those of the constables
of England. In addition to their duties as conservators of the peace,
they are invested with others by statute, such as to execute civil as
well as criminal process in certain cases, to attend courts, keep
juries, etc. In some cities, there are officers called high
constables, who act as shiefs of the constabulary or police force. In
other cities the title of constable, as well as the office, is merged
in that of the polie officer. High constable, a constable having
certain duties and powers within a hundred. [Eng.] -- Petty
constable, a conservator of the peace within a parish or tithing; a
tithingman. [Eng.] -- Special constable, a person appointed to act as
constable of special occasions.
 -- To overrun, or outrun, the constable, the spend more than one's
income; to get into debt. [Colloq.] Smollett.

CONSTABLERY
Con"sta*bler*y ( or , n. Etym: [OF. conestablerie. Cf. Constabulary.]

1. The constabulary. [Obs.]

2. The distrit or jurisdiction of a constable. [Obs.]

CONSTABLESHIP
Con"sta*bleship, n.

Defn: The office or functions of a constable.

CONSTABLESS
Con"sta*bless, n.

Defn: The wife of a constable. [Obs.]

CONSTABLEWICK
Con"sta*ble*wick`, n. Etym: [Constable + wick a village]

Defn: The district to which a constable's power is limited. [Obs.]
Sir M. Hale.

CONSTABULARY
Con*stab"u*la*ry, a. Etym: [LL. constabularius an equerry. See
Constable.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to constables; consisting of constables.

CONSTABULARY
Con*stab"u*la*ry, n.

Defn: The collective body of constables in any town, district, or
country.

CONSTABULATORY
Con*stab"u*la*to*ry, n.

Defn: A constabulary. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.

CONSTANCY
Con"stan*cy, n. Etym: [L. constantia: cf. F. constance. See
Constant.]

1. The state or quality of being constant or steadfast; freedom from
hange; stability; fixedness; immutabilitu; asm the constancy of God
in his nature and attributes.

2. Fixedness or firmness of mind; persevering resolution; especially,
firmness of mind under sufferings, steadiness in attashments, or
perseverance in enterprise; stability; fidelity.
A fellow of plain unoined constancy. Shak.
Constancy and contempt of danger. Prescott.

Syn.
 -- Fixedness; stability; firmness; steadiness; permanence;
steadfastness; resolution. See Firmness.

CONSTANT
Con"stant, a. Etym: [L. onstans, -antis, p.pr. of constare to stand
firm, to be consistent; con- + stare to stand: cf.F. constant. See
Stand and f. Cost, v. t.]

1. Firm; solid; fixed; immovable; -- opposed to fluid. [Obs.]
If . . . you mix them, you may turn these two fluid liquors into a
constant body. Boyle.

2. Not liable, or given, to change; permanent; regular; continuous;
continually recurring; steadfast; faithful; not fickle.
Both loving one fair maid, they yet remained constant friends. Sir P.
Sidney.
I am constant to my purposes. Shak.
His gifts, his constant ourtship, nothing gained. Dryden.
Onward the constant current sweeps. Longfellow.

3. (Math. & Physics)

Defn: Remaining unchanged or invariable, as a quantity, forc, law,
etc.

4. Consistent; logical. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- Fixed; steadfast; unchanging; permanent; unalterable; immutable;
perpetual; continual; resolute; firm; unshaken; determined.
 -- Constant, Continual, Perpetual. These words are sometimes used in
an absolute and sometimes in a qualified sense. Constant denotes, in
its absolute sense, unchangeably fixed; as, a constant mind or
purpose. In its qualified sense, it marks something as a "standing"
fact or occurence; as, liable to constant interruptions; constantly
called for. Continual, in its absolute sense, coincides with
continuous. See Continuous. In its qualified sense, it describes, a
thing as occuring in steady and rapid succession; as, a round of
continual calls; continually changing. Perpetual denotes, in its
absolute sense, what literally never ceases or comes to an end; as,
perpetual motion. In its qualified sense, it is used hyperbolically,
and denotes that which rarely ceases; as, perpetual disturbance;
perpetual noise; perpetual intermeddling.

CONSTANT
Con"stant, n.

1. That which is not subject to change; that which is invariable.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A quantity that does not change its value; -- used in
countradistinction variable. Absolute costant (Math.), one whose
value is absolutely the same under all cirumstanes, as the number 10,
or any numeral.
 -- Arbitrary constant, an undetermined constant in a differential
equation having the same value during all changes in the values of
the variables.

CONSTANTIA
Con*stan"ti*a ( or , n.

Defn: A superior wine, white and red, from Constantia, in Cape
Colony.

CONSTANTLY
Con"stant*ly, adv.

Defn: With constancy; steadily; continually; perseveringly; without
cessation; uniformly.
But she constantly affirmed that it was even so. Acts. xii. 15.

CONSTAT
Con"stat, n. Etym: [L., it is evident.] (Law)

Defn: A certificate showing what appears upon record touching a
matter in question.

CONSTATE
Con*state", v. t. Etym: [F. constater; L. con- + stare to stand.]

Defn: To ascertain; to verify; to establish; to prove. F. P. Cobbe.

CONSTELLATE
Con"stel*late ( or , v. i. Etym: [Pref. con- + L. stellatus, p.p. of
stellare to cover with stars, stella star. See Stellate.]

Defn: To join luster; to shine with united radiance, or one general
light. [R.]
The several things which engage our affections . . . shine forth and
constellate in God. Boule.

CONSTELLATE
Con"stel*late, v. t.

1. To unite in one luster or radiane, as stars. [R.]
Whe know how to constellate these lights. Boyle.

2. To set or adorn with stars or constellations; as, constellated
heavens. J. Barlow.

CONSTELLATION
Con`stel*la"tion, n. Etym: [F. constellation, L. constellatio.]

1. A cluster or group of fixed stars, or dvision of the heavens,
designated in most cases by the name of some animal, or of some
mythologial personage, within whose imaginary outline, as traced upon
the heavens, the group is included.
The constellations seem to have been almost purposely named and
delineated to cause as much confusion and inconvenience as possible.
Sir J. Herschel.

Note: In each of the constellations now recognized by astronomers
(about 90 in number) the brightest stars, both named and unnamed are
designated nearly in the order of brilliancy by the letters of the
Greek alphabet; as,

2. An assemblage of splendors or excellences.
The constellations of genius had already begun to show itself . . .
which was to shed a glory over the meridian and close of Philip's
reign. Prescott.

3. Fortune; fate; destiny. [Obs.]
It is constellation, which causeth all that a man doeth. Gower.

CONSTERNATION
Con`ster*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. consternatio, fr. consternare to
overome, perplex, an accessory form of consternere to trow down,
prostrate; con + sternere to spread out, throw down: cf. F.
consternation. See Straum.]

Defn: Amazement or horror that confounds the faculties, and
incapacitates for refletion; terror, combined with amaxement; dismay.
The chiefs around, In silence wrapped, in onsternation downed. Attend
the stern reply. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Alarm; fright; amazement; astonishment; surprise; panic;
returbation. See Alarm.

CONSTIPATE
Con"sti*pate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Constipated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Constipating.] Etym: [L. constipatus, p.p. of constipare; con- +
stipare to crowd together. See Costive.]

1. To crowd or cram into a narrow compass; to press together or
condense. [Obs.]
Of cold the property is to condense and constipate. Bacon.

2. To stop (a channel) by filling it, and preventing passage through
it; as, to constipate the capillary vessels.

3. (Med.)

Defn: To render costive; to cause constipation in.

CONSTIPATION
Con`sti*pa"tion, n. Etym: [L. constipatio a crowding together: cf.F.
constipation.]

1. Act of crowding anything into a less compass, or the state of
being crowded or pressed together; condensation. [Obs.]
Fullness of matter, or a pretty close constipation . . . of its
particles. Boyle.

2. A state of the bowels in which the evacuations are infrequent and
difficult, or the intestines become filled with hardened faces;
costiveness.

CONSTITUENCY
Con*stit"u*en*cy, n.; pl. Constituencies (.

Defn: A body of constituents, as the body of citizens or voters in a
representative district.

CONSTITUENT
Con*stit"u*ent, a. Etym: [L. constituens, -entis, p.pr. See
Constitute.]

1. Serving to form, compose, or make up; elemental; component.
Body, soul, and reason are the three parts necessarily constituent of
a man. Dryden.

2. Having the power of electing or appointing.
A question of right arises between the constituent and representative
body. Junius.

CONSTITUENT
Con*stit"u*ent, n.

1. The person or thing which constitutes, determines, or constructs.
Their first composure and origination require a higher and nobler
constituent than chance. Sir M. Hale

2. That which constitutes or composes, as a part, or an essential
part; a component; an element.
We know how to bring these constituents together, and to cause them
to form water. Tyndall.

3. One for whom another acts; especially, one who is represented by
another in a legislative assembly; -- correlative to representative.
The electors in the district of a representative in Congress, or in
the legislature of a State, are termed his constituents. Abbot.
To appeal from the representatives to the constituents. Macaulay.

4. (Law)

Defn: A person who appoints another to act for him as attorney in
fact. Burrill.

CONSTITUTE
Con"sti*tute, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Constituted; p.pr. & vb.n.
Constituting.] Etym: [L. constitutus, p.p. of constiture to
constitute; con- + statuere to place, set, fr. status station, fr.
stare to stand. See Stand.]

1. To cause to stand; to establish; to enact.
Laws appointed and constituted by lawful authority. Jer. Taylor.

2. To make up; to compose; to form.
Truth and reason constitute that intellectual gold that defies
destruction. Johnson.

3. To appoint, depute, or elect to an offie; to make and empower.
Me didst Thou constitute a priest of thine. Wordsworth.
Constituted authorities, the officers of government, collectively, as
of a nation, city, town, etc. Bartlett.

CONSTITUTE
Con"sti*tute, n.

Defn: An established law. [Obs.] T. Preston.

CONSTITUTER
Con"sti*tu`ter, n.

Defn: One who constitutes or appoints.

CONSTITUTION
Con`sti*tu"tion, n. Etym: [F. constitution, L. constitute.]

1. The act or process of constituting; the action of enacting,
establishing, or appointing; enactment; establishment; formation.

2. The state of being; that form of being, or structure and
connection of parts, which constitutes and characterizes a system or
body; natural condition; structure; texture; conformation.
The physical constitution of the sun. Sir J. Herschel.

3. The agregate of all one's inherited physical qualities; the
aggregate of the vital powers of an individual, with refernce to
ability to endure hardship, resist disease, etc.; as, a robust
constitution.
Our constitutions have never been enfeebled by the vices or luxuries
of the oid world. Story.

4. The aggregate of mental qualities; temperament.
He defended himself with . . . less passion than was expected from
his constitution. Clarendon.

5. The fundamental, organic law or principles of government of men,
embodied in written documents, or implied in the institutions and
usages of the country or society; also, a written instrument
embodying such organic law, and laying down fundamental rules and
principles for the conduct of affairs.
Our constitution had begun to exist in times when statesmen were not
much accustomed to frame exact definitions. Macaulay.

Note: In England the constitution is unwritten, and may be modified
from time to time by act of Parliament. In the United States a
constitution cannot ordinarily be modified, exept through such
processes as the constitution itself ordains.

6. An authoritative ordinance, regulation or enactment; especially,
one made by a Roman emperor, or one affecting ecclesiastical doctrine
or disipline; as, the constitutions of Justinian.
The positive constutions of our own churches. Hooker.
A constitution of Valentinian addressed to Olybrius, then prefect of
Rome, for the regulation of the conduct of advocates. George Long.
Apostolic constitutions. See under Apostolic.

CONSTITUTIONAL
Con`sti*tu"tion*al, a. Etym: [f. F. constitutionnel.]

1. Belonging to, or inherent in, the constitution, or in the
structure of body or mind; as, a constitutional infirmity;
constitutional ardor or dullness.

2. In accordance with, or authorized by, the constitution of a state
or a society; as, constitutional reforms.

3. Regulated by, dependent on, or secured by, a constitution; as,
constitutional government; constitutional rights. Hallam.

4. Relating to a constitution, or establishment form of government;
as, a constitutional risis.
The anient constitutional traditions of the state. Macaulay.

5. For the benefit or one's constitution or health; as, a
constitutional walk. [Colloq.] Constitutional law, law that relates
to the constitution, as a permanent system of political and juridical
government, as distinguished from statutory and common law, which
relate to matters subordinate to such constitution.

CONSTITUTIONAL
Con`sti*tu"tion*al, n.

Defn: A walk or other exercise taken for one's health or
constitution. [Colloq.] Thackeray.
The men trudged diurnal constitutionals along the different roads.
Compton Reade.

CONSTITUTIONALISM
Con`sti*tu"tion*al*ism, n.

Defn: The theory, principles, or authority of constitutional
government; attachment or adherene to a constitution or
constitutional government. Carlyle.

CONSTITUTIONALIST
Con`sti*tu"tion*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who advocates a constitutional form of government; a
constitutionalist.

CONSTITUTIONALITY
Con`sti*tu`tion*al"i*ty, n.; pl. -ties. Etym: [f. F.
constitutionalité.]

1. The quality or state of being constitutional, or inherent in the
natural frame.

2. The state of being consistent with the constitution or frame of
government, or of being authorized by its provisions. Burke.
Constitutionalities, bottomless cavilings and questionings about
written laws. Carlyle.

CONSTITUTIONALLY
Con`sti*tu"tion*al*ly, adv.

1. In accordance with the constitution or natural disposition of the
mind or body; naturally; as, he was constitutionally timid.
The English were constitutionally humane. Hallam.

2. In accordance with the constitution or fundamental law; legally;
as, he was not constitutionally appointed.
Nothing would indue them to acknowledge that [such] an assembly . . .
was constitutionally a Parliament. Macaulay.

CONSTITUTIONIST
Con`sti*tu"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who adheres to the constitution of the country.
Bolingbroke.

CONSTITUTIVE
Con"sti*tu`tive, a.

1. Tending or assisting to constitute or compose; elemental;
essential.
An ingredient and constitutive part of every virtue. Barrow.

2. Having power to enact, establish, or create; instituting;
determining. Sir W. Hamilton.

CONSTITUTIVELY
Con"sti*tu`tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a constitutive manner.

CONSTRAIN
Con*strain", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Constrained; p.pr. & vb.n.
Constraining.] Etym: [OF. constraindre, F. contrainde, L.
constringere; con- + stringere to draw tight. See Strain, and. cf.
Constrict, Conbstringere.]

1. To secure by bonds; to chain; to bond or con
He binds in hains The droway prophet, and his limbs constrains.
Dryden.
When winter frosts constrain the fields with old. Dryden.

2. To bring into a narrow compass; to compress.
How the strait stays the slender waist constrain. Gay.

3. To hold back by force; to restrain; to repress.
My sire in caves constrains the winds. Dryden.

4. To compel; to force; to necessiate; to oblige.
The love of Christ constraineth us. 2. Cor. v. 14.
I was constrained to appeal unto CActs xxviii. 19.

5. To violate; to ravish. [Obs.] Shak.

6. To produce in such a manner as to give an unnatural effet; as, a
constrained voice.

Syn.
 -- To compel; force; drive; impel; urge; press.

CONSTRAINABLE
Con*strain"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. constraignable, F.
contraignable.]

Defn: Capable of being constrained; liable to constraint, or to
restraint. Hooker.

CONSTRAINED
Con*strained", a.

Defn: Marked by constraint; not free; not voluntary; embarrassed; as,
a constrained manner; a constrained tone.

CONSTRAINEDLY
Con*strain"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: By constraint or compulsion; in a constrained manner. Hooker.

CONSTRAINER
Con*strain"er, n.

Defn: One who constrains.

CONSTRAINT
Con*straint", n. Etym: [OF. constrainte, F. constrainte.]

Defn: The act of constraining, or the state of being constrained;
that which compels to, or restrains from, action; compulsion;
restraint; necessity.
Long imprisonment and hard constraint. Spenser.
Not by constraint, but bDryden.

Syn.
 -- Compulsion; violence; necessity; urgency.
 -- Constraint, Compulsion. Constraint implies strong binding force;
as, the constraint of necessity; the constraint of fear. Compulsion
implies the exertion of some urgent impelling force; as, driven by
compulsion. The former prevents us from acting agreeably to our
wishes; the latter forces us to act contrary to our will. Compulsion
is always produced by some active agent; a constraint may be laid
upon us by the forms of civil society, or by other outward
circumstances. Crabb.

CONSTRAINTIVE
Con*straint"ive, a.

Defn: Constraining; compulsory. [R.] "Any constraintive vow." R.
Carew.

CONSTRICT
Con*strict", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Constricted; p.pr. & vb.n.
Constricting.] Etym: [L. constrictus, p.p. of constringere. See
Constrain.]

Defn: To draw together; to render narrower or smaller; to bind; to
cramp; to contract or ause to shrink.
Such things as constrict the fibers. Arbuthnot.
Membranous organs inclosing a cavity which their contraction
constrict. Todd & Bowman.

CONSTRICTED
Con*strict"ed, a.

1. Drawn together; bound; contracted; cramped.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Contracted or compressed so as to be smaller in certain places
or parts than in others.

CONSTRICTION
Con*stric"tion, n. Etym: [L. constrictio: cf. F. constriction.]

1. The act of constricting by means of some inherent power or by
movement or change in the thing itself, as distinguished from
compression.

2. The state of being constricted; the point where a thing is
constricted; a narrowing or binding.
A constriction of the parts inservient to speech. Grew.

CONSTRICTIVE
Con*strict"ive, a.

Defn: Serving or tending to bind or constrict.

CONSTRICTOR
Con*strict"or, n.

1. That which constricts, draws together, or contracts.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which contracts or closes an orifice, or which
compresses an organ; a sphincter.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A serpent that kills its prey by inclosing and crushing it with
its folds; as, the boa constrictor.

CONSTRINGE
Con*stringe", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Constringed; p.pr. & vb.n.
Constringing.] Etym: [L. constringere. See onstrain.]

Defn: To dawn together; to contract; to force to contract itself; to
constrict; to cause to shrink. [R.]
Strong liquors . . . intoxicate, constringe, harden the fibers, and
coagulate the fluids. Arbuthnot.

CONSTRINGENT
Con*strin"gent, a. Etym: [L. constringens, p.pr.]

Defn: Having the quality of contracting, binding, or compressing.
Thomson.

CONSTRUCT
Con*struct", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Constructed; p.pr. & vb.n.
Constructing.] Etym: [L. constructus, p.p. of construere to bring
together, to construct; con- + struere to pile up, set in order. See
Structure, and cf. Construe.]

1. To put together the constituent parts of (something) in their
proper place and order; to build; to form; to make; as, to construct
an edlifice.

2. To devise; to invent; to set in order; to arrange; as, to
construct a theory of ethics.

Syn.
 -- To build; erect; form; compile; make; fabricate; originate;
invent.

CONSTRUCT
Con"struct, a.

Defn: Formed by, or relating to, construction, interpretation, or
inference. Construct form or state (Heb. Gram.), that of a noun used
before another which has the genitive relation to it.

CONSTRUCTER
Con*struct"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, constructs or frames.

CONSTRUCTION
Con*struc"tion, n. Etym: [L. constructio: cf. F. construction.]

1. The process or art of constructing; the act of building; erection;
the act of devising and forming; fabrication; composition.

2. The form or manner of building or putting together the parts of
anything; structure; arrangement.
An astrolabe of peculiar construction. Whewell.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: The arrangement and connection of words in a sentence;
syntactical arrangement.
Some particles . . . in certain constructions have the sense of a
whole sentence contained in them. Locke.

4. The method of construing, interpreting, or explaining a
declaration or fact; an attributed sense or meaning; understanding;
explanation; interpretation; sense.
Any person . . . might, by the sort of construction that would be put
on this act, become liable to the penalties of treason. Hallam.
Strictly, the term [construction] signifies determining the meaning
and proper effect of language by a consideration of the subject
matter and attendant circumstances in connection with the words
employed. Abbott.
Interpretation properly precedes construction, but it does not go
beyond the written text. Parsons.
Construction of an equation (Math.), the drawing of such lines and
figures as will represent geometrically the quantities in the
equation, and their relations to each other.
 -- Construction train (Railroad), a train for transporting men and
materials for construction or repairs.

CONSTRUCTIONAL
Con*struc"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or deduced from, construction or interpretation.

CONSTRUCTIONIST
Con*struc"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who puts a certain construction upon some writing or
instrument, as the Constitutions of the United States; as, a strict
constructionist; a broad constructionist.

CONSTRUCTIVE
Con*struct"ive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. constructif.]

1. Having ability to construct or form; employed in construction; as,
to exhibit constructive power.
The constructive fingers of Watts. Emerson.

2. Derived from, or depending on, construction or interpretation; not
directly expressed, but inferred. Constructive crimes (Law), acts
having effects analogous to those of some statutory or common law
crimes; as, constructive treason. Constructive crimes are no longer
recognized by the courts.
 -- Constructive notice, notice imputed by construction of law.
 -- Constructive trust, a trust which may be assumed to exist, though
no actual mention of it be made.

CONSTRUCTIVELY
Con*struct"ive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a constructive manner; by construction or inference.
A neutral must have notice of a blockade, either actually by a formal
information, or constructively by notice to his government. Kent.

CONSTRUCTIVENESS
Con*struct"ive*ness, n.

1. Tendency or ability to form or construct.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: The faculty which enables one to construct, as in mechanical,
artistic, or literary matters.

CONSTRUCTOR
Con*struct"or, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. constructor.]

Defn: A constructer.

CONSTRUCTURE
Con*struc"ture, n.

Defn: That which is constructed or formed; an edifice; a fabric.
[Obs.]

CONSTRUE
Con*strue (; Archaic ), v. t. [imp & p. p. Construed; p. pr & vb. n.
Construing.] Etym: [L. construere: cf. F. construire. See Construct.]

1. To apply the rules of syntax to (a sentence or clause) so as to
exhibit the structure, arrangement, or connection of, or to discover
the sense; to explain the construction of; to interpret; to
translate.

2. To put a construction upon; to explain the sense or intention of;
to interpret; to understand.
Thus we are put to construe and paraphrase our own words to free
ourselves either from the ignorance or malice of our enemies. Bp.
Stilingfleet.
And to be dull was construed to be good. Pope.

CONSTUPRATE
Con"stu*prate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Construprated; p.p. & vb.n.
Constuprating.] Etym: [L. constupratus, p.p. of constuprare to
ravish; con- + stuprare to ravish, stuprum rape.]

Defn: To ravish; to debauch. Burton.

CONSTUPRATION
Con`stu*pra"tion, n.

Defn: The act of ravishing; violation; defilement. Bp. Hall.

CONSUBSTANTIAL
Con`sub*stan"tial, a. Etym: [L. consubstantialis; con- +
substantialis: cf. F. consubstantiel. See Substantial.]

Defn: Of the same kind or nature; having the same substance or
essence; coessential.
Christ Jesus . . . coeternal and consubstantial with the Father and
with the Holy Ghost. Foxe.

CONSUBSTANTIALISM
Con`sub*stan"tial*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine of consubstantiation.

CONSUBSTANTIALIST
Con`sub*stan"tial*ist, n.

Defn: One who believes in consubstantiation. Barrow.

CONSUBSTANTIALITY
Con`sub*stan"ti*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. consubstantialité.]

Defn: Participation of the same nature; coexistence in the same
substance. "His [the Son's] . . . consubstantiality with the Father."
Hammend.

CONSUBSTANTIALLY
Con`sub*stan"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a consubstantial manner; with identity of substance or
nature.

CONSUBSTANTIATE
Con`sub*stan"ti*ate, v. t. [imp & p. p. Consubstantiated; p.pr & vb.
n. Consubstantiating.]

Defn: To cause to unite, or to regard as united, in one common
substance or nature. [R.]
His soul must be consubstantiated with reason. Jer. Taylor.

CONSUBSTANTIATE
Con`sub*stan"ti*ate, v. i.

Defn: To profess or belive the doctrine of consubstantion.
The consubstantiating church and priest. Dryden.

CONSUBSTANTIATE
Con`sub*stan"ti*ate, a.

Defn: Partaking of the same substance; united; consubstantial.
We must love her [the wife] that is thus consubstantiate with us.
Feltham.

CONSUBSTANTIATION
Con`sub*stan`ti*a"tion, n.

1. An identity or union of substance.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: The actual, substantial presence of the body of Christ with the
bread and wine of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper; impanation; --
opposed to transubstantiation.

Note: This view, held by Luther himself, was called consubstantiation
by non Lutheran writers in contradistinction to transsubstantiation,
the Catholic view.

CONSUETUDE
Con"sue*tude (; 144), n. Etym: [L. consuetudo. See Custom.]

Defn: Custom, habit; usage. [R.]
To observe this consuetude or law. Barnes
.

CONSUETUDINAL
Con`sue*tu"di*nal, a. Etym: [LL. consuetudinalis.]

Defn: According to custom; customary; usual. [R.]

CONSUETUDINARY
Con`sue*tu"di*na"ry, a. Etym: [LL. consuetudinarius.]

Defn: Customary.

CONSUETUDINARY
Con`sue*tu"di*na*ry, n.; pl. Consuetudinaries (.

Defn: A manual or ritual of customary devotional exercises.

CONSUL
Con"sul, n. Etym: [L., prob. fr. consulere to deliberate. See
Consult.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: One of the two chief magistrates of the republic.

Note: They were chosen annually, originally from the patricians only,
but later from the plebeians also.

2. A senator; a counselor. [Obs.]
Many of the consuls, raised and met, Are at the duke's already. Shak.
With kings and consuls of the earth. Job. iii. 14 (Douay Ver. )

3. (Fr. Hist.)

Defn: One of the three chief magistrates of France from 1799 to 1804,
who were called, respectively, first, second, and third consul.

4. An official comissioned to reside in some foreign country, to care
for the commercial interests of the citizens of the appointing
government, and to protect its seamen. Consul general, a consul of
the first rank, stationed in an important place, or having
jurisdiction in several places or over several consula.
 -- Vice consul, a consular officer holding the place of a consul
during the consul's absence or after he has been relieved.

CONSULAGE
Con"sul*age, n. (Com.)

Defn: A duty or tax paid by merchants for the protection of their
connerce by means of a consul in a foreign place.

CONSULAR
Con"su*lar, a. Etym: [L. consularis; cf. F. consulaire.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a consul; performing the duties of a
consul; as, consular power; consular dignity; consular officers.

CONSULARY
Con"su*la"ry, a.

Defn: Consular. [Obs.] Holland.

CONSULATE
Con"su*late, n. Etym: [L. consulatus: cf. F. consulat.]

1. The office of a consul. Addison.

2. The jurisdiction or residence of a consul. Kent.

3. Consular government; term of office of a consul.

CONSULSHIP
Con"sul*ship, n.

1. The office of a consul; consulate.

2. The term of office of a consul.

CONSULT
Con*sult", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Consulted; p.pr. & vb.n. Consulting.]
Etym: [L. consultare, fr. consulere to consult: cf. f. consulter. Cf.
Counsel.]

Defn: To seek the opinion or advice of another; to take consel; to
deliberate together; to confer.
Let us consult upon to-morrow's business. Shak.
All the laws of England have been made by the kings England,
consulting with the nobility and commons. Hobbes.

CONSULT
Con*sult", v. t.

1. To ask advice of; to seek the opinion of; to apply to for
information or instruction; to refer to; as, to consult a physician;
to consult a dictionary.
Men fergot, or feared, to consult . . . ; they were content to
consult liberaries. Whewell.

2. To have reference to, in judging or acting; to have regard to; to
consider; as, to consult one's wishes.
We are . . . to consult the necessities of life, rather than matters
of ornament and delight. L'Estrange.

3. To deliberate upon; to take for. [Obs.]
Manythings were there consulted for the future, yet nothing was
positively resolved. Clarendon.

4. To bring about by counsel or contrivance; to devise; to contrive.
[Obs.]
Thou hast consulted shame to thy Hab. ii. 10.

CONSULT
Con*sult" ( or ), n.

1. The act of consulting or deliberating; consultation; also, the
result of consulation; determination; decision. [Obs.]
The council broke; And all grave consults dissolved in smoke. Dryden.

2. A council; a meeting for consultation. [Obs.] "A consult of
coquettes." Swift.

3. Agreement; concert [Obs.] Dryden.

CONSULTARY
Con*sult"a*ry, a.

Defn: Formed by consultation; resulting from conference. Consultary
response (Law), the opinion of a court on a special case. Wharton.

CONSULTATION
Con`sul*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. consultatio: cf. F. consultation.]

1. The act of consulting or conferring; deliberation of two or more
persons on some matter, with a view to a decision.
Thus they doubtful consultations dark Ended. Milton.

2. A council or conference, as of physicians, held to consider a
special case, or of lawyers restained in a cause. Writ of
consultation (Law), a writ by which a cause, improperly removed by
prohibition from one court to another, is returned to the court from
which it came; -- so called because the judges, on consultation, find
the prohibition ill-founded.

CONSULTATIVE
Con*sult"a*tive, a.

Defn: Pertaining to consultation; having the privilege or right of
conference. "A consultative . . . power." Abp. Bramhall.

CONSULTATORY
Con*sult"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Formed by, or resulting from, consultation; advisory. Bancroft.

CONSULTER
Con*sult"er, n.

Defn: One who consults, or asks counsel or information.

CONSULTING
Con*sult"ing, a.

Defn: That consults. Consulting physician (Med.), a physician who
consults with the attending practitioner regarding any case of
disease.

CONSULTIVE
Con*sult"ive, a.

Defn: Determined by, or pertaining to, consultation; deliberate;
consultative.
He that remains in the grace of God sins not by any deliberative,
consultive, knowing act. Jer. Taylor.

CONSUMABLE
Con*sum"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being consumed; that may be destroyed, dissipated,
wasted, or spent. "Consumable commodities." Locke.

CONSUME
Con*sume", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Consumed; p.pr. & vb.n. Consuming.]
Etym: [L. consumere to take wholly or complectely, to consume; con- +
sumere to take; sub + emere to buv. See Redeem.]

Defn: To destroy, as by decomposition, dissipation, waste, or fire;
to use up; to expend; to waste; to burn up; to eat up; to devour.
If he were putting to my house the brand That shall consume it. Shak.
Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor
rust doth consume. Matt. vi. 20 (Rev. Ver. ).
Let me alone . . . that I may consume them. Ex. xxxii. 10.

Syn.
 -- To destroy; swallow up; ingulf; absorb; waste; exhaust; spend;
expend; squander; lavish; dissipate.

CONSUME
Con*sume", v. i.

Defn: To waste away slowly.
Therefore, let Renedick, like covered fire, Consume away in sighs.
Shak.

CONSUMEDLY
Con*sum"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Excessively. [Low]
He's so consumedly pround of it. Thackeray.

CONSUMER
Con*sum"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, consumes; as, the consumer of food.

CONSUMER'S GOODS
Con*sum"er's goods. (Polit. Econ.)

Defn: Economic goods that directly satisfy human wants or desires,
such as food, clothes, pictures, etc.; -- called also consumption
goods, or goods of the first order, and opposed to producer's goods.

CONSUMER'S SURPLUS
Consumer's surplus. (Polit. econ.)

Defn: The excess that a purchaser would be willing to pay for a
commodity over that he does pay, rather than go without the
commodity; -- called also consumer's rent.

The price which a person pays for a thing can never exceed, and
seldom comes up to, that which he would be willing to pay rather than
go without it. . . . The excess of the price which he would be
willing to pay rather than go without it, over that which he actually
does pay, is the economic measure of this surplus satisfaction.  It
has some analogies to a rent; but is perhaps best called simply
consumer's surplus.
Alfred Marshall.

CONSUMINGLY
Con*sum"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a consuming manner.

CONSUMMATE
Con*sum"mate, a. Etym: [L. consummatus, p.p. or consummare to
accomplish, sum up; con- + summa sum. See Sum.]

Defn: Carried to the utmost extent or degree; of the highest quality;
complete; perfect. "A man of perfect and consummate virtue." Addison.
The little band held the post with consummate tenacity. Motley

CONSUMMATE
Con"sum*mate, v. t. [imp & p. p. Consummated; p. pr & vb. n.
Consummating.]

Defn: To bring to completion; to raise to the highest point or
degree; to complete; to finish; to perfect; to achieve.
To consummate this business happily. Shak.

CONSUMMATELY
Con*sum"mate*ly, adv.

Defn: In a consummate manner; completely. T. Warton.

CONSUMMATION
Con`sum*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. consummatio.]

Defn: The act of consummating, or the state of being consummated;
completed; completion; perfection; termination; end (as of the world
or of life).
"Tis a consummation Devoutly to be wished. Shak.
From its original to its consummation. Addison.
Quiet consummation have, And renownShak.
Consummation of marrige, completion of the connubial relation by
actual cohabition.

CONSUMMATIVE
Con*sum"ma*tive, a.

Defn: Serving to consummate; completing. "The final, the consummative
procedure of philosophy." Sir W. Hamilton.

CONSUMPTION
Con*sump"tion, n.. Etym: [L. consumptio: cf. F. consomption.]

1. The act or process of consuming by use, waste, etc.; decay;
destruction.
Every new advance of the price to the consumer is a new incentive to
him to retrench the quality of his consumption. Burke.

2. The state or process of being consumed, wasted, or diminished;
waste; diminution; loss; decay.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A progressive wasting away of the body; esp., that form of
wasting, attendant upon pulmonary phthisis and associated with cough,
spitting of blood, hectic fever, etc.; pulmonary phthisis; -- called
also pulmonary consumption. Consumption of the bowels (Med.),
inflammation and ulceration of the intestines from tubercular
disease.

Syn.
 -- Decline; waste; decay. See Decline.

CONSUMPTIVE
Con*sump"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. consomptif.]

1. Of or pertaining to consumption; having the quality of consuming,
or dissipating; destructive; wasting.
It [prayer] is not consumptive or our time. Sharp.
A long consumptive war. Addison.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Affected with, or inclined to, consumption.
The lean, consumptive wench, with coughs decayed. Dryden.

CONSUMPTIVE
Con*sump"tive, n.

Defn: One affected with consumption; as, a resort for consumptives.

CONSUMPTIVELY
Con*sump"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a way tending to or indication consumption. Beddoes.

CONSUMPTIVENESS
Con*sump"tive*ness, n.

Defn: A state of being consumptive, or a tendency to a consumption.

CONTABESCENT
Con`ta*bes"cent, a. Etym: [L. contabescenc, p.pr. of contabescere.]

Defn: Wasting away gradually. Darwin. - Con*ta*bes"cence, n.

CONTACT
Con"tact, n. Etym: [L. contactus, fr. contingere, -tactum, to touch
on all sides. See Contingent.]

1. A close union or junction of bodies; a touching or meeting.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: The property of two curves, or surfaces, which meet, and at the
point of meeting have a common direction.

3. (Mining)

Defn: The plane between two adjacent bodies of dissimilar rock.
Raymond. Contact level, a delicate level so pivoted as to tilt when
two parts of a measuring apparatus come into contact with each other;
-- used in precise determinations of lengths and in the accurate
graduation of instruments.

CONTACTION
Con*tac"tion, n.

Defn: Act of touching. [Obs.]

CONTAGION
Con*ta"gion, n. Etym: [L. contagio: cf. F. contagion. See Contact.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: The transmission of a disease from one person to another, by
direct or indirect contact.

Note: The term has been applied by some to the action of miasmata
arising from dead animal or vegetable matter, bogs, fens, etc., but
in this sense it is now abandoned. Dunglison.
And will he steal out of his wholesome bed To dare the vile contagion
of the night Shak.

2. That which serves as a medium or agency to transmit disease; a
virus produced by, or exhalation proceeding from, a diseased person,
and capable of reproducing the disease.

3. The act or means of communicating any influence to the mind or
heart; as, the contagion of enthusiasm. "The contagion of example."
Eikon Basilike.
When lust . . . Lets in defilement to the inward parts, The soul
grows clotted by contagion. Milton.

4. Venom; poison. [Obs.] "I'll touch my point with this contagion."
Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Infection.

CONTAGIONED
Con*ta"gioned, a.

Defn: Affected by contagion.

CONTAGIONIST
Con*ta"gion*ist, n.

Defn: One who believes in the contagious character of certain
diseases, as of yellow fever.

CONTAGIOUS
Con*ta"gious, a. Etym: [L. contagiosus: cf. F. contagieux.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Communicable by contact, by a virus, or by a bodily exhalation;
catching; as, a contagious disease.

2. Conveying or generating disease; pestilential; poisonous; as,
contagious air.

3. Spreading or communicable from one to another; exciting similar
emotions or conduct in others.
His genius rendered his courage more contagious. Wirt.
The spirit of imitation is contagious. Ames.

Syn.
 -- Contagious, Infectious. These words have been used in very
diverse senses; but, in general, a contagious disease has considered
as one which is caught from another by contact, by the breath, by
bodily effluvia, etc.; while an infectious disease supposes some
entirely different cause acting by a hidden influence, like the
miasma of prison ships, of marshes, etc., infecting the system with
disease. "This distinction, though not universally admitted by
medical men, as to the literal meaning, of the words, certainly
applies to them in their figurative use. Thus we speak of the
contagious influence of evil associates; their contagion of bad
example, the contagion of fear, etc., when we refer to transmission
by proximity or contact. On the other hand, we speak of infection by
bad principles, etc., when we consider anything as diffused by some
hidden influence.

CONTAGIOUS DISEASE
Con*ta"gious dis*ease". (Med.)

Defn: A disease communicable by contact with a patient suffering from
it, or with some secretion of, or object touched by, such a patient.
Most such diseases have already been proved to be germ diseases, and
their communicability depends on the transmission of the living
germs.  Many germ diseases are not contagious, some special method of
transmission or inoculation of the germs being required.

CONTAGIOUSLY
Con*ta"gious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a contagious manner.

CONTAGIOUSNESS
Con*ta"gious*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being contagious.

CONTAGIUM
Con*ta"gi*um, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Contagion; contagious matter. "Contagium of measles." Tyndall.

CONTAIN
Con*tain", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contained; p.pr. & vb.n. Containing.]
Etym: [OE. contenen, conteinen, F. contenir, fr. L. continere, -
tentum; con- + tenere to hold. See Tenable, and cf. Countenance.]

1. To hold within fixed limits; to comprise; to include; to inclose;
to hold.
Behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens can not contain thee; how
much less this house! 2 Chron. vi. 18.
When that this body did contain a spirit. Shak.
What thy stores contain bring forth. Milton.

2. To have capacity for; to be able to hold; to hold; to be
equivalent to; as, a bushel contains four pecks.

3. To put constraint upon; to restrain; to confine; to keep within
bounds. [Obs., exept as used reflexively.]
The king's person contains the unruly people from evil occasions.
Spenser.
Fear not, my lord: we can contain ourselves. Shak.

CONTAIN
Con*tain", v. i.

Defn: To restrain desire; to live in continence or chastity.
But if they can not contain, let them marry. 1 Cor. vii. 9.

CONTAINABLE
Con*tain"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being contained or comprised. Boyle.

CONTAINANT
Con*tain"ant, n.

Defn: A container.

CONTAINER
Con*tain"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, contains.

CONTAINMENT
Con*tain"ment, n.

Defn: That which is contained; the extent; the substance. [Obs.]
The containment of a rich man's estate. Fuller.

CONTAMINABLE
Con*tam"i*na*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being contaminated.

CONTAMINATE
Con*tam"i*nate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contaminated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Contaminating.] Etym: [L. contaminatus, p.p. of contaminare to bring
into contact, to contaminate, fr. contamen contagion, for contagmen;
con- + root of tangere to touch. See Contact.]

Defn: To soil, stain, or corrupt by contact; to tarnish; to sully; to
taint; to pollute; to defile.
Shall we now Contaminate our figures with base bribes Shak.
I would neither have simplicity imposed upon, nor virtue
contaminated. Goldsmith.

Syn.
 -- To pollute; defile; sully; taint; tarnish; soil; stain; corrupt.

CONTAMINATE
Con*tam"i*nate, a.

Defn: Contaminated; defiled; polluted; tainted. "Contaminate drink."
Daniel.

CONTAMINATION
Con*tam`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. contaminatio.]

Defn: The act or process of contaminating; pollution; defilement;
taint; also, that which contaminates.

CONTAMITIVE
Con*tam"i*tive, a.

Defn: Tending or liable to contaminate.

CONTANGO
Con*tan"go, n.; pl. Contangoes. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of
contingent.]

1. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: The premium or interest paid by the buyer to the seller, to be
allowed to defer paying for the stock purchased until the next
fortnightly settlement day. [Eng.]

2. (Law)

Defn: The postponement of payment by the buyer of stock on the
payment of a premium to the seller. See Backwardation. N. Biddle.

CONTE
Conte, n.; pl. Contes (#). [F.]

Defn: A short narrative or tale, esp. one dealing with surprising or
marvelous events.

The conte (sic) is a tale something more than a sketch, it may be,
and something less than a short story. . . . The "Canterbury Tales"
are contes, most of them, if not all, and so are some of the "Tales
of a Wayside Inn."
Brander Matthews.

CONTECTION
Con*tec"tion, n. Etym: [L. contegere, -tectum, to cover up.]

Defn: A covering. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CONTEK
Con"tek, n. Etym: [OE. conteck, conteke, contake, perh. a corruption
either of contact or contest.]

1. Quarrel; contention; contest. [Obs.]
Contek with bloody knife. Chaucer.

2
2

Defn: Contumely; reproach. [Obs.] Wyclif.

CONTEMN
Con*temn", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contemned; p.pr. & vb.n. Contemning (
or ).] Etym: [L. contemnere, -temptum; con- + temnere to slight,
despise: cf. OF. contemner.]

Defn: To view or treat with contempt, as mean and despicable; to
reject with disdain; to despise; to scorn.
Thy pompous delicacies I contemn. Milton.
One who contemned divine and human laws. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To despise; scorn; disdain; spurn; slight; neglect; underrate;
overlook.
 -- To Contemn, Despise, Scorn, Disdain. Contemn is the generic term,
and is applied especially to objects, qualities, etc., which are
deemed contemptible, and but rarely to individuals; to despise is to
regard or treat as mean, unbecoming, or worthless; to scorn is
stronger, expressing a quick, indignant contempt; disdain is still
stronger, denoting either unwarrantable pride and haughtiness or an
abhorrence of what is base.

CONTEMNER
Con*tem"ner ( or ), n.

Defn: One who contemns; a despiser; a scorner. "Contemners of the
gods." South.

CONTEMNINGLY
Con*tem"ning*ly, adv.

Defn: Contemptuously. [R.]

CONTEMPER
Con*tem"per, v. t. Etym: [L. contemperare, -temperatum; con- +
temperare to temper. Cf. Contemperate.]

Defn: To modify or temper; to allay; to qualify; to moderate; to
soften. [Obs.]
The antidotes . . . have allayed its bitterness and contempered its
malignancy. Johnson.

CONTEMPERATE
Con*tem"per*ate, v. t. Etym: [See Contemper.]

Defn: To temper; to moderate. [Obs.]
Moisten and contemperate the air. Sir T. Browne.

CONTEMPERATION
Con*tem`per*a"tion, n.

1. The act of tempering or moderating. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

2. Proportionate mixture or combination. "Contemperation of light and
shade." Boyle.

CONTEMPERATURE
Con*tem"per*a*ture, n.

Defn: The condition of being tempered; proportionate mixture;
temperature. [Obs.]
The different contemperature of the elements. SDouth.

CONTEMPLANCE
Con*tem"plance, n.

Defn: Contemplation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CONTEMPLANT
Con*tem"plant, a. Etym: [L. contemplans, p.pr.]

Defn: Given to contemplation; meditative. [R.] Coleridge.

CONTEMPLATE
Con"tem*plate, v. t. [imp & p. p. Contemplated (# or #); p.pr & vb.
n. Contemplating.] Etym: [L. contemplatus, p.p. of contemplari to
contemplate; con- + templum a space for observation marked out by the
augur. See Temple.]

1. To look at on all sides or in all its bearings; to view or
consider with continued attention; to regard with deliberate care; to
meditate on; to study.
To love, at least contemplate and admire, What I see excellent.
Milton.
We thus dilate Our spirits to the size of that they contemplate.
Byron.

2. To consider or have in view, as contingent or probable; to look
forward to; to purpose; to intend.
There remain some particulars to complete the information
contemplated by those resolutions. A. Hamilton.
If a treaty contains any stipulations which contemplate a state of
future war. Kent.

Syn.
 -- To view; behold; study; ponder; muse; meditate on; reflect on;
consider; intend; design; plan; propose; purpose. See Meditate.

CONTEMPLATE
Con"tem*plate, v. i.

Defn: To consider or think studiously; to ponder; to reflect; to
muse; to meditate.
So many hours must I contemplate. Shak.

CONTEMPLATION
Con`tem*pla"tion, n. Etym: [F. contemplation, L. contemplatio.]

1. The act of the mind in considering with attention; continued
attention of the mind to a particular subject; meditation; musing;
study.
In contemplation of created things, By steps we may ascend to God.
Milton.
Contemplation is keeping the idea which is brought into the mind for
some time actually in view. Locke.

2. Holy meditation. [Obs.]
To live in prayer and contemplation. Shak.

3. The act of looking forward to an event as about to happen;
expectation; the act of intending or purposing.
In contemplation of returning at an early date, he left. Reid.
To have in contemplation, to inted or purpose, or to have under
consideration.

CONTEMPLATIST
Con*tem"pla*tist, n.

Defn: A contemplator. [R.] I. Taylor.

CONTEMPLATIVE
Con*tem"pla*tive, a. Etym: [F. contemplatif, L. contemplativus.]

1. Pertaining to contemplation; addicted to, or employed in,
contemplation; meditative.
Fixed and contemplative their looks. Denham.

2. Having the power of contemplation; as, contemplative faculties.
Ray.

CONTEMPLATIVE
Con*tem"pla*tive, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A religious or either sex devoted to prayer and meditation,
rather than to active works of charity.

CONTEMPLATIVELY
Con*tem"pla*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: With contemplation; in a contemplative manner.

CONTEMPLATIVENESS
Con*tem"pla*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being contemplative; thoughtfulness.

CONTEMPLATOR
Con"tem*pla`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who contemplates. Sir T. Browne.

CONTEMPORANEITY
Con*tem`po*ra*ne"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being contemporaneous.
The lines of contemporaneity in the oölitic system. J. Philips.

CONTEMPORANEOUS
Con*tem`po*ra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. contemporaneus; con- + tempus
time. See Temporal, and cf. Contemporaneous.]

Defn: Living, existing, or occurring at the same time; contemporary.
The great age of Jewish philosophy, that of Aben Esra, Maimonides,
and Kimchi, had been contemporaneous with the later Spanish school of
Arabic philosophy. Milman
- Con*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ness, n.

CONTEMPORANEOUSLY
Con*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: At the same time with some other event.

CONTEMPORARINESS
Con*tem"po*ra*ri*ness, n.

Defn: Existence at the same time; contemporaneousness. Howell.

CONTEMPORARY
Con*tem"po*ra*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. con- + L. temporarius of belonging
to time, tempus time. See Temporal, and cf. Contemporaneous.]

1. Living, occuring, or existing, at the same time; done in, or
belonging to, the same times; contemporaneous.
This king [Henry VIII.] was contemporary with the greatest monarchs
of Europe. Strype.

2. Of the same age; coeval.
A grove born with himself he sees, And loves his old contemporary
trees. Cowley.

CONTEMPORARY
Con*tem"po*ra*ry, n.; pl. Contemporaries.

Defn: One who lives at the same time with another; as, Petrarch and
Chaucer were contemporaries.

CONTEMPT
Con*tempt", n. Etym: [L. contemptus, fr. contemnere: cf. OF.
contempt. See Contemn.]

1. The act of contemning or despising; the feeling with which one
regards that which is esteement mean, vile, or worthless; disdain;
scorn.
Criminal contempt of public feeling. Macaulay.
Nothing, says Longinus, can be great, the contempt of which is great.
Addison.

2. The state of being despised; disgrace; shame.
Contempt and begarry hangs upon thy back. Shaks.

3. An act or expression denoting contempt.
Little insults and contempts. Spectator.
The contempt and anger of his lip. Shak.

4. (Law)

Defn: Disobedience of the rules, orders, or process of a court of
justice, or of rules or orders of a legislative body; disorderly,
contemptuous, or insolent language or behavior in presence of a
court, tending to disturb its proceedings, or impair the respect due
to its authority.

Note: Contempt is in some jurisdictions extended so as to include
publications reflecting injuriously on a court of justice, or
commenting unfairly on pending proceedings; in other jurisdictions
the courts are prohibited by statute or by the constitution from thus
exercising this process.

Syn.
 -- Disdain; scorn; derision; mockery; contumely; neglect; disregard;
slight.

CONTEMPTIBILITY
Con*tempt`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being contemptible; contemptibleness. Speed.

CONTEMPTIBLE
Con*tempt"i*ble, a.

1. Worthy of contempt; deserving of scorn or disdain; mean; vile;
despicable. Milton.
The arguments of tyranny are ascontemptible as its force is dreadful.
Burke.

2. Despised; scorned; neglected; abject. Locke.

3. Insolent; scornful; contemptuous. [Obs.]
If she should make tender of her love, 't is very possible he 'll
scorn it; for the man . . . hath a contemptible spirit. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Despicable; abject; vile; mean; base; paltry; worthless; sorry;
pitiful; scurrile. See Contemptuous.
 -- Contemptible, Despicable, Pitiful, Paltry. Despicable is stronger
than contemptible, as despise is stronger than contemn. It implies
keen disapprobation, with a mixture of anger. A man is despicable
chiefly for low actions which mark his life, such as servility,
baseness, or mean adulation. A man is contemptible for mean qualities
which distinguish his character, especially those which show him to
be weak, foolish, or worthless. Treachery is despicable, egotism is
contemptible. Pitiful and paltry are applied to cases which are
beneath anger, and are simply contemptible in a high degree.

CONTEMPTIBLENESS
Con*tempt"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being contemptible, or of being
despised.

CONTEMPTIBLY
Con*tempt"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In a contemptible manner.

CONTEMPTUOUS
Con*temp"tu*ous, a.

Defn: Manifecting or expressing contempt or disdain; scornful;
haughty; insolent; disdainful.
A proud, contemptious behavior. Hammond.
Savage invectiveand contemptuous sarcasm. Macaulay.
Rome . . . entertained the most contemptuous opinion of the Jews.
Atterbury.

Syn.
 -- Scornful; insolent; haughty; disdainful; supercilious; insulting;
contumelious.
 -- Contemptuous, Contemptible. These words, from their similarity of
sound, are sometimes erroneously interchanged, as when a person
speaks of having "a very contemptible opinion of another."
Contemptible is applied to that which is the object of contempt; as,
contemptible conduct; acontemptible fellow. Contemptuous is applied
to that which indicates contempts; as, a contemptuous look; a
contemptuous remark; contemptuous treatment. A person, or whatever is
personal, as an action, an expression, a feeling, an opinion, may be
either contemptuous or contemptible; a thing may be contemptible, but
can not be contemptuous.

CONTEMPTUOUSLY
Con*temp"tu*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a contemptuous manner; with scorn or disdain; despitefully.
The apostles and most eminent Christians were poor, and used
contemptuously. Jer. Taylor.

CONTEMPTUOUSNESS
Con*temp"tu*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Disposition to or manifestion of contempt; insolence;
haughtiness.

CONTEND
Con*tend", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Contended; p.pr. & vb.n. Contending.]
Etym: [OF. contendre, L. contendere, -tentum; con- + tendere to
strech. See Tend.]

1. To strive in opposition; to contest; to dispute; to vie; to
quarrel; to fight.
For never two such kingdoms did content Without much fall of blood.
Shak.
The Lord said unto me, Distress not the Moabites, neither contend
with them in battle. Deut. ii. 9.
In ambitious strength I did Contend against thy valor. Shak.

2. To struggle or exert one's self to obtain or retain possession of,
or to defend.
You sit above, and see vain men below Contend for what you only can
bestow. Dryden.

3. To strive in debate; to engage in discussion; to dispute; to
argue.
The question which our author would contend for. Locke.
Many things he fiercely contended about were trivial. Dr. H. More.

Syn.
 -- To struggle; fight; combat; vie; strive; oppose; emulate;
contest; litigate; dispute; debate.

CONTEND
Con*tend", v. t.

Defn: To struggle for; to contest. [R.]
Carthage shall contend the world with Rome.Dryden.

CONTENDENT
Con*tend"ent, n. Etym: [L. contendens, p.pr.]

Defn: n antagonist; a contestant. [Obs.]
In all notable changes and revolutions the contendents have been
still made a prey to the third party. L'Estrange.

CONTENDER
Con*tend"er, n.

Defn: One who contends; a contestant.

CONTENDRESS
Con*tend"ress, n.

Defn: A female contestant. [R.]

CONTENEMENT
Con*ten"e*ment, n. Etym: [Pref. con- + tenemnt.] (Law)

Defn: That which is held together with another thing; that which is
connected with a tenetment, or thing holden, as a certin quantity of
land a Burrill.

CONTENT
Con*tent, a. Etym: [F. content, fr. L. contentus, p.p. of contenire
to hold together, restrain. See Contain.]

Defn: Contained within limits; hence, having the desires limited by
that which one has; not disposed to repine or grumble; satisfied;
contented; at rest.
Having food rainment, let us be therewith content. 1 Tim. vi. 8.

CONTENT
Con"tent ( or ; 277), n.; usually in pl., Contents.

1. That which is contained; the thing or things held by a receptacle
or included within specified limits; as, the contents of a cask or
bale or of a room; the contents of a book.
I shall prove these writings . . . authentic, and the contents true,
and worthy of a divine original. Grew.

2. Power of containing; capacity; extent; size. [Obs.]
Strong ship's, of great content. Bacon.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: Area or quantity of space or matter contained within certain
limits; as, solid contents; superficial contents.
The geometrical content, figure, and situation of all the lands of a
kingdom. Graunt.
Table of contents, or Contents, a table or list of topics in a book,
showing their order and the place where they may be found: a summary.

CONTENT
Con*tent", v. t. Etym: [F. contenter, LL. contentare, fr. L.
contentus, p.p. See Content, a.]

1. To satisfy the desires of; to make easy in any situation; to
appease or quiet; to gratify; to please.
Do not content yourselves with obscure and confused ideas, where
clearer are to be attained. I. Watts.
Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbas unto them.
Mark xv. 15.

2. To satisfy the expectations of; to pay; to requite.
Come the next Sabbath, and I will content you. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To satisfy; appease; plese. See Satiate.

CONTENT
Con*tent", n.

1. Rest or quietness of the mind in one's present condition; freedom
from discontent; satisfaction; contentment; moderate happiness.
Such is the fullness of my heart's content. Shak.

2. Acquiescence without examination. [Obs.]
The sense they humbly take upon content. Pope.

3. That which contents or satisfies; that which if attained would
make one happy.
So will I in England work your grace's full content. Shak.

4. (Eng. House of Lords)

Defn: An expression of assent to a bill or motion; an affirmate vote;
also, a member who votes "Content.".
Supposing the number of "Contents" and "Not contents" strictly equal
in number and consequence.Burke.

CONTENTATION
Con`ten*ta"tion, n. Etym: [LL. contentatio.]

Defn: Content; satisfaction. [Obs.] Bacon.

CONTENTED
Con*tent"ed, a.

Defn: Content; easy in mind; satisfied; quiet; willing.
 -- Con*tent"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Con*tent"ed*ness, n.

CONTENTFUL
Con*tent"ful, a.

Defn: Full of content. [Obs.] Barrow.

CONTENTION
Con*ten"tion, n. Etym: [F. contention, L. contentio. See Contend.]

1. A violent effort or struggle to obtain, or to resist, something;
contest; strife.
I would my arcontenion. Shak.

2. Strife in words; controversy; altercation quarrel; dispute; as, a
bone of contention.
Contentions and strivings about the law. Titus iii. 9.

3. Vehemence of endeavor; eagerness; ardor; zeal.
An end . . . worthy our utmost contenion to obtain. Rogers.

4. A point maintained in an argument, or a line of argument taken in
its support; the subject matter of discussion of strife; a position
taken or contended for.
All men seem agreed what is to be done; the contention is how the
subject is to be divided and defined. Bagehot.
This was my original contention, and I still maintain that you should
abide by your former decision. Jowett.

Syn.
 -- Struggle; strife; contest; quarrel; combat; conflict; feud;
litigation; controversy; dissension; variance; disagreement; debate;
competition; emulation.
 -- Contention, Strife. A struggle between two parties is the idea
common to these two words. Strife is a struggle for mastery;
contention is a struggle for the possession of some desired object,
or the accomplishment of some favorite end. Neither of the words is
necessairly used in a bad sense, since there may be a generous strife
or contention between two friends as to which shall incur danger or
submit to sacrifices. Ordinarily, however, these words denote a
struggle arising from bad passions. In that case, strife usually
springs from a quarrelsome temper, and contention from, a selfish
spirit which seeks its own aggrandizement, or is fearful lest others
should obtain too such. Strife has more reference to the manner than
to the object of a struggle, while contention takes more account of
the end to be gained.

CONTENTIOUS
Con*ten"tious, a. Etym: [L. contentiosus: cf. F. contentieux.]

1. Fond of contention; given to angry debate; provoking dispute or
contention; quarrelsome.
Despotic and contentious temper. Macaulay.

2. Relating to contention or strife; involving or characterized by
contention. Spenser.
More cheerfull; though not less contentious, regions. Brougham.

3. (Law)

Defn: Contested; litigated; litigious; having power to decide
controversy. Contentious jurisdiction (Eng. Eccl. Law), jurisdiction
over matters in controversy between parties, in contradistinction to
voluntary jurisdiction, or that exercised upon matters not opposed or
controverted.

Syn.
 -- Quarrelsome; pugnacious; dissentious; wrangling; litigious;
perverse; peevish. - Con*ten"tious*ly, adv.
 -- Con*ten"tious*ness, n.

CONTENTLESS
Con*tent"less, a. Etym: [Content + -less.]

Defn: Discontented; dissatisfied. [R.] Shak.

CONTENTLY
Con*tent"ly, adv.

Defn: In a contented manner. [Obs.]

CONTENTMENT
Con*tent"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. contentement. See Content, v. t.]

1. The state of being contented or satisfied; content.
Contentment without external honor is humility. Grew.
Godliness with contentment is great gain. 1 Tim. vi. 6.

2. The act or process of contenting or satisfying; as, the
contentment of avarice is impossible.

3. Gratification; pleasure; satisfaction. [Obs.]
At Paris the prince spent one whole day to give his mind some
contentment in viewing of a famous city. Sir H. Wotton.

CONTENTS
Con*tents ( or ; 277), n. pl.

Defn: See Content, n.

CONTERMINABLE
Con*ter"mi*na*ble, a.

Defn: Having the same bounds; terminating at the same time or place;
conterminous.
Love and life not conterminable. Sir H. Wotton.

CONTERMINAL
Con*ter"mi*nal, a. Etym: [LL. conterminalis.]

Defn: Conterminous.

CONTERMINANT
Con*ter"mi*nant, a.

Defn: Having the same limits; ending at the same time; conterminous.
Lamb.

CONTERMINATE
Con*ter"mi*nate, a. Etym: [L. conterminare to border upon, fr.
conterminus conterminous; con- + terminus border.]

Defn: Having the same bounds; conterminous. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

CONTERMINOUS
Con*ter"mi*nous, a. Etym: [L. conterminus. Cf. Conterminous.]

Defn: Having the same bounds, or limits; bordering upon; contiguous.
This conformed so many of them as were conterminous to the colonies
and garrisons, to the Roman laws. Sir M. Hale.

CONTERRANEAN; CONTERRANEOUS
Con`ter*ra"ne*an, Con`ter*ra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. conterraneus; con-
+ terra country.]

Defn: Of or belonging to the same country. Howell.

CONTESSERATION
Con*tes`ser*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. contesseratio, from contesserare to
contract friendship by means of the tesserae (friendship tokens).]

Defn: An assemblage; a collection; harmonious union. [Obs.]
That person of his [George Herbert], which afforded so unusual a
contesseration of elegancies. Oley.

CONTEST
Con*test", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contested; p.pr. & vb.n. Contesting.]
Etym: [F. contester, fr. L. contestari to call to witness, contestari
litem to introduce a lawsuit by calling witnesses, to bring an
action; con- + testari to be a witness, testic witness. See Testify.]

1. To make a subject of dispute, contention, litigation, or
emulation; to contend for; to call in question; to controvert; to
oppose; to dispute.
The people . . . contested not what was done. Locke.
Few philosophical aphorisms have been more frequenty repeated, few
more contested than this. J. D. Morell.

2. To strive earnestly to hold or maintain; to struggle to defend;
as, the troops contested every inch of ground.

3. (Law)

Defn: To make a subject of litigation; to defend, as a suit; to
dispute or resist; as a claim, by course of law; to controvert. To
contest an election. (Polit.) (a) To strive to be elected. (b) To
dispute the declared result of an election.

Syn.
 -- To dispute; controvert; debate; litigate; oppose; argue; contend.

CONTEST
Con*test", v. i.

Defn: To engage in contention, or emulation; to contend; to strive;
to vie; to emulate; -- followed usually by with.
The difficulty of an argument adds to the pleasure of contesting with
in, when there are hopes of victory. Bp. Burnet.
Of man, who dares in pomp with Jove contest Pope.

CONTEST
Con"test, n.

1. Earnest dispute; strife in argument; controversy; debate;
altercation.
Leave all noisy contests, all immodest clamors and brawling language.
I. Watts.

2. Earnest struggle for superiority, victory, defense, etc.;
competition; emulation; strife in arms; conflict; combat; encounter.
The late battle had, in effect, been a contest between one usurper
and another. Hallam.
It was fully expected that the contest there would be long and
fierce. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Conflict; combat; battle; encounter; shock; struggle; dispute;
altercation; debate; controvesy; difference; disagreement; strife.
 -- Contest, Conflict, Combat, Encounter. Contest is the broadest
term, and had originally no reference to actual fighting. It was, on
the contrary, a legal term signifying to call witnesses, and hence
came to denote first a struggle in argument, and then a struggle for
some common object between opposing parties, usually one of
considerable duration, and implying successive stages or acts.
Conflict denotes literally a close personal engagement, in which
sense it is applied to actual fighting. It is, however, more commonly
used in a figurative sense to denote strenuous or direct opposition;
as, a mental conflict; conflicting interests or passions; a conflict
of laws. An encounter is a direct meeting face to face. Usually it is
a hostile meeting, and is then very nearly coincident with conflict;
as, an encounter of opposing hosts. Sometimes it is used in a looser
sense; as, "this keen encounter of our wits." Shak. Combat is
commonly applied to actual fighting, but may be used figuratively in
reference to a strife or words or a struggle of feeling.

CONTESTABLE
Con*test"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. contestable.]

Defn: Capable of being contested; debatable.

CONTESTANT
Con*test"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. contestant.]

Defn: One who contests; an opponent; a litigant; a disputant; one who
claims that which has been awarded to another.

CONTESTATION
Con`tes*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. contestatio testimony: cf. F.
contestation a contesting.]

1. The act of contesting; emulation; rivalry; strife; dispute.
"Loverlike contestation." Milton.
After years spent in domestic, unsociable contestations, she found
means to withdraw. Clarendon.

2. Proof by witness; attestation; testimony. [Obs.]
A solemn contestation ratified on the part of God. Barrow.

CONTESTINGLY
Con*test"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a contending manner.

CONTEX
Con*tex, v. t.

Defn: To context. [Obs.] Boyle.

CONTEXT
Con*text", a. Etym: [L. contextus, p.p. of contexere to weave, to
unite; con- + texere to weave. See Text.]

Defn: Knit or woven together; close; firm. [Obs.]
The coats, without, are context and callous. Derham.

CONTEXT
Con"text, n. Etym: [L. contextus; cf. F. contexte .]

Defn: The part or parts of something written or printed, as of
Scripture, which precede or follow a text or quoted sentence, or are
so intimately associated with it as to throw light upon its meaning.
According to all the light that the contexts afford. Sharp.

CONTEXT
Con*text", v. t.

Defn: To knit or bind together; to unite closely. [Obs.] Feltham.
The whole world's frame, which is contexted only by commerce and
contracts. R. Junius.

CONTEXTURAL
Con*tex"tur*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to contexture or arrangement of parts; producing
contexture; interwoven. Dr. John Smith (1666).

CONTEXTURE
Con*tex"ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. contexture.]

Defn: The arrangement and union of the constituent parts of a thing;
a weaving together of parts; structural character of a thing; system;
constitution; texture.
That wonderful contexture of all created beings. Dryden.
He was not of any delicate contexture; his limbs rather sturdy than
dainty. Sir H. Wotton.

CONTEXTURED
Con*tex"tured, a.

Defn: Formed into texture; woven together; arranged; composed. [R.]
Carlyle.

CONTICENT
Con"ti*cent, a. Etym: [L. conticens, p.pr. of conticere; con- +
tacere to be silent.]

Defn: Silent. [R.] "The guests sit conticent." Thackeray.

CONTIGNATION
Con`tig*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. contignatio, fr. contignare to join
with beams; con- + tignum beam.]

1. The act or process of framing together, or uniting, as beams in a
fabric. Burke.

2. A framework or fabric, as of beams. Sir H. Wotton.

CONTIGUATE
Con*tig"u*ate, a. Etym: [LL. contiguatus.]

Defn: Contiguous; touching. [Obs.] Holland.

CONTIGUITY
Con`ti*gu"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. contiguit, LL. contiguitas.]

Defn: The state of being contiguous; intimate association; nearness;
proximity.
The convicinity and contiguity of the two parishes. T. Warton.

CONTIGUOUS
Con*tig"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. contiguus; akin to contigere to touch on
all sides. See Contingent.]

Defn: In actual contact; touching; also, adjacent; near; neighboring;
adjoining.
The two halves of the paper did not appear fully divided . . . but
seemed contiguous at one of their angles. Sir I. Newton.
Sees no contiguous palace rear its head. Goldsmith.
Contiguous angles. See Adjacent angles, under Angle.

Syn.
 -- Adjoining; adjacent. See Adjacent. - Con*tig"u*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Con*tig"u*ous*ness, n.

CONTINENCE; CONTINENCY
Con"ti*nence, Con"ti*nen*cy, n. Etym: [F. continence, L. continentia.
See Continent, and cf. Countenance.]

1. Self-restraint; self-command.
He knew what to say; he knew also, when to leave off, -- a continence
which is practiced by few writers. Dryden.

2. The restraint which a person imposes upon his desires and
passions; the act or power of refraining from indulgence of the
sexual appetite, esp. from unlawful indulgence; sometimes, moderation
in sexual indulgence.
If they [the unmarried and widows] have not continency, let them
marry. 1 Cor. vii. 9 (Rev. Ver. ).
Chastity is either abstinence or continence: abstinence is that of
virgins or widows; continence, that of married persons. Jer. Taylor.

3. Uninterrupted course; continuity. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

CONTINENT
Con"ti*nent, a. Etym: [L. continens, -entis, prop., p. pr. of
continere to hold together, to repress: cf. F. continent. See
Contain.]

1. Serving to restrain or limit; restraining; opposing. [Obs.] Shak.

2. Exercising restraint as to the indulgence of desires or passions;
temperate; moderate.
Have a continent forbearance till the speed of his rage goes slower.
Shak.

3. Abstaining from sexual intercourse; exercising restraint upon the
sexual appetite; esp., abstaining from illicit sexual intercourse;
chaste.
My past life
Hath been as continent, as chaste, as true,
As I am now unhappy. Shak.

4. Not interrupted; connected; continuous; as, a continent fever.
[Obs.]
The northeast part of Asia is, if not continent with the west side of
America, yet certainly it is the least disoined by sea of all that
coast. Berrewood.

CONTINENT
Con"ti*nent, n. Etym: [L. continens, prop., a holding together: cf.
F. continent. See Continent, a.]

1. That which contains anything; a receptacle. [Obs.]
The smaller continent which we call a pipkin. Bp. Kennet.

2. One of the grand divisions of land on the globe; the main land;
specifically (Phys. Geog.), a large body of land differing from an
island, not merely in its size, but in its structure, which is that
of a large basin bordered by mountain chains; as, the continent of
North America.

Note: The continents are now usually regarded as six in number: North
America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Australia. But
other large bodies of land are also reffered to as continents; as,
the Antarctic continent; the continent of Greenland. Europe, Asia,
and Africa are often grouped together as the Eastern Continent, and
North and South America as the Western Continent. The Continent, the
main land of Europe, as distinguished from the islands, especially
from England.

CONTINENTAL
Con`ti*nen"tal, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a continent.

2. Of or pertaining to the main land of Europe, in distinction from
the adjacent islands, especially England; as, a continental tour; a
continental coalition. Macaulay.
No former king had involved himself so frequently in the labyrinth of
continental alliances. Hallam.

3. (Amer. Hist.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the confederated colonies collectively, in
the time of the Revolutionary War; as, Continental money.
The army before Boston was designated as the Continental army, in
contradistinction to that under General Gage, which was called the
"Ministerial army." W. Irving.
Continental Congress. See under Congress.
 -- Continental system (Hist.), the blockade of Great Britain ordered
by Napoleon by the decree of Berlin, Nov. 21, 1806; the object being
to strike a blow at the maritime and commercial supremacy of Great
Britain, by cutting her off from all intercourse with the continent
of Europe.

CONTINENTAL
Con`ti*nen"tal, n. (Amer. Hist.)

Defn: A soldier in the Continental army, or a piece of the
Continental currency. See Continental, a., 3.

CONTINENTAL DRIVE
Con`ti*nen"tal drive. (Automobiles)

Defn: A transmission arrangement in which the longitudinal crank
shaft drives the rear wheels through a clutch, change-speed gear,
countershaft, and two parallel side chains, in order.

CONTINENTAL GLACIER
Continental glacier.

Defn: A broad ice sheet resting on a plain or plateau and spreading
outward from a central névé, or region of accumulation.

CONTINENTAL PRONUNCIATION
Continental pronunciation (of Latin and Greek.)

Defn: A method of pronouncing Latin and Greek in which the vowels
have their more familiar Continental values, as in German and
Italian, the consonants being pronounced mostly as in English. The
stricter form of this method of pronouncing Latin approaches the
Roman, the modified form the English, pronunciation. The Continental
method of Greek pronunciation is often called Erasmian.

CONTINENTAL SYSTEM
Continental system. (Hist.)

Defn: The system of commercial blockade aiming to exclude England
from commerce with the Continent instituted by the Berlin decree,
which Napoleon I. issued from Berlin Nov. 21, 1806, declaring the
British Isles to be in a state of blockade, and British subjects,
property, and merchandise subject to capture, and excluding British
ships from all parts of Europe under French dominion. The retaliatory
measures of England were followed by the Milan decree, issued by
Napoleon from Milan Dec. 17, 1807, imposing further restrictions, and
declaring every ship going to or from a port of England or her
colonies to be lawful prize.

CONTINENTLY
Con"ti*nent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a continent manner; chastely; moderately; temperately.

CONTINGENCE
Con*tin"gence, n.

Defn: See Contingency.

CONTINGENCY
Con*tin"gen*cy, n,; pl. Contingencies. Etym: [Cf. F. contingence.]

1. Union or connection; the state of touching or contact. "Point of
contingency." J. Gregory.

2. The quality or state of being contingent or casual; the
possibility of coming to pass.
Aristotle says we are not to build certain rules on the contingency
of human actions. South.

3. An event which may or may not occur; that which is possible or
probable; a fortuitous event; a chance.
The remarkable position of the queen rendering her death a most
important contingency. Hallam.

4. An adjunct or accessory. Wordsworth.

5. (Law)

Defn: A certain possible event that may or may not happen, by which,
when happening, some particular title may be affected.

Syn.
 -- Casualty; accident; chance.

CONTINGENT
Con*tin"gent, a. Etym: [L. contingens, -entis, p.pr. of contingere to
touch on all sides, to happen; con- + tangere to touch: cf. F.
contingent. See Tangent, Tact.]

1. Possible, or liable, but not certain, to occur; incidental;
casual.
Weighing so much actual crime against so much contingent advantage.
Burke.

2. Dependent on that which is undetermined or unknown; as, the
success of his undertaking is contingent upon events which he can not
control. "Uncertain and contingent causes." Tillotson.

3. (Law)

Defn: Dependent for effect on something that may or may not occur;
as, a contingent estate.
If a contingent legacy be left to any one when he attains, or if he
attains, the age of twenty-one. Blackstone.

CONTINGENT
Con*tin"gent, n.

1. An event which may or may not happen; that which is unforeseen,
undetermined, or dependent on something future; a contingency.
His understanding could almost pierce into future contingets. South.

2. That which falls to one in a division or apportionment among a
number; a suitable share; proportion; esp., a quota of troops.
From the Alps to the border of Flanders, contingents were required .
. . 200,000 men were in arms. Milman.

CONTINGENTLY
Con*tin"gent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a contingent manner; without design or foresight;
accidentally.

CONTINGENTNESS
Con*tin"gent*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being contingent; fortuitousness.

CONTINUABLE
Con*tin"u*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being continued [R.]

CONTINUAL
Con*tin"u*al, a. Etym: [OE. continuel, F. continuel. See Continue.]

1. Proceeding without interruption or cesstaion; continuous;
unceasing; lasting; abiding.
He that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast. Prov. xv. 15.

2. Occuring in steady and rapid succession; very frequent; often
repeated.
The eye is deligh by a continental succession of small landscapes. W.
Irwing.
Continual proportionals (Math.), quantities in continued proportion.
Brande & C.

Syn.
 -- Constant; prepetual; incessant; unceasing; uninterrupted;
unintermitted; continuous. See Constant, and Continuous.

CONTINUALLY
Con*tin"u*al*ly, adv.

1. Without cessation; unceasingly; continuously; as, the current
flows continually.
Why do not all animals continually increase in bigness Bentley.

2. In regular or repeated succession; very often.
Thou shalt eat bread at my table continually. 2 Sam. ix. 7.

CONTINUANCE
Con*tin"u*ance, n. Etym: [OF. continuance.]

1. A holding on, or remaining in a particular state; permanence, as
of condition, habits, abode, etc.; perseverance; constancy; duration;
stay.
Great plagues, and of long continuence. Deut. xxviii. 59.
Patient continuance i well-doing. Rom. ii. 7.

2. Uninterrupted succession; continuation; constant renewell;
perpetuation; propagation.
The brute immedistely regards his own preservation or the continuance
of his species. Addison.

3. A holding together; continuity. [Obs.] Bacon.

4. (Law)
(a) The adjournment of the proceedings in a cause from one day, or
from one stated term of a court, to another.
(b) The entry of such adjuornment and the grounds thereof on the
record.

CONTINUANT
Con*tin"u*ant, a.

Defn: Continuing; prolonged; sustained; as, a continuant sound.
 -- n.

Defn: A continuant sound; a letter whose sound may be prolonged.

CONTINUATE
Con*tin"u*ate, a. Etym: [L. continuatus, p.p. See Continue.]

1. Immediately united together; intimately connocted. [R.]
We are of Him and in Him, even as though our very flesh and bones
should be made continuate with his. Hooker.

2. Uninterrupted; unbroken; continual; continued.
An untirable and continuate goodness. Shak.

CONTINUATION
Con*tin`u*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. continuatio: cf. F. connuation.]

1. That act or state of continuing; the state of being continued;
uninterrupted extension or succession; prolongation; propagation.
Preventing the continuation of the royal line. Macaulay.

2. That which extends, increases, supplements, or carries on; as, the
continuation of a story.
My continuation of the version of Statius. Pope.

CONTINUATIVE
Con*tin"u*a*tive, n. Etym: [Cf. F. continuatif.]

1. (Logic)

Defn: A term or expression denoting continuance. [R.]
To these may be added continuatives; as, Rome remains to this day;
which includes, at least, two propositions, viz., Rome was, and Rome
is. I. Watts.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A word that continues the connection of sentences or subjects;
a connective; a conjunction.
Continuatives . . . consolidate sentences into one continuous whole.
Harris.

CONTINUATOR
Con*tin"u*a`tor, n. Etym: [Cf. F. continuateur.]

Defn: One who, or that which, continues; esp., one who continues a
series or a work; a continuer. Sir T. Browne.

CONTINUE
Con*tin"ue, v. i. [imp. & p.p. Continued; p.pr. & vb.n. Continuing.]
Etym: [F. continuer, L. continuare, -tinuatum, to connect, continue,
fr. continuus. See Continuous, and cf. Continuate.]

1. To remain ina given place or condition; to remain in connection
with; to abide; to stay.
Here to continue, and build up here A growing empire. Milton.
They continue with me now three days, and have nothing to eat. Matt.
xv. 32.

2. To be permanent or durable; to endure; to last.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue. 1 Sam. xiii. 14.

3. To be steadfast or constant in any course; to persevere; to abide;
to endure; to persist; to keep up or maintain a particular condition,
course, or series of actions; as, the army continued to advance.
If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed. John
viii. 31.

Syn.
 -- To persevere; persist. See Persevere.

CONTINUE
Con*tin"ue, v. t.

1. To unite; to connect. [Obs.]
the use of the navel is to continue the infant unto the mother. Sir
T. browne.

2. To protract or extend in duration; to preserve or persist in; to
cease not.
O continue thy loving kindness unto them that know thee. Ps. xxxvi.
10.
You know how to make yourself happy by only continuing such a life as
you have been long acustomed to lead. Pope.

3. To carry onward or extend; to prolong or produce; to add to or
draw out in length.
A bridge of wond'rous length, From hell continued, reaching th'
utmost orb of this frall world. Milton.

4. To retain; to suffer or cause to remain; as, the trustees were
continued; also, to suffer to live.
And how shall we continue Claudio. Shak.

CONTINUED
Con*tin"ued, p.p. & a.

Defn: Having extension of time, space, order of events, exertion of
energy, etc.; extended; protacted; uninterrupted; also, resumed after
interruption; extending through a succession of issues, session,
etc.; as, a continued story. "Continued woe." Jenyns. "Continued
succession." Locke. Continued bass (Mus.), a bass continued through
an entire piece of music, while the other parts of the harmony are
indicated by figures beneath the bass; the same as thorough bass or
figured bass; basso continuo. [It.] -- Continued fever (Med.), a
fever which presents no interruption in its course.
 -- Continued fraction (Math.), a fraction whose numerator is 1, and
whose denominator is a whole number plus a fraction whose numerator
is 1 and whose denominator is a whole number, plus a fraction, and so
on.
 -- Continued proportion (Math.), a proportion composed of two or
more equal ratios, in which the consequent of each preceding ratio is
the same with the antecedent of the folowing one; as, 4 : 8 : 8 : 16
:: 16 : 32.

CONTINUEDLY
Con*tin"u*ed*ly ( or , adv.

Defn: Continuously.

CONTINUER
Con*tin"u*er, n.

Defn: One who continues; one who has the power of perseverance or
persistence. "Indulgent continuers in sin." Hammond.
I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and so good a
continuer. Shak.

CONTINUITY
Con`ti*nu"i*ty, n.; pl. Continuities. Etym: [L. continuitas: cf. F.
continuit. See Continuous.]

Defn: the state of being continuous; uninterupted connection or
succession; close union of parts; cohesion; as, the continuity of
fibers. Grew.
The sight would be tired, if it were attracted by a continuity of
glittering objects. Dryden.
Law of continuity (Math. & Physics), the principle that nothing
passes from one state to another without passing through all the
intermediate states.
 -- Solution of continuity. (Math.) See under Solution.

CONTINUO
Con*ti"nu*o ( or , n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Basso continuo, or continued bass.

CONTINUOUS
Con*tin"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. continuus, fr. continere to hold
together. See Continent.]

1. Without break, cessation, or interruption; without intervening
space or time; uninterrupted; unbroken; continual; unceasing;
constant; continued; protracted; extended; as, a continuous line of
railroad; a continuous current of electricity.
he can hear its continuous murmur. Longfellow.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Not deviating or varying from uninformity; not interrupted; not
joined or articulated. Continuous brake (Railroad), a brake which is
attached to each car a train, and can be caused to operate in all the
cars simultaneously from a point on any car or on the engine.
 -- Continuous impost. See Impost.

Syn.
 -- Continuous, Continual. Continuous is the stronger word, and
denotes that the continuity or union of parts is absolute and
uninterrupted; as, a continuous sheet of ice; a continuous flow of
water or of argument. So Daniel Webster speaks of "a continuous and
unbroken strain of the martial airs of England." Continual, in most
cases, marks a close and unbroken succession of things, rather than
absolute continuity. Thus we speak of continual showers, implying a
repetition with occasional interruptions; we speak of a person as
liable to continual calls, or as subject to continual applications
for aid, etc. See Constant.

CONTINUOUSLY
Con*tin"u*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a continuous maner; without interruption.
 -- Con*tin"u*ous*ness, n.

CONTLINE
Cont"line`, n.

1. (Ropemaking)

Defn: The space between the strands on the outside of a rope. Knight.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The space between the bilges of two casks stowed side by side.

CONTORNIATE; CONTORNIATE
Con*tor"ni*ate, Con*tor"ni*a`te, n., Etym: [It. contorniato, p.pr. of
contorniare to make a circuit or outline, fr. contorno circuit,
outline. See Contour.] (Numis.)

Defn: A species of medal or medallion of bronze, having a deep furrow
on the contour or edge; -- supposed to have been struck in the days
of Constantine and his successors. R. S. Poole.

CONTORSION
Con*tor"sion, n.

Defn: See Contortion.

CONTORT
Con*tort", v. t. Etym: [L. contortus, p.p. of contorquere to twist;
con- + torquere to twist. See Torture.]

Defn: To twist, or twist together; to turn awry; to bend; to distort;
to wrest.
The vertebral arteries are variously contorted. Ray.
Kant contorted the term category from the proper meaning of
attributed. Sir W. Hamilton.

CONTORTED
Con*tort"ed, a.

1. Twisted, or twisted together. "A contorted chain of icicles."
Massinger.

2. (Bot.)
(a) Twisted back upon itself, as some parts of plants.
(b) Arranged so as to overlap each other; as, petals in contorted or
convolute æstivation.

CONTORTION
Con*tor"tion, n. Etym: [L. contortio: cf. F. contorsion. See Contort,
and cf. Torsion.]

Defn: A twisting; a writhing; wry motion; a twist; as, the contortion
of the muscles of the face. Swift.
All the contortions of the sibyl, without the inspiration. Burke.

CONTORTIONIST
Con*tor"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who makes or practices contortions.

CONTORTIVE
Con*tor"tive, a.

Defn: Expressing contortion.

CONTORTUPLICATE
Con`tor*tu"pli*cate, a. Etym: [L. contortuplicatus; contortus
contorted + plicare to fold.] (Bot.)

Defn: Plaited lengthwise and twisted in addition, as the bud of the
morning-glory. Gray.

CONTOUR
Con*tour", n. Etym: [F. contour, fr. contourner to mark the outlines;
con- + tourner to turn. See Turn.]

1. The outline of a figure or body, or the line or lines representing
such an outline; the line that bounds; periphery.
Titian's coloring and contours. A. Drummond.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: The outline of a horizontal section of the ground, or of works
of fortification. Contour feathers (Zoöl.), those feathers that form
the general covering of a bird.
 -- Contour of ground (Surv.), the outline of the surface of ground
with respect to its undulation, etc.
 -- Contour line (Topographical Suv.), the line in which a horizontal
plane intersects a portion of ground, or the corresponding line in a
map or chart.

CONTOURNE
Con`tour`ne, a. Etym: [F., p.p. of contourner to twist.] (Her.)

Defn: Turned in a direction which is not the usual one; -- said of an
animal turned to the sinister which is usually turned to the dexter,
or the like.

CONTOURNIATED
Con*tour"ni*a`ted, a. Etym: [Cf. Contorniate.] (Numis.)

Defn: Having furrowed edges, as if turned in a lathe.

CONTRA
Con"tra.

Defn: A Latin adverb and preposition, signifying against, contrary,
in opposition, etc., entering as a prefix into the composition of
many English words. Cf. Counter, adv. & pref.

CONTRABAND
Con"tra*band, n. Etym: [It. contrabando; contra + bando ban,
proclamation: cf. F. contrebande. See Ban an edict.]

1. Illegal or prohobited traffic.
Persons the most bound in duty to prevent contraband, and the most
interested in the seizures. Burke.

2. Goods or merchandise the importation or exportation of which is
forbidden.

3. A negro slave, during the Civil War, escaped to, or was brought
within, the Union lines. Such slave was considered contraband of war.
[U.S.] Contraband of war, that which, according to international law,
cannot be supplied to a hostile belligerent except at the risk of
seizure and condemnation by the aggrieved belligerent. Wharton.

CONTRABAND
Con"tra*band, a.

Defn: Prohibited or excluded by law or treaty; forbidden; as,
contraband goods, or trade.
The contraband will always keep pace, in some measure, with the fair
trade. Burke.

CONTRABAND
Con"tra*band, v. t.

1. To import illegaly, as prohibited goods; to smuggle. [Obs.]
Johnson.

2. To declare prohibited; to forbid. [Obs.]
The law severly contrabands Our taking business of men's hands.
Hudibras.

CONTRABANDISM
Con"tra*band*ism, n.

Defn: Traffic in contraband gods; smuggling.

CONTRABANDIST
Con"tra*band`ist, n.

Defn: One who traffic illegaly; a smuggler.

CONTRABASS
Con`tra*bass"

Defn: , n. (Mus.) Double bass; -- applied to any instrument of the
same deep range as the stringed double bass; as, the contrabass
ophicleide; the cotrabass tuba or bombardon.

CONTRABASSO
Con`tra*bas"so, n. Etym: [It. contrabasso.] (Mus.)

Defn: The largest kind of bass viol. See Violone.

CONTRACT
Con*tract", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contracted; p.pr. & vb.n.
Contracting.] Etym: [L. contractus, p.p. of contrahere to contract;
con- + trahere to draw: cf. F. contracter. See Trace, and cf.
Contract, n.]

1. To draw together or nearer; to reduce to a less compass; to
shorten, narrow, or lesen; as, to contract one's shpere of action.
In all things desuetude doth contract and narrow our faculties. Dr.
H. More.

2. To draw together so as to wrinkle; to knit.
Thou didst contract and purse thy brow. Shak.

3. To bring on; to incur; to acquire; as, to contract a habit; to
contract a debt; to contract a disease.
Each from each contract new strength and light. Pope.
Such behavior we contract by having much conversed with persons of
high statiSwift.

4. To enter into, with mutual obligations; to make a bargain or
covenant for.
We have contracted an inviolable amity, peace, and lague with the
aforesaid queen. Hakluyt.
Many persons . . . had contracted marriage within the degrees of
consanguinity . . . prohibited by law. Strype.

5. To betroth; to affiance.
The truth is, she and I, long since contracted, Are now so sure, that
nothing can dissolve us. Shak.

6. (Gram.)

Defn: To shorten by omitting a letter or letters or by reducing two
or more vowels or syllables to one.

Syn.
 -- To shorten; abridge; epitomize; narrow; lessen; condense; reduce;
confine; incur; assume.

CONTRACT
Con*tract", v. i.

1. To be drawn together so as to be diminished in size or extent; to
shrink; to be reduced in compass or in duration; as, iron contracts
in cooling; a rope contracts when wet.
Years contracting to a moment. Wordsworth.

2. To make an agreement; to covenant; to agree; to bargain; as, to
contract for carrying the mail.

CONTRACT
Con"tract, a.

Defn: Contracted: as, a contract verb. Goodwin.

CONTRACT
Con*tract", a. Etym: [L. contractus, p.p.]

Defn: Contracted; affianced; betrothed. [Obs.] Shak.

CONTRACT
Con"tract, n. Etym: [L. contractus, fr. contrahere: cf. F. contrat,
formerly also contract.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The agreement of two or more persons, upon a sufficient
consideration or cause, to do, or to abstain from doing, some act; an
agreement in which a party undertakes to do, or not to do, a
particular thing; a formal bargain; a compact; an interchange of
legal rights. Wharton.

2. A formal writing which contains the agreement of parties, with the
terms and conditions, and which serves as a proof of the obligation.

3. The act of formally betrothing a man and woman.
This is the the night of the contract. Longwellow.

Syn.
 -- Covenant; agreement; compact; stipulation; bargain; arrangement;
obligation. See Covenant.

CONTRACTED
Con*tract"ed, a.

1. Drawn together; shrunken; wrinkled; narrow; as, a contracted brow;
a contracted noun.

2. Narrow; illiberal; selfish; as, a contracted mind; contracted
views.

3. Bargained for; betrothed; as, a contracted peace.
Inquire me out contracted bachelors. Shak.

CONTRACTEDNESS
Con*tract"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being contracted; narrowness; meannes;
selfishness.

CONTRACTIBILITY
Con*tract`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capability of being contracted; quality of being contractible;
as, the contractibiliy and dilatability of air. Arbuthnot.

CONTRACTIBLE
Con*tract"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of contraction.
Small air bladders distable and contractible. Arbuthnot.

CONTRACTIBLENESS
Con*tract"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Contractibility.

CONTRACTILE
Con*tract"ile, a. Etym: [Cf. F. contractile.]

Defn: tending to contract; having the power or property of
contracting, or of shrinking into shorter or smaller dimensions; as,
the contractile tissues.
The heart's contractile force. H. Brooke.
Each cilium seems to be composed of contractile substance. Hixley.
Contractile vacuole (Zoöl.), a pulsating cavity in the interior of a
protozoan, supposed to be excretory in function. There may be one,
two, or more.

CONTRACTILITY
Con`trac*til"i*ty, n.

1. The quality or property by which bodies shrink or contract.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The power possessed by the fibers of living muscle of
contracting or shortening.

Note: When subject to the will, as in the muscles of locomotion, such
power is called voluntary contractility; when not controlled by the
will, as in the muscles of the heart, it is involuntary
contractility.

CONTRACTION
Con*trac"tion, n. Etym: [L. contractio: cf. F. contraction.]

1. The act or process of contracting, shortening, or shrinking; the
state of being contracted; as, contraction of the heart, of the pupil
of the eye, or of a tendion; the contraction produced by cold.

2. (Math.)

Defn: The process of shortening an operation.

3. The act of incurring or becoming subject to, as liabilities,
obligation, debts, etc.; the process of becoming subject to; as, the
contraction of a disease.

4. Something contracted or abbreviated, as a word or phrase; -- as,
plenipo for plenipotentiary; crim. con. for criminal conversation,
etc.

5. (Gram.)

Defn: The shortening of a word, or of two words, by the omission of a
letter or letters, or by reducing two or more vowels or syllables to
one; as, ne'er for never; can't for can not; don't for do not; it's
for it is.

6. A marriage contract. [Obs.] Shak.

CONTRACTIVE
Con*tract"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to contract; having the property or power or power of
contracting.

CONTRACTOR
Con*tract"or, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who contracts; one of the parties to a bargain; one who
covenants to do anything for another; specifically, one who contracts
to perform work on a rather large scale, at a certain price or rate,
as in building houses or making a railroad.

CONTRACT SYSTEM
Con"tract sys"tem.

1. The sweating system.

2.  The system of employing convicts by selling their labor (to be
performed inside the prison) at a fixed price per day to contractors
who are allowed to have agents in the prison to superintend the work.

CONTRACT TABLET
Con"tract tablet. (Babylonian & Assyrian Antiq.)

Defn: A clay tablet on which was inscribed a contract, for safe
keeping.  Such tablets were inclosed in an outer case (often called
the envelope), on which was inscribed a duplicate of the inscription
on the inclosed tablet.

CONTRACTURE
Con*trac"ture, n. Etym: [L. contractura a drawing together.] (Med.)

Defn: A state of permanent rigidity or contraction of the muscles,
generally of the flexor muscles.

CONTRADANCE
Con"tra*dance`, n. Etym: [Pref. contra- + dance: cf. F. contrdance.
Cf. Country-dance.]

Defn: A dance in which the partners are arranged face to face, or in
opposite lines.

CONTRADICT
Con`tra*dict", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contradicted; p.pr. & vb.n
Contradicting.] Etym: [L. contradictus, p.p. of contradicere to speak
against; contra + dicere to speak. See Diction.]

1. To assert the contrary of; to oppose in words; to take issue with;
to gainsay; to deny the truth of, as of a statement or a speaker; to
impugn.
Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself, And say it is not so. Shak.
The future can not contradict the past. Wordsworth.

2. To be contrary to; to oppose; to resist. [Obs.]
No truth can contradict another truth. Hooker.
A greater power than we can contradict Hath thwarted our intents.
Shak.

CONTRADICT
Con`tra*dict, v. i.

Defn: To oppose in words; to gainsay; to deny, or assert the contrary
of, something.
They . . . spake against those things which were spoken by Paul,
contradicting and blaspheming. Acts xiii. 45.

CONTRADICTABLE
Con`tra*dict"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being contradicting.

CONTRADICTER
Con`tra*dict"er, n.

Defn: one who contradicts. Swift.

CONTRADICTION
Con`tra*dic"tion, n. Etym: [L. contradictio answer, objection: cf. F.
contradiction.]

1. An assertion of the contrary to what has been said or affirmed;
denial of the truth of a statement or assertion; contrary
declaration; gainsaying.
His fair demands Shall be accomplished without contradiction. Shak.

2. Direct opposition or repugnancy; inconsistency; incongruity or
contrariety; one who, or that which, is inconsistent.
can be make deathless death That were to make Strange contradiction.
Milton.
We state our experience and then we come to a manly resolution of
acting in contradiction to it. Burke.
Both parts of a contradiction can not possibly be true. Hobbes.
Of contradictions infinite the slave. Wordsworth.
Principle of contradiction (Logic), the axiom or law of thought that
a thing cannot be and not be at the same time, or a thing must either
be or not be, or the same attribute can not at the same time be
affirmed and and denied of the same subject. It develops itself in
three specific forms which have been called the "Three Logical
Axioms." First. "A is A." Second, "A is not Not-A" Third, "Everything
is either A or Not-A."

CONTRADICTIONAL
Con`tra*dic"tion*al, a.

Defn: Contradictory; inconsistent; opposing. [R.] Milton.

CONTRADICTIOUS
Con`tra*dic"tious, a.

1. Filled with contradictions; inconsistent. [Obs.]

2. Inclined to contradict or cavil [Obs.] Sharp.
 -- Con`tra*dic"tious*ness, n. Norris.

CONTRADICTIVE
Con`tra*dict"ive, a.

Defn: Contradictory; inconsistent.
 -- Con`tra*dict"ive*ly, adv..

CONTRADICTOR
Con`tra*dict"or, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A contradicter.

CONTRADICTORILY
Con`tra*dict"o*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a contradictory manner. Sharp.

CONTRADICTORINESS
Con"tra*dict`o*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being contradictory; opposition; inconsistency.
J. Whitaker.

CONTRADICTORY
Con`tra*dict"o*ry, a. Etym: [LL. contradictorius: cf. F.
contradictoire.]

1. Affirming the contrary; implying a denial of what has been
asserted; also, mutually contradicting; inconsistent. "Contradictory
assertions." South.

2. Opposing or opposed; repugnant.
Schemes . . . contradictory to common sense. Addisn.

CONTRADICTORY
Con`tra*dict"o*ry, n.; pl. Contradictories (.

1. A proposition or thing which denies or opposes another;
contrariety.
It is common with princes to will contradictories. Bacon.

2. pl. (Logic)

Defn: propositions with the same terms, but opposed to each other
both in quality and quantity.

CONTRADISTINCT
Con`tra*dis*tinct", a.

Defn: Distinguished by opposite qualities. J. Goodwin.

CONTRADISTINCTION
Con`tra*dis*tinc"tion, n.

Defn: Distinction by contrast.
That there are such things as sins of infirmity in contradistinction
to those of presumption is not to be questioned. South.

CONTRADISTINCTIVE
Con`tra*dis*tinc"tive, a.

Defn: having the quality of contradistinction; distinguishing by
contrast.
 -- Con`tra*dis*tinc"tive, n.

CONTRADISTINGUISH
Con`tra*dis*tin"guish (; 144), v. t. [imp & p. p.
Contradistinguished; p. pr. & vb. n. Contradistinguishing.]

Defn: To distinguish by a contrast of opposite qualities.
These are our complex ideas of soul and body, as contradistinguished.
Locke.

CONTRAFAGETTO
Con`tra*fa*get"to, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: The double bassoon, an octave deeper than the bassoon.

CONTRAFISSURE
Con`tra*fis"sure, n. (Med.)

Defn: A fissure or fracture on the side opposite to that which
received the blow, or at some distance from it. Coxe.

CONTRAHENT
Con"tra*hent, a. Etym: [L. contrahens, p.pr. See Contract.]

Defn: Entering into covenant; contracting; as, contrahent parties.
[Obs.] Mede.

CONTRAINDICANT
Con"tra*in"di*cant, n. (Med.)

Defn: Something, as a symptom, indicating that the usual mode of
treatment is not to be followed. Burke.

CONTRAINDICATE
Con"tra*in*"di*cate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contraindicated; p.pr. &
vb.n. Contraindicating.] (Med.)

Defn: To indicate, as by a symptom, some method of treatment contrary
to that which the general tenor of the case would seem to require.
Contraindicating symptoms must be observed. Harvey.

CONTRAINDICATION
Con"tra*in`di*ca"tion, n. (med.)

Defn: An indication or symptom which forbids the method of treatment
usual in such cases.

CONTRALTO
Con*tral"to ( or , n. Etym: [It., fr. contra + alto. See Alto.]
(Mus.)
(a) The part sung by the highest male or lowest female voices; the
alto or counter tenor.
(b) the voice or singer performing this part; as, her voice is a
contralto; she is a contralto.

Note: The usual range of the contralto voice is from G, below middle
C, to the C above that; though exceptionally it embraces two octaves.

CONTRALTO
Con*tral"to ( or , a. (Mus.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a contralto, or to the part in music called
contralto; as, a contralto voice.

CONTRAMURE
Con"tra*mure, n. Etym: [Cf. Countermure.] (fort.)

Defn: An outer wall. [Obs.] Chambers.

CONTRANATURAL
Con"tra*nat"u*ral, a. Etym: [Cf. Counternatural.]

Defn: Opposed to or against nature; unnatural. [R.] Bp. Rust.

CONTRAPLEX
Con"tra*plex, a.  [Contra- + -plex as in duplex.] (Teleg.)

Defn: Pertaining to the sending of two messages in opposite
directions at the same time.

CONTRAPOSITION
Con"tra*po*si"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. contra- + position: cf. f.
conterposition.]

1. A placing over against; opposite position. [Obs.] F. Potter.

2. (Logic)

Defn: A so-called immediate inference which consists in denying the
original subject of the contradictory predicate; e.g.: Every S is P;
therefore, no Not-P is S.

CONTRAPTION
Con*trap"tion, n.

Defn: A contrivance; a new-fangled device; -- used scornfully.
[Colloq. or Dial.] -- Con*trap"tious (#), a.

We all remember some of the extraordinary contraptions which have
been thus evolved and put upon the market.
F. M. Ware.

CONTRAPUNTAL
Con`tra*pun"tal, a. Etym: [It. contrappunto counterpoint. See
Counterpoint.] (Mus.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or according to the rules of, counterpoint.

CONTRAPUNTIST
Con`tra*pun"tist, n. Etym: [It. contrappuntista.] (Mus.)

Defn: One skilled in counterpoint. L. Mason.

CONTRAREMONSTRANT
Con"tra*re*mon"strant, n.

Defn: One who remonstrates in opposition or answer to a remonstraint.
[R.]
They did the synod wrong to make this distinction of
contraremonstrants and remonstrants. Hales.

CONTRARIANT
Con*tra"ri*ant, a. Etym: [LL. contrarians, p.pr. of contrariare to
oppose, fr. L. contrarius: cf. F. contrariant, p.pr. of contrarier to
contradict. See Contrary.]

Defn: Contrary; opposed; antagonistic; inconsistent; contradictory.
[R.]
The struggles of contrariant factions. Coleridge.

CONTRARIANTLY
Con*tra"ri*ant*ly, adv.

Defn: Contrarily. [Obs.]

CONTRARIES
Con"tra*ries ( or , n. pl. Etym: [Pl. of Contrary, n.] (Logic)

Defn: Propositions which directly and destructively contradict each
other, but of which the falsehood of one does not establish the truth
of the other.
If two universals differ in quality, they are contraries; as, every
vine is a tree; no vine is a tree. These can never be both true
together; but they may be both false. I. Watts.

CONTRARIETY
Con`tra*ri"e*ty n.; pl. Contrarieties. Etym: [L. contrarietas: cf. F.
contrariété.]

1. The state or quality of being contrary; opposition; repugnance;
disagreement; antagonism.
There is a contrariety between those things that conscience inclines
to, and those that entertain the senses. South.

2. Something which is contrary to, or inconsistent with, something
else; an inconsistency.
How can these contrarieties agree Shak.

Syn.
 -- Inconsistency; discrepancy; repugnance.

CONTRARILY
Con"tra*ri*ly or

Defn: (adv. In a contrary manner; in opposition; on the other side;
in opposite ways.

CONTRARINESS
Con"tra*ri*ness, n.

Defn: state or quality of being contrary; opposition; inconsistency;
contrariety; perverseness; obstinancy.

CONTRARIOUS
Con*tra"ri*ous, a. Etym: [LL. contrariosus: cf. OF. contrarios
contralius.]

Defn: Showing contrariety; repugnant; perverse. [Archaic] Milton.
She flew contrarious in the face of God. Mrs. Browning.

CONTRARIOUSLY
Con*tra"ri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: Contrarily; oppositely. Shak.

CONTRARIWISE
Con"tra*ri*wise ( or , adv.

1. On the contrary; oppositely; on the other hand.
Not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing; but
contrariwise, blessing. 1 Pet. iii. 9.

2. In a contrary order; conversely.
Everything that acts upon the fluids must, at the same time, act upon
the solids, and contrariwise. Arbuthnot.

CONTRAROTATION
Con`tra*ro*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Circular motion in a direction contrary to some other circular
motion.

CONTRARY
Con"tra*ry ( or ; 48), a. Etym: [OE. contrarie, contraire, F.
contraire, fr. L. contrarius, fr. contra. See Contra-.]

1. Opposite; in an opposite direction; in opposition; adverse; as,
contrary winds.
And if ye walk contrary unto me, and will not hearken unto me. Lev.
xxvi. 21.
We have lost our labor; they are gone a contrary way. Shak.

2. Opposed; contradictory; repugnant; inconsistent.
Fame, if not double-faced, is double mouthed, And with contrary blast
proclaims most deeds. Milton.
The doctrine of the earth's motion appeared to be contrary to the
sacred Scripture. Whewell.

3. Given to opposition; perverse; forward; wayward; as, a contrary
disposition; a contrary child.

4. (Logic)

Defn: Affirming the opposite; so opposed as to destroy each other;
as, contrary propositions. Contrary motion (Mus.), the progression of
parts in opposite directions, one ascending, the other descending.

Syn.
 -- Adverse; repugnant; hostile; inimical; discordant; inconsistent.

CONTRARY
Con"tra*ry, n.; pl. Contraries (.

1. A thing that is of contrary or opposite qualities.
No contraries hold more antipathy Than I and such a knave. Shak.

2. An opponent; an enemy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. the opposite; a proposition, fact, or condition incompatible with
another; as, slender proofs which rather show the contrary. See
Converse, n., 1. Locke.

4. (Logic)

Defn: See Contraries. On the contrary, in opposition; on the other
hand. Swift.
 -- To the contrary, to an opposite purpose or intent; on the other
side. "They did it, not for want of instruction to the contrary." Bp.
Stillingfleet.

CONTRARY
Con"tra*ry, v. t. Etym: [F. contrarier. See Contrary, a.]

Defn: To contradict or oppose; to thwart. [Obs.]
I was advised not to contrary the king. Bp. Latimer.

CONTRAST
Con*trast", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Contrasted; p.pr. & vb.n.
Contrasting.] Etym: [F. contraster, LL. contrastare to resist,
withstand, fr. L. contra + stare to stand. See Stand.]

Defn: To stand in opposition; to exhibit difference, unlikeness, or
opposition of qualities.
The joints which divide the sandstone contrast finely with the
divisional planes which separate the basalt into pillars. Lyell.

CONTRAST
Con*trast", v. t.

1. To set in opposition, or over against, in order to show the
differences between, or the comparative excellences and defects of;
to compare by difference or contrariety of qualities; as, to contrast
the present with the past.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: To give greater effect to, as to a figure or other object, by
putting it in some relation of opposition to another figure or
object.
the figures of the groups must not be all on side . . . but must
contrast each other by their several position. Dryden.

CONTRAST
Con"trast, n. Etym: [F. contraste: cf. It. contrasto.]

1. The act of contrasting, or the state of being contrasted;
comparison by contrariety of qualities.
place the prospect of the soul In sober contrast with reality.
Wordsworth.

2. Opposition or dissimilitude of things or qualities; unlikeness,
esp. as shown by juxtaposition or comparison.
The contrasts and resemblances of the seasons. Whewell.

3. (Fine Arts)

Defn: The opposition of varied forms, colors, etc., which by such
juxtaposition more vividly express each other's pecularities.
Fairholt.

CONTRASTIMULANT
Con`tra*stim"u*lant, a.

Defn: Counteracting the effects of stimulants; relating to a course
of medical treatment based on a theory of contrastimulants.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: An agent which counteracts the effect of a stimulant.

CONTRATE
Con"trate, a. Etym: [See Contra-.]

Defn: Having cogs or teeth projecting parallel to the axis, instead
of radiating from it. [R.] Contrate wheel. See Crown wheel.

CONTRATENOR
Con"tra*ten`or, n. Etym: [Cf. Counter tenor.] (Mus.)

Defn: Counter tenor; contralto.

CONTRAVALLATION
Con`tra*val*la"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. contra- + vallation: cf. F.
contrevallation. Cf. Countervallation.] (Fort.)

Defn: A trench guarded with a parapet, constructed by besiegers, to
secure themselves and check sallies of the besieged.

CONTRAVENE
Con`tra*vene", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contravened; p.pr. & vb.n.
Contravening.] Etym: [LL. contravenire; L. contra + venire to come:
cf. F. contrevenir. See Come.]

1. To meet in the way of opposition; to come into conflict with; to
oppose; to contradict; to obstruct the operation of; to defeat.
So plain a proposition . . . was not likely to be contravened.
Southey.

2. To violate; to nullify; to be inconsistent with; as, to contravene
a law.
Laws that place the subjects in such a state contravene the first
principles of the compact of authority. Johnson.

Syn.
 -- To contradict; set aside; nullify; defeat; cross; obstruct;
baffle; thwart.

CONTRAVENER
Con`tra*ven"er, n.

Defn: One who contravenes.

CONTRAVENTION
Con`tra*ven"tion, n. Etym: [Cf.F. contravention.]

Defn: The act of contravening; opposition; obstruction;
transgression; violation.
Warrants in contravention of the acts of Parliament. Macaulay.
In contravention of all his marriage stipulations. Motley.

CONTRAVERSION
Con`tra*ver"sion, n.

Defn: A turning to the opposite side; antistrophe. Congreve.

CONTRAYERVA
Con`tra*yer"va, n. Etym: [Sp. contrayerba, literally, a counter herb,
hence, an antidote for poison, fr. l. contra + herba herb.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Dorstenia (D. Contrayerva), a South American
plant, the aromatic root of which is sometimes used in medicine as a
gentle stimulant and tonic.

CONTRECOUP
Con`tre*coup", n. Etym: [F., fr. contre (L. contra) + coup a blow.]
(med.)

Defn: A concussion or shock produced by a blow or other injury, in a
part or region opposite to that at which the blow is received, often
causing rupture or disorganisation of the parts affected.

CONTREDANSE
Con"tre*danse`, n. [Cf. F. contredanse (fr. E. Country-dance). ]

1.
 (a) A dance in which the partners are arranged face to face, or in
opposite lines.
 (b) The quadrille. [Obs.]

2.  (Music) A piece of music in the rhythm of such a dance.

CONTRETEMPS
Con`tre*temps", n. Etym: [F., fr. contre (L. conta) + temps time, fr.
L. tempus.]

Defn: An unexpected and untoward accident; something inopportune or
embarassing; a hitch.
In this unhappy contretemps. De Quincey.

CONTRIBUTABLE
Con*trib"u*ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being contributed.

CONTRIBUTARY
Con*trib"u*ta*ry, a.

1. Contributory. [R.]

2. Tributary; contributing. [R.]
It was situated on the Ganges, at the place where this river received
a contributary stream. D'Anville (Trans. ).

CONTRIBUTE
Con*trib"ute, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contributed; p.pr. & vb.n.
Contributing.] Etym: [L. contributus, p.p. of contribuere to bring
together, to add; con- + tribuere to grant, impart. See Tribute.]

Defn: To give or grant i common with others; to give to a common
stock or for a common purpose; to furnish or suply in part; to give
(money or other aid) for a specified object; as, to contribute food
or fuel for the poor.
England contributes much more than any other of the allies. Addison.

CONTRIBUTE
Con*trib"ute, v. i.

1. To give a part to a common stock; to lend assistance or aid, or
give something, to a common purpose; to have a share in any act or
effect.
We are engaged in war; the secretary of state calls upon the colonies
to contribute. Burke.

2. To give or use one's power or influence for any object; to assist.
These men also contributed to obstruct the progress of wisdom.
Goldsmith.

CONTRIBUTION
Con`tri*bu"tion, n. Etym: [L. contributio: cf. F. contribution.]

1. The act of contributing.

2. That which is contributed; -- either the portion which an
individual furnishes to the common stock, or the whole which is
formed by the gifts of individuals.
A certain contribution for the poor saints which are at jerusalem.
Rom. xv. 26.
Aristotle's actual contributions to the physical sciences. Whewell.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: An irregular and arbitrary imposition or tax leved on the
people of a town or country.
These sums, . . . and the forced contributions paid by luckless
peasants, enabled him to keep his straggling troops together. Motley.

4. (Law)

Defn: Payment, by each of several jointly liable, of a share in a
loss suffered or an amount paid by one of their number for the common
benefit.

CONTRIBUTIONAL
Con`tri*bu"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or furnishing, a contribution.

CONTRIBUTION PLAN
Con`tri*bu"tion plan. (Life Insurance)

Defn: A plan of distributing surplus by giving to each policy the
excess of premiums and interest earned thereon over the expenses of
management, cost of insurance, and the policy value at the date of
computation. This excess is called the contribution of the policy.

CONTRIBUTIVE
Con*trib"u*tive, a.

Defn: Contributing, or tending to contribute. Fuller.

CONTRIBUTOR
Con*trib"u*tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, contributes; specifically, one who
writes articles for a newspaper or magazine.

CONTRIBUTORY
Con*trib"u*to*ry, a.

Defn: Contributing to the same stock or purpose; promoting the same
end; bringing assistance to some joint design, or increase to some
common stock; contributive. Milton.
Bonfires of contributory wood. Chapman.
Contributory negligence (Law), negligence by an injured party, which
combines with the negligence of the injurer in producing the injury,
and which bars recovery when it is the proximate cause of the injury.
Wharton.

CONTRIBUTORY
Con*trib"u*to*ry, n.; pl. Contributories (.

Defn: One who contributes, or is liable to be called upon to
contribute, as toward the discharge of a common indebtedness. Abbott.

CONTRIST
Con*trist", v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. contrister. See Contristate.]

Defn: To make sad. [Obs.]
To deject and contrist myself. Sterne.

CONTRISTATE
Con*tris"tate, v. t. & i. Etym: [L. contristatus, p.p. of contristare
to sadden; con- + tristis sad.]

Defn: To make sorrowful. [Obs.] Bacon.

CONTRITE
Con"trite, a. Etym: [L. contritus bruised, p. p. of contrere to
grind, bruise; con- + terere to rub, grind: cf. F. contrit See
Trite.]

1. Thoroughly bruised or broken. [Obs.]

2. Broken down with grief and penitence; deeply sorrowful for sin
because it is displeasing to God; humbly and thoroughly penitent.
A contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. Ps. li. 17.
Be penitent, and for thy fault contrite. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Penitent; repentant; humble; sorrowful.

CONTRITE
Con"trite, n.

Defn: A contrite person. Hooker.

CONTRITE
Con"trite, v.

Defn: In a contrite manner.

CONTRITENESS
Con"trite`ness, n.

Defn: Deep sorrow and penitence for sin; contrition.

CONTRITION
Con*tri"tion, n. Etym: [F. contrition, L. contritio.]

1. The act of grinding or ribbing to powder; attrition; friction;
rubbing. [Obs.]
The breaking of their parts into less parts by contrition. Sir I.
Newton.

2. The state of being contrite; deep sorrow and repentance for sin,
because sin is displeasing to God; humble penitence; through
repentance.
My future days shall be one whole contrition. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- repentance; penitence; humiliation; compunction; self-reproach;
remorse.
 -- Contrition, Attrition, repentance.
 -- Contrition is deep sorrow and self-condemnation, with through
repetance for sin because it is displeasing to God, and implies a
feeling of love toward God. Attrition is sorrow for sin, or imperfect
repentance produced by fear of punishment or a sense of the baseness
of sin. Repentance is a penitent renunciation of, and turning from,
sin; thorough repentance produces a new life. Repentance is often
used as synonymous with contrition. See Compunction.

CONTRITURATE
Con*trit"u*rate, v. t.

Defn: To triturate; to pulverize. [R.]

CONTRIVABLE
Con*triv"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being contrived, planned, invented, or devised.
A perpetual motion may seem easily contrivable. Bp. Wilkins.

CONTRIVANCE
Con*triv"ance, n.

1. The act or faculty of contriving, inventing, devising, or
planning.
The machine which we are inspecting demonstrates, by its
construction, contrivance and design. Contrivance must have had a
contriver. Paley.

2. The thing contrived, invented, or planned; disposition of parts or
causes by design; a scheme; plan; atrifice; arrangement.
Government is a contrivance of human wisdom to provide for human
wants. Burke.

Syn.
 -- Device; plan; scheme; invention; machine; project; design;
artifice; shift. See Device.

CONTRIVE
Con*trive", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contrived; p.pr. & vb.n. Contriving.]
Etym: [OE. contriven, contreven, controven, to invent, OF. controver,
contruver; con- + trouver to find. See Troubadour, trover.]

Defn: To form by an exercise of ingenuity; to devise; to invent; to
design; to plan.
What more likely to contrive this admirable frame of the universe
than infinite wisdom. Tillotson.
neither do thou imagine that I shall contrive aught against his life.
Hawthorne.

Syn.
 -- To invent; discover; plan; design; project; plot; concert; hatch.

CONTRIVE
Con*trive", v. i.

Defn: To make devices; to form designs; to plan; to scheme; to plot.
The Fates with traitors do contrive. Shak.
Thou hast contrived against th very life Of the defendant. Shak.

CONTRIVEMENT
Con*trive"ment, n.

Defn: Contrivance; invention; arrangement; design; plan. [Obs.]
Consider the admirable contrivement and artifice of this great
fabric. Glanvill.
Active to meet their contrivements. Sir G. Buck.

CONTRIVER
Con*triv"er, n.

Defn: One who contrives, devises, plans, or schemas. Swift.

CONTROL
Con*trol", n. Etym: [F. contrôle a counter register, contr. fr.
contr-rôle; contre (L. contra) + rôle roll, catalogue. See Counter
and Roll, and cf. Counterroll.]

1. A duplicate book, register, or account, kept to correct or check
another account or register; a counter register. [Obs.] Johnson.

2. That which serves to check, restrain, or hinder; restraint. "Speak
without control." Dryden.

3. Power or authority to check or restrain; restraining or regulating
influence; superintendence; government; as, children should be under
parental control.
The House of Commons should exercise a control over all the
departments of the executive administration. Macaulay.
Board of control. See under Board.

CONTROL
Con*trol", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Controlled; p.pr. & vb.n. Controlling.]
Etym: [F. contrôler, fr. contrôle.] [Formerly written comptrol and
controul.]

1. To check by a counter register or duplicate account; to prove by
counter statements; to confute. [Obs.]
This report was controlled to be false. Fuller.

2. To exercise restraining or governing influence over; to check; to
counteract; to restrain; to regulate; to govern; to overpower.
Give me a staff of honor for mine age, But not a scepter to control
the world. Shak.
I feel my virtue struggling in my soul: But stronger passion does its
power control. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To restrain; rule; govern; manage; guide; regulate; hinder;
direct; check; curb; counteract; subdue.

CONTROLLABILITY
Con*trol`la*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capability of being controlled; controllableness.

CONTROLLABLE
Con*trol"la*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being controlled, checked, or restrained; amenable
to command.
Passion is the drunkeness of the mind, and, therefore, . . . not
always controllable by reason. South.

CONTROLLABLENESS
Con*trol"la*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Capability of being controlled.

CONTROLLER
Con*trol"ler, n. Etym: [From control, v.t.: cf. F. contrôleur.]

1. One who, or that which, controls or restraines; one who has power
or authority to regulate or control; one who governs.
The great controller of our fate Deigned to be man, and lived in low
estate. Dryden.

2. An officer appointed to keep a counter register of accounts, or to
examine, rectify, or verify accounts. [More commonly written
controller.]

3. (Naut.)

Defn: An iron block, usually bolted to a ship's deck, for controlling
the running out of a chain cable. The links of the cable tend to drop
into hollows in the block, and thus hold fast until disengaged.

CONTROLLERSHIP
Con*trol"ler*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a controller.

CONTROLMENT
Con*trol"ment, n.

1. The power or act of controlling; the state of being rstrained;
control; restraint; regulation; superintendence.
You may do it without controlment. Shak.

2. Opposition; resistance; hostility. [Obs.]
Here have we war for war, and blood for blood, Controlment for
controlment. Shak.

CONTROVERSAL
Con`tro*ver"sal, a.

1. Turning or looking opposite ways. [Obs.]
The temple of Janus, with his two controversal faces. Milton.

2. Controversal. [Obs.] Boyle.

CONTROVERSARY
Con`tro*ver"sa*ry, a.

Defn: Controversial. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

CONTROVERSE
Con"tro*verse, n. Etym: [Cf. F. controverse.]

Defn: Controversy. [Obs.] Spenser.

CONTROVERSE
Con"tro*verse, v. t. Etym: [L. controversari, fr. controversus turned
against, disputed.]

Defn: To dispute; to controvert. [Obs.] "Controversed causes."
Hooker.

CONTROVERSER
Con"tro*ver`ser, n.

Defn: A disputant. [Obs.]

CONTROVERSIAL
Con`tro*ver"sial, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. controversialis.]

Defn: Relating to, or consisting of, controversy; disputatious;
polemical; as, controversial divinity.
Whole libraries of controversial books. Macaulay.

CONTROVERSIALIST
Con`tro*ver"sial*ist, n.

Defn: One who carries on a controversy; a disputant.
He [Johnson] was both intellectually and morally of the stuff of
which controversialists are made. Macaulay.

CONTROVERSIALLY
Con`tro*ver"sial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a controversial manner.

CONTROVERSION
Con`tro*ver"sion, n.

Defn: Act of controverting; controversy. [Obs.] Hooker.

CONTROVERSOR
Con"tro*ver`sor, n.

Defn: A controverser. [Obs.]

CONTROVERSY
Con"tro*ver`sy, n.; pl. Controversies. Etym: [L. controversia, fr.
controversus turned against, disputed; contro- = contra + versus,
p.p. of vertere to turn. See Verse.]

1. Contention; dispute; debate; discussion; agitation of contrary
opinions.
This left no room for controversy about the title. Locke.
A dispute is commonly oral, and a controversy in writing. Johnson.

2. Quarrel; strife; cause of variance; difference.
The Lord hath a controversy with the nations. Jer. xxv. 31.

3. A suit in law or equity; a question of right. [Obs.]
When any man that had a controversy came to the king for judgment. 2
Sam. xv. 2.

Syn.
 -- Dispute; debate; disputation; disagreement; altercation;
contention; wrangle; strife; quarrel.

CONTROVERT
Con"tro*vert, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Controverted; p.pr. & vb.n.
Controverting.] Etym: [See Controversy.]

Defn: To make matter of controversy; to dispute or oppose by
reasoning; to contend against in words or writings; to contest; to
debate.
Some controverted points had decided according to the sense of the
best jurists. Macaulay.

CONTROVERTER
Con"tro*ver`ter, n.

Defn: One who controverts; a controversial writer; a
controversialist.
Some controverters in divinity are like swaggerers in a tavern. B.
Jonson.

CONTROVERTIBLE
Con`tro*ver"ti*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being controverted; disputable; admitting of
question.
 -- Con`tro*ver"ti*bly, adv.

CONTROVERTIST
Con"tro*ver`tist, n.

Defn: One skilled in or given to controversy; a controversialist.
How unfriendly is the controvertist to the discernment of the critic!
Campbell.

CONTUBERNAL; CONTUBERNIAL
Con*tu"ber*nal, Con`tu*ber"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. contubernalis a tent
companion, fr. contubernium tent companionship.]

Defn: Living or messing together; familiar; in companionship.
Humble folk ben Christes friends: they ben contubernial with the
Lord, thy King. Chaucer.

CONTUMACIOUS
Con`tu*ma"cious, a. Etym: [L. contumax, -acis. See Contumacy.]

1. Exhibiting contumacy; contemning authority; obstinate; perverse;
stubborn; disobedient.
There is another very, efficacious method for subding the most
obstinate, contumacious sinner. Hammond.

2. (Law)

Defn: Willfully disobedient to the summous or prders of a court.
Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- Stubborn; obstinate; obdurate; disobedient; perverse; unyielding;
headstrong.
 -- Con`tu*ma"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Con`tu*ma"cious*ness, n.

CONTUMACY
Con"tu*ma*cy, n.; pl. Contumacies. Etym: [L. contumacia, fr.
contumax, -acis, insolent; prob. akin to contemnere to despise: cf.
F. contumace. Cf. Contemn.]

1. Stubborn perverseness; pertinacious resistance to authority.
The bishop commanded him . . . to be thrust into the stocks for his
manifest and manifold contumacy. Strype.

2. (Law)

Defn: A willful contempt of, and disobedience to, any lawful summons,
or to the rules and orders of court, as a refusal to appear in court
when legally summoned.

Syn.
 -- Stubbornness; perverseness; obstinacy.

CONTUMELIOUS
Con`tu*me"li*ous (or ; 106), a. Etym: [L. contumeliosus.]

1. Exhibiting contumely; rudely contemptuous; insolent; disdainful.
Scoffs, and scorns, and contumelious taunts. Shak.
Curving a contumelious lip. Tennyson.

2. Shameful; disgraceful. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
 -- Con`tu*me"li*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Con`tu*me"li*ous*ness, n.

CONTUMELY
Con"tu*me*ly, n. Etym: [L. contumelia, prob. akin to contemnere to
despise: cf. OF. contumelie. Cf. Contumacy.]

Defn: Rudeness compounded of haughtiness and contempt; scornful
insolence; despiteful treatment; disdain; contemptuousness in act or
speech; disgrace.
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely. Shak.
Nothing aggravates tyranny so much as contumely. Burke.

CONTUSE
Con*tuse", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contused; p.pr. & vb.n. Contusing.]
Etym: [L. contusus, p.p. of contundere to beat, crush; con- + tundere
to beat, akin to Skr. tud (for stud) to strike, Goth. stautan. See
Stutter.]

1. To beat, pound, or together.
Roots, barks, and seeds contused together. Bacon.

2. To bruise; to injure or disorganize a part without breaking the
skin. Contused wound, a wound attended with bruising.

CONTUSION
Con*tu"sion, n. Etym: [L. contusio: cf. F. contusion.]

1. The act or process of beating, bruising, or pounding; the state of
being beaten or bruised.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A bruise; an injury attended with more or less disorganization
of the subcutaneous tissue and effusion of blood beneath the skin,
but without apparent wound.

CONUNDRUM
Co*nun"drum, n. Etym: [Origin unknown.]

1. A kind of riddle based upon some fanciful or fantastic resemblance
between things quite unlike; a puzzling question, of which the answer
is or involves a pun.
Or pun ambiguous, or conundrum quaint. J. Philips.

2. A question to which only a conjectural answer can be made.
Do you think life is long enough to let me speculate on conundrums
like that W. Black.

CONURE
Co*nure", n. Etym: [NL. conurus, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American parrakeet of the genus Conurus. Many species are
known. See Parrakeet.

CONUS
Co"nus, n. Etym: [L., a cone.]

1. A cone.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A Linnean genus of mollusks having a conical shell. See Cone,
n., 4.

CONUSABLE
Con"u*sa*ble, a.

Defn: Cognizable; liable to be tried or judged. [Obs.] Bp. Barlow.

CONUSANT
Con"u*sant, a. (Law)

Defn: See Cognizant.

CONUSOR
Con`u*sor", n. (Law)

Defn: See Cognizor.

CONVALESCE
Con`va*lesce", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Convalesced; p.pr. & vb.n.
Convalescing.] Etym: [L. convalscere; con- + valescere to grow
strong, v. incho. of valere to be strong. See Vallant.]

Defn: To recover health and strength gradually, after sickness or
weakness; as, a patient begins to convalesce.

CONVALESCED
Con`va*lesced", a.

Defn: Convalescent. [R.]
He found the queen somewhat convalesced. J. Knox.

CONVALESCENCE; CONVALESCENCY
Con`va*les"cence, Con`va*les"cen*cy, n. Etym: [L. convalescentia: cf.
F. convalescence.]

Defn: The recovery of heath and strength after disease; the state of
a body renewing its vigor after sickness or weakness; the time
between the subsidence of a disease and complete restoration to
health.

CONVALESCENT
Con`va*les"cent, a. Etym: [L. convalescens, -entis, p.pr.: cf. F.
convalescent.]

1. Recovering from siclness or debility; partially restored to health
or strength.

2. Of or pertaining to convalescence.

CONVALESCENT
Con`va*les"cent, n.

Defn: One recovering from sickness.

CONVALESCENTLY
Con`va*les"cent*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a convalescent; with increasing strength or
vigor.

CONVALLAMARIN
Con*val"la*ma`rin, n. Etym: [Convalaria + L. amarus bitter.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, poisonous substance, regarded as a
glucoside, extracted from the lily of the valley (Convallaria
Majalis). Its taste is first bitter, then sweet.

CONVALLARIA
Con`val*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., from L. convallis a valley; con- +
vallis valley.] (Bot. & Med.)

Defn: The lily of the valley.

CONVALLARIN
Con`val*la"rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline glucoside, of an irritating taste,
extracted from the convallaria or lily of the valley.

CONVECTION
Con*vec"tion, n. Etym: [L. convectio, fr. convehere to bring
together; con- + vehere to carry.]

1. The act or process of conveying or transmitting.

2. (Physics)

Defn: A process of transfer or transmission, as of heat or
electricity, by means of currents in liquids or gases, resulting from
changes of temperature and other causes.
Liquids are generally heated by convection -- when heat is applied
from bellow. Nichol.

CONVECTIVE
Con*vec"tive, a.

Defn: Caused or accomplished by convection; as, a convective
discharge of electricity. Faraday.

CONVECTIVELY
Con*vec"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a convective manner. Hare.

CONVELLENT
Con*vel"lent, a. Etym: [L. convellens, p.pr. of convellere. See
Convulse.]

Defn: Tending to tear or pull up. [Obs.]
The ends of the fragment . . . will not yield to the convellent
force. Todd & Bowman.

CONVENABLE
Con*ven"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being convened or assembled.

CONVENABLE
Con"ve*na*ble, a. Etym: [F. convenable, fr. convenir. See Convene.]

Defn: Consistent; accordant; suitable; proper; as, convenable
remedies. [Obs.]
With his wod his work is convenable. Spenser.

CONVENANCE
Con"ve*nance, n. Etym: [F., fitness, suitableness.]

Defn: That which is suitable, agreeable, or convenient.
And they missed Their wonted convenance, cheerly hid the loss.
Emerson.

CONVENE
Con*vene", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Convened; p.pr. & vb.n. Convenong.]
Etym: [L. convenire; con- + venire to come: cf. F. convenir to agree,
to be fitting, OF. also, to assemble. See Come, and cf. Covenant.]

1. To come together; to meet; to unite. [R.]
In shortsighted men . . . the rays converge and convene in the eyes
before they come at the bottom. Sir I. Newton.

2. To come together, as in one body or for a public purpose; to meet;
to assemble. Locke.
The Parliament of Scotland now convened. Sir R. Baker.
Faint, underneath, the household fowls convene. Thomson.

Syn.
 -- To meet; to assemble; to congregate; to collect; to unite.

CONVENE
Con*vene", v. t.

1. To cause to assemble; to call together; to convoke.
And now the almighty father of the gods Convenes a council in the
blest abodes. Pope.

2. To summon judicially to meet or appear.
By the papal canon law, clerks . . . can not be convened before any
but an ecclesiastical judge. Ayliffe.

CONVENER
Con*ven"er, n.

1. One who convenes or meets with others. [Obs.]

2. One who calls an assembly together or convenes a meeting; hence,
the chairman of a committee or other organized body. [Scot.]

CONVENIENCE; CONVENIENCY
Con*ven"ience, Con*ven"ien*cy, n. Etym: [L. convenientia agreement,
fitness. See Convenient.]

1. The state or quality of being convenient; fitness or suitableness,
as of place, time, etc.; propriety.
Let's futher think of this; Weigh what convenience both of time and
means May fit us to our shape. Shak.
With all brief and plain conveniency, Let me have judgment. Shak.

2. Freedom from discomfort, difficulty, or trouble; commodiousness;
ease; accommodation.
Thus necessity invented stools, Convenience next suggested elbow
chairs. Cowper.
We are rather intent upon the end of God's glory than our own
conveniency. Jer. Taylor.

3. That which is convenient; that which promotes comfort or
advantage; that which is suited to one's wants; an accommodation.
A pair of spectacles and several other little conveniences. Swift.

4. A convenient or fit time; opportunity; as, to do something at
one's convenience.

CONVENIENT
Con*ven"ient, a. Etym: [L. conveniens, -entis, suitable, p.pr. of
convenire to be suitable, to come. See Convene, v. i.]

1. Fit or adapted; suitable; proper; becoming; appropriate. [Archaic]
Feed me with food convenient for me. Prov. xxx. 8.
Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not
convenient. Eph. v. 4.

2. Affording accommodation or advantage; well adapted to use; handly;
as, a convenient house; convenient implements or tools.

3. Seasonable; timely; opportune; as, a convenient occasion; a
convenient season. Acts xxiv. 25.

4. Near at hand; easy of access. [Colloq.]
Hereties used to be brought thither, convenient for burning.
Thackeray.

Syn.
 -- Fit; suitable; proper; adapted; fitted; suited; handly;
commodious.

CONVENIENTLY
Con*ven"ient*ly, adv.

Defn: In a convenient manner, form, or situation; without difficulty.

CONVENT
Con"vent, n. Etym: [L. conventus a meeting, LL. also, a convent. See
Convene, v. i.]

1. A coming together; a meeting. [Obs.]
A usual ceremony at their [the witches] convents or meetings. B.
Jonson.

2. An association or community of recluses devoted to a religious
life; a body of monks or nuns.
One of our convent, and his [the duke's] confessor. Shak.

3. A house occupied by a community of religious recluses; a monastery
or nunnery.
One seldom finds in Italy a spot of ground more agreeable than
ordinary that is not covered with a convent. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Nunnery; monastery; abbey. See Cloister.

CONVENT
Con*vent", v. i. Etym: [L. conventus, p.p. of convenire. See Convene,
v. i.]

1. To meet together; to concur. [obs.] Beau. & Fl.

2. To be convenient; to serve. [Obs.]
When that is known and golden time convents. Shak.

CONVENT
Con*vent", v. t.

Defn: To call before a judge or judicature; to summon; to convene.
[Obs.] Shak.

CONVENTICAL
Con*vent"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or from, or pertaining to, a convent. "Conventical wages."
Sterne. Conventical prior. See Prior.

CONVENTICLE
Con*ven"ti*cle, n. Etym: [L. conventiculum, dim. of conventus: cf. F.
conventicule. See Convent, n.]

1. A small assembly or gathering; esp., a secret assembly.
They are commanded to abstain from all conventicles of men
whatsoever. Ayliffe.

2. An assembly for religious worship; esp., such an assembly held
privately, as in times of persecution, by Nonconformists or
Dissenters in England, or by Covenanters in Scotland; -- often used
opprobriously, as if those assembled were heretics or schismatics.
The first Christians could never have had recourse to nocturnal or
clandestine conventicles till driven to them by the violence of
persecution. Hammond.
A sort of men who . . . attend its [the curch of England's] service
in the morning, and go with their wives to a conventicle in the
afternoon. Swift.

CONVENTICLER
Con*ven"ti*cler, n.

Defn: One who supports or frequents conventicles. Dryden.

CONVENTICLING
Con*ven"ti*cling, a.

Defn: Belonging or going to, or resembling, a conventicle. [Obs.]
Conventicling schools . . . set up and taught secretly by fanatics.
South.

CONVENTION
Con*ven"tion, n. Etym: [L. conventio: cf. F. convention. See Convene,
v. i.]

1. The act of coming together; the state of being together; union;
coalition.
The conventions or associations of several particles of matter into
bodies of any certain denomination. Boyle.

2. General agreement or concurrence; arbitrary custom; usage;
conventionality.
There are thousands now Such women, but convention beats them down.
Tennyson.

3. A meeting or an assembly of persons, esp. of delegates or
representatives, to accomplish some specific object, -- civil,
social, political, or ecclesiastical.
He set himself to the making of good laws in a grand convention of
his nobles. Sir R. Baker.
A convention of delegates from all the States, to meet in
Philadelphia, for the sole and express purpose of reserving the
federal system, and correcting its defects. W. Irving.

4. (Eng. Hist)

Defn: An extraordinary assembly of the parkiament or estates of the
realm, held without the king's writ, -- as the assembly which
restored Charles II. to the throne, and that which declared the
throne to be abdicated by James II.
Our gratitude is due . . . to the Long Parliament, to the Convention,
and to William of Orange. Macaulay.

5. An agreement or contract less formal than, or preliminary to, a
traety; an informal compact, as between commanders of armies in
respect to suspension of hostilities, or between states; also, a
formal agreement between governments or sovereign powers; as, a
postal convetion between two governments.
This convention, I think from my soul, is nothing but a stipulation
for national ignominy; a truce without a suspension of hostilities.
Ld. Chatham.
The convention with the State of georgia has been ratified by their
Legislature. T. Jefferson.

CONVENTIONAL
Con*ven"tion*al, a. Etym: [L. conventionalis: cf. F. conventionnel.]

1. Formed by agreement or compact; stipulated.
Conventional services reserved by tenures upon grants, made out of
the crown or knights' service. Sir M. Hale.

2. Growing out of, or depending on, custom or tacit agreement;
sanctioned by general concurrence or usage; formal. "Conventional
decorum." Whewell.
The conventional language appropriated to monarchs. Motley.
The ordinary salutations, and other points of social behavior, are
conventional. Latham.

3. (Fine Arts)
(a) Based upon tradition, whether religious and historical or of
artistic rules.
(b) Abstracted; removed from close representation of nature by the
deliberate selection of what is to be represented and what is to be
rejected; as, a conventional flower; a conventional shell. Cf.
Conventionalize, v. t.

CONVENTIONALISM
Con*ven"tion*al*ism, n.

1. That which is received or established by convention or arbitrary
agreement; that which is in accordance with the fashion, tradition,
or usage.
All the artifice and conventionalism of life. Hawthorne.
They gaze on all with dead, dim eyes, -- wrapped in conventionalisms,
. . . simulating feelings according to a received standart. F. W.
Robertson.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: The principles or practice of conventionalizing. See
Conventionalize, v. t.

CONVENTIONALIST
Con*ven"tion*al*ist, n.

1. One who adheres to a convention or treaty.

2. One who is governed by conventionalism.

CONVENTIONALITY
Con*ven`tion*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Conventionalities (.

Defn: The state of being conventional; adherence to social
formalities or usages; that which is established by conventional use;
one of the customary usages of social life.

CONVENTIONALIZATION
Con*ven`tion*al*i*za"tion, n. (Fine Arts)
(a) The act of making conventional.
(b) The state of being conventional.

CONVENTIONALIZE
Con*ven"tion*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conventionalized; p.pr. &
vb.n. Conventionalizing.]

1. To make conventional; to bring under the influence of, or cause to
conform to, conventional rules; to establish by usage.

2. (Fine Arts)
(a) To represent by selecting the important features and those which
are expressible in the medium employed, and omitting the others.
(b) To represent according to an established principle, whether
religious or traditional, or based upon certain artistic rules of
supposed importance.

CONVENTIONALIZE
Con*ven"tion*al*ize, v. i. (Fine Arts)

Defn: To make designs in art, according to conventional principles.
Cf. Conventionalize, v. t., 2.

CONVENTIONALLY
Con*ven"tion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a conventional manner.

CONVENTIONARY
Con*ven"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Acting under contract; settled by express agreement; as,
conventionary tenants. [Obs.] R. Carew.

CONVENTIONER
Con*ven"tion*er, n.

Defn: One who belongs to a convention or assembly.

CONVENTIONIST
Con*ven"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who enters into a convention, covenant, or contract.

CONVENTUAL
Con*ven"tu*al, a. Etym: [LL. conventualis: cf. F. conventuel.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a convent; monastic. "A conventual garb."
Macaulay. Conventual church, a church attached or belonging to a
convent or monastery. Wordsworth.

CONVENTUAL
Con*ven"tu*al, n.

Defn: One who lives in a convent; a monk or num; a recluse. Addison.

CONVERGE
Con*verge", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Converged; p.pr. & vb.n. Converging.]
Etym: [Pref. con- + L. vergere to turn, incline; cf. F. converger.
See Verge, v. i.]

Defn: To tend to one point; to incline and approach nearer together;
as, lines converge.
The mountains converge into a single ridge. Jefferson.

CONVERGE
Con*verge", v. t.

Defn: To cause to tend to one point; to cause to incline and approach
nearer together.
I converge its rays to a focus of dazzling brilliancy. Tyndall.

CONVERGENCE; CONVERGENCY
Con*ver"gence, Con*ver"gen*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. convergence.]

Defn: The condition or quality of converging; tendency to one point.
The convergence or divergence of the rays falling on the pupil.
Berkeley.

CONVERGENT
Con*ver"gent, a. Etym: [Cf. F. convergent.]

Defn: tending to one point of focus; tending to approach each other;
converging.
As many rays of light, as conveniently can be let in, and made
convergent. Boyle.
The vast dome of its cathedral . . . directing its convergent curves
to heaven. Hallam.

CONVERGING
Con*ver"ging, a.

Defn: Tending to one point; approaching each other; convergent; as,
converging lines. Whewell. Converging rays(Opt.), rays of light,
which, proceeding from different points of an object, tend toward a
single point.
 -- Converging series (Math.), a series in which if an indefinitely
great number of terms be taken, their sum will become indefinitely
near in value to a fixed quantity, which is called the sum of the
series; -- opposed to a diverging series.

CONVERSABLE
Con*vers"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. conversable.]

Defn: Qualified for conversation; disposed to converse; sociable;
free in discourse.
While young, humane, conversable, and kind. Cowper.

CONVERSABLENESS
Con*vers"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being conversable; disposition to converse;
sociability.

CONVERSABLY
Con*vers"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a conversable manner.

CONVERSANCE
Con"ver*sance, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being conversant; habit of familiarity;
familiar acquaintance; intimacy. [R.]

CONVERSANCY
Con"ver*san*cy, n.

Defn: Conversance [R.]

CONVERSANT
Con"ver*sant, a. Etym: [L. conversans, p.pr. of conversari: cf. F.
conversant.]

1. Having frequent or customary intercourse; familiary associated;
intimately acquainted.
I have been conversant with the first persons of the age. Dryden.

2. Familiar or acquainted by use or study; well-informed; versed; --
generally used with with, sometimes with in.
Deeply conversant in the Platonic philosophy. Dryden.
he uses the different dialects as one who had been conversant with
them all. Pope.
Conversant only with the ways of men. Cowper.

3. Concerned; occupied.
Education . . . is conversant about children. W. Wotton.

CONVERSANT
Con*vers"ant, n.

Defn: One who converses with another; a convenser. [R.]

CONVERSANTLY
Con"ver*sant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a familiar manner.

CONVERSATION
Con`ver*sa"tion, n. Etym: [OE. conversacio (in senses 1 & 2), OF.
conversacion, F. conversation, fr. L. conversatio frequent abode in a
place, intercourse, LL. also, manner of life.]

1. General course of conduct; behavior. [Archaic]
Let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel. Philip. i. 27.

2. Familiar intercourse; intimate fellowship or association; close
acquaintance. "Conversation with the best company." Dryden.
I set down, out of long experience in business and much conversation
in books, what I thought pertinent to this business. Bacon.

3. Commerce; intercourse; traffic. [Obs.]
All traffic and mutual conversation. Hakluyt.

4. Colloqual discourse; oral interchange of sentiments and
observations; informal dialogue.
The influence exercised by his [Johnson's] conversation was
altogether without a parallel. Macaulay.

5. Sexual intercourse; as, criminal conversation.

Syn.
 -- Intercourse; communion; commerce; familiarity; discourse;
dialogue; colloque; talk; chat.
 -- Conversation, Talk. There is a looser sense of these words, in
which they are synonymous; there is a stricter sense, in which they
differ. Talk is usually broken, familiar, and versatile. Conversation
is more continuous and sustained, and turns ordinarily upon topics or
higher interest. Children talk to their parents or to their
companions; men converse together in mixed assemblies. Dr. Johnson
once remarked, of an evening spent in society, that there had been a
great deal of talk, but no conversation.

CONVERSATIONAL
Con`ver*sa"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to conversation; in the manner of one conversing;
as, a conversational style. Thackeray.

CONVERSATIONALIST
Con`ver*sa"tion*al*ist, n.

Defn: A conversationist.

CONVERSATIONED
Conver*sa"tioned, a.

Defn: Acquainted with manners and deportment; behaved. [Obs.]
Till she be better conversationed, . . . I'll keep As far from her as
the gallows. Beau. & Fl.

CONVERSATIONISM
Con`ver*sa"tion*ism, n.

Defn: A word or phrase used in conversation; a colloqualism.

CONVERSATIONIST
Con`ver*sa"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who converses much, or who excels in conversation. Byron.

CONVERSATIVE
Con*ver"sa*tive, a.

Defn: Relating to intercourse with men; social; -- opposed to
contemplative.
She chose . . . to endue him with the conversative qualities of
youth. Sir H. Wotton.

CONVERSAZIONE
Con`ver*sa`zio"ne (or ), n.; pl. Conversazioni. Etym: [It. See
Conversation.]

Defn: A meeting or assembly for conversation, particularly on
literary or scientific subjects. Gray.
These conversazioni [at Florence] resemble our card assemblies. A.
Drummond.

CONVERSE
Con*verse", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Conversed; p.pr. & vb.n. Conversing.]
Etym: [F. converser, L. conversari to associate with; con- + versari
to be turned, to live, remain, fr. versare to turn often, v. intens.
of vertere to turn See Convert.]

1. To keep company; to hold intimate intercourse; to commune; --
followed by with.
To seek the distant hills, and there converse With nature. Thomson.
Conversing with the world, we use the world's fashions. Sir W. Scott.
But to converse with heaven -This is not easy. Wordsworth.

2. To engage, in familiar colloqui; to interchange thoughts and
opinions in a free, informal manner; to chat; -- followed by with
before a person; by on, about, concerning, etc., before a thing.
Companions That do converse and waste the time together. Shak.
We had conversed so often on that subject. Dryden.

3. To have knowledge of, from long intercourse or study; -- said of
things.
According as the objects they converse with afford greater or less
variety. Locke.

Syn.
 -- To associate; commune; discourse; talk; chat.

CONVERSE
Con"verse, n.

1. Frequent intercourse; familiar communion; intimate association.
Glanvill.
"T is but to hold Converse with Nature's charms, and view her stores
unrolled. Byron.

2. Familiar discourse; free interchange of thoughts or views;
conversation; chat.
Formed by thy converse happily to steer From grave to gay, from
lively to severe. Pope.

CONVERSE
Con"verse

Defn: , a. Etym: [L. conversus, p.p. of convertere. See Convert.]
Turned about; reversed in order or relation; reciprocal; as, a
converse proposition.

CONVERSE
Con"verse, n.

1. (Logic)

Defn: A proposition which arises from interchanging the terms of
another, as by putting the predicate for the subject, and the subject
for the predicate; as, no virtue is vice, no vice is virtue.

Note: It should not (as is often done) be confounded with the
contrary or opposite of a proposition, which is formed by introducing
the negative not or no.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A proposition in which, after a conclusion from something
supposed has been drawn, the order is inverted, making the conclusion
the supposition or premises, what was first supposed becoming now the
conclusion or inference. Thus, if two sides of a sides of a triangle
are equal, the angles opposite the sides are equal; and the converse
is true, i.e., if these angles are equal, the two sides are equal.

CONVERSELY
Con"verse*ly ( or , adv.

Defn: In a converse manner; with change of order or relation;
reciprocally. J. S. Mill.

CONVERSER
Con*vers"er, n.

Defn: One who engages in conversation.

CONVERSIBLE
Con*ver"si*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being converted or reversed. Hammond.

CONVERSION
Con*ver"sion, n. Etym: [L. conversio: cf. F. conversion. See
Convert.]

1. The act of turning or changing from one state or condition to
another, or the state of being changed; transmutation; change.
Artificial conversion of water into ice. Bacon.
The conversion of the aliment into fat. Arbuthnot.

2. The act of changing one's views or course, as in passing from one
side, party, or from of religion to another; also, the state of being
so changed. "Conversion to Christianity." Prescott.

3. (Law)

Defn: An appropriation of, and dealing with the property of another
as if it were one's own, without right; as, the conversion of a
horse.
Or bring my action of conversion And trover for my goods. Hudibras.

4. (Logic)

Defn: The act of interchanging the terms of a proposition, as by
putting the subject in the place of the predicate, or the contrary.

5. (Math.)

Defn: A change or reduction of the form or value of a proposition;
as, the conversion of equations; the conversion of proportions.

6. (Mil.)
(a) A change of front, as a body of troops attacked in the flank.
(b) A change of character or use, as of smoothbore guns into rifles.

7. (Theol.)

Defn: A spiritual and moral change attending a change of belief with
conviction; a change of heart; a change from the service of the world
to the service of God; a change of the ruling disposition of the
soul, involving a transformation of the outward life.
He oft Frequented their assemblies, . . . and to them preached
Conversion and repentance, as to souls In prison under judgments
imminent. Milton.

CONVERSIVE
Con*ver"sive, a.

1. Capable of being converted or changed.

2. Ready to converse; social. [Archaic] Feltham.

CONVERT
Con*vert", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Converted; p.pr. & vb.n. Converting.]
Etym: [L. convertere, -versum; con- + vertere to turn: cf. F.
convertir. See Verse.]

1. To cause to turn; to turn. [Obs.]
O, which way shall I first convert myself B. Jonson.

2. To change or turn from one state or condition to another; to alter
in form, substance, or quality; to transform; to transmute; as, to
convert water into ice.
If the whole atmosphere were converted into water. T. Burnet.
That still lessens The sorrow, and converts it nigh to joy. Milton.

3. To change or turn from one belief or course to another, as from
one religion to another or from one party or sect to another.
No attempt was made to convert the Moslems. Prescott.

4. To produce the spiritual change called conversion in (any one); to
turn from a bad life to a good one; to change the heart and moral
character of (any one) from the controlling power of sin to that of
holiness.
He which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a
soul from death. Lames v. 20.

5. To apply to any use by a diversion from the proper or intended
use; to appropriate dishonestly or illegally.
When a bystander took a coin to get it changed, and converted it, [it
was] held no larceny. Cooley.

6. To exchange for some specified equivalent; as, to convert goods
into money.

7. (Logic)

Defn: To change (one proposition) into another, so that what was the
subject of the first becomes the predicate of the second.

8. To turn into another language; to translate. [Obs.]
Which story . . . Catullus more elegantly converted. B. Jonson.
Converted guns, cast-iron guns lined with wrought-iron or steel
tubes. Farrow.
 -- Converting furnace (Steel Manuf.), a furnace in which wrought
iron is converted into steel by cementation.

Syn.
 -- To change; turn; transmute; appropriate.

CONVERT
Con*vert", v. i.

Defn: To be turned or changed in character or direction; to undergo a
change, physically or morally.
If Nebo had had the preaching that thou hast, they [the Neboites]
would have converted. Latimer.
A red dust which converth into worms. Sandys.
The public hope And eye to thee converting. Thomson.

CONVERT
Con"vert, n.

1. A person who is converted from one opinion or practice to another;
a person who is won over to, or heartily embraces, a creed, religious
system, or party, in which he has not previously believed;
especially, one who turns from the controlling power of sin to that
of holiness, or from unbelief to Christianity.
The Jesuits did not persuade the converts to lay aside the use of
images. Bp. Stillingfleet.

2. A lay friar or brother, permitted to enter a monastery for the
service of the house, but without orders, and not allowed to sing in
the choir.

Syn.
 -- Proselyte; neophyte.
 -- Convert, Proselyte, Pervert. A convert is one who turns from what
he believes to have been a decided error of faith or practice. Such a
change may relate to religion, politics, or other subjects. properly
considered, it is not confined to speculation alone, but affects the
whole current of one's feelings and the tenor of his actions. As such
a change carries with it the appearance of sincerity, the term
convert is usually taken in a good sense. Proselyte is a term of more
ambiguous use and application. It was first applied to an adherent of
one religious system who had transferred himself externally to some
other religious system; and is also applied to one who makes a
similar transfer in respect to systems of philosophy or speculation.
The term has little or no reference to the state of the heart.
Pervert is a term of recent origin, designed to express the contrary
of convert, and to stigmatize a person as drawn off perverted from
the true faith. It has been more particulary applied by members of
the Church of England to those who have joined the Roman Catholic
Church.

CONVERTEND
Con`ver*tend", n. Etym: [L. convertenus to be converted.] (Logic)

Defn: Any proposition which is subject to the process of conversion;
-- so called in its relation to itself as converted, after which
process it is termed the conversae. See Converse, n. (Logic).

CONVERTER
Con*vert"er, n.

1. One who converts; one who makes converts.

2. (Steel Manuf.)

Defn: A retort, used in the Bessemer process, in which molten cast
iron is decarburized and converted into steel by a blast of air
forced through the liquid metal.

CONVERTIBILITY
Con*vert`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of being convertible; capability of
being exchanged; convertibleness.
The mutual convertibility of land into money, and of money into land.
Burke.

CONVERTIBLE
Con*vert"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. convertibilis: cf. F. convertible.]

1. Capable of being converted; susceptible of change; transmutable;
transformable.
Minerals are not convertible into another species, though of the same
genus. Harvey.

2. Capable of being exchanged or interchanged; reciprocal;
interchangeable.
So long as we are in the regions of nature, miraculous and
improbable, miraculous and incredible, may be allowed to remain
convertible terms. Trench.

CONVERTIBLENESS
Con*vert"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being convertible; convertibility.

CONVERTIBLY
Con*vert"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In a convertible manner.

CONVERTITE
Con"vert*ite, n. Etym: [Cf. It. convertito, p.p. of convertire to
convert.]

Defn: A convert. [Obs.] Shak.

CONVEX
Con"vex, a. Etym: [L. convexus vaulted, arched, convex, concave, fr.
convehere to bring together: cf. F. convexe. See Vehicle.]

Defn: Rising or swelling into a spherical or rounded form; regularly
protuberant or bulging; -- said of a spherical surface or curved line
when viewed from without, in opposition to concave.
Drops of water naturally form themselves into figures with a convex
surface. Whewell.
Double convex, convex on both sides; convexo-convex.

CONVEX
Con"vex, n.

Defn: A convex body or surface.
Half heaven's convex glitters with the flame. Tickell.

Note: This word was often pronounced con-vex' by early writers, as by
Milton, and occasionallyby later poets.

CONVEXED
Con"vexed ( or ), a.

Defn: Made convex; protuberant in a spherical form. Sir T. Browne.

CONVEXEDLY
Con*vex"ed*ly, dv.

Defn: In a convex form; convexly. Sir T. Browne.

CONVEXEDNESS
Con*vex"ed*ness, n.

Defn: Convexity.

CONVEXITY
Con*vex"i*ty, n.; pl. Convexities. Etym: [L. convexitas: cf. F.
convexité.]

Defn: The state of being convex; the exterior surface of a convex
body; roundness.
A smooth, uniform convexity and rotundity of a globe. Bentley.

CONVEXLY
Con"vex*ly, adv.

Defn: In a convex form; as, a body convexly shaped.

CONVEXNESS
Con"vex*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being convex; convexity.

CONVEXO-CONCAVE
Con*vex"o-con"cave (or ), a.

Defn: Convex on one side, and concave on the other. The curves of the
convex and concave sides may be alike or may be different. See
Meniscus.

CONVEXO-CONVEX
Con*vex"o-con"vex, a.

Defn: Convex on botConvex, a.

CONVEXO-PLANE
Con*vex"o-plane`, a.

Defn: Convex on one side, and flat on the other; plano-convex.

CONVEY
Con*vey", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conveyed; p.pr. & vb.n. Conveying.]
Etym: [OF. conveir, convoier, to escort, convoy, F. convoyer, LL.
conviare, fr. L. con- + via way. See Viaduct, Voyage, and cf.
Convoy.]

1. To carry from one place to another; to bear or transport.
I will convey them by sea in fleats. 1 Kings v. 9.
Convey me to my bed, then to my grave. Shak.

2. To cause to pass from one place or person to another; to serve as
a medium in carrying (anything) from one place or person to another;
to transmit; as, air conveys sound; words convey ideas.

3. To transfer or deliver to another; to make over, as property; more
strictly (Law), to transfer (real estate) or pass (a title to real
estate) by a sealed writing.
The Earl of Desmond . . . secretly conveyed all his lands to feoffees
in trust. Spenser.

4. To impart or communicate; as, to convey an impression; to convey
information.
Men fill one another's heads with noise and sound, but convey not
thereby their thoughts. Locke.

5. To manage with privacy; to carry out. [Obs.]
I . . . will convey the business as I shall find means. Shak.

6. To carry or take away secretly; to steal; to thieve. [Obs.]

7. To accompany; to convoy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- To carry; transport; bear; transmit; trnsfer.

CONVEY
Con*vey", v. i.

Defn: To play the thief; to steal. [Cant]
But as I am Crack, I will convey, crossbite, and cheat upon
Simplicius. Marston.

CONVEYABLE
Con*vey"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being conveyed or transferred. Burke.

CONVEYANCE
Con*vey"ance, n.

1. The act of conveying, carrying, or transporting; carriage.
The long joirney was to be performed on horseback, -- the only sure
mode of conveyamce. Prescott.
Following th river downward, there is conveyance into the countries
named in the text. Sir W. Raleigh.

2. The instrument or means of carrying or transporting anything from
place to place; the vehicle in which, or means by which, anything is
carried from one place to another; as, stagecoaches, omnibuses, etc.,
are conveyances; a canal or aqueduct is a conveyance for water.
There pipes and these conveyances of our blood. Shak.

3. The act or process of transferring, transmitting, handing down, or
communicating; transmission.
Tradition is no infallible way of conveyance. Stillingfleet.

4. (Law)

Defn: The act by which the title to property, esp. real estate, is
transferred; transfer of ownership; an instrument in writing (as a
deed or mortgage), by which the title to property is conveyed from
one person to another.
[He] found the conveyances in law to be so firm, that in justice he
must decree the land to the earl. Clarendon.

5. Dishonest management, or artifice. [Obs.]
the very jesuits themselves . . . can not possibly devise any
juggling conveyance how to shift it off. Hakewill.

CONVEYANCER
Con*vey"an*cer, n. (Law)

Defn: One whose business is to draw up conveyances of property, as
deeds, mortgages, leases, etc. Burrill.

CONVEYANCING
Con*vey"an*cing, n. (Law)

Defn: The business of a conveyancer; the act or business of drawing
deeds, leases, or other writings, for transferring the title to
property from one person to another.

CONVEYER
Con*vey"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, conveys or carries, transmits or
transfers.

2. One given to artifices or secret practices; a juggler; a cheat; a
thief. [Obs.] Shak.

CONVEYOR
Con*vey"or, n. (Mach.)

Defn: A contrivance for carrying objects from place to place; esp.,
one for conveying grain, coal, etc., -- as a spiral or screw turning
in a pipe or trough, an endless belt with buckets, or a truck running
along a rope.

CONVICIATE
Con*vi"ci*ate, v. i. Etym: [L. conviciatus, p.p. of conviciari to
revile, fr. convicium loud reproach.]

Defn: To utter reproaches; to raise a clamor; to rail. [Obs.]
To conviciate instead of accusing. Laud.

CONVICINITY
Con`vi*cin"i*ty, n.; pl. Convicinities (.

Defn: Immediate vicinity; neighborhood.
The convicinity and contiguity of the two parishes. T. Warton.

CONVICIOUS
Con*vi"cious, a.

Defn: Expressing reproach; abusive; railing; taunting. [Obs.]
"Convicious words." Queen Elizabeth (1559).

CONVICT
Con*vict", p.a. Etym: [L. convictus, p.p. of convincere to convict,
prove. See Convice.]

Defn: Proved or found guilty; convicted. [Obs.] Shak.
Convict by flight, and rebel to all law. Milton.

CONVICT
Con"vict, n.

1. A person proved guilty of a crime alleged against him; one legally
convicted or sentenced to punishment for some crime.

2. A criminal sentenced to penal servitude.

Syn.
 -- Malefactor; culprit; felon; criminal.

CONVICT
Con*vict", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Convicted; p.pr. & vb.n. Convicting.]

1. To prove or find guilty of an offense or crime charged; to
pronounce guilty, as by legal decision, or by one's conscience.
He [Baxter] . . . had been convicted by a jury. Macaulay.
They which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went
out one by one. John viii. 9.

2. To prove or show to be false; to confute; to refute. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

3. To demonstrate by proof or evidence; to prove.
Imagining that these proofs will convict a testament, to have that in
it which other men can nowhere by reading find. Hooker.

4. To defeat; to doom to destruction. [Obs.]
A whole armado of convicted sail. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To confute; defect; convince; confound.

CONVICTIBLE
Con*victi*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being convicted. [R.] Ash.

CONVICTION
Con*vic"tion, n. Etym: [L. convictio proof: cf. F. conviction
conviction (in sense 3 & 4). See Convict, Convince.]

1. The act of convicting; the act of proving, finding, or adjudging,
guilty of an offense.
The greater certainty of conviction and the greater certainty of
punishment. Hallam.

2. (Law)

Defn: A judgment of condemnation entered by a court having
jurisdiction; the act or process of finding guilty, or the state of
being found guilty of any crime by a legal tribunal.
Conviction may accrue two ways. Blackstone.

3. The act of convincing of error, or of compelling the admission of
a truth; confutation.
For all his tedious talk is but vain boast, Or subtle shifts
conviction to evade. Milton.

4. The state of being convinced or convicted; strong persuasion or
belief; especially, the state of being convicted of sin, or by one's
conscience.
To call good evil, and evil good, against the conviction of their own
consciences. Swift.
And did you presently fall under the power of this conviction Bunyan.

Syn.
 -- Conviction; persuasion.
 -- Conviction respects soley matters of belief or faith; persuasion
respects matters of belief or practice. Conviction respects our most
important duties; persuasion is frequently applied to matters of
indifference. Crabb.
 -- Conviction is the result of the [operation of the] understanding;
persuasion, of the will. Conviction is a necessity of the mind,
persuasion an acquiescence of the inclination. C. J. Smith.
 -- Persuasion often induces men to act in opposition to their
conviction of duty.

CONVICTISM
Con"vict*ism, n.

Defn: The policy or practice of transporting convicts to penal
settlements. "The evils of convictism." W. Howitt.

CONVICTIVE
Con*vict"ive, a.

Defn: Convincing. [R.]
The best and most convictive argument. Glanwill.
-- Con*vict"ive*ly, adv.
 -- Con*vict"ive*ness, n.

CONVINCE
Con*vince", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Convinced; p.pr. & vb.n. Convincing.]
Etym: [L. convincere, -victum, to refute, prove; con- + vincere to
conquer. See Victor, and cf. Convict.]

1. To overpower; to overcome; to subdue or master. [Obs.]
His two chamberlains Will I with wine and wassail so convince That
memory, the warder of the brain, Shall be a fume. Shak.

2. To overcome by argument; to force to yield assent to truth; to
satisfy by proof.
Such convincing proofs and assurances of it as might enable them to
convince others. Atterbury.

3. To confute; to prove the fallacy of. [Obs.]
God never wrought miracle to convince atheism, because his ordinary
works convince it. Bacon.

4. To prove guilty; to convinct. [Obs.]
Which of you convinceth me of sin John viii. 46.
Seek not to convince me of a crime Which I can ne'er repent, nor you
can pardon. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To persuade; satisfy; convict.
 -- To Convince, persuade. To convince is an act of the
understanding; to persuade, of the will or feelings. The one is
effected by argument, the other by motives. There are cases, however,
in which persuade may seem to be used in reference only to the assent
of the understanding; as when we say, I am persuaded it is so; I can
not persuade myself of the fact. But in such instances there is
usually or always a degree of awakened feeling which has had its
share in producing the assent of the understanding.

CONVINCEMENT
Con*vince"ment, n.

Defn: Act of convincing, or state of being convinced; conviction.
[R.]
The fear of a convincement. Milton.

CONVINCER
Con*vin"cer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, convinces; one who wins over by proof.

CONVINCIBLE
Con*vin"ci*ble, a.

1. Capable of being convinced or won over.

2. Capable of being confuted and disproved by argument; refutable.
[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CONVINCINGLY
Con*vin"cing*ly, adv.

Defn: in a convincing manner; in a manner to compel assent.

CONVINCINGNESS
Con*vin"cing*ness, n.

Defn: The power of convincing, or the quality of being convincing.

CONVIVAL
Con*viv"al, a. Etym: [L. convivalis. See Convive.]

Defn: pertaining to a feast or to festivity; convivial. [Obs.] "A
convival dish." Sir T. Browne.

CONVIVE
Con*vive", v. i. Etym: [L. convivari; akin to convivium a feast,
convivere to live or feast together; con- + vivere to live.]

Defn: To feast together; to be convivial. [Obs.] "There, in the full,
convive we." Shak.

CONVIVE
Con"vive, n. Etym: [L. conviva: cf. F. convive.]

Defn: A quest at a banquet. [R.] Beaumont.

CONVIVIAL
Con*viv"i*al, a. Etym: [From L. convivium a feast; con- + vivere to
live. See Victuals, and cf. Convive.]

Defn: Of or relating to a feast or entertainment, or to eating and
drinking, with accompanying festivity; festive; social; gay; jovial.
Which feasts convivial meetings we did name. Denham.

CONVIVIALIST
Con*viv"i*al*ist, n.

Defn: A person of convivial habits.

CONVIVIALITY
Con*viv`i*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Convivialities (.

Defn: The good humor or mirth indulged in upon festive occasions; a
convivial spirit or humor; festivity.

CONVIVIALLY
Con*viv"i*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a convivial manner.

CONVOCATE
Con"vo*cate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Convocated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Convocating.] Etym: [L. convocatus, p.p. of convocare to convocate;
con- + vocare to call. See Vocal, and cf. Convoce.]

Defn: To convoke; to call together. [Obs.] May (Lucan).

CONVOCATION
Con`vo*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. convocatio: cf. F. convocation. See
Convoke.]

1. The act of calling or assembling by summons.

2. An assembly or meeting.
In the first day there shall be a holy convocation. Ex. xii. 16.

3. (Ch. of Eng.)

Defn: An assembly of the clergy, by their representatives, to consult
on ecclesiastical affairs.

Note: In England, the provinces of Canterbury and York have each
their convocation, but no session for business were allowed from 1717
to 1861. The Convocation of Canterbury consists of two houses. In the
Convocation of York the business has been generally conducted in one
assembly.

4. (Oxf. University)

Defn: An academical assembly, in which the business of the university
is transacted.

Syn.
 -- meeting; assembly; congregation; congress; diet; convention;
synod; council.

CONVOCATIONAL
Con`vo*ca"tion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a convocation.

CONVOCATIONIST
Con`vo*ca"tion*ist, n.

Defn: An advocate or defender of convocation.

CONVOKE
Con*voke", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Convoked; p.pr. & vb.n. Convoking.]
Etym: [L. convocare: cf. F. convoquer. See Convocate.]

Defn: To call together; to summon to meet; to assemble by summons.
There remained no resource but the dreadful one of convoking a
parliament. palfrey.

Syn.
 -- To summon; assemble; convene. See Call.

CONVOLUTE
Con"vo*lute, a. Etym: [L. convolutus, p.p. of convolvere. See
Convolve.] (Bot.)

Defn: Rolled or wound together, one part upon another; -- said of the
leaves of plants in æstivation.

CONVOLUTED
Con"vo*lu`ted, a.

1. Having convolutions.
beaks recurved and convoluted like a ram's horn. Pennant.

2. Folded in tortuous windings.
A highly convoluted brain. North Amer. Rev.

CONVOLUTION
Con`vo*lu"tion, n.

1. The act of rolling anything upon itself, or one thing upon
another; a winding motion.
O'er the calm sea, in convolution swift, The feathered eddy floats.
Thomson.

2. The state of being rolled upon itself, or rolled or doubled
together; a tortuous or sinuous winding or fold, as of something
rolled or folded upon itself. Blackmore.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: An irregular, tortuous folding of an organ or part; as, the
convolutions of the intestines; the cerebral convolutions. See Brain.

CONVOLVE
Con*volve", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Convolved; p.pr. & vb.n. Convolving.]
Etym: [L. convolvere, -volutum; con- + volvere to roll. See Voluble.]

Defn: To roll or wind together; to roll or twist one part on another.
Then Satan first knew pain, And writhed him to and fro convolved.
Milton.

CONVOLVULACEOUS
Con*vol`vu*la"ceous, a. Etym: [From Convolvus.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which
the bindweed and the morning-glory are common examples.

CONVOLVULIN
Con*vol"vu*lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside occurring in jalap (the root of a convolvulaceous
plant), and extracted as a colorless, tasteless, gummy mass of
powerful purgative properties.

CONVOLVULUS
Con*vol"vu*lus, n.; pl. L.Convolvuli, E. Convoluluses. Etym: [L.,
bindweed, fr. convolvere to roll around. So named from its twining
stems.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large genus of plants having monopetalous flowers, including
the common bindweed (C. arwensis), and formerly the morning-glory,
but this is now transferred to the genus Ipomæa.
The luster of the long convolvuluses That coiled around the stately
stems. Tennyson.

CONVOY
Con*voy", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Convoyed; p.pr. & vb.n. Convoying.]
Etym: [F. convoyer, OF. conveier, convoier. See Convey.]

Defn: To accompany for protection, either by sea or land; to attend
for protection; to escort; as, a frigate convoys a merchantman.
I know ye skillful to convoy The total freight of hope and joy.
Emerson.

CONVOY
Con"voy, n. Etym: [F. convoi.]

1. The act of attending for defense; the state of being so attended;
protection; escort.
To obtain the convoy of a man-of-war. Macaulay.

2. A vessel or fleet, or a train or trains of wagons, employed in the
transportation of munitions of war, money, subsistence, clothing,
etc., and having an armed escort.

3. A protection force accompanying ships, etc., on their way from
place to place, by sea or land; an escort, for protection or
guidance.
When every morn my bosom glowed To watch the convoy on the road.
Emerson.

4. Conveyance; means of transportation. [Obs.] Shak.

5. A drag or brake applied to the wheels of a carriage, to check
their velocity in going down a hill. Knight.

CONVOY PENNANT
Con"voy pen"nant. A white pennant with red border, carried :
 (a) Forward on all vessels on convoy duty.
 (b) Alone by a senior officer present during evolutions or drills,
when it commands "Silence."
 (c) Over a signal number, when it refers to the signal number of an
officer in the Annual Navy Register.

CONVULSE
Con*vulse", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Convulsed; p.pr. & vb.n. Convulsing.]
Etym: [L. convulsus, p.p. of convellere to tear up, to shake; con- +
vellere to pluck, pull.]

1. To contract violently and irregulary, as the muscular parts of an
animal body; to shake with irregular spasms, as in excessive
laughter, or in agony from grief or pain.
With emotions which checked his voice and convulsed his powerful
frame. Macaulay.

2. To agitate greatly; to shake violently.
The world is convulsed by the agonies of great nations. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To agitate; disturb; shake; tear; rend.

CONVULSION
Con*vul"sion, n. Etym: [L. convulsio: cf. F. convulsion.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: An unnatural, violent, and unvoluntary contraction of the
muscular parts of an animal body.

2. Any violent and irregular motion or agitation; a violent shaking;
a tumult; a commotion.
Those two massy pillars, With horrible convulsion, to and fro He
tugged, he shook, till down they came. Milton.
Times of violence and convulsion. Ames.

Syn.
 -- Agitation; commotion; tumult; disturbance.

CONVULSIONAL
Con*vul"sion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or having, convulsions; convulsionary. [R.]
Lamb.

CONVULSIONARY
Con*vul"sion*a*ry (, a. Etym: [Cf. F. convulsionnaire.]

Defn: Pertaining to convulsion; convulsive. "Convulsionary
struggles." Sir W. Scott.

CONVULSIONARY
Con*vul"sion*a*ry, n.

Defn: A convulsionist.

CONVULSIONIST
Con*vul"sion*ist, n.

Defn: One who has convulsions; esp., one of a body of fanatics in
France, early in the eighteenth century, who went into convulsions
under the influence of religious emotion; as, the Convulsionists of
St. Médard.

CONVULSIVE
Con*vul"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. convulsif.]

Defn: Producing, or attended with, convulsions or spasms;
characterized by convulsions; convulsionary.
An irregular, convulsive movement may be necessary to throw off an
irregular, convulsive disease. Burke.

CONVULSIVELY
Con*vul"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: in a convulsive manner.

CONY
Co"ny ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [OE. coning, conig, coni, OF. connin,
conin, connil, fr. L. cuniculus a rabbit, cony, prob. an Hispanic
word.] [Written also coney.]

1. (Zoöl.)
(a) A rabbit, esp., the European rabbit (Lepus cuniculus).
(b) The chief hare.

Note: The cony of Scripture is thought to be Hyrax Syriacus, called
also daman, and cherogril. See Daman.

2. A simpleton. [Obs.]
It is a most simple animal; whence are derived our usual phrases of
cony and cony catcher. Diet's Dry Dinner (1599).

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) An important edible West Indian fish (Epinephelus apua); the hind
of Bermuda.
(b) A local name of the burbot. [Eng.]

CONY-CATCH
Co"ny-catch, v. t.

Defn: To deceive; to cheat; to trick. [Obs.]
Take heed, Signor Baptista, lest you be cony-catched in the this
business. Shak.

CONY-CATCHER
Co"ny-catch`er, n.

Defn: A cheat; a sharper; a deceiver. [Obs.] Minsheu.

CONYLENE
Con"y*lene, n. Etym: [Conine + acetylene.]

Defn: An oily substance, C8H14, obtained from several derivatives of
conine.

CONYRINE
Con"y*rine, n. Etym: [From Conine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A blue, fluorescent, oily base (regarded as a derivative of
pyridine), obtained from conine.

COO
Coo, v. i. [imp. & p.p. Cooed; p.pr. & vb.n. Cooing.]

1. To make a low repeated cry or sound, like the characteristic note
of pigeons or doves.
The stockdove only through the forest cooes, Mournfully hoarse.
Thomson.

2. To show affection; to act in a loving way. See under Bill, v. i.
"Billing or cooing." Byron.

COOEY; COOEE
Coo"ey, Coo"ee, n. Etym: [Of imitative origin.]

Defn: A peculiar whistling sound made by the Australian aborigenes as
a call or signal. [Written also cooie.]

COOK
Cook, v. i. Etym: [Of imitative origin.]

Defn: To make the noise of the cuckoo. [Obs. or R.]
Constant cuckoos cook on every side. The Silkworms (1599).

COOK
Cook, v. t. Etym: [Etymol. unknown.]

Defn: To throw. [Prov.Eng.] "Cook me that ball." Grose.

COOK
Cook, n. Etym: [AS. coc, fr. l. cocus, coquus, coquus, fr. coquere to
cook; akin to Gr. pac, and to E. apricot, biscuit, concoct,
dyspepsia, precocious. Cf. Pumpkin.]

1. One whose occupation is to prepare food for the table; one who
dresses or cooks meat or vegetables for eating.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish, the European striped wrasse.

COOK
Cook, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Cooked; p.pr & vb.n. Cooking.]

1. To prepare, as food, by boiling, roasting, baking, broiling, etc.;
to make suitable for eating, by the agency of fire or heat.

2. To concoct or prepare; hence, to tamper with or alter; to garble;
-- often with up; as, to cook up a story; to cook an account.
[Colloq.]
They all of them receive the same advices from abroad, and very often
in the same words; but their way of cooking it is so different.
Addison.

COOK
Cook, v. i.

Defn: To prepare food for the table.

COOKBOOK
Cook"book`, n.

Defn: A book of directions and receipts for cooking; a cookery book.
[U.S.]
"Just How": a key to the cookbooks. Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney.

COOKEE
Cook*ee", n.

Defn: A female cook. [R.]

COOKERY
Cook"er*y, n.

1. The art or process of preparing food for the table, by dressing,
compounding, and the application of heat.

2. A delicacy; a dainty. [Obs.] R. North.

COOKEY; COOKIE
Cook"ey, Cook"ie, n.

Defn: See Cooky.

COOKMAID
Cook"maid`, n.

Defn: A female servant or maid who dresses provisions and assists the
cook.

COOKROOM
Cook"room`, n.

Defn: A room for cookery; a kitchen; the galley or caboose of a ship.
Sir W. Raleigh.

COOKSHOP
Cook`shop, n.

Defn: An eating house. "A subterranean cookshop." Macaulay.

COOKY
Cook"y, n.; pl. Cookies. Etym: [Cf. D. koek cake, dim. koekje; akin
to G. kuchen, E. cake; or cf. OE. coket, prob., a sort of cake, and
prob. of French origin.]

Defn: A small, flat, sweetened cake of various kinds.

COOL
Cool, a. [Compar. Cooler; superl. Coolest.] Etym: [AS. col; akin to
D. koel, G. kühl, OHG. chouli, Dan. kölig, Sw. kylig, also to AS.
calan to be cold, Icel. kala. See Cold, and cf. Chill.]

1. Moderately cold; between warm and cold; lacking in warmth;
producing or promoting coolness.
Fanned with cool winds. Milton.

2. Not ardent, warm, fond, or passionate; not hasty; deliberate;
exercising self-control; self-possessed; dispassionate; indifferent;
as, a cool lover; a cool debater.
For a patriot, too cool. Goldsmith.

3. Not retaining heat; light; as, a cool dress.

4. Manifesting coldness or dislike; chilling; apathetic; as, a cool
manner.

5. Quietly impudent; negligent of propriety in matters of minor
importance, either ignorantly or willfully; presuming and selfish;
audacious; as, cool behavior.
Its cool stare of familiarity was intolerable. Hawthorne.

6. Applied facetiously, in a vague sense, to a sum of money, commonly
as if to give emphasis to the largeness of the amount.
He had lost a cool hundred. Fielding.
Leaving a cool thousand to Mr.Matthew Pocket. Dickens.

Syn.
 -- Calm; dispassionate; self-possessed; composed; repulsive; frigid;
alienated; impudent.

COOL
Cool, n.

Defn: A moderate state of cold; coolness; -- said of the temperature
of the air between hot and cold; as, the cool of the day; the cool of
the morning or evening.

COOL
Cool, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Cooled; p.pr. & vb.n. Cooling.]

1. To make cool or cold; to reduce the temperature of; as, ice cools
water.
Send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and
cool my tongue. Luke xvi. 24.

2. To moderate the heat or excitement of; to allay, as passion of any
kind; to calm; to moderate.
We have reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal stings, our
unbitted lusts. Shak.
To cool the heels, to dance attendance; to wait, as for admission to
a patron's house. [Colloq.] Dryden.

COOL
Cool, v. i.

1. To become less hot; to lose heat.
I saw a smith stand with his hammer, thus, the whilst his iron did on
the anvil cool. Shak.

2. To lose the heat of excitement or passion; to become more
moderate.
I will not give myself liberty to think, lest I should cool.
Congreve.

COOLER
Cool"er, n.

Defn: That which cools, or abates heat or excitement.
if acid things were used only as coolers, they would not be so proper
in this case. Arbuthnot.

2. Anything in or by which liquids or other things are cooled, as an
ice chest, a vessel for ice water, etc.

COOL-HEADED
Cool"-head`ed, a.

Defn: Having a temper not easily excited; free from passion.
 -- Cool"-head`ed*ness, n.

COOLIE
Coo"lie, n.

Defn: Same as Cooly.

COOLING
Cool"ing, p.a.

Defn: Adapted to cool and refresh; allaying heat. "The cooling
brook." Goldsmith. Cooling card, something that dashes hopes. [Obs.]
-- Cooling time (Law), such a lapse of time as ought, taking all the
circumstances of the case in view, to produce a subsiding of passion
previously provoked. Wharton.

COOLISH
Cool"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat cool.
The nights began to grow a little coolish. Goldsmith.

COOLLY
Cool"ly, a.

Defn: Coolish; cool. [Obs.] Spenser.

COOLLY
Cool"ly, adv.

Defn: In a cool manner; without heat or excessive cold; without
passion or ardor; calmly; deliberately; with indifference;
impudently.

COOLNESS
Cool"ness, n.

1. The state of being cool; a moderate degree of cold; a moderate
degree, or a want, of passion; want of ardor, zeal, or affection;
calmness.

2. Calm impudence; self-possession. [Colloq.]

COOLUNG
Coo"lung, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The great gray crane of India (Grus cinerea). [Also written
coolen and cullum.]

COOLY; COOLIE
Coo"ly, Coo"lie, n.; pl. Coolies. Etym: [Hind. k a laborer, porter:
cf. Turk. k, ky, slave.]

Defn: An East Indian porter or carrier; a laborer transported from
the East Indies, China, or Japan, for service in some other country.

COOM
Coom, n. Etym: [Cf. G. kahm mold gathered on liquids, D. kam, Sw.
kimrök pine soot, smoke black, Icel. kam grime, film of dirt.]

Defn: Soot; coal dust; refuse matter, as the dirty grease which comes
from axle boxes, or the refuse at the mouth of an oven. Phillips.
Bailey.

COOMB
Coomb, n. Etym: [AS. cumb a liquid measure, perh. from LL. cumba
boat, tomb of stone, fr. Gr. kumpf bowl.]

Defn: A dry measure of four bushels, or half a quarter. [Written also
comb.]

COOMB; COOMBE
Coomb, Coombe, n. Etym: [See Comb, Combe, in this sense.]

Defn: A hollow in a hillside. [Prov. Eng.] See Comb, Combe.

COON
Coon, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A raccoon. See Raccoon.

COONCAN
Coon"can, n. [Corrupt of conquian.]

Defn: A game of cards derived from conquian, played by two or more
players with one or two full packs of cards.

COONTIE
Coon"tie, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A cycadaceous plant of Florida and the West Indies, the Zamia
integrifolia, from the stems of which a kind of sago is prepared.

COOP
Coop, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. cypa a measure, D. kuip tub, Icel. kupa bowl,
G. kufe coop tub; all fr. L. cupa vat, tub, LL. cupa, copa, cup. See
Cup, and cf. Keeve.]

1. A barrel or cask for liquor. [Obs.] Johnson.

2. An inclosure for keeping small animals; a pen; especially, a
grated box for confining poultry.

3. A cart made close with boarde; a tumbrel. [Scotch]

COOP
Coop, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Cooped; p.pr. & vb.n. Cooping.]

Defn: To confine in a coop; hence, to shut up or confine in a narrow
compass; to cramp; -- usually followed by up, sometimes by in.
The Trojans coopet within their walls so long. Dryden.
The contempt of all other knowledge . . . coops the understanding up
within narrow bounds. Locke.

2. To work upon in the manner of a cooper. [Obs.] "Shaken tubs . . .
be new cooped." Holland.

Syn.
 -- To crowd; confine; imprison.

COOPEE
Coo*pee", n.

Defn: See Coupe. [Obs.] Johnson.

COOPER
Coop"er, n. Etym: [From Coop.]

Defn: One who makes barrels, hogsheads, casks, etc.

COOPER
Coop"er, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Coopered; p.pr. & vb.n. Coopering.]

Defn: To do the work of a cooper upon; as, to cooper a cask or
barrel.

COOPERAGE
Coop"er*age, n.

1. Work done by a cooper.

2. The price paid for coopers; work.

3. A place where coopers' work is done.

COOPERANT
Co*öp"er*ant, a. Etym: [Cf. F. coopérant.]

Defn: Operating together; as, coöperant forces.

COOPERATE
Co*öp"er*ate, v. i. [imp. & p.p. Coöperated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Coöperating.] Etym: [L. coöperatus, p.p. of coöperari to coöperate;
co + operari to work, opus work. See Operate.]

Defn: To act or operate jointly with another or others; to concur in
action, effort, or effect.
Whate'er coöperates to the common mirth. Crashaw.

COOPERATION
Co*öp`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. coöperatio: cf. F. coopération.]

1. The act of coöperating, or of operating together to one end; joint
operation; concurrent effort or labor.
Not holpen by the coöperation of angels. Bacon.

2. (Polit. Econ.)

Defn: The association of a number of persons for their benefit.

COOPERATIVE
Co*öp"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Operating jointly to the same end. Coöperative society, a
society established on the principle of a joint-stock association,
for the production of commodities, or their purchase and distribution
for consumption, or for the borrowing and lending of capital among
its members.
 -- Coöperative store, a store established by a coöperative society,
where the members make their purchases and share in the profits or
losses.

COOPERATOR
Co*öp"er*a`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. coopérateur.]

Defn: One who labors jointly with others to promote the same end.
"Coöperators with the truth." Boyle.

COOPERING
Coop"er*ing, n.

Defn: Work done by a cooper in making or repairing barrels, casks,
etc.; the business of a cooper.

COOPERY
Coop"er*y, a.

Defn: Relating to a cooper; coopered. [Obs.]
Coopery vessels made of wood. Holland.

COOPERY
Coop"er*y, n.

Defn: The occupation of a cooper. Crabb.

COOPT
Co*öpt", v. t. Etym: [See Coöptate. Cf. F. coopter.]

Defn: To choose or elect in concert with another. [R.]
Each of the hundred was to coöpt three others. Jowett (Thysyd. ).

COOPTATE
Co*öp"tate, v. t. Etym: [L. coöptatus, p.p. of coötare to elect to
something; co- + optare to choose.]

Defn: To choose; to elect; to coöpt. [Obs.] Cockeram.

COOPTATION
Co`öp*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. coöptatio.]

Defn: The act of choosing; selection; choice. [Obs.]
The first election and coöptation of a friend. Howell.

COORDAIN
Co`ör*dain, v. t.

Defn: To ordain or appoint for some purpose along with another.

COORDINANCE
Co*ör"di*nance, n.

Defn: Joint ordinance.

COORDINATE
Co*ör"di*nate, a. Etym: [Pref. co- + L. ordinatus, p.p. of ordinare
to regulate. See Ordain.]

Defn: Equal in rank or order; not subordinate.
Whether there was one Supreme Governor of the world, or many
coördinate powers presiding over each country. Law.
Conjunctions joint sentences and coördinate terms. Rev. R. Morris.
Coördinate adjectives, adjectives disconnected as regards ane
another, but referring equally to the same subject.
 -- Coördinate conjunctions, conjunctions joining independent
propositions. Rev. R. Morris.

COORDINATE
Co*ör"di*nate , v. t. [imp. & p.p. Coördinated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Coördinating.]

1. To make coördinate; to put in the same order or rank; as, to
coördinate ideas in classification.

2. To give a common action, movement, or condition to; to regulate
and combine so as to produce harmonious action; to adjust; to
harmonize; as, to coördinate muscular movements.

COORDINATE
Co*ör"di*nate, n.

1. A thing of the same rank with another thing; one two or more
persons or things of equal rank, authority, or importance.
It has neither coördinate nor analogon; it is absolutely one.
Coleridge.

2. pl. (Math.)

Defn: Lines, or other elements of reference, by means of which the
position of any point, as of a curve, is defined with respect to
certain fixed lines, or planes, called coördinate axes and coördinate
planes. See Abscissa.

Note: Coördinates are of several kinds, consisting in some of the
different cases, of the following elements, namely: (a) (Geom. of Two
Dimensions) The abscissa and ordinate of any point, taken together;
as the abscissa PY and ordinate PX of the point P (Fig. 2, referred
to the coördinate axes AY and AX. (b) Any radius vector PA (Fig. 1),
together with its angle of inclination to a fixed line, APX, by which
any point A in the same plane is referred to that fixed line, and a
fixed point in it, called the pole, P. (c) (Geom. of Three
Dimensions) Any three lines, or distances, PB, PC, PD (Fig. 3), taken
parallel to three coördinate axes, AX, AY, AZ, and measured from the
corresponding coördinate fixed planes, YAZ, XAZ, XAY, to any point in
space, P, whose position is thereby determined with respect to these
planes and axes. (d) A radius vector, the angle which it makes with a
fixed plane, and the angle which its projection on the plane makes
with a fixed line line in the plane, by which means any point in
space at the free extremity of the radius vector is referred to that
fixed plane and fixed line, and a fixed point in that line, the pole
of the radius vector. Cartesian coördinates. See under Cartesian.
 -- Geographical coördinates, the latitude and longitude of a place,
by which its relative situation on the globe is known. The height of
the above the sea level constitutes a third coördinate.
 -- Polar coördinates, coördinates made up of a radius vector and its
angle of inclination to another line, or a line and plane; as those
defined in (b) and (d) above.
 -- Rectangular coördinates, coördinates the axes of which intersect
at right angles.
 -- Rectilinear coördinates, coördinates made up of right lines.
Those defined in (a) and (c) above are called also Cartesian
coördinates.
 -- Trigonometrical or Spherical coördinates, elements of reference,
by means of which the position of a point on the surface of a sphere
may be determined with respect to two great circles of the sphere.
 -- Trilinear coördinates, coördinates of a point in a plane,
consisting of the three ratios which the three distances of the point
from three fixed lines have one to another.

COORDINATELY
Co*ör"di*nate*ly, adv.

Defn: In a coördinate manner.

COORDINATENESS
Co*ör"di*nate*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being coördinate; equality of rank or authority.

COORDINATION
Co*ör`di*na"tion, n.

1. The act of coördinating; the act of putting in the same order,
class, rank, dignity, etc.; as, the coördination of the executive,
the legislative, and the judicial authority in forming a government;
the act of regulating and combining so as to produce harmonious
results; harmonious adjustment; as, a coördination of functions.
"Coördination of muscular movement by the cerebellum." Carpenter.

2. The state of being coördinate, or of equal rank, dignity, power,
etc.
In this high court of parliament, there is a rare coördination of
power. Howell.

COORDINATIVE
Co*ör"di*na*tive, a. (Gram.)

Defn: Expressing coördination. J. W. Gibbs.

COOT
Coot, n. Etym: [Cf. D. koet, W. cwtair; cwta short, bodtailed + iar
hen; cf. cwtau ro dock. Cf. Cut.]

1. (Zoöl.)
(a) A wading bird with lobate toes, of the genus Fulica. The common
European or bald coot is F. atra (see under bald); the American is F.
Americana.
(b) The surf duck or scoter. In the United States all the species of
(Edemia are called coots. See Scoter. "As simple as a coot."
Halliwell.

2. A stupid fellow; a simpleton; as, a silly coot. [Colloq.]

COOTER
Coot"er, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) A fresh-water tortoise (Pseudemus concinna) of Florida.
(b) The box tortoise.

COOTFOOT
Coot`foot, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pharalope; -- so called because its toes are like the
coot's.

COOTHAY
Coo*thay", n.

Defn: A striped satin made in India. McElrath.

COP
Cop, n. Etym: [AS. cop; cf. G. kopf head. Cf. Cup, Cob.]

1. The top of a thing; the head; a crest. [Obs.]
Cop they used to call The tops of many hills. Dra

2. A conical or conical-ended mass of coiled thread, yarn, or roving,
wound upon a spindle, etc.

3. A tube or quill upon which silk is wound.

4. (Mil. Arch.)

Defn: same as Merlon.

5. A policeman. [Slang] Cop waste, a kind of cotton waste, composed
chiefly

COPAIBA; COPAIVA
Co*pai"ba, Co*pai"va, n. Etym: [Sp. & Pg., fr. Brazil. cupaúba.]
(Med.)

Defn: A more or less viscid, vellowish liquid, the bitter oleoresin
of several species of Copaifera, a genus of trees growing in South
America and the West Indies. It is stimulant and diuretic, and is
much used in affections of the mucous membranes; -- called also
balsam of copaiba. [Written also capivi.]

COPAL
Co"pal, Etym: [Sp., fr. Mexican copalli, Clavigero.]

Defn: A resinous substance flowing spontaneously from trees of
Zanzibar, Madagascar, and South America (Trachylobium Hornemannianum,
T. verrocosum, and Hymenæa Courbaril), and dug from earth where
forests have stood in Africa; -- used chiefly in making varnishes. Ur

COPALM
Co"palm`, n.

Defn: The yellowish, fragrant balsam yielded by the sweet gum; also,
the tree itself.

COPARCENARY
Co*par"ce*na*ry, n.; pl. Coparcenaries. Etym: [Pref. co- + parcenary]
(Law)

Defn: Partnership in inheritance; joint heirship; joint right of
sucession to an inheritance.

COPARCENER
Co*par"ce*ner, n. Etym: [Pref. co- + parcener.] (Law)

Defn: One who has an equal portion with others of an inheritance.
All the coparceners together make but one heir, and have but one
estate among them. blackstone.

COPARCENY
Co*par"ce*ny, n. Etym: [Abbrev. of Coparcenary.] (Law)

Defn: An equal share of an inheritance.

COPART
Co*part, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Compart]

Defn: To share. [Obs.]
For, of all miserias, I hold that chief Wretched to be, when none
coparts our grief. Webster (1661).

COPARTMENT
Co*part"ment, n.

Defn: A compartment. [Obs.] T. Warton.

COPARTNER
Co*part"ner, n.

Defn: One who is jointly concerned with one or more persons in
business, etc.; a partner; an associate; a partaker; a sharer.
the associates and copartners of our loss. Milton.

COPARTNERSHIP
Co*part"ner*ship, n.

1. The state of being a copartner or of having a joint interest in
any matter.

2. A partnership or firm; as, A. and B. have this day formed a
copartnership.

COPARTNERY
Co*part"ner*y, n.; pl. Copartneries (.

Defn: the state of being copartners in any undertaking. [R.]

COPATAIN
Cop"a*tain, a. Etym: [Formed fr. cop, in imitation of captain. See
Cop, Captain.]

Defn: Having a high crown, or a point or peak at top. [Obs.]
A copatain hat made on a Flemish block. Gascoigne.

COPATRIOT
Co*pa"tri*ot, n.

Defn: A joint patriot.

COPE
Cope, n. Etym: [A doublet of cape. See Cape, Cap.]

1. A covering for the head. [Obs.] Johnson.

2. Anything regarded as extended over the head, as the arch or
concave of the sky, the roof of a house, the arch over a door. "The
starry cope of heaven." Milton.

3. An ecclesiastical vestment or cloak, semicircular in form,
reaching from the shoulders nearly to the feet, and open in front
except at the top, whereit is united by a band or clasp. It is worn
in processions and on some other occasions. Piers plowman.
A hundred and sixty priests all in their copes. Bp. Burnet.

4. An ancient tribute due to the lord of the soil, out of the lead
mines in derbyshire, England.

5. (Founding)

Defn: The top part of a flask or mold; the outer part of a loam mold.
Knight. De Colange.

COPE
Cope, v. i.

Defn: To form a cope or arch; to bend or arch; to bow. [Obs.]
Some bending down and coping to ward the earth. Holland.

COPE
Cope, v. t. (Falconry)

Defn: To pare the beak or talons of (a hawk). J. H. Walsh.

COPE
Cope, v. i. [imp. & p.p. Coped; p.pr. & vb.n. Coping.] Etym: [OE.
copen, coupen, to buy, bargain, prob. from D. koopen to buy, orig.,
to bargain. See Chear.]

1. To exchange or barter. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. To encounter; to meet; to have to do with.
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man As e'er my conversation coped
withal. Shak.

3. To enter into or maintain a hostile contest; to struggle; to
combat; especially, to strive or contend on equal terms or with
success; to match; to equal; -- usually followed by with.
Host coped with host, dire was the din of war. Philips.
Their generals have not been able to cope with the troops of Athens.
Addison.

COPE
Cope, v. t.

1. To bargain for; to buy. [Obs.]

2. To make return for; to requite; to repay. [Obs.]
three thousand ducats due unto the Jew, We freely cope your courteous
pains withal. Shak.

3. To match one's self against; to meet; to encounter.
I love to cope him in these sullen fits. Shak.
They say he yesterday coped Hector in the battle, and struck him
down. Shak.

COPE-CHISEL
Cope"-chis`el, n.

Defn: A narrow chisel adapted for cutting a groove. Knight.

COPECK
Co"peck, n. Etym: [Russ. kopeika]

Defn: A Russian copper coin. See Kopeck.

COPED
Coped, a.

Defn: Clad in a cope.

COPELATA
Cop`e*la"ta, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Larvalla.

COPEMAN
Cope"man, n. Etym: [D. koopman, fr. koopen to buy. See Cope, v. i.
Chapman.]

Defn: A chapman; a dealer; a merchant. [Obs.]
He would have sold his part of paradise For ready money, had he met a
copeman. B. Jonson.

COPENHAGEN
Co`pen*ha"gen, n. [From Copenhagen, Denmark.]

1.

Defn: A sweetened hot drink of spirit and beaten eggs.

2.  A children's game in which one player is inclosed by a circle of
others holding a rope.

COPEPOD
Cop"e*pod, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Copepoda.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Copepoda.

COPEPODA
Co*pep"o*da, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Entomastraca, including many minute Crustacea, both
freshwater and marine.

Note: They have a distinct carapace. The eggs are carried in a pair
of external pouches. Some are parasites of fishes.

COPERNICAN
Co*per"ni*can, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Copernicus, a Prussian by birth (b. 1473, d.
1543), who taught the world the solar system now received, called the
Copernican system.

COPESMATE
Copes"mate`, n.

Defn: An associate or companion; a friend; a partner. [Obs.]
Misshapen time, copesmate of ugly Night. Shak.

COPESTONE
Cope"stone`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A stone for coping. See Coping.

COPIER
Cop"i*er, n. Etym: [From. Copy.]

1. One who copies; one who writes or transcribes from an original; a
transcriber.

2. An imitator; one who imitates an example; hence, a plagiarist.

COPING
Cop"ing, n. Etym: [See Cope, n.] (Arch.)

Defn: The highest or covering course of masonry in a wall, often with
sloping edges to carry off water; -- sometimes called capping. Gwill.

COPIOUS
Co"pi*ous, a. Etym: [L. copiosus, fr. copia abundance: cf. F.
copieux. See Copy, Opulent.]

Defn: Large in quantity or amount; plentiful; abundant; fruitful.
Kindly pours its copious treasures forth. Thomson.
Hail, Son of God, Savior of men! thy name Shall be the copious matter
of my song. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Ample; abundant; plentiful; plenteous; rich; full; exuberant;
overflowing; full. See Ample.

COPIOUSLY
Co"pi*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a copious manner.

COPIOUSNESS
Co"pi*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being copious; abudance; plenty; also,
diffuseness in style.
To imitatethe copiousness of Homer. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Abudance; plenty; richness; exuberance.

COPIST
Cop"ist, n. Etym: [F. copiste. See Copy.]

Defn: A copier. [Obs.] "A copist after nature." Shaftesbury.

COPLANAR
Co*plan"ar, a. Etym: [Pref. co- + plane.] (Math.)

Defn: Situated in one plane.

COPLAND
Cop"land`, n. Etym: [Cop + land.]

Defn: A piece of ground terminating in a point or acute angle. [Obs.]

COPORTION
Co*por"tion, n.

Defn: Equal share. [Obs.]
Myself will bear . . . coportion of your pack. Spenser.

COPPED
Copped, a. Etym: [From Cop.]

Defn: Rising to a point or head; conical; pointed; crested. Wiseman.

COPPEL
Cop"pel, n. & v.

Defn: See Cupel.

COPPER
Cop"per, n. Etym: [OE. coper (cf. D. koper, Sw. koppar, Dan. kobber,
G. kupfer), LL. cuper, fr. L. cuprum for earlier Cyprium, Cyprium
aes, i.e., Cyprian brass, fr. Gr. Cypreous.]

1. A common metal of a reddish color, both ductile and malleable, and
very tenacious. It is one of the best conductors of heat and
electricity. Symbol Cu. Atomic weight 63.3. It is one of the most
useful metals in itself, and also in its alloys, brass and bronze.

Note: Copper is the only metal which occurs native abundantly in
large masses; it is found also in various ores, of which the most
important are chalcopyrite, chalcocite, cuprite, and malachite.
Copper mixed with tin forms bell metal; with a smaller proportion,
bronze; and with zinc, it forms brass, pinchbeck, and other alloys.

2. A coin made of copper; a penny, cent, or other minor coin of
copper. [Colloq.]
My friends filled my pockets with coppers. Franklin.

3. A vessel, especially a large boiler, made of copper.

4. pl. Specifically (Naut.),

Defn: the boilers in the galley for cooking; as, a ship's coppers.

Note: Copper is often used adjectively, commonly in the sense of made
or consisting of copper, or resembling copper; as, a copper boiler,
tube, etc.
All in a hot and copper sky. Coleridge.

Note: It is sometimes written in combination; as, copperplate,
coppersmith, copper-colored. Copper finch. (Zoöl.) See Chaffinch.
 -- Copper glance, or Vitreous copper. (Min.) See Chalcocite.
 -- Indigo copper. (Min.) See Covelline.

COPPER
Cop"per, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Coppered; p.pr. & vb.n. Coppering.]

Defn: To cover or coat with copper; to sheathe with sheets of copper;
as, to copper a ship.

COPPERAS
Cop"per*as, n. Etym: [OE. coperose, F. couperose, fr. (assumed) L.
cuprirosa, equiv. to G. cha`lkanqos, i. e. copper flower, vitriol.
See Copper and Rose.]

Defn: Green vitriol, or sulphate of iron; a green crystalline
substance, of an astringent taste, used in making ink, in dyeing
black, as a tonic in medicine, etc. It is made on a large scale by
the oxidation of iron pyrites. Called also ferrous sulphate.

Note: The term copperas was formerly synonymous with vitriol, and
included the green, blue, and white vitriols, or the sulphates of
iron, copper, and zinc.

COPPER-BOTTOMED
Cop"per-bot`tomed, a.

Defn: Having a bottom made of copper, as a tin boiler or other
vessel, or sheathed with copper, as a ship.

COPPER-FACED
Cop"per-faced`, a.

Defn: Faced or covered with copper; as, copper-faced type.

COPPER-FASTENED
Cop"per-fas`tened, a.

Defn: Fastened with copper bolts, as the planks of ships, etc.; as, a
copper-fastened ship.

COPPERHEAD
Cop"per*head`, n. Etym: [From its color.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A poisonous American serpent (Ancistrodon conotortrix), closely
allied to the rattlesnake, but without rattles; -- called also
copper-belly, and red viper.

2. A nickname applied to a person in the Northern States who
sympathized with the South during the Civil War. [U.S.]

COPPERING
Cop"per*ing, n.

1. The act of covering with copper.

2. An envelope or covering of copper.

COPPERISH
Cop"per*ish, a.

Defn: Containing, or partaking of the nature of, copper; like copper;
as, a copperish taste.

COPPER-NICKEL
Cop"per-nick`el, n. (Min.)

Defn: Nicolite.

COPPER-NOSE
Cop"per-nose, n.

Defn: A red nose. Shak.

COPPERPLATE
Cop"per*plate, n.
(a) A plate of polished copper on which a design or writing is
engraved.
(b) An impression on paper taken from such a plate.

Note: In printing from a copper- or steel plate the lines are filled
with ink, the surface of the plate is wiped clean, the paper laid
upon it, and the impression taken by pressing it under the roller of
a plate press. Copperplate press. See Plate press, under Plate.

COPPERSMITH
Cop"per*smith, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to manufacture copper utensils; a
worker in copper.

COPPER WORKS
Cop"per works.

Defn: A place where copper is wrought or manufactured. Woodward.

COPPERWORM
Cop"per*worm, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The teredo; -- so called because it injures the bottoms of
vessels, where not protected by copper.
(b) The ringworm.

COPPERY
Cop"per*y, a.

Defn: Mixed with copper; containing copper, or made of copper; like
copper.

COPPICE
Cop"pice, n. Etym: [OF. copeiz, fr. coper, couper, to cut, F. couper,
fr. cop, coup, colp, a blow, F. coup, L. colaphus, fr. G. Copse, and
cf. Coup, Coupee.]

Defn: A grove of small growth; a thicket of brushwood; a wood cut at
certain times for fuel or other purposes. See Copse.
The rate of coppice lands will fall, upon the discovery of coal
mines. Locke.

COPPIN
Cop"pin, n.Etym: [See Cop.]

Defn: A cop of thread.

COPPLE
Cop"ple, n. Etym: [A dim. of Cop.]

Defn: Something rising in a conical shape; specifically, a hill
rising to a point.
A low cape, and upon it a copple not very high. Hakluyt.

COPPLE-CROWN
Cop"ple-crown, n.

Defn: A created or high-topped crown or head. "Like the copple-crown
the lapwing has." T. Randolph.
 -- Cop"ple-crowned`, a.

COPPLED
Cop"pled, a. Etym: [From Copple.]

Defn: Rising to a point; conical; copped. [Obs.] Woodward.

COPPLE DUST
Cop"ple dust`.

Defn: Cupel dust. [Obs.]
Powder of steel, or copple dust. Bacon.

COPPLESTONE
Cop"ple*stone`, n.

Defn: A cobblestone. [Obs.]

COPPS
Copps, n.

Defn: See Copse. [Obs.]

COPRA
Co"pra, n. Etym: [Malayálam koppara or Hind. khopra.] (Com.)

Defn: The dried meat of the cocoanut, from which cocoanut oil is
expressed. [Written also cobra, copperah, coppra.]

COPROLITE
Cop"ro*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. ko`pros dung + -lite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A piece of petrified dung; a fossil excrement.

COPROLITIC
Cop`ro*lit"ic, a.

Defn: Containing, pertaining to, or of the nature of, coprolites.

COPROPHAGAN
Co*proph"a*gan, n. Etym: [See Coprophagous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of beetle which feeds upon dung.

COPROPHAGOUS
Co*proph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feeding upon dung, as certain insects.

COP-ROSE
Cop-rose`, n. Etym: [F. coprose, of uncertain origin; cf. D.
klaproos, klapperroos.]

Defn: The red, or corn, poppy. [Written also cup-rose.]

COPS
Cops, n. Etym: [AS. cops, cosp, fetter.]

Defn: The connecting crook of a harrow. [Prov. Eng.]

COPSE
Copse, n. Etym: [Contr. from coppice.]

Defn: A wood of small growth; a thicket of brushwood. See Coppice.
Near yonder copse where once the garden smiled. Goldsmith.

COPSE
Copse, v. t.

1. To trim or cut; -- said of small trees, brushwood, tufts of grass,
etc. Halliwell.

2. To plant and preserve, as a copse. Swift.

COPSEWOOD
Copse"wood, n.

Defn: Brushwood; coppice. Macaulay.

COPSY
Cops"y, a.

Defn: Characterized by copses. "Copsy villages." "Copsy banks." J.
Dyer.

COPTIC
Cop"tic, a. Etym: [Abbrev. from L. Aegyptius an Egyprian, Gr. kibti,
pl. kibt.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Copts.
 -- n.

Defn: The language of the Copts.

COPTIC CHURCH
Coptic Church.

Defn: The native church of Egypt or church of Alexandria, which in
general organization and doctrines resembles the Roman Catholic
Church, except that it holds to the Monophysitic doctrine which was
condemned (a. d. 451) by the council of Chalcedon, and allows its
priests to marry. The "pope and patriarch" has jurisdiction over the
Abyssinian Church. Since the 7th century the Coptic Church has been
so isolated from modifying influences that in many respects it is the
most ancient monument of primitive Christian rites and ceremonies.
But centuries of subjection to Moslem rule have weakened and degraded
it.

COPTS
Copts, n. pl.; sing. Copt. Etym: [See Coptic.] (Etnol.)

1. An Egyptian race thought to be descendants of the ancient
Egyptians.

2. The principal sect of Christians in Egypt and the valley of the
Nile.

Note: they belong to the Jacobite sect of Monophysite Christians, and
for eleven centuries have had possession of the patriarchal chair of
Alexandria.

COPULA
Cop"u*la, n. Etym: [L., bond, band. See Couple.]

1. (Logic & Gram.)

Defn: The word which unites the subject and predicate.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The stop which connects the manuals, or the manuals with the
pedals; -- called also coupler.

COPULATE
Cop"u*late, a. Etym: [L. copulatus, p.p. of copulare to couple, fr.
copula. See Copula.]

1. Joined; associated; coupled. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Joining subject and predicate; copulative. F. A. March.

COPULATE
Cop"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p.p. Copulated; p.pr. & vb.n. Copulating.]

Defn: To unite in sexual intercourse; to come together in the act of
generation.

COPULATION
Cop`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. copulatio: cf. F. copulation.]

1. The act of coupling or joining; union; conjunction.
Wit, you know, is the unexpected copulation of ideas. Johnson.

2. The coming together of male and female in the act of generation;
sexual union; coition.

COPULATIVE
Cop"u*la"tive, a. Etym: [L. copulativus: cf. F. copulatif.]

Defn: Serving to couple, unite, or connect; as, a copulative
conjunction like "and".

COPULATIVE
Cop"u*la*tive, n.

1. Connection. [Obs.] Rycaut.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A copulative conjunction.

COPULATIVELY
Cop"u*la"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a copulative manner.

COPULATORY
Cop"u*la*tory, a.

1. Pertaining to copulation; tending or serving to unite; copulative.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Used in sexual union; as, the copulatory organs of insects.

COPY
Cop"y, n.; pl. Copies. Etym: [F. copie, fr. L. copia abundance,
number, LL. also, a transcript; co- + the root of opes riches. See
Opulent, and cf. Copious.]

1. An abundance or plenty of anything. [Obs.]
She was blessed with no more copy of wit, but to serve his humor
thus. B. Jonson.

2. An imitation, transcript, or reproduction of an original work; as,
a copy of a letter, an engraving, a painting, or a statue.
I have not the vanity to think my copy equal to the original. Denham.

3. An individual book, or a single set of books containing the works
of an author; as, a copy of the Bible; a copy of the works of
Addison.

4. That which is to be imitated, transcribed, or reproduced; a
pattern, model, or example; as, his virtues are an excellent copy for
imitation.
Let him first learn to write, after a copy, all the letters. Holder.

5. (print.)

Defn: Manuscript or printed matter to be set up in type; as, the
printers are calling for more copy.

6. A writing paper Bastard. See under Paper.

7. Copyhold; tenure; lease. [Obs.] Shak. Copy book, a book in which
copies are written or printed for learners to imitate.
 -- Examined copies (Law), those which have been compared with the
originals.
 -- Exemplified copies, those which are attested under seal of a
court.
 -- Certified or Office copies, those which are made or attested by
officers having charge of the originals, and authorized to give
copies officially. Abbot.

Syn.
 -- Imitation; transcript; duplicate; counterfeit.

COPY
Cop"y, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Copied; p.pr. & vb.n. Copying.] Etym: [Cf.
F. copir, fr. LL. copiare. See Copy, n.]

1. To make a copy or copies of; to write; print, engrave, or paint
after an original; to duplicate; to reproduce; to transcribe; as, to
copy a manuscript, inscription, design, painting, etc.; -- often with
out, sometimes with off.
I like the work well; ere it be demanded (As like enough it will),
I'd have it copied. Shak.
Let this be copied out, And keep it safe for our remembrance. Shak.

2. To imitate; to attempt to resemble, as in manners or course of
life.
We copy instinctively the voices of our companions, their accents,
and their modes of pronunciation. Stewart.

COPY
Cop"y, v. i.

1. To make a copy or copies; to imitate.

2. To yield a duplicate or transcript; as, the letter did not copy
well.
Some . . . never fail, when they copy, to follow the bad as well as
the good things. Dryden.

COPYER
Cop"y*er, n.

Defn: See Copier.

COPYGRAPH
Cop"y*graph, n.

Defn: A contrivance for producing manifold copies of a writing or
drawing.

Note: The writing or drawing is made with aniline ink on paper, and a
reverse copy transferred by pressure to a slab of gelatin softened
with glycerin. A large number of transcripts can be taken while the
ink is fresh.
Various names have been given to the process [the gelatin copying
process], some of them acceptable and others absurd; hectograph,
polygraph, copygraph, lithogram, etc. Knight.

COPYHOLD
Cop"y*hold`, n. (Eng. Law)
(a) A tenure of estate by copy of court roll; or a tenure for which
the tenant has nothing to show, except the rolls made by the steward
of the lord's court. Blackstone.
(b) Land held in copyhold. Milton.

Note: Copyholds do not exist in the United States.

COPYHOLDER
Cop"y*hold`er, n.

1. (Eng. Law)

Defn: One possessed of land in copyhold.

2. (print.)
(a) A device for holding copy for a compositor.
(b) One who reads copy to a proof reader.

COPYING
Cop"y*ing, a. & n.

Defn: From Copy, v. Copying ink. See under Ink.
 -- Copying paper, thin unsized paper used for taking copies of
letters, etc., in a copying press.
 -- Copying press, a machine for taking by pressure, an exact copy of
letters, etc., written in copying ink.

COPYIST
Cop"y*ist, n.

Defn: A copier; a transcriber; an imitator; a plagiarist.

COPYRIGHT
Cop"y*right, n.

Defn: The right of an author or his assignee, under statute, to print
and publish his literary or artistic work, exclusively of all other
persons. This right may be had in maps, charts, engravings, plays,
and musical compositions, as well as in books.

Note: In the United States a copyright runs for the term of twenty-
eight years, with right of renewal for fourteen years on certain
conditions. International copyright, an author's right in his
productions as secured by treaty between nations.

COPYRIGHT
Cop"y*right`, v. t.

Defn: To secure a copyright on.

COQUE
Coque, n. [F., prop., a shell.]

Defn: A small loop or bow of ribbon used in making hats, boas, etc.

COQUELICOT
Coque"li*cot`, n. Etym: [F.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The wild poppy, or red corn rose.

2. The color of the wild poppy; a color nearly red, like orange mixed
with scarlet.

COQUET
Co*quet", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Coquetted; p.pr. & vb.n. Coquetting.]

Defn: To attempt to attract the notice, admiration, or love of; to
treat with a show of tenderness or regard, with a view to deceive and
disappoint.
You are coquetting a maid of honor. Swift.

COQUET
Co*quet", v. i.

Defn: To trifle in love; to stimulate affection or interest; to play
the coquette; to deal playfully instead of seriously; to play (with);
as, we have coquetted with political crime.

COQUETRY
Co*quet"ry, n.; pl. Coquetries. Etym: [F. coquetterie.]

Defn: Attempts to attract admoration, notice, or love, for the mere
gratification of vanity; trifling in love. "Little affectations of
coquetry." Addison.

COQUETTE
Co*quette", n. Etym: [F., fr. coquet, coquette, coquettish, orig.,
cocklike, strutting like a cock, fr. coq a cock. Cf. Cock, Cocket,
Cocky, Cockade.]

1. A vain, trifling woman, who endeavors to attract admiration from a
desire to grafity vanity; a flirt; -- formerly sometimes applied also
to men.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tropical humming bird of the genus Lophornis, with very
elegant neck plumes. Several species are known. See Illustration
under Spangle, v. t.

COQUETTISH
Co*quet"tish, a.

Defn: Practicing or exhibiting coquetry; alluring; enticing.
A pretty, coquettish housemaid. W. Irving.

COQUETTISHLY
Co*quet"tish*ly, adv.

Defn: In a coquettish manner.

COQUILLA NUT
Co*quil"la nut. Etym: [Pg. coquilho, Sp. coquillo, dim. of coco a
cocoanut.] (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of a Brazilian tree (Attalea funifera of Martius.).

Note: Its shell is hazel-brown in color, very hard and close in
texture, and much used by turners in forming ornamental articles,
such as knobs for umbrella handles.

COQUILLE
Co*quille" (ko*kel"; F. ko`ke"y'), n. [F.] Lit., a shell; hence:
 (a) A shell or shell-like dish or mold in which viands are served.
 (b) The expansion of the guard of a sword, dagger, etc.
 (c) A form of ruching used as a dress trimming or for neckwear, and
named from the manner in which it is gathered or fulled.
[Webster 1913 Suppl.]

COQUIMBITE
Co*quim"bite, n.

Defn: A mineral consisting principally of sulphate of iron; white
copperas; -- so called because found in the province of Coquimbo,
Chili.

COQUINA
Co*qui"na, n. Etym: [Sp., shellfish, cockle.]

Defn: A soft, whitish, coral-like stone, formed of broken shells and
corals, found in the southern United States, and used for roadbeds
and for building material, as in the fort at St. Augustine, Florida.

COR-
Cor-.

Defn: A prefix signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.

COR
Cor, n. Etym: [Heb. k.]

Defn: A Hebrew measure of capacity; a homer. [Written also core.]

CORA
Co"ra, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Arabian gazelle (Gazella Arabica), found from persia to
North Africa.

CORACLE
Cor"a*cle, n. Etym: [W. corwgl, cwrwgl, fr. corwg, cwrwg, any round
body or vessel, the trunk of the body, carcass.]

Defn: A boat made by covering a wicker frame with leather or
oilcloth. It was used by the ancient Britons, and is still used by
fisherman in Wales and some parts of Ireland. Also, a similar boat
used in Thibet and in Egypt.

CORACOID
Cor"a*coid, a.Etym: [Gr. ko`rax crow + e'i^dos form.]

1. Shaped like a crow's beak.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to a bone of the shoulder girdle in most birds,
reptiles, and amphibians, which is reduced to a process of the
scapula in most mammals.

CORACOID
Cor"a*coid, n.

Defn: The coracoid bone or process.

CORAGE
Cor"age (; OF. , n.

Defn: See Courage [Obs.]
To Canterbury with full devout corage. Chaucer.

CORAH
Co"rah, n. [Hind. kora virgin, plain.]

Defn: Plain; undyed; -- applied to Indian silk. -- n.

Defn: Corah silk.

CORAL
Cor"al, n. Etym: [Of. coral, F, corail, L. corallum, coralium, fr.
Gr. kora`llion.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hard parts or skeleton of various Anthozoa, and of a few
Hydrozoa. Similar structures are also formed by some Bryozoa.

Note: The large stony corals forming coral reefs belong to various
genera of Madreporaria, and to the hydroid genus, Millepora. The red
coral, used in jewelry, is the stony axis of the stem of a gorgonian
(Corallium rubrum) found chiefly in the Mediterranean. The fan
corals, plume corals, and sea feathers are species of Gorgoniacea, in
which the axis is horny. Organ-pipe coral is formed by the genus
Tubipora, an Alcyonarian, and black coral is in part the axis of
species of the genus Antipathes. See Anthozoa, Madrepora.

2. The ovaries of a cooked lobster; -- so called from their color.

3. A piece of coral, usually fitted with small bells and other
appurtenances, used by children as a plaything. Brain coral, or Brain
stone coral. See under Brain.
 -- Chain coral. See under Chain.
 -- Coral animal (Zoöl.), one of the polyps by which corals are
formed. They are often very erroneously called coral insects.
 -- Coral fish. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Coral reefs (Phys. Geog.), reefs, often of great extent, made up
chiefly of fragments of corals, coral sands, and the solid limestone
resulting from their consolidation. They are classed as fringing
reefs, when they border the land; barrier reefs, when separated from
the shore by a broad belt of water; atolls, when they constitute
separate islands, usually inclosing a lagoon. See Atoll.
 -- Coral root (Bot.), a genus (Corallorhiza) of orchideous plants,
of a yellowish or brownish red color, parasitic on roots of other
plants, and having curious jointed or knotted roots not unlike some
kinds of coral. See Illust. under Coralloid.
 -- Coral snake. (Zo) (a) A small, venomous, Brazilian snake (Elaps
corallinus), coral-red, with black bands. (b) A small, harmless,
South American snake (Tortrix scytale).
 -- Coral tree (Bot.), a tropical, leguminous plant, of several
species, with showy, scarlet blossoms and coral-red seeds. The best
known is Erythrina Corallodendron.
 -- Coral wood, a hard, red cabinet wood. McElrath.

CORALED
Cor"aled, a.

Defn: Having coral; covered with coral.

CORAL FISH
Cor"al fish`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bright-colored fish of the genera Chætodon, Pomacentrus,
Apogon, and related genera, which live among reef corals.

CORALLACEOUS
Cor`al*la"ceous, a.

Defn: Like coral, or partaking of its qualities.

CORALLIAN
Co*ral"li*an, n. (Geol.)

Defn: A deposit of coralliferous limestone forming a portion of the
middle division of the oölite; -- called also coral-rag.

CORALLIFEROUS
Cor`al*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. corallum coral + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing or producing coral.

CORALLIFORM
Cor"al*li*form, a. Etym: [L. corallum coral + -form.]

Defn: resembling coral in form.

CORALLIGENA
Cor`al*lig"e*na, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. corallum coral + root of
gignere to produce.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Anthozoa.

CORALLIGENOUS
Cor`al*lig"e*nous, a.

Defn: producing coral; coraligerous; coralliferous. Humble.

CORALLIGEROUS
Cor`al*lig"er*ous, a Etym: [L. corallum coral + -gerous.]

Defn: Producing coral; coraliferous.

CORALLIN
Cor"al*lin, n. Etym: [So named in allusion to the color of red
corallin, fr. L. corallum coral.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow coal-tar dyestuff which probably consists chiefly of
rosolic acid. See Aurin, and Rosolic acid under Rosolic. Red
corallin, a red dyestuff which is obtained by treating aurin or
rosolic acid with ammonia; -- called also pæonin.
 -- Yellow corallin. See Aurin.

CORALLINE
Cor"al*line ( or ), a. Etym: [Cf. L. corallinus coralred.]

Defn: Composed of corallines; as, coralline limestone.

CORALLINE
Cor"al*line, n. Etym: [Cf. F. coralline.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A submarine, semicalcareous or calcareous plant, consisting of
many jointed branches.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Formerly any slender coral-like animal; -- sometimes applied
more particulary to bryozoan corals.

CORALLINITE
Cor"al*lin*ite, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil coralline.

CORALLITE
Cor"al*lite, n. Etym: [L. corallum coral.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral substance or petrifaction, in the form of coral.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the individual members of a compound coral; or that part
formed by a single coral animal. [Written also corallet.]

CORALLOID
Cor"al*loid, a. Etym: [L. corallum coral + -oid: cf. F. coralloïde.]

Defn: Having the form of coral; branching like coral.

CORALLOIDAL
Cor`al*loid"al, a.

Defn: resembling coral; coralloid. Sir T. browne.

CORALLUM
Co*ral"lum, n. Etym: [L.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The coral or skeleton of a zoöphyte, whether calcareous of
horny, simple or compound. See Coral.

CORAL-RAG
Cor"al-rag`, n. (geol.)

Defn: Same as Corallian.

CORALWORT
Cor"al*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A cruciferous herb of certain species of Dentaria; -- called
also toothwort, tooth violet, or pepper root.

CORANACH
Cor"a*nach, n. Etym: [Gael. coranach, or corranach, a crying, the
Irish funeral cry (the keen), a dirge; comh with + ranaich a roaring,
ran to roar, shriek.]

Defn: A lamentation for the dead; a dirge. [Written also coranich,
corrinoch, coronach, cronach, etc.] [Scot.]

CORANT; CORANTO
Co*rant, Co*ran"to, n. Etym: [See Courant.]

Defn: A sprightly but somewhat stately dance, now out of fashion.
It is harder to dance a corant well, than a jig. Sir W. temple.
Dancing a coranto with him upon the heath. Macaulay.

CORB
Corb, n. Etym: [L. corbis basket. Cf. Corbeil, Corp.]

1. A basket used in coal mines, etc. see Corf.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament in a building; a corbel.

CORBAN
Cor"ban, n. Etym: [Heb. qorban, akin to Ar. qurban.]

1. (Jewish Antiq.) An offering of any kind, devoted to God and
therefore not be appropriated to any other use; esp., an offering in
fulfillment of a vow.

Note: In the old Testament the hebrew word is usually translated
"oblation" as in Numb. xviii. 9, xxxi. 50.

Note: The traditionists laid down that a man might interdict himself
by vow, not only from using for himself, but from giving to another,
or receiving from him, some particular object, whether of food or any
other kind. A person might thus exempt himself from assisting parents
in distress, under plea of corban. Dr. W. Smith.

2. An alms basket; a vessel to receive gifts of charity; a treasury
of the church, where offerings are deposited.

CORBE
Corbe, a. Etym: [OF. corbe, fr. L. curvus. See Cuve.]

Defn: Crooked. [Obs.] "Corbe shoulder." Spenser.

CORBEIL
Cor"beil, n. Etym: [F. corbeile, fr. L. corbicula a little basket,
dim. of corbis basket. Cf. Corbel, Corb, Corvette.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A sculptured basket of flowers; a corbel. [Obs.]

2. pl. (Fort.)

Defn: Small gabions. Brande & C.

CORBEL
Cor"bel, n. Etym: [F. corbeau, for older corbel, dim. of L. corbis
basket. (Corbels were often in the form of a basket.) See Corbeil.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A bracket supporting a superincumbent object, or receiving the
spring of an arch. Corbels were employed largely in Gothic
architecture.

Note: A common form of corbel consists of courses of stones or
bricks, each projecting slightly beyond the next below it.

CORBEL
Cor"bel, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with a corbel or corbels; to support by a corbel; to
make in the form of a corbel. To corbel out, to furnish with a corbel
of courses, each projecting beyond the one next below it.

CORBELING; CORBELLING
Cor"bel*ing, Cor"bel*ling, n.

Defn: Corbel work or the construction of corbels; a series of corbels
or piece of continuous corbeled masonry, sometimes of decorative
purpose, as in the stalactite ornament of the Moslems.

CORBEL-TABLE
Cor"bel-ta`ble, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A horizontal row of corbels, with the panels or filling between
them; also, less properly used to include the stringcourse on them.

CORBIE; CORBY
Cor"bie or Cor"by, n.; pl. Corbies. Etym: [F. corbeau, OF. corbel,
dim. fr. L. corvus raven.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The raven. [Scot.]

2. (her.)

Defn: A raven, crow, or chough, used as a charge. Corbie crow, the
carrion crow. [Scot.]

CORBIESTEP
Cor"bie*step`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: One of the steps in which a gable wall is often finished in
place of a continuous slope; -- also called crowstep.

CORCHORUS
Cor"cho*rus, n. Etym: [Nl., fr. L. corchorus a poor kind of pulse,
Gr. ko`rchoros a wild plant of bitter taste.] (Bot.)

Defn: The common name of the kerria Japonica or Japan globeflower, a
yellow-flowered, perennial, rosaceous plant, seen in old-fashioned
gardens.

CORCLE; CORCULE
Cor"cle, Cor"cule, n. Etym: [L. corculum a little heart, dim. of cor
heart.] (Bot.)

Defn: The heart of the seed; the embryo or germ. [Obs.]

CORD
Cord, n. Etym: [F. corde, L. chorda catgut, chord, cord, fr. Gr.
haruspex soothsayer (inspector of entrails), Icel. görn, pl. garnir
gut, and E. yarn. Cf. Chord, Yarn.]

1. A string, or small rope, composed of several strands twisted
together.

2. A solid measure, equivalent to 128 cubic feet; a pile of wood, or
other coarse material, eight feet long, four feet high, and four feet
broad; -- originally measured with a cord or line.

3. Fig.: Any moral influence by which persons are caught, held, or
drawn, as if by a cord; an enticement; as, the cords of the wicked;
the cords of sin; the cords of vanity.
The knots that tangle human creeds, The wounding cords that bind and
strain The heart until it bleeds. Tennyson.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: Any structure having the appearance of a cord, esp. a tendon or
a nerve. See under Spermatic, Spinal, Umbilical, Vocal.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: See Chord. [Obs.] Cord wood, wood for fuel cut to the length of
four feet (when of full measure).

CORD
Cord (krd), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Corded; p. pr. & vb. n. Cording.]

1. To bind with a cord; to fasten with cords; to connect with cords;
to ornament or finish with a cord or cords, as a garment.

2. To arrange (wood, etc.) in a pile for measurement by the cord.

CORDAGE
Cord"age (krd"j), n. Etym: [F. cordage. See Cord.]

Defn: Ropes or cords, collectively; hence, anything made of rope or
cord, as those parts of the rigging of a ship which consist of ropes.

CORDAL
Cord"al (krd"al), n.

Defn: Same as Cordelle.

CORDATE
Cordate (kr"dt), a. Etym: [L. cor, cordis, heart.] (Bot.)

Defn: Heart-shaped; as, a cordate leaf.

CORDATELY
Cor"date*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cordate form.

CORDED
Cord"ed (krd"d), a.

1. Bound or fastened with cords.

2. Piled in a form for measurement by the cord.

3. Made of cords. [Obs.] "A corded ladder." Shak.

4. Striped or ribbed with cords; as, cloth with a corded surface.

5. (Her.)

Defn: Bound about, or wound, with cords.

CORDELIER
Cor`de*lier" (kr`dlr"), n. Etym: [F., fr. OF. cordel, F. cordeau,
dim. fr. corde string, rope. See Cord.]

1. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A Franciscan; -- so called in France from the girdle of knotted
cord worn by all Franciscans.

2. (Fr. Hist.)

Defn: A member of a French political club of the time of the first
Revolution, of which Danton and Marat were members, and which met in
an old Cordelier convent in Paris.

CORDELING
Cor"del*ing (kr"dlng), a. Etym: [F. cordeler to twist, fr. OF.
cordel. See Cordelier.]

Defn: Twisting.

CORDELLE
Cor*delle" (kr-dl"), n. Etym: [F., dim. of corde cord.]

Defn: A twisted cord; a tassel. Halliwell.

CORDIAL
Cor"dial (kr"jal, formally krd"yal; 106, 277), a. Etym: [LL.
cordialis, fr. L. cor heart: cf. F. cordial. See Heart.]

1. Proceeding from the heart. [Obs.]
A rib with cordial spirits warm. Milton.

2. Hearty; sincere; warm; affectionate.
He . . . with looks of cordial love Hung over her enamored. Milton.

3. Tending to revive, cheer, or invigorate; giving strength or
spirits.
Behold this cordial julep here That flames and dances in his crystal
bounds. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Hearty; sincere; heartfelt; warm; affectionate; cheering;
invigorating. See Hearty.

CORDIAL
Cor"dial, n.

1. Anything that comforts, gladdens, and exhilarates.
Charms to my sight, and cordials to my mind. Dryden.

2. (Med)

Defn: Any invigorating and stimulating preparation; as, a peppermint
cordial.

3. (Com.)

Defn: Aromatized and sweetened spirit, used as a beverage; a liqueur.

CORDIALITY
Cor*dial"i*ty (k, n.; pl. Cordialities (-t. Etym: [LL. cordialitas,
fr. cordialis sincere: cf. F. cordialité.]

1. Relation to the heart. [Obs.]
That the ancients had any respect of cordiality or reference unto the
heart, will much be doubted. Sir T. Browne.

2. Sincere affection and kindness; warmth of regard; heartiness.
Motley.

CORDIALIZE
Cor"dial*ize (kr"jal-z or krd"yal-z; 106), v. t.

1. To make into a cordial.

2. To render cordial; to reconcile.

CORDIALIZE
Cor"dial*ize, v. i.

Defn: To grow cordial; to feel or express cordiality. [R.]

CORDIALLY
Cor"dial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cordial manner. Dr. H. More.

CORDIALNESS
Cor"dial*ness, n.

Defn: Cordiality. Cotgrave.

CORDIERITE
Cor"di*er*ite (k, n. Etym: [Named after the geologist Cordier.]
(Min.)

Defn: See Iolite.

CORDIFORM
Cor"di*form (kr"d-frm), a. Etym: [L. cor, cordis, heart + -form, cf.
F. cordiforme.]

Defn: Heart-shaped. Gray.

CORDILLERA
Cor*dil"ler*a (kr-dl"lr-; Sp. kr`d-ly"r), n. Etym: [Sp., fr. OSp.
cordilla, cordiella, dim. of cuerda a rope, string. See Cord.]
(Geol.)

Defn: A mountain ridge or chain.

Note: Cordillera is sometimes applied, in geology, to the system of
mountain chains near the border of a continent; thus, the western
cordillera of North America in the United States includes the Rocky
Mountains, Sierra Nevada, Coast and Cascade ranges.

CORDINER
Cor"di*ner (kr"d-nr), n.

Defn: A cordwainer. [Obs.]

CORDITE
Cord"ite, n. [From Cord, n.] (Mil.)

Defn: A smokeless powder composed of nitroglycerin, guncotton, and
mineral jelly, and used by the British army and in other services. In
making it the ingredients are mixed into a paste with the addition of
acetone and pressed out into cords  (of various diameters) resembling
brown twine, which are dried and cut to length. A variety containing
less nitroglycerin than the original is known  as cordite M. D.

CORDON
Cor"don (kr"dn; F. kr"dn"), n. Etym: [F., fr. corde. See Cord.]

1. A cord or ribbon bestowed or borne as a badge of honor; a broad
ribbon, usually worn after the manner of a baldric, constituting a
mark of a very high grade in an honorary order. Cf. Grand cordon.

2. The cord worn by a Franciscan friar. Sir E. Sandys.

3. (Fort.)

Defn: The coping of the scarp wall, which projects beyong the face of
the wall a few inches.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: A line or series of sentinels, or of military posts, inclosing
or guarding any place or thing.

5. A rich and ornamental lace or string, used to secure a mantle in
some costumes of state. Cordon bleu (kd" bl Etym: [F., blue cordon],
a first-rate cook, or one worthy to be the cook of the cordons bleus,
or Knights of the Holy Ghost, famous for their good dinners.
 -- Cordon sanitaire (kd" s Etym: [F., sanitary cordon], a line of
troops or military posts around a district infected with disease, to
cut off communication, and thus prevent the disease from spreading.

CORDONNET
Cor`don`net" (kr`dn`n"), n. Etym: [F., dim. of cordon. See Cardon.]

Defn: Doubled and twisted thread, made of coarse silk, and used for
tassels, fringes, etc. McElrath.

CORDOVAN
Cor"do*van (kr"d-vn), n. Etym: [Sp. cordoban, fr. Cordova, or
Cordoba, in Spain. Cf. Cordwain.]

Defn: Same as Cordwain. in England the name is applied to leather
made from horsehide.

CORDUROY
Cor"du*roy` (kr"d-roi` or kr"d-roi"), n. Etym: [Prob. for F. corde du
roi king's cord.]

1. A sort of cotton velveteen, having the surface raised in ridges.

2. pl.

Defn: Trousers or breeches of corduroy. Corduroy road, a roadway
formed of logs laid side by side across it, as in marshy places; --
so called from its rough or ribbed surface, resembling corduroy.
[U.S.]

CORDUROY
Cor"du*roy`, v. t.

Defn: To form of logs laid side by side. "Roads were corduroyed."
Gemn. W.T. Sherman.

CORDWAIN
Cord"wain (krd"wn), n. Etym: [OE. cordewan, cordian, OF. cordoan,
cordouan, fr. Sp. cordoban. See Cordovan.]

Defn: A term used in the Middle Ages for Spanish leather (goatskin
tanned and dressed), and hence, any leather handsomely finished,
colored, gilded, or the like.
Buskins he wore of costliest cordwain. Spenser.

CORDWAINER
Cord"wain*er (-r), n. Etym: [OE. cordwaner, cordiner, fr. OF.
cordoanier, cordouanier, F. cordonnier.]

Defn: A worker in cordwain, or cordovan leather; a shoemaker.
[Archaic.]

CORDY
Cord"y (kôr"dy), a. [Compar. Cordier; superl. Cordiest.]

Defn: Of, or like, cord; having cords or cordlike parts.

CORE
Core (kr), n. Etym: [F. corps. See Corps.]

Defn: A body of individuals; an assemblage. [Obs.]
He was in a core of people. Bacon.

CORE
Core, n. Etym: [Cf. Chore.] (Mining.)

Defn: A miner's underground working time or shift. Raymond.

Note: The twenty-four hours are divided into three or four cores.

CORE
Core, n. Etym: [Heb. k: cf. Gr.

Defn: A Hebrew dry measure; a cor or homer. Num. xi. 32 (Douay
version).

CORE
Core, n. Etym: [OF. cor, coer, cuer, F. c, fr. L. cor heart. See
Heart.]

1. The heart or inner part of a thing, as of a column, wall, rope, of
a boil, etc.; especially, the central part of fruit, containing the
kernels or seeds; as, the core of an apple or quince.
A fever at the core, Fatal to him who bears, to all who ever bore.
Byron.

2. The center or inner part, as of an open space; as, the core of a
ssquare. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.

3. The most important part of a thing; the essence; as, the core of a
subject.

4. (Founding)

Defn: The prtion of a mold which shapes the interior of a cylinder,
tube, or other hollow casting, or which makes a hole in or through a
casting; a part of the mold, made separate from and inserted in it,
for shaping some part of the casting, the form of which is not
determined by that of the pattern.

5. A disorder of sheep occasioned by worms in the liver. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

6. (Anat.)

Defn: The bony process which forms the central axis of the horns in
many animals. Core box (Founding), a box or mold, usually divisible,
in which cores are molded.
 -- Core print (Founding), a projecting piece on a pattern which
forms, in the mold, an impression for holding in place or steadying a
core.

CORE
Core, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cord (krd); p. pr. & vb. n. Coring.]

1. To take out the core or inward parts of; as, to core an apple.
He's likee a corn upon my great toe . . . he must be cored out.
Marston.

2. To form by means of a core, as a hole in a casting.

CO-REGENT
Co-re"gent (k-r"jent), n.

Defn: A joint regent or ruler.

CO-RELATION
Co`-re*la"tion (k`r-l"shn), n.

Defn: Corresponding relation.

CO-RELIGIONIST
Co`-re*li"gion*ist (-lj"n-st), n.

Defn: One of the same religion with another.

CORE LOSS
Core loss. (Elec.)

Defn: Energy wasted by hysteresis or eddy currents in the core of an
armature, transformer, etc.

COREOPSIS
Co`re*op"sis (k`r-p"ss), n. Etym: [NL., fr. GR. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbaceous composite plants, having the achenes two-
horned and remotely resembling some insect; tickseed. C. tinctoria,
of the Western plains, the commonest plant of the genus, has been
used in dyeing.

COREPLASTY
Cor"e*plas`ty (kor"e*plas`ty), n. [Gr. ko`rh pupil + -plasty.] (Med.)

Defn: A plastic operation on the pupil, as for forming an artificial
pupil. -- Cor`e*plas"tic (-plas"tik), a.

CORER
Cor"er (krr"rr), n.

Defn: That which cores; an instrument for coring fruit; as, an apple
corer.

CO-RESPONDENT
Co`-re*spond"ent (k`rr-spnd"ent), n. (Law)

Defn: One who is called upon to answer a summons or other proceeding
jointly with another.

CORF
Corf (krrf), n.; pl. Corves (k. Etym: [Cf.LG. & D. korf basket, G.
korb, fr. L. corbis.]

1. A basket.

2. (Mining)
(a) A large basket used in carrying or hoisting coal or ore.
(b) A wooden frame, sled, or low-wheeled wagon, to convey coal or ore
in the mines.

CORFIOTE; CORFUTE
Cor"fi*ote (kr"f-t), Cor"fute (kr"ft), n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Corfu, an island in the Mediterranean
Sea.

CORIACEOUS
Co`ri*a"ceous (k`r-"shs), a. Etym: [L. coriaceous, fr. corium
leather. See Cuirass.]

1. Consisting of or resembling, leather; leatherlike; tough.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Stiff, like leather or parchment.

CORIANDER
Co`ri*an"der (k`r-n"dr), n Etym: [L. coriandrum, fr. Gr. coriandre.]
(Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant, the Coriandrum sativum, the fruit or
seeds of which have a strong smell and a spicy taste, and in medicine
are considered as stomachic and carminative.

CORIDINE
Co"ri*dine (k"r-dn; 104), n. Etym: [From L. cortium leather.]

Defn: A colorless or yellowish oil, C10H15N, of a leathery odor,
occuring in coal tar, Dippel's oil, tobacco smoke, etc., regarded as
an organic base, homologous with pyridine. Also, one of a series of
metameric compounds of which coridine is a type. [Written also
corindine.]

CORINDON
Co*rin"don (k-rn"dn), n. (Min.)

Defn: See Corrundum.

CORINNE
Co`rinne" (k`rn"), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common gazelle (Gazella dorcas). See Gazelle. [Written also
korin.]

CORINTH
Cor"inth (kr"nth), n. Etym: [L. Corinthus, Gr. Currant.]

1. A city of Greece, famed for its luxury and extravagance.

2. A small fruit; a currant. [Obs.] Broome.

CORINTHIAC
Co*rin"thi*ac (k-rn"th-k), a. Etym: [L. Corinthiacus.]

Defn: Pertaining to Corinth.

CORINTHIAN
Co*rin"thi*an (-an), a.

1. Of or relating to Corinth.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Corinthian order of architecture,
invented by the Greeks, but more commonly used by the Romans.
This is the lightest and most ornamental of the three orders used by
the Greeks. Parker.

3. Debauched in character or practice; impure. Milton.

4. Of or pertaining to an amateur sailor or yachtsman; as, a
corinthian race (one in which the contesting yachts must be manned by
amateurs.)

CORINTHIAN
Co*rin"thi*an, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Corinth.

2. A gay, licentious person. [Obs.]

CORIUM
Co"ri*um (k"r-m), n. Etym: [L. corium leather.]

1. Armor made of leather, particularly that used by the Romans; used
also by Enlish soldiers till the reign of Edward I. Fosbroke.

2. (Anat.)
(a) Same as Dermis.
(b) The deep layer of mucous membranes beneath the epithelium.

CORIVAL
Co*ri"val (k-r"val), n.

Defn: A rival; a corrival.

CORIVAL
Co*ri"val, v. t.

Defn: To rival; to pretend to equal. Shak.

CORIVALRY; CORIVALSHIP
Co*ri"val*ry, Co*ri"val*ship, n.

Defn: Joint rivalry.

CORK
Cork (krk), n. Etym: [Cf. G., Dan., & Sw. kork, D. kurk; all fr. Sp.
corcho, fr. L. cortex, corticis, bark, rind. Cf. Cortex.]

1. The outer layer of the bark of the cork tree (Quercus Suber), of
which stoppers for bottles and casks are made. See Cutose.

2. A stopper for a bottle or cask, cut out of cork.

3. A mass of tabular cells formed in any kind of bark, in greater or
less abundance.

Note: Cork is sometimes used wrongly for calk, calker; calkin, a
sharp piece of iron on the shoe of a horse or ox. Cork jackets, a
jacket having thin pieces of cork inclosed within canvas, and used to
aid in swimming.
 -- Cork tree (Bot.), the species of oak (Quercus Suber of Southern
Europe) whose bark furnishes the cork of commerce.

CORK
Cork, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corked (krkt); p. pr. & vb. n. Corking.]

1. To stop with a cork, as a bottle.

2. To furnish or fit with cork; to raise on cork.
Tread on corked stilts a prisoner's pace. Bp. Hall.

Note: To cork is sometimes used erroneously for to calk, to furnish
the shoe of a horse or ox with sharp points, and also in the meaning
of cutting with a calk.

CORKAGE
Cork"age (-j), n.

Defn: The charge made by innkeepers for drawing the cork and taking
care of bottles of wine bought elsewhere by a guest.

CORKED
Corked (krkt), a.

Defn: having acquired an unpleasant taste from the cork; as, a bottle
of wine is corked.

CORK FOSSIL
Cork" fos`sil (krk" fs`sl). (Min.)

Defn: A variety of amianthus which is very light, like cork.

CORKINESS
Cork"i*ness (--ns), n.

Defn: The quality of being corky.

CORKING PIN
Cork"ing pin` (krk"ng pn`).

Defn: A pin of a large size, formerly used attaching a woman's
headdress to a cork mold. [Obs.] Swift.

CORKSCREW
Cork"screw` (-skr"), n.

Defn: An instrument with a screw or a steel spiral for drawing corks
from bottles. Corkscrew starts, a spiral staircase around a solid
newel.

CORKSCREW
Cork"screw`, v. t.

Defn: To press forward in a winding way; as, to corksrew one's way
through a crowd. [Colloq.] Dickens.

CORKWING
Cork"wing` (-wng`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish; the goldsinny.

CORKWOOD
Cork"wood` (kôrk"wood`), n.

1. The wood of the cork oak. [Obs.]

2.  Any one of several trees or shrubs having light or corky wood;
esp.:
 (a) In the United States, the tree Leitneria floridana.
 (b) In the West Indies: (1) Either of the cotton trees Ochroma
lagopus and Pariti tiliaceum.  (2)

Defn: The tree producing the aligator apple. (3)

Defn: The blolly.

CORKY
Cork"y (-), a.

1. Consisting of, or like, cork; dry shriveled up.
Bind fast hiss corky arms. Shak.

2. Tasting of cork.

CORM
Corm (krm), n. Etym: [See Cormus.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A solid bulb-shaped root, as of the crocus. See Bulb.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Cormus, 2.

CORMOGENY
Cor*mog"e*ny (kr-mj"-n), n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The embryological history of groups or families of individuals.

CORMOPHYLOGENY
Cor`mo*phy*log"e*ny (kr`m-f-lj"-n), n. Etym: [Gr. phylogeny.] (Biol.)

Defn: The phylogeny of groups or families of individuals. Haeckel.

CORMOPHYTES; CORMOPHYTA
Cor"mo*phytes (kr"m-fts), Cor*moph"y*ta (kr-mf"-t), n. pl. Etym: [NL.
cormophyta, fr. Gr. trunk of a tree + (Bot.)

Defn: A term proposed by Endlicher to include all plants with an axis
containing vascular tissue and with foliage.

CORMORANT
Cor`mo*rant (kr"m-rant), n. Etym: [F. cormoran, fr. Armor. m a sea
raven; m sea + bran raven, with cor, equiv. to L. corvus raven,
pleonastically prefixed; or perh. fr. L. corvus marinus sea raven.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of Phalacrocorax, a genus of sea birds having a sac
under the beak; the shag. Cormorants devour fish voraciously, and
have become the emblem of gluttony. They are generally black, and
hence are called sea ravens, and coalgeese. [Written also corvorant.]

2. A voracious eater; a glutton, or gluttonous servant. B. Jonson.

CORMORAUT
Cor"mo*raut, a.

Defn: Ravenous; voracious.
Cormorant, devouring time. Shak.

CORMUS
Cor"mus (kr"ms), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: See Corm.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A vegetable or animal made up of a number of individuals, such
as, for example, would be formed by a process of budding from a
parent stalk wherre the buds remain attached.

CORN
Corn (krn), n. Etym: [L. cornu horn: cf. F. corne horn, hornlike
excrescence. See Horn.]

Defn: A thickening of the epidermis at some point, esp. on the toees,
by friction or pressure. It is usually painful and troublesome.
Welkome, gentlemen! Ladies that have their toes Unplagued with corns,
will have a bout with you. Shak.

Note: The substance of a corn usually resembles horn, but where
moisture is present, as between the toes, it is white and sodden, and
is called a soft corn.

CORN
Corn, n. Etym: [AS. corn; akin to OS. korn, D. koren, G., Dan., Sw.,
& Icel. korn, Goth. ka, L. granum, Russ. zerno. Cf. Grain, Kernel.]

1. A single seed of certain plants, as wheat, rye, barley, and maize;
a grain.

2. The various farinaceous grains of the cereal grasses used for
food, as wheat, rye, barley, maize, oats.

Note: In Scotland, corn is generally restricted to oats, in the
United States, to maize, or Indian corn, of which there are several
kinds; as, yellow corn, which grows chiefly in the Northern States,
and is yellow when ripe; white or southern corn, which grows to a
great height, and has long white kernels; sweet corn, comprising a
number of sweet and tender varieties, grown chiefly at the North,
some of which have kernels that wrinkle when ripe and dry; pop corn,
any small variety, used for popping.

3. The plants which produce corn, when growing in the field; the
stalks and ears, or the stalks, ears, and seeds, after reaping and
before thrashing.
In one night, ere glimpse of morn, His shadowy flail had thrashed the
corn. Milton.

4. A small, hard particle; a grain. "Corn of sand." Bp. Hall. "A corn
of powder." Beau & Fl. Corn ball, a ball of popped corn stuck
together with soft candy from molasses or sugar.
 -- Corn bread, bread made of Indian meal.
 -- Corn cake, a kind of corn bread; johnny cake; hoecake.
 -- Corn cockle (Bot.), a weed (Agrostemma or Lychnis Githago),
having bright flowers, common in grain fields.
 -- Corn flag (Bot.), a plant of the genus Gladiolus; -- called also
sword lily.
 -- Corn fly. (Zoöl.) (a) A small fly which, in the larval state, is
injurious to grain, living in the stalk, and causing the disease
called "gout," on account of the swelled joints. The common European
species is Chlorops tæniopus. (b) A small fly (Anthomyia ze) whose
larva or maggot destroys seed corn after it has been planted.
 -- Corn fritter, a fritter having green Indian corn mixed through
its batter. [U. S.] -- Corn laws, laws regulating trade in corn,
especially those in force in Great Britain till 1846, prohibiting the
importation of foreign grain for home consumption, except when the
price rose above a certain rate.
 -- Corn marigold. (Bot.) See under Marigold.
 -- Corn oyster, a fritter containing grated green Indian corn and
butter, the combined taste resembling that of oysters. [U.S.] -- Corn
parsley (Bot.), a plant of the parsley genus (Petroselinum ssegetum),
a weed in parts of Europe and Asia.
 -- Corn popper, a utensil used in popping corn.
 -- Corn poppy (Bot.), the red poppy (Papaver Rhoeas), common in
European cornfields; -- also called corn rose.
 -- Corn rent, rent paid in corn.
 -- Corn rose. See Corn poppy.
 -- Corn salad (Bot.), a name given to several species of
Valerianella, annual herbs sometimes used for salad. V. olitoria is
also called lamb's lettuce.
 -- Corn stone, red limestone. [Prov. Eng.] -- Corn violet (Bot.), a
species of Campanula.
 -- Corn weevil. (Zoöl.) (a) A small weevil which causes great injury
to grain. (b) In America, a weevil (Sphenophorus zeæ) which attacks
the stalk of maize near the root, often doing great damage. See Grain
weevil, under Weevil.

CORN
Corn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corned (krnd); p. pr. & vb. n. Corning.]

1. To preserve and season with salt in grains; to sprinkle with salt;
to cure by salting; now, specifically, to salt slightly in brine or
otherwise; as, to corn beef; to corn a tongue.

2. To form into small grains; to granulate; as, to corn gunpowder.

3. To feed with corn or (in Sctland) oats; as, to corn horses.
Jamieson.

4. To render intoxicated; as, ale strong enough to corn one.
[Colloq.] Corning house, a house or place where powder is corned or
granulated.

CORNAGE
Cor"nage (kr"nj), n. Etym: [OF.,, horn-blowing, tax on horned cattle,
fr. F. corne a horn, L. cornu.] (Law)

Defn: Anancient tenure of land, which obliged the tenant to give
notice of an invasion by blowing a horn.

CORNAMUTE
Cor"na*mute (kr"n-mt), n.

Defn: A cornemuse. [Obs.]

CORNBIND
Corn"bind` (krn"bnd`), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A weed that binds stalks of corn, as Convolvulus arvensis,
Polygonum Convolvulus. [Prov. Eng.]

CORNCOB
Corn"cob` (krn"kb`), n.

Defn: The cob or axis on which the kernels of Indian corn grow.
[U.S.]

CORNCRAKE
Corn"crake` (-krk`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird (Crex crex or C. pratensis) which frequents grain
fields; the European crake or land rail; -- called also corn bird.

CORNCRIB
Corn"crib` (krn"krb`), n.

Defn: A crib for storing corn.

CORNCUTTER
Corn"cut`ter (-kt`tr), n.

1. A machine for cutting up stalks of corn for food of cattle.

2. An implement consisting of a long blade, attached to a handle at
nearly a right angle, used for cutting down the stalks of Indian
corn.

CORNDODGER
Corn"dodg`er (-dj`r), n.

Defn: A cake made of the meal of Indian corn, wrapped in a covering
of husks or paper, and baked under the embers. [U.S.] Bartlett.

CORNEA
Cor"ne*a (kr"n-), n.; pl. Corneas (-. Etym: [Fem. sing., fr. L.
corneus horny, fr. cornu a horn. See Horn.] (Anat.)

Defn: The transparent part of the coat of the eyeball which covers
the iris and pupil and admits light to the interior. See Eye.

CORNEAL
Cor"ne*al (-al), a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the cornea.

CORNEL
Cor"nel (-nl), n. Etym: [OF. cornille, cornoille, F. cornouille,
cornel berry, LL. cornolium cornel tree, fr. L. cornus, fr. cornu
horn, in allusion to the hardness of the wood. See Horn.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The cornelian cherry (Cornus Mas), a European shrub with
clusters of small, greenish flowers, followed by very acid but edible
drupes resembling cherries.

2. Any species of the genus Cornus, as C. florida, the flowering
cornel; C. stolonifera, the osier cornel; C. Canadensis, the dwarf
cornel, or bunchberry.

CORNELIAN
Cor*nel"ian (kr-nlyan), n. Etym: [F. cornaline, OF. corneline, fr. L.
cornu horn. So called from its horny appearance when broken. See
Horn, and cf. Carnelian.] (Min.)

Defn: Same as Carnelian.

CORNEMUSE
Corne"muse (krn"mz), n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A wind instrument nearly identical with the bagpipe. Drayton.

CORNEOCALCAREOUS
Cor"ne*o*cal*ca"re*ous (krn--kl-k"r-s), a.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Formed of a mixture of horny and calcareous materials, as some
shells and corals.

2. Horny on one side and calcareous on the other.

CORNEOUS
Cor"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. corneus, fr. cornu horn.]

Defn: Of a texture resembling horn; horny; hard. Sir T. Browne.

CORNER
Cor"ner (kr"nr), n. Etym: [OF. corniere, cornier, LL. cornerium,
corneria, fr. L. cornu horn, end, point. See Horn.]

1. The point where two converging lines meet; an angle, either
external or internal.

2. The space in the angle between converging lines or walls which
meet in a point; as, the chimney corner.

3. An edge or extremity; the part farthest from the center; hence,
any quarter or part.
From the four corners of the earth they come. Shak.

4. A secret or secluded place; a remote or out of the way place; a
nook.
This thing was not done in a corner. Acts xxvi. 26.

5. Direction; quarter.
Sits the wind in that corner! Shak.

6. The state of things produced by a combination of persons, who buy
up the whole or the available part of any stock or species of
property, which compels those who need such stock or property to buy
of them at their own price; as, a corner in a railway stock.
[Broker's Cant] Corner stone, the stone which lies at the corner of
two walls, and unites them; the principal stone; especially, the
stone which forms the corner of the foundation of an edifice; hence,
that which is fundamental importance or indispensable. "A prince who
regarded uniformity of faith as the corner stone of his government."
Prescott.
 -- Corner tooth, one of the four teeth which come in a horse's mouth
at the age of four years and a half, one on each side of the upper
and of the lower jaw, between the middle teeth and the tushes.

CORNER
Cor"ner, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cornered (-nrd);p. pr. & vb. n.
Cornering.]

1. To drive into a corner.

2. To drive into a position of great difficaulty or hopeless
embarrassment; as, to corner a person in argument.

3. To get command of (a stock, commodity, etc.), so as to be able to
put one's own price on it; as, to corner the shares of a railroad
stock; to corner petroleum.

CORNERCAP
Cor"ner*cap` (-kp`), n.

Defn: The chief ornament. [Obs.]
Thou makest the triumviry the cornercap of society. Shak.

CORNERED
Cor"nered (-nrd), p. a.

Defn: 1 Having corners or angles.

2. In a possition of great difficulty; brought to bay.

CORNERWISE
Cor"ner*wise` (-wz`), adv.

Defn: With the corner in front; diagonally; not square.

CORNET
Cor"net (kr"nt), n. Etym: [F. cornet, m. (for senses 1 & 2),
cornette, f. & m. (for senses 3 & 4), dim. of corne horn, L. cornu.
See Horn.]

1. (Mus.)
(a) An obsolete rude reed instrument (Ger. Zinken), of the oboe
family. (b) A brass instrument, with cupped mouthpiece, and furnished
with valves or pistons, now used in bands, and, in place of the
trumpet, in orchestras. See Cornet-à-piston. (c) A certain organ stop
or register.

2. A cap of paper twisted at the end, used by retailers to inclose
small wares. Cotgrave.

3. (Mil.)
(a) A troop of cavalry; -- so called from its being accompanied by a
cornet player. [Obs.] "A body of five cornets of horse." Clarendon.
(b) The standard of such a troop. [Obs.]
(c) The lowest grade of commissioned officer in a British cavalry
troop, who carried the standard. The office was abolished in 1871.

4. A headdress:
(a) A square cap anciently worn as a mark of certain professions.
(b) A part of a woman's headdress, in the 16th century.

5. Etym: [Cf. Coronet.] (Far.)

Defn: See Coronet, 2.

CORNET-A-PISTON
Cor"net-à-pis`ton (kr"nt--ps"tn; F. kr`n`ps`tn"), n.; pl. Cornets-à-
piston. Etym: [F.] (Mus.)

Defn: A brass wind instrument, like the trumpet, furnished with
valves moved by small pistons or sliding rods; a cornopean; a cornet.

CORNETCY
Cor"net*cy (kr"nt-s), n.

Defn: The commission or rank of a cornet.

CORNETER
Cor"net*er (kr"nt-r), n.

Defn: One who blows a cornet.

CORNEULE
Cor"neule (kr"nl), n. Etym: [F., dim. of corn the cornea.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the corneas of a compound eye in the invertebrates.
Carpenter.

CORNFIELD
Corn"field` (krn"fld`), n.

Defn: A field where corn is or has been growing; -- in England, a
field of wheat, rye, barley, or oats; in America, a field of Indian
corn.

CORNFLOOR
Corn"floor` (-flr`), n.

Defn: A thrashing floor. Hos. ix. 1.

CORNFLOWER
Corn"flow`er (-flou`r), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A conspicuous wild flower (Centaurea Cyanus), growing in
grainfields.

CORNIC
Cor"nic (kr"nk), a.

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, the dogwood (Cornus
florida).

CORNICE
Cor"nice (kr"ns), n. Etym: [F. corniche, It. cornice, LL. coronix,
cornix, fr. L. coronis a curved line, a flourish with the pen at the
end of a book or chapter, Gr. corona crown. sEE Crown, and cf.
Coronis.] (Arch.)

Defn: Any horizontal, molded or otherwise decorated projection which
crowns or finishes the part to which it is affixed; as, the cornice
of an order, pedestal, door, window, or house. Gwilt. Cornice ring,
the ring on a cannon next behind the muzzle ring.

CORNICED
Cor"niced (kr"nst), a.

Defn: Having a cornice.

CORNICLE
Cor"ni*cle (kr"n-k'l), n. Etym: [L. corniculum, dim. of cornu horn.]

Defn: A little horn. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CORNICULAR
Cor*nic"u*lar (-lr), n. Etym: [L. cornicularius.]

Defn: A secretary or clerk. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CORNICULATE
Cor/nic"u*late (kr-nk"-lt), a. Etym: [L. corniculatus.]

1. Horned; having horns. Dr. H. More.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having processes resembling small horns.

CORNICULUM
Cor*nic"u*lum (kr-nk"-lm), n.; pl. Cornicula (-l. Etym: [L.
corniculum little horn.] (Anat.)

Defn: A small hornlike part or process.

CORNIFEROUS
Cor*nif"er*ous (kr-nf"r-s), a. Etym: [L. cornu horn + -ferous.]
(Geol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the lowest period of the Devonian age.(See
the Diagram, under Geology.) The Corniferous period has been so
called from the numerous seams of hornstone which characterize the
later part of the period, as developed in the State of New York.

CORNIFIC
Cor*nif"ic (kr-nf"k), a. Etym: [L. cornu horn + facere to make.]

Defn: Producing horns; forming horn.

CORNIFICATION
Cor`ni*fi*ca"tion (kr`n-f-k"shn), n.

Defn: Conversion into, or formation of, horn; a becoming like horn.

CORNIFIED
Cor"ni*fied (kr"n-fd), a. Etym: [L. cornu horn + -fy.] (Anat.)

Defn: Converted into horn; horny.

CORNIFORM
Cor"ni*form (-frm), a. Etym: [L. cornu horn + -form.]

Defn: Having the shape of a horn; horn-shaped.

CORNIGEROUS
Cor*nig"er*ous (kr-nj"r-s), a. Etym: [L. corniger; cornu horn +
gerere to bear.]

Defn: Horned; having horns; as, cornigerous animals. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

CORNIN
Cor"nin (kr"nn), n. (Chem.)
(a) A bitter principle obtained from dogwood (Cornus florida), as a
white crystalline substance; -- called also cornic acid.
(b) An extract from dogwood used as a febrifuge.

CORNIPLUME
Cor"ni*plume (kr"n-plm), n. Etym: [L. cornu horn + pluma feather.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A hornlike tuft of feathers on the head of some birds.

CORNISH
Cor"nish (kr"nsh), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cornwall, in England. Cornish chough. See
Chough.
 -- Cornish engine, a single-acting pumping engine, used in mines, in
Cornwall and elsewhere, and for water works. A heavy pump rod or
plunger, raised by the steam, forces up the water by its weight, in
descending.

CORNISH
Cor"nish, n.

Defn: The dialect, or the people, of Cornwall.

CORNIST
Cor"nist, n.

Defn: A performer on the cornet or horn.

CORNLOFT
Corn"loft` (krn"lft`), n.

Defn: A loft for corn; a granary.

CORNMUSE
Corn"muse (-mz), n.

Defn: A cornemuse.

CORNO DI BASSETTO
Cor"no di bas*set"to (kr"n d bs-st"t or bs-st"t); pl. Corni (-n di
basseto. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A tenor clarinet; -- called also basset horn, and sometimes
confounded with the English horn, which is a tenor oboe.

CORNO INGLESE
Cor"no In*gle"se (n-gl"z); pl. Corni Inglesi (-z. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A reed instrument, related to the oboe, but deeper in pitch;
the English horn.

CORNOPEAN
Cor*no"pe*an (kr-n"p-an), n. (Mus.)

Defn: An obsolete name for the cornet-à-piston.

CORNSHELLER
Corn"shell`er (krn"shl`r), n.

Defn: A machine that separates the kernels of corn from the cob.

CORNSHUCK
Corn"shuck` (-shk`), n.

Defn: The husk covering an ear of Indian corn. [Colloq. U.S.]

CORNSTALK
Corn"stalk` (-stk`), n.

Defn: A stalk of Indian corn.

CORNSTARCH
Corn"starch` (-strch`), n.

Defn: Starch made from Indian corn, esp. a fine white flour used for
puddings, etc.

CORNU
Cor"nu (kr"n), n; pl. Cornua (-n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A horn, or anything shaped like or resembling a horn.

CORNU AMMONIS
Cor"nu Am*mo"nis (m-m"ns); pl. Cornua Ammonis. Etym: [L., horn of
Ammon. See Ammonite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil shell, curved like a ram's horn; an obsolete name for
an ammonite.

CORNUCOPIA
Cor`nu*co"pi*a (kr`n-k"p-), n.; pl. Cornucopias (-. Etym: [L. cornu
copiae horn of plenty. See Horn, and Copious.]

1. The horn of plenty, from which fruits and flowers are represented
as issuing. It is an emblem of abundance.

2. pl. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of grasses bearing spikes of flowers resembling the
cornucopia in form.

Note: Some writers maintain that this word should be written, in the
singular, cornu copiæ, and in the plural, cornua copiæ.

CORNUTE; CORNUTED
Cor"nute (kr"nt or kr-nt"), Cor*nut"ed (kr-n"td), a. Etym: [L.
cornutus horned, from cornu horn.]

1. Bearing horns; horned; horn-shaped.

2. Cuckolded. [R.] "My being cornuted." LEstrange.

CORNUTE
Cor*nute" (kr-nt"), v. t.

Defn: To bestow horns upon; to make a cuckold of; to cuckold. [Obs.]
Burton.

CORNUTO
Cor*nu"to (kr-n"t), n. Etym: [It., fr. L. cornutus horned.]

Defn: A man that wears the horns; a cuckold. [R.] Shak.

CORNUTOR
Cor*nu"tor (-tr), n.

Defn: A cuckold maker. [R.] Jordan.

CORNY
Cor"ny (kr"n), a. Etym: [L. cornu horn.]

Defn: Strong, stiff, or hard, like a horn; resembling horn.
Up stood the cornu reed. Milton.

CORNY
Corn"y, a.

1. Producing corn or grain; furnished with grains of corn. [R.] "The
corny ear." Prior.

2. Containing corn; tasting well of malt. [R.]
A draught of moist and corny ale. Chaucer.

3. Tipsy. [Vulgar, Eng.] Forby.

COROCORE
Cor"o*core (kr"-kr), n.

Defn: A kind of boat of various forms, used in the Indian
Archipelago.

CORODY
Cor"o*dy (kr"-d), n. Etym: [LL. corrodium, corredium, conredium,
furniture, provision: cf. OF. conroi. See Curry.] (Old Law)

Defn: An allowance of meat, drink, or clothing due from an abbey or
other religious house for the sustenance of such of the king's
servants as he may designate to receive it. [Written also corrody.]

COROL
Cor"ol (kr"l), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A corolla.

COROLLA
Co*rol"la (k-rl"l), n. Etym: [L. corolla a little crown or garland,
dim. of corona. See Crown.] (Bot.)

Defn: The inner envelope of a flower; the part which surrounds the
organs of fructification, consisting of one or more leaves, called
petals. It is usually distinguished from the calyx by the fineness of
its texture and the gayness of its colors. See the Note under
Blossom.

COROLLACEOUS
Cor`ol*la"ceous (kr`l-l"shs), a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a corolla; having the form or
texture of a corolla.

COROLLARY
Cor"ol*la*ry (kr"l-l-r; 277), n.; pl. Corollaries (-r. Etym: [L.
corollarium gift, corollary, fr. corolla. See Corolla.]

1. That which is given beyond what is actually due, as a garland of
flowers in addition to wages; surplus; something added or
superfluous. [Obs.]
Now come, my Ariel; bring a corollary, Rather than want a spirit.
Shak.

2. Something which follows from the demonstration of a proposition;
an additional inference or deduction from a demonstrated proposition;
a consequence.

COROLLATE; COROLLATED
Cor"ol*late (kr"l-lt), Cor"ol*la`ted (-l`td), a.

Defn: Having a corolla or corollas; like a corolla.

COROLLET
Cor"ol*let (kr"l-lt), n. Etym: [Dim. fr. corolla.] (Bot.)

Defn: A floret in an aggregate flower. [Obs.] Martyn.

COROLLIFLORAL; COROLLIFLOROUS
Co*rol`li*flo"ral (k-rl`l-fl"ral), Co*rol`li*flo"rous (-fl"rs), a.
Etym: [Corolla + L. flos, floris, flower.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the stamens borne on the petals, and the latter free
from the calyx. Compare Calycifloral and Thalamifloral.

COROLLINE
Cor"ol*line (-ln), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a corolla.

COROMANDEL
Cor`o*man"del (kr`-mn"del), n. (Geol.)

Defn: The west coast, or a portion of the west coast, of the Bay of
Bengal. Coromandel gooseberry. See Carambola.
 -- Coromandel wood, Calamander wood.

CORONA
Co*ro"na (k-r"n), n.; pl. L. Coronæ (-nCoronas (-n. Etym: [L. corona
crown. See Crown.]

1. A crown or garland bestowed among the Romans as a reward for
distinguished services.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: The projecting part of a Classic cornice, the under side of
which is cut with a recess or channel so as to form a drip. See
Illust. of Column.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The upper surface of some part, as of a tooth or the skull; a
crown.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The shelly skeleton of a sea urchin.

5. (Astrol.)

Defn: A peculiar luminous apearance, or aureola, which surrounds the
sun, and which is seen only when the sun is totally eclipsed by the
moon.

6. (Bot.)
(a) An inner appendage to a petal or a corolla, often forming a
special cup, as in the daffodil and jonquil.
(b) Any crownlike appendage at the top of an organ.

7. (Meteorol.)
(a) A circle, usually colored, seen in peculiar states of the
atmosphere around and close to a luminous body, as the sun or moon.
(b) A peculiar phase of the aurora borealis, formed by the
concentration or convergence of luminous beams around the point in
the heavens indicated by the direction of the dipping needle.

8. A crown or circlet suspended from the roof or vaulting of
churches, to hold tapers lighted on solemn occasions. It is sometimes
formed of double or triple circlets, arranged pyramidically. Called
also corona lucis. Fairholt.

9. (Mus.)

Defn: A character [] called the pause or hold.

CORONACH
Cor"o*nach (kr"-nk), n.

Defn: See Coranach.

CORONAL
Cor"o*nal (kr"-nal or, esp. in science, k-r"nal; 277), a. Etym: [L.
coronalis: cf. F. coronal.]

1. Of or pertaining to a corona (in any of the senses).
The coronal light during the eclipse is faint. Abney.

2. Of or pertaining to a king's crown, or coronation.
The law and his coronal oath require his undeniable assent to what
laws the Parliament agree upon. Milton.

3. Of or pertaining to the top of the head or skull.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the shell of a sea urchin. Coronal suture
(Anat.), a suture extending across the skull between the parietal and
frontal bones; the frontoparietal suture.

CORONAL
Cor"o*nal, n.

1. A crown; wreath; garland. Spenser.

2. The frontal bone, over which the ancients wore their coronæ or
garlands. Hooper.

CORONAMEN
Cor`o*na"men (kr`-n"mn), n. Etym: [L., a crowning.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The upper margin of a hoof; a coronet.

CORONARY
Cor"o*na*ry (kr"-n-r), a. Etym: [L. coronarius: cf. F. coronaire.]

1. Of or pertaining to a crown; ferming, or adapted to form, a crown
or garland. "Coronary thorns." Bp. Pearson.
The catalogue of coronary plants is not large in Theophrastus. Sir T.
Browne.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Resembling, or situated like, a crown or circlet; as, the
coronary arteries and veins of the heart.

CORONARY
Cor"o*na*ry, n.

Defn: A small bone in the foot of a horse.

CORONARY BONE
Cor"o*na*ry bone.

Defn: The small pastern bone of the horse and allied animals.

CORONARY CUSHION
Coronary cushion.

Defn: A cushionlike band of vascular tissue at the upper border of
the wall of the hoof of the horse and allied animals. It takes an
important part in the secretion of the horny walls.

CORONATE; CORONATED
Cor"o*nate (kr"-nt), Cor"o*na`ted (-n`ted), a. Etym: [L. coronatus,
p. p. of coronare to crown, fr. corona. See Crown.]

1. Having or wearing a crown.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) Having the coronal feathers lengthened or otherwise
distinguished; -- said of birds.
(b) Girt about the spire with a row of tubercles or spines; -- said
of spiral shells.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: Having a crest or a crownlike appendage.

CORONATION
Cor`o*na"tion (kr`-n"shn), n. Etym: [See Coronate.]

1. The act or solemnity of crowning a sovereign; the act of investing
a prince with the insignia of royalty, on his succeeding to the
sovereignty.

2. The pomp or assembly at a coronation. Pope.

CORONEL
Coro"nel (kr"nel), n. Etym: [See Colonel.]

Defn: A colonel. [Obs.] Spenser.

CORONEL
Cor"o*nel (kr"-nl or kr"nl), n. Etym: [Cf. Cronel, Crown.] (Anc.
Armor)

Defn: The iron head of a tilting spear, divided into two, three, or
four blunt points. [Written also cronel.] Grose.

CORONER
Cor"o*ner (kr"-nr), n. Etym: [From OE. coronen to crown, OF. coroner,
fr. L. coronare, fr. corona crown. Formed as a translation of LL.
coronator coroner, fr. L. corona crown, the coroner having been
originally a prosecuting officer of the crown. See Crown.]

Defn: An officer of the peace whose principal duty is to inquire,
with the help of a jury, into the cause of any violent, sudden or
mysterious death, or death in prison, usually on sight of the body
and at the place where the death occurred. [In England formerly also
written and pronounced crowner.]

Note: In some of the United States the office of coroner is
abolished, that of medical examiner taking its place. Coroner's
inquest. See under Inquest.

CORONET
Cor"o*net (kr"-nt), n. Etym: [Dim. of OE. corone crown; cf. OF.
coronete. See Crown, and cf. Crownet, Cronet.]

1. An ornamental or honorary headdress, having the shape and
character of a crown; particularly, a crown worn as the mark of high
rank lower than sovereignty. The word is used by Shakespeare to
denote also a kingly crown.
Without a star, a coronet, or garter. Goldsmith.

Note: The coronet of the Prince of Wales consist of a circlet of gold
with four crosses pattée around the edge between as many fleurs-de-
lis. The center crosses are connected by an arch which is surmounted
by a globe or cross. The coronet of a British duke is adorned with
strawberry leaves; that of a marquis has leaves with pearls
interposed; that of an earl raises the pearls above the leaves; that
of a viscount is surrounded with pearls only; that of a baron has
only four pearls.

2. (Far.)

Defn: The upper part of a horse's hoof, where the horn terminates in
skin. James White.

3. (Anc. Armor)

Defn: The iron head of a tilting spear; a coronel. Crose.

CORONETED
Cor"o*net*ed (-nt-d), a.

Defn: Wearing, or entitled to wear, a coronet; of noble birth or
rank.

CORONIFORM
Co*ron"i*form (k-rn"-frm or k-r"n-), a. Etym: [L. corona crown + -
form.]

Defn: Having the form of a crown or coronet; resembling a crown.

CORONILLA
Cor`o*nil"la (kr`-nl"l), n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. corona crown: cf. F.
coronille.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants related to the clover, having their flowers
arranged in little heads or tufts resembling coronets.

CORONIS
Co*ro"nis (k-r"ns), n. Etym: [Gr. Cornice.]

1. In Greek grammar, a sign ['] sometimes placed over a contracted
syllable. W. W. Goodwin.

2. The curved line or flourish at the end of a book or chapter;
hence, the end. [R.] Bp. Hacket.

CORONIUM
Co*ro"ni*um, n. [NL. See Corona.] (Chem. & Astron.)

Defn: The principal gaseous substance forming the solar corona,
characterized by a green line in the coronal spectrum.

CORONOID
Cor"o*noid (kr"-noid), a. Etym: [Gr. -oid: cf. F. corono.] (Anat.)

Defn: Resembling the beak of a crow; as, the coronoid process of the
jaw, or of the ulna.

CORONULE
Cor"o*nule (kr"-nl), n. Etym: [L. coronula, dim. of corona crown.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A coronet or little crown of a seed; the downy tuft on seeds.
See Pappus. Martyn.

COROUN
Co*roun" (k-roun"), v. & n.

Defn: Crown. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COROZO; COROSSO
Co*ro"zo Co*ros"so (k-r"th or -s), n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. cerozo a kind of
palm tree.]

Defn: The name in Central America for the seed of a true palm; also,
a commercial name for the true ivory nut. See Ivory nut.

CORPORACE
Cor"po*race (kr"p-rs), n.

Defn: See Corporas.

CORPORAL
Cor"po*ral (kr"p-ral), n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. F. caporal, It.
caporale, fr. capo head, chief, L. caput. See Chief, and cf.
Caporal.] (Mil.)

Defn: A noncommissioned officer, next below a sergeant. In the United
States army he is the lowest noncomissioned officer in a company of
infantry. He places and relieves sentinels. Corporal's guard, a
detachment such as would be in charge of a corporal for guard duty,
etc.; hence, derisively, a very small number of persons.
 -- Lance corporal, an assistant corporal on private's pay. Farrow.
 -- Ship's corporal (Naut.), a petty officer who assists the master
at arms in his various duties.

CORPORAL
Cor"po*ral, a. Etym: [L. corporalis, fr. corpus body. See Corpse.]

1. Belonging or relating to the body; bodily. "Past corporal toil."
Shak.
Pillories and other corporal infections. Milton.
Corporal punishment (law), punishment applied to the body of the
offender, including the death penalty, whipping, and imprisonment.

2. Having a body or substance; not spiritual; material. In this sense
now usually written corporeal. Milton.
A corporal heaven . . . .where the stare are. Latimer.
What seemed corporal melted As breath into the wind. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Corporal, Bodily, Corporeal. Bodily is opposed to mental; as,
bodily affections. Corporeal refers to the whole physical structure
or nature, of the body; as, corporeal substance or frame. Corporal,
as now used, refers more to punishment or some infliction; as,
corporal punishment. To speak of corporeal punishment is an error.
Bodily austerities; the corporeal mold.

CORPORAL; CORPORALE
Cor"po*ral (kr"p-ral), Cor`po*ra"le (-r"l), n. Etym: [LL. corporale:
cf.F. corporal. See Corporal,a.]

Defn: A fine linen cloth, on which the sacred elements are
consecrated in the eucharist, or with which they are covered; a
communion cloth. Corporal oath, a solemn oath; -- so called from the
fact that it was the ancient usage for the party taking it to touch
the corporal, or cloth that covered the consecrated elements.

CORPORALITY
Cor`po*ral"i*ty (kr`p-rl"l-t), n.: pl. Corporalities (-t. Etym: [L.
corporalitas: cf. F.corporalit.]

1. The state of being or having a body; bodily existence;
corporeality; -- opposed to spirituality. Dr. H. More.

2. A confraternity; a guild. [Obs.] Milton.

CORPORALLY
Cor"po*ral*ly (kr"p-ral-ly), adv.

Defn: In or with the body; bodily; as, to be corporally present.
Sharp.

CORPORALSHIP
Cor"po*ral*ship, n. (Mil.)

Defn: A corporal's office.

CORPORAS
Cor"po*ras (kr"p-rs), n. Etym: [Prop. pl. of corporal.]

Defn: The corporal, or communion cloth. [Obs.] Fuller.

CORPORATE
Cor"po*rate (kr"p-rt), a. Etym: [L. corporatus, p. p. of corporare to
shape into a body, fr. corpus body. See Corpse.]

1. Formed into a body by legal enactment; united in an association,
and endowed by law with the rights and liabilities of an individual;
incorporated; as, a corporate town.

2. Belonging to a corporation or incorporated body. "Corporate
property." Hallam.

3. United; general; collectively one.
They answer in a joint and corporate voice. Shak.
Corporate member, an actual or voting member of a corporation, as
distinguished from an associate or an honorary member; as, a
corporate member of the American Board.

CORPORATE
Cor"po*rate (-rt), v. t.

Defn: To incorporate. [Obs.] Stow.

CORPORATE
Cor"po*rate, v. i.

Defn: To become incorporated. [Obs.]

CORPORATELY
Cor"po*rate*ly (-rt-l), adv.

1. In a corporate capacity; acting as a coprporate body.

2. In, or as regarda, the body. Fabyan.

CORPORATION
Cor`po*ra"tion (kr`p-r"shn), n. Etym: [L. corporatio incarnation: cf.
F. corporation corporation.]

Defn: A body politic or corporate, formed and authorized by law to
act as a single person, and endowed by law with the capacity of
succession; a society having the capacity of transacting business as
an individual.

Note: Corporations are aggregate or sole. Corporations aggregate
consist of two or more persons united in a society, which is
preserved by a succession of members, either forever or till the
corporation is dissolved by the power that formed it, by the death of
all its members, by surrender of its charter or franchises, or by
forfeiture. Such corporations are the mayor and aldermen of cities,
the head and fellows of a college, the dean and chapter of a
cathedral church, the stockholders of a bank or insurance company,
etc. A corporation sole consists of a single person, who is made a
body corporate and politic, in order to give him some legal
capacities, and especially that of succession, which as a natural
person he can not have. Kings, bishops, deans, parsons, and vicars,
are in England sole corporations. A fee will not pass to a
corporation sole without the word "successors" in the grant. There
are instances in the United States of a minister of a parish seized
of parsonage lands in the right of his parish, being a corporation
sole, as in Massachusetts. Corporations are sometimes classified as
public and private; public being convertible with municipal, and
private corporations being all corporations not municipal. Close
corporation. See under Close.

CORPORATOR
Cor"po*ra`tor (kr"p-r`tr), n.

Defn: A member of a corporation, esp. one of the original members.

CORPORATURE
Cor"po*ra*ture (kr"p-r-tr), n.

Defn: The state of being embodied; bodily existence. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

CORPOREAL
Cor*po"re*al (kr-p"r-al), a. Etym: [L. corporeus, fr. corpus body.]

Defn: Having a body; consisting of, or pertaining to, a material body
or substance; material; -- opposed to spiritual or immaterial.
His omnipotence That to corporeal substance could add Speed almost
spiritual. Milton.
Corporeal property, such as may be seen and handled (as opposed to
incorporeal, which can not be seen or handled, and exists only in
contemplation). Mozley & W.

Syn.
 -- Corporal; bodily. See Corporal.

CORPOREALISM
Cor*po"re*al*ism (-z'm), n.

Defn: Materialism. Cudworth.

CORPOREALIST
Cor*po"re*al*ist (kr-p"r-al-st), n.

Defn: One who denies the reality of spiritual existences; a
materialist.
Some corporealists pretended . . . to make a world without a God. Bp.
Berkeley.

CORPOREALITY
Cor*po`re*al"i*ty (-l"-t), n.: pl. Corporealities (-t.

Defn: The state of being corporeal; corporeal existence.

CORPOREALLY
Cor*po"re*al*ly (kr-p"r-al-l), adv.

Defn: In the body; in a bodily form or manner.

CORPOREALNESS
Cor*po"re*al*ness (-ns), n.

Defn: Corporeality; corporeity.

CORPOREITY
Cor`po*re"i*ty (kr`p-r"-t), n. Etym: [LL. corporeitas: cf. F.
corpor.]

Defn: The state of having a body; the state of being corporeal;
materiality.
The one attributed corporeity to God. Bp. Stillingfleet.
Those who deny light to be matter, do not therefore deny its
corporeity. Coleridge.

CORPORIFY
Cor*por"i*fy (kr-pr"-f), v. t. Etym: [L. corpus body + -fy: cf. F.
corporifier.]

Defn: To embody; to form into a body. [Obs.] Boyle.

CORPOSANT
Cor"po*sant (kr"p-znt), n. Etym: [It. corpo santo holy body.]

Defn: St. Elmo's fire. See under Saint.

CORPS
Corps (kr, pl. krz), n. sing. & pl. Etym: [F., fr. L. corpus body.
See Corpse.]

1. The human body, whether living or dead. [Obs.] See Corpse, 1.
By what craft in my corps, it cometh [commences] and where. Piers
Plowman.

2. A body of men; esp., an organized division of the military
establishment; as, the marine corps; the corps of topographical
engineers; specifically, an army corps.
A corps operating with an army should consist of three divisions of
the line, a brigade of artillery, and a regiment of cavalry. Gen.
Upton (U. S. Tactics. )

3. A body or code of laws. [Obs.]
The whole corps of the law. Bacon.

4. (Eccl.)

Defn: The land with which a prebend or other ecclesiastical office is
endowed. [Obs.]
The prebendaries over and above their reserved rents have a corps.
Bacon.
Army corps, or (French) Corps d'armée (k, a body containing two or
more divisions of a large army, organized as a complete army in
itself.
 -- Corps de logis (ke l Etym: [F., body of the house], the principal
mass of a building, considered apart from its wings.
 -- Corps diplomatique (k Etym: [F., diplomatic body], the body of
ministers or envoys accredited to a government.

CORPSE
Corpse (krps), n. Etym: [OF. cors (sometimes written corps), F.
corps, L. corpus; akin to AS. hrif womb. See Midriff, and cf. Corse,
Corselet, Corps, Cuerpo.]

1. A human body in general, whether living or dead; -- sometimes
contemptuosly. [Obs.]

Note: Formerly written (after the French form) corps. See Corps, n.,
1.

2. The dead body of a human being; -- used also Fig.
He touched the dead corpse of Public Credit, and it sprung upon its
feet. D. Webster.
Corpse candle. (a) A thick candle formerly used at a lich wake, or
the customary watching with a corpse on the night before its
interment. (b) A luminous appearance, resembling the flame of a
candle, sometimes seen in churchyards and other damp places,
superstitiously regarded as portending death.
 -- Corpse gate, the gate of a burial place through which the dead
are carried, often having a covered porch; -- called also lich gate.

CORPULENCE; CORPULENCY
Cor"pu*lence (kr"p-lens), Cor"pu*len*cy (kr"p-len-s), n. Etym: [L.
corpulentia: cf. F. corpulence.]

1. Excessive fatness; fleshiness; obesity.

2. Thickness; density; compactness. [Obs.]
The heaviness and corpulency of water requiring a great force to
divide it. Ray.

CORPULENT
Cor"pu*lent (-p-lent), a. Etym: [L. corpulentus, fr. corpus: cf. F.
corpulent. See Corpse.]

1. Very fat; obese.

2. Solid; gross; opaque. [Obs.] Holland.

Syn.
 -- Stout; fleshy; bulky; obese. See Stout.

CORPULENTLY
Cor"pu*lent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a corpulent manner.

CORPUS
Cor"pus (-ps), n.; pl. Corpora (-p. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A body, living or dead; the corporeal substance of a thing.
Corpus callosum (k; pl. Corpora callosa (-s Etym: [NL., callous body]
(Anat.), the great band of commissural fibers uniting the cerebral
hemispheries. See Brain.
 -- Corpus Christi (kr Etym: [L., body of Christ] (R. C. Ch.), a
festival in honor of the eucharist, observed on the Thursday after
Trinity Sunday.
 -- Corpus Christi cloth. Same as Pyx cloth, under Pyx.
 -- Corpus delicti (d Etym: [L., the body of the crime] (Law), the
substantial and fundamental fact of the comission of a crime; the
proofs essential to establish a crime.
 -- Corpus luteum (l; pl. Corpora lutea (-. Etym: [NL., luteous body]
(Anat.), the reddish yellow mass which fills a ruptured Grafian
follicle in the mammalian ovary.
 -- Corpus striatum (str; pl. Corpora striata (-t. Etym: [NL.,
striate body] (Anat.), a ridge in the wall of each lateral ventricle
of the brain.

CORPUSCLE
Cor"pus*cle (-ps-s'l), n. Etym: [L. corpusculum, dim. of corpus.]

1. A minute particle; an atom; a molecule.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A protoplasmic animal cell; esp., such as float free, like
blood, lymph, and pus corpuscles; or such as are imbedded in an
intercellular matrix, like connective tissue and cartilage
corpuscles. See Blood.
Virchow showed that the corpuscles of bone are homologous with those
of connective tissue. Quain's Anat.
Red blood corpuscles (Physiol.), in man, yellowish, biconcave,
circular discs varying from 1/3500 to 1/3200 of an inch in diameter
and about 1/12400 of an inch thick. They are composed of a colorless
stroma filled in with semifluid hæmoglobin and other matters. In most
mammals the red corpuscles are circular, but in the camels, birds,
reptiles, and the lower vertebrates generally, they are oval, and
sometimes more or less spherical in form. In Amphioxus, and most
invertebrates, the blood corpuscles are all white or colorless.
 -- White blood corpuscles (Physiol.), rounded, slightly flattened,
nucleated cells, mainly protoplasmic in composition, and possessed of
contractile power. In man, the average size is about 1/2500 of an
inch, and they are present in blood in much smaller numbers than the
red corpuscles.

CORPUSCULAR
Cor*pus"cu*lar (kr-ps"k-lr), a. Etym: [Cf. F. corpusculaire.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or composed of, corpuscles, or small particles.
Corpuscular philosophy, that which attempts to account for the
phenomena of nature, by the motion, figure, rest, position, etc., of
the minute particles of matter.
 -- Corpuscular theory (Opt.), the theory enunciated by Sir Isaac
Newton, that light consists in the emission and rapid progression of
minute particles or corpuscles. The theory is now generally rejected,
and supplanted by the undulatory theory.

CORPUSCULARIAN
Cor*pus`cu*la"ri*an (-l"r-an), a.

Defn: Corpuscular. [Obs.]

CORPUSCULARIAN
Cor*pus`cu*la"ri*an, n.

Defn: An adherent of the corpuscular philosophy. Bentley.

CORPUSCULE
Cor*pus"cule (kr-ps"kl), n.

Defn: A corpuscle. [Obs.]

CORPUSCULOUS
Cor*pus"cu*lous (-k-ls), a.

Defn: Corpuscular. Tyndall.

CORRADE
Cor*rade" (kr-rd"), v. t. Etym: [L. corradere, -rasum; cor- + radere
to rub.]

1. To gnaw into; to wear away; to fret; to consume. [Obs.] Dr. R.
Clerke.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: To erode, as the bed of a stream. See Corrosion.

CORRADIAL
Cor*ra"di*al (kr-r"d-al), a.

Defn: Radiating to or from the same point. [R.] Coleridge.

CORRADIATE
Cor*ra"di*ate (kr-r"d-t), v. t.

Defn: To converge to one point or focus, as light or rays.

CORRADIATION
Cor*ra`di*a"tion (kr-r`d-"shn), n.

Defn: A conjunction or concentration of rays in one point. Bacom

CORRAL
Cor*ral" (kr-rl"; Sp. kr-rl"), n. Etym: [Sp., a yard, a yard for
cattle, fr. corro a circle or ring, fr. L. currere to run. Cf.
Kraal.]

Defn: A pen for animals; esp., an inclosure made with wagons, by
emigrants in the vicinity of hostile Indians, as a place of security
for horses, cattle, etc.

CORRAL
Cor*ral", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corraled (-rld" or -rld"); p. pr. & vb.
n. Corralling.]

Defn: To surround and inclose; to coop up; to put into an inclosed
space; -- primarily used with reference to securing horses and cattle
in an inclosure of wagons while traversing the plains, but in the
Southwestern United States now colloquially applied to the capturing,
securing, or penning of anything. Bartlett.

CORRASION
Cor*ra"sion (kr-r"zhn), n. Etym: [See Corrade.] (Geol.)

Defn: The erosion of the bed of a stream by running water,
principally by attrition of the detritus carried along by the stream,
but also by the solvent action of the water.

CORRASIVE
Cor*ra"sive (-sv), a.

Defn: Corrosive. [Obs.]
Corrasive sores which eat into the flesh. Holland.

CORRECT
Cor*rect" (kr-rkt"), a. Etym: [L. correctus, p. p. of corrigere to
make straight, to correct; cor- + regere to lead straight: cf. F.
correct. See Regular, Right, and cf. Escort.]

Defn: Set right, or made straight; hence, conformable to truth,
rectitude, or propriety, or to a just standard; nnot faulty or
imperfect; free from error; as, correct behavior; correct views.
Always use the most correct editions. Felton.

Syn.
 -- Accurate; right, exact; precise; regular; faultless. See
Accurate.

CORRECT
Cor*rect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corrected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Correcting.]

1. To make right; to bring to the standard of truth, justice, or
propriety; to rectify; as, to correct manners or principles.
This is a defect in the first make of same men's minds which can
scarce ever be corrected afterwards. T. Burnet.

2. To remove or retrench the faults or errors of; to amend; to set
right; as, to correct the proof (that is, to mark upon the margin the
changes to be made, or to make in the type the changes so marked).

3. To bring back, or attempt to bring back, to propriety in morals;
to reprove or punish for faults or deviations from moral rectitude;
to chastise; to discipline; as, a child should be corrected for
lying.
My accuser is my 'prentice; and when I did correct him for his fault
the other day, he did vow upon his knees he would be even with me.
Shak.

4. To counteract the qualities of one thing by those of another; --
said of whatever is wrong or injurious; as, to correct the acidity of
the stomach by alkaline preparations.

Syn.
 -- To amend; rectify; emend; reform; improve; chastise; punish;
discipline; chasten. See Amend.

CORRECTIBLE; CORRECTABLE
Cor*rect"i*ble (-rk"t-b'l), Cor*rect"a*ble (-rk"t-b'l), a.

Defn: Capable of being corrected.

CORRECTIFY
Cor*rect"i*fy (kr-rk"t-f), v. t.

Defn: To correct. [Obs.]
When your worship's plassed to correctify a lady. Beau & Fl.

CORRECTION
Cor*rec"tion (kr-rk"shn), n. Etym: [L. correctio: cf. F. correction.]

1. The act of correcting, or making that right which was wrong;
change for the better; amendment; rectification, as of an erroneous
statement.
The due correction of swearing, rioting, neglect of God's word, and
other scandalouss vices. Strype.

2. The act of reproving or punishing, or that which is intended to
rectify or to cure faults; punishment; discipline; chastisement.
Correction and instruction must both work Ere this rude beast will
profit. Shak.

3. That which is substituted in the place of what is wrong; an
emendation; as, the corrections on a proof sheet should be set in the
margin.

4. Abatement of noxious qualities; the counteraction of what is
inconvenient or hurtful in its effects; as, the correction of acidity
in the stomach.

5. An allowance made for inaccuracy in an instrument; as, chronometer
correction; compass correction. Correction line (Surv.), a parallel
used as a new base line in laying out township in the government
lands of the United States. The adoption at certain intervals of a
correction line is necessitated by the convergence of of meridians,
and the statute requirement that the townships must be squares.
 -- House of correction, a house where disorderly persons are
confined; a bridewell.
 -- Under correction, subject to correction; admitting the
possibility of error.

CORRECTIONAL
Cor*rec"tion*al (kr-rk"shn-al), a. Etym: [Cf. F. correctionnel.]

Defn: Tending to, or intended for, correction; used for correction;
as, a correctional institution.

CORRECTIONER
Cor*rec"tion*er (-r), n.

Defn: One who is, or who has been, in the house of correction. [Obs.]
Shak.

CORRECTIVE
Cor*rect"ive (krr-rk"tv), a. Etym: [Cf. F. correctif.]

1. Having the power to correct; tending to rectify; as, corrective
penalties.
Mulberries are pectoral, corrective of billious alkali. Arbuthnot.

2. Qualifying; limiting. "The Psalmist interposeth . . . this
corrective particle." Holdsworth.

CORRECTIVE
Cor*rect"ive, n.

1. That which has the power of correcting, altering, or counteracting
what is wrong or injurious; as, alkalies are correctives of acids;
penalties are correctives of immoral conduct. Burke.

2. Limitation; restriction. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

CORRECTLY
Cor*rect"ly (kr-rkt"l), adv.

Defn: In a correct manner; exactly; acurately; without fault or
error.

CORRECTNESS
Cor*rect"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being correct; as, the correctness of
opinions or of manners; correctness of taste; correctness in writing
or speaking; the correctness of a text or copy.

Syn.
 -- Accuracy; exactness; precision; propriety.

CORRECTOR
Cor*rect"or (kr-rkt"r), n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who, or that which, corrects; as, a corrector of abuses; a
corrector of the press; an alkali is a corrector of acids.

CORRECTORY
Cor*rect"o*ry (--r), a.

Defn: Containing or making correction; corrective.

CORRECTRESS
Cor*rect"ress (-rs), n.

Defn: A woman who corrects.

CORREGIDOR
Cor*reg"i*dor (kr-rj"-dr; Sp. kr-r`h-dr"), n. Etym: [Sp., orig., a
corrector.]

Defn: The chief magistrate of a Spanish town.

CORREI
Cor"rei (kr"r), n. Etym: [Scot., perh. fr. Celt. cor a corner.]

Defn: A hollow in the side of a hill, where game usually lies. "Fleet
foot on the correi." Sir W. Scott.

CORRELATABLE
Cor`re*lat"a*ble (k3r`r-lt"-b'l), a.

Defn: Such as can be correlated; as, correlatable phenomena.

CORRELATE
Cor`re*late" (kr`r-lt" or kr"r-lt`), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Correlated;
p. pr. & vb. n. Correlating.] Etym: [Pref. cor- + relate.]

Defn: To have reciprocal or mutual relations; to be mutually related.
Doctrine and worship correlate as theory and practice. Tylor.

CORRELATE
Cor`re*late", v. t.

Defn: To put in relation with each other; to connect together by the
disclosure of a mutual relation; as, to correlate natural phenomens.
Darwin.

CORRELATE
Cor"re*late (kr"r-lt), n.

Defn: One who, or that which, stands in a reciprocal relation to
something else, as father to son; a correlative. South.

CORRELATION
Cor`re*la"tion (-l"shn), n. Etym: [LL. correlatio; L. cor- + relatio:
cf. F. corrélation. Cf. Correlation.]

Defn: Reciprocal relation; corresponding similarity or parallelism of
relation or law; capacity of being converted into, or of giving place
to, one another, under certain conditions; as, the correlation of
forces, or of zymotic diseases. Correlation of energy, the relation
to one another of different forms of energy; -- usually having some
reference to the principle of conservation of energy. See
Conservation of energy, under Conservation.
 -- Correlation of forces, the relation between the forces which
matter, endowed with various forms of energy, may exert.

CORRELATIVE
Cor*rel"a*tive (kr-rl"-tv), a. Etym: [Cf. F. corrélatif.]

Defn: Having or indicating a reciprocal relation.
Father and son, prince and subject, stranger and citizen, are
correlative terms. Hume.

CORRELATIVE
Cor*rel"a*tive, n.

1. One who, or that which, stands in a reciprocal relation, or is
correlated, to some other person or thing. Locke.
Spiritual things and spiritual men are correlatives. Spelman.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: The antecedent of a pronoun.

CORRELATIVELY
Cor*rel"a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a correlative relation.

CORRELATIVENESS
Cor*rel"a*tive*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being correlative.

CORRELIGIONIST
Cor`re*li"gion*ist (kr`r-lj"n-st), n.

Defn: A co-religion

CORREPTION
Cor*rep"tion (kr-rp"shn), n. Etym: [L. correptio, fr. corripere to
seize.]

Defn: Chiding; reproof; reproach. [Obs.]
Angry, passionate correption being rather apt to provoke, than to
amend. Hammond.

CORRESPOND
Cor`re*spond" (kr`r-spnd"), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Corresponded; p. pr.
& vb. n. Corresponding.] Etym: [Pref. cor- + respond: cf. f.
correspondre.]

1. To be like something else in the dimensions and arrangement of its
parts; -- followed by with or to; as, concurring figures correspond
with each other throughout.
None of them [the forms of Sidney's sonnets] correspond to the
Shakespearean type. J. A. Symonds.

2. To be adapted; to be congruous; to suit; to agree; to fit; to
answer; -- followed by to.
Words being but empty sounds, any farther than they are signs of our
ideas, we can not but assent to them as they correspond to those
ideas we have, but no farther. Locke.

3. To have intercourse or communion; especially, to hold intercourse
or to communicate by sending and receiving letters; -- followed by
with.
After having been long in indirect communication with the exiled
family, he [Atterbury] began to correspond directly with the
Pretender. Macualay.

Syn.
 -- To agree; fit; answer; suit; write; address.

CORRESPONDENCE
Cor`re*spond"ence (-spnd"ens), n. Etym: [Cf. F. correspondance.]

1. Friendly intercourse; reciprocal exchange of civilities;
especially, intercourse between persons by means of letters.
Holding also good correspondence with the other great men in the
state. Bacon.
To facilitate correspondence between one part of London and another,
was not originally one of the objects of the post office. Macualay.

2. The letters which pass between correspondents.

3. Mutual adaptation, relation, or agreement, of one thing to
another; agreement; congruity; fitness; relation.

CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOL
Cor`res*pond"ence school.

Defn: A school that teaches by correspondence, the instruction being
based on printed instruction sheets and the recitation papers written
by the student in answer to the questions or requirements of these
sheets. In the broadest sense of the term correspondence school may
be used to include any educational institution or department for
instruction by correspondence, as in a university or other
educational bodies, but the term is commonly applied to various
educational institutions organized on a commercial basis, some of
which offer a large variety of courses in general and technical
subjects, conducted by specialists.

CORRESPONDENCY
Cor`re*spond"en*cy (k$r`r--spnd"en-s), n.; pl. Correspondencies (-s.

Defn: Same as Correspondence, 3.
The correspondencies of types and antitypes . . . may be very
reasonable confirmations. S. Clarke.

CORRESPONDENT
Cor`re*spond"ent (-ent), a. Etym: [Cf. F. correspondant.]

Defn: Suitable; adapted; fit; corresponding; congruous; conformable;
in accord or agreement; obedient; willing.
Action correspondent or repugnant unto the law. Hooker.
As fast the correspondent passions rise. Thomson.
I will be correspondent to command. Shak.

CORRESPONDENT
Cor`re*spond"ent, n.

1. One with whom intercourse is carried on by letter. Macualay.

2. One who communicates information, etc., by letter or telegram to a
newspaper or periodical.

3. (Com.)

Defn: One who carries on commercial intercourse by letter or telegram
with a person or firm at a distance.

CORRESPONDENTLY
Cor`re*spond"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a a corresponding manner; conformably; suitably.

CORRESPONDING
Cor`re*spond"ing, a.

1. Answering; conformable; agreeing; suiting; as, corresponding
numbers.

2. Carrying on intercourse by letters. Corresponding member of a
society, one residing at a distance, who has been invited to
correspond with the society, and aid in carrying out its designs
without taking part in its management.

CORRESPONDINGLY
Cor`re*spond"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a corresponding manner; conformably.

CORRESPONSIVE
Cor`re*spon"sive (-r-spn"sv), a.

Defn: Corresponding; conformable; adapted. Shak.
 -- Cor`re*spon"sive*ly, adv.

CORRIDOR
Cor"ri*dor (kr"r-dr or -dr), n. Etym: [F., fr. Itt. corridpore, or
Sp. corredor; prop., a runner, hence, a running or long line, a
gallery, fr. L. currere to run. See Course.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A gallery or passageway leading to several apartments of a
house.

2. (Fort.)

Defn: The covered way lying round the whole compass of the
fortifications of a place. [R.]

CORRIDOR TRAIN
Cor"ri*dor train.

Defn: A train whose coaches are connected so as to have through its
entire length a continuous corridor, into which the compartments
open. [Eng.]

CORRIE
Cor"rie (kr"r), n.

Defn: Same as Correi. [Scot.] Geikie.

CORRIGENDUM
Cor`ri*gen"dum (kr`r-jn"dm), n.; pl. Corrigenda (-d. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A fault or error to be corrected.

CORRIGENT
Cor"ri*gent (kr"r--jent), n. Etym: [L. corrigens, p. pr. of corrigere
to correct.] (Med.)

Defn: A substance added to a medicine to mollify or modify its
action. Dunglison.

CORRIGIBILITY
Cor`ri*gi*bil"i*ty (-j-bl"-t), n.

Defn: Quality of being corrigible; capability of being corrected;
corrigibleness.

CORRIGIBLE
Cor"ri*gi*ble (kr"r-j-b'l), a. Etym: [LL. corribilis, fr. L.
corrigere to correct: cf. F. corrigible. See Correrct.]

1. Capable of being set right, amended, or reformed; as, a corrigible
fault.

2. Submissive to correction; docile. "Bending down his corrigible
neck." Shak.

3. Deserving chastisement; punishable. [Obs.]
He was taken up very short, and adjudged corrigible for such
presumptuous language. Howell.

4. Having power to correct; corrective. [Obs.]
The . . . .corrigible authority of this lies in our wills. Shak.

CORRIGIBLENESS
Cor"ri*gi*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being corrigible; corrigibility.

CORRIVAL
Cor*ri"val (kr-r"val), n.

Defn: A fellow rival; a competitor; a rival; also, a companion. [R.]
Shak.

CORRIVAL
Cor*ri"val, a.

Defn: Having rivaling claims; emulous; in rivalry. [R.] Bp.
Fleetwood.

CORRIVAL
Cor*ri"val, v. i. & t.

Defn: To compete with; to rival. [R.]

CORRIVALRY
Cor*ri"val*ry (kr-r"val-r), n.

Defn: Corivalry. [R.]

CORRIVALSHIP
Cor*ri"val*ship, n.

Defn: Corivalry. [R.]
By the corrivalship of Shager his false friend. Sir T. Herbert.

CORRIVATE
Cor"ri*vate (kr"r-vt), v. t. Etym: [L. corrivatus, p. p. of corrivare
to corrivate.]

Defn: To cause to flow together, as water drawn from several streams.
[Obs.] Burton.

CORRIVATION
Cor`ri*va"tion (-v"shn), n. Etym: [L. corrivatio.]

Defn: The flowing of different streams into one. [Obs.] Burton.

CORROBORANT
Cor*rob"o*rant (kr-rb"-rant), a. Etym: [L. corroborans, p. pr. See
Corroborate.]

Defn: Strengthening; supporting; corroborating. Bacon.
 -- n.

Defn: Anything which gives strength or support; a tonic.
The brain, with its proper corroborants, especially with sweet odors
and with music. Southey.

CORROBORATE
Cor*rob"o*rate (kr-rb"-rt), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corroborated (-r`td);
p. pr. & vb. n. Corroborating (-r`tng). ] Etym: [L. corroboratus, p.
p. of corroborare to corroborate; cor- + roborare to strengthen,
robur strength. See Robust.]

1. To make strong, or to give additional strength to; to strengthen.
[Obs.]
As any limb well and duly exercised, grows stronger, the nerves of
the body are corroborated thereby. I. Watts.

2. To make more certain; to confirm; to establish.
The concurrence of all corroborates the same truth. I. Taylor.

CORROBORATE
Cor*rob"o*rate (-rt), a.

Defn: Corroborated. [Obs.] Bacon.

CORROBORATION
Cor*rob`o*ra"tion (kr-rb`-r"shn), n. Etym: [Cf. F. corroboration.]

1. The act of corroborating, strengthening, or confirming; addition
of strength; confirmation; as, the corroboration of an argument, or
of information.

2. That which corroborates.

CORROBORATIVE
Cor*rob"o*ra*tive (kr-rb"-r-tv), a. Etym: [Cf. F. corroboratif.]

Defn: Tending to strengthen of confirm.

CORROBORATIVE
Cor*rob"o*ra*tive, n.

Defn: A medicine that strengthens; a corroborant. Wiseman.

CORROBORATORY
Cor*rob"o*ra*to*ry (-t-r), a.

Defn: Tending to strengthen; corroborative; as, corroboratory facts.

CORROBOREE
Cor*rob"o*ree`, n. [Also corrobboree, corrobori, etc.] [Native name.]

1. A nocturnal festivity with which the Australian aborigines
celebrate tribal events of importance. Symbolic dances are given by
the young men of the tribe, while the women act as musicians.

2.  A song or chant made for such a festivity.

3.  A festivity or social gathering, esp. one of a noisy or
uproarious character; hence, tumult; uproar. [Australia]

CORROBORY
Cor*rob"o*ry, n. & v.

Defn: See Corroboree.

CORRODE
Cor*rode" (kr-rd") v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corroded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Corroding.] Etym: [L. corrodere, -rosum; cor + rodere to gnaw: cf. F.
corroder. See Rodent.]

1. To eat away by degrees; to wear away or diminish by gradually
separating or destroying small particles of, as by action of a strong
acid or a caustic alkali.
Aqua fortis corroding copper . . . is wont to reduce it to a green-
blue solution. Boyle.

2. To consume; to wear away; to prey upon; to impair.

CORRODE
Cor*rode", v. i.

Defn: To have corrosive action; to be subject to corrosion. Corroding
lead, lead sufficiently pure to be used in making white lead by a
process of corroding.

Syn.
 -- To canker; gnaw; rust; waste; wear away.

CORRODENT
Cor*rod"ent (kr-r"dent), a. Etym: [L. corrodens, p. pr. of
corrodere.]

Defn: Corrosive. [R.] Bp. King.

CORRODENT
Cor*rod"ent, n.

Defn: Anything that corrodes. Bp. King.

CORRODIATE
Cor*ro"di*ate (kr-r"d-t), v. t. Etym: [See Corrode.]

Defn: To eat away by degrees; to corrode. [Obs.] Sandys.

CORRODIBILITY
Cor*ro`di*bil"i*ty (kr-r`d-bl"-t), n.

Defn: The qualityof being corrodible. [R.] Johnson.

CORRODIBLE
Cor*rod"i*ble (kr-r"d-b'l), a.

Defn: Capable of being corroded; corrosible. Sir T. Browne.

CORROSIBILITY
Cor*ro`si*bil"i*ty (kr-r`s-bl"-t), n.

Defn: Corrodibility. "Corrosibility . . . answers corrosiveness."
Boyle.

CORROSIBLE
Cor*ro"si*ble (kr-r"s-b'l), a.

Defn: Corrodible. Bailey.

CORROSIBLENESS
Cor*ro"si*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being corrosible. Bailey.

CORROSION
Cor*ro"sion (kr-r"zhn), n. Etym: [LL. corrosio: cf. F. corrosion. See
Corrode.]

Defn: The action or effect of corrosive agents, or the process of
corrosive change; as, the rusting of iron is a variety of corrosion.
Corrosion is a particular species of dissolution of bodies, either by
an acid or a saline menstruum. John Quincy.

CORROSIVE
Cor*ro"sive (kr-r"sv), a. Etym: [Cf. F. corrosif.]

1. Eating away; having the power of gradually wearing, changing, or
destroying the texture or substance of a body; as, the corrosive
action of an acid. "Corrosive liquors." Grew. "Corrosive
famine."Thomson.

2. Having the quality of fretting or vexing.
Care is no cure, but corrosive. Shak.
Corrosive sublimate (Chem.), mercuric chloride, HgCl2; so called
because obtained by sublimation, and because of its harsh irritating
action on the body tissue. Usually it is in the form of a heavy,
transparent, crystalline substance, easily soluble, and of an acrid,
burning taste. It is a virulent poison, a powerful antiseptic, and an
exellent antisyphilitic; called also mercuric bichloride. It is to be
carefully distinguished from calomel, the mild chloride of mercury.

CORROSIVE
Cor*ro"sive, n.

1. That which has the quality of eating or wearing away gradually.
[Corrosives] act either directly, by chemically destroying the part,
or indirectly by causing inflammation and gangrene. Dunglison.

2. That which has the power of fretting or irritating.
Such speeches . . . are grievous corrosives. Hooker.
-- Cor*ro"sive*ly, adv.
 -- Cor*ro"sive*ness, n.

CORROVAL
Cor*ro"val (kr-r"val), n.

Defn: A dark brown substance of vegetable origin, allied to curare,
and used by the natives of New Granada as an arrow poison.

CORROVALINE
Cor*ro"va*line (-v-ln or -ln), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous alkaloid extracted from corroval, and characterized
by its immediate action in paralyzing the heart.

CORRUGANT
Cor"ru*gant (kr"r-gant), a. Etym: [L. corrugans, p. pr. See
Corrugate.]

Defn: Having the power of contracting into wrinkles. Johnson.

CORRUGATE
Cor"ru*gate (kr"r-gt), a. Etym: [L. corrugatus, p. p. of corrugare;
cor-+ rugare to wrinkle, ruga wrinkle; of uncertain origin.]

Defn: Wrinkled; crumpled; furrowed; contracted into ridges and
furrows.

CORRUGATE
Cor"ru*gate (-gt), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Corrugated (-g`td); p. pr. &
vb. n. Corrugating (-g`tng).]

Defn: To form or shape into wrinkles or folds, or alternate ridges
and grooves, as by drawing, contraction, pressure, bending, or
otherwise; to wrinkle; to purse up; as, to corrugate plates of iron;
to corrugate the forehead. Corrugated iron, sheet iron bent into a
series of alternate ridges and grooves in parallel lines, giving it
greater stiffness.
 -- Corrugated paper, a thick, coarse paper corrugated in order to
give it elasticity. It is used as a wrapping material for fragile
articles, as bottles.

CORRUGATION
Cor`ru*ga"tion (kr`r-g"shn), n. Etym: [Cf. F. corrugation.]

Defn: The act corrugating; contraction into wrinkles or alternate
ridges and grooves.

CORRUGATOR
Cor"ru*ga`tor (kr"r-g`tr), n. Etym: [NL.; cf. F. corrugateur.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which contracts the skin of the forehead into
wrinkles.

CORRUGENT
Cor*ru"gent (kr-r"jent), a. (Anat.)

Defn: Drawing together; contracting; -- said of the corrugator.
[Obs.]

CORRUMP
Cor*rump" (kr-rmp"), v. t. Etym: [L. corrumpere.]

Defn: To corrupt. See Corrupt. [Obs.] Chauser.

CORRUMPABLE
Cor*rump"a*ble (--b'l), a.

Defn: Corruptible. [Obs.]

CORRUPT
Cor*rupt` (kr-rpt"), a. Etym: [L. corruptus, p. p. of corrumpere to
corrupt; cor- + rumpere to break. See Rupture.]

1. Changed from a sound to a putrid state; spoiled; tainted;
vitiated; unsound.
Who with such corrupt and pestilent bread would feed them. Knolles.

2. Changed from a state of uprightness, correctness, truth, etc., to
a worse state; vitiated; depraved; debased; perverted; as, corrupt
language; corrupt judges.
At what ease Might corrupt minds procure knaves as corrupt To swear
against you. Shak.

3. Abounding in errors; not genuine or correct; as, the text of the
manuscript is corrupt.

CORRUPT
Cor*rupt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corrupted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Corrupting.]

1. To change from a sound to a putrid or putrescent state; to make
putrid; to putrefy.

2. To change from good to bad; to vitiate; to deprave; to pervert; to
debase; to defile.
Evil communications corrupt good manners. 1. Cor. xv. 33.

3. To draw aside from the path of rectitude and duty; as, to corrupt
a judge by a bribe.
Heaven is above all yet; there sits a Judge That no king can corrupt.
Shak.

4. To debase or render impure by alterations or innovations; to
falsify; as, to corrupt language; to corrupt the sacred text.
He that makes an ill use of it [language], though he does not corrupt
the fountains of knowledge, . . . yet he stops the pines. Locke.

5. To waste, spoil, or consume; to make worthless.
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust
doth corrupt. Matt. vi. 19.

CORRUPT
Cor*rupt" (kr-rpt"), v. i.

1. To become putrid or tainted; to putrefy; to rot. Bacon.

2. To become vitiated; to lose putity or goodness.

CORRUPTER
Cor*rupt"er (kr-rp"tr), n.

Defn: One who corrupts; one who vitiates or taints; as, a corrupter
of morals.

CORRUPTFUL
Cor*rupt"ful (-fl), a.

Defn: Tending to corrupt; full of corruption. [Obs.] "Corruptful
bribes." Spenser.

CORRUPTIBILITY
Cor*rupt`i*bil"i*ty (kr-rp`t-bl"-t), n. Etym: [L. corruptibilitas:
cf. F. corruptibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being corruptible; the possibility or liability
of being corrupted; corruptibleness. Burke.

CORRUPTIBLE
Cor*rupt"i*ble (kr-rp"t-b'l), a. Etym: [L. corruptibilis: cf. F.
corruptible.]

1. Capable of being made corrupt; subject to decay. "Our corruptible
bodies." Hooker.
Ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold. 1
Pet. i. 18.

2. Capable of being corrupted, or morally vitiated; susceptible of
depravation.
They systematically corrupt very corruptible race. Burke.
-- Cor*rupt"i*ble*ness, n.
 -- Cor*rupt"i*bly, adv.

CORRUPTIBLE
Cor*rupt"i*ble, n.

Defn: That which may decay and perish; the human body. [Archaic] 1
Cor. xv. 53.

CORRUPTINGLY
Cor*rupt"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner that corrupts.

CORRUPTION
Cor*rup"tion (kr-rp"shn), n. Etym: [F. corruption, L. corruptio.]

1. The act of corrupting or making putrid, or state of being corrupt
or putrid; decomposition or disorganization, in the process of
putrefaction; putrefaction; deterioration.
The inducing and accelerating of putrefaction is a subject of very
universal inquiry; for corruption is a reciprocal to "generation".
Bacon.

2. The product of corruption; putrid matter.

3. The act of corrupting or of impairing integrity, virtue, or moral
principle; the state of being corrupted or debased; loss of purity or
integrity; depravity; wickedness; impurity; bribery.
It was necessary, by exposing the gross corruptions of monasteries, .
. . to exite popular indignation against them. Hallam.
They abstained from some of the worst methods of corruption usual to
their party in its earlier days. Bancroft.

Note: Corruption, when applied to officers, trustees, etc., signifies
the inducing a violation of duty by means of pecuniary
considerations. Abbott.

4. The act of changing, or of being changed, for the worse; departure
from what is pure, simple, or correct; as, a corruption of style;
corruption in language. Corruption of blood (Law), taint or impurity
of blood, in consequence of an act of attainder of treason or felony,
by which a person is disabled from inheriting any estate or from
transmitting it to others.
Corruption of blood can be removed only by act of Parliament.
Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- Putrescence; putrefaction; defilement; contamination;
deprivation; debasement; adulteration; depravity; taint. See
Depravity.

CORRUPTIONIST
Cor*rup"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who corrupts, or who upholds corruption. Sydney Smith.

CORRUPTIVE
Cor*rupt"ive (kr-rp"tv), a. Etym: [L. corruptivus: cf. F. corruptif.]

Defn: Having the quality of taining or vitiating; tending to produce
corruption.
It should be endued with some corruptive quality for so speedy a
dissolution of the meat. Ray.

CORRUPTLESS
Cor*rupt"less (kr-rpt"ls), a.

Defn: Not susceptible of corruption or decay; incorruptible. Dryden.

CORRUPTLY
Cor*rupt"ly, adv.

Defn: In a corrupt manner; by means of corruption or corrupting
influences; wronfully.

CORRUPTNESS
Cor*rupt"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being corrupt.

CORRUPTRESS
Cor*rupt"ress (-rs), n.

Defn: A woman who corrupts.
Thou studied old corruptress. Beau & Fl.

CORSAC
Cor"sac (kr"sk), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The corsak.

CORSAGE
Cor"sage (kr"sj), n. Etym: [F. See Corset.]

Defn: The waist or bodice of a lady's dress; as. a low corsage.

CORSAIR
Cor"sair (kr"sr), n. Etym: [F. corsaire (cf. It. corsare, corsale,
Pr. corsari), LL. corsarius, fr. L. cursus a running, course, whence
Sp. corso cruise, corsa cruise, coasting voyage, corsear to cruise
against the enemy, to pirate, corsario cruising, a privateer
authorized to cruise against the enemy. See Course.]

1. A pirate; one who cruises about without authorization from any
government, to seize booty on sea or land.

2. A piratical vessel.
Barbary corsairs . . . infested the coast of the Mediterranean.
Prescott.

CORSAK
Cor"sak (kr"sk), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small foxlike mammal (Cynalopex corsac), found in Central
Asia. [Written also corsac.]

CORSE
Corse (krs or krs; 277), n. Etym: [OF. cors, F. corps. See Corpse.]

1. A living body or its bulk. [Obs.]
For he was strong, and of so mighty corse As ever wielded spear in
warlike hand. Spenser.

2. A corpse; the dead body of a human being. [Archaic or Poetic]
Set down the corse; or, by Saint Paul, I'll make a corse of him that
disobeys. Shak.

CORSELET
Corse"let (krs"lt), n. Etym: [F., dim. of OF. cors. F. corps, body.
See Corse.]

1. Armor for the body, as, the body breastplate and backpiece taken
together; -- also, used for the entire suit of the day, including
breastplate and backpiece, tasset and headpiece.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The thorax of an insect.

CORSEPRESENT
Corse"pres`ent (krs"prz`ent or krs"-), n. (Engl.Law)

Defn: An offering made to the church at the interment of a dead body.
Blackstone.

CORSET
Cor"set (kr"st), n. Etym: [F., dim. of OF. cors, F. corps, body. See
Corse.]

1. In the Middle Ages, a gown or basque of which the body was close
fitting, worn by both men and women.

2. An article of dress inclosing the chest and waist worn (chiefly by
women) to support the body or to modify its shape; stays.

CORSET
Cor"set (kr"st), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corseted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Corseting.]

Defn: To inclose in corsets.

CORSLET
Cors"let (krs"lt), n.

Defn: A corselet. [Obs.] Hakluyt.

CORSNED
Cors"ned (krs"nd), n. Etym: [AS. corsn.] (AS. Laws)

Defn: The morsel of execration; a species of ordeal consisting in the
eating of a piece of bread consecrated by imprecation. If the
suspected person ate it freely, he was pronounced innocent; but if it
stuck in his throat, it was considered as a proof of his guilt.
Burril.

CORTEGE
Cor`tége" (kr`tzh"), n. Etym: [F., fr. It. corteggio train, fr. corte
court. See Court.]

Defn: A train of attendants; a procession.

CORTES
Cor"tes (kr"ts), n. pl. Etym: [Sp. & Pg., fr. corte court.]

Defn: The legislative assembly, composed of nobility, clergy, and
representatives of cities, which in Spain and in Portugal answers, in
some measure, to the Parliament of Great Britain.

CORTES GERAES
Cor"tes Ge*ra"es. [Pg.]

Defn: See Legislature, Portugal.

CORTEX
Cor"tex (kr"tks), n.; pl. Cortices (-t. Etym: [L., bark. Cf. Cork.]

1. Bark, as of a tree; hence, an outer covering.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Bark; rind; specifically, cinchona bark.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The outer or superficial part of an organ; as, the cortex or
gray exterior substance of the brain.

CORTICAL
Cor"ti*cal (kr"t-kal), a. Etym: [L. cortex bark: cf. F. cortical.]

Defn: Belonging to, or consisting of, bark or rind; resembling bark
or rind; external; outer; superficial; as, the cortical substance of
the kidney.

CORTICATE; CORTICATED
Cor"ti*cate (kr"t-kt), Cor"ti*ca`ted (-k`td), a. Etym: [L.
corticatus.]

Defn: Having a special outer covering of a nature unlike the interior
part.

CORTICIFER
Cor*tic"i*fer (kr-ts"-fr), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Gorgoniacea; -- so called because the fleshy part
surrounds a solid axis, like a bark.

CORTICIFEROUS
Cor`ti*cif"er*ous (kr`t-sf"r-s), a. Etym: [L. cortex, corticis, bark
-- -ferous: cf. F. corticif.]

1. Producing bark or something that resembling that resembles bark.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a barklike c

CORTICIFORM
Cor*tic"i*form (kr-ts"-frm), a. Etym: [L. cortex, corticis, bark + -
form: cf. F. corticiforme.]

Defn: Resembling, or having the form of, bark or rind.

CORTICINE
Cor"ti*cine (kr"t-sn), n. Etym: [F., fr. L. cortex, corticis, bark.]

Defn: A material for carpeting or floor covering, made of ground cork
and caoutchouc or India rubber.

CORTICOSE
Cor"ti*cose` (-ks`), a. Etym: [L. corticosus.]

Defn: Abounding in bark; resembling bark; barky.

CORTICOUS
Cor"ti*cous (-ks), a.

Defn: Relating to, or resembling, bark; corticose.

CORTILE
Cor"tile (kr"tl; It. kr-t"l), n. Etym: [It., fr. corte court.]

Defn: An open internal courtyard inclosed by the walls of a large
dwelling house or other large and stately building.

CORUNDUM
Co*run"dum (k-rn"dm), n.; pl. Corundums (-d. [Also corindon.] Etym:
[From Hind. kurand corundum stone.] (Min.)

Defn: The earth alumina, as found native in a crystalline state,
including sapphire, which is the fine blue variety; the oriental
ruby, or red sapphire; the oriental amethyst, or purple sapphire; and
adamantine spar, the hair-brown variety. It is the hardest substance
found native, next to the diamond.

Note: The name corundum is sometimes restricted to the non-
transparent or coarser kinds. Emery is a dark-colored granular
variety, usually admixed with magnetic iron ore.

CORUSCANT
Co*rus"cant (k-rs"kant), a. Etym: [L. coruscans, p. pr. See
Coruscate.]

Defn: Glittering in flashes; flashing. Howell.

CORUSCATE
Cor"us*cate (kr"s-kt or k-rs"kr), v. i. Etym: [L. coruscare to flash,
vibrate.]

Defn: To glitter in flashes; to flash.

Syn.
 -- To glisten; gleam; sparkle; radiate.

CORUSCATION
Cor`us*ca"tion (kr`s-k"shn), n. Etym: [L. coruscatio: cf. F.
coruscattion.]

1. A sudden flash or play of light.
A very vivid but exceeding short-lived splender, not to call
coruscation. Boyle.

2. A flash of intellectual brilliancy.
He might have illuminated his times with the incessant cor of his
genius. I. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- Flash; glitter; blaze; gleam; sparkle.

CORVE
Corve (krv), n.

Defn: See Corf.

CORVEE
Cor`vee" (kr`v" or -v"), n. Etym: [F. corvée, fr. LL. corvada,
corrogata, fr. L. corrogare to entreat togetther; cor- + rogare to
ask.] (Feudal Law)

Defn: An obligation to perform certain services, as the repair of
roads, for the lord or sovereign.

CORVEN
Cor"ven (kr"ven), obs.

Defn: p. p. of Carve. Chaucer.

CORVET; CORVETTE
Cor"vet (kr"vt), Cor*vette" (kr-vr"), n. Etym: [F. corvette, fr. Pg.
corveta or Sp. corbeta, fr. L. corbita a slow-sailing ship of burden,
fr, corbis basket. Cf. Corbeil.] (Naut.)

Defn: A war vessel, ranking next below a frigate, and having usually
only one tier of guns; -- called in the United States navy a sloop of
war.

CORVETTO
Cor*vet"to (-vt"t), n. (Min.)

Defn: A curvet. Peacham.

CORVINE
Cor"vine (kr"vn), a. Etym: [L. corvinus, fr. corvus crow.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the crow; crowlike.

CORVORANT
Cor"vo*rant (kr"v-rant), n.

Defn: See Cormorant.

CORYBANT
Cor"y*bant (kr"-bnt), n.; pl. E. Corybants (-bCorybantes (-b. Etym:
[L. Corybas, Gr.

Defn: One of the priests of Cybele in Phrygia. The rites of the
Corybants were accompanied by wild music, dancing, etc.

CORYBANTIASM
Cor`y*ban"ti*asm (-bn"t-z'm), n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A kind of frenzy in which the patient is tormented by fantastic
visions and want of sleep. Dunglison.

CORYBANTIC
Cor`y*ban"tic (kr`-bn"tk), a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Corybantes or their
rites; frantic; frenzied; as, a corybantic dance.

CORYMB
Cor"ymb (kr"mb or -m; 220), n. Etym: [L. corymbus cluster of flowers,
Gr. (Bot.)
(a) A flat-topped or convex cluster of flowers, each on its own
footstalk, and arising from different points of a common axis, the
outermost blossoms expanding first, as in the hawthorn.
(b) Any flattish flower cluster, whatever be the order of blooming,
or a similar shaped cluster of fruit.

CORYMBED
Cor"ymbed (kr"mbd), a. (Bot.)

Defn: Corymbose.

CORYMBIFEROUS
Cor`ym*bif"er*ous (kr`m-bf"r-s), a. Etym: [L. corymbifer; corymbus a
cluster of flowers + ferre to bearcorimbif.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing corymbs of flowers or fruit.

CORYMBOSE
Co*rym"bose (k-rm"bs or kr"m-bs`), a. (Bot.)

Defn: Consisting of corymbs, or resembling them in form. [Written
also corymbous.]

CORYMBOSELY
Co*rym"bose*ly, adv.

Defn: In corymbs.

CORYPHAENOID
Cor`y*phæ"noid (kr`-f"noid), a. Etym: [NL. coruphaena + -oid.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to, or like, the genus Coryphæna. See Dolphin.

CORYPHEE
Co`ry`phee (k`r`f"), n. Etym: [F.] (Drama)

Defn: A ballet dancer.

CORYPHENE
Cor"y*phene` (kr"-fn`), n. Etym: [NL. coryphena, fr. Gr. coryph.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of the genus Coryphæna. See Dolphin. (2)

CORYPHEUS
Cor`y*phe"us (kr`-f"s), n.; pl. E. Corypheuses (-Coryphei (-f. Etym:
[L. coryphaeus, fr. Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: The conductor, chief, or leader of the dramatic chorus; hence,
the chief or leader of a party or interest.
That noted corypheus [Dr. John Owen] of the Independent faction.
South.

CORYPHODON
Co*ryph"o*don (k-rf"-dn), n. Etym: [Gr. (Palen.)

Defn: A genus of extinct mammals from the eocene tertiary of Europe
and America. Its species varied in size between the tapir and
rhinoceros, and were allied to those animals, but had short,
plantigrade, five-toed feet, like the elephant.

CORYPHODONT
Co*ryph"o*dont (-dnt), a. (Paleon.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Coryphodon.

CORYZA
Co*ry"za (k-r"z), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Nasal catarrh.

COSCINOMANCY
Cos*cin"o*man`cy (ks-sn"-mn`s or ks"s-n-), n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of a suspended sieve.

COSCOROBA
Cos`co*ro"ba (ks`k-r"b), n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, white, South American duck, of the genus Cascoroba,
resembling a swan.

COSECANT
Co*se"cant (k-s"knt), n. Etym: [For co. secans, an abbrev. of L.
complementi secans.] (Trig.)

Defn: The secant of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of
Functions.

COSEN
Cos"en (kz"'n), v. t.

Defn: See Cozen.

COSENAGE
Cos"en*age (kz"'n-j), n.

Defn: See Cozenage.

COSENING
Cos"en*ing, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: Anything done deceitfully, and which could not be properly
designated by any special name, whether belonging to contracts or
not. Burrill.

COSENTIENT
Co*sen"tient (k-sn"shent), a.

Defn: Perceiving together.

COSEY
Co"sey (k"z), a.

Defn: See Cozy. Dickens.

COSHER
Cosh"er (ksh"r), v. t. Etym: [Ir. cosair a feast, a banquet or cf. F.
coucher to lie. Cf. Couch, Coshering.]

1. (Old Law)

Defn: To levy certain exactions or tribute upon; to lodge and eat at
the expense of. See Coshering.

2. To treat with hospitality; to pet. [Ireland]

COSHERER
Cosh"er*er (ksh"r-r), n.

Defn: One who coshers.

COSHERING
Cosh"er*ing, n. (Old Law)

Defn: A feudal prerogative of the lord of the soil entitling him to
lodging and food at his tenant's house. Burrill.
Sometimes he contrived, in deflance of the law, to live by coshering,
that is to say, by quartering himself on the old tentants of his
family, who, wretched as was their own condition, could not refuse a
portion of their pittance to one whom they still regarded as their
rightful lord. Macaulay.

COSIER
Co"sier (k"zhr), n. Etym: [Cf. OF. coussier maker of mattresses; or
couseor tailor, fr. OF. & F. coudre, p. p. cousu to sew, fr. L.
consuere to sew together; con- + seure to sew. See Sew to stitch.]

Defn: A tailor who botches his work. [Obs.] Shak.

COSIGNIFICATIVE
Co`sig*nif"i*ca*tive (k`s"), a.

Defn: Having the same signification. Cockerham.

COSIGNITARY
Co*sig"ni*ta*ry (k-sg"n-t-r), a. Etym: [Pref. co- + sign. Cf.
Signatory.]

Defn: Signing some important public document with another or with
others; as, a treaty violated by one of the cosignitary powers.

COSIGNITARY
Co*sig"ni*ta*ry, n.; pl. Cosignitaries (-r.

Defn: One who signs a treaty or public document along with others or
another; as, the cosignitaries of the treaty of Berlin.

COSILY
Co"si*ly (k"z-l), adv.

Defn: See Cozily.

COSINAGE
Cos"in*age (ks"'n-j), n. Etym: [See Cousinage.] (Law)
(a) Collateral relationship or kindred by blood; consanguinity.
Burrill.
(b) A writ to recover possession of an estate in lands, when a
stranger has entered, after the death of the grandfather's
grandfather, or other distant collateral relation. Blackstone.

COSINE
Co"sine (k"sn), n. Etym: [For co. sinus, an abbrev. of L. complementi
sinus.] (Trig.)

Defn: The sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of
Functions.

COSMETIC; COSMETICAL
Cos*met"ic (kz-mt"k), Cos*met"ic*al (--kal), a. Etym: [Gr.
kosmitiko`s skilled in decorating, fr. ko`smos order, ornament: cf.
F. cosmétique. See Cosmos.]

Defn: Imparting or improving beauty, particularly the beauty of the
complexion; as, a cosmetical preparation.
First, robed in white, the nymph intent adores, With head uncovered,
the cosmetic powers. Pope.

COSMETIC
Cos*met"ic, n.

Defn: Any external application intended to beautify and improve the
complexion.

COSMIC; COSMICAL
Cos"mic (kz"mk), Cos"mic*al (-m-kal), a. Etym: [Gr. kosmiko`s of the
world, fr. ko`smos: cf. F. cosmique. See Cosmos.]

1. Pertaining to the universe, and having special reference to
universal law or order, or to the one grand harmonious system of
things; hence; harmonious; orderly.

2. Pertaining to the solar system as a whole, and not to the earth
alone.

3. Characteristic of the cosmos or universe; inconceivably great;
vast; as, cosmic speed. "Cosmic ranges of time." Tyndall.

4. (Astron.)

Defn: Rising or setting with the sun; -- the opposite of acronycal.

COSMICALLY
Cos"mic*al*ly, adv.

1. With the sun at rising or setting; as, a star is said to rise or
set cosmically when it rises or sets with the sun.

2. Universally. [R.] Emerson.

COSMOGONAL; COSMOGONIC; COSMOGONICAL
Cos*mog"o*nal (kz-mg"-nal), Cos`mo*gon"ic (kz`m-gn"k),
Cos`mo*gon"ic*al (-gn"-kal), a.

Defn: Belonging to cosmogony. B. Powell. Gladstone.

COSMOGONIST
Cos*mog"o*nist (kz-mg"-nst), n.

Defn: One who treats of the origin of the universe; one versed in
cosmogony.

COSMOGONY
Cos*mog"o*ny (-n), n.; pl. Cosmogonies (-n. Etym: [Gr. kosmogoni`a;
ko`smos the world + root of gi`gnesthai to be born: cf. F.
cosmogonie.]

Defn: The creation of the world or universe; a theory or account of
such creation; as, the poetical cosmogony of Hesoid; the cosmogonies
of Thales, Anaxagoras, and Plato.
The cosmogony or creation of the world has puzzled philosophers of
all ages. Goldsmith.

COSMOGRAPHER
Cos*mog"ra*pher (-r-fr), n.

Defn: One who describes the world or universe, including the heavens
and the earth.
The name of this island is nowhere found among the old and ancient
cosmographers. Robynson (More's Utopia).

COSMOGRAPHIC; COSMOGRAPHICAL
Cos`mo*graph"ic (kz`m-grf"k), Cos`mo*graph"ic*al (--kal), a. Etym:
[Cf. F. cosmographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to cosmography.

COSMOGRAPHICALLY
Cos`mo*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cosmographic manner; in accordance with cosmography.

COSMOGRAPHY
Cos*mog"ra*phy (kz-mg"r-f), n.; pl. Cosmographies (-f. Etym: [Gr.
cosmographie.]

Defn: A description of the world or of the universe; or the science
which teaches the constitution of the whole system of worlds, or the
figure, disposition, and relation of all its parts.

COSMOLABE
Cos"mo*labe (kz"m-lb), n. Etym: [Gr. cosmolade.]

Defn: An instrument resembling the astrolabe, formerly used for
measuring the angles between heavenly bodies; -- called also
pantacosm.

COSMOLATRY
Cos*mol"a*try (kz-ml"-tr), n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Worship paid to the world. Cudworth.

COSMOLINE
Cos"mo*line (kz"m-ln), n. Etym: [Prob. fr. cosmetic + L. oleum oil.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A substance obtained from the residues of the distillation of
petroleum, essentially the same as vaseline, but of somewhat stiffer
consistency, and consisting of a mixture of the higher paraffines; a
kind of petroleum jelly.

COSMOLOGICAL
Cos`mo*log"ic*al (kz`m-lj"-kal), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cosmology.

COSMOLOGIST
Cos*mol"o*gist (kz-ml"-jst), n.

Defn: One who describes the universe; one skilled in cosmology.

COSMOLOGY
Cos*mol"o*gy (kz-ml"-j), n. Etym: [Gr. ko`smos the world + -logy: cf.
F. cosmologie.]

Defn: The science of the world or universe; or a treatise relating to
the structure and parts of the system of creation, the elements of
bodies, the modifications of material things, the laws of motion, and
the order and course of nature.

COSMOMETRY
Cos*mom"e*try (kz-mm"-tr), n. Etym: [Gr. ko`smos the world + -metry.]

Defn: The art of measuring the world or the universe. Blount.

COSMOPLASTIC
Cos`mo*plas"tic (kz`m-pls"tk), a. Etym: [Gr. ko`smos the world +
pla`ssein to form.]

Defn: Pertaining to a plastic force as operative in the formation of
the world independently of God; world-forming. "Cosmoplastic and
hylozoic atheisms." Gudworth.

COSMOPOLITAN; COSMOPOLITE
Cos`mo*pol"i*tan (-pl"-tan), Cos*mop"o*lite (kz-mp"-lt), n. Etym:
[Gr. cosmopolitain, cosmopolite.]

Defn: One who has no fixed residence, or who is at home in every
place; a citizen of the world.

COSMOPOLITAN; COSMOPOLITE
Cos`mo*pol"i*tan, Cos*mop"o*lite, a.

1. Having no fixed residence; at home in any place; free from local
attachments or prejudices; not provincial; liberal.
In other countries taste is perphaps too exclusively national, in
Germany it is certainly too cosmopolite. Sir W. Hamilton.

2. Common everywhere; widely spread; found in all parts of the world.
The Cheiroptera are cosmopolitan. R. Owen.

COSMOPOLITANISM
Cos`mo*pol"i*tan*ism (kz`m-pl"-tan-z'm), n.

Defn: The quality of being cosmopolitan; cosmopolitism.

COSMOPOLITE
Cos*mop"o*lite (-mp"-lt), a. & n.

Defn: See Cosmopolitan.

COSMOPOLITICAL
Cos`mo*po*lit"ic*al (kz`m-p-lt"-kal), a.

Defn: Having the character of a cosmopolite. [R.] Hackluyt.

COSMOPOLITISM
Cos*mop"o*li*tism (kz-mp"-l-tz'm), n.

Defn: The condition or character of a cosmopolite; disregard of
national or local peculiarities and prejudices.

COSMORAMA
Cos`mo*ra"ma (kz`m-r"m or -r"m), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: An exhibition in which a series of views in various parts of
the world is seen reflected by mirrors through a series of lenses,
with such illumination, etc., as will make the views most closely
represent reality.

COSMORAMIC
Cos`mo*ram"ic (kz`m-rm"k), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cosmorama.

COSMOS
Cos"mos (kz"ms), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ko`smos order, harmony, the
world (from its perfect order and arrangement); akin to Skr. to
distinguish one's self.]

1. The universe or universality of created things; -- so called from
the order and harmony displayed in it.

2. The theory or description of the universe, as a system displaying
order and harmony. Humboldt.

COSMOSPHERE
Cos"mo*sphere (kz"m-sfr), n. Etym: [Gr. sphere.]

Defn: An apparattus for showing the position of the earth, at any
given time, with respect to the fixed stars. It consist of a hollow
glass globe, on which are depicted the stars and constellations, and
within which is a terrestrial globe.

COSMOTHEISM
Cos"mo*the`ism (kz"m-th`z'm), n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Same as Pantheism. [R.]

COSMOTHETIC
Cos`mo*thet"ic (kz`m-tht"k), a. Etym: [Gr. (Metaph.)

Defn: Assuming or positing the actual existence or reality of the
physical or external world. Cosmothetic idealists (Metaph.), those
who assume, without attempting to prove, the reality of external
objects as corresponding to, and being the ground of, the ideas of
which only the mind has direct cognizance.
The cosmothetic idealists . . . deny that mind is immediately
conscious of matter. Sir W. Hamilton.

COSOVEREIGN
Co*sov"er*eign (k-sv"r-n or k-sv"-), n.

Defn: A joint sovereign.

COSS
Coss (ks), n. Etym: [Cf. Pers. k a road measure of about two miles;
or Skr. kr.]

Defn: A Hindoo measure of distance, varying from one and a half to
two English miles. Whitworth.

COSS
Coss, n. Etym: [It. cosa.]

Defn: A thing (only in phrase below). Rule of Coss, an old name for
Algebra. Etym: [It. regola di cosa rule of thing, the unknown
quantity being called the cosa, or the thing.]

COSSACK
Cos"sack (ks"sk), n. Etym: [Russ. kozak', kazak': cf. Turk. kaz.]

Defn: One of a warlike, pastoral people, skillful as horsemen,
inhabiting different parts of the Russian empire and furnishing
valuable contingents of irregular cavalry to its armies, those of
Little Russia and those of the Don forming the principal divisions.

COSSACK POST
Cos"sack post. (Mil.)

Defn: An outpost consisting of four men, forming one of a single line
of posts substituted for the more formal line of sentinels and line
of pickets.

COSSAS
Cos"sas (ks"ss), n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Plain India muslin, of various qualities and widths.

COSSET
Cos"set (ks"st), n. Etym: [Cf. AS. cotsetla cottager, G. kossat,
kothsasse, fr. kot, koth E. (cot) hut, and cf. also E. cade, a., cot
a cade lamb.]

Defn: A lamb reared without the aid of the dam. Hence: A pet, in
general.

COSSET
Cos"set, v. t.

Defn: To treat as a pet; to fondle.
She was cosseted and posseted and prayed over and made much of. O. W.
Holmes.

COSSETTE
Cos*sette", n. [F.]

Defn: One of the small chips or slices into which beets are cut in
sugar making.

COSSIC; COSSICAL
Cos"sic (ks"sk), Cos"sic*al (-s-kal), a. Etym: [It. cossico. See 2d
Coss.]

Defn: Of or relating to algebra; as, cossic numbers, or the cossic
art. [Obs.] "Art of numbers cossical." Digges (1579).

COST
Cost (kst; 115), n. Etym: [L. costa rib. See Coast.]

1. A rib; a side; a region or coast. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
Betwixt the costs of a ship. B. Jonson.

2. (Her.)

Defn: See Cottise.

COST
Cost (kst; 115), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cost; p. pr. & vb. n. Costing.]
Etym: [OF. coster, couster, F. co, fr. L. constare to stand at, to
cost; con- + stare to stand. See Stand, and cf. Constant.]

1. To require to be given, expended, or laid out therefor, as in
barter, purchase, acquisition, etc.; to cause the cost, expenditure,
relinquishment, or loss of; as, the ticket cost a dollar; the effort
cost his life.
A d'amond gone, cost me two thousand ducats. Shak.
Though it cost me ten nights' watchings. Shak.

2. To require to be borne or suffered; to cause.
To do him wanton rites, whichcost them woe. Milton.
To cost dear, to require or occasion a large outlay of money, or much
labor, self-denial, suffering, etc.

COST
Cost, n. Etym: [OF. cost, F. co. See Cost, v. t. ]

1. The amount paid, charged, or engaged to be paid, for anything
bought or taken in barter; charge; expense; hence, whatever, as
labor, self-denial, suffering, etc., is requisite to secure benefitt.
One day shall crown the alliance on 't so please you, Here at my
house, and at my proper cost. Shak.
At less cost of life than is often expended in a skirmish, [Charles
V.] saved Europe from invasion. Prescott.

2. Loss of any kind; detriment; pain; suffering.
I know thy trains, Though dearly to my cost, thy gins and toils.
Milton.

3. pl. (Law)

Defn: Expenses incurred in litigation.

Note: Costs in actions or suits are either between attorney and
client, being what are payable in every case to the attorney or
counsel by his client whether he ultimately succeed or not, or
between party and party, being those which the law gives, or the
court in its discretion decrees, to the prevailing, against the
losing, party. Bill of costs. See under Bill.
 -- Cost free, without outlay or expense. "Her duties being to talk
French, and her privileges to live cost free and to gather scraps of
knowledge." Thackeray.

COSTA
Cos"ta (ks"t), n. Etym: [L., rib. See Coast.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A rib of an animal or a human being.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A rib or vein of a leaf, especially the midrib.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) The anterior rib in the wing of an insect.
(b) One of the riblike longitudinal ridges on the exterior of many
corals.

COSTAGE
Cost"age (kst"j; 115), n. Etym: [OF. coustage.]

Defn: Expense; cost. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COSTAL
Cos"tal (ks"tal), a. Etym: [Cf. F. costal. See Costa.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the ribs or the sides of the body; as, costal
nerves.

2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Relating to a costa, or rib. Costal cartilage. See Cartilage,
and Illust. of Thorax.

COSTAL-NERVED
Cos"tal-nerved` (ks"tal-nrvd`), a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the nerves spring from the midrib.

COSTARD
Cos"tard (ks"trd), n. Etym: [Prob. fr. OF. coste rib, side, F. côte,
and meaning orig., a ribbed apple, from the ribs or angles on its
sides. See Coast.]

1. An apple, large and round like the head.
Some [apples] consist more of air than water . . . ; others more of
water than wind, as your costards and pomewaters. Muffett.

2. The head; -- used contemptuously.
Try whether your costard or my bat be the harder. Shak.

COSTARDMONGER
Cos"tard*mon`ger (-mn`gr), n.

Defn: A costermonger.

COSTATE; COSTATED
Cos"tate (ks"tt), Cos"ta*ted (-t-td), a. Etym: [L. costatus, fr.
costa rib.]

Defn: Having ribs, or the appearance of ribs; (Bot.) having one or
more longitudinal ribs.

COSTEAN
Cos"tean` (ks"tn`), v. i. Etym: [Cornish cothas dropped + stean tin.]

Defn: To search after lodes. See Costeaning.

COSTEANING
Cos"tean`ing, n.

Defn: The process by which miners seek to discover metallic lodes. It
consist in sinking small pits through the superficial deposits to the
solid rock, and then driving from one pit to another across the
direction of the vein, in such manner as to cross all the veins
between the two pits.

COSTELLATE
Cos*tel"late (ks-tl"lt), a. Etym: [L. costa rib.]

Defn: Finely ribbed or costated.

COSTER
Cos"ter (ks"tr), n.Etym: [Abbrev. of costermonger.]

Defn: One who hawks about fruit, green vegetables, fish, etc.

COSTERMONGER
Cos"ter*mon`ger (ks"tr-mn`gr), n. Etym: [See Costard.]

Defn: An apple seller; a hawker of, or dealer in, any kind of fruit
or vegetables; a fruiterer. [Written also costardmonger.]

COSTIFEROUS
Cos*tif"er*ous (ks-tf"r-s), a. Etym: [Costa + -ferous.] (Anat.)

Defn: Rib-bearing, as the dorsal vertebræ.

COSTIVE
Cos"tive (ks"tv), a. Etym: [OF. costev, p. p. of costever, F.
constiper, L. constipare to press closely together, to cram; con- +
stipare to press together, cram. See Stipulate, Stiff, and cf.
Constipate.]

1. Retaining fecal matter in the bowels; having too slow a motion of
the bowels; constipated.

2. Reserved; formal; close; cold. [Obs.] "A costive brain." Prior.
"Costive of laughter." B. Jonson.
You must be frank, but without indiscretion; and close, but without
being costive. Lord Chesterfield.

3. Dry and hard; impermeable; unyielding. [Obs.]
Clay in dry seasons is costive, hardening with the sun and wind.
Mortimer.

COSTIVELY
Cos"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a costive manner.

COSTIVENESS
Cos"tive*ness, n.

1. An unnatural retention of the fecal matter of the bowels;
constipation.

2. Inability to express one's self; stiffness. [Obs.]
A reverend disputant of the same costiveness in public elocution with
myself. Wakefield.

COSTLESS
Cost"less (kst"ls; 115), a.

Defn: Costing nothing.

COSTLEWE
Cost"lewe (-l), a.

Defn: Costly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COSTLINESS
Cost"li*ness (-l-ns), n.

Defn: The quality of being costy; expensiveness; sumptuousness.

COSTLY
Cost"ly (kst"l; 115), a. Etym: [From Cost expense.]

1. Of great cost; expensive; dear.
He had fitted up his palace in the most costly and sumptuous style,
for the accomodation of the princess. Prescott.

2. Gorgeous; sumptuous. [Poetic.]
To show how costly summer was at hand. Shak.

COSTMARY
Cost"ma*ry (kst"m-r), n. Etym: [L. costum an Oriental aromatic plant
(Gr. kost, kust) + Maria Mary. Cf.Alecost.] (Bot.)

Defn: A garden plant (Chrysanthemum Balsamita) having a strong
balsamic smell, and nearly allied to tansy. It is used as a pot herb
and salad plant and in flavoring ale and beer. Called also alecost.

COSTON LIGHTS
Cos"ton lights.

Defn: Signals made by burning lights of different colors and used by
vessels at sea, and in the life-saving service; -- named after their
inventor.

COSTOTOME
Cos"to*tome (ks"t-tm), n. Etym: [Costa + Gr.

Defn: An instrument (chisel or shears) to cut the ribs and open the
thoracic cavity, in post-mortem examinations and dissections. Knight.

COSTREL
Cos"trel (ks"trl), n. Etym: [CF.W. costrel, OF. costrel, LL.
costrellum, a liquid measure, costrellus a wine cup.]

Defn: A bottle of leather, earthenware, or wood, having ears by which
it was suspended at the side. [Archaic]
A youth, that, following with a costrel, bore The means of goodly
welcome, flesh and wine. Tennyson.

COSTUME
Cos"tume` (ks"tm` or ks-tm"), n. Etym: [F. costume, It. costume
custom, dress, fr. L. consuetumen (not found), for consuetudo custom.
See Custom, and cf. Consuetude.]

1. Dress in general; esp., the distinctive style of dress of a
people, class, or period.

2. Such an arrangement of accessories, as in a picture, statue, poem,
or play, as is appropriate to the time, place, or other circumstances
represented or described.
I began last night to read Walter Scott's Lay of the Last Minstrel .
. . .I was extremely delighted with the poetical beauty of some parts
. . . .The costume, too, is admirable. Sir J. Mackintosh.

3. A character dress, used at fancy balls or for dramatic purposes.

COSTUMER
Cos"tum`er (-tm`r), n.

Defn: One who makes or deals in costumes, as for theaters, fancy
balls, etc.

CO-SUFFERER
Co-suf"fer*er (k-sf"fr-r), n.

Defn: One who suffers with another. Wycherley.

COSUPREME
Co`su*preme" (k`s-prm"), n.

Defn: A partaker of supremacy; one jointly supreme. Shak.

COSURETY
Co*sure"ty (k-shr"t; 136), n.; pl. Cosureties (-t.

Defn: One who is surety with another.

COSY
Co"sy (k"z), a.

Defn: See Cozy.

COT
Cot (kt), n. Etym: [OE. cot, cote, AS. cot, cote, cottage; akin to D.
& Icel. kot, G. koth, kot, kothe. Cf. Coat.]

1. A small house; a cottage or hut.
The sheltered cot, the cultivated farm. Goldsmith.

2. A pen, coop, or like shelter for small domestic animals, as for
sheep or pigeons; a cote.

3. A cover or sheath; as, a roller cot (the clothing of a drawing
roller in a spinning frame); a cot for a sore finger.

4. Etym: [Cf. Ir. cot.]

Defn: A small, rudely-formed boat. Bell cot. (Arch.) See under Bell.

COT
Cot (kt), n. Etym: [AS. cot cottage, bedchamber; or cf. OF. coite, F.
couette (E. quilt), LL. cottum, cottus, mattress. See Cot a cottage.]

Defn: A sleeping place of limited size; a little bed; a cradle; a
piece of canvas extended by a frame, used as a bed. [Written also
cott.]

COTANGENT
Co*tan"gent (k-tn"jent), n. Etym: [For co. tangens, an abbrev. of L.
complementi tangens. See Tangent.] (Trig.)

Defn: The tangent of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust.
of Functions.

COTARNINE
Co*tar"nine (k-tr"nn or -nn), n. Etym: [F., fr. narcotine, by
transposition of letters.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline substance, C12H13NO3, obtained as a
product of the decomposition of narcotine. It has weak basic
properties, and is usually regarded as an alkaloid.

COTE
Cote (kt), n. Etym: [See 1st Cot.]

1. A cottage or hut. [Obs.]

2. A shed, shelter, or inclosure for small domestic animals, as for
sheep or doves.
Watching where shepherds pen their flocks, at eve, In hurdled cotes.
Milton.

COTE
Cote, v. t. Etym: [Prob. from F. c sode, OF. costet, LL. costatus,
costatum, fr. L. costu rib, side: cf. F. c to go or keep at the side
of. See Coast.]

Defn: To go side by side with; hence, to pass by; to outrun and get
before; as, a dog cotes a hare. [Obs.] Drayton.
We coted them on the way, and hither are they coming. Shak.

COTE
Cote, v. t. Etym: [See Quote.]

Defn: To quote. [Obs.] Udall.

COTEAU
Co`teau", n.; pl. Coteaux (#). [F., a hill.] [Canada & U. S.]

1. A hilly upland including the divide between two valleys; a divide.

2.  The side of a valley.

COTEMPORANEOUS
Co*tem`po*ra"ne*ous (k-tm`p-r"n-s), a. Etym: [See Contemporaneous.]

Defn: Living or being at the same time; contemporaneous.
 -- Co*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Co*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ness, n.

COTEMPORARY
Co*tem"po*ra*ry (k-tm"p-r-r), a.

Defn: Living or being at the same time; contemporary.

COTEMPORARY
Co*tem"po*ra*ry, n.; pl. Cotemporaries (-r.

Defn: One who lives at the same time with another; a contemporary.

COTENANT
Co*ten"ant (k-tn"ant), n.

Defn: A tenant in common, or a joint tenant.

COTERIE
Co`te*rie" (k`Te-r"; 277), n. Etym: [F., prob. from OF. coterie
servile tenure, fr. colier cotter; of German origin. See 1st Cot.]

Defn: A set or circle of persons who meet familiarly, as for social,
literary, or other purposes; a clique. "The queen of your coterie."
Thackeray.

COTERMINOUS
Co*ter"mi*nous (k-tr"m-ns), a. Etym: [Cf. Conterminous.]

Defn: Bordering; conterminous; -- followed by with.

COTGARE
Cot"gare` (kt"gr`), n.

Defn: Refuse wool. [Obs. or Prov.]

COTHURN
Co"thurn (k"thrn), n. Etym: [L. cothurnus, Gr. Cothurnus.]

Defn: A buskin anciently used by tragic actors on the stage; hence,
tragedy in general.
The moment had arrived when it was thought that the mask and the
cothurn might be assumed with effect. Motley.

COTHURNATE; COTHURNATED
Co*thur"nate (k-thr"nt), Co*thur"na*ted (-n-td), a.

1. Wearing a cothurn.

2. Relating to tragedy; solemn; grave.

COTHURNUS
Co*thur"nus (-ns), n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Same as Cothurn.

COTICULAR
Co*tic"u*lar (k-tk"-lr), a. Etym: [L. coticula a small touchstone,
dim. cos, cotis, whetstone.]

Defn: Pertaining to whetstones; like or suitable for whetstones.

COTIDAL
Co*tid"al (k-td"al), a.

Defn: Marking an equality in the tides; having high tide at the same
time. Cotidal lines (Phys. Geog.), lines on a map passing through
places that have high tide at the same time.

COTILLON; COTILLION
Co`til`lon" (k`t`yn" or k`tl`-;277), Co*til"lion (k-tl"yn), n. Etym:
[F. cotillon, fr. OF. cote coat, LL. cotta tunic. See Coat.]

1. A brisk dance, performed by eight persons; a quadrille.

2. A tune which regulates the dance.

3. A kind of woolen material for women's skrits.

COTINGA
Co*tin"ga (k-tn"g), n. Etym: [Native South American name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of the family Cotingidæ, including numerous bright-
colored South American species; -- called also chatterers.

COTISE
Cot"ise (kt"s), n. (Her.)

Defn: See Cottise.

COTISED
Cot"ised (-st), a. (Her.)

Defn: See Cottised.

COTLAND
Cot"land (kt"lnd), n.

Defn: Land appendant to a cot or cottage, or held by a cottager or
cotter.

COTQUEAN
Cot"quean` (kt"kwn`), n. Etym: [Cot a cottage + quean.]

1. A man who busies himself with affairs which properly belong to
women. Addison.

2. A she-cuckold; a cucquean; a henhussy. [Obs.]
What, shall a husband be afraid of his wife's face We are a king,
cotquean, and we will reign in our pleasures. B. Jonson.

COTQUEANITY
Cot*quean"i*ty (kt-kwn"-t), n.

Defn: The condition, character, or conduct of a cotquean. [Obs.] B.
Jonson.

COTRUSTEE
Co`trus*tee" (k`trs-t"), n.

Defn: A joint trustee.

COTSWOLD
Cots"wold` (kts"wld`), n. Etym: [Cot a cottage or hut + wold an open
country.]

Defn: An open country abounding in sheepcotes, as in the Cotswold
hills, in Gloucestershire, England. Cotswold sheep, a long-wooled
breed of sheep, formerly common in the counties of Gloucester,
Hereford, and Worcester, Eng.; -- so called from the Cotswold Hills.
The breed is now chiefly amalgamated with others.

COTTA
Cot"ta, n. [LL. See Coat.]

1.  (Eccl.)

Defn: A surplice, in England and America usually one shorter and less
full than the ordinary surplice and with short sleeves, or sometimes
none.

2.  A kind of very coarse woolen blanket.

COTTAGE
Cot"tage (kt"tj; 48), n. Etym: [From Cot a cotttage.]

Defn: A small house; a cot; a hut.

Note: The term was formerly limited to a habitation for the poor, but
is now applied to any small tasteful dwelling; and at places of
summer resort, to any residence or lodging house of rustic
architecture, irrespective of size. Cottage allotment. See under
Alloment. [Eng.] -- Cottage cheese, the thick part of clabbered milk
strained, salted, and pressed into a ball.

COTTAGED
Cot"taged (-tjd), a.

Defn: Set or covered with cottages.
Even humble Harting's cottaged vale. Collins.

COTTAGELY
Cot"tage*ly (-tj-l), a.

Defn: Cottagelike; suitable for a cottage; rustic. [Obs.] Jer.
Taylor.

COTTAGER
Cot"ta*ger (kt"t-jr), n.

1. One who lives in a cottage.

2. (Law)

Defn: One who lives on the common, without paying any rent, or having
land of his own.

COTTER; COTTAR
Cot"ter, Cot"tar (kt"tr), n. Etym: [LL. cotarius, cottarius,
coterius. See Cot.]

Defn: A cottager; a cottier. Burns.
Through Sandwich Notch the West Wind sang Good morrow to the cotter.
Whittier.

COTTER
Cot"ter (kt"tr), n.

1. A piece of wood or metal, commonly wedge-shaped, used for
fastening together parts of a machine or structure. It is driven into
an opening through one or all of the parts.

Note: [See Illust.] In the United States a cotter is commonly called
a key.

2. A toggle.

COTTER
Cot"ter, v. t.

Defn: To fasten with a cotter.

COTTIER
Cot"ti*er (-t-r), n. Etym: [OF. cotier. See Coterie, and cf. Cotter.]

Defn: In Great Britain and Ireland, a person who hires a small
cottage, with or without a plot of land. Cottiers commonly aid in the
work of the landlord's farm. [Written also cottar and cotter.]

COTTISE
Cot"tise (kt"ts), n. Etym: [Cf. F. c side, L. costa rib.] (Her.)

Defn: A diminutive of the bendlet, containing one half its area or
one quarter the area of the bend. When a single cottise is used alone
it is often called a cost. See also Couple-close.

COTTISED
Cot"tised (-tst), a. (Her.)

Defn: Set between two cottises, -- said of a bend; or between two
barrulets, -- said of a bar or fess.

COTTOID
Cot"toid (kt"toid), a. Etym: [NL. cottus sculpin + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like a fish of the genus Cottus.
 -- n.

Defn: A fish belonging to, or resembling, the genus Cottus. See
Sculpin.

COTTOLENE
Cot"to*lene`, n.

Defn: A product from cottonseed, used as lard.

COTTON
Cot"ton (kt"t'n), n. Etym: [F. coton, Sp. algodon the cotton plant
and its wool, coton printed cotton, cloth, fr. Ar. qutun, alqutun,
cotton wool. Cf. Acton, Hacqueton.]

1. A soft, downy substance, resembling fine wool, consisting of the
unicellular twisted hairs which grow on the seeds of the cotton
plant. Long-staple cotton has a fiber sometimes almost two inches
long; short-staple, from two thirds of an inch to an inch and a half.

2. The cotton plant. See Cotten plant, below.

3. Cloth made of cotton.

Note: Cotton is used as an adjective before many nouns in a sense
which commonly needs no explanation; as, cottton bagging; cotton
clotch; cotton goods; cotton industry; cotton mill; cotton spinning;
cotton tick. Cotton cambric. See Cambric, n., 2.
 -- Cotton flannel, the manufactures' name for a heavy cotton fabric,
twilled, and with a long plush nap. In England it is called swan's-
down cotton, or Canton flannel.
 -- Cotton gin, a machine to separate the seeds from cotton, invented
by Eli Whitney.
 -- Cotton grass (Bot.), a genus of plants (Eriphorum) of the Sedge
family, having delicate capillary bristles surrounding the fruit
(seedlike achenia), which elongate at maturity and resemble tufts of
cotton.
 -- Cotton mouse (Zool.), a field mouse (Hesperomys gossypinus),
injurious to cotton crops.
 -- Cotton plant (Bot.), a plant of the genus Gossypium, of several
species, all growing in warm climates, and bearing the cotton of
commerce. The common species, originally Asiatic, is G. herbaceum.
 -- Cotton press, a building and machinery in which cotton bales are
compressed into smaller bulk for shipment; a press for baling cotton.
 -- Cotton rose (Bot.), a genus of composite herbs (Filago), covered
with a white substance resembling cotton.
 -- Cotton scale (Zoöl.), a species of bark louse (Pulvinaria
innumerabilis), which does great damage to the cotton plant.
 -- Cotton shrub. Same as Cotton plant.
 -- Cotton stainer (Zoöl.), a species of hemipterous insect
(Dysdercus suturellus), which seriously damages growing cotton by
staining it; -- called also redbug.
 -- Cotton thistle (Bot.), the Scotch thistle. See under Thistle.
 -- Cotton velvet, velvet in which the warp and woof are both of
cotton, and the pile is of silk; also, velvet made wholly of cotton.
 -- Cotton waste, the refuse of cotton mills.
 -- Cotton wool, cotton in its raw or woolly state.
 -- Cotton worm (Zool.), a lepidopterous insect (Aletia argillacea),
which in the larval state does great damage to the cotton plant by
eating the leaves. It also feeds on corn, etc., and hence is often
called corn worm, and Southern army worm.

COTTON
Cot"ton, v. i.

1. To rise with a regular nap, as cloth does. [Obs.]
It cottons well; it can not choose but bear A pretty nap. Family of
Love.

2. To go on prosperously; to succeed. [Obs.]
New, Hephestion, does not this matter cotton as I would Lyly.

3. To unite; to agree; to make friends; -- usually followed by with.
[Colloq.]
A quarrel will end in one of you being turned off, in which case it
will not be easy to cotton with another. Swift.
Didst see, Frank, how the old goldsmith cottoned in with his beggarly
companion Sir W. Scott.

4. To take a liking to; to stick to one as cotton; -- used with to.
[Slang]

COTTONADE
Cot"ton*ade` (kt"t'n-d`), n. Etym: [F. cottonade.]

Defn: A somewhat stoun and thick fabric of cotton.

COTTONARY
Cot"ton*a*ry (--r), a.

Defn: Relating to, or composed of, cotton; cottony. [Obs.]
Cottomary and woolly pillows. Sir T. Browne.

COTTON BATTING
Cot"ton bat"ting.

Defn: Cotton prepared in sheets or rolls for quilting, upholstering,
and similar purposes.

COTTONOUS
Cot"ton*ous (-s), a.

Defn: Resembling cotton. [R.] Evelyn.

COTTON SEED; COTTONSEED
Cotton seed, or, usually collectively, Cot"ton*seed`, n.

Defn: The seed of the cotton plant.

COTTONSEED MEAL
Cottonseed meal.

Defn: A meal made from hulled cotton seeds after the oil has been
expressed.

COTTONSEED OIL
Cottonseed oil.

Defn: A fixed, semidrying oil extracted from cottonseed. It is pale
yellow when pure (sp. gr., .92-.93). and is extensively used in soap
making, in cookery, and as an adulterant of other oils.

COTTON STATE
Cotton State.

Defn: Alabama; -- a nickname.

COTTONTAIL
Cot"ton*tail` (kt"t'n-tl`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American wood rabbit (Lepus sylvaticus); -- also called
Molly cottontail.

COTTONWEED
Cot"ton*weed` (-wd`), n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Cudweed.

COTTONWOOD
Cot"ton*wood` (-wd`), n. (Bot.)

Defn: An American tree of the genus Populus or polar, having the
seeds covered with abundant cottonlike hairs; esp., the P. monilifera
and P. angustifolia of the Western United States.

COTTONY
Cot"ton*y (-), a.

1. Covered with hairs or pubescence, like cotton; downy; nappy;
woolly.

2. Of or pertaining to cotton; resembling cotton in appearance or
character; soft, like cotton.

COTTREL
Cot"trel (kt"trl), n.

Defn: A trammel, or hook to support a pot over a fire. Knight.

COTYLA; COTYLE
Cot"y*la (kt"-l), Cot"y*le (kt"-l), n. Etym: [Gr. cotyla a measure.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A cuplike cavity or organ. Same as Acetabulum.

COTYLEDON
Cot`y*le"don (kt`-l"dn), n. Etym: [Gr.Cotyle.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the patches of villi found in some forms of placenta.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A leaf borne by the caulicle or radicle of an embryo; a seed
leaf.

Note: Many plants, as the bean and the maple, have two cotyledons,
the grasses only one, and pines have several. In one African plant
(Welwitschia) the cotyledons are permanent and grow to immense
proportions.

COTYLEDONAL
Cot`y*led"on*al (kt`-ld"n-al), a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cotyledon.

COTYLEDONARY
Cot`y*led"on*a*ry (--r), a.

Defn: Having a cotyledon; tufted; as, the cotyledonary placenta of
the cow.

COTYLEDONOUS
Cot`y*led"on*ous (-s; 277), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cotyledon or cotyledons; having a seed
lobe.

COTYLIFORM
Co*tyl"i*form (k-tl"-frm), a. Etym: [Cotyle + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Shaped like a cotyle or a cup.

COTYLIGEROUS
Cot`y*lig"er*ous (kt`-lj"r-s), a. Etym: [Cotyle + -gerous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having cotyles.

COTYLOID
Cot"y*loid (kt"-loid), a. Etym: [Cotyle + -oid] (Anat.)
(a) Shaped like a cup; as, the cotyloid cavity, which receives the
head of the thigh bone.
(b) Pertaining to a cotyloid cavity; as, the cotyloid ligament, or
notch.

COUCAL
Cou"cal (k"kl), n. Etym: [Prob. native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, Old World, ground cuckoo of the genus Centropus, of
several species.

COUCH
Couch (kouch), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Couched (koucht); p. pr. & vb. n.
Couching.] Etym: [F. coucher to lay down, lie down, OF. colchier, fr.
L. collocare to lay, put, place; col- + locare to place, fr. locus
place. See Locus.]

1. To lay upon a bed or other resting place.
Where unbruised youth, with unstuffed brain, Does couch his limbs,
there golden sleep doth reign. Shak.

2. To arrauge or dispose as in a bed; -- sometimes followed by the
reflexive pronoun.
The waters couch themselves as may be to the center of this globe, in
a spherical convexity. T. Burnet.

3. To lay or deposit in a bed or layer; to bed.
It is at this day in use at Gaza, to couch potsherds, or vessels of
earth, in their walls. Bacon.

4. (Paper Making)

Defn: To transfer (as sheets of partly dried pulp) from the wire
clotch mold to a felt blanket, for further drying.

5. To conceal; to include or involve darkly.
There is all this, and more, that lies naturally couched under this
allegory. L'Estrange.

6. To arrange; to place; to inlay. [Obs.] Chaucer.

7. To put into some form of language; to express; to phrase; -- used
with in and under.
A well-couched invective. Milton.
I had received a letter from Flora couched in rather cool terms.
Blackw. Mag.

8. (Med.)

Defn: To treat by pushing down or displacing the opaque lens with a
needle; as, to couch a cataract. To couch a spear or lance, to lower
to the position of attack; to place in rest.
He stooped his head, and couched his spear, And spurred his steed to
full career. Sir W. Scott.
To couch malt, to spread malt on a floor. Mortimer.

COUCH
Couch, v. i.

1. To lie down or recline, as on a bed or other place of rest; to
repose; to lie.
Where souls do couch on flowers, we 'll hand in hand. Shak.
If I court moe women, you 'll couch with moe men. Shak.

2. To lie down for concealment; to hide; to be concealed; to be
included or involved darkly.
We 'll couch in the castle ditch, till we see the light of our
fairies. Shak.
The half-hidden, hallf-revealed wonders, that yet couch beneath the
words of the Scripture. I. Taylor.

3. To bend the body, as in reverence, pain, labor, etc.; to stoop; to
crouch. [Obs.]
An aged squire That seemed to couch under his shield three-square.
Spenser.

COUCH
Couch, n. Etym: [F. couche, OF. colche, culche, fr. colchier. See
Couch, v. t. ]

1. A bed or place for repose or sleep; particularly, in the United
States, a lounge.
Gentle sleep . . . why liest thou with the vile In loathsome beds,
and leavest the kingly couch Shak.
Like one that wraps the drapery of his couch About him, and lies down
to pleasant dreams. Bryant.

2. Any place for repose, as the lair of a beast, etc.

3. A mass of steeped barley spread upon a floor to germinate, in
malting; or the floor occupied by the barley; as, couch of malt.

4. (Painting & Gilding)

Defn: A preliminary layer, as of color, size, etc.

COUCHANCY
Couch"an*cy (kouch"an-s), n.

Defn: State of lying down for repose. [R.]

COUCHANT
Couch"ant (kouch"ant), a. Etym: [F., p. pr. of coucher. See Couch, v.
t.]

1. Lying down with head erect; squatting.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Lying down with the head raised, which distinguishes the
posture of couchant from that of dormant, or sleeping; -- said of a
lion or other beast. Couchant and levant (Law), rising up and lying
down; -- said of beasts, and indicating that they have been long
enough on land, not belonging to their owner, to lie down and rise up
to feed, -- such time being held to include a day and night at the
least. Blackstone.

COUCHE
Cou`ché" (k`sh"), a. Etym: [F., p. p. of coucher. See Couch, v. t. ]
(Her.)
(a) Not erect; inclined; -- said of anything that is usually erect,
as an escutcheon.
(b) Lying on its side; thus, a chevron couché is one which emerges
from one side of the escutcheon and has its apex on the opposite
side, or at the fess point.

COUCHED
Couched (koucht), a. (Her.)

Defn: Same as Couch.

COUCHEE
Cou"chee (k"sh; F. k"sh"), n. Etym: [F. couch a sleeping place from
coucher. See Couch, v. t. ]

Defn: A reception held at the time of going to bed, as by a sovereign
or great prince. [Obs.] Dryden.
The duke's levees and couchees were so crowded that the antechambers
were full. Bp. Burnet.

COUCHER
Couch"er (kouch"r), n.

1. One who couches.

2. (Paper Manuf.)

Defn: One who couches paper.

3. Etym: [Cf. L. collectarius.] (O. Eng. Law)
(a) A factor or agent resident in a country for traffic. Blount. (b)
The book in which a corporation or other body registers its
particular acts. [Obs.] Cowell.

COUCH GRASS
Couch" grass` (grs`). (Bot.)

Defn: See Quitch grass.

COUCHING
Couch"ing, n.

1. (Med.)

Defn: The operation of putting down or displacing the opaque lens in
cataract.

2. Embroidering by laying the materials upon the surface of the
foundation, instead of drawing them through.

COUCHLESS
Couch"less (kouch"ls), a.

Defn: Having no couch or bed.

COUDEE
Cou"dee (k"d; F. k`d"), n. Etym: [F. coud, from coude elbow.]

Defn: A measure of length; the distance from the elbow to the end of
the middle finger; a cubit.

COUGAR
Cou"gar (k"gr), n. Etym: [F. couguar, from the native name in the
South American dialects, cuguacuara, cuguacuarana.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American feline quadruped (Felis concolor), resembling the
African panther in size and habits. Its color is tawny, without
spots; hence writers often called it the American lion. Called also
puma, panther, mountain lion, and catamount. See Puma.

COUGH
Cough (kf), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Coughed (kft); p. pr. & vb. n.
Coughing.] Etym: [Cf. D. kuchen, MHG. k to breathe, G. keuchen to
pant, and E. chincough, the first part of which is prob. akin to
cough; cf. also E. choke.]

Defn: To expel air, or obstructing or irritating matter, from the
lungs or air passages, in a noisy and violent manner.

COUGH
Cough, v. t.

1. To expel from the lungs or air passages by coughing; -- followed
by up; as, to cough up phlegm.

2. To bring to a specified state by coughing; as, he coughed himself
hoarse. To cough down, to silence or put down (an objectionable
speaker) by simulated coughing.

COUGH
Cough, n. Etym: [Cg. D. kuch. See Cough, v. i. ]

1. A sudden, noisy, and violent expulsion of air from the chest,
caused by irritation in the air passages, or by the reflex action of
nervous or gastric disorder, etc.

2. The more or less frequent repetition of coughing, constituting a
symptom of disease. Stomach cough, Ear cough, cough due to irritation
in the stomach or ear.

COUGHER
Cough"er (kf"r), n.

Defn: One who coughs.

COUHAGE
Cou"hage (kou"j), n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Cowhage.

COULD
Could (kd), imp. of Can. Etym: [OF. coude. The l was inserted by
mistake, under the influence of should and would.]

Defn: Was, should be, or would be, able, capable, or susceptible.
Used as an auxiliary, in the past tense or in the conditional
present.

COULEE
Cou`lee" (k`l"), n. Etym: [F. coulée, fr. couler to run or flow.]

Defn: A stream; (Geol.)

Defn: a stream of lava. Also, in the Western United States, the bed
of a stream, even if dry, when deep and having inclined sides;
distinguished from a cañon, which has precipitous sides.

COULEUR
Cou`leur", n. [F.]

1. Color; -- chiefly used in a few French phrases, as couler de rose,
color of rose; and hence, adjectively, rose-colored; roseate.

2.  A suit of cards, as hearts or clubs; --used in some French games.

COULISSE
Cou*lisse" (k-ls"; F. k`ls"), n. Etym: [F., fr. couler to flow,
glide.]

1. A piece of timber having a groove in which something glides.

2. One of the side scenes of the stage in a theater, or the space
included between the side scenes.

COULOIR
Cou`loir" (k`lwr"), n. Etym: [F., a strainer.]

1. A deep gorge; a gully.

2. (Hydraul. Engin.)

Defn: A dredging machine for excavating canals, etc.

COULOMB
Cou`lomb" (k`ln"), n. Etym: [From Coulomb, a French physicist and
electrican.] (Physics)

Defn: The standard unit of quantity in electrical measurements. It is
the quantity of electricity conveyed in one second by the current
produced by an electro-motive force of one volt acting in a circuit
having a resistance of one ohm, or the quantitty transferred by one
ampère in one second. Formerly called weber.

COULOMB METER
Cou`lomb" me"ter. (Elec.)

Defn: Any instrument by which electricity can be measured in
coulombs.

COULOMB'S LAW
Cou`lomb's" law. (Physics)

Defn: The law that the force exerted between two electric or magnetic
charges is directly proportional to the product of the charges and
inversely to the square of the distance between them.

COULTER
Coul"ter (kl"tr), n.

Defn: Same as Colter.

COULTERNEB
Coul"ter*neb` (-nb`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The puffin.

COULURE
Cou*lure", n. [F., prop., a dropping.] (Hort.)

Defn: A disease affecting grapes, esp. in California, manifested by
the premature dropping of the fruit.

COUMARIC
Cou*mar"ic (k-mr"k), a.

Defn: Relating to, derived from, or like, the Dipterix odorata, a
tree of Guiana. Coumaric acid (Chem.), one of a series of aromatic
acids, related to cinnamic acid, the most important of which is a
white crystalline substance, HO.C6H4.C2H2.CO2H, obtained from the
tonka bean, sweet clover, etc., and also produced artifically.

COUMARIN
Cou"ma*rin (k"m-rn), n. Etym: [F., fr. coumarou, a tree of Guiana.]
(Chem.)

Defn: The concrete essence of the tonka bean, the fruit of Dipterix
(formerly Coumarouna) odorata and consisting essentially of coumarin
proper, which is a white crystalline substance, C9H6O2, of vanilla-
like odor, regarded as an anhydride of coumaric acid, and used in
flavoring. Coumarin in also made artificially.

COUMAROU
Cou"ma*rou, n. [See Coumarin.] (Bot.)

Defn: The tree (Dipteryx odorata) which bears the tonka bean; also,
the bean itself.

COUNCIL
Coun"cil (koun"sl), n. Etym: [F. concile, fr. L. concilium; con- +
calare to call, akin to Gr. hale, v., haul. Cf. Conciliate. This word
is often confounded with counsel, with which it has no connection.]

1. An assembly of men summoned or convened for consultation,
deliberation, or advice; as, a council of physicians for consultation
in a critical case.

2. A body of man elected or appointed to constitute an advisory or a
legislative assembly; as, a governor's council; a city council.
An old lord of the council rated me the other day. Shak.

3. Act of deliberating; deliberation; consultation.
Satan . . . void of rest, His potentates to council called by night.
Milton.
O great in action and in council wise. Pope.
Aulic council. See under Aulic.
 -- Cabinet council. See under Cabinet.
 -- City council, the legislative branch of a city government,
usually consisting of a board of aldermen and common council, but
sometimes otherwise constituted.
 -- Common council. See under Common.
 -- Council board, Council table, the table round which a council
holds consultation; also, the council itself in deliberation.
 -- Council chamber, the room or apartment in which a council meets.
 -- Council fire, the ceremonial fire kept burning while the Indians
hold their councils. [U.S.] Barilett.
 -- Council of war, an assembly of officers of high rank, called to
consult with the commander in chief in regard to measures or
importance or nesessity.
 -- Ecumenical council (Eccl.), an assembly of prelates or divines
convened from the whole body of the church to regulate matters of
doctrine or discipline.
 -- Executive council, a body of men elected as advisers of the chief
magistrate, whether of a State or the nation. [U.S.] -- Legislative
council, the upper house of a legislature, usually called the senate.
 -- Privy council. See under Privy. [Eng.]

Syn.
 -- Assembly; meeting; congress; diet; parliament; convention;
convocation; synod.

COUNCILIST
Coun"cil*ist (koun"sl-st), n.

Defn: One who belong to a council; one who gives an opinion. [Obs.]
I will in three months be an expert counsilist. Milton.

COUNCILMAN
Coun"cil*man (koun`sl-man), n.; pl. Councilmen (-men).

Defn: A member of a council, especially of the common council of a
city; a councilor.

COUNCILOR
Coun"cil*or (koun"sl-r), n.

Defn: A member of a council. [Written also councillor.]

Note: The distinction between councilor, a member of a council, and
counselor, one who gives councel, was not formerly made, but is now
very generally recognized and observed.

CO-UNE
Co`-une" (k`n"), v. t. Etym: [L. co- + unus one.]

Defn: To combine or unite. [Obs.] "Co-uned together." Feltham.

CO-UNITE
Co`-u*nite" (k`-nt"), v. t.

Defn: To unite. [Obs.]

CO-UNITE
Co`-u*nite", a.

Defn: United closely with another. [Obs.]

COUNSEL
Coun"sel (koun"sl), n. Etym: [OE. conc, F. conseil, fr. L. consilium,
fr. the root of consulere to consult, of uncertain origin. Cf.
Consult, Consul.]

1. Interchange of opinions; mutual advising; consultation.
All the chief priest and elders of the people took counsel against
Jesus, to put him to death. Matt. xxvii. 1.

2. Examination of consequences; exercise of deliberate judgment;
prudence.
They all confess, therefore, in the working of that first cause, that
counsel is used. Hooker.

3. Result of consultation; advice; instruction.
I like thy counsel; well hast thou advised. Shak.
It was ill counsel had misled the girl. Tennyson.

4. Deliberate purpose; design; intent; scheme; plan.
The counsel of the Lord standeth forever. Ps. xxxiii. 11.
The counsels of the wicked are deceit. Prov. xii. 5.

5. A secret opinion or purpose; a private matter.
Thilke lord . . . to whom no counsel may be hid. Gower.

6. One who gives advice, especially in legal matters; one
professionally engaged in the trial or management of a cause in
court; also, collectively, the legal advocates united in the
management of a case; as, the defendant has able counsel.
The King found his counsel as refractory as his judges. Macaulay.

Note: The some courts a distinction is observed between the attorney
and the counsel in a cause, the former being employed in the
management iof the more mechanical parts of the suit, the latter in
attending to the pleadings, managing the cause at the trial, and in
applying the law to the exigencies of the case during the whole
progress of the suit. In other courts the same person can exercise
the powers of each. See Attorney. Kent. In counsel, in secret. [Obs.]
Chaucer.
 -- To keep counsel, or To keep one's own counsel, to keep one's
thoughts, purposes, etc., undisclosed.
The players can not keep counsel: they 'll tell all. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Advice; consideration; consultation; purpose; scheme; opinion.

COUNSEL
Coun"sel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Counseled (-sld) or Counselled; p. pr.
& vb. n. Counseling or Counselling.] Etym: [OE. conseilen,
counseilen, F. conseiller, fr. L. consiliari, fr. consilium counsel.]

1. To give advice to; to advice, admonish, or instruct, as a person.
Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you To leave this place. Shak.

2. To advise or recommend, as an act or course.
They who counsel war. Milton.
Thus Belial, with words clothed in reson's garb, Counseled ignoble
ease and peaceful sloth. Milton.

COUNSELABLE
Coun"sel*a*ble (--b'l), a. Etym: [Written also counsellable.]

1. Willing to receive counsel or follow advice. [R.]
Few men of so great parts were upon all occasions more counselable
than he. Clarendon.

2. Suitable to be advised; advisable, wise. [Obs.]
He did not believe it counselable. Clarendon.

COUNSELOR
Coun"sel*or (koun"sl-r), n. [Written also counsellor.] Etym: [OE.
conseiler, F. conseiller, fr. L. consiliarius, fr. consilium
counsel.]

1. One who counsels; an adviser.
Can he that speaks with the tongue of an enemy be a good counselor,
or no Shak.

2. A member of council; one appointed to advise a sovereign or chief
magistrate.

Note: [See under Consilor.]

3. One whose profession is to give advice in law, and manage causes
for clients in court; a barrister.
Good counselors lack no clients. Shak.

COUNSELORSHIP
Coun"sel*or*ship (koun"sl-r-shp), n.

Defn: The function and rank or office of a counselor. Bacon.

COUNT
Count (kount), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Counted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Counting.] Etym: [OF. conter, and later (etymological spelling)
compter, in modern French thus distinguished; conter to relate (cf.
Recount, Account), compter to count; fr. L. computuare to reckon,
compute; com- + putare to reckon, settle, order, prune, orig., to
clean. See Pure, and cf. Compute.]

1. To tell or name one by one, or by groups, for the purpose of
ascertaining the whole number of units in a collection; to number; to
enumerate; to compute; to reckon.
Who can count the dust of Jacob Num. xxiii. 10.
In a journey of forty miles, Avaux counted only three miserable
cabins. Macaulay.

2. To place to an account; to ascribe or impute; to consider or
esteem as belonging.
Abracham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness.
Rom. iv. 3.

3. To esteem; to account; to reckon; to think, judge, or consider.
I count myself in nothing else so happy As in a soul remembering my
good friends. Shak.
To count out. (a) To exclude (one) will not particapate or cannot be
depended upon. (b) (House of Commons) To declare adjourned, as a
sitting of the House, when it is ascertained that a quorum is not
present. (c) To prevent the accession of (a person) to office, by a
fraudulent return or count of the votes cast; -- said of a candidate
really elected. [Colloq.]

Syn.
 -- To calculate; number; reckon; compute; enumerate. See Calculate.

COUNT
Count, v. i.

1. To number or be counted; to possess value or carry weight; hence,
to increase or add to the strength or influence of some party or
interest; as, every vote counts; accidents count for nothing.
This excellent man . . . counted among the best and wisest of English
statesmen. J. A. Symonds.

2. To reckon; to rely; to depend; -- with on or upon.
He was brewer to the palace; and it was apprehended that the
government counted on his voice. Macaulay.
I think it a great error to count upon the genius of a nation as a
standing argument in all ages. Swift.

3. To take account or note; -- with of. [Obs.] "No man counts of her
beauty." Shak.

4. (Eng. Law)

Defn: To plead orally; to argue a matter in court; to recite a count.
Burrill.

COUNT
Count, n. Etym: [F. conte and compte, with different meanings, fr. L.
computus a computation, fr. computare. See Count, v. t.]

1. The act of numbering; reckoning; also, the number ascertained by
counting.
Of blessed saints for to increase the count. Spenser.
By this count, I shall be much in years. Shak.

2. An object of interest or account; value; estimation. [Obs.] "All
his care and count." Spenser.

3. (Law)

Defn: A formal statement of the plaintiff's case in court; in a more
technical and correct sense, a particular allegation or charge in a
declaration or indictment, separately setting forth the cause of
action or prosecution. Wharton.

Note: In the old law books, count was used synonymously with
declaration. When the plaintiff has but a single cause of action, and
makes but one statement of it, that statement is called indifferently
count or declaration, most generally, however, the latter. But where
the suit embraces several causes, or the plaintiff makes several
different statements of the same cause of action, each statement is
called a count, and all of them combined, a declaration. Bouvier.
Wharton.

COUNT
Count, n. Etym: [F. conte, fr. L. comes, comitis, associate,
companion, one of the imperial court or train, properly, one who goes
with another; com- + ire to go, akin to Skr. i to go.]

Defn: A nobleman on the continent of Europe, equal in rank to an
English earl.

Note: Though the tittle Count has never been introduced into Britain,
the wives of Earls have, from the earliest period of its history,
been designated as Countesses. Brande & C. Count palatine. (a)
Formerly, the proprietor of a county who possessed royal prerogatives
within his county, as did the Earl of Chester, the Bishop of Durham,
and the Duke of Lancaster. [Eng.] See County palatine, under County.
(b) Originally, a high judicial officer of the German emperors;
afterward, the holder of a fief, to whom was granted the right to
exercise certain imperial powers within his own domains. [Germany]

COUNTABLE
Count"a*ble (--b'l), a.

Defn: Capable of being numbered.

COUNTENANCE
Coun"te*nance (koun"t-nans), n. Etym: [OE. contenance, countenaunce,
demeanor, composure, F. contenance demeanor, fr. L. continentia
continence, LL. also, demeanor, fr. L. continere to hold together,
repress, contain. See Contain, and cf. Continence.]

1. Appearance or expression of the face; look; aspect; mien.
So spake the Son, and into terror changed His countenance. Milton.

2. The face; the features.
In countenance somewhat doth resemble you. Shak.

3. Approving or encouraging aspect of face; hence, favor, good will,
support; aid; encouragement.
Thou hast made him . . . glad with thy countenance. Ps. xxi. 6.
This is the magistrate's peculiar province, to give countenance to
piety and virtue, and to rebuke vice. Atterbury.

4. Superficial appearance; show; pretense. [Obs.]
The election being done, he made countenance of great discontent
thereat. Ascham.
In countenance, in an assured condition or aspect; free from shame or
dismay. "It puts the learned in countenance, and gives them a place
among the fashionable part of mankind." Addison.
 -- Out of countenance, not bold or assured; confounded; abashed.
"Their best friends were out of countenance, because they found that
the imputations . . . were well grounded." Clarendon.
 -- To keep the countenance, to preserve a composed or natural look,
undisturbed by passion or emotion. Swift.

COUNTENANCE
Coun"te*nance (koun"t-nans), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Countenanced (-
nanst); p. pr. & vb. n. Countenancing.]

1. To encourage; to favor; to approve; to aid; to abet.
This conceit, though countenanced by learned men, is not made out
either by experience or reason. Sir T. Browne.
Error supports custom, custom countenances error. Milton.

2. To make a show of; to pretend. [Obs.]
Which to these ladies love did countenance. Spenser.

COUNTENANCER
Coun"te*nan*cer (-nan-sr), n.

Defn: One who countenances, favors, or supports.

COUNTER
Coun"ter (koun"tr-).

Note: [See Counter, adv. ]

Defn: A prefix meaning contrary, opposite, in opposition; as,
counteract, counterbalance, countercheck. See Counter, adv. & a.

COUNTER
Count"er (koun"tr), n. Etym: [OE. countere, countour, a counter (in
sense 1), OF. contere, conteor, fr. conter to count. See Count, v. t.
]

1. One who counts, or reckons up; a calculator; a reckoner.

2. A piece of metal, ivory, wood, or bone, used in reckoning, in
keeping account of games, etc.
The old gods of our own race whose names . . . serve as counters
reckon the days of the week. E. B. Tylor.
What comes the wool to . . . I can not do it witthout counters. Shak.

3. Money; coin; -- used in contempt. [Obs.]
To lock such rascal counters from his friends. Shak.

4. A prison; either of two prisons formerly in London.
Anne Aysavugh . . . imprisoned in the Counter. Fuller.

5. A telltale; a contrivance attached to an engine, printing press,
or other machine, for the purpose of counting the revolutions or the
pulsations. Knight.

COUNTER
Coun"ter, n. Etym: [OE. countour, OF. contouer, comptouer, F.
comptoir, LL. computatorium, prop., a computing place, place of
accounts, fr. L. computare. See Count, v. t.]

Defn: A table or board on which money is counted and over which
business is transacted; a long, narrow table or bench, on which goods
are laid for examination by purchasers, or on which they are weighed
or measured.

COUNTER
Coun"ter, adv. Etym: [F. contre, fr. L. contra against. Cf. Contra-.]

1. Contrary; in opposition; in an opposite direction; contrariwise; -
- used chiefly with run or go.
Running counter to all the rules of virtue. Locks.

2. In the wrong way; contrary to the right course; as, a hound that
runs counter.
This is counter, you false Danish dogs! Shak.

3. At or against the front or face. [R.]
Which [darts] they never throw counter, but at the back of the flier.
Sandys.

COUNTER
Coun"ter, a.

Defn: Contrary; opposite; contrasted; opposed; adverse; antagonistic;
as, a counter current; a counter revolution; a counter poison; a
counter agent; counter fugue. "Innumerable facts attesting the
counter principle." I. Taylor. Counter approach (Fort.), a trench or
work pushed forward from defensive works to meet the approaches of
besiegers. See Approach.
 -- Counter bond (Law), in old practice, a bond to secure one who has
given bond for another.
 -- Counter brace. See Counter brace, in Vocabulary.
 -- Counter deed (Law), a secret writing which destroys, invalidates,
or alters, a public deed.
 -- Counter distinction, contradistinction. [Obs.] -- Counter drain,
a drain at the foot of the embankment of a canal or watercourse, for
carrying off the water that may soak through.
 -- Counter extension (Surg.), the fixation of the upper part of a
limb, while extension is practiced on the lower part, as in cases of
luxation or fracture.
 -- Counter fissure (Surg.) Same as Contrafissure.
 -- Counter indication. (Med.) Same as Contraindication.
 -- Counter irritant (Med.), an irritant to produce a blister, a
pustular eruption, or other irritation in some part of the body, in
order to relieve an existing irritation in some other part. "Counter
irritants are of as great use in moral as in physical diseases."
Macaulay.
 -- Counter irritation (Med.), the act or the result of applying a
counter irritant.
 -- Counter opening, an aperture or vent on the opposite side, or in
a different place. -Counter parole (Mil.), a word in addition to the
password, given in time of alarm as a signal.
 -- Counter plea (Law), a replication to a plea. Cowell.
 -- Counter pressure, force or pressure that acts in a contrary
direction to some other opposing pressure.
 -- Counter project, a project, scheme, or proposal brought forward
in opposition to another, as in the negotiation of a treaty. Swift.
 -- Counter proof, in engraving, a print taken off from another just
printed, which, by being passed through the press, gives a copy in
reverse, and of course in the same position as that of plate from
which the first was printed, the object being to enable the engraver
to inspect the state of the plate.
 -- Counter revolution, a revolution opposed to a former one, and
restoring a former state of things.
 -- Counter revolutionist, one engaged in, or befriending, a counter
revolution.
 -- Counter round (Mil.), a body of officers whose duty it is to
visit and inspect the rounds and sentinels.
 -- Counter sea (Naut.), a sea running in an opposite direction from
the wind.
 -- Counter sense, opposite meaning.
 -- Counter signal, a signal to answer or correspond to another.
 -- Counter signature, the name of a secretary or other officer
countersigned to a writing. . Tooke.
 -- Counter slope, an overhanging slope; as, a wall with a counter
slope. Mahan.
 -- Counter statement, a statement made in opposition to, or denial
of, another statement.
 -- Counter surety, a counter bond, or a surety to secure one who has
given security.
 -- Counter tally, a tally corresponding to another.
 -- Counter tide, contrary tide.

COUNTER
Coun"ter, n. Etym: [See Counter, adv., Contra.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: The after part of a vessel's body, from the water line to the
stern, -- below and somewhat forward of the stern proper.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: Same as Contra. Formerly used to designate any under part which
served for contrast to a principal part, but now used as equivalent
to counter tenor.

3. (Far.)

Defn: The breast, or thet part of a horse between the shoulders and
under the neck.

4. The back leather or heel part of a boot.

COUNTER
Coun"ter (koun"tr), n.

Defn: An encounter. [Obs.]
With kindly counter under mimic shade. Spenser.

COUNTER
Coun"ter, v. i. (Boxing)

Defn: To return a blow while receiving one, as in boxing.
His left hand countered provokingly. C. Kingsley.

COUNTERACT
Coun`ter*act" (koun`tr-kt"), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Counteracted; p. pr.
& vb. n. Counteracting.]

Defn: To act in opposition to; to hinder, defeat, or frustrate, by
contrary agency or influence; as, to counteract the effect of
medicines; to counteract good advice.

COUNTERACTION
Coun`ter*ac"tion (koun`tr-k"shn), n.

Defn: Action in opposition; hindrance resistance.
[They] do not . . . overcome the counteraction of a false principle
or of stubborn partiality. Johnson.

COUNTERACTIVE
Coun`ter*act"ive (-kt"v), a.

Defn: Tending to counteract.

COUNTERACTIVE
Coun`ter*act"ive, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, counteracts.

COUNTERACTIVELY
Coun`ter*act"ive*ly, adv.

Defn: By counteraction.

COUNTERBALANCE
Coun`ter*bal"ance (-bl"ans), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Counterbalanced (-
anst); p. pr. & vb. n. Counterbalancing.]

Defn: To oppose with an equal weight or power; to counteract the
power or effect of; to countervail; to equiponderate; to balance.
The remaining air was not able to counterbalance the mercurial
cylinder. Boyle.
The cstudy of mind is necessary to counterbalance and correct the
influence of the study of nature. Sir W. Hamilton.

COUNTERBALANCE
Coun"ter*bal`ance (koun"tr-bl`ans), n.

Defn: A weight, power, or agency, acting against or balancing
another; as:
(a) A mass of metal in one side of a driving wheel or fly wheel, to
balance the weight of a crank pin, etc., on the opposite side of the
wheel.
(b) A counterpoise to balance the weight of anything, as of a
drawbridge or a scale beam.
Money is the counterbalance to all other things purchasable by it.
Locke.

COUNTERBORE
Coun"ter*bore` (-br`), n.

1. A flat-bottomed cylindrical enlargement of the mouth of a hole,
usually of slight depth, as for receiving a cylindrical screw head.

2. A kind of pin drill with the cutting edge or edges normal to the
axis; -- used for enlarging a hole, or for forming a flat-bottomed
recess at its mouth.

COUNTERBORE
Coun`ter*bore" (koun`tr-br"), v. t.

Defn: To form a counterbore in, by boring, turning, or drilling; to
enlarge, as a hole, by means of a counterbore.

COUNTER BRACE
Coun"ter brace` (brs`).

1. (Naut.)

Defn: The brace of the fore-topsail on the leeward side of a vessel.

2. (Engin.)

Defn: A brace, in a framed structure, which resists a strain of a
character opposite to that which a main brace is designed to receive.

Note: In a quadrilateral system of bracing, the main brace is usually
in the direction of one diagonal, and the counter brace in the
direction of the other. Strains in counter braces are occasioned by
the live load only, as, in a roof, by the wind, or, in a bridge, by a
moving train.

COUNTERBRACE
Coun"ter*brace`, v. t.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: To brace in opposite directions; as, to counterbrace the yards,
i. e., to brace the head yards one way and the after yards another.

2. (Engin.)

Defn: To brace in such a way that opposite strains are resisted; to
apply counter braces to.

COUNTERBUFF
Coun`ter*buff" (koun`tr-bf"), v. t.

Defn: To strike or drive back or in an opposite direction; to stop by
a blow or impulse in front. Dryden.

COUNTERBUFF
Coun"ter*buff` (koun"tr-bf`), n.

Defn: A blow in an opposite direction; a stroke that stops motion or
cause a recoil.

COUNTERCAST
Coun"ter*cast` (koun"tr-kst`), n.

Defn: A trick; a delusive contrivance. [Obs.] Spenser.

COUNTERCASTER
Coun"ter*cast`er (-r), n.

Defn: A caster of accounts; a reckoner; a bookkeeper; -- used
conteptuously.

COUNTERCHANGE
Coun`ter*change" (koun`tr-chnj), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Counterchanged
(-chnjd"); p. pr. & vb. n. Counterchanging.]

1. To give and receive; to cause to change places; to exchange.

2. To checker; to diversify, as in heraldic counterchanging. See
Counterchaged, a., 2.
With-elms, that counterchange the floor Of this flat lawn with dusk
and bright. Tennyson.

COUNTERCHANGE
Coun"ter*change` (koun"tr-chnj`), n.

Defn: Exchange; reciprocation.

COUNTERCHANGED
Coun`ter*changed" (-chnjd"), a.

1. Exchanged.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Having the tinctures exchanged mutually; thus, if the field is
divided palewise, or and azure, and cross is borne counterchanged,
that part of the cross which comes on the azure side will be or, and
that on the or side will be azure.

COUNTERCHARGE
Coun"ter*charge` (koun"tr-chrj`), n.

Defn: An opposing charge.

COUNTERCHARM
Coun`ter*charm" (koun`tr-chrm"), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Countercharmed
(-chrmd`); p. pr. & vb. n. Countercharming.]

Defn: To destroy the effect of a charm upon.

COUNTERCHARM
Coun"ter*charm` (koun"tr-chrm`), n.

Defn: That which has the power of destroying the effect of a charm.

COUNTERCHECK
Coun`ter*check" (koun`tr-chk"), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Counterchecked (-
chckt"); p. pr. & vb. n. Counterchecking.]

Defn: To oppose or check by some obstacle; to check by a return
check.

COUNTERCHECK
Coun"ter*check` (koun"tr-chk`), n.

1. A check; a stop; a rebuke, or censure to check a reprover.

2. Any force or device designed to restrain another restraining
force; a check upon a check.
The system of checks and counterchecks. J. H. Newton.

COUNTERCLAIM
Coun"ter*claim` (-klm`), n. (Law)

Defn: A claim made by a person as an offset to a claim made on him.

COUNTER-COMPONY
Coun"ter-com*po`ny (-km-p`n), a. (Her.)

Defn: See Compony.

COUNTER-COUCHANT
Coun"ter-couch`ant (koun"tr-kouch"ant), a. (Her.)

Defn: Lying down, with their heads in opposite directions; -- said of
animals borne in a coat of arms.

COUNTER-COURANT
Coun"ter-cou*rant" (-k-rnt"), a. (Her.)

Defn: Running in opposite directions; -- said of animals borne in a
coast of arms.

COUNTERCURRENT
Coun"ter*cur`rent (koun"tr-kr`-rent), a.

Defn: Running in an opposite direction.

COUNTERCURRENT
Coun"ter*cur`rent, n.

Defn: A current running in an opposite direction to the main current.

COUNTERDRAW
Coun`ter*draw" (koun`tr-dr"), v. t. [imp. Counterdrew (-dr"); p. p.
Counterdrawn (-drn"); p. pr. & vb. n. Counterdrawing.]

Defn: To copy, as a design or painting, by tracing with a pencil on
oiled paper, or other transparent substance.

COUNTERFAISANCE
Coun"ter*fai"sance (koun"tr-f"zans), n.

Defn: See Counterfesance. [Obs.]

COUNTERFEIT
Coun"ter*feit (koun"tr-ft), a. Etym: [F. contrefait, p. p. of
contrefaire to counterfeit; contre (L. contra) + faire to make, fr.
L. facere. See Counter, adv., and Fact.]

1. Representing by imitation or likeness; having a resemblance to
something else; portrayed.
Look here upon this picture, and on this-The counterfeit presentment
of two brothers. Shak.

2. Fabricated in imitation of something else, with a view to defraud
by passing the false copy for genuine or original; as, counterfeit
antiques; counterfeit coin. "No counterfeit gem." Robinson (More's
Utopia).

3. Assuming the appearance of something; false; spurious; deceitful;
hypocritical; as, a counterfeit philanthropist. "An arrant
counterfeit rascal." Shak.

Syn.
 -- Forged; fictitious; spurious; false.

COUNTERFEIT
Coun"ter*feit, n.

1. That which resembles or is like another thing; a likeness; a
portrait; a counterpart.
Thou drawest a counterfeit Best in all Athens. Shak.
Even Nature's self envied the same, And grudged to see the
counterfeit should shame The thing itself. Spenser.

2. That which is made in imitation of something, with a view to
deceive by passing the false for the true; as, the bank note was a
counterfeit.
Never call a true piece of gold a counterfeit. Shak.
Some of these counterfeits are fabricated with such exquisite taste
and skill, that it is the achievement of criticism to distinguish
them from originals. Macaulay.

3. One who pretends to be what he is not; one who personates another;
an impostor; a cheat.
I fear thou art another counterfeit; And yet, in faith, thou bears'st
thee like a king. Shak.

COUNTERFEIT
Coun"ter*feit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Counterfeited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Counterfeiting.]

1. To imitate, or put on a semblance of; to mimic; as, to counterfeit
the voice of another person.
Full well they laughed with counterfeited glee At all his jokes, for
many a joke had he. Goldsmith.

2. To imitate with a view to deceiving, by passing the copy for that
which is original or genuine; to forge; as, to counterfeit the
signature of another, coins, notes, etc.

COUNTERFEIT
Coun"ter*feit, v. i.

1. To carry on a deception; to dissemble; to feign; to pretend.
The knave counterfeits well; a good knave. Shak.

2. To make counterfeits.

COUNTERFEITER
Coun"ter*feit`er (-ft`r), n.

1. One who counterfeits; one who copies or imitates; especially, one
who copies or forges bank notes or coin; a forger.
The coin which was corrupted by counterfeiters. Camden.

2. One who assumes a false appearance or semblance; one who makes
false pretenses.
Counterfeiters of devotion. Sherwood.

COUNTERFEITLY
Coun"ter*feit`ly, adv.

Defn: By forgery; falsely.

COUNTERFESANCE
Coun"ter*fe`sance (-f"zans), n. Etym: [OF. contrefaisance, fr.
contrefaire. See Counterfeit, a.]

Defn: The act of forging; forgery. [Obs.] [Written also
counterfaisance.]

COUNTERFLEURY
Coun"ter*fleu`ry (koun"tr-fl`r), a. Etym: [F. contrefleuri.] (Her.)

Defn: Counterflory.

COUNTERFLORY
Coun"ter*flo`ry (-fl`r), a. Etym: [See Counterfleury.] (Her.)

Defn: Adorned with flowers (usually fleurs-de-lis) so divided that
the tops appear on one side and the bottoms on the others; -- said of
any ordinary.

COUNTERFOIL
Coun"ter*foil` (-foil), n. Etym: [Counter- + foil a leaf.]

1. That part of a tally, formerly in the exchequer, which was kept by
an officer in that court, the other, called the stock, being
delivered to the person who had lent the king money on the account; -
- called also counterstock. [Eng.]

2. The part of a writing (as the stub of a bank check) in which are
noted the main particulars contained in the corresponding part, which
has been issued.

COUNTERFORCE
Coun"ter*force` (-frs`), n.

Defn: An opposing force.

COUNTERFORT
Coun"ter*fort` (-frt`), n.

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A kind of buttress of masonry to strengthen a revetment wall.

2. A spur or projection of a mountain. Imp. Dict.

COUNTERGAGE
Coun"ter*gage` (-gj`), n. (Carp.)

Defn: An adjustable gage, with double points for transferring
measurements from one timber to another, as the breadth of a mortise
to the place where the tenon is to be made. Knight.

COUNTERGLOW
Coun"ter*glow`, n. (Astron.)

Defn: An exceedingly faint roundish or somewhat oblong nebulous light
near the ecliptic and opposite the sun, best seen during September
and October, when in the constellations Sagittarius and Pisces. Its
cause is not yet understood. Called also Gegenschein.

COUNTERGUARD
Coun"ter*guard` (koun"tr-grd`), n. (Fort.)

Defn: A low outwork before a bastion or ravelin, consisting of two
lines of rampart parallel to the faces of the bastion, and protecting
them from a breaching fire.

COUNTERIRRITANT; COUNTERIRRITATION
Coun"ter*ir`ri*tant (-r"r-tant), n., Coun"ter*ir`ri*ta"tion, n.

Defn: See Counter irritant, etc., under Counter, a.

COUNTERIRRITATE
Coun"ter*ir"ri*tate (koun"tr-r"r-tt), v. t. (Med.)

Defn: To produce counter irritation in; to treat with one morbid
process for the purpose of curing another.

COUNTERJUMPER
Coun"ter*jump`er (koun"tr-jmp`r), n.

Defn: A salesman in a shop; a shopman; -- used contemtuously. [Slang]

COUNTERLATH
Coun"ter*lath`, n. (Building)
 (a) A batten laid lengthwise between two rafters to afford a bearing
for laths laid crosswise.
 (b) Any lath laid without actual measurement between two gauged
laths.
 (c) Any of a series of laths nailed to the timbers to raise the
sheet lathing above their surface to afford a key for plastering.
 (d) One of many laths used in preparing one side of a partition or
framed wall, when the other side has been covered in and finished.

COUNTERMAN
Coun"ter*man (koun"tr-man), n.; pl. Countermen (-men).

Defn: A man who attends at the counter of a shop to sell goods.
[Eng.]

COUNTERMAND
Coun`ter*mand" (koun`tr-mnd"), v. t. [imp & p. p. Countermanded; p.
pr. & vb. n. Countermanding.] Etym: [F. contremander; contre (L.
contra) + mander to command, fr. L. mandare. Cf. Mandate.]

1. To revoke (a former command); to cancel or rescind by giving an
order contrary to one previously given; as, to countermand an order
for goods.

2. To prohibit; to forbid. [Obs.]
Avicen countermands letting blood in choleric bodles. Harvey.

3. To oppose; to revoke the command of.
For us to alter anuthing, is to lift ourselves against God; and, as
it were, to countermand him. Hooker.

COUNTERMAND
Coun"ter*mand (koun"tr-mnd), n.

Defn: A contrary order; revocation of a former order or command.
Have you no countermand for Claudio yet, But he must die to-morrow
Shak.

COUNTERMANDABLE
Coun`ter*mand"a*ble (-mnd"-b'l), a.

Defn: Capable of being countermanded; revocable. Bacon.

COUNTERMARCH
Coun`ter*march" (koun`tr-mrch"), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Countermarched
(-mrcht"); p. pr. & vb. n. Countermarching.] (Mil.)

Defn: To march back, or to march in reversed order.
The two armies marched and countermarched, drew near and receded.
Macaulay.

COUNTERMARCH
Coun"ter*march` (koun"tr-mrch`), n.

1. A marching back; retrocession.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: An evolution by which a body of troops change front or reverse
the direction of march while retaining the same men in the front
rank; also, a movement by which the rear rank becomes the front one,
either with or without changing the right to the left.

3. A change of measures; alteration of conduct.
Such countermarches and retractions as we do not willingly impute to
wisdom. T. Burnet.

COUNTERMARK
Coun"ter*mark` (-mrk`), n.

1. A mark or token added to those already existing, in order to
afford security or proof; as, an additional or special mark put upon
a package of goods belonging to several persons, that it may not be
opened except in the presence of all; a mark added to that of an
artificer of gold or silver work by the Goldsmiths' Company of
London, to attest the standard quality of the gold or silver; a mark
added to an ancient coin or medal, to show either its change of value
or that it was taken from an enemy.

2. (Far.)

Defn: An artificial cavity made in the teeth of horses that have
outgrown their natural mark, to disguise their age.

COUNTERMARK
Coun`ter*mark" (koun`tr-mrk"), v. t.

Defn: To apply a countenmark to; as, to countermark silverware; to
countermark a horse's teeth.

COUNTERMINE
Coun"ter*mine` (koun"tr-mn`), n. Etym: [Counter- + mine underground
gallery: cf. F. contermine.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: An underground gallery excavated to intercept and destroy the
mining of an enemy.

2. A stratagem or plot by which another sratagem or project is
defeated.
Thinking himself contemned, knowing no countermine against contempt
but terror. Sir P. Sidney.

COUNTERMINE
Coun`ter*mine" (koun`tr-mn"), v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. contreminer.] [imp.
& p. p. Countermined; p. pr. & vb. n. Countermining.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: To oppose by means or a countermine; to intercept with a
countermine.

2. To frustrate or counteract by secret measures.

COUNTERMINE
Coun`ter*mine", v. i.

Defn: To make a countermine or counterplot; to plot secretly.
'Tis hard for man to countermine with God. Chapman.

COUNTERMOVE
Coun`ter*move" (koun`tr-mv"), v. t. & i.

Defn: To move in a contrary direction to.

COUNTERMOVE; COUNTERMOVEMENT
Coun"ter*move` (-mv`), n. Coun"ter*move`ment (-ment).

Defn: A movement in opposition to another.

COUNTERMURE
Coun"ter*mure` (-mr`), n. Etym: [Counter- + mure: cf. F. contremur.]
(Fort.)

Defn: A wall raised behind another, to supply its place when breached
or destroyed. [R.] Cf. Contramure. Knolles.

COUNTERMURE
Coun`ter*mure" (koun`tr-mr"), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Countermured (-
mrd"); p. pr. & vb. n. Countermuring.] Etym: [Cf. F. contremurer.]

Defn: To fortify with a wall behind another wall. [R.] Kyd.

COUNTERNATURAL
Coun"ter*nat`u*ral (koun"tr-nt`-ral; 135), a.

Defn: Contrary to nature. [R.] Harvey.

COUNTER-PALY
Coun"ter-pa`ly (-p`l), a. Etym: [F. contre-palé.] (Her.)

Defn: Paly, and then divided fesswise, so that each vertical piece is
cut into two, having the colors used alternately or counterchanged.
Thus the escutcheon in the illustration may also be blazoned paly of
six per fess counterchanged argent and azure.

COUNTERPANE
Coun"ter*pane` (koun"tr-pn`), n. Etym: [See Counterpoint, corrupted
into counterpane, from the employment of pane-shaped figures in these
coverlets. ]

Defn: A coverlet for a bed, -- originally stitched or woven in
squares or figures.
On which a tissue counterpane was cast. Drayton.

COUNTERPANE
Coun"ter*pane`, n. Etym: [OF. contrepan a pledge, security; contre +
pan a skirt, also, a pawn or gage, F. pan a skirt. See Pane, and cf.
Pawn.] (O. Law)

Defn: A duplicate part or copy of an indenture, deed, etc.,
corresponding with the original; -- now called counterpart.
Read, scribe; give me the counterpane. B. Jonson.

COUNTERPART
Coun"ter*part` (koun"tr-prt`), n.

1. A part corresponding to another part; anything which answers, or
corresponds, to another; a copy; a duplicate; a facsimile.
In same things the laws of Normandy agreed with the laws of England,
so that they seem to be, as it were, copies or counterparts one of
another. Sir M. Hale.

2. (Law)

Defn: One of two corresponding copies of an instrument; a duplicate.

3. A person who closely resembles another.

4. A thing may be applied to another thing so as to fit perfectly, as
a seal to its impression; hence, a thing which is adapted to another
thing, or which suplements it; that which serves to complete or
complement anything; hence, a person or thing having qualities
lacking in another; an opposite.
O counterpart Of our soft sex, well are you made our lords. Dryden.

COUNTERPASSANT
Coun"ter*pas`sant (-ps"sant), a. Etym: [Counter- + passant:cf. F.
contrepassant.] (Her.)

Defn: Passant in opposite directions; -- said of two animals.

COUNTERPLEAD
Coun`ter*plead" (koun`tr-pld"), v. t.

Defn: To plead the contrary of; to plead against; to deny.

COUNTERPLOT
Coun`ter*plot" (koun`tr-plt"), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Counterplotted;p.
pr. & vb. n. Counterplotting.]

Defn: To oppose, as another plot, by plotting; to attempt to
frustrate, as a stratagem, by stratagem.
Every wile had proved abortive, every plot had been counterplotted.
De Quinsey.

COUNTERPLOT
Coun"ter*plot` (koun"tr-plt`), n.

Defn: A plot or artifice opposed to another. L'Estrange.

COUNTERPOINT
Coun"ter*point` (koun"tr-point`), n. Etym: [Counter- + point.]

Defn: An opposite point [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys.

COUNTERPOINT
Coun"ter*point`, n. Etym: [F. contrepoint; cf. It. contrappunto. Cf.
Contrapuntal.] (Mus.)
(a) The setting of note against note in harmony; the adding of one or
more parts to a given canto fermo or melody.
(b) The art of polyphony, or composite melody, i. e., melody not
single, but moving attended by one or more related melodies.
(c) Music in parts; part writing; harmony; polyphonic music. See
Polyphony.
Counterpoint, an invention equivalent to a new creation of music.
Whewell.

COUNTERPOINT
Coun"ter*point`, n. Etym: [OF. contrepoincte, corruption of earlier
counstepointe, countepointe, F. courtepointe, fr. L. culcita cushion,
mattress (see Quilt, and cf. Cushion) + puncta, fem. p. p. of pungere
to prick (see Point). The word properly meant a stitched quilt, with
the colors broken one into another.]

Defn: A coverlet; a cover for a bed, often stitched or broken into
squares; a counterpane. See 1st Counterpane.
Embroidered coverlets or counterpoints of purple silk. Sir T. North.

COUNTERPOISE
Coun"ter*poise` (koun"tr-poiz`; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p.
Counterpoised (-poizd`); p. pr. & vb. n. Counterpoising.] Etym: [OE.
countrepesen, counterpeisen, F. contrepeser. See Counter, adv., and
Poise, v. t. ]

1. To act against with equal weight; to equal in weght; to balance
the weight of; to counterbalance.
Weigts, counterpoising one another. Sir K. Digby.

2. To act against with equal power; to balance.
So many freeholders of English will be able to beard and counterpoise
the rest. Spenser.

COUNTERPOISE
Coun"ter*poise` (koun"tr-poiz`), n. Etym: [OE. countrepese, OF.
contrepois, F. contrepods. See Counter, adv., and Poise, n.]

1. A weight sufficient to balance another, as in the opposite scale
of a balance; an equal weight.
Fastening that to our exact balance, we put a metalline counterpoise
into the opposite scale. Boyle.

2. An equal power or force acting in opposition; a force sufficient
to balance another force.
The second nobles are a counterpoise to the higher nobility, that
they grow not too potent. Bacon.

3. The relation of two weights or forces which balance each other;
equilibrum; equiponderance.
The pendulous round eart, with balanced air, In counterpoise. Milton.

COUNTERPOLE
Coun"ter*pole` (-pl`), n.

Defn: The exact opposite.
The German prose offers the counterpole to the French style. De
Quincey.

COUNTERPONDERATE
Coun`ter*pon"der*ate (-pn"dr-t), v. t.

Defn: TO equal in weight; to counterpoise; to equiponderate.

COUNTERPROVE
Coun`ter*prove" (koun`tr-prv"), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Counterproved (-
prvd"); p. pr. & vb. n. Counterproving.]

Defn: To take a counter proof of, or a copy in reverse, by taking an
impression directly from the face of an original. See Counter proof,
under Counter.

COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY; COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY
counterrevolutionary counter-revolutionary adj.

Defn: marked by opposition or antipathy to revolution; as, ostracized
for his counterrevolutionary tendencies. Opposite of revolutionary.
[WordNet 1.5]

COUNTER-ROLL
Coun"ter-roll` (-rl`), n. Etym: [Cf. Control.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A duplicate roll (record or account) kept by an officer as a
check upon another officer's roll. Burrill.

Note: As a verb this word is contracted into control. See Control.

COUNTERROLMENT
Coun`ter*rol"ment (koun`tr-rl"ment), n.

Defn: A counter account. See Control. [Obs.] Bacon.

COUNTER-SALIENT
Coun`ter-sa"li*ent (-s"l-ent or -sl"yent; 106), a. (Her.)

Defn: Leaping from each other; -- said of two figures on a coast of
arms.

COUNTERSCALE
Coun"ter*scale` (koun"tr-skl`), n.

Defn: Counterbalance; balance, as of one scale against another.
[Obs.] Howell.

COUNTERSCARF
Coun"ter*scarf` (-skrf`), n. Etym: [Counter- + scarp: cf. F.
contrescarpe.] (Fort.)

Defn: The exterior slope or wall of the ditch; -- sometimes, the
whole covered way, beyond the ditch, with its parapet and glacis; as,
the enemy have lodged themselves on the counterscarp.

COUNTERSEAL
Coun`ter*seal" (koun`tr-sl"), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Countersealed (-
sld"); p. pr. & vb. n. Countersealing.]

Defn: To seal or ratify with another or others. Shak.

COUNTERSECURE
Coun`ter*se*cure" (-s-kr"), v. t.

Defn: To give additional security to or for. Burke.

COUNTERSHAFT
Coun"ter*shaft` (koun"tr-shft`), n. (Mach.)

Defn: An intermediate shaft; esp., one which receives motion from a
line shaft in a factory and transmits it to a machine.

COUNTERSIGN
Coun`ter*sign" (-sn`; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Countersigned (-
snd`); p. pr. & vb. n. Countersigning.] Etym: [Counter- + sign: cf.
F. contresigner.]

Defn: To sign on the opposite side of (an instrument or writing);
hence, to sign in addition to the signature of a principal or
superior, in order to attest the authenticity of a writing.

COUNTERSIGN
Coun"ter*sign`, a.

1. The signature of a secretary or other officer to a writing signed
by a principal or superior, to attest its authenticity.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A private signal, word, or phrase, which must be given in order
to pass a sentry; a watchword.

COUNTERSINK
Coun"ter*sink` (koun"tr-sk`; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Countersunk (-
s; p. pr. & vb. n. Countersinking.]

1. To chamfer or form a depression around the top of (a hole in wood,
metal, etc.) for the reception of the head of a screw or bolt below
the surface, either wholly or in part; as, to countersink a hole for
a screw.

2. To cause to sink even with or below the surface; as, to
countersink a screw or bolt into woodwork.

COUNTERSINK
Coun"ter*sink`, n.

1. An enlargement of the upper part of a hole, forming a cavity or
depression for receiving the head of a screw or bolt.

Note: In the United States a flaring cavity formed by chamfering the
edges of a round hole is called a countersink, while a cylindrical
flat-bottomed enlargement of the mouth of the hole is usually called
a conterbore.

2. A drill or cutting tool for countersinking holes.

COUNTERSTAND
Coun"ter*stand` (-st, n.

Defn: Resistance; opposition; a stand against.
Making counterstand to Robert Guiscard. Longfellow.

COUNTERSTEP
Coun"ter*step` (koun"tr-stp`), n.

Defn: A contrary method of procedure; opposite course of action.

COUNTERSTOCK
Coun"ter*stock` (-stk`), n.

Defn: See Counterfoil.

COUNTERSTROKE
Coun"ter*stroke` (-strk`), n.

Defn: A stroke or blow in return. Spenser.

COUNTERSUNK
Coun"ter*sunk` (-snk`), p. p. & a. from Countersink.

1. Chamfered at the top; -- said of a hole.

2. Sunk into a chamfer; as, a countersunk bolt.

3. Beveled on the lower side, so as to fit a chamfered countersink;
as, a countersunk nailhead.

COUNTERSWAY
Coun"ter*sway` (-sw`), n.

Defn: A swaying in a contrary direction; an opposing influence.
[Obs.]
A countersway of restraint, curbing their wild exorbitance. Milton.

COUNTER TENOR
Coun"ter ten`or (tn`r). Etym: [OF. contreteneur. Cf. Contratenor, and
see Tenor a part in music.] (Mus.)

Defn: One of the middle parts in music, between the tenor and the
treble; high tenor. Counter-tenor clef (Mus.), the C clef when placed
on the third line; -- also called alto clef.

COUNTERTERM
Coun"ter*term` (-trm`), n.

Defn: A term or word which is the opposite of, or antithesis to,
another; an antonym; -- the opposite of synonym; as, "foe" is the
counterterm of "friend". C. J. Smith.

COUNTERTIME
Coun"ter*time` (-tm`), n.

1. (Man.)

Defn: The resistance of a horse, that interrupts his cadence and the
measure of his manege, occasioned by a bad horseman, or the bad
temper of the horse.

2. Resistance; opposition. [Obs.]
Give not shus the countertime to fate. Dryden.

COUNTERTRIPPANT
Coun"ter*trip`pant (-trp`pant), a. (Her.)

Defn: Trippant in opposite directions. See Trippant.

COUNTERTRIPPING
Coun"ter*trip`ping (-trp`png), a. (Her.)

Defn: Same as Countertrippant.

COUNTERTURN
Coun"ter*turn` (-t, n.

Defn: The critical moment in a play, when, contrary to expectation,
the action is embroiled in new difficulties. Dryden.

COUNTERVAIL
Coun`ter*vail" (koun`tr-vl"), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Countervailed (-
vld); p. pr. & vb. n. Countervailing.] Etym: [OF. contrevaloir;
contre (L. contra) + valoir to avail, fr. L. valere to be strong,
avail. See Vallant.]

Defn: To act against with equal force, power, or effect; to thwart or
overcome by such action; to furnish an equivalent to or for; to
counterbalance; to compensate.
Upon balancing the account, the profit at last will hardly
countervail the inconveniences that go allong with it. L'Estrange.

COUNTERVAIL
Coun"ter*vail` (koun"tr-vl`), n.

Defn: Power or value sufficient to obviate any effect; equal weight,
strength, or value; equivalent; compensation; requital. [Obs.]
Surely, the present pleasure of a sinful act is a poor countervail
for the bitterness of the review. South.

COUNTERVALLATION
Coun`ter*val*la"tion (-vl-l"sn), n. (Fort.)

Defn: See Contravallation.

COUNTERVIEW
Coun"ter*view` (koun"tr-v`), n.

1. An opposite or opposing view; opposition; a posture in which two
persons front each other.
Within the gates of hell sat Death and Sin, In counterview. Milton
M. Peisse has ably advocated the counterview in his preface and
appendixx. Sir W. Hamilton.

2. A position in which two dissimilar things illustrate each other by
opposition; contrast.
I have drawn some lines of Linger's character, on purpose to place it
in counterview, or contrast with that of the other company. Swift.

COUNTERVOTE
Coun`ter*vote" (koun`tr-vt"), v. t.

Defn: To vote in opposition ti; to balance or overcome by viting; to
outvote. Dr. J. Scott.

COUNTERWAIT
Coun`ter*wait", v. t.

Defn: To wait or watch for; to be on guard against. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COUNTERWEIGH
Coun`ter*weigh" (-w"), v. t.

Defn: To weigh against; to counterbalance.

COUNTER WEIGHT
Coun"ter *weight` (-wt`), n.

Defn: A counterpoise.

COUNTERWHEEL
Coun`ter*wheel" (-hwl"), v. t. (Mil.)

Defn: To cause to wheel or turn in an opposite direction.

COUNTERWORK
Coun`ter*work" (-wrk"), v. t.

Defn: To work in oppositeion to; to counteract.
That counterworksh folly and caprice. Pope.

COUNTESS
Count"ess (kount"s), n.; pl. Countesses (-. Etym: [F. comtesse. See
Count a nobleman.]

Defn: The wife of an earl in the British peerage, or of a count in
the Continental nobility; also, a lady possessed of the same dignity
in her own right. See the Note under Count.

COUNTINGHOUSE; COUNTINGROOM
Count"ing*house` (kount"ng-hous`), Count"ing*room` (kount"ng-rm`), n.
Etym: [See Count, v. ]

Defn: The house or room in which a merchant, trader, or manufacturer
keeps his books and transacts business.

COUNTLESS
Count"less (-ls), a.

Defn: Incapable of being counted; not ascertainable; innumerable.

COUNTOR
Count"or (kount"r), n. Etym: [From Count, v. t. (in sense 4).] (O.
Eng. Law)

Defn: An advocate or professional pleader; one who counted for his
client, that is, orally pleaded his cause. [Obs.] Burrill.

COUNTOUR; COUNTOURHOUSE
Coun*tour" (kn-tr"), Coun*tour"house` (-hous`), n. Etym: [See 2d
Counter.]

Defn: A merchant's office; a countinghouse. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COUNTRE-
Coun"tre- (koun"ter-).

Defn: Same as prefix Counter-. [Obs.]

COUNTREPLETE
Coun`tre*plete" (-plt"), v. t. Etym: [Countre- + plete to plead.]

Defn: To counterplead. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COUNTRETAILLE
Coun"tre*taille` (koun"tr-tl`), n. Etym: [F. contretaille; contre (L.
contra) + taille cut. See Tally.]

Defn: A counter tally; correspondence (in sound). [Obs.] At the
countretaille, in return. Chaucer.

COUNTRIFIED
Coun"tri*fied (kn"tr-fld), p. a.

Defn: Having the appearance and manners of a rustic; rude.
As being one who took no pride, And was a deal too countrified.
Lloyd.

COUNTRIFY
Coun"tri*fy (kn"tr-f), v. t.

Defn: To give a rural appearance to; to cause to appear rustic. Lamb.

COUNTRY
Coun"try (kn"tr), n.; pl. Countries (-tr. Etym: [F. contr, LL.
contrata, fr. L. contra over against, on the opposite side. Cf.
Counter, adv., Contra.]

1. A tract of land; a region; the territory of an independent nation;
(as distinguished from any other region, and with a personal pronoun)
the region of one's birth, permanent residence, or citizenship.
Return unto thy country, and to thy kindred. Gen. xxxxii. 9.
I might have learned this by my last exile, that change of countries
cannot change my state. Stirling.
Many a famous realm And country, whereof here needs no account
Milton.

2. Rural regions, as opposed to a city or town.
As they walked, on their way into the country. Mark xvi. 12 (Rev.
Ver. ).
God made the covatry, and man made the town. Cowper.
Only very great men were in the habit of dividing the year between
town and country. Macualay.

3. The inhabitants or people of a state or a region; the populace;
the public. Hence: (a) One's constituents. (b) The whole body of the
electors of state; as, to dissolve Parliament and appeal to the
country.
All the country in a general voice Cried hate upon him. Shak.

4. (Law)
(a) A jury, as representing the citizens of a country.
(b) The inhabitants of the district from which a jury is drawn.

5. (Mining.)

Defn: The rock through which a vein runs. Conclusion to the country.
See under Conclusion.
 -- To put, or throw, one's self upon the country, to appeal to one's
constituents; to stand trial before a jury.

COUNTRY
Coun"try, a.

1. Pertaining to the regions remote from a city; rural; rustic; as, a
country life; a country town; the country party, as opposed to city.

2. Destitute of refinement; rude; unpolished; rustic; not urbane; as,
country manners.

3. Pertaining, or peculiar, to one's own country.
She, bowing herself towards him, laughing the cruel tyrant to scorn,
spake in her country language. 2 Macc. vii. 27.

COUNTRY BANK
Coun"try bank. (Banking)

Defn: A national bank not in a reserve city. [Colloq., U. S.]

COUNTRY-BASE
Coun"try-base` (-bs`), n.

Defn: Same as Prison base.

COUNTRY CLUB
Coun"try club.

Defn: A club usually located in the suburbs or vicinity of a city or
town and devoted mainly to outdoor sports.

COUNTRY COUSIN
Coun"try cousin.

Defn: A relative from the country visiting the city and unfamiliar
with city manners and sights.

COUNTRY-DANCE
Coun"try-dance` (-dns`), n. Etym: [Prob. an adaptation of
contradance.]

Defn: See Contradance.
He had introduced the English country-dance to the knowledge of the
Dutch ladies. Macualay.

COUNTRYMAN
Coun"try*man (kn"tr-man), n.; pl. Countrymen (-men).

1. An inhabitant or native of a region. Shak.

2. One born in the same country with another; a compatriot; -- used
with a possessive pronoun.
In perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils by mine own
countrymen. 2 Cor. xi. 26.

3. One who dwells in the country, as distinguished from a townsman or
an inhabitant of a city; a rustic; a husbandman or farmer.
A simple countryman that brought her figs. Shak.

COUNTRY SEAT
Coun"try seat` (kn"tr st`).

Defn: A dwelling in the country, used as a place of retirement from
the city.

COUNTRYSIDE
Coun"try*side` (-sd`), n.

Defn: A particular rural district; a country neighborhood. [Eng.] W.
Black. Blackmore.

COUNTRYWOMAN
Coun"try*wom`an (-wm`an), n.; pl. Countrywomen (-w.

Defn: A woman born, or dwelling, in the country, as opposed to the
city; a woman born or dwelling in the same country with another
native or inhabitant. Shak.

COUNT-WHEEL
Count"-wheel` (kount"hwl`), n.

Defn: The wheel in a clock which regulates the number of strokes.

COUNTY
Coun"ty (koun"t), n.; pl. Counties (-t. Etym: [F. comt, fr. LL.
comitatus. See Count.]

1. An earldom; the domain of a count or earl. [Obs.]

2. A circuit or particular portion of a state or kingdom, separated
from the rest of the territory, for certain purposes in the
administration of justice and public affairs; -- called also a shire.
See Shire.
Every county, every town, every family, was in agitation. Macaulay.

3. A count; an earl or lord. [Obs.] Shak. County commissioners. See
Commissioner.
 -- County corporate, a city or town having the privilege to be a
county by itself, and to be governed by its own sheriffs and other
magistrates, irrespective of the officers of the county in which it
is situated; as London, York, Bristol, etc. [Eng.] Mozley & W.
 -- County court, a court whose jurisdiction is limited to county.
 -- County palatine, a county distingushed by particular privileges;
-- so called a palatio (from the palace), because the owner had
originally royal powers, or the same powers, in the administration of
justice, as the king had in his palace; but these powers are now
abridged. The counties palatine, in England, are Lancaster, Chester,
and Durham.
 -- County rates, rates levied upon the county, and collected by the
boards of guardians, for the purpose of defraying the expenses to
which counties are liable, such as repairing bridges, jails, etc.
[Eng.] -- County seat, a county town. [U.S.] -- County sessions, the
general quarter sessions of the peace for each county, held four
times a year. [Eng.] -- County town, the town of a county, where the
county business is transacted; a shire town.

COUP
Coup (k), n. Etym: [F., fr.L. colaphus a cuff, Gr.

Defn: A sudden stroke; an unexpected device or stratagem; -- a term
used in various ways to convey the idea of promptness and force. Coup
de grace (ke gr Etym: [F.], the stroke of mercy with which an
executioner ends by death the sufferings of the condemned; hence, a
decisive, finishing stroke.
 -- Coup de main (ke m Etym: [F.] (Mil.), a sudden and unexpected
movement or attack.
 -- Coup de soleil (k Etym: [F.] (Med.), a sunstroke. See Sunstroke.
 -- Coup d'état (k Etym: [F.] (Politics), a sudden, decisive exercise
of power whereby the existing government is subverted without the
consent of the people; an unexpected measure of state, more or less
violent; a stroke of policy.
 -- Coup d'oeil (k. Etym: [F.] (a) A single view; a rapid glance of
the eye; a comprehensive view of a scene; as much as can be seen at
one view. (b) The general effect of a picture. (c) (Mil.) The faculty
or the act of comprehending at a glance the weakness or strength of a
military position, of a certain arrangement of troops, the most
advantageous position for a battlefield, etc.

COUPABLE
Cou (k"p-b'l), a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Culpable. [Obs.]

COUPE
Cou`pé" (k`p"), n. Etym: [F., fr. coupé, p. p. of couper to cut. See
Coppice.]

1. The front compartment of a French diligence; also, the front
compartment (usually for three persons) of a car or carriage on
British railways.

2. A four-wheeled close carriage for two persons inside, with an
outside seat for the driver; -- so called because giving the
appearance of a larger carriage cut off.

COUPED
Couped (kpt), a. Etym: [F. couper to cut.] (Her.)

Defn: Cut off smoothly, as distinguished from erased; -- used
especially for the head or limb of an animal. See Erased.

COUPEE
Cou*pee" (k-p"; F. k`p), n. Etym: [F. coupé, n., properly p. p. of
couper to cut. Cf. Coupé, Coopee.]

Defn: A motion in dancing, when one leg is a little bent, and raised
from the floor, and with the other a forward motion is made.
Chambers.

COUPE-GORGE
Coupe`-gorge" (kp`grzh"), n. Etym: [F., cut throat.] (Mil.)

Defn: Any position giving the enemy such advantage that the troops
occupying it must either surrender or be cut to pieces. Farrow.

COUPLE
Cou"ple (kp"'l), n. Etym: [F. couple, fr. L. copula a bond, band; co-
+ apere, aptum, ti join. See Art, a., and cf.Copula.]

1. That which joins or links two things together; a bond or tie; a
coupler. [Obs.]
It is in some sort with friends as it is with dogs in couples; they
should be of the same size and humor. L'Estrange.
I'll go in couples with her. Shak.

2. Two of the same kind connected or considered together; a pair; a
brace. "A couple of shepherds." Sir P. Sidney. "A couple of drops"
Adduson. "A couple of miles." Dickens. "A couple of weeks." Carlyle.
Adding one to one we have the complex idea of a couple. Locke.
[Ziba] met him with a couple of asses saddled. 2 Sam. xvi. 1.

3. A male and female associated together; esp., a man and woman who
are married or betrothed.
Such were our couple, man and wife. Lloyd.
Fair couple linked in happy, nuptial league. Milton.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: See Couple-close.

5. (Elec.)

Defn: One of the pairs of plates of two metals which compose a
voltaic battery; -- called a voltaic couple or galvanic couple.

6. (Mech.)

Defn: Two rotations, movements, etc., which are equal in amount but
opposite in direction, and acting along parallel lines or around
parallel axes.

Note: The effect of a couple of forces is to produce a rotation. A
couple of rotations is equivalent to a motion of translation.

COUPLE
Cou"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coupled (kp"'ld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Coupling (-lng).] Etym: [F. coupler, fr. L. copulare. See Couple, n.,
and cf. Copulate, Cobble, v. ]

1. To link or tie, as one thing to another; to connect or fasten
together; to join.
Huntsman, I charge thee, tender well my hounds, . . . And couple
Clowder with the deep-mouthed brach. Shak.

2. To join in wedlock; to marry. [Colloq.]
A parson who couples all our beggars. Swift.

COUPLE
Cou"ple, v. i.

Defn: To come together as male and female; to copulate. [Obs.]
Milton. Bacon.

COUPLE-BEGGAR
Cou"ple-beg`gar (-bg`gr), n.

Defn: One who makes it his business to marry beggars to each other.
Swift.

COUPLE-CLOSE
Cou"ple-close` (kp"-kls`), n.; pl. Couple-closes (-kl

1. (Her.)

Defn: A diminutive of the chevron, containing one fourth of its
surface. Couple-closes are generally borne one on each side of a
chevron, and the blazoning may then be either a chevron between two
couple-closes or chevron cottised.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A pair of rafters framed together with a tie fixed at their
feet, or with a collar beam. [Engl.]

COUPLEMENT
Cou"ple*ment (kp"'l-ment), n. Etym: [Cf. OF. couplement.]

Defn: Union; combination; a coupling; a pair. [Obs.] Shak.
And forth together rode, a goodly couplement. Spenser.

COUPLER
Coup"ler (kp"lr), n.

Defn: One who couples; that which couples, as a link, ring, or
shackle, to connect cars. Coupler of an organ, a contrivance by which
any two or more of the ranks of keys, or keys and pedals, are
connected so as to act together when the organ is played.

COUPLET
Coup"let (-lt), n. Etym: [F. couplet, dim. of couple. See Couple, n.
]

Defn: Two taken together; a pair or couple; especially two lines of
verse that rhyme with each other.
A sudden couplet rushes on your mind. Crabbe.

COUPLING
Coup"ling (-lng), n.

1. The act of bringing or coming together; connection; sexual union.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A device or contrivance which serves to couple or connect
adjacent parts or objects; as, a belt coupling, which connects the
ends of a belt; a car coupling, which connects the cars in a train; a
shaft coupling, which connects the ends of shafts. Box coupling,
Chain coupling. See under Box, Chain.
 -- Coupling box, a coupling shaped like a journal box, for clamping
together the ends of two shafts, so that they may revolve together.
 -- Coupling pin, a pin or bolt used in coupling or joining together
railroad cars, etc.

COUPON
Cou"pon (k"pn; F. k`pn"), n. Etym: [F., fr. couper to cut, cut off.
See Coppice.]

1. (Com.)

Defn: A certificate of interest due, printed at the bottom of
transferable bonds (state, railroad, etc.), given for a term of
years, designed to be cut off and presented for payment when the
interest is due; an interest warrant.

2. A section of a ticket, showing the holder to be entitled to some
specified accomodation or service, as to a passage over a designated
line of travel, a particular seat in a theater, or the like.

COUPSTICK
Coup"stick` (koo"stik`), n. [Coup + stick.]

Defn: A stick or switch used among some American Indians in making or
counting a coup.

COUPURE
Cou*pure" (k-pr"), n. Etym: [F., fr. couper to cut.] (Fort.)

Defn: A passage cut through the glacis to facilitate sallies by the
besieged. Wilhelm.

COURAGE
Cour"age (kr"j;48), n. Etym: [OE. corage heart, mind, will, courage,
OF. corage, F. courage, fr. a LL. derivative of L. cor heart. See
Heart.]

1. The heart; spirit; temper; disposition. [Obs.]
So priketh hem nature in here corages. Chaucer.
My lord, cheer up your spirits; our foes are nigh, and this soft
courage makes your followers faint. Shak.

2. Heart; inclination; desire; will. [Obs.] Chaucer.
I'd such a courage to do him good. Shak.

3. That quality of mind which enables one to encounter danger and
difficulties with firmness, or without fear, or fainting of heart;
valor; boldness; resolution.
The king-becoming graces . . . Devotion, patience, courage,
fortitude, I have no relish of them. Shak.
Courage that grows from constitution often forsakes a man when he has
occasion for it. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Heroism; bravery; intrepidity; valor; gallantry; daring;
firmness; hardihood; boldness; dauntlessness; resolution. See
Heroism.
 -- Courage, Bravery, Fortitude, Intrepidity, Gallantry, Valor.
Courage is that firmness of spirit and swell of soul which meets
danger without fear. Bravery is daring and impetuous courage, like
that of one who has the reward continually in view, and displays his
courage in daring acts. Fortitude has often been styled "passive
courage," and consist in the habit of encountering danger and
enduring pain with a steadfast and unbroken spirit. Valor is courage
exhibited in war, and can not be applied to single combats; it is
never used figuratively. Intrepidity is firm, unshaken courage.
Gallantry is adventurous courage, which courts danger with a high and
cheerful spirit. A man may show courage, fortitude, or intrepidity in
the common pursuits of life, as well as in war. Valor, bravery, and
gallantry are displayed in the contest of arms. Valor belongs only to
battle; bravery may be shown in single combat; gallantry may be
manifested either in attack or defense; but in the latter ease, the
defense is usually turned into an attack.

COURAGE
Cour"age, v. t.

Defn: To inspire with courage. [Obs.]
Paul writeth unto Timothy . . . to courage him. Tyndale.

COURAGEOUS
Cour*a"geous (kr-"js), a. Etym: [F. courageux.]

Defn: Possessing, or characterized by, courage; brave; bold.
With this victory, the women became most courageous and proud, and
the men waxed . . . fearful and desperate. Stow.

Syn.
 -- Gallant; brave; bold; daring; valiant; valorous; heroic;
intrepid; fearless; hardy; stout; adventurous; enterprising. See
Gallant.

COURAGEOUSLY
Cour*a"geous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a courageous manner.

COURAGEOUSNESS
Cour*a"geous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being courageous; courage.

COURANT
Cou*rant" (k-rnt"), a. Etym: [F., p. pr. of courir to run, L.
currere. Cf. Current.] (Her.)

Defn: Represented as running; -- said of a beast borne in a coat of
arms.

COURANT
Cou*rant" (k-rnt"), n. Etym: [F. courante, fr. courant, p. pr.]

1. A piece of music in triple time; also, a lively dance; a coranto.

2. A circulating gazette of news; a newspaper.

COURANTO
Cou*ran"to (-rn"t), n.

Defn: A sprightly dance; a coranto; a courant.

COURAP
Cou*rap" (k-rp), n. (Med.)

Defn: A skin disease, common in India, in which there is perpetual
itching and eruption, esp. of the groin, breast, armpits, and face.

COURB
Courb (krb), a. Etym: [F. courbe, fr. L. curvus. See Curve, a.]

Defn: Curved; rounded. [Obs.]
Her neck is short, her shoulders courb. Gower.

COURB
Courb (krb), v. i. Etym: [F. courber. See Curs.]

Defn: To bend; to stop; to bow. [Obs.]
Then I courbed on my knees. Piers Plowman.

COURBARIL
Cour"ba*ril (kr"b-rl), n. Etym: [F. courbaril, from a South American
word.]

Defn: See Animé, n.

COURCHE
Courche (krsh), n. Etym: [Cf. Kerchief.]

Defn: A square piece of linen used formerly by women instead of a
cap; a kerchief. [Scot.] [Written also curch.] Jamieson.

COURIER
Cou"ri*er (k"r-r), n. Etym: [F. courrier, fr. courre, courir, to run,
L. currere. See Course, Current.]

1. A messenger sent with haste to convey letters or dispatches,
usually on public busuness.
The wary Bassa . . . by speedy couriers, advertised Solyman of the
enemy's purpose. Knolles.

2. An attendant on travelers, whose business it is to make
arrangements for their convenience at hotels and on the way.

COURLAN
Cour"lan (kr"ln), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American bird, of the genus Aramus, allied to the
rails.

COURSE
Course (krs), n. Etym: [F. cours, course, L. cursus, fr. currere to
run. See Current.]

1. The act of moving from one point to another; progress; passage.
And when we had finished our course from Tyre, we came to Ptolemais.
Acts xxi. 7.

2. THe ground or path traversed; track; way.
The same horse also run the round course at Newmarket. Pennant.

3. Motion, considered as to its general or resultant direction or to
its goal; line progress or advance.
A light by which the Argive squadron steers Their silent course to
Ilium's well known shore. Dennham.
Westward the course of empire takes its way. Berkeley.

4. Progress from point to point without change of direction; any part
of a progress from one place to another, which is in a straight line,
or on one direction; as, a ship in a long voyage makes many courses;
a course measured by a surveyor between two stations; also, a
progress without interruption or rest; a heat; as, one course of a
race.

5. Motion considered with reference to manner; or derly progress;
procedure in a certain line of thought or action; as, the course of
an argument.
The course of true love never did run smooth. Shak.

6. Customary or established sequence of evants; re currence of events
according to natural laws.
By course of nature and of law. Davies.
Day and night, Seedtime and harvest, heat and hoary frost, Shall hold
their course. Milton.

7. Method of procedure; manner or way of conducting; conduct;
behavior.
My lord of York commends the plot and the general course of the
action. Shak.
By perseverance in the course prescribed. Wodsworth.
You hold your course without remorse. Tennyson.

8. A series of motions or acts arranged in order; a succession of
acts or practices connectedly followed; as, a course of medicine; a
course of lectures on chemistry.

9. The succession of one to another in office or duty; order; turn.
He appointed . . . the courses of the priests 2 Chron. viii. 14.

10. That part of a meal served at one time, with its accompaniments.
He [Goldsmith] wore fine clothes, gave dinners of several courses,
paid court to venal beauties. Macualay.

11. (Arch.)

Defn: A continuous level range of brick or stones of the same height
throughout the face or faces of a building. Gwilt.

12. (Naut.)

Defn: The lowest sail on any mast of a square-rigged vessel; as, the
fore course, main course, etc.

13. pl. (Physiol.)

Defn: The menses. In course, in regular succession.
 -- Of course, by consequence; as a matter of course; in regular or
natural order.
 -- In the course of, at same time or times during. "In the course of
human events." T. Jefferson.

Syn.
 -- Way; road; route; passage; race; series; succession; manner;
method; mode; career; progress.

COURSE
Course, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coursed (krst)); p. pr. & vb. n.
Coursing.]

1. To run, hunt, or chase after; to follow hard upon; to pursue.
We coursed him at the heels. Shak.

2. To cause to chase after or pursue game; as, to course greyhounds
after deer.

3. To run through or over.
The bounding steed courses the dusty plain. Pope.

COURSE
Course, v. i.

1. To run as in a race, or in hunting; to pursue the sport of
coursing; as, the sportsmen coursed over the flats of Lancashire.

2. To move with speed; to race; as, the blood courses through the
veins. Shak.

COURSED
Coursed (krst), a.

1. Hunted; as, a coursed hare.

2. Arranged in courses; as, coursed masonry.

COURSER
Cours"er (krs"r), n. Etym: [F. coursier.]

1. One who courses or hunts.
leash is a leathern thong by which . . . a courser leads his
greyhound. Hanmer.

2. A swift or spirited horse; a racer or a war horse; a charger.
[Poetic.] Pope.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A grallatorial bird of Europe (Cursorius cursor), remarkable
for its speed in running. Sometimes, in a wider sense, applied to
running birds of the Ostrich family.

COURSEY
Cour"sey (kr"s), n. Etym: [Cf. OF. corsie, coursie, passage way to
the stern. See Course, n. ] (Naut.)

Defn: A space in the galley; a part of the hatches. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

COURSING
Cours"ing (krs"ng), n.

Defn: The pursuit or running game with dogs that follow by sight
instead of by scent.
In coursing of a deer, or hart, with greyhounds. Bacon

COURT
Court (krt), n. Etym: [OF. court, curt, cort, F. co, LL. cortis, fr.
L. cohors, cors, chors, gen. cohortis, cortis, chortis, an inclosure,
court, thing inclosed, crowd, throng; co- + a root akin to Gr.
garden, yard, orchard. See Yard, and cf. Cohort, Curtain.]

1. An inclosed space; a courtyard; an uncovered area shut in by the
walls of a building, or by different building; also, a space opening
from a street and nearly surrounded by houses; a blind alley.
The courts the house of our God. Ps. cxxxv. 2.
And round the cool green courts there ran a row Cf cloisters.
Tennyson.
Goldsmith took a garret in a miserable court. Macualay.

2. The residence of a sovereign, prince, nobleman, or ether
dignitary; a palace.
Attends the emperor in his royal court. Shak.
This our court, infected with their manners, Shows like a riotous
inn. Shak.

3. The collective body of persons composing the retinue of a
sovereign or person high in aithority; all the surroundings of a
sovereign in his regal state.
My lord, there is a nobleman of the court at door would speak with
you. Shak.
Love rules the court, the camp, the grove. Sir. W. Scott.

4. Any formal assembling of the retinue of a sovereign; as, to hold a
court.
The princesses held their court within the fortres. Macualay.

5. Attention directed to a person in power; conduct or address
designed to gain favor; courtliness of manners; civility; compliment;
flattery.
No solace could her paramour intreat Her once to show, ne court, nor
dalliance. Spenser.
I went to make my court to the Dike and Duches of Newcastle. Evelyn.

6. (Law)
(a) The hall, chamber, or place, where justice is administered.
(b) The persons officially assembled under authority of law, at the
appropriate time and place, for the administration of justice; an
official assembly, legally met together for the transaction of
judicial business; a judge or judges sitting for the hearing or trial
of causes.
(c) A tribunal established for the administration of justice.
(d) The judge or judges; as distinguished from the counsel or jury,
or both.
Most heartily I do beseech the court To give the judgment. Shak.

7. The session of a judicial assembly.

8. Any jurisdiction, civil, military, or ecclesiastical.

9. A place arranged for playing the game of tennis; also, one of the
divisions of a tennis court. Christian court, the English
ecclesiastical courts in the aggregate, or any one of them.
 -- Court breeding, education acquired at court.
 -- Court card. Same as Coat card.
 -- Court circular, one or more paragraphs of news respecting the
sovereign and the royal family, together with the proceedings or
movements of the court generally, supplied to the newspapers by an
officer specially charged with such duty. [Eng.] Edwards.
 -- Court day, a day on which a court sits to administer justice.
 -- Court dress, the dress prescribed for appearance at the court of
a sovereign.
 -- Court fool, a buffoon or jester, formerly kept by princes and
nobles for their amusement.
 -- Court guide, a directory of the names and adresses of the
nobility and gentry in a town.
 -- Court hand, the hand or manner of writing used in records and
judicial proceedings. Shak.
 -- Court lands (Eng. Law), lands kept in demesne, -- that is, for
the use of the lord and his family.
 -- Court marshal, one who acts as marshal for a court.
 -- Court party, a party attached to the court.
 -- Court rolls, the records of a court. SeeRoll.
 -- Court in banc, or Court in bank, The full court sitting at its
regular terms for the hearing of arguments upon questions of law, as
distinguished from a sitting at nisi prius.
 -- Court of Arches, audience, etc. See under Arches, Audience, etc.
 -- Court of Chancery. See Chancery, n.
 -- Court of Common pleas. (Law) See Common pleas, under Common.
 -- Court of Equity. See under Equity, and Chancery.
 -- Court of Inquiry (Mil.) , a court appointed to inquire into and
report on some military matter, as the conduct of an officer.
 -- Court of St. James, the usual designation of the British Court; -
- so called from the old palace of St. James, which is used for the
royal receptions, levees, and drawing-rooms.
 -- The court of the Lord, the temple at Jerusalem; hence, a church,
or Christian house of worship.
 -- General Court, the legislature of a State; -- so called from
having had, in the colonial days, judical power; as, the General
Court of Massachusetts. [U.S.] -- To pay one's court, to seek to gain
favor by attentions. "Alcibiades was assiduous in paying his court to
Tissaphernes." Jowett.
 -- To put out of court, to refuse further judicial hearing.

COURT
Court, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Courted; p. pr. & vb. n. Courting.]

1. To endeavor to gain the favor of by attention or flattery; to try
to ingratiate one's self with.
By one person, hovever, Portland was still assiduously courted.
Macualay.

2. To endeavor to gain the affections of; to seek in marriage; to
woo.
If either of you both love Katharina . . . leave shall you have to
court her at your pleasure. Shak.

3. To attempt to gain; to solicit; to seek.
They might almost seem to have courted the crown of martyrdem.
Prescott.
Guilt and misery . . . court privacy and silitude. De Quincey.

4. To invite by attractions; to allure; to attract.
A well-worn pathway courted us To one green wicket in a privet hedge.
Tennyson.

COURT
Court, v. i.

1. To play the lover; to woo; as, to go courting.

COURT-BARON
Court"-bar`on (-br`n), n. (Law)

Defn: An inferior court of civil jurisdiction, attached to a manor,
and held by the steward; a baron's court; -- now fallen into disuse.

COURTBRED
Court"bred` (-brd`), a.

Defn: Bred, or educated, at court; polished; courtly.

COURT-CRAFT
Court"-craft` (krt"krft`), n.

Defn: The artifices, intrigues, and plottings, at courts.

COURT-CUPBOARD
Court"-cup`board (-kb`brd), n.

Defn: A movable sideboard or buffet, on which plate and other
articles of luxury were displayed on special ocasions. [Obs.]
A way with the joint stools, remove the court-cupboard, look to the
plate. Shak.

COURTELLE
Courtelle n.

Defn: a wool-like fabric.
[WordNet 1.5]

COURTEOUS
Cour"te*ous (kr"t-s; 277), a. Etym: [OE. cortais, corteis, cortois,
rarely corteous, OF. corties, corteis, F. courtois. See Court.]

Defn: Of courtlike manners; pertaining to, or exxpressive of,
courtesy; characterized by courtesy; civil; obliging; well bred;
polite; affable; complaisant.
A patient and courteous bearing. Prescott.
His behavior toward his people is grave and courteous. Fuller.

COURTEOUSLY
Cour"te*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a courteous manner.

COURTEOUSNESS
Cour"te*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being courteous; politeness; courtesy.

COURTEPY
Cour"te*py (kr"t-p), n. Etym: [D. kort short + pije a coarse cloth.]

Defn: A short coat of coarse cloth. [Obs.]
Full threadbare was his overeste courtepy. Chaucer.

COURTER
Court"er (krt"r), n.

Defn: One who courts; one who plays the lover, or who solicits in
marriage; one who flatters and cajoles. Sherwood.

COURTESAN
Cour"te*san (kr"t-zn; 277), n. Etym: [F. courtisane, fr. courtisan
courtier, It. cortigiano; or directly fr. It. cortigiana, or Sp.
cortesana. See Court.]

Defn: A woman who prostitutes herself for hire; a prostitute; a
harlot.
Lasciviously decked like a courtesan. Sir H. Wotton.

COURTESANSHIP
Cour"te*san*ship, n.

Defn: Harlotry.

COURTESY
Cour"te*sy (kr"t-s), n.; pl. Courtesies (-s. Etym: [OE. cortaisie,
corteisie, courtesie, OF. curteisie, cortoisie, OF. curteisie,
cortoisie, F. courtoisie, fr. curteis, corteis. See Courteous.]

1. Politeness; civility; urbanity; courtliness.
And trust thy honest-offered courtesy, With oft is sooner found in
lowly sheds, With smoky rafters, than in tapestry walls And courts of
princes, where it first was named, And yet is most pretended. Milton.
Pardon me, Messer Claudio, if once more I use the ancient courtesies
of speech. Longfellow.

2. An act of civility or respect; an act of kindness or favor
performed with politeness.
My lord, for your many courtesies I thank you. Shak.

3. Favor or indulgence, as distinguished from right; as, a title
given one by courtesy. Courtesy title, a title assumed by a person,
or popularly conceded to him, to which he has no valid claim; as, the
courtesy title of Lord prefixed to the names of the younger sons of
noblemen.

Syn.
 -- Politiness; urbanity; civility; complaisance; affability;
courteousness; elegance; refinement; courtliness; good breeding. See
Politeness.

COURTESY
Courte"sy (krt"s), n. Etym: [See the preceding word.]

Defn: An act of civility, respect, or reverence, made by women,
consisting of a slight depression or dropping of the body, with
bending of the kness. [Written also curtsy.]
The lady drops a courtesy in token of obedience, and the ceremony
proceeds as usual. Golgsmith.

COURTESY
Courte"sy, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Courtesied (-sd);; p. pr. & vb. n.
Courtesyng.]

Defn: To make a respectful salutation or movement of respect; esp.
(with reference to women), to bow the body slightly, with bending of
the knes.

COURTESY
Courte"sy, v. t.

Defn: To treat with civility. [Obs.]

COURTHOUSE
Court"house`, n.

1. A house in which established courts are held, or a house
appropriated to courts and public meetings. [U.S.]

2. A county town; -- so called in Virginia and some others of the
Southern States.
Providence, the county town of Fairfax, is unknown by that name, and
passes as Fairfax Court House. Barlett.

COURTIER
Court"ier (krt"yr), n. Etym: [From Court.]

1. One who is in attendance at the court of a prince; one who has an
appointment at court.
You know I am no courtier, nor versed in state affairs. Bacon.
This courtier got a frigate, and that a company. Macualay.

2. One who courts or solicits favor; one who flatters.
There was not among all our princes a greater courtier of the people
than Richard III. Suckling.

COURTIERY
Court"ier*y (-), n.

Defn: The manners of a courtier; courtliness. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

COURT-LEET
Court"-leet` (-lt`), n. (Eng. Law)

Defn: A court of record held once a year, in a particular hundred,
lordship, or manor, before the steward of the leet. Blackstone.

COURTLIKE
Court"like` (-lk`), a.

Defn: After the manner of a court; elegant; polite; courtly.

COURTLINESS
Court"li*ness (-l-ns), n. Etym: [From Courtly.]

Defn: The quality of being courtly; elegance or dignity of manners.

COURTLING
Court"ling (-lng), n. Etym: [Court + -ling.]

Defn: A sycophantic courtier. B. Jonson.

COURTLY
Court"ly (-l), a. Etym: [From Court.]

1. Relating or belonging to a court.

2. Elegant; polite; courtlike; flattering.
In courtly company or at my beads. Shak.

3. Disposed to favor the great; favoring the policy or party of the
court; obsequious. Macualay.

COURTLY
Court"ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of courts; politely; gracefully; elegantly.
They can produce nothing so courtly writ. Dryden

COURT-MARTIAL
Court`-mar"tial (krt`mr"shal), n.; pl. Courts-martial (k.

Defn: A court consisting of military or naval officers, for the trial
of one belonging to the army or navy, or of offenses against military
or naval law.

COURT-MARTIAL
Court`-mar"tial, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Court-martialed (-shald); p. pr.
& vb. n. Court-martialing.]

Defn: To subject to trial by a court-martial.

COURT-PLASTER
Court"-plas`ter (krt"pls`tr), n.

Defn: Sticking plaster made by coating taffeta or silk on one side
with some adhesive substance, commonly a mixture of isinglass and
glycerin.

COURTSHIP
Court"ship (krt"shp), n.

1. The act of paying court, with the intent to solicit a favor.
Swift.

2. The act of wooing in love; solicitation of woman to marriage.
This method of courtship, [by which] both sides are prepared for all
the matrimonial adventures that are to follow. Goldsmith.

3. Courtliness; elegance of manners; courtesy. [Obs.]
Trim gallants, full of courtship and of state. Shak.

4. Court policy; the character of a courtier; artifice of a court;
court-craft; finesse. [Obs.]
She [the Queen] being composed of courtship and Popery. Fuller.

COURT TENNIS
Court" ten"nis (krt" tn"ns).

Defn: See under Tennis.

COURTYARD
Court"yard (krt"yrd`), n.

Defn: A court or inclosure attached to a house.

COUSCOUS
Cous"cous` (ks"ks`), n.

Defn: A kind of food used by the natives of Western Africa, made of
millet flour with flesh, and leaves of the baobab; -- called also
lalo.

COUSCOUSOU
Cous`cou*sou" (ks`k-s"), n.

Defn: A favorite dish in Barbary. See Couscous.

COUSIN
Cous"in (kz"'n), n. Etym: [F. cousin, LL. cosinus, cusinus, contr.
from L. consobrinus the child of a mother's sister, cousin; con- +
sobrinus a cousin by the mother's side, a form derived fr. soror
(forsosor) sister. See Sister, and cf. Cozen, Coz.]

1. One collaterally related more remotely than a brother or sister;
especially, the son or daughter of an uncle or aunt.

Note: The children of brothers and sisters are usually denominated
first cousins, or cousins-german. In the second generation, they are
called second cousins. See Cater-cousin, and Quater-cousin.
Thou art, great lord, my father's sister's son, A cousin-german to
great Priam's seed. Shak.

2. A title formerly given by a king to a nobleman, particularly to
those of the council. In English writs, etc., issued by the crown, it
signifies any earl.
My noble lords and cousins, all, good morrow. Shak.

COUSIN
Cous"in, n.

Defn: Allied; akin. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COUSINAGE
Cous"in*age (-j), n. Etym: [F. cousinage, OF., also, cosinage. Cf.
Cosinage, Cozenage.]

Defn: Relationship; kinship. [Obs.] Wyclif.

COUSIN-GERMAN
Cous"in-ger"man (-jr"man), n. Etym: [Cousin + german closely akin.]

Defn: A first cousin. See Note under Cousin, 1.

COUSINHOOD
Cous"in*hood (-hd), n.

Defn: The state or condition of a cousin; also, the collective body
of cousins; kinsfolk.

COUSINLY
Cous"in*ly, a.

Defn: Like or becoming a cousin.

COUSINRY
Cous"in*ry (kz"'n-r), n.

Defn: A body or collection of cousins; the whole number of persons
who stand in the relation of cousins to a given person or persons.

COUSINSHIP
Cous"in*ship, n.

Defn: The relationship of cousins; state of being cousins;
cousinhood. G. Eliot.

COUSSINET
Cous"si*net` (ks"s-nt`), n. Etym: [F., dim. of coussin cushion. See
Cushionet.] (Arch.)
(a) A stone placed on the impost of a pier for receiving the first
stone of an arch.
(b) That part of the Ionic capital between the abacus and quarter
round, which forms the volute. Gwilt.

COUTEAU
Cou*teau" (k-t"), n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A knife; a dagger.

COUTH
Couth (kth), imp. & p. p. of Can. Etym: [See Can, and cf. Uncouth.]

Defn: Could; was able; knew or known; understood. [Obs.]
Above all other one Daniel He loveth, for he couth well Divine, that
none other couth; To him were all thing couth, As he had it of God's
grace. Gower.

COUVADE
Cou`vade" (k`vd"), n. Etym: [F., fr. couver. See Covey.]

Defn: A custom, among certain barbarous tribes, that when a woman
gives birth to a child her husband takes to his bed, as if ill.
The world-wide custom of the couvade, where at childbirth the husband
undergoes medical treatment, in many cases being put to bed for days.
Tylor.

COUVEUSE
Cou`veuse", n. [F.] (Med.)

Defn: An incubator for sickly infants, esp. those prematurely born.

COVARIANT
Co*va"ri*ant (k-v"r-ant), n. (Higher Alg.)

Defn: A function involving the coefficients and the variables of a
quantic, and such that when the quantic is lineally transformed the
same function of the new variables and coefficients shall be equal to
the old function multiplied by a factor. An invariant is a like
function involving only the coefficients of the quantic.

COVE
Cove (kv), n. Etym: [AS. cofa room; akin to G. koben pigsty, orig.,
hut, Icel kofi hut, and perh. to E. cobalt.]

1. A retired nook; especially, a small, sheltered inlet, creek, or
bay; a recess in the shore.
Vessels which were in readiness for him within secret coves and
nooks. Holland.

2. A strip of prairie extending into woodland; also, a recess in the
side of a mountain. [U.S.]

3. (Arch.)
(a) A concave molding.
(b) A member, whose section is a concave curve, used especially with
regard to an inner roof or ceiling, as around a skylight.

COVE
Cove, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coved (kvd); p. pr. & vb. n. Coving.]
(Arch.)

Defn: To arch over; to build in a hollow concave form; to make in the
form of a cove.
The mosques and other buildings of the Arabians are rounded into
domes and coved roofs. H. Swinburne.
Coved ceiling, a ceiling, the part of which next the wail is
constructed in a cove.
 -- Coved vault, a vault composed of four coves meeting in a central
point, and therefore the reverse of a groined vault.

COVE
Cove, v. t. Etym: [CF. F. couver, It. covare. See Covey.]

Defn: To brood, cover, over, or sit over, as birds their eggs. [Obs.]
Not being able to cove or sit upon them [eggs], she [the female
tortoise] bestoweth them in the gravel. Holland.

COVE
Cove, n. Etym: [A gypsy word, covo that man, covi that woman.]

Defn: A boy or man of any age or station. [Slang]
There's a gentry cove here. Wit's Recreations (1654).
Now, look to it, coves, that all the beef and drink Be not filched
from us. Mrs. Browning.

COVELLINE; COVELLITE
Co*vel"line (k-vl"ln), Co*vel"lite (-lt), n. Etym: [After Covelli,
the discoverer.] (Min.)

Defn: A native sulphide of copper, occuring in masses of a dark blue
color; -- hence called indigo copper.

COVENABLE
Cov"e*na*ble (kv"-n-b'l), a. Etym: [OF. covenable, F. convenable. See
Covenant.]

Defn: Fit; proper; suitable. [Obs.] "A covenable day." Wyclif (Mark
vi. 21).

COVENABLY
Cov"e*na*bly (kv"-n-bly), adv.

Defn: Fitly; suitably. [Obs.] "Well and covenably." Chaucer.

COVENANT
Cov"e*nant (kv"-nant), n. Etym: [OF. covenant, fr. F. & OF. convenir
to agree, L. convenire. See Convene.]

1. A mutual agreement of two or more persons or parties, or one of
the stipulations in such an agreement.
Then Jonathan and David made a covenant. 1 Sam. xviiii. 3.
Let there be covenants drawn between us. Shak.
If we conclude a peace, It shall be with such strict and severe
covenants As little shall the Frenchmen gain thereby. Shak.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: An agreement made by the Scottish Parliament in 1638, and by
the English Parliament in 1643, to preserve the reformed religion in
Scotland, and to extirpate popery and prelacy; -- usually called the
"Solemn League and Covenant."
He [Wharton] was born in the days of the Covenant, and was the heir
of a covenanted house. Macualay.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: The promises of God as revealed in the Scriptures, conditioned
on certain terms on the part of man, as obedience, repentance, faith,
etc.
I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after
thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God
unto thee, and to thy seed after thee. Gen. xvii. 7.

4. A solemn compact between members of a church to maintain its
faith, discipline, etc.

5. (Law)
(a) An undertaking, on sufficient consideration, in writing and under
seal, to do or to refrain from some act or thing; a contract; a
stipulation; also, the document or writing containing the terms of
agreement.
(b) A form of action for the violation of a promise or contract under
seal.

Syn.
 -- Agreement; contract; compact; bargain; arrangement; stipulation.
 -- Covenant, Contract, Compact, Stipulation. These words all denote
a mutual agreement between two parties. Covenant is frequently used
in a religious sense; as, the covenant of works or of grace; a church
covenant; the Solemn League and Covenant. Contract is the word most
used in the business of life. Crabb and Taylor are wrong in saying
that a contract must always be in writing. There are oral and implied
contracts as well as written ones, and these are equally enforced by
law. In legal usage, the word covenant has an important place as
connected with contracts. A compact is only a stronger and more
solemn contract. The term is chiefly applied to political alliances.
Thus, the old Confederation was a compact between the States. Under
the present Federal Constitution, no individual State can, without
consent of Congress, enter into a compact with any other State or
foreign power. A stipulation is one of the articles or provisions of
a contract.

COVENANT
Cov"e*nant (kv"-nnt), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Covenanted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Covenanting.]

Defn: To agree (with); to enter into a formal agreement; to bind
one's self by contract; to make a stipulation.
Jupiter covenanted with him, that it should be hot or cold, wet or
dry, . . . as the tenant should direct. L'Estrange.
And they covenanted with him for thyrty pieces of silver. Matt. xxvi.
15.

Syn.
 -- To agree; contract; bargain; stipulate.

COVENANT
Cov"e*nant, v. t.

Defn: To grant or promise by covenant.
My covenant of peace that I covenanted with you. Wyclif.

COVENANTEE
Cov`e*nan*tee" (kv`-nan-t"), n. (Law)

Defn: The person in whose favor a covenant is made.

COVENANTER
Cov"e*nant*er (kv"-nnt-r), n.

1. One who makes a covenant.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who subscribed and defended the "Solemn League and
Covenant." See Covenant.

COVENANTING
Cov"e*nant*ing, a.

Defn: Belonging to a covenant. Specifically, belonging to the Scotch
Covenanters.
Be they covenanting traitors, Or the brood of false Argyle Aytoun.

COVENANTOR
Cov"e*nant*or` (-r`), n. (Law)

Defn: The party who makes a covenant. Burrill.

COVENOUS
Cov"e*nous (kv"-ns), a.

Defn: See Covinous, and Covin.

COVENT
Cov"ent (kv"ent), n. Etym: [OF. covent, F. couvent. See Convent.]

Defn: A convent or monastery. [Obs.] Bale. Covent Garden, a large
square in London, so called because originally it was the garden of a
monastery.

COVENTRY
Cov"en*try (kv"en-tr), n.

Defn: A town in the county of Warwick, England. To send to Coventry,
to exclude from society; to shut out from social intercourse, as for
ungentlemanly conduct.
 -- Coventry blue, blue thread of a superior dye, made at Coventry,
England, and used for embroidery.

COVER
Cov"er (kv"r), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Covered (-rd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Covering.] Etym: [OF. covrir, F. couvrir, fr. L. cooperire; co- +
operire to cover; probably fr. ob towards, over + the root appearing
in aperire to open. Cf. Aperient, Overt, Curfew.]

1. To overspread the surface of (one thing) with another; as, to
cover wood with paint or lacquer; to cover a table with a cloth.

2. To envelop; to clothe, as with a mantle or cloak.
And with the majesty of darkness round Covers his throune. Milton.
All that beauty than doth cover thee. Shak.

3. To invest (one's self with something); to bring upon (one's self);
as, he covered himself with glory.
The powers that covered themselves with everlasting infamy by the
partition of Poland. Brougham.

4. To hide sight; to conceal; to cloak; as, the snemy were covered
from our sight by the woods.
A cloud covered the mount. Exod. xxiv. 15.
In vain shou striv'st to cover shame with shame. Milton.

5. To brood or sit on; to incubate.
While the hen is covering her eggs, the male . . . diverts her with
his songs. Addison.

6. To overwhelm; to spread over.
The waters returned and covered the chariots and the horsemen. Ex.
xiv. 28.

7. To shelter, as from evil or danger; to protect; to defend; as, the
cavalry covered the retreat.
His calm and blameless life Does with substantial blessedness abound,
And the soft wings of peace cover him round. Cowley.

8. To remove from remembrance; to put away; to remit."Blessed is he
whose is covered." Ps. xxxii. 1.

9. To extend over; to be sufficient for; to comprehend, include, or
embrace; to account for or solve; to counterbalance; as, a mortgage
which fully covers a sum loaned on it; a law which covers all
possible cases of a crime; receipts than do not cover expenses.

10. To put the usual covering or headdress on.
Cover thy head . . . ; nay, prithee, be covered. Shak.

11. To copulate with (a female); to serve; as. a horse covers a mare;
-- said of the male. To cover ground or distance, to pass over; as,
the rider covered the ground in an hour.
 -- To cover one's short contracts (Stock Exchange), to buy stock
when the market rises, as a dealer who has sold short does in order
to protect himself.
 -- Covering party (Mil.), a detachment of troops sent for the
protection of another detachment, as of men working in the trenches.
 -- To cover into, to transfer to; as, to cover into the treasury.

Syn.
 -- To shelter; screen; shield; hide; overspread.

COVER
Cov"er (kv"r), n.

1. Anything which is laid, set, or spread, upon, about, or over,
another thing; an envelope; a lid; as, the cover of a book.

2. Anything which weils or conceals; a screen; disguise; a cloack.
"Under cover of the night." Macualay.
A hendsome cover for imperfections. Collier.

3. Shelter; protection; as, the troops fought under cover of the
batteries; the woods afforded a good cover.
Being compelled to lodge in the field . . . whilst his army was under
cover, they might be forced to retire. Clarendon.

4. (Huntig)

Defn: The woods, underbrush, etc., which shelter and conceal game;
covert; as, to beat a cover; to ride to cover.

5. That portion of a slate, tile, or shingle, which is hidden by the
overlap of the course above. Knight.

6. (Steam Engine)

Defn: The lap of a slide valve.

7. Etym: [Cf. F. couvert.]

Defn: A tablecloth, and the other table furniture; esp., the table
furniture for the use of one person at a meal; as, covers were laid
for fifty guests. To break cover, to start from a covert or lair; --
said of game.
 -- Under cover, in an envelope, or within a letter; -- said of a
written message.
Letters . . . dispatched under cover to her ladyship. Thackeray.

COVER
Cov"er, v. i.

Defn: To spread a table for a meal; to prepare a banquet. [Obs.]
Shak.

COVERAGE
Cov"er*age, n.

Defn: The aggregate of risks covered by the terms of a contract of
insurance.

COVERCHIEF
Cov"er*chief (chf), n. Etym: [See Kerchef.]

Defn: A covering for the head. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COVERCLE
Cov"er*cle (kv"r-k'l), n. Etym: [OF. covercle, F. couvercle, fr. L.
coöperculum fr. coöperire. See cover]

Defn: A small cover; a lid. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

COVER CROP
Cov"er crop.

Defn: A catch crop planted, esp. in orchards. as a protection to the
soil in winter, as well as for the benefit of the soil when plowed
under in spring.

COVERED
Cov"ered (kv"rd), a.

Defn: Under cover; screened; sheltered; not exposed; hidden. Covered
way (Fort.), a corridor or banquette along the top of the
counterscarp and covered by an embankment whose slope forms the
glacis. It gives the garrisonn an open line of communication around
the works, and a standing place beyond the ditch. See Illust. of
Ravelin.

COVERER
Cov"er*er (-r), n.

Defn: One who, or that which, covers.

COVERING
Cov"er*ing, n.

Defn: Anything which covers or conceals, as a roof, a screen, a
wrapper, clothing, etc.
Noah removed the covering of the ark. Gen. viii. 13.
They cause the naked to lodge without clothing, that they have no
covering in the cold. Job. xxiv. 7.
A covering over the well's mouth. 2 Sam. xvii. 19.

COVERLET
Cov"er*let (kv"r-lt), n. Etym: [F. couvre-lit; couvrir to cover + lit
bed, fr. L. lectus bed. See Cover.]

Defn: The uppermost cover of a bed or of any piece of furniture.
Lay her in lilies and in violets . . . And odored sheets and arras
coverlets. Spenser.

COVERLID
Cov"er*lid (-ld), n.

Defn: A coverlet.
All the coverlid was clocth of gold. Tennyson.

COVER-POINT
Cov"er-point` (-point!), n.

Defn: The fielder in the games of cricket and lacrosse who supports
"point."

COVERSED SINE
Co*versed" sine (k-vrst" sn`). Etym: [Co- (=co- in co- sine) + versed
sine.] (Geom.)

Defn: The versed sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See
Illust. of Functions.

COVER-SHAME
Cov"er-shame` (-shm`), n.

Defn: Something used to conceal infamy. [Obs.] Dryden.

COVERSIDE
Cov"er*side`, n.

Defn: A region of country having covers; a hunting country.

COVERT
Cov"ert (kv"rt), a. Etym: [OF. covert, F. couvert, p. p. of couvrir.
See Cover, v. t.]

1. Covered over; private; hid; secret; disguised.
How covert matters may be best disclosed. Shak.
Whether of open war or covert guile. Milton

2. Sheltered; not open or exposed; retired; protected; as, a covert
nook. Wordsworth.
Of either side the green, to plant a covert alley. Bacon.

3. (Law)

Defn: Under cover, authority or protection; as, a feme covert, a
married woman who is considered as being under the protection and
control of her husband. Covert way, (Fort.) See Covered way, under
Covered.

Syn.
 -- Hidden; secret; private; covered; disguised; insidious;
concealed. See Hidden.

COVERT
Cov"ert, n. Etym: [OF. See Covert, a.]

1. A place that covers and protects; a shelter; a defense.
A tabernacle . . . for a covert from storm. Is. iv. 6.
The highwayman has darted from his covered by the wayside. Prescott.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. couverte.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the special feathers covering the bases of the quills of
the wings and tail of a bird. See Illust. of Bird.

COVERT BARON
Cov"ert bar`on (br`n). (Law)

Defn: Under the protection of a husband; married. Burrill.

COVERTLY
Cov"ert*ly, adv.

Defn: Secretly; in private; insidiously.

COVERTNESS
Cov"ert*ness (kv"rt-ns), n.

Defn: Secrecy; privacy. [R.]

COVERTURE
Cov"er*ture (kv"r-tr; 135), n. Etym: [OF. coverture,F.couverture.]

1. Covering; shelter; defence; hiding.
Protected by walls or other like coverture. Woodward.
Beatrice, who even now Is couched in the woodbine coverture. Shak.

2. (Law)

Defn: The condition of a woman during marriage, because she is
considered under the cover, influence, power, and protection of her
husband, and therefore called a feme covert, or femme couverte.

COVET
Cov"et (kv"t), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Covered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Coveting.] Etym: [OF. coveitier, covoitier, F. convoiter, from a
derivative fr. L. cupere to desire; cf. Skr. kup to become excited.
Cf. Cupidity.]

1. To wish for with eagerness; to desire possession of; -- used in a
good sen
Covet earnestly the best gifts. 1. Cor. xxii. 31.
If it be a sin to covet honor, I am the most offending soul alive.
Shak.

2. To long for inordinately or unlawfully; to hanker after (something
forbidden).
Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house. Ex. xx. 17.

Syn: To long for; desire; hanker after; crave.

COVET
Cov"et, v. i.

Defn: To have or indulge inordinate desire.
Which [money] while some coveted after, they have erred from the
faith. 1 Tim. vi. 10.

COVETABLE
Cov"et*a*ble (kv"t--b'l), a.

Defn: That may be coveted; desirable.

COVETER
Cov"et*er (-r), n.

Defn: One who covets.

COVETISE
Cov"et*ise (-s), n. Etym: [OF. coveitise, F. convoitise. See Covet,
v. t. ]

Defn: Avarice. [Obs.] Spenser.

COVETIVENESS
Cov"et*ive*ness (-v-), n. (Phren.)

Defn: Acquisitiveness.

COVETOUS
Cov"et*ous (kv"t-s), a. Etym: [OF. coveitos, F. convoiteux. See
Covet, v. t.]

1. Very desirous; eager to obtain; -- used in a good sense. [Archaic]
Covetous of wisdom and fair virtue. Shak.
Covetous death bereaved us all, To aggrandize one funeral. Emerson.

2. Inordinately desirous; excessively eager to obtain and possess
(esp. money); avaricious; -- in a bad sense.
The covetous person lives as if the world were madealtogether for
him, and not he for the world. South.

Syn.
 -- Avaricious; parsimonious; penurious; misrely; niggardly. See
Avaricious.

COVETOUSLY
Cov"et*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a covetous manner.

COVETOUSNESS
Cov"et*ous*ness, n.

1. Strong desire. [R.]
When workmen strive to do better than well, They do confound their
skill in covetousness. Shak.

2. A strong or inordinate desire of obtaining and possessing some
supposed good; excessive desire for riches or money; -- in a bad
sense.
Covetousness, by a greed of getting more, deprivess itself of the
true end of getting. Sprat.

Syn.
 -- Avarice; cupidity; eagerness.

COVEY
Cov"ey (kv"), n. Etym: [OF. cov, F. couv, fr. cover, F. couver, to
sit or brood on, fr. L. cubare to lie down; cf. E. incubate. See
Cubit, and cf. Cove to brood.]

1. A brood or hatch of birds; an old bird with her brood of young;
hence, a small flock or number of birds together; -- said of game;
as, a covey of partridges. Darwin.

2. A company; a bevy; as, a covey of girls. Addison.

COVEY
Cov"ey, v. i.

Defn: To brood; to incubate. [Obs.]
[Tortoises] covey a whole year before they hatch. Holland.

COVEY
Cov"ey, n.

Defn: A pantry. [Prov. Eng.] Parker.

COVIN
Cov"in (kv"n), n. Etym: [OF. covine, covaine, fr. covenir to agree.
See Covenant.]

1. (Law)

Defn: A collusive agreement between two or more persons to prejudice
a third.

2. Deceit; fraud; artifice. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COVING
Cov"ing, n. (Arch.)
 (a) A cove or series of coves, as the concaved surface under the
overhang of a projecting upper story.
 (b) The splayed jambs of a flaring fireplace.

COVINOUS
Cov"in*ous (kv"n-s), a. (Law)

Defn: Deceitful; collusive; fraudulent; dishonest.

COW
Cow (kou), n. Etym: [See Cowl a hood.]

Defn: A chimney cap; a cowl

COW
Cow, n.; pl. Cows (kouz); old pl. Kine (k. Etym: [OE. cu, cou, AS. c;
akin to D. koe, G. kuh, OHG. kuo, Icel. k, Dan. & Sw. ko, L. bos ox,
cow, Gr. g. sq. root223. Cf. Beef, Bovine, Bucolic, Butter, Nylghau.]

1. The mature female of bovine animals.

2. The female of certain large mammals, as whales, seals, etc.

COW
Cow, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cowed (koud);; p. pr. & vb. n. Cowing.]
Etym: [Cf. Icel. kuga, Sw. kufva to check, subdue, Dan. kue. Cf.
Cuff, v. t.]

Defn: To depress with fear; to daunt the spirits or courage of; to
overawe.
To vanquish a people already cowed. Shak.
THe French king was cowed. J. R. Green.

COW
Cow, n. Etym: [Prob. from same root as cow, v.t.] (Mining)

Defn: A wedge, or brake, to check the motion of a machine or car; a
chock. Knight.

COWAGE
Cow"age (kou1j), n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Cowhage.

COWALKER
Co`walk"er, n.

Defn: A phantasmic or "astral" body deemed to be separable from the
physical body and capable of acting independently; a doppelgänger.

COWAN
Cow"an (kou"an), n. Etym: [Cf. OF. couillon a coward, a cullion.]

Defn: One who works as a mason without having served a regular
apprenticeship. [Scot.]

Note: Among Freemasons, it is a cant term for pretender, interloper.

COWARD
Cow"ard (kou"rd), a. Etym: [OF. couard, coard, coart, n. and adj., F.
couard, fr. OF. coe, coue, tail, F. queue (fr. L. coda, a form of
cauda tail) + -ard; orig., short-tailed, as an epithet of the hare,
or perh., turning tail, like a scared dog. Cf. Cue, Queue, Caudal.]

1. (Her.)

Defn: Borne in the escutcheon with his tail doubled between his legs;
-- said of a lion.

2. Destitute of courage; timid; cowardly.
Fie, coward woman, and soft-hearted wretch. Shak.

3. Belonging to a coward; proceeding from, or expressive of, base
fear or timidity.
He raised the house with loud and coward cries. Shak.
Invading fears repel my coward joy. Proir.

COWARD
Cow"ard, n.

Defn: A person who lacks courage; a timid or pusillanimous person; a
poltroon.
A fool is nauseous, but a coward worse. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Craven; poltroon; dastard.

COWARD
Cow"ard, v. t.

Defn: To make timoroys; to frighten. [Obs.]
That which cowardeth a man's heart. Foxe.

COWARDICE
Cow"ard*ice (-s), n. Etym: [F. couardise, fr. couard. See Coward.]

Defn: Want of courage to face danger; extreme timidity;
pusillanimity; base fear of danger or hurt; lack of spirit.
The cowardice of doing wrong. Milton.
Moderation was despised as cowardice. Macualay.

COWARDIE
Cow"ard*ie (kou"rd-), n. Etym: [OF. couardie.]

Defn: Cowardice. [Obs.]

COWARDISH
Cow"ard*ish, a.

Defn: Cowardly. [Obs.] " A base and a cowardish mind." Robynson
(More's Utopia).

COWARDIZE
Cow"ard*ize (-, v. t.

Defn: To render cowardly. [Obs.]
God . . . cowardizeth . . . insolent spirits. Bp. Hall.

COWARDLINESS
Cow"ard*li*ness (-l-ns), n.

Defn: Cowardice.

COWARDLY
Cow"ard*ly, a.

1. Wanting courage; basely or weakly timid or fearful; pusillanimous;
spiritless.
The cowardly rascals that ran from the battle. Shak.

2. Proceeding from fear of danger or other consequences; befitting a
coward; dastardly; base; as, cowardly malignity. Macualay.
The cowardly rashness of those who dare not look danger in the face.
Burke.

Syn.
 -- Timid; fearful; timorous; dastardly; pusillanimous; recreant;
craven; faint-hearted; chicken-hearted; white-livered.

COWARDLY
Cow"ard*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a coward. Spenser.

COWARDSHIP
Cow"ard*ship, n.

Defn: Cowardice. [Obs.] Shak.

COWBANE
Cow"bane` (kou"bn`), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A poisonous umbelliferous plant; in England, the Cicuta virosa;
in the United States, the Cicuta maculata and the Archemora rigida.
See Water hemlock.

COWBERRY
Cow"ber`ry (-br`r), n.; pl. Cowberries (-r. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Vaccinium (V. Vitis-id), which bears acid red
berries which are sometimes used in cookery; -- locally called
mountain cranberry.

COWBIRD
Cow"bird` (-brd`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cow blackbird (Molothrus ater), an American starling. Like
the European cuckoo, it builds no nest, but lays its eggs in the
nests of other birds; -- so called because frequently associated with
cattle.

COWBLAKES
Cow"blakes` (-blks`), n. pl.

Defn: Dried cow dung used as fuel.[Prov. Eng.] Simmonds.

COWBOY
Cow"boy` (-boi`), n.

1. A cattle herder; a drover; specifically, one of an adventurous
class of herders and drovers on the plains of the Western and
Southwestern United States.

2. One of the marauders who, in the Revolutionary War infested the
neutral ground between the American and British lines, and committed
depredations on the Americans.

COWCATCHER
Cow"catch`er (-kch`r), n.

Defn: A strong inclined frame, usually of wrought-iron bars, in front
of a locomotive engine, for catching or throwing off obstructions on
a railway, as cattle; the pilot. [U.S.]

COWDIE
Cow"die (kou"d), n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Kauri.

COWER
Cow"er (-r), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cowered (-rd);p. pr. & vb. n.
Cowering.] Etym: [Cf. Icel. kera to doze, liequiet, Sw. kura, Dan.
kure, G. kauern to cower, W. cwrian.]

Defn: To stoop by bending the knees; to crouch; to squat; hence, to
quail; to sink through fear.
Our dame sits cowering o'er a kitchen fire. Dryden.
Like falcons, cowering on the nest. Goldsmith.

COWER
Cow"er (kou"r), v. t.

Defn: To cherish with care. [Obs.]

COWFISH
Cow"fish` (-fch`), n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The grampus.
(b) A California dolphin (Tursiops Gillii).
(c) A marine plectognath fish (Ostracoin quadricorne, and allied
species), having two projections, like horns, in front; -- called
also cuckold, coffer fish, trunkfish.

COWHAGE
Cow"hage (kou"hj), n. Etym: [Cf. Hind. kaw, ko.] (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous climbing plant of the genus Mucuna, having crooked
pods covered with sharp hairs, which stick to the fingers, causing
intolerable itching. The spiculæ are sometimes used in medicine as a
mechanical vermifuge. [Written also couhage, cowage, and cowitch.]

COWHEARTED
Cow"heart`ed (-hrt`d), a.

Defn: Cowardly.
The Lady Powis . . . patted him with her fan, and called him a
cowhearted fellow. R. North.

COWHERD
Cow"herd` (-hrd`), n. Etym: [AS. c; c cow + hyrde a herder.]

Defn: One whose occupation is to tend cows.

COWHIDE
Cow"hide` (-hd`), n.

1. The hide of a cow.

2. Leather made of the hide of a cow.

3. A coarse whip made of untanned leather.

COWHIDE
Cow"hide`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cowhided; p. pr. & vb. n. Cowhiding.]

Defn: To flog with a cowhide.

COWISH
Cow"ish (kou"sh), a. Etym: [From Cow, v. t.]

Defn: Timorous; fearful; cowardly. [R.] Shak.

COWISH
Cow"ish, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant (Peucedanum Cous) with edible tuberous
roots, found in Oregon. [Written also cous.]

COWITCH
Cow"itch (kou"ch; 224), n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Cowhage.

COWL
Cowl (koul), n. Etym: [AS cuhle, cugle, cugele; cf. dial. G. kogel,
gugel, OF. coule, goule; all fr. LL. cuculla, cucullus, fr. L.
cucullus cap, hood; perh. akin to celare to conceal, cella cell. Cf.
Cucullate.]

1. A monk's hood; -- usually attached to the gown. The nname was also
applied to the hood and garment together.
What differ more, you cry, than crown and cowl Pope.

2. A cowl-shaped cap, commonly turning with the wind, used to improve
the draft of a chimney, ventilatingshaft, etc.

3. A wire cap for the smokestack of a locomotive.

COWL
Cowl, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. cuvele, cuvel, dim. of F. cuve tub, vat, fr.
L. cupa. See Cup.]

Defn: A vessel carried on a pole between two persons, for conveyance
of water. Johnson.

COWLED
Cowled (kould), a.

Defn: Wearing a cowl; hooded; as, a cowled monk. "That cowled
churchman." Emerson.

COWLEECH
Cow"leech` (kou"lch`), n. Etym: [2d cow + leech a physician.]

Defn: One who heals disease of cows; a cow doctor.

COWLEECHING
Cow"leech`ing, n.

Defn: Healing the distemper of cows.

COWLICK
Cow"lick` (-lk`), n.

Defn: A tuft of hair turned up or awry (usually over the forehead),
as if licked by a cow.

COWLIKE
Cow"like` (-lk`), a.

Defn: Resembling a cow.
With cowlike udders and with oxlike eyes. Pope.

COWLSTAFF
Cowl"staff` (koul"stf`), n. Etym: [Cowl a vessel + staff.]

Defn: A staff or pole on which a vessel is supported between two
persons. Suckling.

COWORKER
Co`work"er (k`wrk"r), n.

Defn: One who works with another; a co

COW PARSLEY
Cow" pars`ley (kou` prs`l). (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant of the genus Chærophyllum (C. temulum
and C. sylvestre).

COW PARSNIP
Cow" pars`nip (-np). (Bot.)

Defn: A coarse umbelliferous weed of the genus Heracleum (H.
sphondylium in England, and H. lanatum in America).

COWPEA
Cow"pea` (-p`), n.

Defn: The seed of one or more leguminous plants of the genus
Dolichos; also, the plant itself. Many varieties are cultivated in
the southern part of the United States.

COWPER'S GLANDS
Cow"per's glands` (kou"prz glndz`). Etym: [After the discoverer,
William Cowper, an English surgeon.] (Anat.)

Defn: Two small glands discharging into the male urethra.

COW-PILOT
Cow"-pi`lot (kou"p`lt), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A handsomely banded, coral-reef fish, of Florida and the West
Indies (Pomacentrus saxatilis); -- called also mojarra.

COWPOCK
Cow"pock` (-pk`), n.

Defn: See Cowpox. Dunglison.

COWPOX
Cow"pox` (--pks`), n. (Med.)

Defn: A pustular eruptive disease of the cow, which, when
communicated to the human system, as by vaccination, protects from
the smallpox; vaccinia; -- called also kinepox, cowpock, and
kinepock. Dunglison.

COWQUAKE
Cow"quake` (-kwk`), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants (Briza); quaking grass.

COWRIE
Cow"rie (-r), n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Kauri.

COWRIE; COWRY
Cow"rie Cow"ry (kou"r), n.; pl. Cowries (-r. Etym: [Hind. kaur.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine shell of the genus Cypræa.

Note: There are numerous species, many of them ornamental. Formerly
C. moneta and several other species were largely used as money in
Africa and some other countries, and they are still so used to some
extent. The value is always trifling, and varies at different places.

COWSLIP
Cow"slip` (-slp`), n. Etym: [AS. c, c, prob. orig., cow's droppings.
Cf. Slop, n.] (Bot.)

1. A common flower in England (Primula veris) having yellow blossoms
and appearing in early spring. It is often cultivated in the United
States.

2. In the United States, the marsh marigold (Caltha palustris),
appearing in wet places in early spring and often used as a pot herb.
It is nearer to a buttercup than to a true cowslip. See Illust. of
Marsh marigold. American cowslip (Bot.), a pretty flower of the West
(Dodecatheon Meadia), belonging to the same order (Primulaceæ) with
the English cowslip.
 -- French cowslip (Bot.), bear's-ear (Primula Auricula).

COWSLIPPED
Cow"slipped` (-slpt`), a.

Defn: Adorned with cowslips. "Cowslipped lawns." Keats.

COW'S LUNGWORT
Cow's" lung"wort` (kouz" lng"wrt`).

Defn: Mullein.

COW TREE
Cow" tree` (kou" tr`). Etym: [Cf. SP. palo de vaca.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree (Galactodendron utile or Brosimum Galactodendron) of
South America, which yields, on incision, a nourishing fluid,
resembling milk.

COWWEED
Cow"weed" (-wEd`),, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Cow parsley.

COWWHEAT
Cow"wheat` (-hwt`), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A weed of the genus Melampyrum, with black seeds, found on
European wheatfields.

COX
Cox (kks), n. Etym: [OE. cokes. Cf. Coax.]

Defn: A coxcomb; a simpleton; a gull. [Obs.]
Go; you're a brainless cox, a toy, a fop. Beau. & Fl.

COXA
Cox"a (kks"), n. Etym: [L., the hip.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The first joint of the leg of an insect or crustacean.

COXALGIA; COXALGY
Cox*al"gi*a (-l"j-), Cox"al`gy (kks"l`j), n. Etym: [NL. coxalgia, fr.
L. coxa hip. + Gr. coxalgie.] (Med.)

Defn: Pain in the hip.

COXCOMB
Cox"comb` (kks"km`), n. Etym: [A corrupted spelling of cock's comb.]

1.
(a) A strip of red cloth notched like the comb of a cock, which
licensed jesters formerly wore in their caps.
(b) The cap itself.

2. The top of the head, or the head itself.
We will belabor you a little better, And beat a little more care into
your coxcombs. Beau & Fl.

3. A vain, showy fellow; a conceited, silly man, fond of display; a
superficial pretender to knowledge or accomplishments; a fop.
Fond to be seen, she kept a bevy Of powdered coxcombs at her levee.
Goldsmith.
Some are bewildered in the maze of schools, And some made coxcombs,
nature meant but fools. Pope.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several plants of different genera, but
particularly to Celosia cristata, or garden cockscomb. Same as
Cockscomb.

COXCOMBICAL
Cox*comb"ic*al (kks-km"-kal), a.

Defn: Befitting or indicating a coxcomb; like a coxcomb; foppish;
conceited.
 -- Cox*comb"ic*al*ly, adv.
Studded all over in coxcombical fashion with little brass nails. W.
Irving.

COXCOMBLY
Cox"comb"ly (kks"km`l), a.

Defn: like a coxcomb. [Obs.] "You coxcombly ass, you!" Beau & Fl.

COXCOMBRY
Cox"comb`ry (-r), n.

Defn: The manners of a coxcomb; foppishness.

COXCOMICAL
Cox*com"ic*al (kks-km"-kal), a.

Defn: Coxcombical. [R.]

COXCOMICALLY
Cox*com"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Conceitedly. [R.]

COXSWAIN
Cox"swain` (kk"swn, Colloq. kk"s'n), n.

Defn: See Cockswain.

COY
Coy (koi), a. Etym: [OE. coi quiet, still, OF. coi, coit, fr.L.
quietus quiet, p. p. of quiescere to rest, quie rest; prob. akin to
E. while. See While, and cf. Quiet, Quit, Quite.]

1. Quiet; still. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Shrinking from approach or familiarity; reserved; bashful; shy;
modest; -- usually applied to women, sometimes with an implication of
coquetry.
Coy, and difficult to win. Cowper.
Coy and furtive graces. W. Irving.
Nor the coy maid, half willings to be pressed, Shall kiss the cup, to
pass it to the rest. Goldsmith.

3. Soft; gentle; hesitating.
Enforced hate, Instead of love's coy touch, shall rudely tear thee.
Shak.

Syn.
 -- Shy; shriking; reserved; modest; bashful; backward; distant.

COY
Coy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coyed (koid); p. pr. & vb. n. Coying.]

1. To allure; to entice; to decoy. [Obs.]
A wiser generation, who have the art to coy the fonder sort into
their nets. Bp. Rainbow.

2. To caress with the hand; to stroke.
Come sit thee down upon this flowery bed, While I thy amiable cheeks
do coy. Shak.

COY
Coy, v. i.

1. To behave with reserve or coyness; to shrink from approach or
familiarity. [Obs.]
Thus to coy it, With one who knows you too! Rowe.

2. To make difficulty; to be unwilling. [Obs.]
If he coyed To hear Cominius speak, I 'll keep at home. Shak.

COYISH
Coy"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat coy or reserved. Warner.

COYLY
Coy"ly, adv.

Defn: In a coy manner; with reserve.

COYNESS
Coy"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being coy; feigned o
When the kind nymph would coyness feign, And hides but to be found
again. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Reserve; shrinking; shyness; backwardness; modesty; bashfulness.

COYOTE
Coy"o*te (k"-t or k"t), n. Etym: [Spanish Amer., fr. Mexican coyotl.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A carnivorous animal (Canis latrans), allied to the dog, found
in the western part of North America; -- called also prairie wolf.
Its voice is a snapping bark, followed by a prolonged, shrill howl.

COYOTE STATE
Coyote State.

Defn: South Dakota; -- a nickname.

COYOTILLO
Co`yo*til"lo, n. [Mex. Sp. dim. See Coyote.]

Defn: A low rhamnaceous shrub (Karwinskia humboldtiana) of the
southwestern United States and Mexico. Its berries are said to be
poisonous to the coyote.

COYPU
Coy"pu (koi"p), n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American rodent (Myopotamus coypus), allied to the
beaver. It produces a valuable fur called nutria. [Written also
coypou.]

COYSTREL
Coys"trel (kois"trl), n.

Defn: Same as Coistril.

COZ
Coz (kz), n.

Defn: A contraction of cousin. Shak.

COZEN
Coz"en (kz"'n), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cozened (-'nd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cozening (-'n-ng). ] Etym: [From cousin, hence, literally, to deceive
through pretext of relationship, F. cousiner.]

Defn: To cheat; to defrand; to beguile; to deceive, usually by small
arts, or in a pitiful way.
He had cozened the world by fine phrases. Macualay.
Children may be cozened into a knowledge of the letters. Locke.
Goring loved no man so well but that he would cozen him, and expose
him to public mirth for having been cozened. Clarendon.

COZEN
Coz"en, v. i.

Defn: To deceive; to cheat; to act deceitfully.
Some cogging,cozening slave. Shak.

COZENAGE
Coz"en*age (-j), n. Etym: [See Cozen, and cf. Cousinage.]

Defn: The art or practice of cozening; artifice; fraud. Shak.

COZENER
Coz"en*er (kz"'n-r), n.

Defn: One who cheats or defrauds.

COZIER
Co*zier (k"zhr), n.

Defn: See Cosier.

COZILY
Co"zi*ly (k"z-l), adv.

Defn: Snugly; comfortably.

COZINESS
Co"zi*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being cozy.

COZY
Co"zy (k"z), a. [Compar. Cozier (-z-r); superl. Coziest.] Etym: [Cf.
Scot. cosie, cozie, prob. from Gael. cosach abounding in hollows, or
cosagach full of holes or crevices, snug, sheltered, from cos a
hollow, a crevice.]

1. Snug; comfortable; easy; contented. [Written also cosey and cosy.]

2. Etym: [Cf. F. causer to chat, talk.]

Defn: Chatty; talkative; sociable; familiar. [Eng.]

COZY
Co"zy, n. Etym: [See Cozy,a.]

Defn: A wadded covering for a teakettle or other vessel to keep the
contents hot.

CRAB
Crab (krb), n. Etym: [AS. crabba; akin to D. krab, G. krabbe, krebs,
Icel. krabbi, Sw. krabba, Dan. krabbe, and perh. to E. cramp. Cf.
Crawfish.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the brachyuran Crustacea. They are mostly marine, and
usually have a broad, short body, covered with a strong shell or
carapace. The abdomen is small and curled up beneath the body.

Note: The name is applied to all the Brachyura, and to certain
Anomura, as the hermit crabs. Formerly, it was sometimes applied to
Crustacea in general. Many species are edible, the blue crab of the
Atlantic coast being one of the most esteemed. The large European
edible crab is Cancer padurus. Soft-shelled crabs are blue crabs that
have recently cast their shells. See Cancer; also, Box crab, Fiddler
crab, Hermit crab, Spider crab, etc., under Box, Fiddler. etc.

2. The zodiacal constellation Cancer.

3. Etym: [See Crab, a.] (Bot.)

Defn: A crab apple; -- so named from its harsh taste.
When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl, Then nightly sings the staring
owl. Shak.

4. A cudgel made of the wood of the crab tree; a crabstick. [Obs.]
Garrick.

5. (Mech.)
(a) A movable winch or windlass with powerful gearing, used with
derricks, etc.
(b) A form of windlass, or geared capstan, for hauling ships into
dock, etc.
(c) A machine used in ropewalks to stretch the yarn.
(d) A claw for anchoring a portable machine. Calling crab. (Zoöl.)
See Fiddler., n., 2.
 -- Crab apple, a small, sour apple, of several kinds; also, the tree
which bears it; as, the European crab apple (Pyrus Malus
var.sylvestris); the Siberian crab apple (Pyrus baccata); and the
American (Pyrus coronaria).
 -- Crab grass. (Bot.) (a) A grass (Digitaria, or Panicum,
sanguinalis); -- called also finger grass. (b) A grass of the genus
Eleusine (E. Indica); -- called also dog's-tail grass, wire grass,
etc.
 -- Crab louse (Zoöl.), a species of louse (Phthirius pubis),
sometimes infesting the human body.
 -- Crab plover (Zoöl.), an Asiatic plover (Dromas ardeola).
 -- Crab's eyes, or Crab's stones, masses of calcareous matter found,
at certain seasons of the year, on either side of the stomach of the
European crawfishes, and formerly used in medicine for absorbent and
antacid purposes; the gastroliths.
 -- Crab spider (Zoöl.), one of a group of spiders (Laterigradæ); --
called because they can run backwards or sideways like a crab.
 -- Crab tree, the tree that bears crab applies.
 -- Crab wood, a light cabinet wood obtained in Guiana, which takes a
high polish. McElrath.
 -- To catch a crab (Naut.), a phrase used of a rower: (a) when he
fails to raise his oar clear of the water; (b) when he misses the
water altogether in making a stroke.

CRAB
Crab (krb), v. t.

1. To make sour or morose; to embitter. [Obs.]
Sickness sours or crabs our nature. Glanvill.

2. To beat with a crabstick. [Obs.] J. Fletcher.

CRAB
Crab, v. i. (Naut.)

Defn: To drift sidewise or to leeward, as a vessel. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

CRAB
Crab, a. Etym: [Prob. from the same root as crab, n.]

Defn: Sour; rough; austere.
The crab vintage of the neighb'ring coast. Dryden.

CRABBED
Crab"bed (krb"bd), a. Etym: [See Crab,n.]

1. Characterized by or manifesting, sourness, peevishness, or
moroseness; harsh; cross; cynical; -- applied to feelings,
disposition, or manners.
Crabbed age and youth can not live together. Shak.

2. Characterized by harshness or roughness; unpleasant; -- applied to
things; as, a crabbed taste.

3. Obscure; difficult; perplexing; trying; as, a crabbed author.
"Crabbed eloquence." Chaucer.
How charming is divine philosophy! Not harsh and crabbed, as dull
fools suppose. Milton.

4. Cramped; irregular; as, crabbed handwriting.
 -- Crab"bed*ly, adv.
 -- Crab"bed*ness, n.

CRABBER
Crab"ber (krb"br), n.

Defn: One who catches crabs.

CRABBING
Crab"bing, n.

1. The act or art of catching crabs.

2. (Falconry)

Defn: The foghting of hawks with each other.

3. (Woolem Manuf.)

Defn: A process of scouring clocth be

CRABBISH
Crab"bish (krb"bsh), a.

Defn: Somewhat sour or cross.
The wips of the most crabbish Satyristes. Decker.

CRABBY
Crab"by (-b), a.

Defn: Crabbed; difficult, or perplexing. "Persius is crabby, because
ancient." Marston.

CRABEATER
Crab"eat`er (krb"t`r), n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The cobia.
(b) An etheostomoid fish of the southern United States (Hadropterus
nigrofasciatus).
(c) A small European heron (Ardea minuta, and other allied species).

CRABER
Cra"ber (kr"br), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The water rat. Walton.

CRABFACED
Crab"faced` (krb"fst`), a.

Defn: Having a sour, disagreeable countenance. Beau & Fl.

CRABSIDLE
Crab"si`dle (-s`d'l), v. i.

Defn: To move sidewise, as a crab. [Jocular]. Southey.

CRABSTICK
Crab"stick` (-stk`), n.

Defn: A stick, cane, or cudgel, made of the wood of the carb tree.

CRAB TREE
Crab" tree (tr`).

Defn: See under Crab.

CRAB-YAWS
Crab"-yaws` (krb"yz`), n. (Med.)

Defn: A disease in the West Indies. It is a kind of ulcer on the
soles of the feet, with very hard edges. See Yaws. Dunglison.

CRACHE
Crache (krch), v.

Defn: To scratch. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CRACK
Crack (krk), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cracked (krkt); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cracking.] Etym: [OE. cracken, craken, to crack, break, boast, AS.
cracian, cearcian, to crack; akin to D. kraken, G. krachen; cf. Skr.
garj to rattle, or perh. of imitative origin. Cf. Crake, Cracknel,
Creak.]

1. To break or burst, with or without entire separation of the parts;
as, to crack glass; to crack nuts.

2. To rend with grief or pain; to affect deeply with sorrow; hence,
to disorder; to distract; to craze.
O, madam, my old hear is cracked. Shak.
He thought none poets till their brains were cracked. Roscommon.

3. To cause to sound suddenly and sharply; to snap; as, to crack a
whip.

4. To utter smartly and sententiously; as, to crack a joke. B.
Jonson.

5. To cry up; to extol; -- followed by up. [Low] To crack a bottle,
to open the bottle and drink its contents.
 -- To crack a crib, to commit burglary. [Slang] -- To crack on, to
put on; as, to crack on more sail, or more steam. [Colloq.]

CRACK
Crack, v. i.

1. To burst or open in chinks; to break, with or without quite
separating into parts.
By misfortune it cracked in the coling. Boyle.
The mirror cracked from side to side. Tennyson.

2. To be ruined or impaired; to fail. [Collog.]
The credit . . . of exchequers cracks, when little comes in and much
goes out. Dryden.

3. To utter a loud or sharp, sudden sound.
As thunder when the clouds in autumn crack. Shak.

4. To utter vain, pompous words; to brag; to boast; -- with of.
[Archaic.]
Ethoipes of their sweet complexion crack. Shak.

CRACK
Crack, n.

1. A partial separation of parts, with or without a perceptible
opening; a chink or fissure; a narrow breach; a crevice; as, a crack
in timber, or in a wall, or in glass.

2. Ropture; flaw; breach, in a moral sense.
My love to thee is sound, sans crack or flaw. Shak.

3. A sharp, sudden sound or report; the sound of anything suddenly
burst or broken; as, the crack of a falling house; the crack of
thunder; the crack of a whip.
Will the stretch out to the crack of doom Shak.

4. The tone of voice when changed at puberty.
Though now our voices Have got the mannish crack. Shak.

5. Mental flaw; a touch of craziness; partial insanity; as, he has a
crack.

6. A crazy or crack-brained person. [Obs.]
I . . . can not get the Parliament to listen to me, who look upon me
as a crack and a projector. Addison.

7. A boast; boasting. [Obs.] "Crack and brags." Burton. "Vainglorius
cracks." Spenser.

8. Breach of chastity. [Obs.] Shak.

9. A boy, generally a pert, lively boy. [Obs.]
Val. 'Tis a noble child. Vir. A crack, madam. Shak.

10. A brief time; an instant; as, to be with one in a crack. [Eng. &
Scot. Colloq.]

11. Free conversation; friendly chat. [Scot.]
What is crack in English . . . Acrack . . . a chat with a good,
kindly human heart in it. P. P. Alexander.

CRACK
Crack, a.

Defn: Of superior excellence; having qualities to be boasted of.
[Colloq.]
One of our crack speakers in the Commons. Dickens.

CRACKAJACK
Crack"a*jack`, n.

1. An individual of marked ability or excellence, esp. in some sport;
as, he is a crackajack at tennis. [Slang]

2.  A preparation of popped corn, candied and pressed into small
cakes. [U. S.]

CRACKAJACK
Crack"a*jack`, a.

Defn: Of marked ability or excellence. [Slang]

CRACK-BRAINED
Crack"-brained` (-brnd`), a.

Defn: Having an impaired intellect; whimsical; crazy. Pope.

CRACKED
Cracked (krkt), a.

1. Coarsely ground or broken; as, cracked wheat.

2. Crack-brained. [Colloq.]

CRACKER
Crack"er (krk"r), n.

1. One who, or that which, cracks.

2. A noisy boaster; a swaggering fellow. [Obs.]
What cracker is this same that deafs our ears Shak.

3. A small firework, consisting of a little powder inclossed in a
thick paper cylinder with a fuse, and exploding with a sharp noise; -
- often called firecracker.

4. A thin, dry biscuit, often hard or crisp; as, a Boston cracker; a
Graham cracker; a soda cracker; an oyster cracker.

5. A nickname to designate a poor white in some parts of the Southern
United States. Bartlett.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pintail duck.

7. pl. (Mach.)

Defn: A pair of fluted rolls for grinding caoutchouc. Knight.

CRACKER STATE
Cracker State.

Defn: Georgia; -- a nickname. See Cracker, n. 5.

CRACKLE
Crac"kle (krk"k'l), v. i. Etym: [Dim. of crack.]

Defn: To make slight cracks; to make small, sharp, sudden noises,
rapidly or frequently repeated; to crepitate; as, burning thorns
crackle.
The unknown ice that crackles underneath them. Dryden.

CRACKLE
Crac"kle, n.

1. The noise of slight and frequent cracks or reports; a crackling.
The crackle of fireworks. Carlyle.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A kind of crackling sound or râle, heard in some abnormal
states of the lungs; as, dry crackle; moist crackle. Quain.

3. (Fine Arts)

Defn: A condition produced in certain porcelain, fine earthenware, or
glass, in which the glaze or enamel appears to be cracked in all
directions, making a sort of reticulated surface; as, Chinese
crackle; Bohemian crackle.

CRACKLED
Crac"kled (-k'ld), a. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Covered with minute cracks in the glaze; -- said of some kinds
of porcelain and fine earthenware.

CRACKLEWARE
Crac"kle*ware` (-wr`), n.

Defn: See Crackle, n., 3.

CRACKLING
Crac"kling (krk"klng), n.

1. The making of small, sharp cracks or reports, frequently repeated.
As the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the
fool. Eccl. vii. 6.

2. The well-browned, crisp rind of roasted pork.
For the first time in his life he tested crackling. Lamb.

3. pl.

Defn: Food for dogs, made from the refuse of tallow melting.

CRACK-LOO; CRACKALOO
Crack"-loo`, n. Also Crack"a*loo` .

Defn: A kind of gambling game consisting in pitching coins to or
towards the ceiling of a room so that they shall fall as near as
possible to a certain crack in the floor. [Gamblers' Cant, U. S.]

CRACKNEL
Crack"nel (krk"nl), n. Etym: [F. craquelin, fr. D. krakeling, fr.
krakken to crack. See Crack, v. t.]

Defn: A hard brittle cake or biscuit. Spenser.

CRACKSMAN
Cracks"man (krks"man), n., pl. Cracksmen (-men).

Defn: A burglar. [Slang]

CRACOVIAN
Cra*co"vi*an (kr-k"v-an), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cracow in Poland.

CRACOVIENNE
Cra*co`vi*enne" (kr-k`v-n"), n. Etym: [F., fr. Cracow, the city.]
(Mus.)

Defn: A lively Polish dance, in 2-4 time.

CRACOWES
Cra"cowes (kr"kz), n. pl.

Defn: Long-toed boots or shoes formerly worn in many parts of Europe;
-- so called from Cracow, in Poland, where they were first worn in
the fourteenth century. Fairholt.

CRADLE
Cra"dle (krd'l), n. Etym: [AS. cradel, cradol, prob. from Celtic; cf.
Gael. creathall, Ir. craidhal, W. cryd a shaking or rocking, a
cradle; perh. akin to E. crate.]

1. A bed or cot for a baby, oscillating on rockers or swinginng on
pivots; hence, the place of origin, or in which anything is nurtured
or protected in the earlier period of existence; as, a cradle of
crime; the cradle of liberty.
The cradle that received thee at thy birth. Cowper.
No sooner was I crept out of my cradle But I was made a king, at nine
months old. Shak.

2. Infancy, or very early life.
From their cradles bred together. Shak.
A form of worship in which they had been educated from their cradles.
Clarendon.

3. (Agric.)

Defn: An implement consisting of a broad scythe for cutting grain,
with a set of long fingers parallel to the scythe, designed to
receive the grain, and to lay it eventlyin a swath.

4. (Engraving)

Defn: A tool used in mezzotint engraving, which, by a rocking motion,
raises burrs on the surface of the plate, so preparing the ground.

5. A framework of timbers, or iron bars, moving upon ways or rollers,
used to support, lift, or carry ships or other vessels, heavy guns,
etc., as up an inclined plane, or across a strip of land, or in
launching a ship.

6. (Med.)
(a) A case for a broken or dislocated limb.
(b) A frame to keep the bedclothes from conntact with the person.

7. (Mining)
(a) A machine on rockers, used in washing out auriferous earth; --
also called a rocker. [U.S.]
(b) A suspended scaffold used in shafts.

8. (Carp.)

Defn: The ribbing for vaulted ceilings and arches intended to be
covered with plaster. Knight.

9. (Naut.)

Defn: The basket or apparatus in which, when a line has been made
fast to a wrecked ship from the shore, the people are brought off
from the wreck. Cat's cradle. See under Cat.
 -- Cradle hole, a sunken place in a road, caused by thawing, or by
travel over a soft spot.
 -- Cradle scythe, a broad scythe used in a cradle for cutting grain.

CRADLE
Cra"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cradled (-d'ld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cradling (-dlng).]

1. To lay to rest, or rock, as in a cradle; to lull or quiet, as by
rocking.
It cradles their fears to sleep. D. A. Clark.

2. To nurse or train in infancy.
He that hath been cradled in majesty will not leave the throne to
play with beggars. Glanvill.

3. To cut and lay with a cradle, as grain.

4. To transport a vessel by means of a cradle.
In Lombardy . . . boats are cradled and transported over the grade.
Knight.
To cradle a picture, to put ribs across the back of a picture, to
prevent the panels from warping.

CRADLE
Cra"dle, v. i.

Defn: To lie or lodge, as in a cradle.
Withered roots and husks wherein the acorn cradled. Shak.

CRADLELAND
Cra"dle*land` (kra"d'l*land`), n.

Defn: Land or region where one was cradled; hence, land of origin.

CRADLING
Cra"dling (-dlng), n.

1. The act of using a cradle.

2. (Coopering)

Defn: Cutting a cask into two pieces lengthwise, to enable it to pass
a narrow place, the two parts being afterward united and rehooped.

3. (Carp.)

Defn: The framework in arched or coved ceilings to which the laths
are nailed. Knight.

CRAFT
Craft (krft), n. Etym: [AS. cr strength, skill, art, cunning; akin to
OS., G., Sw., & Dan. kraft strength, D. kracht, Icel. kraptr; perh.
originally, a drawing together, stretching, from the root of E.
cramp.]

1. Strength; might; secret power. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Art or skill; dexterity in particular manual employment; hence,
the occupation or employment itself; manual art; a trade.
Ye know that by this craft we have our wealth. Acts xix. 25.
A poem is the work of the poet; poesy is his skill or craft of
making. B. Jonson.
Since the birth of time, throughout all ages and nations, Has the
craft of the smith been held in repute. Longfellow.

3. Those engaged in any trade, taken collectively; a guild; as, the
craft of ironmongers.
The control of trade passed from the merchant guilds to the new craft
guilds. J. R. Green.

4. Cunning, art, or skill, in a bad sense, or applied to bad
purposes; artifice; guile; skill or dexterity employed to effect
purposes by deceit or shrewd devices.
You have that crooked wisdom which is called craft. Hobbes.
The chief priets and the scribes sought how they might take him by
craft, and put him to death. Mark xiv. 1.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel; vessels of any kind; -- generally used in a
collective sense.
The evolutions of the numerous tiny craft moving over the lake. Prof.
Wilson.
Small crafts, small vessels, as sloops, schooners, ets.

CRAFT
Craft, v.t.

Defn: To play tricks; to practice artifice. [Obs.]
You have crafted fair. Shak.

CRAFTER
crafter n.

Defn: a creator of great skill in the manual arts.
Syn. -- craftsman.
[WordNet 1.5]

CRAFTILY
Craft"i*ly (--l), adv. Etym: [See Crafty.]

Defn: With craft; artfully; cunningly.

CRAFTINESS
Craft"i*ness (krft"-ns), n.

Defn: Dexterity in devising and effecting a purpose; cunning;
artifice; stratagem.
He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. Job. v. 13.

CRAFTLESS
Craft"less (-ls), a.

Defn: Without craft or cunning.
Helpless, craftless, and innocent people. Jer. Taylor.

CRAFTSMAN
Crafts"man (krfts"man), n.; pl. Craftsmen (-men).

Defn: One skilled in some trade or manual occupation; an artificer; a
mechanic.

CRAFTSMANSHIP
Crafts"man*ship, n.

Defn: The work of a craftsman.

CRAFTSMASTER
Crafts"mas`ter (-ms`tr), n.

Defn: One skilled in his craft or trade; one of superior cunning.
In cunning persuasion his craftsmaster. Holland.

CRAFTY
Craft"y (krft"), a. Etym: [AS. cr.]

1. Relating to, or characterized by, craft or skill; dexterous.
[Obs.] "Crafty work." Piers Plowman.

2. Possessing dexterity; skilled; skillful.
A noble crafty man of trees. Wyclif.

3. Skillful at deceiving others; characterized by craft; cunning;
wily. "A pair of crafty knaves." Shak.
With anxious care and crafty wiles. J. Baillie.

Syn.
 -- Skillful; dexterous; cunning; artful; wily; Cunning.

CRAG
Crag (krg), n. Etym: [W. craig; akin to Gael. creag, Corn. karak,
Armor. karrek.]

1. A steep, rugged rock; a cough, broken cliff, or point of a rock,
on a ledge.
From crag to crag the signal fiew. Sir W. Scott.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: A partially compacted bed of gravel mixed with shells, of the
Tertiary age.

CRAG
Crag, n. Etym: [A form of craw: cf. D. kraag neck, collar, G. kragen.
See Craw.]

1. The neck or throat [Obs.]
And bear the crag so stiff and so state. Spenser.

2. The neck piece or scrag of mutton. Johnson.

CRAGGED
Crag"ged (-gd), a.

Defn: Full of crags, or steep, broken
Into its cragged rents descend. J. Baillie.

CRAGGEDNESS
Crag"ged*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being cragged; cragginess.

CRAGGINESS
Crag"gi*ness (-g-ns), n.

Defn: The state of being craggy.

CRAGGY
Crag"gy (krg"g), a.

Defn: Full of crags; rugged with projecting points of rocks; as, the
craggy side of a mountain. "The craggy ledge." Tennyson.

CRAGSMAN
Crags"man (krgz"man), n.; pl. Cragsmen (-men).

Defn: One accustomed to climb rocks or crags; esp., one who makes a
business of climbing the cliffs overhanging the sea to get the eggs
of sea birds or the birds themselves.

CRAIE
Craie (kr), n.

Defn: See Crare. [Obs.]

CRAIG FLOUNDER
Craig" floun`der (krg" floun`dr). Etym: [Scot. craig a rock. See 1st
Crag.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pole flounder.

CRAIL
Crail (krl),, n. Etym: [See Creel.]

Defn: A creel or osier basket.

CRAKE
Crake (krk), v. t. & i. Etym: [See Crack.]

1. To cry out harshly and loudly, like the bird called crake.

2. To boast; to speak loudly and boastfully. [Obs.]
Each man may crake of that which was his own. Mir. for Mag.

CRAKE
Crake, n.

Defn: A boast. See Crack, n. [Obs.] Spenser.

CRAKE
Crake, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kr crow, kr raven, Sw. kr, Dan. krage;
perh. of imitative origin. Cf. Crow.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species or rail of the genera Crex and Porzana; -- so
called from its singular cry. See Corncrake.

CRAKEBERRY
Crake"ber`ry (-br`r), n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Crowberry.

CRAKER
Crak"er (krk"r), n.

Defn: One who boasts; a braggart. [Obs.] Old Play.

CRAM
Cram (krm), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crammed (krmd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cramming.] Etym: [AS. crammian to cram; akin to Icel. kremia to
squeeze, bruise, Sw. krama to press. Cf. Cramp.]

1. To press, force, or drive, particularly in filling, or in
thrustung one thing into another; to stuff; to crowd; to fill to
superfluity; as, to cram anything into a basket; to cram a room with
people.
Their storehouses crammed with grain. Shak.
He will cram his brass down our throats. Swift.

2. To fill with food to satiety; to stuff.
Children would be freer from disease if they were not crammed so much
as they are by fond mothers. Locke.
Cram us with praise, and make us As fat as tame things. Shak.

3. To put hastily through an extensive course of memorizing or study,
as in preparation for an examination; as, a pupil is crammed by his
tutor.

CRAM
Cram, v. i.

1. To eat greedly, and to satiety; to stuff.
Gluttony . . . . Cr, and blasphemes his feeder. Milton.

2. To make crude preparation for a special occasion, as an
examination, by a hasty and extensive course of memorizing or study.
[Colloq.]

CRAM
Cram, n.

1. The act of cramming.

2. Innformation hastily memorized; as. a cram from an examination.
[Colloq.]

3. (Weaving)

Defn: A warp having more than two threads passing through each dent
or split of the reed.

CRAMBO
Cram"bo, n. Etym: [Cf. Cramp, a., difficult.]

1. A game in which one person gives a word, to which another finds a
rhyme.
I saw in one corner . . . a cluster of men and women,diverting
themselves with a game at crambo. I heard several double rhymes . . .
which raised a great deal of mirth. Addison.

2. A werd rhyming with another word.
His similes in order set And every crambo he could get. Swift.
Dumb crambo, a game in which one party of players give a word which
rhymes with another, which last to be guessed by the opposing party,
who represent in dumb show what they think it to be.

CRAMMER
Cram"mer (krm"mr), n.

Defn: One who crams; esp., one who prepares a pupil hastily for an
exxamination, or a pupil who is thus prepared. Dickens.

CRAMOISIE; CRAMOISY
Cra*moi"sie Cra*moi"sy (kr-moi"z), a. Etym: [F. cramoisi crimson. See
Crimson.]

Defn: Crimson. [Obs.]
A splendid seignior, magnificent in cramoisy velevet. Motley.

CRAMP
Cramp (krmp), n. Etym: [OE. crampe, craumpe; akin to D. & Sw. kramp,
Dan. krampe, G. krampf (whence F. crampe), Icel. krappr strait,
narrow, and to E. crimp, crumple; cf. cram. See Grape.]

1. That which confines or contracts; a restraint; a shakle; a
hindrance.
A narrow fortune is a cramp to a great mind. L'Estrange.
Crippling his pleasures with the cramp of fear. Cowper.

2. (Masonry)

Defn: A device, usually of iron bent at the ends, used to hold
together blocks of stone, timbers, etc.; a cramp iron.

3. (Carp.)

Defn: A rectangular frame, with a tightening screw, used for
compressing the jionts of framework, etc.

4. A piece of wood having a curve corresponding to that of the upper
part of the instep, on which the upper leather of a boot is stretched
to give it the requisite shape.

5. (Med.)

Defn: A spasmodic and painful involuntary contraction of a muscle or
muscles, as of the leg.
The cramp, divers nights, gripeth him in his legs. Sir T. More.
Cramp bone, the patella of a sheep; -- formerly used as a charm for
the cramp. Halliwell. "He could turn cramp bones into chess men."
Dickens.
 -- Cramp ring, a ring formerly supposed to have virtue in averting
or curing cramp, as having been consecrated by one of the kings of
England on Good Friday.

CRAMP
Cramp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cramped (krp. pr. & vb. n. Cramping.]

1. To compress; to restrain from free action; to confine and
contract; to hinder.
The mind my be as much cramped by too much knowledge as by ignorance.
Layard.

2. To fasten or hold with, or as with, a cramp.

3. Hence, to bind together; to unite.
The . . . fabric of universal justic is well cramped and bolted
together in all its parts. Burke.

4. To form on a cramp; as, to cramp boot legs.

5. To afflict with cramp.
When the gout cramps my joints. Ford.
To cramp the wheels of wagon, to turn the front wheels out of line
with the hind wheels, so that one of them shall be against the body
of the wagon.

CRAMP
Cramp, a. Etym: [See Cramp, n.]

Defn: Knotty; difficult. [R.]
Care being taken not to add any of the cramp reasons for this
opinion. Coleridge.

CRAMPET
Cram"pet (krm"pt), n. Etym: [See Cramp,n.] (Mil.)

Defn: A cramp iron or cramp ring; a chape, as of a scabbard. [Written
also crampit and crampette.]

CRAMPFISH
Cramp"fish` (krmp"fsh`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The torpedo, or electric ray, the touch of which gives an
electric shock. See Electric fish, and Torpedo.

CRAMP IRON
Cramp" i`ron (`rn).

Defn: See Cramp, n., 2.

CRAMPIT
Cram"pit (krm"pt), n. (Mil.)

Defn: See Crampet.

CRAMPON
Cram"pon (krm"pn), n. Etym: [F. See Crampoons.] (Bot.)

Defn: An a

CRAMPONEE
Cram`po*nee" (krm`p-n"), a. Etym: [F. cramponn. See Crampoons.]
(Her.)

Defn: Having a cramp or square piece at the end; -- said of a cross
so furnished.

CRAMPOONS
Cram*poons" (krm-pnz"), n. pl. Etym: [F. crampon, fr. OHG. chramph
crooked; akin to G. krampf cramp. See Cramp,n., and cf. Crampon.]

1. A clutch formed of hooked pieces of iron, like double calipers,
for raising stones, lumber, blocks of ice, etc.

2. Iron insruments with sharp points, worn on the shoes to assist in
gaining or keeping a foothold.

CRAMPY
Cramp"y (krmp"),

1. Affected with cramp.

2. Productive of, or abounding in, cramps. "This crampy country."
Howitt.

CRAN; CRANE
Cran (krn), Crane (krn), n. Etym: [Scot., fr. Gael. crann.]

Defn: A measure for fresh herrings, -- as many as will fill a barrel.
[Scot.] H. Miller.

CRANAGE
Cran"age (krn"j), n. Etym: [See Crane.]

1. The liberty of using a crane, as for loading and unloading
vessels.

2. The money or price paid for the use of a crane.

CRANBERRY
Cran"ber*ry (krn"br-r), n.; pl. Cranberries (-r Etym: [So named from
its fruit being ripe in the spring when the cranes return. Dr.
Prior.] (Bot.)

Defn: A red, acid berry, much used for making sauce, etc.; also, the
plant producing it (several species of Vaccinum or Oxycoccus.) The
high cranberry or cranberry tree is a species of Viburnum (V.
Opulus), and the other is sometimes called low cranberry or marsh
cranberry to distinguish it.

CRANCH
Cranch (krnch), v. t.

Defn: See Craunch.

CRANDALL
Cran"dall (kran"dal), n. [Prob. from Crandall, a proper name.]
(Stonecutting)

Defn: A kind of hammer having a head formed of a group of pointed
steel bars, used for dressing ashlar, etc. -- v. t.

Defn: To dress with a crandall.

CRANE
Crane (krn), n. Etym: [AS. cran; akin to D. & LG. craan, G. kranich,
krahn (this in sense 2), Gr. grus, W. & Armor. garan, OSlav. zerav,
Lith. gerve, Icel. trani, Sw. trana, Dan. trane. Geranium.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wading bird of the genus Grus, and allied genera, of various
species, having a long, straight bill, and long legs and neck.

Note: The common European crane is Grus cinerea. The sand-hill crane
(G. Mexicana) and the whooping crane (G. Americana) are large
American species. The Balearic or crowned crane is Balearica
pavonina. The name is sometimes erroneously applied to the herons and
cormorants.

2. A machine for raising and lowering heavy weights, and, while
holding them suspended, transporting them through a limited lateral
distance. In one form it consists of a projecting arm or jib of
timber or iron, a rotating post or base, and the necessary tackle,
windlass, etc.; -- so called from a fancied similarity between its
arm and the neck of a crane See Illust. Of Derrick.

3. An iron arm with horizontal motion, attached to the side or back
of a fireplace, for supporting kettles, etc., over a fire.

4. A siphon, or bent pipe, for drawing liquors out of a cask.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: A forked post or projecting bracket to support spars, etc., --
generally used in pairs. See Crotch, 2. Crane fly (Zoöl.), a
dipterous insect with long legs, of the genus Tipula.
 -- Derrick crane. See Derrick.
 -- Gigantic crane. (Zoöl.) See Adjutant, n., 3.
 -- Traveling crane, Traveler crane, Traversing crane (Mach.), a
crane mounted on wheels; esp., an overhead crane consisting of a crab
or other hoisting apparatus traveling on rails or beams fixed
overhead, as in a machine shop or foundry.
 -- Water crane, a kind of hydrant with a long swinging spout, for
filling locomotive tenders, water carts, etc., with water.

CRANE
Crane (krn), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Craned (krnd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Craning.]

1. To cause to rise; to raise or lift, as by a crane; -- with up.
[R.]
What engines, what instruments are used in craning up a soul, sunk
below the center, to the highest heavens. Bates.
An upstart craned up to the height he has. Massinger.

2. To stretch, as a crane stretches its neck; as, to crane the neck
disdainfully. G. Eliot.

CRANE
crane, v. i.

Defn: to reach forward with head and neck, in order to see better;
as, a hunter cranes forward before taking a leap. Beaconsfield.
Thackeray.
The passengers eagerly craning forward over the bulwarks. Howells.

CRANE'S-BILL
Crane's"-bill` (krnz"bl`), n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The geranium; -- so named from the long axis of the fruit,
which resembles the beak of a crane. Dr. Prior.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: A pair of long-beaked forceps.

CRANG
Crang (krng), n.

Defn: See Krang.

CRANIA
Cra"ni*a (kr"n-), n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of living Brachiopoda; -- so called from its fancied
resemblance to the cranium or skull.

CRANIAL
Cra"ni*al (kr"n-al), a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cranium.

CRANIOCLASM
Cra"ni*o*clasm (kr"n--klz'm), n. Etym: [Cranium + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The crushing of a child's head, as with the cranioclast or
craniotomy forceps in cases of very difficult delivery. Dunglison.

CRANIOCLAST
Cra"ni*o*clast (-klst), n. (Med.)

Defn: An instrument for crushing the head of a fetus, to facilitate
delivery in difficult eases.

CRANIOFACIAL
Cra`ni*o*fa"cial (-f"shal), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cranium and face; as, the craniofacial
angle.

CRANIOGNOMY
Cra`ni*og"no*my (-g"n-m), n. Etym: [Cranium + Gr.

Defn: The science of the form and characteristics of the skull. [R.]

CRANIOLOGICAL
Cra`ni*o*log"ic*al (--lj"-kal), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to craniology.

CRANIOLOGIST
Cra`ni*ol"o*gist (-l"-jst), n.

Defn: One proficient in craniology; a phrenologist.

CRANIOLOGY
Cra`ni*ol"o*gy (-j), n. Etym: [Cranium + -logy.]

Defn: The department of science (as of ethnology or archæology) which
deals with the shape, size, proportions, indications, etc., of
skulls; the study of skulls.

CRANIOMETER
Cra`ni*om"e*ter (kr`n-m"-tr), n. Etym: [Cranium + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the size of skulls.

CRANIOMETRIC; CRANIOMETRICAL
Cra`ni*o*met"ric (--mt"rk), Cra`ni*o*met"ric*al (-r-kal), a.

Defn: Pertaining to craniometry.

CRANIOMETRY
Cra`ni*om"e*try (kr`n-m"-tr), n.

Defn: The art or act of measuring skulls.

CRANIOSCOPIST
Cra`ni*os"co*pist (kr`n-s"k-pst), n.

Defn: One skilled in, or who practices, cranioscopy.
It was found of equal dimension in a literary man whose skull puzzied
the cranioscopists. Coleridge.

CRANIOSCOPY
Cra`ni*os"co*py (-p), n. Etym: [Cranium + -scopy.]

Defn: Scientific examination of the cranium.

CRANIOTA
Cra`ni*o"ta (kr`n-t), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. cranium.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A comprehensive division of the Vertebrata, including all those
that have a skull.

CRANIOTOMY
Cra`ni*ot"o*my (kr`n-t"-m), n. Etym: [Cranium + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The operation of opening the fetal head, in order to effect
delivery.

CRANIUM
Cra"ni*um (kr"n-m), n.; pl. E. Craniums (-Crania (-. Etym: [NL., fr.
Gr.

Defn: The skull of an animal; especially, that part of the skull,
either cartilaginous or bony, which immediately incloses the brain;
the brain case or brainpan. See Skull.

CRANK
Crank (krnk), n. Etym: [OE. cranke; akin to E. cringe, cringle,
crinkle, and to crank, a., the root meaning, probably, "to turn,
twist." See Cringe.]

1. (Mach.)

Defn: A bent portion of an axle, or shaft, or an arm keyed at right
angles to the end of a shaft, by which motion is imparted to or
received from it; also used to change circular into reciprocating
motion, or reciprocating into circular motion. See Bell crank.

2. Any bend, turn, or winding, as of a passage.
So many turning cranks these have, so many crooks. Spenser.

3. A twist or turn in speech; a conceit consisting in a change of the
form or meaning of a word.
Quips, and cranks, and wanton wiles. Milton.

4. A twist or turn of the mind; caprice; whim; crotchet; also, a fit
of temper or passion. [Prov. Eng.]
Violent of temper; subject to sudden cranks. Carlyle.

5. A person full of crotchets; one given to fantastic or
impracticable projects; one whose judgment is perverted in respect to
a particular matter. [Colloq.]

6. A sick person; an invalid. [Obs.]
Thou art a counterfeit crank, a cheater. Burton.
Crank axle (Mach.), a driving axle formed with a crank or cranks, as
in some kinds of locomotives.
 -- Crank pin (Mach.), the cylindrical piece which forms the handle,
or to which the connecting rod is attached, at the end of a crank, or
between the arms of a double crank.
 -- Crank shaft, a shaft bent into a crank, or having a crank
fastened to it, by which it drives or is driven.
 -- Crank wheel, a wheel acting as a crank, or having a wrist to
which a connecting rod is attached.

CRANK
Crank (krnk), a. Etym: [AS. cranc weak; akin to Icel. krangr, D. & G.
krank sick, weak (cf.D. krengen to careen). Cf. Crank, n.]

1. Sick; infirm. [Prov. Eng.]

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Liable to careen or be overest, as a ship when she is too
narrow, or has not sufficient ballast, or is loaded too high, to
carry full sail.

3. Full of spirit; brisk; lively; sprightly; overconfident;
opinionated.
He who was, a little before, bedrid, . . . was now crank and lusty.
Udall.
If you strong electioners did not think you were among the elect, you
would not be so crank about it. Mrs. Stowe.

CRANK
Crank, v. i. Etym: [See Crank, n. ]

Defn: To run with a winding course; to double; to crook; to wind and
turn.
See how this river comes me cranking in. Shak.

CRANKBIRD
Crank"bird` (-brd`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European woodpecker (Picus minor).

CRANKED
Cranked (krnkt), a.

Defn: Formed with, or having, a bend or crank; as, a cranked axle.

CRANKINESS
Crank"i*ness (krnk"-ns), n.

Defn: Crankness. Lowell.

CRANKLE
Cran"kle (krn"k'l), v. t. Etym: [Cf. Crinkle.]

Defn: To break into bends, turns, or angles; to crinkle.
Old Veg's stream . . . drew her humid train aslope, Crankling her
banks. J. Philips.

CRANKLE
Cran"kle, v. i.

Defn: To bend, turn, or wind.
Along the crankling path. Drayton.

CRANKLE
Cran"kle, n.

Defn: A bend or turn; a twist; a crinkle.

CRANKNESS
Crank"ness (krnk"ns), n.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: Liability to be overset; -- said of a ship or other vessel.

2. Sprightliness; vigor; health.

CRANKY
Crank"y (-), a.

1. Full of spirit; crank.

2. Addicted to crotchets and whims; unreasonable in opinions;
crotchety. [Colloq.]

3. Unsteady; easy to upset; crank.

CRANNIED
Cran"nied (krn"nd), a.

Defn: Having crannies, chinks, or fissures; as, a crannied wall.
Tennyson.

CRANNOG; CRANNOGE
Cran"nog (krn"ng), Cran"noge (krn"nj), n. Etym: [From Celtic; cf.
Gael. crann a tree.]

Defn: One of the stockaded islands in Scotland and Ireland which in
ancient times were numerous in the lakes of both countries. They may
be regarded as the very latest class of prehistoric strongholds,
reaching their greatest development in early historic times, and
surviving through the Middle Ages. See also Lake dwellings, under
Lake. Encyc. Brit.

CRANNY
Cran"ny (krn"n), n.; pl. Crannies (-n. Etym: [F. cran notch, prob.
from L. crena (a doubful word).]

1. A small, narrow opening, fissure, crevice, or chink, as in a wall,
or other substance.
In a firm building, the cavities ought not to be filled with rubbish,
but with brick or stone fitted to the crannies. Dryden.
He peeped into every cranny. Arbuthnot.

2. (Glass Making)

Defn: A tool for forming the necks of bottles, etc.

CRANNY
Cran"ny, v. i. [imp & p. p. Crannied (-nd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crannying.]

1. To crack into, or become full of, crannies. [R.]
The ground did cranny everywhere. Golding.

2. To haunt, or enter by, crannies.
All tenantless, save to the cranning wind. Byron.

CRANNY
Cran"ny, a. Etym: [Perh. for cranky. See Crank, a. ]

Defn: Quick; giddy; thoughtless. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

CRANTARA
Cran*ta"ra (krn-t"r or -t"r), n. Etym: [Gael. cranntara.]

Defn: The fiery cross, used as a rallying signal in the Highlands of
Scotland.

CRANTS
Crants (krnts), n. Etym: [Cf. D. krans, G. kranz.]

Defn: A garland carried before the bier of a maiden. [Obs.]
Yet here she is allowed her virgin crants, Her maaiden strewments.
Shak.

CRAP
Crap (krap), n.

Defn: In the game of craps, a first throw of the dice in which the
total is two, three, or twelve, in which case the caster loses.

CRAPAUD
Cra*paud", n. [Written also crapawd, crapald, crepaud, etc.] [F.
crapaud.]

1.

Defn: A toad. [Obs.]

2.  (Pronounced kra`po") As a proper name, Johnny Crapaud, or
Crapaud, a nickname for a Frenchman.

CRAPAUDINE
Crap"au*dine (krp"-dn), a. Etym: [F., n.] (Arch.)

Defn: Turning on pivots at the top and bottom; -- said of a door.

CRAPAUDINE
Crap"au*dine, n. Etym: [F.] (Far.)

Defn: An ulcer on the coronet of a horse. Bailey.

CRAPE
Crape (krp), n. Etym: [F. cr, fr. L. crispus curled, crisped. See
Crisp.]

Defn: A thin, crimped stuff, made of raw silk gummed and twisted on
the mill. Black crape is much used for mourning garments, also for
the dress of some clergymen.
A saint in crape is twice a saint in lawn. Pope.
Crape myrtle (Bot.), a very ornamental shrub (Lagerströmia Indica)
from the East Indies, often planted in the Southern United States.
Its foliage is like that of the myrtle, and the flower has wavy
crisped petals.
 -- Oriental crape. See Canton crape.

CRAPE
Crape, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Craped (krpt); p. pr. & vb.n. Craping.]
Etym: [F. cr, fr. L. crispare to curl, crisp, fr. crispus. See Crape,
n.]

Defn: To form into ringlets; to curl; to crimp; to friz; as, to crape
the hair; to crape silk.
The hour for curling and craping the hair. Mad. D'Arblay.

CRAPEFISH
Crape"fish` (krp"fsh`), n.

Defn: Salted codfish hardened by pressure. Kane.

CRAPNEL
Crap"nel (krp"nel), n.

Defn: A hook or drag; a grapnel.

CRAPPIE
Crap"pie (krp"p), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of fresh-water bass of the genus Pomoxys, found in the
rivers of the Southern United States and Mississippi valley. There
are several species. [Written also croppie.]

CRAPPLE
Crap"ple (krp"p'l), n. Etym: [See Graple.]

Defn: A claw. [Obs.]

CRAPS
Craps (krps), n.

Defn: A gambling game with dice. [Local, U.S.]

CRAP SHOOTING
Crap shooting.

Defn: Same as Craps.

CRAPULA; CRAPULE
Crap"u*la (krp"-l), Crap"ule (krp"l), n. Etym: [L. crapula
intoxication.]

Defn: Same as Crapulence.

CRAPULENCE
Crap"u*lence (--lens), n.

Defn: The sickness occasioned by intemperance; surfeit. Bailey.

CRAPULENT; CRAPULOUS
Crap"u*lent (-lent), Crap"u*lous (-ls), a. Etym: [L. crapulentus,
crapulosus: cf. F. crapuleux.]

Defn: Surcharged with liquor; sick from excessive indulgence in
liquor; drunk; given to excesses. [R.]

CRAPY
Crap"y (krp"), a.

Defn: Resembling crape.

CRARE
Crare (krr), n. Etym: [OF. craier, creer, croyer, ship of war, LL.
craiera, creyera, perh. from G. krieger warrior, or D. krijger.]

Defn: A slow unwieldy trading vessel. [Obs.] [Written also crayer,
cray, and craie.] Shak.

CRASE
Crase (krz), v. t. Etym: [See Craze.]

Defn: To break in pieces; to crack. [Obs.] "The pot was crased."
Chaucer.

CRASH
Crash (kr), v. t. [imp & p. p. Crashed (kr; p. pr & vb. n. Crashing.]
Etym: [OE. crashen, the same word as crasen to break, E. craze. See
Craze.]

Defn: To break in pieces violently; to dash together with noise and
violence. [R.]
He shakt his head, and crasht his teeth for ire. Fairfax.

CRASH
Crash, v. i.

1. To make a loud, clattering sound, as of many things falling and
breaking at once; to break in pieces with a harsh noise.
Roofs were blazing and walls crashing in every part of the city.
Macualay.

2. To break with violence and noise; as, the chimney in falling
crashed through the roof.

CRASH
Crash, n.

1. A loud, sudden, confused sound, as of manu things falling and
breaking at once.
The wreck of matter and the crash of worlds. Addison.

2. Ruin; failure; sudden breaking down, as of a business house or a
commercial enterprise.

CRASH
Crash, n. Etym: [L. crassus coarse. See Crass.]

Defn: Coarse, heavy, narrow linen cloth, used esp. for towels.

CRASHING
Crash"ing, n.

Defn: The noise of many things falling and breaking at once.
There shall be . . . a great crashing from the hills. Zeph. i. 10.

CRASIS
Cra"sis (kr"ss), n. Etym: [LL., temperament, fr. Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: A mixture of constituents, as of the blood; constitution;
temperament.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A contraction of two vowels (as the final and initial vowels of
united words) into one long vowel, or into a dipthong; synæresis; as,
cogo for coago.

CRASPEDOTA
Cras`pe*do"ta (krs`p-d"t), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hydroid or naked-eyed medusæ. See Hydroidea.

CRASPEDOTE
Cras"pe*dote (krs"p-dt), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Craspedota.

CRASS
Crass (krs), a. Etym: [L. crassus thick, fat, gross, prob. orig.,
closely woven See Crease animal fat, and cf. Crate, Hurdle.]

Defn: Cross; thick; dense; coarse; not elaborated or refined. "Crass
and fumid exhalations." Sir. T. Browne. "Crass ignorance" Cudworth.

CRASSAMENT; CRASSAMENTUM
Cras"sa*ment (krs"s-ment), Cras`sa*men"tum (-mn"tm), n. Etym: [L.
crassamentum, fr. crassare to make thick. See Crass, a.]

Defn: A semisolid mass or clot, especially that formed in coagulation
of the blood.

CRASSIMENT
Cras"si*ment (krs"s-ment), n.

Defn: See Crassament.

CRASSITUDE
Cras"si*tude (-td), n. Etym: [L. crassitudo.]

Defn: Crossness; coarseness; thickness; density. Bacon.

CRASSNESS
Crass"ness (krs"ns), n.

Defn: Grossness. [Obs.] Glanvill.

CRASTINATION
Cras`ti*na"tion (krs`t-n"shn), n. Etym: [L. crastinus of to-morrow,
from cras to-morrow.]

Defn: Procrastination; a putting off till to-morrow. [Obs.]

CRATAEGUS
Cra*tæ"gus (kr-t"gs), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of small, hardy trees, including the hawthorn, much
used for ornamental purposes.

CRATCH
Cratch (krch; 224), n. Etym: [OE. crache, creche, F. cr crib, manger,
fr. OHG. krippa, krippea,G. krippe crib. See Crib.]

Defn: A manger or open frame for hay; a crib; a rack. [Obs.]
Begin from first where He encradled was, In simple cratch, wrapt in a
wad of hay. Spenser.
Cratch cradle, a representation of the figure of the cratch, made
upon the fingers with a string; cat's cradle; -- called also scratch
cradle.

CRATE
Crate (krt), n. Etym: [L. cratis hurdle; perh. akin to E. cradle. See
Hurdle, and cf. Crate a framework.]

1. A large basket or hamper of wickerwork, used for the
transportation of china, crockery, and similar wares.

2. A box or case whose sides are of wooden slats with interspaces, --
used especially for transporting fruit.

CRATE
Crate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crated; p. pr. & vb. n. Crating.]

Defn: To pack in a crate or case for transportation; as, to crate a
sewing machine; to crate peaches.

CRATER
Cra"ter (krtr), n. Etym: [L. crater, cratera, a mixing vessel, the
mouth of a volcano, Gr. ir to cook, Crail, in Holy Grail.]

1. The basinlike opening or mouth of a volcano, through which the
chief eruption comes; similarly, the mouth of a gevser, about which a
cone of silica is often built up.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: The pit left by the explosion of a mine.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation of the southen hemisphere; -- called also the
Cup.

CRATERIFORM
Cra*ter"i*form (kr-tr"-frm), a. Etym: [L. cratera + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of a shallow bowl; -- said of a corolla.

CRATEROUS
CRa"ter*ous (kr"tr-s), a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a crater. [R.] R. Browning.

CRAUNCH
Craunch (krnch), v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Craunched (krncht);p. pr. &
vb. n. Craunching.] Etym: [See Crunch.]

Defn: To crush with the teeth; to chew with violence and noise; to
crunch. Swift.

CRAVAT
Cra*vat" (kr-vt"), n. Etym: [F. cravate, fr. Cravate a Croat, an
inhabitant of Croatia, one of a body of Austrian troops, from whom,
in 1636, this article of dress was adopted in France.]

Defn: A neckcloth; a piece of silk, fine muslin, or other cloth, worn
by men about the neck.
While his wig was combed and his cravat tied. Macualay.

CRAVATTED
Cra*vat`ted (kr-vt"td), a.

Defn: Wearing a cravat.
The young men faultlessly appointed, handsomely cravatted. Thackeray.

CRAVE
Crave (krv), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Craved (kr; p pr. & vb. n. Craving.]
Etym: [AS. crafian; akin to Icel. krefia, Sw. kr, Dan. kr.]

1. To ask with earnestness or importunity; to ask with submission or
humility; to beg; to entreat; to beseech; to implore.
I crave your honor's pardon. Shak.
Joseph . . . went in boldly unto Pilate, and craved the body of
Jesus. Mark xv. 43.

2. To call for, as a gratification; to long for; hence, to require or
demand; as, the stomach craves food.
His path is one that eminently craves weary walking. Edmund Gurney.

Syn.
 -- To ask; seek; beg; beseech; implore; entreat; solicit; request;
supplicate; adjure.

CRAVE
Crave, v. i.

Defn: To desire strongly; to feel an insatiable longing; as, a
craving appetite.
Once one may crave for love. Suckling.

CRAVEN
Cra"ven (kr"v'n), a. Etym: [OE. cravant, cravaunde, OF. cravant
struck down, p. p. of cravanter, crevanter, to break, crush, strike
down, fr. an assumed LL. crepantare, fr. L. crepans, p. pr. of
crepare to break, crack, rattle. Cf. Crevice, Crepitate.]

Defn: Cowardly; fainthearted; spiritless. "His craven heart." Shak.
The poor craven bridegroom said never a word. Sir. W. Scott.
In craven fear of the sarcasm of Dorset. Macualay.

CRAVEN
Cra"ven, n. Etym: [Formerly written also cravant and cravent.]

Defn: A recreant; a coward; a weak-hearted, spiritless fellow. See
Recreant, n.
King Henry. Is it fit this soldier keep his oath Fluellen.He is a
craven and a villain else. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Coward; poltroon; dastard.

CRAVEN
Cra"ven, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cravened (-v'nd);p. pr. & vb. n.
Cravening.]

Defn: To make recreant, weak, spiritless, or cowardly. [Obs.]
There is a prohibition so divine, That cravens my weak hand. Shak.

CRAVER
Crav"er (krv"r), n.

Defn: One who craves or begs.

CRAVING
Crav"ing (-ng), n.

Defn: Vehement or urgent desire; longing for; beseeching.
A succession of cravings and satiety. L'Estrange.
-- Crav"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Crav"ing*ness, n.

CRAW
Craw (kr), n. Etym: [Akin to D. kraag neck, collar, G. kragen, Sw. kr
craw, Dan. kro, and possibly to Gr.bronchus), or Crag neck.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The crop of a bird.
(b) The stomach of an animal.

CRAWFISH; CRAYFISH
Craw"fish` (kr"fsh`), Cray"fish` (kr"fsh`), n.; pl. -fishes or -fish.
Etym: [Corrupted fr. OE. crevis, creves, OF. crevice, F. , fr. OHG.
krebiz crab, G. krebs. See Crab. The ending -fish arose from
confusion with E. fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any crustacean of the family Astacidæ, resembling the lobster,
but smaller, and found in fresh waters. Crawfishes are esteemed very
delicate food both in Europe and America. The North American species
are numerous and mostly belong to the genus Cambarus. The blind
crawfish of the Mamoth Cave is Cambarus pellucidus. The common
European species is Astacus fluviatilis.

CRAWFORD
Craw"ford (kr"frd), n.

Defn: A Crawford peach; a well-known freestone peach, wich yellow
flesh, first raised by Mr. William Crawford, of New Jersey.

CRAWL
Crawl (krl), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Crawled (krld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crawling.] Etym: [Dan. kravle, or Icel. krafla, to paw, scrabble with
the hands; akin to Sw. kr to crawl; cf. LG. krabbeln, D. krabbelen to
scratch.]

1. To move slowly by drawing the body along the ground, as a worm; to
move slowly on hands and kness; to creep.
A worm finds what it searches after only by feeling, as it crawls
from one thing to another. Grew.

2. Hence, to move or advance in a feeble, slow, or timorous manner.
He was hardly able to crawl about the room. Arbuthnot.
The meanest thing that crawl'd beneath my eyes. Byron.

3. To advance slowly and furtively; to insinuate one's self; to
advance or gain influence by servile or obsequious conduct.
Secretly crawling up the battered walls. Knolles.
Hath crawled into the favor of the king. Shak.
Absurd opinions crawl about the world. South.

4. To have a sensation as of insect creeping over the body; as, the
flesh crawls. See Creep, v. i. ,7.

CRAWL
Crawl (krl), n.

Defn: The act or motion of crawling;

CRAWL
Crawl, n. Etym: [Cf. Kraal.]

Defn: A pen or inclosure of stakes and hurdles on the seacoast, for
holding fish.

CRAWLER
Crawl"er (krl"r), n.

Defn: One who, or that which, crawls; a creeper; a reptile.

CRAWL STROKE
Crawl stroke. (Swimming)

Defn: A racing stroke, in which the swimmer, lying flat on the water
with face submerged, takes alternate overhand arm strokes while
moving his legs up and down alternately from the knee.

CRAWLY
Crawl"y (krl"), a.

Defn: Creepy. [Colloq.]

CRAY; CRAYER
Cray (kr), Cray"er (-r), n.

Defn: See Crare. [Obs.]

CRAYFISH
Cray"fish (kr"fsh), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Crawfish.

CRAYON
Cray"on (kr"n), n. Etym: [F., a crayon, a lead pencil (crayon Conté
Conté's pencil, i. e., one made a black compound invented by Conté),
fr. craie chalk, L. creta; said to be, properly, Cretan earth, fr.
Creta the island Crete. Cf. Cretaceous.]

1. An implement for drawing, made of clay and plumbago, or of some
preparation of chalk, usually sold in small prisms or cylinders.
Let no day pass over you . . . without giving some strokes of the
pencil or the crayon. Dryden.

Note: The black crayon gives a deeper black than the lead pencil.
This and the colored crayons are often called chalks. The red crayon
is also called sanguine. See Chalk, and Sanguine.

2. A crayon drawing.

3. (Electricity)

Defn: A pencil of carbon used in producing electric light. Crayon
board, cardboard with a surface prepared for crayon drawing.
 -- Crayon drawing, the act or art of drawing with crayons; a drawing
made with crayons.

CRAYON
Cray"on, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crayoned (-nd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crayoning.] Etym: [Cf. F. crayonner.]

Defn: To sketch, as with a crayon; to sketch or plan.
He soon afterwards composed that discourse, conformably to the plan
which he had crayoned out. Malone.

CRAZE
Craze (krz), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crazed (krzd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crazing.] Etym: [OE. crasen to break, fr. Scand., perh. through OF.;
cf. Sw. krasa to crackle, sl, to break to pieces, F. to crush, fr.
the Scand. Cf. Crash.]

1. To break into pieces; to crush; to grind to powder. See Crase.
God, looking forth, will trouble all his host, And craze their
chariot wheels. Milton.

2. To weaken; to impair; to render decrepit. [Obs.]
Till length of years, And sedentary numbness, craze my limbs. Milton.

3. To derange the intellect of; to render insane.
Any man . . . that is crazed and out of his wits. Tilloston.
Grief hath crazed my wits. Shak.

CRAZE
Craze, v. i.

1. To be crazed, or to act or appear as
She would weep and he would craze. Keats.

2. To crack, as the glazing of porcelain or pottery.

CRAZE
Craze, n.

1. Craziness; insanity.

2. A strong habitual desire or fancy; a crotchet.
It was quite a craze with him [Burns] to have his Jean dressed
genteelly. Prof. Wilson.

3. A temporary passion or infatuation, as for same new amusement,
pursuit, or fashion; as, the bric-a-brac craze; the æsthetic craze.
Various crazes concerning health and disease. W. Pater.

CRAZEDNESS
Craz"ed*ness (-d-ns), n.

Defn: A broken state; decrepitude; an impaired state of the
intellect.

CRAZE-MILL; CRAZING-MILL
Craze"-mill` (krz"m*l`), Craz"ing-mill` (kr"zng-), n. Etym: [See 1st
Craze.]

Defn: A mill for grinding tin ore.

CRAZILY
Cra"zi*ly (kr*"z-l), adv.

Defn: In a crazy manner.

CRAZINESS
Cra"zi*ness, n.

1. The state of being broken down or weakened; as, the craziness of a
ship, or of the limbs.

2. The state of being broken in mind; imbecility or weakness of
intellect; derangement.

CRAZY
Cra"zy (kr"z), a. Etym: [From Craze.]

1. Characterized by weakness or feeblness; decrepit; broken; falling
to decay; shaky; unsafe.
Piles of mean andcrazy houses. Macualay.
One of great riches, but a crazy constitution. Addison.
They . . . got a crazy boat to carry them to the island. Jeffrey.

2. Broken, weakened, or dissordered in intellect; shattered;
demented; deranged.
Over moist and crazy brains. Hudibras.

3. Inordinately desirous; foolishly eager. [Colloq.]
The girls were crazy to be introduced to him. R. B. Kimball.
Crazy bone, the bony projection at the end of the elbow (olecranon),
behind which passes the ulnar nerve; -- so called on account of the
curiously painful tingling felt, when, in a particular position, it
receives a blow; -- called also funny bone.
 -- Crazy quilt, a bedquilt made of pieces of silk or other material
of various sizes, shapes, and colors, fancifully stitched together
without definite plan or arrangement.

CREABLE
Cre"a*ble (kr"-b'l), a. Etym: [L. creabilis, from creare to create.
See Create.]

Defn: Capable of being created. [Obs.] I. Watts.

CREAGHT
Creaght (krt), n. Etym: [Ir. & Gael. graidh, graigh.]

Defn: A drove or herd. [Obs.] Haliwell.

CREAGHT
Creaght, v. i.

Defn: To graze. [Obs.] Sir. L. Davies.

CREAK
Creak (krk), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Creaked (krkt); p. pr. & vb. n.
Creaking.] Etym: [OE. creken, prob. of imitative origin; cf. E.
crack, and. D. kreiken to crackle, chirp.]

Defn: To make a prolonged sharp grating or ssqueaking sound, as by
the friction of hard substances; as, shoes creak.
The creaking locusts with my voice conspire. Dryden.
Doors upon their hinges creaked. Tennyson.

CREAK
Creak, v. t.

Defn: To produce a creaking sound with.
Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry. Shak.

CREAK
Creak (krk), n.

Defn: Thew sound produced by anuthing that creaks; a creaking. Roget.

CREAKING
CReak"ing, n.

Defn: A harsh grating or squeaking sound, or the act of making such a
sound.
Start not at the creaking of the door. Longfellow.

CREAM
Cream (krm), n. Etym: [F. cr, perh. fr. LL. crema cteam of milk; cf.
L. cremor thick juice or broth, perh. akin to cremare to burn.]

1. The rich, oily, and yellowish part of milk, which, when the milk
stands unagitated, rises, and collects on the surface. It is the part
of milk from which butter is obtained.

2. The part of any liquor that rises, and collects on the surface.
[R.]

3. A delicacy of several kinds prepared for the table from cream,
etc., or so as to resemble cream.

4. A cosmetic; a creamlike medicinal preparation.
In vain she tries her paste and creams, To smooth her skin or hide
its seams. Goldsmith.

5. The best or choicest part of a thing; the quintessence; as. the
cream of a jest or story; the cream of a collection of books or
pictures.
Welcome, O flower and cream of knights errant. Shelton.
Bavarian cream, a preparation of gelatin, cream, sugar, and eggs,
whipped; -- to be eaten cold.
 -- Cold cream, an ointment made of white wax, almond oil, rose
water, and borax, and used as a salve for the hands and lips.
 -- Cream cheese, a kind of cheese made from curd from which the
cream has not been taken off, or to which cream has been added.
 -- Cream gauge, an instrument to test milk, being usually a
graduated glass tube in which the milk is placed for the cream to
rise.
 -- Cream nut, the Brazil nut.
 -- Cream of lime. (a) A scum of calcium carbonate which forms on a
solution of milk of lime from the carbon dioxide of the air. (b) A
thick creamy emulsion of lime in water.
 -- Cream of tartar (Chem.), purified tartar or argol; so called
because of the crust of crystals which forms on the surface of the
liquor in the process of purification by recrystallization. It is a
white crystalline substance, with a gritty acid taste, and is used
very largely as an ingredient of baking powders; -- called also
potassium bitartrate, acid potassium tartrate, etc.

CREAM
Cream, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Creamed (krmd); p. pr. & vb. n. Creaming.]

1. To skim, or take off by skimming, as cream.

2. To take off the best or choicest part of.

3. To furnish with, or as with, cream.
Creaming the fragrant cups. Mrs. Whitney.
To cream butter (Cooking), to rub, stir, or beat, butter till it is
of a light creamy consistency.

CREAM
Cream, v. i.

Defn: To form or become covered with cream; to become thick like
cream; to assume the appearance of cream; hence, to grow stiff or
formal; to mantle.
There are a sort of men whose visages Do cream and mantle like a
standing pool. Shak.

CREAMCAKE
Cream"cake` (-kk`), n. (Cookery)

Defn: A kind of cake filled with custard made of cream, eggs, etc.

CREAM-COLORED
Cream"-col`ored (-kl`rd), a.

Defn: Of the color of cream; light yellow. "Cream-colored horses."
Hazlitt.

CREAMERY
Cream"er*y (-r-), n.; pl. Creameries (-. Etym: [CF. F. cr.]

1. A place where butter and cheese are made, or where milk and cream
are put up in cans for market.

2. A place or apparatus in which milk is set for raising cream.

3. An establishment where cream is sold.

CREAM-FACED
Cream"-faced` (krm"fst`), a.

Defn: White or pale, as the effect of fear, or as the natural
complexion.
Thou cream-faced loon. Shak.

CREAM-FRUIT
Cream"-fruit` (krm"frt`), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of Sierra Leone which yields a wholesome, creamy juice.

CREAMINESS
Cream"i*ness (--ns), n.

Defn: The quality of being creamy.

CREAM LAID
Cream" laid` (krm" ld`).

Defn: See under Laid.

CREAM-SLICE
Cream"-slice` (-sls`), n.

Defn: A wooden knife with a long thin blade, used in handling cream
or ice cream.

CREAM-WHITE
Cream"-white` (-hwt`), a.

Defn: As white as cream.

CREAMY
Cream"y (krm"), a.

Defn: Full of, or containing, cream; resembling cream, in nature,
appearance, or taste; creamlike; unctuous. "Creamy bowis." Collins.
"Lines of creamy spray." Tennyson. "Your creamy words but cozen."
Beau & Fl.

CREANCE
Cre"ance (kr"ans), n. Etym: [F. créance, lit., credence, fr. L.
credere to trust. See Credence.]

1. Faith; belief; creed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. (Falconry)

Defn: A fine, small line, fastened to a hawk's leash, when it is
first lured.

CREANCE
Cre"ance (kr*"ans), v. i. & t.

Defn: To get on credit; to borrow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CREANT
Cre"ant (kr"ant), a. Etym: [L. creans, p. pr. of creare to create.]

Defn: Creative; formative. [R.] Mrs. Browning.

CREASE
Crease (krs), n.

Defn: See Creese. Tennison.

CREASE
Crease, n. Etym: [Cf. LG. krus, G. krause, crispness, krausen, kr, to
crisp, curl, lay on folds; or perh. of Celtic origin; cf. Armor.kriz
a wrinkle, crease, kriza to wrinkle, fold, W. crych a wrinkle, crychu
to rumple, ripple, crease.]

1. A line or mark made by folding or doubling any pliable substance;
hence, a similar mark, howewer produced.

2. (Cricket)

Defn: One of the lines serving to define the limits of the bowler and
the striker. Bowling crease (Cricket), a line extending three feet
four inches on each side of the central strings at right angles to
the line between the wickets.
 -- Return crease (Cricket), a short line at each end of the bowling
crease and at right angles to it, extending toward the bowler.
 -- Popping crease (Cricket),, a line drawn in front of the wicket,
four feet distant from it, parallel to the bowling crease and at
least as long as the latter. J. H. Walsh (Encyc. of Rural Sports).

CREASE
Crease, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Creased (krst); p. pr. & vb. n.
Creasing.]

Defn: To make a crease or mark in, as by folding or doubling.
Creased, like dog's ears in a folio. Gray.

CREASER
Creas"er (krs"r), n.

1. A tool, or a sewing-mashine attachment, for making lines or
creases on leather or cloth, as guides to sew by.

2. A tool for making creases or beads, as in sheet iron, or for
rounding small tubes.

3. (Bookbinding)

Defn: A tool for making the band impression distinct on the back.
Knight.

CREASING
Creas"ing (krs"ng), n. (Arch.)

Defn: A layer of tiles forming a corona for a wall.

CREASOTE
Cre"a*sote (kr"-st), n.

Defn: See Creosote.

CREASY
Creas"y (krs"), a.

Defn: Full of creases. Tennyson.

CREAT
Cre"at (kr"t), n. Etym: [F. cr, ultimateli fr. L. creatus created,
begotten; cf. It. creato pupil, servant, Sp. criado a servant,
client.] (Man.)

Defn: An usher to a riding master.

CREATABLE
Cre*at"a*ble (kr-"t-b'l), a.

Defn: That may be created.

CREATE
Cre*ate" (kr-t"), a.Etym: [L. creatus, p. p. of creare to create;
akin to Gr. k to make, and to E. ending -cracy in aristocracy, also
to crescent, cereal.]

Defn: Created; composed; begotte. [Obs.]
Hearts create of duty and zeal. Shak.

CREATE
Cre*ate", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Created;p. pr. & vb. n. Creating.]

1. To bring into being; to form out of nothing; to cause to exist.
In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. Gen. i. 1.

2. To effect by the agency, and under the laws, of causation; to be
the occasion of; to cause; to produce; to form or fashion; to renew.
Your eye in Scotland Would create soldiers. Shak.
Create in me a clean heart. Ps. li. 10.

3. To invest with a new form, office, or character; to constitute; to
appoint; to make; as, to create one a peer. "I create you companions
to our person." Shak.

CREATIC
Cre*at"ic (kr-t"k), a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Relating to, or produced by, flesh or animal food; as, creatic
nausea. [Written also kreatic.]

CREATIN
Cre"a*tin (kr"-tn), n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance found abundantly in
muscle tissue. [Written also kreatine.]

CREATININ
Cre*at"i*nin (kr-t"-nn), n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, nitrogenous body closely related to
creatin but more basic in its properties, formed from the latter by
the action of acids, and occurring naturally in muscle tissue and in
urine. [Written also kretinine.]

CREATION
Cre*a"tion (kr-A"shn), n. Etym: [L. creatio: cf. F. cr. See Create.]

1. The act of creating or causing to exist. Specifically, the act of
bringing the universe or this world into existence.
From the creation to the general doom. Shak.
As when a new particle of matter dotn begin to exist, in rerum
natura, which had before no being; and this we call creation. Locke.

2. That which is created; that which is produced or caused to exist,
as the world or some original work of art or of the imagination;
nature.
We know that the whole creation groaneth. Rom. viii. 22.
A dagger of the mind, a false creation. Shak.
Choice pictures and creations of curious art. Beaconsfield.

3. The act of constituting or investing with a new character;
appointment; formation.
An Irish peer of recent creation. Landor.

CREATIONAL
Cre*a"tion*al (-al), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to creation.

CREATIONISM
Cre*a"tion*ism (-z'm), n.

Defn: The doctrine that a soul is specially created for each human
being as soon as it is formed in the womb; -- opposed to
traducianism.

CREATIVE
Cre*a"tive (-tv), a.

Defn: Having the power to create; exerting the act of creation.
"Creative talent." W. Irving.
The creative force exists in the germ. Whewell.

CREATIVENESS
Cre*a"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The qualiyu of being creative.

CREATOR
Crea*"tor (kr-"tr), n. Etym: [L. creator: cf. F. cr.]

Defn: One who creates, produces, or constitutes. Specifically, the
Supreme Being.
To sin's rebuke and my Creater's praise. Shak.
The poets and artists of Greece, who are at the same time its
prophets, the creators of its divinities, and the revealers of its
theological beliefs. Caird.

CREATORSHIP
Cre*a"tor*ship, n.

Defn: State or condition of a creator.

CREATRESS
Cre*a"tress, n. Etym: [L. creatrix: cf. F. cr.]

Defn: She who creates. Spenser.

CREATRIX
Cre*a"trix (-trks), n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A creatress. [R.]

CREATURAL
Crea"tur*al (kr"tr-al; 135), a.

Defn: Belonging to a creature; having the qualities of a creature.
[R.]

CREATURE
Crea"ture (kr"tr; 135), n. Etym: [F. cr, L. creatura. See Create.]

1. Anything created; anything not self-existent; especially, any
being created with life; an animal; a man.
He asked water, a creature so common and needful that it was against
the law of nature to deny him. Fuller.
God's first creature was light. Bacon.
On earth, join, all ye creatures, to extol Him first, him last, him
midst, and without end. Milton.
And most attractive is the fair result Of thought, the creature of a
polished mind. Cowper.

2. A human being, in pity, contempt, or endearment; as, a poor
creature; a pretty creature.
The world hath not a sweeter creature. Shak.

3. A person who owes his rise and fortune to another; a servile
dependent; an instrument; a tool.
A creature of the queen's, Lady Anne Bullen. Shak.
Both Charles himself and his creature, Laud. Macualay.

4. A general term among farmers for horses, oxen, etc. Creature
comforts, those which minister to the comfort of the body.

CREATURELESS
Crea"ture*less, a.

Defn: Without created beings; alone.
God was alone And creatureless at first. Donne.

CREATURELY
Crea"ture*ly, a.

Defn: Creatural; characteristic of a creature. [R.] "Creaturely
faculties." Cheyne.

CREATURESHIP
Crea"ture*ship, n.

Defn: The condition of being a creature.

CREATURIZE
Crea"tur*ize (-z), v. t.

Defn: To make like a creature; to degrade [Obs.]
Degrade and creaturize that mundane soul. Cudworth.

CREAZE
Creaze (krz), n. (Mining)

Defn: The tin ore which collects in the central part of the washing
pit or buddle.

CREBRICOSTATE
Cre`bri*cos"tate (kr`br-ks"tt), a. Etym: [L. creber close + costa
rib.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Marked with closely set ribs or ridges.

CREBRISULCATE
Cre`bri*sul"cate (kr`br-sl"kt), a. Etym: [L. creber close + sulcus
furrow.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Marked with closely set transverse furrows.

CREBRITUDE
Creb"ri*tude (krb"r-td), n. Etym: [L. crebritudo, fr. creber close.]

Defn: Frequency. [Obs.] Bailey.

CREBROUS
Cre"brous (kr"brs), a. Etym: [L. creber close set, frequent.]

Defn: Frequent; numerous. [Obs.] Goodwin.

CRECHE
Creche (krsh), n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A public nursery, where the young children of poor women are
cared for during the day, while their mothers are at work.

CREDENCE
Cre"dence (kr"dens), n. Etym: [LL. credentia, fr. L. credens, -entis,
p. pr. of credere to trust, believe: cf. OF. credence. See Creed, and
cf. Credent, Creance.]

1. Reliance of the mind on evidence of facts derived from other
sources than personal knowledge; belief; credit; confidence.
To give credence to the Scripture miracles. Trench.
An assertion which might easily find credence. Macualay.

2. That which gives a claim to credit, belief, or confidence; as, a
letter of credence.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: The small table by the side of the altar or communion table, on
which the bread and wine are placed before being consecrated.

4. A cupboard, sideboard, or cabinet, particularly one intended for
the display of rich vessels or plate, and consisting chiefly of open
shelves for that purpose.

CREDENCE
Cre"dence, v. t.

Defn: To give credence to; to believe. [Obs.]

CREDENDUM
Cre*den"dum (kr-dn"dm), n.;pl. Credenda (-d. Etym: [L., fr. credere
to belive.] (Theol.)

Defn: A thing to be believed; an article of faith; -- distinguished
from agendum, a practical duty.
The great articles and credenda of Christianity. South.

CREDENT
Cre"dent (kr"dent), a. Etym: [. credens, -entis, p. pr. of credere to
trust, believe. See Creed.]

1. Believing; giving credence; credulous. [R.]
If with too credent esr you list songs. Shak.

2. Having credit or authority; credible. [Obs.]
For my authority bears of a credent bulk. Shak.

CREDENTIAL
Cre*den"tial (kr-dn"shal), a. Etym: [Cf. It. credenziale, fr. LL.
credentia. See Credence.]

Defn: Giving a title or claim to credit or confidence; accrediting.
Their credential letters on both sides. Camden.

CREDENTIAL
Cre*den"tial, n. Etym: [Cf. It. credenziale.]

1. That which gives a title to credit or confidence.

2. pl.

Defn: Testimonials showing that a person is entitled to credit, or
has right to exercise official power, as the letters given by a
government to an ambassador or envoy, or a certificate that one is a
duly elected delegate.
The committee of estates excepted against the credentials of the
English commissioners. Whitelocke.
Had they not shown undoubted credentials from the Divine Person who
sent them on such a message. Addison.

CREDIBILITY
Cred`i*bil"i*ty (krd`-bl"-t), n. Etym: [Cf. F. cr.]

Defn: The quality of being credible; credibleness; as, the
credibility of facts; the credibility of witnesses.

CREDIBLE
Cred"i*ble (krd"-b'l), a. Etym: [L. credibilis, fr. credere. See
Creed.]

Defn: Capable of being credited or believed; worthy of belief;
entiled to confidence; trustworthy.
Things are made credible either by the known condition and quality of
the utterer or by the manifest likelihood of truth in themselves.
Hooker.
A very diligent and observing person, and likewise very sober and
credible. Dampier.

CREDIBLENESS
Cred"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being credible; worthness of belief;
credibility. [R.] Boyle.

CREDIBLY
Cred"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner inducing belief; as, I have been credibly informed
of the event.

CREDIT
Cred"it (krd"t), n. Etym: [F. cr (cf. It. credito), L. creditum loan,
prop. neut. of creditus, p. p. of credere to trust, loan, believe.
See Creed.]

1. Reliance on the truth of something said or done; belief; faith;
trust; confidence.
When Jonathan and the people heard these words they gave no credit
into them, nor received them. 1 Macc. x. 46.

2. Reputation derived from the confidence of others; esteem; honor;
good name; estimation.
John Gilpin was a citizen Of credit and renown. Cowper.

3. A ground of, or title to, belief or confidence; authority derived
from character or reputation.
The things which we properly believe, be only such as are received on
the credit of divine testimony. Hooker.

4. That which tends to procure, or add to, reputation or esteem; an
honor.
I published, because I was told I might please such as it was a
credit to please. Pope.

5. Influence derived from the good opinion, confidence, or favor of
others; interest.
Having credit enough with his master to provide for his own interest.
Clarendon.

6. (Com.)

Defn: Trust given or received; expectation of future playment for
property transferred, or of fulfillment or promises given; mercantile
reputation entitling one to be trusted; -- applied to individuals,
corporations, communities, or nations; as, to buy goods on credit.
Credit is nothing but the expectation of money, within some limited
time. Locke.

7. The time given for payment for lands or goods sold on trust; as, a
long credit or a short credit.

8. (Bookkeeping)

Defn: The side of an account on which are entered all items reckoned
as values received from the party or the category named at the head
of the account; also, any one, or the sum, of these items; -- the
opposite of debit; as, this sum is carried to one's credit, and that
to his debit; A has several credits on the books of B. Bank credit,
or Cash credit. See under Cash.
 -- Bill of credit. See under Bill.
 -- Letter of credit, a letter or notification addressed by a banker
to his correspondent, informing him that the person named therein is
entitled to draw a certain sum of money; when addressed to several
different correspondents, or when the money can be drawn in
fractional sums in several different places, it is called a circular
letter of credit.
 -- Public credit. (a) The reputation of, or general confidence in,
the ability or readiness of a government to fulfull its pecuniary
engagements. (b) The ability and fidelity of merchants or others who
owe largely in a community.
He touched the dead corpse of Public Credit, and it sprung upon its
feet. D. Webster.

CREDIT
Cred"it (krd"t), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Credited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Crediting.]

1. To confide in the truth of; to give credence to; to put trust in;
to believe.
How shall they credit A poor unlearned virgin Shak.

2. To bring honor or repute upon; to do credit to; to raise the
estimation of.
You credit the church as much by your government as you did the
school formerly by your wit. South.

3. (Bookkeeping)

Defn: To enter upon the credit side of an account; to give credit
for; as, to credit the amount paid; to set to the credit of; as, to
credit a man with the interest paid on a bond. To credit with, to
give credit for; to assign as justly due to any one.
Crove, Helmholtz, and Meyer, are more than any others to be credited
with the clear enunciation of this doctrine. Newman.

CREDITABLE
Cred"it*a*ble (--b'l), a.

1. Worthy of belief. [Obs.]
Divers creditable witnesses deposed. Ludlow.

2. Deserving or possessing reputation or esteem; reputable;
estimable.
This gentleman was born of creditable parents. Goldsmith.

3. Bringing credit, reputation, or honor; honorable; as, such conduct
is highly creditable to him. Macualay.
He settled him in a good creditable way of living. Arbuthnot.

CREDITABLENESS
Cred"it*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being creditable.

CREDITABLY
Cred"it*a*bly (--bl), adv.

Defn: In a creditable manner; reputably; with credit.

CREDIT FONCIER
Cre`dit" fon`cier" (krd" fn`s"). Etym: [F. cr credit & foncier
relating to land, landed.]

Defn: A company licensed for the purpose of carrying out
improvements, by means of loans and advances upon real securities. ]

CREDIT MOBILIER
Cre`dit" mo`bi`lier" (m`b`ly"). Etym: [F. cr credit & mobilier
personal, pertaining to personal property.]

Defn: A joint stock company, formed for general banking business, or
for the construction of public works, by means of loans on personal
estate, after the manner of the crédit foncier on real estate. In
practice, however, this distinction has not been strictly observed.

CREDITOR
Cred"it*or (krd"t-r), n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. cr. See Credit.]

1. One who credits, believes, or trusts.
The easy creditors of novelties. Daniel.

2. One who gives credit in business matters; hence, one to whom money
is due; -- correlative to debtor.
Creditors have better memories than debtors. Franklin.

CREDITRESS; CREDITRIX
Cred"it*ress (krd"t-rs), Cred"i*trix (krd"-trks), n. Etym: [L.
creditrix.]

Defn: A female creditor.

CREDO
Cre"do (kr"d), n. Etym: [L. See Creed.]

Defn: The creed, as sung or read in the Roman Catholic church.
He repeated Aves and Credos. Macualay.

CREDULITY
Cre*du"li*ty (kr-d"l-t), n. Etym: [L. credulitas, fr. credulus: cf.
F. cr. See Credulous.]

Defn: Readiness of belief; a disposition to believe on slight
evidence.
That implict credulity is the mark of a feeble mind will not be
disputed. Sir W. Hamilton.

CREDULOUS
Cred"u*lous (krd"-ls; 135), a. Etym: [L. credulus, fr. credere. See
Creed.]

1. Apt to believe on slight evidence; easly imposed upon;
unsuspecting. Landor.
Eve, our credulous mother. Milton.

2. Believed too readily. [Obs.] Beau & Fl.

CREDULOUSLY
Cred"u*lous*ly, adv.

Defn: With credulity.

CREDULOUSNESS
Cred"u*lous*ness, n.

Defn: Readiness to believe on slight evidence; credulity.
Beyond all credulity is the credulousness of atheists. S. Clarke.

CREED
Creed (krd), n. Etym: [OE. credo, crede, AS. creda, fr. L. credo I
believe, at the beginning of the Apostles' creed, fr. credere to
believe; akin to OIr. cretin I believe, and Skr. ; crat trust + dh to
put. See Do, v. t., and cf. Credo, Grant.]

1. A definite summary of what is believed; esp., a summary of the
articles of Christian faith; a confession of faith for public use;
esp., one which is brief and comprehensive.
In the Protestant system the creed is not coördinate with, but always
subordinate to, the Bible. Schaff-Herzog Encyc.

2. Any summary of principles or opinions professed or adhered to.
I love him not, nor fear him; there's my creed. Shak.
Apostles' creed, Athanasian creed, Nicene creed. See under Apostle,
Athanasian, Nicene.

CREED
Creed, v. t.

Defn: To believe; to credit. [Obs.]
That part which is so creeded by the people. Milton.

CREEDLESS
Creed"less, a.

Defn: Without a creed. Carlyle.

CREEK
Creek (krk), n. Etym: [AS. crecca; akin to D. kreek, Icel. kriki
crack, nook; cf. W. crig crack, crigyll ravine, creek. Cf. Crick,
Crook.]

1. A small inlet or bay, narrower and extending further into the land
than a cove; a recess in the shore of the sea, or of a river.
Each creek and cavern of the dangerous shore. Cowper.
They discovered a certain creek, with a shore. Acts xxvii. 39.

2. A stream of water smaller than a river and larger than a brook.
Lesser streams and rivulets are denominated creeks. Goldsmith.

3. Any turn or winding.
The passages of alleys, creeks, and narrow lands. Shak.

CREEKFISH
Creek"fish (krk"fsh), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The chub sucker.

CREEKS
Creeks (krks), n. pl.; sing. Creek. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe or confederacy of North American Indians, including the
Muskogees, Seminoles, Uchees, and other subordinate tribes. They
formerly inhabited Georgia, Florida, and Alabama.

CREEKY
Creek"y (krk"), a.

Defn: Containing, or abounding in, creeks; characterized by creeks;
like a creek; winding. "The creeky shore." Spenser.

CREEL
Creel (krl), n. Etym: [Gael. craidhleag basket, creel.]

1. An osier basket, such as anglers use. Sir W. Scott.

2. (Spinning)

Defn: A bar or set of bars with skewers for holding paying-off
bobbins, as in the roving machine, throstle, and mule.

CREEP
Creep (krp), v. t. [imp. Crept (krpt) (Crope (kr, Obs.); p. p. Crept;
p. pr. & vb. n. Creeping.] Etym: [OE. crepen, creopen, AS. cre; akin
to D. kruipen, G. kriechen, Icel. krjupa, Sw. krypa, Dan. krybe. Cf.
Cripple, Crouch.]

1. To move along the ground, or on any other surface, on the belly,
as a worm or reptile; to move as a child on the hands and knees; to
crawl.
Ye that walk The earth, and stately tread, or lowly creep. Milton.

2. To move slowly, feebly, or timorously, as from unwillingness,
fear, or weakness.
The whining schoolboy . . . creeping, like snail, Unwillingly to
school. Shak.
Like guilty thing, Icreep. Tennyson.

3. To move in a stealthy or secret manner; to move imperceptibly or
clandestinely; to steal in; to insinuate itself or one's self; as,
age creeps upon us.
The sothistry which creeps into most of the books of argument. Locke.
Of this sort are they which creep into houses, and lead captive silly
women. 2. Tim. iii. 6.

4. To slip, or to become slightly displaced; as, the collodion on a
negative, or a coat of varnish, may creep in drying; the quicksilver
on a mirror may creep.

5. To move or behave with servility or exaggerated humility; to fawn;
as, a creeping sycophant.
To come as humbly as they used to creep. Shak.

6. To grow, as a vine, clinging to the ground or to some other
support by means of roots or rootlets, or by tendrils, along its
length. "Creeping vines." Dryden.

7. To have a sensation as of insects creeping on the skin of the
body; to crawl; as, the sight made my flesh creep. See Crawl, v.
i.,4.

8. To drag in deep water with creepers, as for recovering a submarine
cable.

CREEP
Creep, n.

1. The act or process of creeping.

2. A distressing sensation, or sound, like that occasioned by the
creeping of insects.
A creep of undefinable horror. Blackwood's Mag.
Out of the stillness, with gathering creep, Like rising wind in
leaves. Lowell.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A slow rising of the floor of a gallery, occasioned by the
pressure of incumbent strata upon the pillars or sides; a gradual
movement of mining ground.

CREEPER
Creep"er (krp"r), n.

1. One who, or that which, creeps; any creeping thing.
Standing waters are most unwholesome, . . . full of mites,creepers;
slimy, muddy, unclean. Burton.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant that clings by rootlets, or by tendrils, to the ground,
or to trees, etc.; as, the Virginia creeper (Ampelopsis
quinquefolia).

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small bird of the genus Certhia, allied to the wrens. The
brown or common European creeper is C. familiaris, a variety of which
(var. Americana) inhabits America; -- called also tree creeper and
creeptree. The American black and white creeper is Mniotilta varia.

4. A kind of patten mounted on short pieces of iron instead of rings;
also, a fixture with iron points worn on a shoe to prevent one from
slipping.

5. pl.

Defn: A spurlike device strapped to the boot, which enables one to
climb a tree or pole; -- called often telegraph creepers.

6. A small, low iron, or dog, between the andirons.

7. pl.

Defn: An instrument with iron hooks or claws for dragging at the
bottom of a well, or any other body of water, and bringing up what
may lie there.

8. Any device for causing material to move steadily from one part of
a machine to another, as an apron in a carding machine, or an inner
spiral in a grain screen.

9. pl. (Arch.)

Defn: Crockets. See Crocket.

CREEPHOLE
Creep"hole` (-hl`), n.

1. A hole or retreat onto which an animal may creep, to escape notice
or danger.

2. A subterfuge; an excuse.

CREEPIE
Creep"ie (-), n.

Defn: A low stool. [Scot.]

CREEPINESS
Creep"i*ness (--ns), n.

Defn: An uneasy sensation as of insects creeping on the skin.
She felt a curious, uneasy creepiness. Mrs. Alexander.

CREEPING
Creep"ing, a.

1. Crawling, or moving close to the ground. "Every creeping thing."
Gen. vi. 20.

2. Growing along, and clinging to, the ground, or to a wall, etc., by
means of rootlets or tendrils.
Casements lined with creeping herbs. Cowper.
Ceeping crowfoot (Bot.), a plant, the Ranunculus repens.- Creeping
snowberry, an American plant (Chiogenes hispidula) with white berries
and very small round leaves having the flavor of wintergreen.

CREEPING CHARLIE
Creep"ing Char"lie.

Defn: The stonecrop (Sedum acre).

CREEPINGLY
Creep"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: by creeping slowly; in the manner of a reptile; insidiously;
cunningly.
How slily and creepingly did he address himself to our first parents.
South.

CREEPLE
Cree"ple (kr"p'l), n. Etym: [See Cripple.]

1. A creeping creature; a reptile. [Obs.]
There is one creeping beast, or long creeple (as the name is in
Devonshire), that hath a rattle at his tail that doth discover his
age. Morton (1632).

2. One who is lame; a cripple. [Obs.]
Thou knowest how lame a creeple this world is. Donne.

CREEPY
Creep"y (krp"), a.

Defn: Crawly; having or producing a sensation like that caused by
insects creeping on the skin. [Colloq.]
One's whole blood grew curdling and creepy. R. Browning.

CREES
Crees (krz), n. pl.; sing. Cree. (Ethnol.)

Defn: An Algonquin tribe of Indians, inhabiting a large part of
British America east of the Rocky Mountains and south of Hudson's
Bay.

CREESE
Creese (krs), n. Etym: [Malay. kris.]

Defn: A dagger or short sword used by the Malays, commonly having a
serpentine blade. [Written also crease and kris.]
From a Malayan creese to a sailor's jackknife. Julian Hawthorne.

CREMAILLERE
Cré`mail`lère" (kr`m`lyr" or -m`yr"), n. Etym: [F.] (Fort.)

Defn: An indented or zigzaged line of intrenchment.

CREMASTER
Cre*mas"ter (kr-ms"tr), n. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A thin muscle which serves to draw up the testicle.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The apex of the last abdominal segment of an insect.

CREMASTERIC
Crem`as*ter"ic (krm`3s-tr"k), a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cremaster; as, the cremasteric artery.

CREMATE
Cre"mate (kr"mt or kr-mt"), v. t. Etym: [L. crematus, p. p. of
cremare to burn; cf. Skr. cr to cook.]

Defn: To burn; to reduce to ashes by the action of fire, either
directly or in an oven or retort; to incremate or incinerate; as, to
cremate a corpse, instead of burying it.

CREMATION
Cre*ma"tion (kr-m"shn), n. Etym: [L. crematio.]

Defn: A burning; esp., the act or practice of cremating the dead.
Without cremation . . . of their bodies. Sir T. Browne.

CREMATIONIST
Cre*ma"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who advocates the practice of cremation.

CREMATOR
Cre*ma"tor (-tr), n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who, or that which, cremmates or consumes to ashes.

CREMATORIUM; CREMATORY
Crem`a*to"ri*um (krm`-t"r-m), Crem"a*to*ry (krm"-t-r), n.; pl.
Crematoriums (-Crematories (-r. Etym: [NL. crematorium, fr. L.
cremator.]

Defn: A furnace for cremating corpses; a building containing such a
furnace.

CREMATORY
Crem"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or employed in, cremation.

CREME
Crême, n. [F.]

Defn: Cream; -- a term used esp. in cookery, names of liqueurs, etc.

CREMOCARP
Crem"o*carp (krm"-krp or kr"m-), n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The peculiar fruit of fennel, carrott, parsnip, and the like,
consisting of a pair of carpels pendent from a supporting axis.

CREMONA
Cre*mo"na (kr-m"n), n.

Defn: A superior kind of violin, formerly made at Cremona, in Italy.

CREMOR
Cre"mor (kr"mr), n. Etym: [L. CF. Cream.]

Defn: Cream; a substance resembling cream; yeast; scum.

CREMOSIN
Crem"o*sin (krm"-sn), n.

Defn: See Crimson. [Obs.]

CREMS
Crems (krmz), n.

Defn: See Krems.

CRENATE; CRENATED
Cre"nate (krnt), Cre"na*ted (kr"n-td), a. Etym: [L. crena notch. See
Cranny.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the margin cut into rounded teeth notches, or scallops.

CRENATION
Cre*na"tion (kr-n"shn), n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A rounded tooth on the edge of a leaf.

2. The condition of being crenate.

CRENATURE
Cren"a*ture (krn"-tr or kr"n-; 135), n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A rounded tooth or notch of a crenate leaf, or any part that is
crenate; -- called also crenelle.

2. The state of being crenated or notched.

CRENEL
Cre*nel" (kr-nl"), n.

Defn: See Crenelle.

CRENELATE
Cren"el*ate (krn"l-t or kr"nl-t), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crenelated (-
`td); p. pr. & vb. n. Crenelating (-`tng).] Etym: [LL. crenellare,
kernellare: cf. F. cr to indent. See Crenelle.] [Written also
crenellate.]

1. To furnish with crenelles.

2. To indent; to notch; as, a crenelated leaf. Crenelated molding
(Arch.), a kind of indented molding used in Norman buildings.

CRENELATION
Cren`el*a"tion (-"shn), n.

Defn: The act of crenelating, or the state of being crenelated; an
indentation or an embrasure. [Written also crenellation.]

CRENELLE; CRENEL
Cre*nelle", Cre*nel" (kr-nl"), n. Etym: [OF. crenel, F. cr, LL.
crenellus, kernellus, dim. (prob.) fr. L. crena notch. See Crenny.]

1. An embrasure or indentation in a battlement; a loophole in a
fortress; an indentation; a notch. See Merlon, and Illust. of
Battlement.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Crenature.

CRENELLED
Cre*nelled" (kr a. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Crenate.

CRENGLE; CRENKLE
Cren"gle (krn"g'l), Cren"kle (-k'l), n.

Defn: See Cringle.

CRENULATE; CRENULATED
Cren"u*late (krn"-lt), Cren"u*la`ted (-l`td), a. Etym: [Dim. of
crenate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Minutely crenate.

CRENULATION
Cren`u*la"tion (-l"shn), n.

1. A minute crenation.

2. The state of being minutely scalloped.

CREOLE
Cre"ole (kr"l), n. Etym: [F. cr, Sp. criollo, from an American negro
word, perh. a corruption of a Sp. criadillo, dim. of criado servant,
formerly also, child, fr. L. creatus, p. p. of creare to create. Cf.
Create.]

Defn: One born of European parents in the American colonies of France
or Spain or in the States which were once such colonies, esp. a
person of French or Spanish descent, who is a native inhabitant of
Louisiana, or one of the States adjoining, bordering on the Gulf of
of Mexico.

Note: "The term creole negro is employed in the English West Indies
to distinguish the negroes born there from the Africans imported
during the time of the slave trade. The application of this term to
the colored people has led to an idea common in some parts of the
United States, though wholly unfounded, that it implies an admixture
greater or less of African blood." R. Hildreth.

Note: "The title [Creole] did not first belong to the descendants of
Spanish, but of French, settlers, But such a meaning implied a
certain excellence of origin, and so came early to include any native
of French or Spanish descent by either parent, whose nonalliance with
the slave race entitled him to social rank. Later, the term was
adopted by, not conceded to, the natives of mixed blood, and is still
so used among themselves. . . . Besides French and Spanish, there are
even, for convenience of speech, 'colored' Creoles; but there are no
Italian, or Sicilian, nor any English, Scotch, Irish, or 'Yankee'
Creoles, unless of parentage married into, and themselves thoroughly
proselyted in, Creole society." G. W. Cable.

CREOLE
Cre"ole (kr"l), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a Creole or the Creoles.

Note: In New Orleans the word Creole is applied to any product, or
variety of manufacture, peculiar to Louisiana; as, Creole ponies,
chickens, cows, shoes, eggs, wagons, baskets, etc.

CREOLEAN; CREOLIAN
Cre*o"le*an (kr-"l-an), Cre*o"li*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Creoles.
 -- n.

Defn: A Creole.

CREOLE STATE
Creole State.

Defn: Louisiana; -- a nickname. See Creole, n. & a.

CREOSOL
Cre"o*sol (kr"-sl), n. Etym: [Cresote + phenol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless liquid resembling phenol or carbolic acid,
homologous with pyrocatechin, and obtained from beechwood tar and gum
guaiacum. [Written also creasol.]

CREOSOTE
Cre"o*sote (kr"-st), n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Wood-tar oil; an oily antiseptic liquid, of a burning smoky
taste, colorless when pure, but usually colored yellow or brown by
impurity or exposure. It is a complex mixture of various phenols and
their ethers, and is obtained by the distillation of wood tar,
especially that of beechwood.

Note: It is remarkable as an antiseptic and deodorizer in the
preservation of wood, flesh, etc., and in the prevention of
putrefaction; but it is a poor germicide, and in this respect has
been overrated. Smoked meat, as ham, owes its preservation and taste
to a small quantity of creosote absorbed from the smoke to which it
is exposed. Carbolic acid is phenol proper, while creosote is a
mixture of several phenols. Coal-tar creosote (Chem.), a colorless or
yellow, oily liquid, obtained in the distillation of coal tar, and
resembling wood-tar oil, or creosote proper, in composition and
properties.

CREOSOTE
Cre"o*sote, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Creosoted (-s"td); p. pr. & vb. n.
Creosoting.]

Defn: To saturate or impregnate with creosote, as timber, for the
prevention of decay.

CREOSOTE BUSH
Cre"o*sote bush.

Defn: A shrub (Covillea mexicana) found in desert regions from
Colorado to California and southward through Mexico. It has yellow
flowers and very resinous foliage with a strong odor of creosote.

CREPANCE; CREPANE
Cre"pance (kr"pans), Cre"pane (kr"pn), n. Etym: [Cf. L. crepare to
crack.] (Far.)

Defn: An injury in a horse's leg, caused by the shoe of one hind foot
striking and cutting the other leg. It sometimes forms an ulcer.

CREPE
Crêpe (krp), n.

Defn: Same as Crape.

CREPITANT
Crep"i*tant (krp"-tant), a. Etym: [See Crepitate.]

Defn: Having a crackling sound; crackling; rattling. Crepitant rale
(Med.), a peculiar crackling sound audible with inspiration in
pneumonia and other lung disease.

CREPITATE
Crep"i*tate (kr, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Crepitated (-t; p. pr. & vb. n.
Crepitating (-t.] Etym: [L. crepitatus, p. p. of crepitare to
crackle, v. intensive of crepare to crack. Cf. Crevice.]

Defn: To make a series of small, sharp, rapidly repeated explosions
or sounds, as salt in fire; to crackle; to snap.

CREPITATION
Crep`i*ta"tion (krp`-t"shn), n. Etym: [Cf. F. crépitation.]

1. The act of crepitating or crackling.

2. (Med.)
(a) A grating or crackling sensation or sound, as that produced by
rubbing two fragments of a broken bone together, or by pressing upon
cellular tissue containing air.
(b) A crepitant râle.

CREPITUS
Crep"i*tus (krp"-ts), n. Etym: [L., fr. crepare to crack.] (Med.)
(a) The noise produced bu a sudden discharge of wind from the bowels.
(b) Same as Crepitation, 2.

CREPON
Cre"pon (kr"pn; F. kr`pn"), n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A thin stuff made of the finest wool or silk, or of wool and
silk.

CREPT
Crept (krpt),

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Creep.

CREPUSCLE; CREPUSCULE
Cre*pus"cle (kr-ps"s'l), Cre*pus"cule (kr-ps"kl), n. Etym: [L.
crepusculum, fr. creper dusky, dark: cf. F. cr.]

Defn: Twilight. Bailey.

CREPUSCULAR; CREPUSCULOUS
Cre*pus"cu*lar (-k-lr), Cre*pus"cu*lous (-ls), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cr.]

1. Pertaining to twilight; glimmering; hence, imperfectly clear or
luminous.
This semihistorical and crepuscular period. Sir G. C. Lewis.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Flying in the twilight or evening, or before sunrise; -- said
certain birds and insects.
Others feed only in the twilight, as bats and owls, and are called
crepuscular. Whewell.

CREPUSCULINE
Cre*pus"cu*line, a.

Defn: Crepuscular. [Obs.] Sprat.

CRESCENCE
Cres"cence (krs"sens), n. Etym: [See Crescent.]

Defn: Increase; enlargement. [Obs.]
And toward the moon's attractive crescence bend. H. Brooke.

CRESCENDO
Cres*cen"do (krs-sn"d; It. kr-shn"d), a. & adv. Etym: [It., from
crescere to increase. See Crescent.] (Mus.)

Defn: With a constantly increasing volume of voice; with gradually
increasing strength and fullness of tone; -- a direction for the
performance of music, indicated by the mark, or by writing the word
on the score.

CRESCENDO
Cres*cen"do, n. (Mus.)
(a) A gradual increase in the strength and fullness of tone with
which a passage is performed.
(b) A pssage to be performed with constantly increasing volume of
tone.

CRESCENT
Cres"cent (krs"sent), n. Etym: [OE. cressent, cressaunt, crescent (in
sense 1), OF. creissant increasing, F. croissant, p. pr. of cro, OF.
creistre, fr. L. crescere to increase, v. incho.; akin to creare to
create. See Create, and cf. Accrue, Increase, Crescendo.]

1. The increasing moon; the moon in her first quarter, or when
defined by a concave and a convex edge; also, applied improperly to
the old or decreasing moon in a like state.

2. Anything having the shape of a crescent or new moon.

3. A representation of the increasing moon, often used as an emblem
or badge; as:
(a) A symbol of Artemis, or Diana.
(b) The ancient symbol of Byzantium or Constantinople. Hence:
(c) The emblem of the Turkish Empire, adopted after the taking of
Constantinople.
The cross of our faith is replanted, The pale, dying crescent is
daunted. Campbell.

4. Any one of three orders of knighthood; the first instituted by
Charles I., king of Naples and Sicily, in 1268; the second by René of
Anjou, in 1448; and the third by the Sultan Selim III., in 1801, to
be conferred upon foreigners to whom Turkey might be indebted for
valuable services. Brande & C.

5. (Her.)

Defn: The emblem of the increasing moon with horns directed upward,
when used in a coat of arms; -- often used as a mark of cadency to
distinguish a second son and his descendants.

CRESCENT
Cres"cent (krs"sent), a.

1. Shaped like a crescent.
Astarte, queen of heaven, with crescent horns. Milton.

2. Increasing; growing.
O, I see the crescent promise of my spirit hath not set. Tennyson.

CRESCENT
Cres"cent, v. t.

1. To form into a crescent, or something resembling a crescent. [R.]
Anna Seward.

2. To adorn with crescents.

CRESCENTIC
Cres*cen"tic (krs-sn"tk), a.

Defn: Crescent-shaped. "Crescentic lobes." R. Owen.

CRESCENTWISE
Cres"cent*wise` (krs"sent-wz`), adv.

Defn: In the form of a crescent; like a crescent. Tennyson.

CRESCIVE
Cres"cive (krs"sv), a. Etym: [L. crescere to increase.]

Defn: Increasing; growing. [R.]
Unseen, yet crescive in his faculty. Shak.

CRESOL
Cre"sol (kr"sl), n. Etym: [From Creosote.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of three metameric substances, CH3.C6H4.OH, homologous
with and resembling phenol. They are obtained from coal tar and wood
tar, and are colorless, oily liquids or solids.

Note: [Called also cresylic acid.]

CRESORCIN
Cre*sor"cin (kr-sr"sn), n. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Isorcin.

CRESS
Cress (krs), n.; pl. Cresses (kr. Etym: [OE. ces, cresse, kers,
kerse, AS. cresse, cerse; akin to D. kers, G. kresse, Dan. karse, Sw.
krasse, and possibly also to OHG. chresan to creep.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of various species, chiefly cruciferous. The leaves
have a moderately pungent taste, and are used as a salad and
antiscorbutic.

Note: The garden cress, called also peppergrass, is the Lepidium
sativum; the water cress is the Nasturtium officinale. Various other
plants are sometimes called cresses.
To strip the brook with mantling cresses spread. Goldsmith.
Bitter cress. See under Bitter.
 -- Not worth a cress, or "not worth a kers." a common old proverb,
now turned into the meaningless "not worth a curse." Skeat.

CRESSELLE
Cres*selle" (krs-sl"), n. Etym: [F. crécelle rattle.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A wooden rattle sometimes used as a substitute for a bell, in
the Roman Catholic church, during the latter part of Holy Week, or
the last week of Lent.

CRESSET
Cres"set (krs"st), n. Etym: [OF. crasset, cresset, sort of lamp or
torch; perh. of Dutch or German origin, and akin to E. cruse, F.
creuset crucible, E. crucible.]

1. An open frame or basket of iron, filled with combustible material,
to be burned as a beacon; an open lamp or firrepan carried on a pole
in nocturnal processions.
Starry lamps and blazing cressets, fed With naphtha and asphaltus.
Milton.
As a cresset true that darts its length Of beamy luster from a tower
of strength. Wordsworth.

2. (Coopering)

Defn: A small furnace or iron cage to hold fire for charring the
inside of a cask, and making the staves flexible. Knight.

CRESSY
Cress"y (krs"), a.

Defn: Abounding in cresses.
The cressy islets white in flower. Tennyson.

CREST
Crest (krst), n. Etym: [OF. creste, F. cr, L. crista.]

1. A tuft, or other excrescence or natural ornament, growing on
animal's head; the comb of a cock; the swelling on the head of a
serpent; the lengthened feathers of the crown or nape of bird, etc.
Darwin.
[Attack] his rising crest, and drive the serpent back. C. Pitt.

2. The plume of feathers, or other decoration, worn on a helmet; the
distinctive ornament of a helmet, indicating the rank of the weare;
hence, also, the helmet.
Stooping low his lofty crest. Sir W. Scott.
And on his head there stood upright A crest, in token of a knight.
Gower.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A bearing worn, not upon the shield, but usually above it, or
separately as an ornament for plate, liveries, and the like. It is a
relic of the ancient cognizance. See Cognizance, 4.

4. The upper curve of a horse's neck.
Throwing the base thong from his bending crest. Shak.

5. The ridge or top of wave.
Like wave with crest of sparkling foam. Sir W. Scott.

6. The summit of a hill or mountain ridge.

7. The helm or head, as typical of a high spirit; pride; courage.
Now the time is come That France must vail her lofty plumed crest.
Shak.

8. (Arch.)

Defn: The ornamental finishing which surmounts the ridge of a roof,
canopy, etc.
The finials of gables and pinnacles are sometimes called crest.
Parker.

9. (Engin.)

Defn: The top line of a slope or embankment. Crest tile, a tile made
to cover the ridge of a roof, fitting upon it like a saddle.
 -- Interior crest (Fort.), the highest line of the parapet.

CREST
Crest, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crested; p. pr. & vb. n. Cresting.]

1. To furnish with, or surmount as, a crest; to serve as a crest for.

His legs bestrid the ocean, his reared arm Crested the world. Shak.
Mid groves of clouds that crest the mountain's brow. Wordsworth.

2. To mark with lines or streaks, like, or regarded as like, waving
plumes.
Like as the shining sky in summer's night, . . . Is crested with
lines of fiery light. Spenser.

CREST
Crest (krst), v. i.

Defn: To form a crest.

CRESTED
Crest"ed (krst"d), a.

1. Having a crest.
But laced crested helm. Dryden.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a crest of feathers or hair upon the head. "The crested
bird." Dryden.

3. (Bott.)

Defn: Bearing any elevated appendage like a crest, as an elevated
line or ridge, or a tuft. Gray.

CRESTFALLEN
Crest"fall`en (-fl`'n), a.

1. With hanging head; hence, dispirited; dejected; cowed.
Let it make thee crestfullen; Ay, and allay this thy abortive pride.
Shak.

2. Having the crest, or upper part of the neck, hanging to one side;
-- said of a horse.

CRESTING
Crest"ing, n. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornamental finish on the top of a wall or ridge of a roof.

CRESTLESS
Crest"less, a.

Defn: Without a crest or escutcheon; of low birth. "Crestless
yeomen." Shak.

CRESYLIC
Cre*syl"ic (kr-sl"k), a. Etym: [From Creosote.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, cresol, creosote, etc. Cresylic
acid. (Chem.) See Cresol.

CRETACEOUS
Cre*ta"ceous (kr-t"shs), a. Etym: [L. cretaceus, fr. creta chalk. See
Crayon.]

Defn: Having the qualities of chalk;abounding with chalk; chalky; as,
cretaceous rocks and formations. See Chalk. Cretaceous acid, an old
name for carbonic acid.
 -- Cretaceous formation (Geol.), the series of strata of various
kinds, including beds of chalk, green sand, etc., formed in the
Cretaceous period; -- called also the chalk formation. See the
Diagram under Geology.
 -- Cretaceous period (Geol.), the time in the latter part of the
Mesozoic age during which the Cretaceous formation was deposited.

CRETACEOUS; CRETACIC
Cre*ta"ceous, a. Also Cre*tac"ic. (Geol.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, the period of time following
the Jurassic and preceding the Eocene.

CRETACEOUSLY
Cre*ta"ceous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a chalky manner; as chalk.

CRETAN
Cre"tan (kr"tan), a.

Defn: Pertaining to Crete, or Candia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Crete or Candia.

CRETE
Crete (krt), n. Etym: [L. Cres, Cretis.]

Defn: A Cretan

CRETIAN
Cre"tian (kr"shan), a. & n.

Defn: See Cretan.

CRETIC
Cre"tic (kr"tk), n. Etym: [L. Creticus (sc. pes foot), Gr. (Gr. &
Lat. Pros.)

Defn: A poetic foot, composed of one short syllable between two long
ones (-Bentley.

CRETICISM
Cre"ti*cism (-t-sz'm), n.

Defn: Falsehood; lying; cretism.

CRETIN
Cre"tin (kr"tn), n. Etym: [F. crétin; of uncertain origin.]

Defn: One afflicted with cretinism.

CRETINISM
Cre"tin*ism (kr"tn-*z'm), n. Etym: [F. cr.]

Defn: A condition of endemic or inherited idiocy, accompanied by
physical degeneracy and deformity (usually with goiter), frequent in
certain mountain valleys, esp. of the Alps.

CRETINOUS
Cre"tin*ous (-s), a.

Defn: Having the characteristics of a cretin. "Cretinous
stupefaction." Ruskin.

CRETISM
Cre"tism (kr"tz'm), n. Etym: [Gr. Titus i. 12.]

Defn: A Cretan practice; iying; a falsehood.

CRETONNE
Cre*tonne" (kr-tn"), n. Etym: [F., gr. Creton, its first
manufacturer.]

1. A strong white fabric with warp of hemp and welt of flax.

2. A fabric with cotton warp and woolen weft.

3. A kind of chintz with a glossy surface.

CRETOSE
Cre"tose (kr"ts), a. Etym: [L. cretosus, fr. creta chalk.]

Defn: Chalky; cretaceous. [Obs.] Ash.

CREUTZER
Creut"zer

Defn: (kroitn. See Kreutzer.

CREUX
Creux (kr), n. Etym: [F., adj., hollow, n., a hollow.]

Defn: Used in English only in the expression en creux. Thus,
engraving en creux is engraving in intaglio, or by sinking or
hollowing out the design.

CREVALLE
Cre`val*le" (kr`vl-l"), n. Etym: [Prob. of same origin as cavally.
See Cavally.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The cavally or jurel. See Cavally, and Jurel.
(b) The pompano (Trachynotus Carolinus).

CREVASSE
Cre`vasse" (kr`vs"), n. Etym: [F. See Crevice.]

1. A deep crevice or fissure, as in embankment; one of the clefts or
fissure by which the mass of a glacier is divided.

2. A breach in the levee or embankment of a river, caused by the
pressure of the water, as on the lower Mississippi. [U.S.]

CREVET
Crev"et (krv"t), n. Etym: [Cf. Creut.]

Defn: A crucible or melting pot; a cruset. Crabb.

CREVICE
Crev"ice (krv"s), n. Etym: [OE. crevace, crevice. F. crevasse, fr.
crever to break, burst, fr. L. crepare to crack,break. Cf. Craven,
Crepitate, Crevasse.]

Defn: A narrow opening resulting from a split or crack or the
separation of a junction; a cleft; a fissure; a rent.
The mouse, Behind the moldering wainscot, shrieked, Or from the
crevice peered about. Tennyson.

CREVICE
Crev"ice, v. t.

Defn: To crack; to flaw. [R.] Sir H. Wotton.

CREVICED
Crev"iced (-st), a.

Defn: Having a crevice or crevices; as, a creviced structure for
storing ears of corn.
Trickling through the creviced rock. J. Cunningham.

CREVIS
Crev"is (-s), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The crawfish. [Prov. Eng.]

CREW
Crew (kr), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Manx shearwater.

CREW
Crew (kr), n. Etym: [From older accrue accession, reAccrue,
Crescent.]

1. A company of people associated together; an assemblage; a throng.
There a noble crew Of lords and ladies stood on every side. Spenser.
Faithful to whom to thy rebellious crew Milton.

2. The company of seamen who man a ship, vessel, or at; the company
belonging to a vessel or a boat.

Note: The word crew, in law, is ordinarily used as equivalent to
ship's company, including master and other officers. When the master
and other officers are excluded, the context always shows it. Story.
Burrill.

3. In an extended sense, any small body of men associated for a
purpose; a gang; as (Naut.), the carpenter's crew; the boatswain's
crew.

Syn.
 -- Company; band; gang; horde; mob; herd; throng; party.

CREW
Crew (kr),

Defn: imp. of Crow.

CREWEL
Crew"el (kr"l), n. Etym: [Perh. for clewel, dim. of clew a ball of
thread; or cf. D. krul curl, E. curl. sq. root26.]

Defn: Worsted yarn,, slackly twisted, used for embroidery.

CREWELWORK
Crew"el*work` (-wrk`), n.

Defn: Embroidery in crewels, commonly done upon some plain material,
such as linen.

CREWET
Crew"et (kr"t), n.

Defn: See Cruet.

CRIB
Crib (krb), n. Etym: [AS. crybb; akin to OS. kribbja, D. krib,
kribbe, Dan. krybbe, G. krippe, and perh. to MHG. krebe basket, G,
korb, and E. rip a sort of wicker basket.]

1. A manger or rack; a feeding place for animals.
The steer lion at one crib shall meet. Pope.

2. A stall for oxen or other cattle.
Where no oxen are, the crib is clean. Prov. xiv. 4.

3. A small inclosed bedstead or cot for a child.

4. A box or bin, or similar wooden structure, for storing grain,
salt, etc.; as, a crib for corn or oats.

5. A hovel; a hut; a cottage.
Why rather, Sleep, liest thou in smoky cribs, . . . Than in the
perfumed chambers of the great Shak.

6. (Mining)

Defn: A structure or frame of timber for a foundation, or for
supporting a roof, or for lining a shaft.

7. A structure of logs to be anchored with stones; -- used for docks,
pier, dams, etc.

8. A small raft of timber. [Canada]

9. A small theft; anything purloined;; a plagiaris [Colloq.]
The Latin version technically called a crib. Ld. Lytton.
Occasional perusal of the Pagan writers, assisted by a crib. Wilkie
Collins.

10. A miner's luncheon. [Cant] Raymond.

11. (Card Playing)

Defn: The discarded cards which the dealer can use in scoring points
in cribbage.

CRIB
Crib, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Cribbed (krbd); p.pr. & vb. n. Cribbing.]

1. To shut up or confine in a narrow habitation; to cage; to cramp.
If only the vital energy be not cribbed or cramped. I. Taylor.
Now I am cabin'd, cribbed, confined. Shak.

2. To pilfer or purloin; hence, to steal from an author; to
appropriate; to plagiarize; as, to crib a line from Milton. [Colloq.]
Child, being fond of toys, cribbed the necklace. Dickens.

CRIB
Crib, v. i.

1. To crowd together, or to be confined, as in a crib or in narrow
accommodations. [R.]
Who sought to make . . . bishops to crib in a Presbyterian trundle
bed. Gauden.

2. To make notes for dishonest use in recitation or examination.
[College Cant]

3. To seize the manger or other solid object with the teeth and draw
in wind; -- said of a horse.

CRIBBAGE
Crib"bage (krb"j), n. Etym: [From Crib, v. t., 2.]

Defn: A game of cards, played by two or four persons, in which there
is a crib. (See Crib, 11.) It is characterized by a great variety of
chances.
A man's fancy would be summed up in cribbage. John Hall.
Cribbage board, a board with holes and pegs, used by cribbage players
to score their game.

CRIBBER; CRIB-BITER
Crib"ber (krb"r), Crib"-bit`er (-bt"r), n.

Defn: A horse that has the habit of cribbing.

CRIBBING
Crib"bing (krb"bng), n.

1. The act of inclosing or confining in a crib or in close quarters.

2. Purloining; stealing; plagiarizing. [Colloq.]

3. (Mining)

Defn: A framework of timbers and plank backing for a shaft lining, to
prevent caving, percolation of water, etc.

4. A vicious habit of a horse; crib-biting. The horse lays hold of
the crib or manger with his teeth and draws air into the stomach with
a grunting sound.

CRIB-BITING
Crib"-bit`ing (krb"bt`ng), n.

Defn: Same as Cribbing, 4.

CRIBBLE
Crib"ble (krb"b'l), n. Etym: [F. crible, LL. criblus sieve, fr. L.
cribrum.]

1. A coarse sieve or screen.

2. Coarse flour or meal. [Obs.] Johnson.

CRIBBLE
Crib"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cribbled (-b'ld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cribbling (-blng).] Etym: [Cf. F. cribler.]

Defn: To cause to pass through a sieve or riddle; to sift.

CRIBBLE
Crib"ble, a.

Defn: Coarse; as, cribble bread. [Obs.] Huloet.

CRIBELLUM
Cri*bel"lum (krbl"lm), n. Etym: [L., a small sieve, dim. of cribrum
sieve.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar perforated organ of certain spiders (Ciniflonidæ),
used for spinning a special kind of silk.

CRIBRATE
Crib"rate (krb"rt), a. Etym: [L. cribratus, p.p. of cribrare to sift,
fr. cribrum a sieve.]

Defn: Cribriform.

CRIBRATION
Cri*bra"tion (kr-br"shn), n. Etym: [Cf. F. cribration, fr. L.
cribrare to sift. See Cribble, n.] (Pharmacy)

Defn: The act or process of separating the finer parts of drugs from
the coarser by sifting.

CRIBRIFORM
Crib"ri*form (krb"rfrm), a. Etym: [L. cribrum sieve + -form: cf. F.
cribriforme.]

Defn: Resembling, or having the form of, a sieve; pierced with hokes;
as, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; a cribriform compress.
Cribriform cells (Bot.), those which have here and there oblique or
transverse sieve plates, or places perforated with many holes.

CRIBROSE
Crib"rose (krb"rs), a. Etym: [L. cribrum sieve.]

Defn: Perforated like a sieve; cribriform.

CRIC
Cric (krk), n. Etym: [prob. fr. F. cric a jackscrew.]

Defn: The ring which turns inward and condenses the flame of a lamp.
Knight.

CRICK
Crick (krk), n. Etym: [See Creak.]

Defn: The creaking of a door, or a noise resembling it. [Obs.]
Johnson.

CRICK
Crick, n. Etym: [The same as creek a bending, twisting. See Creek,
Crook.]

1. A painful, spasmodic affection of the muscles of some part of the
body, as of the neck or back, rendering it difficult to move the
part.
To those also that, with a crick or cramp, have thei necks drawn
backward. Holland.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. cric.]

Defn: A small jackscrew. Knight.

CRICKET
Crick"et (krk"t), n. Etym: [OE. criket, OF. crequet, criquet; prob.
of German origin, and akin to E. creak; cf. D. kriek a cricket. See
Creak.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An orthopterous insect of the genus Gryllus, and allied genera.
The males make chirping, musical notes by rubbing together the basal
parts of the veins of the front wings.

Note: The common European cricket is Gryllus domesticus; the common
large black crickets of America are G. niger, G. neglectus, and
others. Balm cricket. See under Balm.
 -- Cricket bird, a small European bird (Silvia locustella); --
called also grasshopper warbler.
 -- Cricket frog, a small American tree frog (Acris gryllus); -- so
called from its chirping.

CRICKET
Crick"et, n. Etym: [AS. cricc, crycc, crooked staff, crutch. Perh.
first used in sense 1, a stool prob. having been first used as a
wicket. See Crutch.]

1. A low stool.

2. A game much played in England, and sometimes in America, with a
ball, bats, and wickets, the players being arranged in two contesting
parties or sides.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A small false roof, or the raising of a portion of a roof, so
as to throw off water from behind an obstacle, such as a chimney.

CRICKET
Crick"et, v. i.

Defn: To play at cricket. Tennyson.

CRICKETER
Crick"et*er (krk"t-r), n.

Defn: One who plays at cricket.

CRICOID
Cri"coid (kr"koid), a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Resembling a ring; -- said esp. of the cartilage at the larynx,
and the adjoining parts.

CRICOTHYROID
Cri`co*thy"roid (-k-th"roid), a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining both to the cricoid and the thyroid
cartilages.

CRIED
Cried (krd),

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Cry.

CRIER
Cri"er (kr"r), n. Etym: [Cf. F. crieur. See Cry.]

Defn: One who cries; one who makes proclamation. Specifically, an
officer who proclams the orders or directions of a court, or who
gives public notice by loud proclamation; as, a town-crier.
He openeth his mouth like a crier. Ecclus. xx. 15.

CRIME
Crime (krm), n.Etym: [F. crime, fr. L. crimen judicial decision, that
which is subjected to such a decision, charge, fault, crime, fr. the
root of cernere to decide judicially. See Certain.]

1. Any violation of law, either divine or human; an omission of a
duty commanded, or the commission of an act forbidden by law.

2. Gross violation of human law, in distinction from a misdemeanor or
trespass, or other slight offense. Hence, also, any aggravated
offense against morality or the public welfare; any outrage or great
wrong. "To part error from crime." Tennyson.

Note: Crimes, in the English common law, are grave offenses which
were originally capitally punished (murder, rape, robbery, arson,
burglary, and larceny), as distinguished from misdemeanors, which are
offenses of a lighter grade. See Misdemeanors.

3. Any great wickedness or sin; iniguity.
Nocrime was thine, if 'tis no crime to love. Pope.

4. That which occasion crime. [Obs.]
The tree of life, the crime of our first father's fall. Spenser.
Capital crime, a crime punishable with death.

Syn.
 -- Sin; vice; iniquity; wrong.
 -- Crime, Sin,Vice. Sin is the generic term, embracing wickedness of
every kind, but specifically denoting an offense as committed against
God. Crime is strictly a violation of law either human or divine; but
in present usage the term is commonly applied to actions contrary to
the laws of the State. Vice is more distinctively that which springs
from the inordinate indulgence of the natural appetites, which are in
themselves innocent. Thus intemperance, unchastity, duplicity, etc.,
are vices; while murder, forgery, etc., which spring from the
indulgence of selfish passions, are crimes.

CRIMEFUL
Crime"ful (krm"fl), a.

Defn: Criminal; wicked; contrary to law, right, or dury. [Obs.] Shak.

CRIMELESS
Crime"less, a.

Defn: Free from crime; innocent. Shak.

CRIMINAL
Crim"i*nal (krm"-nal), a. Etym: [L. criminalis, fr. crimen: cf. F.
criminel. See Crime.]

1. Guilty of crime or sin.
The neglect of any of the relative duties renders us criminal in the
sight of God. Rogers.

2. Involving a crime; of the nature of a crime; -- said of an act or
of conduct; as, criminal carelessness.
Foppish and fantastic ornaments are only indications of vice, not
criminal in themselves. Addison.

3. Relating to crime; -- opposed to civil; as, the criminal code.
The officers and servants of the crown, violating the personal
liberty, or other right of the subject . . . were in some cases
liable to criminal process. Hallam.
Criminal action (Law), an action or suit instituted to secure
conviction and punishment for a crime.
 -- Criminal conversation (Law), unlawful intercourse with a married
woman; adultery; -- usually abbreviated, crim. con.
 -- Criminal law, the law which relates to crimes.

CRIMINAL
Crim"i*nal, n.

Defn: One who has commited a crime; especially, one who is found
guilty by verdict, confession, or proof; a malefactor; a felon.

CRIMINALIST
Crim"i*nal*ist, n.

Defn: One versed in criminal law. [R.]

CRIMINALITY
Crim`i*nal"i*ty (krm`-nl"-t), n. Etym: [LL. criminalitas, fr. L.
criminalis. See Criminal.]

Defn: The quality or state of being criminal; that which constitutes
a crime; guiltiness; guilt.
This is by no means the only criterion of criminality. Blackstone.

CRIMINALLY
Crim"i*nal*ly (krm"-nal-l), adv.

Defn: In violation of law; wickedly.

CRIMINALNESS
Crim"i*nal*ness, n.

Defn: Criminality. [R.]

CRIMINATE
Crim"i*nate (kr, v. t. [imp & p. p. Criminated (-n; p. pr. & vb. n.
Criminating (-n.] Etym: [L. criminatus, p. p. of criminare,
criminari, to criminate, fr. crimen. See Crime.]

1. To accuse of, or charge with, a crime.
To criminate, with the heavy and ungrounded charge of disloyalty and
disaffection, an uncorrupt, independent, and reforming parliament.
Burke.

2. To involve in a crime or in its consequences; to render liable to
a criminal charge.
Impelled by the strongest pressure of hope and fear to criminate him.
Macaulay.

CRIMINATION
Crim`i*na"tion (krm`-n"shn), n. Etym: [L. criminatio.]

Defn: The act of accusing; accusation; charge; complaint.
The criminations and recriminations of the adverse parties. Macaulay.

CRIMINATIVE
Crim"i*na*tive (krm"-n-tv), a.

Defn: Charging with crime; accusing; criminatory. R. North.

CRIMINATORY
Crim"i*na*to*ry (-t-r), a.

Defn: Relating to, or involving, crimination; accusing; as, a
criminatory conscience.

CRIMINOLOGY
Crim`i*nol"o*gy (-nl"-j), n. Etym: [L. crimen, crimenis, crime + -
logy.]

Defn: A treatise on crime or the criminal population.
 -- Crim`i*nol"o*gist (-j, n.

CRIMINOUS
Crim"i*nous (krm"-ns), a. Etym: [L. criminosus, fr. crimen. See
Crime.]

Defn: Criminal; involving great crime or grave charges; very wicked;
heinous. [Obs.] Holland.
 -- Crim"i*nous*ly, adv..
 -- Crim"i*nous*ness,n. [Obs.]

CRIMOSIN
Crim"o*sin (krm"-zn), n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Crimson.

CRIMP
Crimp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crimped (krmt; 215); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crimping.] Etym: [Akin to D. krimpen to shrink, shrivel, Sw. krympa,
Dan. krympe, and to E. cramp. See Cramp.]

1. To fold or plait in regular undulation in such a way that the
material will retain the shape intended; to give a wavy apperance to;
as, to crimp the border of a cap; to crimp a ruffle. Cf. Crisp.
The comely hostess in a crimped cap. W. Irving.

2. To pinch and hold; to seize.

3. Hence, to entrap into the military or naval service; as, to crimp
seamen.
Coaxing and courting with intent to crimp him. Carlyle.

4. (Cookery)

Defn: To cause to contract, or to render more crisp, as the flesh of
a fish, by gashing it, when living, with a knife; as, to crimp skate,
etc. Crimping house, a low lodging house, into which men are decoyed
and plied with drink, to induce them to ship or enlist as sailors or
soldiers.
 -- Crimping iron. (a) An iron instrument for crimping and curling
the hair. (b) A crimping machine.
 -- Crimping machine, a machine with fluted rollers or with dies, for
crimping ruffles leather, iron, etc.
 -- Crimping pin, an instrument for crimping or puckering the border
of a lady's cap.

CRIMP
Crimp, a.

1. Easily crumbled; friable; brittle. [R.]
Now the fowler . . . treads the crimp earth. J. Philips.

2. Weak; inconsistent; contradictory. [R.]
The evidance is crimp; the witnesses swear backward and forward, and
contradict themselves. Arbuthnot.

CRIMP
Crimp, n.

1. A coal broker. [Prov. Eng.] De Foe.

2. One who decoys or entraps men into the military or naval service.
Marryat.

3. A keeper of a low lodging house where sailors and emigrants are
entrapped and fleeced.

4. Hair which has been crimped; -- usually in pl.

5. A game at cards. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Boot crimp. See under Boot.

CRIMPAGE
Crimp"age (-j), n.

Defn: The act or practice of crimping; money paid to a crimp for
shipping or enlisting men.

CRIMPER
Crimp"er (-r), n.

Defn: One who, or that which, crimps; as: (a) A curved board or frame
over which the upper of a boot or shoe is stretched to the required
shape. (b) A device for giving hair a wavy apperance. (c) A machine
for crimping or ruffling textile fabrics.

CRIMPLE
Crim"ple (krm"p'l), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crimpled (-p'ld); p. pr. &
vb. n. Crimpling (-plng).] Etym: [Dim. of crimp, v. t. ]

Defn: To cause to shrink or draw together; to contract; to curl. [R.]
Wiseman.

CRIMPY
Crimp"y (krmp"), a.

Defn: Having a crimped appearance; frizzly; as, the crimpy wool of
the Saxony sheep.

CRIMSON
Crim"son (krm"z'n), n. Etym: [OE. crimson, OF. crimoisin, F. cramoisi
(cf. Sp. carmesi.) LL. carmesinus, fr. Ar. qermazi, fr. qermez
crimson, kermes, fr. Skr. k produced by a worm; k worm or insect +
jan to generate; akin to E. kin. CF. Carmine, Kermes.]

Defn: A deep red color tinged with blue; also, red color in general.
Theugh jour be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though
they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Is. i. 18.
A maid jet rosed over with the virgin crimson of modesty. Shak.

CRIMSON
Crim"son, a.

Defn: Of a deep red color tinged with blue; deep red. "A crimson
tide." Mrs. Hemans.
The blushing poppy with a crimson hue. Prior.

CRIMSON
Crim"son, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crimsoned (-z'nd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crimsoning.]

Defn: To dye with crimson or deep red; to redden.
Signed in thy spoil and crimsoned in thy lethe. Shak.

CRIMSON
Crim"son, b. t.

Defn: To become crimson; to blush.
Ancient towers . . . beginning to crimson with the radiant luster of
a cloudless July morning. De Quincey.

CRINAL
Cri"nal (kr"nal), a. Etym: [L. crinalis, fr. crinis the hair.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the hair. [R.] Blount.

CRINATED
Cri"na*ted (kr"n-td), a.

Defn: Having hair; hairy.

CRINATORY
Cri"na*to*ry (kr"n-t-r), a.

Defn: Crinitory. Craig.

CRINCUM
Crin"cum (krn"km), n. Etym: [Cf. Crinkle.]

Defn: A twist or bend; a turn; a whimsey. [Colloq.] Hudibras.

CRINCUM-CRANCUM
Crin"cum-cran"cum (krn"km-krn"km), n.

Defn: A twist; a whimsey or whim. [Colloq.]

CRINED
Crined (krnd), a. Etym: [L. crinis hair.] (Her.)

Defn: Having the hair of a different tincture from the rest of the
body; as, a charge crined of a red tincture.

CRINEL; CRINET
Cri"nel (kr"nEl), Cri"net (kr"nt), n. Etym: [L. crinis hair.]

Defn: A very fine, hairlike feather. Booth.

CRINGE
Cringe (krnj), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crnged (krnjd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cringing.] Etym: [As. crincgang, cringan, crincan, to jield, fall;
akin to E. crank.]

Defn: To draw one's self together as in fear or servility; to bend or
crouch with base humility; to wince; hence; to make court in a
degrading manner; to fawn.
When they were come up to the place where the lions were, the boys
that went before were glad to cringe behind, for they were afraid of
the lions. Bunyan.
Sly hypocrite, . . . who more than thou Once fawned and cringed, and
servilely adored Heaven's awful monarch Milton.
Flatterers . . . are always bowing and cringing. Arbuthnot.

CRINGE
Cringe, v. t.

Defn: To contract; to draw together; to cause to shrink or wrinkle;
to distort. [Obs.]
Till like a boy you see him cringe his face, And whine aloud for
mercy. Shak.

CRINGE
Cringe, n.

Defn: Servile civility; fawning; a shrinking or bowing, as in fear or
servility. "With cringe and shrug, and bow obsequious." Cowper.

CRINGELING
Cringe"ling, n.

Defn: One who cringes meanly; a fawner.

CRINGER
Crin"ger (krn"jr), n.

Defn: One who cringes.

CRINGINGLY
Crin"ging*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cringing manner.

CRINGLE
Crin"gle (krn"g'l), n. Etym: [Icel. kringla orb; akin to kring
around, and to D. kring circle, and to E. cringe, crank.]

1. A withe for fastening a gate.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: An iron or pope thimble or grommet worked into or attached to
the edges and corners of a sail; -- usually in the plural. The
cringles are used for making fast the bowline bridles, earings, etc.

CRINICULTURAL
Crin`i*cul"tur*al (krn`-kl"tr-al; 135), a. Etym: [L. crinis hair +
cultura.]

Defn: Relating to the growth of hair. [R.]

CRINIGEROUS
Cri*nig"er*ous (kr-nj"r-s), a. Etym: [L. criniger; crinis hair +
gerere to bear.]

Defn: Bearing hair; hairy. [R.]

CRINITAL
Cri"ni*tal (kr"n-tal), a.

Defn: Same as Crinite,

1.
He the star crinital adoreth. Stanyhurst.

CRINITE
Cri"nite (kr"nt), a. Etym: [L. crinitus, p. p. of crinire to provide
or cover with hair, fr. crinis hair.]

1. Having the appearance of a tuft of hair; having a hairlike tail or
train. "Comate, crinite, caudate stars."

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Bearded or tufted with hairs. Gray.

CRINITORY
Cri"ni*to*ry (kr"n-t-r), a.

Defn: Of or relating to hair; as, a crinitory covering. T. Hook.

CRINKLE
Crin"kle (krn"k'l), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crinkled (-k'ld); p. pr. &
vb. n. Crinkling (-klng).] Etym: [A dim., fr. the root of cringe;
akin to D. krinkelen to wind or twist. Cf. Cringle, Cringe.]

Defn: To form with short turns, bends, or wrinkles; to mold into
inequalites or sinuosities; to cause to wrinkle or curl.
The houscrinkled to and fro. Chaucer.
Her face all bowsy, Comely crinkled, Wondrously wrinkled. Skelton.
The flames through all the casements pushing forth, Like red-not
devils crinkled into snakes. Mrs. Browning.

CRINKLE
Crin"kle, v. i.

Defn: To turn or wind; ti run in and out in many short bends or
turns; to curl; to run in wavws; to wrinkle; also, to rustle, as
stiff cloth when moved.
The green wheat crinkles like a lake. L. T. Trowbridge.
And all the rooms Were full of crinkling silks. Mrs. Browning.

CRINKLE
Crin"kle, n.

Defn: A winding or turn; wrinkle; sinuosity.
The crinkles in this glass, making objects appear double. A. Tucker.

CRINKLED
Crin"kled (krn"k'ld), a.

Defn: Having short bends, turns, or wrinkles; wrinkled; wavy; zigzag.
"The crinkled lightning." Lowell.

CRINKLY
Crin"kly (-kl), a.

Defn: Having crinkles; wavy; wrinkly.

CRINOID
Cri"noid (kr"noid), a. [See Crinoidea.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Crinoidal.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Crinoidea.

CRINOIDAL
Cri*noid"al (kr-noidal), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of pertaining to crinoids; consisting of, or containing,
crinoids.

CRINOIDEA
Cri*noid"e*a (kr-noid"-), n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -oid: cf. F.
crino.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large class of Echinodermata, including numerous extinct
families and genera, but comparatively few living ones. Most of the
fossil species, like some that are recent, were attached by a jointed
stem. See Blastoidea, Cystoidea, Comatula.

CRINOIDEAN
Cri*noid"e*an (-an), n. (Zoöl)

Defn: One of the Crinoidea.

CRINOLINE
Crin"o*line (krn"-ln), n. Etym: [F., fr. crin hair,L. crinis.]

1. A kind of stiff cloth, used chiefly by women, for underskirts, to
expand the gown worn over it; -- so called because originally made of
hair.

2. A lady's skirt made of any stiff material; latterly, a hoop skirt.

CRINOSE
Cri*nose" (kr-ns"), a. Etym: [L. crinis hair.]

Defn: Hairy. [R.]

CRINOSITY
Cri*nos"i*ty (kr-ns"-t), n.

Defn: Hairiness. [R.]

CRINUM
Cri"num (kr"nm), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of bulbous plants, of the order Amaryllidace,
cultivated as greenhouse plants on account of their beauty.

CRIOSPHINX
Cri"o*sphinx` (kr"-sfnks`), n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A sphinx with the head of a ram.

CRIPPLE
Crip"ple (krp"p'l), n. Etym: [OE. cripel, crepel, crupel, AS. crypel
(akin to D. kreuple, G. kr, Dan. kr, Icel. kryppill), prop., one that
can not walk, but must creep, fr. AS. cre to creep. See Creep.]

Defn: One who creeps, halts, or limps; one who has lost, or never
had, the use of a limb or limbs; a lame person; hence, one who is
partially disabled.
I am a cripple in my limbs; but what decays are in my mind, the
reader must determine. Dryden.

CRIPPLE
Crip"ple (krp"p'l), a.

Defn: Lame; halting. [R.] "The cripple, tardy-gaited night." Shak.

CRIPPLE
Crip"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crippled (-p'ld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crippling (-plng).]

1. To deprive of the use of a limb, particularly of a leg or foot; to
lame.
He had crippled the joints of the noble child. Sir W. Scott.

2. To deprive of strength, activity, or capability for service or
use; to disable; to deprive of resources; as, to be financially
crippled.
More serious embarrassments . . . were crippling the energy of the
settlement in the Bay. Palfrey.
An incumbrance which would permanently cripple the body politic.
Macaulay.

CRIPPLED
Crip"pled (krp"p'ld), a.

Defn: Lamed; lame; disabled; impeded. "The crippled crone."
Longfellow.

CRIPPLENESS
Crip"ple*ness, n.

Defn: Lameness. [R.] Johnson.

CRIPPLER
Crip"pler (-plr), n.

Defn: A wooden tool used in graining leather. Knight.

CRIPPLING
Crip"pling (-plng), n.

Defn: Spars or timbers set up as a support against the side of a
building.

CRIPPLY
Crip"ply (-pl), a.

Defn: Lame; disabled; in a crippled condition. [R.] Mrs. Trollope.

CRISIS
Cri"sis (kr"ss), n.; pl. Crises (-s. Etym: [L. crisis, Gr. Certain.]

1. The point of time when it is to be decided whether any affair or
course of action must go on, or be modified or terminate; the
decisive moment; the turning point.
This hour's the very crisis of your fate. Dryden.
The very times of crisis for the fate of the country. Brougham.

2. (Med.)

Defn: That change in a disease which indicates whether the result is
to be recovery or death; sometimes, also, a striking change of
symptoms attended by an outward manifestation, as by an eruption or
sweat.
Till some safe crisis authorize their skill. Dryden.

CRISP
Crisp (krsp), a. Etym: [AS. crisp, fr. L. crispus; cf. carpere to
pluck, card (wool), and E. harvest. Cf. Crape.]

1. Curling in stiff curls or ringlets; as, crisp hair.

2. Curled with the ripple of the water. [Poetic]
You numphs called Naiads, of the winding brooks . . . Leave jour
crisp channels. Shak.

3. Brittle; friable; in a condition to break with a short, sharp
fracture; as, crisp snow.
The cakes at tea ate short and crisp. Goldsmith.

4. Possessing a certain degree of firmness and freshness; in a fresh,
unwilted condition.
It [laurel] has been plucked nine months, and yet looks as hale and
crisp as if it would last ninety years. Leigh Hunt.

5. Lively; sparking; effervescing.
Your neat crisp claret. Beau & Fl.

6. Brisk; crackling; cheerful; lively.
The snug, small room, and the crisp fire. Dickens.

CRISP
Crisp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crisped (krspt); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crisping.] Etym: [L. crispare, fr. crispus. See Crisp. a. ]

1. To curl; to form into ringlets, as hair, or the nap of cloth; to
interweave, as the branches of trees.

2. To cause to undulate irregularly, as crape or water; to wrinkle;
to cause to ripple. Cf. Crimp.
The lover with the myrtle sprays Adorns his crisped tresses. Drayton.
Along the crisped shades and bowers. Milton.
The crisped brooks, Rolling on orient pearl and sands of gold.
Milton.

3. To make crisp or brittle, as in cooking. Crisping iron, an
instrument by which hair or any textile fabric is crisped.
 -- Crisping pin, the simplest form of crisping iron. Is. iii. 22.

CRISP
Crisp, v. i.

Defn: To undulate or ripple. Cf. Crisp, v. t.
To watch the crisping ripples on the beach. Tennuson.

CRISP
Crisp, n.

Defn: That which is crisp or brittle; the state of being crisp or
brittle; as, burned to a crisp; specifically, the rind of roasted
pork; crackling.

CRISPATE; CRISPATED
Cris"pate (krs"pt), Cris"pa*ted (-p-td), a. Etym: [L. crispatus, p.
p. of crispare.]

Defn: Having a crisped appearance; irregularly curled or twisted.

CRISPATION
Cris*pa"tion (krs-p"shn), n. Etym: [CF. F. crispation.]

1. The act or process of curling, or the state of being curled.
Bacon.

2. A very slight convulsive or spasmodic contraction of certain
muscles, external or internal.
Few men can look down from a great height without creepings and
crispations. O. W. Holmes.

CRISPATURE
Cris"pa*ture (krs"p-tr; 135), n.

Defn: The state of being crispate.

CRISPER
Crisp"er (krs"pr), n.

Defn: One who, or that which, crisps or curls; an instrument for
making little curls in the nap of cloth, as in chinchilla.

CRISPIN
Cris"pin (krs"pn), n.

1. A shoemaker; -- jocularly so called from the patron sant of the
craft.

2. A member of a union or association of shoemakers.

CRISPLY
Crisp"ly (krsp"l), adv.

Defn: In a crisp manner.

CRISPNESS
Crisp"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being crisp.

CRISPY
Crisp"y (-), a.

1. Formed into short, close ringlets; frizzed; crisp; as, crispy
locks.

2. Crisp; brittle; as. a crispy pie crust.

CRISSAL
Cris"sal (krs"sal), a. (Zoöl.)

1. Pertaining to the crissum; as, crissal feathers.

2. Having highly colored under tail coverts; as, the crissal
thrasher.

CRISSCROSS
Criss"cross` (krs"krs`; 115), n. Etym: [A corruption of Christcross.]

1. A mark or cross, as the signature of a person who is unable to
write.

2. A child's game played on paper or on a slate, consisting of lines
arranged in the form of a cross.

CRISSCROSS
Criss"cross`, v. t.

Defn: To mark or cover with cross lines; as, a paper was crisscrossed
with red marks.

CRISSCROSS
Criss"cross` (krs"krs`;115), adv.

1. In opposite directions; in a way to cross something else; crossing
one another at various angles and in various ways.
Logs and tree luing crisscross in utter confusion. W. E. Boardman.

2. With opposition or hindrance; at cross purposes; contrarily; as,
things go crisscross.

CRISSCROSS-ROW
Criss"cross-row` (-r`), n.

Defn: See Christcross-row.

CRISSUM
Cris"sum (krs"sm),, n.; pl. Crissa (-s. Etym: [NL.; cf. L. crisso to
move the haunches.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: That part of a bird, or the feathers, surrounding the cloacal
opening; the under tail coverts.

CRISTATE
Cris"tate (krs"tt), a. Etym: [L. ctistatus, fr. crista crest.] (Bot.
& Zoöl.)

Defn: Crested.

CRITERION
Cri*te"ri*on (kr-t"r-n), n.; pl. Criteria (-Criterions (-. Etym: [Gr.
Certain.]

Defn: A standard of judging; any approved or established rule or
test, by which facts, principles opinions, and conduct are tried in
forming a correct judgment respecting them.
Of the diseases of the mind there is no criterion. Donne.
Inferences founded on such enduring criteria. Sir G. C. Lewis.

Syn.
 -- Standard; measure; rule.

CRITH
Crith (krth), n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: The unit for estimating the weight of a

CRITHOMANCY
Crith"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy: cf. F. crithomancie.]

Defn: A kind of divination by means of the dough of the cakes offered
in the ancient sacrifices, and the meal strewed over the victims.

CRITIC
Crit"ic (krt"k), n. Etym: [L. criticus, Gr. able to discuss, from
Certain, and cf. Critique.]

1. One skilled in judging of the merits of literary or artistic
works; a connoisseur; an adept; hence, one who examines literary or
artistic works, etc., and passes judgment upon them; a reviewer.
The opininon of the most skillful critics was, that nothing finer
[than Goldsmith's "Traveler"] had appeared in verse since the fourth
book of the "Dunciad." Macaulay.

2. One who passes a rigorous or captious judgment; one who censures
or finds fault; a harsh examiner or judge; a caviler; a carper.
When an author has many beauties consistent with virtue, piety, and
truth, let not little critics exalt themselves, and shower down their
ill nature. I. Watts.
You know who the critics are the men who have failed in literature
and art. Beaconsfield.

3. The art of criticism. [Obs.] Locke.

4. An act of criticism; a critique. [Obs.]
And make each day a critic on the last. Pope.

CRITIC
Crit"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to critics or criticism; critical. [Obs.]
"Critic learning." Pope.

CRITIC
Crit"ic, v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. critiquer.]

Defn: To criticise; to play the critic. [Obs.]
Nay, if you begin to critic once, we shall never have done. A.
Brewer.

CRITICAL
Crit"ic*al (krt"-kal), a. Etym: [See Critic, n., Crisis.]

1. Qualified to criticise, or pass judgment upon, literary or
artistic productions.
It is submitted to the judgment of more critical ears to direct and
determine what is graceful and what is not. Holder.

2. Pertaining to criticism or the critic's art; of the nature of a
criticism; accurate; as, critical knowledge; a critical dissertation.

3. Inclined to make nice distinctions, or to exercise careful
judgment and selection; exact; nicely judicious.
Virgil was so critical in the rites of religion. that he would never
have brought in such prayers as these, if they had not been agreeable
to the Roman customs. Bp. Stillingfleet.

4. Inclined to criticise or find fault; fastidious; captious;
censorious; exacting.
O gentle lady, do not put me to 't, For I am nothing, if not
critical. Shak.

5. Characterized by thoroughness and a reference to principles, as
becomes a critic; as, a critical analysis of a subject.

6. Etym: [See Crisis.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or indicating, a crisis, turning point, or
specially important juncture; important as regards consequences;
hence, of doubtful issue; attended with risk; dangerous; as, the
critical stage of a fever; a critical situation.
Our circumstances are indeed critical. Burke.
The small moment, the exact point, the critical minute, on which
every good work so much depends. South.
Critical angle (Optics), that angle of incidence of a luminous ray at
which it is wholly reflected, and no portion of it transmitted. The
sine of this angle is the reciprocal of the refractive index of the
medium.
 -- Critical philosophy, the metaphysical system of Kant; -- so
called from his most important work, the "Critique of Pure Reason." -
- Critical point (Physics), a certain temperature, different for
different gases, but always the same for each gas, regarded as the
limit above which no amount of pressure can produce condensation to a
liquid.

CRITICALLY
Crit"ic*al*ly, adv.

1. In a critical manner; with nice discernment; accurately; exactly.
Critically to discern good writers from bad. Dryden.

2. At a crisis; at a critical time; in a situation. place, or
condition of decisive consequence; as, a fortification critically
situated.
Coming critically the night before the session. Bp. Burnet.

CRITICALNESS
Crit"ic*al*ness, n.

1. The state or quality of being critical, or of occurring at a
critical time.

2. Accuracy in examination or decision; exactness.

CRITICASTER
Crit"ic*as`ter (krt"k-s`tr), n.

Defn: A contemptible or vicious critic.
The rancorous and reptile crew of poeticules, who decompose into
criticasters. Swinburne.

CRITICISABLE
Crit"i*cis`a*ble (krt"-sz`-b'l), a.

Defn: Capable of being criticised.

CRITICISE
Crit"i*cise (krt"-sz), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Criticised (-szd); p. pr.
& vb. n. Criticising.] Etym: [Written also, more analogically, but
less commonly, criticize.] Etym: [Cf. G. kritisiren. See Critic.]

1. To examine and judge as a critic; to pass literary or artistic
judgment upon; as, to criticise an author; to criticise a picture.

2. To express one's views as to the merit or demerit of; esp., to
animadvert upon; to find fault with; as, to criticise conduct.
Blackwood's Mag.

CRITICISE
Crit"i*cise, v. i.

1. To act as a critic; to pass literary or artistic judgment; to play
the critic; -- formerly used with on or upon.
Several of these ladies, indeed, criticised upon the form of the
association. Addison.

2. To discuss the merits or demerits of a thing or person; esp., to
find fault.
Cavil you may, but never criticise. Pope.

CRITICISER
Crit"i*ci`ser (-s`zr), n.

Defn: One who criticises; a critic.

CRITICISM
Crit"i*cism (krt"-sz'm), n.

1. The rules and principles which regulate the practice of the
critic; the art of judging with knowledge and propriety of the
beauties and faults of a literary performance, or of a production in
the fine arts; as, dramatic criticism.
The elements ofcriticism depend on the two principles of Beauty and
Truth, one of which is the final end or object of study in every one
of its pursuits: Beauty, in letters and the arts; Truth, in history
and sciences. Brande & C.
By criticism, as it was first instituted by Aristotle, was meant a
standard of judging well. Dryden.

2. The act of criticising; a critical judgment passed or expressed; a
critical observation or detailed examination and review; a critique;
animadversion; censure.
About the plan of "Rasselas" little was said by the critics; and yet
the faults of the plan might seem to invite severe criticism.
Macaulay.

CRITIQUE
Cri*tique" (kr-tk"), n. Etym: [F. critique, f., fr. Gr. Critic.]

1. The art of criticism. [Written also critic.] [R.]

2. A critical examination or estimate of a work of literature or art;
a critical dissertation or essay; a careful and through analysis of
any subject; a criticism; as, Kant's "Critique of Pure Reason."
I should as soon expect to see a critique on the poesy of a ring as
on the inscription of a medal. Addison.

3. A critic; one who criticises. [Obs.]
A question among critiques in the ages to come. Bp. Lincoln.

CRITIQUE
Cri*tique", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Critic, v.]

Defn: To criticise or pass judgment upon. [Obs.] Pope.

CRIZZEL
Criz"zel (krz"z'l), n. Etym: [Cf. grizzle darkish gray, or G.
griselig gravelly, granular, speckled.]

Defn: A kind of roughness on the surface of glass, which clouds its
transparency. [Written also crizzeling and crizzle.]

CROAK
Croak (krk), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Croaked. (krp. pr. & vb. n.
Croaking.] Etym: [From the primitive of AS. cracettan to croak as a
raven; akin to G. kr to croak, and to E. creak, crake.]

1. To make a low, hoarse noise in the throat, as a frog, a raven, or
a crow; hence, to make any hoarse, dismal sound.
Loud thunder to its bottom shook the bog, And the hoarse nation
croaked. Pope.

2. To complain; especially, to grumble; to forebode evil; to utter
complaints or forebodings habitually.
Marat . . . croaks with reasonableness. Carlyle.

CROAK
Croak, v. t.

Defn: To utter in a low, hoarse voice; to announce by croaking; to
forebode; as, to croak disaster.
The raven himself is hoarse, That croaks the fatal entrance of
Duncan. Shak.
Two ravens now began to croak Their nuptial song. Wordsworth.

CROAK
Croak, n.

Defn: The coarse, harsh sound uttered by a frog or a raven, or a like
sound.

CROAKER
Croak"er (-r), n.

1. One who croaks, murmurs, grumbles, or complains unreasonably; one
who habitually forebodes evil.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small American fish (Micropogon undulatus), of the Atlantic
coast.
(a) An American fresh-water fish (Aplodinotus grunniens); -- called
also drum.
(c) The surf fish of California.

Note: When caught these fishes make a croaking sound; whence the
name, which is often corrupted into crocus.

CROAT
Cro"at (kr"t), n. Etym: [Cf. Cravat.]

1. A native of Croatia, in Austria; esp., one of the native Slavic
race.

2. An irregular soldier, generally from Croatia.

CROATIAN
Cro*a"tian (kr-"shan), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Croatia.
 -- n.

Defn: A Croat.

CROCEIN
Cro"ce*in (kr"s-n), n. Etym: [See Croceous.] (Chem.)

Defn: A name given to any one of several yellow or scarlet dyestuffs
of artificial production and complex structure. In general they are
diazo and sulphonic acid derivatives of benzene and naphthol.

CROCEOUS
Cro"ceous (kr"shs), a. Etym: [L. croceus, fr. crocus saffron. See
Crocus.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, saffron; deep reddish yellow. [R.]

CROCETIN
Cro"ce*tin (kr"s-tn), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A dyestuff, obtained from the Chinese croicin, which produces a
brilliant yellow.

CROCHE
Croche (krch), n. Etym: [OF. croche, equiv. to F. crochet, croc,
hook. See Crotchet, Crook.]

Defn: A little bud or knob at the top of a deer's antler.

CROCHET
Cro*chet" (kr-sh"), n. Etym: [F. crochet small hook. See Croche.]

Defn: A kind of knitting done by means of a hooked needle, with
worsted, silk, or cotton; crochet work. Commonly used adjectively.
Crochet hook, Crochet needle, a small hook, or a hooked needle (often
of bone), used in crochet work.

CROCHET
Cro*chet", v. t. & i. [imp. & p.p. Crocheted (shd"); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crocheting (-sh"ng).]

Defn: To knit with a crochet needle or hook; as, to rochett a shawl.

CROCIARY
Cro"ci*a*ry (kr"sh--r), n. Etym: [See Crosier.] (Eccl.)

Defn: One who carries the cross before an archbishop. [Obs.]

CROCIDOLITE
Cro*cid"o*lite (kr-sd"-lt), n. Etym: [Gr. kroky`s nap on cloth + -
lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occuring in silky fibers of a lavender blue color. It
is related to hornblende and is essentially a silicate of iron and
soda; -- called also blue asbestus. A silicified form, in which the
fibers penetrating quartz are changed to oxide of iron, is the yellow
brown tiger-eye of the jewelers.

CROCIN
Cro"cin (kr"sn), n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)
(a) The coloring matter of Chinese yellow pods, the fruit of Gardenia
grandiflora. Watts.
(b) A red powder (called also polychroite), which is made from the
saffron (Crocus sativus). See Polychroite.

CROCK
Crock (krk), n. Etym: [Cf. W. croeg cover, Scot. crochit covered.]

Defn: The loose black particles collected from combustion, as on pots
and kettles, or in a chimney; soot; smut; also, coloring matter which
rubs off from cloth.

CROCK
Crock, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Crocked (krkt); p. pr. & vb. n. Crocking.]

Defn: To soil by contact, as with soot, or with the coloring matter
of badly dyed cloth.

CROCK
Crock, v. i.

Defn: To give off crock or smut.

CROCK
Crock, n.

Defn: A low stool. "I . . . seated her upon a little crock." Tatler.

CROCK
Crock (krk), n. Etym: [AS. croc, croca, crog, croh; akin to D. kruik,
G. krug, Icel. krukka, Dan. krukke, Sw. kruka; but cf. W. crwc
bucket, pail, crochan pot, cregen earthen vessel, jar. Cf. Cruet.]

Defn: Any piece of crockery, especially of coarse earthenware; an
earthen pot or pitcher.
Like foolish flies about an honey crock. Spenser.

CROCK
Crock, v. t.

Defn: To lay up in a crock; as, to crock butter. Halliwell.

CROCKER
Crock"er (-r), n.

Defn: A potter. [Obs.] Wyclif.

CROCKERY
Crock"er*y ( krk"r-), n. Etym: [From Crock an earthen vessel.]

Defn: Earthenware; vessels formed of baked clay, especially the
coarser kinds.

CROCKET
Crock"et (krk"t), n. Etym: [OF. croquet, F. crochet, dim. of croc
hook. See Crook, and cf. Crotchet.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament often resembling curved and bent foliage,
projecting from the sloping edge of a gable, spire, etc.

2. A croche, or knob, on the top of a stag's antler.
The antlers and the crockets. W. Black.

CROCKETED
Crock"et*ed, a. (Arch.)

Defn: Ornamented with crockets.

CROCKETING
Crock"et*ing, n. (Arch.)

Defn: Ornamentation with crockets. Ruskin.

CROCKY
Crock"y (-), a. Etym: [From Crock soot.]

Defn: Smutty.

CROCODILE
Croc"o*dile (krk"-dl; 277), n. Etym: [L. crocodilus, Gr. crocodile.
Cf. Cookatrice.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large reptile of the genus Crocodilus, of several species.
They grow to the length of sixteen or eighteen feet, and inhabit the
large rivers of Africa, Asia, and America. The eggs, laid in the
sand, are hatched by the sun's heat. The best known species is that
of the Nile (C. vulgaris, or C. Niloticus). The Florida crocodile (C.
Americanus) is much less common than the alligator and has longer
jaws. The name is also sometimes applied to the species of other
related genera, as the gavial and the alligator.

2. (Logic)

Defn: A fallacious dilemma, mythically supposed to have been first
used by a crocodile. Crocodile bird (Zoöl.), an African plover
(Pluvianus ægypticus) which alights upon the crocodile and devours
its insect parasites, even entering its open mouth (according to
reliable writers) in pursuit of files, etc.; -- called also Nile
bird. It is the trochilos of ancient writers.
 -- Crocodile tears, false or affected tears; hypocritical sorrow; --
derived from the fiction of old travelers, that crocodiles shed tears
over their prey.

CROCODILIA
Croc`o*dil"i*a (-dl"-), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. crocodilus
crocodile.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of reptiles including the crocodiles, gavials,
alligators, and many extinct kinds.

CROCODILIAN
Croc`o*dil"i*an (krk`-dl"-an), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, the crocodile; characteristic of the
crocodile.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Crocodilia.

CROCODILITY
Croc`o*dil"i*ty (--t), n. (Logic)

Defn: A caption or sophistical mode of arguing. [R.]

CROCOISITE
Cro"cois*ite (kr"kois-t), n. Etym: [Cf. F. croco.] (Min.)

Defn: Same as Crocoite.

CROCOITE
Cro"co*ite (kr"k-t), n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Lead chromate occuring in crystals of a bright hyacinth red
color; -- called also red lead ore.

CROCONATE
Cro"con*ate (kr"kn-t), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt formed by the union of croconic acid with a base.

CROCONIC
Cro*con"ic (kr-kn"k), a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Of, pertaining to, or resembling saffron; having the color of
saffron; as, croconic acid.

2. Pertaining to, or derived from, croconic acid.

Croconic acid (Chem.), a yellow crystalline substance, C5O3(OH)2,
obtained from potassium carboxide, rhodizonic acid, and various
phenol and quinone derivatives of benzene, and forming yellow or
orange colored salts.

CROCOSE
Cro"cose (kr"ks), n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline sugar, metameric with glucose, obtained
from the coloring matter of saffron. [Written also crokose.]

CROCUS
Cro"cus (kr"ks), n. Etym: [L., saffron, fr. Gr. kark, Ar. kurkum,
Skr. ku.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of iridaceous plants, with pretty blossoms rising
separately from the bulb or corm. C. vernus is one of the earliest of
spring-blooming flowers; C. sativus produces the saffron, and
blossoms in the autumn.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A deep yellow powder; the oxide of some metal calcined to a red
or deep yellow color; esp., the oxide of iron (Crocus of Mars or
colcothar) thus produced from salts of irron, and used as a polishing
powder. Crocus of Venus (Old Chem.), oxide of copper.

CROESUS
Croe"sus (kr"ss), n. Etym: [L., fr. G.

Defn: A king of Lydia who flourished in the 6th century b. c., and
was renowned for his vast wealth; hence, a common appellation for a
very rich man; as, he is veritable Croesus.

CROFT
Croft (krft; 115), n. Etym: [AS. croft; akin to D. kroft hillock; cf.
Gael. croit hump, croft.]

Defn: A small, inclosed field, adjoining a house; a small farm.
A few small crofts of stone-encumbered ground. Wordsworth.

CROFTER
Croft"er (-r), n.

Defn: One who rents and tills a small farm or helding; as, the
crofters of Scotland.

CROFTING
Croft"ing, n.

1. Croftland. [Scot.] Jamieson.

2. (Textile Manuf.)

Defn: Exposing linen to the sun, on the grass, in the process of
bleaching.

CROFTLAND
Croft"land (-lnd), n.

Defn: Land of superior quality, on which successive crops are raised.
[Scot.] Jamieson.

CROFTON SYSTEM
Crof"ton sys"tem. [After Sir Walter Crofton, Irish penologist.]
(Penology)

Defn: A system of prison discipline employing for consecutive periods
cellular confinement, associated imprisonment under the mark system,
restraint intermediate between imprisonment and freedom, and
liberation on ticket of leave.

CROIS
Crois (krois). n. Etym: [OF.]

Defn: See Cross, n. [Obs.]

CROISADE; CROISADO
Croi*sade" (kroi-sd"), Croi*sa"do (-s"d), n. Etym: [F. criosade. See
Crusade.]

Defn: A holy war; a crusade. [Obs.] Bacon.

CROISE
Croise (krois), n. Etym: [F. crois crusader, fr. OF. crois, F. croix,
cross. See Cross.]

1. A pilgrim bearing or wearing a cross. [Obs.]

2. A crusader. [Obs.]
The conquesta of the croises extending over Palestine. Burke.

CROISSANTE
Crois`san`te" (krw`sn`t"), a. Etym: [F. croissant, adj. & n.,
crescent.] (Her.)

Defn: Terminated with crescent; -- said of a cross the ends of which
are so terminated.

CROKER
Cro"ker (kr"kr), n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A cultivator of saffron; a dealer in saffron. [Obs.] Holinshed.

CROMA
Cro"ma (kr"m), n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A quaver. [Obs.]

CROMLECH
Crom"lech (krm"l*k), n. Etym: [W. cromlech; crom bending or bent,
concave + llech a flat stone; akin to Ir. cromleac.] (Arch

Defn: A monument of rough stones composed of one or more large ones
supported in a horizontal position upon others. They are found
chiefly in countris inhabited by the ancient Celts, and are of a
period anterior to the introduction of Christianity into these
countries.

CROMORNA
Cro*mor"na (kr-mr"n), n. Etym: [F. cromorne (cf. It. cromorno0, fr.
G. krummhorn crooked horn, cornet, an organ pipe turned like a
trumpet; krumm crooked + horn horn.] (Mus.)

Defn: A certain reed stop in the organ, of a quality of tone
resembling that of the oboe. [Corruptly written cromona.]

CRONE
Crone (krn), n. Etym: [OD. kronie, karonie, an old sheep, OF.
carogne, F. charogne, carrion (also F. carogne illnatured woman.).
See Carrion, and Crony.]

1. An old ewe. [Obs.] Tusser.

2. An old woman; -- usually in contempt.
But still the crone was constant to her note. Dryden.

3. An old man; especially, a man who talks and acts like an old
woman. [R.]
The old crone [a negro man] lived in a hovel, . . . which his master
had given him. W. Irving.
A few old battered crones of office. Beaconsfield.

CRONEL
Cro"nel (kr"nl), n. Etym: [Cf. Coronel spearhead, Crown.]

Defn: The iron head of a tilting spear.

CRONET
Cro"net (kr"nt), n. Etym: [Cf. Coronet, Crownet.]

Defn: The coronet of a horse.

CRONIAN
Cro"ni*an (kr"n-an), a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Saturnian; -- applied to the North Polar Sea. [R.] Milton.

CRONSTEDTITE
Cron"stedt*ite (krn"stt-t), n. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral consisting principally of silicate of iron, and
crystallizing in hexagonal prisms with perfect basal cleavage; -- so
named from the Swedish mineralogist Cronstedt.

CRONY
Cro"ny (kr"n), n.; pl. Cronies (-n. Etym: [Orig., an old woman. See
Crone.]

1. A crone. [Obs.] "Marry not an old crony." Burton.

2. An intimate companion; a familiar frend. [Colloq.]
He soon found his former cronies, though all rather the worse for the
wear and tear of time. W. Irving.

CROODLE
Croo"dle (kr"d'l), v. i. Etym: [Cf. Cruddle, Crudle.]

1. To cower or cuddle together, as from fear or cold; to lie close
and snug together, as pigs in straw. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. Forby.
A dove to fly home her nest and croodle there. C. Kingsley.

2. To fawn or coax. [Obs.]

3. To coo. [Scot.]

CROOK
Crook (krk), n. Etym: [OE. crok; akin to Icel. kr hook,bend, SW.
krok, Dan. krog, OD. krooke; or cf. Gael. crecan crook, hook, W.
crwca crooked. Cf. Crosier, Crotchet, Crutch, Encroach.]

1. A bend, turn, or curve; curvature; flexure.
Through lanes, and crooks, and darkness. Phaer.

2. Any implement having a bent or crooked end. Especially: (a) The
staff used by a shepherd, the hook of which serves to hold a runaway
sheep. (b) A bishop's staff of office. Cf. Pastoral stafu.
He left his crook, he left his flocks. Prior.

3. A pothook. "As black as the crook." Sir W. Scott.

4. An artifice; trick; tricky device; subterfuge.
For all yuor brags, hooks, and crooks. Cranmer.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: A small tube, usually curved, applied to a trumpet, horn, etc.,
to change its pitch or key.

6. A person given to fraudulent practices; an accomplice of thieves,
forgers, etc. [Cant, U.S.] By hook or by crook, in some way or other;
by fair means or foul.

CROOK
Crook (krk), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crooked (krkt); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crooking.] Etym: [OE. croken; cf. Sw. kr, Dan. kr. See Crook, n.]

1. To turn from a straight line; to bend; to curve.
Crook the pregnant hinges of the knee. Shak.

2. To turn from the path of rectitude; to pervert; to misapply; to
twist. [Archaic]
There is no one thing that crooks youth more than such unlawfull
games. Ascham.
What soever affairs pass such a man's hands, he crooketh them to his
own ends. Bacon.

CROOK
Crook, v. i.

Defn: To bend; to curve; to wind; to have a curvature. " The port . .
. crooketh like a bow." Phaer.
Their shoes and pattens are snouted, and piked more than a finger
long, crooking upwards. Camden.

CROOKBACK
Crook"back` (krk"bk), n.

Defn: A crooked back; one who has a crooked or deformed back; a
hunchback.

CROOKBACK
Crook"back`, a.

Defn: Hunched. Shak. `

CROOKBILL
Crook"bill` ( -bl`), n. (Zoöl)

Defn: A New Zealand plover (Anarhynchus frontalis), remarkable for
having the end of the beak abruptly bent to the right.

CROOKED
Crook"ed (krk"d), a.

1. Characterized by a crook or curve; not straight; turning; bent;
twisted; deformed. "Crooked paths." Locke.
he is deformed, crooked, old, and sere. Shak.

2. Not straightforward; deviating from rectitude; distorted from the
right.
They are a perverse and crooked generation. Deut. xxxii. 5.

3. False; dishonest; fraudulent; as, crooked dealings. Crooked
whisky, whisky on wich the paiment of duty has been fraudulently
evaded. [Slang, U.S.] Barlett.

CROOKEDLY
Crook"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a curved or crooked manner; in a perverse or untoward
manner.

CROOKEDNESS
Crook"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of being crooked; hence, deformity of
body or of mind; deviation from moral rectitude; perverseness.

CROOKEN
Crook"en (krk"'n), v. t.

Defn: To make crooked. [Obs.]

CROOKES SPACE
Crookes space (krooks). [After Sir William Crookes, English chemist,
who first described it.] (Physics)

Defn: The dark space within the negative-pole glow at the cathode of
a vacuum tube, observed only when the pressure is low enough to give
a striated discharge; -- called also Crookes layer.

CROOKES TUBE
Crookes" tube` (krks" tb`). (Phys.)

Defn: A vacuum tube in which the exhaustion is carried to a very high
degree, with the production of a distinct class of effects; -- so
called from W. Crookes who introduced it.

CROOKNECK
Crook"neck`, n.

Defn: Either of two varieties of squash, distinguished by their
tapering, recurved necks. The summer crookneck is botanically a
variety of the pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo) and matures early in the
season. It is pale yellow in color, with warty excrescences. The
winter crookneck belongs to a distinct species (C. moschata) and is
smooth and often striped. [U. S.]

CROON
Croon (krn), v. i. Etym: [OE. croinen, cf. D. kreunen to moan.

1. To make a continuous hollow moan, as cattle do when in pain.
[Scot.] Jamieson.

2. To hum or sing in a low tone; to murmur softly.
Here an old grandmother was crooning over a sick child, and rocking
it to and fro. Dickens.

CROON
Croon, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crooned (krnd); p. pr. & vb. n. Crooning.]

1. To sing in a low tone, as if to one's self; to hum.
Hearing such stanzas crooned in her praise. C. Bront

2. To soothe by singing softly.
The fragment of the childish hymn with which he sung and crooned
himself asleep. Dickens.

CROON
Croon, n.

1. A low, continued moan; a murmur.

2. A low singing; a plain, artless melody.

CROP
Crop (krp), n. Etym: [OE. crop, croppe, craw, top of a plant,
harvest, AS. crop, cropp, craw, top, bunch, ear of corn; akin to D.
krop craw, G. kropf, Icel. kroppr hump or bunch on the body, body;
but cf. also W. cropa, croppa, crop or craw of a bird, Ir. & Gael.
sgroban. Cf. Croup, Crupper, Croup.]

1. The pouchlike enlargement of the gullet of birds, serving as a
receptacle for food; the craw.

2. The top, end, or highest part of anything, especially of a plant
or tree. [Obs.] "Crop and root." Chaucer.

3. That which is cropped, cut, or gathered from a single felld, or of
a single kind of grain or fruit, or in a single season; especially,
the product of what is planted in the earth; fruit; harvest.
Lab'ring the soil, and reaping plenteous crop, Corn, wine, and oil.
Milton.

4. Grain or other product of the field while standing.

5. Anything cut off or gathered.
Guiltless of steel, and from the razor free, It falls a plenteous
crop reserved for thee. Dryden.

6. Hair cut close or short, or the act or style of so cutting; as, a
convict's crop.

7. (Arch.)

Defn: A projecting ornament in carved stone. Specifically, a finial.
[Obs.]

8. (Mining.)
(a) Tin ore prepared for smelting.
(b) Outcrop of a vein or seam at the surface. Knight.

9. A riding whip with a loop instead of a lash. Neck and crop,
altogether; roughly and at once. [Colloq.]

CROP
Crop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cropped (krpt); p. pr. & vb. n. Cropping.]

1. To cut off the tops or tips of; to bite or pull off; to browse; to
pluck; to mow; to reap.
I will crop off from the top of his young twigs a tender one. Ezek.
xvii. 22.

2. Fig.: To cut off, as if in harvest.
Death . . . .crops the growing boys. Creech.

3. To cause to bear a crop; as, to crop a field.

CROP
Crop, v. i.

Defn: To yield harvest. To crop out. (a) (Geol.) To appear above the
surface, as a seam or vein, or inclined bed, as of coal. (b) To come
to light; to be manifest; to appear; as, the peculiarities of an
author crop out.
 -- To crop up, to sprout; to spring up. "Cares crop up in villas."
Beaconsfield.

CROP-EAR
Crop"-ear` (krp"r`), n.

Defn: A person or animal whose ears are cropped.

CROP-EARED
Crop"-eared` (krp"rd`), a.

Defn: Having the ears cropped.

CROPFUL
Crop"ful (-fl), a.

Defn: Having a full crop or belly; satiated. Milton.

CROPPER
Crop"per (krp"pr), n.

1. One that crops.

2. A variety of pigeon with a large crop; a pouter.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: A machine for cropping, as for shearing off bolts or rod iron,
or for facing cloth.

4. A fall on one's head when riding at full speed, as in hunting;
hence, a sudden failure or collapse. [Slang.]

CROPSICK
Crop"sick` (kr"sk`), a.

Defn: Sick from excess in eating or drinking. [Obs.] "Cropsick
drunkards." Tate.
 -- Crop"sick`ness, n. [Obs.] Whitlock.

CROP-TAILED
Crop"-tailed` (-tld`), a.

Defn: Having the tail cropped.

CROQUANTE
Cro`quante", n. [F.]

Defn: A brittle cake or other crisp pastry.

CROQUET
Cro*quet" (kr-k"), n. Etym: [From French; cf. Walloon croque blow,
fillip. F. croquet a crisp biscuit, croquer to crunch, fr. croc a
crackling sound, of imitative origin. Croquet then properly meant a
smart tap on the ball.]

1. An open-air game in which two or more players endeavor to drive
wooden balls, by means of mallets, through a series of hoops or
arches set in the ground according to some pattern.

2. The act of croqueting.

CROQUET
Cro*quet", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Croqueted (-kd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Croqueting (-k"ng).]

Defn: In the game of croquet, to drive away an opponent's ball, after
putting one's own in contact with it, by striking one's own ball with
the mallet.

CROQUETTE
Cro*quette", n. Etym: [F., fr. croquer to crunch.] (Cookery)

Defn: A ball of minced meat, fowl, rice, or other ingredients, highly
seasoned, and fried.

CRORE
Crore (krr), n. Etym: [Hind. karor, Skr. koTi.]

Defn: Ten millions; as, a crore of rupees (which is nearly
$5,000,000). [East Indies] Malcolm.

CROSIER
Cro"sier (kr"zhr), n. Etym: [OE. rocer, croser, croyser, fr. croce
crosier, OF. croce, croche, F. crosse, fr. LL. crocea, crocia, from
the same German or Celtic sourse as F. croc hook; akin to E. crook.]

Defn: The pastoral staff of a bishop (also of an archbishop, being
the symbol of his office as a shepherd of the flock of God.

Note: The true shape of the crosier was with a hooked or curved top;
the archbishop's staff alone bore a cross instead of a crook, and was
of exceptional, not of regular form. Skeat.

CROSIERED
Cro"siered (-zhrd), a.

Defn: Bearing a crosier.

CROSLET
Cros"let (krs"lt; 115), n.

Defn: See Crosslet.

CROSS
Cross (krs; 115), n. Etym: [OE. crois, croys, cros; the former fr.
OF. crois, croiz, F. croix, fr. L. crux; the second is perh. directly
fr. Prov. cros, crotz. fr. the same L. crux; cf. Icel. kross. Cf.
Crucial, Crusade, Cruise, Crux.]

1. A gibbet, cosisting of two pieces of timber placed transversely
upon one another, in various forms, as a T, or +, with the horizontal
piece below the upper end of the upright, or as an X. It was
anciently used in the execution of criminals.
Nailed to the cross By his own nation. Milton.

2. The sign or mark of the cross, made with the finger, or in ink,
etc., or actually represented in some material; the symbol of
Christ's death; the ensign and chosen symbol of Christianity, of a
Christian people, and of Christendom.
The custom of making the sign of the cross with the hand or finger,
as a means of conferring blessing or preserving from evil, is very
old. Schaff-Herzog Encyc.
Before the cross has waned the crescent's ray. Sir W. Scott.
Tis where the cross is preached. Cowper.

3. Affiction regarded as a test of patience or virtue; trial;
disappointment; opposition; misfortune.
Heaven prepares a good man with crosses. B. Jonson.

4. A piece of money stamped with the figure of a cross, also, that
side of such a piece on which the cross is stamped; hence, money in
general.
I should bear no cross if I did bear you; for I think you have no
money in your purse. Shak.

5. An appendage or ornament or anything in the form of a cross; a
badge or ornamental device of the general shape of a cross; hence,
such an ornament, even when varying considerably from that form;
thus, the Cross of the British Order of St. George and St. Michael
consist of a central medallion with seven arms radiating from it.

6. (Arch.)

Defn: A monument in the form of a cross, or surmounted bu a cross,
set up in a public place; as, a market cross; a boundary cross;
Charing Cross in London.
Dun-Edin's Cross, a pillared stone, Rose on a turret octagon. Sir W.
Scott.

7. (Her.)

Defn: A common heraldic bearing, of which there are many varieties.
See the Illustration, above.

8. The crosslike mark or symbol used instead of a signature by those
unable to write.
Five Kentish abbesses . . . .subscribed their names and crosses.
Fuller.

9. Church lands. [Ireland] [Obs.] Sir J. Davies.

10. A line drawn across or through another line.

11. Hence: A mixing of breeds or stock, especially in cattle
breeding; or the product of such intermixture; a hybrid of any kind.
Toning down the ancient Viking into a sort of a cross between Paul
Jones and Jeremy Diddler. Lord Dufferin.

12. (Surveying)

Defn: An instrument for laying of offsets perpendicular to the main
course.

13. (Mech.)

Defn: A pipe-fitting with four branches the axes of which usually
form's right angle. Cross and pile, a game with money, at which it is
put to chance whether a coin shall fall with that side up which bears
the cross, or the other, which is called pile, or reverse; the game
called heads or tails.
 -- Cross bottony or bottoné. See under Bottony.
 -- Cross estoilé (Her.). a cross, each of whose arms is pointed like
the ray of a star; that is, a star having four long points only.
 -- Cross of Calvary. See Calvary, 3.
 -- Southern cross. (Astron.) See under Southern.
 -- To do a thing on the cross, to act dishonestly; -- opposed to
acting on the square. [Slang] -- To take up the cross, to bear
troubles and afflictions with patience from love to Christ.

CROSS
Cross (krs), a.

1. Not parallel; lying or falling athwart; transverse; oblique;
intersecting.
The cross refraction of the second prism. Sir I. Newton.

2. Not accordant with what is wished or expected; interrupting;
adverse; contrary; thwarting; perverse. "A cross fortune." Jer.
Taylor.
The cross and unlucky issue of my design. Glanvill.
The article of the resurrection seems to lie marvelously cross to the
common experience of mankind. South.
We are both love's captives, but with fates so cross, One must be
happy by the other's loss. Dryden.

3. Characterized by, or in a state of, peevishness, fretfullness, or
ill humor; as, a cross man or woman.
He had received a cross answer from his mistress. Jer. Taylor.

4. Made in an opposite direction, or an inverse relation; mutually
inverse; interchanged; as, cross interrogatories; cross marriages, as
when a brother and sister marry persons standing in the same relation
to each other. Cross action (Law), an action brought by a party who
is sued against the person who has sued him, upon the same subject
matter, as upon the same contract. Burrill.
 -- Cross aisle (Arch.), a transept; the lateral divisions of a
cruciform church.
 -- Cross axie. (a) (Mach.) A shaft, windlass, or roller, worked by
levers at opposite ends, as in the copperplate printing press. (b) A
driving axle. with cranks set at an angle of 90º with each other.
 -- Cross bedding (Geol.), oblique lamination of horizontal beds, --
Cross bill. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Cross bitt. Same as Crosspiece.
 -- Cross bond, a form of bricklaying, in which the joints of one
stretcher course come midway between those of the stretcher courses
above and below, a course of headers and stretchers intervening. See
Bond, n., 8.
 -- Cross breed. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Cross breeding. See under Breeding.
 -- Cross buttock, a particular throw in wrestling; hence, an
unexpected defeat or repulse. Smollet.
 -- Cross country, across the country; not by the road. "The cross-
country ride." Cowper.
 -- Cross fertilization, the fertilization of the female products of
one physiological individual by the male products of another, -- as
the fertilization of the ovules of one plant by pollen from another.
See Fertilization.
 -- Cross file, a double convex file, used in dressing out the arms
or crosses of fine wheells.
 -- Cross fire (Mil.), lines of fire, from two or more points or
places, crossing each other.
 -- Cross forked. (Her.) See under Forked.
 -- Cross frog. See under Frog.
 -- Cross furrow, a furrow or trench cut across other furrows to
receive the water running in them and conduct it to the side of the
field.
 -- Cross handle, a handle attached transversely to the axis of a
tool, as in the augur. Knight.
 -- Cross lode (Mining), a vein intersecting the true or principal
lode.
 -- Cross purpose. See Cross-purpose, in the Vocabulary.
 -- Cross reference, a reference made from one part of a book or
register to another part, where the same or an allied subject is
treated of.
 -- Cross sea (Naut.), a chopping sea, in which the waves run in
contrary directions.
 -- Cross stroke, a line or stroke across something, as across the
letter t.
 -- Cross wind, a side wind; an unfavorable wind.
 -- Cross wires, fine wires made to traverse the field of view in a
telescope, and moved by a screw with a graduated head, used for
delicate astronomical observations; spider lines. Fixed cross wires
are also used in microscopes, etc.

Syn.
 -- Fretful; peevish. See Fretful.

CROSS
Cross, prep.

Defn: Athwart; across. [Archaic or Colloq.] A fox was taking a walk
one night cross a village. L'Estrange. To go cross lots, to go across
the fields; totake a short cut. [Colloq.]

CROSS
Cross, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crossed (krst; 115); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crossing.]

1. To put across or athwart; to cause to intersect; as, to cross the
arms.

2. To lay or draw something, as a line, across; as, to cross the
letter t.

3. To pass from one side to the other of; to pass or move over; to
traverse; as, to cross a stream.
A hunted hare . . . crosses and confounds her former track. I. Watts.

4. To pass, as objects going in an opposite direction at the same
time. "Your kind letter crossed mine." J. D. Forbes.

5. To run counter to; to thwart; to obstruct; to hinder; to clash or
interfere with.
In each thing give him way; cross him in nothing. Shak.
An oyster may be crossed onlove. Sheridan.

6. To interfere and cut off; to debar. [Obs.]
To cross me from the golden time I look for. Shak.

7. To make the sign of the cross upon; -- followed by the reflexive
pronoun; as, he crossed himself.

8. To cancel by marking crosses on or over, or drawing a line across;
to erase; -- usually with out, off, or over; as, to cross out a name.

9. To cause to interbreed; -- said of different stoocks or races; to
mix the breed of. To cross one's path, to oppose one's plans.
Macualay.

CROSS
Cross, v. i.

1. To lie or be athwart.

2. To move or pass from one side to the other, or from place to
place; to make a transit; as, to cross from New York to Liverpool.

3. To be inconsistent. [Obs.]
Men's actions do not always cross with reason. Sir P. Sidney.

4. To interbreed, as races; to mix distinct breeds.
If two individuals of distinct races cross, a third is invariably
produced different from either. Coleridge.

CROSS-ARMED
Cross"-armed` (krs"rmd), a.

Defn: With arms crossed.

CROSS-BANDED
Cross"-band`ed (-bnd`d), a.

Defn: A term used when a narrow ribbon of veneer is inserted into the
surfase of any piece of furniture, wainscoting, etc., so that the
grain of it is contrary to the general surface.

CROSSBAR
Cross"bar` (-br`), n.

Defn: A transverse bar or piece, as a bar across a door, or as the
iron bar or stock which passes through the shank of an anchor to
insure its turning fluke down. Russell. Crossbar shot, a projectile
which folds into a sphere for loading, but on leaving the gun expands
to a cross with a quarter ball at the end of each arm; -- used in
naval actions for cutting the enemy's rigging.

CROSSBARRED
Cross"barred` (-brd`), a.

1. Secured by, or furnished with, crossbars. Milton.

2. Made or patterned in lines crossing each other; as, crossbarred
muslin.

CROSSBEAK
Cross"beak` (-bk`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Crossbill.

CROSSBEAM
Cross"beam` (-bm`). n.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A girder.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A beam laid across the bitts, to which the cable is fastened
when riding at anchor.

CROSS-BEARER
Cross"-bear`er (-br`r), n. (R.C.Ch.)

Defn: A subdeacon who bears a cross before an archbishop or primate
on solemn occasions.

CROSSBILL
Cross"bill` (-bl`). (Law)

Defn: A bill brought by a defendant, in an equity or chancery suit,
against the plaintiff, respecting the matter in question in that
suit. Bouvier.

Note: In criminal practice, cross bills of indictment for assault, in
which the prosecutor in once case is the defendant in another, may be
tried together.

CROSSBILL
Cross"bill`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of the genus Loxia, allied to the finches. Their
mandibles are strongly curved and cross each other; the crossbeak.

CROSS-BIRTH
Cross"-birth` (-brth`), n. (Med.)

Defn: Any preternatural labor, in whiche the boly of the child lies
across the pelvis of the mother, so that the shoulder, arm, or trunk
is the part first presented at the mouth of the uterus.

CROSSBITE
Cross"bite` (-bt`), n.

Defn: A deeption; a cheat. [Obs.]

CROSSBITE
Cross"bite", b. t.

Defn: To deceive; to trick; to gull. [Obs.]

CROSSBONES
Cross"bones` (-bnz`), n. pl.

Defn: A representation of two of the leg bones or arm bones of a
skeleton, laid crosswise, often surmounted with a skull, and serving
as a symbol of death.
Crossbones, scythes, hourglasses, and other lugubrios emblems of
mortality. Hawthorne.

CROSSBOW
Cross"bow` (-b`), n. (Archery)

Defn: A weapon, used in discharging arrows, formed by placing a bow
crosswise on a stock.

CROSSBOWER
Cross"bow`er (-b`r), n.

Defn: A crossbowman.[Obs.]

CROSSBOWMAN
Cross"bow`man (-man), n.

Defn: One who shoots with a crossbow. See Arbalest.

CROSSBRED
Cross"bred` (-brd`), a. (Stock Breeding)

Defn: Produced by mixing distinct breeds; mongrel.

CROSSBREED
Cross"breed` (-brd`), n.

1. A breed or an animal produced from parents of different breeds; a
new variety, as of plants, combining the qualites of two parent
varieties or stocks.

2. Anything partaking of the natures of two different things; a
hybrid.

CROSS-BUN
Cross"-bun` (-bn`), n.

Defn: A bun or cake marked with a cross, and intended to be eaten on
Good Friday.

CROSS-BUTTOCK
Cross"-but`tock, n. (Wrestling)

Defn: A throw in which the wrestler turns his left side to his
opponent, places his left leg across both legs of his opponent, and
pulls him forward over his hip; hence, an unexpected defeat or
repulse.

CROSS-CROSSLET
Cross`-cross"let (-krs"lt; 115), n. (Her.)

Defn: A cross having the three upper ends crossed, so as to from
three small crosses.

CROSSCUT
Cross"cut` (-kt`)

Defn: , v. t. To cut across or through; to intersect.

CROSSCUT
Cross"cut`, n.

1. A short cut across; a path shorter than by the high road.

2. (Mining)

Defn: A level driven across the course of a vein, or across the main
workings, as from one gangway to another. Crosscut saw. (a) A saw,
the teeth of which are so set as to adapt it for sawing wood
crosswise of the grain rather than lengthwise. (b) A saw managed by
two men, one at each end, for cutting large logs crosswise.

CROSS-DAYS
Cross"-days` (-dz`), n. pl. (Eccl.)

Defn: The three days preceding the Feast of the Ascension.

CROSSE
Crosse, n. [F., crosier, hooked stick.]

Defn: The implement with which the ball is thrown and caught in the
game of lacrosse.

CROSSETTE
Cros*sette" (krs-st`), n. Etym: [F., dim. of crosse. See Crosier.]
(Arch.)
(a) A return in one of the corners of the architrave of a door or
window; -- called also ancon, ear, elbow.
(b) The shoulder of a joggled keystone.

CROSS-EXAMINATION
Cross"-ex*am`i*na"tion (krs"gz-m`-n"shn; 115), n. (Low)

Defn: The interrogating or questioning of a witness by the party
against whom he has been called and examined. See Examination.

CROSS-EXAMINE
Cross"-ex*am"ine (-m"n), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cross-examined (-nd); p.
pr. & vb. n. Cross-examining.] (Low)

Defn: To examine or question, as a witness who has been called and
examined by the opposite party. "The opportunity to cross-examine the
witnesses." Kent.

CROSS-EXAMINER
Cross"-ex*am"in*er (-r), n.

Defn: One who cross-examines or conducts a crosse-examination.

CROSS-EYE
Cross"-eye` (-`), n.

Defn: See Strabismus.

CROSS-EYED
Cross"-eyed` (-d`), a.

Defn: Affected with strabismus; squint-eyed; squinting.

CROSS-FERTILIZE
Cross"-fer"ti*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cross-fertilized; p. pr. &
vb. n. Cross-fertilizing.] (Bot.)

Defn: To fertilize, as the stigmas of a flower or plant, with the
pollen from another individual of the  same species.

CROSSFISH
Cross"fish` (-fsh`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A starfish.

CROSSFLOW
Cross"flow` (-fl`), v. i.

Defn: To flow across, or in a contrary direction. "His crossflowing
course." Milton.

CROSS-GARNET
Cross"-gar`net (krs"gr`nt), n.

Defn: A hinge having one strap perpendicular and the other strap
horizontal giving it the form of an Egyptian or T cross.

CROSSGRAINED
Cross"grained (-grnd`), a.

1. Having the grain or fibers run diagonally, or more or less
transversely an irregularly, so as to interfere with splitting or
planing.
If the stuff proves crossgrained, . . . then you must turn your stuff
to plane it the contrary way. Moxon.

2. Perverse; untractable; contrary.
She was none of your crossgrained, termagant, scolding jades.
Arbuthnot.

CROSSHATCH
Cross"hatch` (-hch`; 224), v. t.

Defn: To shade by means of crosshatching.

CROSSHATCHING
Cross"hatch`ing, n.

Defn: In drawing and line engraving, shading with lines that cross
one another at an angle.

CROSSHEAD
Cross"head` (-hd), n. (Mach.)

Defn: A beam or bar across the head or end of a rod, etc., or a block
attached to it and carrying a knuckle pin; as the solid crosspiece
running between parallel slides, which receives motion from the
piston of a steam engine and imparts it to the connecting rod, which
is hinged to the crosshead.

CROSSING
Cross"ing, n. Etym: [See Cross, v. t. ]

1. The act by which anything is crossed; as, the crossing of the
ocean.

2. The act of making the sign of the cross. Bp. Hall.

3. The act of interbreeding; a mixing of breeds.

4. Intersection, as of two paths or roads.

5. A place where anything (as a stream) is crossed; a paved walk
across a street.

6. Contradiction; thwarting; obstruction.
I do not bear these crossings. Shak.

CROSSJACK
Cross"jack` (krs"jk` or kr"jk`), n. (Naut.)

Defn: The lowest square sail, or the lower yard of the mizzenmast.

CROSSLEGGED
CRoss"legged` (-lgd`), a.

Defn: Having the legs crossed.

CROSSLET
Cross"let (-lEt), n. Etym: [Dim. of cross.]

1. A small cross. Spenser.

2. Etym: [Cf. OF. croisel crucible, and E. Cresset.]

Defn: A crucible. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CROSSLET
Cross"let, a. (Her.)

Defn: Crossed again; -- said of a cross the arms of which are
crossed. SeeCross-crosslet.

CROSSLY
Cross"ly, adv.

Defn: Athwart; adversely; unfortunately; peevishly; fretfully; with
ill humor.

CROSSNESS
Cross"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being cross; peevishness; fretfulness;
ill humor.

CROSSOPTERYGIAN
Cros*sop`ter*yg"i*an (krs-sp`tr-j-an), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Crossopterygii.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Crossopterygii.

CROSSOPTERYGII
Cros*sop`te*ryg"i*i (krs-sp`t-rj-), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of ganoid fishes including among living species the
bichir (Polypterus). See Brachioganoidei.

CROSSPATCH
Cross"patch` (-pch`; 224), n.

Defn: An ill-natured person. [Colloq.] "Crosspatch, draw the latch."
Mother Goose.

CROSS-PAWL
Cross"-pawl` (-pl`), n. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: Same as Cross-spale.

CROSSPIECE
Cross"piece` (krs"ps`; 115), n.

1. A piece of any structure which is fitted or framed crosswise.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A bar or timber connecting two knightheads or two bitts.

CROSS-PURPOSE
Cross"-pur`pose (-pr`ps), n.

1. A counter or opposing purpose; hence, that which is inconsistent
or contradictory. Shaftesbury.

2. pl.

Defn: A conversational game, in which questions and answers are made
so as to involve ludicrous combinations of ideas. Pepys. To be at
cross-purposes, to misunderstand or to act counter to one another
without intending it; -- said of persons.

CROSS-QUESTION
Cross"-ques`tion (-kws`chn), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cross-questioned (-
chnd), p. pr. & vb. n. Cross-questioning.]

Defn: To cross-examine; to subject to close questioning.

CROSS-READING
Cross"-read`ing (rd`ng), n.

Defn: The reading of the lines of a newspaper directly across the
page, instead of down the columns, thus producing a ludicrous
combination of ideas.

CROSSROAD
Cross"road` (-rd`), n.

Defn: A road that crosses another; an obscure road intersecting or
avoiding the main road.

CROSSROW
Cross"row` (-r`), n.

1. The alphabet; -- called also Christcross-row.
And from the crossrow plucks the letter G. Shak.

2. A row that crosses others.

CROSSRUFF
Cross"ruff` (-rf`), n. (Whist)

Defn: The play in whist where partners trump each a different suit,
and lead to each other for that purpose; -- called also seesaw.

CROSS-SPALE; CROSS-SPALL
Cross"-spale` (-spl`), Cross"-spall` (-spl`), n. Etym: [See Spale &
Spall.] (Shipbuilding)

Defn: One of the temporary wooden braces, placed horizontally across
a frame to hold it in position until the deck beams are in; a cross-
pawl.

CROSS-SPRINGER
Cross"-spring`er (-sprng`r), n. (Arch.)

Defn: One of the ribs in a groined arch, springing from the corners
in a diagonal direction.

Note: [See Illustr. of Groined vault.]

CROSS-STAFF
Cross"-staff` (-stf`), n.

1. An instrument formerly used at sea for taking the altitudes of
celestial bodies.

2. A surveyor's instrument for measuring offsets.

CROSS-STITCH
Cross"-stitch` (-stch`; 224), n.

Defn: A form of stitch, where the stitches are diagonal and in pairs,
the thread of one stitch crossing that of the other. "Tent and cross-
stitch." Sir W. Scott.
 -- Cross"-stitch`, v. t. & i.

CROSS-STONE
Cross"-stone` (-stn`), n. (Min.)

Defn: See Harmotome, and Staurotide.

CROSS-TAIL
Cross"-tail` (-tl`), n. (Steam Engine)

Defn: A bar connecting the ends of the side rods or levers of a
backaction or side-lever engine.

CROSS-TIE
Cross"-tie` (-t`), n. (Railroad)

Defn: A sleeper supporting and connecting the rails, and holding them
in place.

CROSS-TINING
Cross"-tin`ing (krs"tn`ng), n. (Agric.)

Defn: A mode of harrowing crosswise, or transversely to the ridges.
Crabb.

CROSSTREES
Cross"trees` (-trz`), n. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Pieces of timber at a masthead, to which are attached the upper
shrouds. At the head of lower masts in large vessels, they support a
semicircular platform called the "top."

CROSS-VAULTING
Cross"-vault`ing (-vlt`ng), n. (Arch.)

Defn: Vaulting formed by the intersection of two or more simple
vaults.

CROSSWAY
Cross"way` (-w`), n.

Defn: See Crossroad.

CROSS-WEEK
Cross"-week` (-wk`), n.

Defn: Rogation week, when the cross was borne in processions.

CROSSWISE
Cross"wise` (-wz`), adv.

Defn: In the form of a cross; across; transversely. Longfellow.

CROSSWORT
Cross"wort` (-wrt`), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several inconspicuous plants having leaves in
whorls of four, as species of Crucianella, Valantia, etc.

CROTALARIA
Crot`a*la"ri*a (krt`-l"r- or kr`t-l"r-A), n. Etym: [NL. See
Crotalum.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of leguminous plants; rattlebox.

Note: Crotalaria juncea furnishes the fiber called sunn or Bombay
hemp.

CROTALINE
Crot"a*line (krt"-ln or kr`t-), a. Etym: [See Crotalus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling, or pertaining to, the Crotalidae, or Rattlesnake
family.

CROTALO
Crot"a*lo (-l), n.

Defn: A Turkish musical instrument.

CROTALUM
Crot"a*lum (-lm), n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Mus.)

Defn: A kind of castanet used by the Corybantes.

CROTALUS
Crot"a*lus (-ls), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of poisonous serpents, including the rattlesnakes.

CROTAPHITE
Crot"a*phite (krt"-ft), n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The temple or temporal fossa. Also used adjectively.

CROTAPHITIC
Crot`a*phit"ic (krt`-ft"k), n. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the temple; temporal.

CROTCH
Crotch (krch; 224), n.; pl. Crotches (-. Etym: [Cf. Crotchet,
Crutch.]

1. The angle formed by the parting of two legs or branches; a fork;
the point where a trunk divides; as, the crotch of a tree.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A stanchion or post of wood or iron, with two arms for
supporting a boom, spare yards, etc.; -- called also crane and
crutch. Totten.

CROTCH CHAIN
Crotch chain. (Logging)

Defn: A form of tackle for loading a log sideways on a sled, skidway,
etc.

CROTCHED
Crotched (krcht), a.

1. Having a crotch; forked.

2. Cross; peevish. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

CROTCHET
Crotch"et (krch"t; 224), n. Etym: [F. crochet, prop., a little hook,
a dim. from the same source as croc hook. See Crook, and cf. Crochet,
Crocket, Crosier.]

1. A forked support; a crotch.
The crotchets of their cot in columns rise. Dryden.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A time note, with a stem, having one fourth the value of a
semibreve, one half that of a minim, and twice that of a quaver; a
quarter note.

3. (Fort.)

Defn: An indentation in the glacis of the covered way, at a point
where a traverse is placed.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: The arrangement of a body of troops, either forward or
rearward, so as to form a line nearly perpendicular to the general
line of battle.

5. (Print.)

Defn: A bracket. See Bracket.

6. (Med.)

Defn: An instrument of a hooked form, used in certain cases in the
extraction of a fetus. Dunglison.

7. A perverse fancy; a whim which takes possession of the mind; a
conceit.
He ruined himself and all that trusted in him by crotchets that he
could never explain to any rational man. De Quincey.

CROTCHET
Crotch"et, v. i.

Defn: To play music in measured time. [Obs.] Donne.

CROTCHETED
Crotch"et*ed, a.

Defn: Marked or measured by crotchets; having musical notation.
Harmar (1587).

CROTCHETINESS
Crotch"et*i*ness (krch"t--ns), n.

Defn: The state or character of being crotchety, or whimsical.
This belief in rightness is a kind of conscientiousness, and when it
degenerates it becomes crotchetiness. J. Grote.

CROTCHETY
Crotch"et*y (krch"t-), a.

Defn: Given to crotchets; subject to whims; as, a crotchety man.

CROTON
Cro"ton (kr"tn), n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of euphorbiaceous plants belonging to tropical
countries. Croton oil (Med.), a viscid, acrid, brownish yellow oil
obtained from the seeds of Croton Tiglium, a small tree of the East
Indies. It is a most powerful drastic cathartic, and is used
externally as a pustulant.

CROTON BUG
Cro"ton bug` (bg`). Etym: [From the Croton water of New York.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, active, winged species of cockroach (Ectobia
Germanica), the water bug. It is common aboard ships, and in houses
in cities, esp. in those with hot-water pipes.

CROTONIC
Cro*ton"ic (kr-tn"k), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or derived from, a plant of the genus
Croton, or from croton oil. Crotonic acid (Chem.), a white
crystalline organic acid, C3H5.CO2H, of the ethylene, or acrylic acid
series. It was so named because formerly supposed to exist in croton
oil. Also, any acid metameric with crotonic acid proper.

Note: The acid characteristic of croton oil is tiglic or tiglinic
acid, a derivative of crotonic acid.

CROTONINE
Cro"ton*ine (kr"tn-n), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed alkaloid obtained from croton oil by boiling it with
water and magnesia, since found to be merely a magnesia soap of the
oil. Watts.

CROTONYLENE
Cro*ton"y*lene (kr-tn"-ln), n. Etym: [Crotonic + acet-ylene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, volatile, pungent liquid, C4H6, produced
artificially, and regarded as an unsaturated hydrocarbon of the
acetylene series, and analogous to crotonic acid.

CROTTLES
Crot"tles (krt"t'lz), n. pl. Etym: [Gael. crotal.]

Defn: A name given to various lichens gathered for dyeing. [Scot.]

CROUCH
Crouch (krouch; 129), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Crouched (kroucht); p. pr.
& vb. n. Crouching.] Etym: [OE. cruchen, crouchen, crouken; cf. E.
creep, G. krauchen, kriechen, or E. crook to bend, also crouch to
cross.]

1. To bend down; to stoop low; to lie close to the ground with the
logs bent, as an animal when waiting for prey, or in fear.
Now crouch like a cur. Beau. & Fl.

2. To bend servilely; to stoop meanly; to fawn; to cringe. "A
crouching purpose." Wordsworth.
Must I stand and crouch Under your testy humor Shak.

CROUCH
Crouch, v. t. Etym: [OE. cruchen, crouchen, from cruche, crouche,
cross. Cf. Crosier, Crook.]

1. To sign with the cross; to bless. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To bend, or cause to bend, as in humility or fear.
She folded her arms across her chest, And crouched her head upon her
breast. Colerige.

CROUCHED
Crouched (kroucht), a.

Defn: Marked with the sign of the cross. [Obs.] Crouched friar. See
Crutched friar, under Crutched.

CROUD
Croud (kroud), n. (Mus.)

Defn: See Crowd, a violin.

CROUKE
Crouke (krouk), n.

Defn: A crock; a jar. [Obs.] Chauser.

CROUP
Croup (krp), n. Etym: [F. croupe hind quarters, croup, rump, of
German or Icel. origin; cf. Icel. kryppa hump; akin to Icel. kroppr.
Cf. Crop.]

Defn: The hinder part or buttocks of certain quadrupeds, especially
of a horse; hence, the place behind the saddle.
So light to the croup the fair lady he swung, So light to the saddle
before her he sprung. Sir W. Scott.

CROUP
Croup (krp), n. Etym: [Scot. croup, cf. croup, crowp, to croak, to
cry or speak with a hoarse voice; cf. also LG. kropp, G. kropf, the
crop or craw of a bird, and tumor on the anterior part of the neck, a
wen, etc. Cf. Crop.] (Med.)

Defn: An inflammatory affection of the larynx or trachea, accompanied
by a hoarse, ringing cough and stridulous, difficult breathing; esp.,
such an affection when associated with the development of a false
membrane in the air passages (also called membranous croup). See
False croup, under False, and Diphtheria.

CROUPADE
Crou*pade" (kr-pd"), n. Etym: [F., fr. croupe hind quarters.] (Man.)

Defn: A leap in which the horse pulls up his hind legs toward his
belly.

CROUPAL
Croup"al (krp"al), a.

Defn: Croupy.

CROUPER
Croup"er (krp"r), n.

Defn: See Crupper.

CROUPIER
Crou"pi*er (kr, n. Etym: [F.; prop., one who sits on the croup, and
hence, in the second place; an assistant. See 1st Croup.]

1. One who presides at a gaming table and collects the stakes.

2. One who, at a public dinner party, sits at the lower end of the
table as assistant chairman.

CROUPOUS
Croup"ous (krp"s), a. (Med.)

Defn: Relating to or resembling croup; especially, attended with the
formation of a deposit or membrance like that found in membranous
croup; as, croupous laryngitis. Croupous pneumonia, pneumonia
attended with deposition of fibrinous matter in the air vesicles of
the lungs; ordinary acute pneumonia.

CROUPY
Croup"y (krp"), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to croup; resembling or indicating croup; as,
a croupy cough.

CROUSE
Crouse (krs), a. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Brisk; lively; bold; self-complacent. [Scot.] Burns.

CROUSTADE
Crou`stade" (kr`std"), n. Etym: [F., fr. cro a crust, OF. crouste.]
(Cookery)

Defn: Bread baked in a mold, and scooped out, to serve minces upon.
Bishop.

CROUT
Crout (krout), n. Etym: [G. kraut.]

Defn: See Sourkrout.

CROUTON
Crou`ton" (kr`tn"), n. Etym: [F. cro, fr. cro a crust.] (Cookery)

Defn: Bread cut in various forms, and fried lightly in butter or oil,
to garnish hashes, etc.

CROW
Crow (kr), v. i. [imp. Crew (kr or Crowed (kr; p. p. Crowed (Crown
(krn), Obs.); p. pr. & vb. n. Crowing.] Etym: [AS. cr; akin to D.
kraijen, G. kr, cf. Lith. groti to croak. sq. root24. Cf. Crake.]

1. To make the shrill sound characteristic of a cock, either in joy,
gayety, or defiance. "The cock had crown." Bayron.
The morning cock crew loud. Shak.

2. To shout in exultation or defiance; to brag.

3. To utter a sound expressive of joy or pleasure.
The sweetest little maid, That ever crowed for kisses. Tennyson.
To crow over, to exult over a vanquished antagonist.
Sennacherib crowing over poor Jerusalem. Bp. Hall.

CROW
Crow, n. Etym: [AS. cr a crow (in sense 1); akin to D. kraai, G. kr;
cf. Icel. kr crow. So named from its cry, from AS. cr to crow. See
Crow, v. i. ]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird, usually black, of the genus Corvus, having a strong
conical beak, with projecting bristles. It has a harsh, croaking
note. See Caw.

Note: The common crow of Europe, or carrion crow, is C. corone. The
common American crow is C. Americanus. See Carrion crow, and
Illustr., under Carrion.

2. A bar of iron with a beak, crook, or claw; a bar of iron used as a
lever; a crowbar.
Get me an iron crow, and bring it straight Unto my cell. Shak.

3. The cry of the cock. See Crow, v. i., 1.

4. The mesentery of a beast; -- so called by butchers. Carrion crow.
See under Carrion.
 -- Crow blackbird (Zoöl.), an American bird (Quiscalus quiscula); --
called also purple grackle.
 -- Crow pheasant (Zoöl.), an Indian cuckoo; the common coucal. It is
believed by the natives to give omens. See Coucal.
 -- Crow shrike (Zoöl.), any bird of the genera Gymnorhina, Craticus,
or Strepera, mostly from Australia.
 -- Red-legged crow. See Crough.
 -- As the crow flies, in a direct line.
 -- To pick a crow, To pluck a crow, to state and adjust a difference
or grievance (with any one).

CROWBAR
Crow"bar` (kr"br), n.

Defn: A bar of iron sharpened at one end, and used as a lever.

CROWBERRY
Crow`ber`ry (kr"br`r), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A heathlike plant of the genus Empetrum, and its fruit, a
black, scarcely edible berry; -- also called crakeberry.

CROWD
Crowd (kroud), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crowded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Crowding.] Etym: [OE. crouden, cruden, AS. cr; cf. D. kruijen to push
in a wheelbarrow.]

1. To push, to press, to shove. Chaucer.

2. To press or drive together; to mass together. "Crowd us and crush
us." Shak.

3. To fill by pressing or thronging together; hence, to encumber by
excess of numbers or quantity.
The balconies and verandas were crowded with spectators, anxious to
behold their future sovereign. Prescott.

4. To press by solicitation; to urge; to dun; hence, to treat
discourteously or unreasonably. [Colloq.] To crowd out, to press out;
specifically, to prevent the publication of; as, the press of other
matter crowded out the article.
 -- To crowd sail (Naut.), to carry an extraordinary amount of sail,
with a view to accelerate the speed of a vessel; to carry a press of
sail.

CROWD
Crowd, v. i.

1. To press together or collect in numbers; to swarm; to throng.
The whole company crowded about the fire. Addison.
Images came crowding on his mind faster than he could put them into
words. Macaulay.

2. To urge or press forward; to force one's self; as, a man crowds
into a room.

CROWD
Crowd, n. Etym: [AS. croda. See Crowd, v. t. ]

1. A number of things collected or closely pressed together; also, a
number of things adjacent to each other.
A crowd of islands. Pope.

2. A number of persons congregated or collected into a close body
without order; a throng.
The crowd of Vanity Fair. Macualay.
Crowds that stream from yawning doors. {\*\bkmkstart here}Tennyson.

3. The lower orders of people; the populace; the vulgar; the rabble;
the mob.
To fool the crowd with glorious lies. Tennyson.
He went not with the crowd to see a shrine. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Throng; multitude. See Throng.

CROWD
Crowd, n. Etym: [W. crwth; akin to Gael. cruit. Perh. named from its
shape, and akin to Gr. curve. Cf. Rote.]

Defn: An ancient instrument of music with six strings; a kind of
violin, being the oldest known stringed instrument played with a bow.
[Written also croud, crowth, cruth, and crwth.]
A lackey that . . . can warble upon a crowd a little. B. Jonson.

CROWD
Crowd, v. t.

Defn: To play on a crowd; to fiddle. [Obs.] "Fiddlers, crowd on."
Massinger.

CROWDER
Crowd"er (kroud"r), n.

Defn: One who plays on a crowd; a fiddler. [Obs.] "Some blind
crowder." Sir P. Sidney.

CROWDER
Crowd"er, n.

Defn: One who crowds or pushes.

CROWDY
Crow"dy (krou"d), n.

Defn: A thick gruel of oatmeal and milk or water; food of the
porridge kind. [Scot.]

CROWFLOWER
Crow"flow`er (kr"flou`r), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of campion; according to Gerarde, the Lychnis Flos-
cuculi.

CROWFOOT
Crow"foot` (kr"ft`), n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The genus Ranunculus, of many species; some are common weeds,
others are flowering plants of considerable beauty.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A number of small cords rove through a long block, or euphroe,
to suspend an awning by.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: A caltrop. [Written also crow's-foot.]

4. (Well Boring)

Defn: A tool with a side claw for recovering broken rods, etc.
Raymond.

CROWKEEPER
Crow"keep`er (-kp`r), n.

Defn: A person employed to scare off crows; hence, a scarecrow.
[Obs.]
Scaring the ladies like a crowkeeper. Shak.

CROWN
Crown (krn),

Defn: p. p. of Crow. [Obs.]

CROWN
Crown (kroun), n. Etym: [OE. corone, coroun, crune, croun, OF.
corone, corune, F. couronne, fr. L. corona crown, wreath; akin to Gr.
curvus curved, E. curve, curb, Gael. cruinn round, W. crwn. Cf.
Cornice, Corona, Coroner, Coronet.]

1. A wreath or garland, or any ornamental fillet encircling the head,
especially as a reward of victory or mark of honorable distinction;
hence, anything given on account of, or obtained by, faithful or
successful effort; a reward. "An olive branch and laurel crown."
Shak.
They do it to obtain a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptiblle. 1
Cor. ix. 25.
Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life.
Rev. ii. 10.

2. A royal headdress or cap of sovereignty, worn by emperors, kings,
princes, etc.

Note: Nobles wear coronets; the triple crown of the pope is usually
called a tiara. The crown of England is a circle of gold with
crosses, fleurs-de-lis, and imperial arches, inclosing a crimson
velvet cap, and ornamented with thousands of diamonds and precious
stones.

3. The person entitled to wear a regal or imperial crown; the
sovereign; -- with the definite article.
Parliament may be dissolved by the demise of the crown. Blackstone.
Large arrears of pay were due to the civil and military servants of
the crown. Macaulay.

4. Imperial or regal power or dominion; sovereignty.
There is a power behind the crown greater than the crown itself.
Junius.

5. Anything which imparts beauty, splendor, honor, dignity, or
finish.
The hoary head is a crown of glory, if it be found in the way of
righteousness. Prov. xvi. 31.
A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband. Prov. xvi. 4.

6. Highest state; acme; consummation; perfection.
Mutual love, the crown of all our bliss. Milton.

7. The topmost part of anything; the summit.
The steepy crown of the bare mountains. Dryden.

8. The topmost part of the head (see Illust. of Bird.); that part of
the head from which the hair descends toward the sides and back;
also, the head or brain.
From toe to crown he'll fill our skin with pinches. Shak.
Twenty things which I set down: This done, I twenty more-had in my
crown. Bunyan.

9. The part of a hat above the brim.

10. (Anat.)

Defn: The part of a tooth which projects above the gum; also, the top
or grinding surface of a tooth.

11. (Arch.)

Defn: The vertex or top of an arch; -- applied generally to about one
third of the curve, but in a pointed arch to the apex only.

12. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Corona.

13. (Naut.)
(a) That part of an anchor where the arms are joined to the shank.
(b) The rounding, or rounded part, of the deck from a level line. (c)
pl.

Defn: The bights formed by the several turns of a cable. Totten.

14. The upper range of facets in a rose diamond.

15. The dome of a furnace.

16. (Geom.)

Defn: The area inclosed between two concentric perimeters.

17. (Eccl.)

Defn: A round spot shaved clean on the top of the head, as a mark of
the clerical state; the tonsure.

18. A size of writing paper. See under Paper.

19. A coin stamped with the image of a crown; hence,a denomination of
money; as, the English crown, a silver coin of the value of five
shillings sterling, or a little more than $1.20; the Danish or
Norwegian crown, a money of account, etc., worth nearly twenty-seven
cents.

20. An ornaments or decoration representing a crown; as, the paper is
stamped with a crown. Crown of aberration (Astron.), a spurious
circle around the true circle of the sun.
 -- Crown antler (Zoöl.), the topmost branch or tine of an antler;
also, an antler having a cuplike top, with tines springing from the
rim.
 -- Crown bar, one of the bars which support the crown sheet of
steam-boiler furnace.
 -- Crown glass. See under Glass.
 -- Crown imperial. (Bot.) See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Crown jewels, the jewels appertaining to the sovereign while
wearing the crown. [Eng.] "She pawned and set to sale the crown
jewels." Milton.
 -- Crown land, land belonging to the crown, that is, to the
sovereign.
 -- Crown law, the law which governs criminal prosecutions. [Eng.] --
Crown lawyer, one employed by the crown, as in criminal cases. [Eng.]
-- Crown octavo. See under Paper.
 -- Crown office. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Crown paper. See under Paper.
 -- Crown piece. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Crown Prince, the heir apparent to a crown or throne.
 -- Crown saw. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Crown scab (Far.), a cancerous sore formed round the corners of a
horse's hoof.
 -- Crown sheet, the flat plate which forms the top of the furnace or
fire box of an internally fired steam boiler.
 -- Crown shell. (Zoöl.) See Acorn-shell.
 -- Crown side. See Crown office.
 -- Crown tax (Eccl. Hist.), a golden crown, or its value, which was
required annually from the Jews by the king of Syria, in the time of
the Maccabees. 1 Macc. x. 20.
 -- Crown wheel. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Crown work. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Pleas of the crown (Engl. law), criminal actions.

CROWN
Crown (kroun), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crowned (kround); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crowning.] Etym: [OE. coronen, corunen, crunien, crounien, OF.
coroner, F. couronner, fr. L. coronare, fr. corona a crown. See
Crown, n.]

1. To cover, decorate, or invest with a crown; hence, to invest with
royal dignity and power.
Her who fairest does appear, Crown her queen of all the year. Dryden.
Crown him, and say, "Long live our emperor." Shak.

2. To bestow something upon as a mark of honor, dignity, or
recompense; to adorn; to dignify.
Thou . . . hast crowned him with glory and honor. Ps. viii. 5.

3. To form the topmost or finishing part of; to complete; to
consummate; to perfect.
Amidst the grove that crowns yon tufted hill. Byron.
One day shall crown the alliance. Shak.
To crown the whole, came a proposition. Motley.

4. (Mech.)

Defn: To cause to round upward; to make anything higher at the middle
than at the edges, as the face of a machine pulley.

5. (Mil.)

Defn: To effect a lodgment upon, as upon the crest of the glacis, or
the summit of the breach. To crown a knot (Naut.), to lay the ends of
the strands over and under each other.

CROWN COLONY
Crown colony.

Defn: A colony of the British Empire not having an elective
magistracy or a parliament, but governed by a chief magistrate
(called Governor) appointed by the Crown, with executive councilors
nominated by him and not elected by the people.

CROWNED
Crowned (kround), p. p. & a.

1. Having or wearing a crown; surmounted, invested, or adorned, with
a crown, wreath, garland, etc.; honored; rewarded; completed;
consummated; perfected. "Crowned with one crest." Shak. "Crowned with
conquest." Milton.
With surpassing glory crowned. Milton.

2. Great; excessive; supreme. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CROWNER
Crown"er (kroun"r), n.

1. One who, or that which, crowns. Beau. & FL.

2. Etym: [Cf. Coroner.]

Defn: A coroner. [Prov. Eng. or Scot.]

CROWNET
Crown"et (kroun"t), n. Etym: [See Crown, Coronet.]

1. A coronet. [R.] P. Whitehead.

2. The ultimate end and result of an undertaking; a chief end. [Obs.]
O this false soul of Egypt! this grave charm . . . . Whose bosom was
my crownet, my chief end. Shak.

CROWN-IMPERIAL
Crown"-im*pe"ri*al (-m-p"r-al), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A spring-blooming plant (Fritillaria imperialis) of the Lily
family, having at the top of the stalk a cluster of pendent bell-
shaped flowers surmounted with a tuft of green leaves.

CROWNLAND
Crown"land`, n. [G. kronland.]

Defn: In Austria-Hungary, one of the provinces, or largest
administrative divisions of the monarchy; as, the crownland of Lower
Austria.

CROWNLESS
Crown"less, a.

Defn: Without a crown.

CROWNLET
Crown"let (-lt), n.

Defn: A coronet. [Poetic] Sir W. Scott.

CROWN OFFICE
Crown" of`fice (f`fs; 115). (Eng. Law)

Defn: The criminal branch of the Court of King's or Queen's Bench,
commonly called the crown side of the court, which takes cognizance
of all criminal cases. Burrill.

CROWNPIECE
Crown"piece` (-ps`), n.
(a) A piece or part which passes over the head, as in a bridle.
(b) A coin [In sense (b) properly crown piece.] See Crown, 19.

CROWN-POST
Crown"-post` (kroun"pst`), n.

Defn: Same as King-post.

CROWN-SAW
Crown"-saw` (-s`), n. Etym: [From its supposed resemblance to a
crown.] (Mech.)

Defn: A saw in the form of a hollow cylinder, with teeth on the end
or edge, and operated by a rotative motion.

Note: The trephine was the first of the class of crownsaws. Knight.

CROWN SIDE
Crown" side` (sd`).

Defn: See Crown office.

CROWN WHEEL
Crown" wheel` (hwl`). Etym: [Named from its resemblance to a crown.]
(Mach.)

Defn: A wheel with cogs or teeth set at right angles to its plane; --
called also a contrate wheel or face wheel.

CROWNWORK
Crown"work` (-wrk`), n. (Fort.)

Defn: A work consisting of two or more bastioned fronts, with their
outworks, covering an enceinte, a bridgehead, etc., and connected by
wings with the main work or the river bank.

CROW-QUILL
Crow"-quill` (kr"kwl`), n.

Defn: A quill of the crow, or a very fine pen made from such a quill.

CROWS
Crows (krz), n. pl.; sing. Crow. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians of the Dakota stock, living in Montana; --
also called Upsarokas.

CROW'S-FOOT
Crow's"-foot` (krz"ft`), n.; pl. Crow's-feet (-f.

1. pl.

Defn: The wrinkles that appear, as the effect of age or dissipation,
under and around the outer corners of the eyes. Tennyson.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A caltrop. [Written also crowfoot.]

3. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Bird's-mouth. [U.S.]

CROW-SILK
Crow"-silk` (kr"slk`), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A filamentous fresh-water alga (Conferva rivularis of Linnaeus,
Rhizoclonium rivulare of Kutzing).

CROW'S-NEST
Crow's-nest` (krz"nst`), n. (Naut.)

Defn: A box or perch near the top of a mast, esp. in whalers, to
shelter the man on the lookout.

CROWSTEP
Crow"step` (kr"stp`), n. (Arch.)

Defn: See Corriestep.

CROWSTONE
Crow"stone` (kr"stn`), n. (Arch.)

Defn: The top stone of the gable end of a house. Halliwell.

CROWTH
Crowth (krouth), n.

Defn: An ancient musical instrument. See 4th Crowd.

CROWTOE
Crow"toe` (kr"t`), n. (Bot.)

1. The Lotus corniculatus. Dr. Prior.

2. An unidentified plant, probably the crowfoot. "The tufted
crowtoe." Milton.

CROW-TRODDEN
Crow"-trod`den (kr"trd`d'n), a.

Defn: Marked with crow's-feet, or wrinkles, about the eyes. [Poetic]
Do I look as if I were crow-trodden Beau. & FL.

CROYDON
Croy"don, n. [From Croydon, England.]

1.

Defn: A kind of carriage like a gig, orig. of wicker-work.

2.  A kind of cotton sheeting; also, a calico.

CROYLSTONE
Croyl"stone` (kroil"stn`), n. (Min.)

Defn: Crystallized cawk, in which the crystals are small.

CROYS
Croys (krois), n.

Defn: See Cross, n. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CROZE
Croze (krz), n. Etym: [Cf. Cross, and Crosier.]

Defn: A cooper's tool for making the grooves for the heads of casks,
etc.; also, the groove itself.

CROZIER
Cro"zier (kr"zhr), n.

Defn: See Crosier.

CROZIERED
Cro"ziered (-zhrd), a.

Defn: Crosiered.

CRUCIAL
Cru"cial (kr"shal), a. Etym: [F. crucial, fr. L. crux, crucis, cross,
torture. See Cross.]

1. Having the form of a cross; appertaining to a cross; cruciform;
intersecting; as, crucial ligaments; a crucial incision.

2. Severe; trying or searching, as if bringing to the cross;
decisive; as, a crucial test.

CRUCIAN CARP
Cru"cian carp` (-shan krp`). Etym: [Cf. Sw. karussa, G. karausche, F.
carousse, -assin, corassin, LL. coracinus, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of European carp (Carasius vulgaris), inferior to the
common carp; -- called also German carp.

Note: The gibel or Prussian carp is now generally considered a
variety of the crucian carp, or perhaps a hybrid between it and the
common carp.

CRUCIATE
Cru"ci*ate (kr"sh-t or -sht; 106), a. Etym: [L. cruciatus, p. p. of
cruciare to crucify, torture, fr. crux, crucis, a cross. See Cross.]

1. Tormented. [Obs.] Bale.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the leaves or petals arranged in the form of a cross;
cruciform.

CRUCIATE
Cru"ci*ate (kr"sh-t), v. t.

Defn: To torture; to torment. [Obs.] See Excruciate. Bale.

CRUCIATION
Cru`ci*a"tion (kr`sh-"shn), n. Etym: [LL. cruciatio.]

Defn: The act of torturing; torture; torment. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

CRUCIBLE
Cru"ci*ble (kr"s-b'l), n. Etym: [LL. crucubulum a hanging lamp, an
earthen pot for melting metals (cf. OF. croisel, creuseul, sort of
lamp, crucible, F. creuset crucible), prob. of German origin; cf.
OHG. kr, LG. kr, hanging lamp, kroos, kruus, mug, jug, jar, D. kroes
cup, crucible, Dan. kruus, Sw. krus, E. cruse. It was confused with
derivatives of L. crux cross (cf. Crosslet), and crucibles were said
to have been marked with a cross, to prevent the devil from marring
the chemical operation. See Cruse, and cf. Cresset.]

1. A vessel or melting pot, composed of some very refractory
substance, as clay, graphite, platinum, and used for melting and
calcining substances which require a strong degree of heat, as
metals, ores, etc.

2. A hollow place at the bottom of a furnace, to receive the melted
metal.

3. A test of the most decisive kind; a severe trial; as, the crucible
of affliction. Hessian crucible (Chem.), a cheap, brittle, and
fragile, but very refractory crucible, composed of the finest fire
clay and sand, and commonly used for a single heating; -- named from
the place of manufacture.

CRUCIBLE STEEL
Cru"ci*ble steel.

Defn: Cast steel made by fusing in crucibles crude or scrap steel,
wrought iron, and other ingredients and fluxes.

CRUCIFER
Cru"ci*fer (-fr), n. Etym: [See Cruciferous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the order Cruciferæ.

CRUCIFEROUS
Cru*cif"er*ous (kr-sf"r-s), a. Etym: [L. crux, crucis, cross + -
ferous: cf. F. crucif.]

1. Bearing a cross.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants which have
four petals arranged like the arms of a cross, as the mustard,
radish, turnip, etc.

CRUCIFIER
Cru"ci*fi`er (kr"s-f`r), n.

Defn: One who crucifies; one who subjects himself or another to a
painful trial.

CRUCIFIX
Cru"ci*fix (kr"s-fks), n.; pl. Crucifixes (-. Etym: [F. crucifix or
LL. crucifixum, fr. L. crux, crucis, cross + figere, fixum, to fix.
See Cross, and Fix, and cf. Crucify.]

1. A representation in art of the figure of Christ upon the cross;
esp., the sculptured figure affixed to a real cross of wood, ivory,
metal, or the like, used by the Roman Catholics in their devotions.
The cross, too, by degrees, become the crucifix. Milman.
And kissing oft her crucifix, Unto the block she drew. Warner.

2. The cross or religion of Christ. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

CRUCIFIXION
Cru`ci*fix"ion (kr`s-fk"shn), n.

1. The act of nailing or fastening a person to a cross, for the
purpose of putting him to death; the use of the cross as a method of
capital punishment.

2. The state of one who is nailed or fastened to a cross; death upon
a cross.

3. Intense suffering or affliction; painful trial.
Do ye prove What crucifixions are in love Herrick.

CRUCIFORM
Cru"ci*form (kr"s-frm), a. Etym: [L. crux, crucis, cress + -form: cf.
F. cruciforme.]

Defn: Cross-shaped; (Bot.) having four parts arranged in the form of
a cross.

CRUCIFY
Cru"ci*fy (-f), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crucified (-fd); p. pr. & vb.n.
Crucifying.] Etym: [F. crucifier, fr. (assumed) LL. crucificare, for
crucifigere, fr, L. crux, crucis, cross + figere to fix, the ending -
figere being changed to -ficare, F. -fier (in compounds), as if fr.
L. facere to do, make. See Cross, and Fix, and cf. Crucifix.]

1. To fasten to a cross; to put to death by nailing the hands and
feet to a cross or gibbet.
They cried, saying, Crucify him, cricify him. Luke xxiii. 21.

2. To destroy the power or ruling influence of; to subdue completely;
to mortify.
They that are Christ's have crucified the flesh, with the affections
and lusts. Gal. v. 24.

3. To vex or torment. Beau. & FL.

CRUCIGEROUS
Cru*cig"er*ous (kr-sj"r-s), a. Etym: [L. crux, cricis, cross + -
gerous.]

Defn: Bearing the cross; marked with the figure of a cross. Sir. T.
Browne.

CRUD
Crud (krd), n.

Defn: See Curd. [Obs.]

CRUDDLE
Crud"dle (-d'l), v. i.

Defn: To curdle. [Obs.]
See how thy blood cruddles at this. Bea

CRUDE
Crude (krd), a. [Compar. Cruder (-r); superl. Crudest.] Etym: [L.
crudus raw; akin to cruor blood (which flows from a wound). See Raw,
and cf. Cruel.]

1. In its natural state; not cooked or prepared by fire or heat;
undressed; not altered, refined, or prepared for use by any
artificial process; raw; as, crude flesh. "Common crude salt." Boyle.
Molding to its will each successive deposit of the crude materials.
I. Taylor.

2. Unripe; not mature or perfect; immature.
I come to pluck your berries harsh and crude. Milton.

3. Not reduced to order or form;unfinished; not arranged or prepared;
ill-considered; immature. "Crudeprojects." Macualay.
Crude, undigested masses of suggestion, furnishing rather raw
materials for composition. De Quincey.
The originals of Nature in their crude Conception. Milton.

4. Undigested; unconcocted; not brought into a form to give
nourishment. "Crude and inconcoct." Bacon.

5. Having, or displaying, superficial and undigested knowledge;
without culture or profudity; as, a crude reasoner.

6. (Paint.)

Defn: Harsh and offensive, as a color; tawdry or in bad taste, as a
combination of colors, or any design or work of art.

CRUDELY
Crude"ly, adv.

Defn: In a crude, immature manner.

CRUDENESS
Crude"ness, n.

Defn: A crude, undigested, or unprepared state; rawness; unripeness;
immatureness; unfitness for a destined use or purpose; as, the
crudeness of iron ore; crudeness of theories or plans.

CRUDITY
Cru"di*ty (kr"d-t), n.; pl. Crudities (-t. Etym: [L. cruditas, fr.
crudus: cf. F. crudit. See Crude.]

1. The condition of being crude; rawness.

2. That which is in a crude or undigested state; hence, superficial,
undigested views, not reduced to order or form. "Cridities in the
stomach." Arbuthnot.

CRUDLE
Cru"dle (-d'l), v. i.

Defn: See Cruddle.

CRUDY
Crud"y (krd"), a. Etym: [From Crud.]

Defn: Coagulated. [Obs.]
His cruel wounds with crudy blood congealed. Spenser.

CRUDY
Cru"dy (kr"d), a. Etym: [From Crude.]

Defn: Characterized by crudeness; raw. [Obs.]
The foolish and dull and crudy vapors. Shak.

CRUEL
Cru"el (kr"l), n.

Defn: See Crewel.

CRUEL
Cru"el (kr*"l), a. Etym: [F. cruel, fr. L. crudelis, fr. crudus. See
Crude.]

1. Disposed to give pain to others; willing or pleased to hurt,
torment, or afflict; destitute of sympathetic kindness and pity;
savage; inhuman; hard-hearted; merciless.
Behold a people cometh from the north country; . . . they are cruel
and have no mercy. Jer. vi. 22,23.

2. Causing, or fitted to cause, pain, grief, or misery.
Cruel wars, wasting the earth. Milton.
Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath for it was
cruel. Gen. xlix. 7.

3. Attended with cruetly; painful; harsh.
You have seen cruel proof of this man's strength. Shak.

CRUELLY
Cru"el*ly, adv.

1. In a cruel manner.

2. Extremly; very. [Colloq.] Spectator.

CRUELNESS
Cru"el*ness, n.

Defn: Cruelty. [Obs.] Spenser.

CRUELS
Cru"els (kr"lz), n. pl. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. F. scrofula.]

Defn: Glandular scrofulous swellings in the neck.

CRUELTY
Cru"el*ty (-t), n.; pl. Cruelties (-t. Etym: [OF. cruelt, F. cruaut,
fr. L. crudelitas, fr. crudelis. See Cruel.]

1. The attribute or quality of being cruel; a disposition to give
unnecessary pain or suffering to others; inhumanity; barbarity.
Pierced through the heart with your stern cruelty. Shak.

2. A cruel and barbarous deed; inhuman treatment; the act of
willfully causing unnecessary pain.
Cruelties worthy of the dungeons of the Inquisition.
Macualay.

CRUENTATE
Cru"en*tate (kr"n-tt), a. Etym: [L. cruentatus, p. p. of cruentare to
make bloody, fr. cruentus bloody, fr. cruor. See Crude.]

Defn: Smeared with blood. [Obs.] Glanwill.

CRUENTOUS
Cru*en"tous (kr-n"ts), a. Etym: [L. cruentus.]

Defn: Bloody; cruentate. [Obs.]

CRUET
Cru"et, n. Etym: [Anglo-French cruet, a dim. from OF. crue, cruie; of
German or Celtic origin, and akin to E. crock an earthen vessel.]

1. A bottle or vessel; esp., aviai or small glass bottle for holding
vinegar, oil, pepper, or the like, for the table; a caster. Swift.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A vessel used to hold wine, oil, or water for the service of
the altar. Cruet stand, a frame for holding cruets; a caster.

CRUISE
Cruise (krs), n.

Defn: See Cruse, a small bottle.

CRUISE
Cruise (krz), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cruised (krzd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cruising.] Etym: [D. kruisen to move crosswise or in a zigzag, to
cruise, fr. kruis cross, fr. OF. crois, croiz, F. croix, or directly
fr. OF. croisier, F. croiser, to cross, cruise, fr. crois a cross.
See Cross.]

1. To sail back and forth on the ocean; to sail, as for the potection
of commerce, in search of an enemy, for plunder, or for pleasure.

Note: A ship cruises in any particular sea or ocean; as, in the
Baltic or in the Atlantic. She cruises off any cape; as, off the
Lizard; off Ushant. She cruises on a coast; as, on the coast of
Africa. A priate cruises to seize vessels; a yacht cruises for the
pleasure of the owner.
Ships of war were aent to cruise near the isle of Bute. Macualay.
'Mid sands, and rocks, and storms to cruise for pleasure. Young.

2. To wander hither and thither on land. [Colloq.]

CRUISE
Cruise, n.

Defn: A voyage made in various directions, as of an armed vessel, for
the protection of other vessels, or in search of an enemy; a sailing
to and fro, as for exploration or for pleasure.
He feigned a compliance with some of his men, who were bent upon
going a cruise to Manilla. Dampier.

CRUISER
Cruis"er (kr"zr), n.

Defn: One who, or a vessel that, cruises; -- usually an armed vessel.

CRUIVE
Cruive (krv), n.

Defn: A kind of weir or dam for trapping salmon; also, a hovel.
[Scot.]

CRULL
Crull (krl), a. Etym: [SeeCurl.]

Defn: Curly; curled. [Obs.]

CRULLER
Crul"ler (krl"lr), n. Etym: [Cf. Curl.]

Defn: A kind of sweet cake cut in strips and curled or twisted, and
fried crisp in boiling fat. [Also written kruller.]

CRUMB
Crumb (krm), n. Etym: [AS. cruma, akin to D. kruim, G. krume; cf. G.
krauen to scratch, claw.] [Written also crum.]

1. A small fragment or piece; especially, a small piece of bread or
other food, broken or cut off.
Desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's
table. Luke xvi. 21.

2. Fig.: A little; a bit; as, a crumb of comfort.

3. The soft part of bread.
Dust unto dust, what must be, must; If you can't get crumb, you'd
best eat crust. Old Song.
Crumb brush, a brush for sweeping crumbs from a table.
 -- To a crum, with great exactness; completely.

CRUMB
Crumb, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crumbed (krmd); p. pr. & vb.n. Crumbing
(krm"ng).]

Defn: To break into crumbs or small pieces with the fingers; as, to
crumb bread. [Written also crum.]

CRUMBCLOTH
Crumb"cloth` (-kl, n.

Defn: A cloth to be laid under a dining table to receive falling
fragments, and keep the carpet or floor clean. [Written also
crumcloth.]

CRUMBLE
Crum"ble (krm"b'l), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crumbled (-b'ld); p. pr. &
vb. n. Crumbling (-blng).] Etym: [Dim. of crumb, v. t., akin to D.
krimelen G. kr.]

Defn: To break into small pieces; to cause to fall in pieces.
He with his bare wand can unthread thy joints, And crumble all thy
sinews. Milton.

CRUMBLE
Crum"ble, v. i.

Defn: To fall into small pieces; to break or part into small
fragments; hence, to fall to decay or ruin; to become disintegrated;
to perish.
If the stone is brittle, it will crumble and pass into the form of
gravel. Arbuthnot.
The league deprived of its principal supports must soon crumble to
pieces. Prescott.

CRUMBLY
Crum"bly (-bl), a.

Defn: EAsily crumbled; friable; brittle. "The crumbly soil."
Hawthorne.

CRUMENAL
Cru"me*nal (kr"m-nal), n. Etym: [L. crumena purse.]

Defn: A purse. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

CRUMMABLE
Crum"ma*ble (krm"mA-b'l), a.

Defn: Capable of being crumbed or broken into small pieces.

CRUMMY
Crum"my (krm"m), a.

1. Full of crumb or crumbs.

2. Soft, as the crumb of bread is; not crusty.

CRUMP
Crump (krmp), a. Etym: [AS. crumb stooping, bent down; akin to OHG.
chrumb, G. krumm, Dan. krum, D. krom, and E. cramp.]

1. Crooked; bent. [Obs.]
Crooked backs and crump shoulders. Jer. Taylor.

2. Hard or crusty; dry baked; as, a crump loaf. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
Hallivell.

CRUMPET
Crump"et (krmp"t), n. Etym: [Prob. from W. crempog, crammwgth, a
pancake or fritter.]

Defn: A kind of large. thin muffin or cake, light and spongy, and
cooked on a griddle or spider.

CRUMPLE
Crum"ple (krm"p'l), v. t. [imp & p. p. Crumpled (-p'ld); p. pr. & vb.
n. Crumpling (-plng).] Etym: [Dim. fr. crump, a.]

Defn: To draw or press into wrinkles or folds to crush together; to
rumple; as, to crumple paper.
They crumpled it into all shapes, and diligently scanned every
wrinkle that could be made. Addison.

CRUMPLE
Crum"ple, v. i.

Defn: To contract irregularly; to show wrinkless after being crushed
together; as, leaves crumple.

CRUMPY
Crump"y (krmp"Y), a.

Defn: Brittle; crisp. Wright.

CRUNCH
Crunch (krnch), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Crunched (krncht); p. pr. & vb.
n. Crunching.] Etym: [Prob. of imitative origin; or cf. D. schransen
to eat heartily, or E. scrunch.]

1. To chew with force and noise; to craunch.
And their white tusks crunched o'er the whiter skull. Byron.

2. To grind or press with violence and noise.
The ship crunched through the ice. Kane.

3. To emit a grinding or craunching noise.
The crunching and ratting of the loose stones. H. James.

CRUNCH
Crunch, v. t.

Defn: To crush with the teeth; to chew with a grinding noise; to
craunch; as, to crunch a biscuit.

CRUNK; CRUNKLE
Crunk (krnk), Crun"kle (krn"k'l), v. i. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kr to
croak.]

Defn: To cry like a crane. [Obs.] "The crane crunketh." Withals
(1608).

CRUNODAL
Cru*no"dal (kr-n"dal), a. (Geom.)

Defn: Possessing, or characterized by, a crunode; -- used of curves.

CRUNODE
Cru"node (kr"nd), n. Etym: [Prob. fr. L. crux a cross + E. node.]
(Geom.)

Defn: A point where one branch of a curve crosses another branch. See
Double point, under Double, a.

CRUOR
Cru"or (kr"r), n. Etym: [L., blood. See Crude.]

Defn: The coloring matter of the blood; the clotted portion of
coagulated blood, containing the coloring matter; gore.

CRUORIN
Cru"o*rin (--rn), n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The coloring matter of the blood in the living animal;
hæmoglobin.

CRUP
Crup (krp), a. Etym: [Cf. OHG. grop, G. grob, coarse.]

Defn: Short; brittle; as, crup cake. Todd.

CRUP
Crup (krp), n.

Defn: See Croup, the rump of a horse.

CRUPPER
Crup"per (krp"pr in U.S.; krp"r in Eng.), n. Etym: [F. croupi, fr.
croupe. See Croup the rump of a horse.] [Written also crouper.]

1. The buttocks or rump of a horse.

2. A leather loop, passing under a horse's tail, and buckled to the
saddle to keep it from slipping forwards.

CRUPPER
Crup"per, v. t.

Defn: To fit with a crupper; to place a crupper upon; as, to crupper
a horse.

CRURA
Cru"ra (kr"r), n. pl. (Anat.)

Defn: See Crus.

CRURAL
Cru"ral (-ral), a. Etym: [L. cruralis, fr. crus, cruris, leg: cf. F.
crural.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the thigh or leg, or to any of the parts
called crura; as, the crural arteries; crural arch; crural canal;
crural ring.

CRUS
Crus (krs), n.; pl. Crura (kr. Etym: [L., the leg.] (Anat.)
(a) That part of the hind limb between the femur, or thigh, and the
ankle, or tarsus; the shank.
(b) Often applied, especially in the plural, to parts which are
supposed to resemble a pair of legs; as, the crura of the diaphragm,
a pair of muscles attached to it; crura cerebri, two bundles of nerve
fibers in the base of the brain, connecting the medulla and the
forebrain.

CRUSADE
Cru*sade" (kr-sd"), n. Etym: [F. croisade, fr. Pr. crozada, or Sp
cruzada, or It. crociata, from a verb signifying to take the cross,
mark one's self with a cross, fr. L. crux cross; or possibly taken
into English directly fr. Pr. Cf. Croisade, Crosado, and see Cross.]

1. Any one of the military expeditions undertaken by Christian
powers, in the 11th, 12th, and 13th centuries, for the recovery of
the Holy Land from the Mohammedans.

2. Any enterprise undertaken with zeal and enthusiasm; as, a crusade
against intemperance.

3. A Portuguese coin. See Crusado.

CRUSADE
Cru*sade", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Crusaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Crusading.]

Defn: To engage in a crusade; to attack in a zealous or hot-headed
manner. "Cease crusading against sense." M. Green.

CRUSADER
Cru*sad"er (-s"dr), n.

Defn: One engaged in a crusade; as, the crusaders of the Middle Ages.
Azure-eyed and golden-haired, Forth the young crusaders fared.
Longfellow.

CRUSADING
Cru*sad"ing, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a crusade; as, a crusading spirit.

CRUSADO
Cru*sa"do (-s"d), n. Etym: [Pg. cruzado, fr. cruz, fr. L. crux. See
Crusade, 3.]

Defn: An old Portuguese coin, worth about seventy cents. [Written
also cruade.] Shak.

CRUSE
Cruse (krs), n. Etym: [Akin to LG. kruus, kroos, mug, jug, jar, D.
kroes, G. krause, Icel. krus, Sw. krus, Dan. kruus. Cf. Crucible,
Cresset.]

1. A cup or dish.
Take with thee . . . a cruse of honey. 1 Kings xiv. 3.

2. A bottle for holding water, oil, honey, etc.
So David took . . . the cruse of water. 1 Sam. xxvi. 12.

CRUSET
Cru"set (kr"st), n. Etym: [Cf. F. creuset. See Cruse, Crucible.]

Defn: A goldsmith's crucible or melting pot.

CRUSH
Crush (krsh), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crushed (krsht); p. pr. & vb. n.
Crushing.] Etym: [OE. cruschen, crousshen, Of. cruisir, croissir, fr.
LL. cruscire, prob. of Ger. origin, from a derivative of the word
seen in Goth. kruistan to gnash; akin to Sw. krysta to squeeze, Dan.
kryste, Icel. kreysta.]

1. To press or bruise between two hard bodies; to squeeze, so as to
destroy the natural shape or integrity of the parts, or to force
together into a mass; as, to crush grapes.
Ye shall not offer unto the Lord that which is bruised, or crushed,
or broken, or cut. Lev. xxii. 24.
The ass . . . thrust herself unto the wall, and crushed Balaam's foot
against the wall. Num. xxii. 25.

2. To reduce to fine particles by pounding or grinding; to comminute;
as, to crush quartz.

3. To overwhelm by pressure or weight; to beat or force down, as by
an incumbent weight.
To crush the pillars which the pile sustain. Dryden.
Truth, crushed to earth, shall rise again. Bryant.

4. To oppress or burden grievously.
Thou shalt be only oppressed and crushed alway. Deut. xxviii. 33.

5. To overcome completely; to subdue totally.
Speedily overtaking and crushing the rebels. Sir. W. Scott.
To crush a cup, to drink. [Obs.] -- To crush out. (a) To force out or
separate by pressure, as juice from grapes. (b) To overcome or
destroy completely; to suppress.

CRUSH
Crush (krsh), v. i.

Defn: To be or become broken down or in, or pressed into a smaller
compass, by external weight or force; as, an eggshell crushes easily.

CRUSH
Crush, n.

1. A violent collision or compression; a crash; destruction; ruin.
The wreck of matter, and the crush of worlds. Addison.

2. Violent pressure, as of a crowd; a crowd which produced
uncomfortable pressure; as, a crush at a peception. Crush hat, a hat
which collapses, and can be carried under the arm, and when expanded
is held in shape by springs; hence, any hat not injured by
compressing.
 -- Crush room, a large room in a theater, opera house, etc., where
the audience may promenade or converse during the intermissions; a
foyer.
Politics leave very little time for the bow window at White's in the
day, or for the crush room of the opera at night. Macualay.

CRUSHER
Crush"er (-r), n.

Defn: One who, or that which, crushes. Crusher gauge, an instrument
for measuring the explosive force of gunpowder, etc., by its effect
in compressing a piece of metal.

CRUSHING
Crush"ing, a.

Defn: That crushes; overwhelming. "The blow must be quick and
crushing." Macualay.

CRUST
Crust (krst), n. Etym: [L. crusta: cf. OF. crouste, F. cro; prob.
akin to Gr. crystal, from the same root as E. crude, raw. See Raw,
and cf. Custard.]

1. The hard external coat or covering of anything; the hard exterior
surface or outer shell; an incrustation; as, a crust of snow.
I have known the statute of an emperor quite hid under a crust of
dross. Addison.
Below this icy crust of conformity, the waters of infidelity lay dark
and deep as ever. Prescott.

2. (Cookery)
(a) The hard exterior or surface of bread, in distinction from the
soft part or crumb; or a piece of bread grown dry or hard.
(b) The cover or case of a pie, in distinction from the soft
contents.
(c) The dough, or mass of doughy paste, cooked with a potpie; -- also
called dumpling.
Th' impenetrable crust thy teeth defies. Dryden.
He that keeps nor crust nor crumb. Shak.
They . . . made the crust for the venison pasty. Macualay.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: The exterior portion of the earth, formerly universally
supposed to inclose a molten interior.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The shell of crabs, lobsters, etc.

5. (Med.)

Defn: A hard mass, made up of dried secretions blood, or pus,
occurring upon the surface of the body.

6. An incrustation on the interior of wine bottles, the result of the
ripening of the wine; a deposit of tartar, etc. See Beeswing.

CRUST
Crust, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Crusted; p. pr. & vb. n. Crusting.] Etym:
[Cf. OF. crouster, L. crustare. See Crust, n. ]

Defn: To cover with a crust; to cover or line with an incrustation;
to incrust.
The whole body is crusted over with ice. Boyle.
And now their legs, and breast, and bodies stood Crusted with bark.
Addison.
Very foul and crusted bottles. Swift.
Their minds are crusted over, like diamonds in the rock. Felton.

CRUST
Crust, v. i.

Defn: To gather or contract into a hard crust; to become incrusted.
The place that was burnt . . . crusted and healed. Temple.

CRUSTA
Crus"ta (krs"t), n. Etym: [L., shell, crust, inlaid work.]

1. A crust or shell.

2. A gem engraved, or a plate embossed in low relief, for inlaying a
vase or other object.

CRUSTACEA
Crus*ta"ce*a (krs-t"sh-), n. pl. Etym: [Neut. pl. of NL. crustaceus
pert. to the crust or shell, from L. crusta the hard surfsce of a
body, rind, shell.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the classes of the arthropods, including lobsters and
crabs; -- so called from the crustlike shell with which they are
covered.

Note: The body usually consists of an anterior part, made up of the
head and thorax combined, called the cephalothorax, and of a
posterior jointed part called the abdomen, postabdomen, and
(improperly) tail. They breathe by means of gills variously attached
to some of the limbs or to the sides the body, according to the
group. They are divisible into two subclasses, Entomostraca and
Malacostraca, each of which includes several orders.

CRUSTACEAN
Crus*ta"cean (krs-t"shan; 97), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Crustacea; crustaceous.
 -- n.

Defn: An animal belonging to the class Crustacea.

CRUSTACEOLOGICAL
Crus*ta`ce*o*log"ic*al (-sh--lj"-kal), a.

Defn: Pertaining to crustaceology.

CRUSTACEOLOGIST
Crus*ta`ce*ol"o*gist (-ll"-jst), n.

Defn: One versed in crustaceology; a crustalogist.

CRUSTACEOLOGY
Crus*ta`ce*ol"o*gy (-j), n. Etym: [Crustacea + -logy.]

Defn: That branch of Zoölogy which treats of the Crustacea;
malacostracology; carcinology.

CRUSTACEOUS
Crus*ta"ceous (krs-t"shs; 97), a. Etym: [NL. crustaceous. See
crustacea.]

1. Pertaining to, or of the nature of, crust or shell; having a
crustlike shell.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Crustacea; crustacean.

CRUSTACEOUSNESS
Crus*ta"ceous*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being crustaceous or having a crustlike
shell.

CRUSTAL
Crust"al (krst"al), a.

Defn: Relating to a crust.

CRUSTALOGICAL
Crus`ta*log"ic*al (krs`t-lj"-kal), a.

Defn: Pertaining to crustalogy.

CRUSTALOGIST
Crus*tal"o*gist (-t, n.

Defn: One versed in crustalogy.

CRUSTALOGY
Crus*tal"o*gy (krs-tl"-j), n. Etym: [L. crusta shell + -logy.]

Defn: Crustaceology.

CRUSTATED
Crus"ta*ted (krs"t-td), a. Etym: [L. crustatus, p. p. of crustare,
fr. crusta. See Crust.]

Defn: Covered with a crust; as, crustated basalt.

CRUSTATION
Crus*ta"tion (krs-t"shn), n.

Defn: An adherent crust; an incrustation. Pepys.

CRUSTED
Crust"ed (krst"d), a.

Defn: Incrusted; covered with, or containing, crust; as, old, crusted
port wine.

CRUSTIFIC
Crus*tif`ic (krs-tf"k), a. Etym: [L. crusta crust + -facere to make.]

Defn: Producing or forming a crust or skin. [R.]

CRUSTILY
Crust"i*ly (krst"-l*), adv.

Defn: In a crusty or surly manner; morosely.

CRUSTINESS
Crust"i*ness (--ns), n.

1. The state or quality of having crust or being like crust;
hardness.

2. The quality of being crusty or surly.
Old Christy forgot his usual crustiness. W. Irving.

CRUSTY
Crust"y (-), a.

1. Having the nature of crust; pertaining to a hard covering; as, a
crusty coat; a crusty surface or substance.

2. Etym: [Possibly a corruption of cursty. Cf. Curst, Curstness.]

Defn: Having a hard exterior, or a short, rough manner, though kind
at heart; snappish; peevish; surly.
Thou crusty batch of nature, what's the news Shak.

CRUT
Crut (krt), n. Etym: [Cf. F. cro crust.]

Defn: The rough, shaggy part of oak bark.

CRUTCH
Crutch (krch; 224), n.; pl. Crutches (-. Etym: [OE. cruche, AS.
crycc, cricc; akin to D. kruk, G. kr, Dan. krykke, Sw. krycka, and to
E. crook. See Crook, and cf. Cricket a low stool.]

1. A staff with a crosspiece at the head, to be placed under the arm
or shoulder, to support the lame or infirm in walking.
I'll lean upon one crutch, and fight with the other. Shak.
Rhyme is a crutch that lifts the weak alone. H. Smith.

2. A form of pommel for a woman's saddle, consisting of a forked rest
to hold the leg of the rider.

3. (Naut.)
(a) A knee, or piece of knee timber.
(b) A forked stanchion or post; a crotch. See Crotch.

CRUTCH
Crutch, v. t.

Defn: To support on crutches; to prop up. [R.]
Two fools that crutch their feeble sense on verse. Dryden.

CRUTCHED
Crutched (krcht), a.

1. Supported upon crutches.

2. Etym: [See Crouch, v. t., and Crouched, a. ]

Defn: Marked with the sign of the cross; crouched. Crutched friar
(Eccl.), one of a religious order, so called because its members bore
the sign of the cross on their staves and habits; -- called also
crossed friar and crouched friar.

CRUTH
Cruth (krth), n. Etym: [W. crwth.] (Mus.)

Defn: See 4th Crowd.

CRUX
Crux (krks), n.; pl. E. Cruxes (-, L. Cruces (kr. Etym: [L., cross,
torture, trouble.]

Defn: Anything that is very puzzling or difficult to explain. Dr.
Sheridan.
The perpetual crux of New Testament chronologists. Strauss.

CRUX ANSATA
Crux an*sa"ta. [L., cross with a handle.]

Defn: A cross in the shape of the ankh.

CRUZADO
Cru*za"do (kr-z"d), n.

Defn: A coin. See Crusado.

CRWTH
Crwth (krth), n. Etym: [W.] (Mus)

Defn: See 4th Crowd.

CRY
Cry (kr), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cried (krd); p. pr. & vb. n. Crying.]
Etym: [F. crier, cf. L. quiritare to raise a plaintive cry, scream,
shriek, perh. fr. queri to complain; cf. Skr. cvas to pant, hiss,
sigh. Cf. Quarrel a brawl, Querulous.]

1. To make a loud call or cry; to call or exclaim vehemently or
earnestly; to shout; to vociferate; to proclaim; to pray; to implore.
And about the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice. Matt. xxvii.
46.
Clapping their hands, and crying with loud voice. Shak.
Hear the voice of my supplications when I cry unto thee. Ps. xxviii.
2.
The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of
the Lord. Is. xl. 3.
Some cried after him to return. Bunyan.

2. To utter lamentations; to lament audibly; to express pain, grief,
or distress, by weeping and sobbing; to shed tears; to bawl, as a
child.
Ye shall cry for sorrow of heart. Is. lxv. 14.
I could find it in my heart to disgrace my man's apparel and to cry
like a woman. Shak.

3. To utter inarticulate sounds, as animals.
The young ravens which cry. Ps. cxlvii. 9.
In a cowslip's bell I lie There I couch when owls do cry. Shak.
To cry on or upon, to call upon the name of; to beseech."No longer on
Saint Denis will we cry." Shak.
 -- To cry out. (a) To exclaim; to vociferate; to scream; to clamor.
(b) To complain loudly; to lament.
 -- To cry out against, to complain loudly of; to censure; to blame.
 -- To cry out on or upon, to denounce; to censure. "Cries out upon
abuses." Shak.
 -- To cry to, to call on in prayer; to implore.
 -- To cry you mercy, to beg your pardon. "I cry you mercy, madam;
was it you" Shak.

CRY
Cry, v. t.

1. To utter loudly; to call out; to shout; to sound abroad; to
declare publicly.
All, all, cry shame against ye, yet I 'll speak. Shak.
The man . . . ran on,crying, Life! life! Eternal life! Bunyan.

2. To cause to do something, or bring to some state, by crying or
weeping; as, to cry one's self to sleep.

3. To make oral and public proclamation of; to declare publicly; to
notify or advertise by outcry, especially things lost or found, goods
to be sold, ets.; as, to cry goods, etc.
Love is lost, and thus she cries him. Crashaw.

4. Hence, to publish the banns of, as for marriage.
I should not be surprised if they were cried in church next Sabbath.
Judd.
To cry aim. See under Aim.
 -- To cry down, to decry; to depreciate; to dispraise; to condemn.
Men of dissolute lives cry down religion, because they would not be
under the restraints of it. Tillotson.
-- To cry out, to proclaim; to shout."Your gesture cries it out."
Shak.
 -- To cry quits, to propose, or declare, the abandonment of a
contest.
 -- To cry up, to enhance the value or reputation of by public and
noisy praise; to extol; to laud publicly or urgently.

CRY
Cry (kr), n.; pl. Cries (kr. Etym: [F. cri, fr. crier to cry. See
Cry, v. i. ]

1. A loud utterance; especially, the inarticulate sound produced by
one of the lower animals; as, the cry of hounds; the cry of wolves.
Milton.

2. Outcry; clamor; tumult; popular demand.
Again that cry was found to have been as unreasonable as ever.
Macaulay.

3. Any expression of grief, distress, etc., accompanied with tears or
sobs; a loud sound, uttered in lamentation.
There shall be a great cry throughout all the land. Ex. xi. 6.
An infant crying in the night, An infant crying for the light; And
with no language but a cry. Tennyson.

4. Loud expression of triumph or wonder or of popular acclamation or
favor. Swift.
The cry went once on thee. Shak.

5. Importunate supplication.
O, the most piteous cry of the poor souls. Shak.

6. Public advertisement by outcry; proclamation, as by hawkers of
their wares.
The street cries of London. Mayhew.

7. Common report; fame.
The cry goes that you shall marry her. Shak.

8. A word or phrase caught up by a party or faction and repeated for
effect; as, the party cry of the Tories.
All now depends upon a good cry. Beaconsfield.

9. A pack of hounds. Milton.
A cry more tunable Was never hollaed to, nor cheered with horn. Shak.

10. A pack or company of persons; -- in contempt.
Would not this . . . get me a fellowship in a cry of players Shak.

11. The cracklling noise made by block tin when it is bent back and
forth. A far cry, a long distance; -- in allusion to the sending of
criers or messengers through the territory of a Scottish clan with an
announcement or summons.

CRYAL
Cry"al (kr"al), n. Etym: [Cf. W. creyr, cryr, crychydd. Cf. Cruer a
hawk.]

Defn: The heron [Obs.] Ainsworth.

CRYER
Cry"er (-r), n. Etym: [F. faucon gruyer a falcon trained to fly at
the crane, fr. crye crane, fr. L. crus crane. Cf. Cryal.]

Defn: The female of the hawk; a falcon-gentil.

CRYING
Cry"ing, a.

Defn: Calling for notice; compelling attention; notorious; heinous;
as, a crying evil.
Too much fondness for meditative retirement is not the crying sin of
our modern Christianity. I. Taylor.

CRYOHYDRATE
Cry`o*hy"drate (kr`-h"drt), n. Etym: [Gr. hydrate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance, as salt, ammonium chloride, etc., which
crystallizes with water of crystallization only at low temperatures,
or below the freezing point of water. F. Guthrie.

CRYOLITE
Cry"o*lite (kr"-lt), n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. cryolithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A fluoride of sodium and aluminum, found in Greenland, in white
cleavable masses; -- used as a source of soda and alumina.

CRYOMETER
Cry*om"e*ter, n. [Gr.  cold, frost + -meter.] (Physics)

Defn: A thermometer for the measurement of low temperatures, esp.
such an instrument containing alcohol or some other liquid of a lower
freezing point than mercury.

CRYOPHORUS
Cry*oph"o*rus (kr-f"-rs), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: An instrument used to illustrate the freezing of water by its
own evaporation. The ordinary form consist of two glass bulbs,
connected by a tube of the same material, and containing only a
quantity of water and its vapor, devoid of air. The water is in one
of the bulbs, and freezes when the other is cooled below 32º Fahr.

CRYPT
Crypt (krpt), n. Etym: [L. crypta vault, crypt, Gr. Crot, Crotto.]

1. A vault wholly or partly under ground; especially, a vault under a
church, whether used for burial purposes or for a subterranean chapel
or oratory.
Priesthood works out its task age after age, . . . treasuring in
convents and crypts the few fossils of antique learning. Motley.
My knees are bowed in crypt and shrine. Tennyson.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A simple gland, glandular cavity, or tube; a follicle; as, the
cryps of Lieberk.

CRYPTAL
Crypt"al (-al), a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to crypts.

CRYPTIC; CRYPTICAL
Cryp"tic (krp"tk), Cryp"tic*al (-t-kal), a. Etym: [L. crypticus, Gr.

Defn: Hidden; secret; occult. "Her [nature's] more cryptic ways of
working." Glanvill.

CRYPTICALLY
Cryp"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Secretly; occultly.

CRYPTIDINE
Cryp"ti*dine (krp"t-dn; 104), n. Etym: [Gr. krypto`s hidden.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the quinoline bases, obtained from coal tar as an oily
liquid, C11H11N; also, any one of several substances metameric with,
and resembling, cryptidine proper.

CRYPTOBRANCHIATA
Cryp`to*bran`chi*a"ta (krp`t-bra`k-"t), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
krypto`s hidden + L. branchia a gill.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A division of the Amphibia; the Derotremata.
(b) A group of nudibranch mollusks.

CRYPTOBRANCHIATE
Cryp`to*bran"chi*ate (-br"k-t), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having concealed or rudimentary gills.

CRYPTOCRYSTALLINE
Cryp`to*crys"tal*line (-krs"tal-ln), a. Etym: [Gr. krypto`s hidden +
E. crystalline.] (Geol.)

Defn: Indistinctly crystalline; -- applied to rocks and minerals,
whose state of aggregation is so fine that no distinct particles are
visible, even under the microscope.

CRYPTOGAM
Cryp"to*gam (krp"t-gm), n. Etym: [Cf. F. cryptogame. See
Cryptogamia.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant belonging to the Cryptogamia. Henslow.

CRYPTOGAMIA
Cryp`to*ga"mi*a (krp`t-g"m-), n.; pl. Cryptogamiæ (-. Etym: [NL., fr.
Gr. krypto`s hidden, secret + ga`mos marriage.] (Bot.)

Defn: The series or division of flowerless plants, or those never
having true stamens and pistils, but propagated by spores of various
kinds.

Note: The subdivisions have been variously arranged. The following
arrangement recognizes four classes: --I. Pteridophyta, or Vascular
Acrogens. These include Ferns, Equiseta or Scouring rushes,
Lycopodiaceæ or Club mosses, Selaginelleæ, and several other smaller
orders. Here belonged also the extinct coal plants called
Lepidodendron, Sigillaria, and Calamites. II. Bryophita, or Cellular
Acrogens. These include Musci, or Mosses, Hepaticæ, or Scale mosses
and Liverworts, and possibly Characeæ, the Stoneworts. III. Algæ,
which are divided into Florideæ, the Red Seaweeds, and the orders
Dictyoteæ, Oösporeæ, Zoösporeæ, Conjugatæ, Diatomaceæ, and
Cryptophyceæ. IV. Fungi. The molds, mildews, mushrooms, puffballs,
etc., which are variously grouped into several subclasses and many
orders. The Lichenes or Lichens are now considered to be of a mixed
nature, each plant partly a Fungus and partly an Alga.

CRYPTOGAMIAN; CRYPTOGAMIC; CRYPTOGAMOUS
Cryp`to*ga"mi*an (krp`t-g"m-an), Cryp`to*gam"ic (krp`t-gm"k),
Cryp*to"gam*ous a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the series Cryptogamia, or to plants of
that series.

CRYPTOGAMIST
Cryp*tog"a*mist (-mst), n.

Defn: One skilled in cryptogamic botany.

CRYPTOGRAM
Cryp"to*gram (krp"t-grm), n.

Defn: A cipher writing. Same as Cryptograph.

CRYPTOGRAPH
Cryp"to*graph (-grf), n. Etym: [Gr. krypto`s hidden + -graph: cf. F.
cryptographe.]

Defn: Cipher; something written in cipher. "Decipherers of
cryptograph." J. Earle.

CRYPTOGRAPHAL
Cryp*tog"ra*phal (krp-tg"r-fal), a.

Defn: Pertaining to cryptography; cryptographical. Boyle.

CRYPTOGRAPHER
Cryp*tog"ra*pher (krp-tg"r-fr), n.

Defn: One who writes in cipher, or secret characters.

CRYPTOGRAPHIC; CRYPTOGRAPHICAL
Cryp`to*graph"ic (krp`t-grf"k), Cryp`to*graph"ic*al (krp`t-grf"-kal),
a.

Defn: Relating to cryptography; written in secret characters or in
cipher, or with sympathetic ink.

CRYPTOGRAPHIST
Cryp*tog"ra*phist (krp-tg"r-fst), n.

Defn: Same as Cryptographer.

CRYPTOGRAPHY
Cryp*tog"ra*phy (-f), n. Etym: [Cf. F. cryptographie.]

Defn: The act or art of writing in secret characters; also, secret
characters, or cipher.

CRYPTOLOGY
Cryp*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. krypto`s hidden + -logy.]

Defn: Secret or enigmatical language. Johnson.

CRYPTONYM
Cryp"to*nym (krp"t-nm), n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A secret name; a name by which a person is known only to the
initiated.

CRYPTOPINE
Cryp"to*pine (krp"t-pn; 104), n. Etym: [Gr. krypto`s hidden + E.
opium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless crystalline alkaloid obtained in small quantities
from opium.

CRYPTURI
Cryp*tu"ri (krp-t"r), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of flying, dromTinamou.

CRYSTAL
Crys"tal (krs"tal), n. Etym: [OE. cristal, F. cristal, L. crystallum
crystal, ice, fr. Gr. crystalla, fr. L. crystallum; prob. akin to E.
crust. See Crust, Raw.]

1. (Chem. & Min.)

Defn: The regular form which a substance tends to assume in
solidifying, through the inherent power of cohesive attraction. It is
bounded by plane surfaces, symmetrically arranged, and each species
of crystal has fixed axial ratios. See Crystallization.

2. The material of quartz, in crystallization transparent or nearly
so, and either colorless or slightly tinged with gray, or the like; -
- called also rock crystal. Ornamental vessels are made of it. Cf.
Smoky quartz, Pebble; also Brazilian pebble, under Brazilian.

3. A species of glass, more perfect in its composition and
manufacture than common glass, and often cut into ornamental forms.
See Flint glass.

4. The glass over the dial of a watch case.

5. Anything resembling crystal, as clear water, etc.
The blue crystal of the seas. Byron.
Blood crystal. See under Blood.
 -- Compound crystal. See under Compound.
 -- Iceland crystal, a transparent variety of calcite, or
crystallized calcium carbonate, brought from Iceland, and used in
certain optical instruments, as the polariscope.
 -- Rock crystal, or Mountain crystal, any transparent crystal of
quartz, particularly of limpid or colorless quartz.

CRYSTAL
Crys"tal, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or like, crystal; clear; transparent; lucid;
pellucid; crystalline.
Through crystal walls each little mote will peep. Shak.
By crystal streams that murmur through the meads. Dryden.
The crystal pellets at the touch congeal, And from the ground
rebounds the ratting hail. H. Brooks.

CRYSTALLIN
Crys"tal*lin (-ln), n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: See Gobulin.

CRYSTALLINE
Crys"tal*line (krs"tal-ln or -ln; 277), a. Etym: [L. crystallinus,
from Gr. cristallin. See Crystal.]

1. Consisting, or made, of crystal.
Mount, eagle, to my palace crystalline. Shak.

2. Formed by crystallization; like crystal in texture.
Their crystalline structure. Whewell.

3. Imperfectly crystallized; as, granite is only crystalline, while
quartz crystal is perfectlly crystallized.

4. Fig.: Resembling crystal; pure; transparent; pellucid. "The
crystalline sky." Milton. Crystalline heavens, or Crystalline
spheres, in the Ptolemaic system of astronomy, two transparent
spheres imagined to exist between the region of the fixed stars and
the primum mobile (or outer circle of the heavens, which by its
motion was supposed to carry round all those within it), in order to
explain certain movements of the heavently bodies.
 -- Crystalline lens (Anat.), the capsular lenslike body in the eye,
serving to focus the rays of light. It consists of rodlike cells
derived from the external embryonic epithelium.

CRYSTALLINE
Crys"tal*line, n.

1. A crystalline substance.

2. See Aniline. [Obs.]

CRYSTALLITE
Crys"tal*lite (krs"tal-lt), n. Etym: [See Crystal.] (Min.)

Defn: A minute mineral form like those common in glassy volcanic
rocks and some slags, not having a definite crystalline outline and
not referable to any mineral species, but marking the first step in
the crystallization process. According to their form crystallites are
called trichites, belonites, globulites, etc.

CRYSTALLIZABLE
Crys"tal*li`za*ble (krs"tal-l`z-b'l), a.

Defn: Capable of being crystallized; that may be formed into
crystals.

CRYSTALLIZATION
Crys`tal*li*za"tion (krs`tal-l-z"shn), n. Etym: [Cf. F.
cristallization.]

1. (Chem. & Min.)

Defn: The act or process by which a substance in solidifying assumes
the form and sructure of a crystal, or becomes crystallized.

2. The body formed by crystallizing; as, silver on precipitation
forms arborescent crystallizations.

Note: The systems of crystallization are the several classes to which
the forms are mathematically referable. They are most simply
described according to the relative lengths and inclinations of
certain assumed lines called axes; but the real distinction is the
degree of symmetry characterizing them. 1. The Isometric, or
Monometric, system has the axes all equal, as in the cube,
octahedron, etc. 2. The Tetragonal, or Dimetric, system has a varying
vertical axis, while the lateral are equal, as in the right square
prism. 3. The Orthorhombic, or Trimetric, system has the three axes
unequal, as in the rectangular and rhombic prism. In this system, the
lateral axes are called, respectively, macrodiagonal and
brachydiagonal.
 -- The preceding are erect forms, the axes intersecting at right
angles. The following are oblique. 4. The Monoclinic system, having
one of the intersections oblique, as in the oblique rhombic prism. In
this system, the lateral axes are called respectively, clinodiagonal
and orthodiagonal. 5. The Triclinic system, having all the three
intersections oblique, as in the oblique rhomboidal prism. There is
also: 6. The Hexagonal system (one division of which is called
Rhombohedral), in which there are three equal lateral axes, and a
vertical axis of variable length, as in the hexagonal prism and the
rhombohedron.

Note: The Diclinic system, sometimes recognized, with two oblique
intersections, is only a variety of the Triclinic.

CRYSTALLIZE
Crys"tal*lize (krs"tal-lz), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Crystallized (-lzd);
p. pr. & vb. n. Crystallizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. cristalliser. See
Crystal.]

Defn: To cause to form crystals, or to assume the crystalline form.

CRYSTALLIZE
Crys"tal*lize, v. i.

Defn: To be converted into a crystal; to take on a crystalline form,
through the action of crystallogenic or cohesive attraction.

CRYSTALLOGENIC; CRYSTALLOGENICAL
Crys`tal*lo*gen"ic (-l-jn"k), Crys`tal*lo*gen"ic*al (--kal), a.

Defn: Pertaining to the production of crystals; crystal-producing;
as, crystallogenic attraction.

CRYSTALLOGENY
Crys`tal*log"e*ny (krs`tal-lj"-n), n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The science which pertains to the production of crystals.

CRYSTALLOGRAPHER
Crys`tal*log"ra*pher (krs`tal-lg"r-fr), n.

Defn: One who describes crystals, or the manner of their formation;
one versed in crystallography.

CRYSTALLOGRAPHIC; CRYSTALLOGRAPHICAL
Crys`tal*lo*graph"ic (-l-grf"k), Crys`tal*lo*graph"ic*al (--kal), a.
Etym: [Cf. F. crystallographique.]

Defn: Pertaining to crystallography.

CRYSTALLOGRAPHICALLY
Crys`tal*lo*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of crystallography.

CRYSTALLOGRAPHY
Crys`tal*log"ra*phy (krs`tal-lg"r-f), n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy: cf. F.
cristallographie. See Crystal.]

1. The doctrine or science of crystallization, teaching the system of
forms among crystals, their structure, and their methods of
formation.

2. A discourse or treatise on crystallization.

CRYSTALLOID
Crys"tal*loid (krs"tal-loid), a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Crystal-like; transparent like crystal.

CRYSTALLOID
Crys"tal*loid, n.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A body which, in solution, diffuses readily through animal
membranes, and generally is capable of being crystallized; -- opposed
to colloid.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the microscopic particles resembling crystals,
consisting of protein matter, which occur in certain plant cells; --
called also protein crystal.

CRYSTALLOLOGY; CRISTALLOLOGY
Crys`tal*lol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of the crystalline structure of inorganic bodies.

CRYSTALLOMANCY
Crys"tal*lo*man`cy (-l-mn`s), n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of a crystal or other transparent body,
especially a beryl.

CRYSTALLOMETRY
Crys`tal*lom"e*try (-lm"-tr), n. Etym: [Gr. -metry.]

Defn: The art of measuring crystals.

CRYSTALLURGY
Crys"tal*lur`gy (-lr`j), n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Crystallizaton.

CTENOCYST
Cte"no*cyst (t"n-sst), n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An organ of the Ctenophora, supposed to be sensory.

CTENOID
Cte"noid (t"noid or tn"oid), a. (Zoöl.)
(a) Having a comblike margin, as a ctenoid scale.
(b) Pertaining to the Ctenoidei.
 -- n.

Defn: A ctenoidean.

CTENOIDEAN
Cte*noid"e*an (t-noid"-an), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Relating to the Ctenoidei.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Ctenoidei.

CTENOIDEI
Cte*noid"e*i (--), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of fishes, established by Agassiz, characterized by
having scales with a pectinated margin, as in the perch. The group is
now generally regarded as artificial.

CTENOPHORA
Cte*noph"o*ra (t-nf"-r), n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of Coelenterata, commonly ellipsoidal in shape,
swimming by means of eight longitudinal rows of paddles. The separate
paddles somewhat resemble combs.

CTENOPHORE
Cten"o*phore (tn"-fr), n.

Defn: (Zoöl.) One of the Ctenophora.

CTENOPHORIC; CTENOPHOROUS
Cten`o*phor"ic (tn`-fr"k), Cte*noph"o*rous (t-nf"-rs), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Ctenophora.

CTENOSTOMATA
Cten`o*stom"a*ta (tn`-stm"-t), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of Bryozoa, usually having a circle of bristles
below the tentacles.

CUB
Cub (kb), n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. cuib cub, whelp, young dog, Ir. & Gael.
cu dog; akin to E. hound.]

1. A young animal, esp. the young of the bear.

2. Jocosely or in contempt, a boy or girl, esp. an awkward, rude,
illmannered boy.
O, thuo dissembling cub! what wilt thou be When time hath sowed a
drizzle on thy case Shak.

CUB
Cub, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Cubbed (kp. pr. & vb. n. Cubbing.]

Defn: To bring forth; -- said of animals, or in contempt, of persons.
"Cubb'd in a cabin." Dryden.

CUB
Cub, n. Etym: [Cf. Cub a young animal.]

1. A stall for cattle. [Obs.]
I would rather have such . . . .in cubor kennel than in my closet or
at my table. Landor.

2. A cupboard. [Obs.] Laud.

CUB
Cub, v. t.

Defn: To shut up or confine. [Obs.] Burton.

CUBAN
Cu"ban (k"ban), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cuba or its inhabitants.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Cuba.

CUBATION
Cu*ba"tion (k-b"shn), n. Etym: [L. cubatio, fr. cubare to lie down.]

Defn: The act of lying down; a reclining. [Obs.]

CUBATORY
Cu"ba*to*ry (k"b-t-r), a. Etym: [L. cubator he who lies down, fr.
cubare.]

Defn: Lying down; recumbent. [R.]

CUBATURE
Cu"ba*ture (k"b-tr; 135), n. Etym: [L. cubus cube: cf. F. cubature.
See Cube.]

Defn: The process of determining the solid or cubic contents of a
body.

CUBBRIDGE-HEAD
Cub"bridge-head` (kb"rjj-hd), n. (Naut.)

Defn: A bulkhead on the forecastle and half deck of a ship.

CUBBY; CUBBYHOLE
Cub"by (kb"b), Cub"by*hole` (-hl`), n. Etym: [See Cub a stall.]

Defn: A snug or confined place.

CUBDRAWN
Cub"*drawn` (kb"drn`), a.

Defn: Sucked by cubs. [R.]
This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch. Shak.

CUBE
Cube (kb), n. Etym: [F. cube, L. cubus, fr. Gr.

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A regular solid body, with six equal square sides.

2. (Math.)

Defn: The product obtained by taking a number or quantity three times
as a factor; as, 4x4=16, and 16x4=64, the cube of 4. Cube ore (Min.),
pharmacosiderite. It commonly crystallizes in cubes of a green color.
 -- Cube root. (Math.), the number or quantity which, multiplied into
itself, and then into the product, produces the given cube; thus, 3
is the cube root of 27, for 3x3x3 = 27.
 -- Cube spar (Min.), anhydrite; anhydrous calcium sulphate.

CUBE
Cube, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cubed (kbd); p. pr. & vb. n. Cubing.]

Defn: To raise to the third power; to obtain the cube of.

CUBEB
Cu"beb (k"bb), n. Etym: [F. cub (cf. It. cubebe, Pr., Sp., Pg., & NL.
cubeba), fr. Ar. kab.]

Defn: The small, spicy berry of a species of pepper (Piper Cubeba; in
med., Cubeba officinalis), native in Java and Borneo, but now
cultivated in various tropical countries. The dried unripe fruit is
much used in medicine as a stimulant and purgative.

CUBEBIC
Cu*beb"ic (k-bb"k), a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, cubebs; as, cubebic acid (a
soft olive-green resin extracted from cubebs).

CUBHOOD
Cub"hood (kb"hd), n.

Defn: The state of being a cub. [Jocose] "From cubhood to old age."
W. B. Dawkins.

CUBIC; CUBICAL
Cu"bic (k"bk), Cu"bic*al (-b-kal), a. Etym: [L. cubicus, Gr. cubique.
See Cube.]

1. Having the form or properties of a cube; contained, or capable of
being contained, in a cube.

2. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Isometric or monometric; as, cubic cleavage. See
Crystallization. Cubic equation, an equation in which the highest
power of the unknown quantity is a cube.
 -- Cubic foot, a volume equivalent to a cubical solid which measures
a foot in each of its dimensions.
 -- Cubic number, a number produced by multiplying a number into
itself, and that product again by the same number. See Cube.
 -- Cubical parabola (Geom.), two curves of the third degree, one
plane, and one on space of three dimensions.

CUBIC
Cu"bic, n. (Geom.)

Defn: A curve of the third degree. Circular cubic. See under
Circular.

CUBICALLY
Cu"bic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cubical method.

CUBICALNESS
Cu"bic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being cubical.

CUBICLE
Cu"bi*cle (k"b-k'l), n. Etym: [L. cubiculum.]

Defn: A loding room; esp., a sleeping place partitioned off from a
large dormitory.

CUBICULAR
Cu*bic"u*lar (k-k"-lr), a. Etym: [L. cubicularis, fr. cubiculum a
sleeping room, fr. cubare to lie down.]

Defn: Belonging to a chamber or bedroom. [Obs.] Howell.

CUBIFORM
Cu"bi*form (k"b-frm), a.

Defn: Of the form of a cube.

CUBILE
Cu*bi"le (k-b"l), n. Etym: [L., bed.]

Defn: The lowest course of stones in a building.

CUBILOSE
Cu"bi*lose` (k"b-ls`), n. Etym: [L. cubile bed, nest.]

Defn: A mucilagenous secretion of certain birds found as the
characteristic ingredient of edible bird's-nests.

CUBISM
Cu"bism (ku"biz'm), n. (Painting)

Defn: A movement or phase in post-impressionism (which see, below). -
- Cu"bist (#), n.

CUBIT
Cu"bit (k"bt), n. Etym: [L. cubitum, cubitus; elbow, ell, cubit, fr.
(because the elbow serves focubare to lie down, recline; cf. Gr.
Incumbent, Covey.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The forearm; the ulna, a bone of the arm extending from elbow
to wrist. [Obs.]

2. A measure of length, being the distance from the elbow to the
extremity of the middle finger.

Note: The cubit varies in length in different countries, the Roman
cubit being 17,47 inches, the Greek 18,20, the Hebrew somewhat
longer, and the English 18 inches.

CUBITAL
Cu"bit*al (k"bt-al), a. Etym: [L. cubitalis.]

1. Of or pertaining to the cubit or ulna; as, the cubital nerve; the
cubital artery; the cubital muscle.

2. Of the length of a cubit. Sir. T. Browne.

CUBITAL
Cu"bit*al, n.

Defn: A sleeve covering the arm from the elbow to the hand. Crabb.

CUBITED
Cu"bit*ed, a.

Defn: Having the measure of a cubit.

CUBLESS
Cub"less (kb"ls), a.

Defn: Having no cubs. Byron.

CUBOID
Cu"boid (k"boid), a. Etym: [Cube + -oid: cf. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Cube-shaped, or nearly so; as, the cuboid bone of the foot.
 -- n. (Anat.)

Defn: The bone of the tarsus, which, in man and most mammals,
supports the metatarsals of the fourth and fifth toes.

CUBOIDAL
Cu*boid"al (k-boid"al), a. (Anat.)

Defn: Cuboid.

CUBO-OCTAHEDRAL
Cu`bo-oc`ta*he"dral (k`b-k`t-hdral), a.

Defn: Presenting a combination of a cube and an octahedron.

CUBO-OCTAHEDRON
Cu`bo-oc`ta*he"dron (-drn), n. (Crystallog.)

Defn: A combination of a cube and octahedron, esp. one in which the
octahedral faces meet at the middle of the cubic edges.

CUCA
Cu"ca (k"k), n. Etym: [Sp., fr. native name.]

Defn: See Coca.

CUCKING STOOL
Cuck"ing stool` (k. Etym: [Cf. AS. scealfingstol, a word of similar
meaning, allied to scealfor a diver, mergus avis; or possibly from F.
coquine a hussy, slut, jade, f. of coquin, OE. cokin, a rascal; or
cf. Icel. k to dung, k dung, the name being given as to a disgracing
or infamous punishment.]

Defn: A kind of chair formerly used for punishing scolds, and also
dishonest tradesmen, by fastening them in it, usually in front of
their doors, to be pelted and hooted at by the mob, but sometimes to
be taken to the water and ducked; -- called also a castigatory, a
tumbrel, and a trebuchet; and often, but not so correctly, a ducking
stool. Sir. W. Scott.

CUCKOLD
Cuck"old (kk"ld), n. Etym: [OE. kukeweld, cokewold, cokold, fr. OF.
coucoul, cucuault, the last syllable being modified by the OE. suffix
-wold (see Herald); cf. F. cocu a cuckold, formerly also, a cuckoo,
and L. cuculus a cuckoo. The word alludes to the habit of the female
cuckoo, who lays her eggs in the nests of other birds, to be hatched
by them.]

1. A man whose wife is unfaithful; the husband of an adulteress.
Shak.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A West Indian plectognath fish (Ostracion triqueter).
(b) The cowfish.

CUCKOLD
Cuck"old, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cuckolded;p. pr. & vb. n. Cuckolding.]

Defn: To make a cuckold of, as a husband, by seducing his wife, or by
her becoming an adulteress. Shak.

CUCKOLDIZE
Cuck"old*ize (-z), v. t.

Defn: To cuckold. Dryden.

CUCKOLDLY
Cuck"old*ly, a.

Defn: Having the qualities of a cuckold; mean-spirited; sneaking.
Shak.

CUCKOLDOM
Cuck"ol*dom (-l-dm), n.

Defn: The state of a cuckold; cuckolds, collectively. Addison.

CUCKOLDRY
Cuck"old*ry (-ld-r), n.

Defn: The state of being a cuckold; the practice of making cuckolds.

CUCKOLD'S KNOT
Cuck"old's knot` (kk"ldz nt`). (Naut.)

Defn: A hitch or knot, by which a rope is secured to a spar, the two
parts of the rope being crossed and seized together; -- called also
cuckold's neck. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

CUCKOO
Cuck"oo (kk"), n. Etym: [OE. coccou, cukkow, F. coucou, prob. of
imitative origin; cf. L. cuculus, Gr. k, G. kuckuk, D. koekoek.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird belonging to Cuculus, Coccyzus, and several allied
genera, of many species.

Note: The European cuckoo (Cuculus canorus) builds no nest of its
own, but lays its eggs in the nests of other birds, to be hatched by
them. The American yellow-billed cuckoo (Coccyzus Americanus) and the
black-billed cuckoo (C. erythrophthalmus) build their own nests.
Cuckoo bee (Zool.), a bee, parasitic in the larval stage in the nests
of other bees, feeding either upon their food or larvae. They belong
to the genera Nomada, Melecta, Epeolus, and others.
 -- Cuckoo clock, a clock so constructed that at the time for
striking it gives forth sounds resembling the cry of the cuckoo.
 -- Cuckoo dove (Zoöl.), a long-tailed pigeon of the genus
Macropygia. Many species inhabit the East Indies.
 -- Cuckoo fish (Zoöl.), the European red gurnard (Trigla cuculus).
The name probably alludes to the sound that it utters.
 -- Cuckoo falcon (Zoöl.), any falcon of the genus Baza. The genus
inhabits Africa and the East Indies.
 -- Cuckoo maid (Zoöl.), the wryneck; -- called also cuckoo mate.
 -- Cuckoo ray (Zoöl.), a British ray (Raia miraletus).
 -- Cuckoo spit, or Cuckoo spittle. (a) A frothy secretion found upon
plants, exuded by the larvae of certain insects, for concealment; --
called also toad spittle and frog spit. (b) (Zoöl.) A small
hemipterous insect, the larva of which, living on grass and the
leaves of plants, exudes this secretion. The insects belong to
Aphrophora, Helochara, and allied genera.
 -- Ground cuckoo, the chaparral cock.

CUCKOOBUD
Cuck"oo*bud" (kk"-bd`), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Ranunculus (R. bulbosus); -- called also
butterflower, buttercup, kingcup, goldcup. Shak.

CUCKOOFLOWER
Cuck"oo*flow`er (-flou`r), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Cardamine (C. pratensis), or lady's smock. Its
leaves are used in salads. Also, the ragged robin (Lychnis Flos-
cuculi).

CUCKOOPINT
Cuck"oo*pint` (-pnt`), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Arum (A. maculatum); the European wake-
robin.

CUCQUEAN
Cuc"quean` (kk"kwn`), n. Etym: [Cuckold + quean.]

Defn: A woman whose husband is unfaithful to her. [Obs.]

CUCUJO
Cu*cu"jo (k-k"h), n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The fire beetle of Mexico and the West Indies.

CUCULLATE; CUCULLATED
Cu"cul*late (k"kl-lt or k-kl"lt), Cu"cul*la`ted (-l`td or -l-td), a.
Etym: [LL. cullatus, fr. L. cucullus a cap, hood. See Cowl a hood.]

1. Hooded; cowled; covered, as with a hood. Sir T. Browne.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the edges toward the base rolled inward, as the leaf of
the commonest American blue violet.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) Having the prothorax elevated so as to form a sort of hood,
receiving the head, as in certain insects.
(b) Having a hoodlike crest on the head, as certain birds, mammals,
and reptiles.

CUCULLUS
Cu*cul"lus, n.; pl. Cuculli (#). [L., a hood.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A hood-shaped organ, resembling a cowl or monk's hood, as
certain concave and arched sepals or petals.

2.  (Zoöl.) A color marking or structure on the head somewhat
resembling a hood.

CUCULOID
Cu"cu*loid (kk-loid), a. Etym: [L.cuculus a cuckoo + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or belonging to the cuckoos (Cuculidæ).

CUCUMBER
Cu"cum*ber (k`km-br, formerly kou"km-br), n.Etym: [OE. cucumer,
cocumber, cucumber, fr. L. cucmis, gen.cucumeris; cf. OF. cocombre,F.
concombre.] (Bot.)

Defn: A creeping plant, and its fruit, of several species of the
genus Cucumis, esp. Cucumis sativus, the unripe fruit of which is
eaten either fresh or picked. Also, similar plants or fruits of
several other genera. See below. Bitter cucumber (Bot.), the
Citrullus or Cucumis Colocynthis. SeeColocynth.
 -- Cucumber beetle. (Zoöl.) (a) A small, black flea-beetle
(Crepidodera cucumeris), which destroys the leaves of cucumber,
squash, and melon vines. (b) The squash beetle.
 -- Cucumber tree.(a) A large ornamental or shade tree of the genus
Magnolia (M. acuminata), so called from a slight resemblance of its
young fruit to a small cucumber. (b) An East Indian plant (Averrhoa
Bilimbi) which produces the fruit known as bilimbi.
 -- Jamaica cucumber, Jerusalem cucumber, the prickly-fruited gherkin
(Cucumis Anguria).
 -- Snake cucumber, a species (Cucumis flexuosus) remarkable for its
long, curiously-shaped fruit.
 -- Squirting cucumber, a plant (Ecbalium Elaterium) whose small oval
fruit separates from the footstalk when ripe and expels its seeds and
juice with considerable force through the opening thus made. See
Elaterium.
 -- Star cucumber,a climbing weed (Sicyos angulatus) with prickly
fruit.

CUCUMIFORM
Cu*cu"mi*form (k-k"m-frm), a. Etym: [L. cucumis cucumber + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a cucumber; having the form of a cylinder
tapered and rounded at the ends, and either straight or curved.

CUCUMIS
Cu"cu*mis (kk--ms), n. Etym: [L., cucumber.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants including the cucumber, melon, and same kinds
of gourds.

CUCURBIT; CUCURBITE
Cu*cur"bit Cu*cur"bite (k-kr"bt), n. Etym: [L. cucurbita a gourd: cf.
F. cucurbite. See Gourd.] (Chem.)

Defn: A vessel of flask for distillation, used with, or forming part
of, an alembic; a matrass; -- originally in the shape of a gourd,
with a wide mouth. See Alembic.

CUCURBITACEOUS
Cu*cur`bi*ta"ceous (-b-t"shs), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cucurbitac.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants of which
the cucumber, melon, and gourd are common examples.

CUCURBITIVE
Cu*cur"bi*tive (k-kr"b-tv), a.

Defn: Having the shape of a gourd seed; -- said of certain small
worms.

CUD
Cud (kd), n Etym: [AS. cudu, cwudu,cwidu,cweodo, of uncertain origin;
cf, G. k bait, Icel. kvi womb, Goth. qipus. Cf. Quid.]

1. That portion of food which is brought up into the mouth by
ruminating animals from their first stomach, to be cheved a second
time.
Whatsoever parteth the hoof, and is cloven-footed, and cheweth the
cud, among the beasts, that shall ye eat. Levit. xi. 3

2. A portion of tobacco held in the mouth and chewed; a quid. [Low]

3. The first stomach of ruminating beasts. Crabb. To chew the cud, to
ruminate; to meditate; used with of; as, to chew the cud of bitter
memories.
Chewed the thrice turned cudof wrath. Tennyson.

CUDBEAR
Cud"bear` (kd"br`), n Etym: [Also cudbeard, corrupted fr. the name of
Dr. Cuthbert Gordon, a Scotchman, who first brought it into notice.]

1. A powder of a violet red color, difficult to moisten with water,
used for making violet or purple dye. It is prepared from certain
species of lichen, especially Lecanora tartarea. Ure.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A lichen (Lecanora tartarea), from which the powder is
obtained.

CUDDEN
Cud"den (kd"d'n), n. Etym: [For sense 1, cf. Scot.cuddy an ass; for
sense 2, see 3d Cuddy.]

1. A clown; a low rustic; a dolt. [Obs.]
The slavering cudden, propped upon his staff. Dryden.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The coalfish. See 3d Cuddy.

CUDDLE
Cud"dle (kd"d'l), v. i. [imp. & p.p. Cuddled (-d'ld); p.pr. & vb. n.
Cuddling (-dlng).] Etym: [Prob. for couthle, fr. couth known; cf. OE.
kuppen to cuddle, or cu to make friends with. SeeCouth, Uncouth,
Can.]

Defn: To
She cuddles low beneath the brake; Nor would she stay, nor dares she
fly. Prior.

CUDDLE
Cud"dle, v. t.

Defn: To embrace closely; to foundle. Forby.

CUDDLE
Cud"dle, n.

Defn: A close embrace.

CUDDY
Cud"dy (-d), n. Etym: [See Cudden. ]

1. An ass; esp., one driven by a huckster or greengrocer. [Scot.]

2. Hence: A blockhead; a lout. Hood.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: A lever mounted on a tripod for lifting stones, leveling up
railroad ties, etc. Knight.

CUDDY
Cud"dy (kd"d), n. Etym: [Prob. a contraction fr. D. kajuit cabin: cf.
F.cahute hut.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small cabin: also, the galley or kitchen of a vessel.

CUDDY
Cud"dy, n. Etym: [Scot.; cf. Gael. cudaig, cudainn, or E.cuttlefish,
or cod, codfish.] (Zoöl)

Defn: The coalfish (Pollachius carbonarius). [Written also cudden.]

CUDGEL
Cudg"el (kj"l), n. Etym: [OE. kuggel; cf. G. keule club (with a round
end), kugel ball, or perh. W. cogyl cudgel, or D. cudse, kuds,
cudgel.]

Defn: A staff used in cudgel play, shorter than the quarterstaff, and
wielded with one hand; hence, any heavy stick used as a weapon.
He getteth him a grievous crabtree cudgel and . . . falls to rating
of them as if they were dogs. Bunyan.
Cudgel play, a fight or sportive contest with cudgels.
 -- To cross the cudgels, to forbear or give up the contest; -- a
phrase borrowed from the practice of cudgel players, who lay one
cudgel over another when the contest is ended.
 -- To take up cudgels for, to engage in a contest in behalf of (some
one or something).

CUDGEL
Cudg"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cudgeled or Cudgelled (-; p. pr. & vb.
n. Cudgeling or cudgelling.]

Defn: To beat with a cudgel.
An he here, I would cudgel him like a dog. Shak.
To cudgel one's brains, to exercise one's wits.

CUDGELER
Cudg"el*er (-r), n.

Defn: One who beats with a cudgel. [Written also cudgeller.]

CUDWEED
Cud"weed` (kd"wd`), n Etym: [Apparently fr. cud. + weed, but perh. a
corruption of cottonweed; or of cut weed, so called from its use as
an application to cuts and chafings.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small composite plant with cottony or silky stem and leaves,
primarily a species of Gnaphalium, but the name is now given to many
plants of different genera, as Filago, Antennaria, etc.; cottonweed.

CUE
Cue (k, n. Etym: [ OF. coue, coe, F. queue, fr. L. coda, cauda, tail.
Cf. Caudal, Coward, Queue.]

1. The tail; the end of a thing; especially, a tail-like twist of
hair worn at the back of the head; a queue.

2. The last words of a play actor's speech, serving as an intimation
for the next succeeding player to speak; any word or words which
serve to remind a player to speak or to do something; a catchword.
When my cue comes, call me, and I will answer. Shak.

3. A hint or intimation.
Give them [the servants] their cue to attend in two lines as he
leaves the house. Swift.

4. The part one has to perform in, or as in, a play.
Were it my cueto fight, I should have known it Without a prompter.
Shak.

5. Humor; temper of mind. [Colloq.] Dickens.

6. A straight tapering rod used to impel the balls in playing
billiards.

CUE
Cue, v. t.

Defn: To form into a cue; to braid; to twist.

CUE
Cue, n. Etym: [From q, an abbreviation for quadrans a farthing.]

Defn: A small portion of bread or beer; the quantity bought with a
farthing or half farthing. [Obs.]

Note: The term was formerly current in the English universities, the
letter q being the mark in the buttery books to denote such a
portion. Nares.
Hast thou worn Gowns in the university, tossed logic, Sucked
philosophy, eat cues Old Play.

CUERPO
Cuer"po (kwr"p), n. Etym: [Sp. cuerpo, fr. L. corpus body. See
Corpse.]

Defn: The body. In cuerpo, without full dress, so that the shape of
the Body is exposed; hence, naked or uncovered.
Exposed in cuerpo to their rage. Hudibras.

CUESTA
Cues"ta, n. [Sp.]

Defn: A sloping plain, esp. one with the upper end at the crest of a
cliff; a hill or ridge with one face steep and the opposite face
gently sloping. [Southwestern U. S.]

CUFF
Cuff (kf), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cuffed (k; p. pr. & vb. n. Cuffing.]
Etym: [Cf. Sw. kuffa to knock, push,kufva to check, subdue, and E.
cow, v. t. ]

1. To strike; esp., to smite with the palm or flat of the hand; to
slap.
I swear I'll cuff you, if you strike again. Shak.
They with their quills did all the hurt they could, And cuffed the
tender chickens from their food. Dryden.

2. To buffet. "Cuffed by the gale." Tennyson.

CUFF
Cuff, v. i.

Defn: To fight; to scuffle; to box.
While the peers cuff to make the rabble sport. Dryden.

CUFF
Cuff, n.

Defn: A blow; esp.,, a blow with the open hand; a box; a slap.
Snatcheth his sword, and fiercely to him flies; Who well it wards,
and quitten cuff with cuff. Spenser.
Many a bitter kick and cuff. Hudibras.

CUFF
Cuff, n. Etym: [Perh. from F. coiffe headdress, hood, or coif; as if
the cuff were a cap for the hand. Cf. Coif.]

1. The fold at the end of a sleeve; the part of a sleeve turned back
from the hand.
He would visit his mistress in a morning gown, band,short cuffs, and
a peaked beard. Arbuthnot.

2. Any ornamental appendage at the wrist, whether attached to the
sleeve of the garment or separate;especially, in modern times, such
an appendage of starched linen, or a substitute for it of paper, or
the like.

CUFFY
Cuf"fy (k, n.

Defn: A name for a negro. [Slang]

CUFIC
Cu"fic (k`fk), a. Etym: [So called from the town of Cufa, in the
province of Bagdad.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the older characters of the Arabic
language. [Written also Kufic.]

CUI BONO
Cui` bo"no. [L.]

Defn: Lit., for whose benefit; incorrectly understood, it came to be
used in the sense, of what good or use; and hence, (what) purpose;
object; specif., the ultimate object of life.

CUINAGE
Cuin"age (kwn`j), n.Etym: [Corrupted fr. coinage.]

Defn: The stamping of pigs of tin, by the proper officer, with the
arms of the duchy of Cornwall.

CUIRASS
Cui*rass" (kw-rs`, or kw`rs; 277), n.; pl. Cuirasses(-. Etym: [
F.cuirasse, orig., a breascuir, cuirie influenced by It. corazza, or
Sp. cora, fr. an assumed LL. coriacea, fr. L. coriacevs, adj., of
leather, fr. corium leather, hide; akin to Gr. skora hide, Lith.
skura hide, leather. Cf. Coriaceous.]

1.
(a) A piece of defensive armor, covering the body from the neck to
the girdle.
(b) The breastplate taken by itself.

Note: The cuirass covered the body before and behind. It consisted of
two parts, a breast- and backpiece of iron fastened together by means
of straps and buckles or other like contrivances. It was originally,
as the name imports, made of leather, but afterward of metal. Crose.

2. (Zoöl)

Defn: An armor of bony plates, somewhat resembling a cuirass.

CUIRASSED
Cui*rassed" (kw-rst` or kw`rst), a.

1. Wearing a cuirass.

2. (Zoöl)

Defn: Having a covering of bony plates, resembling a cuirass;- said
of certain fishes.

CUIRASSIER
Cui`ras*sier" (kw`rs-sr"), n. Etym: [F. cuirassier. See Curass.]

Defn: A soldier armed with a cuirass. Milton.

CUIR BOUILLI
Cuir" bou`illi". [F.]

Defn: In decorative art, boiled leather, fitted by the process to
receive impressed patterns, like those produced by chasing metal, and
to retain the impression permanently.

CUISH
Cuish (kws), n. Etym: [F. cuisse thigh, fr. L. coxa hip: cf. F.
cuissard, OF, cuissot, armor for the thigh, cuish. Cf. Hough.]

Defn: Defensive armor for the thighs. [ Written also cuisse, and
quish.]

CUISINE
Cui`sine" (kw`zn"), n. Etym: [F., fr. L. coquina kitchen, fr. coquere
to cook. See Kitchen.]

1. The kitchen or cooking department.

2. Manner or style of cooking.

CULASSE
Cu`lasse" (ku`ls"), n. Etym: [F., fr. cul back.]

Defn: The lower faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond.

CULDEE
Cul*dee" (k, n. Etym: [ Prob. fr. Gael.cuilteach; cf. Ir. ceilede.]

Defn: One of a class of anchorites who lived in various parts of
Scotland, Ireland, and Wales.
The pure Culdees Were Albyn's earliest priests of God. Campbell.

CUL-DE-SAC
Cul`-de-sac" (ku`de-sk" or kul`de-sk"), n.; pl. Culs-de-sac (ku`- or
kulz`-). Etym: [ F., lit., bottom of a bag.]

1. A passage with only one outlet, as a street closed at one end; a
blind alley; hence, a trap.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: a position in which an army finds itself with no way of exit
but to the front.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: Any bag-shaped or tubular cavity, vessel, or organ, open only
at one end.

CULERAGE
Cul"er*age (kl"r-j), n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Culrage.

CULEX
Cu"lex (k"lks), n. Etym: [L., a gnat.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of dipterous insects, including the gnat and mosquito.

CULICID
Cu"li*cid, a. [L. culex, -icis, gnat.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Mosquito family (Culicidæ). -- n.

Defn: A culicid insect.

CULICIFORM
Cu*lic"i*form (k-ls"i-frm). a. Etym: [L. culex a gnat + -form:cf. F.
culiciforme.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Gnat-shaped.

CULINARILY
Cu"li*na*ri*ly (k`l-n-r-l), adv.

Defn: In the manner of a kitchen; in connection with a kitchen or
cooking.

CULINARY
Cu"li*na*ry (k"l-n-r), a. Etym: [L. culinarius, fr. culina kitchen,
perh. akin to carbo coal: cf. F. culinare.]

Defn: Relating to the kitchen, or to the art of cookery; used in
kitchens; as, a culinary vessel; the culinary art.

CULL
Cull (kl), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Culled (kld); p. pr.& Culling.] Etym:
[OE., OF. cuillir, coillir, F.cueillir, to gather, pluck, pick, fr.
L. colligere. See Coil, v. t., and cf. Collect.]

Defn: To separate, select, or pick out; to choose and gather or
collect; as, to cuil flowers.
From his herd he culls, For slaughter, from the fairest of his bulls.
Dryden.
Whitest honey in fairy gardens culled. Tennyson.

CULL
Cull, n.

Defn: A cully; a dupe; a gull. See Gully.

CULLENDER
Cul"len*der (kl"ln-dr), n.

Defn: A strainer. See Colander.

CULLER
Cull"er (kl"r), n.

Defn: One who piks or chooses; esp., an inspector who select wares
suitable for market.

CULLET
Cul"let (kl"lt), n. Etym: [From Cull, v. t. ]

Defn: Broken glass for remelting.

CULLET
Cul"let, n. Etym: [A dim. from F. cul back.]

Defn: A small central plane in the back of a cut gem. See Collet, 3
(b).

CULLIBILITY
Cul`li*bil"i*ty (-l-bl"-ty), n. Etym: [From cully to trick, cheat.]

Defn: Gullibility. [R.] Swift.

CULLIBLE
Cul"li*ble (kl"l-b'l), a.

Defn: Easily deceived; gullible.

CULLING
Cull"ing (kl"ng), n

1. The act of one who culls.

2. pl.

Defn: Anything separated or selected from a mass.

CULLION
Cul"lion (kl"yn), n. Etym: [OF. couillon, coillon, F. co, a vile
fellow, coward, dupe, from OF. couillon, coillon, testicle, fr. il
the scrotum, fr. L. coleus a leather bag, the scrotum.]

Defn: A mean wretch; a base fellow; a poltroon; a scullion. "Away,
base cullions." Shak.

CULLIONLY
Cul"lion*ly, a.

Defn: Mean; base. Shak.

CULLIS
Cul"lis (k, n. Etym: [OF. coleïs, F. coulis, fr. OF. & F. couler to
strain, to flow, fr. L. colare to filter, strain; cf. LL. coladicium.
Cf. Colander.]

Defn: A strong broth of meat, strained and made clear for invalids;
also, a savory jelly. [Obs.]
When I am exellent at caudles And cullises . . . you shall be welcome
to me. Beau. & Fl.

CULLIS
Cul"lis, n.; pl. Cullises (-. Etym: [F.coulisse groove, fr. the same
source as E. cullis broth.] (Arch.)

Defn: A gutter in a roof; a channel or groove.

CULLS
Culls (klz), n. pl. Etym: [From Cull,, v. t.]

1. Refuse timber, from which the best part has been culled out.

2. Any refuse stuff, as rolls not properly baked.

CULLY
Cul"ly (kl"l), n.; pl. Cullies (-l. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. cullion.]

Defn: A person easily deceived, tricked, or imposed on; a mean dupe;
a gull.
I have learned that . . . I am not the first cully whom she has
passed upon for a countess. Addison.

CULLY
Cul"ly, v. t. Etym: [See Cully,n., and cf. D. kullen to cheat, gull.]

Defn: To trick, cheat, or impose on; to deceive. "Tricks to cully
fools." Pomfret.

CULLYISM
Cul"ly*ism (-z'm), n.

Defn: The state of being a cully.
Less frequent instances of eminent cullyism. Spectator.

CULM
Culm (klm), n. Etym: [L. culmus stark, stem; akin to colasmus.
SeeHalm.] (Bot.)

Defn: The stalk or stem of grain and grasses (including the bamboo),
jointed and usually hollow.

CULM
Culm, n. Etym: [Perh. from W. cwlm knot or tie, applied to this
species of coal, which is much found in balls or knots in some parts
of Wales: cf. OE. culme smoke, soot.] (Min.)
(a) Mineral coal that is not bituminous; anthracite, especially when
found in small masses.
(b) The waste of the Pennsylvania anthracite mines, consisting of
fine coal, dust, etc., and used as fuel. Raymond.

CULMEN
Cul"men (kl"mn), n. Etym: [L., fr. cellere (in comp.) to impel; cf.
celsus pushed upward, lofty.]

1. Top; summit; acme. R. North.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dorsal ridge of a bird's bill.

CULMIFEROUS
Cul*mif"er*ous (kl-mf"r-s), a. Etym: [L. culmus stalk or stem + -
ferous: cf. F. culmif.]

Defn: Having jointed stems or culms.

CULMIFEROUS
Cul*mif"er*ous (kl-mf"r-s), a.Etym: [2d culm + -ferous.] (Min.)

Defn: Containing, or abounding in, culm or glance coal.

CULMINAL
Cul"mi*nal (kl"m-nal), a.

Defn: Pertaining to a culmen.

CULMINANT
Cul"mi*nant (-nant), a.

Defn: Being vertical, or at the highest point of altitude; hence,
predominant. [R.]

CULMINATE
Cul"mi*nate (kl"m-nt), v. i. [imp. & p.p. Culminated (-n`td); p. pr.
& vb. n. Culminating (-n Etym: [L. cuimen top or ridge. See Column.]

1. To reach its highest point of altitude; to come to the meridian;
to be vertical or directly overhead.
As when his beams at noon Culminate from the equator. Milton.

2. To reach the highest point, as of rank, size, power, numbers, etc.
The reptile race culminated in the secondary era. Dana.
The house of Burgundy was rapidly culminating. Motley.

CULMINATE
Cul"mi*nate (kl"m-nt), a.

Defn: Growing upward, as distinguished from a laterral growth; --
applied to the growth of corals. Dana.

CULMINATION
Cul"mi*na"tion (kl`m-n"shn), n. Etym: [Cf. F.culmination]

1. The attainment of the highest point of altitude reached by a
heavently body; passage across the meridian; transit.

2. Attainment or arrival at the highest pitch of glory, power, etc.

CULPA
Cul"pa (kl"p), n. Etym: [L.] (Law)

Defn: Negligence or fault, as distinguishable from dolus (deceit,
fraud), which implies intent, culpa being imputable to defect of
intellect, dolus to defect of heart. Wharton.

CULPABILITY
Cul`pa*bil"i*ty (kl`p-bl`-t), n.; pl. Culpabilities (-t. Etym: [Cf.
F. culpabilité.]

Defn: The state of being culpable.

CULPABLE
Cul"pa*ble (kl"p-b'l), a. Etym: [OE. culpable, coulpable, coupable,
F. coupable, formerly also coupable, formerly also coulpable,
culpable, fr. L. culpabilis, fr. culpare to blame, fr. culpa fault.]

1. Deserving censure; worthy of blame; faulty; immoral; criminal.
State Trials (1413).
If he acts according to the best reason he hath, he is not culpable,
though he be mistaken in his measures. Sharp.

2. Guilty; as, clpable of a crime. [Obs.] Spenser.
 -- Cul"pa*ble*ness, n.
 -- Cul"pa*bly, adv.

CULPATORY
Cul"pa*to*ry (-t-r), a.

Defn: Expressing blame; censuring; reprehensory; inculpating.
Adjectives . . . commonly used by Latian authors in a culpatory
sense. Walpole.

CULPE
Culpe (klp), n. Etym: [F. coulpe, fr.L.culpa.]

Defn: Blameworthiness. [Obs.]
Banished out of the realme . . . without culpe. E. Hall.

CULPON
Cul"pon (kl"pn), n. Etym: [See Coupon.]

Defn: A shered; a fragment; a strip of wood. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CULPRIT
Cul"prit (kl"prt), n. Etym: [Prob. corrupted for culpate, fr. Law
Latin culpatus the accused, p. p. of L. culpare to blame. See
Culpable.]

1. One accused of, or ar
An author is in the condition of a culprit; the public are his
judges. Prior.

2. One quilty of a fault; a criminal.

CULRAGE
Cul"rage (kl"rj), n. Etym: [OE. culrage, culrache; prob. fr. F. cul
the buttok + F. & E. rage; F. curage.] (Bot.)

Defn: Smartweed (Polygonum Hydropiper).

CULT
Cult (klt) n .Etym: [F. culte, L. cultus care, culture, fr. colere to
cultivate. Cf. Cultus.]

1. Attentive care; homage; worship.
Every one is convinced of the reality of a better self, and of.
thecult or homage which is due to it. Shaftesbury.

2. A system of religious belief and worship.
That which was the religion of Moses is the ceremonial or cult of the
religion of Christ. Coleridge.

CULTCH
Cultch (klch;224), n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Empty oyster shells and other substances laid down on oyster
grounds to furnish points for the attachment of the spawn of the
oyster. [Also written cutch.]

CULTER
Cul"ter (kl"tr), n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A colter. See Colter.

CULTIROSTRAL
Cul`ti*ros"tral (-t-rs"tral), a. Etym: [See Cultirostres.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a bill shaped like the colter of a plow, or like a
knife, as the heron, stork, etc.

CULTIROSTRES
Cul`ti*ros"tres (-trz), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. culter colter of a
plow, knife + rostrum bill.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tribe of wading birds including the stork, heron, crane, etc.

CULTIVABLE
Cul"ti*va*ble (kl"t-v-b'l), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cultivable.]

Defn: Capable of being cultivated or tilled. Todd.

CULTIVATABLE
Cul"ti*va`ta*ble (kl"t-v`t-b'l), a.

Defn: Cultivable.

CULTIVATE
Cul"ti*vate (kl"t-vt), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Cultivated (-v`td); p.pr. &
vb. n. Cultivating (-v`-t*ng).] Etym: [LL. cultivatus, p.p. of
cultivare to cultivate, fr. cultivus cultivated, fr. L. cultus, p.p.
of colere to till, cultivate. Cf. Colony.]

1. To bestow attention, care, and labor upon, with a view to valuable
returns; to till; to fertilize; as, to cultivate soil.

2. To direct special attention to; to devote time and thought to; to
foster; to cherish.
Leisure . . . to cultivate general literature. Wordsworth.

3. To seek the society of; to court intimacy with.
I ever looked on Lord Keppel as one of the greatest and best men of
his age; and I loved and cultivated him accordingly. Burke.

4. To improve by labor, care, or study; to impart culture to; to
civilize; to refine.
To cultivate the wild, licentious savage. Addison.
The mind of man hath need to be prepared for piety and virtue; it
must be cultivated to the end. Tillotson.

5. To raise or produce by tillage; to care for while growing; as, to
cultivate corn or grass.

CULTIVATION
Cul`ti*va"tion (kl`t-v"shn), n. Etym: [Cf. F. cultivation.]

1. The art or act of cultivating; improvement for agricultural
purposes or by agricultural processes; tillage; production by
tillage.

2. Bestowal of time or attention for self-improvement or for the
benefit of others; fostering care.

3. The state of being cultivated; advancement in physical,
intellectual, or moral condition; refinement; culture.
Italy . . . was but imperfectly reduced to cultivation before the
irruption of the barbarians. Hallam.

CULTIVATOR
Cul"ti*va`tor (kl"t-v`tr), n. Etym: [Cf. F. cultivateur.]

1. One who cultivates; as, a cultivator of the soil; a cultivator of
literature. Whewell.

2. An agricultural implement used in the tillage of growing crops, to
loosen the surface of the earth and kill the weeds; esp., a
triangular frame set with small shares, drawn by a horse and by
handles.

Note: In a broader signification it includes any complex implement
for pulverizing or stirring the surface of the soil, as harrows,
grubbers, horse hoes, etc.

CULTRATE; CULTRATED
Cul"trate (kl"trt), Cul"tra*ted (-tr-td), a. Etym: [L. cultratus
knife-shaped, fromculter, cultri, knife.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Sharp-edged and pointed; shaped like a pruning knife, as the
beak of certain birds.

CULTRIFORM
Cul"tri*form (-tr-frm), a. Etym: [L. culter, cultri, knife + -form.]
(Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Shaped like a pruning knife; cultrate.

CULTRIVOROUS
Cul*triv"o*rous (kl-trb"-rs), a. Etym: [L. culter, cultri, knife +
vorare to devour.]

Defn: Devouring knives; swallowing, or pretending to swallow, knives;
-- applied to persons who have swallowed, or have seemed to swallow,
knives with impunity. Dunglison.

CULTURABLE
Cul"tur*a*ble (kl"tr--b'l; 135), a.

Defn: Capable of, or fit for, being cultivated; capable or becoming
cultured. London Spectator.

CULTURAL
Cul"tur*al (kl"tr-al), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to culture.

CULTURE
Cul"ture (kl"tr; 135), n. Etym: [F. culture, L. cultura, fr. colere
to till, cultivate; of uncertain origin. Cf. Colony.]

1. The act or practice of cultivating, or of preparing the earth for
seed and raising crops by tillage; as, the culture of the soil.

2. The act of, or any labor or means employed for, training,
disciplining, or refining the moral and intellectual nature of man;
as. the culture of the mind.
If vain our toil We ought to blame theculture, not the soil. Pepe.

3. The state of being cultivated; result of cultivation; physical
improvement; enlightenment and discipline acquired by mental and
moral training; civilization; refinement in manners and taste.
What the Greeks expressed by their humanitas, we less happily try to
express by the more artificial word culture. J. C. Shairp.
The list of all the items of the general life of a people represents
that whole which we call its culture. Tylor.
Culture fluid, a fluid in which the germs of microscopic organisms
are made to develop, either for purposes of study or as a means of
modifying their virulence.

CULTURE
Cul"ture, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Cultured (-trd; 135); p. pr. & vb. n.
Culturing.]

Defn: To cultivate; to educate.
They came . . . into places well inhabited and cultured. Usher.

CULTURED
Cul"tured (kl"trd), a.

1. Under culture; cultivated. "Cultured vales." Shenstone.

2. Characterized by mental and moral training; disciplined; refined;
well-educated.
The sense of beauty in nature, even among cultured people, is less
often met with than other mental endowments. I. Taylor.
The cunning hand and cultured brain. Whittier.

CULTURE FEATURES
Culture features. (Surv.)

Defn: The artificial features of a district as distinguished from the
natural.

CULTURELESS
Cul"ture*less, a.

Defn: Having no culture.

CULTURE MYTH
Culture myth.

Defn: A myth accounting for the discovery of arts and sciences or the
advent of a higher civilization, as in the Prometheus myth.

CULTURIST
Cul"tur*ist, n.

1. A cultivator.

2. One who is an advocate of culture.
The culturists, by which term I mean not those who esteem culture (as
what intelligent man does notJ. C. Shairp

CULTUS
Cul"tus (kl"ts), n. sing. & pl.; E. pl.Cultuses (-. Etym: [L.,
cultivation, culture. See Cult.]

Defn: Established or accepted religious rites or usages of worship;
state of religious development. Cf.Cult, 2.

CULTUS COD
Cul"tus cod` (kd`). Etym: [Chinook cultus of little worth.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cod, and Buffalo cod, under Buffalo.

CULVER
Cul"ver (k"vr), n. Etym: [AS. culfre, perh. fr. L. columba.]

Defn: A dove. "Culver in the falcon's fist." Spenser.

CULVER
Cul"ver, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. Culverin.]

Defn: A culverin.
Falcon and culver on each tower Stood prompt their deadly hail to
shower. Sir W. Scott.

CULVERHOUSE
Cul"ver*house` (-hous`), n.

Defn: A dovecote.

CULVERIN
Cul"ver*in (kl"vr-n), n.Etym: [F. coulevrine, prop. fem. of
couleuvrin like a serpent, fr. couleuvre adder, fr. L. coluber,
colubra.]

Defn: A long cannon of the 16th century, usually an 18-pounder with
serpent-shaped handles.
Trump, and drum, and roaring culverin. Mac

CULVERKEY
Cul"ver*key` (-k`), n.

1. A bunch of the keys or samaras of the ash tree. Wright.

2. An English meadow plant, perhaps the columbine or the bluebell
squill (Scilla nutans). [Obs.]
A girl cropping culverkeys and cowslips to make garlands. Walton.

CULVER'S PHYSIC; CULVER'S ROOT
Cul"ver's phys"ic, or Cul"ver's root`. [So called after a Dr. Culver,
who used it.] (Bot.)

Defn: The root of a handsome erect herb (Leptandra, syn. Veronica,
Virginica) common in most moist woods of North America , used as an
active cathartic and emetic; also, the plant itself.

CULVERT
Cul"vert (kl"vrt), n. Etym: [Prob. from OF. coulouere, F. couloir,
channel, gutter, gallery, fr. couler to flow. See Cullis.]

Defn: A transverse drain or waterway of masonry under a road,
railroad, canal, etc.; a small bridge.

CULVERTAIL
Cul"ver*tail` (kl"vr-tl`), n. (Carp.)

Defn: Dovetail.

CULVERTAILED
Cul"ver*tailed` (-tld`), a.

Defn: United or fastened by a dovetailed joint.

CUMACEA
Cu*ma"ce*a (k-m"sh- or -s-), n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of marine Crustacea, mostly of small size.

CUMBENT
Cum"bent (km"bent), a. Etym: [Cf. Recumbent, Covey.]

Defn: Lying down; recumbent. J. Dyer.

CUMBER
Cum"ber (km"br), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Cumbered (-brd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cumbering.] Etym: [OE. combren, cumbren,OF. combrer to hinder, from
LL. cumbrus a heap, fr. L. cumulus; cf. Skr. to increase, grow
strong. Cf. Cumulate.]

Defn: To rest upon as a troublesome or useless weight or load; to be
burdensome or oppressive to; to hinder or embarrass in attaining an
object, to obstruct or occupy uselessly; to embarrass; to trouble.
Why asks he what avails him not in fight, And would but cumber and
retard his flight Dryden.
Martha was cumbered about much serving. Luke x. 40.
Cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground Luke xiii. 7.
The multiplying variety of arguments, especially frivolous ones, . .
. but cumbers the memory. Locke.

CUMBER
Cum"ber (km"br), n. Etym: [Cf. encombre hindrance, impediment. See
Cuber,v.]

Defn: Trouble; embarrassment; distress. [Obs.] [Written also comber.]
A place of much distraction and cumber. Sir H. Wotton.
Sage counsel in cumber. Sir W. Scott.

CUMBERSOME
Cum"ber*some (k, a.

1. Burdensome or hindering, as a weight or drag; embarrassing;
vexatious; cumbrous.
To perform a cumbersome obedience. Sir. P. Sidney.

2. Not easily managed; as, a cumbersome contrivance or machine.
He holds them in utter contempt, as lumbering, cumbersome,
circuitous. I. Taylor.
-- Cum"ber*some*ly, adv.
 -- Cum"ber*some*ness,n.

CUMBRANCE
Cum"brance (km"brans), n.

Defn: Encumbrance. [Obs.]
Extol not riches then, the toil of fools, The wise man's cumbrance,
if not snare. Milton.

CUMBRIAN
Cum"bri*an (km"br-an), a.

Defn: Pertaining to Cumberland, England, or to a system of rocks
found there. Cumbrian system (Geol.), the slate or graywacke system
of rocks, now included in the Cambrian or Silurian system; -- so
called because most prominent at Cumberland.

CUMBROUS
Cum"brous (km"brs), a.

1. Rendering action or motion difficult or toilsome; serving to
obstruct or hinder; burdensome; clogging.
He sunk beneath the cumbrous weight. Swift.
That cumbrousand unwieldy style which disfigures English composition
so extensively. De Quincey.

2. Giving trouble; vexatious. [Obs.]
A clud of cumbrous gnats. Spenser.
-- Cum"brous*ly, adv.
 -- Cum"brous*ness, n.

CUMENE
Cu"mene (k"mn), n. Etym: [From Cumin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless oily hydrocarbon, C6H5.C3H7, obtained by the
distillation of cuminic acid; -- called also cumol.

CUMFREY
Cum"frey (km"fr), n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Comfrey.

CUMIC
Cu"mic (k"mk), a. (Chem.)

Defn: See Cuming.

CUMIDINE
Cu"mi*dine (k"m-dn or -dn), n. Etym: [From Cumin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A strong, liquid, organic base, C3H7.C6H4.NH2, homologous with
aniline.

CUMIN
Cum"in (km"n), n. Etym: [OE.comin, AS. cymen, fr. L. cuminum,
Gr.kamm, Heb. kamm; cf. OF. comin, F. cumin. Cf. Kummel.] (Bot.)

Defn: A dwarf umbelliferous plant, somewhat resembling fennel
(Cuminum Cyminum), cultivated for its seeds, which have a bitterish,
warm taste, with an aromatic flavor, and are used like those of anise
and caraway. [Written also cummin.]
Rank-smelling rue, and cumin good for eyes. Spenser.
Black cumin (Bot.), a plant (Nigella sativa) with pungent seeds, used
by the Afghans, etc.

CUMINIC
Cu*min"ic (k-mn"k), a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, cumin, or from oil of caraway;
as, cuminic acid. Cuminic acid (Chem.), white crystalline substance,
C3H7.C6H4.CO2H, obtained from oil of caraway.

CUMINIL
Cu"mi*nil (k"m-nl), n .

Defn: A substance, analogous to benzil, obtained from oil of caraway.

CUMINOL
Cu"mi*nol (-nl), n. Etym: [Cuminic + L. oleum.]

Defn: A liquid, C3H7.C6H4.CHO, obtained from oil of caraway; --
called also cuminic aldehyde.

CUMMERBUND
Cum"mer*bund`, n. [Written also kummerbund, cummerband, etc.] [Hind.
kamarband, fr. Per. Kamar loins + band fastening.]

Defn: A sash for the waist; a girdle. [India]

CUMMIN
Cum"min (km"mn), n.

Defn: Same as Cumin.
Ye pay tithe of mint, and cummin. Matt. xxiii. 23.

CUMQUAT
Cum"quat, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Kumquat.

CUMSHAW
Cum"shaw (km"sha), n. Etym: [Chin. kom-tsie.]

Defn: A present or bonus; -- originally applied to that paid on ships
which entered the port of Canton. S. Wells Williams.

CUMSHAW
Cum"shaw, v. t.

Defn: To give or make a present to.

CUMU-CIRRO-STRATUS
Cu"mu-cir`ro-stra"tus (k`m*-sr`r-str"ts), n. (Meteor.)

Defn: Nimbus, or rain cloud. See Nimbus, and Cloud.

CUMULATE
Cu"mu*late (k"m-lt), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cumulated (-l`td); p. pr. &
vb. n. Cumulating (-l`tng).] Etym: [L. cumulatus, p. p. of cumulare
to heap up, fr. cumulus a heap. See Cumber.]

Defn: To gather or throw into a heap; to heap together; to
accumulate.
Shoals of shells, bedded and cumulated heap upon heap. Woodward.

CUMULATION
Cu`mu*la"tion (k`m-l"shn), n. Etym: [Cf. F. cumulation.]

Defn: The act of heaping together; a heap. See Accumulation.

CUMULATIST
Cu"mu*la*tist (k"m-l-tst), n.

Defn: One who accumulates; one who collects. [R.]

CUMULATIVE
Cu"mu*la*tive (k"m-l-tv), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cumulatif.]

1. Composed of parts in a heap; forming a mass; agregated. "As for
knowledge which man receiveth by teaching, it is cumulative, njt
original." Bacon

2. Augmenting, gaining, or giving force, by successive additions; as,
a cumulative argument, i. e., one whose force increases as the
statement proceeds.
The argument . . . is in very truth not logical and single, but moral
and cumulative. Trench.

3. (Law)
(a) Tending to prove the same point to which other evidence has been
offered; -- said of evidence.
(b) Given by same testator to the same legatee; -- said of a legacy.
Bouvier. Wharton.

Cumulative action (Med.), that action of certain drugs, by virtue of
which they produce, when administered in small doses repeated at
considerable intervals, the same effect as if given in a single large
dose.
 -- Cumulative poison, a poison the action of which is cumulative.
 -- Cumulative vote or system of voting (Politics), that system which
allows to each voter as many votes as there are persons to be voted
for, and permits him to accumulate these votes upon one person, or to
distribute them among the candidates as he pleases.

CUMULOSE
Cu"mu*lose` (k"m-ls`), a. Etym: [From Cumulus.]

Defn: Full of heaps.

CUMULOSTRATUS
Cu"mu*lo*stra"tus (k"m-l-str"ts), n. (Meteor.)

Defn: A form of cloud. See Cloud.

CUMULUS
Cu"mu*lus (k"m-ls), n.; pl. Cumuli (-l. Etym: [L., a heap. See
Cumber.] (Meteor.)

Defn: One of the four principal forms of clouds. SeeCloud.

CUN
Cun (kn), v. t. Etym: [See Cond.]

Defn: To con (a ship). [Obs.]

CUN
Cun, v. t. Etym: [See 1st Con.]

Defn: To know. See Con. [Obs.]

CUNABULA
Cu*nab"u*la (k-nb"-l), n. pl. Etym: [L., a cradle, earliest abode,
fr. cunae cradle.]

1. The earliest abode; original dwelling place; originals; as, the
cunabula of the human race.

2. (Bibliography)

Defn: The extant copies of the first or earliest printed books, or of
such as were printed in the 15th century.

CUNCTATION
Cunc*ta"tion (knk-t"shn), n. Etym: [L. cunctatio, fr. cunctari, p.p.
cunctatus, to delay.]

Defn: Delay; procrastination. [R.] Carlyle.

CUNCTATIVE
Cunc"ta*tive (knk"t-tv), a.

Defn: Slow; tardy; dilatory; causing delay.

CUNCTATOR
Cunc*ta"tor (knk-t"tr), n. Etym: [L., lit., a delayer; -- applied as
a surname to Q. Fabius Maximus.]

Defn: One who delays or lingers. [R.]

CUNCTIPOTENT
Cunc*tip"o*tent (knk-tp"-tent), a. Etym: [L. cunctipotens; cunctus
all + potens powerful.]

Defn: All-powerful; omnipotent. [R] "God cunctipotent." Neale (Trans.
Rhythm of St. Bernard).

CUND
Cund (k*nd), v. t. Etym: [See Cond.]

Defn: To con (a ship). [Obs.]

CUNDURANGO
Cun`du*ran"go (kn`d-rn"g), n. (Med.)

Defn: The bark of a South American vine (Gonolobus Condurango) of the
Milkweed family. It has been supposed, but erroneously, to be a cure
for cancer. [Written also condurango.]

CUNEAL
Cu"ne*al (k"n-al), Etym: [L. cuneus a wege. See Coin.]

Defn: Relating to a wedge; wedge-shaped.

CUNEATE; CUNEATED
Cu"ne*ate (k"n-t), Cu"ne*a`ted (-`tEd), a. Etym: [L.cuneatus, fr.
cuneus a wege SeeCoin.]

Defn: Wedge-shaped; (Bot.), wedge-shaped, with the point at the base;
as, a cuneate leaf.

CUNEATIC
Cu`ne*at"ic (k`n-t"k), a.

Defn: Cuneiform. "Cuneatic decipherment." Sayce.

CUNEIFORM; CUNIFORM
Cu*ne"i*form (k-n"-frm), Cu"ni*form (k"n-frm), a. Etym: [L. cuneus a
wedge + -form: cf. F. cunei-forme. See Coin.]

1. Wedge-shaped; as, a cuneiform bone; -- especially applied to the
wedge-shaped or arrowheaded characters of ancient Persian and
Assyrian inscriptions. See Arrowheaded.

2. Pertaining to, or versed in, the ancient wedge-shaped characters,
or the inscriptions in them. "A cuneiform scholar." Rawlinson.

CUNEIFORM; CUNIFORM
Cu*ne"i*form, Cu"ni*form, n.

1. The wedge-shaped characters used in ancient Persian and Assyrian
inscriptions. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).

2. (Anat.)
(a) One of the three tarsal bones supporting the first, second third
metatarsals. They are usually designated as external, middle, and
internal, or ectocuniform, mesocuniform, and entocuniform,
respectively.
(b) One of the carpal bones usually articulating wich the ulna; --
called also pyramidal and ulnare.

CUNETTE
Cu*nette" (k-nt"), n. Etym: [F.] (Fort.)

Defn: A drain trench, in a ditch or moat; -- called also cuvette.

CUNNER
Cun"ner (kn"nr), n. Etym: [Cf. Conner.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A small edible fish of the Atlantic coast (Ctenolabrus
adspersus); -- called also chogset, burgall, blue perch, and bait
stealer. [Written also conner.]
(b) A small shellfish; the limpet or patella.

CUNNING
Cun"ning (kn"nng), a. Etym: [AS. cunnan to know, to be able. See 1st
Con, Can.]

1. Knowing; skillfull; dexterous. "A cunning workman." Ex. xxxviii.
23.
"Tis beauty truly blent, whose red and white Nature's own sweet and
cunning hand laid on. Shak.
Esau was a cunning hunter. Gen xxv. 27.

2. Wrought with, or exibiting, skill or ingenuity; ingenious;
curious; as, cunning work.
Over them Arachne high did lift
Her cunning web. Spenser.

3. Crafty; sly; artful; designid; deceitful.
They are resolved to be cunning; let others run the hazard of being
sincere. South.

4. Pretty or pleasing; as, a cunning little boy. [Colloq. U.S.]
Barlett.

Syn.
 -- Cunning, Artful, Sly, Wily, Crafty. These epithets agree in
expressing an aptitude for attaining some end by peculiar and secret
means. Cunning is usually low; as, a cunning trick. Artful is more
ingenious and inventive; as, an artful device. Sly implies a turn for
what is double or concealed; as, sly humor; a sly evasion. Crafty
denotes a talent for dexterously deceiving; as, a crafty manager.
Wily describes a talent for the use of stratagems; as, a wily
politician. "Acunning man often shows his dexterity in simply
concealing. An artful man goes further, and exerts his ingenuity in
misleading. A crafty man mingles cunning with art, and so shapes his
actions as to lull suspicions. The young may be cunning, but the
experienced only can be crafty. Slyness is a vulgar kind of cunning;
the sly man goes cautiously and silently to work. Wiliness is a
species of cunning or craft applicable only to cases of attack and
defence." Crabb.

CUNNING
Cun"ning, n. Etym: [AS. cunnung trial, or Icel. kunnandi knowledge.
See Cunning, a.]

1. Knowledge; art; skill; dexterity. [Archaic]
Let my right hand forget her cunning. Ps. cxxxvii. 5.
A carpenter's desert Stands more in cunning than in power. Chapman.

2. The faculty or act of using stratagem to accomplish a purpose;
fraudulent skill or dexterity; deceit; craft.
Discourage cunning in a child; cunning is the ape of wisdom. Locke.
We take cunning for a sinister or crooked wisdom. Bacon.

CUNNINGLY
Cun"ning*ly (kn"nng-l), adv.

Defn: In a cunning manner; with cunning.

CUNNINGMAN
Cun"ning*man` (-mn`), n.

Defn: A fortune teller; one who pretends to reveal mysteries. [Obs.]
Hudibras.

CUNNINGNESS
Cun"ning*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being cunning; craft.

CUP
Cup (kp), n. Etym: [AS. cuppe, LL. cuppa cup; cf. L. cupa tub, cask;
cf. also Gr. k pit, hollow, OSlav. kupa cup. Cf. Coop, Cupola, Cowl a
water vessel, and Cob, Coif, Cop.]

1. A small vessel, used commonly to drink from; as, a tin cup, a
silver cup, a wine cup; especially, in modern times, the pottery or
porcelain vessel, commonly with a handle, used with a saucer in
drinking tea, coffee, and the like.

2. The contents of such a vessel; a cupful.
Give me a cup of sack, boy. Shak.

3. pl.

Defn: Repeated potations; social or exessive indulgence in
intoxicating drinks; revelry.
Thence from cups to civil broils. Milton.

4. That which is to be received or indured; that which is allotted to
one; a portion.
O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Matt.
xxvi. 39.

5. Anything shaped like a cup; as, the cup of an acorn, or of a
flower.
The cowslip's golden cup no more I see. Shenstone.

6. (Med.)

Defn: A cupping glass or other vessel or instrument used to produce
the vacuum in cupping. Cup and ball, a familiar toy of children,
having a cup on the top of a piece of wood to which, a ball is
attached by a cord; the ball, being thrown up, is to be caught in the
cup; bilboquet. Milman.- Cup and can, familiar companions.
 -- Dry cup, Wet cup (Med.), a cup used for dry or wet cupping. See
under Cupping.
 -- To be in one's cups, to be drunk.

CUP
Cup, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cupped (kpt); p. pr. & vb. n. Cupping.]

1. To supply with cups of wine. [R.]
Cup us, till the world go round. Shak.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: To apply a cupping apparatus to; to subject to the operation of
cupping. See Cupping.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: To make concave or in the form of a cup; as, to cup the end of
a screw.

CUPBEARER
Cup"bear`er (-br`r), n.

1. One whose office it is to fill and hand the cups at an
enterainment.

2. (Antiq.)

Defn: One of the attendants of a prince or noble, permanently charged
with the performance of this office for his master. "I was the king's
cupbearer." Neh. i. 11.

CUPBOARD
Cup"board (kb"brd), n. Etym: [Cup + board.]

1. A board or shelf for cups and dishes. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. A small closet in a room, with shelves to receive cups, dishes,
food, etc.; hence, any small closet. Cupboard love, interested love,
or that which has an eye to the cupboard. "A cupboard love is seldom
true." Poor Robin. [Colloq.] -- To cry cupboard, to call for food; to
express hunger. [Colloq.] "My stomach cries cupboard." W. Irving.

CUPBOARD
Cup"board, v. t.

Defn: To collect, as into a cupboard; to hoard. [R.] Shak.

CUPEL
Cu"pel (k"pl), n. Etym: [LL. cupella cup (cf. L. cupella, small cask,
dim. of cupa) : cf. F. coupelle. See Cup, and cf. Coblet.]

Defn: A shallow porus cup, used in refining precious metals, commonly
made of bone ashes (phosphate of lime). [Written also coppel.] Cupel
dust, powder used in purifying metals.

CUPEL
Cu*pel" (k-pl"), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cupelled (-pld"); p. pr. & vb.
n. Cupelling.]

Defn: To refine by means of a cupel.

CUPELLATION
Cu`pel*la"tion (k`pl-l"shn), n. Etym: [See Cupel.]

Defn: The act or process of refining gold or silver, etc., in a
cupel.

Note: The process consist in exposing the cupel containing the metal
to be assayed or refined to a hot blast, by which the lead, copper,
tin, etc., are oxidized, dissolved, and carried down into the porous
cupel, leaving the unoxidizable precious metal. If lead is not
already present in the alloy it must be added before cupellation.

CUPFUL
Cup"ful (kp"fl), n.; pl. Cupfuls (-f.

Defn: As much as a cup will hold.

CUP-GALL
Cup"-gall` (-gl`), n.

Defn: A kind of oak-leaf gall. See Gall.

CUPID
Cu"pid (k"pd), n . Etym: [L.Cupido, fr. cupido desire, desire of
love, fr. cupidus. See Cupidity.] (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: The god of love, son of Venus; usually represented as a naked,
winged boy with bow and arrow.
Pretty dimpled boys, like smiling cupids. Shak.

CUPIDITY
Cu*pid"i*ty (k-pd"-t), n. Etym: [F. cupidite, L. cupiditas, fr.
cupidus longing, desiring, fr. cupere to long for, desire. See
Covet.]

1. A passionate desire; love. [Obs.]

2. Eager or inordinate desire, especially for wealth; greed of gain;
avarice; covetousness.
With the feelings of political distrust were mingled those of
cupidity and envy, as the Spaniard saw the fairest provinces of the
south still in the hands of the accursed race of Ishmael. Prescott.

CUP-MOSS
Cup"-moss` (kp"ms`; 115), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of lichen, of the genus Cladonia.

CUPOLA
Cu"po*la (k"p-l), n.; pl. Cupolas (-l. Etym: [It. cupola, LL. cupula,
cuppula (cf. L. cupula little tub). fr. cupa, cuppa, cup; cf. L. cupa
tub. So called on account of its resemblance to a cup turned over.
See Cup, and cf.Cupule.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A roof having a rounded form, hemispherical or nearly so; also,
a celing having the same form. When on a large scale it is usually
called dome.

2. A small structure standing on the top of a dome; a lantern.

3. A furnace for melting iron or other metals in large quantity, --
used chiefly in foundries and steel works.

4. A revoling shot-proof turret for heavy ordnance.

5. (Anat.)

Defn: The top of the spire of the cochlea of the ear.

CUPPER
Cup"per (kp"pr), n. Etym: [Fropm cup.]

Defn: One who performs the operation of cupping.

CUPPING
Cup"ping (kp"png), n. (Med.)

Defn: The operation of drawing blood to or from the surface of the
person by forming a partial vacuum over the spot. Also, sometimes, a
similar operation for drawing pus from an abscess. Cupping glass, a
glass cup in which a partial vacuum is produced by heat, in the
process of cupping.
 -- Dry cupping, the application of a cupping instrument without
scarification, to draw blood to the surface, produce counter
irritation, etc.
 -- Wet cupping, the operation of drawing blood by the application of
a cupping instrument after scarification.

CUPPY
Cup"py, a.

1. Hollow; cuplike; also, full of cups, or small depressions.

2.  Characterized by cup shakes; -- said of timber.

CUPREOUS
Cu"pre*ous (k"pr-s), a. Etym: [L. cupreus, fr. cuprum.]

Defn: Consisting of copper or resembling copper; coppery.

CUPRIC
Cu"pric (k"prk), a Etym: [From Cuprum.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper;
-- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is present
in its lowest proportion.

CUPRIFEROUS
Cu*prif"er*ous (k-prf"r-s), a. Etym: [Cuprum + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing copper; as, cupriferous silver.

CUPRITE
Cu"prite (k"prt), n. (Min.)

Defn: The red oxide of copper; red copper; an important ore of
copper, occurring massive and in isometric crystals.

CUPROID
Cu"proid (k"proid), n. Etym: [Cuprum + -oid.]

Defn: (Crystalloq.) A solid related to a tetrahedron, and contained
under twelve equal triangles.

CUP-ROSE
Cup"-rose (kp"rz), n.

Defn: Red poppy. See Cop-rose.

CUPROUS
Cu"prous (k"prs), a. Etym: [From Cuprum.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper;
-- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is present
in its highest proportion.

CUPRUM
Cu"prum (k"prm), n. Etym: [L.] (Chem.)

Defn: Copper.

CUP SHAKE
Cup shake. (Forestry)

Defn: A shake or fissure between the annual rings of a tree, found
oftenest near the roots.

CUPULATE
Cu"pu*late (k"p-lt), a.

Defn: Having or bearing cupeles; cupuliferous.

CUPULE
Cu"pule (k"pl), n. Etym: [See Cupola.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A cuplet or little cup, as the acorn; the husk or bur of the
filbert, chestnut, etc.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sucker or acetabulum.

CUPULIFEROUS
Cu`pu*lif"er*ous (k`p-lf"r-s), a. Etym: [Cupule + -ferous: cf. F.
cupulif.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants ot which
the oak and the chestnut are examples, -- trees bearing a smooth,
solid nut inclosed in some kind of cup or bur; bearing, or furnished
with, a cupule.

CUR
Cur (kr), n. Etym: [OE. curre, kur; cf. dial. Sw. kurre dog, OD.
korre watchdog, and Icel. kurra to murmur, grumble, Sw. kurra to
rumble, croak, Dan. kurre to coo, whirr; prob. of imitative origin.]

1. A mongrel or inferior dog.
They . . . like to village curs, Bark when their fellows do. Shak.

2. A worthless, snarling fellow; -- used in contempt.
What would you have, you curs, That like nor peace nor war Shak.

CURABILITY
Cur`a*bil"i*ty (kr`-bl"-t), n.

Defn: The state of being curable; curableness.

CURABLE
Cur"a*ble (kr"-b'l), a. Etym: [Cf. F. curable. See Cure, v. t.]

Defn: Capable of being cured; admitting remedy. "Curable diseases."
Harvey.
 -- Cur"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Cur`a*bly, adv.

CURACAO; CURACOA
Cu`ra*çao", Cu`ra*çoa", (k`r-s"), n.

Defn: A liqueur, or cordial, flavored with orange peel, cinnamon, and
mace; -- first made at the island of Curaçcao.

CURACY
Cu"ra*cy (k"r-s), n.; pl. Curacies (-s. Etym: [See Cure, Curate.]

Defn: The office or employment of a curate.

CURARE; CURARI
Cu*ra"re Cu*ra"ri (k-r"r), n. Etym: [Native name. Cf. Wourall.]

Defn: A black resinoid extract prepared by the South American Indians
from the bark of several species of Strychnos (S. toxifera, etc.). It
sometimes has little effect when taken internally, but is quickly
fatal when introduced into the blood, and used by the Indians as an
arrow poison. [Written also urari, woorali, woorari, etc.]

CURARINE
Cu"ra*rine (k"r-rn or k-r"rn; 104), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A deadly alkaloid extracted from the curare poison and from the
Strychnos toxifera. It is obtained in crystalline colorless salts.

CURARIZE
Cu"ra*rize (-rz), v. t.

Defn: To poison with curare.

CURASSOW
Cu*ras"sow (k-rs"s), n. Etym: [Native name in Brazil.] (Zool.)

Defn: A large gallinaceous bird of the American genera Crax, Ourax,
etc., of the family Cracidæ.

Note: The crested curassow (Crax alector) is black, and about the
size of a small hen-turkey, with an erectile crest of curled
feathers. It ranges from Mexico to Brazil. The galeated curassow or
cushew bird (Ourax Pauxi) is similar in size, and has a large,
hollow, blue, pear-shaped protuberance on the head.

CURAT
Cu"rat (k"rt), n. Etym: [SeeCuirass.]

Defn: A cuirass or breastplate. [Obs.] Spenser.

CURATE
Cu"rate (k"rt), n. Etym: [LL. curatus, prop., one who is charged with
the care (L. cura) of souls. See Cure, n., and cf. Cur]

Defn: One who has the cure souls; originally, any clergyman, but now
usually limited to one who assist a rector or vicar Hook.
All this the good old man performed alone, He spared no pains, for
curate he had none. Dryden.

CURATESHIP
Cu"rate*ship, n.

Defn: A curacy.

CURATION
Cu*ra"tion (k-r"shn), n. Etym: [Cf. OF.curacion.]

Defn: Cure; healing. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CURATIVE
Cur"a*tive (kr"-tv), a. Etym: [Cf. F.curatif. See Cure, v. t.]

Defn: Relating to, or employed in, the cure of diseases; tending to
cure. Arbuthnot.

CURATOR
Cu*ra"tor (k-r"tr). n. Etym: [L., fr. curare to take care of, fr.
cura care.]

1. One who has the care and superintendence of anything, as of a
museum; a custodian; a keeper.

2. One appointed to act as guardian of the estate of a person not
legally competent to manage it, or of an absentee; a trustee; a
guardian.

CURATORSHIP
Cu*ra"tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a curator.

CURATRIX
Cu*ra"trix (-trks), n. Etym: [L.]

1. A woman who cures.

2. A woman who is a guardian or custodian. Burrill.

CURB
Curb (krb), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Curbed (krbd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Curbing.] Etym: [F. courber to bend, curve, L.curvare, fr. curvus
bent, curved; cf. Gr. Curve.]

1. To bend or curve [Obs.]
Crooked and curbed lines. Holland.

2. To guide and manage, or restrain, as with a curb; to bend to one's
will; to subject; to subdue; to restrain; to confine; to keep in
check.
Part wield their arms, part curb the foaming steed. Milton.
Where pinching want must curbthy warm desires. Prior.

3. To furnish wich a curb, as a well; also, to restrain by a curb, as
a bank of earth.

CURB
Curb, v. i.

Defn: To bend; to crouch; to cringe. [Obs.]
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg, Yea, curb and woo for leave to
do him good. Shak.

CURB
Curb, n.

1. That which curbs, restrains, or subdues; a check or hindbrance;
esp., a chain or strap attached to the upper part of the branches of
a bit, and capable of being drawn tightly against the lower jaw of
the horse.
He that before ran in the pastures wild Felt the stiff curb control
his angry jaws. Drayton.
By these men, religion,that should be The curb, is made the spur of
tyranny. Denham.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An assemblage of three or more pieces of timber, or a metal
member, forming a frame around an opening, and serving to maintain
the integrity of that opening; also, a ring of stone serving a
similar purpose, as at the eye of a dome.

3. A frame or wall round the mouth of a well; also, a frame within a
well to prevent the earth caving in.

4. A curbstone.

5. (Far.)

Defn: A swelling on the back part of the hind leg of a horse, just
behind the lowest part of the hock joint, generally causing lameness.
James Law. Curb bit, a stiff bit having branches by which a leverage
is obtained upon the jaws of horse. Knight.
 -- Curb pins (Horology), the pins on the regulator which restrain
the hairspring.
 -- Curb plate (Arch.), a plate serving the purpose of a curb.
 -- Deck curb. See under Deck.

CURBLESS
Curb"less, a.

Defn: Having no curb or restraint.

CURB ROOF
Curb" roof` (rf`).

Defn: A roof having a double slope, or composed, on each side, of two
parts which have unequal inclination; a gambrel roof.

CURBSTONE
Curb"stone` (krb"stn`), n.

Defn: A stone Curbstone broker.See under Broker.

CURCH
Curch (krch), n.

Defn: See Courche.

CURCULIO
Cur*cu"li*o (kr-r"l-), n.; pl. Curculios (-. Etym: [L., a grain
weevil.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a large group of beetles (Rhynchophora) of many genera;
-- called also weevils, snout beetles, billbeetles, and billbugs.
Many of the species are very destructive, as the plum curculio, the
corn, grain, and rice weevils, etc.

CURCULIONIDOUS
Cur`cu*li*on"i*dous (kr`-k-l-n"-ds), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Curculionideæ, or weevil tribe.

CURCUMA
Cur"cu*ma (kr"k-m), n. Etym: [Cf. F., It., & Sp. curcuma; all fr. Ar.
kurkum. Cf. Turmeric.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the order Scitamineæ, including the
turmeric plant (Curcuma longa). Curcuma paper. (Chem.) See Turmeric
paper, under Turmeric.

CURCUMIN
Cur"cu*min (-mn), n. (Chem.)

Defn: The coloring principle of turmeric, or curcuma root, extracted
as an orange yellow crystalline substance, C14H14O4, with a green
fluorescence.

Note: It possesses acid properties and with alkalies forms brownish
salts. This change in color from yellow to brown is the
characteristic reaction of tumeric paper. See Turmeric paper, under
Turmeric.

CURD
Curd (krd), n. Etym: [Of Celtic origin; cf. Gael. gruth, Ir, gruth,
cruth, curd, cruthaim I milk.] [Sometimes written crud.]

1. The coagulated or thickened part of milk, as distingushed from the
whey, or watery part. It is eaten as food, especially when made into
cheese.
Curds and cream, the flower of country fare. Dryden.

2. The coagulated part of any liquid.

3. The edible flower head of certain brassicaceous plants, as the
broccoli and cauliflower.
Broccoli should be cut while the curd, as the flowering mass is
termed, is entire. R. Thompson.
Cauliflowers should be cut for use while the head, or curd, is still
close and compact. F. Burr.

CURD
Curd (krd), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Curded;p. pr. &* vb. n. Curding.]

Defn: To cause to coagulate or thicken; to cause to congeal; to
curdle.
Does it curd thy blood To say I am thy mother Shak.

CURD
Curd, v. i.

Defn: To become coagulated or thickened; to separate into curds and
whey Shak.

CURDINESS
Curd"i*ness (--ns), n.

Defn: The state of being curdy.

CURDLE
Cur"dle (kr"d'l), v. i. Etym: [From Curd.] [Sometimes written crudle
and cruddle.]

1. To change into curd; to coagulate; as, rennet causes milk to
curdle. Thomson.

2. To thicken; to congeal.
Then Mary could feel her heart's blood curdle cold. Southey.

CURDLE
Cur"dle, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Curdled (-d'ld); p.pr. & vb. n. Curdling
(-dlng).]

1. To change into curd; to cause to coagulate. "To curdle whites of
eggs" Boyle.

2. To congeal or thicken.
My chill blood is curdled in my veins. Dryden.

CURDLESS
Curd"less (krd"ls), a.

Defn: Destitute of curd.

CURDY
Curd"y (krd"), a.

Defn: Like curd; full of curd; coagulated. "A curdy mass." Arbuthnot.

CURE
Cure (k, n. Etym: [OF, cure care, F., also, cure, healing, cure of
souls, L. cura care, medical attendance, cure; perh. akin to cavere
to pay heed, E. cution. Cure is not related to care.]

1. Care, heed, or attention. [Obs.]
Of study took he most cure and most heed. Chaucer.
Vicarages of greatcure, but small value. Fuller.

2. Spiritual charge; care of soul; the office of a parish priest or
of a curate; hence, that which is committed to the charge of a parish
priest or of a curate; a curacy; as, to resign a cure; to obtain a
cure.
The appropriator was the incumbent parson, and had the cure of the
souls of the parishioners. Spelman.

3. Medical or hygienic care; remedial treatment of disease; a method
of medical treatment; as, to use the water cure.

4. Act of healing or state of being healed; restoration to health
from disease, or to soundness after injury.
Past hope! pastcure! past help. Shak.
I do cures to-day and to-morrow. Luke xii. 32.

5. Means of the removal of disease or evil; that which heals; a
remedy; a restorative.
Cold, hunger, prisons, ills without a cure. Dryden.
The proper cure of such prejudices. Bp. Hurd.

CURE
Cure, v. t. [imp.& p.p. Cured (krd); p. pr. & vb. n. Curing.] Etym:
[OF. curer to take care, to heal, F., only, to cleanse, L. curare to
take care, to heal, fr. cura. See Cure,.]

1. To heal; to restore to health, soundness, or sanity; to make well;
-- said of a patient.
The child was cured from that very hour. Matt. xvii. 18.

2. To subdue or remove by remedial means; to remedy; to remove; to
heal; -- said of a malady.
To cure this deadly grief. Shak.
Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power . .
. to cure diseases. Luke ix. 1.

3. To set free from (something injurious or blameworthy), as from a
bad habit.
I never knew any man cured of inattention. Swift.

4. To prepare for preservation or permanent keeping; to preserve, as
by drying, salting, etc.; as, to cure beef or fish; to cure hay.

CURE
Cure, v. i.

1. To pay heed; to care; to give attention. [Obs.]

2. To restore health; to effect a cure.
Whose smile and frown, like to Achilles' spear, Is able with the
change to kill and cure. Shak.

3. To become healed.
One desperate grief cures with another's languish. Shak.

CURE
Cu`ré" (k`r"), n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. curatus. See Curate.]

Defn: A curate; a pardon.

CUREALL
Cure"*all` (kr"l`), n.

Defn: A remedy for all diseases, o

CURELESS
Cure"less, a.

Defn: Incapable of cure; incurable.
With patience undergo A cureless ill, since fate will have it so.
Dryden.

CURER
Cur"er (-r), n.

1. One who cures; a healer; a physician.

2. One who prepares beef, fish, etc., for preservation by drying,
salting, smoking, etc.

CURETTE
Cu*rette" (k-rt"), n.Etym: [F., fr. curer to cleanse.] (Med.)

Defn: A scoop or ring with either a blunt or a cutting edge, for
removing substances from the walls of a cavity, as from the eye, ear,
or womb.

CURFEW
Cur"few (kr"f), n. Etym: [OE. courfew, curfu, fr. OF. cuevrefu,
covrefeu, F. couvre-feu; covrir to cover + feu fire, fr. L. focus
fireplace, hearth. See Cover, and Focus.]

1. The ringing of an evening bell, originally a signal to the
inhabitants to cover fires, extinguish lights, and retire to rest, --
instituted by William the Conqueror; also, the bell itself.
He begins at curfew, and walks till the first cock. Shak.
The village curfew, as it tolled profound. Campbell.

2. A utensil for covering the fire. [Obs.]
For pans, pots, curfews, counters and the like. Bacon.

CURIA
Cu"ri*a (k"r-), n.; pl. Curle (-. Etym: [L.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)
(a) One of the thirty parts into which the Roman people were divided
by Romulus.
(b) The place of assembly of one of these divisions.
(c) The place where the meetings of the senate were held; the senate
house.

2. (Middle Ages)

Defn: The court of a sovereign or of a feudal lord; also; his
residence or his household. Burrill.

3. (Law)

Defn: Any court of justice.

4. The Roman See in its temporal aspects, including all the machinery
of administration; -- called also curia Romana.

CURIAL
Cu"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the papal curia; as, the curial etiquette
of the Vatican. -- n.

Defn: A member of a curia, esp. of that of Rome or the later Italian
sovereignties.

CURIALISM
Cu"ri*a*lism (k"r--lz'm), n.

Defn: The wiew or doctrins of the ultramontane party in the Latin
Church. Gladstone.

CURIALIST
Cu"ri*a*list (k"r--lst), n.

Defn: One who belongs to the ultramontane party in the Latin Church.
Shipley.

CURIALISTIC
Cu`ri*a*lis"tic (-ls"tk), a. Etym: [L.curialis belonging to the
imperial court, fr. curia, LL., also, counselors and retinue of a
king.]

1. Pertaining to a court.

2. Relating or belonging to the ultramonate party in the Latin
Church.

CURIALITY
Cu`ri*al"i*ty (-l"-t), n. Etym: [Cf. LL. curialitas courtesy, fr.
curialis.]

Defn: The privileges, prerogatives, or retinue of a court. [Obs.]
Bacon.

CURIET
Cu"ri*et (k"r-t), n.

Defn: A cuirass. [Obs.] Spenser.

CURING
Cur"ing (kr"ng),

Defn: p. a. & vb. n. of Cure. Curing house, a building in which
anything is cured; especially, in the West Indies, a building in
which sugar is drained and dried.

CURIO
Cu"ri*o (k"r-), n.; pl.Curios (-. Etym: [Abbreviation of curiosity.]

Defn: Any curiosity or article of virtu.
The busy world, which does not hunt poets as collectors hunt for
curios. F. Harrison.

CURIOLOGIC
Cu`ri*o*log"ic (--lj"k), a. Etym: [Gr. Cyriologic.]

Defn: Pertaining to a rude kind of hieroglyphics, in which a thing is
represented by its picture instead of by a symbol.

CURIOSITY
Cu`ri*os"i*ty (k`r-s"-t), n.; pl. Curiosities (-t. Etym: [OE.
curiouste, curiosite, OF. curioseté, curiosité, F. curiosit, fr. L.
curiositas, fr. curiosus. See Currious, and cf. Curio.]

1. The state or quality or being curious; nicety; accuracy;
exactness; elaboration. [Obs.] Bacon.
When thou wast in thy gilt and thy perfume, they mocked thee for too
much curiosity. Shak.
A screen accurately cut in tapiary work . . . with great curiosity.
Evelin.

2. Disposition to inquire, investigate, or seek after knowledge; a
desire to gratify the mind with new information or objects of
interest; inquisitiveness. Milton.

3. That which is curious, or fitted to excite or reward attention.
We took a ramble together to see the curiosities of this great town.
Addison.
There hath been practiced also a curiosity, to set a tree upon the
north side of a wall, and, at a little hieght, to draw it through the
wall, etc. Bacon.

CURIOSO
Cu`ri*o"so (k`r-"z or k`r-"s), n.; pl. Curiosos (-zor -s. Etym: [It.
See Curious.]

Defn: A virtuoso.

CURIOUS
Cu"ri*ous (k"r-s), a. Etym: [OF. curios, curius, F. curieux, L.
curiosus careful, inquisitive, fr. cura care. See Cure.]

1. Difficult to please or satisfy; solicitous to be correct; careful;
scrupulous; nice; exact. [Obs.]
Little curious in her clothes. Fuller.
How shall we, If he be curious, work upon his faith Bean &

2. Exhibiting care or nicety; artfully constructed; elaborate;
wrought with elegance or skill.
To devise curious works. Ex. xxxv. 32
His body couched in a curious bed. Shak.

3. Careful or anxious to learn; eager for knowledge; given to
research or inquiry; habitually inquisitive; prying; -- sometimes
with after or of.
It is a picurious after things that were elegant and beatiful should
not have been as curious as to their origin, their uses, and their
natural history. Woodward.

4. Exciting attention or inquiry; awakening surprise; inviting and
rewarding inquisitiveness; not simple or plain; strange; rare.
"Acurious tale" Shak.
A multitude of curious analogies. Mocaulay.
Many a quaint and curiousvolume of forgotten lore. E. A. Poe.
Abstruse investigations in recondite branches of learning or sciense
often bring to light curious results. C. J. Smith.
Curious arts, magic. [Obs.]
Many . . . which used curious arts brought their books together, and
burned them. Acts xix. 19.

Syn.
 -- Inquisitive; prying. See Inquisitive.

CURIOUSLY
Cu"ri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a curious manner.

CURIOUSNESS
Cu"ri*ous*ness, n.

1. Carefulness; painstaking. [Obs.]
My father's care With curiousness and cost did train me up.
Massinger.

2. The state of being curious; exactness of workmanship; ingenuity of
contrivance.

3. Inquisitiveness; curiosity.

CURL
Curl (krl), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Curled (krld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Curling.] Etym: [Akin to D. krullen, Dan. kr, dial. Sw. krulla to
curl, crisp; possibly akin to E. crook. Cf. Curl, n., Cruller.]

1. To twist or form into ringlets; to crisp, as the hair.
But curl their locks with bodkins and with braid. Cascoigne.

2. To twist or make onto coils, as a serpent's body.
Of his tortuous train, Curled many a wanton wreath in sight of Eve.
Milton.

3. To deck with, or as with, curls; to ornament.
Thicker than the snaky locks That curledMegæra. Milton.
Curling with metaphors a plain intention. Herbert.

4. To raise in waves or undulations; to ripple.
Seas would be pools without the brushing air To curl the waves.
Dryden.

5. (Hat Making)

Defn: To shape (the brim) into a curve.

CURL
Curl, v. i.

1. To contract or bend into curis or ringlets, as hair; to grow in
curls or spirals, as a vine; to be crinkled or contorted; to have a
curly appearance; as, leaves lie curled on the ground.
Thou seest it [hair] will not curl by nature. Shak.

2. To move in curves, spirals, or undulations; to contract in curving
outlines; to bend in a curved form; to make a curl or curls. "Cirling
billows." Dryden.
Then round her slender waist he curled. Dryden.
Curling smokes from village tops are seen. Pope.
Gayly curl the waves before each dashing prow. Byron.
He smiled a king of sickly smile, and curled up on the floor. Bret
Harte.
. 358

3. To play at the game called curling. [Scot.]

CURL
Curl (krl), n. Etym: [Akin to D. krul, Dan. kr. See Curl, v. ]

1. A ringlet, especially of hair; anything of a spiral or winding
form.
Under a coronet, his flowing hair In curls on either cheek played.
Milton.

2. An undulating or waving line or streak in any substance, as wood,
glass, etc.; flexure; sinuosity.
If the glass of the prisms . . . be without those numberless waves or
curls which usually arise from the sand holes. Sir I. Newton.

3. A disease in potatoes, in which the leaves, at their first
appearance, seem curled and shrunken. Blue curls. (Bot.) See under
Blue.

CURLED
Curled (lrld), a.

Defn: Having curls; curly; sinuous; wavy; as, curled maple (maple
having fibers which take a sinnuous course). Curled hair (Com.), the
hair of the manes and tails of horses, prepared for upholstery
purposes. McElrath.

CURLEDNESS
Curl"ed*ness, n.

Defn: State of being curled; curliness.

CURLER
Curl"er (-r), n.

1. One who, or that which, curls.

2. A player at the game called curling. Burns.

CURLEW
Cur"lew (kr"l), n. Etym: [F. courlieu, corlieu, courlis; perh. of
imitative origin, but cf. OF. corlieus courier; L. currere to run +
levis light.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wading bird of the genus Numenius, remarkable for its long,
slender, curved bill.

Note: The common European curlew is N. arquatus. The long-billed (N.
longirostris), the Hudsonian (N. Hudsonicus), and the Eskimo curlew
(N. borealis, are American species. The name is said to imitate the
note of the European species. Curlew Jack (Zoöl.) the whimbrel or
lesser curlew.
 -- Curlew sandpiper (Zoöl.), a sandpiper (Tringa ferruginea, or
subarquata), common in Europe, rare in America, resembling a curlew
in having a long, curved bill. See Illustation in Appendix.

CURLINESS
Curl"i*ness (krl"-ns), n.

Defn: State of being curly.

CURLING
Curl"ing, n.

1. The act or state of that which curls; as, the curling of smoke
when it rises; the curling of a ringlet; also, the act or process of
one who curls something, as hair, or the brim of hats.

2. A scottish game in which heavy weights of stone or iron are
propelled by hand over the ice towards a mark.
Curling . . . is an amusement of the winter, and played on the ice,
by sliding from one mark to another great stones of 40 to 70 pounds
weight, of a hemispherical form, with an iron or wooden handle at
top. The object of the player is to lay his stone as near to the mark
as possible, to guard that of his partner, which has been well laid
before, or to strike off that of his antagonist. Pennant (Tour in
Scotland. 1772).
Curling irons, Curling tong, an instrument for curling the hair; --
commonly heated when used.

CURLINGLY
Curl"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With a curl, or curls.

CURLY
Curl"y (krl"), a.

Defn: Curling or tending to curl; having curls; full of ripples;
crinkled.

CURLYCUE
Curl"y*cue (krl"-k), n. Etym: [Cf. F. caracole.]

Defn: Some thing curled or spiral,, as a flourish made with a pen on
paper, or with skates on the ice; a trick; a frolicsome caper.
[Sometimes written carlicue.] [ Colloq. U.S.] To cut a curlycue, to
make a flourish; to cut a caper.
I gave a flourishing about the room and cut a curlycue with my right
foot. McClintock.

CURMUDGEON
Cur*mudg"eon (kr-mj"n), n. Etym: [OE. cornmudgin, where -mudgin is
prob. from OF. muchier, mucier, F. musser to hide; of uncertain
origin; cf. OE. muchares skulking thieves, E. miche, micher.]

Defn: An avaricious, grasping fellow; a miser; a niggard; a churl.
A gray-headed curmudgeon of a negro. W. Irving.

CURMUDGEONLY
Cur*mudg"eon*ly, a.

Defn: Like a curmudgeon; niggardly; churlish; as, a curmudgeonly
fellow.

CURMURRING
Cur*mur"ring (kr-mr"rng), n.

Defn: Murmuring; grumbling; -- sometimes applied to the rumbling
produced by a slight attack of the gripes. [Scot.] Burns.

CURR
Curr (kr), v. i. Etym: [Prob. imitative.]

Defn: To coo. [Scot.]
The owlets hoot, the owlets curr. Wordsworth.

CURRANT
Cur"rant (kr"rant), n. Etym: [F. corinthe (raisins de Corinthe
raisins of Corinth) currant (in sense 1), from the city of Corinth in
Greece, whence, probably, the small dried grape (1) was first
imported, the Ribes fruit (2) receiving the name from its resemblance
to that grape.]

1. A small kind of seedless raisin, imported from the Levant, chiefly
from Zante and Cephalonia; -- used in cookery.

2. The acid fruit or berry of the Ribes rubrum or common red currant,
or of its variety, the white currant.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A shrub or bush of several species of the genus Ribes (a genus
also including the gooseberry); esp., the Ribes rubrum. Black
currant,a shrub or bush (Ribes nigrum and R. floridum) and its black,
strong-flavored, tonic fruit.
 -- Cherry currant, a variety of the red currant, having a strong,
symmetrical bush and a very large berry.
 -- Currant borer (Zoöl.), the larva of an insect that bores into the
pith and kills currant bushes; specif., the larvae of a small
clearwing moth (Ægeria tipuliformis) and a longicorn beetle
(Psenocerus supernotatus).
 -- Currant worm (Zoöl.), an insect larva which eats the leaves or
fruit of the currant. The most injurious are the currant sawfly
(Nematus ventricosus), introduced from Europe, and the spanworm
(Eufitchia ribearia). The fruit worms are the larva of a fly (Epochra
Canadensis), and a spanworm (Eupithecia).
 -- Flowering currant, Missouri currant, a species of Ribes (R.
aureum), having showy yellow flowers.

CURRENCY
Cur"ren*cy (kr"rn-c), n.; pl. Currencies (-s. Etym: [Cf. LL.
currentia a current, fr. L. currens, p. pr. of currere to run. See
Current.]

1. A continued or uninterrupted course or flow like that of a sream;
as, the currency of time. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

2. The state or quality of being current; general acceptance or
reception; a passing from person to person, or from hand to hand;
circulation; as, a report has had a long or general currency; the
currency of bank notes.

3. That which is in circulation, or is given and taken as having or
representing value; as, the currency of a country; a specie currency;
esp., government or bank notes circulating as a substitute for
metallic money.

4. Fluency; readiness of utterance. [Obs.]

5. Current value; general estimation; the rate at which anything is
generally valued.
He . . . takes greatness of kingdoms according to their bulk and
currency, and not after intrinsic value. Bacon.
The bare name of Englishman . . . too often gave a transient currency
to the worthless and ungrateful. W. Irving.

CURRENT
Cur"rent (kr"rent), a. Etym: [OE. currant, OF. curant, corant, p. pr.
of curre, corre, F. courre, courir, to run, from L. currere; perh.
akin to E. horse. Cf. Course, Concur, Courant, Coranto.]

1. Running or moving rapidly. [Archaic]
Like the current fire, that renneth Upon a cord. Gower.
To chase a creature that was current then In these wild woods, the
hart with golden horns. Tennyson.

2. Now passing, as time; as, the current month.

3. Passing from person to person, or from hand to hand; circulating
through the community; generally received; common; as, a current
coin; a current report; current history.
That there was current money in Abraham's time is past doubt.
Arbuthnot.
Your fire-new stamp of honor is scarce current. Shak.
His current value, which is less or more as men have occasion for
him. Grew.

4. Commonly estimated or acknowledged.

5. Fitted for general acceptance or circulation; authentic; passable.
O Buckingham, now do I play the touch To try if thou be current gold
indeed. Shak.
Account current. See under Account.
 -- Current money, lawful money. Abbott.

CURRENT
Cur"rent, n. Etym: [Cf. F. courant. See Current, a. ]

1. A flowing or passing; onward motion. Hence: A body of fluid moving
continuously in a certain direction; a stream; esp., the swiftest
part of it; as, a current of water or of air; that which resembles a
stream in motion; as, a current of electricity.
Two such silver currents, when they join, Do glorify the banks that
bound them in. Shak.
The surface of the ocean is furrowed by currents, whose direction . .
. the navigator should know. Nichol.

2. General course; ordinary procedure; progressive and connected
movement; as, the current of time, of events, of opinion, etc.
Current meter, an instrument for measuring the velocity, force, etc.,
of currents.
 -- Current mill, a mill driven by a current wheel.
 -- Current wheel, a wheel dipping into the water and driven by the
current of a stream or by the ebb and flow of the tide.

Syn.
 -- Stream; course. See Stream.

CURRENTLY
Cur"rent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a current manner; generally; commonly; as, it is currently
believed.

CURRENTNESS
Cur"rent*ness, n.

1. The quality of being current; currency; circulation; general
reception.

2. Easiness of pronunciation; fluency. [Obs.]
When currentness [combineth] with staidness, how can the language . .
. sound other than most full of sweetness Camden.

CURRICLE
Cur"ri*cle (kr"r-k'l), n. Etym: [L.curriculum a running, a race
course, fr. currere to run. See Current, and cf. Curriculum.]

1. A small or short course.
Upon a curricle in this world depends a long course of the next. Sir
T. Browne.

2. A two-wheeled chaise drawn by two horses abreast.

CURRICULUM
Cur*ric"u*lum (kr-rk"-lm), n.; pl. E. Curriculums (-lCurricula (-l.
Etym: [L. See Curricle.]

1. A race course; a place for running.

2. A course; particularly, a specified fixed course of study, as in a
university.

CURRIE
Cur"rie (kr"r), n. & v.

Defn: See 2d & 3d Curry.

CURRIED
Cur"ried (-r, p.a. Etym: [See Curry, v. t., and Curry, n.]

1. Dressed by currying; cleaned; prepared.

2. Prepared with curry; as, curried rice, fowl, etc.

CURRIER
Cur"ri*er (k"r-r), n. Etym: [From 1st Curry.]

Defn: One who curries and dresses leather, after it is tanned.

CURRISH
Cur"rish (kr"rsh), a. Etym: [From Cur.]

Defn: Having the qualities, or exhibiting the characteristics, of a
cur; snarling; quarrelsome; snappish; churlish; hence, also
malicious; malignant; brutal.
Thy currish spirit Governed a wolf. Shak.
Some currish plot, -- some trick. Lockhart.
-- Cur"rish*ly, adv.
 -- Cur"rish*ness, n.

CURRY
Cur"ry (kr"r), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Curried (-rd); p.pr. & vb. n.
Currying.] Etym: [OE. curraien, curreien, OF. cunreer, correier, to
prepare, arrange, furnish, curry (a horse), F. corroyer to curry
(leather) (cf. OF. conrei, conroi, order, arrangement, LL.
conredium); cor- (L.com-) + roi, rei, arrangement, order; prob. of
German origin, and akin to E. ready. See Ready, Greith, and cf.
Corody, Array.]

1. To dress or prepare for use by a process of scraping, cleansing,
beating, smoothing, and coloring; -- said of leather.

2. To dress the hair or coat of (a horse, ox, or the like) with a
currycomb and brush; to comb, as a horse, in order to make clean.
Your short horse is soon curried. Beau. & FL.

3. To beat or bruise; to drub; -- said of persons.
I have seen him curry a fellow's carcass handsomely. Beau. & FL.
To curry favor, to seek to gain favor by flattery or attentions. See
Favor, n.

CURRY
Cur"ry, n. Etym: [Tamil kari.] [Written also currie.]

1. (Cookery)

Defn: A kind of sauce much used in India, containing garlic, pepper,
ginger, and other strong spices.

2. A stew of fowl, fish, or game, cooked with curry. Curry powder
(Cookery), a condiment used for making curry, formed of various
materials, including strong spices, as pepper, ginger, garlic,
coriander seed, etc.

CURRY
Cur"ry (kr"r), v. t.

Defn: To flavor or cook with curry.

CURRYCOMB
Cur"ry*comb` (kr"r-km`), n.

Defn: A kind of card or comb having rows of metallic teeth or
serrated ridges, used in curryng a horse.

CURRYCOMB
Cur"ry*comb`, v. t.

Defn: To comb with a currycomb.

CURSE
Curse (krs), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Cursed (krst) or Curst; p. pr. & vb.
n. Cursing.] Etym: [AS. cursian, corsian, perh. of Scand. origin; cf.
Dan. korse to make the sign of the cross, Sw. korsa, fr. Dan. & Sw.
kors cross, Icel kross, all these Scand. words coming fr. OF. crois,
croiz, fr. L. crux cross. Cf. Cross.]

1. To call upon divine or supernatural power to send injury upon; to
imprecate evil upon; to execrate.
Thou shalt not . . . curse the ruler of thy people. Ex. xxii. 28.
Ere sunset I'll make thee curse the deed. Shak.

2. To bring great evil upon; to be the cause of serious harm or
unhappiness to; to furnish with that which will be a cause of deep
trouble; to afflict or injure grievously; to harass or torment.
On impious realms and barbarous kings impose Thy plagues, and curse
'em with such sons as those. Pope.
To curse by bell, book, and candle. See under Bell.

CURSE
Curse, v. i.

Defn: To utter imprecations or curses; to affirm or deny with
imprecations; to swear.
Then began he to curse and to swear. Matt. xxi. 74.
His spirits hear me, And yet I need must curse. Shak.

CURSE
Curse, n. Etym: [AS. curs. See Curse, v. t.]

1. An invocation of, or prayer for, harm or injury; malediction.
Lady, you know no rules of charity, Which renders good for bad,
blessings for curses. Shak.

2. Evil pronounced or invoked upon another, solemnly, or in passion;
subjection to, or sentence of, divine condemnation.
The priest shall write these curses in a book. Num. v. 23.
Curses, like chickens, come home to roost. Old Proverb.

3. The cause of great harm, evil, or misfortune; that which brings
evil or severe affliction; torment.
The common curse of mankind, folly and ignorance. Shak.
All that I eat, or drink, or shall beget, Is propagated curse.
Milton.
The curse of Scotland (Card Playing), the nine of diamonds.
 -- Not worth a curse. See under Cress.

Syn.
 -- Malediction; imprecation; execration. See Malediction.

CURSED
Curs"ed (krs"d), a.

Defn: Deserving a curse; execrable; hateful; detestable; abominable.
Let us fly this cursed place. Milton.
This cursed quarrel be no more renewed. Dryden.

CURSEDLY
Curs"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cursed manner; miserably; in a manner to be detested;
enormously. [Low]

CURSEDNESS
Curs"ed*ness, n.

1. The state of being under a curse or of being doomed to execration
or to evil.

2. Wickedness; sin; cursing. Chaucer.

3. Shrewishness. "My wife's cursedness." Chaucer.

CURSER
Curs"er (krs"r), n.

Defn: One who curses.

CURSHIP
Cur"ship (kr"shp), n. Etym: [Cur +-ship.]

Defn: The state of being a cur; one who is currish. [Jocose]
How durst he, I say, oppose thy curship! Hudibras.

CURSITATING
Cur"si*ta`ting (kr"s-t`tng), a. Etym: [See Cursitor.]

Defn: Moving about slightly. [R.] H. Bushnell.

CURSITOR
Cur"si*tor (kr"s-tr), n. Etym: [LL. cursitor, equiv. to L. cursor,
fr. cursare to run hither and thither, fr. currere to run. See
Current, and cf. Cursor.]

1. A courier or runner. [Obs.] "Cursitors to and fro." Holland.

2. (Eng.Law)

Defn: An officer in the Court of Chancery, whose business is to make
out original writs.

CURSIVE
Cur"sive (kr"sv), a. Etym: [LL. cursivus: cf. F. cursif See
Cursitor.]

Defn: Running; flowing. Cursive hand,a running handwriting.

CURSIVE
Cur"sive, n.

1. A character used in cursive writing.

2. A manuscript, especially of the New Testament, written in small,
connected characters or in a running hand; -- opposed to uncial.
Shipley.

CURSOR
Cur"sor (kr"sr), n. Etym: [L., a runner. See Cursitor.]

Defn: Any part of a mathematical instrument that moves or slides
backward and forward upon another part.

CURSORARY
Cur"so*ra*ry (-s-r-r), a.

Defn: Cursory; hasty. [Obs.]
With a cursorary eye o'erglanced the articles. Shak.

CURSORES
Cur*so"res (kr-s"rEz), n. pl. Etym: [L. cursor, pl. cursores, a
runner.] (Zoöl.)
(a) An order of running birds including the ostrich, emu, and allies;
the Ratitaæ.
(b) A group of running spiders; the wolf spiders.

CURSORIAL
Cur*so"ri*al (kr-s"r-al), a. (Zoöl.)
(a) Adapted to running or walking, and not to prehension; as, the
limbs of the horse are cursorial. See Illust. of Aves.
(b) Of or pertaining to the Cursores.

CURSORILY
Cur"so*ri*ly (kr"s-r-l), adv.

Defn: In a running or hasty manner; carelessly.

CURSORINESS
Cur"so*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being cursory; superficial performance; as,
cursoriness of view.

CURSORY
Cur"so*ry (kr"s-r), a. Etym: [L. cursorius, fr. cursor. See Cursor.]

1. Running about; not stationary. [Obs.]

2. Characterized by haste; hastily or superficially performed;
slight; superficial; careless.
Events far too important to be treated in a cursory manner. Hallam.

CURST
Curst (krst),

Defn: imp. & p.p. of Curse.

CURST
Curst, a. Etym: [SeeCurse.]

Defn: Froward; malignant; mischievous; malicious; snarling. [Obs.]
Though his mind Be ne'er so curst, his tonque is kind. Crashaw.

CURSTFULLY
Curst"ful*ly (-fl-l), adv.

Defn: Peevishly; vexatiously; detestably. [Obs.] "Curstfully mad."
Marston.

CURSTNESS
Curst"ness (krst"ns), n.

Defn: Peevishness; malignity; frowardness; crabbedness; surliness.
[Obs.] Shak.

CURT
Curt (krt), a. Etym: [L. curtus; cf. Skr. kart to cut. Cf. Curtail.]

Defn: Characterized by exessive brevity; short; rudely concise; as,
curt limits; a curt answer.
The curt, yet comprehensive reply. W. Irving.

CURTAIL
Cur*tail" (kr-tl"), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Curtailed (-tld"); p.pr. &
vb.n. Curtailing.] Etym: [See Curtal.]

Defn: To cut off the end or tail, or any part, of; to shorten; to
abridge; to diminish; to reduce.
I, that am curtailed of this fair proportion. Shak.
Our incomes have been curtailed; his salary has been doubled.
Macualay.

CURTAIL
Cur"tail (kr"tl), n.

Defn: The scroll termination of any architectural member, as of a
step, etc.

CURTAIL DOG
Cur"tail dog` (d.

Defn: A dog with a docked tail; formerly, the dog of a person not
qualified to course, which, by the forest laws, must have its tail
cut short, partly as a mark, and partly from a notion that the tail
is necessary to a dog in running; hence, a dog not fit for sporting.
Hope is a curtail dog in some affairs. Shak.

CURTAILER
Cur*tail"er (kr-tl"r), n.

Defn: One who curtails.

CURTAILMENT
Cur*tail"ment (kr-tl"ment), n.

Defn: The act or result of curtailing or cutting off. Bancroft.

CURTAIN
Cur"tain (kr"tn; 48), n. Etym: [OE.cortin, curtin,fr. OF. cortine,
curtine, F. courtine, LL. cortina, curtian (in senses 1 and 2), also,
small court, small inclosure surrounded by walls, from cortis court.
See Court.]

1. A hanging screen intended to darken or conceal, and admitting of
being drawn back or up, and reclosed at pleasure; esp., drapery of
cloth or lace hanging round a bed or at a window; in theaters, and
like places, a movable screen for concealing the stage.

2. (Fort.)

Defn: That part of the rampart and parapet which is between two
bastions or two gates. See Illustrations of Ravelin and Bastion.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: That part of a wall of a building which is between two
pavilions, towers, etc.

4. A flag; an ensign; -- in contempt. [Obs.] Shak. Behind the
curtain, in concealment; in secret.
 -- Curtain lecture, a querulous lecture given by a wife to her
husband within the bed curtains, or in bed. Jerrold.
A curtain lecture is worth all the sermons in the world for teaching
the virtues of patience and long-suffering. W. Irving.
-- The curtain falls, the performance closes.
 -- The curtain rises, the performance begins.
 -- To draw the curtain, to close ot over an object, or to remove it;
hence: (a) To hide or to disclose an object. (b) To commence or close
a performance.
 -- To drop the curtain, to end the tale, or close the performance.

CURTAIN
Cur"tain, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Curtained (-tnd; 48); p. pr. & vb. n.
Curtaining.]

Defn: To inclose as with curtains; to furnish with curtains.
So when the sun in bed Curtained with cloudy red. Milton.

CURTAL
Cur"tal (kr"tal), a. Etym: [OF. courtault, F. courtaud, having a
docked tail (cf. It. cortaldo), fr. court short, L. curtus. See Curt,
and Curtail.]

Defn: Curt; brief; laconic.
Essays and curtal aphorisms. Milton.
Curtal dog. See Curtail dog.

CURTAL
Cur"tal, n.

Defn: A horse with a docked tail; hence, anything cut short. [Obs]
Nares.

CURTAL AX; CURTLE AX; CURTELASSE
Cur"tal ax`, Cur"tle ax`, Curte"lasse (krt"las).

Defn: A corruption of Cutlass.

CURTAL FRIAR
Cur"tal fri`ar (fr`r).

Defn: A friar who acted as porter at the gate of a monastery. Sir W.
Scott.

CURTANA
Cur*ta"na (kr-t"n), n.

Defn: The pointless sword carried before English monarchs at their
coronation, and emblematically considered as the sword of mercy; --
also called the sword of Edward the Confessor.

CURTATE
Cur"tate (kr"tt), a. Etym: [L. curtatus, p.p. of curtare to shorten,
fr. curtus. See Curt.] (Astron.)

Defn: Shortened or reduced; -- said of the distance of a planet from
the sun or earth, as measured in the plane of the ecliptic, or the
distance from the sun or earth to that point where a perpendicular,
let fall from the planet upon the plane of the ecliptic, meets the
ecliptic. Curtate cycloid. (Math.) See Cycloid.

CURTATION
Cur*ta"tion (kr-t"shn), n. (Astron.)

Defn: The interval by which the curtate distance of a planet is less
than the true distance.

CURTEIN
Cur*tein" (kr-tn"), n.

Defn: Same as Curtana.

CURTES
Cur*tes" (kr-ts"), a.

Defn: Courteous. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CURTESY
Cur"te*sy (kr"t-s), n.; pl. Curtesies (-s. Etym: [Either fr.
courlesy, the lands being held as it were by favor; or fr. court (LL.
curtis), the husband being regarded as holding the lands as a vassal
of the court. See Court, Courtesy.] (Law)

Defn: the life estate which a husband has in the lands of his
deceased wife, which by the common law takes effect where he has had
issue by her, born alive, and capable of inheriting the lands. Mozley
& W.

CURTILAGE
Cur"ti*lage (k, n. Etym: [OF. cortillage, curtillage, fr. cortil
court, courtyard, LL. cortis court. See Court.] (Law)

Defn: A yard, courtyard, or piece of ground, included within the
fence surrounding a dwelling house. Burrill.

CURTLY
Curt"ly (krt"l), adv.

Defn: In a curt manner.

CURTNESS
Curt"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of bing curt.

CURTSY
Curt"sy (krt"s), n.

Defn: Same as Courtesy, an act of respect.

CURULE
Cu"rule (k"rl), a. Etym: [L. curulis, fr. currus a charoit: cf. F.
curule.]

1. Of or pertaining to a charoit.

2. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a kind of chair appropriated to Roman
magistrates and dignitaries; pertaining to, having, or conferring,
the right to sit in the curule chair; hence, official.

Note: The curule chair was usually shaped like a camp stool, and
provided with curved legs. It was at first ornamented with ivory, and
later sometimes made of ivory and inlaid with gold. Curule dignity
right of sitting in the curule chair.

CURURO
Cu*ru"ro (k-r"r), n. Etym: [Chilian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A Chilian burrowing rodent of the genus Spalacopus.

CURVAL; CURVANT
Cur"val (kr"val), Cur"vant (-vant), a. Etym: [L. curvans, p. pr. ]
(Her.)

Defn: Bowed; bent; curved.

CURVATE; CURVATED
Cur"vate (kr"vt), Cur"va*ted (-v-td), a. Etym: [L. curvatus p. p. of
curvare to curve, fr. curvus. See Curve.]

Defn: Bent in a regular form; curved.

CURVATION
Cur*va"tion (kr-v"shn), n. Etym: [L. curvatio.]

Defn: The act of bending or crooking.

CURVATIVE
Cur"va*tive (kr"v-tv), a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the margins only a little curved; -- said of leaves.
Henslow.

CURVATURE
Cur"va*ture (kr"v-tr; 135), n. Etym: [L. curvatura. See Curvate.]

1. The act of curving, or the state of being bent or curved; a
curving or bending, normal or abnormal, as of a line or surface from
a rectilinear direction; a bend; a curve. Cowper.
The elegant curvature of their fronds. Darwin.

2. (Math.)

Defn: The amount of degree of bending of a mathematical curve, or the
tendency at any point to depart from a tangent drawn to the curve at
that point. Aberrancy of curvature (Geom.), the deviation of a curve
from a curcular form. -Absolute curvature. See under Absolute.
 -- Angle of curvature (Geom.), one that expresses the amount of
curvature of a curve.
 -- Chord of curvature. See under Chord.
 -- Circle of curvature. See Osculating circle of a curve, under
Circle.
 -- Curvature of the spine (Med.), an abnormal curving of the spine,
especially in a lateral direction.
 -- Radius of curvature, the radius of the circle of curvature, or
osculatory circle, at any point of a curve.

CURVE
Curve (krv), a. Etym: [L. curvus bent, curved. See Cirb.]

Defn: Bent without angles; crooked; curved; as, a curve line; a curve
surface.

CURVE
Curve, n. Etym: [See Curve, a., Cirb.]

1. A bending without angles; that wcich is bent; a flexure; as, a
curve in a railway or canal.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: A line described according to some low, and having no finite
portion of it a straight line. Axis of a curve. See under Axis.
 -- Curve of quickest descent. See Brachystochrone.
 -- Curve tracing (Math.), the process of determining the shape,
location, singular points, and other perculiarities of a curve from
its equation.
 -- Plane curve (Geom.), a curve such that when a plane passes
through three points of the curve, it passes through all the other
points of the curve. Any other curve is called a curve of double
curvature, or a twisted curve.

CURVE
Curve, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Curved (krvd); p. pr. & vb. n. Curving.]
Etym: [L. curvare., fr. curvus. See Curve, a., Curb.]

Defn: To bend; to crook; as, to curve a line; to curve a pipe; to
cause to swerve from a straight course; as, to curve a ball in
pitching it.

CURVE
Curve, v. i.

Defn: To bend or turn gradually from a given direction; as, the road
curves to the right.

CURVEDNESS
Curv"ed*ness (-d-ns), n.

Defn: The state of being curved.

CURVET
Cur"vet (kr"vt or kr-vt"; 277), n. Etym: [OE. corvet, It.corvetta:
cf. F. courbette. See Curve, and cf. Corvetto.]

1. (Man.)

Defn: A particular leap of a horse, when he raises both his fore legs
at once, equally advanced, and, as his fore legs are falling, raises
his hind legs, so that all his legs are in the air at once.

2. A prank; a frolic.

CURVET
Cur"vet, v. i. [imp. & p.p. Curveted or -vetted; p.pr. & vb. n.
Curveting or -vetting.] Etym: [Cf. It. corvettare. See Curvet, n.]

1. To make a curvet; to leap; to bound. 'Oft and high he did curvet."
Drayton.

2. To leap and frisk; to frolic. Shak.

CURVET
Cur"vet, v. t.

Defn: To cause to curvet. Landor.

CURVICAUDATE
Cur`vi*cau"date (kr`v-k"dt), a. Etym: [L. curvus bent + E. caudate.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a curved or crooked tail.

CURVICOSTATE
Cur`vi*cos"tate (kr`v-ks"tt), a. Etym: [L. curvus + E. costate.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having bent ribs.

CURVIDENTATE
Cur`vi*den"tate (kr`v-dn"tt), a. Etym: [L. curvus + E. dentate.]

Defn: Having curved teeth.

CURVIFORM
Cur"vi*form (kr"v-frm), a. Etym: [L. curvus + -form.]

Defn: Having a curved form.

CURVILINEAD
Cur`vi*lin"e*ad (kr`v-ln"-d), n. (Geom.)

Defn: An instrument for drawing curved lines.

CURVILINEAL; CURVILINEAR
Cur`vi*lin"e*al (-al), Cur`vi*lin"e*ar (-r), a. Etym: [L. curvus bent
+ E. lineal, linear.]

Defn: Consisting of, or bounded by, curved lines; as, a curvilinear
figure.

CURVILINEARITY
Cur`vi*lin`e*ar"i*ty (-r"-t), n.

Defn: The state of being curvilinear or of being bounded by curved
lines.

CURVILINEARLY
Cur`vi*lin"e*ar*ly (-r-l), adv.

Defn: In a curvilinear manner.

CURVINERVED
Cur"vi*nerved` (-nrvd`), a. Etym: [L. curvus bent + E. nerve. ]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having the ribs or the veins of the leaves curved; -- called
also curvinervate and curve-veined.

CURVIROSTRAL
Cur`vi*ros"tral (-rs"tral), a. Etym: [L. curvus + E. rostral.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a crooked beak, as the crossbill.

CURVIROSTRES
Cur"vi*ros"tres (-rs"trz), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. curvus curved +
rostrum beak, rostrum.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of passerine birds, including the creepers and
nuthatches.

CURVISERIAL
Cur`vi*se"ri*al (-s"r-al), a. Etym: [L. curvus bent + E. serial.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Distributed in a curved line, as leaves along a stem.

CURVITY
Cur"vi*ty (kr"v-y), n. Etym: [L. curvitas, from curvus bent: cf. F.
curvité.]

Defn: The state of being curved; a bending in a regular form;
crookedness. Holder.

CURVOGRAPH
Cur"vo*graph (kr"v-grf), n. Etym: [L. curvus bent + -graph.] (Geom.)

Defn: An arcograph.

CUSCUS
Cus"cus, n. [The same word as Couscous, fr. F. couscous couscous, Ar.
kuskus.] (Bot.)

Defn: A soft grass (Pennisetum typhoideum) found in all tropical
regions, used as food for men and cattle in Central Africa.

CUSCUS OIL
Cuscus oil.

Defn: Same as Vetiver oil.

CUSHAT
Cush"at (ksh"t), n. Etym: [AS. cusceote.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ringdove or wood pigeon.
Scarce with cushat's homely song can vie. Sir W. Scott.

CUSHEWBIRD
Cush"ew*bird (ksh"-brd`), n. (Zoöl)

Defn: The galeated curassow. See Curassow.

CUSHION
Cush"ion (ksh"n), n. Etym: [OE. cuischun, quisshen, OF. coissin,
cuissin, F. coussin, fr. (assumed) LL. culcitinum, dim. of L. culcita
cushion, mattress, pillow. See Quilt, and cf. Counterpoint a
coverlet.]

1. A case or bag stuffed with some soft and elastic material, and
used to sit or recline upon; a soft pillow or pad.
Two cushions stuffed with straw, the seat to raise. Dryden.

2. Anything resembling a cushion in properties or use; as:
(a) a pad on which gilders cut gold leaf;
(b) a mass of steam in the end of the cylinder of a steam engine to
receive the impact of the piston;
(c) the elastic edge of a billiard table.

3. A riotous kind of dance, formerly common at weddings; -- called
also cushion dance. Halliwell. Cushion capital.(Arch.) A capital so
sculptured as to appear like a cushion pressed down by the weight of
its entablature. (b) A name given to a form of capital, much used in
the Romanesque style, modeled like a bowl, the upper part of which is
cut away on four sides, leaving vertical faces.
 -- Cushion star (Zoöl.) a pentagonal starfish belonging to
Goniaster, Astrogonium, and other allied genera; -- so called from
its form.

CUSHION
Cush"ion (ksh"n), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Cushioned (-nd); p. pr. & vb.
Cushioning.]

1. To seat or place on, or as on a cushion.
Many who are cushioned on thrones would have remained in obscurity.
Bolingbroke.

2. To furnish with cushions; as, to cushion a chaise.

3. To conceal or cover up, as under a cushion. Cushioned hammer, a
dead-stroke hammer. See under Dead-stroke.

CUSHIONET
Cush"ion*et (ksh"n-t), n. Etym: [OF. coissinet, F. coussinet. See
Cushion, and cf. Coussinet.]

Defn: A little cushion.

CUSHIONLESS
Cush"ion*less, a.

Defn: Hot furnished with a cushion.
Rows of long, cushionless benches, supplying the place of pews.
Hawthorne.

CUSHION TIRE
Cushion tire.

Defn: A thick solid-rubber tire, as for a bicycle, with a hollow
groove running lengthwise on the inside.

CUSHIONY
Cush"ion*y (-), a.

Defn: Like a cushion; soft; pliable.
A flat and cushiony noce. Dickens.

CUSHITE
Cush"ite (ksh"t), n.

Defn: A descendant of Cush, the son of Ham and grandson of Noah.

CUSK
Cusk (ksk), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, edible, marine fish (Brosmius brosme), allied to the
cod, common on the northern coasts of Europe and America; -- called
also tusk and torsk.

CUSKIN
Cus"kin (ks"kn), n.

Defn: A kind of drinking cup. [Obs.]

CUSP
Cusp (ksp), n. Etym: [L. cuspis, -idis, point, pointed end.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A triangular protection from the intrados of an arch, or from
an inner curve of tracery.

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: The beginning or first entrance of any house in the
calculations of nativities, etc.

3. (Astron)

Defn: The point or horn of the crescent moon or other crescent-shaped
luminary.

4. (Math.)

Defn: A multiple point of a curve at which two or more branches of
the curve have a common tangent.

5. (Anat.)

Defn: A prominence or point, especially on the crown of a tooth.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: A sharp and rigid point.

CUSP
Cusp, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Cusped (kspt); p.pr. & vb. n. Cusping.]

Defn: To furnish with a cusp or cusps.

CUSPATED
Cus"pa*ted (ks"p-td), a.

Defn: Ending in a point.

CUSPID
Cus"pid (ks"pd), n. Etym: [See Cusp.] (Anat.)

Defn: One of the canine teeth; -- so called from having but one point
or cusp on the crown. See Tooth.

CUSPIDAL
Cus"pi*dal (-p-dal), a. Etym: [From L. cuspis, cuspidis. See Cusp.]

Defn: Ending in a point.

CUSPIDATE
Cus"pi*date (-dt), v. t.

Defn: To make pointed or sharp.

CUSPIDATE; CUSPIDATED
Cus"pi*date (ks"p-dt), Cus"pi*da`ted (-d`td), a. Etym: [L.
cuspidatus, p.p. of cuspidare to make pointed, fr. cuspis. See Cusp.]

Defn: Having a sharp end, like the point of a spear; terminating in a
hard point; as, a cuspidate leaf.

CUSPIDOR
Cus"pi*dor (-dr), n. Etym: [Pg. cuspideria, fr. cuspir to spit.]

Defn: Any ornamental vessel used as a spittoon; hence, to avoid the
common term, a spittoon of any sort.

CUSPIS
Cus"pis (ks"ps), n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A point; a sharp end.

CUSSEDNESS
Cuss"ed*ness, n.  [Cussed (for cursed) + -ness.]

Defn: Disposition to willful wrongdoing; malignity; perversity;
cantankerousness; obstinacy. [Slang or Colloq., U. S.]

In her opinion it was all pure "cussedness."
Mrs. Humphry Ward.

Disputatiousness and perversity (what the Americans call
"cussedness").
James Bryce.

CUSTARD
Cus"tard (ks"trd), n. Etym: [Prob. the same word as OE. crustade,
crustate, a pie made with a crust, fr. L. crustatus covered with a
crust, p. p. of crustare, fr. crusta crust; cf. OF. croustade pasty,
It. crostata, or F. coutarde. See Crust, and cf. Crustated.]

Defn: A mixture of milk and eggs, sweetened, and baked or boiled.
Custard apple (Bot.), a low tree or shrub of tropical America,
including several species of Anona (A. squamosa, reticulata, etc.),
having a roundish or ovate fruit the size of a small orange,
containing a soft, yellowish, edible pulp.
 -- Custard coffin, pastry, or crust, which covers or coffins a
custard [Obs.] Shak.

CUSTODE
Cus"tode (ks"td), n. Etym: [F. or It. custode, fr. L. custos, -odis.]

Defn: See Custodian.

CUSTODIAL
Cus*to"di*al (ks-t"d-al), a. Etym: [Cf. F. custodial, fr. L.
custodia. See Custody.]

Defn: Relating to custody or guardianship.

CUSTODIAN
Cus*to"di*an (ks-t"d-an), n. Etym: [From Custody.]

Defn: One who has care or custody, as of some public building; a
keeper or superintendent.

CUSTODIANSHIP
Cus*to"di*an*ship, n.

Defn: Office or duty of a custodian.

CUSTODIER
Cus*to"di*er (-r), n. Etym: [Cf. LL. custodiarus.]

Defn: A custodian. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

CUSTODY
Cus"to*dy (ks"t-d), n. Etym: [L. custodia, fr. custos guard; prob.
akin to Gr. hide. Seee Hide to cover.]

1. A keeping or guarding; care, watch, inspection, for keeping,
preservation, or security.
A fleet of thirty ships for the custody of the narrow seas. Bacon.

2. Judicial or penal safe-keeping.
Jailer, take him to thy custody. Shak.

3. State of being guarded and watched to prevent escape; restraint of
liberty; confinement; imprisonment.
What pease will be given To us enslaved, but custody severe, And
stripes and arbitrary punishment Milton.

CUSTOM
Cus"tom (ks"tm), n. Etym: [OF. custume, costume, Anglo-Norman
coustome, F. coutume, fr. (assumed) LL. consuetumen custom, habit,
fr. L. consuetudo, -dinis, fr. consuescere to accustom, verb
inchoative fr. consuere to be accustomed; con- + suere to be
accustomed, prosuus one's own; akin to E. so, adv. Cf. Consuetude,
Costume.]

1. Frequent repetition of the same act; way of acting common to many;
ordinary manner; habitual practice; usage; method of doing or living.
And teach customs which are not lawful. Acts xvi. 21.
Moved beyong his custom, Gama said. Tennyson.
A custom More honored in the breach than the observance. Shak.

2. Habitual buying of goods; practice of frequenting, as a shop,
manufactory, etc., for making purchases or giving orders; business
support.
Let him have your custom, but not your votes. Addison.

3. (Law)

Defn: Long-established practice, considered as unwritten law, and
resting for authority on long consent; usage. See Usage, and
Prescription.

Note: Usage is a fact. Custom is a law. There can be no custom
without usage, though there may be usage without custom. Wharton.

4. Familiar aquaintance; familiarity. [Obs.]
Age can not wither her, nor custom stale Her infinite variety. Shak.
Custom of merchants, a system or code of customs by which affairs of
commerce are regulated.
 -- General customs, those which extend over a state or kingdom.
 -- Particular customs, those which are limited to a city or
district; as, the customs of London.

Syn.
 -- Practice; fashion. See Habit, and Usage.

CUSTOM
Cus"tom, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OF. costumer. Cf. Accustom.]

1. To make familiar; to accustom. [Obs.] Gray.

2. To supply with customers. [Obs.] Bacon.

CUSTOM
Cus"tom, v. i.

Defn: To have a custom. [Obs.]
On a bridge he custometh to fight. Spenser.

CUSTOM
Cus"tom, n. Etym: [OF. coustume, F. coutume, tax, i. e., the usual
tax. See 1st Custom.]

Defn: 1 the customary toll,tax, or tribute.
Render, therefore, to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute is due;
custom to whom custom. Rom. xiii. 7.

2. pl.

Defn: Duties or tolls imposed by law on commodities, imported or
exported.

CUSTOM
Cus"tom, v. t.

Defn: To pay the customs of. [Obs.] Marlowe.

CUSTOMABLE
Cus"tom*a*ble (--b'l), a. Etym: [Cf. OF. coustumable.]

1. Customary. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

2. Subject to the payment of customs; dutiable.

CUSTOMABLENESS
Cus"tom*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being customable; conformity to custom. [Obs.]

CUSTOMABLY
Cus"tom*a*bly, adv.

Defn: Usually. [Obs.] Milton.

CUSTOMARILY
Cus"tom*a*ri*ly (--r-l), adv.

Defn: In a customary manner; habitually.

CUSTOMARINESS
Cus"tom*a*ri*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being customary.

CUSTOMARY
Cus"tom*a*ry (ks"tm--r), a. Etym: [CF. OF. coustumier, F. coutumier.
See Custom, and cf. Customer.]

1. Agreeing with, or established by, custom; established by common
usage; conventional; habitual.
Even now I met him With customary compliment. Shak.
A formal customary attendance upon the offices. South.

2. (Law)

Defn: Holding or held by custom; as, customary tenants; customary
service or estate.

CUSTOMARY
Cus"tom*a*ry, n. Etym: [OF. coustumier, F. coutumier.]

Defn: A book containing laws and usages, or customs; as, the
Customary of the Normans. Cowell.

CUSTOMER
Cus"tom*er (ks"tm-r), n. Etym: [A doublet of customary, a.: cf. LL.
custumarius toll gatherer. See Custom.]

1. One who collect customs; a toll gatherer. [Obs.]
The customers of the small or petty custom and of the subsidy do
demand of them custom for kersey cloths. Hakluyt.

2. One who regularly or repeatedly makes purchases of a trader; a
purchaser; a buyer.
He has got at last the character of a good customer; by this means he
gets credit for something considerable, and then never pays for it.
Goldsmith.

3. A person with whom a business house has dealings; as, the
customers of a bank. J. A. H. Murray.

4. A peculiar person; -- in an indefinite sense; as, a queer
customer; an ugly customer. [Colloq.] Dickens.

5. A lewd woman. [Obs.] Shak.

CUSTOMHOUSE
Cus"tom*house" (-hous`), n.

Defn: The building where customs and duties are paid, and where
vessels are entered or cleared. Customhouse broker, an agent who acts
for merchants in the business of entering and clearing goods and
vessels.

CUSTOS
Cus"tos (ks"ts), n.; pl. Custodes (k. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A keeper; a custodian; a superintendent. [Obs.] Custos
rotulorum (r Etym: [LL., keeper of the rolls] (Eng. Law), the
principal justice of the peace in a county, who is also keeper of the
rolls and records of the sessions of the peace.

CUSTREL
Cus"trel (ks"trel), n Etym: [OF. coustillier. See Coistril.]

Defn: An armor-bearer to a knight. [Obs.]

CUSTREL
Cus"trel, n.

Defn: See Costrel. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

CUSTUMARY
Cus"tu*ma*ry (-t-m-r), a.

Defn: See Customary. [Obs.]

CUT
Cut (kt), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Cut; p.pr. & vb. n. Cutting.] Etym: [OE.
cutten, kitten, ketten; prob. of Celtic origin; cf. W. cwtau to
shorten, curtail, dock, cwta bobtailed, cwt tail, skirt, Gael.
cutaich to shorten, curtail, dock, cutach short, docked, cut a
bobtail, piece, Ir. cut a short tail, cutach bobtailed. Cf. Coot.]

1. To sparate the parts of with, or as with, a sharp instrument; to
make an incision in; to gash; to sever; to divide.
You must cut this flesh from off his breast. Shak.
Before the whistling winds the vessels fly, With rapid swiftness cut
the liquid way. Pope.

2. To sever and cause to fall for the purpose of gathering; to hew;
to mow or reap.
Thy servants can skill to cut timer. 2. Chron. ii. 8

3. To sever and remove by cutting; to cut off; to dock; as, to cut
the hair; to cut the nails.

4. To castrate or geld; as, to cut a horse.

5. To form or shape by cutting; to make by incision, hewing, etc.; to
carve; to hew out.
Why should a man. whose blood is warm within, Sit like his grandsire
cut in alabaster Shak.
Loopholes cut through thickest shade. Milton.

6. To wound or hurt deeply the snsibilities of; to pierce; to
lacerate; as, sarcasm cuts to the quick.
The man was cut to the heart. Addison.

7. To intersect; to cross; as, one line cuts another at right angles.

8. To refuse to recognize; to ignorre; as, to cut a person in the
street; to cut one's acquaintance. [Colloq.]

9. To absent one's self from; as, to cut an appointment, a
recitation. etc. [Colloq.]
An English tradesman is always solicitous to cut the shop whenever he
can do so with impunity. Thomas Hamilton.
To cut a caper. See under Caper.
 -- To cut the cards, to divide a pack of cards into portions, in
order to determine the deal or the trump, or to change the cards to
be dealt.
 -- To cut a dash or a figure, to make a display. [Colloq.] -- To cut
down. (a) To sever and cause to fall; to fell; to prostrate. "Timber
. . . cut down in the mountains of Cilicia." Knolles. (b) To put
down; to abash; to humble, [Obs] "So great is his natural eloquence,
that he cuts doun the finest orator." Addison (c) To lessen; to
retrench; to curtail; as, to cut down expenses. (d) (Naut.) To raze;
as, to cut down a frigate into a sloop.
 -- To cut the knot or the Gordian knot, to dispose of a difficulty
summarily; to solve it by prompt, arbitrary action, rather than by
skill or patience.
 -- To cut lots, to determine lots by cuttings cards; to draw lots.
 -- To cut off. (a) To sever; to separate.
I would to God, . . . The king had cut off my brother's. Shak.
(b) To put an untimely death; to put an end to; to destroy. "Irencut
off by martyrdom." Addison. (c) To interrupt; as, to cut off
communication; to cut off (the flow of) steam from (the boiler to) a
steam engine. (d) To intercept; as,, to cut off an enemy's retreat.
(e) To end; to finish; as, to cut off further debate.
 -- To cut out. (a) To remove by cutting or carving; as, to cut out a
piece from a board. (b) To shape or form by cutting; as, to cut out a
garment. " A large forest cut out into walks." Addison. (c) To
scheme; to contrive; to prepare; as, to cut out work for another day.
"Every man had cut out a place for himself." Addison. (d) To step in
and take the place of; to supplant; as, to cut out a rival. [Colloq.]
(e) To debar. "I am cut out from anything but common
acknowledgments." Pope. (f) To seize and carry off (a vessel) from a
harbor, or from under the guns of an enemy.
 -- To cut to pieces. (a) To cut into pieces; as, to cut cloth to
pieces. (b) To slaughter; as, to cut an army to pieces.
 -- To cut a play (Drama), to shorten it by leaving out passages, to
adapt it for the stage.
 -- To cut rates (Railroads, etc.), to reduce the charges for
transportation below the rates established between competing lines.
 -- To cut short, to arrest or check abruptly; to bring to a sudden
termination. "Achilles cut him short, and thus replied." Dryden.
 -- To cut stick, to make off clandestinely or precipitately. [Slang]
-- To cut teeth, to put forth teeth; to have the teeth pierce through
the gum and appear.
 -- To have cut one's eyeteeth, to be sharp and knowing. [Colloq.] --
To cut one's wisdom teeth, to come to years of discretion.
 -- To cut under, to undersell; as, to cut under a competitor in
trade.
 -- To cut up. (a) To cut to pieces; as, to cut up an animal, or
bushes. (b) To damage or destroy; to injure; to wound; as, to cut up
a book or its author by severe criticism. "This doctrine cuts up all
government by the roots." Locke. (c) To afflict; to discourage; to
demoralize; as, the death of his friend cut him up terribly.
[Colloq.] Thackeray.

CUT
Cut (kt), v. i.

1. To do the work of an edged tool; to serve in dividing or gashing;
as, a knife cuts well.

2. To admit of incision or severance; to yield to a cutting
instrument.
Panels of white wood that cuts like cheese. Holmes.

3. To perform the operation of dividing, severing, incising,
intersecting, etc.; to use a cutting instrument.
He saved the lives of thousands by manner of cutting for the stone.
Pope.

4. To make a stroke with a whip.

5. To interfere, as a horse.

6. To move or make off quickly. [Colloq.]

7. To divide a pack of cards into two portion to decide the deal or
trump, or to schange the order of the cards to be dealt. To cut
across, to pass over or through in the most direct way; as, to cut
across a field.
 -- To cut and run, to make off suddenly and quickly; -- from the
cutting of a ship's cable, when there is not time to raise the
anchor. [Colloq.] -- To cut in or into, to interrupt; to jont an
anything suddenly.
 -- To cut up. (a) To play pranks. [Colloq.] (b) To divide into
portions well or ill; to have the property left at one's death turn
out well or poorly when divided among heirs, legatees, etc. [Slang.]
"When I die, may I cut up as well as Morgan Pendennis." Thackeray.

CUT
Cut, n.

1. An opening made with an edged instrument; a cleft; a gash; a
slash; a wound made by cutting; as, a sword cut.

2. A stroke or blow or cutting motion with an edged instrument; a
stroke or blow with a whip.

3. That which wounds the feelings, as a harsh remark or criticism, or
a sarcasm; personal discourtesy, as neglecting to recognize an
acquaintance when meeting him; a slight.
Rip called him by name, but the cur snarled, snapped his teeth, and
passed on. This was an unkind cut indeed. W. Irving.

4. A notch, passage, or channel made by cutting or digging; a furrow;
a groove; as, a cut for a railroad.
This great cut or ditch Secostris . . . purposed to have made a great
deal wider and deeper. Knolles.

5. The surface left by a cut; as, a smooth or clear cut.

6. A portion severed or cut off; a division; as, a cut of beef; a cut
of timber.
It should be understood, moreover, . . . that the group are not
arbitrary cuts, but natural groups or types. Dana.

7. An engraved block or plate; the impression from such an engraving;
as, a book illustrated with fine cuts.

8.
(a) The act of dividing a pack cards.
(b) The right to divide; as, whose cut is it

9. Manner in which a thing is cut or formed; shape; style; fashion;
as, the cut of a garment.
With eyes severe and beard of formal cut. Shak.

10. A common work horse; a gelding. [Obs.]
He'll buy me a cut, forth for to ride. Beau. & Fl.

11. The failure of a college officer or student to be present at any
appointed exercise. [College Cant]

12. A skein of yarn. Wright. A cut in rates (Railroad), a reduction
in fare, freight charges, etc., below the established rates.
 -- A short cut, a cross route which shortens the way and cuts off a
circuitous passage.
 -- The cut of one's jib, the general appearance of a person.
[Colloq.] -- To draw cuts, to draw lots, as of paper, etc., cut
unequal lengths.
Now draweth cut . . . The which that hath the shortest shall begin.
Chaucer.

CUT
Cut (kt), a.

1. Gashed or divided, as by a cutting instrument.

2. Formed or shaped as by cuttting; carved.

3. Overcome by liquor; tipsy. [Slang] Cut and dried, prepered
beforehand; not spontaneous.
 -- Cut glass, glass having a surface ground and polished in facets
or figures.
 -- Cut nail, a nail cut by machinery from a rolled plate of iron, in
distinction from a wrought nail.
 -- Cut stone, stone hewn or chiseled to shape after having been
split from the quarry.

CUTANEOUS
Cu*ta"ne*ous (k-t"n-s), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cutan, fr. L. cutis skin.
See Cuticle.]

Defn: Of pertaining to the skin; existing on, or affecting, the skin;
as, a cutaneous disease; cutaneous absorption; cutaneous respiration.

CUTAWAY
Cut"a*way` (kt"-w`), a.

Defn: Having a part cut off or away; having the corners rounded or
cut away. Cutaway coat, a coat whose skirts are cut away in front so
as not to meet at the bottom.

CUTCH
Cutch (kch; 224), n.

Defn: See Catechu.

CUTCH
Cutch, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cultch.

CUTCHERY
Cutch"er*y (kch"r-), n. Etym: [Hind. kachahri.]

Defn: A hindoo hall of justice. Malcom.

CUTE
Cute (kt), a. Etym: [An abbrev. of acute.]

Defn: Clever; sharp; shrewd; ingenious; cunning. [Colloq.]

CUTENESS
Cute"ness, n.

Defn: Acuteness; cunning. [Colloq.]

CUTGRASS
Cut"grass` (kt"grs`).

Defn: A grass with leaves having edges furnished with very minute
hooked prickles, which form a cutting edge; one or more species of
Leersia.

CUTICLE
Cu"ti*cle (k"t-k'l), n. Etym: [L. cuticula, dim. of cuttis skin; akin
to E. hide skin of an animal.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The scarfskin or epidermis. See Skin.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The outermost skin or pellicle of a plant, found especially in
leaves and young stems.

3. A thin skin formed on the surface of a liquid.

CUTICULAR
Cu*tic"u*lar (k-tk"-lr), a.

Defn: Pertaining to the cuticle, or external coat of the skin;
epidermal.

CUTIN
Cu"tin (k"tn), n. Etym: [L. cutis skin, outside.] (Bot.)

Defn: The substance which, added to the material of a cell wall,
makes it waterproof, as in cork.

CUTINIZATION
Cu`tin*i*za"tion (k`tn--z"shn), n. (Bot.)

Defn: The conversion of cell walls into a material which repels
water, as in cork.

CUTINIZE
Cu"tin*ize (k"tn-z), v. t. & i.

Defn: To change into cutin.

CUTIS
Cu"tis (k"ts), n. Etym: [L. See Cuticle.] (Anat.)

Defn: See Dermis.

CUTLASS
Cut"lass (kt"lass), n.; pl. Cutlasses (-Ez). Etym: [F. coutelas (cf.
It. coltellaccio), augm. fr. L. cuttellus a smallknife, dim. of
culter knife. See Colter, and cf. Curtal ax.]

Defn: A short, heavy, curving sword, used in the navy. See Curtal ax.
Cutlass fish, (Zoöl.), a peculiar, long, thin, marine fish (Trichirus
lepturus) of the southern United States and West Indies; -- called
also saber fish, silver eel, and, improperly, swordfish.

CUTLER
Cut"ler (kUt"lEr), n. Etym: [OE. coteler, F. coutelier, LL.
cultellarius, fr. L. cultellus. See Cutlass.]

Defn: One who makes or deals in cutlery, or knives and other cutting
instruments.

CUTLERY
Cut"ler*y (kt"lr-), n.

1. The business of a cutler.

2. Edged or cutting instruments, collectively.

CUTLET
Cut"let (kt"lt), n. Etym: [F. c, prop., little rib, dim. of c rib,
fr. L. costa. See Coast.]

Defn: A piece of meat, especially of veal or mutton, cut for
broiling.

CUTLING
Cut"ling (kt"lng), n., Etym: [Cf. Cuttle a knife.]

Defn: The art of making edged tools or cutlery. [Obs.] Milton.

CUT-OFF
Cut"-off` (kt"f`; 115), n.

1. That which cuts off or shortens, as a nearer passage or road.

2. (Mach.)
(a) The valve gearing or mechanism by which steam is cut off from
entering the cylinder of a steam engine after a definite point in a
stroke, so as to allow the remainder of the stroke to be made by the
expansive force of the steam already let in. See Expansion gear,
under Expansion.
(b) Any device for stopping or changing a current, as of grain or
water in a spout.

CUTOSE
Cu"tose (k"ts), n. Etym: [L. cutis skin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A variety of cellulose, occuring as a fine transparent membrane
covering the aerial organs of plants, and forming an essential
ingredient of cork; by oxidation it passes to suberic acid.

CUT-OUT
Cut"-out` (kt"out`), n.
(a) (Telegraphy) A species of switch for changing the current from
one circuit to another, or for shortening a circuit.
(b) (Elec.) A divice for breaking or separating a portion of circuit.

CUTPURSE
Cut"purse` (kt"prs`), n.

Defn: One who cuts purses for the sake of stealing them or their
contents (an act common when men wore purses fastened by a string to
their girdles); one who steals from the person; a pickpocket
To have an open ear, a quick eye, and a nimble hand, is necessary for
a cutpurse. Shak.

CUTTER
Cut"ter (kt"tr), n.

1. One who cuts; as, a stone cutter; a die cutter; esp., one who cuts
out garments.

2. That which cuts; a machine or part of a machine, or a tool or
instrument used for cutting, as that part of a mower which severs the
stalk, or as a paper cutter.

3. A fore tooth; an incisor. Ray.

4. (Naut.)
(a) A boat used by ships of war.
(b) A fast sailing vessel with one mast, rigged in most essentials
like a sloop. A cutter is narrower end deeper than a sloop of the
same length, and depends for stability on a deep keel, often heavily
weighted with lead.
(c) A small armed vessel, usually a steamer, in the revenue marine
service; -- also called revenue cutter.

5. A small, light one-horse sleigh.

6. An officer in the exchequer who notes by cutting on the tallies
the sums paid.

7. A ruffian; a bravo; a destroyer. [Obs.]

8. A kind of soft yellow brick, used for facework; -- so called from
the facility with which it can be cut. Cutter bar.(Mach.) (a) A bar
which carries a cutter or cutting tool, as in a boring machine. (b)
The bar to which the triangular knives of a harvester are attached.
 -- Cutter head (Mach.), a rotating head, which itself forms a
cutter, or a rotating stock to which cutters may be attached, as in a
planing or matching machine. Knight.

CUTTHROAT
Cut"throat` (kt"thrt`), n.

Defn: One who cuts throats; a murderer; an assassin.

CUTTHROAT
Cut"throat`, a.

Defn: Murderous; cruel; barbarous.

CUTTING
Cut"ting (kt"tng), n.

1. The act or process of making an incision, or of severing, felling,
shaping, etc.

2. Something cut, cut off, or cut out, as a twig or

CUTTING
Cut"ting, a.

1. Adapted to cut; as, a cutting tool.

2. Chilling; penetratinn; sharp; as, a cutting wind.

3. Severe; sarcastic; biting; as, a cutting reply.

CUTTINGLY
Cut"ting*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cutting manner.

CUTTLE
Cut"tle (kt"t'l), n. Etym: [OF. cultel, coltel, coutel, fr. L.
cultellus. See Cutlass.]

Defn: A knife. [Obs.] Bale.

CUTTLE; CUTTLEFISH
Cut"tle (kt"t'l), Cut"tle*fish` (-fsh`), n. Etym: [OE. codule, AS.
cudele; akin to G. kuttelfish; cf. G. k, D. keutel, dirt from the
guts, G. kuttel bowels, entrails. AS. cwip womb, Gith. qipus belly,
womb.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cephalopod of the genus Sepia, having an internal shell,
large eyes, and ten arms furnished with denticulated suckers, by
means of which it secures its prey. The name is sometimes applied to
dibranchiate cephalopods generally.

Note: It has an ink bag, opening into the siphon, from which, when
pursued, it throws out a dark liquid that clouds the water, enabling
it to escape observation.

2. A foul-mouthed fellow. "An you play the saucy cuttle me." Shak.

CUTTLE BONE
Cut"tle bone` (bn`).

Defn: The shell or bone of cuttlefishes, used for various purposes,
as for making polishing powder, etc.

CUTTOO PLATE
Cut*too" plate` (kt-t" plt`).

Defn: A hood over the end of a wagon wheel hub to keep dirt away from
the axle.

CUTTY
Cut"ty, a. Etym: [Cf. Ir. & Gael. cut a short tail, cutach bobtailed.
See Cut.]

Defn: Short; as, a cutty knife; a cutty sark. [Scot.]

CUTTY
Cut"ty (kt"t), n. Etym: [Scotch.]

1. A short spoon.

2. A short tobacco pipe. Ramsay.

3. A light or unchaste woman. Sir W. Scott.

CUTTYSTOOL
Cut"ty*stool` (-stl`), n.

1. A low stool [Scot.]

2. A seat in old Scottish churches, where offenders were made to sit,
for public rebuke by the minister.

CUTWAL
Cut"wal (kt"wl), n. Etym: [Per. kotw.]

Defn: The chief police officer of a large city. [East Indies]

CUTWATER
Cut"wa`ter (kt"wa`tr), n. (Naut.)

1. The fore part of a ship's prow, which cuts the water.

2. A starling or other structure attached to the pier of a birdge,
with an angle or edge directed up stream, in order better to resist
the action of water, ice, etc.; the sharpened upper end of the pier
itself.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sea bird of the Atlantic (Rhynchops nigra); -- called also
black skimmer, scissorsbill, and razorbill. See Skimmer.

CUTWORK
Cut"work` (kt"wrk`), n. (Fine Arts)

Defn: An ancient term for embroidery, esp. applied to the earliest
form of lace, or to that early embroidery on linen and the like, from
which the manufacture of lace was developed.

CUTWORM
Cut"worm` (-wrm`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A caterpillar which at night eats off young plants of cabbage,
corn, etc., usually at the ground. Some kinds ascend fruit trees and
eat off the flower buds. During the day, they conceal themselves in
the earth. The common cutworms are the larvæ of various species of
Agrotis and related genera of noctuid moths.

CUVETTE
Cu*vette" (k-wt"), n. Etym: [F., dim. of cuve a tub.]

1. A pot, bucket, or basin, in which molten plate glass is carried
from the melting pot to the casting table.

2. (Fort.)

Defn: A cunette. 3. (Spectrometry) (Analytical chemistry)

Defn: A small vessel with at least two flat and transparent sides,
used to hold a liquid sample to be analysed in the light path of a
spectrometer.

Note: The shape and materials vary; for ultraviolet spectrometry,
quartz is typically used. For visible-light spectrometry, plastic
cuvettes may be employed. Occasionally, small vessels used for other
laboratory purposes are called cuvettes. cuvette holder,
(Spectrometry) A small device used to hold one or more cuvettes[3],
shaped specifically to fit in the sample chamber of a particular type
of spectrometer, with openings to permit light to pass through the
holder and the cuvettes, and designed so as to hold the cuvette
accurately and reproducibly within the light path of the
spectrometer. For cuvettes with a square horizontal cross-section,
the compartments will have a corresponding square cross-section, usu.
slightly larger than the cuvette.

CYAMELIDE
Cy*am"e*lide (s-m"-ld or -ld; 104), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white amorphous substance, regarded as a polymeric
modification of isocyanic acid.

CYAMELLONE
Cy*am"el*lone (s-m"l-ln), n. (Chem)

Defn: A complex derivative of cyanogen, regarded as an acid, and
known chiefly in its salts; -- called also hydromellonic acid.

CYANATE
Cy"a*nate (s"-nt), n. Etym: [Cf. F. cuanate. See Cyanic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of cyanic acid. Ammonium cyanate (Chem.), a remarkable
white crystalline substance, NH4.O.CN, which passes, on standing, to
the organic compound, urea, CO.(NH)2.

CYANAURATE
Cy`an*au"rate (s`n-"rt), n.

Defn: See Aurocyanide.

CYANEAN
Cy*a"ne*an (s-"n-an), a. Etym: [Gr. kya`neos dark blue.]

Defn: Having an azure color. Pennant.

CYANIC
Cy*an"ic (s-n"k), a. Etym: [Gr. cyanique. Cf. Kyanite.]

1. Pertaining to, or containing, cyanogen.

2. Of or pertaining to a blue color. Cyanic acid (Chem.), an acid,
HOCN, derived from cyanogen, well known in its salts, but never
isolated in the free state.
 -- Cyanic colors (Bot.), those colors (of flowers) having some tinge
of blue; -- opposed to xanthic colors. A color of either series may
pass into red or white, but not into the opposing color. Red and pure
white are more common among flowers of cyanic tendency than in those
of the other class.

CYANIDE
Cy"a*nide (s"-nd or -nd; 104), n. Etym: [Cf. F. cyanide. See Cyanic.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A compound formed by the union of cyanogen with an element or
radical.

CYANIN
Cy"a*nin (s"-nn), n. Etym: [See Cyanic.] (Chem.)

Defn: The blue coloring matter of flowers; -- called also anthokyan
and anthocyanin.

CYANINE
Cy"a*nine (s"-nn or -nn; 104), n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of artificial blue or red dyes obtained from
quinoline and lepidine and used in calico printing.

CYANITE
Cy"a*nite (-nt), n. Etym: [See Cyanic.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occuring in thin-bladed crystals and crystalline
aggregates, of a sky-blue color. It is a silicate of aluminium.
[Written also kyanite.]

CYANOGEN
Cy*an"o*gen (s-n"-jn), n. Etym: [Gr. -gen: cf. F. cyanogène. So
called because it produced blue dyes.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, inflammable, poisonous gas, C2N2, with a peach-
blossom odor, so called from its tendency to form blue compounds;
obtained by heating ammonium oxalate, mercuric cyanide, etc. It is
obtained in combination, forming an alkaline cyanide when nitrogen or
a nitrogenous compound is strongly ignited with carbon and soda or
potash. It conducts itself like a member of the halogen group of
elements, and shows a tendency to form complex compounds. The name is
also applied to the univalent radical, CN (the half molecule of
cyanogen proper), which was one of the first compound radicals
recognized.

Note: Cyanogen is found in the commercial substances, potassium
cyanide, or prussiate of potash, yellow prussiate of potash, Prussian
blue, Turnbull's blue, prussic acid, etc.

CYANOMETER
Cy`a*nom"e*ter (s`-nm"-tr), n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. cyanomètre.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring degress of blueness.

CYANOPATHY
Cy`a*nop"a*thy (-np"-th), n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A disease in which the body is colored blue in its surface,
arising usually from a malformation of the heart, which causes an
imperfect arterialization of the blood; blue jaundice.

CYANOPHYLL
Cy*an"o*phyll (s-n"-fl), n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A blue coloring matter supposed by some to be one of the
component parts ofchlorophyll.

CYANOSED
Cy"a*nosed (s"-nst), a. Etym: [See Cyanic.]

Defn: Rendered blue, as the surface of the body, from cyanosis or
deficient a

CYANOSIS
Cy`a*no"sis (s`-n"ss), n. Etym: [NL. See Cyanic.] (Med.)

Defn: A condition in which, from insufficient aCyanopathy.

CYANOSITE
Cy*an"o*site (s-n"-st), n. Etym: [See Cyanic.] (Min.)

Defn: Native sulphate of copper. Cf. Blue vitriol, under Blue.

CYANOTIC
Cy`a*not"ic (s`-nt"k), a. (Med.)

Defn: Relating to cyanosis; affected with cyanosis; as, a cyanotic
patient; having the hue caused by cyanosis; as, a cyanitic skin.

CYANOTYPE
Cy*an"o*type (s-n"-tp), n. Etym: [Cyanide + -type.]

Defn: A photographic picture obtained by the use of a cyanide.

CYANURATE
Cy"an"u*rate (s-n"-rt), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of cyanuric acid.

CYANURET
Cy*an"u*ret (-rt), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A cyanide. [Obs.]

CYANURIC
Cy`a*nu"ric (s`-n"rk), a. Etym: [Cyanic + uric: Cf. F. cyanurique.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, cyanic and uric acids.

CYANURIC ACID
Cyanuric acid (Chem.),

Defn: an organic acid, C3O3N3H3, first obtained by heating uric acid
or urea, and called pyrouric acid; afterwards obtained from isocyanic
acid. It is a white crystalline substance, odorless and almost
tasteless; -- called also tricarbimide.

CYATHIFORM
Cy*ath"i*form (s-th"-frm), a. Etym: [L. cyathus a cup (Gr, ky`aqos) -
form:cf. F. cyathiforme.]

Defn: In the form of a cup, a little widened at the top.

CYATHOLITH
Cy*ath"olith (s-th"-lth), n. Etym: [Gr. ky`aqos a cup + -lith.]
(Biol.)

Defn: A kind of coccolith, which in shape resembles a minute cup
widened at the top, and varies in size from

CYATHOPHYLLOID
Cy`a*tho*phyl"loid (s`-th-fl"loid), a. Etym: [NL. cyathophyllum, fr.
Gr. ky`aqos a cup + fy`llon a leaf.] (Pale

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, the family Cyathophyllidæ.

CYATHOPHYLLOID
Cy`a*tho*phyl"loid, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil coral of the family Cyathophyllidæ; sometimes extended
to fossil corals of other related families belonging to the group
Rugosa; -- also called cup corals. Thay are found in paleozoic rocks.

CYCAD
Cy"cad (s"kd), n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the natural order Cycadeceæ, as the sago palm,
etc.

CYCADACEOUS
Cyc`a*da"ceous (sk`-d"shs or s`k-), a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants like the
palms, but having exogenous wood. The sago palm is an example.

CYCAS
Cy"cas (s"ks), n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin. Linnæus derives it from
one of the "obscure Greek words."] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees, intermediate in character between the palms
and the pines. The pith of the trunk of some species furnishes a
valuable kind of sago.

CYCLAMEN
Cyc"la*men (sk"l-mn), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. kykla`minos, kyklami`s.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the Primrose family, having depressed
rounded corms, and pretty nodding flowers with the petals so reflexed
as to point upwards, whence it is called rabbit's ears. It is also
called sow bread, because hogs are said to eat the corms.

CYCLAMIN
Cyc"la*min (-mn), n.

Defn: A white amorphous substance, regarded as a glucoside, extracted
from the corm of Cyclamen Europæum.

CYCLAS
Cy"clas (s"kls), n. Etym: [Cf.Ciclatoun.]

Defn: A long gown or surcoat (cut off in front), worn in the Middle
Ages. It was sometimes embroidered or interwoven with gold. Also, a
rich stuff from which the gown was made.

CYCLE
Cy"cle (s"k'l), n. Etym: [F. ycle, LL. cyclus, fr. Gr. cakra wheel,
circle. See Wheel.]

1. An imaginary circle or orbit in the heavens; one of the celestial
spheres. Milton.

2. An interval of time in which a certain succession of events or
phenomena is completed, and then returns again and again, uniformly
and continually in the same order; a periodical space of time marked
by the recurrence of something peculiar; as, the cucle of the
seasons, or of the year.
Wages . . . bear a full proportion . . . to the medium of provision
during the last bad cycle of twenty years. Burke.

3. An age; a long period of time.
Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay. Tennyson.

4. An orderly list for a given time; a calendar. [Obs.]
We . . . present our gardeners with a complete cycle of what is
requisite to be done throughout every month of the year. Evelyn.

5. The circle of subjects connected with the exploits of the hero or
heroes of some particular period which have severed as a popular
theme for poetry, as the legend aof Arthur and the knights of the
Round Table, and that of Charlemagne and his paladins.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: One entire round in a circle or a spire; as, a cycle or set of
leaves. Gray.

7. A bicycle or tricycle, or other light velocipede. Calippic cycle,
a period of 76 years, or four Metonic cycles; -- so called from
Calippus, who proposed it as an improvement on the Metonic cycle.
 -- Cycle of eclipses, a priod of about 6,586 days, the time of
revolution of the moon's node; -- called Saros by the Chaldeans.
 -- Cycle of indiction, a period of 15 years, employed in Roman and
ecclesiastical chronology, not founded on any astronomical period,
but having reference to certain judicial acts which took place at
stated epochs under the Greek emperors.
 -- Cycle of the moon, or Metonic cycle, a period of 19 years, after
the lapse of which the new and full moon returns to the same day of
the year; -- so called from Meton, who first proposed it.
 -- Cycle of the sun, Solar cycle, a period of 28 years, at the end
of which time the days of the month return to the same days of the
week. The dominical or Sunday letter follows the same order; hence
the solar cycle is also called the cycle of the Sunday letter. In the
Gregorian calendar the solar cycle is in general interrupted at the
end of the century.

CYCLE
Cy"cle (s"k'l), v. i. [imp. & p.p. Cycled. (-k'ld); p.pr. & vb. n.
Cycling (-kl.]

1. To pass through a cycle of changes; to recur in cycles. Tennyson.
Darwin.

2. To ride a bicycle, tricycle, or other form of cycle.

CYCLIC; CYCLICAL
Cyc"lic (sk"lk or s"klk), Cyc"lic*al (sk"l-kal), a. Etym: [Cf. F.
cycluque, Gr.Cycle.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cycle or circle; moving in cycles; as,
cyclical time. Coleridge. Cyclic chorus, the chorus which performed
the songs and dances of the dithyrambic odes at Athens, dancing round
the altar of Bacchus in a circle.
 -- Cyclic poets, certain epic poets who followed Homer, and wrote
merely on the Trojan war and its heroes; -- so called because keeping
within the circle of a singe subject. Also, any series or coterie of
poets writing on one subject. Milman.

CYCLIDE
Cy"clide (s"kld), n. Etym: [Gr. (Geom.)

Defn: A surface of the fourth degree, having certain special
relations to spherical surfaces. The tore or anchor ring is one of
the cyclides.

CYCLING
Cy"cling (s"klng), n.

Defn: The act, art, or practice, of riding a cycle, esp. a bicycle or
tricycle.

CYCLIST
Cy"clist (s"klst), n.

Defn: A cycler.

CYCLO-
Cy"clo- (s"kl-). Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form meaning circular, of a circle or wheel.

CYCLOBRANCHIATE
Cy`clo*bran"chi*ate (s`kl-brn"k-t), a. Etym: [Cyclo- + branchiate.]
(Zoöl)

Defn: Having the gills around the margin of the body, as certain
limpets.

CYCLOGANOID
Cy`clo*ga"noid (s`kl-g"noid or -gn"oid), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cycloganoidei.

CYCLOGANOID
Cy`clo*ga"noid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cycloganoidei.

CYCLOGANOIDEI
Cy`clo*ga*noi"de*i (s"kl-g-noi"d-), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
ganoidei. See Ganoid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of ganoid fishes, having cycloid scales. The bowfin
(Amia calva) is a living example.

CYCLOGRAPH
Cy"clo*graph (s"kl-grf), n. Etym: [Cyclo- + -graph.]

Defn: See Arcograph.

CYCLOID
Cy"cloid (s"kloid), n. Etym: [Cyclo- + -oid: cf. F. cycloïde.]
(Geom.)

Defn: A curve generated by a point in the plane of a circle when the
circle is rolled along a straight line, keeping always in the same
plane.

Note: The common cycloid is the curve described when the generating
point (p) is on the circumference of the generating circle; the
curtate cycloid, when that point lies without the circumference; the
prolate or inflected cycloid, when the generating point (p) lies
within that circumference.

CYCLOID
Cy"cloid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cycloidei. Cycloid scale (Zoöl.), a
fish scale which is thin and shows concentric lines of growth,
without serrations on the margin.

CYCLOID
Cy"cloid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cycloidei.

CYCLOIDAL
Cy*cloid"al (-al), a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a cycloid; as, the cycloidal
space is the space contained between a cycloid and its base.
Cycloidal engine. See Geometric lathe.

CYCLOIDEI
Cy*cloi"de*i (s-kloi"d-), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of fishes, formerly proposed by Agassiz, for those
with thin, smooth scales, destitute of marginal spines, as the
herring and salmon. The group is now regarded as artificial.

CYCLOIDIAN
Cy*cloid"i*an (s-kloid"-an), a. & n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as 2d and 3d Cycloid.

CYCLOMETER
Cy*clom"e*ter (s-klm"-tr), n. Etym: [Cyclo- + -meter.]

Defn: A contrivance for recording the revolutions of a wheel, as of a
bicycle.

CYCLOMETRY
Cy*clom"e*try (-tr), n. Etym: [Cyclo- + -metry: cf. F. cyclom.]
(Geom.)

Defn: The art of measuring circles.

CYCLONE
Cy"clone (s"kln), n. Etym: [Gr. (Meteor.)

Defn: A violent storm, often of vast extent, characterized by high
winds rotating about a calm center of low atmospheric pressure. This
center moves onward, often with a velocity of twenty or thirty miles
an hour.

Note: The atmospheric disturbance usually accompanying a cyclone,
marked by an onward moving area of high pressure, is called an
anticyclone.

CYCLONE CELLAR; CYCLONE PIT
Cyclone cellar or pit .

Defn: A cellar or excavation used for refuge from a cyclone, or
tornado. [Middle U. S.]

CYCLONIC
Cy*clon"ic (s-kln"k), a.

Defn: Pertaining to a cyclone.

CYCLONOSCOPE
Cy*clo"no*scope, n.  [Cyclone + -scope.]

Defn: An apparatus to assist in locating the center of a cyclone.

CYCLOP
Cy"clop (s"klp), n.

Defn: See Note under Cyclops, 1.

CYCLOPEAN
Cy`clo*pe"an (s`kl-p"an), a. Etym: [L. Cyclopeus, Gr. cyclopeen.]

Defn: Pertaining to the Cyclops; characteristic of the Cyclops; huge;
gigantic; vast and rough; massive; as, Cyclopean labors; Cyclopean
architecture.

CYCLOPEDIA; CYCLOPAEDIA
Cy`clo*pe"di*a Cy`clo*pae"di*a (s`kl-p"d-), n. Etym: [NL., from Gr.
ky`klos circle + paidei`a the bringing up of a child, education,
erudition, fr. paidey`ein to bring up a child. See Cycle, and cf.
Encyclopedia, Pedagogue.]

Defn: The circle or compass of the arts and sciences (originally, of
the seven so-called liberal arts and sciences); circle of human
knowledge. Hence, a work containing, in alphabetical order,
information in all departments of knowledge, or on a particular
department or branch; as, a cyclopedia of the physical sciences, or
of mechanics. See Encyclopedia.

CYCLOPEDIC
Cy`clo*ped"ic (s`kl-pd"k or -p"dk), a.

Defn: Belonging to the circle of the sciences, or to a cyclopedia; of
the nature of a cyclopedia; hence, of great range, extent, or amount;
as, a man of cyclopedic knowledge.

CYCLOPEDIST
Cy`clo*pe"dist (-p"dst), n.

Defn: A maker of, or writer for, a cyclopedia.

CYCLOPIC
Cy*clop"ic (s-klp"k), a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the Cyclops; Cyclopean.

CYCLOPS
Cy"clops (s"klps), n. sing. & pl. Etym: [L. Cyclops, Gr.

1. (Gr. Myth.)

Defn: One of a race of giants, sons of Neptune and Amphitrite, having
but one eye, and that in the middle of the forehead. They were fabled
to inhabit Sicily, and to assist in the workshops of Vulcan, under
Mt. Etna.

Note: Pope, in his translation of the "Odyssey," uniformly spells
this word Cyclop, when used in the singular.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of minute Entomostraca, found both in fresh and salt
water. See Copepoda.

3. A portable forge, used by tinkers, etc.

CYCLORAMA
Cy`clo*ra"ma (s`kl-r"m or -r"m), n. Etym: [Cyclo- + Gr.

Defn: A pictorial view which is extended circularly, so that the
spectator is surrounded by the objects represented as by things in
nature. The realistic effect is increased by putting, in the space
between the spectator and the picture, things adapted to the scene
represented, and in some places only parts of these objects, the
completion of them being carried out pictorially.

CYCLOSCOPE
Cy"clo*scope (s"kl-skp), n. Etym: [Cyclo- + -scope.]

Defn: A machine for measuring at any moment velocity of rotation, as
of a wheel of a steam engine. Knight.

CYCLOSIS
Cy*clo"sis (s-kl"ss), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Cyclone.] (Bot.)

Defn: The circulation or movement of protoplasmic granules within a
living vegetable cell.

CYCLOSTOMATA
Cy`clo*stom"a*ta (s`kl-stm"-t)

Defn:

CYCLOSTOME
Cy*clos"to*me, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Bryozoa, in which the cells have circular
apertures.

CYCLOSTOME; CYCLOSTOMOUS
Cy"clo*stome (s"kl-stm), Cy*clos"to*mous (s-kls"t-ms), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Cyclostomi.

CYCLOSTOMI
Cy*clos"to*mi (s-kls"t-m), n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Cyclostomata.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A glass of fishes having a suckerlike mouth, without jaws, as
the lamprey; the Marsipobranchii.

CYCLOSTYLAR
Cy`clo*sty"lar (s`kl-st"r), a. Etym: [Cyclo- + Gr.

Defn: Relating to a structure composed of a circular range of
columns, without a core or building within. Weale.

CYCLOSTYLE
Cy"clo*style (s"kl-stl), n. Etym: [Cyclo + style.]

Defn: A contrivance for producing manifold copies of writing or
drawing. The writing or drawing is done with a style carrying a small
wheel at the end which makes minute punctures in the paper, thus
converting it into a stencil. Copies are transferred with an inked
roller.

CYDER
Cy"der (s"dr), n.

Defn: See Cider. [Archaic]

CYDONIN
Cy*do"nin (s-d"nn), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar mucilaginous substance extracted from the seeds of
the quince (Cydonia vulgaris), and regarded as a variety of amylose.

CYGNET
Cyg"net (sg"nt), n. Etym: [Dim. of F. cygne swan, L. cycnus. cygnus,
fr. Gr. cugne seems to be an etymological spelling of OF. cisne, fr.
LL. cecinus, cicinus, perh. ultimately also fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young swan. Shak.

CYGNUS
Cyg"nus (sg"ns), n. Etym: [L., a swan.] (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation of the northern hemisphere east of, or
following, Lyra; the Swan.

CYLINDER
Cyl"in*der (sl"n-dr), n. Etym: [F. cylindre, OF. cilindre, L.
cylindrus, fr. Gr. Calender the machine.]

1. (Geom.)
(a) A solid body which may be generated by the rotation of a
parallelogram round one its sides; or a body of rollerlike form, of
which the longitudinal section is oblong, and the cross section is
circular.
(b) The space inclosed by any cylindrical surface. The space may be
limited or unlimited in length.

2. Any hollow body of cylindrical form, as:
(a) The chamber of a steam engine in which the piston is moved by the
force of steam.
(b) The barrel of an air or other pump.
(c) (Print.) The revolving platen or bed which produces the
impression or carries the type in a cylinder press.
(d) The bore of a gun; the turning chambered breech of a revolver.

3. The revolving square prism carryng the cards in a Jacquard loom.
Cylinder axis. (Anat.) SeeAxis cylinder, under Axis.
 -- Cylinder engine (Paper Making), a machine in which a cylinder
takes up the pulp and delivers it in a continuous sheet to the
dryers.
 -- Cylinder escapement. See Escapement.
 -- Cylinder glass. See Glass.
 -- Cylinder mill. See Roller mill.
 -- Cylinder press. See Press.

CYLINDRACEOUS
Cyl`in*dra"ceous (-dr"shs), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cylyndrac]

Defn: Cylindrical, or approaching a cylindrical form.

CYLINDRIC; CYLINDRICAL
Cy*lin"dric (s-ln"drk), Cy*lin"dric*al (-dr-kal), a. Etym:
[Gr.cylindrique.]

Defn: Having the form of a cylinder, or of a section of its convex
surface; partaking of the properties of the cylinder. Cylindrical
lens, a lens having one, or more than one, cylindrical surface.
 -- Cylindric, or Cylindrical, surface (Geom.), a surface described
by a straight line that moves according to any law, but so as to be
constantly parallel to a given line.
 -- Cylindrical vault. (Arch.) See under Vault, n.

CYLINDRICALLY
Cy*lin"dric*al*ly (s-ln"dr-kal-l), adv.

Defn: In the manner or shape of a cylinder; so as to be cylindrical.

CYLINDRICITY
Cyl*`in*dric"i*ty (sl`n-drs"-t), n

Defn: The quality or condition of being cylindrical.

CYLINDRIFORM
Cy*lin"dri*form (s-ln"dr-frm), a. Etym: [L. cylindrus (Gr. -form:
cf.F. cylindriforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a cylinder.

CYLINDROID
Cyl"in*droid (sl"n-droid), n. Etym: [Gr. -oid: cf. F. cylindro.]

1. A solid body resembling a right cylinder, but having the bases or
ends elliptical.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: A certain surface of the third degree, described by a moving
straight line; -- used to illustrate the motions of a rigid body and
also the forces acting on the body.

CYLINDROMETRIC
Cy*lin`dro*met"ric (s-ln`dr-mt"rk), a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Belonging to a scale used in measuring cylinders.

CYMA
Cy"ma (s"m) n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Cyme]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A member or molding of the cornice, the profile of which is
wavelike in form.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A cyme. See Cyme. Cyma recta, or Cyma, a cyma, hollow in its
upper part and swelling below.
 -- Cyma reversa, or Ogee, a cyma swelling out on the upper part and
hollow below.

CYMAR
Cy*mar" (s-mr"), n. Etym: [F. simarre. See Chimere.]

Defn: A sight covering; a scarf. See Simar.
Her body shaded with a light cymar. Dryden.

CYMATIUM
Cy*ma"ti*um (s-m"sh-m), n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: A capping or crowning molding in classic architecture.

CYMBAL
Cym"bal (sm"bal). n. Etym: [OE. cimbale, simbale, OF. cimbale, F.
cymbale, L. cymbalum, fr. Gr. kubha pot. Cf. Chime.]

1. A musical instrument used by the ancients. It is supposed to have
been similar to the modern kettle drum, though perhaps smaller.

2. A musical instrument of brass, shaped like a circular dish or a
flat plate, with a handle at the back; -- used in pairs to produce a
sharp ringing sound by clashing them together.

Note: In orchestras, one cymbal is commonly attached to the bass
drum, and the other heid in the drummer's left hand, while his right
hand uses the drumstick.

3. A musical instrument used by gypsies and others, made of steel
wire, in a triangular form, on which are movable rings.

CYMBALIST
Cym"bal*ist, n.

Defn: A performer upon cymbals.

CYMBIFORM
Cym"bi*form (sm"b-frm),, a. Etym: [L. cymba boat (Gr. -form: cf. F.
cymbiforme.]

Defn: Shaped like a boat; (Bot.) elongated and having the upper
surface decidedly concave, as the glumes of many grasses.

CYMBIUM
Cym"bi*um (sm"b-m), n. Etym: [L., a small cup, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine univalve shells; the gondola.

CYME
Cyme (sm), n. Etym: [L. cyma the young sprount of a cabbage, fr. Gr.
(Bot.)

Defn: A flattish or convex flower cluster, of the centrifugal or
determinate type, differing from a corymb chiefly in the order of the
opening of the blossoms.

CYMENE
Cy"mene (s"mn), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon, CH3.C6H4.C3H7, of
pleasant odor, obtained from oil of cumin, oil of caraway, carvacrol,
camphor, etc.; -- called also paracymene, and formerly camphogen.

CYMENOL
Cy"me*nol (s"m-nl), n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Carvacrol.

CYMIDINE
Cy"mi*dine ( s"m-dn or -dn; 104), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A liquid organic base, C10H13.NH2, derived from cymene.

CYMIFEROUS
Cy*mif"er*ous (s-mf"r-s), a. Etym: [Cyme + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing cymes.

CYMLING; CYMBLING
Cym"ling, Cymb"ling (sm"lng), n.

Defn: A scalloped or "pattypan" variety of summer squash.

CYMOGENE
Cy"mo*gene (s"m-jn), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A highly volatile liquid, condensed by cold and pressure from
the first products of the distillation of petroleum; -- used for
producing low temperatures.

CYMOGRAPH
Cy"mo*graph, n.  [Cyma + -graph.]
 (a) An instrument for making tracings of the outline or contour of
profiles, moldings, etc.
 (b) Var. of Kymograph. --Cy`mo*graph"ic (#), a.

CYMOGRAPH
Cy"mo*graph, v. t.

Defn: To trace or copy with a cymograph.

CYMOID
Cy"moid (s"moid), a. Etym: [Cyme + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of a cyme.

CYMOMETER
Cy*mom"e*ter, n. [Gr.  wave -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for exhibiting and measuring wave motion; specif.
(Elec.),

Defn: an instrument for determining the frequency of electic wave
oscillations, esp. in connection with wireless telegraphy.

CYMOPHANE
Cym"o*phane (sm"-fn or s"m-), n. Etym: [Gr.cymophane. So named in
allusion to a peculiar opalescence often seen in it.] (Min.)

Defn: See Chrysoberyl.

CYMOPHANOUS
Cy*moph"a*nous (s-mf"-ns or s-), a.

Defn: Having a wavy, floating light; opalescent; chatoyant.

CYMOSCOPE
Cy"mo*scope, n. [Gr.  wave + -scope.] (Elec.)

Defn: Any device for detecting the presence of electric waves. The
influence of electric waves on the resistance of a particular kind of
electric circuit, on the magnetization of steel, on the polarization
of an electrolytic cell, or on the electric condition of a vacuum has
been applied in the various cymoscopes.

CYMOSE; CYMOUS
Cy"mose (s"ms; 277), Cy"mous (s"ms), a. Etym: [L. cymosus full of
shoots: cf. FF. cymeux. See Cyme.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the nature of a cyme, or derived from a cyme; bearing,
or pertaining to, a cyme or cymes.

CYMRIC
Cym"ric (km"rk), a. Etym: [W. Cymru Wales.]

Defn: Welsh.
 -- n.

Defn: The Welsh language. [Written also Kymric.]

CYMRY
Cym"ry (-r), n. Etym: [W., pl.]

Defn: A collective term for the Welsh race; -- so called by
themselves . [Written also Cymri, Cwmry, Kymry, etc.]

CYMULE
Cy"mule (s"ml), n. Etym: [Cf. L. cymula a tender sprout, dim. of
cyna. See Cyme.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small cyme, or one of very few flowers.

CYNANCHE
Cy*nan"che (s-nn"k), n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Quinsy.] (Med.)

Defn: Any disease of the tonsils, throat, or windpipe, attended with
inflammation, swelling, and difficulty of breathing and swallowing.

CYNANTHROPY
Cy*nan"thro*py (s-nn"thr-p), n. Etym: [Gr. cynanthropie.] (Med.)

Defn: A kind of madness in which men fancy themselves changed into
dogs, and imitate the voice and habits of that animal.

CYNARCTOMACHY
Cyn`arc*tom"a*chy (sn`rk-tm"-k). n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Bear baiting with a dog. Hudibras.

CYNARRHODIUM
Cyn`ar*rho"di*um (sn`r-r"d-m), n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A fruit like that of the rose, consisting of a cup formed of
the calyx tube and receptacle, and containing achenes.

CYNEGETICS
Cyn`e*get"ics (sn`-jt"ks), n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The art of hunting with dogs.

CYNIC; CYNICAL
Cyn"ic (sn"k), Cyn"ic*al (--kal), a. Etym: [L. cynicus of the sect of
Cynics, fr. Gr. Hound.]

1. Having the qualities of a surly dog; snarling; captious; currish.
I hope it is no very cynical asperity not to confess obligations
where no benefit has been received. Johnson.

2. Pertaining to the Dog Star; as, the cynic, or Sothic, year; cynic
cycle.

3. Belonging to the sect of philosophers called cynics; having the
qualities of a cynic; pertaining to, or resembling, the doctrines of
the cynics.

4. Given to sneering at rectitude and the conduct of life by moral
principles; disbelieving in the reality of any human purposes which
are not suggested or directed by self-interest or self-indulgence;
as, a cynical man who scoffs at pretensions of integrity;
characterized by such opinions; as, cynical views of human nature.

Note: In prose, cynical is used rather than cynic, in the senses 1
and 4. Cynic spasm (Med.), a convulsive contraction of the muscles of
one side of the face, producing a sort of grin, suggesting certain
movements in the upper lip of a dog.

CYNIC
Cyn"ic, n. (Gr. Philos)

1. One of a sect or school of philosophers founded by Antisthenes,
and of whom Diogenes was a disciple. The first Cynics were noted for
austere lives and their scorn for social customs and current
philosophical opinions. Hence the term Cynic symbolized, in the
popular judgment, moroseness, and contempt for the views of others.

2. One who holds views resembling those of the Cynics; a snarler; a
misanthrope; particularly, a person who believes that human conduct
is directed, either consciously or unconsciously, wholly by self-
interest or self-indulgence, and that appearances to the contrary are
superficial and untrustworthy.
He could obtain from one morose cynic, whose opinion it was
impossible to despise, scarcely any not acidulated with scorn.
Macaulay.

CYNICALLY
Cyn"ic*al*ly (sn"-kal-l), adv.

Defn: In a cynical manner.

CYNICALNESS
Cyn"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being cynical.

CYNICISM
Cyn"i*cism (sn"-sz'm), n.

Defn: The doctrine of the Cynics; the quality of being cynical; the
mental state, opnions, or conduct, of a cynic; morose and
contemptuous views and opinions.

CYNOIDEA
Cy*noi"de*a (s-noi"d-a), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Carnivora, including the dogs, wolves, and foxes.

CYNOREXIA
Cyn`o*rex"i*a (sn`-rks"-), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A voracious appetite, like that of a starved dog.

CYNOSURAL
Cy`no*su"ral (s`n-sh"ral or sn`-), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cynosure.

CYNOSURE
Cy"no*sure (s"n-shr or sn"-shr; 277), n. Etym: [L. Cynosura
theconstellation Cynosure, Gr. Cynic.]

1. The constellation of the Lesser Bear, to which, as containing the
polar star, the eyes of mariners and travelers were often directed.

2. That which serves to direct. Southey.

3. Anything to which attention is strongly turned; a center of
attraction.
Where perhaps some beauty lies, The cynosure of neighboring eyes.
Milton.

CYON
Cy"on (s"n), n.

Defn: See Cion, and Scion.

CYPERACEOUS
Cyp`er*a"ceous (sp`r-"shs or s`pr-), a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a large family of plants of
which the sedge is the type.

CYPERUS
Cyp"e*rus (sp"-rs), n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A large genus of plants belonging to the Sedge family, and
including the species called galingale, several bulrushes, and the
Egyptian papyrus.

CYPHER
Cy"pher (s"fr), n. & v.

Defn: See Cipher.

CYPHONAUTES
Cyph`o*nau"tes (sf`-n"tz), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The free-swimming, bivalve larva of certain Bryozoa.

CYPHONISM
Cyph"o*nism (sf`-nz'm or s, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A punishment sometimes used by the ancients, consisting in the
besmearing of the criminal with honey, and exposing him to insects.
It is still in use among some Oriental nations.

CYPRAEA
Cy*præ"a (s-pr"), n. Etym: [NL.; cf. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of mollusks, including the cowries. See Cowrie.

CYPRES
Cy`pres" (s`pr" or s`prs"), n. Etym: [OF., nearly.] (Law)

Defn: A rule for construing written instruments so as to conform as
nearly to the intention of the parties as is consistent with law.
Mozley & W.

CYPRESS
Cy"press (s"prs), n.; pl. Cypresses (- Etym: [OE. cipres, cipresse,
OF. cipres, F. cypr, L. cupressus, cyparissus (cf. the usual Lat.
form cupressus), fr. Gr. g, Gen. vi. 14.] (Bot)

Defn: A coniferous tree of the genus Cupressus. The species are
mostly evergreen, and have wood remarkable for its durability.

Note: Among the trees called cypress are the common Oriental cypress,
Cupressus sempervirens, the evergreen American cypress, C. thyoides
(now called Chamaecyparis sphaeroidea), and the deciduous American
cypress, Taxodium distichum. As having anciently been used at
funerals, and to adorn tombs, the Oriental species is an emblem of
mourning and sadness. Cypress vine (Bot.), a climbing plant with red
or white flowers (Ipotoea Quamoclit, formerly Quamoclit vulgaris).

CYPRIAN
Cyp"ri*an (sp"r-an), a. Etym: [L. Cyprius, fr. Cyprus, Gr.

1. Belonging to Cyprus.

2. Of, pertaining, or conducing to, lewdness.

CYPRIAN
Cyp"ri*an, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Cyprus, especially of ancient Cyprus; a
Cypriot.

2. A lewd woman; a harlot.

CYPRINE
Cyp"rine (sp"rn or s"prn), a. Etym: [Cf. Cypress.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cypress.

CYPRINE
Cyp"rine, a. Etym: [See Cyprinoid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Cyprinoid.

CYPRINODONT
Cy*prin"o*dont (s-prn"-dnt), n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cyprinodontidae, a family of fishes including the
killifishes or minnows. See Minnow.

CYPRINOID
Cyp"ri*noid (sp"r-noid), a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like the carp (Cyprinus).
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Cyprinidae, or Carp family, as the goldfish, barbel,
etc.

CYPRIOT
Cyp"ri*ot (sp"r-t), n. Etym: [F. Cypriot, Chypriot.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Cyprus.

CYPRIPEDIUM
Cyp`ri*pe"di*um (sp`r-p"d-m), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Cypris Venus + pes,
pedis, foot.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of orchidaceous plants including the lady's slipper.

CYPRIS
Cy"pris (s"prs), n.; pl. Cyprides (s. Etym: [L. Cypris, the Cyprian
goddess Venus, Gr. Cyprian.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small, bivalve, freshwater Crustacea, belonging to
the Ostracoda; also, a member of this genus.

CYPRUS
Cy"prus (s"prs), n. Etym: [OE. cipres, cypirs; perh. so named as
being first manufactured in Cyprus. Cf. Cipers.]

Defn: A thin, transparent stuff, the same as, or corresponding to,
crape. It was either white or black, the latter being most common,
and used for mourning. [Obs.]
Lawn as white as driven snow, Cyprus black as e'er was crow. Shak.

CYPRUSLAWN
Cy"prus*lawn` (-ln`), n.

Defn: Same as Cyprus. Milton.

CYPSELA
Cyp"se*la (sp"s-l), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A one-seeded, one-called, indehiscent fruit; an achene with the
calyx tube adherent.

CYPSELIFORM
Cyp*sel"i*form (sp-sl"-frm), a. Etym: [L. cypselus a kind of swallow,
Gr. -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or belonging to the swifts (Cypselidæ.)

CYRENAIC
Cyr`e*na"ic (sr`-n"k or s`r-), a. Etym: [L. Cyrenaicus, fr. Cyrene,
in Libya.]

Defn: Pertaining to Cyrenaica, an ancient country of northern Africa,
and to Cyrene, its principal city; also, to a school of philosophy
founded by Aristippus, a native of Cyrene.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Cyrenaica; also, a disciple of the school of
Aristippus. See Cyrenian, n.

CYRENIAN
Cy*re"ni*an (s-r"n-an), a.

Defn: Pertaining to Cyrene, in Africa; Cyrenaic.

CYRENIAN
Cy*re"ni*an, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Cyrene.

2. One of a school of philosophers, established at Cyrene by
Aristippus, a disciple of Socrates. Their doctrines were nearly the
same as those of the Epicureans.

CYRIOLOGIC
Cyr`i*o*log"ic (sr`--lj"k or s`r-), a. Etym: [See Curiologic.]

Defn: Relating to capital letters.

CYRTOSTYLE
Cyr"to*style (sr"t-stl), n. Etym: [Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: A circular projecting portion.

CYST
Cyst (sst), n. Etym: [Gr. Cyme.]

1. (Med.)
(a) A pouch or sac without opening, usually membranous and containing
morbid matter, which is accidentally developed in one of the natural
cavaties or in the substance of an organ.
(b) In old authors, the urinary bladder, or the gall bladder.
[Written also cystis.]

2. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the bladders or air vessels of certain algæ, as of the
great kelp of the Pacific, and common rockweeds (Fuci) of our shores.
D. C. Eaton.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small capsule or sac of the kind in which many immature
entozoans exit in the tissues of living animals; also, a similar form
in Rotifera, etc.
(b) A form assumed by Protozoa inwhich they become saclike and
quiescent. It generally precedes the production of germs. See
Encystment.

CYSTED
Cyst"ed (ss"td), a.

Defn: Inclosed in a cyst.

CYSTIC
Cyst"ic (ss"tk), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cystique.]

1. Having the form of, or living in, a cyst; as, the cystic entozoa.

2. Containing cysts; cystose; as, cystic sarcoma.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or contained in, a cyst; esp., pertaining to, or
contained in, either the urinary bladder or the gall bladder. Cystic
duct, the duct from the gall bladder which unites with the hepatic to
form the common bile duct.
 -- Cystic worm (Zoöl.), a larval tape worm, as the cysticercus and
echinococcus.

CYSTICERCE; CYSTICERCUS
Cys"ti*cerce (ss"t-srs), Cys`ti*cer"cus (-sr"ks), n. Etym: [NL.
cysticercus, fr. Gr. cysticerque.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larval form of a tapeworm, having the head and neck of a
tapeworm attached to a saclike body filled with fluid; -- called also
bladder worm, hydatid, and measle (as, pork measle).

Note: These larvae live in the tissues of various living animals,
and, when swallowed by a suitable carnivorous animal, develop into
adult tapeworms in the intestine. See Measles, 4, Tapeworm.

CYSTICULE
Cys"ti*cule (ss"t-kl), n. Etym: [Dim. of cyst.] (Anat.)

Defn: An appendage of the vestibular ear sac of fishes. Owen.

CYSTID
Cys"tid (ss"td), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cystidea.

CYSTIDEA
Cys*tid"e*a (ss-td"-), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Crinoidea, mostly fossils of the Paleozoic rocks.
They were usually roundish or egg-shaped, and often unsymmetrical;
some were sessile, others had short stems.

CYSTIDEAN
Cys*tid"e*an (-td"-an), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cystidea.

CYSTINE
Cyst"ine (ss"tn; 104), n. Etym: [See Cyst.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance, C3H7NSO2, containing sulphur,
occuring as a constituent of certain rare urinary calculi, and
occasionally found as a sediment in urine.

CYSTIS
Cys"tis (ss"ts), n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A cyst. See Cyst.

CYSTITIS
Cys*ti"tis (ss-t"ts), n. Etym: [Cyst + -itis: cf. F. cystite.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the bladder.

CYSTOCARP
Cys"to*carp (ss"t-krp), n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A minute vesicle in a red seaweed, which contains the
reproductive spores.

CYSTOCELE
Cys"to*cele (-sl), n. Etym: [Gr. cystocele.] (Med.)

Defn: Hernia in which the urinary bladder protrudes; vesical hernia.

CYSTOID; CYSTOIDEAN
Cys"toid, Cys*toid"e*an, n.

Defn: Same as Cystidean.

CYSTOIDEA
Cys*toi"de*a (ss-toi"d-), n.

Defn: Same as Cystidea.

CYSTOLITH
Cys"to*lith (ss"t-lth), n. Etym: [Gr. -lith.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A concretion of mineral matter within a leaf or other part of a
plant.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A urinary calculus.

CYSTOLITHIC
Cys`to*lith"ic (-lth"k), a. (Med.)

Defn: Relating to stone in the bladder.

CYSTOPLAST
Cys"to*plast (-plst), n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A nucleated cell having an envelope or cell wall, as a red
blood corpuscle or an epithelial cell; a cell concerned in growth.

CYSTOSE
Cyst"ose (ss"ts), a.

Defn: Containing, or resembling, a cyst or cysts; cystic; bladdery.

CYSTOTOME
Cys"to*tome (ss"t-tm), n. Etym: [Gr. cystotome.] (Surg.)

Defn: A knife or instrument used in cystotomy.

CYSTOTOMY
Cys*tot"o*my (ss-tt"-m), n. Etym: [Gr. cystotomie.]

Defn: The act or practice of opening cysts; esp., the operation of
cutting into the bladder, as for the extraction of a calculus.

CYTHEREAN
Cyth`er*e"an (sth`r--"an), a. Etym: [L. Cythereus, from Cythera, Gr.
Cerigo, an island in the Ægean Sea, celebrated for the worship of
Venus.]

Defn: Pertaining to the goddess Venus.

CYTOBLAST
Cy"to*blast (s"t-blst), n. Etym: [Gr. -blast.] (Biol.)

Defn: The nucleus of a cell; the germinal or active spot of a
cellule, through or in which cell development takes place.

CYTOBLASTEMA
Cy`to*blas*te"ma (-bls-t"m), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: See Protoplasm.

CYTOCOCCUS
Cy`to*coc"cus (-kk"ks), n.; pl. Cytococci (-s. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
(Biol.)

Defn: The nucleus of the cytula or parent cell. Hæckel.

CYTODE
Cy"tode (s"td), n. Etym: [Gr. Cyst.] (Biol.)

Defn: A nonnucleated mass of protoplasm, the supposed simplest form
of independent life differing from the amoeba, in which nuclei are
present.

CYTOGENESIS
Cy`to*gen"e*sis (s`t-jn"-ss), n. Etym: [Gr. genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: Development of cells in animal and vegetable organisms. See
Gemmation, Budding, Karyokinesis; also Cell development, under Cell.

CYTOGENIC; CYTOGENETIC
Cy`to*gen"ic (s`t-jn"k), Cy`to*ge*net"ic (-j-nt"k), a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to cytogenesis or cell development.

CYTOGENOUS
Cy*tog"e*nous (s-tj"-ns), a. (Anat.)

Defn: Producing cells; -- applied esp. to lymphatic, or adenoid,
tissue.

CYTOGENY
Cy*tog"e*ny (-n), n . (Biol.)

Defn: Cell production or development; cytogenesis.

CYTOID
Cy"toid (s"toid), a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Cell-like; -- applied to the corpuscles of lymph, blood, chyle,
etc.

CYTOPLASM
Cy"to*plasm (s"t-plz'm), n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The substance of the body of a cell, as distinguished from the
karyoplasma, or substance of the nucleus.
 -- Cy`to*plas"mic (-pl, a.

CYTULA
Cyt"u*la (st"-l), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The fertilized egg cell or parent cell, from the development of
which the child or other organism is formed. Hæckel.

CZAR
Czar (zär), n. Etym: [Russ. tsare, fr. L. Caesar Cæsar; cf. OPol.
czar, Pol. car. ]

Defn: A king; a chief; the title of the emperor of Russia. [Written
also tzar.]

CZAREVNA
Cza*rev"na (z-rv"n), n. Etym: [Russ. tsarevna.]

Defn: The title of the wife of the czarowitz.

CZARINA
Cza*ri"na (z-r"n), n. Etym: [Cf. G. Zarin, Czarin, fem., Russ.
tsaitsa.]

Defn: The title of the empress of Russia.

CZARINIAN
Cza*rin"i*an (z-rn"-an), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the czar or the czarina; czarish.

CZARISH
Czar"ish (zr"sh), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the czar.

CZAROWITZ
Czar"o*witz (zr"-wts or tr"-vch), n.; pl. Czarowitzes (-. Etym:
[Russ. tsar.]

Defn: The title of the eldest son of the czar of Russia.

CZECH
Czech (chk; 204), n.

1. One of the Czechs.

2. The language of the Czechs (often called Bohemian), the harshest
and richest of the Slavic languages.

CZECHIC
Czech"ic (chk"k), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Czechs. "One Czechic realm." The
Nation.

CZECHS
Czechs (chks), n. pl.; sing. Czech. Etym: [Named after their
chieftain, Czech.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: The most westerly branch of the great Slavic family of nations,
numbering now more than 6,000,000, and found principally in Bohemia
and Moravia.

[END]

End of Project Gutenberg's Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***

***** This file should be named 29765-8.txt or 29765-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/7/6/29765/

Produced by Graham Lawrence

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
