The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***




Produced by Graham Lawrence

[START]

I

1. I, the ninth letter of the English alphabet, takes its form from
the Phoenician, through the Latin and the Greek. The Phoenician
letter was probably of Egyptian origin. Its original value was nearly
the same as that of the Italian I, or long e as in mete.
Etymologically I is most closely related to e, y, j, g; as in dint,
dent, beverage, L. bibere; E. kin, AS. cynn; E. thin, AS. ynne; E.
dominion, donjon, dungeon. In English I has two principal vowel
sounds: the long sound, as in pine, ice; and the short sound, as in
pîn. It has also three other sounds: (a) That of e in term, as in
thirst. (b) That of e in mete (in words of foreign origin), as in
machine, pique, regime. (c) That of consonant y (in many words in
which it precedes another vowel), as in bunion, million, filial,
Christian, etc. It enters into several digraphs, as in fail, field,
seize, feign. friend; and with o often forms a proper diphtong, as in
oil, join, coin.

See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 98-106.

Note: The dot which we place over the small or lower case i dates
only from the 14th century. The sounds of I and J were originally
represented by the same character, and even after the introduction of
the form J into English dictionaries, words containing these letters
were, till a comparatively recent time, classed together.

2. In our old authors, I was often used for ay (or aye), yes, which
is pronounced nearly like it.

3. As a numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2, etc.

I-
I-, prefix.

Defn: See Y-.

I
I, pron. [poss. My or Mine (; object. Me. pl. nom. We (; poss. Our or
Ours (; object. Us.] Etym: [OE. i, ich, ic, AS. ic; akin to OS. & D.
ik, OHG. ih, G. ich, Icel. ek, Dan. jeg, Sw. jag, Goth. ik, OSlav.
az', Russ. ia, W. i, L. ego, Gr. aham. sq. root179. Cf. Egoism.]

Defn: The nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the
word with which a speaker or writer denotes himself.

IAMATOLOGY
I*am`a*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Med.)

Defn: Materia Medica; that branch of therapeutics which treats of
remedies.

IAMB
I"amb, n. Etym: [Cf. F. iambe. See Lambus.]

Defn: An iambus or iambic. [R.]

IAMBIC
I*am"bic, a. Etym: [L. iambicus, Gr. iambique.]

1. (Pros.)

Defn: Consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one, or of an
unaccented syllable followed by an accented; as, an iambic foot.

2. Pertaining to, or composed of, iambics; as, an iambic verse;
iambic meter. See Lambus.

IAMBIC
I*am"bic, n.

1. (Pros.)
(a) An iambic foot; an iambus.
(b) A verse composed of iambic feet.

Note: The following couplet consists of iambic verses.
Thy gen- | ius calls | thee not | to pur- | chase fame In keen | iam-
| bics, but | mild an- | agram. Dryden.

2. A satirical poem (such poems having been anciently written in
iambic verse); a satire; a lampoon.

IAMBICAL
I*am"bic*al, a.

Defn: Iambic. [Obs. or R.]

IAMBICALLY
I*am"bic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a iambic manner; after the manner of iambics.

IAMBIZE
I*am"bize, v. t. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To satirize in iambics; to lampoon. [R.]

IAMBUS
I*am"bus, n.; pl. L. Iambi, E. Iambuses. Etym: [L. iambus, Gr. jacere
to throw. Cf. Jet a shooting forth.] (Pros.)

Defn: A foot consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one,
as in âmans, or of an unaccented syllable followed by an accented
one, as invent; an iambic. See the Couplet under Iambic, n.

IANTHINA
I*an"thi*na, n.; pl. L. Ianthinæ, E. Ianthinas. Etym: [NL., fr. L.
ianthinus violet-blue, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any gastropod of the genus Ianthina, of which various species
are found living in mid ocean; -- called also purple shell, and
violet snail. [Written also janthina.]

Note: It floats at the surface by means of a raft, which it
constructs by forming and uniting together air bubbles of hardened
mucus. The Tyrian purple of the ancients was obtained in part from
mollusks of this genus.

IATRALIPTIC
I*a`tra*lip"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. iatraliptique.]

Defn: Treating diseases by anointing and friction; as, the
iatraliptic method. [Written also iatroleptic.]

IATRIC; IATRICAL
I*at"ric, I*at"ric*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to medicine, or to medical men.

IATROCHEMICAL
I*a`tro*chem"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to iatrochemistry, or to the iatrochemists.

IATROCHEMIST
I*a`tro*chem"ist, n. Etym: [Gr. chemist.]

Defn: A physician who explained or treated diseases upon chemical
principles; one who practiced iatrochemistry.

IATROCHEMISTRY
I*a`tro*chem"is*try, n.

Defn: Chemistry applied to, or used in, medicine; -- used especially
with reference to the doctrines in the school of physicians in
Flanders, in the 17th century, who held that health depends upon the
proper chemical relations of the fluids of the body, and who
endeavored to explain the conditions of health or disease by chemical
principles.

IATROMATHEMATICAL
I*a`tro*math`e*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to iatromathematicians or their doctrine.

IATROMATHEMATICIAN
I*a`tro*math`e*ma*ti"cian, n. Etym: [Gr. mathematician.] (Hist. Med.)

Defn: One of a school of physicians in Italy, about the middle of the
17th century, who tried to apply the laws of mechanics and
mathematics to the human body, and hence were eager student of
anatomy; -- opposed to the iatrochemists.

IBERIAN
I*be"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Iberia.

IBEX
I"bex, n.; pl. E. Ibexes, L. Ibices. Etym: [L., a kind of goat, the
chamois.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of wild goats having very large,
recurved horns, transversely ridged in front; -- called also
steinbok.

Note: The Alpine ibex (Capra ibex) is the best known. The Spanish, or
Pyrenean, ibex (C. Hispanica) has smoother and more spreading horns.

IBIDEM
I*bi"dem, adv. Etym: [L.]

Defn: In the same place; -- abbreviated ibid. or ib.

IBIS
I"bis, n. Etym: [L. ibis, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the genus Ibis and several allied genera, of the
family Ibidæ, inhabiting both the Old World and the New. Numerous
species are known. They are large, wading birds, having a long,
curved beak, and feed largely on reptiles.

Note: The sacred ibis of the ancient Egyptians (Ibis Æthiopica) has
the head and neck black, without feathers. The plumage of the body
and wings is white, except the tertiaries, which are lengthened and
form a dark purple plume. In ancient times this bird was extensively
domesticated in Egypt, but it is now seldom seen so far north. The
glossy ibis (Plegadis autumnalis), which is widely distributed both
in the Old World and the New, has the head and neck feathered, except
between the eyes and bill; the scarlet ibis (Guara rubra) and the
white ibis (G. alba) inhabit the West Indies and South America, and
are rarely found in the United States. The wood ibis (Tantalus
loculator) of America belongs to the Stork family (Ciconidæ). See
Wood ibis.

-IBLE
-i*ble

Defn: . See -able.

IBSENISM
Ib"sen*ism, n.

Defn: The dramatic practice or purpose characteristic of the writings
of Henrik Ibsen (1828-1906), Norwegian poet and dramatist, whose
best-known plays deal with conventional hypocrisies, the story in
each play thus developing a definite moral problem.

-IC
-ic. Etym: [L. -icus, Gr. ique.]

1. A suffix signifying, in general, relating to, or characteristic
of; as, historic, hygienic, telegraphic, etc.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A suffix, denoting that the element indicated enters into
certain compounds with its highest valence, or with a valence
relatively higher than in compounds where the name of the element
ends in -ous; as, ferric, sulphuric. It is also used in the general
sense of pertaining to; as, hydric, sodic, calcic.

ICARIAN
I*ca"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Icarius, Gr.

Defn: Soaring too high for safety, like Icarus; adventurous in
flight.

ICE
Ice, n. Etym: [OE. is, iis, AS. is; aksin to D. ijs, G. eis, OHG. is,
Icel. iss, Sw. is, Dan. iis, and perh. to E. iron.]

1. Water or other fluid frozen or reduced to the solid state by cold;
frozen water. It is a white or transparent colorless substance,
crystalline, brittle, and viscoidal. Its specific gravity (0.92, that
of water at 4° C. being 1.0) being less than that of water, ice
floats.

Note: Water freezes at 32° F. or 0° Cent., and ice melts at the same
temperature. Ice owes its cooling properties to the large amount of
heat required to melt it.

2. Concreted sugar. Johnson.

3. Water, cream, custard, etc., sweetened, flavored, and artificially
frozen.

4. Any substance having the appearance of ice; as, camphor ice.
Anchor ice, ice which sometimes forms about stones and other objects
at the bottom of running or other water, and is thus attached or
anchored to the ground.
 -- Bay ice, ice formed in bays, fiords, etc., often in extensive
fields which drift out to sea.
 -- Ground ice, anchor ice.
 -- Ice age (Geol.), the glacial epoch or period. See under Glacial.
 -- Ice anchor (Naut.), a grapnel for mooring a vessel to a field of
ice. Kane.
 -- Ice blink Etym: [Dan. iisblink], a streak of whiteness of the
horizon, caused by the reflection of light from ice not yet in sight.
 -- Ice boat. (a) A boat fitted with skates or runners, and propelled
on ice by sails; an ice yacht. (b) A strong steamboat for breaking a
channel through ice.
 -- Ice box or chest, a box for holding ice; a box in which things
are kept cool by means of ice; a refrigerator.
 -- Ice brook, a brook or stream as cold as ice. [Poetic] Shak.
 -- Ice cream Etym: [for iced cream], cream, milk, or custard,
sweetened, flavored, and frozen.
 -- Ice field, an extensive sheet of ice.
 -- Ice float, Ice floe, a sheet of floating ice similar to an ice
field, but smaller.
 -- Ice foot, shore ice in Arctic regions; an ice belt. Kane.
 -- Ice house, a close-covered pit or building for storing ice.
 -- Ice machine (Physics), a machine for making ice artificially, as
by the production of a low temperature through the sudden expansion
of a gas or vapor, or the rapid evaporation of a volatile liquid.
 -- Ice master. See Ice pilot (below).
 -- Ice pack, an irregular mass of broken and drifting ice.
 -- Ice paper, a transparent film of gelatin for copying or
reproducing; papier glacé.
 -- Ice petrel (Zoöl.), a shearwater (Puffinus gelidus) of the
Antarctic seas, abundant among floating ice.
 -- Ice pick, a sharp instrument for breaking ice into small pieces.
 -- Ice pilot, a pilot who has charge of a vessel where the course is
obstructed by ice, as in polar seas; -- called also ice master.
 -- Ice pitcher, a pitcher adapted for ice water.
 -- Ice plow, a large tool for grooving and cutting ice. ice
sculpture = a sculpture carved from a block of ice, often used for
decorating restaurants. ice show an entertainment consisting of ice
skaters performing figure-skating on a sheet of ice, usually in an
arena, often accompanied by music.
 -- Ice sludge, bay ice broken small by the wind or waves; sludge.
 -- Ice spar (Min.), a variety of feldspar, the crystals of which are
very clear like ice; rhyacolite.
 -- Ice tongs, large iron nippers for handling ice.
 -- Ice water. (a) Water cooled by ice. (b) Water formed by the
melting of ice.
 -- Ice yacht. See Ice boat (above).
 -- To break the ice. See under Break.
 -- Water ice, a confection consisting of water sweetened, flavored,
and frozen.

ICE
Ice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Iced; p. pr. & vb. n. Icing.]

1. To cover with ice; to convert into ice, or into something
resembling ice.

2. To cover with icing, or frosting made of sugar and milk or white
of egg; to frost, as cakes, tarts, etc.

3. To chill or cool, as with ice; to freeze.

ICEBERG
Ice"berg`, n. Etym: [Prob. of Scand. origin; cf. Dan. iisbierg, Sw.
isberg, properly, a mountain of ice. See Ice, and Berg.]

Defn: A large mass of ice, generally floating in the ocean.

Note: Icebergs are large detached portions of glaciers, which in cold
regions often project into the sea.

ICEBIRD
Ice"bird`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Arctic sea bird, as the Arctic fulmar.

ICEBOUND
Ice"bound`, a.

Defn: Totally surrounded with ice, so as to be incapable of
advancing; as, an icebound vessel; also, surrounded by or fringed
with ice so as to hinder easy access; as, an icebound coast.

ICE-BUILT
Ice"-built`, a.

1. Composed of ice.

2. Loaded with ice. "Ice-built mountains." Gray.

ICED
Iced, a.

1. Covered with ice; chilled with ice; as, iced water.

2. Covered with something resembling ice, as sugar icing; frosted;
as, iced cake. Iced cream. Same as Ice cream, under Ice.

ICEFALL
Ice"fall`, n.

Defn: A frozen waterfall, or mass of ice resembling a frozen
waterfall. Coleridge.

ICELANDER
Ice"land*er, n.

Defn: A native, or one of the Scandinavian people, of Iceland.

ICELANDIC
Ice*lan"dic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Iceland; relating to, or resembling, the
Icelanders.

ICELANDIC
Ice*lan"dic, n.

Defn: The language of the Icelanders. It is one of the Scandinavian
group, and is more nearly allied to the Old Norse than any other
language now spoken.

ICELAND MOSS
Ice"land moss`. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of lichen (Cetraria Icelandica) found from the Arctic
regions to the North Temperate zone. It furnishes a nutritious jelly
and other forms of food, and is used in pulmonary complaints as a
demulcent.

ICELAND SPAR
Ice"land spar`. (Min.)

Defn: A transparent variety of calcite, the best of which is obtained
in Iceland. It is used for the prisms of the polariscope, because of
its strong double refraction. Cf. Calcite.

ICEMAN
Ice"man, n.; pl. Icemen (.

1. A man who is skilled in traveling upon ice, as among glaciers.

2. One who deals in ice; one who retails or delivers ice.

ICE PLANT
Ice" plant`. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Mesembryanthemum crystallinum), sprinkled with
pellucid, watery vesicles, which glisten like ice. It is native along
the Mediterranean, in the Canaries, and in South Africa. Its juice is
said to be demulcent and diuretic; its ashes are used in Spain in
making glass. Ice-skater = one who skates on ice wearing an ice
skate; esp. an athlete who performs athletic or artistic movements on
a sheet of ice, wearing ice skates; including speed skater and figure
skater

ICEQUAKE
Ice"quake`, n.

Defn: The crash or concussion attending the breaking up of masses of
ice, -- often due to contraction from extreme cold.

ICH
Ich, pron.

Defn: I. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Note: In the Southern dialect of Early English this is the regular
form. Cf. Ik.

ICHNEUMON
Ich*neu"mon, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any carnivorous mammal of the genus Herpestes, and family
Viverridæ. Numerous species are found in Asia and Africa. The
Egyptian species(H. ichneumon), which ranges to Spain and Palestine,
is noted for destroying the eggs and young of the crocodile as well
as various snakes and lizards, and hence was considered sacred by the
ancient Egyptians. The common species of India (H. griseus), known as
the mongoose, has similar habits and is often domesticated. It is
noted for killing the cobra.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any hymenopterous insect of the family Ichneumonidæ, of which
several thousand species are known, belonging to numerous genera.

Note: The female deposits her eggs upon, or in, the bodies of other
insects, such as caterpillars, plant lice, etc. The larva lives upon
the internal tissues of the insect in which it is parasitic, and
finally kills it. Hence, many of the species are beneficial to
agriculture by destroying noxious insects. Ichneumon fly. See
Ichneumon, 2.

ICHNEUMONIDAN
Ich`neu*mon"i*dan, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Ichneumonidæ, or ichneumon flies.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Ichneumonidæ.

ICHNEUMONIDES
Ich`neu*mon"i*des, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Ichneumon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ichneumon flies.

ICHNITE
Ich"nite, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A fossil footprint; as, the ichnites in the Triassic sandstone.
Page.

ICHNOGRAPHIC; ICHNOGRAPHICAL
Ich`no*graph"ic, Ich`no*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
ichonographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to ichonography; describing a ground plot.

ICHNOGRAPHY
Ich*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. ichonographie.] (Drawing)

Defn: A horizontal section of a building or other object, showing its
true dimensions according to a geometric scale; a ground plan; a map;
also, the art of making such plans.

ICHNOLITE
Ich"no*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.]

Defn: A fossil footprint; an ichnite.

ICHNOLITHOLOGY
Ich`no*li*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -lith + -logy.]

Defn: Same as Ichnology. Hitchcock.

ICHNOLOGICAL
Ich`no*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ichnology.

ICHNOLOGY
Ich*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Geol.)

Defn: The branch of science which treats of fossil footprints.

ICHNOSCOPY
Ich*nos"co*py, n. Etym: [Gr. -scopy.]

Defn: The search for the traces of anything. [R.]

ICHOR
I"chor, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ichor.]

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: An ethereal fluid that supplied the place of blood in the veins
of the gods.

2. A thin, acrid, watery discharge from an ulcer, wound, etc.

ICHORHAEMIA
I`chor*hæ"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Infection of the blood with ichorous or putrid substances.

ICHOROUS
I"chor*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ichoreux.]

Defn: Of or like ichor; thin; watery; serous; sanious.

ICHTHIDIN
Ich"thi*din, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A substance from the egg yolk of osseous fishes.

ICHTHIN
Ich"thin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance resembling vitellin, present in the egg
yolk of cartilaginous fishes.

ICHTHULIN
Ich"thu*lin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A substance from the yolk of salmon's egg.

ICHTHUS
Ich"thus, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: In early Christian and eccesiastical art, an emblematic fish,
or the Greek word for fish, which combined the initials of the Greek
words

ICHTHYIC
Ich"thy*ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, fishes.

ICHTHYOCOL; ICHTHYOCOLLA
Ich"thy*o*col, Ich`thy*o*col"la, n. Etym: [L. ichthyocolla, Gr.
ichthyocolle.]

Defn: Fish glue; isinglass; a glue prepared from the sounds of
certain fishes.

ICHTHYOCOPROLITE
Ich`thy*o*cop"ro*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. coprolite.] (Geol.)

Defn: Fossil dung of fishes.

ICHTHYODORULITE
Ich`thy*o*dor"u*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the spiny plates foundon the back and tail of certain
skates.

ICHTHYOGRAPHY
Ich`thy*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. graphy: cf. F. ichthyographie.]

Defn: A treatise on fishes.

ICHTHYOID; ICHTHYOIDAL
Ich"thy*oid, Ich`thy*oid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Somewhat like a fish; having some of the characteristics of
fishes; -- said of some amphibians.

ICHTHYOL
Ich"thy*ol, n. [Gr. , , a fish + (prob.) L. oleum oil; but cf.
Ichthyolite.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oily substance prepared by the dry distillation of a
bituminous mineral containing fossil fishes. It is used in medicine
as a remedy in some forms of skin diseases.

ICHTHYOLATRY
Ich`thy*ol"a*try, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Worship of fishes, or of fish-shaped idols. Layard.

ICHTHYOLITE
Ich"thy*o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil fish, or fragment of a fish.

ICHTHYOLOGIC; ICHTHYOLOGICAL
Ich`thy*o*log"ic, Ich`thy*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
ichthyologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to ichthyology.

ICHTHYOLOGIST
Ich`thy*ol"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ichthyologiste.]

Defn: One versed in, or who studies, ichthyology.

ICHTHYOLOGY
Ich`thy*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. ichthyologie.]

Defn: The natural history of fishes; that branch of zoölogy which
relates to fishes, including their structure, classification, and
habits.

ICHTHYOMANCY
Ich"thy*o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy: cf. F. ichthyomancie.]

Defn: Divination by the heads or the entrails of fishes.

ICHTHYOMORPHA
Ich`thy*o*mor"pha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Urodela.

ICHTHYOMORPHIC; ICHTHYOMORPHOUS
Ich`thy*o*mor"phic, Ich`thy*o*mor"phous, a. Etym: [See
Ichthyomorpha.]

Defn: Fish-shaped; as, the ichthyomorphic idols of ancient Assyria.

ICHTHYOPHAGIST
Ich`thy*oph"a*gist, n. Etym: [See Ichthyophagous.]

Defn: One who eats, or subsists on, fish.

ICHTHYOPHAGOUS
Ich`thy*oph"a*gous, a. Etym: [L. ichthyophagus, Gr.

Defn: Eating, or subsisting on, fish.

ICHTHYOPHAGY
Ich`thy*oph"a*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. ichthyophagie.]

Defn: The practice of eating, or living upon, fish.

ICHTHYOPHTHALMITE
Ich`thy*oph*thal"mite, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: See Apophyllite. [R.]

ICHTHYOPHTHIRA
Ich`thy*oph*thi"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of copepod crustaceans, including numerous species
parasitic on fishes.

ICHTHYOPSIDA
Ich`thy*op"si*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A grand division of the Vertebrata, including the Amphibia and
Fishes.

ICHTHYOPTERYGIA
Ich`thy*op`te*ryg"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Ichthyopterygium.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: See Ichthyosauria.

ICHTHYOPTERYGIUM
Ich`thy*op`te*ryg"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The typical limb, or lateral fin, of fishes.

ICHTHYORNIS
Ich`thy*or"nis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of toothed birds found in the American
Cretaceous formation. It is remarkable for having biconcave vertebræ,
and sharp, conical teeth set in sockets. Its wings were well
developed. It is the type of the order Odontotormæ.

ICHTHYOSAUR
Ich"thy*o*saur, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ichthyosaure.] (Paleon.)

Defn: One of the Ichthyosaura.

ICHTHYOSAURIA
Ich`thy*o*sau"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Ichthyosaurus.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct order of marine reptiles, including Ichthyosaurus
and allied forms; -- called also Ichthyopterygia. They have not been
found later than the Cretaceous period.

ICHTHYOSAURIAN
Ich`thy*o*sau"ri*an, a. (Paleon.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Ichthyosauria.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Ichthyosauria.

ICHTHYOSAURUS
Ich`thy*o*sau"rus, n.; pl. Ichthyosauri. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
'ichqy`s, -y`os, a fish + say^ros a lizard.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of marine reptiles; -- so named from their
short, biconcave vertebræ, resembling those of fishes. Several
species, varying in length from ten to thirty feet, are known from
the Liassic, Oölitic, and Cretaceous formations.

ICHTHYOSIS
Ich`thy*o"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A disease in which the skin is thick, rough, and scaly; --
called also fishskin.
 -- Ich`thy*ot"ic, a.

ICHTHYOTOMIST
Ich`thy*ot"o*mist, n.

Defn: One skilled in ichthyotomy.

ICHTHYOTOMY
Ich`thy*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The anatomy or dissection of fishes. [R.]

ICHTHYS
Ich"thys, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: Same as Ichthus.

ICICLE
I"ci*cle, n. Etym: [OE. isikel, AS. isgicel; is ice + gicel icicle;
akin to Icel. jökull; cf. Gael. eigh ice, Ir. aigh.]

Defn: A pendent, and usually conical, mass of ice, formed by freezing
of dripping water; as, the icicles on the eaves of a house.

ICICLED
I"ci*cled, a.

Defn: Having icicles attached.

ICILY
I"ci*ly, adv.

Defn: In an icy manner; coldly.
Faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly null, Dead perfection,
no more. Tennyson.

ICINESS
I"ci*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being icy or very cold; frigidity.

ICING
I"cing, n.

Defn: A coating or covering resembling ice, as of sugar and milk or
white of egg; frosting.

ICKLE
Ic"kle, n. Etym: [OE. ikil. See Icicle.]

Defn: An icicle. [Prov. Eng.]

ICON
I"con, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: An image or representation; a portrait or pretended portrait.
Netherlands whose names and icons are published. Hakewill.

ICONICAL
I*con"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or consisting of, images, pictures, or
representations of any kind.

ICONISM
I"con*ism, n. Etym: [L. iconismus, Gr. iconisme.]

Defn: The formation of a figure, representation, or semblance; a
delineation or description.
Some kind of apish imitations, counterfeit iconisms. Cudworth.

ICONIZE
I"con*ize, v. t. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To form an image or likeness of. [R.] Cudworth.

ICONOCLASM
I*con"o*clasm, n. Etym: [Cf. F. iconoclasme. See Iconoclast.]

Defn: The doctrine or practice of the iconoclasts; image breaking.

ICONOCLAST
I*con"o*clast, n. Etym: [Gr. iconoclaste.]

1. A breaker or destroyer of images or idols; a determined enemy of
idol worship.

2. One who exposes or destroys impositions or shams; one who attacks
cherished beliefs; a radical.

ICONOCLASTIC
I*con`o*clas"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the iconoclasts, or to image breaking.
Milman.

ICONODULE; ICONODULIST
I*con"o*dule, I*con"o*du`list, n. Etym: [Gr. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who serves images; -- opposed to an iconoclast. Schaff-
Herzog Encyc.

ICONOGRAPH
I*con"o*graph, n. [See Iconography.]

Defn: An engraving or other picture or illustration for a book.

ICONOGRAPHER
I`co*nog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: A maker of images. Fairholt.

ICONOGRAPHIC
I*con`o*graph"ic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to iconography.

2. Representing by means of pictures or diagrams; as, an icongraphic
encyclopædia.

ICONOGRAPHY
I`co*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. iconographie.]

1. The art or representation by pictures or images; the description
or study of portraiture or representation, as of persons; as, the
iconography of the ancients.

2. The study of representative art in general. Christian iconography,
the study of the representations in art of the Deity, the persons of
the Trinity, angels, saints, virtues, vices, etc.

ICONOLATER
I`co*nol"a*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. iconolâtre.]

Defn: One who worships images.

ICONOLATRY
I`co*nol"a*try, n. Etym: [See Iconolater.]

Defn: The worship of images as symbols; -- distinguished from
idolatry, the worship of images themselves.

ICONOLOGY
I`co*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. iconologie.]

Defn: The discussion or description of portraiture or of
representative images. Cf. Iconography.

ICONOMACHY
I`co*nom"a*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Hostility to images as objects of worship. [R.]

ICONOMANIA
I`co*no*ma"ni*a, n. [NL. See Icon, and Mania.]

Defn: A mania or infatuation for icons, whether as objects of
devotion, bric-a-brac, or curios.

ICONOMICAL
I`co*nom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Opposed to pictures or images as objects of worship. [R.] Sir
T. Browne.

ICONOPHILIST
I`co*noph"i*list, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A student, or lover of the study, of iconography.

ICOSAHEDRAL
I`co*sa*he"dral, a. Etym: [See Icosahedron.] (Geom.)

Defn: Having twenty equal sides or faces.

ICOSAHEDRON
I`co*sa*he"dron, n. Etym: [Gr. (Geom.)

Defn: A solid bounded by twenty sides or faces. Regular icosahedron,
one of the five regular polyhedrons, bounded by twenty equilateral
triangules. Five triangules meet to form each solid angle of the
polyhedron.

ICOSANDRIA
I`co*san"dri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. icosandrie.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of plants, having twenty or more stamens
inserted in the calyx.

ICOSANDRIAN; ICOSANDROUS
I`co*san"dri*an, I`co*san"drous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to the class Icosandria; having twenty or more
stamens inserted in the calyx.

ICOSITETRAHEDRON
I`co*si*tet`ra*he"dron, n. Etym: [Gr. (Crystallog.)

Defn: A twenty-four-sided solid; a tetragonal trisoctahedron or
trapezohedron.

-ICS
-ics

Defn: . A suffix used in forming the names of certain sciences,
systems, etc., as acoustics, mathematics, dynamics, statistics,
politics, athletics.

Note: The names sciences ending in ics, as mathematics, mechanics,
metaphysics, optics, etc., are, with respect to their form, nouns in
the plural number. The plural form was probably introduced to mark
the complex nature of such sciences; and it may have been in
imitation of the use of the Greek plurals ics were construed with a
verb or a pronoun in the plural; but it is now generally considered
preferable to treat them as singular. In Greman we have die
Mathematik, die Mechanik, etc., and in French la metaphysique, la
optique, etc., corresponding to our mathematics, mechanics,
metaphysics, optics, etc.
Mathematics have for their object the consideration of whatever is
capable of being numbered or measured. John Davidson.
The citations subjoined will serve as examples of the best present
usage.
Ethics is the sciences of the laws which govern our actions as moral
agents. Sir W. Hamilton.
All parts of knowledge have their origin in metaphysics, and finally,
perhaps, revolve into it. De Quincey.
Mechanics, like pure mathematics, may be geometrical, or may be
analytical; that is, it may treat space either by a direct
consideration of its properties, or by a symbolical representation.
Whewell.

ICTERIC
Ic*ter"ic, n.

Defn: A remedy for the jaundice.

ICTERIC; ICTERICAL
Ic*ter"ic, Ic*ter"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. ictericus, Gr. ictérique.]

1. Pertaining to, or affected with, jaundice.

2. Good against the jaundice. Johnson.

ICTERITIOUS; ICTERITOUS
Ic`ter*i"tious, Ic*ter"i*tous, a.

Defn: Yellow; of the color of the skin when it is affected by the
jaundice.

ICTEROID
Ic"ter*oid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Of a tint resembling that produced by jaundice; yellow; as, an
icteroid tint or complexion.

ICTERUS
Ic"te*rus, n. Etym: [NL. See Icteric, a.] (Med.)

Defn: The jaundice.

ICTIC
Ic"tic, a. Etym: [L. ictus blow.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or caused by, a blow; sudden; abrupt. [R.] H.
Bushnell.

ICTUS
Ic"tus, n. Etym: [L., fr. icere, ictum, to strike.]

1. (Pros.)

Defn: The stress of voice laid upon accented syllable of a word. Cf.
Arsis.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A stroke or blow, as in a sunstroke, the sting of an insect,
pulsation of an artery, etc.

ICY
I"cy, a. [Compar. Icier; superl. Iciest.] Etym: [AS. isig. See Ice.]

1. Pertaining to, resembling, or abounding in, ice; cold; frosty.
"Icy chains." Shak. "Icy region." Boyle. "Icy seas." Pope.

2. Characterized by coldness, as of manner, influence, etc.;
chilling; frigid; cold.
Icy was the deportment with which Philip received these
demonstrations of affection. Motley.

ICY-PEARLED
I"cy-pearl`ed, a.

Defn: Spangled with ice.
Mounting up in icy-pearled car. Milton.

I'D
I'd

Defn: . A contraction from I would or I had.

ID
Id, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Leuciscus idus or Idus
idus) of Europe. A domesticated variety, colored like the goldfish,
is called orfe in Germany.

IDALIAN
I*da"li*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Idalium, a mountain city in Cyprus, or to
Venus, to whom it was sacred. "Idalian Aphrodité." Tennyson.

IDE
Ide, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Id.

-IDE
-ide. (Chem.)

Defn: A suffix used to denote: (a) The nonmetallic, or negative,
element or radical in a binary compound; as, oxide, sulphide,
chloride. (b) A compound which is an anhydride; as, glycolide,
phthalide. (c) Any one of a series of derivatives; as, indogenide,
glucoside, etc.

IDEA
I*de"a, n.; pl. Ideas. Etym: [L. idea, Gr. wit: cf. F. idée. See
Wit.]

1. The transcript, image, or picture of a visible object, that is
formed by the mind; also, a similar image of any object whatever,
whether sensible or spiritual.
Her sweet idea wandered through his thoughts. Fairfax.
Being the right idea of your father Both in your form and nobleness
of mind. Shak.
This representation or likeness of the object being transmitted from
thence [the senses] to the imagination, and lodged there for the view
and observation of the pure intellect, is aptly and properly called
its idea. P. Browne.

2. A general notion, or a conception formed by generalization.
Alice had not the slightest idea what latitude was. L. Caroll.

3. Hence: Any object apprehended, conceived, or thought of, by the
mind; a notion, conception, or thought; the real object that is
conceived or thought of.
Whatsoever the mind perceives in itself, or as the immediate object
of perception, thought, or undersanding, that I call idea. Locke.

4. A belief, option, or doctrine; a characteristic or controlling
principle; as, an essential idea; the idea of development.
That fellow seems to me to possess but one idea, and that is a wrong
one. Johnson.
What is now "idea" for us How infinite the fall of this word, since
the time where Milton sang of the Creator contemplating his newly-
created world, -"how it showed . . . Answering his great idea," -to
its present use, when this person "has an idea that the train has
started," and the other "had no idea that the dinner would be so
bad!" Trench.

5. A plan or purpose of action; intention; design.
I shortly afterwards set off for that capital, with an idea of
undertaking while there the translation of the work. W. Irving.

6. A rational conception; the complete conception of an object when
thought of in all its essential elements or constituents; the
necessary metaphysical or constituent attributes and relations, when
conceived in the abstract.

7. A fiction object or picture created by the imagination; the same
when proposed as a pattern to be copied, or a standard to be reached;
one of the archetypes or patterns of created things, conceived by the
Platonists to have excited objectively from eternity in the mind of
the Deity.
Thence to behold this new-created world, The addition of his empire,
how it showed In prospect from his throne, how good, how fair,
Answering his great idea. Milton.

Note: "In England, Locke may be said to have been the first who
naturalized the term in its Cartesian universality. When, in common
language, employed by Milton and Dryden, after Descartes, as before
him by Sidney, Spenser, Shakespeare, Hooker, etc., the meaning is
Platonic." Sir W. Hamilton. Abstract idea, Association of ideas, etc.
See under Abstract, Association, etc.

Syn.
 -- Notion; conception; thought; sentiment; fancy; image; perception;
impression; opinion; belief; observation; judgment; consideration;
view; design; intention; purpose; plan; model; pattern. There is
scarcely any other word which is subjected to such abusive treatment
as is the word idea, in the very general and indiscriminative way in
which it is employed, as it is used variously to signify almost any
act, state, or content of thought.

IDEAL
I*de"al, a. Etym: [L. idealis: cf. F. idéal.]

1. Existing in idea or thought; conceptional; intellectual; mental;
as, ideal knowledge.

2. Reaching an imaginary standard of excellence; fit for a model;
faultless; as, ideal beauty. Byron.
There will always be a wide interval between practical and ideal
excellence. Rambler.

3. Existing in fancy or imagination only; visionary; unreal.
"Planning ideal common wealth." Southey.

4. Teaching the doctrine of idealism; as, the ideal theory or
philosophy.

5. (Math.)

Defn: Imaginary.

Syn.
 -- Intellectual; mental; visionary; fanciful; imaginary; unreal;
impracticable; utopian.

IDEAL
I*de"al, n.

Defn: A mental conception regarded as a standard of perfection; a
model of excellence, beauty, etc.
The ideal is to be attained by selecting and assembling in one whole
the beauties and perfections which are usually seen in different
individuals, excluding everything defective or unseemly, so as to
form a type or model of the species. Thus, the Apollo Belvedere is
the ideal of the beauty and proportion of the human frame. Fleming.
Beau ideal. See Beau ideal.

IDEALESS
I*de"a*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of an idea.

IDEALISM
I*de"al*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. idéalisme.]

1. The quality or state of being ideal.

2. Conception of the ideal; imagery.

3. (Philos.)

Defn: The system or theory that denies the existence of material
bodies, and teaches that we have no rational grounds to believe in
the reality of anything but ideas and their relations.

IDEALIST
I*de"al*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. idéaliste.]

1. One who idealizes; one who forms picturesque fancies; one given to
romantic expectations.

2. One who holds the doctrine of idealism.

IDEALISTIC
I*de`al*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to idealists or their theories.

IDEALITY
I`de*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Idealities (.

1. The quality or state of being ideal.

2. The capacity to form ideals of beauty or perfection.

3. (Phren.)

Defn: The conceptive faculty.

IDEALIZATION
I*de`al*i*za"tion, n.

1. The act or process of idealizing.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: The representation of natural objects, scenes, etc., in such a
way as to show their most important characteristics; the study of the
ideal.

IDEALIZE
I*de"al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Idealized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Idealizing.]

1. To make ideal; to give an ideal form or value to; to attribute
ideal characteristics and excellences to; as, to idealize real life.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: To treat in an ideal manner. See Idealization, 2.

IDEALIZE
I*de"al*ize, v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. idéaliser.]

Defn: To form ideals.

IDEALIZER
I*de"al*i`zer, n.

Defn: An idealist.

IDEALLY
I*de"al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ideal manner; by means of ideals; mentally.

IDEALOGIC
I*de`a*log"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an idealogue, or to idealization.

IDEALOGUE
I*de"a*logue, n. Etym: [Idea + -logue, as in theologue: cf. F.
idéologue.]

Defn: One given to fanciful ideas or theories; a theorist; a
spectator. [R.] Mrs. Browning.

IDEAT; IDEATE
I*de"at, I*de"ate, n. Etym: [LL. ideatum. See Idea.] (Metaph.)

Defn: The actual existence supposed to correspond with an idea; the
correlate in real existence to the idea as a thought or existence.

IDEATE
I*de"ate, v. t.

1. To form in idea; to fancy. [R.]
The ideated man . . . as he stood in the intellect of God. Sir T.
Browne.

2. To apprehend in thought so as to fix and hold in the mind; to
memorize. [R.]

IDEATION
I`de*a"tion, n.

Defn: The faculty or capacity of the mind for forming ideas; the
exercise of this capacity; the act of the mind by which objects of
sense are apprehended and retained as objects of thought.
The whole mass of residua which have been accumulated . . . all enter
now into the process of ideation. J. D. Morell.

IDEATIONAL
I`de*a"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, ideation.
Certain sensational or ideational stimuli. Blackw. Mag.

IDEM
I"dem, pron. or adj. Etym: [L.]

Defn: The same; the same as above; -- often abbreviated id.

IDENTIC
I*den"tic, a.

Defn: Identical. [Obs.] Hudibras.

IDENTICAL
I*den"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. identique. See Identity.]

1. The same; the selfsame; the very same; not different; as, the
identical person or thing.
I can not remember a thing that happened a year ago, without a
conviction . . . that I, the same identical person who now remember
that event, did then exist. Reid.

2. Uttering sameness or the same truth; expressing in the predicate
what is given, or obviously implied, in the subject; tautological.
When you say body is solid, I say that you make an identical
proposition, because it is impossible to have the idea of body
without that of solidity. Fleming.
Identical equation (Alg.), an equation which is true for all values
of the algebraic symbols which enter into it.

IDENTICALLY
I*den"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an identical manner; with respect to identity. "Identically
the same." Bp. Warburton. "Identically different." Ross.

IDENTICALNESS
I*den"tic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being identical; sameness.

IDENTIFIABLE
I*den"ti*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being identified.

IDENTIFICATION
I*den`ti*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. identification.]

Defn: The act of identifying, or proving to be the same; also, the
state of being identified.

IDENTIFY
I*den"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Identified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Identifying.] Etym: [Cf. F. identifier. See Identity, and -fy.]

1. To make to be the same; to unite or combine in such a manner as to
make one; to treat as being one or having the same purpose or effect;
to consider as the same in any relation.
Every precaution is taken to identify the interests of the people and
of the rulers. D. Ramsay.
Let us identify, let us incorporate ourselves with the people. Burke.

2. To establish the identity of; to prove to be the same with
something described, claimed, or asserted; as, to identify stolen
property.

IDENTIFY
I*den"ti*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become the same; to coalesce in interest, purpose, use,
effect, etc. [Obs. or R.]
An enlightened self-interest, which, when well understood, they tell
us will identify with an interest more enlarged and public. Burke.

IDENTISM
I*den"tism, n. Etym: [See Identity.] (Metaph.)

Defn: The doctrine taught by Schelling, that matter and mind, and
subject and object, are identical in the Absolute; -- called also the
system or doctrine of identity.

IDENTITY
I*den"ti*ty, n.; pl. Identities. Etym: [F. identité, LL. identitas,
fr. L. idem the same, from the root of is he, that; cf. Skr. idam
this. Cf. Item.]

1. The state or quality of being identical, or the same; sameness.
Identity is a relation between our cognitions of a thing, not between
things themselves. Sir W. Hamilton.

2. The condition of being the same with something described or
asserted, or of possessing a character claimed; as, to establish the
identity of stolen goods.

3. (Math.)

Defn: An identical equation.

IDEO-
I"de*o-

Defn: . A combining form from the Gr. idea.

IDEOGENICAL
I`de*o*gen"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or relating to ideology.

IDEOGENY
I`de*og"e*ny, n. Etym: [Ideo- + -geny, from the same root as Gr.
idéogénie.]

Defn: The science which treats of the origin of ideas.

IDEOGRAM
I*de"o*gram, n. Etym: [Ideo- + -gram; cf. F. idéograme.]

1. An original, pictorial element of writing; a kind of hieroglyph
expressing no sound, but only an idea.
Ideograms may be defined to be pictures intended to represent either
things or thoughts. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).
You might even have a history without language written or spoken, by
means of ideograms and gesture. J. Peile.

2. A symbol used for convenience, or for abbreviation; as, 1, 2, 3,
+, -,

3. A phonetic symbol; a letter.

IDEOGRAPH
I*de"o*graph, n.

Defn: Same as Ideogram.

IDEOGRAPHIC; IDEOGRAPHICAL
I`de*o*graph"ic, I`de*o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. idéographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an ideogram; representing ideas by symbols,
independently of sounds; as, 9 represents not the word "nine," but
the idea of the number itself.
 -- I`de*o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

IDEOGRAPHICS
I`de*o*graph"ics, n.

Defn: The system of writing in ideographic characters; also, anything
so written.

IDEOGRAPHY
I`de*og"ra*phy, n.

Defn: The representation of ideas independently of sounds, or in an
ideographic manner, as sometimes is done in shorthand writing, etc.

IDEOLOGICAL
I`de*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. idéologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to ideology.

IDEOLOGIST
I`de*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who treats of ideas; one who theorizes or idealizes; one
versed in the science of ideas, or who advocates the doctrines of
ideology.

IDEOLOGY
I`de*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Ideo- + -logy: cf. F. idéologie.]

1. The science of ideas. Stewart.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: A theory of the origin of ideas which derives them exclusively
from sensation.

Note: By a double blunder in philosophy and Greek, idéologie . . .
has in France become the name peculiarly distinctive of that
philosophy of mind which exclusively derives our knowledge from
sensation. Sir W. Hamilton.

IDEO-MOTION
I`de*o-mo"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: An ideo-motor movement.

IDEO-MOTOR
I`de*o-mo"tor, a. Etym: [Ideo- + motor.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Applied to those actions, or muscular movements, which are
automatic expressions of dominant ideas, rather than the result of
distinct volitional efforts, as the act of expressing the thoughts in
speech, or in writing, while the mind is occupied in the composition
of the sentence. Carpenter.

IDES
Ides, n. pl. Etym: [L. idus: cf. F. ides.] (Anc. Rom. Calendar)

Defn: The fifteenth day of March, May, July, and October, and the
thirteenth day of the other months.
The ides of March remember. Shak.

Note: Eight days in each month often pass by this name, but only one
strictly receives it, the others being called respectively the day
before the ides, and so on, backward, to the eightth from the ides.

IDIO-
Id"i*o-

Defn: . A combining form from the Greek private, personal, peculiar,
distinct.

IDIOBLAST
Id"i*o*blast, n. Etym: [Ideo- + -blast.] (Bot.)

Defn: An individual cell, differing greatly from its neighbours in
regard to size, structure, or contents.

IDIOCRASIS
Id`i*o*cra"sis, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Idiocracy.

IDIOCRASY
Id`i*oc"ra*sy, n.; pl. Idiocrasies. Etym: [Idio- + Gr. idiocrasie.]

Defn: Peculiarity of constitution; that temperament, or state of
constitution, which is peculiar to a person; idiosyncrasy.

IDIOCRATIC; IDIOCRATICAL
Id`i*o*crat"ic, Id`i*o*crat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Peculiar in constitution or temperament; idiosyncratic.

IDIOCY
Id"i*o*cy, n. Etym: [From idiot; cf. Gr. Idiot, and cf. Idiotcy.]

Defn: The condition or quality of being an idiot; absence, or marked
deficiency, of sense and intelligence.
I will undertake to convict a man of idiocy, if he can not see the
proof that three angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles.
F. W. Robertson.

IDIOCYCLOPHANOUS
Id`i*o*cy*cloph"a*nous, a. Etym: [Idio- + Gr. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Same as Idiophanous.

IDIOELECTRIC
Id`i*o*e*lec"tric, a. Etym: [Idio- + electric: cf. F.
idioélectrique.] (Physics)

Defn: Electric by virtue of its own peculiar properties; capable of
becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to anelectric.
 -- n.

Defn: An idioelectric substance.

IDIOGRAPH
Id"i*o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A mark or signature peculiar to an individual; a trade-mark.

IDIOGRAPHIC; IDIOGRAPHICAL
Id`i*o*graph"ic, Id`i*o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an idiograph.

IDIOLATRY
Id`i*ol"a*try, n. Etym: [Idio- + Gr.

Defn: Self-worship; excessive self-esteem.

IDIOM
Id"i*om, n. Etym: [F. idiome, L. idioma, fr. Gr. suus, and to E. so.]

1. The syntactical or structural form peculiar to any language; the
genius or cast of a language.
Idiom may be employed loosely and figuratively as a synonym of
language or dialect, but in its proper sense it signifies the
totality of the general rules of construction which characterize the
syntax of a particular language and distinguish it from other
tongues. G. P. Marsh.
By idiom is meant the use of words which is peculiar to a particular
language. J. H. Newman.
He followed their language [the Latin], but did not comply with the
idiom of ours. Dryden.

2. An expression conforming or appropriate to the peculiar structural
form of a language; in extend use, an expression sanctioned by usage,
having a sense peculiar to itself and not agreeing with the logical
sense of its structural form; also, the phrase forms peculiar to a
particular author.
Some that with care true eloquence shall teach, And to just idioms
fix our doubtful speech. Prior.
Sometimes we identify the words with the object -- though be courtesy
of idiom rather than in strict propriety of language. Coleridge.
Every good writer has much idiom. Landor.
It is not by means of rules that such idioms as the following are
made current: "I can make nothing of it." "He treats his subject
home." Dryden. "It is that within us that makes for righteousness."
M.Arnold. Gostwick (Eng. Gram. )

3. Dialect; a variant form of a language.

Syn.
 -- Dialect.
 -- Idiom, Dialect. The idioms of a language belong to its very
structure; its dialects are varieties of expression ingrafted upon it
in different localities or by different professions. Each county of
England has some peculiarities of dialect, and so have most of the
professions, while the great idioms of the language are everywhere
the same. See Language.

IDIOMATIC; IDIOMATICAL
Id`i*o*mat"ic, Id`i*o*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or conforming to, the mode of expression
peculiar to a language; as, an idiomatic meaning; an idiomatic
phrase.
 -- Id`i*o*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

IDIOMORPHIC
Id`i*o*morph"ic, a.

Defn: Idiomorphous.

IDIOMORPHOUS
Id`i*o*morph"ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Having a form of its own.

2. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Apperaing in distinct crystals; -- said of the mineral
constituents of a rock.

IDIOMUSCULAR
Id`i*o*mus"cu*lar, a. Etym: [Idio- + muscular.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Applied to a semipermanent contraction of a muscle, produced by
a mechanical irritant.

IDIOPATHETIC
Id`i*o*pa*thet"ic, a.

Defn: Idiopathic. [R.]

IDIOPATHIC; IDIOPATHICAL
Id`i*o*path"ic, Id`i*o*path"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. idiopathique.]
(Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to idiopathy; characterizing a disease arising
primarily, and not in consequence of some other disease or injury; --
opposed to symptomatic, sympathetic, and traumatic.
 -- Id`i*o*path"ic*al*ly, adv.

IDIOPATHY
Id`i*op"a*thy, n.; pl. Idiopathies. Etym: [Gr. idiopathie.]

1. A peculiar, or individual, characteristic or affection.
All men are so full of their own fancies and idiopathies, that they
scarce have the civility to interchange any words with a stranger.
Dr. H. More.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid state or condition not preceded or occasioned by any
other disease; a primary disease.

IDIOPHANOUS
Id`i*oph"a*nous, a. Etym: [Idio- + (Crystallog.)

Defn: Exhibiting interference figures without the aid of a
polariscope, as certain crystals.

IDIOPLASM
Id"i*o*plasm, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Idioplasma.

IDIOPLASMA
Id`i*o*plas"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: That portion of the cell protoplasm which is the seat of all
active changes, and which carries on the function of hereditary
transmission; -- distinguished from the other portion, which is
termed nutritive plasma. See Hygroplasm.

IDIOREPULSIVE
Id`i*o*re*pul"sive, a. Etym: [Idio- + repulsive.]

Defn: Repulsive by itself; as, the idiorepulsive power of heat.

IDIOSYNCRASY
Id`i*o*syn"cra*sy, n.; pl. Idiosyncrasies. Etym: [Gr. idiosyncrasie.
See Idiom, and Crasis.]

Defn: A peculiarity of physical or mental constitution or
temperament; a characteristic belonging to, and distinguishing, an
individual; characteristic susceptibility; idiocrasy; eccentricity.
The individual mind . . . takes its tone from the idiosyncrasies of
the body. I. Taylor.

IDIOSYNCRATIC; IDIOSYNCRATICAL
Id`i*o*syn*crat"ic, Id`i*o*syn*crat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of peculiar temper or disposition; belonging to one's peculiar
and individual character.

IDIOT
Id"i*ot, n. Etym: [F. idiot, L. idiota an uneducated, ignorant, ill-
informed person, Gr. Idiom.]

1. A man in private station, as distinguished from one holding a
public office. [Obs.]
St. Austin affirmed that the plain places of Scripture are sufficient
to all laics, and all idiots or private persons. Jer. Taylor.

2. An unlearned, ignorant, or simple person, as distinguished from
the educated; an ignoramus. [Obs.]
Christ was received of idiots, of the vulgar people, and of the
simpler sort, while he was rejected, despised, and persecuted even to
death by the high priests, lawyers, scribes, doctors, and rabbis. C.
Blount.

3. A human being destitute of the ordinary intellectual powers,
whether congenital, developmental, or accidental; commonly, a person
without understanding from birth; a natural fool; a natural; an
innocent.
Life . . . is a tale Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
Signifying nothing. Shak.

4. A fool; a simpleton; -- a term of reproach.
Weenest thou make an idiot of our dame Chaucer.

IDIOTCY
Id"i*ot*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. Idiocy.]

Defn: Idiocy. [R.]

IDIOTED
Id"i*ot*ed, a.

Defn: Rendered idiotic; befooled. [R.] Tennyson.

IDIOTHERMIC
Id`i*o*ther"mic, a. Etym: [Idio- + thermic.]

Defn: Self-heating; warmed, as the body of animal, by process going
on within itself.

IDIOTIC; IDIOTICAL
Id`i*ot"ic, Id`i*ot"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. idioticus ignorant, Gr.
idiotique. See Idiot.]

1. Common; simple. [Obs.] Blackwall.

2. Pertaining to, or like, an idiot; characterized by idiocy;
foolish; fatuous; as, an idiotic person, speech, laugh, or action.

IDIOTICALLY
Id`i*ot"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a idiotic manner.

IDIOTICON
Id`i*ot"i*con, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Idiot.]

Defn: A dictionary of a peculiar dialect, or of the words and phrases
peculiar to one part of a country; a glossary.

IDIOTISH
Id"i*ot*ish, a.

Defn: Like an idiot; foolish.

IDIOTISM
Id"i*ot*ism, n. Etym: [F. idiotisme, L. idiotismus the way of fashion
of a private person, the common or vulgar manner of speaking, Gr.
Idiot.]

1. An idiom; a form, mode of expression, or signification, peculiar
to a language.
Scholars sometimes give terminations and idiotisms, suitable to their
native language, unto words newly invented. M. Hale.

2. Lack of knowledge or mental capacity; idiocy; foolishness.
Worse than mere ignorance or idiotism. Shaftesbury.
The running that adventure is the greatist idiotism. Hammond.

IDIOTIZE
Id"i*ot*ize, v. i.

Defn: To become stupid. [R.]

IDIOTRY
Id"i*ot*ry, n.

Defn: Idiocy. [R.] Bp. Warburton.

IDLE
I"dle, a. [Compar. Idler; superl. Idlest.] Etym: [OE. idel, AS. idel
vain, empty, useless; akin to OS. idal, D. ijdel, OHG. ital vain,
empty, mere, G. eitel, Dan. & Sw. idel mere, pure, and prob. to Gr.
Ether.]

1. Of no account; useless; vain; trifling; unprofitable; thoughtless;
silly; barren. "Deserts idle." Shak.
Every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof
in the day of judgment. Matt. xii. 36.
Down their idle weapons dropped. Milton.
This idle story became important. Macaulay.

2. Not called into active service; not turned to appropriate use;
unemployed; as, idle hours.
The idle spear and shield were high uphing. Milton.

3. Not employed; unoccupied with business; inactive; doing nothing;
as, idle workmen.
Why stand ye here all the day idle Matt. xx. 6.

4. Given rest and ease; averse to labor or employment; lazy;
slothful; as, an idle fellow.

5. Light-headed; foolish. [Obs.] Ford. Idle pulley (Mach.), a pulley
that rests upon a belt to tighten it; a pulley that only guides a
belt and is not used to transmit power.
 -- Idle wheel (Mach.), a gear wheel placed between two others, to
transfer motion from one to the other without changing the direction
of revolution.
 -- In idle, in vain. [Obs.] "God saith, thou shalt not take the name
of thy Lord God in idle." Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Unoccupied; unemployed; vacant; inactive; indolent; sluggish;
slothful; useless; ineffectual; futile; frivolous; vain; trifling;
unprofitable; unimportant.
 -- Idle, Indolent, Lazy. A propensity to inaction is expressed by
each of these words; they differ in the cause and degree of this
characteristic. Indolent denotes an habitual love to ease, a settled
dislike of movement or effort; idle is opposed to busy, and denotes a
dislike of continuous exertion. Lazy is a stronger and more
contemptuous term than indolent.

IDLE
I"dle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Idled; p. pr. & vb. n. Idling.]

Defn: To lose or spend time in inaction, or without being employed in
business. Shak.

IDLE
I"dle, v. t.

Defn: To spend in idleness; to waste; to consume; -- often followed
by away; as, to idle away an hour a day.

IDLE-HEADED
I"dle-head`ed, a.

1. Foolish; stupid. [Obs.] "The superstitious idle-headed eld." Shak.

2. Delirious; infatuated. [Obs.] L'Estrange.

IDLENESS
I"dle*ness, n. Etym: [AS. idelnes.]

Defn: The condition or quality of being idle (in the various senses
of that word); uselessness; fruitlessness; triviality; inactivity;
laziness.

Syn.
 -- Inaction; indolence; sluggishness; sloth.

IDLE-PATED
I"dle-pat`ed, a.

Defn: Idle-headed; stupid. [Obs.]

IDLER
I"dler, n.

1. One who idles; one who spends his time in inaction; a lazy person;
a sluggard.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: One who has constant day duties on board ship, and keeps no
regular watch. Totten.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: An idle wheel or pulley. See under Idle.

IDLESS; IDLESSE
I"dless, I"dlesse, n.

Defn: Idleness. [Archaic] "In ydlesse." Spenser.
And an idlesse all the day Beside a wandering stream. Mrs. Browning.

IDLY
I"dly, adv.

Defn: In a idle manner; ineffectually; vainly; lazily; carelessly;
(Obs.) foolishly.

IDO
I"do (e"do), n.

Defn: An artificial international language, selected by the
"Delegation for the Adoption of an Auxillary International Language"
(founded at Paris in 1901), made public in 1907, and subsequently
greatly revised and extended by a permanent committee or "Academy."
It combines systematically the advantages of previous schemes with a
thoroughly logical word formation, and has neither accented constants
nor arbitrarily coined pronominal words. For each idea that root is
selected which is already most international, on the principle of the
"greatest facility for the greatest number of people." The word "Ido"
means in the language itself "offspring." The official name is:
"Linguo Internaciona di la Delegitaro (Sistema Ido)." --I"dism (#),
n. -- I"dist (#), n.

IDOCRASE
Id"o*crase, n. Etym: [Gr. idocrase.] (Min.)

Defn: Same as Vesuvianite.

IDOL
I"dol, n. Etym: [OE. idole, F. idole, L. idolum, fr. Gr. Wit, and cf.
Eidolon.]

1. An image or representation of anything. [Obs.]
Do her adore with sacred reverence, As th' idol of her maker's great
magnificence. Spenser.

2. An image of a divinity; a representation or symbol of a deity or
any other being or thing, made or used as an object of worship; a
similitude of a false god.
That they should not worship devils, and idols of gold. Rev. ix. 20.

3. That on which the affections are strongly (often excessively) set;
an object of passionate devotion; a person or thing greatly loved or
adored.
The soldier's god and people's idol. Denham.

4. A false notion or conception; a fallacy. Bacon.
The idols of preconceived opinion. Coleridge.

IDOLASTRE
I`do*las"tre, n. Etym: [OE., for idolatre.]

Defn: An idolater. [Obs.] Chaucer.

IDOLATER
I*dol"a*ter, n. Etym: [F. idolâtre: cf. L. idololatres, Gr.
Idolatry.]

1. A worshiper of idols; one who pays divine honors to images,
statues, or representations of anything made by hands; one who
worships as a deity that which is not God; a pagan.

2. An adorer; a great admirer.
Jonson was an idolater of the ancients. Bp. Hurd.

IDOLATRESS
I*dol"a*tress, n.

Defn: A female worshiper of idols.

IDOLATRICAL
I`do*lat"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. idolâtrique.]

Defn: Idolatrous. [Obs.]

IDOLATRIZE
I*dol"a*trize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Idolatrized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Idolatrizing.]

Defn: To worship idols; to pay idolatrous worship.

IDOLATRIZE
I*dol"a*trize, v. t.

Defn: To make in idol of; to idolize.

IDOLATROUS
I*dol"a*trous, a.

1. Of or pertaining to idolatry; partaking of the nature of idolatry;
given to idolatry or the worship of false gods; as, idolatrous
sacrifices.
[Josiah] put down the idolatrous priests. 2 Kings xxiii. 5.

2. Consisting in, or partaking of, an excessive attachment or
reverence; as, an idolatrous veneration for antiquity.

IDOLATROUSLY
I*dol"a*trous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a idolatrous manner.

IDOLATRY
I*dol"a*try, n.; pl. Idolatries. Etym: [F. idolâtrie, LL. idolatria,
L. idololatria, Fr. Gr.

1. The worship of idols, images, or anything which is not God; the
worship of false gods.
His eye surveyed the dark idolatries Of alienated Judah. Milton.

2. Excessive attachment or veneration for anything; respect or love
which borders on adoration. Shak.

IDOLISH
I"dol*ish, a.

Defn: Idolatrous. [Obs.] Milton.

IDOLISM
I"dol*ism, n.

Defn: The worship of idols. [Obs.]

IDOLIST
I"dol*ist, n.

Defn: A worshiper of idols. [Obs.] Milton.

IDOLIZE
I"dol*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Idolized; p. pr. & vb. n. Idolizing.]

1. To make an idol of; to pay idolatrous worship to; as, to idolize
the sacred bull in Egypt.

2. To love to excess; to love or reverence to adoration; as, to
idolize gold, children, a hero.

IDOLIZE
I"dol*ize, v. i.

Defn: To practice idolatry. [R.]
To idolize after the manner of Egypt. Fairbairn.

IDOLIZER
I"dol*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who idolizes or loves to the point of reverence; an
idolater.

IDOLOCLAST
I*dol"o*clast, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A breaker of idols; an iconoclast.

IDOLOGRAPHICAL
I*dol`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Idol + -graph.]

Defn: Descriptive of idols. [R.] Southey.

IDOLOUS
I"dol*ous, a.

Defn: Idolatrous. [Obs.] Bale.

IDOLUM; IDOLON
I*do"lum, I*do"lon, n.; pl. Idola (#). [L. See Idol; cf. Eidolon.]

Defn: Appearance or image; a phantasm; a spectral image; also, a
mental image or idea.

IDONEOUS
I*do"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. idoneus.]

Defn: Appropriate; suitable; proper; fit; adequate. [R.]
An ecclesiastical benefice . . . ought to be conferred on an idoneous
person. Ayliffe.

IDORGAN
Id*or"gan, n. Etym: [Gr. organ.] (Biol.)

Defn: A morphological unit, consisting of two or more plastids, which
does not possess the positive character of the person or stock, in
distinction from the physiological organ or biorgan. See Morphon.

IDRIALINE; IDRIALITE
Id"ri*a*line, Id"ri*a*lite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. idrialine.] (Min.)

Defn: A bituminous substance obtained from the mercury mines of
Idria, where it occurs mixed with cinnabar.

IDUMEAN
Id`u*me"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ancient Idumea, or Edom, in Western Asia.
 -- n.

Defn: An inhabitant of Idumea, an Edomite.

IDYL
I"dyl, n. Etym: [L. idyllium, Gr. idylle. See Idol.]

Defn: A short poem; properly, a short pastoral poem; as, the idyls of
Theocritus; also, any poem, especially a narrative or descriptive
poem, written in an eleveted and highly finished style; also, by
extension, any artless and easily flowing description, either in
poetry or prose, of simple, rustic life, of pastoral scenes, and the
like. [Written also idyll.]
Wordsworth's solemn-thoughted idyl. Mrs. Browning.
His [Goldsmith's] lovely idyl of the Vicar's home. F. Harrison.

IDYLLIC
I*dyl"lic, a.

Defn: Of or belonging to idyls.

I. E.
I. e.

Defn: Abbreviation of Latin id est, that is.

IF
If, conj. Etym: [OE. if, gif, AS. gif; akin to OFries. ief, gef, ef,
OS. ef, of, D. of, or, whether, if, G. ob whether, if, OHG. oba, ibu,
Icel. ef, Goth. iba, ibai, an interrogative particle; properly a case
form of a noun meaning, doubt (cf. OHG. iba doubt, condition, Icel.
if, ef, ifi, efi), and therefore orig. meaning, on condition that.]

1. In case that; granting, allowing, or supposing that; --
introducing a condition or supposition.
Tisiphone, that oft hast heard my prayer, Assist, if OEdipus deserve
thy care. Pope.
If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread.
Matt. iv. 3.

2. Whether; -- in dependent questions.
Uncertain if by augury or chance. Dryden.
She doubts if two and two make four. Prior.
As if, But if. See under As, But.

I' FAITH
I' faith"

Defn: . In faith; indeed; truly. Shak.

IFERE
I*fere", a. Etym: [Corrupted fr. in fere.]

Defn: Together. [Obs.] Chaucer.

IGASURIC
Ig`a*su"ric, a. Etym: [See Igasurine.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, nux vomica or St. Ignatius's
bean; as, igasuric acid.

IGASURINE
Ig`a*su"rine, n. Etym: [Malay igasura the nux vomica.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid found in nux vomica, and extracted as a white
crystalline substance.

IGLOO
Ig"loo, n.

1. An Eskimo snow house.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cavity, or excavation, made in the snow by a seal, over its
breathing hole in the ice.

IGNATIUS BEAN
Ig*na"tius bean`. (Bot.)

Defn: See Saint Ignatius's bean, under Saint.

IGNEOUS
Ig"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. igneus, fr. ignis fire; allied to Skr. agni,
Lith. ugnis, OSlav. ogne.]

1. Pertaining to, having the nature of, fire; containing fire;
resembling fire; as, an igneous appearance.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Resulting from, or produced by, the action of fire; as, lavas
and basalt are igneous rocks.

IGNESCENT
Ig*nes"cent, a. Etym: [L. ignescens, p.pr. of ignescere to become
inflamed, fr. ignis fire: cf. F. ignescent.]

Defn: Emitting sparks of fire when struck with steel; scintillating;
as, ignescent stones.

IGNICOLIST
Ig*nic"o*list, n. Etym: [L. ignis fire + colere to worship.]

Defn: A worshiper of fire. [R.]

IGNIFEROUS
Ig*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. ignifer; ignis fire + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Producing fire. [R.] Blount.

IGNIFLUOUS
Ig*nif"lu*ous, a. Etym: [L. ignifluus; ignis fire + fluere to flow.]

Defn: Flowing with fire. [Obs.] Cockerman.

IGNIFY
Ig"ni*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ignified; p. pr. & vb. n. Ignifying.]
Etym: [L. ignis fire + -fy.]

Defn: To form into fire. [R.] Stukeley.

IGNIGENOUS
Ig*nig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. ignigenus; ignis fire + genere, ginere,
to beget, produce.]

Defn: Produced by the action of fire, as lava. [R.]

IGNIPOTENCE
Ig*nip"o*tence, n.

Defn: Power over fire. [R.]

IGNIPOTENT
Ig*nip"o*tent, a. Etym: [L. ignipotens; ignis fire + potens
powerful.]

Defn: Presiding over fire; also, fiery.
Vulcan is called the powerful ignipotent. Pope.

IGNIS FATUUS
Ig"nis fat"u*us; pl. Ignes fatui. Etym: [L. ignis fire + fatuus
foolish. So called in allusion to its tendency to mislead travelers.]

1. A phosphorescent light that appears, in the night, over marshy
ground, supposed to be occasioned by the decomposition of animal or
vegetable substances, or by some inflammable gas; -- popularly called
also Will-with-the-wisp, or Will-o'-the-wisp, and Jack-with-a-
lantern, or Jack-o'-lantern.

2. Fig.: A misleading influence; a decoy.
Scared and guided by the ignis fatuus of popular superstition. Jer.
Taylor.

IGNITE
Ig*nite", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ignited; p. pr. & vb. n. Igniting.]
Etym: [L. ignitus, p.p. of ignire to ignite, fr. ignis fire. See
Igneous.]

1. To kindle or set on fire; as, to ignite paper or wood.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: To subject to the action of intense heat; to heat strongly; --
often said of incombustible or infusible substances; as, to ignite
iron or platinum.

IGNITE
Ig*nite", v. i.

Defn: To take fire; to begin to burn.

IGNITIBLE
Ig*nit"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being ignited.

IGNITION
Ig*ni"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ignition.]

1. The act of igniting, kindling, or setting on fire.

2. The state of being ignited or kindled. Sir T. Browne.

IGNITOR
Ig*nit"or, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, produces ignition; especially, a
contrivance for igniting the powder in a torpedo or the like.
[Written also igniter.]

IGNIVOMOUS
Ig*niv"o*mous, a. Etym: [L. ignivomus; ignis fire + vomere 8vomit.]

Defn: Vomiting fire. [R.]

IGNOBILITY
Ig`no*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. ignobilitas: cf. F. ignobilité.]

Defn: Ignobleness. [Obs.] Bale.

IGNOBLE
Ig*no"ble, a. Etym: [L. ignobilis; pref. in- not + nobilis noble: cf.
F. ignoble. See In- not, and Noble, a.]

1. Of low birth or family; not noble; not illustrious; plebeian;
common; humble.
I was not ignoble of descent. Shak.
Her royal stock graft with ignoble plants. Shak.

2. Not honorable, elevated, or generous; base.
'T but a base, ignoble mind, That mounts no higher than a bird can
soar. Shak.
Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife. Gray.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Not a true or noble falcon; -- said of certain hawks, as the
goshawk.

Syn.
 -- Degenerate; degraded; mean; base; dishonorable; reproachful;
disgraceful; shameful; scandalous; infamous.

IGNOBLE
Ig*no"ble, v. t.

Defn: To make ignoble. [Obs.] Bacon.

IGNOBLENESS
Ig*no"ble*ness, n.

Defn: State or quality of being ignoble.

IGNOBLY
Ig*no"bly, adv.

Defn: In an ignoble manner; basely.

IGNOMINIOUS
Ig`no*min"i*ous, a. Etym: [L. ignominiosus: cf. F. ignominieux.]

1. Marked with ignominy; in curring public disgrace; dishonorable;
shameful.
Then first with fear surprised and sense of pain, Fled ignominious.
Milton.

2. Deserving ignominy; despicable.
One single, obscure, ignominious projector. Swift.

3. Humiliating; degrading; as, an ignominious judgment or sentence.
Macaulay.

IGNOMINIOUSLY
Ig`no*min"i*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ignominious manner; disgracefully; shamefully;
ingloriously.

IGNOMINY
Ig"no*min*y, n.; pl. Ignominies. Etym: [L. ignominia ignominy (i.e.,
a deprivation of one's good name); in- not + nomen name: cf. F.
ignominie. See In- not, and Name.]

1. Public disgrace or dishonor; reproach; infamy.
Their generals have been received with honor after their defeat;
yours with ignominy after conquest. Addison.
Vice begins in mistake, and ends in ignominy. Rambler.
Ignominy is the infliction of such evil as is made dishonorable, or
the deprivation of such good as is made honorable by the Common
wealth. Hobbes.

2. An act deserving disgrace; an infamous act.

Syn.
 -- Opprobrium; reproach; dishonor.

IGNOMY
Ig"no*my, n.

Defn: Ignominy. [R. & Obs.]
I blush to think upon this ignomy. Shak.

IGNORAMUS
Ig`no*ra"mus, n. Etym: [L., we are ignorant. See Ignore.]

1. (Law)

Defn: We are ignorant; we ignore; -- being the word formerly written
on a bill of indictment by a grand jury when there was not sufficient
evidence to warrant them in finding it a true bill. The phrase now
used is, "No bill," "No true bill," or "Not found," though in some
jurisdictions "Ignored" is still used. Wharton (Law Dict. ). Burn.

2. (pl. Ignoramuses (.)

Defn: A stupid, ignorant person; a vain pretender to knowledge; a
dunce.
An ignoramus in place and power. South.

IGNORANCE
Ig"no*rance, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. ignorantia.]

1. The condition of being ignorant; the want of knowledge in general,
or in relation to a particular subject; the state of being uneducated
or uninformed.
Ignorance is the curse of God, Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to
heaven. Shak.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: A willful neglect or refusal to acquire knowledge which one may
acquire and it is his duty to have. Book of Common Prayer. Invincible
ignorance (Theol.), ignorance beyond the individual's control and for
which, therefore, he is not responsible before God.

IGNORANT
Ig"no*rant, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. ignorans, -antis, p.pr. of ignorare
to be ignorant. See Ignore.]

1. Destitute of knowledge; uninstructed or uninformed; untaught;
unenlightened.
He that doth not know those things which are of use for him to know,
is but an ignorant man, whatever he may know besides. Tillotson.

2. Unacquainted with; unconscious or unaware; -- used with of.
Ignorant of guilt, I fear not shame. Dryden.

3. Unknown; undiscovered. [Obs.]
Ignorant concealment. Shak.
Alas, what ignorant sin have I committed Shak.

4. Resulting from ignorance; foolish; silly.
His shipping, Poor ignorant baubles! -- on our terrible seas, Like
eggshells moved. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Uninstructed; untaught; unenlightened; uninformed; unlearned;
unlettered; illiterate.
 -- Ignorant, Illiterate. Ignorant denotes want of knowledge, either
as to single subject or information in general; illiterate refers to
an ignorance of letters, or of knowledge acquired by reading and
study. In the Middle Ages, a great proportion of the higher classes
were illiterate, and yet were far from being ignorant, especially in
regard to war and other active pursuits.
In such business Action is eloquence, and the eyes of the ignorant
More learned than the ears. Shak.
In the first ages of Christianity, not only the learned and the wise,
but the ignorant and illiterate, embraced torments and death.
Tillotson.

IGNORANT
Ig"no*rant, n.

Defn: A person untaught or uninformed; one unlettered or unskilled;
an ignoramous.
Did I for this take pains to teach Our zealous ignorants to preach
Denham.

IGNORANTISM
Ig"no*rant*ism, n.

Defn: The spirit of those who extol the advantage to ignorance;
obscuriantism.

IGNORANTIST
Ig"no*rant*ist, n.

Defn: One opposed to the diffusion of knowledge; an obscuriantist.

IGNORANTLY
Ig"no*rant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a ignorant manner; without knowledge; inadvertently.
Whom therefoer ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you. Acts
xvii. 23.

IGNORE
Ig*nore", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ignored; p. pr. & vb. n. Ignoring.]
Etym: [L. ignorare; pref. in- not + the root of gnarus knowing,
noscere to become acquainted with. See Know, and cf. Narrate.]

1. To be ignorant of or not acquainted with. [Archaic]
Philosophy would solidly be established, if men would more carefully
distinguish those things that they know from those that they ignore.
Boyle.

2. (Law)

Defn: To throw out or reject as false or ungrounded; -- said of a
bill rejected by a grand jury for want of evidence. See Ignoramus.

3. Hence: To refuse to take notice of; to shut the eyes to; not to
recognize; to disregard willfully and causelessly; as, to ignore
certain facts; to ignore the presence of an objectionable person.
Ignoring Italy under our feet, And seeing things before, behind. Mrs.
Browning.

IGNOSCIBLE
Ig*nos"ci*ble, a. Etym: [L. ignoscibilis, fr. ignoscere to pardon,
lit., not to wish to know; pref. in- not + gnoscere, noscere, to
learn to know. See In- not, and Know.]

Defn: Pardonable. [Obs.] Bailey.

IGNOTE
Ig*note", a. Etym: [L. ignotus; pref. in- not + gnotus, notus, known,
p.p. of gnocere, nocere, to learn to know.]

Defn: Unknown. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys.
 -- n.

Defn: One who is unknown. Bp. Hacket.

IGUANA
I*gua"na, n. Etym: [Sp. iguana, from the native name in Hayti. Cf.
Guana.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of the genus Iguana, a genus of large American
lizards of the family Iguanidæ. They are arboreal in their habits,
usually green in color, and feed chiefly upon fruits.

Note: The common iguana (I. tuberculata) of the West Indies and South
America is sometimes five feet long. Its flesh is highly prized as
food. The horned iguana (I. cornuta) has a conical horn between the
eyes.

IGUANIAN
I*gua"ni*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling, or pertaining to, the iguana.

IGUANID
I*gua"nid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Iguanoid.

IGUANODON
I*gua"no*don, n. Etym: [Iguana + Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of gigantic herbivorous dinosaurs having a birdlike
pelvis and large hind legs with three-toed feet capable of supporting
the entire body. Its teeth resemble those of the iguana, whence its
name. Several species are known, mostly from the Wealden of England
and Europe. See Illustration in Appendix.

IGUANODONT
I*gua"no*dont, a. (Paleon.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the genus Iguanodon.

IGUANOID
I*gua"noid, a. Etym: [Iguana + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Iguanidæ.

IHLANG-IHLANG
Ih*lang`-ih*lang", n. Etym: [Malayan, flower of flowers.]

Defn: A rich, powerful, perfume, obtained from the volatile oil of
the flowers of Canada odorata, an East Indian tree. [Also written
ylang-ylang.]

IHRAM
Ih*ram", n.

Defn: The peculiar dress worn by pilgrims to Mecca.

IHVH
IHVH. [Written also JHVH, YHVH.]

Defn: A transliteration of the four constants forming the Hebrew
tetragrammaton or "incommunicable name" of the Supreme Being, which
in latter Jewish tradition is not pronounced save with the vowels of
adonai or elohim, so that the true pronunciation is lost.

 Numerous attempts have been made to represent the supposed original
form of the word, as Jahaveh, Jahvaj, Jahve, Jahveh, Yahve, Yahveh,
Yahwe, Yahweh, etc.

IK
Ik, pron. Etym: [See I.]

Defn: I [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

Note: The Northern dialectic form of I, in Early English,
corresponding to ich of the Southern.

IL-
Il-

Defn: . A form of the prefix in-, not, and in-, among. See In-.

ILE
Ile, n. Etym: [AS. egl.]

Defn: Ear of corn. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

ILE
Ile, n. Etym: [See Aisle.]

Defn: An aisle. [Obs.] H. Swinburne.

ILE
Ile, n. Etym: [See Isle.]

Defn: An isle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ILEAC
Il"e*ac, a. Etym: [See Ileum.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the ileum. [Written also iliac.]

2. See Iliac,

1. [R.] Ileac passion. (Med.) See Ileus.

ILEOCAECAL
Il`e*o*cæ"cal, a. Etym: [Ileum + cæcal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the ileum and cæcum.

ILEOCOLIC
Il`e*o*col"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the ileum and colon; as, the ileocolic, or
ileocæcal, valve, a valve where the ileum opens into the large
intestine.

ILEUM
Il"e*um, n. Etym: [L. ile, ileum, ilium, pl. ilia, groin, flank.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The last, and usually the longest, division of the small
intestine; the part between the jejunum and large intestine. [Written
also ileon, and ilium.]

2. (Anat.)

Defn: See Ilium. [R.]

Note: Most modern writers restrict ileum to the division of the
intestine and ilium to the pelvic bone.

ILEUS
Il"e*us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition due to intestinal obstruction. It is
characterized by complete constipation, with griping pains in the
abdomen, which is greatly distended, and in the later stages by
vomiting of fecal matter. Called also ileac, or iliac, passion.

ILEX
I"lex, n. Etym: [L., holm oak.] (Bot.)
(a) The holm oak (Quercus Ilex).
(b) A genus of evergreen trees and shrubs, including the common
holly.

ILIAC
Il"i*ac, a. Etym: [L. Iliacus, Gr. Iliad.]

Defn: Pertaining to ancient Ilium, or Troy. Gladstone.

ILIAC
Il"i*ac, a. Etym: [Cf. F. iliaque. See Ileum, and cf. Jade a stone.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or in the region of, the ilium, or dorsal bone
of the pelvis; as, the iliac artery. [Written also ileac.]

2. See Ileac, 1. [R.] Iliac crest, the upper margin of the ilium.
 -- Iliac passion. See Ileus.
 -- Iliac region, a region of the abdomen, on either side of the
hypogastric regions, and below the lumbar regions.

ILIACAL
I*li"a*cal, a.

Defn: Iliac. [R.]

ILIAD
Il"i*ad, n. Etym: [L. Ilias, -adis, Gr.

Defn: A celebrated Greek epic poem, in twenty-four books, on the
destruction of Ilium, the ancient Troy. The Iliad is ascribed to
Homer.

ILIAL
Il"i*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the ilium; iliac.

ILICHE
I*liche", adv. Etym: [OE., fr. AS. gelic. Cf. Alike.]

Defn: Alike. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ILICIC
I*lic"ic, a. Etym: [L. ilex, ilicis, holm oak.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the holly (Ilex), and allied
plants; as, ilicic acid.

ILICIN
Il"i*cin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The bitter principle of the holly.

ILIO-
Il"i*o-. Etym: [From Ilium.]

Defn: A combining form used in anatomy to denote connection with, or
relation to, the ilium; as, ilio-femoral, ilio-lumbar, ilio-psoas,
etc.

ILIOFEMORAL
Il`i*o*fem"o*ral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the ilium and femur; as, iliofemoral ligaments.

ILIOLUMBAR
Il`i*o*lum"bar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the iliac and lumbar regions; as, the iliolumbar
artery.

ILIOPSOAS
Il`i*o*pso"as, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The great flexor muscle of the hip joint, divisible into two
parts, the iliac and great psoas, -- often regarded as distinct
muscles.

ILIUM
Il"i*um, n. Etym: [See Ileum.] (Anat.)

Defn: The dorsal one of the three principal bones comprising either
lateral half of the pelvis; the dorsal or upper part of the hip bone.
See Innominate bone, under Innominate. [Written also ilion, and
ileum.]

ILIXANTHIN
Il`ix*an"thin, n. Etym: [Ilex the genus including the holly + Gr.
(Chem.)

Defn: A yellow dye obtained from the leaves of the holly.

ILK
Ilk, a. Etym: [Scot. ilk, OE. ilke the same, AS. ilca. Cf. Each.]

Defn: Same; each; every. [Archaic] Spenser. Of that ilk, denoting
that a person's surname and the title of his estate are the same; as,
Grant of that ilk, i.e., Grant of Grant. Jamieson.

ILKE
Il"ke, a. Etym: [See Ilk.]

Defn: Same. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ILKON; ILKOON
Il*kon", Il*koon", pron. Etym: [See Ilk, and One.]

Defn: Each one; every one. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ILL
Ill, a. [The regular comparative and superlative are wanting, their
places being supplied by worse ( and worst (, from another root.]
Etym: [OE. ill, ille, Icel. illr; akin to Sw. illa, adv., Dan. ilde,
adv.]

1. Contrary to good, in a physical sense; contrary or opposed to
advantage, happiness, etc.; bad; evil; unfortunate; disagreeable;
unfavorable.
Neither is it ill air only that maketh an ill seat, but ill ways, ill
markets, and ill neighbors. Bacon.
There 's some ill planet reigns. Shak.

2. Contrary to good, in a moral sense; evil; wicked; wrong;
iniquitious; naughtly; bad; improper.
Of his own body he was ill, and gave The clergy ill example. Shak.

3. Sick; indisposed; unwell; diseased; disordered; as, ill of a
fever.
I am in health, I breathe, and see thee ill. Shak.

4. Not according with rule, fitness, or propriety; incorrect; rude;
unpolished; inelegant.
That 's an ill phrase. Shak.
Ill at ease, uneasy; uncomfortable; anxious. "I am very ill at ease."
Shak.
 -- Ill blood, enmity; resentment.
 -- Ill breeding, want of good breeding; rudeness.
 -- Ill fame, ill or bad repute; as, a house of ill fame, a house
where lewd persons meet for illicit intercourse.
 -- Ill humor, a disagreeable mood; bad temper.
 -- Ill nature, bad disposition or temperament; sullenness; esp., a
disposition to cause unhappiness to others.
 -- Ill temper, anger; moroseness; crossness.
 -- Ill turn. (a) An unkind act. (b) A slight attack of illness.
[Colloq. U.S.] -- Ill will, unkindness; enmity; malevolence.

Syn.
 -- Bad; evil; wrong; wicked; sick; unwell.

ILL
Ill, n.

1. Whatever annoys or impairs happiness, or prevents success; evil of
any kind; misfortune; calamity; disease; pain; as, the ills of
humanity.
Who can all sense of others' ills escape Is but a brute at best in
human shape. Tate.
That makes us rather bear those ills we have Than fly to others that
we know not of. Shak.

2. Whatever is contrary to good, in a moral sense; wickedness;
depravity; iniquity; wrong; evil.
Strong virtue, like strong nature, struggles still, Exerts itself,
and then throws off the ill. Dryden.

ILL
Ill, adv.

Defn: In a ill manner; badly; weakly.
How ill this taper burns! Shak.
Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth
accumulates and men decay. Goldsmith.

Note: Ill, like above, well, and so, is used before many participal
adjectives, in its usual adverbal sense. When the two words are used
as an epithet preceding the noun qualified they are commonly
hyphened; in other cases they are written separatively; as, an ill-
educated man; he was ill educated; an ill-formed plan; the plan,
however ill formed, was acceptable. Ao, also, the following: ill-
affected or ill affected, ill-arranged or ill arranged, ill-assorted
or ill assorted, ill-boding or ill boding, ill-bred or ill bred, ill-
conditioned, ill-conducted, ill-considered, ill-devised, ill-
disposed, ill-doing, ill-fairing, ill-fated, ill-favored, ill-
featured, ill-formed, ill-gotten, ill-imagined, ill-judged, ill-
looking, ill-mannered, ill-matched, ill-meaning, ill-minded, ill-
natured, ill-omened, ill-proportioned, ill-provided, ill-required,
ill-sorted, ill-starred, ill-tempered, ill-timed, ill-trained, ill-
used, and the like.

I' LL
I' ll

Defn: . Contraction for I will or I shall.
I'll by a sign give notice to our friends. Shak.

ILLABILE
Il*lab"ile, a.

Defn: Incapable of falling or erring; infalliable. [Obs.] --
Il`la*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.]

ILLACERABLE
Il*lac"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. illacerabilis: cf. F. illacérable. See
In- not, and Lacerable.]

Defn: Not lacerable; incapable of being torn or rent. [Obs.]

ILLACRYMABLE
Il*lac"ry*ma*ble, a. Etym: [L. illacrimabilis; pref. il- not +
lacrimabilis worthy of tears.]

Defn: Incapable of weeping. [Obs.] Bailey.

ILLAPSABLE
Il*laps"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. il- not + lapsable.]

Defn: Incapable of slipping, or of error. [R.]
Morally immutable and illapsable. Glanvill.

ILLAPSE
Il*lapse", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Illapsed; p. pr. & vb. n. Illapsing.]
Etym: [L. illapsus, p.p. of illabi; pref. il- in + labi to fall,
slide.]

Defn: To fall or glide; to pass; -- usually followed by into. Cheyne.

ILLAPSE
Il*lapse", n. Etym: [L. illapsus. See Illapse, v. i.]

Defn: A gliding in; an immisson or entrance of one thing into
another; also, a sudden descent or attack. Akenside.
They sit silent . . . waiting for an illapse of the spirit. Jeffrey.

ILLAQUEABLE
Il*la"que*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being insnared or entrapped. [R.] Cudworth.

ILLAQUEATE
Il*la"que*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illaqueated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Illaqueating.] Etym: [L. illaqueatus, p.p. of illaqueare; pref. il-
in + laqueare to insnare, fr. laqueus, noose, snare.]

Defn: To insnare; to entrap; to entangle; to catch.
Let not the surpassing eloquence of Taylor dazzle you, nor his
scholastic retairy versatility of logic illaqueate your good sense.
Coleridge.

ILLAQUEATION
Il*la`que*a"tion, n.

1. The act of catching or insnaring. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

2. A snare; a trap. Johnson.

ILLATION
Il*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. illatio, fr. illatus, used as p.p. of
inferre to carry or bring in, but from a different root: cf. F.
illation. See 1st In-, and Tolerate, and cf. Infer.]

Defn: The act or process of inferring from premises or reasons;
perception of the connection between ideas; that which is inferred;
inference; deduction; conclusion.
Fraudulent deductions or inconsequent illations from a false
conception of things. Sir T. Browne.

ILLATIVE
Il"la*tive, a. Etym: [L. illativus: cf. F. illatif.]

Defn: Relating to, dependent on, or denoting, illation; inferential;
conclusive; as, an illative consequence or proposition; an illative
word, as then, therefore, etc. Illative conversion (Logic), a
converse or reverse statement of a proposition which in that form
must be true because the original proposition is true.
 -- Illative sense (Metaph.), the faculty of the mind by which it
apprehends the conditions and determines upon the correctness of
inferences.

ILLATIVE
Il"la*tive, n.

Defn: An illative particle, as for, because.

ILLATIVELY
Il"la*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: By inference; as an illative; in an illative manner.

ILLAUDABLE
Il*laud"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. illaudabilis. See In- not, and Laudable.]

Defn: Not laudable; not praise-worthy; worthy of censure or
disapprobation. Milton.
 -- Il*laud"a*bly, adv. [Obs.] Broome.

ILL-BODING
Ill`-bod"ing, a.

Defn: Boding evil; inauspicious; ill-omened. "Ill-boding stars."
Shak.

ILL-BRED
Ill"-bred`, a.

Defn: Badly educated or brought up; impolite; incivil; rude. See Note
under Ill, adv.

ILLECEBRATION
Il*lec`e*bra"tion, n. Etym: [See Illecebrous.]

Defn: Allurement. [R.] T. Brown.

ILLECEBROUS
Il*lec"e*brous, a. Etym: [L. illecebrosus, fr. illecebra allurement,
fr. illicere to allure.]

Defn: Alluring; attractive; enticing. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

ILLEGAL
Il*le"gal, a. Etym: [Pref. il- not + legal: cf. F. illégal.]

Defn: Not according to, or authorized by, law; specif., contrary to,
or in violation of, human law; unlawful; illicit; hence, immoral; as,
an illegal act; illegal trade; illegal love. Bp. Burnet.

ILLEGALITY
Il`le*gal"i*ty, n.; pl. Illegalities. Etym: [Cf. F. illégalité.]

Defn: The quality or condition of being illegal; unlawfulness; as,
the illegality of trespass or of false imprisonment; also, an illegal
act.

ILLEGALIZE
Il*le"gal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illegalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Illegalizing.]

Defn: To make or declare illegal or unlawful.

ILLEGALLY
Il*le"gal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a illegal manner; unlawfully.

ILLEGALNESS
Il*le"gal*ness, n.

Defn: Illegality, unlawfulness.

ILLEGIBILITY
Il*leg`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being illegible.

ILLEGIBLE
Il*leg"i*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being read; not legible; as, illegible
handwriting; an illegible inscription.
 -- Il*leg"i*ble*ness, n.
 -- Il*leg"i*bly, adv.

ILLEGITIMACY
Il`le*git"i*ma*cy, n.

Defn: The state of being illegitimate. Blackstone.

ILLEGITIMATE
Il`le*git"i*mate, a.

1. Not according to law; not regular or authorized; unlawful;
improper.

2. Unlawfully begotten; born out of wedlock; bastard; as, an
illegitimate child.

3. Not legitimately deduced or inferred; illogical; as, an
illegitimate inference.

4. Not authorized by good usage; not genuine; spurious; as, an
illegitimate word. Illegitimate fertilization, or Illegitimate union
(Bot.), the fertilization of pistils by stamens not of their own
length, in heterogonously dimorphic and trimorphic flowers. Darwin.

ILLEGITIMATE
Il`le*git"i*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illegitimated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Illegitimating.]

Defn: To render illegitimate; to declare or prove to be born out of
wedlock; to bastardize; to illegitimatize.
The marriage should only be dissolved for the future, without
illegitimating the issue. Bp. Burnet.

ILLEGITIMATELY
Il`le*git"i*mate*ly, adv.

Defn: In a illegitimate manner; unlawfully.

ILLEGITIMATION
Il`le*git`i*ma"tion, n.

1. The act of illegitimating; bastardizing.

2. The state of being illegitimate; illegitimacy. [Obs.]
Gardiner had performed his promise to the queen of getting her
illegitimation taken off. Bp. Burnet.

ILLEGITIMATIZE
Il`le*git"i*ma*tize, v. t.

Defn: To render illegitimate; to bastardize.

ILLESIVE
Il*le"sive, a. Etym: [Pref. il- not + L. laedere, laesum, to injure.]

Defn: Not injurious; harmless. [R.]

ILLEVIABLE
Il*lev"i*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not leviable; incapable of being imposed, or collected. [R.]
Sir M. Hale.

ILL-FAVORED
Ill`-fa"vored, a.

Defn: Wanting beauty or attractiveness; deformed; ugly; ill-looking.
Ill-favored and lean-fleshed. Gen. xli. 3.
-- Ill`-fa"vored*ly, adv.
 -- Ill`-fa"vored*ness, n.

ILLIBERAL
Il*lib"er*al, a. Etym: [L. illiberalis; pref. il- not + liberalis
liberal: cf. F. illibéral.]

1. Not liberal; not free or generous; close; niggardly; mean; sordid.
"A thrifty and illiberal hand." Mason.

2. Indicating a lack of breeding, culture, and the like; ignoble;
rude; narrow-minded; disingenuous.

3. Not well authorized or elegant; as, illiberal words in Latin. [R.]
Chesterfield.

ILLIBERALISM
Il*lib"er*al*ism, n.

Defn: Illiberality. [R.]

ILLIBERALITY
Il*lib`er*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. illiberalitas: cf. F. illibéralité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being illiberal; narrowness of mind;
meanness; niggardliness. Bacon.

ILLIBERALIZE
Il*lib"er*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illiberalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Illiberalizing.]

Defn: To make illiberal.

ILLIBERALLY
Il*lib"er*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a illiberal manner, ungenerously; uncharitably;
parsimoniously.

ILLIBERALNESS
Il*lib"er*al*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being illiberal; illiberality.

ILLICIT
Il*lic"it, a. Etym: [L. illicitus; pref. il- not + licitus, p.p. of
licere to be allowed or permitted: cf. F. illicite. See In- not, and
License.]

Defn: Not permitted or allowed; prohibited; unlawful; as, illicit
trade; illicit intercourse; illicit pleasure.
One illicit . . . transaction always leads to another. Burke.
-- Il*lic"it*ly, adv.
 -- Il*lic"it*ness, n.

ILLICITOUS
Il*lic"it*ous, a.

Defn: Illicit. [R.] Cotgrave.

ILLICIUM
Il*li"ci*um, n. Etym: [So called, in allusion to its aroma, from L.
illicium an allurement.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of Asiatic and American magnoliaceous trees, having
star-shaped fruit; star anise. The fruit of Illicium anisatum is used
as a spice in India, and its oil is largely used in Europe for
flavoring cordials, being almost identical with true oil of anise.

ILLIGHTEN
Il*light"en, v. t.

Defn: To enlighten. [Obs.]

ILLIMITABLE
Il*lim"it*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. il- not + limitable: cf. F.
illimitable.]

Defn: Incapable of being limited or bounded; immeasurable; limitless;
boundless; as, illimitable space.
The wild, the irregular, the illimitable, and the luxuriant, have
their appropriate force of beauty. De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- Boundless; limitless; unlimited; unbounded; immeasurable;
infinite; immense; vast.
 -- Il*lim"it*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Il*lim"it*a*bly, adv.

ILLIMITATION
Il*lim`it*a"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. il- not + limitation: cf. F.
illimitation.]

Defn: State of being illimitable; want of, or freedom from,
limitation. Bp. Hall.

ILLIMITED
Il*lim"it*ed, a.

Defn: Not limited; interminable. Bp. Hall.
 -- Il*lim"it*ed*ness, n.
The absoluteness and illimitedness of his commission was generally
much spoken of. Clarendon.

ILLINITION
Il`li*ni"tion, n. Etym: [L. illinire, illinere, to besmear; pref. il-
in, on + linire, linere, to smear.]

1. A smearing or rubbing in or on; also, that which is smeared or
rubbed on, as ointment or liniment.

2. A thin crust of some extraneous substance formed on minerals. [R.]
A thin crust or illinition of black manganese. Kirwan.

ILLINOIS
Il`li*nois", n.sing. & pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of North American Indians, which formerly occupied the
region between the Wabash and Mississippi rivers.

ILLIQUATION
Il`li*qua"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. il- in + L. liquare to melt.]

Defn: The melting or dissolving of one thing into another.

ILLISH
Ill"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat ill. [Obs.] Howell.

ILLISION
Il*li"sion, n. Etym: [L. illisio, fr. illidere, illisum, to strike
against; pref. il- in + laedere to strike.]

Defn: The act of dashing or striking against. Sir T. Browne.

ILLITERACY
Il*lit"er*a*cy, n.; pl. Illiteracies. Etym: [From Illiterate.]

1. The state of being illiterate, or uneducated; want of learning, or
knowledge; ignorance; specifically, inability to read and write; as,
the illiteracy shown by the last census.

2. An instance of ignorance; a literary blunder.
The many blunders and illiteracies of the first publishers of his
[Shakespeare's] works. Pope.

ILLITERAL
Il*lit"er*al, a.

Defn: Not literal. [R.] B. Dawson.

ILLITERATE
Il*lit"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. illiteratus: pref. il- not + literatus
learned. See In- not, and Literal.]

Defn: Ignorant of letters or books; unlettered; uninstructed;
uneducated; as, an illiterate man, or people.

Syn.
 -- Ignorant; untaught; unlearned; unlettered; unscholary. See
Ignorant.
 -- Il*lit"er*ate*ly, adv.
 -- Il*lit"er*ate*ness, n.

ILLITERATURE
Il*lit"er*a*ture, n.

Defn: Want of learning; illiteracy. [R.] Ayliffe. Southey.

ILL-JUDGED
Ill"-judged`, a.

Defn: Not well judged; unwise.

ILL-LIVED
Ill"-lived`, a.

Defn: Leading a wicked life. [Obs.]

ILL-LOOKING
Ill"-look`ing, a.

Defn: Having a bad look; threatening; ugly. See Note under Ill, adv.

ILL-MANNERED
Ill`-man"nered, a.

Defn: Impolite; rude.

ILL-MINDED
Ill"-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Ill-disposed. Byron.

ILL-NATURED
Ill`-na"tured, a.

1. Of habitual bad temper; peevish; fractious; cross; crabbed; surly;
as, an ill-natured person.

2. Dictated by, or indicating, ill nature; spiteful. "The ill-natured
task refuse." Addison.

3. Intractable; not yielding to culture. [R.] "Ill-natured land." J.
Philips.
 -- Ill`-na"tured*ly, adv.
 -- Ill`-na"tured*ness, n.

ILLNESS
Ill"ness, n. Etym: [From Ill.]

1. The condition of being ill, evil, or bad; badness;
unfavorableness. [Obs.] "The illness of the weather." Locke.

2. Disease; indisposition; malady; disorder of health; sickness; as,
a short or a severe illness.

3. Wrong moral conduct; wickedness. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Malady; disease; indisposition; ailment.
 -- Illness, Sickness. Within the present century, there has been a
tendency in England to use illness in the sense of a continuous
disease, disorder of health, or sickness, and to confine sickness
more especially to a sense of nausea, or "sickness of the stomach."

ILL-NURTURED
Ill"-nur`tured, a.

Defn: Ill-bred. Shak.

ILLOCALITY
Il`lo*cal"i*ty, n.

Defn: Want of locality or place. [R.] Cudworth.

ILLOGICAL
Il*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Ignorant or negligent of the rules of logic or correct
reasoning; as, an illogical disputant; contrary of the rules of logic
or sound reasoning; as, an illogical inference.
 -- Il*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Il*log"ic*al*ness, n.

ILL-OMENED
Ill`-o"mened, a.

Defn: Having unlucky omens; inauspicious. See Note under Ill, adv.

ILL-STARRED
Ill"-starred`, a.

Defn: Fated to be unfortunate; unlucky; as, an ill-starred man or
day.

ILL-TEMPERED
Ill`-tem"pered, a.

1. Of bad temper; morose; crabbed; sour; peevish; fretful;
quarrelsome.

2. Unhealthy; ill-conditioned. [Obs.]
So ill-tempered I am grown, that I am afraid I shall catch cold,
while all the world is afraid to melt away. Pepys.

ILL-TIMED
Ill"-timed`, a.

Defn: Done, attempted, or said, at an unsuitable or unpropitious
time.

ILLTREAT
Ill`treat", v. t.

Defn: To treat cruelly or improperly; to ill use; to maltreat.

ILLUDE
Il*lude", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illuded; p. pr. & vb. n. Illuding.]
Etym: [L. illudere, illusum; pref. il- in + ludere to play: cf. OF.
illuder. See Ludicrous.]

Defn: To play upon by artifice; to deceive; to mock; to excite and
disappoint the hopes of.

ILLUME
Il*lume", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illumed; p. pr. & vb. n. Illuming.]
Etym: [Cf. F. illuminer. See Illuminate.]

Defn: To throw or spread light upon; to make light or bright; to
illuminate; to illumine. Shak.
The mountain's brow, Illumed with fluid gold. Thomson.

ILLUMINABLE
Il*lu"mi*na*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being illuminated.

ILLUMINANT
Il*lu"mi*nant, n. Etym: [L. illuminans, -antis, p.pr. of illuminare.]

Defn: That which illuminates or affords light; as, gas and petroleum
are illuminants. Boyle.

ILLUMINARY
Il*lu"mi*na*ry, a.

Defn: Illuminative.

ILLUMINATE
Il*lu"mi*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illuminated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Illuminating.] Etym: [L. illuminatus, p.p. of illuminare; pref. il-
in + luminare to enlighten, fr. lumen light. See Luminous, and cf.
Illume, Illumine, Enlimn, Limn.]

1. To make light; to throw light on; to supply with light, literally
or figuratively; to brighten.

2. To light up; to decorate with artificial lights, as a building or
city, in token of rejoicing or respect.

3. To adorn, as a book or page with borders, initial letters, or
miniature pictures in colors and gold, as was done in manuscripts of
the Middle Ages.

4. To make plain or clear; to dispel the obscurity to by knowledge or
reason; to explain; to elucidate; as, to illuminate a text, a
problem, or a duty.

ILLUMINATE
Il*lu"mi*nate, v. i.

Defn: To light up in token or rejoicing.

ILLUMINATE
Il*lu"mi*nate, a. Etym: [L. illuminatus, p.p.]

Defn: Enlightened. Bp. Hall.

ILLUMINATE
Il*lu"mi*nate, n.

Defn: One who enlightened; esp., a pretender to extraordinary light
and knowledge.

ILLUMINATI
Il*lu`mi*na"ti, n. pl. Etym: [L. illuminatus. See Illuminate, v. t.,
and cf. Illuminee.]

Defn: Literally, those who are enlightened; -- variously applied as
follows: -

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: Persons in the early church who had received baptism; in which
ceremony a lighted taper was given them, as a symbol of the spiritual
illumination they has received by that sacrament.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: Members of a sect which sprung up in Spain about the year 1575.
Their principal doctrine was, that, by means of prayer, they had
attained to so perfect a state as to have no need of ordinances,
sacraments, good works, etc.; -- called also Alumbrados,
Perfectibilists, etc.

3. (Mod. Hist.)

Defn: Members of certain associations in Modern Europe, who combined
to promote social reforms, by which they expected to raise men and
society to perfection, esp. of one originated in 1776 by Adam
Weishaupt, professor of canon law at Ingolstadt, which spread rapidly
for a time, but ceased after a few years.

4. Also applied to:
(a) An obscure sect of French Familists.
(b) The Hesychasts, Mystics, and Quietists;
(c) The Rosicrucians.

5. Any persons who profess special spiritual or intellectual
enlightenment.

ILLUMINATING
Il*lu"mi*na`ting, a.

Defn: Giving or producing light; used for illumination. Illuminating
gas. See Gas, n., 2 (a).

ILLUMINATION
Il*lu`mi*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. illuminatio: cf. F. illumination.]

1. The act of illuminating, or supplying with light; the state of
being illuminated.

2. Festive decoration of houses or buildings with lights.

3. Adornment of books and manuscripts with colored illustrations. See
Illuminate, v. t., 3.

4. That which is illuminated, as a house; also, an ornamented book or
manuscript.

5. That which illuminates or gives light; brightness; splendor;
especially, intellectual light or knowledge.
The illumination which a bright genius giveth to his work. Felton.

6. (Theol.)

Defn: The special communication of knowledge to the mind by God;
inspiration.
Hymns and psalms . . . are framed by meditation beforehand, or by
prophetical illumination are inspired. Hooker.

ILLUMINATISM
Il*lu"mi*na*tism, n.

Defn: Illuminism. [R.]

ILLUMINATIVE
Il*lu"mi*na*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. illuminatif.]

Defn: Tending to illuminate or illustrate; throwing light;
illustrative. "Illuminative reading." Carlyle.

ILLUMINATOR
Il*lu"mi*na`tor, n. Etym: [L., an enlightener, LL. also, an
illuminator of books.]

1. One whose occupation is to adorn books, especially manuscripts,
with miniatures, borders, etc. See Illuminate, v. t., 3.

2. A condenser or reflector of light in optical apparatus; also, an
illuminant.

ILLUMINE
Il*lu"mine, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. illuminer. See Illuminate.]

Defn: To illuminate; to light up; to adorn.

ILLUMINEE
Il*lu`mi*nee", n. Etym: [F. illuminé. Cf. Illuminati.]

Defn: One of the Illuminati.

ILLUMINER
Il*lu"mi*ner, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, illuminates.

ILLUMINISM
Il*lu"mi*nism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. illuminisme.]

Defn: The principles of the Illuminati.

ILLUMINISTIC
Il*lu`mi*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to illuminism, or the Illuminati.

ILLUMINIZE
Il*lu"mi*nize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illuminized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Illuminizing.]

Defn: To initiate the doctrines or principles of the Illuminati.

ILLUMINOUS
Il*lu"mi*nous, a.

Defn: Bright; clear. [R.] H. Taylor.

ILLURE
Il*lure", v. t. Etym: [Pref. il- in + lure.]

Defn: To deceive; to entice; to lure. [Obs.]
The devil insnareth the souls of many men, by illuring them with the
muck and dung of this world. Fuller.

ILL-USED
Ill`-used", a.

Defn: Misapplied; treated badly.

ILLUSION
Il*lu"sion, n. Etym: [F. illusion, L. illusio, fr. illudere, illusum,
to illude. See Illude.]

1. An unreal image presented to the bodily or mental vision; a
deceptive appearance; a false show; mockery; hallucination.
To cheat the eye with blear illusions. Milton.

2. Hence: Anything agreeably fascinating and charning; enchantment;
witchery; glamour.
Ye soft illusions, dear deceits, arise! Pope.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: A sensation originated by some external object, but so modified
as in any way to lead to an erroneous perception; as when the rolling
of a wagon is mistaken for thunder.

Note: Some modern writers distinguish between an illusion and
hallucination, regarding the former as originating with some external
object, and the latter as having no objective occasion whatever.

4. A plain, delicate lace, usually of silk, used for veils, scarfs,
dresses, etc.

Syn.
 -- Delusion; mockery; deception; chimera; fallacy. See Delusion.
Illusion, Delusion. Illusion refers particularly to errors of the
sense; delusion to false hopes or deceptions of the mind. An optical
deception is an illusion; a false opinion is a delusion. E. Edwards.

ILLUSIONABLE
Il*lu"sion*a*ble, a.

Defn: Liable to illusion.

ILLUSIONIST
Il*lu"sion*ist, n.

Defn: One given to illusion; a visionary dreamer.

ILLUSIVE
Il*lu"sive, a. Etym: [See Illude.]

Defn: Deceiving by false show; deceitful; deceptive; false; illusory;
unreal.
Truth from illusive falsehood to command. Thomson.

ILLUSIVELY
Il*lu"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a illusive manner; falsely.

ILLUSIVENESS
Il*lu"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being illusive; deceptiveness; false show.

ILLUSORY
Il*lu"so*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. illusore.]

Defn: Deceiving, or tending of deceive; fallacious; illusive; as,
illusory promises or hopes.

ILLUSTRABLE
Il*lus"tra*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of illustration. Sir T. Browne.

ILLUSTRATE
Il*lus"trate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illustrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Illustrating.] Etym: [L. illustratus, p.p. of illustrare to
illustrate, fr. illustris bright. See Illustrious.]

1. To make clear, bright, or luminous.
Here, when the moon illustrates all the sky. Chapman.

2. To set in a clear light; to exhibit distinctly or conspicuously.
Shak.
To prove him, and illustrate his high worth. Milton.

3. To make clear, intelligible, or apprehensible; to elucidate,
explain, or exemplify, as by means of figures, comparisons, and
examples.

4. To adorn with pictures, as a book or a subject; to elucidate with
pictures, as a history or a romance.

5. To give renown or honor to; to make illustrious; to glorify.
[Obs.]
Matter to me of glory, whom their hate Illustrates. Milton.

ILLUSTRATE
Il*lus"trate, a. Etym: [L. illustratus, p.p.]

Defn: Illustrated; distinguished; illustrious. [Obs.]
This most gallant, illustrate, and learned gentleman. Shak.

ILLUSTRATION
Il`lus*tra"tion, n. Etym: [L. illustratio: cf. F. illustration.]

1. The act of illustrating; the act of making clear and distinct;
education; also, the state of being illustrated, or of being made
clear and distinct.

2. That which illustrates; a comparison or example intended to make
clear or apprehensible, or to remove obscurity.

3. A picture designed to decorate a volume or elucidate a literary
work.

ILLUSTRATIVE
Il*lus"tra*tive, a.

1. Tending or designed to illustrate, exemplify, or elucidate.

2. Making illustrious. [Obs.]

ILLUSTRATIVELY
Il*lus"tra*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of illustration or elucidation. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

ILLUSTRATOR
Il*lus"tra*tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who illustrates.

ILLUSTRATORY
Il*lus"tra*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving to illustrate.

ILLUSTRIOUS
Il*lus"tri*ous, a. Etym: [L. illustris, prob. for illuxtris; fr. il-
in + the root of lucidus bright: cf. F. illustre. See Lucid.]

1. Possessing luster or brightness; brilliant; luminous; splendid.
Quench the light; thine eyes are guides illustrious. Beau. & Fl.

2. Characterized by greatness, nobleness, etc.; eminent; conspicuous;
distinguished.
Illustrious earls, renowened everywhere. Drayton.

3. Conferring luster or honor; renowned; as, illustrious deeds or
titles.

Syn.
 -- Distinguished; famous; remarkable; brilliant; conspicuous; noted;
celebrated; signal; renowened; eminent; exalted; noble; glorious. See
Distinguished, Famous.

ILLUSTRIOUSLY
Il*lus"tri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a illustrious manner; conspicuously; eminently; famously.
Milton.

ILLUSTRIOUSNESS
Il*lus"tri*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being eminent; greatness; grandeur;
glory; fame.

ILLUSTROUS
Il*lus"trous, a. Etym: [Pref. il- not + lustrous.]

Defn: Without luster. [Obs. & R.]

ILLUTATION
Il`lu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. il- in + L. lutum mud: cf. F.
illutation.]

Defn: The act or operation of smearing the body with mud, especially
with the sediment from mineral springs; a mud bath.

ILLUXURIOUS
Il`lux*u"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Not luxurious. [R.] Orrery.

ILL-WILL
Ill`-will"

Defn: . See under Ill, a.

ILL-WISHER
Ill`-wish"er, n.

Defn: One who wishes ill to another; an enemy.

ILLY
Il"ly, adv.

Defn: Etym: [A word not fully approved, but sometimes used for the
adverb ill.]

ILMENITE
Il"men*ite, n. Etym: [So called from Ilmen, a branch of the Ural
Mountains.] (Min.)

Defn: Titanic iron. See Menaccanite.

ILMENIUM
Il*me"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Ilmenite.] (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed element claimed to have been discovered by
R.Harmann.

ILVAITE
Il"va*ite, n. Etym: [From L. Ilva, the island now called Elba.]
(Min.)

Defn: A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic
crystals and columnar masses.

I'M
I'm

Defn: . A contraction of I am.

IM-
Im-

Defn: . A form of the prefix in- not, and in- in. See In-. Im- also
occurs in composition with some words not of Latin origin; as,
imbank, imbitter.

IMAGE
Im"age, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. imago, imaginis, from the root of
imitari to imitate. See Imitate, and cf. Imagine.]

1. An imitation, representation, or similitude of any person, thing,
or act, sculptured, drawn, painted, or otherwise made perceptible to
the sight; a visible presentation; a copy; a likeness; an effigy; a
picture; a semblance.
Even like a stony image, cold and numb. Shak.
Whose is this image and superscription Matt. xxii. 20.
This play is the image of a murder done in Vienna. Shak.
And God created man in his own image. Gen. i. 27.

2. Hence: The likeness of anything to which worship is paid; an idol.
Chaucer.
Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, . . . thou shalt not
bow down thyself to them. Ex. xx. 4, 5.

3. Show; appearance; cast.
The face of things a frightful image bears. Dryden.

4. A representation of anything to the mind; a picture drawn by the
fancy; a conception; an idea.
Can we conceive Image of aught delightful, soft, or great Prior.

5. (Rhet.)

Defn: A picture, example, or illustration, often taken from sensible
objects, and used to illustrate a subject; usually, an extended
metaphor. Brande & C.

6. (Opt.)

Defn: The figure or picture of any object formed at the focus of a
lens or mirror, by rays of light from the several points of the
object symmetrically refracted or reflected to corresponding points
in such focus; this may be received on a screen, a photographic
plate, or the retina of the eye, and viewed directly by the eye, or
with an eyeglass, as in the telescope and microscope; the likeness of
an object formed by reflection; as, to see one's image in a mirror.
Electrical image. See under Electrical.
 -- Image breaker, one who destroys images; an iconoclast.
 -- Image graver, Image maker, a sculptor.
 -- Image worship, the worship of images as symbols; iconolatry
distinguished from idolatry; the worship of images themselves.
 -- Image Purkinje (Physics), the image of the retinal blood vessels
projected in, not merely on, that membrane.
 -- Virtual image (Optics), a point or system of points, on one side
of a mirror or lens, which, if it existed, would emit the system of
rays which actually exists on the other side of the mirror or lens.
Clerk Maxwell.

IMAGE
Im"age, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imaged; p. pr. & vb. n. Imaging.]

1. To represent or form an image of; as, the still lake imaged the
shore; the mirror imaged her figure. "Shrines of imaged saints." J.
Warton.

2. To represent to the mental vision; to form a likeness of by the
fancy or recollection; to imagine.
Condemn'd whole years in absence to deplore, And image charms he must
behold no more. Pope.

IMAGEABLE
Im"age*a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be imaged. [R.]

IMAGELESS
Im"age*less, a.

Defn: Having no image. Shelley.

IMAGER
Im"a*ger, n.

Defn: One who images or forms likenesses; a sculptor. [Obs.]
Praxiteles was ennobled for a rare imager. Holland.

IMAGERY
Im"age*ry, n. Etym: [OE. imagerie, F. imagerie.]

1. The work of one who makes images or visible representation of
objects; imitation work; images in general, or in mass. "Painted
imagery." Shak.
In those oratories might you see Rich carvings, portraitures, and
imagery. Dryden.

2. Fig.: Unreal show; imitation; appearance.
What can thy imagery of sorrow mean Prior.

3. The work of the imagination or fancy; false ideas; imaginary
phantasms.
The imagery of a melancholic fancy. Atterbury.

4. Rhetorical decoration in writing or speaking; vivid descriptions
presenting or suggesting images of sensible objects; figures in
discourse.
I wish there may be in this poem any instance of good imagery.
Dryden.

IMAGINABILITY
Im*ag`i*na*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capacity for imagination. [R.] Coleridge.

IMAGINABLE
Im*ag"i*na*ble, a. Etym: [L. imaginabilis: cf. F. imaginable.]

Defn: Capable of being imagined; conceivable.
Men sunk into the greatest darkness imaginable. Tillotson.
-- Im*ag"i*na*ble*ness, n.
 -- Im*ag"i*na*bly, adv.

IMAGINAL
Im*ag"i*nal, a. Etym: [L. imaginalis.]

1. Characterized by imagination; imaginative; also, given to the use
or rhetorical figures or imagins.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an imago. Imaginal disks (Zoöl.), masses of
hypodermic cells, carried by the larvæ of some insects after leaving
the egg, from which masses the wings and legs of the adult are
subsequently formed.

IMAGINANT
Im*ag"i*nant, a. Etym: [L. imaginans, p.pr. of imaginari: cf. F.
imaginant.]

Defn: Imagining; conceiving. [Obs.] Bacon.
 -- n.

Defn: An imaginer. [Obs.] Glanvill.

IMAGINARILY
Im*ag"i*na*ri*ly, a.

Defn: In a imaginary manner; in imagination. B. Jonson.

IMAGINARINESS
Im*ag"i*na*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being imaginary; unreality.

IMAGINARY
Im*ag"i*na*ry, a. Etym: [L. imaginarius: cf. F. imaginaire.]

Defn: Existing only in imagination or fancy; not real; fancied;
visionary; ideal.
Wilt thou add to all the griefs I suffer Imaginary ills and fancied
tortures Addison.
Imaginary calculus See under Calculus.
 -- Imaginary expression or quantity (Alg.), an algebraic expression
which involves the impossible operation of taking the square root of
a negative quantity; as, sq. root-9, a + b sq. root-1.
 -- Imaginary points, lines, surfaces, etc. (Geom.), points, lines,
surfaces, etc., imagined to exist, although by reason of certain
changes of a figure they have in fact ceased to have a real
existence.

Syn.
 -- Ideal; fanciful; chimerical; visionary; fancied; unreal;
illusive.

IMAGINARY
Im*ag"i*na*ry, n. (Alg.)

Defn: An imaginary expression or quantity.

IMAGINATE
Im*ag"i*nate, a.

Defn: Imaginative. [Obs.] Holland.

IMAGINATION
Im*ag`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [OE. imaginacionum, F. imagination, fr. L.
imaginatio. See Imagine.]

1. The imagine-making power of the mind; the power to create or
reproduce ideally an object of sense previously perceived; the power
to call up mental imagines.
Our simple apprehension of corporeal objects, if present, is sense;
if absent, is imagination. Glanvill.
Imagination is of three kinds: joined with belief of that which is to
come; joined with memory of that which is past; and of things
present, or as if they were present. Bacon.

2. The representative power; the power to reconstruct or recombine
the materials furnished by direct apprehension; the complex faculty
usually termed the plastic or creative power; the fancy.
The imagination of common language -- the productive imagination of
philosophers -- is nothing but the representative process plus the
process to which I would give the name of the "comparative." Sir W.
Hamilton.
The power of the mind to decompose its conceptions, and to recombine
the elements of them at its pleasure, is called its faculty of
imagination. I. Taylor.
The business of conception is to present us with an exact transcript
of what we have felt or perceived. But we have moreover a power of
modifying our conceptions, by combining the parts of different ones
together, so as to form new wholes of our creation. I shall employ
the word imagination to express this power. Stewart.

3. The power to recombine the materials furnished by experience or
memory, for the accomplishment of an elevated purpose; the power of
conceiving and expressing the ideal.
The lunatic, the lover, and the poet Are of imagination all compact .
. . The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, Doth glance from heaven
to earth, from earth to heaven, And as imagination bodies forth The
forms of things unknown, the poet's pen Turns them to shapes, and
gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name. Shak.

4. A mental image formed by the action of the imagination as a
faculty; a conception; a notion. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Conception; idea; conceit; fancy; device; origination; invention;
scheme; design; purpose; contrivance.
 -- Imagination, Fancy. These words have, to a great extent, been
interchanged by our best writers, and considered as strictly
synonymous. A distinction, however, is now made between them which
more fully exhibits their nature. Properly speaking, they are
different exercises of the same general power -- the plastic or
creative faculty. Imagination consists in taking parts of our
conceptions and combining them into new forms and images more select,
more striking, more delightful, more terrible, etc., than those of
ordinary nature. It is the higher exercise of the two. It creates by
laws more closely connected with the reason; it has strong emotion as
its actuating and formative cause; it aims at results of a definite
and weighty character. Milton's fiery lake, the debates of his
Pandemonium, the exquisite scenes of his Paradise, are all products
of the imagination. Fancy moves on a lighter wing; it is governed by
laws of association which are more remote, and sometimes arbitrary or
capricious. Hence the term fanciful, which exhibits fancy in its
wilder flights. It has for its actuating spirit feelings of a lively,
gay, and versatile character; it seeks to please by unexpected
combinations of thought, startling contrasts, flashes of brilliant
imagery, etc. Pope's Rape of the Lock is an exhibition of fancy which
has scarcely its equal in the literature of any country.
 -- "This, for instance, Wordworth did in respect of the words
`imagination' and `fancy.' Before he wrote, it was, I suppose,
obscurely felt by most that in `imagination' there was more of the
earnest, in `fancy' of the play of the spirit; that the first was a
loftier faculty and gift than the second; yet for all this words were
continually, and not without loss, confounded. He first, in the
preface to his Lyrical Ballads, rendered it henceforth impossible
that any one, who had read and mastered what he has written on the
two words, should remain unconscious any longer of the important
difference between them." Trench.
The same power, which we should call fancy if employed on a
production of a light nature, would be dignified with the title of
imagination if shown on a grander scale. C. J. Smith.

IMAGINATIONAL
Im*ag`i*na"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, involving, or caused by, imagination.

IMAGINATIONALISM
Im*ag`i*na"tion*al*ism, n.

Defn: Idealism. J. Grote.

IMAGINATIVE
Im*ag"i*na*tive, a. Etym: [F. imaginatif.]

1. Proceeding from, and characterized by, the imagination, generally
in the highest sense of the word.
In all the higher departments of imaginative art, nature still
constitues an important element. Mure.

2. Given to imagining; full of images, fancies, etc.; having a quick
imagination; conceptive; creative.
Milton had a highly imaginative, Cowley a very fanciful mind.
Coleridge.

3. Unreasonably suspicious; jealous. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- Im*ag"i*na*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Im*ag"i*na*tive*ness, n.

IMAGINE
Im*ag"ine, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imagined; p. pr. & vb. n. Imagining.]
Etym: [F. imaginer, L. imaginari, p.p. imaginatus, fr. imago image.
See Image.]

1. To form in the mind a notion or idea of; to form a mental image
of; to conceive; to produce by the imagination.
In the night, imagining some fear, How easy is a bush supposed a
bear! Shak.

2. To contrive in purpose; to scheme; to devise; to compass; to
purpose. See Compass, v. t., 5.
How long will ye imagine mischief against a man Ps. lxii. 3.

3. To represent to one's self; to think; to believe. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To fancy; conceive; apprehend; think; believe; suppose; opine;
deem; plan; scheme; devise.

IMAGINE
Im*ag"ine, v. i.

1. To form images or conceptions; to conceive; to devise.

2. To think; to suppose.
My sister is not so defenseless left As you imagine. Milton.

IMAGINER
Im*ag"in*er, n.

Defn: One who forms ideas or conceptions; one who contrives. Bacon.

IMAGINOUS
Im*ag"in*ous, a.

Defn: Imaginative. [R.] Chapman.

IMAGO
I*ma"go, n.; pl. Imagoes. Etym: [L. See Image.]

1. An image.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The final adult, and usually winged, state of an insect. See
Illust. of Ant-lion, and Army worm.

IMAM; IMAN; IMAUM
I*mam", I*man", I*maum", n. Etym: [Ar. imam.]

1. Among the Mohammedans, a minister or priest who performs the
regular service of the mosque.

2. A Mohammedan prince who, as a successor of Mohammed, unites in his
person supreme spiritual and temporal power.

IMARET
I*ma"ret, n. Etym: [Turk., fr. Ar. 'imara.]

Defn: A lodging house for Mohammedan pilgrims. Moore.

IMBALM
Im*balm", v. t.

Defn: See Embalm.

IMBAN
Im*ban", v. t.

Defn: To put under a ban. [R.] Barlow.

IMBAND
Im*band", v. t.

Defn: To form into a band or bands. "Imbanded nations." J. Barlow.

IMBANK
Im*bank", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imbanked; p. pr. & vb. n. Imbanking.]
Etym: [Pref. im- in + bank. Cf. Embank.]

Defn: To inclose or defend with a bank or banks. See Embank.

IMBANKMENT
Im*bank"ment, n.

Defn: The act of surrounding with a bank; a bank or mound raised for
defense, a roadway, etc.; an embankment. See Embankment.

IMBANNERED
Im*ban"nered, a.

Defn: Having banners.

IMBAR
Im*bar", v. t.

Defn: To bar in; to secure. [Obs.]
To imbar their crooked titles. Shak.

IMBARGO
Im*bar"go, n.

Defn: See Embargo.

IMBARK
Im*bark", v. i. & t.

Defn: See Embark.

IMBARN
Im*barn", v. t.

Defn: To store in a barn. [Obs.]

IMBASE
Im*base", v. t.

Defn: See Embase.

IMBASE
Im*base", v. i.

Defn: To diminish in value. [Obs.] Hales.

IMBASTARDIZE
Im*bas"tard*ize, v. t.

Defn: To bastardize; to debase. [Obs.] Milton.

IMBATHE
Im*bathe", v. t. Etym: [Pref. im- in + bathe. Cf. Embathe.]

Defn: To bathe; to wash freely; to immerce.
And gave her to his daughters to imbathe In nectared lavers strewed
with asphodel. Milton.

IMBAY
Im*bay", v. t.

Defn: See Embay.

IMBECILE
Im"be*cile, a. Etym: [L. imbecillis, and imbecillus; of unknown
origin: cf. F. imbécile.]

Defn: Destitute of strength, whether of body or mind; feeble;
impotent; esp., mentally wea; feeble-minded; as, hospitals for the
imbecile and insane.

Syn.
 -- Weak; feeble; feeble-minded; idiotic.

IMBECILE
Im"be*cile, n.

Defn: One destitute of strength; esp., one of feeble mind.

IMBECILE
Im"be*cile, v. t.

Defn: To weaken; to make imbecile; as, to imbecile men's courage.
[Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

IMBECILITATE
Im`be*cil"i*tate, v. t.

Defn: To weaken, as to the body or the mind; to enfeeble. [R.] A.
Wilson.

IMBECILITY
Im`be*cil"i*ty, n.; pl. Imbecilities. Etym: [L. imbecillitas: cf. F.
imbécillité.]

Defn: The quality of being imbecile; weakness; feebleness, esp. of
mind.
Cruelty . . . argues not only a depravedness of nature, but also a
meanness of courage and imbecility of mind. Sir W. Temple.

Note: This term is used specifically to denote natural weakness of
the mental faculties, affecting one's power to act reasonably or
intelligently.

Syn.
 -- Debility; infirmity; weakness; feebleness; impotence. See
Debility.

IMBED
Im*bed", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imbedded; p. pr. & vb. n. Imbedding.]
Etym: [Pref. im- in + bed. Cf. Embed.]

Defn: To sink or lay, as in a bed; to deposit in a partly inclosing
mass, as of clay or mortar; to cover, as with earth, sand, etc.

IMBELLIC
Im*bel"lic, a. Etym: [L. imbellis; pref. im- = in- not + bellum war;
cf. bellicus warlike.]

Defn: Not warlike or martial. [Obs.] R. Junius.

IMBENCHING
Im*bench"ing, n. Etym: [Pref. im- in + bench.]

Defn: A raised work like a bench. [Obs.] Parkhurst.

IMBER-GOOSE
Im"ber-goose`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The loon. See Ember-goose.

IMBEZZLE
Im*bez"zle, v. t. [Obs.]

Defn: See Embezzle.

IMBIBE
Im*bibe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imbibed; p. pr. & vb. n. Imbibing.]
Etym: [L. imbibere; pref. im- in + bibere to drink: cf. F. imbiber.
Cf. Bib, Imbue, Potable.]

1. To drink in; to absorb; to suck or take in; to receive as by
drinking; as, a person imbibes drink, or a sponge imbibes moisture.

2. To receive or absorb into the mind and retain; as, to imbibe
principles; to imbibe errors.

3. To saturate; to imbue. [Obs.] "Earth, imbibed with . . . acid."
Sir I. Newton.

IMBIBER
Im*bib"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, imbibes.

IMBIBITION
Im`bi*bi"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. imbibition.]

Defn: The act or process of imbibing, or absorbing; as, the post-
mortem imbibition of poisons. Bacon.

IMBITTER
Im*bit"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imbittered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Imbittering.] Etym: [Pref. im- in + bitter. Cf. Embitter.] [Written
also embitter.]

Defn: To make bitter; hence, to make distressing or more distressing;
to make sad, morose, sour, or malignant.
Is there anything that more imbitters the enjoyment of this life than
shame South.
Imbittered against each other by former contests. Bancroft.

IMBITTERER
Im*bit"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, imbitters.

IMBITTERMENT
Im*bit"ter*ment, n.

Defn: The act of imbittering; bitter feeling; embitterment.

IMBLAZE
Im*blaze", v. t.

Defn: See Emblaze.

IMBLAZON
Im*bla"zon, v. t.

Defn: See Emblazon.

IMBODY
Im*bod"y, v. i. Etym: [See Embody.]

Defn: To become corporeal; to assume the qualities of a material
body. See Embody.
The soul grows clotted by contagion, Imbodies, and imbrutes. Milton.

IMBOIL
Im*boil", v. t. & i. [Obs.]

Defn: See Emboil.

IMBOLDEN
Im*bold"en, v. t.

Defn: See Embolden.

IMBONITY
Im*bon"i*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. im- not + L. bonitas goodness.]

Defn: Want of goodness. [Obs.] Burton.

IMBORDER
Im*bor"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imbordered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Imbordering.] Etym: [Pref. im- in + border. Cf. Emborder.]

Defn: To furnish or inclose with a border; to form a border of.
Milton.

IMBOSK
Im*bosk", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imbosked; p. pr. & vb. n. Imbosking.]
Etym: [CF. It. imboscare to imbosk, imboscarsi to retire into a wood;
pref. im- in + bosco wood. See Boscage, and cf. Ambush.]

Defn: To conceal, as in bushes; to hide. [Obs.] Shelton.

IMBOSK
Im*bosk", v. i.

Defn: To be concealed. [R.] Milton.

IMBOSOM
Im*bos"om, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imbosomed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Imbosoming.] Etym: [Pref. im- in + bosom. Cf. Embosom.]

1. To hold in the bosom; to cherish in the heart or affection; to
embosom.

2. To inclose or place in the midst of; to surround or shelter; as, a
house imbosomed in a grove. "Villages imbosomed soft in trees."
Thomson.
The Father infinite, By whom in bliss imbosomed sat the Son. Milton.

IMBOSS
Im*boss", v. t.

Defn: See Emboss.

IMBOSTURE
Im*bos"ture, n. Etym: [See Emboss.]

Defn: Embossed or raised work. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

IMBOUND
Im*bound", v. t.

Defn: To inclose in limits; to shut in. [Obs.] Shak.

IMBOW
Im*bow", v. t. Etym: [Pref. im- in + bow. Cf. Embow.]

Defn: To make like a bow; to curve; to arch; to vault; to embow.
"Imbowed windows." Bacon.

IMBOWEL
Im*bow"el, v. t.

Defn: See Embowel.

IMBOWER
Im*bow"er, v. t. & i.

Defn: See Embower.

IMBOWMENT
Im*bow"ment, n.

Defn: act of imbowing; an arch; a vault. Bacon.

IMBOX
Im*box", v. t.

Defn: To inclose in a box.

IMBRACERY
Im*bra"cer*y, n.

Defn: Embracery. [Obs.]

IMBRAID
Im*braid", v. t. [Obs.]

Defn: See Embraid.

IMBRANGLE
Im*bran"gle, v. t.

Defn: To entangle as in a cobweb; to mix confusedly. [R.] Hudibras.
Physiology imbrangled with an inapplicable logic. Coleridge.

IMBREED
Im*breed", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Inbreed.]

Defn: To generate within; to inbreed. [Obs.] Hakewill.

IMBRICATE; IMBRICATED
Im"bri*cate, Im"bri*ca`ted, a. Etym: [L. imbricatus, p.p. of
imbricare to cover with tiles, to form like a gutter tile, fr.
imbrex, -icis, a hollow tile, gutter tile, fr. imber rain.]

1. Bent and hollowed like a roof or gutter tile.

2. Lying over each other in regular order, so as to "break joints,"
like tiles or shingles on a roof, the scales on the leaf buds of
plants and the cups of some acorns, or the scales of fishes;
overlapping each other at the margins, as leaves in æstivation.

3. In decorative art: Having scales lapping one over the other, or a
representation of such scales; as, an imbricated surface; an
imbricated pattern.

IMBRICATE
Im"bri*cate, v. t.

Defn: To lay in order, one lapping over another, so as to form an
imbricated surface.

IMBRICATION
Im`bri*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. imbrication.]

Defn: An overlapping of the edges, like that of tiles or shingles;
hence, intricacy of structure; also, a pattern or decoration
representing such a structure.

IMBRICATIVE
Im"bri*ca*tive, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Imbricate.

IMBROCADO
Im`bro*ca"do, n.; pl. Imbrocadoes. Etym: [See Brocade.]

Defn: Cloth of silver or of gold. [R.]

IMBROCATA; IMBROCCATA
Im`bro*ca"ta, Im`broc*ca"ta, n. Etym: [It. imbroccata.]

Defn: A hit or thrust. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

IMBROGLIO
Im*brogl"io, n.; pl. Imbroglios. [Written also embroglio.] Etym: [It.
See 1st Broil, and cf. Embroil.]

1. An intricate, complicated plot, as of a drama or work of fiction.

2. A complicated and embarrassing state of things; a serious
misunderstanding.
Wrestling to free itself from the baleful imbroglio. Carlyle.

IMBROWN
Im*brown", v. t. Etym: [Pref. im- in + brown. Cf. Embrown.]

Defn: To make brown; to obscure; to darken; to tan; as, features
imbrowned by exposure.
The mountain mass by scorching skies imbrowned. Byron.

IMBRUE
Im*brue", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imbureed; p. pr. & vb. n. Imbureing.]
Etym: [Cf. OF. embruer, also embruver, embreuver, embrever, to give
to drink, soak (see pref. En-, 1, 1st In-, and Breverage), but also
OE. enbrewen, enbrowen, to stain, soil (cf. Brewis).]

Defn: To wet or moisten; to soak; to drench, especially in blood.
While Darwen stream, will blood of Scots imbrued. Milton.

IMBRUEMENT
Im*brue"ment, n.

Defn: The act of imbruing or state of being imbrued.

IMBRUTE
Im*brute", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imbruted; p. pr. & vb. n. Imbruting.]
Etym: [Pref. im- in + brute: cf. F. abrutir. Cf. Embrute.]

Defn: To degrade to the state of a brute; to make brutal.
And mixed with bestial slime, This essence to incarnate and imbrute.
Milton.

IMBRUTE
Im*brute", v. i.

Defn: To sink to the state of a brute.
The soul grows clotted by contagion, Imbodies, and imbrutes, till she
quite lose The divine property of her first being. Milton.

IMBRUTEMENT
Im*brute"ment, n.

Defn: The act of imbruting, or the state of being imbruted. [R.]
Brydges.

IMBUE
Im*bue", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imbued; p. pr. & vb. n. Imbuing.] Etym:
[L. imbuere; pref. im- in + perh. a disused simple word akin to L.
bibere to drink. Cf. Imbibe.]

1. To tinge deeply; to dye; to cause to absorb; as, clothes
thoroughly imbued with black.

2. To tincture deply; to cause to become impressed or penetrated; as,
to imbue the minds of youth with good principles.
Thy words with grace divine Imbued, bring to their sweetness no
satiety. Milton.

IMBUEMENT
Im*bue"ment, n.

Defn: The act of imbuing; the state of being imbued; hence, a deep
tincture.

IMBURSE
Im*burse", v. t. Etym: [Pref. im- in + burse: cf. F. embourser to put
into one's purse. See Burse, and Purse.]

Defn: To supply or stock with money. [Obs.]

IMBURSEMENT
Im*burse"ment, n.

1. The act of imbursing, or the state of being imbursed. [Obs.]

2. Money laid up in stock. [Obs.]

IMBUTION
Im*bu"tion, n.

Defn: An imbuing. [Obs.]

IMESATIN
I*mes"a*tin, n. Etym: [Imide + isatin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A dark yellow, crystalline substance, obtained by the action of
ammonia on isatin.

IMIDE
Im"ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound with, or derivative of, the imido group; specif., a
compound of one or more acid radicals with the imido group, or with a
monamine; hence, also, a derivative of ammonia, in which two atoms of
hydrogen have been replaced by divalent basic or acid radicals; --
frequently used as a combining form; as, succinimide.

IMIDO
Im"i*do, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, containing, or combined with, the radical NH,
which is called the imido group. Imido acid, an organic acid,
consisting of one or more acid radicals so united with the imido
group that it contains replaceable acid hydrogen, and plays the part
of an acid; as, uric acid, succinimide, etc., are imido acids.

IMITABILITY
Im`it*a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [See Imitable.]

Defn: The quality of being imitable. Norris.

IMITABLE
Im"i*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. imitabilis: cf. F. imitable. See Imitate.]

1. Capble of being imitated or copied.
The characters of man placed in lower stations of life are more
usefull, as being imitable by great numbers. Atterbury.

2. Worthy of imitation; as, imitable character or qualities. Sir W.
Raleigh.

IMITABLENESS
Im"i*ta*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being imitable; worthness of imitation.

IMITANCY
Im"i*tan*cy, n. Etym: [From L. imitans, p. pr. of imitare.]

Defn: Tendency to imitation. [R.] Carlyle.

IMITATE
Im"i*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imitated; p. pr. & vb. n. Imitating.]
Etym: [L. imitatus, p. p. of imitari to imitate; of unknown origin.
Cf. Image.]

1. To follow as a pattern, model, or example; to copy or strive to
copy, in acts, manners etc.
Despise wealth and imitate a dog. Cowlay.

2. To produce a semblance or likeness of, in form, character, color,
qualities, conduct, manners, and the like; to counterfeit; to copy.
A place picked out by choice of best alive The Nature's work by art
can imitate. Spenser.
This hand appeared a shining sword to weild, And that sustained an
imitated shield. Dryden.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: To resemble (another species of animal, or a plant, or
inanimate object) in form, color, ornamentation, or instinctive
habits, so as to derive an advantage thereby; sa, when a harmless
snake imitates a venomous one in color and manner, or when an
odorless insect imitates, in color, one having secretion offensive to
birds.

IMITATION
Im"i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. imitatio: cf. F. imitation.]

1. The act of imitating.
Poesy is an art of imitation, . . . that is to say, a representing,
counterfeiting, or figuring forth. Sir P. Sidney.

2. That which is made or produced as a copy; that which is made to
resemble something else, whether for laudable or for fraudulent
purposes; likeness; resemblance.
Both these arts are not only true imitations of nature, but of the
best nature. Dryden.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: One of the principal means of securing unity and consistency in
polyphonic composition; the repetition of essentially the same
melodic theme, phrase, or motive, on different degrees of pitch, by
one or more of the other parts of voises. Cf. Canon.

4. (Biol.)

Defn: The act of condition of imitating another species of animal, or
a plant, or unanimate object. See Imitate, v. t., 3.

Note: Imitation is often used adjectively to characterize things
which have a deceptive appearance, simulating the qualities of a
superior article; -- opposed to real or genuine; as, imitation lace;
imitation bronze; imitation modesty, etc.

IMITATIONAL
Im`i*ta"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or employed in, imitation; as, imitational
propensities.

IMITATIVE
Im"i*ta*tive, a. Etym: [L. imitavitus: cf. F. imitatif.]

1. Inclined to imitate, copy, or follow; imitating; exhibiting some
of the qualities or characteristics of a pattern or model; dependent
on example; not original; as, man is an imitative being; painting is
an imitative art.

2. Formed after a model, pattern, or original.
This temple, less in form, with equal grace, Was imitative of the
first in Thrace. Dryden.

3. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Designed to imitate another species of animal, or a plant, or
inanimate object, for some useful purpose, such as protection from
enemies; having resamblance to something else; as, imitative colors;
imitative habits; dendritic and mammillary forms of minerals are
imitative.
 -- Im"i*ta*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Im"i*ta*tive*ness, n.

IMITATIVE
Im"i*ta*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: A verb expressive of imitation or resemblance. [R.]

IMITATOR
Im"i*ta"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who imitates.

IMITATORSHIP
Im"i*ta`tor*ship, n.

Defn: The state or office of an imitator. "Servile imitatorship."
Marston.

IMITATRESS
Im"i*ta`tress, n.

Defn: A woman who is an imitator.

IMITATRIX
Im"i*ta`trix, n.

Defn: An imitatress.

IMMACULATE
Im*mac"u*late, a. Etym: [L. immaculatus; pref. im- not + maculatus,
p. p. of maculare to spot, stane, fr. macula spot. See Mail armor.]

Defn: Without stain or blemish; spotless; undefiled; clear; pure.
Were but my soul as pure From other guilt as that, Heaven did not
hold One more immaculate. Denham.
Thou sheer, immaculate and silver fountain. Shak.
Immaculate conception (R. C. Ch.), the doctrine that the Virgin Mary
was conceived without original sin.
 -- Im*mac"u*late*ly, adv.
 -- Im*mac"u*late*ness, n.

IMMAILED
Im*mailed", a.

Defn: Wearing mail or armor; clad of armor. W. Browne.

IMMALLEABLE
Im*mal"le*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not maleable.

IMMANACLE
Im*man"a*cle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Immanacled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Immanacling.]

Defn: To manacle; to fetter; hence; to confine; to restrain from free
action.
Although this corporal rind Thou hast immanacled. Milton.

IMMANATION
Im"ma*na"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. im- in + L. manare to flow; cf. mantio
a flowing.]

Defn: A flowing or entering in; -- opposed to emanation. [R.] Good.

IMMANE
Im*mane", a. Etym: [L. immanis.]

Defn: Very great; huge; vast; also, monstrous in character; inhuman;
atrocious; fierce. [Obs.] "So immane a man." Chapman.
 -- Im*mane"ly, adv. [Obs.]

IMMANENCE; IMMANENCY
Im"ma*nence, Im"ma*nen*cy, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of being immanent; inherence; an
indwelling.
[Clement] is mainly concerned in enforcing the immanence of God.
Christ is everywhere presented by him as Deity indwelling in the
world. A. V. G. Allen.

IMMANENT
Im"ma*nent, a. Etym: [L. immanens, p. pr. of immanere to remain in or
near; pref. im- in + manere to remain: cf. F. immanent.]

Defn: Remaining within; inherent; indwelling; abiding; intrinsic;
internal or subjective; hence, limited in activity, agency, or
effect, to the subject or associated acts; -- opposed to emanant,
transitory, transitive, or objective.
A cognition is an immanent act of mind. Sir W. Hamilton.
An immanent power in the life of the world. Hare.

IMMANIFEST
Im*man"i*fest, a.

Defn: Not manifest. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

IMMANITY
Im*man"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. immanitas.]

Defn: The state or quality of being immane; barbarity. [R.] Shak.

IMMANTLE
Im*man"tle, v. t.

Defn: See Emmantle. [R.]

IMMANUEL
Im*man"u*el, n. Etym: [Heb. 'imman, fr. 'im with + an us + el God.]

Defn: God with us; -- an appellation of the Christ. Is. vii. 14.
Matt. i. 23.

IMMARCESCIBLE
Im`mar*ces"ci*ble, a. Etym: [L. immarcescibilis; pref. im- not +
marcescere to fade: cf. F. immarcescible.]

Defn: Unfading; lasting. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

IMMARCESCIBLY
Im`mar*ces"ci*bly, adv.

Defn: Unfadingly. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

IMMARGINATE
Im*mar"gin*ate, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Not having a distinctive margin or border. Grey.

IMMARTIAL
Im*mar"tial, a.

Defn: Not martial; unwarlike. [Obs.]

IMMASK
Im*mask", v. t.

Defn: To cover, as with a mask; to disguise or conceal. [R.] Shak.

IMMATCHABLE
Im*match"a*ble, a.

Defn: Matchless; peerless. [Obs.] Holland.

IMMATERIAL
Im"ma*te"ri*al, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + material: cf. F.
immatériel.]

1. Not consisting of matter; incorporeal; spiritual; disembodied.
Angels are spirits immaterial and intellectual. Hooker.

2. Of no substantial consequence; without weight or significance;
unimportant; as, it is wholly immaterial whether he does so or not.

Syn.
 -- Unimportant; inconsequential; insignificant; inconsiderable;
trifling.

IMMATERIALISM
Im`ma*te"ri*al*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. immatérialisme.]

1. The doctrine that immaterial substances or spiritual being exist,
or are possible.

2. (Philos.)

Defn: The doctrine that external bodies may be reduced to mind and
ideas in a mind; any doctrine opposed to materialism or
phenomenalism, esp. a system that maintains the immateriality of the
soul; idealism; esp., Bishop Berkeley's theory of idealism.

IMMATERIALIST
Im`ma*te"ri*al*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. immatérialiste.] (Philos.)

Defn: One who believes in or professes, immaterialism.

IMMATERIALITY
Im`ma*te`ri*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Immaterialities. Etym: [Cf. F.
immatérialité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being immaterial or incorporeal; as,
the immateriality of the soul.

IMMATERIALIZE
Im`ma*te"ri*al*ize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. immatérialiser.]

Defn: To render immaterial or incorporeal.
Immateralized spirits. Glanvill.

IMMATERIALLY
Im`ma*te"ri*al*ly, adv.

1. In an immaterial manner; without matter or corporeal substance.

2. In an unimportant manner or degree.

IMMATERIALNESS
Im`ma*te"ri*al*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being immaterial; immateriality.

IMMATERIATE
Im`ma*te"ri*ate, a.

Defn: Immaterial. [Obs.] Bacon.

IMMATURE
Im`ma*ture", a. Etym: [L. immaturus; pref. im- not + maturus mature,
ripe. See Mature.]

1. Not mature; unripe; not arrived at perfection of full development;
crude; unfinished; as, immature fruit; immature character; immature
plans. "An ill-measured and immature counsel." Bacon.

2. Premature; untimely; too early; as, an immature death. [R.] Jer.
Taylor.

IMMATURED
Im`ma*tured", a.

Defn: Immature.

IMMATURELY
Im`ma*ture"ly, adv.

Defn: In an immature manner. Warburion.

IMMATURENESS
Im`ma*ture"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being immature; immaturity. Boyle.

IMMATURITY
Im`ma*tu"ri*ty, n. Etym: [L. immaturitas: cf. F. immaturité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being immature or not fully developed;
unripeness; incompleteness.
When the world has outgrown its intellectual immaturity. Caird.

IMMEABILITY
Im`me*a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. im- not + L. meabilis passable, fr.
meare to pass.]

Defn: Want of power to pass, or to permit passage; impassableness.
Immeability of the juices. Arbuthnot.

IMMEASURABILITY
Im*meas`ur*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being immeasurable; immensurability.

IMMEASURABLE
Im*meas"ur*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + measurable: cf. F.
measurable. Cf. Immensurable, Unmeasurable.]

Defn: Incapble of being measured; indefinitely extensive;
illimitable; immensurable; vast.
Of depth immeasurable. Milton.

IMMEASURABLENESS
Im*meas"ur*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being immeasurable.
Eternity and immeasurableness belong to thought alone. F. W.
Robertson.

IMMEASURABLY
Im*meas"ur*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an immeasurable manner or degree. "Immeasurably distant."
Wordsworth.

IMMEASURED
Im*meas"ured, a.

Defn: Immeasurable. [R.] Spenser.

IMMECHANICAL
Im`me*chan"ic*al, a.

Defn: Not mechanical. [Obs.] Cheyne.
 -- Im"me*chan"ic*al*ly, adv. [Obs.]

IMMEDIACY
Im*me"di*a*cy, n.

Defn: The relation of freedom from the interventionof a medium;
immediateness. Shak.

IMMEDIATE
Im*me"di*ate, a. Etym: [F. immédiat. See In- not, and Mediate.]

1. Not separated in respect to place by anything intervening;
proximate; close; as, immediate contact.
You are the most immediate to our throne. Shak.

2. Not deferred by an interval of time; present; instant. "Assemble
we immediate council." Shak.
Death . . . not yet inflicted, as he feared, By some immediate
stroke. Milton.

3. Acting with nothing interposed or between, or without the
intervention of another object as a cause, means, or agency; acting,
perceived, or produced, directly; as, an immediate cause.
The immediate knowledge of the past is therefore impossible. Sir. W.
Hamilton.
Immediate amputation (Surg.), an amputation performed within the
first few hours after an injury, and before the the effects of the
shock have passed away.

Syn.
 -- Proximate; close; direct; next.

IMMEDIATELY
Im*me"di*ate*ly, adv.

1. In an immediate manner; without intervention of any other person
or thing; proximately; directly; -- opposed to mediately; as,
immediately contiguous.
God's acceptance of it either immediately by himself, or mediately by
the hands of the bishop. South.

2. Without interval of time; without delay; promptly; instantly; at
once.
And Jesus . . . touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. And
immediately his leprosy was cleansed. Matt. viii. 3.

3. As soon as. Cf. Directly,

8, Note.

Syn.
 -- Directly; instantly; quickly; forthwith; straightway; presently.
See Directly.

IMMEDIATENESS
Im*me"di*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or relations of being immediate in manner, place,
or time; exemption from second or interventing causes. Bp. Hall.

IMMEDIATISM
Im*me"di*a*tism, n.

Defn: Immediateness.

IMMEDICABLE
Im*med"i*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. Immedicabilis. See In- not, and
Medicable.]

Defn: Not to be healed; incurable. "Wounds immedicable." Milton.

IMMELODIOUS
Im`me*lo"di*ous, a.

Defn: Not melodious.

IMMEMORABLE
Im*mem"o*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. immemorabilis; pref. im- not +
memorabilis memorable: cf. F. immémorable. See Memorable.]

Defn: Not memorable; not worth remembering. Johnson.

IMMEMORIAL
Im`me*mo"ri*al, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + memorial: cf. F.
immémorial.]

Defn: Extending beyond the reach of memory, record, or tradition;
indefinitely ancient; as, existing from time immemorial. "Immemorial
elms." Tennyson. "Immemorial usage or custom." Sir M. Hale. Time
immemorial (Eng. Law.), a time antedating (legal) history, and beyond
"legal memory" so called; formerly an indefinite time, but in 1276
this time was fixed by statute as the begining of the reign of
Richard I. (1189). Proof of unbroken possession or use of any right
since that date made it unnecessary to establish the original grant.
In 1832 the plan of dating legal memory from a fixed time was
abandoned and the principle substituted that rights which had been
enjoyed for full twenty years (or as against the crown thirty years)
should not be liable to impeachment merely by proving that they had
not been enjoyed before.

IMMEMORIALLY
Im`me*mo"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Beyond memory. Bentley.

IMMENSE
Im*mense", a. Etym: [L. immensus; pref. im- not + mensus, p. p. of
metiri to measure: cf. F. immense. See Measure.]

Defn: Immeasurable; unlimited. In commonest use: Very great; vast;
huge. "Immense the power" Pope. "Immense and boundless ocean."
Daniel.
O Goodness infinite! Goodness immense! Milton.

Syn.
 -- Infinite; immeasurable; illimitable; unbounded; unlimited;
interminable; vast; prodigious; enormous; monstrous. See Enormous.

IMMENSELY
Im*mense"ly, adv.

Defn: In immense manner or degree.

IMMENSENESS
Im*mense"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being immense.

IMMENSIBLE
Im*men"si*ble, a. Etym: [Immense + -ible.]

Defn: Immeasurable. [Obs.] Davies.

IMMENSITY
Im*men"si*ty, n.; pl. Immensities. Etym: [L. immensitas: cf. F.
immensité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being immense; inlimited or
immeasurable extension; infinity; vastness in extent or bulk;
greatness.
Lost in the wilds of vast immensity. Blackmore.
The immensity of the material system. I. Taylor.

IMMENSIVE
Im*men"sive, a.

Defn: Huge. [Obs.] Herrick.

IMMENSURABILITY
Im*men`su*ra*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being immensurable.

IMMENSURABLE
Im*men"su*ra*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + L. mensurabilis
measurable: cf. F. immensurable. Cf. Immeasurable.]

Defn: Immeasurable.
What an immensurable space is the firmament. Derham.

IMMENSURATE
Im*men"su*rate, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + mensurate.]

Defn: Unmeasured; unlimited. [R.] W. Montagu.

IMMERGE
Im*merge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Immerged; p. pr. & vb. n. Immerging.]
Etym: [L. immergere; pref. im- in + mergere to dip, plunge: cf. F.
immerger. See Merge, and cf. Immerse.]

Defn: To plungel into, under, or within anything especially a fuid;
to dip; to immerse. See Immerse.
We took . . . lukewarm water, and in it immerged a quantity of the
leaves of senna. Boyle.
Their souls are immerged in matter. Jer. Taylor.

IMMERGE
Im*merge", v. i.

Defn: To dissapear by entering into any medium, as a star into the
light of the sun. [R.]

IMMERIT
Im*mer"it, n.

Defn: Want of worth; demerit. [R.] Suckling.

IMMERITED
Im*mer"it*ed, a.

Defn: Unmerited. [Obs.] Charles I.

IMMERITOUS
Im*mer"it*ous, a. Etym: [L. immeritus; pref. im- not + meritus, p. p.
of merere, mereri, to deserve.]

Defn: Undeserving. [Obs.] Milton.

IMMERSABLE
Im*mers"a*ble, a.

Defn: See Immersible.

IMMERSE
Im*merse", a. Etym: [L. immersus, p. p. of immergere. See Immerge.]

Defn: Immersed; buried; hid; sunk. [Obs.] "Things immerse in matter."
Bacon.

IMMERSE
Im*merse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Immersed; p. pr. & vb. n. Immersing.]

1. To plunge into anything that surrounds or covers, especially into
a fluid; to dip; to sink; to bury; to immerge.
Deep immersed beneath its whirling wave. J Warton.
More than a mile immersed within the wood. Dryden.

2. To baptize by immersion.

3. To engage deeply; to engross the attention of; to involve; to
overhelm.
The queen immersed in such a trance. Tennyson.
It is impossible to have a lively hope in another life, and yet be
deeply immersed inn the enjoyments of this. Atterbury.

IMMERSED
Im*mersed", p. p. & a.

1. Deeply plunged into anything, especially a fluid.

2. Deeply occupied; engrossed; entangled.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing wholly under water. Gray.

IMMERSIBLE
Im*mers"i*ble, a. Etym: [From Immerse.]

Defn: Capable of being immersed.

IMMERSIBLE
Im*mers"i*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + L. mersus, p. p. of mergere
to plunge.]

Defn: Not capable of being immersed.

IMMERSION
Im*mer"sion, n. Etym: [L. immersio; cf. F. immersion.]

1. The act of immersing, or the state of being immersed; a sinking
within a fluid; a dipping; as, the immersion of Achilles in the Styx.

2. Submersion in water for the purpose of Christian baptism, as,
practiced by the Baptists.

3. The state of being overhelmed or deeply absorbed; deep
engagedness.
Too deep an immersion in the affairs of life. Atterbury.

4. (Astron.)

Defn: The dissapearance of a celestail body, by passing either behind
another, as in the occultation of a star, or into its shadow, as in
the eclipse of a satellite; -- opposed to emersion. Immersion lens, a
microscopic objective of short focal distance designed to work with a
drop of liquid, as oil, between the front lens and the slide, so that
this lens is practically immersed.

IMMERSIONIST
Im*mer"sion*ist, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: One who holds the doctrine that immersion is essential to
Christian baptism.

IMMESH
Im*mesh", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Immeshed; p. pr. & vb. n. Immeshing.]
Etym: [Pref. im- in + mesh. Cf. Inmesh.]

Defn: To catch or entangle in, or as in, the meshes of a net. or in a
web; to insnare.

IMMETHODICAL
Im`me*thod"ic*al, a.

Defn: Not methodical; without method or systematic arrangement;
without order or regularity; confused. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Irregular; confused; disoderly; unsystematic; desultory.

IMMETHODICALLY
Im`me*thod"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Without method; confusedly; unsystematically.

IMMETHODICALNESS
Im`me*thod"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: Want of method.

IMMETHODIZE
Im*meth"od*ize, v. t.

Defn: To render immethodical; to destroy the method of; to confuse.
[R.]

IMMETRICAL
Im*met"ric*al (, a.

Defn: Not metrical or rhythmical. [R.] Chapman.

IMMEW
Im*mew", v. t.

Defn: See Emmew.

IMMIGRANT
Im"mi*grant, n. Etym: [L. immigrans, p. pr. of immigrare to go into:
cf. F. immigrant. See Immigrate.]

Defn: One who immigrates; one who comes to a country for the purpose
of permanent residence; -- correlative of emigrant.

Syn.
 -- See Emigrant.

IMMIGRATE
Im"mi*grate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Immigrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Immigrating.] Etym: [L. immigrare, immigratum, to immigrate; pref.
im- in + migrare to migrate. See Migrate.]

Defn: To come into a country of which one is not a native, for the
purpose of permanent residence. See Emigrate.

IMMIGRATION
Im"mi*gra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. immigration.]

Defn: The act of immigrating; the passing or coming into a country
for the purpose of permanent residence.
The immigrations of the Arabians into Europe. T. Warton.

IMMINENCE
Im"mi*nence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. imminence, L. imminentia, See
Imminent.]

1. The condition or quality of being imminent; a threatening, as of
something about to happen. The imminence of any danger or distress.
Fuller.

2. That which is imminent; impending evil or danger. "But dare all
imminence." Shak.

IMMINENT
Im"mi*nent, a. Etym: [L. imminens, p. pr. of imminere to project;
pref. im- in + minere (in comp.) to jut, project. See Eminent.]

1. Threatening to occur immediately; near at hand; impending; -- said
especially of misfortune or peril. "In danger imminent." Spenser.

2. Full of danger; threatening; menacing; perilous.
Hairbreadth scapes i' the imminent deadly breach. Shak.

3. (With upon) Bent upon; attentive to. [R.]
Their eyes ever imminent upon worldly matters. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Impending; threatening; near; at hand.
 -- Imminent, Impending, Threatening. Imminent is the strongest: it
denotes that something is ready to fall or happen on the instant; as,
in imminent danger of one's life. Impending denotes that something
hangs suspended over us, and may so remain indefinitely; as, the
impending evils of war. Threatening supposes some danger in prospect,
but more remote; as, threatening indications for the future.
Three times to-day You have defended me from imminent death. Shak.
No story I unfold of public woes, Nor bear advices of impending foes.
Pope.
Fierce faces threatening war. Milton.

IMMINENTLY
Im"mi*nent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an imminent manner.

IMMINGLE
Im*min"gle, v. t.

Defn: To mingle; to mix; to unite; to blend. [R.] Thomson.

IMMINUTION
Im`mi*nu"tion, n. Etym: [L. imminutio, fr. imminuere, imminutum, to
lessen; pref. im- in + minuere.]

Defn: A lessening; diminution; decrease. [R.] Ray.

IMMISCIBILITY
Im*mis"ci*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. immiscibilité.]

Defn: Incapability of being mixed, or mingled.

IMMISCIBLE
Im*mis"ci*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + miscible: cf. F.
immiscible.]

Defn: Not capable of being mixed or mingled.
A chaos of immiscible and conflicting particles. Cudworth.

IMMISSION
Im*mis"sion, n. Etym: [L. immissio: cf. F. immission. See Immit.]

Defn: The act of immitting, or of sending or thrusting in; injection;
-- the correlative of emission.

IMMIT
Im*mit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Immitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Immiting.]
Etym: [L. immittere, immissum; pref. im- in + mittere to send.]

Defn: To send in; to inject; to infuse; -- the correlative of emit.
[R.] Boyle.

IMMITIGABLE
Im*mit"i*ga*ble, a. Etym: [L. immitigabilis; fr. pref. im- not +
mitigare to mitigate.]

Defn: Not capable of being mitigated, softened, or appeased.
Coleridge.

IMMITIGABLY
Im*mit"i*ga*bly, adv.

Defn: In an immitigable manner.

IMMIX
Im*mix", v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + mix.]

Defn: To mix; to mingle. [R.]
Amongst her tears immixing prayers meek. Spenser.

IMMIXABLE
Im*mix"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not mixable. Bp. Wilkins.

IMMIXED
Im*mixed", a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + mixed, p. p. of mix.]

Defn: Unmixed. [Obs.]
How pure and immixed the design is. Boyle.

IMMIXTURE
Im*mix"ture, n.

Defn: Freedom from mixture; purity. [R.] W. Montagu.

IMMOBILE
Im*mo"bile, a. Etym: [L. immobilis: cf. F. immobile. See Immobility.]

Defn: Incapable of being moved; immovable; fixed; stable. Prof.
Shedd.

IMMOBILITY
Im`mo*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. immobilitas, fr. immobilis immovable;
pref. im- not + mobilis movable: cf. F. immobilité. See Mobile.]

Defn: The condition or quality of being immobile; fixedness in place
or state.

IMMOBILIZE
Im*mob"i*lize, v. t. Etym: [Pref. im- in + mobilize; cf. f.
immobiliser.]

Defn: To make immovable; in surgery, to make immovable (a naturally
mobile part, as a joint) by the use of splints, or stiffened
bandages.

IMMOBLE
Im*mo"ble, a. [Obs.]

Defn: See Immobile.

IMMODERACY
Im*mod"er*a*cy, n. Etym: [From Immoderate.]

Defn: Immoderateness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

IMMODERANCY
Im*mod"er*an*cy, n. Etym: [L. immoderantia.]

Defn: Immoderateness; excess. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

IMMODERATE
Im*mod"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. immoderatus; pref. im- not + moderatus
moderate. See Moderate.]

Defn: Not moderate; exceeding just or usual and suitable bounds;
excessive; extravagant; unreasonable; as, immoderate demands;
immoderate grief; immoderate laughter.
So every scope by the immoderate use Turns to restraint. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Excessive; exorbitant; unreasonable; extravagant; intemperate;
inordinate.

IMMODERATELY
Im*mod"er*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an immoderate manner; excessively.

IMMODERATENESS
Im*mod"er*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being immoderate; excess; extravagance. Puller.

IMMODERATION
Im*mod`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. immoderatio: cf. F. imodération.]

Defn: Want of moderation. Hallywell.

IMMODEST
Im*mod"est, a. Etym: [F. immodeste, L. immodestus immoderate; pref.
im- not + modestus modest. See Modest.]

1. Not limited to due bounds; immoderate.

2. Not modest; wanting in the reserve or restraint which decorum and
decency require; indecent; indelicate; obscene; lewd; as, immodest
persons, behavior, words, pictures, etc.
Immodest deeds you hinder to be wrought, But we proscribe the least
immodest thought. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Indecorous; indelicate; shameless; shameful; impudent; indecent;
impure; unchaste; lewd; obscene.

IMMODESTLY
Im*mod"est*ly, adv.

Defn: In an immodest manner.

IMMODESTY
Im*mod"es*ty, n. Etym: [L. immodestia: cf. F. immodestie.]

Defn: Want of modesty, delicacy, or decent reserve; indecency. "A
piece of immodesty." Pope.

IMMOLATE
Im"mo*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Immolated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Immolating.] Etym: [L. immolatus, p. p. of immolare to sacrifice,
orig., to sprinkle a victim with sacrifical meal; pref. im- in + mola
grits or grains of spelt coarsely ground and mixed with salt; also,
mill. See Molar, Meal ground grain.]

Defn: To sacrifice; to offer in sacrifice; to kill, as a sacrificial
victim.
Worshipers, who not only immolate to them [the deities] the lives of
men, but . . . the virtue and honor of women. Boyle.

IMMOLATION
Im`mo*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. immolatio: cf. F. immolation.]

1. The act of immolating, or the state of being immolated, or
sacrificed. Sir. T. Browne.

2. That which is immolated; a sacrifice.

IMMOLATOR
Im"mo*la`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who offers in sacrifice; specifically, one of a sect of
Russian fanatics who practice self-mutilatio and sacrifice.

IMMOLD; IMMOULD
Im*mold", Im*mould", v. t.

Defn: To mold into shape, or form. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.

IMMOMENT
Im*mo"ment, a. Etym: [See Immomentous.]

Defn: Trifling. [R.] "Immoment toys." Shak.

IMMOMENTOUS
Im`mo*men"tous, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + momentous.]

Defn: Not momentous; unimportant; insignificant. [R.] A. Seward.

IMMORAL
Im*mor"al, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + moral: cf. F. immoral.]

Defn: Not moral; inconsistent with rectitude, purity, or good morals;
contrary to conscience or the divine law; wicked; unjust; dishonest;
vicious; licentious; as, an immoral man; an immoral deed.

Syn.
 -- Wicked; sinful; criminal; vicious; unjust; dishonest; depraved;
impure; unchaste; profligate; dissolute; abandoned; licentious; lewd;
obscene.

IMMORALITY
Im`mo*ral"i*ty, n.; pl. Immoralities. Etym: [Cf. F. immoralité.]

1. The state or quality of being immoral; vice.
The root of all immorality. Sir W. Temple.

2. An immoral act or practice.
Luxury and sloth and then a great drove of heresies and immoralities
broke loose among them. Milton.

IMMORALLY
Im*mor"al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an immoral manner; wickedly.

IMMORIGEROUS
Im`mo*rig"er*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + morigerous.]

Defn: Rude; uncivil; disobedient. [Obs.] -- Im`mo*rig"er*ous*ness, n.
[Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

IMMORTAL
Im*mor"tal, a. Etym: [L. immortalis; pref. im- not + mortalis mortal:
cf. F. immortel. See Mortal, and cf. Immortelle.]

1. Not mortal; exempt from liability to die; undying; imperishable;
lasting forever; having unlimited, or eternal, existance.
Unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible. 1 Tim. i. 17.
For my soul, what can it do to that, Being a thing immortal as itself
Shak.

2. Connected with, or pertaining to immortability.
I have immortal longings in me. Shak.

3. Destined to live in all ages of this world; abiding; exempt from
oblivion; imperishable; as, immortal fame.
One of the few, immortal names, That were not born yo die. Halleck.

4. Great; excessive; grievous. [Obs.] Hayward. Immortal flowers,
imortelles; everlastings.

Syn.
 -- Eternal; everlasting; never-ending; ceaseless; perpetual;
continual; enduring; endless; imperishable; incorruptible; deathless;
undying.

IMMORTAL
Im*mor"tal, n.

Defn: One who will never cease to be; one exempt from death, decay,
or annihilation. Bunyan.

IMMORTALIST
Im*mor"tal*ist, n.

Defn: One who holds the doctrine of the immortality of the soul. [R.]
Jer. Taylor.

IMMORTALITY
Im`mor*tal"i*ty, n.; pl. Immortalities. Etym: [L. immortalitas: cf.
F. immortalité.]

1. The quality or state of being immortal; exemption from death and
annihilation; unending existance; as, the immortality of the soul.
This mortal must put on immortality. 1 Cor. xv. 53.

2. Exemption from oblivion; perpetuity; as, the immortality of fame.

IMMORTALIZATION
Im*mor`tal*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of immortalizing, or state of being immortalized.

IMMORTALIZE
Im*mor"tal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Immortalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Immortalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. immortaliser.]

1. To render immortal; to cause to live or exist forever. S. Clarke.

2. To exempt from oblivion; to perpetuate in fame.
Alexander had no Homer to immortalize his quilty name. T. Dawes.

IMMORTALIZE
Im*mor"tal*ize, v. i.

Defn: To become immortal. [R.]

IMMORTALLY
Im*mor"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: In an immortal manner.

IMMORTELLE
Im`mor*telle", n.; pl. Immortelles. Etym: [F. See Immortal.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant with a conspicuous, dry, unwithering involucre, as the
species of Antennaria, Helichrysum, Gomphrena, etc. See Everlasting.

IMMORTIFICATION
Im*mor`ti*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Failure to mortify the passions. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

IMMOVABILITY
Im*mov"a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being immovable; fixedness;
steadfastness; as, immovability of a heavy body; immovability of
purpose.

IMMOVABLE
Im*mov"a*ble, a.

1. Incapable of being moved; firmly fixed; fast; -- used of material
things; as, an immovable foundatin.
Immovable, infixed, and frozen round. Milton.

2. Steadfast; fixed; unalterable; unchangeable; -- used of the mind
or will; as, an immovable purpose, or a man who remain immovable.

3. Not capable of being affected or moved in feeling or by sympathy;
unimpressible; impassive. Dryden.

4. (Law.)

Defn: Not liable to be removed; permanent in place or tenure; fixed;
as, an immovable estate. See Immovable, n. Blackstone. Immovable
apparatus (Med.), an appliance, like the plaster of paris bandage,
which keeps fractured parts firmly in place.
 -- Immovable feasts (Eccl.), feasts which occur on a certain day of
the year and do not depend on the date of Easter; as, Christmas, the
Epiphany, etc.

IMMOVABLE
Im*mov"a*ble, n.

1. That which can not be moved.

2. pl. (Civil Law)

Defn: Lands and things adherent thereto by nature, as trees; by the
hand of man, as buildings and their accessories; by their
destination, as seeds, plants, manure, etc.; or by the objects to
which they are applied, as servitudes. Ayliffe. Bouvier.

IMMOVABLENESS
Im*mov"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being immovable.

IMMOVABLY
Im*mov"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an immovable manner.

IMMUND
Im*mund", a. Etym: [L.immundus; pref. im- not + mundus clean.]

Defn: Unclean. [R.] Burton.

IMMUNDICITY
Im`mun*dic"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. immondicité, L. immunditia,
immundities.]

Defn: Uncleanness; filthness. [R.] W. Montagu.

IMMUNE
Im*mune", a. Etym: [L. immunis. See Immunity.]

Defn: Exempt; protected by inoculation.
 -- Im*mu"nize, v. t.

IMMUNITY
Im*mu"ni*ty, n.; pl. Immunities. Etym: [L. immunitas, fr. immunis
free from a public service; pref. im- not + munis complaisant,
obliging, cf. munus service, duty: cf. F. immunité. See Common, and
cf. Mean, a.]

1. Freedom or exemption from any charge, duty, obligation, office,
tax, imposition, penalty, or service; a particular privilege; as, the
immunities of the free cities of Germany; the immunities of the
clergy.

2. Freedom; exemption; as, immunity from error.

IMMURE
Im*mure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Immured; p. pr. & vb. n. Immuring.]
Etym: [Pref. im- in + mure: cf. F. emmurer.]

1. To wall around; to surround with walls. [Obs.] Sandys.

2. To inclose whithin walls, or as within walls; hence, to shut up;
to imprison; to incarcerate.
Those tender babes Whom envy hath immured within your walls. Shak.
This huge convex of fire, Outrageous to devour, immures us round.
Milton.

IMMURE
Im*mure", n.

Defn: A wall; an inclosure. [Obs.] Shak.

IMMUREMENT
Im*mure"ment, n.

Defn: The act iif immuring, or the state of being immured;
imprsonment.

IMMUSICAL
Im*mu"sic*al, a.

Defn: Inharmonious; unmusical; discordant. Bacon.

IMMUTABILITY
Im*mu`ta*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. immutabilitas: cf. F. immutabilité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being immutable; immutableness. Heb.
vi. 17.

IMMUTABLE
Im*mu"ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. immutabilis; pref. im- not + mutabilis
mutable. See Mutable.]

Defn: Not mutable; not capable or susceptible of change;
unchangeable; unalterable.
That by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to
lie, we might have a strong consolation. Heb. vi. 18.
Immutable, immortal, infinite, Eternal King. Milton.
-- Im*mu"ta*ble*ness, n.
 -- Im*mu"ta*bly, adv.

IMMUTATE
Im*mu"tate, a. Etym: [L. immutatus, p. p. of immature.]

Defn: Unchanged. [Obs.]

IMMUTATION
Im"mu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. immutatio, from immutare, immutatum, to
change. See Immute.]

Defn: Change; alteration; mutation. [R.] Dr. H. More.

IMMUTE
Im*mute", v. t. Etym: [L. immutare, immutatum; perf. im- in + mutare
to change : cf. OF. immuter.]

Defn: To change or alter. [Obs.] J. Salkeld.

IMP
Imp, n. Etym: [OE. imp a graft, AS. impa; akin to Dan. ympe, Sw. ymp,
prob. fr. LL. impotus, Gr. be. See 1st In-, Be.]

1. A shoot; a scion; a bud; a slip; a graft. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. An offspring; progeny; child; scion. [Obs.]
The tender imp was weaned. Fairfax.

3. A young or inferior devil; a little, malignant spirit; a puny
demon; a contemptible evil worker.
To mingle in the clamorous fray Of squabbling imps. Beattie.

4. Something added to, or united with, another, to lengthen it out or
repair it, -- as, an addition to a beehive; a feather inserted in a
broken wing of a bird; a length of twisted hair in a fishing line.
[Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

IMP
Imp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imped; p. pr. & vb. n. Imping.] Etym: [AS.
impian to imp, ingraft, plant; akin to Dan. ympe, Sw. ympa, OHG.
impfon, impiton, G. impfen. See Imp, n.]

1. To graft; to insert as a scion. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

2. (Falconry)

Defn: To graft with new feathers, as a wing; to splice a broken
feather. Hence, Fig.: To repair; to extend; to increase; to
strengthen to equip. [Archaic]
Imp out our drooping country's broken wing. Shak.
Who lazily imp their wings with other men's plumes. Fuller. Here no
frail Muse shall imp her crippled wing. Holmes.
Help, ye tart satirists, to imp my rage With all the scorpions that
should whip this age. Cleveland.

IMPACABLE
Im*pa"ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. pref. im- not + pacare to quiet. See
Pacate.]

Defn: Not to be appeased or quieted. [Obs.] Spenser.
 -- Im*pa"ca*bly, adv.

IMPACKMENT
Im*pack"ment, n. Etym: [Pref. im- in + pack.]

Defn: The state of being closely surrounded, crowded, or pressed, as
by ice. [R.] Kane.

IMPACT
Im*pact", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impacted; p. pr. & vb. n. Impacting.]
Etym: [L. impactus, p. p. of impingere to push, strike against. See
Impinge.]

Defn: To drive close; to press firmly together: to wedge into a
place. Woodward.

IMPACT
Im"pact, n.

1. Contact or impression by touch; collision; forcible contact; force
communicated.
The quarrel, by that impact driven. Southey.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: The single instantaneous stroke of a body in motion against
another either in motion or at rest.

IMPACTED
Im*pact"ed, a.

Defn: Driven together or close. Impacted fracture (Surg.), a fracture
in which the fragments are driven into each other so as to be
immovable.

IMPACTION
Im*pac"tion, n. Etym: [L. impactio a striking : cf. F. impaction.]

1. (Surg.)

Defn: The driving of one fragment of bone into another so that the
fragments are not movable upon each other; as, impaction of the skull
or of the hip.

2. An immovable packing; (Med.), a lodgment of something in a strait
or passage of the body; as, impaction of the fetal head in the strait
of the pelvis; impaction of food or feces in the intestines of man or
beast.

IMPAINT
Im*paint", v. t.

Defn: To paint; to adorn with colors. [R.] "To impaint his cause."
Shak.

IMPAIR
Im*pair", v. t. [imp & p. p. Impaired; p. pr. & vb. n. Impairing.]
[Written also empair.] Etym: [OE. empeiren, enpeiren, OF. empeirier,
empirier, F. empirer, LL. impejorare; L. pref. im- in + pejorare to
make worse, fr. pejor worse. Cf. Appair.]

Defn: To make worse; to diminish in quantity, value, excellence, or
strength; to deteriorate; as, to impair health, character, the mind,
value.
Time sensibly all things impairs. Roscommon.
In years he seemed, but not impaired by years. Pope.

Syn.
 -- To diminish; decrease; injure; weaken; enfeeble; debilitate;
reduce; debase; deteriorate.

IMPAIR
Im*pair", v. t.

Defn: To grow worse; to deteriorate. Milton.

IMPAIR
Im"pair, a. Etym: [F. impair uneven, L. impar; im- not + par equal.]

Defn: Not fit or appropriate. [Obs.]

IMPAIR
Im*pair", n.

Defn: Diminution; injury. [Obs.]

IMPAIRER
Im*pair"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, impairs.

IMPAIRMENT
Im*pair"ment, n. Etym: [OE. enpeirement, OF. empirement.]

Defn: The state of being impaired; injury. "The impairment of my
health." Dryden.

IMPALATABLE
Im*pal"a*ta*ble, a.

Defn: Unpalatable. [R.]

IMPALE
Im*pale", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impaled; p. pr. & vb. n. Impaling.]
Etym: [See 2d Empale.]

1. To pierce with a pale; to put to death by fixing on a sharp stake.
See Empale.
Then with what life remains, impaled, and left To writhe at leisure
round the bloody stake. Addison.

2. To inclose, as with pales or stakes; to surround.
Impale him with your weapons round about. Shak.
Impenetrable, impaled with circling fire. Milton.

3. (Her.)

Defn: To join, as two coats of arms on one shield, palewise; hence,
to join in honorable mention.
Ordered the admission of St. Patrick to the same to be matched and
impaled with the blessed Virgin in the honor thereof. Fuller.

IMPALEMENT
Im*pale"ment, n.

1. The act of impaling, or the state of being impaled. Byron.

2. An inclosing by stakes or pales, or the space so inclosed. H.
Brooke.

3. That which hedges in; inclosure. [R.] Milton.

4. (Her.)

Defn: The division of a shield palewise, or by a vertical line, esp.
for the purpose of putting side by side the arms of husband and wife.
See Impale, 3.

IMPALLA
Im*pal"la, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pallah deer of South Africa.

IMPALLID
Im*pal"lid, v. t.

Defn: To make pallid; to blanch. [Obs.] Feltham.

IMPALM
Im*palm", v. t.

Defn: To grasp with or hold in the hand. [R.] J. Barlow.

IMPALPABILITY
Im*pal`pa*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. impalpabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being impalpable. Jortin.

IMPALPABLE
Im*pal"pa*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + palpable: cf. F.
impalpable.]

1. Not palpable; that cannot be felt; extremely fine, so that no grit
can be perceived by touch. "Impalpable powder." Boyle.

2. Not material; intangible; incorporeal. "Impalpable, void, and
bodiless." Holland.

3. Not apprehensible, or readily apprehensible, by the mind; unreal;
as, impalpable distinctions.

IMPALPABLY
Im*pal"pa*bly, adv.

Defn: In an impalpable manner.

IMPALSY
Im*pal"sy, v. t.

Defn: To palsy; to paralyze; to deaden. [R.]

IMPANATE
Im*pa"nate, a. Etym: [LL. impanatus, p. p. of impanare to impanate;
L. pref. im- in + panis bread.]

Defn: Embodied in bread, esp. in the bread of the eucharist. [Obs.]
Cranmer.

IMPANATE
Im*pa"nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impanated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impanating.]

Defn: To embody in bread, esp. in the bread of the eucharist. [Obs.]

IMPANATION
Im"pa*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. impanation. See Impanate, a.] (Eccl.)

Defn: Embodiment in bread; the supposed real presence and union of
Christ's material body and blood with the substance of the elements
of the eucharist without a change in their nature; -- distinguished
from transubstantiation, which supposes a miraculous change of the
substance of the elements. It is akin to consubstantiation.

IMPANATOR
Im*pa"na*tor, n. Etym: [LL.] (Eccl.)

Defn: One who holds the doctrine of impanation.

IMPANEL
Im*pan"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impaneled or Impanelled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Impaneling or Impanelling.] Etym: [Pref. im- in + panel. Cf.
Empanel.] [Written also empanel.]

Defn: To enter in a list, or on a piece of parchment, called a panel;
to form or enroll, as a list of jurors in a court of justice.
Blackstone.

IMPANELMENT
Im*pan"el*ment, n.

Defn: The act or process of impaneling, or the state of being
impaneled.

IMPARADISE
Im*par"a*dise, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imparadised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Imparadising.] Etym: [Pref. im- + paradise: cf. F. emparadiser.]

Defn: To put in a state like paradise; to make supremely happy.
"Imparadised in one another's arms." Milton.

IMPARALLELED
Im*par"al*leled, a.

Defn: Unparalleled. [Obs.]

IMPARDONABLE
Im*par"don*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. impardonnable.]

Defn: Unpardonable. [Obs.] South.

IMPARIDIGITATE
Im*par`i*dig"i*tate, a. Etym: [L. impar unequal + digitus finger.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Having an odd number of fingers or toes, either one, three, or
five, as in the horse, tapir, rhinoceros, etc.

IMPARIPINNATE
Im*par"i*pin"nate, a. Etym: [L. impar unequal + E. pinnate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Pinnate with a single terminal leaflet.

IMPARISYLLABIC
Im*par"i*syl*lab"ic, a. Etym: [L. impar unequal + E. syllabic: cf. F.
imparisyllabique.] (Gram.)

Defn: Not consisting of an equal number of syllables; as, an
imparisyllabic noun, one which has not the same number of syllables
in all the cases; as, lapis, lapidis; mens, mentis.

IMPARITY
Im*par"i*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. im- + parity: cf. F. imparité.]

1. Inequality; disparity; disproportion; difference of degree, rank,
excellence, number, etc. Milton.

2. Lack of comparison, correspondence, or suitableness; incongruity.
In this region of merely intellectual notion we are at once
encountered by the imparity of the object and the faculty employed
upon it. I. Taylor.

3. Indivisibility into equal parts; oddness. [R.]

IMPARK
Im*park", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imparked, p. pr. & vb. n. Imparking.]
Etym: [Cf. Empark.]

Defn: To inclose for a park; to sever from a common; hence, to
inclose or shut up.
They . . . impark them [the sheep] within hurdles. Holland.

IMPARL
Im*parl", v. i. Etym: [OF. emparler; pref. em- (L. in) + parler to
speak. See In, prep., and Parley.]

1. To hold discourse; to parley. [Obs.] Sir. T. North.

2. (Law)

Defn: To have time before pleading; to have delay for mutual
adjustment. Blackstone.

IMPARLANCE
Im*par"lance, n. Etym: [Cf. Emparlance, Parlance.] [Written also
inparliance.]

1. Mutual discourse; conference. [Obs.]

2. (Law)
(a) Time given to a party to talk or converse with his opponent,
originally with the object of effecting, if possible, an amicable
adjustment of the suit. The actual object, however, has long been
merely to obtain further time to plead, answer to the allegations of
the opposite party.
(b) Hence, the delay or continuance of a suit.

Note: Imparlance and continuance by imparlance have been abolished in
England. Wharton (Law Dict. ).

IMPARSONEE
Im*par`son*ee", a. Etym: [OF. empersone. See 1st In-, and Parson.]
(Eng. Eccl. Law)

Defn: Presented, instituted, and inducted into a rectory, and in full
possession.
 -- n.

Defn: A clergyman so inducted.

IMPART
Im*part", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imparted; p. pr. & vb. n. Imparting.]
Etym: [OF. impartir, empartir, L. impartire, impertire; pref. im- in
+ partire to part, divide, fr. pars, partis, part, share. See Part,
n. ]

1. To bestow a share or portion of; to give, grant, or communicate;
to allow another to partake in; as, to impart food to the poor; the
sun imparts warmth.
Well may he then to you his cares impart. Dryden.

2. To obtain a share of; to partake of. [R.] Munday.

3. To communicate the knowledge of; to make known; to show by words
or tokens; to tell; to disclose.
Gentle lady, When I did first impart my love to you. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To share; yield; confer; convey; grant; give; reveal; disclose;
discover; divulge. See Communicate.

IMPART
Im*part", v. i.

1. To give a part or share.
He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none. Luke
iii. 11.

2. To hold a conference or consultation. Blackstone.

IMPARTANCE
Im*part"ance, n.

Defn: Impartation.

IMPARTATION
Im`par*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of imparting, or the thing imparted.
The necessity of this impartation. I. Taylor.

IMPARTER
Im*part"er, n.

Defn: One who imparts.

IMPARTIAL
Im*par"tial, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + partial: cf. F. impartial.]

Defn: Not partial; not favoring one more than another; treating all
alike; unprejudiced; unbiased; disinterested; equitable; fair; just.
Shak.
Jove is impartial, and to both the same. Dryden.
A comprehensive and impartial view. Macaulay.

IMPARTIALIST
Im*par"tial*ist, n.

Defn: One who is impartial. [R.] Boyle.

IMPARTIALITY
Im*par`ti*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. impartialité.]

Defn: The quality of being impartial; freedom from bias or
favoritism; disinterestedness; equitableness; fairness; as,
impartiality of judgment, of treatment, etc.
Impartiality strips the mind of prejudice and passion. South.

IMPARTIALLY
Im*par"tial*ly, a.

Defn: In an impartial manner.

IMPARTIALNESS
Im*par"tial*ness, n.

Defn: Impartiality. Sir W. Temple.

IMPARTIBILITY
Im*part`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being impartible; communicability. Blackstone.

IMPARTIBILITY
Im*part`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. impartibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being incapable of division into parts;
indivisibility. Holland.

IMPARTIBLE
Im*part"i*ble, a. Etym: [From Impart.]

Defn: Capable of being imparted or communicated.

IMPARTIBLE
Im*part"i*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + partible: cf. F.
impartible.]

Defn: Not partible; not subject to partition; indivisible; as, an
impartible estate. Blackatone.

IMPARTMENT
Im*part"ment, n.

Defn: The act of imparting, or that which is imparted, communicated,
or disclosed. [R.]
It beckons you to go away with it, As if it some impartment did
desire To you alone. Shak.

IMPASSABLE
Im*pass"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. Unpassable.]

Defn: Incapable of being passed; not admitting a passage; as, an
impassable road, mountain, or gulf. Milton.
 -- Im*pass"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Im*pass"a*bly, adv.

IMPASSE
Im`passe" (aN`päs"; E. im*pas"), n. [F.]

Defn: An impassable road or way; a  blind alley; cul-de-sac; fig., a
position or predicament affording no escape.

The issue from the present impasse will, in all probability, proceed
from below, not from above.
Arnold White.

IMPASSIBILITY
Im*pas`si*bil"i*ty, a. Etym: [L. impassibilitas: cf. F.
impassibilité.]

Defn: The quality or condition of being impassible; insusceptibility
of injury from external things.

IMPASSIBLE
Im*pas"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. impassibilis; pref. im- not + passibilis
passable: cf. F. impassible. See Passible.]

Defn: Incapable of suffering; inaccessible to harm or pain; not to be
touched or moved to passion or sympathy; unfeeling, or not showing
feeling; without sensation. "Impassible to the critic." Sir W. Scott.
Secure of death, I should contemn thy dart Though naked, and
impassible depart. Dryden.

IMPASSIBLENESS
Im*pas"si*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Impassibility.

IMPASSION
Im*pas"sion, v. t. Etym: [Pref. im- in + passion. Cf. Empassion,
Impassionate, v.]

Defn: To move or affect strongly with passion. [Archaic] Chapman.

IMPASSIONABLE
Im*pas"sion*a*ble, a.

Defn: Excitable; susceptible of strong emotion.

IMPASSIONATE
Im*pas"sion*ate, a.

Defn: Strongly affected. Smart.

IMPASSIONATE
Im*pas"sion*ate, v. t.

Defn: To affect powerfully; to arouse the passions of. Dr. H. More.

IMPASSIONATE
Im*pas"sion*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + passionate.]

Defn: Without passion or feeling. Burton.

IMPASSIONED
Im*pas"sioned, p. p. & a.

Defn: Actuated or characterized by passion or zeal; showing warmth of
feeling; ardent; animated; excited; as, an impassioned orator or
discourse.

IMPASSIVE
Im*pas"sive, a.

Defn: Not susceptible of pain or suffering; apathetic; impassible;
unmoved.
Impassive as the marble in the quarry. De Quincey.
On the impassive ice the lightings play. Pope.
-- Im*pas"sive*ly, adv.
 -- Im*pas"sive*ness, n.

IMPASSIVITY
Im`pas*siv"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being insusceptible of feeling, pain, or
suffering; impassiveness.

IMPASTATION
Im`pas*ta"tion, n. Etym: [F. See Impaste.]

Defn: The act of making into paste; that which is formed into a paste
or mixture; specifically, a combination of different substances by
means of cements.

IMPASTE
Im*paste", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impasted; p. pr. & vb. n. Impasting.]
Etym: [Pref. im- in + paste: cf. It. impastare, OF. empaster, F.
empâter. See 1st In- and Paste.]

1. To knead; to make into paste; to concrete. "Blood . . . baked and
impasted." Shak.

2. (Paint.)

Defn: To lay color on canvas by uniting them skillfully together.
[R.] Cf. Impasto.

IMPASTING
Im*past"ing, (Paint.)

Defn: The laying on of colors to produce impasto.

IMPASTO
Im*pas"to, n. Etym: [It. See Impaste.] (Paint.)

Defn: The thickness of the layer or body of pigment applied by the
painter to his canvas with especial reference to the juxtaposition of
different colors and tints in forming a harmonious whole. Fairholt.

IMPASTURE
Im*pas"ture, v. t.

Defn: To place in a pasture; to foster. [R.] T. Adams.

IMPATIBLE
Im*pat"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. impatibilis; pref. im- not + patibilis
supportable. See Patible.]

1. Not capable of being borne; impassible.
A spirit, and so impatible of material fire. Fuller.

IMPATIENCE
Im*pa"tience n. Etym: [OE. impacience, F. impatience, fr. L.
impatientia.]

Defn: The quality of being impatient; want of endurance of pain,
suffering, opposition, or delay; eagerness for change, or for
something expected; restlessness; chafing of spirit; fretfulness;
passion; as, the impatience of a child or an invalid.
I then, . . . Out of my grief and my impatience, Answered
neglectingly. Shak.
With huge impatience he inly swelt More for great sorrow that he
could not pass, Than for the burning torment which he felt. Spenser.

IMPATIENCY
Im*pa"tien*cy, n.

Defn: Impatience. [Obs.]

IMPATIENS
Im*pa"ti*ens, n. Etym: [L., impatient.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, several species of which have very beautiful
flowers; -- so called because the elastic capsules burst when
touched, and scatter the seeds with considerable force. Called also
touch-me-not, jewelweed, and snapweed. I. Balsamina (sometimes called
lady's slipper) is the common garden balsam.

IMPATIENT
Im*pa"tient, a. Etym: [OE. impacient, F. impatient, fr. L. impatiens;
pref. im- not + patiens patient. See Patient.]

1. Not patient; not bearing with composure; intolerant; uneasy;
fretful; restless, because of pain, delay, or opposition; eager for
change, or for something expected; hasty; passionate; -- often
followed by at, for, of, and under.
A violent, sudden, and impatient necessity. Jer. Taylor.
Fame, impatient of extremes, decays Not more by envy than excess of
praise. Pope.
The impatient man will not give himself time to be informed of the
matter that lies before him. Addison.
Dryden was poor and impatient of poverty. Macaulay.

2. Not to be borne; unendurable. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. Prompted by, or exhibiting, impatience; as, impatient speeches or
replies. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Restless; uneasy; changeable; hot; eager; fretful; intolerant;
passionate.

IMPATIENT
Im*pa"tient, n.

Defn: One who is impatient. [R.]

IMPATIENTLY
Im*pa"tient*ly, adv.

Defn: In an impatient manner.

IMPATRONIZATION
Im*pat`ron*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: Absolute seignory or possession; the act of investing with such
possession. [R.] Cotgrave.

IMPATRONIZE
Im*pat"ron*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impatronized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impatronizing.]

Defn: To make lord or master; as, to impatronize one's self of a
seigniory. [R.] Bacon.

IMPAVE
Im*pave", v. t.

Defn: To pave. [Poetic]
Impaved with rude fidelity Of art mosaic. Wordsworth.

IMPAVID
Im*pav"id, a. Etym: [L. impavidus. See In- not, and Pavid.]

Defn: Fearless.
 -- Im*pav"id*ly, adv.

IMPAWN
Im*pawn", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impawned; p. pr. & vb. n. Impawning.]
Etym: [Pref. im- + pawn: cf. Empawn.]

Defn: To put in pawn; to pledge. Shak.

IMPEACH
Im*peach", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impeached; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impeaching.] Etym: [OE. empeechier to prevent, hinder, bar, F.
empêcher, L. impedicare to entangle; pref. im- in + pedica fetter,
fr. pes, pedis, foot. See Foot, and Appeach, Dispatch, Impede.]

1. To hinder; to impede; to prevent. [Obs.]
These ungracious practices of his sons did impeach his journey to the
Holy Land. Sir J. Davies.
A defluxion on my throat impeached my utterance. Howell.

2. To charge with a crime or misdemeanor; to accuse; especially to
charge (a public officer), before a competent tribunal, with
misbehavior in office; to cite before a tribunal for judgement of
official misconduct; to arraign; as, to impeach a judge. See
Impeachment.

3. Hence, to charge with impropriety; to dishonor; to bring discredit
on; to call in question; as, to impeach one's motives or conduct.
And doth impeach the freedom of the state. Shak.

4. (Law)

Defn: To challenge or discredit the credibility of, as of a witness,
or the validity of, as of commercial paper.

Note: When used in law with reference to a witness, the term
signifies, to discredit, to show or prove unreliable or unworthy of
belief; when used in reference to the credit of witness, the term
denotes, to impair, to lessen, to disparage, to destroy. The credit
of a witness may be impeached by showing that he has made statements
out of court contradictory to what he swears at the trial, or by
showing that his reputation for veracity is bad, etc.

Syn.
 -- To accuse; arraign; censure; criminate; indict; impair;
disparage; discredit. See Accuse.

IMPEACH
Im*peach", n.

Defn: Hindrance; impeachment. [Obs.]

IMPEACHABLE
Im*peach"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be impeached; liable to impeachment; chargeable with a
crime.
Owners of lands in fee simple are not impeachable for waste. Z.
Swift.

IMPEACHER
Im*peach"er, n.

Defn: One who impeaches.

IMPEACHMENT
Im*peach"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. empêchement.]

Defn: The act of impeaching, or the state of being impeached; as:
(a) Hindrance; impediment; obstruction. [Obs.]
Willing to march on to Calais, Without impeachment. Shak.

(b) A calling to account; arraignment; especially, of a public
officer for maladministration.
The consequence of Coriolanus' impeachment had like to have been
fatal to their state. Swift.

(c) A calling in question as to purity of motives, rectitude of
conduct, credibility, etc.; accusation; reproach; as, an impeachment
of motives. Shak.

Note: In England, it is the privilege or right of the House of
Commons to impeach, and the right of the House of Lords to try and
determine impeachments. In the United States, it is the right of the
House of Representatives to impeach, and of the Senate to try and
determine impeachments. Articles of impeachment. See under Article.
 -- Impeachment of waste (Law), restraint from, or accountability
for, injury; also, a suit for damages for injury. Abbott.

IMPEARL
Im*pearl", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impearled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impearling.] Etym: [Pref. im- in + pearl: cf. F. emperler.]

1. To form into pearls, or into that which resembles pearls. [Poetic]
Dewdrops which the sun Impearls on every leaf and every flower.
Milton.

2. To decorate as with pearls or with anything resembling pearls.
[Poetic]
With morning dews impearled. Mrs. Browning.
The dews of the morning impearl every thorn. R. Digby.

IMPECCABILITY
Im*pec`ca*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. impeccabilité.]

Defn: the quality of being impeccable; exemption from sin, error, or
offense.
Infallibility and impeccability are two of his attributes. Pope.

IMPECCABLE
Im*pec"ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. impeccabilis; pref. im- not + peccare to
err, to sin: cf. F. impeccable.]

Defn: Not liable to sin; exempt from the possibility of doing wrong.
 -- n.

Defn: One who is impeccable; esp., one of a sect of Gnostic heretics
who asserted their sinlessness.
God is infallible, impeccable, and absolutely perfect. P. Skelton.

IMPECCANCY
Im*pec"can*cy, n.

Defn: Sinlessness. Bp. Hall.

IMPECCANT
Im*pec"cant, a.

Defn: Sinless; impeccable. Byron.

IMPECUNIOSITY
Im`pe*cu`ni*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being impecunious. Thackeray. Sir W. Scott.

IMPECUNIOUS
Im"pe*cu"ni*ous, a. Etym: [L. im- not + pecunia money: cf. F.
impécunieux.]

Defn: Not having money; habitually without money; poor.
An impecunious creature. B. Jonson.

IMPEDANCE
Im*ped"ance, n.  [Impede + -ance.] (Elec.)

Defn: The apparent resistance in an electric circuit to the flow of
an alternating current, analogous to the actual electrical resistance
to a direct current, being the ratio of electromotive force to the
current. It is equal to R2 + X2, where R = ohmic resistance, X =
reactance. For an inductive circuit, X = 2pfL, where f = frequency
and L = self-inductance; for a circuit with capacity X = 1 ÷ 2pfC,
where C = capacity.

IMPEDE
Im*pede", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impeded; p. pr. & vb. n. Impeding.]
Etym: [L. impedire, lit., to entangle the feet; pref. im- in + pes,
pedis, foot. See Foot, and cf. Impeach.]

Defn: To hinder; to stop in progress; to obstruct; as, to impede the
advance of troops.
Whatever hinders or impedes The action of the nobler will. Logfellow.

IMPEDIBLE
Im*ped"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being impeded or hindered. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

IMPEDIMENT
Im*ped"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. impedimentum: cf. F. impediment.]

Defn: That which impedes or hinders progress, motion, activity, or
effect.
Thus far into the bowels of the land Have we marched on without
impediment. Shak.
Impediment in speech, a defect which prevents distinct utterance.

Syn.
 -- Hindrance; obstruction; obstacle; difficulty; incumbrance.
 -- Impediment, Obstacle, Difficulty, Hindrance. An impediment
literally strikes against our feet, checking our progress, and we
remove it. An obstacle rises before us in our path, and we surmount
or remove it. A difficulty sets before us something hard to be done,
and we encounter it and overcome it. A hindrance holds us back for a
time, but we break away from it.
The eloquence of Demosthenes was to Philip of Macedon, a difficulty
to be met with his best recources, ant obstacle to his own ambition,
and an impedimen in his political career. C. J. Smith.

IMPEDIMENT
Im*ped"i*ment, v. t.

Defn: To impede. [R.] Bp. Reynolds.

IMPEDIMENTA
Im*ped`i*men"ta, n. pl. [L. See Impediment, Impede.]

Defn: Things which impede or hinder progress; incumbrances; baggage;
specif. (Mil.),

Defn: the supply trains which must accompany an army.

On the plains they will have horses dragging travoises, dogs with
travoises, women and children loaded with impedimenta.
Julian Ralph.

IMPEDIMENTAL
Im*ped`i*men"tal, a.

Defn: Of the nature of an impediment; hindering; obstructing;
impeditive.
Things so impediental to success. G. H. Lewes.

IMPEDITE
Im"pe*dite, a. Etym: [L. impeditus, p. p. See Impede.]

Defn: Hindered; obstructed. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

IMPEDITE
Im"pe*dite, v. t.

Defn: To impede. [Obs.] Boyle.

IMPEDITION
Im"pe*di"tion, n. Etym: [L. impeditio.]

Defn: A hindering; a hindrance. [Obs.] Baxier.

IMPEDITIVE
Im*ped"i*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. impéditif.]

Defn: Causing hindrance; impeding. "Cumbersome, and impeditive of
motion." Bp. Hall.

IMPEL
Im*pel", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impelled; p. pr. & vb. n. Impelling.]
Etym: [L. impellere; pref. im- in + pellere, pulsum, to drive. See
Pulse a beat, and cf. Impulse.]

Defn: To drive or urge forward or on; to press on; to incite to
action or motion in any way.
The surge impelled me on a craggy coast. Pope.

Syn.
 -- To instigate; incite; induce; influence; force; drive; urge;
actuate; move.

IMPELLENT
Im*pel"lent, a. Etym: [L. impellens, p. pr. of impellere.]

Defn: Having the quality of impelling.

IMPELLENT
Im*pel"lent, n.

Defn: An impelling power or force. Glanvill.

IMPELLER
Im*pel"ler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, impels.

IMPEN
Im*pen", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impenned and Impent (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impenning.]

Defn: To shut up or inclose, as in a pen. Feltham.

IMPEND
Im*pend", v. t. Etym: [L. impend; pref. im- in + pend to weigh out,
pay.]

Defn: To pay. [Obs.] Fabyan.

IMPEND
Im*pend", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Impended; p. pr. & vb. n. Impending.]
Etym: [L. impendere; pref. im- in + pendere to hang. See Pendant.]

Defn: To hang over; to be suspended above; to threaten frome near at
hand; to menace; to be imminent. See Imminent.
Destruction sure o'er all your heads impends. Pope.

IMPENDENCE; IMPENDENCY
Im*pend"ence, Im*pend"en*cy, n.

Defn: The state of impending; also, that which impends. "Impendence
of volcanic cloud." Ruskin.

IMPENDENT
Im*pend"ent, a. Etym: [L. impendens, p. pr. of impendere.]

Defn: Impending; threatening.
Impendent horrors, threatening hideous fall. Milton.

IMPENDING
Im*pend"ing, a.

Defn: Hanging over; overhanging; suspended so as to menace; imminet;
threatening.
An impending brow. Hawthorne.
And nodding Ilion waits th' impending fall. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Imminent; threatening. See Imminent.

IMPENETRABILITY
Im*pen`e*tra*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. impénétrabilité.]

1. Quality of being impenetrable.

2. (Physics)

Defn: That property in virtue of which two portions of matter can not
at the same time occupy the same portion of space.

3. Insusceptibility of intellectual or emotional impression;
obtuseness; stupidity; coldness.

IMPENETRABLE
Im*pen"e*tra*ble, a. Etym: [L. impenetrabilis; pref. im- not +
penetrabilis penetrable: cf. F. impénétrable.]

1. Incapable of being penetrated or pierced; not admitting the
passage of other bodies; not to be entered; impervious; as, an
impenetrable shield.
Highest woods impenetrable To star or sunlight. Milton.

2. (Physics)

Defn: Having the property of preventing any other substance from
occupying the same space at the same time.

3. Inaccessible, as to knowledge, reason, sympathy, etc.;
unimpressible; not to be moved by arguments or motives; as, an
impenetrable mind, or heart.
They will be credulous in all affairs of life, but impenetrable by a
sermon of the gospel. Jer. Taylor.

IMPENETRABLENESS
Im*pen"e*tra*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being impenetrable; impenetrability.

IMPENETRABLY
Im*pen"e*tra*bly, adv.

Defn: In an impenetrable manner or state; imperviously. "Impenetrably
armed." Milton. "Impenetrably dull." Pope.

IMPENITENCE
Im*pen"i*tence, n. Etym: [L. impenitentia: cf. F. impénitence.]

Defn: The condition of being impenitent; failure or refusal to
repent; hardness of heart.
He will advance from one degree of wickedness and impenitence to
another. Rogers.

IMPENITENCY
Im*pen"i*ten*cy, n.

Defn: Impenitence. Milton.

IMPENITENT
Im*pen"i*tent, a. Etym: [L. impaenitens; pref. im- not + paenitens
penitens: cf. F. impénitent. See Penitent.]

Defn: Not penitent; not repenting of sin; not contrite; of a hard
heart. "They . . . died impenitent." Milton. "A careless and
impenitent heart." Bp. Hall.

IMPENITENT
Im*pen"i*tent, n.

Defn: One who is not penitent. [R.]

IMPENITENTLY
Im*pen"i*tent*ly, adv.

Defn: Without repentance.

IMPENNATE
Im*pen"nate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Characterized by short wings covered with feathers resembling
scales, as the penguins.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Impennes.

IMPENNES
Im*pen"nes, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. pref. im- not + penna feather.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of birds, including only the penguins, in which the
wings are without quills, and not suited for flight.

IMPENNOUS
Im*pen"nous a. Etym: [L. pref. im- not + penna wing.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having no wings, as some insects.

IMPEOPLE
Im*peo"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impeopled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impeopling.] Etym: [See Empeople.]

Defn: To people; to give a population to. [Obs.]
Thou hast helped to impeople hell. Beaumont.

IMPERANT
Im"pe*rant, a. Etym: [L. imperans, p. pr. of imperare to command.]

Defn: Commanding. [R.] Baxter.

IMPERATE
Im"pe*rate, a. Etym: [L. imperatus, p. p. of imperare to command.]

Defn: Done by express direction; not involuntary; communded. [Obs.]
Those imperate acts, wherein we see the empire of the soul. Sir M.
Hale.

IMPERATIVAL
Im*per`a*ti"val, a. (Gram.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the imperative mood.

IMPERATIVE
Im*per"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. imperativus, fr. imperare to command;
pref. im- in + parare to make ready, prepare: cf. F. impératif. See
Perade, and cf. Empire.]

1. Expressive of command; containing positive command;
authoritatively or absolutely directive; commanding; authoritative;
as, imperative orders.
The suit of kings are imperative. Bp. Hall.

2. Not to be avoided or evaded; obligatory; binding; compulsory; as,
an imperative duty or order.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: Expressive of commund, entreaty, advice, or exhortation; as,
the imperative mood.

IMPERATIVE
Im*per"a*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: The imperative mood; also, a verb in the imperative mood.

IMPERATIVELY
Im*per"a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an imperative manner.

IMPERATOR
Im`pe*ra"tor, n. Etym: [L. See Emperor.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A commander; a leader; an emperor; -- originally an appellation
of honor by which Roman soldiers saluted their general after an
important victory. Subsequently the title was conferred as a
recognition of great military achievements by the senate, whence it
carried wiht it some special privileges. After the downfall of the
Republic it was assumed by Augustus and his successors, and came to
have the meaning now attached to the word emperor.

IMPERATORIAL
Im*per`a*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. imperatorius.]

1. Commanding; imperative; authoritative.

2. Of or pertaining to the title or office of imperator.
"Imperatorial laurels." C. Merivale.

IMPERATORIAN
Im*per`a*to"ri*an, a.

Defn: Imperial. [R.] Gauden.

IMPERATORY
Im*per"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Imperative. [R.]

IMPERCEIVABLE
Im`per*ceiv"a*ble, a.

Defn: Imperceptible. [R.] South.
 -- Im`per*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n. Sharp.

IMPERCEIVED
Im`per*ceived", a.

Defn: Not perceived. [Obs.]

IMPERCEPTIBILITY
Im`per*cep`ti*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being imperceptible.

IMPERCEPTIBLE
Im`per*cep"ti*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + perceptible: cf. F.
imperceptible.]

Defn: Not perceptible; not to be apprehended or cognized by the
souses; not discernible by the mind; not easily apprehended.
Almost imperceptible to the touch. Dryden.
Its operation is slow, and in some cases almost imperceptible. Burke.
-- Im`per*cep"ti*ble*ness, n.
 -- Im`per*cep"ti*bly, adv.
Their . . . subility and imperceptibleness. Sir M. Hale.

IMPERCEPTION
Im`per*cep"tion, n.

Defn: Want of perception.

IMPERCEPTIVE
Im`per*cep"tive, a.

Defn: Unable to perceive.
The imperceptive part of the soul. Dr. H. More.

IMPERCIPIENT
Im`per*cip"i*ent, a.

Defn: Not perceiving, or not able to perceive. A. Baxter.

IMPERDIBILITY
Im*per`di*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being imperdible. [Obs.] Derham.

IMPERDIBLE
Im*per"di*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + L. perdere to destroy.]

Defn: Not destructible. [Obs.] -- Im*per"di*bly, adv. [Obs.]

IMPERFECT
Im*per"fect, a. Etym: [L. imperfectus: pref. im- not + perfectus
perfect: cf. F imparfait, whence OE. imparfit. See Perfect.]

1. Not perfect; not complete in all its parts; wanting a part;
deective; deficient.
Something he left imperfect in the state. Shak.
Why, then, your other senses grow imperfect. Shak.

2. Wanting in some elementary organ that is essential to successful
or normal activity.
He . . . stammered like a child, or an amazed, imperfect person. Jer.
Taylor.

3. Not fulfilling its design; not realizing an ideal; not conformed
to a standard or rule; not satisfying the taste or conscience;
esthetically or morally defective.
Nothing imperfect or deficient left Of all that he created. Milton.
Then say not man's imperfect, Heaven in fault; Say rather, man's as
perfect as he ought. Pope.
Imperfect arch, an arch of less than a semicircle; a skew arch.
 -- Imperfect cadence (Mus.), one not ending with the tonic, but with
the dominant or some other chord; one not giving complete rest; a
half close.
 -- Imperfect consonances (Mus.), chords like the third and sixth,
whose ratios are less simple than those of the fifth and forth.
 -- Imperfect flower (Bot.), a flower wanting either stamens or
pistils. Gray.
 -- Imperfect interval (Mus.), one a semitone less than perfect; as,
an imperfect fifth.
 -- Imperfect number (Math.), a number either greater or less than
the sum of its several divisors; in the former case, it is called
also a defective number; in the latter, an abundant number.
 -- Imperfect obligations (Law), obligations as of charity or
gratitude, which cannot be enforced by law.
 -- Imperfect power (Math.), a number which can not be produced by
taking any whole number or vulgar fraction, as a factor, the number
of times indicated by the power; thus, 9 is a perfect square, but an
imperfect cube.
 -- Imperfect tense (Gram), a tense expressing past time and
incomplete action.

IMPERFECT
Im*per"fect, n. (Gram.)

Defn: The imperfect tense; or the form of a verb denoting the
imperfect tense.

IMPERFECT
Im*per"fect, v. t.

Defn: To make imperfect. [Obs.]

IMPERFECTIBILITY
Im`per*fec`ti*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being imperfectible. [R.]

IMPERFECTIBLE
Im`per*fec"ti*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being mad perfect. [R.]

IMPERFECTION
Im`per*fec"tion, n. Etym: [L. imperfectio: cf. F. imperfection. See
Imperfect, a.]

Defn: The quality or condition of being imperfect; want of
perfection; incompleteness; deficiency; fault or blemish.
Sent to my account With all my imperfections on my head. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Defect; deficiency; incompleteness; fault; failing; weakness;
frailty; foible; blemish; vice.

IMPERFECTNESS
Im*per"fect*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being imperfect.

IMPERFORABLE
Im*per"fo*ra*ble, a. Etym: [See Imperforate.]

Defn: Incapable of being perforated, or bored through.

IMPERFORATA
Im*per"fo*ra"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Imperforate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Foraminifera, including those in which the shell
is not porous.

IMPERFORATE; IMPERFORATED
Im*per"fo*rate, Im*per"fo*ra"ted, a. Etym: [L. pref. im- not +
perforatus, p. p. of perforate to perforate. See Perforate.]

Defn: Not perforated; having no opening or aperture. Sir J. Banks.

IMPERFORATION
Im*per`fo*ra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. imperforation.]

Defn: The state of being without perforation.

IMPERIAL
Im*pe"ri*al, a. Etym: [OE. emperial, OF. emperial, F. impérial, fr.
L. imperialis, fr. imperium command, sovereignty, empire. See
Empire.]

1. Of or pertaining to an empire, or to an emperor; as, an imperial
government; imperial authority or edict.
The last That wore the imperial diadem of Rome. Shak.

2. Belonging to, or suitable to, supreme authority, or one who wields
it; royal; sovereign; supreme. "The imperial democracy of Athens."
Mitford.
Who, as Ulysses says, opinion crowns With an imperial voice. Shak.
To tame the proud, the fetter'd slave to free, These are imperial
arts, and worthy thee. Dryden.
He sounds his imperial clarion along the whole line of battle. E.
Everett.

3. Of superior or unusual size or excellence; as, imperial paper;
imperial tea, etc. Imperial bushel, gallon, etc. See Bushel, Gallon,
etc.
 -- Imperial chamber, the, the sovereign court of the old German
empire.
 -- Imperial city, under the first German empire, a city having no
head but the emperor.
 -- Imperial diet, an assembly of all the states of the German
empire.
 -- Imperial drill. (Manuf.) See under 8th Drill.
 -- Imperial eagle. (Zoöl.) See Eagle.
 -- Imperial green. See Paris green, under Green.
 -- Imperial guard, the royal guard instituted by Napoleon I.
 -- Imperial weights and measures, the standards legalized by the
British Parliament.

IMPERIAL
Im*pe"ri*al, n. Etym: [F. impériale: cf. Sp. imperial.]

1. The tuft of hair on a man's lower lip and chin; -- so called from
the style of beard of Napoleon III.

2. An outside seat on a diligence. T. Hughes.

3. A luggage case on the top of a coach. Simmonds.

4. Anything of unusual size or excellence, as a large decanter, a
kind of large photograph, a large sheet of drowing, printing, or
writing paper, etc.

5. A gold coin of Russia worth ten rubles, or about eight dollars.
McElrath.

6. A kind of fine cloth brought into England from Greece. or other
Eastern countries, in the Middle Ages.

IMPERIALISM
Im*pe"ri*al*ism, n.

Defn: The power or character of an emperor; imperial authority; the
spirit of empire.
Roman imperialism had divided the world. C. H. Pearson.

IMPERIALIST
Im*pe"ri*al*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. impérialiste.]

Defn: One who serves an emperor; one who favors imperialism.

IMPERIALITY
Im*pe`ri*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Imperialities (.

1. Imperial power.

2. An imperial right or privilegs. See Royalty.
The late empress having, by ukases of grace, relinquished her
imperialities on the private mines, viz., the tenths of the copper,
iron, silver and gold. W. Tooke.

IMPERIALIZE
Im*pe"ri*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imperialized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Imperializing.]

Defn: To invest with imperial authority, character, or style; to
bring to the form of an empire. Fuller.

IMPERIALLY
Im*pe"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an imperial manner.

IMPERIALLY
Im*pe"ri*al*ly, n.

Defn: Imperial power. [R.] Sheldon.

IMPERIL
Im*per"il, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imperiled or Imperilled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Imperiling or Imperilling.]

Defn: To bring into peril; to endanger.

IMPERILMENT
Im*per"il*ment, n.

Defn: The act of imperiling, or the state of being imperiled.

IMPERIOUS
Im*pe"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. imperiosus: cf. F. impérieux. See
Imperial.]

1. Commanding; ascendant; imperial; lordly; majestic. [Obs.] "A vast
and imperious mind." Tilloison.
Therefore, great lords, be, as your titles witness, Imperious. Shak.

2. Haughly; arrogant; overbearing; as, an imperious tyrant; an
imperious manner.
This imperious man will work us all From princes into pages. Shak.
His bold, contemptuous, and imperious spirit soon made him
conspicuous. Macaulay.

3. Imperative; urgent; compelling.
Imperious need, which can not be withstood. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Dictatorial; haughty; domineering; overbearing; lordly;
tyrannical; despotic; arrogant; imperative; authoritative;
commanding; pressing.
 -- Imperious, Lordly, Domineering. One who is imperious exercises
his authority in a manner highly offensive for its spirit and tone;
one who is lordly assumes a lofty air in order to display his
importance; one who is domineering gives orders in a way to make
other feel their inferiority.

IMPERIOUSLY
Im*pe"ri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an imperious manner.

IMPERIOUSNESS
Im*pe"ri*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being imperious; arrogance;
haughtiness.
Imperiousness and severity is but an ill way of treating men who have
reason of their own to guide them. Locke.

IMPERISHABILITY
Im*per`ish*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being imperishable: indstructibility. "The
imperishability of the universe." Milman.

IMPERISHABLE
Im*per"ish*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + perishable: cf. F.
impérissable.]

Defn: Not perisha ble; not subject to decay; indestructible;
enduringpermanently; as, an imperishable monument; imperishable
renown.
 -- Im*per"ish*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Im*per"ish*a*bly, adv.

IMPERIUM
Im*pe"ri*um, n.; pl. Imperia (#). [L. See Empire.]

1. Supreme power; absolute dominion; empire.

2.  (Law) The right to command, which includes the right to employ
the force of the state to enforce the laws. It is one of the
principal attributes of the executive power.

IMPERIWIGGED
Im*per"i"wigged, a.

Defn: Wearing a periwig.

IMPERMANENCE; IMPERMANENCY
Im*per"ma*nence, Im*per"ma*nen*cy, n.

Defn: Want of permanence.

IMPERMANENT
Im*per"ma*nent, a.

Defn: Not permanent.

IMPERMEABILITY
Im*per`me*a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. im- not + permeability: cf. F.
imperméabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being impermeable.

IMPERMEABLE
Im*per"me*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + permeable: cf. F.
imperméable, L. impermeabilis.]

Defn: Not permeable; not permitting passage, as of a fluid. through
its substance; impervious; impenetrable; as, India rubber is
impermeable to water and to air.
 -- Im*per"me*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Im*per"me*a*bly, adv.

IMPERMISSIBLE
Im`per*mis"si*ble, a.

Defn: Not permissible.

IMPERSCRUTABLE
Im`per*scru"ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. imperscrutabilis.]

Defn: Not capable of being searched out; inscrutable. [Obs.] --
Im`per*scru"ta*ble*ness, n. [Obs.]

IMPERSEVERANT
Im`per*sev"er*ant, a.

Defn: Not persevering; fickle; thoughtless. [Obs.]

IMPERSONAL
Im*per"son*al, a. Etym: [L. impersonalis; pref. im- not + personalis
personal: cf. F. impersonnel. See Personal.]

Defn: Not personal; not representing a person; not having
personality.
An almighty but impersonal power, called Fate. Sir J. Stephen.
Impersonal verb (Gram.), a verb used with an indeterminate subject,
commonly, in English, with the impersonal pronoun it; as, it rains;
it snows; methinks (it seems to me). Many verbs which are not
strictly impersonal are often used impersonally; as, it goes well
with him.

IMPERSONAL
Im*per"son*al, n.

Defn: That which wants personality; specifically (Gram.), an
impersonal verb.

IMPERSONALITY
Im*per`son*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being impersonal; want or absence of
personality.

IMPERSONALLY
Im*per"son*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an impersonal manner.

IMPERSONATE
Im*per"son*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impersonated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impersonating.]

1. To invest with personality; to endow with the form of a living
being.

2. To ascribe the qualities of a person to; to personify.

3. To assume, or to represent, the person or character of; to
personate; as, he impersonated Macbeth.
Benedict impersonated his age. Milman.

IMPERSONATION; IMPERSONIFICATION
Im*per`son*a"tion, Im`per*son`i*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act of impersonating; personification; investment with
personality; representation in a personal form.

IMPERSONATOR
Im*per"son*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who impersonates; an actor; a mimic.

IMPERSPICUITY
Im*per`spi*cu"i*ty, n.

Defn: Want of perspicuity or clearness; vaguness; ambiguity.

IMPERSPICUOUS
Im`per*spic"u*ous, a.

Defn: Not perspicuous; not clear; obscure; vague; ambeguous.

IMPERSUADABLE
Im`per*suad"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. Impersuasible.]

Defn: Not to be persuaded; obstinate; unyielding; impersuasible.
 -- Im`per*suad"a*ble*ness, n.

IMPERSUASIBLE
Im`per*sua"si*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + persuasible: cf. OF.
impersuasible.]

Defn: Not persuasible; not to be moved by persuasion; inflexible;
impersuadable. Dr. H. More.
 -- Im`per*sua`si*bil"i*ty, n.

IMPERTINENCE
Im*per"ti*nence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. impertinence. See Impertinent.]

1. The condition or quality of being impertnent; absence of
pertinence, or of adaptedness; irrelevance; unfitness.

2. Conduct or language unbecoming the person, the society, or the
circumstances; rudeness; incivility.
We should avoid the vexation and impertinence of pedants who affect
to talk in a language not to be understood. Swift.

3. That which is impertinent; a thing out of place, or of no value.
There are many subtile impertinences learned in schools. Watts.

IMPERTINENCY
Im*per"ti*nen*cy, n.

Defn: Impertinence. [R.]
O, matter and impertinency mixed! Reason in madness! Shak.

IMPERTINENT
Im*per"ti*nent, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. impertinens, -entis; pref. im-
not + pertinens. See Pertinent.]

1. Not pertinent; not pertaining to the matter in hand; having no
bearing on the subject; not to the point; irrelevant; inapplicable.
Things that are impertinent to us. Tillotson.
How impertinent that grief was which served no end! Jer. Taylor.

2. Contrary to, or offending against, the rules of propriety or good
breeding; guilty of, or prone to, rude, unbecoming, or uncivil words
or actions; as, an impertient coxcomb; an impertient remark.

3. Trifing; inattentive; frivolous.

Syn.
 -- Rude; officious; intrusive; saucy; unmannerly; meddlesome;
disrespectful; impudent; insolent.
 -- Impertinent, Officious, Rude. A person is officious who obtrudes
his offices or assistance where they are not needed; he is
impertinent when he intermeddles in things with which he has no
concern. The former shows a want of tact, the latter a want of
breeding, or, more commonly, a spirit of sheer impudence. A person is
rude when he violates the proprieties of social life either from
ignorance or wantonness. "An impertinent man will ask questions for
the mere grafication of curiosity; a rude man will burst into the
room of another, or push against his person, inviolant of all
decorum; one who is officious is quite as unfortunate as he is
troublesome; when he strives to serve, he has the misfortune to
annoy." Crabb. See Impudence, and Insolent.

IMPERTINENT
Im*per"ti*nent, n.

Defn: An impertinent person. [R.]

IMPERTINENTLY
Im*per"ti*nent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an impertinent manner. "Not to betray myself impertinently."
B. Jonson.

IMPERTRANSIBILITY
Im`per*tran`si*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being impertransible. [R.]

IMPERTRANSIBLE
Im`per*tran"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. pref. im- not + pertransire to go
through. See Per- and Transient.]

Defn: Incapable of being passed through. [R.]

IMPERTURBABILITY
Im`per*turb`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being imperturbable.
[1913 Webster]

IMPERTURBABLE
Im`per*turb"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. imperturbabilis; pref. im- not +
perturbare to disturb: cf. F. imperturbable. See Perture.]

Defn: Incapable of being disturbed or disconcerted; as, imperturbable
gravity.

IMPERTURBABLY
Im`per*turb"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an imperturbable manner; calmly. C. Bronté.

IMPERTURBATION
Im*per`tur*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. imperturbatio.]

Defn: Freedom from agitation of mind; calmness; quietude. W. Montagu.

IMPERTURBED
Im`per*turbed", a.

Defn: Not perturbed.

IMPERVIABILITY
Im*per`vi*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being imperviable.

IMPERVIABLE
Im*per"vi*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not pervious; impervious. [R.] -- Im*per"vi*a*ble*ness, n. [R.]

IMPERVIOUS
Im*per"vi*ous, a. Etym: [L. impervius; pref. im- not + per through +
via way. See Voyage.]

Defn: Not pervious; not admitting of entrance or passage through; as,
a substance impervious to water or air.
This gulf impassable, impervious. Milton.
The minds of these zealots were absolutely impervious. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Impassable; pathless; impenetrable; imperviable; impermeable.
 -- Im*per"vi*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Im*per"vi*ous*ness, n.

IMPERY
Im"per*y, n.

Defn: Empery. [Archaic] Joye.

IMPEST
Im*pest", v. t.

Defn: To affict with pestilence; to infect, as with plague. [Obs.]

IMPESTER
Im*pes"ter, v. t.

Defn: See Pester. [Obs.]

IMPETIGINOUS
Im`pe*tig"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. impetiginous: cf. F. impétigineux.]

Defn: Of the nature of, or pertaining to, impetigo.

IMPETIGO
Im`pe*ti"go, n. Etym: [L., fr. impetere to attack.] (Med.)

Defn: A cutaneous, pustular eruption, not attended with fever;
usually, a kind of eczema with pustulation.

IMPETRABLE
Im"pe*tra*ble a. Etym: [L. impetrabilis: cf. F. impétrable. See
Impetrate.]

Defn: Capable of being obtained or moved by petition. [Obs.] Bailey.

IMPETRATE
Im"pe*trate, a. Etym: [L. impetratus, p. p. of impetrare to obtain;
pref. im- in + patrare to bring to pass.]

Defn: Obtained by entreaty. [Obs.] Ld. Herbert.

IMPETRATE
Im"pe*trate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impetrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impetrating.]

Defn: To obtain by request or entreaty. Usher.

IMPETRATION
Im`pe*tra"tion, n. Etym: [L. impetratio: cf. F. impétration.]

1. The act of impetrating, or obtaining by petition or entreaty.
[Obs.]
In way of impertation procuring the removal or allevation of our
crosses. Barrow.

2. (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: The obtaining of benefice from Rome by solicitation, which
benefice belonged to the disposal of the king or other lay patron of
the realm.

IMPETRATIVE
Im"pe*tra*tive, a. Etym: [L. impetrativus obtained by entreaty.]

Defn: Of the nature of impetration; getting, or tending to get, by
entreaty. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

IMPETRATORY
Im"pe*tra*to*ry, a.

Defn: Containing or expressing entreaty. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

IMPETUOSITY
Im*pet`u*os"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. impétuosité.]

1. The condition or quality of being impetuous; fury; violence.

2. Vehemence, or furiousnes of temper. Shak.

IMPETUOUS
Im*pet"u*ous, a. Etym: [F. impetueux, L. impetuosus. See Impetus.]

1. Rushing with force and violence; moving with impetus; furious;
forcible; violent; as, an impetuous wind; an impetuous torrent.
Went pouring forward with impetuous speed. Byron.

2. Vehement in feeling; hasty; passionate; violent; as, a man of
impetuous temper.
The people, on their holidays, Impetuous, insolent, unquenchable.
Milton.

Syn.
 -- Forcible; rapid; hasty; precipitate; furious; boisterous;
violent; raging; fierce; passionate.
 -- Im*pet"u*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Im*pet"u*ous*ness, n.

IMPETUS
Im"pe*tus, n. Etym: [L., fr. impetere to rush upon, attack; pref. im-
in + petere to fall upon, seek. See Petition.]

1. A property possessed by a moving body in virtue of its weight and
its motion; the force with which any body is driven or impelled;
momentum.

Note: Momentum is the technical term, impetus its popular equivalent,
yet differing from it as applied commonly to bodies moving or moved
suddenly or violently, and indicating the origin and intensity of the
motion, rather than its quantity or effectiveness.

2. Fig.: Impulse; incentive; vigor; force. Buckle.

3. (Gun.)

Defn: The aititude through which a heavy body must fall to acquire a
velocity equal to that with which a ball is discharged from a piece.

IMPEYAN PHEASANT
Im"pey*an pheas"ant. Etym: [From Lady Impey, who attempted to
naturalize the bird in England.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Indian crested pheasant of the genus Lophophorus. Several
species are known. Called also monaul, monal.

Note: They are remarkable for the bright color and brilliant matallic
hues of their plumage. The best known species (L. Impeyanus) has the
neck of a brilliant metallic red, changing to golden yellow in
certain lights.

IMPHEE
Im"phee, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The African sugar cane (Holcus saccharatus), -- resembling the
sorghum, or Chinese sugar cane.

IMPI
Im"pi (im"pi), n. [Zulu.]

Defn: A body of Kaffir warriors; a body of native armed men. [South
Africa]

As early as 1862 he crossed assagais with and defeated a Matabili
impi (war band).
James Bryce.

IMPICTURED
Im*pic"tured, a.

Defn: Pictured; impressed. [Obs.] Spenser.

IMPIERCE
Im*pierce", v. t. Etym: [Pref. im- in + pierce. Cf. Empierce.]

Defn: To pierce; to penetrate. [Obs.] Drayton.

IMPIERCEABLE
Im*pierce"a*ble a.

Defn: Not capable of being pierced; impenetrable. [Obs.] Spenser.

IMPIETY
Im*pi"e*ty, n.; pl. Impieties (. Etym: [L. impietas, fr. impius
impious; cf. F. impiété. See Impious, Piety.]

1. The quality of being impious; want of piety; irreverence toward
the Supreme Being; ungodliness; wickedness.

2. An impious act; an act of wickednes.
Those impieties for the which they are now visited. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Ungodliness; irreligion; unrighteousness; sinfulness;
profaneness; wickedness; godlessness.

IMPIGNORATE
Im*pig"no*rate, v. t. Etym: [LL. impignoratus, p. pl of impignorare
to pawn. See Pignoration.]

Defn: To pledge or pawn. [Obs.] Laing.

IMPIGNORATION
Im*pig`no*ra"tion, n. Etym: [LL. impignoratio: cf. F. impignoration.]

Defn: The act of pawning or pledging; the state of being pawned.
[Obs.] Bailey.

IMPING
Imp"ing, n. Etym: [See Imp to graft.]

1. The act or process of grafting or mending. [Archaic]

2. (Falconry)

Defn: The process of repairing broken feathers or a deficient wing.

IMPINGE
Im*pinge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impinged; p. pr. & vb. n. Impinging.]
Etym: [L. impingere; pref. im- in + pangere to fix, strike; prob.
akin to pacisci to agree, contract. See Pact, and cf. Impact.]

Defn: To fall or dash against; to touch upon; to strike; to hit; to
ciash with; -- with on or upon.
The cause of reflection is not the impinging of light on the solid or
impervious parts of bodies. Sir I. Newton.
But, in the present order of things, not to be employed without
impinging on God's justice. Bp. Warburton.

IMPINGEMENT
Im*pinge"ment, n.

Defn: The act of impinging.

IMPINGENT
Im*pin"gent, a. Etym: [L. impingens, p. pr.]

Defn: Striking against or upon.

IMPINGUATE
Im*pin"guate, v. t. Etym: [L. impinguatus, p. p. of impinguare to
fatten; pref. im- in + pinguis fat.]

Defn: To fatten; to make fat. [Obs.] Bacon.

IMPINGUATION
Im`pin*gua"tion, n.

Defn: The act of making fat, or the state of being fat or fattened.
[Obs.]

IMPIOUS
Im"pi*ous, a. Etym: [L. impius; pref. im- not + pius piou. See
Pious.]

Defn: Not pious; wanting piety; irreligious; irreverent; ungodly;
profane; wanting in reverence for the Supreme Being; as, an impious
deed; impious language.
When vice prevails, and impious men bear away, The post of honor is a
private station. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Impious, Irreligious, Profane. Irreligious is negative, impious
and profane are positive. An indifferent man may be irreligious; a
profane man is irreverent in speech and conduct; an impious man is
wickedly and boldly defiant in the strongest sense. Profane also has
the milder sense of secular. C. J. Smith.
 -- Im"pi*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Im"pi*ous*ness, n.

IMPIRE
Im"pire, n.

Defn: See Umpire. [Obs.] Huloet.

IMPISH
Imp"ish, a.

Defn: Having the qualities, or showing the characteristics, of an
imp.

IMPISHLY
Imp"ish*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an imp.

IMPITEOUS
Im*pit"e*ous, a.

Defn: Pitiless; cruel. [Obs.]

IMPLACABILITY
Im*pla`ca*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. implacabilitas: cf. F.
implacabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being implacable.

IMPLACABLE
Im*pla"ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. implacabilis; pref. im- not + placabilis:
cf. F. implacable. See Placable.]

1. Not placable; not to be appeased; incapable of being pacified;
inexorable; as, an implacable prince.
I see thou art implacable. Milton.
An object of implacable enmity. Macaulay.

2. Incapable of ebign relieved or assuaged; inextinguishable. [R.]
O! how I burn with implacable fire. Spenser.
Which wrought them pain Implacable, and many a dolorous groan.
Milton.

Syn.
 -- Unappeasable; inexorable; irreconcilable; unrelenting;
relentless; unyielding.

IMPLACABLENESS
Im*pla"ca*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being implacable; implacability.

IMPLACABLY
Im*pla"ca*bly, adv.

Defn: In an implacable manner.

IMPLACENTAL
Im`pla*cen"tal, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without a placenta, as marsupials and monotremes.
 -- n.

Defn: A mammal having no placenta.

IMPLACENTALIA
Im`pla*cen*ta"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See In- not, and Placental.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A primary division of the Mammalia, including the monotremes
and marsupials, in which no placenta is formed.

IMPLANT
Im*plant" v. t. [imp. & p. p. Implanted; p. pr. & vb. n. Implanting.]
Etym: [Pref. im- in + plant: cf. F. implanter.]

Defn: To plant, or infix, for the purpose of growth; to fix deeply;
to instill; to inculate; to introduce; as, to implant the seeds of
virtue, or the principles of knowledge, in the minds of youth.
Minds well implanted with solid . . . breeding. Milton.

IMPLANTATION
Im`plan*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. implantation.]

Defn: The act or process of implantating.

IMPLATE
Im*plate", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Implated; p. pr. & vb. n. Implating.]

Defn: To cover with plates; to sheathe; as, to implate a ship with
iron.

IMPLAUSIBILITY
Im*plau`si*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Want of plausibility; the quality of being implausible.

IMPLAUSIBLE
Im*plau"si*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + plausible: cf. F.
implausible.]

Defn: Not plausible; not wearing the appearance of truth or
credibility, and not likely to be believed. "Implausible harangues."
Swift.
 -- Im*plau"si*ble*ness, n.
 -- Im*plau"si*bly, adv.

IMPLEACH
Im*pleach", v. t.

Defn: To pleach; to interweave. [Obs.] Shak.

IMPLEAD
Im*plead", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impleaded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impleading.] Etym: [Cf. Emplead.] (Law)

Defn: To institute and prosecute a suit against, in court; to sue or
prosecute at law; hence, to accuse; to impeach.

IMPLEAD
Im*plead", v. i.

Defn: To sue at law.

IMPLEADABLE
Im*plead"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not admitting excuse, evasion, or plea; rigorous. [R.] T.
Adams.

IMPLEADER
Im*plead"er, n. (Law)

Defn: One who prosecutes or sues another.

IMPLEASING
Im*pleas"ing (, a.

Defn: Unpleasing; displeasing. [Obs.] Overbury.

IMPLEDGE
Im*pledge", v. t.

Defn: To pledge. Sir W. Scott.

IMPLEMENT
Im"ple*ment, n. Etym: [LL. implementum accomplishment, fr. L.
implere, impletum, to fill up, finish, complete; pref. im- in + plere
to fill. The word was perh. confuse with OF. empleier, emploier, to
employ, F. employer, whence E. employ. See Plenty.]

Defn: That which fulfills or supplies a want or use; esp., an
instrument, toll, or utensil, as supplying a requisite to an end; as,
the implements of trade, of husbandry, or of war.
Genius must have talent as its complement and implement. Coleridge.

IMPLEMENT
Im"ple*ment, v. t.

1. To accomplish; to fulfill. [R.]
Revenge . . . executed and implemented by the hand of Vanbeest Brown.
Sir W. Scott.

2. To provide with an implement or implements; to cause to be
fulfilled, satisfied, or carried out, by means of an implement or
implements.
The chief mechanical requisites of the barometer are implemented in
such an instrument as the following. Nichol.

3. (Scots Law)

Defn: To fulfill or perform, as a contract or an engagement.

IMPLEMENTAL
Im`ple*men"tal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, implements or their use;
mechanical.

IMPLETION
Im*ple"tion, n. Etym: [L. impletio. See Implement.]

1. The act of filling, or the state of being full. Sir T. Browne.

2. That which fills up; filling. Coleridge.

IMPLEX
Im"plex, a. Etym: [L. implexus, p. p. of implectere to infold; pref.
im- in + plectere to plait: cf. F implexe.]

Defn: Intricate; entangled; complicated; complex.
The fable of every poem is . . . simple or implex. it is called
simple when there is no change of fortune in it; implex, when the
fortune of the chief actor changes from bad to good, or from good to
bad. Addison.

IMPLEXION
Im*plex"ion, n. Etym: [L. implexio.]

Defn: Act of involving, or state of being involved; involution.

IMPLIABLE
Im*pli"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not pliable; inflexible; inyielding.

IMPLICATE
Im"pli*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Implicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Implicating.] Etym: [L. implicatus, p. p. of implicare to involve;
pref. im- in + plicare to fold. See Employ, Ply, and cf. Imply,
Implicit.]

1. To infold; to fold together; to interweave.
The meeting boughs and implicated leaves. Shelley.

2. To bring into connection with; to involve; to connect; -- applied
to persons, in an unfavorable sense; as, the evidence implicates many
in this conspiracy; to be implicated in a crime, a discreditable
transaction, a fault, etc.

IMPLICATION
Im`pli*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. implicatio: cf. F. implication.]

1. The act of implicating, or the state of being implicated.
Three principal causes of firmness are. the grossness, the quiet
contact, and the implication of component parts. Boyle.

2. An implying, or that which is implied, but not expressed; an
inference, or something which may fairly be understood, though not
expressed in words.
Whatever things, therefore, it was asserted that the king might do,
it was a necessary implication that there were other things which he
could not do. Hallam.

IMPLICATIVE
Im"pli*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Tending to implicate.

IMPLICATIVELY
Im"pli*ca*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: By implication. Sir G. Buck.

IMPLICIT
Im*plic"it, a. Etym: [L. implicitus, p. p. of implicare to entwine,
entangle, attach closely: cf. F. implicite. See Implicate.]

1. Infolded; entangled; complicated; involved. [Obs.] Milton.
In his woolly fleece I cling implicit. Pope.

2. Tacitly comprised; fairly to be understood, though not expressed
in words; implied; as, an implicit contract or agreement. South.

3. Resting on another; trusting in the word or authority of another,
without doubt or reserve; unquestioning; complete; as, implicit
confidence; implicit obedience.
Back again to implicit faith I fall. Donne.
Implicit function. (Math.) See under Function.

IMPLICITLY
Im*plic"it*ly, adv.

1. In an implicit manner; without reserve; with unreserved
confidence.
Not to dispute the methods of his providence, but humbly and
implicitly to acquiesce in and adore them. Atterbury.

2. By implication; impliedly; as, to deny the providence of God is
implicitly to deny his existence. Bentley.

IMPLICITNESS
Im*plic"it*ness, n.

Defn: State or quality of being implicit.

IMPLICITY
Im*plic"i*ty, n.

Defn: Implicitness. [Obs.] Cotgrave.

IMPLIED
Im*plied", a.

Defn: Virtually involved or included; involved in substance;
inferential; tacitly conceded; -- the correlative of express, or
expressed. See Imply.

IMPLIEDLY
Im*pli"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: By implication or inference. Bp. Montagu.

IMPLODED
Im*plod"ed, a. (Phon.)

Defn: Formed by implosion. Ellis.

IMPLODENT
Im*plod"ent, n. (Phon.)

Defn: An implosive sound. Ellis.

IMPLORATION
Im`plo*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. imploratio: cf. OF. imploration. See
Implore.]

Defn: The act of imploring; earnest supplication. Bp. Hall.

IMPLORATOR
Im"plo*ra`tor, n.

Defn: One who implores. [Obs.]
Mere implorators of unholy suits. Shak.

IMPLORATORY
Im*plor"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Supplicatory; entreating. [R.] Carlyle.

IMPLORE
Im*plore", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Implored; p. pr. & vb. n. Imploring.]
Etym: [L. implorare; pref. im- in + plorare to cry aloud. See
Deplore.]

Defn: To call upon, or for, in supplication; to beseech; to prey to,
or for, earnestly; to petition with urency; to entreat; to beg; --
followed directly by the word expressing the thing sought, or the
person from whom it is sought.
Imploring all the gods that reign above. Pope.
I kneel, and then implore her blessing. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To beseech; supplicate; crave; entreat; beg; solicit; petition;
prey; request; adjure. See Beseech.

IMPLORE
Im*plore", v. i.

Defn: To entreat; to beg; to prey.

IMPLORE
Im*plore", n.

Defn: Imploration. [Obs.] Spencer.

IMPLORER
Im*plor"er, n.

Defn: One who implores.

IMPLORING
Im*plor"ing, a.

Defn: That implores; beseeching; entreating.
 -- Im*plor"ing*ly, adv.

IMPLOSION
Im*plo"sion, n. Etym: [Formed by substitution of pref. im- in for
pref. ex- in explosion.]

1. A burstion inwards, as of a vessel from which the air has been
exhausted; -- contrasted with explosion.

2. (Phon.)

Defn: A sudden compression of the air in the mouth, simultaneously
with and affecting the sound made by the closure of the organs in
uttering p, t, or k, at the end of a syllable (see Guide to
Pronunciation, §§159, 189); also, a similar compression made by an
upward thrust of the larynx without any accompanying explosive
action, as in the peculiar sound of b, d, and g, heard in Southern
Germany. H. Sweet.

IMPLOSIVE
Im*plo"sive, a. (Phon.)

Defn: Formed by implosion.
 -- n.

Defn: An implosive sound, an implodent.
 -- Im*plo"sive*ly, adv. H. Sweet.

IMPLUMED
Im*plumed", a.

Defn: Not plumed; without plumes or feathers; featherless. [R.]
Drayton.

IMPLUNGE
Im*plunge", v. t.

Defn: To plunge. Fuller.

IMPLUVIUM
Im*plu"vi*um, n. Etym: [L., fr. impluere to rain into; pref. im- in +
pluere to rain.] (Arch.)

Defn: In Roman dwellings, a cistern or tank, set in the atrium or
peristyle to recieve the water from the roof, by means of the
compluvium; generally made ornamental with flowers and works of art
around its birm.

IMPLY
Im*ply", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Implied; p. pr. & vb. n. Implying.]
Etym: [From the same source as employ. See Employ, Ply, and cf.
Implicate, Apply.]

1. To infold or involve; to wrap up. [Obs.] "His head in curls
implied." Chapman.

2. To involve in substance or essence, or by fair inference, or by
construction of law, when not include virtually; as, war implies
fighting.
Where a mulicious act is proved, a mulicious intention is implied.
Bp. Sherlock.
When a man employs a laborer to work for him, . . . the act of hiring
implies an obligation and a promise that he shall pay him a
reasonable reward for his services. Blackstone.

3. To refer, ascribe, or attribute. [Obs.]
Whence might this distaste arise
If [from] neither your perverse and peevish will. To which I most
imply it. J. Webster.

Syn.
 -- To involve; include; comprise; import; mean; denote; signify;
betoken. See Involve.

IMPOISON
Im*poi"son, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Empoison.]

Defn: To poison; to imbitter; to impair.

IMPOISONER
Im*poi"son*er, n.

Defn: A poisoner. [Obs.] Beau. & Fi.

IMPOISONMENT
Im*poi"son*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. Empoisonment.]

Defn: The act of poisoning or impoisoning. [Obs.] Pope.

IMPOLARILY; IMPOLARLY
Im*po"lar*i*ly, Im*po"lar*ly, adv.

Defn: Not according to or in, the direction of the poles. [Obs.] Sir
T. Browne.

IMPOLICY
Im*pol"i*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being impolitic; inexpedience; unsuitableness to
the end proposed; bads policy; as, the impolicy of fraud. Bp.
Horsley.

IMPOLITE
Im`po*lite", a. Etym: [L. impolitus unpolishied, pref. im- not +
politus, p. p. of polire to polish, refine. See Polite.]

Defn: Not polite; not of polished manners; wanting in good manners;
discourteous; uncivil; rude.
 -- Im`po*lite"ly, adv.
 -- Im`po*lite"ness, n.

IMPOLITIC
Im*pol"i*tic, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + politic; cf. F. impolitique.]

Defn: Not politic; contrary to, or wanting in, policy; unwise;
imprudent; indiscreet; inexpedient; as, an impolitic ruler, law, or
measure.
The most unjust and impolitic of all things, unequal taxation. Burke.

Syn.
 -- Indiscreet; inexpedient; undiplomatic.

IMPOLITICAL
Im`po*lit"i*cal, a.

Defn: Impolitic. [Obs.] -- Im`po*lit"i*cal*ly, adv. [Obs.] Bacon.

IMPOLITICLY
Im*pol"i*tic*ly, adv.

Defn: In an impolitic manner.

IMPOLITICNESS
Im*pol"i*tic*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being impolitic.

IMPONDERABILITY
Im*pon`der*a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. impondérabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being imponderable; imponderableness.

IMPONDERABLE
Im*pon"der*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + ponderable: cf. F.
impondérable.]

Defn: Not ponderable; without sensible or appreciable weight;
incapable of being weighed.

IMPONDERABLE
Im*pon"der*a*ble, n. (Physics)

Defn: An imponderable substance or body; specifically, in the plural,
a name formely applied to heat, light, electricity, and magnetism,
regarded as subtile flyids destitute of weight but in modern science
little used.

IMPONDERABLENESS
Im*pon"der*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being imponderable.

IMPONDEROUS
Im*pon"der*ous, a.

Defn: Imponderable. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
 -- Im*pon"der*ous*ness, n. [Obs.]

IMPONE
Im*pone", v. t. Etym: [L. imponere, impositum, to place upon; pref.
im- in + ponere to place. See Position.]

Defn: To stake; to wager; to pledge. [Obs.]
Against the which he has imponed, as I take it, six French rapiers
and poniards. Shak.

IMPOOFO
Im*poo"fo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The eland. [Written also impoofoo.]

IMPOON
Im*poon", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The duykerbok.

IMPOOR
Im*poor", v. t.

Defn: To impoverish. [Obs.]

IMPOROSITY
Im`po*ros"i*ty, n. Etym: [Perf. im- not + porosity: cf. F.
imporosité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being imporous; want of porosity;
compactness. "The . . . imporosity betwixt the tangible parts."
Bacon.

IMPOROUS
Im*por"ous, a.

Defn: Destitute of pores; very close or compact in texture; solid.
Sir T. Browne.

IMPORT
Im*port", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imported; p. pr. & vb. n. Importing.]
Etym: [L. importare to bring in, to occasion, to cause; pref. im- in
+ portare to bear. Sense 3 comes through F. importer, from the Latin.
See Port demeanor.]

1. To bring in from abroad; to introduce from without; especially, to
bring (wares or merchandise) into a place or country from a foreign
country, in the transactions of commerce; -- opposed to export. We
import teas from China, coffee from Brasil, etc.

2. To carry or include, as meaning or intention; to imply; to
signify.
Every petition . . . doth . . . always import a multitude of speakers
together. Hooker.

3. To be of importance or consequence to; to have a bearing on; to
concern.
I have a motion much imports your good. Shak.
If I endure it, what imports it you Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To denote; mean; sighify; imply; indicate; betoken; interest;
concern.

IMPORT
Im*port", v. i.

Defn: To signify; to purport; to be of moment. "For that . . .
importeth to the work." Bacon.

IMPORT
Im"port, n.

1. Merchandise imported, or brought into a country from without its
boundaries; -- generally in the plural, opposed to exports.
I take the imports from, and not the exports to, these conquests, as
the measure of these advantages which we derived from them. Burke.

2. That which a word, phrase, or document contains as its
signification or intention or interpretation of a word, action,
event, and the like.

3. Importance; weight; consequence.
Most serious design, and the great import. Shak.

IMPORTABLE
Im*port"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. importable. See Import.]

Defn: Capable of being imported.

IMPORTABLE
Im*port"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. importabilis; pref. im- not + portabilis
bearable: cf. OF. importable. See Portable.]

Defn: Not to be endured; insupportable; intolerable. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- Im*port"a*ble*ness, n. [Obs.]

IMPORTANCE
Im*por"tance, n. Etym: [F. importance. See Important.]

1. The quality or state of being important; consequence; weight;
moment; significance.
Thy own importance know, Nor bound thy narrow views to things below.
Pope.

2. Subject; matter. [Obs.]
Upon importance of so slight and trivial a nature. Shak.

3. Import; meaning; significance. [Obs.]
The wisest beholder could not say if the importance were joy or
sorrow. Shak.

4. Importunity; solicitation. [Obs.]
At our importance hither is he come. Shak.

IMPORTANCY
Im*por"tan*cy, n.

Defn: Importance; significance; consequence; that which is important.
[Obs.] Shak. "Careful to conceal importancies." Fuller.

IMPORTANT
Im*por"tant, a. Etym: [F. important. See Import, v. t.]

1. Full of, or burdened by, import; charged with great interests;
restless; anxious. [Obs.]
Thou hast strength as much As serves to execute a mind very
important. Chapman.

2. Carrying or possessing weight or consequence; of valuable content
or bearing; significant; weighty.
Things small as nothing . . . He makes important. Shak.

3. Bearing on; forcible; driving. [Obs.]
He fiercely at him flew, And with important outrage him assailed.
Spenser.

4. Importunate; pressing; urgent. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- Weighty; momentous; significant; essential; necessary;
considerable; influential; serious.

IMPORTANTLY
Im*por"tant*ly, adv.

Defn: In an important manner.

IMPORTATION
Im`por*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. importation. See Import, v. t.]

1. The act of carrying, conveying, or delivering. [R.]

2. The act or practice of importing, or bringing into a country or
state; -- opposed to exportation.

3. That which is imported; commodities or wares introduced into a
country from abroad.

IMPORTER
Im*port"er, n.

Defn: One who imports; the merchant who brings goods into a country
or state; -- opposed to exporter.

IMPORTING
Im*port"ing, a.

Defn: Full of meaning. [Obs.] Shak.

IMPORTLESS
Im*port"less, a.

Defn: Void of meaning. [Obs.] Shak.

IMPORTUNABLE
Im*por"tu*na*ble, a.

Defn: Heavy; insupportable. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

IMPORTUNACY
Im*por"tu*na*cy, n. Etym: [From Importunate.]

Defn: The quality of being importunate; importunateness.

IMPORTUNATE
Im*por"tu*nate, a. Etym: [See Importune.]

1. Troublesomely urgent; unreasonably solicitous; overpressing in
request or demand; urgent; teasing; as, an impotunate petitioner,
curiosity. Whewell.

2. Hard to be borne; unendurable. [R.] Donne.
 -- Im*por"tu*nate*ly, adv.
 -- Im*por"tu*nate*ness, n.

IMPORTUNATOR
Im*por"tu*na`tor, n.

Defn: One who importunes; an importuner. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys.

IMPORTUNE
Im`por*tune", a. Etym: [F. importun, L. importunus; pref. im- not + a
derivative from the root of portus harbor, importunus therefore orig.
meaning, hard of access. See Port harbor, and cf. Importunate.]

1. Inopportune; unseasonable. [Obs.]

2. Troublesome; vexatious; persistent; urgent; hence, vexatious on
account of untimely urgency or perinacious solicitation. [Obs.]
And their importune fates all satisfied. Spenser.
Of all other affections it [envy] is the most importune and
continual. Bacon.

IMPORTUNE
Im`por*tune", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Importuned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Importuning.] Etym: [From Importune, a.: cf. F. importuner.]

1. To request or solicit, with urgency; to press with frequent,
unreasonable, or troublesome application or pertinacity; hence, to
tease; to irritate; to worry.
Their ministers and residents here have perpetually importuned the
court with unreasonable demands. Swift.

2. To import; to signify. [Obs.] "It importunes death." Spenser.

IMPORTUNE
Im`por*tune", v. i.

Defn: To require; to demand. [Obs.]
We shall write to you, As time and our concernings shall importune.
Shak.

IMPORTUNELY
Im`por*tune"ly, adv.

Defn: In an importune manner. [Obs.]

IMPORTUNER
Im`por*tun"er, n.

Defn: One who importunes.

IMPORTUNITY
Im`por*tu"ni*ty, n.; pl. Importunities. Etym: [L. importunitas
unsuitableness, rudeness: cf. F. importunité.]

Defn: The quality of being importunate; pressing or pertinacious
solicitation; urgent request; incessant or frequent application;
troublesome pertinacity.
O'ercome with importunity and tears. Milton.

IMPORTUOUS
Im*por"tu*ous, a. Etym: [L. importuosus; pref.im- not + portuosus
abounding in harbors, fr. portus harbor.]

Defn: Without a port or harbor. [R.]

IMPOSABLE
Im*pos"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. imposable.]

Defn: Capable of being imposed or laid on. Hammond.

IMPOSABLENESS
Im*pos"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being imposable.

IMPOSE
Im*pose", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imposed; p. pr. & vb. n. Imposing.]
Etym: [F. imposer; pref. im- in + poser to place. See Pose, v. t.]

1. To lay on; to set or place; to put; to deposit.
Cakes of salt and barley [she] did impose Within a wicker basket.
Chapman.

2. To lay as a charge, burden, tax, duty, obligation, command,
penalty, etc.; to enjoin; to levy; to inflict; as, to impose a toll
or tribute.
What fates impose, that men must needs abide. Shak.
Death is the penalty imposed. Milton.
Thou on the deep imposest nobler laws. Waller.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: To lay on, as the hands, in the religious rites of confirmation
and ordination.

4. (Print.)

Defn: To arrange in proper order on a table of stone or metal and
lock up in a chase for printing; -- said of columns or pages of type,
forms, etc.

IMPOSE
Im*pose", v. i.

Defn: To practice trick or deception. To impose on or upon, to pass
or put a trick on; to delude. "He imposes on himself, and mistakes
words for things." Locke.

IMPOSE
Im*pose", n.

Defn: A command; injunction. [Obs.] Shak.

IMPOSEMENT
Im*pose"ment, n.

Defn: Imposition. [Obs.]

IMPOSER
Im*pos"er, n.

Defn: One who imposes.
The imposers of these oaths might repent. Walton.

IMPOSING
Im*pos"ing, a.

1. Laying as a duty; enjoining.

2. Adapted to impress forcibly; impressive; commanding; as, an
imposing air; an imposing spectacle. "Large and imposing edifices."
Bp. Hobart.

3. Deceiving; deluding; misleading.

IMPOSING
Im*pos"ing, n. (Print.)

Defn: The act of imposing the columns of a page, or the pages of a
sheet. See Impose, v. t., 4. Imposing stone (Print.), the stone on
which the pages or columns of types are imposed or made into forms; -
- called also imposing table.

IMPOSINGLY
Im*pos"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In an imposing manner.

IMPOSINGNESS
Im*pos"ing*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being imposing.

IMPOSITION
Im`po*si"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. impositio the application of a
name to a thing. See Impone.]

1. The act of imposing, laying on, affixing, enjoining, inflicting,
obtruding, and the like. "From imposition of strict laws." Milton.
Made more solemn by the imposition of hands. Hammond.

2. That which is imposed, levied, or enjoined; charge; burden;
injunction; tax.

3. (Eng. Univ.)

Defn: An extra exercise enjoined on students as a punishment. T.
Warton.

4. An excessive, arbitrary, or unlawful exaction; hence, a trick or
deception put on laid on others; cheating; fraud; delusion;
imposture.
Reputation is an idle and most false imposition. Shak.

5. (Eccl.)

Defn: The act of laying on the hands as a religious ceremoy, in
ordination, confirmation, etc.

6. (Print.)

Defn: The act or process of imosing pages or columns of type. See
Impose, v. t., 4.

Syn.
 -- Deceit; fraud; imposture. See Deception.

IMPOSSIBILITY
Im*pos`si*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Impossibilities. Etym: [L.
impossibilitas: cf. F. impossibilité.]

1. The quality of being impossible; impracticability.
They confound difficulty with impossibility. South.

2. An impossible thing; that which can not be thought, done, or
endured.
Impossibilities! O, no, there's none. Cowley.

3. Inability; helplessness. [R.] Latimer. Logical impossibility, a
condition or statement involving contradiction or absurdity; as, that
a thing can be and not be at the same time. See Principle of
Contradiction, under Contradiction.

IMPOSSIBLE
Im*pos"si*ble, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. impossibilis; pref. im- not +
possibilis possible. See Possible.]

Defn: Not possible; incapable of being done, of existing, etc.;
unattainable in the nature of things, or by means at command;
insuperably difficult under the circumstances; absurd or
impracticable; not feasible.
With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible.
Matt. xix. 26.
Without faith it is impossible to please him. Heb. xi. 6.
Impossible quantity (Math.), an imagnary quantity. See Imaginary.

Syn.
 -- See Impracticable.

IMPOSSIBLE
Im*pos"si*ble, n.

Defn: An impossibility. [Obs.]
"Madam," quoth he, "this were an impossible!" Chaucer.

IMPOSSIBLY
Im*pos"si*bly, adv.

Defn: Not possibly. Sir. T. North.

IMPOST
Im"post, n. Etym: [OF. impost, F. impot, LL. impostus, fr. L.
impostus, p. p. of imponere to impose. See Impone.]

1. That which is imposed or levied; a tax, tribute, or duty;
especially, a duty or tax laid by goverment on goods imported into a
country.
Even the ship money . . . Johnson could not pronounce to have been an
unconstitutional impost. Macaulay.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: The top member of a pillar, pier, wall, etc., upon which the
weight of an arch rests.

Note: The impost is called continuous, if the moldings of the arch or
architrave run down the jamb or pier without a break.

Syn.
 -- Tribute; excise; custom; duty; tax.

IMPOSTHUMATE
Im*post"hu*mate, v. t. Etym: [See Imposthume.]

Defn: To apostemate; to form an imposthume or abscess. Arbuthnot.

IMPOSTHUMATE
Im*post"hu*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imposthumated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Imposthumating.]

Defn: To affect with an imposthume or abscess.

IMPOSTHUMATE
Im*post"hu*mate, a.

Defn: Imposthumated.

IMPOSTHUMATION
Im*post`hu*ma"tion, n.

1. The act of forming an abscess; state of being inflamed;
suppuration.

2. An abscess; an imposthume. Coxe.

IMPOSTHUME
Im*post"hume, n. Etym: [A corruption of aposteme. See Aposteme.]

Defn: A collection of pus or purulent matter in any part of an animal
body; an abscess.

IMPOSTHUME
Im*post"hume, v. t. & i.

Defn: Same as Imposthumate.

IMPOSTOR
Im*pos"tor, n. Etym: [L. impostor a deceiver, fr. imponere to impose
upon, deceive. See Impone.]

Defn: One who imposes upon others; a person who assumes a character
or title not his own, for the purpose of deception; a pretender. "The
fraudulent impostor foul." Milton.

Syn.
 -- Deceiver; cheat; rogue. See Deceiver.

IMPOSTORSHIP
Im*pos"tor*ship, n.

Defn: The condition, character, or practice of an impostor. Milton.

IMPOSTRESS; IMPOSTRIX
Im*pos"tress, Im*pos"trix, n. Etym: [LL. impostrix. See Impostor.]

Defn: A woman who imposes upon or deceives others. [R.] Fuller.

IMPOSTROUS
Im*pos"trous, n.

Defn: Characterized by imposture; deceitful. "Impostrous pretense of
knowledge." Grote.

IMPOSTURAGE
Im*pos"tur*age, n.

Defn: Imposture; cheating. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

IMPOSTURE
Im*pos"ture, n. Etym: [L. impostura: cf. F. imposture. See Impone.]

Defn: The act or conduct of an impostor; deception practiced under a
false or assumed character; fraud or imposition; cheating.
From new legends And fill the world with follies and impostures.
Johnson.

Syn.
 -- Cheat; fraud; trick; imposition; delusion.

IMPOSTURED
Im*pos"tured, a.

Defn: Done by imposture. [Obs.]

IMPOSTUROUS
Im*pos"tur*ous, a.

Defn: Impostrous; deceitful.
Strictness fales and impostrous. Beau. & Fl.

IMPOSTURY
Im*pos"tur*y, n.

Defn: Imposture. [Obs.] Fuller.

IMPOTENCE; IMPOTENCY
Im"po*tence, Im"po*ten*cy, n. Etym: [L. impotenia inability, poverty,
want of moderation. See Impotent.]

1. The quality or condition of being impotent; want of strength or
power, animal, intellectual, or moral; weakness; feebleness;
inability; imbecility.
Some were poor by impotency of nature; as young fatherless children,
old decrepit persons, idiots, and cripples. Hayward.
O, impotence of mind in body strong! Milton.

2. Want of self-restraint or self-control. [R.] Milton.

3. (Law & Med.)

Defn: Want of procreative power; inability to copulate, or beget
children; also, sometimes, sterility; barrenness.

IMPOTENT
Im"po*tent, a. Etym: [F. impotent, L. impotens, -entis; pref. im- not
+ potens potent, powerful. See Potent.]

1. Not potent; wanting power, strength. or vigor. whether physical,
intellectual, or moral; deficient in capacity; destitute of force;
weak; feeble; infirm.
There sat a certain man at Lystra, impotent inhis feet. Acts xiv. 8.
O most lame and impotent conclusion! Shak.
Not slow to hear, Nor impotent to save. Addison.

2. Wanting the power of self-restraint; incontrolled; ungovernable;
violent.
Impotent of tongue, her silence broke. Dryden.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Wanting the power of procreation; unable to copulate; also,
sometimes, sterile; barren.

IMPOTENT
Im"po*tent, n.

Defn: One who is imoitent. [R.] Shak.

IMPOTENTLY
Im"po*tent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an impotent manner.

IMPOUND
Im*pound" (, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impounded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impounding.]

Defn: To shut up or place in an inclosure called a pound; hence, to
hold in the custody of a court; as, to impound stray cattle; to
impound a document for safe keeping.
But taken and impounded as a stray, The king of Scots. Shak.

IMPOUNDAGE
Im*pound"age, n.

1. The act of impounding, or the state of being impounded.

2. The fee or fine for impounding.

IMPOUNDER
Im*pound"er, n.

Defn: One who impounds.

IMPOVERISH
Im*pov"er*ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impoverished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impoverishing.] Etym: [OF. empovrir; pref. em- (L. in) + povre poor,
F. pauvre; cf. OF. apovrir, F. appauvrir, where the prefix is a-, L.
ad. Cf. Empoverish, and see Poor, and -ish.]

1. To make poor; to reduce to poverty or indigence; as, misfortune
and disease impoverish families.

2. To exhaust the strength, richness, or fertility of; to make
sterile; as, to impoverish land.

IMPOVERISHER
Im*pov"er*ish*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, impoverishes.

IMPOVERISHMENT
Im*pov"er*ish*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. empoverissement, and F.
appauvrissement.]

Defn: The act of impoverishing, or the state of being impoverished;
reduction to poverty. Sir W. Scott.

IMPOWER
Im*pow"er, v. t.

Defn: See Empower.

IMP-POLE
Imp"-pole` (, n. (Building)

Defn: A pole for supporting a scaffold.

IMPRACTICABILITY
Im*prac`ti*ca*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Impracticabilities (.

1. The state or quality of being impracticable; infeasibility.
Goldsmith.

2. An impracticable thing.

3. Intractableness; stubbornness.

IMPRACTICABLE
Im*prac"ti*ca*ble, a.

1. Not practicable; incapable of being performed, or accomplished by
the means employed, or at command; impossible; as, an impracticable
undertaking.

2. Not to be overcome, presuaded, or controlled by any reasonable
method; unmanageable; intractable; not capable of being easily dealt
with; -- used in a general sense, as applied to a person or thing
that is difficult to control or get along with.
This though, impracticable heart Is governed by a dainty-fingered
girl. Rowe.
Patriotic butloyal men went away disguested afresh with the
impracticable arrogance of a sovereign. Palfrey.

3. Incapable of being used or availed of; as, an impracticable road;
an impracticable method.

Syn.
 -- Impossible; infeasible.
 -- Impracticable, Impossible. A thing is impracticable when it can
not be accomplished by any human means at present possessed; a thing
is impossible when the laws of nature forbid it. The navigation of a
river may now be impracticable, but not impossible, because the
existing obstructions may yet be removed. "The barons exercised the
most despotic authority over their vassals, and every scheme of
public utility was rendered impracticable by their continued petty
wars with each other." Mickle. "With men this is impossible, but with
God all things are possible." Matt. xix. 26.

IMPRACTICABLENESS
Im*prac"ti*ca*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being impracticable; impracticability.

IMPRACTICABLY
Im*prac"ti*ca*bly, adv.

Defn: In an impracticable manner.
Morality not impracticably rigid. Johnson.

IMPRACTICAL
Im*prac"ti*cal, a.

Defn: Not practical.

IMPRECATE
Im"pre*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imprecated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Imprecating.] Etym: [L. imprecatus, p. p. of imprecari to imprecate;
pref. im- in, on + precari to pray. See Pray.]

1. To call down by prayer, as something hurtful or calamitous.
Imprecate the vengeance of Heaven on the guilty empire. Mickle.

2. To invoke evil upon; to curse; to swear at.
In vain we blast the ministers of Fate, And the forlorn physicians
imprecate. Rochester.

IMPRECATION
Im`pre*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. imprecatio: cf. F. imprécation.]

Defn: The act of imprecating, or unvoking evil upon any one; a player
that a curse or calamnity may fall on any one; a curse.
Men cowered like slaves before such horrid imprecations. Motley.

Syn.
 -- Malediction; curse; execration; anathema. See Malediction.

IMPRECATORY
Im"pre*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of the nature of, or containing, imprecation; invokingevil; as,
the imprecatory psalms.

IMPRECISION
Im`pre*ci"sion, n.

Defn: Want of precision. [R.]

IMPREGN
Im*pregn", v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. impregner. See Impregnate.]

Defn: To impregnate; to make fruitful. [Obs.]
His perniciousss words, impregned With reason. Milton.
Semele doth Bacchus bear Impregned of Jove. Dr. H. More.

IMPREGNABILITY
Im*preg`na*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being impregnable; invincibility.

IMPREGNABLE
Im*preg"na*ble, a. Etym: [F. imprenable; pref. im- not + prenable
pregnable, fr. prendre to take, L. prehendere. See Comprehend, Get to
obtain.]

Defn: Not to be stormed, or taken by assault; incapable of being
subdued; able to resist attack; unconquerable; as, an impregnable
fortress; impregnable virtue.
The man's affection remains wholly unconcerned and impregnable.
South.
-- Im*preg"na*ble*ness, n.
 -- Im*preg"na*bly, adv.

IMPREGNABLE
Im*preg"na*ble, a. Etym: [See Impregnate.] (Biol.)

Defn: Capable of being impregnated, as the egg of an animal, or the
ovule of a plant.

IMPREGNANT
Im*preg"nant, n. Etym: [See Impregnate.]

Defn: That which impregnates. [R.] Glanvill.

IMPREGNANT
Im*preg"nant, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + pregnant.]

Defn: Not pregnant; unfertilized or infertile. [R.]

IMPREGNATE
Im*preg"nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impregnated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impregnating.] Etym: [LL. impraegnatus, p. p. of impraegnare to
impregnate, fr. L. pref. im- in + praegnans pregnant. See Pregnant.]

1. To make pregnant; to cause to conceive; to render prolific; to get
with child or young.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: To come into contact with (an ovum or egg) so as to cause
impregnation; to fertilize; to fecundate.

3. To infuse an active principle into; to render frutful or fertile
in any way; to fertilize; to imbue.

4. To infuse particles of another substance into; to communicate the
quality of another to; to cause to be filled, imbued, mixed, or
furnished (with something); as, to impregnate India rubber with
sulphur; clothing impregnated with contagion; rock impregnated with
ore.

IMPREGNATE
Im*preg"nate, v. i.

Defn: To become pregnant. Addison.

IMPREGNATE
Im*preg"nate, a. Etym: [LL. impraegnatus, p. p.]

Defn: Impregnated; made prolific.
The scorching ray Here pierceth not, impregnate with disease. Byron.

IMPREGNATION
Im`preg*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. imprégnation, LL. impraegnatio.]

1. The act of impregnating or the state of being impregnated;
fecundation.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: The fusion of a female germ cell (ovum) with a male germ cell
(in animals, a spermatozoön) to form a single new cell endowed with
the power of developing into a new individual; fertilization;
fecundation.

Note: In the broadest biological sense, impregnation, or sexual
generation, consists simply in the coalescence of two similar masses
of protoplasmic matter, either derived from different parts of the
same organism or from two distinct organisms. From the single mass,
which results from the fusion, or coalescence, of these two masses, a
new organism develops.

3. That with which anything is impregnated. Derham.

4. Intimate mixture; influsion; saturation.

5. (Mining)

Defn: An ore deposit, with indefinite boundaries, consisting of rock
impregnated with ore. Raymond.

IMPREJUDICATE
Im`pre*ju"di*cate, a.

Defn: Not prejuged; unprejudiced; impartial. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

IMPRENABLE
Im*pre"na*ble, a.

Defn: Impregnable. [Obs.]

IMPREPARATION
Im*prep`a*ra"tion, n.

Defn: Want of preparation. [Obs.] Hooker.

IMPRESA
Im*pre"sa, n. Etym: [It. See Emprise, and cf. Impress, n., 4.] (Her.)

Defn: A device on a shield or seal, or used as a bookplate or the
like. [Written also imprese and impress.]
My impresa to your lordship; a swain Flying to a laurel for shelter.
J. Webster.

IMPRESARIO
Im`pre*sa"ri*o, n.; pl. Impresarios. Etym: [It., from impresa
enterprise.]

Defn: The projector, manager, or conductor, of an opera or concert
company.

IMPRESCRIPTIBILITY
Im`pre*scrip`ti*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. imprescriptibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being imprescriptible.

IMPRESCRIPTIBLE
Im`pre*scrip"ti*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + prescriptible: cf. F.
imprescriptible.]

1. Not capable of being lost or impaired by neglect, by disuse, or by
the claims of another founded on prescription.
The right of navigation, fishing, and others that may be exercised on
the sea, belonging to the right of mere ability, are imprescriptible.
Vattel (Trans. )

2. Not derived from, or dependent on, external authority; self-
evidencing; obvious.
The imprescriptible laws of the pure reason. Colerridge.

IMPRESCRIPTIBLY
Im`pre*scrip"ti*bly, adv.

Defn: In an imprescriptible manner; obviously.

IMPRESE
Im*prese", n.

Defn: A device. See Impresa.
An imprese, as the Italians call it, is a device in picture with his
motto or word, borne by noble or learned personages. Camden.

IMPRESS
Im*press", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impressed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impressing.] Etym: [L. impressus, p. p. of imprimere to impress;
pref. im- in, on + premere to press. See Press to squeeze, and cf.
Imprint.]

1. To press, stamp, or print something in or upon; to mark by
pressure, or as by pressure; to imprint (that which bears the
impression).
His heart, like an agate, with your print impressed. Shak.

2. To produce by pressure, as a mark, stamp, image, etc.; to imprint
(a mark or figure upon something).

3. Fig.: To fix deeply in the mind; to present forcibly to the
attention, etc.; to imprint; to inculcate.
Impress the motives of persuasion upon our own hearts till we feel
the force of them. I. Watts.

4. Etym: [See Imprest, Impress, n., 5.]

Defn: To take by force for public service; as, to impress sailors or
money.
The second five thousand pounds impressed for the service of the sick
and wounded prisoners. Evelyn.

IMPRESS
Im*press", v. i.

Defn: To be impressed; to rest. [Obs.]
Such fiendly thoughts in his heart impress. Chaucer.

IMPRESS
Im"press, n.; pl. Impresses (.

1. The act of impressing or making.

2. A mark made by pressure; an indentation; imprint; the image or
figure of anything, formed by pressure or as if by pressure; result
produced by pressure or influence.
The impresses of the insides of these shells. Woodward.
This weak impress of love is as a figure Trenched in ice. Shak.

3. Characteristic; mark of distinction; stamp. South.

4. A device. See Impresa. Cussans.
To describe . . . emblazoned shields, Impresses quaint. Milton.

5. Etym: [See Imprest, Press to force into service.]

Defn: The act of impressing, or taking by force for the public
service; compulsion to serve; also, that which is impressed.
Why such impress of shipwrights Shak.
Impress gang, a party of men, with an officer, employed to impress
seamen for ships of war; a press gang.
 -- Impress money, a sum of money paid, immediately upon their
entering service, to men who have been impressed.

IMPRESSIBILITY
Im*press`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being impressible; susceptibility.

IMPRESSIBLE
Im*press"i*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. impressible.]

Defn: Capable of being impressed; susceptible; sensitive.
 -- Im*press"i*ble*ness, n.
 -- Im*press"i*bly, adv.

IMPRESSION
Im*pres"sion, n. Etym: [F. impression, L. impressio.]

1. The act of impressing, or the state of being impressed; the
communication of a stamp, mold, style, or character, by external
force or by influence.

2. That which is impressed; stamp; mark; indentation; sensible result
of an influence exerted from without.
The stamp and clear impression of good sense. Cowper.
To shelter us from impressions of weather, we must spin, we must
weave, we must build. Barrow.

3. That which impresses, or exercises an effect, action, or agency;
appearance; phenomenon. [Obs.]
Portentous blaze of comets and impressions in the air. Milton.
A fiery impression falling from out of Heaven. Holland.

4. Influence or effect on the senses or the intellect hence,
interest, concern. Reid.
His words impression left. Milton.
Such terrible impression made the dream. Shak.
I have a father's dear impression, And wish, before I fall into my
grave, That I might see her married. Ford.

5. An indistinct notion, remembrance, or belief.

6. Impressiveness; emphasis of delivery.
Which must be read with an impression. Milton.

7. (Print.)

Defn: The pressure of the type on the paper, or the result of such
pressure, as regards its appearance; as, a heavy impression; a clear,
or a poor, impression; also, a single copy as the result of printing,
or the whole edition printed at a given time.
Ten impressions which his books have had. Dryden.

8. In painting, the first coat of color, as the priming in house
painting and the like. [R.]

9. (Engraving)

Defn: A print on paper from a wood block, metal plate, or the like.
Proof impression, one of the early impressions taken from an
engraving, before the plate or block is worn.

IMPRESSIONABILITY
Im*pres`sion*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being impressionable.

IMPRESSIONABLE
Im*pres"sion*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. impressionnable.]

Defn: Liable or subject to impression; capable of being molded;
susceptible; impressible.
He was too impressionable; he had too much of the temperament of
genius. Motley.
A pretty face and an impressionable disposition. T. Hook.

IMPRESSIONABLENESS
Im*pres"sion*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being impressionable.

IMPRESSIONISM
Im*pres"sion*ism, n. Etym: [F. impressionnisme.] (Fine Arts)

Defn: The theory or method of suggesting an effect or impression
without elaboration of the details; -- a disignation of a recent
fashion in painting and etching.

IMPRESSIONIST
Im*pres"sion*ist, n. Etym: [F. impressionniste.] (Fine Arts)

Defn: One who adheres to the theory or method of impressionism, so
called.

IMPRESSIONISTIC
Im*pres`sion*is"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, impressionism.

IMPRESSIONLESS
Im*pres"sion*less, a.

Defn: Having the quality of not being impressed or affected; not
susceptible.

IMPRESSIVE
Im*press"ive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. impressif.]

1. Making, or tending to make, an impression; having power to
impress; adapted to excite attention and feeling, to touch the
sensibilities, or affect the conscience; as, an impressive discourse;
an impressive scene.

2. Capable of being impressed. [Obs.] Drayton. - Im*press"ive*ly,
adv.
 -- Im*press"ive*ness, n.

IMPRESSMENT
Im*press"ment, n.

Defn: The act of seizing for public use, or of impressing into public
service; compulsion to serve; as, the impressment of provisions or of
sailors.
The great scandal of our naval service -- impressment -- died a
protracted death. J. H. Burton.

IMPRESSOR
Im*press"or, n. Etym: [LL., a printer.]

Defn: One who, or that which, impresses. Boyle.

IMPRESSURE
Im*pres"sure, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. impressure, LL. impressura.]

Defn: Dent; impression. [Obs.] Shak.

IMPREST
Im*prest" (, v. t. [ imp. & p. p. Imprested; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impresting.] Etym: [Pref. im- + prest: cf. It. imprestare. See Prest,
n.]

Defn: To advance on loan. Burke.

IMPREST
Im"prest, n. Etym: [Cf. It. impresto, imprestito, LL. impraestitum.
See Imprest, v. t., and Impress compulsion to serve.]

Defn: A kind of earnest money; loan; -- specifically, money advanced
for some public service, as in enlistment. Burke.
The clearing of their imprests for what little of their debts they
have received. Pepys.

IMPREVALENCE; IMPREVALENCY
Im*prev"a*lence, Im*prev"a*len*cy, n.

Defn: Want of prevalence. [Obs.]

IMPREVENTABILITY
Im`pre*vent`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being impreventable. [R.]

IMPREVENTABLE
Im`pre*vent"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not preventable; invitable.

IMPRIMATUR
Im`pri*ma"tur, n. Etym: [L., let it be printed.] (Law)

Defn: A license to print or publish a book, paper, etc.; also, in
countries subjected to the censorship of the press, approval of that
which is published.

IMPRIMERY
Im*prim"er*y, n. Etym: [F. imprimerie, fr. imprimer to imprint.]
[Obs.]
(a) A print; impression.
(b) A printing establishment.
(c) The art of printing.

IMPRIMING
Im*prim"ing, n.

Defn: A begining. [Obs.] "Their springings and imprimings." Sir H.
Wotton.

IMPRIMIS
Im*pri"mis, adv. Etym: [L., for in primis among the first, chiefly;
in in + primus first.]

Defn: In the first place; first in order.

IMPRINT
Im*print", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imptrinted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Imprinting.] Etym: [OE. emprenten, F. empreint, p. p. of empreindre
to imprint, fr. L. imprimere to impres, imprint. See 1st In-, Print,
and cf. Impress.]

1. To impress; to mark by pressure; to indent; to stamp.
And sees his num'rous herds imprint her sands. Prior.

2. To stamp or mark, as letters on paper, by means of type, plates,
stamps, or the like; to print the mark (figures, letters, etc., upon
something).
Nature imprints upon whate'er we see, That has a heart and life in
it, "Be free." Cowper.

3. To fix indelibly or permanently, as in the mind or memory; to
impress.
Ideas of those two different things distinctly imprinted on his mind.
Locke.

IMPRINT
Im"print, n. Etym: [Cf. F. empreinte impress, stamp. See Imprint, v.
t.]

Defn: Whatever is impressed or imprinted; the impress or mark left by
something; specifically, the name of the printer or publisher
(usually) with the time and place of issue, in the title-page of a
book, or on any printed sheet. "That imprint of their hands." Buckle.

IMPRISON
Im*pris"on, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imprisoned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Imprisoning.] Etym: [OE. enprisonen, OF. enprisoner, F. emprisonner;
pref. en- (L. in) + F. & OF. prison. See Prison.]

1. To put in prison or jail; To arrest and detain in custody; to
confine.
He imprisoned was in chains remediles. Spenser.

2. To limit, restrain, or confine in any way.
Try to imprison the resistless wind. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To incarcerate; confine; immure.

IMPRISONER
Im*pris"on*er, n.

Defn: One who imprisons.

IMPRISONMENT
Im*pris"on ment, n. Etym: [OE. enprisonment; F. emprisonnement.]

Defn: The act of imprisoning, or the state of being imprisoned;
confinement; restraint.
His sinews waxen weak and raw Through long imprisonment and hard
constraint. Spenser.
Every confinement of the person is an imprisonment, whether it be in
a common prison, or in a private house, or even by foreibly detaining
one in the public streets. Blackstone.
False imprisonment. (Law) See under False.

Syn.
 -- Incarceration; custody; confinement; durance; restraint.

IMPROBABILITY
Im*prob`a*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Improbabilities. Etym: [Cf. F.
improbabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being improbable; unlikelihood; also,
that which is improbable; an improbable event or result.

IMPROBABLE
Im*prob"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. improbabilis; pref. im- not + probabilis
probable: cf. F. improbable. See Probable.]

Defn: Not probable; unlikely to be true; not to be expected under the
circumstances or in the usual course of events; as, an improbable
story or event.
He . . . sent to Elutherius, then bishop of Rome, an improbable
letter, as some of the contents discover. Milton.
-- Im*prob"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Im*prob"a*bly, adv.

IMPROBATE
Im"pro*bate, v. t. Etym: [L. improbatus, p. p. of improbare to
disapprove; pref. im- not + probare to approve.]

Defn: To disapprove of; to disallow. [Obs.]

IMPROBATION
Im`pro*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. improbatio.]

1. The act of disapproving; disapprobation.

2. (Scots Law)

Defn: The act by which falsehood and forgery are proved; an action
brought for the purpose of having some instrument declared false or
forged. Bell.

IMPROBATIVE; IMPROBATORY
Im"pro*ba*tive, Im"pro*ba`to*ry, a.

Defn: Implying, or tending to, improbation.

IMPROBITY
Im*prob"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. improbitas; pref. im- not + probitas
probity: cf. F. improbité.]

Defn: Lack of probity; want of integrity or rectitude; dishonesty.
Persons . . . cast out for notorious improbity. Hooker.

IMPROFICIENCE; IMPROFICIENCY
Im`pro*fi"cience, Im`pro*fi"cien*cy, n.

Defn: Want of proficiency. [R.] Bacon.

IMPROFITABLE
Im*prof"it*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + profitable: cf. F.
improfitable.]

Defn: Unprofitable. [Obs.]

IMPROGRESSIVE
Im`pro*gress"ive, a.

Defn: Not progressive. De Quincey.
 -- Im"pro*gress"ive*ly, adv.

IMPROLIFIC
Im`pro*lif"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + prolific: cf. F.
improlifique.]

Defn: Not prolific. [Obs.] E. Waterhouse.

IMPROLIFICATE
Im`pro*lif"ic*ate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. im- in + prolificate.]

Defn: To impregnate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

IMPROMPT
Im*prompt", a.

Defn: Not ready. [R.] Sterne.

IMPROMPTU
Im*promp"tu, adv. or a. Etym: [F. impromptu, fr. L. in promptu in
readiness, at hand; in in + promptus visibility, readiness, from
promptus visible, ready. See Prompt.]

Defn: Offhand; without previous study; extemporaneous; extempore; as,
an impromptu verse.

IMPROMPTU
Im*promp"tu, n.

1. Something made or done offhand, at the moment, or without previous
study; an extemporaneous composition, address, or remark.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A piece composed or played at first thought; a composition in
the style of an extempore piece.

IMPROPER
Im*prop"er, a. Etym: [F. impropre, L. improprius; pref. im- not +
proprius proper. See Proper.]

1. Not proper; not suitable; not fitted to the circumstances, design,
or end; unfit; not becoming; incongruous; inappropriate; indecent;
as, an improper medicine; improper thought, behavior, language,
dress.
Follow'd his enemy king, and did him service, Improper for a slave.
Shak.
And to their proper operation still, Ascribe all Good; to their
improper, Ill. Pope.

2. Not peculiar or appropriate to individuals; general; common.
[Obs.]
Not to be adorned with any art but such improper ones as nature is
said to bestow, as singing and poetry. J. Fletcher.

3. Not according to facts; inaccurate; erroneous. Improper diphthong.
See under Diphthong.
 -- Improper feud, an originalfeud, not earned by military service.
Mozley & W.
 -- Improper fraction. See under Fraction.

IMPROPER
Im*prop"er, v. t.

Defn: To appropriate; to limit. [Obs.]
He would in like manner improper and inclose the sunbeams to comfort
the rich and not the poor. Jewel.

IMPROPERATION
Im*prop`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. improperare, improperatum, to taunt.]

Defn: The act of upbraiding or taunting; a reproach; a taunt. [Obs.]
Improperatios and terms of scurrility. Sir T. Browne

IMPROPERIA
Im`pro*pe"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [L., reproaches.] (Mus.)

Defn: A series of antiphons and responses, expressing the sorrowful
remonstrance of our Lord with his people; -- sung on the morning of
the Good Friday in place of the usual daily Mass of the Roman ritual.
Grove.

IMPROPERLY
Im*prop"er*ly, adv.

Defn: In an improper manner; not properly; unsuitably; unbecomingly.

IMPROPERTY
Im*prop"er*ty, n.

Defn: Impropriety. [Obs.]

IMPROPITIOUS
Im`pro*pi"tious, a.

Defn: Unpropitious; unfavorable. [Obs.] "Dreams were impropitious."
Sir H. Wotton.

IMPROPORTIONABLE
Im`pro*por"tion*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not proportionable. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

IMPROPORTIONATE
Im`pro*por"tion*ate, a.

Defn: Not proportionate. [Obs.]

IMPROPRIATE
Im*pro"pri*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impropriated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impropriating.] Etym: [Pref. im- in + L. propriatus, p. p. of
propriare to appropriate. See Appropriate.]

1. To appropriate to one's self; to assume. [Obs.]
To impropriate the thanks to himself. Bacon.

2. (Eng. Eccl. Law)

Defn: To place the profits of (ecclesiastical property) in the hands
of a layman for care and disbursement.

IMPROPRIATE
Im*pro"pri*ate, v. i.

Defn: To become an impropriator. [R.]

IMPROPRIATE
Im*pro"pri*ate, a. (Eng. Eccl. Law)

Defn: Put into the hands of a layman; impropriated.

IMPROPRIATION
Im*pro`pri*a"tion, n.

1. The act of impropriating; as, the impropriation of property or
tithes; also, that which is impropriated.

2. (Eng. Eccl. Law)
(a) The act of putting an ecclesiastical benefice in the hands of a
layman, or lay corporation.
(b) A benefice in the hands of a layman, or of a lay corporation.

IMPROPRIATOR
Im*pro"pri*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who impropriates; specifically, a layman in possession of
church property.

IMPROPRIATRIX
Im*pro`pri*a"trix, n.; pl. E. -trixes, L. -trices (.

Defn: A female impropriator.

IMPROPRIETY
Im`pro*pri"e*ty, n.; pl. Improprieties. Etym: [L. improprietas; cf.
F. impropriété. See Improper.]

1. The quality of being improper; unfitness or unsuitableness to
character, time place, or circumstances; as, improperiety of behavior
or manners.

2. That which is improper; an unsuitable or improper act, or an
inaccurate use of language.
But every language has likewise its improprieties and absurdities.
Johnson.
Many gross improprieties, however authorized by practice, ought to be
discarded. Swift.

IMPROSPERITY
Im`pros*per"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. improspérité.]

Defn: Want of prosperity. [Obs.]

IMPROSPEROUS
Im*pros"per*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + prosperous: cf. F.
improspère, L. improsper.]

Defn: Not prosperous. [Obs.] Dryden.
 -- Im*pros"per*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Im*pros"per*ous*ness, n.
[Obs.]

IMPROVABILITY
Im*prov`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being improvable; improvableness.

IMPROVABLE
Im*prov"a*ble, a. Etym: [From Improve.]

1. Capable of being improved; susceptible of improvement; admitting
of being made better; capable of cultivation, or of being advanced in
good qualities.
Man is accommodated with moral principles, improvable by the exercise
of his faculties. Sir M. Hale.
I have a fine spread of improvable lands. Addison.

2. Capable of being used to advantage; profitable; serviceable;
advantageous.
The essays of weaker heads afford improvable hints to better. Sir T.
Browne.
-- Im*pro"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Im*prov"a*bly, adv.

IMPROVE
Im*prove", v. t. Etym: [Pref. im- not + prove: cf. L. improbare, F.
improuver.]

1. To disprove or make void; to refute. [Obs.]
Neither can any of them make so strong a reason which another can not
improve. Tyndale.

2. To disapprove; to find fault with; to reprove; to censure; as, to
improve negligence. [Obs.] Chapman.
When he rehearsed his preachings and his doing unto the high
apostles, they could improve nothing. Tyndale.

IMPROVE
Im*prove", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Improved; p. pr. & vb. n. Improving.]
Etym: [Pref. in- in + prove, in approve. See Approve, Prove.]

1. To make better; to increase the value or good qualities of; to
ameliorate by care or cultivation; as, to improve land. Donne.
I love not to improve the honor of the living by impairing that of
the dead. Denham.

2. To use or employ to good purpose; to make productive; to turn to
profitable account; to utilize; as, to improve one's time; to improve
his means. Shak.
We shall especially honor God by improving diligently the talents
which God hath committed to us. Barrow.
A hint that I do not remember to have seen opened and improved.
Addison.
The court seldom fails to improve the oppotunity. Blackstone.
How doth the little busy bee Improve each shining hour. I. Watts.
Those moments were diligently improved. Gibbon.
True policy, as well as good faith, in my opinion, binds us to
improve the occasion. Washington.

3. To advance or increase by use; to augment or add to; -- said with
reference to what is bad. [R.]
We all have, I fear, . . . not a little improved the wretched
inheritance of our ancestors. Bp. Porteus.

Syn.
 -- To better; meliorate; ameliorate; advance; heighten; mend;
correct; recify; amend; reform.

IMPROVE
Im*prove", v. i.

1. To grow better; to advance or make progress in what is desirable;
to make or show improvement; as, to improve in health.
We take care to improve in our frugality and diligence. Atterbury.

2. To advance or progress in bad qualities; to grow worse. "Domitain
improved in cruelty." Milner.

3. To increase; to be enhanced; to rise in value; as, the price of
cotton improves. To improve on or upon, to make useful additions or
amendments to, or changes in; to bring nearer to perfection; as, to
improve on the mode of tillage.

IMPROVEMENT
Im*prove"ment, n.

1. The act of improving; advancement or growth; promotion in
desirable qualities; progress toward what is better; melioration; as,
the improvement of the mind, of land, roads, etc.
I look upon your city as the best place of improvement. South.
Exercise is the chief source of improvement in all our faculties.
Blair.

2. The act of making profitable use or applicaton of anything, or the
state of being profitably employed; a turning to good account;
practical application, as of a doctrine, principle, or theory, stated
in a discourse. "A good improvement of his reason." S. Clarke.
I shall make some improvement of this doctrine. Tillotson.

3. The state of being improved; betterment; advance; also, that which
is improved; as, the new edition is an improvement on the old.
The parts of Sinon, Camilla, and some few others, are improvements on
the Greek poet. Addison.

4. Increase; growth; progress; advance.
There is a design of publishing the history of architecture, with its
several improvements and decays. Addison.
Those vices which more particularly receive improvement by
prosperity. South.

5. pl.

Defn: Valuable additions or betterments, as buildings, clearings,
drains, fences, etc., on premises.

6. (Patent Laws)

Defn: A useful addition to, or modification of, a machine,
manufacture, or composition. Kent.

IMPROVER
Im*prov"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, improves.

IMPROVIDED
Im`pro*vid"ed, a.

Defn: Unforeseen; unexpected; not provided against; unprepared.
[Obs.]
All improvided for dread of death. E. Hall.

IMPROVIDENCE
Im*prov"i*dence, n. Etym: [L. improvidentia; OF. improvidence. Cf.
Imprudence.]

Defn: The quality of being improvident; want of foresight or thrift.
The improvidence of my neighbor must not make me inhuman. L'Estrange.

IMPROVIDENT
Im*prov"i*dent, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + provident: cf. L.
improvidus. See Provident, and cf. Imprudent.]

Defn: Not provident; wanting foresight or forethought; not foreseeing
or providing for the future; negligent; thoughtless; as, an
improvident man.
Improvident soldires! had your watch been good, This sudden mischief
never could have fallen. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Inconsiderable; negligent; careless; shiftless; prodigal;
wasteful.

IMPROVIDENTIALLY
Im*prov`i*den"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: Improvidently. [R.]

IMPROVIDENTLY
Im*prov"i*dent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a improvident manner. "Improvidently rash." Drayton.

IMPROVING
Im*prov"ing, a.

Defn: Tending to improve, beneficial; growing better.
 -- Im*prov"ing*ly, adv. Improving lease (Scots Law), an extend lease
to induce the tenant to make improvements on the premises.

IMPROVISATE
Im*prov"i*sate, a. Etym: [See Improvise.]

Defn: Unpremeditated; impromptu; extempore. [R.]

IMPROVISATE
Im*prov"i*sate, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Improvisated; p. pr. & vb.
n. Improvisating.]

Defn: To improvise; to extemporize.

IMPROVISATION
Im*prov`i*sa"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. improvisation.]

1. The act or art of composing and rendering music, poetry, and the
like, extemporaneously; as, improvisation on the organ.

2. That which is improvised; an impromptu.

IMPROVISATIZE
Im`pro*vis"a*tize, v. t. & i.

Defn: Same as Improvisate.

IMPROVISATOR
Im*prov"i*sa`tor, n.

Defn: An improviser, or improvvisatore.

IMPROVISATORE
Im`pro*vi`sa*to"re, n.

Defn: See Improvvisatore.

IMPROVISATORIAL; IMPROVISATORY
Im*prov`i*sa*to"ri*al, Im*prov"i*sa*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to improvisation or extemporaneous
composition.

IMPROVISATRICE
Im`pro*vi`sa*tri"ce, n.

Defn: See Improvvisatrice.

IMPROVISE
Im`pro*vise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Improvised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Improvising.] Etym: [F. improviser, it. improvvisare, fr. improvviso
unprovided, sudden, extempore, L. improvisus; pref. im- not +
provisus foreseen, provided. See Proviso.]

1. To compose, recite, or sing extemporaneously, especially in verse;
to extemporize; also, to play upon an instrument, or to act,
extemporaneously.

2. To bring about, arrange, or make, on a sudden, or without previous
preparation.
Charles attempted to improvise a peace. Motley.

3. To invent, or provide, offhand, or on the spur of the moment; as,
he improvised a hammer out of a stone.

IMPROVISE
Im`pro*vise", v. i.

Defn: To produce or render extemporaneous compositions, especially in
verse or in music, without previous preparation; hence, to do
anything offhand.

IMPROVISER
Im`pro*vis"er, n.

Defn: One who improvises.

IMPROVISION
Im`pro*vi"sion, n. Etym: [Pref. im- not + provision.]

Defn: Improvidence. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

IMPROVISO
Im`pro*vi"so, a. Etym: [L. improvisus unforeseen; cf. It.
improvviso.]

Defn: Not prepared or mediated beforehand; extemporaneous. [Obs.]
Jonhson.

IMPROVVISATORE
Im`prov*vi`sa*to"re, n.; pl. Improvvisatori. Etym: [It. See
Improvise.]

Defn: One who composes and sings or recites rhymes and short poems
extemporaneously. [Written also improvisatore.]

IMPROVVISATRICE
Im`prov*vi`sa*tri"ce, n.; pl. Improvvisatrici. Etym: [It. See
Improvise.]

Defn: A female improvvisatore. [Written also improvisatrice.]

IMPRUDENCE
Im*pru"dence, n. Etym: [L. imprudentia: cf. F. imprudence. Cf.
Improvidence.]

Defn: The quality or state of being imprudent; want to caution,
circumspection, or a due regard to consequences; indiscretion;
inconsideration; reshness; also, an imprudent act; as, he was guilty
of an imprudence.
His serenity was interrupted, perhaps, by his own imprudence. Mickle.

IMPRUDENT
Im*pru"dent, a. Etym: [L. imprudens; pref. im- not + prudens prudent:
cf. F. imprudent. See Prudent, and cf. Improvident.]

Defn: Not prudent; wanting in prudence or discretion; indiscreet;
injudicious; not attentive to consequence; improper.
 -- Im*pru"dent*ly, adv.
Her majesty took a great dislike at the imprudent behavior of many of
the ministers and readers. Strype.

Syn.
 -- Indiscreet; injudicious; incautious; ill-advised; unwise;
heedless; careless; rash; negligent.

IMPUBERAL
Im*pu"ber*al, a.

Defn: Not having arrived at puberty; immature.
In impuberal animals the cerebellum is, in proportion to the brain
proper, greatly less than in adults. Sir W. Hamilton.

IMPUBERTY
Im*pu"ber*ty, n.

Defn: The condition of not having reached puberty, or the age of
ability to reproduce one's species; want of age at which the marriage
contract can be legally entered into.

IMPUDENCE
Im"pu*dence, n. Etym: [L. impudentia: cf. F. impudence. See
Impudent.]

Defn: The quality of being impudent; assurance, accompanied with a
disregard of the presence or opinions of others; shamelessness;
forwardness; want of modesty.
Clear truths that their own evidence forces us to admit, or common
experience makes it impudence to deny. Locke.
Where pride and impudence (in fashion knit) Usurp the chair of wit.
B. Jonson.

Syn.
 -- Shamelessness; audacity; insolence; effrontery; sauciness;
impertinence; pertness; rudeness.
 -- Impudence, Effrontery, Sauciness. Impudence refers more
especially to the feelings as manifested in action. Effrontery
applies to some gross and public exhibition of shamelessness.
Sauciness refers to a sudden pert outbreak of impudence, especially
from an inferior. Impudence is an unblushing kind of impertinence,
and may be manifested in words, tones, gestures, looks, etc.
Effrontery rises still higher, and shows a total or shameless
disregard of duty or decorum under the circumstances of the case.
Sauciness discovers itself toward particular individuals, in certain
relations; as in the case of servants who are saucy to their masters,
or children who are saucy to their teachers. See Impertinent, and
Insolent.

IMPUDENCY
Im"pu*den*cy, n.

Defn: Impudence. [Obs.] Burton.
Audacious without impudency. Shak.

IMPUDENT
Im"pu*dent, a. Etym: [L. impudens, -entis; pref. im- not + pudens
ashamed, modest, p. pr. of pudere to feel shame: cf. F. impudent.]

Defn: Bold, with contempt or disregard; unblushingly forward;
impertinent; wanting modesty; shameless; saucy.
More than impudent sauciness. Shak.
When we behold an angel, not to fear Is to be impudent. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Shameless; audacious; brazen; bold-faced; pert; immodest; rude;
saucy; impertinent; insolent.

IMPUDENTLY
Im"pu*dent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an impudent manner; with unbecoming assurance; shamelessly.
At once assail With open mouths, and impudently rail. Sandys.

IMPUDICITY
Im`pu*dic"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. impudicus immodest; im- not + pudicus
shamefaced, modest: cf. F. impudicité, L. impudicitia.]

Defn: Immodesty. Sheldon.

IMPUGN
Im*pugn", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impugned; p. pr. & vb. n. Impugning.]
Etym: [OE. impugnen, F. impugner, fr. L. impugnare; in on, against +
pugnare to flight. See Pugnacious.]

Defn: To attack by words or arguments; to contradict; to assail; to
call in question; to make insinuations against; to gainsay; to
oppose.
The truth hereof I will net rashly pugn, or overboldly affirm.
Peacham.

IMPUGNABLE
Im*pugn"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being impugned; that may be gainsaid.

IMPUGNATION
Im`pug*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. impugnatio: cf. OF. impugnation.]

Defn: Act of impugning; opposition; attack. [Obs.]
A perpetual impugnation and self-conflict. Bp. Hall.

IMPUGNER
Im*pugn"er, n.

Defn: One who impugns.

IMPUGNMENT
Im*pugn"ment, n.

Defn: The act of impugning, or the state of being impugned. Ed. Rev.

IMPUISSANCE
Im*pu"is*sance, n. Etym: [Cf. F. impuissance.]

Defn: Lack of power; inability. Bacon.
Their own impuissance and weakness. Holland.

IMPUISSANT
Im*pu"is*sant, a. Etym: [F., fr. pref. im- not + puissant. See
Puissant.]

Defn: Weak; impotent; feeble.

IMPULSE
Im"pulse, n. Etym: [L. impulsus, fr. impellere. See Impel.]

1. The act of impelling, or driving onward with sudden force;
impulsion; especially, force so communicated as to produced motion
suddenly, or immediately.
All spontaneous animal motion is performed by mechanical impulse. S.
Clarke.

2. The effect of an impelling force; motion produced by a sudden or
momentary force.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: The action of a force during a very small interval of time; the
effect of such action; as, the impulse of a sudden blow upon a hard
elastic body.

4. A mental force which simply and directly urges to action; hasty
inclination; sudden motive; momentary or transient influence of
appetite or passion; propension; incitement; as, a man of good
impulses; passion often gives a violent impulse to the will.
These were my natural impulses for the undertaking. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Force; incentive; influence; motive; feeling; incitement;
instigation.

IMPULSE
Im*pulse", v. t. Etym: [See Impel.]

Defn: To impel; to incite. [Obs.] Pope.

IMPULSION
Im*pul"sion, n. Etym: [L. impulsio: cf. F. impulsion. See Impel.]

1. The act of impelling or driving onward, or the state of being
impelled; the sudden or momentary agency of a body in motion on
another body; also, the impelling force, or impulse. "The impulsion
of the air." Bacon.

2. Influence acting unexpectedly or temporarily on the mind; sudden
motive or influence; impulse. "The impulsion of conscience."
Clarendon. "Divine impulsion prompting." Milton.

IMPULSIVE
Im*pul"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. impulsif.]

1. Having the power of driving or impelling; giving an impulse;
moving; impellent.
Poor men! poor papers! We and they Do some impulsive force obey.
Prior.

2. Actuated by impulse or by transient feelings.
My heart, impulsive and wayward. Longfellow.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: Acting momentarily, or by impulse; not continuous; -- said of
forces.

IMPULSIVE
Im*pul"sive, n.

Defn: That which impels or gives an impulse; an impelling agent. Sir
W. Wotton.

IMPULSIVELY
Im*pul"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an impulsive manner.

IMPULSIVENESS
Im*pul"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being impulsive.

IMPULSOR
Im*pul"sor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who, or that which, impels; an inciter. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

IMPUNCTATE
Im*punc"tate, a.

Defn: Not punctuate or dotted.

IMPUNCTUAL
Im*punc"tu*al, a. Etym: [Pref. im- not + punctual: cf. F.
imponctuel.]

Defn: Not punctual. [R.]

IMPUNCTUALITY
Im*punc`tu*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: Neglect of, or failure in, punctuality. [R.] A. Hamilton.

IMPUNE
Im*pune", a. Etym: [L. impunis.]

Defn: Unpunished. [R.]

IMPUNIBLY
Im*pu"ni*bly, adv.

Defn: Without punishment; with impunity. [Obs.] J. Ellis.

IMPUNITY
Im*pu"ni*ty, n. Etym: [L. impunitas, fr. impunis without punishment;
pref. im- not + poena punishment: cf. F. impunité. See Pain.]

Defn: Exemption or freedom from punishment, harm, or loss.
Heaven, though slow to wrath, Is neimpunity defied. Cowper.
The impunity and also the recompense. Holland.

IMPURATION
Im`pu*ra"tion, n.

Defn: Defilement; obscuration. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

IMPURE
Im*pure", a. Etym: [L. impurus; pref. im- not + purus pure: cf. F.
impur. See Pure.]

1. Not pure; not clean; dirty; foul; filthy; containing something
which is unclean or unwholesome; mixed or impregnated extraneous
substances; adulterated; as, impure water or air; impure drugs, food,
etc.

2. Defiled by sin or guilt; unholy; unhallowed; -- said of persons or
things.

3. Unchaste; lewd; unclean; obscene; as, impure language or ideas.
"Impure desires." Cowper.

4. (Script.)

Defn: Not purified according to the ceremonial law of Moses; unclean.

5. (Language)

Defn: Not accurate; not idiomatic; as, impure Latin; an impure style.

IMPURE
Im*pure", v. t.

Defn: To defile; to pollute. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

IMPURELY
Im*pure"ly, adv.

Defn: In an impure manner.

IMPURENESS
Im*pure"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being impure; impurity. Milton.

IMPURITY
Im*pu"ri*ty, n.; pl. Impurities. Etym: [L. impuritas: cf. F.
impureté.]

1. The condition or quality of being impure in any sense; defilement;
foulness; adulteration.
Profaneness, impurity, or scandal, is not wit. Buckminster.

2. That which is, or which renders anything, impure; foul matter,
action, language, etc.; a foreign ingredient.
Foul impurities reigned among the monkish clergy. Atterbury.

3. (Script.)

Defn: Want of ceremonial purity; defilement.

IMPURPLE
Im*pur"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Impurpled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Impurpling.] Etym: [Pref. im- in + purple. Cf. Empurple.]

Defn: To color or tinge with purple; to make red or reddish; to
purple; as, a field impurpled with blood.
Impurpled with celestial roses, smiled. Milton.
The silken fleece impurpled for the loom. Pope.

IMPUTABILITY
Im*put`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being imputable; imputableness.

IMPUTABLE
Im*put"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. imputable.]

1. That may be imputed; capable of being imputed; chargeable;
ascribable; attributable; referable.
A prince whose political vices, at least, were imputable to mental
incapacity. Prescott.

2. Accusable; culpable. [R.]
The fault lies at his door, and she is no wise imputable. Ayliffe.

IMPUTABLENESS
Im*put"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being imputable.

IMPUTABLY
Im*put"a*bly, adv.

Defn: By imputation.

IMPUTATION
Im`pu*ta"tion, Etym: [L. imputatio an account, a charge: cf. F.
imputation.]

1. The act of imputing or charging; attribution; ascription; also,
anything imputed or charged.
Shylock. Antonio is a good man. Bassanio. Have you heard any
imputation to the contrary Shak.
If I had a suit to Master Shallow, I would humor his men with the
imputation of being near their master. Shak.

2. Charge or attribution of evil; censure; reproach; insinuation.
Let us be careful to guard ourselves against these groundless
imputation of our enemies. Addison.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: A setting of something to the account of; the attribution of
personal guilt or personal righteousness of another; as, the
imputation of the sin of Adam, or the righteousness of Christ.

4. Opinion; intimation; hint.

IMPUTATIVE
Im*put"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. imputativus: cf. F. imputatif.]

Defn: Transferred by imputation; that may be imputed.
 -- Im*put"a*tive*ly, adv.
Actual righteousness as well as imputative. Bp. Warburton.

IMPUTE
Im*pute", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Imputed; p. pr. & vb. n. Imputing.]
Etym: [F. imputer, L. imputare to bring into the reckoning, charge,
impute; pref. im- in + putare to reckon, think. See Putative.]

1. To charge; to ascribe; to attribute; to set to the account of; to
charge to one as the author, responsible originator, or possessor; --
generally in a bad sense.
Nor you, ye proud, impute to these the fault, If memory o'er their
tomb no trophies raise. Gray.
One vice of a darker shade was imputed to him -- envy. Macaulay.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: To adjudge as one's own (the sin or righteousness) of another;
as, the righteousness of Christ is imputed to us.
It was imputed to him for righteousness. Rom. iv. 22.
They merit Imputed shall absolve them who renounce Their own, both
righteous and unrighteous deeds. Milton.

3. To take account of; to consider; to regard. [R.]
If we impute this last humiliation as the cause of his death. Gibbon.

Syn.
 -- To ascribe; attribute; charge; reckon; consider; imply;
insinuate; refer. See Ascribe.

IMPUTER
Im*put"er, n.

Defn: One who imputes.

IMPUTRESCIBLE
Im`pu*tres"ci*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. im- + putrescible: cf. F.
imputrescible.]

Defn: Not putrescible.

IMRIGH
Im"righ, n. Etym: [Scot.; Gael. chicken soup.]

Defn: A peculiar strong soup or broth, made in Scotland. [Written
also imrich.]

IN-
In-. Etym: [See In, prep. Cf. Em-, En-.]

Defn: A prefix from Eng. prep. in, also from Lat. prep. in, meaning
in, into, on, among; as, inbred, inborn, inroad; incline, inject,
intrude. In words from the Latin, in- regularly becomes il- before l,
ir- before r, and im- before a labial; as, illusion, irruption,
imblue, immigrate, impart. In- is sometimes used with an simple
intensive force.

IN-
In-. Etym: [L. in-; akin to E. un-. See Un-.]

Defn: An inseparable prefix, or particle, meaning not, non-, un- as,
inactive, incapable, inapt. In- regularly becomes il- before l, ir-
before r, and im- before a labial.

-IN
-in.

Defn: A suffix. See the Note under -ine.

IN
In, prep. Etym: [AS. in; akin to D. & G. in, Icel. i, Sw. & Dan. i,
OIr. & L. in, Gr. In-, Inn.]

Defn: The specific signification of in is situation or place with
respect to surrounding, environment, encompassment, etc. It is used
with verbs signifying being, resting, or moving within limits, or
within circumstances or conditions of any kind conceived of as
limiting, confining, or investing, either wholly or in part. In its
different applications, it approaches some of the meanings of, and
sometimes is interchangeable with, within, into, on, at, of, and
among. It is used: --

1. With reference to space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he
traveled in Italy; castles in the air.
The babe lying in a manger. Luke ii. 16.
Thy sun sets weeping in the lowly west. Shak.
Situated in the forty-first degree of latitude. Gibbon.
Matter for censure in every page. Macaulay.

2. With reference to circumstances or conditions; as, he is in
difficulties; she stood in a blaze of light. "Fettered in amorous
chains." Shak.
Wrapt in sweet sounds, as in bright veils. Shelley.

3. With reference to a whole which includes or comprises the part
spoken of; as, the first in his family; the first regiment in the
army.
Nine in ten of those who enter the ministry. Swift.

4. With reference to physical surrounding, personal states, etc.,
abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the room is in darkness; to
live in fear.
When shall we three meet again, In thunder, lightning, or in rain
Shak.

5. With reference to character, reach, scope, or influence considered
as establishing a limitation; as, to be in one's favor. "In sight of
God's high throne." Milton.
Sounds inharmonious in themselves, and harsh. Cowper.

6. With reference to movement or tendency toward a certain limit or
environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the
ground; to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in God.
He would not plunge his brother in despair. Addison.
She had no jewels to deposit in their caskets. Fielding.

7. With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in
the last century; in all my life. In as much as, or Inasmuch as, in
the degree that; in like manner as; in consideration that; because
that; since. See Synonym of Because, and cf. For as much as, under
For, prep.
 -- In that, because; for the reason that. "Some things they do in
that they are men . . . ; some things in that they are men misled and
blinded with error." Hooker.
 -- In the name of, in behalf of; on the part of; by authority; as,
it was done in the name of the people; -- often used in invocation,
swearing, praying, and the like.
 -- To be in for it. (a) To be in favor of a thing; to be committed
to a course. (b) To be unable to escape from a danger, penalty, etc.
[Colloq.] -- To be (or keep) in with. (a) To be close or near; as, to
keep a ship in with the land. (b) To be on terms of friendship,
familiarity, or intimacy with; to secure and retain the favor of.
[Colloq.]

Syn.
 -- Into; within; on; at. See At.

IN
In, adv.

1. Not out; within; inside. In, the preposition, becomes an adverb by
omission of its object, leaving it as the representative of an
adverbial phrase, the context indicating what the omitted object is;
as, he takes in the situation (i. e., he comprehends it in his mind);
the Republicans were in (i. e., in office); in at one ear and out at
the other (i. e., in or into the head); his side was in (i. e., in
the turn at the bat); he came in (i. e., into the house).
Their vacation . . . falls in so pat with ours. Lamb.

Note: The sails of a vessel are said, in nautical language, to be in
when they are furled, or when stowed. In certain cases in has an
adjectival sense; as, the in train (i. e., the incoming train);
compare up grade, down grade, undertow, afterthought, etc.

2. (Law)

Defn: With privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding,
possession, or seisin; as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the
seisin of her husband. Burrill. In and in breeding. See under
Breeding.
 -- In and out (Naut.), through and through; -- said of a through
bolt in a ship's side. Knight.
 -- To be in, to be at home; as, Mrs. A. is in.
 -- To come in. See under Come.

IN
In, n.

Note: [Usually in the plural.]

1. One who is in office; -- the opposite of Ant: out.

2. A reëntrant angle; a nook or corner. Ins and outs, nooks and
corners; twists and turns.
All the ins and outs of this neighborhood. D. Jerrold.

IN
In, v. t.

Defn: To inclose; to take in; to harvest. [Obs.]
He that ears my land spares my team and gives me leave to in the
crop. Shak.

INABILITY
In`a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + ability: cf. F. inhabileté.
See Able, and cf. Unable.]

Defn: The quality or state of being unable; lack of ability; want of
sufficient power, strength, resources, or capacity.
It is not from an inability to discover what they ought to do, that
men err in practice. Blair.

Syn.
 -- Impotence; incapacity; incompetence; weakness; powerlessness;
incapability. See Disability.

INABLE
In*a"ble, v. t.

Defn: See Enable.

INABLEMENT
In*a"ble*ment, n.

Defn: See Enablement. [Obs.]

INABSTINENCE
In*ab"sti*nence, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + abstinence: cf. F.
inabstinence.]

Defn: Want of abstinence; indulgence. [Obs.] "The inabstinence of
Eve." Milton.

INABSTRACTED
In`ab*stract"ed, a.

Defn: Not abstracted.

INABUSIVELY
In`a*bu"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: Without abuse.

INACCESSIBILITY
In`ac*cess`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inaccessibilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being inaccessible; inaccessibleness.
"The inaccessibility of the precipice." Bp. Butler.

INACCESSIBLE
In`ac*cess"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. inaccessibilis: cf. F. inaccessible.
See In- not, and Accessible.]

Defn: Not accessible; not to be reached, obtained, or approached; as,
an inaccessible rock, fortress, document, prince, etc.
 -- In`ac*cess"i*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`ac*cess"i*bly, adv.

INACCORDANT
In`ac*cord"ant, a.

Defn: Not accordant; discordant.

INACCURACY
In*ac"cu*ra*cy, n.; pl. Inaccuracies (.

1. The quality of being inaccurate; want of accuracy or exactness.

2. That which is inaccurate or incorrect; mistake; fault; defect;
error; as, in inaccuracy in speech, copying, calculation, etc.

INACCURATE
In*ac"cu*rate, a.

Defn: Not accurate; not according to truth; inexact; incorrect;
erroneous; as, in inaccurate man, narration, copy, judgment,
calculation, etc.
The expression is plainly inaccurate. Bp. Hurd.

Syn.
 -- Inexact; incorrect; erroneous; faulty; imperfect; incomplete;
defective.

INACCURATELY
In*ac"cu*rate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inaccurate manner; incorrectly; inexactly.

INACQUAINTANCE
In`ac*quaint"ance, a.

Defn: Want of acquaintance. Good.

INACQUIESCENT
In*ac`qui*es"cent, a.

Defn: Not acquiescent or acquiescing.

INACTION
In*ac"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in. not + action: cf. inaction.]

Defn: Want of action or activity; forbearance from labor; idleness;
rest; inertness. Berkeley.

INACTIVE
In*ac"tive, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + active: cf. F. inactif.]

1. Not active; having no power to move; that does not or can not
produce results; inert; as, matter is, of itself, inactive.

2. Not disposed to action or effort; not diligent or industrious; not
busy; idle; as, an inactive officer.

3. (Chem. & Opt.)

Defn: Not active; inert; esp., not exhibiting any action or activity
on polarized light; optically neutral; -- said of isomeric forms of
certain substances, in distinction from other forms which are
optically active; as, racemic acid is an inactive tartaric acid.

Syn.
 -- Inert; dull; sluggish; idle; indolent; slothful; lazy. See Inert.

INACTIVELY
In*ac"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inactive manner. Locke.

INACTIVITY
In`ac*tiv"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inactivité.]

1. The state or quality of being inactive; inertness; as, the
inactivity of matter.

2. Idleness; habitual indisposition to action or exertion; want of
energy; sluggishness.
The gloomy inactivity of despair. Cook.

INACTOSE
In*ac"tose, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A variety of sugar, found in certain plants. It is optically
inactive.

INACTUATE
In*ac"tu*ate, v. t.

Defn: To put in action. [Obs.]

INACTUATION
In*ac`tu*a"tion, n.

Defn: Operation. [Obs.]

INADAPTATION
In*ad`ap*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Want of adaptation; unsuitableness.

INADEQUACY
In*ad"e*qua*cy, n. Etym: [From Inadequate.]

Defn: The quality or state of being inadequate or insufficient;
defectiveness; insufficiency; inadequateness.
The inadequacy and consequent inefficacy of the alleged causes. Dr.
T. Dwight.

INADEQUATE
In*ad"e*quate, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + adequate: cf. F. inadéquat.]

Defn: Not adequate; unequal to the purpose; insufficient; deficient;
as, inadequate resources, power, conceptions, representations, etc.
Dryden.
 -- In*ad"e*quate*ly, adv.
 -- In*ad"e*quate*ness, n.

INADEQUATION
In*ad`e*qua"tion, n.

Defn: Want of exact correspondence. [Obs.] Puller.

INADHERENT
In`ad*her"ent, a.

1. Not adhering.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Free; not connected with the other organs.

INADHESION
In`ad*he"sion, n.

Defn: Want of adhesion.

INADMISSIBILITY
In`ad*mis`si*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inadmissibilité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being inadmissible, or not to be
received.

INADMISSIBLE
In`ad*mis"si*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + admissible: cf. F.
inadmissible.]

Defn: Not admissible; not proper to be admitted, allowed, or
received; as, inadmissible testimony; an inadmissible proposition, or
explanation.
 -- In`ad*mis"si*bly, adv.

INADVERTENCE; INADVERTENCY
In`ad*vert"ence; pl. -ces (, In`ad*vert"en*cy; pl. -cies (, n. Etym:
[Cf. F. inadvertance.]

1. The quality of being inadvertent; lack of heedfulness or
attentiveness; inattention; negligence; as, many mistakes proceed
from inadvertence.
Inadvertency, or want of attendance to the sense and intention of our
prayers. Jer. Taylor.

2. An effect of inattention; a result of carelessness; an oversight,
mistake, or fault from negligence.
The productions of a great genius, with many lapses an
inadvertencies, are infinitely preferable to works of an inferior
kind of author which are scrupulously exact. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Inattention; heedlessness; carelessness; negligence;
thoughtlessness. See Inattention.

INADVERTENT
In`ad*vert"ent, a. Etym: [Cf. F. inadvertant. See 2d In-, and
Advert.]

Defn: Not turning the mind to a matter; heedless; careless;
negligent; inattentive.
An inadvertent step may crush the snail That crawls at evening in the
public path. Cowper.
-- In`ad*vert"ent*ly, adv.

INADVISABLE
In`ad*vis"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not advisable.
 -- In`ad*vis"a*ble*ness, n.

INAFFABILITY
In*af`fa*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inaffabilité.]

Defn: Want of affability or sociability; reticence.

INAFFABLE
In*af"fa*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + affable.]

Defn: Not affable; reserved in social intercourse.

INAFFECTATION
In*af`fec*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + affectation: cf. F.
inaffectation.]

Defn: Freedom from affectation; naturalness. [R.]

INAFFECTED
In`af*fect"ed, a.

Defn: Unaffected. [Obs.] -- In`af*fect"ed*ly, adv. [Obs.]

INAIDABLE
In*aid"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being assisted; helpless. [R.] Shak.

INALIENABILITY
In*al`ien*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inalienable.

INALIENABLE
In*al"ien*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + alienable: cf. F.
inaliénable.]

Defn: Incapable of being alienated, surrendered, or transferred to
another; not alienable; as, in inalienable birthright.

INALIENABLENESS
In*al"ien*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inalienable; inalienability.

INALIENABLY
In*al"ien*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner that forbids alienation; as, rights inalienably
vested.

INALIMENTAL
In*al`i*men"tal, a.

Defn: Affording no aliment or nourishment. [Obs.] Bacon.

INALTERABILITY
In*al`ter*a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inaltérabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being unalterable or unchangeable; permanence.

INALTERABLE
In*al"ter*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + alterable: cf. F.
inaltérable.]

Defn: Not alterable; incapable of being altered or changed;
unalterable.
 -- In*al"ter*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*al"ter*a*bly, adv.

INAMIABLE
In*a"mi*a*ble, a.

Defn: Unamiable. [Obs.] -- In*a"mi*a*ble*ness, n. [Obs.]

INAMISSIBLE
In`a*mis"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. inamissibilis: cf. F. inamissible.]

Defn: Incapable of being lost. [R.] Hammond.
 -- In`a*mis"si*ble*ness, n. [R.]

INAMORATA
In*a`mo*ra"ta, n. Etym: [It. innamorata, fem., innamorato, masc., p.
p. of innamorare to inspire with love. See Enamor.]

Defn: A woman in love; a mistress. "The fair inamorata." Sherburne.

INAMORATE
In*am"o*rate, a.

Defn: Enamored. Chapman.
 -- In*am"o*rate*ly, adv. [R.]

INAMORATO
In*a`mo*ra"to, n.; pl. Inamoratos. Etym: [See Inamorata.]

Defn: A male lover.

INAMOVABLE
In`a*mov"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not amovable or removable. [R.] Palgrave.

IN-AND-IN
In"-and-in", n.

Defn: An old game played with four dice. In signified a doublet, or
two dice alike; in-and-in, either two doubles, or the four dice
alike.

IN AND IN
In and an, a. & adv.

Defn: Applied to breeding from a male and female of the same
parentage. See under Breeding.

INANE
In*ane", a. Etym: [L. inanis.]

Defn: Without contents; empty; void of sense or intelligence;
purposeless; pointless; characterless; useless. "Vague and inane
instincts." I. Taylor.
 -- In*ane"ly, adv.

INANE
In*ane", n.

Defn: That which is void or empty. [R.]
The undistinguishable inane of infinite space. Locke.

INANGULAR
In*an"gu*lar, a.

Defn: Not angular. [Obs.]

INANILOQUENT; INANILOQUOUS
In`a*nil"o*quent, In`a*nil"o*quous, a. Etym: [L. inanis empty + loqui
to speak.]

Defn: Given to talking inanely; loquacious; garrulous. [R.]

INANIMATE
In*an"i*mate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in (or intensively) + animate.]

Defn: To animate. [Obs.] Donne.

INANIMATE
In*an"i*mate, a. Etym: [L. inanimatus; pref. in- not + animatus
animate.]

Defn: Not animate; destitute of life or spirit; lifeless; dead;
inactive; dull; as, stones and earth are inanimate substances.
Grieving, if aught inanimate e'er grieves. Byron.

Syn.
 -- Lifeless; dead; inert; inactive; dull; soulless; spiritless. See
Lifeless.

INANIMATED
In*an"i*ma`ted, a.

Defn: Destitute of life; lacking animation; unanimated. Pope.

INANIMATENESS
In*an"i*mate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inanimate.
The deadness and inanimateness of the subject. W. Montagu.

INANIMATION
In*an`i*ma"tion, n. Etym: [See 2d Inanimate.]

Defn: Want of animation; lifeless; dullness.

INANIMATION
In*an`i*ma"tion, n. Etym: [See 1st Inanimate.]

Defn: Infusion of life or vigor; animation; inspiration. [Obs.]
The inanimation of Christ living and breathing within us. Bp. Hall.

INANITIATE
In`a*ni"ti*ate, v. t.

Defn: To produce inanition in; to exhaust for want of nourishment.
[R.]

INANITIATION
In`a*ni`ti*a"tion, n.

Defn: Inanition. [R.]

INANITION
In`a*ni"tion, n. Etym: [F. inanition, L. inanitio emptiness, fr.
inanire to empty, fr. inanis empty. Cf. Inane.]

Defn: The condition of being inane; emptiness; want of fullness, as
in the vessels of the body; hence, specifically, exhaustion from want
of food, either from partial or complete starvation, or from a
disorder of the digestive apparatus, producing the same result.
Feeble from inanition, inert from weariness. Landor.
Repletion and inanition may both do harm in two contrary extremes.
Burton.

INANITY
In*an"i*ty, n.; pl. Inanities. Etym: [L. inanitas, fr. inanis empty:
cf. F. inanité. See Inane.]

1. Inanition; void space; vacuity; emptiness.

2. Want of seriousness; aimlessness; frivolity.

3. An inane, useless thing or pursuit; a vanity; a silly object; --
chiefly in pl.; as, the inanities of the world.

INANTHERATE
In*an"ther*ate, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Not bearing anthers; -- said of sterile stamens.

IN ANTIS
In an"tis. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)

Defn: Between antæ; -- said of a portico in classical style, where
columns are set between two antæ, forming the angles of the building.
See Anta.

INAPATHY
In*ap"a*thy, n.

Defn: Sensibility; feeling; -- opposed to apathy. [R.]

INAPPEALABLE
In`ap*peal"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not admitting of appeal; not appealable. Coleridge.

INAPPEASABLE
In`ap*peas"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being appeased or satisfied; unappeasable.

INAPPELLABILITY
In`ap*pel`la*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being inappellable; finality.
The inappellability of the councils. Coleridge.

INAPPELLABLE
In`ap*pel"la*ble, a.

Defn: Inappealable; final.

INAPPETENCE; INAPPETENCY
In*ap"pe*tence, In*ap"pe*ten*cy, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + appetence:
cf. F. inappétence.]

Defn: Want of appetency; want of desire.

INAPPLICABILITY
In*ap`pli*ca*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inapplicabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being inapplicable; unfitness; inapplicableness.

INAPPLICABLE
In*ap"pli*ca*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + applicable.]

Defn: Not applicable; incapable of being applied; not adapted; not
suitable; as, the argument is inapplicable to the case. J. S. Mill.

Syn.
 -- Unsuitable; unsuited; unadapted; inappropriate; inapposite;
irrelevant.
 -- In*ap"pli*ca*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*ap"pli*ca*bly, adv.

INAPPLICATION
In*ap`pli*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + application: cf. F.
inapplication.]

Defn: Want of application, attention, or diligence; negligence;
indolence.

INAPPOSITE
In*ap"po*site, a.

Defn: Not apposite; not fit or suitable; not pertinent.
 -- In*ap"po*site*ly, adv.

INAPPRECIABLE
In`ap*pre"ci*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + appreciable: cf. F.
inappréciable.]

Defn: Not appreciable; too small to be perceived; incapable of being
duly valued or estimated. Hallam.

INAPPRECIATION
In`ap*pre"ci*a"tion, n.

Defn: Want of appreciation.

INAPPREHENSIBLE
In*ap`pre*hen"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. inapprehensibilis: cf. F.
inappréhensible.]

Defn: Not apprehensible; unintelligible; inconceivable. Milton.

INAPPREHENSION
In*ap`pre*hen"sion, n.

Defn: Want of apprehension.

INAPPREHENSIVE
In*ap`pre*hen"sive, a.

Defn: Not apprehensive; regardless; unconcerned. Jer. Taylor.

INAPPROACHABLE
In`ap*proach"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not approachable; unapproachable; inaccessible; unequaled.
 -- In`ap*proach"a*bly, adv.

INAPPROPRIATE
In`ap*pro"pri*ate, a.

Defn: Not instrument (to); not appropriate; unbecoming; unsuitable;
not specially fitted; -- followed by to or for.
 -- In`ap*pro"pri*ate*ly, adv.
 -- In`ap*pro"pri*ate*ness, n.

INAPT
In*apt", a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + apt: cf. F. inapte. Cf. Inept.]

Defn: Unapt; not apt; unsuitable; inept.
 -- In*apt"ly, adv.
 -- In*apt"ness, n.

INAPTITUDE
In*apt"i*tude, n. Etym: [In- + aptitude: cf. F. inaptitude. Cf. In.]

Defn: Want of aptitude.

INAQUATE
In*a"quate, a. Etym: [L. inaquatus, p. p. of inaquare to make into
water; pref. in- in + aqua water.]

Defn: Embodied in, or changed into, water. [Obs.] Cranmer.

INAQUATION
In`a*qua"tion, n.

Defn: The state of being inaquate. [Obs.] Bp. Gardiner.

INARABLE
In*ar"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not arable. [R.]

INARCH
In*arch", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inarched; p. pr. & vb. n. Inarching.]

Defn: To graft by uniting, as a scion, to a stock, without separating
either from its root before the union is complete; -- also called to
graft by approach. P. Miler.

INARCHING
In*arch"ing, n.

Defn: A method of ingrafting. See Inarch.

INARTICULATE
In`ar*tic"u*late, a. Etym: [L. inarticulatus; pref. in- not +
articulatus articulate.]

1. Not uttered with articulation or intelligible distinctness, as
speech or words.
Music which is inarticulate poesy. Dryden.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) Not jointed or articulated; having no distinct body segments; as,
an inarticulate worm.
(b) Without a hinge; -- said of an order (Inarticulata or Ecardines)
of brachiopods.

3. Incapable of articulating. [R.]
The poor earl, who is inarticulate with palsy. Walpole.

INARTICULATED
In`ar*tic"u*la`ted, a.

Defn: Not articulated; not jointed or connected by a joint.

INARTICULATELY
In`ar*tic"u*late*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inarticulate manner. Hammond.

INARTICULATENESS
In`ar*tic"u*late*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being inarticulate.

INARTICULATION
In`ar*tic`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inarticulation.]

Defn: Inarticulateness. Chesterfield.

INARTIFICIAL
In*ar`ti*fi"cial, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + artificial: cf. F.
inartificiel.]

Defn: Not artificial; not made or elaborated by art; natural; simple;
artless; as, an inartificial argument; an inartificial character.
 -- In*ar`ti*fi"cial*ly, adv.
 -- In*ar`ti*fi"cial*ness, n.

INASMUCH
In`as*much", adv. Etym: [In + as + much.]

Defn: In like degree; in like manner; seeing that; considering that;
since; -- followed by as. See In as much as, under In, prep.
Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not
to me. Matt. xxv. 45.

Syn.
 -- Because; since; for; as. See Because.

INATTENTION
In`at*ten"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + attention: cf. F.
inattention.]

Defn: Want of attention, or failure to pay attention; disregard;
heedlessness; neglect.
Novel lays attract our ravished ears; But old, the mind inattention
hears. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Inadvertence; heedlessness; negligence; carelessness; disregard;
remissness; thoughtlessness; neglect.
 -- Inattention, Inadvertence. We miss seeing a thing through
inadvertence when do not happen to look at it; through inattention
when we give no heed to it, though directly before us. The latter is
therefore the worse. Inadvertence may be an involuntary accident;
inattention is culpable neglect. A versatile mind is often
inadvertent; a careless or stupid one is inattentive.

INATTENTIVE
In`at*ten"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. inattentif.]

Defn: Not attentive; not fixing the mind on an object; heedless;
careless; negligent; regardless; as, an inattentive spectator or
hearer; an inattentive habit. I. Watts.

Syn.
 -- Careless; heedless; regardless; thoughtless; negligent; remiss;
inadvertent.
 -- In`at*ten"tive*ly, adv.
 -- In`at*ten"tive*ness, n.

INAUDIBILITY
In*au`di*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being inaudible; inaudibleness.

INAUDIBLE
In*au"di*ble, a. Etym: [L. inaudibilis; pref. in- not + audire to
hear: cf. F. unaudible. See In- not, and Audible.]

Defn: Not audible; incapable of being heard; silent.
 -- In*au"di*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*au"di*bly, adv.

INAUGUR
In*au"gur, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. inaugurer. See Inaugurate.]

Defn: To inaugurate. [Obs.] Latimer.

INAUGURAL
In*au"gu*ral, a. Etym: [Cf. F. inaugural.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or performed or pronounced at, an inauguration;
as, an inaugural address; the inaugural exercises.

INAUGURAL
In*au"gu*ral, n.

Defn: An inaugural address. [U.S.]

INAUGURATE
In*au"gu*rate, a. Etym: [L. inauguratus, p. p. of inaugurare to take
omens from the flight of birds (before entering upon any important
undertaking); hence, to consecrate, inaugurate, or install, with such
divination; pref. in- in + augurare, augurari, to augur. See Augur.]

Defn: Invested with office; inaugurated. Drayton.

INAUGURATE
In*au"gu*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inaugurated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inaugurating.]

1. To introduce or induct into an office with suitable ceremonies or
solemnities; to invest with power or authority in a formal manner; to
install; as, to inaugurate a president; to inaugurate a king. Milton.

2. To cause to begin, esp. with formality or solemn ceremony; hence,
to set in motion, action, or progress; to initiate; -- used
especially of something of dignity or worth or public concern; as, to
inaugurate a new era of things, new methods, etc.
As if kings did closes remarkable days to inaugurate their favors.
Sir H. Wotton.

3. To celebrate the completion of, or the first public use of; to
dedicate, as a statue. [Colloq.]

4. To begin with good omens. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

INAUGURATION
In*au`gu*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. inauguratio a beginning: cf. F.
inauguration.]

1. The act of inuagurating, or inducting into office with solemnity;
investiture by appropriate ceremonies.
At his regal inauguration, his old father resigned the kingdom to
him. Sir T. Browne.

2. The formal beginning or initiation of any movement, course of
action, etc.; as, the inauguration of a new system, a new condition,
etc.

INAUGURATION DAY
In*au`gu*ra"tion Day.

Defn: The day on which the President of the United States is
inaugurated, the 4th of March in every year next after a year
divisible by four.

INAUGURATOR
In*au"gu*ra`tor, n.

Defn: One who inaugurates.

INAUGURATORY
In*au"gu*ra*to*ry, a.

Defn: Suitable for, or pertaining to, inauguration. Johnson.

INAURATE
In*au"rate, a. Etym: [L. inauratus, p. p. inaurare to gild; pref. in-
in + aurum gold.]

Defn: Covered with gold; gilded.

INAURATE
In*au"rate, v. t.

Defn: To cover with gold; to gild.

INAURATION
In`au*ra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inauration.]

Defn: The act or process of gilding or covering with gold.

INAUSPICATE
In*aus"pi*cate, a. Etym: [L. inauspicatus; pref. in- not +
auspicatus, p. p. auspicari. See Auspicate.]

Defn: Inauspicious [Obs.] Sir G. Buck.

INAUSPICIOUS
In`aus*pi"cious, a.

Defn: Not auspicious; ill-omened; unfortunate; unlucky; unfavorable.
"Inauspicious stars." Shak. "Inauspicious love." Dryden.
 -- In`aus*pi"cious*ly, adv.
 -- In`aus*pi"cious*ness, n.

INAUTHORITATIVE
In`au*thor"i*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Without authority; not authoritative.

INBARGE
In"barge, v. t. & i.

Defn: To embark; to go or put into a barge. [Obs.] Drayton.

INBEAMING
In"beam`ing, n.

Defn: Shining in. South.

INBEING
In"be`ing, n.

Defn: Inherence; inherent existence. I. Watts.

INBIND
In*bind", v. t.

Defn: To inclose. [Obs.] Fairfax.

INBLOWN
In"blown`, a.

Defn: Blown in or into. [Obs.]

INBOARD
In"board`, a. & adv.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: Inside the line of a vessel's bulwarks or hull; the opposite of
outboard; as, an inboard cargo; haul the boom inboard.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: From without inward; toward the inside; as, the inboard stroke
of a steam engine piston, the inward or return stroke.

INBORN
In"born`, a.

Defn: Born in or with; implanted by nature; innate; as, inborn
passions. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Innate; inherent; natural.

INBREAK; INBREAKING
In"break`, In"break`ing, n.

Defn: A breaking in; inroad; invasion.

INBREATHE
In*breathe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inbreathed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inbreathing.]

Defn: To infuse by breathing; to inspire. Coleridge.

INBRED
In"bred`, a.

Defn: Bred within; innate; as, inbred worth. "Inbred sentiments."
Burke.

INBREED
In*breed", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inbred; p. pr. & vb. n. Inbreeding.]
Etym: [Cf. Imbreed.]

1. To produce or generate within. Bp. Reynolds.
To inbreed and cherish . . . the seeds of virtue. Milton.

2. To breed in and in. See under Breed, v. i.

INBURNING
In"burn`ing, a.

Defn: Burning within.
Her inburning wrath she gan abate. Spenser.

INBURNT
In"burnt`, a.

Defn: Burnt in; ineffaceable.
Her inburnt, shamefaced thoughts. P. Fletcher.

INBURST
In"burst`, n.

Defn: A bursting in or into.

INC
Inc, n.

Defn: A Japanese measure of length equal to about two and one twelfth
yards. [Written also ink.]

INCA
In"ca, n.
(a) An emperor or monarch of Peru before, or at the time of, the
Spanish conquest; any member of this royal dynasty, reputed to have
been descendants of the sun. (b) pl.

Defn: The people governed by the Incas, now represented by the
Quichua tribe. Inca dove (Zoöl.), a small dove (Scardafella inca),
native of Arizona, Lower California, and Mexico.

INCAGE
In*cage", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incaged; p. pr. & vb. n. Incaging.]
Etym: [Cf. Encage.]

Defn: To confine in, or as in, a cage; to coop up. [Written also
encage.] "Incaged birds." Shak.

INCAGEMENT
In*cage"ment, n.

Defn: Confinement in, or as in, cage. [Obs.] Shelton.

INCALCULABILITY
In*cal`cu*la*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being incalculable.

INCALCULABLE
In*cal"cu*la*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + calculable: cf. F.
incalculable.]

Defn: Not capable of being calculated; beyond calculation; very
great.
 -- In*cal"cu*la*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*cal"cu*la*bly, adv.

INCALESCENCE
In`ca*les"cence, n.

Defn: The state of being incalescent, or of growing warm. Sir T.
Browne.

INCALESCENCY
In`ca*les"cen*cy, n.

Defn: Incalescence. Ray.

INCALESCENT
In`ca*les"cent, a. Etym: [L. incalescens, -entis, p. pr. of
incalescere to grow hot. See 1st In-, and Calescence.]

Defn: Growing warm; increasing in heat.

INCAMERATION
In*cam`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- in + L. camera chamber, LL.,
also, jurisdiction: cf. F. incamération, It. incamerazione.] (R. C.
Ch.)

Defn: The act or process of uniting lands, rights, or revenues, to
the ecclesiastical chamber, i. e., to the pope's domain.

INCAN
In"can, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Incas.

INCANDESCENCE
In`can*des"cence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incandescence.]

Defn: A white heat, or the glowing or luminous whiteness of a body
caused by intense heat.

INCANDESCENT
In`can*des"cent, a. Etym: [L. incandecens, -entis, p. pr. of
incandescere to become warm or hot; pref. in- in + candescere to
become of a glittering whiteness, to become red hot, incho. fr.
candere to be of a glittering whiteness: cf. F. incandescent. See
Candle.]

Defn: White, glowing, or luminous, with intense heat; as,
incandescent carbon or platinum; hence, clear; shining; brilliant.
Holy Scripture become resplendent; or, as one might say, incandescent
throughout. I. Taylor.
Incandescent lamp or light (Elec.), a kind of lamp in which the light
is produced by a thin filament of conducting material, usually
carbon, contained in a vacuum, and heated to incandescence by an
electric current, as in the Edison lamp; -- called also incandescence
lamp, and glowlamp.

INCANESCENT
In`ca*nes"cent, a. Etym: [L. incanescens, p. pr. incanescere to
become gray.]

Defn: Becoming hoary or gray; canescent.

INCANOUS
In*ca"nous, a. Etym: [L. incanus; pref. in- in + canus hoary.] (Bot.)

Defn: Hoary with white pubescence.

INCANTATION
In`can*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. incantatio, fr. incantare to chant a
magic formula over one: cf. F. incantation. See Enchant.]

1. The act or process of using formulas sung or spoken, with occult
ceremonies, for the purpose of raising spirits, producing
enchantment, or affecting other magical results; enchantment.
"Mysterious ceremony and incantation." Burke.

2. A formula of words used as above.

INCANTATORY
In*cant"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Dealing by enchantment; magical. Sir T. Browne.

INCANTING
In*cant"ing, a.

Defn: Enchanting. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

INCANTON
In*can"ton, v. t.

Defn: To unite to, or form into, a canton or separate community.
Addison.

INCAPABILITY
In*ca`pa*bil"i*ty, n.

1. The quality of being incapable; incapacity. Suckling.

2. (Law)

Defn: Want of legal qualifications, or of legal power; as,
incapability of holding an office.

INCAPABLE
In*ca"pa*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + capable: cf. F. incapable, L.
incapabilis incomprehensible.]

1. Wanting in ability or qualification for the purpose or end in
view; not large enough to contain or hold; deficient in physical
strength, mental or moral power, etc.; not capable; as, incapable of
holding a certain quantity of liquid; incapable of endurance, of
comprehension, of perseverance, of reform, etc.

2. Not capable of being brought to do or perform, because morally
strong or well disposed; -- used with reference to some evil; as,
incapable of wrong, dishonesty, or falsehood.

3. Not in a state to receive; not receptive; not susceptible; not
able to admit; as, incapable of pain, or pleasure; incapable of stain
or injury.

4. (Law)

Defn: Unqualified or disqualified, in a legal sense; as, a man under
thirty-five years of age is incapable of holding the office of
president of the United States; a person convicted on impeachment is
thereby made incapable of holding an office of profit or honor under
the government.

5. (Mil.)

Defn: As a term of disgrace, sometimes annexed to a sentence when an
officer has been cashiered and rendered incapable of serving his
country.

Note: Incapable is often used elliptically.
Is not your father grown incapable of reasonable affairs Shak.

Syn.
 -- Incompetent; unfit; unable; insufficient; inadequate; deficient;
disqualified. See Incompetent.

INCAPABLE
In*ca"pa*ble, n.

Defn: One who is morally or mentally weak or inefficient; an
imbecile; a simpleton.

INCAPABLENESS
In*ca"pa*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being incapable; incapability.

INCAPABLY
In*ca"pa*bly, adv.

Defn: In an incapable manner.

INCAPACIOUS
In`ca*pa"cious, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + capacious: cf. L. incapax
incapable.]

Defn: Not capacious; narrow; small; weak or foolish; as, an
incapacious soul. Bp. Burnet.
 -- In`ca*pa"cious*ness, n.

INCAPACITATE
In`ca*pac"i*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incapacitated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incapacitating.] Etym: [Pref. in- not + capacitate.]

1. To deprive of capacity or natural power; to disable; to render
incapable or unfit; to disqualify; as, his age incapacitated him for
war.

2. (Law)

Defn: To deprive of legal or constitutional requisites, or of ability
or competency for the performance of certain civil acts; to
disqualify.
It absolutely incapacitated them from holding rank, office, function,
or property. Milman.

INCAPACITATION
In`ca*pac`i*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of incapacitating or state of being incapacitated;
incapacity; disqualification. Burke.

INCAPACITY
In`ca*pac"i*ty, n.; pl. Incapacities (. Etym: [Cf. F. incapacité.]

1. Want of capacity; lack of physical or intellectual power;
inability.

2. (Law)

Defn: Want of legal ability or competency to do, give, transmit, or
receive something; inability; disqualification; as, the inacapacity
of minors to make binding contracts, etc.

Syn.
 -- Inability; incapability; incompetency; unfitness;
disqualification; disability.

INCAPSULATE
In*cap"su*late, v. t. (Physiol.)

Defn: To inclose completely, as in a membrane.

INCAPSULATION
In*cap`su*la"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The process of becoming, or the state or condition of being,
incapsulated; as, incapsulation of the ovum in the uterus.

INCARCERATE
In*car"cer*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incarcerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incarcerating.] Etym: [Pref. in- in + L. carceratus, p. p. of
carcerare to imprison, fr. carcer prison.]

1. To imprison; to confine in a jail or priso

2. To confine; to shut up or inclose; to hem in. Incarcerated hernia
(Med.), hernia in which the constriction can not be easily reduced.

INCARCERATE
In*car"cer*ate, a.

Defn: Imprisoned. Dr. H. More.

INCARCERATION
In*car`cer*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incarcération.]

1. The act of confining, or the state of being confined;
imprisonment. Glanvill.

2. (Med.)
(a) Formerly, strangulation, as in hernia.
(b) A constriction of the hernial sac, rendering it irreducible, but
not great enough to cause strangulation.

INCARCERATOR
In*car"cer*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who incarcerates.

INCARN
In*carn", v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. incarner. See Incarnate.]

Defn: To cover or invest with flesh. [R.] Wiseman.

INCARN
In*carn", v. i.

Defn: To develop flesh. [R.] Wiseman.

INCARNADINE
In*car"na*dine, a. Etym: [F. incarnadin, It. incarnatino; L. pref.
in- in + caro, carnis, flesh. Cf. Carnation, Incarnate.]

Defn: Flesh-colored; of a carnation or pale red color. [Obs.]
Lovelace.

INCARNADINE
In*car"na*dine, v. t.

Defn: To dye red or crimson.
Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand No;
this my hand will rather The multitudinous seas incarnadine, Making
the green one red. Shak.

INCARNATE
In*car"nate, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + carnate.]

Defn: Not in the flesh; spiritual. [Obs.]
I fear nothing . . . that devil carnate or incarnate can fairly do.
Richardson.

INCARNATE
In*car"nate, a. Etym: [L. incarnatus, p. p. of incarnare to
incarnate, pref. in- in + caro, carnis, flesh. See Carnal.]

1. Invested with flesh; embodied in a human nature and form; united
with, or having, a human body.
Here shalt thou sit incarnate. Milton.
He represents the emperor and his wife as two devils incarnate, sent
into the world for the destruction of mankind. Jortin.

2. Flesh-colored; rosy; red. [Obs.] Holland.

INCARNATE
In*car"nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incarnated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incarnating.]

Defn: To clothe with flesh; to embody in flesh; to invest, as
spirits, ideals, etc., with a human from or nature.
This essence to incarnate and imbrute, That to the height of deity
aspired. Milton.

INCARNATE
In*car"nate, v. i.

Defn: To form flesh; to granulate, as a wound. [R.]
My uncle Toby's wound was nearly well -- 't was just beginning to
incarnate. Sterne.

INCARNATION
In`car*na"tion, n. Etym: [F. incarnation, LL. incarnatio.]

1. The act of clothing with flesh, or the state of being so clothed;
the act of taking, or being manifested in, a human body and nature.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: The union of the second person of the Godhead with manhood in
Christ.

3. An incarnate form; a personification; a manifestation; a reduction
to apparent from; a striking exemplification in person or act.
She is a new incarnation of some of the illustrious dead. Jeffrey.
The very incarnation of selfishness. F. W. Robertson.

4. A rosy or red color; flesh color; carnation. [Obs.]

5. (Med.)

Defn: The process of healing wounds and filling the part with new
flesh; granulation.

INCARNATIVE
In*car"na*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. incarnatif.]

Defn: Causing new flesh to grow; healing; regenerative.
 -- n.

Defn: An incarnative medicine.

INCARNIFICATION
In*car`ni*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [See Incarnation, and -fy.]

Defn: The act of assuming, or state of being clothed with, flesh;
incarnation.

INCASE
In*case", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incased; p. pr. & vb. n. Incasing.]
Etym: [F. encaisser; pref. en- (L. in) + caisse case. See Case a box,
and cf. Encase, Enchase.]

Defn: To inclose in a case; to inclose; to cover or surround with
something solid.
Rich plates of gold the folding doors incase. Pope.

INCASEMENT
In*case"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. Casement.]

1. The act or process of inclosing with a case, or the state of being
incased.

2. That which forms a case, covering, or inclosure.

INCASK
In*cask", v. t.

Defn: To cover with a casque or as with a casque. Sherwood.

INCASTELLATED
In*cas"tel*la`ted, a.

Defn: Confined or inclosed in a castle.

INCASTELLED
In*cas"telled, a. (Far.)

Defn: Hoofbound. Crabb.

INCATENATION
In*cat`e*na"tion, n. Etym: [LL. incatenatio; L. pref. in- in + catena
chain. See Enchain.]

Defn: The act of linking together; enchaining. [R.] Goldsmith.

INCAUTION
In*cau"tion, n.

Defn: Want of caution. Pope.

INCAUTIOUS
In*cau"tious, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + cautious: cf. L. incautus.]

Defn: Not cautious; not circumspect; not attending to the
circumstances on which safety and interest depend; heedless;
careless; as, an incautious step; an incautious remark.

You . . . incautious tread On fire with faithless embers overspread.
Francis.
His rhetorical expressions may easily captivate any incautious
reader. Keill.

Syn.
 -- Unwary; indiscreet; inconsiderate; imprudent; impolitic;
careless; heedless; thoughtless.
 -- In*cau"tious*ly, adv.
 -- In*cau"tious*ness, n.

INCAVATED
In"ca*va`ted, a. Etym: [L. incavatus, p. p. of incavare to make
hollow: pref in- in + cavare to hollow out, fr. cavus hollow.]

Defn: Made hollow; bent round or in.

INCAVATION
In`ca*va"tion, n.

Defn: Act of making hollow; also, a hollow; an exvation; a
depression.

INCAVED
In*caved", a. Etym: [Pref. in- in + cave. Cf. Encave, Incavated.]

Defn: Inclosed in a cave.

INCAVERNED
In*cav"erned, a.

Defn: Inclosed or shut up as in a cavern. Drayton.

INCEDINGLY
In*ced"ing*ly, adv. Etym: [L. incedere to walk majestically.]

Defn: Majestically. [R.] C. Bronté.

INCELEBRITY
In`ce*leb"ri*ty, n.

Defn: Want of celebrity or distinction; obscurity. [R.] Coleridge.

INCEND
In*cend", v. t. Etym: [L. incendere, incensum, to kindle, burn. See
Incense to inflame.]

Defn: To inflame; to excite. [Obs.] Marston.

INCENDIARISM
In*cen"di*a*rism, n. Etym: [From Incendiary.]

Defn: The act or practice of maliciously setting fires; arson.

INCENDIARY
In*cen"di*a*ry, n.; pl. Incendiaries. Etym: [L. incendiarius: cf. F.
incendiaire. See Incense to inflame.]

1. Any person who maliciously sets fire to a building or other
valuable or other valuable property.

2. A person who excites or inflames factions, and promotes quarrels
or sedition; an agitator; an exciter.
Several cities . . . drove them out as incendiaries. Bentley.

INCENDIARY
In*cen"di*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. incendiarius, fr. incendium a fire,
conflagration: cf. F. incendiaire. See Incense to inflame.]

1. Of or pertaining to incendiarism, or the malicious burning of
valuable property; as, incendiary material; as incendiary crime.

2. Tending to excite or inflame factions, sedition, or quarrel;
inflammatory; seditious. Paley. Incendiary shell, a bombshell. See
Carcass, 4.

INCENDIOUS
In*cen"di*ous, a. Etym: [L. incendiosus burning, hot.]

Defn: Promoting faction or contention; seditious; inflammatory.
[Obs.] Bacon.
 -- In*cen"di*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.]

INCENSANT
In*cen"sant, a. Etym: [See Incense to anger.] (Her.)

Defn: A modern term applied to animals (as a boar) when borne as
raging, or with furious aspect.

INCENSATION
In`cen*sa"tion, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The offering of incense. [R.] Encyc. Brit.

INCENSE
In*cense", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incensed; p. pr. & vb. n. Incensing.]
Etym: [L. incensus, p. p. of incendere; pref. in- in + root of
candere to glow. See Candle.]

1. To set on fire; to inflame; to kindle; to burn. [Obs.]
Twelve Trojan princes wait on thee, and labor to incense Thy glorious
heap of funeral. Chapman.

2. To inflame with anger; to endkindle; to fire; to incite; to
provoke; to heat; to madden.
The people are incensed him. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To enrage; exasperate; provoke; anger; irritate; heat; fire;
instigate.

INCENSE
In"cense, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incensed; p. pr. & vb. n. Incensing.]
Etym: [LL. incensare: cf. F. encenser. See Incense, n.]

1. To offer incense to. See Incense. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To perfume with, or as with, incense. "Incensed with wanton
sweets." Marston.

INCENSE
In"cense, n. Etym: [OE. encens, F. encens, L. incensum, fr. incensus,
p. p. of incendere to burn. See Incense to inflame.]

1. The perfume or odors exhaled from spices and gums when burned in
celebrating religious rites or as an offering to some deity.
A thick of incense went up. Ezek. viii. 11.

2. The materials used for the purpose of producing a perfume when
burned, as fragrant gums, spices, frankincense, etc.
Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took either of them his censer,
and put fire therein, and put incense thereon. Lev. x. 1.

3. Also used figuratively.
Or heap the shrine of luxury and pride,
With incense kindled at the Muse's flame. Gray. Incense tree, the
name of several balsamic trees of the genus Bursera (or Icica) mostly
tropical American. The gum resin is used for incense. In Jamaica the
Chrysobalanus Icaco, a tree related to the plums, is called incense
tree.
 -- Incense wood, the fragrant wood of the tropical American tree
Bursera heptaphylla.

INCENSEBREATHING; INCENSE-BREATHING
In"cense*breath`ing, a.

Defn: Breathing or exhaling incense. "Incense-breathing morn." Gray.

INCENSED
In*censed", a.

1. Angered; enraged.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Represented as enraged, as any wild creature depicted with fire
issuing from mouth and eyes.

INCENSEMENT
In*cense"ment, n.

Defn: Fury; rage; heat; exasperation; as, implacable incensement.
Shak.

INCENSER
In*cen"ser, n.

Defn: One who instigates or incites.

INCENSION
In*cen"sion, n. Etym: [L. incensio. See Incense to inflame.]

Defn: The act of kindling, or the state of being kindled or on fire.
Bacon.

INCENSIVE
In*cen"sive, a.

Defn: Tending to excite or provoke; inflammatory. Barrow.

INCENSOR
In*cen"sor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A kindler of anger or enmity; an inciter.

INCENSORY
In*cen"so*ry, n.; pl. Incensories. Etym: [LL. incensorium: cf. F.
encensoir. See 2d Incense, and cf. Censer.]

Defn: The vessel in which incense is burned and offered; a censer; a
thurible. [R.] Evelyn.

INCENSURABLE
In*cen"sur*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + censurable: cf. F.
incensurable.]

Defn: Not censurable. Dr. T. Dwight.
 -- In*cen"sur*a*bly, adv.

INCENTER
In*cen"ter, n. (Geom.)

Defn: The center of the circle inscribed in a triangle.

INCENTIVE
In*cen"tive, a. Etym: [L. incentivus, from incinere to strike up or
set the tune; pref. in- + canere to sing. See Enchant, Chant.]

1. Inciting; encouraging or moving; rousing to action; stimulative.
Competency is the most incentive to industry. Dr. H. More.

2. Serving to kindle or set on fire. [R.]
Part incentive reed
Provide, pernicious with one touch of fire. Milton.

INCENTIVE
In*cen"tive, n. Etym: [L. incentivum.]

Defn: That which moves or influences the mind, or operates on the
passions; that which incites, or has a tendency to incite, to
determination or action; that which prompts to good or ill; motive;
spur; as, the love of money, and the desire of promotion, are two
powerful incentives to action.
The greatest obstacles, the greatest terrors that come in their way,
are so far from making them quit the work they had begun, that they
rather prove incentives to them to go on in it. South.

Syn.
 -- Motive; spur; stimulus; incitement; encouragement; inducement;
influence.

INCENTIVELY
In*cen"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: Incitingly; encouragingly.

INCEPTION
In*cep"tion, n. Etym: [L. inceptio, fr. incipere to begin; pref. in-
in + capere to take. See Capable.]

1. Beginning; commencement; initiation. Bacon.
Marked with vivacity of inception, apathy of progress, and
prematureness of decay. Rawle.

2. Reception; a taking in. [R.] Poe.

INCEPTIVE
In*cep"tive, a.

Defn: Beginning; expressing or indicating beginning; as, an inceptive
proposition; an inceptive verb, which expresses the beginning of
action; -- called also inchoative.
 -- In*cep"tive*ly, adv.

INCEPTIVE
In*cep"tive, n.

Defn: An inceptive word, phrase, or clause.

INCEPTOR
In*cep"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. A beginner; one in the rudiments. Johnson.

2. One who is on the point of taking the degree of master of arts at
an English university. Walton.

INCERATION
In`cer*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. incerare to smear with wax; pref. in- in
+ cerare to wax, fr. cera wax: cf. F. incération.]

Defn: The act of smearing or covering with wax. B. Jonson.

INCERATIVE
In*cer"a*tive, a.

Defn: Cleaving or sticking like wax. Cotgrave.

INCERTAIN
In*cer"tain, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + certain: cf. F. incertain, L.
incertus. See Certain.]

Defn: Uncertain; doubtful; unsteady.
 -- In*cer"tain*ly, adv.
Very questionable and of uncertain truth. Sir T. Browne.

INCERTAINTY
In*cer"tain*ty, n.

Defn: Uncertainty. [Obs.] Shak.

INCERTITUDE
In*cer"ti*tude, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incertitude, LL. incertitudo, fr. L.
incertus. See Incertain.]

Defn: Uncertainty; doubtfulness; doubt.
The incertitude and instability of this life. Holland.
He fails . . . from mere incertitude or irresolution. I. Taylor.

INCERTUM
In*cer"tum, a.

Defn: Doubtful; not of definite form. Opus incertum (Anc. Arch.), a
kind of masonry employed in building walls, in which the stones were
not squared nor laid in courses; rubblework.

INCESSABLE
In*ces"sa*ble, a. Etym: [L. incessabilis; pref. in- not + cessare to
cease.]

Defn: Unceasing; continual. [Obs.] Shelton.
 -- In*ces"sa*bly, adv. [Obs.]

INCESSANCY
In*ces"san*cy, n. Etym: [From Incessant.]

Defn: The quality of being incessant; unintermitted continuance;
unceasingness. Dr. T. Dwight.

INCESSANT
In*ces"sant, a. Etym: [L. incessans, -antis; pref. in- not + cessare
to cease: cf. F. incessant. See Cease.]

Defn: Continuing or following without interruption; unceasing;
unitermitted; uninterrupted; continual; as, incessant clamors;
incessant pain, etc.
Against the castle gate, . . . Which with incessant force and endless
hate, They batter'd day and night and entrance did await. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- Unceasing; uninterrupted; unintermitted; unremitting; ceaseless;
continual; constant; perpetual.

INCESSANTLY
In*ces"sant*ly, adv.

Defn: Unceasingly; continually. Shak.

INCESSION
In*ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. incedere, incessum, to walk.]

Defn: Motion on foot; progress in walking. [Obs.]
The incession or local motion of animals. Sir T. Browne.

INCEST
In"cest, n. Etym: [F. inceste, L. incestum unchastity, incest, fr.
incestus unchaste; pref. in- not + castus chaste. See Chaste.]

Defn: The crime of cohabitation or sexual commerce between persons
related within the degrees wherein marriage is prohibited by law.
Shak. Spiritual incest. (Eccl. Law) (a) The crime of cohabitation
committed between persons who have a spiritual alliance by means of
baptism or confirmation. (b) The act of a vicar, or other
beneficiary, who holds two benefices, the one depending on the
collation of the other.

INCESTTUOUS
In*cest"tu*ous, a. Etym: [L. incestuosus: cf. F. incestueux.]

Defn: Guilty of incest; involving, or pertaining to, the crime of
incest; as, an incestuous person or connection. Shak.
Ere you reach to this incestuous love, You must divine and human
rights remove. Dryden.
-- In*cest"tu*ous*ly, adv.
 -- In*cest"tu*ous*ness, n.

INCH
Inch, n. Etym: [Gael. inis.]

Defn: An island; -- often used in the names of small islands off the
coast of Scotland, as in Inchcolm, Inchkeith, etc. [Scot.]

INCH
Inch, n. Etym: [OE. inche, unche, AS. ynce, L. uncia the twelfth
part, inch, ounce. See Ounce a weight.]

1. A measure of length, the twelfth part of a foot, commonly
subdivided into halves, quarters, eights, sixteenths, etc., as among
mechanics. It was also formerly divided into twelve parts, called
lines, and originally into three parts, called barleycorns, its
length supposed to have been determined from three grains of barley
placed end to end lengthwise. It is also sometimes called a prime
('), composed of twelve seconds ('\'b7), as in the duodecimal system
of arithmetic.
12 seconds ('\'b7) make 1 inch or prime. 12 inches or primes (') make
1 foot. B. Greenleaf.

Note: The meter, the accepted scientific standard of length, equals
39.37 inches; the inch is equal to 2.54 centimeters. See Metric
system, and Meter.

2. A small distance or degree, whether or time
Beldame, I think we watched you at an inch. Shak.
By inches, by slow degrees, gradually.
 -- Inch of candle. See under Candle.
 -- Inches of pressure, usually, the pressure indicated by so many
inches of a mercury column, as on a steam gauge.
 -- Inch of water. See under Water.
 -- Miner's inch, (Hydraulic Mining), a unit for the measurement of
water. See Inch of water, under Water.

INCH
Inch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inched; p. pr. & vb. n. Inching.]

1. To drive by inches, or small degrees. [R.]
He gets too far into the soldier's grace And inches out my master.
Dryden.

2. To deal out by inches; to give sparingly. [R.]

INCH
Inch, v. i.

Defn: To advance or retire by inches or small degrees; to move
slowly.
With slow paces measures back the field, And inches to the walls.
Dryden.

INCH
Inch, a.

Defn: Measurement an inch in any dimension, whether length, breadth,
or thickness; -- used in composition; as, a two-inch cable; a four-
inch plank. Inch stuff, boards, etc., sawed one inch thick.

INCHAMBER
In*cham"ber, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inchambered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inchambering.] Etym: [Pref. in- in + chamber: cf. OF. enchambrer.]

Defn: To lodge in a chamber. [R.] Sherwood.

INCHANGEABILITY
In*change`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Unchangeableness. [Obs.] Kenrick.

INCHANT
In*chant", v. t.

Defn: See Enchant.

INCHARITABLE
In*char"i*ta*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. incharitable.]

Defn: Uncharitable; unfeeling. [Obs.] Shak.

INCHARITY
In*char"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incharité.]

Defn: Want of charity. [Obs.] Evelyn.

INCHASE
In*chase", v. t.

Defn: See Enchase.

INCHASTITY
In*chas"ti*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + chastity: cf. F.
inchasteté.]

Defn: Unchastity. [Obs.] Milton.

INCHED
Inched, a.

Defn: Having or measuring (so many) inches; as, a four-inched bridge.
Shak.

INCHEST
In*chest", v. t.

Defn: To put into a chest.

INCHIPIN
Inch"i*pin, n.

Defn: See Inchpin.

INCHMEAL
Inch"meal`, n. Etym: [See Meal a part, and cf. Piecemeal.]

Defn: A piece an inch long. By inchmeal, by small degrees; by inches.
Shak.

INCHMEAL
Inch"meal`, adv.

Defn: Little by little; gradually.

INCHOATE
In"cho*ate, a. Etym: [L. inchoatus, better incohatus, p. p. of
incohare to begin.]

Defn: Recently, or just, begun; beginning; partially but not fully in
existence or operation; existing in its elements; incomplete.
 -- In"cho*ate*ly, adv.
Neither a substance perfect, nor a substance inchoate. Raleigh.

INCHOATE
In"cho*ate, v. t.

Defn: To begin. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

INCHOATION
In`cho*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. inchoatio, incohatio.]

Defn: Act of beginning; commencement; inception.
The setting on foot some of those arts, in those parts, would be
looked on as the first inchoation of them. Sir M. Hale.
It is now in actual progress, from the rudest inchoation to the most
elaborate finishing. I. Taylor.

INCHOATIVE
In*cho"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. inchoativus, incohativus: cf. F.
inchoatif.]

Defn: Expressing or pertaining to a beginning; inceptive; as, an
inchoative verb. "Some inchoative or imperfect rays." W. Montagu.
 -- n.

Defn: An inchoative verb. See Inceptive.

INCHPIN
Inch"pin, n. Etym: [Written also inchipin, inche-pinne, inne-pinne.]
Etym: [Cf. Gael. inne, innidh, bowel, entrail.]

Defn: The sweetbread of a deer. Cotgrave.

INCHWORM
Inch"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larva of any geometrid moth. See Geometrid.

INCICURABLE
In*cic"u*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. incicur not tame; pref. in- not + cicur
name.]

Defn: Untamable. [R.]

INCIDE
In*cide", v. t. Etym: [L. incidere; pref. in- in + caedere to cut.
See Concise, and cf. Incise.]

Defn: To cut; to separate and remove; to resolve or break up, as by
medicines. [Obs.] Arbuthnot.

INCIDENCE
In"ci*dence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incidence.]

1. A falling on or upon; an incident; an event. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

2. (Physics)

Defn: The direction in which a body, or a ray of light or heat, falls
on any surface.
In equal incidences there is a considerable inequality of
refractions. Sir I. Newton.
Angle of incidence, the angle which a ray of light, or the line of
incidence of a body, falling on any surface, makes with a
perpendicular to that surface; also formerly, the complement of this
angle.
 -- Line of incidence, the line in the direction of which a surface
is struck by a body, ray of light, and the like.

INCIDENCY
In"ci*den*cy, n.

Defn: Incidence. [Obs.] Shak.

INCIDENT
In"ci*dent, a. Etym: [L. incidens, -entis, p. pr. & of incidere to
fall into or upon; pref. in- in, on + cadere to fall: cf. F.
incident. See Cadence.]

1. Falling or striking upon, as a ray of light upon a reflecting
surface.

2. Coming or happening accidentally; not in the usual course of
things; not in connection with the main design; not according to
expectation; casual; fortuitous.
As the ordinary course of common affairs is disposed of by general
laws, so likewise men's rarer incident necessities and utilities
should be with special equity considered. Hooker.

3. Liable to happen; apt to occur; befalling; hence, naturally
happening or appertaining.
All chances incident to man's frail life. Milton.
The studies incident to his profession. Milward.

4. (Law)

Defn: Dependent upon, or appertaining to, another thing, called the
principal. Incident proposition (Logic), a proposition subordinate to
another, and introduced by who, which, whose, whom, etc.; as, Julius,
whose surname was Cæsar, overcame Pompey. I. Watts.

INCIDENT
In"ci*dent, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incident.]

1. That which falls out or takes place; an event; casualty;
occurrence.

2. That which happens aside from the main design; an accidental or
subordinate action or event.
No person, no incident, in a play but must be of use to carry on the
main design. Dryden.

3. (Law)

Defn: Something appertaining to, passing with, or depending on,
another, called the principal. Tomlins.

Syn.
 -- Circumstance; event; fact; adventure; contingency; chance;
accident; casualty. See Event.

INCIDENTAL
In`ci*den"tal, a.

Defn: Happening, as an occasional event, without regularity; coming
without design; casual; accidental; hence, not of prime concern;
subordinate; collateral; as, an incidental conversation; an
incidental occurrence; incidental expenses.
By some, religious duties . . . appear to be regarded . . . as an
incidental business. Rogers.

Syn.
 -- Accidental; casual; fortuitous; contingent; chance; collateral.
See Accidental.
 -- In`cen*den"tal*ly, adv.
 -- In`cen*den"tal*ness, n.
I treat either or incidentally of colors. Boyle.

INCIDENTAL
In`ci*den"tal, n.

Defn: An incident; that which is incidental; esp., in the plural, an
aggregate of subordinate or incidental items not particularized; as,
the expense of tuition and incidentals. Pope.

INCIDENTLY
In"ci*dent*ly, adv.

Defn: Incidentally. [Obs.]

INCINERABLE
In*cin"er*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being incinerated or reduced to ashes. Sir T.
Browne.

INCINERATE
In*cin"er*ate, Etym: [LL. incineratus, p. p. of incinerare to
incinerate; L. pref. in- in + cinis, cineris, ashes.]

Defn: Reduced to ashes by burning; thoroughly consumed. [Obs.] Bacon.

INCINERATE
In*cin"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incinerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incinerating.]

Defn: To burn to ashes; to consume; to burn. Bacon.
It is the fire only that incinerates bodies. Boyle.

INCINERATION
In*cin`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. incineratio: cf. F. incinération.]

Defn: The act of incinerating, or the state of being incinerated;
cremation.
The phenix kind, Of whose incineration, There riseth a new creation.
Skelton.

INCIPIENCE; INCIPIENCY
In*cip"i*ence, In*cip"i*en*cy, n. Etym: [L. incipientia.]

Defn: Beginning; commencement; incipient state.

INCIPIENT
In*cip"i*ent, a. Etym: [L. incipiens, p. pr. of incipere to begin.
See Inception.]

Defn: Beginning to be, or to show itself; commencing; initial; as,
the incipient stage of a fever; incipient light of day.
 -- In*cip"i*ent*ly, adv.

INCIRCLE
In*cir"cle, v. t.

Defn: See Encircle.

INCIRCLET
In*cir"clet, n. Etym: [Cf. Encirclet.]

Defn: A small circle. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

INCIRCUMSCRIPTIBLE
In*cir`cum*scrip"ti*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + circumscriptible:
cf. LL. incircumscriptibilis.]

Defn: Incapable of being circumscribed or limited. Cranmer.

INCIRCUMSCRIPTION
In*cir`cum*scrip"tion, n.

Defn: Condition or quality of being incircumscriptible or limitless.
Jer. Taylor.

INCIRCUMSPECT
In*cir"cum*spect, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + circumspect.]

Defn: Not circumspect; heedless; careless; reckless; impolitic.
Tyndale.

INCIRCUMSPECTION
In*cir`cum*spec"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incirconspection.]

Defn: Want of circumspection. Sir T. Browne.

INCISE
In*cise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incised; p. pr. & vb. n. Incising.]
Etym: [L. incisus, p. p. of incidere to incise: cf. F. inciser. See
Incide.]

1. To cut in or into with a sharp instrument; to carve; to engrave.
I on thy grave this epitaph incise. T. Carew.

2. To cut, gash, or wound with a sharp instrument; to cut off.

INCISED
In*cised", a.

1. Cut in; carved; engraved.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having deep and sharp notches, as a leaf or a petal.

INCISELY
In*cise"ly, adv.

Defn: In an incised manner.

INCISION
In*ci"sion, n. Etym: [L. incisio: cf. F. incision. See Incise.]

1. The act of incising, or cutting into a substance. Milton.

2. That which is produced by incising; the separation of the parts of
any substance made by a cutting or pointed instrument; a cut; a gash.

3. Separation or solution of viscid matter by medicines. [Obs.]

INCISIVE
In*ci"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. incisif.]

1. Having the quality of incising, cutting, or penetrating, as with a
sharp instrument; cutting; hence, sharp; acute; sarcastic; biting.
"An incisive, high voice." G. Eliot.
And her incisive smile accrediting That treason of false witness in
my blush. Mrs. Browning.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the incisors; incisor; as, the incisive
bones, the premaxillaries.

INCISOR
In*ci"sor, n. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: One of the teeth in front of the canines in either jaw; an
incisive tooth. See Tooth.

INCISOR
In*ci"sor, a.

Defn: Adapted for cutting; of or pertaining to the incisors;
incisive; as, the incisor nerve; an incisor foramen; an incisor
tooth.

INCISORY
In*ci"so*ry, a.

Defn: Having the quality of cutting; incisor; incisive.

INCISURE
In*cis"ure, n. Etym: [L. incisura: cf. F. incisure.]

Defn: A cut; an incision; a gash. Derham.

INCITANT
In*cit"ant, a. Etym: [L. incitans, -antis, p. pr. of incitare. See
Incite.]

Defn: Inciting; stimulating.

INCITANT
In*cit"ant, n.

Defn: That which incites; an inciting agent or cause; a stimulant. E.
Darwin.

INCITATION
In`ci*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. incitatio: cf. F. incitation.]

1. The act of inciting or moving to action.

2. That which incites to action; that which rouses or prompts;
incitement; motive; incentive.
The noblest incitation to honest attempts. Tatler.

INCITATIVE
In*cit"a*tive, n.

Defn: A provocative; an incitant; a stimulant. [R.] Jervas.

INCITE
In*cite", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incited; p. pr. & vb. n. Inciting.]
Etym: [L. incitare; pref. in- in + citare to rouse, stir up: cf. F.
inciter. See Cite.]

Defn: To move to action; to stir up; to rouse; to spur or urge on.
Anthiochus, when he incited Prusias to join in war, set before him
the greatness of the Romans. Bacon.
No blown ambition doth our arms incite. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Excite; stimulate; instigate; spur; goad; arouse; move; urge;
rouse; provoke; encourage; prompt; animate. See Excite.

INCITEMENT
In*cite"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incitement.]

1. The act of inciting.

2. That which incites the mind, or moves to action; motive;
incentive; impulse. Burke.
From the long records of a distant age, Derive incitements to renew
thy rage. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Motive; incentive; spur; stimulus; impulse; encouragement.

INCITER
In*cit"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, incites.

INCITINGLY
In*cit"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to incite or stimulate.

INCITO-MOTOR
In*ci`to-mo"tor, a. Etym: [L. incitus incited + E. motor.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Inciting to motion; -- applied to that action which, in the
case of muscular motion, commences in the nerve centers, and excites
the muscles to contraction. Opposed to excito-motor.

INCITO-MOTORY
In*ci`to-mo"to*ry, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Incitomotor.

INCIVIL
In*civ"il, a. Etym: [L. incivilis; pref. in- not + civilis civil: cf.
F. incivil.]

Defn: Uncivil; rude. [Obs.] Shak.

INCIVILITY
In`ci*vil"i*ty, n.; pl. Incivilities. Etym: [L. incivilitas: cf. F.
incivilité.]

1. The quality or state of being uncivil; want of courtesy; rudeness
of manner; impoliteness. Shak. Tillotson.

2. Any act of rudeness or ill breeding.
Uncomely jests, loud talking and jeering, which, in civil account,
are called indecencies and incivilities. Jer. Taylor.

3. Want of civilization; a state of rudeness or barbarism. [R.] Sir
W. Raleigh.

Syn.
 -- Impoliteness; uncourteousness; unmannerliness; disrespect;
rudeness; discourtesy.

INCIVILIZATION
In*civ`i*li*za"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + civilization.]

Defn: The state of being uncivilized; want of civilization;
barbarism.

INCIVILLY
In*civ"il*ly, adv.

Defn: Uncivilly. [Obs.] Shak.

INCIVISM
In*civ"ism, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + civism: cf. F. incivisme.]

Defn: Want of civism; want of patriotism or love to one's country;
unfriendliness to one's state or government. [R.] Macaulay.

INCLAMATION
In`cla*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. inclamatio. See 1st In-, and Claim.]

Defn: Exclamation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

INCLASP
In*clasp", v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + clasp. Cf. Enclasp.]

Defn: To clasp within; to hold fast to; to embrace or encircle.
[Written also enclasp.]
The flattering ivy who did ever see Inclasp the huge trunk of an aged
tree. F. Beaumont.

INCLAUDENT
In*clau"dent, a.

Defn: Not closing or shutting.

INCLAVATED
In"cla*va`ted, a. Etym: [LL. inclavatus; L. pref. in- in + clavare to
fasten with nails, fr. clavus nail.]

Defn: Set; fast; fixed. Dr. John Smith.

INCLAVE
In*clave", a. Etym: [See Inclavated.] (Her.)

Defn: Resembling a series of dovetails; -- said of a line of
division, such as the border of an ordinary.

INCLE
In"cle, n.

Defn: Same as Inkle.

INCLEMENCY
In*clem"en*cy, n.; pl. Inclemencies. Etym: [L. inclementia: cf. F.
inclémence.]

1. The state or quality of being inclement; want of clemency; want of
mildness of temper; unmercifulness; severity.
The inclemency of the late pope. Bp. Hall.

2. Physical severity or harshness (commonly in respect to the
elements or weather); roughness; storminess; rigor; severe cold,
wind, rain, or snow.
The inclemencies of morning air. Pope.
The rude inclemency of wintry skies. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Harshness; severity; cruelty; rigor; roughness; storminess;
boisterousness.

INCLEMENT
In*clem"ent, a. Etym: [L. inclemens; pref. in- not + clemens mild:
cf. F. inclément. See Clement.]

1. Not clement; destitute of a mild and kind temper; void of
tenderness; unmerciful; severe; harsh.

2. Physically severe or harsh (generally restricted to the elements
or weather); rough; boisterous; stormy; rigorously cold, etc.; as,
inclement weather. Cowper.
The guard the wretched from the inclement sky. Pope.
Teach us further by what means to shun The inclement seasons, rain,
ice, hail, and snow! Milton.

INCLEMENTLY
In*clem"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inclement manner.

INCLINABLE
In*clin"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. inclinabilis. See Incline.]

1. Leaning; tending.
Likely and inclinable to fall. Bentley.

2. Having a propensity of will or feeling; leaning in disposition;
disposed; propense; as, a mind inclinable to truth.
Whatsoever other sins he may be inclinable to. South.
The very constitution of a multitude is not so inclinable to save as
to destroy. Fuller.

INCLINABLENESS
In*clin"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being inclinable; inclination.

INCLINATION
In`cli*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. inclinatio: cf. F. inclination.]

1. The act of inclining, or state of being inclined; a leaning; as,
an inclination of the head.

2. A direction or tendency from the true vertical or horizontal
direction; as, the inclination of a column, or of a road bed.

3. A tendency towards another body or point

4. (Geom.)

Defn: The angle made by two lines or planes; as, the inclination of
the plane of the earth's equator to the plane of the ecliptic is
about 23º 28'; the inclination of two rays of light.

5. A leaning or tendency of the mind, feelings, preferences, or will;
propensity; a disposition more favorable to one thing than to
another; favor; desire; love.
A mere inclination to a thing is not properly a willing of that
thing. South.
How dost thou find the inclination of the people Shak.

6. A person or thing loved or admired. Sir W. Temple.

7. (Pharm.)

Defn: Decantation, or tipping for pouring. Inclination compass, an
inclinometer.
 -- Inclination of an orbit (Astron.), the angle which the orbit
makes the ecliptic.
 -- Inclination of the needle. See Dip of the needle, under Dip.

Syn.
 -- Bent; tendency; proneness; bias; proclivity; propensity;
prepossession; predilection; attachment; desire; affection; love. See
Bent, and cf. Disposition.

INCLINATORY
In*clin"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Having the quality of leaning or inclining; as, the inclinatory
needle.
 -- In*clin"a*to*ri*ly, adv. Sir T. Browne.

INCLINE
In*cline", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Inclined; p. pr. & vb. n. Inclining.]
Etym: [OE. inclinen, enclinen, OF. encliner, incliner, F. incliner,
L. inclinare; pref. in- in + clinare to bend, incline; akin to E.
lean. See Lean to incline.]

1. To deviate from a line, direction, or course, toward an object; to
lean; to tend; as, converging lines incline toward each other; a road
inclines to the north or south.

2. Fig.: To lean or tend, in an intellectual or moral sense; to favor
an opinion, a course of conduct, or a person; to have a propensity or
inclination; to be disposed.
Their hearts inclined to follow Abimelech. Judges ix. 3.
Power finds its balance, giddy motions cease In both the scales, and
each inclines to peace. Parnell.

3. To bow; to incline the head. Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- To lean; slope; slant; tend; bend.

INCLINE
In*cline", v. t.

1. To cause to deviate from a line, position, or direction; to give a
leaning, bend, or slope to; as, incline the column or post to the
east; incline your head to the right.
Incline thine ear, O Lord, and hear. Is. xxxvii. 17.

2. To impart a tendency or propensity to, as to the will or
affections; to turn; to dispose; to influence.
Incline my heart unto thy testimonies. Ps. cxix. 36.
Incline our hearts to keep this law. Book of Com. Prayer.

3. To bend; to cause to stoop or bow; as, to incline the head or the
body in acts of reverence or civility.
With due respect my body I inclined. Dryden.

INCLINE
In*cline", n.

Defn: An inclined plane; an ascent o

INCLINED
In*clined", p. p. & a.

1. Having a leaning or tendency towards, or away from, a thing;
disposed or moved by wish, desire, or judgment; as, a man inclined to
virtue. "Each pensively inclined." Cowper.

2. (Math.)

Defn: Making an angle with some line or plane; -- said of a line or
plane.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Bent out of a perpendicular position, or into a curve with the
convex side uppermost. Inclined plane. (Mech.) (a) A plane that makes
an oblique angle with the plane of the horizon; a sloping plane. When
used to produce pressure, or as a means of moving bodies, it is one
of the mechanical powers, so called. (b) (Railroad & Canal) An
inclined portion of track, on which trains or boats are raised or
lowered from one level to another.

INCLINER
In*clin"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, inclines; specifically, an inclined
dial.

INCLINING
In*clin"ing, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Inclined, 3.

INCLINING
In*clin"ing, n.

1. Inclination; disposition.
On the first inclining towards sleep. Burke.

2. Party or side chosen; a following.
Both you of my inclining, and the rest. Shak.

INCLINNOMETER
In`clin*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Incline + -meter.] (Magnetism)

Defn: An apparatus to determine the inclination of the earth's
magnetic force to the plane of the horizon; -- called also
inclination compass, and dip circle.

INCLIP
In*clip", v. t.

Defn: To clasp; to inclose.
Whate'er the ocean pales, or sky inclips. Shak.

INCLOISTER
In*clois"ter, v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + cloister: cf. F.
encloîtrer. Cf. Encloister.]

Defn: To confine as in a cloister; to cloister. Lovelace.

INCLOSE
In*close", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inclosed; p. pr. & vb. n. Inclosing.]
Etym: [See Enclose, and cf. Include.] [Written also enclose.]

1. To surround; to shut in; to confine on all sides; to include; to
shut up; to encompass; as, to inclose a fort or an army with troops;
to inclose a town with walls.
How many evils have inclosed me round! Milton.

2. To put within a case, envelope, or the like; to fold (a thing)
within another or into the same parcel; as, to inclose a letter or a
bank note.
The inclosed copies of the treaty. Sir W. Temple.

3. To separate from common grounds by a fence; as, to inclose lands.
Blackstone.

4. To put into harness; to harness. [Obs.]
They went to coach and their horse inclose. Chapman.

INCLOSER
In*clos"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, incloses; one who fences off land from
common grounds.

INCLOSURE
In*clo"sure, n. Etym: [See Inclose, Enclosure.] [Written also
enclosure.]

1. The act of inclosing; the state of being inclosed, shut up, or
encompassed; the separation of land from common ground by a fence.

2. That which is inclosed or placed within something; a thing
contained; a space inclosed or fenced up.
Within the inclosure there was a great store of houses. Hakluyt.

3. That which incloses; a barrier or fence.
Breaking our inclosures every morn. W. Browne.

INCLOUD
In*cloud", v. t.

Defn: To envelop as in clouds; to darken; to obscure. Milton.

INCLUDE
In*clude", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Included; p. pr. & vb. n. Including.]
Etym: [L. includere, inclusum; pref. in- in + claudere to shut. See
Close, and cf. Enclose.]

1. To confine within; to hold; to contain; to shut up; to inclose;
as, the shell of a nut includes the kernel; a pearl is included in a
shell.

2. To comprehend or comprise, as a genus the species, the whole a
part, an argument or reason the inference; to contain; to embrace;
as, this volume of Shakespeare includes his sonnets; he was included
in the invitation to the family; to and including page twenty-five.
The whole included race, his purposed prey. Milton.
The loss of such a lord includes all harm. Shak.

3. To conclude; to end; to terminate. [Obs.]
Come, let us go; we will include all jars With triumphs, mirth, and
rare solemnity. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To contain; inclose; comprise; comprehend; embrace; involve.

INCLUDED
In*clud"ed, a.

Defn: Inclosed; confined. Included stamens (Bot.), such as are
shorter than the floral envelopes, or are concealed within them.

INCLUDIBLE
In*clud"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being included.

INCLUSA
In*clu"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. inclusus, p. p. of includere to
shut in.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tribe of bivalve mollusks, characterized by the closed state
of the mantle which envelops the body. The ship borer (Teredo
navalis) is an example.

INCLUSION
In*clu"sion, n. Etym: [L. inclusio: cf. F. inclusion. See Include.]

1. The act of including, or the state of being included; limitation;
restriction; as, the lines of inclusion of his policy. Sir W. Temple.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A foreign substance, either liquid or solid, usually of minute
size, inclosed in the mass of a mineral.

INCLUSIVE
In*clu"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. inclusif.]

1. Inclosing; encircling; surrounding.
The inclusive verge Of golden metal that must round my brow. Shak.

2. Comprehending the stated limit or extremes; as, from Monday to
Saturday inclusive, that is, taking in both Monday and Saturday; --
opposed to exclusive.

INCLUSIVELY
In*clu"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inclusive manner.

INCOACH
In*coach", v. t.

Defn: To put a coach.

INCOACT; INCOACTED
In`co*act", In`co*act"ed, a. Etym: [L. incoactus; pref. in- not +
coactus forced. See Coact.]

Defn: Not compelled; unconstrained. [Obs.] Coles.

INCOAGULABLE
In`co*ag"u*la*ble, a.

Defn: Not coagulable.

INCOALESCENCE
In`co*a*les"cence, n.

Defn: The state of not coalescing.

INCOCTED
In*coct"ed, a. Etym: [Cf. Concoct.]

Defn: Raw; indigestible. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

INCOERCIBLE
In`co*er"ci*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + coercible: cf. F.
incoercible.]

1. Not to be coerced; incapable of being compelled or forced.

2. (Physics)

Defn: Not capable of being reduced to the form of a liquid by
pressure; -- said of any gas above its critical point; -- also
particularly of oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbon monoxide,
formerly regarded as incapable of liquefaction at any temperature or
pressure.

3. (Physics)

Defn: That can note be confined in, or excluded from, vessels, like
ordinary fluids, gases, etc.; -- said of the imponderable fluids,
heat, light, electricity, etc.

INCOEXISTENCE
In`co*ex*ist"ence, n.

Defn: The state of not coexisting. [Obs.] Locke.

INCOG
In*cog", adv.

Defn: Incognito. [Colloq.]
Depend upon it -- he'll remain incog. Addison.

INCOGITABLE
In*cog"i*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. incogitabilis; pref. in- not +
cogitabilis cogitable.]

Defn: Not cogitable; inconceivable. Sir T. More.

INCOGITANCE; INCOGITANCY
In*cog"i*tance, In*cog"i*tan*cy, n. Etym: [L. incogitantia.]

Defn: Want of thought, or of the power of thinking; thoughtlessness;
unreasonableness.
'T is folly and incogitancy to argue anything, one way or the other,
from the designs of a sort of beings with whom we so little
communicate. Glanvill.

INCOGITANT
In*cog"i*tant, a. Etym: [L. incogitans; pref. in- not + cogitans, p.
pr. of cogitare to think. See Cogitate.]

Defn: Toughtless; inconsiderate. [R.] Milton.
Men are careless and incogitant. J. Goodman.

INCOGITANTLY
In*cog"i*tant*ly, adv.

Defn: In an incogitant manner.

INCOGITATIVE
In*cog"i*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Not cogitative; not thinking; wanting the power of thought; as,
a vegetable is an incogitative being. Locke.

INCOGITATIVITY
In*cog`i*ta*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being incogitative; want of thought or of the
power of thinking. Wollaston.

INCOGNITA
In*cog"ni*ta, n. Etym: [See Incognito.]

1. A woman who is unknown or in disguise.

2. The state of being in disguise; -- said of a woman.

INCOGNITANT
In*cog"ni*tant, a.

Defn: Ignorant. [Obs.]

INCOGNITO
In*cog"ni*to, a. or adv. Etym: [It. incognito, masc., incognita,
fem., L. incognitus unknown; pref. in- not + cognitus known, p. p. of
cognoscere: cf. F. incognito, fr. It. See Cognition.]

Defn: Without being known; in disguise; in an assumed character, or
under an assumed title; -- said esp. of great personages who
sometimes adopt a disguise or an assumed character in order to avoid
notice.
'T was long ago Since gods come down incognito. Prior.
The prince royal of Persia came thither incognito. Tatler.

INCOGNITO
In*cog"ni*to, n.; pl. Incognitos. Etym: [See Incognito, a.]

1. One unknown or in disguise, or under an assumed character or name.

2. The assumption of disguise or of a feigned character; the state of
being in disguise or not recognized.
His incognito was endangered. Sir W. Scott.

INCOGNIZABLE
In*cog"ni*za*ble, a.

Defn: Not cognizable; incapable of being recognized, known, or
distinguished. H. Spenser.
The Lettish race, not a primitive stock of the Slavi, but a distinct
branch, now become incognizable. Tooke.

INCOGNIZANCE
In*cog"ni*zance, n.

Defn: Failure to cognize, apprehended, or notice.
This incognizance may be explained. Sir W. Hamilton.

INCOGNIZANT
In*cog"ni*zant, a.

Defn: Not cognizant; failing to apprehended or notice.
Of the several operations themselves, as acts of volition, we are
wholly incognizant. Sir W. Hamilton.

INCOGNOSCIBLE
In`cog*nos"ci*ble, a.

Defn: Incognizable.
 -- In`cog*nos"ci*bil"i*ty, n.

INCOHERENCE; INCOHERENCY
In`co*her"ence, In`co*her"en*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incohérence.]

1. The quality or state of being incoherent; want of coherence; want
of cohesion or adherence. Boyle.

2. Want of connection; incongruity; inconsistency; want of agreement
or dependence of one part on another; as, the incoherence of
arguments, facts, etc.
Incoherences in matter, and suppositions without proofs, put
handsomely together, are apt to pass for strong reason. Locke.

3. That which is incoherent.
Crude incoherencies . . . and nauseous tautologies. South.

INCOHERENT
In`co*her"ent, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + coherent: cf. F.
incohérent.]

1. Not coherent; wanting cohesion; loose; unconnected; physically
disconnected; not fixed to each; -- said of material substances.
Woodward.

2. Wanting coherence or agreement; incongruous; inconsistent; having
no dependence of one part on another; logically disconnected. "The
same rambling, incoherent manner." Bp. Warburton.

INCOHERENTIFIC
In`co*her`en*tif"ic, a. Etym: [E. incoherent + L. facere to make.]

Defn: Causing incoherence. [R.]

INCOHERENTLY
In`co*her"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an incoherent manner; without due connection of parts.

INCOHERENTNESS
In`co*her"ent*ness, n.

Defn: Incoherence.

INCOINCIDENCE
In`co*in"ci*dence, n.

Defn: The quality of being incoincident; want of coincidence. [R.]

INCOINCIDENT
In`co*in"ci*dent, a.

Defn: Not coincident; not agreeing in time, in place, or principle.

INCOLUMITY
In`co*lu"mi*ty, n. Etym: [L. incolumitas, fr. incolumis uninjured,
safe; perh. fr. in intens. + (doubtful) columis safe.]

Defn: Safety; security. [Obs.] Howell.

INCOMBER
In*com"ber, v. t.

Defn: See Encumber.

INCOMBINE
In`com*bine", v. i.

Defn: To be incapable of combining; to disagree; to differ. [Obs.]
Milton.

INCOMBUSTIBILITY
In`com*bus`ti*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incombustilité.]

Defn: The quality of being incombustible.

INCOMBUSTIBLE
In`com*bus"ti*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + combustible: cf. F.
incombustible.]

Defn: Not combustible; not capable of being burned, decomposed, or
consumed by fire; uninflammable; as, asbestus is an incombustible
substance; carbon dioxide is an incombustible gas. Incombustible
cloth, a tissue of amianthus or asbestus; also, a fabric imbued with
an incombustible substance.
 -- In`com*bus"ti*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`com*bus"ti*bly, adv.

INCOME
In"come, n.

1. A coming in; entrance; admittance; ingress; infusion. [Obs.] Shak.
More abundant incomes of light and strength from God. Bp. Rust.
At mine income I louted low. Drant.

2. That which is caused to enter; inspiration; influence; hence,
courage or zeal imparted. [R.]
I would then make in and steep My income in their blood. Chapman.

3. That gain which proceeds from labor, business, property, or
capital of any kind, as the produce of a farm, the rent of houses,
the proceeds of professional business, the profits of commerce or of
occupation, or the interest of money or stock in funds, etc.;
revenue; receipts; salary; especially, the annual receipts of a
private person, or a corporation, from property; as, a large income.
No fields afford So large an income to the village lord. Dryden.

4. (Physiol.)

Defn: That which is taken into the body as food; the ingesta; --
sometimes restricted to the nutritive, or digestible, portion of the
food. See Food. Opposed to output. Income bond, a bond issued on the
income of the corporation or company issuing it, and the interest of
which is to be paid from the earnings of the company before any
dividends are made to stockholders; -- issued chiefly or exclusively
by railroad companies.
 -- Income tax, a tax upon a person's incomes, emoluments, profits,
etc., or upon the excess beyond a certain amount.

Syn.
 -- Gain; profit; proceeds; salary; revenue; receipts; interest;
emolument; produce.

INCOMER
In"com`er, n.

1. One who comes in.
Outgoers and incomers. Lew Wallace.

2. One who succeeds another, as a tenant of land, houses, etc. [Eng.]

INCOMING
In"com`ing, a.

1. Coming in; accruing.
A full incoming profit on the product of his labor. Burke.

2. Coming in, succeeding, or following, as occupant or possessor; as,
in incoming tenant.

INCOMING
In"com`ing, n.

1. The act of coming in; arrival.
The incomings and outgoings of the trains. Dickens.

2. Income; gain. [R.]
Many incomings are subject to great fluctuations. Tooke.

INCOMITY
In*com"i*ty, n.

Defn: Want of comity; incivility; rudeness. [R.]

IN COMMENDAM
In com*men"dam. Etym: [See Commendam.] (Law)

Defn: See Commendam, and Partnership in Commendam, under Partnership.

INCOMMENSURABILITY
In`com*men`su*ra*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incommensurabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being incommensurable. Reid.

INCOMMENSURABLE
In`com*men"su*ra*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + commensurable: cf. F.
incommensurable.]

Defn: Not commensurable; having no common measure or standard of
comparison; as, quantities are incommensurable when no third quantity
can be found that is an aliquot part of both; the side and diagonal
of a square are incommensurable with each other; the diameter and
circumference of a circle are incommensurable.
They are quantities incommensurable. Burke.
-- In`com*men"su*ra*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`com*men"su*ra*bly, adv.

INCOMMENSURABLE
In`com*men"su*ra*ble, n.

Defn: One of two or more quantities which have no common measure.

INCOMMENSURATE
In`com*men"su*rate, a.

1. Not commensurate; not admitting of a common measure;
incommensurable.

2. Not of equal of sufficient measure or extent; not adequate; as,
our means are incommensurate to our wants.

Syn.
 -- Inadequate; insufficient; disproportionate.
 -- In`com*men"su*rate*ly, adv.
 -- In`com*men"su*rate*ness, n.

INCOMMISCIBLE
In`com*mis"ci*ble, a. Etym: [L. incommiscibilis; pref. in- not +
commiscibilis that can be mingled.]

Defn: Not commiscible; not mixable.

INCOMMIXTURE
In`com*mix"ture, n.

Defn: A state of being unmixed; separateness. Sir T. Browne.

INCOMMODATE
In*com"mo*date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incommodated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incommodating.] Etym: [L. incommodare. See Incommode.]

Defn: To incommode. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

INCOMMODATION
In*com`mo*da"tion, n.

Defn: The state of being incommoded; inconvenience. [Obs.]

INCOMMODE
In`com*mode", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incommoded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incommoding.] Etym: [F. incommoder, L. incommodare inconvenient;
pref. in- not + commodus convenient. See Commodious.]

Defn: To give inconvenience or trouble to; to disturb or molest; to
discommode; to worry; to put out; as, we are incommoded by want of
room.

Syn.
 -- To annoy; disturb; trouble; molest; disaccomodate; inconvenience;
disquiet; vex; plague.

INCOMMODE
In`com*mode", n.

Defn: An inconvenience. [R.] Strype.

INCOMMODEMENT
In`com*mode"ment, n.

Defn: The act of incommoded. [Obs.] Cheyne.

INCOMMODIOUS
In`com*mo"di*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + commodious: cf. LL.
incommodious, L. incommodus, F. incommode.]

Defn: Tending to incommode; not commodious; not affording ease or
advantage; unsuitable; giving trouble; inconvenient; annoying; as, an
incommodious seat; an incommodious arrangement.
 -- In`com*mo"di*ous*ly, adv.
 -- In`com*mo"di*ous*ness, n.

INCOMMODITY
In`com*mo"di*ty, n.; pl. Incommodities. Etym: [L. incommoditas: cf.
F. incommodité. See Incommodious.]

Defn: Inconvenience; trouble; annoyance; disadvantage; encumbrance.
[Archaic] Bunyan.
A great incommodity to the body. Jer. Taylor.
Buried him under a bulk of incommodities. Hawthorne.

INCOMMUNICABILITY
In`com*mu`ni*ca*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incommunicabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being incommunicable, or incapable of
being imparted.

INCOMMUNICABLE
In`com*mu"ni*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. incommunicabilis: cf. F.
incommunicable. See In- not, and Communicable.]

Defn: Not communicable; incapable of being communicated, shared,
told, or imparted, to others.
Health and understanding are incommunicable. Southey.
Those incommunicable relations of the divine love. South.
-- In`com*mu"ni*ca*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`com*mu"ni*ca*bly, adv.

INCOMMUNICATED
In`com*mu"ni*ca`ted, a.

Defn: Not communicated or imparted. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

INCOMMUNICATING
In`com*mu"ni*ca`ting, a.

Defn: Having no communion or intercourse with each other. [Obs.] Sir
M. Hale.

INCOMMUNICATIVE
In`com*mu"ni*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Not communicative; not free or apt to impart to others in
conversation; reserved; silent; as, the messenger was
incommunicative; hence, not disposed to hold fellowship or
intercourse with others; exclusive.
The Chinese . . . an incommunicative nation. C. Buchanan.
-- In`com*mu"ni*ca*tive*ly, adv.
 -- In`com*mu"ni*ca*tive*ness, n. Lamb.
His usual incommunicativeness. G. Eliot.

INCOMMUTABILITY
In`com*mu`ta*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. incommutabilitas: cf. F.
incommutabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being incommutable.

INCOMMUTABLE
In`com*mut"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. incommutabilis: cf. F. incommutable.
See In- not, and Commutable.]

Defn: Not commutable; not capable of being exchanged with, or
substituted for, another. Cudworth.
 -- In`com*mut"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`com*mut"a*bly, adv.

INCOMPACT; INCOMPACTED
In`com*pact", In`com*pact"ed, a.

Defn: Not compact; not having the parts firmly united; not solid;
incoherent; loose; discrete. Boyle.

INCOMPARABLE
In*com"pa*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. incomparabilis: cf. F. incomparable.
See In- not, and Comparable.]

Defn: Not comparable; admitting of no comparison with others;
unapproachably eminent; without a peer or equal; matchless; peerless;
transcendent.
A merchant of incomparable wealth. Shak.
A new hypothesis . . . which hath the incomparable Sir Isaac Newton
for a patron. Bp. Warburton.
-- In*com"pa*ra*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*com"pa*ra*bly, adv.
Delights incomparably all those corporeal things. Bp. Wilkins.

INCOMPARED
In`com*pared", a.

Defn: Peerless; incomparable. [Obs.] Spenser.

INCOMPASS
In*com"pass, v. t.

Defn: See Encompass.

INCOMPASSION
In`com*pas"sion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + compassion: cf. F.
incompassion.]

Defn: Want of compassion or pity. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson.

INCOMPASSIONATE
In`com*pas"sion*ate, a.

Defn: Not compassionate; void of pity or of tenderness; remorseless.
 -- In`com*pas"sion*ate*ly, adv.
 -- In`com*pas"sion*ate*ness, n.

INCOMPATIBILITY
In`com*pat`i*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. -ties (. Etym: [Cf. F.
incompatibilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being incompatible; inconsistency;
irreconcilableness.

INCOMPATIBLE
In`com*pat"i*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + compatible: cf. F.
incompatible.] [It was formerly sometimes written incompetible.]

1. Not compatible; so differing as to be incapable of harmonious
combination or coexistence; inconsistent in thought or being;
irreconcilably disagreeing; as, persons of incompatible tempers;
incompatible colors, desires, ambition.
A strength and obduracy of character incompatible with his meek and
innocent nature. Southey.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Incapable of being together without mutual reaction or
decomposition, as certain medicines. Incompatible terms (Logic),
terms which can not be combined in thought.

Syn.
 -- Inconsistent; incongruous; dissimilar; irreconcilable;
unsuitable; disagreeing; inharmonious; discordant; repugnant;
contradictory. See Inconsistent.

INCOMPATIBLE
In`com*pat"i*ble, n. (Med. & Chem.)

Defn: An incompatible substance; esp., in pl., things which can not
be placed or used together because of a change of chemical
composition or of opposing medicinal qualities; as, the incompatibles
of iron.

INCOMPATIBLENESS
In`com*pat"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being incompatible; incompatibility.

INCOMPATIBLY
In`com*pat"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an incompatible manner; inconsistently; incongruously.

INCOMPETENCE; INCOMPETENCY
In*com"pe*tence, In*com"pe*tency, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incompétence.]

1. The quality or state of being incompetent; want of physical,
intellectual, or moral ability; insufficiency; inadequacy; as, the
incompetency of a child hard labor, or of an idiot for intellectual
efforts. "Some inherent incompetency." Gladstone.

2. (Law)

Defn: Want of competency or legal fitness; incapacity;
disqualification, as of a person to be heard as a witness, or to act
as a juror, or of a judge to try a cause.

Syn.
 -- Inability; insufficiency; inadequacy; disqualification;
incapability; unfitness.

INCOMPETENT
In*com"pe*tent, a. Etym: [L. incompetens: cf. F. incompétent. See In-
not, and Competent.]

1. Not competent; wanting in adequate strength, power, capacity,
means, qualifications, or the like; incapable; unable; inadequate;
unfit.
Incompetent to perform the duties of the place. Macaulay.

2. (Law)

Defn: Wanting the legal or constitutional qualifications;
inadmissible; as, a person professedly wanting in religious belief is
an incompetent witness in a court of law or equity; incompetent
evidence.
Richard III. had a resolution, out of hatred to his brethren, to
disable their issues, upon false and incompetent pretexts, the one of
attainder, the other of illegitimation. Bacon.

3. Not lying within one's competency, capacity, or authorized power;
not permissible.

Syn.
 -- Incapable; unable; inadequate; insufficient; inefficient;
disqualified; unfit; improper.
 -- Incompetent, Incapable. Incompetent is a relative term, denoting
a want of the requisite qualifications for performing a given act,
service, etc.; incapable is absolute in its meaning, denoting want of
power, either natural or moral. We speak of a man as incompetent to a
certain task, of an incompetent judge, etc. We say of an idiot that
he is incapable of learning to read; and of a man distinguished for
his honor, that he is incapable of a mean action.

INCOMPETENTLY
In*com"pe*tent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an competent manner; inadequately; unsuitably.

INCOMPETIBILITY
In`com*pet`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: See Incompatibility.

INCOMPETIBLE
In`com*pet"i*ble, a.

Defn: See Incompatible.

INCOMPLETE
In`com*plete", a. Etym: [L. incompletus: cf. F. incomplet. See In-
not, and Complete.]

1. Not complete; not filled up; not finished; not having all its
parts, or not having them all adjusted; imperfect; defective.
A most imperfect and incomplete divine. Milton.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Wanting any of the usual floral organs; -- said of a flower.
Incomplete equation (Alg.), an equation some of whose terms are
wanting; or one in which the coefficient of some one or more of the
powers of the unknown quantity is equal to 0.

INCOMPLETELY
In`com*plete"ly, adv.

Defn: In an incomplete manner.

INCOMPLETENESS
In`com*plete"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being incomplete; imperfectness; defectiveness.
Boyle.

INCOMPLETION
In`com*ple"tion, n.

Defn: Want of completion; incompleteness. Smart.

INCOMPLEX
In`com*plex", a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + complex: cf. F. incomplexe.]

Defn: Not complex; uncompounded; simple. Barrow.

INCOMPLIABLE
In`com*pli"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not compliable; not conformable.

INCOMPLIANCE
In`com*pli"ance, n.

1. The quality or state of being incompliant; unyielding temper;
obstinacy.
Self-conceit produces peevishness and incompliance of humor in things
lawful and indifferent. Tillotson.

2. Refusal or failure to comply. Strype.

INCOMPLIANT
In`com*pli"ant, a.

Defn: Not compliant; unyielding to request, solicitation, or command;
stubborn.
 -- In`com*pli"ant*ly, adv.

INCOMPOSED
In`com*posed", a.

Defn: Disordered; disturbed. [Obs.] Milton.
 -- In`com*po"sed*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- In`com*pos"ed*ness, n. [Obs.]

INCOMPOSITE
In`com*pos"ite, a. Etym: [L. incompositus. See Composite.]

Defn: Not composite; uncompounded; simple. Incomposite numbers. See
Prime numbers, under Prime.

INCOMPOSSIBLE
In`com*pos"si*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + compossible: cf. F.
incompossible.]

Defn: Not capable of joint existence; incompatible; inconsistent.
[Obs.]
Ambition and faith . . . are . . . incompossible. Jer. Taylor.
-- In`com*pos`si*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.]

INCOMPREHENSE
In*com`pre*hense", a. Etym: [L. incomprehensus.]

Defn: Incomprehensible. [Obs.] "Incomprehense in virtue." Marston.

INCOMPREHENSIBILITY
In*com`pre*hen`si*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incompréhensibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being incomprehensible, or beyond the reach of
human intellect; incomprehensibleness; inconceivability;
inexplicability.
The constant, universal sense of all antiquity unanimously confessing
an incomprehensibility in many of the articles of the Christian
faith. South.

INCOMPREHENSIBLE
In*com`pre*hen"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. incomprehensibilis: cf. F.
incompréhensible. See In- not, and Comprehensible.]

1. Not capable of being contained within limits.
An infinite and incomprehensible substance. Hooker.

2. Not capable of being comprehended or understood; beyond the reach
of the human intellect; inconceivable.
And all her numbered stars that seem to roll Spaces incomprehensible.
Milton.
-- In*com`pre*hen"si*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*com`pre*hen"si*bly, adv.

INCOMPREHENSION
In*com`pre*hen"sion, n.

Defn: Want of comprehension or understanding. "These mazes and
incomprehensions." Bacon.

INCOMPREHENSIVE
In*com`pre*hen"sive, a.

Defn: Not comprehensive; not capable of including or of
understanding; not extensive; limited.
 -- In*com`pre*hen"sive*ly, a. Sir W. Hamilton.
 -- In*com`pre*hen"sive*ness, n. T. Warton.

INCOMPRESSIBILITY
In`com*press`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incompressibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being incompressible, or incapable of reduction
in volume by pressure; -- formerly supposed to be a property of
liquids.
The incompressibility of water is not absolute. Rees.

INCOMPRESSIBLE
In`com*press"i*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + compressible: cf. F.
incompressible.]

Defn: Not compressible; incapable of being reduced by force or
pressure into a smaller compass or volume; resisting compression; as,
many liquids and solids appear to be almost incompressible.
 -- In`com*press"i*ble*ness, n.

INCOMPUTABLE
In`com*put"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not computable.

INCONCEALABLE
In`con*ceal"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not concealable. "Inconcealable imperfections." Sir T. Browne.

INCONCEIVABILITY
In`con*ceiv`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being inconceivable; inconceivableness.
The inconceivability of the Infinite. Mansel.

INCONCEIVABLE
In`con*ceiv"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + conceivable: cf. F.
inconcevable.]

Defn: Not conceivable; incapable of being conceived by the mind; not
explicable by the human intellect, or by any known principles or
agencies; incomprehensible; as, it is inconceivable to us how the
will acts in producing muscular motion.
It is inconceivable to me that a spiritual substance should represent
an extended figure. Locke.
-- In`con*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`con*ceiv"a*bly, adv.
The inconceivableness of a quality existing without any subject to
possess it. A. Tucker.

INCONCEPTIBLE
In`con*cep"ti*ble, a.

Defn: Inconceivable. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

INCONCERNING
In`con*cern"ing, a.

Defn: Unimportant; trifling. [Obs.] "Trifling and inconcerning
matters." Fuller.

INCONCINNE
In`con*cinne", a. Etym: [See Inconcinnous.]

Defn: Dissimilar; incongruous; unsuitable. [Obs.] Cudworth.

INCONCINNITY
In`con*cin"ni*ty, n. Etym: [L. inconcinnitas.]

Defn: Want of concinnity or congruousness; unsuitableness.
There is an inconcinnity in admitting these words. Trench.

INCONCINNOUS
In`con*cin"nous, a. Etym: [L. inconcinnus. See In- not, and
Concinnity.]

Defn: Not concinnous; unsuitable; discordant. [Obs.] Cudworth.

INCONCLUDENT
In`con*clud"ent, a.

Defn: Not inferring a conclusion or consequence; not conclusive.
[Obs.]

INCONCLUDING
In`con*clud"ing, a.

Defn: Inferring no consequence. [Obs.]

INCONCLUSIVE
In`con*clu"sive, a.

Defn: Not conclusive; leading to no conclusion; not closing or
settling a point in debate, or a doubtful question; as, evidence is
inconclusive when it does not exhibit the truth of a disputed case in
such a manner as to satisfy the mind, and put an end to debate or
doubt.
Arguments . . . inconclusive and impertinent. South.
-- In`con*clu"sive*ly, adv.
 -- In`con*clu"sive*ness, n.

INCONCOCT
In`con*coct", a. Etym: [L. pref. in- not + concoctus, p. p. of
concoquere. See Concoct.]

Defn: Inconcocted. [Obs.]

INCONCOCTED
In`con*coct"ed, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + concocted.]

Defn: Imperfectly digested, matured, or ripened. [Obs.] Bacon.

INCONCOCTION
In`con*coc"tion, n.

Defn: The state of being undigested; unripeness; immaturity. [Obs.]
Bacon.

INCONCRETE
In*con"crete, a. Etym: [L. inconcretus incorporeal.]

Defn: Not concrete. [R.] L. Andrews.

INCONCURRING
In`con*cur"ring, a.

Defn: Not concurring; disagreeing. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

INCONCUSSIBLE
In`con*cus"si*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + L. concussibilis that
can be shaken. See Concussion.]

Defn: Not concussible; that cannot be shaken.

INCONDENSABILITY; INCONDENSIBILITY
In`con*den`sa*bil"i*ty, In`con*den`si*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being incondensable.

INCONDENSABLE; INCONDENSIBLE
In`con*den"sa*ble, In`con*den"si*ble, a.

Defn: Not condensable; incapable of being made more dense or compact,
or reduced to liquid form.

INCONDITE
In"con*dite, a. Etym: [L. inconditus; pref. in- not + conditus, p. p.
of condere to put or join together. See Condition.]

Defn: Badly put together; inartificial; rude; unpolished; irregular.
"Carol incondite rhymes." J. Philips.

INCONDITIONAL
In`con*di"tion*al, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + conditional: cf. F.
inconditionnel.]

Defn: Unconditional. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

INCONDITIONATE
In`con*di"tion*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + conditionate: cf. F.
inconditionné.]

Defn: Not conditioned; not limited; absolute. [Obs.] Boyle.

INCONFORM
In`con*form", a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + conform.]

Defn: Unconformable. [Obs.] Gauden.

INCONFORMABLE
In`con*form"a*ble, a.

Defn: Unconformable. [Obs.]

INCONFORMITY
In`con*form"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inconformité.]

Defn: Want of conformity; nonconformity. [Obs.]

INCONFUSED
In`con*fused", a.

Defn: Not confused; distinct. [Obs.]

INCONFUSION
In`con*fu"sion n.

Defn: Freedom from confusion; distinctness. [Obs.] Bacon.

INCONFUTABLE
In`con*fut"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not confutable.
 -- In`con*fut"a*bly, adv. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

INCONGEALABLE
In`con*geal"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. incongelabilis. See Congeal.]

Defn: Not congealable; incapable of being congealed.
 -- In`con*geal"a*ble*ness, n.

INCONGENIAL
In`con*gen"ial, a.

Defn: Not congenial; uncongenial. [R.] -- In`con*ge`ni*al"i*ty. [R.]

INCONGRUENCE
In*con"gru*ence, n. Etym: [L. incongruentia.]

Defn: Want of congruence; incongruity. Boyle.

INCONGRUENT
In*con"gru*ent, a. Etym: [L. incongruens. See In- not, and
Congruent.]

Defn: Incongruous. Sir T. Elyot.

INCONGRUITY
In`con*gru"i*ty, n.; pl. Incongruities. Etym: [Pref. in- not +
congruity: cf. F. incongruité.]

1. The quality or state of being incongruous; want of congruity;
unsuitableness; inconsistency; impropriety.
The fathers make use of this acknowledgment of the incongruity of
images to the Deity, from thence to prove the incongruity of the
worship of them. Bp. Stillingfleet.

2. Disagreement of parts; want of symmetry or of harmony. [Obs.]

3. That which is incongruous; want of congruity.

INCONGRUOUS
In*con"gru*ous, a. Etym: [L. incongruus. See In- not, and Congruous.]

Defn: Not congruous; reciprocally disagreeing; not capable of
harmonizing or readily assimilating; inharmonious; inappropriate;
unsuitable; not fitting; inconsistent; improper; as, an incongruous
remark; incongruous behavior, action, dress, etc. "Incongruous
mixtures of opinions." I. Taylor. "Made up of incongruous parts."
Macaulay.
Incongruous denotes that kind of absence of harmony or suitableness
of which the taste and experience of men takes cognizance. C. J.
Smith.
Incongruous numbers (Arith.), two numbers, which, with respect to a
third, are such that their difference can not be divided by it
without a remainder, the two numbers being said to be incongruous
with respect to the third; as, twenty-five are incongruous with
respect to four.

Syn.
 -- Inconsistent; unsuitable; inharmonious; disagreeing; absurd;
inappropriate; unfit; improper. See Inconsistent.
 -- In*con"gru*ous*ly, adv.
 -- In*con"gru*ous*ness, n.

INCONNECTED
In`con*nect"ed, a.

Defn: Not connected; disconnected. [R.] Bp. Warburton.

INCONNECTION
In`con*nec"tion, n.

Defn: Disconnection.

INCONNEXEDLY
In`con*nex"ed*ly, adv. Etym: [Pref. in- not + connexed (p. p. of
connex) + -ly.]

Defn: Not connectedly; without connection. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

INCONSCIONABLE
In*con"scion*a*ble, a.

Defn: Unconscionable. [Obs.] Spenser.

INCONSCIOUS
In*con"scious, a.

Defn: Unconscious. [Obs.]

INCONSECUTIVENESS
In`con*sec"u*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of not being consecutive. J. H. Newman.

INCONSEQUENCE
In*con"se*quence, n. Etym: [L. inconsequentia: cf. F. inconséquence.]

Defn: The quality or state of being inconsequent; want of just or
logical inference or argument; inconclusiveness. Bp. Stillingfleet.
Strange, that you should not see the inconsequence of your own
reasoning! Bp. Hurd.

INCONSEQUENT
In*con"se*quent, a. Etym: [L. inconsequens: cf. F. inconséquent. See
In- not, and Consequent.]

Defn: Not following from the premises; not regularly inferred;
invalid; not characterized by logical method; illogical; arbitrary;
inconsistent; of no consequence.
Loose and inconsequent conjectures. Sir T. Browne.

INCONSEQUENTIAL
In*con`se*quen"tial, a.

Defn: Not regularly following from the premises; hence, irrelevant;
unimportant; of no consequence. Chesterfield.
 -- In*con`se*quen"tial*ly, adv.

INCONSEQUENTIALITY
In*con`se*quen`ti*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being inconsequential.

INCONSEQUENTNESS
In*con"se*quent*ness, n.

Defn: Inconsequence.

INCONSIDERABLE
In`con*sid"er*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not considerable; unworthy of consideration or notice;
unimportant; small; trivial; as, an inconsiderable distance; an
inconsiderable quantity, degree, value, or sum. "The baser scum and
inconsiderable dregs of Rome." Stepney.
 -- In`con*sid"er*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`con*sid"er*a*bly, adv.

INCONSIDERACY
In`con*sid"er*a*cy, n.

Defn: Inconsiderateness; thoughtlessness. [Obs.] Chesterfield.

INCONSIDERATE
In`con*sid"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. inconsideratus. See In- not, and
Considerate.]

1. Not considerate; not attentive to safety or to propriety; not
regarding the rights or feelings of others; hasty; careless;
thoughtless; heedless; as, the young are generally inconsiderate;
inconsiderate conduct.
It is a very unhappy token of our corruption, that therinconsiderate
among us as to sacrifice morality to politics. Addison.

2. Inconsiderable. [Obs.] E. Terry.

Syn.
 -- Thoughtless; inattentive; inadvertent; heedless; negligent;
improvident; careless; imprudent; indiscreet; incautious;
injudicious; rash; hasty.

INCONSIDERATELY
In`con*sid"er*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inconsiderate manner.

INCONSIDERATENESS
In`con*sid"er*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inconsiderate. Tillotson.

INCONSIDERATION
In`con*sid`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. inconsideratio: cf. F.
inconsidération.]

Defn: Want of due consideration; inattention to consequences;
inconsiderateness.
Blindness of mind, inconsideration, precipitation. Jer. Taylor.
Not gross, willful, deliberate, crimes; but rather the effects of
inconsideration. Sharp.

INCONSISTENCE
In`con*sist"ence, n.

Defn: Inconsistency.

INCONSISTENCY
In`con*sist"en*cy, n.; pl. Inconsistencies. Etym: [Cf. F.
inconsistance.]

1. The quality or state of being inconsistent; discordance in respect
to sentiment or action; such contrariety between two things that both
can not exist or be true together; disagreement; incompatibility.
There is a perfect inconsistency between that which is of debt and
that which is of free gift. South.

2. Absurdity in argument ore narration; incoherence or
irreconcilability in the parts of a statement, argument, or
narration; that which is inconsistent.
If a man would register all his opinions upon love, politics,
religion, and learning, what a bundle of inconsistencies and
contradictions would appear at last! Swift.

3. Want of stability or uniformity; unsteadiness; changeableness;
variableness.
Mutability of temper, and inconsistency with ourselves, is the
greatest weakness of human nature. Addison.

INCONSISTENT
In`con*sist"ent, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + consistent: cf. F.
inconsistant.]

1. Not consistent; showing inconsistency; irreconcilable; discordant;
at variance, esp. as regards character, sentiment, or action;
incompatible; incongruous; contradictory.

Compositions of this nature . . . show that wisdom and virtue are far
from being inconsistent with politeness and good humor. Addison.

2. Not exhibiting uniformity of sentiment, steadiness to principle,
etc.; unequal; fickle; changeable.
Ah, how unjust to nature, and himself, Is thoughtless, thankless,
inconsistent man. Young.

Syn.
 -- Incompatible; incongruous; irreconcilable; discordant; repugnant;
contradictory.
 -- Inconsistent, Incongruous, Incompatible. Things are incongruous
when they are not suited to each other, so that their union is
unbecoming; inconsistent when they are opposed to each other, so as
render it improper or wrong; incompatible when they can not coexist,
and it is therefore impossible to unite them. Habitual levity of mind
is incongruous with the profession of a clergyman; it is inconsistent
with his ordination vows; it is incompatible with his permanent
usefulness. Incongruity attaches to the modes and qualities of
things; incompatibility attaches to their essential attributes;
inconsistency attaches to the actions, sentiments, etc., of men.

INCONSISTENTLY
In`con*sist"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inconsistent manner.

INCONSISTENTNESS
In`con*sist"ent*ness, n.

Defn: Inconsistency. [R.]

INCONSISTING
In`con*sist"ing, a.

Defn: Inconsistent. [Obs.]

INCONSOLABLE
In`con*sol"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. inconsolabilis: cf. F. inconsolable.
See In- not, and Console.]

Defn: Not consolable; incapable of being consoled; grieved beyond
susceptibility of comfort; disconsolate. Dryden.
With inconsolable distress she griev'd, And from her cheek the rose
of beauty fied. Falconer.
-- In`con*sol"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`con*sol"a*bly, adv.

INCONSONANCE; INCONSONANCY
In*con"so*nance, In*con"so*nan*cy, n.

Defn: Want of consonance or harmony of sound, action, or thought;
disagreement.

INCONSONANT
In*con"so*nant, a. Etym: [L. inconsonans. See In- not, and
Consonant.]

Defn: Not consonant or agreeing; inconsistent; discordant.
 -- In*con"so*nant*ly, adv.

INCONSPICUOUS
In`con*spic"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. inconspicuus. See In- not, and
Conspicuous.]

Defn: Not conspicuous or noticeable; hardly discernible.
 -- In`con*spic"u*ous*ly, adv.
 -- In`con*spic"u*ous*ness, n. Boyle.

INCONSTANCE
In*con"stance, n. Etym: [F. See Inconstancy.]

Defn: Inconstancy. Chaucer.

INCONSTANCY
In*con"stan*cy, n. Etym: [L. inconstantia.]

Defn: The quality or state of being inconstant; want of constancy;
mutability; fickleness; variableness.
For unto knight there was no greater shame, Than lightness and
inconstancie in love. Spenser.

INCONSTANT
In*con"stant, a. Etym: [L. inconstans: cf. F. inconstant. See In-
not, and Constant.]

Defn: Not constant; not stable or uniform; subject to change of
character, appearance, opinion, inclination, or purpose, etc.; not
firm; unsteady; fickle; changeable; variable; -- said of persons or
things; as, inconstant in love or friendship. "The inconstant moon."
Shak.
While we, inquiring phantoms of a day, Inconstant as the shadows we
survey! Boyse.

Syn.
 -- Mutable; fickle; volatile; unsteady; unstable; changeable;
variable; wavering; fluctuating.

INCONSTANTLY
In*con"stant*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inconstant manner.

INCONSUMABLE
In`con*sum"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not consumable; incapable of being consumed, wasted, or spent.
Paley.
 -- In`con*sum"a*bly, adv.

INCONSUMMATE
In`con*sum"mate, a. Etym: [L. inconsummatus. See In- not, and
Consummate.]

Defn: Not consummated; not finished; incomplete. Sir M. Hale.
 -- In`con*sum"mate*ness, n.

INCONSUMPTIBLE
In`con*sump"ti*ble, a. Etym: [L. inconsumptibilis.]

Defn: Inconsumable. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby.

INCONTAMINATE
In`con*tam"i*nate, a. Etym: [L. incontamina. See In- not, and not,
and Contaminate.]

Defn: Not contaminated; pure. Moore.
 -- In`con*tam"i*nate*ness, n.

INCONTENTATION
In*con`ten*ta"tion, n. Etym: [See In- not, and Content.]

Defn: Discontent. [Obs.] Goodwin.

INCONTESTABILITY
In`con*test`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being incontestable.

INCONTESTABLE
In`con*test"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + contestable: cf. F.
incontestable.]

Defn: Not contestable; not to be disputed; that cannot be called in
question or controverted; incontrovertible; indisputable; as,
incontestable evidence, truth, or facts. Locke.

Syn.
 -- Incontrovertible; indisputable; irrefragable; undeniable;
unquestionable; intuitable; certain.
 -- In`con*test"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`con*test"a*bly, adv.

INCONTESTED
In`con*test"ed, a.

Defn: Not contested. Addison.

INCONTIGUOUS
In`con*tig"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. incontiguus that can not be touched.
See In- not, and Contiguous.]

Defn: Not contiguous; not adjoining or in contact; separate. Boyle.
 -- In`con*tig"u*ous*ly, adv.

INCONTINENCE; INCONTINENCY
In*con"ti*nence, In*con"ti*nen*cy, n. Etym: [L. incontinentia: cf. F.
incontinence.]

1. Incapacity to hold; hence, incapacity to hold back or restrain;
the quality or state of being incontinent; want of continence;
failure to restrain the passions or appetites; indulgence of lust;
lewdness.
That Satan tempt you not for your incontinency. 1 Cor. vii. 5.
From the rash hand of bold incontinence. Milton.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The inability of any of the animal organs to restrain the
natural evacuations, so that the discharges are involuntary; as,
incontinence of urine.

INCONTINENT
In*con"ti*nent, a. Etym: [L. incontinens: cf. F. incontinent. See In-
not, and Continent.]

1. Not continent; uncontrolled; not restraining the passions or
appetites, particularly the sexual appetite; indulging unlawful lust;
unchaste; lewd.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Unable to restrain natural evacuations.

INCONTINENT
In*con"ti*nent, n.

Defn: One who is unchaste. B. Jonson.

INCONTINENT
In*con"ti*nent, adv. Etym: [Cf. F. incontinent.]

Defn: Incontinently; instantly immediately. [Obs.]
He says he will return incontinent. Shak.

INCONTINENTLY
In*con"ti*nent*ly, adv.

1. In an incontinent manner; without restraint, or without due
restraint; -- used esp. of the passions or appetites.

2. Immediately; at once; forthwith. [Archaic]
Immediately he sent word to Athens that he would incontinently come
hither with a host of men. Golding.

INCONTRACTED
In`con*tract"ed, a.

Defn: Uncontracted. [Obs.] Blackwall.

INCONTROLLABLE
In`con*trol"la*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + controllable: cf. F.
incontrôlable.]

Defn: Not controllable; uncontrollable.
 -- In`con*trol"la*bly, adv. South.

INCONTROVERTIBILITY
In*con`tro*ver`ti*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being incontrovertible.

INCONTROVERTIBLE
In*con`tro*ver"ti*ble, a.

Defn: Not controvertible; too clear or certain to admit of dispute;
indisputable. Sir T. Browne.
 -- In*con`tro*ver"ti*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*con`tro*ver"ti*bly, adv.

INCONVENIENCE
In`con*ven"ience, n. Etym: [L. inconvenientia inconsistency: cf. OF.
inconvenience.]

1. The quality or condition of being inconvenient; want of
convenience; unfitness; unsuitableness; inexpediency; awkwardness;
as, the inconvenience of the arrangement.
They plead against the inconvenience, not the unlawfulness, . . . of
ceremonies in burial. Hooker.

2. That which gives trouble, embarrassment, or uneasiness;
disadvantage; anything that disturbs quiet, impedes prosperity, or
increases the difficulty of action or success; as, one inconvenience
of life is poverty.
A place upon the top of Mount Athos above all clouds of rain, or
other inconvenience. Sir W. Raleigh.
Man is liable to a great many inconveniences. Tillotson.

Syn.
 -- Incommodiousness; awkwardness; disadvantage; disquiet;
uneasiness; disturbance; annoyance.

INCONVENIENCE
In`con*ven"ience, v. t.

Defn: To put to inconvenience; to incommode; as, to inconvenience a
neighbor.

INCONVENIENCY
In`con*ven"ien*cy, n.

Defn: Inconvenience.

INCONVENIENT
In`con*ven"ient, a. Etym: [L. inconveniens unbefitting: cf. F.
inconvénient. See In- not, and Convenient.]

1. Not becoming or suitable; unfit; inexpedient.

2. Not convenient; giving trouble, uneasiness, or annoyance;
hindering progress or success; uncomfortable; disadvantageous;
incommodious; inopportune; as, an inconvenient house, garment,
arrangement, or time.

Syn.
 -- Unsuitable; uncomfortable; disaccommodating; awkward;
unseasonable; inopportune; incommodious; disadvantageous;
troublesome; cumbersome; embarrassing; objectionable.

INCONVENIENTLY
In`con*ven"ient*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inconvenient manner; incommodiously; unsuitably;
unseasonably.

INCONVERSABLE
In`con*vers"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incommunicative; unsocial; reserved. [Obs.]

INCONVERSANT
In*con"ver*sant, a.

Defn: Not conversant; not acquainted; not versed; unfamiliar.

INCONVERTED
In`con*vert"ed, a.

Defn: Not turned or changed about. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

INCONVERTIBILITY
In`con*vert`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. inconvertibilitas.]

Defn: The quality or state of being inconvertible; not capable of
being exchanged for, or converted into, something else; as, the
inconvertibility of an irredeemable currency, or of lead, into gold.

INCONVERTIBLE
In`con*vert"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. inconvertibilis: cf. F.
inconvertible. See In- not, and Convertible.]

Defn: Not convertible; not capable of being transmuted, changed into,
or exchanged for, something else; as, one metal is inconvertible into
another; bank notes are sometimes inconvertible into specie. Walsh.

INCONVERTIBLENESS
In`con*vert"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Inconvertibility.

INCONVERTIBLY
In`con*vert"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an inconvertible manner.

INCONVINCIBLE
In`con*vin"ci*ble, a. Etym: [L. inconvincibilis. See In- not, and
Convince.]

Defn: Not convincible; incapable of being convinced.
None are so inconvincible as your half-witted people. Gov. of the
Tongue.

INCONVINCIBLY
In`con*vin"ci*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner not admitting of being convinced.

INCONY
In*co"ny, a. Etym: [Cf. Conny, Canny.]

Defn: Unlearned; artless; pretty; delicate. [Obs.]
Most sweet jests! most incony vulgar wit! Shak.

INCOORDINATE; INCOOERDINATE
In`co*ör"di*nate, a.

Defn: Not coördinate.

INCOORDINATION; INCOOERDINATION
In`co*ör`di*na"tion, n.

Defn: Want of coördination; lack of harmonious adjustment or action.
Incoördination of muscular movement (Physiol.), irregularity in
movements resulting from inharmonious action of the muscles in
consequence of loss of voluntary control over them.

INCORONATE
In*cor"o*nate, a. Etym: [Pref. in- in + coronate.]

Defn: Crowned. [R.] Longfellow.

INCORPORAL
In*cor"po*ral, a. Etym: [L. incorporalis. See In- not, and Corporal,
and cf. Incorporeal.]

Defn: Immaterial; incorporeal; spiritual. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.

INCORPORALITY
In*cor`po*ral"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. incorporalitas: cf. F.
incorporalité.]

Defn: Incorporeality. [Obs.] Bailey.

INCORPORALLY
In*cor"po*ral*ly, adv.

Defn: Incorporeally. [Obs.]

INCORPORATE
In*cor"po*rate, a. Etym: [L. incorporatus. See In- not, and
Corporate.]

1. Not consisting of matter; not having a material body; incorporeal;
spiritual.
Moses forbore to speak of angles, and things invisible, and
incorporate. Sir W. Raleigh.

2. Not incorporated; not existing as a corporation; as, an
incorporate banking association.

INCORPORATE
In*cor"po*rate, a. Etym: [L. incorporatus, p. p. of incorporare to
incorporate; pref. in- in + corporare to make into a body. See
Corporate.]

Defn: Corporate; incorporated; made one body, or united in one body;
associated; mixed together; combined; embodied.
As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds Had been incorporate.
Shak.
A fifteenth part of silver incorporate with gold. Bacon.

INCORPORATE
In*cor"po*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incorporated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incorporating.]

1. To form into a body; to combine, as different ingredients. into
one consistent mass.
By your leaves, you shall not stay alone, Till holy church
incorporate two in one. Shak.

2. To unite with a material body; to give a material form to; to
embody.
The idolaters, who worshiped their images as golds, supposed some
spirit to be incorporated therein. Bp. Stillingfleet.

3. To unite with, or introduce into, a mass already formed; as, to
incorporate copper with silver; -- used with with and into.

4. To unite intimately; to blend; to assimilate; to combine into a
structure or organization, whether material or mental; as, to
incorporate provinces into the realm; to incorporate another's ideas
into one's work.
The Romans did not subdue a country to put the inhabitants to fire
and sword, but to incorporate them into their own community. Addison.

5. To form into a legal body, or body politic; to constitute into a
corporation recognized by law, with special functions, rights, duties
and liabilities; as, to incorporate a bank, a railroad company, a
city or town, etc.

INCORPORATE
In*cor"po*rate, v. i.

Defn: To unite in one body so as to make a part of it; to be mixed or
blended; -- usually followed by with.
Painters' colors and ashes do better incorporate will oil. Bacon.
He never suffers wrong so long to grow, And to incorporate with right
so far As it might come to seem the same in show. Daniel.

INCORPORATED
In*cor"po*ra`ted, a.

Defn: United in one body; formed into a corporation; made a legal
entity.

INCORPORATION
In*cor`po*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. incorporatio: cf. F. incorporation.]

1. The act of incorporating, or the state of being incorporated.

2. The union of different ingredients in one mass; mixture;
combination; synthesis.

3. The union of something with a body already existing; association;
intimate union; assimilation; as, the incorporation of conquered
countries into the Roman republic.

4. (Law)
(a) The act of creating a corporation.
(b) A body incorporated; a corporation.

INCORPORATIVE
In*cor"po*ra*tive, a.

Defn: Incorporating or tending to incorporate; as, the incorporative
languages (as of the Basques, North American Indians, etc. ) which
run a whole phrase into one word.
History demonstrates that incorporative unions are solid and
permanent; but that a federal union is weak. W. Belsham.

INCORPORATOR
In*cor"po*ra`tor, n.

Defn: One of a number of persons who gets a company incorporated; one
of the original members of a corporation.

INCORPOREAL
In`cor*po"re*al, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + corporeal: cf. L.
incorporeus. Cf. Incorporal.]

1. Not corporeal; not having a material body or form; not consisting
of matter; immaterial.
Thus incorporeal spirits to smaller forms Reduced their shapes
immense. Milton.
Sense and perception must necessarily proceed from some incorporeal
substance within us. Bentley.

2. (Law)

Defn: Existing only in contemplation of law; not capable of actual
visible seizin or possession; not being an object of sense;
intangible; -- opposed to corporeal. Incorporeal hereditament. See
under Hereditament.

Syn.
 -- Immaterial; unsubstantial; bodiless; spiritual.

INCORPOREALISM
In`cor*po"re*al*ism, n.

Defn: Existence without a body or material form; immateriality.
Cudworth.

INCORPOREALIST
In`cor*po"re*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who believes in incorporealism. Cudworth.

INCORPOREALITY
In`cor*po`re*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being incorporeal or bodiless;
immateriality; incorporealism. G. Eliot.

INCORPOREALLY
In`cor*po"re*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an incorporeal manner. Bacon.

INCORPOREITY
In*cor`po*re"i*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + corporeity: cf. F.
incorporéite.]

Defn: The quality of being incorporeal; immateriality. Berkeley.

INCORPSE
In*corpse", v. t.

Defn: To incorporate. [R.] Shak.

INCORRECT
In`cor*rect", a. Etym: [L. incorrectus: cf. F. incorrect. See In-
not, and Correct.]

1. Not correct; not according to a copy or model, or to established
rules; inaccurate; faulty.
The piece, you think, is incorrect. Pope.

2. Not in accordance with the truth; inaccurate; not exact; as, an
incorrect statement or calculation.

3. Not accordant with duty or morality; not duly regulated or
subordinated; unbecoming; improper; as, incorrect conduct.
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven. Shak.
The wit of the last age was yet more incorrect than their language.
Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Inaccurate; erroneous; wrong; faulty.

INCORRECTION
In`cor*rec"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + correction: cf. F.
incorrection.]

Defn: Want of correction, restraint, or discipline. [Obs.] Arnway.

INCORRECTLY
In`cor*rect"ly, adv.

Defn: Not correctly; inaccurately; not exactly; as, a writing
incorrectly copied; testimony incorrectly stated.

INCORRECTNESS
In`cor*rect"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being incorrect; want of conformity to truth or
to a standard; inaccuracy; inexactness; as incorrectness may in
defect or in redundance.

INCORRESPONDENCE; INCORRESPONDENCY
In*cor`re*spond"ence, In*cor`re*spond"en*cy, n.

Defn: Want of correspondence; disagreement; disproportion. [R.]

INCORRESPONDING
In*cor`re*spond"ing, a.

Defn: Not corresponding; disagreeing. [R.] Coleridge.

INCORRIGIBILITY
In*cor`ri*gi*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incorrigibilité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being incorrigible.
The ingratitude, the incorrigibility, the strange perverseness . . .
of mankind. Barrow.

INCORRIGIBLE
In*cor"ri*gi*ble, a. Etym: [L. incorrigibilis: cf. F. incorrigible.
See In- not, and Corrigible.]

Defn: Not corrigible; incapable of being corrected or amended; bad
beyond correction; irreclaimable; as, incorrigible error.
"Incorrigible fools." Dryden.

INCORRIGIBLE
In*cor"ri*gi*ble, n.

Defn: One who is corrigible; especially, a hardened criminal; as, the
perpetual imprisonment of incorrigibles.

INCORRIGIBLENESS
In*cor"ri*gi*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Incorrigibility. Dr. H. More.

INCORRIGIBLY
In*cor"ri*gi*bly, adv.

Defn: In an incorrigible manner.

INCORRODIBLE
In`cor*rod"i*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being corroded, consumed, or eaten away.

INCORRUPT
In"cor*rupt", a. Etym: [L. incorruptus. See In- not, and Corrupt.]

1. Not affected with corruption or decay; unimpaired; not marred or
spoiled.

2. Not defiled or depraved; pure; sound; untainted; above the
influence of bribes; upright; honest. Milton.
Your Christian principles . . . which will preserve you incorrupt as
individuals. Bp. Hurd.

INCORRUPTED
In"cor*rupt"ed, a.

Defn: Uncorrupted. [Obs.]
Breathed into their incorrupted breasts. Sir J. Davies.

INCORRUPTIBILITY
In`cor*rupt`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. incorruptibilitas: cf. F.
incorruptibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being incorruptible; incapability of corruption.
Holland.

INCORRUPTIBLE
In"cor*rupt"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. incorruptibilis: cf. F.
incorruptible. See In- not, and Corrupt.]

1. Not corruptible; incapable of corruption, decay, or dissolution;
as, gold is incorruptible.
Our bodies shall be changed into incorruptible and immortal
substances. Wake.

2. Incapable of being bribed or morally corrupted; inflexibly just
and upright.

INCORRUPTIBLE
In"cor*rupt"i*ble, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a religious sect which arose in Alexandria, in the reign
of the Emperor Justinian, and which believed that the body of Christ
was incorruptible, and that he suffered hunger, thirst, pain, only in
appearance.

INCORRUPTIBLE
In"cor*rupt"i*ble, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being incorruptible. Boyle.

INCORRUPTIBLENESS
In`cor*rupt"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being incorruptible.  Boyle.

INCORRUPTIBLY
In"cor*rupt"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an incorruptible manner.

INCORRUPTION
In"cor*rup"tion, n. Etym: [L. incorruptio: cf. F. incorruption. See
In- not, and Corruption.]

Defn: The condition or quality of being incorrupt or incorruptible;
absence of, or exemption from, corruption.
It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption. 1 Cor. xv.
42.
The same preservation, or, rather, incorruption, we have observed in
the flesh of turkeys, capons, etc. Sir T. Browne.

INCORRUPTIVE
In`cor*rupt"ive, a. Etym: [L. incorruptivus.]

Defn: Incorruptible; not liable to decay. Akenside.

INCORRUPTLY
In`cor*rupt"ly, adv.

Defn: Without corruption.
To demean themselves incorruptly. Milton.

INCORRUPTNESS
In`cor*rupt"ness, n.

1. Freedom or exemption from decay or corruption.

2. Probity; integrity; honesty. Woodward.

INCRASSATE
In*cras"sate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incrassated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incrassating.] Etym: [L. incrassatus, p. p. of incrassare; pref. in-
in + crassus thick.]

Defn: To make thick or thicker; to thicken; especially, in pharmacy,
to thicken (a liquid) by the mixture of another substance, or by
evaporating the thinner parts.
Acids dissolve or attenuate; alkalies precipitate or incrassate. Sir
I. Newton.
Liquors which time hath incrassated into jellies. Sir T. Browne.

INCRASSATE
In*cras"sate, v. i.

Defn: To become thick or thicker.

INCRASSATE; INCRASSATED
In*cras"sate, In*cras"sa*ted, a. Etym: [L. incrassatus, p. p.]

1. Made thick or thicker; thickened; inspissated.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Thickened; becoming thicker. Martyn.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Swelled out on some particular part, as the antennæ of certain
insects.

INCRASSATION
In`cras*sa"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incrassation.]

1. The act or process of thickening or making thick; the process of
becoming thick or thicker.

2. The state of being incrassated or made thick; inspissation. Sir T.
Browne.

INCRASSATIVE
In*cras"sa*tive, a.

Defn: Having the quality of thickening; tending to thicken. Harvey.

INCRASSATIVE
In*cras"sa*tive, n.

Defn: A substance which has the power to thicken; formerly, a
medicine supposed to thicken the humors. Harvey.

INCREASABLE
In*creas"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being increased. Sherwood.
 -- In*creas"a*ble*ness, n.
An indefinite increasableness of some of our ideas. Bp. Law.

INCREASE
In*crease", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Increased; p. pr. & vb. n.
Increasing.] Etym: [OE. incresen, encresen, enrescen, OF. encreistre,
fr. L. increscere; pref. in- in + crescere to grow. See Crescent, and
cf. Decrease.]

1. To become greater or more in size, quantity, number, degree,
value, intensity, power, authority, reputation, wealth; to grow; to
augment; to advance; -- opposed to decrease.
The waters increased and bare up the ark. Gen. vii. 17.
He must increase, but I must decrease. John iii. 30.
The heavens forbid But that our loves and comforts should increase,
Even as our days do grow! Shak.

2. To multiply by the production of young; to be fertile, fruitful,
or prolific.
Fishes are more numerous of increasing than beasts or birds, as
appears by their numerous spawn. Sir M. Hale.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: To become more nearly full; to show more of the surface; to
wax; as, the moon increases. Increasing function (Math.), a function
whose value increases when that of the variable increases, and
decreases when the latter is diminished.

Syn.
 -- To enlarge; extend; multiply; expand; develop; heighten; amplify;
raise; enhance; spread; aggravate; magnify; augment; advance.
 -- To Increase, Enlarge, Extend. Enlarge implies to make larger or
broader in size. Extend marks the progress of enlargement so as to
have wider boundaries. Increase denotes enlargement by growth and
internal vitality, as in the case of plants. A kingdom is enlarged by
the addition of new territories; the mind is enlarged by knowledge. A
kingdom is extended when its boundaries are carried to a greater
distance from the center. A man's riches, honors, knowledge, etc.,
are increased by accessions which are made from time to time.

INCREASE
In*crease", v. t.

Defn: To augment or make greater in bulk, quantity, extent, value, or
amount, etc.; to add to; to extend; to lengthen; to enhance; to
aggravate; as, to increase one's possessions, influence.
I will increase the famine. Ezek. v. 16.
Make denials Increase your services. Shak.

INCREASE
In"crease, n. Etym: [OE. encres, encresse. See Increase, v. i.]

1. Addition or enlargement in size, extent, quantity, number,
intensity, value, substance, etc.; augmentation; growth.
As if increase of appetite had grown By what if fed on. Shak.
For things of tender kind for pleasure made Shoot up with swift
increase, and sudden are decay'd. Dryden.

2. That which is added to the original stock by augmentation or
growth; produce; profit; interest.
Take thou no usury of him, or increase. Lev. xxv. 36.
Let them not live to taste this land's increase. Shak.

3. Progeny; issue; offspring.
All the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their age. 1
Sam. ii. 33.

4. Generation. [Obs.] "Organs of increase." Shak.

5. (Astron.)

Defn: The period of increasing light, or luminous phase; the waxing;
-- said of the moon.
Seeds, hair, nails, hedges, and herbs will grow soonest if set or cut
in the increase of the moon. Bacon.
Increase twist, the twixt of a rifle groove in which the angle of
twist increases from the breech to the muzzle.

Syn.
 -- Enlargement; extension; growth; development; increment; addition;
accession; production.

INCREASEFUL
In*crease"ful, a.

Defn: Full of increase; abundant in produce. "Increaseful crops."
[R.] Shak.

INCREASEMENT
In*crease"ment, n.

Defn: Increase. [R.] Bacon.

INCREASER
In*creas"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that, increases.

INCREASINGLY
In*creas"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: More and more.

INCREATE
In`cre*ate", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Increated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Increating.] Etym: [Pref. in- in + create.]

Defn: To create within. [R.]

INCREATE; INCREATED
In"cre*ate, In"cre*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. increatus. See In- not, and
Create.]

Defn: Uncreated; self-existent. [R.]
Bright effincreate. Milton.

INCREDIBILITY
In*cred`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. incredibilitas: cf. F.
incrédibilité.]

1. The quality or state of being incredible; incredibleness. Dryden.

2. That which is incredible. Johnson.

INCREDIBLE
In*cred"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. incredibilis: cf. OF. incredible. See In-
not, and Credible.]

Defn: Not credible; surpassing belief; too extraordinary and
improbable to admit of belief; unlikely; marvelous; fabulous.
Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that God should
raise the dead Acts xxvi. 8.

INCREDIBLENESS
In*cred"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Incredibility.

INCREDIBLY
In*cred"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an incredible manner.

INCREDITED
In*cred"it*ed, a.

Defn: Uncredited. [Obs.]

INCREDULITY
In`cre*du"li*ty, n. Etym: [L. incredu: cf. F. incrédulité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being i
Of every species of incredulity, religious unbelief is the most
irrational. Buckminster.

INCREDULOUS
In*cred"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. incredulus. See In- not, and Credulous.]

1. Not credulous; indisposed to admit or accept that which is related
as true, skeptical; unbelieving. Bacon.
A fantastical incredulous fool. Bp. Wilkins.

2. Indicating, or caused by, disbelief or incredulity. "An
incredulous smile." Longfellow.

3. Incredible; not easy to be believed. [R.] Shak.

INCREDULOUSLY
In*cred"u*lous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an incredulous manner; with incredulity.

INCREDULOUSNESS
In*cred"u*lous*ness, n.

Defn: Incredulity.

INCREMABLE
In*crem"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + L. cremabilis combustible,
fr. cremare to burn.]

Defn: Incapable of being burnt; incombustibe. Sir T. Browne.

INCREMATE
In"cre*mate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + cremate.]

Defn: To consume or reduce to ashes by burning, as a dead body; to
cremate.

INCREMATION
In`cre*ma"tion, n.

Defn: Burning; esp., the act of burning a dead body; cremation.

INCREMENT
In"cre*ment, n. Etym: [L. incrementum: cf. F. incrément. See
Increase.]

1. The act or process of increasing; growth in bulk, guantity,
number, value, or amount; augmentation; enlargement.
The seminary that furnisheth matter for the formation and increment
of animal and vegetable bodies. Woodward.
A nation, to be great, ought to be compressed in its increment by
nations more civilized than itself. Coleridge.

2. Matter added; increase; produce; production; -- opposed to
decrement. "Large increment." J. Philips.

3. (Math.)

Defn: The increase of a variable quantity or fraction from its
present value to its next ascending value; the finite quantity,
generally variable, by which a variable quantity is increased.

4. (Rhet.)

Defn: An amplification without strict climax, as in the following
passage:
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are
honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure,
whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, .
. . think on these things. Phil. iv. 8.
Infinitesimal increment (Math.), an infinitesimally small variation
considered in Differential Calculus. See Calculus.
 -- Method of increments (Math.), a calculus founded on the
properties of the successive values of variable quantities and their
differences or increments. It differs from the method of fluxions in
treating these differences as finite, instead of infinitely small,
and is equivalent to the calculus of finite differences.

INCREMENTAL
In`cre*men"tal, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resulting from, the process of growth; as,
the incremental lines in the dentine of teeth.

INCREPATE
In"cre*pate, v. t. Etym: [L. increpatus, p. p. of increpare to
upbraid; pref. in- in, against + crepare to talk noisily.]

Defn: To chide; to rebuke; to reprove. [Obs.]

INCREPATION
In`cre*pa"tion, n. Etym: [L. increpatio.]

Defn: A chiding; rebuke; reproof. [Obs.] Hammond.

INCRESCENT
In*cres"cent, a. Etym: [L. increscens, -entis, p. pr. of increscere.
See Increase.]

1. Increasing; growing; augmenting; swelling; enlarging.
Between the incresent and decrescent moon. Tennyson.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Increasing; on the increase; -- said of the moon represented as
the new moon, with the points turned toward the dexter side.

INCREST
In*crest", v. t.

Defn: To adorn with a crest. [R.] Drummond.

INCRIMINATE
In*crim"i*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incriminated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incriminating.] Etym: [LL. incriminatus, p. p. of incriminare; in- in
+ criminare, criminari, to accuse one of a crime. See Criminate.]

Defn: To accuse; to charge with a crime or fault; to criminate.

INCRIMINATION
In*crim`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act of incriminating; crimination.

INCRIMINATORY
In*crim"i*na*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to crimination; tending to incriminate;
criminatory.

INCROYABLE
In`croy`a"ble, n. [F., lit., incredible.]

Defn: A French fop or dandy of the time of the Directory; hence, any
fop.

 The name is said to have been given in allusion not only to the
extravagant dress, but also to the frequent use of the phrase "C'est
vraiment incroyable" (That is really incredible.).

INCRUENTAL
In`cru*en"tal, a. Etym: [L. incruentus. See In- not, and Cruentous.]

Defn: Unbloody; not attended with blood; as, an incruental sacrifice.
[Obs.] Brevint.

INCRUST
In*crust", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incrusted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incrusting.] Etym: [L. incrustare; pref. in- in + crustare to cover
with a crust: cf. F. incruster. See Crust.] [Written also encrust.]

1. To cover or line with a crust, or hard coat; to form a crust on
the surface of; as, iron incrusted with rust; a vessel incrusted with
salt; a sweetmeat incrusted with sugar.
And by the frost refin'd the whiter snow, Incrusted hard. Thomson.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: To inlay into, as a piece of carving or other ornamental
object.

INCRUSTATE
In*crus"tate, a. Etym: [L. incrustatus, p. p. See Incrust.]

Defn: Incrusted. Bacon.

INCRUSTATE
In*crus"tate, v. t.

Defn: To incrust. [R.] Cheyne.

INCRUSTATION
In`crus*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. incrustatio: cf. F. incrustation. See
Incrust.]

1. The act of incrusting, or the state of being incrusted.

2. A crust or hard coating of anything upon or within a body, as a
deposit of lime, sediment, etc., from water on the inner surface of a
steam boiler.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A covering or inlaying of marble, mosaic, etc., attached to the
masonry by cramp irons or cement.

4. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Anything inlaid or imbedded.

INCRUSTMENT
In*crust"ment, n.

Defn: Incrustation. [R.]

INCRYSTALLIZABLE
In*crys"tal*li`za*ble, a.

Defn: Not crystallizable; incapable of being formed into crystals.

INCUBATE
In"cu*bate, v. i. & t. [imp. & p. p. Incubated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incubating.] Etym: [L. incubatus, p. p. incubare to lie on; pref. in-
in, on + cubare to lie down. Cf. Cubit, Incumbent.]

Defn: To sit, as on eggs for hatching; to brood; to brood upon, or
keep warm, as eggs, for the purpose of hatching.

INCUBATION
In`cu*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. incubatio: cf. F. incubation.]

1. A sitting on eggs for the purpose of hatching young; a brooding
on, or keeping warm, (eggs) to develop the life within, by any
process. Ray.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The development of a disease from its causes, or its period of
incubation. (See below.)

3. A sleeping in a consecrated place for the purpose of dreaming
oracular dreams. Tylor. Period of incubation, or Stage of incubation
(Med.), the period which elapses between exposure to the causes of a
disease and the attack resulting from it; the time of development of
the supposed germs or spores.

INCUBATIVE
In"cu*ba*tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to incubation, or to the period of incubation.

INCUBATOR
In"cu*ba`tor, n.

Defn: That which incubates, especially, an apparatus by means of
which eggs are hatched by artificial heat.

INCUBATORY
In*cu"ba*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving for incubation.

INCUBE
In*cube", v. t.

Defn: To fix firmly, as in cube; to secure or place firmly. [Obs.]
Milton.

INCUBITURE
In*cu"bi*ture, n. Etym: [Cf. L. incubitus.]

Defn: Incubation. [Obs.] J. Ellis.

INCUBOUS
In"cu*bous, a. Etym: [From L. incubare to lie on.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the leaves so placed that the upper part of each one
covers the base of the leaf next above it, as in hepatic mosses of
the genus Frullania. See Succubous.

INCUBUS
In"cu*bus, n.; pl. E. Incubuses, L. Incubi. Etym: [L., the nightmare.
Cf. Incubate.]

1. A demon; a fiend; a lascivious spirit, supposed to have sexual
intercourse with women by night. Tylor.
The devils who appeared in the female form were generally called
succubi; those who appeared like men incubi, though this distinction
was not always preserved. Lecky.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The nightmare. See Nightmare.
Such as are troubled with incubus, or witch-ridden, as we call it.
Burton.

3. Any oppressive encumbrance or burden; anything that prevents the
free use of the faculties.
Debt and usury is the incubus which weighs most heavily on the
agricultural resources of Turkey. J. L. Farley.

INCULCATE
In*cul"cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inculcated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inculcating.] Etym: [L. inculcatus, p. p. of inculcare to tread on;
pref. in- in, on + calcare to tread, fr. calx the heel; perh. akin to
E. heel. Cf. 2d Calk, Heel.]

Defn: To teach and impress by frequent repetitions or admonitions; to
urge on the mind; as, Christ inculcates on his followers humility.
The most obvious and necessary duties of life they have not yet had
authority enough to enforce and inculcate upon men's minds. S.
Clarke.

Syn.
 -- To instill; infuse; implant; engraft; impress.

INCULCATION
In`cul*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. inculcatio: cf. F. inculcation.]

Defn: A teaching and impressing by frequent repetitions. Bp. Hall.

INCULCATOR
In*cul"ca*tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who inculcates. Boyle.

INCULK
In*culk". v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. inculquer. See Inculcate.]

Defn: To inculcate. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

INCULP
In*culp", v. t. Etym: [Cf. inculper. See Inculpate.]

Defn: To inculpate. [Obs.] Shelton.

INCULPABLE
In*cul"pa*ble, a. Etym: [L. inculpabilis: cf. F. incupable.]

Defn: Faultless; blameless; innocent. South.
An innocent and incupable piece of ignorance. Killingbeck.

INCULPABLENESS
In*cul"pa*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Blamelessness; faultlessness.

INCULPABLY
In*cul"pa*bly, adv.

Defn: Blamelessly. South.

INCULPATE
In*cul"pate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inculpated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inculpating.] Etym: [LL. inculpatus, p. p. of inculpare to blame;
pref. in- in + culpa fault. See Culpable.]

Note: [A word of recent introduction.]

Defn: To blame; to impute guilt to; to accuse; to involve or
implicate in guilt.
That risk could only exculpate her and not inculpate them -- the
probabilities protected them so perfectly. H. James.

INCULPATION
In`cul*pa"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inculpation.]

Defn: Blame; censure; crimination. Jefferson.

INCULPATORY
In*cul"pa*to*ry, a.

Defn: Imputing blame; criminatory; compromising; implicating.

INCULT
In*cult", a. Etym: [L. incultus; pref. in- not + cultus, p. p. of
colere to cultivate: cf. F. inculte.]

Defn: Untilled; uncultivated; crude; rude; uncivilized.
Germany then, says Tacitus, was incult and horrid, now full of
magnificent cities. Burton.
His style is diffuse and incult. M. W. Shelley.

INCULTIVATED
In*cul"ti*va`ted, a.

Defn: Uncultivated. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

INCULTIVATION
In*cul`ti*va"tion, n.

Defn: Want of cultivation. [Obs.] Berington.

INCULTURE
In*cul"ture, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + culture: cf. F. inculture.]

Defn: Want or neglect of cultivation or culture. [Obs.] Feltham.

INCUMBENCY
In*cum"ben*cy, n.; pl. Incumbencies. Etym: [From Incumbent.]

1. The state of being incumbent; a lying or resting on something.

2. That which is physically incumbent; that which lies as a burden; a
weight. Evelyn.

3. That which is morally incumbent, or is imposed, as a rule, a duty,
obligation, or responsibility. "The incumbencies of a family." Donne.

4. The state of holding a benefice; the full possession and exercise
of any office.
These fines are only to be paid to the bishop during his incumbency.
Swift.

INCUMBENT
In*cum"bent, a. Etym: [L. incumbens, -entis, p. pr. of incumbere to
lie down upon, press upon; pref. in- in, on + cumbere (in comp.);
akin to cubare to lie down. See Incubate.]

1. Lying; resting; reclining; recumbent; superimposed;
superincumbent.
Two incumbent figures, gracefully leaning upon it. Sir H. Wotton.
To move the incumbent load they try. Addison.

2. Lying, resting, or imposed, as a duty or obligation; obligatory;
always with on or upon.
All men, truly zealous, will perform those good works that are
incumbent on all Christians. Sprat.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Leaning or resting; -- said of anthers when lying on the inner
side of the filament, or of cotyledons when the radicle lies against
the back of one of them. Gray.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Bent downwards so that the ends touch, or rest on, something
else; as, the incumbent toe of a bird.

INCUMBENT
In*cum"bent, n.

Defn: A person who is in present possession of a benefice or of any
office.
The incumbent lieth at the mercy of his patron. Swift.

INCUMBENTLY
In*cum"bent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an incumbent manner; so as to be incumbent.

INCUMBER
In*cum"ber, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incumbered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incumbering.]

Defn: See Encumber.

INCUMBITION
In`cum*bi"tion, n.

Defn: Incubation. [R.] Sterne.

INCUMBRANCE
In*cum"brance, n. Etym: [See Encumbrance.] [Written also
encumbrance.]

1. A burdensome and troublesome load; anything that impedes motion or
action, or renders it difficult or laborious; clog; impediment;
hindrance; check. Cowper.

2. (Law)

Defn: A burden or charge upon property; a claim or lien upon an
estate, which may diminish its value.

INCUMBRANCER
In*cum"bran*cer, n. (Law)

Defn: One who holds Kent.

INCUMBROUS
In*cum"brous, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. encombros.]

Defn: Cumbersome; troublesome. [Written also encombrous.] [Obs.]
Chaucer.

INCUNABULUM
In`cu*nab"u*lum, n.; pl. Incunabula. Etym: [L. incunabula cradle,
birthplace, origin. See 1st In-, and Cunabula.]

Defn: A work of art or of human industry, of an early epoch;
especially, a book printed before A. D. 1500.

INCUR
In*cur", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incurred; p. pr. & vb. n. Incurring.]
Etym: [L. incurrere to run into or toward; pref. in- in + currere to
run. See Current.]

1. To meet or fall in with, as something inconvenient, harmful, or
onerous; to put one's self in the way of; to expose one's self to; to
become liable or subject to; to bring down upon one's self; to
encounter; to contract; as, to incur debt, danger, displeasure
I know not what I shall incur to passShak.

2. To render liable or subject to; to occasion. [Obs.]
Lest you incur me much more damage in my fame than you have done me
pleasure in preserving my life. Chapman.

INCUR
In*cur", v. i.

Defn: To pass; to enter. [Obs.]
Light is discerned by itself because by itself it incurs into the
eye. South.

INCURABILITY
In*cur`a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incurabilité incurability, LL.
incurabilitas negligence.]

Defn: The state of being uncurable; irremediableness. Harvey.

INCURABLE
In*cur"a*ble, a. Etym: [F. incurable, L. incurabilis. See In- not,
and Curable.]

1. Not capable of being cured; beyond the power of skill or medicine
to remedy; as, an incurable disease.
A scirrh is not absolutely incurable. Arbuthnot.

2. Not admitting or capable of remedy or correction; irremediable;
remediless; as, incurable evils.
Rancorous and incurable hostility. Burke.
They were laboring under a profound, and, as it might have seemed, an
almost incurable ignorance. Sir J. Stephen.

Syn.
 -- Irremediable; remediless; irrecoverable; irretrievable;
irreparable; hopeless.

INCURABLE
In*cur"a*ble, n.

Defn: A person diseased beyond cure.

INCURABLENESS
In*cur"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being incurable; incurability. Boyle.

INCURABLY
In*cur"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner that renders cure impracticable or impossible;
irremediably. "Incurably diseased." Bp. Hall. "Incurably wicked."
Blair.

INCURIOSITY
In*cu`ri*os"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. incuriositas: cf. F. incurosité.]

Defn: Want of curiosity or interest; inattentiveness; indifference.
Sir H. Wotton.

INCURIOUS
In*cu"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. incuriosus: cf. F. incurieux. See In- not,
and Curious.]

Defn: Not curious or inquisitive; without care for or interest in;
inattentive; careless; negligent; heedless.
Carelessnesses and incurious deportments toward their children. Jer.
Taylor.

INCURIOUSLY
In*cu"ri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an curious manner.

INCURIOUSNESS
In*cu"ri*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Unconcernedness; incuriosity.
Sordid incuriousness and slovenly neglect. Bp. Hall.

INCURRENCE
In*cur"rence, n. Etym: [See Incur.]

Defn: The act of incurring, bringing on, or subjecting one's self to
(something troublesome or burdensome); as, the incurrence of guilt,
debt, responsibility, etc.

INCURRENT
In*cur"rent, a. Etym: [L. incurrens, p. pr. incurere, incursum, to
run in; in- + currere to run.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Characterized by a current which flows inward; as, the
incurrent orifice of lamellibranch Mollusca.

INCURSION
In*cur"sion, n. Etym: [L. incursio: cf. F. incursion. See Incur.]

1. A running into; hence, an entering into a territory with hostile
intention; a temporary invasion; a predatory or harassing inroad; a
raid.
The Scythian, whose incursions wild Have wasted Sogdiana. Milton.
The incursions of the Goths disordered the affairs of the Roman
Empire. Arbuthnot.

2. Attack; occurrence. [Obs.]
Sins of daily incursion. South.

Syn.
 -- Invasion; inroad; raid; foray; sally; attack; onset; irruption.
See Invasion.

INCURSIVE
In*cur"sive, a.

Defn: Making an incursion; invasive; aggressive; hostile.

INCURTAIN
In*cur"tain, v. t.

Defn: To curtain. [Obs.]

INCURVATE
In*cur"vate, a. Etym: [L. incurvatus, p. p. of incurvare to crook;
pref. in- in + curvus bent. See Curve, and cf. Incurve.]

Defn: Curved; bent; crooked. Derham.

INCURVATE
In*cur"vate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incurvated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Incurvating.]

Defn: To turn from a straight line or course; to bend; to crook.
Cheyne.

INCURVATION
In`cur*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. incurvatio: cf. F. incurvation.]

1. The act of bending, or curving.

2. The state of being bent or curved; curvature.
An incurvation of the rays. Derham.

3. The act of bowing, or bending the body, in respect or reverence.
"The incurvations of the knee." Bp. Hall.

INCURVE
In*curve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Incurved; p. pr. & vb. n. Incurving.]
Etym: [See Incurvate.]

Defn: To bend; to curve; to make crooked.

INCURVED
In*curved", a. Etym: [Pref. in- in + curved.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bending gradually toward the axis or center, as branches or
petals.

INCURVITY
In*cur"vi*ty, n. Etym: [From L. incurvus bent. See Incurvate.]

Defn: A state of being bent or curved; incurvation; a bending
inwards. Sir T. Browne.

INCUS
In"cus, n. Etym: [L., anvil.]

1. An anvil.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the small bones in the tympanum of the ear; the anvil
bone. See Ear.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The central portion of the armature of the pharynx in the
Rotifera.

INCUSE
In*cuse", a. Etym: [See Incuse, v. t.] (Numismatics)

Defn: Cut or stamped in, or hollowed out by engraving. "Irregular
incuse square." Dr. W. Smith.

INCUSE; INCUSS
In*cuse", In*cuss", v. t. Etym: [L. incussus, p. p. of incutere to
strike. See 1st In-, and Concuss.]

Defn: To form, or mold, by striking or stamping, as a coin or medal.

INCUTE
In*cute", v. t. Etym: [See Incuse.]

Defn: To strike or stamp in. [Obs.] Becon.

INCYST
In*cyst", v. t.

Defn: See Encyst.

INCYSTED
In*cyst"ed, a.

Defn: See Encysted.

IND
Ind, n.

Defn: India. [Poetical] Shak. Milton.

INDAGATE
In"da*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. indagatus, p. p. of indagare to seek.]

Defn: To seek or search out. [Obs.]

INDAGATION
In`da*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. indagatio: cf. F. indagation.]

Defn: Search; inquiry; investigation. [Obs.]

INDAGATIVE
In"da*ga*tive, a.

Defn: Searching; exploring; investigating. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

INDAGATOR
In"da*ga`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A searcher; an explorer; an investigator. [Obs.]
Searched into by such skillful indagators of nature. Boyle.

INDAMAGE
In*dam"age (; 48), v. t.

Defn: See Endamage. [R.]

INDAMAGED
In*dam"aged, a.

Defn: Not damaged. [Obs.] Milton.

INDART
In*dart", v. t.

Defn: To pierce, as with a dart.

INDAZOL
In"da*zol, n. Etym: [Indol + azote.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous compound, C7H6N2, analogous to indol, and
produced from a diazo derivative or cinnamic acid.

INDE
Inde, a.

Defn: Azure-colored; of a bright blue color. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

INDEAR
In*dear", v. t.

Defn: See Endear.

INDEBT
In*debt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indebted; p. pr. & vb. n. Indebting.]
Etym: [OE. endetten, F. endetter; pref. en- (L. in) + F. dette debt.
See Debt.]

Defn: To bring into debt; to place under obligation; -- chiefly used
in the participle indebted.
Thy fortune hath indebted thee to none. Daniel.

INDEBTED
In*debt"ed, a.

1. Brought into debt; being under obligation; held to payment or
requital; beholden.
By owing, owes not, but still pays, at once Indebted and discharged.
Milton.

2. Placed under obligation for something received, for which
restitution or gratitude is due; as, we are indebted to our parents
for their care of us in infancy; indebted to friends for help and
encouragement. Cowper.

INDEBTEDNESS
In*debt"ed*ness, n.

1. The state of being indebted.

2. The sum owed; debts, collectively.

INDEBTMENT
In*debt"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. endettement.]

Defn: Indebtedness. [R.] Bp. Hall.

INDECENCE
In*de"cence, n.

Defn: See Indecency. [Obs.] "An indecence of barbarity." Bp. Burnet.

INDECENCY
In*de"cen*cy, n.; pl. Indecencies. Etym: [L. indecentia unseemliness:
cf. F. indécence.]

1. The quality or state of being indecent; want of decency, modesty,
or good manners; obscenity.

2. That which is indecent; an indecent word or act; an offense
against delicacy.
They who, by speech or writing, present to the ear or the eye of
modesty any of the indecencies I allude to, are pests of society.
Beattie.

Syn.
 -- Indelicacy; indecorum; immodesty; impurity; obscenity. See
Indecorum.

INDECENT
In*de"cent, a. Etym: [L. indecens unseemly, unbecoming: cf. F.
indécent. See In- not, and Decent.]

Defn: Not decent; unfit to be seen or heard; offensive to modesty and
delicacy; as, indecent language. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Unbecoming; indecorous; indelicate; unseemly; immodest; gross;
shameful; impure; improper; obscene; filthy.

INDECENTLY
In*de"cent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an indecent manner.

INDECIDUATE
In`de*cid"u*ate, a.

1. Indeciduous.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Having no decidua; nondeciduate.

INDECIDUOUS
In`de*cid"u*ous, a.

Defn: Not deciduous or falling, as the leaves of trees in autumn;
lasting; evergreen; persistent; permanent; perennial.
The indeciduous and unshaven locks of Apollo. Sir T. Browne.

INDECIMABLE
In*dec"i*ma*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + LL. decimare to tithe: cf.
F. indécimable. See Decimate.]

Defn: Not decimable, or liable to be decimated; not liable to the
payment of tithes. Cowell.

INDECIPHERABLE
In`de*ci"pher*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not decipherable; incapable of being deciphered, explained, or
solved.
 -- In`de*ci"pher*a*bly, adv.

INDECISION
In`de*ci"sion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + decision: cf. F.
indécision.]

Defn: Want of decision; want of settled purpose, or of firmness;
indetermination; wavering of mind; irresolution; vacillation;
hesitation.
The term indecision . . . implies an idea very nicely different from
irresolution; yet it has a tendency to produce it. Shenstone.
Indecision . . . is the natural accomplice of violence. Burke.

INDECISIVE
In`de*ci"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. indécisif.]

1. Not decisive; not bringing to a final or ultimate issue; as, an
indecisive battle, argument, answer.
The campaign had everywhere been indecisive. Macaulay.

2. Undetermined; prone to indecision; irresolute; unsettled;
wavering; vacillating; hesitating; as, an indecisive state of mind;
an indecisive character.

INDECISIVELY
In`de*ci"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: Without decision.

INDECISIVENESS
In`de*ci"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being indecisive; unsettled state.

INDECLINABLE
In`de*clin"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. indeclinabilis: cf. F. indéclinable.
See In- not, and Decline.] (Gram.)

Defn: Not declinable; not varied by inflective terminations; as,
nihil (nothing), in Latin, is an indeclinable noun.
 -- n.

Defn: An indeclinable word.

INDECLINABLY
In`de*clin"a*bly, adv.

1. Without variation.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Without variation of termination.

INDECOMPOSABLE
In*de`com*pos"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + decomposable: cf. F.
indécomposable.]

Defn: Not decomposable; incapable or difficult of decomposition; not
resolvable into its constituents or elements.

INDECOMPOSABLENESS
In*de`com*pos"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Incapableness of decomposition; stability; permanence;
durability.

INDECOROUS
In`de*co"rous, a. Etym: [L. indecorous. See In- not, and Decorous.]

Defn: Not decorous; violating good manners; contrary to good breeding
or etiquette; unbecoming; improper; out of place; as, indecorous
conduct.
It was useless and indecorous to attempt anything more by mere
struggle. Burke.

Syn.
 -- Unbecoming; unseemly; unbefitting; rude; coarse; impolite;
uncivil; ill-bred.

INDECOROUSLY
In`de*co"rous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an indecorous manner.

INDECOROUSNESS
In`de*co"rous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being indecorous; want of decorum.

INDECORUM
In`de*co"rum, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + decorum: cf. L. indecorous
unbecoming.]

1. Want of decorum; impropriety of behavior; that in behavior or
manners which violates the established rules of civility, custom, or
etiquette; indecorousness.

2. An indecorous or becoming action. Young.

Syn.
 -- Indecorum is sometimes synonymous with indecency; but indecency,
more frequently than indecorum, is applied to words or actions which
refer to what nature and propriety require to be concealed or
suppressed. Indecency is the stronger word; indecorum refers to any
transgression of etiquette or civility, especially in public.

INDEED
In*deed", adv. Etym: [Prep. in + deed.]

Defn: In reality; in truth; in fact; verily; truly; -- used in a
variety of sense. Esp.: (a) Denoting emphasis; as, indeed it is so.
(b) Denoting concession or admission; as, indeed, you are right. (c)
Denoting surprise; as, indeed, is it you Its meaning is not intrinsic
or fixed, but depends largely on the form of expression which it
accompanies.

The carnal mind is enmity against God; for it is not subject to the
law of God, neither indeed can be. Rom. viii. 7.
I were a beast indeed to do you wrong. Dryden.
There is, indeed, no great pleasure in visiting these magazines of
war. Addison.

INDEFATIGABILITY
In`de*fat`i*ga*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being indefatigable.

INDEFATIGABLE
In`de*fat"i*ga*ble, a. Etym: [L. indefatigabilis: cf. OF.
indefatigable. See In- not, and Defatigable, and cf. Infatigable.]

Defn: Incapable of being fatigued; not readily exhausted; unremitting
in labor or effort; untiring; unwearying; not yielding to fatigue;
as, indefatigable exertions, perseverance, application. "A constant,
indefatigable attendance." South.
Upborne with indefatigable wings. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Unwearied; untiring; persevering; persistent.

INDEFATIGABLENESS
In`de*fat"i*ga*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Indefatigable quality; unweariedness; persistency. Parnell.

INDEFATIGABLY
In`de*fat"i*ga*bly, adv.

Defn: Without weariness; without yielding to fatigue; persistently.
Dryden.

INDEFATIGATION
In`de*fat`i*ga"tion, n.

Defn: Indefatigableness; unweariedness. [Obs.] J. Gregory.

INDEFEASIBILITY
In`de*fea`si*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being undefeasible.

INDEFEASIBLE
In`de*fea`si*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + defeasible: cf. OF.
indefaisable.]

Defn: Not to be defeated; not defeasible; incapable of being annulled
or made void; as, an indefeasible or title.
That the king had a divine and an indefeasible right to the regal
power. Macaulay.

INDEFECTIBILITY
In`de*fect`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indéfectibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being indefectible. Barrow.

INDEFECTIBLE
In`de*fect"i*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + defectible: cf. F.
indéfectible.]

Defn: Not defectible; unfailing; not liable to defect, failure, or
decay.
An indefectible treasure in the heavens. Barrow.
A state of indefectible virtue and happiness. S. Clarke.

INDEFECTIVE
In`de*fect"ive, a.

Defn: Not defective; perfect; complete. "Absolute, indefective
obedience." South.

INDEFEISIBLE
In`de*fei"si*ble, a.

Defn: Indefeasible. [Obs.]

INDEFENSIBILITY
In`de*fen`si*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of not being defensible. Walsh.

INDEFENSIBLE
In`de*fen"si*ble, Etym: [Pref. in- not + defensible: cf. OF.
indefensible, indefensable.]

Defn: Not defensible; not capable of being defended, maintained,
vindicated, or justified; unjustifiable; untenable; as, an
indefensible fortress, position, cause, etc.
Men find that something can be said in favor of what, on the very
proposal, they thought utterly indefensible. Burke.

INDEFENSIBLY
In`de*fen"si*bly, adv.

Defn: In an indefensible manner.

INDEFENSIVE
In`de*fen"sive, a.

Defn: Defenseless. [Obs.]
The sword awes the indefensive villager. Sir T. Herbert.

INDEFICIENCY
In`de*fi"cien*cy, n.

Defn: The state or quality of not being deficient. [Obs.] Strype.

INDEFICIENT
In`de*fi"cient, a. Etym: [L. indeficiens. See In- not, and
Deficient.]

Defn: Not deficient; full. [Obs.]
Brighter than the sun, and indeficient as the light of heaven. Jer.
Taylor.

INDEFINABLE
In`de*fin"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being defined or described; inexplicable. Bp.
Reynolds.

INDEFINABLY
In`de*fin"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an indefinable manner.

INDEFINITE
In*def"i*nite, a. Etym: [L. indefinitus. See In- not, and Definite.]

1. Not definite; not limited, defined, or specified; not explicit;
not determined or fixed upon; not precise; uncertain; vague;
confused; obscure; as, an indefinite time, plan, etc.
It were to be wished that . . . men would leave off that indefinite
way of vouching, "the chymists say this," or "the chymists affirm
that." Boyle.
The time of this last is left indefinite. Dryden.

2. Having no determined or certain limits; large and unmeasured,
though not infinite; unlimited; as indefinite space; the indefinite
extension of a straight line.
Though it is not infinite, it may be indefinite; though it is not
boundless in itself, it may be so to human comprehension. Spectator.

3. Boundless; infinite. [R.]
Indefinite and omnipresent God, Inhabiting eternity. W. Thompson
(1745).

4. (Bot.)

Defn: Too numerous or variable to make a particular enumeration
important; -- said of the parts of a flower, and the like. Also,
indeterminate. Indefinite article (Gram.), the word a or an, used
with nouns to denote any one of a common or general class.
 -- Indefinite inflorescence. (Bot.) See Indeterminate inflorescence,
under Indeterminate.
 -- Indefinite proposition (Logic), a statement whose subject is a
common term, with nothing to indicate distribution or
nondistribution; as, Man is mortal.
 -- Indefinite term (Logic), a negative term; as, the not-good.

Syn.
 -- Inexplicit; vague; uncertain; unsettled; indeterminate; loose;
equivocal; inexact; approximate.

INDEFINITELY
In*def"i*nite*ly, adv.

Defn: In an indefinite manner or degree; without any settled
limitation; vaguely; not with certainty or exactness; as, to use a
word indefinitely.
If the world be indefinitely extended, that is, so far as no human
intellect can fancy any bound of it. Ray.

INDEFINITENESS
In*def"i*nite*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being indefinite.

INDEFINITUDE
In`de*fin"i*tude, n.

Defn: Indefiniteness; vagueness; also, number or quantity not limited
by our understanding, though yet finite. [Obs.] Sir M . Hale.

INDEHISCENCE
In`de*his"cence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indéhiscence.] (Bot.)

Defn: The property or state of being indehiscent.

INDEHISCENT
In`de*his"cent, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + dehiscent: cf. F.
indéhiscent.] (Bot.)

Defn: Remaining closed at maturity, or not opening along regular
lines, as the acorn, or a cocoanut.

INDELECTABLE
In`de*lec"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Not delectable; unpleasant; disagreeable. [R.] Richardson.

INDELIBERATE
In`de*lib"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. indeliberatus. See In- not, and
Deliberate.]

Defn: Done without deliberation; unpremeditated. [Obs.] --
In`de*lib"er*ate*ly, adv. [Obs.]

INDELIBERATED
In`de*lib"er*a`ted, a.

Defn: Indeliberate. [Obs.]

INDELIBILITY
In*del`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indélébilité.]

Defn: The quality of being indelible. Bp. Horsley.

INDELIBLE
In*del"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. indelebilis; pref.in- not + delebilis
capable of being destroyed: cf. F. indélébile. See In- not, and
Deleble.] [Formerly written also indeleble, which accords with the
etymology of the word.]

1. That can not be removed, washed away, blotted out, or effaced;
incapable of being canceled, lost, or forgotten; as, indelible
characters; an indelible stain; an indelible impression on the
memory.

2. That can not be annulled; indestructible. [R.]
They are endued with indelible power from above. Sprat.
Indelible colors, fast colors which do not fade or tarnish by
exposure.
 -- Indelible ink, an ink obliterated by washing; esp., a solution of
silver nitrate.

Syn.
 -- Fixed; fast; permanent; ineffaceable.
 -- In*del"i*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*del"i*bly, adv.
Indelibly stamped and impressed. J. Ellis.

INDELICACY
In*del"i*ca*cy, n.; pl. Indelicacies. Etym: [From Indelicate.]

Defn: The quality of being indelicate; want of delicacy, or of a nice
sense of, or regard for, purity, propriety, or refinement in manners,
language, etc.; rudeness; coarseness; also, that which is offensive
to refined taste or purity of mind.
The indelicacy of English comedy. Blair.
Your papers would be chargeable with worse than indelicacy; they
would be immoral. Addison.

INDELICATE
In*del"i*cate, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + delicate: cf. F. indélicat.]

Defn: Not delicate; wanting delicacy; offensive to good manners, or
to purity of mind; coarse; rude; as, an indelicate word or
suggestion; indelicate behavior. Macaulay.
 -- In*del"i*cate*ly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Indecorous; unbecoming; unseemly; rude; coarse; broad; impolite;
gross; indecent; offensive; improper; unchaste; impure; unrefined.

INDEMNIFICATION
In*dem`ni*fi*ca"tion, n.

1. The act or process of indemnifying, preserving, or securing
against loss, damage, or penalty; reimbursement of loss, damage, or
penalty; the state of being indemnified.
Indemnification is capable of some estimate; dignity has no standard.
Burke.

2. That which indemnifies.
No reward with the name of an indemnification. De Quincey.

INDEMNIFY
In*dem"ni*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indemnified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Indemnifying.] Etym: [L. indemnis unhurt (in- not + damnum hurt,
damage) + -fy. Cf. Damn, Damnify.]

1. To save harmless; to secure against loss or damage; to insure.
The states must at last engage to the merchants here that they will
indemnify them from all that shall fall out. Sir W. Temple.

2. To make restitution or compensation for, as for that which is
lost; to make whole; to reimburse; to compensate. Beattie.

INDEMNITY
In*dem"ni*ty, n.; pl. Indemnities. Etym: [L. indemnitas, fr. indemnis
uninjured: cf. F. indemnité. See Indemnify.]

1. Security; insurance; exemption from loss or damage, past or to
come; immunity from penalty, or the punishment of past offenses;
amnesty.
Having first obtained a promise of indemnity for the riot they had
committed. Sir W. Scott.

2. Indemnification, compensation, or remuneration for loss, damage,
or injury sustained.
They were told to expect, upon the fall of Walpole, a large and
lucrative indemnity for their pretended wrongs. Ld. Mahon.

Note: Insurance is a contract of indemnity. Arnould. The owner of
private property taken for public use is entitled to compensation or
indemnity. Kent. Act of indemnity (Law), an act or law passed in
order to relieve persons, especially in an official station, from
some penalty to which they are liable in consequence of acting
illegally, or, in case of ministers, in consequence of exceeding the
limits of their strict constitutional powers. These acts also
sometimes provide compensation for losses or damage, either incurred
in the service of the government, or resulting from some public
measure.

INDEMONSTRABILITY
In`de*mon`stra*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being indemonstrable.

INDEMONSTRABLE
In`de*mon"stra*ble, a. Etym: [L. indemonstrabilis. See In- not, and
Demonstrable.]

Defn: Incapable of being demonstrated.
 -- In`de*mon"stra*ble*ness, n.

INDENIZATION
In*den`i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of naturalizing; endenization. [R.] Evelyn.

INDENIZE
In*den"ize, v. t.

Defn: To naturalize. [R.]

INDENIZEN
In*den"i*zen, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indenizened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Indenizening.]

Defn: To invest with the privileges of a denizen; to naturalize. [R.]
Words indenizened, and commonly used as English. B. Jonson.

INDENT
In*dent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indented; p. pr. & vb. n. Indenting.]
Etym: [OE. endenten to notch, fit in, OF. endenter, LL. indentare,
fr. L. in + dens, dentis, tooth. See Tooth, and cf. Indenture.]

1. To notch; to jag; to cut into points like a row of teeth; as, to
indent the edge of paper.

2. To dent; to stamp or to press in; to impress; as, indent a smooth
surface with a hammer; to indent wax with a stamp.

3. Etym: [Cf. Indenture.]

Defn: To bind out by indenture or contract; to indenture; to
apprentice; as, to indent a young man to a shoemaker; to indent a
servant.

4. (Print.)

Defn: To begin (a line or lines) at a greater or less distance from
the margin; as, to indent the first line of a paragraph one em; to
indent the second paragraph two ems more than the first. See
Indentation, and Indention.

5. (Mil.)

Defn: To make an order upon; to draw upon, as for military stores.
[India] Wilhelm.

INDENT
In*dent", v. i.

1. To be cut, notched, or dented.

2. To crook or turn; to wind in and out; to zigzag.

3. To contract; to bargain or covenant. Shak.
To indent and drive bargains with the Almighty. South.

INDENT
In*dent", n.

1. A cut or notch in the man gin of anything, or a recess like a
notch. Shak.

2. A stamp; an impression. [Obs.]

3. A certificate, or intended certificate, issued by the government
of the United States at the close of the Revolution, for the
principal or interest of the public debt. D. Ramsay. A. Hamilton.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: A requisition or order for supplies, sent to the commissariat
of an army. [India] Wilhelm.

INDENTATION
In`den*ta"tion, n.

1. The act of indenting or state of being indented.

2. A notch or recess, in the margin or border of anything; as, the
indentations of a leaf, of the coast, etc.

3. A recess or sharp depression in any surface.

4. (Print.)
(a) The act of beginning a line or series of lines at a little
distance within the flush line of the column or page, as in the
common way of beginning the first line of a paragraph.
(b) The measure of the distance; as, an indentation of one em, or of
two ems. Hanging, or Reverse, indentation, indentation of all the
lines of a paragraph except the first, which is a full line.

INDENTED
In*dent"ed, a.

1. Cut in the edge into points or inequalities, like teeth; jagged;
notched; stamped in; dented on the surface.

2. Having an uneven, irregular border; sinuous; undulating. Milton.
Shak.

3. (Her.)

Defn: Notched like the part of a saw consisting of the teeth;
serrated; as, an indented border or ordinary.

4. Bound out by an indenture; apprenticed; indentured; as, an
indented servant.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Notched along the margin with a different color, as the
feathers of some birds. Indented line (Fort.), a line with alternate
long and short faces, with salient and receding angles, each face
giving a flanking fire along the front of the next.

INDENTEDLY
In*dent"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: With indentations.

INDENTING
In*dent"ing, n.

Defn: Indentation; an impression like that made by a tooth.

INDENTION
In*den"tion, n. (Print.)

Defn: Same as Indentation, 4.

INDENTMENT
In*dent"ment, n.

Defn: Indenture. [Obs.]

INDENTURE
In*den"ture, n. Etym: [OE. endenture, OF. endenture, LL. indentura a
deed in duplicate, with indented edges. See the Note below. See
Indent.]

1. The act of indenting, or state of being indented.

2. (Law)

Defn: A mutual agreement in writing between two or more parties,
whereof each party has usually a counterpart or duplicate; sometimes
in the pl., a short form for indentures of apprenticeship, the
contract by which a youth is bound apprentice to a master.
The law is the best expositor of the gospel; they are like a pair of
indentures: they answer in every part. C. Leslie.

Note: Indentures were originally duplicates, laid together and
intended by a notched cut or line, or else written on the same piece
of parchment and separated by a notched line so that the two papers
or parchments corresponded to each other. But indenting has gradually
become a mere form, and is often neglected, while the writings or
counterparts retain the name of indentures.

INDENTURE
In*den"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indentured; p. pr. & vb. n.
Indenturing.]

1. To indent; to make hollows, notches, or wrinkles in; to furrow.
Though age may creep on, and indenture the brow. Woty.

2. To bind by indentures or written contract; as, to indenture an
apprentice.

INDENTURE
In*den"ture, v. i.

Defn: To run or wind in and out; to be cut or notched; to indent.
Heywood.

INDEPENDENCE
In`de*pend"ence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indépendance.]

1. The state or quality of being independent; freedom from
dependence; exemption from reliance on, or control by, others; self-
subsistence or maintenance; direction of one's own affairs without
interference.
Let fortune do her worst, . . . as long as she never makes us lose
our honesty and our independence. Pope.

2. Sufficient means for a comfortable livelihood. Declaration of
Independence (Amer. Hist.), the declaration of the Congress of the
Thirteen United States of America, on the 4th of July, 1776, by which
they formally declared that these colonies were free and independent
States, not subject to the government of Great Britain.

INDEPENDENCE DAY
In`de*pend"ence Day.

Defn: In the United States, a holiday, the 4th of July, commemorating
the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on that day in 1776.

INDEPENDENCY
In`de*pend"en*cy, n.

1. Independence.
"Give me," I cried (enough for me), "My bread, and independency!"
Pope.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: Doctrine and polity of the Independents.

INDEPENDENT
In`de*pend"ent, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + dependent: cf. F.
indépendant.]

1. Not dependent; free; not subject to control by others; not relying
on others; not subordinate; as, few men are wholly independent.
A dry, but independent crust. Cowper.

2. Affording a comfortable livelihood; as, an independent property.

3. Not subject to bias or influence; not obsequious; self-directing;
as, a man of an independent mind.

4. Expressing or indicating the feeling of independence; free; easy;
bold; unconstrained; as, an independent air or manner.

5. Separate from; exclusive; irrespective.
That obligation in general, under which we conceive ourselves bound
to obey a law, independent of those resources which the law provides
for its own enforcement. R. P. Ward.

6. (Eccl.)

Defn: Belonging or pertaining to, or holding to the doctrines or
methods of, the Independents.

7. (Math.)

Defn: Not dependent upon another quantity in respect to value or rate
of variation; -- said of quantities or functions.

8. (U. S. Politics)

Defn: Not bound by party; exercising a free choice in voting with
either or any party. Independent company (Mil.), one not incorporated
in any regiment.
 -- Independent seconds watch, a stop watch having a second hand
driven by a separate set of wheels, springs, etc., for timing to a
fraction of a second.
 -- Independent variable. (Math.) See Dependent variable, under
Dependent.

Syn.
 -- Free; uncontrolled; separate; uncoerced; self-reliant; bold;
unconstrained; unrestricted.

INDEPENDENT
In`de*pend"ent, n.

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: One who believes that an organized Christian church is complete
in itself, competent to self-government, and independent of all
ecclesiastical authority.

Note: In England the name is often applied (commonly in the pl.) to
the Congregationalists.

2. (Politics)

Defn: One who does not acknowledge an obligation to support a party's
candidate under all circumstances; one who exercises liberty in
voting.

INDEPENDENTISM
In`de*pend"ent*ism, n.

Defn: Independency; the church system of Independents. Bp. Gauden.

INDEPENDENTLY
In`de*pend"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an independent manner; without control.

INDEPOSABLE
In`de*pos"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being deposed. [R.]
Princes indeposable by the pope. Bp. Stillingfleet.

INDEPRAVATE
In*dep"ra*vate, a. Etym: [L. indepravatus.]

Defn: Undepraved. [R.] Davies (Holy Roode).

INDEPRECABLE
In*dep"re*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. indeprecabilis. See In- not, and
Deprecate.]

Defn: Incapable or undeserving of being deprecated. Cockeram.

INDEPREHENSIBLE
In*dep`re*hen"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. indeprehensibilis. See In- not,
and Deprehensible.]

Defn: Incapable of being found out. Bp. Morton.

INDEPRIVABLE
In`de*priv"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being deprived, or of being taken away.

INDESCRIBABLE
In`de*scrib"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being described.
 -- In`de*scrib"a*bly, adv.

INDESCRIPTIVE
In`de*scrip"tive, a.

Defn: Not descriptive.

INDESERT
In`de*sert", n.

Defn: Ill desert. [R.] Addison.

INDESINENT
In*des"i*nent, a. Etym: [L. indesinens. See In- not, and Desinent.]

Defn: Not ceasing; perpetual. [Obs.] Baxter.
 -- In*des"i*nent*ly, adv. [Obs.] Ray.

INDESIRABLE
In`de*sir"a*ble, a.

Defn: Undesirable.

INDESTRUCTIBILITY
In`de*struc`ti*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indestructibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being indestructible.

INDESTRUCTIBLE
In`de*struc"ti*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + destructible: cf. F.
indestructible.]

Defn: Not destructible; incapable of decomposition or of being
destroyed.
 -- In`de*struc"ti*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`de*struc"ti*bly, adv.

INDETERMINABLE
In`de*ter"mi*na*ble, a. Etym: [L. indeterminabilis: cf. F.
indéterminable. See In- not, and Determine.]

Defn: Not determinable; impossible to be determined; not to be
definitely known, ascertained, defined, or limited.
 -- In`de*ter"mi*na*bly, adv.

INDETERMINABLE
In`de*ter"mi*na*ble, n.

Defn: An indeterminable thing or quantity. Sir T. Browne.

INDETERMINATE
In`de*ter"mi*nate, a. Etym: [L. indeterminatus.]

Defn: Not determinate; not certain or fixed; indefinite; not precise;
as, an indeterminate number of years. Paley. Indeterminate analysis
(Math.), that branch of analysis which has for its object the
solution of indeterminate problems.
 -- Indeterminate coefficients (Math.), coefficients arbitrarily
assumed for convenience of calculation, or to facilitate some
artifice of analysis. Their values are subsequently determined.
 -- Indeterminate equation (Math.), an equation in which the unknown
quantities admit of an infinite number of values, or sets of values.
A group of equations is indeterminate when it contains more unknown
quantities than there are equations.
 -- Indeterminate inflorescence (Bot.), a mode of inflorescence in
which the flowers all arise from axillary buds, the terminal bud
going on to grow and sometimes continuing the stem indefinitely; --
called also acropetal, botryose, centripetal, and indefinite
inflorescence. Gray.
 -- Indeterminate problem (Math.), a problem which admits of an
infinite number of solutions, or one in which there are fewer imposed
conditions than there are unknown or required results.
 -- Indeterminate quantity (Math.), a quantity which has no fixed
value, but which may be varied in accordance with any proposed
condition.
 -- Indeterminate series (Math.), a series whose terms proceed by the
powers of an indeterminate quantity, sometimes also with
indeterminate exponents, or indeterminate coefficients.
 -- In`de*ter"mi*nate*ly adv.
 -- In`de*ter"mi*nate*ness, n.

INDETERMINATION
In`de*ter`mi*na"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + determination: cf.
indétermination.]

1. Want of determination; an unsettled or wavering state, as of the
mind. Jer. Taylor.

2. Want of fixed or stated direction. Abp. Bramhall.

INDETERMINED
In`de*ter"mined, a.

Defn: Undetermined.

INDEVIRGINATE
In`de*vir"gin*ate, a. Etym: [See In- not, Devirginate.]

Defn: Not devirginate. [Obs.] Chapman.

INDEVOTE
In*de*vote", a. Etym: [L. indevotus: cf. F. indévot. Cf. Indevout.]

Defn: Not devoted. [Obs.] Bentley. Clarendon.

INDEVOTION
In`de*vo"tion, n. Etym: [L. indevotio: cf. F. indévotion.]

Defn: Want of devotion; impiety; irreligion. "An age of indevotion."
Jer. Taylor.

INDEVOUT
In*de*vout", a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + devout. Cf. Indevote.]

Defn: Not devout.
 -- In*de*vout"ly, adv.

INDEW
In*dew", v. t.

Defn: To indue. [Obs.] Spenser.

INDEX
In"dex, n.; pl. E. Indexes, L. Indices(. Etym: [L.: cf. F. index. See
Indicate, Diction.]

1. That which points out; that which shows, indicates, manifests, or
discloses.
Tastes are the indexes of the different qualities of plants.
Arbuthnot.

2. That which guides, points out, informs, or directs; a pointer or a
hand that directs to anything, as the hand of a watch, a movable
finger on a gauge, scale, or other graduated instrument. In printing,
a sign [*] used to direct particular attention to a note or
paragraph; -- called also fist.

3. A table for facilitating reference to topics, names, and the like,
in a book; -- usually alphabetical in arrangement, and printed at the
end of the volume.

4. A prologue indicating what follows. [Obs.] Shak.

5. (Anat.)

Defn: The second digit, that next pollex, in the manus, or hand; the
forefinger; index finger.

6. (Math.)

Defn: The figure or letter which shows the power or root of a
quantity; the exponent. [In this sense the plural is always indices.]
Index error, the error in the reading of a mathematical instrument
arising from the zero of the index not being in complete adjustment
with that of the limb, or with its theoretically perfect position in
the instrument; a correction to be applied to the instrument readings
equal to the error of the zero adjustment.
 -- Index expurgatorius. Etym: [L.] See Index prohibitorius (below).
 -- Index finger. See Index, 5.
 -- Index glass, the mirror on the index of a quadrant, sextant, etc.
 -- Index hand, the pointer or hand of a clock, watch, or other
registering machine; a hand that points to something.
 -- Index of a logarithm (Math.), the integral part of the logarithm,
and always one less than the number of integral figures in the given
number. It is also called the characteristic.
 -- Index of refraction, or Refractive index (Opt.), the number which
expresses the ratio of the sine of the angle of incidence to the sine
of the angle of refraction. Thus the index of refraction for sulphur
is 2, because, when light passes out of air into sulphur, the sine of
the angle of incidence is double the sine of the angle of refraction.
 -- Index plate, a graduated circular plate, or one with circular
rows of holes differently spaced; used in machines for graduating
circles, cutting gear teeth, etc.
 -- Index prohibitorius Etym: [L.], or Prohibitory index (R. C. Ch.),
a catalogue of books which are forbidden by the church to be read;
the index expurgatorius Etym: [L.], or expurgatory index, is a
catalogue of books from which passages marked as against faith or
morals must be removed before Catholics can read them. These
catalogues are published with additions, from time to time, by the
Congregation of the Index, composed of cardinals, theologians, etc.,
under the sanction of the pope. Hook.
 -- Index rerum Etym: [L.], a tabulated and alphabetized notebook,
for systematic preservation of items, quotations, etc.

INDEX
In"dex, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indexed; p. pr. & vb. n. Indexing.]

Defn: To provide with an index or table of references; to put into an
index; as, to index a book, or its contents.

INDEXER
In"dex*er, n.

Defn: One who makes an index.

INDEXICAL
In*dex"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, an index; having the form of an
index.

INDEXICALLY
In*dex"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an index.

INDEXTERITY
In`dex*ter"i*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + dexterity: cf. F.
indextérité.]

Defn: Want of dexterity or readiness, especially in the use of the
hands; clumsiness; awkwardness. Harvey.

INDIA
In"di*a, n. Etym: [See Indian.]

Defn: A country in Southern Asia; the two peninsulas of Hither and
Farther India; in a restricted sense, Hither India, or Hindostan.
India ink, a nearly black pigment brought chiefly from China, used
for water colors. It is in rolls, or in square, and consists of
lampblack or ivory black and animal glue. Called also China ink. The
true India ink is sepia. See Sepia.
 -- India matting, floor matting made in China, India, etc., from
grass and reeds; -- also called Canton, or China, matting.
 -- India paper, a variety of Chinese paper, of smooth but not glossy
surface, used for printing from engravings, woodcuts, etc.
 -- India proof (Engraving), a proof impression from an engraved
plate, taken on India paper.
 -- India rubber. See Caoutchouc.
 -- India-rubber tree (Bot.), any tree yielding caoutchouc, but
especially the East Indian Ficus elastica, often cultivated for its
large, shining, elliptical leaves.

INDIADEM
In*di"a*dem, v. t.

Defn: To place or set in a diadem, as a gem or gems.

INDIAMAN
In"di*a*man, n.; pl. Indiamen (.

Defn: A large vessel in the India trade. Macaulay.

INDIAN
In"di*an, a Etym: [From India, and this fr. Indus, the name of a
river in Asia, L. Indus, Gr. Hindu, name of the land on the Indus,
Skr. sindhu river, the Indus. Cf. Hindoo.]

1. Of or pertaining to India proper; also to the East Indies, or,
sometimes, to the West Indies.

2. Of or pertaining to the aborigines, or Indians, of America; as,
Indian wars; the Indian tomahawk.

3. Made of maize or Indian corn; as, Indian corn, Indian meal, Indian
bread, and the like. [U.S.] Indian bay (Bot.), a lauraceous tree
(Persea Indica).
 -- Indian bean (Bot.), a name of the catalpa.
 -- Indian berry. (Bot.) Same as Cocculus indicus.
 -- Indian bread. (Bot.) Same as Cassava.
 -- Indian club, a wooden club, which is swung by the hand for
gymnastic exercise.
 -- Indian cordage, cordage made of the fibers of cocoanut husk.
 -- Indian corn (Bot.), a plant of the genus Zea (Z. Mays); the
maize, a native of America. See Corn, and Maize.
 -- Indian cress (Bot.), nasturtium. See Nasturtium, 2.
 -- Indian cucumber (Bot.), a plant of the genus Medeola (M.
Virginica), a common in woods in the United States. The white
rootstock has a taste like cucumbers.
 -- Indian currant (Bot.), a plant of the genus Symphoricarpus (S.
vulgaris), bearing small red berries.
 -- Indian dye, the puccoon.
 -- Indian fig. (Bot.) (a) The banyan. See Banyan. (b) The prickly
pear.
 -- Indian file, single file; arrangement of persons in a row
following one after another, the usual way among Indians of
traversing woods, especially when on the war path.
 -- Indian fire, a pyrotechnic composition of sulphur, niter, and
realgar, burning with a brilliant white light.
 -- Indian grass (Bot.), a coarse, high grass (Chrysopogon nutans),
common in the southern portions of the United States; wood grass.
Gray.
 -- Indian hemp. (Bot.) (a) A plant of the genus Apocynum (A.
cannabinum), having a milky juice, and a tough, fibrous bark, whence
the name. The root it used in medicine and is both emetic and
cathartic in properties. (b) The variety of common hemp (Cannabis
Indica), from which hasheesh is obtained.
 -- Indian mallow (Bot.), the velvet leaf (Abutilon Avicennæ). See
Abutilon.
 -- Indian meal, ground corn or maize. [U.S.] -- Indian millet
(Bot.), a tall annual grass (Sorghum vulgare), having many varieties,
among which are broom corn, Guinea corn, durra, and the Chinese sugar
cane. It is called also Guinea corn. See Durra.
 -- Indian ox (Zoöl.), the zebu.
 -- Indian paint. See Bloodroot.
 -- Indian paper. See India paper, under India.
 -- Indian physic (Bot.), a plant of two species of the genus
Gillenia (G. trifoliata, and G. stipulacea), common in the United
States, the roots of which are used in medicine as a mild emetic; --
called also American ipecac, and bowman's root. Gray.
 -- Indian pink. (Bot.) (a) The Cypress vine (Ipomoea Quamoclit); --
so called in the West Indies. (b) See China pink, under China.
 -- Indian pipe (Bot.), a low, fleshy herb (Monotropa uniflora),
growing in clusters in dark woods, and having scalelike leaves, and a
solitary nodding flower. The whole plant is waxy white, but turns
black in drying.
 -- Indian plantain (Bot.), a name given to several species of the
genus Cacalia, tall herbs with composite white flowers, common
through the United States in rich woods. Gray.
 -- Indian poke (Bot.), a plant usually known as the white hellebore
(Veratrum viride).
 -- Indian pudding, a pudding of which the chief ingredients are
Indian meal, milk, and molasses.
 -- Indian purple. (a) A dull purple color. (b) The pigment of the
same name, intensely blue and black.
 -- Indian red. (a) A purplish red earth or pigment composed of a
silicate of iron and alumina, with magnesia. It comes from the
Persian Gulf. Called also Persian red. (b) See Almagra.
 -- Indian rice (Bot.), a reedlike water grass. See Rice.
 -- Indian shot (Bot.), a plant of the genus Canna (C. Indica). The
hard black seeds are as large as swan shot. See Canna.
 -- Indian summer, in the United States, a period of warm and
pleasant weather occurring late in autumn. See under Summer.
 -- Indian tobacco (Bot.), a species of Lobelia. See Lobelia.
 -- Indian turnip (Bot.), an American plant of the genus Arisæma. A.
triphyllum has a wrinkled farinaceous root resembling a small turnip,
but with a very acrid juice. See Jack in the Pulpit, and Wake-robin.
 -- Indian wheat, maize or Indian corn.
 -- Indian yellow. (a) An intense rich yellow color, deeper than
gamboge but less pure than cadmium. (b) See Euxanthin.

INDIAN
In"di*an, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of India.

2. One of the aboriginal inhabitants of America; -- so called
originally from the supposed identity of America with India.

INDIANEER
In`di*an*eer", n. (Naut.)

Defn: An Indiaman.

INDIA RUBBER
In"di*a rub"ber

Defn: . See Caoutchouc.

INDIA STEEL
In"di*a steel.

Defn: Same as Wootz.

INDICAL
In"dic*al, a. Etym: [From L. index, indicis, an index.]

Defn: Indexical. [R.] Fuller.

INDICAN
In"di*can, n. Etym: [See Indigo.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside obtained from woad (indigo plant) and other plants,
as a yellow or light brown sirup. It has a nauseous bitter taste, a
decomposes or drying. By the action of acids, ferments, etc., it
breaks down into sugar and indigo. It is the source of natural
indigo.

2. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: An indigo-forming substance, found in urine, and other animal
fluids, and convertible into red and blue indigo (urrhodin and
uroglaucin). Chemically, it is indoxyl sulphate of potash, C8H6NSO4K,
and is derived from the indol formed in the alimentary canal. Called
also uroxanthin.

INDICANT
In"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. indicans, p. pr. indicare. See Indicate.]

Defn: Serving to point out, as a remedy; indicating.

INDICANT
In"di*cant, n.

Defn: That which indicates or points out; as, an indicant of the
remedy for a disease.

INDICATE
In"di*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Indicating.] Etym: [L. indicatus, p. p. of indicare to indicate;
pref. in- in + dicare to proclaim; akin to dicere to say. See
Diction, and cf. Indict, Indite.]

1. To point out; to discover; to direct to a knowledge of; to show;
to make known.
That turns and turns to indicate From what point blows the weather.
Cowper.

2. (Med.)

Defn: To show or manifest by symptoms; to point to as the proper
remedies; as, great prostration of strength indicates the use of
stimulants.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: To investigate the condition or power of, as of steam engine,
by means of an indicator.

Syn.
 -- To show; mark; signify; denote; discover; evidence; evince;
manifest; declare; specify; explain; exhibit; present; reveal;
disclose; display.

INDICATED
In"di*ca`ted, a.

Defn: Shown; denoted; registered; measured. Indicated power. See
Indicated horse power, under Horse power.

INDICATION
In`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. indicatio: cf. F. indication.]

1. Act of pointing out or indicating.

2. That which serves to indicate or point out; mark; token; sign;
symptom; evidence.
The frequent stops they make in the most convenient places are plain
indications of their weariness. Addison.

3. Discovery made; information. Bentley.

4. Explanation; display. [Obs.] Bacon.

5. (Med.)

Defn: Any symptom or occurrence in a disease, which serves to direct
to suitable remedies.

Syn.
 -- Proof; demonstration; sign; token; mark; evidence; signal.

INDICATIVE
In*dic"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. indicativus: cf. F. indicatif.]

1. Pointing out; bringing to notice; giving intimation or knowledge
of something not visible or obvious.
That truth id productive of utility, and utility indicative of truth,
may be thus proved. Bp. Warburton.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Suggestive; representing the whole by a part, as a fleet by a
ship, a forest by a tree, etc. Indicative mood (Gram.), that mood or
form of the verb which indicates, that is, which simply affirms or
denies or inquires; as, he writes; he is not writing; has the mail
arrived

INDICATIVE
In*dic"a*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: The indicative mood.

INDICATIVELY
In*dic"a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an indicative manner; in a way to show or signify.

INDICATOR
In"di*ca`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. indicateur.]

1. One who, or that which, shows or points out; as, a fare indicator
in a street car.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A pressure gauge; a water gauge, as for a steam boiler; an
apparatus or instrument for showing the working of a machine or
moving part; as:
(a) (Steam Engine) An instrument which draws a diagram showing the
varying pressure in the cylinder of an engine or pump at every point
of the stroke. It consists of a small cylinder communicating with the
engine cylinder and fitted with a piston which the varying pressure
drives upward more or less against the resistance of a spring. A
lever imparts motion to a pencil which traces the diagram on a card
wrapped around a vertical drum which is turned back and forth by a
string connected with the piston rod of the engine. See Indicator
card (below).
(b) A telltale connected with a hoisting machine, to show, at the
surface, the position of the cage in the shaft of a mine, etc.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: The part of an instrument by which an effect is indicated, as
an index or pointer.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the genus Indicator and allied genera. See Honey
guide, under Honey.

5. (Chem.)

Defn: That which indicates the condition of acidity, alkalinity, or
the deficiency, excess, or sufficiency of a standard reagent, by
causing an appearance, disappearance, or change of color, as in
titration or volumetric analysis.

Note: The common indicators are limits, tropæolin, phenol phthalein,
potassic permanganate, etc. Indicator card, the figure drawn by an
engine indicator, by means of which the working of the engine can be
investigated and its power calculated. The Illustration shows one
form of indicator card, from a steam engine, together with scales by
which the pressure of the steam above or below that of the
atmosphere, corresponding to any position of the engine piston in its
stroke, can be measured. Called also indicator diagram.
 -- Indicator telegraph, a telegraph in which the signals are the
deflections of a magnetic needle, as in the trans-Atlantic system.

INDICATORY
In"di*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving to show or make known; showing; indicative; signifying;
implying.

INDICATRIX
In`di*ca"trix, n. Etym: [NL.] (Geom. of Three Dimensions)

Defn: A certain conic section supposed to be drawn in the tangent
plane to any surface, and used to determine the accidents of
curvature of the surface at the point of contact. The curve is
similar to the intersection of the surface with a parallel to the
tangent plane and indefinitely near it. It is an ellipse when the
curvature is synclastic, and an hyperbola when the curvature is
anticlastic.

INDICAVIT
In`di*ca"vit, n. Etym: [L., he has indicated.] (Eng. Law)

Defn: A writ of prohibition against proceeding in the spiritual court
in certain cases, when the suit belongs to the common-law courts.
Wharton (Law Dict. ).

INDICE
In"dice, n. Etym: [F. indice indication, index. See Index.]

Defn: Index; indication. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

INDICES
In"di*ces, n. pl.

Defn: See Index.

INDICIA
In*di"ci*a, n. pl. Etym: [L., pl. of indicium, fr. index an index.]
(Law)

Defn: Discriminating marks; signs; tokens; indications; appearances.
Burrill.

INDICIBLE
In*dic"i*ble, a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Unspeakable. [Obs.]

INDICOLITE
In*dic"o*lite, n. Etym: [L. indicum indigo + -lite: cf. F.
indicolithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of tourmaline of an indigo-blue color.

INDICT
In*dict", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indicted; p. pr. & vb. n. Indicting.]
Etym: [OE. enditen. See Indite.]

1. To write; to compose; to dictate; to indite. [Obs.]

2. To appoint publicly or by authority; to proclaim or announce.
[Obs.]
I am told shall have no Lent indicted this year. Evelyn.

3. (Law)

Defn: To charge with a crime, in due form of law, by the finding or
presentment of a grand jury; to find an indictment against; as, to
indict a man for arson. It is the peculiar province of a grand jury
to indict, as it is of a house of representatives to impeach.

INDICTABLE
In*dict"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being, or liable to be, indicted; subject to
indictment; as, an indictable offender or offense.

INDICTEE
In`dict*ee", n. (Law)

Defn: A person indicted.

INDICTER
In*dict"er, n.

Defn: One who indicts.

INDICTION
In*dic"tion, n. Etym: [L. indictio: cf. F. indiction. See Indict,
Indite.]

1. Declaration; proclamation; public notice or appointment. [Obs.]
"Indiction of a war." Bacon.
Secular princes did use to indict, or permit the indiction of, synods
of bishops. Jer. Taylor.

2. A cycle of fifteen years.

Note: This mode of reckoning time is said to have been introduced by
Constantine the Great, in connection with the payment of tribute. It
was adopted at various times by the Greek emperors of Constantinople,
the popes, and the parliaments of France. Through the influence of
the popes, it was extensively used in the ecclesiastical chronology
of the Middle Ages. The number of indictions was reckoned at first
from 312 a. d., but since the twelfth century it has been reckoned
from the birth of Christ. The papal indiction is the only one ever
used at the present day. To find the indiction and year of the
indiction by the first method, subtract 312 from the given year a.
d., and divide by 15; by the second method, add 3 to the given year
a. d., and the divide by 15. In either case, the quotient is the
number of the current indiction, and the remainder the year of the
indiction. See Cycle of indiction, under Cycle.

INDICTIVE
In*dic"tive, a. Etym: [L. indictivus. See Indict.]

Defn: Proclaimed; declared; public. Kennet.

INDICTMENT
In*dict"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. Inditement.]

1. The act of indicting, or the state of being indicted.

2. (Law)

Defn: The formal statement of an offense, as framed by the
prosecuting authority of the State, and found by the grand jury.

Note: To the validity of an indictment a finding by the grand jury is
essential, while an information rests only on presentation by the
prosecuting authority.

3. An accusation in general; a formal accusation. Bill of indictment.
See under Bill.

INDICTOR
In*dict"or, n. (Law)

Defn: One who indicts. Bacon.

INDIES
In"dies, n. pl.

Defn: A name designating the East Indies, also the West Indies.
Our king has all the Indies in his arms. Shak.

INDIFFERENCE
In*dif"fer*ence, n. Etym: [L. indifferentia similarity, want of
difference: cf. F. indifférence.]

1. The quality or state of being indifferent, or not making a
difference; want of sufficient importance to constitute a difference;
absence of weight; insignificance.

2. Passableness; mediocrity.

3. Impartiality; freedom from prejudice, prepossession, or bias.
He . . . is far from such indifference and equity as ought and must
be in judges which he saith I assign. Sir T. More.

4. Absence of anxiety or interest in respect to what is presented to
the mind; unconcernedness; as, entire indifference to all that
occurs.
Indifference can not but be criminal, when it is conversant about
objects which are so far from being of an indifferent nature, that
they are highest importance. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Carelessness; negligence; unconcern; apathy; insensibility;
coldness; lukewarmness.

INDIFFERENCY
In*dif"fer*en*cy, n.

Defn: Absence of interest in, or influence from, anything;
unconcernedness; equilibrium; indifferentism; indifference.
Gladstone.
To give ourselves to a detestable indifferency or neutrality in this
cause. Fuller.
Moral liberty . . . does not, after all, consist in a power of
indifferency, or in a power of choosing without regard to motives.
Hazlitt.

INDIFFERENT
In*dif"fer*ent, a. Etym: [F. indifférent, L. indifferens. See In-
not, and Different.]

1. Not mal
Dangers are to me indifferent. Shak.
Everything in the world is indifferent but sin. Jer. Taylor.
His slightest and most indifferent acts . . . were odious in the
clergyman's sight. Hawthorne.

2. Neither particularly good, not very bad; of a middle state or
quality; passable; mediocre.
The staterooms are in indifferent order. Sir W. Scott.

3. Not inclined to one side, party, or choice more than to another;
neutral; impartial.
Indifferent in his choice to sleep or die. Addison.

4. Feeling no interest, anxiety, or care, respecting anything;
unconcerned; inattentive; apathetic; heedless; as, to be indifferent
to the welfare of one's family.
It was a law of Solon, that any person who, in the civil commotions
of the republic, remained neuter, or an indifferent spectator of the
contending parties, should be condemned to perpetual banishment.
Addison.

5. (Law)

Defn: Free from bias or prejudice; impartial; unbiased;
disinterested.
In choice of committees for ripening business for the counsel, it is
better indifferent persons than to make an indifferency by putting in
those that are strong on both sides. Bacon.
Indifferent tissue (Anat.), the primitive, embryonic,
undifferentiated tissue, before conversion into connective, muscular,
nervous, or other definite tissue.

INDIFFERENT
In*dif"fer*ent, adv.

Defn: To a moderate degree; passably; tolerably. [Obs.] "News
indifferent good." Shak.

INDIFFERENTISM
In*dif"fer*ent*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indifférentisme.]

1. State of indifference; want of interest or earnestness;
especially, a systematic apathy regarding what is true or false in
religion or philosophy; agnosticism.
The indifferentism which equalizes all religions and gives equal
rights to truth and error. Cardinal Manning.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: Same as Identism.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A heresy consisting in an unconcern for any particular creed,
provided the morals be right and good. Gregory XVI.

INDIFFERENTIST
In*dif"fer*ent*ist, n.

Defn: One governed by indifferentism.

INDIFFERENTLY
In*dif"fer*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an indifferent manner; without distinction or preference;
impartially; without concern, wish, affection, or aversion;
tolerably; passably.
That they may truly and indifferently minister justice, to the
punishment of wickedness and vice, and to the maintenance of thy true
religion, and virtue. Book of Com. Prayer [Eng. Ed. ]
Set honor in one eye and death i' the other, And I will look on both
indifferently. Shak.
I hope it may indifferently entertain your lordship at an unbending
hour. Rowe.

INDIFULVIN
In`di*ful"vin, n. Etym: [Indican + L. fulvus reddish yellow.] (Chem.)

Defn: A reddish resinous substance, obtained from indican.

INDIFUSCIN
In`di*fus"cin, n. Etym: [Indican + L. fuscus dusky.] (Chem.)

Defn: A brown amorphous powder, obtained from indican.

INDIGEEN
In"di*geen, n.

Defn: Same as Indigene. Darwin.

INDIGENCE
In"di*gence, n. Etym: [L. indigentia: cf. F. indigence. See
Indigent.]

Defn: The condition of being indigent; want of estate, or means of
comfortable subsistence; penury; poverty; as, helpless, indigence.
Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Poverty; penury; destitution; want; need; privation; lack. See
Poverty.

INDIGENCY
In"di*gen*cy, n.

Defn: Indigence.
New indigencies founded upon new desires. South.

INDIGENE
In"di*gene, n. Etym: [L. indigena: cf. F. indigène. See Indigenous.]

Defn: One born in a country; an aboriginal animal or plant; an
autochthon. Evelyn. Tylor.

INDIGENOUS
In*dig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. indigenus, indigena, fr. OL. indu (fr. in
in) + the root of L. gignere to beget, bear. See In, and Gender.]

1. Native; produced, growing, or living, naturally in a country or
climate; not exotic; not imported.
Negroes were all transported from Africa and are not indigenous or
proper natives of America. Sir T. Browne.
In America, cotton, being indigenous, is cheap. Lion Playas.

2. Native; inherent; innate.
Joy and hope are emotions indigenous to the human mind. I. Taylor.

INDIGENT
In"di*gent, a. Etym: [L. indigent, L. indigens, p. p. of indigere to
stand in need of, fr. OL. indu (fr. in- in) + L. egere to be needy,
to need.]

1. Wanting; void; free; destitute; -- used with of. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. Destitute of property or means of comfortable subsistence; needy;
poor; in want; necessitous.
Indigent faint souls past corporal toil. Shak.
Charity consists in relieving the indigent. Addison.

INDIGENTLY
In"di*gent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an indigent manner.

INDIGEST
In`di*gest", a. Etym: [L. indigestus unarranged. See Indigested.]

Defn: Crude; unformed; unorganized; undigested. [Obs.] "A chaos rude
and indigest." W. Browne. "Monsters and things indigest." Shak.

INDIGEST
In`di*gest", n.

Defn: Something indigested. [Obs.] Shak.

INDIGESTED
In`di*gest"ed, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + digested.]

1. Not digested; undigested. "Indigested food." Dryden.

2. Not resolved; not regularly disposed and arranged; not methodical;
crude; as, an indigested array of facts.
In hot reformations . . . the whole is generally crude, harsh, and
indigested. Burke.
This, like an indigested meteor, appeared and disappeared almost at
the same time. South.

3. (Med.)
(a) Not in a state suitable for healing; -- said of wounds.
(b) Not ripened or suppurated; -- said of an abscess or its contents.

4. Not softened by heat, hot water, or steam.

INDIGESTEDNESS
In`di*gest"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being undigested; crudeness. Bp.
Burnet.

INDIGESTIBILITY
In*di*gest`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being indigestible; indigestibleness.

INDIGESTIBLE
In`di*gest"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. indigestibilis: cf. F. indigestible.
See In- not, and Digest.]

1. Not digestible; not readily soluble in the digestive juices; not
easily convertible into products fitted for absorption.

2. Not digestible in the mind; distressful; intolerable; as, an
indigestible simile. T. Warton.
 -- In`di*gest"i*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`di*gest"i*bly, adv.

INDIGESTION
In`di*ges"tion, n. Etym: [L. indigestio: cf. F. indigestion. See In-
not, and Digest.]

Defn: Lack of proper digestive action; a failure of the normal
changes which food should undergo in the alimentary canal; dyspepsia;
incomplete or difficult digestion.

INDIGITATE
In*dig"i*tate, v. i. Etym: [Pref. in- in + L. digitus finger.]

Defn: To communicative ideas by the fingers; to show or compute by
the fingers. [Obs.]

INDIGITATE
In*dig"i*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indigitated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Indigitating.]

Defn: To point out with the finger; to indicate. [Obs.]
The depressing this finger, . . . in the right hand indigitate six
hundred. Sir T. Browne.

INDIGITATION
In*dig`i*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of pointing out as with the finger; indication. [Obs.]
Dr. H. More.

INDIGLUCIN
In`di*glu"cin, n. Etym: [Indican + glucin.] (Chem.)

Defn: The variety of sugar (glucose) obtained from the glucoside
indican. It is unfermentable, but reduces Fehling's solution.

INDIGN
In*dign", a. Etym: [L. indignus; pref. in- not + dignus worthy: cf.
F. indigne. See Dignity.]

Defn: Unworthy; undeserving; disgraceful; degrading. Chaucer.
Counts it scorn to draw Comfort indign from any meaner thing. Trench.

INDIGNANCE; INDIGNANCY
In*dig"nance, In*dig"nan*cy, n.

Defn: Indignation. [Obs.] Spenser.

INDIGNANT
In*dig"nant, a. Etym: [L. indignans, -antis, p. pr. of indignari to
be indignant, disdain. See Indign.]

Defn: Affected with indignation; wrathful; passionate; irate; feeling
wrath, as when a person is exasperated by unworthy or unjust
treatment, by a mean action, or by a degrading accusation.
He strides indignant, and with haughty cries To single fight the
fairy prince defies. Tickell.

INDIGNANTLY
In*dig"nant*ly, adv.

Defn: In an indignant manner.

INDIGNATION
In`dig*na"tion, n. Etym: [F. indignation, L. indignatio. See Indign.]

1. The feeling excited by that which is unworthy, base, or
disgraceful; anger mingled with contempt, disgust, or abhorrence.
Shak.
Indignation expresses a strong and elevated disapprobation of mind,
which is also inspired by something flagitious in the conduct of
another. Cogan.
When Haman saw Mordecai in the king's gate, that he stood not up, nor
moved for him, he was full of indignation against Mordecai. Esther v.
9.

2. The effect of anger; punishment. Shak.
Hide thyself . . . until the indignation be overpast. Is. xxvi. 20.

Syn.
 -- Anger; ire wrath; fury; rage. See Anger.

INDIGNIFY
In*dig"ni*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. indignus unworthy + -fy.]

Defn: To treat disdainfully or with indignity; to contemn. [Obs.]
Spenser.

INDIGNITY
In*dig"ni*ty, n.; pl. Indignities. Etym: [L. indignitas: cf. F.
indignité. See Indign.]

Defn: Any action toward another which manifests contempt for him; an
offense against personal dignity; unmerited contemptuous treatment;
contumely; incivility or injury, accompanied with insult.
How might a prince of my great hopes forget So great indignities you
laid upon me Shak.
A person of so great place and worth constrained to endure so foul
indignities. Hooker.

INDIGNLY
In*dign"ly, adv.

Defn: Unworthily. [Obs.]

INDIGO
In"di*go, n.; pl. Indigoes. Etym: [F. indigo, Sp. indigo, indico, L.
indicum indigo, fr. Indicus Indian. See Indian.]

1. A kind of deep blue, one of the seven prismatic colors.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A blue dyestuff obtained from several plants belonging to very
different genera and orders; as, the woad, Isatis tinctoria,
Indigofera tinctoria, I. Anil, Nereum tinctorium, etc. It is a dark
blue earthy substance, tasteless and odorless, with a copper-violet
luster when rubbed. Indigo does not exist in the plants as such, but
is obtained by decomposition of the glycoside indican.

Note: Commercial indigo contains the essential coloring principle
indigo blue or indigotine, with several other dyes; as, indigo red,
indigo brown, etc., and various impurities. Indigo is insoluble in
ordinary reagents, with the exception of strong sulphuric acid.
Chinese indigo (Bot.), Isatis indigotica, a kind of woad.
 -- Wild indigo (Bot.), the American herb Baptisia tinctoria which
yields a poor quality of indigo, as do several other species of the
same genus.

INDIGO
In"di*go, a.

Defn: Having the color of, pertaining to, or derived from, indigo.
Indigo berry (Bot.), the fruit of the West Indian shrub Randia
aculeata, used as a blue dye.
 -- Indigo bird (Zoöl.), a small North American finch (Cyanospiza
cyanea). The male is indigo blue in color. Called also indigo
bunting.
 -- Indigo blue. (a) The essential coloring material of commercial
indigo, from which it is obtained as a dark blue earthy powder, with
a reddish luster, C16H10N2O2, which may be crystallized by
sublimation. Indigo blue is also made from artificial amido cinnamic
acid, and from artificial isatine; and these methods are of great
commercial importance. Called also indigotin. (b) A dark, dull blue
color like the indigo of commerce.
 -- Indigo brown (Chem.), a brown resinous substance found in crude
indigo.
 -- Indigo copper (Min.), covellite.
 -- Indigo green, a green obtained from indigo.
 -- Indigo plant (Bot.), a leguminous plant of several species (genus
Indigofera), from which indigo is prepared. The different varieties
are natives of Asia, Africa, and America. Several species are
cultivated, of which the most important are the I. tinctoria, or
common indigo plant, the I. Anil, a larger species, and the I.
disperma.
 -- Indigo purple, a purple obtained from indigo.
 -- Indigo red, a dyestuff, isomeric with indigo blue, obtained from
crude indigo as a dark brown amorphous powder.
 -- Indigo snake (Zoöl.), the gopher snake.
 -- Indigo white, a white crystalline powder obtained by reduction
from indigo blue, and by oxidation easily changed back to it; --
called also indigogen.
 -- Indigo yellow, a substance obtained from indigo.

INDIGOFERA
In`di*gof"e*ra, n. Etym: [NL., from E. indigo + L. ferre to bear.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of leguminous plants having many species, mostly in
tropical countries, several of them yielding indigo, esp. Indigofera
tinctoria, and I. Anil.

INDIGOGEN
In"di*go*gen, n. Etym: [Indigo + -gen.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: See Indigo white, under Indigo.

2. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Same as Indican, 2.

INDIGOMETER
In`di*gom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Indigo + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the strength of an indigo
solution, as in volumetric analysis. Ure.

INDIGOMETRY
In`di*gom"e*try, n.

Defn: The art or method of determining the coloring power of indigo.

INDIGOTIC
In`di*got"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. indigotique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, indigo; as, indigotic acid,
which is also called anilic or nitrosalicylic acid.

INDIGOTIN
In"di*go*tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Indigo blue, under Indigo.

INDIGRUBIN
In`dig*ru"bin, n. Etym: [Indigo + L. ruber red.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Same as Urrhodin.

INDIHUMIN
In`di*hu"min, n. Etym: [Indican + humin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A brown amorphous substance resembling humin, and obtained from
indican.

INDILATORY
In*dil"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Not dilatory. [Obs.]

INDILIGENCE
In*dil"i*gence, n. Etym: [L. indiligentia: cf. F. indiligence.]

Defn: Want of diligence. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

INDILIGENT
In*dil"i*gent, a. Etym: [L. indiligens: cf. F. indiligent. See
Diligent.]

Defn: Not diligent; idle; slothful. [Obs.] Feltham.
 -- In*dil"i*gent*ly, adv. [Obs.]

INDIMINISHABLE
In`di*min"ish*a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being diminished. [R.] Milton.

INDIN
In"din, n. Etym: [From Indigo.] (Chem.)

Defn: A dark red crystalline substance, isomeric with and resembling
indigo blue, and obtained from isatide and dioxindol.

INDIRECT
In`di*rect", a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + direct: cf. F. indirect.]

1. Not direct; not straight or rectilinear; deviating from a direct
line or course; circuitous; as, an indirect road.

2. Not tending to an aim, purpose, or result by the plainest course,
or by obvious means, but obliquely or consequentially; by remote
means; as, an indirect accusation, attack, answer, or proposal.
By what bypaths and indirect, crooked ways I met this crown. Shak.

3. Not straightforward or upright; unfair; dishonest; tending to
mislead or deceive.
Indirect dealing will be discovered one time or other. Tillotson.

4. Not resulting directly from an act or cause, but more or less
remotely connected with or growing out of it; as, indirect results,
damages, or claims.

5. (Logic & Math.)

Defn: Not reaching the end aimed at by the most plain and direct
method; as, an indirect proof, demonstration, etc. Indirect claims,
claims for remote or consequential damage. Such claims were presented
to and thrown out by the commissioners who arbitrated the damage
inflicted on the United States by the Confederate States cruisers
built and supplied by Great Britain.
 -- Indirect demonstration, a mode of demonstration in which proof is
given by showing that any other supposition involves an absurdity
(reductio ad absurdum), or an impossibility; thus, one quantity may
be proved equal to another by showing that it can be neither greater
nor less.
 -- Indirect discourse. (Gram.) See Direct discourse, under Direct.
 -- Indirect evidence, evidence or testimony which is circumstantial
or inferential, but without witness; -- opposed to direct evidence.
 -- Indirect tax, a tax, such as customs, excises, etc., exacted
directly from the merchant, but paid indirectly by the consumer in
the higher price demanded for the articles of merchandise.

INDIRECTED
In`di*rect"ed, a.

Defn: Not directed; aimless. [Obs.]

INDIRECTION
In`di*rec"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indirection.]

Defn: Oblique course or means; dishonest practices; indirectness. "By
indirections find directions out." Shak.

INDIRECTLY
In`di*rect"ly, adv.

Defn: In an direct manner; not in a straight line or course; not in
express terms; obliquely; not by direct means; hence, unfairly;
wrongly.
To tax it indirectly by taxing their expense. A. Smith.
Your crown and kingdom indirectly held. Shak.

INDIRECTNESS
In`di*rect"ness, n.

1. The quality or state of being indirect; obliquity; deviousness;
crookedness.

2. Deviation from an upright or straightforward course; unfairness;
dishonesty. W. Montagu.

INDIRETIN
In`di*re"tin, n. Etym: [Indian + Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A dark brown resinous substance obtained from indican.

INDIRUBIN
In`di*ru"bin, n. Etym: [Indigo + L. ruber red.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance isomeric with, and resembling, indigo blue, and
accompanying it as a side product, in its artificial production.

INDISCERNIBLE
In`dis*cern"i*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + discernible: cf. F.
indiscernable.]

Defn: Not to be discerned; imperceptible; not discoverable or
visible.
Secret and indiscernible ways. Jer. Taylor.
-- In`dis*cern"i*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`dis*cern"i*bly, adv.

INDISCERPIBILITY; INDISCERPTIBILITY
In`dis*cerp`i*bil"i*ty, In`dis*cerp`ti*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being indiscerpible. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

INDISCERPIBLE; INDISCERPTIBLE
In`dis*cerp"i*ble, In`dis*cerp"ti*ble, a.

Defn: Not discerpible; inseparable. [Obs.] Bp. Butler.
 -- In`dis*cerp"i*ble*ness, n., In`dis*cerp"ti*ble*ness, n. [Obs.] --
In`dis*cerp"ti*bly, adv. [Obs.]

INDISCIPLINABLE
In*dis"ci*plin*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + disciplinable: cf. F.
indisciplinable.]

Defn: Not disciplinable; undisciplinable. [R.]

INDISCIPLINE
In*dis"ci*pline, n. Etym: [L. indisplina: cf. F. indiscipline. See
In- not, and Discipline.]

Defn: Want of discipline or instruction. [R.]

INDISCOVERABLE
In`dis*cov"er*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not discoverable; undiscoverable. J. Conybeare.

INDISCOVERY
In`dis*cov"er*y, n.

Defn: Want of discovery. [Obs.]

INDISCREET
In`dis*creet", a. Etym: [OE. indiscret, F. indiscret, fr. L.
indiscretus unseparated, indiscreet. See In- not, and Discreet, and
cf. Indiscrete.]

Defn: Not discreet; wanting in discretion.
So drunken, and so indiscreet an officer. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Imprudent; injudicious; inconsiderate; rash; hasty; incautious;
heedless; undiscerning; foolish.
 -- In`dis*creet"ly, adv.
 -- In`dis*creet"ness, n.

INDISCRETE
In`dis*crete", a. Etym: [L. indiscretus unseparated. See Indiscreet.]

1. Indiscreet. [Obs.] Boyle.

2. Not discrete or separated; compact; homogenous.
An indiscrete mass of confused matter. Pownall.

INDISCRETION
In`dis*cre"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + discretion: cf. F.
indiscrétion.]

1. The quality or state of being indiscreet; want of discretion;
imprudence.

2. An indiscreet act; indiscreet behavior.
Past indiscretion is a venial crime. Cowper.

INDISCRIMINATE
In`dis*crim"i*nate, a.

Defn: Not discriminate; wanting discrimination; undistinguishing; not
making any distinction; confused; promiscuous. "Blind or
indiscriminate forgiveness." I. Taylor.
The indiscriminate defense of right and wrong. Junius.
-- In`dis*crim"i*nate*ly, adv. Cowper.

INDISCRIMINATING
In`dis*crim"i*na`ting, a.

Defn: Not discriminating.
 -- In`dis*crim"i*na`ting*ly, adv.

INDISCRIMINATION
In`dis*crim`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: Want of discrimination or distinction; impartiality. Jefferson.

INDISCRIMINATIVE
In`dis*crim"i*na*tive, a.

Defn: Making no distinction; not discriminating.

INDISCUSSED
In`dis*cussed", a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + discuss: cf. L.
indiscussus.]

Defn: Not discussed. [Obs.] Donne.

INDISPENSABILITY
In`dis*pen`sa*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indispensabilité.]

Defn: Indispensableness.

INDISPENSABLE
In`dis*pen"sa*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + dispensable: cf. F.
indispensable.]

1. Not dispensable; impossible to be omitted, remitted, or spared;
absolutely necessary or requisite.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: Not admitting dispensation; not subject to release or
exemption. [R.]
The law was moral and indispensable. Bp. Burnet.

3. Unavoidable; inevitable. [Obs.] Fuller.

INDISPENSABLENESS
In`dis*pen"sa*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being indispensable, or absolutely
necessary. S. Clarke.

INDISPENSABLY
In`dis*pen"sa*bly, adv.

Defn: In an indispensable manner. "Indispensably necessary." Bp.
Warburton.

INDISPERSED
In`dis*persed", a.

Defn: Not dispersed. [R.]

INDISPOSE
In`dis*pose", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indisposed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Indisposing.] Etym: [OE. indispos indisposed, feeble, or F. indisposé
indisposed. See In- not, and Dispose.]

1. To render unfit or unsuited; to disqualify.

2. To disorder slightly as regards health; to make somewhat. Shak.
It made him rather indisposed than sick. Walton.

3. To disincline; to render averse or unfavorable; as, a love of
pleasure indisposes the mind to severe study; the pride and
selfishness of men indispose them to religious duties.
The king was sufficiently indisposed towards the persons, or the
principles, of Calvin's disciples. Clarendon.

INDISPOSEDNESS
In`dis*pos"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of being indisposed. [R.] Bp. Hall.

INDISPOSITION
In*dis`po*si"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indisposition.]

1. The state of being indisposed; disinclination; as, the
indisposition of two substances to combine.
A general indisposition towards believing. Atterbury.

2. A slight disorder or illness.
Rather as an indisposition in health than as any set sickness.
Hayward.

INDISPUTABILITY
In*dis`pu*ta*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indisputabilité.]

Defn: Indisputableness.

INDISPUTABLE
In*dis"pu*ta*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + disputable: cf. F.
indisputable.]

Defn: Not disputable; incontrovertible; too evident to admit of
dispute.

Syn.
 -- Incontestable; unquestionable; incontrovertible; undeniable;
irrefragable; certain; positive; undoubted; sure; infallible.
 -- In*dis"pu*ta*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*dis"pu*ta*bly, adv.

INDISPUTED
In`dis*put"ed, a.

Defn: Undisputed.

INDISSIPABLE
In*dis"si*pa*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable o

INDISSOLUBILITY
In*dis`so*lu*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indissolubilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being indissoluble.

INDISSOLUBLE
In*dis"so*lu*ble, a. Etym: [L. indissolubilis: cf. F. indissoluble.
See In- not, and Dissoluble, and cf. Indissolvable.]

1. Not dissoluble; not capable of being dissolved, melted, or
liquefied; insoluble; as few substances are indissoluble by heat, but
many are indissoluble in water. Boyle.

2. Incapable of being rightfully broken or dissolved; perpetually
binding or obligatory; firm; stable, as, an indissoluble league or
covenant.
To the which my duties Are with a most indissoluble tie Forever knit.
Shak.

INDISSOLUBLENESS
In*dis"so*lu*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Indissolubility. Sir M. Hale.

INDISSOLUBLY
In*dis"so*lu*bly, adv.

Defn: In an indissoluble manner.
On they move, indissolubly firm. Milton.

INDISSOLVABLE
In`dis*solv"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + dissolvable. Cf.
Indissoluble.]

Defn: Not dissolvable; incapable of being dissolved or separated;
incapable oas, an indissolvable bond of union. Bp. Warburton.

INDISSOLVABLENESS
In`dis*solv"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Indissolubleness.

INDISTANCY
In*dis"tan*cy, n.

Defn: Want of distance o [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.

INDISTINCT
In`dis*tinct", a. Etym: [L. indistinctus: cf. F. indistinct. See In-
not, and Distinct.]

1. Not distinct or distinguishable; not separate in such a manner as
to be perceptible by itself; as, the indistinct parts of a substance.
"Indistinct as water is in water." Shak.

2. Obscure to the mind or senses; not clear; not definite; confused;
imperfect; faint; as, indistinct vision; an indistinct sound; an
indistinct idea or recollection.
When we come to parts too small four our senses, our ideas of these
little bodies become obscure and indistinct. I. Watts.
Their views, indeed, are indistinct and dim. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Undefined; indistinguishable; obscure; indefinite; vague;
ambiguous; uncertain; confused.

INDISTINCTIBLE
In`dis*tinc"ti*ble, a.

Defn: Indistinguishable. [Obs.] T. Warton.

INDISTINCTION
In`dis*tinc"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indistinction.]

Defn: Want of distinction or distinguishableness; confusion;
uncertainty; indiscrimination.
The indistinction of many of the same name . . . hath made some
doubt. Sir T. Browne.
An indistinction of all persons, or equality of all orders, is far
from being agreeable to the will of God. Sprat.

INDISTINCTIVE
In`dis*tinc"tive, a.

Defn: Having nothing distinctive; common.
 -- In`dis*tinc"tive*ness, n.

INDISTINCTLY
In`dis*tinct"ly, adv.

Defn: In an indistinct manner; not clearly; confusedly; dimly; as,
certain ideas are indistinctly comprehended.
In its sides it was bounded distinctly, but on its ends confusedly an
indistinctly. Sir I. Newton.

INDISTINCTNESS
In`dis*tinct"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being indistinct; want of
definiteness; dimness; confusion; as, the indistinctness of a
picture, or of comprehension; indistinctness of vision.

INDISTINGUISHABLE
In`dis*tin"guish*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not distinguishable; not capable of being perceived, known, or
discriminated as separate and distinct; hence, not capable of being
perceived or known; as, in the distance the flagship was
indisguishable; the two copies were indisguishable in form or color;
the difference between them was indisguishable.

INDISTINGUISHABLY
In`dis*tin"guish*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a indistinguishable manner. Sir W. Scott.

INDISTINGUISHED
In`dis*tin"guished, a.

Defn: Indistinct. [R.] "That indistinguished mass." Sir T. Browne.

INDISTINGUISHING
In`dis*tin"guish*ing, a.

Defn: Making no difference; indiscriminative; impartial; as,
indistinguishing liberalities. [Obs.] Johnson.

INDISTURBANCE
In`dis*turb"ance, n.

Defn: Freedom from disturbance; calmness; repose; apathy;
indifference.

INDITCH
In*ditch", v. t.

Defn: To bury in, or cast into, a ditch. Bp. Hall.

INDITE
In*dite", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indited; p. pr. & vb. n. Inditing.]
Etym: [OE. enditen to indite, indict, OF. enditer to indicate, show,
dictate, write, inform, and endicter to accuse; both fr. LL.
indictare to show, to accuse, fr. L. indicere to proclaim, announce;
pref. in- in + dicere to say. The word was influenced also by L.
indicare to indicate, and by dictare to dictate. See Diction, and cf.
Indict, Indicate, Dictate.]

1. To compose; to write; to be author of; to dictate; to prompt.
My heart is inditing a good matter. Ps. xlv. 1.
Could a common grief have indited such expressions South.
Hear how learned Greece her useful rules indites. Pope.

2. To invite or ask. [Obs.]
She will indite him so supper. Shak.

3. To indict; to accuse; to censure. [Obs.] Spenser.

INDITE
In*dite", v. i.

Defn: To compose; to write, as a poem.
Wounded I sing, tormented I indite. Herbert.

INDITEMENT
In*dite"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. Indictment.]

Defn: The act of inditing. Craig.

INDITER
In*dit"er, n.

Defn: One who indites. Smart.

INDIUM
In"di*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Indigo.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare metallic element, discovered in certain ores of zinc, by
means of its characteristic spectrum of two indigo blue lines; hence,
its name. In appearance it resembles zinc, being white or lead gray,
soft, malleable and easily fusible, but in its chemical relation it
resembles aluminium or gallium. Symbol In. Atomic weight, 113.4.

INDIVERTIBLE
In`di*vert"i*ble, a.

Defn: Not to be diverted or turned aside. [R.] Lamb.

INDIVIDABLE
In`di*vid"a*ble, a.

Defn: Indivisible. [R.] Shak.

INDIVIDED
In`di*vid"ed, a.

Defn: Undivided. [R.] Bp. Patrick.

INDIVIDUAL
In`di*vid"u*al, a. Etym: [L. individuus indivisible; pref. in- not +
dividuus divisible, fr. dividere to divide: cf. F. individuel. See
Divide.]

1. Not divided, or not to be divided; existing as one entity, or
distinct being or object; single; one; as, an individual man, animal,
or city.
Mind has a being of its own, distinct from that of all other things,
and is pure, unmingled, individual substance. A. Tucker.
United as one individual soul. Milton.

2. Of or pertaining to one only; peculiar to, or characteristic of, a
single person or thing; distinctive; as, individual traits of
character; individual exertions; individual peculiarities.

INDIVIDUAL
In`di*vid"u*al, n.

1. A single person, animal, or thing of any kind; a thing or being
incapable of separation or division, without losing its identity;
especially, a human being; a person. Cowper.
An object which is in the strict and primary sense one, and can not
be logically divided, is called an individual. Whately.
That individuals die, his will ordains. Dryden.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) An independent, or partially independent, zooid of a compound
animal.
(b) The product of a single egg, whether it remains a single animal
or becomes compound by budding or fission.

INDIVIDUALISM
In`di*vid"u*al*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. individualisme.]

1. The quality of being individual; individuality; personality.

2. An excessive or exclusive regard to one's personal interest; self-
interest; selfishness.
The selfishness of the small proprietor has been described by the
best writers as individualism. Ed. Rev.

INDIVIDUALISTIC
In`di*vid`u*al*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the individual or individualism. London
Athenæum.

INDIVIDUALITY
In`di*vid`u*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Individualities. Etym: [Cf. F.
individualité.]

1. The quality or state of being individual or constituting an
individual; separate or distinct existence; oneness; unity.
Arbuthnot.
They possess separate individualities. H. Spencer.

2. The character or property appropriate or peculiar to an
individual; that quality which distinguishes one person or thing from
another; the sum of characteristic traits; distinctive character; as,
he is a person of marked individuality.

INDIVIDUALIZATION
In`di*vid`u*al*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. individualization.]

Defn: The act of individualizing; the state of being individualized;
individuation.

INDIVIDUALIZE
In`di*vid"u*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Individualized; p. pr. & vb.
n. Individualizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. individualiser.]

Defn: The mark as an individual, or to distinguish from others by
peculiar properties; to invest with individuality.
The peculiarities which individualize and distinguish the humor of
Addison. N. Drake.

INDIVIDUALIZER
In`di*vid"u*al*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who individualizes.

INDIVIDUALLY
In`di*vid"u*al*ly, adv.

1. In an individual manner or relation; as individuals; separately;
each by itself. "Individually or collectively." Burke.
How should that subsist solitarily by itself which hath no substance,
but individually the very same whereby others subsist with it Hooker.

2. In an inseparable manner; inseparably; incommunicably;
indivisibly; as, individuallyhe same.
[Omniscience], an attribute individually proper to the Godhead.
Hakewill.

INDIVIDUATE
In`di*vid"u*ate, a. Etym: [See Individual.]

Defn: Undivided. [Obs.]

INDIVIDUATE
In`di*vid"u*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Individuated (p. pr. & vb. n.
Individuating.]

Defn: To distinguish from others from others of the species; to endow
with individuality; to divide into individuals; to discriminate.
The soul, as the prime individuating principle, and the said reserved
portion of matter as an essential and radical part of the
individuation, shall . . . make up and restore the same individual
person. South.
Life is individuated into infinite numbers, that have their distinct
sense and pleasure. Dr. H. More.

INDIVIDUATION
In`di*vid`u*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. individuation.]

Defn: The act of individuating or state of being individuated;
individualization. H. Spencer.

INDIVIDUATOR
In`di*vid"u*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, individuates. Sir K. Digby.

INDIVIDUITY
In`di*vi*du"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. individuitas.]

Defn: Separate existence; individuality; oneness. Fuller.

INDIVINITY
In`di*vin"i*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + divinity: cf. F.
indivinité.]

Defn: Want or absence of divine power or of divinity. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

INDIVISIBILITY
In`di*vis`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. indivisibilité.]

Defn: The state or property of being indivisible or inseparable;
inseparability. Locke.

INDIVISIBLE
In`di*vis"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. indivisibilis: cf. F. indivisible. See
In- not, and Divisible.]

1. Not divisible; incapable of being divided, separated, or broken;
not separable into parts. "One indivisible point of time." Dryden.

2. (Math.)

Defn: Not capable of exact division, as one quantity by another;
incommensurable.

INDIVISIBLE
In`di*vis"i*ble, n.

1. That which is indivisible.
By atom, nobody will imagine we intend to express a perfect
indivisible, but only the least sort of natural bodies. Digby.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: An infinitely small quantity which is assumed to admit of no
further division. Method of indivisibles, a kind of calculus,
formerly in use, in which lines were considered as made up of an
infinite number of points; surfaces, as made up of an infinite number
of lines; and volumes, as made up of an infinite number of surfaces.

INDIVISIBLENESS
In`di*vis"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being indivisible; indivisibility. W. Montagu.

INDIVISIBLY
In`di*vis"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an indivisible manner.

INDIVISION
In`di*vi"sion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + division: cf. F. indivision,
LL. indivisio.]

Defn: A state of being not divided; oneness. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

INDO-
In"do-. Etym: [From L. Indus East Indian.]

Defn: A prefix signifying Indian (i. e., East Indian); of or
pertaining of India.

INDOANILINE
In`do*an"i*line, n. Etym: [Indigo + aniline.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of artificial blue dyes, in appearance
resembling indigo, for which they are often used as substitutes.

INDO-ARYAN
In`do-Ar"yan, a.

Defn: Pert. to the Indo-Aryans, or designating, or of, the Aryan
languages of India.

INDO-ARYAN
In`do-Ar"yan, n.

Defn: A member of one of the native races of India of Aryan speech
and blood, characterized by tall stature, dolichocephaly, fair
complexion with dark hair and eyes, plentiful beard, and narrow and
prominent nose.

INDO-BRITON
In`do-*Brit"on, n. Etym: [Indo- + Briton.]

Defn: A person born in India, of mixed Indian and British blood; a
half-caste. Malcom.

INDO-CHINESE
In`do-Chi*nese", a. Etym: [Indo- + Chinese.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Indo-China (i. e., Farther India, or India
beyond the Ganges).

INDOCIBILITY
In*doc`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being indocible; indocibleness; indocility.

INDOCIBLE
In*doc"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. indocibilis. See In- not, and Docible.]

Defn: Incapable of being taught, or not easily instructed; dull in
intellect; intractable; unteachable; indocile. Bp. Hall.
 -- In*doc"i*ble*ness, n.

INDOCILE
In*doc"ile, a. Etym: [L. indocilis: cf. F. indocile. See In- not, and
Docile.]

Defn: Not teachable; indisposed to be taught, trained, or
disciplined; not easily instructed or governed; dull; intractable.

INDOCILITY
In`do*cil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. indocilitas: cf. F. indocilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being indocile; dullness of intellect;
unteachableness; intractableness.
The stiffness and indocility of the Pharisees. W. Montagu.

INDOCTRINATE
In*doc"tri*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indoctrinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Indoctrinating.] Etym: [Pref. in- in + L. doctrina doctrine: cf. F.
endoctriner.]

Defn: To instruct in the rudiments or principles of learning, or of a
branch of learning; to imbue with learning; to instruct in, or imbue
with, principles or doctrines; to teach; -- often followed by in.
A master that . . . took much delight in indoctrinating his young,
unexperienced favorite. Clarendon.

INDOCTRINATION
In*doc`tri*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act of indoctrinating, or the condition of being
indoctrinated; instruction in the rudiments and principles of any
science or system of belief; information. Sir T. Browne.

INDO-DO-CHINESE LANGUAGES
In`do-do-Chinese languages.

Defn: A family of languages, mostly of the isolating type, although
some are agglutinative, spoken in the great area extending from
northern India in the west to Formosa in the east and from Central
Asia in the north to the Malay Peninsula in the south.

INDO-ENGLISH
In`do-Eng"lish, a. Etym: [Indo- + English.]

Defn: Of or relating to the English who are born or reside in India;
Anglo-Indian.

INDO-EUROPEAN
In`do-Eu`ro*pe"an, a.

Defn: Aryan; -- applied to the languages of India and Europe which
are derived from the prehistoric Aryan language; also, pertaining to
the people or nations who speak these languages; as, the Indo-
European or Aryan family.
The common origin of the Indo-European nations. Tylor.

INDOGEN
In"do*gen, n. Etym: [Indigo + -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A complex, nitrogenous radical, C8H5NO, regarded as the
essential nucleus of indigo.

INDOGENIDE
In"do*gen*ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of the derivatives of indogen, which contain that group
as a nucleus.

INDO-GERMANIC
In`do-Ger*man"ic, a. Etym: [Indo- + Germanic.]

1. Same as Aryan, and Indo-European.

2. Pertaining to or denoting the Teutonic family of languages as
related to the Sanskrit, or derived from the ancient Aryan language.

INDOIN
In"do*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance resembling indigo blue, obtained artificially from
certain isatogen compounds.

INDOL
In"dol, n. Etym: [Indigo + -ol of phenol.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline substance, C8H7N, obtained from blue
indigo, and almost all indigo derivatives, by a process of reduction.
It is also formed from albuminous matter, together with skatol, by
putrefaction, and by fusion with caustic potash, and is present in
human excrement, as well as in the intestinal canal of some
herbivora.

INDOLENCE
In"do*lence, n. Etym: [L. indolentia freedom from pain: cf. F.
indolence.]

1. Freedom from that which pains, or harasses, as toil, care, grief,
etc. [Obs.]
I have ease, if it may not rather be called indolence. Bp. Hough.

2. The quality or condition of being indolent; inaction, or want of
exertion of body or mind, proceeding from love of ease or aversion to
toil; habitual idleness; indisposition to labor; laziness; sloth;
inactivity.
Life spent in indolence, and therefore sad. Cowper.
As there is a great truth wrapped up in "diligence," what a lie, on
the other hand, lurks at the root of our present use of the word
"indolence"! This is from "in" and "doleo," not to grieve; and
indolence is thus a state in which we have no grief or pain; so that
the word, as we now employ it, seems to affirm that indulgence in
sloth and ease is that which would constitute for us the absence of
all pain. Trench.

INDOLENCY
In"do*len*cy, n.

Defn: Indolence. [Obs.] Holland.

INDOLENT
In"do*lent, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + L. dolens, -entis, p. pr. of
dolere to feel pain: cf. F. indolent. See Dolorous.]

1. Free from toil, pain, or trouble. [Obs.]

2. Indulging in ease; avoiding labor and exertion; habitually idle;
lazy; inactive; as, an indolent man.
To waste long nights in indolent repose. Pope.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Causing little or no pain or annoyance; as, an indolent tumor.

Syn.
 -- Idle; lazy; slothful; sluggish; listless; inactive; inert. See
Idle.

INDOLENTLY
In"do*lent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an indolent manner.
Calm and serene you indolently sit. Addison.

INDOLES
In"do*les, n. Etym: [L. Cf. Adolescence.]

Defn: Natural disposition; natural quality or abilities.

INDOLIN
In"do*lin, n. Etym: [See Indol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A dark resinous substance, polymeric with indol, and obtained
by the reduction of indigo white.

INDOMABLE
In*dom"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. indomabilis; pref. in- not + domabilis
tamable.]

Defn: Indomitable. [Obs.]

INDOMITABLE
In*dom"i*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. indomitabilis; pref. in- not +
domitare, intens. fr. domare to tame. See Tame.]

Defn: Not to be subdued; untamable; invincible; as, an indomitable
will, courage, animal.

INDOMITE
In*dom"ite, a. Etym: [L. indomitus.]

Defn: Not tamed; untamed; savage; wild. [Obs.] J. Salkeld.

INDOMPTABLE
In*domp"ta*ble, a. Etym: [F. indomptable, L. indomitabilis.]

Defn: Indomitable. [Obs.] Tooke.

INDONESIAN
In`do*ne"sian, a.  [Indo- + Gr.  island.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Indonesia or Indonesians.

INDONESIAN
In`do*ne"sian, n.

Defn: A member of a race forming the chief pre-Malay population of
the Malay Archipelago, and probably sprung from a mixture of
Polynesian and Mongoloid immigrants. According to Keane, the
autochthonous Negritos were largely expelled by the Caucasian
Polynesians, themselves followed by Mongoloid peoples of Indo-Chinese
affinities, from mixture with whom sprang the Indonesian race.

The term Indonesian, introduced by Logan to designate the light-
colored non-Malay inhabitants of the Eastern Archipelago, is now used
as a convenient collective name for all the peoples of Malaysia and
Polynesia who are neither Malay nor Papuans, but of Caucasic type.  .
. . The true Indonesians are of tall stature (5 ft. 10 in.), muscular
frame, rather oval features, high, open forehead, large straight or
curved nose, large full eyes always horizontal and with no trace of
the third lid, light brown complexion (cinnamon or ruddy brown), long
black hair, not lank but often slightly curled or wavy, skull
generally brachycephalous like that of the melanochroic European.
A. H. Keane.

The Indonesians [of the Philippines], with the tribal population of
some 251, 200, live almost exclusively on the great island of
Mindanao. They are not only physically superior to the Negritos, but
to the peoples of the Malayan race as well, and are, as a rule, quite
intelligent.
Rep. Phil. Com. , 1902.

INDOOR
In"door`, a.

Defn: Done or being within doors; within a house or institution;
domestic; as, indoor work.

INDOORS
In"doors`, adv.

Defn: Within the house; -- usually separated, in doors.

INDOPHENOL
In`do*phe"nol, n. Etym: [Indigo + phenol.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of artificial blue dyestuffs, resembling
indigo in appearance, and obtained by the action of phenol on certain
nitrogenous derivatives of quinone. Simple indophenol proper has not
yet been isolated.

INDORSABLE
In*dors"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being indorsed; transferable; convertible.

INDORSATION
In`dor*sa"tion, n.

Defn: Indorsement. [Obs.]

INDORSE
In*dorse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indorsed; p. pr. & vb. n. Indorsing.]
Etym: [LL. indorsare. See Endorse.] [Written also endorse.]

1. To cover the back of; to load or burden. [Obs.]
Elephants indorsed with towers. Milton.

2. To write upon the back or outside of a paper or letter, as a
direction, heading, memorandum, or address.

3. (Law & Com.)

Defn: To write one's name, alone or with other words, upon the back
of (a paper), for the purpose of transferring it, or to secure the
payment of a

4. To give one's name or support to; to sanction; to aid by approval;
to approve; as, to indorse an opinion. To indorse in blank, to write
one's name on the back of a note or bill, leaving a blank to be
filled by the holder.

INDORSED
In*dorsed", a. (Her.)

Defn: See Addorsed.

INDORSEE
In`dor*see", n.

Defn: The person to whom a note or bill is indorsed, or assigned by
indorsement.

INDORSEMENT
In*dorse"ment, n. Etym: [From Indorse; cf. Endorsement.] [Written
also endorsement.]

1. The act of writing on the back of a note, bill, or other written
instrument.

2. That which is written on the back of a note, bill, or other paper,
as a name, an order for, or a receipt of, payment, or the return of
an officer, etc.; a writing, usually upon the back, but sometimes on
the face, of a negotiable instrument, by which the property therein
is assigned and transferred. Story. Byles. Burrill.

3. Sanction, support, or approval; as, the indorsement of a rumor, an
opinion, a course, conduct. Blank indorsement. See under Blank.

INDORSER; INDORSOR
In*dors"er, In*dors"or, n.

Defn: The person who indorses. [Written also endorser.]

INDOW
In*dow", v. t.

Defn: See Endow.

INDOWMENT
In*dow"ment, n.

Defn: See Endowment.

INDOXYL
In*dox"yl, n. Etym: [Indigo + hydroxyl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance, C8H7NO, isomeric with oxindol,
obtained as an oily liquid.

INDOXYLIC
In`dox*yl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or producing, indoxyl; as, indoxylic acid.

INDRAUGHT
In"draught`, n.

1. An opening from the sea into the land; an inlet. [Obs.] Sir W.
Raleigh.

2. A draught of air or flow of water setting inward.

INDRAWN
In"drawn`, a.

Defn: Drawn in.

INDRENCH
In*drench", v. t.

Defn: To overwhelm with water; to drench; to drown. [Obs.] Shak.

INDRIS; INDRI
In"dris, In"dri, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any lemurine animal of the genus Indris.

Note: Several species are known, all of them natives of Madagascar,
as the diadem indris (I. diadema), which has a white ruff around the
forehead; the woolly indris (I. laniger); and the short-tailed or
black indris (I. brevicaudatus), which is black, varied with gray.

INDUBIOUS
In*du"bi*ous, a. Etym: [L. indubius. See In- not, and Dubious.]

1. Not dubious or doubtful; certain.

2. Not doubting; unsuspecting. "Indubious confidence." Harvey.

INDUBITABLE
In*du"bi*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. indubitabilis: cf. F. indubitable. See
In- not, and Dubitable.]

Defn: Not dubitable or doubtful; too evident to admit of doubt;
unquestionable; evident; apparently certain; as, an indubitable
conclusion.
 -- n.

Defn: That which is indubitable.

Syn.
 -- Unquestionable; evident; incontrovertible; incontestable;
undeniable; irrefragable.

INDUBITABLENESS
In*du"bi*ta*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being indubitable.

INDUBITABLY
In*du"bi*ta*bly, adv.

Defn: Undoubtedly; unquestionably; in a manner to remove all doubt.
Oracles indubitably clear and infallibly certain. Barrow.

INDUBITATE
In*du"bi*tate, a. Etym: [L. indubitatus; pref. in- not + dubitatus,
p. p. of dubitare to doubt.]

Defn: Not questioned or doubtful; evident; certain. [Obs.] Bacon.

INDUBITATE
In*du"bi*tate, v. t. Etym: [L. indubitatus, p. p. of indubitare;
pref. in- in + dubitare to doubt.]

Defn: To bring into doubt; to cause to be doubted. [Obs.]
To conceal, or indubitate, his exigency. Sir T. Browne.

INDUCE
In*duce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Induced; p. pr. & vb. n. Inducing.]
Etym: [L. inducere, inductum; pref. in- in + ducere to lead. See
Duke, and cf. Induct.]

1. To lead in; to introduce. [Obs.]
The poet may be seen inducing his personages in the first Iliad.
Pope.

2. To draw on; to overspread. [A Latinism] Cowper.

3. To lead on; to influence; to prevail on; to incite; to move by
persuasion or influence. Shak.
He is not obliged by your offer to do it, . . . though he may be
induced, persuaded, prevailed upon, tempted. Paley.
Let not the covetous desire of growing rich induce you to ruin your
reputation. Dryden.

4. To bring on; to effect; to cause; as, a fever induced by fatigue
or exposure.
Sour things induces a contraction in the nerves. Bacon.

5. (Physics)

Defn: To produce, or cause, by proximity without contact or
transmission, as a particular electric or magnetic condition in a
body, by the approach of another body in an opposite electric or
magnetic state.

6. (Logic)

Defn: To generalize or conclude as an inference from all the
particulars; -- the opposite of deduce.

Syn.
 -- To move; instigate; urge; impel; incite; press; influence;
actuate.

INDUCED CURRENT
In*duced" cur"rent. (Elec.)

Defn: A current due to variation in the magnetic field surrounding
its conductor.

INDUCEMENT
In*duce"ment, n. Etym: [From Induce.]

1. The act of inducing, or the state of being induced.

2. That which induces; a motive or consideration that leads one to
action or induces one to act; as, reward is an inducement to toil.
"Mark the inducement." Shak.

3. (Law)

Defn: Matter stated by way of explanatory preamble or introduction to
the main allegations of a pleading; a leading to.

Syn.
 -- Motive; reason; influence. See Motive.

INDUCER
In*du"cer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, induces or incites.

INDUCIBLE
In*du"ci*ble, a.

1. Capable of being induced, caused, or made to take place.

2. Obtainable by induction; derivable; inferable.

INDUCT
In*duct", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inducted; p. pr. & vb. n. Inducting.]
Etym: [L. inductus, p. p. of inducere. See Induce.]

1. To bring in; to introduce; to usher in.
The independent orator inducting himself without further ceremony
into the pulpit. Sir W. Scott.

2. To introduce, as to a benefice or office; to put in actual
possession of the temporal rights of an ecclesiastical living, or of
any other office, with the customary forms and ceremonies.
The prior, when inducted into that dignity, took an oath not to
alienate any of their lands. Bp. Burnet.

INDUCTANCE
In*duc"tance, n. (Elec.)

Defn: Capacity for induction; the coefficient of self-induction.

 The unit of inductance is the henry.

INDUCTANCE COIL
In*duc"tance coil. (Elec.)

Defn: A choking coil.

INDUCTEOUS
In*duc"te*ous, a. (Elec.)

Defn: Rendered electro-polar by induction, or brought into the
opposite electrical state by the influence of inductive bodies.

INDUCTILE
In*duc"tile, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + ductile: cf. F. inductile.]

Defn: Not ductile; incapable of being drawn into threads, as a metal;
inelastic; tough.

INDUCTILITY
In`duc*til"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inductile.

INDUCTION
In*duc"tion, n. Etym: [L. inductio: cf. F. induction. See Induct.]

1. The act or process of inducting or bringing in; introduction;
entrance; beginning; commencement.
I know not you; nor am I well pleased to make this time, as the
affair now stands, the induction of your acquaintance. Beau. & Fl.
These promises are fair, the parties sure, And our induction dull of
prosperous hope. Shak.

2. An introduction or introductory scene, as to a play; a preface; a
prologue. [Obs.]
This is but an induction: I will dMassinger.

3. (Philos.)

Defn: The act or process of reasoning from a part to a whole, from
particulars to generals, or from the individual to the universal;
also, the result or inference so reached.
Induction is an inference drawn from all the particulars. Sir W.
Hamilton.
Induction is the process by which we conclude that what is true of
certain individuals of a class, is true of the whole class, or that
what is true at certain times will be true in similar circumstances
at all times. J. S. Mill.

4. The introduction of a clergyman into a benefice, or of an official
into a office, with appropriate acts or ceremonies; the giving actual
possession of an ecclesiastical living or its temporalities.

5. (Math.)

Defn: A process of demonstration in which a general truth is gathered
from an examination of particular cases, one of which is known to be
true, the examination being so conducted that each case is made to
depend on the preceding one; -- called also successive induction.

6. (Physics)

Defn: The property by which one body, having electrical or magnetic
polarity, causes or induces it in another body without direct
contact; an impress of electrical or magnetic force or condition from
one body on another without actual contact. Electro-dynamic
induction, the action by which a variable or interrupted current of
electricity excites another current in a neighboring conductor
forming a closed circuit.
 -- Electro-magnetic induction, the influence by which an electric
current produces magnetic polarity in certain bodies near or around
which it passes.
 -- Electro-static induction, the action by which a body possessing a
charge of statical electricity develops a charge of statical
electricity of the opposite character in a neighboring body.
 -- Induction coil, an apparatus producing induced currents of great
intensity. It consists of a coil or helix of stout insulated copper
wire, surrounded by another coil of very fine insulated wire, in
which a momentary current is induced, when a current (as from a
voltaic battery), passing through the inner coil, is made, broken, or
varied. The inner coil has within it a core of soft iron, and is
connected at its terminals with a condenser; -- called also
inductorium, and Ruhmkorff's coil.
 -- Induction pipe, port, or valve, a pipe, passageway, or valve, for
leading or admitting a fluid to a receiver, as steam to an engine
cylinder, or water to a pump.
 -- Magnetic induction, the action by which magnetic polarity is
developed in a body susceptible to magnetic effects when brought
under the influence of a magnet.
 -- Magneto-electric induction, the influence by which a magnet
excites electric currents in closed circuits. Logical induction,
(Philos.), an act or method of reasoning from all the parts
separately to the whole which they constitute, or into which they may
be united collectively; the operation of discovering and proving
general propositions; the scientific method.
 -- Philosophical induction, the inference, or the act of inferring,
that what has been observed or established in respect to a part,
individual, or species, may, on the ground of analogy, be affirmed or
received of the whole to which it belongs. This last is the inductive
method of Bacon. It ascends from the parts to the whole, and forms,
from the general analogy of nature, or special presumptions in the
case, conclusions which have greater or less degrees of force, and
which may be strengthened or weakened by subsequent experience and
experiment. It relates to actual existences, as in physical science
or the concerns of life. Logical induction is founded on the
necessary laws of thought; philosophical induction, on the
interpretation of the indications or analogy of nature.

Syn.
 -- Deduction.
 -- Induction, Deduction. In induction we observe a sufficient number
of individual facts, and, on the ground of analogy, extend what is
true of them to others of the same class, thus arriving at general
principles or laws. This is the kind of reasoning in physical
science. In deduction we begin with a general truth, which is already
proven or provisionally assumed, and seek to connect it with some
particular case by means of a middle term, or class of objects, known
to be equally connected with both. Thus, we bring down the general
into the particular, affirming of the latter the distinctive
qualities of the former. This is the syllogistic method. By induction
Franklin established the identity of lightning and electricity; by
deduction he inferred that dwellings might be protected by lightning
rods.

INDUCTIONAL
In*duc"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or proceeding by, induction; inductive.

INDUCTION GENERATOR
In*duc"tion gen"er*a`tor.

Defn: A machine built as an induction motor and driven above
synchronous speed, thus acting as an alternating-current generator; -
- called also asynchronous generator. Below synchronism the machine
takes in electrical energy and acts as an induction motor; at
synchronism the power component of current becomes zero and changes
sign, so that above synchronism the machine (driven for this purpose
by mechanical power) gives out electrical energy as a generator.

INDUCTION MOTOR
Induction motor. (Elec.)

Defn: A type of alternating-current motor comprising two wound
members, one stationary, called the stator, and the other rotating,
called the rotor, these two members corresponding to a certain extent
to the field and armature of a direct-current motor.

INDUCTIVE
In*duct"ive, a. Etym: [LL. inductivus: cf. F. inductif. See Induce.]

1. Leading or drawing; persuasive; tempting; -- usually followed by
to.
A brutish vice, Inductive mainly to the sin of Eve. Milton.

2. Tending to induce or cause. [R.]
They may be . . . inductive of credibility. Sir M. Hale.

3. Leading to inferences; proceeding by, derived from, or using,
induction; as, inductive reasoning.

4. (Physics)
(a) Operating by induction; as, an inductive electrical machine.
(b) Facilitating induction; susceptible of being acted upon by
induction; as certain substances have a great inductive capacity.
Inductive embarrassment (Physics), the retardation in signaling on an
electric wire, produced by lateral induction.
 -- Inductive philosophy or method. See Philosophical induction,
under Induction.
 -- Inductive sciences, those sciences which admit of, and employ,
the inductive method, as astronomy, botany, chemistry, etc.

INDUCTIVELY
In*duct"ive*ly, adv.

Defn: By induction or inference.

INDUCTOMETER
In`duc*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Induction + -meter.] (Elec.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring or ascertaining the degree or rate
of electrical induction.

INDUCTOR
In*duct"or, n. Etym: [L., one who stirs up or rouses. See Induce.]

1. The person who inducts another into an office or benefice.

2. (Elec.)

Defn: That portion of an electrical apparatus, in which is the
inducing charge or current.

INDUCTORIUM
In`duc*to"ri*um, n.; pl. E. Inductoriums, L. Inductoria. Etym: [NL.,
fr. E. induction.] (Elec.)

Defn: An induction coil.

INDUCTRIC; INDUCTRICAL
In*duc"tric, In*duc"tric*al, a. (Elec.)

Defn: Acting by, or in a state of, induction; relating to electrical
induction.

INDUE
In*due", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indued; p. pr. & vb. n. Induing.]
[Written also endue.] Etym: [L. induere to put on, clothe, fr. OL.
indu (fr. in- in) + a root seen also in L. exuere to put off, divest,
exuviae the skin of an animal, slough, induviae clothes. Cf. Endue to
invest.]

1. To put on, as clothes; to draw on.
The baron had indued a pair of jack boots. Sir W. Scott.

2. To clothe; to invest; hence, to endow; to furnish; to supply with
moral or mental qualities.
Indu'd with robes of various hue she flies. Dryden.
Indued with intellectual sense and souls. Shak.

INDUEMENT
In*due"ment, n. Etym: [From Indue; cf. Indument, Enduement.]

Defn: The act of induing, or state of being indued; investment;
endowment. W. Montagu.

INDULGE
In*dulge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indulged; p. pr. & vb. n. Indulging.]
Etym: [L. indulgere to be kind or tender to one; cf. OIr. dilgud,
equiv. to L. remissio, OIr. dligeth, equiv. to L. lex, Goth. dulgs
debt.]

1. To be complacent toward; to give way to; not to oppose or
restrain; (a) when said of a habit, desire, etc.: to give free course
to; to give one's self up to; as, to indulge sloth, pride,
selfishness, or inclinations; (b) when said of a person: to yield to
the desire of; to gratify by compliance; to humor; to withhold
restraint from; as, to indulge children in their caprices or
willfulness; to indulge one's self with a rest or in pleasure.
Hope in another life implies that we indulge ourselves in the
gratifications of this very sparingly. Atterbury.

2. To grant as by favor; to bestow in concession, or in compliance
with a wish or request.
Persuading us that something must be indulged to public manners. Jer.
Taylor.
Yet, yet a moment, one dim ray of light Indulge, dread Chaos, and
eternal Night! Pope.

Note: It is remarked by Johnson, that if the matter of indulgence is
a single thing, it has with before it; if it is a habit, it has in;
as, he indulged himself with a glass of wine or a new book; he
indulges himself in idleness or intemperance. See Gratify.

INDULGE
In*dulge", v. i.

Defn: To indulge one's self; to gratify one's tastes or desires;
esp., to give one's self up (to); to practice a forbidden or
questionable act without restraint; -- followed by in, but formerly,
also, by to. "Willing to indulge in easy vices." Johnson.

INDULGEMENT
In*dulge"ment, n.

Defn: Indulgence. [R.] Wood.

INDULGENCE
In*dul"gence, n. Etym: [L. indulgentia: cf. F. indulgence.]

1. The act of indulging or humoring; the quality of being indulgent;
forbearance of restrain or control.
If I were a judge, that word indulgence should never issue from my
lips. Tooke.
They err, that through indulgence to others, or fondness to any sin
in themselves, substitute for repentance anything less. Hammond.

2. An indulgent act; favor granted; gratification.
If all these gracious indulgences are without any effect on us, we
must perish in our own folly. Rogers.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: Remission of the temporal punishment due to sins, after the
guilt of sin has been remitted by sincere repentance; absolution from
the censures and public penances of the church. It is a payment of
the debt of justice to God by the application of the merits of Christ
and his saints to the contrite soul through the church. It is
therefore believed to diminish or destroy for sins the punishment of
purgatory.

INDULGENCE
In*dul"gence, v. t.

Defn: To grant an indulgence to.

INDULGENCY
In*dul"gen*cy, n.

Defn: Indulgence. Dryden.

INDULGENT
In*dul"gent, a. Etym: [L. indulgens, -entis, p. pr. of indulgere: cf.
F. indulgent. See Indulge.]

Defn: Prone to indulge; yielding to the wishes, humor, or appetites
of those under one's care; compliant; not opposing or restraining;
tolerant; mild; favorable; not severe; as, an indulgent parent. Shak.
The indulgent censure of posterity. Waller.
The feeble old, indulgent of their ease. Dryden.

INDULGENTIAL
In`dul*gen"tial, a.

Defn: Relating to the indulgences of the Roman Catholic Church.
Brevint.

INDULGENTLY
In*dul"gent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an indulgent manner; mildly; favorably. Dryden.

INDULGER
In*dul"ger, n.

Defn: One who indulges. W. Montagu.

INDULGIATE
In*dul"gi*ate, v. t.

Defn: To indulge. [R.] Sandys.

INDULINE
In"du*line, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. indigo.] (Chem.)
(a) Any one of a large series of aniline dyes, colored blue or
violet, and represented by aniline violet.
(b) A dark green amorphous dyestuff, produced by the oxidation of
aniline in the presence of copper or vanadium salts; -- called also
aniline black.

INDULT; INDULTO
In*dult", In*dul"to, n. Etym: [L. indultum indulgence, favor, fr.
indultus, p. p. of indulgere: cf. It. indulto, F. indult. See
Indulge.]

1. A privilege or exemption; an indulgence; a dispensation granted by
the pope.

2. (Spain)

Defn: A duty levied on all importations.

INDUMENT
In"du*ment, n. Etym: [L. indumentum a covering. See Indue, and cf.
Induement.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Plumage; feathers.

INDUPLICATE
In*du"pli*cate, a. (Bot.)
(a) Having the edges bent abruptly toward the axis; -- said of the
parts of the calyx or corolla in æstivation.
(b) Having the edges rolled inward and then arranged about the axis
without overlapping; -- said of leaves in vernation.

INDUPLICATIVE
In*du"pli*ca*tive, a. (Bot.)
(a) Having induplicate sepals or petals in æstivation.
(b) Having induplicate leaves in vernation.

INDURANCE
In*dur"ance, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Endurance.

INDURATE
In"du*rate, a. Etym: [L. induratus, p. p. of indurare to harden. See
Endure.]

1. Hardened; not soft; indurated. Tyndale.

2. Without sensibility; unfeeling; obdurate.

INDURATE
In"du*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indurated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Indurating.]

1. To make hard; as, extreme heat indurates clay; some fossils are
indurated by exposure to the air.

2. To make unfeeling; to deprive of sensibility; to render obdurate.

INDURATE
In"du*rate, v. i.

Defn: To grow hard; to harden, or become hard; as, clay indurates by
drying, and by heat.

INDURATED
In"du*ra`ted, a.

Defn: Hardened; as, indurated clay; an indurated heart. Goldsmith.

INDURATION
In`du*ra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. induration, L. induratio hardness of
heart.]

1. The act of hardening, or the process of growing hard.

2. State of being indurated, or of having become hard.

3. Hardness of character, manner, sensibility, etc.; obduracy;
stiffness; want of pliancy or feeling.
A certain induration of character had arisen from long habits of
business. Coleridge.

INDUSIAL
In*du"sial, a. Etym: [See Indusium.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, the petrified cases of the
larvæ of certain insects. Indusial limestone (Geol.), a fresh-water
limestone, largely composed of the agglomerated cases of caddice
worms, or larvæ of caddice flies (Phryganea). It is found in Miocene
strata of Auvergne, France, and some other localities.

INDUSIATE; INDUSIATED
In*du"si*ate, In*du"si*a`ted, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Furnished with an indusium.

INDUSIUM
In*du"si*um, n.; pl. Indu. Etym: [L., an under garment, fr. induere
to put on: cf. F. indusie the covering of the seed spots of ferns.]
(Bot.)
(a) A collection of hairs united so as to form a sort of cup, and
inclosing the stigma of a flower.
(b) The immediate covering of the fruit dots or sori in many ferns,
usually a very thin scale attached by the middle or side to a
veinlet.
(c) A peculiar covering found in certain fungi.

INDUSTRIAL
In*dus"tri*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. industriel, LL. industrialis. See
Industry.]

Defn: Consisting in industry; pertaining to industry, or the arts and
products of industry; concerning those employed in labor, especially
in manual labor, and their wages, duties, and rights.
The great ideas of industrial development and economic social
amelioration. M. Arnold.

Industrial exhibition, a public exhibition of the various industrial
products of a country, or of various countries.
 -- Industrial school, a school for teaching one or more branches of
industry; also, a school for educating neglected children, and
training them to habits of industry.

INDUSTRIALISM
In*dus"tri*al*ism, n.

1. Devotion to industrial pursuits; labor; industry. J. S. Mill.

2. The principles or policy applicable to industrial pursuits or
organized labor.
Industrialism must not confounded with industriousness. H. Spencer.

INDUSTRIALLY
In*dus"tri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: With reference to industry.

INDUSTRIOUS
In*dus"tri*ous, a. Etym: [L. industrius, industriosus: cf. F.
industrieux. See Industry.]

1. Given to industry; characterized by diligence; constantly,
regularly, or habitually occupied; busy; assiduous; not slothful or
idle; -- commonly implying devotion to lawful and useful labor.
Frugal and industrious men are commonly friendly to the established
government. Sir W. Temple.

2. Steadily and perseveringly active in a particular pursuit or aim;
as, he was negligent in business, but industrious in pleasure; an
industrious mischief maker.
Industrious to seek out the truth of all things. Spenser.
-- In*dus"tri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- In*dus"tri*ous*ness, n.

INDUSTRY
In"dus*try, n.; pl. Industries. Etym: [L. industria, cf. industrius
diligent; of uncertain origin: cf. F. industrie.]

1. Habitual diligence in any employment or pursuit, either bodily or
mental; steady attention to business; assiduity; -- opposed to sloth
and idleness; as, industry pays debts, while idleness or despair will
increase them.
We are more industrious than our forefathers, because in the present
times the funds destined for the maintenance of industry are much
greater in proportion to those which are likely to be employed in the
maintenance of idleness, than they were two or three centuries ago.
A. Smith.

2. Any department or branch of art, occupation, or business;
especially, one which employs much labor and capital and is a
distinct branch of trade; as, the sugar industry; the iron industry;
the cotton industry.

3. (Polit. Econ.)

Defn: Human exertion of any kind employed for the creation of value,
and regarded by some as a species of capital or wealth; labor.

Syn.
 -- Diligence; assiduity; perseverance; activity; laboriousness;
attention. See Diligence.

INDUTIVE
In*du"tive, a. Etym: [L. indutus, p. p. of induere to put on. See
Indue.] (Bot.)

Defn: Covered; -- applied to seeds which have the usual integumentary
covering.

INDUVIAE
In*du"vi*æ, n. pl. Etym: [L., clothes, fr. induere to put on. See
Indue.] (Bot.)

Defn: Persistent portions of a calyx or corolla; also, leaves which
do not disarticulate from the stem, and hence remain for a long time.

INDUVIATE
In*du"vi*ate, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Covered with induviæ, as the upper part of the trunk of a palm
tree.

INDWELL
In"dwell`, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Indwelt; p. pr. & vb. n.
Indwelling.]

Defn: To dwell in; to abide within; to remain in possession.
The Holy Ghost became a dove, not as a symbol, but as a constantly
indwelt form. Milman.

INDWELLER
In"dwell`er n.

Defn: An inhabitant. Spenser.

INDWELLING
In"dwell`ing, n.

Defn: Residence within, as in the heart.
The personal indwelling of the Spirit in believers. South.

-INE
-ine (; 104).

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A suffix, indicating that those substances of whose names it is
a part are basic, and alkaloidal in their nature.

Note: All organic bases, and basic substances (especially nitrogenous
substances), are systematically written with the termination -ine;
as, quinine, morphine, guanidine, etc. All indifferent and neutral
substances, as proteids, glycerides, glucosides, etc., should
commonly be spelled with -in; as, gelatin, amygdalin, etc. This rue
has no application to those numerous commercial or popular names with
the termination -ine; as, gasoline, vaseline, etc.

2. (Organ. Chem.)

Defn: A suffix, used to indicate hydrocarbons of the second degree of
unsaturation; i. e., members of the acetyline series; as, hexine,
heptine, etc.

INEARTH
In*earth", v. t.

Defn: To inter. [R.] Southey.

INEBRIANT
In*e"bri*ant, a. Etym: [L. inebrians, p. pr. of inebriare. See
Inebriate.]

Defn: Intoxicating.

INEBRIANT
In*e"bri*ant, n.

Defn: Anything that intoxicates, as opium, alcohol, etc.; an
intoxicant. Smart.

INEBRIATE
In*e"bri*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inebriated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inebriating.] Etym: [L. inebriatus, p. p. of inebriare; pref. in- in
+ ebriare to make drunk, fr. ebrius drunk. See Ebriety.]

1. To make drunk; to intoxicate.
The cups That cheer but not inebriate. Cowper.

2. Fig.: To disorder the senses of; to exhilarate or elate as if by
spirituous drink; to deprive of sense and judgment; also, to stupefy.
The inebriating effect of popular applause. Macaulay.

INEBRIATE
In*e"bri*ate, v. i.

Defn: To become drunk. [Obs.] Bacon.

INEBRIATE
In*e"bri*ate, a. Etym: [L. inebriatus, p. p.]

Defn: Intoxicated; drunk; habitually given to drink; stupefied.
Thus spake Peter, as a man inebriate and made drunken with the
sweetness of this vision, not knowing what he said. Udall.

INEBRIATE
In*e"bri*ate, n.

Defn: One who is drunk or intoxicated; esp., an habitual drunkard;
as, an asylum fro inebriates.
Some inebriates have their paroxysms of inebriety. E. Darwin.

INEBRIATION
In*e`bri*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. inebriatio.]

Defn: The condition of being inebriated; intoxication; figuratively,
deprivation of sense and judgment by anything that exhilarates, as
success. Sir T. Browne.
Preserve him from the inebriation of prosperity. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- See Drunkenness.

INEBRIETY
In`e*bri"e*ty, n. Etym: [See Inebriate, Ebriety.]

Defn: Drunkenness; inebriation. E. Darwin.

INEBRIOUS
In*e"bri*ous, a.

Defn: Intoxicated, or partially so; intoxicating. [R.] T. Brown.

INEDIBLE
In*ed"i*ble, a. [LL. inedibilis. See In- not, and Edible.]

Defn: Not edible; not fit for food. -- In*ed`i*bil"i*ty (#), n.

INEDITED
In*ed"it*ed, a.

Defn: Not edited; unpublished; as, an inedited manuscript. T. Warton.

INEE
I`née", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An arrow poison, made from an apocynaceous plant (Strophanthus
hispidus) of the Gaboon country; -- called also onaye.

INEFFABILITY
In*ef`fa*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. ineffabilitas: cf. F. ineffabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being ineffable; ineffableness;
unspeakableness.

INEFFABLE
In*ef"fa*ble, a. Etym: [L. ineffabilis: cf. F. ineffable. See In-
not, and Effable, Fame.]

Defn: Incapable of being expresses in words; unspeakable;
unutterable; indescribable; as, the ineffable joys of heaven.
Contentment with our lot . . . will diffuse ineffable contenBeattie.

INEFFABLENESS
In*ef"fa*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being ineffable or unutterable;
unspeakableness.

INEFFABLY
In*ef"fa*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner not to be expressed in words; unspeakably. Milton.

INEFFACEABLE
In`ef*face"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + effaceable: cf. F.
ineffa.]

Defn: Incapable of being effaced; indelible; ineradicable.

INEFFACEABLY
In`ef*face"a*bly, adv.

Defn: So as not to be effaceable.

INEFFECTIBLE
In`ef*fect"i*ble, a.

Defn: Ineffectual; impracticable. [R.] Bp. Hall.

INEFFECTIVE
In`ef*fect"ive, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + effective: cf. F.
ineffectif.]

Defn: Not effective; ineffectual; futile; inefficient; useless; as,
an ineffective appeal.
The word of God, without the spirit, [is] a dead and ineffective
letter. Jer. Taylor.

INEFFECTIVELY
In`ef*fect"ive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ineffective manner; without effect; inefficiently;
ineffectually.

INEFFECTIVENESS
In`ef*fect"ive*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being ineffective.

INEFFECTUAL
In`ef*fec"tu*al, a.

Defn: Not producing the proper effect; without effect; inefficient;
weak; useless; futile; unavailing; as, an ineffectual attempt; an
ineffectual expedient. Pope.
The peony root has been much commended, . . . and yet has been by
many found ineffectual. Boyle.

Syn.
 -- Inefficient; useless; inefficacious; vain; fruitless; unavailing;
futile. See Uselesss, Inefficacious.

INEFFECTUALITY
In`ef*fec`tu*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: Ineffectualness. [R.]

INEFFECTUALLY
In`ef*fec"tu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Without effect; in vain.
Hereford . . . had been besieged for abouineffectually by the Scots.
Ludlow.

INEFFECTUALNESS
In`ef*fec"tu*al*ness, n.

Defn: Want of effect, or of power to produce it; inefficacy.
The ineffectualness of some men's devotion. Wake.

INEFFERVESCENCE
In*ef`fer*ves"cence, n.

Defn: Want of effervescence. Kirwan.

INEFFERVESCENT
In*ef`fer*ves"cent, a.

Defn: Not effervescing, or not susceptible of effervescence;
quiescent.

INEFFERVESCIBILITY
In*ef`fer*ves`ci*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being ineffervescible.

INEFFERVESCIBLE
In*ef`fer*ves"ci*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable or susceptible of effervescence.

INEFFICACIOUS
In*ef`fi*ca"cious, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + efficacious: cf. F.
inefficace, L. inefficax.]

Defn: Not efficacious; not having power to produce the effect
desired; inadequate; incompetent; inefficient; impotent. Boyle.
The authority of Parliament must become inefficacious . . . to
restrain the growth of disorders. Burke.

Note: Ineffectual, says Johnson, rather denotes an actual failure,
and inefficacious and habitual impotence to any effect. But the
distinction is not always observed, nor can it be; for we can not
always know whether means are inefficacious till experiment has
proved them ineffectual. Inefficacious is therefore sometimes
synonymous with ineffectual.

INEFFICACIOUSLY
In*ef`fi*ca"cious*ly, adv.

Defn: without efficacy or effect.

INEFFICACIOUSNESS
In*ef`fi*ca"cious*ness, n.

Defn: Want of effect, or of power to produce the effect; inefficacy.

INEFFICACY
In*ef"fi*ca*cy, n. Etym: [L. inefficacia. See In- not, and Efficacy.]

Defn: Want of power to produce the desired or proper effect;
inefficiency; ineffectualness; futility; uselessness; fruitlessness;
as, the inefficacy of medicines or means.
The seeming inefficacy of censures. Bp. Hall.
The inefficacy was soon proved, like that of many similar medicines.
James Gregory.

INEFFICIENCY
In`ef*fi"cien*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being inefficient; want of power or energy
sufficient; want of power or energy sufficient for the desired
effect; inefficacy; incapacity; as, he was discharged from his
position for inefficiency.

INEFFICIENT
In`ef*fi"cient, a.

1. Not efficient; not producing the effect intended or desired;
inefficacious; as, inefficient means or measures.

2. Incapable of, or indisposed to, effective action; habitually slack
or remiss; effecting little or nothing; as, inefficient workmen; an
inefficient administrator.

INEFFICIENTLY
In`ef*fi"cient*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inefficient manner.

INELABORATE
In`e*lab"o*rate, a. Etym: [L. inelaboratus. See In- not, and
Elaborate.]

Defn: Not elaborate; not wrought with care; unpolished; crude;
unfinished.

INELASTIC
In`e*las"tic, a.

Defn: Not elastic.

INELASTICITY
In`e*las*tic"i*ty, n.

Defn: Want of elasticity.

INELEGANCE; INELEGANCY
In*el"e*gance, In*el"e*gan*cy, n.; pl. Inelegances, Inelegancies.
Etym: [L. inelegantia: cf. F. inélégance.]

1. The quality of being inelegant; want of elegance or grace; want of
refinement, beauty, or polish in language, composition, or manners.
The notorious inelegance of her figure. T. Hook.

2. Anything inelegant; as, inelegance of style in literary
composition.

INELEGANT
In*el"e*gant, a. Etym: [L. inelegans: cf. F. inélégant. See In- not,
and Elegant.]

Defn: Not elegant; deficient in beauty, polish, refinement, grave, or
ornament; wanting in anything which correct taste requires.
What order so contrived as not to mix Tastes, not well joined,
inelegant. Milton.
It renders style often obscure, always embarrassed and inelegant.
Blair.

INELEGANTLY
In*el"e*gant*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inelegant manner.

INELIGIBILITY
In*el`i*gi*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inéligibilité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being ineligible.

INELIGIBLE
In*el"i*gi*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + eligible: cf. F.
inéligible.]

Defn: Not eligible; not qualified to be chos Burke.

INELLIGIBLY
In*el"li*gi*bly, adv.

Defn: In an ineligible manner.

INELOQUENT
In*e"lo*quent, a. Etym: [L. ineloquens: cf. F. inéloquent. See In-
not, and Eloquent.]

Defn: Not eloquent; not fluent, graceful, or pathetic; not
persuasive; as, ineloquent language.
Nor are thy lips ungraceful, sire of men, Nor tongue ineloquent.
Milton.

INELOQUENTLY
In*e"lo*quent*ly, adv.

Defn: Without eloquence.

INELUCTABLE
In`e*luc"ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. ineluctabilis; pref. in- not +
eluctabilis to be surmounted, fr. eluctari to struggle out of, to
surmount: cf. F. inéluctable. See Eluctate.]

Defn: Not to be overcome by struggling; irresistible; inevitable. Bp.
Pearson.
The ineluctable conditions of matter. Hamerton.

INELUDIBLE
In`e*lud"i*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being eluded or evaded; unvoidable.
Most pressing reasons and ineludible demonstrations. Glanvill.

INEMBRYONATE
In*em"bry*o*nate, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Not embryonate.

INENARRABLE
In`e*nar"ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. inenarrabilis; pref. in- not +
enarrabilis that may be related; fr. enarrare to relate: cf. F.
inénarrable. See Enarration.]

Defn: Incapable of being narrated; indescribable; ineffable. [Obs.]
"Inenarrable goodness." Bp. Fisher.

INEPT
In*ept", a. Etym: [L. ineptus; prefix. in- not + aptus apt, fit: cf.
F. inepte. Cf. Inapt.]

1. Not apt or fit; unfit; unsuitable; improper; unbecoming.
The Aristotelian philosophy is inept for new discoveries. Glanvill.

2. Silly; useless; nonsensical; absurd; foolish.
To view attention as a special act of intelligence, and to
distinguish it from consciousness, is utterly inept. Sir W. Hamilton.

INEPTITUDE
In*ept"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. ineptitudo.]

1. The quality of being inept; unfitness; inaptitude; unsuitableness.
That ineptitude for society, which is frequently the fault of us
scholars. Tatler.

2. Absurdity; nonsense; foolishness.

INEPTLY
In*ept"ly, adv.

Defn: Unfitly; unsuitably; awkwardly.
None of them are made foolishly or ineptly. Dr. H. More.

INEPTNESS
In*ept"ness, n.

Defn: Unfitness; ineptitude.
The feebleness and miserable ineptness of infancy. Dr. H. More.

INEQUABLE
In*e"qua*ble, a.

Defn: Unequable. [R.] Bailey.

INEQUAL
In*e"qual, a. Etym: [L. inaequalis. See In- not, and Equal.]

Defn: Unequal; uneven; various. [Obs.] Chaucer.

INEQUALITY
In`e*qual"i*ty, n.; pl. Inequalities. Etym: [L. inaequalitas.]

1. The quality of being unequal; difference, or want of equality, in
any respect; lack of uniformity; disproportion; unevenness;
disparity; diversity; as, an inequality in size, stature, numbers,
power, distances, motions, rank, property, etc.
There is so great an inequality in the length of our legs and arms as
makes it impossible for us to walk on all four. Ray.
Notwithstanding which inequality of number, it was resolved in a
council of war to fight the Dutch fleet. Ludlow.
Sympathy is rarely strong where there is a great inequality of
condition. Macaulay.

2. Unevenness; want of levelness; the alternate rising and falling of
a surface; as, the inequalities of the surface of the earth, or of a
marble slab, etc.
The country is cut into so many hills and inequalities as renders it
defensible. Addison.

3. Variableness; changeableness; inconstancy; lack of smoothness or
equability; deviation; unsteadiness, as of the weather, feelings,
etc.
Inequality of air is ever an enemy to health. Bacon.

4. Disproportion to any office or purpose; inadequacy; competency;
as, the inequality of terrestrial things to the wants of a rational
soul. South.

5. (Alg.)

Defn: An expression consisting of two unequal quantities, with the
sign of inequality (> or <) between them; as, the inequality 2 < 3,
or 4 > 1.

6. (Astron.)

Defn: An irregularity, or a deviation, in the motion of a planet or
satellite from its uniform mean motion; the amount of such deviation.

INEQUATION
In`e*qua"tion, n. (Math.)

Defn: An inequality.

INEQUIDISTANT
In*e`qui*dis"tant, a.

Defn: Not equally distant; not equidistant.

INEQUILATERAL
In*e`qui*lat"er*al, a.

1. Having unequal sides; unsymmetrical; unequal-sided.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the two ends unequal, as in the clam, quahaug, and most
lamellibranch shells.

INEQUILOBATE
In*e`qui*lo"bate, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + equi- + lobate.] (Biol.)

Defn: Unequally lobed; cut into lobes of different shapes or sizes.

INEQUITABLE
In*eq"ui*ta*ble, a.

Defn: Not equitable; not just. Burke.

INEQUITATE
In*eq"ui*tate, v. t. Etym: [L. inequitatus, p. p. inequitare to ride
over. See 1st In-, and Equitant.]

Defn: To ride over or through. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

INEQUITY
In*eq"ui*ty, n.

Defn: Want of equity; injustice; wrong. "Some form of inequity." H.
Spencer.

INEQUIVALVE; INEQUIVALVULAR
In*e"qui*valve, In*e`qui*val"vu*lar, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having unequal valves, as the shell of an oyster.

INERADICABLE
In`e*rad"i*ca*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being
The bad seed thus sown was ineradicable. Ld. Lytton.

INERADICABLY
In`e*rad"i*ca*bly, adv.

Defn: So as not to be eradicable.

INERGETIC; INERGETICAL
In`er*get"ic, In`er*get"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + energetic, -
ical.]

Defn: Having no energy; sluggish. [R.] Boyle.

INERGETICALLY
In`er*get"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Without energy. [R.]

INERM; INERMOUS
In*erm", In*er"mous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Inermis.

INERMIS
In*er"mis, a. Etym: [L. inermis, inermus; pref. in- not + arma arms:
cf. F. inerme.] (Bot.)

Defn: Unarmed; destitute of prickles or thorns, as a leaf. Gray.

INERRABILITY
In*er`ra*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Freedom or exemption from error; infallibility. Eikon Basilike.

INERRABLE
In*er"ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. inerrabilis. See In- not, and Err.]

Defn: Incapable of erring; infallible; unerring. "Inerabble and
requisite conditions." Sir T. Browne. "Not an inerrable text."
Gladstone.

INERRABLENESS
In*er"ra*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Exemption from error; inerrability; infallibility. Hammond.

INERRABLY
In*er"ra*bly, adv.

Defn: With security from error; infallibly; unerringly.

INERRANCY
In*er"ran*cy, n.

Defn: Exemption from error.
The absolute inerrancy odf the Bible. The Century.

INERRATIC
In`er*rat"ic, a.

Defn: Not erratic or wandering; fixed; settled; established.

INERRINGLY
In*err"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: Without error, mistake, or deviation; unerringly. Glanvill.

INERT
In*ert", a. Etym: [L. iners, inertis, unskilled, idle; pref. in- +
ars art: cf. F. inerte. See Art.]

1. Destitute of the power of moving itself, or of active resistance
to motion; as, matter is inert.

2. Indisposed to move or act; very slow to act; sluggish; dull;
inactive; indolent; lifeless.
The inert and desponding party of the court. Macaulay.
It present becomes extravagant, then imbecile, and at length utterly
inert. I. Taylor.

3. Not having or manifesting active properties; not affecting other
substances when brought in contact with them; powerless for an
expected or desired effect.

Syn.
 -- Inactive; dull; passive; indolent; sluggish; slothful; lazy;
lifeless; irresolute; stupid; senseless; insensible.
 -- Inert, Inactive, Sluggish. A man may be inactive from mere want
of stimulus to effort; but one who is inert has something in his
constitution or his habits which operates like a weight holding him
back from exertion. Sluggish is still stronger, implying some defect
of temperament which directly impedes action. Inert and inactive are
negative, sluggish is positive.
Even the favored isles . . . Can boast but little virtue; and, inert
Through plenty, lose in morals what they gain In manners -- victims
of luxurious ease. Cowper.
Doomed to lose four months in inactive obscurity. Johnson.
Sluggish Idleness, the nurse of sin, Upon a slothful ass he chose to
ride. Spenser.

INERTIA
In*er"ti*a, n. Etym: [L., idleness, fr. iners idle. See Inert.]

1. (Physics)

Defn: That property of matter by which it tends when at rest to
remain so, and when in motion to continue in motion, and in the same
straight line or direction, unless acted on by some external force; -
- sometimes called vis inertiæ.

2. Inertness; indisposition to motion, exertion, or action; want of
energy; sluggishness.
Men . . . have immense irresolution and inertia. Carlyle.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Want of activity; sluggishness; -- said especially of the
uterus, when, in labor, its contractions have nearly or wholly
ceased. Center of inertia. (Mech.) See under Center.

INERTION
In*er"tion, n.

Defn: Want of activity or exertion; inertness; quietude. [R.]
These vicissitudes of exertion and inertion of the arterial system
constitute the paroxysms of remittent fever. E. Darwin.

INERTITUDE
In*ert"i*tude, n. Etym: [See Inert.]

Defn: Inertness; inertia. [R.] Good.

INERTLY
In*ert"ly, adv.

Defn: Without activity; sluggishly. Pope.

INERTNESS
In*ert"ness, n.

1. Want of activity or exertion; habitual indisposition to action or
motion; sluggishness; apathy; insensibility. Glanvill.
Laziness and inertness of mind. Burke.

2. Absence of the power of self-motion; inertia.

INERUDITE
In*er"u*dite, a. Etym: [L. ineruditus. See In- not, and Erudite.]

Defn: Not erudite; unlearned; ignorant.

INESCAPABLE
In`es*cap"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not escapable.

INESCATE
In*es"cate, v. t. Etym: [L. inescatus, p. p. of inescare; in- in +
esca bait.]

Defn: To allure; to lay a bait for. [Obs.]
To inescate and beguile young women! Burton.

INESCATION
In`es*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. inescatio.]

Defn: The act of baiting; allurement. [Obs.] Hallywell.

INESCUTCHEON
In`es*cutch"eon, n. (Her.)

Defn: A small escutcheon borne within a shield.

IN ESSE
In` es"se. Etym: [L.]

Defn: In being; actually existing; -- distinguished from in posse, or
in potentia, which denote that a thing is not, but may be.

INESSENTIAL
In`es*sen"tial, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + essential: cf. F.
inessentiel.]

1. Having no essence or being. H. Brooke.
The womb of inessential Naught. Shelley.

2. Not essential; unessential.

INESTIMABLE
In*es"ti*ma*ble, a. Etym: [L. inaestimabilis: cf. F. inestimable. See
In- not, and Estimate.]

Defn: Incapable of being estimated or computed; especially, too
valuable or excellent to be measured or fully appreciated; above all
price; as, inestimable rights or privileges.
But above all, for thine inestimable love. Bk. of Com. Prayer.
Science is too inestimable for expression by a money standard. Lyon
Playfair.

Syn.
 -- Incalculable; invaluable; priceless.

INESTIMABLY
In*es"ti*ma*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner, or to a degree, above estimation; as, things
inestimably excellent.

INEVASIBLE
In`e*va"si*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being

INEVIDENCE
In*ev"i*dence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inévidence.]

Defn: Want of evidence; obscurity. [Obs.] Barrow.

INEVIDENT
In*ev"i*dent, a. Etym: [Cf. F. inévident.]

Defn: Not evident; not clear or obvious; obscure.

INEVITABILITY
In*ev`i*ta*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inévitabilité.]

Defn: Impossibility to be avoided or shunned; inevitableness.
Shelford.

INEVITABLE
In*ev"i*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. inevitabilis: cf. F. inévitable. See In-
not, and Evitable.]

1. Not evitable; incapable of being shunned; unavoidable; certain.
"The inevitable hour." Gray.
It was inevitable; it was necessary; it was planted in the nature of
things. Burke.

2. Irresistible. "Inevitable charms." Dryden.

INEVITABLENESS
In*ev"i*ta*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being unavoidable; certainty to happen. Prideaux.

INEVITABLY
In*ev"i*ta*bly, adv.

Defn: Without possibility of escape or evasion; unavoidably;
certainly.
Inevitably thou shalt die. Milton.
How inevitably does immoderate laughter end in a sigh! South.

INEXACT
In`ex*act", a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + exact: cf. F. inexact.]

Defn: Not exact; not precisely correct or true; inaccurate.

INEXACTITUDE
In`ex*act"i*tude, n.

Defn: Inexactness; uncertainty; as, geographical inexactitude.

INEXACTLY
In`ex*act"ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner not exact or precise; inaccurately. R. A. Proctor.

INEXACTNESS
In`ex*act"ness, n.

Defn: Incorrectness; want of exactness.

INEXCITABILITY
In`ex*cit`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being inexcitable; insusceptibility to
excitement.

INEXCITABLE
In`ex*cit"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. inexcitabilis from which one cannot be
aroused. See In- not, and Excite.]

Defn: Not susceptible of excitement; dull; lifeless; torpid.

INEXCUSABLE
In`ex*cus"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. inexcusabilis: cf. F. inexcusable. See
Excuse.]

Defn: Not excusable; not admitting excuse or justification; as,
inexcusable folly.
Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that
judgest; for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself;
for thou that judgest doest the same things. Rom. ii. 1.

INEXCUSABLENESS
In`ex*cus"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being inexcusable; enormity forgiveness. South.

INEXCUSABLY
In`ex*cus"a*bly, adv.

Defn: With a degree of guilt or folly beyond excuse or justification.
Inexcusably obstinate and perverse. Jortin.

INEXECRABLE
In*ex"e*cra*ble, a.

Defn: That can not be execrated enough. [R.]

INEXECUTABLE
In*ex"e*cu`ta*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + executable: cf. F.
inexécutable.]

Defn: Incapable of being executed or performed; impracticable;
infeasible.

INEXECUTION
In*ex`e*cu"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + execution: cf. F.
inexécution.]

Defn: Neglect of execution; nonperformance; as, the inexecution of a
treaty. Spence.

INEXERTION
In`ex*er"tion, n.

Defn: Want of exertion; want of effort; defect of action; indolence;
laziness.

INEXHALABLE
In`ex*hal"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being exhaled. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

INEXHAUSTED
In`ex*haust"ed, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + exhausted: cf. F.
inexhaustus.]

Defn: Not exhausted; not emptied; not spent; not having lost all
strength or resources; unexhausted. Dryden.

INEXHAUSTEDLY
In`ex*haust"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Without exhaustion.

INEXHAUSTIBILITY
In`ex*haust`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being inexhaustible; abundance.

INEXHAUSTIBLE
In`ex*haust"i*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being exhausted, emptied, or used up; unfailing;
not to be wasted or spent; as, inexhaustible stores of provisions; an
inexhaustible stock of elegant words. Dryden.
An inexhaustible store of anecdotes. Macaulay.
-- In`ex*haust"i*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`ex*haust"i*bly, adv.

INEXHAUSTIVE
In`ex*haust"ive, a.

Defn: Inexhaustible. Thomson.

INEXIST
In`ex*ist", v. i. Etym: [Pref. in- in + exist.]

Defn: To exist within; to dwell within. [Obs.]
Substances inexisting within the divine mind. A. Tucker.

INEXISTANT
In`ex*ist"ant, a. Etym: [Cf. F. inexistant. See 1st Inexistent.]

Defn: Inexistent; not existing. [Obs.] Gudworth.

INEXISTENCE
In`ex*ist"ence, n. Etym: [Pref. in- in + existence.] [Obs.]
(a) Inherence; subsistence. Bp. Hall.
(b) That which exists within; a constituent. A. Tucker.

INEXISTENCE
In`ex*ist"ence, n. Etym: [Pref. in- in + existence: cf. F.
inexistence.]

Defn: Want of being or existence.

INEXISTENT
In`ex*ist"ent, a. Etym: [Pref. in- in + existent: cf. F. inexistant.]

Defn: Not having being; not existing.

INEXISTENT
In`ex*ist"ent, a. Etym: [Pref. in- in + existent.]

Defn: Inherent; innate; indwelling. Boyle.

INEXORABILITY
In*ex`o*ra*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. inexorabilitas: cf. F.
inexorabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being inexorable, or unyielding to entreaty.
Paley.

INEXORABLE
In*ex"o*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. inexorabilis: cf. F. inexorable. See In-
not, and Exorable, Adore.]

Defn: Not to be persuaded or moved by entreaty or prayer; firm;
determined; unyielding; unchangeable; inflexible; relentless; as, an
inexorable prince or tyrant; an inexorable judge. "Inexorable
equality of laws." Gibbon. "Death's inexorable doom." Dryden.
You are more inhuman, more inexorable, O, ten times more than tigers
of Hyrcania. Shak.

INEXORABLENESS
In*ex"o*ra*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inexorable. Chillingworth.

INEXORABLY
In*ex"o*ra*bly, adv.

Defn: In an inexorable manner; inflexibly. "Inexorably firm."
Thomson.

INEXPANSIBLE
In`ex*pan"si*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of expansion, enlargement, or extension. Tyndall.

INEXPECTABLE
In`ex*pect"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not to be expected or anticipated. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

INEXPECTANT
In"ex*pect"ant, a.

Defn: Not expectant. C. Bronté.

INEXPECTATION
In*ex`pec*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Absence of expectation. Feltham.

INEXPECTED
In`ex*pect"ed, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + expected: cf. L.
inexspectatus.]

Defn: Unexpected. [Obs.]

INEXPECTEDLY
In`ex*pect"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Unexpectedly. [Obs.]

INEXPECTEDNESS
In`ex*pect"ed*ness, n.

Defn: Unexpectedness. [Obs.]

INEXPEDIENCE; INEXPEDIENCY
In`ex*pe"di*ence, In`ex*pe"di*en*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inexpedient; want of fitness;
unsuitableness to the end or object; impropriety; as, the
inexpedience of some measures.
It is not the rigor but the inexpediency of laws and acts of
authority which makes them tyrannical. Paley.

INEXPEDIENT
In`ex*pe"di*ent, a.

Defn: Not expedient; not tending to promote a purpose; not tending to
the end desired; inadvisable; unfit; improper; unsuitable to time and
place; as, what is expedient at one time may be inexpedient at
another.
If it was not unlawful, yet it was highly inexpedient to use those
ceremonies. Bp. Burnet.

Syn.
 -- Unwise; impolitic; imprudent; indiscreet; unprofitable;
inadvisable; disadvantageous.

INEXPEDIENTLY
In`ex*pe"di*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: Not

INEXPENSIVE
In`ex*pen"sive, a.

Defn: Not expensive; cheap.

INEXPERIENCE
In`ex*pe"ri*ence, n. Etym: [L. inexperientia, cf. F. inexpérience.
See In- not, and Experience.]

Defn: Absence or want of experience; lack of personal and
experimental knowledge; as, the inexperience of youth.
Failings which are incident to youth and inexperience. Dryden.
Prejudice and self-sufficiency naturally proceed from inexperience of
the world, and ignorance of mankind. Addison.

INEXPERIENCED
In`ex*pe"ri*enced, a.

Defn: Not having experience unskilled. "Inexperienced youth." Cowper.

INEXPERT
In`ex*pert", a. Etym: [L. inexpertus inexperienced: cf. F. inexpert.
See In- not, and Expert.]

1. Destitute of experience or of much experience. [Obs.] Milton.

2. Not expert; not skilled; destitute of knowledge or dexterity
derived from practice. Akenside.

INEXPERTNESS
In`ex*pert"ness, n.

Defn: Want of expertness or skill.

INEXPIABLE
In*ex"pi*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. inexpiabilis: cf. F. inexpiable. See In-
not, and Expiable.]

1. Admitting of no expiation, atonement, or satisfaction; as, an
inexpiable crime or offense. Pomfret.

2. Incapable of being mollified or appeased; relentless; implacable.
[Archaic] "Inexpiable hate." Milton.
They are at inexpiable war with all establishments. Burke.

INEXPIABLENESS
In*ex"pi*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being inexpiable.

INEXPIABLY
In*ex"pi*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an inexpiable manner of degree; to a degree that admits of
no atonement.

INEXPIATE
In*ex"pi*ate, a. Etym: [L. inexpiatus. See In- not, and Expiate.]

Defn: Not appeased or placated. [Obs.]
To rest inexpiate were much too rude a part. Chapman.

INEXPLAINABLE
In`ex*plain"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + explainable; cf. L.
inexplanabilis.]

Defn: Incapable of being explained; inexplicable.

INEXPLEABLY
In*ex"ple*a*bly, adv. Etym: [Cf. L. inexplebilis; pref. in- not +
explere to fill up. See Expletion.]

Defn: Insatiably. [Obs.] Sandys.

INEXPLICABILITY
In*ex`pli*ca*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inexplicabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being inexplicable. H. Spencer.

INEXPLICABLE
In*ex"pli*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. inexplicabilis: cf. F. inexplicable.
See In- not, and Explicable.]

Defn: Not explicable; not explainable; incapable of being explained,
interpreted, or accounted for; as, an inexplicable mystery. "An
inexplicable scratching." Cowper.
Their reason is disturbed; their views become vast and perplexed, to
others inexplicable, to themselves uncertain. Burke.

INEXPLICABLENESS
In*ex"pli*ca*ble*ness, n.

Defn: A state of being inexplicable; inexplicability.

INEXPLICABLY
In*ex"pli*ca*bly, adv.

Defn: In an inexplicable manner.

INEXPLICIT
In`ex*plic"it, a. Etym: [L. inexplicitus: cf. F. inexplicite. See In-
not, and Explicit.]

Defn: Not explicit; not clearly stated; indefinite; vague.

INEXPLORABLE
In`ex*plor"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being explored, searched out, or discovered. Sir
G. Buck.

INEXPLOSIVE
In`ex*plo"sive, a.

Defn: Not explosive.

INEXPOSURE
In`ex*po"sure, n.

Defn: A state of not being exposed.

INEXPRESSIBLE
In`ex*press"i*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of expression or utterance in language; ineffable;
unspeakable; indescribable; unutterable; as, inexpressible grief or
pleasure. "Inexpressible grandeur." Blair.
In orbs Of circuit inexpressible they stood. Milton.

INEXPRESSIBLES
In`ex*press"i*bles, n. pl.

Defn: Breeches; trousers. [Colloq. or Slang] Ld. Lytton.

INEXPRESSIBLY
In`ex*press"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an inexpressible manner or degree; unspeakably; unutterably.
Spectator.

INEXPRESSIVE
In`ex*press"ive, a.

1. Inexpressible. [R.]

2. Without expression or meaning; not expressive; dull;
unintelligent; as, an inexpressive countenance.

INEXPRESSIVENESS
In`ex*press"ive*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being inexpressive.

INEXPUGNABLE
In`ex*pug"na*ble, a. Etym: [L. inexpugnabilis: cf. F. inexpugnable.
See In- not, and Expugnable.]

Defn: Incapable of being subdued by force; impregnable;
unconquerable. Burke.
A fortress, inexpugnable by the arts of war. Milman.

INEXPUGNABLY
In`ex*pug"na*bly, adv.

Defn: So as to be inexpugnable; in an inexpugnable manner. Dr. H.
More.

INEXSUPERABLE
In`ex*su"per*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. inexsuperabilis; pref. in- not +
exsuperabilis that may be surmounted. See In- not, Ex-, and
Superable.]

Defn: Not capable of being passed over; insuperable; insurmountable.

INEXTENDED
In`ex*tend"ed, a.

Defn: Not extended.

INEXTENSIBLE
In`ex*ten"si*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of being extended; not elastic; as, inextensible
fibers.

INEXTENSION
In`ex*ten"sion, n.

Defn: Want of extension; unextended state.

INEXTERMINABLE
In`ex*ter"mi*na*ble, a. Etym: [L. inexterminabilis. See In- not, and
Exterminate.]

Defn: Incapable of extermination. Rush.

INEXTINCT
In`ex*tinct", a. Etym: [L. inextinctus, inexstinctus. See Extinct.]

Defn: Not quenched; not extinct.

INEXTINGUIBLE
In`ex*tin"gui*ble, a. Etym: [L. inexstinguibilis: cf. F,
inextinguible. See Inextinct.]

Defn: Inextinguishable. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

INEXTINGUISHABLE
In`ex*tin"guish*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of being extinguished; extinguishable;
unquenchable; as, inextinguishable flame, light, thirst, desire,
feuds. "Inextinguishable rage." Milton.

INEXTINGUISHABLY
In`ex*tin"guish*a*bly, adv.

Defn: So as not to be extinguished; in an inextinguishable manner.

INEXTIRPABLE
In`ex*tir"pa*ble, a. Etym: [L. inexstirpabilis: cf. F. inextirpable.
See In- not, and Extirpate.]

Defn: Not capable of being extirpated or rooted out; ineradicable.

INEXTRICABLE
In*ex"tri*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. inextricabilis: cf. F. inextricable.
See In- not, and Extricate.]

1. Incapable of being extricated, untied, or disentangled; hopelessly
intricate, confused, or obscure; as, an inextricable knot or
difficulty; inextricable confusion.
Lost in the wild, inextricable maze. Blackmore.

2. Inevitable. [R.] "Fate inextricable." Milton.

INEXTRICABLENESS
In*ex"tri*ca*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being inextricable.

INEXTRICABLY
In*ex"tri*ca*bly, adv.

Defn: In an inextricable manner.

INEYE
In*eye", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ineyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Ineyeing.] Etym:
[Pref. in- in + eye.]

Defn: To ingraft, as a tree or plant, by the insertion of a bud or
eye; to inoculate.
The arts of grafting and ineying. J. Philips.

INFABRICATED
In*fab"ri*ca`ted, a.

Defn: Not fabricated; unwrought; not artificial; natural. [Obs.]

INFALLIBILIST
In*fal"li*bil*ist, n.

Defn: One who accepts or maintains the dogma of papal infallibility.

INFALLIBILITY
In*fal`li*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. infaillibilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being infallible, or exempt from error;
inerrability.
Infallibility is the highest perfection of the knowing faculty.
Tillotson.
Papal infallibility (R. C. Ch.), the dogma that the pope can not,
when acting in his official character of supreme pontiff, err in
defining a doctrine of Christian faith or rule of morals, to be held
by the church. This was decreed by the Ecumenical Council at the
Vatican, July 18, 1870.

INFALLIBLE
In*fal"li*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + fallible: cf. F.
infallible.]

1. Not fallible; not capable of erring; entirely exempt from
liability to mistake; unerring; inerrable. Dryden.

2. Not liable to fail, deceive, or disappoint; indubitable; sure;
certain; as, infallible evidence; infallible success; an infallible
remedy.
To whom also he showed himself alive, after his passion, by many
infallible proofs. Acts i. 3.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: Incapable of error in defining doctrines touching faith or
morals. See Papal infallibility, under Infallibility.

INFALLIBLENESS
In*fal"li*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being infallible; infallibility. Bp.
Hall.

INFALLIBLY
In*fal"li*bly, adv.

Defn: In an infallible manner; certainly; unfailingly; unerringly.
Blair.

INFAME
In*fame", v. t. Etym: [L. infamare, fr. infamis infamous: cf. F.
infamer, It. infamare. See Infamous.]

Defn: To defame; to make infamous. [Obs.] Milton.
Livia is infamed for the poisoning of her husband. Bacon.

INFAMIZE
In"fa*mize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Infamized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Infamizing.]

Defn: To make infamous; to defame. [R.] Coleridge.

INFAMOUS
In"fa*mous, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + famous: cf. L. infamis. See
Infamy.]

1. Of very bad report; having a reputation of the worst kind; held in
abhorrence; guilty of something that exposes to infamy; base;
notoriously vile; detestable; as, an infamous traitor; an infamous
perjurer.
False errant knight, infamous, and forsworn. Spenser.

2. Causing or producing infamy; deserving detestation; scandalous to
the last degree; as, an infamous act; infamous vices; infamous
corruption. Macaulay.

3. (Law)

Defn: Branded with infamy by conviction of a crime; as, at common
law, an infamous person can not be a witness.

4. Having a bad name as being the place where an odious crime was
committed, or as being associated with something detestable; hence,
unlucky; perilous; dangerous. "Infamous woods." P. Fletcher.
Infamous hills, and sandy perilous wilds. Milton.
The piny shade More infamous by cursed Lycaon made. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Detestable; odious; scandalous; disgraceful; base; vile;
shameful; ignominious.

INFAMOUSLY
In"fa*mous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an infamous manner or degree; scandalously; disgracefully;
shamefully.
The sealed fountain of royal bounty which had been infamously
monopolized and huckstered. Burke.

INFAMOUSNESS
In"fa*mous*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being infamous; infamy.

INFAMY
In"fa*my, n.; pl. Infamies. Etym: [L. infamia, fr. infamis infamous;
pref. in- not + fama fame: cf. F. infamie. See Fame.]

1. Total loss of reputation; public disgrace; dishonor; ignominy;
indignity.
The afflicted queen would not yield, and said she would not . . .
submit to such infamy. Bp. Burnet.

2. A quality which exposes to disgrace; extreme baseness or vileness;
as, the infamy of an action.

3. (Law)

Defn: That loss of character, or public disgrace, which a convict
incurs, and by which he is at common law rendered incompetent as a
witness.

INFANCY
In"fan*cy, n. Etym: [L. infantia: cf. F. enfance. See Infant.]

1. The state or period of being an infant; the first part of life;
early childhood.
The babe yet lies in smiling infancy. Milton.
Their love in early infancy began. Dryden.

2. The first age of anything; the beginning or early period of
existence; as, the infancy of an art.
The infancy and the grandeur of Rome. Arbuthnot.

3. (Law)

Defn: The state or condition of one under age, or under the age of
twenty-one years; nonage; minority.

INFANDOUS
In*fan"dous, a. Etym: [L. infandus; pref. in- not + fari to speak.]

Defn: Too odious to be expressed or mentioned. [Obs.] Howell.

INFANGTHEF
In*fang"thef, n. Etym: [AS. in-fangen-peóf; in in, into + fangen
taken (p. p. of f to take) + peóf thief.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: The privilege granted to lords of certain manors to judge
thieves taken within the seigniory of such lords. Cowell.

INFANT
In"fant, n. Etym: [L. infans; pref. in- not +fari to speak: cf. F.
enfant, whence OE. enfaunt. See Fame, and cf. Infante, Infanta.]

1. A child in the first period of life, beginning at his birth; a
young babe; sometimes, a child several years of age.
And tender cries of infants pierce the ear. C. Pitt.

2. (Law)

Defn: A person who is not of full age, or who has not attained the
age of legal capacity; a person under the age of twenty-one years; a
minor.

Note: An infant under seven years of age is not penally responsible;
between seven and fourteen years of age, he may be convicted of a
malicious offense if malice be proved. He becomes of age on the day
preceding his twenty-first birthday, previous to which time an infant
has no capacity to contract.

3. Same as Infante. [Obs.] Spenser.

INFANT
In"fant, a.

1. Of or pertaining to infancy, or the first period of life; tender;
not mature; as, infant strength.

2. Intended for young children; as, an infant school.

INFANT
In"fant, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. enfanter.]

Defn: To bear or bring forth, as a child; hence, to produce, in
general. [Obs.]
This worthy motto, "No bishop, no king," is . . . infanted out of the
same fears. Milton.

INFANTA
In*fan"ta, n. Etym: [Sp. & Pg., fem. of infante. See Infante.]

Defn: A title borne by every one of the daughters of the kings of
Spain and Portugal, except the eldest.

INFANTE
In*fan"te, n. Etym: [Sp. & Pg. See Infant.]

Defn: A title given to every one of sons of the kings of Spain and
Portugal, except the eldest or heir apparent.

INFANTHOOD
In"fant*hood, n.

Defn: Infancy. [R.]

INFANTICIDAL
In*fan"ti*ci`dal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to infanticide; engaged in, or guilty of,
child murder.

INFANTICIDE
In*fan"ti*cide, n. Etym: [L. infanticidium child murder; infans, -
antis, child + caedere to kill: cf. F. infanticide. See Infant, and
Homicide.]

Defn: The murder of an infant born alive; the murder or killing of a
newly born or young child; child murder.

INFANTICIDE
In*fan"ti*cide, n. Etym: [L. infanticida: cf. F. infanticide.]

Defn: One who commits the crime of infanticide; one who kills an
infant.

INFANTILE
In"fan*tile, a. Etym: [L. infantilis: cf. F. infantile. See Infant.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to infancy, or to an infant; similar to, or
characteristic of, an infant; childish; as, infantile behavior.

INFANTILE PARALYSIS
In"fan*tile pa*ral"y*sis. (Med.)

Defn: An acute disease, almost exclusively infantile, characterized
by inflammation of the anterior horns of the gray substance of the
spinal cord. It is attended with febrile symptoms, motor paralysis,
and muscular atrophy, often producing permanent deformities. Called
also acute anterior poliomyelitis.

INFANTINE
In"fan*tine, a. Etym: [Cf. F. enfantin.]

Defn: Infantile; childish.
A degree of credulity next infantine. Burke.

INFANTLIKE
In"fant*like`, a.

Defn: Like an infant. Shak.

INFANTLY
In"fant*ly, a.

Defn: Like an infant. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

INFANTRY
In"fan*try, n. Etym: [F. infanterie, It. infanteria, fr. infante
infant, child, boy servant, foot soldier, fr. L. infans, -antis,
child; foot soldiers being formerly the servants and followers of
knights. See Infant.]

1. A body of children. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A body of soldiers serving on foot; foot soldiers, in
distinction from cavalry.

INFARCE
In*farce", v. t. Etym: [L. infarcire: pref. in- in + farcire, fartum
and farctum, to stuff, cram.]

Defn: To stuff; to swell. [Obs.]
The body is infarced with . . . watery humors. Sir T. Elyot.

INFARCT
In*farct", n. [See Infarce.] (Med.)
 (a) An obstruction or embolus.
 (b) The morbid condition of a limited area resulting from such
obstruction; as, a hemorrhagic infarct.

INFARCTION
In*farc"tion, n. Etym: [See Infarce.]

Defn: The act of stuffing or filling; an overloading and obstruction
of any organ or vessel of the body; constipation.

INFARE
In"fare`, n. Etym: [AS. infær entrance.]

Defn: A house-warming; especially, a reception, party, or
entertainment given by a newly married couple, or by the husband upon
receiving the wife to his house. [Written also infair.] [Scot., &
Local, U. S.]

INFASHIONABLE
In*fash"ion*a*ble, a.

Defn: Unfashionable. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

INFATIGABLE
In*fat"i*ga*ble, a. Etym: [L. infatigabilis: cf. F. infatigable.]

Defn: Indefatigable. [Obs.] Daniel.

INFATUATE
In*fat"u*ate, a. Etym: [L. infatuatus, p. p. of infatuare to
infatuate; pref. in- in + fatuus foolish. See Fatuous.]

Defn: Infatuated. Bp. Hall.

INFATUATE
In*fat"u*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Infatuated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Infatuating.]

1. To make foolish; to affect with folly; to weaken the intellectual
powers of, or to deprive of sound judgment.
The judgment of God will be very visible in infatuating a people . .
. ripe and prepared for destruction. Clarendon.

2. To inspire with a foolish and extravagant passion; as, to be
infatuated with gaming.
The people are . . . infatuated with the notion. Addison.

INFATUATED
In*fat"u*a`ted, a.

Defn: Overcome by some foolish passion or desire; affected by
infatuation.

INFATUATION
In*fat`u*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. infatuatio: cf. F. infatuation.]

Defn: The act of infatuating; the state of being infatuated; folly;
that which infatuates.
The infatuations of the sensual and frivolous part of mankind are
amazing; but the infatuations of the learned and sophistical are
incomparably more so. I. Taylor.
Such is the infatuation of self-love. Blair.

INFAUST
In*faust", a. Etym: [L. infaustus; pref. in- not + faustus fortunate,
lucky.]

Defn: Not favorable; unlucky; unpropitious; sinister. [R.] Ld.
Lytton.

INFAUSTING
In*faust"ing, n.

Defn: The act of making unlucky; misfortune; bad luck. [Obs.] Bacon.

INFEASIBILITY
In*fea`si*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being infeasible; impracticability.

INFEASIBLE
In*fea"si*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of being done or accomplished; impracticable.
Glanvill.

INFEASIBLENESS
In*fea"si*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state of quality of being infeasible; infeasibility. W.
Montagu.

INFECT
In*fect", a. Etym: [L. infectus: cf. F. infect. See Infect, v. t.]

Defn: Infected. Cf. Enfect. [Obs.] Shak.

INFECT
In*fect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Infected; p. pr. & vb. n. Infecting.]
Etym: [L. infectus, p. p. of inficere to put or dip into, to stain,
infect; pref. in- in + facere to make; cf. F. infecter. See Fact.]

1. To taint with morbid matter or any pestilential or noxious
substance or effluvium by which disease is produced; as, to infect a
lancet; to infect an apartment.

2. To affect with infectious disease; to communicate infection to;
as, infected with the plague.
Them that were left alive being infected with this disease. Sir T.
North.

3. To communicate to or affect with, as qualities or emotions, esp.
bad qualities; to corrupt; to contaminate; to taint by the
communication of anything noxious or pernicious. Cowper.
Infected Ston's daughters with like heat. Milton.

4. (Law)

Defn: To contaminate with illegality or to expo

Syn.
 -- To poison; vitiate; pollute; defile.

INFECTER
In*fect"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, infects.

INFECTIBLE
In*fect"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being infected.

INFECTION
In*fec"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. infection, L. infectio a dyeing.]

1. The act or process of infecting.
There was a strict order against coming to those pits, and that was
only to prevent infection. De Foe.

2. That which infects, or causes the communicated disease; any
effluvium, miasm, or pestilential matter by which an infectious
disease is caused.
And that which was still worse, they that did thus break out spread
the infection further by their wandering about with the distemper
upon them. De Foe.

3. The state of being infected; contamination by morbific particles;
the result of infecting influence; a prevailing disease; epidemic.
The danger was really very great, the infection being so very violent
in London. De Foe.

4. That which taints or corrupts morally; as, the infection of
vicious principles.
It was her chance to light Amidst the gross infections of those
times. Daniel.

5. (Law)

Defn: Contamination by illegality, as in cases of contraband goods;
implication.

6. Sympathetic communication of like qualities or emotions;
influence.
Through all her train the soft infection ran. Pope.
Mankind are gay or serious by infection. Rambler.

Syn.
 -- Infection, Contagion.
 -- Infection is often used in a definite and limited sense of the
transmission of affections without direct contact of individuals or
immediate application or introduction of the morbific agent, in
contradistinction to contagion, which then implies transmission by
direct contact. Quain. See Contagious.

INFECTIOUS
In*fec"tious, a. Etym: [Cf. F. infectieux.]

1. Having qualities that may infect; communicable or caused by
infection; pestilential; epidemic; as, an infectious fever;
infectious clothing; infectious air; infectious vices.
Where the infectious pestilence. Shak.

2. Corrupting, or tending to corrupt or contaminate; vitiating;
demoralizing.
It [the court] is necessary for the polishing of manners . . . but it
is infectious even to the best morals to live always in it. Dryden.

3. (Law)

Defn: Contaminating with illegality; exposing to seizure and
forfeiture.
Contraband articles are said to be of an infectious nature. Kent.

4. Capable of being easily diffused or spread; sympathetic; readily
communicated; as, infectious mirth.
The laughter was so genuine as to be infectious. W. Black.

Syn.
 -- See Contagious.

INFECTIOUS DISEASE
In*fec"tious dis*ease".
 (a) Any disease caused by the entrance, growth, and multiplication
of bacteria or protozoans in the body; a germ disease. It may not be
contagious.
 (b) Sometimes, as distinguished from contagious disease, such a
disease communicated by germs carried in the air or water, and thus
spread without contact with the patient, as measles.

INFECTIOUSLY
In*fec"tious*ly, adv.

Defn: In an infectious manner. Shak.

INFECTIOUSNESS
In*fec"tious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being infectious.

INFECTIVE
In*fect"ive, a. Etym: [L. infectivus pertaining to dyeing.]

Defn: Infectious. Beau. & Fl.
True love . . . hath an infective power. Sir P. Sidney.

INFECUND
In*fec"und, a. Etym: [L. infecundus: cf. F. infécond. See In- not,
and Fecund.]

Defn: Unfruitful; not producing young; barren; infertile. [Obs.]
Evelyn.

INFECUNDITY
In`fe*cun"di*ty, n. Etym: [L. infecunditas: cf. F. infécondité.]

Defn: Want of fecundity or fruitfulness; barrenness; sterility;
unproductiveness.

INFECUNDOUS
In`fe*cun"dous, a. Etym: [See Infecund.]

Defn: Infertile; barren; unprofitable; unproductive. [Obs.] Glanvill.

INFEEBLE
In*fee"ble, v. t.

Defn: See Enfeeble.

INFELICITOUS
In`fe*lic"i*tous, a.

Defn: Not felicitous; unhappy; unfortunate; not fortunate or
appropriate in application; not well said, expressed, or done; as, an
infelicitous condition; an infelicitous remark; an infelicitous
description; infelicitous words.

INFELICITY
In`fe*lic"i*ty, n.; pl. Infelicities. Etym: [L. infelicitas: cf. F.
infélicité. See In- not, and Felicity.]

1. The state or quality of being infelicitous; unhappiness; misery;
wretchedness; misfortune; want of suitableness or appropriateness. I.
Watts.
Whatever is the ignorance and infelicity of the present state, we
were made wise and happy. Glanvill.

2. That (as an act, word, expression, etc.) which is infelicitous;
as, infelicities of speech.

INFELONIOUS
In`fe*lo"ni*ous, a.

Defn: Not felonious, malignant, or criminal. G. Eliot.

INFELT
In"felt`, a. Etym: [Pref. in- in + felt.]

Defn: Felt inwardly; heartfelt. [R.]
The baron stood afar off, or knelt in submissive, acknowledged,
infelt inferiority. Milman.

INFEODATION
In`feo*da"tion, n. (Law)

Defn: See Infeudation.

INFEOFF
In*feoff", v. t. (Law)

Defn: See Enfeoff.

INFEOFFMENT
In*feoff"ment, n. (Law)

Defn: See Enfeoffment.

INFER
In*fer", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inferred; p. pr. & vb. n. Inferring.]
Etym: [L. inferre to bring into, bring forward, occasion, infer;
pref. in- in + ferre to carry, bring: cf. F. inférer. See 1 st Bear.]

1. To bring on; to induce; to occasion. [Obs.] Harvey.

2. To offer, as violence. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. To bring forward, or employ as an argument; to adduce; to allege;
to offer. [Obs.]
Full well hath Clifford played the orator, Inferring arguments of
mighty force. Shak.

4. To derive by deduction or by induction; to conclude or surmise
from facts or premises; to accept or derive, as a consequence,
conclusion, or probability; to imply; as, I inferred his
determination from his silence.
To infer is nothing but by virtue of one proposition laid down as
true, to draw in another as true. Locke.
Such opportunities always infer obligations. Atterbury.

5. To show; to manifest; to prove. [Obs.]
The first part is not the proof of the second, but rather
contrariwise, the second inferreth well the first. Sir T. More.
This doth infer the zeal I had to see him. Shak.

INFERABLE
In*fer"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being inferred or deduced from premises. [Written
also inferrible.] H. Spencer.
A sufficient argument . . . is inferable from these premises. Burke.

INFERENCE
In"fer*ence, n. Etym: [From Infer.]

1. The act or process of inferring by deduction or induction.
Though it may chance to be right in the conclusions, it is yet unjust
and mistaken in the method of inference. Glanvill.

2. That which inferred; a truth or proposition drawn from another
which is admitted or supposed to be true; a conclusion; a deduction.
Milton.
These inferences, or conclusions, are the effects of reasoning, and
the three propositions, taken all together, are called syllogism, or
argument. I. Watts.

Syn.
 -- Conclusion; deduction; consequence.
 -- Inference, Conclusion. An inference is literally that which is
brought in; and hence, a deduction or induction from premises, --
something which follows as certainly or probably true. A conclusion
is stronger than an inference; it shuts us up to the result, and
terminates inquiry. We infer what is particular or probable; we
conclude what is certain. In a chain of reasoning we have many
inferences, which lead to the ultimate conclusion. "An inference is a
proposition which is perceived to be true, because of its connection
with some known fact." "When something is simply affirmed to be true,
it is called a proposition; after it has been found to be true by
several reasons or arguments, it is called a conclusion." I. Taylor.

INFERENTIAL
In`fer*en"tial, a.

Defn: Deduced or deducible by inference. "Inferential proofs." J. S.
Mill.

INFERENTIALLY
In`fer*en"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of inference.

INFERIAE
In*fe"ri*æ, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. inferus underneath.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: Sacrifices offered to the souls of deceased heroes or friends.

INFERIOR
In*fe"ri*or, a. Etym: [L., compar. of inferus that is below,
underneath, the lower; akin to E. under: cf. F. inférieur. See
Under.]

1. Lower in place, rank, excellence, etc.; less important or
valuable; subordinate; underneath; beneath.
A thousand inferior and particular propositions. I. Watts.
The body, or, as some love to call it, our inferior nature. Burke.
Whether they are equal or inferior to my other poems, an author is
the most improper judge. Dryden.

2. Poor or mediocre; as, an inferior quality of goods.

3. (Astron.)
(a) Nearer the sun than the earth is; as, the inferior or interior
planets; an inferior conjunction of Mercury or Venus.
(b) Below the horizon; as, the inferior part of a meridian,

4. (Bot.)
(a) Situated below some other organ; -- said of a calyx when free
from the ovary, and therefore below it, or of an ovary with an
adherent and therefore inferior calyx.
(b) On the side of a flower which is next the bract; anterior.

5. (Min.)

Defn: Junior or subordinate in rank; as, an inferior officer.
Inferior court (Law), a court subject to the jurisdiction of another
court known as the superior, or higher, court.
 -- Inferior letter, Inferior figure (Print.), a small letter or
figure standing at the bottom of the line (opposed to superior letter
or figure), as in A2, Bn, 2 and n are inferior characters.
 -- Inferior tide, the tide corresponding to the moon's transit of
the meridian, when below the horizon.

INFERIOR
In*fe"ri*or, n.

Defn: A person lower in station, rank, intellect, etc., than another.
A great person gets more by obliging his inferior than by disdaining
him. South.

INFERIORITY
In*fe`ri*or"i*ty, Etym: [Cf. F. infériorité.]

Defn: The state of being inferior; a lower state or condition; as,
inferiority of rank, of talents, of age, of worth.
A deep sense of our own great inferiority. Boyle.

INFERIORLY
In*fe"ri*or*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inferior manner, or on the inferior part.

INFERNAL
In*fer"nal, a. Etym: [F. infernal, L. infernalis, fr. infernus that
which lies beneath, the lower. See Inferior.]

1. Of or pertaining to or suitable for the lower regions, inhabited,
according to the ancients, by the dead; pertaining to Pluto's realm
of the dead, the Tartarus of the ancients.
The Elysian fields, the infernal monarchy. Garth.

2. Of or pertaining to, resembling, or inhabiting, hell; suitable for
hell, or to the character of the inhabitants of hell; hellish;
diabolical; as, infernal spirits, or conduct.
The instruments or abettors in such infernal dealings. Addison.
Infernal machine, a machine or apparatus maliciously designed to
explode, and destroy life or property.
 -- Infernal stone (lapis infernalis), lunar caustic; formerly so
called. The name was also applied to caustic potash.

Syn.
 -- Tartarean; Stygian; hellish; devilish; diabolical; satanic;
fiendish; malicious.

INFERNAL
In*fer"nal, n.

Defn: An inhabitant of the infernal regions; also, the place itself.
[Obs.] Drayton.

INFERNALLY
In*fer"nal*ly, adv.

Defn: In an infernal manner; diabolically. "Infernally false." Bp.
Hacket.

INFERNO
In*fer"no, n. [It. See Infernal.]

Defn: The infernal regions; hell. Also used fig.

At each sudden explosion in the inferno below they sprang back from
the brink [of the volcanic crater].
D. C. Worcester.

INFEROBRANCHIAN
In`fe*ro*bran"chi*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Inferobranchiata.

INFEROBRANCHIATA
In`fe*ro*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Inferobranchiate.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of marine gastropod mollusks, in which the gills are
between the foot and the mantle.

INFEROBRANCHIATE
In`fe*ro*bran"chi*ate, a. Etym: [L. inferus lower + E. branchiate.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the gills on the sides of the body, under the margin of
the mantle; belonging to the Inferobranchiata.

INFERRIBLE
In*fer"ri*ble, a.

Defn: Inferable.

INFERTILE
In*fer"tile, a. Etym: [L. infertilis: cf. F. infertile. See In- not,
and Fertile.]

Defn: Not fertile; not productive; barren; sterile; as, an infertile
soil.

INFERTILELY
In*fer"tile*ly, adv.

Defn: In an infertile manner.

INFERTILITY
In`fer*til"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. infertilitas: cf. F. infertilité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being infertile; unproductiveness;
barrenness.
The infertility or noxiousness of the soil. Sir M. Hale.

INFEST
In*fest", a. Etym: [L. infestus. See Infest, v. t.]

Defn: Mischievous; hurtful; harassing. [Obs.] Spenser.

INFEST
In*fest", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Infested; p. pr. & vb. n. Infesting.]
Etym: [L. infestare, fr. infestus disturbed, hostile, troublesome; in
in, against + the root of defendere: cf. F. infester. See Defend.]

Defn: To trouble greatly by numbers or by frequency of presence; to
disturb; to annoy; to frequent and molest or harass; as, fleas infest
dogs and cats; a sea infested with pirates.
To poison vermin that infest his plants. Cowper.
These, said the genius, are envy, avarice, superstition, love, with
the like cares and passions that infest human life. Addison.
And the cares, that infest the day, Shall fold their tents, like the
Arabs, And as silently steal away. Longfellow.

INFESTATION
In`fest*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. infestatio: cf. F. infestation.]

Defn: The act of infesting or state of being infested; molestation;
vexation; annoyance. Bacon.
Free from the infestation of enemies. Donne.

INFESTER
In*fest"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, infests.

INFESTIVE
In*fest"ive, a. Etym: [L. infestivus. See In- not, and Festive.]

Defn: Having no mirth; not festive or merry; dull; cheerless; gloomy;
forlorn. [R.]

INFESTIVITY
In`fes*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: Want of festivity, cheerfulness, or mirth; dullness;
cheerlessness. [R.]

INFESTUOUS
In*fes"tu*ous, a. Etym: [L. infestus. See Infest, a.]

Defn: Mischievous; harmful; dangerous. [Obs.] "Infestuous as
serpents." Bacon.

INFEUDATION
In`feu*da"tion, n. Etym: [LL. infeudatio, fr. infeudare to enfeoff:
cf. F. inféodation. See Feud a fief.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The act of putting one in possession of an estate in fee. Sir
M. Hale.

2. The granting of tithes to laymen. Blackstone.

INFIBULATION
In*fib`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. infibulare, infibulatum, to clasp,
buckle, or button together; pref. in- in + fibula clasp, buckle: cf.
F. infibulation.]

1. The act of clasping, or fastening, as with a buckle or padlock.

2. The act of attaching a ring, clasp, or frame, to the genital
organs in such a manner as to prevent copulation.

INFIDEL
In"fi*del, a. Etym: [L. infidelis; pref. in- not + fidelis faithful,
fr. fides faith: cf. F. infidèle. See Fidelity.]

Defn: Not holding the faith; -- applied esp. to one who does not
believe in the inspiration of the Scriptures, and the supernatural
origin of Christianity.
The infidel writer is a great enemy to society. V. Knox.

INFIDEL
In"fi*del, n.

Defn: One who does not believe in the prevailing religious faith;
especially, one who does not believe in the divine origin and
authority of Christianity; a Mohammedan; a heathen; a freethinker.

Note: Infidel is used by English writers to translate the equivalent
word used Mohammedans in speaking of Christians and other
disbelievers in Mohammedanism.

Syn.
 -- Infidel, Unbeliever, Freethinker, Deist, Atheist, Sceptic,
Agnostic. An infidel, in common usage, is one who denies Christianity
and the truth of the Scriptures. Some have endeavored to widen the
sense of infidel so as to embrace atheism and every form of unbelief;
but this use does not generally prevail. A freethinker is now only
another name for an infidel. An unbeliever is not necessarily a
disbeliever or infidel, because he may still be inquiring after
evidence to satisfy his mind; the word, however, is more commonly
used in the extreme sense. A deist believes in one God and a divine
providence, but rejects revelation. An atheist denies the being of
God. A sceptic is one whose faith in the credibility of evidence is
weakened or destroyed, so that religion, to the same extent, has no
practical hold on his mind. An agnostic remains in a state of
suspended judgment, neither affirming nor denying the existence of a
personal Deity.

INFIDELITY
In`fi*del"i*ty, n.; pl. Infidelities (. Etym: [L. infidelitas: cf. F.
infidélité.]

1. Want of faith or belief in some religious system; especially, a
want of faith in, or disbelief of, the inspiration of the Scriptures,
of the divine origin of Christianity.
There is, indeed, no doubt but that vanity is one of the principal
causes of infidelity. V. Knox.

2. Unfaithfulness to the marriage vow or contract; violation of the
marriage covenant by adultery.

3. Breach of trust; unfaithfulness to a charge, or to moral
obligation; treachery; deceit; as, the infidelity of a servant. "The
infidelity of friends." Sir W. Temple.

INFIELD
In*field", v. t.

Defn: To inclose, as a field. [R.]

INFIELD
In"field`, n.

1. Arable and manured land kept continually under crop; --
distinguished from outfield. [Scotland] Jamieson.

2. (Baseball)

Defn: The diamond; -- opposed to outfield. See Diamond, n., 5.

INFILE
In*file", v. t.

Defn: To arrange in a file or rank; to place in order. [Obs.]
Holland.

INFILM
In*film", v. t.

Defn: To cover with a film; to coat thinly; as, to infilm one metal
with another in the process of gilding; to infilm the glass of a
mirror. [R.]

INFILTER
In*fil"ter, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Infiltered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Infiltering.] Etym: [Cf. Infiltrate.]

Defn: To filter or sift in.

INFILTRATE
In*fil"trate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Infiltrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Infiltrating.] Etym: [Pref. in- + filtrate: cf. F, s'infiltrer. Cf.
Infilter.]

Defn: To enter by penetrating the pores or interstices of a
substance; to filter into or through something.
The water infiltrates through the porous rock. Addison.

INFILTRATE
In*fil"trate, v. t.

Defn: To penetrate gradually; -- sometimes used reflexively. J. S.
Mill.

INFILTRATION
In`fil*tra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. infiltration.]

1. The act or process of infiltrating, as if water into a porous
substance, or of a fluid into the cells of an organ or part of the
body.

2. The substance which has entered the pores or cavities of a body.
Addison.
Calcareous infiltrations filling the cavities. Kirwan.
Fatty infiltration. (Med.) See under Fatty.
 -- Infiltration gallery, a filter gallery.

INFILTRATIVE
In*fil"tra*tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to infiltration. Kane.

INFINITE
In"fi*nite, a. Etym: [L. infinitus: cf. F. infini. See In- not, and
Finite.]

1. Unlimited or boundless, in time or space; as, infinite duration or
distance.
Whatever is finite, as finite, will admit of no comparative relation
with infinity; for whatever is less than infinite is still infinitely
distant from infinity; and lower than infinite distance the lowest or
least can not sink. H. Brooke.

2. Without limit in power, capacity, knowledge, or excellence;
boundless; immeasurably or inconceivably great; perfect; as, the
infinite wisdom and goodness of God; -- opposed to finite.
Great is our Lord, and of great power; his understanding is infinite.
Ps. cxlvii. 5.
O God, how infinite thou art! I. Watts.

3. Indefinitely large or extensive; great; vast; immense; gigantic;
prodigious.
Infinite riches in a little room. Marlowe.
Which infinite calamity shall cause To human life. Milton.

4. (Math.)

Defn: Greater than any assignable quantity of the same kind; -- said
of certain quantities.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: Capable of endless repetition; -- said of certain forms of the
canon, called also perpetual fugues, so constructed that their ends
lead to their beginnings, and the performance may be incessantly
repeated. Moore (Encyc. of Music).

Syn.
 -- Boundless; immeasurable; illimitable; interminable; limitless;
unlimited; endless; eternal.

INFINITE
In"fi*nite, n.

1. That which is infinite; boundless space or duration; infinity;
boundlessness.
Not till the weight is heaved from off the air, and the thunders roll
down the horizon, will the serene light of God flow upon us, and the
blue infinite embrace us again. J. Martineau.

2. (Math.)

Defn: An infinite quantity or magnitude.

3. An infinity; an incalculable or very great number.
Glittering chains, embroidered richly o'er With infinite of pearls
and finest gold. Fanshawe.

4. The Infinite Being; God; the Almighty.

INFINITELY
In"fi*nite*ly, adv.

1. Without bounds or limits; beyond or below assignable limits; as,
an infinitely large or infinitely small quantity.

2. Very; exceedingly; vastly; highly; extremely. "Infinitely
pleased." Dryden.

INFINITENESS
In"fi*nite*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being infinite; infinity; greatness;
immensity. Jer. Taylor.

INFINITESIMAL
In`fin*i*tes"i*mal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. infinitésimal, fr. infinitésime
infinitely small, fr. L. infinitus. See Infinite, a.]

Defn: Infinitely or indefinitely small; less than any assignable
quantity or value; very small. Infinitesimal calculus, the different
and the integral calculus, when developed according to the method
used by Leibnitz, who regarded the increments given to variables as
infinitesimal.

INFINITESIMAL
In`fin*i*tes"i*mal, n. (Math.)

Defn: An infinitely small quantity; that which is less than any
assignable quantity.

INFINITESIMALLY
In`fin*i*tes"i*mal*ly, adv.

Defn: By infinitesimals; in infinitely small quantities; in an
infinitesimal degree.

INFINITIVAL
In*fin`i*ti"val, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the infinite mood. "Infinitival stems." Fitzed.
Hall.

INFINITIVE
In*fin"i*tive, n. Etym: [L. infinitivus: cf. F. infinitif. See
Infinite.]

Defn: Unlimited; not bounded or restricted; undefined. Infinitive
mood (Gram.), that form of the verb which merely names the action,
and performs the office of a verbal noun. Some grammarians make two
forms in English: (a) The simple form, as, speak, go, hear, before
which to is commonly placed, as, to speak; to go; to hear. (b) The
form of the imperfect participle, called the infinitive in -ing; as,
going is as easy as standing.

Note: With the auxiliary verbs may, can, must, might, could, would,
and should, the simple infinitive is expressed without to; as, you
may speak; they must hear, etc. The infinitive usually omits to with
the verbs let, dare, do, bid, make, see, hear, need, etc.; as, let me
go; you dare not tell; make him work; hear him talk, etc.

Note: In Anglo-Saxon, the simple infinitive was not preceded by to
(the sign of modern simple infinitive), but it had a dative form
(sometimes called the gerundial infinitive) which was preceded by to,
and was chiefly employed in expressing purpose. See Gerund, 2.

Note: The gerundial ending (-anne) not only took the same form as the
simple infinitive (-an), but it was confounded with the present
participle in -ende, or -inde (later -inge).

INFINITIVE
In*fin"i*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: An infinitive form of the verb; a verb in the infinitive mood;
the infinitive mood.

INFINITIVE
In*fin"i*tive, adv. (Gram.)

Defn: In the manner of an infinitive mood.

INFINITO
In`fi*ni"to, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Infinite; perpetual, as a canon whose end leads back to the
beginning. See Infinite, a., 5.

INFINITUDE
In*fin"i*tude, n.

1. The quality or state of being infinite, or without limits;
infiniteness.

2. Infinite extent; unlimited space; immensity; infinity. "I am who
fill infinitude." Milton.
As pleasing to the fancy, as speculations of eternity or infinitude
are to the understanding. Addison.

3. Boundless number; countless multitude. "An infinitude of
distinctions." Addison.

INFINITUPLE
In*fin"i*tu`ple, a. Etym: [Cf. Quadruple.]

Defn: Multipied an infinite number of times. [R.] Wollaston.

INFINITY
In*fin"i*ty, n.; pl. Infinities. Etym: [L. infinitas; pref. in- not +
finis boundary, limit, end: cf. F. infinité. See Finite.]

1. Unlimited extent of time, space, or quantity; eternity;
boundlessness; immensity. Sir T. More.
There can not be more infinities than one; for one of them would
limit the other. Sir W. Raleigh.

2. Unlimited capacity, energy, excellence, or knowledge; as, the
infinity of God and his perfections. Hooker.

3. Endless or indefinite number; great multitude; as an infinity of
beauties. Broome.

4. (Math.)

Defn: A quantity greater than any assignable quantity of the same
kind.

Note: Mathematically considered, infinity is always a limit of a
variable quantity, resulting from a particular supposition made upon
the varying element which enters it. Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. ).

5. (Geom.)

Defn: That part of a line, or of a plane, or of space, which is
infinitely distant. In modern geometry, parallel lines or planes are
sometimes treated as lines or planes meeting at infinity. Circle at
infinity, an imaginary circle at infinity, through which, in geometry
of three dimensions, every sphere is imagined to pass.
 -- Circular points at infinity. See under Circular.

INFIRM
In*firm", a. Etym: [L.infirmus: cf.F.infirme. See In- not, and Firm,
a.]

1. Not firm or sound; weak; feeble; as, an infirm body; an infirm
constitution.
A poor, infirm, weak, and despised old man. Shak.

2. Weak of mind or will; irresolute; vacillating. "An infirm
judgment." Burke.
Infirm of purpose! Shak.

3. Not solid or stable; insecure; precarious.
He who fixes on false principles treads or infirm ground. South.

Syn.
 -- Debilitated; sickly; feeble; decrepit; weak; enfeebled;
irresolute; vacillating; imbecile.

INFIRM
In*firm", v. t. Etym: [L. infirmare : cf. F.infirmer.]

Defn: To weaken; to enfeeble. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.

INFIRMARIAN
In`fir*ma"ri*an, n.

Defn: A person dwelling in, or having charge of, an infirmary, esp.
in a monastic institution.

INFIRMARY
In*firm"a*ry, n.; pl. Infirmaries. Etym: [Cf. OE. fermerie, OF.
enfermerie, F. infirmerie, LL. infirmaria. See Infirm.]

Defn: A hospital, or place where the infirm or sick are lodged and
nursed gratuitously, or where out-patients are treated.

INFIRMATIVE
In*firm"a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. infirmatif.]

Defn: Weakening; annulling, or tending to make void. [Obs.]

INFIRMATORY
In*firm"a*to*ry, n.

Defn: An infirmary. [Obs.]

INFIRMITY
In*firm"i*ty, n.; pl. Infirmities. Etym: [L. infirmitas : cf. F.
infirmite. See Infirm, a.]

1. The state of being infirm; feebleness; an imperfection or
weakness; esp., an unsound, unhealthy, or debilitated state; a
disease; a malady; as, infirmity of body or mind.
'T is the infirmity of his age. Shak.

2. A personal frailty or failing; foible; eccentricity; a weakness or
defect.
Will you be cured of your infirmity Shak.
A friend should bear his friend's infirmities. Shak.
The house has also its infirmities. Evelyn.

Syn.
 -- Debility; imbecility; weakness; feebleness; failing; foible;
defect; disease; malady. See Debility.

INFIRMLY
In*firm"ly, adv.

Defn: In an infirm manner.

INFIRMNESS
In*firm"ness, n.

Defn: Infirmity; feebleness. Boyle.

INFIX
In*fix", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Infixed; p. pr. & vb. n. Infixing.]
Etym: [L. infixus, p.p of infigere to infix; pref. in- in + figere to
fix: cf. F. infixer. See Fix.]

1. To set; to fasten or fix by piercing or thrusting in; as, to infix
a sting, spear, or dart. Shak.
The fatal dart a ready passage found, And deep within her heart
infixed the wound. Dryden.

2. To implant or fix; to instill; to inculcate, as principles,
thoughts, or instructions; as, to infix good principles in the mind,
or ideas in the memory.

INFIX
In"fix, n.

Defn: Something infixed. [R.] Welsford.

INFLAME
In*flame", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inflamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Inflaming.]
Etym: [OE. enflamen, OF. enflamer, F. enflammer, L.
inflammare,inflammatum; pref.in- in + flammare to flame, fr.flamma
flame. See Flame.]

1. To set on fire; to kindle; to cause to burn, flame, or glow.
We should have made retreat By light of the inflamed fleet. Chapman.

2. Fig.: To kindle or intensify, as passion or appetite; to excite to
an excessive or unnatural action or heat; as, to inflame desire.
Though more,it seems, Inflamed with lust than rage. Milton.
But, O inflame and fire our hearts. Dryden.

3. To provoke to anger or rage; to exasperate; to irritate; to
incense; to enrage.
It will inflame you; it will make you mad. Shak.

4. (Med.)

Defn: To put in a state of inflammation; to produce morbid heat,
congestion, or swelling, of; as, to inflame the eyes by overwork.

5. To exaggerate; to enlarge upon. [Obs.]
A friend exaggerates a man's virtues, an enemy inflames his crimes.
Addison.

Syn.
 -- To provoke; fire; kindle; irritate; exasperate; incense; enrage;
anger; excite; arouse.

INFLAME
In*flame", v. i.

Defn: To grow morbidly hot, congested, or painful; to become angry or
incensed. Wiseman.

INFLAMED
In*flamed", p. a.

1. Set on fire; enkindled; heated; congested; provoked; exasperated.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Represented as burning, or as adorned with tongues of flame.

INFLAMER
In*flam"er (n-flam''r), n.

Defn: The person or thing that inflames. Addison.

INFLAMMABILLTY
In*flam"ma*bil"l*ty, n. Etym: [Cf.F. inflammabilite.]

Defn: Susceptibility of taking fire readily; the state or quality of
being inflammable.

INFLAMMABLE
In*flam"ma*ble, a. Etym: [CF. F. inflammable.]

1. Capable of being easily set fire; easily enkindled; combustible;
as, inflammable oils or spirits.

2. Excitable; irritable; irascible; easily provoked; as, an
inflammable temper. Inflammable air, the old chemical name for
hydrogen.

INFLAMMABLENESS
In*flam"ma*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inflammable; inflammability.
Boyle.

INFLAMMABLY
In*flam"ma*bly, adv.

Defn: In an inflammable manner.

INFLAMMATION
In*flam*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. inflammatio: cf. F. inflammation. See
Inflame.]

1. The act of inflaming, kindling, or setting on fire; also, the
state of being inflamed. "The inflammation of fat." Wilkins.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition of any part of the body, consisting in
congestion of the blood vessels, with obstruction of the blood
current, and growth of morbid tissue. It is manifested outwardly by
redness and swelling, attended with heat and pain.

3. Violent excitement; heat; passion; animosity; turbulence; as, an
inflammation of the mind, of the body politic, or of parties. Hooker.

INFLAMMATIVE
In*flam"ma*tive, a.

Defn: Inflammatory.

INFLAMMATORY
In*flam"ma*to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. inflammatoire.]

1. Tending to inflame, kindle, or irritate.

2. Tending to excite anger, animosity, tumult, or sedition;
seditious; as, inflammatory libels, writings, speeches, or
publications. Burke.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Accompanied with, or tending to cause, preternatural heat and
excitement of arterial action; as, an inflammatory disease.
Inflammatory crust. (Med.) Same as Buffy coat, under Buffy.
 -- Inflammatory fever, a variety of fever due to inflammation.

INFLATABLE
In*flat"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be inflated.

INFLATE
In*flate", p. a. Etym: [L. inflatus, p.p. of inflare to inflate;
pref. in- in + flare to blow. See Blow to puff wind.]

Defn: Blown in; inflated. Chaucer.

INFLATE
In*flate", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inflated; p. pr. & vb. n. Inflating.]

1. To swell or distend with air or gas; to dilate; to expand; to
enlarge; as, to inflate a bladder; to inflate the lungs.
When passion's tumults in the bosom rise, Inflate the features, and
enrage the eyes. J. Scott of Amwell.

2. Fig.: To swell; to puff up; to elate; as, to inflate one with
pride or vanity.
Inflate themselves with some insane delight. Tennyson.

3. To cause to become unduly expanded or increased; as, to inflate
the currency.

INFLATE
In*flate", v. i.

Defn: To expand; to fill; to distend.

INFLATED
In*flat"ed, a.

1. Filled, as with air or gas; blown up; distended; as, a balloon
inflated with gas.

2. Turgid; swelling; puffed up; bombastic; pompous; as, an inflated
style.
Inflated and astrut with self-conceit. Cowper.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Hollow and distended, as a perianth, corolla, nectary, or
pericarp. Martyn.

4. Distended or enlarged fictitiously; as, inflated prices, etc.

INFLATER
In*flat"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, inflates; as, the inflaters of the
stock exchange.

INFLATINGLY
In*flat"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner tending to inflate.

INFLATION
In*fla"tion, n. Etym: [L. inflatio: cf. F. inflation.]

1. The act or process of inflating, or the state of being inflated,
as with air or gas; distention; expansion; enlargement. Boyle.

2. The state of being puffed up, as with pride; conceit; vanity. B.
Jonson.

3. Undue expansion or increase, from overissue; -- said of currency.
[U.S.]

INFLATIONIST
In*fla"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who favors an increased or very large issue of paper money.
[U.S.]

INFLATUS
In*fla"tus, n. Etym: [L. See Inflate, v. t.]

Defn: A blowing or breathing into; inflation; inspiration.
The divine breath that blows the nostrils out To ineffable inflatus.
Mrs. Browning.

INFLECT
In*flect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inflected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inflecting.] Etym: [L. inflectere, inflexum; pref. in.- in + flectere
to bend. See Flexibl, and cf. Inflex.]

1. To turn from a direct line or course; to bend; to incline, to
deflect; to curve; to bow.
Are they [the rays of the sun] not reflected, refracted, and
inflected by one and the same principle Sir I. Newton.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: To vary, as a noun or a verb in its terminations; to decline,
as a noun or adjective, or to conjugate, as a verb.

3. To modulate, as the voice.

INFLECTED
In*flect"ed, a.

1. Bent; turned; deflected.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Having inflections; capable of, or subject to, inflection;
inflective. Inflected cycloid (Geom.), a prolate cycloid. See
Cycloid.

INFLECTION
In*flec"tion, n. Etym: [L. inflexio : cf. F. inflexion. See Inflect.]
[Written also inflecxion.]

1. The act of inflecting, or the state of being inflected.

2. A bend; a fold; a curve; a turn; a twist.

3. A slide, modulation, or accent of the voice; as, the rising and
the falling inflection.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: The variation or change which words undergo to mark case,
gender, number, comparison, tense, person, mood, voice, etc.

5. (Mus.)
(a) Any change or modification in the pitch or tone of the voice.
(b) A departure from the monotone, or reciting note, in chanting.

6. (Opt.)

Defn: Same as Diffraction. Point of inflection (Geom.), the point on
opposite sides of which a curve bends in contrary ways.

INFLECTIONAL
In*flec"tion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to inflection; having, or characterized by,
inflection. Max Müller.

INFLECTIVE
In*flect"ive, a.

1. Capable of, or pertaining to, inflection; deflecting; as, the
inflective quality of the air. Derham.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Inflectional; characterized by variation, or change in form, to
mark case, tense, etc.; subject to inflection. Inflective language
(Philol.), a language like the Greek or Latin, consisting largely of
stems with variable terminations or suffixes which were once
independent words. English is both agglutinative, as, manlike,
headache, and inflective, as, he, his, him. Cf. Agglutinative.

INFLESH
In*flesh", v. t.

Defn: To incarnate.

INFLEX
In*flex", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Flex, Inflect.]

Defn: To bend; to cause to become curved; to make crooked; to
deflect. J. Philips.

INFLEXED
In*flexed", a.

1. Turned; bent. Feltham.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Bent or turned abruptly inwards, or toward the axis, as the
petals of a flower.

INFLEXIBILITY
In*flex"i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inflexibilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being inflexible, or not capable of
being bent or changed; unyielding stiffness; inflexibleness;
rigidity; firmness of will or purpose; unbending pertinacity;
steadfastness; resoluteness; unchangeableness; obstinacy.
The inflexibility of mechanism. A. Baxter.
That grave inflexibility of soul. Churchill.
The purity and inflexibility of their faith. T. Warton.

INFLEXIBLE
In*flex"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. inflexiblis: cf. F. inflexible. See In-
not, and Flexible.]

1. Not capable of being bent; stiff; rigid; firm; unyielding.

2. Firm in will or purpose; not to be turned, changed, or altered;
resolute; determined; unyieding; inexorable; stubborn.
"Inflexibleas steel." Miltom.
Amanof upright and inflexibletemper . . . can overcome all private
fear. Addison.

3. Incapable of change; unalterable; immutable.
The nature of things is inflexible. I. Watts.

Syn.
 -- -- Unbending; unyielding; rigid; inexorable; pertinacious;
obstinate; stubborn; unrelenting.

INFLEXIBLENESS
In*flex"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inflexible; inflexibility;
rigidity; firmness.

INFLEXIBLY
In*flex"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an inflexible manner.

INFLEXION
In*flex"ion, n.

Defn: Inflection.

INFLEXIVE
In*flex"ive, a.

1. Inflective.
"Inflexive endings." W. E. Jelf.

2. Inflexible. [R.] "Foes inflexive." Chapman.

INFLEXURE
In*flex"ure, n.

Defn: An inflection; a bend or fold. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

INFLICT
In*flict", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inflicted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inflicting.] Etym: [L. inflictus, p.p. of infligere to strike on, to
inflict; pref. in- in, on + fligere to strike. Cf. Flail.]

Defn: To give, cause, or produce by striking, or as if by striking;
to apply forcibly; to lay or impose; to send; to cause to bear, feel,
or suffer; as, to inflict blows; to inflict a wound with a dagger; to
inflict severe pain by ingratitude; to inflict punishment on an
offender; to inflict the penalty of death on a criminal.
What heart could wish, what hand inflict, this dire disgrace Drygen.
The persecution and the pain That man inflicts on infero-ior kinds.
Cowper.

INFLICTER
In*flict"er, n.

Defn: One who inflicts.
Godis the sole and immadiate inflicter of such strokes. South.

INFLICTION
In*flic"tion, n. Etym: [L. inflictio: cf. F. infliction.]

1. The act of inflicting or imposing; as, the infliction of torment,
or of punishment.

2. That which is inflicted or imposed, as punishment, disgrace,
calamity, etc.
His severest inflictions are in themselves acts of justice and
righteousness. Rogers.

INFLICTIVE
In*flict"ive, a. Etym: [Cf.F. inflictif.]

Defn: Causing infliction; acting as an infliction. Whitehead.

INFLORESCENCE
In`flo*res"cence, n. Etym: [L. inflorescens, p.pr. of inflorescere to
begin to blossom; pref. in- in + florescere to begin to blossom:
cf.F. inflorescence. See Florescent.]

1. A flowering; the putting forth and unfolding of blossoms.

2. (Bot.)
(a) The mode of flowering, or the general arrangement and disposition
of the flowers with reference to the axis, and to each other.
(b) An axis on which all the flower buds.
Inflorescence affords an excellent characteristic mark in
distinguishing the species of plants. Milne.
Centrifugal inflorescence, determinate inflorescence.
 -- Centripetal inflorescence, indeterminate inflorescence. See under
Determinate, and Indeterminate.

INFLOW
In*flow", v. i.

Defn: To flow in. Wiseman.

INFLUENCE
In"flu*ence, n. Etym: [F. influence, fr. L. influens, -entis, p.pr.
See Influent, and cf. Influenza.]

1. A flowing in or upon; influx. [Obs.]
God hath his influence into the very essence of all things. Hooker.

2. Hence, in general, the bringing about of an effect, phusical or
moral, by a gradual process; controlling power quietly exerted;
agency, force, or tendency of any kind which the sun exerts on animal
and vegetable life; the influence of education on the mind; the
influence, according to astrologers,of the stars over affairs.
Astrologers call the evil influences of the stars,evil aspects.
Bacon.
Cantsthou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, or loose the bands
of Orion Job xxxviii. 31.
She said : influence bad " Spenser.

3. Power or authority arising from elevated station, excelence of
character or intellect, wealth, etc.; reputation; acknowledged
ascendency; as, he is a man of influence in the community.
Such influence hath your excellency. Sir P. Sidney.

4. (Elec.)

Defn: Induction.

Syn.
 -- Control; persuasion; ascendency; sway; power; authority;
supremacy; mastery; management; restraint; character; reputation;
prestige.

INFLUENCE
In"flu*ence, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Influenced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Influencing.]

Defn: To control or move by power, physical or moral; to affect by
gentle action; to exert an influence upon; to modify, bias, or sway;
to move; to persuade; to induce.
Theseexperiments succeed after the same manner in vacuo as in the
open air,and therefore are not influenced by the weight or pressure
of the atmosphere. Sir I. Newton.
This standing revelation . . . is sufficient to influence their faith
and practice, if they attend. Attebury.
The principle which influenced their obedience has lost its efficacy.
Rogers.

INFLUENCER
In"flu*en*cer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, influences.

INFLUENCIVE
In"flu*en*cive, a.

Defn: Tending toinfluence; influential.

INFLUENT
In"flu*ent, a. Etym: [L. influens, -entis, p. pr. of influere,
influxum, to flow in; pref. in- in + fluere to flow. See Fluid.]

1. Flowing in. "With influent tide." Cowper. "Influent odors." Mrs.
Browning.

2. Exerting influence; influential. [Obs.]
I find no office by name assigned unto Dr.Cox, who was virtually
influent upon all, and most active. Fuller.

INFLUENTIAL
In`flu*en"tial, a. Etym: [See Influence.]

Defn: Exerting or possessing influence or power; potent; efficacious;
effective; strong; having authority or ascendency; as, an influential
man, station, argument, etc.
A very influential Gascon prefix. Earle.

INFLUENTIALLY
In`flu*en"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In an influential manner.

INFLUENZA
In`flu*en"za, n. Etym: [It. influenza influence, an epidemic formerly
attributed by astrologers to the influence of the heavenly bodies,
influenza. See Influence.] (Med.)

Defn: An epidemic affection characterized by acute nasal catarrh, or
by inflammation of the throat or the bronchi, and usually accompanied
by fever.

INFLUX
In"flux`, n. Etym: [L. influxus, fr. influere, influxum, to flow in:
cf. F. influx. See Influent.]

1. The act of flowing in; as, an influx of light.

2. A coming in; infusion; intromission; introduction; importation in
abundance; also, that which flows or comes in; as, a great influx of
goods into a country, or an influx of gold and silver.
The influx of food into the Celtic region, however, was far from
keeping pace with the influx of consumers. Macaulau.
The general influx of Greek into modern languages. Earle.

3. Influence; power. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

INFLUXION
In*flux"ion, n. Etym: [L. influxio : cf. F. influxion.]

Defn: A flowing in; infusion. [R.] Bacon.

INFLUXIOUS
In*flux"ious, a.

Defn: Influential. [Obs.]

INFLUXIVE
In*flux"ive, a.

Defn: Having a tendency to flow in; having influence; influential.
[R.] Holdsworth.

INFLUXIVELY
In*flux"ive*ly, adv.

Defn: By influxion. [R.]

INFOLD
In*fold" (n-fld''), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Infolded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Infolding.] Etym: [Pref. in- in + fold.] [Written also enfold.]

1. To wrap up or cover with folds; to envelop; to inwrap; to inclose;
to involve.
Gilded tombs do worms infold. Shak.
Infold his limbs in bands. Blackmore.

2. To clasp with the arms; to embrace.
Noble Banquo, . . . let me infold thee, And hold thee to my heart.
Shak.

INFOLDMENT
In*fold"ment, n.

Defn: The act of infolding; the state of being infolded.

INFOLIATE
In*fo"li*ate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + L. folium leaf.]

Defn: To cover or overspread with, or as with, leaves. [R.] Howell.

INFORM
In*form", a. Etym: [L. informis; pref. in- not + forma form, shape:
cf. F. informe]

Defn: Without regular form; shapeless; ugly; deformed. Cotton.

INFORM
In*form", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Informed; p. pr. & vb. n. Informing.]
Etym: [OE. enformen, OF. enformer, F. informer. L. informare; pref.
in- in + formare to form, share, fr. forma form. See Form.]

1. To give form or share to; to give vital ororganizing power to; to
give life to; to imbue and actuate with vitality; to animate; to
mold; to figure; to fashion.
"The informing Word." Coleridge.
Let others better mold the running mass Of metals, and inform the
breathing brass. Dryden.
Breath informs this fleeting frame. Prior.
Breathes in our soul,informs our mortal part. Pope.

2. To communicate knowledge to; to make known to; to acquaint; to
advise; to instruct; to tell; to notify; to enlighten; -- usually
followed by of.
For he would learn their business secretly, And then inform his
master hastily. Spenser.
I am informed thoroughky of the cause. Shak.

3. To communicate a knowledge of facts to,by way of accusation; to
warn against anybody.
Tertullus . . . informed the governor against Paul. Acts xxiv. 1.

Syn.
 -- To acquaint; apprise; tell; teach; instruct; enlighten; animate;
fashion.

INFORM
In*form", v. t.

1. To take form; to become visible or manifest; to appear. [Obs.]
It is the bloody business which informs Thus to mine eyes. Shak.

2. To give intelligence or information; to tell. Shak.
He might either teach in the same manner,or inform how he had been
taught. Monthly Rev.
To inform against, to communicate facts by way of accusation against;
to denounce; as, two persons came to the magistrate, and informed
against A.

INFORMAL
In*form"al, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + formal.]

1. Not in the regular, usual, or established form; not according to
official, conventional, prescribed, or customary forms or rules;
irregular; hence, without ceremony; as, an informal writting,
proceeding, or visit.

2. Deranged in mind; out of one's senses. [Obs.]
These poor informal women. Shak.

INFORMALITY
In`for*mal"i*ty, n.; pl. Informalities (.

1. The state of being informal; want of regular, prescribed, or
customary form; as, the informality of legal proceedings.

2. An informal, unconventional, or unofficial act or proceeding;
something which is not in proper or prescribed form or does not
conform to the established rule.

INFORMALLY
In*form"al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an informal manner.

INFORMANT
In*form"ant, n. Etym: [L. informans, -antis, p.pr. of informare. See
Inform, v. t.]

1. One who, or that which, informs, animates, or vivifies. [Obs.]
Glanvill.

2. One who imparts information or instruction.

3. One who offers an accusation; an informer. See Informer. [Obs. or
R.]
It was the last evidence of the kind; the informant was hanged.
Burke.

INFORMATION
In`for*ma"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. informatio representation,
cinception. See Inform, v. t.]

1. The act of informing, or communicating knowledge or intelligence.
The active informations of the intellect. South.

2. News, advice, or knowledge, communicated by others or obtained by
personal study and investigation; intelligence; knowledge derived
from reading, observation, or instruction.
Larger opportunities of information. Rogers.
He should get some information in the subject he intends to handle.
Swift.

3. (Law)

Defn: A proceeding in the nature of a prosecution for some offens
against the government, instituted and prosecuted, really or
nominally, by some authorized public officer on behalt of the
government. It differs from an indictment in criminal cases chiefly
in not being based on the finding of a grand juri. See Indictment.

INFORMATIVE
In*form"a*tive, a.

Defn: Having power to inform, animate, or vivify. Dr. H. More.

INFORMATORY
In*form"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Full of, or conveying, information; instructive. [R.] London
Spectator.

INFORMED
In*formed" (n-frmd''), a.

Defn: Unformed or ill-formed; deformed; shapeless. [Obs.] Spenser.
Informed stars. See under Unformed.

INFORMER
In*form"er, n. Etym: [From Inform,v.]

1. One who informs, animates, or inspires. [Obs.] Thomson.
Nature, informer of the poet's art. Pope.

2. One who informs, or imparts knowledge or news.

3. (Law)

Defn: One who informs a magistrate of violations of law; one who
informs against another for violation of some law or penal statute.
Common informer (Law), one who habitually gives information of the
violation of penal statutes, with a view to a prosecution therefor.
Bouvier. Wharton.

INFORMIDABLE
In*for"mi*da*ble, a. Etym: [L. informidabilis. See In- not, and
Formidable.]

Defn: Not formidable; not to be feared or dreaded. [Obs.] "Foe not
informidable." Milton.

INFORMITY
In*form"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. informitas. See Inform, a.]

Defn: Want of regular form; shapelessness. [Obs.]

INFORMOUS
In*form"ous, a. Etym: [See Inform, a.]

Defn: Of irregular form; shapeless. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

INFORTUNATE
In*for"tu*nate, a. Etym: [L. infortunatus.]

Defn: Unlucky; unfortunate. [Obs.] Shak.
"A most infortynate chance." Howell.
- In*for"tu*nate*ly, adv. [Obs.]

INFORTUNE
In*for"tune, n. Etym: [L. infortunium. See In- not, and Fortune.]

Defn: Misfortune. [Obs.] Chaucer.

INFORTUNED
In*for"tuned, a.

Defn: Unfortunate. [Obs.]
I, woeful wretch and infortuned wight. Chaucer.

INFOUND
In*found", v. t. Etym: [L. infundere to pour in. See Infuse.]

Defn: To pour in; to infuse. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

INFRA
In*"fra, adv. Etym: [L. Cf. Inferior.]

Defn: Below; beneath; under; after; -- often used as a prefix.

INFRA-AXILLARY
In`fra-ax"il*la*ry, a. Etym: [Infra + axillary.] (Bot.)

Defn: Situated below the axil, as a bud.

INFRABRANCHIAL
In`fra*bran"chi*al, a. Etym: [Infra + branchial.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Below the gills; -- applied to the ventral portion of the
pallial chamber in the lamellibranchs.

INFRACLAVICULAR
In`fra*cla*vic"u*lar, a. Etym: [Infra + clavicular.] (Anat.)

Defn: Below the clavicle; as, the infraclavicular fossa.

INFRACT
In*fract" (n-fr*kt''), a. Etym: [L. infractus; pref. in- not +
fractus. p.p. of frangere to break.]

Defn: Not broken or fractured; unharmed; whole. [Obs.] Chapman.

INFRACT
In*fract", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Infracted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Infracting.] Etym: [L. infractus, p.p. of of infringere. See
Infringe.]

Defn: To break; to infringe. [R.] Thomson.

INFRACTIBLE
In*fract"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being broken.[R.]

INFRACTION
In*frac"tion, n. Etym: [L. infractio: cf. F. infraction.]

Defn: The act of infracting or breaking; breach; violation;
nonobservance; infringement; as, an infraction of a treaty, compact,
rule, or law. I. Watts.

INFRACTOR
In*fract"or, n. Etym: [Cf. F. infracteur.]

Defn: One who infracts or infringes; a violator; a breaker.

INFRAGRANT
In*fra"grant, a.

Defn: Not fragrant.

INFRAHYOID
In`fra*hy"oid, a. Etym: [Infra + hyoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Hyosternal (a).

INFRALABIAL
In`fra*la"bi*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Below the lower lip; -- said of certain scales of reptiles and
fishes.

INFRALAPSARIAN
In`fra*lap*sa"ri*an, n. Etym: [Infra + lapse: cf. F. infralapsaire.
See Lapse.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of that class of Calvinists who consider the decree of
election as contemplating the apostasy as past and the elect as being
at the time of election in a fallen and guilty state; -- opposed to
Supralapsarian. The former considered the election of grace as a
remedy for an existing evil; the latter regarded the fall as a part
of God's original purpose in regard to men.

INFRALAPSARIAN
In`fra*lap*sa"ri*an, a. (Theor.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Infralapsarians, or to their doctrine.

INFRALAPSARIANISM
In`fra*lap*sa"ri*an*ism, n. (Theor.)

Defn: The doctrine, belief, or principles of the Inralapsarians.

INFRAMARGINAL
In`fra*mar"gin*al, a. Etym: [Infra + marginal.]

Defn: Below the margin; submarginal; as, an inframarginal convolution
of the brain.

INFRAMAXILLARY
In`fra*max"il*la*ry, a. Etym: [Infra + maxillary.] (Anat.)
(a) Under the lower jaw; submaxillary; as, the inframaxillary nerve.
(b) Of or pertaining to the lower iaw.

INFRAMEDIAN
In`fra*me"di*an, a. Etym: [Infra + median.] (Zoölogical Geog.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the interval or zone along the sea bottom,
at the depth of between fifty and one hundred fathoms. E. Forbes.

INFRAMUNDANE
In`fra*mun"dane, a. Etym: [Infra + mundane.]

Defn: Lying or situated beneath the world.

INFRANCHISE
In*fran"chise, v. t.

Defn: See Enfranchise.

INFRANGIBILITY
In*fran`gi*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being infrangible; infrangibleness.

INFRANGIBLE
In*fran"gi*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + grangible: cf.F.
infrangible.]

1. Not capable of being broken or separated into parts; as,
infrangible atoms.
[He] link'd their fetlocks with a golden band Infrangible. Pope.

2. Not to be infringed or violated.

INFRANGIBLENESS
In*fran"gi*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being infrangible; infrangibility.

INFRAOCULAR
In`fra*oc"u*lar, a. Etym: [Infra + ocular.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Situated below the eyes, as the antenna of certain insects.

INFRAORBITAL
In`fra*or"bit*al, a. Etym: [Infra + orbital.] (Anat.)

Defn: Below the orbit; as, the infraorbital foramen; the infraorbital
nerve.

INFRAPOSE
In`fra*pose", v. t. Etym: [Infra + pose.]

Defn: To place under or beneath. [R.]

INFRAPOSITION
In`fra*po*si"tion, n. Etym: [Infra + position.]

Defn: A situation or position beneath. Kane.

INFRA-RED
In`fra-red", a.  [Infra- + red.] (Physics)

Defn: Lying outside the visible spectrum at its red end; -- said of
rays less refrangible than the extreme red rays.

INFRASCAPULAR
In`fra*scap"u*lar, a. Etym: [Infra + scapular.] (Anat.)

Defn: Beneath the scapula, or shoulder blade; subscapular.

INFRASPINAL
In`fra*spi"nal, a. Etym: [Infra + spinal.] (Anat.)
(a) Below the vertebral column, subvertebral.
(b) Below the spine; infraspinate; infraspinous.

INFRASPINATE; INFRASPINOUS
In`fra*spi"nate, In`fra*spi*nous, a. Etym: [Infra + spinate,
spinous.] (Anat.)

Defn: Below the spine; infraspinal; esp., below the spine of the
scapula; as, the infraspinous fossa; the infraspinate muscle.

INFRASTAPEDIAL
In`fra*sta*pe"di*al, a. Etym: [Infra + stapedial.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, which
in many animals projects below the connection with the stapes.
 -- n.

Defn: The infrastapedial part of the columella.

INFRASTERNAL
In`fra*ster"nal, a. Etym: [Infra + sternal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Below the sternum; as, the infrasternal depression, or pit of
the stomach.

INFRATEMPORAL
In`fra*tem"po*ral, a. Etym: [Infra + temporal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Below the temple; below the temporal bone.

INFRATERRITORIAL
In`fra*ter"ri*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [Infra + territorial.]

Defn: Within the territory of a state. Story.

INFRATROCHLEAR
In`fra*troch"le*ar, a. Etym: [Infra + trochlear.] (Anat.)

Defn: Below a trochlea, or pulley; -- applied esp. to one of the
subdivisions of the trigeminal nerve.

INFREQUENCE; INFREQUENCY
In*fre"quence, In*fre"quen*cy, n. Etym: [L. infrequentia scantiness :
cf. F. infrequence.]

1. The state of rarely occuring; uncommonness; rareness; as, the
infrquence of his visits.

2. The state of not being frequented; solitude; isolation;
retirement; seclusion. [R.]
The solitude and infrequency of the place. Bp. Hall.

INFREQUENT
In*fre"quent, a. Etym: [L. infrquens : cf.F. infrequent. See In- not,
and Frequent.]

Defn: Seldom happening or occurring; rare; uncommon; unusual.
The act whereof is at this day infrequent or out of use among all
sorts of men. Sir T. Elyot.

INFREQUENTLY
In*fre"quent*ly, adv.

Defn: Not frequently; rarely.

INFRIGIDATE
In*frig"i*date, v. t. Etym: [L. infrigidatus, p.p. of infrigidare to
chill. See 1st In-, and Frigid.]

Defn: To chill; to make cold; to cool. [Obs.] Boyle.

INFRIGIDATION
In*frig`i*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. infrigidatio.]

Defn: The act of chilling or causing to become cold; a chilling;
coldness; congelation. [Obs.] Boyle.

INFRINGE
In*fringe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Infringed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Infringing.] Etym: [L. infringere; pref. in- in + frangere to break.
See Fraction, and cf. Infract .]

1. To break; to violate; to transgress; to neglect to fulfill or
obey; as, to infringe a law or contract.
If the first that did the edict infringe, Had answered for his deed.
Shak.
The peace . . . was infringed by Appius Claudius. Golding.

2. To hinder; to destroy; as, to infringe efficacy; to infringe
delight or power. [Obs.] Hooker.

INFRINGE
In*fringe", v. i.

1. To break, violate, or transgress some contract, rule, or law; to
injure; to offend.

2. To encroach; to trespass; -- followed by on or upon; as, to
infringe upon the rights of another.

INFRINGEMENT
In*fringe"ment, n.

1. The act of infringing; breach; violation; nonfulfillment; as, the
infringement of a treaty, compact, law, or constitution.
The punishing of this infringement is proper to that jurisdiction
against which the contempt is. Clarendon.

2. An encroachment on a patent, copyright, or other special
privilege; a trespass.

INFRINGER
In*frin"ger, n.

Defn: One who infringes or violates; a violator. Strype.

INFRUCTUOSE
In*fruc"tu*ose", a. Etym: [L.infructuosus. See In- not, and Fruit.]

Defn: Not producing fruit; unfruitful; unprofitable. [R.] T. Adams.

INFRUGAL
In*fru"gal, a.

Defn: Not frugal; wasteful; as, an infrugal expense of time. J.
Goodman.

INFRUGIFEROUS
In`fru*gif"er*ous, a.

Defn: Not bearing fruit; not fructiferous.

INFUCATE
In`fu*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. infucatus painted; pref. in- in + fucare
to paint, dye. See Fucate.]

Defn: To stain; to paint; to daub.

INFUCATION
In`fu*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act of painting or staining, especially of painting the
face.

INFULA
In"fu*la, n.; pl. Infule. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A sort of fillet worn by dignitaries, priests, and others among
the ancient Romans. It was generally white.

INFUMATE
In"fu*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Infumated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Infumating.] Etym: [L.infumatus, p.p. of infumare to infumate; pref.
in- in + fumare to smoke, fr. fumus smoke.]

Defn: To dry by exposing to smoke; to expose to smoke.

INFUMATED
In"fu*ma`ted, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Clouded; having a cloudy appearance.

INFUMATION
In`fu*ma"tion, n.

Defn: Act of drying in smoke.

INFUMED
In*fumed", a.

Defn: Dried in smoke; smoked.

INFUNDIBULAR; INFUNDIBULATE
In`fun*dib"u*lar, In`fun*dib"u*late, a. Etym: [See Infundibulum.]

Defn: Having the form of a funnel; pertaining to an infundibulum.
Infundibulate Bryozoa (Zoöl.),a group of marine Bryozoa having a
circular arrangement of the tentacles upon the disk.

INFUNDIBULIFORM
In`fun*dib"u*li*form, a. Etym: [L. infundibulum funnel + -form: cf.
F. infundibuliforme.]

1. Having the form of a funnel or cone; funnel-shaped.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Funnelform.

INFUNDIBULUM
In`fun*dib"u*lum, n.; pl. L. Infundibula, E. Infundibulums. Etym:
[L., a funnel, from infundere to pour in or into. See Infuse.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A funnel-shaped or dilated organ or part; as, the infundibulum
of the brain, a hollow, conical process, connecting the floor of the
third ventricle with the pituitary body; the infundibula of the
lungs, the enlarged terminations of the bronchial tubes.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A central cavity in the Ctenophora, into which the gastric sac
leads.
(b) The siphon of Cephalopoda. See Cephalopoda.

INFUNERAL
In*fu"ner*al, v. t.

Defn: To inter with funeral rites; to bury. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.

INFURCATION
In`fur*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- in + L. furca fork.]

Defn: A forked exlpansion or divergence; a bifurcation; a branching.
Craig.

INFURIATE
In*fu"ri*ate, a. Etym: [It. infuriato, p. p. of infuriare. See
Infuriate, v. t.]

Defn: Enraged; rading; furiously angry; infuriated. Milton.
Inflamed beyond the most infuriate wrath. Thomson.

INFURIATE
In*fu"ri*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Infuriated (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Infuriating] Etym: [It. infuriato, p. p. of infuriare; pref. in- (L.
in) + furia fury, L. furia. See Fury.]

Defn: To render furious; to enrage; to exasperate.
Those curls of entangled snakes with which Erinys is said to have
infuriated Athemas and Ino. Dr. H. More.

INFURIATED
In*fu"ri*a`ted, a.

Defn: Enraged; furious.

INFUSCATE
In*fus"cate, v. t. Etym: [L. infuscatus, p. p. of infuscare; pref.
in- in + fuscare to make dark, fr. fuscus dark.]

Defn: To darken; to make black; to obscure.

INFUSCATED
In*fus"ca*ted, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Darkened with a blackish tinge.

INFUSCATION
In`fus*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act of darkening, or state of being dark; darkness;
obscurity. Johnson.

INFUSE
In*fuse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Infused; p. pr. & vb. n. Infusing.]
Etym: [L. infusus, p.p. of infundere to pour in or into; pref. in- in
+ fundere to pour: cf. F. infuser. See Found to cast.]

1. To pour in, as a liquid; to pour (into or upon); to shed.
That strong Circean liquor cease to infuse. Denham.

2. To instill, as principles or qualities; to introduce.
That souls of animals infuse themselves Into the trunks of men. Shak.
Why should he desire to have qualities infused into his son which
himself never possessd Swift.

3. To inspire; to inspirit or animate; to fill; -- followed by with.
Infuse his breast with magnanimity. Shak.
Infusing him with self and vain conceit. Shak.

4. To steep in water or other fluid without boiling, for the propose
of extracting medicinal qualities; to soak.
One scruple of dried leaves is infused in ten ounces of warm water.
Coxe.

5. To make an infusion with, as an ingredient; to tincture; to
saturate. [R.] Bacon.

INFUSE
In*fuse, n.

Defn: Infusion. [Obs.] Spenser.

INFUSER
In*fus"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, infuses.

INFUSIBILITY
In*fu`si*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [From Infuse.]

Defn: Capability of being infused, pouredin, or instilled.

INFUSIBILITY
In*fu`si*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + fusibility: cf. F.
infusibilité.]

Defn: Incapability or difficulty of being fused, melted, or
dissolved; as, the infusibility of carbon.

INFUSIBLE
In*fu"si*ble, a. Etym: [From Infuse, v.]

Defn: Capable of being infused.
Doctrines being infusible into all. Hammond.

INFUSIBLE
In*fu"si*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + fusible: cf. F. infusible.]

Defn: Not fusible; incapble or difficalt of fusion, or of being
dissolved or melted. Sir T. Browne.
The best crucibles are made of Limoges earth, which seems absolutely
infusible. Lavoisier (Trans. ).

INFUSIBLENESS
In*fu"si*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Infusibility.

INFUSION
In*fu"sion, n. Etym: [L. infusio a pouring in: cf. F. infusion. See
Infuse, v. t.]

1. The act of infusing, pouring in, or instilling; instillation; as,
the infusion of good principles into the mind; the infusion of ardor
or zeal.
Our language has received innumerable elegancies and improvements
from that infusion of Hebraisms. Addison.

2. That which is infused; suggestion; inspiration.
His folly and his wisdom are of his oun growth, not the echo or
infusion of other men. Swift.

3. The act of plunging or dipping into a fluid; immersion. [Obs.]
"Baptism by infusion." Jortin.

4. (Pharmacy)
(a) The act or process of steeping or soaking any substance in water
in order to extract its virtues.
(b) The liquid extract obtained by this process.
Sips meek infusion of a milder herb. Cowper.

INFUSIONISM
In*fu"sion*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine that the soul is preexistent to the body, and is
infused into it at conception or birth; -- opposed to tradicianism
and creationism.

INFUSIVE
In*fu"sive, a.

Defn: Having the power of infusion; inspiring; influencing.
The infusive force of Spirit on man. Thomson.

INFUSORIA
In`fu*so"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.; -- so called because found in
infusions which are left exposed to the air for a time. See Infuse.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the classes of Protozoa, including a large number of
species, all of minute size.

Note: They are found in all seas, lakes, ponds, and streams, as well
as in infusions of organic matter exposed to the air. They are
distinguished by having vibrating lashes or cilia, with which they
obtain their food and swim about.They are devided into the orders
Flagellata, Ciliata, and Tentaculifera. See these words in the
Vocabulary. Formely the term Infusoria was applied to all microscopic
organisms found in water, including many minute plants, belonging to
the diatoms, as well as minute animals belonging to various classes,
as the Rotifera, which are worms; and the Rhizopoda, which constitute
a distinct class of Protozoa. Fossil Infusoria are mostly the
siliceous shells of diatoms; sometimes they are siliceous skeletons
of Radiolaria, or the calcareous shells of Foraminifera.

INFUSORIAL
In`fu*so"ri*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Infusoria; composed of, or containing,
Infusoria; as, infusorial earth. Infusorial earth (Geol.), a deposit
of fine, usually white, siliceous material, composed mainly of the
shells of the microscopic plants called diatoms. It is used in
polishing powder, and in the manufacture of dynamite.

INFUSORIAN
In`fu*so"ri*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Infusoria.

INFUSORY
In*fu"so*ry, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Infusorial.

INFUSORY
In*fu"so*ry, n.; pl. Infusories (. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Infusoria; -- usually in the pl.

-ING
-ing.

1. Etym: [For OE. -and, -end, -ind, AS. -ende; akin to Goth. -and-,
L. -ant-, -ent-, Gr.

Defn: A suffix used to from present participles; as, singing,
playing.

2. Etym: [OE. -ing, AS. -ing, -ung.]

Defn: A suffix used to form nouns from verbs, and signifying the act
of; the result of the act; as, riding, dying, feeling. It has also a
secondary collective force; as, shipping, clothing.

Note: The Old English ending of the present participle and verbal
noun became confused, both becoming -ing.

3. Etym: [AS. -ing.]

Defn: A suffix formerly used to form diminutives; as, lording,
farthing.

ING
Ing, n. Etym: [AS. ing.]

Defn: A pasture or meadow; generally one lying low, near a river.
[Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

INGANNATION
In`gan*na"tion, n. Etym: [LL. ingannare to decieve.]

Defn: Cheat; deception. [Obs.] Sir T. Brown.

INGATE
In"gate` (, n.

1. Entrance; ingress. [Obs.]
Which hath in charge the ingate of the year. Spenser.

2. (Fonding)

Defn: The aperture in a mold for pouring in the metal; the gate.
Simmonds.

INGATHERING
In"gath`er*ing, n.

Defn: The act or business of gathering or collecting anything;
especially, the gathering of the fruits of the earth; harvest.
Thou shalt keep . . . the feast of ingathering. Ex. xxii. 16.

INGELABLE
In*gel"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not congealable.

INGEMINATE
In*gem"i*nate, a. Etym: [L. ingeminatus, p. p.]

Defn: Redoubled; repeated. Jer. Taylor.

INGEMINATE
In*gem"i*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ingeminated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ingeminating.] Etym: [L. ingeminatus, p. p. of ingeminare to double;
pref. in- in + geminare. See Geminate.]

Defn: To redouble or repeat; to reiterate. Clarendon.
. . . She yet ingeminates The last of sounds, and what she hears
relates. Sandys.

INGEMINATION
In*gem`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: Repetition; reduplication; reiteration. De Quincey.
That Sacred ingemination, Amen, Amen. Featley.
Happiness with an echo or ingemination. Holdsworth.

INGENA
In*ge"na, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gorilla.

INGENDER
In*gen"der, v. t.

Defn: See Engender.

INGENERABILLTY
In*gen`er*a*bil"l*ty, n.

Defn: Incapacity of being engendered or produced. Cudworth.

INGENERABLE
In*gen"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + generable: cf. F.
ingenerable.]

Defn: Incapble of being engendered or produced; original. Holland.

INGENERABLY
In*gen"er*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an ingenerable manner.

INGENERATE
In*gen"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. ingeneratus, p. p. of ingenerare. See
engender]

Defn: Generated within; inborn; innate; as, ingenerate powers of
body. W. Wotton.
Those virtues were rather feigned and affected . . . than true
qualities ingenerate in his judgment. Bacon.

INGENERATE
In*gen"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ingenerat; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ingenerating.]

Defn: To generate or produce within; to begete; to engener; to
occasion; to cause. Mede.
Those noble habits are ingenerated in the soul. Sir M. Hale.

INGENERATION
In*gen`er*a"tion, n.

Defn: Act of ingenerating.

INGENIATE
In*ge"ni*ate, v. t. & i. Etym: [See Ingenious.]

Defn: To invent; to contrive. [Obs.] Daniel.

INGENIE
In"ge*nie, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Ingeny.

INGENIOSITY
In*ge`ni*os"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. ingeniositas.]

Defn: Ingenuity; skill; cunning. [Obs.] Cudworth.

INGENIOUS
In*gen"ious, a. Etym: [L. ingeniosus, fr. ingenium innate or natural
quality, natural capacity, genius: cf. F. ingénieux. See Engine.]

1. Possessed of genius, or the faculty of invention; skillful or
promp to invent; having an aptitude to contrive, or to form new
combinations; as, an ingenious author, mechanic.
A man . . . very wise and ingenious in feats of war. Hakluyt.
Thou, king, send out For torturers ingenious. Shak.
The more ingenious men are, the more apt are they to trouble
themselves. Sir W. Temple.

2. Proseeding from, pertaining to, or characterized by, genius or
ingenuity; of curious design, structure, or mechanism; as, an
ingenious model, or machine; an ingenious scheme, contrivance, etc.
Thus men go wrong with an ingenious skill. Cowper.

3. Witty; shrewd; adroit; keen; sagacious; as, an ingenious reply.

4. Mental; intellectual. [Obs.]
A course of learning and ingenious studies. Shak.

INGENIOUSLY
In*gen"ious*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ingenious manner; with ingenuity; skillfully; wittily;
cleverly.
"Too ingeniously politic." Sir W. Temple.

INGENIOUSNESS
In*gen"ious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being ingenious; ingenuity.

INGENITE; INGENIT
In*gen"ite In*gen"it, a. Etym: [L. ingenitus, p. p. of ingignere to
instill by birthor nature; pref. in- + gignere to beget.]

Defn: Innate; inborn; inbred; inherent; native; ingenerate. [Obs.]
It is naturalor ingenite, which comes by some defect of the organs
and overmuch brain. Burton.

INGENUE
In`gé`nue" (aN`zhay`nus"), n.; pl. -nues (#). [F., fem. of ingénu
ingenious.]

Defn: An ingenuous or naïve girl or young woman, or an actress
representing such a person.

INGENUITY
In`ge*nu"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. ingenuitas ingenuousness: cf. F.
ingénuité. See Ingenuous.]

1. The quality or power of ready invention; quickness or acuteness in
forming new combinations; ingeniousness; skill in devising or
combining.
All the means which human ingenuity has contrived. Blair.

2. Curiousness, or cleverness in design or contrivance; as, the
ingenuity of a plan, or of mechanism.
He gives . . . To artist ingenuity and skill. Cowper.

3. Openness of heat; ingeniuousness. [Obs.]
The stings and remores of natural ingenuity, a principle that men
scarcely ever shake off, as long as they carry anything of human
nature about them. South.

Syn.
 -- Inventiveness; ingeniousness; skill; cunning; cleverness; genius.
 -- Ingenuity, Cleverness. Ingenuity is a form of genius, and
cleverness of talent. The former implies invention, the letter a
peculiar dexterity and readiness of execution. Sir James Mackintosh
remarks that the English overdo in the use of the word clever and
cleverness, applying them loosely to almost every form of
intellectual ability.

INGENUOUS
In*gen"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. ingenuus inborn, innate, freeborn, noble,
frank; pref. in- in + the root of gignere to beget. See Genius, and
cf. Ingenious.]

1. Of honorable extraction; freeborn; noble; as, ingenuous blood of
birth.

2. Noble; generous; magnanimous; honorable; uprigth; high-minded; as,
an ingenuous ardor or zeal.
If an ingenuous detestation of falsehood be but carefully and early
instilled, that is the true and genuin method to obviate dishonesty.
Locke.

3. Free from reserve, disguise, equivocation, or dissimulation; open;
frank; sa, an ingenuous man; an ingenuous declaration, confession,
etc.
Sensible in myself . . . what a burden it is for me, who would be
ingenuous, to be loaded with courtesies which he hath not the least
hope to requite or deserve. Fuller.

4. Ingenious. [Obs.] Shak.

Note: (Formerly) printers did not discriminate between . . .
ingenuous and ingenious, and these words were used or rather printed
interchangeably almost to the begining of the eighteenth century. G.
P. Marsh.

Syn.
 -- Open; frank; unreserved; artless; plain; sincere; candid; fair;
noble; generous.
 -- Ingenuous, Open, Frank. One who is open speaks out at once what
is uppermost in his mind; one who is frank does it from a natural
boldness, or dislike of self-restraint; one who is ingenuous is
actuated by a native simplicity and artlessness, which make him
willing to confess faults, and make known his sentiments without
reserve. See Candid.

INGENUOUSLY
In*gen"u*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ingenuous manner; openly; fairly; candidly; artlessly.
Being required to explane himself, he ingeniously confessed. Ludlow.

INGENUOUSNESS
In*gen"u*ous*ness, n.

1. The state or quality of being ingenuous; openness of heart;
frankness.

2. Ingenuity. [Obs.] Fuller.

INGENY
In"ge*ny, n. Etym: [L. ingenium. See Ingenious.]

Defn: Natural gift or talent; ability; wit; ingenuity. [Obs.]
[Written also ingenie.] Becon.

INGERMINATE
In*ger"mi*nate, v. t.

Defn: To cause to germinate.

INGEST
In*gest", v. t. Etym: [L. ingenium, p. p. of ingerere to put in;
pref. in- in + gerere to bear.]

Defn: To take into, or as into, the stomach or alimentary canal. Sir
T. Browne.

INGESTA
In*ges"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Ingest.] (Physiol.)

Defn: That which is introduced into the body by the stomach or
alimentary canal; -- opposed to egesta.

INGESTION
In*ges"tion, n. Etym: [L. ingestio: cf. F. ingestion.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The act of taking or putting into the stomach; as, the
ingestion of milk or other food.

INGHALLA
In*ghal"la, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The reedbuck of South Africa. [Written also ingali.]

INGIRT
In*girt", v. t. Etym: [See Ingirt.]

Defn: To encircle to gird; to engirt.
The wreath is ivy that ingirts our beams. Drayton.

INGIRT
In*girt", a.

Defn: Surrounded; encircled. Fenton.

INGLE
In"gle, n. Etym: [Gael. & Ir. aingeali fire; cf. L. igniculusi spark,
dim. of ignis fire. Cf. Ignite.]

Defn: Flame; blaze; a fire; a fireplace. [Obs. or Scot.] Burns. Ingle
nock, the chimney corner.
 -- Ingle side, Ingle cheek, the fireside.

INGLE
In"gle, n. Etym: [Written also engle, enghle: cf. Gael. & Ir. aingeal
an angel. Cf. Engle.]

Defn: A paramour; a favourite; a sweetheart; an engle. [Obs.] Toone.

INGLE
In"gle, v. t.

Defn: To cajole or coax; to wheedle. See Engle. [Obs.]

INGLOBATE
In*glo"bate, a.

Defn: In the form of a globe or sphere; -- applied to nebulous matter
collected into a sphere by the force of gravitation.

INGLOBE
In*globe", v. t.

Defn: To infix, as in a globe; to fix or secure firmly. [Obs.]
Milton.

INGLORIOUS
In*glo"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. inglorious; pref. in- not + gloria glory,
fame: cf. F. inglorieux. See Glory.]

1. Not glorious; not bringing honor or glory; not accompanied with
fame, honor, or celebrity; obscure; humble; as, an inglorious life of
ease. Shak.
My next desire is, void of care and strife, To lead a soft, secure,
inglorious life. Dryden.
Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest. Gray.

2. Shameful; disgraceful; ignominious; as, inglorious flight, defeat,
etc.
Inglorious shelter in an alien land. J. Philips.

INGLORIOUSLY
In*glo"ri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inglorious manner; dishonorably; with shame;
ignominiously; obscurely.

INGLORIOUSNESS
In*glo"ri*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being inglorious.

INGLUT
In*glut", v. t.

Defn: To glut. [R.] Ascham.

INGLUVIAL
In*glu"vi*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the indulges or crop of birds.

INGLUVIES
In*glu"vi*es, n. Etym: [L.] (Anat.)

Defn: The crop, or craw, of birds.

INGLUVIOUS
In*glu"vi*ous, a.

Defn: Gluttonous. [Obs.] Blount.

IN-GOING
In"-go`ing, n.

Defn: The act of going in; entrance.

IN-GOING
In"-go`ing, a.

Defn: Going; entering, as upon an office or a possession; as, an in-
going tenant.

INGORGE
In*gorge", v. t. & i.

Defn: See Engorge. Milton.

INGOT
In"got, n. Etym: [Prob. from AS. in in + geótan to pour: cf. F.
linglot, LL. lingotus a mass of gold or silver, extended in the
manner of a tongue, and G. einguss, LG. & OE. ingot ingot, a mold for
casting metals in. See Found to cast, and cf. Linget, Lingot,
Nugget.]

1. That in which metal is cast; a mold. [Obs.]
And from the fire he took up his matter And in the ingot put it with
merry cheer. Chaucer.

2. A bar or wedge of steel, gold, or other malleable metal, cast in a
mold; a mass of unwrought cast metal.
Wrought ingots from Besoara's mine. Sir W. Jones.
Ingot mold, a box or mold in which ingots are cast.
 -- Ingot iron. See Decarbonized steel, under Decarbonize.

INGOT STEEL
In"got steel.

Defn: Steel cast in ingots from the Bessemer converter or open-hearth
furnace.

INGRACE
In*grace", v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + grace.]

Defn: To ingratiate. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.

INGRACIOUS
In*gra"cious, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + gracious.]

Defn: Ungracious; unkind. [Obs.] Holland.

INGRAFF
In*graff", v. t.

Defn: See Ingraft. [Obs.]

INGRAFT
In*graft", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ingrafted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ingrafting.] Etym: [Written also engraft.]

1. To insert, as a scion of one tree, shrub, or plant in another for
propagation; as, to ingraft a peach scion on a plum tree;
figuratively, to insert or introduce in such a way as to make a part
of something.
This fellow would ingraft a foreign name Upon our stock. Dryden.
A custom . . . ingrafted into the monarchy of Rome. Burke.

2. To subject to the process of grafting; to furnish with grafts or
scions; to graft; as, to ingraft a tree.

INGRAFTER
In*graft"er, n.

Defn: A person who ingrafts.

INGRAFTMENT
In*graft"ment, n.

1. The act of ingrafting.

2. The thing ingrafted; a scion.

INGRAIN
In"grain`, a. Etym: [Pref. in- in + grain kermes. See Engrain,
Grain.]

1. Dyed with grain, or kermes. [Obs.]

2. Dyed before manufacture, -- said of the material of a textile
fabric; hence, in general, thoroughly inwrought; forming an essential
part of the substance. Ingrain carpet, a double or two-ply carpet.
 -- Triple ingrain carpet, a three-ply carpet.

INGRAIN
In"grain`, n.

Defn: An ingrain fabric, as a carpet.

INGRAIN
In"grain`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ingrained; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ingraining.] Etym: [Written also engrain.]

1. To dye with or in grain or kermes.

2. To dye in the grain, or before manufacture.

3. To work into the natural texture or into the mental or moral
constitution of; to stain; to saturate; to imbue; to infix deeply.
Our fields ingrained with blood. Daniel.
Cruelty and jealousy seem to be ingrained in a man who has these
vices at all. Helps.

INGRAPPLE
In*grap"ple, v. t. & i.

Defn: To seize; to clutch; to grapple. [Obs.] Drayton.

INGRATE
In"grate`, a. Etym: [L. ingratus. See Ingrateful.]

Defn: Ingrateful. [Obs. or Poetic] Bacon.

INGRATE
In"grate`, n.

Defn: An ungrateful person. Milton.

INGRATEFUL
In"grate`ful, a. Etym: [L. ingratus ingrateful (pref. in- not +
gratus beloved, dear, grateful) + -ful: cf. F. ingrat. See Grateful.]

1. Ungrateful; thankless; unappreciative. Milton.
He proved extremely false and ingrateful to me. Atterbury.

2. Unpleasing to the sense; distasteful; offensive.
He gives . . . no ingrateful food. Milton.
-- In"grate`ful*ly, adv.
 -- In"grate`ful*ness, n.

INGRATELY
In"grate`ly, adv.

Defn: Ungratefully. [Obs.]

INGRATIATE
In*gra"ti*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ingratiated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ingratiating.] Etym: [Pref. in- in + L. gratia. See Grace.]

1. To introduce or commend to the favor of another; to bring into
favor; to insinuate; -- used reflexively, and followed by with before
the person whose favor is sought.
Lysimachus . . . ingratiated himself both with Philip and his pupil.
Budgell.

2. To recommend; to render easy or agreeable; -- followed by to.
[Obs.] Dr. J. Scott.
What difficulty would it [the love of Christ] not ingratiate to us
Hammond.

INGRATIATE
In*gra"ti*ate, v. i.

Defn: To gain favor. [R.] Sir W. Temple.

INGRATITUDE
In*grat"i*tude, n. Etym: [F. ingratitude, L. ingratitudo. See
Ingrate.]

Defn: Want of gratitude; insensibility to, forgetfulness of, or ill
return for, kindness or favors received; unthankfulness;
ungratefulness.
Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend. Shak.
Ingratitude is abhorred both by God and man. L'Estrange.

INGRAVE
In*grave", v. t.

Defn: To engrave. [R.] "Whose gleaming rind ingrav'n." Tennyson.

INGRAVE
In*grave", v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + grave. Cf. Engrave.]

Defn: To bury. [Obs.] Heywood.

INGRAVIDATE
In*grav"i*date, v. t. Etym: [L. ingravidatus, p. p. of ingravidare to
impregnate. See 1st In-, and Gravidated.]

Defn: To impregnate. [Obs.] Fuller.

INGRAVIDATION
In*grav`i*da"tion, n.

Defn: The state of being pregnant or impregnated. [Obs.]

INGREAT
In*great", v. t.

Defn: To make great; to enlarge; to magnify. [Obs.] Fotherby.

INGREDIENCE; INGREDIENCY
In*gre"di*ence, In*gre"di*en*cy, n. Etym: [See Ingredient.]

1. Entrance; ingress. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

2. The quality or state of being an ingredient or component part.
Boyle.

INGREDIENT
In*gre"di*ent, n. Etym: [F. ingrédient, L. ingrediens, -entis,
entering into, p. pr. of ingredi, p. p. ingressus, to go into, to
enter; pref. in- in + gradi to walk, go. See Grade.]

Defn: That which enters into a compound, or is a component part of
any combination or mixture; an element; a constituent.
By way of analysis we may proceed from compounds to ingredients. Sir
I. Newton.
Water is the chief ingredient in all the animal fluids and solids.
Arbuthnot.

INGREDIENT
In*gre"di*ent, a.

Defn: Entering as, or forming, an ingredient or component part.
Acts where no sin is ingredient. Jer. Taylor.

INGRESS
In"gress, n. Etym: [L. ingressus, fr. ingredi. See Ingredient.]

1. The act of entering; entrance; as, the ingress of air into the
lungs.

2. Power or liberty of entrance or access; means of entering; as, all
ingress was prohibited.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: The entrance of the moon into the shadow of the earth in
eclipses, the sun's entrance into a sign, etc.

INGRESS
In"gress, v. i.

Defn: To go in; to enter. [R.]

INGRESSION
In*gres"sion, n. Etym: [L. ingressio: cf. F. ingression.]

Defn: Act of entering; entrance. Sir K. Digby.

INGRIEVE
In*grieve, v. t.

Defn: To render more grievous; to aggravate. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

INGROOVE
In*groove", v. t.

Defn: To groove in; to join in or with a groove. Tennyson.

INGROSS
In*gross", v. t.

Defn: See Engross.

INGROWING
In"grow`ing, a.

Defn: Growing or appearing to grow into some other substance.
Ingrowing nail, one whose edges are becoming imbedded in the adjacent
flesh.

INGROWTH
In"growth`, n.

Defn: A growth or development inward. J. LeConte.

INGUEN
In"guen, n. Etym: [L. inguen, inguinis.] (Anat.)

Defn: The groin.

INGUILTY
In*guilt"y, a.

Defn: Not guilty. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

INGUINAL
In"gui*nal, a. Etym: [L. inguinalis, fr. inguen, inguinis, the groin:
cf. F. inguinal.] (Astron. & Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or in the region of, the inguen or groin;
as, an inguinal canal or ligament; inguinal hernia. Inguinal ring.
See Abdominal ring, under Abdominal.

INGULF
In*gulf", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ingulfed; p. pr. & vb. n. Ingulfing.]
Etym: [Cf. Engulf.] [Written also engulf.]

Defn: To swallow up or overwhelm in, or as in, a gulf; to cast into a
gulf. See Engulf.
A river large . . . Passed underneath ingulfed. Milton.

INGULFMENT
In*gulf"ment, n.

Defn: The act of ingulfing, or the state of being ingulfed.

INGURGITATE
In*gur"gi*tate, v. t. Etym: [L. ingurgitatus, p. p. of ingurgitare to
pour in; pref. in- in + gurges whirlpool, gulf.]

1. To swallow, devour, or drink greedily or in large quantity; to
guzzle. Cleveland.

2. To swallow up, as in a gulf. Fotherby.

INGURGITATE
In*gur"gi*tate, v. i.

Defn: To guzzle; to swill. Burton.

INGURGITATION
In*gur`gi*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. ingurgitatio: cf. F. ingurgitation.]

Defn: The act of swallowing greedily or immoderately; that which is
so swallowed. E. Darwin.
He drowned his stomach and senses with a large draught and
ingurgitation of wine. Bacon.

INGUSTABLE
In*gust"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. ingustabilis. See Gustable.]

Defn: Tasteless; insipid. Sir T. Browne.

INHABILE
In*hab"ile, a. Etym: [L. inhabilis: cf. F. inhabile. See In- not, and
Habile, and cf. Unable.]

1. Not apt or fit; unfit; not convenient; inappropriate; unsuitable;
as, inhabile matter. [Obs.]

2. Unskilled; unready; awkward; incompetent; unqualified; -- said of
person. [Obs.] See Unable.

INHABILITY
In`ha*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inhabileté, inhabilité. See
Inability.]

Defn: Unsuitableness; unaptness; unfitness; inability. [Obs.] Barrow.

INHABIT
In*hab"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inhabited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inhabiting.] Etym: [OE. enhabiten, OF. enhabiter, L. inhabitare;
pref. in- in + habitare to dwell. See Habit.]

Defn: To live or dwell in; to occupy, as a place of settled
residence; as, wild beasts inhabit the forest; men inhabit cities and
houses.
The high and lofty One, that inhabiteth eternity. Is. lvii. 15.
O, who would inhabit This bleak world alone Moore.

INHABIT
In*hab"it, v. i.

Defn: To have residence in a place; to dwell; to live; to abide.
[Archaic or Poetic] Shak.
They say wild beasts inhabit here. Waller.

INHABITABLE
In*hab"it*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. inhabitabilis. See Inhabit.]

Defn: Capable of being inhabited; habitable.
Systems of inhabitable planets. Locke.

INHABITABLE
In*hab"it*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. inhabitabilis: cf. F. inhabitable. See
In- not, and Habitable.]

Defn: Not habitable; not suitable to be inhabited. [Obs.]
The frozen ridges of the Alps Or other ground inhabitable. Shak.

INHABITANCE; INHABITANCY
In*hab"it*ance, In*hab"it*an*cy, n.

1. The act of inhabiting, or the state of being inhabited; the
condition of an inhabitant; residence; occupancy.
Ruins yet resting in the wild moors testify a former inhabitance.
Carew.

2. (Law)

Defn: The state of having legal right to claim the privileges of a
recognized inhabitant; especially, the right to support in case of
poverty, acquired by residence in a town; habitancy.

INHABITANT
In*hab"it*ant, n. Etym: [L. inhabitans, -antis, p. pr. of
inhabitare.]

1. One who dwells or resides permanently in a place, as distinguished
from a transient lodger or visitor; as, an inhabitant of a house, a
town, a city, county, or state. "Frail inhabitants of earth." Cowper.
In this place, they report that they saw inhabitants which were very
fair and fat people. Abp. Abbot.

2. (Law)

Defn: One who has a legal settlement in a town, city, or parish; a
permanent resident.

INHABITATE
In*hab"i*tate, v. t.

Defn: To inhabit. [Obs.]

INHABITATION
In*hab`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. inhabitatio a dwelling.]

1. The act of inhabiting, or the state of being inhabited;
indwelling.
The inhabitation of the Holy Ghost. Bp. Pearson.

2. Abode; place of dwelling; residence. [Obs.] Milton.

3. Population; inhabitants. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
The beginning of nations and of the world's inhabitation. Sir W.
Raleigh.

INHABITATIVENESS
In*hab"it*a*tive*ness, n. (Phrenol.)

Defn: A tendency or propensity to permanent residence in a place or
abode; love of home and country.

INHABITED
In*hab"it*ed, a.

Defn: Uninhabited. [Obs.] Brathwait.

INHABITER
In*hab"it*er, n.

Defn: An inhabitant. [R.] Derham.

INHABITIVENESS
In*hab"it*ive*ness, n. (Phrenol.)

Defn: See Inhabitativeness.
What the phrenologists call inhabitiveness. Lowell.

INHABITRESS
In*hab"it*ress, n.

Defn: A female inhabitant. [R.]

INHALANT
In*hal"ant, a. Etym: [Cf. F. inhalant.]

Defn: Inhaling; used for inhaling.

INHALANT
In*hal"ant, n.

Defn: An apparatus also called an inhaler (which see); that which is
to be inhaled.

INHALATION
In`ha*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inhalation.]

Defn: The act of inhaling; also, that which is inhaled.

INHALE
In*hale", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inhaled; p. pr. & vb. n. Inhaling.]
Etym: [L. inhalare to breathe upon; pref. in- in + halare to breathe:
cf. F. inhaler. Cf. Exhale.]

Defn: To breathe or draw into the lungs; to inspire; as, to inhale
air; -- opposed to exhale.
Martin was walking forth to inhale the fresh breeze of the evening.
Arbuthnot.

INHALENT
In*hal"ent, a.

Defn: Used for inhaling; as, the inhalent end of a duct. Dana.

INHALER
In*hal"er, n.

1. One who inhales.

2. An apparatus for inhaling any vapor or volatile substance, as
ether or chloroform, for medicinal purposes.

3. A contrivance to filter, as air, in order to protect the lungs
from inhaling damp or cold air, noxious gases, dust, etc.; also, the
respiratory apparatus for divers.

INHANCE
In*hance", v. t.

Defn: See Enhance.

INHARMONIC; INHARMONICAL
In`har*mon"ic, In`har*mon"ic*al, a.

Defn: Not harmonic; inharmonious; discordant; dissonant.

INHARMONIOUS
In`har*mo"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + harmonious: cf. F.
inharmonieux.]

1. Not harmonious; unmusical; discordant; dissonant.
Sounds inharmonious in themselves and harsh. Cowper.

2. Conflicting; jarring; not in harmony.

INHARMONIOUSLY
In`har*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: Without harmony.

INHARMONIOUSNESS
In`har*mo"ni*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being inharmonious; want of harmony; discord.
The inharmoniousness of a verse. A. Tucker.

INHARMONY
In*har"mo*ny, n.

Defn: Want of harmony.

INHAUL; INHAULER
In"haul`, In"haul`er, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A rope used to draw in the jib boom, or flying jib boom.

INHEARSE
In*hearse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inhearsed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inhearsing.]

Defn: To put in, or as in, a hearse or coffin. Shak.

INHERE
In*here", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Inhered; p. pr. & vb. n. Inhering.]
Etym: [L. inhaerere; pref. in- in + haerere to stick, hang. See
Hesitate.]

Defn: To be inherent; to stick (in); to be fixed or permanently
incorporated with something; to cleave (to); to belong, as attributes
or qualities.
They do but inhere in the subject that supports them. Digby.

INHERENCE; INHERENCY
In*her"ence, In*her"en*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inhérence.]

Defn: The state of inhering; permanent existence in something;
innateness; inseparable and essential connection. Jer. Taylor.

INHERENT
In*her"ent, a. Etym: [L. inhaerens, -entis, p. pr. of inhaerere: cf.
F. inhérent. See Inhere.]

Defn: Permanently existing in something; inseparably attached or
connected; naturally pertaining to; innate; inalienable; as, polarity
is an inherent quality of the magnet; the inherent right of men to
life, liberty, and protection. "A most inherent baseness." Shak.
The sore disease which seems inherent in civilization. Southey.

Syn.
 -- Innate; inborn; native; natural; inbred; inwrought; inseparable;
essential; indispensable.

INHERENTLY
In*her"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: By inherence; inseparably.
Matter hath inherently and essentially such an internal energy.
Bentley.

INHERIT
In*her"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inherited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inheriting.] Etym: [OE. enheriten to inherit, to give a heritage to,
OF. enheriter to appoint as an heir, L. inhereditare; pref. in- in +
hereditare to inherit, fr. heres heir. See Heir.]

1. (Law)

Defn: To take by descent from an ancestor; to take by inheritance; to
take as heir on the death of an ancestor or other person to whose
estate one succeeds; to receive as a right or title descendible by
law from an ancestor at his decease; as, the heir inherits the land
or real estate of his father; the eldest son of a nobleman inherits
his father's title; the eldest son of a king inherits the crown.

2. To receive or take by birth; to have by nature; to derive or
acquire from ancestors, as mental or physical qualities; as, he
inherits a strong constitution, a tendency to disease, etc.
Prince Harry is valiant; for the cold blood he did naturally inherit
of his father he hath . . . manured . . . with good store of fertile
sherris. Shak.

3. To come into possession of; to possess; to own; to enjoy as a
possession.
But the meek shall inherit the earth. Ps. xxxvii. 11.
To bury so much gold under a tree, And never after to inherit it.
Shak.

4. To put in possession of. [R.] Shak.

INHERIT
In*her"it, v. i.

Defn: To take or hold a possession, property, estate, or rights by
inheritance.
Thou shalt not inherit our father's house. Judg. xi. 2.

INHERITABILITY
In*her`it*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being inheritable or descendible to heirs.
Jefferson.

INHERITABLE
In*her"it*a*ble, a.

1. Capable of being inherited; transmissible or descendible; as, an
inheritable estate or title. Blackstone.

2. Capable of being transmitted from parent to child; as, inheritable
qualities or infirmities.

3. Etym: [Cf. OF. enheritable, inheritable.]

Defn: Capable of taking by inheritance, or of receiving by descent;
capable of succeeding to, as an heir.
By attainder . . . the blood of the person attainted is so corrupted
as to be rendered no longer inheritable. Blackstone.
The eldest daughter of the king is also alone inheritable to the
crown on failure of issue male. Blackstone.
Inheritable blood, blood or relationship by which a person becomes
qualified to be an heir, or to transmit possessions by inheritance.

INHERITABLY
In*her"it*a*bly, adv.

Defn: By inheritance. Sherwood.

INHERITANCE
In*her"it*ance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. enheritance.]

1. The act or state of inheriting; as, the inheritance of an estate;
the inheritance of mental or physical qualities.

2. That which is or may be inherited; that which is derived by an
heir from an ancestor or other person; a heritage; a possession which
passes by descent.
When the man dies, let the inheritance Descend unto the daughter.
Shak.

3. A permanent or valuable possession or blessing, esp. one received
by gift or without purchase; a benefaction.
To an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not
away. 1 Pet. i. 4.

4. Possession; ownership; acquisition. "The inheritance of their
loves." Shak.
To you th' inheritance belongs by right Of brother's praise; to you
eke Spenser.

5. (Biol.)

Defn: Transmission and reception by animal or plant generation.

6. (Law)

Defn: A perpetual or continuing right which a man and his heirs have
to an estate; an estate which a man has by descent as heir to
another, or which he may transmit to another as his heir; an estate
derived from an ancestor to an heir in course of law. Blackstone.

Note: The word inheritance (used simply) is mostly confined to the
title to land and tenements by a descent. Mozley & W.
Men are not proprietors of what they have, merely for themselves;
their children have a title to part of it which comes to be wholly
theirs when death has put an end to their parents' use of it; and
this we call inheritance. Locke.

INHERITOR
In*her"it*or, n.

Defn: One who inherits; an heir.
Born inheritors of the dignity. Milton.

INHERITRESS
In*her"it*ress, n.

Defn: A heiress. Milman.

INHERITRIX
In*her"it*rix, n.

Defn: Same as Inheritress. Shak.

INHERSE
In*herse", v. t. [Obs.]

Defn: See Inhearse.

INHESION
In*he"sion, n. Etym: [L. inhaesio. See Inhere.]

Defn: The state of existing, of being inherent, in something;
inherence. A. Baxter.
Constant inhesion and habitual abode. South.

INHIATION
In`hi*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. inhiatio, fr. inhiare to gape; pref. in- +
hiare to gape.]

Defn: A gaping after; eager desire; craving. [R.] Bp. Hall.

INHIBIT
In*hib"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inhibited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inhibiting.] Etym: [L. inhibitus, p. p. of inhibere; pref. in- in +
habere to have, hold. See Habit.]

1. To check; to hold back; to restrain; to hinder.
Their motions also are excited or inhibited . . . by the objects
without them. Bentley.

2. To forbid; to prohibit; to interdict.
All men were inhibited, by proclamation, at the dissolution, so much
as to mention a Parliament. Clarendon.
Burial may not be inhibited or denied to any one. Ayliffe.

INHIBITION
In`hi*bi"tion, n. Etym: [L. inhibitio: cf. F. inhibition.]

1. The act of inhibiting, or the state of being inhibited; restraint;
prohibition; embargo.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: A stopping or checking of an already present action; a
restraining of the function of an organ, or an agent, as a digestive
fluid or ferment, etc.; as, the inhibition of the respiratory center
by the pneumogastric nerve; the inhibition of reflexes, etc.

3. (Law)

Defn: A writ from a higher court forbidding an inferior judge from
further proceedings in a cause before; esp., a writ issuing from a
higher ecclesiastical court to an inferior one, on appeal. Cowell.

INHIBITOR
In*hib"i*tor, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: That which causes inhibitory action; esp., an inhibitory nerve.

INHIBITORY
In*hib"i*to*ry, a. Etym: [LL. inhibitorius: cf. F. inhibitoire.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or producing, inhibition; consisting in
inhibition; tending or serving to inhibit; as, the inhibitory action
of the pneumogastric on the respiratory center.
I would not have you consider these criticisms as inhibitory. Lamb.
Inhibitory nerves (Physiol.), those nerves which modify, inhibit, or
suppress a motor or secretory act already in progress.

INHIBITORY-MOTOR
In*hib"i*to*ry-mo"tor, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: A term applied to certain nerve centers which govern or
restrain subsidiary centers, from which motor impressions issue.
McKendrick.

INHIVE
In*hive", v. t.

Defn: To place in a hive; to hive.

INHOLD
In*hold", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inheld; p. pr. & vb. n. Inholding.]

Defn: To have inherent; to contain in itself; to possess. [Obs.] Sir
W. Raleigh.

INHOLDER
In*hold"er, n.

Defn: An inhabitant. [Obs.] Spenser.

INHOOP
In*hoop", v. t.

Defn: To inclose in a hoop, or as in a hoop. [R.] Shak.

INHOSPITABLE
In*hos"pi*ta*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + hospitable: cf. L.
inhospitalis.]

1. Not hospitable; not disposed to show hospitality to strangers or
guests; as, an inhospitable person or people.
Have you no touch of pity, that the poor Stand starved at your
inhospitable door Cowper.

2. Affording no shelter or sustenance; barren; desert; bleak;
cheerless; wild. "Inhospitable wastes." Blair.
 -- In*hos"pi*ta*ble*mess, n.
 -- In*hos"pi*ta*bly, adv.

INHOSPITALITY
In*hos`pi*tal"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. inhospitalitas: cf. F.
inhospitalité. See In- not, and Hospitality.]

Defn: The quality or state of being inhospitable; inhospitableness;
lack of hospitality. Bp. Hall.

INHUMAN
In*hu"man, a. Etym: [L. inhumanus: cf. F. inhumain. See In- not, and
Human.]

1. Destitute of the kindness and tenderness that belong to a human
being; cruel; barbarous; savage; unfeeling; as, an inhuman person or
people.

2. Characterized by, or attended with, cruelty; as, an inhuman act or
punishment.

Syn.
 -- Cruel; unfeeling; pitiless; merciless; savage; barbarous; brutal;
ferocious; ruthless; fiendish.

INHUMANITY
In`hu*man"i*ty, n.; pl. Inhumanities. Etym: [L. inhumanitas: cf. F.
inhumanité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being inhuman; cruelty; barbarity.
Man's inhumanity to man Makes countless thousands mourn. Burns.

INHUMANLY
In*hu"man*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inhuman manner; cruelly; barbarously.

INHUMATE
In*hu"mate, v. t. Etym: [L. inhumatus, p. p. of inhumare to inhume;
pref. in- in + humare to cover with earth. See Humation, and cf.
Inhume.]

Defn: To inhume; to bury; to inter. Hedge.

INHUMATION
In`hu*ma"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inhumation.]

1. The act of inhuming or burying; interment.

2. (Old Chem.)

Defn: The act of burying vessels in warm earth in order to expose
their contents to a steady moderate heat; the state of being thus
exposed.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Arenation.

INHUME
In*hume", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inhumed; p. pr. & vb. n. Inhuming.]
Etym: [Cf. F. inhumer. See Inhumate.]

1. To deposit, as a dead body, in the earth; to bury; to inter.
Weeping they bear the mangled heaps of slain, Inhume the natives in
their native plain. Pope.

2. To bury or place in warm earth for chemical or medicinal purposes.

INIA
In"i*a, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American freshwater dolphin (Inia Boliviensis). It is
ten or twelve feet long, and has a hairy snout.

INIAL
In"i*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the inion.

INIMAGINABLE
In`im*ag"i*na*ble, a.

Defn: Unimaginable; inconceivable. [R.] Bp. Pearson.

INIMICAL
In*im"i*cal, a. Etym: [L. inimicalis, fr. inimicus unfriendly,
hostile; pref. in- not + amicus friendly. See Amity.]

1. Having the disposition or temper of an enemy; unfriendly;
unfavorable; -- chiefly applied to private, as hostile is to public,
enmity.

2. Opposed in tendency, influence, or effects; antagonistic;
inconsistent; incompatible; adverse; repugnant.
We are at war with a system, which, by its essence, is inimical to
all other governments. Burke.

INIMICALITY
In*im`i*cal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being inimical or hostile; hostility;
unfriendliness. [R.]

INIMICALLY
In*im"i*cal*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inimical manner.

INIMICITIOUS
In*im`i*ci"tious, a. Etym: [L. inimicitia enmity. See Inimical.]

Defn: Inimical; unfriendly. [R.] Sterne.

INIMICOUS
In*im"i*cous, a. Etym: [L. inimicus.]

Defn: Inimical; hurtful. [Obs.] Evelyn.

INIMITABILITY
In*im`i*ta*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inimitable; inimitableness.
Norris.

INIMITABLE
In*im"i*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. inimitabilis: cf. F. inimitable. See In-
not, and Imitable.]

Defn: Not capable of being imitated, copied, or counterfeited; beyond
imitation; surpassingly excellent; matchless; unrivaled; exceptional;
unique; as, an inimitable style; inimitable eloquence. "Inimitable
force." Dryden.
Performing such inimitable feats. Cowper.
-- In*im"i*ta*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*im"i*ta*bly, adv.

INION
In"i*on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. 'ini`on the back of the head.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The external occipital protuberance of the skull.

INIQUITOUS
In*iq"ui*tous, a. Etym: [From Iniquity.]

Defn: Characterized by iniquity; unjust; wicked; as, an iniquitous
bargain; an iniquitous proceeding.
Demagogues . . . bribed to this iniquitous service. Burke.

Syn.
 -- Wicked; wrong; unjust; unrighteous; nefarious; criminal.
 -- Iniquitous, Wicked, Nefarious. Wicked is the generic term.
Iniquitous is stronger, denoting a violation of the rights of others,
usually by fraud or circumvention. Nefarious is still stronger,
implying a breach of the most sacred obligations, and points more
directly to the intrinsic badness of the deed.

INIQUITOUSLY
In*iq"ui*tous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an iniquitous manner; unjustly; wickedly.

INIQUITY
In*iq"ui*ty, n.; pl. Iniquities. Etym: [OE. iniquitee, F. iniquité,
L. iniquitas, inequality, unfairness, injustice. See Iniquous.]

1. Absence of, or deviation from, just dealing; want of rectitude or
uprightness; gross injustice; unrighteousness; wickedness; as, the
iniquity of bribery; the iniquity of an unjust judge.
Till the world from his perfection fell Into all filth and foul
iniquity. Spenser.

2. An iniquitous act or thing; a deed of injustice o Milton.
Your iniquities have separated between you and your God. Is. lix. 2.

3. A character or personification in the old English moralities, or
moral dramas, having the name sometimes of one vice and sometimes of
another. See Vice.
Acts old Iniquity, and in the fit Of miming gets the opinion of a
wit. B. Jonson.

INIQUOUS
In*i"quous, a. Etym: [L. iniquus; pref. in- not + aequus. See Equal.]

Defn: Iniquitous. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

INIRRITABLE
In*ir"ri*ta*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + irritable: cf. F.
inirritable.]

Defn: Not irritable; esp. (Physiol.), incapable of being stimulated
to action, as a muscle.
 -- In*ir`ri*ta*bil"i*ty, n.

INIRRITATIVE
In*ir"ri*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Not accompanied with excitement; as, an inirritative fever. E.
Darwin.

INISLE
In*isle", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Enisled.]

Defn: To form into an island; to surround. [Obs.] Drayton.

INITIAL
In*i"tial, a. Etym: [L. initialis, from initium a going in, entrance,
beginning, fr. inire to go into, to enter, begin; pref. in- in + ire
to go: cf. F. initial. See Issue, and cf. Commence.]

1. Of or pertaining to the beginning; marking the commencement;
incipient; commencing; as, the initial symptoms of a disease.

2. Placed at the beginning; standing at the head, as of a list or
series; as, the initial letters of a name.

INITIAL
In*i"tial, n.

Defn: The first letter of a word or a name.

INITIAL
In*i"tial, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Initialed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Initialing.]

Defn: To put an initial to; to mark with an initial of initials. [R.]

INITIALLY
In*i"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In an initial or incipient manner or degree; at the beginning.
Barrow.

INITIATE
In*i"ti*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Initiated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Initiating.] Etym: [L. initiatus, p. p. of initiare to begin, fr.
initium beginning. See Initial.]

1. To introduce by a first act; to make a beginning with; to set
afoot; to originate; to commence; to begin or enter upon.
How are changes of this sort to be initiated I. Taylor.

2. To acquaint with the beginnings; to instruct in the rudiments or
principles; to introduce.
Providence would only initiate mankind into the useful knowledge of
her treasures, leaving the rest to employ our industry. Dr. H. More.
To initiate his pupil into any part of learning, an ordinary skill in
the governor is enough. Locke.

3. To introduce into a society or organization; to confer membership
on; especially, to admit to a secret order with mysterious rites or
ceremonies.
The Athenians believed that he who was initiated and instructed in
the mysteries would obtain celestial honor after death. Bp.
Warburton.
He was initiated into half a dozen clubs before he was one and
twenty. Spectator.

INITIATE
In*i"ti*ate, v. i.

Defn: To do the first act; to perform the first rite; to take the
initiative. [R.] Pope.

INITIATE
In*i"ti*ate, a. Etym: [L. initiatus, p. p.]

1. Unpracticed; untried; new. [Obs.] "The initiate fear that wants
hard use." Shak.

2. Begun; commenced; introduced to, or instructed in, the rudiments;
newly admitted.
To rise in science as in bliss, Initiate in the secrets of the skies.
Young.
Initiate tenant by courtesy (Law), said of a husband who becomes such
in his wife's estate of inheritance by the birth of a child, but
whose estate is not consummated till the death of the wife. Mozley &
W.

INITIATE
In*i"ti*ate, n.

Defn: One who is, or is to be, initiated.

INITIATION
In*i`ti*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. initiatio: cf. F. initiation.]

1. The act of initiating, or the process of being initiated or
introduced; as, initiation into a society, into business, literature,
etc. "The initiation of coursers of events." Pope.

2. The form or ceremony by which a person is introduced into any
society; mode of entrance into an organized body; especially, the
rite of admission into a secret society or order.
Silence is the first thing that is taught us at our initiation into
sacred mysteries. Broome.

INITIATIVE
In*i"ti*a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. initiatif.]

Defn: Serving to initiate; inceptive; initiatory; introductory;
preliminary.

INITIATIVE
In*i"ti*a*tive, n. Etym: [Cf. F. initiative.]

1. An introductory step or movement; an act which originates or
begins.
The undeveloped initiatives of good things to come. I. Taylor.

2. The right or power to introduce a new measure or course of action,
as in legislation; as, the initiative in respect to revenue bills is
in the House of Representatives.

INITIATOR
In*i"ti*a`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who initiates.

INITIATORY
In*i"ti*a*to*ry, a.

1. Suitable for an introduction or beginning; introductory;
prefatory; as, an initiatory step. Bp. Hall.

2. Tending or serving to initiate; introducing by instruction, or by
the use and application of symbols or ceremonies; elementary;
rudimentary.
Some initiatory treatises in the law. Herbert.
Two initiatory rites of the same general import can not exist
together. J. M. Mason.

INITIATORY
In*i"ti*a*to*ry, n.

Defn: An introductory act or rite. [R.]

INITION
In*i"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. inition. See Initial.]

Defn: Initiation; beginning. [Obs.] Sir R. Naunton.

INJECT
In*ject", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Injected; p. pr. & vb. n. Injecting.]
Etym: [L. injectus, p. p. of inicere, injicere, to throw in; pref.
in- in + jacere to throw: cf. F. injecter. See Jet a shooting forth.]

1. To throw in; to dart in; to force in; as, to inject cold water
into a condenser; to inject a medicinal liquid into a cavity of the
body; to inject morphine with a hypodermic syringe.

2. Fig.: To throw; to offer; to propose; to instill.
Cæsar also, then hatching tyranny, injected the same scrupulous
demurs. Milton.

3. To cast or throw; -- with on. [R.]
And mound inject on mound. Pope.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: To fill (a vessel, cavity, or tissue) with a fluid or other
substance; as, to inject the blood vessels.

INJECTION
In*jec"tion, n. Etym: [L. injectio : cf.F. injection.]

1. The act of injecting or throwing in; -- applied particularly to
the forcible throwing in of a liquid, or aëriform body, by means of a
syringe, pump, etc.

2. That which is injected; especially, a liquid medicine thrown into
a cavity of the body by a syringe or pipe; a clyster; an enema.
Mayne.

3. (Anat.)
(a) The act or process of filling vessels, cavities, or tissues with
a fluid or other substance.
(b) A specimen prepared by injection.

4. (Steam Eng.)
(a) The act of throwing cold water into a condenser to produce a
vacuum.
(b) The cold water thrown into a condenser. Injection cock, or
Injection valve (Steam Eng.), the cock or valve through which cold
water is admitted into a condenser.
 -- Injection condenser. See under Condenser.
 -- Injection pipe, the pipe through which cold water is through into
the condenser of a steam engine.

INJECTOR
In*ject"or, n.

1. One who, or that which, injects.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A contrivance for forcing feed water into a steam boiler by the
direct action of the steam upon the water. The water is driven into
the boiler by the impulse of a jet of the steam which becomes
condensed as soon as it strikes the stream of cold water it impels; -
- also called Giffard's injector, from the inventor.

INJELLY
In*jel"ly, v. t.

Defn: To place in jelly. [R.]

INJOIN
In*join", v. t. Etym: [Obs.]

Defn: See Enjoin.

INJOINT
In*joint, v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + joint.]

Defn: To join; to unite. [R.] Shak.

INJOINT
In*joint, v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + joint.]

Defn: To disjoint; to separate. [Obs.] Holland.

INJUCUNDITY
In`ju*cun"di*ty, n. Etym: [L. injucunditas. See In- not, and Jocund.]

Defn: Unpleassantness; disagreeableness. [Obs.] Cockeram.

INJUDICABLE
In*ju"di*ca*ble, a.

Defn: Not cognizable by a judge. [Obs.] Bailey.

INJUDICIAL
In`ju*di"cial, a.

Defn: Not according to the forms of law; not judicial. [R.]

INJUDICIOUS
In`ju*di"cious, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + judicious; cf. F.
injudicieux.]

1. Not judicious; wanting in sound judgment; undiscerning;
indiscreet; unwise; as, an injudicious adviser.
An injudicious biographer who undertook to be his editor and the
protector of his memory. A. Murphy.

2. Not according to sound judgment or discretion; unwise; as, an
injudicious measure.

Syn.
 -- Indiscreet; inconsiderate; undiscerning; incautious; unwise;
rash; hasty; imprudent.

INJUDICIOUSLY
In`ju*di"cious*ly, adv.

Defn: In an injudicious manner.

INJUDICIOUSNESS
In`ju*di"cious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being injudicious; want of sound judgment;
indiscretion. Whitlock.

INJUNCTION
In*junc"tion, n. Etym: [L. injunctio, fr. injungere, injunctum, to
join into, to enjoin. See Enjoin.]

1. The act of enjoining; the act of directing, commanding, or
prohibiting.

2. That which is enjoined; an order; a mandate; a decree; a command;
a precept; a direction.
For still they knew,and ought to have still remembered, The high
injunction,not to taste that fruit. Milton.
Necessary as the injunctions of lawful authority. South.

3. (Law)

Defn: A writ or process, granted by a court of equity, and, insome
cases, under statutes, by a court of law,whereby a party is required
to do or to refrain from doing certain acts, according to the
exigency of the writ.

Note: It is more generally used as a preventive than as a restorative
process, although by no means confined to the former. Wharton.
Daniell. Story.

INJURE
In"jure, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Injured; p. pr. & vb. n. Injuring.]
Etym: [L. injuriari, fr. injuria injury, perh. through F. injurier to
insult, in OF. also, to injure; or perhaps fr. E. injury, or F.
injure injury. See Injury.]

Defn: To do harm to; to impair the excellence and value of; to hurt;
to damage; -- used in a variety of senses; as: (a) To hurt or wound,
as the person; to impair soundness, as of health. (b) To damage or
lessen the value of, as goods or estate. (c) To slander, tarnish, or
impair, as reputation or character. (d) To impair or diminish, as
happiness or virtue. (e) To give pain to, as the sensibilities or the
feelings; to grieve; to annoy. (f) To impair, as the intellect or
mind.
When have I injured thee when done thee wrong Shak.

Syn.
 -- To damage; mar; spoil; harm; sully; wrong; maltreat; abuse;
insult; affront; dishonor.

INJURER
In"jur*er, n.

Defn: One who injures or wrongs.

INJURIA
In*ju"ri*a, n.; pl. Injurie. Etym: [L.] (Law)

Defn: Injury; invasion of another's rights.

INJURIOUS
In*ju"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. injuriousus, injurius; cf. F. injurieux.
See Injury.]

1. Not just; wrongful; iniquitous; culpable. [Obs.] Milton.
Till the injurious Roman did extort This tribute from us, we were
free. Shak.

2. Causing injury or harm; hurtful; harmful; detrimental;
mischievous; as, acts injurious to health, credit, reputation,
property, etc.
Without being injurious to the memory of our English Pindar. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Harmful; hurtful; pernicious; mischievous; baneful; deleterious;
noxious; ruinous; detrimental.

INJURIOUSLY
In*ju"ri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an injurious or hurtful manner; wrongfully; hurtfully;
mischievously.

INJURIOUSNESS
In*ju"ri*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being injurious or hurtful; harmfulness; injury.

INJURY
In"ju*ry, n.; pl. Injuries. Etym: [OE. injurie, L. injuria, fr.
injurius injurious, wrongful, unjust; pref. in- not + jus,juris,
right,law,justice: cf. F. injure. See Just, a.]

Defn: Any damage or violation of, the person, character, feelings,
rights, property, or interests of an individual; that which injures,
or occasions wrong, loss, damage, or detriment; harm; hurt; loss;
mischief; wrong; evil; as, his health was impaired by a severe
injury; slander is an injury to the character.
For he that doeth injury shall receve that he did evil. Wyclif(Col.
iii. 25).
Many times we do injury to a cause by dwelling on trifling arguments.
I. Watts.
Riot ascends above their loftiest towers, And injury and outrage.
Milton.

Note: Injury in morals and jurisprudence is the intentional doing of
wrong. Fleming.

Syn.
 -- Harm; hurt; damage; loss; impairment; detriment; wrong; evil;
injustice.

INJUSTICE
In*jus"tice, n. Etym: [F. injustice, L. injustitia. See In- not, and
Justice, and cf. Unjust.]

1. Want of justice and equity; violation of the rights of another or
others; iniquity; wrong; unfairness; imposition.
If this people [the Athenians] resembled Nero in their extravagance,
much more did they resemble and even exceed him in cruelty and
injustice. Burke.

2. An unjust act or deed; a sin; a crime; a wrong.
Cunning men can be guilty of a thousand injustices without being
discovered, or at least without being punished. Swift.

INK
Ink, n. (Mach.)

Defn: The step, or socket, in which the lower end of a millstone
spindle runs.

INK
Ink, n. Etym: [OE. enke, inke, OF. enque, F. encre, L. encaustum the
purple red ink with which the Roman emperors signed their edicts, Gr.
Encaustic, Caustic.]

1. A fluid, or a viscous material or preparation of various kinds
(commonly black or colored), used in writing or printing.
Make there a prick with ink. Chaucer.
Deformed monsters, foul and black as ink. Spenser.

2. A pigment. See India ink, under India.

Note: Ordinarily, black ink is made from nutgalls and a solution of
some salt of iron, and consists essentially of a tannate or gallate
of iron; sometimes indigo sulphate, or other coloring matter,is
added. Other black inks contain potassium chromate, and extract of
logwood, salts of vanadium, etc. Blue ink is usually a solution of
Prussian blue. Red ink was formerly made from carmine (cochineal),
Brazil wood, etc., but potassium eosin is now used. Also red, blue,
violet, and yellow inks are largely made from aniline dyes. Indelible
ink is usually a weak solution of silver nitrate, but carbon in the
form of lampblack or India ink, salts of molybdenum, vanadium, etc.,
are also used. Sympathetic inks may be made of milk, salts of cobalt,
etc. See Sympathetic ink (below). Copying ink, a peculiar ink used
for writings of which copies by impression are to be taken.
 -- Ink bag (Zoöl.), an ink sac.
 -- Ink berry. (Bot.) (a) A shrub of the Holly family (Ilex glabra),
found in sandy grounds along the coast from New England to Florida,
and producing a small black berry. (b) The West Indian indigo berry.
See Indigo.
 -- Ink plant (Bot.), a New Zealand shrub (Coriaria thumifolia), the
berries of which uield a juice which forms an ink.
 -- Ink powder, a powder from which ink is made by solution.
 -- Ink sac (Zoöl.), an organ, found in most cephalopods, containing
an inky fluid which can be ejected from a duct opening at the base of
the siphon. The fluid serves to cloud the water, and enable these
animals to escape from their enemies. See Illust. of Dibranchiata.
 -- Printer's ink, or Printing ink. See under Printing.
 -- Sympathetic ink, a writing fluid of such a nature that what is
written remains invisible till the action of a reagent on the
characters makes it visible.

INK
Ink, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inked (nkt); p. pr. & vb. n. Inking.]

Defn: To put ink upon; to supply with ink; to blacken, color, or daub
with ink.

INKER
Ink"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, inks; especially, in printing, the pad
or roller which inks the type.

INKFISH
Ink"fish`, n.

Defn: A cuttlefish. See Cuttlefish.

INKHORN
Ink"horn`, n. Etym: [Ink + horn; cf. F. cornet à encre, G.
dintenhorn.]

Defn: A small bottle of horn or other material formerly used for
holding ink; an inkstand; a portable case for writing materials.
"With a writer's inkhorn by his side." Ezek. ix. 2.
From his pocket the notary drew his papers and inkhorn. Longfellow.

INKHORN
Ink"horn", a.

Defn: Learned; pedantic; affected. [Obs.] "Inkhorn terms." Bale.

INKHORNISM
Ink"horn`ism, n.

Defn: Pedantry. Sir T. Wilson.

INKINESS
Ink"i*ness, n. Etym: [From Inky.]

Defn: The state or quality of being inky; blackness.

INKING
Ink"ing, a.

Defn: Supplying or covering with ink. Inking roller, a somewhat
elastic roller,used to spread ink over forms of type, copperplates,
etc.
 -- Inking trough or table, a trough or table from which the inking
roller receives its ink.

INKLE
In"kle, n. Etym: [Prob.the same word as lingle, the first l being
mistaken for the definite article in French. See Lingle.]

Defn: A kind of tape or braid. Shak.

INKLE
In"kle, v. t. Etym: [OE. inklen to hint; cf. Dan. ymte to whisper.]

Defn: To guess. [Prov. Eng.] "She inkled what it was." R. D.
Blackmore.

INKLING
In"kling, n.

Defn: A hint; an intimation.
The least inkling or glimpse of this island. Bacon.
They had some inkling of secret messages. Clarendon.

INKNEE
In"knee`, n.

Defn: Same as Knock-knee.

INKNEED
In"kneed`, a.

Defn: See Knock-kneed.

INKNOT
In*knot", v. t.

Defn: To fasten or bind, as with a knot; to knot together. Fuller.

INKSTAND
Ink"stand`, n.

Defn: A small vessel for holding ink, to dip the pen into; also, a
device for holding ink and writing materials.

INKSTONE
Ink"stone", n.

Defn: A kind of stone containing native vitriol or subphate of iron,
used in making ink.

INKY
Ink"y, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, ink; soiled with ink; black.
"Inky blots." Shak. "Its inky blackness." Boyle.

INLACE
In*lace", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inlaced; p. pr. & vb. n. Inlacing.]
Etym: [Pref. in- + lace: cf. OE. enlacen to entangle, involve, OF.
enlacier, F. enlacer. See Lace, and cf. Enlace.]

Defn: To work in, as lace; to embellish with work resembling lace;
also, to lace or enlace. P. Fletcher.

INLAGATION
In"la*ga"tion, n. Etym: [Law L. inlagatio, fr. inlagare to restore to
law. See In, and Law.] (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: The restitution of an outlawed person to the protection of the
law; inlawing. Bouvier.

INLAID
In*laid", p. p.

Defn: of Inlay.

INLAND
In"land, a.

1. Within the land; more or less remote from the ocean or from open
water; interior; as, an inland town. "This wide inland sea." Spenser.
From inland regions to the distant main. Cowper.

2. Limited to the land, or to inland routes; within the seashore
boundary; not passing on, or over, the sea; as, inland
transportation, commerce, navigation, etc.

3. Confined to a country or state; domestic; not foreing; as, an
inland bill of exchange. See Exchange.

INLAND
In"land, n.

Defn: The interior part of a country. Shak.

INLAND
In"land, adv.

Defn: Into, or towards, the interior, away from the coast. Cook.
The greatest waves of population have rolled inland from the east. S.
Turner.

INLANDER
In"land*er, n.

Defn: One who lives in the interior of a country, or at a distance
from the sea. Sir T. Browne.

INLANDISH
In"land*ish, a.

Defn: Inland. [Obs.] T. Reeve(1657)

INLAPIDATE
In*lap"i*date, v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + L. lapis, lapidis, stone.]

Defn: To convert into a stony substance; to petrity. [R.] Bacon.

INLARD
In*lard", v. t.

Defn: See Inlard.

INLAW
In*law", v. t. Etym: [In + law. Cf. Inlagation.] (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: To clear of outlawry or attainder; to place under the
protection of the law. Burrill.

INLAY
In*lay", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inlaied; p. pr. & vb. n. Inlaying.]

Defn: To lay within; hence, to insert, as pieces of pearl, iviry,
choice woods, or the like, in a groundwork of some other material; to
form an ornamental surface; to diversify or adorn with insertions.
Look,how the floor of heaven Is thick inlaid with patines of bright
gold. Shak.
But these things are . . . borrowed by the monks to inlay their
story. Milton.

INLAY
In"lay`, n.

Defn: Matter or pieces of wood, ivory, etc., inlaid, or prepared for
inlaying; that which is inserted or inlaid for ornament or variety.
Crocus and hyacinth with rich inlay Broidered the ground. Milton.
The sloping of the moonlit sward Was damask work, and deep inlay Of
braided blooms. Tennyson.

INLAYER
In*lay"er, n.

Defn: One who inlays, or whose occupation it is to inlay.

INLEAGUE
In*league", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inleagued; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inleaguing.]

Defn: To ally, or form an alliance witgh; to unite; to combine.
With a willingness inleague our blood With his, for purchase of full
growth in friendship. Ford.

INLEAGUER
In*lea"guer, v. t.

Defn: To beleaguer. Holland.

INLET
In"let, n.

1. A passage by which an inclosed place may be entered; a place of
ingress; entrance.
Doors and windows,inlets of men and of light. Sir H. Wotton.

2. A bay or recess,as in the shore of a sea, lake, or large river; a
narrow strip of water running into the land or between islands.

3. That which is let in or inland; an inserted material.

Note: Inlet is also usewd adjectively,as in inlet pipe, inlet valve,
etc.

INLIGHTEN
In*light"en, v. t.

Defn: See Enlighten.

INLIST
In*list", v. t.

Defn: See Enlist.

INLIVE
In*live", v. t.

Defn: To animate. [R.] B. Jonson.

INLOCK
In*lock", v. t.

Defn: To lock in, or inclose.

IN LOCO
In lo"co. Etym: [L.]

Defn: In the place; in the proper or natural place.

INLUMINE
In*lu"mine, v. t. [Obs.]

Defn: See Illumine.

INLY
In"ly, a. Etym: [OE. inlich, AS. inlic. See In.]

Defn: Internal; interior; secret.
Didst thou but know the inly touch of love. Shak.

INLY
In"ly, adv.

Defn: Internally; within; in the heart. "Whereat he inly raged."
Milton.

INMACY
In"ma*cy, n. Etym: [From Inmate.]

Defn: The state of being an inmate. [R.] Craig.

INMATE
In"mate`, n. Etym: [In + mate an associate.]

Defn: One who lives in the same house or apartment with another; a
fellow lodger; esp.,one of the occupants of an asylum, hospital, or
prison; by extension, one who occupies or lodges in any place or
dwelling.
So spake the enemy of mankind, inclos'd In serpent, inmate bad.
Milton.

INMATE
In"mate`, a.

Defn: Admitted as a dweller; resident; internal. [R.] "Inmate
guests." Milton.

INMEATS
In"meats`, n.pl.

Defn: The edible viscera of animals, as the heart, liver, etc.

INMESH
In*mesh", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inmeshed; p. pr. & vb. n. Inmeshing.]

Defn: To bring within meshes, as of a net; to enmesh.

INMEW
In*mew", v. t. Etym: [Cf.Emmew, Immew.]

Defn: To inclose, as in a mew or cage. [R.] "Inmew the town below."
Beau. & Fl.

INMOST
In"most`, a. Etym: [OE. innemest, AS. innemest, a double superlative
form fr. inne within, fr. in in. The modern form is due to confusion
with most. See In, and cf. Aftermost, Foremost, Innermost.]

Defn: Deepest within; farthest from the surface or external part;
innermost.
And pierce the inmost center of the earth. Shak.
The silent, slow, consuming fires, Which on my inmost vitals prey.
Addison.

INN
Inn, n. Etym: [AS. in,inn, house, chamber, inn, from AS. in in; akin
to Icel. inni house. See In.]

1. A place of shelter; hence, dwelling; habitation; residence; abode.
[Obs.] Chaucer.
Therefore with me ye may take up your inn For this same night.
Spenser.

2. A house for the lodging and entertainment of travelers or
wayfarers; a tavern; a public house; a hotel.

Note: As distinguished from a private boarding house, an inn is a
house for the entertainment of all travelers of good conduct and
means of payment,as guests for a brief period,not as lodgers or
boarders by contract.
The miserable fare and miserable lodgment of a provincial inn. W.
Irving.

3. The town residence of a nobleman or distinguished person; as,
Leicester Inn. [Eng.]

4. One of the colleges (societies or buildings) in London, for
students of the law barristers; as, the Inns of Court; the Inns of
Chancery; Serjeants' Inns. Inns of chancery (Eng.), colleges in which
young students formerly began their law studies, now occupied chiefly
by attorneys, solicitors, etc.
 -- Inns of court (Eng.), the four societies of "students and
practicers of the law of England" which in London exercise the
exclusive right of admitting persons to practice at the bar; also,
the buildings in which the law students and barristers have their
chambers. They are the Inner Temple, the Middle Temple, Lincoln's
Inn, and Gray's Inn.

INN
Inn, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Inned; p. pr. & vb. n. Inning.]

Defn: To take lodging; to lodge. [R.] Addison.

INN
Inn, v. t.

1. To house; to lodge. [Obs.]
When he had brought them into his city And inned them, everich at his
degree. Chaucer.

2. To get in; to in. See In, v. t.

INNATE
In"nate, a. Etym: [L. innatus; pref. in- in + natus born, p.p. of
nasci to be born. See Native.]

1. Inborn; native; natural; as, innate vigor; innate eloquence.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: Originating in, or derived from, the constitution of the
intellect, as opposed to acquired from experience; as, innate ideas.
See A priori, Intuitive.
There is an innate light in every man, discovering to him the first
lines of duty in the common notions of good and evil. South.
Men would not be guilty if they did not carry in their mind common
notions of morality,innate and written in divine letters. Fleming
(Origen).
If I could only show,as I hope I shall . . . how men, barely by the
use of their natural faculties, may attain to all the knowledge they
have, without the help of any innate impressions; and may arrive at
certainty without any such original notions or principles. Locke.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Joined by the base to the very tip of a filament; as, an innate
anther. Gray. Innate ideas (Metaph.), ideas, as of God, immortality,
right and wrong, supposed by some to be inherent in the mind, as a
priori principles of knowledge.

INNATE
In*nate", v. t.

Defn: To cause to exit; to call into being. [Obs.] "The first
innating cause." Marston.

INNATELY
In"nate*ly, adv.

Defn: Naturally.

INNATENESS
In"nate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being innate.

INNATIVE
In*na"tive, a.

Defn: Native. [Obs.] Chapman.

INNAVIGABLE
In*nav"i*ga*ble, a. Etym: [L. innavigabilis : cf. F. innavigable. See
In- not, and Navigable.]

Defn: Incapable of being navigated; impassable by ships or vessels.
Drygen.
 -- In*nav"i*ga*bly, adv.

INNE
Inne, adv. & prep.

Defn: In. [Obs.]
And eke in what array that they were inne. Chaucer.

INNER
In"ner, a. Etym: [AS. innera, a compar. fr. inne within, fr. in in.
See In.]

1. Further in; interior; internal; not outward; as, an spirit or its
phenomena.
This attracts the soul, Governs the inner man,the nobler part.
Milton.

3. Not obvious or easily discovered; obscure. Inner house (Scot.),
the first and second divisions of the court of Session at Edinburgh;
also,the place of their sittings.
 -- Inner jib (Naut.), a fore-and-aft sail set on a stay running from
the fore-topmast head to the jib boom.
 -- Inner plate (Arch.), the wall plate which lies nearest to the
center of the roof,in a double-plated roof.
 -- Inner post (Naut.), a piece brought on at the fore side of the
main post, to support the transoms.
 -- Inner square (Carp.), the angle formed by the inner edges of a
carpenter's square.

INNERLY
In"ner*ly, adv.

Defn: More within. [Obs.] Baret.

INNERMOST
In"ner*most`, a. Etym: [A corruption of inmost due to influence of
inner. See Inmost.]

Defn: Farthest inward; most remote from the outward part; inmost;
deepest within. Prov. xviii. 8.

INNERMOSTLY
In"ner*most`ly, adv.

Defn: In the innermost place. [R.]
His ebon cross worn innermostly. Mrs. Browning.

INNERVATE
In*ner"vate, v. t. Etym: [See Innerve.] (Anat.)

Defn: To supply with nerves; as, the heart is innervated by
pneumogastric and sympathetic branches.

INNERVATION
In`ner*va"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. innervation.]

1. The act of innerving or stimulating.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: Special activity excited in any part of the nervous system or
in any organ of sense or motion; the nervous influence necessary for
the maintenance of life,and the functions of the various organs.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The distribution of nerves in an animal, or to any of its
parts.

INNERVE
In*nerve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Innerved; p. pr. & vb. n. Innerving.]
Etym: [Pref. in- in + nerve.]

Defn: To give nervous energy or power to; to give increased
energy,force,or courage to; to invigorate; to stimulate.

INNHOLDER
Inn"hold`er, n.

Defn: One who keeps an inn.

INNING
In"ning, n. Etym: [AS. innung, fr. in in, prep. & adv.]

1. Ingathering; harvesting. [Obs.] Holland.

2. The state or turn of being in; specifically, in cricket, baseball,
etc.,the turn or time of a player or of a side at the bat; -- often
in the pl. Hence: The turn or time of a person, or a party, in power;
as, the Whigs went out, and the Democrats had their innings.

3. pl.

Defn: Lands recovered from the sea. Ainsworth.

INNITENCY
In*ni"ten*cy, n. Etym: [L. inniti, p.p. innixus, to lean upon; pref.
in- in, on + niti to lean.]

Defn: A leaning; pressure; weight. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

INNIXION
In*nix"ion, n. Etym: [See Innitency.]

Defn: Act of leaning upon something; incumbency. [Obs.] Derham.

INNKEEPER
Inn"keep`er, n.

Defn: An innholder.

INNOCENCE
In"no*cence, n. Etym: [F. innocence, L. innocentia. See Innocent.]

1. The state or quality of being innocent; freedom from that which is
harmful or infurious; harmlessness.

2. The state or quality of being morally free from guilt or sin;
purity of heart; blamelessness.
The silence often of pure innocence Persuades when speaking fails.
Shak.
Banished from man's life his happiest life, Simplicity and spotless
innocence! Milton.

3. The state or quality of being not chargeable for, or guilty of, a
particular crime or offense; as, the innocence of the prisoner was
clearly shown.

4. Simplicity or plainness, bordering on weakness or silliness;
artlessness; ingenuousness. Chaucer. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Harmlessness; innocuousness; blamelessness; purity; sinlessness;
guiltlessness.

INNOCENCY
In"no*cen*cy, n.

Defn: Innocence.

INNOCENT
In"no*cent, a. Etym: [F.innocent, L. innocens, -entis; pref. in- not
+ nocens, p.pr. of nocere to harm, hurt. See Noxious.]

1. Not harmful; free from that which can injure; innoxious;
innocuous; harmless; as, an innocent medicine or remedy.
The spear Sung innocent,and spent its force in air. Pope.

2. Morally free from guilt; guiltless; not tainted with sin; pure;
upright.
To offer up a weak, poor, innocent lamb. Shak.
I have sinned in that I have betrayed the innocent blood. Matt.
xxvii. 4.
The aidless,innocent lady, his wished prey. Milton.

3. Free from the guilt of a particular crime or offense; as, a man is
innocent of the crime charged.
Innocent from the great transgression. Ps. xix. 13.

4. Simple; artless; foolish. Shak.

5. Lawful; permitted; as, an innocent trade.

6. Not contraband; not subject to forfeiture; as, innocent goods
carried to a belligerent nation. Innocent party (Law),a party who has
not notice of a fact tainting a litigated transaction with
illegality.

Syn.
 -- Harmless; innoxious; innoffensive; guiltless; spotless;
immaculate; pure; unblamable; blameless; faultless; guileless;
upright.

INNOCENT
In"no*cent, n.

1. An innocent person; one free from, or unacquainted with, guilt or
sin. Shak.

2. An unsophisticated person; hence, a child; a simpleton; an idiot.
B. Jonson.
In Scotland a natural fool was called an innocent. Sir W. Scott.
Innocents' day (Eccl.), Childermas day.

INNOCENTLY
In"no*cent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an innocent manner.

INNOCUITY
In"no*cu"i*ty, n.

Defn: Innocuousness.

INNOCUOUS
In*noc"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. innocuus; in- not + nocuus hurtful, fr.
nocere to hurt. See Innocent.]

Defn: Harmless; producing no ill effect; innocent.
A patient, innocuous, innocent man. Burton.
-- In*noc"u*ous*ly, adv.
 -- In*noc"u*ous*ness, n.
Where the salt sea innocuously breaks. Wordsworth.

INNODATE
In"no*date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Innodated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Innodating.] Etym: [L. innodatus, p.p. of innodare; pref. in- in +
nodus knot.]

Defn: To bind up,as in a knot; to include. [Obs.] Fuller.

INNOMINABLE
In*nom"i*na*ble, a. Etym: [L. innominabilis; pref. in- not + nominare
to name: cf. F. innominable.]

Defn: Not to be named. [R.] Testament of Love.

INNOMINATE
In*nom"i*nate, a. Etym: [L. innominatus; pref. in- not + nominare to
name.]

1. Having no name; unnamed; as, an innominate person or place. [R.]
Ray.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A term used in designating many parts otherwise unnamed; as,
the innominate artery, a great branch of the arch of the aorta; the
innominate vein, a great branch of the superior vena cava. Innominate
bone (Anat.), the great bone which makes a lateral half of the pelvis
in mammals; hip bone; haunch bone; huckle bone. It is composed of
three bones, ilium, ischium, and pubis, consolidated into one in the
adult, though separate in the fetus, as also in many adult reptiles
and amphibians.
 -- Innominate contracts (Law), in the Roman law, contracts without a
specific name.

INNOVATE
In"no*vate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Innovated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Innovating.] Etym: [L. innovatus,p.p. of innovare to revew; pref. in-
in + novare to make new,fr. novus new. See New.]

1. To bring in as new; to introduce as a novelty; as, to innovate a
word or an act. [Archaic]

2. To change or alter by introducing something new; to remodel; to
revolutionize. [Archaic] Burton.
From his attempts upon the civil power, he proceeds to innovate God's
worship. South.

INNOVATE
In"no*vate, v. i.

Defn: To introduce novelties or changes; -- sometimes with in or on.
Bacon.
Every man,therefore,is not fit to innovate. Dryden.

INNOVATION
In`no*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. innovatio; cf. F. innovation.]

1. The act of innovating; introduction of something new, in customs,
rites, etc. Dryden.

2. A change effected by innovating; a change in customs; something
new, and contrary to established customs, manners, or rites. Bacon.
The love of things ancient doth argue stayedness, but levity and want
of experience maketh apt unto innovations. Hooker.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A newly formed shoot, or the annually produced addition to the
stems of many mosses.

INNOVATIONIST
In`no*va"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who favors innovation.

INNOVATIVE
In"no*va*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by, or introducing, innovations. Fitzed. Hall.

INNOVATOR
In"no*va`tor, n. Etym: [Cf. F. innovateur.]

Defn: One who innovates. Shak.

INNOXIOUS
In*nox"ious, a. Etym: [L. innoxius. See In- not, and Noxious.]

1. Free from hurtful qualities or effects; harmless. "Innoxious
flames." Sir K. Digby.

2. Free from crime; pure; innocent. Pope.
 -- In*nox`ious*ly, adv.
 -- In*nox"ious*ness, n.

INNUBILOUS
In*nu"bi*lous, a. Etym: [L. innubilus. See Nubilous.]

Defn: Cloudless. [Obs.] Blount.

INNUENDO
In`nu*en"do, n.; pl. Innuedoes(. Etym: [L., by intimation, by
hinting, gerund of innuere, innutum, to give a nod, to intimate;
pref. in- in, to + -nuere (in comp.) to nod. See Nutation.]

1. An oblique hint; a remote allusion or reference, usually
derogatory to a person or thing not named; an insinuation.
Mercury . . . owns it a marriage by an innuendo. Dryden.
Pursue your trade of scandal picking; Your innuendoes, when you tell
us, That Stella loves to talk with fellows. Swift.

2. (Law)

Defn: An averment employed in pleading, to point the application of
matter otherwise unintelligible; an interpretative parenthesis thrown
into quoted matter to explain an obscure word or words; -- as, the
plaintiff avers that the defendant said that he (innuendo the
plaintiff) was a thief. Wharton.

Note: The term is so applied from having been the introductory word
of this averment or parenthetic explanation when pleadings were in
Latin. The word "meaning" is used as its equivalent in modern forms.

Syn.
 -- Insinuation; suggestion; hint; intimation; reference; allusion;
implication; representation; -- Innuendo, Insinuation. An innuendo is
an equivocal allusion so framed as to point distinctly at something
which is injurious to the character or reputation of the person
referred to. An insinuation turns on no such double use of language,
but consists in artfully winding into the mind imputations of an
injurious nature without making any direct charge.

INNUENT
In"nu*ent, a. Etym: [L.innuens, p.pr.]

Defn: Conveying a hint; significant. [Obs.] Burton.

INNUIT
In"nu*it, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: An Eskimo.

INNUMERABILITY
In*nu`mer*a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. innumerabilitas.]

Defn: State of being innumerable. Fotherby.

INNUMERABLE
In*nu`mer*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. innumerabilis : cf.F. innumefable. See
In- not, and Numerable.]

Defn: Not capable of being counted, enumerated, or numbered, for
multitude; countless; numberless; unnumbered, hence, indefinitely
numerous; of great number.
Innumerable as the stars of night. Milton.
-- In*nu"mer*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*nu"mer*a*bly, adv.

INNUMEROUS
In*nu"mer*ous, a. Etym: [L. innumerosus, innumerus. See Numerous.]

Defn: Innumerable. [Archaic] Milton.

INNUTRITION
In`nu*tri"tion, n.

Defn: Want of nutrition; failure of nourishment. E. Darwin.

INNUTRITIOUS
In`nu*tri"tious, a.

Defn: Not nutritious; not furnishing nourishment.

INNUTRITIVE
In*nu"tri*tive, a.

Defn: Innutritious.

INNYARD
Inn"yard`, n.

Defn: The yard adjoining an inn.

INOBEDIENCE
In`o*be"di*ence, n. Etym: [L. inoboedientia : cf.F. inobedience.]

Defn: Disobedience. [Obs.] Wyclif. Chaucer.

INOBEDIENT
In`o*be"di*ent, a. Etym: [L. inoboediens, p.pr. of inoboedire : cf.F.
inobedient. See Obedient.]

Defn: Not obedient; disobedient. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- In`o*be"di*ent*ly, adv. [Obs.]

INOBSERVABLE
In`ob*serv"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. inobservabilis : cf. F. inobservable.
See In- not, and Observable.]

Defn: Not observable.

INOBSERVANCE
In`ob*serv"ance, a. Etym: [L. inobservantia : cf. F. inobservance.]

Defn: Want or neglect of observance. Bacon.

INOBSERVANT
In`ob*serv"ant, a. Etym: [L. inobservans. See In- not, and
Observant.]

Defn: Not observant; regardless; heedless. Bp. Hurd.
 -- In`ob*serv"ant*ly, adv.

INOBSERVATION
In*ob`ser*va"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inobservation.]

Defn: Neglect or want of observation. [R.]

INOBTRUSIVE
In`ob*tru"sive, a.

Defn: Not obtrusive; unobtrusive.
 -- In`ob*tru"sive*ly, adv.
 -- In`ob*tru"sive*ness, n.

INOCARPIN
In`o*car"pin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A red, gummy, coloring matter, extracted from the colorless
juice of the Otaheite chestnut (Inocarpus edulis).

INOCCUPATION
In*oc`cu*pa"tion, n.

Defn: Want of occupation.

INOCERAMUS
In`o*cer"a*mus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of large, fossil, bivalve shells,allied to the
mussels. The genus is characteristic of the Cretaceous period.

INOCULABILITY
In*oc`u*la*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The qual ity or state of being inoculable.

INOCULABLE
In*oc"u*la*ble, a. Etym: [See Inoculate.]

Defn: Capable of being inoculated; capable of communicating disease,
or of being communicated, by inoculation.

INOCULAR
In*oc"u*lar, a. (Zoöl)

Defn: Inserted in the corner of the eye; -- said of the antenn

INOCULATE
In*oc"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inoculated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inoculating,.] Etym: [L. inoculatus, p.p. of inoculare to ingraft;
pref. in- in,on + oculare to furnish with eyes, fr. oculus an eye,
also, a bud. See Ocular.]

1. To bud; to insert, or graft, as the bud of a tree or plant in
another tree or plant.

2. To insert a foreign bud into; as, to inoculate a tree.

3. (Med.)

Defn: To communicate a disease to ( a person ) by inserting
infectious matter in the skin or flesh; as, to inoculate a person
with the virus of smallpox,rabies, etc. See Vaccinate.

4. Fig.: To introduce into the mind; -- used especially of harmful
ideas or principles; to imbue; as, to inoculate one with treason or
infidelity.

INOCULATE
In*oc"u*late, v. i.

1. To graft by inserting buds.

2. To communicate disease by inoculation.

INOCULATION
In*oc"u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. inoculatio: cf. F. inoculation.]

1. The act or art of inoculating trees or plants.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The act or practice of communicating a disease to a person in
health, by inserting contagious matter in his skin or flesh.

Note: The use was formerly limited to the intentional communication
of the smallpox, but is now extended to include any similar
introduction of modified virus; as, the inoculation of rabies by
Pasteur.

3. Fig.: The communication of principles, especially false
principles, to the mind.

INOCULATOR
In*oc"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. inoculateur.]

Defn: One who inoculates; one who propagates plants or diseases by
inoculation.

INODIATE
In*o"di*ate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + L. odium hatred.]

Defn: To make odious or hateful. [Obs.] South.

INODORATE
In*o"dor*ate, a.

Defn: Inodorous. [Obs.] Bacon.

INODOROUS
In*o"dor*ous, a. Etym: [L. inodorus. See In- not, and Odorous.]

Defn: Emitting no odor; wthout smell; scentless; odorless.
 -- In*o"dor*ous*ness, n.

INOFFENSIVE
In"of*fen"sive, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + offensiue: cf. F.
inoffensif.]

1. Giving no offense, or provocation; causing no uneasiness,
annoyance, or disturbance; as, an inoffensive man, answer,
appearance.

2. Harmless; doing no injury or mischief. Dryden.

3. Not obstructing; presenting no interruption bindrance. [R.]
Milton.
So have Iseen a river gintly glide In a smooth course, and
inoffensive tide. Addison.
-- In"of*fen"sive*ly, adv.
 -- In"of*fen"sive*ness, n.

INOFFICIAL
In"of*fi"cial, a.

Defn: Not official; not having official sanction or authoriy; not
according to the forms or ceremony of official business; as,
inofficial intelligence.
Pinckney and Marshall would not make inofficial visits to discuss
official business. Pickering.

Syn.
 -- Private; informal; unwarranted; unauthorizod; irregular;
unceremonious; unprofessional.

INOFFICIALLY
In`of*fi"cial*ly, adv.

Defn: Without the usual forms, or not in the official character.

INOFFICIOUS
In`of*fi"cious, a. Etym: [L. inofficiosus: cf. F.inofficieux. See In-
not, and Officious.]

1. Indifferent to obligation or duty. [Obs.]
Thou drown'st thyself in inofficious sleep. B. Jonson.

2. Not officious; not civil or attentive. [Obs.] Jonhson.

3. (Law)

Defn: Regardless of natural obligation; contrary to natural duty;
unkind; -- commonly said of a testament made without regard to
natural obligation, or by which a child is unjustly deprived of
inheritance. "The inofficious testament." Blackstone. "An inofficious
disposition of his fortune." Paley.

INOFFICIOUSLY
In`of*fi"cious*ly, adv.

Defn: Not-officiously.

INOGEN
In"o*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A complex nitrogenous substance, which, by Hermann's
hypothesis, is continually decomposed and reproduced in the muscles,
during their life.

INOPERATION
In*op`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. inoperari to effect; pref. in- in +
operari to operate.]

Defn: Agency; influence; production of effects. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

INOPERATIVE
In*op"er*a*tive, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + operative.]

Defn: Not operative; not active; producing no effects; as, laws
renderd inoperative by neglect; inoperative remedies or processes.

INOPERCULAR; INOPERCULATE
In`o*per"cu*lar, In`o*per"cu*late, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having no operculum; -- said of certain gastropod shells.

INOPINABLE
In`o*pin"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. inopinabilis. See Inopinate.]

Defn: Not to be expected; inconceivable. [Obs.] "Inopinable,
incredible . . . saings." Latimer.

INOPINATE
In*op"i*nate, a. Etym: [L. inopinatus. See In- not, and Opine.]

Defn: Not expected or looked for. [Obs.]

INOPPORTUNE
In*op`por*tune" (, a. Etym: [L. inopportunus: cf. F. inopportun. See
In- not, and Opportune.]

Defn: Not opportune; inconvenient; unseasonable; as, an inopportune
occurrence, remark, etc.
No visit could have been more inopportune. T. Hook.

INOPPORTUNELY
In*op`por*tune"ly, adv.

Defn: Not opportunely; unseasonably; inconveniently.

INOPPORTUNITY
In*op`por*tu"ni*ty, n.

Defn: Want of opportunity; unseasonableness; inconvenience. [R.]

INOPPRESSIVE
In`op*press"ive, a.

Defn: Not oppressive or burdensome. O. Wolcott.

INOPULENT
In*op"u*lent, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + opulent: cf. F. inopulent.]

Defn: Not opulent; not affluent or rich.

INORDINACY
In*or"di*na*cy, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being inordinate; excessiveness;
immoderateness; as, the inordinacy of love or desire. Jer. Taylor.

INORDINATE
In*or"di*nate, a. Etym: [L. inordinatus disordered. See In- not, and
Ordinate.]

Defn: Not limited to rules prescribed, or to usual bounds; irregular;
excessive; immoderate; as, an inordinate love of the world.
"Inordinate desires." Milton. "Inordinate vanity." Burke.
 -- In*or"di*nate*ly, adv.
 -- In*or"di*nate*ness, n.

INORDINATION
In*or`di*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. inordinatio.]

Defn: Deviation from custom, rule, or right; irregularity;
inordinacy. [Obs.] South.
Every inordination of religion that is not in defect, is properly
called superstition. Jer. Taylor.

INORGANIC
In`or*gan"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + organic: cf. F. inorganique.]

Defn: Not organic; without the organs necessary for life; devoid of
an organized structure; unorganized; lifeness; inanimate; as, all
chemical compounds are inorganic substances.

Note: The term inorganic is used to denote any one the large series
of substances (as minerals, metals, etc.), which are not directly
connected with vital processes, either in origin or nature, and which
are broadly and relatively contrasted with organic subscances. See
Organic. Inorganic Chemistry. See under Chemistry.

INORGANICAL
In`or*gan"ic*al, a.

Defn: Inorganic. Locke.

INORGANICALLY
In`or*gan"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inorganic manner.

INORGANITY
In`or*gan"i*ty, n.

Defn: Quality of being inorganic. [Obs.] "The inorganity of the
soul." Sir T. Browne.

INORGANIZATION
In*or`gan*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The state of being without organization.

INORGANIZED
In*or"gan*ized, a.

Defn: Not having organic structure; devoid of organs; inorganic.

INORTHOGRAPHY
In`or*thog"ra*phy, n.

Defn: Deviation from correct orthography; bad spelling. [Obs.]
Feltham.

INOSCULATE
In*os"cu*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Inosculated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inosculating.] Etym: [Pref. in- in + osculate.]

1. To unite by apposition or contact, as two tubular vessels at their
extremities; to anastomose.

2. To intercommunicate; to interjoin.
The several monthly divisions of the journal may inosculate, but not
the several volumes. De Quincey.

INOSCULATE
In*os"cu*late, v. t.

1. To unite by apposition or contact, as two vessels in an animal
body. Berkeley.

2. To unite intimately; to cause to become as one.
They were still together, grew (For so they said themselves)
inosculated. Tennyson.

INOSCULATION
In*os`cu*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inosculation.]

Defn: The junction or connection of vessels, channels, or passages,
so that their contents pass from one to the other; union by mouths or
ducts; anastomosis; intercommunication; as, inosculation of veins,
etc. Ray.

INOSINIC
In`o*sin"ic, a. Etym: [From Inosite.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, inosite; as, inosinic acid.

INOSITE
In"o*site, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance with a sweet taste, found in
certain animal tissues and fluids, particularly in the muscles of the
heart and lungs, also in some plants, as in unripe pease, beans,
potato sprouts, etc. Called also phaseomannite.

Note: Chemically,it has the composition represented by the formula,
C6H12O6+H2O, and was formerly regarded as a carbohydrate, isomeric
with dextrose, but is now known to be an aromatic compound (a hexacid
phenol derivative of benzene).

INOXIDIZABLE
In*ox"idi`za*ble, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Incapable of being oxidized; as, gold and platinum are
inoxidizable in the air.

INOXIDIZE
In*ox"i*dize, v. i.

Defn: To prevent or hinder oxidation, rust, or decay; as, inoxidizing
oils or varnishes.

INPATIENT
In"pa`tient, n.

Defn: A patient who receives lodging and food, as well as treatment,
in a hospital or an infirmary; -- distinguished from outpatient.

IN POSSE
In` pos"se. Etym: [L.]

Defn: In possibility; possible, although not yet in existence or come
to pass; -- contradistinguished from in esse.

INQUARTATION
In`quar*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Quartation.

INQUEST
In"quest, n. Etym: [OE. enqueste, OF. enqueste, F. enquête, LL.
inquesta, for inquisita, fr. L. inquisitus, p.p. of inquirere. See
Inquire.]

1. Inquiry; quest; search. [R.] Spenser.
The laborious and vexatious inquest that the soul must make after
science. South.

2. (Law)
(a) Judicial inquiry; official examination, esp. before a jury; as, a
coroner's inquest in case of a sudden death.
(b) A body of men assembled under authority of law to inquire into
any matterm civil or criminal, particularly any case of violent or
sudden death; a jury, particularly a coroner's jury. The grand jury
is sometimes called the grand inquest. See under Grand.
(c) The finding of the jury upon such inquiry. Coroner's inquest, an
inquest held by a coroner to determine the cause of any violent,
sudden, or mysterious death. See Coroner.
 -- Inquest of office, an inquiry made, by authority or direction of
proper officer, into matters affecting the rights and interests of
the crown or of the state. Craig. Bouvier.

INQUIET
In*qui"et, v. t. Etym: [L. inquietare: cf. F. inquieter. See Quiet.]

Defn: To disquiet. [Obs.] Joye.

INQUIETATION
In*qui`e*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. inquietatio : cf. F. inquielation.]

Defn: Disturbance. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

INQUIETNESS
In*qui"et*ness, n.

Defn: Unquietness. [Obs.] Joye.

INQUIETUDE
In*qui"e*tude, n. Etym: [L. inquietudo: cf. F. inquietude.]

Defn: Disturbed state; uneasiness either of body or mind;
restlessness; disquietude. Sir H. Wotton.

INQUILINE
In"qui*line, n. Etym: [L. inquilinus a tenant, lodger.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gallfly which deposits its eggs in galls formed by other
insects.

INQUINATE
In"qui*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. inquinatus, p.p. of inquinare to
defile.]

Defn: To defile; to pollute; to contaminate; to befoul. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

INQUINATION
In`qui*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. inquinatio.]

Defn: A defiling; pollution; stain. [Obs.] Bacon.

INQUIRABLE
In*quir"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. enquerable.]

Defn: Capable of being inquired into; subject or liable to
inquisition or inquest. Bacon.

INQUIRANCE
In*quir"ance, n.

Defn: Inquiry. [Obs.] Latimer.

INQUIRE
In*quire", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Inquired; p. pr. & vb. n. Inquiring.]
Etym: [OE. enqueren, inqueren, OF. enquerre, F. enquérir, L.
inquirere, inquisitum; pref. in- in + quarere to seek. See Quest a
seeking, and cf. Inquiry.] [Written also enquire.]

1. To ask a question; to seek for truth or information by putting
queries.
We will call the damsel, and inquire. Gen. xxiv. 57.
Then David inquired of the Lord yet again. And the Lord answered him.
1 Sam. xxiii. 4.

2. To seek to learn anything by recourse to the proper means of
knoledge; to make examination.
And inquire Gladly into the ways of God with man. Miltom.

Note: This word is followed by of before the person asked; as, to
inquire of a neighbor. It is followed by concerning, after, or about,
before the subject of inquiry; as, his friends inquired about or
concerning his welfare. "Thou dost not inquire wisely concerning
this." Eccl. vii. 10. It is followed by into when search is made for
particular knowledge or information; as, to inquire into the cause of
a sudden death. It is followed by for or after when a place or person
is sought, or something is missing. "Inquire in the house of Judas
for one called Saul of Tarsus." Acts ix. 11.

INQUIRE
In*quire", v. t.

1. To ask about; to seek to know by asking; to make examination or
inquiry respecting.
Having thus at length inquired the truth concerning law and dispense.
Milton.
And all obey and few inquire his will. Byron.

2. To call or name. [Obs.] Spenser.

Syn.
 -- To ask; question. See Question.

INQUIRENT
In*quir"ent, a. Etym: [L. inquirens, p. pr.]

Defn: Making inquiry; inquiring; questioning. [Obs.] Shenstone.

INQUIRER
In*quir"er, n. Etym: [Written also enquirer.]

Defn: One who inquires or examines; questioner; investigator. Locke.
Expert inquirers after truth. Cowper.

INQUIRING
In*quir"ing, a.

Defn: Given to inquiry; disposed to investigate causes; curious; as,
an inquiring mind.

INQUIRINGLY
In*quir"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inquiring manner.

INQUIRY
In*quir"y, n.; pl. Inquiries. Etym: [See Inquire.] [Written also
enquiry.]

1. The act of inquiring; a seeking for information by asking
questions; interrogation; a question or questioning.
He could no path nor track of foot descry, Nor by inquiry learn, nor
guess by aim. Spenser.
The men which were sent from Cornelius had made inquiry for Simon's
house, and stood before the gate. Acts x. 17.

2. Search for truth, information, or knoledge; examination into facts
or principles; research; invextigation; as, physical inquiries.
All that is wanting to the perfection of this art will undoubtedly be
found, if able men . . . will make inquiry into it. Dryden.
Court of inquiry. See under Court.
 -- Writ of inquiry, a writ issued in certain actions at law, where
the defendant has suffered judgment to pass against him by default,
in order to ascertain and assess the plaintiff's damages, where they
can not readily be ascertained by mere calculation. Burrill.

Syn.
 -- Interrogation; interrogatory; question; query; scrutiny;
investigation; research; examination.

INQUISIBLE
In*quis"i*ble, a.

Defn: Admitting judicial inquiry. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

INQUISITION
In`qui*si"tion, n. Etym: [L. inquisitio : cf. F. inquisition. See
Inquire, and cf. Inquest.]

1. The act of inquiring; inquiry; search; examination; inspection;
investigation.
As I could learn through earnest inquisition. Latimer.
Let not search and inquisition quail To bring again these foolish
runaways. Shak.

2. (Law)
(a) Judicial inquiry; official examination; inquest.
(b) The finding of a jury, especially such a finding under a writ of
inquiry. Bouvier.
The justices in eyre had it formerly in charge to make inquisition
concerning them by a jury of the county. Blackstone.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A court or tribunal for the examination and punishment of
heretics, fully established by Pope Gregory IX. in 1235. Its
operations were chiefly confined to Spain, Portugal, and their
dependencies, and a part of Italy.

INQUISITION
In`qui*si"tion, v. t.

Defn: To make inquisistion concerning; to inquire into. [Obs.]
Milton.

INQUISITIONAL
In`qui*si"tion*al, a. Etym: [LL. inquisitionalis.]

Defn: Relating to inquiry or inquisition; inquisitorial; also, of or
pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Inquisition.
All the inquisitional rigor . . . executed upon books. Milton.

INQUISITIONARY
In`qui*si"tion*a*ry, (, a. Etym: [Cf. F. inquisitionnaire.] [R.]

Defn: Inquisitional.

INQUISITIVE
In*quis"i*tive, a. Etym: [OE. inquisitif, F. inquisitif.]

1. Disposed to ask questions, especially in matters which do not
concern the inquirer.
A wise man is not inquisitive about things impertinent. Broome.

2. Given to examination, investigation, or research; searching;
curious.
A young, inquisitive, and sprightly genius. I. Watts.

Syn.
 -- Inquiring; prying; curious; meddling; intrusive.
 -- Inquisitive, Curious, Prying. Curious denotes a feeling, and
inquisitive a habit. We are curious when we desire to learn something
new; we are inquisitive when we set ourselves to gain it by inquiry
or research. Prying implies inquisitiveness, and is more commonly
used in a bad sense, as indicating a desire to penetrate into the
secrets of others.
[We] curious are to hear, What happens new. Milton.
This folio of four pages [a newspaper], happy work! Which not even
critics criticise; that holds Inquisitive attention, while I read.
Cowper.
Nor need we with a prying eye survey The distant skies, to find the
Milky Way. Creech.

INQUISITIVE
In*quis"i*tive, n.

Defn: A person who is inquisitive; one curious in research. Sir W.
Temple.

INQUISITIVELY
In*quis"i*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inquisitive manner.
The occasion that made him afterwards so inquisitively apply himself
to the study of physic. Boyle.

INQUISITIVENESS
In*quis"i*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inquisitive; the disposition to
seek explanation and information; curiosity to learn what is unknown;
esp., uncontrolled and impertinent curiosity.
Mr. Boswell, whose inquisitiveness is seconded by great activity,
scrambled in at a high window. Johnson.
Curiosity in children nature has provided, to remove that ignorance
they were born with; which, without this busy inquisitiveness, will
make them dull. Locke.

INQUISITOR
In*quis"i*tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. inquisiteur. See Inquire.]

1. An inquisitive person; one fond of asking questions. [R.]
"Inquisitors are tatlers." Feltham.

2. (Law)

Defn: One whose official duty it is to examine and inquire, as
coroners, sheriffs, etc. Mozley & W.

3. (R.C.Ch.)

Defn: A member of the Court of Inquisition.

INQUISITORIAL
In*quis`i*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. inquisitorial.]

1. Pertaining to inquisition; making rigorous and unfriendly inquiry;
searching; as, inquisitorial power. "Illiberal and inquisitorial
abuse." F. Blackburne.
He conferred on it a kind of inquisitorial and censorious power even
over the laity, and directed it to inquire into all matters of
conscience. Hume.

2. Pertaining to the Court of Inquisition or resembling its
practices. "Inquisitorial robes." C. Buchanan.

INQUISITORIALLY
In*quis`i*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inquisitorial manner.

INQUISITORIOUS
In*quis`i*to"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Making strict inquiry; inquisitorial. [Obs.] Milton.

INQUISITURIENT
In*quis`i*tu"ri*ent, a.

Defn: Inquisitorial. [Obs.] "Our inquisiturient bishops." Milton.

INRACINATE
In*rac"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + F. racine root: cf. F.
enraciner.]

Defn: To enroot or implant.

INRAIL
In*rail", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inrailed; p. pr. & vb. n. Inrailing.]

Defn: To rail in; to inclose or surround, as with rails. Hooker.

INREGISTER
In*reg"is*ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inreristered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inregistering.] Etym: [Pref. in- in + register: cf. F. enregistrer.
Cf. Enregister.]

Defn: To register; to enter, as in a register. [R.] Walsh.

IN REM
In rem. [L.] (Law) Lit., in or against a (or the) thing; -- used:
 (a) Of any right (called right, or jus, in rem) of such a nature as
to be available over its subject without reference to one person more
than another, or, as generally expressed, a right competent, or
available, against all persons. Rights in rem include not alone
rights over physical property, but all rights available against all
persons indifferently, as those of life, liberty, and reputation.
 (b) Of actions for recovering or reducing to possession or enjoyment
a specific object, as in the enforcement of maritime liens against a
vessel, which is made the defendant by a sort of personification.
Most actions for the specific recovery of property in English and
American law are in the nature of actions in personam against a
person alleged to be unlawfully withholding the property.

INRO
In"ro, n. [Jap. inro; in seal + ro box.]

Defn: A small closed receptacle or set of receptacles of hard
material, as lacquered wood, iron, bronze, or ivory, used by the
Japanese to hold medicines, perfumes, and the like, and carried in
the girdle. It is usually secured by a silk cord by which the wearer
may grasp it, which cord passes through an ornamental button or knob
called a netsuke.

INROAD
In"road`, n.

Defn: The entrance of an enemy into a country with purposes of
hostility; a sudden or desultory incursion or invasion; raid;
encroachment.
The loss of Shrewsbury exposed all North Wales to the daily inroads
of the enemy. Clarendon.
With perpetual inroads to alarm, Though inaccessible, his fatal
throne. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Invasion; incursion; irruption. See Invasion.

INROAD
In*road", v.t [imp. & p. p. Inroaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Inroading.]

Defn: To make an inroad into; to invade. [Obs.]
The Saracens . . . conquered Spain, inroaded Aquitaine. Fuller.

INROLL
In*roll", v. t.

Defn: See Enroll.

INRUNNING
In"run`ning, n.

Defn: The act or the place of entrance; an inlet. Tennyson.

INRUSH
In"rush`, n.

Defn: A rush inwards; as, the inrush of the tide. G. Eliot.

INRUSH
In*rush", v. i.

Defn: To rush in. [Obs.] Holland.

INSABBATATI
In*sab`ba*ta"ti, n. pl. Etym: [LL. Insabatati. See 1st In-, and
Sabot.]

Defn: The Waldenses; -- so called from their peculiary cut or marked
sabots, or shoes.

INSAFETY
In*safe"ty, n.

Defn: Insecurity; danger. [Obs.]

INSALIVATION
In*sal`i*va"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The mixing of the food with the saliva and other secretions of
the mouth in eating.

INSALUBRIOUS
In`sa*lu"bri*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + salubrious: cf. L.
insalubris, F. insalubre.]

Defn: Not salubrious or healthful; unwholesome; as, an insalubrious
air or climate.

INSALUBRITY
In`sa*lu"bri*ty, n. Etym: [Cf.F. insalubrite.]

Defn: Unhealthfulness; unwholesomeness; as, the insalubrity of air,
water, or climate. Boyle.

INSALUTARY
In*sal"u*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. insaluteris : cf. F. insalutaire. See
In- not, and Salutary.]

1. Not salutary or wholesome; unfavorable to health.

2. Not tending to safety; productive of evil.

INSANABILITY
In*san`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being insanable or incurable; insanableness.

INSANABLE
In*san"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. insanabilis; cf. OF. insanable. See In-
not, and Sanable.]

Defn: Not capable of being healed; incurable; irremediable.

INSANABLENESS
In*san"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being insanable; insanability; incurableness.

INSANABLY
In*san"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an incurable manner.

INSANE
In*sane", a. Etym: [L. insanus. See In- not, and Sane.]

1. Exhibiting unsoundness or disorded of mind; not sane; mad;
deranged in mind; delirious; distracted. See Insanity, 2.

2. Used by, or appropriated to, insane persons; as, an insane
hospital.

3. Causing insanity or madness. [R.]
Or have we eaten on the insaneroot That takes the reason prisoner
Shak.

4. Characterized by insanity or the utmost folly; chimerical;
unpractical; as, an insane plan, attempt, etc.
I know not which was the insane measure. Southey.

INSANELY
In*sane"ly, adv.

Defn: Without reason; madly; foolishly.

INSANENESS
In*sane"ness, n.

Defn: Insanity; madness.

INSANIATE
In*sa"ni*ate, v. t.

Defn: To render unsound; to make mad. [Obs.] Feltham.

INSANIE
In*sa"nie, n.

Defn: Insanity. [Obs.] Shak.

INSANITARY
In*san"i*ta*ry, a.

Defn: Not sanitary; unhealthy; as, insanitary conditions of drainage.

INSANITATION
In*san`i*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Lack of sanitation; careless or dangerous hygienic conditions.

INSANITY
In*san"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. insanitas unsoundness; cf. insania
insanity, F. insanite.]

1. The state of being insane; unsoundness or derangement of mind;
madness; lunacy.
All power of fancy overreason is a degree of insanity. Johnson.
Without grace The heart's insanity admits no cure. Cowper.

2. (Law)

Defn: Such a mental condition, as, either from the existence of
delusions, or from incapacity to distinguish between right and wrong,
with regard to any matter under action, does away with individual
responsibility.

Syn. - Insanity, Lunacy, Madness, Derangement, Aliention, Aberration,
Mania, Delirium, Frenzy, Monomania, Dementia. Insanity is the generic
term for all such diseases; lunacy has now an equal extent of
meaning, though once used to denote periodical insanity; madness has
the same extent, though originally referring to the rage created by
the disease; derangement, alienation, are popular terms for insanity;
delirium, mania, and frenzy denote excited states of the disease;
dementia denotes the loss of mental power by this means; monomania is
insanity upon a single subject.

INSAPORY
In*sa"po*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + sapor.]

Defn: Tasteless; unsavory. [R.] Sir T. Herbert.

INSATIABILITY
In*sa`tia*bil"i*ty, n., Etym: [L. insatiabilitas; cf. F.
insatiabilite.]

Defn: The state or quality of being insatiable; insatiableness.
Eagerness for increase of possession deluges the soul, and we sink
into the gulfs of insatiability. Rambler.

INSATIABLE
In*sa"tia*ble, a. Etym: [F. insatiable, L. ionsatiabilis. See In-
not, and Satiable.]

Defn: Not satiable; incapable of being satisfied or appeased; very
greedy; as, an insatiable appetite, thirst, or desire.
"Insatiable of glory." Milton.

INSATIABLENESS
In*sa"tia*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Greediness of appetite that can not be satisfied or appeased;
insatiability.
The eye of the covetous hath a more particular insatiableness. Bp.
Hall.

INSATIABLY
In*sa"tia*bly, adv.

Defn: In an insatiable manner or degree; unappeasably. "Insatiably
covetous." South.

INSATIATE
In*sa"ti*ate, a. Etym: [L. insatiatus.]

Defn: Insatiable; as, insatiate thirst.
The insatiate greediness of his desires. Shak.
And still insatiate, thirsting still for blood. Hook.

INSATIATELY
In*sa"ti*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: Insatiably. Sir T. Herbert.

INSATIATENESS
In*sa"ti*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being insatiate.

INSATIETY
In`sa*ti"e*ty, n. Etym: [L. insatietas: cf. F. insatiete. See
Satiety.]

Defn: Insatiableness. T. Grander.

INSATISFACTION
In*sat`is*fac"tion, n.

1. Insufficiency; emptiness. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. Dissatisfaction. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

INSATURABLE
In*sat"u*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. insaturabilis: cf. F. insaturable. See
In- not, and Saturable.]

Defn: Not capable of being saturated or satisfied.

INSCIENCE
In"science, n. Etym: [L. inscientia: cf.F. inscience.]

Defn: Want of knowledge; ignorance. [Obs.]

INSCIENT
In"scient, a. Etym: [L. insciens, -entis, ignorant. See In- not, and
Scient, Science.]

Defn: Having little or no knowledge; ignorant; stupid; silly. [R.] N.
Bacon.

INSCIENT
In"scient, a. Etym: [Pref. in- in + L. sciens knowing.]

Defn: Having knowledge or insight; intelligent. [R.]
Gaze on, with inscient vision, toward the sun. Mrs. Browning.

INSCONCE
In*sconce", v. t.

Defn: See Ensconce.

INSCRIBABLE
In*scrib"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being inscribed, -- used specif. (Math.) of solids
or plane figures capable of being inscribed in other solids or
figures.

INSCRIBABLENESS
In*scrib"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being inscribable.

INSCRIBE
In*scribe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inscribed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inscribing.] Etym: [L. inscribere. See 1st In-, and Scribe.]

1. To write or engrave; to mark down as something to be read; to
imprint.
Inscribe a verse on this relenting stone. Pope.

2. To mark with letters, charakters, or words.
O let thy once lov'd friend inscribe thy stone. Pope.

3. To assign or address to; to commend to by a shot address; to
dedicate informally; as, to inscribe an ode to a friend. Dryden.

4. To imprint deeply; to impress; to stamp; as, to inscribe a
sentence on the memory.

5. (Geom.)

Defn: To draw within so as to meet yet not cut the boundaries.

Note: A line is inscribed in a circle, or in a sphere, when its two
ends are in the circumference of the circle, or in the surface of the
sphere. A triangle is inscribed in another triangle, when the three
angles of the former are severally on the three sides of the latter.
A circle is inscribed in a polygon, when it touches each side of the
polygon. A sphere is inscribed in a polyhedron, when the sphere
touches each boundary plane of the polyhedron. The latter figure in
each case is circumscribed about the former.

INSCRIBER
In*scrib"er, n.

Defn: One who inscribes. Pownall.

INSCRIPTIBLE
In*scrip"ti*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being inscribed; inscribable.

INSCRIPTION
In*scrip"tion, n. Etym: [L. inscriptio, fr.inscribere, inscriptum, to
inscribe: cf. F. inscription. See Inscribe.]

1. The act or process of inscribing.

2. That which is inscribed; something written or engraved;
especially, a word or words written or engraved on a solid substance
for preservation or public inspection; as, inscriptions on monuments,
pillars, coins, medals, etc.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: A line of division or intersection; as, the tendinous
inscriptions, or intersections, of a muscle.

4. An address, consignment, or informal dedication, as of a book to a
person, as a mark of respect or an invitation of patronage.

INSCRIPTIVE
In*scrip"tive, a.

Defn: Bearing inscription; of the character or nature of an
inscription.

INSCROLL
In*scroll", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inscrolled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inscrolling.]

Defn: To write on a scroll; to record. [Written also inscrol.] Shak.

INSCRUTABILITY
In*scru`ta*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inscrutable; inscrutableness.

INSCRUTABLE
In*scru"ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. inscrutabilis : cf. F. inscrutable. See
In- not, and Scrutiny.]

Defn: Unsearchable; incapable of being searched into and understood
by inquiry or study; impossible or difficult to be explained or
accounted for satisfactorily; obscure; incomprehensible; as, an
inscrutable design or event.
'T is not in man To yield a reason for the will of Heaven Which is
inscrutable. Beau. & Fl.
Waiving a question so inscrutable as this. De Quincey.

INSCRUTABLENESS
In*scru"ta*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inscrutable; inscrutability.

INSCRUTABLY
In*scru"ta*bly, adv.

Defn: In an inscrutable manner.

INSCULP
In*sculp", v. t. Etym: [L. insculpere: cf. F. insculper. See 1st In-,
and Sculptor.]

Defn: To engrave; to carve; to sculpture. [Obs. & R.] Shak.
Which he insculped in two likely stones. Drayton.

INSCULPTION
In*sculp"tion, n.

Defn: Inscription. [Obs.]

INSCULPTURE
In*sculp"ture, n.

Defn: An engraving, carving, or inscription. [Obs.]
On his gravestone this insculpture. Shak.

INSCULPTURED
In*sculp"tured, p. a.

Defn: Engraved. Glover.

INSEAM
In*seam", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inseamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Inseaming.]

Defn: To impress or mark with a seam or cicatrix. Pope.

INSEARCH
In*search", v. t.

Defn: To make search after; to investigate or examine; to ensearch.
[Obs.]

INSECABLE
In*sec"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. insecabilis; pref. in- not + secabilis
that may be cut: cf. F. insecable.]

Defn: Incapable of being divided by cutting; indivisible.

INSECT
In"sect, n. Etym: [F.insecte, L. insectum, fr. insectus, p.p. of
insecare to cut in. See Section. The name was originally given to
certain small animals, whose bodies appear cut in, or almost divided.
Cf. Entomology.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Insecta; esp., one of the Hexapoda. See Insecta.

Note: The hexapod insects pass through three stages during their
growth, viz., the larva, pupa, and imago or adult, but in some of the
orders the larva differs little from the imago, except in lacking
wings, and the active pupa is very much like the larva, except in
having rudiments of wings. In the higher orders, the larva is usually
a grub, maggot, or caterpillar, totally unlike the adult, while the
pupa is very different from both larva and imago and is inactive,
taking no food.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any air-breathing arthropod, as a spider or scorpion.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any small crustacean. In a wider sense, the word is often
loosely applied to various small invertebrates.

4. Fig.: Any small, trivial, or contemptible person or thing.
Thomson. Insect powder,a powder used for the extermination of
insects; esp., the powdered flowers of certain species of Pyrethrum,
a genus now merged in Chrysanthemum. Called also Persian powder.

INSECT
In"sect, a.

1. Of or pertaining to an insect or insects.

2. Like an insect; small; mean; ephemeral.

INSECTA
In*sec"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Insect.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the classes of Arthropoda, including those that have one
pair of antennæ, three pairs of mouth organs, and breathe air by
means of tracheæ, opening by spiracles along the sides of the body.
In this sense it includes the Hexapoda, or six-legged insects and the
Myriapoda, with numerous legs. See Insect, n.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: In a more restricted sense, the Hexapoda alone. See Hexapoda.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: In the most general sense, the Hexapoda, Myriapoda, and
Arachnoidea, combined.

Note: The typical Insecta, or hexapod insects, are divided into
several orders, viz.: Hymenoptera, as the bees and ants; Diptera, as
the common flies and gnats; Aphaniptera, or fleas; Lepidoptera, or
moths and butterflies; Neuroptera, as the ant-lions and hellgamite;
Coleoptera, or beetles; Hemiptera, as bugs, lice, aphids; Orthoptera,
as grasshoppers and cockroaches; Pseudoneuroptera, as the dragon
flies and termites; Euplexoptera, or earwings; Thysanura, as the
springtails, podura, and lepisma. See these words in the Vocabulary.

INSECTARY
In"sec*ta*ry, n.

Defn: A place for keeping living insects.
 -- In`sec*ta"ri*um, n. Etym: [L.]

INSECTATION
In`sec*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. insectatio. See Insectator.]

Defn: The act of pursuing; pursuit; harassment; persecution. [Obs.]
Sir T. More.

INSECTATOR
In`sec*ta"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. insectari to pursue, freq. fr.
insequi. See Ensue.]

Defn: A pursuer; a persecutor; a censorious critic. [Obs.] Bailey.

INSECTED
In"sect*ed, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, having the nature of, or resembling, an insect.
Howell.

INSECTICIDE
In*sec"ti*cide, n. Etym: [Insect + L. caedere to kill.]

Defn: An agent or preparation for destroying insects; an insect
powder.
 -- In*sec"ti*ci`dal, a.

INSECTILE
In*sec"tile, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or having the nature of, insects. Bacon.

INSECTION
In*sec"tion, n. Etym: [See Insect.]

Defn: A cutting in; incisure; incision.

INSECTIVORA
In`sec*tiv"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. insectum an insect +
vorare to devour.] (Zoöl.)

1. An order of mammals which feed principally upon insects.

Note: They are mostly of small size, and their molar teeth have sharp
cusps. Most of the species burrow in the earth, and many of those of
cold climates hibernate in winter. The order includes the moles,
shrews, hedgehogs, tanrecs, and allied animals, also the colugo.

2. A division of the Cheiroptera, including the common or insect-
eating bats.

INSECTIVORE
In*sec"ti*vore, n.; pl. Insectivores (-vorz). Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Insectivora.

INSECTIVOROUS
In`sec*tiv"o*rous, a. Etym: [See Insectivora.]

Defn: Feeding or subsisting on insects; carnivorous. The term is
applied: (a) to

Defn: plants which have some special adaptation for catching and
digesting insects, as the sundew, Venus's flytrap, Sarracenia, etc.
(b) to

Defn: the Insectivora, and to many bats, birds, and reptiles.

INSECTOLOGER
In`sec*tol"o*ger, n.

Defn: An entomologist. [Obs.]

INSECTOLOGY
In`sec*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Insect + -logy: cf. F. insectologie.]

Defn: Entomology. [Obs.]

INSECURE
In`se*cure", a.

1. Not secure; not confident of safety or permanence; distrustful;
suspicious; apprehensive of danger or loss.
With sorrow and insecure apprehensions. Jer. Taylor.

2. Not effectually guarded, protected, or sustained; unsafe;
unstable; exposed to danger or loss. Bp. Hurg.
The trade with Egypt was exceedingly insecure and precarious. Mickle.

INSECURELY
In`se*cure"ly, adv.

Defn: In an insecure manner.

INSECURENESS
In`se*cure"ness, n.

Defn: Insecurity.

INSECURITY
In`se*cu"ri*ty, n.; pl. Insecurities. Etym: [Pref.in- not + security
: cf. LL. insecuritas, F. insecurite.]

1. The condition or quality of being insecure; want of safety;
danger; hazard; as, the insecurity of a building liable to fire;
insecurity of a debt.

2. The state of feeling insecure; uncertainty; want of confidence.
With what insecurity of truth we ascribe effects . . . unto arbitrary
calculations. Sir T. Browne.
A time of insecurity, when interests of all sorts become objects of
speculation. Burke.

INSECUTION
In`se*cu"tion, n. Etym: [L. insecutio, fr. insequi p. p. insecutus.
See Ensue.]

Defn: A following after; close pursuit. [Obs.] Chapman.

INSEMINATE
In*sem"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. inseminatus, p. p. of inseminare to
sow. See Seminate.]

Defn: To sow; to impregnate. [Obs.]

INSEMINATION
In*sem`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: A sowing. [Obs.]

INSENSATE
In*sen"sate, a. Etym: [L. insensatus. See In- not, and Sensate.]

Defn: Wanting sensibility; destitute of sense; stupid; foolish.
The silence and the calm Of mute, insensate things. Wordsworth.
The meddling folly or insensate ambition of statesmen. Buckle.
-- In*sen"sate*ly, adv.
 -- In*sen"sate*ness, n.

INSENSE
In*sense", v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + sense.]

Defn: To make to understand; to instruct. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

INSENSIBILITY
In*sen`si*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. insensibilité.]

1. The state or quality of being insensible; want of sensibility;
torpor; unconsciousness; as, the insensibility produced by a fall, or
by opiates.

2. Want of tenderness or susceptibility of emotion or passion;
dullness; stupidity.

Syn.
 -- Dullness; numbness; unfeelingness; stupidity; torpor; apathy;
impassiveness; indifference.

INSENSIBLE
In*sen"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. insensibilis: cf. F. insensible. See In-
not, and Sensible.]

1. Destitute of the power of feeling or perceiving; wanting bodily
sensibility. Milton.

2. Not susceptible of emotion or passion; void of feeling; apathetic;
unconcerned; indifferent; as, insensible to danger, fear, love, etc.;
-- often used with of or to.
Accept an obligation without being a slave to the giver, or
insensible to his kindness. Sir H. Wotton.
Lost in their loves, insensible of shame. Dryden.

3. Incapable of being perceived by the senses; imperceptible. Hence:
Progressing by imperceptible degrees; slow; gradual; as, insensible
motion.
Two small and almost insensible pricks were found upon Cleopatra's
arm. Sir T. Browne.
They fall away, And languish with insensible decay. Dryden.

4. Not sensible or reasonable; meaningless. [Obs.]
If it make the indictment be insensible or uncertain, it shall be
quashed. Sir M. Hale.

Syn.
 -- Imperceptible; imperceivable; dull; stupid; torpid; numb;
unfeeling; apathetic; stoical; impassive; indifferent; unsusceptible;
hard; callous.

INSENSIBLENESS
In*sen"si*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Insensibility. Bp. Hall.

INSENSIBLY
In*sen"si*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner not to be felt or perceived; imperceptibly;
gradually.
The hills rise insensibly. Addison.

INSENSITIVE
In*sen"si*tive, a.

Defn: Not sensitive; wanting sensation, or wanting acute sensibility.
Tillotson. Ruskin.

INSENSUOUS
In*sen"su*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + sensuous.]

Defn: Not sensuous; not pertaining to, affecting, or addressing, the
senses.
That intermediate door Betwixt the different planes of sensuous form
And form insensuous. Mrs. Browning.

INSENTIENT
In*sen"ti*ent, a.

Defn: Not sentient; not having perception, or the power of
perception.
The . . . attributes of an insentient, inert substance. Reid.
But there can be nothing like to this sensation in the rose, because
it is insentient. Sir W. Hamilton.

INSEPARABILITY
In*sep`a*ra*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. inseparabilitas: cf. F.
inséparabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being inseparable; inseparableness.
Locke.

INSEPARABLE
In*sep"a*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. inseparabilis: cf. F. inséparable. See
In-, and Separable.]

1. Not separable; incapable of being separated or disjoined.
The history of every language is inseparable from that of the people
by whom it is spoken. Mure.
Liberty and union, now and forever, one and inseparable. D. Webster.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Invariably attached to some word, stem, or root; as, the
inseparable particle un-.

INSEPARABLENESS
In*sep"a*ra*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inseparable; inseparability. Bp.
Burnet.

INSEPARABLY
In*sep"a*ra*bly, adv.

Defn: In an inseparable manner or condition; so as not to be
separable. Bacon.
And cleaves through life inseparably close. Cowper.

INSEPARATE
In*sep"a*rate, a. Etym: [L. inseparatus. See In- not, and Separate.]

Defn: Not separate; together; united. Shak.

INSEPARATELY
In*sep"a*rate*ly, adv.

Defn: Inseparably. [Obs.] Cranmer.

INSERT
In*sert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inserted; p. pr. & vb. n. Inserting.]
Etym: [L. insertus, p. p. of inserere to insert; pref. in- in +
serere to join, connect. See Series.]

Defn: To set within something; to put or thrust in; to introduce; to
cause to enter, or be included, or contained; as, to insert a scion
in a stock; to insert a letter, word, or passage in a composition; to
insert an advertisement in a newspaper.
These words were very weakly inserted where they will be so liable to
misconstruction. Bp. Stillingfleet.

INSERTED
In*sert"ed, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Situated upon, attached to, or growing out of, some part; --
said especially of the parts of the flower; as, the calyx, corolla,
and stamens of many flowers are inserted upon the receptacle. Gray.

INSERTING
In*sert"ing, n.

1. A setting in.

2. Something inserted or set in, as lace, etc., in garments. [R.]

INSERTION
In*ser"tion, n. Etym: [L. insertio: cf. F. insertion. See Insert.]

1. The act of inserting; as, the insertion of scions in stocks; the
insertion of words or passages in writings.

2. The condition or mode of being inserted or attached; as, the
insertion of stamens in a calyx.

3. That which is set in or inserted, especially a narrow strip of
embroidered lace, muslin, or cambric.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: The point or part by which a muscle or tendon is attached to
the part to be moved; -- in contradistinction to its origin.
Epigynous insertion (Bot.), the insertion of stamens upon the ovary.
 -- Hypogynous insertion (Bot.), insertion beneath the ovary.

INSERVE
In*serve", v. i. Etym: [L. inservire; in- in + servire to serve.]

Defn: To be of use to an end; to serve. [Obs.]

INSERVIENT
In*serv"i*ent, a. Etym: [L. inserviens, p. pr. of inservire.]

Defn: Conducive; instrumental. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

INSESSION
In*ses"sion, n. Etym: [L. insessio, fr. insidere, insessum, to sit
in. See Insidious.]

1. The act of sitting, as in a tub or bath. "Used by way of
fomentation, insession, or bath." [R.] Holland.

2. That in which one sits, as a bathing tub. [R.]
Insessions be bathing tubs half full. Holland.

INSESSOR
In*ses"sor, n.; pl. Insessores. Etym: [See Insessores.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Insessores. The group includes most of the common
singing birds.

INSESSORES
In`ses*so"res, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. insessor, lit., one who sits
down, fr. incidere. See Insession.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of birds, formerly established to include the perching
birds, but now generally regarded as an artificial group.

INSESSORIAL
In`ses*so"ri*al, a. (Zoöl.)

1. Pertaining to, or having the character of, perching birds.

2. Belonging or pertaining to the Insessores.

INSET
In*set", v. t.

Defn: To infix. [Obs.] Chaucer.

INSET
In"set, n.

1. That which is inserted or set in; an insertion.

2. (Bookbinding)

Defn: One or more separate leaves inserted in a volume before
binding; as: (a) A portion of the printed sheet in certain sizes of
books which is cut off before folding, and set into the middle of the
folded sheet to complete the succession of paging; -- also called
offcut. (b) A page or pages of advertisements inserted.

INSEVERABLE
In*sev"er*a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being severed; indivisible; inseparable. De
Quincey.

INSHADED
In*shad"ed, a.

Defn: Marked with different shades. W. Browne.

INSHAVE
In"shave`, n. (Mech.)

Defn: A plane for shaving or dressing the concave or inside faces of
barrel staves.

INSHEATHE
In*sheathe", v. t.

Defn: To insert as in a sheath; to sheathe. Hughes.

INSHELL
In*shell", v. t.

Defn: To hide in a shell. [Obs.] Shak.

INSHIP
In*ship", v. t.

Defn: To embark. [Obs.] Shak.

INSHORE
In"shore`, a.

Defn: Being near or moving towards the shore; as, inshore fisheries;
inshore currents.
 -- adv.

Defn: Towards the shore; as, the boat was headed inshore.

INSHRINE
In*shrine", v. t.

Defn: See Enshrine.

INSICCATION
In`sic*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of drying in.

INSIDE
In"side`, prep. or adv.

Defn: Within the sides of; in the interior; contained within; as,
inside a house, book, bottle, etc.

INSIDE
In"side`, a

1. Being within; included or inclosed in anything; contained;
interior; internal; as, the inside passengers of a stagecoach; inside
decoration.
Kissing with inside lip. Shak.

2. Adapted to the interior. Inside callipers (Mech.), callipers for
measuring the diameters of holes, etc.
 -- Inside finish (Arch.), a general term for the final work in any
building necessary for its completion, but other than unusual
decoration; thus, in joiner work, the doors and windows, inside
shutters, door and window trimmings, paneled jams, baseboards, and
sometimes flooring and stairs; in plaster work, the finishing coat,
the cornices, centerpieces, etc.,; in painting, all simple painting
of woodwork and plastering.
 -- Inside track, the inner part of a race course; hence,
colloquially, advantage of place, facilities, etc., in competition.

INSIDE
In"side`, n.

1. The part within; interior or internal portion; content.
Looked he o' the inside of the paper Shak.

2. pl.

Defn: The inward parts; entrails; bowels; hence, that which is
within; private thoughts and feelings.
Here's none but friends; we may speak Our insides freely. Massinger.

3. An inside passenger of a coach or carriage, as distinguished from
one upon the outside. [Colloq. Eng.]
So down thy hill, romantic Ashbourne, glides The Derby dilly,
carrying three insides. Anti-Jacobin.
Patent insides or outside, a name give to newspaper sheets printed on
one side with general and miscellaneous matter, and furnished
wholesale to offices of small newspapers, where the blank pages are
filled up with recent and local news.

INSIDIATE
In*sid"i*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. insidiatus, p. p. of insidiare to lie
in ambush, fr. insidiae. See Insidious.]

Defn: To lie in ambush for. [Obs.] Heywood.

INSIDIATOR
In*sid"i*a`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who lies in ambush. [Obs.] Barrow.

INSIDIOUS
In*sid"i*ous, a. Etym: [L. insidiosus, fr. insidiae an ambush, fr.
insidere to sit in; pref. in- + sedere to sit: cf. F. insidieux. See
Sit.]

1. Lying in wait; watching an opportunity to insnare or entrap;
deceitful; sly; treacherous; -- said of persons; as, the insidious
foe. "The insidious witch." Cowper.

2. Intended to entrap; characterized by treachery and deceit; as,
insidious arts.
The insidious whisper of the bad angel. Hawthorne.
Insidious disease (Med.), a disease existing, without marked
symptoms, but ready to become active upon some slight occasion; a
disease not appearing to be as bad as it really is.

Syn.
 -- Crafty; wily; artful; sly; designing; guileful; circumventive;
treacherous; deceitful; deceptive.
 -- In*sid"i*ous*ly, adv.
 -- In*sid"i*ous*ness, n.

INSIGHT
In"sight`, n.

1. A sight or view of the interior of anything; a deep inspection or
view; introspection; -- frequently used with into.
He had an insight into almost all the secrets of state. Jortin.

2. Power of acute observation and deduction; penetration;
discernment; perception.
Quickest insight In all things that to greatest actions lead. Milton.

INSIGNIA
In*sig"ni*a, n. pl. Etym: [L. insigne, pl. insignia, fr. insignis
distinguished by a mark; pref. in- in + signum a mark, sign. See
Ensign, Sign.]

1. Distinguishing marks of authority, office, or honor; badges;
tokens; decorations; as, the insignia of royalty or of an order.

2. Typical and characteristic marks or signs, by which anything is
known or distinguished; as, the insignia of a trade.

INSIGNIFICANCE
In`sig*nif"i*cance, n.

1. The condition or quality of being insignificant; want of
significance, sense, or meaning; as, the insignificance of words or
phrases.

2. Want of force or effect; unimportance; pettiness; inefficacy; as,
the insignificance of human art.

3. Want of claim to consideration or notice; want of influence or
standing; meanness.
Reduce him, from being the first person in the nation, to a state of
insignificance. Beattie.

INSIGNIFICANCY
In`sig*nif"i*can*cy, n.

Defn: Insignificance.

INSIGNIFICANT
In`sig*nif"i*cant, a.

1. Not significant; void of signification, sense, or import;
meaningless; as, insignificant words.

2. Having no weight or effect; answering no purpose; unimportant;
valueless; futile.
Laws must be insignificant without the sanction of rewards and
punishments. Bp. Wilkins.

3. Without weight of character or social standing; mean;
contemptible; as, an insignificant person.

Syn.
 -- Unimportant; immaterial; inconsiderable; small; inferior;
trivial; mean; contemptible.

INSIGNIFICANTLY
In`sig*nif"i*cant*ly, adv.

Defn: without significance, importance, or effect; to no purpose.
"Anger insignificantly fierce." Cowper.

INSIGNIFICATIVE
In`sig*nif"i*ca*tive, a. Etym: [L. insignificativus. See In- not, and
Significative.]

Defn: Not expressing meaning; not significant.

INSIGNMENT
In*sign"ment, n. Etym: [See Insignia.]

Defn: A token, mark, or explanation. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

INSIMULATE
In*sim"u*late, v. t. Etym: [L. insimulatus, p. p. of insimulare to
accuse.]

Defn: To accuse. [Obs.] Donne.

INSINCERE
In`sin*cere", a. Etym: [L. insincerus. See In- not, and Sincere.]

1. Not being in truth what one appears to be; not sincere;
dissembling; hypocritical; disingenuous; deceitful; false; -- said of
persons; also of speech, thought; etc.; as, insincere declarations.

2. Disappointing; imperfect; unsound. [Obs.]
To render sleep's soft blessings insincere. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Dissembling; hollow; hypocritical; deceptive deceitful; false;
disingenuous; untrustworthy.

INSINCERELY
In`sin*cere"ly, adv.

Defn: Without sincerity.

INSINCERITY
In`sin*cer"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. insincérité.]

Defn: The quality of being insincere; want of sincerity, or of being
in reality what one appears to be; dissimulation; hypocritical;
deceitfulness; hollowness; untrustworthiness; as, the insincerity of
a professed friend; the insincerity of professions of regard.
What men call policy and knowledge of the world, is commonly no other
thing than dissimulation and insincerity. Blair.

INSINEW
In*sin"ew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Insinewed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Insinewing.]

Defn: To strengthen, as with sinews; to invigorate. [Obs.]
All members of our cause, . . . That are insinewed to this action.
Shak.

INSINUANT
In*sin"u*ant, a. Etym: [L. insinuans, p. pr.: cf. F. insinuant.]

Defn: Insinuating; insinuative. [Obs.]

INSINUATE
In*sin"u*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Insinuated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Insinuating.] Etym: [L. insinuatus, p. p. of insinuareto insinuate;
pref. in- in + sinus the bosom. See Sinuous.]

1. To introduce gently or slowly, as by a winding or narrow passage,
or a gentle, persistent movement.
The water easily insinuates itself into, and placidly distends, the
vessels of vegetables. Woodward.

2. To introduce artfully; to infuse gently; to instill.
All the art of rhetoric, besides order and clearness, are for nothing
else but to insinuate wrong ideas, move the passions, and thereby
mislead the judgment. Locke.
Horace laughs to shame all follies and insinuates virtue, rather by
familiar examples than by the severity of precepts. Dryden.

3. To hint; to suggest by remote allusion; -- often used
derogatorily; as, did you mean to insinuate anything

4. To push or work (one's self), as into favor; to introduce by slow,
gentle, or artful means; to ingratiate; -- used reflexively.
He insinuated himself into the very good grace of the Duke of
Buckingham. Clarendon.

Syn.
 -- To instill; hint; suggest; intimate.

INSINUATE
In*sin"u*ate, v. i.

1. To creep, wind, or flow in; to enter gently, slowly, or
imperceptibly, as into crevices.

2. To ingratiate one's self; to obtain access or favor by flattery or
cunning.
He would insinuate with thee but to make thee sigh. Shak.
To insinuate, flatter, bow, and bend my limbs. Shak.

INSINUATING
In*sin"u*a`ting, a.

Defn: Winding, creeping, or flowing in, quietly or stealthily;
suggesting; winning favor and confidence insensibly. Milton.
His address was courteous, and even insinuating. Prescott.

INSINUATINGLY
In*sin"u*a`ting*ly, adv.

Defn: By insinuation.

INSINUATION
In*sin"u*a`tion, n. Etym: [L. insinuatio: cf. F. insinuation.]

1. The act or process of insinuating; a creeping, winding, or flowing
in.
By a soft insinuation mix'd With earth's large mass. Crashaw.

2. The act of gaining favor, affection, or influence, by gentle or
artful means; -- formerly used in a good sense, as of friendly
influence or interposition. Sir H. Wotton.
I hope through the insinuation of Lord Scarborough to keep them here
till further orders. Lady Cowper.

3. The art or power of gaining good will by a prepossessing manner.
He bad a natural insinuation and address which made him acceptable in
the best company. Clarendon.

4. That which is insinuated; a hint; a suggestion or intimation by
distant allusion; as, slander may be conveyed by insinuations.
I scorn your coarse insinuation. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Hint; intimation; suggestion. See Innuendo.

INSINUATIVE
In*sin"u*a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. insinuatif.]

1. Stealing on or into the confidence or affections; having power to
gain favor. "Crafty, insinuative, plausible men." Bp. Reynolds.

2. Using insinuations; giving hints; insinuating; as, insinuative
remark.

INSINUATOR
In*sin"u*a`tor, n. Etym: [L., an introducer.]

Defn: One who, or that which, insinuates. De Foe.

INSINUATORY
In*sin"u*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Insinuative.

INSIPID
In*sip"id, a. Etym: [L. insipidus; pref. in- not + sapidus savory,
fr. sapere to taste: cf. F. insipide. See Savor.]

1. Wanting in the qualities which affect the organs of taste; without
taste or savor; vapid; tasteless; as, insipid drink or food. Boyle.

2. Wanting in spirit, life, or animation; uninteresting; weak; vapid;
flat; dull; heavy; as, an insipid woman; an insipid composition.
Flat, insipid, and ridiculous stuff to him. South.
But his wit is faint, and his salt, if I may dare to say so, almost
insipid. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Tasteless; vapid; dull; spiritless; unanimated; lifeless; flat;
stale; pointless; uninteresting.

INSIPIDITY; INSIPIDNESS
In`si*pid"i*ty, In*sip"id*ness, n. Etym: [Cf. F. insipidité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being insipid; vapidity. "Dryden's
lines shine strongly through the insipidity of Tate's." Pope.

INSIPIDLY
In*sip"id*ly, adv.

Defn: In an insipid manner; without taste, life, or spirit; flatly.
Locke. Sharp.

INSIPIENCE
In*sip"i*ence, n. Etym: [L. insipientia: cf. OF. insipience.]

Defn: Want of intelligence; stupidity; folly. [R.] Blount.

INSIPIENT
In*sip"i*ent, a. Etym: [L. insipiens; pref. in- not + sapiens wise.]

Defn: Wanting wisdom; stupid; foolish. [R.] Clarendon.
 -- n.

Defn: An insipient person. [R.] Fryth.

INSIST
In*sist", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Insisted; p. pr. & vb. n. Insisting.]
Etym: [F. insister, L. insistere to set foot upon, follow, persist;
pref. in- in + sistere to stand, cause to stand. See Stand.]

1. To stand or rest; to find support; -- with in, on, or upon. [R.]
Ray.

2. To take a stand and refuse to give way; to hold to something
firmly or determinedly; to be persistent, urgent, or pressing; to
persist in demanding; -- followed by on, upon, or that; as, he
insisted on these conditions; he insisted on going at once; he
insists that he must have money.
Insisting on the old prerogative. Shak.
Without further insisting on the different tempers of Juvenal and
Horace. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Insist, Persist.
 -- Insist implies some alleged right, as authority or claim. Persist
may be from obstinacy alone, and either with or against rights. We
insist as against others; we persist in what exclusively relates to
ourselves; as, he persisted in that course; he insisted on his
friend's adopting it. C. J. Smith.

INSISTENCE
In*sist"ence, n.

Defn: The quality of insisting, or being urgent or pressing; the act
of dwelling upon as of special importance; persistence; urgency.

INSISTENT
In*sist"ent, a. Etym: [L. insistens, -entis, p. pr. of insistere.]

1. Standing or resting on something; as, an insistent wall. Sir H.
Wotton.

2. Insisting; persistent; persevering.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Incumbent.

INSISTENTLY
In*sist"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an insistent manner.

INSISTURE
In*sis"ture, n.

Defn: A dwelling or standing on something; fixedness; persistence.
[Obs.] Shak.

INSITIENCY
In*si"ti`en*cy, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + L. sitiens, p. pr. of
sitire to be thirsty, fr. sitis thirst.]

Defn: Freedom from thirst. [Obs.]
The insitiency of a camel for traveling in deserts. Grew.

INSITION
In*si"tion, n. Etym: [L. insitio, fr. inserere, insitum, to sow or
plant in, to ingraft; pref. in- in + serere, satum, to sow.]

Defn: The insertion of a scion in a stock; ingraftment. Ray.

IN SITU
In` si"tu. Etym: [L.]

Defn: In its natural position or place; -- said of a rock or fossil,
when found in the situation in which it was originally formed or
deposited.

INSNARE
In*snare", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Insnared; p. pr. & vb. n. Insnaring.]
Etym: [Written also ensnare.]

1. To catch in a snare; to entrap; to take by artificial means.
"Insnare a gudgeon." Fenton.

2. To take by wiles, stratagem, or deceit; to involve in difficulties
or perplexities; to seduce by artifice; to inveigle; to allure; to
entangle.
The insnaring charms Of love's soft queen. Glover.

INSNARER
In*snar"er, n.

Defn: One who insnares.

INSNARL
In*snarl", v. t.

Defn: To make into a snarl or knot; to entangle; to snarl. [Obs.]
Cotgrave.

INSOBRIETY
In`so*bri"e*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + : cf. F. insobriété.]

Defn: Want of sobriety, moderation, or calmness; intemperance;
drunkenness.

INSOCIABILITY
In*so`cia*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. insociabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being insociable; want of sociability;
unsociability. [R.] Bp. Warburton.

INSOCIABLE
In*so"cia*ble, a. Etym: [L. insociabilis: cf. F. insociable. See In-
not, and Sociable.]

1. Incapable of being associated, joined, or connected. [Obs.]
Lime and wood are insociable. Sir H. Wotton.

2. Not sociable or companionable; disinclined to social intercourse
or conversation; unsociable; taciturn.
This austere insociable life. Shak.

INSOCIABLY
In*so"cia*bly, adv.

Defn: Unsociably.

INSOCIATE
In*so"ci*ate, a.

Defn: Not associate; without a companion; single; solitary; recluse.
[Obs.] "The insociate virgin life." B. Jonson.

INSOLATE
In"so*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Insolated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Insolating.] Etym: [L. insolatus, p. p. of insolare to expose to the
sun; pref. in- in + sol the sun.]

Defn: To dry in, or to expose to, the sun's rays; to ripen or prepare
by such exposure. Johnson.

INSOLATION
In`so*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. insolatio: cf. F. insolation.]

1. The act or process to exposing to the rays of the sun fro the
purpose of drying or maturing, as fruits, drugs, etc., or of
rendering acid, as vinegar.

2. (Med.)
(a) A sunstroke.
(b) Exposure of a patient to the sun's rays; a sun bath.

INSOLE
In"sole`, n.

Defn: The inside sole of a boot or shoe; also, a loose, thin strip of
leather, felt, etc., placed

INSOLENCE
In"so*lence, n. Etym: [F. insolence, L. insolentia. See Insolent.]

1. The quality of being unusual or novel. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. The quality of being insolent; pride or haughtiness manifested in
contemptuous and overbearing treatment of others; arrogant contempt;
brutal imprudence.
Flown with insolence and wine. Milton.

3. Insolent conduct or treatment; insult.
Loaded with fetters and insolences from the soldiers. Fuller.

INSOLENCE
In"so*lence, v. t.

Defn: To insult. [Obs.] Eikon Basilike.

INSOLENCY
In"so*len*cy, n.

Defn: Insolence. [R.] Evelyn.

INSOLENT
In"so*lent, a. Etym: [F. insolent, L. insolens, -entis, pref. in- not
+ solens accustomed, p. pr. of solere to be accustomed.]

1. Deviating from that which is customary; novel; strange; unusual.
[Obs.]
If one chance to derive any word from the Latin which is insolent to
their ears . . . they forth with make a jest at it. Petti
If any should accuse me of being new or insolent. Milton.

2. Haughty and contemptuous or brutal in behavior or language;
overbearing; domineering; grossly rude or disrespectful; saucy; as,
an insolent master; an insolent servant. "A paltry, insolent fellow."
Shak.
Insolent is he that despiseth in his judgment all other folks as in
regard of his value, of his cunning, of his speaking, and of his
bearing. Chaucer.
Can you not see or will ye not observe . . . How insolent of late he
is become, How proud, how peremptory Shak.

3. Proceeding from or characterized by insolence; insulting; as,
insolent words or behavior.
Their insolent triumph excited . . . indignation. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Overbearing; insulting; abusive; offensive; saucy; impudent;
audacious; pert; impertinent; rude; reproachful; opprobrious.
 -- Insolent, Insulting. Insolent, in its primitive sense, simply
denoted unusual; and to act insolently was to act in violation of the
established rules of social intercourse. He who did this was
insolent; and thus the word became one of the most offensive in our
language, indicating gross disregard for the feelings of others.
Insulting denotes a personal attack, either in words or actions,
indicative either of scorn or triumph. Compare Impertinent, Affront,
Impudence.

INSOLENTLY
In"so*lent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an insolent manner.

INSOLIDITY
In`so*lid"i*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + solidity: cf. F.
insolidité.]

Defn: Want of solidity; weakness; as, the insolidity of an argument.
[R.] Dr. H. More.

INSOLUBILITY
In*sol`u*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. insolubilitas: cf. F. insolubilité.]

1. The quality or state of being insoluble or not dissolvable, as in
a fluid.

2. The quality of being inexplicable or insolvable.

INSOLUBLE
In*sol"u*ble, a. Etym: [L. insolubilis indissoluble, that can not be
loosed: cf. F. insoluble. See In- not, and Soluble, and cf.
Insolvable.]

1. Not soluble; in capable or difficult of being dissolved, as by a
liquid; as, chalk is insoluble in water.

2. Not to be solved or explained; insolvable; as, an insoluble doubt,
question, or difficulty.

3. Strong. "An insoluble wall." [Obs.] Holland

INSOLUBLENESS
In*sol"u*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being insoluble; insolubility. Boyle.

INSOLVABLE
In*solv"a*ble, a.

1. Not solvable; insoluble; admitting no solution or explanation; as,
an insolvable problem or difficulty. I. Watts.

2. Incapable of being paid or discharged, as debts.

3. Not capable of being loosed or disentangled; inextricable. "Bands
insolvable." Pope.

INSOLVENCY
In*sol"ven*cy, n.; pl. Insolvencies (. (Law)
(a) The condition of being insolvent; the state or condition of a
person who is insolvent; the condition of one who is unable to pay
his debts as they fall due, or in the usual course of trade and
business; as, a merchant's insolvency.
(b) Insufficiency to discharge all debts of the owner; as, the
insolvency of an estate. Act of insolvency. See Insolvent law under
Insolvent, a.

INSOLVENT
In*sol"vent, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + solvent: cf. OF. insolvent.]
(Law)
(a) Not solvent; not having sufficient estate to pay one's debts;
unable to pay one's debts as they fall due, in the ordinary course of
trade and business; as, in insolvent debtor.
(b) Not sufficient to pay all the debts of the owner; as, an
insolvent estate.
(c) Relating to persons unable to pay their debts. Insolvent law, or
Act of insolvency, a law affording relief, -- subject to various
modifications in different States, -- to insolvent debtors, upon
their delivering up their property for the benefit of their
creditors. See Bankrupt law, under Bankrupt, a.

INSOLVENT
In*sol"vent, n. (Law)

Defn: One who is insolvent; as insolvent debtor; -- in England,
before 1861, especially applied to persons not traders. Bouvier.

INSOMNIA
In*som"ni*a, n. Etym: [L., fr. insomnis sleepless; pref. in- not +
somnus sleep.]

Defn: Want of sleep; inability to sleep; wakefulness; sleeplessness.

INSOMNIOUS
In*som"ni*ous, a. Etym: [L. insomniosus, fr. insomnia insomnia.]

Defn: Restless; sleepless. Blount.

INSOMNOLENCE
In*som"no*lence, n.

Defn: Sleeplessness.

INSOMUCH
In`so*much", adv.

Defn: So; to such a degree; in such wise; -- followed by that or as,
and formerly sometimes by both. Cf. Inasmuch.
Insomusch as that field is called . . . Aceldama. Acts i. 19.
Simonides was an excellent poet, insomuch that he made his fortune by
it. L'Estrange.

INSONOROUS
In`so*no"rous, a.

Defn: Not clear or melodious.

INSOOTH
In*sooth", adv.

Defn: In sooth; truly. [Archaic]

INSOUCIANCE
In`sou`ciance", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Carelessness; heedlessness; thoughtlessness; unconcern.

INSOUCIANT
In`sou`ciant", a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Careless; heedless; indifferent; unconcerned. J. S. Mill.

INSOUL
In*soul", v. t.

Defn: To set a soul in; reflexively, to fix one's strongest
affections on. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
[He] could not but insoul himself in her. Feltham.

INSPAN
In*span", v. t. & i. Etym: [D. inspannen.]

Defn: To yoke or harness, as oxen to a vehicle. [South Africa]

INSPECT
In*spect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inspected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inspecting.] Etym: [L. inspectus, p. p. of inspicere to inspect;
pref. in- in + specere to look at, to view: cf. F. inspecter, fr. L.
inspectare, freq. fr. inspicere. See Spy.]

1. To look upon; to view closely and critically, esp. in order to
ascertain quality or condition, to detect errors, etc., to examine;
to scrutinize; to investigate; as, to inspect conduct.

2. To view and examine officially, as troops, arms, goods offered,
work done for the public, etc.; to oversee; to superintend. Sir W.
Temple.

INSPECT
In*spect", n. Etym: [L. inspectus. See Inspect, v. t.]

Defn: Inspection. [Obs.] Thomson.

INSPECTION
In*spec"tion, n. Etym: [L. inspectio: cf. F. inspection.]

1. The act or process of inspecting or looking at carefully; a strict
or prying examination; close or careful scrutiny; investigation.
Spenser.
With narrow search, and with inspection deep, Considered every
creature. Milton.

2. The act of overseeing; official examination or superintendence.
Trial by inspection (O. Eng. Law), a mode of trial in which the case
was settled by the individual observation and decision of the judge
upon the testimony of his own senses, without the intervention of a
jury. Abbott.

INSPECTIVE
In*spect"ive, a. Etym: [L. inspectivus.]

Defn: Engaged in inspection; inspecting; involving inspection.

INSPECTOR
In*spect"or, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. inspecteur.]

Defn: One who inspects, views, or oversees; one to whom the
supervision of any work is committed; one who makes an official view
or examination, as a military or civil officer; a superintendent; a
supervisor; an overseer. Inspector general (Mil.), a staff officer of
an army, whose duties are those of inspection, and embrace everything
relative to organization, recruiting, discharge, administration,
accountability for money and property, instruction, police, and
discipline.

INSPECTORATE
In*spect"or*ate, n.

Defn: Inspectorship. [R.]

INSPECTORIAL
In`spec*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an inspector or to inspection. [R.]

INSPECTORSHIP
In*spect"or*ship, n.

1. The office of an inspector.

2. The district embraced by an inspector's jurisdiction.

INSPECTRESS
In*spect"ress, n.

Defn: A female inspector.

INSPERSE
In*sperse", v. t. Etym: [L. inspersus, p. p. of inspergere to
sprinkle upon; pref. in- in, on + spargere to sprinkle.]

Defn: To sprinkle; to scatter. [Obs.] Bailey.

INSPERSION
In*sper"sion, n. Etym: [L. inspersio.]

Defn: The act of sprinkling. [Obs.] Chapman.

INSPEXIMUS
In*spex"i*mus, n. Etym: [L., we have inspected.]

Defn: The first word of ancient charters in England, confirming a
grant made by a former king; hence, a royal grant.

INSPHERE
In*sphere", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Insphered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Insphering.] Etym: [Cf. Ensphere.]

Defn: To place in, or as in, an orb a sphere. Cf. Ensphere.
Bright aërial spirits live insphered In regions mild of calm and
serene air. Milton.

INSPIRABLE
In*spir"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being inspired or drawn into the lungs; inhalable;
respirable; admitting inspiration. Harvey.

INSPIRATION
In`spi*ra"tion, n. Etym: [F. inspiration, L. inspiratio. See
Inspire.]

1. The act of inspiring or breathing in; breath; specif. (Physiol.),
the drawing of air into the lungs, accomplished in mammals by
elevation of the chest walls and flattening of the diaphragm; -- the
opposite of expiration.

2. The act or power of exercising an elevating or stimulating
influence upon the intellect or emotions; the result of such
influence which quickens or stimulates; as, the inspiration of
occasion, of art, etc.
Your father was ever virtuous, and holy men at their death have good
inspirations. Shak.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: A supernatural divine influence on the prophets, apostles, or
sacred writers, by which they were qualified to communicate moral or
religious truth with authority; a supernatural influence which
qualifies men to receive and communicate divine truth; also, the
truth communicated.
All Scripture is given by inspiration of God. 2 Tim. iii. 16.
The age which we now live in is not an age of inspiration and
impulses. Sharp.
Plenary inspiration (Theol.), that kind of inspiration which excludes
all defect in the utterance of the inspired message.
 -- Verbal inspiration (Theol.), that kind of inspiration which
extends to the very words and forms of expression of the divine
message.

INSPIRATIONAL
In`spi*ra"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to inspiration.

INSPIRATIONIST
In`spi*ra"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who holds to inspiration.

INSPIRATOR
In"spi*ra`tor, n. (Mach.)

Defn: A kind of injector for forcing water by steam. See Injector,
n., 2.

INSPIRATORY
In*spir"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or aiding, inspiration; as, the inspiratory
muscles.

INSPIRE
In*spire", v. t. Etym: [OE. enspiren, OF. enspirer, inspirer, F.
inspirer, fr. L. inspirare; pref. in- in + spirare to breathe. See
Spirit.]

1. To breathe into; to fill with the breath; to animate.
When Zephirus eek, with his sweete breath, Inspirèd hath in every
holt and health The tender crops. Chaucer.
Descend, ye Nine, descend and sing, The breathing instruments
inspire. Pope.

2. To infuse by breathing, or as if by breathing.
He knew not his Maker, and him that inspired into him an active soul.
Wisdom xv. 11.

3. To draw in by the operation of breathing; to inhale; -- opposed to
expire.
Forced to inspire and expire the air with difficulty. Harvey.

4. To infuse into the mind; to communicate to the spirit; to convey,
as by a divine or supernatural influence; to disclose
preternaturally; to produce in, as by inspiration.
And generous stout courage did inspire. Spenser.
But dawning day new comfort hath inspired. Shak.

5. To infuse into; to affect, as with a superior or supernatural
influence; to fill with what animates, enlivens, or exalts; to
communicate inspiration to; as, to inspire a child with sentiments of
virtue.
Erato, thy poet's mind inspire, And fill his soul with thy celestial
fire. Dryden.

INSPIRE
In*spire", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Inspired; p. pr. & vb. n. Inspiring.]

1. To draw in breath; to inhale air into the lungs; -- opposed to
expire.

2. To breathe; to blow gently. [Obs.]
And when the wind amongst them did inspire, They wavèd like a penon
wide dispread. Spenser.

INSPIRED
In*spired", a.

1. Breathed in; inhaled.

2. Moved or animated by, or as by, a supernatural influence; affected
by divine inspiration; as, the inspired prophets; the inspired
writers.

3. Communicated or given as by supernatural or divine inspiration;
having divine authority; hence, sacred, holy; -- opposed to
uninspired, profane, or secular; as, the inspired writings, that is,
the Scriptures.

INSPIRER
In*spir"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, inspirer. "Inspirer of that holy
flame." Cowper.

INSPIRING
In*spir"ing, a.

Defn: Animating; cheering; moving; exhilarating; as, an inspiring or
scene.

INSPIRIT
In*spir"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inspirited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inspiriting.]

Defn: To infuse new life or spirit into; to animate; to encourage; to
invigorate.
The courage of Agamemnon is inspirited by the love of empire and
ambition. Pope.

Syn.
 -- To enliven; invigorate; exhilarate; animate; cheer; encourage;
inspire.

INSPISSATE
In*spis"sate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inspissated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inspissating.] Etym: [L. inspissatus, p. p. of inspissare to thicken;
pref. in- + spissare to thicken, fr. spissus thick.]

Defn: To thicken or bring to greater consistence, as fluids by
evaporation.

INSPISSATE
In*spis"sate, a. Etym: [L. inspissatus, p. p.]

Defn: Thick or thickened; inspissated. Greenhill.

INSPISSATION
In`spis*sa"tion, n.

Defn: The act or the process of inspissating, or thickening a fluid
substance, as by evaporation; also, the state of being so thickened.

INSTABILITY
In`sta*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Instabilities. Etym: [L. instabilitas: cf.
F. instabilité.]

1. The quality or condition of being unstable; want of stability,
firmness, or steadiness; liability to give way or to fail;
insecurity; precariousness; as, the instability of a building.

2. Lack of determination of fixedness; inconstancy; fickleness;
mutability; changeableness; as, instability of character, temper,
custom, etc. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Inconstancy; fickleness; changeableness; wavering; unsteadiness;
unstableness.

INSTABLE
In*sta"ble, a. Etym: [L. instabilis: cf. F. instable. See In- not,
and Stable, a., and cf. Unstable.]

Defn: Not stable; not standing fast or firm; unstable; prone to
change or recede from a purpose; mutable; inconstant.

INSTABLENESS
In*sta"ble*ness, n.

Defn: Instability; unstableness.

INSTALL
In*stall", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Installed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Installing.] Etym: [F. installer, LL. installare, fr. pref. in- in +
OHG. stal a place, stall, G. stall, akin to E. stall: cf. It.
installare. See Stall.] [Written also instal.]

1. To set in a seat; to give a place to; establish (one) in a place.
She installed her guest hospitably by the fireside. Sir W. Scott.

2. To place in an office, rank, or order; to invest with any charge
by the usual ceremonies; to instate; to induct; as, to install an
ordained minister as pastor of a church; to install a college
president.
Unworthily Thou wast installed in that high degree. Shak.

INSTALLATION
In`stal*la"tion, n. Etym: [F. installation, LL. installatio: cf. It.
installazione. See Install.]

1. The act of installing or giving possession of an office, rank, or
order, with the usual rites or ceremonies; as, the installation of an
ordained minister in a parish.
On the election, the bishop gives a mandate for his installation.
Ayliffe.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: The whole of a system of machines, apparatus, and accessories,
when set up and arranged for practical working, as in electric
lighting, transmission of power, etc.

INSTALLMENT
In*stall"ment, n. Etym: [Written also instalment.]

1. The act of installing; installation.
Take oaths from all kings and magistrates at their installment, to do
impartial justice by law. Milton.

2. The seat in which one is placed. [Obs.]
The several chairs of order, look, you scour; . . . Each fair
installment, coat, and several crest With loyal blazon, evermore be
blest. Shak.

3. A portion of a debt, or sum of money, which is divided into
portions that are made payable at different times. Payment by
installment is payment by parts at different times, the amounts and
times being often definitely stipulated. Bouvier.

INSTAMP
In*stamp", v. t.

Defn: See Enstamp.

INSTANCE
In"stance, n. Etym: [F. instance, L. instantia, fr. instans. See
Instant.]

1. The act or quality of being instant or pressing; urgency;
solicitation; application; suggestion; motion.
Undertook at her instance to restore them. Sir W. Scott.

2. That which is instant or urgent; motive. [Obs.]
The instances that second marriage move Are base respects of thrift,
but none of love. Shak.

3. Occasion; order of occurrence.
These seem as if, in the time of Edward I., they were drawn up into
the form of a law, in the first instance. Sir M. Hale.

4. That which offers itself or is offered as an illustrative case;
something cited in proof or exemplification; a case occurring; an
example.
Most remarkable instances of suffering. Atterbury.

5. A token; a sign; a symptom or indication. Shak. Causes of
instance, those which proceed at the solicitation of some party.
Hallifax.
 -- Court of first instance, the court by which a case is first
tried.
 -- For instance, by way of example or illustration.
 -- Instance Court (Law), the Court of Admiralty acting within its
ordinary jurisdiction, as distinguished from its action as a prize
court.

Syn.
 -- Example; case. See Example.

INSTANCE
In"stance, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Instanced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Instancing.]

Defn: To mention as a case or example; to refer to; to cite; as, to
instance a fact. H. Spenser.
I shall not instance an abstruse author. Milton.

INSTANCE
In"stance, v. i.

Defn: To give an example. [Obs.]
This story doth not only instance in kingdoms, but in families too.
Jer. Taylor.

INSTANCY
In"stan*cy, n.

Defn: Instance; urgency. [Obs.]
Those heavenly precepts which our Lord and Savior with so great
instancy gave. Hooker.

INSTANT
In"stant, a. Etym: [L. instans, -antis, p. pr. of instare to stand
upon, to press upon; pref. in- in, on + stare to stand: cf. F. in.
See Stand.]

1. Pressing; urgent; importunate; earnest.
Rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation; continuing instant in
prayer. Rom. xii. 12.
I am beginning to be very instant for some sort of occupation.
Carlyle.

2. Closely pressing or impending in respect to time; not deferred;
immediate; without delay.
Impending death is thine, and instant doom. Prior.

3. Present; current.
The instant time is always the fittest time. Fuller.

Note: The word in this sense is now used only in dates, to indicate
the current month; as, the tenth of July instant.

INSTANT
In"stant, adv.

Defn: Instantly. [Poetic]
Instant he flew with hospitable haste. Pope.

INSTANT
In"stant, n. Etym: [F. instant, fr. L. instans standing by, being
near, present. See Instant, a.]

1. A point in duration; a moment; a portion of time too short to be
estimated; also, any particular moment.
There is scarce an instant between their flourishing and their not
being. Hooker.

2. A day of the present or current month; as, the sixth instant; --
an elliptical expression equivalent to the sixth of the month
instant, i. e., the current month. See Instant, a., 3.

Syn.
 -- Moment; flash; second.

INSTANTANEITY
In*stan`ta*ne"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. instantanéité.]

Defn: Quality of being instantaneous. Shenstone.

INSTANTANEOUS
In`stan*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. instantané.]

1. Done or occurring in an instant, or without any perceptible
duration of time; as, the passage of electricity appears to be
instantaneous.
His reason saw With instantaneous view, the truth of things. Thomson.

2. At or during a given instant; as, instantaneous acceleration,
velocity, etc. Instantaneous center of rotation (Kinematics), in a
plane or in a plane figure which has motions both of translation and
of rotation in the plane, is the point which for the instant is at
rest.
 -- Instantaneous axis of rotation (Kinematics), in a body which has
motions both of translation and rotation, is a line, which is
supposed to be rigidly united with the body, and which for the
instant is at rest. The motion of the body is for the instant simply
that of rotation about the instantaneous axis.
 -- In`stan*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.
 -- In`stan*ta"ne*ous*ness, n.

INSTANTER
In*stan"ter, adv. Etym: [L., vehemently, earnestly. See Instant, n. &
a.]

Defn: Immediately; instantly; at once; as, he left instanter.

INSTANTLY
In"stant*ly, adv.

1. Without the least delay or interval; at once; immediately.
Macaulay.

2. With urgency or importunity; earnestly; pressingly. "They besought
him instantly." Luke vii. 4.

Syn.
 -- Directly; immediately; at once. See Directly.

INSTAR
In*star", v. t.

Defn: To stud as with stars. [R.] "A golden throne instarred with
gems." J. Barlow.

INSTATE
In*state", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Instated; p. pr. & vb. n. Instating.]

Defn: To set, place, or establish, as in a rank, office, or
condition; to install; to invest; as, to instate a person in
greatness or in favor. Shak.

INSTAURATE
In*stau"rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Instaurated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Instaurating.] Etym: [L. instauratus, p. p. of instaurare to renew.
See 1st In-, and Store.]

Defn: To renew or renovate. [R.]

INSTAURATION
In`stau*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. instauratio: cf. F. instauration.]

Defn: Restoration after decay, lapse, or dilapidation; renewal;
repair; renovation; renaissance.
Some great catastrophe or . . . instauration. T. Burnet.

INSTAURATOR
In"stau*ra`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. instaurateur.]

Defn: One who renews or restores to a former condition. [R.] Dr. H.
More.

INSTAURE
In*staure", v. t. Etym: [See Instaurate.]

Defn: To renew or renovate; to instaurate. [Obs.] Marston.

INSTEAD
In*stead", adv. Etym: [Pref. in- + stead place.]

1. In the place or room; -- usually followed by of.
Let thistles grow of wheat. Job xxxi. 40.
Absalom made Amasa captain of the host instead of Joab. 2 Sam. xvii.
25.

2. Equivalent; equal to; -- usually with of. [R.]
This very consideration to a wise man is instead of a thousand
arguments, to satisfy him, that in those times no such thing was
believed. Tillotson.

INSTEEP
In*steep", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Insteeped; p. pr. & vb. n.
Insteeping.]

Defn: To steep or soak; to drench. [R.] "In gore he lay insteeped."
Shak.

INSTEP
In"step, n. [Formerly also instop, instup.]

1. The arched middle portion of the human foot next in front of the
ankle joint.

2. That part of the hind leg of the horse and allied animals, between
the hock, or ham, and the pastern joint.

INSTIGATE
In"sti*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Instigated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Instigating.] Etym: [L. instigatus, p. p. of instigare to instigate;
pref. in- in + a root akin to G. stechen to prick, E. stick. See
Stick.]

Defn: To goad or urge forward; to set on; to provoke; to incite; --
used chiefly with reference to evil actions; as to instigate one to a
crime.
He hath only instigated his blackest agents to the very extent of
their malignity. Bp. Warburton.

Syn.
 -- To stimulate; urge; spur; provoke; tempt; incite; impel;
encourage; animate.

INSTIGATINGLY
In"sti*ga`ting*ly, adv.

Defn: Incitingly; temptingly.

INSTIGATION
In`sti*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. instigatio: cf. F. instigation.]

Defn: The act of instigating, or the state of being instigated;
incitement; esp. to evil or wickedness.
The baseness and villainy that . . . the instigation of the devil
could bring the sons of men to. South.

INSTIGATOR
In"sti*ga`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. instigateur.]

Defn: One who instigates or incites. Burke.

INSTILL
In*still", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Instilled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Instilling.] Etym: [L. instillare, instillatum; pref. in- in +
stillare to drop, fr. stilla a drop: cf. F. instiller. See Distill.]
[Written also instil.]

Defn: To drop in; to pour in drop by drop; hence, to impart
gradually; to infuse slowly; to cause to be imbibed.
That starlight dews All silently their tears of love instill. Byron.
How hast thou instilled Thy malice into thousands. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To infuse; impart; inspire; implant; inculcate; insinuate.

INSTILLATION
In`stil*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. instillatio: cf. F. instillation.]

Defn: The of instilling; also, that which is instilled. Johnson.

INSTILLATOR
In"stil*la`tor, n.

Defn: An instiller. [R.]

INSTILLATORY
In*stil"la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Belonging to instillation. [R.]

INSTILLER
In*still"er, n.

Defn: One who instills. Skelton.

INSTILLMENT
In*still"ment, n.

Defn: The act of instilling; also, that which is instilled. [Written
also instilment.]

INSTIMULATE
In*stim"u*late, v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- not + stimulate.]

Defn: Not to stimulate; to soothe; to quiet. [Obs.] Cheyne.

INSTIMULATE
In*stim"u*late, v. t. Etym: [L. instimulatus, p. p. instimulare to
stimulate. See 1st In-, and Stimulate.]

Defn: To stimulate; to excite. [Obs.] Cockerman.

INSTIMULATION
In*stim`u*la"tion, n.

Defn: Stimulation.

INSTINCT
In*stinct", a. Etym: [L. instinctus, p. p. of instinguere to
instigate, incite; cf. instigare to instigate. Cf. Instigate,
Distinguish.]

Defn: Urged or sas, birds instinct with life.
The chariot of paternal deity . . . Itself instinct with spirit, but
convoyed By four cherubic shapes. Milton.
A noble performance, instinct with sound principle. Brougham.

INSTINCT
In"stinct, n. Etym: [L. instinctus instigation, impulse, fr.
instinguere to instigate: cf. F. instinct. See Instinct, a.]

1. Natural inward impulse; unconscious, involuntary, or unreasoning
prompting to any mode of action, whether bodily, or mental, without a
distinct apprehension of the end or object to be accomplished.
An instinct is a propensity prior to experience, and independent of
instructions. Paley.
An instinct is a blind tendency to some mode of action, independent
of any consideration, on the part of the agent, of the end to which
the action leads. Whately.
An instinct is an agent which performs blindly and ignorantly a work
of intelligence and knowledge. Sir W. Hamilton.
By a divine instinct, men's minds mistrust Ensuing dangers. Shak.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Specif., the natural, unreasoning, impulse by which an animal
is guided to the performance of any action, without of improvement in
the method.
The resemblance between what originally was a habit, and an instinct
becomes so close as not to be distinguished. Darwin.

3. A natural aptitude or knack; a predilection; as, an instinct for
order; to be modest by instinct.

INSTINCT
In*stinct", v. t.

Defn: To impress, as an animating power, or instinct. [Obs.] Bentley.

INSTINCTION
In*stinc"tion, n.

Defn: Instinct; incitement; inspiration. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

INSTINCTIVE
In*stinc"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. instinctif.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to instinct; derived from, or prompted by,
instinct; of the nature of instinct; determined by natural impulse or
propensity; acting or produced without reasoning, deliberation,
instruction, or experience; spontaneous. "Instinctive motion."
Milton. "Instinctive dread." Cowper.
With taste instinctive give Each grace appropriate. Mason.
Have we had instinctive intimations of the death of some absent
friends Bp. Hall.

Note: The terms instinctive belief, instinctive judgment, instinctive
cognition, are expressions not ill adapted to characterize a belief,
judgment, or cognition, which, as the result of no anterior
consciousness, is, like the products of animal instinct, the
intelligent effect of (as far as we are concerned) an unknown cause.
Sir H. Hamilton.

Syn.
 -- Natural; voluntary; spontaneous; original; innate; inherent;
automatic.

INSTINCTIVELY
In*stinc"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an instinctive manner; by force of instinct; by natural
impulse.

INSTINCTIVITY
In`stinc*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being instinctive, or prompted by instinct. [R.]
Coleridge.

INSTIPULATE
In*stip"u*late, a.

Defn: See Exstipulate.

INSTITUTE
In"sti*tute, p. a. Etym: [L. institutus, p. p. of instituere to place
in, to institute, to instruct; pref. in- in + statuere to cause to
stand, to set. See Statute.]

Defn: Established; organized; founded. [Obs.]
They have but few laws. For to a people so instruct and institute,
very few to suffice. Robynson (More's Utopia).

INSTITUTE
In"sti*tute, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Instituted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Instituting.]

1. To set up; to establish; to ordain; as, to institute laws, rules,
etc.

2. To originate and establish; to found; to organize; as, to
institute a court, or a society.
Whenever any from of government becomes destructive of these ends it
is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it, and to
institute a new government. Jefferson (Decl. of Indep. ).

3. To nominate; to appoint. [Obs.]
We institute your Grace To be our regent in these parts of France.
Shak.

4. To begin; to commence; to set on foot; as, to institute an
inquiry; to institute a suit.
And haply institute A course of learning and ingenious studies. Shak.

5. To ground or establish in principles and rudiments; to educate; to
instruct. [Obs.]
If children were early instituted, knowledge would insensibly
insinuate itself. Dr. H. More.

6. (Eccl. Law)

Defn: To invest with the spiritual charge of a benefice, or the care
of souls. Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- To originate; begin; commence; establish; found; erect; organize;
appoint; ordain.

INSTITUTE
In"sti*tute, n. Etym: [L. institutum: cf. F. institut. See Institute,
v. t. & a.]

1. The act of instituting; institution. [Obs.] "Water sanctified by
Christ's institute." Milton.

2. That which is instituted, established, or fixed, as a law, habit,
or custom. Glover.

3. Hence: An elementary and necessary principle; a precept, maxim, or
rule, recognized as established and authoritative; usually in the
plural, a collection of such principles and precepts; esp., a
comprehensive summary of legal principles and decisions; as, the
Institutes of Justinian; Coke's Institutes of the Laws of England.
Cf. Digest, n.
They made a sort of institute and digest of anarchy. Burke.
To make the Stoics' institutes thy own. Dryden.

4. An institution; a society established for the promotion of
learning, art, science, etc.; a college; as, the Institute of
Technology; also, a building owned or occupied by such an institute;
as, the Cooper Institute.

5. (Scots Law)

Defn: The person to whom an estate is first given by destination or
limitation. Tomlins. Institutes of medicine, theoretical medicine;
that department of medical science which attempts to account
philosophically for the various phenomena of health as well as of
disease; physiology applied to the practice of medicine. Dunglison.

INSTITUTER
In"sti*tu`ter, n.

Defn: An institutor. [R.]

INSTITUTION
In`sti*tu"tion, n. Etym: [L. institutio: cf. F. institution.]

1. The act or process of instituting; as: (a) Establishment;
foundation; enactment; as, the institution of a school.
The institution of God's law is described as being established by
solemn injunction. Hooker.

(b) Instruction; education. [Obs.] Bentley.
(c) (Eccl. Law) The act or ceremony of investing a clergyman with the
spiritual part of a benefice, by which the care of souls is committed
to his charge. Blackstone.

2. That which instituted or established; as:
(a) Established order, method, or custom; enactment; ordinance;
permanent form of law or polity.
The nature of our people, Our city's institutions. Shak.

(b) An established or organized society or corporation; an
establishment, especially of a public character, or affecting a
community; a foundation; as, a literary institution; a charitable
institution; also, a building or the buildings occupied or used by
such organization; as, the Smithsonian Institution.
(c) Anything forming a characteristic and persistent feature in
social or national life or habits.
We ordered a lunch (the most delightful of English institutions, next
to dinner) to be ready against our return. Hawthorne.

3. That which institutes or instructs; a textbook; a system of
elements or rules; an institute. [Obs.]
There is another manuscript, of above three hundred years old, . . .
being an institution of physic. Evelyn.

INSTITUTIONAL
In`sti*tu"tion*al, a.

1. Pertaining to, or treating of, institutions; as, institutional
legends.
Institutional writers as Rousseau. J. S. Mill.

2. Instituted by authority.

3. Elementary; rudimental.

INSTITUTIONARY
In`sti*tu"tion*a*ry, a.

1. Relating to an institution, or institutions.

2. Containing the first principles or doctrines; elemental;
rudimentary.

INSTITUTIST
In"sti*tu`tist, n.

Defn: A writer or compiler of, or a commentator on, institutes. [R.]
Harvey.

INSTITUTIVE
In"sti*tu`tive, a.

1. Tending or intended to institute; having the power to establish.
Barrow.

2. Established; depending on, or characterized by, institution or
order. "Institutive decency." Milton.

INSTITUTIVELY
In"sti*tu`tive*ly adv.

Defn: In conformity with an institution. Harrington.

INSTITUTOR
In"sti*tu`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. instituteur.]

1. One who institutes, founds, ordains, or establishes.

2. One who educates; an instructor. [Obs.] Walker.

3. (Episcopal Church)

Defn: A presbyter appointed by the bishop to institute a rector or
assistant minister over a parish church.

INSTOP
In*stop", v. t.

Defn: To stop; to close; to make fast; as, to instop the seams.
[Obs.] Dryden.

INSTORE
In*store", v. t. Etym: [See Instaurate, Store.]

Defn: To store up; to inclose; to contain. [Obs.] Wyclif.

INSTRATIFIED
In*strat"i*fied, a.

Defn: Interstratified.

INSTROKE
In"stroke`, n.

Defn: An inward stroke; specif., in a steam or other engine, a stroke
in which the piston is moving away from the crank shaft; -- opposed
to outstroke.

INSTRUCT
In*struct", a. Etym: [L. instructus, p. p. of instruere to furnish,
provide, construct, instruct; pref. in- in, struere. See Structure.]

1. Arranged; furnished; provided. [Obs.] "He had neither ship
instruct with oars, nor men." Chapman.

2. Instructed; taught; enlightened. [Obs.] Milton.

INSTRUCT
In*struct", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Instructed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Instructing.]

1. To put in order; to form; to prepare. [Obs.]
They speak to the merits of a cause, after the proctor has prepared
and instructed the same for a hearing. Ayliffe.

2. To form by communication of knowledge; to inform the mind of; to
impart knowledge or information to; to enlighten; to teach; to
discipline.
Schoolmasters will I keep within my house, Fit to instruct her youth.
Shak.

3. To furnish with directions; to advise; to direct; to command; as,
the judge instructs the jury.
She, being before instructed of her mother, said, Give me here John
Baptist's head in a charger. Matt. xiv. 8.
Take her in; instruct her what she has to do. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To teach; educate; inform; train; discipline; indoctrinate;
direct; enjoin.

INSTRUCTER
In*struct"er, n.

Defn: See Instructor.

INSTRUCTIBLE
In*struct"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being instructed; teachable; docible. Bacon.

INSTRUCTION
In*struc"tion, n. Etym: [L. instructio: cf. F. instruction.]

1. The act of instructing, teaching, or furnishing with knowledge;
information.

2. That which instructs, or with which one is instructed; the
intelligence or information imparted; as: (a) Precept; information;
teachings. (b) Direction; order; command. "If my instructions may be
your guide." Shak.

Syn.
 -- Education; teaching; indoctrination; information; advice;
counsel. See Education.

INSTRUCTIONAL
In*struc"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or promoting, instruction; educational.

INSTRUCTIVE
In*struct"ive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. instructif.]

Defn: Conveying knowledge; serving to instruct or inform; as,
experience furnishes very instructive lessons. Addison.
In various talk the instructive hours they past. Pope.
-- In*struct"ive*ly, adv.
 -- In*struct"ive*ness, n.
The pregnant instructiveness of the Scripture. Boyle.

INSTRUCTOR
In*struct"or, n. Etym: [L., a preparer: cf. F. instructeur.] [Written
also instructer.]

Defn: One who instructs; one who imparts knowledge to another; a
teacher.

INSTRUCTRESS
In*struct"ress, n.

Defn: A woman who instructs; a preceptress; a governess. Johnson.

INSTRUMENT
In"stru*ment, n. Etym: [F. instrument, L. instrumentum. See
Instruct.]

1. That by means of which any work is performed, or result is
effected; a tool; a utensil; an implement; as, the instruments of a
mechanic; astronomical instruments.
All the lofty instruments of war. Shak.

2. A contrivance or implement, by which musical sounds are produced;
as, a musical instrument.
Praise him with stringed instruments and organs. Ps. cl. 4.
But signs when songs and instruments he hears. Dryden.

3. (Law)

Defn: A writing, as the means of giving formal expression to some
act; a writing expressive of some act, contract, process, as a deed,
contract, writ, etc. Burrill.

4. One who, or that which, is made a means, or is caused to serve a
purpose; a medium, means, or agent.
Or useful serving man and instrument, To any sovereign state. Shak.
The bold are but the instruments of the wise. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Tool; implement; utensil; machine; apparatus; channel; agent.

INSTRUMENT
In"stru*ment, v. t.

Defn: To perform upon an instrument; to prepare for an instrument;
as, a sonata instrumented for orchestra.

INSTRUMENTAL
In`stru*men"tal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. instrumental.]

1. Acting as an instrument; serving as a means; contributing to
promote; conductive; helpful; serviceable; as, he was instrumental in
conducting the business.
The head is not more native to the heart, The hand more instrumental
to the mouth. Shak.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: Pertaining to, made by, or prepared for, an instrument, esp. a
musical instrument; as, instrumental music, distinguished from vocal
music. "He defended the use of instrumental music in public worship."
Macaulay.
Sweet voices mix'd with instrumental sounds. Dryden.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: Applied to a case expressing means or agency; as, the
instrumental case. This is found in Sanskrit as a separate case, but
in Greek it was merged into the dative, and in Latin into the
ablative. In Old English it was a separate case, but has disappeared,
leaving only a few anomalous forms. Instrumental errors, those errors
in instrumental measurements, etc., which arise, exclusively from
want of mathematical accuracy in an instrument.

INSTRUMENTALISM
In`stru*men"tal*ism, n. (Philos.)

Defn: The view that the sanction of truth is its utility, or that
truth is genuine only in so far as it is a valuable instrument. --
In`stru*men"tal*ist, n.

Instrumentalism views truth as simply the value belonging to certain
ideas in so far as these ideas are biological functions of our
organisms, and psychological functions whereby we direct our choices
and attain our successes.
Josiah Royce.

INSTRUMENTALIST
In`stru*men"tal*ist, n.

Defn: One who plays upon an instrument of music, as distinguished
from a vocalist.

INSTRUMENTALITY
In`stru*men*tal"i*ty, n.; pl. Instrumentalities (.

Defn: The quality or condition of being instrumental; that which is
instrumental; anything used as a means; medium; agency.
The instrumentality of faith in justification. Bp. Burnet.
The discovery of gunpowder developed the science of attack and
defense in a new instrumentality. J. H. Newman.

INSTRUMENTALLY
In`stru*men"tal*ly, adv.

1. By means of an instrument or agency; as means to an end. South.
They will argue that the end being essentially beneficial, the means
become instrumentally so. Burke.

2. With instruments of music; as, a song instrumentally accompanied.
Mason.

INSTRUMENTALNESS
In`stru*men"tal*ness, n.

Defn: Usefulness or agency, as means to an end; instrumentality. [R.]
Hammond.

INSTRUMENTARY
In`stru*men"ta*ry, a.

Defn: Instrumental. [R.]

INSTRUMENTATION
In`stru*men*ta"tion, n.

1. The act of using or adapting as an instrument; a series or
combination of instruments; means; agency.
Otherwise we have no sufficient instrumentation for our human use or
handling of so great a fact. H. Bushnell.

2. (Mus.)
(a) The arrangement of a musical composition for performance by a
number of different instruments; orchestration; instrumental
composition; composition for an orchestra or military band.
(b) The act or manner of playing upon musical instruments;
performance; as, his instrumentation is perfect.

INSTRUMENTIST
In"stru*men`tist, n.

Defn: A performer on a musical instrument; an instrumentalist.

INSTYLE
In*style", v. t.

Defn: To style. [Obs.] Crashaw.

INSUAVITY
In*suav"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. insuavitas: cf. F. insuavité. See In- not,
and Suavity.]

Defn: Want of suavity; unpleasantness. [Obs.] Burton.

INSUBJECTION
In`sub*jec"tion, n.

Defn: Want of subjection or obedience; a state of disobedience, as to
government.

INSUBMERGIBLE
In`sub*mer"gi*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of being submerged; buoyant. [R.]

INSUBMISSION
In`sub*mis"sion, n.

Defn: Want of submission; disobedience; noncompliance.

INSUBORDINATE
In`sub*or"di*nate, a.

Defn: Not submitting to authority; disobedient; rebellious; mutinous

INSUBORDINATION
In`sub*or`di*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. insubordination.]

Defn: The quality of being insubordinate; disobedience to lawful
authority.

INSUBSTANTIAL
In`sub*stan"tial, a.

Defn: Unsubstantial; not real or strong. "Insubstantial pageant."
[R.] Shak.

INSUBSTANTIALITY
In`sub*stan`ti*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: Unsubstantiality; unreality. [R.]

INSUCCATION
In`suc*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. insucare, insucatum, to soak in; pref.
in- + succus, sucus, sap.]

Defn: The act of soaking or moistening; maceration; solution in the
juice of herbs. [Obs.] Coxe.
The medicating and insuccation of seeds. Evelyn.

INSUCCESS
In`suc*cess", n.

Defn: Want of success. [R.] Feltham.

INSUE
In*sue", v. i.

Defn: See Ensue, v. i.

INSUETUDE
In"sue*tude, n. Etym: [L. insuetudo, from insuetus unaccustomed;
pref. in- not + suetus, p. p. of suescere to be accustomed.]

Defn: The state or quality of being unaccustomed; absence of use or
habit.
Absurdities are great or small in proportion to custom or insuetude.
Landor.

INSUFFERABLE
In*suf"fer*a*ble, a.

1. Incapable of being suffered, borne, or endured; insupportable;
unendurable; intolerable; as, insufferable heat, cold, or pain;
insufferable wrongs. Locke.

2. Offensive beyond endurance; detestable.
A multitude of scribblers who daily pester the world with their
insufferable stuff. Dryden.

INSUFFERABLY
In*suf"fer*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner or to a degree beyond endurance; intolerably; as, a
blaze insufferably bright; a person insufferably proud.

INSUFFICIENCE
In`suf*fi"cience, n.

Defn: Insufficiency. Shak.

INSUFFICIENCY
In`suf*fi"cien*cy, n. Etym: [L. insufficientia: cf. F. insuffisance,
whence OE. insuffisance. See Insufficient.]

1. The quality or state of being insufficient; want of sufficiency;
deficiency; inadequateness; as, the insufficiency of provisions, of
an excuse, etc.
The insufficiency of the light of nature is, by the light of
Scripture, . . . fully supplied. Hooker.

2. Want of power or skill; inability; incapacity; incompetency; as,
the insufficiency of a man for an office.

INSUFFICIENT
In`suf*fi"cient, a. Etym: [L. insufficiens, -entis. See In- not, and
Sufficient.]

1. Not sufficient; not enough; inadequate to any need, use, or
purpose; as, the provisions are insufficient in quantity, and
defective in quality. "Insufficient for His praise." Cowper.

2. Wanting in strength, power, ability, capacity, or skill;
incompetent; incapable; unfit; as, a person insufficient to discharge
the duties of an office.

Syn.
 -- Inadequate; scanty; incommensurate; unequal; unfit; incompetent;
incapable; inefficient.

INSUFFICIENTLY
In`suf*fi"cient*ly, adv.

Defn: In an insufficient manner or degree; unadequately.

INSUFFLATE
In*suf"flate, a. [See Insufflation.]

Defn: To blow upon; to breath upon or into; to use insufflation upon.

INSUFFLATION
In`suf*fla"tion, n. Etym: [L. insuffatio: cf. F. insuffation. See In-
in, and Sufflation.]

Defn: The act of breathing on or into anything; especially:
(a) (R. C. Ch.) The breathing upon a person in the sacrament of
baptism to symbolize the inspiration of a new spiritual life.
(b) (Med.) The act of blowing (a gas, powder, or vapor) into any
cavity of the body.

INSUITABLE
In*suit"a*ble, a.

Defn: Unsuitable. [Obs.] -- In*suit`a*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.]

INSULAR
In"su*lar, a. Etym: [L. insularis, fr. insula island: cf. F.
insulaire. See Isle.]

1. Of or pertaining to an island; of the nature, or possessing the
characteristics, of an island; as, an insular climate, fauna, etc.

2. Of or pertaining to the people of an island; narrow;
circumscribed; illiberal; contracted; as, insular habits, opinions,
or prejudices.
The penury of insular conversation. Johnson.

INSULAR
In"su*lar, n.

Defn: An islander. [R.] Berkeley.

INSULARITY
In`su*lar"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. insularité.]

1. The state or quality of being an island or consisting of islands;
insulation.
The insularity of Britain was first shown by Agricola, who sent his
fleet round it. Pinkerton.

2. Narrowness or illiberality of opinion; prejudice; exclusiveness;
as, the insularity of the Chinese or of the aristocracy.

INSULARLY
In"su*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In an insular manner.

INSULARY
In"su*la*ry, a.

Defn: Insular. [Obs.] Howell.

INSULATE
In"su*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Insulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Insulating.] Etym: [L. insulatus insulated, fr. insula island. See
Isle, and cf. Isolate.]

1. To make an island of. [Obs.] Pennant.

2. To place in a detached situation, or in a state having no
communication with surrounding objects; to isolate; to separate.

3. (Elec. & Thermotics)

Defn: To prevent the transfer o Insulating stool (Elec.), a stool
with legs of glass or some other nonconductor of electricity, used
for insulating a person or any object placed upon it.

INSULATED
In"su*la`ted, p. a.

1. Standing by itself; not being contiguous to other bodies;
separated; unconnected; isolated; as, an insulated house or column.
The special and insulated situation of the Jews. De Quincey.

2. (Elect. & Thermotics)

Defn: Separated from other bodies by means of nonconductors of heat
or electricity.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: Situated at so great a distance as to be beyond the effect of
gravitation; -- said of stars supposed to be so far apart that the
affect of their mutual attraction is insensible. C. A. Young.
Insulated wire, wire wound with silk, or covered with other
nonconducting material, for electrical use.

INSULATION
In`su*la"tion, n.

1. The act of insulating, or the state of being insulated; detachment
from other objects; isolation.

2. (Elec. & Thermotics)

Defn: The act of separating a body from others by nonconductors, so
as to prevent the transfer of electricity or of heat; also, the state
of a body so separated.

INSULATOR
In"su*la`tor, n.

1. One who, or that which, insulates.

2. (Elec. & Thermotics)

Defn: The substance or body that insulates; a nonconductor.

INSULITE
In"su*lite, n. (Elec.)

Defn: An insulating material, usually some variety of compressed
cellulose, made of sawdust, paper pulp, cotton waste, etc.

INSULOUS
In"su*lous, a. Etym: [L. insulosus, fr. insula island.]

Defn: Abounding in islands. [R.]

INSULSE
In*sulse", a. Etym: [L. insulsus; pref. in- not + salsus salted, fr.
salire, salsum, to salt.]

Defn: Insipid; dull; stupid. [Obs.] Milton.

INSULSITY
In*sul"si*ty, n. Etym: [L. insulsitas.]

Defn: Insipidity; stupidity; dullness. [Obs.]
The insulsity of mortal tongues. Milton.

INSULT
In"sult, n. Etym: [L. insultus, fr. insilire to leap upon: cf. F.
insulte. See Insult, v. t.]

1. The act of leaping on; onset; attack. [Obs.] Dryden.

2. Gross abuse offered to another, either by word or act; an act or
speech of insolence or contempt; an affront; an indignity.
The ruthless sneer that insult adds to grief. Savage.

Syn.
 -- Affront; indignity; abuse; outrage; contumely. See Affront.

INSULT
In*sult", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Insulted; p. pr. & vb. n. Insulting.]
Etym: [F. insulter, L. insultare, freq. fr. insilire to leap into or
upon; pref. in- in, on + salire to leap. See Salient.]

1. To leap or trample upon; to make a sudden onset upon. [Obs.] Shak.

2. To treat with abuse, insolence, indignity, or contempt, by word or
action; to abuse; as, to call a man a coward or a liar, or to sneer
at him, is to insult him.

INSULT
In*sult", v. i.

1. To leap or jump.
Give me thy knife, I will insult on him. Shak.
Like the frogs in the apologue, insulting upon their wooden king.
Jer. Taylor.

2. To behave with insolence; to exult. [Archaic]
The lion being dead, even hares insult. Daniel.
An unwillingness to insult over their helpless fatuity. Landor.

INSULTABLE
In*sult"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being insulted or affronted. [R.] Emerson.

INSULTATION
In`sul*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. insultatio, fr. insultare: cf. OF.
insultation.]

1. The act of insulting; abusive or insolent treatment; insult.
[Obs.] Feltham.

2. Exultation. [Obs.] Is. xiv. (heading).

INSULTER
In*sult"er, n.

Defn: One who insults. Shak.

INSULTING
In*sult"ing, a.

Defn: Containing, or characterized by, insult or abuse; tending to
insult or affront; as, insulting language, treatment, etc.
 -- In*sult"ing*ly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Insolent; impertinent; saucy; rude; abusive; contemptuous. See
Insolent.

INSULTMENT
In*sult"ment, n.

Defn: Insolent treatment; insult. [Obs.] "My speech of insultment
ended." Shak.

INSUME
In*sume", v. t. Etym: [L. insumere; pre. in- in + sumere to take.]

Defn: To take in; to absorb. [Obs.]

INSUPERABILITY
In*su`per*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being insuperable; insuperableness.

INSUPERABLE
In*su"per*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. insuperabilis: cf. OF. insuperable. See
In- not, and Superable.]

Defn: Incapable of being passed over or surmounted; insurmountable;
as, insuperable difficulties.
And middle natures, how they long to join, Yet never pass the
insuperable line Pope.
The difficulty is enhanced, or is . . . insuperable. I. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- Impassable; insurmountable; unconquerable.
 -- In*su"per*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*su"per*a*bly, adv.

INSUPPORTABLE
In`sup*port"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. insupportabilis: cf. F.
insupportable. See In- not, and Support.]

Defn: Incapable of being supported or borne; unendurable;
insufferable; intolerable; as, insupportable burdens; insupportable
pain.
 -- In`sup*port"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`sup*port"a*bly, adv.

INSUPPOSABLE
In`sup*pos"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being supposed; not supposable; inconceivable.

INSUPPRESSIBLE
In`sup*press"i*ble, a.

Defn: That can not be suppressed or concealed; irrepressible. Young.
 -- In`sup*press"i*bly, adv.

INSUPPRESSIVE
In`sup*press"ive, a.

Defn: Insuppressible. [Obs.] "The insuppressive mettle of our
spirits." Shak.

INSURABLE
In*sur"a*ble, a. Etym: [From Insure.]

Defn: Capable of being insured against loss, damage, death, etc.;
proper to be insured.
The French law annuls the latter policies so far as they exceed the
insurable interest which remained in the insured at the time of the
subscription thereof. Walsh.

INSURANCE
In*sur"ance, n. Etym: [From Insure.]

1. The act of insuring, or assuring, against loss or damage by a
contingent event; a contract whereby, for a stipulated consideration,
called premium, one party undertakes to indemnify or guarantee
another against loss by certain specified risks. Cf. Assurance, n.,
6.

Note: The person who undertakes to pay in case of loss is termed the
insurer; the danger against which he undertakes, the risk; the person
protected, the insured; the sum which he pays for the protection, the
premium; and the contract itself, when reduced to form, the policy.
Johnson's Cyc.

2. The premium paid for insuring property or life.

3. The sum for which life or property is insured.

4. A guaranty, security, or pledge; assurance. [Obs.]
The most acceptable insurance of the divine protection. Mickle.
Accident insurance, insurance against pecuniary loss by reason of
accident to the person.
 -- Endowment insurance or assurance, a combination of life insurance
and investment such that if the person upon whose life a risk is
taken dies before a certain specified time the insurance becomes due
at once, and if he survives, it becomes due at the time specified.
 -- Fire insurance. See under Fire.
 -- Insurance broker, a broker or agent who effects insurance.
 -- Insurance company, a company or corporation whose business it is
to insure against loss, damage, or death.
 -- Insurance policy, a certificate of insurance; the document
containing the contract made by an insurance company with a person
whose property or life is insured.
 -- Life insurance. See under Life.

INSURANCER
In*sur"an*cer, n.

Defn: One who effects insurance; an insurer; an underwriter. [Obs.]
Dryden.
hose bold insurancers of deathless fame. Blair.

INSURANT
In*sur"ant, n.

Defn: The person insured. Champness.

INSURE
In"sure, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Insured; p. pr. & vb. n. Insuring.]
Etym: [OE. ensuren, prob. for assuren, by a change of prefix. See 1st
In-, and Sure, and cf. Assure, Ensure.] [Written also ensure.]

1. To make sure or secure; as, to insure safety to any one.

2. Specifically, to secure against a loss by a contingent event, on
certain stipulated conditions, or at a given rate or premium; to give
or to take an insurance on or for; as, a merchant insures his ship or
its cargo, or both, against the dangers of the sea; goods and
buildings are insured against fire or water; persons are insured
against sickness, accident, or death; and sometimes hazardous debts
are insured.

INSURE
In*sure", v. i.

Defn: To underwrite; to make insurance; as, a company insures at
three per cent.

INSURER
In*sur"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, insures; the person or company that
contracts to indemnify losses for a premium; an underwriter.

INSURGENCE; INSURGENCY
In*sur"gence, In*sur"gen*cy, n.

Defn: A state of insurrection; an uprising; an insurrection.
A moral insurgence in the minds of grave men against the Court of
Rome. G. Eliot.

INSURGENT
In*sur"gent, a. Etym: [L. insurgens, p. pr. of insurgere to rise up;
pref. in- in + surgere to rise. See Surge.]

Defn: Rising in opposition to civil or political authority, or
against an established government; insubordinate; rebellious. "The
insurgent provinces." Motley.

INSURGENT
In*sur"gent, n. Etym: [Cf. F. insurgent.]

Defn: A person who rises in revolt against civil authority or an
established government; one who openly and actively resists the
execution of laws; a rebel.

Syn.
 -- See Rebel.

INSURMOUNTABILITY
In`sur*mount`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being insurmountable.

INSURMOUNTABLE
In`sur*mount"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + surmountable: cf. F.
insurmountable.]

Defn: Incapable of being passed over, surmounted, or overcome;
insuperable; as, insurmountable difficulty or obstacle. Locke.
Hope thinks nothing difficult; despair tells us that difficulty is
insurmountable. I. Watts.

Syn.
 -- Insuperable; impassable; invincible.

INSURMOUNTABLENESS
In`sur*mount"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being insurmountable;
insurmountability.

INSURMOUNTABLY
In`sur*mount"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner or to a degree not to be overcome.

INSURRECTION
In`sur*rec"tion, n. Etym: [L. insurrectio, fr. insurgere,
insurrectum: cf. F. insurrection. See Insurgent.]

1. A rising against civil or political authority, or the established
government; open and active opposition to the execution of law in a
city or state.
It is found that this city of old time hath made insurrection against
kings, and that rebellion and sedition have been made therein. Ezra
iv. 19.

2. A rising in mass to oppose an enemy. [Obs.]

Syn.
 -- Insurrection, Sedition, Revolt, Rebellion, Mutiny. Sedition is
the raising of commotion in a state, as by conspiracy, without aiming
at open violence against the laws. Insurrection is a rising of
individuals to prevent the execution of law by force of arms. Revolt
is a casting off the authority of a government, with a view to put it
down by force, or to substitute one ruler for another. Rebellion is
an extended insurrection and revolt. Mutiny is an insurrection on a
small scale, as a mutiny of a regiment, or of a ship's crew.
I say again, In soothing them, we nourish 'gainst our senate The
cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition. Shak.
Insurrections of base people are commonly more furious in their
beginnings. Bacon.
He was greatly strengthened, and the enemy as much enfeebled, by
daily revolts. Sir W. Raleigh.
Though of their names in heavenly records now Be no memorial, blotted
out and razed By their rebellion from the books of life. Milton.

INSURRECTIONAL
In`sur*rec"tion*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. insurrectionnel.]

Defn: Pertaining to insurrection; consisting in insurrection.

INSURRECTIONARY
In`sur*rec"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, insurrection; rebellious;
seditious.
Their murderous insurrectionary system. Burke.

INSURRECTIONIST
In`sur*rec"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who favors, or takes part in, insurrection; an insurgent.

INSUSCEPTIBILITY
In`sus*cep`ti*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Want of susceptibility, or of capacity to feel or perceive.

INSUSCEPTIBLE
In`sus*cep`ti*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + susceptible: cf. F.
insusceptible.]

Defn: Not susceptible; not capable of being moved, affected, or
impressed; that can not feel, receive, or admit; as, a limb
insusceptible of pain; a heart insusceptible of pity; a mind
insusceptible to flattery.
 -- In`sus*cep`ti*bly adv.

INSUSCEPTIVE
In`sus*cep"tive, a.

Defn: Not susceptive or susceptible. [R.] Rambler.

INSUSURRATION
In*su`sur*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. insusurratio, fr. insusurrare to
whisper into.]

Defn: The act of whispering into something. [Obs.] Johnson.

INSWATHE
In*swathe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inswathed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inswating.]

Defn: To wrap up; to infold; to swathe.
Inswathed sometimes in wandering mist. Tennyson.

INSWEPT
In"swept`, a.

Defn: Narrowed at the forward end; -- said of an automobile frame
when the side members are closer together at the forward end than at
the rear.

INTACT
In*tact", a. Etym: [L. intactus; pref. in- not + tactus, p. p. of
tangere to touch: cf. F. intact. See In- not, and Tact, Tangent.]

Defn: Untouched, especially by anything that harms, defiles, or the
like; uninjured; undefiled; left complete or entire. Buckle.
When all external differences have passed away, one element remains
intact, unchanged, -- the everlasting basis of our common nature, the
human soul. F. W. Robertson.

INTACTIBLE; INTACTABLE
In*tac"ti*ble, In*tac"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Not perceptible to the touch.

INTAGLIATED
In*tagl"ia*ted, a. Etym: [It. intagliato, p. p. of intagliare. See
Intaglio.]

Defn: Engraved in intaglio; as, an intagliated stone. T. Warton.

INTAGLIO
In*tagl"io, n.; pl. E. Intaglius, It. Intagli. Etym: [It., fr.
intagliare to engrave, carve; pref. in- in + tagliare to cut, carve.
See Detail.]

Defn: A cutting or engraving; a figure cut into something, as a gem,
so as to make a design depressed below the surface of the material;
hence, anything so carved or impressed, as a gem, matrix, etc.; --
opposed to cameo. Also used adjectively.

INTAIL
In*tail", v. t.

Defn: See Entail, v. t.

INTAKE
In"take`, n.

1. The place where water or air is taken into a pipe or conduit; --
opposed to outlet.

2. the beginning of a contraction or narrowing in a tube or cylinder.

3. The quantity taken in; as, the intake of air.

INTAMINATED
In*tam"i*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. intaminatus. See Contaminate.]

Defn: Uncontaminated. [Obs.] Wood.

INTANGIBILITY
In*tan`gi*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Intangibilities. Etym: [Cf. F.
intangibilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being intangible; intangibleness.

INTANGIBLE
In*tan"gi*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + tangible: cf. F.
intangible.]

Defn: Not tangible; incapable of being touched; not perceptible to
the touch; impalpable; imperceptible. Bp. Wilkins.
A corporation is an artificial, invisible, intangible being.
Marshall.
-- In*tan"gi*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*tan"gi*bly, adv.

INTANGLE
In*tan"gle, v. t.

Defn: See Entangle.

INTASTABLE
In*tast"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being tasted; tasteless; unsavory. [R.] Grew.

INTEGER
In"te*ger, n. Etym: [L. integer untouched, whole, entire. See
Entire.]

Defn: A complete entity; a whole number, in contradistinction to a
fraction or a mixed number. Complex integer (Theory of Numbers), an
expression of the form a + bsq. root-1, where a and b are real
integers.

INTEGRABILITY
In`te*gra*bil"i*ty, n. (Math.)

Defn: The quality of being integrable.

INTEGRABLE
In"te*gra*ble, a. (Math.)

Defn: Capable of being integrated.

INTEGRAL
In"te*gral, a. Etym: [Cf. F. intégral. See Integer.]

1. Lacking nothing of completeness; complete; perfect; uninjured;
whole; entire.
A local motion keepeth bodies integral. Bacon.

2. Essential to completeness; constituent, as a part; pertaining to,
or serving to form, an integer; integrant.
Ceasing to do evil, and doing good, are the two great integral parts
that complete this duty. South.

3. (Math.)
(a) Of, pertaining to, or being, a whole number or undivided
quantity; not fractional.
(b) Pertaining to, or proceeding by, integration; as, the integral
calculus. Integral calculus. See under Calculus.

INTEGRAL
In"te*gral, n.

1. A whole; an entire thing; a whole number; an individual.

2. (Math.)

Defn: An expression which, being differentiated, will produce a given
differential. See differential Differential, and Integration. Cf.
Fluent. Elliptic integral, one of an important class of integrals,
occurring in the higher mathematics; -- so called because one of the
integrals expresses the length of an arc of an ellipse.

INTEGRALITY
In`te*gral"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intégralité.]

Defn: Entireness. [Obs.] Whitaker.

INTEGRALLY
In"te*gral*ly, adv.

Defn: In an integral manner; wholly; completely; also, by
integration.

INTEGRANT
In"te*grant, a. Etym: [L. integrans, -antis, p. pr. of integrare to
make whole, renew: cf. F. intégrant. See Integrate.]

Defn: Making part of a whole; necessary to constitute an entire
thing; integral. Boyle.
All these are integrant parts of the republic. Burke.
Integrant parts, or particles, of bodies, those smaller particles
into which a body may be reduced without loss of its original
constitution, as by mechanical division.

INTEGRATE
In"te*grate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Integrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Integrating.] Etym: [L. integratus, p. p. of integrare to make whole,
renew: cf. F. intégrer. See Integer, Entire.]

1. To form into one whole; to make entire; to complete; to renew; to
restore; to perfect. "That conquest rounded and integrated the
glorious empire." De Quincey.
Two distinct substances, the soul and body, go to compound and
integrate the man. South.

2. To indicate the whole of; to give the sum or total of; as, an
integrating anemometer, one that indicates or registers the entire
action of the wind in a given time.

3. (Math.)

Defn: To subject to the operation of integration; to find the
integral of.

INTEGRATION
In`te*gra"tion, n. Etym: [L. integratio a renewing, restoring: cf. F.
intégration.]

1. The act or process of making whole or entire.

2. (Math.)

Defn: The operation of finding the primitive function which has a
given function for its differential coefficient. See Integral.

Note: The symbol of integration is summa sum), and the integral is
also regarded as the limiting value of the sum of great numbers of
differentials, when the magnitude of the differentials decreases, and
their number increases indefinitely. See Limit, n. When the summation
is made between specified values of the variable, the result is a
definite integral, and those values of the variable are the limits of
the integral. When the summation is made successively for two or more
variables, the result is a multiple integral.

3. In the theory of evolution: The process by which the manifold is
compacted into the relatively simple and permanent. It is supposed to
alternate with differentiation as an agent in development.

INTEGRATOR
In"te*gra`tor, n. (Math. & Mech.)

Defn: That which integrates; esp., an instrument by means of which
the area of a figure can be measured directly, or its moment of
inertia, or statical moment, etc., be determined.

INTEGRITY
In*teg"ri*ty, n. Etym: [L. integritas: cf. F. intégrité. See Integer,
and cf. Entirety.]

1. The state or quality of being entire or complete; wholeness;
entireness; unbroken state; as, the integrity of an empire or
territory. Sir T. More.

2. Moral soundness; honesty; freedom from corrupting influence or
motive; -- used especially with reference to the fulfillment of
contracts, the discharge of agencies, trusts, and the like;
uprightness; rectitude.
The moral grandeur of independent integrity is the sublimest thing in
nature. Buckminster.
Their sober zeal, integrity. and worth. Cowper.

3. Unimpaired, unadulterated, or genuine state; entire correspondence
with an original condition; purity.
Language continued long in its purity and integrity. Sir M. Hale.

Syn.
 -- Honesty; uprightness; rectitude. See Probity.

INTEGROPALLIAL
In`te*gro*pal"li*al, a. Etym: [L. integer whole + E. pallial.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the pallial line entire, or without a sinus, as certain
bivalve shells.

INTEGUMATION
In*teg`u*ma"tion, n. Etym: [See Integument.]

Defn: That part of physiology which treats of the integuments of
animals and plants.

INTEGUMENT
In*teg"u*ment, n. Etym: [L. integumentum, fr. integere to cover;
pref. in- in, on + tegere to cover: cf. F. intégument. See 1st n-,
and Tegument.]

Defn: That which naturally invests or covers another thing, as the
testa or the tegmen of a seed; specifically (Anat.), a covering which
invests the body, as the skin, or a membrane that invests a
particular.

INTEGUMENTARY
In*teg`u*men"ta*ry, n.

Defn: Belonging to, or composed of, integuments.

INTEGUMENTATION
In*teg`u*men*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of covering with integuments; the state or
manner of being thus covered.

INTELLECT
In"tel*lect, n. Etym: [L. intellectus, fr. intelligere, intellectum,
to understand: cf. intellect. See Intelligent.] (Metaph.)

Defn: The part or faculty of the human soul by which it knows, as
distinguished from the power to feel and to will; sometimes, the
capacity for higher forms of knowledge, as distinguished from the
power to perceive objects in their relations; the power to judge and
comprehend; the thinking faculty; the understanding.

INTELLECTED
In"tel*lect`ed, a.

Defn: Endowed with intellect; having intellectual powers or
capacities. [R.]
In body, and in bristles, they became As swine, yet intellected as
before. Cowper.

INTELLECTION
In`tel*lec"tion, n. Etym: [L. intellectio synecdoche: cf. F.
intellection.]

Defn: A mental act or process; especially: (a) The act of
understanding; simple apprehension of ideas; intuition. Bentley. (b)
A creation of the mind itself. Hickok.

INTELLECTIVE
In`tel*lec"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. intellectif.]

1. Pertaining to, or produced by, the intellect or understanding;
intellectual.

2. Having power to understand, know, or comprehend; intelligent;
rational. Glanvill.

3. Capable of being perceived by the understanding only, not by the
senses.
Intellective abstractions of logic and metaphysics. Milton.

INTELLECTIVELY
In`tel*lec"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intellective manner. [R.] "Not intellectivelly to write."
Warner.

INTELLECTUAL
In`tel*lec"tu*al, a. Etym: [L. intellectualis: cf. F. intellectuel.]

1. Belonging to, or performed by, the intellect; mental; as,
intellectual powers, activities, etc.
Logic is to teach us the right use of our reason or intellectual
powers. I. Watts.

2. Endowed with intellect; having the power of understanding; having
capacity for the higher forms of knowledge or thought; characterized
by intelligence or mental capacity; as, an intellectual person.
Who would lose, Though full of pain, this intellectual being, Those
thoughts that wander through eternity Milton.

3. Suitable for exercising the intellect; formed by, and existing
for, the intellect alone; perceived by the intellect; as,
intellectual employments.

4. Relating to the understanding; treating of the mind; as,
intellectual philosophy, sometimes called "mental" philosophy.

INTELLECTUAL
In`tel*lec"tu*al, n.

Defn: The intellect or understanding; mental powers or faculties.
Her husband, for I view far round, not nigh, Whose higher
intellectual more I shun. Milton.
I kept her intellectuals in a state of exercise. De Quincey.

INTELLECTUALISM
In`tel*lec"tu*al*ism, n.

1. Intellectual power; intellectuality.

2. The doctrine that knowledge is derived from pure reason.

INTELLECTUALIST
In`tel*lec"tu*al*ist, n.

1. One who overrates the importance of the understanding. [R.] Bacon.

2. One who accepts the doctrine of intellectualism.

INTELLECTUALITY
In`tel*lec`tu*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. intellectualitas: cf. F.
intellectualité.]

Defn: Intellectual powers; possession of intellect; quality of being
intellectual.

INTELLECTUALIZE
In`tel*lec"tu*al*ize, v. t.

1. To treat in an intellectual manner; to discuss intellectually; to
reduce to intellectual form; to express intellectually; to idealize.
Sentiment is intellectualized emotion. Lowell.

2. To endow with intellect; to bestow intellectual qualities upon; to
cause to become intellectual.

INTELLECTUALLY
In`tel*lec"tu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intellectual manner.

INTELLIGENCE
In*tel"li*gence, n. Etym: [F. intelligence, L. intelligentia,
intellegentia. See Intelligent.]

1. The act or state of knowing; the exercise of the understanding.

2. The capacity to know or understand; readiness of comprehension;
the intellect, as a gift or an endowment.
And dimmed with darkness their intelligence. Spenser.

3. Information communicated; news; notice; advice.
Intelligence is given where you are hid. Shak.

4. Acquaintance; intercourse; familiarity. [Obs.]
He lived rather in a fair intelligence than any friendship with the
favorites. Clarendon.

5. Knowledge imparted or acquired, whether by study, research, or
experience; general information.
I write as he that none intelligence Of meters hath, nCourt of Love.

6. An intelligent being or spirit; -- generally applied to pure
spirits; as, a created intelligence. Milton.
The great Intelligences fair That range above our mortal state, In
circle round the blessed gate, Received and gave him welcome there.
Tennyson.
Intelligence office, an office where information may be obtained,
particularly respecting servants to be hired.

Syn.
 -- Understanding; intellect; instruction; advice; notice;
notification; news; information; report.

INTELLIGENCER
In*tel"li*gen*cer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, sends or conveys intelligence or news;
a messenger.
All the intriguers in foreign politics, all the spies, and all the
intelligencers . . . acted solely upon that principle. Burke.

INTELLIGENCING
In*tel"li*gen*cing, a.

Defn: Informing; giving information; talebearing. [Obs.] Shak.
That sad intelligencing tyrant. Milton.

INTELLIGENCY
In*tel"li*gen*cy, n.

Defn: Intelligence. [Obs.] Evelyn.

INTELLIGENT
In*tel"li*gent, a. Etym: [L. intelligens, intellegens, -entis, p. pr.
of intelligere, intellegere, to perceive; inter between + legere to
gather, collect, choose: cf. F. intelligent. See Legend.]

1. Endowed with the faculty of understanding or reason; as, man is an
intelligent being.

2. Possessed of intelligence, education, or judgment; knowing;
sensible; skilled; marked by intelligence; as, an intelligent young
man; an intelligent architect; an intelligent answer.

3. Gognizant; aware; communicate. [Obs.]
Intelligent of seasons. Milton.
Which are to France the spies and speculations Intelligent of our
state. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Sensible; understanding. See Sensible.

INTELLIGENTIAL
In*tel`li*gen"tial, a. Etym: [Cf. F. intelligentiel.] [R.]

1. Of or pertaining to the intelligence; exercising or implying
understanding; intellectual. "With act intelligential." Milton.

2. Consisting of unembodied mind; incorporeal.
Food alike those pure Intelligential substances require. Milton.

INTELLIGENTIARY
In*tel`li*gen"tia*ry, n.

Defn: One who gives information; an intelligencer. [Obs.] Holinshed.

INTELLIGENTLY
In*tel"li*gent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intelligent manner; with intelligence.

INTELLIGIBILITY
In*tel`li*gi*bil"i*ty, Etym: [Cf. F. intelligilibilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being intelligible; clearness;
perspicuity; definiteness.

INTELLIGIBLE
In*tel"li*gi*ble, Etym: [L. intellegibilis: cf. F. intelligible. See
Intelligent.]

Defn: Capable of being understood or comprehended; as, an
intelligible account or description; intelligible pronunciation,
writing, etc.
The intelligible forms of ancient poets. Coleridge.

Syn.
 -- Comprehensible; perspicuous; plain; clear.

INTELLIGIBLENESS
In*tel"li*gi*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being intelligible; intelligibility.
Locke.

INTELLIGIBLY
In*tel"li*gi*bly, adv.

Defn: In an intelligible manner; so as to be understood; clearly;
plainly; as, to write or speak intelligibly.

INTEMERATE; INTEMERATED
In*tem"er*ate, In*tem"er*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. intemeratus; pref. in-
not + temeratus defiled.]

Defn: Pure; undefiled. [Obs.]

INTEMERATENESS
In*tem"er*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being unpolluted; purity. [Obs.] Donne.

INTEMPERAMENT
In*tem"per*a*ment, n.

Defn: A bad state; as, the intemperament of an ulcerated part. [R.]
Harvey.

INTEMPERANCE
In*tem"per*ance, n. Etym: [F. intempérance, L. intemperantia. See In-
not, and Temperance.]

1. The act of becoming, or state of being, intemperate; excess in any
kind of action or indulgence; any immoderate indulgence of the
appetites or passions.
God is in every creature; be cruel toward none, neither abuse any by
intemperance. Jer. Taylor.
Some, as thou sawest, by violent stroke shall die, By fire, flood,
famine, by intemperance more In meats and drinks. Milton.

2. Specifically: Habitual or excessive indulgence in alcoholic
liquors.

INTEMPERANCY
In*tem"per*an*cy, n.

Defn: Intemperance. [Obs.]

INTEMPERANT
In*tem"per*ant, a. Etym: [L. intemperans, -antis. See In- not, and
Temperant.]

Defn: Intemperate. [Obs.]
Such as be intemperant, that is, followers of their naughty appetites
and lusts. Udall.

INTEMPERATE
In*tem`per*ate, a. Etym: [L. intemperatus. See In- not, and
Temperate.]

1. Indulging any appetite or passion to excess; immoderate to
enjoyments or exertion.

2. Specifically, addicted to an excessive or habitual use of
alcoholic liquors.

3. Excessive; ungovernable; inordinate; violent; immoderate; as,
intemperate language, zeal, etc.; intemperate weather.
Most do taste through fond intemperate thirst. Milton.
Use not thy mouth to intemperate swearing. Ecclus. xxiii. 13.

INTEMPERATE
In*tem`per*ate, v. t.

Defn: To disorder. [Obs.]

INTEMPERATELY
In*tem`per*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intemperate manner; immoderately; excessively; without
restraint.
The people . . . who behaved very unwisely and intemperately on that
occasion. Burke.

INTEMPERATENESS
In*tem`per*ate*ness, n.

1. The state of being intemperate; excessive indulgence of any
appetite or passion; as, intemperateness in eating or drinking.

2. Severity of weather; inclemency. Boyle.
By unseasonable weather, by intemperateness of the air or meteors.
Sir M. Hale.

INTEMPERATURE
In*tem"per*a*ture, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. intemperature.]

Defn: Intemperateness. [Obs.] Boyle.

INTEMPESTIVE
In`tem*pes"tive, a. Etym: [L. intempestivus: cf. F. intempestif. See
In- not, and Tempestive.]

Defn: Out of season; untimely. [Obs.] Burton.
Intempestive bashfulness gets nothing. Hales.

INTEMPESTIVELY
In`tem*pes"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: Unseasonably. [Obs.]

INTEMPESTIVITY
In*tem`pes*tiv"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. intempestivitas: cf. F.
intempestivité.]

Defn: Unseasonableness; untimeliness. [Obs.] Hales.

INTENABLE
In*ten"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + tenable: cf. F. intenable.]

Defn: Incapable of being held; untenable; not defensible; as, an
intenable opinion; an intenable fortress. [Obs.] Bp. Warburton.

INTEND
In*tend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intended; p. pr. & vb. n. Intending.]
Etym: [OE. entenden to be attentive, F. entendre, fr. L. intendre,
intentum, and intensum, to intend, attend, stretch out, extend; pref.
in- in + tendere to stretch, stretch out. See Tend.]

1. To stretch' to extend; to distend. [Obs.]
By this the lungs are intended or remitted. Sir M. Hale.

2. To strain; to make tense. [Obs.]
When a bow is successively intended and remedied. Cudworth.

3. To intensify; to strengthen. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
Magnetism may be intended and remitted. Sir I. Newton.

4. To apply with energy.
Let him intend his mind, without respite, without rest, in one
direction. Emerson.

5. To bend or turn; to direct, as one's course or journey. [Archaic]
Shak.

6. To fix the mind on; to attend to; to take care of; to superintend;
to regard. [Obs.]
Having no children, she did, with singular care and tenderness,
intend the education of Philip. Bacon.
My soul, not being able to intend two things at once, abated of its
fervency in praying. Fuller.

7. To fix the mind upon (something to be accomplished); to be intent
upon; to mean; to design; to plan; to purpose; -- often followed by
an infinitely with to, or a dependent clause with that; as, he
intends to go; he intends that she shall remain.
They intended evil against thee. Ps. xxi. 11.
To-morrow he intends To hunt the boar with certain of his friends.
Shak.

8. To design mechanically or artistically; to fashion; to mold.
[Obs.]
Modesty was made When she was first intended. Beau. & Fl.

9. To pretend; to counterfeit; to simulate. [Obs.]
Intend a kind of zeal both to the prince and Claudio. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To purpose; mean; design; plan; conceive; contemplate.

INTENDANCY
In*tend"an*cy, n.; pl. Intendancies. Etym: [Cf. F. intendance. See
Intendant.]

1. The office or employment of an intendant.

2. A territorial district committed to the charge of an intendant.

INTENDANT
In*tend"ant, n. Etym: [F. intendant, fr. L. intendere to direct
(one's thoughts) to a thing. See Intend.]

Defn: One who has the charge, direction, or management of some public
business; a superintendent; as, an intendant of marine; an intendant
of finance.

INTENDANT
In*tend"ant, a. Etym: [See Intend.]

Defn: Attentive. [Obs.]

INTENDED
In*tend"ed, a.

1. Made tense; stretched out; extended; forcible; violent. [Obs.]
Spenser.

2. Purposed; designed; as, intended harm or help.
They drew a curse from an intended good. Cowper.

3. Betrothed; affianced; as, an intended husband.

INTENDED
In*tend"ed, n.

Defn: One with whom marriage is designed; one who is betrothed; an
affianced lover.
If it were not that I might appear to disparage his intended, . . . I
would add that to me she seems to be throwing herself away. Dickens.

INTENDEDLY
In*tend"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Intentionally. [R.] Milton.

INTENDENT
In*tend"ent, n.

Defn: See Intendant, n. [Obs.]

INTENDER
In*tend"er, n.

Defn: One who intends. Feltham.

INTENDIMENT
In*tend"i*ment, n. Etym: [LL. intendimentum. See Intendment.]

Defn: Attention; consideration; knowledge; understanding. [Obs.]
Spenser.

INTENDMENT
In*tend"ment, n. Etym: [OE. entendement understanding, insight, F.
entendement, fr. LL. intendimentum. See Intend.]

1. Charge; oversight. [Obs.] Ford.

2. Intention; design; purpose.
The intendment of God and nature. Jer. Taylor.

3. (Law)

Defn: The true meaning, understanding, or intention of a law, or of
any legal instrument.

INTENERATE
In*ten"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intenerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intenerating.] Etym: [Pref. in- in + L. tener soft, tender. See
Tender, a.]

Defn: To make tender or sensitive; to soften.

Fear intenerates the heart. Bp. Hall.
So have I seen the little purls of a stream . . . intenerate the
stubborn pavement. Jer. Taylor.

INTENERATE
In*ten"er*ate, a.

Defn: Made tender or soft; softened. [Obs.]

INTENERATION
In*ten`er*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of intenerating, or the state of being
intenerated; softening. [R.] Bacon.

INTENIBLE
In*ten"i*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + L. tenere to hold: cf. L.
intenibilis not to be grasped. Cf. Intenable.]

Defn: Incapable of holding or containing. [Obs.]
This captious and intenible sieve. Shak.

INTENSATE
In*ten"sate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intensated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intensating.] Etym: [See Intense.]

Defn: To intensify. [R.] Emerson.

INTENSATION
In`ten*sa"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of intensifying; intensification; climax.
[R.] Carlyle.

INTENSATIVE
In*ten"sa*tive, a.

Defn: Adding intensity; intensifying.

INTENSE
In*tense", a. Etym: [L. intensus stretched, tight, p. p. of intendere
to stretch: cf. F. intense. See Intend, and cf. Intent, and cf.
Intent, a.]

1. Strained; tightly drawn; kept on the stretch; strict; very close
or earnest; as, intense study or application; intense thought.

2. Extreme in degree; excessive; immoderate; as: (a) Ardent; fervent;
as, intense heat. (b) Keen; biting; as, intense cold. (c) Vehement;
earnest; exceedingly strong; as, intense passion or hate. (d) Very
severe; violent; as, intense pain or anguish. (e) Deep; strong;
brilliant; as, intense color or light.
In this intense seclusion of the forest. Hawthorne.

INTENSELY
In*tense"ly, adv.

1. Intently. [Obs.] J. Spencer.

2. To an extreme degree; as, weather intensely cold.

INTENSENESS
In*tense"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being intense; intensity; as, the
intenseness of heat or cold; the intenseness of study or thought.

INTENSIFICATION
In*ten`si*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of intensifying, or of making more intense.

INTENSIFIER
In*ten"si*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who or that which intensifies or strengthens; in
photography, an agent used to intensify the lights or shadows of a
picture.

INTENSIFY
In*ten"si*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intensified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intensifying.] Etym: [Intense + -fly.]

Defn: To render more intense; as, to intensify heat or cold; to
intensify colors; to intensify a photographic negative; to intensify
animosity. Bacon.
How piercing is the sting of pride By want embittered and
intensified. Longfellow.

INTENSIFY
In*ten"si*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become intense, or more intense; to act with increasing
power or energy.

INTENSION
In*ten"sion, n. Etym: [L. intensio: cf. F. intension. See Intend, and
cf. Intention.]

1. A straining, stretching, or bending; the state of being strained;
as, the intension of a musical string.

2. Increase of power or energy of any quality or thing; intenseness;
fervency. Jer. Taylor.
Sounds . . . likewise do rise and fall with the intension or
remission of the wind. Bacon.

3. (Logic & Metaph.)

Defn: The collective attributes, qualities, or marks that make up a
complex general notion; the comprehension, content, or connotation; -
- opposed to extension, extent, or sphere.
This law is, that the intension of our knowledge is in the inverse
ratio of its extension. Sir W. Hamilton.

INTENSITIVE
In*ten"si*tive, a.

Defn: Increasing the force or intensity of; intensive; as, the
intensitive words of a sentence. H. Sweet.

INTENSITY
In*ten"si*ty, n. Etym: [LL. intensitas: cf. F. intensité. See
Intense.]

1. The state or quality of being intense; intenseness; extreme
degree; as, intensity of heat, cold, mental application, passion,
etc.
If you would deepen the intensity of light, you must be content to
bring into deeper blackness and more distinct and definite outline
the shade that accompanies it. F. W. Robertson.

2. (Physics)

Defn: The amount or degree of energy with which a force operates or a
cause acts; effectiveness, as estimated by results produced.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: The magnitude of a distributed force, as pressure, stress,
weight, etc., per unit of surface, or of volume, as the case may be;
as, the measure of the intensity of a total stress of forty pounds
which is distributed uniformly over a surface of four square inches
area is ten pounds per square inch.

4. (Photog.)

Defn: The degree or depth of shade in a picture.

INTENSIVE
In*ten"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. intensif. See Intense.]

1. Stretched; admitting of intension, or increase of degree; that can
be intensified. Sir M. Hale.

2. Characterized by persistence; intent; unremitted; assiduous;
intense. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: Serving to give force or emphasis; as, an intensive verb or
preposition.

INTENSIVE
In*ten"sive, n.

Defn: That which intensifies or emphasizes; an intensive verb or
word.

INTENSIVELY
In*ten"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intensive manner; by increase of degree. Abp. Bramhall.

INTENSIVENESS
In*ten"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being intensive; intensity. Sir M.
Hale.

INTENT
In*tent", a. Etym: [L. intentus, p. p. of intendere. See Intend, and
cf. Intense.]

1. Closely directed; strictly attentive; bent; -- said of the mind,
thoughts, etc.; as, a mind intent on self-improvement.

2. Having the mind closely directed to or bent on an object;
sedulous; eager in pursuit of an object; -- formerly with to, but now
with on; as, intent on business or pleasure. "Intent on mischief."
Milton.
Be intent and solicitous to take up the meaning of the speaker. I.
Watts.

INTENT
In*tent", n. Etym: [OE. entent, entente, attention, purpose, OF.
entente, F. entente understanding, meaning; a participial noun, fr.
F. & OF. entendre. See Intend.]

Defn: The act of turning the mind toward an object; hence, a design;
a purpose; intention; meaning; drift; aim.
Be thy intents wicked or charitable. Shak.
The principal intent of Scripture is to deliver the Hooker.
To all intents, and purposes, in all applications or senses;
practically; really; virtually; essentially. "He was miserable to all
intents and purpose." L'Estrange.

Syn.
 -- Design; purpose; intention; meaning; purport; view; drift;
object; end; aim; plan.

INTENTATION
In`ten*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Intention. [Obs.]

INTENTION
In*ten"tion, n. Etym: [F. intention, L. intentio. See Intend, and cf.
Intension.]

1. A stretching or bending of the mind toward of the mind toward an
object; closeness of application; fixedness of attention;
earnestness.
Intention is when the mind, with great earnestness, and of choice,
fixes its view on any idea. Locke.

2. A determination to act in a certain way or to do a certain thing;
purpose; design; as, an intention to go to New York.
Hell is paved with good intentions. Johnson.

3. The object toward which the thoughts are directed; end; aim.
In [chronical distempers], the principal intention is to restore the
tone of the solid parts. Arbuthnot.

4. The state of being strained. See Intension. [Obs.]

5. (Logic)

Defn: Any mental apprehension of an object. First intention (Logic),
a conception of a thing formed by the first or direct application of
the mind to the individual object; an idea or image; as, man, stone.
 -- Second intention (Logic), a conception generalized from first
intuition or apprehension already formed by the mind; an abstract
notion; especially, a classified notion, as species, genus,
whiteness.
 -- To heal by the first intention (Surg.), to cicatrize, as a wound,
without suppuration.
 -- To heal by the second intention (Surg.), to unite after
suppuration.

Syn.
 -- Design; purpose; object; aim; intent; drift; purport; meaning.
See Design.

INTENTIONAL
In*ten"tion*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. intentionnel.]

Defn: Done by intention or design; intended; designed; as, the act
was intentional, not accidental.

INTENTIONALITY
In*ten`tion*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being intentional; purpose; design.
Coleridge.

INTENTIONALLY
In*ten"tion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intentional manner; with intention; by design; of
purpose.

INTENTIONED
In*ten"tioned, a.

Defn: Having designs; -- chiefly used in composition; as, well-
intentioned, having good designs; ill-intentioned, having ill
designs.

INTENTIVE
In*ten"tive, a. Etym: [OE. ententif, OF. ententif, fr. L. intentivus
intensive. See Intent, n., and cf. Intensive.]

Defn: Attentive; intent. [Obs.] Spenser.

INTENTIVELY
In*ten"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: Attentively; closely. [Obs.] "Intentively to observe." Holland.

INTENTIVENESS
In*ten"tive*ness, n.

Defn: Closeness of attention or application of mind; attentiveness.
[Obs.] W. Montagu.

INTENTLY
In*tent"ly, adv.

Defn: In an intent manner; as, the eyes intently fixed.

Syn.
 -- Fixedly; steadfastly; earnestly; attentively; sedulously;
diligently; eagerly.

INTENTNESS
In*tent"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being intent; close application;
attention.
Extreme solicitude or intentness upon business. South.

INTER-
In"ter-. Etym: [L. inter, prep., among, between, a compar. form of in
in; akin to intra, intro, within, Skr. antar between, in, and E.in.
See In, and cf. Entrails, Interior, Enter-, Exterior.]

Defn: A prefix signifying among, between, amid; as, interact,
interarticular, intermit.

INTER
In*ter", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interred; p. pr. & vb. n. Interring.]
Etym: [OE. enteren, OF. enterer, enterrer, LL. interrare; L. pref.
in- in + terra the earth. See Terrace.]

Defn: To deposit and cover in the earth; to bury; to inhume; as, to
inter a dead body. Shak.

INTERACT
In`ter*act", n. Etym: [Pref. inter- + act. Cf. Entr'acte.]

Defn: A short act or piece between others, as in a play; an
interlude; hence, intermediate employment or time. Chesterfield.

INTERACT
In`ter*act", v. i.

Defn: To act upon each other; as, two agents mutually interact.
Emerson. Tyndall.

INTERACTION
In`ter*ac"tion, n.

1. Intermediate action.

2. Mutual or reciprocal action or influence; as, the interaction of
the heart and lungs on each other.

INTERADDITIVE
In`ter*ad"di*tive, a.

Defn: Added or placed between the parts of another thing, as a clause
inserted parenthetically in a sentence.

INTERAGENCY
In`ter*a"gen*cy, n.

Defn: Intermediate agency.

INTERAGENT
In`ter*a"gent, n.

Defn: An intermediate agent.

INTERALL
In"ter*all, n.

Defn: Entrail or inside. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.

INTERALVEOLAR
In`ter*al"ve*o*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between alveoli; as, the interalveolar septa between adjacent
air cells in the lungs.

INTERAMBULACRAL
In`ter*am`bu*la"cral, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the interambulacra.

INTERAMBULACRUM
In`ter*am`bu*la"crum, n.; pl. L. Interambulacra (, E.
Interambulacrums (. (Zoöl.)

Defn: In echinoderms, one of the areas or zones intervening between
two ambulacra. See Illust. of Ambulacrum.

INTERAMNIAN
In`ter*am"ni*an, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + L. amnis river: cf. L.
interamnus.]

Defn: Situated between rivers. [R.] "An interamnian country." J.
Bryant.

INTERANIMATE
In`ter*an"i*mate, v. t.

Defn: To animate or inspire mutually. [Obs.] Donne.

INTERARBORATION
In`ter*ar`bo*ra"tion, n.

Defn: The interweaving of branches of trees. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

INTERARTICULAR
In`ter*ar*tic"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated between joints or articulations; as, interarticular
cartilages and ligaments.

INTERATOMIC
In`ter*a*tom"ic, a. (Chem. & Physics)

Defn: Between atoms; situated, or acting, between the atoms of
bodies; as, interatomic forces.

INTERAULIC
In`ter*au"lic, a.

Defn: Existing between royal courts. [R.] "Interaulic politics."
Motley.

INTERAURICULAR
In`ter*au*ric"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the auricles; as, the interauricular partition of the
heart.

INTERAXAL
In`ter*ax"al, a. (Arch.)

Defn: Situated in an interaxis. Gwilt.

INTERAXILLARY
In`ter*ax"il*la*ry, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Situated within or between the axils of leaves.

INTERAXIS
In`ter*ax"is, n.; pl. Interaxes (. (Arch.)

Defn: The space between two axes. See Axis, 6.
The doors, windows, niches, and the like, are then placed centrally
in the interaxes. Gwilt.

INTERBASTATION
In`ter*bas*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. inter- + baste to sew.]

Defn: Patchwork. [Obs.] Dr. J. Smith.

INTERBRACHIAL
In`ter*brach"i*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Between the arms.

INTERBRAIN
In`ter*brain`, n. (Anat.)

Defn: See Thalamencephalon.

INTERBRANCHIAL
In`ter*bran"chi*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Between the branchiæ.

INTERBREED
In`ter*breed", v. t. & i.

Defn: To breed by crossing different stocks of animals or plants.

INTERCALAR
In*ter"ca*lar, a.

Defn: Intercalary.

INTERCALARY
In*ter"ca*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. intercalaris, intercalarius: cf. F.
intercalaire. See Intercalate.]

1. (Chron.)

Defn: Inserted or introduced among others in the calendar; as, an
intercalary month, day, etc.; -- now applied particularly to the odd
day (Feb. 29) inserted in the calendar of leap year. See Bissextile,
n.

2. Introduced or inserted among others; additional; supernumerary.
"Intercalary spines." Owen.
This intercalary line . . . is made the last of a triplet. Beattie.
Intercalary day (Med.), one on which no paroxysm of an intermittent
disease occurs. Mayne.

INTERCALATE
In*ter"ca*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intercalated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intercalating.] Etym: [L. intercalatus, p. p. of intercalare to
intercalate to intercalate; inter between + calare to call, proclaim.
See Calendar.]

1. (Chron.)

Defn: To insert, as a day or other portion of time, in a calendar.

2. To insert among others, as a verse in a stanza; specif. (Geol.),
to introduce as a bed or stratum, between the layers of a regular
series of rocks.
Beds of fresh-water shells . . . are intercalated and interstratified
with the shale. Mantell.

INTERCALATION
In*ter`ca*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. intercalatio: cf. F. intercalation.]

1. (Chron.)

Defn: The insertion of a day, or other portion of time, in a
calendar.

2. The insertion or introduction of anything among others, as the
insertion of a phrase, line, or verse in a metrical composition;
specif. (Geol.), the intrusion of a bed or layer between other
layers.
Intercalations of fresh-water species in some localities. Mantell.

INTERCAROTID
In`ter*ca*rot"id, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated between the external and internal carotid arteries;
as, an intercarotid ganglion.

INTERCARPAL
In`ter*car"pal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the carpal bone; as, intercarpal articulations,
ligaments.

INTERCARTILAGINOUS
In`ter*car`ti*lag"i*nous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Within cartilage; endochondral; as, intercartilaginous
ossification.

INTERCAVERNOUS
In`ter*cav"ern*ous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the cavernous sinuses; as, the intercavernous sinuses
connecting the cavernous sinuses at the base of the brain.

INTERCEDE
In`ter*cede", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Interceded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interceding.] Etym: [L. intercedere, intercessum; inter between +
cedere to pass: cf. F. intercéder. See Cede.]

1. To pass between; to intervene. [Obs.]
He supposed that a vast period interceded between that origination
and the age wherein he lived. Sir M. Hale.

2. To act between parties with a view to reconcile differences; to
make intercession; to beg or plead in behalf of another; to mediate;
-- usually followed by with and for; as, I will intercede with him
for you.
I to the lords will intercede, not doubting Their favorable ear.
Milton.

Syn.
 -- To mediate; arbitrate. See Interpose.

INTERCEDE
In`ter*cede", v. t.

Defn: To be, to come, or to pass, between; to separate. [Obs.] Sir I.
Newton.

INTERCEDENCE
In`ter*ced"ence, n.

Defn: The act of interceding; intercession; intervention. [R.] Bp.
Reynolds.

INTERCEDENT
In`ter*ced"ent, a. Etym: [L. intercedens, p. pr. of intercedere.]

Defn: Passing between; mediating; pleading. [R.] --
In`ter*ced"ent*ly, adv.

INTERCEDER
In`ter*ced"er, n.

Defn: One who intercedes; an intercessor; a mediator. Johnson.

INTERCELLULAR
In`ter*cel"lu*lar, a.

Defn: Lying between cells or cellules; as, intercellular substance,
space, or fluids; intercellular blood channels.

INTERCENTRAL
In`ter*cen"tral, a.

Defn: Between centers. Intercentral nerves (Physiol.), those nerves
which transmit impulses between nerve centers, as opposed to
peripheral fibers, which convey impulses between peripheral parts and
nerve centers.

INTERCENTRUM
In`ter*cen"trum, n.; pl. Intercentra (. (Anat.)

Defn: The median of the three elements composing the centra of the
vertebræ in some fossil batrachians.

INTERCEPT
In`ter*cept", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intercepted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intercepting.] Etym: [L. interceptus, p. p. of intercipere to
intercept; inter between + capere to take, seize: cf. F. intercepter.
See Capable.]

1. To take or seize by the way, or before arrival at the destined
place; to cause to stop on the passage; as, to intercept a letter; a
telegram will intercept him at Paris.
God will shortly intercept your breath. Joye.

2. To obstruct or interrupt the progress of; to stop; to hinder or
oppose; as, to intercept the current of a river.
Who intercepts me in my expedition Shak.
We must meet first, and intercept his course. Dryden.

3. To interrupt communication with, or progress toward; to cut off,
as the destination; to blockade.
While storms vindictive intercept the shore. Pope.

4. (Math.)

Defn: To include between; as, that part of the intercepted between
the points A and B.

Syn.
 -- To cut off; stop; catch; seize; obstruct.

INTERCEPT
In"ter*cept`, n. (Math.)

Defn: A part cut off or intercepted, as a portion of a line included
between two points, or cut off two straight lines or curves.

INTERCEPTER
In`ter*cept"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, intercepts. Shak.

INTERCEPTION
In`ter*cep"tion, n. Etym: [L. interceptio a taking away: cf. F.
interception.]

Defn: The act of intercepting; as, interception of a letter;
interception of the enemy.

INTERCEPTIVE
In`ter*cept"ive, a.

Defn: Intercepting or tending to intercept.

INTERCESSION
In`ter*ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. intercessio an intervention, a becoming
surety: cf. F. intercession. See Intercede.]

Defn: The act of interceding; mediation; interposition between
parties at variance, with a view to reconcilation; prayer, petition,
or entreaty in favor of, or (less often) against, another or others.
But the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which
can not be uttered. Rom. viii. 26.

INTERCESSIONAL
In`ter*ces"sion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, of the nature of, or characterized by,
intercession or entreaty.

INTERCESSIONATE
In`ter*ces"sion*ate, v. t.

Defn: To entreat. [Obs.]

INTERCESSOR
In`ter*ces"sor, n. Etym: [L., a surety: cf. F. intercesseur.]

1. One who goes between, or intercedes; a mediator. (a) One who
interposes between parties at variance, with a view to reconcile
them. (b) One who pleads in behalf of another. Milton.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A bishop, who, during a vacancy of the see, administers the
bishopric till a successor is installed.

INTERCESSORIAL
In`ter*ces*so"ri*al, a.

Defn: Intercessory.

INTERCESSORY
In`ter*ces"so*ry, a. Etym: [LL. intercessorius.]

Defn: Pertaining to, of the nature of, or characterized by,
intercession; interceding; as, intercessory prayer.

INTERCHAIN
In`ter*chain", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interchained; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interchaining.]

Defn: To link together; to unite closely or firmly, as by a chain.
Two bosoms interchained with an oath. Shak.

INTERCHANGE
In`ter*change", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interchanged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interchanging.] Etym: [OE. entrechangen, OF. entrechangier. See
Inter-, and Change.]

1. To put each in the place of the other; to give and take mutually;
to exchange; to reciprocate; as, to interchange places; they
interchanged friendly offices and services.
I shall interchange My waned state for Henry's regal crown. Shak.

2. To cause to follow alternately; to intermingle; to vary; as, to
interchange cares with pleasures.

INTERCHANGE
In`ter*change", v. i.

Defn: To make an interchange; to alternate. Sir P. Sidney.

INTERCHANGE
In`ter*change", n. Etym: [Cf. OF. entrechange.]

1. The act of mutually changing; the act of mutually giving and
receiving; exchange; as, the interchange of civilities between two
persons. "Interchange of kindnesses." South.

2. The mutual exchange of commodities between two persons or
countries; barter; commerce. Howell.

3. Alternate succession; alternation; a mingling.
The interchanges of light and darkness. Holder.
Sweet interchange Of hill and valley, rivers, woods, and plains.
Milton.

INTERCHANGEABILITY
In`ter*change`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being interchangeable;
interchangeableness.

INTERCHANGEABLE
In`ter*change"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. entrechangeable.]

1. Admitting of exchange or mutual substitution. "Interchangeable
warrants." Bacon.

2. Following each other in alternate succession; as, the four
interchangeable seasons. Holder.
 -- In`ter*change"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In`ter*change"a*bly, adv.

INTERCHANGEMENT
In`ter*change"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. entrechangement.]

Defn: Mutual transfer; exchange. [Obs.] Shak.

INTERCHAPTER
In`ter*chap"ter, n.

Defn: An intervening or inserted chapter.

INTERCIDENCE
In*ter"ci*dence, n. Etym: [See Intercident.]

Defn: The act or state of coming or falling between; occurrence;
incident. [Obs.] Holland.

INTERCIDENT
In*ter"ci*dent, a. Etym: [L. intercidens, -entis, p. pr. of
intercidere to fall between; inter between + cadere to fall.]

Defn: Falling or coming between; happening accidentally. [Obs.]
Boyle.

INTERCIPIENT
In`ter*cip"i*ent, a. Etym: [L. intercipiens, -entis, p. pr. of
intercipere. See Intercept.]

Defn: Intercepting; stopping.
 -- n.

Defn: One who, or that which, intercepts or stops anything on the
passage. Wiseman.

INTERCISION
In`ter*ci"sion, n. Etym: [L. intercisio a cutting through, fr.
intercidere to cut asunder.]

Defn: A cutting off, through, or asunder; interruption. [R.] Sir T.
Browne.

INTERCITIZENSHIP
In`ter*cit"i*zen*ship, n.

Defn: The mutual right to civic privileges, in the different States.
Bancroft.

INTERCLAVICLE
In`ter*clav"i*cle, n. (Anat.)

Defn: See Episternum.

INTERCLAVICULAR
In`ter*cla*vic"u*lar, a. (Anat.)
(a) Between the clavicles; as, the interclavicular notch of the
sternum.
(b) Of or pertaining to the interclavicle.

INTERCLOSE
In`ter*close", v. t. Etym: [Pref. inter- + close. See Interclude.]

Defn: To shut in; to inclose. [Obs.]

INTERCLOUD
In`ter*cloud", v. t.

Defn: To cloud. [R.] Daniel.

INTERCLUDE
In`ter*clude", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intercluded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intercluding.] Etym: [L. intercludere, interclusum; inter between +
claudere to shut. See Close, and cf. Interclose.]

Defn: To shut off or out from a place or course, by something
intervening; to intercept; to cut off; to interrupt. Mitford.
So all passage of external air into the receiver may be intercluded.
Boyle.

INTERCLUSION
In`ter*clu"sion, n. Etym: [L. interclusio. See Interclude.]

Defn: Interception; a stopping

INTERCOLLEGIATE
In`ter*col*le"gi*ate, a.

Defn: Existing or carried on between colleges or universities; as,
intercollegiate relations, rivalry, games, etc.

INTERCOLLINE
In`ter*col"line, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Situated between hills; -- applied especially to valleys lying
between volcanic cones.

INTERCOLONIAL
In`ter*co*lo"ni*al, a.

Defn: Between or among colonies; pertaining to the intercourse or
mutual relations of colonies; as, intercolonial trade.
 -- In`ter*co*lo"ni*al*ly, adv.

INTERCOLUMNAR
In`ter*co*lum"nar, a.

Defn: Between columns or pillars; as, the intercolumnar fibers of
Poupart's ligament; an intercolumnar statue.

INTERCOLUMNIATION
In`ter*co*lum`ni*a"tion, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The clear space between two columns, measured at the bottom of
their shafts. Gwilt.

Note: It is customary to measure the intercolumniation in terms of
the diameter of the shaft, taken also at the bottom. Different words,
derived from the Greek, are in use to denote certain common
proportions. They are: Pycnostyle, when the intercolumniation is of
one and a half diameters; Systyle, of two diameters; Eustyle, of two
and a quarter diameters; Diastyle, of three diameters; Aræostyle, of
four or more, and so great that a wooden architrave has to be used
instead of stone; Aræosystyle, when the intercolumniations are
alternately systyle and aræostyle.

INTERCOMBAT
In`ter*com"bat, n.

Defn: Combat. [Obs.] Daniel.

INTERCOMING
In`ter*com"ing, n.

Defn: The act of coming between; intervention; interference. [Obs.]

INTERCOMMON
In`ter*com"mon, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intercommoned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intercommoning.] Etym: [OF. entrecommuner. See Inter-, and Common,
and cf. Intercommune.]

1. To share with others; to participate; especially, to eat at the
same table. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: To graze cattle promiscuously in the commons of each other, as
the inhabitants of adjoining townships, manors, etc.

INTERCOMMONAGE
In`ter*com"mon*age, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: The right or privilege of intercommoning.

INTERCOMMUNE
In`ter*com*mune", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Intercommuned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intercommuning.] Etym: [Cf. Intercommon, Intercommunicate, Commune.]

1. To intercommunicate. [Obs.]

2. To have mutual communication or intercourse by conservation.
[Scot.]

INTERCOMMUNICABLE
In`ter*com*mu"ni*ca*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being mutually communicated.

INTERCOMMUNICATE
In`ter*com*mu"ni*cate, v. i.

Defn: To communicate mutually; to hold mutual communication.

INTERCOMMUNICATE
In`ter*com*mu"ni*cate, v. t.

Defn: To communicate mutually; to interchange. Holland.

INTERCOMMUNICATION
In`ter*com*mu`ni*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Mutual communication. Owen.

INTERCOMMUNION
In`ter*com*mun"ion, n.

Defn: Mutual communion; as, an intercommunion of deities. Faber.

INTERCOMMUNITY
In`ter*com*mu"ni*ty, n.

Defn: Intercommunication; community of possessions, religion, etc.
In consequence of that intercommunity of paganism . . . one nation
adopted the gods of another. Bp. Warburton.

INTERCOMPARISON
In`ter*com*par"i*son, n.

Defn: Mutual comparison of corresponding parts.

INTERCONDYLAR; INTERCONDYLOID
In`ter*con"dy*lar, In`ter*con"dy*loid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between condyles; as, the intercondylar fossa or notch of the
femur.

INTERCONNECT
In`ter*con*nect", v. t.

Defn: To join together.

INTERCONNECTION
In`ter*con*nec"tion, n.

Defn: Connection between; mutual connection.

INTERCONTINENTAL
In`ter*con`ti*nen"tal, a.

Defn: Between or among continents; subsisting or carried on between
continents; as, intercontinental relations or commerce.

INTERCONVERTIBLE
In`ter*con*vert"i*ble, a.

Defn: Convertible the one into the other; as, coin and bank notes are
interconvertible.

INTERCOSTAL
In`ter*cos"tal, a. (Anat. & Physiol.)

Defn: Between the ribs; pertaining to, or produced by, the parts
between the ribs; as, intercostal respiration, in which the chest is
alternately enlarged and contracted by the intercostal muscles.

INTERCOURSE
In"ter*course, n. Etym: [Formerly entercourse, OF. entrecours
commerce, exchange, F. entrecours a reciprocal right on neighboring
lands, L. intercursus a running between, fr. intercurrere to run
between. See Inter-, and Course.]

Defn: A
This sweet intercourse Of looks and smiles. Milton.
Sexual intercourse, sexual or carnal connection; coition.

Syn.
 -- Communication; connection; commerce; communion; fellowship;
familiarity; acquaintance.

INTERCROP
In"ter*crop`, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. -cropped; p. pr. & vb. n. -
cropping.] (Agric.)

Defn: To cultivate by planting simultaneous crops in alternate rows;
as, to intercrop an orchard. Also, to use for catch crops at seasons
when the ground is not covered by crops of the regular rotation.

INTERCROP
In"ter*crop`, n. (Agric.)

Defn: A crop grown among or between  the rows of another crop; a
catch crop.

INTERCROSS
In`ter*cross", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Intercrossed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intercrossing.]

1. To cross each other, as lines.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: To fertilize by the impregnation of one species or variety by
another; to impregnate by a different species or variety.

INTERCROSS
In"ter*cross`, n.

Defn: The process or result of cross fertilization between different
kinds of animals, or different varieties of plants.
We have reason to believe that occasional intercrosses take place
with all animals and plants. Darwin.

INTERCRURAL
In`ter*cru"ral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between crura; -- applied especially to the interneural plates
in the vertebral column of many cartilaginous fishes.

INTERCUR
In`ter*cur", v. i. Etym: [L. intercurrere. See Intercourse.]

Defn: To intervene; to come or occur in the meantime. [Obs.] Shelton.

INTERCURRENCE
In`ter*cur"rence, n. Etym: [See Intercurrent.]

Defn: A passing or running between; occurrence. Boyle.

INTERCURRENT
In`ter*cur"rent, a. Etym: [L. intercurrens, p. pr. of intercurrere:
cf. F. intercurrent. See Intercur.]

1. Running between or among; intervening. Boyle. Bp. Fell.

2. (Med.)
(a) Not belonging to any particular season.
(b) Said of diseases occurring in the course of another disease.
Dunglison.

INTERCURRENT
In`ter*cur"rent, n.

Defn: Something intervening. Holland.

INTERCUTANEOUS
In`ter*cu*ta"ne*ous, a.

Defn: Subcutaneous.

INTERDASH
In`ter*dash", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interdashed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interdashing.]

Defn: To dash between or among; to intersperse. Cowper.

INTERDEAL
In`ter*deal", v. i.

Defn: To intrigue. [Obs.] Daniel.

INTERDENOMINATIONAL
In`ter*de*nom`i*na"tion*al, a.

Defn: Occurring between or among, or common to, different
denominations; as, interdenominational fellowship or belief.

INTERDENTAL
In`ter*den"tal, a.

1. Situated between teeth; as, an interdental space, the space
between two teeth in a gear wheel.

2. (Phon.)

Defn: Formed between the upper and lower teeth; as, interdental
consonants.

INTERDENTIL
In`ter*den"til, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The space between two dentils. Gwilt.

INTERDEPENDENCE
In`ter*de*pend"ence, n.

Defn: Mutual dependence. "The interdependence of virtue and
knowledge." M. Arnold.

INTERDEPENDENCY
In`ter*de*pend"en*cy, n.

Defn: Mutual dependence; as, interdependency of interests. De
Quincey.

INTERDEPENDENT
In`ter*de*pend"ent, a.

Defn: Mutually dependent.

INTERDICT
In`ter*dict", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interdicted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interdicting.] Etym: [OE. entrediten to forbid communion, L.
interdicere, interdictum. See Interdict, n.]

1. To forbid; to prohibit or debar; as, to interdict intercourse with
foreign nations.
Charged not to touch the interdicted tree. Milton.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: To lay under an interdict; to cut off from the enjoyment of
religious privileges, as a city, a church, an individual.
An archbishop may not only excommunicate and interdict his
suffragans, but his vicar general may do the same. Ayliffe.

INTERDICT
In"ter*dict`, n. Etym: [OE. entredit, enterdit, OF. entredit, F.
interdit, fr. L. interdictum, fr. interdicere to interpose, prohibit;
inter between + dicere to say. See Diction.]

1. A prohibitory order or decree; a prohibition.
These are not fruits forbidden; no interdict Defends the touching of
these viands pure. Milton.

2. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A prohibition of the pope, by which the clergy or laymen are
restrained from performing, or from attending, divine service, or
from administering the offices or enjoying the privileges of the
church.

3. (Scots Law)

Defn: An order of the court of session, having the like purpose and
effect with a writ of injunction out of chancery in England and
America.

INTERDICTION
In`ter*dic"tion, n. Etym: [L. interdictio: cf. F. interdiction.]

Defn: The act of interdicting; prohibition; prohibiting decree;
curse; interdict.
The truest issue of thy throne By his own interdiction stands
accurst. Shak.

INTERDICTIVE
In`ter*dict"ive, a.

Defn: Having the power to prohibit; as, an interdictive sentence.
Milton.

INTERDICTORY
In`ter*dict"o*ry, a. Etym: [L. interdictorius.]

Defn: Belonging to an interdiction; prohibitory.

INTERDIGITAL
In`ter*dig"i*tal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the fingers or toes; as, interdigital space.

INTERDIGITATE
In`ter*dig"i*tate, v. t.

Defn: To interweave. [R.]

INTERDIGITATE
In`ter*dig"i*tate, v. i. Etym: [Pref. inter- + L. digitus finger.]

Defn: To interlock, as the fingers of two hands that are joined; to
be interwoven; to commingle. Owen.

INTERDIGITATION
In`ter*dig`i*ta"tion, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The state of interdigitating; interdigital space. Owen.

INTERDOME
In"ter*dome`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The open space between the inner and outer shells of a dome or
cupola of masonry.

INTERDUCE
In"ter*duce, n. Etym: [Cf. F. entre-deux, literally, between two.]
(Carp.)

Defn: An intertie.

INTEREPIMERAL
In"ter*e*pim"er*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Between the epimeral plates of insects and crustaceans.

INTEREQUINOCTIAL
In`ter*e`qui*noc"tial, a.

Defn: Coming between the equinoxes.
Summer and winter I have called interequinoctial intervals. F.
Balfour.

INTERESS
In"ter*ess, v. t. Etym: [See Interest, v. t.]

Defn: To interest or affect. [Obs.] Hooker.

INTERESSE
In"ter*esse, n.

Defn: Interest. [Obs.] Spenser.

INTEREST
In"ter*est, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interested; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interesting.] Etym: [From interess'd, p. p. of the older form
interess, fr. F. intéresser, L. interesse. See Interest, n.]

1. To engage the attention of; to awaken interest in; to excite
emotion or passion in, in behalf of a person or thing; as, the
subject did not interest him; to interest one in charitable work.
To love our native country . . . to be interested in its concerns is
natural to all men. Dryden.
A goddess who used to interest herself in marriages. Addison.

2. To be concerned with or engaged in; to affect; to concern; to
excite; -- often used impersonally. [Obs.]
Or rather, gracious sir, Create me to this glory, since my cause Doth
interest this fair quarrel. Ford.

3. To cause or permit to share. [Obs.]
The mystical communion of all faithful men is such as maketh every
one to be interested in those precious blessings which any one of
them receiveth at God's hands. Hooker.

Syn.
 -- To concern; excite; attract; entertain; engage; occupy; hold.

INTEREST
In"ter*est, n. Etym: [OF. interest, F. intérêt, fr. L. interest it
interests, is of interest, fr. interesse to be between, to be
difference, to be importance; inter between + esse to be; cf. LL.
interesse usury. See Essence.]

1. Excitement of feeling, whether pleasant or painful, accompanying
special attention to some object; concern.

Note: Interest expresses mental excitement of various kinds and
degrees. It may be intellectual, or sympathetic and emotional, or
merely personal; as, an interest in philosophical research; an
interest in human suffering; the interest which an avaricious man
takes in money getting.
So much interest have I in thy sorrow. Shak.

2. Participation in advantage, profit, and responsibility; share;
portion; part; as, an interest in a brewery; he has parted with his
interest in the stocks.

3. Advantage, personal or general; good, regarded as a selfish
benefit; profit; benefit.
Divisions hinder the common interest and public good. Sir W. Temple.
When interest calls of all her sneaking train. Pope.

4. Premium paid for the use of money, -- usually reckoned as a
percentage; as, interest at five per cent per annum on ten thousand
dollars.
They have told their money, and let out Their coin upon large
interest. Shak.

5. Any excess of advantage over and above an exact equivalent for
what is given or rendered.
You shall have your desires with interest. Shak.

6. The persons interested in any particular business or measure,
taken collectively; as, the iron interest; the cotton interest.
Compound interest, interest, not only on the original principal, but
also on unpaid interest from the time it fell due.
 -- Simple interest, interest on the principal sum without interest
on overdue interest.

INTERESTED
In"ter*est*ed, a. Etym: [See Interest, v. t.]

1. Having the attention engaged; having emotion or passion excited;
as, an interested listener.

2. Having an interest; concerned in a cause or in consequences;
liable to be affected or prejudiced; as, an interested witness.

INTERESTEDNESS
In"ter*est*ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being interested; selfishness.
Richardson.

INTERESTING
In"ter*est*ing, a.

Defn: Engaging the attention; exciting, or adapted to excite,
interest, curiosity, or emotion; as, an interesting story;
interesting news. Cowper.

INTERESTINGLY
In"ter*est*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In an interesting manner.

INTERESTINGNESS
In"ter*est*ing*ness, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of being interesting. A. Smith.

INTERFACIAL
In`ter*fa"cial, a. (Geom.)

Defn: Included between two plane surfaces or faces; as, an
interfacial angle.

INTERFASCICULAR
In`ter*fas*cic"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between fascicles or bundles; as, the interfascicular spaces of
connective tissue.

INTERFERANT
In`ter*fer"ant, n. (Law)

Defn: One of the contestants in interference before the Patent
Office. [U.S.]

INTERFERE
In`ter*fere", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Interfered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interfering.] Etym: [OF. entreferir to strike each other; entre
between (L. inter) + OF. ferir to strike, F. férir, fr. L. ferire.
See Ferula.]

1. To come in collision; to be in opposition; to clash; as,
interfering claims, or commands.

2. To enter into, or take a part in, the concerns of others; to
intermeddle; to interpose.
To interfere with party disputes. Swift.
There was no room for anyone to interfere with his own opinions. Bp.
Warburton.

3. To strike one foot against the opposite foot or ankle in using the
legs; -- sometimes said of a human being, but usually of a horse; as,
the horse interferes.

4. (Physics)

Defn: To act reciprocally, so as to augment, diminish, or otherwise
affect one another; -- said of waves, rays of light, heat, etc. See
Interference, 2.

5. (Patent Law)

Defn: To cover the same ground; to claim the same invention.

Syn.
 -- To interpose; intermeddle. See Interpose.

INTERFERENCE
In`ter*fer"ence, n. Etym: [See Interfere.]

1. The act or state of interfering; as, the stoppage of a machine by
the interference of some of its parts; a meddlesome interference in
the business of others.

2. (Physics)

Defn: The mutual influence, under certain conditions, of two streams
of light, or series of pulsations of sound, or, generally, two waves
or vibrations of any kind, producing certain characteristic
phenomena, as colored fringes, dark bands, or darkness, in the case
of light, silence or increased intensity in sounds; neutralization or
superposition of waves generally.

Note: The term is most commonly applied to light, and the undulatory
theory of light affords the proper explanation of the phenomena which
are considered to be produced by the superposition of waves, and are
thus substantially identical in their origin with the phenomena of
heat, sound, waves of water, and the like.

3. (Patent Law)

Defn: The act or state of interfering, or of claiming a right to the
same invention. Interference figures (Optics), the figures observed
when certain sections of crystallized bodies are viewed in converging
polarized light; thus, a section of a uniaxial crystal, cut normal to
the vertical axis, shows a series of concentric colored rings with a
single black cross; -- so called because produced by the interference
of luminous waves.
 -- Interference fringe. (Optics) See Fringe.

INTERFERER
In`ter*fer"er, n.

Defn: One who interferes.

INTERFERINGLY
In`ter*fer"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By or with interference.

INTERFEROMETER
In`ter*fe*rom"e*ter, n. [See Interfere and -meter.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring small movements, distances, or
displacements by means of the interference of two beams of light; --
called also refractometer.

INTERFLOW
In`ter*flow", v. i.

Defn: To flow in. [R.] Holland.

INTERFLUENT; INTERFLUOUS
In*ter"flu*ent, In*ter"flu*ous, a. Etym: [L. interfluens, p. pr., and
interfluus. See Inter-, and Fluent.]

Defn: Flowing between or among; intervening. Boyle.

INTERFOLDED
In`ter*fold"ed, p. a.

Defn: Intertwined; interlocked; clasped together. Longfellow.

INTERFOLIACEOUS
In`ter*fo`li*a"ceous, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + foliaceous: cf. F.
interfoliacé.] (Bot.)

Defn: At the same node with opposite or whorled leaves, but occupying
a position between their places of attachment.

INTERFOLIATE
In`ter*fo"li*ate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. inter- + L. folium leaf.]

Defn: To interleave. [Obs.] Evelyn.

INTERFOLLICULAR
In`ter*fol*lic"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between follicles; as, the interfollicular septa in a lymphatic
gland.

INTERFRETTED
In`ter*fret"ted, a. (Her.)

Defn: Interlaced; linked together; -- said of charges or bearings.
See Fretted.

INTERFULGENT
In`ter*ful"gent, a. Etym: [L. interfulgens, p. pr. See Inter-, and
Fulgent.]

Defn: Shining between.

INTERFUSE
In`ter*fuse" (, v. t. Etym: [L. interfusus, p. p. of interfundere to
pour between; inter between + fundere to pour. See Fuse to melt.]

1. To pour or spread between or among; to diffuse; to scatter.
The ambient air, wide interfused, Embracing round this florid earth.
Milton.

2. To spread through; to permeate; to pervade. [R.]
Keats, in whom the moral seems to have so perfectly interfused the
physical man, that you might almost say he could feel sorrow with his
hands. Lowell.

3. To mix up together; to associate. H. Spencer.

INTERFUSION
In`ter*fu"sion, n. Etym: [L. interfusio.]

Defn: The act of interfusing, or the state of being interfused.
Coleridge.

INTERGANGLIONIC
In`ter*gan`gli*on"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between and uniting the nervous ganglions; as, interganglionic
cords.

INTERGLOBULAR
In`ter*glob"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between globules; -- applied esp. to certain small spaces,
surrounded by minute globules, in dentine.

INTERGRAVE
In`ter*grave", v. t. [imp. Intergraved; p. p. Intergraved or
Intergraven (p. pr. & vb. n. Intergraving.]

Defn: To grave or carve between; to engrave in the alternate
sections.
The work itself of the bases, was intergraven. 3 Kings vii. 28 (Douay
version. )

INTERHEMAL; INTERHAEMAL
In`ter*he"mal, In`ter*hæ"mal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the hemal arches or hemal spines.
 -- n.

Defn: An interhemal spine or cartilage.

INTERHYAL
In`ter*hy"al, a. Etym: [Inter- + the Greek letter (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a segment sometimes present at the proximal
end of the hyoidean arch.
 -- n.

Defn: An interhyal ligament or cartilage.

INTERIM
In"ter*im, n. Etym: [L., fr. inter between + im, an old accusative of
is he, this, that.]

1. The meantime; time intervening; interval between events, etc.
All the interim is Like a phantasms, or a hideous dream. Shak.

2. (Hist.)

Defn: A name given to each of three compromises made by the emperor
Charles V. of Germany for the sake of harmonizing the connecting
opinions of Protestants and Catholics.

INTERIOR
In*te"ri*or, a. Etym: [L., compar. fr. inter between: cf. F.
intérieur. See Inter-, and cf. Intimate.]

1. Being within any limits, inclosure, or substance; inside;
internal; inner; -- opposed to exterior, or superficial; as, the
interior apartments of a house; the interior surface of a hollow
ball.

2. Remote from the limits, frontier, or shore; inland; as, the
interior parts of a region or country. Interior angle (Geom.), an
angle formed between two sides, within any rectilinear figure, as a
polygon, or between two parallel lines by these lines and another
intersecting them; -- called also internal angle.
 -- Interior planets (Astron.), those planets within the orbit of the
earth.
 -- Interior screw, a screw cut on an interior surface, as in a nut;
a female screw.

Syn.
 -- Internal; inside; inner; inland; inward.

INTERIOR
In*te"ri*or, n.

1. That which is within; the internal or inner part of a thing; the
inside.

2. The inland part of a country, state, or kingdom. Department of the
Interior, that department of the government of the United States
which has charge of pensions, patents, public lands and surveys, the
Indians, education, etc.; that department of the government of a
country which is specially charged with the internal affairs of that
country; the home department.
 -- Secretary of the Interior, the cabinet officer who, in the United
States, is at the head of the Department of the Interior.

INTERIORITY
In*te`ri*or"i*ty, n.

Defn: State of being interior.

INTERIORLY
In*te"ri*or*ly, adv.

Defn: Internally; inwardly.

INTERJACENCE; INTERJACENCY
In`ter*ja"cence, In`ter*ja"cen*cy, n. Etym: [See Interjacent.]

Defn: The state of being between; a coming or lying between or among;
intervention; also, that which lies between.
England and Scotland is divided only by the interjacency of the
Tweed. Sir M. Hale.

INTERJACENT
In`ter*ja"cent, a. Etym: [L. interjacens, -entis, p. pr. of
interjacere to lie between; inter between + jac to lie.]

Defn: Lying or being between or among; intervening; as, interjacent
isles. Sir W. Raleigh.

INTERJACULATE
In`ter*jac"u*late, v. t.

Defn: To ejaculate parenthetically. [R.] Thackeray.

INTERJANGLE
In`ter*jan"gle, v. i.

Defn: To make a dissonant, discordant noise one with another; to talk
or chatter noisily. [R.] Daniel.

INTERJECT
In`ter*ject", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interjected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interjecting.] Etym: [L. interjectus, p. p. of interjicere to
interject; inter between + jac to throw. See Jet a shooting forth.]

Defn: To throw in between; to insert; to interpose. Sir H. Wotton.

INTERJECT
In`ter*ject", v. i.

Defn: To throw one's self between or among; to come between; to
interpose. Sir G. Buck.

INTERJECTION
In`ter*jec"tion, n. Etym: [L. interjectio: cf. F. interjection. See
Interject.]

1. The act of interjecting or throwing between; also, that which is
interjected.
The interjection of laughing. Bacon.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A word or form of speech thrown in to express emotion or
feeling, as O! Alas! Ha ha! Begone! etc. Compare Exclamation.
An interjection implies a meaning which it would require a whole
grammatical sentence to expound, and it may be regarded as the
rudiment of such a sentence. But it is a confusion of thought to rank
it among the parts of speech. Earle.
How now! interjections Why, then, some be of laughing, as, ah, ha,
he! Shak.

INTERJECTIONAL
In`ter*jec"tion*al, a.

1. Thrown in between other words or phrases; parenthetical;
ejaculatory; as, an interjectional remark.

2. Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an interjection;
consisting of natural and spontaneous exclamations.
Certain of the natural accompaniments of interjectional speech, such
as gestures, grimaces, and gesticulations, are restrained by
civilization. Earle.

INTERJECTIONALIZE
In`ter*jec"tion*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To convert into, or to use as, an interjection. Earle.

INTERJECTIONALLY
In`ter*jec"tion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an interjectional manner. G. Eliot.

INTERJECTIONARY
In`ter*jec"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Interjectional.

INTERJOIN
In`ter*join", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interjoined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interjoining.] Etym: [Pref. inter + join.]

Defn: To join mutually; to unite. [R.] Shak.

INTERJOIST
In"ter*joist`, n. (Carp.)

1. The space or interval between two joists. Gwilt.

2. A middle joist or crossbeam. De Colange.

INTERJUNCTION
In`ter*junc"tion, n. Etym: [L. interjunctus, p. p. of interjungere to
join together. See Inter-, and Join, and cf. Interjoin.]

Defn: A mutual joining. [R.]

INTERKNIT
In`ter*knit", v. t.

Defn: To knit together; to unite closely; to intertwine.

INTERKNOW
In`ter*know", v. t.

Defn: To know mutually. [Obs.]

INTERKNOWLEDGE
In`ter*knowl"edge, n.

Defn: Mutual knowledge or acquaintance. [Obs.] Bacon.

INTERLACE
In`ter*lace", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Interlaced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interlacing.] Etym: [OE. entrelacen, F. entrelacer. See Inter-, and
Lace.]

Defn: To unite, as by lacing together; to insert or interpose one
thing within another; to intertwine; to interweave.
Severed into stripes That interlaced each other. Cowper.
The epic way is every where interlaced with dialogue. Dryden.
Interlacing arches (Arch.), arches, usually circular, so constructed
that their archivolts intersect and seem to be interlaced.

INTERLACEMENT
In`ter*lace"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. entrelacement.]

Defn: The act of interlacing, or the state of being interlaced; also,
that which is interlaced.

INTERLAMELLAR; INTERLAMINAR
In`ter*lam"el*lar, In`ter*lam"i*nar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between lammellæ or laminæ; as, interlamellar spaces.

INTERLAMINATED
In`ter*lam"i*na`ted, a.

Defn: Placed between, or containing, laminæ or plates.

INTERLAMINATION
In`ter*lam`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: The state of being interlaminated.

INTERLAPSE
In"ter*lapse`, n. Etym: [Pref. inter- + lapse: cf. L. interlabi,
interlapsus, to fall, slide, or flow, between.]

Defn: The lapse or interval of time between two events. [R.] Harvey.

INTERLARD
In`ter*lard", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interlarded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interlarding.] Etym: [F. entrelarder. See Inter-, and Lard.]

1. To place lard or bacon amongst; to mix, as fat meat with lean.
[Obs.]
Whose grain doth rise in flakes, with fatness interlarded. Drayton.

2. Hence: To insert between; to mix or mingle; especially, to
introduce that which is foreign or irrelevant; as, to interlard a
conservation with oaths or allusions.
The English laws . . . [were] mingled and interlarded with many
particular laws of their own. Sir M. Hale.
They interlard their native drinks with choice Of strongest brandy.
J. Philips.

INTERLAY
In`ter*lay", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interlaid; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interlaying.]

Defn: To lay or place among or between. Daniel.

INTERLEAF
In"ter*leaf`, n.; pl. Interleaves. Etym: [See Interleave.]

Defn: A leaf inserted between other leaves; a blank leaf inserted, as
in a book.

INTERLEAVE
In`ter*leave", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interleaved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interleaving.] Etym: [Pref. inter- + leaf.]

Defn: To insert a leaf or leaves in; to bind with blank leaves
inserted between the others; as, to interleave a book.

INTERLIBEL
In`ter*li"bel, v. t.

Defn: To libel mutually.

INTERLINE
In`ter*line", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interlined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interlining.] Etym: [Pref. inter- + line: cf. LL. interlineare, F.
interlinéer, OF. entreligner.]

1. To write or insert between lines already written or printed, as
for correction or addition; to write or print something between the
lines of; as, to interline a page or a book. Swift.

2. To arrange in alternate lines; as, to interline Latin and English.
Locke.

3. To mark or imprint with lines.
A crooked wrinkle interlines my brow. Marlowe.

INTERLINEAL; INTERLINEAR
In`ter*lin"e*al, In`ter*lin"e*ar, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. interlinearis, F.
interlinéaire.]

Defn: Contained between lines; written or inserted between lines
already written or printed; containing interlineations; as, an
interlinear manuscript, translation, etc.
 -- In`ter*lin"e*ar*ly, adv.

INTERLINEARY
In`ter*lin"e*a*ry, a.

Defn: Interlinear.
 -- n.

Defn: A book containing interlineations. [R.]

INTERLINEATION
In`ter*lin`e*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. interlinéation.]

1. The act of interlining.

2. That which is interlined; a passage, word, or line inserted
between lines already written or printed.

INTERLINING
In`ter*lin"ing, n.

Defn: Correction or alteration by writing between the lines;
interlineation. Bp. Burnet.

INTERLINK
In`ter*link", v. t.

Defn: To link together; to join, as one chain to another. Dryden.

INTERLINK
In`ter*link", n.

Defn: An intermediate or connecting link.

INTERLOBAR
In`ter*lo"bar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between lobes; as, the interlobar notch of the liver; the
interlobar ducts of a gland.

INTERLOBULAR
In`ter*lob"u*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + lobular: cf. F.
interlobulaire.] (Anat.)

Defn: Between lobules; as, the interlobular branches of the portal
vein.

INTERLOCATION
In`ter*lo*ca"tion, n.

Defn: A placing or coming between; interposition.

INTERLOCK
In`ter*lock", v. i.

Defn: To unite, embrace, communicate with, or flow into, one another;
to be connected in one system; to lock into one another; to interlace
firmly.

INTERLOCK
In`ter*lock", v. t.

Defn: To unite by locking or linking together; to secure in place by
mutual fastening.
My lady with her fingers interlocked. Tennyson.

INTERLOCUTION
In`ter*lo*cu"tion, n. Etym: [L. interlocutio, from interloqui,
interlocutus, to speak between; inter between + loqui to speak: cf.
F. interlocution. See Loquacious.]

1. Interchange of speech; dialogue; conversation; conference.

2. (Law)

Defn: An intermediate act or decree before final decision. Ayliffe.

3. Hence, intermediate argument or discussion.

INTERLOCUTOR
In`ter*loc"u*tor, n. Etym: [Cf. F. interlocuteur.]

1. One who takes part in dialogue or conversation; a talker,
interpreter, or questioner. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Law)

Defn: An interlocutory judgment or sentence.

INTERLOCUTORY
In`ter*loc"u*to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. interlocutorius, F.
interlocutoire.]

1. Consisting of, or having the nature of, dialogue; conversational.
Interlocutory discourses in the Holy Scriptures. Fiddes.

2. (Law)

Defn: Intermediate; not final or definitive; made or done during the
progress of an action.

Note: An order, sentence, decree, or judgment, given in an
intermediate stage between the commencement and termination of a
cause, is called interlocutory.

INTERLOCUTORY
In`ter*loc"u*to*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. interlocutoire.]

Defn: Interpolated discussion or dialogue.

INTERLOCUTRICE
In`ter*loc"u*trice, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A female interlocutor.

INTERLOPE
In`ter*lope", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Interloped; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interloping.] Etym: [See Interloper.]

Defn: To run between parties and intercept without right the
advantage that one should gain from the other; to traffic without a
proper license; to intrude; to forestall others; to intermeddle.

INTERLOPER
In"ter*lo`per, n. Etym: [Pref. inter- + D. looper a runner, fr.
loopen to run; akin to E. leap. See Leap, and cf. Elope.]

Defn: One who interlopes; one who interlopes; one who unlawfully
intrudes upon a property, a station, or an office; one who interferes
wrongfully or officiously.
The untrained man, . . . the interloper as to the professions. I.
Taylor.

INTERLUCATE
In`ter*lu"cate, v. t. Etym: [L. interlucatus, p. p. of interlucare;
inter between + lux, lucis, light.]

Defn: To let in light upon, as by cutting away branches. [Obs.]

INTERLUCATION
In`ter*lu*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. interlucatio.]

Defn: Act of thinning a wood to let in light. [Obs.] Evelyn.

INTERLUCENT
In`ter*lu"cent, a. Etym: [L. interlucens, p. pr. See Inter-, and
Lucent.]

Defn: Shining between.

INTERLUDE
In`ter*lude, n. Etym: [OE. enterlude, LL. interludium; LL. inter
between + ludus play, fr. ludere to play: cf. F. interlude. See
Ludicrous.]

1. A short entertainment exhibited on the stage between the acts of a
play, or between the play and the afterpiece, to relieve the tedium
of waiting.
Dreams are but interludes, which fancy makes When monarch reason
sleeps. Dryden.

2. A form of English drama or play, usually short, merry, and
farcical, which succeeded the Moralities or Moral Plays in the
transition to the romantic or Elizabethan drama.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A short piece of instrumental music played between the parts of
a song or cantata, or the acts of a drama; especially, in church
music, a short passage played by the organist between the stanzas of
a hymn, or in German chorals after each line.

INTERLUDED
In"ter*lu`ded, a.

Defn: Inserted in the manner of an interlude; having or containing
interludes.

INTERLUDER
In"ter*lu`der, n.

Defn: An actor who performs in an interlude. B. Jonson.

INTERLUENCY
In"ter*lu`en*cy, n. Etym: [L. interluens, p. pr. of interluere to
flow between; inter + luere.]

Defn: A flowing between; intervening water. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

INTERLUNAR; INTERLUNARY
In`ter*lu"nar, In`ter*lu"na*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + lunar: cf.
L. interlunis.]

Defn: Belonging or pertaining to the time when the moon, at or near
its conjunction with the sun, is invisible. Milton.

INTERMANDIBULAR
In`ter*man*dib"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the mandibles; interramal; as, the intermandibular
space.

INTERMARRIAGE
In`ter*mar"riage, n.

Defn: Connection by marriage; reciprocal marriage; giving and taking
in marriage, as between two families, tribes, castes, or nations.

INTERMARRY
In`ter*mar"ry, v. i.

Defn: To become connected by marriage between their members; to give
and take mutually in marriage; -- said of families, ranks, castes,
etc.
About the middle of the fourth century from the building of Rome, it
was declared lawful for nobles and plebeians to intermarry. Swift.

INTERMAXILLA
In`ter*max*il"la, n.; pl. Intermaxillæ (. (Anat.)

Defn: See Premaxilla.

INTERMAXILLARY
In`ter*max"il*la*ry, a. (Anat.) (a) Between the maxillary bones. (b)
Of or pertaining to the intermaxillæ.
 -- n.

Defn: An intermaxilla.

INTERMEAN
In"ter*mean`, n.

Defn: Something done in the meantime; interlude. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

INTERMEATION
In`ter*me*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. intermeare, intermeatum; to go
between; inter between + meare to go.]

Defn: A flowing between. [Obs.] Bailey.

INTERMEDDLE
In`ter*med"dle, v. i. Etym: [OE. entremedlen, entermellen, to mix
together, OF. entremedler, entremeller, entremesler, F. entremêler.
See Inter-, and Meddle.]

Defn: To meddle with the affairs of others; to meddle officiously; to
interpose or interfere improperly; to mix or meddle with.
The practice of Spain hath been, by war and by conditions of treaty,
to intermeddle with foreign states. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- To interpose; interfere. See Interpose.

INTERMEDDLE
In`ter*med"dle, v. t.

Defn: To intermix; to mingle. [Obs.]
Many other adventures are intermeddled. Spenser.

INTERMEDDLER
In`ter*med"dler, n.

Defn: One who meddles with, or intrudes into, the affairs of others.
Swift.

INTERMEDDLESOME
In`ter*med"dle*some, a.

Defn: Inclined or disposed to intermeddle.
 -- In`ter*med"dle*some*ness, n.

INTERMEDDLING
In`ter*med"dling, n.

Defn: The act of improperly interfering. Burke.

INTERMEDE
In"ter*mede, n. Etym: [F. intermède, fr. L. inter between + medius,
adj., middle; cf. It. intermedio. Cf. Intermezzo.]

Defn: A short musical dramatic piece, of a light and pleasing,
sometimes a burlesque, character; an interlude introduced between the
acts of a play or an opera.

INTERMEDIACY
In`ter*me"di*a*cy, n. Etym: [From Intermediate.]

Defn: Interposition; intervention. Derham.

INTERMEDIAE
In`ter*me"di*æ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. intermedius intermedial.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The middle pair of tail feathers, or middle rectrices.

INTERMEDIAL
In`ter*me"di*al, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + medial: cf. L.
intermedius.]

Defn: Lying between; intervening; intermediate. "Intermedial colors."
Evelyn.

INTERMEDIAN
In`ter*me"di*an, a.

Defn: Intermediate. [Obs.]

INTERMEDIARY
In`ter*me"di*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. intermédiaire.]

Defn: Lying, coming, or done, between; intermediate; as, an
intermediary project. Intermediary amputation (Surg.), an amputation
for injury, performed after inflammation has set in.

INTERMEDIARY
In`ter*me"di*a*ry, n.; pl. Intermediaries (.

Defn: One who, or that which, is intermediate; an interagent; a go-
between.

INTERMEDIATE
In`ter*me"di*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + mediate: cf. F.
intermédiat.]

Defn: Lying or being in the middle place or degree, or between two
extremes; coming or done between; intervening; interposed;
interjacent; as, an intermediate space or time; intermediate colors.
Intermediate state (Theol.), the state or condition of the soul
between the death and the resurrection of the body.
 -- Intermediate terms (Math.), the terms of a progression or series
between the first and the last (which are called the extremes); the
means.
 -- Intermediate tie. (Arch.) Same as Intertie.

INTERMEDIATE
In`ter*me"di*ate, v. i.

Defn: To come between; to intervene; to interpose. Milton.

INTERMEDIATELY
In`ter*me"di*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intermediate manner; by way of intervention.

INTERMEDIATION
In`ter*me`di*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of coming between; intervention; interposition. Burke.

INTERMEDIATOR
In`ter*me"di*a`tor, n.

Defn: A mediator.

INTERMEDIOUS
In`ter*me"di*ous, a. Etym: [L. intermedius.]

Defn: Intermediate. [R.] Cudworth.

INTERMEDIUM
In`ter*me"di*um, n.; pl. Intermediums, L. Intermedia. Etym: [NL.,
neut. of L. intermedius intermediate.]

1. Intermediate space. [R.]

2. An intervening agent or instrument. Cowper.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The bone or cartilage between the radiale and ulnare in the
carpus, and between the tibiale and fibulare in the tarsus. It
corresponds to the lunar in the carpus, and to a part of the
astragalus in the tarsus of man and most mammals.

INTERMELL
In`ter*mell", v. i. & t. Etym: [See Intermeddle.]

Defn: To intermeddle; to intermix. [Obs.] Bp. Fisher.

INTERMEMBRAL
In`ter*mem"bral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between members or limbs; as, intermembral homology, the
correspondence of the limbs with each other.

INTERMEMBRANOUS
In`ter*mem"bra*nous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Within or beneath a membrane; as, intermembranous ossification.

INTERMENT
In*ter"ment, n. Etym: [OE. enterment, F. enterrement. See Inter, v.
t.]

Defn: The act or ceremony of depositing a dead body in the earth;
burial; sepulture; inhumation. T. Warton.

INTERMENTION
In`ter*men"tion, v. t.

Defn: To mention among other things, or casually or incidentally.
[Obs.]

INTERMESENTERIC
In`ter*mes`en*ter"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Within the mesentery; as, the intermesenteric, or aortic,
plexus.

INTERMETACARPAL
In`ter*me`ta*car"pal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the metacarpal bones.

INTERMETATARSAL
In`ter*me`ta*tar"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the metatarsal bones.

INTERMEZZO
In`ter*mez"zo, n. Etym: [It. See Intermede.] (Mus.)

Defn: An interlude; an intermede. See Intermede.

INTERMICATE
In`ter*mi"cate, v. i. Etym: [L. intermicare; inter- between + micare
to glitter.]

Defn: To flash or shine between or among. [R.] Blount.

INTERMICATION
In`ter*mi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: A shining between or among. [R.] Smart.

INTERMIGRATION
In`ter*mi*gra"tion, n.

Defn: Reciprocal migration; interchange of dwelling place by
migration. [R.] Sir M. Hale.

INTERMINABLE
In*ter"mi*na*ble, a. Etym: [L. interminabilis: cf. F. interminable.
See Terminate.]

Defn: Without termination; admitting no limit; boundless; endless;
wearisomely protracted; as, interminable space or duration;
interminable sufferings.
That wild interminable waste of waves. Grainger.

Syn.
 -- Boundless; endless; limitless; illimitable; immeasurable;
infinite; unbounded; unlimited.

INTERMINABLENESS
In*ter"mi*na*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being endless.

INTERMINABLY
In*ter"mi*na*bly, adv.

Defn: Without end or limit.

INTERMINATE
In*ter"mi*nate, a. Etym: [L. interminatus; in- not + terminatus, p.
p. of terminate.]

Defn: Endless; as, interminate sleep. Chapman.

INTERMINATE
In*ter"mi*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. interminatus, p. p. of interminari;
inter between + minari to threaten.]

Defn: To menace; to threaten. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

INTERMINATED
In*ter"mi*na`ted, a.

Defn: Interminable; interminate; endless; unending. [Obs.] Akenside.

INTERMINATION
In*ter`mi*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. interminatio.]

Defn: A menace or threat. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

INTERMINE
In`ter*mine", v. t.

Defn: To intersect or penetrate with mines. [Obs.] Drayton.

INTERMINGLE
In`ter*min"gle, v. t.

Defn: To mingle or mix together; to intermix. Hooker.

INTERMINGLE
In`ter*min"gle, v. i.

Defn: To be mixed or incorporated.
Party and faction will intermingle. Swift.

INTERMISE
In"ter*mise, n. Etym: [Cf. F. entremise. See Intermission.]

Defn: Interference; interposition. [Obs.] Bacon.

INTERMISSION
In`ter*mis"sion, n. Etym: [L. intermissio: cf. F. intermission. See
Intermit.]

1. The act or the state of intermitting; the state of being neglected
or disused; disuse; discontinuance. B. Jonson.

2. Cessation for a time; an intervening period of time; an interval;
a temporary pause; as, to labor without intermission; an intermission
of ten minutes.
Rest or intermission none I find. Milton.

3. (Med.)

Defn: The temporary cessation or subsidence of a fever; the space of
time between the paroxysms of a disease. Intermission is an entire
cessation, as distinguished from remission, or abatement of fever.

4. Intervention; interposition. [Obs.] Heylin.

Syn.
 -- Cessation; interruption; interval; pause; stop; rest; suspension.
See Cessation.

INTERMISSIVE
In`ter*mis"sive, a.

Defn: Having temporary cessations; not continual; intermittent.
"Intermissive miseries." Shak. "Intermissive wars." Howell.

INTERMIT
In`ter*mit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intermitted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intermitting.] Etym: [L. intermittere; inter between + mittere,
missum, to send: cf. OE. entremeten to busy (one's self) with, F.
s'entremettre. See Missile.]

Defn: To cause to cease for a time, or at intervals; to interrupt; to
suspend.
Pray to the gods to intermit the plague. Shak.

INTERMIT
In`ter*mit", v. i.

Defn: To cease for a time or at intervals; to moderate; to be
intermittent, as a fever. Pope.

INTERMITTENCE
In`ter*mit"tence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intermittence.]

Defn: Act or state of intermitting; intermission. Tyndall.

INTERMITTENT
In`ter*mit"tent, a. Etym: [L. intermittens, -entis, p. pr. of
intermittere: cf. F. intermittent.]

Defn: Coming and going at intervals; alternating; recurrent;
periodic; as, an intermittent fever. Boyle. Intermittent fever
(Med.), a disease with fever which recurs at certain intervals; --
applied particularly to fever and ague. See Fever.
 -- Intermittent gearing (Mach.), gearing which receives, or
produces, intermittent motion.
 -- Intermittent springs, springs which flow at intervals, not
apparently dependent upon rain or drought. They probably owe their
intermittent action to their being connected with natural reservoirs
in hills or mountains by passages having the form of a siphon, the
water beginning to flow when it has accumulated so as to fill the
upper part of the siphon, and ceasing when, by running through it, it
has fallen below the orifice of the upper part of the siphon in the
reservoir.

INTERMITTENT
In`ter*mit"tent, n. (Med.)

Defn: An intermittent fever or disease. Dunglison.

INTERMITTENTLY
In`ter*mit"tent*ly, adv.

Defn: With intermissions; in an intermittent manner; intermittingly.

INTERMITTINGLY
In`ter*mit"ting*ly, adv.

Defn: With intermissions; at intervals. W. Montagu.

INTERMIX
In`ter*mix", v. t.

Defn: To mix together; to intermingle.
In yonder spring of roses, intermixed With myrtle, find what to
redress till noon. Milton.

INTERMIX
In`ter*mix", v. i.

Defn: To be mixed together; to be intermingled.

INTERMIXEDLY
In`ter*mix"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mixed manner.

INTERMIXTURE
In`ter*mix"ture, n.

1. A mass formed by mixture; a mass of ingredients mixed. Boyle.

2. Admixture; an additional ingredient.
In this height of impiety there wanted not an intermixture of levity
and folly. Bacon.

INTERMOBILITY
In`ter*mo*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capacity of things to move among each other; as, the
intermobility of fluid particles.

INTERMODILLION
In`ter*mo*dil"lion, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The space between two modillions.

INTERMONTANE
In`ter*mon"tane, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + L. montanus belonging to a
mountain, fr. mons, montis, mountain.]

Defn: Between mountains; as, intermontane soil.

INTERMUNDANE
In`ter*mun"dane, a.

Defn: Being, between worlds or orbs. [R.] "Intermundane spaces."
Locke.

INTERMUNDIAN
In`ter*mun"di*an, a.

Defn: Intermundane. [Obs.]

INTERMURAL
In`ter*mu"ral, a.

Defn: Lying between walls; inclosed by walls.

INTERMURE
In`ter*mure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intermured; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intermuring.] Etym: [Pref. inter- + L. murus wall.]

Defn: To wall in; to inclose. [Obs.] Ford.

INTERMUSCULAR
In`ter*mus"cu*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between muscles; as, intermuscular septa.

INTERMUTATION
In`ter*mu*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Interchange; mutual or reciprocal change.

INTERMUTUAL
In`ter*mu"tu*al, a.

Defn: Mutual. [Obs.] Daniel.
 -- In`ter*mu"tu*al*ly, adv. [Obs.]

INTERN
In*tern", a. Etym: [L. internus: cf. F. interne. See Internal.]

Defn: Internal. [Obs.] Howell.

INTERN
In*tern", v. t. Etym: [F. interne. See Intern, a.]

Defn: To put for safe keeping in the interior of a place or country;
to confine to one locality; as, to intern troops which have fled for
refuge to a neutral country.

INTERNAL
In*tern"al, a. Etym: [L. internus; akin to interior. See Interior.]

1. Inward; interior; being within any limit or surface; inclosed; --
opposed to external; as, the internal parts of a body, or of the
earth.

2. Derived from, or dependent on, the thing itself; inherent; as, the
internal evidence of the divine origin of the Scriptures.

3. Pertaining to its own affairs or interests; especially, (said of a
country) domestic, as opposed to foreign; as, internal trade;
internal troubles or war.

4. Pertaining to the inner being or the heart; spiritual.
With our Savior, internal purity is everything. Paley.

5. Intrinsic; inherent; real. [R.]
The internal rectitude of our actions in the sight of God. Rogers.

6. (Anat.)

Defn: Lying toward the mesial plane; mesial. Internal angle (Geom.),
an interior angle. See under Interior.
 -- Internal gear (Mach.), a gear in which the teeth project inward
from the rim instead of outward.

Syn.
 -- Inner; interior; inward; inland; inside.

INTERNAL-COMBUSTION; INTERNAL-COMBUSTION ENGINE
In*ter"nal-com*bus"tion, a. (Mach.)

Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, any engine (called an Internal-
combustion engine) in which the heat or pressure energy necessary to
produce motion is developed in the engine cylinder, as by the
explosion of a gas, and not in a separate chamber, as in a steam-
engine boiler. The gas used may be a fixed gas, or one derived from
alcohol, ether, gasoline (petrol), naphtha, oil (petroleum), etc.
There are three main classes: (1) gas engines proper, using fixed
gases, as coal, blast-furnace, or producer gas; (2) engines using the
vapor of a volatile fluid, as the typical gasoline (petrol) engine;
(3) oil engines, using either an atomized spray or the vapor
(produced by heat) of a comparatively heavy oil, as petroleum or
kerosene. In all of these the gas is mixed with a definite amount of
air, the charge is composed in the cylinder and is then exploded
either by a flame of gas (flame ignition -- now little used), by a
hot tube (tube ignition) or the like, by an electric spark (electric
ignition, the usual method is gasoline engines, or by the heat of
compression, as in the Diesel engine. Gas and oil engines are chiefly
of the stationary type. Gasoline engines are largely used for
automobile vehicles, boats, etc. Most internal-combustion engines use
the Otto (four-stroke) cycle, though many use the two-stroke cycle.
They are almost universally trunk engines and single-acting. Because
of the intense heat produced by the frequent explosions, the
cylinders must be cooled by a water jacket (water-cooled) or by air
currents (air cooled) to give the maximum thermodynamic efficiency
and to avoid excessive friction or seizing.

INTERNALITY
In`ter*nal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being internal or within; interiority.

INTERNALLY
In*ter"nal*ly, adv.

1. Inwardly; within the enveloping surface, or the boundary of a
thing; within the body; beneath the surface.

2. Hence: Mentally; spiritually. Jer. Taylor.

INTERNASAL
In`ter*na"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the nasal cavities; as, the internasal cartilage.

INTERNATIONAL
In`ter*na"tion*al, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + national: cf. F.
international.]

1. Between or among nations; pertaining to the intercourse of
nations; participated in by two or more nations; common to, or
affecting, two or more nations.

2. Of or concerning the association called the International.
International code (Naut.), a common system of signaling adopted by
nearly all maritime nations, whereby communication may be had between
vessels at sea.
 -- International copyright. See under Copyright.
 -- International law, the rules regulating the mutual intercourse of
nations. International law is mainly the product of the conditions
from time to time of international intercourse, being drawn from
diplomatic discussion, textbooks, proof of usage, and from recitals
in treaties. It is called public when treating of the relations of
sovereign powers, and private when of the relations of persons of
different nationalities. International law is now, by the better
opinion, part of the common law of the land. Cf. Conflict of laws,
under Conflict. Wharton.

INTERNATIONAL
In`ter*na"tion*al, n. Etym: [Cf. F. internationale.]

1. The International; an abbreviated from of the title of the
International Workingmen's Association, the name of an association,
formed in London in 1864, which has for object the promotion of the
interests of the industrial classes of all nations.

2. A member of the International Association.

INTERNATIONALISM
In`ter*na"tion*al*ism, n.

1. The state or principles of international interests and
intercourse.

2. The doctrines or organization of the International.

INTERNATIONALIST
In`ter*na"tion*al*ist, n.

1. One who is versed in the principles of international law.

2. A member of the International; one who believes in, or advocates
the doctrines of, the International.

INTERNATIONALIZE
In`ter*na"tion*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make international; to cause to affect the mutual relations
of two or more nations; as, to internationalize a principle of law,
or a philanthropic enterprise.

INTERNATIONALLY
In`ter*na"tion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an international manner; from an international point of
view.

INTERNE
In*terne", n. Etym: [See Intern, a.]

Defn: That which is within; the interior. [Poetic] Mrs. Browning.

INTERNECIARY; INTERNECINAL
In`ter*ne"cia*ry, In`ter*ne"ci*nal, a.

Defn: Internecine.

INTERNECINE
In`ter*ne"cine, a. Etym: [L. internecinus deadly, murderous, fr.
internecare to kill, to slaughter; inter between + necare to kill;
akin to Gr. Necromancy.]

Defn: Involving, or accompanied by, mutual slaughter; mutually
destructive.
Internecine quarrels, horrible tumults, stain the streets with blood.
Motley.

INTERNECION
In`ter*ne"cion, n. Etym: [L. internecio.]

Defn: Mutual slaughter or destruction; massacre. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

INTERNECIVE
In`ter*ne"cive, a. Etym: [L. internecivus.]

Defn: Internecine. [R.] Sydney Smith.

INTERNECTION
In`ter*nec"tion, n. Etym: [L. internectere to bind together; inter
between + nectere to fasten.]

Defn: Intimate connection. [Obs.] W. Montagu.

INTERNEURAL
In`ter*neu"ral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the neural arches or neural spines.
 -- n.

Defn: An interneural spine or cartilage.

INTERNITY
In*ter"ni*ty, n.

Defn: State of being within; interiority. [R.] H. Brooke.

INTERNMENT
In*tern"ment, n. Etym: [F. internement. See Intern.]

Defn: Confinement within narrow limits, -- as of foreign troops, to
the interior of a country.

INTERNODAL
In`ter*no"dal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to internodes; intervening between nodes or
joints.

INTERNODE
In"ter*node`, n. Etym: [L. internodium; inter between + nodus knot.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The space between two nodes or points of the stem from which
the leaves properly arise. H. Spenser.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A part between two joints; a segment; specifically, one of the
phalanges.

INTERNODIAL
In`ter*no"di*al, a.

Defn: Internodal. [R.]

INTERNUNCIAL
In`ter*nun"cial, a. Etym: [See Internuncio.]

1. Of or pertaining to an internuncio.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: Communicating or transmitting impressions between different
parts of the body; -- said of the nervous system. Carpenter.

INTERNUNCIESS
In`ter*nun"ciess, n.

Defn: A female messenger. [R.]

INTERNUNCIO
In`ter*nun"ci*o, n.; pl. Internuncios. Etym: [L. internuntius; inter
between + nuntius, nuncius, messenger: cf. It. internunzio. See
Nuncio.]

1. A messenger between two parties. Johnson.

2. A representative, or chargé d'affaires, of the pope at a foreign
court or seat of government, ranking next below a nuncio.

Note: This title was formerly given also to the Austrian envoy at
Constantinople.

INTERNUNCIOSHIP
In`ter*nun"ci*o*ship, n.

Defn: The office or function of an internuncio. Richardson.

INTERNUNCIUS
In`ter*nun"ci*us, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Internuncio.

INTEROCEANIC
In`ter*o`ce*an"ic, a.

Defn: Between oceans; connecting oceans; as, interoceanic
communication; an interoceanic canal.

INTEROCULAR
In`ter*oc"u*lar, a.

Defn: Between, or within, the eyes; as, the interocular distance;
situated between the eyes, as the antennæ of some insects.

INTEROPERCULAR
In`ter*o*per"cu*lar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the interoperculum.
 -- n.

Defn: The interopercular bone.

INTEROPERCULUM
In`ter*o*per"cu*lum, n.; pl. -la (-la). (Anat.)

Defn: The postero-inferior opercular bone, in fishes.

INTERORBITAL
In`ter*or"bit*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the orbits; as, the interorbital septum.

INTEROSCULANT
In`ter*os"cu*lant, a.

1. Mutually touching or intersecting; as, interosculant circles.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Uniting two groups; -- said of certain genera which connect
family groups, or of species that connect genera. See Osculant.

INTEROSCULATE
In`ter*os"cu*late, v. i. & t.

1. To kiss together to touch. See Osculate.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: To have the character of, or to lie between, two distinct
groups.

INTEROSSEAL; INTEROSSEOUS
In`ter*os"se*al, In`ter*os"se*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + osseous:
cf. F. interosseux.] (Anat.)

Defn: Situated between bones; as, an interosseous ligament.

INTERPALE
In`ter*pale", v. t.

1. To place pales between or among; to separate by pales.

2. To interweave or interlace. [R.] Brende.

INTERPARIETAL
In`ter*pa*ri"e*tal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the parietal bones or cartilages; as, the interparietal
suture.
 -- n.

Defn: The interparietal bone or cartilage

INTERPAUSE
In`ter*pause`, n.

Defn: An intermission. [R.]

INTERPEAL
In`ter*peal", v. t.

Defn: To interpel. [Obs.]

INTERPEDENCULAR
In`ter*pe*den"cu*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between peduncles; esp., between the peduncles, or crura, of
the cerebrum.

INTERPEL
In`ter*pel", v. t. Etym: [L. interpellare, interpellatum; inter
between + pellare (in comp.), akin to pellere to drive: cf. F.
interpeller. Cf. Interpellate.]

Defn: To interrupt, break in upon, or intercede with. [Obs.]
I am interpelled by many businesses. Howell.

INTERPELLANT
In`ter*pel"lant, a. Etym: [L. interpellans, p. pr. See Interpel.]

Defn: Interpelling; interrupting.
 -- n.

Defn: One who, or that which, interpels.

INTERPELLATE
In`ter*pel"late, v. t. Etym: [See Interpel.]

Defn: To question imperatively, as a minister, or other executive
officer, in explanation of his conduct; -- generally on the part of a
legislative body.

INTERPELLATION
In`ter*pel*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. interpellatio: cf. F.
interpellation.]

1. The act of interpelling or interrupting; interruption. "Continual
interpellations." Bp. Hall.

2. The act of interposing or interceding; intercession.
Accepted by his interpellation and intercession. Jer. Taylor.

3. An act of interpellating, or of demanding of an officer an
explanation of his action; imperative or peremptory questioning; a
point raised in a debate.

4. A official summons or citation. Ayliffe.

INTERPENETRATE
In`ter*pen"e*trate, v. t.

Defn: To penetrate between or within; to penetrate mutually.
It interpenetrates my granite mass. Shelley.

INTERPENETRATE
In`ter*pen"e*trate, v. i.

Defn: To penetrate each the other; to penetrate between bodies or
their parts. Interpenetrating molding (Arch.), in late Gothic
architecture, a decoration by means of moldings which seem to pass
through solid uprights, transoms, or other members; often, two sets
of architectural members penetrating one another, in appearance, as
if both had been plastic when they were put together.

INTERPENETRATION
In`ter*pen`e*tra"tion, n.

Defn: The act of penetrating between or within other substances;
mutual penetration. Milman.

INTERPENETRATIVE
In`ter*pen"e*tra*tive, a.

Defn: Penetrating among or between other substances; penetrating each
the other; mutually penetrative.

INTERPETALARY
In`ter*pet"al*a*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + petal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Between the petals of a flower.

INTERPETIOLAR
In`ter*pet"i*o*lar, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Being between petioles. Cf. Intrapetiolar.

INTERPHALANGEAL
In`ter*pha*lan"ge*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between phalanges; as, interphalangeal articulations.

INTERPILASTER
In`ter*pi*las"ter, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The interval or space between two pilasters. Elmes.

INTERPLACE
In`ter*place", v. t.

Defn: To place between or among; as, to interplace a name. [R.]
Daniel.

INTERPLANETARY
In`ter*plan"et*a*ry, a.

Defn: Between planets; as, interplanetary spaces. Boyle.

INTERPLAY
In`ter*play`, n.

Defn: Mutual action or influence; interaction; as, the interplay of
affection.

INTERPLEAD
In`ter*plead", v. i. (Law)

Defn: To plead against each other, or go to trial between themselves,
as the claimants in an in an interpleader. See Interpleader. [Written
also enterplead.]

INTERPLEADER
In`ter*plead"er, n.

1. One who interpleads.

2. (Law)

Defn: A proceeding devised to enable a person, of whom the same debt,
duty, or thing is claimed adversely by two or more parties, to compel
them to litigate the right or title between themselves, and thereby
to relieve himself from the suits which they might otherwise bring
against him.

INTERPLEDGE
In`ter*pledge", v. t.

Defn: To pledge mutually. [R.]

INTERPOINT
In`ter*point", v. t.

Defn: To point; to mark with stops or pauses; to punctuate. [R.]
Her sighs should interpoint her words. Daniel.

INTERPOLABLE
In*ter"po*la*ble, a.

Defn: That may be interpolated; suitable to be interpolated.
A most interpolable clause of one sentence. De Morgan.

INTERPOLATE
In*ter"po*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interpolated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interpolating.] Etym: [L. interpolatus, p. p. of interpolare to form
anew, to interpolate, fr. interpolus, interpolis, falsified, vamped
up, polished up; inter between + polire to polish. See Polish, v. t.]

1. To renew; to carry on with intermission. [Obs.]
Motion . . . partly continued and unintermitted, . . . partly
interpolated and interrupted. Sir M. Hale.

2. To alter or corrupt by the insertion of new or foreign matter;
especially, to change, as a book or text, by the insertion of matter
that is new, or foreign to the purpose of the author.
How strangely Ignatius is mangled and interpolated, you may see by
the vast difference of all copies and editions. Bp. Barlow.
The Athenians were put in possession of Salamis by another law, which
was cited by Solon, or, as some think, interpolated by him for that
purpose. Pope.

3. (Math.)

Defn: To fill up intermediate terms of, as of a series, according to
the law of the series; to introduce, as a number or quantity, in a
partial series, according to the law of that part of the series.

INTERPOLATED
In*ter"po*la`ted, a.

1. Inserted in, or added to, the original; introduced; foisted in;
changed by the insertion of new or spurious matter.

2. (Math.)
(a) Provided with necessary interpolations; as, an interpolated
table.
(b) Introduced or determined by interpolation; as, interpolated
quantities or numbers.

INTERPOLATION
In*ter`po*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. interpolatio an alteration made here
and there: cf. F. interpolation.]

1. The act of introducing or inserting anything, especially that
which is spurious or foreign.

2. That which is introduced or inserted, especially something foreign
or spurious.
Bentley wrote a letter . . . . upon the scriptural glosses in our
present copies of Hesychius, which he considered interpolations from
a later hand. De Quincey.

3. (Math.)

Defn: The method or operation of finding from a few given terms of a
series, as of numbers or observations, other intermediate terms in
conformity with the law of the series.

INTERPOLATOR
In*ter"po*la`tor, n. Etym: [L., a corrupter: of. F. interpolateur.]

Defn: One who interpolates; esp., one who inserts foreign or spurious
matter in genuine writings.

INTERPONE
In`ter*pone", v. t. Etym: [L. interponere; inter between + ponere to
place. See Position.]

Defn: To interpose; to insert or place between. [R.] Cudworth.

INTERPONENT
In`ter*po"nent, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, interposes; an interloper, an opponent.
[R.] Heywood.

INTERPOSAL
In`ter*pos"al, n. Etym: [From Interpose.]

Defn: The act of interposing; interposition; intervention.

INTERPOSE
In`ter*pose", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interposed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interposing.] Etym: [F. interposer. See Inter-, and Pose, v. t.]

1. To place between; as, to interpose a screen between the eye and
the light.
Mountains interposed Make enemies of nations. Cowper.

2. To thrust; to intrude; to between, either for aid or for
troubling.
What watchful cares do interpose themselves Betwixt your eyes and
night Shak.
The common Father of mankind seasonably interposed his hand, and
rescues miserable man. Woodward.

3. To introduce or inject between the parts of a conversation or
argument. Milton.

INTERPOSE
In`ter*pose", v. i.

1. To be or come between.
Long hid by interposing hill or wood. Cowper.

2. To step in between parties at variance; to mediate; as, the prince
interposed and made peace. Pope.

3. To utter a sentiment by way of interruption. Boyle.

Syn.
 -- To intervene; intercede; mediate; interfere; intermeddle.
 -- To Interpose, Intermeddle, Interfere. A man may often interpose
with propriety in the concerns of others; he can never intermeddle
without being impertinent or officious; nor can be interfere without
being liable to the same charge, unless he has rights which are
interfered with. "In our practical use, interference is something
offensive. It is the pushing in of himself between two parties on the
part of a third who was not asked, and is not thanked for his pains,
and who, as the feeling of the word implies, had no business there;
while interposition is employed to express the friendly, peacemaking
mediation of one whom the act well became, and who, even if he was
not specially invited thereunto, is still thanked for what he has
done." Trench.

INTERPOSE
In"ter*pose, n.

Defn: Interposition. [Obs.]

INTERPOSER
In`ter*pos"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, interposes or intervenes; an obstacle
or interruption; a mediator or agent between parties. Shak.

INTERPOSIT
In`ter*pos"it, n. Etym: [From L. interpositus, p. p. of interponere.
See Interposition.]

Defn: An intermediate depot or station between one commercial city or
country and another. Mitford.

INTERPOSITION
In`ter*po*si"tion, n. Etym: [L. interpositio a putting between,
insertion, fr. interponere, interpositum: cf. F. interposition. See
Interpone, Position.]

1. The act of interposing, or the state of being interposed; a being,
placing, or coming between; mediation.

2. The thing interposed.

INTERPOSURE
In`ter*po"sure, n.

Defn: Interposition. [Obs.]

INTERPRET
In*ter"pret, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interpreted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interpreting.] Etym: [F. interprêter, L. interpretari, p. p.
interpretatus, fr. interpre interpeter, agent, negotiator; inter
between + (prob.) the root of pretium price. See Price.]

1. To explain or tell the meaning of; to expound; to translate orally
into intelligible or familiar language or terms; to decipher; to
define; -- applied esp. to language, but also to dreams, signs,
conduct, mysteries, etc.; as, to interpret the Hebrew language to an
Englishman; to interpret an Indian speech.
Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us. Matt. i. 23.
And Pharaoh told them his dreams; but there was none that could
interpret them unto Pharaoh. Gen. xli. 8.

2. To apprehend and represent by means of art; to show by
illustrative representation; as, an actor interprets the character of
Hamlet; a musician interprets a sonata; an artist interprets a
landscape.

Syn.
 -- To translate; explain; solve; render; expound; elucidate;
decipher; unfold; unravel.

INTERPRET
In*ter"pret, v. i.

Defn: To act as an interpreter. Shak.

INTERPRETABLE
In*ter"pret*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. interpretabilis: cf. F.
interprêtable.]

Defn: Admitting of interpretation; capable of being interpreted or
explained.

INTERPRETAMENT
In*ter"pre*ta*ment, n. Etym: [L. interpretamentum.]

Defn: Interpretation. [Obs.] Milton.

INTERPRETATION
In*ter`pre*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. interpretatio: cf. F.
interprétation.]

1. The act of interpreting; explanation of what is obscure;
translation; version; construction; as, the interpretation of a
foreign language, of a dream, or of an enigma.
Look how we can, or sad or merrily, Interpretation will misquote our
looks. Shak.

2. The sense given by an interpreter; exposition or explanation
given; meaning; as, commentators give various interpretations of the
same passage of Scripture.

3. The power or explaining. [R.] Bacon.

4. (Fine Arts)

Defn: An artist's way of expressing his thought or embodying his
conception of nature.

5. (Math.)

Defn: The act or process of applying general principles or formulæ to
the explanation of the results obtained in special cases.

Syn.
 -- Explanation; solution; translation; version; sense; exposition;
rendering; definition.

INTERPRETATIVE
In*ter"pre*ta*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. interprétatif.]

1. Designed or fitted to interpret; explanatory. "Interpretative
lexicography." Johnson.

2. According to interpretation; constructive.
An interpretative siding with heresies. Hammond.

INTERPRETATIVELY
In*ter"pre*ta*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: By interpretation. Ray.

INTERPRETER
In*ter"pret*er, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. entrepreteur, L. interpretator.]

Defn: One who or that which interprets, explains, or expounds; a
translator; especially, a person who translates orally between two
parties.
We think most men's actions to be the interpreters of their thoughts.
Locke.

INTERPRETIVE
In*ter"pre*tive, a.

Defn: Interpretative. [R.]

INTERPUBIC
In`ter*pu"bic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the pubic bones or cartilages; as, the interpubic disk.

INTERPUNCTION
In`ter*punc"tion, n. Etym: [L. interpunctio, fr. interpungere,
interppunctum, to interpoint. See Inter-, and Point.]

Defn: The insertion of points between word or sentences; punctuation.

INTERRADIAL
In`ter*ra"di*al, a.

Defn: Between the radii, or rays; -- in zoölogy, said of certain
parts of radiate animals; as, the interradial plates of a starfish.

INTERRAMAL
In`ter*ra"mal, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + L. ramus a branch.] (Anat.)

Defn: Between rami or branches; esp., between the mandibles, or rami
of the lower jaw; intermandibular.

INTERRECEIVE
In`ter*re*ceive", v. t.

Defn: To receive between or within.

INTERREGENCY
In`ter*re"gen*cy, n.

Defn: An interregnum. [Obs.] Blount.

INTERREGENT
In`ter*re"gent, n.

Defn: A person who discharges the royal functions during an
interregnum. Holland.

INTERREGNUM
In`ter*reg"num, n.; pl. Interregnums. Etym: [L., fr. inter between +
regnum dominion, reign. See Reign, and cf. Interreign.]

1. The time during which a throne is vacant between the death or
abdication of a sovereign and the accession of his successor.

2. Any period during which, for any cause, the executive branch of a
government is suspended or interrupted.

INTERREIGN
In"ter*reign`, n. Etym: [Cf. F. interrègne.]

Defn: An interregnum. [Obs.] Bacon.

INTERRELATED
In`ter*re*lat"ed, a.

Defn: Having a mutual or reciprocal relation or parallelism;
correlative.

INTERRELATION
In`ter*re*la"tion, n.

Defn: Mutual or reciprocal relation; correlation.

INTERRENAL
In`ter*re"nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the kidneys; as, the interrenal body, an organ found in
many fishes.
 -- n.

Defn: The interrenal body.

INTERREPELLENT
In`ter*re*pel"lent, a.

Defn: Mutually repellent. De Quincey.

INTERRER
In*ter"rer, n.

Defn: One who inters.

INTERREX
In"ter*rex`, n.; pl. E. Interrexes, L. Interreges. Etym: [L., fr.
inter between + rex king.]

Defn: An interregent, or a regent.

INTERROGATE
In*ter"ro*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interrogating.] Etym: [L.
interrogatus, p. p. of interrogare to ask; inter between + rogare to
ask. See Rogation.]

Defn: To question formally; to question; to examine by asking
questions; as, to interrogate a witness.
Wilt thou, uncalled, interrogate, Talker! the unreplying Fate
Emerson.

Syn.
 -- To question; ask. See Question.

INTERROGATE
In*ter"ro*gate, v. i.

Defn: To ask questions. Bacon.

INTERROGATE
In*ter"ro*gate, n.

Defn: An interrogation; a question. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

INTERROGATEE
In*ter`ro*ga*tee", n.

Defn: One who is interrogated.

INTERROGATION
In*ter`ro*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. interrogatio: cf. F. interrogation.]

1. The act of interrogating or questioning; examination by questions;
inquiry.

2. A question put; an inquiry.

3. A point, mark, or sign, thus [], indicating that the sentence with
which it is connected is a question. It is used to express doubt, or
to mark a query. Called also interrogation point.

Note: In works printed in the Spanish language this mark is not only
placed at the end of an interrogative sentence, but is also placed,
inverted [as thus (¿)], at the beginning.

INTERROGATIVE
In`ter*rog"a*tive (, a. Etym: [L. interrogativus: cf. F.
interrogatif.]

Defn: Denoting a question; expressed in the form of a question; as,
an interrogative sentence; an interrogative pronoun.

INTERROGATIVE
In`ter*rog"a*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: A word used in asking questions; as, who which why

INTERROGATIVELY
In`ter*rog"a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In the form of, or by means of, a question; in an interrogative
manner.

INTERROGATOR
In*ter"ro*ga`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. interrogateur.]

Defn: One who asks questions; a questioner.

INTERROGATORY
In`ter*rog"a*to*ry, n.; pl. Interrogatories. Etym: [Cf. F.
interrogatoire.]

Defn: A formal question or inquiry; esp. (Law), a question asked in
writing. Macaulay.

INTERROGATORY
In`ter*rog"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. interrogatorius.]

Defn: Containing, expressing, or implying a question; as, an
interrogatory sentence.

INTERRUPT
In`ter*rupt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interrupted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interrupting.] Etym: [L. interruptus, p. p. of interrumpere to
interrupt; inter between + rumpere to break. See Rupture.]

1. To break into, or between; to stop, or hinder by breaking in upon
the course or progress of; to interfere with the current or motion
of; to cause a temporary cessation of; as, to interrupt the remarks
speaking.
Do not interrupt me in my course. Shak.

2. To divide; to separate; to break the monotony of; as, the evenness
of the road was not interrupted by a single hill.

INTERRUPT
In`ter*rupt", p. a. Etym: [L. interruptus, p. p.]

Defn: Broken; interrupted. [Obs.] Milton.

INTERRUPTED
In`ter*rupt"ed, a.

1. Broken; intermitted; suddenly stopped.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Irregular; -- said of any arrangement whose symmetry is
destroyed by local causes, as when leaflets are interposed among the
leaves in a pinnate leaf.

INTERRUPTEDLY
In`ter*rupt"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: With breaks or interruptions; discontinuously. Interruptedly
pinnate (Bot.), pinnate with small leaflets intermixed with large
ones. Gray.

INTERRUPTER
In`ter*rupt"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, interrupts.

2. (Elec.)

Defn: A device for opening and closing an electrical circuit; a
vibrating spring or tuning fork, arranged to make and break a circuit
at rapidly recurring intervals, by the action of the current itself.

INTERRUPTION
In`ter*rup"tion, n. Etym: [L. interruptio: cf. F. interruption.]

1. The act of interrupting, or breaking in upon.

2. The state of being interrupted; a breach or break, caused by the
abrupt intervention of something foreign; intervention;
interposition. Sir M. Hale.
Lest the interruption of time cause you to lose the idea of one part.
Dryden.

3. Obstruction caused by breaking in upon course, current, progress,
or motion; stop; hindrance; as, the author has met with many
interruptions in the execution of his work; the speaker or the
argument proceeds without interruption.

4. Temporary cessation; intermission; suspension.

INTERRUPTIVE
In`ter*rupt"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to interrupt; interrupting. "Interruptive forces." H.
Bushnell.
 -- In`ter*rupt"ive*ly, adv.

INTERSCAPULAR
In`ter*scap"u*lar, a.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the scapulæ or shoulder blades.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the upper back, or the part between the
shoulders; as, the interscapular feathers.

INTERSCAPULARS
In`ter*scap"u*lars, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The interscapular feathers of a bird.

INTERSCENDENT
In`ter*scend"ent, a. Etym: [See Inter-, and Ascend.] (Math.)

Defn: Having exponents which are radical quantities; -- said of
certain powers; as, xsq. root2, or xsq. roota. Interscedent series, a
series whose terms are interscendent quantities. Hutton.

INTERSCIND
In`ter*scind", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interscinded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interscinding.] Etym: [L. interscindere; inter between + scindere to
cut.]

Defn: To cut off. [R.]

INTERSCRIBE
In`ter*scribe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interscribed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interscribing.] Etym: [L. interscribere; inter between + scribere to
write.]

Defn: To write between. [R.]

INTERSECANT
In`ter*se"cant, a. Etym: [L. intersecans, p. pr. of intersecare. See
Intersect.]

Defn: Dividing into parts; crossing; intersecting.

INTERSECT
In`ter*sect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intersected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intersecting.] Etym: [L. intersectus, p. p. of intersecare to
intersect; inter + secare to cut. See Section.]

Defn: To cut into or between; to cut or cross mutually; to divide
into parts; as, any two diameters of a circle intersect each other at
the center.
Lands intersected by a narrow frith Abhor each other. Cowper.

INTERSECT
In`ter*sect", v. i.

Defn: To cut into one another; to meet and cross each other; as, the
point where two lines intersect.

INTERSECTION
In`ter*sec"tion, n. Etym: [L. intersectio: cf. F. intersection.]

1. The act, state, or place of intersecting.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: The point or line in which one line or surface cuts another.

INTERSECTIONAL
In`ter*sec"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or formed by, intersections.

INTERSEMINATE
In`ter*sem"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. interseminatus, p. p. of
interseminare. See Inter-, and Seminate.]

Defn: To sow between or among. [R.]

INTERSEPTAL
In`ter*sep"tal, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Between septa; as, the interseptal spaces or zones, between the
transparent, or septal, zones in striated muscle; the interseptal
chambers of a shell, or of a seed vessel.

INTERSERT
In`ter*sert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interserted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interserting.] Etym: [L. intersertus, p. p. of interserere to
intersert; inter between + serere to join, weave.]

Defn: To put in between other things; to insert. [Obs.] Brerewood.

INTERSERTTION
In`ter*sert"tion, n.

Defn: The act of interserting, or that which is interserted. [Obs.]
Hammond.

INTERSESAMOID
In`ter*ses"a*moid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between sesamoid bones; as, intersesamoid ligaments.

INTERSET
In`ter*set", v. t.

Defn: To set between or among. [R.]

INTERSHOCK
In`ter*shock, v. t.

Defn: To shock mutually. [R.]

INTERSIDEREAL
In`ter*si*de"re*al, a.

Defn: Between or among constellations or stars; interstellar.

INTERSOCIAL
In`ter*so"cial, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the mutual intercourse or relations of persons in
society; social.

INTERSOMNIOUS
In`ter*som"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + L. somnus sleep.]

Defn: Between the times of sleeping; in an interval of wakefulness.
[R.]

INTERSPACE
In"ter*space`, n. Etym: [L. interspatium. See Inter-, and Space.]

Defn: Intervening space. Bp. Hacket.

INTERSPEECH
In"ter*speech`, n.

Defn: A speech interposed between others. [R.] Blount.

INTERSPERSE
In`ter*sperse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interspersed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interspersing.] Etym: [L. interspersus interspersed; inter between,
among + spargere to scatter. See Sparse.]

1. To scatter or set here and there among other things; to insert at
intervals; as, to intersperse pictures in a book.
There, interspersed in lawns and op'ning glades, Thin trees arise
that shun each other's shades. Pope.

2. To diversify or adorn with things set or scattered at intervals;
to place something at intervals in or among; as, to intersperse a
book with pictures.
Which space is interspersed with small islands and rock. Cook.

INTERSPERSION
In`ter*sper"sion, n.

Defn: The act of interspersing, or the state of being interspersed.

INTERSPINAL; INTERSPINOUS
In`ter*spi"nal, In`ter*spi"nous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between spines; esp., between the spinous processes of the
vertebral column.

INTERSPIRATION
In`ter*spi*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. interspiratio. See Inter-, and
Spirit.]

Defn: Spiritual inspiration at separate times, or at intervals.
[Obs.] Bp. Hall.

INTERSTAPEDIAL
In`ter*sta*pe"di*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, between the
stapes and the mediostapedial.
 -- n.

Defn: The interstapedial part of the columella.

INTERSTATE
In"ter*state`, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the mutual relations of States; existing between,
or including, different States; as, interstate commerce. Story.

INTERSTELLAR
In`ter*stel"lar, a.

Defn: Between or among the stars; as, interstellar space. Bacon.

INTERSTELLARY
In`ter*stel"la*ry, a.

Defn: Interstellar.

INTERSTERNAL
In`ter*ster"nal, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Between the sternal; -- said of certain membranes or parts of
insects and crustaceans.

INTERSTICE
In*ter"stice, n.; pl. Interstices. Etym: [L. interstitium a pause,
interval; inter between + sistere to set, fr. stare to stand: cf. F.
interstice. See Stand.]

1. That which intervenes between one thing and another; especially, a
space between things closely set, or between the parts which compose
a body; a narrow chink; a crack; a crevice; a hole; an interval; as,
the interstices of a wall.

2. An interval of time; specifically (R. C. Ch.), in the plural, the
intervals which the canon law requires between the reception of the
various degrees of orders.
Nonobservance of the interstices . . . is a sin. Addis & Arnold.

INTERSTICED
In*ter"sticed, a.

Defn: Provided with interstices; having interstices between; situated
at intervals.

INTERSTINCTIVE
In`ter*stinc"tive, a. Etym: [L. interstinctus, p. p. of
interstinguere to separate; inter + stinguere to extinguish.]

Defn: Distinguishing. [Obs.] Wallis.

INTERSTITIAL
In`ter*sti"tial, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to interstices; intermediate; within the
tissues; as, interstitial cavities or spaces in the tissues of
animals or plants.

INTERSTITION
In`ter*sti"tion, n.

Defn: An intervening period of time; interval. [Obs.] Gower.

INTERSTRATIFICATION
In`ter*strat`i*fi*ca"tion, n. (Geol.)

Defn: Stratification among or between other layers or strata; also,
that which is interstratified.

INTERSTRATIFIED
In`ter*strat"i*fied, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Stratified among or between other bodies; as, interstratified
rocks.

INTERSTRATIFY
In`ter*strat"i*fy, v. t. (Geol.)

Defn: To put or insert between other strata.

INTERTALK
In`ter*talk", v. i.

Defn: To converse. [Obs.] Carew.

INTERTANGLE
In`ter*tan"gle, v. t.

Defn: To entangle; to intertwine. "Moss and intertangled vines."
Longfellow.

INTERTARSAL
In`ter*tar"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the tarsal bones; as, the intertarsal articulations.

INTERTEX
In`ter*tex", v. t. Etym: [L. intertexere; inter between + texere to
weave.]

Defn: To intertwine; to weave or bind together. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

INTERTEXTURE
In`ter*tex"ture, n.

Defn: The act of interweaving, or the state of being interwoven; that
which is interwoven. "Knit in nice intertexture." Coleridge.
Skirted thick with intertexture firm Of thorny boughs. Cowper.

INTERTHORACIC
In`ter*tho*rac"ic, a.

Defn: In the thorax.

INTERTIE
In"ter*tie`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: In any framed work, a horizontal tie other than sill and plate
or other principal ties, securing uprights to one another.

INTERTISSUED
In`ter*tis"sued, a.

Defn: Interwoven. [R.] Shak.

INTERTRAFFIC
In`ter*traf"fic, n.

Defn: Mutual trade of traffic.

INTERTRANSPICUOUS
In`ter*tran*spic"u*ous, a.

Defn: Transpicuous within or between. [R.] Shelley.

INTERTRANSVERSE
In`ter*trans*verse", a.

Defn: Between the transverse processes of the vertebræ.

INTERTRIGO
In`ter*tri"go, n. Etym: [L., fr. inter between + terere, tritum, to
rub.] (Med.)

Defn: A rubbing or chafing of the skin; especially, an abrasion or
excoriation of the skin between folds, as in fat or neglected
children.

INTERTROCHANTERIC
In`ter*tro`chan*ter"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the trochanters of the femur.

INTERTROPICAL
In`ter*trop"ic*al, a.

Defn: Situated between or within the tropics. J. Morse.

INTERTUBULAR
In`ter*tu"bu*lar, a.

Defn: Between tubes or tubules; as, intertubular cells; intertubular
substance.

INTERTWINE
In`ter*twine", v. t.

Defn: To unite by twining one with another; to entangle; to
interlace. Milton.

INTERTWINE
In`ter*twine", v. i.

Defn: To be twined or twisted together; to become mutually involved
or enfolded.

INTERTWINE
In`ter*twine", n.

Defn: The act intertwining, or the state of being intertwined.
Coleridge.

INTERTWININGLY
In`ter*twin"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By intertwining or being intertwined.

INTERTWIST
In`ter*twist", v. t.

Defn: To twist together one with another; to intertwine.

INTERTWISTINGLY
In`ter*twist"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By intertwisting, or being intertwisted.

INTERUNGULAR; INTERUNGULATE
In`ter*un"gu*lar, In`ter*un"gu*late, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between ungulæ; as, interungular glands.

INTERURBAN
In`ter*ur"ban (in`ter*ûr"ban), a.

Defn: Going between, or connecting, cities or towns; as, interurban
electric railways.

INTERVAL
In"ter*val, n. Etym: [L. intervallum; inter between + vallum a wall:
cf. F. intervalle. See Wall.]

1. A space between things; a void space intervening between any two
objects; as, an interval between two houses or hills.
'Twixt host and host but narrow space was left, A dreadful interval.
Milton.

2. Space of time between any two points or events; as, the interval
between the death of Charles I. of England, and the accession of
Charles II.

3. A brief space of time between the recurrence of similar conditions
or states; as, the interval between paroxysms of pain; intervals of
sanity or delirium.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: Difference in pitch between any two tones. At intervals, coming
or happening with intervals between; now and then. "And Miriam
watch'd and dozed at intervals." Tennyson.
 -- Augmented interval (Mus.), an interval increased by half a step
or half a tone.

INTERVAL; INTERVALE
In"ter*val, In"ter*vale, n.

Defn: A tract of low ground between hills, or along the banks of a
stream, usually alluvial land, enriched by the overflowings of the
river, or by fertilizing deposits of earth from the adjacent hills.
Cf. Bottom, n., 7. [Local, U. S.]
The woody intervale just beyond the marshy land. The Century.

INTERVALLUM
In`ter*val"lum, n.; pl. Intervallums, L. Intervalla. Etym: [L.]

Defn: An interval. [R.]
And a' shall laugh without intervallums. Shak.
In one of these intervalla. Chillingworth.

INTERVARY
In`ter*va"ry, v. i.

Defn: To alter or vary between; to change. [Obs.] Rush.

INTERVEINED
In`ter*veined", a.

Defn: Intersected, as with veins.

INTERVENE
In`ter*vene", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Intervened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intervening.] Etym: [L. intervenire, interventum, to intervene, to
hinder; inter between + venire to come; akin to E. come: cf. F.
intervenir. See Come.]

1. To come between, or to be between, persons or things; -- followed
by between; as, the Mediterranean intervenes between Europe and
Africa.

2. To occur, fall, or come between, points of time, or events; as, an
instant intervened between the flash and the report; nothing
intervened ( i. e., between the intention and the execution) to
prevent the undertaking.

3. To interpose; as, to intervene to settle a quarrel.

4. In a suit to which one has not been made a party, to put forward a
defense of one's interest in the subject matter. Abbott.

INTERVENE
In`ter*vene", v. t.

Defn: To come between. [R.]
Self-sown woodlands of birch, alder, etc., intervening the different
estates. De Quincey.

INTERVENE
In`ter*vene", n.

Defn: A coming between; intervention; meeting. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

INTERVENER
In`ter*ven"er, n.

Defn: One who intervenes; especially (Law), a person who assumes a
part in a suit between others.

INTERVENIENCE; INTERVENIENCY
In`ter*ven"ience, In`ter*ven"ien*cy, n.

Defn: Intervention; interposition. [R.]

INTERVENIENT
In`ter*ven"ient, a. Etym: [L. interveniens, p. pr. of intervenire.]

Defn: Being or coming between; intercedent; interposed. [Obs.] Bacon.

INTERVENT
In`ter*vent", v. t. Etym: [See Intervene.]

Defn: To thwart; to obstruct. [Obs.] Chapman.

INTERVENTION
In`ter*ven"tion, n. Etym: [L. interventio an interposition: cf. F.
intervention.]

1. The act of intervening; interposition.
Sound is shut out by the intervention of that lax membrane. Holder.

2. Any interference that may affect the interests of others;
especially, of one or more states with the affairs of another;
mediation.
Let us decide our quarrels at home, without the intervention, of any
foreign power. Sir W. Temple.

3. (Civil Law)

Defn: The act by which a third person, to protect his own interest,
interposes and becomes a party to a suit pending between other
parties.

INTERVENTOR
In`ter*ven"tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. interventeur.]

Defn: One who intervenes; a mediator; especially (Eccles. Hist.), a
person designated by a church to reconcile parties, and unite them in
the choice of officers. Coleman.

INTERVENTRICULAR
In`ter*ven*tric"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the ventricles; as, the interventricular partition of
the heart.

INTERVENUE
In`ter*ven"ue, n. Etym: [See Intervene, Avenue.]

Defn: Interposition. [Obs.] Sir H. Blount.

INTERVERT
In`ter*vert", v. t. Etym: [L. intervertere; inter between + vertere
to turn.]

Defn: To turn to another course or use. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

INTERVERTEBRAL
In`ter*ver"te*bral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between vertebræ.
 -- In`ter*ver"te*bral*ly, adv.

INTERVIEW
In"ter*view, n. Etym: [F. entrevue, fr. entrevoir to see imperfectly,
to have a glimpse of, s'entrevoir to visit each other. See Inter-,
and View.]

1. A mutual sight or view; a meeting face to face; usually, a formal
or official meeting for consultation; a conference; as, the secretary
had an interview with the President.

2. A conservation, or questioning, for the purpose of eliciting
information for publication; the published statement so elicited.

Note: A recent use, originating in American newspapers, but
apparently becoming general.

INTERVIEW
In"ter*view, v. t.

Defn: To have an interview with; to question or converse with,
especially for the purpose of obtaining information for publication.
[Recent]

INTERVIEWER
In"ter*view`er, n.

Defn: One who interviews; especially, one who obtains an interview
with another for the purpose of eliciting his opinions or obtaining
information for publication.
It would have made him the prince of interviewers in these days.
Leslie Stephen.

INTERVIEWING
In"ter*view`ing, n.

Defn: The act or custom of holding an interview or interviews.
An article on interviewing in the "Nation" of January 28, 1869, . . .
was the first formal notice of the practice under that name. The
American.

INTERVISIBLE
In`ter*vis"i*ble, a. (Surv.)

Defn: Mutually visible, or in sight, the one from the other, as
stations.

INTERVISIT
In`ter*vis"it, v. i.

Defn: To exchange visits. [R.] Evelyn.

INTERVITAL
In`ter*vi"tal, a.

Defn: Between two lives. [R.]
Through all its [the spirit's] intervital gloom. Tennyson.

INTERVOCALIC
In`ter*vo*cal"ic, a. (Phon.)

Defn: Situated between vowels; immediately preceded and followed by
vowel sounds, as, p in occupy, d in idea, etc.

INTERVOLUTION
In`ter*vo*lu"tion, n.

Defn: The state of being intervolved or coiled up; a convolution; as,
the intervolutions of a snake. Hawthorne.

INTERVOLVE
In`ter*volve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intervolved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intervolving.] Etym: [Pref. inter- + L. volvere, volutum, to roll.]

Defn: To involve one within another; to twist or coil together.
Milton.

INTERWEAVE
In`ter*weave", v. t. [imp. & obs. p. p. Interwove; p. p. Interwoven;
p. pr. & vb. n. Interweaving.]

1. To weave together; to intermix or unite in texture or
construction; to intertwine; as, threads of silk and cotton
interwoven.
Under the hospitable covert nigh Of trees thick interwoven. Milton.

2. To intermingle; to unite intimately; to connect closely; as, to
interweave truth with falsehood. Dryden.
Words interwove with sighs found out their way. Milton.

INTERWISH
In`ter*wish", v. t.

Defn: To wish mutually in regarded to each other. [Obs.] Donne.

INTERWORKING
In`ter*work"ing, n.

Defn: The act of working in together; interweaving. Milton.

INTERWORLD
In`ter*world", n.

Defn: A world between other worlds. Holland.

INTERWOVE; INTERWOVEN
In`ter*wove", In`ter*wov"en,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Interweave.

INTERWREATHE
In`ter*wreathe", v. t.

Defn: To weave into a wreath; to intertwine. [R.] Lovelace.

INTESTABLE
In*tes"ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. intestabilis: cf. F. intestable. See In-
not, and Testable.] (Law)

Defn: Not capable of making a will; not legally qualified or
competent to make a testament. Blackstone.

INTESTACY
In*tes"ta*cy, n. Etym: [From Intestate.]

Defn: The state of being intestate, or of dying without having made a
valid will. Blackstone.

INTESTATE
In*tes"tate, a. Etym: [L. intestatus; pref. in- not + testatus, p. p.
of testari to make a will: cf. F. intestat. See Testament.]

1. Without having made a valid will; without a will; as, to die
intestate. Blackstone.
Airy succeeders of intestate joys. Shak.

2. Not devised or bequeathed; not disposed of by will; as, an
intestate estate.

INTESTATE
In*tes"tate, n. (Law)

Defn: A person who dies without making a valid will. Blackstone.

INTESTINAL
In*tes"ti*nal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. intestinal.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the intestines of an animal; as, the
intestinal tube; intestinal digestion; intestinal ferments.
Intestinal canal. Same as Intestine, n.
 -- Intestinal worm (Zoöl.), any species of helminth living in the
intestinal canal of any animal. The species are numerous.

INTESTINE
In*tes"tine, a. Etym: [L. intestinus, fr. intus on the inside,
within, fr. in in: cf. F. intestine. See In.]

1. Internal; inward; -- opposed to external.
Epilepsies, fierce catarrhs, Intestine stone and ulcers. Milton.

2. Internal with regard to a state or country; domestic; not foreign;
-- applied usually to that which is evil; as, intestine disorders,
calamities, etc.
Hoping here to end Intestine war in heaven, the arch foe subdued.
Milton.
An intestine struggle . . . between authority and liberty. Hume.

3. Depending upon the internal constitution of a body or entity;
subjective.
Everything labors under and intestine necessity. Cudworth.

4. Shut up; inclosed. [R.] Cowper.

INTESTINE
In*tes"tine, n.; pl. Intestines. Etym: [L. intestinum: cf. F.
intestin. See Intestine, a.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: That part of the alimentary canal between the stomach and the
anus. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus.

2. pl.

Defn: The bowels; entrails; viscera. Large intestine (Human Anat. &
Med.), the lower portion of the bowel, terminating at the anus. It is
adapted for the retention of fecal matter, being shorter, broader,
and less convoluted than the small intestine; it consists of three
parts, the cæcum, colon, and rectum.
 -- Small intestine (Human Anat. & Med.), the upper portion of the
bowel, in which the process of digestion is practically completed. It
is narrow and contorted, and consists of three parts, the duodenum,
jejunum, and ileum.

INTEXT
In"text, n.

Defn: The text of a book. [R.] Herrick.

INTEXTINE
In*tex"tine, n. Etym: [Infine + extine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A thin membrane existing in the pollen grains of some plants,
and situated between the extine and the intine, as in .

INTEXTURED
In*tex"tured, a.

Defn: Inwrought; woven in.

INTHIRST
In*thirst", v. t.

Defn: To make thirsty. [Obs.]

INTHRALL
In*thrall", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inthralled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inthralling.] Etym: [Cf. Enthrall.] [Written also inthral, enthral,
and enthrall.]

Defn: To reduce to bondage or servitude; to make a thrall, slave,
vassal, or captive of; to enslave.
She soothes, but never can inthrall my mind. Prior.

INTHRALLMENT
In*thrall"ment, n. Etym: [Written also inthralment, enthrallment.]

Defn: Act of inthralling, or state of being inthralled; servitude;
bondage; vassalage.

INTHRONE
In*throne", v. t.

Defn: Same as Enthrone.

INTHRONG
In*throng", v. i.

Defn: To throng or collect together. [R.] Fairfax.

INTHRONIZATION
In*thron`i*za"tion, n. Etym: [LL. inthronizatio.]

Defn: Enthronement. Bp. Warburton.

INTHRONIZE
In*thron"ize, v. t. Etym: [LL. inthronisare, Gr. Enthrone.]

Defn: To enthrone.

INTICE
In*tice", v. t.

Defn: See Entice.

INTIMACY
In"ti*ma*cy, n.; pl. Intimacies. Etym: [From Intimate.]

Defn: The state of being intimate; close familiarity or association;
nearness in friendship.

Syn.
 -- Acquaintance; familiarity; fellowship; friendship. See
Acquaintance.

INTIMATE
In"ti*mate, a. Etym: [Formerly intime, L. intimus, a superl.
corresponding to the compar. interior cf. F. intime. The form
intimate is due to confusion with intimate, v. t. See Interior.]

1. Innermost; inward; internal; deep-seated; hearty. "I knew from
intimate impulse." Milton.

2. Near; close; direct; thorough; complete.
He was honored with an intimate and immediate admission. South.

3. Close in friendship or acquaintance; familiar; confidential; as,
an intimate friend.

Syn.
 -- Familiar; near; friendly; confidential.

INTIMATE
In"ti*mate, n.

Defn: An intimate friend or associate; a confidant. Gov. of the
Tongue.

INTIMATE
In"ti*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intimated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intimating.] Etym: [L. intimatus, p. p. of intimare to put, bring,
drive, or press into, to announce, make known, from intimus the
inmost. See Intimate, a.]

1. To announce; to declare; to publish; to communicate; to make
known. [Obs.]
He, incontinent, did proclaim and intimate open war. E. Hall.
So both conspiring 'gan to intimate Each other's grief. Spenser.

2. To suggest obscurely or indirectly; to refer to remotely; to give
slight notice of; to hint; as, he intimated his intention of
resigning his office.
The names of simple ideas and substances, with the abstract ideas in
the mind, intimate some real existence, from which was derived their
original pattern. Locke.

INTIMATELY
In"ti*mate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intimate manner.

INTIMATION
In`ti*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. intimatio: cf. F. intimation.]

1. The act of intimating; also, the thing intimated.

2. Announcement; declaration. Macaulay.
They made an edict with an intimation that whosoever killed a stork,
should be banished. Holland.

3. A hint; an obscure or indirect suggestion or notice; a remote or
ambiguous reference; as, he had given only intimations of his design.
Without mentioning the king of England, or giving the least
intimation that he was sent by him. Bp. Burnet.

INTIME
In"time, a. Etym: [See Intimate, a.]

Defn: Inward; internal; intimate. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby.

INTIMIDATE
In*tim"i*date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intimidated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intimidating.] Etym: [LL. intimidatus, p. p. of intimidare to
frighten; pref. in- in + timidus fearful, timid: cf. F. intimider.
See Timid.]

Defn: To make timid or fearful; to inspire of affect with fear; to
deter, as by threats; to dishearten; to abash.
Now guilt, once harbored in the conscious breast, Intimidates the
brave, degrades the great. Johnson.

Syn.
 -- To dishearten; dispirit; abash; deter; frighten; terrify; daunt;
cow.

INTIMIDATION
In*tim`i*da"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intimidation.]

Defn: The act of making timid or fearful or of deterring by threats;
the state of being intimidated; as, the voters were kept from the
polls by intimidation.
The king carried his measures in Parliament by intimidation. Paley.

INTIMIDATORY
In*tim"i*da*to*ry, a.

Defn: Tending or serving to intimidate.

INTINCTION
In*tinc"tion, n. Etym: [L. intinctio, fr. intingere to dip in; pref.
in- in + tingere to tinge.]

1. The act of tingeing or dyeing. Blount.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A method or practice of the administration of the sacrament by
dipping the bread or wafer in the wine and administering both
together.

INTINCTIVITY
In`tinc*tiv"i*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + L. tinctus, p. p. of
tingere to tinge]

Defn: The want of the quality of coloring or tingeing other bodies.
Kirwan.

INTINE
In"tine, n. Etym: [L. intus within. Cf. Extine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A transparent, extensible membrane of extreme tenuity, which
forms the innermost coating of grains of pollen.

INTIRE; INTIRELY
In*tire", a., In*tire"ly, adv.

Defn: See Entire, a., Entirely, adv.

INTITLE
In*ti"tle, v. t.

Defn: See Entitle.

INTITULE
In*tit"ule, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intituled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intituling.] Etym: [Cf. F. intituler. See Entitle.]

Defn: To entitle; to give a title to. Selden.

INTO
In"to, prep. Etym: [In + to.]

Defn: To the inside of; within. It is used in a variety of
applications.

1. Expressing entrance, or a passing from the outside of a thing to
its interior parts; -- following verbs expressing motion; as, come
into the house; go into the church; one stream falls or runs into
another; water enters into the fine vessels of plants.

2. Expressing penetration beyond the outside or surface, or access to
the inside, or contents; as, to look into a letter or book; to look
into an apartment.

3. Indicating insertion; as, to infuse more spirit or animation into
a composition.

4. Denoting inclusion; as, put these ideas into other words.

5. Indicating the passing of a thing from one form, condition, or
state to another; as, compound substances may be resolved into others
which are more simple; ice is convertible into water, and water into
vapor; men are more easily drawn than forced into compliance; we may
reduce many distinct substances into one mass; men are led by
evidence into belief of truth, and are often enticed into the
commission of crimes'into; she burst into tears; children are
sometimes frightened into fits; all persons are liable to be seduced
into error and folly.

Note: Compare In.

INTOLERABILITY
In*tol`er*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being intolerable; intolerableness. [R.]

INTOLERABLE
In*tol"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [F. intolérable, L. intolerabilis. See In-
not, and Tolerable.]

1. Not tolerable; not capable of being borne or endured; not proper
or right to be allowed; insufferable; insupportable; unbearable; as,
intolerable pain; intolerable heat or cold; an intolerable burden.

His insolence is more intolerable Than all the princes in the land
beside. Shak.

4. Enormous.
This intolerable deal of sack. Shak.
-- In*tol"er*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*tol"er*a*bly, adv.

INTOLERANCE
In*tol"er*ance, n. Etym: [L. intolerantia impatience,
unendurableness: cf. F. intolérance.]

1. Want of capacity to endure; as, intolerance of light.

2. The quality of being intolerant; refusal to allow to others the
enjoyment of their opinions, chosen modes of worship, and the like;
want of patience and forbearance; illiberality; bigotry; as,
intolerance shown toward a religious sect.
These few restrictions, I hope, are no great stretches of
intolerance, no very violent exertions of despotism. Burke.

INTOLERANCY
In*tol"er*an*cy, n.

Defn: Intolerance. Bailey.

INTOLERANT
In*tol"er*ant, a. Etym: [L. intolerans, -antis: cf. F. intolérant.
See In- not, and Tolerant.]

1. Not enduring; not able to endure.
The powers of human bodies being limited and intolerant of excesses.
Arbuthnot.

2. Not tolerating difference of opinion or sentiment, especially in
religious matters; refusing to allow others the enjoyment of their
opinions, rights, or worship; unjustly impatient of the opinion of
those disagree with us; not tolerant; unforbearing; bigoted.
Religion, harsh, intolerant, austere, Parent of manners like herself
severe. Cowper.

INTOLERANT
In*tol"er*ant, n.

Defn: An intolerant person; a bigot.

INTOLERANTLY
In*tol"er*ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intolerant manner.

INTOLERATED
In*tol"er*a`ted, a.

Defn: Not tolerated.

INTOLERATING
In*tol"er*a`ting, a.

Defn: Intolerant. [R.]

INTOLERATION
In*tol`er*a"tion, n.

Defn: Intolerance; want of toleration; refusal to tolerate a
difference of opinion.

INTOMB
In*tomb", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intombed; p. pr. & vb. n. Intombing.]

Defn: To place in a tomb; to bury; to entomb. See Entomb.

INTOMBMENT
In*tomb"ment, n.

Defn: See Entombment.

INTONATE
In"to*nate, v. i. Etym: [L. intonatus, p. p. of intonare to thunder,
resound.]

Defn: To thunder. [Obs.] Bailey.

INTONATE
In"to*nate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Intonated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intonating.] Etym: [See Intone.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: To sound the tones of the musical scale; to practice the sol-
fa.

2. To modulate the voice in a musical, sonorous, and measured manner,
as in reading the liturgy; to intone.

INTONATE
In"to*nate, v. t.

Defn: To utter in a musical or sonorous manner; to chant; as, to
intonate the liturgy.

INTONATION
In`to*na"tion, n. Etym: [See 1st Intonate.]

Defn: A thundering; thunder. [Obs.] Bailey.

INTONATION
In`to*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intonation. See Intone.] (Mus.)
(a) The act of sounding the tones of the musical scale.
(b) Singing or playing in good tune or otherwise; as, her intonation
was false.
(c) Reciting in a musical prolonged tone; intonating, or singing of
the opening phrase of a plain-chant, psalm, or canticle by a single
voice, as of a priest. See Intone, v. t.

INTONE
In*tone", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Intoning.]
Etym: [LL. intonare, intonatum; pref. in- in + L. tonus tone. See
Tone and cf. Entune, Intonate.]

Defn: To utter with a musical or prolonged note or tone; to chant;
as, to intone the church service.

INTONE
In*tone", v. i.

Defn: To utter a prolonged tone or a deep, protracted sound; to speak
or recite in a measured, sonorous manner; to intonate. Pope.

INTORSION
In*tor"sion, n. Etym: [L. intortio a curling, crisping: cf. F.
intorsion. See Intort, and cf. Intortion.]

1. A winding, bending, or twisting.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The bending or twining of any part of a plant toward one side
or the other, or in any direction from the vertical.

INTORT
In*tort", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intorted; p. pr. & vb. n. Intorting.]
Etym: [L. intortus, p. p. of intoquere to twist; pref. in- in +
torquere to twist.]

Defn: To twist in and out; to twine; to wreathe; to wind; to wring.
Pope.

INTORTION
In*tor"tion, n.

Defn: See Intorsion.

INTOXICANT
In*tox"i*cant, n.

Defn: That which intoxicates; an intoxicating agent; as, alcohol,
opium, and laughing gas are intoxicants.

INTOXICATE
In*tox"i*cate, a. Etym: [LL. intoxicatus, p. p. of intoxicare to drug
or poison; pref. in- in + L. toxicum a poison in which arrows were
dipped, Gr. Toxic.]

1. Intoxicated.

2. Overexcited, as with joy or grief.
Alas, good mother, be not intoxicate for me; I am well enough.
Chapman.

INTOXICATE
In*tox"i*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intoxicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intoxicating.]

1. To poison; to drug. South.

2. To make drunk; to inebriate; to excite or to stupefy by strong
drink or by a narcotic substance.
With new wine inoxicated both. Milton.

3. To excite to a transport of enthusiasm, frenzy, or madness; to
elate unduly or excessively.
Intoxicated with the sound of those very bells. G. Eliot.
They are not intoxicated by military success. Jowett (Thuc. ).

INTOXICATEDNESS
In*tox"i*ca`ted*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being intoxicated; intoxication; drunkenness. [R.]

INTOXICATING
In*tox"i*ca`ting, a.

Defn: Producing intoxication; as, intoxicating liquors.

INTOXICATION
In*tox`i*ca"tion, n.

1. (Med.)

Defn: A poisoning, as by a spirituous or a narcotic substance.

2. The state of being intoxicated or drunk; inebriation; ebriety;
drunkenness; the act of intoxicating or making drunk.

2. A high excitement of mind; an elation which rises to enthusiasm,
frenzy, or madness.
That secret intoxication of pleasure. Spectator.

Syn.
 -- Drunkenness; inebriation; inebriety; ebriety; infatuation;
delirium. See Drunkenness.

INTRA-
In"tra-. Etym: [L. intra, prep., within, on the inside; akin to
inter. See Inter-.]

Defn: A prefix signifying in, within, interior; as, intraocular,
within the eyeball; intramarginal.

INTRAAXILLARY
In`tra*ax"il*la*ry, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Situated below the point where a leaf joins the stem.

INTRACELLULAR
In`tra*cel"lu*lar, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Within a cell; as, the intracellular movements seen in the
pigment cells, the salivary cells, and in the protoplasm of some
vegetable cells.

INTRACOLIC
In`tra*col"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Within the colon; as, the intracolic valve.

INTRACRANIAL
In`tra*cra"ni*al, a.

Defn: Within the cranium or skull. Sir W. Hamilton.

INTRACTABILITY
In*tract`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being intractable; intractableness. Bp. Hurd.

INTRACTABLE
In*tract"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. intractabilis: cf. F. intraitable,
formerly also intractable. See In- not, and Tractable.]

Defn: Not tractable; not easily governed, managed, or directed;
indisposed to be taught, disciplined, or tamed; violent; stubborn;
obstinate; refractory; as, an intractable child.

Syn.
 -- Stubborn; perverse; obstinate; refractory; cross; unmanageable;
unruly; headstrong; violent; ungovernable; unteachable.
 -- In*tract"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*tract"a*bly, adv.

INTRACTILE
In*tract"ile, a.

Defn: Not tractile; incapable of being drawn out or extended. Bacon.

INTRADOS
In*tra"dos, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. intra within + F. dos the back, L.
dorsum. Cf. Extrados.] (Arch.)

Defn: The interior curve of an arch; esp., the inner or lower curved
face of the whole body of voussoirs taken together. See Extrados.

INTRAFOLIACEOUS
In`tra*fo`li*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing immediately above, or in front of, a leaf; as,
intrafoliaceous stipules.

INTRAFUSION
In`tra*fu"sion, n. Etym: [Pref. intra- + L. fundere, fusum, to pour.]

Defn: The act of pouring into a vessel; specif. (Med.), the operation
of introducing a substance into a blood vessel; as, intrafusion of
blood.

INTRALOBULAR
In`tra*lob"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Within lobules; as, the intralobular branches of the hepatic
veins.

INTRAMARGINAL
In`tra*mar"gin*al, a.

Defn: Situated within the margin. Loudon.

INTRAMERCURIAL
In`tra*mer*cu"ri*al, a. (Astron.)

Defn: Between the planet Mercury and the sun; -- as, the hypothetical
Vulcan is intramercurial.

INTRAMOLECULAR
In`tra*mo*lec"u*lar, a. (Chem. & Physics)

Defn: Between molecules; situated, or acting, between the molecules
of bodies.

INTRAMUNDANE
In`tra*mun"dane, a.

Defn: Being within the material world; -- opposed to extramundane.

INTRAMURAL
In`tra*mu"ral, a.

1. Being within the walls, as of a city.

2. (Anat. & Med.)

Defn: Being within the substance of the walls of an organ; as,
intramural pregnancy.

INTRANQUILLITY
In`tran*quil"li*ty, n.

Defn: Unquietness; restlessness. Sir W. Temple.

INTRANSCALENT
In`trans*ca"lent, a.

Defn: Impervious to heat; adiathermic.

INTRANSGRESSIBLE
In`trans*gress"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. intragressibilis that can not be
crossed. See In- not, and Transgress.]

Defn: Incapable of being transgressed; not to be passes over or
crossed. Holland.

INTRANSIENT
In*trans"ient, a.

Defn: Not transient; remaining; permanent. Killingbeck.

INTRANSIGENT
In*trans"i*gent, a. Etym: [F. intransigeant (cf. Sp. intransigente);
pref. in- not + L. transigere to come to an agreement; trans across +
agere to lead, act.]

Defn: Refusing compromise; uncompromising; irreconcilable. Lond. Sat.
Rev.

INTRANSIGENTES
In`trans"i*gen*tes, n. pl. Etym: [Sp.] (Spanish Politics)

Defn: The extreme radicals; the party of the irreconcilables.

INTRANSITIVE
In*tran"si*tive, a. Etym: [L. intransitivus: cf. F. intransitif. See
In- not, and Transitive.]

1. Not passing farther; kept; detained. [R.]
And then it is for the image's sake and so far is intransitive; but
whatever is paid more to the image is transitive and passes further.
Jer. Taylor.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Not transitive; not passing over tas, an intransitive verb, e.
g., the bird flies; the dog runs.

Note: Intransitive verbs have no passive form. Some verbs which
appear at first sight to be intransitive are in reality, or were
originally, transitive verbs with a reflexive or other object
omitted; as, he keeps (i. e., himself) aloof from danger.
Intransitive verbs may take a noun of kindred signification for a
cognate object; as, he died the death of a hero; he dreamed a dream.
Some intransitive verbs, by the addition of a preposition, become
transitive, and so admit of a passive voice; as, the man laughed at;
he was laughed at by the man.

INTRANSITIVELY
In*tran"si*tive*ly, adv. (Gram.)

Defn: Without an object following; in the manner of an intransitive
verb.

IN TRANSITU
In` tran"si*tu. Etym: [L.] (Law)

Defn: In transit; during passage; as, goods in transitu.

INTRANSMISSIBLE
In`trans*mis"si*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of being transmitted.

INTRANSMUTABILITY
In`trans*mu`ta*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being intransmutable.

INTRANSMUTABLE
In`trans*mut"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of being transmuted or changed into another
substance.

INTRANT
In"trant, a. Etym: [L. intrans, p. pr. of intrare to enter. See
Enter.]

Defn: Entering; penetrating.

INTRANT
In"trant, n.

Defn: One who enters; especially, a person entering upon some office
or station. Hume.

INTRANUCLEAR
In`tra*nu"cle*ar, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Within the nucleus of a cell; as. the intranuclear network of
fibrils, seen in the first stages of karyokinesis.

INTRAP
In*trap", v. t.

Defn: See Entrap. Spenser.

INTRAPARIETAL
In"tra*pa*ri"e*tal, a.

Defn: Situated or occurring within an inclosure; shut off from public
sight; private; secluded; retired.
I have no Turkish proclivities, and I do not think that, after all,
impaling is preferable as a mode of capital punishment to
intraparietal hanging. Roll

INTRAPETIOLAR
In`tra*pet"i*o*lar, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Situated between the petiole and the stem; -- said of the pair
of stipules at the base of a petiole when united by those margins
next the petiole, thus seeming to form a single stipule between the
petiole and the stem or branch; -- often confounded with
interpetiolar, from which it differs essentially in meaning.

INTRATERRITORIAL
In`tra*ter`ri*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Within the territory or a territory.

INTRATHORACIC
In`tra*tho*rac"ic, a.

Defn: Within the thora

INTRATROPICAL
In`tra*trop"ic*al, a.

Defn: Within the tropics.

INTRAUTERINE
In`tra*u"ter*ine, a.

Defn: Within the uterus or womb; as, intrauterine hemorrhage.

INTRAVALVULAR
In`tra*valv"u*lar, a.

Defn: Between valves.

INTRAVENOUS
In`tra*ve"nous, a.

Defn: Within the veins.

INTRAVENTRICULAR
In`tra*ven*tric"u*lar, a.

Defn: Within or between ventricles.

INTREASURE
In*treas"ure, v. t.

Defn: To lay up, as in a treasury; to hoard. [Obs.] Shak.

INTREAT
In*treat", v. t.

Defn: See Entreat. Spenser.

INTREATABLE
In*treat"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + treatable.]

Defn: Not to be entreated; inexorable.

INTREATANCE
In*treat"ance, n.

Defn: Entreaty. [Obs.] Holland.

INTREATFUL
In*treat"ful, a.

Defn: Full of entreaty. [Obs.] Spenser.

INTRENCH
In*trench", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intrenched; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intrenching.]

1. To cut in; to furrow; to make trenches in or upon.
It was this very sword intrenched it. Shak.
His face Deep scars of thunder had intrenched. Milton.

2. To surround with a trench or with intrenchments, as in
fortification; to fortify with a ditch and parapet; as, the army
intrenched their camp, or intrenched itself. "In the suburbs close
intrenched." Shak.

INTRENCH
In*trench", v. i.

Defn: To invade; to encroach; to infringe or trespass; to enter on,
and take possession of, that which belongs to another; -- usually
followed by on or upon; as, the king was charged with intrenching on
the rights of the nobles, and the nobles were accused of intrenching
on the prerogative of the crown.
We are not to intrench upon truth in any conversation, but least of
all with children. Locke.

INTRENCHANT
In*trench"ant, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + trenchant.]

Defn: Not to be gashed or marked with furrows. [Obs.]
As easy mayest thou the intrenchant air With thy keen sword impress,
as make me bleed. Shak.

INTRENCHMENT
In*trench"ment, n. Etym: [From Intrench.]

1. The act of intrenching or the state of being intrenched.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: Any defensive work consisting of at least a trench or ditch and
a parapet made from the earth thrown up in making such a ditch.
On our side, we have thrown up intrenchments on Winter and Prospect
Hills. Washington.

3. Any defense or protection.

4. An encroachment or infringement.
The slight intrenchment upon individual freedom. Southey.

INTREPID
In*trep"id, a. Etym: [L. intrepidus: cf. F. intrépide. See In- not,
and Trepidation.]

Defn: Not trembling or shaking with fear; fearless; bold; brave;
undaunted; courageous; as, an intrepid soldier; intrepid spirit.

Syn.
 -- Fearless; dauntless; resolute; brave; courageous; daring;
valiant; heroic; doughty.

INTREPIDITY
In`tre*pid"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intrépidité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being intrepid; fearless bravery;
courage; resoluteness; valor.
Sir Roger had acquitted himself of two or three sentences with a look
of much business and great intrepidity. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Courage; heroism; bravery; fortitude; gallantry; valor. See
Courage, Heroism.

INTREPIDLY
In*trep"id*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intrepid manner; courageously; resolutely.

INTRICABLE
In"tri*ca*ble, a. Etym: [See Intricate.]

Defn: Entangling. [Obs.] Shelton.

INTRICACY
In"tri*ca*cy, n.; pl. Intricacies. Etym: [From Intricate.]

Defn: The state or quality of being intricate or entangled;
perplexity; involution; complication; complexity; that which is
intricate or involved; as, the intricacy of a knot; the intricacy of
accounts; the intricacy of a cause in controversy; the intricacy of a
plot.
Freed from intricacies, taught to live The easiest way. Milton.

INTRICATE
In"tri*cate, a. Etym: [L. intricatus, p. p. of intricare to entangle,
perplex. Cf. Intrigue, Extricate.]

Defn: Entangled; involved; perplexed; complicated; difficult to
understand, follow, arrange, or adjust; as, intricate machinery,
labyrinths, accounts, plots, etc.
His style was fit to convey the most intricate business to the
understanding with the utmost clearness. Addison.
The nature of man is intricate. Burke.

Syn.
 -- Intricate, Complex, Complicated. A thing is complex when it is
made up of parts; it is complicated when those parts are so many, or
so arranged, as to make it difficult to grasp them; it is intricate
when it has numerous windings and confused involutions which it is
hard to follow out. What is complex must be resolved into its parts;
what is complicated must be drawn out and developed; what is
intricate must be unraveled.

INTRICATE
In"tri*cate, v. t.

Defn: To entangle; to involve; to make perplexing. [Obs.]
It makes men troublesome, and intricates all wise discourses. Jer.
Taylor.

INTRICATELY
In"tri*cate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intricate manner.

INTRICATENESS
In"tri*cate*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being intricate; intricacy.

INTRICATION
In`tri*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Entanglement. [Obs.]

INTRIGANTE
In`tri`gante", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A female intriguer.

INTRIGUE
In*trigue", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Intrigued; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intriguing.] Etym: [F. intriguer, OF. intriquer, entriquer; cf. It.
intrigare. See Intricate, Extricate.]

1. To form a plot or scheme; to contrive to accomplish a purpose by
secret artifice.

2. To carry on a secret and illicit love or amour.

INTRIGUE
In*trigue", v. t.

Defn: To fill with artifice and duplicity; to complicate; to
embarrass. [Obs.]
How doth it [sin] perplex and intrique the whole course of your
lives! Dr. J. Scott.

INTRIGUE
In*trigue", n. Etym: [Cf. F. intrique. See Intrigue, v. i.]

1. Intricacy; complication. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

2. A complicated plot or scheme intended to effect some purpose by
secret artifice; conspiracy; stratagem.
Busy meddlers with intrigues of state. Pomfret.

3. The plot or romance; a complicated scheme of designs, actions, and
events. Pope.

4. A secret and illicit love affair between two persons of different
sexes; an amour; a liaison.
The hero of a comedy is represented victorious in all his intrigues.
Swift.

Syn.
 -- Plot; scheme; conspiracy; machination.

INTRIGUER
In*trigu"er, n.

Defn: One who intrigues.

INTRIGUERY
In*trigu"er*y, n.

Defn: Arts or practice of intrigue.

INTRIGUINGLY
In*trigu"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By means of, or in the manner of, intrigue.

INTRINSE
In*trinse", a. Etym: [See Intrinsic, and Intense.]

Defn: Tightly drawn; or (perhaps) intricate. [Very rare]
Like rats, oft bite the holy cords atwain, Which are too intrinse to
unloose. Shak.

INTRINSIC
In*trin"sic, a. Etym: [L. intrinsecus inward, on the inside; intra
within + secus otherwise, beside; akin to E. second: cf. F.
intrinsèque. See Inter-, Second, and cf. Extrinsic.]

1. Inward; internal; hence, true; genuine; real; essential; inherent;
not merely apparent or accidental; -- opposed to extrinsic; as, the
intrinsic value of gold or silver; the intrinsic merit of an action;
the intrinsic worth or goodness of a person.
He was better qualified than they to estimate justly the intrinsic
value of Grecian philosophy and refinement. I. Taylor.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Included wholly within an organ or limb, as certain groups of
muscles; -- opposed to extrinsic. Intrinsic energy of a body
(Physics), the work it can do in virtue of its actual condition,
without any supply of energy from without.
 -- Intrinsic equation of a curve (Geom.), the equation which
expresses the relation which the length of a curve, measured from a
given point of it, to a movable point, has to the angle which the
tangent to the curve at the movable point makes with a fixed line.
 -- Intrinsic value. See the Note under Value, n.

Syn.
 -- Inherent; innate; natural; real; genuine.

INTRINSIC
In*trin"sic, n.

Defn: A genuine quality. [Obs.] Warburton.

INTRINSICAL
In*trin"sic*al, a. [Formerly written intrinsecal.]

1. Intrinsic.

2. Intimate; closely familiar. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

INTRINSICALITY
In*trin`si*cal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of

INTRINSICALLY
In*trin"sic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Internally;
A lie is a thing absolutely and intrinsically evil. South.

INTRINSICALNESS
In*trin"sic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being intrinsical; intrinsicality.

INTRINSICATE
In*trin"si*cate, a.

Defn: Intricate. [Obs.] Shak.

INTRO-
In"tro-. Etym: [L. intro, adv., inwardly, within. See Inter-.]

Defn: A prefix signifying within, into, in, inward; as, introduce,
introreception, introthoracic.

INTROCESSION
In`tro*ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. introcedere, introcessum, to go in;
intro within + cedere to go.] (Med.)

Defn: A depression, or inward sinking of parts.

INTRODUCE
In`tro*duce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Introduced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Introducing.] Etym: [L. introducere, introductum; intro within +
ducere to lead. See Intro-, and Duke.]

1. To lead or bring in; to conduct or usher in; as, to introduce a
person into a drawing-room.

2. To put (something into a place); to insert; as, to introduce the
finger, or a probe.

3. To lead to and make known by formal announcement or
recommendation; hence, to cause to be acquainted; as, to introduce
strangers; to introduce one person to another.

4. To bring into notice, practice, cultivation, or use; as, to
introduce a new fashion, method, or plant.

5. To produce; to cause to exist; to induce. [Obs.]
Whosoever introduces habits in children, deserves the care and
attention of their governors. Locke.

6. To open to notice; to begin; to present; as, he introduced the
subject with a long preface.

Syn.
 -- To bring in; usher in; insert; begin; preface.

INTRODUCEMENT
In`tro*duce"ment, n.

Defn: Introduction. [Obs.]

INTRODUCER
In`tro*du"cer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, introduces.

INTRODUCT
In`tro*duct", v. t.

Defn: To introduce. [Obs.]

INTRODUCTION
In`tro*duc"tion, n. Etym: [L. introductio: cf. F. introduction. See
Introduce.]

1. The act of introducing, or bringing to notice.

2. The act of formally making persons known to each other; a
presentation or making known of one person to another by name; as,
the introduction of one stranger to another.

3. That part of a book or discourse which introduces or leads the way
to the main subject, or part; preliminary; matter; preface; proem;
exordium.

4. A formal and elaborate preliminary treatise; specifically, a
treatise introductory to other treatises, or to a course of study; a
guide; as, an introduction to English literature.

INTRODUCTIVE
In`tro*duc"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. introductif.]

Defn: Serving to introduce; introductory.
 -- In`tro*duc"tive*ly, adv.

INTRODUCTOR
In`tro*duc"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: An introducer. [Obs.]

INTRODUCTORILY
In`tro*duc"to*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of introduction.

INTRODUCTORY
In`tro*duc"to*ry, a. Etym: [L. itroductorius: cf. F. introductoire.]

Defn: Serving to introduce something else; leading to the main
subject or business; preliminary; prefatory; as, introductory
proceedings; an introductory discourse.

INTRODUCTRESS
In`tro*duc"tress, n.

Defn: A female introducer.

INTROFLEXED
In`tro*flexed", a.

Defn: Flexed or bent inward.

INTROGRESSION
In`tro*gres"sion, n. Etym: [L. introgressus, p. p. of introgredi to
go in; intro- within + gradi to step, go.]

Defn: The act of going in; entrance. Blount.

INTROIT
In*tro"it, n. Etym: [L. introitus, fr. introire to go into, to enter;
intro within + ire to go: cf. F. introit.]

1. A going in. Caxton.

2. (R. C. Ch.)
(a) A psalm sung or chanted immediately before the collect, epistle,
and gospel, and while the priest is entering within the rails of the
altar.
(b) A part of a psalm or other portion of Scripture read by the
priest at Mass immediately after ascending to the altar.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: An anthem or psalm sung before the Communion service.

4. Any composition of vocal music appropriate to the opening of
church services.

INTROMISSION
In`tro*mis"sion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intromission. See Intromit.]

1. The act of sending in or of putting in; insertion. South.

2. The act of letting go in; admission.

3. (Scots Law)

Defn: An intermeddling with the affairs of another, either on legal
grounds or without authority.

INTROMIT
In`tro*mit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intromitted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intromitting.] Etym: [L. intromittere, intromissum; intro- within +
mittere to send.]

1. To send in or put in; to insert or introduce. Greenhill.

2. To allow to pass in; to admit.
Glass in the window intromits light, without cold. Holder.

INTROMIT
In`tro*mit", v. i. (Scots Law)

Defn: To intermeddle with the effects or goods of another.

INTROMITTENT
In`tro*mit"tent, a. Etym: [L. intromittens, p. pr.]

1. Throwing, or allowing to pass, into or within.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Used in copulation; -- said of the external reproductive organs
of the males of many animals, and sometimes of those of the females.

INTROMITTER
In`tro*mit"ter, n.

Defn: One who intromits.

INTROPRESSION
In`tro*pres"sion, n.

Defn: Pressure acting within. [R.]

INTRORECEPTION
In`tro*re*cep"tion, n.

Defn: The act of admitting into or within. Hammond.

INTRORSE
In*trorse", a. Etym: [L. introrsus inward, contr. from introversus.
See Introvert.] (Bot.)

Defn: Turning or facing inward, or toward the axis of the part to
which it belongs. Gray.

INTROSPECT
In`tro*spect", v. t. Etym: [L. introspectus, p. p. introspicere to
look into; intro within + specere to look. See Spy.]

Defn: To look into or within; to view the inside of. Bailey.

INTROSPECTION
In`tro*spec"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. introspection.]

Defn: A view of the inside or interior; a looking inward;
specifically, the act or process of self-examination, or inspection
of one's own thoughts and feelings; the cognition which the mind has
of its own acts and states; self-consciousness; reflection.
I was forced to make an introspection into my own mind. Dryden.

INTROSPECTIONIST
In`tro*spec"tion*ist, n. (Metaph.)

Defn: One given to the introspective method of examining the
phenomena of the soul.

INTROSPECTIVE
In`tro*spec"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. introspectif.]

1. Inspecting within; seeing inwardly; capable of, or exercising,
inspection; self-conscious.

2. Involving the act or results of conscious knowledge of physical
phenomena; -- contrasted with associational. J. S. Mill.

INTROSUME
In`tro*sume", v. t. Etym: [Pref. intro- + L. sumere to take.]

Defn: To draw in; to swallow. [Obs.] Evelyn.

INTROSUSCEPTION
In`tro*sus*cep"tion, n.

1. The act or process of receiving within.
The person is corrupted by the introsusception of a nature which
becomes evil thereby. Coleridge.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Intussusception.

INTROVENIENT
In`tro*ven"ient, a. Etym: [L. introveniens, p. pr. of introvenire to
come in; intro within + venire to come.]

Defn: Coming in together; entering; commingling. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

INTROVERSION
In`tro*ver"sion, n. Etym: [See Introvert.]

Defn: The act of introverting, or the state of being introverted; the
act of turning the mind inward. Berkeley.

INTROVERT
In`tro*vert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Introverted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Introverting.] Etym: [Pref. intro- + L. vertere, versum, to turn.]

1. To turn or bend inward. "Introverted toes." Cowper.

2. To look within; to introspect. Lew Wallace.

INTRUDE
In*trude", v. i. Etym: [L. intrudere, intrusum; pref. in- in +
trudere to thrust, akin to E. threat. See Threat.]

Defn: To thrust one's self in; to come or go in without invitation,
permission, or welcome; to encroach; to trespass; as, to intrude on
families at unseasonable hours; to intrude on the lands of another.
Thy wit wants edge And manners, to intrude where I am graced. Shak.
Some thoughts rise and intrude upon us, while we shun them; others
fly from us, when we would hold them. I. Watts.

INTRUDE
In*trude", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intruded; p. pr. & vb. n. Intruding.]

1. To thrust or force (something) in or upon; especially, to force
(one's self) in without leave or welcome; as, to intrude one's
presence into a conference; to intrude one's opinions upon another.

2. To enter by force; to invade. [Obs.]
Why should the worm intrude the maiden bud Shak.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: The cause to enter or force a way, as into the crevices of
rocks.

Syn.
 -- To obtrude; encroach; infringe; intrench; trespass. See Obtrude.

INTRUDED
In*trud"ed, p. a. (Geol.)

Defn: Same as Intrusive.

INTRUDER
In*trud"er, n.

Defn: One who intrudes; one who thrusts himself in, or enters without
right, or without leave or welcome; a trespasser.
They were all strangers and intruders. Locke.

INTRUDRESS
In*trud"ress, n.

Defn: A female intruder.

INTRUNK
In*trunk", v. t.

Defn: To inclose as in a trunk; to incase. [R.] Ford.

INTRUSION
In*tru"sion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intrusion. See Intrude.]

1. The act of intruding, or of forcing in; especially, the forcing
(one's self) into a place without right or welcome; encroachment.
Why this intrusion Were not my orders that I should be private
Addison.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: The penetrating of one rock, while in a plastic or metal state,
into the cavities of another.

3. (Law)

Defn: The entry of a stranger, after a particular estate or freehold
is determined, before the person who holds in remainder or reversion
has taken possession.

4. (Scotch Ch.)

Defn: The settlement of a minister over 3 congregation without their
consent.

INTRUSIONAL
In*tru"sion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to intrusion.

INTRUSIONIST
In*tru"sion*ist, n.

Defn: One who intrudes; especially, one who favors the appointment of
a clergyman to a parish, by a patron, against the wishes of the
parishioners.

INTRUSIVE
In*tru"sive, a.

Defn: Apt to intrude; characterized by intrusion; entering without
right or welcome. Intrusive rocks (Geol.), rocks which have been
forced, while in a plastic or melted state, into the cavities or
between the cracks or layers of other rocks. The term is sometimes
used as equivalent to plutonic rocks. It is then contrasted with
effusive or volcanic rocks.
 -- In*tru"sive*ly, adv.
 -- In*tru"sive*ness, n.

INTRUST
In*trust", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intrusted, p. pr. & vb. n.
Intrusting.]

Defn: To deliver (something) to another in trust; to deliver to
(another) something in trust; to commit or surrender (something) to
another with a certain confidence regarding his care, use, or
disposal of it; as, to intrust a servant with one's money or intrust
money or goods to a servant.

Syn.
 -- To commit; consign; confide. See Commit.

INTUBATION
In`tu*ba"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- in + tube.] (Med.)

Defn: The introduction of a tube into an organ to keep it open, as
into the larynx in croup.

INTUITION
In`tu*i"tion, n. Etym: [L. intuitus, p. p. of intueri to look on; in-
in, on + tueri: cf. F. intuition. See Tuition.]

1. A looking after; a regard to. [Obs.]
What, no reflection on a reward! He might have an intuition at it, as
the encouragement, though not the cause, of his pains. Fuller.

2. Direct apprehension or cognition; immediate knowledge, as in
perception or consciousness; -- distinguished from "mediate"
knowledge, as in reasoning; as, the mind knows by intuition that
black is not white, that a circle is not a square, that three are
more than two, etc.; quick or ready insight or apprehension.
Sagacity and a nameless something more, -- let us call it intuition.
Hawthorne.

3. Any object or truth discerned by direct cognition; especially, a
first or primary truth.

INTUITIONAL
In`tu*i"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, intuition; characterized by
intuition; perceived by intuition; intuitive.

INTUITIONALISM
In`tu*i"tion*al*ism, n. (Metaph.)

Defn: The doctrine that the perception or recognition of primary
truth is intuitive, or direct and immediate; -- opposed to
sensationalism, and experientialism.

INTUITIONALIST
In`tu*i"tion*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who holds the doctrine of intuitionalism.

INTUITIONISM
In`tu*i"tion*ism, n.

Defn: Same as Intuitionalism.

INTUITIONIST
In`tu*i"tion*ist, n.

Defn: Same as Intuitionalist. Bain.

INTUITIVE
In*tu"i*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. intuitif.]

1. Seeing clearly; as, an intuitive view; intuitive vision.

2. Knowing, or perceiving, by intuition; capable of knowing without
deduction or reasoning.
Whence the soul Reason receives, and reason is her being, Discursive,
or intuitive. Milton.

3. Received. reached, obtained, or perceived, by intuition; as,
intuitive judgment or knowledge; -- opposed to deductive. Locke.

INTUITIVELY
In*tu"i*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intuitive manner.

INTUITIVISM
In*tu"i*tiv*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine that the ideas of right and wrong are intuitive.
J. Grote.

INTUMESCE
In`tu*mesce", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Intumesced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intumescing.] Etym: [L. intumescere; pref. in- in + tumescere to
swell up, incho. fr. tumere to swell. See Tumid.]

Defn: To enlarge or expand with heat; to swell; specifically, to
swell up or bubble up under the action of heat, as before the
blowpipe.
In a higher heat, it intumesces, and melts into a yellowish black
mass. Kirwan.

INTUMESCENCE
In`tu*mes"cence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intumescence.]

1. The act or process of swelling or enlarging; also, the state of
being swollen; expansion; tumidity; especially, the swelling up of
bodies under the action of heat.
The intumescence of nations. Johnson.

2. Anything swollen or enlarged, as a tumor.

INTUMESCENT
In`tu*mes"cent, a. Etym: [L. intumescens, p. pr.]

Defn: Swelling up; expanding.

INTUMULATED
In*tu"mu*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. intumulatus. See In- not, and
Tumulate.]

Defn: Unburied. [Obs.]

INTUNE
In*tune", v. t.

Defn: To intone. Cf. Entune.

INTURBIDATE
In*tur"bid*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inturbidated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inturbidating.] Etym: [Pref. in- in + turbid.]

Defn: To render turbid; to darken; to confuse. [R.]
The confusion of ideas and conceptions under the same term painfully
inturbidates his theology. Coleridge.

INTURGESCENCE
In`tur*ges"cence, n. Etym: [L. inturgescens, p. pr. of inturgescere
to swell up. See 1st In-, and Turgescent.]

Defn: A swelling; the act of swelling, or state of being swelled.
[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

INTUSE
In"tuse, n. Etym: [L. intundere to bruise; pref. in- in + tundere,
tusum, to beat, bruise.]

Defn: A bruise; a contusion. [Obs.] Spenser.

INTUSSUSCEPTED
In`tus*sus*cep"ted, a. Etym: [See Intussusception.]

Defn: Received into some other thing or part, as a sword into a
sheath; invaginated.

INTUSSUSCEPTION
In`tus*sus*cep"tion, n. Etym: [L. intus within + susception. Cf.
Introsusception.]

1. The reception of one part within another.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The abnormal reception or slipping of a part of a tube, by
inversion and descent, within a contiguous part of it; specifically,
the reception or slipping of the upper part of the small intestine
into the lower; introsusception; invagination. Dunglison.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The interposition of new particles of formative material among
those already existing, as in a cell wall, or in a starch grain.

4. (Physiol.)

Defn: The act of taking foreign matter, as food, into a living body;
the process of nutrition, by which dead matter is absorbed by the
living organism, and ultimately converted into the organized
substance of its various tissues and organs.
Dead bodies increase by apposition; living bodies by
intrussusception. McKendrick.

INTWINE
In*twine", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Entwine.]

Defn: To twine or twist into, or together; to wreathe; as, a wreath
of flowers intwined. [Written also entwine.]

INTWINE
In*twine", v. i.

Defn: To be or to become intwined.

INTWINEMENT
In*twine"ment, n.

Defn: The act of twinning, or the state of being intwined.

INTWIST
In*twist", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Entwist.]

Defn: To twist into or together; to interweave. [Written also
entwist.]

INUENDO
In`u*en"do, n.

Defn: See Innuendo.

INULIN
In"u*lin, n. Etym: [From NL. Inula Helenium, the elecampane: cf. F.
inuline.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance of very wide occurrence. It is found dissolved in
the sap of the roots and rhizomes of many composite and other plants,
as Inula, Helianthus, Campanula, etc., and is extracted by solution
as a tasteless, white, semicrystalline substance, resembling starch,
with which it is isomeric. It is intermediate in nature between
starch and sugar. Called also dahlin, helenin, alantin, etc.

INULOID
In"u*loid, n. Etym: [Inulin + -oid.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance resembling inulin, found in the unripe bulbs of the
dahila.

INUMBRATE
In*um"brate, v. t. Etym: [L. inumbratus, p. p. of inumbrare to
shade.]

Defn: To shade; to darken. [Obs.]

INUNCTED
In*unc"ted, a. Etym: [See Inunction.]

Defn: Anointed. [Obs.] Cockeram.

INUNCTION
In*unc"tion, n. Etym: [L. inunctio, fr. inungere, inunctum, to
anoint. See 1st In-, and Unction.]

Defn: The act of anointing, or the state of being anointed; unction;
specifically (Med.), the rubbing of ointments into the pores of the
skin, by which medicinal agents contained in them, such as mercury,
iodide of potash, etc., are absorbed.

INUNCTUOSITY
In*unc`tu*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: The want of unctuosity; freedom from greasiness or oiliness;
as, the inunctuosity of porcelain clay. Kirwan.

INUNDANT
In*un"dant, a. Etym: [L. inundans, p. pr. of inundare.]

Defn: Overflowing. [R.] Shenstone.

INUNDATE
In*un"date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inundated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inundating.] Etym: [L. inundatus, p. p. of inundare to inundate;
pref. in- in + undare to rise in waves, to overflow, fr. unda a wave.
See Undulate.]

1. To cover with a flood; to overflow; to deluge; to flood; as, the
river inundated the town.

2. To fill with an overflowing abundance or superfluity; as, the
country was inundated with bills of credit.

Syn.
 -- To overflow; deluge; flood; overwhelm; submerge; drown.

INUNDATION
In`un*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. inundatio: cf. F. inondation.]

1. The act of inundating, or the state of being inundated; an
overflow; a flood; a rising and spreading of water over grounds.
With inundation wide the deluge reigns, Drowns the deep valleys, and
o'erspreads the plains. Wilkie.

2. An overspreading of any kind; overflowing or superfluous
abundance; a flood; a great influx; as, an inundation of tourists.
To stop the inundation of her tears. Shak.

INUNDERSTANDING
In*un`der*stand"ing, a.

Defn: Void of understanding. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.

INURBANE
In`ur*bane", a. Etym: [L. inurbanus. See In- not, and Urbane.]

Defn: Uncivil; unpolished; rude. M. Arnold.
 -- In`ur*bane"ly, adv.
 -- In`ur*bane"ness, n.

INURBANITY
In`ur*ban"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inurbanité.]

Defn: Want of urbanity or courtesy; unpolished manners or deportment;
inurbaneness; rudeness. Bp. Hall.

INURE
In*ure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inured; p. pr. & vb. n. Inuring.] Etym:
[From pref. in- in + ure use, work. See Ure use, practice, Opera, and
cf. Manure.]

Defn: To apply in use; to train; to discipline; to use or accustom
till use gives little or no pain or inconvenience; to harden; to
habituate; to practice habitually. "To inure our prompt obedience."
Milton.
He . . . did inure them to speak little. Sir T. North.
Inured and exercised in learning. Robynson (More's Utopia).
The poor, inured to drudgery and distress. Cowper.

INURE
In*ure", v. i.

Defn: To pass into use; to take or have effect; to be applied; to
serve to the use or benefit of; as, a gift of lands inures to the
heirs. [Written also enure.]

INUREMENT
In*ure"ment, n.

Defn: Use; practice; discipline; habit; custom.

INURN
In*urn", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inurned; p. pr. & vb. n. Inurning.]

Defn: To put in an urn, as the ashes of the dead; hence, to bury; to
intomb.
The sepulcher Wherein we saw thee quietly inurned. Shak.

INUSITATE
In*u"si*tate, a. Etym: [L. inunsitatus unusual. See Use.]

Defn: Unusual. [R.] Bramhall.

INUSITATION
In*u"si*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Want of use; disuse. [R.] Paley.

INUST
In*ust", a. Etym: [L. inurere, inustum, to burn in; pref. in- in +
urere to burn.]

Defn: Burnt in. [Obs.]

INUSTION
In*us"tion, n.

Defn: The act of burning or branding. [Obs.] T. Adams.

INUTILE
In*u"tile, a. Etym: [L. inutilis: cf. F. inutile. See In- not,
Utile.]

Defn: Useless; unprofitable. [Obs.] Bacon.

INUTILITY
In`u*til"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. inutilitas: cf. F. inutilité.]

Defn: Uselessness; the quality of being unprofitable;
unprofitableness; as, the inutility of vain speculations and
visionary projects.

INUTTERABLE
In*ut"ter*a*ble, a.

Defn: Unutterable; inexpressible. Milton.

IN VACUO
In` vac"u*o. Etym: [L.] (Physics)

Defn: In a vacuum; in empty space; as, experiments in vacuo.

INVADE
In*vade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Invaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Invading.]
Etym: [L. invadere, invasum; pref. in- in + vadere to go, akin to E.
wade: cf. OF. invader, F. envahir. See Wade.]

1. To go into or upon; to pass within the confines of; to enter; --
used of forcible or rude ingress. [Obs.]
Which becomes a body, and doth then invade The state of life, out of
the grisly shade. Spenser.

2. To enter with hostile intentions; to enter with a view to conquest
or plunder; to make an irruption into; to attack; as, the Romans
invaded Great Britain.
Such an enemy Is risen to invade us. Milton.

3. To attack; to infringe; to encroach on; to violate; as, the king
invaded the rights of the people.

4. To grow or spread over; to affect injuriously and progressively;
as, gangrene invades healthy tissue.

Syn.
 -- To attack; assail; encroach upon. See Attack.

INVADE
In*vade", v. i.

Defn: To make an invasion. Brougham.

INVADER
In*vad"er, n.

Defn: One who invades; an assailant; an encroacher; an intruder.

INVAGINATE
In*vag"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To insert as in a sheath; to pr

INVAGINATE; INVAGINATED
In*vag"i*nate, In*vag"i*na`ted, a. (Biol.)
(a) Sheathed.
(b) Having one portion of a hollow organ drawn back within another
portion.

INVAGINATION
In*vag`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. pref. in- + vagina sheath.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: The condition of an invaginated organ or part.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: One of the methods by which the various germinal layers of the
ovum are differentiated.

Note: In embolic invagination, one half of the blastosphere is pushed
in towards the other half, producing an embryonic form known as a
gastrula.
 -- In epibolic invagination, a phenomenon in the development of some
invertebrate ova, the epiblast appears to grow over or around the
hypoblast.

INVALESCENCE
In`va*les"cence, n. Etym: [L. invalescens, p. pr. of invalescere to
become strong. See 1st In-, and Convalesce.]

Defn: Strength; health. [Obs.]

INVALETUDINARY
In*val`e*tu"di*na*ry, a.

Defn: Wanting health; valetudinary. [R.]

INVALID
In*val"id, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + valid: cf. F. invalide, L.
invalidus infirm, weak. Cf. Invalid infirm.]

1. Of no force, weight, or cogency; not valid; weak.

2. (Law)

Defn: Having no force, effect, or efficacy; void; null; as, an
invalid contract or agreement.

INVALID
In"va*lid, n. Etym: [F. invalide, n. & a., L. invalidus, a. See
Invalid null.]

Defn: A person who is weak and infirm; one who is disabled for active
service; especially, one in chronic ill health.

INVALID
In"va*lid, a. Etym: [See Invalid, n.]

Defn: Not well; feeble; infirm; sickly; as, he had an invalid
daughter.

INVALID
In"va*lid, v. t.

1. To make or render invalid or infirm. "Invalided, bent, and almost
blind." Dickens.

2. To classify or enroll as an invalid.
Peace coming, he was invalided on half pay. Carlyle.

INVALIDATE
In*val"i*date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Invalidated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Invalidating.] Etym: [From Invalid null.]

Defn: To render invalid; to weaken or lessen the force of; to destroy
the authority of; to render of no force or effect; to overthrow; as,
to invalidate an agreement or argument.

INVALIDATION
In*val`i*da"tion, n.

Defn: The act of inavlidating, or the state of being invalidated.
So many invalidations of their right. Burke.

INVALIDE
In`va*lide", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Invalid, n.

INVALIDISM
In"va*lid*ism, n.

Defn: The condition of an invalid; sickness; infirmity.

INVALIDITY
In`va*lid"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. invalidité, LL. invaliditas want of
health.]

1. Want of validity or cogency; want of legal force or efficacy;
invalidness; as, the invalidity of an agreement or of a will.

2. Want of health; infirmity. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple.

INVALIDNESS
In*val"id*ness, n.

Defn: Invalidity; as, the invalidness of reasoning.

INVALOROUS
In*val"or*ous, a.

Defn: Not valorous; cowardly.

INVALUABLE
In*val"u*a*ble, a.

Defn: Valuable beyond estimation; inestimable; priceless; precious.

INVALUABLY
In*val"u*a*bly, adv.

Defn: Inestimably. Bp. Hall.

INVALUED
In*val"ued, a.

Defn: Inestimable. [R.] Drayton.

INVARIABILITY
In*va`ri*a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. invariabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being invariable; invariableness; constancy;
uniformity.

INVARIABLE
In*va"ri*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + variable: cf. F.
invariable.]

Defn: Not given to variation or change; unalterable; unchangeable;
always uniform.
Physical laws which are invariable. I. Taylor.
-- In*va"ri*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*va"ri*a*bly, adv.

INVARIABLE
In*va"ri*a*ble, n. (Math.)

Defn: An invariable quantity; a constant.

INVARIANCE
In*va"ri*ance, n. (Math.)

Defn: The property of remaining invariable under prescribed or
implied conditions. J. J. Sylvester.

INVARIANT
In*va"ri*ant, n. (Math.)

Defn: An invariable quantity; specifically, a function of the
coefficients of one or more forms, which remains unaltered, when
these undergo suitable linear transformations. J. J. Sylvester.

INVASION
In*va"sion, n. Etym: [L. invasio: cf. F. invasion. See Invade.]

1. The act of invading; the act of encroaching upon the rights or
possessions of another; encroachment; trespass.

2. A warlike or hostile entrance into the possessions or domains of
another; the incursion of an army for conquest or plunder.

3. The incoming or first attack of anything hurtful or pernicious;
as, the invasion of a disease.

Syn.
 -- Invasion, Irruption, Inroad. Invasion is the generic term,
denoting a forcible entrance into a foreign country. Incursion
signifies a hasty and sudden invasion. Irruption denotes particularly
violent invasion. Inroad is entry by some unusual way involving
trespass and injury.

INVASIVE
In*va"sive, a. Etym: [LL. invasivus: cf. F. invasif. See Invade.]

Defn: Tending to invade; characterized by invasion; aggressive.
"Invasive war." Hoole.

INVECT
In*vect", v. i.

Defn: To inveigh. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

INVECTED
In*vec"ted, a. Etym: [L. invectus carried in. See Inveigh.] (Her.)

Defn: Having a border or outline composed of semicircles with the
convexity outward; -- the opposite of engrailed.

INVECTION
In*vec"tion, n. Etym: [L. invectio. See Inveigh.]

Defn: An inveighing against; invective. [Obs.] Fulke.

INVECTIVE
In*vec"tive, a. Etym: [L. invectivus: cf. F. invectif. See Inveigh.]

Defn: Characterized by invection; critical; denunciatory; satirical;
abusive; railing.

INVECTIVE
In*vec"tive, n. Etym: [F. invective.]

Defn: An expression which inveighs or rails against a person; a
severe or violent censure or reproach; something uttered or written,
intended to cast opprobrium, censure, or reproach on another; a harsh
or reproachful accusation; -- followed by against, having reference
to the person or thing affected; as an invective against tyranny.
The world will be able to judge of his [Junius'] motives for writing
such famous invectives. Sir W. Draper.

Syn.
 -- Abuse; censure; reproach; satire; sarcasm; railing; diatribe. See
Abuse.

INVECTIVELY
In*vec"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an invective manner. Shak.

INVEIGH
In*veigh", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Inveighed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inveighing.] Etym: [L. invehere, invectum, to carry or bring into or
against, to attack with words, to inveigh; pref. in- in + vehere to
carry. See Vehicle, and cf. Invective.]

Defn: To declaim or rail (against some person or thing); to utter
censorious and bitter language; to attack with harsh criticism or
reproach, either spoken or written; to use invectives; -- with
against; as, to inveigh against character, conduct, manners, customs,
morals, a law, an abuse.
All men inveighed against him; all men, except court vassals, opposed
him. Milton.
The artificial life against which we inveighed. Hawthorne.

INVEIGHER
In*veigh"er, n.

Defn: One who inveighs.

INVEIGLE
In*vei"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inveigled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inveigling.] Etym: [Prob. fr. F. aveugler to blind, to delude, OF.
aveugler, avugler, avegler, fr. F. aveugle blind, OF. aveugle,
avugle, properly, without eyes, fr. L. ab + oculus eye. The pref. in-
seems to have been substituted for a- taken as the pref. F. à, L. ad.
See Ocular.]

Defn: To lead astray as if blind; to persuade to something evil by
deceptive arts or flattery; to entice; to insnare; to seduce; to
wheedle.
Yet have they many baits and guileful spells To inveigle and invite
the un unwary sense. Milton.

INVEIGLEMENT
In*vei"gle*ment, n.

Defn: The act of inveigling, or the state of being inveigled; that
which inveigles; enticement; seduction. South.

INVEIGLER
In*vei"gler, n.

Defn: One who inveigles.

INVEIL
In*veil", v. t.

Defn: To cover, as with a vail. W. Browne.

INVENDIBILITY
In*vend`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being invendible; invendibleness; unsalableness.

INVENDIBLE
In*vend"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. invendibilis. See In- not, and Vendible.]

Defn: Not vendible or salable. Jefferson.
 -- In*vend"i*ble*ness, n.

INVENOM
In*ven"om, v. t.

Defn: See Envenom.

INVENT
In*vent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Invented; p. pr. & vb. n. Inventing.]
Etym: [L. inventus, p. p. of invenire to come upon, to find, invent;
pref. in- in + venire to come, akin to E. come: cf. F. inventer. See
Come.]

1. To come or light upon; to meet; to find. [Obs.]
And vowed never to return again, Till him alive or dead she did
invent. Spenser.

2. To discover, as by study or inquiry; to find out; to devise; to
contrive or produce for the first time; -- applied commonly to the
discovery of some serviceable mode, instrument, or machine.
Thus first Necessity invented stools. Cowper.

3. To frame by the imagination; to fabricate mentally; to forge; --
in a good or a bad sense; as, to invent the machinery of a poem; to
invent a falsehood.
Whate'er his cruel malice could invent. Milton.
He had invented some circumstances, and put the worst possible
construction on others. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- To discover; contrive; devise; frame; design; fabricate; concoct;
elaborate. See Discover.

INVENTER
In*vent"er, n.

Defn: One who invents.

INVENTFUL
In*vent"ful, a.

Defn: Full of invention. J. Gifford.

INVENTIBLE
In*vent"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being invented.

INVENTIBLENESS
In*vent"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being inventible.

INVENTION
In*ven"tion, n. Etym: [L. inventio: cf. F. invention. See Invent.]

1. The act of finding out or inventing; contrivance or construction
of that which has not before existed; as, the invention of
logarithms; the invention of the art of printing.

As the search of it [truth] is the duty, so the invention will be the
happiness of man. Tatham.

2. That which is invented; an original contrivance or construction; a
device; as, this fable was the invention of Esop; that falsehood was
her own invention.
We entered by the drawbridge, which has an invention to let one fall
if not premonished. Evelyn.

3. Thought; idea. Shak.

4. A fabrication to deceive; a fiction; a forgery; a falsehood.
Filling their hearers With strange invention. Shak.

5. The faculty of inventing; imaginative faculty; skill or ingenuity
in contriving anything new; as, a man of invention.
They lay no less than a want of invention to his charge; a capital
crime, . . . for a poet is a maker. Dryden.

6. (Fine Arts, Rhet., etc.)

Defn: The exercise of the imagination in selecting and treating a
theme, or more commonly in contriving the arrangement of a piece, or
the method of presenting its parts. Invention of the cross (Eccl.), a
festival celebrated May 3d, in honor of the finding of our Savior's
cross by St. Helena.

INVENTIOUS
In*ven"tious, a.

Defn: Inventive. [Obs.]

INVENTIVE
In*vent"ive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. inventif.]

Defn: Able and apt to invent; quick at contrivance; ready at
expedients; as, an inventive head or genius. Dryden.
 -- In*vent"ive*ly, adv.
 -- In*vent"ive*ness, n.

INVENTOR
In*vent"or, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. inventeur.]

Defn: One who invents or finds out something new; a contriver;
especially, one who invents mechanical devices.

INVENTORIAL
In`ven*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an inventory.
 -- In`ven*to"ri*al*ly, adv. Shak.

INVENTORY
In"ven*to*ry, n.; pl. Inventories. Etym: [L. inventarium: cf. LL.
inventorium, F. inventaire, OF. also inventoire. See Invent.]

Defn: An account, catalogue, or schedule, made by an executor or
administrator, of all the goods and chattels, and sometimes of the
real estate, of a deceased person; a list of the property of which a
person or estate is found to be possessed; hence, an itemized list of
goods or valuables, with their estimated worth; specifically, the
annual account of stock taken in any business.
There take an inventory of all I have. Shak.

Syn.
 -- List; register; schedule; catalogue. See List.

INVENTORY
In"ven*to*ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inventoried; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inventorying.] Etym: [Cf. F. inventorier.]

Defn: To make an inventory of; to make a list, catalogue, or schedule
of; to insert or register in an account of goods; as, a merchant
inventories his stock.
I will give out divers schedules of my beauty; it shall be
inventoried, and every particle and utensil labeled. Shak.

INVENTRESS
In*vent"ress, n. Etym: [Cf. L. inventrix, F. inventrice.]

Defn: A woman who invents. Dryden.

INVERACITY
In`ve*rac"i*ty, n.

Defn: Want of veracity.

INVERISIMILITUDE
In*ver`i*si*mil"i*tude, n.

Defn: Want of verisimilitude or likelihood; improbability.

INVERNESS; INVERNESS CAPE
In`ver*ness", n., or In`ver*ness" cape".

Defn: A kind of full sleeveless cape, fitting closely about the neck.

Robert's wind-blown head and tall form wrapped in an Inverness cape.
Mrs. Humphry Ward.

INVERSE
In*verse", a. Etym: [L. inversus, p. p. of invertere: cf. F. inverse.
See Invert.]

1. Opposite in order, relation, or effect; reversed; inverted;
reciprocal; -- opposed to direct.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Inverted; having a position or mode of attachment the reverse
of that which is usual.

3. (Math.)

Defn: Opposite in nature and effect; -- said with reference to any
two operations, which, when both are performed in succession upon any
quantity, reproduce that quantity; as, multiplication is the inverse
operation to division. The symbol of an inverse operation is the
symbol of the direct operation with -1 as an index. Thus sin-1 x
means the arc whose sine is x. Inverse figures (Geom.), two figures,
such that each point of either figure is inverse to a corresponding
point in the order figure.
 -- Inverse points (Geom.), two points lying on a line drawn from the
center of a fixed circle or sphere, and so related that the product
of their distances from the center of the circle or sphere is equal
to the square of the radius.
 -- Inverse, or Reciprocal, ratio (Math.), the ratio of the
reciprocals of two quantities.
 -- Inverse, or Reciprocal, proportion, an equality between a direct
ratio and a reciprocal ratio; thus, 4 : 2 : : , or 4 : 2 : : 3 : 6,
inversely.

INVERSE
In"verse, n.

Defn: That which is inverse.
Thus the course of human study is the inverse of the course of things
in nature. Tatham.

INVERSELY
In*verse"ly, adv.

Defn: In an inverse order or manner; by inversion; -- opposed to
directly. Inversely proportional. See Directly proportional, under
Directly, and Inversion, 4.

INVERSION
In*ver"sion, n. Etym: [L. inversio: cf. F. inversion. See Invert.]

1. The act of inverting, or turning over or backward, or the state of
being inverted.

2. A change by inverted order; a reversed position or arrangement of
things; transposition.
It is just the inversion of an act of Parliament; your lordship first
signed it, and then it was passed among the Lords and Commons.
Dryden.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: A movement in tactics by which the order of companies in line
is inverted, the right being on the left, the left on the right, and
so on.

4. (Math.)

Defn: A change in the order of the terms of a proportion, so that the
second takes the place of the first, and the fourth of the third.

5. (Geom.)

Defn: A peculiar method of transformation, in which a figure is
replaced by its inverse figure. Propositions that are true for the
original figure thus furnish new propositions that are true in the
inverse figure. See Inverse figures, under Inverse.

6. (Gram.)

Defn: A change of the usual order of words or phrases; as, "of all
vices, impurity is one of the most detestable," instead of, "impurity
is one of the most detestable of all vices."

7. (Rhet.)

Defn: A method of reasoning in which the orator shows that arguments
advanced by his adversary in opposition to him are really favorable
to his cause.

8. (Mus.)
(a) Said of intervals, when the lower tone is placed an octave
higher, so that fifths become fourths, thirds sixths, etc.
(b) Said of a chord, when one of its notes, other than its root, is
made the bass.
(c) Said of a subject, or phrase, when the intervals of which it
consists are repeated in the contrary direction, rising instead of
falling, or vice versa.
(d) Said of double counterpoint, when an upper and a lower part
change places.

9. (Geol.)

Defn: The folding back of strata upon themselves, as by upheaval, in
such a manner that the order of succession appears to be reversed.

10. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process by which cane sugar (sucrose), under the
action of heat and acids or ferments (as diastase), is broken or
split up into grape sugar (dextrose), and fruit sugar (levulose);
also, less properly, the process by which starch is converted into
grape sugar (dextrose).

Note: The terms invert and inversion, in this sense, owe their
meaning to the fact that the plane of polarization of light, which is
rotated to the right by cane sugar, is turned toward the left by
levulose.

INVERT
In*vert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inverted; p. pr. & vb. n. Inverting.]
Etym: [L. invertere, inversum; pref. in- in + vertere to turn. See
Verse.]

1. To turn over; to put upside down; to upset; to place in a contrary
order or direction; to reverse; as, to invert a cup, the order of
words, rules of justice, etc.
That doth invert the attest of eyes and ears, As if these organs had
deceptious functions. Shak.
Such reasoning falls like an inverted cone, Wanting its proper base
to stand upon. Cowper.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: To change the position of; -- said of tones which form a chord,
or parts which compose harmony.

3. To divert; to convert to a wrong use. [Obs.] Knolles.

4. (Chem.)

Defn: To convert; to reverse; to decompose by, or subject to,
inversion. See Inversion, n., 10.

INVERT
In*vert", v. i. (Chem.)

Defn: To undergo inversion, as sugar.

INVERT
In"vert, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Subjected to the process of inversion; inverted; converted; as,
invert sugar. Invert sugar (Chem.), a variety of sugar, consisting of
a mixture of dextrose and levulose, found naturally in fruits, and
produced artificially by the inversion of cane sugar (sucrose); also,
less properly, the grape sugar or dextrose obtained from starch. See
Inversion, Dextrose, Levulose, and Sugar.

INVERT
In"vert, n. (Masonry)

Defn: An inverted arch.

INVERTASE
In*vert"ase, n. (Chem.)
 (a) An enzyme capable of effecting the inversion of cane suger,
producing invert sugar. It is found in many plants and in the
intestines of animals.
 (b) By extension, any enzyme which splits cane sugar, milk sugar,
lactose, etc., into monosaccharides.

INVERTEBRAL
In*ver"te*bral, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Invertebrate.

INVERTEBRATA
In*ver`te*bra"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. in- not + vertebratus
vertebrate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A comprehensive division of the animal kingdom, including all
except the Vertebrata.

INVERTEBRATE
In*ver"te*brate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Destitute of a backbone; having no vertebræ; of or pertaining
to the Invertebrata.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Invertebrata. Age of invertebrates. See Age, and
Silurian.

INVERTEBRATED
In*ver"te*bra`ted, a.

Defn: Having no backbone; invertebrate.

INVERTED
In*vert"ed, a.

1. Changed to a contrary or counterchanged order; reversed;
characterized by inversion.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Situated apparently in reverse order, as strata when folded
back upon themselves by upheaval. Inverted arch (Arch.), an arch
placed with crown downward; -- much used in foundations.

INVERTEDLY
In*vert"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inverted order. Derham.

INVERTIBLE
In*vert"i*ble, a. Etym: [From Invert.]

1. Capable of being inverted or turned.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Capable of being changed or converted; as, invertible sugar.

INVERTIBLE
In*vert"i*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + L. vertere to turn + -ible.]

Defn: Incapable of being turned or changed.
An indurate and invertible conscience. Cranmer.

INVERTIN
In*vert"in, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: An unorganized ferment which causes cane sugar to take up a
molecule of water and be converted into invert sugar.

INVEST
In*vest", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Invested; p. pr. & vb. n. Investing.]
Etym: [L. investire, investitum; pref. in- in + vestire to clothe,
fr. vestis clothing: cf. F. investir. See Vest.]

1. To put garments on; to clothe; to dress; to array; -- opposed to
divest. Usually followed by with, sometimes by in; as, to invest one
with a robe.

2. To put on. [Obs.]
Can not find one this girdle to invest. Spenser.

3. To clothe, as with office or authority; to place in possession of
rank, dignity, or estate; to endow; to adorn; to grace; to bedeck;
as, to invest with honor or glory; to invest with an estate.
I do invest you jointly with my power. Shak.

4. To surround, accompany, or attend.
Awe such as must always invest the spectacle of the guilt. Hawthorne.

5. To confer; to give. [R.]
It investeth a right of government. Bacon.

6. (Mil.)

Defn: To inclose; to surround of hem in with troops, so as to
intercept succors of men and provisions and prevent escape; to lay
siege to; as, to invest a town.

7. To lay out (money or capital) in business with the as, to invest
money in bank stock.

INVEST
In*vest", v. i.

Defn: To make an investment; as, to invest in stocks; -- usually
followed by in.

INVESTIENT
In*vest"ient, a. Etym: [L. investiens, p. pr. of investire.]

Defn: Covering; clothing. [R.] Woodward.

INVESTIGABLE
In*ves"ti*ga*ble, a. Etym: [L. investigabilis. See Investigate.]

Defn: Capable or susceptible of being investigated; admitting
research. Hooker.

INVESTIGABLE
In*ves"ti*ga*ble, a. Etym: [L. investigabilis. See In- not, and
Vestigate.]

Defn: Unsearchable; inscrutable. [Obs.]
So unsearchable the judgment and so investigable the ways thereof.
Bale.

INVESTIGATE
In*ves"ti*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Investigated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Investigating.] Etym: [L. investigatus, p. p. of investigare to
investigate; pref. in- in + vestigare to track, trace. See Vestige.]

Defn: To follow up step by step by patient inquiry or observation; to
trace or track mentally; to search into; to inquire and examine into
with care and accuracy; to find out by careful inquisition; as, to
investigate the causes of natural phenomena.

INVESTIGATE
In*ves"ti*gate, v. i.

Defn: To pursue a course of investigation and study; to make
investigation.

INVESTIGATION
In*ves`ti*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. investigatio: cf. F. investigation.]

Defn: The act of investigating; the process of inquiring into or
following up; research; study; inquiry, esp. patient or thorough
inquiry or examination; as, the investigations of the philosopher and
the mathematician; the investigations of the judge, the moralist.

INVESTIGATIVE
In*ves"ti*ga*tive, a.

Defn: Given to investigation; inquisitive; curious; searching.

INVESTIGATOR
In*ves"ti*ga`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. investigateur.]

Defn: One who searches diligently into a subject.

INVESTITURE
In*ves"ti*ture, n. Etym: [LL. investitura: cf. F. investiture.]

1. The act or ceremony of investing, or the of being invested, as
with an office; a giving possession; also, the right of so investing.
He had refused to yield up to the pope the investiture of bishops.
Sir W. Raleigh.

2. (Feudal Law)

Defn: Livery of seizin.
The grant of land or a feud was perfected by the ceremony
oinvestiture, or open delivery of possession. Blackstone.

3. That with which anyone is invested or clothed; investment;
clothing; covering.
While we yet have on Our gross investiture of mortal weeds. Trench.

INVESTIVE
In*vest"ive, a.

Defn: Investing. [R.] Mir. for Mag.

INVESTMENT
In*vest"ment, n.

1. The act of investing, or the state of being invested.

2. That with which anyone is invested; a vestment.
Whose white investments figure innocence. Shak.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: The act of surrounding, blocking up, or besieging by an armed
force, or the state of being so surrounded.
The capitulation was signed by the commander of the fort within six
days after its investments. Marshall.

4. The laying out of money in the purchase of some species of
property; the amount of money invested, or that in which money is
invested.
Before the investment could be made, a change of the market might
render it ineligible. A. Hamilton.
An investment in ink, paper, and steel pens. Hawthorne.

INVESTOR
In*vest"or, n.

Defn: One who invests.

INVESTURE
In*ves"ture, n.

Defn: Investiture; investment. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.

INVESTURE
In*ves"ture, v. t.

Defn: To clothe; to invest; to install. [Obs.] "Monks . . .
investured in their copes." Fuller.

INVETERACY
In*vet"er*a*cy, n. Etym: [From Inveterate.]

1. Firm establishment by long continuance; firmness or deep-rooted
obstinacy of any quality or state acquired by time; as, the
inveteracy of custom, habit, or disease; -- usually in a bad sense;
as, the inveteracy of prejudice or of error.
An inveteracy of evil habits that will prompt him to contract more.
A. Tucker.

2. Malignity; spitefulness; virulency.
The rancor of pamphlets, the inveteracy of epigrams, an the
mortification of lampoons. Guardian.

INVETERATE
In*vet"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. inveteratus, p. p. of inveterare to
render old; pref. in- in + vetus, veteris, old. See Veteran.]

1. Old; long-established. [Obs.]
It is an inveterate and received opinion. Bacon.

2. Firmly established by long continuance; obstinate; deep-rooted; of
long standing; as, an inveterate disease; an inveterate abuse.
Heal the inveterate canker of one wound. Shak.

3. Having habits fixed by long continuance; confirmed; habitual; as,
an inveterate idler or smoker.

4. Malignant; virulent; spiteful. H. Brooke.

INVETERATE
In*vet"er*ate, v. t.

Defn: To fix and settle by long continuance. [Obs.] Bacon.

INVETERATELY
In*vet"er*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inveterate manner or degree. "Inveterately tough."
Hawthorne.

INVETERATENESS
In*vet"er*ate*ness, n.

Defn: Inveteracy. Sir T. Browne.

INVETERATION
In*vet`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. inveteratio.]

Defn: The act of making inveterate. [R.] Bailey.

INVICT
In*vict", a. Etym: [L. invictus. See In- not, and Victor.]

Defn: Invincible. [Obs.] Joye.

INVIDIOUS
In*vid"i*ous, a. Etym: [L. invidiosus, fr. invidia envy. See Envy,
and cf. Envious.]

1. Envious; malignant. [Obs.] Evelyn.

2. Worthy of envy; desirable; enviable. [Obs.]
Such a person appeareth in a far more honorable and invidious state
than any prosperous man. Barrow.

3. Likely to incur or produce ill will, or to provoke envy; hateful;
as, invidious distinctions.
Agamemnon found it an invidious affair to give the preference to any
one of the Grecian heroes. Broome.
-- In*vid"i*ous*ly, adv.
 -- In*vid"i*ous*ness, n.

INVIGILANCE; INVIGILANCY
In*vig"i*lance, In*vig"i*lan*cy, n. Etym: [in- not + vigilance: cf.
OF. invigilance.]

Defn: Want of vigilance; neglect of watching; carelessness.

INVIGOR
In*vig"or, v. t.

Defn: To invigorate. [Obs.]

INVIGORATE
In*vig"or*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Invigorated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Invigorating.] Etym: [Pref. in- in + vigor.]

Defn: To give vigor to; to strengthen; to animate; to give life and
energy to.
Christian graces and virtues they can not be, unless fed,
invigorated, and animated by universal charity. Atterbury.

Syn.
 -- To refresh; animate; exhilarate; stimulate.

INVIGORATION
In*vig`or*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of invigorating, or the state of being invigorated.

INVILE
In*vile", v. t.

Defn: To render vile. [Obs.] Daniel.

INVILLAGED
In*vil"laged (; 48), p. a.

Defn: Turned into, or reduced to, a village. [Obs.] W. Browne.

INVINCIBILITY
In*vin`ci*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. invincibilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being invincible; invincibleness.

INVINCIBLE
In*vin"ci*ble, a. Etym: [L. invincibilis: cf. F. invincible. See In-
not, and Vincible.]

Defn: Incapable of being conquered, overcome, or subdued;
unconquerable; insuperable; as, an invincible army, or obstacle.
Lead forth to battle these my sons Invincible. Milton.
-- In*vin"ci*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*vin"ci*bly, adv.

INVIOLABILITY
In*vi`o*la*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. inviolabilitas: cf. F.
inviolabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being inviolable; inviolableness.

INVIOLABLE
In*vi"o*la*ble, a. Etym: [L. inviolabilis: cf. F. inviolable. See
Inviolate, a.]

1. Not violable; not susceptible of hurt, wound, or harm (used with
respect to either physical or moral damage); not susceptible of being
profaned or corrupted; sacred; holy; as, inviolable honor or
chastity; an inviolable shrine.
He tried a third, a tough, well-chosen spear, The inviolable body
stood sincere. Dryden.

2. Unviolated; uninjured; undefiled; uncorrupted.
For thou, be sure, shalt give account To him who sent us, whose
charge is to keep This place inviolable, and these from harm. Milton.

3. Not capable of being broken or violated; as, an inviolable
covenant, agreement, promise, or vow.
Their almighty Maker first ordained And bound them with inviolable
bands. Spenser.
And keep our faiths firm and inviolable. Shak.

INVIOLABLENESS
In*vi"o*la*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being inviolable; as, the
inviolableness of divine justice.

INVIOLABLY
In*vi"o*la*bly, adv.

Defn: Without violation.

INVIOLACY
In*vi"o*la*cy, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being inviolate; as, the inviolacy of
an oath.

INVIOLATE; INVIOLATED
In*vi"o*late, In*vi"o*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. inviolatus. See In- not,
and Violate.]

1. Not violated; uninjured; unhurt; unbroken.
His fortune of arms was still inviolate. Bacon.

2. Not corrupted, defiled, or profaned; chaste; pure. "Inviolate
truth." Denham.
There chaste Alceste lives inviolate. Spenser.

INVIOLATELY
In*vi"o*late*ly, adv.

Defn: In an inviolate manner.

INVIOLATENESS
In*vi"o*late*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being inviolate.

INVIOUS
In"vi*ous, a. Etym: [L. invius; pref. in- not + via way.]

Defn: Untrodden. [R.] Hudibras.
 -- In"vi*ous*ness, n. [R.]

INVIRILE
In*vi"rile, a.

Defn: Deficient in manhood; unmanly; effeminate. Lowell.

INVIRILITY
In`vi*ril"i*ty, n.

Defn: Absence of virility or manhood; effeminacy. Prynne.

INVISCATE
In*vis"cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inviscated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inviscating.] Etym: [L. inviscatus, p. p. of inviscare to birdlime;
pref. in- in + viscum, viscus, the mistletoe, birdlime.]

Defn: To daub or catch with glue or birdlime; to entangle with
glutinous matter. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

INVISCERATE
In*vis"cer*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inviscerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inviscerating.] Etym: [L. invisceratus, p. p. of inviscerare to put
into the entrails. See Viscera.]

Defn: To breed; to nourish. [R.] W. Montagu.

INVISCERATE
In*vis"cer*ate, a. Etym: [L. invisceratus, p. p.]

Defn: Deep-seated; internal. [R.] W. Montagu.

INVISIBILITY
In*vis`i*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Invisibilities. Etym: [L. invisibilitas:
cf. F. invisibilité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being invisible; also, that which is
invisible. "Atoms and invisibilities." Landor.

INVISIBLE
In*vis"i*ble, a. Etym: [F. invisible, L. invisibilis. See In- not,
and Visible.]

Defn: Incapable of being seen; not perceptible by vision; not
visible.
To us invisible, or dimly seen In these thy lowest works. Milton.
Invisible bird (Zoöl.), a small, shy singing bird (Myadestes
sibilons), of St. Vincent Islands.
 -- Invisible green, a very dark shade of green, approaching to
black, and liable to be mistaken for it.

INVISIBLE
In*vis"i*ble, n.

1. An invisible person or thing; specifically, God, the Supreme
Being.

2. A Rosicrucian; -- so called because avoiding declaration of his
craft. [Obs.]

3. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of those (as in the 16th century) who denied the visibility
of the church. Shipley.

INVISIBLENESS
In*vis"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being invisible; invisibility.

INVISIBLY
In*vis"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an invisible manner, Denham.

INVISION
In*vi"sion, n.

Defn: Want of vision or of the power of seeing. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

INVITATION
In`vi*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. invitatio: cf. F. invitation. See
Invite.]

1. The act of inviting; solicitation; the requesting of a person's
company; as, an invitation to a party, to a dinner, or to visit a
friend.

2. A document written or printed, or spoken words,

3. Allurement; enticement. [R.]
She gives the leer of invitation. Shak.

INVITATORY
In*vi"ta*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. invitatorius: cf. F. invitatoire.]

Defn: Using or containing invitations.
The "Venite" [Psalm xcv.], which is also called the invitatory psalm.
Hook.

INVITATORY
In*vi"ta*to*ry, n.; pl. Invitatories. Etym: [LL. invitatorium: cf. F.
invitatoire.]

Defn: That which invites; specifically, the invitatory psalm, or a
part of it used in worship.

INVITE
In*vite", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Invited; p. pr. & vb. n. Inviting.]
Etym: [L. invitare: cf. F. inviter. See Vie.]

1. To ask; to request; to bid; to summon; to ask to do some act, or
go to some place; esp., to ask to an entertainment or visit; to
request the company of; as, to invite to dinner, or a wedding, or an
excursion.
So many guests invite as here are writ. Shak.
I invite his Grace of Castle Rackrent to reflect on this. Carlyle.

2. To allure; to draw to; to tempt to come; to induce by pleasure or
hope; to attract.
To inveigle and invite the unwary sense. Milton.
Shady groves, that easy sleep invite. Dryden.
There no delusive hope invites despair. Cowper.

3. To give occasion for; as, to invite criticism.

Syn.
 -- To solicit; bid; call; ask; summon; allure; attract; entice;
persuade.

INVITE
In*vite", v. i.

Defn: To give invitation. Milton.

INVITEMENT
In*vite"ment, n.

Defn: Invitation. [Obs.] Chapman.

INVITER
In*vit"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, invites.

INVITIATE
In*vi"ti*ate, a.

Defn: Not vitiated. Lowell.

INVITING
In*vit"ing, a.

Defn: Alluring; tempting; as, an inviting amusement or prospect.
Nothing is so easy and inviting as the retort of abuse and sarcasm.
W. Irving.
-- In*vit"ing*ly, adv.
 -- In*vit"ing*ness, n. Jer. Taylor.

INVITRIFIABLE
In*vit"ri*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Not admitting of being vitrified, or converted into glass.
Kirwan.

INVOCATE
In"vo*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Invocated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Invocating.] Etym: [L. invocatus, p. p. of invocare. See Invoke.]

Defn: To invoke; to call on, or for, in supplication; to implore.
If Dagon be thy god, Go to his temple, invocate his aid. Milton.

INVOCATION
In`vo*ca"tion, n. Etym: [F. invocation, L. invocatio.]

1. The act or form of calling for the assistance or presence of some
superior being; earnest and solemn entreaty; esp., prayer offered to
a divine being.
Sweet invocation of a child; most pretty and pathetical! Shak.
The whole poem is a prayer to Fortune, and the invocation is divided
between the two deities. Addison.

2. (Law)

Defn: A call or summons; especially, a judicial call, demand, or
order; as, the invocation of papers or evidence into court.

INVOCATORY
In"vo*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Making or containing invocation; invoking.

INVOICE
In"voice`, n. Etym: [F. envois things sent, goods forwarded, pl. of
envoi a sending or things sent, fr. envoyer to send; cf. F. lettre
d'envoi letter of advice of goods forwarded. See Envoy.]

1. (Com.)

Defn: A written account of the particulars of merchandise shipped or
sent to a purchaser, consignee, factor, etc., with the value or
prices and charges annexed. Wharton.

2. The lot or set of goods as shipped or received; as, the merchant
receives a large invoice of goods.

INVOICE
In"voice`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Invoiced; p. pr. & vb. n. Invoicing.]

Defn: To make a written list or account of, as goods to be sent to a
consignee; to insert in a priced list; to write or enter in an
invoice.
Goods, wares, and merchandise imported from Norway, and invoiced in
the current dollar of Norway. Madison.

INVOKE
In*voke", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Invoked; p. pr. & vb. n. Invoking.]
Etym: [F. invoquer, L. invocare; pref. in- in, on + vocare to call,
fr. vox voice. See Voice, and cf. Invocate.]

Defn: To call on for aid or protection; to invite earnestly or
solemnly; to summon; to address in prayer; to solicit or demand by
invocation; to implore; as, to invoke the Supreme Being, or to invoke
His and blessing.
Go, my dread lord, to your great grandsire's tomb, . . . Invoke his
warlike spirit. Shak.

INVOLUCEL
In*vol"u*cel, n. Etym: [Dim. of involucre, or involucrum: cf. F.
involucelle.] (Bot.)

Defn: A partial, secondary, or small involucre. See Illust. of
Involucre.

INVOLUCELLATE
In`vo*lu"cel*late, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Furnished with involucels.

INVOLUCELLUM
In`vo*lu*cel"lum, n.; pl. Involucella. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: See Involucel.

INVOLUCRAL
In`vo*lu"cral, a. Etym: [Cf. F. involucral.]

Defn: Pertaining to, possessing, or like, an involucrum.

INVOLUCRATE; INVOLUCRATED
In`vo*lu"crate, In`vo*lu"cra*ted, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having an involucre; involucred.

INVOLUCRE
In"vo*lu`cre, n. Etym: [L. involucrum a covering, wrapper, fr.
involvere to wrap up, envelop: cf. F. involucre. See Involve.] (Bot.)
(a) A whorl or set of bracts around a flower, umbel, or head.
(b) A continuous marginal covering of sporangia, in certain ferns, as
in the common brake, or the cup-shaped processes of the filmy ferns.
(c) The peridium or volva of certain fungi. Called also involucrum.

INVOLUCRED
In"vo*lu`cred, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having an involucre, as umbels, heads, etc. Martyn.

INVOLUCRET
In`vo*lu"cret, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An involucel.

INVOLUCRUM
In`vo*lu"crum, n.; pl. L. Involucra, E. Involucrums. Etym: [L. See
Involucre.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: See Involucre.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sheath which surrounds the base of the lasso cells in the
Siphonophora.

INVOLUNTARILY
In*vol"un*ta*ri*ly, adv. Etym: [From Involuntary.]

Defn: In an involuntary manner; not voluntarily; not intentionally or
willingly.

INVOLUNTARINESS
In*vol"un*ta*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being involuntary; unwillingness;
automatism.

INVOLUNTARY
In*vol"un*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. involuntarius. See In- not, and
Voluntary.]

1. Not having will of the power of choice.

2. Not under the influence or control of the will; not voluntary; as,
the involuntary movements of the body; involuntary muscle fibers.

3. Not proceeding from choice; done unwillingly; reluctant;
compulsory; as, involuntary submission.

INVOLUTE; INVOLUTED
In"vo*lute, In"vo*lu`ted, a. Etym: [L. involutus, p. p. of involvere.
See Involve.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Rolled inward from the edges; -- said of leaves in vernation,
or of the petals of flowers in æstivation. Gray.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) Turned inward at the margin, as the exterior lip of the Cyprea.
(b) Rolled inward spirally.

INVOLUTE
In"vo*lute, n. (Geom.)

Defn: A curve traced by the end of a string wound upon another curve,
or unwound from it; -- called also evolvent. See Evolute.

INVOLUTION
In`vo*lu"tion, n. Etym: [L. involutio: cf. F. involution. See
Involve.]

1. The act of involving or infolding.

2. The state of being entangled or involved; complication;
entanglement.
All things are mixed, and causes blended, by mutual involutions.
Glanvill.

3. That in which anything is involved, folded, or wrapped; envelope.
Sir T. Browne.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: The insertion of one or more clauses between the subject and
the verb, in a way that involves or complicates the construction.

5. (Math.)

Defn: The act or process of raising a quantity to any power assigned;
the multiplication of a quantity into itself a given number of times;
-- the reverse of evolution.

6. (Geom.)

Defn: The relation which exists between three or more sets of points,
a.a', b.b', c.c', so related to a point O on the line, that the
product Oa.Oa' = Ob.Ob' = Oc.Oc' is constant. Sets of lines or
surfaces possessing corresponding properties may be in involution.

7. (Med.)

Defn: The return of an enlarged part or organ to its normal size, as
of the uterus after pregnancy.

INVOLVE
In*volve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Involved; p. pr. & vb. n. Involving.]
Etym: [L. involvere, involutum, to roll about, wrap up; pref. in- in
+ volvere to roll: cf. OF. involver. See Voluble, and cf. Involute.]

1. To roll or fold up; to wind round; to entwine.
Some of serpent kind . . . involved Their snaky folds. Milton.

2. To envelop completely; to surround; to cover; to hide; to involve
in darkness or obscurity.
And leave a singèd bottom all involved With stench and smoke. Milton.

3. To complicate or make intricate, as in grammatical structure.
"Involved discourses." Locke.

4. To connect with something as a natural or logical consequence or
effect; to include necessarily; to imply.
He knows His end with mine involved. Milton.
The contrary necessarily involves a contradiction. Tillotson.

5. To take in; to gather in; to mingle confusedly; to blend or merge.
[R.]
The gathering number, as it moves along, Involves a vast involuntary
throng. Pope.
Earth with hell To mingle and involve. Milton.

6. To envelop, infold, entangle, or embarrass; as, to involve a
person in debt or misery.

7. To engage thoroughly; to occupy, employ, or absorb. "Involved in a
deep study." Sir W. Scott.

8. (Math.)

Defn: To raise to any assigned power; to multiply, as a quantity,
into itself a given number of times; as, a quantity involved to the
third or fourth power.

Syn.
 -- To imply; include; implicate; complicate; entangle; embarrass;
overwhelm.
 -- To Involve, Imply. Imply is opposed to express, or set forth;
thus, an implied engagement is one fairly to be understood from the
words used or the circumstances of the case, though not set forth in
form. Involve goes beyond the mere interpretation of things into
their necessary relations; and hence, if one thing involves another,
it so contains it that the two must go together by an indissoluble
connection. War, for example, involves wide spread misery and death;
the premises of a syllogism involve the conclusion.

INVOLVED
In*volved", a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Involute.

INVOLVEDNESS
In*volv"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being involved.

INVOLVEMENT
In*volve"ment, n.

Defn: The act of involving, or the state of being involved. Lew
Wallace.

INVULGAR
In*vul"gar, v. t. Etym: [Pref. in- in + vulgar.]

Defn: To cause to become or appear vulgar. [Obs.] Daniel.

INVULGAR
In*vul"gar, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + vulgar.]

Defn: Not vulgar; refined; elegant. [Obs.] Drayton.

INVULNERABILITY
In*vul"ner*a*bil`i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. invulnérabilité.]

Defn: Quality or state of being invulnerable.

INVULNERABLE
In*vul"ner*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. invulnerabilis: cf. F. invulnérable.
See In- not, and Vulnerable.]

1. Incapable of being wounded, or of receiving injury.
Neither vainly hope To be invulnerable in those bright arms. Milton.

2. Unanswerable; irrefutable; that can not be refuted or convinced;
as, an invulnerable argument.

INVULNERABLENESS
In*vul"ner*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Invulnerability.

INVULNERATE
In*vul"ner*ate, a. Etym: [L. invulneratus unwounded.]

Defn: Invulnerable.

INWALL
In*wall", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inwalled; p. pr. & vb. n. Inwalling.]

Defn: To inclose or fortify as with a wall. Spenser.

INWALL
In"wall`, n.

Defn: An inner wall; specifically (Metal.), the inner wall, or
lining, of a blast furnace.

INWARD
In"ward, a. Etym: [AS. inweard, inneweard, innanweard, fr. innan,
inne, within (fr. in in; see In) + the suffix -weard, E. -ward.]

1. Being or placed within; inner; interior; -- opposed to outward.
Milton.

2. Seated in the mind, heart, spirit, or soul. "Inward beauty." Shak.

3. Intimate; domestic; private. [Obs.]
All my inward friends abhorred me. Job xix. 19.
He had had occasion, by one very inward with him, to know in part the
discourse of his life. Sir P. Sidney.

INWARD
In"ward, n.

1. That which is inward or within; especially, in the plural, the
inner parts or organs of the body; the viscera. Jer. Taylor.
Then sacrificing, laid the inwards and their fat. Milton.

2. The mental faculties; -- usually pl. [Obs.]

3. An intimate or familiar friend or acquaintance. [Obs.] "I was an
inward of his." Shak.

INWARD; INWARDS
In"ward, In"wards, adv. Etym: [AS. inweard. The ending -s is prop. a
genitive ending. See Inward, a., -wards.]

1. Toward the inside; toward the center or interior; as, to bend a
thing inward.

2. Into, or toward, the mind or thoughts; inwardly; as, to turn the
attention inward.
So much the rather, thou Celestial Light, Shine inward. Milton.

INWARDLY
In"ward*ly, adv. Etym: [AS. inweardlice.]

1. In the inner parts; internally.
Let Benedick, like covered fire, Consume away in sighs, waste
inwardly. Shak.

2. Toward the center; inward; as, to curve inwardly.

3. In the heart or mind; mentally; privately; secretas, he inwardly
repines.

4. Intimately; thoroughly. [Obs.]
I shall desire to know him more inwardly. Beau. & Fl.

INWARDNESS
In"ward*ness, n.

1. Internal or true state; essential nature; as, the inwardness of
conduct.
Sense can not arrive to the inwardness Of things. Dr. H. More.

2. Intimacy; familiarity. [Obs.] Shak.

3. Heartiness; earnestness.
What was wanted was more inwardness, more feeling. M. Arnold.

INWARDS
In"wards, adv.

Defn: See Inward.

INWEAVE
In*weave", v. t.

Defn: To weave in or together; to intermix or intertwine by weaving;
to interlace.
Down they cast Their crowns, inwove with amaranth and gold. Milton.

INWHEEL
In*wheel", v. t.

Defn: To encircle. [R.] Beau. & Fl.

INWIT
In"wit, n.

Defn: Inward sense; mind; understanding; conscience. [Obs.] Wyclif.

INWITH
In*with", prep.

Defn: Within. [Obs.]
This purse hath she inwith her bosom hid. Chaucer.

INWORK
In*work", v. t. & i. Etym: [Pref. in- + work. Cf. Inwrought.]

Defn: To work in or within.

INWORN
In"worn`, p. a.

Defn: Worn, wrought, or stamped in. [R.] Milton.

INWRAP
In*wrap", v. t. Etym: [Written also enwrap.]

1. To cover by wrapping; to involve; to infold; as, to inwrap in a
cloak, in smoke, etc.

2. To involve, as in difficulty or perplexity; to perplex. [R.] Bp.
Hall.

INWREATHE
In*wreathe", v. t.

Defn: To surround or encompass as with a wreath. [Written also
enwreathe.]
Resplendent locks, inwreathed with beams. Milton.

INWROUGHT
In*wrought", p. p. or a. Etym: [Pref. in- + wrought. Cf. Inwork.]

Defn: Wrought or worked in or among other things; worked into any
fabric so as to from a part of its texture; wrought or adorned, as
with figures.
His mantle hairy, and his bonnet sedge, Inwrought with figures dim.
Milton.

IO
I"o, n.; pl. Ios. Etym: [L.; cf. Gr. "iw`.]

Defn: An exclamation of joy or triumph; -- often interjectional.

IOD-
I"od-. (Chem.)

Defn: See Iodo-.

IODAL
I"o*dal, n. Etym: [Iod- + alcohol.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oily liquid, Cl3.CHO, analogous to chloral and bromal.

IODATE
I"o*date, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of iodic acid.

IODHYDRIN
I`od*hy"drin, n. Etym: [Iod- + chlorhydrin.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of compounds containing iodine, and analogous
to the chlorhydrins.

IODIC
I*od"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. iodique. See Iodine.] (Chem.)

Defn: to, or containing, iodine; specif., denoting those compounds in
which it has a relatively high valence; as, iodic acid. Iodic acid, a
monobasic acid, consisting of iodine with three parts of oxygen and
one of hydrogen.

IODIDE
I"o*dide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound of iodine, or one which may be regarded as
binary; as, potassium iodide.

IODINE
I"o*dine (; 104), n. Etym: [Gr. iode, iodine. The name was given from
the violet color of its vapor. See Violet, Idyl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nonmetallic element, of the halogen group, occurring always
in combination, as in the iodides. When isolated it is in the form of
dark gray metallic scales, resembling plumbago, soft but brittle, and
emitting a chlorinelike odor. Symbol I. Atomic weight 126.5. If
heated, iodine volatilizes in beautiful violet vapors.

Note: Iodine was formerly obtained from the ashes of seaweed (kelp or
varec), but is now also extracted from certain natural brines. In the
free state, iodine, even in very minute quantities, colors starch
blue. Iodine and its compounds are largely used in medicine (as in
liniments, antisyphilitics, etc.), in photography, in the preparation
of aniline dyes, and as an indicator in titration. Iodine green, an
artificial green dyestuff, consisting of an iodine derivative of
rosaniline; -- called also night green.
 -- Iodine scarlet, a pigment of an intense scarlet color, consisting
of mercuric iodide.
 -- Iodine yellow, a brilliant yellow pigment, consisting of plumbic
iodide.

IODISM
I"o*dism, n. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid state produced by the use of iodine and its compounds,
and characterized by palpitation, depression, and general emaciation,
with a pustular eruption upon the skin.

IODIZE
I"o*dize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Iodized; p. pr. & vb. n. Iodizing.]

Defn: To treat or impregnate with iodine or its compounds; as, to
iodize a plate for photography. R. Hunt.

IODIZER
I"o*di`zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, iodizes.

IODO-; IOD-
I"o*do-, I"od-. (Chem.)

Defn: A prefix, or combining from, indicating iodine as an
ingredient; as, iodoform.

IODOCRESOL
I`o*do*cre"sol, n.  [Iodo- + cresol.] (Org. Chem.)

Defn: Any of several isomeric iodine derivatives of the cresols,
C6H3I(CH3)OH, esp. one, an odorless amorphous powder, used in
medicine as a substitute for iodoform.

IODOFORM
I*od"o*form, n. Etym: [Iodo- + formyl. See Formyl, and cf.
Chloroform.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow, crystalline, volatile substance, CI3H, having an
offensive odor and sweetish taste, and analogous to chloroform. It is
used in medicine as a healing and antiseptic dressing for wounds and
sores.

IODOFORMOGEN
I`o*do*for"mo*gen, n. [Iodoform + -gen root of gi`gnesqai to be
born.] (Pharm.)

Defn: A light powder used as a substitute for iodoform. It is a
compound of iodoform and albumin.

IODOL
I"o*dol, n.  [Iodo- + pyrrol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystallized substance of the composition C4I4NH, technically
tetra-iodo-pyrrol, used like iodoform.

IODOQUININE
I`o*do*qui"nine, n. Etym: [Iodo- + quinine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A iodide of quinine obtained as a brown substance,. It is the
base of herapathite. See Herapathite.

IODOTHYRIN
I`o*do*thy"rin, n.  [Iodo- + thyro- + -in.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar substance obtained from the thyroid gland,
containing from nine to ten per cent of iodine.

 It is a very stable compound, and is believed to be active principle
in thyroid extracts and in the internal secretion of the thyroid
gland. It was originally called thyroiodin.

IODOUS
I"o*dous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, iodine. See -ous (chemical
suffix). Iodous acid, a hypothetical acid, analogous to chlorous
acid.

IODURET
I*od"u*ret, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Iodide. [Obs.]

IODYRITE
I*od"y*rite, n. Etym: [From Iodine.] (Min.)

Defn: Silver iodide, a mineral of a yellowish color.

IOLITE
I"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A silicate of alumina, iron, and magnesia, having a bright blue
color and vitreous luster; cordierite. It is remarkable for its
dichroism, and is also called dichroite.

IO MOTH
I"o moth`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large and handsome American moth (Hyperchiria Io), having a
large, bright-colored spot on each hind wing, resembling the spots on
the tail of a peacock. The larva is covered with prickly hairs, which
sting like nettles.

-ION
-ion. Etym: [L. -io, acc. -ionem: cf. F. -ion.]

Defn: A noun suffix denoting act, process, result of an act or a
process, thing acted upon, state, or condition; as, revolution, the
act or process of revolving; construction, the act or process of
constructing; a thing constructed; dominion, territory ruled over;
subjection, state of being subject; dejection; abstraction.

ION
I"on, n. Etym: [Gr. (Elec. Chem.)

Defn: One of the elements which appear at the respective poles when a
body is subjected to electro-chemical decomposition. Cf. Anion,
Cation.

IONIAN
I*o"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Ionius. See Ionic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Ionia or the Ionians; Ionic.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or citizen of Ionia.

IONIC
I*on"ic, a. Etym: [L. Ionicus, Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to Ionia or the Ionians.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Ionic order of architecture, one of the three
orders invented by the Greeks, and one of the five recognized by the
Italian writers of the sixteenth century. Its distinguishing feature
is a capital with spiral volutes. See Illust. of Capital. Ionic
dialect (Gr. Gram.), a dialect of the Greek language, used in Ionia.
The Homeric poems are written in what is designated old Ionic, as
distinguished from new Ionic, or Attic, the dialect of all cultivated
Greeks in the period of Athenian prosperity and glory.
 -- Ionic foot. (Pros.) See Ionic, n., 1.
 -- Ionic, or Ionian, mode (Mus.), an ancient mode, supposed to
correspond with the modern major scale of C.
 -- Ionic sect, a sect of philosophers founded by Thales of Miletus,
in Ionia. Their distinguishing tenet was, that water is the original
principle of all things.
 -- Ionic type, a kind of heavy-faced type (as that of the following
line).

Note: This is Nonpareil Ionic.

IONIC
Ionic a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an ion; composed of ions.

IONIC
I*on"ic, n.

1. (Pros.)
(a) A foot consisting of four syllables: either two long and two
short, -- that is, a spondee and a pyrrhic, in which case it is
called the greater Ionic; or two short and two long, -- that is, a
pyrrhic and a spondee, in which case it is called the smaller Ionic.
(b) A verse or meter composed or consisting of Ionic feet.

2. The Ionic dialect; as, the Homeric Ionic.

3. (Print.)

Defn: Ionic type.

IONIDIUM
I`o*nid"i*um, n. Etym: [NL. Cf. Iodine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of violaceous plants, chiefly found in tropical
America, some species of which are used as substitutes for
ipecacuanha.

IONIZE
I"on*ize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Ionized; p. pr. & vb. n. Ionizing.]
(Elec. Chem.)

Defn: To separate (a compound) into ions, esp. by dissolving in
water. --I`on*i*za"tion (#), n.

IOQUA SHELL
I"o*qua shell`. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The shell of a large Dentalium (D. pretiosum), formerly used as
shell money, and for ornaments, by the Indians of the west coast of
North America.

IOTA
I*o"ta, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Jot.]

1. The ninth letter of the Greek alphabet (i) corresponding with the
English i.

2. A very small quantity or degree; a jot; a particle.
They never depart an iota from the authentic formulas of tyranny and
usurpation. Burke.
Iota subscript (Gr. Gram.), iota written beneath a preceding vowel,
as a,, h,, w,, -- done when iota is silent.

IOTACISM
I*o"ta*cism, n. Etym: [Gr. iotacisme. See Iota.]

Defn: The frequent use of the sound of iota (that of English e in
be), as among the modern Greeks; also, confusion from sounding
Littré.

I O U
I O U. Etym: [i. e., I owe you.]

Defn: A paper having on it these letters, with a sum named, and duly
signed; -- in use in England as an acknowledgment of a debt, and
taken as evidence thereof, but not amounting to a promissory note; a
due bill. Wharton. Story.

IOWAS
I"o*was, n. pl.

Defn: ; sing. Iowa. (Ethnol.) A tribe of Indians which formerly
occupied the region now included in the State of Iowa.

IPECAC
Ip"e*cac, n.

Defn: An abbreviation of Ipecacuanha, and in more frequent use.

IPECACUANHA
Ip`e*cac`u*an"ha, n. Etym: [Pg. ipecacuanha (cf. Sp. ipecacuana); fr.
Braz. ipe-kaa-guena, prop., a creeping plant that causes vomiting.]
(Med. & Bot.)

Defn: The root of a Brazilian rubiaceous herb (Cephaëlis
Ipecacuanha), largely employed as an emetic; also, the plant itself;
also, a medicinal extract of the root. Many other plants are used as
a substitutes; among them are the black or Peruvian ipecac
(Psychotria emetica), the white ipecac (Ionidium Ipecacuanha), the
bastard or wild ipecac (Asclepias Curassavica), and the undulated
ipecac (Richardsonia scabra).

IPOCRAS
Ip"o*cras, n.

Defn: Hippocras. [Obs.] Chaucer.

IPOMOEA
Ip`o*moe"a, n. Etym: [NL. "Named, according to Linnæus, from Gr.
'i`ps, 'ipo`s, a bindweed [which it is not]

Defn: , and Gray.] (Bot.) A genus of twining plants with showy
monopetalous flowers, including the morning-glory, the sweet potato,
and the cypress vine.

IPOMOEIC
Ip`o*moe"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the
oxidation of convolvulin (obtained from jalap, the tubers of Ipomoea
purga), and identical in most of its properties with sebacic acid.

IR-
Ir-

Defn: . A form of the prefix in-. See In-.

IRACUND
I"ra*cund, a. Etym: [L. iracundus, fr. ira anger.]

Defn: Irascible; choleric. "Iracund people." Carlyle.

IRADE
I*ra"de (e*rä"day), n. Etym: [Turk.]

Defn: A decree of the Sultan.

IRAN
I`ran" (e`rän"), n. Etym: [Mod. Persian Iran. Cf. Aryan.]

Defn: The native name of Persia.

IRANIAN
I*ra"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Iran.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Iran; also, the Iranian or Persian language, a
division of the Aryan family of languages.

IRANIC
I*ran"ic, a.

Defn: Iranian.

IRASCIBILITY
I*ras`ci*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. irascibilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being irascible; irritability of
temper; irascibleness.

IRASCIBLE
I*ras"ci*ble, a. Etym: [L. irascibilis, fr. irasci to be angry, ira
anger: cf. F. irascible. See Ire.]

Defn: Prone to anger; easily provoked or inflamed to anger; choleric;
irritable; as, an irascible man; an irascible temper or mood.
 -- I*ras"ci*ble*ness, n.
 -- I*ras"ci*bly, adv.

IRATE
I*rate", a. Etym: [L. iratus, fr. irasci to be angry. See Ire.]

Defn: Angry; incensed; enraged. [Recent]
The irate colonel . . . stood speechless. Thackeray.
Mr. Jaggers suddenly became most irate. Dickens.

IRE
Ire, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. ira.]

Defn: Anger; wrath. [Poet.]

Syn.
 -- Anger; passion; rage; fury. See Anger.

IREFUL
Ire"ful, a.

Defn: Full of ire; angry; wroth. "The ireful bastard Orleans." Shak.
 -- Ire"ful*ly, adv.

IREFULNESS
Ire"ful*ness, n.

Defn: Wrathfulness. Wyclif.

IRENARCH
I"re*narch, n. Etym: [L. irenarcha, irenarches, Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: An officer in the Greek empire having functions corresponding
to those of a justice of the peace. [Written also eirenarch.]

IRENIC; IRENICAL
I*ren"ic, I*ren"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Fitted or designed to promote peace; pacific; conciliatory;
peaceful. Bp. Hall.

IRENICON
I*ren"i*con, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

Defn: A proposition or device for securing peace, especially in the
church. South.

IRENICS
I*ren"ics, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: That branch of Christian science which treats of the methods of
securing unity among Christians or harmony and union among the
churches; -- called also Irenical theology. Schaff-Herzog.

IRESTONE
Ire"stone`, n. (Mining)

Defn: Any very hard rock.

IRIAN
I"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the iris. "Irian nerves." Dunglison.

IRICISM
I"ri*cism, n.

Defn: Irishism. [R.] Jeffrey.

IRIDACEOUS; IRIDEOUS
Ir`i*da"ceous, I*rid"e*ous, a. Etym: [From NL. Iris, Iridis, the
Iris.] (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a large natural order of
endogenous plants (Iridaceæ), which includes the genera Iris, Ixia,
Crocus, Gladiolus, and many others.

IRIDAL
I"ri*dal, a. Etym: [L. iris, iridis, rainbow. See Iris.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the iris or rainbow; prismatic; as, the
iridal colors. Whewell.

IRIDECTOMY
Ir`i*dec"to*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The act or process of cutting out a portion of the iris in
order to form an artificial pupil.

IRIDESCENCE
Ir`i*des"cence, n. Etym: [See Iridescent.]

Defn: Exhibition of colors like those of the rainbow; the quality or
state of being iridescent; a prismatic play of color; as, the
iridescence of mother-of-pearl.

IRIDESCENT
Ir`i*des"cent, a. Etym: [L. iris, iridis, the rainbow: cf. F.
iridescent.]

Defn: Having colors like the rainbow; exhibiting a play of changeable
colors; nacreous; prismatic; as, iridescent glass.

IRIDIAN
I*rid"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the iris or rainbow.

IRIDIATED
I*rid"i*a`ted, a.

Defn: Iridescent.

IRIDIC
I*rid"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the iris of the eye.

IRIDIC
I*rid"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to iridium; -- said specifically of those
compounds in which iridium has a relatively high valence.

IRIDIOSCOPE
I*rid"i*o*scope, n. Etym: [See Iris, and -scope.]

Defn: A kind of ophthalmoscope.

IRIDIOUS
I*rid"i*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to iridium; -- applied specifically to
compounds in which iridium has a low valence.

IRIDIUM
I*rid"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. iris, iridis, the rainbow. So
called from the iridescence of some of its solutions. See Iris.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A rare metallic element, of the same group as platinum, which
it much resembles, being silver-white, but harder, and brittle, and
indifferent to most corrosive agents. With the exception of osmium,
it is the heaviest substance known, its specific gravity being 22.4.
Symbol Ir. Atomic weight 192.5.

Note: Iridium usually occurs as a native alloy with osmium
(iridosmine or osmiridium), which may occur alone or with platinum.
Iridium, as an alloy with platinum, is used in bushing the vents of
heavy ordnance. It is also used for the points of gold pens, and in a
finely powdered condition (iridium black), for painting porcelain
black.

IRIDIZE
Ir"i*dize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Iridized; p. pr. & vb. n. Iridizing.]

1. To point or tip with iridium, as a gold pen.

2. To make iridescent; as, to iridize glass.

IRIDOLINE
I*rid"o*line, n. Etym: [Iridescent + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous base C10H9N, extracted from coal-tar naphtha, as
an oily liquid. It is a member of the quinoline series, and is
probably identical with lepidine.

IRIDOSMINE; IRIDOSMIUM
Ir`i*dos"mine, Ir`i*dos"mi*um, n. Etym: [Iridium + osmium.] (Min.)

Defn: The native compound of iridium and osmium. It is found in
flattened metallic grains of extreme hardness, and is often used for
pointing gold pens.

IRIS
I"ris, n.; pl. E. Irises, L. Irides. Etym: [L. iris, iridis, the
goddess, Gr. Orris.]

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The goddess of the rainbow, and swift-footed messenger of the
gods. Shak.

2. The rainbow. Sir T. Browne.

3. An appearance resembling the rainbow; a prismatic play of colors.
Tennyson.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: The contractile membrane perforated by the pupil, and forming
the colored portion of the eye. See Eye.

5. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants having showy flowers and bulbous or tuberous
roots, of which the flower-de-luce (fleur-de-lis), orris, and other
species of flag are examples. See Illust. of Flower-de-luce.

6. (Her.)

Defn: See Fleur-de-lis, 2.

IRISATED
I"ris*a`ted, a. Etym: [See Iris.]

Defn: Exhibiting the prismatic colors; irised; iridescent. W.
Phillips.

IRISCOPE
I"ri*scope, n. Etym: [Iris + -scope.]

Defn: A philosophical toy for exhibiting the prismatic tints by means
of thin films.

IRIS DIAPHRAGM
I"ris di"a*phragm.

Defn: An adjustable diaphragm, suggesting the iris of the eye in its
action, for regulating the aperture of a lens, consisting of a number
of thin pieces fastened to a ring. It is used in cameras and
microscopes.

IRISED
I"rised, a. Etym: [See Iris.]

Defn: Having colors like those of the rainbow; iridescent. Holmes.

IRISH
I"rish, a. Etym: [AS. , fr. the Irish. Cf. Aryan, Erse.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Ireland or to its inhabitants; produced in
Ireland. Irish elk. (Zoöl.) See under Elk.
 -- Irish moss. (a) (Bot.) Carrageen. (b) A preparation of the same
made into a blanc mange.
 -- Irish poplin. See Poplin.
 -- Irish potato, the ordinary white potato, so called because it is
a favorite article of food in Ireland.
 -- Irish reef, or Irishman's reef (Naut.), the head of a sail tied
up.
 -- Irish stew, meat, potatoes, and onions, cut in small pieces and
stewed.

IRISH
I*rish", n. sing. & pl.

1. pl.

Defn: The natives or inhabitants of Ireland, esp. the Celtic natives
or their descendants.

2. The language of the Irish; the Hiberno-Celtic.

3. An old game resembling backgammon.

IRISH AMERICAN
I"rish A*mer"i*can.

Defn: A native of Ireland who has become an American citizen; also, a
child or descendant of such a person.

IRISHISM
I*rish"*ism, n.

Defn: A mode of speaking peculiar to the Irish; an Hibernicism.

IRISHMAN
I"rish*man, n.; pl. Irishmen (.

Defn: A man born in Ireland or of the Irish race; an Hibernian.
Irishman's hurricane (Naut.), a dead calm.
 -- Irishman's reef. (Naut.) See Irish reef, under Irish, a.

IRISHRY
I"rish*ry, n.

Defn: The Celtic people of Ireland. "The whole Irishry of rebels."
Milton.

IRITIS
I*ri"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Iris, and -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: An inflammation of the iris of the eye.

IRK
Irk, v. t. Etym: [OE. irken to tire, become tired; cf. Sw. yrka to
urge, enforce, press, or G. ekel disgust, MHG. erklich disgusting;
perh. akin to L. urgere to urge, E. urge.]

Defn: To weary; to give pain; to annoy; -- used only impersonally at
present.
To see this sight, it irks my very soul. Shak.
It irketh him to be here. M. Arnold.

IRKSOME
Irk"some, a.

1. Wearisome; tedious; disagreeable or troublesome by reason of long
continuance or repetition; as, irksome hours; irksome tasks.
For not to irksome toil, but to delight, He made us. Milton.

2. Weary; vexed; uneasy. [Obs.]
Let us therefore learn not to be irksome when God layeth his cross
upon us. Latimer.

Syn.
 -- Wearisome; tedious; tiresome; vexatious; burdensome.
 -- Irksome, Wearisome, Tedious. These epithets describe things which
give pain or disgust. Irksome is applied to something which disgusts
by its nature or quality; as, an irksome task. Wearisome denotes that
which wearies or wears us out by severe labor; as, wearisome
employment. Tedious is applied to something which tires us out by the
length of time occupied in its performance; as, a tedious speech.
Wearisome nights are appointed to me. Job vii. 3.
Pity only on fresh objects stays, But with the tedious sight of woes
decays. Dryden.
-- Irk"some*ly, adv.
 -- Irk"some*ness, n.

IRON
I"ron, n. Etym: [OE. iren, AS. iren, isen, isern; akin to D. ijzer,
OS. isarn, OHG. isarn, isan, G. eisen, Icel. isarn, jarn, Sw. & Dan.
jern, and perh. to E. ice; cf. Ir. iarann, W. haiarn, Armor. houarn.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: The most common and most useful metallic element, being of
almost universal occurrence, usually in the form of an oxide (as
hematite, magnetite, etc.), or a hydrous oxide (as limonite, turgite,
etc.). It is reduced on an enormous scale in three principal forms;
viz., cast iron, steel, and wrought iron. Iron usually appears dark
brown, from oxidation or impurity, but when pure, or an fresh
surface, is a gray or white metal. It is easily oxidized (rusted) by
moisture, and is attacked by many corrosive agents. Symbol Fe (Latin
Ferrum). Atomic weight 55.9. Specific gravity, pure iron, 7.86; cast
iron, 7.1. In magnetic properties, it is superior to all other
substances.

Note: The value of iron is largely due to the facility with which it
can be worked. Thus, when heated it is malleable and ductile, and can
be easily welded and forged at a high temperature. As cast iron, it
is easily fusible; as steel, is very tough, and (when tempered) very
hard and elastic. Chemically, iron is grouped with cobalt and nickel.
Steel is a variety of iron containing more carbon than wrought iron,
but less that cast iron. It is made either from wrought iron, by
roasting in a packing of carbon (cementation) or from cast iron, by
burning off the impurities in a Bessemer converter (then called
Bessemer steel), or directly from the iron ore (as in the Siemens
rotatory and generating furnace).

2. An instrument or utensil made of iron; -- chiefly in composition;
as, a flatiron, a smoothing iron, etc.
My young soldier, put up your iron. Shak.

3. pl.

Defn: Fetters; chains; handcuffs; manacles.
Four of the sufferers were left to rot in irons. Macaulay.

4. Strength; power; firmness; inflexibility; as, to rule with a rod
of iron. Bar iron. See Wrought iron (below).
 -- Bog iron, bog ore; limonite. See Bog ore, under Bog.
 -- Cast iron (Metal.), an impure variety of iron, containing from
three to six percent of carbon, part of which is united with a part
of the iron, as a carbide, and the rest is uncombined, as graphite.
It there is little free carbon, the product is white iron; if much of
the carbon has separated as graphite, it is called gray iron. See
also Cast iron, in the Vocabulary.
 -- Fire irons. See under Fire, n.
 -- Gray irons. See under Fire, n.
 -- Gray iron. See Cast iron (above).
 -- It irons (Naut.), said of a sailing vessel, when, in tacking, she
comes up head to the wind and will not fill away on either tack.
 -- Magnetic iron. See Magnetite.
 -- Malleable iron (Metal.), iron sufficiently pure or soft to be
capable of extension under the hammer; also, specif., a kind of iron
produced by removing a portion of the carbon or other impurities from
cast iron, rendering it less brittle, and to some extent malleable.
 -- Meteoric iron (Chem.), iron forming a large, and often the chief,
ingredient of meteorites. It invariably contains a small amount of
nickel and cobalt. Cf. Meteorite.
 -- Pig iron, the form in which cast iron is made at the blast
furnace, being run into molds, called pigs.
 -- Reduced iron. See under Reduced.
 -- Specular iron. See Hematite.
 -- Too many irons in the fire, too many objects requiring the
attention at once.
 -- White iron. See Cast iron (above).
 -- Wrought iron (Metal.), the purest form of iron commonly known in
the arts, containing only about half of one per cent of carbon. It is
made either directly from the ore, as in the Catalan forge or
bloomery, or by purifying (puddling) cast iron in a reverberatory
furnace or refinery. It is tough, malleable, and ductile. When formed
into bars, it is called bar iron.

IRON
I"ron, a. Etym: [AS. iren, isen. See Iron, n.]

1. Of, or made of iron; consisting of iron; as, an iron bar, dust.

2. Resembling iron in color; as, iron blackness.

3. Like iron in hardness, strength, impenetrability, power of
endurance, insensibility, etc.; as:
(a) Rude; hard; harsh; severe.
Iron years of wars and dangers. Rowe.
Jove crushed the nations with an iron rod. Pope.

(b) Firm; robust; enduring; as, an iron constitution.
(c) Inflexible; unrelenting; as, an iron will.
(d) Not to be broken; holding or binding fast; tenacious. "Him
death's iron sleep oppressed." Philips.

Note: Iron is often used in composition, denoting made of iron,
relating to iron, of or with iron; producing iron, etc.; resembling
iron, literally or figuratively, in some of its properties or
characteristics; as, iron-shod, iron-sheathed, iron-fisted, iron-
framed, iron-handed, iron-hearted, iron foundry or iron-foundry. Iron
age. (a) (Myth.) The age following the golden, silver, and bronze
ages, and characterized by a general degeneration of talent and
virtue, and of literary excellence. In Roman literature the Iron Age
is commonly regarded as beginning after the taking of Rome by the
Goths, A. D. 410. (b) (Archæol.) That stage in the development of any
people characterized by the use of iron implements in the place of
the more cumbrous stone and bronze.
 -- Iron cement, a cement for joints, composed of cast-iron borings
or filings, sal ammoniac, etc.
 -- Iron clay (Min.), a yellowish clay containing a large proportion
of an ore of iron.
 -- Iron cross, a Prussian order of military merit; also, the
decoration of the order.
 -- Iron crown, a golden crown set with jewels, belonging originally
to the Lombard kings, and indicating the dominion of Italy. It was so
called from containing a circle said to have been forged from one of
the nails in the cross of Christ.
 -- Iron flint (Min.), an opaque, flintlike, ferruginous variety of
quartz.
 -- Iron founder, a maker of iron castings.
 -- Iron foundry, the place where iron castings are made.
 -- Iron furnace, a furnace for reducing iron from the ore, or for
melting iron for castings, etc.; a forge; a reverberatory; a
bloomery.
 -- Iron glance (Min.), hematite.
 -- Iron hat, a headpiece of iron or steel, shaped like a hat with a
broad brim, and used as armor during the Middle Ages.
 -- Iron horse, a locomotive engine. [Colloq.] -- Iron liquor, a
solution of an iron salt, used as a mordant by dyers.
 -- Iron man (Cotton Manuf.), a name for the self-acting spinning
mule.
 -- Iron mold or mould, a yellow spot on cloth stained by rusty iron.
 -- Iron ore (Min.), any native compound of iron from which the metal
may be profitably extracted. The principal ores are magnetite,
hematite, siderite, limonite, Göthite, turgite, and the bog and clay
iron ores.
 -- Iron pyrites (Min.), common pyrites, or pyrite. See Pyrites.
 -- Iron sand, an iron ore in grains, usually the magnetic iron ore,
formerly used to sand paper after writing.
 -- Iron scale, the thin film which on the surface of wrought iron in
the process of forging. It consists essentially of the magnetic oxide
of iron, Fe3O4.
 -- Iron works, a furnace where iron is smelted, or a forge, rolling
mill, or foundry, where it is made into heavy work, such as shafting,
rails, cannon, merchant bar, etc.

IRON
I"ron, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ironed; p. pr. & vb. n. Ironing.]

1. To smooth with an instrument of iron; especially, to smooth, as
cloth, with a heated flatiron; -- sometimes used with out.

2. To shackle with irons; to fetter or handcuff. "Ironed like a
malefactor." Sir W. Scott.

3. To furnish or arm with iron; as, to iron a wagon.

IRONBARK TREE
I"ron*bark` tree`. (Bot.)

Defn: The Australian Eucalyptus Sideroxylon, used largely by
carpenters and shipbuilders; -- called also ironwood.

IRONBOUND
I"ron*bound`, a.

1. Bound as with iron; rugged; as, an ironbound coast.

2. Rigid; unyielding; as, ironbound traditions.

IRON-CASED
I"ron-cased`, a.

Defn: Cased or covered with iron, as a vessel; ironclad.

IRONCLAD
I"ron*clad`, a.

1. Clad in iron; protected or covered with iron, as a vessel for
naval warfare.

2. Rigorous; severe; exacting; as, an ironclad oath or pledge.
[Colloq.]

IRONCLAD
I"ron*clad`, n.

Defn: A naval vessel having the parts above water covered and
protected by iron or steel usually in large plates closely joined and
made sufficiently thick and strong to resist heavy shot.

IRONER
I"ron*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, irons.

IRON-FISTED
I"ron-fist`ed, a.

Defn: Closefisted; stingy; mean.

IRON-GRAY
I"ron-gray`, a.

Defn: Of a gray color, somewhat resembling that of iron freshly
broken.
 -- n.

Defn: An iron-gray color; also, a horse of this color.

IRONHEADS
I"ron*heads`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A European composite herb (Centaurea nigra); -- so called from
the resemblance of its knobbed head to an iron ball fixed on a long
handle. Dr. Prior.

IRON-HEARTED
I"ron-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Hard-hearted; unfeeling; cruel; as, an iron-hearted master.
Cowper.

IRONIC
I*ron"ic, a.

Defn: Ironical. Sir T. Herbert.

IRONICAL
I*ron"ic*al, a. Etym: [LL. ironicus, Gr. ironique. See Irony.]

1. Pertaining to irony; containing, expressing, or characterized by,
irony; as, an ironical remark.

2. Addicted to the use of irony; given to irony.
 -- I*ron"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- I*ron"ic*al*ness, n.

IRONING
I"ron*ing, n.

1. The act or process of smoothing, as clothes, with hot flatirons.

2. The clothes ironed. Ironing board, a flat board, upon which
clothes are laid being ironed.

IRONISH
I"ron*ish, a.

Defn: Resembling iron, as in taste. Wood.

IRONIST
I"ron*ist, n.

Defn: One who uses irony.

IRONMASTER
I"ron*mas`ter, n.

Defn: A manufacturer of iron, or large dealer therein. Bp. Hurd.

IRONMONGER
I"ron*mon`ger, n.

Defn: A dealer in iron or hardware.

IRONMONGERY
I"ron*mon`ger*y, n.

Defn: Hardware; a general name for all articles made of iron. Gwilt.

IRON-SICK
I"ron-sick`, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Having the ironwork loose or corroded; -- said of a ship when
her bolts and nails are so eaten with rust that she has become leaky.

IRON-SIDED
I"ron-sid`ed, a.

Defn: Having iron sides, or very firm sides.

IRONSIDES
I"ron*sides", n.

Defn: A cuirassier or cuirassiers; also, hardy veteran soldiers; --
applied specifically to Cromwell's cavalry.

IRONSMITH
I"ron*smith`, n.

1. A worker in iron; one who makes and repairs utensils of iron; a
blacksmith.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An East Indian barbet (Megalaima faber), inhabiting the Island
of Hainan. The name alludes to its note, which resembles the sounds
made by a smith.

IRONSTONE
I"ron*stone`, n.

Defn: A hard, earthy ore of iron. Clay ironstone. See under Clay.
 -- Ironstone china, a hard white pottery, first made in England
during the 18th century.

IRONWARE
I"ron*ware`, n.

Defn: Articles made of iron, as household utensils, tools, and the
like.

IRONWEED
I"ron*weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A tall weed with purplish flowers (Vernonia Noveboracensis).
The name is also applied to other plants of the same genus.

IRONWOOD
I"ron*wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A tree unusually hard, strong, or heavy wood.

Note: In the United States, the hornbeam and the hop hornbeam are so
called; also the Olneya Tesota, a small tree of Arizona; in the West
Indies, the Erythroxylon areolatum, and several other unrelated
trees; in China, the Metrosideros vera; in India, the Mesua ferrea,
and two species of Inga; in Australia, the Eucalyptus Sideroxylon,
and in many countries, species of Sideroxylon and Diospyros, and many
other trees.

IRONWORK
I"ron*work`, n.

Defn: Anything made of iron; -- a general name of such parts or
pieces of a building, vessel, carriage, etc., as consist of iron.

IRON WORKS
I"ron works`

Defn: . See under Iron, a.

IRONWORT
I"ron*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An herb of the Mint family (Sideritis), supposed to heal sword
cuts; also, a species of Galeopsis.

IRONY
I"ron*y, a. Etym: [From Iron.]

1. Made or consisting of iron; partaking of iron; iron; as, irony
chains; irony particles. [R.] Woodward.

2. Resembling iron taste, hardness, or other physical property.

IRONY
I"ron*y, n.Etym: [L. ironia, Gr. word: cf. F. ironie.]

1. Dissimulation; ignorance feigned for the purpose of confounding or
provoking an antagonist.

2. A sort of humor, ridicule, or light sarcasm, which adopts a mode
of speech the meaning of which is contrary to the literal sense of
the words.

IROQUOIAN
Ir`o*quoi"an (ir`o*kwoi"an), a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, one of the principal
linguistic stocks of the North American Indians. The territory of the
northern Iroquoian tribes, of whom the Five Nations, or Iroquois
proper, were the chief, extended from the shores of the St. Lawrence
and of Lakes Huron, Ontario, and Erie south, through eastern
Pennsylvania, to Maryland; that of the southern tribes, of whom the
Cherokees were chief, formed part of Virginia, the Carolinas,
Georgia, Tennessee, and Kentucky. All of the tribes were
agricultural, and they were noted for large, communal houses,
palisaded towns, and ability to organize, as well as for skill in
war. --n.

Defn: An Indian of an Iroquoian tribe.

IROQUOIS
Ir`o*quois", n. sing. & pl. Etym: [F.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: A powerful and warlike confederacy of Indian tribes, formerly
inhabiting Central New York and constituting most of the Five
Nations. Also, any Indian of the Iroquois tribes.

IROUS
I"rous, a. Etym: [OF. iros, from ire. See Ire.]

Defn: Irascible; passionate. [Obs.] Chaucer.

IRP; IRPE
Irp, Irpe, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A fantastic grimace or contortion of the body. [Obs.]
Smirks and irps and all affected humors. B. Jonson
.

IRP
Irp, a.

Defn: Making irps. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

IRRADIANCE; IRRADIANCY
Ir*ra"di*ance, Ir*ra"di*an*cy, n. Etym: [From Irradiant.]

1. The act of irradiating; emission of rays of light.

2. That which irradiates or is irradiated; luster; splendor;
irradiation; brilliancy. Milton.

IRRADIANT
Ir*ra"di*ant, a. Etym: [L. irradians, -antis, p. pr. See Irradiate.]

Defn: Irradiating or illuminating; as, the irradiant moon. Boyse.

IRRADIATE
Ir*ra"di*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Irradiated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Irradiating.] Etym: [L. irradiatus, p. p. of irradiate. See In- in,
and Radiate.]

1. To throw rays of light upon; to illuminate; to brighten; to adorn
with luster.
Thy smile irradiates yon blue fields. Sir W. Jones.

2. To enlighten intellectually; to illuminate; as, to irradiate the
mind. Bp. Bull.

3. To animate by heat or light. Sir M. Hale.

4. To radiate, shed, or diffuse.
A splendid fairradiating hospitality. H. James.

IRRADIATE
Ir*ra"di*ate, v. i.

Defn: To emit rays; to shine.

IRRADIATE
Ir*ra"di*ate, a. Etym: [L. irradiatus, p. p.]

Defn: Illuminated; irradiated. Mason.

IRRADIATION
Ir*ra`di*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. irradiation.]

1. Act of irradiating, or state of being irradiated.

2. Illumination; irradiance; brilliancy. Sir W. Scott.

3. Fig.: Mental light or illumination. Sir M. Hale.

4. (Opt.)

Defn: The apparent enlargement of a bright object seen upon a dark
ground, due to the fact that the portions of the retina around the
image are stimulated by the intense light; as when a dark spot on a
white ground appears smaller, or a white spot on a dark ground
larger, than it really is, esp. when a little out of focus.

IRRADICATE
Ir*rad"i*cate, v. t.

Defn: To root deeply. [R.]

IRRATIONAL
Ir*ra"tion*al, a. Etym: [L. irrationalis: cf. F. irrationnel. See In-
not, and Rational.]

1. Not rational; void of reason or understanding; as, brutes are
irrational animals.

2. Not according to reason; absurd; foolish.
It seemed utterly irrational any longer to maintain it. I. Taylor.

3. (Math.)

Defn: Not capable of being exactly expressed by an integral number,
or by a vulgar fraction; surd; -- said especially of roots. See Surd.

Syn.
 -- Absurd; foolish; preposterous; unreasonable; senseless. See
Absurd.

IRRATIONALITY
Ir*ra`tion*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being irrational. "Brutish
irrationaliity." South.

IRRATIONALLY
Ir*ra"tion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an irrational manner. Boyle.

IRRATIONALNESS
Ir*ra"tion*al*ness, n.

Defn: Irrationality.

IRREBUTTABLE
Ir`re*but"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being rebutted. Coleridge.

IRRECEPTIVE
Ir`re*cep"tive, a.

Defn: Not receiving; incapable of receiving.

IRRECLAIMABLE
Ir`re*claim"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being reclaimed. Addison.
 -- Ir`re*claim"a*bly, ad

IRRECOGNITION
Ir*rec`og*ni"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + recognition.]

Defn: A failure to recognize; absence of recognition. Lamb.

IRRECOGNIZABLE
Ir*rec"og*ni`za*ble, a.

Defn: Not recognizable. Carlyle.

IRRECONCILABILITY
Ir*rec`on*ci`la*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being irreconcilable;
irreconcilableness.

IRRECONCILABLE
Ir*rec"on*ci`la*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. ir- not + reconcilable: cf. F.
irréconciliable.]

Defn: Not reconcilable; implacable; incompatible; inconsistent;
disagreeing; as, irreconcilable enemies, statements.
 -- Ir*rec"on*ci`la*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ir*rec"on*ci`la*bly, adv.

IRRECONCILE
Ir*rec"on*cile`, v. t.

Defn: To prevent from being reconciled; to alienate or disaffect.
[Obs.]

IRRECONCILEMENT
Ir*rec"on*cile`ment, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being unreconciled; disagreement.

IRRECONCILIATION
Ir*rec`on*cil`i*a"tion, n.

Defn: Want of reconciliation; disagreement.

IRRECORDABLE
Ir`re*cord"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. ir-- not + record: cf. L.
irrecordabilis not to be remembered.]

Defn: Not fit or possible to be recorded.

IRRECOVERABLE
Ir`re*cov"er*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of being recovered, regained, or remedied;
irreparable; as, an irrecoverable loss, debt, or injury.
That which is past is gone and irrecoverable. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Irreparable; irretrievable; irremediable; unalterable; incurable;
hopeless.
 -- Ir`re*cov"er*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ir`re*cov"er*a*bly, adv.

IRRECUPERABLE
Ir`re*cu"per*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. irrecuperabilis: cf. OF.
irrecuperable. See In- not, and Recuperate.]

Defn: Irrecoverable.
 -- Ir`re*cu"per*a*bly, adv.

IRRECURED
Ir`re*cured", a.

Defn: Incurable. [Obs.]

IRRECUSABLE
Ir`re*cu"sa*ble, a. Etym: [L. irrecusabilis; pref. ir-- not +
recusabilis that should be rejected, fr. recusare to reject: cf. F.
irrécusable.]

Defn: Not liable to exception or rejection. Sir W. Hamilton.

IRREDEEMABILITY
Ir`re*deem`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being irredeemable; irredeemableness.

IRREDEEMABLE
Ir`re*deem"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not redeemable; that can not be redeemed; not payable in gold
or silver, as a bond; -- used especially of such government notes,
issued as currency, as are not convertible into coin at the pleasure
of the holder.
 -- Ir`re*deem"a*ble*ness, adv.

IRREDUCIBILITY
Ir`re*du`ci*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being irreducible.

IRREDUCIBLE
Ir`re*du"ci*ble, a.

1. Incapable of being reduced, or brought into a different state;
incapable of restoration to its proper or normal condition; as, an
irreducible hernia.

2. (Math.)

Defn: Incapable of being reduced to a simpler form of expression; as,
an irreducible formula. Irreducible case (Alg.), a particular case in
the solution of a cubic equation, in which the formula commonly
employed contains an imaginary quantity, and therefore fails in its
application.
 -- Ir`re*du"ci*ble*ness, n.
 -- -- Ir`re*du"ci*bly, adv.

IRREFLECTION
Ir`re*flec"tion, n.

Defn: Want of reflection.

IRREFLECTIVE
Ir`re*flect"ive, a.

Defn: Not reflective. De Quincey.

IRREFORMABLE
Ir`re*form"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being reformed; incorrigible. Joseph Cook.

IRREFRAGABILITY
Ir*ref`ra*ga*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being irrefragable; incapability of
being refuted.

IRREFRAGABLE
Ir*ref"ra*ga*ble, a. Etym: [F. irréfragable, L. irrefragabilis. See
Refragable.]

Defn: Not refragable; not to be gainsaid or denied; not to be refuted
or overthrown; unanswerable; incontestable; undeniable; as, an
irrefragable argument; irrefragable evidence.
 -- Ir*ref"ra*ga*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ir*ref"ra*ga*bly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Incontrovertible; unanswerable; indisputable; unquestionable;
incontestable; indubitable; undeniable; irrefutable.

IRREFRANGIBILITY
Ir`re*fran`gi*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being irrefrangible; irrefrangibleness.

IRREFRANGIBLE
Ir`re*fran"gi*ble, a.

Defn: Not refrangible; that can not be refracted in passing from one
medium to another.
 -- Ir`re*fran"gi*ble*ness, n.

IRREFUTABLE
Ir`re*fut"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. irrefutabilis: cf. F. irréfutable. See
Refute.]

Defn: Incapable of being refuted or disproved; indisputable.
 -- Ir`re*fut"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ir`re*fut"a*bly, adv.

IRREGENERACY
Ir`re*gen"er*a*cy, n.

Defn: Unregeneracy.

IRREGENERATION
Ir`re*gen`er*a"tion, n.

Defn: An unregenerate state. [Obs.]

IRREGULAR
Ir*reg"u*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. ir- not + regular: cf. F. irrégulier.]

Defn: Not regular; not conforming to a law, method, or usage
recognized as the general rule; not according to common form; not
conformable to nature, to the rules of moral rectitude, or to
established principles; not normal; unnatural; immethodical;
unsymmetrical; erratic; no straight; not uniform; as, an irregular
line; an irregular figure; an irregular verse; an irregular
physician; an irregular proceeding; irregular motion; irregular
conduct, etc. Cf. Regular.
Mazes intricate, Eccentric, intervolved, yet regular Then most when
most irregular they seem. Milton.
Leading the men of Herefordshire to fight Against the irregular and
wild Glendower. Shak.
A flowery meadow through which a clear stream murmured in many
irregular meanders. Jones.

Syn.
 -- Immethodical; unsystematic; abnormal; unnatural; anomalous;
erratic; devious; crooked; eccentric; unsettled; uneven; variable;
changeable; mutable; desultory; disorderly; wild; immoderate;
intemperate; inordinate; vicious.

IRREGULAR
Ir*reg"u*lar, n.

Defn: One who is not regular; especially, a soldier not in regular
service.

IRREGULARIST
Ir*reg"u*lar*ist, n.

Defn: One who is irregular. Baxter.

IRREGULARITY
Ir*reg`u*lar"i*ty, n.; pl. Irregularities. Etym: [Cf. F.
irrégularité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being irregular; that which is
irregular.

IRREGULARLY
Ir*reg"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In an irregular manner.

IRREGULATE
Ir*reg"u*late, v. t.

Defn: To make irregular; to disorder. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

IRREGULOUS
Ir*reg"u*lous, a.

Defn: Lawless. [Obs.] Shak.

IRREJECTABLE
Ir`re*ject"a*ble, a.

Defn: That can not be rejected; irresistible. Boyle.

IRRELAPSABLE
Ir`re*laps"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not liable to relapse; secure. Dr. H. More.

IRRELATE
Ir`re*late, a.

Defn: Ir

IRRELATION
Ir`re*la"tion, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being irrelative; want of connection or
relation.

IRRELATIVE
Ir*rel"a*tive, a.

Defn: Not relative; without mutual relations; unconnected.
 -- Ir*rel"a*tive*ly, adv. Irrelative chords (Mus.), those having no
common tone.
 -- Irrelative repetition (Biol.), the multiplication of parts that
serve for a common purpose, but have no mutual dependence or
connection. Owen.

IRRELAVANCE
Ir*rel"a*vance, n.

Defn: Irrelevancy.

IRRELAVANCY
Ir*rel"a*van*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being irrelevant; as, the irrelevancy
of an argument.

IRRELAVANT
Ir*rel"a*vant, a.

Defn: Not relevant; not applicable or pertinent; not bearing upon or
serving to support; foreign; extraneous; as, testimony or arguments
irrelevant to a case.
 -- Ir*rel"a*vant*ly, adv.

IRRELIEVABLE
Ir`re*liev"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not admitting relief; incurable; hopeless.

IRRELIGION
Ir`re*li"gion, n. Etym: [L. irreligio: cf. F. irréligion. See In-
not, and Religion.]

Defn: The state of being irreligious; want of religion; impiety.

IRRELIGIONIST
Ir`re*li"gion*ist, n.

Defn: One who is irreligious.

IRRELIGIOUS
Ir`re*li"gious, a. Etym: [L. irreligiosus: cf. F. irréligieux.]

1. Destitute of religion; not controlled by religious motives or
principles; ungodly. Cf. Impiou.
Shame and reproach are generally the portion of the impious and
irreligious. South.

2. Indicating a want of religion; profane; wicked; as, irreligious
speech.

IRRELIGIOUSLY
Ir`re*li"gious*ly, adv.

Defn: In an irreligious manner.

IRRELIGIOUSNESS
Ir`re*li"gious*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being irreligious; ungodliness.

IRREMEABLE
Ir*re"me*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. irremeabilis; pref. ir- not + remeabilis
returning, fr. remeare: cf. F. irréméable. See Remeant.]

Defn: Admitting no return; as, an irremeable way. [Obs.] Dryden.

IRREMEDIABLE
Ir`re*me"di*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. irremediabilis: cf. F. irrémédiable.
See In- not, and Remediable.]

Defn: Not to be remedied, corrected, or redressed; incurable; as, an
irremediable disease or evil.

IRREMEDIABLENESS
Ir`re*me"di*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being irremediable.

IRREMEDIABLY
Ir`re*me"di*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner, or to a degree, that precludes remedy, cure, or
correction.

IRREMISSIBLE
Ir`re*mis"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. irremissibilis: cf. F. irrémissible.
See In- not, and Remissible.]

Defn: Not remissible; unpardonable; as, irremissible crimes. Burke.
 -- Ir`re*mis"si*ble, n.
 -- Ir`re*mis"si*bly, adv.

IRREMISSION
Ir`re*mis"sion, n.

Defn: Refusal of pardon.

IRREMISSIVE
Ir`re*mis"sive, a.

Defn: Not remitting; unforgiving.

IRREMITTABLE
Ir`re*mit"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of being remitted; irremissible. Holinshed.

IRREMOVABILITY
Ir`re*mov`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being irremovable; immovableness.

IRREMOVABLE
Ir`re*mov"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not removable; immovable; inflexible. Shak.
 -- Ir`re*mov"a*bly, adv.

IRREMOVAL
Ir`re*mov"al, n.

Defn: Absence of removal.

IRREMUNERABLE
Ir`re*mu"ner*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. irremunerabilis: cf. F.
irrémunérable. See Remunerate.]

Defn: Not remunerable; not capable of remuneration.

IRRENOWNED
Ir`re*nowned", a.

Defn: Not renowned. [Obs.]

IRREPARABILITY
Ir*rep`a*ra*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. irréparabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being irreparable; irreparableness.
Sterne.

IRREPARABLE
Ir*rep"a*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. irreparabilis: cf. F. irréparable. See
In- not, and Reparable.]

Defn: Not reparable; not capable of being repaired, recovered,
regained, or remedied; irretrievable; irremediable; as, an
irreparable breach; an irreparable loss. Shak.

IRREPARABLENESS
Ir*rep"a*ra*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being irreparable.

IRREPARABLY
Ir*rep"a*ra*bly, adv.

Defn: In an irreparable manner.

IRREPEALABILITY
Ir`re*peal`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being irrepealable.

IRREPEALABLE
Ir`re*peal"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not repealable; not capable of being repealed or revoked, as a
law.
 -- Ir`re*peal"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ir`re*peal"a*bly, adv.

IRREPENTANCE
Ir`re*pent"ance, n.

Defn: Want of repentance; impenitence. Bp. Montagu.

IRREPLEVIABLE; IRREPLEVISABLE
Ir`re*plev"i*a*ble, Ir`re*plev"i*sa*ble, a. (Law)

Defn: Not capable of being replevied.

IRREPREHENSIBLE
Ir*rep`re*hen"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. irreprehensibilis: cf. F.
irrépréhensible. See Reprehensible.]

Defn: Not reprehensible; blameless; innocent.
 -- Ir*rep`re*hen"si*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ir*rep`re*hen"si*bly, adv.

IRREPRESENTABLE
Ir*rep`re*sent"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of being represented or portrayed.

IRREPRESSIBLE
Ir`re*press"i*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of being repressed, restrained, or controlled; as,
irrepressible joy; an irrepressible conflict. W. H. Steward.

IRREPRESSIBLY
Ir`re*press"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner or to a degree that can not be repressed.

IRREPROACHABLE
Ir`re*proach"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. ir- not + reproachable: cf. F.
irréprochable.]

Defn: Not reproachable; above reproach; not deserving reproach;
blameless.
He [Berkely] erred, -- and who is free from error -- but his
intentions were irreproachable. Beattie.

IRREPROACHABLENESS
Ir`re*proach"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being irreproachable; integrity;
innocence.

IRREPROACHABLY
Ir`re*proach"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an irreproachable manner; blamelessly.

IRREPROVABLE
Ir`re*prov"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being justly reproved; irreproachable; blameless;
upright.
 -- Ir`re*prov"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ir`re*prov"a*bly, adv.

IRREPTITIOUS
Ir`rep*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. irrepere, irreptum, to creep in; pref.
ir- in + repere to creep.]

Defn: Surreptitious; spurious. [Obs.] Dr. Castell (1673).

IRREPUTABLE
Ir*rep"u*ta*ble, a.

Defn: Disreputable. [Obs.]

IRRESILIENT
Ir`re*sil"i*ent, a.

Defn: Not resilient; not recoiling or rebounding; inelastic.

IRRESISTANCE
Ir`re*sist"ance, n.

Defn: Nonresistance; passive submission.

IRRESISTIBILITY
Ir`re*sist`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. irrésistibilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being irrestible, irresistibleness.

IRRESISTIBLE
Ir`re*sist"i*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. ir- not + resistible: cf. F.
irrésistible.]

Defn: That can not be successfully resisted or opposed; superior to
opposition; resistless; overpowering; as, an irresistible attraction.
An irresistible law of our nature impels us to seek happiness. J. M.
Mason.

IRRESISTIBLENESS
Ir`re*sist"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being irrestible.

IRRESISTIBLY
Ir`re*sist"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an irrestible manner.

IRRESISTLESS
Ir`re*sist"less, a.

Defn: Irresistible. [Obs.] Glanvill.

IRRESOLUBLE
Ir*res"o*lu*ble, a. Etym: [L. irresolubilis: cf. F. irrésoluble. See
Resoluble, and cf. Irresolvable.]

1. Incapable of being dissolved or resolved into parts; insoluble.
Boyle.

2. Incapable of being relieved or assisted. [Obs.]
The second is in the irresoluble condition of our souls after a known
sin committed. Bp. Hall.

IRRESOLUBLENESS
Ir*res"o*lu*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being irresoluble; insolubility.

IRRESOLUTE
Ir*res"o*lute, a. Etym: [Pref. ir- not + resolute: cf. F. irrésolu,
L. irresolutus not loosened.]

Defn: Not resolute; not decided or determined; wavering; given to
doubt or irresolution.
Weak and irresolute is man. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Wavering; vacillating; undetermined; undecided; unsettled;
fickle; changeable; inconstant.
 -- Ir*res"o*lute*ly, adv.
 -- Ir*res"o*lute*ness, n.

IRRESOLUTION
Ir*res`o*lu"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. irrésolution.]

Defn: Want of resolution; want of decision in purpose; a fluctuation
of mind, as in doubt, or between hope and fear; irresoluteness;
indecision; vacillation.
Irresolution on the schemes of life which offer themselves to our
choice, and inconstancy in pursuing them, are the greatest causes of
all unhappiness. Addison.

IRRESOLVABILITY
Ir`re*solv`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being irresolvable; irresolvableness.

IRRESOLVABLE
Ir`re*solv"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. ir- not + resolvable. Cf.
Irresoluble.]

Defn: Incapable of being resolved; not separable into component
parts. Irresolvable nebulæ (Astron.), nebulæ of a cloudlike
appearance, which have not yet been resolved by the telescope into
stars. Sir W. Herschel.

IRRESOLVABLENESS
Ir`re*solv"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being irresolvable; irresolvability.

IRRESOLVEDLY
Ir`re*solv"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Without settled determination; in a hesitating manner;
doubtfully. [R.]

IRRESPECTIVE
Ir`re*spec"tive, a.

1. Without regard for conditions, circumstances, or consequences;
unbiased; independent; impartial; as, an irrespective judgment.

According to this doctrine, it must be resolved wholly into the
absolute, irrespective will of God. Rogers.

2. Disrespectful. [Obs.] Sir C. Cornwallis. Irrespective of,
regardless of; without regard to; as, irrespective of differences.

IRRESPECTIVELY
Ir`re*spec"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: Without regard to conditions; not making circumstances into
consideration.
Prosperity, considered absolutely and irrespectively, is better and
more desirable than adversity. South.

IRRESPIRABLE
Ir*res"pi*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. irrespirabilis: cf. F. irrespirable.
See Respirable.]

Defn: Unfit for respiration; not having the qualities necessary to
support animal life; as, irrespirable air.

IRRESPONSIBILITY
Ir`re*spon`si*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. irresponsabilité.]

Defn: Want of, or freedom from, responsibility or accountability.

IRRESPONSIBLE
Ir`re*spon"si*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. ir- not + responsible: cf. F.
irresponsable.]

1. Nor responsible; not liable or able to answer fro consequences;
innocent.

2. Not to be trusted; unreliable.

IRRESPONSIBLY
Ir`re*spon"si*bly, adv.

Defn: So as not to be responsible.

IRRESPONSIVE
Ir`re*spon"sive, a.

Defn: Not responsive; not able, ready, or inclined to respond.

IRRESUSCITABLE
Ir`re*sus"ci*ta*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being resuscitated or revived.
 -- Ir`re*sus"ci*ta*bly, adv.

IRRETENTION
Ir`re*ten"tion, n.

Defn: Want of retaining power; forgetfulness. De Quincey.

IRRETENTIVE
Ir`re*ten"tive, a.

Defn: Not retentive; as, an irretentive memory.

IRRETRACEABLE
Ir`re*trace"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being retraced; not retraceable.

IRRETRACTILE
Ir`re*tract"ile, a.

1. Not retractile.

2. Not tractile or ductile. [R.] Sir W. Hamilton.

IRRETRIEVABLE
Ir`re*triev"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not retrievable; irrecoverable; irreparable; as, an
irretrievable loss.

Syn.
 -- Irremediable; incurable; irrecoverable.

IRRETRIEVABLENESS
Ir`re*triev"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being irretrievable.

IRRETRIEVABLY
Ir`re*triev"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an irretrievable manner.

IRRETURNABLE
Ir`re*turn"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not to be returned.

IRREVEALABLE
Ir`re*veal"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being revealed.
 -- Ir`re*veal"a*bly, adv.

IRREVERENCE
Ir*rev"er*ence, n. Etym: [L. irreverentia: cf. F. irrévérence.]

Defn: The state or quality of being irreverent; want of proper
reverence; disregard of the authority and character of a superior.

IRREVEREND
Ir*rev"er*end, a.

Defn: Irreverent. [Obs.]
Immodest speech, or irreverend gesture. Strype.

IRREVERENT
Ir*rev"er*ent, a. Etym: [L. irreverens, -entis: cf. F. irrévérent.
See In- not, and Reverent.]

Defn: Not reverent; showing a want of reverence; expressive of a want
of veneration; as, an irreverent babbler; an irreverent jest.

IRREVERENTLY
Ir*rev"er*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an irreverent manner.

IRREVERSIBILITY
Ir`re*vers`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being irreversible; irreversibleness.

IRREVERSIBLE
Ir`re*vers"i*ble, a.

1. Incapable of being reversed or turned about or back; incapable of
being made to run backward; as, an irreversible engine.

2. Incapable of being reversed, recalled, repealed, or annulled; as,
an irreversible sentence or decree.
This rejection of the Jews, as it is not universal, so neither is it
final and irreversible. Jortin.

Syn.
 -- Irrevocable; irrepealable; unchangeable.

IRREVERSIBLENESS
Ir`re*vers"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being irreversible.

IRREVERSIBLE STEERING GEAR
Ir`re*vers"i*ble steering gear. (Mach.)

Defn: A steering gear, esp. for an automobile, not affected by the
road wheels, as when they strike an obstacle side ways, but easily
controlled by the hand wheel or steering lever.

IRREVERSIBLY
Ir`re*vers"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an irreversible manner.

IRREVOCABILITY
Ir*rev`o*ca*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. irrévocabilité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being irrevocable; irrevocableness.

IRREVOCABLE
Ir*rev"o*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. irrevocabilis: cf. F. irrévocable. See
In- not, and Revoke, and cf. Irrevocable.]

Defn: Incapable of being recalled or revoked; unchangeable;
irreversible; unalterable; as, an irrevocable promise or decree;
irrevocable fate.
Firm and irrevocable is my doom. Shak.
-- Ir*rev"o*ca*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ir*rev"o*ca*bly, adv.

IRREVOKABLE
Ir`re*vok"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. ir- not + revoke.]

Defn: Irrevocable. [R.]

IRREVOLUBLE
Ir*rev"o*lu*ble, a.

Defn: That has no finite period of revolution; not revolving. [R.]
The dateless and irrevocable circle of eternity. Milton.

IRRHETORICAL
Ir`rhe*tor"ic*al, a.

Defn: Not rethorical.

IRRIGATE
Ir"ri*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Irrigated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Irrigating.] Etym: [L. irrigatus, p. p. of irrigare to irrigate: ir-
in + rigare to water; prob. akin to E. rain. See Rain.]

1. To water; to wet; to moisten with running or dropping water; to
bedew.

2. (Agric.)

Defn: To water, as land, by causing a stream to flow upon, over, or
through it, as in artificial channels.

IRRIGATION
Ir`ri*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. irrigatio: cf. F. irrigation.]

Defn: The act or process of irrigating, or the state of being
irrigated; especially, the operation of causing water to flow over
lands, for nourishing plants.

IRRIGUOUS
Ir*rig"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. irriguus. See Irrigate.]

1. Watered; watery; moist; dewy. [Obs.]
The flowery lap Of some irriguous valley spreads her store. Milton.

2. Gently penetrating or pervading. [Obs.] J. Philips.

IRRISIBLE
Ir*ris"i*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. ir- not + risible. See Irrision.]

Defn: Not risible. [R.]

IRRISION
Ir*ri"sion, n. Etym: [L. irrisio, fr. irridere, irrisum. to laugh at;
pref. ir- in + ridere to laugh: cf. F. irrision.]

Defn: The act of laughing at another; derision.
This being spoken scepticè, or by way of irrision. Chapman.

IRRITABILITY
Ir`ri*ta*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. irritabilitas: cf. F. irritabilité.]

1. The state or quality of being irritable; quick excitability;
petulance; fretfulness; as, irritability of temper.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: A natural susceptibility, characteristic of all living
organisms, tissues, and cells, to the influence of certain stimuli,
response being manifested in a variety of ways, -- as that quality in
plants by which they exhibit motion under suitable stimulation; esp.,
the property which living muscle processes, of responding either to a
direct stimulus of its substance, or to the stimulating influence of
its nerve fibers, the response being indicated by a change of form,
or contraction; contractility.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A condition of morbid excitability of an organ or part of the
body; undue susceptibility to the influence of stimuli. See
Irritation, n., 3.

IRRITABLE
Ir"ri*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. irritabilis: cf. F. irritable. See
Irritate.]

1. Capable of being irriated.

2. Very susceptible of anger or passion; easily inflamed or
exasperated; as, an irritable temper.
Vicious, old, and irritable. Tennyson.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: Endowed with irritability; susceptible of irritation; capable
of being excited to action by the application of certain stimuli.

4. (Med.)

Defn: Susceptible of irritation; unduly sensitive to irritants or
stimuli. See Irritation, n., 3.

Syn.
 -- Excitable; irascible; touchy; fretful; peevish.

IRRITABLENESS
Ir"ri*ta*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Irritability.

IRRITABLY
Ir"ri*ta*bly, adv.

Defn: In an irritable manner.

IRRITANCY
Ir"ri*tan*cy, n. Etym: [From 1st Irritant.] (Scots Law)

Defn: The state or quality of being null and void; invalidity;
forfeiture. Burrill.

IRRITANCY
Ir"ri*tan*cy, n. Etym: [From 2d Irritant.]

Defn: The state o quality of being irritant or irritating.

IRRITANT
Ir"ri*tant, a. Etym: [LL. irritants, -antis, p. pr. of irritare to
make null, fr. L. irritus void; pref. ir- not + ratus established.]
(Scots Law)

Defn: Rendering null and void; conditionally invalidating.
The states elected Harry, Duke of Anjou, for their king, with this
clause irritant; that, if he did violate any part of his oath, the
people should owe him no allegiance. Hayward.

IRRITANT
Ir"ri*tant, a. Etym: [L. irritans, -antis, p. pr. of irritare: cf. F.
irritant. See Irritate to excite.]

Defn: Irritating; producing irritation or inflammation.

IRRITANT
Ir"ri*tant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. irritant.]

1. That which irritates or excites.

2. (Physiol. & Med.)

Defn: Any agent by which irritation is produced; as, a chemical
irritant; a mechanical or electrical irritant.

3. (Toxicology)

Defn: A poison that produces inflammation. Counter irritant. See
under Counter.
 -- Pure irritant (Toxicology), a poison that produces inflammation
without any corrosive action upon the tissues.

IRRITATE
Ir"ri*tate, v. t. Etym: [See 1 st Irritant.]

Defn: To render null and void. [R.] Abp. Bramhall.

IRRITATE
Ir"ri*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Irritated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Irritating.] Etym: [L. irritatus, p. p. of irritare. Of doubtful
origin.]

1. To increase the action or violence of; to heighten excitement in;
to intensify; to stimulate.
Cold maketh the spirits vigorous and irritateth them. Bacon.

2. To excite anger or displeasure in; to provoke; to tease; to
exasperate; to annoy; to vex; as, the insolence of a tyrant irritates
his subjects.
Dismiss the man, nor irritate the god: Prevent the rage of him who
reigns above. Pope.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: To produce irritation in; to stimulate; to cause to contract.
See Irritation, n., 2.

4. (Med.)

Defn: To make morbidly excitable, or oversensitive; to fret; as, the
skin is irritated by friction; to irritate a wound by a coarse
bandage.

Syn.
 -- To fret; inflame; excite; provoke; tease; vex; exasperate; anger;
incense; enrage.
 -- To Irritate, Provoke, Exasperate. These words express different
stages of excited or angry feeling. Irritate denotes an excitement of
quick and slightly angry feeling which is only momentary; as,
irritated by a hasty remark. To provoke implies the awakening of some
open expression of decided anger; as, a provoking insult. Exasperate
denotes a provoking of anger at something unendurable. Whatever comes
across our feelings irritates; whatever excites anger provokes;
whatever raises anger to a high point exasperates. "Susceptible and
nervous people are most easily irritated; proud people are quickly
provoked; hot and fiery people are soonest exasperated." Crabb.

IRRITATE
Ir"ri*tate, a.

Defn: Excited; heightened. [Obs.]

IRRITATION
Ir`ri*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. irritatio: cf. F. irritation.]

1. The act of irritating, or exciting, or the state of being
irritated; excitement; stimulation, usually of an undue and
uncomfortable kind; especially, excitement of anger or passion;
provocation; annoyance; anger.
The whole body of the arts and sciences composes one vast machinery
for the irritation and development of the human intellect. De
Quincey.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The act of exciting, or the condition of being excited to
action, by stimulation; -- as, the condition of an organ of sense,
when its nerve is affected by some external body; esp., the act of
exciting muscle fibers to contraction, by artificial stimulation; as,
the irritation of a motor nerve by electricity; also, the condition
of a muscle and nerve, under such stimulation.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A condition of morbid excitability or oversensitiveness of an
organ or part of the body; a state in which the application of
ordinary stimuli produces pain or excessive or vitiated action.

IRRITATIVE
Ir"ri*ta*tive, a.

1. Serving to excite or irritate; irritating; as, an irritative
agent.

2. Accompanied with, or produced by, increased action or irritation;
as, an irritative fever. E. Darwin.

IRRITATORY
Ir"ri*ta*to*ry, a.

Defn: Exciting; producing irritation; irritating. [R.] Hales.

IRRORATE
Ir"ro*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Irrorated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Irrorating.] Etym: [L. irroratus, p. p. of irrorare to bedew; pref.
ir- in + ros, roris, dew.]

Defn: To sprinkle or moisten with dew; to bedew. [Obs.]

IRRORATE
Ir"ro*rate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Covered with minute grains, appearing like fine sand.

IRRORATION
Ir`ro*ra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. irroration.]

Defn: The act of bedewing; the state of being moistened with de
[Obs.] Chambers.

IRROTATIONAL
Ir`ro*ta"tion*al, a. (Physics)

Defn: Not rotatory; passing from one point to another by a movement
other than rotation; -- said of the movement of parts of a liquid or
yielding mass. Sir W. Thomson.

IRRUBRICAL
Ir*ru"bric*al, a.

Defn: Contrary to the rubric; not rubrical.

IRRUGATE
Ir"ru*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. irrugatus, p. p. of irrugare to wrinkle.]

Defn: To wrinkle. [Obs.]

IRRUPTED
Ir*rupt"ed, a. Etym: [L. irruptus, p. p. of irrumpere to break in;
pref. ir- in + rumpere to break or burst. See Rupture.]

Defn: Broken with violence.

IRRUPTION
Ir*rup"tion, n. Etym: [L. irruptio: cf. F. irruption. See Irrupted.]

1. A bursting in; a sudden, violent rushing into a place; as,
irruptions of the sea.
Lest evil tidings, with too rude irruption Hitting thy aged ear,
should pierce too deep. Milton.

2. A sudden and violent inroad, or entrance of invaders; as, the
irruptions of the Goths into Italy. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Invasion; incursion; inroad. See Invasion.

IRRUPTIVE
Ir*rup"tive, a.

Defn: Rushing in or upon.

IRVINGITE
Ir"ving*ite, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: The common designation of one a sect founded by the Rev. Edward
Irving (about 1830), who call themselves the Catholic Apostolic
Church. They are highly ritualistic in worship, have an elaborate
hierarchy of apostles, prophets, etc., and look for the speedy coming
of Christ.

IS-
Is-

Defn: . See Iso-.

IS
Is, v. i. Etym: [AS. is; akin to G. & Goth. ist, L. est, Gr. asti. .
Cf. Am, Entity, Essence, Absent.]

Defn: The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the
indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man. See Be.

Note: In some varieties of the Northern dialect of Old English, is
was used for all persons of the singular.
For thy is I come, and eke Alain. Chaucer.
Aye is thou merry. Chaucer.

Note: The idiom of using the present for future events sure to happen
is a relic of Old English in which the present and future had the
same form; as, this year Christmas is on Friday.
To-morrow is the new moon. 1 Sam. xx. 5.

ISABEL; ISABEL COLOR
Is"a*bel, n., Is"a*bel col"or.Etym: [F. isabelle.]

Defn: See Isabella.

ISABELLA; ISABELLA COLOR
Is`a*bel"la, n., Is`a*bel"la col"or. Etym: [Said to be named from the
Spanish princess Isabella, daughter of king Philip II., in allusion
to the color assumed by her shift, which she wore without change from
1601 to 1604, in consequence of a vow made by her.]

Defn: A brownish yellow color.

ISABELLA GRAPE
Is`a*bel"la grape`. (Bot.)

Defn: A favorite sweet American grape of a purple color. See Fox
grape, under Fox.

ISABELLA MOTH
Is`a*bel"la moth`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A common American moth (Pyrrharctia isabella), of an isabella
color. The larva, called woolly bear and hedgehog caterpillar, is
densely covered with hairs, which are black at each end of the body,
and red in the middle part.

ISABELLINE
Is`a*bel"line, a.

Defn: Of an isabel or isabella color.

ISAGELOUS; ISAGEL
A. [Is- + Gr. Agelos Information.]

Defn: Containing the same information, as isagelous sentences. The
coded message and the original, though appearing entirely unlike, are
completely isagelous. Bacon The complementary strands have isagelous
sequences. J. D. Watson.
 -- Isagel
I*sag"e*lous (i*sâg"ê*lûs), a. Etym: [Is- + Gr. a`gelos information.]

Defn: Containing the same information, as isagelous sentences. "The
coded message and the original, though appearing entirely unlike, are
completely isagelous." Bacon "The complementary strands have
isagelous sequences." J. D. Watson.
 -- Is"a*gel n.

Defn: One of two or more objects containing the same information.

ISAGOGE
I"sa*goge, n. Etym: [L., fr. Fr.

Defn: An introduction. [Obs.] Harris.

ISAGOGIC; ISAGOGICAL
I"sa*gog"ic, I"sa*gog"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. isagogicus, Gr.

Defn: Introductory; especially, introductory to the study of
theology.

ISAGOGICS
I"sa*gog"ics, n. (Theol.)

Defn: That part of theological science directly preliminary to actual
exegesis, or interpretation of the Scriptures.

ISAGON
I"sa*gon, n. Etym: [Gr. isagone, a.] (Math.)

Defn: A figure or polygon whose angles are equal.

ISAPOSTOLIC
Is*ap`os*tol"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having equal, or almost equal, authority with the apostles of
their teachings.

ISATIC; ISATINIC
I*sat"ic, I`sa*tin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, isatin; as, isatic acid, which
is also called trioxindol.

ISATIDE
I"sa*tide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance obtained by the partial reduction
of isatin. [Written also isatyde.]

ISATIN
I"sa*tin, n. Etym: [See Isatis.] (Chem.)

Defn: An orange-red crystalline substance, C8H5NO2, obtained by the
oxidation of indigo blue. It is also produced from certain
derivatives of benzoic acid, and is one important source of
artificial indigo. [Written also, less properly, isatine.]

ISATIS
I"sa*tis, n. Etym: [L., a kind of plant, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbs, some species of which, especially the Isatis
tinctoria, yield a blue dye similar to indigo; woad.

ISATOGEN
I*sat"o*gen, n. Etym: [Isatin + -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A complex nitrogenous radical, C8H4NO2, regarded as the
essential residue of a series of compounds, related to isatin, which
easily pass by reduction to indigo blue.
 -- I*sat`o*gen"ic, a.

ISATROPIC
I`sa*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Is- + atropine.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from atropine,
and isomeric with cinnamic acid.

ISCHIAC
Is"chi*ac, a. (Anat.)

Defn: See Ischial.

ISCHIADIC
Is`chi*ad"ic, a. Etym: [L. ischiadicus, Gr. Sciatic.] (Anat.)

Defn: Ischial. [R.] Ischiadic passion or disease (Med.), a rheumatic
or neuralgic affection of some part about the hip joint; -- called
also sciatica.

ISCHIAL
Is"chi*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ischium or hip; ischiac; ischiadic;
ischiatic. Ischial callosity (Zoöl.), one of the patches of thickened
hairless, and often bright-colored skin, on the buttocks of many
apes, as the drill.

ISCHIATIC
Is`chi*at"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Ishial.

ISCHIOCAPSULAR
Is`chi*o*cap"su*lar a. Etym: [Ischium + capsular.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ischium and the capsule of the hip
joint; as, the ischiocapsular ligament.

ISCHIOCERITE
Is`chi*o*ce"rite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The third joint or the antennæ of the Crustacea.

ISCHION; ISCHIUM
Is"chi*on, Is"chi*um, n. Etym: [L., Gr.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The ventral and posterior of the three principal bones
composing either half of the pelvis; seat bone; the huckle bone.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the pleuræ of insects.

ISCHIOPODITE
Is`chi*op"o*dite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The third joint of the typical appendages of Crustacea.

ISCHIORECTAL
Is`chi*o*rec"tal, a. Etym: [Ischium + rectal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the region between the rectum and ishial
tuberosity.

ISCHURETIC
Is`chu*ret"ic, a.

Defn: Having the quality of relieving ischury.
 -- n.

Defn: An ischuretic medicine.

ISCHURY
Is"chu*ry, n. Etym: [L. ischuria, Gr. ischurie.] (Med.)

Defn: A retention or suppression of urine.

-ISE
-ise

Defn: . See -ize.

ISENTROPIC
I`sen*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Is- + entropy + -ic.] (Physics)

Defn: Having equal entropy. Isentropic lines, lines which pass
through points having equal entropy.

ISETHIONIC
I*seth`i*on"ic, a. Etym: [Is- + ethionic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid,
HO.C2H4.SO3H, obtained as an oily or crystalline substance, by the
action of sulphur trioxide on alcohol or ether. It is derivative of
sulphuric acid.

-ISH
-ish. Etym: [AS. -isc; akin to G. -isch, OHG. -isc, Goth. & Dan. -
isk, Gr. -esque.]

Defn: A suffix used to from adjectives from nouns and from
adjectives. It denotes relation, resemblance, similarity, and
sometimes has a diminutive force; as, selfish, boyish, brutish;
whitish, somewhat white.

-ISH
-ish. Etym: [OE. -issen, fr. F. -is, -iss- (found in the present
particle, etc., of certain verbs, as finir to finish, fleurir to
flourish), corresponding to L. -escere, an inchoative ending.]

Defn: A verb ending, originally appearing in certain verbs of French
origin; as, abolish, cherish, finish, furnish, garnish, impoverish.

ISHMAELITE
Ish"ma*el*ite, n.

1. A descendant of Ishmael (the son of Abraham and Hagar), of whom it
was said, "His hand will be against every man, and every man's hand
against him." Gen. xvi. 12.

2. One at enmity with society; a wanderer; a vagabond; an outcast.
Thackeray.

3. See Ismaelian.

ISHMAELITISH
Ish"ma*el*i`tish, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an Ishmaelite or the
Ishmaelites.

ISIAC
I"si*ac, a. Etym: [L. Isiacus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the goddess Isis; as, Isiac mysteries.

ISICLE
I"si*cle, n.

Defn: A icicle. [Obs.]

ISIDORIAN
Is`i*do"ri*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining, or ascribed, to Isidore; as, the Isidorian
decretals, a spurious collection of decretals published in the ninth
century.

ISINGLASS
I"sin*glass, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupted fr. D. huizenblas (akin to G.
hausenblase), lit., bladder of the huso, or large sturgeon; huizen
sturgeon + blas bladder. Cf. Bladder, Blast a gust of wind.]

1. A semitransparent, whitish, and very pure from of gelatin, chiefly
prepared from the sounds or air bladders of various species of
sturgeons (as the Acipenser huso) found in the of Western Russia. It
used for making jellies, as a clarifier, etc. Cheaper forms of
gelatin are not unfrequently so called. Called also fish glue.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A popular name for mica, especially when in thin sheets.

ISIS
I"sis, n. Etym: [L., the goddess Isis, fr. Gr.

1. (Myth.)

Defn: The principal goddess worshiped by the Egyptians. She was
regarded as the mother of Horus, and the sister and wife of Osiris.
The Egyptians adored her as the goddess of fecundity, and as the
great benefactress of their country, who instructed their ancestors
in the art of agriculture.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any coral of the genus Isis, or family Isidæ, composed of
joints of white, stony coral, alternating with flexible, horny
joints. See Gorgoniacea.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the asteroids.

ISLAM
Is"lam, n. Etym: [Ar. islam obedience to the will of God, submission,
humbling one's self, resigning one's self to the divine disposal. Cf.
Moslem.]

1. The religion of the Mohammedans; Mohammedanism; Islamism. Their
formula of faith is: There is no God but Allah, and Mohammed is his
prophet.

2. The whole body of Mohammedans, or the countries which they occupy.

ISLAMISM
Is"lam*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. islamisme.]

Defn: The faith, doctrines, or religious system of the Mohammedans;
Mohammedanism; Islam.

ISLAMITE
Is"lam*ite, n.

Defn: A Mohammedan.

ISLAMITIC
Is`lam*it"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Islam; Mohammedan.

ISLAMIZE
Is"lam*ize, v. i. & t. [imp. & p. p. Islamized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Islamizing.]

Defn: To conform, or cause to conform, to the religion of Islam.

ISLAND
Is"land, n. Etym: [OE. iland, yland, AS. igland, , ; ig, , island +
land, lond, land. AS. ig, , is akin to AS. eá water, river, OHG. , G.
au meadow, Icel. ey island, Dan. & Sw. ö, Goth. ahwa a stream, water,
L. aqua water. The s is due to confusion with isle. Cf. Ait, Eyot,
Ewer, Aquatic.]

1. A tract of land surrounded by water, and smaller than a continent.
Cf. Continent.

2. Anything regarded as resembling an island; as, an island of ice.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Isle, n., 2. Islands of the blessed (Myth.), islands
supposed to lie in the Western Ocean, where the favorites of the gods
are conveyed at death, and dwell in everlasting joy.

ISLAND
Is"land, v. t.

1. To cause to become or to resemble an island; to make an island or
islands of; to isle. Shelley.

2. To furnish with an island or with islands; as, to island the deep.
Southey.

ISLANDER
Is"land*er, n.

Defn: An inhabitant of an island.

ISLANDY
Is"land*y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to islands; full of islands. Cotgrave.

ISLE
Isle, n. Etym: [Obs.]

Defn: See Aisle.

ISLE
Isle, n. Etym: [OF. isle, F. île, L. insula; cf. Lith. sala. Cf.
Insulate.]

1. An island. [Poetic]
Imperial rule of all the seagirt isles. Milton.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spot within another of a different color, as upon the wings
of some insects.

ISLE
Isle, v. t.

Defn: To cause to become an island, or like an island; to surround or
encompass; to island. [Poetic]
Isled in sudden seas of light. Tennyson.

ISLET
Is"let, n. Etym: [OF. islette (cf. F. îlot), dim. of isle.]

Defn: A little island.

-ISM
-ism. Etym: [F. -isme, or L. -ismus, Gr.

Defn: A suffix indicating an act, a process, the result of an act or
a process, a state; also, a characteristic (as a theory, doctrine,
idiom, etc.); as, baptism, galvanism, organism, hypnotism, socialism,
sensualism, Anglicism.

ISM
Ism, n. Etym: [See ism, above.]

Defn: A doctrine or theory; especially, a wild or visionary theory.
E. Everett.
The world grew light-headed, and forth came a spawn of isms which no
man can number. S. G. Goodrich.

ISMAELIAN; ISMAELITE
Is`ma*e"li*an, Is"ma*el*ite, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: One of a sect of Mohammedans who favored the pretensions of the
family of Mohammed ben Ismael, of the house Ali.

ISO-; IS-
I"so-, Is-.Etym: [Gr. 'i`sos equal.]

Defn: A prefix or combining form, indicating identity, or equality;
the same numerical value; as in isopod, isomorphous, isochromatic.
Specif.:
(a) (Chem.) Applied to certain compounds having the same composition
but different properties; as in isocyanic.
(b) (Organic Chem.) Applied to compounds of certain isomeric series
in whose structure one carbon atom, at least, is connected with three
other carbon atoms; -- contrasted with neo- and normal; as in
isoparaffine; isopentane.

ISOBAR
I"so*bar, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting or marking places upon the surface of the
earth where height of the barometer reduced to sea level is the same
either at a given time, or for a certain period (mean height), as for
a year; an isopiestic line. [Written also isobare.]

ISOBAR
I"so*bar, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being equal in weight, especially in
atmospheric pressure. Also, the theory, method, or application of
isobaric science.

ISOBARIC
I`so*bar"ic, a. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: Denoting equal pressure; as, an isobaric line; specifically, of
or pertaining to isobars.

ISOBARISM
I"so*bar*ism, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being equal in weight, especially in
atmospheric pressure. Also, the theory, method, or application of
isobaric science.

ISOBAROMETRIC
I`so*bar`o*met"ric, a. Etym: [Iso + barometric.] (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: Indicating equal barometric pressure.

ISOBATHYTHERM
I`so*bath"y*therm, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting the points on the surface of the earth where
a certain temperature is found at the same depth.

ISOBATHYTHERMIC
I`so*bath"y*ther"mic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an isobathytherm; possessing or indicating
the same temperature at the same depth.

ISOBRONT
I"so*bront (i"so*bront), n.  [Iso- + Gr. bronth` thunder.] (Meteor.)

Defn: An imaginary line, or a line on a chart, marking the
simultaneous development of a thunderstorm, as noted by observing the
time when the thunder is heard at different places.

ISOCEPHALISM
I`so*ceph"a*lism, n. Etym: [From Gr. Iso-, and Cephalon.] (Art)

Defn: A peculiarity in the design of bas-relief by which the heads of
human figures are kept at the same height from the ground, whether
the personages are seated, standing, or mounted on horseback; --
called also isokephaleia.

ISOCHASM
I"so*chasm, n. Etym: [Iso- + chasm.] (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting places on the earth's surface at which there
is the same mean frequency of auroras.

ISOCHASMIC
I`so*chas"mic, a.

Defn: Indicating equal auroral display; as, an isochasmic line.

ISOCHEIM
I"so*cheim, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting places on the earth having the same mean
winter temperature. Cf. Isothere.

ISOCHEIMAL; ISOCHIMAL
I`so*chei"mal, I`so*chi"mal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, having the nature of, or making, isocheims; as,
an isocheimal line; an isocheimal chart.

ISOCHEIMENAL; ISOCHIMENAL
I`so*chei"me*nal, I`so*chi"me*nal a.

Defn: The same as Isocheimal.

ISOCHEIMIC
I`so*chei"mic, a.

Defn: The same as Isocheimal.

ISOCHIMENE
I`so*chi"mene, n.

Defn: The same as Isocheim.

ISOCHOR
I"so*chor, n.  [Iso- + Gr. xhw`ra space.] (Physics)

Defn: A line upon a thermodynamic diagram so drawn as to represent
the pressures corresponding to changes of temperature when the volume
of the gas operated on is constant. -- I`so*chor"ic (#), a.

ISOCHROMATIC
I`so*chro*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + chromatic.] (Opt.)

Defn: Having the same color; connecting parts having the same color,
as lines drawn through certain points in experiments on the chromatic
effects of polarized light in crystals.

ISOCHRONAL
I*soch"ro*nal, a. Etym: [See Isochronous.]

Defn: Uniform in time; of equal time; performed in equal times;
recurring at regular intervals; isochronal vibrations or
oscillations.

ISOCHRONIC
I`so*chron"ic, a.

Defn: Isochronal.

ISOCHRONISM
I*soch"ro*nism, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being isochronous.

ISOCHRONIZE
I*soch"ro*nize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -nized; p. pr. & vb. n. -
nizing.] [See Isochronous.]

Defn: To make, or tend to make (the motion of a moving body), uniform
in rate of rotation, or in frequency of vibration.

ISOCHRONON
I*soch"ro*non, n. Etym: [NL. See Isochronous.]

Defn: A clock that is designed to keep very accurate time.

ISOCHRONOUS
I*soch"ro*nous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Same as Isochronal.

ISOCHROOUS
I*soch"ro*ous, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr.

Defn: Having the same tint or color throughout; uniformly or evenly
colored.

ISOCLINAL; ISOCLINIC
I`so*cli"nal, I`so*clin"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or indicating, equality of inclination or
dip; having equal inclination or dip. Isoclinal lines (Magnetism),
lines on the earth's surface connecting places at which a dipping
needle indicates the same inclination or dip.

ISOCRYMAL
I`so*cry"mal, a. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: Pertaining to, having the nature of, or illustrating, an
isocryme; as, an isocrymal line; an isocrymal chart.

ISOCRYME
I"so*cryme, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting points on the earth's surface having the same
mean temperature in the coldest month of the year.

ISOCRYMIC
I`so*crym"ic, a.

Defn: Isocrymal.

ISOCYANIC
I`so*cy*an"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + cyanic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Designating an acid isomeric with cyanic acid. Isocyanic acid,
an acid metameric with cyanic acid, and resembling it in its salts.
It is obtained as a colorless, mobile, unstable liquid by the heating
cyanuric acid. Called technically carbimide.

ISOCYANURIC
I`so*cy`a*nu"ric, a. Etym: [Iso- + cyanuric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, an acid isomeric with cyanuric
acid, and called also fulminuric acid. See under Fulminuric.

ISODIABATIC
I`so*di`a*bat"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Pertaining to the reception or the giving out of equal
quantities of heat by a substance. Rankine. Isodiabatic lines or
curves, a pair of lines or curves exhibiting, on a diagram of energy,
the law of variation of the pressure and density of a fluid, the one
during the lowering, and the other during the raising, of its
temperature, when the quantity of heat given out by the fluid during
any given stage of the one process is equal to the quantity received
during the corresponding stage of the other. Such lines are said to
be isodiabatic with respect to each other. Compare Adiabatic.

ISODIAMETRIC
I`so*di`a*met"ric, a. Etym: [Iso- + diametric.]

1. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Developed alike in the directions of the several lateral axes;
-- said of crystals of both the tetragonal and hexagonal systems.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the several diameters nearly equal; -- said of the cells
of ordinary parenchyma.

ISODIMORPHIC
I`so*di*mor"phic, a. Etym: [Iso- + dimorphic.]

Defn: Isodimorphous.

ISODIMORPHISM
I`so*di*mor"phism, n.

Defn: Isomorphism between the two forms severally of two dimorphous
substances.

ISODIMORPHOUS
I`so*di*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Iso- + dimorphous.]

Defn: Having the quality of isodimorphism.

ISODROME
I"so*drome, n.  [Iso- + Gr.  course.] (Nav.)

Defn: A method of moving a fleet from one formation to another, the
direction usually being changed eight points (90º), by means of paths
of equal length for each ship. It is prohibited in the United States
navy.

ISODULCITE
I`so*dul"cite, n. Etym: [Iso- + dulcite.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, sugarlike substance, obtained by the
decomposition of certain glucosides, and intermediate in nature
between the hexacid alcohols (ductile, mannite, etc.) and the
glucoses.

ISODYNAMIC
I`so*dy*nam"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + dynamic.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, having, or denoting, equality of force.
Isodynamic foods (Physiol.), those foods that produce a similar
amount of heat.
 -- Isodynamic lines (Magnetism), lines on the earth's surface
connecting places at which the magnetic intensity is the same.

ISODYNAMOUS
I`so*dy"na*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. Isodynamic.]

Defn: Of equal force or size.

ISOGEOTHERM
I`so*ge"o*therm, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. gh^ the earth + qe`rmh heat.]
(Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line or curved surface passing beneath the earth's surface
through points having the same mean temperature.

ISOGEOTHERMAL; ISOGEOTHERMIC
I`so*ge`o*ther"mal, I`so*ge`o*ther"mic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, having the nature of, or marking, isogeotherms;
as, an isogeothermal line or surface; as isogeothermal chart.
 -- n.

Defn: An isogeotherm.

ISOGONIC
I`so*gon"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to, or noting, equal angles. Isogonic lines
(Magnetism), lines traced on the surface of the globe, or upon a
chart, connecting places at which the deviation of the magnetic
needle from the meridian or true north is the same.

ISOGONIC
I`so*gon"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Characterized by isogonism.

ISOGONISM
I*sog"o*nism, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The quality of having similar sexual zooids or gonophores and
dissimilar hydrants; -- said of certain hydroids.

ISOGRAPHIC
I`so*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to isography.

ISOGRAPHY
I*sog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Iso- + -graphy.]

Defn: Imitation of another's handwriting,

ISOHYETOSE
I`so*hy"e*tose`, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. "yeto`s rain.] (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to lines connecting places on the earth's
surface which have a mean annual rainfall.
 -- n.

Defn: An isohyetose line.

ISOLABLE
I"so*la*ble, a. Etym: [See Isolate.] (Chem.)

Defn: Capable of being isolated, or of being obtained in a pure
state; as, gold is isolable.

ISOLATE
I"so*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Isolated; p. pr. & vb. n. Isolating.]
Etym: [It. isolato, p. p. of isolare to isolate, fr. isola island, L.
insula. See 2d Isle, and cf. Insulate.]

1. To place in a detached situation; to place by itself or alone; to
insulate; to separate from others.
Short isolated sentences were the mode in which ancient wisdom
delighted to convey its precepts. Bp. Warburton.

2. (Elec.)

Defn: To insulate. See Insulate.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: To separate from all foreign substances; to make pure; to
obtain in a free state.

ISOLATED
I"so*la`ted, a.

Defn: Placed or standing alone; detached; separated from others.
Isolated point of a curve. (Geom.) See Acnode.

ISOLATEDLY
I"so*la`ted*ly, adv.

Defn: In an isolated manner.

ISOLATION
I`so*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. isolation.]

Defn: The act of isolating, or the state of being isolated;
insulation; separation; loneliness. Milman.

ISOLATOR
I"so*la`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, isolates.

ISOLOGOUS
I*sol"o*gous, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Having similar proportions, similar relations, or similar
differences of composition; -- said specifically of groups or series
which differ by a constant difference; as, ethane, ethylene, an
acetylene, or their analogous compounds, form an isologous series.

ISOMER
I"so*mer, n. Etym: [See Isomeric.] (Chem.)

Defn: A body or compound which is isomeric with another body or
compound; a member of an isomeric series.

ISOMERE
I"so*mere, n. [Iso- + -mere.] (Zoöl.)

1. A homologous or corresponding part or segment.

2.  (Chem.) = Isomer.

ISOMERIC
I`so*mer"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. isomérique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Having the same percentage composition; -- said of two or more
different substances which contain the same ingredients in the same
proportions by weight, often used with with. Specif.: (a) Polymeric;
i. e., having the same elements united in the same proportion by
weight, but with different molecular weights; as, acetylene and
benzine are isomeric (polymeric) with each other in this sense. See
Polymeric. (b) Metameric; i. e., having the same elements united in
the same proportions by weight, and with the same molecular weight,
but which a different structure or arrangement of the ultimate parts;
as, ethyl alcohol and methyl ether are isomeric (metameric) with each
other in this sense. See Metameric.

ISOMERIDE
I*som"er*ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An isomer. [R.]

ISOMERISM
I*som"er*ism, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The state, quality, or relation, of two or more isomeric
substances. Physical isomerism (Chem.), the condition or relation of
certain (metameric) substances, which, while chemically identical (in
that they have the same composition, the same molecular weights, and
the same ultimate constitution), are yet physically different, as in
their action on polarized light, as dextro- and lævo-tartaric acids.
In such compounds there is usually at least one unsymmetrical carbon
atom. See Unsymmetrical.

ISOMEROMORPHISM
I`so*mer`o*mor"phism, n. Etym: [Isomer + Gr. ism.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: Isomorphism between substances that are isomeric.

ISOMETRIC; ISOMETRICAL
I`so*met"ric, I`so*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr.

1. Pertaining to, or characterized by, equality of measure.

2. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Noting, or conforming to, that system of crystallization in
which the three axes are of equal length and at right angles to each
other; monometric; regular; cubic. Cf. Crystallization. Isometric
lines (Thermodynamics), lines representing in a diagram the relations
of pressure and temperature in a gas, when the volume remains
constant.
 -- Isometrical perspective. See under Perspective.
 -- Isometrical projection, a species of orthographic projection, in
which but a single plane of projection is used. It is so named from
the fact that the projections of three equal lines, parallel
respectively to three rectangular axes, are equal to one another.
This kind of projection is principally used in delineating buildings
or machinery, in which the principal lines are parallel to three
rectangular axes, and the principal planes are parallel to three
rectangular planes passing through the three axes.

ISOMORPH
I"so*morph, n. Etym: [See Isomorphous.]

Defn: A substance which is similar to another in crystalline form and
composition.

ISOMORPHIC
I`so*mor"phic, a.

Defn: Isomorphous.

ISOMORPHISM
I`so*mor"phism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. isomorphisme.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: A similarity of crystalline form between substances of similar
composition, as between the sulphates of barium (BaSO4) and strontium
(SrSO4). It is sometimes extended to include similarity of form
between substances of unlike composition, which is more properly
called homoeomorphism.

ISOMORPHOUS
I`so*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Iso- + -morphous.]

Defn: Having the quality of isomorphism.

ISONANDRA
I`so*nan"dra, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of sapotaceous trees of India. Isonandra Gutta is the
principal source of gutta-percha.

ISONEPHELIC
I`so*ne*phel"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: Having, or indicating, an equal amount of cloudiness for a
given period; as, isonephelic regions; an isonephelic line.

ISONICOTINE
I`so*nic"o*tine, n. Etym: [Iso- + nicotine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline, nitrogenous base, C10H14N2, isomeric with
nicotine.

ISONICOTINIC
I`so*nic`o*tin"ic, a. (Chem.)
(a) Pertaining to, or derived from, isonicotine.
(b) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid isomeric with nicotinic
acid.

ISONITROSO-
I`so*ni*tro"so-. Etym: [Iso- + nitroso-.] (Chem.)

Defn: A combining from (also used adjectively), signifying:
Pertaining to, or designating, the characteristic, nitrogenous
radical, NOH, called the isonitroso group.

ISONOMIC
I`so*nom"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The same, or equal, in law or right; one in kind or origin;
analogous; similar. Dana.

ISONOMY
I*son"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. isonomie. See Isonomic.]

Defn: Equal law or right; equal distribution of rights and
privileges; similarity.

ISOPATHY
I*sop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Med.)
(a) The system which undertakes to cure a disease by means of the
virus of the same disease.
(b) The theory of curing a diseased organ by eating the analogous
organ of a healthy animal. Mayne.
(c) The doctrine that the power of therapeutics is equal to that of
the causes of disease.

ISOPEPSIN
I`so*pep"sin, n. Etym: [Iso- + pepsin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pepsin modified by exposure to a temperature of from 40º to 60º
C.

ISOPERIMETRICAL
I`so*per`i*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Gr. isopérimètre. See Perimeter.]
(Geom.)

Defn: Having equal perimeters of circumferences; as, isoperimetrical
figures or bodies.

ISOPERIMETRY
I`so*per*im"e*try, n. (Geom.)

Defn: The science of figures having equal perimeters or boundaries.

ISOPIESTIC
I`so*pi*es"tic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Thermodynamics)

Defn: Having equal pressure. Isopiestic lines, lines showing, in a
diagram, the relations of temperature and volume, when the elastic
force is constant; -- called also isobars.

ISOPLEURA
I`so*pleu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Iso-, and Pleura.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A subclass of Gastropoda, in which the body is symmetrical, the
right and left sides being equal.

Note: The intestine terminates at the posterior end of the body, and
the gills and circulatory and reproductive organs are paired. It
includes the chitons (Polyplacophora), together with Neomenia and
Chætoderma, which are wormlike forms without a shell.

ISOPOD
I"so*pod, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the legs similar in structure; belonging to the Isopoda.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Isopoda.

ISOPODA
I*sop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Iso-, and -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of sessile-eyed Crustacea, usually having seven pairs
of legs, which are all similar in structure.

Note: The body is usually depressed, with the abdominal segments
short, and often consolidated in part. The branchiæ are on the
abdominal appendages. The group includes the terrestrial pill bugs
and sow bugs, with numerous marine forms. See Arthrostrata, Gribble.

ISOPODIFORM
I`so*pod"i*form, a. Etym: [Isopod + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the shape of an isopod; -- said of the larvæ of certain
insects.

ISOPODOUS
I*sop"o*dous, a.

Defn: Same as Isopod.

ISOPOGONOUS
I`so*pog"o*nous, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the two webs equal in breath; -- said of feathers.

ISOPRENE
I"so*prene, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oily, volatile hydrocarbon, obtained by the distillation of
caoutchouc or guttaipercha.C5H8 -- unsaturated, and used to make
synthetic rubber by polymerization. In organic chemistry, viewed
conceptually as the building block of the terpene series of
hydrocarbons

ISOPYCNIC
I`so*pyc"nic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. pykno`s dense.] (Physics)

Defn: Having equal density, as different regions of a medium; passing
through points at which the density is equal; as, an isopycnic line
or surface.

ISOPYCNIC
I`so*pyc"nic, n. (Physics)

Defn: A line or surface passing through those points in a medium, at
which the density is the same.

ISORCIN
I*sor"cin, n. Etym: [Iso- + orcin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline hydrocarbon derivative, metameric with orcin, but
produced artificially; -- called also cresorcin.

ISORROPIC
I`sor*rop"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. 'iso`rropos in equipoise; 'i`sos equal +
"roph` downward inclination or momentum.]

Defn: Of equal value. Isorropic line (in a diagram) (Geom.), the
locus of all the points for which a specified function has a constant
value. Newcomb.

ISOSCELES
I*sos"ce*les, a. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. 'i`sos equal + (Geom.)

Defn: Having two legs or sides that are equal; -- said of a triangle.

ISOSPONDYLI
I`so*spon"dy*li, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. 'i`sos equal + (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive order of fishes, including the salmons, herrings,
and many allied forms.

ISOSPONDYLOUS
I`so*spon"dy*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Isospondyli; having the anterior
vertebræ separate and normal.

ISOSPORE
I"so*spore, n. (Biol.)
 (a) One of the spores produced by an isosporous organism.
 (b) A zygospore.

ISOSPORIC
I`so*spor"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing but one kind of spore, as the ferns and Equiseta. Cf.
Heterosporic.

ISOSPOROUS
I*sos"po*rous, a.  [Iso- + Gr.  fruit.] (Biol.)

Defn: Producing but one kind of spore, as the ferns.

ISOSTASY
I*sos"ta*sy, n. [See Iso-; Stasis.]

Defn: The state or quality of being isostatic. Specif. (Geol.),

Defn: general equilibrium in the earth's crust, supposed to be
maintained by the yielding or flow of rock material beneath the
surface under gravitative stress. By the theory of isostasy each unit
column of the earth, from surface to center, has approximately the
same weight, and the continents stand higher than the ocean beds
chiefly because the material of the crust has there less density.

ISOSTATIC
I`so*stat"ic, a.  [Iso- + static.] (Physics & Geol.)

Defn: Subjected to equal pressure from every side; being in
hydrostatic equilibrium, as a body submerged in a liquid at rest;
pertaining to, or characterized by, isostasy.

ISOSTEMONOUS
I`so*stem"o*nous, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having exactly as many stamens as petals.

ISOSTEMONY
I`so*stem"o*ny, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The quality or state of being isostemonous.

ISOSULPHOCYANATE
I`so*sul`pho*cy"a*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of isosulphocyanic acid.

ISOSULPHOCYANIC
I`so*sul`pho*cy*an"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, HNCS, isomeric with
sulphocyanic acid.

ISOTHERAL
I*soth"er*al, a.

Defn: Having the nature of an isothere; indicating the distribution
of temperature by means of an isothere; as, an isotheral chart or
line.

ISOTHERE
I"so*there, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting points on the earth's surface having the same
mean summer temperature.

ISOTHERM
I"so*therm, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting or marking points on the earth's surface
having the same temperature. This may be the temperature for a given
time of observation, or the mean temperature for a year or other
period. Also, a similar line based on the distribution of temperature
in the ocean.

ISOTHERMAL
I`so*ther"mal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. isotherme.]
(a) Relating to equality of temperature.
(b) (Phys. Geog.) Having reference to the geographical distribution
of temperature, as exhibited by means of isotherms; as, an isothermal
line; an isothermal chart. Isothermal line. (a) An isotherm. (b) A
line drawn on a diagram of energy such that its ordinates represent
the pressures of a substance corresponding to various volumes, while
the absolute temperature is maintained at a constant value.
 -- Isothermal zones, spaces on opposite sides of the equator having
the same mean temperature, and bounded by corresponding isothermal
lines.

ISOTHERMOBATH
I`so*ther"mo*bath, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog)

Defn: A line drawn through points of equal temperature in a vertical
section of the ocean.

ISOTHERMOBATHIC
I`so*ther`mo*bath"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an isothermobath; possessing or indicating
equal temperatures in a vertical section, as of the ocean.

ISOTHEROMBROSE
I*soth`er*om"brose, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. qe`ros summer + 'o`mbros
rain.] (Phys. Geog)

Defn: A line connecting or marking points on the earth's surface,
which have the same mean summer rainfall.

ISOTONIC
I`so*ton"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + tonic.]

Defn: Having or indicating, equal tones, or tension. Isotonic system
(Mus.), a system consisting of intervals, in which each concord is
alike tempered, and in which there are twelve equal semitones.

ISOTRIMORPHIC
I`so*tri*mor"phic, a.

Defn: Isotrimorphous.

ISOTRIMORPHISM
I`so*tri*mor"phism, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr.

Defn: Isomorphism between the three forms, severally, of two
trimorphous substances.

ISOTRIMORPHOUS
I`so*tri*mor"phous, a.

Defn: Having the quality of isotrimorphism; isotrimorphic.

ISOTROPIC
I`so*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Having the same properties in all directions; specifically,
equally elastic in all directions.

ISOTROPISM
I*sot"ro*pism, n.

Defn: Isotropy.

ISOTROPOUS
I*sot"ro*pous, a.

Defn: Isotropic.

ISOTROPY
I*sot"ro*py, n. (Physics)

Defn: Uniformity of physical properties in all directions in a body;
absence of all kinds of polarity; specifically, equal elasticity in
all directions.

ISOURIC
I`so*u"ric, a. Etym: [Iso- + uric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid,
isomeric with uric acid.

ISRAELITE
Is"ra*el*ite, n. Etym: [L. Israëlites, Gr. Yisra, i. e., champion of
God; sarah to fight + God.]

Defn: A descendant of Israel, or Jacob; a Hebrew; a Jew.

ISRAELITIC; ISRAELITISH
Is`ra*el*it"ic, Is"ra*el*i`tish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Israel, or to the Israelites; Jewish;
Hebrew.

ISSUABLE
Is"su*a*ble, a. Etym: [From Issue.]

1. Leading to, producing, or relating to, an issue; capable of being
made an issue at law. Burrill.

2. Lawful or suitable to be issued; as, a writ issuable on these
grounds. Issuable plea (Law), a plea to the merits, on which the
adverse party may take issue and proceed to trial.

ISSUABLY
Is"su*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an issuable manner; by way of issue; as, to plead issuably.

ISSUANCE
Is"su*ance, n.

Defn: The act of issuing, or giving out; as, the issuance of an
order; the issuance of rations, and the like.

ISSUANT
Is"su*ant, a. (Her.)

Defn: Issuing or coming up; -- a term used to express a charge or
bearing rising or coming out of another.

ISSUE
Is"sue, n. Etym: [OF. issue, eissue, F. issue, fr. OF. issir, eissir,
to go out, L. exire; ex out of, from + ire to go, akin to Gr. i.,
Goth. iddja went, used as prefect of gaggan to go. Cf. Ambition,
Count a nobleman, Commence, Errant, Exit, Eyre, Initial, Yede went.]

1. The act of passing or flowing out; a moving out from any inclosed
place; egress; as, the issue of water from a pipe, of blood from a
wound, of air from a bellows, of people from a house.

2. The act of sending out, or causing to go forth; delivery;
issuance; as, the issue of an order from a commanding officer; the
issue of money from a treasury.

3. That which passes, flows, or is sent out; the whole quantity sent
forth or emitted at one time; as, an issue of bank notes; the daily
issue of a newspaper.

4. Progeny; a child or children; offspring. In law, sometimes, in a
general sense, all persons descended from a common ancestor; all
lineal descendants.
If the king Should without issue die. Shak.

5. Produce of the earth, or profits of land, tenements, or other
property; as, A conveyed to B all his right for a term of years, with
all the issues, rents, and profits.

6. A discharge of flux, as of blood. Matt. ix. 20.

7. (Med.)

Defn: An artificial ulcer, usually made in the fleshy part of the arm
or leg, to produce the secretion and discharge of pus for the relief
of some affected part.

8. The final outcome or result; upshot; conclusion; event; hence,
contest; test; trial.
Come forth to view The issue of the exploit. Shak.
While it is hot, I 'll put it to the issue. Shak.

9. A point in debate or controversy on which the parties take
affirmative and negative positions; a presentation of alternatives
between which to choose or decide.

10. (Law)

Defn: In pleading, a single material point of law or fact depending
in the suit, which, being affirmed on the one side and denied on the
other, is presented for determination. See General issue, under
General, and Feigned issue, under Feigned. Blount. Cowell. At issue,
in controversy; disputed; opposing or contesting; hence, at variance;
disagreeing; inconsistent.
As much at issue with the summer day As if you brought a candle out
of doors. Mrs. Browning.
-- Bank of issue, Collateral issue, etc. See under Bank, Collateral,
etc.
 -- Issue pea, a pea, or a similar round body, used to maintain
irritation in a wound, and promote the secretion and discharge of
pus.
 -- To join, or take, issue, to take opposing sides in a matter in
controversy.

ISSUE
Is"sue, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Issued; p. pr. & vb. n. Issuing.]

1. To pass or flow out; to run out, as from any inclosed place.
From it issued forced drops of blood. Shak.

2. To go out; to rush out; to sally forth; as, troops issued from the
town, and attacked the besiegers.

3. To proceed, as from a source; as, water issues from springs; light
issues from the sun.

4. To proceed, as progeny; to be derived; to be descended; to spring.
Of thy sons that shall issue from thee. 2 Kings xx. 18.

5. To extend; to pass or open; as, the path issues into the highway.

6. To be produced as an effect or result; to grow or accrue; to
arise; to proceed; as, rents and profits issuing from land,
tenements, or a capital stock.

7. To close; to end; to terminate; to turn out; as, we know not how
the cause will issue.

8. (Law)

Defn: In pleading, to come to a point in fact or law, on which the
parties join issue.

ISSUE
Is"sue, v. t.

1. To send out; to put into circulation; as, to issue notes from a
bank.

2. To deliver for use; as, to issue provisions.

3. To send out officially; to deliver by authority; as, to issue an
order; to issue a writ.

ISSUELESS
Is"sue*less, a.

Defn: Having no issue or progeny; childless. "The heavens . . . have
left me issueless." Shak.

ISSUER
Is"su*er, n.

Defn: One who issues, emits, or publishes.

-IST
-ist. Etym: [Gr. iste.]

Defn: A noun suffix denoting an agent, or doer, one who practices, a
believer in; as, theorist, one who theorizes; socialist, one who
holds to socialism; sensualist, one given to sensuality.

IS'T
Is't.

Defn: A contraction of is it.

ISTHMIAN
Isth"mi*an, a. Etym: [L. Isthmius, Gr. Isthmus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an isthmus, especially to the Isthmus of
Corinth, in Greece. Isthmian games (Gr. Antiq.), one of the four
great national festivals of Greece, celebrated on the Isthmus of
Corinth in the spring of every alternate year. They consisted of all
kinds of athletic sports, wrestling, boxing, racing on foot and in
chariots, and also contests in music and poetry. The prize was a
garland of pine leaves.

ISTHMUS
Isth"mus, n.; pl. Isthmuses. Etym: [L. isthmus, Gr. 'isqmo`s a neck,
a neck of land between two seas, an isthmus, especially the Isthmus
of Corinth; prob. from the root of 'ie`nai to go; cf. Icel. eiedh
isthmus. See Issue.] (Geog.)

Defn: A neck or narrow slip of land by which two continents are
connected, or by which a peninsula is united to the mainland; as, the
Isthmus of Panama; the Isthmus of Suez, etc. Isthmus of the fauces.
(Anat.) See Fauces.

ISTLE
Is"tle, n.

Defn: Same as Ixtle.

ISURET
I*su"ret, n. Etym: [Iso- + urea.] (Chem.)

Defn: An artificial nitrogenous base, isomeric with urea, and forming
a white crystalline substance; -- called also isuretine.

IT
It, pron. Etym: [OE. it, hit, AS. hit; cf. D. het. sq. root181. See
He.]

Defn: The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the
masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural
(they, their of theirs, them).

Note: The possessive form its is modern, being rarely found in the
writings of Shakespeare and Milton, and not at all in the original
King James's version of the Bible. During the transition from the
regular his to the anomalous its, it was to some extent employed in
the possessive without the case ending. See His, and He. In Dryden's
time its had become quite established as the regular form.
The day present hath ever inough to do with it owne grief. Genevan
Test.
Do, child, go to it grandam, child. Shak.
It knighthood shall do worse. It shall fright all it friends with
borrowing letters. B. Jonson.

Note: In the course of time, the nature of the neuter sign i in it,
the form being found in but a few words, became misunderstood.
Instead of being looked upon as an affix, it passed for part of the
original word. Hence was formed from it the anomalous genitive it,
superseding the Saxon his. Latham.
The fruit tree yielding fruit after his (its) kind. Gen. i. 11.
It is used, --

1. As a substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the
book, take it home.

2. As a demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence,
pointing to that which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or
referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it was
John.
It is I; be not afraid. Matt. xiv. 27.
Peter heard that it was the Lord. John xxi. 7.
Often, in such cases, as a substitute for a sentence or clause; as,
it is thought he will come; it is wrong to do this.

3. As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows;
it rains.

4. As a substitute for such general terms as, the state of affairs,
the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it with the sick
man
Think on me when it shall be well with thee. Gen. xl. 14.

5. As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a
substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to
walk).
The Lacedemonians, at the Straits of Thermopylæ, when their arms
failed them, fought it out with nails and teeth. Dryden.
Whether the charmer sinner it, or saint it, If folly grows romantic,
I must paint it. Pope.
Its self. See Itself.

ITACISM
I"ta*cism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. itacisme. See Etacism, and cf. Iotacism.]
(Greek Gram.)

Defn: Pronunciation of e in the English word be. This was the
pronunciation advocated by ReuEtacism.
In all such questions between a the confusing element of itacism
comes in. Alford.

ITACIST
I"ta*cist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. itaciste.]

Defn: One who is in favor of itacism.

ITACOLUMITE
It`a*col"u*mite, n. Etym: [From Itacolumi, a mountain of Brazil.]
(Min.)

Defn: A laminated, granular, siliceous rocks, often occurring in
regions where the diamond is found.

ITACONIC
It`a*con"ic, a. Etym: [From aconitic, by transposition of the
letters.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C5H6O4, which is
obtained as a white crystalline substance by decomposing aconitic and
other organic acids.

ITALA
It"a*la, n. Etym: [Fem. of L. Italus Italian.]

Defn: An early Latin version of the Scriptures (the Old Testament was
translated from the Septuagint, and was also called the Italic
version).

ITALIAN
I*tal"ian, a. Etym: [Cf. F. italien, It. italiano. Cf. Italic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Italy, or to its people or language.
Italian cloth a light material of cotton and worsted; -- called also
farmer's satin.
 -- Italian iron, a heater for fluting frills.
 -- Italian juice, Calabrian liquorice.

ITALIAN
I*tal"ian, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Italy.

2. The language used in Italy, or by the Italians.

ITALIANATE
I*tal"ian*ate, v. t. Etym: [Cf. It. italianare.]

Defn: To render Italian, or conformable to Italian customs; to
Italianize. [R.] Ascham.

ITALIANATE
I*tal"ian*ate, a.

Defn: Italianized; Italianated. "Apish, childish, and Italianate."
Marlowe.

ITALIANISM
I*tal"ian*ism, n.

1. A word, phrase, or idiom, peculiar to the Italians; an Italicism.

2. Attachment to, or sympathy for, Italy.

ITALIANIZE
I*tal"ian*ize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Italianized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Italianizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. italianiser, It. italianizzare.]

1. To play the Italian; to speak Italian. Cotgrave.

2. To render Italian in any respect; to Italianate. "An Englishman
Italianized." Lowell.

ITALIC
I*tal"ic, a. Etym: [L. Italicus: cf. F. italique. Cf. Italian.]

1. Relating to Italy or to its people.

2. Applied especially to a kind of type in which the letters do not
stand upright, but slope toward the right; -- so called because
dedicated to the States of Italy by the inventor, Aldus Manutius,
about the year 1500. Italic languages, the group or family of
languages of ancient Italy.
 -- Italic order (Arch.), the composite order. See Composite.
 -- Italic school, a term given to the Pythagorean and Eleatic
philosophers, from the country where their doctrines were first
promulgated.
 -- Italic version. See Itala.

ITALIC
I*tal"ic, n.; pl. Italics (. (Print.)

Defn: An Italic letter, character, or type (see Italic, a., 2.); --
often in the plural; as, the Italics are the author's. Italic letters
are used to distinguish words for emphasis, importance, antithesis,
etc. Also, collectively, Italic letters.

ITALICISM
I*tal"i*cism, n.

1. A phrase or idiom peculiar to the Italian language; to Italianism.

2. The use of Italics.

ITALICIZE
I*tal"i*cize, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Italicized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Italicizing.]

Defn: To print in Italic characters; to underline written letters or
words with a single line; as, to Italicize a word; Italicizes too
much.

ITA PALM
I"ta palm`. (Bot.)

Defn: A magnificent species of palm (Mauritia flexuosa), growing near
the Orinoco. The natives eat its fruit and buds, drink its sap, and
make thread and cord from its fiber.

ITCH
Itch, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Itched; p. pr. & vb. n. Itching.] Etym:
[OE. icchen, , AS. giccan; akin to D. jeuken, joken, G. jucken, OHG.
jucchen.]

1. To have an uneasy sensation in the skin, which inclines the person
to scratch the part affected.
My mouth hath itched all this long day. Chaucer.

2. To have a constant desire or teasing uneasiness; to long for; as,
itching ears. "An itching palm." Shak.

ITCH
Itch, n.

1. (Med.)

Defn: An eruption of small, isolated, acuminated vesicles, produced
by the entrance of a parasitic mite (the Sarcoptes scabei), and
attended with itching. It is transmissible by contact.

2. Any itching eruption.

3. A sensation in the skin occasioned (or resembling that occasioned)
by the itch eruption; -- called also scabies, psora, etc.

4. A constant irritating desire.
An itch of being thought a divine king. Dryden.
Baker's itch. See under Baker.
 -- Barber's itch, sycosis.
 -- Bricklayer's itch, an eczema of the hands attended with much
itching, occurring among bricklayers.
 -- Grocer's itch, an itching eruption, being a variety of eczema,
produced by the sugar mite (Tyrogluphus sacchari).
 -- Itch insect (Zoöl.), a small parasitic mite (Sarcoptes scabei)
which burrows and breeds beneath the human skin, thus causing the
disease known as the itch. See Illust. in Append.
 -- Itch mite. (Zoöl.) Same as Itch insect, above. Also, other
similar mites affecting the lower animals, as the horse and ox.
 -- Sugar baker's itch, a variety of eczema, due to the action of
sugar upon the skin.
 -- Washerwoman's itch, eczema of the hands and arms, occurring among
washerwomen.

ITCHINESS
Itch"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being itchy.

ITCHLESS
Itch"less, a.

Defn: Free from itching.

ITCHY
Itch"y, a.

Defn: Infected with the itch, or with an itching sensation. Cowper.

-ITE
-ite. Etym: [From Gr.

1. A suffix denoting one of a party, a sympathizer with or adherent
of, and the like, and frequently used in ridicule; as, a Millerite; a
Benthamite.

2. A suffix used in naming minerals; as, chlorite, from its
characteristic green color; barite, from its heaviness; graphite,
from its use in writing.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: A suffix used to denote the salts formed from those acids whose
names end in -ous; as, sulphite, from sulphurous; nitrite, from
nitrous acid, etc.

ITEM
I"tem, adv. Etym: [L. See Iterate.]

Defn: Also; as an additional article.

ITEM
I"tem, n. Etym: [From Item, adv.]

1. An article; a separate particular in an account; as, the items in
a bill.

2. A hint; an innuendo. [Obs.]
A secret item was given to some of the bishops . . . to absent
themselves. Fuller.

3. A short article in a newspaper; a paragraph; as, an item
concerning the weather.

ITEM
I"tem, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Itemed; p. pr. & vb. n. Iteming.]

Defn: To make a note or memorandum of.
I have itemed it in my memory. Addison.

ITEMIZE
I"tem*ize, v. t.

Defn: To state in items, or by particulars; as, to itemize the cost
of a railroad. [Local, U. S.]

ITER
I"ter, n. Etym: [L. See Eyre.] (Anat.)

Defn: A passage; esp., the passage between the third and fourth
ventricles in the brain; the aqueduct of Sylvius.

ITERABLE
It"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. iterabilis. See Iterate.]

Defn: Capable of being iterated or repeated. [Obs.]

ITERANCE
It"er*ance, n.

Defn: Iteration. [Obs.]

ITERANT
It"er*ant, a. Etym: [L. iterans, p. pr. of iterare.]

Defn: Repeating; iterating; as, an iterant echo. Bacon.

ITERATE
It"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. iteratus, p. p. of iterare to repeat, fr.
iterum again, prop. a compar. from the stem of is he, that; cf. L.
ita so, item likewise, also, Skr. itara other, iti thus. Cf.
Identity, Item.]

Defn: Uttered or done again; repeated. [Obs.] Bp. Gardiner.

ITERATE
It"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Iterated; p. pr. & vb. n. Iterating.]

Defn: To utter or do a second time or many times; to repeat; as, to
iterate advice.
Nor Eve to iterate Her former trespass feared. Milton.

ITERATE
It"er*ate, adv.

Defn: By way of iteration.

ITERATION
It`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. iteratio.]

Defn: Recital or performance a second time; repetition. Bacon.
What needs this iteration, woman Shak.

ITERATIVE
It"er*a*tive, a. Etym: [L. iterativus: cf. F. itératif.]

Defn: Repeating. Cotgrave.
 -- It"er*a*tive*ly, adv.

ITHYPHALLIC
Ith`y*phal"lic, a. Etym: [L. ithyphallicus, fr. ithyphallus, Gr.
membrum virile erectum, or a figure thereof carried in the festivals
of Bacchus.]

Defn: Lustful; lewd; salacious; indecent; obscene.

ITINERACY
I*tin"er*a*cy, n.

Defn: The act or practice of itinerating; itinerancy.

ITINERANCY
I*tin"er*an*cy, n. Etym: [See Itinerant.]

1. A passing from place to place. Dr. H. More.

2. A discharge of official duty involving frequent change of
residence; the custom or practice of discharging official duty in
this way; also, a body of persons who thus discharge official duty.

ITINERANT
I*tin"er*ant, a. Etym: [LL. itinerans, -antis, p. pr. of itinerare to
make a journey, fr. L. iter, itineris, a walk, way, journey. See
Errant, Issue.]

Defn: Passing or traveling about a country; going or preaching on a
circuit; wandering; not settled; as, an itinerant preacher; an
itinerant peddler.
The king's own courts were then itinerant, being kept in the king's
palace, and removing with his household in those royal progresses
which he continually made. Blackstone.

ITINERANT
I*tin"er*ant, a.

Defn: One who travels from place to place, particularly a preacher;
one who is unsettled.
Glad to turn itinerant, To stroll and teach from town to town.
Hudibras.

ITINERANTLY
I*tin"er*ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In an itinerant manner.

ITINERARY
I*tin"er*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. itinerarius: cf. F. itinéraire. See
Itinerant.]

Defn: Itinerant; traveling; passing from place to place; done on a
journey.
It was rather an itinerary circuit of justice than a progress. Bacon.

ITINERARY
I*tin"er*a*ry, n.; pl. Itineraries. Etym: [L. itinerarium: cf. F.
itinéraire. See Itinerary, a.]

Defn: An account of travels, or a register of places and distances as
a guide to travelers; as, the Itinerary of Antoninus.

ITINERATE
I*tin"er*ate. v. i. [imp. & p. p. Itinerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Itinerating.] Etym: [LL. itineratus, p. p. of itinerari, itinerare.
See Itinerant.]

Defn: To wander without a settled habitation; to travel from place or
on a circuit, particularly for the purpose of preaching, lecturing,
etc.

-ITIS
-i"tis, Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A suffix used in medical terms to denote an inflammatory
disease of; as, arthritis; bronchitis, phrenitis.

ITS
Its.

Defn: Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It.

ITSELF
It*self", pron.

Defn: The neuter reciprocal pronoun of It; as, the thing is good in
itself; it stands by itself.
Borrowing of foreigners, in itself, makes not the kingdom rich or
poor. Locke.

ITTRIA
It"tri*a, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: See Yttria.

ITTRIUM
It"tri*um, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: See Yttrium.

ITZIBU
It"zi*bu, n. Etym: [Jap. ichibu.] (Numis.)

Defn: A silver coin of Japan, worth about thirty-four cents. [Written
also itzebu, ichebu, itcheboo, etc.]

IULIDAN
I*u"li*dan, n. Etym: [See Iulus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Iulidæ, a family of myriapods, of which the genus
Iulus is the type. See Iulus.

IULUS
I*u"lus, n. Etym: [L., down, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of chilognathous myriapods. The body is long and round,
consisting of numerous smooth, equal segments, each of which bears
two pairs of short legs. It includes the galleyworms. See
Chilognatha.

IVAN IVANOVITCH
I*van" I*van"o*vitch

Defn: . An ideal personification of the typical Russian or of the
Russian people; -- used as "John Bull" is used for the typical
Englishman.

I'VE
I've

Defn: . Colloquial contraction of I have.

-IVE
-ive. Etym: [L. -ivus.]

Defn: An adjective suffix signifying relating or belonging to, of the
nature of, tending to; as affirmative, active, conclusive,
corrective, diminutive.

IVIED
I"vied, a. Etym: [From Ivy.]

Defn: Overgrown with ivy.

IVORIDE
I"vo*ride, n.

Defn: A composition resembling ivory in appearance and used as a
substitute for it.

IVORY
I"vo*ry, n.; pl. Ivories. Etym: [OE. ivori, F. ivoire, fr. L. eboreus
made of ivory, fr. ebur, eboris, ivory, cf. Skr. ibha elephant. Cf.
Eburnean.]

1. The hard, white, opaque, fine-grained substance constituting the
tusks of the elephant. It is a variety of dentine, characterized by
the minuteness and close arrangement of the tubes, as also by their
double flexure. It is used in manufacturing articles of ornament or
utility.

Note: Ivory is the name commercially given not only to the substance
constituting the tusks of the elephant, but also to that of the tusks
of the hippopotamus and walrus, the hornlike tusk of the narwhal,
etc.

2. The tusks themselves of the elephant, etc.

3. Any carving executed in ivory. Mollett.

4. pl.

Defn: Teeth; as, to show one's ivories. [Slang] Ivory black. See
under Black, n.
 -- Ivory gull (Zoöl.), a white Arctic gull (Larus eburneus).
 -- Ivory nut (Bot.), the nut of a species of palm, the Phytephas
macroarpa, often as large as a hen's egg. When young the seed
contains a fluid, which gradually hardness into a whitish, close-
grained, albuminous substance, resembling the finest ivory in texture
and color, whence it is called vegetable ivory. It is wrought into
various articles, as buttons, chessmen, etc. The palm is found in New
Grenada. A smaller kind is the fruit of the Phytephas microarpa. The
nuts are known in commerce as Corosso nuts.
 -- Ivory palm (Bot.), the palm tree which produces ivory nuts.
 -- Ivory shell (Zoöl.), any species of Eburna, a genus of marine
gastropod shells, having a smooth surface, usually white with red or
brown spots.
 -- Vegetable ivory, the meat of the ivory nut. See Ivory nut
(above).

IVORY-BILL
I"vo*ry-bill`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, handsome, North American woodpecker (Campephilus
principalis), having a large, sharp, ivory-colored beak. Its general
color is glossy black, with white secondaries, and a white dorsal
stripe. The male has a large, scarlet crest. It is now rare, and
found only in the Gulf States.

IVORYTYPE
I"vo*ry*type`, n. (photog.)

Defn: A picture produced by superposing a very light print, rendered
translucent by varnish, and tinted upon the back, upon a stronger
print, so as to give the effect of a photograph in natural colors; --
called also hellenotype. Knight.

IVY
I"vy, n.; pl. Ivies. Etym: [AS. ifig; akin to OHG. ebawi, ebah, G.
epheu.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Hedera (H. helix), common in Europe. Its
leaves are evergreen, dark, smooth, shining, and mostly five-pointed;
the flowers yellowish and small; the berries black or yellow. The
stem clings to walls and trees by rootlike fibers.
Direct The clasping ivy where to climb. Milton.
Ye myrtles brown, with ivy never sere. Milton.
American ivy. (Bot.) See Virginia creeper.
 -- English ivy (Bot.), a popular name in America for the ivy proper
(Hedera helix).
 -- German ivy (Bot.), a creeping plant, with smooth, succulent
stems, and fleshy, light-green leaves; a species of Senecio (S.
scandens).
 -- Ground ivy. (Bot.) Gill (Nepeta Glechoma).
 -- Ivy bush. (Bot.) See Mountain laurel, under Mountain.
 -- Ivy owl (Zoöl.), the barn owl.
 -- Ivy tod (Bot.), the ivy plant. Tennyson.
 -- Japanese ivy (Bot.), a climbing plant (Ampelopsis tricuspidata),
closely related to the Virginia creeper.
 -- Poison ivy (Bot.), an American woody creeper (Rhus
Toxicodendron), with trifoliate leaves, and greenish-white berries.
It is exceedingly poisonous to the touch for most persons.
 -- To pipe in an ivy leaf, to console one's self as best one can.
[Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- West Indian ivy, a climbing plant of the genus Marcgravia.

IVY-MANTLED
I"vy-man`tled, a.

Defn: Covered with ivy.

IWIS
I*wis", adv.

Defn: Indeed; truly. See Ywis. [Written also iwys, iwisse, etc.]
[Obs.] Ascham.

I. W. W.
I. W. W. (Abbrev.)

Defn: Industrial Workers of the World (the name of two American labor
organizations, one of which advocates syndicalism).

IXIA
Ix"i*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A South African bulbous plant of the Iris family, remarkable
for the brilliancy of its flowers.

IXODES
Ix*o"des, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of parasitic Acarina, which includes various species of
ticks. See Tick, the insect.

IXODIAN
Ix*o"di*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tick of the genus Ixodes, or the family Ixodidæ.

IXTLE; IXTLI
Ix"tle, Ix"tli, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A Mexican name for a variety of Agave rigida, which furnishes a
strong coarse fiber; also, the fiber itself, which is called also
pita, and Tampico fiber. [Written also istle.]

IXTLE; IXTIL
Ix"tle Ix"til, n.

Defn: The fine, soft fiber of the bromeliaceous plant Bromelia
sylvestris.

IZARD
Iz"ard, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A variety of the chamois found in the Pyrenees.

-IZE
-ize. Etym: [F. -iser, L. -izare, Gr.

Defn: A verb suffix signifying to make, to do, to practice; as
apologize, baptize, theorize, tyrannize.

Note: In the case of certain words the spelling with -ise (after
analogy with F. -iser) is the usual form; as, catechise, criticise.
With regard to most words, however, which have this suffix there is a
diversity of usage, some authorities spelling -ise, others (as in
this book) -ize.

IZEDI
Iz"e*di, n.

Defn: One of an Oriental religious sect which worships Satan or the
Devil.
The Izedis or Yezdis, the so-called Devil worshipers, still remain a
numerous though oppressed people in Mesopotamia and adjacent
countries. Tylor.

IZEDISM
Iz"e*dism, n.

Defn: The religion of the Izedis.

IZZARD
Iz"zard, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Izard.

IZZARD
Iz"zard, n. Etym: [Formerly ezed, prob. fr. F. et zÉde and z.]

Defn: The letter z; -- formerly so called.


[END]

End of Project Gutenberg's Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***

***** This file should be named 29765-8.txt or 29765-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/7/6/29765/

Produced by Graham Lawrence

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
