The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***




Produced by Graham Lawrence

[START]

J

Defn: . J is the tenth letter of the English alphabet. It is a later
variant form of the Roman letter I, used to express a consonantal
sound, that is, originally, the sound of English y in yet. The forms
J and I have, until a recent time, been classed together, and they
have been used interchangeably.

Note: In medical prescriptions j is still used in place of i at the
end of a number, as a Roman numeral; as, vj, xij. J is etymologically
most closely related to i, y, g; as in jot, iota; jest, gesture;
join, jugular, yoke. See I. J is a compound vocal consonant, nearly
equivalent in sound to dzh. It is exactly the same as g in gem. See
Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 179, 211, 239.

JAAL GOAT
Jaal" goat`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of wild goat (Capra Nubiana) found in the mountains
of Abyssinia, Upper Egypt, and Arabia; -- called also beden, and
jaela.

JAB
Jab, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Job.]

Defn: To thrust; to stab; to punch. See Job, v. t. [Scot. & Colloq.
U. S.]

JAB
Jab, n.

Defn: A thrust or stab. [Scot. & Colloq. U. S.]

JABBER
Jab"ber, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jabbered; p. pr. & vb. n. Jabbering.]
Etym: [Cf. Gibber, Gabble.]

Defn: To talk rapidly, indistinctly, or unintelligibly; to utter
gibberish or nonsense; to chatter. Swift.

JABBER
Jab"ber, v. t.

Defn: To utter rapidly or indistinctly; to gabble; as, to jabber
French. Addison.

JABBER
Jab"ber, n.

Defn: Rapid or incoherent talk, with indistinct utterance; gibberish.
Swift.

JABBER
Jab"ber, n.

Defn: One who jabbers.

JABBERER
Jab"ber*er, n.

Defn: One who jabbers.

JABBERINGLY
Jab"ber*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a jabbering manner.

JABBERMENT
Jab"ber*ment, n.

Defn: Jabber. [R.] Milton.

JABBERNOWL
Jab"ber*nowl`, n.

Defn: Same as Jobbernowl.

JABIRU
Jab"i*ru, n. Etym: [Braz. jabirú, jaburú.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several large wading birds of the genera Mycteria and
Xenorhynchus, allied to the storks in form and habits.

Note: The American jabiru (Mycteria Americana) is white, with the
head and neck black and nearly bare of feathers. The East Indian and
Australian (Xenorhynchus Australis) has the neck, head, and back
covered with glossy, dark green feathers, changing on the head to
purple. The African jabiru (Mycteria, or Ephippiorhynchus,
Senegalensis) has the neck, head, wing coverts, and tail, black, and
is called also saddle-billed stork.

JABORANDI
Jab`o*ran"di, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The native name of a South American rutaceous shrub (Pilocarpus
pennatifolius). The leaves are used in medicine as an diaphoretic and
sialogogue.

JABORINE
Jab"o*rine, n. Etym: [From Jaborandi.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid found in jaborandi leaves, from which it is
extracted as a white amorphous substance. In its action it resembles
atropine.

JABOT
Jab"ot, n. Etym: [F.]

1. Originally, a kind of ruffle worn by men on the bosom of the
shirt.

2. An arrangement of lace or tulle, looped ornamentally, and worn by
women on the front of the dress.

JACAL
Ja*cal" (hä*käl"; 239), n. [Amer. Sp., fr. Mex. xacalli.]

Defn: In Mexico and the southwestern United States, a kind of
plastered house or hut, usually made by planting poles or timber in
the ground, filling in between them with screen work or wickerwork,
and daubing one or both sides with mud or adobe mortar; also, this
method of construction.

JACAMAR
Jac"a*mar`, n. Etym: [F. jacamar, Braz. jacamarica; cf. Sp. jacamar.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of tropical American birds of the
genus Galbula and allied genera. They are allied to the kingfishers,
but climb on tree trunks like nuthatches, and feed upon insects.
Their colors are often brilliant.

JACANA
Jac"a*na`, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. jacania.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any of several wading birds belonging to the genus Jacana and
several allied genera, all of which have spurs on the wings. They are
able to run about over floating water weeds by means of their very
long, spreading toes. Called also surgeon bird.

Note: The most common South American species is Jacana spinosa. The
East Indian or pheasant jacana (Hydrophasianus chirurgus) is
remarkable for having four very long, curved, middle tail feathers.

JACARANDA
Jac`a*ran"da, n. Etym: [Braz.; cf. Sp. & Pg. jacaranda.] (Bot.)
(a) The native Brazilian name for certain leguminous trees, which
produce the beautiful woods called king wood, tiger wood, and violet
wood.
(b) A genus of bignoniaceous Brazilian trees with showy trumpet-
shaped flowers.

JACARE
Jac"a*re`, n. Etym: [Pg. jacaré; of Brazilian origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cayman. See Yacare.

JACCHUS
Jac"chus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. Jacchus a mystic name of Bacchus, Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The common marmoset (Hapale vulgaris). Formerly, the name was
also applied to other species of the same genus.

JACCONET
Jac"co*net, n.

Defn: See Jaconet.

JACENT
Ja"cent, a. Etym: [L. jacens, p. pr. of jacere to lie: cf. F.
jacent.]

Defn: Lying at length; as, the jacent posture. [R.] Sir H. Wotton.

JACINTH
Ja"cinth, n. Etym: [F. jacinthe, L. hyacinthus. See Hyacinth.]

Defn: See Hyacinth. Tennyson.

JACK
Jack, n. Etym: [Pg. jaca, Malayalam, tsjaka.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large tree, the Artocarpus integrifolia, common in the East
Indies, closely allied to the breadfruit, from which it differs in
having its leaves entire. The fruit is of great size, weighing from
thirty to forty pounds, and through its soft fibrous matter are
scattered the seeds, which are roasted and eaten. The wood is of a
yellow color, fine grain, and rather heavy, and is much used in
cabinetwork. It is also used for dyeing a brilliant yellow. [Written
also jak.]

JACK
Jack, n. Etym: [F. Jacques James, L. Jacobus, Gr. Ya 'aq Jacob;
prop., seizing by the heel; hence, a supplanter. Cf. Jacobite,
Jockey.]

1. A familiar nickname of, or substitute for, John.
You are John Rugby, and you are Jack Rugby. Shak.

2. An impertinent or silly fellow; a simpleton; a boor; a clown;
also, a servant; a rustic. "Jack fool." Chaucer.
Since every Jack became a gentleman, There 's many a gentle person
made a Jack. Shak.

3. A popular colloquial name for a sailor; -- called also Jack tar,
and Jack afloat.

4. A mechanical contrivance, an auxiliary machine, or a subordinate
part of a machine, rendering convenient service, and often supplying
the place of a boy or attendant who was commonly called Jack; as:
(a) A device to pull off boots.
(b) A sawhorse or sawbuck.
(c) A machine or contrivance for turning a spit; a smoke jack, or
kitchen jack.
(b) (Mining) A wooden wedge for separating rocks rent by blasting.
(e) (Knitting Machine) A lever for depressing the sinkers which push
the loops down on the needles.
(f) (Warping Machine) A grating to separate and guide the threads; a
heck box.
(g) (Spinning) A machine for twisting the sliver as it leaves the
carding machine.
(h) A compact, portable machine for planing metal.
(i) A machine for slicking or pebbling leather.
(k) A system of gearing driven by a horse power, for multiplying
speed.
(l) A hood or other device placed over a chimney or vent pipe, to
prevent a back draught.
(m) In the harpsichord, an intermediate piece communicating the
action of the key to the quill; -- called also hopper.
(n) In hunting, the pan or frame holding the fuel of the torch used
to attract game at night; also, the light itself. C. Hallock.

5. A portable machine variously constructed, for exerting great
pressure, or lifting or moving a heavy body through a small distance.
It consists of a lever, screw, rack and pinion, hydraulic press, or
any simple combination of mechanical powers, working in a compact
pedestal or support and operated by a lever, crank, capstan bar, etc.
The name is often given to a jackscrew, which is a kind of jack.

6. The small bowl used as a mark in the game of bowls. Shak.
Like an uninstructed bowler who thinks to attain the jack by
delivering his bowl straight forward upon it. Sir W. Scott.

7. The male of certain animals, as of the ass.

8. (Zoöl.)
(a) A young pike; a pickerel.
(b) The jurel.
(c) A large, California rock fish (Sebastodes paucispinus); -- called
also boccaccio, and mérou.
(d) The wall-eyed pike.

9. A drinking measure holding half a pint; also, one holding a
quarter of a pint. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

10. (Naut.)
(a) A flag, containing only the union, without the fly, usually
hoisted on a jack staff at the bowsprit cap; -- called also union
jack. The American jack is a small blue flag, with a star for each
State.
(b) A bar of iron athwart ships at a topgallant masthead, to support
a royal mast, and give spread to the royal shrouds; -- called also
jack crosstree. R. H. Dana, Jr.

11. The knave of a suit of playing cards.

Note: Jack is used adjectively in various senses. It sometimes
designates something cut short or diminished in size; as, a jack
timber; a jack rafter; a jack arch, etc. Jack arch, an arch of the
thickness of one brick.
 -- Jack back (Brewing & Malt Vinegar Manuf.), a cistern which
receives the wort. See under 1st Back.
 -- Jack block (Naut.), a block fixed in the topgallant or royal
rigging, used for raising and lowering light masts and spars.
 -- Jack boots, boots reaching above the knee; -- worn in the 17
century by soldiers; afterwards by fishermen, etc.
 -- Jack crosstree. (Naut.) See 10, b, above.
 -- Jack curlew (Zoöl.), the whimbrel.
 -- Jack frame. (Cotton Spinning) See 4 (g), above.
 -- Jack Frost, frost personified as a mischievous person.
 -- Jack hare, a male hare. Cowper.
 -- Jack lamp, a lamp for still hunting and camp use. See def. 4
(n.), above.
 -- Jack plane, a joiner's plane used for coarse work.
 -- Jack post, one of the posts which support the crank shaft of a
deep-well-boring apparatus.
 -- Jack pot (Poker Playing), the name given to the stakes,
contributions to which are made by each player successively, till
such a hand is turned as shall take the "pot," which is the sum total
of all the bets.
 -- Jack rabbit (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large American
hares, having very large ears and long legs. The California species
(Lepus Californicus), and that of Texas and New Mexico (L. callotis),
have the tail black above, and the ears black at the tip. They do not
become white in winter. The more northern prairie hare (L.
campestris) has the upper side of the tail white, and in winter its
fur becomes nearly white.
 -- Jack rafter (Arch.), in England, one of the shorter rafters used
in constructing a hip or valley roof; in the United States, any
secondary roof timber, as the common rafters resting on purlins in a
trussed roof; also, one of the pieces simulating extended rafters,
used under the eaves in some styles of building.
 -- Jack salmon (Zoöl.), the wall-eyed pike, or glasseye.
 -- Jack sauce, an impudent fellow. [Colloq. & Obs.] -- Jack shaft
(Mach.), the first intermediate shaft, in a factory or mill, which
receives power, through belts or gearing, from a prime mover, and
transmits it, by the same means, to other intermediate shafts or to a
line shaft.
 -- Jack sinker (Knitting Mach.), a thin iron plate operated by the
jack to depress the loop of thread between two needles.
 -- Jack snipe. (Zoöl.) See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Jack staff (Naut.), a staff fixed on the bowsprit cap, upon which
the jack is hoisted.
 -- Jack timber (Arch.), any timber, as a rafter, rib, or studding,
which, being intercepted, is shorter than the others.
 -- Jack towel, a towel hung on a roller for common use.
 -- Jack truss (Arch.), in a hip roof, a minor truss used where the
roof has not its full section.
 -- Jack tree. (Bot.) See 1st Jack, n.
 -- Jack yard (Naut.), a short spar to extend a topsail beyond the
gaff. Blue jack, blue vitriol; sulphate of copper.
 -- Hydraulic jack, a jack used for lifting, pulling, or forcing,
consisting of a compact portable hydrostatic press, with its pump and
a reservoir containing a supply of liquid, as oil.
 -- Jack-at-a-pinch. (a) One called upon to take the place of another
in an emergency. (b) An itinerant parson who conducts an occasional
service for a fee.
 -- Jack-at-all-trades, one who can turn his hand to any kind of
work.
 -- Jack-by-the-hedge (Bot.), a plant of the genus Erysimum (E.
alliaria, or Alliaria officinalis), which grows under hedges. It
bears a white flower and has a taste not unlike garlic. Called also,
in England, sauce-alone. Eng. Cyc.
 -- Jack-in-a-box. (a) (Bot.) A tropical tree (Hernandia sonora),
which bears a drupe that rattles when dry in the inflated calyx. (b)
A child's toy, consisting of a box, out of which, when the lid is
raised, a figure springs. (c) (Mech.) An epicyclic train of bevel
gears for transmitting rotary motion to two parts in such a manner
that their relative rotation may be variable; applied to driving the
wheels of tricycles, road locomotives, and to cotton machinery, etc.;
an equation box; a jack frame; -- called also compensating gearing.
(d) A large wooden screw turning in a nut attached to the crosspiece
of a rude press.
 -- Jack-in-office, an insolent fellow in authority. Wolcott.
 -- Jack-in-the-bush (Bot.), a tropical shrub with red fruit (Cordia
Cylindrostachya).
 -- Jack-in-the-green, a chimney sweep inclosed in a framework of
boughs, carried in Mayday processions.
 -- Jack-in-the-pulpit (Bot.), the American plant Arisæma triphyllum,
or Indian turnip, in which the upright spadix is inclosed.
 -- Jack-of-the-buttery (Bot.), the stonecrop (Sedum acre).
 -- Jack-of-the-clock, a figure, usually of a man, on old clocks,
which struck the time on the bell.
 -- Jack-on-both-sides, one who is or tries to be neutral.
 -- Jack-out-of-office, one who has been in office and is turned out.
Shak.
 -- Jack the Giant Killer, the hero of a well-known nursery story.
 -- Jack-with-a-lantern, Jack-o'-lantern. (a) An ignis fatuus; a
will-o'-the-wisp. "[Newspaper speculations] supplying so many more
jack-o'-lanterns to the future historian." Lowell. (b) A lantern made
of a pumpkin so prepared as to show in illumination the features of a
human face, etc.
 -- Yellow Jack (Naut.), the yellow fever; also, the quarantine flag.
See Yellow flag, under Flag.

JACK
Jack, n. Etym: [F. jaque, jacque, perh. from the proper name Jacques.
Cf. Jacquerie.]

Defn: A coarse and cheap mediæval coat of defense, esp. one made of
leather.
Their horsemen are with jacks for most part clad. Sir J. Harrington.

JACK
Jack, n. Etym: [Named from its resemblance to a jack boot.]

Defn: A pitcher or can of waxed leather; -- called also black jack.
[Obs.] Dryden.

JACK
Jack, v. i.

Defn: To hunt game at night by means of a jack. See 2d Jack, n., 4,
n.

JACK
Jack, v. t.

Defn: To move or lift, as a house, by means of a jack or jacks. See
2d Jack, n., 5.

JACK-A-DANDY
Jack`-a-dan"dy, n.

Defn: A little dandy; a little, foppish, impertinent fellow.

JACKAL
Jack"al`, n. Etym: [Pers. shaghal: cf. OF. jackal, F. chacal; cf.
Skr. ç\'f0gala.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of carnivorous animals inhabiting
Africa and Asia, related to the dog and wolf. They are cowardly,
nocturnal, and gregarious. They feed largely on carrion, and are
noted for their piercing and dismal howling.

Note: The common species of Southern Asia (Canis aureus) is yellowish
gray, varied with brown on the shoulders, haunches, and legs. The
common African species (C. anthus) is darker in color.

2. One who does mean work for another's advantage, as jackals were
once thought to kill game which lions appropriated. [Colloq.] Ld.
Lytton.

JACK-A-LENT
Jack"-a-lent, n.

Defn: A small stuffed puppet to be pelted in Lent; hence, a simple
fellow.

JACKANAPES
Jack"a*napes, n. Etym: [For Jack o' (= of) apes; prop., a man who
exhibits apes.] [Written also jackanape.]

1. A monkey; an ape. Shak.

2. A coxcomb; an impertinent or conceited fellow.
A young upstart jackanapes. Arbuthnot.

JACKAROO; JACKEROO
Jack`a*roo", n. Also Jack`e*roo". [Jack + kangaroo.]

Defn: A young man living as an apprentice on a sheep station, or
otherwise engaged in acquainting himself with colonial life.
[Colloq., Australia]

JACKAROO
Jack`a*roo", v. i.

Defn: To be a jackaroo; to pass one's time as a jackaroo. [Colloq.,
Australia]

JACKASS
Jack"ass`, n. Etym: [2d jack + ass.]

1. The male ass; a donkey.

2. A conceited dolt; a perverse blockhead. Jackass bark (Naut.), a
three-masted vessel, with only the foremast square-rigged; a
barkentine.
 -- Jackass deer (Zoöl.), the koba.
 -- Jackass hare, Jackass rabbit (Zoöl.). See Jack rabbit, under 2d
Jack, n.
 -- Jackass penguin (Zoöl.), any species of penguin of the genus
Spheniscus, of which several are known. One species (S. demersus)
inhabits the islands near the Cape of Good Hope; another (S.
Magellanicus) is found at the Falkland Islands. They make a noise
like the braying of an ass; -- hence the name.
 -- Laughing jackass. (Zoöl.) See under Laughing.

JACKDAW
Jack"daw`, n. Etym: [Prob. 2d jack + daw, n.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Daw, n.

JACKEEN
Jack*een", n.

Defn: A drunken, dissolute fellow. [Ireland] S. C. Hall.

JACKET
Jack"et, n. Etym: [F. jaquette, dim. of jaque. See 3d Jack, n.]

1. A short upper garment, extending downward to the hips; a short
coat without skirts.

2. An outer covering for anything, esp. a covering of some
nonconducting material such as wood or felt, used to prevent
radiation of heat, as from a steam boiler, cylinder, pipe, etc.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: In ordnance, a strengthening band surrounding and reënforcing
the tube in which the charge is fired.

4. A garment resembling a waistcoat lined with cork, to serve as a
life preserver; -- called also cork jacket. Blue jacket. (Naut.) See
under Blue.
 -- Steam jacket, a space filled with steam between an inner and an
outer cylinder, or between a casing and a receptacle, as a kettle.
 -- To dust one's jacket, to give one a beating. [Colloq.]

JACKET
Jack"et, v. t.

1. To put a jacket on; to furnish, as a boiler, with a jacket.

2. To thrash; to beat. [Low]

JACKETED
Jack"et*ed, a.

Defn: Wearing, or furnished with, a jacket.

JACKETING
Jack"et*ing, n.

Defn: The material of a jacket; as, nonconducting jacketing.

JACK KETCH
Jack" Ketch". Etym: [Perh. fr. Jack, the proper name + Prov. E. ketch
a hangman, fr. ketch, for catch to seize; but see the citations
below.]

Defn: A public executioner, or hangman. [Eng.]
The manor of Tyburn was formerly held by Richard Jaquett, where
felons for a long time were executed; from whence we have Jack Ketch.
Lloyd's MS., British Museum.
[Monmouth] then accosted John Ketch, the executioner, a wretch who
had butchered many brave and noble victims, and whose name has,
during a century and a half, been vulgarly given to all who have
succeeded him in his odious office. Macaulay.

JACKKNIFE
Jack"knife`, n.

Defn: A large, strong clasp knife for the pocket; a pocket knife.

JACK-'-LANTERN
Jack"-o'-lan`tern, n.

Defn: See Jack-with-a-lantern, under 2d Jack.

JACKMAN
Jack"man, n.; pl. Jackmen (.

1. One wearing a jack; a horse soldier; a retainer. See 3d Jack, n.
Christie . . . the laird's chief jackman. Sir W. Scott.

2. A cream cheese. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

JACK-O'-LANTERN
Jack"-o'-lan`tern, n.

Defn: See Jack-with-a-lantern, under 2d Jack. JACKPOT
Jackpot

Defn: 1. (a) See "jack pot" under jack; (b) any larger-than-usual
gambling prize formed by the accumulation of unwon bets[=MW10 1(a)(2)
and 1(c)]; (c) the highest gambling prize awarded in a gambling game
in which smaller prizes are also awarded, especially such a prize on
a slot machine.

Defn: 2. (a) An unusually large success in an enterprise, either
unexpected or unpredictable, esp. one providing a great financial
benefit. hit the jackpotto receive an unexpectedly large (or the
largest possible) benefit from an enterprise.

JACKPUDDING
Jack"pud`ding, n.

Defn: A merry-andrew; a buffoon. Milton.

JACKSAW
Jack"saw`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The merganser.

JACKSCREW
Jack"screw`, n.

Defn: A jack in which a screw is used for lifting, or exerting
pressure. See Illust. of 2d Jack, n., 5.

JACKSLAVE
Jack"slave`, n.

Defn: A low servant; a mean fellow. Shak.

JACKSMITH
Jack"smith`, n.

Defn: A smith who makes jacks. See 2d Jack, 4, c. Dryden.

JACKSNIPE
Jack"snipe`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small European snipe (Limnocryptes gallinula); -- called also
judcock, jedcock, juddock, jed, and half snipe.
(b) A small American sandpiper (Tringa maculata); -- called also
pectoral sandpiper, and grass snipe.

JACKSTAY
Jack"stay`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A rail of wood or iron stretching along a yard of a vessel, to
which the sails are fastened.

JACKSTONE
Jack"stone`, n.
(a) One of the pebbles or pieces used in the game of jackstones.
(b) (pl.) A game played with five small stones or pieces of metal.
See 6th Chuck.

JACKSTRAW
Jack"straw`, n.

1. An effigy stuffed with straw; a scarecrow; hence, a man without
property or influence. Milton.

2. One of a set of straws of strips of ivory, bone, wood, etc., for
playing a child's game, the jackstraws being thrown confusedly
together on a table, to be gathered up singly by a hooked instrument,
without touching or disturbing the rest of the pile. See Spilikin.

JACKWOOD
Jack"wood`, n.

Defn: Wood of the jack (Artocarpus integrifolia), used in
cabinetwork.

JACKY
Jack"y, n.; pl. Jackies (#). Dim. or pet from Jack. Hence:
 (a) A landsman's nickname for a seaman, resented by the latter.
 (b) English gin. [Dial. Eng.]

JACOB
Ja"cob, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Jacob. See 2d Jack.]

Defn: A Hebrew patriarch (son of Isaac, and ancestor of the Jews),
who in a vision saw a ladder reaching up to heaven (Gen. xxviii. 12);
-- also called Israel.
And Jacob said . . . with my staff I passed over this Jordan, and now
I am become two bands. Gen. xxxii. 9, 10.
Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel. Gen. xxxii. 28.
Jacob's ladder. (a) (Bot.) A perennial herb of the genus Polemonium
(P. coeruleum), having corymbs of drooping flowers, usually blue.
Gray. (b) (Naut.) A rope ladder, with wooden steps, for going aloft.
R. H. Dana, Jr. (c) (Naut.) A succession of short cracks in a
defective spar.
 -- Jacob's membrane. See Retina.
 -- Jacob's staff. (a) A name given to many forms of staff or weapon,
especially in the Middle Ages; a pilgrim's staff. [Obs.] Spenser. (b)
(Surveying) See under Staff.

JACOBAEAN LILY
Jac`o*bæ"an lil"y. Etym: [See Jacobean.] (Bot.)

Defn: A bulbous plant (Amaryllis, or Sprekelia, formosissima) from
Mexico. It bears a single, large, deep, red, lilylike flower.
[Written also Jacobean.]

JACOBEAN; JACOBIAN
Ja*co"be*an, Ja*co"bi*an, a. Etym: [From L. Jacobus James. See 2d
Jack.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a style of architecture and decoration in
the time of James the First, of England. "A Jacobean table." C. L.
Eastlake.

JACOBIN
Jac"o*bin, n. Etym: [F. See 2d Jack, Jacobite.]

1. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A Dominican friar; -- so named because, before the French
Revolution, that order had a convent in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris.

2. One of a society of violent agitators in France, during the
revolution of 1789, who held secret meetings in the Jacobin convent
in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris, and concerted measures to control the
proceedings of the National Assembly. Hence: A plotter against an
existing government; a turbulent demagogue.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fancy pigeon, in which the feathers of the neck form a hood,
-- whence the name. The wings and tail are long, and the beak
moderately short.

JACOBIN
Jac"o*bin, a.

Defn: Same as Jacobinic.

JACOBINE
Jac"o*bine, n.

Defn: A Jacobin.

JACOBINIC; JACOBINICAL
Jac`o*bin"ic, Jac`o*bin"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Jacobins of France; revolutionary; of
the nature of, or characterized by, Jacobinism. Burke.
 -- Jac`o*bin"ic*al*ly, adv.

JACOBINISM
Jac"o*bin*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Jacobinisme.]

Defn: The principles of the Jacobins; violent and factious opposition
to legitimate government.
Under this new stimulus, Burn's previous Jacobitism passed towards
the opposite, but not very distant, extreme of Jacobinism. J. C.
Shairp.

JACOBINIZE
Jac"o*bin*ize`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jacobinized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Jacobinizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. Jacobiniser.]

Defn: To taint with, or convert to, Jacobinism.
France was not then jacobinized. Burke.

JACOBITE
Jac"o*bite, n. Etym: [L. Jacobus James: cf. F. Jacobite. See 2d
Jack.]

1. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A partisan or adherent of James the Second, after his
abdication, or of his descendants, an opposer of the revolution in
1688 in favor of William and Mary. Macaulay.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: One of the sect of Syrian Monophysites. The sect is named after
Jacob Baradæus, its leader in the sixth century.

JACOBITE
Jac"o*bite, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Jacobites.

JACOBITIC; JACOBITICAL
Jac`o*bit"ic, Jac`o*bit"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Jacobites; characterized by Jacobitism.
 -- Jac`o*bit"ic*al*ly, adv.

JACOBITISM
Jac"o*bit*ism`, n.

Defn: The principles of the Jacobites. Mason.

JACOBUS
Ja*co"bus, n.; pl. Jacobuses. Etym: [See Jacobite.]

Defn: An English gold coin, of the value of twenty-five shillings
sterling, struck in the reign of James I.

JACONET
Jac"o*net, n. Etym: [F. jaconas.]

Defn: A thin cotton fabric, between and muslin, used for dresses,
neckcloths, etc. [Written also jacconet.]

JACQUARD
Jac*quard", a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or invented by, Jacquard, a French mechanician,
who died in 1834. Jacquard apparatus or arrangement, a device applied
to looms for weaving figured goods, consisting of mechanism
controlled by a chain of variously perforated cards, which cause the
warp threads to be lifted in the proper succession for producing the
required figure.
 -- Jacquard card, one of the perforated cards of a Jacquard
apparatus.
 -- Jackquard loom, a loom with Jacquard apparatus.

JACQUEMINOT
Jacque"mi*not, n.

Defn: A half-hardy, deep crimson rose of the remontant class; -- so
named after General Jacqueminot, of France.

JACQUERIE
Jacque`rie", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The name given to a revolt of French peasants against the
nobles in 1358, the leader assuming the contemptuous title, Jacques
Bonhomme, given by the nobles to the peasantry. Hence, any revolt of
peasants.

JACTANCY
Jac"tan*cy, n. Etym: [L. jactantia, fr. jactans, p. pr. of jactare to
throw, boast, freq. fr. jacere to throw; cf. F. jactance.]

Defn: A boasting; a bragging. [Obs.]

JACTATION
Jac*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. jactatio, fr. jactare: af. F. jactation.
See Jactancy.]

Defn: A throwing or tossing of the body; a shaking or agitation. Sir.
W. Temple.

JACTITATION
Jac"ti*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. jactitare to utter in public, from
jactare. See Jactancy.]

1. (Law)

Defn: Vain boasting or assertions repeated to the prejudice of
another's right; false claim. Mozley & W.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A frequent tossing or moving of the body; restlessness, as in
delirium. Dunglison. Jactitation of marriage (Eng. Eccl. Law), a
giving out or boasting by a party that he or she is married to
another, whereby a common reputation of their matrimony may ensue.
Blackstone.

JACULABLE
Jac"u*la*ble, a.

Defn: Fit for throwing. [Obs.]

JACULATE
Jac"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jaculated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Jaculating.] Etym: [L. jaculatus, p. p. of jaculari. See Ejaculate.]

Defn: To throw or cast, as a dart; to throw out; to emit.

JACULATION
Jac`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. jaculatio.]

Defn: The act of tossing, throwing, or hurling, as spears.
Hurled to and fro with jaculation dire. Milton.

JACULATOR
Jac"u*la`tor, Etym: [L.]

1. One who throws or casts. [R.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The archer fish (Toxotes jaculator).

JACULATORY
Jac"u*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. jaculatorius: cf. F. jaculatoire.]

Defn: Darting or throwing out suddenly; also, suddenly thrown out;
uttered in short sentences; ejaculatory; as, jaculatory prayers.
Smart.

JADDING
Jad"ding, n. (Mining)

Defn: See Holing.

JADE
Jade, n. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. jade, fr. piedra de ijada stone of the
side, fr. ijada flank, side, pain in the side, the stone being so
named because it was supposed to cure this pain. Sp. ijada is derived
fr. L. ilia flanks. Cf. Iliac.] (Min.)

Defn: A stone, commonly of a pale to dark green color but sometimes
whitish. It is very hard and compact, capable of fine polish, and is
used for ornamental purposes and for implements, esp. in Eastern
countries and among many early peoples.

Note: The general term jade includes nephrite, a compact variety of
tremolite with a specific gravity of 3, and also the mineral jadeite,
a silicate of alumina and soda, with a specific gravity of 3.3. The
latter is the more highly prized and includes the feitsui of the
Chinese. The name has also been given to other tough green minerals
capable of similar use.

JADE
Jade, n. Etym: [OE. jade; cf. Prov. E. yaud, Scot. yade, yad, yaud,
Icel. jalda a mare.]

1. A mean or tired horse; a worthless nag. Chaucer.
Tired as a jade in overloaden cart. Sir P. Sidney.

2. A disreputable or vicious woman; a wench; a quean; also,
sometimes, a worthless man. Shak.
She shines the first of battered jades. Swift.

3. A young woman; -- generally so called in irony or slight contempt.
A souple jade she was, and strang. Burns.

JADE
Jade, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Jading.]

1. To treat like a jade; to spurn. [Obs.] Shak.

2. To make ridiculous and contemptible. [Obs.]
I do now fool myself, to let imagination jade me. Shak.

3. To exhaust by overdriving or long-continued labor of any kind; to
tire or wear out by severe or tedious tasks; to harass.
The mind, once jaded by an attempt above its power, . . . checks at
any vigorous undertaking ever after. Locke.

Syn.
 -- To fatigue; tire; weary; harass.
 -- To Jade, Fatigue, Tire, Weary. Fatigue is the generic term; tire
denotes fatigue which wastes the strength; weary implies that a
person is worn out by exertion; jade refers to the weariness created
by a long and steady repetition of the same act or effort. A little
exertion will tire a child or a weak person; a severe or protracted
task wearies equally the body and the mind; the most powerful horse
becomes jaded on a long journey by a continual straining of the same
muscles. Wearied with labor of body or mind; tired of work, tired out
by importunities; jaded by incessant attention to business.

JADE
Jade, v. i.

Defn: To become weary; to lose spirit.
They . . . fail, and jade, and tire in the prosecution. South.

JADEITE
Jade"ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Jade, the stone.

JADERY
Jad"er*y, n.

Defn: The tricks of a jade.

JADISH
Jad"ish, a.

1. Vicious; ill-tempered; resembling a jade; -- applied to a horse.

2. Unchaste; -- applied to a woman. L'Estrange.

JAEGER
Jae"ger, n.

Defn: See Jager.

JAG
Jag, n. Etym: [Prob. of Celtic origin; cf. W. gag aperture, cleft,
chink; akin to Ir. & Gael. gag.] [Written also jagg.]

1. A notch; a cleft; a barb; a ragged or sharp protuberance; a
denticulation.
Arethuss arose . . . From rock and from jag. Shelley.
Garments thus beset with long jags. Holland.

2. A part broken off; a fragment. Bp. Hacket.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A cleft or division. Jag bolt, a bolt with a nicked or barbed
shank which resists retraction, as when leaded into stone.

JAG
Jag, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Jagging.]

Defn: To cut into notches or teeth like those of a saw; to notch.
[Written also jagg. Jagging iron, a wheel with a zigzag or jagged
edge for cutting cakes or pastry into ornamental figures.

JAG
Jag, n. Etym: [Scot. jag, jaug, a leather bag or wallet, a pocket.
Cf. Jag a notch.]

Defn: A small load, as of hay or grain in the straw, or of ore.
[Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] [Written also jagg.] Forby.

JAG
Jag, v. t.

Defn: To carry, as a load; as, to jag hay, etc. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq.
U.S.]

JAGANATHA; JAGANATHA
Jag`a*nat"ha, Jag`a*nat"ha, n.

Defn: See Juggernaut.

JAGANNATH; JAGANNATHA; JUGGERNAUT
Jag"an*nath, Jag`an*na"tha, n. Also Jug"ger*naut. [Hind. Jagan-nath
lord of the world, Skr. jagannatha.] (Hinduism)

Defn: A particular form of Vishnu, or of Krishna, whose chief idol
and worship are at Puri, in Orissa. The idol is considered to contain
the bones of Krishna and to possess a soul. The principal festivals
are the Snanayatra, when the idol is bathed, and the Rathayatra, when
the image is drawn upon a car adorned with obscene paintings.
Formerly it was erroneously supposed that devotees allowed themselves
to be crushed beneath the wheels of this car. It is now known that
any death within the temple of Jagannath is considered to render the
place unclean, and any spilling of blood in the presence of the idol
is a pollution.

JAGER
Ja"ger, n. Etym: [G. jäger a hunter, a sportsman. Cf. Yager.]
[Written also jaeger.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A sharpshooter. See Yager.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of gull of the genus Stercorarius. Three species
occur on the Atlantic coast. The jagers pursue other species of gulls
and force them to disgorge their prey. The two middle tail feathers
are usually decidedly longer than the rest. Called also boatswain,
and marline-spike bird. The name is also applied to the skua, or
Arctic gull (Megalestris skua).

JAGG
Jagg, v. t. & n.

Defn: See Jag.

JAGGED
Jag"ged, a.

Defn: Having jags; having rough, sharp notches, protuberances, or
teeth; cleft; laciniate; divided; as, jagged rocks. " Jagged vine
leaves' shade." Trench.
 -- Jag"ged*ly, adv.
 -- Jag"ged*ness, n.

JAGGER
Jag"ger, n.

Defn: One who carries about a small load; a peddler. See 2d Jag.
[Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

JAGGER
Jag"ger, n. Etym: [From 4th Jag.]

Defn: One who, or that which, jags; specifically: (a) jagging iron
used for crimping pies, cakes, etc. (b) A toothed chisel. See Jag, v.
t. Jagger spring, a spring beneath a seat, and resting on cleats or
blocks in the body of a vehicle. Knight.

JAGGERY
Jag"ger*y, n. Etym: [Hind jagri. Cf. Sugar.]

Defn: Raw palm sugar, made in the East Indies by evaporating the
fresh juice of several kinds of palm trees, but specifically that of
the palmyra (Borassus flabelliformis). [Written also jagghery.]

JAGGERY PALM
Jag"ger*y palm.

Defn: An East Indian palm (Caryota urens) having leaves pinnate with
wedge-shaped divisions, the petiole very stout. It is the principal
source of jaggery, and is often cultivated for ornament.

JAGGY
Jag"gy, a.

Defn: Having jags; set with teeth; notched; uneven; as, jaggy teeth.
Addison.

JAGHIR
Ja"ghir, n. Etym: [Per. jagir.]

Defn: A village or district the government and revenues of which are
assigned to some person, usually in consideration of some service to
be rendered, esp. the maintenance of troops. [Written also jaghire,
jagir, etc.] [India] Whitworth.

JAGHIRDAR
Ja"ghir*dar`, n. Etym: [Per. jagir-dar.]

Defn: The holder of a jaghir.

JAGUA PALM
Ja"gua palm`. Etym: [Sp. jagua the fruit of the jagua palm.] (Bot.)

Defn: A great Brazilian palm (Maximiliana regia), having immense
spathes which are used for baskets and tubs.

JAGUAR
Ja*guar", n. Etym: [Braz. yagoára: cf. & Pg. jaguar.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large and powerful feline animal (Felis onca), ranging from
Texas and Mexico to Patagonia. It is usually brownish yellow, with
large, dark, somewhat angular rings, each generally inclosing one or
two dark spots. It is chiefly arboreal in its habits. Called also the
American tiger.

JAGUARONDI
Ja`gua*ron"di, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American wild cat (Felis jaguarondi), having a long,
slim body and very short legs. Its color is grayish brown, varied
with a blackish hue. It is arboreal in its habits and feeds mostly on
birds.

JAH
Jah (jä), n. Etym: [Heb. yah.]

Defn: Jehovah. Ps. lxviii. 4.

JAHVIST; JAHVISTIC
Jah"vist, n., Jah*vis"tic, a.

Defn: See Jehovist, Jehovistic.

JAIL
Jail, n. Etym: [OE. jaile, gail, gayhol, OF. gaole, gaiole, jaiole,
F. geôle, LL. gabiola, dim. of gabia cage, for L. cavea cavity, cage.
See Cage.]

Defn: A kind of prison; a building for the confinement of persons
held in lawful custody, especially for minor offenses or with
reference to some future judicial proceeding. [Written also gaol.]
This jail I count the house of liberty. Milton.
Jail bird, a prisoner; one who has been confined in prison. [Slang] -
- Jail delivery, the release of prisoners from jail, either legally
or by violence.
 -- Jail delivery commission. See under Gaol.
 -- Jail fever (Med.), typhus fever, or a disease resembling it,
generated in jails and other places crowded with people; -- called
also hospital fever, and ship fever.
 -- Jail liberties, or Jail limits, a space or district around a jail
within which an imprisoned debtor was, on certain conditions, allowed
to go at large. Abbott.
 -- Jail lock, a peculiar form of padlock; -- called also
Scandinavian lock.

JAIL
Jail, v. t.

Defn: To imprison. [R.] T. Adams (1614).
[Bolts] that jail you from free life. Tennyson.

JAILER
Jail"er, n. Etym: [OE. jailer, gailer, OF. geolier, F. geôlier. See
Jail.]

Defn: The keeper of a jail or prison. [Written also jailor, gaoler.]

JAIN; JAINA
Jain, Jai"na, n. Etym: [Skr. Jaina, fr. Jina, a proper name, fr. jina
victorious.]

Defn: One of a numerous sect in British India, holding the tenets of
Jainism.

JAINISM
Jain"ism, n.

Defn: The heterodox Hindoo religion, of which the most striking
features are the exaltation of saints or holy mortals, called jins,
above the ordinary Hindoo gods, and the denial of the divine origin
and infallibility of the Vedas. It is intermediate between Brahmanism
and Buddhism, having some things in common with each.

JAIROU
Jai*rou", n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ahu or Asiatic gazelle.

JAK
Jak, n. (Bot.)

Defn: see Ils Jack.

JAKES
Jakes, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. F. Jacques, the proper name. See 2d Jack.]

Defn: A privy. Shak.

JAKIE
Ja"kie, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American striped frog (Pseudis paradoxa), remarkable
for having a tadpole larger than the adult, and hence called also
paradoxical frog.

JAKO
Jak"o (jâk"o), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An African parrot (Psittacus erithacus), very commonly kept as
a cage bird; -- called also gray parrot.

JAKWOOD
Jak"wood`, n.

Defn: See Jackwood.

JALAP
Jal"ap, n. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. jalapa; -- so called from Jalapa, a
town in Mexico, whence it was first obtained.] (Med.)

Defn: The tubers of the Mexican plant Ipomoea purga (or Exogonium
purga), a climber much like the morning-glory. The abstract, extract,
and powder, prepared from the tubers, are well known purgative
medicines. Other species of Ipomoea yield several inferior kinds of
jalap, as the I. Orizabensis, and I. tuberosa. False jalap, the root
of Mirabilis Jalapa, four-o'clock, or marvel of Peru.

JALAPIC
Ja*lap"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to jalap.

JALAPIN
Jal"a*pin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside found in the stems of the jalap plant and scammony.
It is a strong purgative.

JALONS
Ja`lons", n. pl. Etym: [F. Of unknown origin.] (Mil.)

Defn: Long poles, topped with wisps of straw, used as landmarks and
signals. Farrow.

JALOUSIE
Ja`lou`sie", n. Etym: [F. See Jealousy.]

Defn: A Venetian or slatted inside window blind.

JALOUSIED
Ja`lou`sied", a.

Defn: Furnished with jalousies; as, jalousied porches.

JAM
Jam, n. Etym: [Per. or Hind. jamah garment, robe.]

Defn: A kind of frock for children.

JAM
Jam, n. (Mining)

Defn: See Jamb.

JAM
Jam, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jammed; p. pr. & vb. n. Jamming.] Etym:
[Either fr. jamb, as if squeezed between jambs, or more likely from
the same source as champ See Champ.]

1. To press into a close or tight position; to crowd; to squeeze; to
wedge in.
The . . . jammed in between two rocks. De Foe.

2. To crush or bruise; as, to jam a finger in the crack of a door.
[Colloq.]

3. (Naut.)

Defn: To bring (a vessel) so close to the wind that half her upper
sails are laid aback. W. C. Russell.

JAM
Jam, n.

1. A mass of people or objects crowded together; also, the pressure
from a crowd; a crush; as, a jam in a street; a jam of logs in a
river.

2. An injury caused by jamming. [Colloq.]

JAM
Jam, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. jam, v.; but cf. also Ar. jamad ice, jelly,
jamid congealed, jamd congelation, ice.]

Defn: A preserve of fruit boiled with sugar and water; as, raspberry
jam; currant jam; grape jam. Jam nut. See Check nut, under Check.
 -- Jam weld (Forging), a butt weld. See under Butt.

JAMACINA
Jam`a*ci"na, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Jamaicine.

JAMADAR
Jam"a*dar, n.

Defn: Same as Jemidar.

JAMAICA
Ja*mai"ca, n.

Defn: One of the West India is islands. Jamaica ginger, a variety of
ginger, called also white ginger, prepared in Jamaica from the best
roots, which are deprived of their epidermis and dried separately.
 -- Jamaica pepper, allspice.
 -- Jamaica rose (Bot.), a West Indian melastomaceous shrub (Blakea
trinervis), with showy pink flowers.

JAMAICAN
Ja*mai"can, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Jamaica.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Jamaica.

JAMAICINE
Ja*ma"i*cine, n. Etym: [From Jamaica.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid said to be contained in the bark of Geoffroya
inermis, a leguminous tree growing in Jamaica and Surinam; -- called
also jamacina. Watts.

JAMB
Jamb, n. Etym: [Prov. E. jaumb, jaum, F. jambe a leg, jambe de force
a principal rafter. See Gambol.]

1. (Arch)

Defn: The vertical side of any opening, as a door or fireplace;
hence, less properly, any narrow vertical surface of wall, as the of
a chimney-breast or of a pier, as distinguished from its face. Gwilt.

2. (Mining)

Defn: Any thick mass of rock which prevents miners from following the
lode or vein.

JAMB
Jamb, v. t.

Defn: See Jam, v. t.

JAMBEE
Jam*bee", n. Etym: [See Jamb, n.: cf. OF. jamboier to walk.]

Defn: A fashionable cane. [Obs.] Tatler.

JAMBES; JAMBEUX
Jambes, Jam"beux, n. pl. Etym: [From F. jambe a leg: cf. OF.
jambiere. See Jamb, n.] (Ancient Armor)

Defn: In the Middle Ages, armor for the legs below the knees.
[Written also giambeux.] Chaucer.

JAMBOLANA
Jam`bo*la"na, n. Etym: [Cf. Pg. jambolao a kind of tropical fruit.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A myrtaceous tree of the West Indies and tropical America
(Calyptranthes Jambolana), with astringent bark, used for dyeing. It
bears an edible fruit.

JAMBOOL; JAMBUL
Jam"bool, Jam"bul, n. [Hind. jambu, jambul, prop., the rose-apple
tree or its fruit, fr. Skr. jambu, jambu.]

Defn: The Java plum; also, a drug obtained from its bark and seeds,
used as a remedy for diabetes.

JAMBOOREE
Jam`boo*ree", n. [Etym. uncertain. Cf. Jambone.]

Defn: A noisy or unrestrained carousal or frolic; a spree. [Slang]
Kipling.

A Calcutta-made pony cart had been standing in front of the manager's
bungalow when Raja Singh started on his jamboree.
W. A. Fraser.

JAMDANI
Jam"da*ni, n.

Defn: A silk fabric, with a woven pattern of sprigs of flowers.
[Written also jamdanee.] Balfour (Cyc. of India).

JAMESONITE
Ja"me*son*ite, n. Etym: [From Prof. Jameson, of Edinburgh.] (Min.)

Defn: A steel-gray mineral, of metallic luster, commonly fibrous
massive. It is a sulphide of antimony and lead, with a little iron.

JAMES'S POWDER
James"'s pow`der. (Med.)

Defn: Antimonial powder, first prepared by Dr. James, ar English
physician; -- called also fever powder.

JAMESTOWN WEED
James"town` weed`. (Bot.)

Defn: The poisonous thorn apple or stramonium (Datura stramonium), a
rank weed early noticed at Jamestown, Virginia. See Datura.

Note: This name is often corrupted into jimson, jimpson, and gympsum.

JAN
Jan, n. Etym: [Ar.] (Moham. Myth.)

Defn: One of intermediate order between angels and men.

JANE
Jane, n. Etym: [LL. Janua Genoa; L. Genua, also OE. Jean.]

1. A coin of Genoa; any small coin. Chaucer.

2. A kind of twilled cotton cloth. See Jean.

JANE-OF-APES
Jane"-of-apes", n.

Defn: A silly, pert girl; -- corresponding to jackanapes. Massinger.

JANGLE
Jan"gle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jangled; p. pr. & vb. n. Jangling.]
Etym: [OE. janglen to quarrel, OF. jangler to rail, quarrel; of Dutch
or German origin; cf. D. jangelen, janken, to whimper, chide, brawl,
quarrel.]

1. To sound harshly or discordantly, as bells out of tune.

2. To talk idly; to prate; to babble; to chatter; to gossip. "Thou
janglest as a jay." Chaucer.

3. To quarrel in words; to altercate; to wrangle.
Good wits will be jangling; but, gentles, agree. Shak.
Prussian Trenck . . . jargons and jangles in an unmelodious manner.
Carlyle.

JANGLE
Jan"gle, v. t.

Defn: To cause to sound harshly or inharmoniously; to produce
discordant sounds with.
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune, and harsh. Shak.

JANGLE
Jan"gle, n. Etym: [Cf. OF.jangle.]

1. Idle talk; prate; chatter; babble. Chaucer.

2. Discordant sound; wrangling.
The musical jangle of sleigh bells. Longfellow.

JANGLER
Jan"gler, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. jangleor.]

1. An idle talker; a babbler; a prater. Chaucer.

2. A wrangling, noisy fellow.

JANGLERESS
Jan"gler*ess, n.

Defn: A female prater or babbler.

JANGLERY
Jan"gler*y, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. janglerie chattering, talk.]

Defn: Jangling. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JANGLING
Jan"gling, a.

Defn: Producing discordant sounds. "A jangling noise." Milton.

JANGLING
Jan"gling, n.

1. Idle babbling; vain disputation.
From which some, having swerved, have turned aside unto vain
jangling. 1 Tim. i. 6.

2. Wrangling; altercation. Lamb.

JANISSARY
Jan"is*sa*ry, n.

Defn: See Janizary.

JANITOR
Jan"i*tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. janua a door.]

Defn: A door-keeper; a porter; one who has the care of a public
building, or a building occupied for offices, suites of rooms, etc.

JANITRESS; JANITRIX
Jan"i*tress, Jan"i*trix, n. Etym: [L. janitrix. See Janitor.]

Defn: A female janitor.

JANIZAR
Jan"i*zar`, n.

Defn: A janizary. [R.] Byron.

JANIZARIAN
Jan`i*za"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the janizaries, or their government. Burke.

JANIZARY
Jan"i*za*ry, n.; pl. Janizaries. Etym: [F. janissaire, fr. Turk. ye
new soldiers or troops.]

Defn: A soldier of a privileged military class, which formed the
nucleus of the Turkish infantry, but was suppressed in 1826. [written
also janissary.]

JANKER
Jan"ker, n.

Defn: A long pole on two wheels, used in hauling logs. [Scot.]
Jamieson.

JANSENISM
Jan"sen*ism, n. Etym: [F. Jansénisme.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: The doctrine of Jansen regarding free will and divine grace.

JANSENIST
Jan"sen*ist, n. Etym: [F. Janséniste.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of Cornelius Jansen, a Roman Catholic bishop of
Ypres, in Flanders, in the 17th century, who taught certain doctrines
denying free will and the possibility of resisting divine grace.

JANT
Jant, v. i.

Defn: See Jaunt.

JANTHINA
Jan"thi*na, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Ianthina.

JANTILY
Jan"ti*ly, adv.

Defn: See Jauntily.

JANTINESS
Jan"ti*ness, n.

Defn: See Jauntiness.

JANTU
Jan"tu n.

Defn: A machine of great antiquity, used in Bengal for raising water
to irrigate land. Knight.

JANTY
Jan"ty, a.

Defn: See Jaunty.

JANUARY
Jan"u*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. Januarius, fr. Janus an old Latin deity, the
god of the sun and the year, to whom the month of January was sacred;
cf. janua a door, Skr. ya to go.]

Defn: The first month of the year, containing thirty-one days.

Note: Before the adoption of New Style, the commencement of the year
was usually reckoned from March 25.

JANUS
Ja"nus, n. Etym: [L. See January.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A Latin deity represented with two faces looking in opposite
directions. Numa is said to have dedicated to Janus the covered
passage at Rome, near the Forum, which is usually called the Temple
of Janus. This passage was open in war and closed in peace. Dr. W.
Smith. Janus cloth, a fabric having both sides dressed, the sides
being of different colors, -- used for reversible garments.

JANUS-FACED
Ja"nus-faced`, a.

Defn: Double-faced; deceitful. Janus-faced lock, one having duplicate
faces so as to go upon a right or a left hand door, the key entering
on either side indifferently. Knight.

JANUS-HEADED
Ja"nus-head`ed, a.

Defn: Double-headed.

JAPAN
Ja*pan", n. Etym: [From Japan, the country.]

Defn: Work varnished and figured in the Japanese manner; also, the
varnish or lacquer used in japanning.

JAPAN
Ja*pan", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Japan, or to the lacquered work of that
country; as, Japan ware. Japan allspice (Bot.), a spiny shrub from
Japan (Chimonanthus fragrans), related to the Carolina allspice.
 -- Japan black (Chem.), a quickly drying black lacquer or varnish,
consisting essentially of asphaltum dissolved in naphtha or
turpentine, and used for coating ironwork; -- called also Brunswick
black, Japan lacquer, or simply Japan.
 -- Japan camphor, ordinary camphor brought from China or Japan, as
distinguished from the rare variety called borneol or Borneo camphor.
 -- Japan clover, or Japan pea (Bot.), a cloverlike plant (Lespedeza
striata) from Eastern Asia, useful for fodder, first noticed in the
Southern United States about 1860, but now become very common. During
the Civil War it was called variously Yankee clover and Rebel clover.
 -- Japan earth. See Catechu.
 -- Japan ink, a kind of writing ink, of a deep, glossy black when
dry.
 -- Japan varnish, a varnish prepared from the milky juice of the
Rhus vernix, a small Japanese tree related to the poison sumac.

JAPAN
Ja*pan", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Japanned; p. pr. & vb. n. Japanning.]

1. To cover with a coat of hard, brilliant varnish, in the manner of
the Japanese; to lacquer.

2. To give a glossy black to, as shoes. [R.] Gay.

JAPAN CURRENT
Japan current.

Defn: A branch of the equatorial current of the Pacific, washing the
eastern coast of Formosa and thence flowing northeastward past Japan
and merging into the easterly drift of the North Pacific; -- called
also Kuro-Siwo, or Black Stream, in allusion to the deep blue of its
water. It is similar in may ways to the Gulf Stream.

JAPANESE
Jap`a*nese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Japan, or its inhabitants.

JAPANESE
Jap`a*nese", n. sing. & pl.

1. A native or inhabitant of Japan; collectively, the people of
Japan.

2. sing.

Defn: The language of the people of Japan.

JAPANNED
Ja*panned", a.

Defn: Treated, or coated, with varnish in the Japanese manner.
Japanned leather,leather treated with coatings of Japan varnish, and
dried in a stove. Knight.

JAPANNER
Ja*pan"ner, n.

1. One who varnishes in the manner of the Japanese, or one skilled in
the art.

2. A bootblack. [R.]

JAPANNING
Ja*pan"ning, n.

Defn: The art or act of varnishing in the Japanese manner.

JAPANNISH
Ja*pan"nish, a.

Defn: After the manner of the Japanese; resembling japanned articles.
Carlyle.

JAPE
Jape, v. i. Etym: [Prob. from the same source as gab,influenced by F.
japper to yelp. See Gab to deceive.]

Defn: To jest; to play tricks; to jeer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JAPE
Jape, v. t.

Defn: To mock; to trick. Chaucer.
I have not been putting a jape upon you. Sir W. Scott.
The coy giggle of the young lady to whom he has imparted his latest
merry jape. W. Besant.

JAPER
Jap"er, n.

Defn: A jester; a buffoon. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JAPERY
Jap"er*y, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. japerie a yelping.]

Defn: Jesting; buffoonery. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JAPHETHITE
Ja"pheth*ite, n.

Defn: A Japhetite. Kitto.

JAPHETIC
Ja*phet"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, Japheth, one of the sons of
Noah; as, Japhetic nations, the nations of Europe and Northern Asia;
Japhetic languages.

JAPHETITE
Ja"phet*ite, n.

Defn: A descendant of Japheth.

JAPONICA
Ja*pon"i*ca, n. Etym: [NL., Japanese, fr. Japonia Japan.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Camellia (Camellia Japonica), a native of Japan,
bearing beautiful red or white flowers. Many other genera have
species of the same name.

JAPONISM
Jap"o*nism, n. [F. japonisme, fr. Japon Japan.]

Defn: A quality, idiom, or peculiarity characteristic of the Japanese
or their products, esp. in art.

JAR
Jar, n. Etym: [See Ajar.]

Defn: A turn. [Only in phrase.] On the jar, on the turn, ajar, as a
door.

JAR
Jar, n. Etym: [F. jarre, Sp. jarra, from Ar. jarrah ewer; cf. Pers.
jarrah.]

1. A deep, broad-mouthed vessel of earthenware or glass, for holding
fruit, preserves, etc., or for ornamental purposes; as, a jar of
honey; a rose jar. Dryden.

2. The measure of what is contained in a jar; as, a jar of oil; a jar
of preserves. Bell jar, Leyden jar. See in the Vocabulary.

JAR
Jar, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jarred; p. pr. & vb. n. jarring.] Etym: [Cf.
OE. charken to creak, AS. cearcian to gnash, F. jars a gander, L.
garrire to chatter, prate, OHG. kerran to chatter, croak, G. quarren
to grumble, and E. jargon, ajar.]

1. To give forth a rudely quivering or tremulous sound; to sound
harshly or discordantly; as, the notes jarred on my ears.
When such strings jar, what hope of harmony Shak.
A string may jar in the best master's hand. Roscommon.

2. To act in opposition or disagreement; to clash; to interfere; to
quarrel; to dispute.
When those renowned noble peers Greece Through stubborn pride among
themselves did jar. Spenser.
For orders and degrees Jar not with liberty, but well consist.
Milton.

JAR
Jar, v. t.

1. To cause a short, tremulous motion of, to cause to tremble, as by
a sudden shock or blow; to shake; to shock; as, to jar the earth; to
jar one's faith.

2. To tick; to beat; to mark or tell off. [Obs.]
My thoughts are minutes, and with sighs they jar Their watches on
unto mine eyes. Shak.

JAR
Jar, n.

1. A rattling, tremulous vibration or shock; a shake; a harsh sound;
a discord; as, the jar of a train; the jar of harsh sounds.

2. Clash of interest or opinions; collision; discord; debate; slight
disagreement.
And yet his peace is but continual jar. Spenser.
Cease, cease these jars, and rest your minds in peace. Shak.

3. A regular vibration, as of a pendulum.
I love thee not a jar of the clock. Shak.

4. pl.

Defn: In deep well boring, a device resembling two long chain links,
for connecting a percussion drill to the rod or rope which works it,
so that the drill is driven down by impact and is jerked loose when
jammed.

JARARACA
Jar`a*ra"ca, n. Etym: [Pg., from the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A poisonous serpent of Brazil (Bothrops jararaca), about
eighteen inches long, and of a dusky, brownish color, variegated with
red and black spots.

JARBLE
Jar"ble, v. t.

Defn: To wet; to bemire. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

JARDINIERE
Jar`di`nière", n. Etym: [F., fem. of jardinier gardener. See Garden.]

Defn: An ornamental stand or receptacle for plants, flowers, etc.,
used as a piece of decorative furniture in room.

JARDS
Jards, n. Etym: [F. jarde, jardon.] (Far.)

Defn: A callous tumor on the leg of a horse, below the hock.

JARGLE
Jar"gle, v. i. Etym: [Cf. OSw. jerga to repeat angrily, to brawl,
Icel. jarg tedious iteration, F. jargonner to talk jargon. See Jargon
gabble.]

Defn: To emit a harsh or discordant sound. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

JARGON
Jar"gon, n. Etym: [F. jargon, OF. also gargon, perh. akin to E.
garrulous, or gargle.]

Defn: Confused, unintelligible language; gibberish; hence, an
artificial idiom or dialect; cant language; slang. "A barbarous
jargon." Macaulay. "All jargon of the schools." Prior.
The jargon which serves the traffickers. Johnson.

JARGON
Jar"gon, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jargon; p. pr. & vb. n. Jargoning.]

Defn: To utter jargon; to emit confused or unintelligible sounds; to
talk unintelligibly, or in a harsh and noisy manner.
The noisy jay, Jargoning like a foreigner at his food. Longfellow.

JARGON
Jar"gon, n. Etym: [E.jargon, It. jiargone; perh. fr. Pers. zarg gold-
colored, fr. zar gold. Cf. Zircon.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of zircon. See Zircon.

JARGONELLE
Jar`go*nelle", n. Etym: [F. jargonelle a very gritty variety of pear.
See Jargon zircon.]

Defn: A variety of pear which ripens early.

JARGONIC
Jar*gon"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the mineral jargon.

JARGONIST
Jar"gon*ist, n.

Defn: One addicted to jargon; one who uses cant or slang. Macaulay.

JARL
Jarl, n. Etym: [Icel., nobleman, chief. See Earl.]

Defn: A chief; an earl; in English history, one of the leaders in the
Danish and Norse invasions. Longfellow.

JARNUT
Jar"nut`, n. Etym: [Of Scand. origin: cf. Dan. jordnöd.] (Bot.)

Defn: An earthnut. Dr. Prior.

JAROSITE
Ja*ro"site, n. Etym: [From Barranco Jaroso, in Spain.] (Min.)

Defn: An ocher-yellow mineral occurring on minute rhombohedral
crystals. It is a hydrous sulphate of iron and potash.

JAR-OWL
Jar"-owl`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The goatsucker.

JARRAH
Jar"rah, n.

Defn: The mahoganylike wood of the Australian Eucalyptus marginata.
See Eucalyptus.

JARRING
Jar"ring, a. Etym: [See Jar.]

Defn: Shaking; disturbing; discordant. "A jarring sound." Dryden.

JARRING
Jar"ring n.

1. A shaking; a tremulous motion; as, the jarring of a steamship,
caused by its engines.

2. Discord; a clashing of interests. "Endless jarrings and immortal
hate." Dryden.

JARRINGLY
Jar"ring*ly, adv.

Defn: In a jarring or discordant manner.

JARVEY; JARVY
Jar"vey, Jar"vy, n.

1. The driver of a hackney coach. [Slang, Eng.] Carlyle.

2. A hackney coach. [Slang, Eng.]
The litter at the bottom of the jarvy. T. Hook.

JASEY
Ja"sey, n.

Defn: A wig; -- so called, perhaps, from being made of, or
resembling, Jersey yarn. Thackeray.

JASHAWK
Jas"hawk`, n. Etym: [A corruption of eyas hawk.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young hawk. Booth.

JASMINE
Jas"mine, n. Etym: [F. jasmin, Sp. jazmin, Ar. yasmin, Pers. yasmin;
cf. It. gesmino, gelsomino. Cf. Jessamine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A shrubby plant of the genus Jasminum, bearing flowers of a
peculiarly fragrant odor. The J. officinale, common in the south of
Europe, bears white flowers. The Arabian jasmine is J. Sambac, and,
with J. angustifolia, comes from the East Indies. The yellow false
jasmine in the Gelseminum sempervirens (see Gelsemium). Several other
plants are called jasmine in the West Indies, as species of
Calotropis and Faramea. [Written also jessamine.] Cape jasmine, or
Cape jessamine, the Gardenia florida, a shrub with fragrant white
flowers, a native of China, and hardy in the Southern United States.

JASP
Jasp, n.

Defn: Jasper. [Obs.] Spenser.

JASPACHATE
Jas"pa*chate, n. Etym: [L. iaspachates, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Agate jasper. [Obs.]

JASPE
Ja`spé", a. [F., p.p. of jasper to mottle. See Jasper.] (Ceramics)

Defn: Having the surface decorated with cloudings and streaks,
somewhat as if imitating jasper.

JASPER
Jas"per, n. Etym: [OE. jaspre, jaspe, OF. jaspre, jaspe, F. jaspe, L.
iaspis, Gr. yashp, yashf, Ar.yashb, yasb, yasf, Heb. yashpheh. Cf.
Diaper.] (Min.)

Defn: An opaque, impure variety of quartz, of red, yellow, and other
dull colors, breaking with a smooth surface. It admits of a high
polish, and is used for vases, seals, snuff boxes, etc. When the
colors are in stripes or bands, it is called striped or banded
jasper. The Egyptian pebble is a brownish yellow jasper. Jasper opal,
a yellow variety of opal resembling jasper.
 -- Jasper ware, a delicate kind of earthenware invented by Josiah
Wedgwood. It is usually white, but is capable of receiving color.

JASPERATED
Jas"per*a`ted, a.

Defn: mixed with jasper; containing particles of jasper; as,
jasperated agate.

JASPERIZE
Jas"per*ize, v. t. Etym: [Usually p. p. Jasperized (

Defn: To convert into, or make to resemble, jasper.
Polished specimens of jasperized and agatized woods. Pop. Sci.
Monthly.

JASPERY
Jas"per*y, a.

Defn: Of the nature of jasper; mixed with jasper.

JASPIDEAN; JASPIDEOUS
Jas*pid"e*an, Jas*pid"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. iaspideus. See Jasper.]

Defn: Consisting of jasper, or containing jasper; jaspery;
jasperlike.

JASPILITE
Jas"pi*lite, n. Etym: [Jasper + -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A compact siliceous rock resembling jasper.

JASPOID
Jas"poid, a. Etym: [F. jaspoïde; jaspe jasper + Gr.

Defn: Resembling jasper. [R.]

JASPONYX
Jasp`o"nyx, n. Etym: [L. iasponyx, Gr. . See Jasper, and Onyx.]
(min.)

Defn: An onyx, part or all of whose layers consist of jasper.

JATROPHIC
Ja*troph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to physic nuts, the seeds of plants of the
genus Jatropha.

JAUNCE
Jaunce, v. i. Etym: [OF. jancer. Cf. Jounce, Jaunt.]

Defn: To ride hard; to jounce. [Obs.]
Spurr'd, galled and tired by jauncing Bolingbroke. Shak.

JAUNDICE
Jaun"dice, n. Etym: [OE. jaunis, F. jaunisse, fr. jaune yellow, orig.
jalne, fr. L. galbinus yellowish, fr. galbus yellow.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition, characterized by yellowness of the eyes,
skin, and urine, whiteness of the fæces, constipation, uneasiness in
the region of the stomach, loss of appetite, and general languor and
lassitude. It is caused usually by obstruction of the biliary
passages and consequent damming up, in the liver, of the bile, which
is then absorbed into the blood. Blue jaundice. See Cyanopathy.

JAUNDICE
Jaun"dice, v. t.

Defn: To affect with jaundice; to color by prejudice or envy; to
prejudice.
The envy of wealth jaundiced his soul. Ld. Lytton.

JAUNDICED
Jaun"diced, a.

1. affected with jaundice.
Jaundiced eyes seem to see all objects yellow. Bp. Hall.

2. Prejudiced; envious; as, a jaundiced judgment.

JAUNT
Jaunt, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jaunted; p. pr. & vb. n. Jaunting.] Etym:
[Cf. Scot. jaunder to ramble, jaunt to taunt, jeer, dial. Sw. ganta
to play the buffoon, romp, jest; perh. akin to E. jump. Cf. Jaunce.]

1. To ramble here and there; to stroll; to make an excursion.

2. To ride on a jaunting car. Jaunting car, a kind of low-set open
vehicle, used in Ireland, in which the passengers ride sidewise,
sitting back to back. [Written also jaunty car.] Thackeray.

JAUNT
Jaunt, v. t.

Defn: To jolt; to jounce. [Obs.] Bale.

JAUNT
Jaunt, n.

1. A wearisome journey. [R.]
Our Savior, meek, and with untroubled mind After his aëry jaunt,
though hurried sore. Hungry and cold, betook him to his rest. Milton.

2. A short excursion for pleasure or refreshment; a ramble; a short
journey.

JAUNTILY
Jaun"ti*ly, adv.

Defn: In a jaunty manner.

JAUNTINESS
Jaun"ti*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being jaunty.
That jauntiness of air I was once master of. Addison.

JAUNTY
Jaun"ty, a. [Compar. Jauntier; superl. Jauntiest.] Etym: [Formerly
spelt janty, fr. F. gentil. See Gentle, and cf. Genty.]

Defn: Airy; showy; finical; hence, characterized by an affected or
fantastical manner.

JAVA
Ja"va, n.

1. One of the islands of the Malay Archipelago belonging to the
Netherlands.

2. Java coffee, a kind of coffee brought from Java. Java cat (Zoöl.),
the musang.
 -- Java sparrow (Zoöl.), a species of finch (Padda oryzivora),
native of Java, but very commonly kept as a cage bird; -- called also
ricebird, and paddy bird. In the male the upper parts are glaucous
gray, the head and tail black, the under parts delicate rose, and the
cheeks white. The bill is large and red. A white variety is also kept
as a cage bird.

JAVANESE
Jav`a*nese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Java, or to the people of Java.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Java.

JAVEL
Jav"el, n.

Defn: A vagabond. [Obs.] Spenser.

JAVELIN
Jave"lin, n. Etym: [F. javeline; akin to Sp. jabalina, It. giavelina,
and F. javelot, OF. gavlot. Cf. Gavelock.]

Defn: A sort of light spear, to be thrown or cast by thew hand;
anciently, a weapon of war used by horsemen and foot soldiers; now
used chiefly in hunting the wild boar and other fierce game.
Flies the javelin swifter to its mark, Launched by the vigor of a
Roman arm Addison.

JAVELIN
Jave"lin, v. t.

Defn: To pierce with a javelin. [R.] Tennyson.

JAVELINIER
Jave`lin*ier", n.

Defn: A soldier armed with a javelin. Holland.

JAW
Jaw, n. Etym: [A modification of chaw, formed under the influence of
F. joue the cheek. See Chaw, Chew.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) One of the bones, usually bearing teeth, which form the framework
of the mouth.
(b) Hence, also, the bone itself with the teeth and covering.
(c) In the plural, the mouth.

2. Fig.: Anything resembling the jaw of an animal in form or action;
esp., pl., the mouth or way of entrance; as, the jaws of a pass; the
jaws of darkness; the jaws of death. Shak.

3. (Mach.)
(a) A notch or opening.
(b) A notched or forked part, adapted for holding an object in place;
as, the jaw of a railway-car pedestal. See Axle guard.
(b) One of a pair of opposing parts which are movable towards or from
each other, for grasping or crushing anything between them, as, the
jaws of a vise, or the jaws of a stone-crushing machine.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: The inner end of a boom or gaff, hollowed in a half circle so
as to move freely on a mast.

5.

Defn: Impudent or abusive talk. [Slang] H. Kingsley. Jaw bit
(Railroad), a bar across the jaws of a pedestal underneath an axle
box.
 -- Jaw breaker, a word difficult to pronounce. [Obs.] -- Jaw rope
(Naut.), a rope which holds the jaws of a gaff to the mast.
 -- Jaw tooth, a molar or grinder; a back tooth.

JAW
Jaw, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jawed; p. pr. & vb. n. Jawing.]

Defn: To scold; to clamor. [Law] Smollett.

JAW
Jaw, v. t.

Defn: To assail or abuse by scolding. [Law]

JAWBONE
Jaw"bone`, n.

Defn: The bone of either jaw; a maxilla or a mandible.

JAWED
Jawed, a.

Defn: Having jaws; -- chiefly in composition; as, lantern-jawed.
"Jawed like a jetty." Skelton.

JAW-FALL
Jaw"-fall`, n.

Defn: Depression of the jaw; hence, depression of spirits. M.
Griffith (1660).

JAW-FALLEN
Jaw"-fall`en, a.

Defn: Dejected; chopfallen.

JAWFOOT
Jaw"foot`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Maxilliped.

JAWING
Jaw"ing, n.

Defn: Scolding; clamorous or abusive talk. [Slang] H. Kingsley.

JAWN
Jawn, v. i.

Defn: See Yawn. [Obs.] Marston.

JAWY
Jaw"y, a.

Defn: Relating to the jaws. Gayton.

JAY
Jay, n. Etym: [F. geai, OF. gai, jaj, perh. fr. OHG. gahi. Cf. Gay.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of the numerous species of birds belonging to Garrulus,
Cyanocitta, and allied genera. They are allied to the crows, but are
smaller, more graceful in form, often handsomely colored, and usually
have a crest.

Note: The European jay (Garrulus glandarius) is a large and
handsomely colored species, having the body pale reddish brown,
lighter beneath; tail and wing quills blackish; the primary coverts
barred with bright blue and black; throat, tail coverts, and a large
spot on the wings, white. Called also jay pie, Jenny jay, and kæ. The
common blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata.), and the related species, are
brilliantly colored, and have a large erectile crest. The California
jay (Aphelocoma Californica), the Florida jay (A. Floridana), and the
green jay (Xanthoura luxuosa), of Texas and Mexico, are large,
handsome, crested species. The Canada jay (Perisoreus Canadensis),
and several allied species, are much plainer and have no crest. See
Blue jay, and Whisky jack. Jay thrush (Zoöl.), any one several
species of Asiatic singing birds, of the genera Garrulax,
Grammatoptila, and related genera of the family Crateropodidæ; as;
the white-throated jay thrush (G. albogularis), of India.

JAYET
Jay"et, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Jet. [Obs.]

JAYHAWKER
Jay"hawk`er, n.

Defn: A name given to a free-booting, unenlisted, armed man or
guerrilla.

Note: [A term of opprobrium used in the war of 1861-65, U. S.]

JAZEL
Ja"zel, n.

Defn: A gem of an azure color. [Obs.]

JAZERANT
Jaz"er*ant, n. Etym: [OF. jacerant, jaseran, Sp. jacerina, cota
jacerina, fr. jazarino Algerine, fr. Ar. jaza\'c6r Algiers.]

Defn: A coat of defense made of small plates of metal sewed upon
linen or the like; also, this kind of armor taken generally; as, a
coat of jazerant.

JEALOUS
Jeal"ous, a. Etym: [OE. jalous, gelus, OF. jalous, F. jaloux, LL.
zelosus zealous, fr. zelus emulation, zeal, jealousy, Gr. Zeal, and
cf. Zealous.]

1. Zealous; solicitous; vigilant; anxiously watchful.
I have been very jeolous for the Lord God of hosts. Kings xix. 10.
How nicely jealous is every one of us of his own repute! Dr. H. More.

2. Apprehensive; anxious; suspiciously watchful.
'This doing wrong creates such doubts as these, Renders us jealous
and disturbs our peace. Waller.
The people are so jealous of the clergy's ambition. Swift.

3. Exacting exclusive devotion; intolerant of rivalry.
Thou shalt worship no other God; for the Lord, whose name is Jealous,
is a jealous God. Ex. xxxiv. 14.

4. Disposed to suspect rivalry in matters of interest and affection;
apprehensive regarding the motives of possible rivals, or the
fidelity of friends; distrustful; having morbid fear of rivalry in
love or preference given to another; painfully suspicious of the
faithfulness of husband, wife, or lover.
If the spirit of jealousy come upon him, and he be jealous of his
wife. Num. v. 14.
To both these sisters have I sworn my love: Each jealous of the
other, as the stung Are of the adder. Shak.
It is one of the best bonds, both of chastity and obedience, in the
wife, if she think her husband wise; which she will never do if she
find him jealous. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Suspicious; anxious; envious. Jealous, Suspicious. Suspicious is
the wider term. We suspect a person when we distrust his honesty and
imagine he has some bad design. We are jealous when we suspect him of
aiming to deprive us of what we dearly prize. Iago began by awakening
the suspicions of Othello, and converted them at last into jealousy.
"Suspicion may be excited by some kind of accusation, not supported
by evidence sufficient for conviction, but sufficient to trouble the
repose of confidence." "Jealousy is a painful apprehension of
rivalship in cases that are peculiarly interesting to us." Cogan.

JEALOUSHOOD
Jeal"ous*hood, n.

Defn: Jealousy. [Obs.] Shak.

JEALOUSLY
Jeal"ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a jealous manner.

JEALOUSNESS
Jeal"ous*ness, n.

Defn: State or quality of being jealous.

JEALOUSY
Jeal"ous*y, n.; pl. Jealousies. Etym: [ F. jalousie. See Jealous, and
cf. Jalousie.]

Defn: The quality of being jealous; earnest concern or solicitude;
painful apprehension of rivalship in cases nearly affecting one's
happiness; painful suspicion of the faithfulness of husband, wife, or
lover.
I was jealous for jealousy. Zech. viii. 2.
Jealousy is the . . . apprehension of superiority. Shenstone.
Whoever had qualities to alarm our jealousy, had excellence to
deserve our fondness. Rambler.

JEAMES
Jeames, n. Etym: [Corrup. of James.]

Defn: A footman; a flunky. [Slang, Eng.] Thackeray.

JEAN
Jean, n. Etym: [Prob. named from Genoa. See Jane.]

Defn: A twilled cotton cloth. Satin jean, a kind of jean woven smooth
and glossy, after the manner of satin.

JEARS
Jears, n. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: See 1st Jeer (b).

JEAT
Jeat, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Jet. [Obs.]

JEDDING AX
Jed"ding ax`, n.

Defn: A stone mason's tool, having a flat face and a pointed part.
Knight.

JEE
Jee, v. t. & i.

Defn: See Gee.

JEEL
Jeel, n. Etym: [Hind. jhil.]

Defn: A morass; a shallow lake. [Written also jhil.] [India]
Whitworth.

JEER
Jeer, n. Etym: [Cf. Gear.] (Naut.)
(a) A gear; a tackle. (b) pl.

Defn: An assemblage or combination of tackles, for hoisting or
lowering the lower yards of a ship. Jeer capstan (Naut.), an extra
capstan usually placed between the foremast and mainmast.

JEER
Jeer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jeered; p. pr. & vb. n. Jeering.] Etym:
[Perh. a corrup. of cheer to salute with cheers, taken in an ironical
sense; or more prob. fr. D. gekscheren to jeer, lit., to shear the
fool; gek a fool (see 1st Geck) + scheren to shear. See Shear, v.]

Defn: To utter sarcastic or scoffing reflections; to speak with
mockery or derision; to use taunting language; to scoff; as, to jeer
at a speaker.
But when he saw her toy and gibe and jeer. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- To sneer; scoff; flout; gibe; mock.

JEER
Jeer, v. t.

Defn: To treat with scoffs or derision; to address with jeers; to
taunt; to flout; to mock at.
And if we can not jeer them, we jeer ourselves. B. Jonson.

JEER
Jeer, n.

Defn: A railing remark or reflection; a scoff; a taunt; a biting
jest; a flout; a jibe; mockery.
Midas, exposed to all their jeers, Had lost his art, and kept his
ears. Swift.

JEERER
Jeer"er, n.

Defn: A scoffer; a railer; a mocker.

JEERING
Jeer"ing, a.

Defn: Mocking; scoffing.
 -- n.

Defn: A mocking utterance.
 -- Jeer"ing*ly, adv.

JEERS
Jeers, n. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: See 1st Jeer (b).

JEFFERSONIA
Jef`fer*so"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL. Named after Thomas Jefferson.] (Bot.)

Defn: An American herb with a pretty, white, solitary blossom, and
deeply two-cleft leaves (Jeffersonia diphylla); twinleaf.

JEFFERSONIAN
Jef`fer*so"ni*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, Thomas Jefferson or his
policy or political doctrines. Lowell.

JEFFERSONIAN SIMPLICITY
Jeffersonian simplicity.

Defn: The absence of pomp or display which Jefferson aimed at in his
administration as President (1801-1809), eschewing display or
ceremony tending to distinguish the President from the people, as in
going to the capital on horseback and with no escort, the abolition
of court etiquette and the weekly levee, refusal to recognize titles
of honor, etc.

JEFFERSONITE
Jef"fer*son*ite, n. Etym: [Named after Thomas Jefferson.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of pyroxene of olive-green color passing into brown.
It contains zinc.

JEG
Jeg, n. (Mach.)

Defn: See Jig, 6.

JEHOVAH
Je*ho"vah, n. Etym: [Heb. usually yêhovah (with the vowel points of
âdonai Lord), sometimes (to avoid repetition) yêhovih (with the vowel
points of êlohim God); but only the four Heb, consonants yhvh are
conceded to be certainly known.]

Defn: A Scripture name of the Supreme Being, by which he was revealed
to the Jews as their covenant God or Sovereign of the theocracy; the
"ineffable name" of the Supreme Being, which was not pronounced by
the Jews.

JEHOVIST
Je*ho"vist, n.

1. One who maintains that the vowel points of the word Jehovah, in
Hebrew, are the proper vowels of that word; -- opposed to adonist.

2. The writer of the passages of the Old Testament, especially those
of the Pentateuch, in which the Supreme Being is styled Jehovah. See
Elohist.
The characteristic manner of the Jehovist differs from that of his
predecessor [the Elohist]. He is fuller and freer in his
descriptions; more reflective in his assignment of motives and
causes; more artificial in mode of narration. S. Davidson.

JEHOVISTIC
Je`ho*vis"tic, a.

Defn: Relating to, or containing, Jehovah, as a name of God; -- said
of certain parts of the Old Testament, especially of the Pentateuch,
in which Jehovah appears as the name of the Deity. See Elohistic.

JEHU
Je"hu, n. Etym: [From Jehu, son of Nimshi. 2 Kings ix. 20.]

Defn: A coachman; a driver; especially, one who drives furiously.
[Colloq.]

JEJUNAL
Je*ju"nal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the jejunum.

JEJUNE
Je*june", a. Etym: [L. jejunus fasting, hungry, dry, barren, scanty;
of unknown origin.]

1. Lacking matter; empty; void of substance.

2. Void of interest; barren; meager; dry; as, a jejune narrative. -
Je*june"ly, adv.
 -- Je*june"ness, n. Bacon.

JEJUNITY
Je*ju"ni*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being jejune; jejuneness.

JEJUNUM
Je*ju"num, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. jejunus empty, dry.] (Anat.)

Defn: The middle division of the small intestine, between the
duodenum and ileum; -- so called because usually found empty after
death.

JELERANG
Jel"er*ang, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, handsome squirrel (Sciurus Javensis), native of Java
and Southern Asia; -- called also Java squirrel.

JELL
Jell, v. i.

Defn: To jelly. [Colloq.]

JELLIED
Jel"lied, a.

Defn: Brought to the state or consistence of jelly.

JELLIFY
Jel"li*fy, v. t. & i.  [imp. & p. p. Jellified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Jellifying.]

Defn: To make, or to become, gelatinous; to jelly. --
Jel`li*fi*ca"tion (#), n.

JELLY
Jel"ly, n.; pl. Jellies. Etym: [ Formerly gelly, gely, F. gelée
jelly, frost, fr. geler to freeze. L. gelare; akin to gelu frost. See
Gelid.]

1. Anything brought to a gelatinous condition; a viscous, translucent
substance in a condition between liquid and solid; a stiffened
solution of gelatin, gum, or the like.

2. The juice of fruits or meats boiled with sugar to an elastic
consistence; as, currant jelly; calf's-foot jelly. Jelly bag, a bag
through which the material for jelly is strained.
 -- Jelly mold, a mold for forming jelly in ornamental shapes.
 -- Jelly plant (Bot.), Australian name of an edible seaweed
(Eucheuma speciosum), from which an excellent jelly is made. J.
Smith.
 -- Jelly powder, an explosive, composed of nitroglycerin and
collodion cotton; -- so called from its resemblance to calf's-foot
jelly.

JELLY
Jel"ly, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jellied; p. pr. & vb. n. Jellying.]

Defn: To become jelly; to come to the state or consistency of jelly.

JELLYFISH
Jel"ly*fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of the acalephs, esp. one of the larger species, having
a jellylike appearance. See Medusa.

JEMIDAR
Jem"i*dar`, n. Etym: [Per. & Hind. jama-dar.]

Defn: The chief or leader of a hand or body of persons; esp., in the
native army of India, an officer of a rank corresponding to that of
lieutenant in the English army. [Written also jemadar, jamadar.]

JEMLAH GOAT
Jem"lah goat`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The jharal.

JEMMINESS
Jem"mi*ness, n.

Defn: Spruceness. [Slang, Eng.] Pegge (1814).

JEMMY
Jem"my, a. Etym: [Cf. Gim, and Gimp, a.]

Defn: Spruce. [Slang, Eng.] Smart.

JEMMY
Jem"my, n.

1. A short crowbar. See Jimmy.

2. A baked sheep's head. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens.

JENIQUEN
Je*ni"quen, n. Etym: [Sp. jeniquen.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Mexican name for the Sisal hemp (Agave rigida, var.
Sisalana); also, its fiber. [Written also heniequen.]

JENITE
Je"nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Yenite.

JENKINS
Jen"kins, n.

Defn: name of contempt for a flatterer of persons high in social or
official life; as, the Jenkins employed by a newspaper. [Colloq. Eng.
& U.S.] G. W. Curtis.

JENNET
Jen"net, n. Etym: [F. genet, Sp. jinete, orig., a mounted soldier,
Ar. zenata a tribe of Barbary celebrated for its cavalry.]

Defn: A small Spanish horse; a genet.

JENNETING
Jen"net*ing, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. a dim. of Jean John, so named as
becoming ripe about St. John's day, June 24. F. Jean is fr. L.
Johannes. See Zany.]

Defn: A variety of early apple. See Juneating. [Written also
geniting.]

JENNY
Jen"ny, n.; pl. Jennies (.

1. A familiar or pet form of the proper name Jane.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A familiar name of the European wren. Jenny ass (Zoöl.), a
female ass.

JENNY
Jen"ny, n. Etym: [A corruption of gin an engine; influenced by Jenny,
the proper name. See Gin an engine, and cf. Ginny-carriage.]

Defn: A machine for spinning a number of threads at once, -- used in
factories.

JENTLING
Jent"ling, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of the genus Leuciscus; the blue chub of the Danube.

JEOFAIL
Jeof"ail, n. Etym: [F. j'ai failli I have failed.] (Law)

Defn: An oversight in pleading, or the acknowledgment of a mistake or
oversight. Blackstone.

JEOPARD
Jeop"ard, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jeoparded; p. pr. & vb. n. Jeoparding.]
Etym: [From Jeopardy.]

Defn: To put in jeopardy; to expose to loss or injury; to imperil; to
hazard. Sir T. North.
A people that jeoparded their lives unto the death. Judg. v. 18.

Syn.
 -- To hazard; risk; imperil; endanger; expose.

JEOPARDER
Jeop"ard*er, n.

Defn: One who puts in jeopardy. [R.]

JEOPARDIZE
Jeop"ard*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jeopardized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Jeopardizing.]

Defn: To expose to loss or injury; to risk; to jeopard.
That he should jeopardize his willful head Only for spite at me. H.
Taylor.

JEOPARDOUS
Jeop"ard*ous, a.

Defn: Perilous; hazardous.
His goodly, valiant, and jeopardous enterprise. Fuller.
-- Jeop"ard*ous*ly, adv. Huloet.

JEOPARDY
Jeop"ard*y, n. Etym: [OE. jupartie, juperti, jeuparti, OF. jeu parti
an even game, a game in which the chances are even; OF. jeu, ju, F.
jeu (L. jocus jest) + F. partier to divide, L. partire to divide. See
Joke, and Part.]

Defn: Exposure to death, loss, or injury; hazard; danger.
There came down a storm of wind on the lake; and they were filled
with water, and were in jeopardy. Luke viii. 23.
Look to thyself, thou art in jeopardy. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Danger; peril; hazard; risk. See Danger.

JEOPARDY
Jeop"ard*y, v. t.

Defn: To jeopardize. [R.] Thackeray.

JEQUIRITY; JEQUIRITY BEAN
Je*quir"i*ty, n., or Je*quir"i*ty bean`. [Prob. fr. a native name.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The seed of the wild licorice (Abrus precatorius) used by the
people of India for beads in rosaries and necklaces, as a standard
weight, etc.; -- called also jumble bead.

JERBOA
Jer*bo"a, n. Etym: [Ar. yarb.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any small jumping rodent of the genus Dipus, esp. D. Ægyptius,
which is common in Egypt and the adjacent countries. The jerboas have
very long hind legs and a long tail. [Written also gerboa.]

Note: The name is also applied to other small jumping rodents, as the
Pedetes Caffer, of the Cape of Good Hope. Jerboa kangaroo (Zoöl.),
small Australian kangaroo (Bettongia penicillata), about the size of
a common hare.

JEREED
Jer*eed", n. Etym: [Ar. jerid. Cf. Djereed.]

Defn: A blunt javelin used by the people of the Levant, especially in
mock fights. [Written also jerreed, jerid.] Byron.

JEREMIAD; JEREMIADE
Jer`e*mi"ad, Jer`e*mi"ade, n. Etym: [From Jeremiah, the prophet: cf.
F. jérémiade.]

Defn: A tale of sorrow, disappointment, or complaint; a doleful
story; a dolorous tirade; -- generally used satirically.
He has prolonged his complaint into an endless jeremiad. Lamb.

JERFALCON
Jer"fal`con, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gyrfalcon.

JERGUER
Jer"guer, n.

Defn: See Jerquer.

JERID
Jer*id", n.

Defn: Same as Jereed.

JERK
Jerk, v. t. Etym: [Corrupted from Peruv. charqui dried beef.]

Defn: To cut into long slices or strips and dry in the sun; as, jerk
beef. See Charqui.

JERK
Jerk, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jerked; p. pr. & vb. n. Jerking.] Etym:
[Akin to yerk, and perh. also to yard a measure.]

1. To beat; to strike. [Obs.] Florio.

2. To give a quick and suddenly arrested thrust, push, pull, or
twist, to; to yerk; as, to jerk one with the elbow; to jerk a coat
off.

3. To throw with a quick and suddenly arrested motion of the hand;
as, to jerk a stone.

JERK
Jerk, v. i.

1. To make a sudden motion; to move with a start, or by starts.
Milton.

2. To flout with contempt.

JERK
Jerk, n.

1. A short, sudden pull, thrust, push, twitch, jolt, shake, or
similar motion.
His jade gave him a jerk. B. Jonson.

2. A sudden start or spring.
Lobsters . . . swim backwards by jerks or springs. Grew.

JERKER
Jerk"er, n.

1. A beater. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

2. One who jerks or moves with a jerk.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A North American river chub (Hybopsis biguttatus).

JERKIN
Jer"kin, n. Etym: [Dim. of D. jurk a frock.]

Defn: A jacket or short coat; a close waistcoat. Shak.

JERKIN
Jer"kin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A male gyrfalcon.

JERKING
Jerk"ing, n.

Defn: The act of pulling, pushing, or throwing, with a jerk.
 -- Jerk"ing*ly, adv.

JERKINHEAD
Jer"kin*head`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The hipped part of a roof which is hipped only for a part of
its height, leaving a truncated gable.

JERKY
Jerk"y, a.

Defn: Moving by jerks and starts; characterized by abrupt
transitions; as, a jerky vehicle; a jerky style.

JERMOONAL
Jer*moon"al, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Himalayan now partridge.

JERONYMITE
Je*ron"y*mite, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One belonging of the mediæval religious orders called Hermits
of St. Jerome. [Written also Hieronymite.]

JEROPIGIA
Jer`o*pig"i*a, n.

Defn: See Geropigia.

JERQUER
Jer"quer, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chercher to search, E. search.]

Defn: A customhouse officer who searches ships for unentered goods.
[Eng.] [Written also jerguer.]

JERQUING
Jer"quing, n.

Defn: The searching of a ship for unentered goods. [Eng.] [Written
also jerguer.]

JERQUING
Jer"quing, n.

Defn: The searching of a ship for unentered goods. [Eng.]

JERRY-BUILDER
Jer"ry-build`er, n. [Prob. fr. the proper name Jerry, familiar form
of Jeremiah.]

Defn: A professional builder who erects cheap dwellings of poor
materials and unsubstantial and slovenly construction.

JERRY-BUILT
Jer"ry-built`, a.

Defn: Built hastily and of bad materials; as, jerry-built houses.
[Colloq. Eng.]

JERSEY
Jer"sey, n.; pl. Jerseys. Etym: [From Jersey, the largest of the
Channel Islands.]

1. The finest of wool separated from the rest; combed wool; also,
fine yarn of wool.

2. A kind of knitted jacket; hence, in general, a closefitting jacket
or upper garment made of an elastic fabric (as stockinet).

3. One of a breed of cattle in the Island of Jersey. Jerseys are
noted for the richness of their milk.

JERUSALEM
Je*ru"sa*lem, n. Etym: [Gr. Y.]

Defn: The chief city of Palestine, intimately associated with the
glory of the Jewish nation, and the life and death of Jesus Christ.
Jerusalem artichoke Etym: [Perh. a corrupt. of It. girasole i.e.,
sunflower, or turnsole. See Gyre, Solar.] (Bot.) (a) An American
plant, a perennial species of sunflower (Helianthus tuberosus), whose
tubers are sometimes used as food. (b) One of the tubers themselves.
 -- Jerusalem cherry (Bot.), the popular name of either of either of
two species of Solanum (S. Pseudo-capsicum and S. capsicastrum),
cultivated as ornamental house plants. They bear bright red berries
of about the size of cherries.
 -- Jerusalem oak (Bot.), an aromatic goosefoot (Chenopodium Botrys),
common about houses and along roadsides.
 -- Jerusalem sage (Bot.), a perennial herb of the Mint family
(Phlomis tuberosa).
 -- Jerusalem thorn (Bot.), a spiny, leguminous tree (Parkinsonia
aculeata), widely dispersed in warm countries, and used for hedges.
 -- The New Jerusalem, Heaven; the Celestial City.

JERVINE
Jer"vine, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. Sp. yerba herb, OSp., the poison of the
veratrum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous alkaloid resembling veratrine, and found with it in
white hellebore (Veratrum album); -- called also jervina.

JESS
Jess, n.; pl. Jesses. Etym: [OF. gies, giez, prop. pl. of giet, get,
jet, F. jet, a throwing, jess. See Jet a shooting forth.] (falconry)

Defn: A short strap of leather or silk secured round the leg of a
hawk, to which the leash or line, wrapped round the falconer's hand,
was attached when used. See Illust. of Falcon.
Like a hawk, which feeling freed From bells and jesses which did let
her flight. Spenser.

JESSAMINE
Jes"sa*mine, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Jasmine.

JESSANT
Jes"sant, a. (Her.)

Defn: Springing up or emerging; -- said of a plant or animal.

JESSE
Jes"se, n. Etym: [LL.Jesse, the father of David, fr. Gr. Yishai.]

Defn: Any representation or suggestion of the genealogy of Christ, in
decorative art; as:
(a) A genealogical tree represented in stained glass.
(b) A candlestick with many branches, each of which bears the name of
some one of the descendants of Jesse; -- called also tree of Jesse.
Jesse window (Arch.), a window of which the glazing and tracery
represent the tree of Jesse.

JESSED
Jessed, a. (Her.)

Defn: Having jesses on, as a hawk.

JEST
Jest, n. Etym: [OE. jeste, geste, deed, action, story, tale, OF.
geste, LL. gesta, orig., exploits, neut. pl. from L. gestus, p. p. of
gerere to bear, carry, accomplish, perform; perh. orig., to make to
come, bring, and perh. akin to E. come. Cf. Gest a deed, Register,
n.]

1. A deed; an action; a gest. [Obs.]
The jests or actions of princes. Sir T. Elyot.

2. A mask; a pageant; an interlude. [Obs.] Nares.
He promised us, in honor of our guest, To grace our banquet with some
pompous jest. Kyd.

3. Something done or said in order to amuse; a joke; a witticism; a
jocose or sportive remark or phrase. See Synonyms under Jest, v. i.
I must be sad . . . smile at no man's jests. Shak.
The Right Honorable gentleman is indebted to his memory for his
jests, and to his imagination for his facts. Sheridan.

4. The object of laughter or sport; a laughingstock.
Then let me be your jest; I deserve it. Shak.
In jest, for mere sport or diversion; not in truth and reality; not
in earnest.
And given in earnest what I begged in jest. Shak.
-- Jest book, a book containing a collection of jests, jokes, and
amusing anecdotes; a Joe Miller.

JEST
Jest, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jested; p. pr. & vb. n. Jesting.]

1. To take part in a merrymaking; -- especially, to act in a mask or
interlude. [Obs.] Shak.

2. To make merriment by words or actions; to joke; to make light of
anything.
He jests at scars that never felt a wound. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To joke; sport; rally.
 -- To Jest, Joke. One jests in order to make others laugh; one jokes
to please himself. A jest is usually at the expense of another, and
is often ill-natured; a joke is a sportive sally designed to promote
good humor without wounding the feelings of its object. "Jests are,
therefore, seldom harmless; jokes frequently allowable. The most
serious subject may be degraded by being turned into a jest." Crabb.

JESTER
Jest"er, n. Etym: [Cf. Gestour.]

1. A buffoon; a merry-andrew; a court fool.
This . . . was Yorick's skull, the king's jester. Shak.
Dressed in the motley garb that jesters wear. Longfellow.

2. A person addicted to jesting, or to indulgence in light and
amusing talk.
He ambled up and down With shallow jesters. Shak.

JESTFUL
Jest"ful, a.

Defn: Given to jesting; full of jokes.

JESTING
Jest"ing, a.

Defn: Sportive; not serious; fit for jests.
He will find that these are no jesting matters. Macaulay
.

JESTING
Jest"ing, n.

Defn: The act or practice of making jests; joking; pleasantry. Eph.
v. 4.

JESTINGLY
Jest"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a jesting manner.

JESU
Je"su, n. [L., vocative and oblique cases of Jesus.]

Defn: Jesus. [Poetical]

Jesu, give the weary
Calm and sweet repose.
S. Baring-Gould.

JESUIT
Jes"u*it, n. Etym: [F. Jésuite, Sp. Jesuita: cf. It. Gesuita.]

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: One of a religious order founded by Ignatius Loyola, and
approved in 1540, under the title of The Society of Jesus.

Note: The order consists of Scholastics, the Professed, the Spiritual
Coadjutors, and the Temporal Coadjutors or Lay Brothers. The Jesuit
novice after two years becomes a Scholastic, and takes his first vows
of poverty, chastity, and obedience simply. Some years after, at the
close of a second novitiate, he takes his second vows and is ranked
among the Coadjutors or Professed. The Professed are bound by a
fourth vow, from which only the pope can dispense, requiring them to
go wherever the pope may send them for missionary duty. The
Coadjutors teach in the schools, and are employed in general
missionary labors. The Society is governed by a General who holds
office for life. He has associated with him "Assistants" (five at the
present time), representing different provinces. The Society was
first established in the United States in 1807. The Jesuits have
displayed in their enterprises a high degree of zeal, learning, and
skill, but, by their enemies, have been generally reputed to use art
and intrigue in promoting or accomplishing their purposes, whence the
words Jesuit, Jesuitical, and the like, have acquired an opprobrious
sense.

2. Fig.: A crafty person; an intriguer. Jesuits' bark, Peruvian bark,
or the bark of certain species of Cinchona; -- so called because its
medicinal properties were first made known in Europe by Jesuit
missionaries to South America.
 -- Jesuits' drops. See Friar's balsam, under Friar.
 -- Jesuits' nut, the European water chestnut.
 -- Jesuits' powder, powdered cinchona bark.
 -- Jesuits' tea, a Chilian leguminous shrub, used as a tea and
medicinally.

JESUITED
Jes"u*it*ed, a.

Defn: Conforming to the principles of the Jesuits. Milton.

JESUITESS
Jes"u*it*ess, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Jésuitesse.] (R. C. Hist.)

Defn: One of an order of nuns established on the principles of the
Jesuits, but suppressed by Pope Urban in 1633.

JESUITIC; JESUITICAL
Jes`u*it"ic, Jes`u*it"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. jésuitique.]

1. Of or pertaining to the Jesuits, or to their principles and
methods.

2. Designing; cunning; deceitful; crafty; -- an opprobrious use of
the word. Dryden.

JESUITICALLY
Jes`u*it"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a jesuitical manner.

JESUITISM
Jes"u*it*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. jésuitisme.]

1. The principles and practices of the Jesuits.

2. Cunning; deceit; deceptive practices to effect a purpose; subtle
argument; -- an opprobrious use of the word.

JESUITOCRACY
Jes`u*it*oc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Jesuit + -cracy, as in aristocracy.]

Defn: Government by Jesuits; also, the whole body of Jesuits in a
country. [R.] C. Kingsley.

JESUITRY
Jes"u*it*ry, n.

Defn: Jesuitism; subtle argument. [R.] Carlyle.

JESUS
Je"sus, n. Etym: [L. Jesus, Gr. Yésh; Yah Jehovah + h to help.]

Defn: The Savior; the name of the Son of God as announced by the
angel to his parents; the personal name of Our Lord, in distinction
from Christ, his official appellation. Luke i. 31.
Thou shalt call his name Jesus; for he shall save his people from
their sins. Matt. i. 21.

Note: The form Jesu is often used, esp. in the vocative.
Jesu, do thou my soul receive. Keble.
The Society of Jesus. See Jesuit.

JET
Jet, n.

Defn: Same as 2d Get. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JET
Jet, n. Etym: [OF. jet, jayet, F. jaïet, jais, L. gagates, fr. Gr.
[written also jeat, jayet.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of lignite, of a very compact texture and velvet
black color, susceptible of a good polish, and often wrought into
mourning jewelry, toys, buttons, etc. Formerly called also black
amber. Jet ant (Zoöl.), a blackish European ant (Formica fuliginosa),
which builds its nest of a paperlike material in the trunks of trees.

JET
Jet, n. Etym: [F. jet, OF. get, giet, L. jactus a throwing, a throw,
fr. jacere to throw. Cf. Abject, Ejaculate, Gist, Jess, Jut.]

1. A shooting forth; a spouting; a spurt; a sudden rush or gush, as
of water from a pipe, or of flame from an orifice; also, that which
issues in a jet.

2. Drift; scope; range, as of an argument. [Obs.]

3. The sprue of a type, which is broken from it when the type is
cold. Knight. Jet propeller (Naut.), a device for propelling vessels
by means of a forcible jet of water ejected from the vessel, as by a
centrifugal pump.
 -- Jet pump, a device in which a small jet of steam, air, water, or
other fluid, in rapid motion, lifts or otherwise moves, by its
impulse, a larger quantity of the fluid with which it mingles.

JET
Jet, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jetted; p. pr. & vb. n. Jetting.] Etym: [F.
jeter, L. jactare, freq. fr. jacere to throw. See 3d Jet, and cf.
Jut.]

1. To strut; to walk with a lofty or haughty gait; to be insolent; to
obtrude. [Obs.]
he jets under his advanced plumes! Shak.
To jet upon a prince's right. Shak.

2. To jerk; to jolt; to be shaken. [Obs.] Wiseman.

3. To shoot forward or out; to project; to jut out.

JET
Jet, v. t.

Defn: To spout; to emit in a stream or jet.
A dozen angry models jetted steam. Tennyson.

JET-BLACK
Jet"-black`, a.

Defn: Black as jet; deep black.

JET D'EAU
Jet` d'eau", pl. Jets d'eau (. Etym: [F., a throw of water. See Jet a
shooting forth.]

Defn: A stream of water spouting from a fountain or pipe (especially
from one arranged to throw water upward), in a public place or in a
garden, for ornament.

JETERUS
Jet"e*rus, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A yellowness of the parts of plants which are normally green;
yellows.

JETSAM; JETSON
Jet"sam, Jet"son, n. Etym: [F. jeter to throw: cf. OF. getaison a
throwing. Cf. Flotsam, Jettison.]

1. (Mar. Law)

Defn: Goods which sink when cast into the sea, and remain under
water; -- distinguished from flotsam, goods which float, and ligan,
goods which are sunk attached to a buoy.

2. Jettison. See Jettison, 1.

JETTEAU
Jet"teau, n.

Defn: See Jet d'eau. [R.] Addison.

JETTEE
Jet"tee, n.

Defn: See Jetty, n. Burke.

JETTER
Jet"ter, n.

Defn: One who struts; one who bears himself jauntily; a fop. [Obs.]
Palsgrave.

JETTINESS
Jet"ti*ness (-ti*nes). n.

Defn: The state of being jetty; blackness. Pennant.

JETTISON
Jet"ti*son. n. Etym: [See Jetsam.]

1. (Mar. Law)

Defn: The throwing overboard of goods from necessity, in order to
lighten a vessel in danger of wreck.

2. See Jetsam, 1.

JETTON
Jet"ton, n. Etym: [F. jeton.]

Defn: A metal counter used in playing cards.

JETTY
Jet"ty, a.

Defn: Made of jet, or like jet in color.
The people . . . are of a jetty. Sir T. Browne.

JETTY
Jet"ty, n.; pl. Jetties. Etym: [F.jetée a pier, a jetty, a causeway.
See Jet a shooting forth, and cf. Jutty.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A part of a building that jets or projects beyond the rest, and
overhangs the wall below.

2. A wharf or pier extending from the shore.

3. (Hydraul. Engin.)

Defn: A structure of wood or stone extended into the sea to influence
the current or tide, or to protect a harbor; a mole; as, the Eads
system of jetties at the mouth of the Mississippi River. Jetty ad
(Naut.), a projecting part at the end of a wharf; the front of a
wharf whose side forms one of the cheeks of a dock.

JETTY
Jet"ty, v. i.

Defn: To jut out; to project. [Obs.] Florio.

JEU D'ESPRIT
Jeu" d'es`prit". Etym: [F., play of mind.]

Defn: A witticism.

JEUNESSE DOREE
Jeu`nesse" do`rée". [F.]

Defn: Lit., gilded youth; young people of wealth and fashion, esp. if
given to prodigal living; -- in the French Revolution, applied to
young men of the upper classes who aided in suppressing the Jacobins
after the Reign of Terror.

JEW
Jew, n. Etym: [OF. Juis, pl., F. Juif, L. Judaeus, Gr. Y Judah, son
of Jacob. Cf. Judaic.]

Defn: Originally, one belonging to the tribe or kingdom of Judah;
after the return from the Babylonish captivity, any member of the new
state; a Hebrew; an Israelite. Jew's frankincense, gum styrax, or
benzoin.
 -- Jew's mallow (Bot.), an annual herb (Corchorus olitorius)
cultivated in Syria and Egypt as a pot herb, and in India for its
fiber.
 -- Jew's pitch, asphaltum; bitumen.
 -- The Wandering Jew, an imaginary personage, who, for his cruelty
to the Savior during his passion, is doomed to wander on the earth
till Christ's second coming.

JEWBUSH
Jew"bush`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A euphorbiaceous shrub of the genus Pedilanthus (P.
tithymaloides), found in the West Indies, and possessing powerful
emetic and drastic qualities.

JEWEL
Jew"el, n. Etym: [OE. juel, jowel, OF. jouel, juel, joiel, F. joyau,
dim. of OF. joie joy, jewel, F. joie joy. See Joy.]

1. An ornament of dress usually made of a precious metal, and having
enamel or precious stones as a part of its design.
Plate of rare device, and jewels Of rich and exquisite form. Shak.

2. A precious stone; a gem. Shak.

3. An object regarded with special affection; a precious thing. "Our
prince (jewel of children)." Shak.

4. A bearing for a pivot a pivot in a watch, formed of a crystal or
precious stone, as a ruby. Jewel block (Naut.), block at the
extremity of a yard, through which the halyard of a studding sail is
rove.

JEWEL
Jew"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jeweled, or Jewelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Jeweling, or Jewelling.]

Defn: To dress, adorn, deck, or supply with jewels, as a dress, a
sword hilt, or a watch; to bespangle, as with jewels.
The long gray tufts . . . are jeweled thick with dew. M. Arnold.

JEWELER
Jew"el*er, n. Etym: [Cf. F.joaillier.]

Defn: One who makes, or deals in, jewels, precious stones, and
similar ornaments. [Written also jeweller.] Jeweler's gold. See under
Gold.

JEWELLERY
Jew"el*ler*y, n.

Defn: See Jewelry. Burke.

JEWELRY
Jew"el*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. joaillerie.]

1. The art or trade of a jeweler. Cotgrave.

2. Jewels, collectively; as, a bride's jewelry.

JEWELWEED
Jew"el*weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Impatiens.

JEWESS
Jew"ess, n., fem. of Jew.

Defn: A Hebrew woman.

JEWFISH
Jew"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

1. A very large serranoid fish (Promicrops itaiara) of Florida and
the Gulf of Mexico. It often reaches the weight of five hundred
pounds. Its color is olivaceous or yellowish, with numerous brown
spots. Called also guasa, and warsaw.

2. A similar gigantic fish (Stereolepis gigas) of Southern
California, valued as a food fish.

3. The black grouper of Florida and Texas.

4. A large herringlike fish; the tarpum.

JEWISE
Jew*ise", n.

Defn: Same as Juise. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JEWISH
Jew"ish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Jews or Hebrews; characteristic of or
resembling the Jews or their customs; Israelitish.
 -- Jew"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Jew"ish*ness, n.

JEWISH CALENDAR
Jew"ish cal"en*dar.

Defn: A lunisolar calendar in use among Hebraic peoples, reckoning
from the year 3761 b. c., the date traditionally given for the
Creation. It received its present fixed form from Hillel II. about
360 a. d. The present names of the months, which are Babylonian-
Assyrian in origin, replaced older ones, Abib, Bul, etc., at the time
of the Babylonian Exile. Nineteen years constitute a lunar cycle, of
which the 3d, 6th, 8th, 11th, 14th, 17th, and 19th years are leap
years. The year 5663 [1902-3 a. d.] was the first year of the 299th
lunar cycle. The common year is said to be defective, regular, or
perfect (or abundant) according as it has 353, 354, or 355 days. The
leap year has an intercalary month, and a total of 383 (defective),
384 (regular), or 385 (perfect, or abundant) days. The calendar is
complicated by various rules providing for the harmonious arrangement
of festivals, etc., so that no simple perpetual calendar can be
constructed. The following table gives the months in order, with the
number of days assigned to each. Only three months vary in length.
They are: Heshvan, which has 30 days in perfect years; Kislev, which
has 30 days in regular and perfect years; and Adar, which has 30 days
in leap years. The ecclesiastical year commences with Nisan and the
civil year with Tishri. The date of the first of Tishri, or the
Jewish New Year, is also given for the Jewish years 5661-5696 (1900-
1935 a. d.). From these tables it is possible to transform any Jewish
date into Christian, or vice versa, for the years 1900-1935 a. d.

Months of the Jewish Year.

 1 Tishri . . . . . . 30
 2 Heshvan . . . . .  29 (r. & d.)
                                or 30 (p.)
 3 Kislev . . . . . . 29 (d.) or
                                   30 (r. & p.)
 4 Tebet . . . . . .  29
 5 Shebat . . . . . . 30
 6 Adar . . . . . . . 29 or
                                   30 (l.)
 -- Veadar . . . . .  29
    (occuring only in leap years)
 7 Nisan . . . . . . .30
 8 Ivar . . . . . . ..29
 9 Sivan . . . . . . .30
10 Tammux . . . . . . 29
11 Ab . . . . . . . . 30
12 Elul . . . . . . ..29

Jewish Year                   a. d.

5661 p.     begins     Sept.  24, 1900
5662 d.l.    "      "   14, 1901
5663 p.      "      Oct.    2, 1902
5664 r.      "      Sept.  22, 1903
5665 p.l.    "      "   10, 1904
5666 p.      "      "   30, 1905
5667 r.      "      "   20, 1906
5668 d.l.    "      "    6, 1907
5669 p.      "      "   26, 1908
5670 d.l.    "      "   16, 1909
5671 r.      "      Oct.    4, 1910
5672 p.      "      Sept.  23, 1911
5673 p.l.    "      "   12, 1912
5674 r.      "      Oct.    2, 1913
5675 d.      "      Sept.  21, 1914
5676 p.l.    "      "    9, 1915
5677 r.      "      "   28, 1916
5678 p.      "      "   17, 1917
5679 d.l.   begins     Sept.   7, 1918
5680 r.      "      "   25, 1919
5681 p.l.    "      "   13, 1920
5682 p.      "      Oct.    3, 1921
5683 d.      "      Sept.  23, 1922
5684 r.l.    "      "   11, 1923
5685 p.      "      "   29, 1924
5686 p.      "      "   19, 1925
5687 d.l.    "      "    9, 1926
5688 r.      "      "   27, 1927
5689 p.l.    "      "   15, 1928
5690 d.      "      Oct.    5, 1929
5691 r.      "      Sept.  23, 1930
5692 p.l.    "      "   12, 1931
5693 p.      "      Oct.    1, 1932
5694 r.      "      Sept.  23, 1933
5695 d.l.    "      "   10, 1934
5696 p.      "      "   28, 1935
d. = defective year; d.l. = defective leap year; p. = perfect year;
p.l. = perfect leap year; r. = regular year; r.l. = regular leap
year.

JEWRY
Jew"ry, n. Etym: [OE. Jewerie, OF. Juierie, F. Juiverie.]

Defn: Judea; also, a district inhabited by Jews; a Jews' quarter.
Chaucer.
Teaching throughout all Jewry. Luke xxiii. 5.

JEW'S-EAR
Jew's"-ear`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of fungus (Hirneola Auricula-Judæ, or Auricula),
bearing some resemblance to the human ear.

JEW'S-HARP
Jew's-harp`, n. Etym: [Jew + harp; or possibly a corrupt. of jaw's
harp; cf. G. maultrommel, lit., mouthdrum.]1. An instrument of music,
which, when placed between the teeth, gives, by means of a bent metal
tongue struck by the finger, a sound which is modulated by the
breath; -- called also Jew's-trump.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The shackle for joining a chain cable to an anchor.

JEW'S-STONE; JEWSTONE
Jew's-stone`, Jew"stone`, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A large clavate spine of a fossil sea urchin.

JEZEBEL
Jez"e*bel, n. Etym: [From Jezebel, Heb. Izebel, the wife of Ahab king
of Israel.]

Defn: A bold, vicious woman; a termagant. Spectator.

JHARAL
Jha"ral, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wild goat (Capra Jemlaica) which inhabits the loftiest
mountains of India. It has long, coarse hair, forming a thick mane on
its head and neck.

JIB
Jib, n. Etym: [Named from its shifting from side to side. See Jib, v.
i.., Jibe.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A triangular sail set upon a stay or halyard extending from the
foremast or fore-topmast to the bowsprit or the jib boom. Large
vessels often carry several jibe; as, inner jib; outer jib; flying
jib; etc.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: The projecting arm of a crane, from which the load is
suspended. Jib boom (Naut.), a spar or boom which serves as an
extension of the bowsprit. It is sometimes extended by another spar
called the flying jib boom. [Written also gib boom.] -- Jib crane
(Mach.), a crane having a horizontal jib on which a trolley moves,
bearing the load.
 -- Jib door (Arch.), a door made flush with the wall, without
dressings or moldings; a disguised door.
 -- Jib header (Naut.), a gaff-topsail, shaped like a jib; a jib-
headed topsail.
 -- Jib topsail (Naut.), a small jib set above and outside of all the
other jibs.
 -- The cut of one's jib, one's outward appearance. [Colloq.] Sir W.
Scott.

JIB
Jib, v. i. Etym: [Connected with jibe; cf. OF. giber to shake.]

Defn: To move restively backward or sidewise, -- said of a horse; to
balk. [Written also jibb.] [Eng.]

JIB; JIBB
Jib, v. t. & i.  [imp. & p. p. Jibbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Jibbing.] Also
Jibb. [Cf. Jib a sail, Gybe.] (Chiefly Naut.)

Defn: To shift, or swing round, as a sail, boom, yard, etc., as in
tacking.

JIBBER
Jib"ber, n.

Defn: A horse that jibs. [Eng.]

JIBE
Jibe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jibed; p. pr. & vb. n. Jibing.] Etym: [Cf.
Dan. gibbe, D. gijpen, v. i., and dial. Sw. gippa to jerk. Cf. Jib,
n. & v. i.] (Naut.)

Defn: To shift, as the boom of a fore-and-aft sail, from one side of
a vessel to the other when the wind is aft or on the quarter. See
Gybe.

JIBE
Jibe, v. i.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: To change a ship's course so as to cause a shifting of the
boom. See Jibe, v. t., and Gybe.

2. To agree; to harmonize. [Colloq.] Bartlett.

JIFFY
Jif"fy, n. Etym: [Perh. corrupt. fr. gliff.] [Written also giffy.]

Defn: A moment; an instant; as, I will be ready in a jiffy. [Colloq.]
J. & H. Smith.

JIG
Jig, n. Etym: [OF. gigue a stringed instrument, a kind of dance, F.
gigue dance, tune, gig; of German origin; cf. MHG. gige fiddle, G.
geige. Cf. Gig a fiddle, Gig a whirligig.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A light, brisk musical movement.
Hot and hasty, like a Scotch jib. Shak.

3. A light, humorous piece of writing, esp. in rhyme; a farce in
verse; a ballad. [Obs.]
A jig shall be clapped at, and every rhyme Praised and applauded.
Beau. & Fl.

4. A piece of sport; a trick; a prank. [Obs.]
Is't not a fine jig, A precious cunning, in the late Protector Beau &
Fl.

5. A trolling bait, consisting of a bright spoon and a hook attached.

6. (Mach.)
(a) A small machine or handy tool; esp.: (Metal Working)

Defn: A contrivance fastened to or inclosing a piece of work, and
having hard steel surfaces to guide a tool, as a drill, or to form a
shield or templet to work to, as in filing.
(b) (Mining) An apparatus or a machine for jigging ore. Drill jig, a
jig for guiding a drill. See Jig,

6 (a).
 -- Jig drilling, Jig filing (Metal Working), a process of drilling
or filing in which the action of the tool is directed or limited by a
jig.
 -- Jig saw, a sawing machine with a narrow, vertically reciprocating
saw, used to cut curved and irregular lines, or ornamental patterns
in openwork, a scroll saw; -- called also gig saw.

JIG
Jig, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jigged; p. pr. & vb. n. Jigging.]

1. To sing to the tune of a jig.
Jig off a tune at the tongue's end. Shak.

2. To trick or cheat; to cajole; to delude. Ford.

3. (Mining)

Defn: To sort or separate, as ore in a jigger or sieve. See Jigging,
n.

4. (Metal Working)

Defn: To cut or form, as a piece of metal, in a jigging machine.

JIG
Jig, v. i.

Defn: To dance a jig; to skip about.
You jig, you amble, and you lisp. Shak.

JIGGER
Jig"ger, n. Etym: [A corrupt. of chigre.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of flea (Sarcopsylla, or Pulex, penetrans), which
burrows beneath the skin. See Chigoe.

JIGGER
Jig"ger, n. Etym: [See Jig, n. & v.]

1. One who, or that which, jigs; specifically, a miner who sorts or
cleans ore by the process of jigging; also, the sieve used in
jigging.

2. (Pottery)
(a) A horizontal table carrying a revolving mold, on which earthen
vessels are shaped by rapid motion; a potter's wheel.
(b) A templet or tool by which vessels are shaped on a potter's
wheel.

3. (Naut.)
(a) A light tackle, consisting of a double and single block and the
fall, used for various purposes, as to increase the purchase on a
topsail sheet in hauling it home; the watch tackle. Totten.
(b) A small fishing vessel, rigged like a yawl. [New Eng.]
(c) A supplementary sail. See Dandy, n., 2 (b).

4. A pendulum rolling machine for slicking or graining leather; same
as Jack, 4 (i). Jigger mast. (Naut.) (a) The after mast of a four-
masted vessel. (b) The small mast set at the stern of a yawlrigged
boat.

JIGGING
Jig"ging, n. (Mining)

Defn: The act or using a jig; the act of separating ore with a
jigger, or wire-bottomed sieve, which is moved up and down in water.
Jigging machine. (a) (Mining) A machine for separating ore by the
process of jigging. (b) (Metal Working) A machine with a rotary
milling cutter and a templet by which the action of the cutter is
guided or limited; -- used for forming the profile of an irregularly
shaped piece; a profiling machine.

JIGGISH
Jig"gish, a.

1. Resembling, or suitable for, a jig, or lively movement. Tatler.

2. Playful; frisky. [R.]
She is never sad, and yet not jiggish. Habington.

JIGGLE
Jig"gle, v. i. Etym: [Freq. of jig.]

Defn: To wriggle or frisk about; to move awkwardly; to shake up and
down.

JIGJOG
Jig"jog`, n.

Defn: A jolting motion; a jogging pace.

JIGJOG
Jig"jog, a.

Defn: Having a jolting motion.

JIHAD; JEHAD
Ji*had", Je*had", n. [Ar. jihad.] (Moham.)

Defn: A religious war against infidels or Mohammedan heretics; also,
any bitter war or crusade for a principle or belief.

[Their] courage in war . . . had not, like that of the Mohammedan
dervishes of the Sudan, or of Mohammedans anywhere engaged in a
jehad, a religious motive and the promise of future bliss behind it.
James Bryce.

JILL
Jill, n. Etym: [See Gill sweetheart.]

Defn: A young woman; a sweetheart. See Gill. Beau. & Fl.

JILL-FLIRT
Jill"-flirt`, n.

Defn: A light, giddy, or wanton girl or woman. See Gill-flirt.

JILT
Jilt, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. Scot. jillet a giddy girl, a jill-flirt,
dim. of jill a jill.]

Defn: A woman who capriciously deceives her lover; a coquette; a
flirt. Otway.

JILT
Jilt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jilted; p. pr. & vb. n. Jilting.]

Defn: To cast off capriciously or unfeeling, as a lover; to deceive
in love. Locke.

JILT
Jilt, v. i.

Defn: To play the jilt; to practice deception in love; to discard
lovers capriciously. Congreve.

JIMCRACK
Jim"crack`, n.

Defn: See Gimcrack.

JIM-CROW
Jim"-crow`, n. (Mach.)

1. A machine for bending or straightening rails.

2. A planing machine with a reversing tool, to plane both ways.

JIM CROW
Jim Crow.

Defn: A negro; -- said to be so called from a popular negro song and
dance, the refrain of which is "Wheel about and turn about and jump
Jim Crow," produced in 1835 by T. D. Rice, a famous negro minstrel.
[Slang, U. S.]

JIMMY
Jim"my, n.; pl. Jimmies. Etym: [Cf. Jemmy.]

Defn: A short crowbar used by burglars in breaking open doors.
[Written also jemmy.]

JIMP
Jimp, a. Etym: [Cf. Gimp, a.]

Defn: Neat; handsome; elegant. See Gimp.

JIMSON WEED
Jim"son weed`

Defn: . See Jamestown weed. [Local, U.S.]

JIN; JINN
Jin, Jinn, n.

Defn: See Jinnee. "Solomon is said to have had power over the jin."
Balfour (Cyc. of India).

JINGAL
Jin*gal", n. Etym: [Hind. jangal a swivel, a large musket.]

Defn: A small portable piece of ordnance, mounted on a swivel.
[Written also gingal and jingall.] [India]

JINGLE
Jin"gle, v. i. Etym: [OE. gingelen, ginglen; prob. akin to E. chink;
cf. also E. jangle.]

1. To sound with a fine, sharp, rattling, clinking, or tinkling
sound; as, sleigh bells jingle. [Written also gingle.]

2. To rhyme or sound with a jingling effect. "Jingling street
ballads." Macaulay.

JINGLE
Jin"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jingled; p. pr. & vb. n. Jingling.]

Defn: To cause to give a sharp metallic sound as a little bell, or as
coins shaken together; to tinkle.
The bells she jingled, and the whistle blew. Pope.

JINGLE
Jin"gle, n.

1. A rattling, clinking, or tinkling sound, as of little bells or
pieces of metal.

2. That which makes a jingling sound, as a rattle.
If you plant where savages are, do not only entertain them with
trifles and jingles,but use them justly. Bacon.

3. A correspondence of sound in rhymes, especially when the verse has
little merit; hence, the verse itself." The least jingle of verse."
Guardian. Jingle shell. See Gold shell (b), under Gold.

JINGLER
Jin"gler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, jingles.

JINGLING
Jin"gling, n.

Defn: The act or process of producing a jingle; also, the sound
itself; a chink. "The jingling of the guinea." Tennyson.

JINGLINGLY
Jin"gling*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to jingle. Lowell.

JINGO
Jin"go, n.; pl. Jingoes. Etym: [Said to be a corruption of St.
Gingoulph.]

1. A word used as a jocular oath. "By the living jingo." Goldsmith.

2. A statesman who pursues, or who favors, aggressive, domineering
policy in foreign affairs. [Cant, Eng.]

Note: This sense arose from a doggerel song which was popular during
the Turco-Russian war of 1877 and 1878. The first two lines were as
follows: --
We don't want to fight, but by Jingo if we do, We 've got the ships,
we 've got the men, we 've got the money too.

JINGOISM
Jin"go*ism, n.

Defn: The policy of the Jingoes, so called. See Jingo, 2. [Cant,
Eng.]

JINK
Jink, v. i. [Cf. Jig, v. i.]

1. To move quickly, esp. with a sudden turn; hence, to dodge; to
escape by a quick turn; --obs. or dial., except as a hunting term in
pig-sticking.

2.  (Card Playing) In the games of spoilfive and forty-five, to win
the game by taking all five tricks; also, to play to win  all five
tricks, losing what has been already won if unsuccessful.

JINNEE
Jin"nee, n.; pl. Jinn. Etym: [Ar.] (Arabian & Mohammedan Myth.)

Defn: A genius or demon; one of the fabled genii, good and evil
spirits, supposed to be the children of fire, and to have the power
of assuming various forms. [Written also jin, djinnee, etc.]

Note: Jinn is also used as sing., with pl. jinns (.

JINNY ROAD
Jin"ny road`. Etym: [Cf. Gin an engine, Ginnycarriage.] (Mining)

Defn: An inclined road in a coal mine, on which loaded cars descend
by gravity, drawing up empty ones. Knight.

JINRIKISHA
Jin*rik"i*sha, n. Etym: [Jap. jin man + riki power + sha carriage.]

Defn: A small, two-wheeled, hooded vehicle drawn by one more men.
[Japan]

JINX
Jinx, n.

Defn: A person, object, influence, or supernatural being which is
supposed to bring bad luck or to cause things to go wrong. [Slang]

JIPPO
Jip"po, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. juppon.]

Defn: A waistcoat or kind of stays for women.

JO
Jo, n.; pl. Joes. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A sweetheart; a darling. [Scot.] Burns.

JOB
Job, n. Etym: [Prov. E. job, gob, n., a small piece of wood, v., to
stab, strike; cf. E. gob, gobbet; perh. influenced by E. chop to cut
off, to mince. See Gob.]

1. A sudden thrust or stab; a jab.

2. A piece of chance or occasional work; any definite work undertaken
in gross for a fixed price; as, he did the job for a thousand
dollars.

3. A public transaction done for private profit; something performed
ostensibly as a part of official duty, but really for private gain; a
corrupt official business.

4. Any affair or event which affects one, whether fortunately or
unfortunately. [Colloq.]

5. A situation or opportunity of work; as, he lost his job. [Colloq.]

Note: Job is used adjectively to signify doing jobs, used for jobs,
or let on hire to do jobs; as, job printer; job master; job horse;
job wagon, etc. By the job, at a stipulated sum for the work, or for
each piece of work done; -- distinguished from time work; as, the
house was built by the job.
 -- Job lot, a quantity of goods, usually miscellaneous, sold out of
the regular course of trade, at a certain price for the whole; as,
these articles were included in a job lot.
 -- Job master, one who lest out horses and carriages for hire, as
for family use. [Eng.] -- Job printer, one who does miscellaneous
printing, esp. circulars, cards, billheads, etc.
 -- Odd job, miscellaneous work of a petty kind; occasional work, of
various kinds, or for various people.

JOB
Job, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jobbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Jobbing.]

1. To strike or stab with a pointed instrument. L'Estrange.

2. To thrust in, as a pointed instrument. Moxon.

3. To do or cause to be done by separate portions or lots; to sublet
(work); as, to job a contract.

4. (Com.)

Defn: To buy and sell, as a broker; to purchase of importers or
manufacturers for the purpose of selling to retailers; as, to job
goods.

5. To hire or let by the job or for a period of service; as, to job a
carriage. Thackeray.

JOB
Job, v. i.

1. To do chance work for hire; to work by the piece; to do petty
work.
Authors of all work, to job for the season. Moore.

2. To seek private gain under pretense of public service; to turn
public matters to private advantage.
And judges job, and bishops bite the town. Pope.

3. To carry on the business of a jobber in merchandise or stocks.

JOB
Job, n.

Defn: The hero of the book of that name in the Old Testament; the
typical patient man. Job's comforter. (a) A false friend; a tactless
or malicious person who, under pretense of sympathy, insinuates
rebukes. (b) A boil. [Colloq.] -- Job's news, bad news. Carlyle.
 -- Job's tears (Bot.), a kind of grass (Coix Lacryma), with hard,
shining, pearly grains.

JOBATION
Jo*ba"tion, n. Etym: [Prov. E. job to scold, to reprove, perh. fr.
Job, the proper name.]

Defn: A scolding; a hand, tedious reproof. [Law] Grose.

JOBBER
Job"ber, n.

1. One who works by the job.

2. A dealer in the public stocks or funds; a stockjobber. [Eng.]

3. One who buys goods from importers, wholesalers, or manufacturers,
and sells to retailers.

4. One who turns official or public business to private advantage;
hence, one who performs low or mercenary work in office, politics, or
intrigue.

JOBBERNOWL
Job"ber*nowl`, n. Etym: [OE. jobbernoule, fr. jobarde a stupid
fellow; cf. E. noll.]

Defn: A blockhead. [Colloq. & Obs.] H. Taylor.

JOBBERY
Job"ber*y, n.

1. The act or practice of jobbing.

2. Underhand management; official corruption; as, municipal jobbery.
Mayhew.

JOBBING
Job"bing, a.

1. Doing chance work or add jobs; as, a jobbing carpenter.

2. Using opportunities of public service for private gain; as, a
jobbing politician. London Sat. Rev. Jobbing house, a mercantile
establishment which buys from importers, wholesalers or
manufacturers, and sells to retailers. [U.S.]

JOCANTRY
Jo"cant*ry, n. Etym: [L. jocans, p. pr. of jocare to jest, fr. jocus
a jest.]

Defn: The act or practice of jesting. [Obs.]

JOCKEY
Jock"ey, n.; pl. Jockeys. Etym: [Dim. of Jack, Scot. Jock; orig., a
boy who rides horses. See 2d Jack.]

1. A professional rider of horses in races. Addison.

2. A dealer in horses; a horse trader. Macaulay.

3. A cheat; one given to sharp practice in trade.

JOCKEY
Jock"ey, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jockeyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Jockeying.]

1. " To jostle by riding against one." Johnson.

2. To play the jockey toward; to cheat; to trick; to impose upon in
trade; as, to jockey a customer.

JOCKEY
Jock"ey, v. i.

Defn: To play or act the jockey; to cheat.

JOCKEYING
Jock"ey*ing, n.

Defn: The act or management of one who jockeys; trickery.
Beaconsfield.

JOCKEYISM
Jock"ey*ism, n.

Defn: The practice of jockeys.

JOCKEYSHIP
Jock"ey*ship, n.

Defn: The art, character, or position, of a jockey; the personality
of a jockey.
Go flatter Sawney for his jockeyship. Chatterton.
Where can at last his jockeyship retire Cowper.

JOCOSE
Jo*cose", a. Etym: [L jocosus, fr. jocus joke. See Joke.]

Defn: Given to jokes and jesting; containing a joke, or abounding in
jokes; merry; sportive; humorous.
To quit their austerity and be jocose and pleasant with an adversary.
Shaftesbury.
All . . . jocose or comical airs should be excluded. I. Watts.

Syn.
 -- Jocular; facetious; witty; merry; pleasant; waggish; sportive;
funny; comical.
 -- Jo*cose"ly, adv.
 -- Jo*cose"ness, n.
Spondanus imagines that Ulysses may possibly speak jocosely, but in
truth Ulysses never behaves with levity. Broome.
He must beware lest his letter should contain anything like
jocoseness; since jesting is incompatible with a holy and serious
life. Buckle.

JOCOSERIOUS
Jo`co*se"ri*ous, a. Etym: [Jocose + serious.]

Defn: Mingling mirth and seriousness. M. Green.

JOCOSITY
Jo*cos"i*ty, n.

Defn: A jocose act or saying; jocoseness. Sir T. Browne.

JOCULAR
Joc"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. jocularis, fr. joculus, dim. of jocus joke.
See Joke.]

1. Given to jesting; jocose; as, a jocular person.

2. Sportive; merry. "Jocular exploits." Cowper.
The style is serious and partly jocular. Dryden.

JOCULARITY
Joc`u*lar"i*ty, n.

Defn: Jesting; merriment.

JOCULARLY
Joc"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In jest; for sport or mirth; jocosely.

JOCULARY
Joc"u*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. jocularius. Cf. Jocular.]

Defn: Jocular; jocose; sportive. Bacon.

JOCULATOR
Joc"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [L. See Juggler.]

Defn: A jester; a joker. [Obs.] Strutt.

JOCULATORY
Joc"u*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. joculatorius.]

Defn: Droll; sportive. [Obs.] Cockeram.

JOCUND
Joc"und, Etym: [L. jocundus, jucundus, orig., helpful, fr. juvare to
help. See Aid.]

Defn: Merry; cheerful; gay; airy; lively; sportive.
Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the
misty mountain tops. Shak.
Rural sports and jocund strains. Prior.
-- Joc"und*ly, adv.
 -- Joc"und*ness, n.

JOCUND
Joc"und, adv.

Defn: Merrily; cheerfully. Gray.

JOCUNDITY
Jo*cun"di*ty, n. Etym: [L. jocunditas jucunditas. See Jocund, and cf.
Jucundity.]

Defn: The state or quality of being jocund; gayety; sportiveness.

JOE
Joe, n.

Defn: See Johannes.

JOE MILLER
Joe" Mil"ler. Etym: [From Joseph Miller, a comic actor, whose name
was attached, after his death, to a popular jest book published in
1739.]

Defn: A jest book; a stale jest; a worn-out joke. [Colloq.]
It is an old Joe Miller in whist circles, that there are only two
reasons that can justify you in not returning trumps to your
partner's lead; i. e., first, sudden illness; secondly, having none.
Pole.

JOE-PYE WEED
Joe`-Pye" weed`. (Bot.)

Defn: A tall composite plant of the genus Eupatorium (E. purpureum),
with purplish flowers, and whorled leaves.

JOG
Jog, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jogged; p. pr. & vb. n. Jogging.] Etym: [OE.
joggen; cf. W. gogi to shake, and also E. shog, shock, v.]

1. To push or shake with the elbow or hand; to jostle; esp., to push
or touch, in order to give notice, to excite one's attention, or to
warn.
Now leaps he upright, jogs me, and cries: Do you see Yonder well-
favored youth Donne.
Sudden I jogged Ulysses, who was laid Fast by my side. Pope.

2. To suggest to; to notify; to remind; to call the attention of; as,
to jog the memory.

3. To cause to jog; to drive at a jog, as a horse. See Jog, v. i.

JOG
Jog, v. i.

Defn: To move by jogs or small shocks, like those of a slow trot; to
move slowly, leisurely, or monotonously; -- usually with on,
sometimes with over.
Jog on, jog on, the footpath way. Shak.
So hung his destiny, never to rot,
While he might still jog on and keep his trot. Milton
.
The good old ways our sires jogged safely over. R. Browning.

JOG
Jog, n.

1. A slight shake; a shake or push intended to give notice or awaken
attention; a push; a jolt.
To give them by turns an invisible jog. Swift.

2. A rub; a slight stop; an obstruction; hence, an irregularity in
motion of from; a hitch; a break in the direction of a line or the
surface of a plane. Glanvill. Jog trot, a slow, regular, jolting
gait; hence, a routine habit or method, persistently adhered to. T.
Hook.

JOGGER
Jog"ger, n.

Defn: One who jogs. Dryden.

JOGGING
Jog"ging, n.

Defn: The act of giving a jog or jogs; traveling at a jog.

JOGGLE
Jog"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Joggled; p. pr. & vb. n. Joggling.]
Etym: [Freq. of jog.]

1. To shake slightly; to push suddenly but slightly, so as to cause
to shake or totter; to jostle; to jog.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: To join by means of joggles, so as to prevent sliding apart;
sometimes, loosely, to dowel.
The struts of a roof are joggled into the truss posts. Gwilt.

JOGGLE
Jog"gle, v. i.

Defn: To shake or totter; to slip out of place.

JOGGLE
Jog"gle, n. [Arch.]

Defn: A notch or tooth in the joining surface of any piece of
building material to prevent slipping; sometimes, but incorrectly,
applied to a separate piece fitted into two adjacent stones, or the
like. Joggle joint (Arch.), a joint in any kind of building material,
where the joining surfaces are made with joggles.

JOHANNEAN
Jo`han*ne"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to John, esp. to the Apostle John or his
writings. M. Stuart.

JOHANNES
Jo*han"nes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Y, Y, i. e., one whom Jehovah has
blessed; hence F. Jean, E. John.] (Numis.)

Defn: A Portuguese gold coin of the value of eight dollars, named
from the figure of King John which it bears;- often contracted into
joe; as, a joe, or a half joe.

JOHANNISBERGER
Jo*han"nis*ber`ger, n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: A fine white wine produced on the estate of Schloss (or Castle)
Johannisberg, on the Rhine.

JOHN
John, n. Etym: [See Johannes.]

Defn: A proper name of a man. John-apple, a sort of apple ripe about
St. John's Day. Same as Apple-john.
 -- John Bull, an ideal personification of the typical
characteristics of an Englishman, or of the English people.
 -- John Bullism, English character. W. Irving.
 -- John Doe (Law), the name formerly given to the fictitious
plaintiff in an action of ejectment. Mozley & W.
 -- John Doree, John Dory. Etym: [John (or F. jaune yellow) + Doree,
Dory.] (Zoöl.) An oval, compressed, European food fish (Zeus faber).
Its color is yellow and olive, with golden, silvery, and blue
reflections. It has a round dark spot on each side. Called also dory,
doree, and St. Peter's fish.

JOHNADREAMS
John"a*dreams`, n.

Defn: A dreamy, idle fellow. Shak.

JOHNNY
John"ny, n.; pl. Johnnies (.

1. A familiar diminutive of John.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sculpin. [Local cant] Johny Crapaud (, a jocose designation
of a Frenchman, or of the French people, collectively.

JOHNNYCAKE
John"ny*cake`, n.

Defn: A kind of bread made of the meal of maize (Indian corn), mixed
with water or milk, etc., and baked. [U.S.] J. Barlow.

JOHNSONESE
John`son*ese", n.

Defn: The literary style of Dr. Samuel Johnson, or one formed in
imitation of it; an inflated, stilted, or pompous style, affecting
classical words. E. Everett.

JOHNSON GRASS
John"son grass`. Etym: [Named after W. Johnson of Alabama, who
planted it about 1840-1845.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tall perennial grass (Sorghum Halepense), valuable in the
Southern and Western States for pasture and hay. The rootstocks are
large and juicy and are eagerly sought by swine. Called also Cuba
grass, Means grass, Evergreen millet, and Arabian millet.

JOHNSONIAN
John*so"ni*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to or resembling Dr. Johnson or his style; pompous;
inflated.

JOHNSONIANISM
John*so"ni*an*ism, n.

Defn: A manner of acting or of writing peculiar to, or characteristic
of, Dr. Johnson. [Written also Johnsonism.]

JOHN'S-WORT
John's"-wort`, n.

Defn: See St. John's-wort.

JOIN
Join, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Joined; p. pr. & vb. n. Joining.] Etym:
[OE. joinen, joignen, F. joindre, fr. L. jungere to yoke, bind
together, join; akin to jugum yoke. See Yoke, and cf. Conjugal,
Junction, Junta.]

1. To bring together, literally or figuratively; to place in contact;
to connect; to couple; to unite; to combine; to associate; to add; to
append.
Woe unto them that join house to house. Is. v. 8.
Held up his left hand, which did flame and burn Like twenty torches
joined. Shak.
Thy tuneful voice with numbers join. Dryden.

2. To associate one's self to; to be or become connected with; to
league one's self with; to unite with; as, to join a party; to join
the church.
We jointly now to join no other head. Dryden.

3. To unite in marriage.
He that joineth his virgin in matrimony. Wyclif.
What, therefore, God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.
Matt. xix. 6.

4. To enjoin upon; to command. [Obs. & R.]
They join them penance, as they call it. Tyndale.

5. To accept, or engage in, as a contest; as, to join encounter,
battle, issue. Milton. To join battle, To join issue. See under
Battle, Issue.

Syn.
 -- To add; annex; unite; connect; combine; consociate; couple; link;
append. See Add.

JOIN
Join, v. i.

Defn: To be contiguous, close, or in contact; to come together; to
unite; to mingle; to form a union; as, the hones of the skull join;
two rivers join.
Whose house joined hard to the synagogue. Acts xviii. 7.
Should we again break thy commandments, and join in affinity with the
people of these abominations Ezra ix. 14.
Nature and fortune joined to make thee great. Shak.

JOIN
Join, n. (Geom.)

Defn: The line joining two points; the point common to two
intersecting lines. Henrici.

JOINANT
Join"ant, a. Etym: [OF. & F. joignant, p. pr. of joindre to join.]

Defn: Adjoining. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JOINDER
Join"der, n. Etym: [F. joindre. See Join, v. t.]

1. The act of joining; a putting together; conjunction.
Confirmed by mutual joinder of your hands. Shak.

2. (Law)
(a) A joining of parties as plaintiffs or defendants in a suit.
(b) Acceptance of an issue tendered in law or fact.
(c) A joining of causes of action or defense in civil suits or
criminal prosecutions.

JOINER
Join"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, joins.

2. One whose occupation is to construct articles by joining pieces of
wood; a mechanic who does the woodwork (as doors, stairs, etc.)
necessary for the finishing of buildings. "One Snug, the joiner."
Shak.

3. A wood-working machine, for sawing, plaining, mortising, tenoning,
grooving, etc.

Syn.
 -- See Carpenter.

JOINERY
Join"er*y, n.

Defn: The art, or trade, of a joiner; the work of a joiner.
A piece of joinery . . . whimsically dovetailed. Burke.

JOINHAND
Join"hand`, n.

Defn: Writing in which letters are joined in words; -- distinguished
from writing in single letters. Addison.

JOINT
Joint, n. Etym: [F. joint, fr. joindre, p. p. joint. See Join.]

1. The place or part where two things or parts are joined or united;
the union of two or more smooth or even surfaces admitting of a
close-fitting or junction; junction as, a joint between two pieces of
timber; a joint in a pipe.

2. A joining of two things or parts so as to admit of motion; an
articulation, whether movable or not; a hinge; as, the knee joint; a
node or joint of a stem; a ball and socket joint. See Articulation.
A scaly gauntlet now, with joints of steel, Must glove this hand.
Shak.
To tear thee joint by joint. Milton.

3. The part or space included between two joints, knots, nodes, or
articulations; as, a joint of cane or of a grass stem; a joint of the
leg.

4. Any one of the large pieces of meat, as cut into portions by the
butcher for roasting.

5. (Geol.)

Defn: A plane of fracture, or divisional plane, of a rock transverse
to the stratification.

6. (Arch.)

Defn: The space between the adjacent surfaces of two bodies joined
and held together, as by means of cement, mortar, etc.; as, a thin
joint.

7. The means whereby the meeting surfaces of pieces in a structure
are secured together. Coursing joint (Masonry), the mortar joint
between two courses of bricks or stones.
 -- Fish joint, Miter joint, Universal joint, etc. See under Fish,
Miter, etc.
 -- Joint bolt, a bolt for fastening two pieces, as of wood, one
endwise to the other, having a nut embedded in one of the pieces.
 -- Joint chair (Railroad), the chair that supports the ends of
abutting rails.
 -- Joint coupling, a universal joint for coupling shafting. See
under Universal.
 -- Joint hinge, a hinge having long leaves; a strap hinge.
 -- Joint splice, a reënforce at a joint, to sustain the parts in
their true relation.
 -- Joint stool. (a) A stool consisting of jointed parts; a folding
stool. Shak. (b) A block for supporting the end of a piece at a
joint; a joint chair.
 -- Out of joint, out of place; dislocated, as when the head of a
bone slips from its socket; hence, not working well together;
disordered. "The time is out of joint." Shak.

JOINT
Joint, a. Etym: [F., p. p. of joindre. See Join.]

1. Joined; united; combined; concerted; as joint action.

2. Involving the united activity of two or more; done or produced by
two or more working together.
I read this joint effusion twice over. T. Hook.

3. United, joined, or sharing with another or with others; not
solitary in interest or action; holding in common with an associate,
or with associates; acting together; as, joint heir; joint creditor;
joint debtor, etc. "Joint tenants of the world." Donne.

4. Shared by, or affecting two or more; held in common; as, joint
property; a joint bond.
A joint burden laid upon us all. Shak.
Joint committee (Parliamentary Practice), a committee composed of
members of the two houses of a legislative body, for the appointment
of which concurrent resolutions of the two houses are necessary.
Cushing.
 -- Joint meeting, or Joint session, the meeting or session of two
distinct bodies as one; as, a joint meeting of committees
representing different corporations; a joint session of both branches
of a State legislature to chose a United States senator. "Such joint
meeting shall not be dissolved until the electoral votes are all
counted and the result declared." Joint Rules of Congress, U. S.
 -- Joint resolution (Parliamentary Practice), a resolution adopted
concurrently by the two branches of a legislative body. "By the
constitution of the United States and the rules of the two houses, no
absolute distinction is made between bills and joint resolutions."
Barclay (Digest).
 -- Joint rule (Parliamentary Practice), a rule of proceeding adopted
by the concurrent action of both branches of a legislative assembly.
"Resolved, by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring),
that the sixteenth and seventeenth joint rules be suspended for the
remainder of the session." Journal H. of R., U. S.
 -- Joint and several (Law), a phrase signifying that the debt,
credit, obligation, etc., to which it is applied is held in such a
way that the parties in interest are engaged both together and
individually thus a joint and several debt is one for which all the
debtors may be sued together or either of them individually.
 -- Joint stock, stock held in company.
 -- Joint-stock company (Law), a species of partnership, consisting
generally of a large number of members, having a capital divided, or
agreed to be divided, into shares, the shares owned by any member
being usually transferable without the consent of the rest.
 -- Joint tenancy (Law), a tenure by two or more persons of estate by
unity of interest, title, time, and possession, under which the
survivor takes the whole. Blackstone.
 -- Joint tenant (Law), one who holds an estate by joint tenancy.

JOINT
Joint, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jointed; p. pr. & vb. n. Jointing.]

1. To unite by a joint or joints; to fit together; to prepare so as
to fit together; as, to joint boards.
Pierced through the yielding planks of jointed wood. Pope.

2. To join; to connect; to unite; to combine.
Jointing their force 'gainst Cæsar. Shak.

3. To provide with a joint or joints; to articulate.
The fingers are jointed together for motion. Ray.

4. To separate the joints; of; to divide at the joint or joints; to
disjoint; to cut up into joints, as meat. "He joints the neck.
Dryden.
Quartering, jointing, seething, and roasting. Holland.

JOINT
Joint, v. i.

Defn: To fit as if by joints; to coalesce as joints do; as, the
stones joint, neatly.

JOINTED
Joint"ed, a.

Defn: Having joints; articulated; full of nodes; knotty; as, a
jointed doll; jointed structure. "The jointed herbage." J. Philips.
 -- Joint"ed*ly, adv.

JOINTER
Joint"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, joints.

2. A plane for smoothing the surfaces of pieces which are to be
accurately joined; especially:
(a) The longest plane used by a joiner.
(b) (Coopering) A long stationary plane, for plaining the edges of
barrel staves.

3. (Masonry)
(a) A bent piece of iron inserted to strengthen the joints of a wall.
(b) A tool for pointing the joints in brickwork.

JOINT-FIR
Joint"-fir`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus (Ephedra) of leafless shrubs, with the stems
conspicuously jointed; -- called also shrubby horsetail. There are
about thirty species, of which two or three are found from Texas to
California.

JOINTING
Joint"ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of making a joint; also, the joints thus
produced. Jointing machine, a planing machine for wood used in
furniture and piano factories, etc.
 -- Jointing plane. See Jointer, 2.
 -- Jointing rule (Masonry), a long straight rule, used by
bricklayers for securing straight joints and faces.

JOINTLESS
Joint"less, a.

Defn: Without a joint; rigid; stiff.

JOINTLY
Joint"ly, adv.

Defn: In a joint manner; together; unitedly; in concert; not
separately.
Then jointly to the ground their knees they bow. Shak.

JOINTRESS
Joint"ress, n. (Law)

Defn: A woman who has a jointure. [Written also jointuress.]
Blackstone.

JOINTURE
Join"ture, n. Etym: [F. jointure a joint, orig., a joining, L.
junctura, fr. jungere to join. See Join, and cf. Juncture.]

1. A joining; a joint. [Obs.]

2. (Law)

Defn: An estate settled on a wife, which she is to enjoy after
husband's decease, for her own life at least, in satisfaction of
dower.
The jointure that your king must make, Which with her dowry shall be
counterpoised. Shak.

JOINTURE
Join"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jointured; p. pr. & vb. n.
Jointuring.]

Defn: To settle a jointure upon.

JOINTURELESS
Join"ture*less, a.

Defn: Having no jointure.

JOINTURESS
Join"tur*ess, n.

Defn: See Jointress. Bouvier.

JOINTWEED
Joint"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A slender, nearly leafless, American herb (Polygonum
articulatum), with jointed spikes of small flowers.

JOINTWORM
Joint"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larva of a small, hymenopterous fly (Eurytoma hordei),
which is found in gall-like swellings on the stalks of wheat, usually
at or just above the first joint. In some parts of America it does
great damage to the crop.

JOIST
Joist, n. Etym: [OE. giste, OF. giste, F. gîte, fr. gesir to lie, F.
gésir. See Gist.] (Arch.)

Defn: A piece of timber laid horizontally, or nearly so, to which the
planks of the floor, or the laths or furring strips of a ceiling, are
nailed; -- called, according to its position or use, binding joist,
bridging joist, ceiling joist, trimming joist, etc. See Illust. of
Double-framed floor, under Double, a.

JOIST
Joist, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Joisted; p. pr. & vb. n. Joisting.]

Defn: To fit or furnish with joists. Johnson.

JOKE
Joke, n. Etym: [L. jocus. Cf Jeopardy, Jocular, Juggler.]

1. Something said for the sake of exciting a laugh; something witty
or sportive (commonly indicating more of hilarity or humor than
jest); a jest; a witticism; as, to crack good-natured jokes.
And gentle dullness ever loves a joke. Pope.
Or witty joke our airy senses moves To pleasant laughter. Gay.

2. Something not said seriously, or not actually meant; something
done in sport.
Inclose whole downs in walls, 't is all a joke. Pope.
In joke, in jest; sportively; not meant seriously.
 -- Practical joke. See under Practical.

JOKE
Joke, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Joked; p. pr. & vb. n. Joking.]

Defn: To make merry with; to make jokes upon; to rally; to banter;
as, to joke a comrade.

JOKE
Joke, v. i. Etym: [L. jocari.]

Defn: To do something for sport, or as a joke; to be merry in words
or actions; to jest.
He laughed, shouted, joked, and swore. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To jest; sport; rally; banter. See Jest.

JOKER
Jok"er, n.

1. One who makes jokes or jests.

2. (Card Playing)

Defn: See Rest bower, under 2d Bower.

JOKINGLY
Jok"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a joking way; sportively.

JOLE; JOLL
Jole, Joll, v. t. & n.

Defn: Same as Jowl. Shak.

JOLIF
Jol*if", a. Etym: [See Jolly.]

Defn: Joyful; merry; pleasant; jolly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JOLLIFICATION
Jol`li*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Jolly + L. -ficare (in comp.) to make.
See -fy.]

Defn: A merrymaking; noisy festivity. [Colloq.]
We have had a jollification or so together. Sir W. Scott.

JOLLILY
Jol"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a jolly manner.

JOLLIMENT
Jol"li*ment, n.

Defn: Jollity. [Obs.] Spenser.

JOLLINESS
Jol"li*ness, n.

Defn: Jollity; noisy mirth. Chaucer.

JOLLITY
Jol"li*ty, n. Etym: [From Jolly: cf. OF. jolieté, joliveté.]

Defn: Noisy mirth; gayety; merriment; festivity; boisterous
enjoyment. Chaucer.
All now was turned to jollity and game. Milton.
He with a proud jollity commanded him to leave that quarrel only for
him, who was only worthy to enter into it. Sir P. Sidney.

Syn.
 -- Merriment; mirth; gayety; festivity; hilarity.

JOLLY
Jol"ly, a. [Compar. Jollier; superl. Jolliest.] Etym: [OF. joli,
jolif, joyful, merry, F. joli pretty; of Scand. origin, akin to E.
yule; cf. Icel. j yule, Christmass feast. See Yule.]

1. Full of life and mirth; jovial; joyous; merry; mirthful.
Like a jolly troop of huntsmen. Shak.
"A jolly place," said he, "in times of old! But something ails it
now: the spot is cursed." Wordsworth.

2. Expressing mirth, or inspiring it; exciting mirth and gayety.
And with his jolly pipe delights the groves. Prior.
Their jolly notes they chanted loud and clear. Fairfax.

3. Of fine appearance; handsome; excellent; lively; agreeable;
pleasant. "A jolly cool wind." Sir T. North. [Now mostly colloq.]
Full jolly knight he seemed, and fair did sit. Spenser.
The coachman is swelled into jolly dimensions. W. Irving.

JOLLY-BOAT
Jol"ly-boat`, n. Etym: [A corruption of Dan. jolle yawl, or of D. jol
yawl + E. boat. See Yawl the boat.] (Naut.)

Defn: A boat of medium size belonging to a ship.

JOLLYHEAD
Jol"ly*head, n.

Defn: Jollity. [Obs.] Spenser.

JOLT
Jolt, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jolted; p. pr. & vb. n. Jolting.] Etym:
[Prob. fr. jole, joll, jowl, and orig. meaning, to knock on the head.
See Jowl.]

Defn: To shake with short, abrupt risings and fallings, as a carriage
moving on rough ground; as, the coach jolts.

JOLT
Jolt, v. t.

Defn: To cause to shake with a sudden up and down motion, as in a
carriage going over rough ground, or on a high-trotting horse; as,
the horse jolts the rider; fast driving jolts the carriage and the
passengers.

JOLT
Jolt, n.

Defn: A sudden shock or jerk; a jolting motion, as in a carriage
moving over rough ground.
The first jolt had like to have shaken me out. Swift.

JOLTER
Jolt"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, jolts.

JOLTERHEAD; JOLTHEAD
Jolt"er*head`, Jolt"head`, n. Etym: [See Jolt, Jowl.]

Defn: A dunce; a blockhead. Sir T. North.

JOLTINGLY
Jolt"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a jolting manner.

JOLTY
Jolt"y, a.

Defn: That jolts; as, a jolty coach. [Colloq.]

JONAH
Jo"nah, n.

Defn: The Hebrew prophet, who was cast overboard as one who
endangered the ship; hence, any person whose presence is
unpropitious. Jonah crab (Zoöl.), a large crab (Cancer borealis) of
the eastern coast of the United States, sometimes found between
tides, but usually in deep water.

JONESIAN
Jo*ne"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Jones. The Jonesian system, a system of
transliterating Oriental words by English letters, invented by Sir
William Jones.

JONGLEUR; JONGLER
Jon"gleur, Jon"gler, n. Etym: [F. jongleur. See Juggler.]

1. In the Middle Ages, a court attendant or other person who, for
hire, recited or sang verses, usually of his own composition. See
Troubadour.
Vivacity and picturesquenees of the jongleur's verse. J R. Green.

2. A juggler; a conjuror. See Juggler. Milton.

JONQUIL; JONQUILLE
Jon"quil, Jon"quille, n. Etym: [F. jonquille, fr. L. juncus a rush,
because it has rushlike leaves.] (Bot.)

Defn: A bulbous plant of the genus Narcissus (N. Jonquilla), allied
to the daffodil. It has long, rushlike leaves, and yellow or white
fragrant flowers. The root has emetic properties. It is sometimes
called the rush-leaved daffodil. See Illust. of Corona.

JORAM
Jo"ram, n.

Defn: See Jorum.

JORDAN; JORDEN
Jor"dan, Jor"den, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. the river Jordan, and shortened
fr. Jordan bottle a bottle of water from the Jordan, brought back by
pilgrims.]

1. A pot or vessel with a large neck, formerly used by physicians and
alchemists. [Obs.] Halliwell.

2. A chamber pot. [Obs.] Chaucer. Shak.

JORUM
Jo"rum, n. Etym: [Perh. corrupted fr. jorden an earthen pot.]

Defn: A large drinking vessel; also, its contents. [Colloq. Eng.]
Forby.

JOSEPH
Jo"seph, n.

Defn: An outer garment worn in the 18th century; esp., a woman's
riding habit, buttoned down the front. Fairholt.

JOSEPH'S FLOWER
Jo"seph's flow"er. (Bot.)

Defn: A composite herb (Tragopogon pratensis), of the same genus as
the salsify.

JOSO
Jo"so, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small gudgeon.

JOSS
Joss, n. Etym: [Chinese, corrupt. fr. Pg. deos God, L. deus.]

Defn: A Chinese household divinity; a Chinese idol. "Critic in jars
and josses." Colman (1761). Joss house, a Chinese temple or house for
the Chinese mode of worship.
 -- Joss stick, a reed covered with a paste made of the dust of
odoriferous woods, or a cylinder made wholly of the paste; -- burned
by the Chinese before an idol.

JOSSA
Jos"sa, interj.

Defn: A command to a horse, probably meaning "stand still." [Obs.]
Chaucer.

JOSS PAPER
Joss paper.

Defn: Gold and silver paper burned by the Chinese, in the form of
coins or ingots, in worship and at funerals.

JOSTLE
Jos"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jostled; p. pr. & vb. n. Jostling.]
Etym: [A dim. of joust, just, v. See Joust, and cf. Justle.] [Written
also justle.]

Defn: To run against and shake; to push out of the way; to elbow; to
hustle; to disturb by crowding; to crowd against. "Bullies jostled
him." Macaulay.
Systems of movement, physical, intellectual, and moral, which are
perpetually jostling each other. I. Taylor.

JOSTLE
Jos"tle, v. i.

Defn: To push; to crowd; to hustle.
None jostle with him for the wall. Lamb.

JOSTLE
Jos"tle, n.

Defn: A conflict by collisions; a crowding or bumping together;
interference.
The jostle of South African nationalities and civilization. The
Nation.

JOSTLEMENT
Jos"tle*ment, n.

Defn: Crowding; hustling.

JOT
Jot, n. Etym: [L. iota, Gr. i. Heb. y), the smallest letter of the
Greek alphabet. Cf. Iota.]

Defn: An iota; a point; a tittle; the smallest particle. Cf. Bit, n.
Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise
pass from the law, till all be fulfilled. Matt. v. 18.
Neither will they bate One jot of ceremony. Shak.

JOT
Jot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Jotting.]

Defn: To set down; to make a brief note of; -- usually followed by
down.

JOTTER
Jot"ter, n.

1. One who jots down memoranda.

2. A memorandum book.

JOUGS
Jougs, n. Etym: [F. joug a yoke, L. jugum. See Yoke.]

Defn: An iron collar fastened to a wall or post, formerly used in
Scotland as a kind of pillory. [Written also juggs.] See Juke. Sir W.
Scott.

JOUISSANCE
Jou"is*sance, n. Etym: [F., fr. jouir to enjoy, fr. L. gaudere to
rejoice.]

Defn: Jollity; merriment. [Obs.] Spenser.

JOUK
Jouk, v. i.

Defn: See Juke.

JOUL
Joul, v. t.

Defn: See Jowl.

JOULE
Joule, n. Etym: [From the distinguished English physicist, James P.
Joule.] (Physics.)

Defn: A unit of work which is equal to 107 units of work in the C. G.
S. system of units (ergs), and is practically equivalent to the
energy expended in one second by an electric current of one ampere in
a resistance of one ohm. One joule is approximately equal to 0.738
foot pounds. Joule's equivalent. See under Equivalent, n.

JOULEMETER
Joule"me`ter, n.

Defn: An integrating wattmeter for measuring the energy in joules
expended in an electric circuit or developed by a machine.

JOULE'S CYCLE
Joule's cycle. (Thermodynamics)

Defn: The cycle for the air engine proposed by Joule. In it air is
taken by a pump from a cold chamber and compressed adiabatically
until its pressure is eqal to that of the air in a hot chamber, into
which it is then delivered, thereby displacing an equal amount of hot
air into the engine cylinder. Here it expands adiabatically to the
temperature of the cold chamber into which it is finally exhausted.
This cycle, reversed, is used in refrigerating machines.

JOULE'S LAW
Joule's law.

1. (Elec.)

Defn: The law that the rate at which heat is produced in any part of
an electric circuit is measured by the product of the square of the
current into the resistance of that part of the circuit. If the
current
 (i) is constant for an interval of time (t), the energy (H) in heat
units equals i2Rt, R being resistance.

2. (Thermodynamics) The law that there is no change of temperature
when a gas expands without doing external work and without receiving
or rejecting heat.

JOUNCE
Jounce, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Jounced; p. pr. & vb. n. Jouncing.]
Etym: [Cf. Jaunce.]

Defn: To jolt; to shake, especially by rough riding or by driving
over obstructions.

JOUNCE
Jounce, n.

Defn: A jolt; a shake; a hard trot.

JOURNAL
Jour"nal, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. diurnalis diurnal, fr. diurnus
belonging to the day, fr. dies day. See Diurnal.]

Defn: Daily; diurnal. [Obs.]
Whiles from their journal labors they did rest. Spenser.

JOURNAL
Jour"nal, n. Etym: [F. journal. See Journal, a.]

1. A diary; an account of daily transactions and events.
Specifically:
(a) (Bookkeeping) A book of accounts, in which is entered a condensed
and grouped statement of the daily transactions.
(b) (Naut.) A daily register of the ship's course and distance, the
winds, weather, incidents of the voyage, etc.
(c) (Legislature) The record of daily proceedings, kept by the clerk.
(d) A newspaper published daily; by extension, a weekly newspaper or
any periodical publication, giving an account of passing events, the
proceedings and memoirs of societies, etc. ; a periodical; a
magazine.

2. That which has occurred in a day; a day's work or travel; a day's
journey. [Obs. & R.] B. Jonson.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: That portion of a rotating piece, as a shaft, axle, spindle,
etc., which turns in a bearing or box. See Illust. of Axle box.
Journal box, or Journal bearing (Mach.) the carrier of a journal; the
box in which the journal of a shaft, axle, or pin turns.

JOURNALISM
Jour"nal*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. journalisme.]

1. The keeping of a journal or diary. [Obs.]

2. The periodical collection and publication of current news; the
business of managing, editing, or writing for, journals or
newspapers; as, political journalism.
Journalism is now truly an estate of the realm. Ed. Rev.

JOURNALIST
Jour"nal*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. journaliste.]

1. One who keeps a journal or diary. [Obs.] Mickle.

2. The conductor of a public journal, or one whose business it to
write for a public journal; an editorial or other professional writer
for a periodical. Addison.

JOURNALISTIC
Jour"nal*is"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to journals or to journalists; contained in, or
characteristic of, the public journals; as journalistic literature or
enterprise.

JOURNALIZE
Jour"nal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Journalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Journalizing.]

Defn: To enter or record in a journal or diary. Johnson.

JOURNALIZE
Jour"nal*ize, v. i.

Defn: to conduct or contribute to a public journal; to follow the
profession of a journalist.

JOURNEY
Jour"ney, n.; pl. Journeys. Etym: [OE. jornee, journee, prop., a
day's journey, OF. jornée, jurnée, a day, a day's work of journey, F.
journée, fr. OF. jorn, jurn, jor a day, F. jour, fr. L. diurnus. See
Journal.]

1. The travel or work of a day. [Obs.] Chaucer.
We have yet large day, for scarce the sun Hath finished half his
journey. Milton.

2. Travel or passage from one place to another; hence, figuratively,
a passage through life.
The good man . . . is gone a long journey. Prov. vii. 19.
We must all have the same journey's end. Bp. Stillingfleet.

Syn.
 -- Tour; excursion; trip; expedition; pilgrimage.
 -- Journey, Tour, Excursion, Pilgrimage. The word journey suggests
the idea of a somewhat prolonged traveling for a specific object,
leading a person to pass directly from one point to another. In a
tour, we take a roundabout course from place to place, more commonly
for pleasure, though sometimes on business. An excursion is usually a
brief tour or trip for pleasure, health, etc. In a pilgrimage we
travel to a place hallowed by our religions affections, or by some
train of sacred or tender associations. A journey on important
business; the tour of Europe; an excursion to the lakes; a pilgrimage
to the Holy Land.

JOURNEY
Jour"ney, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Journeyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Journeying.]

Defn: To travel from place to place; to go from home to a distance.
Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south. Gen. xii. 9.

JOURNEY
Jour"ney, v. t.

Defn: To traverse; to travel over or through. [R.] "I journeyed many
a land." Sir W. Scott.

JOURNEY-BATED
Jour"ney-bat`ed, a.

Defn: Worn out with journeying. [Obs.] Shak.

JOURNEYER
Jour"ney*er, n.

Defn: One who journeys.

JOURNEYMAN
Jour"ney*man, n.; pl. Journeymen (.

Defn: Formerly, a man hired to work by the day; now, commonly, one
who has mastered a handicraft or trade; -- distinguished from
apprentice and from master workman.
I have thought some of nature's journeymen had made men, and not made
them well. Shak.

JOURNEYWORK
Jour"ney*work`, n.

Defn: Originally, work done by the day; work done by a journeyman at
his trade.

JOUST
Joust, v. i. Etym: [OE. justen, jousten, OF. jouster, jouster,
joster, F. jouter, fr. L. juxta near to, nigh, from the root of
jungere to join. See Join, and cf. Jostle.]

Defn: To engage in mock combat on horseback, as two knights in the
lists; to tilt. [Written also just.]
For the whole army to joust and tourney. Holland.

JOUST
Joust, n. Etym: [OE. juste, jouste, OF. juste, jouste, joste, F.
joute. See Joust, v. i.]

Defn: A tilting match; a mock combat on horseback between two knights
in the lists or inclosed field. [Written also just.]
Gorgeous knights at joust and tournament. Milton.

JOUSTER
Joust"er, n.

Defn: One who jousts or tilts.

JOVE
Jove, n. Etym: [L. Jupiter, gen. Jovis, OL. Jovis, nom. & gen. for
Djovis; akin to E. Tuesday. See Tuesday, and cf. Jupiter.]

1. The chief divinity of the ancient Romans; Jupiter.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The planet Jupiter. [R.] Pope.

3. (Alchemy)

Defn: The metal tin. Bird of Jove, the eagle.

JOVIAL
Jo"vi*al, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. Jovialis pertaining to Jove. The
planet Jupiter was thought to make those born under it joyful or
jovial. See Jove.]

1. Of or pertaining to the god, or the planet, Jupiter. [Obs.]
Our jovial star reigned at his birth. Shak.
The fixed stars astrologically differenced by the planets, and
esteemed Martial or Jovial according to the colors whereby they
answer these planets. Sir T. Browne.

2. Sunny; serene. [Obs.] "The heavens always joviall." Spenser.

3. Gay; merry; joyous; jolly; mirth-inspiring; hilarious;
characterized by mirth or jollity; as, a jovial youth; a jovial
company; a jovial poem.
Be bright and jovial among your guests. Shak.
His odes are some of them panegyrical, others moral; the rest are
jovial or bacchanalian. Dryden.

Note: This word is a relic of the belief in planetary influence.
Other examples are saturnine, mercurial, martial, lunatic, etc.

Syn.
 -- Merry; joyous; gay; festive; mirthful; gleeful; jolly; hilarious.

JOVIALIST
Jo"vi*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who lives a jovial life. Bp. Hall.

JOVIALITY
Jo`vi*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. jovialité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being jovial. Sir T. Herbert.

JOVIALLY
Jo"vi*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a jovial manner; merrily; gayly. B. Jonson.

JOVIALNESS
Jo"vi*al*ness, n.

Defn: Noisy mirth; joviality. Hewyt.

JOVIALTY
Jo"vi*al*ty, n.

Defn: Joviality. [R.] Barrow.

JOVIAN
Jo"vi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Jove, or Jupiter (either the deity or the
planet).

JOVICENTRIC
Jo`vi*cen"tric, a. Etym: [See Jove, and Center.] (Astron.)

Defn: Revolving around the planet Jupiter; appearing as viewed from
Jupiter. [R.] J. R. Hind.

JOVINIANIST
Jo*vin"ian*ist, n. (Script. Hist.)

Defn: An adherent to the doctrines of Jovinian, a monk of the fourth
century, who denied the virginity of Mary, and opposed the asceticism
of his time.

JOWL
Jowl, n. Etym: [For older chole, chaul, AS. ceaft jaw. Cf. Chaps.]

Defn: The cheek; the jaw. [Written also jole, choule, chowle, and
geoule.] Cheek by jowl, with the cheeks close together; side by side;
in close proximity. "I will go with three cheek by jole." Shak. "
Sits cheek by jowl." Dryden.

JOWL
Jowl, v. t.

Defn: To throw, dash, or knock. [Obs.]
How the knave jowls it to the ground. Shak.

JOWLER
Jowl"er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A dog with large jowls, as the beagle.

JOWTER
Jow"ter, n.

Defn: A mounted peddler of fish; -- called also jouster. [Obs.]
Carew.

JOY
Joy, n. Etym: [OE. joye, OF. joye, joie, goie, F. joie, L. gaudia,
pl. of gaudium joy, fr. gaudere to rejoice, to be glad; cf. Gr. Gaud,
Jewel.]

1. The passion or emotion excited by the acquisition or expectation
of good; pleasurable feelings or emotions caused by success, good
fortune, and the like, or by a rational prospect of possessing what
we love or desire; gladness; exhilaration of spirits; delight.
Her heavenly form beheld, all wished her joy. Dryden.
Glides the smooth current of domestic joy. Johnson.
Who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross,
despising the shame. Heb. xii. 2.
Tears of true joy for his return. Shak.
Joy is a delight of the mind, from the consideration of the present
or assured approaching possession of a good. Locke.

2. That which causes joy or happiness.
For ye are our glory and joy. 1 Thess. ii. 20.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever. Keats.

3. The sign or exhibition of joy; gayety; mirth; merriment;
festivity.
Such joy made Una, when her knight she found. Spenser.
The roofs with joy resound. Dryden.

Note: Joy is used in composition, esp. with participles, to from many
self-explaining compounds; as, joy-hells, joy-ringing, joy-inspiring,
joy-resounding, etc.

Syn.
 -- Gladness; pleasure; delight; happiness; exultation; transport;
felicity; ecstasy; rapture; bliss; gayety; mirth; merriment;
festivity; hilarity.

JOY
Joy, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Joyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Joying.] Etym: [OF.
joir, F. jouir. See Joy, n.]

Defn: To rejoice; to be glad; to delight; to exult.
I will joy in the God of my salvation. Hab. iii. 18.
In whose sight all things joy. Milton.

JOY
Joy, v. t.

1. To give joy to; to congratulate. [Obs.] "Joy us of our conquest."
Dryden.
To joy the friend, or grapple with the foe. Prior.

2. To gladden; to make joyful; to exhilarate. [Obs.]
Neither pleasure's art can joy my spirits. Shak.

3. To enjoy. [Obs.] See Enjoy.
Who might have lived and joyed immortal bliss. Milton.

JOYANCE
Joy"ance, n. Etym: [OF. joiance.]

Defn: Enjoyment; gayety; festivity; joyfulness. Spenser.
Some days of joyance are decreed to all. Byron.
From what hid fountains doth thy joyance flow Trench.

JOYANCY
Joy"an*cy, n.

Defn: Joyance. [R.] Carlyle.

JOYFUL
Joy"ful, a.

Defn: Full of joy; having or causing joy; very glad; as, a joyful
heart. "Joyful tidings." Shak.
My soul shall be joyful in my God. Is. lxi. 10.
Sad for their loss, but joyful of our life. Pope.
-- Joy"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Joy"ful*ness, n.

JOYLESS
Joy"less, a.

Defn: Not having joy; not causing joy; unenjoyable.
 -- Joy"less*ly, adv.
 -- Joy"less*ness, n.
With downcast eyes the joyless victor sat. Dryden.
Youth and health and war are joyless to him. Addison.
[He] pining for the lass, Is joyless of the grove, and spurns the
growing grass. Dryden.

JOYOUS
Joy"ous, a. Etym: [OE. joyous, joious, joios, F. joyeux.See Joy.]

Defn: Glad; gay; merry; joyful; also, affording or inspiring joy;
with of before the word or words expressing the cause of joy.
Is this your joyous city Is. xxiii. 7.
They all as glad as birds of joyous prime. Spenser.
And joyous of our conquest early won. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Merry; lively; blithe; gleeful; gay; glad; mirthful; sportive;
festive; joyful; happy; blissful; charming; delightful.
 -- Joy"ous*ly, adv.
 -- Joy"ous*ness, n.

JOYSOME
Joy"some (, a.

Defn: Causing joyfulness. [R.]
This all joysome grove. T. Browne.

JUB
Jub, n. Etym: [Perh. corrupted fr. jug.]

Defn: A vessel for holding ale or wine; a jug. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JUBA
Ju"ba, n.; pl. Jubæ (-be). Etym: [L., a mane.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The mane of an animal.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A loose panicle, the axis of which falls to pieces, as in
certain grasses.

JUBATE
Ju"bate, a. Etym: [L. jubatus having a mane.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Fringed with long, pendent hair.

JUBBAH; JUBBEH; JOOBBEH
Jub"bah, n. Also Jub"beh, Joob"beh. [Hind. jubba, fr. Ar. jubbah.]

Defn: A long outer garment worn by both sexes of Mohammedans of the
better class.

JUBE
Ju`bé", n. Etym: [F.] (Arch.)
(a) chancel screen or rood screen.
(b) gallery above such a screen, from which certain parts of the
service were formerly read. See Rood loft, under Rood.

JUBILANT
Ju"bi*lant, a. Etym: [L. jubilans, -antis, p. pr. of jubilare to
shout for joy: cf. F. jubila. See Jubilate.]

Defn: Uttering songs of triumph; shouting with joy; triumphant;
exulting. "The jubilant age." Coleridge.
While the bright pomp ascended jubilant. Milton.

JUBILANTLY
Ju"bi*lant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a jubilant manner.

JUBILAR
Ju"bi*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. jubilaire.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or having the character of, a jubilee. [R.] Bp.
Hall.

JUBILATE
Ju`bi*la"te, n. Etym: [L., imperat. of jubilare to shout for joy.]

1. The third Sunday after Easter; -- so called because the introit is
the 66th Psalm, which, in the Latin version, begins with the words,
"Jubilate Deo."

2. A name of the 100th Psalm; -- so called from its opening word in
the Latin version.

JUBILATE
Ju"bi*late, v. i. Etym: [L. jubilatus, p. p. of jubilare.]

Defn: To exult; to rejoice. [R.] De Quincey.

JUBILATION
Ju`bi*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. jubilatio: cf. F. jubilation.]

Defn: A triumphant shouting; rejoicing; exultation. "Jubilations and
hallelujahs." South.

JUBILEE
Ju"bi*lee, n. Etym: [F. jubilé, L. jubilaeus, Gr. y the blast of a
trumpet, also the grand sabbatical year, which was announced by sound
of trumpet.]

1. (Jewish Hist.)

Defn: Every fiftieth year, being the year following the completion of
each seventh sabbath of years, at which time all the slaves of Hebrew
blood were liberated, and all lands which had been alienated during
the whole period reverted to their former owners. [In this sense
spelled also, in some English Bibles, jubile.] Lev. xxv. 8-17.

2. The joyful commemoration held on the fiftieth anniversary of any
event; as, the jubilee of Queen Victoria's reign; the jubilee of the
American Board of Missions.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A church solemnity or ceremony celebrated at Rome, at stated
intervals, originally of one hundred years, but latterly of twenty-
five; a plenary and extraordinary indulgence grated by the sovereign
pontiff to the universal church. One invariable condition of granting
this indulgence is the confession of sins and receiving of the
eucharist.

4. A season of general joy.
The town was all a jubilee of feasts. Dryden.

5. A state of joy or exultation. [R.] "In the jubilee of his
spirits." Sir W. Scott.

JUCUNDITY
Ju*cun"di*ty, n. Etym: [L. jucunditas, from jucundus.]

Defn: Pleasantness; agreeableness. See Jocundity. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

JUDAHITE
Ju"dah*ite, n.

Defn: One of the tribe of Judah; a member of the kingdom of Judah; a
Jew. Kitto.

JUDAIC; JUDAICAL
Ju*da"ic, Ju*da"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Judaïcus, fr. Judaea, the country
Judea: cf. F. Judaïque. See Jew.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Jews. "The natural or Judaical
[religion]." South.

JUDAICALLY
Ju*da"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: After the Jewish manner. Milton.

JUDAISM
Ju"da*ism, n. Etym: [L. Judaïsmus: cf. F. judaïsme.]

1. The religious doctrines and rites of the Jews as enjoined in the
laws of Moses. J. S. Mill.

2. Conformity to the Jewish rites and ceremonies.

JUDAIST
Ju"da*ist, n.

Defn: One who believes and practices Judaism.

JUDAISTIC
Ju`da*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Judaism.

JUDAIZATION
Ju`da*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of Judaizing; a conforming to the Jewish religion or
ritual. [R.]

JUDAIZE
Ju"da*ize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Judaized; p. pr. & vb. n. Judaizing.]
Etym: [Cf. F. judaïser.]

Defn: To conform to the doctrines, observances, or methods of the
Jews; to inculcate or impose Judaism.
They . . . prevailed on the Galatians to Judaize so far as to observe
the rites of Moses in various instances. They were Judaizing doctors,
who taught the observation of the Mosaic law. Bp. Bull.

JUDAIZE
Ju"da*ize, v. t.

Defn: To impose Jewish observances or rites upon; to convert to
Judaism.
The heretical Theodotion, the Judaized Symmachus. Milton.

JUDAIZER
Ju"da*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who conforms to or inculcates Judaism; specifically, pl.
(Ch. Hist.), those Jews who accepted Christianity but still adhered
to the law of Moses and worshiped in the temple at Jerusalem.

JUDAIZERS
Ju"da*iz`ers (ju"day*iz`erz), n. pl.

Defn: See Raskolnik.

JUDAS
Ju"das, n.

Defn: The disciple who betrayed Christ. Hence: A treacherous person;
one who betrays under the semblance of friendship.
 -- a.

Defn: Treacherous; betraying. Judas hole, a peephole or secret
opening for spying.
 -- Judas kiss, a deceitful and treacherous kiss.
 -- Judas tree (Bot.), a leguminous tree of the genus Cercis, with
pretty, rose-colored flowers in clusters along the branches. Judas is
said to have hanged himself on a tree of this genus (C.
Siliquastrum). C. Canadensis and C. occidentalis are the American
species, and are called also redbud.

JUDAS-COLORED
Ju"das-col`ored, a.

Defn: Red; -- from a tradition that Judas Iscariot had red hair and
beard.
There's treachery in that Judas-colored beard. Dryden.

JUDDOCK
Jud"dock, n. Etym: [For judcock; jud (equiv. to Prov. E. gid a
jacksnipe, W. giach snipe) + cock.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Jacksnipe.

JUDEAN
Ju*de"an, a. Etym: [L. Judaeus. See Jew.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Judea.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Judea; a Jew.

JUDGE
Judge, n. Etym: [OE. juge, OF. & F. juge, fr. OF. jugier, F. juger,
to judge. See Judge, v. i.]

1. (Law)

Defn: A public officer who is invested with authority to hear and
determine litigated causes, and to administer justice between parties
in courts held for that purpose.
The parts of a judge in hearing are four: to direct the evidence; to
moderate length, repetition, or impertinency of speech; to
recapitulate, select, and collate the material points of that which
hath been said; and to give the rule or sentence. Bacon.

2. One who has skill, knowledge, or experience, sufficient to decide
on the merits of a question, or on the quality or value of anything;
one who discerns properties or relations with skill and readiness; a
connoisseur; an expert; a critic.
A man who is no judge of law may be a good judge of poetry, or
eloquence, or of the merits of a painting. Dryden.

3. A person appointed to decide in aas, a judge in a horse race.

4. (Jewish Hist.)

Defn: One of supreme magistrates, with both civil and military
powers, who governed Israel for more than four hundred years.

5. pl.

Defn: The title of the seventh book of the Old Testament; the Book of
Judges. Judge Advocate (Mil. & Nav.), a person appointed to act as
prosecutor at a court-martial; he acts as the representative of the
government, as the responsible adviser of the court, and also, to a
certain extent, as counsel for the accused, when he has no other
counsel.
 -- Judge-Advocate General, in the United States, the title of two
officers, one attached to the War Department and having the rank of
brigadier general, the other attached to the Navy Department and
having the rank of colonel of marines or captain in the navy. The
first is chief of the Bureau of Military Justice of the army, the
other performs a similar duty for the navy. In England, the
designation of a member of the ministry who is the legal adviser of
the secretary of state for war, and supreme judge of the proceedings
of courts-martial.

Syn.
 -- Judge, Umpire, Arbitrator, Referee. A judge, in the legal sense,
is a magistrate appointed to determine questions of law. An umpire is
a person selected to decide between two or more who contend for a
prize. An arbitrator is one chosen to allot to two contestants their
portion of a claim, usually on grounds of equity and common sense. A
referee is one to whom a case is referred for final adjustment.
Arbitrations and references are sometimes voluntary, sometimes
appointed by a court.

JUDGE
Judge, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Judged; p. pr. & vb. n. Judging.] Etym:
[OE. jugen, OF. jugier, F. juger, L. judicare, fr. judex judge; jus
law or right + dicare to proclaim, pronounce, akin to dicere to say.
See Just, a., and Diction, and cf. Judicial.]

1. To hear and determine, as in causes on trial; to decide as a
judge; to give judgment; to pass sentence.
The Lord judge between thee and me. Gen. xvi. 5.
Father, who art judge Of all things made, and judgest only right!
Milton.

2. To assume the right to pass judgment on another; to sit in
judgment or commendation; to criticise or pass adverse judgment upon
others. See Judge, v. t., 3.
Forbear to judge, for we are sinners all. Shak.

3. To compare facts or ideas, and perceive their relations and
attributes, and thus distinguish truth from falsehood; to determine;
to discern; to distinguish; to form an opinion about.
Judge not according to the appearance. John vii. 24.
She is wise if I can judge of her. Shak.

JUDGE
Judge, v. t.

1. To hear and determine by authority, as a case before a court, or a
controversy between two parties. "Chaos [shall] judge the strife."
Milton.

2. To examine and pass sentence on; to try; to doom.
God shall judge the righteous and the wicked. Eccl. iii. 7.
To bring my whole cause 'fore his holiness, And to be judged by him.
Shak.

3. To arrogate judicial authority over; to sit in judgment upon; to
be censorious toward.
Judge not, that ye be not judged. Matt. vii. 1.

4. To determine upon or deliberation; to esteem; to think; to reckon.
If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord. Acts xvi. 15.

5. To exercise the functions of a magistrate over; to govern. [Obs.]
Make us a king to judge us. 1 Sam. viii. 5.

JUDGE-MADE
Judge"-made`, a.

Defn: Created by judges or judicial decision; -- applied esp. to law
applied or established by the judicial interpretation of statutes so
as extend or restrict their scope, as to meet new cases, to provide
new or better remedies, etc., and often used opprobriously of acts of
judicial interpretation considered as doing this.

The law of the 13th century was judge-made law in a fuller and more
literal sense than the law of any succeeding century has been.
Sir Frederick Pollock.

JUDGER
Judg"er, n.

Defn: One who judges. Sir K. Digby.

JUDGESHIP
Judge"ship, n.

Defn: The office of a judge.

JUDGMENT
Judg"ment, n. Etym: [OE. jugement, F. jugement, LL. judicamentum, fr.
L. judicare. See Judge, v. i.]

1. The act of judging; the operation of the mind, involving
comparison and discrimination, by which a knowledge of the values and
relations of thins, whether of moral qualities, intellectual
concepts, logical propositions, or material facts, is obtained; as,
by careful judgment he avoided the peril; by a series of wrong
judgments he forfeited confidence.
I oughte deme, of skilful jugement, That in the salte sea my wife is
deed. Chaucer.

2. The power or faculty of performing such operations (see 1); esp.,
when unqualified, the faculty of judging or deciding rightly, justly,
or wisely; good sense; as, a man of judgment; a politician without
judgment.
He shall judge thy people with righteousness and thy poor with
judgment. Ps. lxxii. 2.
Hernia. I would my father look'd but with my eyes. Theseus. Rather
your eyes must with his judgment look. Shak.

3. The conclusion or result of judging; an opinion; a decision.
She in my judgment was as fair as you. Shak.
Who first his judgment asked, and then a place. Pope.

4. The act of determining, as in courts of law, what is conformable
to law and justice; also, the determination, decision, or sentence of
a court, or of a judge; the mandate or sentence of God as the judge
of all.
In judgments between rich and poor, consider not what the poor man
needs, but what is his own. Jer. Taylor.
Most heartily I do beseech the court To give the judgment. Shak.

5. (Philos.)
(a) That act of the mind by which two notions or ideas which are
apprehended as distinct are compared for the purpose of ascertaining
their agreement or disagreement. See 1. The comparison may be
threefold: (1) Of individual objects forming a concept. (2) Of
concepts giving what is technically called a judgment. (3) Of two
judgments giving an inference. Judgments have been further classed as
analytic, synthetic, and identical.
(b) That power or faculty by which knowledge dependent upon
comparison and discrimination is acquired. See 2.
A judgment is the mental act by which one thing is affirmed or denied
of another. Sir W. Hamilton.
The power by which we are enabled to perceive what is true or false,
probable or improbable, is called by logicians the faculty of
judgment. Stewart.

6. A calamity regarded as sent by God, by way of recompense for wrong
committed; a providential punishment. "Judgments are prepared for
scorners." Prov. xix. 29. "This judgment of the heavens that makes us
tremble." Shak.

7. (Theol.)

Defn: The final award; the last sentence.

Note: Judgment, abridgment, acknowledgment, and lodgment are in
England sometimes written, judgement, abridgement, acknowledgement,
and lodgement.

Note: Judgment is used adjectively in many self-explaining
combinations; as, judgment hour; judgment throne. Judgment day
(Theol.), the last day, or period when final judgment will be
pronounced on the subjects of God's moral government.
 -- Judgment debt (Law), a debt secured to the creditor by a judge's
order.
 -- Judgment hall, a hall where courts are held.
 -- Judgment seat, the seat or bench on which judges sit in court;
hence, a court; a tribunal. "We shall all stand before the judgment
seat of Christ." Rom. xiv. 10.
 -- Judgment summons (Law), a proceeding by a judgment creditor
against a judgment debtor upon an unsatisfied judgment. Arrest of
judgment. (Law) See under Arrest, n.
 -- Judgment of God, a term formerly applied to extraordinary trials
of secret crimes, as by arms and single combat, by ordeal, etc.; it
being imagined that God would work miracles to vindicate innocence.
See under Ordeal.

Syn.
 -- Discernment; decision; determination; award; estimate; criticism;
taste; discrimination; penetration; sagacity; intelligence;
understanding. See Taste.

JUDICABLE
Ju"di*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. judicabilis. See Judge, v. i.]

Defn: Capable of being judged; capable of being tried or decided
upon. Jer. Taylor.

JUDICATIVE
Ju"di*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Having power to judge; judicial; as, the judicative faculty.
Hammond.

JUDICATORY
Ju"di*ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. judicatorius.]

Defn: Pertaining to the administration of justice; dispensing
justice; judicial; as, judicatory tribunals. T. Wharton.
Power to reject in an authoritative or judicatory way. Bp. Hall.

JUDICATORY
Ju"di*ca*to*ry (277), n. Etym: [L. judicatorium.]

1. A court of justice; a tribunal. Milton.

2. Administration of justice.
The supreme court of judicatory. Clarendon.

JUDICATURE
Ju"di*ca*ture, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. judicatura.]

1. The state or profession of those employed in the administration of
justice; also, the dispensing or administration of justice.
The honor of the judges in their judicature is the king's honor.
Bacon.

2. A court of justice; a judicatory. South.

3. The right of judicial action; jurisdiction; extent jurisdiction of
a judge or court.
Our Savior disputes not here the judicature, for that was not his
office, but the morality, of divorce. Milton.

JUDICIAL
Ju*di"cial, a. Etym: [L. judicialis, fr. judicium judgment, fr. judex
judge: cf. OF. judicial. See Judge.]

1. Pertaining or appropriate to courts of justice, or to a judge;
practiced or conformed to in the administration of justice;
sanctioned or ordered by a court; as, judicial power; judicial
proceedings; a judicial sale. "Judicial massacres." Macaulay.
Not a moral but a judicial law, and so was abrogated. Milton.

2. Fitted or apt for judging or deciding; as, a judicial mind.

3. Belonging to the judiciary, as distinguished from legislative,
administrative, or executive. See Executive.

4. Judicious. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

JUDICIALLY
Ju*di"cial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a judicial capacity or judicial manner. "The Lords . . .
sitting judicially." Macaulay.

JUDICIARY
Ju*di"cia*ry, a. Etym: [L. judiciarius, fr. judicium judgment: cf. F.
judiciare. See Judicial.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to courts of judicature, or legal tribunals;
judicial; as, a judiciary proceeding. Bp. Burnet.

JUDICIARY
Ju*di"cia*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. judiciaria, F. judiciaire.]

Defn: That branch of government in which judicial power is vested;
the system of courts of justice in a country; the judges, taken
collectively; as, an independent judiciary; the senate committee on
the judiciary.

JUDICIOUS
Ju*di"cious, a. Etym: [F. judicieux, fr. L. judicium judgment. See
Judicial.]

Defn: Of or relating to a court; judicial. [Obs.]
His last offenses to us Shall have judicious hearing. Shak.

2. Directed or governed by sound judgment; having sound judgment;
wise; prudent; sagacious; discreet.
He is noble, wise, judicious, and best knows The fits o' the season.
Shak.

Syn.
 -- Prudent; discreet; rational; wise; skillful; discerning;
sagacious; well-advised.

JUDICIOUSLY
Ju*di"cious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a judicious manner; with good judgment; wisely.

JUDICIOUSNESS
Ju*di"cious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being judicious; sagacity; s

JUG
Jug, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. Jug, a corruption of, or nickname for,
Joanna; cf. 2d Jack, and Jill. See Johannes.]

1. A vessel, usually of coarse earthenware, with a swelling belly and
narrow mouth, and having a handle on one side.

2. A pitcher; a ewer. [Eng.]

3. A prison; a jail; a lockup. [Slang] Gay.

JUG
Jug, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jugged; p. pr. & vb. n. Jugging.]

1. To seethe or stew, as in a jug or jar placed in boiling water; as,
to jug a hare.

2. To commit to jail; to imprison. [Slang]

JUG
Jug, v. i. (Zoöl.)

1. To utter a sound resembling this word, as certain birds do,
especially the nightingale.

2. To nestle or collect together in a covey; -- said of quails and
partridges.

JUGAL
Ju"gal, a. Etym: [L. jugalis, fr. jugum yoke.]

1. Relating to a yoke, or to marriage. [Obs.]

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or in the region of, the malar, or cheek bone.

JUGATA
Ju*ga"ta, n. pl. Etym: [Neut. pl. of L. jugatus, p. p. of jugare to
join.] (Numis.)

Defn: The figures of two heads on a medal or coin, either side by
side or joined.

JUGATED
Ju"ga*ted, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Coupled together.

JUGE
Juge, n.

Defn: A judge. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JUGEMENT
Jug"e*ment, n.

Defn: Judgment. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JUGER
Ju"ger, n. Etym: [L. jugerum.]

Defn: A Roman measure of land, measuring 28,800 square feet, or 240
feet in length by 120 in breadth.

JUGGER
Jug"ger, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An East Indian falcon. See Lugger.

JUGGERNAUT
Jug"ger*naut`, n. Etym: [Skr. jagannatha lord of the world.]

Defn: One of the names under which Vishnu, in his incarnation as
Krishna, is worshiped by the Hindoos. [Written also Juggernnath,
Jaganath, Jaganatha, etc.]

Note: The principal seat of the worship of Juggernaut is at Pûri in
Orissa. At certain times the idol is drawn from the temple by the
multitude, on a high car with sixteen wheels. Formerly, fanatics
sometimes threw themselves under the wheels to be crushed as a
sacrifice to the god.

JUGGLE
Jug"gle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Juggled; p. pr. & vb. n. Juggling.]
Etym: [OE. juglen; cf. OF. jogler, jugler, F. jongler. See Juggler.]

1. To play tricks by sleight of hand; to cause amusement and sport by
tricks of skill; to conjure.

2. To practice artifice or imposture.
Be these juggling fiends no more believed. Shak.

JUGGLE
Jug"gle, v. t.

Defn: To deceive by trick or artifice.
Is't possible the spells of France should juggle Men into such
strange mysteries Shak.

JUGGLE
Jug"gle, n.

1. A trick by sleight of hand.

2. An imposture; a deception. Tennyson.
A juggle of state to cozen the people. Tillotson.

3. A block of timber cut to a length, either in the round or split.
Knight.

JUGGLER
Jug"gler, n. Etym: [OE. jogelour, juglur, OF. jogleor, jugleor,
jongleor, F. jongleur, fr. L. joculator a jester, joker, fr. joculus
a little jest or joke, dim. of jocus jest, joke. See Joke, and cf.
Jongleur, Joculator.]

1. One who practices or exhibits tricks by sleight of hand; one
skilled in legerdemain; a conjurer.
As nimble jugglers that deceive the eye. Shak.
Jugglers and impostors do daily delude them. Sir T. Browne.

2. A deceiver; a cheat. Shak.

JUGGLERESS
Jug"gler*ess, n.

1. A female juggler. T. Warton.

JUGGLERY
Jug"gler*y, n. Etym: [OE. & OF. joglerie, F. jonglerie.]

1. The art or act of a juggler; sleight of hand.

2. Trickery; imposture; as, political jugglery.

JUGGLING
Jug"gling, a.

Defn: Cheating; tricky.
 -- Jug"gling*ly, adv.

JUGGLING
Jug"gling, n.

Defn: Jugglery; underhand practice.

JUGGS
Juggs, n. pl.

Defn: See Jougs. [Scot.]

JUGLANDIN
Jug"lan*din, n. Etym: [L. juglans, -andis, a walnut: cf. F.
juglandine.] (Chem.)

Defn: An extractive matter contained in the juice of the green shucks
of the walnut (Juglans regia). It is used medicinally as an
alterative, and also as a black hair dye.

JUGLANDINE
Jug"lan*dine, n.

Defn: An alkaloid found in the leaves of the walnut (Juglans regia).

JUGLANS
Jug"lans, n. Etym: [L., walnut.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of valuable trees, including the true walnut of Europe,
and the America black walnut, and butternut.

JUGLONE
Ju"glone, n. Etym: [L. juglans the walnut + -one.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow crystalline substance resembling quinone, extracted
from green shucks of the walnut (Juglans regia); -- called also
nucin.

JUGULAR
Ju"gu*lar, a. Etym: [L. jugulum the collar bone, which joins together
the shoulders and the breast, the throat, akin to jungere to yoke, to
join: cf. F. jugulaire. See Join.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) Of or pertaining to the throat or neck; as, the jugular vein.
(b) Of or pertaining to the jugular vein; as, the jugular foramen.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the ventral fins beneath the throat; -- said of certain
fishes.

JUGULAR
Ju"gu*lar, n. Etym: [Cf. F. jugulaire. See Jugular, a.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the large veins which return the blood from the head to
the heart through two chief trunks, an external and an internal, on
each side of the neck; -- called also the jugular vein.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any fish which has the ventral fins situated forward of the
pectoral fins, or beneath the throat; one of a division of fishes
(Jugulares).

JUGULATE
Ju"gu*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jugulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Jugulating.] Etym: [L. jugulatus, p. p. of jugulare, fr. jugulatum.
See Jugular.]

Defn: To cut the throat of. [R.] Jacob Bigelow.

JUGULUM
Ju"gu*lum, n.; pl. Jugula. Etym: [L.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lower throat, or that part of the neck just above the
breast.

JUGUM
Ju"gum, n.; pl. L. Juga, E. Jugums. Etym: [L., a yoke, ridge.] (Bot.)
(a) One of the ridges commonly found on the fruit of umbelliferous
plants.
(b) A pair of the opposite leaflets of a pinnate plant.

JUICE
Juice, n. Etym: [OE. juse, F.jus broth, gravy, juice, L. jus; akin to
Skr. y.]

Defn: The characteristic fluid of any vegetable or animal substance;
the sap or part which can be expressed from fruit, etc.; the fluid
part which separates from meat in cooking.
An animal whose juices are unsound. Arbuthnot.
The juice of July flowers. B. Jonson.
The juice of Egypt's grape. Shak.
Letters which Edward Digby wrote in lemon juice. Macaulay.
Cold water draws the juice of meat. Mrs. Whitney.

JUICE
Juice, v. t.

Defn: To moisten; to wet. [Obs.] Fuller.

JUICELESS
Juice"less, a.

Defn: Lacking juice; dry. Dr. H. More.

JUICINESS
Jui"ci*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being juicy; succulence plants.

JUICY
Jui"cy, a. [Compar. Juicier; superl. Juiciest.]

Defn: A bounding with juice; succulent. Bacon.

JUISE
Ju*ise", n. Etym: [OF. juise. L. judicium. See Judicial.]

Defn: Judgment; justice; sentence. [Obs.]
Up [on] pain of hanging and high juise. Chaucer.

JUJUBE
Ju"jube, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. zizyphum, Gr. zizf, zizaf, zayzaf.]

Defn: The sweet and edible drupes (fruits) of several Mediterranean
and African species small trees, of the genus Zizyphus, especially
the Z. jujuba, Z. vulgaris, Z. mucronata, and Z. Lotus. The last
named is thought to have furnished the lotus of the ancient Libyan
Lotophagi, or lotus eaters. Jujube paste, the dried or inspissated
jelly of the jujube; also, a confection made of gum arabic sweetened.

JUJUTSU; JUJITSU; JIUJUTSU; JIUJITSU
Ju"jut`su, n. Also Ju"jit`su, Jiu"jut`su, Jiu"jit`su. [Jap. jujutsu;
ju soft (prob. because no weapons are used) + jutsu art.]

Defn: The Japanese art of self-defense without weapons, now widely
used as a system of physical training. It depends for its efficiency
largely upon the principle of making use of an opponent's strength
and weight to disable or injure him, and by applying pressure so that
his opposing movement will throw him out of balance, dislocate or
break a joint, etc.  It opposes knowledge and skill to brute
strength, and demands an extensive practical knowledge of human
anatomy.

JUKE
Juke, v. i. Etym: [from Scottish jouk to bow.]

Defn: To bend the neck; to bow or duck the head. [Written also jook
and jouk.]
The money merchant was so proud of his trust that he went juking and
tossing of his head. L' Estrange.

JUKE
Juke, n.

Defn: The neck of a bird. [Prov. Eng.]

JUKE
Juke, v. i. Etym: [F. juc a roost, perch, jucher to roost, to perch.]

Defn: To perch on anything, as birds do. [Obs.]

JUKES, THE
Jukes, The

Defn: A pseudonym used to designate the descendants of two sisters,
the "Jukes" sisters, whose husbands were sons of a backwoodsman of
Dutch descent. They lived in the State of New York, and their history
was investigated by R. L. Dugdale as an example of the inheritance of
criminal and immoral tendencies, disease, and pauperism. Sixty per
cent of those traced showed, degeneracy, and they are estimated to
have cost society $1,308,000 in 75 years.

JULACEOUS
Ju*la"ceous, a. Etym: [See Julus.] (Bot.)

Defn: Like an ament, or bearing aments; amentaceous.

JULEP
Ju"lep, n. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. julepe, fr. Ar. & Per. julab, jullab,
fr. Per. gulab rose water and julep; gul rose + ab water.]

1. A refreshing drink flavored with aromatic herbs; esp. (Med.),

Defn: a sweet, demulcent, acidulous, or mucilaginous mixture, used as
a vehicle. Milton.
Honey in woods, juleps in brooks. H. Vaughan.

2. A beverage composed of brandy, whisky, or some other spirituous
liquor, with sugar, pounded ice, and sprigs of mint; -- called also
mint julep. [U.S.]

JULIAN
Jul"ian a. Etym: [L. Julianus, fr. Julius. Cf. July, Gillian.]

Defn: Relating to, or derived from, Julius Cæsar. Julian calendar,
the calendar as adjusted by Julius Cæsar, in which the year was made
to consist of 365 days, each fourth year having 366 days.
 -- Julian epoch, the epoch of the commencement of the Julian
calendar, or 46 b. c.
 -- Julian period, a chronological period of 7,980 years, combining
the solar, lunar, and indiction cycles (28 x 19 x 15 = 7,980), being
reckoned from the year 4713 B. C., when the first years of these
several cycles would coincide, so that if any year of the period be
divided by 28, 19, or 15, the remainder will be the year of the
corresponding cycle. The Julian period was proposed by Scaliger, to
remove or avoid ambiguities in chronological dates, and was so named
because composed of Julian years.
 -- Julian year, the year of 365 days, 6 hours, adopted in the Julian
calendar, and in use until superseded by the Gregorian year, as
established in the reformed or Gregorian calendar.

JULIENNE
Ju`li*enne", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A kind of soup containing thin slices or shreds of carrots,
onions, etc.

JULIFORM
Ju"li*form, a. Etym: [Julus + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the shape or appearance of a julus or catkin.

JULUS
Ju"lus, n.; pl.Juli. Etym: [Of the same origin as iulus.] (Bot.)

Defn: A catkin or ament. See Ament.

JULY
Ju*ly", n.; pl. Julies. Etym: [L.Julius; -- named from Caius Julius
Cæsar, who was born in this month: cf. F. Juillet.]

Defn: The seventh month of the year, containing thirty-one days.

Note: This month was called Quintilis, or the fifth month, according
to the old Roman calendar, in which March was the first month of the
year.

JULY-FLOWER
Ju*ly"-flow`er, n.

Defn: See Gillyflower.

JUMART
Ju"mart, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The fabled offspring of a bull and a mare. Locke.

JUMBLE
Jum"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jumbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Jumbling.]
Etym: [Prob. fr. jump, i. e., to make to jump, or shake.]

Defn: To mix in a confused mass; to put or throw together without
order; -- often followed by together or up.
Why dost thou blend and jumble such inconsistencies together Burton.
Every clime and age Jumbled together. Tennyson.

JUMBLE
Jum"ble, v. i.

Defn: To meet or unite in a confused way; to mix confusedly. Swift.

JUMBLE
Jum"ble, n.

1. A confused mixture; a mass or collection without order; as, a
jumble of words.

2. A small, thin, sugared cake, usually ring-shaped.

JUMBLEMENT
Jum"ble*ment, n.

Defn: Confused mixture. [Low]

JUMBLER
Jum"bler, n.

Defn: One who confuses things.

JUMBLINGLY
Jum"bling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a confused manner.

JUMELLE
Ju`melle", a. [F., fem. of jumeau, fr. L. gemellus. Cf. Gemel, a.]

Defn: Twin; paired; -- said of various objects made or formed in
pairs, as a binocular opera glass, a pair of gimmal rings, etc.

JUMELLE
Ju`melle", n.

Defn: A jumelle opera glass, or the like.

JUMENT
Ju"ment, n. Etym: [L. jumentum a beast of burden: cf. F. jument a
mare, OF., a beast of burden.]

Defn: A beast; especially, a beast of burden. [Obs.]
Fitter for juments than men to feed on. Burton.

JUMP
Jump, n. Etym: [Cf. F. jupe a long petticoat, a skirt. Cf. Juppon.]
(a) A kind of loose jacket for men. (b) pl.

Defn: A bodice worn instead of stays by women in the 18th century.

JUMP
Jump, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jumped; p. pr. & vb. n. Jumping.] Etym:
[Akin to OD. gumpen, dial. G. gumpen, jumpen.]

1. To spring free from the ground by the muscular action of the feet
and legs; to project one's self through the air; to spring; to bound;
to leap.
Not the worst of the three but jumps twelve foot and a half by the
square. Shak.

2. To move as if by jumping; to bounce; to jolt. "The jumping
chariots." Nahum iii. 2.
A flock of geese jump down together. Dryden.

3. To coincide; to agree; to accord; to tally; -- followed by with.
"It jumps with my humor." Shak. To jump at, to spring to; hence,
fig., to accept suddenly or eagerly; as, a fish jumps at a bait; to
jump at a chance.

JUMP
Jump, v. t.

1. To pass by a spring or leap; to overleap; as, to jump a stream.

2. To cause to jump; as, he jumped his horse across the ditch.

3. To expose to danger; to risk; to hazard. [Obs.]
To jump a body with a dangerous physic. Shak.

4. (Smithwork)
(a) To join by a butt weld.
(b) To thicken or enlarge by endwise blows; to upset.

5. (Quarrying)

Defn: To bore with a jumper. To jump a claim, to enter upon and take
possession of land to which another has acquired a claim by prior
entry and occupation. [Western U. S. & Australia] See Claim, n., 3.
 -- To jump one's bail, to abscond while at liberty under bail bonds.
[Slang, U. S.]

JUMP
Jump, n.

1. The act of jumping; a leap; a spring; a bound. "To advance by
jumps." Locke.

2. An effort; an attempt; a venture. [Obs.]
Our fortune lies Upon thisjump. Shak.

3. The space traversed by a leap.

4. (Mining)

Defn: A dislocation in a stratum; a fault.

5. (Arch.)

Defn: An abrupt interruption of level in a piece of brickwork or
masonry. From the jump, from the start or beginning. [Colloq.] --
Jump joint. (a) A butt joint. (b) A flush joint, as of plank in
carvel-built vessels.
 -- Jump seat. (a) A movable carriage seat. (b) A carriage
constructed with a seat which may be shifted so as to make room for
second or extra seat. Also used adjectively; as, a jump-seat wagon.

JUMP
Jump, a.

Defn: Nice; exact; matched; fitting; precise. [Obs.] "Jump names." B.
Jonson.

JUMP
Jump, adv.

Defn: Exactly; pat.[Obs.] Shak.

JUMPER
Jump"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, jumps.

2. A long drilling tool used by masons and quarrymen.

3. A rude kind of sleigh; -- usually, a simple box on runners which
are in one piece with the poles that form the thills. [U.S.] J. F.
Cooper.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larva of the cheese fly. See Cheese fly, under Cheese.

5. (Eccl.)

Defn: A name applied in the 18th century to certain Calvinistic
Methodists in Wales whose worship was characterized by violent
convulsions.

6. (Horology)

Defn: spring to impel the star wheel, also a pawl to lock fast a
wheel, in a repeating timepiece. Baby jumper. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Bounty jumper. See under Bounty.

JUMPER
Jump"er, n. Etym: [See 1st Jump.]

Defn: A loose upper garment; as:
(a) A sort of blouse worn by workmen over their ordinary dress to
protect it.
(b) A fur garment worn in Arctic journeys.

JUMPING
Jump"ing, p. a. & vb. n.

Defn: of Jump, to leap. Jumping bean, a seed of a Mexican Euphorbia,
containing the larva of a moth (Carpocapsa saltitans). The larva by
its sudden movements causes the seed to roll to roll and jump about.
 -- Jumping deer (Zoöl.), a South African rodent (Pedetes Caffer),
allied to the jerboa.
 -- Jumping jack, a toy figure of a man, jointed and made to jump or
dance by means of strings.
 -- Jumping louse (Zoöl.), any of the numerous species of plant lice
belonging to the family Psyllidæ, several of which are injurious to
fruit trees.
 -- Jumping mouse (Zoöl.), North American mouse (Zapus Hudsonius),
having a long tail and large hind legs. It is noted for its jumping
powers. Called also kangaroo mouse.
 -- Jumping mullet (Zoöl.), gray mullet.
 -- Jumping shrew (Zoöl.), any African insectivore of the genus
Macroscelides. They are allied to the shrews, but have large hind
legs adapted for jumping.
 -- Jumping spider (Zoöl.), spider of the genus Salticus and other
related genera; one of the Saltigradæ; -- so called because it leaps
upon its prey.

JUMPING DISEASE
Jump"ing dis*ease".

Defn: A convulsive tic similar to or identical with miryachit,
observed among the woodsmen of Maine.

JUMP SPARK
Jump spark.

Defn: A spark produced by the jumping of electricity across a
permanent gap.

JUMPWELD
Jump"weld`, v. t.

Defn: See Buttweld, v. t.

JUMPY
Jump"y, a. [Compar. Jumpier; superl. Jumpiest.]

Defn: Jumping, or inducing to jump; characterized by jumps; hence,
extremely nervous.

JUNCACEOUS
Jun*ca"ceous, a. Etym: [See Juncate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of. pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants
(Juncaceæ), of which the common rush (Juncus) is the type.

JUNCATE
Jun"cate, n.

Defn: See Junket.[Obs.] Spenser.

JUNCITE
Jun"cite, n. Etym: [L. juncus a rush.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil rush.

JUNCO
Jun"co, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the genus Junco, which includes several species of
North American finches; -- called also snowbird, or blue snowbird.

JUNCOUS
Jun"cous, a. Etym: [L. juncosus, fr. juncus a rush.]

Defn: Full of rushes: resembling rushes; juncaceous. [R.] Johnson.

JUNCTION
Junc"tion, n. Etym: [L. junctio, fr. jungere, junctum, to join: cf.
F. jonction. See Join.]

1. The act of joining, or the state of being joined; union;
combination; coalition; as, the junction of two armies or
detachments; the junction of paths.

2. The place or point of union, meeting, or junction; specifically,
the place where two or more lines of railway meet or cross. Junction
plate (Boilers), a covering or break-join plate riveted to and
uniting the edges of sheets which make a butt joint.
 -- Junction rails (Railroads), the switch, or movable, rails,
connecting one line of track with another.

JUNCTION BOX
Junc"tion box. (Elec.)

Defn: A box through which the main conductors of a system of electric
distribution pass, and where connection is made with branch circuits.

JUNCTURE
Junc"ture, n. Etym: [L.junctura, fr. jungere to join. See Jointure.]

1. A joining; a union; an alliance. [Obs.] "Devotional compliance and
juncture of hearts." Eikon Basilike.

2. The line or point at which two bodies are joined; a joint; an
articulation; a seam; as, the junctures of a vessel or of the bones.
Boyle.

3. A point of time; esp., one made critical or important by a
concurrence of circumstances; hence, a crisis; an exigency.
"Extraordinary junctures." Addison.
In such a juncture, what can the most plausible and refined
philosophy offer Berkeley.

JUNE
June, n. Etym: [L. Junius: cf. F. Juin. So called either from Junius,
the name of a Roman gens, or from Juno, the goddess.]

Defn: The sixth month of the year, containing thirty days.
And what is so rare as a day in June Then, if ever, come perfect
days. Lowell.
June beetle, June bug (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large
brown beetles of the genus Lachnosterna and related genera; -- so
called because they begin to fly, in the northern United States,
about the first of June. The larvæ of the June beetles live under
ground, and feed upon the roots of grasses and other plants. Called
also May bug or May beetle.
 -- June grass (Bot.), a New England name for Kentucky blue grass.
See Blue glass, and Illustration in Appendix.

JUNEATING
June"a*ting, n.

Defn: A kind of early apple. [Written also jenneting.]

JUNEBERRY
June"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)
(a) The small applelike berry of American trees of genus Amelanchier;
-- also called service berry.
(b) The shrub or tree which bears this fruit; -- also called shad
bush, and had tree.

JUNGERMANNIA
Jun`ger*man"ni*a, n.; pl. Jungermanniæ. Etym: [NL. Named after Ludwig
Jungermann, a German botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of hepatic mosses, now much circumscribed, but formerly
comprising most plants of the order, which is sometimes therefore
called Jungermanniaceæ.

JUNGLE
Jun"gle, n. Etym: [Hind. jangal desert, forest, jungle; Skr. ja
desert.]

Defn: A dense growth of brushwood, grasses, reeds, vines, etc.; an
almost impenetrable thicket of trees, canes, and reedy vegetation, as
in India, Africa, Australia, and Brazil.
The jungles of India are of bamboos, canes, and other palms, very
difficult to penetrate. Balfour (Cyc. of India).
Jungle bear (Zoöl.), the aswail or sloth bear.
 -- Jungle cat (Zoöl.), the chaus.
 -- Jungle cock (Zoöl.), the male of a jungle fowl.
 -- Jungle fowl. (Zoöl.) (a) Any wild species of the genus Gallus, of
which several species inhabit India and the adjacent islands; as, the
fork-tailed jungle fowl (G. varius) of Java, G. Stanleyi of Ceylon,
and G. Bankiva of India.

Note: The latter, which resembles the domestic gamecock, is supposed
to be one of the original species from which the domestic fowl was
derived. (b) An Australian grallatorial bird (Megapodius tumulus)
which is allied to the brush turkey, and, like the latter, lays its
eggs in mounds of vegetable matter, where they are hatched by the
heat produced by decomposition.

JUNGLY
Jun"gly, a.

Defn: Consisting of jungles; abounding with jungles; of the nature of
a jungle.

JUNIOR
Jun"ior, a. Etym: [L. contr. fr. juvenior, compar. of juvenis young.
See Juvenile.]

1. Less advanced in age than another; younger.

Note: Junior is applied to distinguish the younger of two persons
bearing the same name in the same family, and is opposed to senior or
elder. Commonly applied to a son who has the same Christian name as
his father.

2. Lower in standing or in rank; later in office; as, a junior
partner; junior counsel; junior captain.

3. Composed of juniors, whether younger or a lower standing; as, the
junior class; of or pertaining to juniors or to a junior class. See
Junior, n., 2.

4. Belonging to a younger person, or an earlier time of life.
Our first studies and junior endeavors. Sir T. Browne.

JUNIOR
Jun"ior, n.

1. A younger person.
His junior she, by thirty years. Byron.

2. Hence: One of a lower or later standing; specifically, in American
colleges, one in the third year of his course, one in the fourth or
final year being designated a senior; in some seminaries, one in the
first year, in others, one in the second year, of a three years'
course.

JUNIORITY
Jun*ior"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being junior.

JUNIPER
Ju"ni*per, n. Etym: [L. juniperus, prop., youth-producing, and so
called from its evergreen appearance, from the roots of E. juvenile,
and parent. Cf. Gin the liquor.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any evergreen shrub or tree, of the genus Juniperus and order
Coniferæ.

Note: The common juniper (J. communis) is a shrub of a low, spreading
form, having awl-shaped, rigid leaves in whorls of threes, and
bearing small purplish blue berries (or galbuli), of a warm, pungent
taste, used as diuretic and in flavoring gin. A resin exudes from the
bark, which has erroneously been considered identical with sandarach,
and is used as pounce. The oil of juniper is acrid, and used for
various purposes, as in medicine, for making varnish, etc. The wood
of several species is of a reddish color, hard and durable, and is
used in cabinetwork under the names of red cedar, Bermuda cedar, etc.
Juniper worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a geometrid moth (Drepanodes
varus). It feeds upon the leaves of the juniper, and mimics the small
twigs both in form and color, in a remarkable manner.

JUNIPERIN
Ju"ni*per*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow amorphous substance extracted from juniper berries.

JUNIPERITE
Ju"ni*per*ite, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: One of the fossil Coniferæ, evidently allied to the juniper.

JUNK
Junk, n.

Defn: A fragment of any solid substance; a thick piece. See Chunk.
[Colloq.] Lowell.

JUNK
Junk, n. Etym: [Pg. junco junk, rush, L. juncus a bulrush, of which
ropes were made in early ages. Cf. Junket.]

1. Pieces of old cable or old cordage, used for making gaskets, mats,
swabs, etc., and when picked to pieces, forming oakum for filling the
seams of ships.

2. Old iron, or other metal, glass, paper, etc., bought and sold by
junk dealers.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: Hard salted beef supplied to ships. Junk bottle , a stout
bottle made of thick dark-colored glass.
 -- Junk dealer, a dealer in old cordage, old metal, glass, etc.
 -- Junk hook (Whaling), a hook for hauling heavy pieces of blubber
on deck.
 -- Junk ring. (a) A packing of soft material round the piston of a
steam engine. (b) A metallic ring for retaining a piston packing in
place; (c) A follower.
 -- Junk shop, a shop where old cordage, and ship's tackle, old iron,
old bottles, old paper, etc., are kept for sale.
 -- Junk vat (Leather Manuf.), a large vat into which spent tan
liquor or ooze is pumped.
 -- Junk wad (Mil.), a wad used in proving cannon; also used in
firing hot shot.

JUNK
Junk, n. Etym: [Pg. junco; cf. Jav. & Malay jong, ajong, Chin.
chwan.] (Naut.)

Defn: A large vessel, without keel or prominent stem, and with huge
masts in one piece, used by the Chinese, Japanese, Siamese, Malays,
etc., in navigating their waters.

JUNKER
Jun"ker, n. Etym: [G. Cf. Yonker.]

Defn: A young German noble or squire; esp., a member of the
aristocratic party in Prussia.

JUNKERISM
Jun"ker*ism, n.

Defn: The principles of the aristocratic party in Prussia.

JUNKET
Jun"ket, n. Etym: [Formerly also juncate, fr. It. giuncata cream
cheese, made in a wicker or rush basket, fr. L. juncus a rush. See 2d
Junk, and cf. Juncate.]

1. A cheese cake; a sweetmeat; any delicate food.
How Faery Mab the junkets eat. Milton.
Victuals varied well in taste, And other junkets. Chapman.

2. A feast; an entertainment.
A new jaunt or junket every night. Thackeray.

JUNKET
Jun"ket, v. i.

Defn: To feast; to banquet; to make an entertainment; -- sometimes
applied opprobriously to feasting by public officers at the public
cost.
Job's children junketed and feasted together often. South.

JUNKET
Jun"ket, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Junketed; p. pr. & vb. n. Junketing.]

Defn: To give entertainment to; to feast.
The good woman took my lodgings over my head, and was in such a hurry
to junket her neighbors. Walpole.

JUNKETING
Jun"ket*ing, n.

Defn: A feast or entertainment; a revel.
All those snug junketings and public gormandizings for which the
ancient magistrates were equally famous with their modern successors.
W. Irving.
The apostle would have no reveling or junketing upon the altar.
South.

JUNKETRIES
Jun"ket*ries, n. pl.

Defn: Sweetmeats. [Obs.]

JUNO
Ju"no, n.; pl. Junos. Etym: [L.]

1. (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: The sister and wife of Jupiter, the queen of heaven, and the
goddess who presided over marriage. She corresponds to the Greek
Hera.
Sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes. Shak.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the early discovered asteroids. Bird of June, the
peacock.

JUNO
Ju"no (ju"no), n.; pl. Junos (-noz). [L.]

1. (Rom. Myth.) The sister and wife of Jupiter, the queen of heaven,
and the goddess who presided over marriage. She corresponds to the
Greek Hera.

Sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes.
Shak.

2. (Astron.) One of the early discovered asteroids.

Bird of Juno, the peacock.

JUNOLD
Jun"old, a. [Obs.]

Defn: See Gimmal.

JUNTA
Jun"ta, n.; pl. Juntas. Etym: [Sp., fr. L. junctus joined, p. p. of
jungere to join. See Join, and cf. Junto.]

Defn: A council; a convention; a tribunal; an assembly; esp., the
grand council of state in Spain.

JUNTO
Jun"to, n.; pl. Juntos. Etym: [Sp. junto united. See Junta.]

Defn: A secret council to deliberate on affairs of government or
politics; a number of men combined for party intrigue; a faction; a
cabal; as, a junto of ministers; a junto of politicians.
The puzzling sons of party next appeared, In dark cabals and mighty
juntos met. Thomson.

JUPARTIE
Jup"ar*tie, n.

Defn: Jeopardy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JUPATI PALM
Ju`pa*ti" palm`. (Bot.)

Defn: A great Brazilian palm tree (Raphia tædigera), used by the
natives for many purposes.

JUPE
Jupe, n.

Defn: Same as Jupon.

JUPITER
Ju"pi*ter, n. Etym: [L., fr. Jovis pater. See Jove.]

1. (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: The supreme deity, king of gods and men, and reputed to be the
son of Saturn and Rhea; Jove. He corresponds to the Greek Zeus.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the planets, being the brightest except Venus, and the
largest of them all, its mean diameter being about 85,000 miles. It
revolves about the sun in 4,332.6 days, at a mean distance of 5.2028
from the sun, the earth's mean distance being taken as unity.
Jupiter's beard. (Bot.) (a) A South European herb, with cymes of
small red blossoms (Centranthus ruber). (b) The houseleek
(Sempervivum tectorum); -- so called from its massive inflorescence,
like the sculptured beard of Jove. Prior. (c) the cloverlike
Anthyllis Barba-Jovis.
 -- Jupiter's staff (Bot.), the common mullein; -- so called from its
long, rigid spike of yellow blossoms.

JUPON; JUPPON
Ju*pon", Jup*pon", n. Etym: [F. jupon, fr. jupe skirt, Sp. aljuba a
Moorish garment, Ar. jubba.] [Written variously jupe, jump, juppo,
etc.]

1. A sleeveless jacket worn over the armor in the 14th century. It
fitted closely, and descended below the hips. Dryden.

2. A petticoat. Halliwell.

JURA
Ju"ra, n. Etym: [F. & L.]

Defn: 1. A range of mountains between France and Switzerland.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: The Jurassic period. See Jurassic.

JURAL
Ju"ral, a. Etym: [L.jus, juris, right.]

1. Pertaining to natural or positive right. [R.]
By the adjective jural we shall denote that which has reference to
the doctrine of rights and obligations; as by the adjective "moral"
we denote that which has reference to the doctrine of duties.
Whewell.

2. (Law)

Defn: Of or pertaining to jurisprudence.

JURAMENTUM
Ju`ra*men"tum, n.; pl. Juramenta (. Etym: [L.] (Roman & Old Eng. Law)

Defn: An oath.

JURASSIC
Ju*ras"sic, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Of the age of the middle Mesozoic, including, as divided in
England and Europe, the Lias, Oölite, and Wealden; -- named from
certain rocks of the Jura mountains.
 -- n.

Defn: The Jurassic period or formation; -- called also the Jura.

JURAT
Ju"rat, n. Etym: [Prov. F. jurat, fr. L. juratus sworn, p. p. of
jurare to swear. See Jury, n.]

1. A person under oath; specifically, an officer of the nature of an
alderman, in certain municipal corporations in England. Burrill.

2. (Law)

Defn: The memorandum or certificate at the end of an asffidavit, or a
bill or answer in chancery, showing when, before whom, and (in
English practice), where, it was sworn or affirmed. Wharton. Bouvier.

JURATORY
Ju"ra*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. juratorius, fr. jurare to swear: cf. F.
juratoire.]

Defn: Relating to or comprising an oath; as, juratory caution.
Ayliffe.

JURA-TRIAS
Ju`ra-tri"as, n. (Geol.)

Defn: A term applied to many American Mesozoic strata, in which the
characteristics of the Jurassic and Triassic periods appear to be
blended.
 -- Ju`ra-tri*as"sic, a.

JURDICCION
Jur*dic"ci*on, n.

Defn: Jurisdiction. [Obs.]

JURDON
Jur"don, n.

Defn: Jordan. [Obs.] Chaucer.

JUREL
Ju"rel, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A yellow carangoid fish of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts (Caranx
chrysos), most abundant southward, where it is valued as a food fish;
-- called also hardtail, horse crevallé, jack, buffalo jack,
skipjack, yellow mackerel, and sometimes, improperly, horse mackerel.
Other species of Caranx (as C. fallax) are also sometimes called
jurel.

JURIDIC; JURIDICAL
Ju*rid"ic, Ju*rid"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. juridicus relating to the
administration of justice; jus, juris, right, law + dicare to
pronounce: cf. F. juridique. See Just, a., and Diction.]

Defn: Pertaining to a judge or to jurisprudence; acting in the
distribution of justice; used in courts of law; according to law;
legal; as, juridical law. "This juridical sword." Milton.
The body corporate of the kingdom, in juridical construction, never
dies. Burke.
Juridical days, days on which courts are open.

JURIDICALLY
Ju*rid*ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a juridical manner.

JURISCONSULT
Ju`ris*con"sult, n. Etym: [L. jurisconsultus; jus, juris, right +
consulere, consultum, to consult: cf. F. jurisconsulte.] (Law)

Defn: A man learned in the civil law; an expert in juridical science;
a professor of jurisprudence; a jurist.

JURISDICTION
Ju`ris*dic"tion, n. Etym: [L. jurisdictio; jus, juris, right, law +
dictio a saying, speaking: cf. OF. jurisdiction, F. juridiction. See
Just, a., and Diction.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The legal power, right, or authority of a particular court to
hear and determine causes, to try criminals, or to execute justice;
judicial authority over a cause or class of causes; as, certain suits
or actions, or the cognizance of certain crimes, are within the
jurisdiction of a particular court, that is, within the limits of its
authority or commission.

2. The authority of a sovereign power to govern or legislate; the
right of making or enforcing laws; the power or right of exercising
authority.
To live exempt From Heaven's high jurisdiction. Milton.
You wrought to be a legate; by which power You maim'd the
jurisdiction of all bishops. Shak.

3. Sphere of authority; the limits within which any particular power
may be exercised, or within which a government or a court has
authority.

Note: Jurisdiction, in its most general sense, is the power to make,
declare, or apply the law. When confined to the judiciary department,
it is what we denominate the judicial power, the right of
administering justice through the laws, by the means which the laws
have provided for that purpose. Jurisdiction is limited to place or
territory, to persons, or to particular subjects. Duponceau.

JURISDICTIONAL
Ju`ris*dic"tion*al, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. jurisdictionalis, F.
juridictionnel.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to jurisdiction; as jurisdictional rights.
Barrow.

JURISDICTIVE
Ju`ris*dic"tive, a.

Defn: Having jurisdiction. Milton.

JURISPRUDENCE
Ju`ris*pru"dence, n. Etym: [L. jurisprudentia; jus, juris, right, law
+ prudentia a foreseeing, knowledge of a matter, prudence: cf. F.
jurisprudence. See Just, a., and Prudence.]

Defn: The science of juridical law; the knowledge of the laws,
customs, and rights of men in a state or community, necessary for the
due administration of justice.
The talents of Abelard were not confined to theology, jurisprudence,
philosophy. J. Warton.
Medical jurisprudence, that branch of juridical law which concerns
questions of medicine.

JURISPRUDENT
Ju`ris*pru"dent, a.Etym: [See Jurisprudence.]

Defn: Understanding law; skilled in jurisprudence. G. West.

JURISPRUDENT
Ju`ris*pru"dent, n. Etym: [Cf. F. jurisprudent.]

Defn: One skilled in law or jurisprudence. [R.] De Quincey.

JURISPRUDENTIAL
Ju`ris*pru*den"tial, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to jurisprudence. Stewart.

JURIST
Ju`rist, n. Etym: [F. juriste, LL. jurista, fr. L. jus, juris, right,
law. See Just, a.]

Defn: One who professes the science of law; one versed in the law,
especially in the civil law; a writer on civil and international law.
It has ever been the method of public jurists to Burke.

JURISTIC; JURISTICAL
Ju*ris"tic, Ju*ris"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a jurist, to the legal profession, or to
jurisprudence. [R.] "Juristic ancestry." Lowell.

JUROR
Ju"ror, n. Etym: [F. jureur one who takes oath, L. jurator a swearer,
fr. jurare, jurari, to swear. See Jury, n.]

1. (Law)

Defn: A member of a jury; a juryman.
I shall both find your lordship judge and juror. Shak.

2. A member of any jury for awarding prizes, etc.

JURY
Ju"ry, a. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Naut.)

Defn: For temporary use; -- applied to a temporary contrivance. Jury
mast, a temporary mast, in place of one that has been carried away,
or broken.
 -- Jury rudder, a rudder constructed for temporary use.

JURY
Ju"ry, n.; pl. Juries. Etym: [OF. jurée an assize, fr. jurer to
swear, L. jurare, jurari; akin to jus, juris, right, law. See
Just,a., and cf. Jurat, Abjure.]

1. (Law)

Defn: A body of men, usually twelve, selected according to law,
impaneled and sworn to inquire into and try any matter of fact, and
to render their true verdict according to the evidence legally
adduced. See Grand jury under Grand, and Inquest.
The jury, passing on the prisoner's life. Shak.

2. A committee for determining relative merit or awarding prizes at
an exhibition or competition; as, the art jury gave him the first
prize. Jury of inquest, a coroner's jury. See Inquest.

JURYMAN
Ju"ry*man, n.; pl. Jurymen (.

Defn: One who is impaneled on a jury, or who serves as a juror.

JURY MAST
Ju"ry mast.
 (a) A temporary mast, in place of one that has been carried away, or
broken.
 (b) (Med.) An apparatus to support the trunk and head in spinal
disease.

JURY-RIGGED
Ju"ry-rigged`, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Rigged for temporary service. See Jury, a.

JUSSI
Jus"si, n.

Defn: A delicate fiber, produced in the Philippine Islands from an
unidentified plant, of which dresses, etc., are made.

JUST
Just, a. Etym: [F. juste, L. justus, fr. jus right, law, justice;
orig., that which is fitting; akin to Skr. yu to join. Cf. Injury,
Judge, Jury, Giusto.]

1. Conforming or conformable to rectitude or justice; not doing wrong
to any; violating no right or obligation; upright; righteous; honest;
true; -- said both of persons and things. "O just but severe law!"
Shak.
There is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not.
Eccl. vii. 20.
Just balances, just weights, . . . shall ye have. Lev. xix. 36.
How should man be just with God Job ix. 2.
We know your grace to be a man. Just and upright. Shak.

2. Not transgressing the requirement of truth and propriety;
conformed to the truth of things, to reason, or to a proper standard;
exact; normal; reasonable; regular; due; as, a just statement; a just
inference.
Just of thy word, in every thought sincere. Pope.
The prince is here at hand: pleaseth your lordship To meet his grace
just distance 'tween our armies. Shak.
He was a comely personage, a little above just stature. Bacon.
Fire fitted with just materials casts a constant heat. Jer. Taylor.
When all The war shall stand ranged in its just array. Addison.
Their named alone would make a just volume. Burton.

3. Rendering or disposed to render to each one his due; equitable;
fair; impartial; as, just judge.
Men are commonly so just to virtue and goodness as to praise it in
others, even when they do not practice it themselves. Tillotson.
Just intonation. (Mus.) (a) The correct sounding of notes or
intervals; true pitch. (b) The giving all chords and intervals in
their purity or their exact mathematical ratio, or without
temperament; a process in which the number of notes and intervals
required in the various keys is much greater than the twelve to the
octave used in systems of temperament. H. W. Poole.

Syn.
 -- Equitable; upright; honest; true; fair; impartial; proper; exact;
normal; orderly; regular.

JUST
Just, adv.

1. Precisely; exactly; -- in place, time, or degree; neither more nor
less than is stated.
And having just enough, not covet more. Dryden.
The god Pan guided my hand just to the heart of the beast. Sir P.
Sidney.
To-night, at Herne's oak, just 'twixt twelve and one. Shak.

2. Closely; nearly; almost.
Just at the point of death. Sir W. Temple.

3. Barely; merely; scarcely; only; by a very small space or time; as,
he just missed the train; just too late.
A soft Etesian gale But just inspired and gently swelled the sail.
Dryden.
Just now, the least possible time since; a moment ago.

JUST
Just, v. i. Etym: [See Joust.]

Defn: To joust. Fairfax.

JUST
Just, n.

Defn: A joust. Dryden.

JUSTICE
Jus"tice, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. justitia, fr. justus just. See Just,
a.]

1. The quality of being just; conformity to the principles of
righteousness and rectitude in all things; strict performance of
moral obligations; practical conformity to human or divine law;
integrity in the dealings of men with each other; rectitude; equity;
uprightness.
Justice and judgment are the haditation of thy throne. Ps. ixxxix.
11.
The king-becoming graces, As justice, verity, temperance, stableness,
. . . I have no relish of them. Shak.

2. Conformity to truth and reality in expressing opinions and in
conduct; fair representation of facts respecting merit or demerit;
honesty; fidelity; impartiality; as, the justice of a description or
of a judgment; historical justice.

3. The rendering to every one his due or right; just treatment;
requital of desert; merited reward or punishment; that which is due
to one's conduct or motives.
This even-handed justice Commends the ingredients of our poisoned
chalice To our own lips. Shak.

4. Agreeableness to right; equity; justness; as, the justice of a
claim.

5. A person duly commissioned to hold courts, or to try and decide
controversies and administer justice.

Note: This title is given to the judges of the common law courts in
England and in the United States, and extends to judicial officers
and magistrates of every grade. Bed of justice. See under Bed.
 -- Chief justice. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Justice of the peace (Law), a judicial officer or subordinate
magistrate appointed for the conservation of the peace in a specified
district, with other incidental powers specified in his commission.
In the United States a justice of the peace has jurisdiction to
adjudicate certain minor cases, commit offenders, etc.

Syn.
 -- Equity; law; right; rectitude; honesty; integrity; uprightness;
fairness; impartiality.
 -- Justice, Equity, Law. Justice and equity are the same; but human
laws, though designed to secure justice, are of necessity imperfect,
and hence what is strictly legal is at times far from being equitable
or just. Here a court of equity comes in to redress the grievances.
It does so, as distinguished from courts of law; and as the latter
are often styled courts of justice, some have fancied that there is
in this case a conflict between justice and equity. The real conflict
is against the working of the law; this a court of equity brings into
accordance with the claims of justice. It would be an unfortunate use
of language which should lead any one to imagine he might have
justice on his side while practicing iniquity (inequity). Justice,
Rectitude. Rectitude, in its widest sense, is one of the most
comprehensive words in our language, denoting absolute conformity to
the rule of right in principle and practice. Justice refers more
especially to the carrying out of law, and has been considered by
moralists as of three kinds: (1) Commutative justice, which gives
every man his own property, including things pledged by promise. (2)
Distributive justice, which gives every man his exact deserts. (3)
General justice, which carries out all the ends of law, though not in
every case through the precise channels of commutative or
distributive justice; as we see often done by a parent or a ruler in
his dealings with those who are subject to his control.

JUSTICE
Jus"tice, v. t.

Defn: To administer justice to. [Obs.] Bacon.

JUSTICEABLE
Jus"tice*a*ble, a.

Defn: Liable to trial in a court of justice. [Obs.] Hayward.

JUSTICEHOOD
Jus"tice*hood, n.

Defn: Justiceship. B. Jonson.

JUSTICEMENT
Jus"tice*ment, n.

Defn: Administration of justice; procedure in courts of justice.
[Obs.] Johnson.

JUSTICER
Jus"ti*cer, n.

Defn: One who administers justice; a judge. [Obs.] "Some upright
justicer." Shak.

JUSTICESHIP
Jus"tice*ship, n.

Defn: The office or dignity of a justice. Holland.

JUSTICIABLE
Jus*ti"ci*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. justitiabilis, F. justiciable.]

Defn: Proper to be examined in a court of justice. Bailey.

JUSTICIAR
Jus*ti"ci*ar, n.

Defn: Same as Justiciary.

JUSTICIARY
Jus*ti"ci*a*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. justitiarius, F. justicier. See
Justice.] (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: An old name for the judges of the higher English courts.

Note: The chief justiciary, or justiciar, in early English history,
was not only the chief justice of the kingdom, but also ex officio
regent in the king's absence. Court of justiciary (Scots Law), the
supreme criminal court, having jurisdiction over the whole of
Scotland.

JUSTICO; JUSTICOAT
Jus"ti*co, Jus"ti*coat`, n. Etym: [F. justaucorps, lit., close to the
body.]

Defn: Formerly, a close coat or waistcoat with sleeves.

JUSTIFIABLE
Jus"ti*fi`a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. justifiable. See Justify.]

Defn: Capable of being justified, or shown to be just.
Just are the ways of God, An justifiable to men. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Defensible; vindicable; warrantable; excusable; exculpable;
authorizable.
 -- Jus"ti*fi`a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Jus"ti*fi`a*bly, adv.

JUSTIFICATION
Jus`ti*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. justificatio: cf. F. justification.
See Justify.]

1. The act of justifying or the state of being justified; a showing
or proving to be just or conformable to law, justice, right, or duty;
defense; vindication; support; as, arguments in justification of the
prisoner's conduct; his disobedience admits justification.
I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote this but as an essay
or taste of my virtue. Shak.

2. (Law)

Defn: The showing in court of a sufficient lawful reason why a party
charged or accused did that for which he is called to answer.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: The act of justifying, or the state of being justified, in
respect to God's requirements.
Who was delivered for our offenses, and was raised again for our
justification. Rom. iv. 25.
In such righteousness To them by faith imputed, they may find
Justification toward God, and peace Of conscience. Milton.

4. (Print.)

Defn: Adjustment of type by spacing it so as to make it exactly fill
a line, or of a cut so as to hold it in the right place; also, the
leads, quads, etc., used for making such adjustment.

JUSTIFICATIVE
Jus*tif"i*ca*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. justificatif.]

Defn: Having power to justify; justificatory.

JUSTIFICATOR
Jus"ti*fi*ca`tor, n. Etym: [LL. justificator: cf. F. justificateur.]

Defn: One who justifies or vindicates; a justifier. Johnson.

JUSTIFICATORY
Jus*tif"i*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Vindicatory; defensory; justificative.

JUSTIFIER
Jus"ti*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who justifies; one who vindicates, supports, defends, or
absolves.
Justifiers of themselves and hypocrites. Strype.
That he might be just, and the justifier of him which believeth in
Jesus. Rom. iii. 26.

JUSTIFY
Jus"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Justified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Justifying.] Etym: [F. justifier, L. justificare; justus just + -
ficare (in comp.) to make. See Just, a., and -fy.]

1. To prove or show to be just; to vindicate; to maintain or defend
as conformable to law, right, justice, propriety, or duty.
That to the height of this great argument I may assert eternal
providence, And justify the ways of God to men. Milton.
Unless the oppression is so extreme as to justify revolution, it
would not justify the evil of breaking up a government. E. Everett.

2. To pronounce free from guilt or blame; to declare or prove to have
done that which is just, right, proper, etc.; to absolve; to
exonerate; to clear.
I can not justify whom the law condemns. Shak.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: To treat as if righteous and just; to pardon; to exculpate; to
absolve.
By him all that believe are justified from all things, from which ye
could not be justified by the law of Moses. Acts xiii. 39.

4. To prove; to ratify; to confirm. [Obs.] Shak.

5. (Print.)

Defn: To make even or true, as lines of type, by proper spacing; to
adjust, as type. See Justification, 4.

Syn.
 -- To defend; maintain; vindicate; excuse; exculpate; absolve;
exonerate.

JUSTIFY
Jus"ti*fy, v. i.

1. (Print.)

Defn: To form an even surface or true line with something else; to
fit exactly.

2. (Law)

Defn: To take oath to the ownership of property sufficient to qualify
one's self as bail or surety.

JUSTINIAN
Jus*tin"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Institutes or laws of the Roman
Justinian.

JUSTLE
Jus"tle, v. i. Etym: [Freq. of joust, just, v. i. See Joust, v. i.,
and cf. Jostle.]

Defn: To run or strike against each other; to encounter; to clash; to
jostle. Shak.
The chariots shall rage in the streets; they shall justle one against
another in the broad ways. Nahum ii. 4.

JUSTLE
Jus"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Justled; p. pr. & vb. n. Justling.]

Defn: To push; to drive; to force by running against; to jostle.
We justled one another out, and disputed the post for a great while.
Addison.

JUSTLE
Jus"tle, n.

Defn: An encounter or shock; a jostle.

JUSTLY
Just"ly, adv. Etym: [From Just, a.]

Defn: In a just manner; in conformity to law, justice, or propriety;
by right; honestly; fairly; accurately. "In equal balance justly
weighed." Shak.
Nothing can justly be despised that can not justly be blamed: where
there is no choice there can be no blame. South.

JUSTNESS
Just"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being just; conformity to truth, propriety,
accuracy, exactness, and the like; justice; reasonableness; fairness;
equity; as, justness of proportions; the justness of a description or
representation; the justness of a cause.
In value the satisfaction I had in seeing it represented with all the
justness and gracefulness of action. Dryden.

Note: Justness is properly applied to things, and justice to persons;
but the distinction is not always observed.

Syn.
 -- Accuracy; exactness; correctness; propriety; fitness;
reasonableness; equity; uprightness; justice.

JUT
Jut, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jutted; p. pr. & vb. n. Jutting.] Etym: [A
corruption of jet.]

1. To shoot out or forward; to project beyond the main body; as, the
jutting part of a building. "In jutting rock and curved shore."
Wordsworth.
It seems to jut out of the structure of the poem. Sir T. Browne.

2. To butt. [Obs.] "The jutting steer." Mason.

JUT
Jut, n.

1. That which projects or juts; a projection.

2. A shove; a push. [Obs.] Udall.

JUTE
Jute, n. Etym: [Hind. j, Skr. j matted hair; cf. ja matted hair,
fibrous roots.]

Defn: The coarse, strong fiber of the East Indian Corchorus
olitorius, and C. capsularis; also, the plant itself. The fiber is
much used for making mats, gunny cloth, cordage, hangings, paper,
etc.

JUTES
Jutes, n. pl. sing. Jute. (Ethnol.)

Defn: Jutlanders; one of the Low German tribes, a portion of which
settled in Kent, England, in the 5th century.

JUTLANDER
Jut"land*er, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Jutland in Denmark.

JUTLANDISH
Jut"land*ish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Jutland, or to the people of Jutland.

JUTTING
Jut"ting, a.

Defn: Projecting, as corbels, cornices, etc.
 -- Jut"ting*ly, adv.

JUTTY
Jut"ty, n. Etym: [See Jetty, Jut, Jet.]

Defn: A projection in a building; also, a pier or mole; a jetty.
Shak.

JUTTY
Jut"ty, v. t. & i.

Defn: To project beyond. [Obs.] Shak.

JUVENAL
Ju"ve*nal, n. Etym: [L. juvenalis youthful, juvenile, fr. juvenis
young.]

Defn: A youth. [Obs.] Shak.

JUVENESCENCE
Ju`ve*nes"cence, n.

Defn: A growing young.

JUVENESCENT
Ju`ve*nes"cent, a. Etym: [L. juvenescens, p. pr. of juvenescere to
grow young again, from juvenis young.]

Defn: Growing or becoming young.

JUVENILE
Ju"ve*nile, a. Etym: [L. juvenilis, from juvenis young; akin to E.
young: cf. F. juvénile, juvénil. See Young.]

1. Young; youthful; as, a juvenile appearance. "A juvenile
exercitation." Glanvill.

2. Of or pertaining to youth; as, juvenile sports.

Syn.
 -- Puerile; boyish; childish. See Youthful.

JUVENILE
Ju"ve*nile, n.

Defn: A young person or youth; -- used sportively or familiarly. C.
Bronté.

JUVENILENESS
Ju"ve*nile*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being juvenile; juvenility.

JUVENILITY
Ju`ve*nil"i*ty, n.; pl. Juvenilities. Etym: [L. juvenilitas: cf. F.
juvénilité.]

1. Youthfulness; adolescence. Glanvill.

2. The manners or character of youth; immaturity. Glanvill.

JUVIA
Ju"vi*a, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A Brazilian name for the lofty myrtaceous tree (Bertholetia
excelsa) which produces the large seeds known as Brazil nuts.

JUWANSA
Ju*wan"sa, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The camel's thorn. See under Camel.

JUWISE
Ju*wise", n. [Obs.]

Defn: Same as Juise. Chaucer.

JUXTAPOSE
Jux`ta*pose", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Juxtaposit, Pose.]

Defn: To place in juxtaposition. Huxley.

JUXTAPOSIT
Jux`ta*pos"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Juxtaposited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Juxtapositing.] Etym: [L. juxta near + positus, p. p. of ponere to
put.]

Defn: To place in close connection or contiguity; to juxtapose.
Derham.

JUXTAPOSITION
Jux`ta*po*si"tion, n. Etym: [L. juxta near + positio position: cf. F.
juxtaposition. See Just, v. i., and Position.]

Defn: A placing or being placed in nearness or contiguity, or side by
side; as, a juxtaposition of words.
Parts that are united by a a mere juxtaposition. Glanvill.
Juxtaposition is a very unsafe criterion of continuity. Hare.

JYMOLD
Jym"old (jim"old), a. [Obs.]

Defn: See Gimmal.


[END]

End of Project Gutenberg's Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***

***** This file should be named 29765-8.txt or 29765-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/7/6/29765/

Produced by Graham Lawrence

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
