The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***




Produced by Graham Lawrence

[START]

K

Defn: (K is from the Latin, which used the letter but little except
in the early period of the language. It came into the Latin from the
Greek, which received it from a Phoenician source, the ultimate
origin probably being Egyptian,. Etymologically K is most nearly
related to c, g, h (which see).

Note: In many words of one syllable k is used after c, as in crack,
check, deck, being necessary to exhibit a correct pronunciation in
the derivatives, cracked, checked, decked, cracking; since without
it, c, before the vowels e and i, would be sounded like s. Formerly,
k was added to c in certain words of Latin origin, as in musick,
publick, republick; but now it is omitted.

Note: See Guide to Pronunciation , §§ 240, 178, 179, 185.

KAAMA
Kaa"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hartbeest.

KABALA
Kab"a*la, n.

Defn: See Cabala.

KABASSOU
Ka*bas"sou, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cabassou.

KABOB
Ka*bob", n. & v. t.

Defn: See Cabob, n. & v. t.

KABOOK
Ka*book", n. (min.)

Defn: A clay ironstone found in Ceylon.

KABYLE
Ka*byle", n. Etym: [Ar. qabila.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: A Berber, as in Algiers or Tunis. See Berber.

KADDER
Kad"der, n. Etym: [Cf. Caddow.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The jackdaw.

KADI; KADIASTER
Ka"di, Ka`di*as"ter, n.

Defn: A Turkish judge. See Cadi.

KAFAL
Ka*fal", n. (Bot.)

Defn: The Arabian name of two trees of the genus Balsamodendron,
which yield a gum resin and a red aromatic wood.

KAFFIR; KAFIR
Kaf"fir, Ka"fir, n. Etym: [Ar. k infidel, pagan, fr. kafara to be
skeptical in religious matters; -- a name given to certain infidel
races by the Mohammedans. Cf. Giaour.] (Ethnol.)
(a) One of a race which, with the Hottentots and Bushmen, inhabit
South Africa. They inhabit the country north of Cape Colony, the name
being now specifically applied to the tribes living between Cape
Colony and Natal; but the Zulus of Natal are true Kaffirs.
(b) One of a race inhabiting Kafiristan in Central Asia. [Spelt also
Caffre.] Kaffir corn (Bot.), a Cape Colony name for Indian millet.

KAFFLE
Kaf"fle, n.

Defn: See Coffle.

KAFILAH
Ka"fi*lah, n.

Defn: See Cafila.

KAFTAN
Kaf"tan, n & v.

Defn: See Caftan.

KAGE
Kage, n.

Defn: A chantry chapel inclosed with lattice or screen work.

KAGU
Ka"gu, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A singular, crested, grallatorial bird (Rhinochetos jubatus),
native of New Caledonia. It is gray above, paler beneath, and the
feathers of the wings and tail are handsomely barred with brown,
black, and gray. It is allied to the sun bittern.

KAGUAN
Ka`gu*an", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The colugo.

KAHANI
Ka"ha"ni, n.

Defn: A kind of notary public, or attorney, in the Levant.

KAHAU
Ka*hau", n. Etym: [Native name, from its cry.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A long-nosed monkey (Semnopithecus nasalis), native of Borneo.
The general color of the body is bright chestnut, with the under
parts, shoulders, and sides of the head, golden yellow, and the top
of the head and upper part of the back brown. Called also proboscis
monkey. [Written also kaha.]

KAIL
Kail, n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of headless cabbage. Same as Kale, 1.

2. Any cabbage, greens, or vegetables. [OE. or Scot.]

3. A broth made with kail or other vegetables; hence, any broth;
also, a dinner. [Scot.] Kail yard, a kitchen garden. [Scot.]

KAIMACAM
Kai`ma*cam", n.

Defn: Same as Caimacam.

KAIN
Kain, n. (Scots Law)

Defn: Poultry, etc., required by the lease to be paid in kind by a
tenant to his landlord. Wharton (Law Dict.).

KAINIT
Kai"nit, n. Etym: [Trade name, fr. kainite.]

Defn: Salts of potassium used in the manufacture of fertilizers.

KAINITE
Kai"nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A compound salt consisting chiefly of potassium chloride and
magnesium sulphate, occurring at the Stassfurt salt mines in Prussian
Saxony.

KAINOZOIC
Kai`no*zo"ic, a.

Defn: See Cenozoic.

KAIQUE
Ka*ique", n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Caique.

KAIRINE
Kai"rine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A pale buff or white crystalline alkaloid derived from
quinoline, and used as an antipyretic in medicine.

KAIROLINE
Kai`ro*line, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An organic base obtained from quinoline. It is used as a
febrifuge, and resembles kairine.

KAISER
Kai"ser, n. Etym: [Gr., fr. L. Caesar. Cf. Kesar, and Czar.]

Defn: The ancient title of emperors of Germany assumed by King
William of Prussia when crowned sovereign of the new German empire in
1871.

KAKA
Ka"ka, n. Etym: [Maori kaka a parrot; -- so named from its note.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A New Zealand parrot of the genus Nestor, especially the brown
parrot (Nestor meridionalis).

Note: The mountain kaka, or kea (N. notabilis), is remarkable for
having recently acquired carnivorous habits. It attacks and kills
lambs and pigs, sometimes doing great damage. Night kaka. (Zoöl.) The
kakapo.

KAKAPO
Ka`ka*po", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A singular nocturnal parrot (Strigops habroptilus), native of
New Zealand. It lives in holes during the day, but is active at
night. It resembles an owl in its colors and general appearance. It
has large wings, but can fly only a short distance. Called also owl
parrot, night parrot, and night kaka.

KAKARALLI
Kak`a*ral"li, n.

Defn: A kind of wood common in Demerara, durable in salt water,
because not subject to the depredations of the sea worm and barnacle.

KAKISTOCRACY
Kak`is*toc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Government by the worst men.

KAKOXENE
Ka*kox"ene, n.

Defn: See Cacoxene.

KALAN
Ka*lan", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sea otter.

KALASIE
Ka`la*sie", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A long-tailed monkey of Borneo (Semnopithecus rubicundus). It
has a tuft of long hair on the head.

KALE
Kale, n. Etym: [Scot. kale, kail, cale, colewort, Gael. cael; akin to
Ir. cal, W. cawl, Armor. kaol. See Cole.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A variety of cabbage in which the leaves do not form a head,
being nearly the original or wild form of the species. [Written also
kail, and cale.]

2. See Kail, 2. Sea kale (Bot.), a European cruciferous herb (Crambe
maritima), often used as a pot herb; sea cabbage.

KALEEGE
Ka*leege", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of large, crested, Asiatic pheasants,
belonging to the genus Euplocamus, and allied to the firebacks.

KALEIDOPHON; KALEIDOPHONE
Ka*lei"do*phon, Ka*lei"do*phone, Etym: [Gr. (Physics.)

Defn: An instrument invented by Professor Wheatstone, consisting of a
reflecting knob at the end of a vibrating rod or thin plate, for
making visible, in the motion of a point of light reflected from the
knob, the paths or curves corresponding with the musical notes
produced by the vibrations.

KALEIDOSCOPE
Ka*lei"do*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: An instrument invented by Sir David Brewster, which contains
loose fragments of colored glass, etc., and reflecting surfaces so
arranged that changes of position exhibit its contents in an endless
variety of beautiful colors and symmetrical forms. It has been much
employed in arts of design.
Shifting like the fragments of colored glass in the kaleidoscope. G.
W. Cable.

KALEIDOSCOPIC; KALEIDOSCOPICAL
Ka*lei`do*scop"ic, Ka*lei`do*scop"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or formed by, a kaleidoscope; variegated.

KALENDAR
Kal"en*dar, n.

Defn: See Calendar.

KALENDARIAL
Kal`en*da"ri*al, a.

Defn: See Calendarial.

KALENDER
Kal"en*der, n.

Defn: See 3d Calender.

KALENDS
Kal"ends, n.

Defn: Same as Calends.

KALI
Ka"li, n. Etym: [Skr. kali.] (Hind. Cosmog.)

Defn: The last and worst of the four ages of the world; -- considered
to have begun B. C. 3102, and to last 432,000 years.

KALI
Ka"li, n. Etym: [Skr. kali.] (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: The black, destroying goddess; -- called also Doorga, Anna
Purna.

KALI
Ka"li, n. Etym: [Ar. qali. See Alkali.] (Bot.)

Defn: The glasswort (Salsola Kali).

KALIF
Ka"lif, n.

Defn: See Caliph.

KALIFORM
Ka"li*form, a. Etym: [Kali + -form.]

Defn: Formed like kali, or glasswort.

KALIGENOUS
Ka*lig"e*nous, a. Etym: [Kali + -genous. See Alkali.]

Defn: Forming alkalies with oxygen, as some metals.

KALIUM
Ka"li*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Kali.] (Chem.)

Defn: Potassium; -- so called by the German chemists.

KALKI
Kal"ki, n. Etym: [Skr.]

Defn: The name of Vishnu in his tenth and last avatar. Whitworth.

KALMIA
Kal"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL. Named in honor of Peter Kalm, a Swedish
botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of North American shrubs with poisonous evergreen
foliage and corymbs of showy flowers. Called also mountain laurel,
ivy bush, lamb kill, calico bush, etc.

KALMUCK
Kal"muck, n.

1. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: See Calmucks.

2. A kind of shaggy cloth, resembling bearskin.

3. A coarse, dyed, cotton cloth, made in Prussia.

KALONG
Ka*long", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fruit bat, esp. the Indian edible fruit bat (Pteropus
edulis).

KALOYER
Ka*loy"er, n.

Defn: See Caloyer.

KALPA
Kal"pa, n. Etym: [Skr.] (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: One of the Brahmanic eons, a period of 4,320,000,000 years. At
the end of each Kalpa the world is annihilated.

KALSOMINE
Kal"so*mine, n. & v. t.

Defn: Same as Calcimine.

KAM
Kam, a. Etym: [From Celtic; cf. Gael., Ir., & W. cam. Cf. Jamb, n.]

Defn: Crooked; awry. [Obs.] "This is clean kam." Shak.

KAMA
Ka"ma, n. Etym: [Skr. kama love, the god of love.]

Defn: The Hindoo Cupid. He is represented as a beautiful youth, with
a bow of sugar cane or flowers.

KAMALA
Ka*ma"la, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The red dusty hairs of the capsules of an East Indian tree
(Mallotus Philippinensis) used for dyeing silk. It is violently
emetic, and is used in the treatment of tapeworm. [Written also
kameela.]

KAME
Kame, n.

Defn: A low ridge. [Scot.] See Eschar.

KAMI
Ka"mi, n. pl. Etym: [Japanese.]

Defn: A title given to the celestial gods of the first mythical
dynasty of Japan and extended to the demigods of the second dynasty,
and then to the long line of spiritual princes still represented by
the mikado.

KAMICHI
Ka"mi*chi, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A curious South American bird (Anhima, or Palamedea, cornuta),
often domesticated by the natives and kept with poultry, which it
defends against birds of prey. It has a long, slender, hornlike
ornament on its head, and two sharp spurs on each wing. Although its
beak, feet, and legs resemble those of gallinaceous birds, it is
related in anatomical characters to the ducks and geese (Anseres).
Called also horned screamer. The name is sometimes applied also to
the chaja. See Chaja, and Screamer.

KAMPTULICON
Kamp*tu"li*con, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A kind of elastic floor cloth, made of India rubber, gutta-
percha, linseed oil, and powdered cork.

KAMPYLITE
Kam"py*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of mimetite or arseniate of lead in hexagonal prisms
of a fine orange yellow. [Written also campylite.]

KAMSIN; KHAMSIN
Kam*sin", Kham*sin", n. Etym: [Ar. khamsin, fr. khamsun, oblique case
khamsin, fifty; -- so called because it blows for about fifty days,
from April till June.]

Defn: A hot southwesterly wind in Egypt, coming from the Sahara.
[Written also Khamseen.]

KAMTSCHADALES
Kam"tscha*dales, n. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: An aboriginal tribe inhabiting the southern part of
Kamtschatka.

KAN
Kan, v. t.

Defn: To know; to ken. [Obs.] See Ken.

KAN
Kan, n.

Defn: See Khan.

KANACKA; KANAKA
Ka*nack"a, Ka*na"ka, n. Etym: [Native name, prop., a man.]

Defn: A native of the Sandwich Islands.

KANCHIL
Kan"chil, n. Etym: [Malay canchil.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small chevrotain of the genus Tragulus, esp. T. pygmæus, or
T. kanchil, inhabiting Java, Sumatra, and adjacent islands; a
deerlet. It is noted for its agility and cunning.

KAND
Kand, n. (Mining)

Defn: Fluor spar; -- so called by Cornish miners.

KANGAROO
Kan"ga*roo", n. Etym: [Said to be the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of jumping marsupials of the family
Macropodidæ. They inhabit Australia, New Guinea, and adjacent
islands, They have long and strong hind legs and a large tail, while
the fore legs are comparatively short and feeble. The giant kangaroo
(Macropus major) is the largest species, sometimes becoming twelve or
fourteen feet in total length. The tree kangaroos, belonging to the
genus Dendrolagus, live in trees; the rock kangaroos, of the genus
Petrogale, inhabit rocky situations; and the brush kangaroos, of the
genus Halmaturus, inhabit wooded districts. See Wallaby.

Kangaroo apple (Bot.), the edible fruit of the Tasmanian plant
Solanum aviculare.
 -- Kangaroo grass (Bot.), a perennial Australian forage grass
(Anthistiria australis).
 -- Kangaroo hare (Zoöl.), the jerboa kangaroo. See under Jerboa.
 -- Kangaroo mouse. (Zoöl.) See Jumping mouse, under Jumping.
 -- Kangaroo rat (Zoöl.), the potoroo.

KANSAS
Kan"sas, n. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians allied to the Winnebagoes and Osages. They
formerly inhabited the region which is now the State of Kansas, but
were removed to the Indian Territory.

KANTIAN
Kant"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Immanuel Kant, the German philosopher;
conformed or relating to any or all of the philosophical doctrines of
Immanuel Kant.

KANTIAN
Kant"i*an, n.

Defn: A follower of Kant; a Kantist.

KANTIANISM; KANTISM
Kant"i*an*ism, Kant"ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine or theory of Kant; the Kantian philosophy.

KANTIST
Kant"ist n.

Defn: A disciple or follower of Kant.

KANTTRY
Kant"try, n.

Defn: Same as Cantred.

KAOLIN; KAOLINE
Ka"o*lin, Ka"o*line, n. Etym: [Chin. kao-ling.] (Min.)

Defn: A very pure white clay, ordinarily in the form of an impalpable
powder, and used to form the paste of porcelain; China clay;
porcelain clay. It is chiefly derived from the decomposition of
common feldspar.

Note: The name is now applied to all porcelain clays which endure the
fire without discoloration.

KAOLINIZATION
Ka`o*lin`i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The process by which feldspar is changed into kaolin.

KAOLINIZE
Ka"o*lin*ize, v. t.

Defn: To convert into kaolin.

KAPELLE
Ka*pel"le, n. Etym: [G.] (Mus.)

Defn: A chapel; hence, the choir or orchestra of a prince's chapel;
now, a musical establishment, usually orchestral. Grove.

KAPELLMEISTER
Ka*pell"meis`ter, n. Etym: [G.] (Mus.)

Defn: See Capellmeister.

KAPIA
Ka"pi*a, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Min.)

Defn: The fossil resin of the kauri tree of New Zealand.

KAPNOMAR
Kap"no*mar, n. Chem.

Defn: ) See Capnomor.

KAPOK
Ka*pok", n. [Prob. fr. the native name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A silky wool derived from the seeds of Ceiba pentandra (syn.
Eriodendron anfractuosum), a bombaceous tree of the East and West
Indies.

KARAGANE
Kar"a*gane, n. Etym: [Russ. karagan'] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of gray fox found in Russia.

KARAISM
Ka"ra*ism, n.

Defn: Doctrines of the Karaites.

KARAITE
Ka"ra*ite, n. Etym: [Heb.qara to read.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A sect of Jews who adhere closely to the letter of the
Scriptures, rejecting the oral law, and allowing the Talmud no
binding authority; -- opposed to the Rabbinists.

KARAKUL
Ka`ra*kul", n. [Russ. karakul' curly fleece of Bokhara and Khiva
sheep.]

Defn: Astrakhan, esp. in fine grades. Cf. Caracul.

KARATAS
Ka*ra"tas, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A West Indian plant of the Pineapple family (Nidularium
Karatas).

KARMA
Kar"ma, n. Etym: [Skr.] (Buddhism)

Defn: One's acts considered as fixing one's lot in the future
existence. (Theos.) The doctrine of fate as the inflexible result of
cause and effect; the theory of inevitable consequence.

KARMATHIAN
Kar*ma"thi*an, n.

Defn: One of a Mohammedan sect founded in the ninth century by
Karmat.

KARN
Karn, n. Etym: [Cornish. Cf. Cairn.] (Mining)

Defn: A pile of rocks; sometimes, the solid rock. See Cairn.

KAROB
Ka"rob, n. Etym: [Cf. Carat.]

Defn: The twenty-fourth part of a grain; -- a weight used by
goldsmiths. Crabb.

KAROSS
Ka*ross", n. [Native name.]

Defn: A native garment or rug of skin sewed together in the form of a
square. [South Africa]

The wants of a native . . . are confined to a kaross (skin cloak) or
some pieces of cotton cloth.
James Bryce.

KARPHOLITE
Kar"pho*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. carpholithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A fibrous mineral occurring in tufts of a straw-yellow color.
It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and manganese.

KARROO
Kar*roo", n.; pl. Karroos (.

Defn: One of the dry table-lands of South Africa, which often rise
terracelike to considerable elevations. [Also karoo.] The Great
Karroo, or The Karroo, a vast plateau, in Cape Colony, stretching
through five degrees of longitude, at an elevation of about 3,000
feet.

KARSTENITE
Kar"sten*ite, n.

Defn: Same as Anhydrite.

KARVEL
Kar"vel, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Carvel, and Caravel.

KARYOKINESIS
Kar"y*o*ki*ne`sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The indirect division of cells in which, prior to division of
the cell protoplasm, complicated changes take place in the nucleus,
attended with movement of the nuclear fibrils; -- opposed to
karyostenosis. The nucleus becomes enlarged and convoluted, and
finally the threads are separated into two groups which ultimately
become disconnected and constitute the daughter nuclei. Called also
mitosis. See Cell development, under Cell.

KARYOKINETIC
Kar`y*o*ki*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to karyokinesis; as, karyokinetic changes of
cell division.

KARYOMITON
Kar`y*om"i*ton, n. Etym: [NL., Gr. ( (Biol.)

Defn: The reticular network of fine fibers, of which the nucleus of a
cell is in part composed; -- in opposition to kytomiton, or the
network in the body of the cell. W. Flemming.

KARYOPLASMA
Kar`y*o*plas"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. a num + (Biol.)

Defn: The protoplasmic substance of the nucleus of a cell:
nucleoplasm; -- in opposition to kytoplasma, the protoplasm of the
cell.

KARYOSTENOSIS
Kar`y*o*ste*no"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Direct cell division (in which there is first a simple division
of the nucleus, without any changes in its structure, followed by
division of the protoplasm of the karyostenotic mode of nuclear
division.

KARYOSTENOTIC
Kar`y*o*ste*not"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or connected with, karyostenosis; as, the
karyostenotic mode of nuclear division.

KASACK
Ka*sack", n. (Ethnol.)

Defn: Same as Cossack.

KAT
Kat, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An Arabian shrub Catha edulis) the leaves of which are used as
tea by the Arabs.

KATABOLIC
Kat`a*bol"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to katabolism; as, katabolic processes, which
give rise to substances (katastates) of decreasing complexity and
increasing stability.

KATABOLISM
Ka*tab"o*lism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Destructive or downward metabolism; regressive metamorphism; --
opposed to anabolism. See Disassimilation.

KATASTATE
Kat"a*state, n. Etym: [Gr. (

Defn: (Physiol.) A substance formed by a katabolic process; --
opposed to anastate. See Katabolic.

KATE
Kate, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The brambling finch.

KATHETAL
Kath"e*tal, a. Etym: [Gr. Cathetus.] (Math.)

Defn: Making a right angle; perpendicular, as two lines or two sides
of a triangle, which include a right angle.

KATHETOMETER
Kath`e*tom"e*ter, n.

Defn: Same as Cathetometer.

KATTIMUNDOO
Kat`ti*mun"doo, n.

Defn: A caoutchouc like substance obtained from the milky juice of
the East Indian Euphorbia Kattimundoo. It is used as a cement.

KATYDID
Ka"ty*did`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, green, arboreal, orthopterous insect (Cyrtophyllus
concavus) of the family Locustidæ, common in the United States. The
males have stridulating organs at the bases of the front wings.
During the summer and autumn, in the evening, the males make a
peculiar, loud, shrill sound, resembling the combination Katy-did,
whence the name.

KAURI
Ka"u*ri, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A lofty coniferous tree of New Zealand Agathis, or Dammara,
australis), furnishing valuable timber and yielding one kind of
dammar resin. [Written also kaudi, cowdie, and cowrie.]

KAURI RESIN; KAURI GUM; KAURI COPAL
Kauri resin, gum, or copal.

Defn: A resinous product of the kauri, found in the form of yellow or
brown lumps in the ground where the trees have grown. It is used for
making varnish, and as a substitute for amber.

KAVA
Ka"va, n. Etym: [Polynesian.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Macropiper (M. methysticum), the long pepper, from
the root of which an intoxicating beverage is made by the
Polynesians, by a process of mastication; also, the beverage itself.
[Written also kawa, kava, and ava.]

KAVASS
Ka*vass", n.; pl. Kavasses Etym: [Turk. kavvas]

Defn: An armed constable; also, a government servant or courier.
[Turkey]

KAW
Kaw, v. i. & n.

Defn: See Caw.

KAWAKA
Ka*wa"ka, n. (Bot.)

Defn: a New Zealand tree, the Cypress cedar (Libocedrus Doniana),
having a valuable, fine-grained, reddish wood.

KAWN
Kawn, n.

Defn: A inn. [Turkey] See Khan.

KAYAK
Kay"ak, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A light canoe, made of skins stretched over a frame, and
usually capable of carrying but one person, who sits amidships and
uses a double-bladed paddle. It is peculiar to the Eskimos and other
Arctic tribes.

KAYAKER
Kay"ak*er, n.

Defn: One who uses a kayak.

KAYKO
Kay"ko, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dog salmon.

KAYLES
Kayles, n. pl. Etym: [Akin to Dan. kegle, Sw. kegla, D. & G. kegel,
OHG. kegil, whence F. quille.]

Defn: A game; ninepins. [Prov Eng.] Carew.

KAYNARD
Kay"nard, n. Etym: [F. cagnard.]

Defn: A lazy or cowardly person; a rascal. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KAZOO
Ka*zoo", n. [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A kind of toy or rude musical instrument, as a tube inside of
which is a stretched string made to vibrate by singing or humming
into the tube.

KEA
Ke"a (ka"a; colloq. ke"a), n. [Maori.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large New Zealand parrot (Nestor notabilis), notorious for
having acquired the habit of killing sheep; -- called also mountain
parrot.

KECK
Keck, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kecked; p. pr. & vb. n. Kecking.] Etym:
[Cf. dial. G. köcken, köken.]

Defn: To heave or to retch, as in an effort to vomit. [R.] Swift.

KECK
Keck, n.

Defn: An effort to vomit; queasiness. [R.]

KECKLE
Kec"kle, v. i. & n.

Defn: See Keck, v. i. & n.

KECKLE
Kec"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Keckled; p. pr. & vb. n. Keckling.]
(Naut.)

Defn: To wind old rope around, as a cable, to preserve its surface
from being fretted, or to wind iron chains around, to defend from the
friction of a rocky bottom, or from the ice. Totten.

KECKLING
Kec"kling, n.

Defn: Old rope or iron chains wound around a cable. See Keckle, v. t.

KECKLISH
Kec"klish, a. Etym: [From keck, keckle.]

Defn: Inclined to vomit; squeamish. [R.] Holland.

KECKSY
Keck"sy, n.; pl. Kecksies (-sîz). Etym: [Properly pl. of kex. See
Kex.] (Bot.)

Defn: The hollow stalk of an umbelliferous plant, such as the cow
parsnip or the hemlock. [Written also kex, and in pl., kecks, kaxes.]
Nothing teems But hateful docks, rough thistles, kecksies, burs.
Shak.

KECKY
Keck"y, a.

Defn: Resembling a kecksy. Grew.

KEDDAH
Ked"dah, n. [Malay kedah, fr. Ar. qadah hole.]

Defn: An inclosure constructed to entrap wild elephants; an elephant
trap. [India]

KEDGE
Kedge, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kedged; p. pr. & vb. n. Kedging.] Etym:
[Cf. dial. Sw. keka to tug, to drag one's self slowly forward; or
perh. fr. ked, and kedge, n., for ked anchor, named from the ked or
cask fastened to the anchor to show where it lies.] (Naut.)

Defn: To move (a vessel) by carrying out a kedge in a boat, dropping
it overboard, and hauling the vessel up to it.

KEDGE
Kedge, n. Etym: [See Kedge, v. t.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small anchor used whenever a large one can be dispensed
witch. See Kedge, v. t., and Anchor, n.

KEDGER
Kedg"er n. (Naut.)

Defn: A small anchor; a kedge.

KEDLOCK
Ked"lock, n. Etym: [Cf. dial. G.köddik, küdik, kettich, keek, Dan.
kidike, E. charlock, and AS. cedelc the herb mercury.] (Bot.)

Defn: See Charlock.

KEE
Kee, n. pl. of Cow. Etym: [AS. c, pl. of c cow. See Kine.]

Defn: See Kie, Ky, and Kine. [Prov. Eng.] Gay.

KEECH
Keech, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. keech a cake.]

Defn: A mass or lump of fat rolled up by the butcher. [Obs.] Shak.

KEEL
Keel, v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. c to cool, fr. c cool. See Cool.]

Defn: To cool; to akin or stir [Obs.]
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot. Shak.

KEEL
Keel, n.

Defn: A brewer's cooling vat; a keelfat.

KEEL
Keel, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. ceól ship; akin to D. & G. kiel keel, OHG.
chiol ship, Icel. kj, and perh. to Gr. gla ball, round water vessel.
But the meaning of the English word seems to come from Icel. kjölr
keel, akin to Sw. köl, Dan. kjöl.]

1. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A longitudinal timber, or series of timbers scarfed together,
extending from stem to stern along the bottom of a vessel. It is the
principal timber of the vessel, and, by means of the ribs attached on
each side, supports the vessel's frame. In an iron vessel, a
combination of plates supplies the place of the keel of a wooden
ship. See Illust. of Keelson.

2. Fig.: The whole ship.

3. A barge or lighter, used on the Type for carrying coal from
Newcastle; also, a barge load of coal, twentyone tons, four cwt.
[Eng.]

4. (Bot.)

Defn: The two lowest petals of the corolla of a papilionaceous
flower, united and inclosing the stamens and pistil; a carina. See
Carina.

5. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: A projecting ridge along the middle of a flat or curved
surface. Bilge keel (Naut.), a keel peculiar to ironclad vessels,
extending only a portion of the length of the vessel under the
bilges. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
 -- False keel. See under False.
 -- Keel boat. (a) A covered freight boat, with a keel, but no sails,
used on Western rivers. [U. S.] (b) A low, flat-bottomed freight
boat. See Keel, n., 3.
 -- Keel piece, one of the timbers or sections of which a keel is
composed. On even keel, in a level or horizontal position, so that
the draught of water at the stern and the bow is the same. Ham. Nav.
Encyc.

KEEL
Keel, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Keeled; p. pr. & vb. n. Keeling.]

1. To traverse with a keel; to navigate.

2. To turn up the keel; to show the bottom. To keel over, to upset;
to capsize. [Colloq.]

KEELAGE
Keel"age, n. Etym: [Cf. F. guillage, fr. guille keel; of German or
Scand origin. See 3d Keel.]

Defn: The right of demanding a duty or toll for a ship entering a
port; also, the duty or toll. Bouvier. Wharton.

KEELED
Keeled, a.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Keel-shaped; having a longitudinal prominence on the back; as,
a keeled leaf.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a median ridge; carinate; as, a keeled scale.

KEELER
Keel"er, n. Etym: [See 3d Keel.]

1. One employed in managing a Newcastle keel; -- called also keelman.

2. A small or shallow tub; esp., one used for holding materials for
calking ships, or one used for washing dishes, etc.

KEELFAT
Keel"fat`, n. Etym: [Keel to cool + fat a large tub, a vat.]
(Brewing)

Defn: A cooler; a vat for cooling wort, etc. [Written also keelvat.]
Johnson.

KEELHAUL
Keel"haul`, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Keelhauled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Keelhauling.] Etym: [3d keel + haul: cf. LG. & D. kielhalen, G.
kielholen. ] [Written also keelhale.] (Naut.)

Defn: To haul under the keel of a ship, by ropes attached to the
yardarms on each side. It was formerly practiced as a punishment in
the Dutch and English navies. Totten.

KEELING
Kee"ling, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. keila, Sw. kolja, Dan. kulle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cod.

KEELIVINE
Kee"li*vine, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. cil ruddle.]

Defn: A pencil of black or red lead; -- called also keelyvine pen.
[Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

KEELMAN
Keel"man, n.; pl. -men (.

Defn: See Keeler,

1.

KEELRAKE
Keel"rake`, v. t. (Naut.)

Defn: Same as Keelhaul.

KEELS
Keels, n. pl.

Defn: Ninepins. See Kayles.

KEELSON
Keel"son, n. Etym: [Akin to Sw. kölsvin, Dan. kjölsviin, G.
kielschwein; apparently compounded of the words keel and swine; but
cf. Norweg. kjölsvill, where svill is akin to E. sill, n. ]
(Shipbuilding)

Defn: A piece of timber in a ship laid on the middle of the floor
timbers over the keel, and binding the floor timbers to the keel; in
iron vessels, a structure of plates, situated like the keelson of a
timber ship. Cross keelson, a similar structure lying athwart the
main keelson, to support the engines and boilers.

KEELVAT
Keel"vat`, n.

Defn: See Keelfat.

KEEN
Keen, a. [Compar. Keener; superl. Keenest.] Etym: [OE. kene sharp,
bold, AS.c bold; akin to D. koen, OHG. kuoni, G. kühn, OSw. kyn, kön,
Icel. kænn, for koenn wise; perh. akin to E. ken, can to be able.

1. Sharp; having a fine edge or point; as, a keen razor, or a razor
with a keen edge.
A bow he bare and arwes [arrows] bright and kene. Chaucer.
That my keen knife see not the wound it makes. Shak.

2. Acute of mind; sharp; penetrating; having or expressing mental
acuteness; as, a man of keen understanding; a keen look; keen
features.
To make our wits more keen. Shak.
Before the keen inquiry of her thought. Cowper.

3. Bitter; piercing; acrimonious; cutting; stinging; severe; as, keen
satire or sarcasm.
Good father cardinal, cry thou amen To my keen curses. Shak.

4. Piercing; penetrating; cutting; sharp; -- applied to cold, wind,
etc, ; as, a keen wind; the cold is very keen.
Breasts the keen air, and carols as he goes. Goldsmith.

5. Eager; vehement; fierce; as, a keen appetite. "Of full kene will."
Piers Plowman.
So keen and greedy to confound a man. Shak.

Note: Keen is often used in the composition of words, most of which
are of obvious signification; as, keen-edged, keen-eyed, keen-
sighted, keen-witted, etc.

Syn.
 -- Prompt; eager; ardent; sharp; acute; cutting; penetrating;
biting; severe; sarcastic; satirical; piercing; shrewd.

KEEN
Keen, v. t.

Defn: To sharpen; to make cold. [R.]
Cold winter keens the brightening flood. Thomson.

KEEN
Keen, n. Etym: [Ir. caoine.]

Defn: A prolonged wail for a deceased person. Cf. Coranach. [Ireland]
Froude.

KEEN
Keen, v. i.

Defn: To wail as a keener does. [Ireland]

KEENER
Keen"er, n.

Defn: A professional mourner who wails at a funeral. [Ireland]

KEENLY
Keen"ly, adv.

Defn: In a keen manner.

KEENNESS
Keen"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being keen.

KEEP
Keep, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kept; p. pr. & vb. n. Keeping.] Etym: [OE.
k, AS.c to keep, regard, desire, await, take, betake; cf. AS.
copenere lover, OE. copnien to desire.]

1. To care; to desire. [Obs.]
I kepe not of armes for to yelp [boast]. Chaucer.

2. To hold; to restrain from departure or removal; not to let go of;
to retain in one's power or possession; not to lose; to retain; to
detain.
If we lose the field, We can not keep the town. Shak.
That I may know what keeps me here with you. Dryden.
If we would weigh and keep in our minds what we are considering, that
would instruct us. Locke.

3. To cause to remain in a given situation or condition; to maintain
unchanged; to hold or preserve in any state or tenor.
His loyalty he kept, his love, his zeal. Milton.
Keep a stiff rein, and move but gently on. Addison.

Note: In this sense it is often used with prepositions and adverbs,
as to keep away, to keep down, to keep from, to keep in, out, or off,
etc. "To keep off impertinence and solicitation from his superior."
Addison.

4. To have in custody; to have in some place for preservation; to
take charge of.
The crown of Stephanus, first king of Hungary, was always kept in the
castle of Vicegrade. Knolles.

5. To preserve from danger, harm, or loss; to guard.
Behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee. Gen. xxviii. 15.

6. To preserve from discovery or publicity; not to communicate,
reveal, or betray, as a secret.
Great are thy virtues . . . though kept from man. Milton.

7. To attend upon; to have the care of; to tend.
And the Lord God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden,
to dress it and to keep it. Gen. ii. 15.
In her girlish age, she kept sheep on the moor. Carew.

8. To record transactions, accounts, or events in; as, to keep books,
a journal, etc. ; also, to enter (as accounts, records, etc. ) in a
book.

9. To maintain, as an establishment, institution, or the like; to
conduct; to manage; as, to keep store.
Like a pedant that keeps a school. Shak.
Every one of them kept house by himself. Hayward.

10. To supply with necessaries of life; to entertain; as, to keep
boarders.

11. To have in one's service; to have and maintain, as an assistant,
a servant, a mistress, a horse, etc.
I keep but three men and a boy. Shak.

12. To have habitually in stock for sale.

13. To continue in, as a course or mode of action; not to intermit or
fall from; to hold to; to maintain; as, to keep silence; to keep
one's word; to keep possession.
Both day and night did we keep company. Shak.
Within this portal as I kept my watch. Smollett.

14. To observe; to adhere to; to fulfill; not to swerve from or
violate; to practice or perform, as duty; not to neglect; to be
faithful to.
I have kept the faith. 2 Tim. iv. 7.
Him whom to love is to obey, and keep His great command. Milton.

15. To confine one's self to; not to quit; to remain in; as, to keep
one's house, room, bed, etc. ; hence, to haunt; to frequent. Shak.
'Tis hallowed ground; Fairies, and fawns, and satyrs do it keep. J.
Fletcher.

16. To observe duty, as a festival, etc. ; to celebrate; to
solemnize; as, to keep a feast.
I went with them to the house of God . . . with a multitude that kept
holyday. Ps. xlii. 4.
To keep at arm's length. See under Arm, n.
 -- To keep back. (a) To reserve; to withhold. "I will keep nothing
back from you." Jer. xlii. 4. (b) To restrain; to hold back. "Keep
back thy servant also from presumptuous sins." Ps. xix. 13.
 -- To keep company with. (a) To frequent the society of; to
associate with; as, let youth keep company with the wise and good.
(b) To accompany; to go with; as, to keep company with one on a
voyage; also, to pay court to, or accept attentions from, with a view
to marriage. [Colloq.] -- To keep counsel. See under Counsel, n.
 -- To keep down. (a) To hold in subjection; to restrain; to hinder.
(b) (Fine Arts) To subdue in tint or tone, as a portion of a picture,
so that the spectator's attention may not be diverted from the more
important parts of the work.
 -- To keep good (or bad) hours, to be customarily early (or late) in
returning home or in retiring to rest.
 -- To keep house. (a) To occupy a separate house or establishment,
as with one's family, as distinguished from boarding; to manage
domestic affairs. (b) (Eng. Bankrupt Law) To seclude one's self in
one's house in order to evade the demands of creditors.
 -- To keep one's hand in, to keep in practice.
 -- To keep open house, to be hospitable.
 -- To keep the peace (Law), to avoid or to prevent a breach of the
peace.
 -- To keep school, to govern, manage and instruct or teach a school,
as a preceptor.
 -- To keep a stiff upper lip, to keep up one's courage. [Slang] --
To keep term. (a) (Eng. Universities) To reside during a term. (b)
(Inns of Court) To eat a sufficient number of dinners in hall to make
the term count for the purpose of being called to the bar. [Eng.]
Mozley & W.
 -- To keep touch. See under Touch, n.
 -- To keep under, to hold in subjection; hence, to oppress.
 -- To keep up. (a) To maintain; to prevent from falling or
diminution; as, to keep up the price of goods; to keep up one's
credit. (b) To maintain; to continue; to prevent from ceasing. "In
joy, that which keeps up the action is the desire to continue it."
Locke.

Syn.
 -- To retain; detain; reserve; preserve; hold; restrain; maintain;
sustain; support; withhold.
 -- To Keep. Retain, Preserve. Keep is the generic term, and is often
used where retain or preserve would too much restrict the meaning;
as, to keep silence, etc. Retain denotes that we keep or hold things,
as against influences which might deprive us of them, or reasons
which might lead us to give them up; as, to retain vivacity in old
age; to retain counsel in a lawsuit; to retain one's servant after a
reverse of fortune. Preserve denotes that we keep a thing against
agencies which might lead to its being destroyed or broken in upon;
as, to preserve one's health; to preserve appearances.

KEEP
Keep, v. i.

1. To remain in any position or state; to continue; to abide; to
stay; as, to keep at a distance; to keep aloft; to keep near; to keep
in the house; to keep before or behind; to keep in favor; to keep out
of company, or out reach.

2. To last; to endure; to remain unimpaired.
If the malt be not thoroughly dried, the ale it makes will not keep.
Mortimer.

3. To reside for a time; to lodge; to dwell. [Now disused except
locally or colloquially.]
Knock at his study, where, they say, he keeps. Shak.

4. To take care; to be solicitous; to watch. [Obs.]
Keep that the lusts choke not the word of God that is in us. Tyndale.

5. To be in session; as, school keeps to-day. [Colloq.] To keep from,
to abstain or refrain from.
 -- To keep in with, to keep on good terms with; as, to keep in with
an opponent.
 -- To keep on, to go forward; to proceed; to continue to advance.
 -- To keep to, to adhere strictly to; not to neglect or deviate
from; as, to keep to old customs; to keep to a rule; to keep to one's
word or promise.
 -- To keep up, to remain unsubdued; also, not to be confined to
one's bed.

KEEP
Keep, n.

1. The act or office of keeping; custody; guard; care; heed; charge.
Chaucer.
Pan, thou god of shepherds all, Which of our tender lambkins takest
keep. Spenser.

2. The state of being kept; hence, the resulting condition; case; as,
to be in good keep.

3. The means or provisions by which one is kept; maintenance;
support; as, the keep of a horse.
Grass equal to the keep of seven cows. Carlyle.
I performed some services to the college in return for my keep. T.
Hughes.

4. That which keeps or protects; a stronghold; a fortress; a castle;
specifically, the strongest and securest part of a castle, often used
as a place of residence by the lord of the castle, especially during
a siege; the donjon. See Illust. of Castle.
The prison strong, Within whose keep the captive knights were laid.
Dryden.
The lower chambers of those gloomy keeps. Hallam.
I think . . . the keep, or principal part of a castle, was so called
because the lord and his domestic circle kept, abode, or lived there.
M. A. Lower.

5. That which is kept in charge; a charge. [Obs.]
Often he used of his keep A sacrifice to bring. Spenser.

6. (Mach.)

Defn: A cap for retaining anything, as a journal box, in place. To
take keep, to take care; to heed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KEEPER
Keep"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, keeps; one who, or that which, holds or
has possession of anything.

2. One who retains in custody; one who has the care of a prison and
the charge of prisoners.

3. One who has the care, custody, or superintendence of anything; as,
the keeper of a park, a pound, of sheep, of a gate, etc. ; the keeper
of attached property; hence, one who saves from harm; a defender; a
preserver.
The Lord is thy keeper. Ps. cxxi. 6.

4. One who remains or keeps in a place or position.
Discreet; chaste; keepers at home. Titus ii. 5.

5. A ring, strap, clamp, or any device for holding an object in
place; as: (a) The box on a door jamb into which the bolt of a lock
protrudes, when shot. (b) A ring serving to keep another ring on the
finger. (c) A loop near the buckle of a strap to receive the end of
the strap.

6. A fruit that keeps well; as, the Roxbury Russet is a good keeper.
Downing. Keeper of the forest (O. Eng. Law), an officer who had the
principal government of all things relating to the forest.
 -- Keeper of the great seal, a high officer of state, who has
custody of the great seal. The office is now united with that of lord
chancellor. [Eng.] -- Keeper of the King's conscience, the lord
chancellor; -- a name given when the chancellor was an ecclesiastic.
[Eng.] -- Keeper of the privy seal (styled also lord privy seal), a
high officer of state, through whose hands pass all charters,
pardons, etc., before they come to the great seal. He is a privy
councillor, and was formerly called clerk of the privy seal. [Eng.] -
- Keeper of a magnet, a piece of iron which connects the two poles,
for the purpose of keeping the magnetic power undiminished; an
armature.

KEEPERSHIP
Keep"er*ship, n.

Defn: The office or position of a keeper. Carew.

KEEPING
Keep"ing, n.

1. A holding; restraint; custody; guard; charge; care; preservation.
His happiness is in his own keeping. South.

2. Maintenance; support; provision; feed; as, the cattle have good
keeping.
The work of many hands, which earns my keeping. Milton.

3. Conformity; congruity; harmony; consistency; as, these subjects
are in keeping with each other.

4. (Paint.)

Defn: Harmony or correspondence between the different parts of a work
of art; as, the foreground of this painting is not in keeping.
Keeping room, a family sitting room. [New Eng. & Prov. Eng.]

Syn.
 -- Care; guardianship; custody; possession.

KEEPSAKE
Keep"sake`, n.

Defn: Anything kept, or given to be kept, for the sake of the giver;
a token of friendship.

KEESH
Keesh, n.

Defn: See Kish.

KEEVE
Keeve, n. Etym: [AS. c, fr. L. cupa a tub, cask; also, F. cuve. Cf.
Kive, Coop.]

1. (Brewing)

Defn: A vat or tub in which the mash is made; a mash tub. Ure.

2. (Bleaching)

Defn: A bleaching vat; a kier.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A large vat used in dressing ores.

KEEVE
Keeve, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Keeved; p. pr. & vb. n. Keeving.]

1. To set in a keeve, or tub, for fermentation.

2. To heave; to tilt, as a cart. [Prov. Eng.]

KEEVER
Keev"er, n.

Defn: See Keeve, n.

KEFFE-KIL
Kef"fe-kil, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Kiefekil.

KEFIR
Kef"ir, n.

Defn: An effervescent liquor like kumiss, made from fermented milk,
used as a food and as a medicine in the northern Caucasus. --
Ke*fir"ic (#), a.

KEFIR GRAINS
Kefir grains.

Defn: Small hard yellowish aggregations found in the Caucasus region,
and containing various yeasts and bacteria. They are used as a
ferment in preparing kefir.

KEG
Keg, n. Etym: [Earlier cag, Icel. kaggi; akin to Sw. kagge.]

Defn: A small cask or barrel.

KEILHAUITE
Keil"hauite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a brownish black color, related to titanite in
form. It consists chiefly of silica, titanium dioxide, lime, and
yttria.

KEIR
Keir, n.

Defn: See Kier.

KEITLOA
Keit*lo"a, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A black, two-horned, African rhinoceros (Atelodus keitloa). It
has the posterior horn about as long as the anterior one, or even
longer.

KELD
Keld, a. Etym: [Cf. Cavl.]

Defn: Having a kell or covering; webbed. [Obs.] Drayton.

KELE
Kele, v. t. Etym: [See Keel to cool.]

Defn: To cool. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KELL
Kell, n.

Defn: A kiln. [Obs.]

KELL
Kell, n. Etym: [A modification of kale.]

Defn: A sort of pottage; kale. See Kale, 2. Ainsworth.

KELL
Kell, n. Etym: [Cf. Caul.]

1. The caul; that which covers or envelops as a caul; a net; a fold;
a film. [Obs.]
I'll have him cut to the kell. Beau. & Fl.

2. The cocoon or chrysalis of an insect. B. Jonson.

KELOID
Ke"loid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Med.)

Defn: Applied to a variety of tumor forming hard, flat, irregular
excrescences upon the skin.
 -- n.

Defn: A keloid tumor.

KELOTOMY
Ke*lot"o*my, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Celotomy.

KELP
Kelp, n. Etym: [Formerly kilpe; of unknown origin.]

1. The calcined ashes of seaweed, -- formerly much used in the
manufacture of glass, now used in the manufacture of iodine.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Any large blackish seaweed.

Note: Laminaria is the common kelp of Great Britain; Macrocystis
pyrifera and Nereocystis Lutkeana are the great kelps of the Pacific
Ocean. Kelp crab (Zoöl.), a California spider crab (Epialtus
productus), found among seaweeds, which it resembles in color.
 -- Kelp salmon (Zoöl.), a serranoid food fish (Serranus clathratus)
of California. See Cabrilla.

KELPFISH
Kelp"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small California food fish (Heterostichus rostratus), living
among kelp. The name is also applied to species of the genus
Platyglossus.

KELPIE; KELPY
Kel"pie, Kel"py, n.; pl. Kelpies. Etym: [Cf. Gael. cailpeach,
calpach, colpach, a heifer, steer, colt, colpa a cow or horse.]
(Scotch Myth.)

Defn: An imaginary spirit of the waters, horselike in form, vulgarly
believed to warn, by preternatural noises and lights, those who are
to be drowned. Jamieson.

KELPWARE
Kelp"ware`, n.

Defn: Same as Kelp, 2.

KELSON
Kel"son, n.

Defn: See Keelson. Sir W. Raleigh.

KELT
Kelt, n.

Defn: See Kilt, n. Jamieson.

KELT
Kelt, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kult quilt.]

Defn: Cloth with the nap, generally of native black wool. [Scot.]
Jamieson.

KELT
Kelt, n.

Defn: A salmon after spawning. [Scot.]

KELT
Kelt, n.

Defn: Same as Celt, one of Celtic race.

KELTER
Kel"ter, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. & Ir. cealt clothes, Gael. cealltair
spear, castle, cause, Prov. E. kilter tool, instrument. Cf. Kilt.]

Defn: Regular order or proper condition. [Written also kilter.]
[Colloq.]
If the organs of prayer be out of kelter or out of tune, how can we
pray Barrow.

KELTIC
Kelt"ic, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Celtic, a. & n.

KEMB
Kemb, n. t. [imp. & p. p. Kembed or Kempt (p. pr. & vb. n. Kembing.]
Etym: [OE.kemben, AS. cemban, fr. camb comb.]

Defn: To comb. [Obs.]
His longe hair was kembed behind his back. Chaucer.

KEMELIN
Kem"e*lin, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E.kemlin, kimlin, kimmel, a salting
tub, any tub, kembing a brewing tub, G. kumme bowl, basin, W. cwmman
a tub, brewing tub.]

Defn: A tub; a brewer's vessel. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KEMP; KEMPTY
Kemp, Kemp"ty, n.

Defn: Coarse, rough hair wool or fur, injuring its quality.

KEMPE
Kem"pe, a.

Defn: Rough; shaggy. [Obs.] "Kempe hairs." Chaucer.

KEMPS
Kemps, n. pl. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.)

Defn: The long flower stems of the ribwort plantain (Plantago
Lanceolata). Dr. Prior.

KEMPT
Kempt,

Defn: p. p. of Kemb. B. Jonson.

KEN
Ken, n. Etym: [Perh. from kennel.]

Defn: A house; esp., one which is a resort for thieves. [Slang, Eng.]

KEN
Ken, n. t. [imp. & p. p. Kenned; p. pr. & vb. n. Kenning.] Etym:
[OE.kennen to teach, make known, know, AS. cennan to make known,
proclaim, or rather from the related Icel. kenna to know; akin to D.
& G. kennen to know, Goth. kannjan to make known; orig., a causative
corresponding to AS. cunnan to know, Goth. kunnan. sq. root45. See
Can to be able, Know.]

1. To know; to understand; to take cognizance of. [Archaic or Scot.]

2. To recognize; to descry; to discern. [Archaic or Scot.] "We ken
them from afar." Addison
'T is he. I ken the manner of his gait. Shak.

KEN
Ken, v. i.

Defn: To look around. [Obs.] Burton.

KEN
Ken, n.

Defn: Cognizance; view; especially, reach of sight or knowledge.
"Beyond his ken." Longfellow.
Above the reach and ken of a mortal apprehension. South.
It was relief to quit the ken And the inquiring looks of men. Trench.

KENDAL GREEN; KENDAL
Ken"dal green`, or; Ken"dal.

Defn: A cloth colored green by dye obtained from the woad-waxen,
formerly used by Flemish weavers at Kendal, in Westmoreland, England.
J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants).
How couldst thou know these men in Kendal green Shak.

KENNEL
Ken"nel, n. Etym: [See Channel, Canal.]

Defn: The water course of a street; a little canal or channel; a
gutter; also, a puddle. Bp. Hall.

KENNEL
Ken"nel, n. Etym: [OE.kenel, (assumed) OF. kenil, F. chenil, LL.
canile, fr. L. canis a dog. Cf. Canine.]

1. A house for a dog or for dogs, or for a pack of hounds.
A dog sure, if he could speak, had wit enough to describe his kennel.
Sir P. Sidney.

2. A pack of hounds, or a collection of dogs. Shak.

3. The hole of a fox or other beast; a haunt.

KENNEL
Ken"nel, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kenneled or Kennelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Kennelling.]

Defn: To lie or lodge; to dwell, as a dog or a fox.
The dog kenneled in a hollow tree. L'Estrange.

KENNEL
Ken"nel, v. t.

Defn: To put or keep in a kennel. Thomson.

KENNEL COAL
Ken"nel coal`

Defn: . See Cannel coal.

KENNING
Ken"ning, n. Etym: [See Ken, v. t.]

1. Range of sight. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. The limit of vision at sea, being a distance of about twenty
miles.

KENO
Ke"no, n. Etym: [F. quine five winning numbers, fr. L. quini five
each, quinque five. See Five.]

Defn: A gambling game, a variety of the game of lotto, played with
balls or knobs, numbered, and cards also numbered. [U. S.]

KENOGENESIS
Ken`o*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: Modified evolution, in which nonprimitive characters make their
appearance in consequence of a secondary adaptation of the embryo to
the peculiar conditions of its environment; -- distinguished from
palingenesis. [Written also cænogenesis.]

KENOGENETIC
Ken`o*ge*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to kenogenesis; as, kenogenetic processes.
 -- Ken`o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.

KENSPECKLE
Ken"spec`kle, a.

Defn: Having so marked an appearance as easily to be recognized.
[Scot.]

KENT BUGLE
Kent" bu"gle. Etym: [Probably named after a Duke of Kent.] (Mus.)

Defn: A curved bugle, having six finger keys or stops, by means of
which the performer can play upon every key in the musical scale; --
called also keyed bugle, and key bugle. Moore.

KENTLE
Ken"tle, n. Etym: [From Quintal.] (Com.)

Defn: A hundred weight; a quintal.

KENTLEDGE
Kent"ledge, n. Etym: [OF. cant edge, corner, D.kant. See Cant edge,
angle.] (Naut.)

Defn: Pigs of iron used for ballast. [Written also kintlidge.]

KENTUCKY
Ken*tuck"y, n.

Defn: One of the United States. Kentucky blue grass (Bot.), a
valuable pasture and meadow grass (Poa pratensis), found in both
Europe and America. See under Blue grass.
 -- Kentucky coffee tree (Bot.), a tall North American tree
(Gymnocladus Canadensis) with bipinnate leaves. It produces large
woody pods containing a few seeds which have been used as a
substitute for coffee. The timber is a very valuable.

KEPHALIN
Keph"a*lin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: One of a group of nitrogenous phosphorized principles, supposed
by Thudichum to exist in brain tissue.

KEPI
Kep"i, n. [F. képi, of G. origin.]

Defn: A military cap having a close-fitting band, a round flat top
sloping toward the front, and a visor. As originally worn by the
French in Algeria about 1830 it was tall and stiff with a straight
visor. It is now lower, has a curved visor, and is frequently soft.

KEPT
Kept, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Keep. Kept mistress, a concubine; a woman supported by a man
as his paramour.

KEPVISELOHAZ
Kép"vi*se*lö*ház`, n. [Hung., fr. képviselö representative + ház
house.] (Hungary)

Defn: See Legislature.

KERAMIC
Ke*ram"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Ceramic.

KERAMICS
Ke*ram"ics, n.

Defn: Same as Ceramics.

KERAMOGRAPHIC
Ker`a*mo*graph"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. graph + ic.]

Defn: Suitable to be written upon; capable of being written upon, as
a slate; -- said especially of a certain kind of globe. Scudamore.

KERANA
Ke*ra"na, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A kind of long trumpet, used among the Persians. Moore (Encyc.
of Music).

KERARGYRITE
Ke*rar"gy*rite, n.

Defn: See Cerargyrite.

KERASIN
Ker"a*sin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance free from phosphorus, supposed to be
present in the brain; a body closely related to cerebrin.

KERASINE
Ker"a*sine, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Resembling horn; horny; corneous.

KERATIN
Ker"a*tin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance, or mixture of substances, containing
sulphur in a loose state of combination, and forming the chemical
basis of epidermal tissues, such as horn, hair, feathers, and the
like. It is an insoluble substance, and, unlike elastin, is not
dissolved even by gastric or pancreatic juice. By decomposition with
sulphuric acid it yields leucin and tyrosin, as does albumin. Called
also epidermose.

KERATITIS
Ker`a*ti"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the cornea.

KERATODE
Ker"a*tode, n.

Defn: See Keratose.

KERATOGENOUS
Ker`a*tog"e*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. -genous.]

Defn: Producing horn; as, the keratogenous membrane within the horny
hoof of the horse.

KERATOIDEA
Ker`a*toi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Keratosa.

KERATOME
Ker"a*tome, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for dividing the cornea in operations for
cataract.

KERATONYXIS
Ker`a*to*nyx"is, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The operation of removing a cataract by thrusting a needle
through the cornea of the eye, and breaking up the opaque mass.

KERATOPHYTE
Ker"a*to*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gorgonian coral having a horny axis.

KERATOSA
Ker`a*to"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of sponges having a skeleton composed of hornlike
fibers. It includes the commercial sponges.

KERATOSE
Ker"a*tose`, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A tough, horny animal substance entering into the composition
of the skeleton of sponges, and other invertebrates; -- called also
keratode.

KERATOSE
Ker"a*tose`, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Containing hornlike fibers or fibers of keratose; belonging to
the Keratosa.

KERAUNOGRAPH
Ke*rau"no*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. graph.]

Defn: A figure or picture impressed by lightning upon the human body
or elsewhere.
 -- Ker`au-nog"ra-phy, n.

KERB
Kerb, n.

Defn: See Curb.

KERBSTONE
Kerb"stone`, n.

Defn: See Curbstone.

KERCHER
Ker"cher, n.

Defn: A kerchief. [Obs.]
He became . . . white as a kercher. Sir T. North.

KERCHERED
Ker"chered, a.

Defn: Covered, or bound round, with a kercher. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.

KERCHIEF
Ker"chief, n.; pl. Kerchiefs. Etym: [OE. coverchef, OF. cuevrechief,
couvrechef, F. couvrechef, a head covering, fr. couvrir to cover +
OF. chief head, F. chef. See Cover, Chief, and cf. Curfew.]

1. A square of fine linen worn by women as a covering for the head;
hence, anything similar in form or material, worn for ornament on
other parts of the person; -- mostly used in compounds; as,
neckerchief; breastkerchief; and later, handkerchief.
He might put on a hat, a muffler, and a kerchief, and so escape.
Shak.
Her black hair strained away To a scarlet kerchief caught beneath her
chin. Mrs. Browning.

2. A lady who wears a kerchief. Dryden.

KERCHIEFED; KERCHIEFT
Ker"chiefed, Ker"chieft, a.

Defn: Dressed; hooded; covered; wearing a kerchief. Milton.

KERF
Kerf, n. Etym: [AS. cyrf a cutting off, fr. ceorfan to cut, carve.
See Carve.]

Defn: A notch, channel, or slit made in any material by cutting or
sawing.

KERITE
Ke"rite, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A compound in which tar or asphaltum combined with animal or
vegetable oils is vulcanized by sulphur, the product closely
resembling rubber; -- used principally as an insulating material in
telegraphy. Knight.

KERL
Kerl, n.

Defn: See Carl.

KERMES
Ker"mes, n. Etym: [Ar. & Per. girmiz. See Crimson, and cf. Alkermes.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dried bodies of the females of a scale insect (Coccus
ilicis), allied to the cochineal insect, and found on several species
of oak near the Mediterranean. They are round, about the size of a
pea, contain coloring matter analogous to carmine, and are used in
dyeing. They were anciently thought to be of a vegetable nature, and
were used in medicine. [Written also chermes.]

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A small European evergreen oak (Quercus coccifera) on which the
kermes insect (Coccus ilicis) feeds. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants).
Kermes mineral. (a) (Old Chem.) An artificial amorphous trisulphide
of antimony; -- so called on account of its red color. (b) (Med.
Chem.) A compound of the trioxide and trisulphide of antimony, used
in medicine. This substance occurs in nature as the mineral
kermesite.

KERMESSE
Ker"messe, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Kirmess.

KERN
Kern, n. Etym: [Ir.ceatharnach.Cf. Cateran. ]

1. A light-armed foot soldier of the ancient militia of Ireland and
Scotland; -- distinguished from gallowglass, and often used as a term
of contempt. Macaulay.
Now for our Irish wars; We must supplant those rough, rug-headed
kerns. Shak.

2. Any kind of boor or low-lived person. [Obs.] Blount.

3. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: An idler; a vagabond. Wharton.

KERN
Kern, n. (Type Founding)

Defn: A part of the face of a type which projects beyond the body, or
shank.

KERN
Kern, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kerned; p. pr. & vb. n. Kerning. ] (Type
Founding)

Defn: To form with a kern. See 2d Kern.

KERN
Kern, n. Etym: [See Churn. ]

Defn: A churn. [Prov. Eng.]

KERN
Kern, n. Etym: [AS. cweorn, cwyrn. See Quern. ]

Defn: A hand mill. See Quern. Johnson.

KERN
Kern, v. i. Etym: [Cf. G. kern kernel, grain; akin to E. corn. See
Corn, Kernel. ]

1. To harden, as corn in ripening. [Obs.] Carew.

2. To take the form of kernels; to granulate. [Obs.]
It is observed that rain makes the salt kern. Dampier.

KERN BABY
Kern baby.

Defn: A doll or image decorated with corn (grain) flowers, etc.,
carried in the festivals of a kern, or harvest-home. Called also
harvest queen.

KERNED
Kerned, a. (Print.)

Defn: Having part of the face projecting beyond the body or shank; --
said of type. "In Roman, f and j are the only kerned letters."
MacKellar.

KERNEL
Ker"nel, n. Etym: [OE. kernel, kirnel, curnel, AS.cyrnel, fr. corn
grain. See Corn, and cf. Kern to harden.]

1. The essential part of a seed; all that is within the seed walls;
the edible substance contained in the shell of a nut; hence, anything
included in a shell, husk, or integument; as, the kernel of a nut.
See Illust. of Endocarp.
' A were as good crack a fusty nut with no kernel Shak.

2. A single seed or grain; as, a kernel of corn.

3. A small mass around which other matter is concreted; a nucleus; a
concretion or hard lump in the flesh.

4. The central, substantial or essential part of anything; the gist;
the core; as, the kernel of an argument.

KERNEL
Ker"nel, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kerneled or Kernelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Kerneling or Kernelling.]

Defn: To harden or ripen into kernels; to produce kernels.

KERNELED; KERNELLED
Ker"neled, Ker"nelled, a.

Defn: Having a kernel.

KERNELLY
Ker"nel*ly, a.

Defn: Full of kernels; resembling kernels; of the nature of kernels.
Holland.

KERNISH
Kern"ish, a. Etym: [From Kern a boor.]

Defn: Clownish; booorish. [Obs.] "A petty kernish prince." Milton.

KEROLITE
Ker"o*lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Same as Cerolite.

KEROSENE
Ker"o*sene`, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An oil used for illuminating purposes, formerly obtained from
the distillation of mineral wax, bituminous shale, etc., and hence
called also coal oil. It is now produced in immense quantities,
chiefly by the distillation and purification of petroleum. It
consists chiefly of several hydrocarbons of the methane series.

KERS; KERSE
Kers, Kerse, n.

Defn: A cress. [Obs.] Chaucer. Not worth a kers. See under Cress.

KERSEY
Ker"sey, n.; pl. Kerseys. Etym: [Prob. from the town of Kersey in
Suffolk, Eng.]

Defn: A kind of coarse, woolen cloth, usually ribbed, woven from wool
of long staple.

KERSEYMERE
Ker"sey*mere, n. Etym: [For cassimere, confounded with kersey.]

Defn: See Cassimere.

KERSEYNETTE
Ker`sey*nette", n.

Defn: See Cassinette.

KERSEYS
Ker"seys, n. pl.

Defn: Varieties of kersey; also, trousers made of kersey.

KERVE
Kerve, v. t.

Defn: To carve. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KERVER
Kerv"er, n.

Defn: A carver. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KESAR
Ke"sar, n.

Defn: See Kaiser [Obs.] Spenser.

KESLOP
Kes"lop, n. Etym: [AS.c, or c, milk curdled; cf. G. käselab,
käselippe. See Cheese, and cf.Cheeselep.]

Defn: The stomach of a calf, prepared for rennet. Halliwell.

KESS
Kess, v. t.

Defn: To kiss. [Obs.] Chaucer

KEST
Kest, imp.

Defn: of Cast. [Obs.]

KESTREL
Kes"trel, n. Etym: [See Castrel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, slender European hawk (Falco alaudarius), allied to
the sparrow hawk. Its color is reddish fawn, streaked and spotted
with white and black. Also called windhover and stannel. The name is
also applied to other allied species.

Note: This word is often used in contempt, as of a mean kind of hawk.
"Kites and kestrels have a resemblance with hawks." Bacon.

KET
Ket, n. Etym: [Icel. kjöt flesh; akin to Sw. kött, Dan. kjöd.]

Defn: Carrion; any filth. [Prob. Eng.] Halliwell.

KETA
Ke"ta, n. [Perh. of Amer. Indian origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) of inferior value, which in
the autumn runs up all the larger rivers between San Francisco and
Kamchatka.

KETCH
Ketch, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupted fr. Turk. qaiq : cf. F. caiche. Cf.
Caïque.] (Naut.)

Defn: An almost obsolete form of vessel, with a mainmast and a
mizzenmast, -- usually from one hundred to two hundred and fifty tons
burden. Bomb ketch. See under Bomb.

KETCH
Ketch, n.

Defn: A hangman. See Jack Ketch.

KETCH
Ketch, v. t. Etym: [See Catch.]

Defn: To catch. [Now obs. in spelling, and colloq. in pronunciation.]
To ketch him at a vantage in his snares. Spenser.

KETCHUP
Ketch"up, n.

Defn: A sauce. See Catchup.

KETINE
Ke"tine, n. Etym: [See Ketone.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of organic bases obtained by the reduction of
certain isonitroso compounds of the ketones. In general they are
unstable oily substances having a pungent aromatic odor.

KETMIE
Ket`mie", n. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of certain African species of Hibiscus, cultivated for
the acid of their mucilage. [Written also ketmia.]

KETOL
Ke"tol, n. Etym: [Ketone + indol.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of series of complex nitrogenous substances,
represented by methyl ketol and related to indol. Methyl ketol, a
weak organic base, obtained as a white crystalline substance having
the odor of fæces.

KETONE
Ke"tone, n. Etym: [Cf. Acetone.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a large class of organic substances resembling the
aldehydes, obtained by the distillation of certain salts of organic
acids and consisting of carbonyl (CO) united with two hydrocarbon
radicals. In general the ketones are colorless volatile liquids
having a pungent ethereal odor.

Note: The ketones are named by adding the suffix-one to the stems of
the organic acids from which they are respectively derived; thus,
acetic acid gives acetone; butyric acid, butyrone, etc.

KETONIC
Ke*ton"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, a ketone; as, a ketonic acid.

KETTLE
Ket"tle, n. Etym: [OE. ketel; cf. AS. cetel, cetil, cytel; akin to D.
kjedel, G. kessel, OHG. chezzil, Icel. ketill, SW. kittel, Dan.
kjedel, Goth. katils; all perh. fr. L. catillus, dim. of catinus a
deep vessel, bowl; but cf. also OHG. chezzi kettle, Icel. kati small
ship.]

Defn: A metallic vessel, with a wide mouth, often without a cover,
used for heating and boiling water or other liguids. Kettle pins,
ninepins; skittles. [Obs.] Shelton.
 -- Kettle stitch (Bookbinding), the stitch made in sewing at the
head and tail of a book. Knight.

KETTLEDRUM
Ket"tle*drum`, n.

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A drum made of thin copper in the form of a hemispherical
kettle, with parchment stretched over the mouth of it.

Note: Kettledrums, in pairs, were formerly used in martial music for
cavalry, but are now chiefly confined to orchestras, where they are
called tympani.

2. An informal social party at which a light collation is offered,
held in the afternoon or early evening. Cf. Drum, n., 4 and 5.

KETTLEDRUMMER
Ket"tle*drum`mer, n.

Defn: One who plays on a kettledrum.

KEUPER
Keu"per, n. Etym: [G.] (Geol.)

Defn: The upper division of the European Triassic. See Chart of
Geology.

KEVEL
Kev"el, n. Etym: [Prov. E. kevil, cavel, rod, pole, a large hammer,
horse's bit; cf. Icel. kefli cylinder, a stick, mangle, and Dan.
kievle a roller.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A strong cleat to which large ropes are belayed.

2. A stone mason's hammer. [Written also cavil.] Kevel head (Naut.),
a projecting end of a timber, used as a kevel.

KEVEL; KEVIN
Kev"el, Kev"in, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gazelle.

KEVER
Kev"er, v. t. &

Defn: i. To cover. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KEVERCHIEF
Kev"er*chief, n.

Defn: A kerchief. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KEX
Kex, n. Etym: [W. cecys, pl., hollow stalks.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A weed; a kecksy. Bp. Gauden.
Though the rough kex break The starred mosaic. Tennyson.

2. A dry husk or covering.
When the kex, or husk, is broken, he proveth a fair flying butterfly.
Holland.

KEY
Key, n. Etym: [OE. keye, key, kay, AS. c

1. An instrument by means of which the bolt of a lock is shot or
drawn; usually, a removable metal instrument fitted to the mechanism
of a particular lock and operated by turning in its place.

2. An instrument which is turned like a key in fastening or adjusting
any mechanism; as, a watch key; a bed key, etc.

3. That part of an instrument or machine which serves as the means of
operating it; as, a telegraph key; the keys of a pianoforte, or of a
typewriter.

4. A position or condition which affords entrance, control, pr
possession, etc.; as, the key of a line of defense; the key of a
country; the key of a political situation. Hence, that which serves
to unlock, open, discover, or solve something unknown or difficult;
as, the key to a riddle; the key to a problem.
Those who are accustomed to reason have got the true key of books.
Locke.
Who keeps the keys of all the creeds. Tennyson.

5. That part of a mechanism which serves to lock up, make fast, or
adjust to position.

6. (Arch.)
(a) A piece of wood used as a wedge.
(b) The last board of a floor when laid down.

7. (Masonry)
(a) A keystone.
(b) That part of the plastering which is forced through between the
laths and holds the rest in place.

8. (Mach.)
(a) A wedge to unite two or more pieces, or adjust their relative
position; a cotter; a forelock. See Illusts. of Cotter, and Gib.
(b) A bar, pin or wedge, to secure a crank, pulley, coupling, etc.,
upon a shaft, and prevent relative turning; sometimes holding by
friction alone, but more frequently by its resistance to shearing,
being usually embedded partly in the shaft and partly in the crank,
pulley, etc.

9. (Bot.)

Defn: An indehiscent, one-seeded fruit furnished with a wing, as the
fruit of the ash and maple; a samara; -- called also key fruit.

10. (Mus.)
(a) A family of tones whose regular members are called diatonic
tones, and named key tone (or tonic) or one (or eight), mediant or
three, dominant or five, subdominant or four, submediant or six,
supertonic or two, and subtonic or seven. Chromatic tones are
temporary members of a key, under such names as " sharp four," "flat
seven," etc. Scales and tunes of every variety are made from the
tones of a key.
(b) The fundamental tone of a movement to which its modulations are
referred, and with which it generally begins and ends; keynote.
Both warbling of one song, both in one key. Shak.

11. Fig: The general pitch or tone of a sentence or utterance.
You fall at once into a lower key. Cowper.
Key bed. Same as Key seat.
 -- Key bolt, a bolt which has a mortise near the end, and is secured
by a cotter or wedge instead of a nut. Key bugle. See Kent bugle.
 -- Key of a position or country. (Mil.) See Key, 4.
 -- Key seat (Mach.), a bed or groove to receive a key which prevents
one part from turning on the other.
 -- Key way, a channel for a key, in the hole of a piece which is
keyed to a shaft; an internal key seat; -- called also key seat.
 -- Key wrench (Mach.), an adjustable wrench in which the movable jaw
is made fast by a key.
 -- Power of the keys (Eccl.), the authority claimed by the ministry
in some Christian churches to administer the discipline of the
church, and to grant or withhold its privileges; -- so called from
the declaration of Christ, "I will give unto thee the keys of the
kingdom of heaven." Matt. xvi. 19.

KEY
Key, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Keved; p. pr. & vb. n. Keying.]

Defn: To fasten or secure firmly; to fasten or tighten with keys or
wedges. Francis. To key up. (a) (Arch.) To raise (the whole ring of
an arch) off its centering, by driving in the keystone forcibly. (b)
(Mus.) To raise the pitch of. (c) Hence, fig., to produce nervous
tension in.

KEYAGE
Key"age, n. Etym: [OF.caiage, F. guayage. See lst Key, Quay.]

Defn: Wharfage; quayage.

KEYBOARD
Key"board`, n.

Defn: The whole arrangement, or one range, of the keys of an organ,
typewriter, etc.

KEY-COLD
Key"-cold`, a.

Defn: Cold as a metallic key; lifeless. [Formerly, a proverbial
expression.] Shak. Milton.

KEYED
Keyed (ked), a.

Defn: Furnished with keys; as, a keyed instrument; also, set to a
key, as a tune. Keyed bugle. See Kent bugle.

KEY FRUIT
Key fruit. (Bot.)

Defn: A samara.

KEYHOLE
Key"hole`, n.

1. A hole or apertupe in a door or lock, for receiving a key.

2.
(a) (Carp.) A hole or excavation in beams intended to be joined
together, to receive the key which fastens them.
(b) (Mach.) a mortise for a key or cotter. Keyhole limpet (Zoöl.), a
marine gastropod of the genus Fissurella and allied genera. See
Fissurella.
 -- Keyhole saw, a narrow, slender saw, used in cutting keyholes,
etc., as in doors; a kind of compass saw or fret saw.
 -- Keyhole urchin (Zoöl.), any one of numerous clypeastroid sea
urchins, of the genera Melitta, Rotula, and Encope; -- so called
because they have one or more perforations resembling keyholes.

KEYNOTE
Key"note`, n.

1. (Mus.)

Defn: The tonic or first tone of the scale in which a piece or
passage is written; the fundamental tone of the chord, to which all
the modulations of the piece are referred; -- called also key tone.

2. The fundamental fact or idea; that which gives the key; as, the
keynote of a policy or a sermon.

KEYSEAT
Key"seat`, v. t.

Defn: To form a key seat, as by cutting. See Key seat, under Key.

KEYSTONE
Key"stone`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The central or topmost stone of an arch. This in some styles is
made different in size from the other voussoirs, or projects, or is
decorated with carving. See Illust. of Arch. Keystone State, the
State of Pennsylvania; -- so called from its having been the central
State of the Union at the formation of the Constitution.

KEYSTONE STATE
Key"stone` State.

Defn: Pennsylvania; -- a nickname alluding to its having been the
central one of the 13 original United States.

KEY TONE
Key" tone`. (Mus.)

Defn: See Keynote.

KEYWAY
Key"way`, n.

Defn: See Key way, under Key.

KHAKI
Kha"ki (kä"ke), a. [Hind. khaki, lit., dusty, dust-colored, fr. Per.
khak dust.]

Defn: Of a dull brownish yellow, or drab color; -- applied to cloth,
originally to a stout brownish cotton cloth, used in making uniforms
in the Anglo-Indian army. In the United States service the summer
uniform of cotton is officially designated khaki; the winter uniform
of wool, olive drab.

KHAKI
Kha"ki, n.

Defn: Any kind of khaki cloth; hence, a uniform of khaki or, rarely,
a soldier clad in khaki. In the United States and British armies
khaki or cloth of a very similar color is almost exclusively used for
service in the field.

KHALIFF
Kha"liff, n.

Defn: See Caliph.

KHAMSIN
Kham*sin`, n.

Defn: Same as Kamsin.

KHAN
Khan, n. Etym: [Pers. & Tart. khan.] [Also kan, kaun.]

Defn: A king; a prince; a chief; a governor; -- so called among the
Tartars, Turks, and Persians, and in countries now or formerly
governed by them.

KHAN
Khan, n. Etym: [Per. khan, khanah, house, tent, inn.]

Defn: An Eastern inn or caravansary. [Written also kawn.]

KHANATE
Khan*ate (, n.

Defn: Dominion or jurisdiction of a khan.

KHAYA
Kha"ya, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A lofty West African tree (Khaya Senegalensis), related to the
mahogany, which it resembles in the quality of the wood. The bark is
used as a febrifuge.

KHEDIVE
Khe`dive", n. Etym: [F. khédive, Pers. khediw a prince.]

Defn: A governor or viceroy; -- a title granted in 1867 by the sultan
of Turkey to the ruler of Egypt.

KHENNA
Khen"na, n.

Defn: See Henna.

KHOLAH
Kho"lah, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Indian jackal.

KHOLSUN
Khol"sun (, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dhole.

KHOND
Khond, n.

Defn: A Dravidian of a group of tribes of Orissa, India, a section of
whom were formerly noted for their cruel human sacrifices to the
earth goddess, murder of female infants, and marriage by capture.

KHUTBAH
Khut"bah, n. Etym: [Ar.]

Defn: An address or public prayer read from the steps of the pulpit
in Mohammedan mosques, offering glory to God, praising Mohammed and
his descendants, and the ruling princes.

KIABOOCA WOOD
Ki`a*boo"ca wood`

Defn: . See Kyaboca wood.

KIANG
Ki*ang", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dziggetai.

KIBBLE
Kib"ble, v. t.

Defn: To bruise; to grind coarsely; as, kibbled oats. [Prov.Eng.]
Halliwell.

KIBBLE
Kib"ble, n.

Defn: A large iron bucket used in Cornwall and Wales for raising ore
out of mines. [Prov. Eng.] [Written also kibbal.]

KIBBLINGS
Kib"blings, n. pl.

Defn: Portions of small fish used for bait on the banks of
Newfoundland.

KIBE
Kibe, n. Etym: [W. cib + gwst pain, sickness.]

Defn: A chap or crack in the flesh occasioned by cold; an ulcerated
chilblain. "He galls his kibe." Shak.

KIBED
Kibed, a.

Defn: Chapped; cracked with cold; affected with chilblains; as kibed
heels. Beau. & Fl.

KIBITKA
Ki*bit"ka, n.; pl. Kibitkas (. Etym: [Russ.]

1. A tent used by the Kirghiz Tartars.

2. A rude kind of Russian vehicle, on wheels or on runners, sometimes
covered with cloth or leather, and often used as a movable
habitation.

KIBLAH
Kib"lah (, n.

Defn: See Keblah.

KIBOSH
Ki"bosh, n.

1. Nonsense; stuff; also, fashion; style. [Slang]

2.  Portland cement when thrown or blown into the recesses of carved
stonework to intensify the shadows.

To put the kibosh on, to do for; to dispose of. [Slang]

KIBY
Kib"y, a.

Defn: Affected with kibes. Skelton.

KICHIL
Kich"il

Defn: ,. [Obs.] See Kechil. Chaucer.

KICK
Kick, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kicred; p. pr. & vb. n. Kicking.] Etym: [W.
cicio, fr. cic foot.]

Defn: To strike, thrust, or hit violently with the foot; as, a horse
kicks a groom; a man kicks a dog.
He [Frederick the Great] kicked the shins of his judges. Macaulay.
To kick the beam, to fit up and strike the beam; -- said of the
lighter arm of a loaded balance; hence, to be found wanting in
weight. Milton.
 -- To kick the bucket, to lose one's life; to die. [Colloq. & Low]

KICK
Kick, v. i.

1. To thrust out the foot or feet with violence; to strike out with
the foot or feet, as in defense or in bad temper; esp., to strike
backward, as a horse does, or to have a habit of doing so. Hence,
figuratively: To show ugly resistance, opposition, or hostility; to
spurn.
I should kick, being kicked. Shak.

2. To recoil; -- said of a musket, cannon, etc.

KICK
Kick, n.

1. A blow with the foot or feet; a striking or thrust with the foot.
A kick, that scarce would more a horse, May kill a sound divine.
Cowper.

2. The projection on the tang of the blade of a pocket knife, which
prevents the edge of the blade from striking the spring. See Illust.
of Pocketknife.

3. (Brickmaking)

Defn: A projection in a mold, to form a depression in the surface of
the brick.

4. The recoil of a musket or other firearm, when discharged.

KICKABLE
Kick"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable or deserving of being kicked. "A kickable boy." G.
Eliot.

KICKAPOOS
Kick`a*poos", n. pl.; sing. Kickapoo (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians which formerly occupied the region of
Northern Illinois, allied in language to the Sacs and Foxes.

KICKER
Kick"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, kicks.

KICKSHAW
Kick"shaw`, n.

Defn: See Kickshaws, the correct singular.

KICKSHAWS
Kick"shaws`, n.; pl. Kickshawses Etym: [Corrupt. fr. F. guelgue chose
something, fr. L. gualis of what kind (akin to E. which) + suffix -
guam + causa cause, in LL., a thing. See Which, and Cause.]

1. Something fantastical; any trifling, trumpery thing; a toy.
Art thou good at these kickshawses! Shak.

2. A fancy dish; a titbit; a delicacy.
Some pigeons, . . . a joint of mutton, and any pretty little tiny
kickshaws. Shak.
Cressy was lost by kickshaws and soup-maigre. Fenton.

KICKSHOE
Kick"shoe`, n.

Defn: A kickshaws. Milton.

KICKSY-WICKSY; KICKY-WISKY
Kick"sy-wick`sy, Kick"y-wisk`y, n.

Defn: That which is restless and uneasy.

Note: Kicky-wicky, or, in some editions, Kicksy-wicksy, is applied
contemptuously to a wife by Shakespeare, in "All's Well that Ends
Well," ii. 3, 297.

KICKSY-WICKSY
Kick"sy-wick`sy, a.

Defn: Fantastic; restless; as, kicksy-wicksy flames. Nares.

KICKUP
Kick"up, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The water thrush or accentor. [Local, West Indies]

KID
Kid, n. Etym: [Of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. ki, Dan. & Sw. kid; akin
to OHG. kizzi, G. kitz, kitzchen, kitzlein.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young goat.
The . . . leopard shall lie down with the kid. Is. xi. 6
.

2. A young child or infant; hence, a simple person, easily imposed
on. [Slang] Charles Reade.

3. A kind of leather made of the skin of the young goat, or of the
skin of rats, etc.

4. pl.

Defn: Gloves made of kid. [Colloq. & Low]

5. A small wooden mess tub; -- a name given by sailors to one in
which they receive their food. Cooper.

KID
Kid, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kidded; p. pr. & vb. n. Kidding.]

Defn: To bring forth a young goat.

KID
Kid, n. Etym: [Cf. W. cidysen.]

Defn: A fagot; a bundle of heath and furze. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

KID
Kid, p. p.

Defn: of Kythe. [Obs.] Gower. Chaucer.

KID
Kid, v. t.

Defn: See Kiddy, v. t. [Slang]

KIDDE
Kid"de, imp.

Defn: of Kythe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KIDDERMINSTER
Kid"der*min`ster, n.

Defn: A kind of ingrain carpeting, named from the English town where
formerly most of it was manufactured.

KIDDIER
Kid"di*er, n. Etym: [Cf. OSw. kyta to truck.]

Defn: A huckster; a cadger. [Obs.] Halliwell.

KIDDLE
Kid"dle, n. Etym: [Cf. LL.kidellus, Armor. kiael]

Defn: A kind of basketwork wear in a river, for catching fish.
[Improperly spelled kittle.]

KIDDOW
Kid"dow, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The guillemot. [Written also kiddaw.] [Prov. Eng.]

KIDDY
Kid"dy, v. t.

Defn: To deceive; to outwit; to hoax. [Slang] Dickens.

KIDDY
Kid"dy, n.

Defn: A young fellow; formerly, a low thief. [Slang, Eng.]

KIDDYISH
Kid"dy*ish, a.

Defn: Frolicsome; sportive. [Slang]

KIDFOX; KID-FOX
Kid"fox`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young fox Shak.

KIDLING
Kid"ling, n. Etym: [Kid +-ling: cf. Sw. kidling.]

Defn: A young kid.

KIDNAP
Kid"nap`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kidnaped or Kidnapped; p. pr. & vb. n.
Kidnaping or Kidnapping.] Etym: [Kid a child + Prov. E. nap to seize,
to grasp. Cf. Knab, Knap, Nab.]

Defn: To take (any one) by force or fear, and against one's will,
with intent to carry to another place. Abbott.
You may reason or expostulate with the parents, but never attempt to
kidnap their children, and to make proselytes of them. Whately.

Note: Originally used only of stealing children, but now extended in
application to any human being, involuntarily abducted.

KIDNAPER; KIDNAPPER
Kid"nap`er, or; Kid"nap`per, n.

Defn: One who steals or forcibly carries away a human being; a
manstealer.

KIDNEY
Kid"ney, n.; pl. Kidneys. Etym: [OE. kidnei, kidnere, from Icel. koi
belly, womb (akin to Goth. gipus, AS. cwip womb) + OE. nere kidney;
akin to D. nier, G. niere, OHG. nioro, Icel. n, Dan. nyre, Sw. njure,
and probably to Gr. (Kite belly.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A glandular organ which excretes urea and other waste products
from the animal body; a urinary gland.

Note: In man and in other mammals there are two kidneys, one each
side of vertebral column in the back part of the abdomen, each kidney
being connected with the bladder by a long tube, the ureter, through
which the urine is constantly excreted into the bladder to be
periodically discharged.

2. Habit; disposition; sort; kind. Shak.
There are in later other decrees, made by popes of another kidney.
Barrow.
Millions in the world of this man's kidney. L'Estrange.
Your poets, spendthrifts, and other fools of that kidney, pretend,
forsooth, to crack their jokes on prudence. Burns.

Note: This use of the word perhaps arose from the fact that the
kidneys and the fat about them are an easy test of the condition of
an animal as to fatness. "Think of that, -- a man of my kidney; -- .
. . as subject to heat as butter." Shak.

3. A waiter. [Old Cant] Tatler. Floating kidney. See Wandering
kidney, under Wandering.
 -- Kidney bean (Bot.), a sort of bean; -- so named from its shape.
It is of the genus Phaseolus (P. vulgaris). See under Bean.
 -- Kidney ore (Min.), a variety of hematite or iron sesquioxide,
occurring in compact kidney-shaped masses.
 -- Kidney stone. (Min.) See Nephrite, and Jade.
 -- Kidney vetch (Bot.), a leguminous herb of Europe and Asia
(Anthyllis vulneraria), with cloverlike heads of red or yellow
flowers, once used as a remedy for renal disorders, and also to stop
the flow of blood from wounds; lady's-fingers.

KIDNEY-FORM; KIDNEY-SHAPED
Kid"ney-form`, Kid"ney-shaped`, a.

Defn: Having the form or shape of a kidney; reniform; as, a kidney-
shaped leaf. Gray.

KIDNEYWORT
Kid"ney*wort`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A kind of saxifrage (Saxifrage stellaris).
(b) The navelwort.

KIE
Kie, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. Kee.]

Defn: Kine; cows. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

KIEFEKIL
Kie"fe*kil, n. Etym: [Per. keff foam, scum + gil clay, mud.] (Min.)

Defn: A species of clay; meerschaum. [Also written keffekil.]

KIER
Kier, n. Etym: [Icel. ker a tub.] (Bleaching)

Defn: A large tub or vat in which goods are subjected to the action
of hot lye or bleaching liquor; -- also called keeve.

KIESELGUHR
Kie"sel*guhr`, n. Etym: [G., fr. kiesel flint + guhr an earthy
deposit or sediment in water.]

Defn: Siliceous earth; specifically, porous infusorial earth, used as
an absorbent of nitroglycerin in the manufacture of dynamite.

KIESERITE
Kie"ser*ite. n. Etym: [Named after Prof. Kieser, of Jena.] (Min.)

Defn: Hydrous sulphate of magnesia found at the salt mines of
Stassfurt, Prussian Saxony.

KIEVE
Kieve, n.

Defn: See Keeve, n.

KIKE
Kike, v. i. Etym: [Cf. D. kijken, Sw. kika.]

Defn: To gaze; to stare. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KIKE
Kike, v. t. & i.

Defn: To kick [Obs.] Chaucer.

KILDERKIN
Kil"der*kin, n. Etym: [OD. kindeken, kinneken, a small barrel, orig.,
a little child, fr. kind child; akin to G.kind, and to E. kin.]

Defn: A small barrel; an old liquid measure containing eighteen
English beer gallons, or nearly twenty-two gallons, United States
measure. [Written also kinderkin.]

KILERG
Kil"erg`, n.  [Kilo- + erg.] (Physics)

Defn: A unit of work equal to one thousand ergs.

KILKENNY CATS
Kil*ken"ny cats.

Defn: Two cats fabled, in an Irish story, to have fought till nothing
was left but their tails. It is probably a parable of a local contest
between Kilkenny and Irishtown, which impoverished both towns.

KILL
Kill, n.

Defn: A kiln. [Obs.] Fuller.

KILL
Kill, n. Etym: [D. kil.]

Defn: A channel or arm of the sea; a river; a stream; as, the channel
between Staten Island and Bergen Neck is the Kill van Kull, or the
Kills; -- used also in composition; as, Schuylkill, Catskill, etc.

KILL
Kill, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Killed; p. pr. & vb. n. Killing.] Etym:
[OE. killen, kellen, cullen, to kill, strike; perh. the same word as
cwellen, quellen, to kill (cf. Quell), or perh. rather akin to Icel.
kolla to hit in the head, harm, kollr top, summit, head, Sw. kulle,
D. kollen to kill with the ax.]

1. To deprive of life, animal or vegetable, in any manner or by any
means; to render inanimate; to put to death; to slay.
Ah, kill me with thy weapon, not with words ! Shak.

2. To destroy; to ruin; as, to kill one's chances; to kill the sale
of a book. "To kill thine honor." Shak.
Her lively color kill'd with deadly cares. Shak.

3. To cause to cease; to quell; to calm; to still; as, in seamen's
language, a shower of rain kills the wind.
Be comforted, good madam; the great rage, You see, is killed in him.
Shak.

4. To destroy the effect of; to counteract; to neutralize; as, alkali
kills acid. To kill time, to busy one's self with something which
occupies the attention, or makes the time pass without tediousness.

Syn.
 -- To murder; assassinate; slay; butcher; destroy.
 -- To Kill, Murder, Assassinate. To kill does not necessarily mean
any more than to deprive of life. A man may kill another by accident
or in self-defense, without the imputation of guilt. To murder is to
kill with malicious forethought and intention. To assassinate is
tomurder suddenly and by stealth. The sheriff may kill without
murdering; the duelist murders, but does not assassinate his
antagonist; the assassin kills and murders.

KILLDEE; KILLDEER
Kill"dee`, Kill"deer`, n. Etym: [So named from its notes.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small American plover (Ægialitis vocifera).

Note: It is dark grayish brown above; the rump and upper tail coverts
are yellowish rufous; the belly, throat, and a line over the eyes,
white; a ring round the neck and band across the breast, black.

KILLER
Kill"er, n.

1. One who deprives of life; one who, or that which, kills.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A voracious, toothed whale of the genus Orca, of which several
species are known.

Note: The killers have a high dorsal fin, and powerful jaws armed
with large, sharp teeth. They capture, and swallow entire, large
numbers of seals, porpoises, and dolphins, and are celebrated for
their savage, combined attacks upon the right whales, which they are
said to mutilate and kill. The common Atlantic species (Orca
gladiator), is found both on the European and the American coast. Two
species (Orca ater and O. rectipinna) occur on the Pacific coast.

KILLESSE
Kil*lesse", n. Etym: [Cf. Coulisse.] (Arch.)
(a) A gutter, groove, or channel.
(b) A hipped roof. [Prov. Eng.] Parker.

KILLIFISH
Kil"li*fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several small American cyprinodont fishes of the
genus Fundulus and allied genera. They live equally well in fresh and
brackish water, or even in the sea. They are usually striped or
barred with black. Called also minnow, and brook fish. See Minnow.

KILLIGREW
Kil"li*grew, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Cornish chough. See under Chough. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

KILLIKINICK
Kil`li*ki*nick", n.

Defn: See Kinnikinic.

KILLING
Kill"ing, a.

Defn: Literally, that kills; having power to kill; fatal; in a
colloquial sense, conquering; captivating; irresistible.
 -- Kill"ing*ly, adv.
Those eyes are made so killing. Pope.
Nothing could be more killingly spoken. Milton.

KILL-JOY
Kill"-joy`, n.

Defn: One who causes gloom or grief; a dispiriting person. W. Black.

KILLOCK
Kil"lock, n. Etym: [Cf. Scot.killick "the flue [fluke] of an anchor."
Jamieson.]

Defn: A small anchor; also, a kind of anchor formed by a stone
inclosed by pieces of wood fastened together. [Written also killick.]

KILLOW
Kil"low, n. Etym: [Prov. E. kollow the smut or grime on the backs of
chimneys.]

Defn: An earth of a blackish or deep blue color. Woodward.

KILN
Kiln, n. Etym: [OE.kilne, kulne, AS. cyln, cylen; akin to Icel.
kylna; prob. from the same source as coal. See Coal.]

1. A large stove or oven; a furnace of brick or stone, or a heated
chamber, for the purpose of hardening, burning, or drying anything;
as, a kiln for baking or hardening earthen vessels; a kiln for drying
grain, meal, lumber, etc.; a kiln for calcining limestone.

2. A furnace for burning bricks; a brickkiln.

KILN-DRY
Kiln"-dry`, v. t.

Defn: To dry in a kiln; as, to kiln-dry meal or grain. Mortimer.

KILNHOLE
Kiln"hole`, n.

Defn: The mouth or opening of an oven or kiln. Shak.

KILO
Ki"lo, n.; pl. Kilos. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An abbreviation of Kilogram.

KILO-
Kil"o-. [F. kilo-. See Kilogram.]

Defn: A combining form used to signify thousand in forming the names
of units of measurement; as, kilogram, kilometer, kilowatt, etc.

KILOGRAM; KILOGRAMME
Kil"o*gram, Kil"o*gramme, n. Etym: [F. kilogramme; pref. kilo- (fr.
Gr. chi`lioi a thousand ) + gramme. See 3d Gram.]

Defn: A measure of weight, being a thousand grams, equal to 2.2046
pounds avoirdupois (15,432.34 grains). It is equal to the weight of a
cubic decimeter of distilled water at the temperature of maximum
density, or 39º Fahrenheit.

KILOGRAMMETER; KILOGRAMMETRE
Kil"o*gram*me`ter, Kil"o*gram*me`tre, n. (Mech.)

Defn: A measure of energy or work done, being the amount expended in
raising one kilogram through the height of one meter, in the latitude
of Paris.

KILOLITER; KILOLITRE
Kil"o*li`ter, Kil"o*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. kilolitre. See Kilogram, and
Liter.]

Defn: A measure of capacity equal to a cubic meter, or a thousand
liters. It is equivalent to 35.315 cubic feet, and to 220.04 imperial
gallons, or 264.18 American gallons of 321 cubic inches.

KILOMETER; KILOMETRE
Kil"o*me`ter, Kil"o*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. kilometre. See Kilogram, and
Meter.]

Defn: A measure of length, being a thousand meters. It is equal to
3,280.8 feet, or 62137 of a mile.

KILOSTERE
Kil"o*stere`, n. Etym: [F.kilostere. See Kilogram, and Stere.]

Defn: A cubic measure containing 1000 cubic meters, and equivalent to
35,315 cubic feet.

KILOVOLT
Kil"o*volt`, n.  [Kilo- + volt.] (Elec.)

Defn: A unit of electromotive force equal to one thousand volts.

KILOWATT
Kil"o*watt, n. Etym: [See Kilogram and Watt.] (Elec.)

Defn: One thousand watts.

KILOWATT HOUR
Kil"o*watt` hour. (Elec.)

Defn: A unit of work or energy equal to that done by one kilowatt
acting for one hour; --approx. = 1.34 horse-power hour.

KILT
Kilt (,

Defn: p. p. from Kill. [Obs.] Spenser.

KILT
Kilt, n. Etym: [OGael. cealt clothes, or rather perh. fr. Dan. kilte
op to truss, tie up, tuck up.]

Defn: A kind of short petticoat, reaching from the waist to the
knees, worn in the Highlands of Scotland by men, and in the Lowlands
by young boys; a filibeg. [Written also kelt.]

KILT
Kilt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kilted; p. pr. & vb. n. Kilting.]

Defn: To tuck up; to truss up, as the clothes. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

KILTED
Kilt"ed, a.

1. Having on a kilt.

2. Plaited after the manner of kilting.

3. Tucked or fastened up; -- said of petticoats, etc.

KILTER
Kil"ter, n.

Defn: See Kelter.

KILTING
Kilt"ing, n. (Dressmaking)

Defn: A perpendicular arrangement of flat, single plaits, each plait
being folded so as to cover half the breadth of the preceding one.

KIMBO
Kim"bo, a. Etym: [Cf. Akimbo.]

Defn: Crooked; arched; bent. [Written also kimbow.] Dryden.

KIMMERIAN
Kim*me"ri*an, a.

Defn: See Cimmerian.

KIMNEL
Kim"nel, n.

Defn: A tub. See Kemelin. [Obs.]
She knew not what a kimnel was Beau. & Fl.

KIMONO
Ki*mo"no, n.; pl. -nos (#). [Jap.]

1. A kind of loose robe or gown tied with a sash, worn as an outer
garment by Japanese men and women.

2.  A similar gown worn as a dressing gown by women of Western
nations.

KIMRY
Kim"ry, n.

Defn: See Cymry.

KIN
kin (. Etym: [Of Low German origin; cf. G. -chen, LG.
 -- ken.]

Defn: A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin.

KIN
Kin, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A primitive Chinese instrument of the cittern kind, with from
five to twenty-five silken strings. Riemann.

KIN
Kin, n. Etym: [OE. kin, cun, AS. cynn kin, kind, race, people; akin
to cennan to beget, D. kunne sex, OS. & OHG. kunni kin, race, Icel.
kyn, Goth. kuni, G. & D. kind a child, L. genus kind, race, L.
gignere to beget, Gr. jan to beget. Kind, King, Gender kind, Nation.]

1. Relationship, consanguinity, or affinity; connection by birth or
marriage; kindred; near connection or alliance, as of those having
common descent.

2. Relatives; persons of the same family or race.
The father, mother, and the kinbeside. Dryden.
You are of kin, and so a friend to their persons. Bacon.

KIN
Kin, a.

Defn: Of the same nature or kind; kinder. "Kin to the king." Shak.

-KIN
-kin (-kin). [Of Low German origin; cf. G. -chen, LG. -- ken.]

Defn: A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin.

KINAESODIC
Kin`æ*sod"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Kinesodic.

KINAESTHESIS
Kin`æs*the"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: The perception attendant upon the movements of the muscles.
Bastian.

KINAESTHETIC; KINESTHETIC
Kin`æs*thet"ic, Kin`es*thet"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or involving, kinæsthesis.

KINATE
Ki"nate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. kinate. ] (Chem.)

Defn: See Quinate. [Obsolescent]

KINCOB
Kin"cob, n.

Defn: India silk brocaded with flowers in silver or gold.
 -- a.

Defn: Of the nature of kincob; brocaded. Thackeray.

KIND
Kind, a. [Compar. Kinder; superl. Kindest.] Etym: [AS. cynde,
gecynde, natural, innate, prop. an old p. p. from the root of E. kin.
See Kin kindred.]

1. Characteristic of the species; belonging to one's nature; natural;
native. [Obs.] Chaucer.
It becometh sweeter than it should be, and loseth the kind taste.
Holland.

2. Having feelings befitting our common nature; congenial;
sympathetic; as, a kind man; a kind heart.
Yet was he kind, or if severe in aught, The love he bore to learning
was his fault. Goldsmith.

3. Showing tenderness or goodness; disposed to do good and confer
happiness; averse to hurting or paining; benevolent; benignant;
gracious.
He is kind unto the unthankful and to evil. Luke vi 35.
O cruel Death, to those you take more kind Than to the wretched
mortals left behind. Waller.
A fellow feeling makes one wondrous kind. Garrick.

4. Proceeding from, or characterized by, goodness, gentleness, or
benevolence; as, a kind act. "Manners so kind, yet stately."
Tennyson.

5. Gentle; tractable; easily governed; as, a horse kind in harness.

Syn.
 -- Benevolent; benign; beneficent; bounteous; gracious; propitious;
generous; forbearing; indulgent; tender; humane; compassionate; good;
lenient; clement; mild; gentle; bland; obliging; friendly; amicable.
See Obliging.

KIND
Kind, n. Etym: [OE. kinde, cunde, AS. cynd. See Kind, a.]

1. Nature; natural instinct or disposition. [Obs.]
He knew by kind and by no other lore. Chaucer.
Some of you, on pure instinct of nature, Are led by kind t'admire
your fellow-creature. Dryden.

2. Race; genus; species; generic class; as, in mankind or humankind.
"Come of so low a kind." Chaucer.
Every kind of beasts, and of birds. James iii.7.
She follows the law of her kind. Wordsworth.
Here to sow the seed of bread, That man and all the kinds be fed.
Emerson.

3. Nature; style; character; sort; fashion; manner; variety;
description; class; as, there are several kinds of eloquence, of
style, and of music; many kinds of government; various kinds of soil,
etc.
How diversely Love doth his pageants play, And snows his power in
variable kinds ! Spenser.
There is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of beasts, another
of fishes, and another of birds. I Cor. xv. 39.
Diogenes was asked in a kind of scorn: What was the matter that
philosophers haunted rich men, and not rich men philosophers Bacon.
A kind of, something belonging to the class of; something like to; --
said loosely or slightingly. In kind, in the produce or designated
commodity itself, as distinguished from its value in money.
Tax on tillage was often levied in kind upon corn. Arbuthnot.

Syn.
 -- Sort; species; class; genus; nature; style; character; breed;
set.

KIND
Kind, v. t. Etym: [See Kin.]

Defn: To beget. [Obs.] Spenser.

KINDERGARTEN
Kin"der*gar`ten, n. Etym: [G., lit., children's garden; kinder (pl.
of kind child, akin to E. kin kindred) + garten garden.]

Defn: A school for young children, conducted on the theory that
education should be begun by gratifying and cultivating the normal
aptitude for exercise, play, observation, imitation, and
construction; -- a name given by Friedrich Froebel, a German
educator, who introduced this method of training, in rooms opening on
a garden.

KINDERGARTNER
Kin"der*gart`ner, n.

Defn: One who teaches in a kindergarten.

KIND-HEARTED
Kind"-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Having kindness of nature; sympathetic; characterized by a
humane disposition; as, a kind-hearted landlord.
To thy self at least kind-hearted prove. Shak.

KIND-HEARTEDNESS
Kind"-heart`ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being kind-hearted; benevolence.

KINDLE
Kin"dle, v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. kindlen, cundlen. See Kind.]

Defn: To bring forth young. [Obs.] Shak.
The poor beast had but lately kindled. Holland.

KINDLE
Kin`dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kindled; p. pr. & vb. n. Kindling.]
Etym: [Icel. kyndill candle, torch; prob. fr. L. candela; cf. also
Icel. kynda to kindle. Cf. Candle.]

1. To set on fire; to cause to burn with flame; to ignite; to cause
to begin burning; to start; to light; as, to kindle a match, or
shavings.
His breath kindleth coals. Job xii. 21.

2. Fig.: To inflame, as the passions; to rouse; to provoke; to excite
to action; to heat; to fire; to animate; to incite; as, to kindle
anger or wrath; to kindle the flame of love, or love into a flame.
So is a contentious man to kindle strife. Prov. xxvi. 21.
Nothing remains but that I kindle the boy thither. Shak.
Kindling her undazzled eyes at the full midday beam. Milton.
Could swell the soul to rage, or kindle soft desire. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Enkindle; light; ignite; inflame; provoke; excite; arouse; stir
up.

KINDLE
Kin"dle, v. i.

1. To take fire; to begin to burn with flame; to start as a flame.
When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither
shall the flame kindle upon thee. Is. xliii. 2.

2. Fig.: To begin to be excited; to grow warm or animated; to be
roused or exasperated.
On all occasions where forbearance might be called for, the Briton
kindles, and the Christian gives way. I. Taylor.

KINDLER
Kin"dler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, kindles, stirs up, or sets on
fire."Kindlers of riot." Gay.

KINDLESS
Kind"less, a

Defn: Destitute of kindness; unnatural.[Obs.] "Kindless villain."
Shak.

KINDLINESS
Kind"li*ness, n.

1. Natural inclination; natural course. [Obs.] Milton.

2. The quality or state of being kindly; benignity; benevolence;
gentleness; tenderness; as, kindliness of disposition, of treatment,
or of words.
In kind a father, but not in kindliness. Sackville.

3. Softness; mildness; propitiousness; as, kindliness of weather, or
of a season.
Fruits and corn are much advanced by temper of the air and kindliness
of seasons. Whitlock.

KINDLING
Kind"ling, n.

1. The of causing to burn, or of exciting or inflaming the passions.

2. pl.

Defn: Materials, easily lighted, for starting a fire.

KINDLY
Kind"ly, a. [Compar. Kindlier; superl. Kindliest.] Etym: [AS.
cyndelic. See Kind, n. ]

1. According to the kind or nature; natural. [R.]
The kindly fruits of the earth. Book of Com. Prayer.
An herd of bulls whom kindly rage doth sting. Spenser.
Whatsoever as the Son of God he may do, it is kindly for Him as the
Son of Man to save the sons of men. L. Andrews.

2. Humane; congenial; sympathetic; hence, disposed to do good to;
benevolent; gracious; kind; helpful; as, kindly affections, words,
acts, etc.
The shade by which my life was crossed, . . . Has made me kindly with
my kind. Tennyson.

3. Favorable; mild; gentle; auspicious; beneficent.
In soft silence shed the kindly shower. Pope.
Should e'er a kindlier time ensue. Wordsworth.

Note: "Nothing ethical was connoted in kindly once: it was simply the
adjective of kind. But it is God's ordinance that kind should be
kindly, in our modern sense of the word as well; and thus the word
has attained this meaning." Trench.

KINDLY
Kind"ly, adv.

1. Naturally; fitly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Examine how kindly the Hebrew manners of speech mix and incorporate
with the English language Addison.

2. In a kind manner; congenially; with good will; with a disposition
to make others happy, or to oblige.
Be kindly affectioned one to another, with brotherly love. Rom. xii.
10.

KINDNESS
Kind"ness, n. Etym: [From Kind. a.]

1. The state or quality of being kind, in any of its various senses;
manifestation of kind feeling or disposition beneficence.
I do fear thy nature; It is too full o' the milk of human kindness To
catch the nearest way. Shak.
Unremembered acts Of kindness and of love. Wordsworth.

2. A kind act; an act of good will; as, to do a great kindness.

Syn.
 -- Good will; benignity; grace; tenderness; compassion; humanity;
clemency; mildness; gentleness; goodness; generosity; beneficence;
favor.

KINDRED
Kin"dred, n. Etym: [OE. kinrede, kynrede, kunreden (with excrescent
d), fr. AS. cunn kin, race + the termination to advise, G. rathen.
Cf. Hatred.]

1. Relationship by birth or marriage; consanguinity; affinity; kin.
Like her, of equal kindred to the throne. Dryden.

2. Relatives by blood or marriage, more properly the former;
relations; persons related to each other.
I think there's no man is secure But the queen's kindred. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Kin; kinsfolk; relatives; kinsmen; relations; relationship;
affinity.

KINDRED
Kin"dred, a.

Defn: Related; congenial; of the like nature or properties; as,
kindred souls; kindred skies; kindred propositions.
True to the kindred points of heaven and home. Wordsworth.

KINE
Kine, n. pl. Etym: [For older kyen, formed like oxen, fr. AS. c,
itself pl. of c cow. See Cow, and cf. Kee, Kie.]

Defn: Cows. "A herd of fifty or sixty kine." Milton.

KINEMATIC; KINEMATICAL
Kin`e*mat"ic, Kin`e*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to kinematics. Kinematic curves, curves
produced by machinery, or a combination of motions, as distinguished
from mathematical curves.

KINEMATICS
Kin`e*mat"ics, n. Etym: [Gr. ( (Physics)

Defn: The science which treats of motions considered in themselves,
or apart from their causes; the comparison and relation of motions.

Note: Kinematics forms properly an introduction to mechanics, as
involving the mathematical principles which are to be applied to its
data of forces. Nichol.

KINEPOX
Kine"pox`, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Cowpox. Kin"e*scope (, n.

Defn: See Kinetoscope.

KINESIATRICS
Kin`e*si*at"rics, n. Etym: [Gr. ( (Med.)

Defn: A mode of treating disease by appropriate muscular movements; -
- also termed kinesitherapy, kinesipathy, lingism, and the movement
cure.

KINESIPATHY
Kin`e*sip"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: See Kinesiatrics.

KINESIPATHY
Kin`e*sip"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: See Kinesiatrics.

KINESITHERAPY
Kin`e*si*ther"a*py, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: See Kinesiatrics.

KINESODIC
Kin`e*sod"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. kinésodigue.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Conveying motion; as; kinesodic substance; -- applied esp. to
the spinal cord, because it is capable of conveying doth voluntary
and reflex motor impulses, without itself being affected by motor
impulses applied to it directly.

KINETIC
Ki*net"ic, q. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Moving or causing motion; motory; active, as opposed to latent.
Kinetic energy. See Energy, n. 4.

KINETICS
Ki*net"ics, n. (Physics)

Defn: See Dynamics.

KINETOGENESIS
Ki*ne`to*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: An instrument for producing curves by the combination of
circular movements; -- called also kinescope.

KINETOGRAPH
Ki*ne"to*graph, n. [Gr.  movable + -graph.] (Physics)
 (a) A camera for making chronophotographs.
 (b) A machine for the projection of chronophotographs upon a screen
for the purpose of producing the effect of an animated picture.
 (c) A combined animated-picture machine and phonograph in which
sounds appropriate to the scene are automatically uttered by the
latter instrument.

KINETOPHONE
Ki*ne"to*phone, n. [See Kinetic, Phone.]

Defn: A machine combining a kinetoscope and a phonograph synchronized
so as to reproduce a scene and its accompanying sounds.

KINETOSCOPE
Ki*ne"to*scope, n.

Defn: A machine, for the production of animated pictures, in which a
film carrying successive instantaneous views of a moving scene
travels uniformly through the field of a magnifying glass. The
observer sees each picture, momentarily, through a slit in a
revolving disk, and these glimpses, blended by persistence of vision,
give the impression of continuous motion.

KING
King (, n.

Defn: A Chinese musical instrument, consisting of resonant stones or
metal plates, arranged according to their tones in a frame of wood,
and struck with a hammer.

KING
King, n.Etym: [AS. cyng, cyning; akin to OS. kining, D. koning, OHG.
kining, G. könig, Icel. konungr, Sw. koning, OHG. kuning, Dan. konge;
formed with a patronymic ending, and fr. the root of E. kin; cf.
Icel. konr a man of noble birth. Kin.]

1. A chief ruler; a sovereign; one invested with supreme authority
over a nation, country, or tribe, usually by hereditary succession; a
monarch; a prince. "Ay, every inch a king." Shak.
Kings will be tyrants from policy, when subjects are rebels from
principle. Burke.
There was a State without king or nobles. R. Choate.
But yonder comes the powerful King of Day, Rejoicing in the east
Thomson.

2. One who, or that which, holds a supreme position or rank; a chief
among competitors; as, a railroad king; a money king; the king of the
lobby; the king of beasts.

3. A playing card having the picture of a king; as, the king of
diamonds.

4. The chief piece in the game of chess.

5. A crowned man in the game of draughts.

6. pl.

Defn: The title of two historical books in the Old Testament.

Note: King is often used adjectively, or in combination, to denote
preëminence or superiority in some particular; as, kingbird; king
crow; king vulture. Apostolic king.See Apostolic.
 -- King-at-arms, or King-of-arms, the chief heraldic officer of a
country. In England the king-at-arms was formerly of great authority.
His business is to direct the heralds, preside at their chapters, and
have the jurisdiction of armory. There are three principal kings-at-
arms, viz., Garter, Clarencieux, and Norroy. The latter (literally
north roy or north king) officiates north of the Trent.
 -- King auk (Zoöl.), the little auk or sea dove.
 -- King bird of paradise. (Zoöl.), See Bird of paradise.
 -- King card, in whist, the best unplayed card of each suit; thus,
if the ace and king of a suit have been played, the queen is the king
card of the suit.
 -- King Cole , a legendary king of Britain, who is said to have
reigned in the third century.
 -- King conch (Zoöl.), a large and handsome univalve shell (Cassis
cameo), found in the West Indies. It is used for making cameos. See
Helmet shell, under Helmet.
 -- King Cotton, a popular personification of the great staple
production of the southern United States.
 -- King crab. (Zoöl.) (a) The limulus or horseshoe crab. See
Limulus. (b) The large European spider crab or thornback (Maia
sguinado).
 -- King crow. (Zoöl.) (a) A black drongo shrike (Buchanga atra) of
India; -- so called because, while breeding, they attack and drive
away hawks, crows, and other large birds. (b) The Dicrurus
macrocercus of India, a crested bird with a long, forked tail. Its
color is black, with green and blue reflections. Called also devil
bird.
 -- King duck (Zoöl.), a large and handsome eider duck (Somateria
spectabilis), inhabiting the arctic regions of both continents.
 -- King eagle (Zoöl.), an eagle (Aquila heliaca) found in Asia and
Southeastern Europe. It is about as large as the golden eagle. Some
writers believe it to be the imperial eagle of Rome.
 -- King hake (Zoöl.), an American hake (Phycis regius), fond in deep
water along the Atlantic coast.
 -- King monkey (Zoöl.), an African monkey(Colobus polycomus),
inhabiting Sierra Leone.
 -- King mullet (Zoöl.), a West Indian red mullet (Upeneus
maculatus); -- so called on account of its great beauty. Called also
goldfish.
 -- King of terrors, death.
 -- King parrakeet (Zoöl.), a handsome Australian parrakeet
(Platycercys scapulatus), often kept in a cage. Its prevailing color
is bright red, with the back and wings bright green, the rump blue,
and tail black.
 -- King penguin (Zoöl.), any large species of penguin of the genus
Aptenodytes; esp., A. longirostris, of the Falkland Islands and
Kerguelen Land, and A. Patagonica , of Patagonia.
 -- King rail (Zoöl.), a small American rail (Rallus elegans), living
in fresh-water marshes. The upper parts are fulvous brown, striped
with black; the breast is deep cinnamon color.
 -- King salmon (Zoöl.), the quinnat. See Quinnat.
 -- King's, or Queen's, counsel (Eng. Law), barristers learned in the
law, who have been called within the bar, and selected to be the
king's or gueen's counsel. They answer in some measure to the
advocates of the revenue (advocati fisci) among the Romans. They can
not be employed against the crown without special license. Wharton's
Law Dict.
 -- King's cushion, a temporary seat made by two persons crossing
their hands. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
 -- The king's English, correct or current language of good speakers;
pure English. Shak.
 -- King's or Queen's, evidence, testimony in favor of the Crown by a
witness who confesses his guilt as an accomplice. See under Evidence.
[Eng.] -- King's evil, scrofula; -- so called because formerly
supposed to be healed by the touch of a king.
 -- King snake (Zoöl.), a large, nearly black, harmless snake
(Ophiobolus getulus) of the Southern United States; -- so called
because it kills and eats other kinds of snakes, including even the
rattlesnake.
 -- King's spear (Bot.), the white asphodel (Asphodelus albus).
 -- King's yellow, a yellow pigment, consisting essentially of
sulphide and oxide of arsenic; -- called also yellow orpiment.
 -- King tody (Zoöl.), a small fly-catching bird (Eurylaimus
serilophus) of tropical America. The head is adorned with a large,
spreading, fan-shaped crest, which is bright red, edged with black.
 -- King vulture (Zoöl.), a large species of vulture (Sarcorhamphus
papa), ranging from Mexico to Paraguay, The general color is white.
The wings and tail are black, and the naked carunculated head and the
neck are briliantly colored with scarlet, yellow, orange, and blue.
So called because it drives away other vultures while feeding.
 -- King wood, a wood from Brazil, called also violet wood,
beautifully streaked in violet tints, used in turning and small
cabinetwork. The tree is probably a species of Dalbergia. See
Jacaranda.

KING
King, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kinged; p. pr. & vb. n. Kinging). ]

Defn: To supply with a king; to make a king of; to raise to royalty.
[R.] Shak.
Those traitorous captains of Israel who kinged themselves by slaying
their masters and reigning in their stead. South.

KINGBIRD
King"bird, n. (Zoöl.)

1. A small American bird (Tyrannus, or T. Carolinensis), noted for
its courage in attacking larger birds, even hawks and eagles,
especially when they approach its nest in the breeding season. It is
a typical tyrant flycatcher, taking various insects upon the wing. It
is dark ash above, and blackish on the bead and tail. The quills and
wing coverts are whitish at the edges. It is white beneath, with a
white terminal band on the tail. The feathers on the head of the
adults show a bright orange basal spot when erected. Called also bee
bird, and bee martin. Several Southern and Western species of
Tyrannus are also called king birds.

2. The king tody. See under King.

KINGBOLT
King"bolt`, n.

Defn: A vertical iron bolt, by which the forward axle and wheels of a
vehicle or the trucks of a railroad car are connected with the other
parts.

KING CHARLES SPANIEL
King Charles span"iel. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A variety of small pet dogs, having, drooping ears, a high,
dome-shaped forehead, pug nose, large, prominent eyes, and long, wavy
hair. The color is usually black and tan.

KINGCRAFT
King"craft, n.

Defn: The craft of kings; the art of governing as a sovereign; royal
policy. Prescott.

KINGCUP
King"cup`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The common buttercup.

KINGDOM
King"dom, n. Etym: [AS. cyningd. See 2d King, and -dom.]

1. The rank, quality, state, or attributes of a king; royal
authority; sovereign power; rule; dominion; monarchy.
Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. Ps. cxiv. 13.
When Jehoram was risen up to the kingdom of his father, he
strengthened himself. 2 Chron. xxi. 4.

2. The territory or country subject to a king or queen; the dominion
of a monarch; the sphere in which one is king or has control.
Unto the kingdom of perpetual night. Shak.
You're welcome, Most learned reverend sir, into our kingdom. Shak.

3. An extensive scientific division distinguished by leading or
ruling characteristics; a principal division; a department; as, the
mineral kingdom. "The animal and vegetable kingdoms." Locke.
Animal kingdom. See under Animal.
 -- Kingdom of God. (a) The universe. (b) That spiritual realm of
which God is the acknowledged sovereign. (c) The authority or
dominion of God.
 -- Mineral kingdom. See under Mineral.
 -- United Kingdom. See under United.
 -- Vegetable kingdom. See under Vegetable.

Syn.
 -- Realm; empire; dominion; monarchy; sovereignty; domain.

KINGDOMED
King"domed, a.

Defn: Having a kingdom or the dignity of a king; like a kingdom. [R.]
"Twixt his mental and his active parts, Kingdom'd Achilles in
commotion rages And batters down himself. Shak.

KINGFISH
King"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) An American marine food fish of the genus Menticirrus, especially
M. saxatilis, or M. nebulosos, of the Atlantic coast; -- called also
whiting, surf whiting, and barb.
(b) The opah.
(c) The common cero; also, the spotted cero. See Cero.
(d) The queenfish.

KINGFISHER
King"fish`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of birds constituting the family
Alcedinidæ. Most of them feed upon fishes which they capture by
diving and seizing then with the beak; others feed only upon
reptiles, insects, etc. About one hundred and fifty species are
known. They are found in nearly all parts of the world, but are
particularly abundant in the East Indies.

Note: The belted king-fisher of the United States (Ceryle alcyon)
feeds upon fishes. It is slate-blue above, with a white belly and
breast, and a broad white ring around the neck. A dark band crosses
the breast. The common European species (Alcedo ispida), which is
much smaller and brighter colored, is also a fisher. See Alcedo. The
wood kingfishers (Halcyones), which inhabit forests, especially in
Africa, feed largely upon insects, but also eat reptiles, snails, and
small Crustacea, as well as fishes. The giant kingfisher of Australia
feeds largely upon lizards and insects. See Laughing jackass, under
Laughing.

KINGHOOD
King"hood, n.

Defn: The state of being a king; the attributes of a king; kingship.
Gower.

KINGLESS
King"less, a.

Defn: Having no king. F. Lieber.

KINGLET
King"let, n.

1. A little king; a weak or insignificant king. Carlyle.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small singing birds of the genus
Regulus and family Sylviidæ.

Note: The golden-crowned kinglet (Regulus satrapa), and the
rubycrowned kinglet (R. calendula), are the most common American
species. The common English kinglet (R. cristatus) is also called
golden-crested wren, moonie, and marigold finch. The kinglets are
often popularly called wrens, both in America and England.

KINGLIHOOD
King"li*hood, n.

Defn: King-liness. Tennyson.

KINGLINESS
King"li*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being kingly.

KINGLING
King"ling, n.

Defn: Same as Kinglet, 1. Churchill.

KINGLY
King"ly, a. [Compar. Kinglier; superl. Kingliest.]

Defn: Belonging to, suitable to, or becoming, a king; characteristic
of, resembling, a king; directed or administered by a king;
monarchical; royal; sovereign; regal; august; noble; grand. "Kingly
magnificence." Sir P. Sidney. "A kingly government." Swift. "The
kingly couch." Shak.
The kingliest kings are crowned with thorn. G. Massey.
Leave kingly backs to cope with kingly cares. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Regal; royal; monarchical; imperial; august; sovereign; noble;
splendid.
 -- Kingly, Regal. Kingly is Anglo-Saxon, and refers especially to
the character of a king; regal is Latin, and now relates more to his
office. The former is chiefly used of dispositions, feelings, and
purposes which are kinglike; as, kingly sentiments; kingly
condescension; " a kingly heart for enterprises." Sir P. Sidney. The
latter is oftener applied to external state, pomp, etc.; as, regal
state, regal title, etc. This distinction is not observed by our
early writers, but is gaining ground.

KINGLY
King"ly, adv.

Defn: In a kingly or kinglike manner. Shak.
Low bowed the rest; he, kingly, did but nod. Pore.

Note: Although this citation, one from Paradise Lost, and one from
Shakespeare's ll4th Sonnet are given by lexicographers as examples of
adverbial use, it is by no means clear that the word is not an
adjective in each instance.

KING-POST
King"-post`, n. (Carp.)

Defn: A member of a common form of truss, as a roof truss. It is
strictly a tie, intended to prevent the sagging of the tiebeam in the
middle. If there are struts, supporting the main rafters, they often
bear upon the foot of the king-post. Called also crown-post.

KING'S BENCH
King's Bench. (Law)

Defn: Formerly, the highest court of common law in England; -- so
called because the king used to sit there in person. It consisted of
a chief justice and four puisne, or junior, justices. During the
reign of a queen it was called the Queen's Bench. Its jurisdiction
was transferred by the judicature acts of 1873 and 1875 to the high
court of justice created by that legislation.

KINGSHIP
King"ship, n.

Defn: The state, office, or dignity of a king; royalty. Landor.

KINGSTON; KINGSTONE
King"ston, King"stone`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The black angel fish. See Angel fish, under Angel.

KINGSTON METAL
King"ston met"al

Defn: . An alloy of tin, copper, and mercury, sometimes used for the
bearings and packings of machinery. McElrath.

KINGSTON VALVE
King"ston valve. (Marine Steam Engin.)

Defn: A conical valve, opening outward, to close the mouth of a pipe
which passes through the side of a vessel below the water line.

KINGTRUSS
King"truss`. (Carp.)

Defn: A truss, framed with a king-post; -- used in roofs, bridges,
etc.

KINIC
Ki"nic, a. Etym: [Cf. F.kinique.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Quinic.

KINIT
Kin"it, n. [Gr.  to move.] (Physics)

Defn: A unit of force equal to the force which, acting for one
second, will give a pound a velocity of one foot per second; --
proposed by J.D.Everett, an English physicist.

KINK
Kink, n. Etym: [D. kink a bend or turn, or Sw. kink.]

1. A twist or loop in a rope or thread, caused by a spontaneous
doubling or winding upon itself; a close loop or curl; a doubling in
a cord.

2. An unreasonable notion; a crotchet; a whim; a caprice. [Colloq.]
Cozzens.

KINK
Kink, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kinked; p. pr. & vb. n. Kinking.]

Defn: To wind into a kink; to knot or twist spontaneously upon
itself, as a rope or thread.

KINK
Kink, n. Etym: [Cf. Chincough, Kink-haust.]

Defn: A fit of coughing; also, a convulsive fit of laughter. [Scot.]

KINKAJOU
Kin"ka*jou`, n. Etym: [F. kinkajou, quincajou, from the native
American name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A nocturnal carnivorous mammal (Cercoleptes caudivolvulus) of
South America, about as large as a full-grown cat. It has a
prehensile tail and lives in trees. It is the only representative of
a distinct family (Cercoleptidæ) allied to the raccoons. Called also
potto, and honey bear.

KINKHAUST
Kink"haust`, n. Etym: [Prov. E. kink to gasp (cf. Chin cough) + haust
a cough (akin to E. wheeze).]

Defn: Whooping cough. [Obs.or Prov. Eng.]

KINKLE
Kin"kle, n.

Defn: Same as 3d Kink.

KINKY
Kink"y, a.

1. Full of kinks; liable to kink or curl; as, kinky hair.

2. Queer; eccentric; crotchety. [Colloq. U.S.]

KINNIKINIC
Kin`ni*ki*nic", n. Etym: [Indian, literally, a mixture.]

Defn: Prepared leaves or bark of certain plants; -- used by the
Indians of the Northwest for smoking, either mixed with tobacco or as
a substitute for it. Also, a plant so used, as the osier cornel
(Cornus stolonijra), and the bearberry (Arctostaphylus Uva-ursi).
[Spelled also kinnickinnick and killikinick.]

KINO
Ki"no, n.

Defn: The dark red dried juice of certain plants, used variously in
tanning, in dyeing, and as an astringent in medicine.

Note: The chief supply is from an East Indian leguminous tree, the
Pterocarpus Marsupium. Other sources are the African Pterocarpus
erinaceus, the tropical American sea grape (Coccoloba uvifera), and
several Australian Eucalypti. See Botany bay kino, under Botany bay,
Gum butea, under Gum, and Eucalyptus.

KINOLOGY
Ki*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That branch of physics which treats of the laws of motion, or
of moving bodies.

KINONE
Ki"none, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Quinone.

KINOYL
Ki"noyl, n. (Chem.) [Obs.]

Defn: See Quinoyl.

KINREDE
Kin"rede, n.

Defn: Kindred. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KINSFOLK
Kins"folk`, n.

Defn: Relatives; kindred; kin; persons of the same family or closely
or closely related families.
They sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance. Luke ii. 44.

KINSHIP
Kin"ship, n.

Defn: Family relationship.

KINSMAN
Kins"man, n.; pl. Kinsmen (.

Defn: A man of the same race or family; one related by blood.

KINSMANSHIP
Kins"man*ship, n.

Defn: Kinship. Thackeray.

KINSWOMAN
Kins"wom`an, n.; pl. Kinswomen (.

Defn: A female relative. Shak.

KINTLIDGE
Kint"lidge, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Kentledge.

KIOSK
Ki*osk", n. Etym: [Turk. kiushk, kiöshk, Per. k.]

Defn: A Turkish open summer house or pavilion, supported by pillars.

KIOWAYS
Ki"o*ways`, n. pl.; sing. Kioway (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians distantly related to the Shoshones. They
formerly inhabited the region about the head waters of the North
Platte.

KIP
Kip, n.

Defn: The hide of a young or small beef creature, or leather made
from it; kipskin. Kip leather. See Kipskin.

KIPE
Kipe, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. kipen to catch, Icel. kippa to pull, snatch.
Cf. Kipper.]

Defn: An osier basket used for catching fish. [Prov. Eng.]

KIPPER
Kip"per, n. Etym: [D. kippen to hatch, snatch, seize. Cf. Kipe.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A salmon after spawning.

2. A salmon split open, salted, and dried or smoked; -- so called
because salmon after spawning were usually so cured, not being good
when fresh. [Scot.] Kipper time, the season in which fishing for
salmon is forbidden. [Eng. & Scot.]

KIPPER
Kip"per, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kippered; p. pr. & vb. n. Kippering.]

Defn: To cure, by splitting, salting, and smoking. "Kippered salmon."
Dickens.

KIPPER
Kip"per, a.

Defn: Amorous; also, lively; light-footed; nimble; gay; sprightly.
[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

KIPPERNUT
Kip"per*nut`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to earthnuts of several kinds.

KIPSKIN
Kip"skin`, n. Etym: [Kip + skin.]

Defn: Leather prepared from the skin of young or small cattle,
intermediate in grade between calfskin and cowhide.

KIRK
Kirk, n. Etym: [Scot.; cf. Icel. kirkja, of Greek origin. See
Church.]

Defn: A church or the church, in the various senses of the word;
esp., the Church of Scotland as distinguished from other reformed
churches, or from the Roman Catholic Church. [Scot.] Jamieson.

KIRKED
Kirked, a. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Turned upward; bent. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

KIRKMAN
Kirk"man, n.; pl. Kirkmen (.

1. A clergyman or officer in a kirk. [Scot.]

2. A member of the Church of Scotland, as distinguished from a member
of another communion. [Scot.]

KIRKYARD
Kirk"yard`, n.

Defn: A churchyard. [Scot.]

KIRMESS
Kir"mess, n. Etym: [D. kermis; cf. G. kirmes; prop., church mass. See
Church, and Mass a religious service.]

Defn: In Europe, particularly in Belgium and Holland, and outdoor
festival and fair; in the United States, generally an indoor
entertainment and fair combined.

KIRSCHWASSER
Kirsch"was`ser, n. Etym: [G., fr. kirsche cherry + wasser water.]

Defn: An alcoholic liquor, obtained by distilling the fermented juice
of the small black cherry.

KIRSOME
Kir"some, a. Etym: [Corrupted from chrisom.]

Defn: Christian; christened. [Obs.]
I am a true kirsome woman. Beau. & Fl.

KIRTLE
Kir"tle, n. Etym: [OE. kirtel, curtel, AS. cyrtel; skin to Icel.
kyrtill, Sw. kjortel, Dan. kiortel, kiole.]

Defn: A garment varying in form and use at different times, and worn
doth by men and women.
Wearing her Norman car, and her kirtle of blue. Longfellow.

Note: The term is still retained in the provinces, in the sense of "
an outer petticoat." Halliwell.

KIRTLED
Kir"tled, a.

Defn: Wearing a kirtle. Byron.

KIRUMBO
Ki*rum"bo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of Madagascar (Leptosomus discolor), the only living
type of a family allied to the rollers. It has a pair of loral
plumes. The male is glossy green above, with metallic reflections;
the female is spotted with brown and black.

KISH
Kish, n. Etym: [Cf. G. kies gravel, pyrites.] (Min.)

Defn: A workman's name for the graphite which forms incidentally in
iron smelting.

KISMET
Kis"met, n. Etym: [Per. qismat.]

Defn: Destiny; fate. [Written also kismat.] [Oriental]

KISS
Kiss, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kissed;p. pr. & vb. n. Kissing.] Etym: [OE.
kissen, cussen, AS. cyssan, fr. coss a kiss; of uncertain origin;
akin to D. kus, G. kuss, Icel. koss.]

1. To salute with the lips, as a mark of affection, reverence,
submission, forgiveness, etc.
He . . . kissed her lips with such a clamorous smack, That at the
parting all the church echoed. Shak.

2. To touch gently, as if fondly or caressingly.
When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees. Shak.

KISS
Kiss, v. i.

1. To make or give salutation with the lips in token of love,
respect, etc.; as, kiss and make friends.

2. To meet; to come in contact; to touch fondly.
Like fire and powder, Which as they kiss consume. Shak.
Rose, rose and clematis, Trail and twine and clasp and kiss.
Tennyson.
Kissing comfit, a perfumed sugarplum to sweeten the breath. [Obs or
Prov. End.] Shak.

KISS
Kiss, n. Etym: [OE. kiss, derived under the influence of the verb
from the older form coss, AS. coss. See Kiss, v.]

1. A salutation with the lips, as a token of affection, respect,
etc.; as, a parting kiss; a kiss of reconciliation.
Last with a kiss, she took a long farewell. Dryden.
Dear as remembered kisses after death. Tennyson.

2. A small piece of confectionery.

KISSER
Kiss"er, n.

Defn: One who kisses. Beau. & Fl.

KISSING BUG
Kiss"ing bug`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of blood-sucking, venomous Hemiptera
that sometimes bite the lip or other parts of the human body, causing
painful sores, as the cone-nose (Conorhinus sanguisuga). [U. S.]

KISSINGCRUST
Kiss"ing*crust`, n. (Cookery)

Defn: The portion of the upper crust of a loaf which has touched
another loaf in baking. Lamb.
A massy fragment from the rich kissingcrust that hangs like a fretted
cornice from the upper half of the loaf. W. Howitt.

KISSING STRINGS
Kiss"ing strings`.

Defn: Cap or bonnet strings made long to tie under the chin.

One of her ladyship's kissing strings, once pink and fluttering and
now faded and soiled.
Pall Mall Mag.

KIST
Kist, n. Etym: [See Chest.]

Defn: A chest; hence, a coffin. [Scot. & Prov. End.] Jamieson.
Halliwell.

KIST
Kist, n. Etym: [Ar. gist.]

Defn: A stated payment, especially a payment of rent for land; hence,
the time for such payment. [India]

KISTVAEN
Kist"vaen, n. Etym: [W. cist-faen.] (Archæol.)

Defn: A Celtic monument, commonly known as a dolmen.

KIT
Kit, v. t. [imp. Kitte.]

Defn: To cut. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KIT
Kit, n. Etym: [See Kitten.]

Defn: A kitten. Kit fox (Zoöl.), a small burrowing fox (Vulpes
velox), inhabiting the region of the Rocky Mountains. It is brownish
gray, reddish on the breast and flanks, and white below. Called also
swift fox.

KIT
Kit, n. Etym: [Gf. AS. cytere harp, L. cithara. Cf. Guitar.]

Defn: A small violin. "A dancing master's kit." Grew.
Prince Turveydrop then tinkled the strings of his kit with his
fingers, and the young ladies stood up to dance. Dickens.

KIT
Kit, m. Etym: [Cf. D. kit a large bottle, OD. kitte beaker,
decanter.]

1. A large bottle.

2. A wooden tub or pail, smaller at the top than at the bottom; as, a
kit of butter, or of mackerel. Wright.

3. straw or rush basket for fish; also, any kind of basket. [Prov.
Eng.] Halliwell.

4. A box for working implements; hence, a working outfit, as of a
workman, a soldier, and the like.

5. A group of separate parts, things, or individuals; -- used with
whole, and generally contemptuously; as, the whole kit of them.

KITCAT
Kit"cat`, a.

1. Designating a club in London, to which Addison and Steele
belonged; -- so called from Christopher Cat, a pastry cook, who
served the club with mutton pies.

2. Designating a canvas used for portraits of a peculiar size, viz.,
twenty-right or twenty-nine inches by thirtysix; -- so called because
that size was adopted by Sir Godfrey Kneller for the portraits he
painted of the members of the Kitcal Club. Fairholt.

KITCAT
Kit"cat`, n.

Defn: A game played by striking with a stick small piece of wood,
called a cat, shaped like two coned united at their bases; tipcat.
Cotton. Kitcat roll (Agric.), a roller somewhat in the form of two
cones set base to base. [Prov. Eng.]

KITCHEN
Kitch"en, n. Etym: [OE. kichen, kichene, kuchene, AS. cycene, L.
coquina, equiv. to culina a kitchen, fr. coquinus pertaining to
cooking, fr. coquere to cook. See Cook to prepare food, and cf.
Cuisine.]

1. A cookroom; the room of a house appropriated to cookery.
Cool was his kitchen, though his brains were hot. Dryden.
A fat kitchen makes a lean will. Franklin.

2. A utensil for roasting meat; as, a tin kitchen. Kitchen garden.
See under Garden.
 -- Kitchen lee, dirty soapsuds. [Obs.] " A brazen tub of kitchen
lee." Ford.
 -- Kitchen stuff, fat collected from pots and pans. Donne.

KITCHEN
Kitch"en, v. t.

Defn: To furnish food to; to entertain with the fare of the kitchen.
[Obs.] Shak.

KITCHENER
Kitch"en*er, n.

Defn: A kitchen servant; a cook. Carlyle.

KITCHENETTE
Kitch`en*ette", n.  [Kitchen + -ette.]

Defn: A room combining a very small kitchen and a pantry, with the
kitchen conveniences compactly arranged, sometimes so that they fold
up out of sight and allow the kitchen to be made a part of the
adjoining room by opening folding doors.

KITCHENMAID
Kitch"en*maid`, n.

Defn: A woman employed in the kitchen. Shak.

KITCHEN MIDDENS
Kitch"en mid`dens. Etym: [Dan. kjök-kenmöddings kitchen leavings; cf.
Scot. midden a dunghill.]

Defn: Relics of neolithic man found on the coast of Denmark,
consisting of shell mounds, some of which are ten feet high, one
thousand feet long, and two hundred feet wide. The name is applied
also to similar mounds found on the American coast from Canada to
Florida, made by the North American Indians.

KITCHEN-RY
Kitch"en-ry, n.

Defn: The body of servants employed in the kitchen. [Obs.] Holland.

KITE
Kite, n. Etym: [OE. kyte, AS.c; cf. W. cud, cut.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any raptorial bird of the subfamily Milvinæ, of which many
species are known. They have long wings, adapted for soaring, and
usually a forked tail.

Note: The European species are Milvus ictinus and M. govinda; the
sacred or Brahmany kite of India is Haliastur Indus; the American
fork-tailed kite is the Nauclerus furcatus.

2. Fig. : One who is rapacious.
Detested kite, thou liest. Shak.

3. A light frame of wood or other material covered with paper or
cloth, for flying in the air at the end of a string.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A lofty sail, carried only when the wind is light.

5. (Geom.)

Defn: A quadrilateral, one of whose diagonals is an axis of symmetry.
Henrici.

6. Fictitious commercial paper used for raising money or to sustain
credit, as a check which represents no deposit in bank, or a bill of
exchange not sanctioned by sale of goods; an accommodation check or
bill. [Cant]

7. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The brill. [Prov. Eng. ] Flying kites. (Naut.) See under
Flying.
 -- Kite falcon (Zoöl.), an African falcon of the genus Avicida,
having some resemblance to a kite.

KITE
Kite, v. i.

Defn: To raise money by "kites;" as, kiting transactions. See Kite,
6. [Cant]

KITE
Kite, n.

Defn: The belly. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

KITEFLYING; KITEFLIER
Kite"fly`ing, n.

Defn: A mode of raising money, or sustaining one's credit, by the use
of paper which is merely nominal; -- called also kiting.
 -- Kite"fli`er, n.

Defn: See Kite, n., 6. [Cant] McElrath. Thackeray.

KITH
Kith, n. Etym: [OE. kith, cu, AS. cc known. Uncouth, Can, and cf.
Kythe.]

Defn: Acquaintance; kindred.
And my near kith for sore me shend. W. Browne.
The sage of his kith and the hamlet. Longfellow.
Kith and kin, kindred more or less remote.

KITHARA
Kith"a*ra, n.

Defn: See Cithara.

KITHE
Kithe, v. t. [Obs.]

Defn: See Kythe. Chaucer.

KITISH
Kit"ish, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or relating to a kite.

KITLING
Kit"ling, n. Etym: [Kit a kitten + ling: cf. Icel. ketlingr.]

Defn: A young kitten; a whelp. [Obs. or Scot.] B. Jonson.

KITTE
Kit"te, imp.

Defn: of Kit to cut. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KITTEL
Kit"tel, v. t.

Defn: See Kittle, v. t.

KITTEN
Kit"ten, n. Etym: [OE. kiton, a dim. of cat; cf. G.kitze a young cat,
also a female cat, and F. chaton, dim. of chat cat, also E. kitling.
See Cat.]

Defn: A young cat.

KITTEN
Kit"ten, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Kittened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Kittening.]

Defn: To bring forth young, as a cat; to bring forth, as kittens.
Shak. H. Spencer.

KITTENISH
Kit"ten*ish, a.

Defn: Resembling a kitten; playful; as, a kittenish disposition.
Richardson.

KITTIWAKE
Kit"ti*wake, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A northern gull (Rissa tridactyla), inhabiting the coasts of
Europe and America. It is white, with black tips to the wings, and
has but three toes.

KITTLE
Kit"tle, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Kit a kitten.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: To bring forth young, as a cat; to kitten; to litter. [Prov.
Eng. & Scot.]

KITTLE
Kit"tle, v. t. Etym: [Cf. AS. citelian; akin to D. kittelen, G.
kitzeln, Icel. kitla, Sw. kittla, kittsla, Dan. kildre. Cf. Tickle.]

Defn: To tickle. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] [Written also kittel.]
Halliwell. Jamieson.

KITTLE
Kit"tle, a.

Defn: Ticklish; not easily managed; troublesome; difficult; variable.
[Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. Sir W. Scott.

KITTLISH
Kit"tlish, a.

Defn: Ticklish; kittle. Sir W. Scott.

KITTY
Kit"ty, n.

1. A kitten; also, a pet name or calling name for the cat.

2.  [Etym. uncertain.] (Gaming) The percentage taken out of a pool to
pay for refreshments, or for the expenses of the table.  R. F.
Foster.

KITTYSOL
Kit*ty*sol", n. Etym: [Sp. quitasol.]

Defn: The Chinese paper parasol.

KIVA
Ki"va, n. [Hopi name, sacred chamber.]

Defn: A large chamber built under, or in, the houses of a Pueblo
village, used as an assembly room in religious rites or as a men's
dormitory. It is commonly lighted and entered from an opening in the
roof.

KIVE
Kive, n.

Defn: A mash vat. See Keeve. [Obs.]

KIVER
Kiv"er, v. t.

Defn: To cover.
 -- n.

Defn: A cover. [Disused except in illiterate speech.]

KIVIKIVI; KIWIKIWI
Ki`vi*ki"vi, Ki`wi*ki"wi, n.; pl. Kivikivies (Kiwikiwies (. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of Apteryx, esp. A. australis; -- so called in
imitation of its notes. Called also kiwi. See Apteryx.

KJOEKKEN MOEDDINGS
Kjoek"ken moed`dings. Etym: [Dan.]

Defn: See Kitchen middens.

KLAMATHS
Kla"maths, n. pl.; sing. Klamath (Ethnol.)

Defn: A collective name for the Indians of several tribes formerly
living along the Klamath river, in California and Oregon, but now
restricted to a reservation at Klamath Lake; -- called also Clamets
and Hamati.

KLEENEBOC
Kleene"boc` (klen"bôk`), n. Etym: [D. kleen little, small + bok
buck.]

Defn: (Zoöl.) An antelope (Cerphalopus pygmæus), found in South
Africa. It is of very small size, being but one foot high at
shoulder. It is remarkable for its activity, and for its mild and
timid disposition. Called also guevi, and pygmy antelope.

KLEPTOMANIA
Klep`to*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Gr. mania.]

Defn: A propensity to steal, claimed to be irresistible. This does
not constitute legal irresponsibility. Wharton.

KLEPTOMANIAC
Klep`to*ma"ni*ac, n.

Defn: A person affected with kleptomania.

KLICK
Klick, n. & v.

Defn: See Click.

KLICKET
Klick"et, n. Etym: [Cf. Clicket.] (Mil.)

Defn: A small postern or gate in a palisade, for the passage of
sallying parties. [Written also klinket.]

KLINKSTONE
Klink"stone`, n.

Defn: See Clinkstone.

KLINOMETER
Kli*nom"e*ter, n.

Defn: See Clinometer.

KLIPDAS; KLIPDACHS
Klip"das, Klip"dachs`, n. Etym: [D. klip cliff + das badger, akin to
G. dachs.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small mammal (Hyrax Capensis), found in South Africa. It is
of about the size of a rabbit, and closely resembles the daman.
Called also rock rabbit.

KLIPFISH
Klip"fish`, n.

Defn: Dried cod, exported from Norway. [Written also clipfish.]

KLIPSPRINGER
Klip"spring`er, n. Etym: [D., lit., cliff springer.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, graceful South African antelope (Nanotragus
oreotragus), which, like the chamois, springs from one crag to
another with great agility; -- called also kainsi. [Written also
klippspringer.]

KLOOF
Kloof, n. Etym: [D. See Clove a cleft.]

Defn: A glen; a ravine closed at its upper end. [South Africa]

KLOPEMANIA
Klo`pe*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Gr. mania.]

Defn: See Kleptomania.

KNAB
Knab, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knabbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Knabbing.] Etym:
[See Nab, v. t., and cf. Knap, v. t.]

1. To seize with the teeth; to gnaw. "Knabbing crusts." [Obs.]
L'Estrange.

2. To nab. See Nab, v. t. [Colloq.]

KNABBLE
Knab"ble, v. i. Etym: [Freq. of knab.]

Defn: To bite or nibble. [Obs.]
Horses will knabble at walls, and rats gnaw iron. Sir T. Browne.

KNACK
Knack, v. i. Etym: [Prob. of imitative origin; cf. G. knacken to
break, Dan. knage to crack, and E. knock.]

1. To crack; to make a sharp, abrupt noise to chink. [Obs. or Prov.
Eng.] Bp. Hall.

2. To speak affectedly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

KNACK
Knack, n.

1. A petty contrivance; a toy; a plaything; a knickknack.
A knack, a toy, a trick, a baby's cap. Shak.

2. A readiness in performance; aptness at doing something; skill;
facility; dexterity.
The fellow . . . has not the knack with his shears. B. Jonson.
The dean was famous in his time, And had a kind of knack at rhyme.
Swift.

3. Something performed, or to be done, requiring aptness and
dexterity; a trick; a device. "The knacks of japers." Chaucer.
For how should equal colors do the knack ! Pope.

KNACKER
Knack"er, n.

1. One who makes knickknacks, toys, etc. Mortimer.

2. One of two or more pieces of bone or wood held loosely between the
fingers, and struck together by moving the hand; -- called also
clapper. Halliwell.

KNACKER
Knack"er, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel.hnakkr a saddle.]

1. a harness maker. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

2. One who slaughters worn-out horses and sells their flesh for dog's
meat. [Eng.]

KNACKISH
Knack"ish, a.

Defn: Trickish; artful. [Obs.] -- Knack"ish*ness, n. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

KNACK-KNEED
Knack"-kneed`, a.

Defn: See Knock-kneed.

KNACKY
Knack"y, a.

Defn: Having a knack; cunning; crafty; trickish. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
Halliwell.

KNAG
Knag, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. G. knagge a knot in wood, Sw. knagg, Dan.
knag a hook to hand clothes on, a bracket; Gael. & Ir. cnag peg,
knob.]

1. A knot in wood; a protuberance. Wright.

2. A wooden peg for hanging things on. Wright.

3. The prong of an antler Holland.

4. The rugged top of a hill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

KNAGGED
Knag"ged, a.

Defn: Full of knots; knaggy.

KNAGGY
Knag"gy, a.

Defn: Knotty; rough; figuratively, rough in temper. Fuller.
 -- Knag"gi*ness, n.

KNAP
Knap, n. Etym: [AS. cnæp, cnæpp, top, knob, button; cf. Icel. knappr
knob, Sw. knapp, Dan. knap button, W., Gael., & Ir. cnap knob,
button, and E. knop.]

Defn: A protuberance; a swelling; a knob; a button; hence, rising
ground; a summit. See Knob, and Knop.
The highest part and knap of the same island. Holland.

KNAP
Knap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Knapping.] Etym:
[D. knappen to chew, bite, crack, take hold of; prob. of imitative
origin.]

1. To bite; to bite off; to break short. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. ]
He will knap the spears apieces with his teeth. Dr. H. More.
He breaketh the bow, and knappeth the spear in sunder. Ps. xlvi. 9
(Book of Common Prayer.)

2. To strike smartly; to rap; to snap. Bacon.

KNAP
Knap, v. i.

Defn: To make a sound of snapping. Wiseman.

KNAP
Knap, n.

Defn: A sharp blow or slap. Halliwell.

KNAPBOTTLE
Knap"bot`tle, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The bladder campion (Silene inflata).

KNAPPISH
Knap"pish, a. Etym: [See Knap to strike.]

Defn: Snappish; peevish. [Obs.] Grafton.

KNAPPLE
Knap"ple, v. i. Etym: [Freq. of knap, v., cf. D. knabbelen to gnaw.]

Defn: To break off with an abrupt, sharp noise; to bite; to nibble.
[Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

KNAPPY
Knap"py, a.

Defn: Having knaps; full of protuberances or humps; knobby. [Obs.]
Huloet.

KNAPSACK
Knap"sack`, n. Etym: [D. knapzak; knappen to eat + zak a bag. See
Knap, v. t., and Sack.]

Defn: A case of canvas or leather, for carrying on the back a
soldier's necessaries, or the clothing, etc., of a traveler.
And each one fills his knapsack or his scrip With some rare thing
that on the field is found. Drayton.

KNAPWEED
Knap"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The black centaury (Centaurea nigra); -- so called from the
knoblike heads of flowers. Called also bullweed.

KNAR
Knar, n.

Defn: See Gnar. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KNARL
Knar"l, n.

Defn: A knot in wood. See Gnarl.

KNARLED
Knarled, a.

Defn: Knotted. See Gnarled.

KNARRED
Knarred, a.

Defn: Knotty; gnarled.
The knarred and crooked cedar knees. Longfellow.

KNARRY
Knar"ry, a.

Defn: Knotty; gnarled. Chaucer.

KNAVE
Knave, n. Etym: [OE., boy, servant, knave, AS. cnafa boy, youth; cf.
AS. cnapa boy, youth, D. kna, G. knabe boy, knappe esquire, Icel.
knapi, Sw. knape esquire, knäfvel knave.]

1. A boy; especially, a boy servant. [Obs.] Wyclif. Chaucer.
O murderous slumber, Lay'st thou thy leaden mace upon my boy That
plays thee music Gentle knave, good night. Shak.

2. Any male servant; a menial. [Obs.] Chaucer.
He's but Fortune's knave, A minister of her will. Shak.

3. A tricky, deceitful fellow; a dishonest person; a rogue; a
villain. "A pair of crafty knaves." Shak.
In defiance of demonstration, knaves will continue to proselyte
fools. Ames.

Note: "How many serving lads must have been unfaithful and dishonest
before knave -which meant at first no more than boy -- acquired the
meaning which it has now !" Trench.

4. A playing card marked with the figure of a servant or soldier; a
jack. Knave child, a male child. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Villain; cheat; rascal; rogue; scoundrel; miscreant.

KNAVERY
Knav"er*y, n.; pl. Knaveries (.

1. The practices of a knave; petty villainy; fraud; trickery; a
knavish action.
This is flat knavery, to take upon you another man's name. Shak.

2. pl.

Defn: Roguish or mischievous tricks. Shak.

KNAVESHIP
Knave"ship, n.

Defn: A small due, in meal, established by usage, which is paid to
the under miller. [Scot.]

KNAVESS
Knav"ess, n.

Defn: A knavish woman. Carlyle.

KNAVISH
Knav"ish, a.

1. Like or characteristic of a knave; given to knavery; trickish;
fraudulent; dishonest; villainous; as, a knavish fellow, or a knavish
trick. "Knavish politicians." Macaulay.

2. Mischievous; roguish; waggish.
Cupid is knavish lad, Thus to make poor females mad. Shak.

KNAVISHLY
Knav"ish*ly, adv.

1. In a knavish manner; dishonestly; fraudulently. Holland.

2. Mischievously; waggishly; roguishly. "Knavishly witty." Gayton.

KNAVISHNESS
KNav"ish*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being knavish; knavery; dishonesty.

KNAW
Knaw, v. t.

Defn: See Gnaw. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

KNAWEL
Knaw"el, n. Etym: [Akin to G. knauelk, knäuel,prop., a ball of
thread, coil. Cf. Clew.] (Bot.)

Defn: A low, spreading weed (Scleranthus annuus), common in sandy
soil.

KNEAD
Knead, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kneaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Kneading.] Etym:
[OE. kneden, As. cnedan; akin to D. kneden, G. kneten, Sw. kn, Icel.
kno; cf. OSlav.gnesti.]

1. To work and press into a mass, usually with the hands; esp., to
work, as by repeated pressure with the knuckles, into a well mixed
mass, as the materials of bread, cake, etc.; as, to knead dough.
The kneading, the making of the cake, the heating of the oven, and
the baking. Shak.

2. Fig.: To treat or form as by kneading; to beat.
I will knead him : I'll make him supple. Shak.
Kneading trough, a trough or tray in which dough is kneaded. Ex.
viii. 3.

KNEADABLE
Knead"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be kneaded; capable of being worked into a mass.

KNEADER
Knead"er, n.

Defn: One who kneads.

KNEADINGLY
Knead"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of one kneading.

KNEBELITE
Kne"bel*ite, n. Etym: [From Major von Knebel.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a gray, red, brown, or green color, and glistening
luster. It is a silicate of iron and manganese.

KNECK
Kneck, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Naut.)

Defn: The twisting of a rope or cable, as it is running out. [Eng.]

KNEE
Knee, n. Etym: [OE. kne, cneo, As. cneó, cneów; akin to OS. knio,
kneo, OFries. kni, G. & D. knie, OHG. chniu, chneo, Icel. kn, Sw.
knä,Dan. knæ, Goth. kniu, L.genu, Gr. janu, Cf. Genuflection.]

1. In man, the joint in the middle part of the leg.

2. (Anat.)
(a) The joint, or region of the joint, between the thigh and leg.
(b) In the horse and allied animals, the carpal joint, corresponding
to the wrist in man.

3. (Mech. & Shipbuilding)

Defn: A piece of timber or metal formed with an angle somewhat in the
shape of the human knee when bent.

4. A bending of the knee, as in respect or courtesy.
Give them title, knee, and approbation. Shak.
Knee breeches. See under Breeches.
 -- Knee holly, Knee holm (Bot.), butcher's broom.
 -- Knee jerk (Physiol.) a jerk or kick produced by a blow or sudden
strain upon the patellar tendon of the knee, which causes a sudden
contraction of the quadriceps muscle; one of the so-called tendon
reflexes.
 -- Knee joint. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Knee timber, timber with knees or angles in it.
 -- Knee tribute, or Knee worship, tribute paid by kneeling; worship
by genuflection. [Obs.] "Knee tribute yet unpaid." Milton.

KNEE
Knee, v. t.

Defn: To supplicate by kneeling. [Obs.]
Fall down, and knee The way into his mercy. Shak

KNEEBRUSH
Knee"brush`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tuft or brush of hair on the knees of some species of
antelopes and other animals; -- chiefly used in the plural.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A thick mass or collection of hairs on the legs of bees, by aid
of which they carry the collected pollen to the hive or nest; --
usually in the plural.

KNEECAP
Knee"cap`, n.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The kneepan.

2. A cap or protection for the knee.

KNEE-CROOKING
Knee"-crook`ing, a.

Defn: Obsequious; fawning; cringing. "Knee-crooking knave." Shak.

KNEED
Kneed, a.

1. Having knees;- used chiefly in composition; as, in-kneed; out-
kneed; weak-kneed.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Geniculated; forming an obtuse angle at the joints, like the
knee when a little bent; as, kneed grass.

KNEE-DEEP
Knee"-deep`, a.

1. Rising to the knees; knee-high; as, water or snow knee-deep.
Grass knee-deep within a month. Milton.

2. Sunk to the knees; as, men knee-deep in water.
Where knee-deep the trees were standing. Longfellow.

KNEE-HIGH
Knee"-high`, a.

Defn: Rising or reaching upward to the knees; as, the water is knee-
high.

KNEE JERK
Knee jerk. (Physiol.)

Defn: A jerk or kick produced by a blow or sudden strain upon the
patellar tendon of the knee, which causes a sudden contraction of the
quadriceps muscle.

KNEEJOINT
Knee"joint`, n.

1. The joint of the knee.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A toggle joint; -- so called because consisting of two pieces
jointed to each other end to end, making an angle like the knee when
bent.

KNEEJOINTED
Knee"joint`ed, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Geniculate; kneed. See Kneed, a., 2.

KNEEL
Kneel, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Knelt or Kneeled (p. pr. & vb. n.
Kneeling.] Etym: [OE. knelen, cneolien; akin to D. knielen, Dan.
knæle. See Knee.]

Defn: To bend the knee; to fall or rest on the knees; -- sometimes
with down.
And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this
sin to their charge. Acts vii. 60.
As soon as you are dressed, kneel and say the Lord's Prayer. Jer.
Taylor.

KNEELER
Kneel"er, n.

1. One who kneels or who worships by or while kneeling. Tennyson.

2. A cushion or stool to kneel on.

3. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A name given to certain catechumens and penitents who were
permitted to join only in parts of church worship.

KNEELINGLY
Kneel"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a kneeling position.

KNEEPAN
Knee"pan`, n. (Anat.)

Defn: A roundish, flattened, sesamoid bone in the tendon in front of
the knee joint; the patella; the kneecap.

KNEEPIECE
Knee"piece`, n.

Defn: A piece shaped like a knee; as, the kneepieces or ears of a
boat.

KNEIPPISM; KNEIPP'S CURE; KNEIPP CURE
Kneipp"ism, n. Also Kneipp's, or Kneipp, cure.

Defn: Treatment of disease by forms of hydrotherapy, as walking
barefoot in the morning dew, baths, wet compresses, cold affusions,
etc.; -- so called from its originator, Sebastian Kneipp (1821-97), a
German priest.

KNELL
Knell, n. Etym: [OE. knel, cnul, AS. cnyll, fr. cnyllan to sound a
bell; cf. D. & G. knallen to clap, crack, G. & Sw. knall a clap,
crack, loud sound, Dan. knalde to clap, crack. Cf. Knoll, n. & v.]

Defn: The stoke of a bell tolled at a funeral or at the death of a
person; a death signal; a passing bell; hence, figuratively, a
warning of, or a sound indicating, the passing away of anything.
The dead man's knell Is there scarce asked for who. Shak.
The curfew tolls the knell of parting day. Gray.

KNELL
Knell, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Knelled; p. pr. & vb. n. Knelling.] Etym:
[OE. knellen, knillen, As. cnyllan. See Knell, n.]

Defn: To sound as a knell; especially, to toll at a death or funeral;
hence, to sound as a warning or evil omen.
Not worth a blessing nor a bell to knell for thee. Beau. & Fl.
Yet all that poets sing, and grief hath known, Of hopes laid waste,
knells in that word, "alone". Ld. Lytton.

KNELL
Knell, v. t.

Defn: To summon, as by a knell.
Each matin bell, the baron saith, Knells us back to a world of death.
Coleridge.

KNELT
Knelt, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Kneel.

KNEW
Knew, imp.

Defn: of Know.

KNICKER
Knick"er, n. Etym: [D. knikker.]

Defn: A small ball of clay, baked hard and oiled, used as a marble by
boys in playing. [Prov. Eng. & U. S.] Halliwell. Bartlett.

KNICKERBOCKER
Knick"er*bock`er, n.

Defn: A linsey-woolsey fabric having a rough knotted surface on the
right side; used for women's dresses.

KNICKERBOCKERS
Knick"er*bock`ers, n. pl.

Defn: The name for a style of short breeches; smallclothes.

KNICKKNACK
Knick"knack`, n. Etym: [See Knack.]

Defn: A trifle or toy; a bawble; a gewgaw.

KNICKKNACKATORY
Knick"knack`a*to*ry, n.

Defn: A collection of knickknacks. Richardson.

KNICKKNACKERY
Knick"knack`er*y, n.

Defn: Knickknacks.

KNIFE
Knife, n.; pl. Knives. Etym: [OE. knif, AS. cnif; akin to D. knijf,
Icel. knifr, Sw. knif, Dan. kniv.]

1. An instrument consisting of a thin blade, usually of steel and
having a sharp edge for cutting, fastened to a handle, but of many
different forms and names for different uses; as, table knife,
drawing knife, putty knife, pallet knife, pocketknife, penknife,
chopping knife, etc.

2. A sword or dagger.
The coward conquest of a wretch's knife. Shak.
Knife grass (Bot.) a tropical American sedge (Scleria latifolia),
having leaves with a very sharp and hard edge, like a knife.
 -- War to the knife, mortal combat; a conflict carried to the last
extremity.

KNIFE
Knife, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knifed; p. pr. & vb. n. Knifing.]

1. (Hort.)

Defn: To prune with the knife.

2. To cut or stab with a knife. [Low]

KNIFEBOARD
Knife"board`, n.

Defn: A board on which knives are cleaned or polished.

KNIFEEDGE; KNIFE-EDGE
Knife"*edge`, n. (Mech.)

Defn: A piece of steel sharpened to an acute edge or angle, and
resting on a smooth surface, serving as the axis of motion of a
pendulum, scale beam, or other piece required to oscillate with the
least possible friction. Knife-edge file. See Illust. of File.

KNIFE SWITCH
Knife switch. (Elec.)

Defn: A switch consisting of one or more knifelike pieces hinged at
one end and making contact near the other with flat gripping springs.

KNIGHT
Knight, n. Etym: [OE. knight, cniht, knight, soldier, As. cniht,
cneoht, a boy, youth, attendant, military follower; akin to D. & G.
knecht servant; perh. akin to E. kin.]

1. A young servant or follower; a military attendant. [Obs.]

2.
(a) In feudal times, a man-at-arms serving on horseback and admitted
to a certain military rank with special ceremonies, including an oath
to protect the distressed, maintain the right, and live a stainless
life.
(b) One on whom knighthood, a dignity next below that of baronet, is
conferred by the sovereign, entitling him to be addressed as Sir; as,
Sir John. [Eng.] Hence:
(c) A champion; a partisan; a lover. "Give this ring to my true
knight." Shak "In all your quarrels will I be your knight." Tennyson.
Knights, by their oaths, should right poor ladies' harms. Shak.

Note: Formerly, when a knight's name was not known, it was customary
to address him as Sir Knight. The rank of a knight is not hereditary.

3. A piece used in the game of chess, usually bearing a horse's head.

4. A playing card bearing the figure of a knight; the knave or jack.
[Obs.] Carpet knight. See under Carpet.
 -- Knight of industry. See Chevalier d'industrie, under Chevalier.
 -- Knight of Malta, Knight of Rhodes, Knight of St. John of
Jerusalem. See Hospitaler.
 -- Knight of the post, one who gained his living by giving false
evidence on trials, or false bail; hence, a sharper in general.
Nares. "A knight of the post, . . . quoth he, for so I am termed; a
fellow that will swear you anything for twelve pence." -- Nash.
 -- Knight of the shire, in England, one of the representatives of a
county in Parliament, in distinction from the representatives of
cities and boroughs.
 -- Knights commanders, Knights grand cross, different classes of the
Order of the Bath. See under Bath, and Companion. Knights of labor, a
secret organization whose professed purpose is to secure and maintain
the rights of workingmen as respects their relations to their
employers. [U. S.] -- Knights of Pythias, a secret order, founded in
Washington, d.C., in 1864, for social and charitable purposes.
 -- Knights of the Round Table, knights belonging to an order which,
according to the legendary accounts, was instituted by the mythical
King Arthur. They derived their common title from the table around
which they sat on certain solemn days. Brande & C.

KNIGHT
Knight, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knighted; p. pr. & vb. n. Knighting.]

Defn: To dub or create (one) a knight; -- done in England by the
sovereign only, who taps the kneeling candidate with a sword, saying:
Rise, Sir ---.
A soldier, by the honor-giving hand Of Cknighted in the field. Shak.

KNIGHTAGE
Knight"age, n.

Defn: To body of knights, taken collectively.

KNIGHT BACHELOR
Knight" bach"e*lor; pl. Knights bachelors (.

Defn: A knight of the most ancient, but lowest, order of English
knights, and not a member of any order of chivalry. See Bachelor, 4.

KNIGHT BANNERET
Knight" ban"ner*et; pl. Knights bannerets.

Defn: A knight who carried a banner, who possessed fiefs to a greater
amount than the knight bachelor, and who was obliged to serve in war
with a greater number of attendants. The dignity was sometimes
conferred by the sovereign in person on the field of battle.

KNIGHT BARONET
Knight" bar"o-net.

Defn: See Baronet.

KNIGHT-ERRANT
Knight"-er`rant, n.; pl. Knight-errants, or Knights-errant.

Defn: A wandering knight; a knight who traveled in search of
adventures, for the purpose of exhibiting military skill, prowess,
and generosity.

KNIGHT-ERRANTRY
Knight"-er`rant*ry, n.; pl. Knight-errantries (.

Defn: The character or actions of wandering knights; the practice of
wandering in quest of adventures; chivalry; a quixotic or romantic
adventure or scheme.
The rigid guardian [i. e., conscience] of a blameless heart Is weak
with rank knight-erratries o'errun. Young.

KNIGHT-ER-RATIC
Knight"-er-rat"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a knight-errant or to knight-errantry. [R.]
Quart. Rev.

KNIGHTHEAD
Knight"head`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A bollard timber. See under Bollard.

KNIGHTHOOD
Knight"hood, n. Etym: [Knight + hood: cf. AS. chihthad youth.]

1. The character, dignity, or condition of a knight, or of knights as
a class; hence, chivalry. "O shame to knighthood." Shak.
If you needs must write, write Cæsar's praise; You 'll gain at least
a knighthood, or the bays. Pope.

2. The whole body of knights.
The knighthood nowadays are nothing like the knighthood of old time.
Chapman.

Note: "When the order of knighthood was conferred with full solemnity
in the leisure of a court or court or city, imposing preliminary
ceremonies were required of the candidate. He prepared himself by
prayer and fasting, watched his arms at night in a chapel, and was
then admitted with the performance of religious rites. Knighthood was
conferred by the accolade, which, from the derivation of the name,
would appear to have been originally an embrace; but afterward
consisted, as it still does, in a blow of the flat of a sword on the
back of the kneeling candidate." Brande & C.

KNIGHTLESS
Knight"less, a.

Defn: Unbecoming a knight. [Obs.] "Knightless guile." Spenser.

KNIGHTLINESS
Knight"li*ness, n.

Defn: The character or bearing suitable for a knight; chivalry.
Spenser.

KNIGHTLY
Knight`ly, a. Etym: [AS. cnihtlic boyish.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a knight; becoming a knight; chivalrous;
as, a knightly combat; a knightly spirit.
For knightly jousts and fierce encounters fit. Spenser.
[Excuses] full knightly without scorn. Tennyson.

KNIGHTLY
Knight"ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner becoming a knight.
And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms. Shak.

KNIGHT MARSHAL
Knight" mar"shal. (Eng. Law)

Defn: An officer in the household of the British sovereign, who has
cognizance of transgressions within the royal household and verge,
and of contracts made there, a member of the household being one of
the parties. Wharton.

KNIGHT SERVICE
Knight" serv"ice. (Eng. Feud. Law)

Defn: A tenure of lands held by knights on condition of performing
military service. See Chivalry, n., 4.

KNIGHT SERVICE; KNIGHT'S SERVICE
Knight service. Also Knight's service.

1.  (Feud. Law) The military service by rendering which a knight held
his lands; also, the tenure of lands held on condition of performing
military service.

By far the greater part of England [in the 13th century] is held of
the king by knight's service. . . . In order to understand this
tenure we must form the conception of a unit of military service.
That unit seems to be the service of one knight or fully armed
horseman (servitium unius militis) to be done to the king in his army
for forty days in the year, if it be called for. . . . The limit of
forty days seems to have existed rather in theory than practice.
Pollock & Mait.

2.  Service such as a knight can or should render; hence, good or
valuable service.

KNIGHT'S FEE
Knight's fee. (Feudal Law)

Defn: The fee of a knight; specif., the amount of land the holding of
which imposed the obligation of knight service, being sometimes a
hide or less, sometimes six or more hides.

KNIGHT TEMPLAR
Knight" Tem"plar; pl. Knights Templars (.

Defn: See Commandery, n., 3, and also Templar, n., 1 and 3.

KNIT
Knit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knit or Knitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Knitting.]
Etym: [OE. knitten, knutten, As. cnyttan, fr. cnotta knot; akin to
Icel. kn, Sw. knyta, Dan. knytte. See Knot.]

1. To form into a knot, or into knots; to tie together, as cord; to
fasten by tying.
A great sheet knit at the four corners. Acts x. 11.
When your head did but ache, I knit my handkercher about your brows.
Shak.

2. To form, as a textile fabric, by the interlacing of yarn or thread
in a series of connected loops, by means of needles, either by hand
or by machinery; as, to knit stockings.

3. To join; to cause to grow together.
Nature can not knit the bones while the parts are under a discharge.
Wiseman.

4. To unite closely; to connect; to engage; as, hearts knit together
in love.
Thy merit hath my duty strongly knit. Shak.
Come , knit hands, and beat the ground, In a light fantastic round.
Milton.
A link among the days, toknit The generations each to each. Tennyson.

5. To draw together; to contract into wrinkles.
knits his brow and shows an angry eye. Shak.

KNIT
Knit, v. i.

1. To form a fabric by interlacing yarn or thread; to weave by making
knots or loops.

2. To be united closely; to grow together; as, broken bones will in
time knit and become sound. To knit up, to wind up; to conclude; to
come to a close. "It remaineth to knit up briefly with the nature and
compass of the seas." [Obs.] Holland.

KNIT
Knit, n.

Defn: Union knitting; texture. Shak.

KNITBACK
Knit"back`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The plant comfrey; -- so called from its use as a restorative.
Dr. Prier.

KNITCH; KNITCHET
Knitch, Knitch"et, n. Etym: [Cf. Knit.]

Defn: A number of things tied or knit together; a bundle; a fagot.
[Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
When they [stems of asphodel] be dried, they ought to be made up into
knitchets, or handfuls. Holland.

KNITS
Knits, n. pl. Etym: [Prob. same word as nit a louse's egg.] (Mining)

Defn: Small particles of ore. Raymond.

KNITSTER
Knit"ster, n.

Defn: A woman who knits. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

KNITTER
Knit"ter, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, knits, joins, or unites; a knitting
machine. Shak.

KNITTING
Knit"ting, n.

1. The work of a knitter; the network formed by knitting.

2. Union formed by knitting, as of bones. Knitting machine, one of a
number of contrivances for mechanically knitting stockings, jerseys,
and the like.
 -- Knitting , a stiff rod, as of steel wire, with rounded ends for
knitting yarn or threads into a fabric, as in stockings.
 -- Knitting sheath, a sheath to receive the end of a needle in
knitting.

KNITTLE
Knit"tle, n. Etym: [From Knit.]

1. A string that draws together a purse or bag. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

2. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: See Nettles.

KNIVES
Knives, n. pl.

Defn: of Knife. See Knife.

KNOB
Knob, n. Etym: [A modification of knop. Cf. Nob.]

1. A hard protuberance; a hard swelling or rising; a bunch; a lump;
as, a knob in the flesh, or on a bone.

2. A knoblike ornament or handle; as, the knob of a lock, door, or
drawer. Chaucer.

3. A rounded hill or mountain; as, the Pilot Knob. [U. S.] Bartlett.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: See Knop. Knob latch, a latch which can be operated by turning
a knob, without using a key.

KNOB
Knob, v. i.

Defn: To grow into knobs or bunches; to become knobbed. [Obs.] Drant.

KNOBBED
Knobbed, a.

Defn: Containing knobs; full of knobs; ending in a nob. See Illust of
Antenna.
The horns of a roe deer of Greenland are pointed at the top, and
knobbed or tuberous at the bottom. Grew.

KNOBBER
Knob"ber, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Knobbler.

KNOBBING
Knob"bing, n. (Stone Quarrying)

Defn: Rough dressing by knocking off knobs or projections.

KNOBBLER
Knob"bler, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hart in its second year; a young deer. [Written also
knobber.] Halliwell.
He has hallooed the hounds upon a velvet-headed knobbler. Sir W.
Scott.

KNOBBLING FIRE
Knob"bling fire

Defn: . A bloomery fire. See Bloomery.

KNOBBY
Knob"by, a. Etym: [From Knob.]

1. Full of, or covered with, knobs or hard protuberances. Dr. H.
More.

2. Irregular; stubborn in particulars. [Obs.]
The informers continued in a knobby kind of obstinacy. Howell.

3. Abounding in rounded hills or mountains; hilly. [U.S.] Bartlett.

KNOBKERRIE
Knob"ker`rie, n. [Boer D. knopkirie, fr. D. knop-hout, knotty stick +
Hottentot kïrri  club.]

Defn: A short club with a knobbed end used as a missile weapon by
Kafir and other native tribes of South Africa.

KNOBSTICK
Knob"stick`, n.

Defn: One who refuses to join, or withdraws from, a trades union.
[Cant, Eng.]

KNOCK
Knock, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Knocked; p. pr. & vb. n. Knocking.] Etym:
[OE. knoken, AS. cnocian, cnucian; prob. of imitative origin; cf. Sw.
knacka.Cf. Knack.]

1. To drive or be driven against something; to strike against
something; to clash; as, one heavy body knocks against another.
Bacon.

2. To strike or beat with something hard or heavy; to rap; as, to
knock with a club; to knock on the door.
For harbor at a thousand doors they knocked. Dryden.
Seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
Matt. vii. 7.
To knock about, to go about, taking knocks or rough usage; to wander
about; to saunter. [Colloq.] "Knocking about town." W. Irving.
 -- To knock up, to fail of strength; to become wearied or worn out,
as with labor; to give out. "The horses were beginning to knock up
under the fatigue of such severe service." De Quincey.
 -- To knock off, to cease, as from work; to desist.
 -- To knock under, to yield; to submit; to acknowledge one's self
conquered; -- an expression probably borrowed from the practice of
knocking under the table with the knuckles, when conquered. "Colonel
Esmond knocked under to his fate." Thackeray.

KNOCK
Knock, v. t.

1. To strike with something hard or heavy; to move by striking; to
drive (a thing) against something; as, to knock a ball with a bat; to
knock the head against a post; to knock a lamp off the table.
When heroes knock their knotty heads together. Rowe.

2. To strike for admittance; to rap upon, as a door.
Master, knock the door hard. Shak.
To knock down. (a) To strike down; to fell; to prostrate by a blow or
by blows; as, to knock down an assailant. (b) To assign to a bidder
at an auction, by a blow or knock; to knock off.
 -- To knock in the head, or on the head, to stun or kill by a blow
upon the head; hence, to put am end to; to defeat, as a scheme or
project; to frustrate; to quash. [Colloq.] -- To knock off. (a) To
force off by a blow or by beating. (b) To assign to a bidder at an
auction, by a blow on the counter. (c) To leave off (work, etc.).
[Colloq.] -- To knock out, to force out by a blow or by blows; as, to
knock out the brains.
 -- To knock up. (a) To arouse by knocking. (b) To beat or tire out;
to fatigue till unable to do more; as, the men were entirely knocked
up. [Colloq.] "The day being exceedingly hot, the want of food had
knocked up my followers." Petherick. (c) (Bookbinding) To make even
at the edges, or to shape into book form, as printed sheets.

KNOCK
Knock, n.

1. A blow; a stroke with something hard or heavy; a jar.

2. A stroke, as on a door for admittance; a rap. " A knock at the
door." Longfellow.
A loud cry or some great knock. Holland.
Knock off, a device in a knitting machine to remove loops from the
needles.

KNOCKABOUT
Knock"a*bout`, a.

1. Marked by knocking about or roughness.

2.  Of noisy and violent character. [Theat. Slang]

3.  Characterized by, or suitable for, knocking about, or traveling
or wandering hither and thither.

4.  That does odd jobs; -- said of a class of hands or laborers on a
sheep station. [Collog., Australia]

KNOCKABOUT
Knock"a*bout`, n.

1. (Naut.) A small yacht, generally from fifteen to twenty-five feet
in length, having a mainsail and a jib.  All knockabouts have ballast
and either a keel or centerboard.  The original type was twenty-one
feet in length.  The next larger type is called a raceabout.

2. A knockabout performer or performance. [Theat. Slang]

3. A man hired on a sheep station to do odd jobs. [Colloq.,
Australia]

KNOCKDOWN
Knock"down`, n.

Defn: A felling by a knock, as of a combatant, or of an animal.

KNOCKDOWN
Knock"down`, a.

Defn: Of force sufficient to fell or completely overthrow; as, a
knockdown blow; a knockdown argument. [Colloq.]

KNOCKER
Knock"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, knocks; specifically, an instrument, or
kind of hammer, fastened to a door, to be used in seeking for
admittance.
Shut, shut the door, good John ! fatigued, knocker; say I'm sick, I'm
dead. Pope.

KNOCKING
Knock"ing, n.

Defn: A beating; a rap; a series of raps.
The . . . repeated knockings of the head upon the ground by the
Chinese worshiper. H. Spencer.

KNOCKINGS
Knock"ings, n. pl. (Mining)

Defn: Large lumps picked out of the sieve, in dressing ore.

KNOCK-KNEE
Knock"-knee`, n. (Med.)

Defn: A condition in which the knees are bent in so as to touch each
other in walking; inknee.

KNOCK-KNEED
Knock"-kneed`, a.

Defn: Having the legs bent inward so that the knees touch in walking.
[Written also knack-kneed.]

KNOCK-OFF
Knock"-off`, a.

Defn: That knocks off; of or pertaining to knocking off.

KNOCK-OFF
Knock"-off`, n.

Defn: Act or place of knocking off; that which knocks off; specif.
(Mach.),

Defn: a cam or the like for disconnecting something, as a device in a
knitting machine to remove loops from the needles.

KNOCK-OUT
Knock"-out`, n.

Defn: Act of knocking out, or state of being knocked out.

KNOCK-OUT
Knock"-out`, a.

Defn: That knocks out; characterized by knocking out; as, a knock-out
blow; a knock-out key for knocking out a drill from a collet.

KNOCK-OUT DROPS
Knock-out drops.

Defn: Drops of some drug put in one's drink to stupefy him for
purpose of robbery, etc. [Slang, U. S.]

KNOCKSTONE
Knock"stone`, n. (Mining)

Defn: A block upon which ore is broken up.

KNOLL
Knoll, n. Etym: [AS. cnoll; akin to G. knolle, knollen, clod, lump,
knob, bunch, OD. knolle ball, bunch, Sw. knöl, Dan. knold.]

Defn: A little round hill; a mound; a small elevation of earth; the
top or crown of a hill.
On knoll or hillock rears his crest, Lonely and huge, the giant oak.
Sir W. Scott.

KNOLL
Knoll, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knolled; p. pr. & vb. n. Knolling.] Etym:
[OE. knollen, AS. cnyllan. See Knell.]

Defn: To ring, as a bell; to strike a knell upon; to toll; to
proclaim, or summon, by ringing. "Knolled to church." Shak.
Heavy clocks knolling the drowsy hours. Tennyson.

KNOLL
Knoll, v. i.

Defn: To sound, as a bell; to knell. Shak.
For a departed being's soul The death hymn peals, and the hollow
bells knoll. Byron.

KNOLL
Knoll, n.

Defn: The tolling of a bell; a knell. [R.] Byron.

KNOLLER
Knoll"er, n.

Defn: One who tolls a bell. [Obs.] Sherwood.

KNOP
Knop, n. Etym: [OE. knop, knoppe; cf. D.knop, knoop, G. knopf, Dan.
knap, knop, Sw. knapp, knopp, button, bud, Icel. knappr, and E. knap,
n. Cf. Knap, Knob.]

1. A knob; a bud; a bunch; a button.
Four bowls made like unto almonds, with their knops and their
flowers. Ex. xxv. 21.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Any boldly projecting sculptured ornament; esp., the ornamental
termination of a pinnacle, and then synonymous with finial; -- called
also knob, and knosp. Knop sedge (Bot.), the bur reed (Sparganium); -
- so called from its globular clusters of seed vessels. Prior.

KNOPPED
Knopped, a.

Defn: Having knops or knobs; fastened as with buttons. [Obs.] Rom. of
R.

KNOPPERN
Knop"pern, n. Etym: [Cf. G. knopper. See Knop.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of gall produced by a gallfly on the cup of an acorn, --
used in tanning and dyeing.

KNOPWEED
Knop"weed`, n.

Defn: Same as Knapweed.

KNOR
Knor, n.

Defn: See Knur. [Obs.]

KNOSP
Knosp, n. Etym: [Cf. G. knospe bud, E. knop, knar.] (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Knop,2. Milman.

KNOT
Knot, n. Etym: [OE. knot, knotte, AS. cnotta; akin to D. knot, OHG.
chnodo, chnoto, G. knoten, Icel. kn, Sw. knut, Dan. knude, and perh.
to L. nodus. Cf. Knout, Knit.]

1.
(a) A fastening together of the pars or ends of one or more threads,
cords, ropes, etc., by any one of various ways of tying or
entangling.
(b) A lump or loop formed in a thread, cord, rope. etc., as at the
end, by tying or interweaving it upon itself.
(c) An ornamental tie, as of a ribbon.

Note: The names of knots vary according to the manner of their
making, or the use for which they are intended; as, dowknot, reef
knot, stopper knot, diamond knot, etc.

2. A bond of union; a connection; a tie. "With nuptial knot." Shak.
Ere we knit the knot that can never be loosed. Bp. Hall.

3. Something not easily solved; an intricacy; a difficulty; a
perplexity; a problem.
Knots worthy of solution. Cowper.
A man shall be perplexed with knots, and problems of business, and
contrary affairs. South.

4. A figure the lines of which are interlaced or intricately
interwoven, as in embroidery, gardening, etc. "Garden knots." Bacon.
Flowers worthy of paradise, which, not nice art In beds and curious
knots, but nature boon Poured forth profuse on hill, and dale, and
plain. Milton.

5. A cluster of persons or things; a collection; a group; a hand; a
clique; as, a knot of politicians. "Knots of talk." Tennyson.
His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries. Shak.
Palms in cluster, knots of Paradise. Tennyson.
As they sat together in small, separate knots, they discussed
doctrinal and metaphysical points of belief. Sir W. Scott.

6. A portion of a branch of a tree that forms a mass of woody fiber
running at an angle with the grain of the main stock and making a
hard place in the timber. A loose knot is generally the remains of a
dead branch of a tree covered by later woody growth.

7. A knob, lump, swelling, or protuberance.
With lips serenely placid, felt the knot Climb in her throat.
Tennyson.

8. A protuberant joint in a plant.

9. The point on which the action of a story depends; the gist of a
matter. [Obs.]
I shoulde to the knotte condescend, And maken of her walking soon an
end. Chaucer.

10. (Mech.)

Defn: See Node.

11. (Naut.)
(a) A division of the log line, serving to measure the rate of the
vessel's motion. Each knot on the line bears the same proportion to a
mile that thirty seconds do to an hour. The number of knots which run
off from the reel in half a minute, therefore, shows the number of
miles the vessel sails in an hour. Hence:
(b) A nautical mile, or 6080.27 feet; as, when a ship goes eight
miles an hour, her speed is said to be eight knots.

12. A kind of epaulet. See Shoulder knot.

13. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sandpiper (Tringa canutus), found in the northern parts of
all the continents, in summer. It is grayish or ashy above, with the
rump and upper tail coverts white, barred with dusky. The lower parts
are pale brown, with the flanks and under tail coverts white. When
fat it is prized by epicures. Called also dunne.

Note: The name is said to be derived from King Canute, this bird
being a favorite article of food with him.
The knot that called was Canutus' bird of old, Of that great king of
Danes his name that still doth hold, His appetite to please that far
and near was sought. Drayton.

KNOT
Knot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Knotting.]

1. To tie in or with, or form into, a knot or knots; to form a knot
on, as a rope; to entangle. "Knotted curls." Drayton.
As tight as I could knot the noose. Tennyson.

2. To unite closely; to knit together. Bacon.

3. To entangle or perplex; to puzzle. [Obs. or R.]

KNOT
Knot, v. i.

1. To form knots or joints, as in a cord, a plant, etc.; to become
entangled.
Cut hay when it begins to knot. Mortimer.

2. To knit knots for fringe or trimming.

3. To copulate; -- said of toads. [R.] Shak.

KNOTBERRY
Knot"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The cloudberry (Rudus Chamæmorus); -- so called from its
knotted stems.

KNOTGRASS
Knot"grass`, n. (Bot.)
(a) a common weed with jointed stems (Polygonum aviculare); knotweed.
(b) The dog grass. See under Dog.

Note: An infusion of Polygonum aviculare was once supposed to have
the effect of stopping the growth of an animal, and hence it was
called, as by Shakespeare, "hindering knotgrass."
We want a boy extremely for this function, Kept under for a year with
milk and knotgrass. Beau. & Fl.

KNOTLESS
Knot"less, a.

Defn: Free from knots; without knots. "Silver firs with knotless
trunks." Congreve.

KNOTTED
Knot"ted, a.

1. Full of knots; having knots knurled; as, a knotted cord; the
knotted oak. Dryden.

2. Interwoven; matted; entangled.
Make . . . thy knotted and combined locks to part. Shak.

3. Having intersecting lines or figures.
The west corner of thy curious knotted garden. Shak.

4. (Geol.)

Defn: Characterized by small, detached points, chiefly composed of
mica, less decomposable than the mass of the rock, and forming knots
in relief on the weathered surface; as, knotted rocks. Percival.

5. Entangled; puzzling; knotty. [R.]
They're catched in knotted lawlike nets. Hudibras.

KNOTTINESS
Knot"ti*ness, n. Etym: [From Knotty.]

1. The quality or state of being knotty or full of knots.

2. Difficulty of solution; intricacy; complication. " Knottiness of
his style." Hare.

KNOTTY
Knot"ty, a. [Compar. Knottier; superl. Knottiest.]

1. Full of knots; knotted; having many knots; as, knotty timber; a
knotty rope.

2. Hard; rugged; as, a knotty head.[R.] Rewe.

3. Difficult; intricate; perplexed.
A knotty point to which we now proceed Pope.

KNOTWEED
Knot"weed", n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Knot.

KNOTWORT
Knot"wort, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A small, herbaceous, trailing plant, of the genus Illecebrum
(I. verticillatum.)

KNOUT
Knout (nout or nt), n. Etym: [Russ. knut'; prob. of Scand. origin;
cf. Sw. knut knot, knout, Icel. kn knot: cf. F. knout. See Knot.]

Defn: A kind of whip for flogging criminals, formerly much used in
Russia. The last is a tapering bundle of leather thongs twisted with
wire and hardened, so that it mangles the flesh.

KNOUT
Knout, v. t.

Defn: To punish with the knout Brougham.

KNOW
Know, n.

Defn: Knee. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KNOW
Know, v. t. [imp. Knew; p. p. Known; p. pr. & vb. n. Knowing.] Etym:
[OE. knowen, knawen, AS. cnäwan; akin to OHG. chnäan (in comp.),
Icel. knä to be able, Russ, znate to know, L. gnoscere, noscere, Gr.
jn; fr. the root of E. can, v. i., ken. (Ken, Can to be able, and cf.
Acquaint, Cognition, Gnome, Ignore, Noble, Note.]

1. To perceive or apprehend clearly and certainly; to understand; to
have full information of; as, to know one's duty.
O, that a man might know The end of this day's business ere it come!
Shak.
There is a certainty in the proposition, and we know it. Dryden.
Know how sublime a thing it is To suffer and be strong. Longfellow.

2. To be convinced of the truth of; to be fully assured of; as, to
know things from information.

3. To be acquainted with; to be no stranger to; to be more or less
familiar with the person, character, etc., of; to possess experience
of; as, to know an author; to know the rules of an organization.
He hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin. 2 Cor. v. 21.
Not to know me argues yourselves unknown. Milton.

4. To recognize; to distinguish; to discern the character of; as, to
know a person's face or figure.
Ye shall know them by their fruits. Matt. vil. 16.
And their eyes were opened, and they knew him. Luke xxiv. 31.
To know Faithful friend from flattering foe. Shak.
At nearer view he thought he knew the dead. Flatman.

5. To have sexual commerce with.
And Adam knew Eve his wife. Gen. iv. 1.

Note: Know is often followed by an objective and an infinitive (with
or without to) or a participle, a dependent sentence, etc.
And I knew that thou hearest me always. John xi. 42.
The monk he instantly knew to be the prior. Sir W. Scott.
In other hands I have known money do good. Dickens.
To know how, to understand the manner, way, or means; to have
requisite information, intelligence, or sagacity. How is sometimes
omitted. " If we fear to die, or know not to be patient." Jer.
Taylor.

KNOW
Know, v. i.

1. To have knowledge; to have a clear and certain perception; to
possess wisdom, instruction, or information; -- often with of.
Israel doth not know, my people doth not consider. Is. i. 3.
If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether
it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. John vii. 17.
The peasant folklore of Europe still knows of willows that bleed and
weep and speak when hewn. Tylor.

2. To be assured; to feel confident. To know of,to ask, to inquire.
[Obs.] " Know of your youth, examine well your blood." Shak.

KNOWABLE
Know"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be known; capable of being discovered, understood, or
ascertained.
Thus mind and matter, as known or knowable, are only two different
series of phenomena or qualities. Sir W. Hamilton.

KNOWABLENESS
Know"a* ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being knowable. Locke.

KNOW-ALL
Know"-all`, n.

Defn: One who knows everything; hence, one who makes pretension to
great knowledge; a wiseacre; -- usually ironical. [Colloq. or R.]

KNOWER
Know"er, n.

Defn: One who knows. Shak.

KNOWING
Know"ing, a.

1. Skilful; well informed; intelligent; as, a knowing man; a knowing
dog.
The knowing and intelligent part of the world. South.

2. Artful; cunning; as, a knowing rascal. [Colloq.]

KNOWING
Know"ing, n.

Defn: Knowledge; hence, experience. " In my knowing." Shak.
This sore night Hath trifled former knowings. Shak.

KNOWINGLY
Know"ing*ly, adv.

1. With knowledge; in a knowing manner; intelligently; consciously;
deliberately; as, he would not knowingly offend. Strype.

2. By experience. [Obs.] Shak.

KNOWINGNESS
Know"ing*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being knowing or intelligent;
shrewdness; skillfulness.

KNOWLECHE
Knowl"eche, n. & v. [Obs.]

Defn: See Knowl, edge.
We consider and knowleche that we have offended. Chaucer.

KNOWLECHING
Knowl"ech*ing, n.

Defn: Knowledge. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KNOWLEDGE
Knowl"edge, n. Etym: [OE. knowlage, knowlege, knowleche, knawleche.
The last part is the Icel. suffix -leikr, forming abstract nouns,
orig. the same as Icel. leikr game, play, sport, akin to AS. lac,
Goth. laiks dance. See Know, and cf. Lake, v. i., Lark a frolic.]

1. The act or state of knowing; clear perception of fact, truth, or
duty; certain apprehension; familiar cognizance; cognition.
Knowledge, which is the highest degree of the speculative faculties,
consists in the perception of the truth of affirmative or negative
propositions. Locke.

2. That which is or may be known; the object of an act of knowing; a
cognition; -- chiefly used in the plural.
There is a great difference in the delivery of the mathematics, which
are the most abstracted of knowledges. Bacon.
Knowledges is a term in frequent use by Bacon, and, though now
obsolete, should be revived, as without it we are compelled to borrow
"cognitions" to express its import. Sir W. Hamilton.
To use a word of Bacon's, now unfortunately obsolete, we must
determine the relative value of knowledges. H. Spencer.

3. That which is gained and preserved by knowing; instruction;
acquaintance; enlightenment; learning; scholarship; erudition.
Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth. 1 Cor. viii. 1.
Ignorance is the curse of God; -Knowledge, the wing wherewith we fly
to heaven. Shak.

4. That familiarity which is gained by actual experience; practical
skill; as, a knowledge of life.
Shipmen that had knowledge of the sea. 1 Kings ix. 27.

5. Scope of information; cognizance; notice; as, it has not come to
my knowledge.
Why have I found grace in thine eyes, that thou shouldst take
knowledge of me Ruth ii. 10.

6. Sexual intercourse; -- usually preceded by carnal; as, carnal
knowledge.

Syn.
 -- See Wisdom.

KNOWLEDGE
Knowl"edge, v. t.

Defn: To acknowledge. [Obs.] "Sinners which knowledge their sins."
Tyndale.

KNOWN
Known, p. p.

Defn: of Know.

KNOW-NOTHING
Know"-noth`ing, n.

Defn: A member of a secret political organization in the United
States, the chief objects of which were the proscription of
foreigners by the repeal of the naturalization laws, and the
exclusive choice of native Americans for office.

Note: The party originated in 1853, and existed for about three
years. The members of it were called Know-nothings, because they
replied "I don't know," to any questions asked them in reference to
the party.

KNOW-NOTHINGISM
Know"-noth`ing*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines, principles, or practices, of the Know-nothings.

KNUBS
Knubs, n. pl.

Defn: Waste silk formed in winding off the threads from a cocoon.

KNUCKLE
Knuc"kle, n. Etym: [OE. knokel, knokil, AS. cuncel; akin to D.
knokkel, OFries. knokele, knokle, G. knöchel, Sw. knoge, Dan.
knokkel, G. knochen bone, and perh. to E. knock.]

1. The joint of a finger, particularly when made prominent by the
closing of the fingers. Davenant.

2. The kneejoint, or middle joint, of either leg of a quadruped,
especially of a calf; -- formerly used of the kneejoint of a human
being.
With weary knuckles on thy brim she kneeled sadly down. Golding.

3. The joint of a plant. [Obs.] Bacon.

4. (Mech.)

Defn: The joining pars of a hinge through which the pin or rivet
passes; a knuckle joint.

5. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A convex portion of a vessel's figure where a sudden change of
shape occurs, as in a canal boat, where a nearly vertical side joins
a nearly flat bottom.

6. A contrivance, usually of brass or iron, and furnished with
points, worn to protect the hand, to add force to a blow, and to
disfigure the person struck; as, brass knuckles; -- called also
knuckle duster. [Slang.] Knuckle joint (Mach.), a hinge joint, in
which a projection with an eye, on one piece, enters a jaw between
two corresponding projections with eyes, on another piece, and is
retained by a pin which passes through the eyes and forms the pivot.
 -- Knuckle of veal (Cookery), the lower part of a leg of veal, from
the line of the body to the knuckle.

KNUCKLE
Knuc"kle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Knuckled;; p. pr. & vb. n. Knuckling.]

Defn: To yield; to submit; -- used with down, to, or under. To
knuckle to. (a) To submit to in a contest; to yield to. [Colloq.] See
To knock under, under Knock, v. i. (b) To apply one's self vigorously
or earnestly to; as, to knuckle to work. [Colloq.]

KNUCKLE
Knuc"kle, v. t.

Defn: To beat with the knuckles; to pommel. [R.] Horace Smith.

KNUCKLED
Knuc"kled, a.

Defn: Jointed. [Obs.] Bacon.

KNUFF
Knuff, n. Etym: [Cf. Cnof a churl.]

Defn: A lout; a clown. [Obs.]
The country knuffs, Hob, Dick, and Hick, With clubs and clouted
shoon. Hayward.

KNUR
Knur, n. Etym: [See Knurl.]

Defn: A knurl. Woodward.

KNURL
Knurl, n. Etym: [See Knar, Gnar.]

Defn: A contorted knot in wood; a crossgrained protuberance; a
nodule; a boss or projection.

2. One who, or that which, is crossgrained.

KNURL
Knurl, v. t.

Defn: To provide with ridges, to assist the grasp, as in the edge of
a flat knob, or coin; to mill.

KNURLED
Knurled, a.

1. Full of knots; gnarled.

2. Milled, as the head of a screw, or the edge of a coin.

KNURLY
Knurl"y, [Compar. Knurlier (; superl. Knurliest.] Etym: [See Knur,
and cf. Gnarly.]

Defn: Full of knots; hard; tough; hence, capable of enduring or
resisting much.

KNURRY
Knur"ry, a.

Defn: Full of knots. [Obs.] Drayton.

KOAITA
Ko*ai"ta, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Coaita.

KOALA
Ko*a"la, n.

Defn: A tailless marsupial (Phascolarctos cinereus), found in
Australia. The female carries her young on the back of her neck.
Called also Australian bear, native bear, and native sloth.

KOB; KOBA
Kob, Ko"ba, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of African antelopes of the genus
Kobus, esp. the species Kobus sing-sing.

KOBALT
Ko"balt, n.

Defn: See Cobalt.

KOBELLITE
Ko"bel*lite, n. Etym: [From Franz von Kobell, of Munich.] (Min.)

Defn: A blackish gray mineral, a sulphide of antimony, bismuth, and
lead.

KOBOLD
Ko"bold, n. Etym: [G., perh. orig., house god, hose protector. See
Cobalt]

Defn: A kind of domestic spirit in German mythology, corresponding to
the Scottish brownie and the English Robin Goodfellow.

KODAK
Ko"dak, n.

Defn: A kind of portable camera.

KOEL
Ko"el, n. Etym: [Native name in India.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of cuckoos of the genus Eudynamys,
found in India, the East Indies, and Australia. They deposit their
eggs in the nests of other birds.

KOFF
Koff, n. Etym: [D. kof.]

Defn: A two-masted Dutch vessel.

KOFTGARI
Koft`ga*ri", a. [Hind. koft garï goldbeating. fr. Per. koft beating +
garï trade.]

Defn: Ornamental work produced by inlaying steel with gold, -- a
variety of damascening much used in the arts of India.

KOHINOOR; KOHNUR
Koh`i*noor", Koh`*nur, n. Etym: [Per. koh-i-n, lit., mountain of
light.]

Defn: A famous diamond, surrendered to the British crown on the
annexation of the Punjab. According to Hindoo legends, it was found
in a Golconda mine, and has been the property of various Hindoo and
Persian rulers.

KOHL
Kohl, n. Etym: [See Alcohol.]

Defn: A mixture of soot and other ingredients, used by Egyptian and
other Eastern women to darken the edges of the eyelids.

KOHL-RABI
Kohl"-ra`bi, n.; pl. Kohl-rabies. Etym: [G. Cf. Cole, Rape the
plant.] (Bot.)

Defn: A variety of cabbage, in which the edible part is a large,
turnip-shaped swelling of the stem, above the surface of the ground.

KOKAMA
Ko*ka"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gemsbok.

KOKLASS
Ko"klass, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any pheasant of the genus Pucrasia. The birds of this genus
inhabit India and China, and are distinguished by having a long
central and two lateral crests on the head. Called also pucras.

KOKOON
Ko*koon", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gnu.

KOLA; KOLA NUT
Ko"la, Kola nut .

Defn: Same as Cola, Cola nut.

KOLARIAN
Ko*la"ri*an, n. (Ethnol.)

Defn: An individual of one of the races of aboriginal inhabitants
which survive in Hindostan.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Kolarians.

KOLINSKY
Ko*lin"sky, n. [Russ. kolinski of Kola, a district in northeasten
Russia where the finest minks abound.]

Defn: Among furriers, any of several Asiatic minks; esp., Putorius
sibiricus, the yellowish brown pelt of which is valued, esp. for the
tail, used for making artists' brushes. Trade names for the fur are
red sable and Tatar sable.

KOLUSCHAN; KOLUSHAN
Ko*lusch"an, Ko*lush"an, a. [From Russ. kalyushka piece of wood (worn
in the nether lip).]

Defn: Designating, or pert. to, a linguistic stock of North American
Indians comprising the Tlinkit tribes of the Alexander Archipelago of
southeastern Alaska and adjacent coast lands. Their language bears
some affinity to Mexican tongues.

KOMENIC
Ko*me"nic, a. Etym: [Prob. G. mekonin (by transposition of letters) +
-ic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived from
meconic acid. [Written also comenic.]

KOMTOK
Kom"tok, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An African freshwater fish (Protopterus annectens), belonging
to the Dipnoi. It can breathe air by means of its lungs, and when
waters dry up, it encases itself in a nest of hard mud, where it
remains till the rainy season. It is used as food.

KON
Kon, v. t.

Defn: To know. See Can, and Con. [Obs.]
Ye konnen thereon as much as any man. Chaucer.

KONITE
Ko"nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Conite.

KONSEAL
Kon*seal", n. [Prob. formed from conceal.] (Med.)

Defn: A form of capsule for inclosing a dose of medicine that is
offensive, caustic, or the like.

KONZE
Konze, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large African antelope (Alcelaphus Lichtensteini), allied to
the hartbeest, but having shorter and flatter horns, and lacking a
black patch on the face.

KOODOO
Koo"doo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large South African antelope (Strepsiceros kudu). The males
have graceful spiral horns, sometimes four feet long. The general
color is reddish or grayish brown, with eight or nine white bands on
each side, and a pale dorsal stripe. The old males become dark bluish
gray, due to the skin showing through the hair. The females are
hornless. Called also nellut. [Written also kudu.]

KOOKOOM
Koo"koom, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The oryx or gemsbok. [Written also kookaam.]

KOOLOKAMBA
Koo`lo*kam"ba, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A west African anthropoid ape (Troglodytes koolokamba, or T.
Aubryi), allied to the chimpanzee and gorilla, and, in some respects,
intermediate between them.

KOOLSLAA
Kool"slaa`, n.

Defn: See Coleslaw.

KOORD
Koord, n.

Defn: See Kurd.

KOORDISH
Koord"ish, n.

Defn: See Kurdish.

KOORILIAN
Koo*ril"i*an, a & n.

Defn: Same as Kurilian.

KOP
Kop, n. [South Afr. D., fr. D. kop head, akin to G. kopf and prob. to
E. cop top.]

Defn: Hill; mountain. [South Africa]

KOPECK
Ko"peck, n. Etym: [Russ. kopeika.]

Defn: A small Russian coin. One hundred kopecks make a rouble, worth
about sixty cents. [Written also kopek, copec, and copeck.]

KOPJE
Kop"je, n. [South African D., dim. of kop. See Kop.]

Defn: A hillock; a small kop. [South Africa]

 The colloqual Dutch pronunciation as here given is the usual one in
South Africa.

KORAN
Ko"ran, n. Etym: [Ar. goran. See Alcoran.]

Defn: The Scriptures of the Mohammedans, containing the professed
revelations to Mohammed; -- called also Alcoran. [Written also Kuran
or Quran.]

KORIN
Ko"rin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gazelle.

KORRIGUM
Kor"ri*gum, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A West African antelope (Damalis Senegalensis), allied to the
sassaby. It is reddish gray, with a black face, and a black stripe on
the outside of the legs above the knees.

KOSHER
Ko"sher, a. [heb. koshër fit, proper.]

Defn: Ceremonially clean, according to Jewish law; --applied to food,
esp. to meat of animals slaughtered according to the requirements of
Jewish law. Opposed to tref. Hence, designating a shop, store, house,
etc., where such food is sold or used.

KOSHER
Ko"sher, n.

Defn: Kosher food; also, a kosher shop.

KOSHER
Ko"sher, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Koshered; p. pr. & vb. n. Koshering.]

Defn: To prepare in conformity with the requirements of the Jewish
law, as meat.

KOSMOS
Kos"mos, n.

Defn: See Cosmos. Gladstone.

KOTOW
Ko*tow", n. Etym: [Chinese, knock head.]

Defn: The prostration made by mandarins and others to their
superiors, either as homage or worship, by knocking the forehead on
the ground. There are degrees in the rite, the highest being
expressed by three knockings. [China]kowtow S. W. Williams.

KOTOW
Ko*tow", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kotowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Kotowing.]

Defn: To perform the kotow.kowtow

KOULAN
Kou"lan, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wild horse (Equus, or Asinus, onager) inhabiting the plants
of Central Asia; -- called also gour, khur, and onager. [Written also
kulan.]

Note: It is sometimes confounded with the dziggetai, to which it is
closely related. It is gray in winter, but fulvous in summer. It has
a well defined, dark, dorsal stripe, and a short, erect mane. In
size, it is intermediate between the horse and ass.

KOUMISS
Kou"miss, n. Etym: [Russ. kumys; of Mongolian origin.]

Defn: An intoxicating fermented or distilled liquor originally made
by the Tartars from mare's or camel's milk. It can be obtained from
any kind of milk, and is now largely made in Europe. [Written also
koumyss, kumiss, kumish, and kumys.]
Koumiss has from time immemorial served the Tartar instead of wine or
spirits. J. H. Newman.

KOUSSO
Kous"so, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An Abyssinian rosaceous tree (Brayera anthelmintica), the
flowers of which are used as a vermifuge. [Written also cusso and
kosso.]

KOWTOW
Kow*tow", n. & v. i.

Defn: The same as Kotow.
I have salaamed and kowtowed to him. H. James.

KRA
Kra, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A long-tailed ape (Macacus cynomolgus) of India and Sumatra. It
is reddish olive, spotted with black, and has a black tail.

KRAAL
Kraal, n. Etym: [D., a village, inclosure, park, prob. fr. Pg. curral
a cattle pen; the same word as Sp. corral. See Corral.]

1. A collection of huts within a stockade; a village; sometimes, a
single hut. [South Africa]

2. An inclosure into which are driven wild elephants which are to be
tamed and educated. [Ceylon]

KRAIT
Krait, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very venomous snake of India (Bungarus coeruleus), allied to
the cobra. Its upper parts are bluish or brownish black, often with
narrow white streaks; the belly is whitish.

KRAKEN
Kra"ken, n. Etym: [Prob. from OSw. krake, or ODan. krage the trunk of
a tree, the branches of which are not entirely cut off, to which it
was likened by the Norwegian mariners.]

Defn: A fabulous Scandinavian sea monster, often represented as
resembling an island, but sometimes as resembling an immense octopus.
To believe all that has been said of the sea serpent or kraken, would
be credulity; to reject the possibility of their existence, would be
presumption. Goldsmith.
Like a kraken huge and black. Longfellow.

KRAKOWIAK
Kra*ko"wi*ak, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A lively Polish dance. See Cracovienne.

KRAMERIA
Kra*me"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. So called after the German botanists, J.
G. H. & W. H. Kramer.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of spreading shrubs with many stems, from one species
of which (K. triandra), found in Peru, rhatany root, used as a
medicine, is obtained.

KRAMERIC
Kra*mer"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, Krameria (rhatany); as,
krameric acid, usually called ratanhia-tannic acid.

KRANG
Krang, n. Etym: [Cf. D. kreng a carcass.]

Defn: The carcass of a whale after the blubber has been removed.
[Written also crang and kreng.]

KRANGING HOOK
Krang"ing hook`. (Whaling)

Defn: A hook for holding the blubber while cutting it away. [Written
also cranging hook.]

KREATIC
Kre*at"ic, a.

Defn: See Creatic.

KREATIN
Kre"a*tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Creatin.

KREATININ
Kre*at"i*nin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Creatinin.

KREEL
Kreel, n.

Defn: See Creel.

KREMLIN
Krem"lin, n. Etym: [Russ. kremle.]

Defn: The citadel of a town or city; especially, the citadel of
Moscow, a large inclosure which contains imperial palaces,
cathedrals, churches, an arsenal, etc. [Russia]

KREMS
Krems, n.

Defn: A variety of white lead. See Krems lead, under Lead, n.

KRENG
Kreng, n.

Defn: See Krang.

KREOSOTE
Kre"o*sote, n.

Defn: See Creosote.

KREUTZER
Kreut"zer, n. Etym: [G. kreuzer.]

Defn: A small copper coin formerly used in South Germany; also, a
small Austrian copper coin. [Written also kreuzer.]

KRIEGSSPIEL
Kriegs"spiel` (, n. Etym: [G., fr. krieg war + spiel play.]

Defn: A game of war, played for practice, on maps. Farrow.

KRIS
Kris, n.

Defn: A Malay dagger. See Creese.

KRISHNA
Krish"na (, n. Etym: [Skr. (Hindoo Myth.)

Defn: The most popular of the Hindoo divinities, usually held to be
the eighth incarnation of the god Vishnu.

KRITARCHY
Kri"tarch*y, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The rule of the judges over Israel.
Samson, Jephthah, Gideon, and other heroes of the kritarchy. Southey.

KROKIDOLITE
Kro*kid"o*lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Crocidolite.

KRONE
Kro"ne, n.Etym: [Dan.]

Defn: A coin of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, of the value of about
twenty-eight cents. See Crown, n., 9.

KROOMAN
Kroo"man, n.; pl. Kroomen (.

Defn: One of a negro tribe of Liberia and the adjacent coast, whose
members are much employed on shipboard.

KRULLER
Krul"ler, n.

Defn: See Cruller.

KRUMMHORN; KRUMHORN
Krumm"horn`, Krum"horn`, n. Etym: [G. krummhorn horn.] (Mus.)
(a) A reed instrument of music of the cornet kind, now obsolete (see
Cornet, 1, a.)
(b) A reed stop in the organ; -- sometimes called cremona.

KRUPP GUN
Krupp" gun"

Defn: . A breech-loading steel cannon manufactured at the works of
Friedrich Krupp, at Essen in Prussia. Guns of over eight-inch bore
are made up of several concentric cylinders; those of a smaller size
are forged solid. Knight.

KRUPPIZE
Krupp"ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kruppized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Kruppizing.] (Metal.)

Defn: To treat by, or subject to, the Krupp process.

KRUPP PROCESS
Krupp process. (Iron Metal.)
 (a) A process practiced by Friedrich Krupp,  Essen, Germany, for
washing pig iron, differing from the Bell process in using manganese
as well as iron oxide, and performed in a Pernot furnace. Called also
the Bell-Krupp process.
 (b) A process for the manufacture of steel armor plates, invented or
practiced by Krupp, the details of which are secret. It is understood
to involve the addition of chromium as well as nickel to the metal,
and to include a treatment like that of the Harvey process with
unknown variations or additions. The product is mentioned by some
authors, as improved Harvey, or Harvey-Krupp armor plate.

KRYOLITE
Kry"o*lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Cryolite.

KRYPTON
Kryp"ton, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  , neut. of  hidden.] (Chem.)

Defn: An inert gaseous element of the argon group, occurring in air
to the extent of about one volume in a million. It was discovered by
Ramsay and Travers in 1898. Liquefying point, -- 152º C.; symbol, Kr;
atomic weight, 83.0.

KSAR
Ksar, n.

Defn: See Czar.

KSHATRIYA; KSHATRUYA
Ksha"tri*ya, Ksha"tru*ya, n.Etym: [Skr. kshatriya one belonging to
the military caste.]

Defn: The military caste, the second of the four great Hindoo castes;
also, a member of that caste. See Caste. [India]

KUDA
Ku"da, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The East Indian tapir. See Tapir.

KUDOS
Ku"dos, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ky^dos glory.]

Defn: Glory; fame; renown; praise. W. H. Russel.

KUDOS
Ku"dos, v. t.

Defn: To praise; to extol; to glorify. "Kudos'd egregiously." [R.]
Southey.

KUDU
Ku"du, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Koodoo.

KUFIC
Ku"fic, a.

Defn: See Cufic.

KUKANG
Ku*kang", n. (Zoöl.) Etym: [Native name.]

Defn: The slow lemur. See Lemur.

KUKLUX
Ku`klux", n.

Defn: The name adopted in the southern part of the United States by a
secret political organization, active for several years after the
close of the Civil War, and having for its aim the repression of the
political power of the freedmen; -- called also Kuklux Klan.

KULAN
Ku"lan, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Koulan.

KULTURKAMPF
Kul*tur"kampf`, n. [G., fr. kultur, cultur, culture + kampf fight.]
(Ger. Hist.)

Defn: Lit., culture war; -- a name, originating with Virchow (1821 --
1902), given to a struggle between the the Roman Catholic Church and
the German government, chiefly over the latter's efforts to control
educational and ecclesiastical appointments in the interest of the
political policy of centralization. The struggle began with the
passage by the Prussian Diet in May, 1873, of the so-called May laws,
or Falk laws, aiming at the regulation of the clergy. Opposition
eventually compelled the government to change its policy, and from
1880 to 1887 laws virtually nullifying the May laws were enacted.

KUMISH; KUMISS
Ku"mish, Ku"miss, n.

Defn: See Koumiss.

KUMMEL
Kum"mel, n. Etym: [G. kümmel cumin, caraway seed, L. cuminum. Cf.
Cumin.]

Defn: A Russian and German liqueur, consisting of a sweetened spirit
flavored with caraway seeds.

KUMQUAT
Kum"quat, n. Etym: [Chin. kin keu.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small tree of the genus Citrus (C. Japonica) growing in China
and Japan; also, its small acid, orange-colored fruit used for
preserves.

KUPFERNICKEL
Kup"fer*nick"el, n. Etym: [G. See Copper, and Nickel.] (Min.)

Defn: Copper-nickel; niccolite. See Niccolite.

KURD
Kurd, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of a mountainous region of Western Asia
belonging to the Turkish and Persian monarchies. [Written also
Koord.]

KURDISH
Kurd"ish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Kurds. [Written also Koordish.]

KURILIAN
Ku*ril"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Kurile Islands, a chain of islands in
the Pacific ocean, extending from the southern extremity of
Kamschatka to Yesso.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of the Kurile Islands. [Written also
Koorilian.]

KURO-SIWO
Ku"ro-Siwo, n. [Jap. kuroshio; kuro black + shio tide.]

Defn: See Japan Current, above.

KURSAAL
Kur"saal`, n.Etym: [G.]

Defn: A public hall or room, for the use of visitors at watering
places and health resorts in Germany.

KUSIMANSE
Ku`si*man"se, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carnivorous animal (Crossarchus obscurus) of tropical Africa.
It its allied to the civets. Called also kusimansel, and mangue.

KUSKUS
Kus"kus, Etym: [Per. & Hind. khaskhas.] (Bot.)

Defn: See Vetiver.

KUSSIER
Kus"si*er, n.

Defn: (Mus.) A Turkish instrument of music, with a hollow body
covered with skin, over which five strings are stretched. [Written
also kussir.]

KUTAUSS
Ku*tauss", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The India civet (Viverra zibetha).

KUTCH
Kutch, n. (Goldbeating)

Defn: The packet of vellum leaves in which the gold is first beaten
into thin sheets.

KUTCH
Kutch, n.

Defn: See Catechu.

KY
Ky, n. pl.

Defn: Kine. [Scot.] See Kee, Kie, and Kine.

KYABOCA WOOD
Ky`a*bo"ca wood`. (Bot.)
(a) Amboyna wood.
(b) Sandalwood (Santalum album).

KYACK
Ky"ack, n.

Defn: A pack sack to be swung on either side of a packsaddle.
[Western U. S.]

KYANITE
Ky"an*ite, n.

Defn: See Cyanite.

KYANIZE
Ky"an*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kyanized; p. pr. & vb. n. Kyanizing.]
Etym: [From Mr. Kyan, the inventor of the process.]

Defn: To render (wood) proof against decay by saturating with a
solution of corrosive sublimate in open tanks, or under pressure.

KYANOL
Ky"a*nol, n. Etym: [See Cyanite.] (Chem.)
(a) Aniline. [Obs.]
(b) A base obtained from coal tar. Ure.

KYANOPHYLL
Ky*an"o*phyll, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Cyanophyll.

KYAR
Kyar, n.

Defn: Cocoanut fiber, or the cordage made from it. See Coir.

KYAW
Kyaw, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A daw. [Scot.]

KYD
Kyd,

Defn: p. p. of Kythe.

KYDDE
Kyd"de (,

Defn: imp. of Kythe, to show. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Note: Spenser erroneously uses kydst to mean "knowest."

KYKE
Kyke, v. i. Etym: [See 1st Kike.]

Defn: To look steadfastly; to gaze. [Obs.] [Written also kike, keke.]
This Nicholas sat ever gaping upright, As he had kyked on the newe
moon. Chaucer.

KYLEY
Ky"ley, n.

Defn: A variety of the boomerang.

KYLOES
Ky"loes, n. pl.

Defn: The cattle of the Hebrides, or of the Highlands. [Scot.] Sir W.
Scott.

KYMNEL
Kym"nel, n.

Defn: See Kimnel. [Obs.] Chapman.

KYMOGRAPH
Ky"mo*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring, and recording graphically, the
pressure of the blood in any of the blood vessels of a living animal;
-- called also kymographion.

KYMOGRAPHIC
Ky`mo*graph"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a kymograph; as, a kymographic tracing.

KYMRIC
Kym"ric, a & n.

Defn: See Cymric, a. & n.

KYMRY
Kym"ry, n.

Defn: See Cymry.

KYNREDE
Kyn"rede, n.

Defn: Kindred. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KYNURENIC
Ky`nu*ren"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from the urine
of dogs. By decomposition the acid yields a nitrogenous base (called
kynurin) and carbonic acid. [Written also cynurenic.]

KYRIE
Kyr"i*e, n.

Defn: See Kyrie eleison.

KYRIE ELEISON
Kyr"i*e e*lei"son. Etym: [Gr. ky`rie 'elei^son .]

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: Greek words, meaning "Lord, have mercy upon us," used in the
Mass, the breviary offices, the litany of the saints, etc. Addis &
Arnold.

2. The name given to the response to the Commandments, in the service
of the Church of England and of the Protestant Episcopal Church.

KYRIELLE
Kyr`i*elle, n. Etym: [Cf. F. kyrielle.]

Defn: A litany beginning with the words. "Kyrie eleison." Shipley.

KYRIOLEXY; KYRIOLOGY
Kyr"i*o*lex`y, Kyr`i*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. Curiologic.]

Defn: The use of literal or simple expressions, as distinguished from
the use of figurative or obscure ones. Krauth-Fleming.

KYRIOLOGICAL
Kyr`i*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Curiologic.]

Defn: Serving to denote objects by conventional signs or alphabetical
characters; as, the original Greek alphabet of sixteen letters was
called kyriologic, because it represented the pure elementary sounds.
See Curiologic. [Written also curiologic and kuriologic.]

Note: The term is also applied, as by Warburton, to those Egyptian
hieroglyphics, in which a part is put conventionally for the whole,
as in depicting a battle by two hands, one holding a shield and the
other a bow.

KYTHE; KITHE
Kythe, Kithe, v. t. [imp. Kydde, Kidde (kîd"de); p. p. Kythed, Kid;
p. pr. & vb. n. Kything.] Etym: [OE. kythen, kithen, cu, to make
known, AS. c, fr. c known. Uncouth, Ca to be able, and cf. Kith.]

Defn: To make known; to manifest; to show; to declare. [Obs: or
Scot.]
For gentle hearte kytheth gentilesse. Chaucer.

KYTHE
Kythe, v. t.

Defn: To come into view; to appear. [Scot.]
It kythes bright . . . because all is dark around it. Sir W. Scott.

KYTOMITON
Ky*tom"i*ton, n.Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: See Karyomiton.

KYTOPLASMA
Ky`to*plas"ma, n.Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: See Karyoplasma.


[END]

End of Project Gutenberg's Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***

***** This file should be named 29765-8.txt or 29765-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/7/6/29765/

Produced by Graham Lawrence

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
