The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***




Produced by Graham Lawrence

[START]

L

1. L is the twelfth letter of the English alphabet, and a vocal
consonant. It is usually called a semivowel or liquid. Its form and
value are from the Greek, through the Latin, the form of the Greek
letter being from the Phoenician, and the ultimate origin prob.
Egyptian. Etymologically, it is most closely related to r and u; as
in pilgrim, peregrine, couch (fr. collocare), aubura (fr. LL.
alburnus).

Note: At the end of monosyllables containing a single vowel, it is
often doubled, as in fall, full, bell; but not after digraphs, as in
foul, fool, prowl, growl, foal. In English words, the terminating
syllable le is unaccented, the e is silent, and l is preceded by a
voice glide, as in able, eagle, pronounced a''b'l, ''g'l. See Guide
to Pronunciation, § 241.

2. As a numeral, L stands for fifty in the English, as in the Latin
language.
For 50 the Romans used the Chalcidian chi, I. Taylor (The Alphabet).

L
L, n.

1. An extension at right angles to the length of a main building,
giving to the ground plan a form resembling the letter L; sometimes
less properly applied to a narrower, or lower, extension in the
direction of the length of the main building; a wing. [Written also
ell.]

2. (Mech.)

Defn: A short right-angled pipe fitting, used in connecting two pipes
at right angles. [Written also ell.]

LA
La, n. (Mus.)
(a) A syllable applied to the sixth tone of the scale in music in
solmization.
(b) The tone A; -- so called among the French and Italians.

LA
La, interj. Etym: [Cf. Lo.]

1. Look; see; behold; -- sometimes followed by you. [Obs.] Shak.

2. An exclamation of surprise; -- commonly followed by me; as, La me!
[Low]

LAAGER
Laa"ger (lal"ger or lä"ger), n. [D., also leger. Cf. 2d Leaguer,
Lair.]

Defn: A camp, esp. one with an inclosure of travelers' wagons for
temporary defense. [South Africa]

Wagons . . . can be readily formed into a laager, a camp, by being
drawn into a circle, with the oxen placed inside and so kept safe
from the attacks of wild beasts.
James Bryce.

LAAGER
Laa"ger, v. t. & i. [From Laager, n.]

Defn: To form into, or camp in, a laager, or protected camp.

LAAS
Laas, n.

Defn: A lace. See Lace. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAB
Lab, v. i. Etym: [Cf. OD. labben to babble.]

Defn: To prate; to gossip; to babble; to blab. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAB
Lab, n.

Defn: A telltale; a prater; a blabber. [Obs.] "I am no lab." Chaucer.

LABADIST
Lab"a*dist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of Jean de Labadie, a religious teacher of the 17th
century, who left the Roman Catholic Church and taught a kind of
mysticism, and the obligation of community of property among
Christians.

LABARRAQUE'S SOLUTION
La`bar`raque's" so*lu"tion. Etym: [From Labarraque, a Parisian
apothecary.] (Med.)

Defn: An aqueous solution of hypochlorite of sodium, extensively used
as a disinfectant.

LABARUM
Lab"a*rum (, n.; pl. Labara. Etym: [L.]

Defn: The standard adopted by the Emperor Constantine after his
conversion to Christianity. It is described as a pike bearing a silk
banner hanging from a crosspiece, and surmounted by a golden crown.
It bore a monogram of the first two letters (CHR) of the name of
Christ in its Greek form. Later, the name was given to various
modifications of this standard.

LABDANUM
Lab"da*num, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Ladanum.

LABEFACTION
Lab`e*fac"tion, n. Etym: [See Labefy.]

Defn: The act of labefying or making weak; the state of being
weakened; decay; ruin.
There is in it such a labefaction of all principles as may be
injurious to morality. Johnson.

LABEFY
Lab"e*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. labefacere; labare to totter + facere to
make.]

Defn: To weaken or impair. [R.]

LABEL
La"bel, n. Etym: [OF. label sort of ribbon or fringe, label in
heraldry, F. lambeau shred, strip, rag; of uncertain origin; cf.
L.labellum, dim. of labrum lip, edge, margin, G. lappen flap, patch,
rag, tatter (cf. Lap of a dress), W. llab, llabed, label, flap, Gael.
leab, leob, slice, shred, hanging lip.]

1. A tassel. [Obs.] Huloet. Fuller.

2. A slip of silk, paper, parchment, etc., affixed to anything,
usually by an inscription, the contents, ownership, destination,
etc.; as, the label of a bottle or a package.

3. A slip of ribbon, parchment, etc., attached to a document to hold
the appended seal; also, the seal.

4. A writing annexed by way of addition, as a codicil added to a
will.

5. (Her.)

Defn: A barrulet, or, rarely, a bendlet, with pendants, or points,
usually three, especially used as a mark of cadency to distinguish an
eldest or only son while his father is still living.

6. A brass rule with sights, formerly used, in connection with a
circumferentor, to take altitudes. Knight.

7. (Gothic Arch.)

Defn: The name now generally given to the projecting molding by the
sides, and over the tops, of openings in mediæval architecture. It
always has a Arch. Pub. Soc.

8. In mediæval art, the representation of a band or scroll containing
an inscription. Fairholt.

LABEL
La"bel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Labeled or Labelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Labeling or Labelling.]

1. To affix a label to; to mark with a name, etc.; as, to label a
bottle or a package.

2. To affix in or on a label. [R.]

LABELER
La"bel*er, n.

Defn: One who labels. [Written also labeller.]

LABELLUM
La*bel"lum, n.; pl. L. Labella, E. Labellums. Etym: [L., dim. of
labrum lip.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The lower or apparently anterior petal of an orchidaceous
flower, often of a very curious shape.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small appendage beneath the upper lip or labrum of certain
insects.

LABENT
La"bent, a. Etym: [L. labens, p. pr. of labi to slide, glide.]

Defn: Slipping; sliding; gliding. [R.]

LABIA
La"bi*a, n. pl.

Defn: See Labium.

LABIAL
La"bi*al, a. Etym: [LL. labialis, fr. L. labium lip: cf. F. labial.
See Lip.]

1. Of or pertaining to the lips or labia; as, labial veins.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: Furnished with lips; as, a labial organ pipe.

3. (Phonetics)
(a) Articulated, as a consonant, mainly by the lips, as b, p, m, w.
(b) Modified, as a vowel, by contraction of the lip opening, as oo
(food), o (old), etc., and as eu and u in French, and ö, ü in German.
See Guide to Pronunciation,

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the labium; as, the labial palpi of
insects. See Labium.

LABIAL
La"bi*al, n.

1. (Phonetics)

Defn: A letter or character representing an articulation or sound
formed or uttered chiefly with the lips, as b, p, w.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: An organ pipe that is furnished with lips; a flue pipe.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the scales which border the mouth of a fish or reptile.

LABIALISM
La"bi*al*ism, n. (Phonetics)

Defn: The quality of being labial; as, the labialism of an
articulation; conversion into a labial, as of a sound which is
different in another language. J. Peile.

LABIALIZATION
La`bi*al*i*za"tion, n. (Phonetics)

Defn: The modification of an articulation by contraction of the lip
opening.

LABIALIZE
La"bi*al*ize, v. t. (Phonetics)

Defn: To modify by contraction of the lip opening.

LABIALLY
La"bi*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a labial manner; with, or by means of, the lips.

LABIATE
La"bi*ate, v. t.

Defn: To labialize. Brewer.

LABIATE
La"bi*ate, a. Etym: [NL. labiatus, fr. L. labium lip.] (Bot.)
(a) Having the limb of a tubular corolla or calyx divided into two
unequal parts, one projecting over the other like the lips of a
mouth, as in the snapdragon, sage, and catnip.
(b) Belonging to a natural order of plants (Labiatæ), of which the
mint, sage, and catnip are examples. They are mostly aromatic herbs.

LABIATE
La"bi*ate, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the order Labiatæ.

LABIATED
La"bi*a`ted, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Labiate, a. (a).

LABIATIFLORAL; LABIATIFLORAL
La`bi*a`ti*flo"ral, La`bi*a`ti*flo"ral, a. Etym: [Labiate + L. flos,
floris, flower.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having labiate flowers, as the snapdragon.

LABIDOMETER
Lab`i*dom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr.meter: cf. F. labidometre.] (Med.)

Defn: A forceps with a measuring attachment for ascertaining the size
of the fetal head.

LABILE
La"bile, a. Etym: [L. labilis apt to slip, fr. labi to slip.]

Defn: Liable to slip, err, fall, or apostatize. [Obs.] Cheyne.

LABILITY
La*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Liability to lapse, err, or apostatize. [Archaic] Coleridge.

LABIMETER
La*bim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Cf. F. labimetre.] (Med.)

Defn: See Labidometer.

LABIODENTAL
La`bi*o*den"tal, a. Etym: [Labium + dental.] (Phonetics)

Defn: Formed or pronounced by the cooperation of the lips and teeth,
as f and v.
 -- n.

Defn: A labiodental sound or letter.

LABIONASAL
La`bi*o*na"sal, a. Etym: [Labium + nasal.] (Phonetics)

Defn: Formed by the lips and the nose.
 -- n.

Defn: A labionasal sound or letter.

LABIOPLASTY
La"bi*o*plas`ty (la"bi*o*plas`ty), n. [Labium + -plasty.] (Surg.)

Defn: A plastic operation for making a new lip, or for replacing a
lost tissue of a lip.

LABIOSE
La"bi*ose`, a. Etym: [From Labium.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the appearance of being labiate; -- said of certain
polypetalous corollas.

LABIPALP
La"bi*palp, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A labial palp.

LABIPALPUS
La`bi*pal"pus, n.; pl. Labipalpi (. Etym: [NL. See Labium, and
Palpus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the labial palpi of an insect. See Illust. under Labium.

LABIUM
La"bi*um, n. ; pl. L. Labia, E. Labiums. Etym: [L.]

1. A lip, or liplike organ.

2. The lip of an organ pipe.

3. pl. (Anat.)

Defn: The folds of integument at the opening of the vulva.

4. (Zoöl.)
(a) The organ of insects which covers the mouth beneath, and serves
as an under lip. It consists of the second pair of maxillæ, usually
closely united in the middle line, but bearing a pair of palpi in
most insects. It often consists of a thin anterior part (ligula or
palpiger) and a firmer posterior plate (mentum).
(b) Inner margin of the aperture of a shell.

LABLAB
Lab"lab, n. (Bot.)

Defn: an East Indian name for several twining leguminous plants
related to the bean, but commonly applied to the hyacinth bean
(Delichos Lablab).

LABOR
La"bor, n. Etym: [OE. labour, OF. labour, laber, labur, F. labeur, L.
labor; cf. Gr. labh to get, seize.] [Written also labour.]

1. Physical toil or bodily exertion, especially when fatiguing,
irksome, or unavoidable, in distinction from sportive exercise; hard,
muscular effort directed to some useful end, as agriculture,
manufactures, and like; servile toil; exertion; work.
God hath set Labor and rest, as day and night, to men Successive.
Milton.

2. Intellectual exertion; mental effort; as, the labor of compiling a
history.

3. That which requires hard work for its accomplishment; that which
demands effort.
Being a labor of so great a difficulty, the exact performance thereof
we may rather wish than look for. Hooker.

4. Travail; the pangs and efforts of childbirth.
The queen's in labor, They say, in great extremity; and feared She'll
with the labor end. Shak.

5. Any pang or distress. Shak.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: The pitching or tossing of a vessel which results in the
straining of timbers and rigging.

7. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A measure of land in Mexico and Texas, equivalent to an area of
177 Bartlett.

Syn.
 -- Work; toil; drudgery; task; exertion; effort; industry;
painstaking. See Toll.

LABOR
La"bor, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Labored; p. pr. & vb. n. Laboring.] Etym:
[OE. labouren, F. labourer, L. laborare. See Labor, n.] [Written also
labour.]

1. To exert muscular strength; to exert one's strength with painful
effort, particularly in servile occupations; to work; to toil.
Adam, well may we labor still to dress This garden. Milton.

2. To exert one's powers of mind in the prosecution of any design; to
strive; to take pains.

3. To be oppressed with difficulties or disease; to do one's work
under conditions which make it especially hard, wearisome; to move
slowly, as against opposition, or under a burden; to be burdened; --
often with under, and formerly with of.
The stone that labors up the hill. Granville.
The line too labors,and the words move slow. Pope.
To cure the disorder under which he labored. Sir W. Scott.
Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give
you rest. Matt. xi. 28

4. To be in travail; to suffer the pangs of childbirth.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: To pitch or roll heavily, as a ship in a turbulent sea. Totten.

LABOR
La"bor, v. t. Etym: [F. labourer, L. laborare.]

1. To work at; to work; to till; to cultivate by toil.
The most excellent lands are lying fallow, or only labored by
children. W. Tooke.

2. To form or fabricate with toil, exertion, or care. "To labor arms
for Troy." Dryden.

3. To prosecute, or perfect, with effort; to urge streas, to labor a
point or argument.

4. To belabor; to beat. [Obs.] Dryden.

LABORANT
Lab"o*rant, n. Etym: [L.laborans, p. pr. of laborare to labor.]

Defn: A chemist. [Obs.] Boyle.

LABORATORY
Lab"o*ra*to*ry, n.; pl. Laboratories. Etym: [Shortened fr.
elaboratory; cf. OF. elaboratoire, F. laboratoire. See Elaborate,
Labor.] [Formerly written also elaboratory.]

Defn: The workroom of a chemist; also, a place devoted to experiments
in any branch of natural science; as, a chemical, physical, or
biological laboratory. Hence, by extension, a place where something
is prepared, or some operation is performed; as, the liver is the
laboratory of the bile.

LABOR DAY
Labor Day.

Defn: In most of the States and Territories of the United States, a
day, usually the first Monday of September, set aside as a legal
holiday, in honor of, or in the interest of, workingmen as a class.
Also, a similar holiday in Canada, Australia, etc.

LABORED
La"bored, a.

Defn: Bearing marks of labor and effort; elaborately wrought; not
easy or natural; as, labored poetry; a labored style.

LABOREDLY
La"bored*ly, adv.

Defn: In a labored manner; with labor.

LABORER
La"bor*er, n. Etym: [Written also labourer.]

Defn: One who labors in a toilsome occupation; a person who does work
that requires strength rather than skill, as distinguished from that
of an artisan.

LABORING
La"bor*ing, a.

1. That labors; performing labor; esp., performing coarse, heavy
work, not requiring skill also, set apart for labor; as, laboring
days.
The sleep of a laboring man is sweet. eccl. v. 12.

2. Suffering pain or grief. Pope. Laboring oar, the oar which
requires most strength and exertion; often used figuratively; as, to
have, or pull, the laboring oar in some difficult undertaking.

LABORIOUS
La*bo"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. laboriosus,fr. labor labor: cf. F.
laborieux.]

1. Requiring labor, perseverance, or sacrifices; toilsome; tiresome.
Dost thou love watchings, abstinence, or toil, Laborious virtues all
Learn these from Cato. Addison.

2. Devoted to labor; diligent; industrious; as, a laborious mechanic.
 -- La*bo"ri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- La*bo"ri*ous*ness, n.

LABORLESS
La"bor*less, a.

Defn: Not involving labor; not laborious; easy.

LABOROUS
La"bor*ous, a.

Defn: Laborious. [Obs.] Wyatt.
 -- La"bor*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

LABOR-SAVING
La"bor-sav`ing, a.

Defn: Saving labor; adapted to supersede or diminish the labor of
men; as, laborsaving machinery.

LABORSOME
La"bor*some, a.

1. Made with, or requiring, great labor, pains, or diligence. [Obs.]
Shak.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Likely or inclined to roll or pitch, as a ship in a heavy sea;
having a tendency to labor.

LABRADOR
Lab`ra*dor", n.

Defn: A region of British America on the Atlantic coast, north of
Newfoundland. Labrador duck (Zoöl.), a sea duck (Camtolaimus
Labradorius) allied to the eider ducks. It was formerly common on the
coast of New England, but is now supposed to be extinct, no specimens
having been reported since 1878.
 -- Labrador feldspar. See Labradorite.
 -- Labrador tea (Bot.), a name of two low, evergreen shrubs of the
genus Ledum (L. palustre and L. latifolium), found in Northern Europe
and America. They are used as tea in British America, and in
Scandinavia as a substitute for hops.

LABRADORITE
Lab"ra*dor`ite (, n. (Min.)

Defn: A kind of feldspar commonly showing a beautiful play of colors,
and hence much used for ornamental purposes. The finest specimens
come from Labrador. See Feldspar.

LABRAS
La"bras, n. pl. Etym: [L.labrum; cf. It. labbro, pl. labbra.]

Defn: Lips. [Obs. & R.] Shak.

LABRET
La"bret, n. [L. labrum lip.] (Anthropology)

Defn: A piece of wood, shell, stone, or other substance, worn in a
perforation of the lip or cheek by many savages.

LABROID
La"broid, a. Etym: [Labrus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like the genus Labrus; belonging to the family Labridæ, an
extensive family of marine fishes, often brilliantly colored, which
are very abundant in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The tautog and
cunner are American examples.

LABROSE
La"brose`, a. Etym: [L. labrosus, fr. labrum lip.]

Defn: Having thick lips.

LABRUM
La"brum, n.; pl. L. Labra, E. Labrums. Etym: [L.]

1. A lip or edge, as of a basin.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) An organ in insects and crustaceans covering the upper part of
the mouth, and serving as an upper lip. See Illust. of Hymenoptera.
(b) The external margin of the aperture of a shell. See Univalve.

LABRUS
La"brus, n.; pl. Labri (-bri). Etym: [L., a sort of fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine fishes, including the wrasses of Europe. See
Wrasse.

LABURNIC
La*bur`nic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the laburnum.

LABURNINE
La*bur`nine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous alkaloid found in the unripe seeds of the laburnum.

LABURNUM
La*bur"num, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small leguminous tree (Cytisus Laburnum), native of the Alps.
The plant is reputed to be poisonous, esp. the bark and seeds. It has
handsome racemes of yellow blossoms.

Note: Scotch laburnum (Cytisus alpinus) is similar, but has smooth
leaves; purple laburnum is C. purpureus.

LABYRINTH
Lab"y*rinth, n. Etym: [L. labyrinthus, Gr. laby`rinthos: cf. F.
labyrinthe.]

1. An edifice or place full of intricate passageways which render it
difficult to find the way from the interior to the entrance; as, the
Egyptian and Cretan labyrinths.

2. Any intricate or involved inclosure; especially, an ornamental
maze or inclosure in a park or garden.

3. Any object or arrangement of an intricate or involved form, or
having a very complicated nature.
The serpent . . . fast sleeping soon he found, In labyrinth of many a
round self-rolled. Milton.
The labyrinth of the mind. Tennyson.

4. An inextricable or bewildering difficulty.
I' the maze and winding labyrinths o' the world. Denham.

5. (Anat.)

Defn: The internal ear. See Note under Ear.

6. (Metal.)

Defn: A series of canals through which a stream of water is directed
for suspending, carrying off, and depositing at different distances,
the ground ore of a metal. Ure.

7. (Arch.)

Defn: A pattern or design representing a maze, -- often inlaid in the
tiled floor of a church, etc.

Syn.
 -- Maze; confusion; intricacy; windings.
 -- Labyrinth, Maze. Labyrinth, originally; the name of an edifice or
excavation, carries the idea of design, and construction in a
permanent form, while maze is used of anything confused or confusing,
whether fixed or shifting. Maze is less restricted in its figurative
uses than labyrinth. We speak of the labyrinth of the ear, or of the
mind, and of a labyrinth of difficulties; but of the mazes of the
dance, the mazes of political intrigue, or of the mind being in a
maze.

LABYRINTHAL
Lab`y*rin"thal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a labyrinth; intricate;
labyrinthian.

LABYRINTHIAN
Lab`y*rin"thi*an (, a.

Defn: Intricately winding; like a labyrinth; perplexed; labyrinthal.

LABYRINTHIBRANCH
Lab`y*rin"thi*branch, a. Etym: [See Labyrinth, and Branchia.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthici.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Labyrinthici.

LABYRINTHIC; LABYRINTHICAL
Lab`y*rin"thic, Lab`y*rin`thic*al, a. Etym: [L. labyrinthicus: cf. F.
labyrinthique.]

Defn: Like or pertaining to a labyrinth.

LABYRINTHICI
Lab`y*rin"thi*ci, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Labyrinth.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of teleostean fishes, including the Anabas, or
climbing perch, and other allied fishes.

Note: They have, connected with the gill chamber, a special cavity in
which a labyrinthiform membrane is arranged so as to retain water to
supply the gills while the fish leaves the water and travels about on
land, or even climbs trees.

LABYRINTHIFORM
Lab`y*rin"thi*form, a. Etym: [Labyrinth + -form: cf. F.
labyrinthiforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a labyrinth; intricate.

LABYRINTHINE
Lab`y*rin"thine, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, a labyrinth; labyrinthal.

LABYRINTHODON
Lab`y*rin"tho*don, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of very large fossil amphibians, of the Triassic
period, having bony plates on the under side of the body. It is the
type of the order Labyrinthodonta. Called also Mastodonsaurus.

LABYRINTHODONT
Lab`y*rin"tho*dont, a. (Paleon.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthodonta.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Labyrinthodonta.

LABYRINTHODONTA
Lab`y*rin`tho*don"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Labyrinthodon.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct order of Amphibia, including the typical genus
Labyrinthodon, and many other allied forms, from the Carboniferous,
Permian, and Triassic formations. By recent writers they are divided
into two or more orders. See Stegocephala.

LAC; LAKH
Lac, Lakh (, n. Etym: [Hind. lak, lakh, laksh, Skr. laksha a mark,
sign, lakh.]

Defn: One hundred thousand; also, a vaguely great number; as, a lac
of rupees. [Written also lack.] [East Indies]

LAC
Lac, n. Etym: [Per. lak; akin to Skr. laksha: cf. F. lague, It. & NL.
lacca. Cf. Lake a color, Lacquer, Litmus.]

Defn: A resinous substance produced mainly on the banyan tree, but to
some extent on other trees, by the Coccus lacca, a scale-shaped
insect, the female of which fixes herself on the bark, and exudes
from the margin of her body this resinous substance.

Note: Stick-lac is the substance in its natural state, incrusting
small twigs. When broken off, and the coloring matter partly removed,
the granular residuum is called seed-lac. When melted, and reduced to
a thin crust, it is called shell-lac or shellac. Lac is an important
ingredient in sealing wax, dyes, varnishes, and lacquers. Ceylon lac,
a resinous exudation of the tree Croton lacciferum, resembling lac.
 -- Lac dye, a scarlet dye obtained from stick-lac.
 -- Lac lake, the coloring matter of lac dye when precipitated from
its solutions by alum.
 -- Mexican lac, an exudation of the tree Croton Draco.

LACCIC
Lac"cic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. laccique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to lac, or produced from it; as, laccic acid.

LACCIN
Lac"cin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. laccine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow amorphous substance obtained from lac.

LACCOLITE; LACCOLITH
Lac"co*lite, Lac"co*lith, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite, -lith.] (Geol.)

Defn: A mass of igneous rock intruded between sedimentary beds and
resulting in a mammiform bulging of the overlying strata.
 -- Lac`co*lit"ic, a.

LACE
Lace (las), n. Etym: [OE. las, OF. laz, F. lacs, dim. lacet, fr. L.
laqueus noose, snare; prob. akin to lacere to entice. Cf. Delight,
Elicit, Lasso, Latchet.]

1. That which binds or holds, especially by being interwoven; a
string, cord, or band, usually one passing through eyelet or other
holes, and used in drawing and holding together parts of a garment,
of a shoe, of a machine belt, etc.
His hat hung at his back down by a lace. Chaucer.
For striving more, the more in laces strong Himself he tied. Spenser.

2. A snare or gin, especially one made of interwoven cords; a net.
[Obs.] Fairfax.
Vulcanus had caught thee [Venus] in his lace. Chaucer.

3. A fabric of fine threads of linen, silk, cotton, etc., often
ornamented with figures; a delicate tissue of thread, much worn as an
ornament of dress.
Our English dames are much given to the wearing of costlylaces.
Bacon.

4. Spirits added to coffee or some other beverage. [Old Slang]
Addison. Alencon lace, a kind of point lace, entirely of needlework,
first made at Alencon in France, in the 17th century. It is very
durable and of great beauty and cost.
 -- Bone lace, Brussels lace, etc. See under Bone, Brussels, etc.
 -- Gold lace, or Silver lace, lace having warp threads of silk, or
silk and cotton, and a weft of silk threads covered with gold (or
silver), or with gilt.
 -- Lace leather, thin, oil-tanned leather suitable for cutting into
lacings for machine belts.
 -- Lace lizard (Zoöl.), a large, aquatic, Australian lizard
(Hydrosaurus giganteus), allied to the monitors.
 -- Lace paper, paper with an openwork design in imitation of lace.
 -- Lace piece (Shipbuilding), the main piece of timber which
supports the beak or head projecting beyond the stem of a ship.
 -- Lace pillow, and Pillow lace. See under Pillow.

LACE
Lace, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Laced (ast); p. pr. & vb. n. Lacing.]

1. To fasten with a lace; to draw together with a lace passed through
eyelet holes; to unite with a lace or laces, or, figuratively. with
anything resembling laces. Shak.
When Jenny's stays are newly laced. Prior.

2. To adorn with narrow strips or braids of some decorative material;
as, cloth laced with silver. Shak.

3. To beat; to lash; to make stripes on. [Colloq.]
I'll lace your coat for ye. L'Estrange.

4. To add spirits to (a beverage). [Old Slang]

LACE
Lace, v. i.

Defn: To be fastened with a lace, or laces; as, these boots lace.

LACE-BARK
Lace"-bark`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A shrub in the West Indies (Lagetta Iintearia); -- so called
from the lacelike layers of its inner bark.

LACED
Laced, a.

1. Fastened with a lace or laces; decorated with narrow strips or
braid. See Lace, v. t.

2. Decorated with the fabric lace.
A shirt with laced ruffles. Fielding.
Laced mutton, a prostitute. [Old slang] -- Laced stocking, a strong
stocking which can be tightly laced; -- used in cases of weak legs,
varicose veins, etc. Dunglison.

LACEDAEMONIAN
Lac`e*dæ*mo"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Lacedamonius, Gr. Lakedaimo`nios, fr.
Lakedai`mwn Lacedæmon.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lacedæmon or Sparta, the chief city of
Laconia in the Peloponnesus.
 -- n.

Defn: A Spartan. [Written also Lacedemonian.]

LACEMAN
Lace"man, n.; pl. Lacemen (.

Defn: A man who deals in lace.

LACERABLE
Lac"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. lacerabilis: cf. F. lacérable.]Etym:

Defn: That can be lacerated or torn.

LACERATE
Lac"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lacerated; p. pr. & vb. n. Lacerating
().] Etym: [L. laceratus, p. p. of lacerare to lacerate, fr. lacer
mangled, lacerated; cf. Gr. slay.]

Defn: To tear; to rend; to separate by tearing; to mangle; as, to
lacerate the flesh. Hence: To afflict; to torture; as, to lacerate
the heart.

LACERATE; LACERATED
Lac"er*ate, Lac"er*a`ted, p. a. Etym: [L. laceratus, p. p.]

1. Rent; torn; mangled; as, a lacerated wound.
By each other's fury lacerate Southey.

2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Jagged, or slashed irregularly, at the end, or along the edge.

LACERATION
Lac`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L.laceratio: cf. F. lacération.]

1. The act of lacerating.

2. A breach or wound made by lacerating. Arbuthnot.

LACERATIVE
Lac"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Lacerating, or having the power to lacerate; as, lacerative
humors. Harvey.

LACERT
La"cert, n. Etym: [OE. lacerte. See Lacertus.]

Defn: A muscle of the human body. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LACERTA
La*cer"ta, n. Etym: [L. lacertus the arm.]

Defn: A fathom. [Obs.] Domesday Book.

LACERTA
La*cer"ta, n. Etym: [L. a lizard. See Lizard.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of lizards. See Lizard.

Note: Formerly it included nearly all the known lizards. It is now
restricted to certain diurnal Old World species, like the green
lizard (Lacerta viridis) and the sand lizard (L. agilis), of Europe.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The Lizard, a northern constellation.

LACERTIAN
La*cer"tian, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lacertien.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like a lizard; of or pertaining to the Lacertilia.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Lacertilia.

LACERTILIA
Lac`er*til"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L.lacertus a lizard.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Reptilia, which includes the lizards.

Note: They are closely related to the snakes, and life the latter,
usually have the body covered with scales or granules. They usually
have eyelids, and most of then have well-formed legs; but in some
groups (amphisbæna, glass-snake, etc.) the legs are wanting and the
body is serpentlike. None are venomous, unless Heloderma be an
exception. The order includes the chameleons, the Cionocrania, or
typical lizards, and the amphisbænas. See Amphisbæna, Gecko, Gila
monster, and Lizard.

LACERTILIAN
Lac`er*til"i*an (-an), a. & n.

Defn: Same as Lacertian.

LACERTILOID
La*cer"ti*loid, a. Etym: [Lacertilia + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or belonging to the Lacertilia.

LACERTINE
La*cer"tine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Lacertian.

LACERTUS
La*cer"tus, n.; pl. Lacerti (-ti). Etym: [L., the upper arm.] (Anat.)

Defn: A bundle or fascicle of muscular fibers.

LACEWING
Lace"wing`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of neuropterous insects of the genus
Chrysopa and allied genera. They have delicate, lacelike wings and
brilliant eyes. Their larvæ are useful in destroying aphids. Called
also lace-winged fly, and goldeneyed fly.

LACE-WINGED
Lace"-winged`, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having thin, transparent, reticulated wings; as, the lace-
winged flies.

LACHES; LACHE
Lach"es, Lache, n. Etym: [OF. lachesse, fr. lache lax, indolent, F.
lâche, ultimately fr. L. laxus loose, lax. See Lax.] (Law)

Defn: Neglect; negligence; remissness; neglect to do a thing at the
proper time; delay to assert a claim.
It ill became him to take advantage of such a laches with the
eagerness of a shrewd attorney. Macaulay.

LACHRYMABLE
Lach"ry*ma*ble, a. Etym: [L. lacrimabilis, fr. lacrima a tear.]

Defn: Lamentable. Martin Parker.

LACHRYMAE CHRISTI
Lach"ry*mæ Chris"ti. Etym: [L., lit., Christ's tears.]

Defn: A rich, sweet, red Neapolitan wine.

LACHRYMAL
Lach"ry*mal (, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lacrymal. See Lachrymose.]

1. Of or pertaining to tears; as, lachrymal effusions.

2. (Anat.)
(a) Pertaining to, or secreting, tears; as, the lachrymal gland.
(b) Pertaining to the lachrymal organs; as, lachrymal bone; lachrymal
duct.

LACHRYMAL
Lach"ry*mal, n.

Defn: See Lachrymatory.

LACHRYMALS
Lach"ry*mals, n. pl. [See Lachrymal.]

Defn: Tears; also, lachrymal feelings or organs. [Colloq.]

People go to the theaters to have . . . their risibles and lachrymals
set agoing.
The Lutheran.

LACHRYMARY
Lach"ry*ma*ry, a.

Defn: Containing, or intended to contain, tears; lachrymal. Addison.

LACHRYMATE
Lach"ry*mate (-mat), v. i.

Defn: To weep. [R.] Blount.

LACHRYMATION
Lach`ry*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. lacrimatio, from lacrimare to shed
tears, fr. lacrima tear.]

Defn: The act of shedding tears; weeping.

LACHRYMATORY
Lach"ry*ma*to*ry, n.; pl. -ries. Etym: [Cf. F. lacrymatoire.]
(Antiq.)

Defn: A "tear-bottle;" a narrow-necked vessel found in sepulchers of
the ancient Romans; -- so called from a former notion that the tears
of the deceased person's friends were collected in it. Called also
lachrymal or lacrymal.

LACHRYMIFORM
Lach"ry*mi*form, a, Etym: [L.lacrima tear + -form; cf. F.
lacrymiforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a tear; tear-shaped.

LACHRYMOSE
Lach"ry*mose`, a. Etym: [L. lacrymosus, better lacrimosus, fr.
lacrima, lacruma (also badly spelt lachryma) a tear, for older
dacrima, akin to E. tear. See Tear the secretion.]

Defn: Generating or shedding tears; given to shedding tears; suffused
with tears; tearful.
You should have seen his lachrymose visnomy. Lamb.
-- Lach"ry*mose`ly, adv.

LACING
La"cing, n.

1. The act of securing, fastening, or tightening, with a lace or
laces.

2. A lace; specifically (Mach.), a thong of thin leather for uniting
the ends of belts.

3. A rope or line passing through eyelet holes in the edge of a sail
or an awning to attach it to a yard, gaff, etc.

4. (Bridge Building)

Defn: A system of bracing bars, not crossing each other in the
middle, connecting the channel bars of a compound strut. Waddell.

LACINIA
La*cin"i*a, n.; pl. L. Laciniæ. Etym: [L., the lappet or flap of a
garment.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) One of the narrow, jagged, irregular pieces or divisions which
form a sort of fringe on the borders of the petals of some flowers.
(b) A narrow, slender portion of the edge of a monophyllous calyx, or
of any irregularly incised leaf.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The posterior, inner process of the stipes on the maxillæ of
insects.

LACINIATE; LACINIATED
La*cin"i*ate, La*cin"i*a"ted, a. Etym: [See Lacinia.]

1. Fringed; having a fringed border.

2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Cut into deep, narrow, irregular lobes; slashed.

LACINIOLATE
La*cin"i*o*late, a. Etym: [See Lacinia.] (Bot.)

Defn: Consisting of, or abounding in, very minute laciniæ.

LACINULA
La*cin"u*la, n.; pl. Lacinulæ, E. Lacinulas. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A diminutive lacinia.

LACK
Lack, n. Etym: [OE. lak; cf. D. lak slander, laken to blame, OHG.
lahan, AS. leán.]

1. Blame; cause of blame; fault; crime; offense. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Deficiency; want; need; destitution; failure; as, a lack of
sufficient food.
She swooneth now and now for lakke of blood. Chaucer.
Let his lack of years be no impediment. Shak.

LACK
Lack, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lacked; p. pr. & vb. n. Lacking.]

1. To blame; to find fault with. [Obs.]
Love them and lakke them not. Piers Plowman.

2. To be without or destitute of; to want; to need.
If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. James i. 5.

LACK
Lack, v. i.

1. To be wanting; often, impersonally, with of, meaning, to be less
than, short, not quite, etc.
What hour now I think it lacks of twelve. Shak.
Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty. Gen. xvii. 28.

2. To be in want.
The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger. Ps. xxxiv. 10.

LACK
Lack, interj. Etym: [Cf. Alack.]

Defn: Exclamation of regret or surprise. [Prov. Eng.] Cowper.

LACKADAISICAL
Lack`a*dai"si*cal, a. Etym: [From Lackadaisy, interj.]

Defn: Affectedly pensive; languidly sentimental.
 -- Lack`a*dai"si*cal*ly, adv.

LACKADAISY
Lack"a*dai`sy, interj. Etym: [From Lackaday, interj.]

Defn: An expression of languor.

LACKADAISY
Lack"a*dai`sy, a.

Defn: Lackadaisical.

LACKADAY
Lack"a*day`, interj. Etym: [Abbreviated from alackaday.]

Defn: Alack the day; alas; -- an expression of sorrow, regret,
dissatisfaction, or surprise.

LACKBRAIN
Lack"brain`, n.

Defn: One who is deficient in understanding; a witless person. Shak.

LACKER
Lack"er, n.

Defn: One who lacks or is in want.

LACKER
Lack"er, n. & v.

Defn: See Lacquer.

LACKEY
Lack"ey, n.; pl. Lackeys. Etym: [F. laquais; cf. Sp. & Pg. lacayo; of
uncertain origin; perh. of German origin, and akin to E.lick, v.]

Defn: An attending male servant; a footman; a servile follower.
Like a Christian footboy or a gentleman's lackey. Shak.
Lackey caterpillar (Zoöl.), the caterpillar, or larva, of any
bombycid moth of the genus Clisiocampa; -- so called from its party-
colored markings. The common European species (C. neustria) is
striped with blue, yellow, and red, with a white line on the back.
The American species (C. Americana and C. sylvatica) are commonly
called tent caterpillars. See Tent caterpillar,under Tent.
 -- Lackey moth (Zoöl.), the moth which produces the lackey
caterpillar.

LACKEY
Lack"ey, v. t.

Defn: To attend as a lackey; to wait upon.
A thousand liveried angels lackey her. Milton.

LACKEY
Lack"ey, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lackeyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lackeying.]

Defn: To act or serve as lackey; to pay servile attendance.

LACKLUSTER; LACKLUSTRE
Lack"lus`ter, Lack"lus`tre, n.

Defn: A want of luster.
 -- a.

Defn: Wanting luster or brightness. "Lackluster eye." Shak.

LACMUS
Lac"mus, n.

Defn: See Litmus.

LACONIAN
La*co"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Laconia, a division of ancient Greece;
Spartan.
 -- n.

Defn: An inhabitant of Laconia; esp., a Spartan.

LACONIC; LACONICAL
La*con"ic, La*con"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Laconicus Laconian, Gr.
laconique.]

1. Expressing much in few words, after the manner of the Laconians or
Spartans; brief and pithy; brusque; epigrammatic. In this sense
laconic is the usual form.
I grow laconic even beyond laconicism; for sometimes I return only
yes, or no, to questionary or petitionary epistles of half a yard
long. Pope.
His sense was strong and his style laconic. Welwood.

2. Laconian; characteristic of, or like, the Spartans; hence, stern
or severe; cruel; unflinching.
His head had now felt the razor, his back the rod; all that laconical
discipline pleased him well. Bp. Hall.

Syn.
 -- Short; brief; concise; succinct; sententious; pointed; pithy.
 -- Laconic, Concise. Concise means without irrelevant or superfluous
matter; it is the opposite of diffuse. Laconic means concise with the
additional quality of pithiness, sometimes of brusqueness.

LACONIC
La*con"ic, n.

Defn: Laconism. [Obs.] Addison.

LACONICAL
La*con"ic*al, a.

Defn: See Laconic, a.

LACONICALLY
La*con"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a laconic manner.

LACONICISM
La*con"I*cism, n.

Defn: Same as Laconism. Pope.

LACONISM
Lac"o*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. laconisme.]

1. A vigorous, brief manner of expression; laconic style.

2. An instance of laconic style or expression.

LACONIZE
Lac"o*nize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Laconized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Laconizing.] Etym: [Gr. Laconic.]

Defn: To imitate the manner of the Laconians, especially in brief,
pithy speech, or in frugality and austerity.

LACQUER
Lac"quer, n. Etym: [F. lacre a sort of sealing wax, Pg. lacte, fr.
laca lac. See Lac the resin.] [Written also lacker.]

Defn: A varnish, consisting of a solution of shell-lac in alcohol,
often colored with gamboge, saffron, or the like; -- used for
varnishing metals, papier-maché, and wood. The name is also given to
varnishes made of other ingredients, esp. the tough, solid varnish of
the Japanese, with which ornamental objects are made.

LACQUER
Lac"quer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lacquered; p. pr. & vb. n. Lacquering.]

Defn: To cover with lacquer. "Lacquer'd chair." Pope.

LACQUERER
Lac"quer*er, n.

Defn: One who lacquers, especially one who makes a business of
lacquering.

LACQUERING
Lac"quer*ing, n.

Defn: The act or business of putting on lacquer; also, the coat of
lacquer put on.

LACRIMOSO
La`cri*mo"so, a. Etym: [It. See Lachrymose.] (Mus.)

Defn: Plaintive; -- a term applied to a mournful or pathetic movement
or style. Moore.

LACROSSE
La*crosse", n. Etym: [F. la crosse, lit., the crosier, hooked stick.
Cf. Crosier.]

Defn: A game of ball, originating among the North American Indians,
now the popular field sport of Canada, and played also in England and
the United States. Each player carries a long-handled racket, called
a "crosse". The ball is not handled but caught with the crosse and
carried on it, or tossed from it, the object being to carry it or
throw it through one of the goals placed at opposite ends of the
field.

LACRYMAL
Lac"ry*mal, n. & a.

Defn: See Lachrymatory, n., and Lachrymal, a.

LACRYMARY; LACRYTORY; LACRYMOSE
Lac"ry*ma*ry, Lac"ry*to*ry, Lac"ry*mose.

Defn: See Lachrymary, Lachrymatory, Lachrymose.

LACTAGE
Lac"tage, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk: cf. F. laitage. See
Lacteal.]

Defn: The produce of animals yielding milk; milk and that which is
made from it.

LACTAM
Lac"tam, n. Etym: [Lactone + amido.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of anhydrides of an amido type, analogous to
the lactones, as oxindol.

LACTAMIC
Lac*tam"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an amido acid related to lactic
acid, and called also amido-propionic acid.

LACTAMIDE
Lac*tam"ide, n. Etym: [Lactic + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: An acid amide derived from lactic acid, and obtained as a white
crystalline substance having a neutral reaction. It is metameric with
alanine.

LACTANT
Lac"tant, a. Etym: [L. lactans, p. pr. of lactare to suck, fr. lac,
lactis, milk.]

Defn: Suckling; giving suck.

LACTARENE
Lac"ta*rene, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk.]

Defn: A preparation of casein from milk, used in printing calico.

LACTARY
Lac"ta*ry, a. Etym: [l. lactarius, fr. lac, lactis, milk: cf. F.
lactaire.]

Defn: Milky; full of white juice like milk. [Obs.] "Lactary or milky
plants." Sir T. Browne.

LACTARY
Lac"ta*ry, n.

Defn: a dairyhouse. [R.]

LACTATE
Lac"tate, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk: cf. F. lactate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of lactic acid.

LACTATION
Lac*ta"tion, n.

Defn: A giving suck; the secretion and yielding of milk by the
mammary gland.

LACTEAL
Lac"te*al, a. Etym: [L. lacteus milky, fr. lac, lactis, milk. Cf.
Galaxy, Lettuce.]

1. Pertaining to, or resembling, milk; milky; as, the lacteal fluid.

2. (Anat. & Physiol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, chyle; as, the lacteal vessels.

LACTEAL
Lac"te*al, n. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the lymphatic vessels which convey chyle from the small
intestine through the mesenteric glands to the thoracic duct; a
chyliferous vessel.

LACTEALLY
Lac"te*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Milkily; in the manner of milk.

LACTEAN
Lac"te*an, a. Etym: [See Lacteal.]

1. Milky; consisting of, or resembling, milk. "This lactean
whiteness." Moxon.

2. (Anat. & Physiol.)

Defn: Lacteal; conveying chyle.

LACTEOUS
Lac"te*ous, a. Etym: [See Lacteal.]

1. Milky; resembling milk. "The lacteous circle." Sir T. Browne.

2. Lacteal; conveying chyle; as, lacteous vessels.

LACTEOUSLY
Lac"te*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lacteous manner; after the manner of milk.

LACTESCENCE
Lac*tes"cence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lactescence.]

1. The state or quality of producing milk, or milklike juice;
resemblance to milk; a milky color.
This lactescence does commonly ensue when . . . fair water is
suddenly poured upon the solution. Boyle.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The latex of certain plants. See Latex.

LACTESCENT
Lac*tes"cent, a. Etym: [L. lactescens, p. pr. of lactescere to turn
to milk, incho. fr. lactere to be milky, fr. lac, lactis, milk: cf.
F. lactescent.]

1. Having a milky look; becoming milky. [Obs.]

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing milk or a milklike juice or fluid, as the milkweed.
See Latex.

LACTIC
Lac"tic, a. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk: cf. F. lactique. See
Lacteal, and cf. Galactic.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to milk; procured from sour milk or whey; as,
lactic acid; lactic fermentation, etc. Lactic acid (Physiol. Chem.),
a sirupy, colorless fluid, soluble in water, with an intensely sour
taste and strong acid reaction. There are at least three isomeric
modifications all having the formula C3H6O3. Sarcolactic or
paralactic acid occurs chiefly in dead muscle tissue, while ordinary
lactic acid results from fermentation. The two acids are alike in
having the same constitution (expressed by the name ethylidene lactic
acid), but the latter is optically inactive, while sarcolactic acid
rotates the plane of polarization to the right. The third acid,
ethylene lactic acid, accompanies sarcolactic acid in the juice of
flesh, and is optically inactive.
 -- Lactic ferment, an organized ferment (Bacterium lacticum or
lactis), which produces lactic fermentation, decomposing the sugar of
milk into carbonic and lactic acids, the latter, of which renders the
milk sour, and precipitates the casein, thus giving rise to the so-
called spontaneous coagulation of milk.
 -- Lactic fermentation. See under Fermentation.

LACTIDE
Lac"tide, n. Etym: [Lactic + anhydride.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline substance, obtained from also, by
extension, any similar substance.

LACTIFEROUS
Lac*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [l. lac, lactis, milk + -ferous: cf. F.
lactifère.]

Defn: Bearing or containing milk or a milky fluid; as, the
lactiferous vessels, cells, or tissue of various vascular plants.

LACTIFIC; LACTIFICAL
Lac*tif"ic, Lac*tif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + facere to
make.]

Defn: Producing or yielding milk.

LACTIFUGE
Lac"ti*fuge, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + fugare to expel.]
(Med.)

Defn: A medicine to check the secretion of milk, or to dispel a
supposed accumulation of milk in any part of the body.

LACTIM
Lac"tim, n. Etym: [Lactic + imido.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of anhydrides resembling the lactams, but of an
imido type; as, isatine is a lactim. Cf. Lactam.

LACTIMIDE
Lac*tim"ide, n. Etym: [Lactic + imide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline substance obtained as an anhydride of
alanine, and regarded as an imido derivative of lactic acid.

LACTIN
Lac"tin, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk: cf. F. lactine. Cf.
Galactin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: See Lactose.

LACTOABUMIN
Lac`to*a*bu"min, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + E. albumin.]
(Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The albumin present on milk, apparently identical with ordinary
serum albumin. It is distinct from the casein of milk.

LACTOBUTYROMETER
Lac`to*bu`ty*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + E.
butyrometer.]

Defn: An instrument for determining the amount of butter fat
contained in a given sample of milk.

LACTODENSIMETER
Lac`to*den*sim"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + E.
densimeter.]

Defn: A form of hydrometer, specially graduated, for finding the
density of milk, and thus discovering whether it has been mixed with
water or some of the cream has been removed.

LACTOMETER
Lac*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + meter: cf. F.
lactomètre. Cf. Galactometer.]

Defn: An instrument for estimating the purity or richness of milk, as
a measuring glass, a specific gravity bulb, or other apparatus.

LACTONE
Lac"tone, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of organic compounds, regarded as anhydrides of
certain hydroxy acids. In general, they are colorless liquids, having
a weak aromatic odor. They are so called because the typical lactone
is derived from lactic acid.

LACTONIC
Lac*ton"ic, a. Etym: [From Lactone.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, lactone.

LACTONIC
Lac*ton"ic, a. Etym: [From Lactose.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the
oxidation of milk sugar (lactose).

LACTOPROTEIN
Lac`to*pro"te*in, n. Etym: [L.lac, lactis,milk + E. protein.]
(Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar albuminous body considered a normal constituent of
milk.

LACTORY
Lac"to*ry, a.

Defn: Lactiferous. [Obs.] "Lactory or milky plants." Sir T. Browne.

LACTOSCOPE
Lac"to*scope, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis + scope.]

Defn: An instrument for estimating the amount of cream contained in
milk by ascertaining its relative opacity.

LACTOSE
Lac"tose`, n.

1. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Sugar of milk or milk sugar; a crystalline sugar present in
milk, and separable from the whey by evaporation and crystallization.
It has a slightly sweet taste, is dextrorotary, and is much less
soluble in water than either cane sugar or glucose. Formerly called
lactin.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: See Galactose.

LACTUCA
Lac*tu"ca, n. Etym: [L., lettuce. See Lettuce.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of composite herbs, several of which are cultivated foe
salad; lettuce.

LACTUCARIUM
Lac`tu*ca"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. lactuca lettuce.]

Defn: The inspissated juice of the common lettuce, sometimes used as
a substitute for opium.

LACTUCIC
Lac*tu"cic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the juice of the Lactuca
virosa; -- said of certain acids.

LACTUCIN
Lac*tu"cin, n. Etym: [From Lactuca: cf. F. lactucine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline substance, having a bitter taste and a
neutral reaction, and forming one of the essential ingredients of
lactucarium.

LACTUCONE
Lac*tu"cone, n. Etym: [From Lactuca.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, tasteless substance, found in the milky
sap of species of Lactuca, and constituting an essential ingredient
of lactucarium.

LACTURAMIC
Lac`tu*ram"ic (, a. Etym: [Lactic + urea + amic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an organic amido acid, which is
regarded as a derivative of lactic acid and urea.

LACTYL
Lac"tyl, n. Etym: [Lactic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: An organic residue or radical derived from lactic acid.

LACUNA
La*cu"na, n.; pl. L. Lacunæ; E. Lacunas. Etym: [L., ditch, pit, lake,
orig., anything hollow. See Lagoon.]

1. A small opening; a small pit or depression; a small blank space; a
gap or vacancy; a hiatus.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A small opening; a small depression or cavity; a space, as a
vacant space between the cells of plants, or one of the spaces left
among the tissues of the lower animals, which serve in place of
vessels for the circulation of the body fluids, or the cavity or sac,
usually of very small size, in a mucous membrane.

LACUNAL; LACUNAR
La*cu"nal, La*cu"nar, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or having, lacunæ; as, a lacunar circulation.

LACUNAR
La*cu"nar, n.; pl. E. Lacunars, L. Lacunaria. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)
(a) The ceiling or under surface of any part, especially when it
consists of compartments, sunk or hollowed without spaces or bands
between the panels. Gwilt
(b) One of the sunken panels in such a ceiling.

LACUNE
La*cune", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A lacuna. [R.] Landor.

LACUNOSE; LACUNOUS
Lac"u*nose`, La*cu"nous, a. Etym: [L. lacunosus full of holes or
hollows; cf. F. lacuneux. See Lacuna.] (Biol.)

Defn: Furrowed or pitted; having shallow cavities or lacunæ; as, a
lacunose leaf.

LACUSTRAL; LACUSTRINE
La*cus"tral, La*cus"trine, a. Etym: [L. lacus lake: cf. F. lacustral,
lacustre.]

Defn: Found in, or pertaining to, lakes or ponds, or growing in them;
as, lacustrine flowers. Lacustrine deposits (Geol.), the deposits
which have been accumulated in fresh-water areas.
 -- Lacustrine dwellings. See Lake dwellings, under Lake.

LACWORK
Lac"work`, n.

Defn: Ornamentation by means of lacquer painted or carved, or simply
colored, sprinkled with gold or the like; -- said especially of
Oriental work of this kind.

LAD
Lad, obs. p. p.

Defn: of Lead, to guide Chaucer.

LAD
Lad, n. Etym: [OE. ladde, of Celtic origin; cf. W. , Ir. lath. (. Cf.
Lass.]

1. A boy; a youth; a stripling. "Cupid is a knavish lad." Shak.
There is a lad here, which hath fire barley loaves and two small
fishes. John vi. 9.

2. A companion; a comrade; a mate. Lad's love. (Bot.) See Boy's love,
under Boy.

LADANUM
Lad"a*num, n. Etym: [L. ladanum, ledanum, Fr. (ladan, laden. Cf.
Laudanum.]

Defn: A gum resin gathered from certain Oriental species of Cistus.
It has a pungent odor and is chiefly used in making plasters, and for
fumigation. [Written also labdanum.]

LADDE
Lad"de, obs. imp.

Defn: of Lead, to guide. Chaucer.

LADDER
Lad"der, n. Etym: [OE. laddre, AS. hl, hl; akin to OFries. hladder,
OHG.leitara, G. leiter, and from the root of E. lean, v. (Lean, v.
i., and cf. Climax.]

1. A frame usually portable, of wood, metal, or rope, for ascent and
descent, consisting of two side pieces to which are fastened cross
strips or rounds forming steps.
Some the engines play, And some, more bold, mount ladders to the
fire. Dryden.

2. That which resembles a ladder in form or use; hence, that by means
of which one attains to eminence.
Lowliness is young ambition's ladder. Shak.
Fish ladder. See under Fish.
 -- Ladder beetle (Zoöl.), an American leaf beetle (Chrysomela
scalaris). The elytra are silvery white, striped and spotted with
green; the under wings are rose-colored. It feeds upon the linden
tree.
 -- Ladder handle, an iron rail at the side of a vertical fixed
ladder, to grasp with the hand in climbing.
 -- Ladder shell (Zoöl.), a spiral marine shell of the genus
Scalaria. See Scalaria.

LADDIE
Lad"die, n.

Defn: A lad; a male sweetheart. [Scot.]

LADE
Lade, v. t. [imp. Laded; p. p. Laded, Laded (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lading.] Etym: [AS. hladan to heap, load, draw (water); akin to D. &
G. laden to load, OHG. hladan, ladan, Icel. hla, Sw. ladda, Dan.
lade, Goth. afhlapan. Cf. Load, Ladle, Lathe for turning, Last a
load.]

1. To load; to put a burden or freight on or in; -- generally
followed by that which receives the load, as the direct object.
And they laded their asses with the corn. Gen. xlii. 26.

2. To throw in out. with a ladle or dipper; to dip; as, to lade water
out of a tub, or into a cistern.
And chides the sea that sunders him from thence, Saying, he'll lade
it dry to have his way. Shak.

3. (Plate Glass Manuf.)

Defn: To transfer (the molten glass) from the pot to the forming
table.

LADE
Lade, v. i. Etym: [See Lade, v. t.]

1. To draw water. [Obs.]

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To admit water by leakage, as a ship, etc.

LADE
Lade, n. Etym: [Prov. E., a ditch or drain. Cf. Lode, Lead to
conduct.]

1. The mouth of a river. [Obs.] Bp. Gibson.

2. A passage for water; a ditch or drain. [Prov. Eng.]

LADEMAN
Lade"man, n.

Defn: One who leads a pack horse; a miller's servant. [Obs. or Local]

LADEN
Lad"en, p. & a.

Defn: Loaded; freighted; burdened; as, a laden vessel; a laden heart.
Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity. Is. i. 4.
A ship laden with gold. Shak.

LADIED
La"died, a.

Defn: Ladylike; not rough; gentle. [Obs.] "Stroked with a ladied
land." Feltham.

LADIES' EARDROPS
La"dies' ear`drops`. (Bot.)

Defn: The small-flowered Fuchsia (F. coccinea), and other closely
related species.

LADIFY
La"di*fy, v. t. Etym: [Lady + -fy.]

Defn: To make a lady of; to make ladylike. [Obs.] Massinger.

LADIN
La*din", n. Etym: [From L. Latinus Latin. See Latin]

Defn: A Romansch dialect spoken in some parts of Switzerland and the
Tyrol.

LADING
Lad"ing, n.

1. The act of loading.

2. That which lades or constitutes a load or cargo; freight; burden;
as, the lading of a ship. Bill of lading. See under Bill.

LADINO
La*di"no, n.; pl. Ladinos. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: One of the half-breed descendants of whites and Indians; a
mestizo; -- so called throughout Central America. They are usually of
a yellowish orange tinge. Am. Cyc.

LADKIN
Lad"kin, n.

Defn: A little lad. [R.] Dr. H. More.

LADLE
La"dle, n. Etym: [AS.hlædel, fr. hladan to load, drain. See Lade, v.
t.]

1. A cuplike spoon, often of large size, with a long handle, used in
lading or dipping.
When the materials of glass have been kept long in fusion, the
mixture casts up the superfluous salt, which the workmen take off
with ladles. Boyle.

2. (Founding)

Defn: A vessel to carry liquid metal from the furnace to the mold.

3. The float of a mill wheel; -- called also ladle board.

4. (Gun.)
(a) An instrument for drawing the charge of a cannon.
(b) A ring, with a handle or handles fitted to it, for carrying shot.
Ladle wood (Bot.), the wood of a South African tree (Cassine
Colpoon), used for carving.

LADLE
La"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ladled; p. pr. & vb. n. Ladling.]

Defn: To take up and convey in a ladle; to dip with, or as with, a
ladle; as, to ladle out soup; to ladle oatmeal into a kettle.

LADLEFUL
La"dle*ful, n.; pl. Ladlefuls (.

Defn: A quantity sufficient to fill a ladle.

LADRONE
La*drone", n. Etym: [Sp. ladron, L. latro servant, robber, Gr. (

Defn: A robber; a pirate; hence, loosely, a rogue or rascal.

LADY
La"dy, n.; pl. Ladies. Etym: [OE. ladi, læfdi, AS. hl, hl; AS. hlaf
loaf + a root of uncertain origin, possibly akin to E. dairy. See
Loaf, and cf. Lord.]

1. A woman who looks after the domestic affairs of a family; a
mistress; the female head of a household.
Agar, the handmaiden of Sara, whence comest thou, and whither goest
thou The which answered, Fro the face of Sara my lady. Wyclif (Gen.
xvi. 8.).

2. A woman having proprietary rights or authority; mistress; -- a
feminine correlative of lord. "Lord or lady of high degree." Lowell.
Of all these bounds, even from this line to this, . . . We make thee
lady. Shak.

3. A woman to whom the particular homage of a knight was paid; a
woman to whom one is devoted or bound; a sweetheart.
The soldier here his wasted store supplies, And takes new valor from
his lady's eyes. Waller.

4. A woman of social distinction or position. In England, a title
prefixed to the name of any woman whose husband is not of lower rank
than a baron, or whose father was a nobleman not lower than an earl.
The wife of a baronet or knight has the title of Lady by courtesy,
but not by right.

5. A woman of refined or gentle manners; a well-bred woman; -- the
feminine correlative of gentleman.

6. A wife; -- not now in approved usage. Goldsmith.

7. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The triturating apparatus in the stomach of a lobster; -- so
called from a fancied resemblance to a seated female figure. It
consists of calcareous plates. Ladies' man, a man who affects the
society of ladies.
 -- Lady altar, an altar in a lady chapel. Shipley.
 -- Lady chapel, a chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary.
 -- Lady court, the court of a lady of the manor.
 -- Lady crab (Zoöl.), a handsomely spotted swimming crab
(Platyonichus ocellatus) very common on the sandy shores of the
Atlantic coast of the United States.
 -- Lady fern. (Bot.) See Female fern, under Female, and Illust. of
Fern.
 -- Lady in waiting, a lady of the queen's household, appointed to
wait upon or attend the queen.
 -- Lady Mass, a Mass said in honor of the Virgin Mary. Shipley. Lady
of the manor, a lady having jurisdiction of a manor; also, the wife
of a manor lord. Lady's maid, a maidservant who dresses and waits
upon a lady. Thackeray.
 -- Our Lady, the Virgin Mary.

LADY
La"dy, a.

Defn: Belonging or becoming to a lady; ladylike. "Some lady trifles."
Shak.

LADYBIRD
La"dy*bird`, n. Etym: [Equiv. to, bird of Our Lady.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small beetles of the genus
Coccinella and allied genera (family Coccinellidæ); -- called also
ladybug, ladyclock, lady cow, lady fly, and lady beetle. Coccinella
seplempunctata in one of the common European species. See Coccinella.

Note: The ladybirds are usually more or less hemispherical in form,
with a smooth, polished surface, and often colored red, brown, or
black, with small spots of brighter colors. Both the larvæ and the
adult beetles of most species feed on aphids, and for this reason
they are very beneficial to agriculture and horticulture.

LADYBUG
La"dy*bug`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Ladybird.

LADYCLOCK
La"dy*clock`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Ladyrird.

LADY DAY
La"dy` day

Defn: The day of the annunciation of the Virgin Mary, March 25. See
Annunciation.

LADY DAY
La"dy` Day` (da).

Defn: The day of the annunciation of the Virgin Mary, March 25. See
Annunciation.

LADYFISH
La"dy*fish`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) A large, handsome oceanic fish (Albula vulpes), found both in the
Atlantic and Pacific oceans; -- called also bonefish, grubber, French
mullet, and macabé.
(b) A labroid fish (Harpe rufa) of Florida and the West Indies.

LADYHOOD
La"dy*hood, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being a lady; the personality of a
lady.

LADY-KILLER
La"dy-kill`er, n.

Defn: A gallant who captivates the hearts of women. "A renowned dandy
and lady-killer." Blackw. Mag.

LADY-KILLING
La"dy-kill`ing, n.

Defn: The art or practice of captivating the hearts of women.
Better for the sake of womankind that this dangerous dog should leave
off lady-killing. Thackeray.

LADYKIN
La"dy*kin, n. Etym: [Lady + -kin.]

Defn: A little lady; -- applied by the writers of Queen Elizabeth's
time, in the abbreviated form Lakin, to the Virgin Mary.

Note: The diminutive does not refer to size, but is equivalent to
"dear." Brewer.

LADYLIKE
La"dy*like`, a.

1. Like a lady in appearance or manners; well-bred.
She was ladylike, too, after the manner of the feminine gentility of
those days. Hawthorne.

2. Becoming or suitable to a lady; as, ladylike manners. "With
fingers ladylike." Warner.

3. Delicate; tender; feeble; effeminate.
Too ladylike a long fatigue to bear. Dryden.

LADYLIKENESS
La"dy*like`ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being ladylike.

LADYLOVE
La"dy*love`, n.

Defn: A sweetheart or mistress.

LADY'S BEDSTRAW
La"dy's bed"straw`, (Bot.)

Defn: The common bedstraw (Galium verum); also, a slender-leaved East
Indian shrub (Pharnaceum Mollugo), with white flowers in umbels.

LADY'S BOWER
La"dy's bow"er. (Bot.)

Defn: A climbing plant with fragrant blossoms (Clematis vitalba).

Note: This term is sometimes applied to other plants of the same
genus.

LADY'S CLOTH
La"dy's cloth`

Defn: A kind of broadcloth of light weight, used for women's dresses,
cloaks, etc.

LADY'S COMB
La"dy's comb", (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant (Scandix Pecten-Veneris), its clusters
of long slender fruits remotely resembling a comb.

LADY'S CUSHION
La"dy's cush"ion, (Bot.)

Defn: An herb growing in dense tufts; the thrift (Armeria vulgaris).

LADY'S FINGER
La"dy's fin"ger,

1. pl. (Bot.)

Defn: The kidney vetch.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: A variety of small cake of about the dimensions of a finger.

3. A long, slender variety of the potato.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the branchiæ of the lobster.

LADY'S GARTERS
La"dy's gar"ters. (Bot.)

Defn: Ribbon grass.

LADY'S HAIR
La"dy's hair". (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Briza (B. media); a variety of quaking
grass.

LADYSHIP
La"dy*ship, n.

Defn: The rank or position of a lady; -- given as a title (preceded
by her or your.)
Your ladyship shall observe their gravity. B. Jonson.

LADY'S LACES
La"dy's la"ces. (Bot.)

Defn: A slender climbing plant; dodder.

LADY'S LOOKING-GLASS
La"dy's look"ing-glass`. (Bot.)

Defn: See Venus's looking-glass, under Venus.

LADY'S MANTLE
La"dy's man"tle. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of rosaceous herbs (Alchemilla), esp. the European A.
vulgaris, which has leaves with rounded and finely serrated lobes.

LADY'S SEAL
La"dy's seal".(Bot.)
(a) The European Solomon's seal (Polygonatum verticillatum).
(b) The black bryony (Tamus communis).

LADY'S SLIPPER
La"dy's slip"per. (Bot.)

Defn: Any orchidaceous plant of the genus Cypripedium, the labellum
of which resembles a slipper. Less commonly, in the United States,
the garden balsam (Impatiens Balsamina).

LADY'S SMOCK
La"dy's smock". (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Cardamine (C. pratensis); cuckoo flower.

LADY'S THIMBLE
La"dy's thim"ble. (Bot.)

Defn: The harebell.

LADY'S THUMB
La"dy's thumb". (Bot.)

Defn: An annual weed (Polygonum Persicaria), having a lanceolate leaf
with a dark spot in the middle.

LADY'S TRACES; LADIES' TRESSES; LADIES TRESSES
La"dy's tra"ces, La"dies' tress"es. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several species of the orchidaceous genus
Spiranthes, in which the white flowers are set in spirals about a
slender axis and remotely resemble braided hair.

LAELAPS
Læ"laps, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ( (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of huge, carnivorous, dinosaurian reptiles from the
Cretaceous formation of the United States. They had very large hind
legs and tail, and are supposed to have been bipedal. Some of the
species were about eighteen feet high.

LAEMMERGEYER
Laem"mer*gey`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lammergeir.

LAEMODIPOD
Læ*mod"i*pod, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Læmodipoda.

LAEMODIPODA
Læ`mo*dip"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of amphipod Crustacea, in which the abdomen is small
or rudimentary and the legs are often reduced to five pairs. The
whale louse, or Cyamus, and Caprella are examples.

LAEMODIPODOUS
Læ`mo*dip"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Læmodipoda.

LAETERE SUNDAY
Læ*te"re Sun"day

Defn: . The fourth Sunday of Lent; -- so named from the Latin word
Lætare (rejoice), the first word in the antiphone of the introit sung
that day in the Roman Catholic service.

LAEVIGATE
Læv"i*gate, a. Etym: [See Levigate.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having a smooth surface, as if polished.

LAEVO-
Læ"vo-

Defn: . A prefix. See Levo.

LAEVOROTATORY
Læ"vo*ro"ta*to*ry, a.

Defn: Same as Levorotatory. Cf. Dextrorotatory.

LAEVULOSE
Læv"u*lose`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Levulose.

LAFAYETTE
La`fa`yette", n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The dollar fish.
(b) A market fish, the goody, or spot (Liostomus xanthurus), of the
southern coast of the United States.

LAFT
Laft, obs. p. p.

Defn: of Leave. Chaucer.

LAFTE
Laf"te, obs. imp.

Defn: of Leave. Chaucer.

LAG
Lag, a. Etym: [Of Celtic origin: cf. Gael. & Ir. lagweak, feeble,
faint, W. llag, llac, slack, loose, remiss, sluggish; prob. akin to
E. lax, languid.]

1. Coming tardily after or behind; slow; tardy. [Obs.]
Came too lag to see him buried. Shak.

2. Last; long-delayed; -- obsolete, except in the phrase lag end.
"The lag end of my life." Shak.

3. Last made; hence, made of refuse; inferior. [Obs.] "Lag souls."
Dryden.

LAG
Lag, n.

1. One who lags; that which comes in last. [Obs.] "The lag of all the
flock." Pope.

2. The fag-end; the rump; hence, the lowest class.
The common lag of people. Shak.

3. The amount of retardation of anything, as of a valve in a steam
engine, in opening or closing.

4. A stave of a cask, drum, etc.; especially (Mach.), one of the
narrow boards or staves forming the covering of a cylindrical object,
as a boiler, or the cylinder of a carding machine or a steam engine.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Graylag. Lag of the tide, the interval by which the time of
high water falls behind the mean time, in the first and third
quarters of the moon; -- opposed to priming of the tide, or the
acceleration of the time of high water, in the second and fourth
quarters; depending on the relative positions of the sun and moon.
 -- Lag screw, an iron bolt with a square head, a sharp-edged thread,
and a sharp point, adapted for screwing into wood; a screw for
fastening lags.

LAG
Lag, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Lagging.]

Defn: To walk or more slowly; to stay or fall behind; to linger or
loiter. "I shall not lag behind." Milton.

Syn.
 -- To loiter; linger; saunter; delay; be tardy.

LAG
Lag, v. t.

1. To cause to lag; to slacken. [Obs.] "To lag his flight." Heywood.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: To cover, as the cylinder of a steam engine, with lags. See
Lag, n., 4.

LAG
Lag, n.

Defn: One transported for a crime. [Slang, Eng.]

LAG
Lag, v. t.

Defn: To transport for crime. [Slang, Eng.]
She lags us if we poach. De Quincey.

LAGAN
La"gan, n. & v.

Defn: See Ligan.

LAGARTO
La*gar"to, n. Etym: [See Alligator.]

Defn: An alligator. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.

LAGENA
La*ge"na, n.; pl. L. Lagenæ, E. Lagenas. Etym: [L., a flask; cf. Gr.
(Anat.)

Defn: The terminal part of the cochlea in birds and most reptiles; an
appendage of the sacculus, corresponding to the cochlea, in fishes
and amphibians.

LAGENIAN
La*ge"ni*an, a. Etym: [See Lagena.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, Lagena, a genus of Foraminifera having
a straight, chambered shell.

LAGENIFORM
La*ge"ni*form, a. Etym: [See Lagena, and -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a bottle or flask; flag-shaped.

LAGER
La"ger, n.

Defn: Lager beer.

LAGER BEER
La"ger beer`. Etym: [G. lager bed, storehouse + bier beer. See Lair,
and Beer.]

Defn: Originally a German beer, but now also made in immense
quantities in the United States; -- so called from its being laid up
or stored for some months before use.

LAGER WINE
La"ger wine`

Defn: . Wine which has been kept for some time in the cellar.
Simmonds.

LAGGARD
Lag"gard, a. Etym: [Lag + -ard.]

Defn: Slow; sluggish; backward.

LAGGARD
Lag"gard, n.

Defn: One who lags; a loiterer.

LAGGER
Lag"ger, n.

Defn: A laggard.

LAGGING
Lag"ging, n.

1. (Mach.)

Defn: The clothing (esp., an outer, wooden covering), as of a steam
cylinder, applied to prevent the radiation of heat; a covering of
lags; -- called also deading and cleading.

2. Lags, collectively; narrow planks extending from one rib to
another in the centering of arches.

LAGGINGLY
Lag"ging*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lagging manner; loiteringly.

LAGLY
Lag"ly, adv.

Defn: Laggingly. [Prov. Eng.]

LAGNIAPPE; LAGNAPPE
La*gniappe, La*gnappe", n. [Etym. uncertain.]

Defn: In Louisiana, a trifling present given to customers by
tradesmen; a gratuity.

Lagniappe . . .is something thrown in, gratis, for good measure.
Mark Twain.

LAGOMORPH
Lag"o*morph, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Lagomorpha.

LAGOMORPHA
Lag`o*mor"pha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of rodents, including the hares. They have four
incisors in the upper jaw. Called also Duplicidentata.

LAGOON
La*goon", n. Etym: [It. or Sp. laguna, L. lacuna ditch, pool,
pond,lacus lake. See Lake, and cf. Lacuna.] [Written also lagune.]

1. A shallow sound, channel, pond, or lake, especially one into which
the sea flows; as, the lagoons of Venice.

2. A lake in a coral island, often occupying a large portion of its
area, and usually communicating with the sea. See Atoll. Lagoon
island, a coral island consisting of a narrow reef encircling a
lagoon.

LAGOPHTHALMIA; LAGOPHTHALMOS
Lag`oph*thal"mi*a, Lag`oph*thal"mos, n. Etym: [NL. lagophtalmia, fr.
Gr. lagw`s hare + 'ofqalmo`s eye; -- so called from the notion that a
hare sleeps with his eyes open.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition in which the eye stands wide open, giving a
peculiar staring appearance.

LAGOPOUS
La*go"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a dense covering of long hair, like the foot of a hare.

LAGTHING
Lag"thing, n. [Norw. lagting, lagthing; lag company, society (akin to
E. law, lay) + ting, thing, parliament. See Thing.]

Defn: See Legislatature, below.

LAGUNE
La*gune", n.

Defn: See Lagoon.

LAIC; LAICAL
La"ic, La"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. laicus: cf. F. laïque. See Lay laic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a layman or the laity. "Laical literature."
Lowell.
An unprincipled, unedified, and laic rabble. Milton.

LAIC
La"ic, n.

Defn: A layman. Bp. Morton.

LAICALITY
La"ic*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being laic; the state or condition of a
layman.

LAICALLY
La"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: As a layman; after the manner of a layman; as, to treat a
matter laically.

LAID
Laid, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Lay. Laid paper, paper marked with parallel lines or water
marks, as if ribbed, from parallel wires in the mold. It is called
blue laid, cream laid, etc., according to its color.

LAIDLY
Laid"ly, a.

Defn: Ugly; loathsome. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
This laidly and loathsome worm. W. Howitt.

LAIN
Lain, p. p.

Defn: of Lie, v. i.

LAINERE
Lain"ere, n.

Defn: See Lanier. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAIR
Lair, n. Etym: [OE. leir, AS. leger; akin to D. leger, G. lager
couch, lair, OHG. laga, Goth. ligrs, and to E. lie. See Lie to be
prostrate, and cf. Layer, Leaguer.]

1. A place in which to lie or rest; especially, the bed or couch of a
wild beast.

2. A burying place. [Scot.] Jamieson.

3. A pasture; sometimes, food. [Obs.] Spenser.

LAIRD
Laird, n. Etym: [See Lord.]

Defn: A lord; a landholder, esp. one who holds land directly of the
crown. [Scot.]

LAIRDSHIP
Laird"ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a laird; an estate; landed property. [Scot.]
Ramsay.

LAISM
La"ism, n.

Defn: See Lamaism. [R.]

LAISSEZ FAIRE
Lais`sez" faire". Etym: [F., let alone.]

Defn: Noninterference; -- an axiom of some political economists,
deprecating interference of government by attempts to foster or
regulate commerce, manufactures, etc., by bounty or by restriction;
as, the doctrine of laissez faire; the laissez faire system
government.

LAITY
La"i*ty, n. Etym: [See Lay, a.]

1. The people, as distinguished from the clergy; the body of the
people not in orders.
A rising up of the laity against the sacerdotal caste. Macaulay.

2. The state of a layman. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

3. Those who are not of a certain profession, as law or medicine, in
distinction from those belonging to it.

LAKAO
La*ka"o, n.

Defn: Sap green. [China]

LAKE
Lake, n. Etym: [F. laque, fr. Per. See Lac.]

Defn: A pigment formed by combining some coloring matter, usually by
precipitation, with a metallic oxide or earth, esp. with aluminium
hydrate; as, madder lake; Florentine lake; yellow lake, etc.

LAKE
Lake, n. Etym: [Cf. G. laken.]

Defn: A kind of fine white linen, formerly in use. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAKE
Lake, v. i. Etym: [AS. lacan, læcan, to spring, jump, lac play,
sport, or fr. Icel. leika to play, sport; both akin to Goth. laikan
to dance. sq. root120. Cf. Knowledge.]

Defn: To play; to sport. [Prov. Eng.]

LAKE
Lake, n. Etym: [AS. lac, L. lacus; akin to AS. lagu lake, sea, Icel.
lögr; OIr. loch; cf. Gr. Loch, Lough.]

Defn: A large body of water contained in a depression of the earth's
surface, and supplied from the drainage of a more or less extended
area.

Note: Lakes are for the most part of fresh water; the salt lakes,
like the Great Salt Lake of Utah, have usually no outlet to the
ocean. Lake dwellers (Ethnol.), people of a prehistoric race, or
races, which inhabited different parts of Europe. Their dwellings
were built on piles in lakes, a short distance from the shore. Their
relics are common in the lakes of Switzerland.
 -- Lake dwellings (Archæol.), dwellings built over a lake, sometimes
on piles, and sometimes on rude foundations kept in place by piles;
specifically, such dwellings of prehistoric times. Lake dwellings are
still used by many savage tribes. Called also lacustrine dwellings.
See Crannog.
 -- Lake fly (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of dipterous flies
of the genus Chironomus. In form they resemble mosquitoes, but they
do not bite. The larvæ live in lakes.
 -- Lake herring (Zoöl.), the cisco (Coregonus Artedii).
 -- Lake poets, Lake school, a collective name originally applied in
contempt, but now in honor, to Southey, Coleridge, and Wordsworth,
who lived in the lake country of Cumberland, England, Lamb and a few
others were classed with these by hostile critics. Called also lakers
and lakists.
 -- Lake sturgeon (Zoöl.), a sturgeon (Acipenser rubicundus), of
moderate size, found in the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River. It
is used as food.
 -- Lake trout (Zoöl.), any one of several species of trout and
salmon; in Europe, esp. Salmo fario; in the United States, esp.
Salvelinus namaycush of the Great Lakes, and of various lakes in New
York, Eastern Maine, and Canada. A large variety of brook trout (S.
fontinalis), inhabiting many lakes in New England, is also called
lake trout. See Namaycush.
 -- Lake whitefish. (Zoöl.) See Whitefish.
 -- Lake whiting (Zoöl.), an American whitefish (Coregonus
Labradoricus), found in many lakes in the Northern United States and
Canada. It is more slender than the common whitefish.

LAKE-DWELLER
Lake"-dwell`er, n.

Defn: See Lake dwellers, under Lake.

LAKELET
Lake"let, n.

Defn: A little lake. Southey.

LAKER
Lak"er, n. One that is connected with a lake or lakes, as in
habitation, toil, etc.:
 (a) One of the poets of the Lake school. See Lake poets, under Lake,
n.
 (b) (Zoöl.) A fish living in, or taken from, a lake, esp. the
namaycush.
 (c) A lake steamer or canal boat.

The bridge tender . . . thought the Cowies "a little mite" longer
than that laker.
The Century.

LAKEWEED
Lake"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The water pepper (Polygonum Hydropiper), an aquatic plant of
Europe and North America.

LAKH
Lakh, n.

Defn: Same as Lac, one hundred thousand.

LAKIN
La"kin, n.

Defn: See Ladykin.

LAKKE
Lak"ke, n. & v.

Defn: See Lack. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAKY
Lak"y, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a lake. Sir W. Scott.

LAKY
Lak"y, a. Etym: [From Lake the pigment.]

Defn: Transparent; -- said of blood rendered transparent by the
action of some solvent agent on the red blood corpuscles.

LALLATION
Lal*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. lallare to sing lalla, or lullaby: cf. F.
lallation.]

Defn: An imperfect enunciation of the letter r, in which it sounds
like l.

LALO
La"lo, n.

Defn: The powdered leaves of the baobab tree, used by the Africans to
mix in their soup, as the southern negroes use powdered sassafras.
Cf. Couscous.

LAM
Lam, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lammed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lamming.] Etym:
[Icel. lemja to beat, or lama to bruise, both fr. lami, lama, lame.
See Lame.]

Defn: To beat soundly; to thrash. [Obs. or Low] Beau. & Fl.

LAMA
La"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Llama.

LAMA
La"ma, n. Etym: [Thibet. blama (pronounced lä''ma) a chief, a high
priest.]

Defn: In Thibet, Mongolia, etc., a priest or monk of the belief
called Lamaism. The Grand Lama, or Dalai Lama Etym: [lit., Ocean
Lama], the supreme pontiff in the lamaistic hierarchy. See Lamaism.

LAMAIC
La"ma*ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lamaism.

LAMAISM
La"ma*ism, n.

Defn: A modified form of Buddhism which prevails in Thibet, Mongolia,
and some adjacent parts of Asia; -- so called from the name of its
priests. See 2d Lama.

LAMAIST; LAMAITE
La"ma*ist, La"ma*ite n.

Defn: One who believes in Lamaism.

LAMAISTIC
La`ma*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lamaism.

LAMANTIN
La*man"tin, n. Etym: [F. lamantin, lamentin, prob. from the name of
the animal in the Antilles. Cf. Manater.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The manatee. [Written also lamentin, and lamantine.]

LAMARCKIAN
La*marck"i*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or involved in, the doctrines of Lamarckianism.

LAMARCKIANISM
La*marck"i*an*ism, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Lamarckism.

LAMARCKISM
La"marck"ism, n. Etym: [From Lamarck, a distinguished French
naturalist.] (Biol.)

Defn: The theory that structural variations, characteristic of
species and genera, are produced in animals and plants by the direct
influence of physical environments, and esp., in the case of animals,
by effort, or by use or disuse of certain organs.

LAMASERY
La"ma*ser*y, n. Etym: [See 2d Lama.]

Defn: A mo

LAMB
Lamb, n. Etym: [AS. lamb; akin to D. & Dan. lam, G. & Sw. lamm, OS.,
Goth., & Icel. lamb.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The young of the sheep.

2. Any person who is as innocent or gentle as a lamb.

3. A simple, unsophisticated person; in the cant of the Stock
Exchange, one who ignorantly speculates and is victimized. Lamb of
God, The Lamb (Script.), the Jesus Christ, in allusion to the paschal
lamb.
The twelve apostles of the Lamb. Rev. xxi. 14.
Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. John
i. 29.
-- Lamb's lettuce (Bot.), an annual plant with small obovate leaves
(Valerianella olitoria), often used as a salad; corn salad. [Written
also lamb lettuce.] -- Lamb's tongue, a carpenter's plane with a deep
narrow bit, for making curved grooves. Knight.
 -- Lamb's wool. (a) The wool of a lamb. (b) Ale mixed with the pulp
of roasted apples; -- probably from the resemblance of the pulp of
roasted apples to lamb's wool. [Obs.] Goldsmith.

LAMB
Lamb, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lambed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lambing.]

Defn: To bring forth a lamb or lambs, as sheep.

LAMBALE
Lamb"ale`, n.

Defn: A feast at the time of shearing lambs.

LAMBASTE
Lam*baste", v. t. Etym: [Lam + baste to beat.]

Defn: To beat severely. [Low] Nares.

LAMBATIVE
Lam"ba*tive, a. Etym: [L. lambere to lick. See Lambent.]

Defn: Taken by licking with the tongue. "Sirups and lambative
medicines." Sir T. Browne.

LAMBATIVE
Lam"ba*tive, n.

Defn: A medicine taken by licking with the tongue; a lincture.
Wiseman.

LAMBDA
Lamb"da, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. The name of the Greek letter

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The point of junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures of
the skull. Lambda moth (Zoöl.), a moth so called from a mark on its
wings, resembling the Greek letter lambda (

LAMBDACISM
Lamb"da*cism, n. Etym: [L. lambdacismus, Gr. la`mbda the letter
lambda (

1. A fault in speaking or in composition, which consists in too
frequent use of the letter l, or in doubling it erroneously.

2. A defect in pronunciation of the letter l when doubled, which
consists in giving it a sound as if followed by y, similar to that of
the letters lli in billion.

3. The use of the sound of l for that of r in pronunciation;
lallation; as, Amelican for American.

LAMBDOID
Lamb"doid, a. Etym: [Gr. la`mbda the letter lambda (e"i^dos shape.]

Defn: Shaped like the Greek letter lambda (as, the lambdoid suture
between the occipital and parietal bones of the skull.

LAMBDOIDAL
Lamb*doid"al, a.

Defn: Same as Lambdoid.

LAMBENT
Lam"bent, a. Etym: [L. lambens, -enlis, p. pr. of lambere to lick;
akin to lap. See Lap to drink by licking.]

1. Playing on the surface; touching lightly; gliding over. "A lambent
flame." Dryden. "A lambent style." Beaconsfield.

2. Twinkling or gleaming; fickering. "The lambent purity of the
stars." W. Irving.

LAMBERT PINE
Lam"bert pine`. Etym: [So called from Lambert, an English botanist.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The gigantic sugar pine of California and Oregon (Pinus
Lambertiana). It has the leaves in fives, and cones a foot long. The
timber is soft, and like that of the white pine of the Eastern
States.

LAMBKILL
Lamb"kill`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A small American ericaceous shrub (Kalmia angustifolia); --
called also calfkill, sheepkill, sheep laurel, etc. It is supposed to
poison sheep and other animals that eat it at times when the snow is
deep and they cannot find other food.

LAMBKIN
Lamb"kin, n.

Defn: A small lamb.

LAMBLIKE
Lamb"like, a.

Defn: Like a lamb; gentle; meek; inoffensive.

LAMBOYS
Lam"boys, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. F. lambeau. Cf. Label.] (Anc. Armor)

Defn: Same as Base, n., 19.

LAMBREQUIN
Lam"bre*quin, n. Etym: [F. Cf. Lamboys, Label.]

1. A kind of pendent scarf or covering attached to the helmet, to
protect it from wet or heat.

2. A leather flap hanging from a cuirass. Wilhelm.

3. A piece of ornament drapery or short decorative hanging, pendent
from a shelf or from the casing above a window, hiding the curtain
fixtures, or the like.

LAMBSKIN
Lamb"skin`, n.

1. The skin of a lamb; especially, a skin dressed with the wool on,
and used as a mat. Also used adjectively.

2. A kind of woolen.

LAMBSKINNET
Lamb"skin`net", n.

Defn: See Lansquenet.

LAMB'S-QUARTERS
Lamb's-quar"ters, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several plants of the Goosefoot family,
sometimes used as pot herbs, as Chenopodium album and Atriplex
patulsa.

LAMDOIDAL
Lam*doid"al, a.

Defn: Lambdoid. [R.]

LAME
Lame, a. [Compar. Lamer; superl. Lamest.] Etym: [OE. lame, AS. lama;
akin to D. lam, G. lahm,OHG., Dan., & Sw. lam, Icel. lami, Russ.
lomate to break, lomota rheumatism.]

1.
(a) Moving with pain or difficulty on account of injury, defect, or
temporary obstruction of a function; as, a lame leg, arm, or muscle.
(b) To some degree disabled by reason of the imperfect action of a
limb; crippled; as, a lame man. "Lame of one leg." Arbuthnot. "Lame
in both his feet." 2 Sam. ix. 13. "He fell, and became lame." 2 Sam.
iv. 4.

2. Hence, hobbling; limping; inefficient; imperfect. "A lame
endeavor." Barrow.
O, most lame and impotent conclusion! Shak.
Lame duck (stock Exchange), a person who can not fulfill his
contracts. [Cant]

LAME
Lame, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Laming.]

Defn: To make lame.
If you happen to let child fall and lame it. Swift.

LAMEL
Lam"el, n.

Defn: See Lamella.

LAMELLA
La*mel"la, n.; pl. L. Lamellæ, E. Lamellas. Etym: [L. lamella, dim.
of lamina plate, leaf, layer: cf. F. lamelle. Cf. Lamina, Omelet.]

Defn: a thin plate or scale of anything, as a thin scale growing from
the petals of certain flowers; or one of the thin plates or scales of
which certain shells are composed.

LAMELLAR; LAMELLARLY
Lam"el*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lamellaire.]

Defn: Flat and thin; lamelliform; composed of lamellæ.
 -- Lam"el*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In thin plates or scales.

LAMELLARY
Lam"el*la*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to lamella or to lamellæ; lamellar.

LAMELLATE; LAMELLATED
Lam"el*late, Lam"el*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Lamella.]

Defn: Composed of, or furnished with, thin plates or scales. See
Illust. of Antennæ.

LAMELLIBRANCH
La*mel"li*branch, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Lamellibranchia. Also used adjectively.

LAMELLIBRANCHIA; LAMELLIBRANCHIATA
La*mel`li*bran"chi*a, La*mel`li*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See
lamella, and Branchia, Branchiate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of Mollusca including all those that have bivalve
shells, as the clams, oysters, mussels, etc.

Note: They usually have two (rarely but one) flat, lamelliform gills
on each side of the body. They have an imperfectly developed head,
concealed within the shell, whence they are called Acephala. Called
also Conchifera, and Pelecypoda. See Bivalve.

LAMELLIBRANCHIATE
Lam`el*li*bran"chi*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having lamellar gills; belonging to the Lamellibranchia.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Lamellibranchia.

LAMELLICORN
La*mel"li*corn, a. Etym: [Lamella + L. cornu a horn: cf. F.
lamellicorne. See Lamella.] (Zoöl.)
(a) Having antennæ terminating in a group of flat lamellæ; -- said of
certain coleopterous insects.
(b) Terminating in a group of flat lamellæ; -- said of antennæ.
 -- n.

Defn: A lamellicorn insect.

LAMELLICORNIA
La*mel`li*cor"ni*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Lamellicorn.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of lamellicorn, plant-eating beetles; -- called also
Lamellicornes.

LAMELLIFEROUS
Lam`el*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Lamella + -ferous: cf. F. lamellifère.]

Defn: Bearing, or composed of, lamellæ, or thin layers, plates, or
scales; foliated.

LAMELLIFORM
La*mel"li*form, a. Etym: [Lamella + -form : cf. F. lamelliforme.]

Defn: Thin and flat; scalelike; lamellar.

LAMELLIROSTRAL
Lam`el*li*ros"tral, a. Etym: [Lamella + rostral : cf. F.
lamellirostre.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a lamellate bill, as ducks and geese.

LAMELLIROSTRES
La*mel`li*ros"tres, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Lamella, and Rostrum.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of birds embracing the Anseres and flamingoes, in which
the bill is lamellate.

LAMELLOSE
Lam"el*lose`, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lamelleux.]

Defn: Composed of, or having, lamellæ; lamelliform.

LAMELY
Lame"ly, adv. Etym: [See Lame.]

Defn: An a lame, crippled, disabled, or imperfect manner; as, to walk
lamely; a figure lamely drawn.

LAMENESS
Lame"ness, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of being lame; as, the lameness of an
excuse or an argument.

LAMENT
La*ment", v. i. Etym: [F. lamenter, L. lamentari, fr. lamentum a
lament.]

Defn: To express or feel sorrow; to weep or wail; to mourn.
Jeremiah lamented for Josiah. 2 Chron. xxxv. 25.
Ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice. John xvi. 20.

LAMENT
La*ment", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lamented; p. pr. & vb. n. Lamenting.]

Defn: To mourn for; to bemoan; to bewail.
One laughed at follies, one lamented crimes. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To deplore; mourn; bewail. See Deplore.

LAMENT
La*ment", n. Etym: [L. lamentum. Cf. Lament, v.]

1. Grief or sorrow expressed in complaints or cries; lamentation; a
wailing; a moaning; a weeping.
Torment, and loud lament, and furious rage. Milton.

2. An elegy or mournful ballad, or the like.

LAMENTABLE
Lam"en*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. lamentabilis : cf. F. lamentable.]

1. Mourning; sorrowful; expressing grief; as, a lamentable
countenance. "Lamentable eye." Spenser.

2. Fitted to awaken lament; to be lamented; sorrowful; pitiable; as,
a lamentable misfortune, or error. "Lamentable helplessness." Burke.

3. Miserable; pitiful; paltry; -- in a contemptuous or Bp.
Stillingfleet.
 -- Lam"en*ta*ble*ness, n.
 -- Lam"en*ta*bly, adv.

LAMENTATION
Lam`en*ta"tion, n. Etym: [F. lamentation, L. lamentatio.]

1. The act of bewailing; audible expression of sorrow; wailing;
moaning.
In Rama was there a voice heard, lamentation and weeping Matt. ii.
18.

2. pl. (Script.)

Defn: A book of the Old Testament attributed to the prophet Jeremiah,
and taking its name from the nature of its contents.

LAMENTED
La*ment"ed, a.

Defn: Mourned for; bewailed.
This humble praise,lamented shade ! receive. Pope.

LAMENTER
La*ment"er (, n.

Defn: One who laments.

LAMENTIN
La*men"tin, n.

Defn: See Lamantin.

LAMENTING
La*ment"ing, n.

Defn: Lamentation.
Lamentings heard i' the air. Shak.

LAMENTINGLY
La*ment"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lamenting manner.

LAMES
Lames, n. pl. Etym: [F. lame a thin plate, L. lamina.] (Armor)

Defn: Small steel plates combined together so as to slide one upon
the form a piece of armor.

LAMETTA
La*met"ta, n. Etym: [Cf. It. lametta, dim of lama a thin plate.]

Defn: Foil or wire made of gold, silver, or brass. De Colange.

LAMIA
La"mi*a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A monster capable of assuming a woman's form, who was said to
devour human beings or suck their blood; a vampire; a sorceress; a
with.

LAMINA
Lam"i*na, n.; pl. L. Lamella.

1. A thin plate or scale; a laying over another; -- said of thin
plates or platelike substances, as of bone or minerals.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The blade of a leaf; the broad, expanded portion of a petal or
sepal of a flower. Gray.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A thin plate or scale; specif., one of the thin, flat processes
composing the vane of a feather.

LAMINABILITY
Lam`i*na*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being laminable.

LAMINABLE
Lam"i*na*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being split into laminæ or thin plates, as mica;
capable of being extended under pressure into a thin plate or strip.
When a body can be readily extended in all directions under the
hammer, it is said to be malleable; and when into fillets under the
rolling press, it is said to be laminable. Ure.

LAMINAR; LAMINAL
Lam"i*nar, Lam"i*nal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. laminaire. See Lamina]

Defn: In, or consisting of, thin plates or layers; having the form of
a thin plate or lamina.

LAMINARIA
Lam`i*na"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Lamina.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of great seaweeds with long and broad fronds; kelp, or
devil's apron. The fronds commonly grow in clusters, and are
sometimes from thirty to fifty feet in length. See Illust. of Kelp.

LAMINARIAN
Lam`i*na"ri*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to seaweeds of the genus Laminaria, or to that zone
of the sea (from two to ten fathoms in depth) where the seaweeds of
this genus grow.

LAMINARITE
Lam"i*na*rite, n. Etym: [See Lamina.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A broad-leafed fossil alga.

LAMINARY
Lam"i*na*ry, a.

Defn: Laminar.

LAMINATE
Lam"i*nate, a. Etym: [See Lamina.]

Defn: Consisting of, or covered with, laminæ, or thin plates, scales,
or layers, one over another; laminated.

LAMINATE
Lam"i*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Laminated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Laminating.] Etym: [See Lamina.]

1. To cause to separate into thin plates or layers; to divide into
thin plates.

2. To form, as metal, into a thin plate, as by rolling.

LAMINATE
Lam"i*nate, v. i.

Defn: To separate into laminæ.

LAMINATED
Lam"i*na`ted, a.

Defn: Laminate. Laminated arch (Arch.), a timber arch made of layers
of bent planks secured by treenails.

LAMINATING
Lam"i*na`ting, a.

Defn: Forming, or separating into, scales or thin layers.

LAMINATION
Lam`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: The process of laminating, or the state of being laminated.

LAMINIFEROUS
Lam`i*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Lamina + -ferous.]

Defn: Having a structure consisting of laminæ, or thin layers.

LAMINIPLANTAR
Lam`i*ni*plan"tar, a. Etym: [Lamina + L. planta sole of the foot.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the tarsus covered behind with a horny sheath continuous
on both sides, as in most singing birds, except the larks.

LAMINITIS
Lam`i*ni"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Lamina, and -itis.] (Far.)

Defn: Inflammation of the laminæ or fleshy plates along the coffin
bone of a horse; founder. Youatt.

LAMISH
Lam"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat lame. Wood.

LAMM
Lamm, v. t.

Defn: See Lam.

LAMMAS
Lam"mas, n. Etym: [AS. hlammesse, hlafmæsse, loaf mass, bread feast,
or feast of first fruits; hlaf loaf + mæsse mass. See Loaf, and Mass
religious service.]

Defn: The first day of August; -- called also Lammas day, and
Lammastide.

LAMMERGEIR; LAMMERGEIER
Lam"mer*geir, Lam"mer*gei`er, n. Etym: [G. lämmergeier; lamm, pl.
lämmer, lamb + geier vulture.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very large vulture (Gypaëtus barbatus), which inhabits the
mountains of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa. When full-
grown it is nine or ten feet in extent of wings. It is brownish black
above, with the under parts and neck rusty yellow; the forehead and
crown white; the sides of the head and beard black. It feeds partly
on carrion and partly on small animals, which it kills. It has the
habit of carrying tortoises and marrow bones to a great height, and
dropping them on stones to obtain the contents, and is therefore
called bonebreaker and ossifrage. It is supposed to be the ossifrage
of the Bible. Called also bearded vulture and bearded eagle. [Written
also lammergeyer.]

LAMNUNGUIA
Lam*nun"gui*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. lamina a scale + unguis a
nail.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Hyracoidea.

LAMP
Lamp, n.Etym: [OE. (with excrescent p), fr. F. lame, L. lamina. See
Lamina.]

Defn: A thin plate or lamina. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAMP
Lamp, n. Etym: [F. lampe, L. lampas, -adis, fr. Gr. Lampad, Lantern.]

1. A light-producing vessel, instrument or apparatus; especially, a
vessel with a wick used for the combustion of oil or other
inflammable liquid, for the purpose of producing artificial light.

2. Figuratively, anything which enlightens intellectually or morally;
anything regarded metaphorically a performing the uses of a lamp.
Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path. Ps. cxix.
105.
Ages elapsed ere Homer's lamp appeared. Cowper.

3. (Elec.)

Defn: A device or mechanism for producing light by electricity. See
Incandescent lamp, under Incandescent. Æolipile lamp, a hollow ball
of copper containing alcohol which is converted into vapor by a lamp
beneath, so as to make a powerful blowpipe flame when the vapor is
ignited. Weale.
 -- Arc lamp (Elec.), a form of lamp in which the voltaic arc is used
as the source of light.
 -- Dëbereiner's lamp, an apparatus for the instantaneous production
of a flame by the spontaneous ignition of a jet of hydrogen on being
led over platinum sponge; -- named after the German chemist
Döbereiner, who invented it. Called also philosopher's lamp.
 -- Flameless lamp, an aphlogistic lamp.
 -- Lamp burner, the part of a lamp where the wick is exposed and
ignited. Knight.
 -- Lamp fount, a reservoir for oil, in a lamp.
 -- Lamp jack. See 2d Jack, n., 4 (l) & (n).
 -- Lamp shade, a screen, as of paper, glass, or tin, for softening
or obstructing the light of a lamp.
 -- Lamp shell (Zoöl.), any brachiopod shell of the genus Terebratula
and allied genera. The name refers to the shape, which is like that
of an antique lamp. See Terebratula.
 -- Safety lamp, a miner's lamp in which the flame is surrounded by
fine wire gauze, preventing the kindling of dangerous explosive
gases; -- called also, from Sir Humphry Davy the inventor, Davy lamp.
 -- To smell of the lamp, to bear marks of great study and labor, as
a literary composition.

LAMPAD
Lam"pad, n. Etym: [Gr. Lamp.]

Defn: A lamp or candlestick. [R.]
By him who 'mid the golden lampads went. Trench.

LAMPADIST
Lam"pa*dist, n. Etym: [Gr. Lamp.] (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: One who gained the prize in the lampadrome.

LAMPADROME
Lam"pa*drome, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A race run by young men with lighted torches in their hands. He
who reached the goal first, with his torch unextinguished, gained the
prize.

LAMPAS
Lam"pas, n. Etym: [F. lampas.]

Defn: An inflammation and swelling of the soft parts of the roof of
the mouth immediately behind the fore teeth in the horse; -- called
also lampers.

LAMPATE
Lam"pate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lampate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed salt of lampic acid. [Obs.]

LAMPBLACK
Lamp"black`, n. Etym: [Lamp + black.]

Defn: The fine impalpable soot obtained from the smoke of
carbonaceous substances which have been only partly burnt, as in the
flame of a smoking lamp. It consists of finely divided carbon, with
sometimes a very small proportion of various impurities. It is used
as an ingredient of printers' ink, and various black pigments and
cements.

LAMPER EEL
Lam"per eel`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lamprey.

LAMPERN
Lam"pern, n. Etym: [See Lamprey.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The river lamprey (Ammocoetes, or Lampetra, fluviatilis).

Note: The name is also applied to other river lampreys.

LAMPERS
Lam"pers, n.

Defn: See Lampas.

LAMPIC
Lam"pic, a. Etym: [F. lampique, fr. lampe lamp. See Lamp.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or produced by, a lamp; -- formerly said of a
supposed acid.

LAMPING
Lamp"ing, a.

Defn: Shining; brilliant. [Obs.] "Lamping eyes." Spenser.

LAMPLESS
Lamp"less, a.

Defn: Being without a lamp, or without light; hence, being without
appreciation; dull.
Your ladies' eyes are lampless to that virtue. Beau. & Fl.

LAMPLIGHT
Lamp"light`, n.

Defn: Light from a lamp.
This world's artificial lamplights. Owen Meredith.

LAMPLIGHTER
Lamp"light`er, n.

1. One who, or that which, lights a lamp; esp., a person who lights
street lamps.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The calico bass.

LAMPOON
Lam*poon", n. Etym: [F. lampon a drinking song, fr. lampons let us
drink, -- the burden of such a song, fr. lamper to guzzle, to drink
much and greedily; of German origin, and akin to E. lap to drink.
Prob. so called because drinking songs often contain personal slander
or satire.]

Defn: A personal satire in writing; usually, malicious and abusive
censure written only to reproach and distress.
Like her who missed her name in a lampoon, And grieved to find
herself decayed so soon. Dryden.

LAMPOON
Lam*poon", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lampooned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lampooning.]

Defn: To subject to abusive ridicule expressed in writing; to make
the subject of a lampoon.
Ribald poets had lampooned him. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To libel; defame; satirize; lash.

LAMPOONER
Lam*poon"er, n.

Defn: The writer of a lampoon. "Libelers, lampooners, and
pamphleteers." Tatler.

LAMPOONRY
Lam*poon"ry, n.

Defn: The act of lampooning; a lampoon, or lampoons.

LAMP-POST
Lamp"-post`, n.

Defn: A post (generally a pillar of iron) supporting a lamp or
lantern for lighting a street, park, etc.

LAMPREL
Lam"prel, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lamprey.

LAMPREY
Lam"prey, n. ; pl. Lampreys. Etym: [OE. lampreie, F. lamproie, LL.
lampreda, lampetra, from L. lambere to lick + petra rock, stone. The
lampreys are so called because they attach themselves with their
circular mouths to rocks and stones, whence they are also called
rocksuckers. See Lap to drink, Petrify.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An eel-like marsipobranch of the genus Petromyzon, and allied
genera. The lampreys have a round, sucking mouth, without jaws, but
set with numerous minute teeth, and one to three larger teeth on the
palate (see Illust. of Cyclostomi). There are seven small branchial
openings on each side. [Written also lamper eel, lamprel, and
lampron.]

Note: The common or sea lamprey of America and Europe (Petromyzon
marinus), which in spring ascends rivers to spawn, is considered
excellent food by many, and is sold as a market fish in some
localities. The smaller river lampreys mostly belong to the genus
Ammocoeles, or Lampetra, as A. fluviatilis, of Europe, and A.
æpypterus of America. All lampreys attach themselves to other fishes,
as parasites, by means of the suckerlike mouth.

LAMPRON
Lam"pron, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. lampreon. See Lamprey.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lamprey.

LAMPYRINE
Lam*py"rine, n. Etym: [See Lampyris.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect of the genus Lampyris, or family Lampyridæ. See
Lampyris.

LAMPYRIS
Lam*py"ris, n. Etym: [L., glowworm, Gr. ( (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of coleopterous insects, including the glowworms.

LANARKITE
Lan"ark*ite, n. Etym: [From Lanarkshire, a county in Scotland.]
(Min.)

Defn: A mineral consisting of sulphate of lead, occurring either
massive or in long slender prisms, of a greenish white or gray color.

LANARY
La"na*ry, n. Etym: [L. lanaria, fr. lanarius belonging to wool, lana
wool.]

Defn: A place for storing wool.

LANATE; LANATED
La"nate, La"na*ted,Etym: [L. lanatus, fr. lana wool, down.]

Defn: Wooly; covered with fine long hair, or hairlike filaments.

LANCASHIRE BOILER
La"ca*shire boil"er

Defn: . A steam boiler having two flues which contain the furnaces
and extend through the boiler from end to end.

LANCASTERIAN
Lan`cas*te"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the monitorial system of instruction
followed by Joseph Lancaster, of England, in which advanced pupils in
a school teach pupils below them.

LANCE
Lance, n. Etym: [OE. lance, F. lance, fr. L. lancea; cf. Gr. Launch.]

1. A weapon of war, consisting of a long shaft or handle and a steel
blade or head; a spear carried by horsemen, and often decorated with
a small flag; also, a spear or harpoon used by whalers and fishermen.
A braver soldier never couched lance. Shak.

2. A soldier armed with a lance; a lancer.

3. (Founding)

Defn: A small iron rod which suspends the core of the mold in casting
a shell.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: An instrument which conveys the charge of a piece of ordnance
and forces it home.

5. (Pyrotech.)

Defn: One of the small paper cases filled with combustible
composition, which mark the outlines of a figure. Free lance, in the
Middle Ages, and subsequently, a knight or roving soldier, who was
free to engage for any state or commander that purchased his
services; hence, a person who assails institutions or opinions on his
own responsibility without regard to party lines or deference to
authority.
 -- Lance bucket (Cavalry), a socket attached to a saddle or stirrup
strap, in which to rest the but of a lance.
 -- Lance corporal, same as Lancepesade.
 -- Lance knight, a lansquenet. B. Jonson.
 -- Lance snake (Zoöl.), the fer-de-lance.
 -- Stink-fire lance (Mil.), a kind of fuse filled with a composition
which burns with a suffocating odor; -- used in the counter
operations of miners. To break a lance, to engage in a tilt or
contest.

LANCE
Lance, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lanced (; p. pr. & vb. n. Lancing.]

1. To pierce with a lance, or with any similar weapon.
Seized the due victim, and with fury lanced Her back. Dryden.

2. To open with a lancet; to pierce; as, to lance a vein or an
abscess.

3. To throw in the manner of a lance. See Lanch.

LANCE FISH
Lance" fish`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A slender marine fish of the genus Ammodytes, especially
Ammodytes tobianus of the English coast; -- called also sand lance.

LANCEGAY; LANCEGAYE
Lance"gay`, Lance"gaye`, n. Etym: [OF. lancegaie, corrupted from the
same source as E. assagai, under the influence of F. lance lance. See
Assagai.]

Defn: A kind of spear anciently used. Its use was prohibited by a
statute of Richard II. Nares.
In his hand a launcegay, A long sword by his side. Chaucer.

LANCELET
Lance"let, n. Etym: [Lance + -let.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fishlike animal (Amphioxus lanceolatus), remarkable for
the rudimentary condition of its organs. It is the type of the class
Leptocardia. See Amphioxus, Leptocardia.

LANCELY
Lance"ly, a.

Defn: Like a lance. [R.] Sir P. Sidney.

LANCEOLAR
Lan"ce*o*lar, a. Etym: [L. lanceola a little lance, dim. of lancea
lance: cf. F. lancéolaire.] (Bot.)

Defn: Lanceolate.

LANCEOLATE; LANCEOLATED
Lan"ce*o*late, Lan"ce*o*la`ted a. Etym: [L. lanceolatus: cf. F.
lancéol. See Lanceolar.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Rather narrow, tapering to a point at the apex, and sometimes
at the base also; as, a lanceolate leaf.

LANCEPESADE
Lance`pe*sade", n. Etym: [F. lancepessade, lanspessade, anspessade,
It. lancia spezzata a broken lance or demilance, a demilance roan, a
light horseman, bodyguard.]

Defn: An assistant to a corporal; a private performing the duties of
a corporal; -- called also lance corporal.

LANCER
Lan"cer, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lancier.]

1. One who lances; one who carries a lance; especially, a member of a
mounted body of men armed with lances, attached to the cavalry
service of some nations. Wilhelm.

2. A lancet. [Obs.]

3. pl. (Dancing)

Defn: A set of quadrilles of a certain arrangement. [Written also
lanciers.]

LANCET
Lan"cet, n. Etym: [F. lancette, dim. of lance lance. See Lance.]

1. A surgical instrument of various forms, commonly sharp-pointed and
two-edged, used in venesection, and in opening abscesses, etc.

2. (Metal.)

Defn: An iron bar used for tapping a melting furnace. Knight. Lancet
arch (Arch.), a pointed arch, of which the width, or span, is narrow
compared with the height.
 -- Lancet architecture, a name given to a style of architecture, in
which lancet arches are common; -- peculiar to England and 13th
century.
 -- Lancet fish. (Zoöl.) (a) A large, voracious, deep-sea fish
(Alepidosaurus ferox), having long, sharp, lancetlike teeth. (b) The
doctor, or surgeon fish.

LANCEWOOD
Lance"wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A tough, elastic wood, often used for the shafts of gigs,
archery bows, fishing rods, and the like. Also, the tree which
produces this wood, Duguetia Quitarensis (a native of Guiana and
Cuba), and several other trees of the same family (Anonaseæ).
Australian lancewood, a myrtaceous tree (Backhousia Australis).

LANCH
Lanch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lanched; p. pr. & vb. n. Lanching. See
Lanching. See Launch, Lance.]

Defn: To throw, as a lance; to let fly; to launch.
See Whose arm can lanch the surer bolt. Dryden & Lee.

LANCIFEROUS
Lan*cif"er*ous, a Etym: [Lance + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing a lance.

LANCIFORM
Lan"ci*form, a Etym: [Lance + -form: cf. F. lanciforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a lance.

LANCINATE
Lan"ci*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lancinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lancinating.] Etym: [L. lancinatus, p. p. of lancinare to fear.]

Defn: To tear; to lacerate; to pierce or stab. De Quincey.

LANCINATING
Lan"ci*na`ting, a.

Defn: Piercing; seeming to pierce or stab; as, lancinating pains
(i.e., severe, darting pains).

LANCINATION
Lan`ci*na"tion, n.

Defn: A tearing; laceration. "Lancinations of the spirit." Jer.
Taylor.

LAND
Land, n.

Defn: Urine. See Lant. [Obs.]

LAND
Land, n. Etym: [AS. land, lond; akin to D., G., Icel., Sw., Dan., and
Goth. land. ]

1. The solid part of the surface of the earth; -- opposed to water as
constituting a part of such surface, especially to oceans and seas;
as, to sight land after a long voyage.
They turn their heads to sea, their sterns to land. Dryden.

2. Any portion, large or small, of the surface of the earth,
considered by itself, or as belonging to an individual or a people,
as a country, estate, farm, or tract.
Go view the land, even Jericho. Josh. ii. 1.
Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth
accumulates and men decay. Goldsmith.

Note: In the expressions "to be, or dwell, upon land," "to go, or
fare, on land," as used by Chaucer, land denotes the country as
distinguished from the town.
A poor parson dwelling upon land [i.e., in the country]. Chaucer.

3. Ground, in respect to its nature or quality; soil; as, wet land;
good or bad land.

4. The inhabitants of a nation or people.
These answers, in the silent night received, The kind himself
divulged, the land believed. Dryden.

5. The mainland, in distinction from islands.

6. The ground or floor. [Obs.]
Herself upon the land she did prostrate. Spenser.

7. (Agric.)

Defn: The ground left unplowed between furrows; any one of several
portions into which a field is divided for convenience in plowing.

8. (Law)

Defn: Any ground, soil, or earth whatsoever, as meadows, pastures,
woods, etc., and everything annexed to it, whether by nature, as
trees, water, etc., or by the hand of man, as buildings, fences,
etc.; real estate. Kent. Bouvier. Burrill.

9. (Naut.)

Defn: The lap of the strakes in a clinker-built boat; the lap of
plates in an iron vessel; -- called also landing. Knight.

10. In any surface prepared with indentations, perforations, or
grooves, that part of the surface which is not so treated, as the
level part of a millstone between the furrows, or the surface of the
bore of a rifled gun between the grooves. Land agent, a person
employed to sell or let land, to collect rents, and to attend to
other money matters connected with land.
 -- Land boat, a vehicle on wheels propelled by sails.
 -- Land blink, a peculiar atmospheric brightness seen from sea over
distant snow-covered land in arctic regions. See Ice blink.
 -- Land breeze. See under Breeze.
 -- Land chain. See Gunter's chain.
 -- Land crab (Zoöl.), any one of various species of crabs which live
much on the land, and resort to the water chiefly for the purpose of
breeding. They are abundant in the West Indies and South America.
Some of them grow to a large size.
 -- Land fish a fish on land; a person quite out of place.Shak.
 -- Land force, a military force serving on land, as distinguished
from a naval force.
 -- Land, ho! (Naut.), a sailor's cry in announcing sight of land.
 -- Land ice, a field of ice adhering to the coast, in distinction
from a floe.
 -- Land leech (Zoöl.), any one of several species of blood-sucking
leeches, which, in moist, tropical regions, live on land, and are
often troublesome to man and beast.
 -- Land measure, the system of measurement used in determining the
area of land; also, a table of areas used in such measurement.
 -- Land, or House, of bondage, in Bible history, Egypt; by
extension, a place or condition of special oppression.
 -- Land o' cakes, Scotland.
 -- Land of Nod, sleep.
 -- Land of promise, in Bible history, Canaan: by extension, a better
country or condition of which one has expectation.
 -- Land of steady habits, a nickname sometimes given to the State of
Connecticut.
 -- Land office, a government office in which the entries upon, and
sales of, public land are registered, and other business respecting
the public lands is transacted. [U.S.] -- Land pike. (Zoöl.) (a) The
gray pike, or sauger. (b) The Menobranchus.
 -- Land service, military service as distinguished from naval
service.
 -- Land rail. (Zoöl) (a) The crake or corncrake of Europe. See
Crake. (b) An Australian rail (Hypotænidia Phillipensis); -- called
also pectoral rail.
 -- Land scrip, a certificate that the purchase money for a certain
portion of the public land has been paid to the officer entitled to
receive it. [U.S.] -- Land shark, a swindler of sailors on shore.
[Sailors' Cant] -- Land side (a) That side of anything in or on the
sea, as of an island or ship, which is turned toward the land. (b)
The side of a plow which is opposite to the moldboard and which
presses against the unplowed land.
 -- Land snail (Zoöl.), any snail which lives on land, as
distinguished from the aquatic snails are Pulmonifera, and belong to
the Geophila; but the operculated land snails of warm countries are
Dioecia, and belong to the Tænioglossa. See Geophila, and Helix.
 -- Land spout, a descent of cloud and water in a conical form during
the occurrence of a tornado and heavy rainfall on land.
 -- Land steward, a person who acts for another in the management of
land, collection of rents, etc.
 -- Land tortoise, Land turtle (Zoöl.), any tortoise that habitually
lives on dry land, as the box tortoise. See Tortoise.
 -- Land warrant, a certificate from the Land Office, authorizing a
person to assume ownership of a public land. [U.S.] -- Land wind.
Same as Land breeze (above).
 -- To make land (Naut.), to sight land. To set the land, to see by
the compass how the land bears from the ship.
 -- To shut in the land, to hide the land, as when fog, or an
intervening island, obstructs the view.

LAND
Land, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Landed; p. pr. & vb. n. Landing.]

1. To set or put on shore from a ship or other water craft; to
disembark; to debark.
I 'll undertake top land them on our coast. Shak.

2. To catch and bring to shore; to capture; as, to land a fish.

3. To set down after conveying; to cause to fall, alight, or reach;
to bring to the end of a course; as, he landed the quoit near the
stake; to be thrown from a horse and landed in the mud; to land one
in difficulties or mistakes.

LAND
Land, v. i.

Defn: To go on shore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to come to
the end of a course.

LANDAMMAN
Lan"dam*man, n. Etym: [G. Landamman; land land, country + amimann
bailiff. See Land, and Ambassador.]

1. A chief magistrate in some of the Swiss cantons.

2. The president of the diet of the Helvetic republic.

LANDAU
Lan"dau, n. Etym: [From the town Ladau in Germany; cf. F. landau. See
Land, Island.]

Defn: A four-wheeled covered vehicle, the top of which is divided
into two sections which can be let down, or thrown back, in such a
manner as to make an open carriage. [Written also landaw.]

LANDAULET
Lan`dau*let", n. Etym: [Cf. F. landaulet, dim, of landau. See
Landau.]

Defn: A small landau.

LANDDROST; LANDTROST
Land"drost`, n.; pl. -drosten  (#). Sometimes incorrectly Landtrost.
[D., fr. land land + drost a kind of official; akin to G. truchsess.]
In Cape Colony:
 (a) A chief magistrate in rural districts. He was replaced in 1827
by "resident magistrates."
 (b) The president of the Heemraad.

LANDED
Land"ed, a.

1. Having an estate in land.
The House of Commons must consist, for the most part, of landed men.
Addison.

2. Consisting in real estate or land; as, landed property; landed
security.

LANDER
Land"er, n.

1. One who lands, or makes a landing. "The lander in a lonely isle."
Tennyson.

2. (Mining)

Defn: A person who waits at the mouth of the shaft to receive the
kibble of ore.

LANDFALL
Land"fall, n.

1. A sudden transference of property in land by the death of its
owner.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Sighting or making land when at sea. A good landfall (Naut.),
the sighting of land in conformity with the navigator's reckoning and
expectation.

LANDFLOOD
Land"flood`, n.

Defn: An overflowing of land by river; an inundation; a freshet.
Clarendon.

LANDGRAVE
Land"grave`, n. Etym: [G. landgraf; land land + graf earl, count; cf.
D. landgraaf, F. landgrave.]

Defn: A German nobleman of a rank corresponding to that of an earl in
England and of a count in France.

Note: The title was first adopted by some German counts in the
twelfth century, to distinguish themselves from the inferior counts
under their jurisdiction. Three of them were princes of the empire.

LANDGRAVIATE
Land*gra"vi*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. landgraviat.]

1. The territory held by a landgrave.

2. The office, jurisdiction, or authority of a landgrave.

LANDGRAVINE
Land"gra*vine, n. Etym: [G. landgräfin; cf. D. landgravin.]

Defn: The wife of a landgrave.

LANDHOLDER
Land"hold`er, n.

Defn: A holder, owner, or proprietor of land.
 -- Land"hold`ing, n. & a.

LANDING
Land"ing, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to or used for, setting, bringing, or going, on
shore. Landing charges, charges or fees paid on goods unloaded from a
vessel.
 -- Landing net, a small, bag-shaped net, used in fishing to take the
fish from the water after being hooked.
 -- Landing stage, a floating platform attached at one end to a wharf
in such a manner as to rise and fall with the tide, and thus
facilitate passage between the wharf and a vessel lying beside the
stage.
 -- Landing waiter, a customhouse officer who oversees the landing of
goods, etc., from vessels; a landwaiter.

LANDING
Land"ing, n.

1. A going or bringing on shore.

2. A place for landing, as from a ship, a carriage. etc.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: The level part of a staircase, at the top of a flight of
stairs, or connecting one flight with another. Landing place. me as
Landing, n., 2 and 3.

LANDLADY
Land"la`dy, n.; pl. Landladies. Etym: [Cf. Landlord.]

1. A woman having real estate which she leases to a tenant or
tenants.

2. The mistress of an inn or lodging house.

LAND LEAGUE
Land League.

Defn: In Ireland, a combination of tenant farmers and other,
organized, with Charles Stewart Parnell as president, in 1879 with a
view to the reduction of farm rents and a reconstruction of the land
laws. -- Land"*lea`guer (#), n. -- Land"*lea`guism (#), n.

The Land League, of which Machael Davitt was the founder, originated
in Mayo in August, and at a Dublin in October the organization was
extended to all Ireland, with Parnell as president.
Encyc. Brit.

LANDLEAPER
Land"leap`er, n.

Defn: See Landlouper.

LANDLESS
Land"less, a.

Defn: Having no property in land.

LANDLOCK
Land"lock`, v. t.

Defn: To inclose, or nearly inclose, as a harbor or a vessel, with
land.

LANDLOCKED
Land"locked`, a.

1. Inclosed, or nearly inclosed, by land.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Confined to a fresh-water lake by reason of waterfalls or dams;
-- said of fishes that would naturally seek the sea, after spawning;
as, the landlocked salmon.

LANDLOPER
Land"lo`per, n.

Defn: Same as Landlouper.

LANDLORD
Land"lord`, n. Etym: [See Land, and Lord.]

1. The lord of a manor, or of land; the owner of land or houses which
he leases to a tenant or tenants.

2. The master of an inn or of a lodging house.
Upon our arrival at the inn, my companion fetched out the jolly
landlord. Addison.

LANDLORDISM
Land"lord`ism, n.

Defn: The state of being a landlord; the characteristics of a
landlord; specifically, in Great Britain, the relation of landlords
to tenants, especially as regards leased agricultural lands. J. S.
Mill.

LANDLORDRY
Land"lord`ry, n.

Defn: The state of a landlord. [Obs.]

LANDLOUPER
Land"loup`er, n. Etym: [D. landlooper, lit., landrunner; land land +
loopen to run. See Land, and Leap.]

Defn: A vagabond; a vagrant. [Written also landleaper and landloper.]
"Bands of landloupers." Moltey.

LANDLOUPING
Land"loup`ing, a.

Defn: Vagrant; wandering about.

LANDLUBBER
Land"lub`ber, n. Etym: [Prop. fr. land + lubber, or possibly
corrupted fr. laudlouper.] (Naut.)

Defn: One who passes his life on land; -- so called among seamen in
contempt or ridicule.

LANDMAN
Land"man, n.; pl. Landmen (.

1. A man who lives or serves on land; -- opposed to seaman.

2. (Eng.)

Defn: An occupier of land. Cowell.

LANDMARK
Land"mark`, n. Etym: [AS. landmearc. See Land, and Mark a sign.]

1. A mark to designate the boundary of land; any , mark or fixed
object (as a marked tree, a stone, a ditch, or a heap of stones) by
which the limits of a farm, a town, or other portion of territory may
be known and preserved.

2. Any conspicuous object on land that serves as a guide; some
prominent object, as a hill or steeple. Landmarks of history,
important events by which eras or conditions are determined.

LAND OF STEADY HABITS
Land of Steady Habits.

Defn: Connecticut; -- a nickname alluding to the moral character of
its inhabitants, implied by the rigid laws (see Blue laws) of the
early period.

LANDOWNER
Land"own`er, n.

Defn: An owner of land.

LANDOWNING
Land"own`ing, n.

Defn: The owning of land.
 -- a.

Defn: Having property in land; of or pertaining to landowners.

LAND-POOR
Land"-poor`, a.

Defn: Pecuniarily embarrassed through owning much unprofitable land.
[Colloq.]

LANDREEVE
Land"reeve`, n. Etym: [Land + reeve an officer.]

Defn: A subordinate officer on an extensive estate, who acts as an
assistant to the steward.

LANDSCAPE
Land"scape, n. [Formerly written also landskip.] Etym: [D. landschap;
land land + -schap, equiv. to E. -schip; akin to G. landschaft, Sw.
landskap, Dan. landskab. See Land, and -schip.]

1. A portion of land or territory which the eye can comprehend in a
single view, including all the objects it contains.

2. A picture representing a scene by land or sea, actual or fancied,
the chief subject being the general aspect of nature, as fields,
hills, forests, water. etc.

3. The pictorial aspect of a country.
The landscape of his native country had taken hold on his heart.
Macaulay.
Landscape gardening, The art of laying out grounds and arranging
trees, shrubbery, etc., in such a manner as to produce a picturesque
effect.

LANDSCAPIST
Land"scap`ist, n.

Defn: A painter of landscapes.

LANDSKIP
Land"skip, n. Etym: [See Landscape.]

Defn: A landscape. [Obs. except in poetry.]
Straight my eye hath caught new pleasures, Whilst the landskip round
it measures. Milton.

LANDSLIP; LANDSLIDE
Land"slip`, Land"slide`, n.

1. The slipping down of a mass of land from a mountain, hill, etc.

2. The land which slips down.

LANDSMAN
Lands"man, n.; pl. Landsmen.

1. One who lives on the land; -- opposed to seaman.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A sailor on his first voyage.

LANDSTHING
Lands"thing`, n. [Dan. landsthing, landsting, fr. land land + thing,
ting, parliament. See Land; Thing.] (Denmark.)

Defn: See Legislature, below.

LANDSTORM
Land"storm`, n. [Sw.]

Defn: See Varnpligtige.

LANDSTREIGHT
Land"streight`, n. Etym: [See Strait.]

Defn: A narrow strip of land. [Obs.]

LANDSTURM
Land"sturm`, n. Etym: [G. See Land, and Storm.]

Defn: That part of the reserve force in Germany which is called out
last.

LANDTAG
Land"tag`, n. Etym: [G. See Land, and Day.]

Defn: The diet or legislative body; as, the Landtag of Prussia.

LANDWAITER
Land"wait`er, n.

Defn: See Landing waiter, under Landing, a.

LANDWARD
Land"ward, adv. & a.

Defn: Toward the land.

LANDWEHR
Land"wehr`, n. Etym: [G., fr. land land, country + wehr defense.]

Defn: That part of the army, in Germany and Austria, which has
completed the usual military service and is exempt from duty in time
of peace, except that it is called out occasionally for drill.

LANE
Lane, a. Etym: [See Lone.]

Defn: Alone [Scot.] His lane, by himself; himself alone.

LANE
Lane, n. Etym: [OE. lane, lone, AS. lone, lone; akin to D. laan,
OFries. lana, lona.]

Defn: A passageway between fences or hedges which is not traveled as
a highroad; an alley between buildings; a narrow way among trees,
ras, a lane between lines of men, or through a field of ice.
It is become a turn-again lane unto them which they can not go
through. Tyndale.

LANG
Lang, a. & adv.

Defn: Long. [Obs. or Scot.]

LANGAHA
Lan"ga*ha, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A curious colubriform snake of the genus Xyphorhynchus, from
Madagascar. It is brownish red, and its hose is prolonged in the form
of a sharp blade.

LANGAREY
Lan`ga*rey", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of numerous species of long-winged, shrikelike birds of
Australia and the East Indies, of the genus Artamus, and allied
genera; called also wood swallow.

LANGATE
Lan"gate, n. (Surg.)

Defn: A linen roller used in dressing wounds.

LANGDAK
Lang"dak`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wolf (Canis pallipes), found in India, allied to the jackal.

LANGRAGE; LANGREL
Lan"grage, Lan"grel, n.

Defn: A kind of shot formerly used at sea for tearing sails and
rigging. It consisted of bolts, nails, and other pieces of iron
fastened together or inclosed in a canister.

LANGRET
Lan"gret, n.

Defn: A kind of loaded die. [Obs.]

LANGRIDGE
Lan"gridge, n.

Defn: See Langrage.

Note: [Sometimes compounded with shot.]

LANGSYNE
Lang`syne", adv. & n. Etym: [Scot. lang long + syne since.]

Defn: Long since; long ago. [Scot.]

LANGTERALOO
Lang`ter*a*loo", n. Etym: [See Loo.]

Defn: An old game at cards. See Loo (a) Tatler.

LANGUAGE
Lan"guage, n. Etym: [OE. langage, F. langage, fr. L. lingua the
tongue, hence speech, language; akin to E. tongue. See Tongue, cf.
Lingual.]

1. Any means of conveying or communicating ideas; specifically, human
speech; the expression of ideas by the voice; sounds, expressive of
thought, articulated by the organs of the throat and mouth.

Note: Language consists in the oral utterance of sounds which usage
has made the representatives of ideas. When two or more persons
customarily annex the same sounds to the same ideas, the expression
of these sounds by one person communicates his ideas to another. This
is the primary sense of language, the use of which is to communicate
the thoughts of one person to another through the organs of hearing.
Articulate sounds are represented to the eye by letters, marks, or
characters, which form words.

2. The expression of ideas by writing, or any other instrumentality.

3. The forms of speech, or the methods of expressing ideas, peculiar
to a particular nation.

4. The characteristic mode of arranging words, peculiar to an
individual speaker or writer; manner of expression; style.
Others for language all their care express. Pope.

5. The inarticulate sounds by which animals inferior to man express
their feelings or their wants.

6. The suggestion, by objects, actions, or conditions, of ideas
associated therewith; as, the language of flowers.
There was . . . language in their very gesture. Shak.

7. The vocabulary and phraseology belonging to an art or department
of knowledge; as, medical language; the language of chemistry or
theology.

8. A race, as distinguished by its speech. [R.]
All the people, the nations, and the languages, fell down and
worshiped the golden image. Dan. iii. 7.
Language master, a teacher of languages.[Obs.]

Syn.
 -- Speech; tongue; idiom; dialect; phraseology; diction; discourse;
conversation; talk.
 -- Language, Speech, Tongue, Idiom, Dialect. Language is generic,
denoting, in its most extended use, any mode of conveying ideas;
speech is the language of articulate sounds; tongue is the Anglo-
Saxon tern for language, esp. for spoken language; as, the English
tongue. Idiom denotes the forms of construction peculiar to a
particular language; dialects are varieties if expression which
spring up in different parts of a country among people speaking
substantially the same language.

LANGUAGE
Lan"guage, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Languaged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Languaging.]

Defn: To communicate by language; to express in language.
Others were languaged in such doubtful expressions that they have a
double sense. Fuller.

LANGUAGED
Lan"guaged, a.

Defn: Having a language; skilled in language; -- chiefly used in
composition. " Manylanguaged nations." Pope.

LANGUAGELESS
Lan"guage*less, a.

Defn: Lacking or wanting language; speechless; silent. Shak.

LANGUED
Langued, a. Etym: [F. langue tongue. See Language.] (Her.)

Defn: Tongued; having the tongue visible.
Lions . . . represented as armed and langued gules. Cussans.

LANGUE D'OC
Langue` d'oc". Etym: [F., language of oc yes.]

Defn: The dialect, closely akin to French, formerly spoken south of
the Loire (in which the word for "yes" was oc); Provencal.

LANGUE D'OIL
Langue` d'oïl". Etym: [F., language of oïl yes.]

Defn: The dialect formerly spoken north of the Loire (in which the
word for "yes" was oïl, F. oui).

LANGUENTE
Lan*guen"te, adv. Etym: [It., p. pr. of languire. See Languish.]
(Mus.)

Defn: In a languishing manner; pathetically.

LANGUET
Lan"guet, n. Etym: [F. languette, dim. of langue tongue, L. lingua.]

1. Anything resembling the tongue in form or office; specif., the
slip of metal in an organ pipe which turns the current of air toward
its mouth.

2. That part of the hilt, in certain kinds of swords, which overlaps
the scabbard.

LANGUID
Lan"guid, a. Etym: [L. languidus, fr. languere to be faint or
languid: cf. F. languide. See Languish.]

1. Drooping or flagging from exhaustion; indisposed to exertion;
without animation; weak; weary; heavy; dull. " Languid, powerless
limbs. " Armstrong.
Fire their languid souls with Cato's virtue. Addison.

2. Slow in progress; tardy. " No motion so swift or languid."
Bentley.

3. Promoting or indicating weakness or heaviness; as, a languid day.
Feebly she laugheth in the languid moon. Keats.
Their idleness, aimless and languid airs. W. Black.

Syn.
 -- Feeble; weak; faint; sickly; pining; exhausted; weary; listless;
heavy; dull; heartless.
 -- Lan"guid*ly, adv.
 -- Lan"guid*ness, n.

LANGUISH
Lan"guish, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Languished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Languishing.] Etym: [OE. languishen, languissen, F. languir, L.
languere; cf. Gr. lakra to lag behind; prob. akin to E. lag, lax, and
perh. to E. slack.See -ish.]

1. To become languid or weak; to lose strength or animation; to be or
become dull, feeble or spiritless; to pine away; to wither or fade.
We . . . do languish of such diseases. 2 Esdras viii. 31.
Cease, fond nature, cease thy strife, And let me landguish into life.
Pope.
For the fields of Heshbon languish. Is. xvi. 8.

2. To assume an expression of weariness or tender grief, appealing
for sympathy. Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- To pine; wither; fade; droop; faint.

LANGUISH
Lan"guish, v. i.

Defn: To cause to dr [Obs.] Shak. Dryden.

LANGUISH
Lan"guish, n.

Defn: See Languishiment. [Obs. or Poetic]
What, of death, too, That rids our dogs of languish Shak.
And the blue languish of soft Allia's eye. Pope.

LANGUISHER
Lan"guish*er, n.

Defn: One who languishes.

LANGUISHING
Lan"guish*ing, a.

1. Becoming languid and weak; pining; losing health and strength.

2. Amorously pensive; as, languishing eyes, or look.

LANGUISHINGLY
Lan"guish*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a languishing manner.

LANGUISHMENT
Lan"guish*ment, n.

1. The state of languishing. " Lingering languishment." Shak.

2. Tenderness of look or mien; amorous pensiveness.

LANGUISHNESS
Lan"guish*ness, n.

Defn: Languishment. [Obs.]

LANGUOR
Lan"guor, n. Etym: [OE. langour, OF. langour, F. langueur, L.
languor. See Languish.]

1. A state of the body or mind which is caused by exhaustion of
strength and characterized by a languid feeling; feebleness;
lassitude; laxity.

2. Any enfeebling disease. [Obs.]
Sick men with divers languors. Wyclif (Luke iv. 40).

3. Listless indolence; dreaminess. Pope. " German dreams, Italian
languors." The Century.

Syn.
 -- Feebleness; weakness; faintness; weariness; dullness; heaviness;
lassitude; listlessness.

LANGUOROUS
Lan"guor*ous, a. Etym: [From Languor: cf. F. langoureux.]

Defn: Producing, or tending to produce, languor; characterized by
languor. [Obs. or Poetic]
Whom late I left in languorous constraint. Spenser.
To wile the length from languorous hours, and draw The sting from
pain. Tennyson.

LANGURE
Lan"gure, v. i.

Defn: To languish. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LANGYA
Lan"gya, n. (Zoöl.) Etym: [Native name Anglicized.]

Defn: One of several species of East Indian and Asiatic fresh-water
fishes of the genus Ophiocephalus, remarkable for their power of
living out of water, and for their tenacity of life; -- called also
walking fishes.

LANIARD
Lan"iard, n.

Defn: See Lanyard.

LANIARIFORM
La`ni*ar"i*form, a. Etym: [Laniary + -form.] (Anat.)

Defn: Shaped like a laniary, or canine, tooth. Owen.

LANIARY
La"ni*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. laniarius, fr. lanius butcher, laniare to
tear in pieces: cf. F. laniaire.] (Anat.)

Defn: Lacerating or tearing; as, the laniary canine teeth.

LANIARY
La"ni*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. Laniary, a.]

1. The shambles; a place of slaughter. [R.]

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A laniary, or canine, tooth.

LANIATE
La"ni*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. laniatus, p. p. of laniare.]

Defn: To tear in pieces. [R.]

LANIATION
La`ni*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. laniatio.]

Defn: A tearing in pieces. [R.]

LANIER
Lan"ier, n. Etym: [F. lanière. See Lanyard.] [Written also lanner,
lanyer.]

1. A thong of leather; a whip lash. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

2. A strap used to fasten together parts of armor, to hold the shield
by, and the like. Fairholt.

LANIFEROUS
La*nif"er*ous, n. Etym: [L. lanifer; lana wool + ferre to bear: cf.
F. lanifère.]

Defn: Bearing or producing wool.

LANIFICAL
La*nif"i*cal, a. Etym: [L. lanificus; lana wool + facere to make.]

Defn: Working in wool.

LANIFICE
Lan"i*fice, n. Etym: [L. lanificium: cf. OF. lanifice.]

Defn: Anything made of wool. [Obs.] Bacon.

LANIGEROUS
La*nig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. laniger; lano wool + gerere to hear.]

Defn: Bearing or producing wool.

LANIOID
La"ni*oid, a. Etym: [NL. Lanius (fr. L. lanius a butcher), the
typical genus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the shrikes (family Laniidæ).

LANK
Lank, a. [Compar. Lanker; superl. Lankest.] Etym: [AS. hlanc; cf. G.
lenken to turn, gelenk joint, OHG. hlanca hip, side, flank, and E.
link of a chain.]

1. Slender and thin; not well filled out; not plump; shrunken; lean.
Meager and lank with fasting grown. Swift.
Who would not choose . . . to have rather a lank purse than an empty
brain Barrow.

2. Languid; drooping.[Obs.]
Who, piteous of her woes, reared her lank head. Milton.
Lank hair, long, thin hair. Macaulay.

LANK
Lank, v. i. & t.

Defn: To become lank; to make lank. [Obs.] Shak. G. Fletcher.

LANKINESS
Lank"i*ness, n.

Defn: The condition or quality or being lanky.

LANKLY
Lank"ly, adv.

Defn: In a lank manner.

LANKNESS
Lank"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being lank.

LANKY
Lank"y, a.

Defn: Somewhat lank. Thackeray.
The lanky Dinka, nearly seven feet in height. The Century.

LANNER; LANNERET
Lan"ner, n. f. Lan"ner*et, n. m. Etym: [F. lanier, OF. also, lasnier.
Cf. Lanyard.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A long-tailed falcon (Falco lanarius), of Southern Europe,
Asia, and Northern Africa, resembling the American prairie falcon.

LANOLIN
Lan"o*lin, n. Etym: [L. lana wool + oleum oil.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar fatlike body, made up of cholesterin and certain
fatty acids, found in feathers, hair, wool, and keratin tissues
generally.

Note: Under the same name, it is prepared from wool for commercial
purposes, and forms an admirable basis for ointments, being readily
absorbed by the skin.

LANSEH
Lan"seh, n.

Defn: The small, whitish brown fruit of an East Indian tree (Lansium
domesticum). It has a fleshy pulp, with an agreeable subacid taste.
Balfour.

LANSQUENET
Lans"que*net, n. Etym: [F., fr. G. landsknecht a foot soldier, also a
game of cards introduced by these foot soldiers; land country +
knecht boy, servant. See Land, and Knight.]

1. A German foot soldier in foreign service in the 15th and 16th
centuries; a soldier of fortune; -- a term used in France and Western
Europe.

2. A game at cards, vulgarly called lambskinnet.
[They play] their little game of lansquenet. Longfellow.

LANT
Lant, n.

Defn: Urine. [Prov. Eng.] Nares.

LANT
Lant, n. Etym: [Cf. Lance.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small, slender, marine fishes of
the genus Ammedytes. The common European species (A. tobianus) and
the American species (A. Americanus) live on sandy shores, buried in
the sand, and are caught in large quantities for bait. Called also
launce, and sand eel.

LANT
Lant, n.

Defn: See Lanterloo. [Obs.] Halliwell.

LANTANIUM; LANTANUM
Lan*ta"ni*um, Lan"ta*num, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Lanthanum.

LANTANURIC
Lan`ta*nu"ric, a. Etym: [Formed by transposition of the letters of
allantoin and -uric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic acid of
the uric acid group, obtained by the decomposition of allantoin, and
usually called allanturic acid.

LANTERLOO
Lan"ter*loo`, n.

Defn: An old name of loo (a).

LANTERN
Lan"tern, n. Etym: [F. lanterne, L. lanterna, laterna, from Gr.
Lamp.]

1. Something inclosing a light, and protecting it from wind, rain,
etc. ; -- sometimes portable, as a closed vessel or case of horn,
perforated tin, glass, oiled paper, or other material, having a lamp
or candle within; sometimes fixed, as the glazed inclosure of a
street light, or of a lighthouse light.

2. (Arch.)
(a) An open structure of light material set upon a roof, to give
light and air to the interior.
(b) A cage or open chamber of rich architecture, open below into the
building or tower which it crowns.
(c) A smaller and secondary cupola crowning a larger one, for
ornament, or to admit light; such as the lantern of the cupola of the
Capitol at Washington, or that of the Florence cathedral.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: A lantern pinion or trundle wheel. See Lantern pinion (below).

4. (Steam Engine)

Defn: A kind of cage inserted in a stuffing box and surrounding a
piston rod, to separate the packing into two parts and form a chamber
between for the reception of steam, etc. ; -- called also lantern
brass.

5. (Founding)

Defn: A perforated barrel to form a core upon.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Aristotle's lantern.

Note: Fig. 1 represents a hand lantern; fig. 2, an arm lantern; fig.
3, a breast lantern; -- so named from the positions in which they are
carried. Dark lantern, a lantern with a single opening, which may be
closed so as to conceal the light; -- called also bull's-eye.
 -- Lantern fly, Lantern carrier (Zoöl.), any one of several species
of large, handsome, hemipterous insects of the genera Laternaria,
Fulgora, and allies, of the family Fulgoridæ. The largest species is
Laternaria phosphorea of Brazil. The head of some species has been
supposed to be phosphorescent.
 -- Lantern jaws, long, thin jaws; hence, a thin visage.
 -- Lantern pinion, Lantern wheel (Mach.), a kind of pinion or wheel
having cylindrical bars or trundles, instead of teeth, inserted at
their ends in two parallel disks or plates; -- so called as
resembling a lantern in shape; -- called also wallower, or trundle.
 -- Lantern shell (Zoöl.), any translucent, marine, bivalve shell of
the genus Anatina, and allied genera.
 -- Magic lantern, an optical instrument consisting of a case
inclosing a light, and having suitable lenses in a lateral tube, for
throwing upon a screen, in a darkened room or the like, greatly
magnified pictures from slides placed in the focus of the outer lens.

LANTERN
Lan"tern, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lanterned; p. pr. & vb. n. Lanterning.]
Etym: [Cf. F. lanterner to hang at the lamp post, fr. lanterne. See
Lantern.]

Defn: To furnish with a lantern; as, to lantern a lighthouse.

LANTERN-JAWED
Lan"tern-jawed`, a.

Defn: Having lantern jaws or long, thin jaws; as, a lantern-jawed
person.

LANTHANITE
Lan"tha*nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Hydrous carbonate of lanthanum, found in tabular while
crystals.

LANTHANUM
Lan"tha*num, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A rare element of the group of the earth metals, allied to
aluminium. It occurs in certain rare minerals, as cerite, gadolinite,
orthite, etc., and was so named from the difficulty of separating it
from cerium, didymium, and other rare elements with which it is
usually associated. Atomic weight 138.5. Symbol La. [Formerly written
also lanthanium.]

LANTHOPINE
Lan"tho*pine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid found in opium in small quantities, and extracted
as a white crystalline substance.

LANTHORN
Lan"thorn, n.

Defn: See Lantern. [Obs.]

LANUGINOSE; LANUGINOUS
La*nu"gi*nose`, La*nu"gi*nous, a. Etym: [L. lanuginosus, fr. lanugo,
-ginis, woolly substance, down, fr. lana wool: cf. F. lanugineux.]

Defn: Covered with down, or fine soft hair; downy.

LANUGO
La*nu"go, n. Etym: [See Lanuginose.] (Anat.)

Defn: The soft woolly hair which covers most parts of the mammal
fetus, and in man is shed before or soon after birth.

LANYARD
Lan"yard, n. Etym: [F.lanière thong, strap, OF. lasniere, fr. lasne
strap, thong, L. lacinia lappet. flap, edge of a garment. Cf.
Lanier.] [Written also laniard.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A short piece of rope or line for fastening something in ships;
as, the lanyards of the gun ports, of the buoy, and the like; esp.,
pieces passing through the dead-eyes, and used to extend shrouds,
stays, etc.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A strong cord, about twelve feet long, with an iron hook at one
end a handle at the other, used in firing cannon with a friction
tube.

LANYER
Lan"yer, n.

Defn: See Lanier.

LAOCOON; LAOCOOEN
La*oc"o*ön, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A priest of Apollo, during the Trojan war. (See 2.)

2. (Sculp.)

Defn: A marble group in the Vatican at Rome, representing the priest
Laocoön, with his sons, infolded in the coils of two serpents, as
described by Virgil.

LAODICEAN
La*od`i*ce"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Laodicea, a city in Phrygia Major; like the
Christians of Laodicea; lukewarm in religion. Rev. iii. 14-16.

LAP
Lap, n. Etym: [OE. lappe, AS. læppa; akin to D. lap patch, piece, G.
lappen, OHG. lappa, Dan. lap, Sw. lapp.]

1. The loose part of a coat; the lower part of a garment that plays
loosely; a skirt; an apron. Chaucer.

2. An edge; a border; a hem, as of cloth. Chaucer.
If he cuts off but a lap of truth's garment, his heart smites him.
Fuller.

3. The part of the clothing that lies on the knees or thighs when one
sits down; that part of the person thus covered; figuratively, a
place of rearing and fostering; as, to be reared in the lap of
luxury.
Men expect that happiness should drop into their laps. Tillotson.

4. That part of any substance or fixture which extends over, or lies
upon, or by the side of, a part of another; as, the lap of a board;
also, the measure of such extension over or upon another thing.

Note: The lap of shingles or slates in roofing is the distance one
course extends over the second course below, the distance over the
course immediately below being called the cover.

5. (Steam Engine)

Defn: The amount by which a slide valve at its half stroke overlaps a
port in the seat, being equal to the distance the valve must move
from its mid stroke position in order to begin to open the port. Used
alone, lap refers to outside lap. See Outside lap (below).

6. The state or condition of being in part extended over or by the
side of something else; or the extent of the overlapping; as, the
second boat got a lap of half its length on the leader.

7. One circuit around a race track, esp. when the distance is a small
fraction of a mile; as, to run twenty laps; to win by three laps. See
Lap, to fold, 2.

8. In card playing and other games, the points won in excess of the
number necessary to complete a game; -- so called when they are
counted in the score of the following game.

9. (Cotton Manuf.)

Defn: A sheet, layer, or bat, of cotton fiber prepared for the
carding machine.

10. (Mach.)

Defn: A piece of brass, lead, or other soft metal, used to hold a
cutting or polishing powder in cutting glass, gems, and the like, or
in polishing cutlery, etc. It is usually in the form of wheel or
disk, which revolves on a vertical axis. Lap joint, a joint made by
one layer, part, or piece, overlapping another, as in the scarfing of
timbers.
 -- Lap weld, a lap joint made by welding together overlapping edges
or ends.
 -- Inside lap (Steam Engine), lap of the valve with respect to the
exhaust port.
 -- Outside lap, lap with respect to the admission, or steam, port.

LAP
Lap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lapped (; p. pr. & vb. n. Lapping.]

1. To rest or recline in a lap, or as in a lap.
To lap his head on lady's breast. Praed.

2. To cut or polish with a lap, as glass, gems, cutlery, etc. See 1st
Lap, 10.

LAP
Lap, v. t. Etym: [OE. lappen to fold (see Lap, n.); cf. also OE.
wlappen, perh. another form of wrappen, E, wrap.]

1. To fold; to bend and lay over or on something; as, to lap a piece
of cloth.

2. To wrap or wind around something.
About the paper . . . I lapped several times a slender thread of very
black silk. Sir I. Newton.

3. To infold; to hold as in one's lap; to cherish.
Her garment spreads, and laps him in the folds. Dryden.

4. To lay or place over anything so as to partly or wholly cover it;
as, to lap one shingle over another; to lay together one partly over
another; as, to lap weather-boards; also, to be partly over, or by
the side of (something); as, the hinder boat lapped the foremost one.

5. (Carding & Spinning)

Defn: To lay together one over another, as fleeces or slivers for
further working. To lap boards, shingles, etc., to lay one partly
over another.
 -- To lap timbers, to unite them in such a way as to preserve the
same breadth and depth throughout, as by scarfing. Weale.

LAP
Lap, v. i.

Defn: To be turned or folded; to lie partly upon or by the side of
something, or of one another; as, the cloth laps back; the boats lap;
the edges lap.
The upper wings are opacous; at their hinder ends, where they lap
over, transparent, like the wing of a flay. Grew.

LAP
Lap, v. i. Etym: [OE. lappen, lapen, AS. lapian; akin to LG. lappen,
OHG. laffan, Icel. lepja, Dan. lade, Sw. läppja, L. lambere; cf. Gr.
llepio. Cf. Lambent.]

1. To take up drink or food with the tongue; to drink or feed by
licking up something.
The dogs by the River Nilus's side, being thirsty, lap hastily as
they run along the shore. Sir K. Digby.

2. To make a sound like that produced by taking up drink with the
tongue.
I heard the ripple washing in the reeds, And the wild water lapping
on the crag. Tennyson.

LAP
Lap, v. t.

Defn: To take into the mouth with the tongue; to lick up with a quick
motion of the tongue.
They 'II take suggestion as a cat laps milk. Shak.

LAP
Lap, n.

1. The act of lapping with, or as with, the tongue; as, to take
anything into the mouth with a lap.

2. The sound of lapping.

LAPAROCELE
Lap"a*ro*cele`, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A rupture or hernia in the lumbar regions.

LAPAROTOMY
Lap`a*rot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: A cutting through the walls of the abdomen, as in the Cæsarean
section.

LAPBOARD
Lap"board`, n.

Defn: A board used on the lap as a substitute for a table, as by
tailors.

LAPDOG
Lap"dog`, n.

Defn: A small dog fondled in the lap.

LAPEL
La*pel", n. Etym: [Dim. of lap a fold.]

Defn: That part of a garment which is turned back; specifically, the
lap, or fold, of the front of a coat in continuation of collar.
[Written also lappel and lapelle.]

LAPELLED
La*pelled", a.

Defn: Furnished with lapels.

LAPFUL
Lap"ful, n.; pl. Lapfuls (.

Defn: As much as the lap can contain.

LAPICIDE
Lap"i*cide, n. Etym: [L. lapicida, fr. lapis stone + caedere to cut.]

Defn: A stonecutter. [Obs.]

LAPIDARIAN
Lap`i*da"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to stone; inscribed on stone; as, a lapidarian
record.

LAPIDARIOUS
Lap`i*da"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. lapidarius, fr. lapis, -idis, stone.]

Defn: Consisting of stones.

LAPIDARY
Lap"i*da*ry, n. ; pl. Lapidaries. Etym: [L. lapidarius, fr.
lapidarius pertaining to stone: cf. F. lapidaire.]

1. An artificer who cuts, polishes, and engraves precious stones;
hence, a dealer in precious stones.

2. A virtuoso skilled in gems or precious stones; a connoisseur of
lapidary work. Lapidary's lathe, mill, or wheel, a machine consisting
essentially of a revolving lap on a vertical spindle, used by a
lapidary for grinding and polishing.

LAPIDARY
Lap"i*da*ry, a. Etym: [L. lapidarius pertaining to stone: cf. F.
lapidaire.]

1. Of or pertaining to the art of cutting stones, or engraving on
stones, either gems or monuments; as, lapidary ornamentation.

2. Of or pertaining to monumental inscriptions; as, lapidary
adulation. Lapidary style, that style which is proper for monumental
and other inscriptions; terse; sententious.

LAPIDATE
Lap"i*date, v. t. Etym: [L.lapidatus, p. p. of lapidare, fr. lapis
stone.]

Defn: To stone. [Obs.]

LAPIDATION
Lap`i*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. lapidatio: cf. F. lapidation.]

Defn: The act of stoning. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

LAPIDEOUS
La*pid"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. lapideus, fr. lapis stone.]

Defn: Of the nature of stone; [Obs.] Ray.

LAPIDESCENCE
Lap`i*des"cence, n.

1. The state or quality of being lapidescent.

2. A hardening into a stone substance.

3. A stony concretion. Sir T. Browne.

LAPIDESCENT
Lap`i*des"cent, a. Etym: [L. lapidescens, p. pr. of lapidescere to
become stone, fr. lapis, -idis, stone: cf. F. lapidescent.]

Defn: Undergoing the process of becoming stone; having the capacity
of being converted into stone; having the quality of petrifying
bodies.

LAPIDESCENT
Lap"i*des"cent, n.

Defn: Any substance which has the quality of petrifying other bodies,
or of converting or being converted into stone.

LAPIDIFIC; LAPIDIFICAL
Lap`i*dif"ic, Lap`i*dif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. lapis, -idis, stone +
facere to make: cf. F. lapidifique.]

Defn: Forming or converting into stone.

LAPIDIFICATION
La*pid`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lapidification.]

Defn: The act or process of lapidifying; fossilization; petrifaction.

LAPIDIFY
La*pid"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lapidified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lapidifying.] Etym: [Cf. f. lapidifier. See Lapidific, and -fy.]

Defn: To convert into stone or stony material; to petrify.

LAPIDIFY
La*pid"i*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become stone or stony

LAPIDIST
Lap"i*dist, n. Etym: [L. lapis, -idis, a stone.]

Defn: A lapidary. Ray.

LAPILLATION
Lap"il*la"tion, n.Etym: [See Lapilli.]

Defn: The state of being, or the act of making, stony.

LAPILLI
La*pil"li, n. pl. Etym: [L. lapillus a little stone, dim. of lapis
stone.] (Min.)

Defn: Volcanic ashes, consisting of small, angular, stony fragments
or particles.

LAPIS
La"pis, n.; pl. Lapides. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A stone. Lapis calaminaris (. Etym: [NL.] (Min.) Calamine.
 -- Lapis infernalis (. Etym: [L.] Fused nitrate of silver; lunar
caustic.

LAPIS LAZULI
La"pis laz"u*li. (Min.)

Defn: An albuminous mineral of a rich blue color. Same as Lazuli,
which see.

LAP-JOINTED
Lap"-joint`ed, a.

Defn: Having a lap joint, or lap joints, as many kinds of woodwork
and metal work.

LAPLANDER
Lap"land*er, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Lapland; -- called also Lapp.

LAPLANDISH
Lap"land*ish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lapland.

LAPLING
Lap"ling, n. Etym: [Lap of a garment + ling.]

Defn: One who has been fondled to excess; one fond of ease and
sensual delights; -- a term of contempt.

LAPP
Lapp, n.

Defn: Same as Laplander. Cf. Lapps.

LAPPACEOUS
Lap*pa"ceous, a. Etym: [L. lappaceus burlike, fr. lappa a bur.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Resembling the capitulum of burdock; covered with forked
points.

LAPPER
Lap"per, n. Etym: [From Lap to drink.]

Defn: One who takes up food or liquid with his tongue.

LAPPET
Lap"pet, n. Etym: [Dim. of lap a fold.]

Defn: A small decorative fold or flap, esp, of lace or muslin, in a
garment or headdress. Swift. Lappet moth (Zoöl.), one of several
species of bombycid moths, which have stout, hairy caterpillars, flat
beneath. Two common American species (Gastropacha Americana, and
Tolype velleda) feed upon the apple tree.

LAPPET
Lap"pet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lappeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Lappeting.]

Defn: To decorate with, or as with, a lappet. [R.] Landor.

LAPPIC
Lap"pic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lapland, or the Lapps.
 -- n.

Defn: The language of the Lapps. See Lappish.

LAPPING
Lap"ping, n.

Defn: A kind of machine blanket or wrapping material used by calico
printers. Ure. Lapping engine, Lapping machine (Textile Manuf.), A
machine for forming fiber info a lap. See its Lap, 9.

LAPPISH
Lap"pish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Lapps; Laplandish.
 -- n.

Defn: The language spoken by the Lapps in Lapland. It is related to
the Finnish and Hungarian, and is not an Aryan language.

LAPPONIAN; LAPPONIC
Lap*po"ni*an, Lap*pon"ic, a.

Defn: Laplandish; Lappish.

LAPPS
Lapps, n. pl.; sing. Lapp (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A branch of the Mongolian race, now living in the northern
parts of Norway, Sweden, and the adjacent parts of Russia.

LAPSABLE
Laps"a*ble, a.

Defn: Lapsible. Cudworth.

LAPSE
Lapse, n. Etym: [L. lapsus, fr. labi, p. p. lapsus, to slide, to
fall: cf. F. laps. See Sleep.]

1. A gliding, slipping, or gradual falling; an unobserved or
imperceptible progress or passing away,; -- restricted usually to
immaterial things, or to figurative uses.
The lapse to indolence is soft and imperceptible. Rambler.
Bacon was content to wait the lapse of long centuries for his
expected revenue of fame. I. Taylor.

2. A slip; an error; a fault; a failing in duty; a slight deviation
from truth or rectitude.
To guard against those lapses and failings to which our infirmities
daily expose us. Rogers.

3. (Law)

Defn: The termination of a right or privilege through neglect to
exercise it within the limited time, or through failure of some
contingency; hence, the devolution of a right or privilege.

4. (Theol.)

Defn: A fall or apostasy.

LAPSE
Lapse, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lapsed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lapsing.]

1. To pass slowly and smoothly downward, backward, or away; to slip
downward, backward, or away; to glide; -- mostly restricted to
figurative uses.
A tendency to lapse into the barbarity of those northern nations from
whom we are descended. Swift.
Homer, in his characters of Vulcan and Thersites, has lapsed into the
burlesque character. Addison.

2. To slide or slip in moral conduct; to fail in duty; to fall from
virtue; to deviate from rectitude; to commit a fault by inadvertence
or mistake.
To lapse in fullness Is sorer than to lie for need. Shak.

3. (Law)
(a) To fall or pass from one proprietor to another, or from the
original destination, by the omission, negligence, or failure of some
one, as a patron, a legatee, etc.
(b) To become ineffectual or void; to fall.
If the archbishop shall not fill it up within six months ensuing, it
lapses to the king. Ayliffe.

LAPSE
Lapse, v. t.

1. To let slip; to permit to devolve on another; to allow to pass.
An appeal may be deserted by the appellant's lapsing the term of law.
Ayliffe.

2. To surprise in a fault or error; hence, to surprise or catch, as
an offender. [Obs.]
For which, if be lapsed in this place, I shall pay dear. Shak.

LAPSED
Lapsed, a.

1. Having slipped downward, backward, or away; having lost position,
privilege, etc., by neglect; -- restricted to figurative uses.
Once more I will renew His lapsed powers, though forfeit. Milton.

2. Ineffectual, void, or forfeited; as, a lapsed policy of insurance;
a lapsed legacy. Lapsed devise, Lapsed legacy (Law), a devise, or
legacy, which fails to take effect in consequence of the death of the
devisee, or legatee, before that of the testator, or for ether cause.
Wharton (Law Dict.).

LAPSIBLE
Laps"i*ble, a.

Defn: Liable to lapse.

LAPSIDED
Lap"sid`ed, a.

Defn: See Lopsided.

LAPSTONE
Lap"stone`, n.

Defn: A stone for the lap, on which shoemakers beat leather.

LAPSTREAK; LAPSTRAKE
Lap"streak`, Lap"strake`, a.

Defn: Made with boards whose edges lap one over another; clinker-
built; -- said of boats.

LAPUTAN
La*pu"tan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Laputa, an imaginary flying island
described in Gulliver's Travels as the home of chimerical
philosophers. Hence, fanciful; preposterous; absurd in science or
philosophy. "Laputan ideas." G. Eliot.

LAP-WELDED
Lap"-weld`ed, a

Defn: Having edges or ends united by a lap weld; as, a lap-welded
pipe.

LAPWING
Lap"wing`, n. Etym: [OE.lapwynke, leepwynke, AS. hleápewince; hleápan
to leap, jump + (prob.) a word akin to AS. wincian to wink, E. wink,
AS. wancol wavering; cf. G. wanken to stagger, waver. See Leap, and
Wink.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European bird of the Plover family (Vanellus cristatus,
or V. vanellus). It has long and broad wings, and is noted for its
rapid, irregular fight, upwards, downwards, and in circles. Its back
is coppery or greenish bronze. Its eggs are the "plover's eggs" of
the London market, esteemed a delicacy. It is called also peewit,
dastard plover, and wype. The gray lapwing is the Squatarola cinerea.

LAPWORK
Lap"work`, n.

Defn: Work in which one part laps over another. Grew.

LAQUAY
Laq"uay, n.

Defn: A lackey. [Obs.] Evelyn.

LAQUEAR
La"que*ar, n.; pl. Laquearia. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)

Defn: A lacunar.

LAQUEARY
Laq"ue*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. laqueus a noose.]

Defn: Using a noose, as a gladiator. [Obs. or R.]
Retiary and laqueary combatants. Sir T. Browne.

LAR
Lar, n.; pl. Lares, sometimes Lars. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: A tutelary deity; a deceased ancestor regarded as a protector
of the family. The domestic Lares were the tutelar deities of a
house; household gods. Hence, Eng.: Hearth or dwelling house.
Nor will she her dear Lar forget, Victorious by his benefit.
Lovelace.
The Lars and Lemures moan with midnight plaint. Milton.
Looking backward in vain toward their Lares and lands. Longfellow.

LAR
Lar, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of gibbon (Hylobates lar), found in Burmah. Called
also white-handed gibbon.

LARAMIE GROUP
Lar"a*mie group`. (Geol.)

Defn: An extensive series of strata, principally developed in the
Rocky Mountain region, as in the Laramie Mountains, and formerly
supposed to be of the Tertiary age, but now generally regarded as
Cretaceous, or of intermediate and transitional character. It
contains beds of lignite, often valuable for coal, and is hence also
called the lignitic group. See Chart of Geology.

LARBOARD
Lar"board`, n. Etym: [Lar- is of uncertain origin, possibly the same
as lower, i. e., humbler in rank, because the starboard side is
considered by mariners as higher in rank; cf. D. laag low, akin to E.
low. See Board, n., 8.] (Naut.)

Defn: The left-hand side of a ship to one on board facing toward the
bow; port; -- opposed to Ant: starboard.

Note: Larboard is a nearly obsolete term, having been superseded by
port to avoid liability of confusion with starboard, owing to
similarity of sound.

LARBOARD
Lar"board`, a.

Defn: On or pertaining to the left-hand side of a vessel; port; as,
the larboard quarter.

LARCENER; LARCENIST
Lar"ce*ner, Lar"ce*nist, n.

Defn: One who commits larceny.

LARCENOUS
Lar"ce*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. OE. larrecinos. See Larceny.]

Defn: Having the character of larceny; as, a larcenous act;
committing larceny. "The larcenous and burglarious world." Sydney
Smith.
 -- Lar"ce*nous*ly, adv.

LARCENY
Lar"ce*ny, n.; pl. Larcenies. Etym: [F. larcin, OE. larrecin, L.
latrocinium, fr. latro robber, mercenary, hired servant; cf. Gr.
(Latrociny.] (Law)

Defn: The unlawful taking and carrying away of things personal with
intent to deprive the right owner of the same; theft. Cf.
Embezzlement. Grand larceny and Petit larceny are distinctions having
reference to the nature or value of the property stolen. They are
abolished in England.
 -- Mixed, or Compound, larceny, that which, under statute, includes
in it the aggravation of a taking from a building or the person.
 -- Simple larceny, that which is not accompanied with any
aggravating circumstances.

LARCH
Larch, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. larege (Cotgrave), It.larice, Sp. larice,
alerce, G. lärche; all fr. L. larix, -icis, Gr. ( (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of coniferous trees, having deciduous leaves, in
fascicles (see Illust. of Fascicle).

Note: The European larch is Larix Europæa. The American or black
larch is L. Americana, the hackmatack or tamarack. The trees are
generally of a drooping, graceful appearance.

LARCHEN
Larch"en, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the larch. Keats.

LARD
Lard, n. Etym: [F., bacon, pig's fat, L. lardum, laridum; cf. Gr. (

1. Bacon; the flesh of swine. [Obs.] Dryden.

2. The fat of swine, esp. the internal fat of the abdomen; also, this
fat melted and strained. Lard oil, an illuminating and lubricating
oil expressed from lard.
 -- Leaf lard, the internal fat of the hog, separated in leaves or
masses from the kidneys, etc.; also, the same melted.

LARD
Lard, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Larded; p. pr. & vb. n. Larding.] Etym: [F.
larder. See Lard, n.]

1. To stuff with bacon; to dress or enrich with lard; esp., to insert
lardons of bacon or pork in the surface of, before roasting; as, to
lard poultry.
And larded thighs on loaded altars laid. Dryden.

2. To fatten; to enrich.
[The oak] with his nuts larded many a swine. Spenser.
Falstaff sweats to death. And lards the lean earth as he walks along.
Shak.

3. To smear with lard or fat.
In his buff doublet larded o'er with fat Of slaughtered brutes.
Somerville.

4. To mix or garnish with something, as by way of improvement; to
interlard. Shak.
Let no alien Sedley interpose To lard with wit thy hungry Epsom
prose. Dryden.

LARD
Lard, v. i.

Defn: To grow fat. [Obs.]

LARDACEIN
Lar`da*ce"in, n. Etym: [See Lardaceous.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar amyloid substance, colored blue by iodine and
sulphuric acid, occurring mainly as an abnormal infiltration into the
spleen, liver, etc.

LARDACEOUS
Lar*da"ceous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lardacé.]

Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, lard. Lardaceous degeneration
(Med.), amyloid degeneration.

LARDER
Lard"er, n. Etym: [OF. lardier. See Lard, n.]

Defn: A room or place where meat and other articles of food are kept
before they are cooked. Shak.

LARDERER
Lard"er*er, n.

Defn: One in charge of the larder.

LARDERY
Lard"er*y, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. larderie.]

Defn: A larder. [Obs.]

LARDON; LARDOON
Lar"don, Lar*doon", n. Etym: [F. lardon, fr. lard lard.]

Defn: A bit of fat pork or bacon used in larding.

LARDRY
Lard"ry, n. Etym: [See Lardery.]

Defn: A larder. [Obs.]

LARDY
Lard"y, a.

Defn: Containing, or resembling, lard; of the character or
consistency of lard.

LARE
Lare, n. Etym: [See Lore.]

Defn: Lore; learning. [Obs.]

LARE
Lare, n.

Defn: Pasture; feed. See Lair. [Obs.] Spenser.

LARE
Lare, v. t.

Defn: To feed; to fatten. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

LARES
La"res, n. pl.

Defn: See 1st Lar.

LARGE
Large, a. [Compar. Larger; superl. Largest.] Etym: [F., fr. L.
largus. Cf. Largo.]

1. Exceeding most other things of like in bulk, capacity, quantity,
superficial dimensions, or number of constituent units; big; great;
capacious; extensive; -- opposed to small; as, a nlarge horse; a
large house or room; a large lake or pool; a large jug or spoon; a
large vineyard; a large army; a large city.

Note: For linear dimensions, and mere extent, great, and not large,
is used as a qualifying word; as, great length, breadth, depth; a
great distance; a great height.

2. Abundant; ample; as, a large supply of provisions.
We hare yet large day. Milton.

3. Full in statement; diffuse; full; profuse.
I might be very large upon the importance and advantages of
education. Felton.

4. Having more than usual power or capacity; having broad sympathies
and generous impulses; comprehensive; -- said of the mind and heart.

5. Free; unembarrassed. [Obs.]
Of burdens all he set the Paynims large. Fairfax.

6. Unrestrained by decorum; -- said of language. [Obs.] "Some large
jests he will make." Shak.

7. Prodigal in expending; lavish. [Obs.] Chaucer.

8. (Naut.)

Defn: Crossing the line of a ship's course in a favorable direction;
-- said of the wind when it is abeam, or between the beam and the
quarter. At large. (a) Without restraint or confinement; as, to go at
large; to be left at large. (b) Diffusely; fully; in the full extent;
as, to discourse on a subject at large.
 -- Common at large. See under Common, n.
 -- Electors at large, Representative at large, electors, or a
representative, as in Congress, chosen to represent the whole of a
State, in distinction from those chosen to represent particular
districts in a State. [U. S.] -- To give, go, run, or sail large
(Naut.), to have the wind crossing the direction of a vessel's course
in such a way that the sails feel its full force, and the vessel
gains its highest speed. See Large, a., 8.

Syn.
 -- Big; bulky; huge; capacious; comprehensive; ample; abundant;
plentiful; populous; copious; diffusive; liberal.

LARGE
Large, adv.

Defn: Freely; licentiously. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LARGE
Large, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A musical note, formerly in use, equal to two longs, four
breves, or eight semibreves.

LARGE-ACRED
Large"-a`cred, a.

Defn: Possessing much land.

LARGE-HANDED
Large"-hand`ed, a.

Defn: Having large hands, Fig.: Taking, or giving, in large
quantities; rapacious or bountiful.

LARGE-HEARTED
Large"-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Having a large or generous heart or disposition; noble;
liberal.
 -- Large"-heart`ed*ness, n.

LARGELY
Large"ly, adv.

Defn: In a large manner. Dryden. Milton.

LARGENESS
Large"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being large.

LARGESS; LARGESSE
Lar"gess, Lar"gesse, n. Etym: [F. largesse, fr. large. See Large, a.]

1. Liberality; generosity; bounty. [Obs.]
Fulfilled of largesse and of all grace. Chaucer.

2. A present; a gift; a bounty bestowed.
The heralds finished their proclamation with their usual cry of
"Largesse, largesse, gallant knights!" and gold and silver pieces
were showered on them from the galleries. Sir W. Scott.

LARGET
Lar"get, n. Etym: [Cf. F. larget.]

Defn: A sport piece of bar iron for rolling into a sheet; a small
billet.

LARGHETTO
Lar*ghet"to, a. & adv. Etym: [It., dim. of largo largo.] (Mus.)

Defn: Somewhat slow or slowly, but not so slowly as largo, and rather
more so than andante.

LARGIFICAL
Lar*gif"i*cal, a. Etym: [L. largificus; largus large + facere.]

Defn: Generous; ample; liberal. [Obs.]

LARGIFLUOUS
Lar*gif"lu*ous, a. Etym: [L. largifiuus; large abundantly + fluere to
flow.]

Defn: Flowing copiously. [Obs.]

LARGILOQUENT
Lar*gil"o*quent, a. Etym: [Cf. L. largiloquus.]

Defn: Grandiloquent. [Obs.]

LARGISH
Lar"gish, a.

Defn: Somewhat large. [Colloq.]

LARGITION
Lar*gi"tion, Etym: [L. largitio, fr. largiri, p. p. largitus, to give
bountifully.]

Defn: The bestowment of a largess or gift. [Obs.]

LARGO
Lar"go, a. & adv. Etym: [It., large, L. largus, See Large.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slow or slowly; -- more so than adagio; next in slowness to
grave, which is also weighty and solemn.
 -- n.

Defn: A movement or piece in largo time.

LARIAT
Lar"i*at, n. Etym: [Sp. la reata the rope; la the + reata rope. Cf.
Reata.]

Defn: A long, slender rope made of hemp or strips of hide, esp. one
with a noose; -- used as a lasso for catching cattle, horses, etc.,
and for picketing a horse so that he can graze without wandering.
[Mexico & Western U.S.]

LARIAT
Lar"i*at, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lariated; p. pr. & vb. n. Lariating.]

Defn: To secure with a lariat fastened to a stake, as a horse or mule
for grazing; also, to lasso or catch with a lariat. [Western U.S.]

LARINE
La"rine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Gull family (Laridæ).

LARIXINIC
Lar`ix*in"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, or derived from, the larch (Larix); as, larixinic acid.

LARK
Lark, n. Etym: [Perh fr. AS. lac play, sport. Cf. Lake, v. i.]

Defn: A frolic; a jolly time. [Colloq.] Dickens.

LARK
Lark, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Larked; p. pr. & vb. n. Larking.]

Defn: To sport; to frolic. [Colloq.]

LARK
Lark, n. Etym: [OE. larke, laverock, AS. lawerce; akin to D.
leeuwerik, LG. lewerke, OHG. l, G. lerche, Sw. lärka, Dan. lerke,
Icel. lævirki.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one numerous species of singing birds of the genus Alauda
and allied genera (family Alaudidæ). They mostly belong to Europe,
Asia, and Northern Africa. In America they are represented by the
shore larks, or horned by the shore larks, or horned larks, of the
genus Otocoris. The true larks have holaspidean tarsi, very long hind
claws, and usually, dull, sandy brown colors.

Note: The European skylark, or lark of the poets (Alauda arvensis),
is of a brown mottled color, and is noted for its clear and sweet
song, uttered as it rises and descends almost perpendicularly in the
air. It is considered a table delicacy, and immense numbers are
killed for the markets. Other well-known European species are the
crested, or tufted, lark (Alauda cristata), and the wood lark (A.
arborea). The pipits, or titlarks, of the genus Anthus (family
Motacillidæ) are often called larks. See Pipit. The American meadow
larks, of the genus Sturnella, are allied to the starlings. See
Meadow Lark. The Australian bush lark is Mirafra Horsfieldii. See
Shore lark. Lark bunting (Zoöl.), a fringilline bird (Calamospiza
melanocorys) found on the plains of the Western United States.
 -- Lark sparrow (Zoöl.), a sparrow (Chondestes grammacus), found in
the Mississippi Valley and the Western United States.

LARK
Lark, v. i.

Defn: To catch larks; as, to go larking.

LARK-COLORED
Lark"-col`ored, a.

Defn: Having the sandy brown color of the European larks.

LARKER
Lark"er, n. Etym: [See 3d Lark, for sense 1, and 1st Lark, for sense
2.]

1. A catcher of larks.

2. One who indulges in a lark or frolic. [Colloq.]

LARK'S-HEEL
Lark's"-heel`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Indian cress.

LARKSPUR
Lark"spur, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of ranunculaceous plants (Delphinium), having showy
flowers, and a spurred calyx. They are natives of the North Temperate
zone. The commonest larkspur of the gardens is D. Consolida. The
flower of the bee larkspur (D. elatum) has two petals bearded with
yellow hairs, and looks not unlike a bee.

LARMIER
Lar"mi*er, n. Etym: [F., fr. larme tear, drop, L. lacrima. See
Lachrymose.] (Anat.)

Defn: See Tearpit.

LAROID
La"roid, a. Etym: [Larus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or belonging to the Gull family (Laridæ).

LARRIKIN
Lar"ri*kin, n. [Cf. E. dial. larrikin  a mischievous or frolicsome
youth, larrick lively, careless, larack to trolic, to romp.]

Defn: A rowdy street loafer; a rowdyish or noisy ill-bred fellow; --
variously applied, as to a street blackguard, a street Arab, a youth
given to horse-play, etc. [Australia & Eng.] -- a.

Defn: Rowdy; rough; disorderly. [Australia & Eng.]

Mobs of unruly larrikins.
Sydney Daily Telegraph.

 Larrikin is often popularly explained by the following anecdote
(which is without foundation): An Irish policeman at Melbourne, on
bringing a notorious rough into court, was asked by the magistrate
what the prisoner had been doing, and replied, "He was a-larrikin'
[i. e., a-larking] about the streets."

LARRUP
Lar"rup, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Larruped; p. pr. & vb. n. Larruping.]
Etym: [Perh, a corrupt. of lee rope, used by sailors in beating the
boys; but cf. D. larpen to thresh, larp a whip, blow.]

Defn: To beat or flog soundly. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] Forby.

LARRY
Lar"ry, n.

Defn: Same as Lorry, or Lorrie.

LARUM
Lar"um

Defn: , See Alarum, and Alarm.

LARVA
Lar"va, n.; pl. L. Larvæ, E. Larvas. Etym: [L. larva ghost, specter,
mask.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any young insect from the time that it hatches from the egg
until it becomes a pupa, or chrysalis. During this time it usually
molts several times, and may change its form or color each time. The
larvæ of many insects are much like the adults in form and habits,
but have no trace of wings, the rudimentary wings appearing only in
the pupa stage. In other groups of insects the larvæ are totally
unlike the parents in structure and habits, and are called
caterpillars, grubs, maggots, etc.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The early, immature form of any animal when more or less of a
metamorphosis takes place, before the assumption of the mature shape.

LARVAL
Lar"val, a. Etym: [L. larvalis ghostly. See Larva.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a larva.

LARVALIA
Lar*va"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Larval.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Tunicata, including Appendicularia, and allied
genera; -- so called because certain larval features are retained by
them through life. Called also Copelata. See Appendicularia.

LARVATE
Lar"vate, a. [L. larva mask.]

Defn: Masked; hence, concealed; obscure; -- applied in medicine to
doubtful cases of some diseases; as, larvate pneumonis; larvate
epilepsy.

LARVATED
Lar"va*ted, a. Etym: [L.larvatus bewitched. See Larva.]

Defn: Masked; clothed as with a mask.

LARVE
Larve, n.; pl.Larves. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A larva.

LARVIFORM
Lar"vi*form, a. Etym: [Larva + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the form or structure of a larva.

LARVIPAROUS
Lar*vip"a*rous, a. Etym: [Larva + L. parete to bring forth.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Depositing living larvæ, instead of eggs; -- said of certain
insects.

LARY
La"ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lare sea gull, L. larus a sort of sea bird,
Gr. (

Defn: A guillemot; -- called also lavy. [Prov. Eng.]

LARYNGEAL
Lar`yn*ge"al, a. Etym: [From Larynx.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the larynx; adapted to operations on the
larynx; as, laryngeal forceps.

LARYNGEAN
Lar`yn*ge"an, a.

Defn: See Laryngeal.

LARYNGECTOMY
Lar`yn*gec"to*my, n.  [Larynx + Gr.  to cut out.] (Surg.)

Defn: Excision of the larynx.

LARYNGISMUS
Lar`yn*gis"mus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Larynx.] (Med.)

Defn: A spasmodic state of the glottis, giving rise to contraction or
closure of the opening.

LARYNGITIS
Lar`yn*gi"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Larynx, and -tis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the larynx.

LARYNGOGRAPH
La*ryn"go*graph, n.  [larynx + -graph.]

Defn: An instrument for recording the larynx movements in speech.

LARYNGOLOGICAL
La*ryn`go*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to laryngology.

LARYNGOLOGIST
Lar`yn*gol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who applies himself to laryngology.

LARYNGOLOGY
Lar`yn*gol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Larynx + -logy.]

Defn: Systematized knowledge of the action and functions of the
larynx; in pathology, the department which treats of the diseases of
the larynx.

LARYNGOPHONY
Lar`yn*goph"o*ny, n. Etym: [Larynx + Gr. (

Defn: The sound of the voice as heard through a stethoscope when the
latter is placed upon the larynx.

LARYNGOSCOPE
La*ryn"go*scope, n. Etym: [Larynx + -scope.] (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument, consisting of an arrangement of two mirrors, for
reflecting light upon the larynx, and for examining its image.

LARYNGOSCOPIC
La*ryn`go*scop"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the inspection of the larynx.

LARYNGOSCOPIST
Lar`yn*gos"co*pist, n.

Defn: One skilled in laryngoscopy.

LARYNGOSCOPY
Lar`yn*gos"co*py, n.

Defn: The art of using the laryngoscope; investigations made with the
laryngoscope.

LARYNGOTOME
La*ryn"go*tome, n. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for performing laryngotomy.

LARYNGOTOMY
Lar`yn*got"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (laryngotomie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of cutting into the larynx, from the outside of
the neck, for assisting respiration when obstructed, or for removing
foreign bodies.

LARYNGOTRACHEAL
La*ryn`go*tra"che*al, a. Etym: [Larynx + tracheal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to both larynx and trachea; as, the laryngotracheal
cartilage in the frog.

LARYNGOTRACHEOTOMY
La*ryn`go*tra`che*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [Larynx + tracheotomy.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of cutting into the larynx and the upper part of
the trachea, -- a frequent operation for obstruction to breathing.

LARYNX
Lar"ynx, n. [ (Anat.)

Defn: The expanded upper end of the windpipe or trachea, connected
with the hyoid bone or cartilage. It contains the vocal cords, which
produce the voice by their vibrations, when they are stretched and a
current of air passes between them. The larynx is connected with the
pharynx by an opening, the glottis, which, in mammals, is protected
by a lidlike epiglottis.

Note: In the framework of the human larynx, the thyroid cartilage,
attached to the hyoid bone, makes the protuberance on the front of
the neck known as Adam's apple, and is articulated below to the
ringlike cricoid cartilage. This is narrow in front and high behind,
where, within the thyroid, it is surmounted by the two arytenoid
cartilages, from which the vocal cords pass forward to be attached
together to the front of the thyroid. See Syrinx.

LAS
Las, n.

Defn: A lace. See Lace. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAS
Las, a. & adv.

Defn: Less. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LASCAR
Las"car, n. Etym: [Per. & Hind. lashkar an army, an inferior
artillery man, a cooly, a native sailor.]

Defn: A native sailor, employed in European vessels; also, a menial
employed about arsenals, camps, camps, etc.; a camp follower. [East
Indies]

LASCIOUS
Las"ci*ous, a.

Defn: Loose; lascivious. [Obs.] "To depaint lascious wantonness."
Holland.

LASCIVIENCY
Las*civ"i*en*cy, n. Etym: [See Lascivient.]

Defn: Lasciviousness; wantonness. [Obs.]

LASCIVIENT
Las*civ"i*ent, a. Etym: [L. lasciviens, pr. of lascivire to be
wanton, fr. lascivus. See Lascivious.]

Defn: Lascivious. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

LASCIVIOUS
Las*civ"i*ous, a. Etym: [L. lascivia wantonness, fr. lascivus wanton;
cf. Gr. (lash to desire.]

1. Wanton; lewd; lustful; as, lascivious men; lascivious desires.
Milton.

2. Tending to produce voluptuous or lewd emotions.
He capers nimbly in a lady's chamber To the lascivious pleasing of a
lute. Shak.
-- Las*civ"i*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Las*civ"i*ous*ness, n.

LASERWORT
La"ser*wort`, n. Etym: [L.laser the juice of the laserwort.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Laserpitium, of several
species (as L. glabrum, and L. siler), the root of which yields a
resinous substance of a bitter taste. The genus is mostly European.

LASH
Lash, n. Etym: [OE. lasche; cf. D. lasch piece set in, joint, seam,
G. lashe latchet, a bit of leather, gusset, stripe, laschen to
furnish with flaps, to lash or slap, Icel. laski gusset, flap, laska
to break.]

1. The thong or braided cord of a whip, with which the blow is given.
I observed that your whip wanted a lash to it. Addison.

2. A leash in which an animal is caught or held; hence, a snare.
[Obs.]

3. A stroke with a whip, or anything pliant and tough; as, the
culprit received thirty-nine lashes.

4. A stroke of satire or sarcasm; an expression or retort that cuts
or gives pain; a cut.
The moral is a lash at the vanity of arrogating that to ourselves
which succeeds well. L'Estrange.

5. A hair growing from the edge of the eyelid; an eyelash.

6. In carpet weaving, a group of strings for lifting simultaneously
certain yarns, to form the figure.

LASH
Lash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lashng.]

1. To strike with a lash ; to whip or scourge with a lash, or with
something like one.
We lash the pupil, and defraud the ward. Dryden.

2. To strike forcibly and quickly, as with a lash; to beat, or beat
upon, with a motion like that of a lash; as, a whale lashes the sea
with his tail.
And big waves lash the frighted shores. Dryden.

3. To throw out with a jerk or quickly.
He falls, and lashing up his heels, his rider throws. Dryden.

4. To scold; to berate; to satirize; to censure with severity; as, to
lash vice.

LASH
Lash

Defn: ,. v. i. To ply the whip; to strike; to uttercensure or
sarcastic language.
To laugh at follies, or to lash at vice. Dryden.
To lash out, to strike out wildly or furiously.

LASH
Lash, v. t. Etym: [Cf. D. lasschen to fasten together, lasch piece,
joint, Sw. laska to stitch, Dan. laske stitch. See Lash, n. ]

Defn: To bind with a rope, cord, thong, or chain, so as to fasten;
as, to lash something to a spar; to lash a pack on a horse's back.

LASHER
Lash"er, n.

Defn: One who whips or lashes.

LASHER
Lash"er, n.

1. A piece of rope for binding or making fast one thing to another; -
- called also lashing.

2. A weir in a river. [Eng.] Halliwell.

LASHING
Lash"ing, n.

Defn: The act of one who, or that which, lashes; castigation;
chastisement. South. Lashing out, a striking out; also, extravagance.

LASHING
Lash"ing, n.

Defn: See 2d Lasher.

LASK
Lask, n.

Defn: A diarrhea or flux. [Obs.] Holland.

LASKET
Las"ket, n. Etym: [Cf. Lash, Latching.] (Naut.)

Defn: latching.

LASS
Lass, n. Etym: [OE. lasse; prob. of Celtic origin; cf. W. llodes
girl, fem. of llawd lad. (Lad a youth.]

Defn: A youth woman; a girl; a sweetheart.

LASSE
Lasse, a. & adv.

Defn: Less. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LASSIE
Las"sie, n.

Defn: A young girl; a lass. [Scot.]

LASSITUDE
Las"si*tude, n. Etym: [L. lassitudo, fr. lassus faint, weary; akin to
E. late: cf. F. lassitude. See Late.]

Defn: A condition of the body, or mind, when its voluntary functions
are performed with difficulty, and only by a strong exertion of the
will; languor; debility; weariness.
The corporeal instruments of action being strained to a high pitch .
. . will soon feel a lassitude. Barrow.

LASSLORN
Lass"lorn`, a.

Defn: Forsaken by a lass. Shak.

LASSO
Lass"o (lâs"so) n.; pl. Lassos (-soz). Etym: [Sp. lazo, L. laqueus.
See Lace.]

Defn: A rope or long thong of leather with, a running noose, used for
catching horses, cattle, etc. Lasso cell (Zoöl.), one of a peculiar
kind of defensive and offensive stinging cells, found in great
numbers in all coelenterates, and in a few animals of other groups.
They are most highly developed in the tentacles of jellyfishes,
hydroids, and Actiniæ. Each of these cells is filled with, fluid, and
contains a long, slender, often barbed, hollow thread coiled up
within it. When the cell contracts the thread is quickly ejected,
being at the same time turned inside out. The thread is able to
penetrate the flesh of various small, soft-bodied animals, and
carries a subtle poison by which they are speedily paralyzed and
killed. The threads, at the same time, hold the prey in position,
attached to the tentacles. Some of the jellyfishes, as the Portuguese
man-of-war, and Cyanea, are able to penetrate the human skin, and
inflict painful stings in the same way. Called also nettling cell,
cnida, cnidocell.

LASSO
Las"so, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lassoed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lassoing.]

Defn: To catch with a lasso.

LAST
Last, 3d pers. sing. pres.

Defn: of Last, to endure, contracted from lasteth. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAST
Last (, a. Etym: [OE. last, latst, contr. of latest, superl. of late;
akin to OS. lezt, lazt, last, D. laatst, G. letzt. See Late, and cf.
Latest.]

1. Being after all the others, similarly classed or considered, in
time, place, or order of succession; following all the rest; final;
hindmost; farthest; as, the last year of a century; the last man in a
line of soldiers; the last page in a book; his last chance.
Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read in the
book of the law of God. Neh. viii. 18.
Fairest of stars, last in the train of night. Milton.

2. Next before the present; as, I saw him last week.

3. Supreme; highest in degree; utmost.
Contending for principles of the last importance. R. Hall
.

4. Lowest in rank or degree; as, the last prize. Pope.

5. Farthest of all from a given quality, character, or condition;
most unlikely; having least fitness; as, he is the last person to be
accused of theft.

At last, at the end of a certain period; after delay. "The duke of
Savoy felt that the time had at last arrived." Motley.
 -- At the last. Etym: [Prob. fr. AS. on laste behind, following
behind, fr. last race, track, footstep. See Last mold of the foot.]
At the end; in the conclusion. [Obs.] "Gad, a troop shall overcome
him; but he shall overcome at the last." Gen. xlix. 19.
 -- Last heir, the person to whom lands escheat for want of an heir.
[Eng.] Abbott.
 -- On one's last legs, at, or near, the end of one's resources;
hence, on the verge of failure or ruin, especially in a financial
sense. [Colloq.] -- To breathe one's last, to die.
 -- To the last, to the end; till the conclusion.
And blunder on in business to the last. Pope.

Syn.
 -- At Last, At Length. These phrases both denote that some delayed
end or result has been reached. At length implies that a long period
was spent in so doing; as, after a voyage of more than three months,
we at Length arrived safe. At last commonly implies that something
has occurred (as interruptions, disappointments, etc.) which leads us
to emphasize the idea of having reached the end; as, in spite of
every obstacle, we have at last arrived.

LAST
Last, adv. Etym: [See Last, a.]

1. At a time or on an occasion which is the latest of all those
spoken of or which have occurred; the last time; as, I saw him last
in New York.

2. In conclusion; finally.lastly
Pleased with his idol, he commends, admires, Adores; and, last, the
thing adored desires. Dryden.

3. At a time next preceding the present time.
How long is't now since last yourself and I Were in a mask Shak.

LAST
Last, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lasted; p. pr. & vb. n. Lasting.] Etym:
[OE. lasten, As. læstan to perform, execute, follow, last, continue,
fr. last, l, trace, footstep, course; akin to G. leisten to perform,
Goth. laistjan to follow. See Last mold of the foot.]

1. To continue in time; to endure; to remain in existence.
[I] proffered me to be slave in all that she me would ordain while my
life lasted. Testament of Love.

2. To endure use, or continue in existence, without impairment or
exhaustion; as, this cloth lasts better than that; the fuel will last
through the winter.

LAST
Last, n. Etym: [AS. lasttrace, track, footstep; akin to D. leest a
last, G. leisten, Sw. läst, Dan. læst, Icel. leistr the foot below
the ankle, Goth. laists track, way; from a root signifying, to go.
Cf. Last, v. i., Learn, Delirium.]

Defn: A wooden block shaped like the human foot, on which boots and
shoes are formed.
The cobbler is not to go beyond his last. L'Estrange.
Darning last, a smooth, hard body, often egg-shaped, put into a
stocking to preserve its shape in darning.

LAST
Last, v. t.

Defn: To shape with a last; to fasten or fit to a last; to place
smoothly on a last; as, to last a boot.

LAST
Last, n. Etym: [As. hlæst, fr. hladan to lade; akin to OHG. hlast,
G., D., Dan., & Sw. last: cf. F. laste, last, a last, of German or
Dutch origin. See Lade.]

1. A load; a heavy burden; hence, a certain weight or measure,
generally estimated at 4,000 lbs., but varying for different articles
and in different countries. In England, a last of codfish, white
herrings, meal, or ashes, is twelve barrels; a last of corn, ten
quarters, or eighty bushels, in some parts of England, twenty-one
quarters; of gunpowder, twenty-four barrels, each containing 100 lbs;
of red herrings, twenty cades, or 20,000; of hides, twelve dozen; of
leather, twenty dickers; of pitch and tar, fourteen barrels; of wool,
twelve sacks; of flax or feathers, 1,700 lbs.

2. The burden of a ship; a cargo.

LASTAGE
Last"age n. Etym: [E. lestage ballasting, fr. lest ballast, or LL.
lastagium, lestagium. See Last a load.]

1. A duty exacted, in some fairs or markets, for the right to carry
things where one will. [Obs.]

2. A tax on wares sold by the last. [Obs.] Cowell.

3. The lading of a ship; also, ballast. Spelman.

4. Room for stowing goods, as in a ship.

LASTE
Last"e, obs. imp.

Defn: of Last, to endure. Chaucer.

LASTER
Last"er, n.

Defn: A workman whose business it is to shape boots or shoes, or
place leather smoothly, on lasts; a tool for stretching leather on a
last.

LASTERY
Last"er*y, n.

Defn: A red color.[Obs.] Spenser.

LASTING
Last"ing, a.

Defn: Existing or continuing a long while; enduring; as, a lasting
good or evil; a lasting color.

Syn.
 -- Durable; permanent; undecaying; perpetual; unending.
 -- Lasting, Permanent, Durable. Lasting commonly means merely
continuing in existence; permanent carries the idea of continuing in
the same state, position, or course; durable means lasting in spite
of agencies which tend to destroy.

LASTING
Last"ing, n.

1. Continuance; endurance. Locke.

2. A species of very durable woolen stuff, used for women's shoes;
everlasting.

3. The act or process of shaping on a last.

LASTING
Last"ing, adv.

Defn: In a lasting manner.

LASTINGLY
Last"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lasting manner.

LASTLY
Last"ly, adv.

1. In the last place; in conclusion.

2. at last; finally.

LAT
Lat, v. t.

Defn: To let; to allow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LATA; LATAH
La"ta, La"tah, n. [Malay.]

Defn: A convulsive tic or hysteric neurosis prevalent among Malays,
similar to or identical with miryachit and jumping disease, the
person affected performing various involuntary actions and making
rapid inarticulate ejaculations in imitation of the actions and words
of another person.

LATAKIA
Lat`a*ki"a, n. Etym: [Turk.]

Defn: A superior quality of Turkish smoking tobacco, so called from
the place where produced, the ancient Laodicea.

LATCH
Latch, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. lécher to lick (of German origin). Cf.
Lick.]

Defn: To smear; to anoint. [Obs.] Shak.

LATCH
Latch, n. Etym: [OE. lacche, fr. lacchen to seize, As. læccan.]

1. That which fastens or holds; a lace; a snare. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

2. A movable piece which holds anything in place by entering a notch
or cavity; specifically, the catch which holds a door or gate when
closed, though it be not bolted.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A latching.

4. A crossbow. [Obs.] Wright.

LATCH
Latch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Latched; p. pr. & vb. n. Latching.] Etym:
[OE.lacchen. See Latch. n.]

1. To catch so as to hold. [Obs.]
Those that remained threw darts at our men, and latching our darts,
sent them again at us. Golding.

2. To catch or fasten by means of a latch.
The door was only latched. Locke.

LATCHET
Latch"et, n. Etym: [OE. lachet, from an OF. dialect form of F. lacet
plaited string, lace dim. of lacs. See Lace.]

Defn: The string that fastens a shoe; a shoestring.

LATCHING
Latch"ing, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A loop or eye formed on the head rope of a bonnet, by which it
is attached to the foot of a sail; -- called also latch and lasket.
[Usually in pl.]

LATCHKEY
Latch"key`, n.

Defn: A key used to raise, or throw back, the latch of a door, esp. a
night latch.

LATCHSTRING
Latch"string`, n.

Defn: A string for raising the latch of a door by a person outside.
It is fastened to the latch and passed through a hole above it in the
door. To find the latchstring out, to meet with hospitality; to be
welcome. (Intrusion is prevented by drawing in the latchstring.)
[Colloq. U.S.]

LATE
Late, a. [Compar. Later, or latter (; superl. Latest.] Etym: [OE. lat
slow, slack, As.læt; akin to Os. lat, D. laat late, G. lass weary,
lazy, slack, Icel. latr, Sw. lat, Dan. lad, Goth. lats, and to E.
let, v. See Let to permit, and cf. Alas, Lassitude.]

1. Coming after the time when due, or after the usual or proper time;
not early; slow; tardy; long delayed; as, a late spring.

2. Far advanced toward the end or close; as, a late hour of the day;
a late period of life.

3. Existing or holding some position not long ago, but not now;
lately deceased, departed, or gone out of office; as, the late bishop
of London; the late administration.

4. Not long past; happening not long ago; recent; as, the late rains;
we have received late intelligence.

5. Continuing or doing until an advanced hour of the night; as, late
revels; a late watcher.

LATE
Late, adv. Etym: [AS. late. See Late, a.]

1. After the usual or proper time, or the time appointed; after
delay; as, he arrived late; -- opposed to early.

2. Not long ago; lately.

3. Far in the night, day, week, or other particular period; as, to
lie abed late; to sit up late at night. Of late, in time not long
past, or near the present; lately; as, the practice is of late
uncommon.
 -- Too late, after the proper or available time; when the time or
opportunity is past.

LATED
Lat"ed, a.

Defn: Belated; too late. [Obs.] Shak.

LATEEN
La*teen", a. (Naut.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a peculiar rig used in the Mediterranean
and adjacent waters, esp. on the northern coast of Africa. See below.
Lateen sail. Etym: [F. voile latine a sail in the shape of a right-
angled triangle; cf. It. & Sp. vela latina; properly Latin sail. See
Latin.] (Naut.) A triangular sail, extended by a long yard, which is
slung at about one fourth of its length from the lower end, to a low
mast, this end being brought down at the tack, while the other end is
elevated at an angle or about forty-five degrees; -- used in small
boats, feluccas, xebecs, etc., especially in the Mediterranean and
adjacent waters. Some lateen sails have also a boom on the lower
side.

LATELY
Late"ly, adv.

Defn: Not long ago; recently; as, he has lately arrived from Italy.

LATENCE
La"tence, n.

Defn: Latency. Coleridge.

LATENCY
La"ten*cy, n. Etym: [See Latent.]

Defn: The state or quality of being latent.
To simplify the discussion, I shall distinguish three degrees of this
latency. Sir W. Hamilton.

LATENESS
Late"ness, n.

Defn: The state, condition, or quality, of being late; as, the
lateness of his arrival; the lateness of the hour; the lateness of
the season.

LATENT
La"tent, a. Etym: [L. latens, -entis, p. pr. of latere to lie hid or
concealed; cf. Gr. lethargy: cf. F.latent.]

Defn: Not visible or apparent; hidden; springs of action.
The evils latent in the most promising contrivances are provided for
as they arise. Burke.
Latent buds (bot.), buds which remain undeveloped or dormant for a
long time, but may at length grow. Latent heat (Physics), that
quantity of heat which disappears or becomes concealed in a body
while producing some change in it other than rise of temperature, as
fusion, evaporation, or expansion, the quantity being constant for
each particular body and for each species of change.
 -- Latent period. (a) (Med.) The regular time in which a disease is
supposed to be existing without manifesting itself. (b) (Physiol.)
One of the phases in a simple muscular contraction, in which
invisible preparatory changes are taking place in the nerve and
muscle. (c) (Biol.) One of those periods or resting stages in the
development of the ovum, in which development is arrested prior to
renewed activity.

LATENTLY
La"tent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a secret or concealed manner; invisibly.

LATER
La"ter, n.; pl. Lateres. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A brick or tile. Knight.

LATER
Lat"er, a.

Defn: Compar. of Late, a. & adv.

LATERAD
Lat"er*ad, adv. Etym: [L. latus, lateris, side + ad to.] (Anat.)

Defn: Toward the side; away from the mesial plane; -- opposed to
mesiad.

LATERAL
Lat"er*al, a. Etym: [L. lateralis, fr. latus, lateris, side: cf.
F.latéral.]

1. Of or pertaining to the sides; as, the lateral walls of a house;
the lateral branches of a tree.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Lying at, or extending toward, the side; away from the mesial
plane; external; -- opposed to mesial.

3. Directed to the side; as, a lateral view of a thing. Lateral
cleavage (Crystallog.), cleavage parallel to the lateral planes.
 -- Lateral equation (Math.), an equation of the first degree. [Obs.]
-- Lateral line (Anat.), in fishes, a line of sensory organs along
either side of the body, often marked by a distinct line of color.
 -- Lateral pressure or stress (Mech.), a pressure or stress at right
angles to the length, as of a beam or bridge; -- distinguished from
longitudinal pressure or stress.
 -- Lateral strength (Mech.), strength which resists a tendency to
fracture arising from lateral pressure.
 -- Lateral system (Bridge Building), the system of horizontal braces
(as between two vertical trusses) by which lateral stiffness is
secured.

LATERALITY
Lat`er*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being lateral.

LATERALLY
Lat"er*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By the side; sidewise; toward, or from, the side.

LATERAN
Lat"er*an, n.

Defn: The church and palace of St. John Lateran, the church being the
cathedral church of Rome, and the highest in rank of all churches in
the Catholic world.

Note: The name is said to have been derived from that of the Laterani
family, who possessed a palace on or near the spot where the church
now stands. In this church several ecclesiastical councils, hence
called Lateran councils, have been held.

LATERED
Lat"ered, a.

Defn: Inclined to delay; dilatory. [Obs.] "When a man is too
latered." Chaucer.

LATERIFOLIOUS
Lat`er*i*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. latus, lateris, side + folium leaf:
cf. F. latérifolié.] (Bot.)

Defn: Growing from the stem by the side of a leaf; as, a
laterifolious flower.

LATERITE
Lat"er*ite, n. Etym: [L. later brick, tile: cf. F. latérite.] (Geol.)

Defn: An argillaceous sandstone, of a red color, and much seamed; --
found in India.

LATERITIC
Lat`er*it"ic, a.

Defn: consisting of, containing, or characterized by, laterite; as,
lateritic formations.

LATERITIC
Lat`er*it"ic, a.

Defn: Consisting of, containing, or characterized by, laterite; as,
lateritic formations.

LATERITIOUS
Lat"er*i"tious, a. Etym: [L.lateritius, fr. later a brick.]

Defn: Like bricks; of the color of red bricks. Lateritious sediment
(Med.), a sediment in urine resembling brick dust, observed after the
crises of fevers, and at the termination of gouty paroxysms. It
usually consists of uric acid or urates with some coloring matter.

LATES
La"tes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of large percoid fishes, of which one species (Lates
Niloticus) inhabits the Nile, and another (L. calcarifer

LATESCENCE
La*tes"cence, n.

Defn: A slight withdrawal from view or knowledge. Sir W. Hamilton.

LATESCENT
La*tes"cent, a. Etym: [L. latescens, -entis, p. pr. of latescere to
be concealed, fr. latere to be hid.]

Defn: Slightly withdrawn from view or knowledge; as, a latescent
meaning. Sir W. Hamilton.

LATEWAKE
Late"wake`, n.

Defn: See Lich wake, under Lich.

LATEWARD
Late"ward, a. & adv.

Defn: Somewhat late; backward. [Obs.] "Lateward lands." Holland.

LATEX
La"tex, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: A milky or colored juice in certain plants in cavities (called
latex cells or latex tubes). It contains the peculiar principles of
the plants, whether aromatic, bitter, or acid, and in many instances
yields caoutchouc upon coagulation.

LATH
Lath, n.; pl. Laths. Etym: [OE. laththe, latthe, latte, AS. lætta;
akin to D. lat, G. latte, OHG. latta; cf. W. llath a rod, staff,
yard. Cf. Lattice, Latten.]

Defn: A thin, narrow strip of wood, nailed to the rafters, studs, or
floor beams of a building, for the purpose of supporting the tiles,
plastering, etc. A corrugated metallic strip or plate is sometimes
used. Lath brick, a long, slender brick, used in making the floor on
which malt is placed in the drying kiln. Lath nail a slender nail for
fastening laths.

LATH
Lath, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lathed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lathing.]

Defn: To cover or line with laths.

LATHE
Lathe, n. Etym: [AS.læedh. Of. uncertain origin.]

Defn: Formerly, a part or division of a county among the Anglo-
Saxons. At present it consists of four or five hundreds, and is
confined to the county of Kent. [Written also lath.] Brande & C.

LATHE
Lathe, n. Etym: [OE. lathe a granary; akin to G. lade a chest, Icel.
hlaedha a storehouse, barn; but cf. also Icel. löedh a smith's lathe.
Senses 2 and 3 are perh. of the same origin as lathe a granary, the
original meaning being, a frame to hold something. If so, the word is
from an older form of E. lade to load. See Lade to load.]

1. A granary; a barn. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A machine for turning, that is, for shaping articles of wood,
metal, or other material, by causing them to revolve while acted upon
by a cutting tool.

3. The movable swing frame of a loom, carrying the reed for
separating the warp threads and beating up the weft; -- called also
lay and batten. Blanchard lathe, a lathe for turning irregular forms
after a given pattern, as lasts, gunstocks, and the like.
 -- Drill lathe, or Speed lathe, a small lathe which, from its high
speed, is adapted for drilling; a hand lathe.
 -- Engine lathe, a turning lathe in which the cutting tool has an
automatic feed; -- used chiefly for turning and boring metals,
cutting screws, etc.
 -- Foot lathe, a lathe which is driven by a treadle worked by the
foot.
 -- Geometric lathe. See under Geometric -- Hand lathe, a lathe
operated by hand; a power turning lathe without an automatic feed for
the tool.
 -- Slide lathe, an engine lathe.
 -- Throw lathe, a small lathe worked by one hand, while the cutting
tool is held in the other.

LATHER
Lath"er, n. Etym: [AS. leáedhor niter, in leáedhorwyrt soapwort; cf.
Icel. lau; perh. akin to E. lye.]

1. Foam or froth made by soap moistened with water.

2. Foam from profuse sweating, as of a horse.

LATHER
Lath"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lathered; p. pr. & vb. n. Lathering.]
Etym: [AS. leedhrian to lather, anoint. See Lather, n. ]

Defn: To spread over with lather; as, to lather the face.

LATHER
Lath"er, v. i.

Defn: To form lather, or a froth like lather; to accumulate foam from
profuse sweating, as a horse.

LATHER
Lath"er, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Leather.]

Defn: To beat severely with a thong, strap, or the like; to flog.
[Low]

LATHEREEVE; LATHREEVE
Lathe"reeve`, Lath"reeve`, n.

Defn: Formerly, the head officer of a lathe. See 1st Lathe.

LATHING
Lath"ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of covering with laths; laths, collectively;
a covering of laths.

LATH-SHAPED
Lath"-shaped`, a.

Defn: Having a slender elongated form, like a lath; -- said of the
feldspar of certain igneous rocks, as diabase, as seen in microscopic
sections.

LATHWORK
Lath"work`, n.

Defn: Same as Lathing.

LATHY
Lath"y, a.

Defn: Like a lath; long and slender.
A lathy horse, all legs and length. R. Browning.

LATIAN
La"tian, a.

Defn: Belonging, or relating, to Latium, a country of ancient Italy.
See Latin.

LATIBULIZE
La*tib"u*lize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Latibulized (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Latibulizing.] Etym: [L. latibulum hiding place, fr. latere to lie
hid.]

Defn: To retire into a den, or hole, and lie dormant in winter; to
retreat and lie hid. [R.] G. Shaw.

LATIBULUM
La*tib"u*lum, n; pl. Latibula. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A concealed hiding place; a burrow; a lair; a hole.

LATICIFEROUS
Lat`i*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. latex, laticis, a liquid + -ferous.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Containing the latex; -- applied to the tissue or tubular
vessels in which the latex of the plant is found.

LATICLAVE
Lat"i*clave, n. Etym: [L. laticlavus, laticlavium; latus broad +
clavus nail, a purple stripe on the tunica: cf. F. laticlave.] (Rom.
Antiq.)

Defn: A broad stripe of purple on the fore part of the tunic, worn by
senators in ancient Rome as an emblem of office.

LATICOSTATE
Lat`i*cos"tate, a. Etym: [L. latus broad + E. costate.]

Defn: Broad-ribbed.

LATIDENTATE
Lat`i*den"tate, a. Etym: [L. latus broad + E. dentate.]

Defn: Broad-toothed.

LATIFOLIATE; LATIFOLIOUS
Lat`i*fo"li*ate, Lat`i*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. latifolius; latus
broad + folium leaf: cf. F. latifolié.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having broad leaves.

LATIGO
La"ti*go, n. [Sp. látigo.]

Defn: A strap for tightening a saddle girth. [Western U. S. & Sp.
Amer.]

LATIGO HALTER
La"ti*go hal"ter.

Defn: A kind of halter usually made of raw hide.

LATIMER
Lat"i*mer, n. Etym: [OF. latinier, latimier, prop., one knowing
Latin.]

Defn: An interpreter. [Obs.] Coke.

LATIN
Lat"in, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. Latinus belonging to Latium, Latin, fr.
Latium a country of Italy, in which Rome was situated. Cf. Ladin,
Lateen sail, under Lateen.]

1. Of or pertaining to Latium, or to the Latins, a people of Latium;
Roman; as, the Latin language.

2. Of, pertaining to, or composed in, the language used by the Romans
or Latins; as, a Latin grammar; a Latin composition or idiom. Latin
Church (Eccl. Hist.), the Western or Roman Catholic Church, as
distinct from the Greek or Eastern Church.
 -- Latin cross. See Illust. 1 of Cross.
 -- Latin races, a designation sometimes loosely given to certain
nations, esp. the French, Spanish, and Italians, who speak languages
principally derived from Latin. Latin Union, an association of
states, originally comprising France, Belgium, Switzerland, and
Italy, which, in 1865, entered into a monetary agreement, providing
for an identity in the weight and fineness of the gold and silver
coins of those countries, and for the amounts of each kind of coinage
by each. Greece, Servia, Roumania, and Spain subsequently joined the
Union.

LATIN
Lat"in, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Latium; a Roman.

2. The language of the ancient Romans.

3. An exercise in schools, consisting in turning English into Latin.
[Obs.] Ascham.

4. (Eccl.)

Defn: A member of the Roman Catholic Church. (Dog Latin, barbarous
Latin; a jargon in imitation of Latin; as, the log Latin of
schoolboys.
 -- Late Latin, Low Latin, terms used indifferently to designate the
latest stages of the Latin language; low Latin (and, perhaps, late
Latin also), including the barbarous coinages from the French,
German, and other languages into a Latin form made after the Latin
had become a dead language for the people.
 -- Law Latin, that kind of late, or low, Latin, used in statutes and
legal instruments; -- often barbarous.

LATIN
Lat"in, v. t.

Defn: To write or speak in Latin; to turn or render into Latin.
[Obs.] Fuller.

LATINISM
Lat"in*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. latinisme.]

Defn: A Latin idiom; a mode of speech peculiar to Latin; also, a mode
of speech in another language, as English, formed on a Latin model.

Note: The term is also sometimes used by Biblical scholars to
designate a Latin word in Greek letters, or the Latin sense of a
Greek word in the Greek Testament.

LATINIST
Lat"in*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. latiniste.]

Defn: One skilled in Latin; a Latin scholar. Cowper.
He left school a good Latinist. Macaulay.

LATINISTIC
Lat`in*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, Latin; in the Latin style
or idiom. "Latinistic words." Fitzed. Hall.

LATINITASTER
La*tin"i*tas`ter, n. Etym: [Cf. Poetaster.]

Defn: One who has but a smattering of Latin. Walker.

LATINITY
La*tin"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. latinitas: cf. F. latinité.]

Defn: The Latin tongue, style, or idiom, or the use thereof;
specifically, purity of Latin style or idiom. "His eleLatinity."
Motley.

LATINIZATION
Lat`in*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of Latinizing, as a word, language, or
country.
The Germanization of Britain went far deeper than the Latinization of
France. M. Arnold.

LATINIZE
Lat"in*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Latinized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Latinizing.] Etym: [L. latinizare: cf. F.latiniser.]

1. To give Latin terminations or forms to, as to foreign words, in
writing Latin.

2. To bring under the power or influence of the Romans or Latins; to
affect with the usages of the Latins, especially in speech.
"Latinized races." Lowell.

3. To make like the Roman Catholic Church or diffuse its ideas in;
as, to Latinize the Church of England.

LATINIZE
Lat"in*ize, v. i.

Defn: To use words or phrases borrowed from the Latin. Dryden.

2. To come under the influence of the Romans, or of the Roman
Catholic Church.

LATINLY
Lat"in*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of the Latin language; in correct Latin. [Obs.]
Heylin.

LATION
La"tion, n. Etym: [L. latio, fr. latus borne. See Tolerate.]

Defn: Transportation; conveyance. [Obs.]

LATIROSTRAL; LATIROSTROUS
Lat`i*ros"tral, Lat`i*ros"trous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. latirostre. See
Latirostres.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a broad beak. Sir T. Browne.

LATIROSTRES
Lat`i*ros"tres, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. latus broad + rostrum
beak.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The broad-billed singing birds, such as the swallows, and their
allies.

LATISH
Lat"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat late. [Colloq.]

LATISTERNAL
Lat`i*ster"nal, a. Etym: [L. latus broad + E. sternal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a broad breastbone, or sternum; -- said of anthropoid
apes.

LATITANCY
Lat"i*tan*cy, n. Etym: [See Latitant.]

Defn: Act or state of lying hid, or lurking. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

LATITANT
Lat"i*tant, a. Etym: [L. latitans, pr. of latitare to lie hid, to
lurk, v. intens. fr. latere to be hid: cf. F. latitant.]

Defn: Lying hid; concealed; latent. [R.]

LATITAT
Lat"i*tat, n. Etym: [L., he lies hid.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A writ based upon the presumption that the person summoned was
hiding. Blackstone.

LATITATION
Lat`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. latitatio.]

Defn: A lying in concealment; hiding. [Obs.]

LATITUDE
Lat"i*tude, n. Etym: [F. latitude, L. latitudo, fr. latus broad,
wide, for older stlatus; perh. akin to E. strew.]

1. Extent from side to side, or distance sidewise from a given point
or line; breadth; width.
Provided the length do not exceed the latitude above one third part.
Sir H. Wotton.

2. Room; space; freedom from confinement or restraint; hence,
looseness; laxity; independence.
In human actions there are no degrees and precise natural limits
described, but a latitude is indulged. Jer. Taylor.

3. Extent or breadth of signification, application, etc.; extent of
deviation from a standard, as truth, style, etc.
No discreet man will believe Augustine's miracles, in the latitude of
monkish relations. Fuller.

4. Extent; size; amplitude; scope.
I pretend not to treat of them in their full latitude. Locke.

5. (Geog.)

Defn: Distance north or south of the equator, measured on a meridian.

6. (Astron.)

Defn: The angular distance of a heavenly body from the ecliptic.
Ascending latitude, Circle of latitude, Geographical latitude, etc.
See under Ascending. Circle, etc.
 -- High latitude, that part of the earth's surface near either pole,
esp. that part within either the arctic or the antarctic circle.
 -- Low latitude, that part of the earth's surface which is near the
equator.

LATITUDINAL
Lat`i*tu"di*nal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to latitude; in the direction of latitude.

LATITUDINARIAN
Lat`i*tu`di*na"ri*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. latitudinaire.]

1. Not restrained; not confined by precise limits.

2. Indifferent to a strict application of any standard of belief or
opinion; hence, deviating more or less widely from such standard; lax
in doctrine; as, latitudinarian divines; latitudinarian theology.
Latitudinarian sentiments upon religious subjects. Allibone.

3. Lax in moral or religious principles.

LATITUDINARIAN
Lat`i*tu`di*na"ri*an, n.

1. One who is moderate in his notions, or not restrained by precise
settled limits in opinion; one who indulges freedom in thinking.

2. (Eng. Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A member of the Church of England, in the time of Charles II.,
who adopted more liberal notions in respect to the authority,
government, and doctrines of the church than generally prevailed.
They were called "men of latitude;" and upon this, men of narrow
thoughts fastened upon them the name of latitudinarians. Bp. Burnet.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: One who departs in opinion from the strict principles of
orthodoxy.

LATITUDINARIANISM
Lat`i*tu`di*na"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: A latitudinarian system or condition; freedom of opinion in
matters pertaining to religious belief.
Fierce sectarianism bred fierce latitudinarianism. De Quincey.
He [Ammonius Saccas] plunged into the wildest latitudinarianism of
opinion. J. S. Harford.

LATITUDINOUS
Lat`i*tu"di*nous, a.

Defn: Having latitude, or wide extent.

LATON; LATOUN
Lat"on, Lat"oun, n.

Defn: Latten, 1. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LATRANT
La"trant, a. Etym: [L. latrans, p. pr. of latrare. See Latrate.]

Defn: Barking. [Obs.] Tickell.

LATRATE
La"trate, v. i. Etym: [L. latratus, p. p. of latrare to bark.]

Defn: To bark as a dog. [Obs.]

LATRATION
La*tra"tion, n.

Defn: A barking. [Obs.]

LATREUTICAL
La*treu"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Acting as a hired servant; serving; ministering; assisting. [Obs.]

2. Of or pertaining to latria. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

LATRIA
La*tri"a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: The highest kind of worship, or that paid to God; --
distinguished by the Roman Catholics from dulia, or the inferior
worship paid to saints.

LATRINE
La*trine", n. Etym: [L. latrina: cf. F. latrines.]

Defn: A privy, or water-closet, esp. in a camp, hospital, etc.

LATROCINY
Lat"ro*cin`y, n. Etym: [L. latrocinium. Cf. Larceny.]

Defn: Theft; larceny. [Obs.]

LATTEN
Lat"ten, n. Etym: [OE. latoun, laton, OF. laton, F. laiton, prob. fr.
OF. late lath, F. latte; -- because made in thin plates; cf. It.
latta a sheet of tinned iron, tin plate. F. latte is of German
origin. See Lath a thin board.]

1. A kind of brass hammered into thin sheets, formerly much used for
making church utensils, as candlesticks, crosses, etc.; -- called
also latten brass.
He had a cross of latoun full of stones. Chaucer.

2. Sheet tin; iron plate, covered with tin; also, any metal in thin
sheets; as, gold latten. Black latten, brass in milled sheets,
composed of copper and zinc, used by braziers, and for drawing into
wire.
 -- Roll latten, latten polished on both sides ready for use.
 -- Shaven latten, a thinner kind than black latten.
 -- White latten, a mixture of brass and tin.

LATTER
Lat"ter, a. Etym: [OE. later, lætter, compar. of lat late. See Late,
and cf. Later.]

1. Later; more recent; coming or happening after something else; --
opposed to former; as, the former and latter rain.

2. Of two things, the one mentioned second.
The difference between reason and revelation, and in what sense the
latter is superior. I. Watts.

3. Recent; modern.
Hath not navigation discovered in these latter ages, whole nations at
the bay of Soldania Locke.

4. Last; latest; final. [R.] "My latter gasp." Shak. Latter harvest,
the last part of the harvest.
 -- Latter spring, the last part of the spring of the year. Shak.

LATTERDAY
Lat"ter*day`, a.

Defn: Belonging to present times or those recent by comparison.

LATTER-DAY SAINT
Lat"ter-day` saint".

Defn: A Mormon; -- the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
being the name assumed by the whole body of Mormons.

LATTERKIN
Lat"ter*kin, n.

Defn: A pointed wooden tool used in glazing leaden lattice.

LATTERLY
Lat"ter*ly, adv.

Defn: Lately; of late; recently; at a later, as distinguished from a
former, period.
Latterly Milton was short and thick. Richardson.

LATTERMATH
Lat"ter*math, n. Etym: [Cf. Aftermath.]

Defn: The latter, or second, mowing; the aftermath.

LATTICE
Lat"tice, n. Etym: [OE. latis, F. lattis lathwork, fr. latte lath.
See Latten, 1st Lath.]

1. Any work of wood or metal, made by crossing laths, or thin strips,
and forming a network; as, the lattice of a window; -- called also
latticework.
The mother of Sisera looked out at a window, and cried through the
lattice. Judg. v. 28.

2. (Her.)

Defn: The representation of a piece of latticework used as a bearing,
the bands being vertical and horizontal. Lattice bridge, a bridge
supported by lattice girders, or latticework trusses.
 -- Lattice girder (Arch.), a girder of which the wed consists of
diagonal pieces crossing each other in the manner of latticework.
 -- Lattice plant (Bot.), an aquatic plant of Madagascar (Ouvirandra
fenestralis), whose leaves have interstices between their ribs and
cross veins, so as to resemble latticework. A second species is O.
Berneriana. The genus is merged in Aponogeton by recent authors.

LATTICE
Lat"tice, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Latticed; p. pr. & vb. n. Latticing.]

1. To make a lattice of; as, to lattice timbers.

2. To close, as an opening, with latticework; to furnish with a
lattice; as, to lattice a window. To lattice up, to cover or inclose
with a lattice.
Therein it seemeth he [Alexander] hath latticed up Cæsar. Sir T.
North.

LATTICEWORK
Lat"tice*work`, n.

Defn: Same as Lattice, n., 1.

LATTICING
Lat"ti*cing, n.

1. The act or process of making a lattice of, or of fitting a lattice
to.

2. (Bridge Building)

Defn: A system of bars crossing in the middle to form braces between
principal longitudinal members, as of a strut.

LATUS RECTUM
La"tus rec"tum. Etym: [L., the right side.] (Conic Sections)

Defn: The line drawn through a focus of a conic section parallel to
the directrix and terminated both ways by the curve. It is the
parameter of the principal axis. See Focus, and Parameter.

LAUD
Laud, n. Etym: [L. laus, laudis. See Laud, v. i.]

1. High commendation; praise; honor; exaltation; glory. "Laud be to
God." Shak.
So do well and thou shalt have laud of the same. Tyndals.

2. A part of divine worship, consisting chiefly of praise; -- usually
in the pl.

Note: In the Roman Catholic Church, the prayers used at daybreak,
between those of matins and prime, are called lauds.

3. Music or singing in honor of any one.

LAUD
Laud, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lauded; p. pr. & vb. n. Lauding.] Etym:
[L.laudare, fr. laus, laudis, praise. Cf. Allow.]

Defn: To praise in words alone, or with words and singing; to
celebrate; to extol.
With all the company of heaven, we laud and magnify thy glorious
name. Book of Common Prayer.

LAUDABILITY
Laud`a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. laudabilitas.]

Defn: Laudableness; praiseworthiness.

LAUDABLE
Laud"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. laudabilis: cf. OE. laudable. See Laud, v.
i.]

1. Worthy of being lauded; praiseworthy; commendable; as, laudable
motives; laudable actions; laudable ambition.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Healthy; salubrious; normal; having a disposition to promote
healing; not noxious; as, laudable juices of the body; laudable pus.
Arbuthnot.

LAUDABLENESS
Laud"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being laudable; praiseworthiness;
commendableness.

LAUDABLY
Laud"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a laudable manner.

LAUDANINE
Lau"da*nine, n. Etym: [From Laudanum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white organic base, resembling morphine, and obtained from
certain varieties of opium.

LAUDANUM
Lau"da*num, n. Etym: [Orig. the same wort as ladanum, ladbdanum: cf.
F. laudanum, It. laudano, ladano. See Ladanum.]

Defn: Tincture of opium, used for various medical purposes.

Note: A fluid ounce of American laudanum should contain the soluble
matter of one tenth of an ounce avoirdupois of powdered opium with
equal parts of alcohol and water. English laudanum should have ten
grains less of opium in the fluid ounce. U. S. Disp. Dutchman's
laudanum (Bot.) See under Dutchman.

LAUDATION
Lau*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. laudatio: cf. OE. taudation. See Land, v.
t.]

Defn: The act of lauding; praise; high commendation.

LAUDATIVE
Laud"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. laudativus laudatory: cf. F. laudatif.]

Defn: Laudatory.

LAUDATIVE
Laud"a*tive, n.

Defn: A panegyric; a eulogy. [Obs.] Bacon.

LAUDATOR
Lau*da"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who lauds.

2. (Law)

Defn: An arbitrator. [Obs.] Cowell.

LAUDATORY
Laud"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. laudatorius: cf. OF. laudatoire.]

Defn: Of or pertaining praise, or to the expression of praise; as,
laudatory verses; the laudatory powers of Dryden. Sir J. Stephen.

LAUDER
Laud"er, n.

Defn: One who lauds.

LAUGH
Laugh, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Laughed; p. pr. & vb. n. Laughing.] Etym:
[OE. laughen, laghen, lauhen, AS. hlehhan, hlihhan, hlyhhan,
hliehhan; akin to OS. hlahan, D. & G.lachen, OHG. hlahhan, lahhan,
lahh, Icel. hlæja. Dan. lee, Sw. le, Goth. hlahjan; perh. of
imitative origin.]

1. To show mirth, satisfaction, or derision, by peculiar movement of
the muscles of the face, particularly of the mouth, causing a
lighting up of the face and eyes, and usually accompanied by the
emission of explosive or chuckling sounds from the chest and throat;
to indulge in laughter.
Queen Hecuba laughed that her eyes ran o'er. Shak.
He laugheth that winneth. Heywood's Prov.

2. Fig.: To be or appear gay, cheerful, pleasant, mirthful, lively,
or brilliant; to sparkle; to sport.
Then laughs the childish year, with flowerets crowned. Dryden.
In Folly's cup still laughs the bubble Joy. Pope.
To laugh at, to make an object of laughter or ridicule; to make fun
of; to deride.
No wit to flatter left of all his store, No fool to laugh at, which
he valued more. Pope.
-- To laugh in the sleeve, to laugh secretly, or so as not to be
observed, especially while apparently preserving a grave or serious
demeanor toward the person or persons laughed at.
 -- To laugh out, to laugh in spite of some restraining influence; to
laugh aloud.
 -- To laugh out of the other corner (or side) of the mouth, to weep
or cry; to feel regret, vexation, or disappointment after hilarity or
exaltation. [Slang]

LAUGH
Laugh, v. t.

1. To affect or influence by means of laughter or ridicule.
Will you laugh me asleep, for I am very heavy Shak.
I shall laugh myself to death. Shak.

2. To express by, or utter with, laughter; -- with out.
From his deep chest laughs out a loud applause. Shak.
To laugh away. (a) To drive away by laughter; as, to laugh away
regret. (b) To waste in hilarity. "Pompey doth this day laugh away
his fortune." Shak.
 -- To laugh down. (a) To cause to cease or desist by laughter; as,
to laugh down a speaker. (b) To cause to be given up on account of
ridicule; as, to laugh down a reform.
 -- To laugh one out of, to cause one by laughter or ridicule to
abandon or give up; as, to laugh one out of a plan or purpose.
 -- To laugh to scorn, to deride; to treat with mockery, contempt,
and scorn; to despise.

LAUGH
Laugh, n.

Defn: An expression of mirth peculiar to the human species; the sound
heard in laughing; laughter. See Laugh, v. i.
And the loud laugh that spoke the vacant mind. Goldsmith.
That man is a bad man who has not within him the power of a hearty
laugh. F. W. Robertson.

LAUGHABLE
Laugh"a*ble, a.

Defn: Fitted to excite laughter; as, a laughable story; a laughable
scene.

Syn.
 -- Droll; ludicrous; mirthful; comical. See Droll, and Ludicrous.
 -- Laugh"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Laugh"a*bly, adv.

LAUGHER
Laugh"er, n.

1. One who laughs.

2. A variety of the domestic pigeon.

LAUGHING
Laugh"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Laugh, v. i. Laughing falcon (Zoöl.), a South American
hawk (Herpetotheres cachinnans); -- so called from its notes, which
resemble a shrill laughing.
 -- Laughing gas (Chem.), hyponitrous oxide, or protoxide of
nitrogen; -- so called from the exhilaration and laughing which it
sometimes produces when inhaled. It is much used as an anæsthetic
agent.
 -- Laughing goose (Zoöl.), the European white-fronted goose.
 -- Laughing gull. (Zoöl.) (a) A common European gull (Xema
ridibundus); -- called also pewit, black cap, red-legged gull, and
sea crow. (b) An American gull (Larus atricilla). In summer the head
is nearly black, the back slate color, and the five outer primaries
black.
 -- Laughing hyena (Zoöl.), the spotted hyena. See Hyena.
 -- Laughing jackass (Zoöl.), the great brown kingfisher (Dacelo
gigas), of Australia; -- called also giant kingfisher, and gogobera.
 -- Laughing owl (Zoöl.), a peculiar owl (Sceloglaux albifacies) of
New Zealand, said to be on the verge of extinction. The name alludes
to its notes.

LAUGHINGLY
Laugh"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With laughter or merriment.

LAUGHINGSTOCK
Laugh"ing*stock`, n.

Defn: An object of ridicule; a butt of sport. Shak.
When he talked, he talked nonsense, and made himself the
laughingstock of his hearers. Macaulay.

LAUGHSOME
Laugh"some, a.

Defn: Exciting laughter; also, addicted to laughter; merry. [R.]

LAUGHTER
Laugh"ter, n. Etym: [AS. hleahtor; akin to OHG. hlahtar, G.
gelächter, Icel. hlatr, Dan. latter. See Laugh, v. i. ]

Defn: A movement (usually involuntary) of the muscles of the face,
particularly of the lips, with a peculiar expression of the eyes,
indicating merriment, satisfaction, or derision, and usually attended
by a sonorous and interrupted expulsion of air from the lungs. See
Laugh, v. i.
The act of laughter, which is a sweet contraction of the muscles of
the face, and a pleasant agitation of the vocal organs, is not
merely, or totally within the jurisdiction of ourselves. Sir T.
Browne.
Archly the maiden smiled, and with eyes overrunning with laughter.
Longfellow.

LAUGHTERLESS
Laugh"ter*less, a.

Defn: Not laughing; without laughter.

LAUGHWORTHY
Laugh"wor`thy, a.

Defn: Deserving to be laughed at. [R.] B. Jonson.

LAUMONTITE
Lau"mont*ite, n. Etym: [From Dr. Laumont, the discoverer.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral, of a white color and vitreous luster. It is a
hydrous silicate of alumina and lime. Exposed to the air, it loses
water, becomes opaque, and crumbles. [Written also laumonite.]

LAUNCE
Launce, n.

Defn: A lance. [Obs.]

LAUNCE
Launce, n. Etym: [It. lance, L. lanx, lancis, plate, scale of a
balance. Cf. Balance.]

Defn: A balance. [Obs.]
Fortune all in equal launce doth sway. Spenser.

LAUNCE
Launce, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lant, the fish.

LAUNCEGAYE
Launce"gaye`, n.

Defn: See Langegaye. [Obs.]

LAUNCH
Launch, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Launched; p. pr. & vb. n. Launching.]
Etym: [OE. launchen to throw as a lance, OF. lanchier, another form
of lancier, F. lancer, fr. lance lance. See Lance.] [Written also
lanch.]

1. To throw, as a lance or dart; to hurl; to let fly.

2. To strike with, or as with, a lance; to pierce. [Obs.]
Launch your hearts with lamentable wounds. Spenser.

3. To cause to move or slide from the land into the water; to set
afloat; as, to launch a ship.
With stays and cordage last he rigged the ship, And rolled on levers,
launched her in the deep. Pope.

4. To send out; to start (one) on a career; to set going; to give a
start to (something); to put in operation; as, to launch a son in the
world; to launch a business project or enterprise.
All art is used to sink episcopacy, and launch presbytery in England.
Eikon Basilike.

LAUNCH
Launch, v. i.

Defn: To move with force and swiftness like a sliding from the stocks
into the water; to plunge; to make a beginning; as, to launch into
the current of a stream; to launch into an argument or discussion; to
launch into lavish expenditures; -- often with out.
Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught. Luke
v. 4.
He [Spenser] launches out into very flowery paths. Prior.

LAUNCH
Launch, n.

1. The act of launching.

2. The movement of a vessel from land into the water; especially, the
sliding on ways from the stocks on which it is built.

3. Etym: [Cf. Sp. lancha.] (Naut.)

Defn: The boat of the largest size belonging to a ship of war; also,
an open boat of any size driven by steam, naphtha, electricity, or
the like. Launching ways. (Naut.) See Way, n. (Naut.).

LAUND
Laund (lalnd), n. Etym: [See Lawn of grass.]

Defn: A plain sprinkled with trees or underbrush; a glade. [Obs.]
In a laund upon an hill of flowers. Chaucer.
Through this laund anon the deer will come. Shak.

LAUNDER
Laun"der, n. Etym: [Contracted fr. OE. lavender, F. lavandière, LL.
lavandena, from L. lavare to wash. See Lave.]

1. A washerwoman. [Obs.]

2. (Mining)

Defn: A trough used by miners to receive the powdered ore from the
box where it is beaten, or for carrying water to the stamps, or other
apparatus, for comminuting, or sorting, the ore.

LAUNDER
Laun"der, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Laundered; p. pr. & vb. n. Laundering.]

1. To wash, as clothes; to wash, and to smooth with a flatiron or
mangle; to wash and iron; as, to launder shirts.

2. To lave; to wet. [Obs.] Shak.

LAUNDERER
Laun"der*er, n.

Defn: One who follows the business of laundering.

LAUNDERING
Laun"der*ing, n.

Defn: The act, or occupation, of one who launders; washing and
ironing.

LAUNDRESS
Laun"dress, n.

Defn: A woman whose employment is laundering.

LAUNDRESS
Laun"dress, v. i.

Defn: To act as a laundress.[Obs.]

LAUNDRY
Laun"dry, n.; pl. Laundries. Etym: [OE. lavendrie, OF. lavanderie.
See Launder.]

1. A laundering; a washing.

2. A place or room where laundering is done.

LAUNDRYMAN
Laun"dry*man, n.; pl. Laundrymen (.

Defn: A man who follows the business of laundering.

LAURA
Lau"ra, n. Etym: [LL., fr. Gr. ( (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A number of hermitages or cells in the same neighborhood
occupied by anchorites who were under the same superior. C. Kingsley.

LAURACEOUS
Lau*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [From Laurus.] (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, a natural order (Lauraceæ) of
trees and shrubs having aromatic bark and foliage, and including the
laurel, sassafras, cinnamon tree, true camphor tree, etc.

LAURATE
Lau"rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of lauric acid.

LAUREATE
Lau"re*ate, a. Etym: [L. laureatus, fr. laurea laurel tree, fr.
laureus of laurel, fr. laurus laurel: cf. F. lauréat. Cf. Laurel.]

Defn: Crowned, or decked, with laurel. Chaucer.
To strew the laureate hearse where Lycid lies. Milton.
Soft on her lap her laureate son reclines. Pope.
Poet laureate. (b) One who received an honorable degree in grammar,
including poetry and rhetoric, at the English universities; -- so
called as being presented with a wreath of laurel. [Obs.] (b)
Formerly, an officer of the king's household, whose business was to
compose an ode annually for the king's birthday, and other suitable
occasions; now, a poet officially distinguished by such honorary
title, the office being a sinecure. It is said this title was first
given in the time of Edward IV. [Eng.]

LAUREATE
Lau"re*ate, n.

Defn: One crowned with laurel; a poet laureate. "A learned laureate."
Cleveland.

LAUREATE
Lau"re*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Laureated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Laureating.]

Defn: To honor with a wreath of laurel, as formerly was done in
bestowing a degree at the English universities.

LAUREATESHIP
Lau"re*ate*ship, n.

Defn: State, or office, of a laureate.

LAUREATION
Lau`re*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lauréation.]

Defn: The act of crowning with laurel; the act of conferring an
academic degree, or honorary title.

LAUREL
Lau"rel, n. Etym: [OE. lorel, laurer, lorer, OF. lorier, laurier, F.
laurier, (assumed) LL. Laurarius, fr. L. laurus.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An evergreen shrub, of the genus Laurus (L. nobilis), having
aromatic leaves of a lanceolate shape, with clusters of small,
yellowish white flowers in their axils; -- called also sweet bay.

Note: The fruit is a purple berry. It is found about the
Mediterranean, and was early used by the ancient Greeks to crown the
victor in the games of Apollo. At a later period, academic honors
were indicated by a crown of laurel, with the fruit. The leaves and
tree yield an aromatic oil, used to flavor the bay water of commerce.

Note: The name is extended to other plants which in some respect
resemble the true laurel. See Phrases, below.

2. A crown of laurel; hence, honor; distinction; fame; -- especially
in the plural; as, to win laurels.

3. An English gold coin made in 1619, and so called because the
king's head on it was crowned with laurel. Laurel water, water
distilled from the fresh leaves of the cherry laurel, and containing
prussic acid and other products carried over in the process. American
laurel, or Mountain laurel, Kalmia latifolia. See under Mountain.
 -- California laurel, Umbellularia Californica.
 -- Cherry laurel (in England called laurel). See under Cherry.
 -- Great laurel, the rosebay (Rhododendron maximum).
 -- Ground laurel, trailing arbutus.
 -- New Zealand laurel, Laurelia Novæ Zelandiæ.
 -- Portugal laurel, the Prunus Lusitanica.
 -- Rose laurel, the oleander. See Oleander.
 -- Sheep laurel, a poisonous shrub, Kalmia angustifolia, smaller
than the mountain laurel, and with smaller and redder flowers.
 -- Spurge laurel, Daphne Laureola.
 -- West Indian laurel, Prunus occidentalis.

LAURELED
Lau"reled, a.

Defn: Crowned with laurel, or with a laurel wreath; laureate.
[Written also laurelled.]

LAURENTIAN
Lau*ren"tian, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or near, the St. Lawrence River; as, the
Laurentian hills. Laurentian period (Geol.), the lower of the two
divisions of the Archæan age; -- called also the Laurentian.

LAURER
Lau"rer, n.

Defn: Laurel. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAURESTINE
Lau"res*tine, n. Etym: [NL. lautus tinus, fr. L. laurus the laurel +
tinus laurestine. See Laurel.] (Bot.)

Defn: The Viburnum Tinus, an evergreen shrub or tree of the south of
Europe, which flowers during the winter mouths. [Written also
laurustine and laurestina.]

LAURIC
Lau"ric, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the European bay or laurel
(Laurus nobilis). Lauric acid (Chem.), a white, crystalline
substance, C12H24O2, resembling palmitic acid, and obtained from the
fruit of the bay tree, and other sources.

LAURIFEROUS
Lau*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. laurifer; laurus + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Producing, or bringing, laurel.

LAURIN
Lau"rin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. laurine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance extracted from the fruit of the
bay (Laurus nobilis), and consisting of a complex mixture of glycerin
ethers of several organic acids.

LAURINOL
Lau"ri*nol, n. Etym: [Laurin + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: Ordinary camphor; -- so called in allusion to the family name
(Lauraceæ) of the camphor trees. See Camphor.

LAURIOL
Lau"ri*ol, n.

Defn: Spurge laurel. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAURITE
Lau"rite, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Min.)

Defn: A rare sulphide of osmium and ruthenium found with platinum in
Borneo and Oregon.

LAURONE
Lau"rone, n. Etym: [Lauric + -one.] (Chem.)

Defn: The ketone of lauric acid.

LAURUS
Lau"rus, n. Etym: [L., laurel.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees including, according to modern authors, only
the true laurel (Laurus nobilis), and the larger L. Canariensis of
Madeira and the Canary Islands. Formerly the sassafras, the camphor
tree, the cinnamon tree, and several other aromatic trees and shrubs,
were also referred to the genus Laurus.

LAUS
Laus, a.

Defn: Loose. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAUTVERSCHIEBUNG
Laut"ver*schie`bung, n.; pl. -schiebungen. [G.; laut sound +
verschiebung shifting.] (Philol.)
 (a) The regular changes which the primitive Indo-European stops, or
mute consonants, underwent in the Teutonic languages, probably as
early as the 3d century b. c. , often called the first
Lautverschiebung, sound shifting, or consonant shifting. (b) A
somewhat similar set of changes taking place in the High German
dialects (less fully in modern literary German) from the 6th to the
8th century, known as the second Lautverschiebung, the result of
which form the striking differences between High German and The Low
German Languages. The statement of these changes is commonly regarded
as forming part of Grimm's law, because included in it as originally
framed.

LAVA
La"va, n. Etym: [It. lava lava, orig. in Naples, a torrent of rain
overflowing the streets, fr. It. & L. lavare to wash. See Lave.]

Defn: The melted rock ejected by a volcano from its top or fissured
sides. It flows out in streams sometimes miles in length. It also
issues from fissures in the earth's surface, and forms beds covering
many square miles, as in the Northwestern United States.

Note: Lavas are classed, according to their structure, as scoriaceous
or cellular, glassy, stony, etc., and according to the material of
which they consist, as doleritic, trachytic, etc. Lava millstone, a
hard and coarse basaltic millstone from the neighborhood of the
Rhine.
 -- Lava ware, a kind of cheap pottery made of iron slag cast into
tiles, urns, table tops, etc., resembling lava in appearance.

LA VALLIERE; LAVALLIERE
La val`liere", or  La`val`liere", n.

Defn: A neck ornament consisting of a chain and single pendant, or
drop.

LAVARET
Lav"a*ret, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European whitefish (Coregonus laveretus), found in the
mountain lakes of Sweden, Germany, and Switzerland.

LAVATIC
La*vat"ic, a.

Defn: Like lava, or composed of lava; lavic.

LAVATION
La*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. lavatio: cf. OF. lavation.]

Defn: A washing or cleansing. [Obs. or R.]

LAVATORY
Lav"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Washing, or cleansing by washing.

LAVATORY
Lav"a*to*ry, n.; pl. Lavatories. Etym: [L. lavatorium: cf. lavatoire.
See Lave to wash, and cf. Laver.]

1. A place for washing.

2. A basin or other vessel for washing in.

3. A wash or lotion for a diseased part.

4. A place where gold is obtained by washing.

LAVATURE
Lav"a*ture, n.

Defn: A wash or lotion. [Obs.]

LAVE
Lave, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Laved; p. pr. & vb. n. Laving.] Etym: [F.
laver, L. lavare, akin to luere to wash, Gr. Ablution, Deluge,
Lavender, Lava, Lotion.]

Defn: To wash; to bathe; as, to lave a bruise.
His feet the foremost breakers lave. Byron.

LAVE
Lave, v. i.

Defn: To bathe; to wash one's self.
In her chaste current oft the goddess laves. Pope.

LAVE
Lave, v. t. Etym: [OE. laven. See Lavish.]

Defn: To lade, dip, or pour out. [Obs.] Dryden.

LAVE
Lave, n. Etym: [AS. laf the remainder, what is left. Leave.]

Defn: The remainder; others. [Scot.] Bp. Hall.

LAVE-EARED
Lave"-eared`, a. Etym: [Cf. W. llaf that extends round, llipa
flaccid, flapping, G. lapp flabby, lappohr flap ear.]

Defn: Having large, pendent ears. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

LAVEER
La*veer", v. i. Etym: [D. laveren.] (Naut.)

Defn: To beat against the wind; to tack. [Obs.] Dryden.

LAVEMENT
Lave"ment, n. Etym: [F. lavement, fr. laver to wash.]

Defn: A washing or bathing; also, a clyster.

LAVENDER
Lav"en*der, n. Etym: [OE. lavendre, F. lavande, It. lavanda lavender,
a washing, fr. L. lavare to wash; cf. It. lsavendola, LL. lavendula.
So called because it was used in bathing and washing. See Lave. to
wash, and cf. Lavender.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An aromatic plant of the genus Lavandula (L. vera), common in
the south of Europe. It yields and oil used in medicine and
perfumery. The Spike lavender (L. Spica) yields a coarser oil (oil of
spike), used in the arts.

2. The pale, purplish color of lavender flowers, paler and more
delicate than lilac. Lavender cotton (Bot.), a low, twiggy, aromatic
shrub (Santolina Chamæcyparissus) of the Mediterranean region,
formerly used as a vermifuge, etc., and still used to keep moths from
wardrobes. Also called ground cypress.
 -- Lavender water, a perfume composed of alcohol, essential oil of
lavender, essential oil of bergamot, and essence of ambergris.
 -- Sea lavender. (Bot.) See Marsh rosemary.
 -- To lay in lavender. (a) To lay away, as clothing, with sprigs of
lavender. (b) To pawn. [Obs.]

LAVER
Lav"er, n. Etym: [OE. lavour, F. lavoir, L. lavatorium a washing
place. See Lavatory.]

1. A vessel for washing; a large basin.

2. (Script. Hist.)
(a) A large brazen vessel placed in the court of the Jewish
tabernacle where the officiating priests washed their hands and feet.
(b) One of several vessels in Solomon's Temple in which the offerings
for burnt sacrifices were washed.

3. That which washes or cleanses. J. H. Newman.

LAVER
Lav"er, n. Etym: [From Lave to wash.]

Defn: One who laves; a washer. [Obs.]

LAVER
La"ver, n.

Defn: The fronds of certain marine algæ used as food, and for making
a sauce called laver sauce. Green laver is the Ulva latissima; purlpe
laver, Porphyra laciniata and P. vulgaris. It is prepared by stewing,
either alone or with other vegetables, and with various condiments; -
- called also sloke, or sloakan. Mountain laver (Bot.), a reddish
gelatinous alga of the genus Palmella, found on the sides of
mountains

LAVEROCK
La"ver*ock, n. Etym: [See Lark the bird.]

Defn: The lark. [Old Eng. & Scot.] [Written also lavrock.] Gower.

LAVIC
La"vic, a.

Defn: See Lavatic.

LAVISH
Lav"ish, a. Etym: [Akin to E. lave to lade out; cf. AS. gelafian to
refresh, G. laben.]

1. Expending or bestowing profusely; profuse; prodigal; as, lavish of
money; lavish of praise.

2. Superabundant; excessive; as, lavish spirits.
Let her have needful, but not lavish, means. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Profuse; prodigal; wasteful; extravagant; exuberant; immoderate.
See Profuse.

LAVISH
Lav"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lavished; p. pr. & vb. n. Lavishing.]

Defn: To expend or bestow with profusion; to use with prodigality; to
squander; as, to lavish money or praise.

LAVISHER
Lav"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who lavishes.

LAVISHLY
Lav"ish*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lavish manner.

LAVISHMENT
Lav"ish*ment, n.

Defn: The act of lavishing.

LAVISHNESS
Lav"ish*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being lavish.

LAVOESIUM
La*voe"si*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Lavoisier, the celebrated French
chemist.] (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed new metallic element. It is said to have been
discovered in pyrites, and some other minerals, and to be of a
silver-white color, and malleable.

LAVOLT; LAVOLTA
La*volt", La*vol"ta, n. Etym: [It.la volta the turn, turning, whirl.
Cf. Volt of a horse, Volta.]

Defn: An old dance, for two persons, being a kind of waltz, in which
the woman made a high spring or bound. Shak.

LAVOLTATEER
La*vol`ta*teer", n.

Defn: A dancer of the lavolta.

LAVOUR
Lav"our, n.

Defn: A laver. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAVROCK
La"vrock, n.

Defn: Same as Laverock.

LAW
Law, n. Etym: [OE. lawe, laghe, AS. lagu, from the root of E. lie:
akin to OS. lag, Icel. lög, Sw. lag, Dan. lov; cf. L. lex, E. legal.
A law is that which is laid, set, or fixed; like statute, fr. L.
statuere to make to stand. See Lie to be prostrate.]

1. In general, a rule of being or of conduct, established by an
authority able to enforce its will; a controlling regulation; the
mode or order according to which an agent or a power acts.

Note: A law may be universal or particular, written or unwritten,
published or secret. From the nature of the highest laws a degree of
permanency or stability is always implied; but the power which makes
a law, or a superior power, may annul or change it.
These are the statutes and judgments and law, which the Lord made.
Lev. xxvi. 46.
The law of thy God, and the law of the King. Ezra vii. 26.
As if they would confine the Interminable . . . Who made our laws to
bind us, not himself. Milton.
His mind his kingdom, and his will his law. Cowper.

2. In morals: The will of God as the rule for the disposition and
conduct of all responsible beings toward him and toward each other; a
rule of living, conformable to righteousness; the rule of action as
obligatory on the conscience or moral nature.

3. The Jewish or Mosaic code, and that part of Scripture where it is
written, in distinction from the gospel; hence, also, the Old
Testament.
What things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the
law . . . But now the righteousness of God without the law is
manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Rom. iii.
19, 21.

4. In human government:
(a) An organic rule, as a constitution or charter, establishing and
defining the conditions of the existence of a state or other
organized community.
(b) Any edict, decree, order, ordinance, statute, resolution,
judicial, decision, usage, etc., or recognized, and enforced, by the
controlling authority.

5. In philosophy and physics: A rule of being, operation, or change,
so certain and constant that it is conceived of as imposed by the
will of God or by some controlling authority; as, the law of
gravitation; the laws of motion; the law heredity; the laws of
thought; the laws of cause and effect; law of self-preservation.

6. In matematics: The rule according to which anything, as the change
of value of a variable, or the value of the terms of a series,
proceeds; mode or order of sequence.

7. In arts, works, games, etc.: The rules of construction, or of
procedure, conforming to the conditions of success; a principle,
maxim; or usage; as, the laws of poetry, of architecture, of
courtesy, or of whist.

8. Collectively, the whole body of rules relating to one subject, or
emanating from one source; -- including usually the writings
pertaining to them, and judicial proceedings under them; as, divine
law; English law; Roman law; the law of real property; insurance law.

9. Legal science; jurisprudence; the principles of equity; applied
justice.
Reason is the life of the law; nay, the common law itself is nothing
else but reason. Coke.
Law is beneficence acting by rule. Burke.
And sovereign Law, that state's collected will O'er thrones and
globes elate, Sits empress, crowning good, repressing ill. Sir W.
Jones.

10. Trial by the laws of the land; judicial remedy; litigation; as,
to go law.
When every case in law is right. Shak.
He found law dear and left it cheap. Brougham.

11. An oath, as in the presence of a court. [Obs.] See Wager of law,
under Wager. Avogadro's law (Chem.), a fundamental conception,
according to which, under similar conditions of temperature and
pressure, all gases and vapors contain in the same volume the same
number of ultimate molecules; -- so named after Avogadro, an Italian
scientist. Sometimes called Ampère's law.
 -- Bode's law (Astron.), an approximative empirical expression of
the distances of the planets from the sun, as follows: --
Mer. Ven. Earth. Mars. Aste. Jup. Sat. Uran. Nep. 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 0
3 6 12 24 48 96 192 384 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- ---4 7 10 16 28 52
100 196 388 5.9 7.3 10 15.2 27.4 52 95.4 192 300 where each distance
(line third) is the sum of 4 and a multiple of 3 by the series 0, 1,
2, 4, 8, etc., the true distances being given in the lower line.
 -- Boyle's law (Physics), an expression of the fact, that when an
elastic fluid is subjected to compression, and kept at a constant
temperature, the product of the pressure and volume is a constant
quantity, i. e., the volume is inversely proportioned to the
pressure; -- known also as Mariotte's law, and the law of Boyle and
Mariotte.
 -- Brehon laws. See under Brehon.
 -- Canon law, the body of ecclesiastical law adopted in the
Christian Church, certain portions of which (for example, the law of
marriage as existing before the Council of Tent) were brought to
America by the English colonists as part of the common law of the
land. Wharton.
 -- Civil law, a term used by writers to designate Roman law, with
modifications thereof which have been made in the different countries
into which that law has been introduced. The civil law, instead of
the common law, prevails in the State of Louisiana. Wharton.
 -- Commercial law. See Law merchant (below).
 -- Common law. See under Common.
 -- Criminal law, that branch of jurisprudence which relates to
crimes.
 -- Ecclesiastical law. See under Ecclesiastical.
 -- Grimm's law (Philol.), a statement (propounded by the German
philologist Jacob Grimm) of certain regular changes which the
primitive Indo-European mute consonants, so-called (most plainly seen
in Sanskrit and, with some changes, in Greek and Latin), have
undergone in the Teutonic languages. Examples: Skr. bhatr, L. frater,
E. brother, G. bruder; L. tres, E. three, G. drei, Skr. go, E. cow,
G. kuh; Skr. dha to put, Gr. ti-qe`-nai, E. do, OHG, tuon, G. thun.
 -- Kepler's laws (Astron.), three important laws or expressions of
the order of the planetary motions, discovered by John Kepler. They
are these: (1) The orbit of a planet with respect to the sun is an
ellipse, the sun being in one of the foci. (2) The areas swept over
by a vector drawn from the sun to a planet are proportioned to the
times of describing them. (3) The squares of the times of revolution
of two planets are in the ratio of the cubes of their mean distances.
 -- Law binding, a plain style of leather binding, used for law
books; -- called also law calf.
 -- Law book, a book containing, or treating of, laws.
 -- Law calf. See Law binding (above).
 -- Law day. (a) Formerly, a day of holding court, esp. a court-leet.
(b) The day named in a mortgage for the payment of the money to
secure which it was given. [U. S.] -- Law French, the dialect of
Norman, which was used in judicial proceedings and law books in
England from the days of William the Conqueror to the thirty-sixth
year of Edward III.
 -- Law language, the language used in legal writings and forms.
 -- Law Latin. See under Latin.
 -- Law lords, peers in the British Parliament who have held high
judicial office, or have been noted in the legal profession.
 -- Law merchant, or Commercial law, a system of rules by which trade
and commerce are regulated; -- deduced from the custom of merchants,
and regulated by judicial decisions, as also by enactments of
legislatures.
 -- Law of Charles (Physics), the law that the volume of a given mass
of gas increases or decreases, by a definite fraction of its value
for a given rise or fall of temperature; -- sometimes less correctly
styled Gay Lussac's law, or Dalton's law.
 -- Law of nations. See International law, under International.
 -- Law of nature. (a) A broad generalization expressive of the
constant action, or effect, of natural conditions; as, death is a law
of nature; self-defense is a law of nature. See Law, 4. (b) A term
denoting the standard, or system, of morality deducible from a study
of the nature and natural relations of human beings independent of
supernatural revelation or of municipal and social usages.
 -- Law of the land, due process of law; the general law of the land.
 -- Laws of honor. See under Honor.
 -- Laws of motion (Physics), three laws defined by Sir Isaac Newton:
(1) Every body perseveres in its state of rest or of moving uniformly
in a straight line, except so far as it is made to change that state
by external force. (2) Change of motion is proportional to the
impressed force, and takes place in the direction in which the force
is impressed. (3) Reaction is always equal and opposite to action,
that is to say, the actions of two bodies upon each other are always
equal and in opposite directions.
 -- Marine law, or Maritime law, the law of the sea; a branch of the
law merchant relating to the affairs of the sea, such as seamen,
ships, shipping, navigation, and the like. Bouvier.
 -- Mariotte's law. See Boyle's law (above).
 -- Martial law.See under Martial.
 -- Military law, a branch of the general municipal law, consisting
of rules ordained for the government of the military force of a state
in peace and war, and administered in courts martial. Kent. Warren's
Blackstone.
 -- Moral law,the law of duty as regards what is right and wrong in
the sight of God; specifically, the ten commandments given by Moses.
See Law, 2.
 -- Mosaic, or Ceremonial, law. (Script.) See Law, 3.
 -- Municipal, or Positive, law, a rule prescribed by the supreme
power of a state, declaring some right, enforcing some duty, or
prohibiting some act; -- distinguished from international and
constitutional law. See Law, 1.
 -- Periodic law. (Chem.) See under Periodic.
 -- Roman law, the system of principles and laws found in the codes
and treatises of the lawmakers and jurists of ancient Rome, and
incorporated more or less into the laws of the several European
countries and colonies founded by them. See Civil law (above).
 -- Statute law, the law as stated in statutes or positive enactments
of the legislative body.
 -- Sumptuary law. See under Sumptuary.
 -- To go to law, to seek a settlement of any matter by bringing it
before the courts of law; to sue or prosecute some one.
 -- To take, or have, the law of, to bring the law to bear upon; as,
to take the law of one's neighbor. Addison.
 -- Wager of law. See under Wager.

Syn.
 -- Justice; equity.
 -- Law, Statute, Common law, Regulation, Edict, Decree. Law is
generic, and, when used with reference to, or in connection with, the
other words here considered, denotes whatever is commanded by one who
has a right to require obedience. A statute is a particular law drawn
out in form, and distinctly enacted and proclaimed. Common law is a
rule of action founded on long usage and the decisions of courts of
justice. A regulation is a limited and often, temporary law, intended
to secure some particular end or object. An edict is a command or law
issued by a sovereign, and is peculiar to a despotic government. A
decree is a permanent order either of a court or of the executive
government. See Justice.

LAW
Law, v. t.

Defn: Same as Lawe, v. t. [Obs.]

LAW
Law, interj. Etym: [Cf. La.]

Defn: An exclamation of mild surprise. [Archaic or Low]

LAW-ABIDING
Law"-a*bid`ing, a.

Defn: Abiding the law; waiting for the operation of law for the
enforcement of rights; also, abiding by the law; obedient to the law;
as, law-abiding people.

LAWBREAKER
Law"break`er, n.

Defn: One who disobeys the law; a criminal.
 -- Law"break`ing, n. & a.

LAWE
Lawe, v. t. Etym: [See 2d Lawing.]

Defn: To cut off the claws and balls of, as of a dog's fore feet.
Wright.

LAWER
Law"er, n.

Defn: A lawyer. [Obs.] Bale.

LAWFUL
Law"ful, a.

1. Conformable to law; allowed by law; legitimate; competent.

2. Constituted or authorized by law; rightful; as, the lawful owner
of lands. Lawful age, the age when the law recognizes one's right of
independent action; majority; -- generally the age of twenty-one
years.

Note: In some of the States, and for some purposes, a woman attains
lawful age at eighteen. Abbott.

Syn.
 -- Legal; constitutional; allowable; regular; rightful.
 -- Lawful, Legal. Lawful means conformable to the principle, spirit,
or essence of the law, and is applicable to moral as well as
juridical law. Legal means conformable to the letter or rules of the
law as it is administered in the courts; conformable to juridical
law. Legal is often used as antithetical to equitable, but lawful is
seldom used in that sense.
 -- Law"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Law"ful*ness, n.

LAWGIVER
Law"giv`er, n.

Defn: One who makes or enacts a law or system of laws; a legislator.

LAWGIVING
Law"giv`ing, a.

Defn: Enacting laws; legislative.

LAWING
Law"ing, n.

Defn: Going to law; litigation. Holinshed.

LAWING
Law"ing, n. Etym: [So called because done in compliance with an
English forest law.]

Defn: Expeditation. Blackstone.

LAWLESS
Law"less, a.

1. Contrary to, or unauthorized by, law; illegal; as, a lawless
claim.
He needs no indirect nor lawless course. Shak.

2. Not subject to, or restrained by, the law of morality or of
society; as, lawless men or behavior.

3. Not subject to the laws of nature; uncontrolled.
Or, meteorlike, flame lawless through the void. Pope.
-- Law"less*ly, adv.
 -- Law"less*ness, n.

LAWMAKER
Law"mak`er, n.

Defn: A legislator; a lawgiver.

LAWMAKING
Law"mak`ing, a.

Defn: Enacting laws; legislative.
 -- n.

Defn: The enacting of laws; legislation.

LAWMONGER
Law"mon`ger, n.

Defn: A trader in law; one who practices law as if it were a trade.
Milton.

LAWN
Lawn, n. Etym: [OE. laund, launde, F. lande heath, moor; of Celtic
origin; cf. W. llan an open, clear place, llawnt a smooth rising
hill, lawn, Armor. lann or lan territory, country, lann a prickly
plant, pl. lannou heath, moor.]

1. An open space between woods. Milton.
"Orchard lawns and bowery hollows." Tennyson.

2. Ground (generally in front of or around a house) covered with
grass kept closely mown. Lawn mower, a machine for clipping the short
grass of lawns.
 -- Lawn tennis, a variety of the game of tennis, played in the open
air, sometimes upon a lawn, instead of in a tennis court. See Tennis.

LAWN
Lawn, n. Etym: [Earlier laune lynen, i. e., lawn linen; prob. from
the town Laon in France.]

Defn: A very fine linen (or sometimes cotton) fabric with a rather
open texture. Lawn is used for the sleeves of a bishop's official
dress in the English Church, and, figuratively, stands for the office
itself.
A saint in crape is twice in lawn. Pope.

LAWND
Lawnd, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Laund.

LAWNY
Lawn"y, a.

Defn: Having a lawn; characterized by a lawn or by lawns; like a
lawn.
Musing through the lawny park. T. Warton.

LAWNY
Lawn"y, a.

Defn: Made of lawn or fine linen. Bp. Hall.

LAWSONIA
Law*so"ni*a, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An Asiatic and North African shrub (Lawsonia inermis), with
smooth oval leaves, and fragrant white flowers. Henna is prepared
from the leaves and twigs. In England the shrub is called Egyptian
privet, and in the West Indies, Jamaica mignonette.

LAWSUIT
Law"suit`, n.

Defn: An action at law; a suit in equity or admiralty; any legal
proceeding before a court for the enforcement of a claim.

LAWYER
Law"yer, n. Etym: [From Law, like bowyer, fr.bow.]

1. One versed in the laws, or a practitioner of law; one whose
profession is to conduct lawsuits for clients, or to advise as to
prosecution or defence of lawsuits, or as to legal rights and
obligations in other matters. It is a general term, comprehending
attorneys, counselors, solicitors, barristers, sergeants, and
advocates.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) The black-necked stilt. See Stilt.
(b) The bowfin (Amia calva).
(c) The burbot (Lota maculosa).

LAWYERLIKE; LAWYERLY
Law"yer*like`, Law"yer*ly, a.

Defn: Like, or becoming, a lawyer; as, lawyerlike sagacity. "Lawyerly
mooting of this point." Milton.

LAX
Lax, a. [Compar. Laxer; superl. Laxest.] Etym: [L. laxus Cf. Laches,
Languish, Lease, v. t., Leash.]

1. Not tense, firm, or rigid; loose; slack; as, a lax bandage; lax
fiber.
The flesh of that sort of fish being lax and spongy. Ray.

2. Not strict or stringent; not exact; loose; weak; vague; equivocal.
The discipline was lax. Macaulay.
Society at that epoch was lenient, if not lax, in matters of the
passions. J. A. Symonds.
The word "æternus" itself is sometimes of a lax signification.
Jortin.

3. Having a looseness of the bowels; diarrheal.

Syn.
 -- Loose; slack; vague; unconfined; unrestrained; dissolute;
licentious.

LAX
Lax, n.

Defn: A looseness; diarrhea.

LAXATION
Lax*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. laxatio, fr. laxare to loosen, fr. laxus
loose, slack.]

Defn: The act of loosening or slackening, or the state of being
loosened or slackened.

LAXATIVE
Lax"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. laxativus mitigating, assuaging: cf. F.
laxatif. See Lax, a.]

1. Having a tendency to loosen or relax. Milton.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Having the effect of loosening or opening the intestines, and
relieving from constipation; -- opposed to astringent.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: A laxative medicine. See the Note under Cathartic.

LAXATIVENESS
Lax"a*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being laxative.

LAXATOR
Lax*a"tor, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. laxare, laxatum, to loosen.] (Anat.)

Defn: That which loosens; -- esp., a muscle which by its contraction
loosens some part.

LAXIITY
Lax"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. laxitas, fr. laxus loose, slack: cf. F.
laxité, See Lax, a.]

Defn: The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness,
strictness, or exactness.

LAXITY
Lax"i*ty (laks"i*ty), n. [L. laxitas, fr. laxus loose, slack: cf. F.
laxité, See Lax, a.]

Defn: The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness,
strictness, or exactness.

LAXLY
Lax"ly, adv.

Defn: In a lax manner.

LAXNESS
Lax"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being lax; laxity.

LAY
Lay, imp.

Defn: of Lie, to recline.

LAY
Lay, a. Etym: [F. lai, L. laicus, Gr. Laic.]

1. Of or pertaining to the laity, as distinct from the clergy; as, a
lay person; a lay preacher; a lay brother.

2. Not educated or cultivated; ignorant.[Obs.]

3. Not belonging to, or emanating from, a particular profession;
unprofessional; as, a lay opinion regarding the nature of a disease.
Lay baptism (Eccl.), baptism administered by a lay person. F. G. Lee.
 -- Lay brother (R. C. Ch.), one received into a convent of monks
under the three vows, but not in holy orders.
 -- Lay clerk (Eccl.), a layman who leads the responses of the
congregation, etc., in the church service. Hook.
 -- Lay days (Com.), time allowed in a charter party for taking in
and discharging cargo. McElrath.
 -- Lay elder. See 2d Elder, 3, note.

LAY
Lay, n.

Defn: The laity; the common people. [Obs.]
The learned have no more privilege than the lay. B. Jonson.

LAY
Lay, n.

Defn: A meadow. See Lea. [Obs.] Dryden.

LAY
Lay, n. Etym: [OF.lei faith, law, F. loi law. See Legal.]

1. Faith; creed; religious profession. [Obs.]
Of the sect to which that he was born He kept his lay, to which that
he was sworn. Chaucer.

2. A law. [Obs.] "Many goodly lays." Spenser.

3. An obligation; a vow. [Obs.]
They bound themselves by a sacred lay and oath. Holland.

LAY
Lay, a. Etym: [OF. lai, lais, prob. of Celtic origin; cf. Ir. laoi,
laoidh, song, poem, OIr.laoidh poem, verse; but cf. also AS. lac
play, sport, G. leich a sort of poem (cf. Lake to sport).

1. A song; a simple lyrical poem; a ballad. Spenser. Sir W. Scott.

2. A melody; any musical utterance.
The throstle cock made eke his lay. Chaucer.

LAY
Lay, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Laid; p. pr. & vb. n. Laying.] Etym: [OE.
leggen, AS. lecgan, causative, fr. licgan to lie; akin to D.leggen,
G. legen, Icel. leggja, Goth. lagjan. See Lie to be prostrate.]

1. To cause to lie down, to be prostrate, or to lie against
something; to put or set down; to deposit; as, to lay a book on the
table; to lay a body in the grave; a shower lays the dust.
A stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den. Dan. vi. 17.
Soft on the flowery herb I found me laid. Milton.

2. To place in position; to establish firmly; to arrange with
regularity; to dispose in ranks or tiers; as, to lay a corner stone;
to lay bricks in a wall; to lay the covers on a table.

3. To prepare; to make ready; to contrive; to provide; as, to lay a
snare, an ambush, or a plan.

4. To spread on a surface; as, to lay plaster or paint.

5. To cause to be still; to calm; to allay; to suppress; to exorcise,
as an evil spirit.
After a tempest when the winds are laid. Waller.

6. To cause to lie dead or dying.
Brave Cæneus laid Ortygius on the plain, The victor Cæneus was by
Turnus slain. Dryden.

7. To deposit, as a wager; to stake; to risk.
I dare lay mine honor He will remain so. Shak.

8. To bring forth and deposit; as, to lay eggs.

9. To apply; to put.
She layeth her hands to the spindle. Prov. xxxi. 19.

10. To impose, as a burden, suffering, or punishment; to assess, as a
tax; as, to lay a tax on land.
The Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Is. Iiii. 6.

11. To impute; to charge; to allege.
God layeth not folly to them. Job xxiv. 12.
Lay the fault on us. Shak.

12. To impose, as a command or a duty; as, to lay commands on one.

13. To present or offer; as, to lay an indictment in a particular
county; to lay a scheme before one.

14. (Law)

Defn: To state; to allege; as, to lay the venue. Bouvier.

15. (Mil.)

Defn: To point; to aim; as, to lay a gun.

16. (Rope Making)

Defn: To put the strands of (a rope, a cable, etc.) in their proper
places and twist or unite them; as, to lay a cable or rope.

17. (Print.)
(a) To place and arrange (pages) for a form upon the imposing stone.
(b) To place (new type) properly in the cases. To lay asleep, to put
sleep; to make unobservant or careless. Bacon.
 -- To lay bare, to make bare; to strip.
And laid those proud roofs bare to summer's rain. Byron.
-- To lay before, to present to; to submit for consideration; as, the
papers are laid before Congress.
 -- To lay by. (a) To save. (b) To discard.
Let brave spirits . . . not be laid by. Bacon.
-- To lay by the heels, to put in the stocks. Shak.
 -- To lay down. (a) To stake as a wager. (b) To yield; to
relinquish; to surrender; as, to lay down one's life; to lay down
one's arms. (c) To assert or advance, as a proposition or principle.
 -- To lay forth. (a) To extend at length; (reflexively) to exert
one's self; to expatiate. [Obs.] (b) To lay out (as a corpse). [Obs.]
Shak.
 -- To lay hands on, to seize.
 -- To lay hands on one's self, or To lay violent hands on one's
self, to injure one's self; specif., to commit suicide.
 -- To lay heads together, to consult.
 -- To lay hold of, or To lay hold on, to seize; to catch.
 -- To lay in, to store; to provide.
 -- To lay it on, to apply without stint. Shak.
 -- To lay on, to apply with force; to inflict; as, to lay on blows.
 -- To lay on load, to lay on blows; to strike violently. [Obs. or
Archaic] -- To lay one's self out, to strive earnestly.
No selfish man will be concerned to lay out himself for the good of
his country. Smalridge.
-- To lay one's self open to, to expose one's self to, as to an
accusation.
 -- To lay open, to open; to uncover; to expose; to reveal.
 -- To lay over, to spread over; to cover.
 -- To lay out. (a) To expend. Macaulay. (b) To display; to discover.
(c) To plan in detail; to arrange; as, to lay out a garden. (d) To
prepare for burial; as, to lay out a corpse. (e) To exert; as, to lay
out all one's strength.
 -- To lay siege to. (a) To besiege; to encompass with an army. (b)
To beset pertinaciously.
 -- To lay the course (Naut.), to sail toward the port intended
without jibing.
 -- To lay the land (Naut.), to cause it to disappear below the
horizon, by sailing away from it.
 -- To lay to (a) To charge upon; to impute. (b) To apply with vigor.
(c) To attack or harass. [Obs.] Knolles. (d) (Naut.) To check the
motion of (a vessel) and cause it to be stationary.
 -- To lay to heart, to feel deeply; to consider earnestly.
 -- To lay under, to subject to; as, to lay under obligation or
restraint.
 -- To lay unto. (a) Same as To lay to (above). (b) To put before.
Hos. xi. 4.
 -- To lay up. (a) To store; to reposit for future use. (b) To
confine; to disable. (c) To dismantle, and retire from active
service, as a ship.
 -- To lay wait for, to lie in ambush for.
 -- To lay waste, to destroy; to make desolate; as, to lay waste the
land.

Syn.
 -- See Put, v. t., and the Note under 4th Lie.

LAY
Lay, v. i.

1. To produce and deposit eggs.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To take a position; to come or go; as, to lay forward; to lay
aloft.

3. To lay a wager; to bet. To lay about, or To lay about one, to
strike vigorously in all directions. J. H. Newman.
 -- To lay at, to strike or strike at. Spenser.
 -- To lay for, to prepare to capture or assault; to lay wait for.
[Colloq.] Bp Hall.
 -- To lay in for, to make overtures for; to engage or secure the
possession of. [Obs.] "I have laid in for these." Dryden.
 -- To lay on, to strike; to beat; to attack. Shak.
 -- To lay out, to purpose; to plan; as, he lays out to make a
journey.

LAY
Lay, n.

1. That which lies or is laid or is conceived of as having been laid
or placed in its position; a row; a stratum; a layer; as, a lay of
stone or wood. Addison.
A viol should have a lay of wire strings below. Bacon.

Note: The lay of a rope is right-handed or left-handed according to
the hemp or strands are laid up. See Lay, v. t., 16. The lay of land
is its topographical situation, esp. its slope and its surface
features.

2. A wager. "My fortunes against any lay worth naming."

3.
(a) A job, price, or profit. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
(b) A share of the proceeds or profits of an enterprise; as, when a
man ships for a whaling voyage, he agrees for a certain lay. [U. S.]

4. (Textile Manuf.)
(a) A measure of yarn; a les. See 1st Lea (a).
(b) The lathe of a loom. See Lathe, 8.

5. A plan; a scheme. [Slang] Dickens. Lay figure. (a) A jointed model
of the human body that may be put in any attitude; -- used for
showing the disposition of drapery, etc. (b) A mere puppet; one who
serves the will of others without independent volition.
 -- Lay race, that part of a lay on which the shuttle travels in
weaving; -- called also shuttle race.

LAYER
Lay"er, n. Etym: [See Lay to cause to lie flat.]

1. One who, or that which, lays.

2. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of lair.]

Defn: That which is laid; a stratum; a bed; one thickness, course, or
fold laid over another; as, a layer of clay or of sand in the earth;
a layer of bricks, or of plaster; the layers of an onion.

3. A shoot or twig of a plant, not detached from the stock, laid
under ground for growth or propagation.

4. An artificial oyster bed.

LAYERING
Lay"er*ing, n.

Defn: A propagating by layers. Gardner.

LAYETTE
Lay*ette", n. [F.] (Med.)

Defn: The outfit of clothing, blankets, etc., prepared for a newborn
infant, and placed ready for used.

LAYING
Lay"ing, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, lays.

2. The act or period of laying eggs; the eggs laid for one
incubation; a clutch.

3. The first coat on laths of plasterer's two-coat work.

LAYLAND
Lay"land`, n. Etym: [Lay a meadow + land.]

Defn: Land lying untilled; fallow ground. [Obs.] Blount.

LAYMAN
Lay"man n.; pl. Laymen (. Etym: [Lay, adj. + man.]

1. One of the people, in distinction from the clergy; one of the
laity; sometimes, a man not belonging to some particular profession,
in distinction from those who do.
Being a layman, I ought not to have concerned myself with
speculations which belong to the profession. Dryden.

2. A lay figure. See under Lay, n. (above). Dryden

LAYNER
Lay"ner, n.Etym: [See Lanier.]

Defn: A whiplash. [Obs.]

LAY READER
Lay" read"er. (Eccl.)

Defn: A layman authorized to read parts of the public service of the
church.

LAY SHAFT; LAYSHAFT
Lay shaft, or Lay"shaft`, n. (Mach.)

Defn: A secondary shaft, as in a sliding change gear for an
automobile; a cam shaft operated by a two-to-one gear in an internal-
combustion engine. It is generally a shaft moving more or less
independently of the other parts of a machine, as, in some marine
engines, a shaft, driven by a small auxiliary engine, for
independently operating the valves of the main engine to insure
uniform motion.

LAYSHIP
Lay"ship, n.

Defn: The condition of being a layman. [Obs.] Milton.

LAYSTALL
Lay"stall`, n.

1. A place where rubbish, dung, etc., are laid or deposited.[Obs.] B.
Jonson.
Smithfield was a laystall of all ordure and filth. Bacon.

2. A place where milch cows are kept, or cattle on the way to market
are lodged. [Obs.]

LAZAR
La"zar, n. Etym: [OF. lazare, fr. Lazarus the beggar. Luke xvi. 20.]

Defn: A person infected with a filthy or pestilential disease; a
leper. Chaucer.
Like loathsome lazars, by the hedges lay. Spenser.
Lazar house a lazaretto; also, a hospital for quarantine.

LAZARET; LAZARETTO
Laz`a*ret", Laz`a*ret"to, n. Etym: [F. lazaret, or It. lazzeretto,
fr. Lazarus. See Lazar.]

Defn: A public building, hospital, or pesthouse for the reception of
diseased persons, particularly those affected with contagious
diseases.

LAZARET FEVER
Lazaret fever. (Med.)

Defn: Typhus fever.

LAZARIST; LAZARITE
Laz"a*rist, Laz"a*rite, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: One of the Congregation of the Priests of the Mission, a
religious institute founded by Vincent de Paul in 1624, and popularly
called Lazarists or Lazarites from the College of St. Lazare in
Paris, which was occupied by them until 1792.

LAZARLIKE; LAZARLY
La"zar*like`, La"zar*ly, a.

Defn: Full of sores; leprous. Shak. Bp. Hall.

LAZARONI
Laz`a*ro"ni, n. pl.

Defn: See Lazzaroni.

LAZARWORT
La"zar*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Laserwort.

LAZE
Laze, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lazed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lazing.] Etym: [See
Lazy.]

Defn: To be lazy or idle. [Colloq.] Middleton.

LAZE
Laze, v. t.

Defn: To waste in sloth; to spend, as time, in idleness; as, to laze
away whole days. [Colloq.]

LAZILY
La"zi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lazy manner. Locke.

LAZINESS
La"zi*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being lazy.
Laziness travels so slowly, that Poverty soon overtakes him.
Franklin.

LAZULI
Laz"u*li, n.Etym: [F. & NL. lapis lazuli, LL. lazulus, lazurius,
lazur from the same Oriental source as E. azure. See Azure.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a fine azure-blue color, usually in small rounded
masses. It is essentially a silicate of alumina, lime, and soda, with
some sodium sulphide, is often marked by yellow spots or veins of
sulphide of iron, and is much valued for ornamental work. Called also
lapis lazuli, and Armenian stone.

LAZULITE
Laz"u*lite, n. Etym: [From lazuli : cf. F. lazulite, G. lazulith.]
(Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a light indigo-blue color, occurring in small
masses, or in monoclinic crystals; blue spar. It is a hydrous
phosphate of alumina and magnesia.

LAZY
La"zy, a. [Compar. Lazier; superl. Laziest.] Etym: [OE. lasie,
laesic, of uncertain origin; cf. F. las tired, L. lassus, akin to E.
late; or cf. LG. losig, lesig.]

1. Disinclined to action or exertion; averse to labor; idle; shirking
work. Bacon.

2. Inactive; slothful; slow; sluggish; as, a lazy stream. "The night
owl's lazy flight." Shak.

3. Wicked; vicious. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] B. Jonson.

Lazy tongs, a system of jointed bars capable of great extension,
originally made for picking up something at a distance, now variously
applied in machinery.

Syn.
 -- Idle; indolent; sluggish; slothful. See Idle.

LAZYBACK
La"zy*back`, n.

Defn: A support for the back, attached to the seat of a carriage.
[Colloq.]

LAZYBONES
La"zy*bones`, n.

Defn: A lazy person. [Colloq.]

LAZZARONI
Laz`za*ro"ni (; It. , n. pl. Etym: [It. lazzarone, pl. lazzaroni.]

Defn: The homeless idlers of Naples who live by chance work or
begging; -- so called from the Hospital of St. Lazarus, which serves
as their refuge. [Written also, but improperly, lazaroni.]

LEA
Lea, n. Etym: [Cf. Lay, n. (that which is laid), 4.] (Textile Manuf.)
(a) A measure of yarn; for linen, 300 yards; for cotton, 120 yards; a
lay.
(b) A set of warp threads carried by a loop of the heddle.

LEA
Lea, n. Etym: [OE. ley, lay, As. leáh, leá; akin to Prov. G. lon bog,
morass, grove, and perh. to L. lucus grove, E. light, n.]

Defn: A meadow or sward land; a grassy field. "Plow-torn leas." Shak.
The lowing herd wind slowly o'er the lea. Gray.

LEACH
Leach, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See 3d Leech.

LEACH
Leach, n. [Written also letch.] Etym: [Cf. As. leáh lye, G. lauge.
See Lye.]

1. A quantity of wood ashes, through which water passes, and thus
imbibes the alkali.

2. A tub or vat for leaching ashes, bark, etc. Leach tub, a wooden
tub in which ashes are leached.

LEACH
Leach, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leached; p. pr. & vb. n. Leaching.] Etym:
[Written also leech and letch.]

1. To remove the soluble constituents from by subjecting to the
action of percolating water or other liquid; as, to leach ashes or
coffee.

2. To dissolve out; -- often used with out; as, to leach out alkali
from ashes.

LEACH
Leach, v. i.

Defn: To part with soluble constituents by percolation.

LEACH
Leach, n.

Defn: See Leech, a physician. [Obs.]

LEACHY
Leach"y, a.

Defn: Permitting liquids to pass by percolation; not capable of
retaining water; porous; pervious; -- said of gravelly or sandy
soils, and the like.

LEAD
Lead (lêd), n. Etym: [OE. led, leed, lead, AS. leád; akin to D. lood,
MHG. lot, G. loth plummet, sounding lead, small weight, Sw. & Dan.
lod. sq. root123]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: One of the elements, a heavy, pliable, inelastic metal, having
a bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished. It is both malleable
and ductile, though with little tenacity, and is used for tubes,
sheets, bullets, etc. Its specific gravity is 11.37. It is easily
fusible, forms alloys with other metals, and is an ingredient of
solder and type metal. Atomic weight, 206.4. Symbol Pb (L. Plumbum).
It is chiefly obtained from the mineral galena, lead sulphide.

2. An article made of lead or an alloy of lead; as:
(a) A plummet or mass of lead, used in sounding at sea.
(b) (Print.) A thin strip of type metal, used to separate lines of
type in printing.
(c) Sheets or plates of lead used as a covering for roofs; hence,
pl., a roof covered with lead sheets or terne plates.
I would have the tower two stories, and goodly leads upon the top.
Bacon

3. A small cylinder of black lead or plumbago, used in pencils. Black
lead, graphite or plumbago, ; -- so called from its leadlike
appearance and streak. [Colloq.] -- Coasting lead, a sounding lead
intermediate in weight between a hand lead and deep-sea lead.
 -- Deep-sea lead, the heaviest of sounding leads, used in water
exceeding a hundred fathoms in depth. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
 -- Hand lead, a small lead use for sounding in shallow water.
 -- Krems lead, Kremnitz lead Etym: [so called from Krems or
Kremnitz, in Austria], a pure variety of white lead, formed into
tablets, and called also Krems, or Kremnitz, white, and Vienna white.
 -- Lead arming, tallow put in the hollow of a sounding lead. See To
arm the lead (below).
 -- Lead colic. See under Colic.
 -- Lead color, a deep bluish gray color, like tarnished lead.
 -- Lead glance. (Min.) Same as Galena.
 -- Lead line (a) (Med.) A dark line along the gums produced by a
deposit of metallic lead, due to lead poisoning. (b) (Naut.) A
sounding line.
 -- Lead mill, a leaden polishing wheel, used by lapidaries.
 -- Lead ocher (Min.), a massive sulphur-yellow oxide of lead. Same
as Massicot.
 -- Lead pencil, a pencil of which the marking material is graphite
(black lead).
 -- Lead plant (Bot.), a low leguminous plant, genus Amorpha (A.
canescens), found in the Northwestern United States, where its
presence is supposed to indicate lead ore. Gray.
 -- Lead tree. (a) (Bot.) A West Indian name for the tropical,
leguminous tree, Leucæna glauca; -- probably so called from the
glaucous color of the foliage. (b) (Chem.) Lead crystallized in
arborescent forms from a solution of some lead salt, as by suspending
a strip of zinc in lead acetate.
 -- Mock lead, a miner's term for blende.
 -- Red lead, a scarlet, crystalline, granular powder, consisting of
minium when pure, but commonly containing several of the oxides of
lead. It is used as a paint or cement and also as an ingredient of
flint glass.
 -- Red lead ore (Min.), crocoite.
 -- Sugar of lead, acetate of lead.
 -- To arm the lead, to fill the hollow in the bottom of a sounding
lead with tallow in order to discover the nature of the bottom by the
substances adhering. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
 -- To cast, or heave, the lead, to cast the sounding lead for
ascertaining the depth of water.
 -- White lead, hydrated carbonate of lead, obtained as a white,
amorphous powder, and much used as an ingredient of white paint.

LEAD
Lead, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Leading.]

1. To cover, fill, or affect with lead; as, continuous firing leads
the grooves of a rifle.

2. (Print.)

Defn: To place leads between the lines of; as, to lead a page; leaded
matter.

LEAD
Lead (led), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Led; p. pr. & vb. n. Leading.] Etym:
[OE. leden, AS. l (akin to OS. l, D. leiden, G. leiten,Icel. le, Sw.
leda, Dan.lede), properly a causative fr. AS. li to go; akin to OHG.
l, Icel. l,Goth. leipan (in comp.). Cf. Lode, Loath.]

1. To guide or conduct with the hand, or by means of some physical
contact connection; as, a father leads a child; a jockey leads a
horse with a halter; a dog leads a blind man.
If a blind man lead a blind man, both fall down in the ditch. Wyclif
(Matt. xv. 14.)
They thrust him out of the city, and led him unto the brow of the
hill. Luke iv. 29.
In thy right hand lead with thee The mountain nymph, sweet Liberty.
Milton.

2. To guide or conduct in a certain course, or to a certain place or
end, by making the way known; to show the way, esp. by going with or
going in advance of. Hence, figuratively: To direct; to counsel; to
instruct; as, to lead a traveler; to lead a pupil.
The Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, to lead them
the way. Ex. xiii. 21.
He leadeth me beside the still waters. Ps. xxiii. 2.
This thought might lead me through the world's vain mask. Content,
though blind, had I no better guide. Milton.

3. To conduct or direct with authority; to have direction or charge
of; as, to lead an army, an exploring party, or a search; to lead a
political party.
Christ took not upon him flesh and blood that he might conquer and
rule nations, lead armies, or possess places. South.

4. To go or to be in advance of; to precede; hence, to be foremost or
chief among; as, the big sloop led the fleet of yachts; the Guards
led the attack; Demosthenes leads the orators of all ages.
As Hesperus, that leads the sun his way. Fairfax.
And lo ! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest. Leigh Hunt.

5. To draw or direct by influence, whether good or bad; to prevail
on; to induce; to entice; to allure; as, to lead one to espouse a
righteous cause.
He was driven by the necessities of the times, more than led by his
own disposition, to any rigor of actions. Eikon Basilike.
Silly women, laden with sins,led away by divers lusts. 2 Tim. iii. 6
(Rev. Ver.).

6. To guide or conduct one's self in, through, or along (a certain
course); hence, to proceed in the way of; to follow the path or
course of; to pass; to spend. Also, to cause (one) to proceed or
follow in (a certain course).
That we may lead a quiet and peaceable life. 1 Tim. ii. 2.
Nor thou with shadowed hint confuse A life that leads melodious days.
Tennyson.
You remember . . . the life he used to lead his wife and daughter.
Dickens.

7. (Cards & Dominoes)

Defn: To begin a game, round, or trick, with; as, to lead trumps; the
double five was led. To lead astray, to guide in a wrong way, or into
error; to seduce from truth or rectitude.
 -- To lead captive, to carry or bring into captivity.
 -- To lead the way, to show the way by going in front; to act as
guide. Goldsmith.

LEAD
Lead, v. i.

1. To guide or conduct, as by accompanying, going before, showing,
influencing, directing with authority, etc.; to have precedence or
preëminence; to be first or chief; -- used in most of the senses of
lead, v. t.

2. To tend or reach in a certain direction, or to a certain place;
as, the path leads to the mill; gambling leads to other vices.
The mountain foot that leads towards Mantua. Shak.
To lead off or out, to go first; to begin.

LEAD
Lead, n.

1. The act of leading or conducting; guidance; direction; as, to take
the lead; to be under the lead of another.
At the time I speak of, and having a momentary lead, . . . I am sure
I did my country important service. Burke.

2. precedence; advance position; also, the measure of precedence; as,
the white horse had the lead; a lead of a boat's length, or of half a
second.

3. (Cards & Dominoes)

Defn: The act or right of playing first in a game or round; the card
suit, or piece, so played; as, your partner has the lead.

4. An open way in an ice field. Kane.

5. (Mining)

Defn: A lode.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: The course of a rope from end to end.

7. (Steam Engine)

Defn: The width of port opening which is uncovered by the valve, for
the admission or release of steam, at the instant when the piston is
at end of its stroke.

Note: When used alone it means outside lead, or lead for the
admission of steam. Inside lead refers to the release or exhaust.

8. (Civil Engineering)

Defn: the distance of haul, as from a cutting to an embankment.

9. (Horology)

Defn: The action of a tooth, as a tooth of a wheel, in impelling
another tooth or a pallet. Saunier. Lead angle (Steam Engine), the
angle which the crank maker with the line of centers, in approaching
it, at the instant when the valve opens to admit steam.
 -- Lead screw (Mach.), the main longitudinal screw of a lathe, which
gives the feed motion to the carriage.

LEADED
Lead"ed, a.

1. Fitted with lead; set in lead; as, leaded windows.

2. (Print.)

Defn: Separated by leads, as the lines of a page.

LEADEN
Lead"en, a.

1. Made of lead; of the nature of lead; as, a leaden ball.

2. Like lead in color, etc. ; as, a leaden sky.

3. Heavy; dull; sluggish. "Leaden slumber." Shak.

LEADER
Lead"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, leads or conducts; a guide; a conductor.
Especially:
(a) One who goes first.
(b) One having authority to direct; a chief; a commander.
(c) (Mus.) A performer who leads a band or choir in music; also, in
an orchestra, the principal violinist; the one who plays at the head
of the first violins.
(d) (Naut.) A block of hard wood pierced with suitable holes for
leading ropes in their proper places.
(e) (Mach.) The principal wheel in any kind of machinery. [Obs. or
R.] G. Francis.
(f) A horse placed in advance of others; one of the forward pair of
horses.
He forgot to pull in his leaders, and they gallop away with him at
times. Hare.

(g) A pipe for conducting rain water from a roof to a cistern or to
the ground; a conductor. (h) (Fishing)

Defn: A net for leading fish into a pound, weir, etc. ; also, a line
of gut, to which the snell of a fly hook is attached.
(i) (Mining) A branch or small vein, not important in itself, but
indicating the proximity of a better one.

2. The first, or the principal, editorial article in a newspaper; a
leading or main editorial article.

3. (Print.)
(a) A type having a dot or short row of dots upon its face. (b) pl.

Defn: a row of dots, periods, or hyphens, used in tables of contents,
etc., to lead the eye across a space to the right word or number.

Syn.
 -- chief; chieftain; commander. See Chief.

LEADERSHIP
Lead"er*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a leader.

LEADHILLITE
Lead"hill*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a yellowish or greenish white color, consisting of
the sulphate and carbonate of lead; -- so called from having been
first found at Leadhills, Scotland.

LEADING
Lead"ing, a.

Defn: Guiding; directing; controlling; foremost; as, a leading
motive; a leading man; a leading example.
 -- Lead"ing*ly, adv. Leading case (Law), a reported decision which
has come to be regarded as settling the law of the question involved.
Abbott.
 -- Leading motive Etym: [a translation of G. leitmotif] (Mus.), a
guiding theme; in the modern music drama of Wagner, a marked melodic
phrase or short passage which always accompanies the reappearance of
a certain person, situation, abstract idea, or allusion in the course
of the play; a sort of musical label.
 -- Leading note (Mus.), the seventh note or tone in the ascending
major scale; the sensible note.
 -- Leading question, a question so framed as to guide the person
questioned in making his reply.
 -- Leading strings, strings by which children are supported when
beginning to walk.
 -- To be in leading strings, to be in a state of infancy or
dependence, or under the guidance of others.
 -- Leading wheel, a wheel situated before the driving wheels of a
locomotive engine.

LEADING
Lead"ing, n.

1. The act of guiding, directing, governing, or enticing; guidance.
Shak.

2. Suggestion; hint; example. [Archaic] Bacon.

LEADING EDGE
Lead"ing edge. (Aëronautics)

Defn: same as Advancing edge, above.

LEADMAN
Lead"man, n.; pl. Leadmen (.

Defn: One who leads a dance.[Obs.] B. Jonson.

LEADSMAN
Leads"man, n.; pl. Leadsmen (. (Naut.)

Defn: The man who heaves the lead. Totten.

LEADWORT
Lead"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of maritime herbs (Plumbago). P. Europæa has lead-
colored spots on the leaves, and nearly lead-colored flowers.

LEADY
Lead"y, a.

Defn: Resembling lead. Sir T. Elyot.

LEAF
Leaf, n.; pl. Leaves. Etym: [OE. leef, lef, leaf, AS. leáf; akin to
S. l, OFries. laf, D. loof foliage, G. laub,OHG. loub leaf, foliage,
Icel. lauf, Sw. löf, Dan. löv, Goth. laufs; cf. Lith. lapas. Cf.
Lodge.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A colored, usually green, expansion growing from the side of a
stem or rootstock, in which the sap for the use of the plant is
elaborated under the influence of light; one of the parts of a plant
which collectively constitute its foliage.

Note: Such leaves usually consist of a blade, or lamina , supported
upon a leafstalk or petiole, which, continued through the blade as
the midrib, gives off woody ribs and veins that support the cellular
texture. The petiole has usually some sort of an appendage on each
side of its base, which is called the stipule. The green parenchyma
of the leaf is covered with a thin epiderm pierced with closable
microscopic openings, known as stomata.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A special organ of vegetation in the form of a lateral
outgrowth from the stem, whether appearing as a part of the foliage,
or as a cotyledon, a scale, a bract, a spine, or a tendril.

Note: In this view every part of a plant, except the root and the
stem, is either a leaf, or is composed of leaves more or less
modified and transformed.

3. Something which is like a leaf in being wide and thin and having a
flat surface, or in being attached to a larger body by one edge or
end; as : (a) A part of a book or folded sheet containing two pages
upon its opposite sides. (b) A side, division, or part, that slides
or is hinged, as of window shutters, folding doors, etc. (c) The
movable side of a table. (d) A very thin plate; as, gold leaf. (e) A
portion of fat lying in a separate fold or layer. (f) One of the
teeth of a pinion, especially when small. Leaf beetle (Zoöl.), any
beetle which feeds upon leaves; esp., any species of the family
Chrysomelidæ, as the potato beetle and helmet beetle.
 -- Leaf bridge, a draw-bridge having a platform or leaf which swings
vertically on hinges.
 -- Leaf bud (Bot.), a bud which develops into leaves or a leafy
branch.
 -- Leaf butterfly (Zoöl.), any butterfly which, in the form and
colors of its wings, resembles the leaves of plants upon which it
rests; esp., butterflies of the genus Kallima, found in Southern Asia
and the East Indies.
 -- Leaf crumpler (Zoöl.), a small moth (Phycis indigenella), the
larva of which feeds upon leaves of the apple tree, and forms its
nest by crumpling and fastening leaves together in clusters.
 -- Leaf cutter (Zoöl.) , any one of various species of wild bees of
the genus Megachile, which cut rounded pieces from the edges of
leaves, or the petals of flowers, to be used in the construction of
their nests, which are made in holes and crevices, or in a leaf
rolled up for the purpose. Among the common American species are M.
brevis and M. centuncularis. Called also rose-cutting bee.
 -- Leaf fat, the fat which lies in leaves or layers within the body
of an animal.
 -- Leaf flea (Zoöl.), a jumping plant louse of the family Psyllidæ.
 -- Leaf frog (Zoöl.), any tree frog of the genus Phyllomedusa.
 -- Leaf green.(Bot.) See Chlorophyll.
 -- Leaf hopper (Zoöl.), any small jumping hemipterous insect of the
genus Tettigonia, and allied genera. They live upon the leaves and
twigs of plants. See Live hopper.
 -- Leaf insect (Zoöl.), any one of several genera and species of
orthopterous insects, esp. of the genus Phyllium, in which the wings,
and sometimes the legs, resemble leaves in color and form. They are
common in Southern Asia and the East Indies.
 -- Leaf lard, lard from leaf fat. See under Lard.
 -- Leaf louse (Zoöl.), an aphid.
 -- Leaf metal, metal in thin leaves, as gold, silver, or tin.
 -- Leaf miner (Zoöl.), any one of various small lepidopterous and
dipterous insects, which, in the larval stages, burrow in and eat the
parenchyma of leaves; as, the pear-tree leaf miner (Lithocolletis
geminatella).
 -- Leaf notcher (Zoöl.), a pale bluish green beetle (Artipus
Floridanus), which, in Florida, eats the edges of the leaves of
orange trees.
 -- Leaf roller (Zoöl.), the larva of any tortricid moth which makes
a nest by rolling up the leaves of plants. See Tortrix.
 -- Leaf scar (Bot.), the cicatrix on a stem whence a leaf has
fallen.
 -- Leaf sewer (Zoöl.), a tortricid moth, whose caterpillar makes a
nest by rolling up a leaf and fastening the edges together with silk,
as if sewn; esp., Phoxopteris nubeculana, which feeds upon the apple
tree.
 -- Leaf sight, a hinges sight on a firearm, which can be raised or
folded down.
 -- Leaf trace (Bot.), one or more fibrovascular bundles, which may
be traced down an endogenous stem from the base of a leaf.
 -- Leaf tier (Zoöl.), a tortricid moth whose larva makes a nest by
fastening the edges of a leaf together with silk; esp., Teras
cinderella, found on the apple tree.
 -- Leaf valve, a valve which moves on a hinge.
 -- Leaf wasp (Zoöl.), a sawfiy.
 -- To turn over a new leaf, to make a radical change for the better
in one's way of living or doing. [Colloq.]
They were both determined to turn over a new leaf. Richardson.

LEAF
Leaf, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leafed; p. pr. & vb. n. Leafing.]

Defn: To shoot out leaves; to produce leaves; to leave; as, the trees
leaf in May. Sir T. Browne.

LEAFAGE
Leaf"age, n.

Defn: Leaves, collectively; foliage.

LEAFCUP
Leaf"cup`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A coarse American composite weed (Polymnia Uvedalia).

LEAFED
Leafed, a.

Defn: Having (such) a leaf or (so many) leaves; -- used in
composition; as, broad-leafed; four-leafed.

LEAFET
Leaf"et, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A leaflet.

LEAF-FOOTED
Leaf"-foot`ed, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having leaflike expansions on the legs; -- said of certain
insects; as, the leaf-footed bug (Leptoglossus phyllopus).

LEAFINESS
Leaf"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being leafy.

LEAFLESS
Leaf"less, a.

Defn: Having no leaves or foliage; bearing no foliage. "Leafless
groves." Cowper.
 -- Leaf"less*ness, n. Leafless plants, plants having no foliage,
though leaves may be present in the form of scales and bracts. See
Leaf, n., 1 and 2.

LEAFLET
Leaf"let, n.

1. A little leaf; also, a little printed leaf or a tract.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the divisions of a compound leaf; a foliole.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A leaflike organ or part; as, a leaflet of the gills of fishes.

LEAF-NOSED
Leaf"-nosed`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a leaflike membrane on the nose; -- said of certain
bats, esp. of the genera Phyllostoma and Rhinonycteris. See Vampire.

LEAFSTALK
Leaf"stalk`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The stalk or petiole which supports a leaf.

LEAFY
Leaf"y, a. [Compar. Leafier; superl. Leafiest.]

1. Full of leaves; abounding in leaves; as, the leafy forest. "The
leafy month of June." Coleridge.

2. Consisting of leaves. "A leafy bed." Byron.

LEAGUE
League, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. legue, lieue, a measure of length, F.
lieue, Pr. lega, legua, It. & LL. lega, Sp. legua, Pg. legoa, legua;
all fr. LL. leuca, of Celtic origin: cf. Arm. leo, lev (perh. from
French), Ir.leige (perh. from English); also Ir. & Gael. leac a flag,
a broad, flat stone, W. llech, -- such stones having perh. served as
a sort of milestone (cf. Cromlech).]

1. A measure of length or distance, varying in different countries
from about 2.4 to 4.6 English statute miles of 5.280 feet each, and
used (as a land measure) chiefly on the continent of Europe, and in
the Spanish parts of America. The marine league of England and the
United States is equal to three marine, or geographical, miles of
6080 feet each.

Note: The English land league is equal to three English statute
miles. The Spanish and French leagues vary in each country according
to usage and the kind of measurement to which they are applied. The
Dutch and German leagues contain about four geographical miles, or
about 4.6 English statute miles.

2. A stone erected near a public road to mark the distance of a
league. [Obs.]

LEAGUE
League, n. Etym: [F.ligue, LL. liga, fr. L. ligare to bind; cf. Sp.
liga. Cf. Ally a confederate, Ligature.]

Defn: An alliance or combination of two or more nations, parties, or
persons, for the accomplishment of a purpose which requires a
continued course of action, as for mutual defense, or for furtherance
of commercial, religious, or political interests, etc.
And let there be 'Twixt us and them no league, nor amity. Denham.

Note: A league may be offensive or defensive, or both; offensive,
when the parties agree to unite in attacking a common enemy;
defensive, when they agree to a mutual defense of each other against
an enemy. The Holy League, an alliance of Roman Catholics formed in
1576 by influence of the Duke of Guise for the exclusion of
Protestants from the throne of France.
 -- Solemn League and Covenant. See Covenant,2.
 -- The land league, an association, organized in Dublin in 1879, to
promote the interests of the Irish tenantry, its avowed objects being
to secure fixity of tenure fair rent, and free sale of the tenants'
interest. It was declared illegal by Parliament, but vigorous
prosecutions have failed to suppress it.

Syn.
 -- Alliance; confederacy; confederation; coalition; combination;
compact; coöperation.

LEAGUE
League, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leagued; p. pr. & vb. n. Leaguing.] Etym:
[Cf. F. se liguer. See 2d League.]

Defn: To unite in a league or confederacy; to combine for mutual
support; to confederate South.

LEAGUE
League, v. t.

Defn: To join in a league; to cause to combine for a joint purpose;
to combine; to unite; as, common interests will league heterogeneous
elements.

LEAGUER
Lea"guer, n. Etym: [D.leger camp, bed, couch, lair. See Lair, and
cf.Beleaguer.]

1. The camp of a besieging army; a camp in general. b. Jonson.

2. A siege or beleaguering. [R.] Sir W. Scott.

LEAGUER
Lea"guer, v. t.

Defn: To besiege; to beleaguer. [Obs.]

LEAGUERER
Lea"guer*er, n.

Defn: A besieger. [R.] J. Webster.

LEAK
Leak, n. Etym: [Akin to D. lek leaky, a leak, G.leck, Icel. lekr
leaky, Dan. læk leaky, a leak, Sw. läck; cf. AS. hlec full of cracks
or leaky. Cf. Leak, v.]

1. A crack, crevice, fissure, or hole which admits water or other
fluid, or lets it escape; as, a leak in a roof; a leak in a boat; a
leak in a gas pipe. "One leak will sink a ship." Bunyan.

2. The entrance or escape of a fluid through a crack, fissure, or
other aperture; as, the leak gained on the ship's pumps. To spring a
leak, to open or crack so as to let in water; to begin to let in
water; as, the ship sprung a leak.

LEAK
Leak, a.

Defn: Leaky. [Obs.] Spenser.

LEAK
Leak, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Leaking.] Etym:
[Akin to D. lekken, G. lecken, lechen, Icel. leka, Dan. lække, Sw.
läcka, AS. leccan to wet, moisten. See Leak, n.]

1. To let water or other fluid in or out through a hole, crevice,
etc.; as, the cask leaks; the roof leaks; the boat leaks.

2. To enter or escape, as a fluid, through a hole, crevice, etc. ; to
pass gradually into, or out of, something; -- usually with in or out.
To leak out, to be divulged gradually or clandestinely; to become
public; as, the facts leaked out.

LEAKAGE
Leak"age (, n. Etym: [Cf. D. lekkage, for sense 1.]

1. A leaking; also, the quantity that enters or issues by leaking.

2. (Com.)

Defn: An allowance of a certain rate per cent for the leaking of
casks, or waste of liquors by leaking.

LEAKINESS
Leak"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being leaky.

LEAKY
Leak"y, a. [Compar. Leakier; superl. Leakiest.]

1. Permitting water or other fluid to leak in or out; as, a leaky
roof or cask.

2. Apt to disclose secrets; tattling; not close. [Colloq.]

LEAL
Leal, a. Etym: [OE. leial, another form of loial, F. loyal. See
Loyal.]

Defn: Faithful; loyal; true.
All men true and leal, all women pure. Tennyson.
Land of the leal, the place of the faithful; heaven.

LEAM
Leam, n. & v. i.

Defn: See Leme. [Obs.] Holland.

LEAM
Leam, n. Etym: [See Leamer, Lien.]

Defn: A cord or strap for leading a dog. Sir W. Scott.

LEAMER
Leam"er, n. Etym: [F. limier, OF. liemier, fr. L. ligamen band,
bandage. See Lien.]

Defn: A dog held by a leam.

LEAN
Lean, v. t. Etym: [Icel. leyna; akin to G. läugnen to deny, AS. l,
also E. lie to speak falsely.]

Defn: To conceal. [Obs.] Ray.

LEAN
Lean, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leaned, sometimes Leant (p. pr. & vb. n.
Leaning.] Etym: [OE. lenen, AS. hlinian, hleonian, v. i.; akin to OS.
hlinon, D. leunen, OHG. hlinen, linen, G. lehnen, L. inclinare, Gr.
clivus hill, slope. sq. root40. Cf. Declivity, Climax, Incline,
Ladder.]

1. To incline, deviate, or bend, from a vertical position; to be in a
position thus inclining or deviating; as, she leaned out at the
window; a leaning column. "He leant forward." Dickens.

2. To incline in opinion or desire; to conform in conduct; -- with
to, toward, etc.
They delight rather to lean to their old customs. Spenser.

3. To rest or rely, for support, comfort, and the like; -- with on,
upon, or against.
He leaned not on his fathers but himself. Tennyson.

LEAN
Lean, v. t. Etym: [From Lean, v. i. ; AS. hl, v. t., fr. hleonian,
hlinian, v. i.]

Defn: To cause to lean; to incline; to support or rest. Mrs.
Browning.
His fainting limbs against an oak he leant. Dryden.

LEAN
Lean, a. [Compar. Leaner; superl. Leanest.] Etym: [OE. lene, AS. hl;
prob. akin to E. lean to incline. See Lean, v. i. ]

1. Wanting flesh; destitute of or deficient in fat; not plump;
meager; thin; lank; as, a lean body; a lean cattle.

2. Wanting fullness, richness, sufficiency, or productiveness;
deficient in quality or contents; slender; scant; barren; bare; mean;
-- used literally and figuratively; as, the lean harvest; a lean
purse; a lean discourse; lean wages. "No lean wardrobe." Shak.
Their lean and fiashy songs. Milton.
What the land is, whether it be fat or lean. Num. xiii. 20.
Out of my lean and low ability I'll lend you something. Shak.

3. (Typog.)

Defn: Of a character which prevents the compositor from earning the
usual wages; -- opposed to fat; as lean copy, matter, or type.

Syn.
 -- slender; spare; thin; meager; lank; skinny; gaunt.

LEAN
Lean, n.

1. That part of flesh which consist principally of muscle without the
fat.
The fat was so white and the lean was so ruddy. Goldsmith.

2. (Typog.)

Defn: Unremunerative copy or work.

LEAN-FACED
Lean"-faced`, a.

1. Having a thin face.

2. (Typog.)

Defn: slender or narrow; -- said of type the letters of which have
thin lines, or are unusually narrow in proportion to their height. W.
Savage.

LEANING
Lean"ing, n.

Defn: The act, or state, of inclining; inclination; tendency; as, a
leaning towards Calvinism.

LEANLY
Lean"ly, adv.

Defn: Meagerly; without fat or plumpness.

LEANNESS
Lean"ness, n. Etym: [AS. hlænnes.]

Defn: The condition or quality of being lean.

LEAN-TO
Lean"-to`, a. (Arch.)

Defn: Having only one slope or pitch; -- said of a roof.
 -- n.

Defn: A shed or slight building placed against the wall of a larger
structure and having a single-pitched roof; -- called also penthouse,
and to-fall.
The outer circuit was covered as a lean-to, all round this inner
apartment. De Foe.

LEAN-WITTED
Lean"-wit`ted, a.

Defn: Having but little sense or shrewdness.

LEANY
Lean"y, a.

Defn: Lean. [Obs.] Spenser.

LEAP
Leap, n. Etym: [AS. leáp.]

1. A basket. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. A weel or wicker trap for fish. [Prov. Eng.]

LEAP
Leap, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leaped, rarely Leapt; p. pr. & vb. n.
Leaping.] Etym: [OE. lepen, leapen, AS. hleápan to leap, jump, run;
akin to OS. ahl, OFries. hlapa, D. loopen, G. laufen, OHG. louffan,
hlauffan, Icel. hlaupa, Sw. löpa, Dan. löbe, Goth. ushlaupan. Cf.
Elope, Lope, Lapwing, Loaf to loiter.]

1. To spring clear of the ground, with the feet; to jump; to vault;
as, a man leaps over a fence, or leaps upon a horse. Bacon.
Leap in with me into this angry flood. Shak.

2. To spring or move suddenly, as by a jump or by jumps; to bound; to
move swiftly. Also Fig.
My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in the sky. Wordsworth.

LEAP
Leap, v. t.

1. To pass over by a leap or jump; as, to leap a wall, or a ditch.

2. To copulate with (a female beast); to cover.

3. To cause to leap; as, to leap a horse across a ditch.

LEAP
Leap, n.

1. The act of leaping, or the space passed by leaping; a jump; a
spring; a bound.
Wickedness comes on by degrees, . . . and sudden leaps from one
extreme to another are unnatural. L'Estrange.
Changes of tone may proceed either by leaps or glides. H. Sweet.

2. Copulation with, or coverture of, a female beast.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A fault.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: A passing from one note to another by an interval, especially
by a long one, or by one including several other and intermediate
intervals.

LEAPER
Leap"er, n. Etym: [AS. hleápere.]

Defn: One who, or that which, leaps.

LEAPER
Leap"er, n. Etym: [See 1st Leap.]

Defn: A kind of hooked instrument for untwisting old cordage.

LEAPFROG
Leap"frog`, n.

Defn: A play among boys, in which one stoops down and another leaps
over him by placing his hands on the shoulders of the former.

LEAPFUL
Leap"ful, n. Etym: [See 1st Leap.]

Defn: A basketful. [Obs.]

LEAPING
Leap"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Leap, to jump. Leaping house, a brothel. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- Leaping pole, a pole used in some games of leaping.
 -- Leaping spider (Zoöl.), a jumping spider; one of the Saltigradæ.

LEAPINGLY
Leap"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By leaps.

LEAP YEAR
Leap" year`

Defn: . Bissextile; a year containing 366 days; every fourth year
which leaps over a day more than a common year, giving to February
twenty-nine days. See Bissextile.

Note: Every year whose number is divisible by four without a
remainder is a leap year, excepting the full centuries, which, to be
leap years, must be divisible by 400 without a remainder. If not so
divisible they are common years. 1900, therefore, is not a leap year.

LEAR
Lear, v. t.

Defn: To learn. See Lere, to learn. [Obs.]

LEAR
Lear, n.

Defn: Lore; lesson. [Obs.] Spenser.

LEAR
Lear, a.

Defn: See Leer, a. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

LEAR
Lear, n.

Defn: An annealing oven. See Leer, n.

LEARN
Learn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Learned, or Learnt (p. pr. & vb. n.
Learning.] Etym: [OE. lernen, leornen, AS. leornian; akin to OS.
linon, for lirnon, OHG. lirnen, lernen, G. lernen, fr. the root of
AS. l to teach, OS. lerian, OHG.leran, G. lehren, Goth. laisjan, also
Goth lais I know, leis acquainted (in comp.); all prob. from a root
meaning, to go, go over, and hence, to learn; cf. AS. leoran to go .
Cf. Last a mold of the foot, lore.]

1. To gain knowledge or information of; to ascertain by inquiry,
study, or investigation; to receive instruction concerning; to fix in
the mind; to acquire understanding of, or skill; as, to learn the
way; to learn a lesson; to learn dancing; to learn to skate; to learn
the violin; to learn the truth about something. "Learn to do well."
Is. i. 17.
Now learn a parable of the fig tree. Matt. xxiv. 32.

2. To communicate knowledge to; to teach. [Obs.]
Hast thou not learned me how To make perfumes Shak.

Note: Learn formerly had also the sense of teach, in accordance with
the analogy of the French and other languages, and hence we find it
with this sense in Shakespeare, Spenser, and other old writers. This
usage has now passed away. To learn is to receive instruction, and to
teach is to give instruction. He who is taught learns, not he who
teaches.

LEARN
Learn, v. i.

Defn: To acquire knowledge or skill; to make progress in acquiring
knowledge or skill; to receive information or instruction; as, this
child learns quickly.
Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. Matt. xi. 29.
To learn by heart. See By heart, under Heart.
 -- To learn by rote, to memorize by repetition without exercise of
the understanding.

LEARNABLE
Learn"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be learned.

LEARNED
Learn"ed, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to learning; possessing, or characterized by,
learning, esp. scholastic learning; erudite; well-informed; as, a
learned scholar, writer, or lawyer; a learned book; a learned theory.
The learnedlover lost no time. Spenser.
Men of much reading are greatly learned, but may be little knowing.
Locke.
Words of learned length and thundering sound. Goldsmith.
The learned, learned men; men of erudition; scholars.
 -- Learn"ed*ly, adv. Learn"ed*ness, n.
Every coxcomb swears as learnedly as they. Swift.

LEARNER
Learn"er, n.

Defn: One who learns; a scholar.

LEARNING
Learn"ing, n. Etym: [AS. leornung.]

1. The acquisition of knowledge or skill; as, the learning of
languages; the learning of telegraphy.

2. The knowledge or skill received by instruction or study; acquired
knowledge or ideas in any branch of science or literature; erudition;
literature; science; as, he is a man of great learning. Book
learning. See under Book.

Syn.
 -- Literature; erudition; lore; scholarship; science; letters. See
Literature.

LEASABLE
Leas"a*ble, a. Etym: [From 2d Lease.]

Defn: Such as can be leased.

LEASE
Lease, v. i. Etym: [AS. lesan to gather; akin to D. lezen to gather,
read, G. lesen, Goth. lisan to gather; cf. Lith lesti to peck.]

Defn: To gather what harvesters have left behind; to glean. [Obs.]
Dryden.

LEASE
Lease, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leased; p. pr. & vb. n. Leasing.] Etym:
[F.laisser, OF. laissier, lessier, to leave, transmit, L. laxare to
loose, slacken, from laxus loose, wide. See Lax, and cf. Lesser.]

1. To grant to another by lease the possession of, as of lands,
tenements, and hereditaments; to let; to demise; as, a landowner
leases a farm to a tenant; -- sometimes with out.
There were some [houses] that were leased out for three lives.
Addison.

2. To hold under a lease; to take lease of; as, a tenant leases his
land from the owner.

LEASE
Lease, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. lais. See Lease, v. t.]

1. A demise or letting of lands, tenements, or hereditaments to
another for life, for a term of years, or at will, or for any less
interest than that which the lessor has in the property, usually for
a specified rent or compensation.

2. The contract for such letting.

3. Any tenure by grant or permission; the time for which such a
tenure holds good; allotted time.
Our high-placed Macbeth Shall live the lease of nature. Shak.
Lease and release a mode of conveyance of freehold estates, formerly
common in England and in New York. its place is now supplied by a
simple deed of grant. Burrill. Warren's Blackstone.

LEASEHOLD
Lease"hold`, a.

Defn: Held by lease.

LEASEHOLD
Lease"hold`, n.

Defn: A tenure by lease; specifically, land held as personalty under
a lease for years.

LEASEHOLDER
Lease"hold`er, n.

Defn: A tenant under a lease.
 -- Lease"hold`ing, a. & n.

LEASER
Leas"er, n. Etym: [From 1st Lease.]

Defn: One who leases or gleans. [Obs.] Swift.

LEASER
Leas"er, n.

Defn: A liar. [Obs.] See Leasing.

LEASH
Leash, n. Etym: [OE. lese, lees, leece, OF. lesse, F. laisse,
LL.laxa, fr. L. laxus loose. See Lax.]

1. A thong of leather, or a long cord, by which a falconer holds his
hawk, or a courser his dog.
Even like a fawning greyhound in the leash. Shak.

2. (Sporting)

Defn: A brace and a half; a tierce; three; three creatures of any
kind, especially greyhounds, foxes, bucks, and hares; hence, the
number three in general.
[I] kept my chamber a leash of days. B. Jonson.
Then were I wealthier than a leash of kings. Tennyson.

3. (Weaving)

Defn: A string with a loop at the end for lifting warp threads, in a
loom.

LEASH
Leash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Leashing.]

Defn: To tie together, or hold, with a leash.

LEASING
Leas"ing, n. Etym: [AS. leásung, fr. leás loose, false, deceitful.
See -less, Loose, a.]

Defn: The act of lying; falsehood; a lie or lies. [Archaic] Spenser.
Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing. Ps. v. 6.
Blessed be the lips that such a leasing told. Fairfax.
Leasing making (Scots Law), the uttering of lies or libels upon the
personal character of the sovereign, his court, or his family. Bp.
Burnet.

LEASOW
Lea"sow, n. Etym: [AS. lesu, læsu.]

Defn: A pasture. [Obs.]

LEAST
Least, a. Etym: [OE. last, lest, AS. l, l, superl. of l less. See
Less, a.] [Used as the superlative of little.]

Defn: Smallest, either in size or degree; shortest; lowest; most
unimportant; as, the least insect; the least mercy; the least space.

Note: Least is often used with the, as if a noun.
I am the least of the apostles. 1 Cor. xv. 9.
At least, or At the least, at the least estimate, consideration,
chance, etc.; hence, at any rate; at all events; even. See However.
He who tempts, though in vain, at least asperses The tempted with
dishonor. Milton.
Upon the mast they saw a young man, at least if he were a man, who
sat as on horseback. Sir P. Sidney.
-- In least, or In the least, in the least degree, manner, etc. "He
that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much." Luke xvi. 10.
 -- Least squares (Math.), a method of deducing from a number of
carefully made yet slightly discordant observations of a phenomenon
the most probable values of the unknown quantities.

Note: It takes as its fundamental principle that the most probable
values are those which make the sum of the squares of the residual
errors of the observation a minimum.

LEAST
Least, adv.

Defn: In the smallest or lowest degree; in a degree below all others;
as, to reward those who least deserve it.

LEAST
Least, conj.

Defn: See Lest, conj. [Obs.] Spenser.

LEASTWAYS; LEASTWISE
Least"ways`, Least"wise`, adv.

Defn: At least; at all events. [Colloq.] At leastways, or At
leastwise, at least. [Obs.] Fuller.

LEASY
Lea"sy, a. Etym: [AS. leás void, loose, false. Cf. Leasing.]

Defn: Flimsy; vague; deceptive. [Obs.] Ascham.

LEAT
Leat, n. Etym: [Cf. Lead to conduct.]

Defn: An artificial water trench, esp. one to or from a mill. C.
Kingsley.

LEATHER
Leath"er, n. Etym: [OE. lether, AS. le; akin to D. leder, leêr, G.
leder, OHG. ledar, Icel. le, Sw. läder, Dan. læder.]

1. The skin of an animal, or some part of such skin, tanned, tawed,
or otherwise dressed for use; also, dressed hides, collectively.

2. The skin. [Ironical or Sportive]

Note: Leather is much used adjectively in the sense of made of,
relating to, or like, leather. Leather board, an imitation of sole
leather, made of leather scraps, rags, paper, etc.
 -- Leather carp (Zoöl.) , a variety of carp in which the scales are
all, or nearly all, absent. See Illust. under Carp.
 -- Leather jacket. (Zoöl.) (a) A California carangoid fish
(Oligoplites saurus). (b) A trigger fish (Balistes Carolinensis).
 -- Leather flower (Bot.), a climbing plant (Clematis Viorna) of the
Middle and Southern States having thick, leathery sepals of a
purplish color.
 -- Leather leaf (Bot.), a low shrub (Cassandra calyculata), growing
in Northern swamps, and having evergreen, coriaceous, scurfy leaves.
 -- Leather plant (Bot.), one or more New Zealand plants of the
composite genus Celmisia, which have white or buff tomentose leaves.
 -- Leather turtle. (Zoöl.) See Leatherback.
 -- Vegetable leather. (a) An imitation of leather made of cotton
waste. (b) Linen cloth coated with India rubber. Ure.

LEATHER
Leath"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leathered; p. pr. & vb. n. Leathering.]

Defn: To beat, as with a thong of leather. [Obs. or Colloq.] G.
Eliot.

LEATHERBACK
Leath"er*back`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large sea turtle (Sphargis coriacea), having no bony shell on
its back. It is common in the warm and temperate parts of the
Atlantic, and sometimes weighs over a thousand pounds; -- called also
leather turtle, leathery turtle, leather-backed tortoise, etc.

LEATHERET; LEATHERETTE
Leath"er*et, Leath`er*ette", n. Etym: [Leather + et, F. -ette.]

Defn: An imitation of leather, made of paper and cloth.

LEATHERHEAD
Leath"er*head`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The friar bird.

LEATHERN
Leath"ern, a.

Defn: Made of leather; consisting of. leather; as, a leathern purse.
"A leathern girdle about his loins." Matt. iii. 4.

LEATHERNECK
Leath"er*neck`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sordid friar bird of Australia (Tropidorhynchus sordidus).

LEATHERWOOD
Leath"er*wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A small branching shrub (Dirca palustris), with a white, soft
wood, and a tough, leathery bark, common in damp woods in the
Northern United States; -- called also moosewood, and wicopy. Gray.

LEATHERY
Leath"er*y, a.

Defn: Resembling leather in appearance or consistence; tough. "A
leathery skin." Grew.

LEAVE
Leave, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leaved; p. pr. & vb. n. Leaving]

Defn: To send out leaves; to leaf; -- often with out. G. Fletcher.

LEAVE
Leave, v. t. Etym: [See Levy.]

Defn: To raise; to levy. [Obs.]
An army strong she leaved. Spenser.

LEAVE
Leave, n. Etym: [OE. leve, leave, AS. leáf; akin to leóf pleasing,
dear, E. lief, D. oorlof leave, G. arlaub, and erlauben to permit,
Icel. leyfi. Lief.]

1. Liberty granted by which restraint or illegality is removed;
permission; allowance; license.
David earnestly asked leave of me. 1 Sam. xx. 6.
No friend has leave to bear away the dead. Dryden.

2. The act of leaving or departing; a formal parting; a leaving;
farewell; adieu; -- used chiefly in the phrase, to take leave, i. e.,
literally, to take permission to go.
A double blessing is a'double grace; Occasion smiles upon a second
leave. Shak.
And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and then took his
leave of the brethren. Acts xviii. 18.
French leave. See under French.

Syn.
 -- See Liberty.

LEAVE
Leave, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Left; p. pr. & vb. n. Leaving.] Etym: [OE.
leven, AS. l, fr. laf remnant, heritage; akin to lifian, libban, to
live, orig., to remain; cf. belifan to remain, G. bleiben, Goth.
bileiban. Live, v.]

1. To withdraw one's self from; to go away from; to depart from; as,
to leave the house.
Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall
cleave unto his wife. Gen. ii. 24.

2. To let remain unremoved or undone; to let stay or continue, in
distinction from what is removed or changed.
If grape gatherers come to thee, would they not leave some gleaning
grapes Jer. xlix. 9.
These ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone. Matt.
xxiii. 23.
Besides it leaveth a suspicion, as if more might be said than is
expressed. Bacon.

3. To cease from; to desist from; to abstain from.
Now leave complaining and begin your tea. Pope.

4. To desert; to abandon; to forsake; hence, to give up; to
relinquish.
Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee. Mark x. 28.
The heresies that men do leave. Shak.

5. To let be or do without interference; as, I left him to his
reflections; I leave my hearers to judge.
I will leave you now to your gossiplike humor. Shak.

6. To put; to place; to deposit; to deliver; to commit; to submit --
with a sense of withdrawing one's self from; as, leave your hat in
the hall; we left our cards; to leave the matter to arbitrators.
Leave there thy gift before the altar and go thy way. Matt. v. 24.
The foot That leaves the print of blood where'er it walks. Shak.

7. To have remaining at death; hence, to bequeath; as, he left a
large estate; he left a good name; he left a legacy to his niece. To
leave alone. (a) To leave in solitude. (b) To desist or refrain from
having to do with; as, to leave dangerous chemicals alone.
 -- To leave off. (a) To desist from; to forbear; to stop; as, to
leave off work at six o'clock. (b) To cease wearing or using; to omit
to put in the usual position; as, to leave off a garment; to leave
off the tablecloth. (c) To forsake; as, to leave off a bad habit.
 -- To leave out, to omit; as, to leave out a word or name in
writing.
 -- To leave to one's self, to let (one) be alone; to cease caring
for (one).

Syn. - To quit; depart from; forsake; abandon; relinquish; deliver;
bequeath; give up; forego; resign; surrender; forbear. See Quit.

LEAVE
Leave, v. i.

1. To depart; to set out. [Colloq.]
By the time I left for Scotland. Carlyle.

2. To cease; to desist; to leave off. "He . . . began at the eldest,
and left at the youngest." Gen. xliv. 12. To leave off, to cease; to
desist; to stop.
Leave off, and for another summons wait. Roscommon.

LEAVED
Leaved, a. Etym: [From Leaf.]

Defn: Bearing, or having, a leaf or leaves; having folds; -- used in
combination; as, a four-leaved clover; a two-leaved gate; long-
leaved.

LEAVELESS
Leave"less, a.

Defn: Leafless. [Obs.] Carew.

LEAVEN
Leav"en, n. Etym: [OE. levain, levein, F. levain, L. levamen
alleviation, mitigation; but taken in the sense of, a raising, that
which raises, fr. levare to raise. See Lever, n.]

1. Any substance that produces, or is designed to produce,
fermentation, as in dough or liquids; esp., a portion of fermenting
dough, which, mixed with a larger quantity of dough, produces a
general change in the mass, and renders it light; yeast; barm.

2. Anything which makes a general assimilating (especially a
corrupting) change in the mass.
Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. Luke xii.
1.

LEAVEN
Leav"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leavened; p. pr. & vb. n. Leavening.]

1. To make light by the action of leaven; to cause to ferment.
A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. 1 Cor. v. 6.

2. To imbue; to infect; to vitiate.
With these and the like deceivable doctrines, he leavens also his
prayer. Milton.

LEAVENING
Leav"en*ing, n.

1. The act of making light, or causing to ferment, by means of
leaven.

2. That which leavens or makes light. Bacon.

LEAVENOUS
Leav"en*ous, a.

Defn: Containing leaven. Milton.

LEAVER
Leav"er, n.

Defn: One who leaves, or withdraws.

LEAVES
Leaves, n.,

Defn: pl. of Leaf.

LEAVE-TAKING
Leave"-tak`ing, n.

Defn: Taking of leave; parting compliments. Shak.

LEAVINESS
Leav"i*ness, n. Etym: [Fr. Leaf.]

Defn: Leafiness.[Obs.]

LEAVINGS
Leav"ings, n. pl.

1. Things left; remnants; relics.

2. Refuse; offal.

LEAVY
Leav"y, a.

Defn: Leafy. [Obs.] Chapman.

LEBAN; LEBBAN
Leb"an, Leb"ban, n.

Defn: Coagulated sour milk diluted with water; -- a common beverage
among the Arabs. Also, a fermented liquor made of the same.

LECAMA
Le*ca"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hartbeest.

LECANOMANCY
Le*can"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: divination practiced with water in a basin, by throwing three
stones into it, and invoking the demon whose aid was sought.

LECANORIC
Lec`a*no"ric, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid which is
obtained from several varieties of lichen (Lecanora, Roccella, etc.),
as a white, crystalline substance, and is called also orsellic, or
diorsellinic acid, lecanorin, etc.

LECANORIN
Lec`a*no"rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Lecanoric.

LECH
Lech, v. t. Etym: [F. lécher. See Lick.]

Defn: To lick. [Obs.]

LECHE
Le*che", n.

Defn: See water buck, under 3d Buck.

LECHER
Lech"er, n. Etym: [OE.lechur, lechour, OF.lecheor, lecheur, gormand,
glutton, libertine, parasite, fr. lechier to lick, F. lécher; of
Teutonic origin. See Lick.]

Defn: A man given to lewdness; one addicted, in an excessive degree,
to the indulgence of sexual desire, or to illicit commerce with
women.

LECHER
Lech"er, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lechered; p. pr. & vb. n. Lechering.]

Defn: To practice lewdness.

LECHERER
Lech"er*er, n.

Defn: See Lecher, n. Marston.

LECHEROUS
Lech"er*ous, a.

Defn: Like a lecher; addicted to lewdness; lustful; also, lust-
provoking. "A lecherous thing is wine." Chaucer.
 -- Lech"er*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Lech"er*ous*ness, n.

LECHERY
Lech"er*y, n. Etym: [OE. lecherie, OF. lecherie. See Lecher.]

1. Free indulgence of lust; lewdness.

2. Selfish pleasure; delight. [Obs.] Massinger.

LECITHIN
Lec"i*thin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A complex, nitrogenous phosphorized substance widely
distributed through the animal body, and especially conspicuous in
the brain and nerve tissue, in yolk of eggs, and in the white blood
corpuscles.

LECTERN
lec"tern, n.

Defn: See Lecturn.

LECTICA
Lec*ti"ca, n.; pl. Lecticæ. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A kind of litter or portable couch.

LECTION
Lec"tion, n. Etym: [L. lectio, fr. legere, lectum, to read. See
lesson, Legend.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: A lesson or selection, esp. of Scripture, read in divine
service.

2. A reading; a variation in the text.
We ourselves are offended by the obtrusion of the new lections into
the text. De Quincey.

LECTIONARY
Lec"tion*a*ry, n.; pl. -ries. Etym: [LL. lectionarium, lectionarius :
cf. F. lectionnaire.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A book, or a list, of lections, for reading in divine service.

LECTOR
Lec"tor, n. Etym: [L. See Lection.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A reader of lections; formerly, a person designated to read
lessons to the illiterate.

LECTUAL
Lec"tu*al, a. Etym: [LL. lectualis, fr. L. lectus bed.] (Med.)

Defn: Confining to the bed; as, a lectual disease.

LECTURE
Lec"ture, n. Etym: [F. lecture, LL. lectura, fr. L. legere, lectum,
to read. See Legend.]

1. The act of reading; as, the lecture of Holy Scripture. [Obs.]

2. A discourse on any subject; especially, a formal or methodical
discourse, intended for instruction; sometimes, a familiar discourse,
in contrast with a sermon.

3. A reprimand or formal reproof from one having authority.

4. (Eng. Universities)

Defn: A rehearsal of a lesson.

LECTURE
Lec"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lectured; p. pr. & vb. n. Lecturing.]

1. To read or deliver a lecture to.

2. To reprove formally and with authority.

LECTURE
Lec"ture, v. i.

Defn: To deliver a lecture or lectures.

LECTURER
Lec"tur*er, n.

Defn: One who lectures; an assistant preacher.

LECTURESHIP
Lec"ture*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a lecturer.

LECTURN
Lec"turn, n. Etym: [LL. lectrinum, fr. lectrum; cf. L. legere,
lectum, to read.]

Defn: A choir desk, or reading desk, in some churches, from which the
lections, or Scripture lessons, are chanted or read; hence, a reading
desk. [Written also lectern and lettern]. Fairholt.

LECYTHIS
Lec"y*this, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. 3 an oil flask.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of gigantic trees, chiefly Brazilian, of the order
Myrtaceæ, having woody capsules opening by an apical lid. Lecythis
Zabucajo yields the delicious sapucaia nuts. L. Ollaria produces the
monkey-pots, its capsules. Its bark separates into thin sheets, like
paper, used by the natives for cigarette wrappers.

LED
Led, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Lead. Led captain. An obsequious follower or attendant.
[Obs.] Swift.
 -- Led horse, a sumpter horse, or a spare horse, that is led along.

LEDEN; LEDDEN
Led"en, Led"den n. Etym: [AS. l, l, language, speech. Cf. Leod.]

Defn: Language; speech; voice; cry. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

LEDGE
Ledge, n. Etym: [Akin to AS. licgan to lie, Icel. liggja; cf. Icel.
lögg the ledge or rim at the bottom of a cask. See Lie to be
prostrate.] [Formerly written lidge.]

1. A shelf on which articles may be laid; also, that which resembles
such a shelf in form or use, as a projecting ridge or part, or a
molding or edge in joinery.

2. A shelf, ridge, or reef, of rocks.

3. A layer or stratum.
The lowest ledge or row should be of stone. Sir H. Wotton.

4. (Mining)

Defn: A lode; a limited mass of rock bearing valuable mineral.

5. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A piece of timber to support the deck, placed athwartship
between beams.

LEDGEMENT
Ledge"ment, n.

Defn: See Ledgment.

LEDGER
Ledg"er, n. Etym: [Akin to D. legger layer, daybook (fr. leggen to
lay, liggen to lie), E. ledge, lie. See Lie to be prostrate.]

1. A book in which a summary of accounts is laid up or preserved; the
final book of record in business transactions, in which all debits
and credits from the journal, etc., are placed under appropriate
heads. [Written also leger.]

2. (Arch.)
(a) A large flat stone, esp. one laid over a tomb. Oxf. Gloss.
(b) A horizontal piece of timber secured to the uprights and
supporting floor timbers, a staircase, scaffolding, or the like. It
differs from an intertie in being intended to carry weight. [Written
also ligger.] Ledger bait, fishing bait attached to a floating line
fastened to the bank of a stream, pond, etc. Walton. J. H. Walsh.
 -- Ledger line. See Leger line, under 3d Leger, a.
 -- Ledger wall (Mining), the wall under a vein; the foot wall.
Raymond.

LEDGMENT
Ledg"ment, n. (Arch.)
(a) A string-course or horizontal suit of moldings, such as the base
moldings of a building. Oxf. Gloss.
(b) The development of the surface of a body on a plane, so that the
dimensions of the different sides may be easily ascertained. Gwilt.
[Written also ledgement, legement, and ligement.]

LEDGY
Ledg"y, a.

Defn: Abounding in ledges; consisting of a ledge or reef; as, a ledgy
island.

LEE
Lee, v

Defn: , i, To lie; to speak falsely. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEE
Lee, n.; pl. Lees. Etym: [F. lie, perh. fr. L. levare to lift up,
raise. Cf. Lever.]

Defn: That which settles at the bottom, as, of a cask of liquor (esp.
wine); sediment; dregs; -- used now only in the plural. [Lees occurs
also as a form of the singular.] "The lees of wine." Holland.
A thousand demons lurk within the lee. Young.
The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees Is left this vault to
brag of. Shak.

LEE
Lee, n. Etym: [OE. lee shelter, Icel. hl, akin to AS. hleó, hleów,
shelter, protection, OS. hlèo, D. lij lee, Sw. lä, Dan. læ.]

1. A sheltered place; esp., a place; protected from the wind by some
object; the side sheltered from the wind; shelter; protection; as,
the lee of a mountain, an island, or a ship.
We lurked under lee. Morte d'Arthure.
Desiring me to take shelter in his lee. Tyndall.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: That part of the hemisphere, as one stands on shipboard, toward
which the wind blows. See Lee, a. By the lee, To bring by the lee.
See under By, and Bring.
 -- Under the lee of, on that side which is sheltered from the wind;
as, to be under the lee of a ship.

LEE
Lee, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the part or side opposite to that against
which the wind blows; -- opposed to weather; as, the lee side or lee
rail of a vessel. Lee gauge. See Gauge, n. (Naut.) -- Lee shore, the
shore on the lee side of a vessel.
 -- Lee tide, a tide running in the same direction that the wind
blows.
 -- On the lee beam, directly to the leeward; in a line at right
angles to the length of the vessel and to the leeward.

LEEANGLE; LIANGLE
Lee"an`gle, Li"an`gle, n. [From native name.]

Defn: A heavy weapon of the Australian aborigines with a sharp-
pointed end, about nine inches in length, projecting at right angles
from the main part.

LEEBOARD
Lee"board`, n.

Defn: A board, or frame of planks, lowered over the side of a vessel
to lessen her leeway when closehauled, by giving her greater draught.

LEECH
Leech, n.

Defn: See 2d Leach.

LEECH
Leech, v. t.

Defn: See Leach, v. t.

LEECH
Leech, n. Etym: [Cf. LG. leik, Icel. lik, Sw. lik boltrope, stliken
the leeches.] (Naut.)

Defn: The border or edge at the side of a sail. [Written also leach.]
Leech line, a line attached to the leech ropes of sails, passing up
through blocks on the yards, to haul the leeches by. Totten.
 -- Leech rope, that part of the boltrope to which the side of a sail
is sewed.

LEECH
Leech, n. Etym: [OE. leche, læche, physician, AS. l; akin to Fries.
l, OHG. lahhi, Icel. læknari, Sw. läkare, Dan. læge, Goth. l, AS.
lacnian to heal, Sw. läka, Dan.læge, Icel. lækna, Goth. l.]

1. physician or surgeon; a professor of the art of healing. [Written
also leach.] [Archaic] Spenser.
Leech, heal thyself. Wyclif (Luke iv. 23).

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous genera and species of annulose worms,
belonging to the order Hirudinea, or Bdelloidea, esp. those species
used in medicine, as Hirudo medicinalis of Europe, and allied
species.

Note: In the mouth of bloodsucking leeches are three convergent,
serrated jaws, moved by strong muscles. By the motion of these jaws a
stellate incision is made in the skin, through which the leech sucks
blood till it is gorged, and then drops off. The stomach has large
pouches on each side to hold the blood. The common large bloodsucking
leech of America (Macrobdella decora) is dark olive above, and red
below, with black spots. Many kinds of leeches are parasitic on
fishes; others feed upon worms and mollusks, and have no jaws for
drawing blood. See Bdelloidea. Hirudinea, and Clepsine.

3. (Surg.)

Defn: A glass tube of peculiar construction, adapted for drawing
blood from a scarified part by means of a vacuum. Horse leech, a less
powerful European leech (Hæmopis vorax), commonly attacking the
membrane that lines the inside of the mouth and nostrils of animals
that drink at pools where it lives.

LEECH
Leech, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leeched; p. pr. & vb. n. Leeching.]

1. To treat as a surgeon; to doctor; as, to leech wounds. [Archaic]

2. To bleed by the use of leeches.

LEECHCRAFT
Leech"craft`, n.

Defn: The art of healing; skill of a physician. [Archaic] Chaucer.

LEED; LEEDE
Leed, Leede, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A caldron; a copper kettle. [Obs.] "A furnace of a leed."
Chaucer.

LEEF
Leef, a. & adv.

Defn: See Lief. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEEK
Leek, n. Etym: [AS.leác; akin to D. look, G. lauch, OHG. louh, Icel.
laukr, Sw. lök, Dan lög. Cf. Garlic.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Allium (A. Porrum), having broadly linear
succulent leaves rising from a loose oblong cylindrical bulb. The
flavor is stronger than that of the common onion. Wild leek , in
America, a plant (Allium tricoccum) with a cluster of ovoid bulbs and
large oblong elliptical leaves.

LEEME
Leeme, v. & n.

Defn: See Leme. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEEP
Leep, obs. strong imp.

Defn: of Leap. leaped.

LEER
Leer, v. t.

Defn: To learn. [Obs.] See Lere, to learn.

LEER
Leer, a. Etym: [OE. lere; akin to G. leer, OHG. & OS. lari.] [Obs. or
Prov. Eng.]

Defn: Empty; destitute; wanting; as:
(a) Empty of contents. "A leer stomach." Gifford.
(b) Destitute of a rider; and hence, led, not ridden; as, a leer
horse. B. Jonson.
(c) Wanting sense or seriousness; trifling; trivolous; as, leer
words.

LEER
Leer, n.

Defn: An oven in which glassware is annealed.

LEER
Leer, n. Etym: [OE.lere cheek, face, look, AS. hleór cheek, face;
akin to OS. hlear, hlior, OD. lier, Icel. hl.]

1. The cheek. [Obs.] Holinshed.

2. complexion; aspect; appearance. [Obs.]
A Rosalind of a better leer than you. Shak.

3. A distorted expression of the face, or an indirect glance of the
eye, conveying a sinister or immodest suggestion.
With jealous leer malign Eyed them askance. Milton.
She gives the leer of invitation. Shak.
Damn with faint praise, assent with civil leer. Pope.

LEER
Leer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leered; p. pr. & vb. n. Leering.]

Defn: To look with a leer; to look askance with a suggestive
expression, as of hatred, contempt, lust, etc. ; to cast a sidelong
lustful or malign look.
I will leer him as a'comes by. Shak.
The priest, above his book, Leering at his neighbor's wife. Tennyson.

LEER
Leer, v. t.

Defn: To entice with a leer, or leers; as, to leer a man to ruin.
Dryden.

LEERE
Leere, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Tape or braid; an ornament. Halliwell. Leere side, the left
side, as that on which a leere or ornament was worn. B. Jonson.

LEERINGLY
Leer"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a leering manner.

LEES
Lees, n. pl.

Defn: Dregs. See 2d Lee.

LEES
Lees, n.

Defn: A leash. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEESE
Leese, v. t. Etym: [See Lose.]

Defn: To lose. [Obs.]
They would rather leese their friend than their jest. Lord Burleigh.

LEESE
Leese, v. t. Etym: [Cf. f. léser, L.laesus, p. p. of laedere.]

Defn: To hurt. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

LEET
Leet, obs. imp.

Defn: of Let, to allow. Chaucer.

LEET
Leet n. Etym: [Cf. AS. hl share, lot.]

Defn: A portion; a list, esp. a list of candidates for an office.
[Scot.]

LEET
Leet, n. Etym: [LL.leta. Cf. F. lit de justice a solemn sitting of
the king in Parliament, L. lis, litis, a lawsuit, It., Sp., & Pg.
lite.] (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A court-leet; the district within the jurisdiction of a court-
leet; the day on which a court-leet is held. Shak.

Note: The original intent of the court-leet was to view the
frankpledges or freemen within the liberty; hence called the view of
frankpledge. Latterly it has fallen into almost entire disuse.
Burrill. Warren's Blackstone. Leet ale, a feast or merrymaking in
time of leet. [Obs.]

LEET
Leet, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European pollock.

LEETMAN
Leet"man, n.; pl. Leetmen (.

Defn: One subject to the jurisdiction of a court-leet.

LEEWARD
Lee"ward, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or in the direction of, the part or side toward
which the wind blows; -- opposed to windward; as, a leeward berth; a
leeward ship.
 -- n.

Defn: The lee side; the lee.
 -- adv.

Defn: Toward the lee.

LEEWAY
Lee"way`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The lateral movement of a ship to the leeward of her course;
drift.

LEFT
Left, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Leave.

LEFT
Left, a. Etym: [OE. left, lift, luft; akin to Fries. leeft, OD.lucht,
luft; cf. AS.left (equiv. to L. inanis), lyftadl palsy; or cf. AS.l
weak.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to that side of the body in man on which the
muscular action of the limbs is usually weaker than on the other
side; -- opposed to right, when used in reference to a part of the
body; as, the left ear. Also said of the corresponding side of the
lower animals. Left bank of a river, that which is on the left hand
of a person whose face is turned downstream.
 -- Left bower. See under 2d Bower.
 -- Left center, the members whose sympathies are, in the main, with
the members of the Left, but who do not favor extreme courses, and on
occasions vote with the government. They sit between the Center and
the extreme Left.
 -- Over the left shoulder, or Over the left, an old but still
current colloquialism, or slang expression, used as an aside to
indicate insincerity, negation, or disbelief; as, he said it, and it
is true, -- over the left.

LEFT
Left, n.

1. that part of surrounding space toward which the left side of one's
body is turned; as, the house is on the left when you face North.
Put that rose a little more to the left. Ld. Lytton.

2. those members of a legislative assembly (as in France) who are in
the opposition; the advanced republicans and extreme radicals. They
have their seats at the left-hand side of the presiding officer. See
Center, and Right.

LEFT-HAND
Left"-hand`, a.

Defn: Situated on the left; nearer the left hand than the right; as,
the left-hand side; the left-hand road. Left-hand rope, rope laid up
and twisted over from right to left, or against the sun; -- called
also water-laid rope.

LEFT-HANDED
Left"-hand`ed, a.

1. Having the left hand or arm stronger and more dexterous than the
right; using the left hand and arm with more dexterity than the
right.

2. Clumsy; awkward; unlucky; insincere; sinister; malicious; as, a
left-handed compliment.
The commendations of this people are not always left-handed and
detractive. Landor.

3. Having a direction contrary to that of the hands of a watch when
seen in front; -- said of a twist, a rotary motion, etc., looked at
from a given direction. Left-handed marriage, a morganatic marriage.
See Morganatic.
 -- Left-handed screw, a screw constructed to advance away from the
observer, when turned, as in a nut, with a left-handed rotation. An
ordinary wood screw is right-handed.

LEFT-HANDEDNESS; LEFT-HANDINESS
Left"-hand`ed*ness, Left"-hand`i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being left-handed; awkwardness.
An awkward address, ungraceful attitudes and actions, and a certain
left-handiness (if I may use the expression) proclaim low education.
Chesterfield.

LEFT-OFF
Left"-off", a.

Defn: Laid a side; cast-off.

LEFTWARD
Left"ward, adv.

Defn: Toward or on the left side.
Rightward and leftward rise the rocks. Southey.

LEFUL
Le"ful, a.

Defn: See Leveful. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEG
Leg, n. Etym: [Icel. leggr; akin to Dan. læg calf of the leg, Sw.
lägg.]

1. A limb or member of an animal used for supporting the body, and in
running, climbing, and swimming; esp., that part of the limb between
the knee and foot.

2. That which resembles a leg in form or use; especially, any long
and slender support on which any object rests; as, the leg of a
table; the leg of pair of compasses or dividers.

3. The part of any article of clothing which covers the leg; as, the
leg of a stocking or of a pair of trousers.

4. A bow, esp. in the phrase to make a leg; probably from drawing the
leg backward in bowing. [Obs.]
He that will give a cap and make a leg in thanks for a favor he never
received. Fuller.

5. A disreputable sporting character; a blackleg. [Slang, Eng.]

6. (Naut.)

Defn: The course and distance made by a vessel on one tack or between
tacks.

7. (Steam Boiler)

Defn: An extension of the boiler downward, in the form of a narrow
space between vertical plates, sometimes nearly surrounding the
furnace and ash pit, and serving to support the boiler; -- called
also water leg.

8. (Grain Elevator)

Defn: The case containing the lower part of the belt which carries
the buckets.

9. (Cricket)

Defn: A fielder whose position is on the outside, a little in rear of
the batter. A good leg (Naut.), a course sailed on a tack which is
near the desired course.
 -- Leg bail, escape from custody by flight. [Slang] -- Legs of an
hyperbola (or other curve) (Geom.), the branches of the curve which
extend outward indefinitely.
 -- Legs of a triangle, the sides of a triangle; -- a name seldom
used unless one of the sides is first distinguished by some
appropriate term; as, the hypothenuse and two legs of a right-angled
triangle. On one's legs, standing to speak.
 -- One's last legs. See under Last.
 -- To have legs (Naut.), to have speed.
 -- To stand on one's own legs, to support one's self; to be
independent.

LEG
Leg, v. t.

Defn: To use as a leg, with it as object: (a) To bow. [Obs.] (b) To
run [Low]

LEGACY
Leg"a*cy, n.; pl.Legacies. Etym: [L. (assumed) legatia, for legatum,
from legare to appoint by last will, to bequeath as a legacy, to
depute: cf. OF. legat legacy. See Legate.]

1. A gift of property by will, esp. of money or personal property; a
bequest. Also Fig.; as, a legacy of dishonor or disease.

2. A business with which one is intrusted by another; a commission; -
- obsolete, except in the phrases last legacy, dying legacy, and the
like.
My legacy and message wherefore I am sent into the world. Tyndale.
He came and told his legacy. Chapman.
Legacy duty, a tax paid to government on legacies. Wharton.
 -- Legacy hunter, one who flatters and courts any one for the sake
of a legacy.

LEGAL
Le"gal, a. Etym: [L. legalis, fr. lex, legis, law; prob. orig., that
which lies or is fixed (cf. L. lectus bed), and if so akin to E. lie,
law: cf. F. légal. Cf. Lie to be prostrate, Loyal, Leal.]

1. Created by, permitted by, in conformity with, or relating to, law;
as, a legal obligation; a legal standard or test; a legal procedure;
a legal claim; a legal trade; anything is legal which the laws do not
forbid.

2. (Theol.)
(a) According to the law of works, as distinguished from free grace;
or resting on works for salvation.
(b) According to the old or Mosaic dispensation; in accordance with
the law of Moses

3. (Law)

Defn: Governed by the rules of law as distinguished from the rules of
equity; as, legal estate; legal assets. Bouvier. Burrill. Legal cap.
See under Cap.
 -- Legal tender. (a) The act of tendering in the performance of a
contract or satisfaction of a claim that which the law prescribes or
permits, and at such time and place as the law prescribes or permits.
(b) That currency, or money, which the law authorizes a debtor to
tender and requires a creditor to receive. It differs in different
countries.

Syn.
 -- Lawful; constitutional; legitimate; licit; authorized. See
Lawful.

LEGALISM
Le"gal*ism, n.

Defn: Strictness, or the doctrine of strictness, in conforming to
law.

LEGALIST
Le"gal*ist, n.

Defn: One who practices or advocates strict conformity to law; in
theology, one who holds to the law of works. See Legal, 2 (a).

LEGALITY
Le*gal"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. legalitas, F. légalité. Cf. Loyalty.]

1. The state or quality of being letter of the law.

LEGALIZATION
Le`gal*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of making legal.

LEGALIZE
Le"gal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Legalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Legalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. légaliser.]

1. To make legal.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: To interpret or apply in a legal spirit.

LEGALLY
Le"gal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a legal manner.

LEGANTINE
Le*gan"tine, a. [Obs.]

Defn: See Legatine.

LEGATARY
Leg"a*ta*ry, n. Etym: [L. legatarius, fr. legaturius enjoined by a
last will: cf. F. légataire. See Legacy.]

Defn: A legatee. [R.] Ayliffe.

LEGATE
Leg"ate, n. Etym: [OE. legal, L. legatus, fr. legare to sent with a
commission or charge, to depute, fr. lex, legis, law: cf. F. légat,
It. legato. See Legal.]

1. An ambassador or envoy.

2. An ecclesiastic representing the pope and invested with the
authority of the Holy See.

Note: Legates are of three kinds: (a) Legates a latere, now always
cardinals. They are called ordinary or extraordinary legates, the
former governing provinces, and the latter class being sent to
foreign countries on extraordinary occasions. (b) Legati missi, who
correspond to the ambassadors of temporal governments. (c) Legati
nati, or legates by virtue of their office, as the archbishops of
Salzburg and Prague.

3. (Rom. Hist.)
(a) An official assistant given to a general or to the governor of a
province.
(b) Under the emperors, a governor sent to a province.

LEGATEE
Leg`a*tee", n. Etym: [See Legacy.] (Law)

Defn: One to whom a legacy is bequeathed.

LEGATESHIP
Leg"ate*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a legate.

LEGATINE
Leg"a*tine, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a legate; as, legatine power. Holinshed.

2. Made by, proceeding from, or under the sanction of, a legate; as,
a legatine constitution. Ayliffe.

LEGATION
Le*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. legatio: cf. F. légation, It. legazione. See
Legate.]

1. The sending forth or commissioning one person to act for another.
"The Divine legation of Moses." Bp. Warburton.

2. A legate, or envoy, and the persons associated with him in his
mission; an embassy; or, in stricter usage, a diplomatic minister and
his suite; a deputation.

3. The place of business or official residence of a diplomatic
minister at a foreign court or seat of government.

4. A district under the jurisdiction of a legate.

LEGATO
Le*ga"to, a. Etym: [It., tied, joined, fr. legare to tie, bind, L.
ligare.] (Mus.)

Defn: Connected; tied; -- a term used when successive tones are to be
produced in a closely connected, smoothly gliding manner. It is often
indicated by a tie, thus staccato.

LEGATOR
Leg`a*tor", n. Etym: [L., fr. legare: cf. OF. legateur. See Legacy.]
(Law)

Defn: A testator; one who bequeaths a legacy. Dryden.

LEGATURA
Le`ga*tu"ra, n. Etym: [It. See Ligature.] (Mus.)

Defn: A tie or brace; a syncopation.

LEGATURE
Leg"a*ture, n.

Defn: Legateship. [Obs.]

LEG BRIDGE
Leg bridge.

Defn: A type of bridge for small spans in which the floor girders are
rigidly secured at their extremities to supporting steel legs, driven
into the round as piling, or resting on mudsills.

LEGE
Lege, v. t. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. allege to assert.]

Defn: To allege; to assert. [Obs.] Bp. Fisher.

LEGEMENT
Lege"ment, n.

Defn: See Ledgment.

LEGEND
Leg"end, n. Etym: [OE. legende, OF. legende, F. légende, LL. legenda,
fr. L. legendus to be read, fr. legere to read, gather; akin to Gr.
Collect, Dialogue, Lesson, Logic.]

1. That which is appointed to be read; especially, a chronicle or
register of the lives of saints, formerly read at matins, and in the
refectories of religious houses.

2. A story respecting saints; especially, one of a marvelous nature.
Addison.

3. Any wonderful story coming down from the past, but not verifiable
by historical record; a myth; a fable.
And in this legend all that glorious deed. Read, whilst you arm you.
Fairfax.

4. An inscription, motto, or title, esp. one surrounding the field in
a medal or coin, or placed upon an heraldic shield or beneath an
engraving or illustration. Golden legend. See under Golden.

LEGEND
Leg"end, v. t.

Defn: To tell or narrate, as a legend. Bp. Hall.

LEGENDARY
Leg"end*a*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a legend or to legends; consisting of
legends; like a legend; fabulous. "Legendary writers." Bp. Lloyd.
Legendary stories of nurses and old women. Bourne.

LEGENDARY
Leg"end*a*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. legendaire, LL. legendarius.]

1. A book of legends; a tale or parrative.
Read the Countess of Pembroke's "Arcadia," a gallant legendary full
of pleasurable accidents. James I.

2. One who relates legends. Bp. Lavington.

LEGER
Leg"er, n. Etym: [See Ledger.]

1. Anything that lies in a place; that which, or one who, remains in
a place. [Obs.]

2. A minister or ambassador resident at a court or seat of
government. [Written also lieger, leiger.] [Obs.]
Sir Edward Carne, the queen's leger at Rome. Fuller.

3. A ledger.

LEGER
Leg"er, a.

Defn: Lying or remaining in a place; hence, resident; as, leger
ambassador.

LEGER
Leg"er, a. Etym: [F. léger, fr. LL. (assumed) leviarius, fr. L. levis
light in weight. See Levity.]

Defn: Light; slender; slim; trivial. [Obs. except in special
phrases.] Bacon. Leger line (Mus.), a line added above or below the
staff to extend its compass; -- called also added line.

LEGERDEMAIN
Leg`er*de*main", n. Etym: [F. léger light, nimble + de of + main
hand, L. manus. See 3d Leger, and Manual.]

Defn: Sleight of hand; a trick of sleight of hand; hence, any artful
deception or trick.
He of legierdemayne the mysteries did know. Spenser.
The tricks and legerdemain by which men impose upon their own souls.
South.

LEGERDEMAINIST
Leg`er*de*main"ist, n.

Defn: One who practices sleight of hand; a prestidigitator.

LEGERITY
Le*ger"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. légèreté. See 3d Leger.]

Defn: Lightness; nimbleness [Archaic] Shak.

LEGGE
Legge, v. t. Etym: [See Lay, v. t. ]

Defn: To lay. [Obs.]

LEGGE
Legge, v. t. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. alegge.]

Defn: To lighten; to allay. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

LEGGED
Legged, a. Etym: [From Leg.]

Defn: Having (such or so many) legs; -- used in composition; as, a
long-legged man; a two-legged animal.

LEGGIADRO; LEGGIERO
Leg`gi*a"dro, Leg`gi*e"ro, a. & adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Light or graceful; in a light, delicate, and brick style.

LEGGING; LEGGIN
Leg"ging, Leg"gin, n. Etym: [From Leg.]

Defn: A cover for the leg, like a long gaiter.

LEGGING
Leg"ging, a. & vb. n.

Defn: , from Leg, v. t.

LEGGY
Leg"gy (-gy), a.

Defn: Having long legs. Thackeray.

LEGHORN
Leg"horn, n.

Defn: A straw plaiting used for bonnets and hats, made from the straw
of a particular kind of wheat, grown for the purpose in Tuscany,
Italy; -- so called from Leghorn, the place of exportation.

LEGIBILITY
Leg`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being legible; legibleness. Sir. D. Brewster.

LEGIBLE
Leg"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. legibilis, fr. legere to read: cf. OF.
legible. See Legend.]

1. Capable of being read or deciphered; distinct to the eye; plain; -
- used of writing or printing; as, a fair, legible manuscript.
The stone with moss and lichens so overspread, Nothing is legible but
the name alone. Longfellow.

2. Capable of being discovered or understood by apparent marks or
indications; as, the thoughts of men are often legible in their
countenances.

LEGIBLENESS
Leg"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being legible.

LEGIBLY
Leg"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In a legible manner.

LEGIFIC
Le*gif"ic, a. Etym: [L. lex, legis, law + -ficare (in comp.) to make.
See -fy.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to making laws.
Practically, in many cases, authority or legific competence has begun
in bare power. J. Grote.

LEGION
Le"gion, n. Etym: [OE. legioun, OF. legion, F. légion, fr. L. legio,
fr. legere to gather, collect. See Legend.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A body of foot soldiers and cavalry consisting of different
numbers at different periods, -- from about four thousand to about
six thousand men, -- the cavalry being about one tenth.

2. A military force; an army; military bands.

3. A great number; a multitude.
Where one sin has entered,legions will force their way through the
same breach. Rogers.

4. (Taxonomy)

Defn: A group of orders inferior to a class. Legion of honor, an
order instituted by the French government in 1802, when Bonaparte was
First Consul, as a reward for merit, both civil and military.

LEGIONARY
Le"gion*a*ry, a. Etym: [L.legionarius: cf. F. légionnaire.]

Defn: Belonging to a legion; consisting of a legion or legions, or of
an indefinitely great number; as, legionary soldiers; a legionary
force. "The legionary body of error." Sir T. Browne.

LEGIONARY
Le"gion*a*ry, n.; pl. Legionaries (.

Defn: A member of a legion. Milton.

LEGIONED
Le"gioned, a.

Defn: Formed into a legion or legions; legionary. Shelley.

LEGIONRY
Le"gion*ry, n.

Defn: A body of legions; legions, collectively. [R.] Pollok.

LEGISLATE
Leg"is*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Legislated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Legislating.] Etym: [See Legislator.]

Defn: To make or enact a law or laws.
Solon, in legislating for the Athenians, had an idea of a more
perfect constitution than he gave them. Bp. Watson (1805).

LEGISLATION
Leg`is*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. législation, L. legis latio. See
Legislator.]

Defn: The act of legislating; preparation and enactment of laws; the
laws enacted.
Pythagoras joined legislation to his philosophy. Lyttelton.

LEGISLATIVE
Leg"is*la*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. législatij.]

1. Making, or having the power to make, a law or laws; lawmaking; --
distinguished from executive; as, a legislative act; a legislative
body.
The supreme legislative power of England was lodged in the king and
great council, or what was afterwards called the Parliament. Hume.

2. Of or pertaining to the making of laws; suitable to legislation;
as, the transaction of legislative business; the legislative style.

LEGISLATIVELY
Leg"is*la*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a legislative manner.

LEGISLATOR
Leg"is*la`tor, n. Etym: [L. legis lator, prop., a proposer of a law;
lex, legis, law + lator a proposer, bearer, fr. latus, used as p. p.
of ferre to bear: cf. F. législateur. See Legal, and Tolerate.]

Defn: A lawgiver; one who makes laws for a state or community; a
member of a legislative body.
The legislators in ancient and heroical times. Bacon.
Many of the legislators themselves had taken an oath of abjuration of
his Majesty's person and family. E. Phillips.

LEGISLATORIAL
Leg`is*la*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a legislator or legislature.

LEGISLATORSHIP
Leg"is*la`tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a legislator. Halifax.

LEGISLATRESS; LEGISLATRIX
Leg"is*la`tress, Leg"is*la`trix, n.

Defn: A woman who makes laws. Shaftesbury.

LEGISLATURE
Leg"is*la`ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. législature.]

Defn: The body of persons in a state or kingdom invested with power
to make and repeal laws; a legislative body.
Without the concurrent consent of all three parts of the legislature,
no law is, or can be, made. Sir M. Hale.

Note: The legislature of Great Britain consists of the Lords and
Commons, with the king or queen, whose sanction is necessary to every
bill before it becomes a law. The legislatures of most of the United
States consist of two houses or branches; but the sanction or consent
of the governor is required to give their acts the force of law, or a
concurrence of two thirds of the two houses after he has refused his
sanction and assigned his objections.

LEGIST
Le"gist, n. Etym: [F. légiste, LL. legista, fr. L. lex, legis, law.
See Legal.]

Defn: One skilled in the laws; a writer on law. Milman. J. Morley.

LEGITIM
Le*git"im, n. Etym: [See Legitimate, a.] (Scots Law)

Defn: The portion of movable estate to which the children are
entitled upon the death of the father.

LEGITIMACY
Le*git"i*ma*cy, n. Etym: [See Legitimate, a.]

Defn: The state, or quality, of being legitimate, or in conformity
with law; hence, the condition of having been lawfully begotten, or
born in wedlock.
The doctrine of Divine Right, which has now come back to us, like a
thief from transportation, under the alias of Legitimacy. Macaulay.

LEGITIMATE
Le*git"i*mate, a. Etym: [LL. legitimatus, p. p. of legitimare to
legitimate, fr. L. legitimus legitimate. See Legal.]

1. Accordant with law or with established legal forms and
requirements; lawful; as, legitimate government; legitimate rights;
the legitimate succession to the throne; a legitimate proceeding of
an officer; a legitimate heir.

2. Lawfully begotten; born in wedlock.

3. Authorized; real; genuine; not false, counterfeit, or spurious;
as, legitimate poems of Chaucer; legitimate inscriptions.

4. Conforming to known principles, or accepted rules; as, legitimate
reasoning; a legitimate standard, or method; a legitimate combination
of colors.
Tillotson still keeps his place as a legitimate English classic.
Macaulay.

5. Following by logical sequence; reasonable; as, a legitimate
result; a legitimate inference.

LEGITIMATE
Le*git"i*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Legitimated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Legitimating.]

Defn: To make legitimate, lawful, or valid; esp., to put in the
position or state of a legitimate person before the law, by legal
means; as, to legitimate a bastard child.
To enact a statute of that which he dares not seem to approve, even
to legitimate vice. Milton.

LEGITIMATELY
Le*git"i*mate*ly, adv.

Defn: In a legitimate manner; lawfully; genuinely.

LEGITIMATENESS
Le*git"i*mate*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being legitimate; lawfulness;
genuineness.

LEGITIMATION
Le*git`i*ma"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. légitimation.]

1. The act of making legitimate.
The coining or legitimation of money. East.

2. Lawful birth. [R.] Shak.

LEGITIMATIST
Le*git"i*ma*tist, n.

Defn: See Legitimist.

LEGITIMATIZE
Le*git"i*ma*tize, v. t.

Defn: To legitimate.

LEGITIMISM
Le*git"i*mism, n.

Defn: The principles or plans of legitimists.

LEGITIMIST
Le*git"i*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. légitimiste.]

1. One who supports legitimate authority; esp., one who believes in
hereditary monarchy, as a divine right.

2. Specifically, a supporter of the claims of the elder branch of the
Bourbon dynasty to the crown of France.

LEGITIMIZE
Le*git"i*mize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Legitimized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Legitimizing.]

Defn: To legitimate.

LEGLESS
Leg"less, a.

Defn: Not having a leg.

LEG-OF-MUTTON
Leg"-of-mut"ton, a.

Defn: Having the general shape or outline of a leg of mutton; as, a
leg-of-mutton, or shoulder-of-mutton, sail.

LEGO-LITERARY
Le"go-lit"er*a*ry, a. Etym: [See Legal, and Literary.]

Defn: Pertaining to the literature of law.

LEGULEIAN
Le`gu*le"ian, a. Etym: [L. leguleius pettifogger, fr. lex, legis,
law.]

Defn: Lawyerlike; legal. [R.] "Leguleian barbarism." De Quincey.
 -- n.

Defn: A lawyer.

LEGUME
Leg"ume, n. Etym: [F. légume, L. legumen, fr. legere to gather. So
called because they may be gathered without cutting. See Legend.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A pod dehiscent into two pieces or valves, and having the seed
attached at one suture, as that of the pea.

Note: In the latter circumstance, it differs from a siliqua, in which
the seeds are attached to both sutures. In popular use, a legume is
called a pod, or cod; as, pea pod, or peas cod.

2. pl.

Defn: The fruit of leguminous plants, as peas, beans, lupines; pulse.

LEGUMEN
Le*gu"men, n.; pl. L. Legumina, E. Legumens. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Same as Legume.

LEGUMIN
Le*gu"min, n. Etym: [Cf. F. légumine.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: An albuminous substance resembling casein, found as a
characteristic ingredient of the seeds of leguminous and grain-
bearing plants.

LEGUMINOUS
Le*gu"mi*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. légumineux.]

1. Pertaining to pulse; consisting of pulse.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, a very large natural order of
plants (Leguminosæ), which bear legumes, including peas, beans,
clover, locust trees, acacias, and mimosas.

LEIGER
Lei"ger, n. Etym: [See Leger, and Ledger.]

Defn: See Leger, n., 2. [Obs.] Shak.

LEIOTRICHAN
Lei*ot"ri*chan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Leiotrichi.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Leiotrichi.

LEIOTRICHI
Lei*ot"ri*chi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anthropol.)

Defn: The division of mankind which embraces the smooth-haired races.

LEIOTRICHOUS
Lei*ot"ri*chous, a. Etym: [See Leiotrichi.] (Anthropol.)

Defn: Having smooth, or nearly smooth, hair.

LEIPOA
Lei*po"a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Australian gallinaceous birds including but a single
species (Leipoa ocellata), about the size of a turkey. Its color is
variegated, drown, black, white, and gray. Called also native
pheasant.

Note: It makes large mounds of sand and vegetable material, in which
its eggs are laid to be hatched by the heat of the decomposing mass.

LEIPOTHYMIC
Lei`po*thym"ic, a.

Defn: See Lipothymic.

LEISTER; LISTER
Leis"ter, Lis"ter, n.

Defn: A spear armed with three or more prongs, for striking fish.
[Scotland]

LEISURABLE
Lei"sur*a*ble, a. Etym: [See Leisure.]

1. Leisurely. [Obs.] Hooker.

2. Vacant of employment; not occupied; idle; leisure; as leisurable
hours. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

LEISURABLY
Lei"sur*a*bly, adv.

Defn: At leisure. [Obs.]

LEISURE
Lei"sure n. Etym: [OE. leisere, leiser, OF.leisir, F. loisir, orig.,
permission, fr. L. licere to be permitted. See License.]

1. Freedom from occupation or business; vacant time; time free from
employment.
The desire of leisure is much more natural than of business and care.
Sir W. Temple.

2. Time at one's command, free from engagement; convenient
opportunity; hence, convenience; ease.
He sighed, and had no leisure more to say. Dryden.
At leisure. (a) Free from occupation; not busy. (b) In a leisurely
manner; at a convenient time.

LEISURE
Lei"sure, a.

Defn: Unemployed; as, leisure hours.

LEISURED
Lei"sured, a.

Defn: Having leisure. "The leisured classes." Gladstone.

LEISURELY
Lei"sure*ly, a.

Defn: Characterized by leisure; taking abundant tome; not hurried;
as, a leisurely manner; a leisurely walk.

LEISURELY
Lei"sure*ly, adv.

Defn: In a leisurely manner. Addison.

LEITMOTIF
Leit"mo*tif", n. Etym: [G.] (Mus.)

Defn: See Leading motive, under Leading, a.

LEMAN
Le"man, n. Etym: [OE. lemman, legman; AS.leóf dear + mann man. See
Lief, and Man.]

Defn: A sweetheart, of either sex; a gallant, or a mistress; --
usually in a bad sense. [Archaic] Chaucer. Spenser. Shak.

LEME
Leme, n. Etym: [OE. leem, leme, leam, AS. leóma light, brightness;
akin to E. light, n. sq. root122.]

Defn: A ray or glimmer of light; a gleam. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEME
Leme, v. i.

Defn: To shine. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

LEMMA
Lem"ma, n.; pl. L. Lemmata, E. Lemmas. Etym: [L. lemma, Gr.
Syllable.]

Defn: A preliminary or auxiliary proposition demonstrated or accepted
for immediate use in the demonstration of some other proposition, as
in mathematics or logic.

LEMMAN
Lem"man, n.

Defn: A leman. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEMMING
Lem"ming, n. Etym: [Nor. lemming, lemende; cf. Sw. lemel, Lapp.
lummik.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small arctic rodents of the
genera Myodes and Cuniculus, resembling the meadow mice in form. They
are found in both hemispheres.

Note: The common Northern European lemming (Myodes lemmus) is
remarkable for making occasional devastating migrations in enormous
numbers from the mountains into the lowlands.

LEMNIAN
Lem"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Lemnius, fr. Lemnus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the isle of Lemnos. Lemnian bole, Lemnian
earth, an aluminous earth of a grayish yellow color; sphragide; --
formerly sold as medicine, having astringent properties.
 -- Lemnian reddle, a reddle of firm consistence and deep red color;
-- used by artificers in coloring.

LEMNISCATA; LEMNISCATE
Lem`nis*ca"ta, Lem*nis"cate, n. Etym: [L. lemniscatus adorned with
ribbons, fr. lemniscus a ribbon having down, Gr. (Geom.)

Defn: A curve in the form of the figure 8, with both parts
symmetrical, generated by the point in which a tangent to an
equilateral hyperbola meets the perpendicular on it drawn from the
center.

LEMNISCUS
Lem*nis"cus, n.; pl. Lemnisci () Etym: [L. See Lemniscata.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of two oval bodies hanging from the interior walls of the
body in the Acanthocephala.

LEMON
Lem"on, n. Etym: [F. limon, Per. lim; cf. Ar.laim, Sp. limon, It.
limone. Cf. Lime a fruit.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An oval or roundish fruit resembling the orange, and containing
a pulp usually intensely acid. It is produced by a tropical tree of
the genus Citrus,the common fruit known in commerce being that of the
species C. Limonum or C. Medica (var. Limonum). There are many
varieties of the fruit, some of which are sweet.

2. The tree which bears lemons; the lemon tree. Lemon grass (Bot.), a
fragrant East Indian grass (Andropogon Shoenanthus, and perhaps other
allied species), which yields the grass oil used in perfumery.
 -- Lemon sole (Zoöl.), a yellow European sole (Solea aurantiaca).
 -- Salts of lemon (Chem.), a white crystalline substance,
inappropriately named, as it consists of an acid potassium oxalate
and contains no citric acid, which is the characteristic acid of
lemon; -- called also salis of sorrel. It is used in removing ink
stains. See Oxalic acid, under Oxalic. [Colloq.]

LEMONADE
Lem`on*ade", n. Etym: [F. limonade; cf. Sp. limonada, It. limonata.
See Lemon.]

Defn: A beverage consisting of lemon juice mixed with water and
sweetened.

LEMUR
Le"mur, n. Etym: [L., a ghost, specter. So called on account of its
habit of going abroad by night.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a family (Lemuridæ) of nocturnal mammals allied to the
monkeys, but of small size, and having a sharp and foxlike muzzle,
and large eyes. They feed upon birds, insects, and fruit, and are
mostly natives of Madagascar and the neighboring islands, one genus
(Galago) occurring in Africa. The slow lemur or kukang of the East
Indies is Nycticebus tardigradus. See Galago, Indris, and Colugo.

LEMURES
Lem"u*res, n. pl. Etym: [L. See Lemur.]

Defn: Spirits or ghosts of the departed; specters.
The Lars and Lemures moan with midnight plaint. Milton.

LEMURIA
Le*mu"ri*a, n. Etym: [So named from the supposition that it was the
original home of the lemurs.]

Defn: A hypothetical land, or continent, supposed by some to have
existed formerly in the Indian Ocean, of which Madagascar is a
remnant. Herschel.

LEMURID
Lem"u*rid, a. & n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Lemuroid.

LEMURIDOUS; LEMURINE
Le*mu"ri*dous, Lem"u*rine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Lemuroid.

LEMUROID
Lem"u*roid, a. Etym: [Lemur + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the lemurs or the Lemuroidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Lemuroidea.

LEMUROIDEA
Lem`u*roi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Lemur, and -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of primates, including the lemurs, the aye-aye, and
allied species. [Written also Lemuroida.]

LENA
Le"na, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A procuress. J. Webster.

LENARD RAYS
Le*nard" rays. (Physics.)

Defn: Rays emanating from the outer surface of a plate composed of
any material permeable by cathode rays, as aluminium, which forms a
portion of a wall of a vacuum tube, or which is mounted within the
tube and exposed to radiation from the cathode. Lenard rays are
similar in all their known properties to cathode rays. So called from
the German physicist Philipp Lenard (b. 1862), who first described
them.

LENARD TUBE
Lenard tube. (Elec.)

Defn: A tube for producing Lenard rays.

LEND
Lend, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lent ; p. pr. & vb. n. Lending.] Etym:
[OE.lenen, AS. l, fr. l loan; akin to G. lehnen to lend. See Loan.]

1. To allow the custody and use of, on condition of the return of the
same; to grant the temporary use of; as, to lend a book; -- opposed
to borrow.
Give me that ring. I'll lend it thee, my dear, but have no power To
give it from me. Shak.

2. To allow the possession and use of, on condition of the return of
an equivalent in kind; as, to lend money or some article of food.
Thou shalt not give him thy money upon usury, nor lend him thy
victuals for increase. Levit. xxv. 37.

3. To afford; to grant or furnish in general; as, to lend assistance;
to lend one's name or influence.
Cato, lend me for a while thy patience. Addison.
Mountain lines and distant horizons lend space and largeness to his
compositions. J. A. Symonds.

4. To let for hire or compensation; as, to lend a horse or gig.

Note: This use of the word is rare in the United States, except with
reference to money. To lend a hand, to give assistance; to help.
[Colloq.] -- To lend an ear or one's ears, to give attention.

LENDABLE
Lend"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be lent. Sherwood.

LENDER
Lend"er, n.

Defn: One who lends.
The borrower is servant to the lender. Prov. xxii. 7.

LENDES
Lend"es, n. pl.

Defn: See Lends. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LENDING
Lend"ing, n.

1. The act of one who lends.

2. That which is lent or furnished.

LENDS
Lends, n. pl. Etym: [AS. lend, lenden; akin to D. & G. lende, OHG.
lenti, Icel. lend, and perh to E. loin.]

Defn: Loins. [Obs.] Wyclif.

LENE
Lene, v. i. Etym: [See Lend.]

Defn: To lend; to grant; to permit. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LENE
Le"ne, a. Etym: [L. lenis smooth.] (Phonetics)
(a) Smooth; as, the lene breathing.
(b) Applied to certain mute consonants, as p, k, and t. (or Gr. p, k,
t.). W. E. Jelf.

LENE
Le"ne, n. (Phonetics)
(a) The smooth breathing (spiritus lenis).
(b) Any one of the lene consonants, as p, k, or i (or Gr. p, k, t.).
W. E. Jelf.

LENGER; LENGEST
Leng"er, Leng"est, a.

Defn: Longer; longest; -- obsolete compar. and superl. of long.
Chaucer.

LENGTH
Length, n. Etym: [OE. lengthe, AS. leng, fr. land, long, long; akin
to D. lengte, Dan. længde, Sw. längd, Icel. lengd. See Long, a. ]

1. The longest, or longer, dimension of any object, in distinction
from breadth or width; extent of anything from end to end; the
longest line which can be drawn through a body, parallel to its
sides; as, the length of a church, or of a ship; the length of a rope
or line.

2. A portion of space or of time considered as measured by its
length; -- often in the plural.
Large lengths of seas and shores. Shak.
The future but a length behind the past. Dryden.

3. The quality or state of being long, in space or time; extent;
duration; as, some sea birds are remarkable for the length of their
wings; he was tired by the length of the sermon, and the length of
his walk.

4. A single piece or subdivision of a series, or of a number of long
pieces which may be connected together; as, a length of pipe; a
length of fence.

5. Detail or amplification; unfolding; continuance as, to pursue a
subject to a great length.
May Heaven, great monarch, still augment your bliss. With length of
days and every day like this. Dryden.

6. Distance.[Obs.]
He had marched to the length of Exeter. Clarendon.
At length. (a) At or in the full extent; without abbreviation; as,
let the name be inserted at length. (b) At the end or conclusion;
after a long period. See Syn. of At last, under Last.
 -- At arm's length. See under Arm.

LENGTH
Length, v. i.

Defn: To lengthen. [Obs.] Shak.

LENGTHEN
Length"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lengthenel; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lengthening.]

Defn: To extent in length; to make longer in extent or duration; as,
to lengthen a line or a road; to lengthen life; -- sometimes followed
by out.
What if I please to lengthen out his date. Dryden.

LENGTHEN
Length"en, v. i.

Defn: To become longer. Locke.

LENGTHFUL
Length"ful, a.

Defn: Long. [Obs.] Pope.

LENGTHILY
Length"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lengthy manner; at great length or extent.

LENGTHINESS
Length"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being lengthy; prolixity.

LENGTHWAYS; LENGTHWISE
Length"ways`, Length"wise`, adv.

Defn: In the direction of the length; in a longitudinal direction.

LENGTHY
Length"y, a. [Compar. Lengthier; superl. Lengthiest.]

Defn: Having length; rather long or too long; prolix; not brief; --
said chiefly of discourses, writings, and the like. "Lengthy
periods." Washington. "Some lengthy additions." Byron. "These would
be details too lengthy." Jefferson. "To cut short lengthy
explanations." Trench.

LENIENCE; LENIENCY
Le"ni*ence, Le"ni*en*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being lenient; lenity; clemency.

LENIENT
Le"ni*ent, a. Etym: [L. leniens, -entis, p. pr. of lenire to soften,
fr. lenis soft, mild. Cf. Lithe.]

1. Relaxing; emollient; softening; assuasive; -- some "Lenient of
grief." Milton.
Of relax the fibers, are lenient, balsamic. Arbuthnot.
Time, that on all things lays his lenient hand. Pope.

2. Mild; clement; merciful; not rigorous or severe; as, a lenient
disposition; a lenient judge or sentence.

LENIENT
Le"ni*ent, n. (Med.)

Defn: A lenitive; an emollient.

LENIENTLY
Le"ni*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lenient manner.

LENIFY
Len"i*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. lenis soft, mild + -fy: cf. F.lénifier.]

Defn: To assuage; to soften; to Bacon. Dryden.

LENIMENT
Len"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. lenimentum: cf. OF. leniment. See Lenient.]

Defn: An assuasive. [Obs.]

LENITIVE
Len"i*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lénitif. See Lenient.]

Defn: Having the quality of softening or mitigating, as pain or
acrimony; assuasive; emollient.

LENITIVE
Len"i*tive, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lénitif.]

1. (Med.)
(a) A medicine or application that has the quality of easing pain or
protecting from the action of irritants.
(b) A mild purgative; a laxative.

2. That which softens or mitigates; that which tends to allay
passion, excitement, or pain; a palliative.
There is one sweet Lenitive at least for evils, which Nature holds
out; so I took it kindly at her hands, and fell asleep. Sterne.

LENITIVENESS
Len"i*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being lenitive.

LENITUDE
Len"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. lenitudo.]

Defn: The quality or habit of being lenient; lenity. [Obs.] Blount.

LENITY
Len"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. lenitas, fr. lenis soft, mild: cf. OF. lenité.
See Lenient.]

Defn: The state or quality of being lenient; mildness of temper or
disposition; gentleness of treatment; softness; tenderness; clemency;
-- opposed to severity and rigor.
His exceeding lenity disposes us to be somewhat too severe. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Gentleness; kindness; tenderness; softness; humanity; clemency;
mercy.

LENNI-LENAPE
Len`ni-Len*a"pe, n. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A general name for a group of Algonquin tribes which formerly
occupied the coast region of North America from Connecticut to
Virginia. They included the Mohicans, Delawares, Shawnees, and
several other tribes.

LENO
Le"no, n. Etym: [Cf. It. leno weak, flexible.]

Defn: A light open cotton fabric used for window curtains.

LENOCINANT
Le*noc"i*nant, a. Etym: [L. lenocinans, p. pr. of lenocinari to
pander, cajole; akin to leno pimp.]

Defn: Given to lewdness. [Obs.]

LENS
Lens, n.; pl. Lenses (-êz). Etym: [L. lens a lentil. So named from
the resemblance in shape of a double convex lens to the seed of a
lentil. Cf. Lentil.] (Opt.)

Defn: A piece of glass, or other transparent substance, ground with
two opposite regular surfaces, either both curved, or one curved and
the other plane, and commonly used, either singly or combined, in
optical instruments, for changing the direction of rays of light, and
thus magnifying objects, or otherwise modifying vision. In practice,
the curved surfaces are usually spherical, though rarely cylindrical,
or of some other figure. Lenses

Note: Of spherical lenses, there are six varieties, as shown in
section in the figures herewith given: viz., a plano-concave; b
double-concave; c plano-convex; d double-convex; converging concavo-
convex, or converging meniscus; f diverging concavo-convex, or
diverging meniscus. Crossed lens (Opt.), a double-convex lens with
one radius equal to six times the other.
 -- Crystalline lens. (Anat.) See Eye.
 -- Fresnel lens (Opt.), a compound lens formed by placing around a
central convex lens rings of glass so curved as to have the same
focus; used, especially in lighthouses, for concentrating light in a
particular direction; -- so called from the inventor.
 -- Multiplying lens or glass (Opt.), a lens one side of which is
plane and the other convex, but made up of a number of plane faces
inclined to one another, each of which presents a separate image of
the object viewed through it, so that the object is, as it were,
multiplied.
 -- Polyzonal lens. See Polyzonal.

LENT
Lent,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Lend.

LENT
Lent, n. Etym: [OE. lente, lenten, leynte, AS. lengten, lencten,
spring, lent, akin to D. lente, OHG. lenzin, langiz, G. lenz, and
perh. fr. AS. lang long, E. long, because at this season of the year
the days lengthen.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A fast of forty days, beginning with Ash Wednesday and
continuing till Easter, observed by some Christian churches as
commemorative of the fast of our Savior.

LENT
Lent, a. Etym: [L. lentus; akin to lenis soft, mild: cf. F. lent. See
Lenient.]

1. Slow; mild; gentle; as, lenter heats. [Obs.] B.Jonson.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: See Lento.

LENTAMENTE
Len`ta*men"te; adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slowly; in slow time.

LENTANDO
Len*tan"do, a. Etym: [It., p. pr. of lentare to make slow. See Lent,
a.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slackening; retarding. Same as Rallentando.

LENTEN
Lent"en, n.

Defn: Lent. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

LENTEN
Lent"en, a. Etym: [From OE. lenten lent. See Lent, n. ]

1. Of or pertaining to the fast called Lent; used in, or suitable to,
Lent; as, the Lenten season.
She quenched her fury at the flood. And with a Lenten salad cooled
her blood. Dryden.

2. Spare, meager; plain; somber; unostentatious; not abundant or
showy. "Lenten entertainment." " Lenten answer." Shak. " Lenten
suit." Beau. & Fl.
Lenten color, black or violet. F. G. Lee.

LENTENTIDE
Lent"en*tide`, n.

Defn: The season of Lenten or Lent.

LENTICEL
Len"ti*cel, n. Etym: [F. lenticelle, dim. fr. L. lens, lentis, a
lentil. Cf. Lentil.] (Bot.)
(a) One of the small, oval, rounded spots upon the stem or branch of
a plant, from which the underlying tissues may protrude or roots may
issue, either in the air, or more commonly when the stem or branch is
covered with water or earth.
(b) A small, lens-shaped gland on the under side of some leaves.

LENTICELLATE
Len`ti*cel"late, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing lenticels; dotted with lenticels.

LENTICELLE
Len`ti*celle", n. Etym: [F.] (Bot.)

Defn: Lenticel.

LENTICULA
Len*tic"u*la, n.; pl. E. Lenticulas, L. Lenticulæ. Etym: [L. See
Lenticel.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A kind of eruption upon the skin; lentigo; freckle.

2. (Opt.)

Defn: A lens of small size.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A lenticel.

LENTICULAR
Len*tic"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. lenticularis: cf. F. lenticulaire. See
Lenticel.]

Defn: Resembling a lentil in size or form; having the form of a
double-convex lens.

LENTICULARLY
Len*tic"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a lens; with a curve.

LENTIFORM
Len"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. lens, lentis, lentil + -form: cf. F.
lentifarme,]

Defn: Lenticular.

LENTIGINOSE
Len*tig"i*nose`, a. Etym: [See Lentiginous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing numerous dots resembling freckles.

LENTIGINOUS
Len*tig"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. lentiginosus. See Lentigo.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to lentigo; freckly; scurfy; furfuraceous.

LENTIGO
Len*ti"go, n. Etym: [L., fr. lens, lentis, lentil.] (Med.)

Defn: A freckly eruption on the skin; freckles.

LENTIL
Len"til, n. Etym: [F. lentille, fr. L. lenticula, dim. of lens,
lentis, lentil. Cf. Lens.] (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous plant of the genus Ervum (Ervum Lens), of small
size, common in the fields in Europe. Also, its seed, which is used
for food on the continent.

Note: The lentil of the Scriptures probably included several other
vetchlike plants. Lentil shell (Zoöl.), a small bivalve shell of the
genus Ervillia, family Tellinidæ.

LENTISCUS; LENTISK
Len*tis"cus, Len"tisk,, n. Etym: [L. lentiscus, lentiscum: cf. F.
lentisque.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree; the mastic. See Mastic.

LENTITUDE
Len"ti*tude, n. Etym: [L. lentitudo, fr. lentus slow: cf. OF.
lentitude. See Lent, a.]

Defn: Slowness; sluggishness. [Obs.]

LENT LILY
Lent lily (Bot.),

Defn: the daffodil; -- so named from its blossoming in spring.

LENTO
Len"to, a. & adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slow; in slow time; slowly; -- rarely written lente.

LENTOID
Len"toid, a. Etym: [Lens + -oid.]

Defn: Having the form of a lens; lens-shaped.

LENTOR
Len"tor, n. Etym: [L. fr. lentus pliant, tough, slow. See Lent, a.]

1. Tenacity; viscidity; viscidity, as of fluids.

2. Slowness; delay; sluggishness. Arbuthnot.

LENTOUS
Len"tous, a. Etym: [L. lentus. See Lentor.]

Defn: Viscid; viscous; tenacious.
Spawn of a lentous and transparent body. Sir T. Browne.

L'ENVOI; L'ENVOY
L'en`voi", or; L'en`voy" (, n. Etym: [F. le the + envei a sending.
See Envoy.]

1. One or more detached verses at the end of a literary composition,
serving to convey the moral, or to address the poem to a particular
person; -- orig. employed in old French poetry. Shak.

2. A conclusion; a result. Massinger.

LEO
Le"o, n. Etym: [L. See Lion.] (Astron.)

1. The Lion, the fifth sign of the zodiac, marked thus

2. A northern constellation east of Cancer, containing the bright
star Regulus at the end of the handle of the Sickle. Leo Minor, a
small constellation between Leo and the Great Bear.

LEOD
Le"od, n. Etym: [AS.leód people, nation, man, chief; akin to OS.
liud, OHG. liut, pl. liuti, G.leute, pl., fr. AS.leódan to grow, akin
to Goth. liudan, OS. liodan, OHG. liotan to grow; cf. Skr. ruh. ]

Defn: People; a nation; a man. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Bp. Gibson.

LEON
Le"on, n.

Defn: A lion. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEONCED
Le"onced, a. (Her.)

Defn: See Lionced.

LEONESE
Le`o*nese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Leon, in Spain.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Leon.

LEONID
Le"o*nid, n. Etym: [From Leo: cf. F. léonides, pl.] (Astron.)

Defn: One of the shooting stars which constitute the star shower that
recurs near the fourteenth of November at intervals of about thirty-
three years; so called because shooting stars appear on the heavens
to move in lines directed from the constellation Leo.

LEONINE
Le"o*nine, a. Etym: [L. leoninus, fr. leo, leonis, lion: cf. F.
léonin. See Lion.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the lion; as, a leonine
look; leonine repacity.
 -- Le"o*nine*ly, adv. Leonine verse, a kind of verse, in which the
end of the line rhymes with the middle; -- so named from Leo, or
Leoninus, a Benedictine and canon of Paris in the twelfth century,
who wrote largely in this measure, though he was not the inventor.
The following line is an example:
Gloria factorum temere conceditur horum.

LEONTODON
Le*on"to*don, n. Etym: [Gr. Lion's-tooth, Dandelion.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of liguliflorous composite plants, including the fall
dandelion (L. autumnale), and formerly the true dandelion; -- called
also lion's tooth.

LEOPARD
Leop"ard, n. Etym: [OE. leopart, leparde, lebarde, libbard, OF.
leopard, liepart, F. léopard, L. leopardus, fr. Gr. Lion, and Pard.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, savage, carnivorous mammal (Felis leopardus). It is of
a yellow or fawn color, with rings or roselike clusters of black
spots along the back and sides. It is found in Southern Asia and
Africa. By some the panther (Felis pardus) is regarded as a variety
of leopard. Hunting leopard. See Cheetah. Leopard cat (Zoöl.) any one
of several species or varieties of small, spotted cats found in
Africa, Southern Asia, and the East Indies; esp., Felis Bengalensis.
 -- Leopard marmot. See Gopher, 2.

LEOPARD'S BANE
Leop"ard's bane`. (Bot.)

Defn: A name of several harmless plants, as Arnica montana, Senecio
Doronicum, and Paris quadrifolia.

LEOPARDWOOD
Leop"ard*wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Letterwood.

LEP
Lep, obs. strong imp.

Defn: of Leap. Leaped. Chaucer.

LEPADITE
Lep"a*dite, n. Etym: [L. lepas, lepadis, limpet, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Lepadoid.

LEPADOID
Lep"a*doid, n. Etym: [Lepas + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A stalked barnacle of the genus Lepas, or family Lepadidæ; a
goose barnacle. Also used adjectively.

LEPAL
Lep"al, n. Etym: [Gr. lépale.] (Bot.)

Defn: A sterile transformed stamen.

LEPAS
Le"pas, n. Etym: [L., a limpet, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of various species of Lepas, a genus of pedunculated
barnacles found attached to floating timber, bottoms of ships, Gulf
weed, etc.; -- called also goose barnacle. See Barnacle.

LEPER
Lep"er, n. Etym: [OE. lepre leprosy, F. lèpre, L. leprae, lepra, fr.
Gr.

Defn: A person affected with leprosy.

LEPERED
Lep"ered, a.

Defn: Affected or tainted with leprosy.

LEPERIZE
Lep"er*ize, v. t.

Defn: To affect with leprosy.

LEPEROUS
Lep"er*ous, a.

Defn: Leprous; infectious; corrupting; poisonous. "The leperous
distillment." Shak.

LEPID
Lep"id, a. Etym: [L. lepidus.]

Defn: Pleasant; jocose. [R.]
The joyous and lepid consul. Sydney Smith.

LEPIDINE
Lep"i*dine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An organic base, C9H6.N.CH3, metameric with quinaldine, and
obtained by the distillation of cinchonine.

LEPIDODENDRID
Lep`i*do*den"drid, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: One of an extinct family of trees allied to the modern club
mosses, and including Lepidodendron and its allies.

LEPIDODENDROID
Lep`i*do*den"droid, a. (Paleon.)

Defn: Allied to, or resembling, Lepidodendron.
 -- n.

Defn: A lepidodendrid.

LEPIDODENDRON
Lep`i*do*den"dron, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of fossil trees of the Devonian and Carboniferous ages,
having the exterior marked with scars, mostly in quincunx order,
produced by the separation of the leafstalks.

LEPIDOGANOID
Lep`i*do*ga"noid, n. Etym: [Gr. ganoid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of a division (Lepidoganoidei) of ganoid fishes,
including those that have scales forming a coat of mail. Also used
adjectively.

LEPIDOLITE
Le*pid"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. lépidolithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A species of mica, of a lilac or rose-violet color, containing
lithia. It usually occurs in masses consisting of small scales. See
Mica.

LEPIDOMELANE
Lep`i*dom"e*lane, n. Etym: [Fr. (Min.)

Defn: An iron-potash mica, of a raven-black color, usually found in
granitic rocks in small six-sided tables, or as an aggregation of
minute opaque scales. See Mica.

LEPIDOPTER
Lep`i*dop"ter, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lépidoptère.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Lepidoptera.

LEPIDOPTERA
Lep`i*dop"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of insects, which includes the butterflies and moths.
They have broad wings, covered with minute overlapping scales,
usually brightly colored.

Note: They have a tubular proboscis, or haustellum, formed by the two
slender maxillæ. The labial palpi are usually large, and the
proboscis, when not in use, can be coiled up spirally between them.
The mandibles are rudimentary. The larvæ, called caterpillars, are
often brightly colored, and they commonly feed on leaves. The adults
feed chiefly on the honey of flowers.

LEPIDOPTERAL; LEPIDOPTEROUS
Lep`i*dop"ter*al, Lep`i*dop"ter*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Lepidoptera.

LEPIDOPTERIST
Lep`i*dop"ter*ist, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One who studies the Lepidoptera.

LEPIDOSAURIA
Lep`i*do*sau"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of reptiles, including the serpents and lizards; the
Plagiotremata.

LEPIDOSIREN
Lep`i*do*si"ren, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An eel-shaped ganoid fish of the order Dipnoi, having both
gills and lungs. It inhabits the rivers of South America. The name is
also applied to a related African species (Protopterus annectens).
The lepidosirens grow to a length of from four to six feet. Called
also doko.

LEPIDOTE; LEPIDOTED
Lep"i*dote, Lep"i*do`ted, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a coat of scurfy scales, as the leaves of the oleaster.

LEPISMA
Le*pis"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of wingless thysanurous insects having an elongated
flattened body, covered with shining scales and terminated by seven
unequal bristles. A common species (Lepisma saccharina) is found in
houses, and often injures books and furniture. Called also shiner,
silver witch, silver moth, and furniture bug.

LEPISMOID
Le*pis"moid, a. Etym: [Lepisma + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Lepisma.

LEPORINE
Lep"o*rine, a. Etym: [L. leporinus, fr. lepus, leporis, hare. See
Leveret.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a hare; like or characteristic of, a hare.

LEPRA
Le"pra, n. Etym: [L. See Leper.] (Med.)

Defn: Leprosy.

Note: The term lepra was formerly given to various skin diseases, the
leprosy of modern authors being Lepra Arabum. See Leprosy.

LEPRE
Lep"re, n.

Defn: Leprosy.[Obs.] Wyclif.

LEPROSE
Lep"rose`, a. Etym: [See Leprous.] (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Covered with thin, scurfy scales.

LEPROSITY
Le*pros"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being leprous or scaly; also, a scale.
Bacon.

LEPROSY
Lep"ro*sy, n. Etym: [See Leprous.] (Med.)

Defn: A cutaneous disease which first appears as blebs or as reddish,
shining, slightly prominent spots, with spreading edges. These are
often followed by an eruption of dark or yellowish prominent nodules,
frequently producing great deformity. In one variety of the disease,
anæsthesia of the skin is a prominent symptom. In addition there may
be wasting of the muscles, falling out of the hair and nails, and
distortion of the hands and feet with destruction of the bones and
joints. It is incurable, and is probably contagious.Mycobacterium
leprae, curable in most cases by therapy with a combination of
antibiotics, but cases resistant to therapy are increasing.

Note: The disease now called leprosy, also designated as Lepra or
Lepra Arabum, and Elephantiasis Græcorum, is not the same as the
leprosy of the ancients. The latter was, indeed, a generic name for
many varieties of skin disease (including our modern leprosy,
psoriasis, etc.), some of which, among the Hebrews, rendered a person
ceremonially unclean. A variety of leprosy of the Hebrews (probably
identical with modern leprosy) was characterized by the presence of
smooth, shining, depressed white patches or scales, the hair on which
participated in the whiteness while the skin and adjacent flesh
became insensible. It was incurable disease.

LEPROUS
Lep"rous, a. Etym: [OF. leprous, lepros, F. lépreux, fr. L. leprosus,
fr. lepra, leprae, leprosy. See Leper.]

1. Infected with leprosy; pertaining to or resembling leprosy. "His
hand was leprous as snow." Ex. iv. 6.

2. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Leprose.
 -- Lep"rous*ly, adv.
 -- Lep"rous*ness, n.

LEPRY
Lep"ry, n.

Defn: Leprosy. [Obs.] Holland.

LEPTIFORM
Lep"ti*form, a. Etym: [Leptus + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a form somewhat like leptus; -- said of active insect
larvæ having three pairs of legs. See Larva.

LEPTOCARDIA
Lep`to*car"di*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lowest class of Vertebrata, including only the Amphioxus.
The heart is represented only by a simple pulsating vessel. The blood
is colorless; the brain, renal organs, and limbs are wanting, and the
backbone is represented only by a simple, unsegmented notochord. See
Amphioxus. [Written also Leptocardii.]

LEPTOCARDIAN
Lep`to*car"di*an a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Leptocardia.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Leptocardia.

LEPTODACTYL
Lep`to*dac"tyl, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird or other animal having slender toes. [Written also
lepodactyle.]

LEPTODACTYLOUS
Lep`to*dac"tyl*ous

Defn: , Having slender toes.

LEPTOLOGY
Lep*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A minute and tedious discourse on trifling things.

LEPTOMENINGITIS
Lep`to*men`in*gi"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. meningitis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the pia mater or of the arachnoid membrane.

LEPTORHINE
Lep"to*rhine, a. Etym: [Gr. , , the nose.] (Anat.)

Defn: Having the nose narrow; -- said esp. of the skull. Opposed to
platyrhine.

LEPTOSTRACA
Lep*tos"tra*ca, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Crustacea, including Nebalia and allied forms.

LEPTOTHRIX
Lep"to*thrix, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A genus of bacteria, characterized by having their filaments
very long, slender, and indistinctly articulated.

LEPTOTHRIX
Lep"to*thrix, a. Etym: [See Leptothrix, n. ] (Biol.)

Defn: Having the form of a little chain; -- applied to bacteria when,
as in multiplication by fission, they form chain of filiform
individuals.

LEPTUS
Lep"tus, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The six-legged young, or larva, of certain mites; -- sometimes
used as a generic name. See Harvest mite, under Harvest.

LEPTYNITE
Lep"ty*nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Granulite.

LERE
Lere, n. Etym: [See Lore knowledge.]

Defn: Learning; lesson; lore. [Obs.] Spenser.

LERE
Lere, v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. leeren, leren, AS. l. See Lore, Learn.]

Defn: To learn; to teach. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LERE
Lere, a.

Defn: Empty. [Obs.] See Lere, a.

LERE
Lere, n. Etym: [AS. lira flesh; cf. Icel lær thigh.]

Defn: Flesh; skin. [Obs.] "His white leer." Chaucer.

LERED
Ler"ed, a. Etym: [From lere, v. t.]

Defn: Learned. [Obs.] " Lewed man or lered." Chaucer.

LERNAEA
Ler*næ"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. Lernaeus Lernæan, fr. Lerna, Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A Linnæan genus of parasitic Entomostraca, -- the same as the
family Lernæidæ.

Note: The genus is restricted by modern zoölogists to a limited
number of species similar to Lernæa branchialis found on the gills of
the cod.

LERNAEACEA
Ler`næ*a"ce*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Lernæa.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of copepod Crustacea, including a large number of
remarkable forms, mostly parasitic on fishes. The young, however, are
active and swim freely. See Illustration in Appendix.

LERNEAN
Ler*ne"an, n. Etym: [See Lernæa.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a family (Lernæidæ) of parasitic Crustacea found
attached to fishes and other marine animals. Some species penetrate
the skin and flesh with the elongated head, and feed on the viscera.
See Illust. in Appendix.

LEROT
Lé`rot", n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European rodent (Eliomys nitela), allied to the
dormouse.

LES
Les, n.

Defn: A leash. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LESBIAN
Les"bi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the island anciently called Lesbos, now
Mitylene, in the Grecian Archipelago.

LESBIANISM
Les"bi*an*ism, n. (Med.)

Defn: Unnatural sexual relations between women.

LESBIAN LOVE
Lesbian love.

Defn: See Lesbianism.

LESE
Lese, v. t.

Defn: To lose. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LESE-MAJESTY
Lese`-maj"es*ty, n.

Defn: See Leze majesty.

LESION
Le"sion, n. Etym: [F. lesion, L. laesio, fr. laedere, laesum, to
hurt, injure.]

Defn: A hurt; an injury. Specifically:
(a) (Civil Law) Loss sustained from failure to fulfill a bargain or
contract. Burrill.
(b) (Med.) Any morbid change in the exercise of functions or the
texture of organs. Dunglison.

-LESS
-less. Etym: [AS. leás loose, false; akin to OS. l loose, false, D.
los loose, loos false, sly, G. los loose, Icel. lauss loose, vacant,
Goth. laus empty, vain, and also to E. loose, lose. sq. root127. See
Lose, and cf. Loose, Leasing.]

Defn: A privative adjective suffix, denoting without, destitute of,
not having; as witless, childless, fatherless.

LESS
Less (lês), conj.

Defn: Unless. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

LESS
Less, a. Etym: [OE. lesse, AS. læssa; akin to OFries. lessa; a
compar. from a lost positive form. Cf. Lesser, Lest, Least. Less has
the sense of the comparative degree of little.]

Defn: Smaller; not so large or great; not so much; shorter; inferior;
as, a less quantity or number; a horse of less size or value; in less
time than before.

Note: The substantive which less qualifies is often omitted; as, the
purse contained less (money) than ten dollars. See Less, n.
Thus in less [time] than a hundred years from the coming of
Augustine, all England became Christian. E. A. Freeman.

LESS
Less, adv. Etym: [AS. l. See Less, adj., and cf. Lest.]

Defn: Not so much; in a smaller or lower degree; as, less bright or
loud; less beautiful.

LESS
Less, n.

1. A smaller portion or quantity.
The children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, some less.
Ex. xvi. 17.

2. The inferior, younger, or smaller.
The less is blessed of the better. Heb. vii. 7.

LESS
Less, v. t.

Defn: To make less; to lessen. [Obs.] Gower.

LESSEE
Les*see", n. Etym: [F. laissé, p. p. of laisser. See Lease, v. t.]
(Law)

Defn: The person to whom a lease is given, or who takes an estate by
lease. Blackstone.

LESSEN
Less"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lessened; p. pr. & vb. n. Lessening.]
Etym: [From Less, a. ]

Defn: To make less; to reduce; to make smaller, or fewer; to
diminish; to lower; to degrade; as, to lessen a kingdom, or a
population; to lessen speed, rank, fortune.
Charity . . . shall lessen his punishment. Calamy.
St. Paul chose to magnify his office when ill men conspired to lessen
it. Atterbury.

Syn.
 -- To diminish; reduce; abate; decrease; lower; impair; weaken;
degrade.

LESSEN
Less"en, v. i.

Defn: To become less; to shrink; to contract; to decrease; to be
diminished; as, the apparent magnitude of objects lessens as we
recede from them; his care, or his wealth, lessened.
The objection lessens much, and comes to no more than this: there was
one witness of no good reputation. Atterbury.

LESSENER
Less"en*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, lessens.
His wife . . . is the lessener of his pain, and the augmenter of his
pleasure. J. Rogers (1839).

LESSER
Less"er, a. Etym: [This word is formed by adding anew the compar.
suffix -er (in which r is from an original s) to less. See Less, a.]

Defn: Less; smaller; inferior.
God made . . . the lesser light to rule the night. Gen. i. 15.

Note: Lesser is used for less, now the compar. of little, in certain
special instances in which its employment has become established by
custom; as, Lesser Asia (i. e., Asia Minor), the lesser light, and
some others; also in poetry, for the sake of the meter, and in prose
where its use renders the passage more euphonious.
The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace. Shak.
The larger here, and there the lesser lambs. Pope.
By the same reason may a man, in the state of nature, punish the
lesser breaches of the law. Locke.

LESSER
Less"er, adv.

Defn: Less. [Obs.] Shak.

LESSES
Les"ses, n. pl. Etym: [F. laissées, from laisser to leave. See Lease,
v. t.]

Defn: The leavings or dung of beasts.

LESSON
Les"son, n. Etym: [OE. lessoun, F. le lesson, reading, fr. L. lectio
a reading, fr. legere to read, collect. See Legend, and cf. Lection.]

1. Anything read or recited to a teacher by a pupil or learner;
something, as a portion of a book, assigned to a pupil to be studied
or learned at one time.

2. That which is learned or taught by an express effort; instruction
derived from precept, experience, observation, or deduction; a
precept; a doctrine; as, to take or give a lesson in drawing." A
smooth and pleasing lesson." Milton.
Emprinteth well this lesson in your mind. Chaucer.

3. A portion of Scripture read in divine service for instruction; as,
here endeth the first lesson.

4. A severe lecture; reproof; rebuke; warning.
She would give her a lesson for walking so late. Sir. P. Sidney.

5. (Mus.) An exercise; a composition serving an educational purpose;
a study.

LESSON
Les"son, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lessoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Lessoning.]

Defn: To teach; to instruct. Shak.
To rest the weary, and to soothe the sad, Doth lesson happier men,
and shame at least the bad. Byron.

LESSOR
Les"sor, n. Etym: [See Lessee, Lease, v. t. ] (Law)

Defn: One who leases; the person who lets to farm, or gives a lease.
Blackstone.

LEST
Lest, v. i.

Defn: To listen. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

LEST
Lest, n. Etym: [See List to choose.]

Defn: Lust; desire; pleasure. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEST
Lest, a.

Defn: Last; least. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEST
Lest, conj. Etym: [OE.leste, fr. AS. l the less that, where that,
who, which. See The, Less, a.]

1. For
Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty. Prov. xx. 18.
Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth he standeth take heed
lest he fall. I Cor. x. 12.

2. That (without the negative particle); -- after certain expressions
denoting fear or apprehension.
I feared Lest I might anger thee. Shak.

LESTER
Les"ter, n. [Pg., prob. fr. Fr. l'est the east.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A dry sirocco in the Madeira Islands.

-LET
-let.Etym: [From two French dim. endings -el (L. -ellus) and -et, as
in bracelet.]

Defn: A noun suffix having a diminutive force; as in streamlet,
armlet.

LET
Let, v. t. Etym: [OE.letten, AS. lettan to delay, to hinder, fr. læt
slow; akin to D. letten to hinder, G. verletzen to hurt, Icel. letja
to hold back, Goth. latjan. See Late.]

Defn: To retard; to hinder; to impede; to oppose. [Archaic]
He was so strong that no man might him let. Chaucer.
He who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way. 2.
Thess. ii. 7.
Mine ancient wound is hardly whole, And lets me from the saddle.
Tennyson.

LET
Let, n.

1. A retarding; hindrance; obstacle; impediment; delay; -- common in
the phrase without let or hindrance, but elsewhere archaic. Keats.
Consider whether your doings be to the let of your salvation or not.
Latimer.

2. (Lawn Tennis)

Defn: A stroke in which a ball touches the top of the net in passing
over.

LET
Let, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Let (Letted, [Obs].); p. pr. & vb. n.
Letting.] Etym: [OE. leten, læten (past tense lat, let, p. p. laten,
leten, lete), AS. lætan (past tense let, p. p. læten); akin to
OFries. leta, OS. latan, D. laten, G. lessen, OHG. lazzan, Icel.
lata, Sw. låta, Dan. lade, Goth. letan, and L. lassus weary. The
original meaning seems to have been, to let loose, let go, let drop.
Cf. Alas, Late, Lassitude, Let to hinder.]

1. To leave; to relinquish; to abandon. [Obs. or Archaic, except when
followed by alone or be.]
He . . . prayed him his voyage for to let Chaucer.
Yet neither spins nor cards, ne cares nor frets, But to her mother
Nature all her care she lets. Spenser.
Let me alone in choosing of my wife. Chaucer.

2. To consider; to think; to esteem. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. To cause; to make; -- used with the infinitive in the active form
but in the passive sense; as, let make, i. e., cause to be made; let
bring, i. e., cause to be brought. [Obs.]
This irous, cursed wretch Let this knight's son anon before him
fetch. Chaucer.
He . . . thus let do slay hem all three. Chaucer.
Anon he let two coffers make. Gower.

4. To permit; to allow; to suffer; -- either affirmatively, by
positive act, or negatively, by neglecting to restrain or prevent.

Note: In this sense, when followed by an infinitive, the latter is
commonly without the sign to; as to let us walk, i. e., to permit or
suffer us to walk. Sometimes there is entire omission of the verb;
as, to let [to be or to go] loose.
Pharaoh said, I will let you go Ex. viii. 28.
If your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is. Shak.

5. To allow to be used or occupied for a compensation; to lease; to
rent; to hire out; -- often with out; as, to let a farm; to let a
house; to let out horses.

6. To give, grant, or assign, as a work, privilege, or contract; --
often with out; as, to let the building of a bridge; to let out the
lathing and the plastering.

Note: The active form of the infinitive of let, as of many other
English verbs, is often used in a passive sense; as, a house to let
(i. e., for letting, or to be let). This form of expression conforms
to the use of the Anglo-Saxon gerund with to (dative infinitive)
which was commonly so employed. See Gerund, 2. " Your elegant house
in Harley Street is to let." Thackeray. In the imperative mood,
before the first person plural, let has a hortative force. " Rise up,
let us go." Mark xiv. 42. " Let us seek out some desolate shade."
Shak. To let alone, to leave; to withdraw from; to refrain from
interfering with.
 -- To let blood, to cause blood to flow; to bleed.
 -- To let down. (a) To lower. (b) To soften in tempering; as to let
down tools, cutlery, and the like.
 -- To let drive or fly, to discharge with violence, as a blow, an
arrow, or stone. See under Drive, and Fly.
 -- To let in or into. (a) To permit or suffer to enter; to admit.
(b) To insert, or imbed, as a piece of wood, in a recess formed in a
surface for the purpose. To let loose, to remove restraint from; to
permit to wander at large.
 -- To let off (a) To discharge; to let fly, as an arrow; to fire the
charge of, as a gun. (b) To release, as from an engagement or
obligation. [Colloq.] To let out. (a) To allow to go forth; as, to
let out a prisoner. (b) To extend or loosen, as the folds of a
garment; to enlarge; to suffer to run out, as a cord. (c) To lease;
to give out for performance by contract, as a job. (d) To divulge.
 -- To let slide, to let go; to cease to care for. [Colloq.] " Let
the world slide." Shak.

LET
Let, v. i.

1. To forbear. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. To be let or leased; as, the farm lets for $500 a year. See note
under Left, v. i. To let on, to tell; to tattle; to divulge
something. [Low] -- To let up, to become less severe; to diminish; to
cease; as, when the storm lets up. [Colloq.]

LET-ALONE
Let"-a*lone", a.

Defn: Letting alone. The let-alone principle, doctrine, or policy.
(Polit. Econ.) See Laissez faire.

LETCH
Letch, v. & n.

Defn: See Leach.

LETCH
Letch, n. Etym: [See Lech, Lecher.]

Defn: Strong desire; passion. (Archaic.)
Some people have a letch for unmasking impostors, or for avenging the
wrongs of others. De Quincey.

LETCHY
Letch"y, a.

Defn: See Leachy.

LETE
Lete, v. t.

Defn: To let; to leave. [Obs.]

LETEN
Let"en, obs. p. p.

Defn: of Lete. Chaucer.

LETHAL
Leth"al, n. Etym: [Lauric + ether + alcohol.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the higher alcohols of the paraffine series obtained
from spermaceti as a white crystalline solid. It is so called because
it occurs in the ethereal salt of lauric acid.

LETHAL
Le"thal, a. Etym: [L. lethalis, letalis, fr. lethum, letum, death:
cf. F. léthal.]

Defn: Deadly; mortal; fatal. "The lethal blow." W. Richardson.
 -- Le"thal*ly, adv.

LETHALITY
Le*thal"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. léthalité.]

Defn: The quality of being lethal; mortality.

LETHARGIC; LETHARGICAL
Le*thar"gic, Le*thar"gic*al, a. Etym: [L. lethargicus, Gr.
léthargique. See Lethargy.]

Defn: Pertaining to, affected with, or resembling, lethargy; morbidly
drowsy; dull; heavy.
 -- Le*thar"gic*al*ly, v.
 -- Le*thar"gic*al*ness, n.
 -- Le*thar"gic*ness, n.

LETHARGIZE
Leth"ar*gize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lethargized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lethargizing.]

Defn: To make lethargic.
All bitters are poison, and act by stilling, and depressing, and
lethargizing the irritability. Coleridge.

LETHARGY
Leth"ar*gy, n.; pl. -gies. Etym: [F. léthargie, L. letgargia, Gr.
Lethe.]

1. Morbid drowsiness; continued or profound sleep, from which a
person can scarcely be awaked.

2. A state of inaction or indifference.
Europe lay then under a deep lethargy. Atterbury.

LETHARGY
Leth"ar*gy, v. t.

Defn: To lethargize. [Obs.] Shak.

LETHE
Le"the, n. Etym: [See Lethal.]

Defn: Death.[Obs.] Shak.

LETHE
Le"the (le"the), n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A river of Hades whose waters when drunk caused forgetfulness
of the past.

2. Oblivion; a draught of oblivion; forgetfulness.

LETHEAN
Le*the"an, a. Etym: [L. Letha, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lethe; resembling in effect the water of
Lethe. Milton. Barrow.

LETHEED
Le"theed, a.

Defn: Caused by Lethe. " Letheed dullness." [Obs.] Shak.

LETHEON
Le"the*on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Sulphuric ether used as an anæsthetic agent. [R.]

LETHEONIZE
Le"the*on*ize, v. t.

Defn: To subject to the influence of letheon. [R. or Obs.]

LETHIFEROUS
Le*thif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. lethifer, letifer, fr. lethum, letum,
death + ferre to bear, to bring: cf. F. léthifère.]

Defn: Deadly; bringing death or destruction.

LETHY
Le"thy, a.

Defn: Lethean. [Obs.] Marston.

LET-OFF
Let"-off`, n. (Mach.)

Defn: A device for letting off, releasing, or giving forth, as the
warp from the cylinder of a loom.

LETTE
Let"te, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Letted.]

Defn: To let; to hinder. See Let, to hinder. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LETTER
Let"ter, n. Etym: [From Let to permit.]

Defn: One who lets or permits; one who lets anything for hire.

LETTER
Let"ter, n. Etym: [From Let to hinder.]

Defn: One who retards or hinders. [Archaic.]

LETTER
Let"ter, n. Etym: [OE. lettre, F. lettre, OF. letre, fr. L.littera,
litera, a letter; pl., an epistle, a writing, literature, fr. linere,
litum, to besmear, to spread or rub over; because one of the earliest
modes of writing was by graving the characters upon tablets smeared
over or covered with wax. Pliny, xiii. 11. See Leniment, and cf.
Literal.]

1. A mark or character used as the representative of a sound, or of
an articulation of the human organs of speech; a first element of
written language.
And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek,
and Latin, and Hebrew. Luke xxiii. 38.

2. A written or printed communication; a message expressed in
intelligible characters on something adapted to conveyance, as paper,
parchment, etc.; an epistle.
The style of letters ought to be free, easy, and natural. Walsh.

3. A writing; an inscription. [Obs.]
None could expound what this letter meant. Chaucer.

4. Verbal expression; literal statement or meaning; exact
signification or requirement.
We must observe the letter of the law, without doing violence to the
reason of the law and the intention of the lawgiver. Jer. Taylor.
I broke the letter of it to keep the sense. Tennyson.

5. (Print.)

Defn: A single type; type, collectively; a style of type.
Under these buildings . . . was the king's printing house, and that
famous letter so much esteemed. Evelyn.

6. pl.

Defn: Learning; erudition; as, a man of letters.

7. pl.

Defn: A letter; an epistle. [Obs.] Chaucer. Dead letter, Drop letter,
etc. See under Dead, Drop, etc.
 -- Letter book, a book in which copies of letters are kept.
 -- Letter box, a box for the reception of letters to be mailed or
delivered.
 -- Letter carrier, a person who carries letters; a postman; specif.,
an officer of the post office who carries letters to the persons to
whom they are addressed, and collects letters to be mailed.
 -- Letter cutter, one who engraves letters or letter punches.
 -- Letter lock, a lock that can not be opened when fastened, unless
certain movable lettered rings or disks forming a part of in are in
such a position (indicated by a particular combination of the
letters) as to permit the bolt to be withdrawn.
A strange lock that opens with AMEN. Beau. & Fl.
-- Letter paper, paper for writing letters on; especially, a size of
paper intermediate between note paper and foolscap. See Paper.
 -- Letter punch, a steel punch with a letter engraved on the end,
used in making the matrices for type.
 -- Letters of administration (Law), the instrument by which an
administrator or administratrix is authorized to administer the goods
and estate of a deceased person.
 -- Letter of attorney, Letter of credit, etc. See under Attorney,
Credit, etc.
 -- Letter of license, a paper by which creditors extend a debtor's
time for paying his debts.
 -- Letters close or clause (Eng. Law.), letters or writs directed to
particular persons for particular purposes, and hence closed or
sealed on the outside; -- distinguished from letters patent. Burrill.
 -- Letters of orders (Eccl.), a document duly signed and sealed, by
which a bishop makes it known that he has regularly ordained a
certain person as priest, deacon, etc.
 -- Letters patent, overt, or open (Eng. Law), a writing executed and
sealed, by which power and authority are granted to a person to do
some act, or enjoy some right; as, letters patent under the seal of
England.
 -- Letter-sheet envelope, a stamped sheet of letter paper issued by
the government, prepared to be folded and sealed for transmission by
mail without an envelope.
 -- Letters testamentary (Law), an instrument granted by the proper
officer to an executor after probate of a will, authorizing him to
act as executor.
 -- Letter writer. (a) One who writes letters. (b) A machine for
copying letters. (c) A book giving directions and forms for the
writing of letters.

LETTER
Let"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lettered; p. pr. & vb. n. Lettering.]

Defn: To impress with letters; to mark with letters or words; as, a
book gilt and lettered.

LETTERED
Let"tered, a.

1. Literate; educated; versed in literature. " Are you not lettered"
Shak.
The unlettered barbarians willingly accepted the aid of the lettered
clergy, still chiefly of Roman birth, to reduce to writing the
institutes of their forefathers. Milman.

2. Of or pertaining to learning or literature; learned. " A lettered
education." Collier.

3. Inscribed or stamped with letters. Addison.

LETTERER
Let"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who makes, inscribes, or engraves, alphabetical letters.

LETTERGRAM
Let"ter*gram, n.

Defn: See Letter, above.

LETTERING
Let"ter*ing, n.

1. The act or business of making, or marking with, letters, as by
cutting or painting.

2. The letters made; as, the lettering of a sign.

LETTERLESS
Let"ter*less, a.

1. Not having a letter.

2. Illiterate. [Obs.] E. Waterhouse.

LETTERN
Let"tern, n.

Defn: See Lecturn.

LETTERPRESS
Let"ter*press", n.

Defn: Print; letters and words impressed on paper or other material
by types; -- often used of the reading matter in distinction from the
illustrations.
Letterpress printing, printing directly from type, in distinction
from printing from plates.

LETTERURE
Let"ter*ure, n.

Defn: Letters; literature. [Obs.] "To teach him letterure and
courtesy." Chaucer.

LETTERWOOD
Let"ter*wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The beautiful and highly elastic wood of a tree of the genus
Brosimum (B. Aubletii), found in Guiana; -- so called from black
spots in it which bear some resemblance to hieroglyphics; also called
snakewood, and leopardwood. It is much used for bows and for walking
sticks.

LETTIC
Let"tic, a.
(a) Of or pertaining to the Letts; Lettish.
(b) Of or pertaining to a branch of the Slavic family, subdivided
into Lettish, Lithuanian, and Old Prussian.
 -- n.
(a) The language of the Letts; Lettish.
(b) The language of the Lettic race, including Lettish, Lithuanian,
and Old Prussian.

LETTISH
Let"tish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Letts.
 -- n.

Defn: The language spoken by the Letts. See Lettic.

LETTRURE
Let"trure, n.

Defn: See Letterure. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LETTS
Letts, n. pl.; sing. Lett (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: An Indo-European people, allied to the Lithuanians and Old
Prussians, and inhabiting a part of the Baltic provinces of Russia.

LETTUCE
Let"tuce, n. Etym: [OE. letuce, prob. through Old French from some
Late Latin derivative of L. lactuca lettuce, which, according to
Varro, is fr. lac, lactis, milk, on account of the milky white juice
which flows from it when it is cut: cf. F. laitue. Cf. Lacteal,
Lactucic.] (Bot.)

Defn: A composite plant of the genus Lactuca (L. sativa), the leaves
of which are used as salad. Plants of this genus yield a milky juice,
from which lactucarium is obtained. The commonest wild lettuce of the
United States is L. Canadensis. Hare's lettuce, Lamb's lettuce. See
under Hare, and Lamb.
 -- Lettuce opium. See Lactucarium.
 -- Sea lettuce, certain papery green seaweeds of the genus Ulva.

LETUARY
Let"u*a*ry, n.

Defn: Electuary. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LET-UP
Let"-*up`, n. Etym: [See Let to forbear.]

Defn: Abatement; also, cessation; as, it blew a gale for three days
without any let-up. [Colloq.]

LEUC-
Leuc-

Defn: . Same as Leuco-.

LEUCADENDRON
Leu`ca*den"dron, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of evergreen shrubs from the Cape of Good Hope, having
handsome foliage. Leucadendron argenteum is the silverboom of the
colonists.

LEUCANILINE
Leu*can"i*line, n. Etym: [Leuc- + aniline.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, crystalline, organic base, obtained from
rosaniline by reduction, and also from other sources. It forms
colorless salts.

LEUCHAEMIA
Leu*chæ"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: See Leucocythæmia.
 -- Leu*chæm"ic, a. [Written also leukæmia, leukæmic.]

LEUCIC; LEUCINIC
Leu"cic, Leu*cin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from leucin,
and called also oxycaproic acid.

LEUCIN
Leu"cin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance formed in the
decomposition of albuminous matter by pancreatic digestion, by the
action of boiling dilute sulphuric acid, and by putrefaction. It is
also found as a constituent of various tissues and organs, as the
spleen, pancreas, etc., and likewise in the vegetable kingdom.
Chemically it is to be considered as amido-caproic acid.
(CH3)2CH.CH2.CH(NH2)-COOH. L-leucine, the natural form, is present in
most proteins.

LEUCITE
Leu"cite, n. Etym: [Gr.leucite.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral having a glassy fracture, occurring in translucent
trapezohedral crystals. It is a silicate of alumina and potash. It is
found in the volcanic rocks of Italy, especially at Vesuvius.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A leucoplast.

LEUCITIC
Leu*cit"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Containing leucite; as, leucitic rocks.

LEUCITOID
Leu"ci*toid, n. Etym: [Leucite + -oid.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: The trapezohedron or tetragonal trisoctahedron; -- so called as
being the form of the mineral leucite.

LEUCO-; LEUC-
Leu"co-, Leuc-.Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form signifying white, colorless; specif. (Chem.),
denoting an extensive series of colorless organic compounds, obtained
by reduction from certain other colored compounds; as, leucaniline,
leucaurin, etc.

LEUCOCYTE
Leu"co*cyte, n. Etym: [Leuco- + Cr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A colorless corpuscle, as one of the white blood corpuscles, or
those found in lymph, marrow of hone, connective tissue, etc.

Note: They all consist of more or less spherical masses of
protoplasm, without any surrounding membrane or wall, and are capable
of motion.

LEUCOCYTHAEMIA; LEUCOCYTHEMIA
Leu`co*cy*thæ"mi*a, Leu`co*cy*the"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A disease in which the white corpuscles of the blood are
largely increased in number, and there is enlargement of the spleen,
or the lymphatic glands; leuchæmia.

LEUCOCYTOGENESIS
Leu`co*cy`to*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Leucocyte + genesis.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The formation of leucocytes.

LEUCOETHIOPIC
Leu`co*e`thi*op"ic, a. Etym: [Leuco- + Ethiopic.]

Defn: White and black; -- said of a white animal of a black species,
or the albino of the negro race.

LEUCOETHIOPS
Leu`co*e"thi*ops, n. Etym: [Leuco- + Aethiops.]

Defn: An albino. [Also written leucoethiops.]

LEUCOLINE
Leu"co*line, n. Etym: [Leuc- + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous organic base from coal tar, and identical with
quinoline. Cf. Quinoline.

LEUCOMA
Leu*co"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A white opacity in the cornea of the eye; -- called also
albugo.

LEUCOMAINE
Leu*co"ma*ine, n. Etym: [Leuco- + -maine, as in ptomaine.] (Physiol.
Chem.)

Defn: An animal base or alkaloid, appearing in the tissue during
life; hence, a vital alkaloid, as distinguished from a ptomaine or
cadaveric poison.

LEUCONIC
Leu*con"ic, a. Etym: [Leuc- + croconic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex organic acid, obtained
as a yellowish white gum by the oxidation of croconic acid.

LEUCOPATHY
Leu*cop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Leuco- + Gr.

Defn: The state of an albino, or of a white child of black parents.

LEUCOPHANE
Leu"co*phane, n. Etym: [Gr. leukophan.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a greenish yellow color; it is a silicate of
glucina, lime, and soda with fluorine. Called also leucophanite.

LEUCOPHLEGMACY
Leu`co*phleg"ma*cy, n. Etym: [Gr. leucophlegmasie.] (Med.)

Defn: A dropsical habit of body, or the commencement of anasarca;
paleness, with viscid juices and cold sweats.

LEUCOPHLEGMATIC
Leu`co*phleg*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. leucophlegmatique, Gr.

Defn: Having a dropsical habit of body, with a white bloated skin.

LEUCOPHYLL
Leu"co*phyll, n. Etym: [Leuco- + Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless substance isomeric with chlorophyll, contained in
parts of plants capable of becoming green. Watts.

LEUCOPHYLLOUS
Leu*coph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having white or silvery foliage.

LEUCOPLAST; LEUCOPLASTID
Leu"co*plast, Leu`co*plas"tid, n. Etym: [Leuco- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: One of certain very minute whitish or colorless granules
occurring in the protoplasm of plants and supposed to be the nuclei
around which starch granules will form.

LEUCOPYRITE
Leu*cop"y*rite, n. Etym: [Leuco- + pyrites.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a color between white and steel-gray, with a
metallic luster, and consisting chiefly of arsenic and iron.

LEUCORRHOEA
Leu`cor*rhoe"a, n. Etym: [Leuco- + Gr. "rei^n to flow.] (Med.)

Defn: A discharge of a white, yellowish, or greenish, viscid mucus,
resulting from inflammation or irritation of the membrane lining the
genital organs of the female; the whites. Dunglison.

LEUCORYX
Leu"co*ryx, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large antelope of North Africa (Oryx leucoryx), allied to the
gemsbok.

LEUCOSCOPE
Leu"co*scope, n. Etym: [Leuco- + -scope.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument, devised by Professor Helmholtz, for testing the
color perception of the eye, or for comparing different lights, as to
their constituent color or their relative whiteness.

LEUCOSOID
Leu"co*soid, a. Etym: [NL. Leucosia, the typical genus (fr. Gr. -
oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Leucosoidea, a tribe of marine crabs
including the box crab or Calappa.

LEUCOSPHERE
Leu"co*sphere, n. Etym: [Leuco- + sphere.] (Astron.)

Defn: The inner corona. [R.]

LEUCOTURIC
Leu`co*tu"ric, a. Etym: [Leuco- + allantoic + uric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic substance
of the uric acid group, called leucoturic acid or oxalantin. See
Oxalantin.

LEUCOUS
Leu"cous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: White; -- applied to albinos, from the whiteness of their skin
and hair.

LEUCOXENE
Leu*cox"ene, n. Etym: [Leuco- + Gr. xe`nos stranger.] (Min.)

Defn: A nearly opaque white mineral, in part identical with titanite,
observed in some igneous rocks as the result of the alteration of
titanic iron.

LEUKAEMIA
Leu*kæ"mi*a, n.

Defn: Leucocythæmia.

LEUKE; LEUKENESS
Leuke, a., Leuke"ness, n.

Defn: See Luke, etc.

LEUKOPLAST
Leu"ko*plast, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Leucoplast.

LEUKOPLAST
Leu"ko*plast (lu"ko*plast), n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Leucoplast.

LEVANA
Le*va"na, n. Etym: [L., fr. levare to raise.] (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: A goddess who protected newborn infants.

LEVANT
Le"vant, a. Etym: [F., p. pr. of lever to raise.] (Law)

Defn: Rising or having risen from rest; -- said of cattle. See
Couchant and levant, under Couchant.

LEVANT
Le*vant", n. Etym: [It. levante the point where the sum rises, the
east, the Levant, fr.levare to raise, levarsi to rise: cf. F. levant.
See Lever.]

1. The countries washed by the eastern part of the Mediterranean and
its contiguous waters.

2. A levanter (the wind so called).

LEVANT
Le"vant, a.

Defn: Eastern. [Obs.]
Forth rush the levant and the ponent winds. Milton.

LEVANT
Le*vant", v. i. Etym: [Cf. Sp. levantar to raise, go from one place
to another.]

Defn: To run away from one's debts; to decamp. [Colloq. Eng.]
Thackeray.

LEVANTER
Le*vant"er, n. Etym: [From Levant, v.]

Defn: One who levants, or decamps. [Colloq. Eng.]

LEVANTER
Le*vant"er, n. Etym: [From Levant, n.]

Defn: A strong easterly wind peculiar to the Mediterranean. W. H.
Russell.

LEVANTINE
Le*vant"ine, a. Etym: [F. levantin, or It. levantino. See Levant, n.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Levant. J. Spencer.

LEVANTINE
Le*vant"ine, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of the Levant.

2. Etym: [F. levantine, or It. levantina.]

Defn: A stout twilled silk fabric, formerly made in the Levant.

LEVARI FACIAS
Le*va`ri fa"ci*as. Etym: [Law L., cause to be levied.]

Defn: A writ of execution at common law.

LEVATION
Le*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. levatio.]

Defn: The act of raising; elevation; upward motion, as that produced
by the action of a levator muscle.

LEVATOR
Le*va"tor, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. levare to raise. See Lever, n.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle that serves to raise some part, as the lip or the
eyelid.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: A surgical instrument used to raise a depressed part of the
skull.

LEVE
Leve, a.

Defn: Dear. See Lief. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEVE
Leve, n. & v.

Defn: Same as 3d & 4th Leave. [Obs.]

LEVE
Leve, v. i.

Defn: To live. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEVE
Leve, v. t. Etym: [OE., fr. AS. l, abbrev. fr. gel. See Believe.]

Defn: To believe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEVE
Leve, v. t. Etym: [OE. leven, AS. l, l. See Leave permission.]

Defn: To grant; -- used esp. in exclamations or prayers followed by a
dependent clause. [Obs.]
God leve all be well. Chaucer.

LEVECHE
Le*ve"che, n. [Sp. Cf. Lebeccio.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A dry sirocco of Spain.

LEVEE
Lev"ee, n. Etym: [F. lever, fr. lever to raise, se lever to rise. See
Lever, n.]

1. The act of rising. " The sun's levee." Gray.

2. A morning assembly or reception of visitors, -- in distinction
from a soirée, or evening assembly; a matinée; hence, also, any
general or somewhat miscellaneous gathering of guests, whether in the
daytime or evening; as, the president's levee.

Note: In England a ceremonious day reception, when attended by both
ladies and gentlemen, is called a drawing-room.

LEVEE
Lev"ee, v. t.

Defn: To attend the levee or levees of.
He levees all the great. Young.

LEVEE
Lev"ee, n. Etym: [F. levée, fr. lever to raise. See Lever, and cf.
Levy.]

Defn: An embankment to prevent inundation; as, the levees along the
Mississippi; sometimes, the steep bank of a river. [U. S. ]

LEVEE
Lev"ee, v. t.

Defn: To keep within a channel by means of levees; as, to levee a
river. [U. S.]

LEVEE EN MASSE
Le*vée" en` masse". Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Levy in mass, under Levy, n.

LEVEFUL
Leve"ful, a. Etym: [Leve, n. + -ful.]

Defn: Allowable; permissible; lawful. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEVEL
Lev"el, n. Etym: [OE. level, livel, OF. livel, F. niveau, fr. L.
libella level, water level, a plumb level, dim. of libra pound,
measure for liquids, balance, water poise, level. Cf. Librate,
Libella.]

1. A line or surface to which, at every point, a vertical or plumb
line is perpendicular; a line or surface which is everywhere parallel
to the surface of still water; -- this is the true level, and is a
curve or surface in which all points are equally distant from the
center of the earth, or rather would be so if the earth were an exact
sphere.

2. A horizontal line or plane; that is, a straight line or a plane
which is tangent to a true level at a given point and hence parallel
to the horizon at that point; -- this is the apparent level at the
given point.

3. An approximately horizontal line or surface at a certain degree of
altitude, or distance from the center of the earth; as, to climb from
the level of the coast to the l of the plateau and then descent to
the level of the valley or of the sea.
After draining of the level in Northamptonshire. Sir M. Hale.
Shot from the deadly level of a gun. Shak.

4. Hence, figuratively, a certain position, rank, standard, degree,
quality, character, etc., conceived of as in one of several planes of
different elevation.
Providence, for the most part, sets us on a level. Addison.
Somebody there of his own level. Swift.
Be the fair level of thy actions laid As temperance wills and
prudence may persuade. Prior.

5. A uniform or average height; a normal plane or altitude; a
condition conformable to natural law or which will secure a level
surface; as, moving fluids seek a level.
When merit shall find its level. F. W. Robertson.

6. (Mech. & Surv.)
(a) An instrument by which to find a horizontal line, or adjust
something with reference to a horizontal line.
(b) A measurement of the difference of altitude of two points, by
means of a level; as, to take a level.

7. A horizontal passage, drift, or adit, in mine. Air level, a spirit
level. See Spirit level (below).
 -- Box level, a spirit level in which a glass-covered box is used
instead of a tube.
 -- Garpenter's level, Mason's level, either the plumb level or a
straight bar of wood, in which is imbedded a small spirit level.
 -- Level of the sea, the imaginary level from which heights and
depths are calculated, taken at a mean distance between high and low
water.
 -- Line of levels, a connected series of measurements, by means of a
level, along a given line, as of a railroad, to ascertain the profile
of the ground.
 -- Plumb level, one in which a horizontal bar is placed in true
position by means of a plumb line, to which it is at right angles.
 -- Spirit level, one in which the adjustment to the horizon is shown
by the position of a bubble in alcohol or ether contained in a nearly
horizontal glass tube, or a circular box with a glass cover.
 -- Surveyor's level, a telescope, with a spirit level attached, and
with suitable screws, etc., for accurate adjustment, the whole
mounted on a tripod, for use in leveling; -- called also leveling
instrument.
 -- Water level, an instrument to show the level by means the surface
of water in a trough, or in upright tubes connected by a pipe.

LEVEL
Lev"el, a.

1. Even; flat; having no part higher than another; having, or
conforming to, the curvature which belongs to the undisturbed liquid
parts of the earth's surface; as, a level field; level ground; the
level surface of a pond or lake.
Ample spaces o'er the smooth And level pavement. Milton.

2. Coinciding or parallel with the plane of the horizon; horizontal;
as, the telescope is now level.

3. Even with anything else; of the same height; on the same line or
plane; on the same footing; of equal importance; -- followed by with,
sometimes by to.
Young boys and girls Are level now with men; the odds is gone. Shak.
Everything lies level to our wish. Shak.

4. Straightforward; direct; direct; clear; open.
A very plain and level account. M. Arnold.

5. Well balanced; even; just; steady; impartial; as, a level head; a
level understanding. [Colloq.] " A level consideration." Shak.

6. (Phonetics)

Defn: Of even tone; without rising or falling inflection. H. Sweet.
Level line (Shipbuilding), the outline of a section which is
horizontal crosswise, and parallel with the rabbet of the keel
lengthwise. Level surface (Physics), an equipotential surface at
right angles at every point to the lines of force.

LEVEL
Lev"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leveled or Levelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Leveling or Levelling.]

1. To make level; to make horizontal; to bring to the condition of a
level line or surface; hence, to make flat or even; as, to level a
road, a walk, or a garden.

2. To bring to a lower level; to overthrow; to topple down; to reduce
to a flat surface; to lower.
And their proud structures level with the ground. Sandys.
He levels mountains and he raises plains. Dryden.

3. To bring to a horizontal position, as a gun; hence, to point in
taking aim; to aim; to direct.
Bertram de Gordon, standing on the castle wall, leveled a quarrel out
of a crossbow. Stow.

4. Figuratively, to bring to a common level or plane, in respect of
rank, condition, character, privilege, etc.; as, to level all the
ranks and conditions of men.

5. To adjust or adapt to a certain level; as, to level remarks to the
capacity of children.
For all his mind on honor fixed is, To which he levels all his
purposes. Spenser.

LEVEL
Lev"el, v. i.

1. To be level; to be on a level with, or on an equality with,
something; hence, to accord; to agree; to suit. [Obs.]
With such accommodation and besort As levels with her breeding. Shak.

2. To aim a gun, spear, etc., horizontally; hence, to aim or point a
weapon in direct line with the mark; fig., to direct the eye, mind,
or effort, directly to an object.
The foeman may with as great aim level at the edge of a penknife.
Shak.
The glory of God and the good of his church . . . ought to be the
mark whereat we also level. Hooker.
She leveled at our purposes. Shak.

LEVELER
Lev"el*er, n. Etym: [Written also leveller.]

1. One who, or that which, levels.

2. One who would remove social inequalities or distinctions; a
socialist.

LEVELING
Lev"el*ing, n. Etym: [Written also levelling.]

1. The act or operation of making level.

2. (Surveying)

Defn: The art or operation of using a leveling instrument for finding
a horizontal line, for ascertaining the differences of level between
different points of the earth's surface included in a survey, for
establishing grades, etc., as in finding the descent of a river, or
locating a line of railroad. Leveling instrument. See Surveyor's
level, under Level, n.
 -- Leveling staff, a graduated rod or staff used in connection with
a leveling instrument for measuring differences of level between
points.

LEVELISM
Lev"el*ism, n.

Defn: The disposition or endeavor to level all distinctions of rank
in society.

LEVELLY
Lev"el*ly, adv.

Defn: In an even or level manner.

LEVELNESS
Lev"el*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being level.

LEVEN
Lev"en, n. Etym: [See Levin.]

Defn: Lightning. [Obs.]
Wild thunder dint and fiery leven. Chaucer.

LEVER
Lev"er, a. Etym: [Old compar. of leve or lief.]

Defn: More agreeable; more pleasing. [Obs.] Chaucer. To be lever
than. See Had as lief, under Had.

LEVER
Lev"er, adv.

Defn: Bather. [Obs.] Chaucer.
For lever had I die than see his deadly face. Spenser.

LEVER
Le"ver, n. Etym: [OE. levour, OF. leveor, prop., a lifter, fr. F.
lever to raise, L. levare; akin to levis light in weight, E. levity,
and perh. to E. light not heavy: cf. F. levier. Cf. Alleviate,
Elevate, Leaven, Legerdemain, Levy, n.]

1. (Mech.)

Defn: A rigid piece which is capable of turning about one point, or
axis (the fulcrum), and in which are two or more other points where
forces are applied; -- used for transmitting and modifying force and
motion. Specif., a bar of metal, wood, or other rigid substance, used
to exert a pressure, or sustain a weight, at one point of its length,
by receiving a force or power at a second, and turning at a third on
a fixed point called a fulcrum. It is usually named as the first of
the six mechanical powers, and is three kinds, according as either
the fulcrum F, the weight W, or the power P. respectively, is
situated between the other two, as in the figures.

2. (Mach.)
(a) A bar, as a capstan bar, applied to a rotatory piece to turn it.
(b) An arm on a rock shaft, to give motion to the shaft or to obtain
motion from it. Compound lever, a machine consisting of two or more
levers acting upon each other.
 -- Lever escapement. See Escapement.
 -- Lever jack. See Jack, n., 5.
 -- Lever watch, a watch having a vibrating lever to connect the
action of the escape wheel with that of the balance. Universal lever,
a machine formed by a combination of a lever with the wheel and axle,
in such a manner as to convert the reciprocating motion of the lever
into a continued rectilinear motion of some body to which the power
is applied.

LEVERAGE
Lev"er*age, n.

Defn: The action of a lever; mechanical advantage gained by the
lever. Leverage of a couple (Mech.), the perpendicular distance
between the lines of action of two forces which act in parallel and
opposite directions.
 -- Leverage of a force, the perpendicular distance from the line in
which a force acts upon a body to a point about which the body may be
supposed to turn.

LEVERET
Lev"er*et, n. Etym: [F. levraut, dim. of lièvre hare, L. lepus. Cf.
Leporine.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hare in the first year of its age.

LEVEROCK
Lev"er*ock, n. Etym: [See Lark.]

Defn: A lark. [Scot.]

LEVERWOOD
Lev"er*wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The American hop hornbeam (Ostrya Virginica), a small tree with
very tough wood.

LEVESEL
Lev"e*sel, n. Etym: [AS. leáf a leaf + sæl, sel, a room, a hall.]

Defn: A leafy shelter; a place covered with foliage. [Obs.]
Behind the mill, under a levesel. Chaucer.

LEVET
Lev"et, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lever to raise.]

Defn: A trumpet call for rousing soldiers; a reveille. [Obs.]
Hudibras.

LEVIABLE
Lev"i*a*ble, a. Etym: [From Levy to assess.]

Defn: Fit to be levied; capable of being assessed and collected; as,
sums leviable by course of law. Bacon.

LEVIATHAN
Le*vi"a*than, n. Etym: [Heb. livyathan.]

1. An aquatic animal, described in the book of Job, ch. xli., and
mentioned on other passages of Scripture.

Note: It is not certainly known what animal is intended, whether the
crocodile, the whale, or some sort of serpent.

2. The whale, or a great whale. Milton.

LEVIER
Lev"i*er, n.

Defn: One who levees. Cartwright.

LEVIGABLE
Lev"i*ga*ble a. Etym: [See Levigate, v. t.]

Defn: Capable of being levigated.

LEVIGATE
Lev"i*gate, a. Etym: [L. levigatus, p. p. of levigare to lighten, fr.
l light.]

Defn: Made less harsh or burdensome; alleviated. [Obs.] Sir. T.
Elyot.

LEVIGATE
Lev"i*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Levigated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Levigating.] Etym: [L. levigatus, p. p. of levigare to make smooth,
fr. l smooth; akin to Gr.

Defn: To make smooth in various senses:
(a) To free from grit; to reduce to an impalpable powder or paste.
(b) To mix thoroughly, as liquids or semiliquids.
(c) To polish.
(d) To make smooth in action. " When use hath levigated the organs."
Barrow.
(e) Technically, to make smooth by rubbing in a moist condition
between hard surfaces, as in grinding pigments.

LEVIGATE
Lev"i*gate, a. Etym: [L. levigatus, p. p.]

Defn: Made smooth, as if polished.

LEVIGATION
Lev"i*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. levigatio a smoothing: cf. F.
lévigation.]

Defn: The act or operation of levigating.

LEVIN
Lev"in, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain. Cf. Leven.]

Defn: Lightning. [Obs.] Spenser. Levin brand, a thunderbolt. [Obs.]
Spenser.

LEVINER
Lev"in*er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A swift hound.

LEVIR
Le"vir, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A husband's brother; -- used in reference to levirate
marriages.

LEVIRATE; LEVIRATICAL
Lev"i*rate, Lev`i*rat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. levir a husband's brother,
brother-in-law; akin to Gr. lévirat leviration.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or in accordance with, a law of the ancient
Israelites and other tribes and races, according to which a woman,
whose husband died without issue, was married to the husband's
brother.
The firstborn son of a leviratical marriage was reckoned and
registered as the son of the deceased brother. Alford.

LEVIRATION
Lev`i*ra"tion, n.

Defn: Levirate marriage or marriages. Kitto.

LEVIROSTRES
Lev`i*ros"tres, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. levis light + rostrum
beak.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of birds, including the hornbills, kingfishers, and
related forms.

LEVITATE
Lev"i*tate, v. i. Etym: [L. levitas, -atis, lightness. See Levity.]

Defn: To rise, or tend to rise, as if lighter than the surrounding
medium; to become buoyant; -- opposed to gravitate. Sir. J. Herschel.

LEVITATE
Lev"i*tate, v. i. (Spiritualism)

Defn: To make buoyant; to cause to float in the air; as, to levitate
a table. [Cant]

LEVITATION
Lev`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. levis light in weight.]

1. Lightness; buoyancy; act of making light. Paley.

2. The act or process of making buoyant.

LEVITE
Le"vite, n. Etym: [L. Levites, Gr. Levi, one of the sons of Jacob.]

1. (Bib. Hist.)

Defn: One of the tribe or family of Levi; a descendant of Levi; esp.,
one subordinate to the priests (who were of the same tribe) and
employed in various duties connected with the tabernacle first, and
afterward the temple, such as the care of the building, bringing of
wood and other necessaries for the sacrifices, the music of the
services, etc.

2. A priest; so called in contempt or ridicule.

LEVITICAL
Le*vit"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Leviticus, Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to a Levite or the Levites.

2. Priestly. " Levitical questions." Milton.

3. Of or pertaining to, or designating, the law contained in the book
of Leviticus. Ayliffe. Levitical degrees, degrees of relationship
named in Leviticus, within which marriage is forbidden.

LEVITICALLY
Le*vit"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: After the manner of the Levites; in accordance with the
levitical law.

LEVITICUS
Le*vit"i*cus, n. Etym: [See Levitical.]

Defn: The third canonical book of the Old Testament, containing the
laws and regulations relating to the priests and Levites among the
Hebrews, or the body of the ceremonial law.

LEVITY
Lev"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. levitas, fr. levis light in weight; akin to
levare to raise. See Lever, n.]

1. The quality of weighing less than something else of equal bulk;
relative lightness, especially as shown by rising through, or
floating upon, a contiguous substance; buoyancy; -- opposed to
gravity.
He gave the form of levity to that which ascended; to that which
descended, the form of gravity. Sir. W. Raleigh.
This bubble by reason of its comparative levity to the fluidity that
incloses it, would ascend to the top. Bentley.

2. Lack of gravity and earnestness in deportment or character;
trifling gayety; frivolity; sportiveness; vanity. " A spirit of
levity and libertinism." Atterbury.
He never employed his omnipotence out of levity. Calamy.

3. Lack of steadiness or constancy; disposition to change;
fickleness; volatility.
The levity that is fatigued and disgusted with everything of which it
is in possession. Burke.

Syn.
 -- Inconstancy; thoughtlessness; unsteadiness; inconsideration;
volatility; flightiness.
 -- Levity, Volatility, Flightiness. All these words relate to
outward conduct. Levity springs from a lightness of mind which
produces a disregard of the proprieties of time and place.Volatility
is a degree of levity which causes the thoughts to fly from one
object to another, without resting on any for a moment. Flightiness
is volatility carried to an extreme which often betrays its subject
into gross impropriety or weakness. Levity of deportment, of conduct,
of remark; volatility of temper, of spirits; flightiness of mind or
disposition.

LEVO-
Le"vo-.

Defn: A prefix from L. laevus, meaning:
(a) Pertaining to, or toward, the left; as, levorotatory.
(b) (Chem. & Opt.) Turning the plane of polarized light to the left;
as, levotartaric acid; levoracemic acid; levogyratory crystals, etc.
[Written also lævo-.]

LEVOGYRATE
Le`vo*gy"rate, a. Etym: [Levo- + gyrate.] (Chem. & Physics)

Defn: Turning or twisting the plane of polarization towards the left,
as levulose, levotartaric acid, etc. [Written also lævogyrate.]

LEVOROTATION
Le`vo*ro*ta"tion, n. [Written also lævorotation.] [Levo- + rotation.]
(Physics & Chem.)

Defn: Rotation in the direction of an outgoing right-handed screw;
counter-clockwise rotation; -- applied chiefly to the turning of the
plane of polarization of light.

LEVOROTATORY
Le`vo*ro"ta*to*ry, a. Etym: [Levo- + rotatory.] (Chem. & Physics)

Defn: Turning or rotating the plane of polarization towards the left;
levogyrate, as levulose, left handed quartz crystals, etc. [Written
also lævorotatory.]

LEVULIN
Lev"u*lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance resembling dextrin, obtained from the bulbs of the
dahlia, the artichoke, and other sources, as a colorless, spongy,
amorphous material. It is so called because by decomposition it
yields levulose. [Written also lævulin.]

LEVULINIC
Lev`u*lin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or denoting, an acid (called also acetyl-
propionic acid), C5H8O3, obtained by the action of dilute acids on
various sugars (as levulose). [Written also lævulinic.]

LEVULOSAN
Lev`u*lo"san, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An unfermentable carbohydrate obtained by gently heating
levulose.

LEVULOSE
Lev"u*lose`, n. Etym: [See Levo-.] (Chem.)

Defn: A sirupy variety of sugar, rarely obtained crystallized,
occurring widely in honey, ripe fruits, etc., and hence called also
fruit sugar. It is called levulose, because it rotates the plane of
polarization to the left. [Written also lævulose.]C6H12O6.

Note: It is obtained, together with an equal quantity of dextrose, by
the inversion of ordinary cane or beet sugar, and hence, as being an
ingredient of invert sugar, is often so called. It is fermentable,
nearly as sweet as cane sugar, and is metameric with dextrose. Cf.
Dextrose.

LEVY
Lev"y, n.; pl. Levies. Etym: [A contr. of elevenpence or elevenpenny
bit.]

Defn: A name formerly given in Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia
to the Spanish real of one eight of a dollar (or 12

LEVY
Lev"y, n. Etym: [F. levée, fr. lever to raise. See Lever, and cf.
Lever.]

1. The act of levying or collecting by authority; as, the levy of
troops, taxes, etc.
A levy of all the men left under sixty. Thirlwall.

2. That which is levied, as an army, force, tribute, etc. " The Irish
levies." Macaulay.

3. (Law)

Defn: The taking or seizure of property on executions to satisfy
judgments, or on warrants for the collection of taxes; a collecting
by execution. Levy in mass Etym: [F. levée en masse], a requisition
of all able-bodied men for military service.

LEVY
Lev"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Levied; p. pr. & vb. n. Levying.]

1. To raise, as a siege. [Obs.] Holland.

2. To raise; to collect; said of troops, to form into an army by
enrollment, conscription. etc.
Augustine . . . inflamed Ethelbert, king of Kent, to levy his power,
and to war against them. Fuller.

3. To raise or collect by assessment; to exact by authority; as, to
levy taxes, toll, tribute, or contributions.
If they do this . . . my ransom, then, Will soon be levied. Shak.

4. (Law)
(a) To gather or exact; as, to levy money.
(b) To erect, build, or set up; to make or construct; to raise or
cast up; as, to levy a mill, dike, ditch, a nuisance, etc. [Obs.]
Cowell. Blackstone.
(c) To take or seize on execution; to collect by execution. To levy a
fine, to commence and carry on a suit for assuring the title to lands
or tenements. Blackstone.
 -- To levy war, to make or begin war; to take arms for attack; to
attack.

LEVY
Lev"y, v. i.

Defn: To seize property, real or personal, or subject it to the
operation of an execution; to make a levy; as, to levy on property;
the usual mode of levying, in England, is by seizing the goods. To
levy on goods and chattels, to take into custody or seize specific
property in satisfaction of a writ.

LEVYNE; LEVYNITE
Lev"yne, Lev"yn*ite, n. Etym: [From Mr. Levy, an English
mineralogist.] (Min.)

Defn: A whitish, reddish, or yellowish, transparent or translucent
mineral, allied to chabazite.

LEW
Lew, a. Etym: [Cf. lee a calm or sheltered place, lukewarm.]

Defn: Lukewarm; tepid. [Obs.] Wyclif.

LEWD
Lewd, a. [Compar. Lewder; superl. Lewdest.] Etym: [OE.lewed, lewd,
lay, ignorant, vile, AS. l laical, belonging to the laity.]

1. Not clerical; laic; laical; hence, unlearned; simple. [Obs.]
For if priest be foul, on whom we trust, No wonder is a lewed man to
rust. Chaucer.
So these great clerks their little wisdom show To mock the lewd, as
learn'd in this as they. Sit. J. Davies.

2. Belonging to the lower classes, or the rabble; idle and lawless;
bad; vicious. [Archaic] Chaucer.
But the Jews, which believed not, . . . took unto them certain lewd
fellows of the baser sort, . . . and assaulted the house of Jason.
Acts xvii. 5.
Too lewd to work, and ready for any kind of mischief. Southey
.

3. Given to the promiscuous indulgence of lust; dissolute; lustful;
libidinous. Dryden.

4. Suiting, or proceeding from, lustfulness; involving unlawful
sexual desire; as, lewd thoughts, conduct, or language.

Syn.
 -- Lustful; libidinous; licentious; profligate; dissolute; sensual;
unchaste; impure; lascivious; lecherous; rakish; debauched.
 -- Lewd"ly, adv.
 -- Lewd"ness, n.

LEWDSTER
Lewd"ster, n.

Defn: A lewd person. [Obs.] Shak.

LEWIS; LEWISSON
Lew"is, Lew"is*son, n.

1. An iron dovetailed tenon, made in sections, which can be fitted
into a dovetail mortise; -- used in hoisting large stones, etc.

2. A kind of shears used in cropping woolen cloth. Lewis hole, a hole
wider at the bottom than at the mouth, into which a lewis is fitted.
De Foe.

LEX
Lex, n.; pl. Leges. Etym: [L. See Legal.]

Defn: Law; as, lex talionis, the law of retaliation; lex terræ, the
law of the land; lex fori, the law of the forum or court; lex loci,
the law of the place; lex mercatoria, the law or custom of merchants.

LEXICAL
Lex"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a lexicon, to lexicography, or words;
according or conforming to a lexicon.
 -- Lex"ic*al*ly, adv.

LEXICOGRAPHER
Lex`i*cog"ra*pher, n. Etym: [Gr. lexicographe. See Lexicon.]

Defn: The author or compiler of a lexicon or dictionary.
Every other author may aspire to praise; the lexicographer can only
hope to escape reproach; and even this negative recompense has been
yet granted to very few. Johnson.

LEXICOGRAPHIC; LEXICOGRAPHICAL
Lex`i*co*graph"ic, Lex`i*co*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
lexicographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or according to, lexicography.
 -- Lex`i*co*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

LEXICOGRAPHIST
Lex`i*cog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: A lexicographer. [R.] Southey.

LEXICOGRAPHY
Lex`i*cog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lexicographie.]

Defn: The art, process, or occupation of making a lexicon or
dictionary; the principles which are applied in making dictionaries.

LEXICOLOGIST
Lex`i*col"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in lexicology.

LEXICOLOGY
Lex`i*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. lexicologie.]

Defn: The science of the derivation and signification of words; that
branch of learning which treats of the signification and application
of words.

LEXICON
Lex"i*con, n. Etym: [Gr. Legend.]

Defn: A vocabulary, or book containing an alphabetical arrangement of
the words in a language or of a considerable number of them, with the
definition of each; a dictionary; especially, a dictionary of the
Greek, Hebrew, or Latin language.

LEXICONIST
Lex"i*con*ist, n.

Defn: A writer of a lexicon. [R.]

LEXIGRAPHIC
Lex`i*graph"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lexigraphique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to lexigraphy.

LEXIGRAPHY
Lex*ig"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy: cf. F. lexigraphie.]

Defn: The art or practice of defining words; definition of words.

LEXIPHANIC
Lex`i*phan"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Using, or interlarded with, pretentious words; bombastic; as, a
lexiphanic writer or speaker; lexiphanic writing.

LEXIPHANICISM
Lex`i*phan"i*cism, n.

Defn: The use of pretentious words, language, or style.

LEXIPHARMIC
Lex`i*phar"mic, a.

Defn: See Alexipharmic.

LEY
Ley, v. i.

Defn: , & i. To lay; to wager. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEY
Ley, n. Etym: [OF.]

Defn: Law. Abbott.

LEY
Ley, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Lye.

LEY
Ley, n.

Defn: Grass or meadow land; a lea.

LEY
Ley, a.

Defn: Fallow; unseeded. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

LEYDEN JAR; LEYDEN PHIAL
Ley"den jar", Ley"den phi"al, (Elec.)

Defn: A glass jar or bottle used to accumulate electricity. It is
coated with tin foil, within and without, nearly to its top, and is
surmounted by a brass knob which communicates with the inner coating,
for the purpose of charging it with electricity. It is so named from
having been invented in Leyden, Holland.

LEYSER
Ley"ser, n.

Defn: Leisure. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEZE MAJESTY
Leze` maj"es*ty. Etym: [F. lese-majesté, fr. L. laesus, fem. laesa,
injured (see Lesion) + majestas majesty; that is, crimen laesae
majestatis.] [Written also lese majesty.] (Law)

Defn: Any crime committed against the sovereign power.

LHERZOLITE
Lher"zo*lite, n. Etym: [From Lherz, a place in the Pyrenees + -lite.]
(Min.)

Defn: An igneous rock consisting largely of chrysolite, with pyroxene
and picotite (a variety of spinel containing chromium).

LI
Li, n.

1. Chinese measure of distance, being a little more that one third of
a mile.

2. A Chinese copper coin; a cash. See Cash.

LIABILITY
Li`a*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Liabilities (.

1. The state of being liable; as, the liability of an insurer;
liability to accidents; liability to the law.

2. That which one is under obligation to pay, or for which one is
liable. Specifically, in the pl.,

Defn: the sum of one's pecuniary obligations; -- opposed to assets.
Limited liability. See Limited company, under Limited.

LIABLE
Li"a*ble, a. Etym: [From F. lier to bind, L. ligare. Cf. Ally, v. t.,
Ligature.]

1. Bound or obliged in law or equity; responsible; answerable; as,
the surety is liable for the debt of his principal.

2. Exposed to a certain contingency or casualty, more or less
probable; -- with to and an infinitive or noun; as, liable to slip;
liable to accident.

Syn.
 -- Accountable; responsible; answerable; bound; subject; obnoxious;
exposed.
 -- Liable, Subject. Liable refers to a future possible or probable
happening which may not actually occur; as, horses are liable to
slip; even the sagacious are liable to make mistakes. Subject refers
to any actual state or condition belonging to the nature or
circumstances of the person or thing spoken of, or to that which
often befalls one. One whose father was subject to attacks of the
gout is himself liable to have that disease. Men are constantly
subject to the law, but liable to suffer by its infraction.
Proudly secure, yet liable to fall. Milton.
All human things are subject to decay. Dryden.

LIABLENESS
Li"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being liable; liability.

LIAGE
Li"age, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. liage a bond. See Liable.]

Defn: Union by league; alliance. [Obs.]

LIAISON
Li`ai`son", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. ligatio, fr. ligare to bind. See
Ligature, and cf. Ligation.]

Defn: A union, or bond of union; an intimacy; especially, an illicit
intimacy between a man and a woman.

LIANE; LIANA
Li*ane", Li*a"na, n. Etym: [F. liane; prob. akin to lien a band, fr.
L. ligamen, fr. ligare to bind. Cf. Lien, n. ] (Bot.)

Defn: A luxuriant woody plant, climbing high trees and having
ropelike stems. The grapevine often has the habit of a liane. Lianes
are abundant in the forests of the Amazon region.

LIAR
Li"ar, n. Etym: [OE. liere. See Lie to falsify.]

Defn: A person who knowingly utters falsehood; one who lies.

LIARD
Li"ard, a. Etym: [OF. liart, LL. liardus gray, dappie.]

Defn: Gray. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Note: Used by Chaucer as an epithet of a gray or dapple gray horse.
Also used as a name for such a horse.

LIARD
Liard, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A French copper coin of one fourth the value of a sou.

LIAS
Li"as, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lias, fr. liais sort of limestone, OF. also
liois; perh. of Celtic origin, cf. Armor. liach, leach, a stone,
Gael. leac, W. llech. Cf. Cromlech.] (Geol.)

Defn: The lowest of the three divisions of the Jurassic period; a
name given in England and Europe to a series of marine limestones
underlying the Oölite. See the Chart of Geology.

LIASSIC
Li*as"sic, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Of the age of the Lias; pertaining to the Lias Formation.
 -- n.

Defn: Same as Lias.

LIB
Lib, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Glib to geld.]

Defn: To castrate. [Obs.]

LIBAMENT
Lib"a*ment, n. Etym: [L. libamentum.]

Defn: Libation. [Obs.] Holland.

LIBANT
Li"bant, a. Etym: [L. libans, p. pr. of libare to taste, touch.]

Defn: Sipping; touching lightly. [R.] Landor.

LIBATION
Li*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. libatio, fr. libare to take a little from
anything, to taste, to pour out as an offering: cf. F. libation.]

Defn: The act of pouring a liquid or liquor, usually wine, either on
the ground or on a victim in sacrifice, in honor of some deity; also,
the wine or liquid thus poured out. Dryden.
A heathen sacrifice or libation to the earth. Bacon.

LIBATORY
Li"ba*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to libation.

LIBBARD
Lib"bard, n. Etym: [See Leopard.]

Defn: A leopard. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser. Keats.

LIBBARD'S BANE
Lib"bard's bane`

Defn: . Leopard's bane. [Obs.]

LIBEL
Li"bel, n. Etym: [L. libellus a little book, pamphlet, libel,
lampoon, dim. of liber the liber or inner bark of a tree; also
(because the ancients wrote on this bark), paper, parchment, or a
roll of any material used to write upon, and hence, a book or
treatise: cf. F. libelle.]

1. A brief writing of any kind, esp. a declaration, bill,
certificate, request, supplication, etc. [Obs.] Chaucer.
A libel of forsaking [divorcement]. Wyclif (Matt. v. 31).

2. Any defamatory writing; a lampoon; a satire.

3. (Law)

Defn: A malicious publication expressed either in print or in
writing, or by pictures, effigies, or other signs, tending to expose
another to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule. Such publication is
indictable at common law.

Note: The term, in a more extended sense, includes the publication of
such writings, pictures, and the like, as are of a blasphemous,
treasonable, seditious, or obscene character. These also are
indictable at common law.

4. (Law)

Defn: The crime of issuing a malicious defamatory publication.

5. (Civil Law & Courts of Admiralty)

Defn: A written declaration or statement by the plaintiff of his
cause of action, and of the relief he seeks.

LIBEL
Li"bel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Liebeled or Libelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Libeling or Libelling.]

1. To defame, or expose to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule, by a
writing, picture, sign, etc.; to lampoon.
Some wicked wits have libeled all the fair. Pope.

2. (Law)

Defn: To proceed against by filing a libel, particularly against a
ship or goods.

LIBEL
Li"bel, v. i.

Defn: To spread defamation, written or printed; -- with against.
[Obs.]
What's this but libeling against the senate Shak.
[He] libels now 'gainst each great man. Donne.

LIBELANT
Li"bel*ant, n.

Defn: One who libels; one who institutes a suit in an ecclesiastical
or admiralty court. [Written also libellant.] Cranch.

LIBELER
Li"bel*er, n.

Defn: One who libels. [Written also libeller.] " Libelers of others."
Buckkminster.

LIBELIST
Li"bel*ist, n.

Defn: A libeler.

LI BELLA
Li *bel"la, n. Etym: [L., dim. of libra balance. See Level, n.]

1. A small balance.

2. A level, or leveling instrument.

LIBELLEE
Li`bel*lee", n. (Law)
 (a) The party against whom a libel has been filed; -- corresponding
to defendant in a common law action.
 (b) The defendant in an action of libel.

LIBELLULID
Li*bel"lu*lid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A dragon fly.

LIBELLULOID
Li*bel"lu*loid, a. Etym: [NL. Libellula, the name of the typical
genus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the dragon fi

LIBELOUS
Li"bel*ous, a.

Defn: Containing or involving a libel; defamatory; containing that
which exposes some person to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule;
as, a libelous pamphlet. [Written also libellous.] -- Li"bel*ous*ly,
adv.

LIBER
Li"ber, n. Etym: [L. See Libel.] (Bot.)

Defn: The inner bark of plants, lying next to the wood. It usually
contains a large proportion of woody, fibrous cells, and is,
therefore, the part from which the fiber of the plant is obtained, as
that of hemp, etc. Liber cells, elongated woody cells found in the
liber.

LIBERAL
Lib"er*al, a. Etym: [F. libéral, L. liberalis, from liber free; perh.
akin to libet, lubet,it pleases, E. lief. Cf. Deliver.]

1. Free by birth; hence, befitting a freeman or gentleman; refined;
noble; independent; free; not servile or mean; as, a liberal
ancestry; a liberal spirit; liberal arts or studies. " Liberal
education." Macaulay. " A liberal tongue." Shak.

2. Bestowing in a large and noble way, as a freeman; generous;
bounteous; open-handed; as, a liberal giver. " Liberal of praise."
Bacon.
Infinitely good, and of his good As liberal and free as infinite.
Milton.

3. Bestowed in a large way; hence, more than sufficient; abundant;
bountiful; ample; profuse; as, a liberal gift; a liberal discharge of
matter or of water.
His wealth doth warrant a liberal dower. Shak.

4. Not strict or rigorous; not confined or restricted to the literal
sense; free; as, a liberal translation of a classic, or a liberal
construction of law or of language.

5. Not narrow or contracted in mind; not selfish; enlarged in spirit;
catholic.

6. Free to excess; regardless of law or moral restraint; licentious.
" Most like a liberal villain." Shak.

7. Not bound by orthodox tenets or established forms in political or
religious philosophy; independent in opinion; not conservative;
friendly to great freedom in the constitution or administration of
government; having tendency toward democratic or republican, as
distinguished from monarchical or aristocratic, forms; as, liberal
thinkers; liberal Christians; the Liberal party.
I confess I see nothing liberal in this " order of thoughts," as
Hobbes elsewhere expresses it. Hazlitt.

Note: Liberal has of, sometimes with, before the thing bestowed, in
before a word signifying action, and to before a person or object on
which anything is bestowed; as, to be liberal of praise or censure;
liberal with money; liberal in giving; liberal to the poor. The
liberal arts. See under Art.
 -- Liberal education, education that enlarges and disciplines the
mind and makes it master of its own powers, irrespective of the
particular business or profession one may follow.

Syn.
 -- Generous; bountiful; munificent; beneficent; ample; large;
profuse; free.
 -- Liberal, Generous. Liberal is freeborn, and generous is highborn.
The former is opposed to the ordinary feelings of a servile state,
and implies largeness of spirit in giving, judging, acting, etc. The
latter expresses that nobleness of soul which is peculiarly
appropriate to those of high rank, -- a spirit that goes out of self,
and finds its enjoyment in consulting the feelings and happiness of
others. Generosity is measured by the extent of the sacrifices it
makes; liberality, by the warmth of feeling which it manifests.

LIBERAL
Lib"er*al, n.

Defn: One who favors greater freedom in political or religious
matters; an opponent of the established systems; a reformer; in
English politics, a member of the Liberal party, so called. Cf. Whig.

LIBERALISM
Lib"er*al*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. libéralisme.]

Defn: Liberal principles; the principles and methods of the liberals
in politics or religion; specifically, the principles of the Liberal
party.

LIBERALIST
Lib"er*al*ist, n.

Defn: A liberal.

LIBERALISTIC
Lib`er*al*is"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, liberalism; as,
liberalistic opinions.

LIBERALITY
Lib`er*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Liberalities. Etym: [L. liberalitas: cf. F.
libéralité.]

1. The quality or state of being liberal; liberal disposition or
practice; freedom from narrowness or prejudice; generosity; candor;
charity.
That liberality is but cast away Which makes us borrow what we can
not pay. Denham.

2. A gift; a gratuity; -- sometimes in the plural; as, a prudent man
is not impoverished by his liberalities.

LIBERALIZATION
Lib`er*al*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of liberalizing.

LIBERALIZE
Lib"er*al*ize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Liberalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Liberalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. libéraliser.]

Defn: To make liberal; to free from narrow views or prejudices.
To open and to liberalize the mind. Burke.

LIBERALIZER
Lib"er*al*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, liberalizes. Emerson.

LIBERALLY
Lib"er*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a liberal manner.

LIBERATE
Lib"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Liberated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Liberating.] Etym: [L. liberatus, p. p. of liberare to free, fr.
liber free. See Liberal, a., and cf. Deliver.]

Defn: To release from restraint or bondage; to set at liberty; to
free; to manumit; to disengage; as, to liberate a slave or prisoner;
to liberate the mind from prejudice; to liberate gases.

Syn.
 -- To deliver; free; release. See Deliver.

LIBERATION
Lib`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. liberatio: cf. F. libération. Cf.
Livraison.]

Defn: The act of liberating or the state of being liberated.
This mode of analysis requires perfect liberation from all prejudged
system. Pownall.

LIBERATOR
Lib"er*a`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who, or that which, liberates; a deliverer.

LIBERATORY
Lib"er*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Tending, or serving, to liberate. [R.]

LIBERTARIAN
Lib`er*ta"ri*an, a. Etym: [See Liberty.]

Defn: Pertaining to liberty, or to the doctrine of free will, as
opposed to the doctrine of necessity.

LIBERTARIAN
Lib`er*ta"ri*an, n.

Defn: One who holds to the doctrine of free will.

LIBERTARIANISM
Lib`er*ta"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: Libertarian principles or doctrines.

LIBERTICIDE
Lib"er*ti*cide, n. Etym: [L. libertas liberty + caedere to kill: cf.
(for sense 2) F. liberticide.]

1. The destruction of civil liberty.

2. A destroyer of civil liberty. B. F. Wade.

LIBERTINAGE
Lib"er*tin*age n. Etym: [Cf. F. libertinage. See Libertine.]

Defn: Libertinism; license. [R.]

LIBERTINE
Lib"er*tine, n. Etym: [L. libertinus freedman, from libertus one made
free, fr. liber free: cf. F. libertin. See Liberal.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A manumitted slave; a freedman; also, the son of a freedman.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect of Anabaptists, in the fifteenth and early part
of the sixteenth century, who rejected many of the customs and
decencies of life, and advocated a community of goods and of women.

3. One free from restraint; one who acts according to his impulses
and desires; now, specifically, one who gives rein to lust; a rake; a
debauchee.
Like a puffed and reckless libertine, Himself the primrose path of
dalliance treads. Shak.

4. A defamatory name for a freethinker. [Obsoles.]

LIBERTINE
Lib"er*tine, a. Etym: [L. libertinus of a freedman: cf. F. libertin.
See Libertine, n. ]

1. Free from restraint; uncontrolled. [Obs.]
You are too much libertine. Beau. & Fl.

2. Dissolute; licentious; profligate; loose in morals; as, libertine
principles or manners. Bacon.

LIBERTINISM
Lib"er*tin*ism, n.

1. The state of a libertine or freedman. [R.] Hammond.

2. Licentious conduct; debauchery; lewdness.

3. Licentiousness of principle or opinion.
That spirit of religion and seriousness vanished all at once, and a
spirit of liberty and libertinism, of infidelity and profaneness,
started up in the room of it. Atterbury.

LIBERTY
Lib"er*ty, n.; pl. Liberties (. Etym: [OE. liberte, F. liberté, fr.
L. libertas, fr. liber free. See Liberal.]

1. The state of a free person; exemption from subjection to the will
of another claiming ownership of the person or services; freedom; --
opposed to slavery, serfdom, bondage, or subjection.
But ye . . . caused every man his servant, and every man his handmaid
whom he had set at liberty at their pleasure, to return, and brought
them into subjection. Jer. xxxiv. 16.
Delivered fro the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of
the sons of God. Bible, 1551. Rom. viii. 21.

2. Freedom from imprisonment, bonds, or other restraint upon
locomotion.
Being pent from liberty, as I am now. Shak.

3. A privilege conferred by a superior power; permission granted;
leave; as, liberty given to a child to play, or to a witness to leave
a court, and the like.

4. Privilege; exemption; franchise; immunity enjoyed by prescription
or by grant; as, the liberties of the commercial cities of Europe.
His majesty gave not an entire county to any; much less did he grant
. . . any extraordinary liberties. Sir J. Davies.

5. The place within which certain immunities are enjoyed, or
jurisdiction is exercised. [Eng.]
Brought forth into some public or open place within the liberty of
the city, and there . . . burned. Fuller.

6. A certain amount of freedom; permission to go freely within
certain limits; also, the place or limits within which such freedom
is exercised; as, the liberties of a prison.

7. A privilege or license in violation of the laws of etiquette or
propriety; as, to permit, or take, a liberty.
He was repeatedly provoked into striking those who had taken
liberties with him. Macaulay.

8. The power of choice; freedom from necessity; freedom from
compulsion or constraint in willing.
The idea of liberty is the idea of a power in any agent to do or
forbear any particular action, according to the determination or
thought of the mind, whereby either of them is preferred to the
other. Locke.
This liberty of judgment did not of necessity lead to lawlessness. J.
A. Symonds.

9. (Manege)

Defn: A curve or arch in a bit to afford room for the tongue of the
horse.

10. (Naut.)

Defn: Leave of absence; permission to go on shore. At liberty. (a)
Unconfined; free. (b) At leisure.
 -- Civil liberty, exemption from arbitrary interference with person,
opinion, or property, on the part of the government under which one
lives, and freedom to take part in modifying that government or its
laws.
 -- Liberty bell. See under Bell.
 -- Liberty cap. (a) The Roman pileus which was given to a slave at
his manumission. (b) A limp, close-fitting cap with which the head of
representations of the goddess of liberty is often decked. It is
sometimes represented on a spear or a liberty pole.
 -- Liberty of the press, freedom to print and publish without
official supervision. Liberty party, the party, in the American
Revolution, which favored independence of England; in more recent
usage, a party which favored the emancipation of the slaves.
 -- Liberty pole, a tall flagstaff planted in the ground, often
surmounted by a liberty cap. [U. S.] -- Moral liberty, that liberty
of choice which is essential to moral responsibility.
 -- Religious liberty, freedom of religious opinion and worship.

Syn.
 -- Leave; permission; license.
 -- Liberty, Freedom. These words, though often interchanged, are
distinct in some of of their applications. Liberty has reference to
previous restraint; freedom, to the simple, unrepressed exercise of
our powers. A slave is set at liberty; his master had always been in
a state of freedom. A prisoner under trial may ask liberty (exemption
from restraint) to speak his sentiments with freedom (the spontaneous
and bold utterance of his feelings), The liberty of the press is our
great security for freedom of thought.

LIBETHENITE
Li*beth"en*ite, n. Etym: [From Libethen, in Hungary, where it was
first found.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of an olive-green color, commonly in orthorhombic
crystals. It is a hydrous phosphate of copper.

LIBIDINIST
Li*bid"i*nist, n. Etym: [See Libidinous.]

Defn: One given to lewdness.

LIBIDINOSITY
Li*bid`i*nos"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being libidinous; libidinousness.
Skelton.

LIBIDINOUS
Li*bid"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. libidinosus, fr. libido, libidinis,
pleasure, desire, lust, fr. libet, lubet, it pleases: cf. F.
libidineux. See Lief.]

Defn: Having lustful desires; characterized by lewdness; sensual;
lascivious.
 -- Li*bid"i*nous*ly, adv.
 -- Li*bid"i*nous*ness, n.

Syn.
 -- Lewd; lustful; lascivious; unchaste; impure; sensual; licentious;
lecherous; salacious.

LIBKEN; LIBKIN
Lib"ken, Lib"kin, n. Etym: [AS. libban, F. live, v. i. + -kin.]

Defn: A house or lodging. [Old Slang] B. Jonson.

LIBRA
Li"bra, n.; pl. Libræ. Etym: [L., a balance.] (Astron.)
(a) The Balance; the seventh sign in the zodiac, which the sun enters
at the autumnal equinox in September, marked thus libra in almanacs,
etc. (b ) A southern constellation between Virgo and Scorpio.

LIBRAL
Li"bral, a. Etym: [L. libralis, fr. libra the Roman pound.]

Defn: Of a pound weight. [Obs.] Johnson.

LIBRARIAN
Li*bra"ri*an, n. Etym: [See Library.]

1. One who has the care or charge of a library.

2. One who copies manuscript books. [Obs.] Broome.

LIBRARIANSHIP
Li*bra"ri*an*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a librarian.

LIBRARY
Li"bra*ry, n.; pl. Libraries. Etym: [OE. librairie, F. librairie
bookseller's shop, book trade, formerly, a library, fr. libraire
bookseller, L. librarius, from liber book; cf. libraria bookseller's
shop, librarium bookcase, It. libreria. See Libel.]

1. A considerable collection of books kept for use, and not as
merchandise; as, a private library; a public library.

2. A building or apartment appropriated for holding such a collection
of books. Holland.

LIBRATE
Li"brate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Librated p. pr. & & vb. n. Librating.]
Etym: [L. libratus, p. p. of librare to balance, to make even, fr.
libra.Cf. Level, Deliberate, Equilibrium.]

Defn: To vibrate as a balance does before resting in equilibrium;
hence, to be poised.
Their parts all liberate on too nice a beam. Clifton.

LIBRATE
Li"brate, v. i.

Defn: To poise; to balance.

LIBRATION
Li*bra"tion, n. Etym: [L. libratio: cf. F. libration.]

1. The act or state of librating. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A real or apparent libratory motion, like that of a balance
before coming to rest. Libration of the moon, any one of those small
periodical changes in the position of the moon's surface relatively
to the earth, in consequence of which narrow portions at opposite
limbs become visible or invisible alternately. It receives different
names according to the manner in which it takes place; as: (a)
Libration in longitude, that which, depending on the place of the
moon in its elliptic orbit, causes small portions near the eastern
and western borders alternately to appear and disappear each month.
(b) Libration in latitude, that which depends on the varying position
of the moon's axis in respect to the spectator, causing the alternate
appearance and disappearance of either pole. (c) Diurnal or
parallactic libration, that which brings into view on the upper limb,
at rising and setting, some parts not in the average visible
hemisphere.

LIBRATORY
Li"bra*to*ry, a.

Defn: Balancing; moving like a balance, as it tends to an equipoise
or level.

LIBRETTIST
Li*bret"tist, n.

Defn: One who makes a libretto.

LIBRETTO
Li*bret"to, n.; pl. E. Librettos, It. Libretti. Etym: [It., dim. of
libro book, L. liber. See Libel.] (Mus.)
(a) A book containing the words of an opera or extended piece of
music.
(b) The words themselves.

LIBRIFORM
Li"bri*form, a. Etym: [Liber + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of liber, or resembling liber. Libriform cells,
peculiar wood cells which are very slender and relatively thick-
walled, and occasionally are furnished with bordered pits. Goodale.

LIBYAN
Lib"y*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Libya, the ancient name of that part of
Africa between Egypt and the Atlantic Ocean, or of Africa as a whole.

LICE
Lice, n.;

Defn: pl. of Louse.

LICENSABLE
Li"cens*a*ble, a.

Defn: That can be licensed.

LICENSE
Li"cense, n. [Written also licence.] Etym: [F. licence, L. licentia,
fr. licere to be permitted, prob. orig., to be left free to one; akin
to linquere to leave. See Loan, and cf. Illicit, Leisure.]

1. Authority or liberty given to do or forbear any act; especially, a
formal permission from the proper authorities to perform certain acts
or to carry on a certain business, which without such permission
would be illegal; a grant of permission; as, a license to preach, to
practice medicine, to sell gunpowder or intoxicating liquors.
To have a license and a leave at London to dwell. P. Plowman.

2. The document granting such permission. Addison.

3. Excess of liberty; freedom abused, or used in contempt of law or
decorum; disregard of law or propriety.
License they mean when they cry liberty. Milton.

4. That deviation from strict fact, form, or rule, in which an artist
or writer indulges, assuming that it will be permitted for the sake
of the advantage or effect gained; as, poetic license; grammatical
license, etc.

Syn.
 -- Leave; liberty; permission.

LICENSE
Li"cense, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Licensed; p. pr. & vb. n. Licensing.]

Defn: To permit or authorize by license; to give license to; as, to
license a man to preach. Milton. Shak.

LICENSED
Li"censed, a.

Defn: Having a license; permitted or authorized by license; as, a
licensed victualer; a licensed traffic. Licensed victualer, one who
has a license to keep an in or eating house; esp., a victualer who
has a license to sell intoxicating liquors.

LICENSEE
Li`cen*see", n. (Law)

Defn: The person to whom a license is given.

LICENSER
Li"cens*er, n.

Defn: One who gives a license; as, a licenser of the press.

LICENSURE
Li"cen*sure, n.

Defn: A licensing. [R.]

LICENTIATE
Li*cen"ti*ate, n. Etym: [LL. licentiatus, fr. licentiare to allow to
do anything, fr. L. licentia license. See License, n.]

1. One who has a license to exercise a profession; as, a licentiate
in medicine or theology.
The college of physicians, in July, 1687, published an edict,
requiring all the fellows, candidates, and licentiates, to give
gratuitous advice to the neighboring poor. Johnson.

2. A friar authorized to receive confessions and grant absolution in
all places, independently of the local clergy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. One who acts without restraint, or takes a liberty, as if having a
license therefor. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

4. On the continent of Europe, a university degree intermediate
between that of bachelor and that of doctor.

LICENTIATE
Li*cen"ti*ate, v. t.

Defn: To give a license to. [Obs.] L'Estrange.

LICENTIOUS
Li*cen"tious, a. Etym: [L. licentiosus: cf. F. licencieux. See
License.]

1. Characterized by license; passing due bounds; excessive; abusive
of freedom; wantonly offensive; as, a licentious press.
A wit that no licentious pertness knows. Savage.

2. Unrestrained by law or morality; lawless; immoral; dissolute;
lewd; lascivious; as, a licentious man; a licentious life.
"Licentious wickedness." Shak.

Syn.
 -- Unrestrained; uncurbed; uncontrolled; unruly; riotous;
ungovernable; wanton; profligate; dissolute; lax; loose; sensual;
impure; unchaste; lascivious; immoral.
 -- Li*cen"tious*ly, adv.
 -- Li*cen"tious*ness, n.

LICH
Lich, a.

Defn: Like. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

LICH
Lich, n. Etym: [AS.lic body. See Like, a.]

Defn: A dead body; a corpse. [Obs.] Lich fowl (Zoöl.), the European
goatsucker; -- called also lich owl.
 -- Lich gate, a covered gate through which the corpse was carried to
the church or burial place, and where the bier was placed to await
clergyman; a corpse gate. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
 -- Lich wake, the wake, or watching, held over a corpse before
burial. [Prov Eng.] Chaucer.
 -- Lich wall, the wall of a churchyard or burying ground.
 -- Lich way, the path by which the dead are carried to the grave.
[Prov. Eng.]

LICHEN
Li"chen, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: One of a class of cellular, flowerless plants, (technically
called Lichenes), having no distinction of leaf and stem, usually of
scaly, expanded, frond-like forms, but sometimes erect or pendulous
and variously branched. They derive their nourishment from the air,
and generate by means of spores. The species are very widely
distributed, and form irregular spots or patches, usually of a
greenish or yellowish color, upon rocks, trees, and various bodies,
to which they adhere with great tenacity. They are often improperly
called rock moss or tree moss.

Note: A favorite modern theory of lichens (called after its inventor
the Schwendener hypothesis), is that they are not autonomous plants,
but that they consist of ascigerous fungi, parasitic on algæ. Each
lichen is composed of white filaments and green, or greenish, rounded
cells, and it is argued that the two are of different nature, the one
living at the expense of the other. See Hyphæ, and Gonidia.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A name given to several varieties of skin disease, esp. to one
characterized by the eruption of small, conical or flat, reddish
pimples, which, if unchecked, tend to spread and produce great and
even fatal exhaustion.

LICHENED
Li"chened, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or covered with, lichens. Tennyson.

LICHENIC
Li*chen"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, lichens. Lichenic acid.
(a) An organic acid, C14H24O3 obtained from Iceland moss. (b) An old
name of fumaric acid.

LICHENIFORM
Li*chen"i*form, a.

Defn: Having the form of a lichen.

LICHENIN
Li"chen*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance isomeric with starch, extracted from several
species of moss and lichen, esp. from Iceland moss.

LICHENOGRAPHIC; LICHENOGRAPHICAL
Li"chen*o*graph"ic, Li`chen*o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
lichénographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to lichenography.

LICHENOGRAPHIST
Li`chen*og"ra*phist, n.

Defn: One who describes lichens; one versed in lichenography.

LICHENOGRAPHY
Li`chen*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Lichen + -graphy: cf. F.
lichénographie.]

Defn: A description of lichens; the science which illustrates the
natural history of lichens.

LICHENOLOGIST
Li`chen*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in lichenology.

LICHENOLOGY
Li`chen*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Lichen + -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of lichens.

LICHENOUS
Li"chen*ous, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, lichens; abounding in
lichens; covered with lichens. G. Eliot.

LICHI
Li"chi`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Litchi.

LICHWALE
Lich"wale`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The gromwell.

LICHWORT
Lich"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An herb, the wall pellitory. See Pellitory.

LICIT
Lic"it, a. Etym: [L.licitus permitted, lawful, from licere: cf. F.
licite. See License.]

Defn: Lawful. "Licit establishments." Carlyle.
 -- Lic"it*ly, adv.
 -- Lic"it*ness, n.

LICITATION
Lic`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. licitatio, fr. licitari, liceri, to bid,
offer a price.]

Defn: The act of offering for sale to the highest bidder. [R.]

LICK
Lick, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Licked; p. pr. & vb. n. Licking.] Etym:
[AS. liccian; akin to OS. likk, D. likken, OHG. lecch, G. lecken,
Goth. bi-laig, Russ. lizate, L. lingere, Gr. lih, rih. . Cf. Lecher,
Relish.]

1. To draw or pass the tongue over; as, a dog licks his master's
hand. Addison.

2. To lap; to take in with the tongue; as, a dog or cat licks milk.
Shak. To lick the dust, to be slain; to fall in battle. "His enemies
shall lick the dust." Ps. lxxii. 9.
 -- To lick into shape, to give proper form to; -- from a notion that
the bear's cubs are born shapeless and subsequently formed by
licking. Hudibras.
 -- To lick the spittle of, to fawn upon. South.
 -- To lick up, to take all of by licking; to devour; to consume
entirely. Shak. Num. xxii. 4.

LICK
Lick, n. Etym: [See Lick, v.]

1. A stroke of the tongue in licking. "A lick at the honey pot."
Dryden.

2. A quick and careless application of anything, as if by a stroke of
the tongue, or of something which acts like a tongue; as, to put on
colors with a lick of the brush. Also, a small quantity of any
substance so applied. [Colloq.]
A lick of court white wash. Gray.

3. A place where salt is found on the surface of the earth, to which
wild animals resort to lick it up; -- often, but not always, near
salt springs. [U. S.]

LICK
Lick, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OSw. lägga to place, strike, prick.]

Defn: To strike with repeated blows for punishment; to flog; to whip
or conquer, as in a pugilistic encounter. [Colloq. or Low] Carlyle.
Thackeray.

LICK
Lick, n.

Defn: A slap; a quick stroke.[Colloq.] "A lick across the face."
Dryden.

LICKER
Lick"er, n. Etym: [Cf. Lecher.]

Defn: One who, or that which, licks. Licker in (Carding Machine), the
drum, or cylinder, by which the lap is taken from the feed rollers.

LICKERISH
Lick"er*ish, a. Etym: [Cf. Lecherous.]

1. Eager; craving; urged by desire; eager to taste or enjoy; greedy.
"The lickerish palate of the glutton." Bp. Hall.

2. Tempting the appetite; dainty. "Lickerish baits, fit to insnare a
brute." Milton.

3. lecherous; lustful. Robert of Brunne.
 -- Lick"er*ish*ly, adv.
 -- Lick"er*ish*ness, n.

LICKEROUS
Lick"er*ous, a.

Defn: Lickerish; eager; lustful. [Obs.] -- Lick"er*ous*ness, n.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

LICKING
Lick"ing, n.

1. A lapping with the tongue.

2. A flogging or castigation. [Colloq. or Low]

LICKPENNY
Lick"pen`ny, n.

Defn: A devourer or absorber of money. "Law is a lickpenny." Sir W.
Scott.

LICK-SPIGOT
Lick"-spig`ot, n.

Defn: A tapster. [Obs.]

LICK-SPITTLE
Lick"-spit`tle, n.

Defn: An abject flatterer or parasite. Theodore Hook.

LICORICE
Lic"o*rice, n. Etym: [OE. licoris, though old French, fr. L.
liquiritia, corrupted fr. glycyrrhiza, Gr. Glycerin, Glycyrrhiza,
Wort.] [Written also liquorice.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Glycyrrhiza (G. glabra), the root of which
abounds with a juice, and is much used in demulcent compositions.

2. The inspissated juice of licorice root, used as a confection and
medicinal purposes. Licorice fern (Bot.), a name of several kinds of
polypody which have rootstocks of a sweetish flavor.
 -- Licorice sugar. (Chem.) See Glycyrrhizin.
 -- Licorice weed (Bot.), the tropical plant Scapania aulcis.
 -- Mountain licorice (Bot.), a kind of clover (Trifolium alpinum),
found in the Alps. It has large purplish flowers and a sweetish
perennial rootstock.
 -- Wild licorice. (Bot.) (a) The North American perennial herb
Glycyrrhiza lepidota. (b) Certain broad-leaved cleavers (Galium
circæzans and G. lanceolatum). (c) The leguminous climber Abrus
precatorius, whose scarlet and black seeds are called black-eyed
Susans. Its roots are used as a substitute for those of true licorice
(Glycyrrhiza glabra).

LICOROUS
Lic"o*rous, a.

Defn: See Lickerish.
 -- Lic"o*rous*ness, n. [Obs.] Herbert.

LICOUR
Lic"our, n.

Defn: Liquor. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LICTOR
Lic"tor, n. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: An officer who bore an ax and fasces or rods, as ensigns of his
office. His duty was to attend the chief magistrates when they
appeared in public, to clear the way, and cause due respect to be
paid to them, also to apprehend and punish criminals.
Lictors and rods, the ensigns of their power. Milton.

LID
Lid, n. Etym: [AS. hlid, fr. hlidan (in comp.) to cover, shut; akin
to OS. hlidan (in comp.), D. lid, OHG. hlit, G. augenlid eyelid,
Icel. hli gate, gateway.

1. That which covers the opening of a vessel or box, etc. ; a movable
cover; as, the lid of a chest or trunk.

2. The cover of the eye; an eyelid. Shak.
Tears, big tears, gushed from the rough soldier's lid. Byron.

3. (Bot.)
(a) The cover of the spore cases of mosses.
(b) A calyx which separates from the flower, and falls off in a
single piece, as in the Australian Eucalypti.
(c) The top of an ovary which opens transversely, as in the fruit of
the purslane and the tree which yields Brazil nuts.

LIDDED
Lid"ded, a.

Defn: Covered with a lid. Keats.

LIDGE
Lidge, n.

Defn: Same Ledge.[Obs.] Spenser.

LIDLESS
Lid"less, a.

Defn: Having no lid, or not covered with the lids, as the eyes;
hence, sleepless; watchful.
A lidless watcher of the public weal. Tennyson.

LIE
Lie, n.

Defn: See Lye.

LIE
Lie, n. Etym: [AS. lyge; akin to D. leugen, OHG. lugi, G. lüge, lug,
Icel. lygi, Dan. & Sw. lögn, Goth. liugn. See Lie to utter a
falsehood.]

1. A falsehood uttered or acted for the purpose of deception; an
intentional violation of truth; an untruth spoken with the intention
to deceive.
It is willful deceit that makes a lie. A man may act a lie, as by
pointing his finger in a wrong direction when a traveler inquires of
him his road. Paley.

2. A fiction; a fable; an untruth. Dryden.

3. Anything which misleads or disappoints.
Wishing this lie of life was o'er. Trench.
To give the lie to. (a) To charge with falsehood; as, the man gave
him the lie. (b) To reveal to be false; as, a man's actions may give
the lie to his words.
 -- White lie, a euphemism for such lies as one finds it convenient
to tell, and excuses himself for telling.

Syn.
 -- Untruth; falsehood; fiction; deception.
 -- lie, Untruth. A man may state what is untrue from ignorance or
misconception; hence, to impute an untruth to one is not necessarily
the same as charging him with a lie. Every lie is an untruth, but not
every untruth is a lie. Cf. Falsity.

LIE
Lie, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lied; p. pr. & vb. n. Lying.] Etym: [OE.
lien, li, le, leo, AS. leógan; akin to D. liegen, OS. & OHG. liogan,
G. lügen, Icel. lj, Sw. ljuga, Dan.lyve, Goth. liugan, Russ. lgate.]

Defn: To utter falsehood with an intention to deceive; to say or do
that which is intended to deceive another, when he a right to know
the truth, or when morality requires a just representation.

LIE
Lie, v. i. [imp. Lay; p. p. Lain, (Lien (, [Obs.]); p. pr. & vb. n.
Lying.] Etym: [OE. lien, liggen, AS. licgan; akin to D. liggen, OHG.
ligen, licken, G. liegen, Icel. liggja, Sw. ligga, Dan. ligge, Goth.
ligan, Russ. lejate, L. lectus bed, Gr. Lair, Law, Lay, v. t.,
Litter, Low, adj.]

1. To rest extended on the ground, a bed, or any support; to be, or
to put one's self, in an horizontal position, or nearly so; to be
prostate; to be stretched out; -- often with down, when predicated of
living creatures; as, the book lies on the table; the snow lies on
the roof; he lies in his coffin.
The watchful traveler . . . Lay down again, and closed his weary
eyes. Dryden.

2. To be situated; to occupy a certain place; as, Ireland lies west
of England; the meadows lie along the river; the ship lay in port.

3. To abide; to remain for a longer or shorter time; to be in a
certain state or condition; as, to lie waste; to lie fallow; to lie
open; to lie hid; to lie grieving; to lie under one's displeasure; to
lie at the mercy of the waves; the paper does not lie smooth on the
wall.

4. To be or exist; to belong or pertain; to have an abiding place; to
consist; -- with in.
Envy lies between beings equal in nature, though unequal in
circumstances. Collier.
He that thinks that diversion may not lie in hard labor, forgets the
early rising and hard riding of huntsmen. Locke.

5. To lodge; to sleep.
Whiles I was now trifling at home, I saw London, . . . where I lay
one night only. Evelyn.
Mr. Quinion lay at our house that night. Dickens.

6. To be still or quiet, like one lying down to rest.
The wind is loud and will not lie. Shak.

7. (Law)

Defn: To be sustainable; to be capable of being maintained. "An
appeal lies in this case." Parsons.

Note: Through ignorance or carelessness speakers and writers often
confuse the forms of the two distinct verbs lay and lie. Lay is a
transitive verb, and has for its preterit laid; as, he told me to lay
it down, and I laid it down. Lie is intransitive, and has for its
preterit lay; as, he told me to lie down, and I lay down. Some
persons blunder by using laid for the preterit of lie; as, he told me
to lie down, and I laid down. So persons often say incorrectly, the
ship laid at anchor; they laid by during the storm; the book was
laying on the shelf, etc. It is only necessary to remember, in all
such cases, that laid is the preterit of lay, and not of lie. To lie
along the shore (Naut.), to coast, keeping land in sight.
 -- To lie at the door of, to be imputable to; as, the sin, blame,
etc., lies at your door.
 -- To lie at the heart, to be an object of affection, desire, or
anxiety. Sir W. Temple.
 -- To lie at the mercy of, to be in the power of.
 -- To lie by. (a) To remain with; to be at hand; as, he has the
manuscript lying by him. (b) To rest; to intermit labor; as, we lay
by during the heat of the day.
 -- To lie hard or heavy, to press or weigh; to bear hard.
 -- To lie in, to be in childbed; to bring forth young.
 -- To lie in one, to be in the power of; to belong to. "As much as
lieth in you, live peaceably with all men." Rom. xii. 18.
 -- To lie in the way, to be an obstacle or impediment.
 -- To lie in wait , to wait in concealment; to lie in ambush.
 -- To lie on or upon. (a) To depend on; as, his life lies on the
result. (b) To bear, rest, press, or weigh on.
 -- To lie low, to remain in concealment or inactive. [Slang] -- To
lie on hand, To lie on one's hands, to remain unsold or unused; as,
the goods are still lying on his hands; they have too much time lying
on their hands.
 -- To lie on the head of, to be imputed to.
What he gets more of her than sharp words, let it lie on my head.
Shak.
-- To lie over. (a) To remain unpaid after the time when payment is
due, as a note in bank. (b) To be deferred to some future occasion,
as a resolution in a public deliberative body.
 -- To lie to (Naut.), to stop or delay; especially, to head as near
the wind as possible as being the position of greatest safety in a
gale; -- said of a ship. Cf. To bring to, under Bring.
 -- To lie under, to be subject to; to suffer; to be oppressed by.
 -- To lie with. (a) To lodge or sleep with. (b) To have sexual
intercourse with. (c) To belong to; as, it lies with you to make
amends.

LIE
Lie, n.

Defn: The position or way in which anything lies; the lay, as of land
or country. J. H. Newman.
He surveyed with his own eyes . . . the lie of the country on the
side towards Thrace. Jowett (Thucyd.).

LIEBERKUHN; LIEBERKUEHN
Lie"ber*kühn, n. Etym: [Named after a German physician and instrument
maker, J. n. Lieberkühn.] (Optics)

Defn: A concave metallic mirror attached to the object-glass end of a
microscope, to throw down light on opaque objects; a reflector.

LIEBERKUHN'S GLANDS; LIEBERKUEHN'S GLANDS
Lie"ber*kühn's glands`. Etym: [See Lieberkühn.] (Anat.)

Defn: The simple tubular glands of the small intestines; -- called
also crypts of Lieberkühn.

LIED
Lied, n. ; pl. Lieder. Etym: [G.] (Mus.)

Defn: A lay; a German song. It differs from the French chanson, and
the Italian canzone, all three being national.
The German Lied is perhaps the most faithful reflection of the
national sentiment. Grove.

LIEDERKRANZ
Lie"der*kranz, n. [G. See Lied, and Grants.] (Mus.)

Defn: Lit., wreath of songs; -- used as the title of a group of
songs, and esp. as the common name for German vocal clubs of men.

LIEDERTAFEL
Lie"der*ta`fel, n. Etym: [G., lit., a song table.] (Mus.)

Defn: A popular name for any society or club which meets for the
practice of male part songs.

LIEF
Lief, n.

Defn: Same as Lif.

LIEF
Lief, a. [Written also lieve.] Etym: [OE. leef, lef, leof, AS. leóf;
akin to OS.liof, OFries. liaf, D. lief, G. lieb, OHG. liob, Icel. lj,
Sw.ljuf, Goth. liubs, and E. love. sq. root124. See Love, and cf.
Believe, Leave, n., Furlough, Libidinous.]

1. Dear; beloved. [Obs., except in poetry.] "My liefe mother."
Chaucer. "My liefest liege." Shak.
As thou art lief and dear. Tennyson.

2.

Note: (Used with a form of the verb to be, and the dative of the
personal pronoun.)

Defn: Pleasing; agreeable; acceptable; preferable. [Obs.] See Lief,
adv., and Had as lief, under Had.
Full lief me were this counsel for to hide. Chaucer.
Death me liefer were than such despite. Spenser.

3. Willing; disposed. [Obs.]
I am not lief to gab. Chaucer.
He up arose, however lief or loth. Spenser.

LIEF
Lief, n.

Defn: A dear one; a sweetheart. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LIEF
Lief, adv.

Defn: Gladly; willingly; freely; -- now used only in the phrases, had
as lief, and would as lief; as, I had, or would, as lief go as not.
All women liefest would Be sovereign of man's love. Gower.
I had as lief the town crier spoke my lines. Shak.
Far liefer by his dear hand had I die. Tennyson.

Note: The comparative liefer with had or would, and followed by the
infinitive, either with or without the sign to, signifies prefer,
choose as preferable, would or had rather. In the 16th century rather
was substituted for liefer in such constructions in literary English,
and has continued to be generally so used. See Had as lief, Had
rather, etc. , under Had.

LIEFSOME
Lief"some, a.

Defn: Pleasing; delightful. [Obs.]

LIEGANCE
Lieg"ance, n.

Defn: Same as Ligeance.

LIEGE
Liege, a. Etym: [OE. lige, lege, F. lige, LL. ligius, legius, liege,
unlimited, complete, prob. of German origin; cf. G. ledig free from
bonds and obstacles, MHG. ledec, ledic, lidic, freed, loosed, and
Charta Ottonis de Benthem, ann. ligius homo quod Teutonicè dicitur
ledigman," i. e., uni soli homagio obligatus, free from all
obligations to others; influenced by L.ligare to bind. G. ledig perh.
orig. meant, free to go where one pleases, and is perh. akin to
E.lead to conduct. Cf. Lead to guide.]

1. Sovereign; independent; having authority or right to allegiance;
as, a liege lord. Chaucer.
She looked as grand as doomsday and as grave; And he, he reverenced
his liege lady there. Tennyson.

2. serving an independent sovereign or master; bound by a feudal
tenure; obliged to be faithful and loyal to a superior, as a vassal
to his lord; faithful; loyal; as, a liege man; a liege subject.

3. (Old Law)

Defn: Full; perfect; complete; pure. Burrill. Liege homage (Feudal
Custom), that homage of one sovereign or prince to another which
acknowledged an obligation of fealty and services.
 -- Liege poustie Etym: [L. legitima potestas] (Scots Law), perfect,
i. e., legal, power; specif., having health requisite to do legal
acts.
 -- Liege widowhood, perfect, i. e., pure, widowhood. [Obs.]

LIEGE
Liege, n.

1. A free and independent person; specif., a lord paramount; a
sovereign. Mrs. Browning.
The anointed sovereign of sighs and groans, Liege of all loiterers
and malcontents. Shak.

2. The subject of a sovereign or lord; a liegeman.
A liege lord seems to have been a lord of a free band; and his
lieges, though serving under him, were privileged men, free from all
other obligations, their name being due to their freedom, not to
their service. Skeat.

LIEGEMAN
Liege"man, n.; pl. Liegemen (.

Defn: Same as Liege, n., 2. Chaucer. Spenser.

LIEGER
Lie"ger, n. Etym: [See Leger, Ledger.]

Defn: A resident ambassador. [Obs.] See Leger. Denham.

LIEGIANCY
Lie"gian*cy, n.

Defn: See Ligeance.

LIEN
Li"en, obs. p. p.

Defn: of Lie. See lain. Ps. lxviii. 13.

LIEN
Lien, n. Etym: [F. lien band, bond, tie, fr. L. ligamen, fr. ligare
to bind. Cf. League a union, Leam a string, Leamer, Ligament.] (Law)

Defn: A legal claim; a charge upon real or personal property for the
satisfaction of some debt or duty; a right in one to control or hold
and retain the property of another until some claim of the former is
paid or satisfied.

LIENAL
Li*e"nal, a. Etym: [L. lien the spleen.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the spleen; splenic.

LIENCULUS
Li*en"cu*lus, n.; pl. Lienculi. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. lien the
spleen.] (Anat.)

Defn: One of the small nodules sometimes found in the neighborhood of
the spleen; an accessory or supplementary spleen.

LIENO-INTESTINAL
Li*e`no-in*tes"ti*nal, a. Etym: [l. lien the spleen + E. intestinal.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the spleen and intestine; as, the lieno-
intestinal vein of the frog.

LIENTERIC
Li`en*ter"ic, a. Etym: [L. lientericus, Gr. lientérique. See
Lientery.] (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, a lientery.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: A lientery. Grew.

LIENTERY
Li"en*ter*y, n. Etym: [Gr. lientérie.] (Med.)

Defn: A diarrhea, in which the food is discharged imperfectly
digested, or with but little change. Dunglison.

LIER
Li"er, n. Etym: [From Lie. ]

Defn: One who lies down; one who rests or remains, as in concealment.
There were liers in a ambush against him. Josh. viii. 14.

LIERNE RIB
Lierne" rib`. Etym: [F. lierne.] (Arch.)

Defn: In Gothic vaulting, any rib which does not spring from the
impost and is not a ridge rib, but passes from one boss or
intersection of the principal ribs to another.

LIEU
Lieu, n. Etym: [F., OF. also liu, leu, lou, fr. L. locus place. See
Local, Locus.]

Defn: Place; room; stead; -- used only in the phrase in lieu of, that
is, instead of.
The plan of extortion had been adopted in lieu of the scheme of
confiscation. Burke.

LIEUTENANCY
Lieu*ten"an*cy, n.

1. The office, rank, or commission, of a lieutenant.

2. The body of lieutenants or subordinates. [Obs.]
The list of the lieutenancy of our metropolis. Felton.

LIEUTENANT
Lieu*ten"ant, n. Etym: [F., fr. lieu place + tenant holding, p. pr.
of tenir to hold, L. tenere. See Lieu, and Tenant, and cf. Locum
tenens.]

1. An officer who supplies the place of a superior in his absence; a
representative of, or substitute for, another in the performance of
any duty.
The lawful magistrate, who is the vicegerent or lieutenant of God.
Abp. Bramhall.

2.
(a) A commissioned officer in the army, next below a captain.
(b) A commissioned officer in the British navy, in rank next below a
commander.
(c) A commissioned officer in the United States navy, in rank next
below a lieutenant commander.

Note: Lieutenant is often used, either adjectively or in hyphened
compounds, to denote an officer, in rank next below another,
especially when the duties of the higher officer may devolve upon the
lower one; as, lieutenant general, or lieutenant-general; lieutenant
colonel, or lieutenant-colonel; lieutenant governor, etc. Deputy
lieutenant, the title of any one of the deputies or assistants of the
lord lieutenant of a county. [Eng.] -- Lieutenant colonel, an army
officer next in rank above major, and below colonel.
 -- Lieutenant commander, an officer in the United States navy, in
rank next below a commander and next above a lieutenant.
 -- Lieutenant general. See in Vocabulary.
 -- Lieutenant governor. (a) An officer of a State, being next in
rank to the governor, and in case of the death or resignation of the
latter, himself acting as governor. [U. S.] (b) A deputy governor
acting as the chief civil officer of one of several colonies under a
governor general. [Eng.]

LIEUTENANT GENERAL
Lieu*ten"ant gen"er*al

Defn: . An army officer in rank next below a general and next above a
major general.

Note: In the United States, before the civil war, this rank had been
conferred only on George Washington and (in brevet) on Winfield
Scott. In 1864 it was revived by Congress and conferred on Ulysses S.
Grant, and subsequently, by promotion, on William T. Sherman and
Philip H. Sheridan, each of whom was advanced to the rank of general
of the army. When Sheridan was made general (in 1888) the rank of
lieutenant general was suffered to lapse. See General.

LIEUTENANTRY
Lieu*ten"ant*ry, n.

Defn: See Lieutenancy. [Obs.]

LIEUTENANTSHIP
Lieu*ten"ant*ship, n.

Defn: Same as Lieutenancy, 1.

LIEVE
Lieve, a.

Defn: Same as Lief.

LIF
Lif, n. Etym: [Written also lief.]

Defn: The fiber by which the petioles of the date palm are bound
together, from which various kinds of cordage are made.

LIFE
Life, n.; pl. Lives. Etym: [AS. l; akin to D. lijf body, G. leib
body, MHG. l life, body, OHG. l life, Icel. l, life, body, Sw. lif,
Dan. liv, and E. live, v. Live, and cf. Alive.]

1. The state of being which begins with generation, birth, or
germination, and ends with death; also, the time during which this
state continues; that state of an animal or plant in which all or any
of its organs are capable of performing all or any of their
functions; -- used of all animal and vegetable organisms.

2. Of human being: The union of the soul and body; also, the duration
of their union; sometimes, the deathless quality or existence of the
soul; as, man is a creature having an immortal life.
She shows a body rather than a life. Shak.

3. (Philos)

Defn: The potential principle, or force, by which the organs of
animals and plants are started and continued in the performance of
their several and coöperative functions; the vital force, whether
regarded as physical or spiritual.

4. Figuratively: The potential or animating principle, also, the
period of duration, of anything that is conceived of as resembling a
natural organism in structure or functions; as, the life of a state,
a machine, or a book; authority is the life of government.

5. A certain way or manner of living with respect to conditions,
circumstances, character, conduct, occupation, etc.; hence, human
affairs; also, lives, considered collectively, as a distinct class or
type; as, low life; a good or evil life; the life of Indians, or of
miners.
That which before us lies in daily life. Milton.
By experience of life abroad in the world. Ascham.
Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime.
Longfellow.
'T is from high life high characters are drawn. Pope

6. Animation; spirit; vivacity; vigor; energy.
No notion of life and fire in fancy and in words. Felton.
That gives thy gestures grace and life. Wordsworth.

7. That which imparts or excites spirit or vigor; that upon which
enjoyment or success depends; as, he was the life of the company, or
of the enterprise.

8. The living or actual form, person, thing, or state; as, a picture
or a description from, the life.

9. A person; a living being, usually a human being; as, many lives
were sacrificed.

10. The system of animal nature; animals in general, or considered
collectively.
Full nature swarms with life. Thomson.

11. An essential constituent of life, esp: the blood.
The words that I speak unto you . . . they are life. John vi. 63.
The warm life came issuing through the wound. Pope

12. A history of the acts and events of a life; a biography; as,
Johnson wrote the life of Milton.

13. Enjoyment in the right use of the powers; especially, a spiritual
existence; happiness in the favor of God; heavenly felicity.

14. Something dear to one as one's existence; a darling; -- used as a
term of endearment.

Note: Life forms the first part of many compounds, for the most part
of obvious meaning; as, life-giving, life-sustaining, etc. Life
annuity, an annuity payable during one's life.
 -- Life arrow, Life rocket, Life shot, an arrow, rocket, or shot,
for carrying an attached line to a vessel in distress in order to
save life.
 -- Life assurance. See Life insurance, below.
 -- Life buoy. See Buoy.
 -- Life car, a water-tight boat or box, traveling on a line from a
wrecked vessel to the shore. In it person are hauled through the
waves and surf.
 -- Life drop, a drop of vital blood. Byron.
 -- Life estate (Law), an estate which is held during the term of
some certain person's life, but does not pass by inheritance.
 -- Life everlasting (Bot.), a plant with white or yellow persistent
scales about the heads of the flowers, as Antennaria, and Gnaphalium;
cudweed.
 -- Life of an execution (Law), the period when an execution is in
force, or before it expires.
 -- Life guard. (Mil.) See under Guard.
 -- Life insurance, the act or system of insuring against death; a
contract by which the insurer undertakes, in consideration of the
payment of a premium (usually at stated periods), to pay a stipulated
sum in the event of the death of the insured or of a third person in
whose life the insured has an interest.
 -- Life interest, an estate or interest which lasts during one's
life, or the life of another person, but does not pass by
inheritance.
 -- Life land (Law), land held by lease for the term of a life or
lives.
 -- Life line. (a) (Naut.) A line along any part of a vessel for the
security of sailors. (b) A line attached to a life boat, or to any
life saving apparatus, to be grasped by a person in the water.
 -- Life rate, rate of premium for insuring a life.
 -- Life rent, the rent of a life estate; rent or property to which
one is entitled during one's life.
 -- Life school, a school for artists in which they model, paint, or
draw from living models.
 -- Lifetable, a table showing the probability of life at different
ages.
 -- To lose one's life, to die.
 -- To seek the life of, to seek to kill.
 -- To the life, so as closely to resemble the living person or the
subject; as, the portrait was drawn to the life.

LIFEBLOOD
Life"blood`, n.

1. The blood necessary to life; vital blood. Dryden.

2. Fig.: That which gives strength and energy.
Money [is] the lifeblood of the nation. Swift.

LIFEBOAT
Life"boat`, n.

Defn: A strong, buoyant boat especially designed for saving the lives
of shipwrecked people.

LIFEFUL
Life"ful, a.

Defn: Full of vitality. Spenser.

LIFE-GIVING
Life"-giv`ing, a.

Defn: Giving life or spirit; having power to give life; inspiriting;
invigorating.

LIFEHOLD
Life"hold`, n.

Defn: Land held by a life estate.

LIFELESS
Life"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of life, or deprived of life; not containing, or
inhabited by, living beings or vegetation; dead, or apparently dead;
spiritless; powerless; dull; as, a lifeless carcass; lifeless matter;
a lifeless desert; a lifeless wine; a lifeless story.
 -- Life"less*ly, adv.
 -- Life"less*ness, n.

Syn.
 -- Dead; soulless; inanimate; torpid; inert; inactive; dull; heavy;
unanimated; spiritless; frigid; pointless; vapid; flat; tasteless.
 -- Lifeless, Dull, Inanimate, Dead. In a moral sense, lifeless
denotes a want of vital energy; inanimate, a want of expression as to
any feeling that may be possessed; dull implies a torpor of soul
which checks all mental activity; dead supposes a destitution of
feeling. A person is said to be lifeless who has lost the spirits
which he once had; he is said to be inanimate when he is naturally
wanting in spirits; one is dull from an original deficiency of mental
power; he who is dead to moral sentiment is wholly bereft of the
highest attribute of his nature.

LIFELIKE
Life"like`, a. Etym: [Cf. Lively.]

Defn: Like a living being; resembling life; giving an accurate
representation; as, a lifelike portrait.
 -- Life"like`ness, n. Poe.

LIFELONG
Life"long, a. Etym: [Life + long. Cf. Livelong.]

Defn: Lasting or continuing through life. Tennyson.

LIFELY
Life"ly, adv. Etym: [Cf. Lively, a.]

Defn: In a lifelike manner. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LIFEMATE
Life"mate`, n.

Defn: Companion for life. Hawthorne.

LIFEN
Lif"en, v. t.

Defn: To enliven. [Obs.] Marston.

LIFE-PRESERVER
Life"-pre*serv`er, n.

Defn: An apparatus, made in very various forms, and of various
materials, for saving one from drowning by buoying up the body while
in the water.
 -- Life"-pre*serv`ing, a.

LIFE-SAVING
Life"-sav`ing, a.

Defn: That saves life, or is suited to save life, esp. from drowning;
as, the life-saving service; a life-saving station.

LIFE-SIZE
Life"-size`, a.

Defn: Of full size; of the natural size.

LIFESOME
Life"some, a.

Defn: Animated; sprightly. [Poetic] Coleridge.
 -- Life"some*ness, n.

LIFESPRING
Life"spring`, n.

Defn: Spring or source of life.

LIFESTRING
Life"string", n.

Defn: A nerve, or string, that is imagined to be essential to life.
Daniel.

LIFETIME
Life"time` (, n.

Defn: The time that life continues.

LIFE-WEARY
Life"-wea`ry, a.

Defn: Weary of living. Shak.

LIFLODE
Lif"lode, n.

Defn: Livelihood. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LIFT
Lift, n.Etym: [AS.lyft air. See Loft.]

Defn: The sky; the atmosphere; the firmament. [Obs. or Scot.]

LIFT
Lift, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lifted; p. pr. & vb. n. Lifting.] Etym:
[Icel. lypta, fr. lopt air; akin to Sw.lyfta to lift, Dan. löfte, G.
lüften; -- prop., to raise into the air. See Loft, and cf. 1st Lift.]

1. To move in a direction opposite to that of gravitation; to raise;
to elevate; to bring up from a lower place to a higher; to upheave;
sometimes implying a continued support or holding in the higher
place; -- said of material things; as, to lift the foot or the hand;
to lift a chair or a burden.

2. To raise, elevate, exalt, improve, in rank, condition, estimation,
character, etc.; -- often with up.
The Roman virtues lift up mortal man. Addison.
Lest, being lifted up with pride. I Tim. iii. 6.

3. To bear; to support. [Obs.] Spenser.

4. To collect, as moneys due; to raise.

5. Etym: [Perh. a different word, and akin to Goth. hliftus thief,
hlifan to steal, L. clepere, Gr. Shoplifter.]

Defn: To steal; to carry off by theft (esp. cattle); as, to lift a
drove of cattle.

Note: In old writers, lift is sometimes used for lifted.
He ne'er lift up his hand but conquered. Shak.
To lift up, to raise or elevate; in the Scriptures, specifically, to
elevate upon the cross. John viii. 28.
 -- To lift up the eyes. To look up; to raise the eyes, as in prayer.
Ps. cxxi. 1.
 -- To lift up the feet, to come speedily to one's relief. Ps. lxxiv.
3.
 -- To lift up the hand. (a) To take an oath. Gen. xiv. 22. (b) To
pray. Ps. xxviii. 2. (c) To engage in duty. Heb. xii. 12.
 -- To lift up the hand against, to rebel against; to assault; to
attack; to injure; to oppress. Job xxxi. 21.
 -- To lift up one's head, to cause one to be exalted or to rejoice.
Gen. xl. 13. Luke xxi. 28.
 -- To lift up the heel against, to treat with insolence or
unkindness. John xiii.18.
 -- To lift up the voice, to cry aloud; to call out. Gen. xxi. 16.

LIFT
Lift, v. i.

1. To try to raise something; to exert the strength for raising or
bearing.
Strained by lifting at a weight too heavy. Locke.

2. To rise; to become or appear raised or elevated; as, the fog
lifts; the land lifts to a ship approaching it.

3. Etym: [See Lift, v. t., 5.]

Defn: To live by theft. Spenser.

LIFT
Lift, n.

1. Act of lifting; also, that which is lifted.

2. The space or distance through which anything is lifted; as, a long
lift. Bacon.

3. Help; assistance, as by lifting; as, to give one a lift in a
wagon. [Colloq.]
The goat gives the fox a lift. L'Estrange.

4. That by means of which a person or thing lifts or is lifted; as:
(a) A hoisting machine; an elevator; a dumb waiter.
(b) An exercising machine.

5. A rise; a degree of elevation; as, the lift of a lock in canals.

6. A lift gate. See Lift gate, below. [Prov. Eng.]

7. (Naut.)

Defn: A rope leading from the masthead to the extremity of a yard
below; -- used for raising or supporting the end of the yard.

8. (Mach.)

Defn: One of the steps of a cone pulley.

9. (Shoemaking)

Defn: A layer of leather in the heel.

10. (Horology)

Defn: That portion of the vibration of a balance during which the
impulse is given. Saunier. Dead lift. See under Dead. Swift.
 -- Lift bridge, a kind of drawbridge, the movable part of which is
lifted, instead of being drawn aside.
 -- Lift gate, a gate that is opened by lifting.
 -- Lift hammer. See Tilt hammer.
 -- Lift lock, a canal lock.
 -- Lift pump, a lifting pump.
 -- Lift tenter (Windmills), a governor for regulating the speed by
adjusting the sails, or for adjusting the action of grinding
machinery according to the speed.
 -- Lift wall (Canal Lock), the cross wall at the head of the lock.

LIFTABLE
Lift"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be lifted.

LIFTER
Lift"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, lifts.

2. (Founding)

Defn: A tool for lifting loose sand from the mold; also, a
contrivance attached to a cope, to hold the sand together when the
cope is lifted.

LIFTING
Lift"ing, a.

Defn: Used in, or for, or by, lifting. Lifting bridge, a lift bridge.
 -- Lifting jack. See 2d Jack, 5.
 -- Lifting machine. See Health lift, under Health.
 -- Lifting pump. (Mach.) (a) A kind of pump having a bucket, or
valved piston, instead of a solid piston, for drawing water and
lifting it to a high level. (b) A pump which lifts the water only to
the top of the pump, or delivers it through a spout; a lift pump.
 -- Lifting rod, a vertical rod lifted by a rock shaft, and imparting
motion to a puppet valve; -- used in the engines of river steamboats.
 -- Lifting sail (Naut.), one which tends to lift a vessel's bow out
of water, as jibs and square foresails.

LIG
Lig, v. i. Etym: [See Lie to be prostrate.]

Defn: To recline; to lie still. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer. Spenser.

LIGAMENT
Lig"a*ment, n. Etym: [L. ligamentum, fr. ligare to bind; cf. f.
ligament. Cf. Lien, n., Ligature.]

1. Anything that ties or unites one thing or part to another; a
bandage; a bond. Hawthorne.
Interwoven is the love of liberty with every ligament of your hearts.
Washington.

2. (Anat.)
(a) A tough band or plate of dense, fibrous, connective tissue or
fibrocartilage serving to unite bones or form joints.
(b) A band of connective tissue, or a membranous fold, which supports
or retains an organ in place; as, the gastrophrenic ligament,
connecting the diaphragm and stomach.

LIGAMENTAL; LIGAMENTOUS
Lig`a*men"tal, Lig"a*men"tous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ligamenteux.]

Defn: Composing a ligament; of the nature of a ligament; binding; as,
a strong ligamentous membrane.

LIGAN
Li"gan, n.Etym: [Cf. L. ligare to bind, to tie, ligamen band,
bandage, E. ligament, or ligsam.] (Law)

Defn: Goods sunk in the sea, with a buoy attached in order that they
may be found again. See Jetsam and Flotsam. [Written also lagan.]
Blackstone.

LIGATE
Li"gate, v. t. Etym: [L. ligatus, p. p. of ligare.]

Defn: To tie with a ligature; to bind around; to bandage.

LIGATION
Li*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. ligatio, fr. ligare to bind. Cf. Liaison.]

1. The act of binding, or the state of being bound.

2. That which binds; bond; connection.
Tied with tape, and sealed at each fold and ligation. Sir W. Scott.

LIGATOR
Li*ga"tor n. Etym: [See Ligate.] (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for ligating, or for placing and fastening a
ligature.

LIGATURE
Lig"a*ture, n. Etym: [L. ligatura, fr. ligare, ligatum, to bind: cf.
f. ligature. Cf. Ally, League, Legatura, Liable, Legament.]

1. The act of binding.

2. Anything that binds; a band or bandage.

3. (Surg.)
(a) A thread or string for tying the blood vessels, particularly the
arteries, to prevent hemorrhage.
(b) A thread or wire used to remove tumors, etc.

4. The state of being bound or stiffened; stiffness; as, the ligature
of a joint.

5. Impotence caused by magic or charms. [Obs.]

6. (Mus.)

Defn: A curve or line connecting notes; a slur.

7. (Print.)

Defn: A double character, or a type consisting of two or more letters
or characters united, as æ, fi, ffl.

LIGATURE
Lig"a*ture, v. t. (Surg.)

Defn: To ligate; to tie.

LIGE
Lig"e, v. t. & i.

Defn: To lie; to tell lies. [Obs.]

LIGEANCE
Li"geance, n. Etym: [OF. ligeance, ligance. See Liege.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: The connection between sovereign and subject by which they were
mutually bound, the former to protection and the securing of justice,
the latter to faithful service; allegiance. [Written also ligeancy
and liegance.] Chaucer.

LIGEMENT
Lige"ment, n.

Defn: See Ledgment

LIGGE
Lig"ge, v. i.

Defn: To lie or recline. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LIGGER
Lig"ger, n.

1. A baited line attached to a float, for night fishing. See Leger,
a.

2. See Ledger, 2.

LIGHT
Light, n. Etym: [OE.light, liht, AS. leót; akin to OS. lioht, D. & G.
licht, OHG. lioht, Goth. liuhap, Icel. lj, L. lux light, lucere to
shine, Gr. ruc to shine. Lucid, Lunar, Luminous, Lynx.]

1. That agent, force, or action in nature by the operation of which
upon the organs of sight, objects are rendered visible or luminous.

Note: Light was regarded formerly as consisting of material
particles, or corpuscules, sent off in all directions from luminous
bodies, and traversing space, in right lines, with the known velocity
of about 186,300 miles per second; but it is now generally understood
to consist, not in any actual transmission of particles or substance,
but in the propagation of vibrations or undulations in a subtile,
elastic medium, or ether, assumed to pervade all space, and to be
thus set in vibratory motion by the action of luminous bodies, as the
atmosphere is by sonorous bodies. This view of the nature of light is
known as the undulatory or wave theory; the other, advocated by
Newton (but long since abandoned), as the corpuscular, emission, or
Newtonian theory. A more recent theory makes light to consist in
electrical oscillations, and is known as the electro-magnetic theory
of light.

2. That which furnishes, or is a source of, light, as the sun, a
star, a candle, a lighthouse, etc.
Then he called for a light, and sprang in. Acts xvi. 29.
And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and
the lesser light to rule the night. Gen. i. 16.

3. The time during which the light of the sun is visible; day;
especially, the dawn of day.
The murderer, rising with the light, killeth the poor and needy. Job
xxiv. 14.

4. The brightness of the eye or eyes.
He seemed to find his way without his eyes; For out o'door he went
without their helps, And, to the last, bended their light on me.
Shak.

5. The medium through which light is admitted, as a window, or window
pane; a skylight; in architecture, one of the compartments of a
window made by a mullion or mullions.
There were windows in three rows, and light was against light in
three ranks. I Kings vii.4.

6. Life; existence.
O, spring to light, auspicious Babe, be born ! Pope.

7. Open view; a visible state or condition; public observation;
publicity.
The duke yet would have dark deeds darkly answered; he would never
bring them to light. Shak.

8. The power of perception by vision.
My strength faileth me; as for the light of my eyes, it also is gone
from me. Ps. xxxviii. 10.

9. That which illumines or makes clear to the mind; mental or
spiritual illumination; enlightenment; knowledge; information.
He shall never know That I had any light of this from thee. Shak.

10. Prosperity; happiness; joy; felicity.
Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thy health shall
spring forth speedily. Is. lviii. 8.

11. (Paint.)

Defn: The manner in which the light strikes upon a picture; that part
of a picture which represents those objects upon which the light is
supposed to fall; the more illuminated part of a landscape or other
scene; -- opposed to shade. Cf. Chiaroscuro.

12. Appearance due to the particular facts and circumstances
presented to view; point of view; as, to state things fairly and put
them in the right light.
Frequent consideration of a thing . . . shows it in its several
lights and various ways of appearance. South.

13. One who is conspicuous or noteworthy; a model or example; as, the
lights of the age or of antiquity.
Joan of Are, A light of ancient France. Tennyson.

14. (Pyrotech.)

Defn: A firework made by filling a case with a substance which burns
brilliantly with a white or colored flame; as, a Bengal light.

Note: Light is used figuratively to denote that which resembles
physical light in any respect, as illuminating, benefiting,
enlightening, or enlivening mankind. Ancient lights (Law), Calcium
light, Flash light, etc. See under Ancient, Calcium, etc.
 -- Light ball (Mil.), a ball of combustible materials, used to
afford light; -- sometimes made so as to fired from a cannon or
mortar, or to be carried up by a rocket.
 -- Light barrel (Mil.), an empty power barrel pierced with holes and
filled with shavings soaked in pitch, used to light up a ditch or a
breach. --Light dues (Com.), tolls levied on ships navigating certain
waters, for the maintenance of lighthouses.
 -- Light iron, a candlestick. [Obs.] -- Light keeper, a person
appointed to take care of a lighthouse or light-ship.
 -- Light money, charges laid by government on shipping entering a
port, for the maintenance of lighthouses and light-ships.
 -- The light of the countenance, favor; kindness; smiles.
Lord, lift thou up the light of thy countenance upon us. Ps. iv. 6.
-- Northern lights. See Aurora borealis, under Aurora.
 -- To bring to light, to cause to be disclosed.
 -- To come to light, to be disclosed.
 -- To see the light, to come into the light; hence, to come into the
world or public notice; as, his book never saw the light.
 -- To stand in one's own light, to take a position which is
injurious to one's own interest.

LIGHT
Light, a. Etym: [AS. leóht. See Light, n.] [Compar. Lighter; superl.
Lightest.]

1. Having light; not dark or obscure; bright; clear; as, the
apartment is light.

2. White or whitish; not intense or very marked; not of a deep shade;
moderately colored; as, a light color; a light brown; a light
complexion.

LIGHT
Light, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lighted or Lit (p. pr. & vb. n. Lighting.]
Etym: [AS. l, lihtan, to shine. Light, n.]

1. To set fire to; to cause to burn; to set burning; to ignite; to
kindle; as, to light a candle or lamp; to light the gas; -- sometimes
with up.
If a thousand candles be all lighted from one. Hakewill.
And the largest lamp is lit. Macaulay.
Absence might cure it, or a second mistress Light up another flame,
and put out this. Addison.

2. To give light to; to illuminate; to fill with light; to spread
over with light; -- often with up.
Ah, hopeless, lasting flames I like those that burn To light the
dead. Pope.
One hundred years ago, to have lit this theater as brilliantly as it
is now lighted would have cost, I suppose, fifty pounds. F. Harrison.
The sun has set, and Vesper, to supply His absent beams, has lighted
up the sky. Dryden.

3. To attend or conduct with a light; to show the way to by means of
a light.
His bishops lead him forth, and light him on. Landor.
To light a fire, to kindle the material of a fire.

LIGHT
Light, v. i.

1. To become ignited; to take fire; as, the match will not light.

2. To be illuminated; to receive light; to brighten; -- with up; as,
the room light up very well.

LIGHT
Light, a. [Compar. Lighted; superl. Lightest.] Etym: [OE. light,
liht, AS. liht, leóht; akin to D. ligt, G. leicht, OHG.lihti, Icel.
l, Dan. let, Sw. lätt, Goth. leihts, and perh. to L. levis (cf.
Levity), Gr. laghu light.

1. Having little, or comparatively little, weight; not tending to be
the center of gravity with force; not heavy.
These weights did not exert their natural gravity . . . insomuch that
I could not guess which was light or heavy whilst I held them in my
hand. Addison.

2. Not burdensome; easy to be lifted, borne, or carried by physical
strength; as, a light burden, or load.
Ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my
burden is light. Matt. xi. 29. 30.

3. Easy to be endured or performed; not severe; not difficult; as, a
light affliction or task. Chaucer.
Light sufferings give us leisure to complain. Dryden.

4. Easy to be digested; not oppressive to the stomach; as, light
food; also, containing little nutriment.

5. Not heavily armed; armed with light weapons; as, light troops; a
troop of light horse.

6. Not encumbered; unembarrassed; clear of impediments; hence,
active; nimble; swift.
Unmarried men are best friends, best masters . . . but not always
best subjects, for they are light to run away. Bacon.

7. Not heavily burdened; not deeply laden; not sufficiently
ballasted; as, the ship returned light.

8. Slight; not important; as, a light error. Shak.

9. Well leavened; not heavy; as, light bread.

10. Not copious or heavy; not dense; not inconsiderable; as, a light
rain; a light snow; light vapors.

11. Not strong or violent; moderate; as, a light wind.

12. Not pressing heavily or hard upon; hence, having an easy graceful
manner; delicate; as, a light touch; a light style of execution.

13. Easy to admit influence; inconsiderate; easily influenced by
trifling considerations; unsteady; unsettled; volatile; as, a light,
vain person; a light mind.
There is no greater argument of a light and inconsiderate person than
profanely to scoff at religion. Tillotson.

14. Indulging in, or inclined to, levity; wanting dignity or
solemnity; trifling; gay; frivolous; airy; unsubstantial.
Seneca can not be too heavy, nor Plautus too light. Shak.
Specimens of New England humor laboriously light and lamentably
mirthful. Hawthorne.

15. Not quite sound or normal; somewhat impaired or deranged; dizzy;
giddy.
Are his wits safe Is he not light of brain Shak.

16. Easily bestowed; inconsiderately rendered.
To a fair semblance doth light annex. Spenser.

17. Wanton; unchaste; as, a woman of light character.
A light wife doth make a heavy husband. Shak.

18. Not of the legal, standard, or usual weight; clipped; diminished;
as, light coin.

19. Loose; sandy; easily pulverized; as, a light soil. Light cavalry,
Light horse (Mil.), light-armed soldiers mounted on strong and active
horses.
 -- Light eater, one who eats but little.
 -- Light infantry, infantry soldiers selected and trained for rapid
evolutions.
 -- Light of foot. (a) Having a light step. (b) Fleet.
 -- Light of heart, gay, cheerful.
 -- Light oil (Chem.), the oily product, lighter than water, forming
the chief part of the first distillate of coal tar, and consisting
largely of benzene and toluene.
 -- Light sails (Naut.), all the sails above the topsails, with,
also, the studding sails and flying jib. Dana.
 -- Light sleeper, one easily wakened.
 -- Light weight, a prize fighter, boxer, wrestler, or jockey, who is
below a standard medium weight. Cf. Feather weight, under Feather.
[Cant] -- To make light of, to treat as of little consequence; to
slight; to disregard.
 -- To set light by, to undervalue; to slight; to treat as of no
importance; to despise.

LIGHT
Light, adv.

Defn: Lightly; cheaply. Hooker.

LIGHT
Light, v. t. Etym: [See Light not heavy, and cf. Light to alight, and
Lighten to make less heavy.]

Defn: To lighten; to ease of a burden; to take off. [Obs.]
From his head the heavy burgonet did light. Spenser.

LIGHT
Light, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lighted or Lit (p. pr. & vb. n. Lighting.]
Etym: [AS. lihtan to alight orig., to relieve (a horse) of the
rider's burden, to make less heavy, fr. liht light. See Light not
heavy, and cf. Alight, Lighten to make light.]

1. To dismount; to descend, as from a horse or carriage; to alight; -
- with from, off, on, upon, at, in.
When she saw Isaac, she lighted off the camel. Gen. xxiv. 64.
Slowly rode across a withered heath, And lighted at a ruined inn.
Tennyson.

2. To feel light; to be made happy. [Obs.]
It made all their hearts to light. Chaucer.

3. To descend from flight, and rest, perch, or settle, as a bird or
insect.
[The bee] lights on that, and this, and tasteth all. Sir. J. Davies.
On the tree tops a crested peacock lit. Tennyson.

4. To come down suddenly and forcibly; to fall; -- with on or upon.
On me, me only, as the source and spring Of all corruption, all the
blame light due. Milton.

5. To come by chance; to happen; -- with on or upon; formerly with
into.
The several degrees of vision, which the assistance of glasses
(casually at first lit on) has taught us to conceive. Locke.
They shall light into atheistical company. South.
And here we lit on Aunt Elizabeth, And Lilia with the rest. Tennyson.

LIGHTABLE
Light"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be lighted.

LIGHT-ARMED
Light"-armed`, a.

Defn: Armed with light weapons or accouterments.

LIGHT-BOAT
Light"-boat`, n.

Defn: Light-ship.

LIGHTE
Light"e, obs. imp.

Defn: of Light, to alight. Chaucer.

LIGHTEN
Light"en, v. i. Etym: [See Light to alight.]

Defn: To descend; to light.
O Lord, let thy mercy lighten upon us. Book of Common Prayer [Eng.
Ed.]

LIGHTEN
Light"en, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lightened; p. pr. & vb. n. Lightening.]
Etym: [OE. lightenen. See Light to kindle, illuminate.]

1. To burst forth or dart, as lightning; to shine with, or like,
lightning; to display a flash or flashes of lightning; to flash.
This dreadful night, That thunders, lightens, opens graves, and roars
As doth the lion. Shak.

2. To grow lighter; to become less dark or lowering; to brighten; to
clear, as the sky.

LIGHTEN
Light"en, v. t. Etym: [See Light to illuminate.]

1. To make light or clear; to light; to illuminate; as, to lighten an
apartment with lamps or gas; to lighten the streets. [In this sense
less common than light.]
A key of fire ran all along the shore, And lightened all the river
with a blaze. Dryden.

2. To illuminate with knowledge; to enlighten. [In this sense less
common than enlighten.]
Lighten my spirit with one clear heavenly ray. Sir J. Davies.

3. To emit or disclose in, or as in, lightning; to flash out, like
lightning.
His eye . . . lightens forth Controlling majesty. Shak.

4. To free from trouble and fill with joy.
They looked unto him, were lightened. Ps. xxxiv. 5.

LIGHTEN
Light"en, v. t. Etym: [See Light not heavy.]

1. To make lighter, or less heavy; to reduce in weight; to relieve of
part of a load or burden; as, to lighten a ship by unloading; to
lighten a load or burden.

2. To make less burdensome or afflictive; to alleviate; as, to
lighten the cares of life or the burden of grief.

3. To cheer; to exhilarate.
Lighens my humor with his merry jests. Shak.

LIGHTER
Light"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, lights; as, a lighter of lamps.

LIGHTER
Light"er, n. Etym: [D. ligter, fr. ligt light. See Light not heavy.]
(Naut.)

Defn: A large boat or barge, mainly, used in unloading or loading
vessels which can not reach the wharves at the place of shipment or
delivery. Lighter screw (Mach.), a screw for adjusting the distance
between the stones in a grinding mill by raising or lowering the
bridgetree.

LIGHTER
Light"er, v. t.

Defn: To convey by a lighter, as to or from the shore; as, to lighter
the cargo of a ship.

LIGHTERAGE
Light"er*age, n.

1. The price paid for conveyance of goods on a lighter.

2. The act of unloading into a lighter, or of conveying by a lighter.

LIGHTERMAN
Light"er*man, n.; pl. Lightermen (.

Defn: A person employed on, or who manages, a lighter.

LIGHT-FINGERED
Light"-fin`gered, a.

Defn: Dexterous in taking and conveying away; thievish; pilfering;
addicted to petty thefts. Fuller.

LIGHT-FOOT; LIGHT-FOOTED
Light"-foot`, Light"-foot`ed, a.

Defn: Having a light, springy step; nimble in running or dancing;
active; as, light-foot Iris. Tennyson.

LIGHTFUL
Light"ful, a.

Defn: Full of light; bright. [R.] "Lightful presence." Marston.

LIGHT-HANDED
Light"-hand`ed, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Not having a full complement of men; as, a vessel light-handed.

LIGHT-HEADED
Light"-head`ed, a.

1. Disordered in the head; dilirious. Walpole.

2. Thoughtless; heedless; volatile; unsteady; fickle; loose. "Light-
headed, weak men." Clarendon.
 -- Light"-head`ed*ness, n.

LIGHT-HEARTED
Light"-heart"ed, a.

Defn: Free from grief or anxiety; gay; cheerful; merry.
 -- Light"-heart`ed*ly, adv.
 -- Light"-heart"ed*ness, n.

LIGHT-HEELED
Light"-heeled`, a.

Defn: Lively in walking or running; brisk; light-footed.

LIGHT-HORSEMAN
Light"-horse`man, n.; pl. -men (.

1. A soldier who serves in the light horse. See under 5th Light.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A West Indian fish of the genus Ephippus, remarkable for its
high dorsal fin and brilliant colors.

LIGHTHOUSE
Light"house` n.; pl.Lighthouses (.

Defn: A tower or other building with a powerful light at top, erected
at the entrance of a port, or at some important point on a coast, to
serve as a guide to mariners at night; a pharos.

LIGHTING
Light"ing, n. (Metal.)

Defn: A name sometimes applied to the process of annealing metals.

LIGHT-LEGGED
Light"-legged`, a.

Defn: Nimble; swift of foot. Sir P. Sidney.

LIGHTLESS
Light"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of light; dark. Shak.

LIGHTLY
Light"ly, adv.

1. With little weight; with little force; as, to tread lightly; to
press lightly.
Yet shall thy grave with rising flowers be drest, And the green turf
lie lightly on thy breast. Pope.
Him thus intent Ithuriel with his spear Touched lightly. Milton.

2. Swiftly; nimbly; with agility.
So mikle was that barge, it might not lightly sail. R. of Brunne.
Watch what thou seest and lightly bring me word. Tennyson.

3. Without deep impression.
The soft ideas of the cheerful note, Lightly received, were easily
forgot. Prior.

4. In a small degree; slightly; not severely.
At the first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulun . . . and
afterward did more grievously afflict her. Is. ix. 1.

5. With little effort or difficulty; easily; readily.
That lightly come, shall lightly go. Old Proverb.
They come lightly by the malt, and need not spare it. Sir W. Scott.

6. Without reason, or for reasons of little weight.
Flatter not the rich, neither do thou willingly or lightly appear
before great personages. Jer. Taylor.

7. Commonly; usually. [Obs.] Bp. Fisher.
The great thieves of a state are lightly the officers of the crown.
B. Jonson.

8. Without dejection; cheerfully. "Seeming to bear it lightly." Shak.

9. Without heed or care; with levity; gayly; airily.
Matrimony . . . is not by any to be enterprised, nor taken in hand,
unadvisedly, lightly, or wantonly. Book of Common Prayer [Eng. Ed.].

10. Not chastely; wantonly. Swift.

LIGHTMAN
Light"man, n. ; pl. -men (

Defn: A man who carries or takes care of a light. T. Brown.

LIGHT-MINDED
Light"-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Unsettled; unsteady; volatile; not considerate.
 -- Light"-mind`ed*ness, n.

LIGHTNESS
Light"ness, n. Etym: [From Light not heavy.]

Defn: The state, condition, or quality, of being light or not heavy;
buoyancy; levity; fickleness; delicacy; grace.

Syn.
 -- Levity; volatility; instability; inconstancy; unsteadiness;
giddiness; flightiness; airiness; gayety; liveliness; agility;
nimbleness; sprightliness; briskness; swiftness; ease; facility.

LIGHTNESS
Light"ness, n. Etym: [From Light bright.]

1. Illumination, or degree of illumination; as, the lightness of a
room. Chaucer.

2. Absence of depth or of duskiness in color; as, the lightness of a
tint; lightness of complexion.

LIGHTNING
Light"ning, n. Etym: [For lightening, fr. lighten to flash.]

1. A discharge of atmospheric electricity, accompanied by a vivid
flash of light, commonly from one cloud to another, sometimes from a
cloud to the earth. The sound produced by the electricity in passing
rapidly through the atmosphere constitutes thunder.

2. The act of making bright, or the state of being made bright;
enlightenment; brightening, as of the mental powers. [R.] Ball
lightning, a rare form of lightning sometimes seen as a globe of fire
moving from the clouds to the earth.
 -- Chain lightning, lightning in angular, zigzag, or forked flashes.
 -- Heat lightning, more or less vivid and extensive flashes of
electric light, without thunder, seen near the horizon, esp. at the
close of a hot day.
 -- Lightning arrester (Telegraphy), a device, at the place where a
wire enters a building, for preventing injury by lightning to an
operator or instrument. It consists of a short circuit to the ground
interrupted by a thin nonconductor over which lightning jumps. Called
also lightning discharger.
 -- Lightning bug (Zoöl.), a luminous beetle. See Firefly.
 -- Lightning conductor, a lightning rod.
 -- Lightning glance, a quick, penetrating glance of a brilliant eye.
 -- Lightning rod, a metallic rod set up on a building, or on the
mast of a vessel, and connected with the earth or water below, for
the purpose of protecting the building or vessel from lightning.
 -- Sheet lightning, a diffused glow of electric light flashing out
from the clouds, and illumining their outlines. The appearance is
sometimes due to the reflection of light from distant flashes of
lightning by the nearer clouds.

LIGHTNING
Light"ning, vb. n.

Defn: Lightening. [R.]

LIGHT-O'-LOVE
Light"-o'-love`, n.

1. An old tune of a dance, the name of which made it a proverbial
expression of levity, especially in love matters. Nares. "Best sing
it to the tune of light-o'-love." Shak.

2. Hence: A light or wanton woman. Beau. & Fl.

LIGHTROOM
Light"room`, n.

Defn: A small room from which the magazine of a naval vessel is
lighted, being separated from the magazine by heavy glass windows.

LIGHTS
lights, n. pl. Etym: [So called from their lightness.]

Defn: The lungs of an animal or bird; -- sometimes coarsely applied
to the lungs of a human being.

LIGHT-SHIP
Light"-ship`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel carrying at the masthead a brilliant light, and moored
off a shoal or place of dangerous navigation as a guide for mariners.

LIGHTSOME
Light"some, a.

1. Having light; lighted; not dark or gloomy; bright.
White walls make rooms more lightsome than black. Bacon.

2. Gay; airy; cheering; exhilarating.
That lightsome affection of joy. Hooker.
-- Light"some*ly, adv.
 -- Light"some*ness, n.
Happiness may walk soberly in dark attire, as well as dance
lightsomely in a gala dress. Hawthorne.

LIGHTSTRUCK
Light"*struck`, a. (Photog.)

Defn: Damaged by accidental exposure to light; light-fogged; -- said
of plates or films.

LIGHTWEIGHT
Light"weight`, n. One of less than average weight; specif.:
 (a) In boxing, wrestling, etc., one weighingnot more than 133 pounds
(U. S. amateur rules 135 pounds, Eng. 140 pounds).
 (b) A person of small impotance or mental ability. [Colloq., Chiefly
U. S.]

LIGHTWEIGHT
Light"weight`, a.

Defn: Light in weight, as a coin; specif., applied to a man or animal
who is a lightweight.

LIGHT-WINGED
Light"-winged`, a.

Defn: Having light and active wings; volatile; fleeting. Shak.

LIGHTWOOD
Light"wood`, n.

Defn: Pine wood abounding in pitch, used for torches in the Southern
United States; pine knots, dry sticks, and the like, for kindling a
fire quickly or making a blaze.

LIGHTY
Light"y, a.

Defn: Illuminated. [Obs.] Wyclif.

LIGHT YEAR
Light year. (Astron.)

Defn: The distance over which light can travel in a year's time; --
used as a unit in expressing stellar distances. It is more than
63,000 times as great as the distance from the earth to the sun.

LIGN-ALOES
Lign`-al"oes, n. Etym: [OE. ligne aloes, fr. L. lignum wood + aloe
aloe.]

1. Aloes wood, or agallochum. See Agallochum.

2. A fragrant tree mentioned in the Bible. Num. xxiv. 6.

LIGNEOUS
Lig"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. ligneus, fr. lignum wood. Cf. Lignous.]

Defn: Made of wood; consisting of wood; of the nature of, or
resembling, wood; woody.
It should be tried with shoots of vines and roots of red roses; for
it may be they, being of a moreligneous nature, will incorporate with
the tree itself. Bacon.
Ligneous marble, wood coated or prepared so as to resemble marble.

LIGNIFEROUS
Lig*nif`er*ous, a. Etym: [L. lignifer; lignum wood + ferre to bear:
cf. F. lignifère.]

Defn: Yielding or producing wood.

LIGNIFICATION
Lig`ni*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lignification. See Lignify.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A change in the character of a cell wall, by which it becomes
harder. It is supposed to be due to an incrustation of lignin.

LIGNIFORM
Lig"ni*form, a. Etym: [L. lignum wood + -form: cf. F. ligniforme.]

Defn: Like wood.

LIGNIFY
Lig"ni*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lignified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lignifying.] Etym: [L. lignum wood + -fy: cf. F. lignifier.] (Bot.)

Defn: To convert into wood or into a ligneous substance.

LIGNIFY
Lig"ni*fy, v. i. (Bot.)

Defn: To become wood.

LIGNIN
Lig"nin, n. Etym: [L. lignum wood: cf. F. lignine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A substance characterizing wood cells and differing from
cellulose in its conduct with certain chemical reagents.

Note: Recent authors have distinguished four forms of this substance,
naming them lignose, lignin, lignone, and lignireose.

LIGNIPERDOUS
Lig`ni*per"dous, a. Etym: [L. lignum wood + perdere to destroy: cf.
F. ligniperde.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Wood-destroying; -- said of certain insects.

LIGNIREOSE
Lig*nir"e*ose`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Lignin.

LIGNITE
Lig"nite, n. Etym: [L. lignum wood: cf. F. lignite.] (Min.)

Defn: Mineral coal retaining the texture of the wood from which it
was formed, and burning with an empyreumatic odor. It is of more
recent origin than the anthracite and bituminous coal of the proper
coal series. Called also brown coal, wood coal.

LIGNITIC
Lig*nit"ic, a.

Defn: Containing lignite; resembling, or of the nature of, lignite;
as, lignitic clay. Lignitic group. See Laramie group.

LIGNITIFEROUS
Lig`ni*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Lignite + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing or containing lignite; lignitic.

LIGNOCERIC
Lig`no*cer"ic, a. Etym: [L. lignum wood + cera wax.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the formic acid
series, found in the tar, wax, or paraffine obtained by distilling
certain kinds of wood, as the beech.

LIGNONE
Lig"none`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Lignin.

LIGNOSE; LIGNOUS
Lig*nose`, Lig"nous, a. Etym: [L. lignosus, fr. lignum wood: cf. F.
ligneux. Cf. Ligneous.]

Defn: Ligneous. [R.] Evelyn.

LIGNOSE
Lig"nose`, n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: See Lignin.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: An explosive compound of wood fiber and nitroglycerin. See
Nitroglycerin.

LIGNUM RHODIUM
Lig"num rho"di*um. Etym: [NL., fr. L. lignum wood + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The fragrant wood of several shrubs and trees, especially of
species of Rhodorhiza from the Canary Islands, and of the West Indian
Amyris balsamifera.

LIGNUM-VITAE
Lig"num-vi"tae, n. Etym: [L., wood of life; lignum wood + vita,
genitive vitæ, life.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree (Guaiacum officinale) found in the warm latitudes of
America, from which the guaiacum of medicine is procured. Its wood is
very hard and heavy, and is used for various mechanical purposes, as
for the wheels of ships' blocks, cogs, bearings, and the like. See
Guaiacum.

Note: In New Zealand the Metrosideros buxifolia is called lignum-
vitæ, and in Australia a species of Acacia. The bastard lignum-vitæ
is a West Indian tree (Sarcomphalus laurinus).

LIGROIN
Lig"ro*in, n.

Defn: A trade name applied somewhat indefinitely to some of the
volatile products obtained in refining crude petroleum. It is a
complex and variable mixture of several hydrocarbons, generally boils
below 170º Fahr., and is more inflammable than safe kerosene. It is
used as a solvent, as a carburetant for air gas, and for illumination
in special lamps.

LIGSAM
Lig"sam, n. Etym: [Cf. D. liggen to lie, E. lie to be prostrate, and
E. flotsam, jetsam, or ligan.]

Defn: Same as Ligan. Brande & C.

LIGULA
Lig"u*la, n.; pl. L. Ligulæ, E. Ligulas. Etym: [L., a little tongue.
See Ligule.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: See Ligule.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) The central process, or front edge, of the labium of insects. It
sometimes serves as a tongue or proboscis, as in bees. [See Illust.
under Labium, and Hymenoptera.]
(b) A tongue-shaped lobe of the parapodia of annelids. See
Parapodium.

LIGULATE; LIGULATED
Lig"u*late, Lig"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ligulé. See Ligule, and
cf. Lingulate.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Like a bandage, or strap; strap-shaped.

2. Composed of ligules. Ligulate flower, a species of compound
flower, the florets of which have their corollets flat, spreading out
toward the end, with the base only tubular.

LIGULE
Lig"ule, n. Etym: [L.ligula, little tongue, dim of lingua tongue :
cf. F. ligule.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) The thin and scarious projection from the upper end of the sheath
of leaf of grass.
(b) A strap-shaped corolla of flowers of Compositæ.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A band of white matter in the wall of fourth ventricle of the
brain.

LIGULIFLOROUS
Lig`u*li*flo"rous, a. Etym: [Ligule + L. flos, floris, a flower.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Bearing only ligulate flowers; -- said of a large suborder of
composite plants, such as the dandelion, hawkweed, etc.

LIGURE
Lig"ure, n. Etym: [L. ligurius, Gr. leshem.]

Defn: A kind of precious stone.
The third row a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst. Ex. xxviii. 19.

LIGUSTRIN
Li*gus"trin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter principle found in the bark of the privet (Ligustrum
vulgare), and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a warm,
bitter taste; -- called also ligustron.

LIKABLE
Lik"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be liked; such as to attract liking; as, a likable
person. Thackeray.

LIKE
Like, a. [Compar. Liker; superl. Likest.] Etym: [OE. lik, ilik,
gelic, AS. gelic, fr. pref. ge- + lic body, and orig. meaning, having
the same body, shape, or appearance, and hence, like; akin to OS.
gilik, D. gelijk, G. gleich, OHG. gilih, Icel. likr, glikr, Dan. lig,
Sw. lik, Goth. galeiks, OS. lik body, D. lijk, G. leiche, Icel. lik,
Sw. lik, Goth. leik. The English adverbial ending-ly is from the same
adjective. Cf. Each, Such, Which.]

1. Having the same, or nearly the same, appearance, qualities, or
characteristics; resembling; similar to; similar; alike; -- often
with in and the particulars of the resemblance; as, they are like
each other in features, complexion, and many traits of character.
'The as like you As cherry is to cherry. Shak.
Like master, like man. Old Prov.
He giveth snow like wool; he scattereth the hoar-frost like ashes.
Ps. cxlvii. 16.

Note: To, which formerly often followed like, is now usually omitted.

2. Equal, or nearly equal; as, fields of like extent.
More clergymen were impoverished by the late war than ever in the
like space before. Sprat.

3. Having probability; affording probability; probable; likely.
[Likely is more used now.] Shak.
But it is like the jolly world about us will scoff at the paradox of
these practices. South.
Many were not easy to be governed, nor like to conform themselves to
strict rules. Clarendon.

4. Inclined toward; disposed to; as, to feel like taking a walk. Had
like (followed by the infinitive), had nearly; came little short of.
Had like to have been my utter overthrow. Sir W. Raleigh
Ramona had like to have said the literal truth, . . . but recollected
herself in time. Mrs. H. H. Jackson.
Like figures (Geom.), similar figures.

Note: Like is used as a suffix, converting nouns into adjectives
expressing resemblance to the noun; as, manlike, like a man;
childlike, like a child; godlike, like a god, etc. Such compounds are
readily formed whenever convenient, and several, as crescentlike,
serpentlike, hairlike, etc., are used in this book, although, in some
cases, not entered in the vocabulary. Such combinations as bell-like,
ball-like, etc., are hyphened.

LIKE
Like, n.

1. That which is equal or similar to another; the counterpart; an
exact resemblance; a copy.
He was a man, take him for all in all, I shall not look upon his like
again. Shak.

2. A liking; a preference; inclination; -- usually in pl.; as, we all
have likes and dislikes.

LIKE
Like, adv. Etym: [AS. gelice. See Like, a.]

1. In a manner like that of; in a manner similar to; as, do not act
like him.
He maketh them to stagger like a drunken man. Job xii. 25.

Note: Like, as here used, is regarded by some grammarians as a
preposition.

2. In a like or similar manner. Shak.
Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that
fear him. Ps. ciii. 13.

3. Likely; probably. "Like enough it will." Shak.

LIKE
Like, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Liked; p. pr. & vb. n. Liking.] Etym: [OE.
liken to please, AS. lician, gelician, fr.gelic. See Like, a.]

1. To suit; to please; to be agreeable to. [Obs.]
Cornwall him liked best, therefore he chose there. R. of Gloucester.
I willingly confess that it likes me much better when I find virtue
in a fair lodging than when I am bound to seek it in an ill-favored
creature. Sir P. Sidney.

2. To be pleased with in a moderate degree; to approve; to take
satisfaction in; to enjoy.
He proceeded from looking to liking, and from liking to loving. Sir
P. Sidney.

3. To liken; to compare.[Obs.]
Like me to the peasant boys of France. Shak.

LIKE
Like, v. i.

1. To be pleased; to choose.
He may either go or stay, as he best likes. Locke.

2. To have an appearance or expression; to look; to seem to be (in a
specified condition). [Obs.]
You like well, and bear your years very well. Shak.

3. To come near; to avoid with difficulty; to escape narrowly; as, he
liked to have been too late. Cf. Had like, under Like, a. [Colloq.]
He probably got his death, as he liked to have done two years ago, by
viewing the troops for the expedition from the wall of Kensington
Garden. Walpole.
To like of, to be pleased with. [Obs.] Massinger.

LIKEABLE
Like"a*ble (lik"a*b'l), a.

Defn: See Likable.

LIKEHOOD
Like"hood, n.

Defn: Likelihood. [Obs.] South.

LIKELIHOOD
Like"li*hood, n. Etym: [Likely + -hood.]

1. Appearance; show; sign; expression. [Obs.]
What of his heart perceive you in his face By any likelihood he
showed to-day Shak.

2. Likeness; resemblance. [Obs.]
There is no likelihood between pure light and black darkness, or
between righteousness and reprobation. Sir W. Raleigh.

3. Appearance of truth or reality; probability; verisimilitude.
Tennyson.

LIKELINESS
Like"li*ness, n.

1. Likelihood; probability.

2. Suitableness; agreeableness. [Obs.]

LIKELY
Like"ly, a. [Compar. Likelier; superl. Likeliest.] Etym: [That is,
like-like. See Like, a.]

1. Worthy of belief; probable; credible; as, a likely story.
It seems likely that he was in hope of being busy and conspicuous.
Johnson.

2. Having probability; having or giving reason to expect; -- followed
by the infinitive; as, it is likely to rain.

3. Similar; like; alike. [Obs.] Spenser.

4. Such as suits; good-looking; pleasing; agreeable; handsome. Shak.
Milton.

5. Having such qualities as make success probable; well adapted to
the place; promising; as, a likely young man; a likely servant.

LIKELY
Like"ly, adv.

Defn: In all probability; probably.
While man was innocent he was likely ignorant of nothing that
imported him to know. Glanvill.

LIKE-MINDED
Like"-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Having a like disposition or purpose; of the same mind.
Tillotson.

LIKEN
Lik"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Likened; p. pr. & vb. n. Likening.] Etym:
[OE. liknen. See Like, a.]

1. To allege, or think, to be like; to represent as like; to compare;
as, to liken life to a pilgrimage.
Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken
him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock. Matt. vii. 24.

2. To make or cause to be like. [R.] Brougham.

LIKENESS
Like"ness, n. Etym: [AS. gelicnes.]

1. The state or quality of being like; similitude; resemblance;
similarity; as, the likeness of the one to the other is remarkable.

2. Appearance or form; guise.
An enemy in the likeness of a friend. L'Estrange.

3. That which closely resembles; a portrait.
[How he looked] the likenesses of him which still remain enable us to
imagine. Macaulay.

4. A comparison; parable; proverb. [Obs.]
He said to them, Soothly ye shall say to me this likeness, Leech,
heal thyself. Wyclif (Luke iv. 23).

Syn.
 -- Similarity; parallel; similitude; representation; portrait;
effigy.

LIKEROUS; LIKEROUSNESS
Lik"er*ous, a., Lik"er*ous*ness, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Lickerish, Lickerishness. Chaucer.

LIKEWISE
Like"wise`, adv. & conj. Etym: [See Wise, n.]

Defn: In like manner; also; moreover; too. See Also.
Go, and do thou likewise. Luke x. 37.
For he seeth that wise men die; likewise the fool and the brutish
person perish. Ps. xlix. 10.

LIKIN
Li"kin`, n. [Written also lekin.] [ Chin. li kin; li the thousandth
part of a tael + kin money.]

Defn: A Chinese provincial tax levied at many inland stations upon
imports or articles in transit.

"Likin," which used to be regarded as illegal, as one of the many,
"squeezes" imposed by the mandarins, is, in Jamieson's opinion, just
as legal as any other form of taxation.
A. R. Colquhoun.

LIKING
Lik"ing, p. a.

Defn: Looking; appearing; as, better or worse liking. See Like, to
look. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Why should he see your faces worse liking than the children which are
of your sort Dan. i. 10.

LIKING
Lik"ing, n.

1. The state of being pleasing; a suiting. See On liking, below.
[Obs. or Prov. End.]

2. The state of being pleased with, or attracted toward, some thing
or person; hence, inclination; desire; pleasure; preference; -- often
with for, formerly with to; as, it is an amusement I have no liking
for.
If the human intellect hath once taken a liking to any doctrine, . .
. it draws everything else into harmony with that doctrine, and to
its support. Bacon.

3. Appearance; look; figure; state of body as to health or condition.
[Archaic]
I shall think the worse of fat men, as long as I have an eye to make
difference of men's liking. Shak.
Their young ones are in good liking. Job. xxxix. 4.
On liking, on condition of being pleasing to or suiting; also, on
condition of being pleased with; as, to hold a place of service on
liking; to engage a servant on liking. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
Would he be the degenerate scion of that royal line . . . to be a
king on liking and on sufferance Hazlitt.

LILAC
Li"lac, n. [Also lilach.] Etym: [Sp. lilac, lila, Ar.lilak, fr. Per.
lilaj, lilanj, lilang, nilaj, nil, the indigo plant, or from the
kindred lilak bluish, the flowers being named from the color. Cf.
Anil.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A shrub of the genus Syringa. There are six species, natives of
Europe and Asia. Syringa vulgaris, the common lilac, and S. Persica,
the Persian lilac, are frequently cultivated for the fragrance and
beauty of their purplish or white flowers. In the British colonies
various other shrubs have this name.

2. A light purplish color like that of the flower of the purplish
lilac. California lilac (Bot.), a low shrub with dense clusters of
purplish flowers (Ceanothus thyrsiflorus).

LILACIN
Lil"a*cin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Syringin.

LILIACEOUS
Lil`i*a"ceous, a. Etym: [L. liliaceus, fr. lilium lily. See Lily.]
(Bot.)
(a) Of or pertaining to a natural order of which the lily, tulip, and
hyacinth are well-known examples.
(b) Like the blossom of a lily in general form.

LILIAL
Lil"i*al, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a general resemblance to lilies or to liliaceous plants.

LILIED
Lil"ied, a.

Defn: Covered with, or having many, lilies.
By sandy Ladon's lilied banks. Milton.

LILL
Lill, v. i.

Defn: To loll. [Obs. or Prov.] Spenser.

LILLIPUTIAN
Lil`li*pu"tian, n.

1. One belonging to a very diminutive race described in Swift's
"Voyage to Lilliput."

2. Hence:

Defn: A person or thing of very small size.

LILLIPUTIAN
Lil`li*pu"tian, a.

1. Of or having to the imaginary island of Lilliput described by
Swift, or to its inhabitants.

2. Hence:

Defn: Of very small size; diminutive; dwarfed.

LILLY-PILLY
Lil"ly-pil`ly, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An Australian myrtaceous tree (Eugenia Smithii), having smooth
ovate leaves, and panicles of small white flowers. The wood is hard
and fine-grained.

LILT
Lilt, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Norw. lilla, lirla, to sing in a high tone.]

1. To do anything with animation and quickness, as to skip, fly, or
hop. [Prov. Eng.] Wordsworth.

2. To sing cheerfully. [Scot.]

LILT
Lilt, v. t.

Defn: To utter with spirit, animation, or gayety; to sing with spirit
and liveliness.
A classic lecture, rich in sentiment, With scraps of thundrous epic
lilted out By violet-hooded doctors. Tennyson.

LILT
Lilt, n.

1. Animated, brisk motion; spirited rhythm; sprightliness.
The movement, the lilt, and the subtle charm of the verse. F.
Harrison.

2. A lively song or dance; a cheerful tune.
The housewife went about her work, or spun at her wheel, with a lilt
upon her lips. J. C. Shairp.

LILY
Lil"y, n.; pl. Lilies. Etym: [AS. lilie, L. lilium, Gr. Flower-de-
luce.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant and flower of the genus Lilium, endogenous bulbous
plants, having a regular perianth of six colored pieces, six stamens,
and a superior three-celled ovary.

Note: There are nearly fifty species, all found in the North
Temperate zone. Lilium candidum and L. longiflorum are the common
white lilies of gardens; L. Philadelphicum is the wild red lily of
the Atlantic States. L. Chalcedonicum is supposed to be the "lily of
the field" in our Lord's parable; L. auratum is the great gold-banded
lily of Japan.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to handsome flowering plants of several genera,
having some resemblance in color or form to a true lily, as
Pancratium, Crinum, Amaryllis, Nerine, etc.

3. That end of a compass needle which should point to the north; --
so called as often ornamented with the figure of a lily or fleur-de-
lis.
But sailing further, it veers its lily to the west. Sir T. Browne.
African lily (Bot.), the blue-flowered Agapanthus umbellatus.
 -- Atamasco lily (Bot.), a plant of the genus Zephyranthes (Z.
Atamasco), having a white and pink funnelform perianth, with six
petal-like divisions resembling those of a lily. Gray.
 -- Blackberry lily (Bot.), the Pardanthus Chinensis, the black seeds
of which form a dense like a blackberry.
 -- Bourbon lily (Bot.), Lilium candidum. See Illust.
 -- Butterfly lily. (Bot.) Same as Mariposa lily, in the Vocabulary.
 -- Lily daffodil (Bot.), a plant of the genus Narcissus, and its
flower.
 -- Lily encrinite (Paleon.), a fossil encrinite, esp. Encrinus
liliiformis. See Encrinite.
 -- Lily hyacinth (Bot.), a plant of the genus Hyacinthus.
 -- Lily iron, a kind of harpoon with a detachable head of peculiar
shape, used in capturing swordfish.
 -- Lily of the valley (Bot.), a low perennial herb (Convallaria
majalis), having a raceme of nodding, fragrant, white flowers.
 -- Lily pad, the large floating leaf of the water lily. [U. S.]
Lowell.
 -- Tiger lily (Bot.), Lilium tigrinum, the sepals of which are
blotched with black.
 -- Turk's-cap lily (Bot.) Lilium Martagon, a red lily with recurved
sepals; also, the similar American lily, L. superbum.
 -- Water lily (Bot.), the Nymphæa, a plant with floating roundish
leaves, and large flowers having many petals, usually white, but
sometimes pink, red, blue, or yellow. [See Illust. of Nymphæa.]

LILY-HANDED
Lil"y-hand`ed, a.

Defn: Having white, delicate hands.

LILY-LIVERED
Lil"y-liv`ered, a.

Defn: White-livered; cowardly.

LILYWORT
Lil"y*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the Lily family or order. Lindley.

LIM
Lim, n. Etym: [See Limb.]

Defn: A limb. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LIMA
Li"ma, n.

Defn: The capital city of Peru, in South America. Lima bean. (Bot.)
(a) A variety of climbing or pole bean (Phaseolus lunatus), which has
very large flattish seeds. (b) The seed of this plant, much used for
food.
 -- Lima wood (Bot.), the beautiful dark wood of the South American
tree Cæsalpinia echinata.

LIMACEOUS
Li*ma"ceous, a. Etym: [L. limax, limacis, slug, snail: cf. F.
limacé.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, Limax, or the slugs.

LIMACINA
Lim`a*ci"na, n. Etym: [NL., From L. limax, limacis, a slug.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small spiral pteropods, common in the Arctic and
Antarctic seas. It contributes to the food of the right whales.

LIMACON
Li`ma`con", n. Etym: [F. limacon, lit., a snail.] (Geom.)

Defn: A curve of the fourth degree, invented by Pascal. Its polar
equation is r = a cos + b.

LIMAILLE
Li"maille, n. Etym: [F., fr. limer to file. See Limation.]

Defn: Filings of metal. [Obs.] "An ounce . . . of silver lymaille."
Chaucer.

LIMAN
Li"man, n. Etym: [F. limon, fr. L. limus slime.]

Defn: The deposit of slime at the mouth of a river; slime.

LIMATION
Li*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. limatus, p. p. of limare to file, fr. lima
file : cf. F. limation.]

Defn: The act of filing or polishing.

LIMATURE
Li"ma*ture, n. Etym: [L. limatura. See Limation.]

1. The act of filing.

2. That which is filed off; filings. Johnson.

LIMAX
Li"max, n. Etym: [L.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of airbreathing mollusks, including the common garden
slugs. They have a small rudimentary shell. The breathing pore is on
the right side of the neck. Several species are troublesome in
gardens. See Slug.

LIMB
Limb, n. Etym: [OE. lim, AS. lim; akin to Icel. limr limb, lim branch
of a tree, Sw. & Dan. lem limb; cf. also AS. li, OHG. lid, gilid, G.
glied, Goth. lipus. Cf. Lith, Limber.]

1. A part of a tree which extends from the trunk and separates into
branches and twigs; a large branch.

2. An arm or a leg of a human being; a leg, arm, or wing of an
animal.
A second Hector for his grim aspect, And large proportion of his
strong-knit limbs. Shak.

3. A thing or person regarded as a part or member of, or attachment
to, something else. Shak.
That little limb of the devil has cheated the gallows. Sir W. Scott.

4. An elementary piece of the mechanism of a lock. Limb of the law, a
lawyer or an officer of the law. [Colloq.] Landor.

LIMB
Limb, v. t.

1. To supply with limbs. [R.] Milton.

2. To dismember; to tear off the limbs of.

LIMB
Limb, n. Etym: [L. limbus border. Cf. Limbo, Limbus.]

Defn: A border or edge, in certain special uses.
(a) (Bot.) The border or upper spreading part of a monopetalous
corolla, or of a petal, or sepal; blade.
(b) (Astron.) The border or edge of the disk of a heavenly body,
especially of the sun and moon.
(c) The graduated margin of an arc or circle, in an instrument for
measuring angles.

LIMBAT
Lim"bat, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A cooling periodical wind in the Isle of Cyprus, blowing from
the northwest from eight o'clock, A. M., to the middle of the day or
later.

LIMBATE
Lim"bate, a. Etym: [L. limbatus, fr. limbus border, edge. See
Limbus.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Bordered, as when one color is surrounded by an edging of
another.

LIMBEC
Lim"bec, n. Etym: [Abbrev. of alembic.]

Defn: An alembic; a still. [Obs.] Spenser. Shak.

LIMBEC
Lim"bec, v. t.

Defn: To distill. [Obs.] Dryden.

LIMBED
Limbed, a.

Defn: Having limbs; -- much used in composition; as, large-limbed;
short-limbed.
Innumerous living creatures, perfect forms, Limbed and full grown.
Milton.

LIMBER
Lim"ber, n. Etym: [For limmer, Icel. limar branches, boughs, pl. of
lim; akin to E. limb. See Limb a branch.]

1. pl.

Defn: The shafts or thills of a wagon or carriage. [Prov. Eng.]

2. (Mil.)

Defn: The detachable fore part of a gun carriage, consisting of two
wheels, an axle, and a shaft to which the horses are attached. On top
is an ammunition box upon which the cannoneers sit.

3. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Gutters or conduits on each side of the keelson to afford a
passage for water to the pump well. Limber boards (Naut.), short
pieces of plank forming part of the lining of a ship's floor
immediately above the timbers, so as to prevent the limbers from
becoming clogged.
 -- Limber box or chest (Mil.), a box on the limber for carrying
ammunition.
 -- Limber rope, Limber chain or Limber clearer (Naut.), a rope or
chain passing through the limbers of a ship, by which they may be
cleared of dirt that chokes them. Totten.
 -- Limber strake (Shipbuilding), the first course of inside planking
next the keelson.

LIMBER
Lim"ber v. t. [imp. & p. p. Limbered; p. pr. & vb. n. Limbering.]
(Mil.)

Defn: To attach to the limber; as, to limber a gun. To limber up, to
change a gun carriage into a four-wheeled vehicle by attaching the
limber.

LIMBER
Lim"ber, a. Etym: [Akin to lim, a. Limp, a.]

Defn: Easily bent; flexible; pliant; yielding. Milton.
The bargeman that doth row with long and limber oar. Turbervile.

LIMBER
Lim"ber, v. t.

Defn: To cause to become limber; to make flexible or pliant.
Richardson.

LIMBERNESS
Lim"ber*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being limber; flexibleness. Boyle.

LIMBLESS
Limb"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of limbs.

LIMBMEAL
Limb"meal`, adv. Etym: [See Limb, and Piecemeal.]

Defn: Piecemeal. [Obs.] "To tear her limbmeal." Shak.

LIMBO; LIMBUS
Lim"bo, Lim"bus, n. Etym: [L. limbus border, edge in limbo on the
border. Cf. Limb border.]

1. (Scholastic Theol.)

Defn: An extramundane region where certain classes of souls were
supposed to await the judgment.
As far from help as Limbo is from bliss. Shak.
A Limbo large and broad, since called The Paradise of fools. Milton.

Note: The limbus patrum was considered as a place for the souls of
good men who lived before the coming of our Savior. The limbus
infantium was said to be a similar place for the souls of unbaptized
infants. To these was added, in the popular belief, the limbus
fatuorum, or fool's paradise, regarded as a receptacle of all vanity
and nonsense.

2. Hence: Any real or imaginary place of restraint or confinement; a
prison; as, to put a man in limbo.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: A border or margin; as, the limbus of the cornea. Etym:
Jamaican E limba to bend, fr. E. limber (1950)]. Often performed at
celebrations, such as weddings. (1950-1996)

LIMBOUS
Lim"bous, a. Etym: [See Limbus.] (Anat.)

Defn: With slightly overlapping borders; -- said of a suture.

LIMBURG CHEESE; LIMBURGER; LIMBURGER CHEESE
Lim"burg cheese, Lim"burg*er, n., Lim"burg*er cheese.

Defn: A soft cheese made in the Belgian province of Limburg
(Limbourg), and usually not eaten until the curing has developed a
peculiar and, to most people, unpleasant odor.

LIME
Lime, n. Etym: [See Leam a string.]

Defn: A thong by which a dog is led; a leash. Halliwell.

LIME
Lime, n. Etym: [Formerly line, for earlier lind. See Linden.] (Bot.)

Defn: The linden tree. See Linden.

LIME
Lime, n. Etym: [F. lime; of Persian origin. See Lemon.] (Bot.)

Defn: A fruit allied to the lemon, but much smaller; also, the tree
which bears it. There are two kinds; Citrus Medica, var. acida which
is intensely sour, and the sweet lime (C. Medica, var. Limetta) which
is only slightly sour.

LIME
Lime, n. Etym: [AS. lim; akin to D. lijm, G. leim, OHG. lim, L. limus
mud, linere to smear, and E. loam. . Cf. Loam, Liniment.]

1. Birdlime.
Like the lime That foolish birds are caught with. Wordsworth.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Oxide of calcium; the white or gray, caustic substance, usually
called quicklime, obtained by calcining limestone or shells, the heat
driving off carbon dioxide and leaving lime. It develops great heat
when treated with water, forming slacked lime, and is an essential
ingredient of cement, plastering, mortar, etc.CaO

Note: Lime is the principal constituent of limestone, marble, chalk,
bones, shells, etc. Caustic lime, calcium hydrate or slacked lime;
also, in a less technical sense, calcium oxide or quicklime.
 -- Lime burner, one who burns limestone, shells, etc., to make lime.
 -- Lime light. See Calcium light under Calcium.
 -- Lime pit, a limestone quarry.
 -- Lime rod, Lime twig, a twig smeared with birdlime; hence, that
which catches; a snare. Chaucer.

LIME
Lime, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Limed; p. pr. & vb. n. Liming.] Etym: [Cf.
AS. geliman to glue or join together. See Lime a viscous substance.]

1. To smear with a viscous substance, as birdlime.
These twigs, in time, will come to be limed. L'Estrange.

2. To entangle; to insnare.
We had limed ourselves With open eyes, and we must take the chance.
Tennyson.

3. To treat with lime, or oxide or hydrate of calcium; to manure with
lime; as, to lime hides for removing the hair; to lime sails in order
to whiten them.
Land may be improved by draining, marling, and liming. Sir J. Child.

4. To cement. "Who gave his blood to lime the stones together." Shak.

LIMEHOUND
Lime"hound`, n. Etym: [Lime a leash + hound.]

Defn: A dog used in hunting the wild boar; a leamer. Spenser.

LIMEKILN
Lime"kiln`, n.

Defn: A kiln or furnace in which limestone or shells are burned and
reduced to lime.

LIMELIGHT
Lime"light`, n. (Theat.)

Defn: That part of the stage upon which the limelight as cast,
usually where the most important action is progressing or where the
leading player or players are placed and upon which the attention of
the spectators is therefore concentrated. Hence, consspicuous
position before the public; as, politicians who are never happy
except in the limelight.

LIMENEAN
Li*men"e*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lima, or to the inhabitants of Lima, in
Peru.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Lima.

LIMER
Lim"er, n.

Defn: A limehound; a limmer. Chaucer.

LIMERICK
Lim"er*ick, n. [Said to be from a song with the same verse
construction, current in Ireland, the refrain of which  contains the
place name Limerick.]

Defn: A nonsense poem of five anapestic lines, of which  lines 1, 2,
and 5 are of there feet, and rime, and lines 3 and 4 are of two feet,
and rime; as --

There was a young lady, Amanda,
Whose Ballades Lyriques were quite fin de
Siècle, I deem
But her Journal Intime
Was what sent her papa to Uganda.

LIMESTONE
Lime"stone`, n.

Defn: A rock consisting chiefly of calcium carbonate or carbonate of
lime. It sometimes contains also magnesium carbonate, and is then
called magnesian or dolomitic limestone. Crystalline limestone is
called marble.

LIME TWIG
Lime twig

Defn: . See under 4th Lime.

LIME-TWIGGED
Lime"-twigged`, a.

Defn: Beset with snares; insnared, as with birdlime. L. Addison.

LIMEWATER
Lime"wa`ter, n.

Defn: Water impregnated with lime; esp., an artificial solution of
lime for medicinal purposes.

LIMICOLAE
Li*mic"o*læ, n. pl. Etym: [L. limicola a dweller in the mud; limus
mud + colere to dwell.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of shore birds, embracing the plovers, sandpipers,
snipe, curlew, etc. ; the Grallæ.

LIMICOLINE
Li*mic"o*line, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Shore-inhabiting; of or pertaining to the Limicolæ.

LIMINESS
Lim"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being limy.

LIMIT
Lim"it, n. Etym: [From L. limes, limitis: cf. F.limite; -or from E.
limit, v. See Limit, v. t.]

1. That which terminates, circumscribes, restrains, or confines; the
bound, border, or edge; the utmost extent; as, the limit of a walk,
of a town, of a country; the limits of human knowledge or endeavor.
As eager of the chase, the maid Beyond the forest's verdant limits
strayed. Pope.

2. The space or thing defined by limits.
The archdeacon hath divided it Into three limits very equally. Shak.

3. That which terminates a period of time; hence, the period itself;
the full time or extent.
The dateless limit of thy dear exile. Shak.
The limit of your lives is out. Shak.

4. A restriction; a check; a curb; a hindrance.
I prithee, give no limits to my tongue. Shak.

5. (Logic & Metaph.)

Defn: A determining feature; a distinguishing characteristic a
differentia.

6. (Math.)

Defn: A determinate quantity, to which a variable one continually
approaches, and may differ from it by less than any given difference,
but to which, under the law of variation, the variable can never
become exactly equivalent. Elastic limit. See under Elastic.
 -- Prison limits, a definite, extent of space in or around a prison,
within which a prisoner has liberty to go and come.

Syn.
 -- Boundary; border; edge; termination; restriction; bound; confine.

LIMIT
Lim"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Limited; p. pr. & vb. n. Limiting.] Etym:
[F. limiter, L. limitare, fr. limes, limitis, limit; prob. akin to
limen threshold, E. eliminate; cf. L. limus sidelong.]

Defn: To apply a limit to, or set a limit for; to terminate,
circumscribe, or restrict, by a limit or limits; as, to limit the
acreage of a crop; to limit the issue of paper money; to limit one's
ambitions or aspirations; to limit the meaning of a word. Limiting
parallels (Astron.), those parallels of latitude between which only
an occultation of a star or planet by the moon, in a given case, can
occur.

LIMIT
Lim"it, v. i.

Defn: To beg, or to exercise functions, within a certain limited
region; as, a limiting friar. [Obs.]

LIMITABLE
Lim"it*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being limited.

LIMITANEOUS
Lim`i*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. limitancus. See Limit, v. t.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a limit. [Obs.]

LIMITARIAN
Lim`i*ta"ri*an, a.

Defn: Tending to limit.

LIMITARY
Lim"i*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L.limitaris. See Limit , v. t.]

1. Placed at the limit, as a guard. "Proud limitary cherub." Milton.

2. Confined within limits; limited in extent, authority, power, etc.
"The limitary ocean." Trench.
The poor, limitary creature calling himself a man of the world. De
Quincey.

3. Limiting, or tending to limit; restrictive.
Doctrines limitary, if not subversive of the papal power. Milman.

LIMITARY
Lim"i*ta*ry, n.; pl. -ries (.

1. That which serves to limit; a boundary; border land. [Obs.]
Fuller.

2. A limiter. See Limiter, 2.

LIMITATE
Lim"i*tate, a. Etym: [L. limitatus, p. p. of limitare to limit. See
Limit, v. t. ]

Defn: Bounded by a distinct line.

LIMITATION
Lim`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. limitatio: cf. F. Limitation. See Limit,
v. t.]

1. The act of limiting; the state or condition of being limited; as,
the limitation of his authority was approved by the council.
They had no right to mistake the limitation . . . of their own
faculties, for an inherent limitation of the possible modes of
existence in the universe. J. S. Mill.

2. That which limits; a restriction; a qualification; a restraining
condition, defining circumstance, or qualifying conception; as,
limitations of thought.
The cause of error is ignorance what restraints and limitations all
principles have in regard of the matter whereunto they are
applicable. Hooker.

3. A certain precinct within which friars were allowed to beg, or
exercise their functions; also, the time during which they were
permitted to exercise their functions in such a district. Chaucer.
Latimer.

4. A limited time within or during which something is to be done.
You have stood your limitation, and the tribunes Endue you with the
people's voice. Shak.

5. (Law)
(a) A certain period limited by statute after which the claimant
shall not enforce his claims by suit.
(b) A settling of an estate or property by specific rules.
(c) A restriction of power; as, a constitutional limitation. Wharton.
Bouvier. To know one's own limitations, to know the reach and limits
of one's abilities. A. R. Wallace.

LIMITED
Lim"it*ed, a.

Defn: Confined within limits; narrow; circumscribed; restricted; as,
our views of nature are very limited. Limited company, a company in
which the liability of each shareholder is limited by the number of
shares he has taken, so that he can not be called on to contribute
beyond the amount of his shares. [Eng.] Mozley & W.

LIMITEDLY
Lim"it*ed*ly, adv.

Defn: With limitation.

LIMITEDNESS
lim"it*ed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being limited.

LIMITER
Lim"it*er, n.

1. One who, or that which, limits.

2. A friar licensed to beg within certain bounds, or whose duty was
limited to a certain district. [Formerly written also limitour.]
Chaucer.
A limitour of the Gray Friars, in the time of his limitation,
preached many times, and had one sermon at all times. Latimer.

LIMITIVE
Lim"it*ive, a.

Defn: Involving a limit; as, a limitive law, one designed to limit
existing powers. [R.]

LIMITLESS
Lim"it*less, a.

Defn: Having no limits; unbounded; boundless. Davies (Wit's Pilgr.).

LIMITOUR
Lim"it*our, n.

Defn: See Limiter, 2.

LIMMER
Lim"mer, a.

Defn: Limber. [Obs.] Holland.

LIMMER
Lim"mer, n. Etym: [F. limier. See Leamer.]

1. A limehound; a leamer.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A mongrel, as a cross between the mastiff and hound.

3. A low, base fellow; also, a prostitute. [Scot.]
Thieves, limmers, and broken men of the Highlands. Sir W. Scott.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A man rope at the side of a ladder.

LIMN
Limn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Limned; p. pr. & vb. n. Limning.] Etym:
[OE. limnen, fr. luminen, for enluminen, F. enluminer to illuminate,
to limn, LL. illuminare to paint. Illuminate, Luminous.]

1. To draw or paint; especially, to represent in an artistic way with
pencil or brush.
Let a painter carelessly limn out a million of faces, and you shall
find them all different. Sir T. Browne.

2. To illumine, as books or parchments, with ornamental figures,
letters, or borders.

LIM NAEA
Lim *næ"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fresh-water air-breathing mollusks, abundant in
ponds and streams; -- called also pond snail. [Written also Lymnæa.]

LIMNER
Lim"ner, n. Etym: [F. enlumineur, LL. illuminator. See Limn, and cf.
Alluminor.]

Defn: A painter; an artist; esp.:
(a) One who paints portraits.
(b) One who illuminates books. [Archaic]

LIMNIAD
Lim"ni*ad, n. Etym: [Gr. (Myth.)

Defn: See Limoniad.

LIMNING
Lim"ning, n.

Defn: The act, process, or art of one who limns; the picture or
decoration so produced.
Adorned with illumination which we now call limning. Wood.

LIMOGES
Li*moges", n.

Defn: A city of Southern France. Limoges enamel, a kind of enamel
ware in which the enamel is applied to the whole surface of a metal
plaque, vase, or the like, and painted in enamel colors. The art was
brought to a high degree of perfection in Limoges in the 16th
century.
 -- Limoges ware. (a) Articles decorated with Limoges enamel. (b)
Articles of porcelain, etc., manufactured at Limoges.

LIMONIAD
Li*mo"ni*ad, n. Etym: [L. limoniades, pl., Gr. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A nymph of the meadows; -- called also Limniad.

LIMONIN
Li*mo"nin, n. Etym: [From NL. Citrus Medica, var. Limonum, the
scientific name of the lemon.] (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter, white, crystalline substance found in orange and
lemon seeds.

LIMONITE
Li"mon*ite, n. Etym: [Gr. limonite, G. limonit.] (Min.)

Defn: Hydrous sesquixoide of iron, an important ore of iron,
occurring in stalactitic, mammillary, or earthy forms, of a dark
brown color, yellowish brown powder. It includes bog iron. Also
called brown hematite.

LIMOSIS
Li*mo"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A ravenous appetite caused by disease; excessive and morbid
hunger.

LIMOUS
Li"mous, a. Etym: [L. limosus, fr. limus slime, mud.]

Defn: Muddy; slimy; thick. Sir T. Browne.

LIMOUSINE
Li`mou*sine", n. [Cf. F. limousine a kind of cloak, fr. Limousin, an
old province in central France.]

Defn: An automobile body with seats and permanent top like a coupé,
and with the top projecting over the driver and a projecting front;
also, an automobile with such a body.

LIMP
Limp, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Limped; p. pr. & vb. n. Limping.] Etym:
[Cf. AS. lemphealt lame, OHG. limphen to limp, be weak; perh. akin to
E. lame, or to limp, a

Defn: To halt; to walk lamely. Also used figuratively. Shak.

LIMP
Limp, n.

Defn: A halt; the act of limping.

LIMP
Limp, n. (Ore Washing)

Defn: A scraper for removing poor ore or refuse from the sieve.

LIMP
Limp, a. Etym: [Cf. Icel. limpa limpness, weakness, and E.lap, n.,
lop, v. t. Cf. Limber, a.]

1. Flaccid; flabby, as flesh. Walton.

2. Lacking stiffness; flimsy; as, a limp cravat.

LIMPER
Limp"er, n.

Defn: One who limps.

LIMPET
Lim"pet, n. Etym: [Prob. through French fr. L. lepas, -adis, Gr.
(Zoöl.)

1. In a general sense, any hatshaped, or conical, gastropod shell.

2. Any one of many species of marine shellfish of the order
Docoglossa, mostly found adhering to rocks, between tides.

Note: The common European limpets of the genus Patella (esp. P.
vulgata) are extensively used as food. The common New England species
is Acmæa testudinalis. Numerous species of limpets occur on the
Pacific coast of America, some of them of large size.

3. Any species of Siphonaria, a genus of limpet-shaped Pulmonifera,
living between tides, on rocks.

4. A keyhole limpet. See Fissurella.

LIMPID
Lim"pid, a. Etym: [L.limpidus; akin to Gr. limpide. Cf. Lamp.]

Defn: Characterized by clearness or transparency; clear; as, a limpid
stream.
Springs which were clear, fresh, and limpid. Woodward.

Syn.
 -- Clear; transparent; pellucid; lucid; pure; crystal; translucent;
bright.

LIMPIDITY
Lim*pid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. limpiditas: cf. F. limpidité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being limpid.

LIMPIDNESS
Lim"pid*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being limpid; limpidity.

LIMPIN
Lim"pin, n.

Defn: A limpet. [Obs.] Holland.

LIMPINGLY
Limp"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a limping manner.

LIMPITUDE
Limp"i*tude, n.

Defn: Limpidity. [Obs.]

LIMPKIN
Limp"kin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Either one of two species of wading birds of the genus Aramus,
intermediate between the cranes and rails. The limpkins are
remarkable for the great length of the toes. One species (A.
giganteus) inhabits Florida and the West Indies; the other (A.
scolopaceus) is found in South America. Called also courlan, and
crying bird.

LIMPNESS
Limp"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being limp.

LIMPSY; LIMSY
Limp"sy, Lim"sy, a. Etym: [See Limp, a., and cf. W. llymsi having a
fickle motion, weak. Cf. Flimsy.]

Defn: Limp; flexible; flimsy. [Local, U. S.]

LIMU
Li"mu, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The Hawaiian name for seaweeds. Over sixty kinds are used as
food, and have species names, as Limu Lipoa, Limu palawai, etc.

LIMULE
Lim"ule, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A limulus.

LIMULOIDEA
Lim`u*loi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Limulus, and -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Merostomata, including among living animals the
genus Limulus, with various allied fossil genera, mostly of the
Carboniferous period. Called also Xiphosura.

Note: There are six pairs of leglike organs, surrounding the mouth,
most of which terminate in claws; those of the first pair (probably
mandibles) are the smallest; the others have the basal joints
thickened and spinose, to serve as jaws, while the terminal joints
serve as legs. This group is intermediate, in some characteristics,
between crustaceans and certain arachnids (scorpions), but the
respiration is by means of lamellate gills borne upon the five
posterior abdominal appendages, which are flat and united in pairs by
their inner edges, and are protected by the lidlike anterior pair,
which also bear the genital orifices.

LIMULUS
Lim"u*lus, n.; pl. Limuli (-li). Etym: [L., dim. of limus sidelong,
askance.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The only existing genus of Merostomata. It includes only a few
species from the East Indies, and one (Limulus polyphemus) from the
Atlantic coast of North America. Called also Molucca crab, king crab,
horseshoe crab, and horsefoot.

LIMY
Lim"y, a. Etym: [See 4th Lime.]

1. Smeared with, or consisting of, lime; viscous. "Limy snares.'
Spenser.

2. Containing lime; as, a limy soil.

3. Resembling lime; having the qualities of lime.

LIN
Lin, v. i. Etym: [AS. linnan. See Lithe.]

Defn: To yield; to stop; to cease. [Obs. or Scot.] Marsion.

LIN
Lin, n. Etym: [Ir. linn, or Gael. linne; akin to W. llyn a pool,
pond, lake, but in senses 2 and 3 prob. from AS.hlynn torrent. Cf.
Dunlin.]

1. A pool or collection of water, particularly one above or below a
fall of water.

2. A waterfall, or cataract; as, a roaring lin.

3. A steep ravine.

Note: Written also linn and lyn.

LINAGE
Lin"age, n.

Defn: See Lineage. [Obs.] Holland.

LINAMENT
Lin"a*ment, n. Etym: [L. linamentum, fr. linum flax.] (Surg.)

Defn: Lint; esp., lint made into a tent for insertion into wounds or
ulcers.

LINARITE
Li*nar`ite, n. Etym: [So called because formerly supposed to occur at
Linares, in Spain.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous sulphate of lead and copper occurring in bright blue
monoclinic crystals.

LINCH
Linch, n. Etym: [AS. hlinc a hill.]

Defn: A ledge; a right-angled projection.

LINCHI
Lin"chi, n. Etym: [Native Chinese name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An esculent swallow.

LINCHPIN
Linch"pin`, n. Etym: [AS. lynis the axletree; akin to D. luns
linchpin, OS. lunisa, LG. lunse, G. lünse, OHG. lun peg, bolt.]

Defn: A pin used to prevent the wheel of a vehicle from sliding off
the axletree.

LINCOLN GREEN
Lin"coln green"

Defn: . A color of cloth formerly made in Lincoln, England; the cloth
itself.

LINCTURE; LINCTUS
Linc"ture, Linc"tus, n. Etym: [L. lingere, linctum, to lick.]

Defn: Medicine taken by licking with the tongue.

LIND
Lind, n.

Defn: The linden. See Linden. Chaucer.

LINDEN
Lin"den, n. Etym: [Orig. an adj. from lind linden tree, AS. lind;
akin to D. & G. linde, OHG. linta, Icel., Sw., & Dan. lind. Cf. Lime
linden.] (Bot.)
(a) A handsome tree (Tilia Europæa), having cymes of light yellow
flowers, and large cordate leaves. The tree is common in Europe.
(b) In America, the basswood, or Tilia Americana.

LINDIA
Lin"di*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar genus of rotifers, remarkable for the absence of
ciliated disks. By some zoölogists it is thought to be like the
ancestral form of the Arthropoda.

LINDIFORM
Lin"di*form, a. Etym: [Lindia + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling the genus Lindia; -- said of certain apodous insect
larvæ. [See Illust. under Larva.]

LINE
Line, n. Etym: [OE. lin. See Linen.]

1. Flax; linen. [Obs.] "Garments made of line." Spenser.

2. The longer and fiber of flax.

LINE
Line, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lined; p. pr. & vb. n. Lining.]

1. To cover the inner surface of; as, to line a cloak with silk or
fur; to line a box with paper or tin.
The inside lined with rich carnation silk. W. Browne.

2. To put something in the inside of; to fill; to supply, as a purse
with money.
The charge amounteth very high for any one man's purse, except lined
beyond ordinary, to reach unto. Carew.
Till coffee has her stomach lined. Swift.

3. To place persons or things along the side of for security or
defense; to strengthen by adding; to fortify; as, to line works with
soldiers.
Line and new repair our towns of war With men of courage and with
means defendant. Shak.

4. To impregnate; -- applied to brute animals. Creech. Lined gold,
gold foil having a lining of another metal.

LINE
Line, n. Etym: [OE. line, AS. line cable, hawser, prob. from L. linea
a linen thread, string, line, fr. linum flax, thread, linen, cable;
but the English word was influenced by F. ligne line, from the same
L. word linea. See Linen.]

1. linen thread or string; a slender, strong cord; also, a cord of
any thickness; a rope; a hawser; as, a fishing line; a line for
snaring birds; a clothesline; a towline.
Who so layeth lines for to latch fowls. Piers Plowman.

2. A more or less threadlike mark of pen, pencil, or graver; any long
mark; as, a chalk line.

3. The course followed by anything in motion; hence, a road or route;
as, the arrow descended in a curved line; the place is remote from
lines of travel.

4. Direction; as, the line sight or vision.

5. A row of letters, words, etc., written or printed; esp., a row of
words extending across a page or column.

6. A short letter; a note; as, a line from a friend.

7. (Poet.)

Defn: A verse, or the words which form a certain number of feet,
according to the measure.
In the preceding line Ulysses speaks of Nausicaa. Broome.

8. Course of conduct, thought, occupation, or policy; method of
argument; department of industry, trade, or intellectual activity.
He is uncommonly powerful in his own line, but it is not the line of
a first-rate man. Coleridge.

9. (Math.)

Defn: That which has length, but not breadth or thickness.

10. The exterior limit of a figure, plat, or territory; boundary;
contour; outline.
Eden stretched her line From Auran eastward to the royal towers Of
great Seleucia. Milton.

11. A threadlike crease marking the face or the hand; hence,
characteristic mark.
Though on his brow were graven lines austere. Byron.
He tipples palmistry, and dines On all her fortune-telling lines.
Cleveland.

12. Lineament; feature; figure. "The lines of my boy's face." Shak.

13. A straight row; a continued series or rank; as, a line of houses,
or of soldiers; a line of barriers.
Unite thy forces and attack their lines. Dryden.

14. A series or succession of ancestors or descand ants of a given
person; a family or race; as, the ascending or descending line; the
line of descent; the male line; a line of kings.
Of his lineage am I, and his offspring By very line, as of the stock
real. Chaucer.

15. A connected series of public conveyances, and hence, an
established arrangement for forwarding merchandise, etc. ; as, a line
of stages; an express line.

16. (Geog.)
(a) A circle of latitude or of longitude, as represented on a map.
(b) The equator; -- usually called the line, or equinoctial line; as,
to cross the line.

17. A long tape, or a narrow ribbon of steel, etc., marked with
subdivisions, as feet and inches, for measuring; a tapeline.

18. (Script.)
(a) A measuring line or cord.
He marketh it out with a line. Is. xliv. 13.

(b) That which was measured by a line, as a field or any piece of
land set apart; hence, allotted place of abode.
The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yes. I have a goodly
heritage. Ps. xvi. 6.

(c) Instruction; doctrine.
Their line is gone out through all the earth. Ps. xix. 4.

19. (Mach.)

Defn: The proper relative position or adjustment of parts, not as to
design or proportion, but with reference to smooth working; as, the
engine is in line or out of line or out of line.

20. The track and roadbed of a railway; railroad.

21. (Mil.)
(a) A row of men who are abreast of one another, whether side by side
or some distance apart; -- opposed to column.
(b) The regular infantry of an army, as distinguished from militia,
guards, volunteer corps, cavalry, artillery, etc.

22. (Fort.)
(a) A trench or rampart. (b) pl.

Defn: Dispositions made to cover extended positions, and presenting a
front in but one direction to an enemy.

23. pl. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: form of a vessel as shown by the outlines of vertical,
horizontal, and obique sections.

24. (Mus.)

Defn: One of the straight horizontal and parallel prolonged strokes
on and between which the notes are placed.

25. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: A number of shares taken by a jobber.

26. (Trade)

Defn: A series of various qualities and values of the same general
class of articles; as, a full line of hosiery; a line of merinos,
etc. McElrath.

27. The wire connecting one telegraphic station with another, or the
whole of a system of telegraph wires under one management and name.

28. pl.

Defn: The reins with which a horse is guided by his driver. [U. S.]

29. A measure of length; one twelfth of an inch. Hard lines, hard
lot. C. Kingsley. [See Def. 18.] -- Line breeding (Stockbreeding),
breeding by a certain family line of descent, especially in the
selection of the dam or mother.
 -- Line conch (Zoöl.), a spiral marine shell (Fasciolaria distans),
of Florida and the West Indies. It is marked by narrow, dark,
revolving lines.
 -- Line engraving. (a) Engraving in which the effects are produced
by lines of different width and closeness, cut with the burin upon
copper or similar material; also, a plate so engraved. (b) A picture
produced by printing from such an engraving.
 -- Line of battle. (a) (Mil Tactics) The position of troops drawn up
in their usual order without any determined maneuver. (b) (Naval) The
line or arrangement formed by vessels of war in an engagement.
 -- Line of battle ship. See Ship of the line, below.
 -- Line of beauty (Fine Arts),an abstract line supposed to be
beautiful in itself and absolutely; -- differently represented by
different authors, often as a kind of elongated S (like the one drawn
by Hogarth).
 -- Line of centers. (Mach.) (a) A line joining two centers, or
fulcra, as of wheels or levers. (b) A line which determines a dead
center. See Dead center, under Dead.
 -- Line of dip (Geol.), a line in the plane of a stratum, or part of
a stratum, perpendicular to its intersection with a horizontal plane;
the line of greatest inclination of a stratum to the horizon.
 -- Line of fire (Mil.), the direction of fire.
 -- Line of force (Physics), any line in a space in which forces are
acting, so drawn that at every point of the line its tangent is the
direction of the resultant of all the forces. It cuts at right angles
every equipotential surface which it meets. Specifically (Magnetism),
a line in proximity to a magnet so drawn that any point in it is
tangential with the direction of a short compass needle held at that
point. Faraday.
 -- Line of life (Palmistry), a line on the inside of the hand,
curving about the base of the thumb, supposed to indicate, by its
form or position, the length of a person's life.
 -- Line of lines. See Gunter's line.
 -- Line of march. (Mil.) (a) Arrangement of troops for marching. (b)
Course or direction taken by an army or body of troops in marching.
 -- Line of operations, that portion of a theater of war which an
army passes over in attaining its object. H. W. Halleck.
 -- Line of sight (Firearms), the line which passes through the front
and rear sight, at any elevation, when they are sighted at an object.
 -- Line tub (Naut.), a tub in which the line carried by a whaleboat
is coiled.
 -- Mason and Dixon's line, the boundary line between Pennsylvania
and Maryland, as run before the Revolution (1764-1767) by two English
astronomers named Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon. In an extended
sense, the line between the free and the slave States.
 -- On the line, on a level with the eye of the spectator; -- said of
a picture, as hung in an exhibition of pictures.
 -- Right line a picture, as hung in an exhibition of pictures.
 -- Right line, a straight line; the shortest line that can be drawn
between two points.
 -- Ship of the line, formerly, a ship of war large enough to have a
place in the line of battle; a vessel superior to a frigate; usually,
a seventy-four, or three-decker; -- called also line of battle ship.
Totten.
 -- To cross the line, to cross the equator, as a vessel at sea.
 -- To give a person line, to allow him more or less liberty until it
is convenient to stop or check him, like a hooked fish that swims
away with the line.
 -- Water line (Shipbuilding), the outline of a horizontal section of
a vessel, as when floating in the water.

LINE
Line, v. t.

1. To mark with a line or lines; to cover with lines; as, to line a
copy book.
He had a healthy color in his cheeks, and his face, though lined,
bore few traces of anxiety. Dickens.

2. To represent by lines; to delineate; to portray. [R.] "Pictures
fairest lined." Shak.

3. To read or repeat line by line; as, to line out a hymn.
This custom of reading or lining, or, as it was frequently called
"deaconing' the hymn or psalm in the churches, was brought about
partly from necessity. N. D. Gould.

4. To form into a line; to align; as, to line troops. To line bees,
to track wild bees to their nest by following their line of flight.
 -- To line up (Mach.), to put in alignment; to put in correct
adjustment for smooth running. See 3d Line, 19.

LINEAGE
Lin"e*age, n. Etym: [OE. linage, F. lignage, fr. L. linea line. See
3d Line.]

Defn: Descent in a line from a common progenitor; progeny; race;
descending line of offspring or ascending line of parentage.
Both the lineage and the certain sire From which I sprung, from me
are hidden yet. Spenser.

LINEAL
Lin"e*al, a. Etym: [L. linealis belonging to a line, fr. linea line:
cf. F. linéal. See 3d Line.]

1. Descending in a direct line from an ancestor; hereditary; derived
from ancestors; -- opposed to collateral; as, a lineal descent or a
lineal descendant.
The prime and ancient right of lineal succession. Locke.

2. Inheriting by direct descent; having the right by direct descent
to succeed (to).
For only you are lineal to the throne. Dryden.

3. Composed of lines; delineated; as, lineal designs.

4. In the direction of a line; of a line; of or pertaining to a line;
measured on, or ascertained by, a line; linear; as, lineal magnitude.
Lineal measure, the measure of length; -- usually written linear
measure.

LINEALITY
Lin`e*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being linea

LINEALLY
Lin"e*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lineal manner; as, the prince is lineally descended from
the Conqueror.

LINEAMENT
Lin"e*a*ment, n. Etym: [L. lineamentum, fr. linea line: cf. F.
linéament. See 3d Line.]

Defn: One of the outlines, exterior features, or distinctive marks,
of a body or figure, particularly of the face; feature; form; mark; -
- usually in the plural. "The lineaments of the body." Locke.
"Lineaments in the character." Swift.
Man he seems In all his lineaments. Milton.

LINEAR
Lin"e*ar, a. Etym: [L. linearis, linearius , fr. linea line: cf. F.
linéaire. See 3d Line.]

1. Of or pertaining to a line; consisting of lines; in a straight
direction; lineal.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Like a line; narrow; of the same breadth throughout, except at
the extremities; as, a linear leaf. Linear differential (Math.), an
equation which is of the first degree, when the expression which is
equated to zero is regarded as a function of the dependent variable
and its differential coefficients.
 -- Linear equation (Math.), an equation of the first degree between
two variables; -- so called because every such equation may be
considered as representing a right line.
 -- Linear measure, the measurement of length.
 -- Linear numbers (Math.), such numbers as have relation to length
only: such is a number which represents one side of a plane figure.
If the plane figure is square, the linear figure is called a root.
 -- Linear problem (Geom.), a problem which may be solved
geometrically by the use of right lines alone.
 -- Linear transformation (Alg.), a change of variables where each
variable is replaced by a function of the first degree in the new
variable.

LINEARENSATE
Lin`e*ar*en"sate, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of a sword, but very long and narrow.

LINEARLY
Lin"e*ar*ly, adv.

Defn: In a linear manner; with lines.

LINEAR-SHAPED
Lin"e*ar-shaped`, a.

Defn: Of a linear shape.

LINEARY
Lin"e*a*ry, a.

Defn: Linear. Holland.

LINEATE; LINEATED
Lin"e*ate, Lin"e*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. lineatus, p. p. of lineare to
reduce to a straight line, fr. linea line.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Marked with lines.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Marked longitudinally with depressed parallel lines; as, a
lineate leaf.

LINEATION
Lin`e*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. lineatio the drawing of a line, fr.
lineare.]

Defn: Delineation; a line or lines.

LINEATURE
Lin"e*a*ture, n.

Defn: Anything having outline. [R.] Holland.

LINEMAN
Line"man, n.; pl. Linemen (.

1. One who carried the line in surveying, etc.

2. A man employed to examine the rails of a railroad to see if they
are in good condition; also, a man employed to repair telegraph
lines.

LINEN
Lin"en, a. Etym: [OE., fr. lin linen. See Linen, n.

1.]

Defn: Made of linen; as, linen cloth; a linen stocking.

2. Resembling linen cloth; white; pale.

LINEN
Lin"en, n. Etym: [Prop. an adj. from OE. lin. flax, AS. lin flax,
whence linen made of flax; akin to OS., Icel., & MHG. lin flax and
linen, G. lein, leinen, linen, Sw. lin flax, Goth. lein linen, L.
linum flax, linen, Gr. Line, Linseed.]

1. Thread or cloth made of flax or (rarely) of hemp; -- used in a
general sense to include cambric, shirting, sheeting, towels,
tablecloths, etc. "In linen white as milk." Robert of Brunne.

2. Underclothing, esp. the shirt, as being, in former times, chiefly
made of linen. Linen draper, a dealer in linen.
 -- Linen prover, a small microscope for counting the threads in a
given space in linen fabrics.
 -- Linen scroll, Linen pattern (Arch.), an ornament for filling
panels, copied from the folds of a piece of stuff symmetrically
disposed.

LINENER
Lin"en*er, n.

Defn: A dealer in linen; a linen draper. [Obs.]

LINEOLATE
Lin"e*o*late, a. Etym: [L. lineola, dim. of linea line.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Marked with little lines.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Marked longitudinally with fine lines. Gray.

LINER
Lin"er, n.

1. One who lines, as, a liner of shoes.

2. A vessel belonging to a regular line of packets; also, a line-of-
battle ship; a ship of the line.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: A thin piece placed between two parts to hold or adjust them,
fill a space, etc., ; a shim.

4. (Steam Engine)

Defn: A lining within the cylinder, in which the piston works and
between which and the outer shell of the cylinder a space is left to
form a steam jacket.

5. A slab on which small pieces of marble, tile, etc., are fastened
for grinding.

6. (Baseball)

Defn: A ball which, when struck, flies through the air in a nearly
straight line not far from the ground.

LINE-UP; LINEUP
Line"-up`, Line"up`, n.

Defn: The formation of football players before the start or a restart
of play; hence (Colloq.),

Defn: any arrangement of persons (rarely, of things), esp. when
having a common purpose or sentiment; as, the line-up at a ticket-
office window; the line-up of political factions.

-LING
-ling. Etym: [AS. -ling.]

Defn: A noun suffix, commonly having a diminutive or a depreciatory
force; as in duck-ling, dosling, hireling, fosterling, firstling,
underling.

-LING
-ling

Defn: . An adverbial suffix; as, darkling, flatling.

LING
Ling, n. Etym: [OE. lenge; akin to D. leng, G. länge, Dan. lange, Sw.
l, Icel. langa. So named from its being long. See Long, a.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A large, marine, gadoid fish (Molva vulgaris) of Northern Europe
and Greenland. It is valued as a food fish and is largely salted and
dried. Called also drizzle.
(b) The burbot of Lake Ontario.
(c) An American hake of the genus Phycis. [Canada]
(d) A New Zealand food fish of the genus Genypterus. The name is also
locally applied to other fishes, as the cultus cod, the mutton fish,
and the cobia.

LING
Ling, n. Etym: [Icel. lyng; akin to Dan. lyng, Sw. ljung.] (Bot.)

Defn: Heather (Calluna vulgaris). Ling honey, a sort of wild honey,
made from the flowers of the heather. Holland.

LINGA; LINGAM
Lin"ga, Lin"gam, n. Etym: [Skr. linga.]

Defn: The phallic symbol under which Siva is principally worshiped in
his character of the creative and reproductive power. Whitworth. E.
Arnold.

LING-BIRD
Ling"-bird`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European meadow pipit; -- called also titling.

LINGEL
Lin"gel, n. Etym: [F. ligneul, dim. of L. linea a linen thread.]

1. A shoemaker's thread. [Obs.]

2. A little tongue or thong of leather; a lacing for belts. Crabb.

LINGENCE
Lin"gence, n. Etym: [L. lingere to lick.]

Defn: A linctus. [Obs.] Fuller.

LINGER
Lin"ger, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lingered; p. pr. & vb. n. Lingering.]
Etym: [OE. lengen to tarry, AS. lengan to prolong, put off, fr. lang
long. Long, a.]

Defn: To delay; to loiter; to remain or wait long; to be slow or
reluctant in parting or moving; to be slow in deciding; to be in
suspense; to hesitate.
Nor cast one longing, lingering look behind. Gray.
Perhaps thou linger'st, in deep thoughts detained. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To loiter; lag; saunter; delay; tarry; stop; hesitate.

LINGER
Lin"ger, v. t.

1. To protract; to draw out. [Obs.]
She lingers my desires. Shak.

2. To spend or pass in lingering manner; -- with out; as, to linger
out one's days on a sick bed. Dryden.

LINGERER
Lin"ger*er, n.

Defn: One who lingers. Guardian.

LINGERIE
Lin`ge*rie, n. [F.]

Defn: Linen goods collectively; linen underwear, esp. of women; the
clothing of linen and cotton with its lace, etc., worn by a women.

LINGERING
Lin"ger*ing, a.

1. Delaying.

2. Drawn out in time; remaining long; protracted; as, a lingering
disease.
To die is the fate of man; but to die with lingering anguish is
generally his folly. Rambler.

LINGERINGLY
Lin"ger*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With delay; slowly; tediously.

LINGET
Lin"get, n. Etym: [F. lingot, perh. fr. L. lingua tongue (see
Tongue). Cf. Ingot.]

Defn: An ingot. [Written also lingot.]

LINGISM
Ling"ism, n.

Defn: A mode of treating certain diseases, as obesity, by gymnastics;
-- proposed by Pehr Henrik Ling, a Swede. See Kinesiatrics.

LINGLE
Lin"gle, n.

Defn: See Lingel.

LINGO
Lin"go, n. Etym: [L. lingua tongue, language. See Lingual.]

Defn: Language; speech; dialect. [Slang]

LINGOA WOOD
Lin*go"a wood`

Defn: . Amboyna wood.

LINGOT
Lin"got, n.

Defn: A linget or ingot; also, a mold for casting metals. See Linget.

LINGUA
Lin"gua, n.; pl. Linguæ. Etym: [L., the tongue.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A tongue.
(b) A median process of the labium, at the under side of the mouth in
insects, and serving as a tongue.

LINGUACIOUS
Lin*gua"cious, a. Etym: [L. linguax, -acis, loquacious, fr. lingua
tongue.]

Defn: Given to the use of the tongue; loquacious. [Obs.]

LINGUADENTAL
Lin`gua*den"tal, a. Etym: [L. lingua tongue + E. dental.] (Phonetics)

Defn: Formed or uttered by the joint use of the tongue and teeth, or
rather that part of the gum just above the front teeth; dentolingual,
as the letters d and t.

LINGUADENTAL
Lin`gua*den"tal, n. (Phonetics)

Defn: An articulation pronounced by the aid or use of the tongue and
teeth.

LINGUA FRANCA
Lin"gua Fran"ca. Etym: [It., prop., language of the Franks.]

Defn: The commercial language of the Levant, -- a mixture of the
language of the people of the region and foreign traders.

LINGUAL
Lin"gual, a. Etym: [L. lingua tongue: cf. F. lingual. See Tongue, and
cf. Language.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tongue; uttered by the aid of the
tongue; glossal; as, the lingual nerves; a lingual letter. Lingual
ribbon. (Zoöl.) See Odontophore.

LINGUAL
Lin"gual, n.

Defn: A consonant sound formed by the aid of the tongue; -- a term
especially applied to certain articulations (as those of t, d, th,
and n) and to the letters denoting them.

Note: In Sanskrit grammar certain letters, as t, th, d, dh, n, are
called linguals, cerebrals, or cacuminals. They are uttered with the
tip of the tongue turned up and drawn back into the dome of the
palate.

LINGUALITY
Lin*gual"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being lingual.

LINGUATULIDA
Lin`gua*tu"li*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. lingua tongue.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Linguatulina.

LINGUATULINA
Lin*guat`*u*li"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. lingua tongue.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of wormlike, degraded, parasitic arachnids. They have
two pairs of retractile hooks, near the mouth. Called also
Pentastomida.

Note: The adults of some species inhabit the nostrils and nasal
sinuses of dogs and other carnivores. The young, after being
swallowed by sheep, rabbits, etc., find their way to the lungs and
liver and become encysted. These, when eaten by carnivores, develop
into the adult forms.

LINGUIDENTAL
Lin`gui*den"tal, a. & n.

Defn: Linguadental.

LINGUIFORM
Lin"gui*form, a. Etym: [L. lingua tongue + -form: cf. F.
linguiforme.]

Defn: Having the form of the tongue; tongue-shaped.

LINGUIST
Lin"guist, n. Etym: [L. lingua tongue, speech, language: cf. F.
linguiste.]

1. A master of the use of language; a talker. [Obs.]
I'll dispute with him; He's a rare linguist. J. Webster.

2. A person skilled in languages.
There too were Gibbon, the greatest historian, and Jones, the
greatest linguist, of the age. Macaulay.

LINGUISTIC; LINGUISTICAL
Lin*guis"tic, Lin*guis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. linguistique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to language; relating to linguistics, or to
the affinities of languages.

LINGUISTICALLY
Lin*guis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a linguistic manner; from the point of view of a linguist.
Tylor.

LINGUISTICS
Lin*guis"tics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. linguistique.]

Defn: The science of languages, or of the origin, signification, and
application of words; glossology.

LINGULA
Lin"gu*la, n.; pl. -læ. Etym: [L., a little tongue.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A tonguelike process or part.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of brachiopod shells belonging to
the genus Lingula, and related genera. See Brachiopoda, and
Illustration in Appendix. Lingula flags (Geol.), a group of strata in
the lower Silurian or Cambrian system of Wales, in which some of the
layers contain vast numbers of a species of Lingula.

LINGULATE
Lin"gu*late, a. Etym: [L. lingulatus, fr. lingula a little tongue.
Cf. Ligulate.]

Defn: Shaped like the tongue or a strap; ligulate.

LINIGEROUS
Li*nig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. linum flax + -gerous.]

Defn: Bearing flax; producing linen.

LINIMENT
Lin"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. linimentum, fr. linire, linere, to besmear,
anoint : cf. F. liniment. Cf. Letter, Lime a viscous substance.]

Defn: A liquid or semiliquid preparation of a consistence thinner
than an ointment, applied to the skin by friction, esp. one used as a
sedative or a stimulant.

LINING
Lin"ing, n. Etym: [See Line to cover the in side.]

1. The act of one who lines; the act or process of making lines, or
of inserting a lining.

2. That which covers the inner surface of anything, as of a garment
or a box; also, the contents of anything.
The lining of his coffers shall make coats To deck our soldiers.
Shak.

LINK
Link, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupted from lint and this for lunt a torch,
match, D. lont match; akin to G. lunte, cf. MHG. lünden to burn. Cf.
Lunt, Linstock.]

Defn: A torch made of tow and pitch, or the like. Shak.

LINK
Link, n. Etym: [OE. linke, AS. hlence; akin to Sw. länk ring of a
chain, Dan. lænke chain, Icel. hlekkr; cf. G. gelenk joint, link,
ring of a chain, lenken to bend.]

1. A single ring or division of a chain.

2. Hence: Anything, whether material or not, which binds together, or
connects, separate things; a part of a connected series; a tie; a
bond. "Links of iron." Shak.

The link of brotherhood, by which One common Maker bound me to the
kind. Cowper.
And so by double links enchained themselves in lover's life.
Gascoigne.

3. Anything doubled and closed like a link; as, a link of horsehair.
Mortimer.

4. (Kinematics)

Defn: Any one of the several elementary pieces of a mechanism, as the
fixed frame, or a rod, wheel, mass of confined liquid, etc., by which
relative motion of other parts is produced and constrained.

5. (Mach.)

Defn: Any intermediate rod or piece for transmitting force or motion,
especially a short connecting rod with a bearing at each end;
specifically (Steam Engine), the slotted bar, or connecting piece, to
the opposite ends of which the eccentric rods are jointed, and by
means of which the movement of the valve is varied, in a link motion.

6. (Surveying)

Defn: The length of one joint of Gunter's chain, being the hundredth
part of it, or 7.92 inches, the chain being 66 feet in length. Cf.
Chain, n., 4.

7. (Chem.)

Defn: A bond of affinity, or a unit of valence between atoms; --
applied to a unit of chemical force or attraction.

8. pl.

Defn: Sausages; -- because linked together. [Colloq.]

LINK
Link, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Linked; p. pr. & vb. n. Linking.]

Defn: To connect or unite with a link or as with a link; to join; to
attach; to unite; to couple.
All the tribes and nations that composed it [the Roman Empire] were
linked together, not only by the same laws and the same government,
but by all the facilities of commodious intercourse, and of frequent
communication. Eustace.

LINK
Link, v. i.

Defn: To be connected.
No one generation could link with the other. Burke.

LINKAGE
Link"age, n.

1. The act of linking; the state of being linked; also, a system of
links.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Manner of linking or of being linked; -- said of the union of
atoms or radicals in the molecule.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: A system of straight lines or bars, fastened together by joins,
and having certain of their points fixed in a plane. It is used to
describe straight lines and curves in the plane.

LINKBOY; LINKMAN
Link"boy`, Link"man, n. Etym: [See 1st Link.]

Defn: A boy or man that carried a link or torch to light passengers.

LINK MOTION
Link" mo"tion. (Steam Engine)

Defn: A valve gear, consisting of two eccentrics with their rods,
giving motion to a slide valve by an adjustable connecting bar,
called the link, in such a way that the motion of the engine can be
reversed, or the cut-off varied, at will; -- used very generally in
locomotives and marine engines.

Note: The illustration shows a link motion for a vertical engine, c
representing the shaft carrying two eccentrics, a and b, for making
the engine run forward and backward, respectively, their rods e and d
being jointed to opposite ends of the slotted link f, in the opening
of which is a pin g which is attached to the valve rod h. The valve
will receive the motion of the forward eccentric when is in the
position shown, and the motion of the backward eccentric when the
link is shifted so far to the right as to bring e in line with h, or
a compound motion derived from both eccentrics when the link is
shifted to intermediate positions, the compound motion causing the
valve to cut off the steam at a point determined by the position to
which the link may have been shifted.

LINKS
Links, n. [The pl. form of Link, but often construed as a sing.]

Defn: A tract of ground laid out for the game of golf; a golfing
green.

A second links has recently been opened at Prestwick, and another at
Troon, on the same coast.
P. P. Alexander.

LINKWORK
Link"work`, n.

1. A fabric consisting of links made of metal or other material
fastened together; also, a chain.
And thou shalt make hooks of gold, and two chains of fine gold;
linkwork and wreathed. Udall.

2. Mechanism in which links, or intermediate connecting pieces, are
employed to transmit motion from one part to another.

LINNAEA BOREALIS
Lin*næ"a bo`re*a"lis. Etym: [NL.Linnaeus Linnæan + L. borealis
northern.] (Bot.)

Defn: The twin flower which grows in cold northern climates.

LINNAEAN; LINNEAN
Lin*næ"an, Lin*ne"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Linnæus, the celebrated Swedish botanist.
Linnaean system (Bot.), the system in which the classes are founded
mainly upon the stamens, and the orders upon the pistils; the
artificial or sexual system.

LINNAEITE
Lin*næ"ite, n. Etym: [See Linnæan.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of pale steel-gray color and metallic luster,
occurring in isometric crystals, and also massive. It is a sulphide
of cobalt containing some nickel or copper.

LINNE
Linne, n.

Defn: Flax. See Linen. [Obs.]

LINNET
Lin"net, n. Etym: [F. linot, linotte, from L. linum flax; or perh.
shortened from AS.linetwige, fr. AS. lin flax; -- so called because
it feeds on the seeds of flax and hemp. See Linen.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genera
Linota, Acanthis, and allied genera, esp. the common European species
(L. cannabina), which, in full summer plumage, is chestnut brown
above, with the breast more or less crimson. The feathers of its head
are grayish brown, tipped with crimson. Called also gray linnet, red
linnet, rose linnet, brown linnet, lintie, lintwhite, gorse thatcher,
linnet finch, and greater redpoll. The American redpoll linnet
(Acanthis linaria) often has the crown and throat rosy. See Redpoll,
and Twite. Green linnet (Zoöl.), the European green finch.

LINOLEATE
Li*no"le*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of linoleic acid.

LINOLEIC
Li*no"le*ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, linoleum, or linseed oil;
specifically (Chem.), designating an organic acid, a thin yellow oil,
found combined as a salt of glycerin in oils of linseed, poppy, hemp,
and certain nuts.

LINOLEUM
Li*no"le*um, n. Etym: [L. linum flax + oleum oil.]

1. Linseed oil brought to various degrees of hardness by some
oxidizing process, as by exposure to heated air, or by treatment with
chloride of sulphur. In this condition it is used for many of the
purposes to which India rubber has been applied.

2. A kind of floor cloth made by laying hardened linseed oil mixed
with ground cork on a canvas backing.

LINOTYPE
Lin"o*type, n. [See Line ; Type.] (Print.)
 (a) A kind of typesetting machine which produces castings, each of
which corresponds to a line of separate types. By pressing upon keys
like those of a typewriter the matrices for one line are properly
arranged; the stereotype, or slug, is then cast and planed, and the
matrices are returned to their proper places, the whole process being
automatic.
 (b) The slug produced by the machine, or matter composed in such
lines. --Lin"o*typ`ist (#), n.

LINOXIN
Li*nox"in, n. Etym: [Linoleic + oxygen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A resinous substance obtained as an oxidation product of
linoleic acid. [Written also linoxyn.]

LINSANG
Lin*sang", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any viverrine mammal of the genus Prionodon, inhabiting the
East Indies and Southern Asia. The common East Indian linsang (P.
gracilis) is white, crossed by broad, black bands. The Guinea linsang
(Porana Richardsonii) is brown with black spots.

LINSEED
Lin"seed`, n. Etym: [OE. lin flax + seed. See Linen.] (Bot.)

Defn: The seeds of flax, from which linseed oil is obtained. [Written
also lintseed.] Linseed cake, the solid mass or cake which remains
when oil is expressed.
 -- Linseed meal, linseed cake reduced to powder.
 -- Linseed oil, oil obtained by pressure from flaxseed.

LINSEY
Lin"sey, n. Etym: [See Linen.]

Defn: Linsey-woolsey.

LINSEY-WOOLSEY
Lin"sey-wool"sey, n.

1. Cloth made of linen and wool, mixed.

2. Jargon. [Obs.] Shak.

LINSEY-WOOLSEY
Lin"sey-wool"sey, a.

Defn: Made of linen and wool; hence, of different and unsuitable
parts; mean. Johnson.

LINSTOCK
Lin"stock, n. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. luntstock, D. lonistok; lont lunt +
stok stock, stick. See Link a torch, Lunt, and Stock.]

Defn: A pointed forked staff, shod with iron at the foot, to hold a
lighted match for firing cannon. [Written also lintstock.]

LINT
Lint, n. Etym: [AS. linet flax, hemp, fr. lin flax; or, perh.
borrowed fr. L. linteum a linen cloth, linen, from linteus linen, a.,
fr. lineum flax, lint. See Linen.]

1. Flax.

2. Linen scraped or otherwise made into a soft, downy or fleecy
substance for dressing wounds and sores; also, fine ravelings, down,
fluff, or loose short fibers from yarn or fabrics. Lint doctor
(Calico-printing Mach.), a scraper to remove lint from a printing
cylinder.

LINTEL
Lin"tel, n. Etym: [OE. lintel, F. linteau, LL. lintellus, for
limitellus, a dim. fr. L. limes limit. See Limit.] (Arch.)

Defn: A horizontal member spanning an opening, and carrying the
superincumbent weight by means of its strength in resisting crosswise
fracture.

LINTIE; LINTWHITE
Lin"tie, Lint"white`, n. Etym: [AS. linetwige. See Linnet.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Linnet. Tennyson.

LINTSEED
Lint"seed`, n.

Defn: See Linseed.

LINUM
Li"num, n. Etym: [L., flax.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbaceous plants including the flax (Linum
usitatissimum).

LION
Li"on, n. Etym: [F. lion, L. leo, -onis, akin to Gr. Chameleon,
Dandelion, Leopard.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large carnivorous feline mammal (Felis leo), found in
Southern Asia and in most parts of Africa, distinct varieties
occurring in the different countries. The adult male, in most
varieties, has a thick mane of long shaggy hair that adds to his
apparent size, which is less than that of the largest tigers. The
length, however, is sometimes eleven feet to the base of the tail.
The color is a tawny yellow or yellowish brown; the mane is darker,
and the terminal tuft of the tail is black. In one variety, called
the maneless lion, the male has only a slight mane.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A sign and a constellation; Leo.

3. An object of interest and curiosity, especially a person who is so
regarded; as, he was quite a lion in London at that time.
Such society was far more enjoyable than that of Edinburgh, for here
he was not a lion, but a man. Prof. Wilson.
American lion (Zoöl.), the puma or cougar.
 -- Lion ant (Zoöl.), the ant-lion.
 -- Lion dog (Zoöl.), a fancy dog with a flowing mane, usually
clipped to resemble a lion's mane.
 -- Lion lizard (Zoöl.), the basilisk.
 -- Lion's share, all, or nearly all; the best or largest part; --
from Æsop's fable of the lion hunting in company with certain smaller
beasts, and appropriating to himself all the prey.

LIONCED
Li"onced, a. (Her.)

Defn: Adorned with lions heads; having arms terminating in lions'
heads; -- said of a cross. [Written also leonced.]

LIONCEL
Li"on*cel, n. Etym: [OE., F. lionceau, dim. of lion.] (Her.)

Defn: A small lion, especially one of several borne in the same coat
of arms.

LIONEL
Li"on*el, n. Etym: [OF., dim. of lion.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The whelp of a lioness; a young lion.

LIONESS
Li"on*ess, n. Etym: [OF. lionesse.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A female lion.

LIONET
Li"on*et, n. Etym: [OF., dim. of lion.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young or small lion.

LION-HEART
Li"on-heart`, n.

Defn: A very brave person.

LION-HEARTED
Li"on-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Very brave; brave and magnanimous. Sir W. Scott.

LIONHOOD
Li"on*hood, n.

Defn: State of being a lion. Carlyle.

LIONISM
Li"on*ism, n.

Defn: An attracting of attention, as a lion; also, the treating or
regarding as a lion.

LIONIZE
Li"on*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lionized, p. pr. & vb. n. Lionizing
(.]

1. To treat or regard as a lion or object of great interest. J. D.
Forbes.

2. To show the lions or objects of interest to; to conduct about
among objects of interest. Macaulay.

LIONLIKE
Li"on*like`, a.

Defn: Like a lion; brave as a lion.

LIONLY
Li"on*ly, a.

Defn: Like a lion; fierce. [Obs.] Milton.

LION'S EAR
Li"on's ear`. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given in Western South America to certain plants with
shaggy tomentose leaves, as species of Culcitium, and Espeletia.

LION'S FOOT
Li"on's foot`. (Bot.)
(a) A composite plant of the genus Prenanthes, of which several
species are found in the United States.
(b) The edelweiss.

LIONSHIP
Li"on*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a lion.

LION'S LEAF
Li"on's leaf`. (Bot.)

Defn: A South European plant of the genus Leontice (L.
leontopetalum), the tuberous roots of which contain so much alkali
that they are sometimes used as a substitute for soap.

LION'S TAIL
Li"on's tail`. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of labiate plants (Leonurus); -- so called from a
fancied resemblance of its flower spikes to the tuft of a lion's
tail. L. Cardiaca is the common motherwort.

LION'S TOOTH
Li"on's tooth`; pl. Lions' teeth (. (Bot.)

Defn: See Leontodon.

LIP
Lip, n. Etym: [OE. lippe, AS. lippa; akin to D. lip, G. lippe, lefze,
OHG. lefs, Dan. læbe, Sw. läpp, L. labium, labrum. Cf. Labial.]

1. One of the two fleshy folds which surround the orifice of the
mouth in man and many other animals. In man the lips are organs of
speech essential to certain articulations. Hence, by a figure they
denote the mouth, or all the organs of speech, and sometimes speech
itself.
Thine own lips testify against thee. Jeb xv. 6.

2. An edge of an opening; a thin projecting part of anything; a kind
of short open spout; as, the lip of a vessel.

3. The sharp cutting edge on the end of an auger.

4. (Bot.)
(a) One of the two opposite divisions of a labiate corolla.
(b) The odd and peculiar petal in the Orchis family. See
Orchidaceous.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the edges of the aperture of a univalve shell. Lip bit,
a pod auger. See Auger.
 -- Lip comfort, comfort that is given with words only.
 -- Lip comforter, one who comforts with words only.
 -- Lip labor, unfelt or insincere speech; hypocrisy. Bale.
 -- Lip reading, the catching of the words or meaning of one speaking
by watching the motion of his lips without hearing his voice.
Carpenter.
 -- Lip salve, a salve for sore lips.
 -- Lip service, expression by the lips of obedience and devotion
without the performance of acts suitable to such sentiments.
 -- Lip wisdom, wise talk without practice, or unsupported by
experience.
 -- Lip work. (a) Talk. (b) Kissing. [Humorous] B. Jonson.
 -- Lip make a lip, to drop the under lip in sullenness or contempt.
Shak.
 -- To shoot out the lip (Script.), to show contempt by protruding
the lip.

LIP
Lip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lipped; p. pr. & vb. n. Lipping.]

1. To touch with the lips; to put the lips to; hence, to kiss.
The bubble on the wine which breaks Before you lip the glass. Praed.
A hand that kings Have lipped and trembled kissing. Shak.

2. To utter; to speak. [R.] Keats.

LIP
Lip, v. t.

Defn: To clip; to trim. [Obs.] Holland.

LIPAEMIA
Li*pæ"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A condition in which fat occurs in the blood.

LIPANS
Li*pans", n. pl.; sing. Lipan (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of North American Inedians, inhabiting the northern
part of Mexico. They belong to the Tinneh stock, and are closely
related to the Apaches.

LIPARIAN
Li*pa"ri*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of a family (Liparidæ) of destructive bombycid
moths, as the tussock moths.

LIPARITE
Lip"a*rite, n. Etym: [So called from Lipari, the island.] (Min.)

Defn: A quartzose trachyte; rhyolite.

LIPIC
Lip"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, fat. The word was formerly used
specifically to designate a supposed acid obtained by the oxidation
of oleic acid, tallow, wax, etc.

LIPINIC
Li*pin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Lipic.

LIPLESS
Lip"less, a

Defn: , Having no lips.

LIPLET
Lip"let, n.

Defn: A little lip.

LIPOCEPHALA
Lip`o*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Lamellibranchia.

LIPOCHRIN
Lip"o*chrin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A yellow coloring matter, soluble in ether, contained in the
small round fat drops in the retinal epithelium cells. It is best
obtained from the eyes of frogs.

LIPOGRAM
Lip"o*gram, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A writing composed of words not having a certain letters; -- as
in the Odyssey of Tryphiodorus there was no A in the first book, no B
in the second, and so on.

LIPOGRAMMATIC
Lip"o*gram*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. lipogrammatique.]

Defn: Omitting a letter; composed of words not having a certain
letter or letters; as, lipogrammatic writings.

LIPOGRAMMATIST
Lip`o*gram"ma*tist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lipogrammatiste.]

Defn: One who makes a lipogram.

LIPOMA
Li*po"ma, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A tumor consisting of fat or adipose tissue.
 -- Li*pom"a*tous, a.

LIPOTHYMIC
Li`po*thym"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. ,

Defn: Tending to swoon; fainting. [Written also leipothymic.]

LIPOTHYMOUS
Li*poth"y*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining, or given, to swooning; fainting.

LIPOTHYMY
Li*poth"y*my, n. Etym: [Gr. lipothymie.]

Defn: A fainting; a swoon. Jer. Taylor.

LIPPED
Lipped, a.

1. Having a lip or lips; having a raised or rounded edge resembling
the lip; -- often used in composition; as, thick-lipped, thin-lipped,
etc.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Labiate.

LIPPITUDE
Lip"pi*tude, n. Etym: [L. lippitudo, fr. lippus blear-eyed: cf. F.
lippitude.]

Defn: Soreness of eyes; the state of being blear-eyes; blearedness.

LIPSE
Lipse, v. i.

Defn: To lisp. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LIPYL
Lip"yl, n. Etym: [Gr. -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical of glycerin. [Obs.] Berzelius.

LIQUABLE
Liq"ua*ble, a. Etym: [l. liquabilis. See Liquate, v. i.]

Defn: Capable of being melted.

LIQUATE
Li"quate, v. i. Etym: [L. liquatus, p. p. of liquare to melt.]

Defn: To melt; to become liquid. [Obs.] Woodward.

LIQUATE
Li"quate, v. t. (Metal.)

Defn: To separate by fusion, as a more fusible from a less fusible
material.

LIQUATION
Li*qua"tion, n. Etym: [L. liquatio: cf. F. liquation.]

1. The act or operation of making or becoming liquid; also, the
capacity of becoming liquid.

2. (Metal.)

Defn: The process of separating, by heat, an easily fusible metal
from one less fusible; eliquation.

LIQUEFACIENT
Liq`ue*fa"cient, n. Etym: [L. liquefaciens, p. pr. of liquefacere.
See Liquefy.]

1. That which serves to liquefy.

2. (Med.)

Defn: An agent, as mercury, iodine, etc., which promotes the
liquefying processes of the system, and increases the secretions.

LIQUEFACTION
Liq`ue*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. liquefactio: cf. F. liquéfaction. See
Liquefy.]

1. The act or operation of making or becoming liquid; especially, the
conversion of a solid into a liquid by the sole agency of heat.

2. The state of being liquid.

3. (Chem. Physics)

Defn: The act, process, or method, of reducing a gas or vapor to a
liquid by cold or pressure; as, the liquefaction of oxygen or
hydrogen.

LIQUEFIABLE
Liq"ue*fi`a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. liquéfiable. See Liquefy.]

Defn: Capable of being changed from a solid to a liquid state.

LIQUEFIER
Liq"ue*fi`er, n.

Defn: That which liquefies.

LIQUEFY
Liq"ue*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Liquefied; p. pr. & vb. n.
Liquefying.] Etym: [F. liquéfier, L. liquere to be liquid + facere, -
ficare (in comp.), to make. See Liquid, and -fy.]

Defn: To convert from a solid form to that of a liquid; to melt; to
dissolve; and technically, to melt by the sole agency of heat.

LIQUEFY
Liq"ue*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become liquid.

LIQUESCENCY
Li*ques"cen*cy, n. Etym: [See Liquescent.]

Defn: The quality or state of being liquescent. Johnson.

LIQUESCENT
Li*ques"cent, a. Etym: [L. liquescens, p. pr. of liquescere to become
liquid, incho. fr. liquere to be liquid.]

Defn: Tending to become liquid; inclined to melt to melt; melting.

LIQUEUR
Li`queur", n. Etym: [F. See Liquor.]

Defn: An aromatic alcoholic cordial.

Note: Some liqueurs are prepared by infusing certain woods, fruits,
or flowers, in either water or alcohol, and adding sugar, etc. Others
are distilled from aromatic or flavoring agents.

LIQUID
Liq"uid, a. Etym: [L. liquidus, fr. liquere to be fluid or liquid;
cf. Skr. ri to ooze, drop, li to melt.]

1. Flowing freely like water; fluid; not solid.
Yes, though he go upon the plane and liquid water which will receive
no step. Tyndale.

2. (Physics)

Defn: Being in such a state that the component parts move among
themselves, but do not tend to separate from each other as the
particles of gases and vapors do; neither solid nor aëriform; as,
liquid mercury, in distinction from mercury solidified or in a state
of vapor.

3. Flowing or sounding smoothly or without abrupt transitions or
harsh tones. "Liquid melody." Crashaw.

4. Pronounced without any jar or harshness; smooth; as, l and r are
liquid letters.

5. Fluid and transparent; as, the liquid air.

6. Clear; definite in terms or amount.[Obs.] "Though the debt should
be entirely liquid." Ayliffe. Liquid glass. See Soluble glass, under
Glass.

LIQUID
Liq"uid, n.

1. A substance whose parts change their relative position on the
slightest pressure, and therefore retain no definite form; any
substance in the state of liquidity; a fluid that is not aëriform.

Note: Liquid and fluid are terms often used synonymously, but fluid
has the broader signification. All liquids are fluids, but many
fluids, as air and the gases, are not liquids.

2. (Phon.)

Defn: A letter which has a smooth, flowing sound, or which flows
smoothly after a mute; as, l and r, in bla, bra. M and n also are
called liquids. Liquid measure, a measure, or system of measuring,
for liquids, by the gallon, quart, pint, gill, etc.

LIQUID AIR
Liq"uid air. (Physics)

Defn: A transparent limpid liquid, slightly blue in color, consisting
of a mixture of liquefied oxygen and nitrogen. It is prepared by
subjecting air to great pressure and then cooling it by its own
expansion to a temperature below the boiling point of its
constituents  (N -194º C; O -183º C.).

LIQUIDAMBAR
Liq"uid*am`bar, n. Etym: [Liquid + amber.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus consisting of two species of tall trees having star-
shaped leaves, and woody burlike fruit. Liquidambar styraciflua is
the North American sweet qum, and L. Orientalis is found in Asia
Minor.

2. The balsamic juice which is obtained from these trees by incision.
The liquid balsam of the Oriental tree is liquid storax.

LIQUIDAMBER
Liq"uid*am`ber, n.

Defn: See Liquidambar.

LIQUIDATE
Liq"ui*date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Liquidated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Liquidating.] Etym: [LL. liquidatus, p. p. of liquidate to liquidate,
fr. L. liquidus liquid, clear. See Liquid.]

1. (Law)

Defn: To determine by agreement or by litigation the precise amount
of (indebtedness); or, where there is an indebtedness to more than
one person, to determine the precise amount of (each indebtedness);
to make the amount of (an indebtedness); clear and certain.
A debt or demand is liquidated whenever the amount due is agreed on
by the parties, or fixed by the operation of law. 15 Ga. Rep. 821.
If our epistolary accounts were fairly liquidated, I believe you
would be brought in considerable debtor. Chesterfield.

2. In an extended sense: To ascertain the amount, or the several
amounts, of , and apply assets toward the discharge of (an
indebtedness). Abbott.

3. To discharge; to pay off, as an indebtedness.
Friburg was ceded to Zurich by Sigismund to liquidate a debt of a
thousand florins. W. Coxe.

4. To make clear and intelligible.
Time only can liquidate the meaning of all parts of a compound
system. A. Hamilton.

5. To make liquid. [Obs.] Liquidated damages (Law), damages the
amount of which is fixed or ascertained. Abbott.

LIQUIDATION
Liq`ui*da"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. liquidation.]

Defn: The act or process of liquidating; the state of being
liquidated. To go into liquidation (Law), to turn over to a trustee
one's assets and accounts, in order that the several amounts of one's
indebtedness be authoritatively ascertained, and that the assets may
be applied toward their discharge.

LIQUIDATOR
Liq"ui*da`tor, n. Etym: [Cf. F. liquidateur.]

1. One who, or that which, liquidates.

2. An officer appointed to conduct the winding up of a company, to
bring and defend actions and suits in its name, and to do all
necessary acts on behalf of the company. [Eng.] Mozley & W.

LIQUIDITY
Li*quid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. liquiditas, fr. liquidus liquid: cf. F.
liquidité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being liquid.

LIQUIDIZE
Liq"uid*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Liquidized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Liquidizing.]

Defn: To render liquid.

LIQUIDLY
Liq"uid*ly, adv.

Defn: In a liquid manner; flowingly.

LIQUIDNESS
Liq"uid*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being liquid; liquidity; fluency.

LIQUOR
Liq"uor, n. Etym: [OE. licour, licur, OF. licur, F. liqueur, fr. L.
liquor, fr. liquere to be liquid. See Liquid, and cf. Liqueur.]

1. Any liquid substance, as water, milk, blood, sap, juice, or the
like.

2. Specifically, alcoholic or spirituous fluid, either distilled or
fermented, as brandy, wine, whisky, beer, etc.

3. (Pharm.)

Defn: A solution of a medicinal substance in water; -- distinguished
from tincture and aqua.

Note: The U. S. Pharmacopoeia includes, in this class of
preparations, all aqueous solutions without sugar, in which the
substance acted on is wholly soluble in water, excluding those in
which the dissolved matter is gaseous or very volatile, as in the
aquæ or waters. U. S. Disp. Labarraque's liquor (Old Chem.), a
solution of an alkaline hypochlorite, as sodium hypochlorite, used in
bleaching and as a disinfectant.
 -- Liquor of flints, or Liquor silicum (Old Chem.), soluble glass; -
- so called because formerly made from powdered flints. See Soluble
glass, under Glass.
 -- Liquor of Libavius. (Old Chem.) See Fuming liquor of Libavius,
under Fuming.
 -- Liquor sanguinis (, (Physiol.), the blood plasma.
 -- Liquor thief, a tube for taking samples of liquor from a cask
through the bung hole.
 -- To be in liquor, to be intoxicated.

LIQUOR
Liq"uor, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Liquored; p. pr. & vb. n. Liquoring.]

1. To supply with liquor. [R.]

2. To grease. [Obs.] Bacon.
Liquor fishermen's boots. Shak.

LIQUORICE
Liq"uor*ice, n.

Defn: See Licorice.

LIQUORISH
Liq"uor*ish, a.

Defn: See Lickerish. [Obs.] Shak.

LIQUOROUS
Liq"uor*ous, a.

Defn: Eagerly desirous. See Lickerish. [Obs.] Marston.

LIRA
Li"ra, n. ; pl. Lire. Etym: [It., fr. L. libra the Roman pound. Cf.
Livre.]

Defn: An Italian coin equivalent in value to the French franc.

LIRELLA
Li*rel"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L.lira a furrow.] (Bot.)

Defn: A linear apothecium furrowed along the middle; the fruit of
certain lichens.

LIRELLIFORM
Li*rel"li*form, a. Etym: [Lirella + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Like a lirella. [Written also lirellæform.]

LIRIODENDRON
Lir`i*o*den"dron, n.; pl. Liriodendra. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of large and very beautiful trees of North America,
having smooth, shining leaves, and handsome, tuliplike flowers; tulip
tree; whitewood; -- called also canoewood. Liriodendron tulipifera is
the only extant species, but there were several others in the
Cretaceous epoch.

LIRIPIPE
Lir"i*pipe, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Liripoop.

LIRIPOOP
Lir"i*poop, n. Etym: [OF. liripipion, liripion, LL. liripipium. Said
to be corrupted from L. cleri ephippium, lit., the clergy's
caparison.]

1. A pendent part of the old clerical tippet; afterwards, a tippet; a
scarf; -- worn also by doctors, learned men, etc. [Obs.]

2. Acuteness; smartness; also, a smart trick or stratagem.[Obs.]
Stanihurst.

3. A silly person. [Obs.]
A liripoop, vel lerripoop, a silly, empty creature; an old dotard.
Milles. MS. Devon Gloss.

LIROCONITE
Li*roc"o*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrated arseniate of copper, occurring in obtuse pyramidal
crystals of a sky-blue or verdigris-green color.

LISBON
Lis"bon, n.

Defn: A sweet, light-colored species of wine, produced in the
province of Estremadura, and so called as being shipped from Lisbon,
in Portugal.

LISLE
Lisle, n.

Defn: A city of France celebrated for certain manufactures. Lisle
glove, a fine summer glove, made of Lisle thread.
 -- Lisle lace, a fine handmade lace, made at Lisle.
 -- Lisle thread, a hard twisted cotton thread, originally produced
at Lisle.

LISNE
Lisne, n. Etym: [Prov. E. lissen, lisne, a cleft in a rock.]

Defn: A cavity or hollow.[Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

LISP
Lisp, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lisped; p. pr. & vb. n. Lisping.] Etym:
[OE. lispen, lipsen, AS. wlisp stammering, lisping; akin to D. & OHG.
lispen to lisp, G. lispeln, Sw. läspa, Dan. lespe.]

1. To pronounce the sibilant letter s imperfectly; to give s and z
the sound of th; -- a defect common among children.

2. To speak with imperfect articulation; to mispronounce, as a child
learning to talk.
As yet a child, nor yet a fool to fame, I lisped in numbers came.
Pope.

3. To speak hesitatingly with a low voice, as if afraid.
Lest when my lisping, guilty tongue should halt. Drayton.

LISP
Lisp, v. t.

1. To pronounce with a lisp.

2. To utter with imperfect articulation; to express with words
pronounced imperfectly or indistinctly, as a child speaks; hence, to
express by the use of simple, childlike language.
To speak unto them after their own capacity, and to lispe words unto
them according as the babes and children of that age might sound them
again. Tyndale.

3. To speak with reserve or concealment; to utter timidly or
confidentially; as, to lisp treason.

LISP
Lisp, n.

Defn: The habit or act of lisping. See Lisp, v. i., 1.
I overheard her answer, with a very pretty lisp, "O! Strephon, you
are a dangerous creature." Tatler.

LISPER
Lisp"er, n.

Defn: One who lisps.

LISPINGLY
Lisp"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With a lisp; in a lisping manner.

LISS
Liss, n. Etym: [AS. liss.]

Defn: Release; remission; ease; relief. [Obs.] "Of penance had a
lisse." Chaucer.

LISS
Liss, v. t. Etym: [AS. lissan.]

Defn: To free, as from care or pain; to relieve. [Obs.] "Lissed of
his care." Chaucer.

LISSENCEPHALA
Lis`sen*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A general name for all those placental mammals that have a
brain with few or no cerebral convolutions, as Rodentia, Insectivora,
etc.

LISSOM; LISSOME
Lis"som, Lis"some, a. Etym: [For lithesome.]

1. Limber; supple; flexible; lithe; lithesome.
Straight, but as lissome as a hazel wand. Tennyson.

2. Light; nimble; active. Halliwell.
 -- Lis"some*ness, n.

LIST
List, n. Etym: [F. lice, LL. liciae, pl., from L. licium thread,
girdle.]

Defn: A line inclosing or forming the extremity of a piece of ground,
or field of combat; hence, in the plural (lists), the ground or field
inclosed for a race or combat. Chaucer.
In measured lists to toss the weighty lance. Pope.
To enter the lists, to accept a challenge, or engage in contest.

LIST
List, v. t.

Defn: To inclose for combat; as, to list a field.

LIST
List, v. i. Etym: [See Listen.]

Defn: To hearken; to attend; to listen. [Obs. except in poetry.]
Stand close, and list to him. Shak.

LIST
List, v. t.

Defn: To listen or hearken to.
Then weigh what loss your honor may sustain, If with too credent ear
you list his songs. Shak.

LIST
List, v. i. Etym: [OE. listen, lusten, AS. lystan, from lust
pleasure. See Lust.]

1. To desire or choose; to please.
The wind bloweth where it listeth. John iii. 8.
Them that add to the Word of God what them listeth. Hooker.
Let other men think of your devices as they list. Whitgift.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To lean; to incline; as, the ship lists to port.

LIST
List, n.

1. Inclination; desire. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: An inclination to one side; as, the ship has a list to
starboard.

LIST
List, n. Etym: [AS. list a list of cloth; akin to D. lijst, G.
leiste, OHG. lista,Icel. lista, listi, Sw. list, Dan. liste. In sense
5 from F. liste, of German origin, and thus ultimately the same
word.]

1. A strip forming the woven border or selvedge of cloth,
particularly of broadcloth, and serving to strengthen it; hence, a
strip of cloth; a fillet. " Gartered with a red and blue list. "

Shak.

2. A limit or boundary; a border.
The very list, the very utmost bound, Of all our fortunes. Shak.

3. The lobe of the ear; the ear itself. [Obs.] Chaucer.

4. A stripe. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

5. A roll or catalogue, that is row or line; a record of names; as, a
list of names, books, articles; a list of ratable estate.
He was the ablest emperor of all the list. Bacon.

6. (Arch.)

Defn: A little square molding; a fillet; -- called also listel.

7. (Carp.)

Defn: A narrow strip of wood, esp. sapwood, cut from the edge of a
plank or board.

8. (Rope Making)

Defn: A piece of woolen cloth with which the yarns are grasped by a
workman.

9. (Tin-plate Manuf.)
(a) The first thin coat of tin.
(b) A wirelike rim of tin left on an edge of the plate after it is
coated. Civil list (Great Britain & U.S.), the civil officers of
government, as judges, ambassadors, secretaries, etc. Hence, the
revenues or appropriations of public money for the support of the
civil officers. More recently, the civil list, in England, embraces
only the expenses of the reigning monarch's household. Free list. (a)
A list of articles admitted to a country free of duty. (b) A list of
persons admitted to any entertainment, as a theater or opera, without
payment, or to whom a periodical, or the like, is furnished without
cost.

Syn.
 -- Roll; catalogue; register; inventory; schedule.
 -- List, Boll, Catalogue, Register, Inventory, Schedule. Alist is
properly a simple series of names, etc., in a brief form, such as
might naturally be entered in a narrow strip of paper. A roll was
originally a list containing the names of persons belonging to a
public body (as Parliament, etc.), which was rolled up and laid aside
among its archives. A catalogue is a list of persons or things
arranged in order, and usually containing some description of the
same, more or less extended. A register is designed for record or
preservation. An inventory is a list of articles, found on hand in a
store of goods, or in the estate of a deceased person, or under
similar circumstances. A schedule is a formal list or inventory
prepared for legal or business purposes.

LIST
List, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Listed; p. pr. & vb. n. Listing.] Etym:
[From list a roll.]

1. To sew together, as strips of cloth, so as to make a show of
colors, or form a border. Sir H. Wotton.

2. To cover with list, or with strips of cloth; to put list on; as,
to list a door; to stripe as if with list.
The tree that stood white-listed through the gloom. Tennyson.

3. To enroll; to place or register in a list.
Listed among the upper serving men. Milton.

4. To engage, as a soldier; to enlist.
I will list you for my soldier. Sir W. Scott.

5. (Carp.)

Defn: To cut away a narrow strip, as of sapwood, from the edge of;
as, to list a board. To list a stock (Stock Exchange), to put it in
the list of stocks called at the meeting of the board.

LIST
List, v. i.

Defn: To engage in public service by enrolling one's name; to enlist.

LISTEL
List"el, n. Etym: [F. listel, dim. of liste fillet, list. See List
the edge.] (Arch.)

Defn: Same as List, n., 6.

LISTEN
Lis"ten, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Listened; p. pr. & vb. n. Listening.]
Etym: [OE. listnen, listen, lustnen, lusten, AS. hlystan; akin to
hlyst hearing, OS. hlust, Icel. hlusta to listen, hlust ear, AS.
hlosnian to wait in suspense, OHG. hlosen to listen, Gr. loud. sq.
root41. See Loud, and cf. List to listen.]

1. To give close attention with the purpose of hearing; to give ear;
to hearken; to attend.
When we have occasion to listen, and give a more particular attention
to same sound, the tympanum is drawn to a more than ordinary tension.
Holder.

2. To give heed; to yield to advice; to follow admonition; to obey.
Listen to me, and by me be ruled. Tennyson.
To listen after, to take an interest in. [Obs.]
Soldiers note forts, armories, and magazines; scholars listen after
libraries, disputations, and professors. Fuller.

Syn.
 -- To attend; hearken. See Attend.

LISTEN
Lis"ten, v. t.

Defn: To attend to. [Obs.] Shak.

LISTENER
Lis"ten*er, n.

Defn: One who listens; a hearkener.

LISTER
List"er, n.

Defn: One who makes a list or roll.

LISTER
Lis"ter, n.

Defn: Same as Leister.

LISTERIAN
Lis*te"ri*an, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to listerism.

LISTERISM
Lis"ter*ism, n. (Med.)

Defn: The systematic use of antiseptics in the performance of
operations and the treatment of wounds; -- so called from Joseph
Lister, an English surgeon.

LISTERIZE
Lis"ter*ize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -ized; p. pr. & vb. n. -izing.]
(Med.)

Defn: To make antiseptic.

LISTFUL
List"ful, a.

Defn: Attentive [Obs.] Spenser.

LISTING
List"ing, n.

1. The act or process of one who lists (in any sense of the verb);
as, the listing of a door; the listing of a stock at the Stock
Exchange.

2. The selvedge of cloth; list.

3. (Carp.)

Defn: The sapwood cut from the edge of a board.

4. (Agric.)

Defn: The throwing up of the soil into ridges, -- a method adopted in
the culture of beets and some garden crops. [Local, U. S.]

LISTLESS
List"less, a. Etym: [OE. listles, lustles. See Lust.]

Defn: Having no desire or inclination; indifferent; heedless;
spiritless. " A listless unconcern." Thomson.
Benumbed with cold, and listless of their gain. Dryden.
I was listless, and desponding. Swift.

Syn.
 -- Heedless; careless; indifferent; vacant; uninterested; languid;
spiritless; supine; indolent.
 -- List"less*ly, adv.
 -- List"less*ness, n.

LIT
Lit

Defn: , a form of the imp. & p. p. of Light.

LITANY
Lit"a*ny, n.; pl. Litanies. Etym: [OE. letanie, OF. letanie, F.
litanie, L. litania, Gr.

Defn: A solemn form of supplication in the public worship of various
churches, in which the clergy and congregation join, the former
leading and the latter responding in alternate sentences. It is
usually of a penitential character.
Supplications . . . for the appeasing of God's wrath were of the
Greek church termed litanies, and rogations of the Latin. Hooker.

LITARGE
Lit"arge, n.

Defn: Litharge. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LITCHI
Li"tchi`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of a tree native to China (Nephelium Litchi). It is
nutlike, having a rough but tender shell, containing an aromatic
pulp, and a single large seed. In the dried fruit which is exported
the pulp somewhat resembles a raisin in color and form. [Written also
lichi, and lychee.] -- lite. See -lith.

LITE
Lite, a., adv., & n.

Defn: Little. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LITER; LITRE
Li"ter, Li"tre, n. Etym: [F. litre, Gr.

Defn: A measure of capacity in the metric system, being a cubic
decimeter, equal to 61.022 cubic inches, or 2.113 American pints, or
1.76 English pints.

LITERACY
Lit"er*a*cy, n.

Defn: State of being literate.

LITERAL
Lit"er*al, a. Etym: [F. litéral, littéral, L. litteralis, literalis,
fr. littera, litera, a letter. See Letter.]

1. According to the letter or verbal expression; real; not figurative
or metaphorical; as, the literal meaning of a phrase.
It hath but one simple literal sense whose light the owls can not
abide. Tyndale
.

2. Following the letter or exact words; not free.
A middle course between the rigor of literal translations and the
liberty of paraphrasts. Hooker.

3. Consisting of, or expressed by, letters.
The literal notation of numbers was known to Europeans before the
ciphers. Johnson.

4. Giving a strict or literal construction; unimaginative; matter-of
fast; -- applied to persons. Literal contract (Law), contract of
which the whole evidence is given in writing. Bouvier.
 -- Literal equation (Math.), an equation in which known quantities
are expressed either wholly or in part by means of letters; --
distinguished from a numerical equation.

LITERAL
Lit"er*al, n.

Defn: Literal meaning. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

LITERALISM
Lit"er*al*ism, n.

1. That which accords with the letter; a mode of interpreting
literally; adherence to the letter.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: The tendency or disposition to represent objects faithfully,
without abstraction, conventionalities, or idealization.

LITERALIST
Lit"er*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who adheres to the letter or exact word; an interpreter
according to the letter.

LITERALITY
Lit`er*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. littéralité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being literal. Sir T. Browne.

LITERALIZATION
Lit`er*al*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of literalizing; reduction to a literal meaning.

LITERALIZE
Lit"er*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Literalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Literalizing.]

Defn: To make literal; to interpret or put in practice according to
the strict meaning of the words; -- opposed to spiritualize; as, to
literalize Scripture.

LITERALIZER
Lit"er*al*i`zer, n.

Defn: A literalist.

LITERALLY
Lit"er*al*ly, adv.

1. According to the primary and natural import of words; not
figuratively; as, a man and his wife can not be literally one flesh.

2. With close adherence to words; word by word.
So wild and ungovernable a poet can not be translated literally.
Dryden.

LITERALNESS
Lit"er*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being literal; literal import.

LITERARY
Lit"er*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. litterarius, literarius,fr. littera,
litera, a letter: cf. F. littéraire. See Letter.]

1. Of or pertaining to letters or literature; pertaining to learning
or learned men; as, literary fame; a literary history; literary
conversation.
He has long outlived his century, the term commonly fixed as the test
of literary merit. Johnson.

2. Versed in, or acquainted with, literature; occupied with
literature as a profession; connected with literature or with men of
letters; as, a literary man.
In the literary as well as fashionable world. Mason.
Literary property. (a) Property which consists in written or printed
compositions. (b) The exclusive right of publication as recognized
and limited by law.

LITERATE
Lit"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. litteratus, literatus. See Letter.]

Defn: Instructed in learning, science, or literature; learned;
lettered.
The literate now chose their emperor, as the military chose theirs.
Landor.

LITERATE
Lit"er*ate, n.

1. One educated, but not having taken a university degree;
especially, such a person who is prepared to take holy orders. [Eng.]

2. A literary man.

LITERATI
Lit`e*ra"ti, n. pl. Etym: [See Literatus.]

Defn: Learned or literary men. See Literatus.
Shakespearean commentators, and other literati. Craik.

LITERATIM
Lit`e*ra"tim, adv. Etym: [LL., fr. L.litera, litera, letter.]

Defn: Letter for letter.

LITERATION
Lit`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. littera, litera, letter.]

Defn: The act or process of representing by letters.

LITERATOR
Lit"er*a`tor, n. Etym: [L. litterator, literator. See Letter.]

1. One who teaches the letters or elements of knowledge; a petty
schoolmaster. Burke.

2. A person devoted to the study of literary trifles, esp. trifles
belonging to the literature of a former age.
That class of subjects which are interesting to the regular literator
or black-letter " bibliomane," simply because they have once been
interesting. De Quincey.

3. A learned person; a literatus. Sir W. Hamilton.

LITERATURE
Lit"er*a*ture, n. Etym: [F. littérature, L. litteratura, literatura,
learning, grammar, writing, fr.littera, litera, letter. See Letter.]

1. Learning; acquaintance with letters or books.

2. The collective body of literary productions, embracing the entire
results of knowledge and fancy preserved in writing; also, the whole
body of literary productions or writings upon a given subject, or in
reference to a particular science or branch of knowledge, or of a
given country or period; as, the literature of Biblical criticism;
the literature of chemistry.

3. The class of writings distinguished for beauty of style or
expression, as poetry, essays, or history, in distinction from
scientific treatises and works which contain positive knowledge;
belles-lettres.

4. The occupation, profession, or business of doing literary work.
Lamp.

Syn.
 -- Science; learning; erudition; belles-lettres. See Science.
 -- Literature, Learning, Erudition. Literature, in its widest sense,
embraces all compositions in writing or print which preserve the
results of observation, thought, or fancy; but those upon the
positive sciences (mathematics, etc.) are usually excluded. It is
often confined, however, to belles-lettres, or works of taste and
sentiment, as poetry, eloquence, history, etc., excluding abstract
discussions and mere erudition. A man of literature (in this
narrowest sense) is one who is versed in belles-lettres; a man of
learning excels in what is taught in the schools, and has a wide
extent of knowledge, especially, in respect to the past; a man of
erudition is one who is skilled in the more recondite branches of
learned inquiry.
The origin of all positive science and philosophy, as well as of all
literature and art, in the forms in which they exist in civilized
Europe, must be traced to the Greeks. Sir G. Lewis.
Learning thy talent is, but mine is sense. Prior.
Some gentlemen, abounding in their university erudition, fill their
sermons with philosophical terms. Swift.

LITERATUS
Lit`e*ra"tus, n.; pl. Literati. Etym: [L. litteratus, literatus.]

Defn: A learned man; a man acquainted with literature; -- chiefly
used in the plural.
Now we are to consider that our bright ideal of a literatus may
chance to be maimed. De Quincey.

-LITH; -LITE
-lith, -lite.

Defn: Combining forms fr. Gr. li`qos a stone; -- used chiefly in
naming minerals and rocks.

LITH
Lith, obs.

Defn: 3d pers. sing. pres. of Lie, to recline, for lieth. Chaucer.

LITH
Lith, n. Etym: [AS. li.]

Defn: A joint or limb; a division; a member; a part formed by growth,
and articulated to, or symmetrical with, other parts. Chaucer.

LITHAEMIA
Li*thæ"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A condition in which uric (lithic) acid is present in the
blood.

LITHAGOGUE
Lith"a*gogue, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine having, or supposed to have, the power of expelling
calculous matter with the urine. Hooper.

LITHARGE
Lith"arge, n. Etym: [OE. litarge, F. litharge, L. lithargyrus, Gr.
(Chem.)

Defn: Lead monoxide; a yellowish red substance, obtained as an
amorphous powder, or crystallized in fine scales, by heating lead
moderately in a current of air or by calcining lead nitrate or
carbonate. It is used in making flint glass, in glazing earthenware,
in making red lead minium, etc. Called also massicot.

LITHARGYRUM
Li*thar"gy*rum, n. Etym: [NL. See Litharge.] (Old Chem.)

Defn: Crystallized litharge, obtained by fusion in the form of fine
yellow scales.

LITHATE
Lith"ate, n. (Old Med. Chem.)

Defn: A salt of lithic or uric acid; a urate. [Obs.] [Written also
lithiate.]

LITHE
Lithe, v. i. & i. Etym: [Icel Listen.]

Defn: To listen or listen to; to hearken to. [Obs.] P. Plowman.

LITHE
Lithe, a. Etym: [AS. lind, gelind, OHG. lindi, Icel. linr, L. lenis
soft, mild, lentus flexible, and AS. linnan to yield. Cf. Lenient.]

1. Mild; calm; as, lithe weather. [Obs.]

2. Capable of being easily bent; pliant; flexible; limber; as, the
elephant's lithe proboscis. Milton.

LITHE
Lithe, v. t. Etym: [AS. Lithe, a.]

Defn: To smooth; to soften; to palliate. [Obs.]

LITHELY
Lithe"ly, adv.

Defn: In a lithe, pliant, or flexible manner.

LITHENESS
Lithe"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being lithe; flexibility; limberness.

LITHER
Li"ther, a. Etym: [AS.

Defn: Bad; wicked; false; worthless; slothful. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Not lither in business, fervent in spirit. Bp. Woolton.

Note: Professor Skeat thinks " the lither sky" as found in
Shakespeare's Henry VI. ((Part I. IY. YII., 21) means the stagnant or
pestilential sky.
 -- Li"ther*ly, adv. [Obs.].
 -- Li"ther*ness, n. [Obs.]

LITHERLY
Li"ther*ly, a.

Defn: Crafty; cunning; mischievous; wicked; treacherous;
lazy.[Archaic]
He [the dwarf] was waspish, arch, and litherly. Sir W. Scott.

LITHESOME
Lithe"some, a. Etym: [See Lithe, a., and cf. Lissom.]

Defn: Pliant; limber; flexible; supple; nimble; lissom.
 -- Lithe"some*ness, n.

LITHIA
Lith"i*a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: The oxide of lithium; a strong alkaline caustic similar to
potash and soda, but weaker. See Lithium. Lithia emerald. See
Hiddenite.

LITHIASIS
Li*thi"a*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The formation of stony concretions or calculi in any part of
the body, especially in the bladder and urinary passages. Dunglison.

LITHIC
Lith"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. lithique.]

1. Of or pertaining to stone; as, lithic architecture.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to the formation of uric-acid concretions (stone) in
the bladder and other parts of the body; as, lithic diathesis. LIthic
acid (Old Med. Chem.), uric acid. See Uric acid, under Uric.

LITHIC
Lith"ic, n. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine which tends to prevent stone in the bladder.

LITHIC
Lith"ic, a. Etym: [From Lithium.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to or denoting lithium or some of its compounds.
Frankland.

LITHIOPHILITE
Lith`i*oph"i*lite, n. Etym: [Lithium + Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A phosphate of manganese and lithium; a variety of triphylite.

LITHIUM
Lith"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A metallic element of the alkaline group, occurring in several
minerals, as petalite, spodumene, lepidolite, triphylite, etc., and
otherwise widely disseminated, though in small quantities.

Note: When isolated it is a soft, silver white metal, tarnishing and
oxidizing very rapidly in the air. It is the lightest solid element
known, specific gravity being 0.59. Symbol Li. Atomic weight 7.0 So
called from having been discovered in a mineral.

LITHO
Lith"o

Defn: A combining form from Gr. stone.

LITHOBILIC
Lith`o*bil"ic, a. Etym: [Litho + bile.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to or designating an organic acid of the tartaric
acid series, distinct from lithofellic acid, but, like it, obtained
from certain bile products, as bezoar stones.

LITHOCARP
Lith"o*carp, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. lithocarpe.] (Paleon.)

Defn: Fossil fruit; a fruit petrified; a carpolite.

LITHOCHROMATICS
Lith`o*chro*mat"ics, n.

Defn: See Lithochromics.

LITHOCHROMICS
Lith`o*chro"mics, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr.

Defn: The art of printing colored pictures on canvas from oil
paintings on stone.

LITHOCLAST
Lith"o*clast, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for crushing stones in the bladder.

LITHOCYST
Lith"o*cyst, n. Etym: [Litho- + cyst.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sac containing small, calcareous concretions (otoliths). They
are found in many Medusæ, and other invertebrates, and are supposed
to be auditory organs.

LITHODOME
Lith"o*dome, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. lithodome.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of bivalves, which form holes in
limestone, in which they live; esp., any species of the genus
Lithodomus.

LITHODOMOUS
Li*thod"o*mous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, Lithodomus; lithophagous.

LITHODOMUS
Li*thod"o*mus, n. Etym: [NL. See Lithodome.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of elongated bivalve shells, allied to the mussels, and
remarkable for their ability to bore holes for shelter, in solid
limestone, shells, etc. Called also Lithophagus.

Note: These holes are at first very small and shallow, but are
enlarged with the growth of the shell, sometimes becoming two or
three inches deep and nearly an inch diameter.

LITHOFELLIC
Lith"o*fel"lic, a. Etym: [Litho- + L. fel, fellis, gall.] (Physiol.
Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a crystalline, organic acid,
resembling cholic acid, found in the biliary intestinal concretions
(bezoar stones) common in certain species of antelope.

LITHOFRACTEUR
Lith`o*frac"teur, n. Etym: [F., fr. frangere, fractum, to break.]

Defn: An explosive compound of nitroglycerin. See Nitroglycerin.

LITHOGENESY
Lith`o*gen"e*sy, n. Etym: [Litho- Gr. lithogénésie. See Genesis.]

Defn: The doctrine or science of the origin of the minerals composing
the globe.

LITHOGENOUS
Li*thog"e*nous, a. Etym: [Litho- + -genous.]

Defn: Stone-producing; -- said of polyps which form coral.

LITHOGLYPH
Lith"o*glyph, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An engraving on a gem.

LITHOGLYPHER
Li*thog"ly*pher, n.

Defn: One who curs or engraves precious stones.

LITHOGLYPHIC
Lith`o*glyph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the art of cutting and engraving precious
stones.

LITHOGLYPTICS
Lith`o*glyp"tics, n.

Defn: The art of cutting and engraving gems.

LITHOGRAPH
Lith"o*graph, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lithographed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lithographing.] Etym: [Litho- + -graph: cf. F. lithographier.]

Defn: To trace on stone by the process of lithography so as to
transfer the design to paper by printing; as, to lithograph a design;
to lithograph a painting. See Lithography.

LITHOGRAPH
Lith"o*graph, n.

Defn: A print made by lithography.

LITHOGRAPHER
Li*thog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who lithographs; one who practices lithography.

LITHOGRAPHIC; LITHOGRAPHICAL
Lith`o*graph"ic, Lith`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
lithographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to lithography; made by lithography; as, the
lithographic art; a lithographic picture. Lithographic limestone
(Min.), a compact, fine-grained limestone, obtained largely from the
Lias and Oölite, esp. of Bavaria, and extensively used in
lithography.
 -- Lith`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

LITHOGRAPHY
Li*thog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lithographie.]

Defn: The art or process of putting designs or writing, with a greasy
material, on stone, and of producing printed impressions therefrom.
The process depends, in the main, upon the antipathy between grease
and water, which prevents a printing ink containing oil from adhering
to wetted parts of the stone not covered by the design. See
Lithographic limestone, under Lithographic.

LITHOID; LITHOIDAL
Lith"oid Li*thoid"al, a. Etym: [Litho- + -oid: cf. F. lithoïde.]

Defn: Like a stone; having a stony structure.

LITHOLATRY
Li*thol"a*try, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr.

Defn: The worship of a stone or stones.

LITHOLOGIC; LITHOLOGICAL
Lith`o*log"ic, Lith`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lithologique.]

1. (Geol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the character of a rock, as derived from
the nature and mode of aggregation of its mineral contents.

2. Of or pertaining to lithology.

LITHOLOGICALLY
Lith`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: From a lithological point of view; as, to consider a stratum
lithologically.

LITHOLOGIST
Li*thol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is skilled in lithology.

LITHOLOGY
Li*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Litho- + -logy: cf. F. lithologie.]

1. The science which treats of rocks, as regards their mineral
constitution and classification, and their mode of occurrence in
nature.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A treatise on stones found in the body.

LITHOMANCY
Lith"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Litho- + -mancy: cf. F. lithomancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of stones.

LITHOMARGE
Lith"o*marge, n. Etym: [Litho- + L. marga marl.]

Defn: A clay of a fine smooth texture, and very sectile.

LITHONTHRIPTIC; LITHONTHRYPTIC
Lith`on*thrip"tic, Lith`on*thryp"tic, a. & n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr.

Defn: Same as Lithontriptic.

LITHONTRIPTIC
Lith`on*trip"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. lithontriptique.] (Med.)

Defn: Having the quality of, or used for, dissolving or destroying
stone in the bladder or kidneys; as, lithontriptic forcéps.
 -- n.

Defn: A lithontriptic remedy or agent, as distilled water.

LITHONTRIPTIST
Lith"on*trip"tist, n.

Defn: Same as Lithotriptist.

LITHONTRIPTOR
Lith"on*trip`tor, n. (Surg.)

Defn: See Lithotriptor.

LITHOPHAGOUS
Li*thoph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) Eating or swallowing stones or gravel, as the ostrich.
(b) Eating or destroying stone; -- applied to various animals which
make burrows in stone, as many bivalve mollusks, certain sponges,
annelids, and sea urchins. See Lithodomus.

LITHOPHANE
Lith`o*phane, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr.

Defn: Porcelain impressed with figures which are made distinct by
transmitted light, -- as when hung in a window, or used as a lamp
shade.

LITHOPHOSPHOR
Lith"o*phos`phor, n. Etym: [Litho- + phosphor.]

Defn: A stone that becomes phosphoric by heat.

LITHOPHOSPHORIC
Lith`o*phos*phor"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to lithophosphor; becoming phosphoric by heat.

LITHOPHOTOGRAPHY
Lith`o*pho*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Litho- + photography.]

Defn: Same as Photolithography.

LITHOPHYLL
Lith"o*phyll, n. Etym: [Gr. lithophylle.]

Defn: A fossil leaf or impression of a leaf.

LITHOPHYSE
Lith"o*physe, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A spherulitic cavity often with concentric chambers, observed
in some volcanic rocks, as in rhyolitic lavas. It is supposed to be
produced by expanding gas, whence the name.

LITHOPHYTE
Lith"o*phyte, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. lithophyte.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hard, or stony, plantlike organism, as the gorgonians,
corals, and corallines, esp. those gorgonians having a calcareous
axis. All the lithophytes except the corallines are animals.

LITHOPHYTIC
Lith`o*phyt"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to lithophytes.

LITHOPHYTOUS
Li*thoph"y*tous, a.

Defn: Lithophytic.

LITHOSIAN
Li*tho"sian, n. Etym: [From NL. Lithosia, the typical genus, fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of various species of moths belonging to the family
Lithosidæ. Many of them are beautifully colored.

LITHOSPHERE
Lith"o*sphere, n.  [Litho- + sphere.] (Phys. Geog.)
 (a) The solid earth as distinguished from its fluid envelopes, the
hydrosphere and atmosphere.
 (b) The outer part of the solid earth, the portion undergoing change
through the gradual transfer of material by volcanic eruption, the
circulation of underground water, and the process of erosion and
deposition. It is, therefore, regarded as a third mobile envelope
comparable with the hydrosphere and atmosphere.

LITHOTINT
Lith"o*tint, n. Etym: [Litho- + tint.]

1. A kind of lithography by which the effect of a tinted drawing is
produced, as if made with India ink.

2. A picture produced by this process.

LITHOTOME
Lith"o*tome, n. Etym: [Gr. lithotome.]

1. A stone so formed by nature as to appear as if cut by art.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument used for cutting the bladder in operations for
the stone.

LITHOTOMIC; LITHOTOMICAL
Lith`o*tom"ic, Lith`o*tom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. lithotomique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or performed by, lithotomy.

LITHOTOMIST
Li*thot"o*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lithotomiste.]

Defn: One who performs the operation of cutting for stone in the
bladder, or one who is skilled in the operation.

LITHOTOMY
Li*thot"o*my, n. Etym: [L. lithotomia, Gr. lithotomie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation, art, or practice of cutting for stone in the
bladder.

LITHOTRIPSY
Lith"o*trip`sy, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. lithotripsie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of crushing a stone in the bladder with an
instrument called lithotriptor or lithotrite; lithotrity.

LITHOTRIPTIC
Lith`o*trip"tic, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Lithontriptic.

LITHOTRIPTIST
Lith"o*trip`tist, n.

Defn: One skilled in breaking and extracting stone in the bladder.

LITHOTRIPTOR
Lith"o*trip`tor, n. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for triturating the stone in the bladder; a
lithotrite.

LITHOTRITE; LITHOTRITOR
Lith"o*trite, Lith"o*tri"tor,Etym: [See Lithotrity.] (Surg.)

Defn: A lithotriptor.

LITHOTRITIST
Li*thot"ri*tist, n.

Defn: A lithotriptist.

LITHOTRITY
Li*thot"ri*ty, n. Etym: [Litho- + L. terere, tritum, to rub, grind.]
(Surg.)

Defn: The operation of breaking a stone in the bladder into small
pieces capable of being voided.

LITHOTYPE
Lith"o*type, n.

Defn: A kind of stereotype plate made by lithotypy; also, that which
in printed from it. See Lithotypy.

LITHOTYPE
Lith"o*type, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lithotyped; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lithotyping.]

Defn: To prepare for printing with plates made by the process of
lithotypy. See Lithotypy.

LITHOTYPIC
Lith`o*typ"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or produced by, lithotypy.

LITHOTYPY
Li*thot"y*py, n. Etym: [Litho- + -typy.]

Defn: The art or process of making a kind of hard, stereotypeplate,
by pressing into a mold, taken from a page of type or other matter, a
composition of gum shell-lac and sand of a fine quality, together
with a little tar and linseed oil, all in a heated state.

LITHOXYL
Li*thox`yl, n. Etym: [Written also lithoxyle.] Etym: [Litho- + Gr.
lithoxyle.]

Defn: Petrified wood. [Obs.]

LITHUANIAN
Lith`u*a"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lithuania (formerly a principality united
with Poland, but now Russian and Prussian territory).

LITHUANIAN
Lith`u*a"ni*an, n.

Defn: A native, or one of the people, of Lithuania; also, the
language of the Lithuanian people.

LITHY
Lith"y a. Etym: [See Lithe.]

Defn: Easily bent; pliable. Lithy tree (Bot.), a European shrub
(Viburnum Lantana); -- so named from its tough and flexible stem.

LITIGABLE
Lit"i*ga*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be litigated.

LITIGANT
Lit"i*gant, a. Etym: [L. litigans, -antis, p. pr. of litigare: cf. F.
litigant. See Litigate.]

Defn: Disposed to litigate; contending in law; engaged in a lawsuit;
as, the parties litigant. Ayliffe.

LITIGANT
Lit"i*gant, n.

Defn: A person engaged in a lawsuit.

LITIGATE
Lit"i*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Litigated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Litigating.] Etym: [See Litigation.]

Defn: To make the subject of a lawsuit; to contest in law; to
prosecute or defend by pleadings, exhibition of evidence, and
judicial debate in a court; as, to litigate a cause.

LITIGATE
Lit"i*gate, v. i.

Defn: To carry on a suit by judicial process.

LITIGATION
Lit`i*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. litigatio, fr. litigare to dispute,
litigate; lis, litis, dispute, lawsuit (OL. stlis) + agere to carry
on. See Agent.]

Defn: The act or process of litigating; a suit at law; a judicial
contest.

LITIGATOR
Lit"i*ga`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who litigates.

LITIGIOUS
Li*ti"gious, a. Etym: [L. litigiosus, fr. litigium dispute, quarrel,
fr. litigare: cf. F. litigieux. See Litigation.]

1. Inclined to judicial contest; given to the practice of contending
in law; guarrelsome; contentious; fond of litigation. " A
pettifogging attorney or a litigious client." Macaulay.
Soldiers find wars, and lawyers find out still Litigious men, who
guarrels move. Donne.

2. Subject to contention; disputable; controvertible; debatable;
doubtful; precarious. Shak.
No fences, parted fields, nor marks, nor bounds, Distinguished acres
of litigious grounds. Dryden.

3. Of or pertaining to legal disputes.
Nor brothers cite to the litigious bar. Young.

LITIGIOUSLY
Li*ti"gious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a litigious manner.

LITIGIOUSNESS
Li*ti"gious*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being litigious; disposition to engage in or carry
on lawsuits.

LITMUS
Lit"mus, n. Etym: [D. lakmoes; lak lacker + moes a thick preparation
of fruit, pap, prob. akin to E. meat: cf. G. lackmus. See Lac a
resinous substance.] (Chem.)

Defn: A dyestuff extracted from certain lichens (Roccella tinctoria,
Lecanora tartarea, etc.), as a blue amorphous mass which consists of
a compound of the alkaline carbonates with certain coloring matters
related to orcin and orcein.

Note: Litmus is used as a dye, and being turned red by acids and
restored to its blue color by alkalies, is a common indicator or test
for acidity and alkalinity. Litmus paper (Chem.), unsized paper
saturated with blue or red litmus, -- used in testing for acids or
alkalies.

LITOTES
Li"to*tes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A diminution or softening of statement for the sake of avoiding
censure or increasing the effect by contrast with the moderation
shown in the form of expression; as, " a citizen of no mean city,"
that is, of an illustrious city.

LITRANETER
Li*tran"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. li`tra + -meter. See Liter]

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity of liquids.

LITRE
Li"tre, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Same as Liter.

LITTER
Lit"ter, n. Etym: [F. litière, LL. lectaria, fr. L. lectus couch,
bed. See Lie to be prostrated, and cf. Coverlet.]

1. A bed or stretcher so arranged that a person, esp. a sick or
wounded person, may be easily carried in or upon it.
There is a litter ready; lay him in 't. Shak.

2. Straw, hay, etc., scattered on a floor, as bedding for animals to
rest on; also, a covering of straw for plants.
To crouch in litter of your stable planks. Shak.
Take off the litter from your kernel beds. Evelyn.

3. Things lying scattered about in a manner indicating slovenliness;
scattered rubbish.
Strephon, who found the room was void. Stole in, and took a strict
survey Of all the litter as it lay. Swift.

4. Disorder or untidiness resulting from scattered rubbish, or from
thongs lying about uncared for; as, a room in a state of litter.

5. The young brought forth at one time, by a sow or other multiparous
animal, taken collectively. Also Fig.
A wolf came to a sow, and very kindly offered to take care of her
litter. D. Estrange.
Reflect upon numerous litter of strange, senseless opinions that
crawl about the world. South.

LITTER
Lit"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Littered; p. pr. & vb. n. Littering.]

1. To supply with litter, as cattle; to cover with litter, as the
floor of a stall.
Tell them how they litter their jades. Bp. Hacke
For his ease, well littered was the floor. Dryden.

2. To put into a confused or disordered condition; to strew with
scattered articles; as, to litter a room.
The room with volumes littered round. Swift.

3. To give birth to; to bear; -- said of brutes, esp. those which
produce more than one at a birth, and also of human beings, in
abhorrence or contempt.
We might conceive that dogs were created blind, because we observe
they were littered so with us. Sir T. Browne.
The son that she did litter here, A freckled whelp hagborn. Shak.

LITTER
Lit"ter, v. i.

1. To be supplied with litter as bedding; to sleep or make one's bed
in litter. [R.]
The inn Where he and his horse littered. Habington.

2. To produce a litter.
A desert . . . where the she-wolf still littered. Macaulay.

LITTERATEUR
Lit`te`ra`teur", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: One who occupies himself with literature; a literary man; a
literatus. " Befriended by one kind-hearted littérateur after
another." C. Kingsley.

LITTERY
Lit"ter*y, a.

Defn: Covered or encumbered with litter; consisting of or
constituting litter.

LITTLE
Lit"tle, a. [The regular comparative of this word is wanting, its
place being supplied by less, or, rarely, lesser. See Lesser. For the
superlative least is used, the regular form, littlest, occurring very
rarely, except in some of the English provinces, and occasionally in
colloquial language. " Where love is great, the littlest doubts are
fear." Shak.] Etym: [OE. litel, lutel, AS. l, litel, l; akin to OS.
littil, D. luttel, LG. lütt, OHG. luzzil, MHG. lützel; and perh. to
AS. lytig deceitful, lot deceit, Goth. liuts deceitful, lut to
deceive; cf. also Icel. litill little, Sw. liten, Dan. liden, lille,
Goth. leitils, which appear to have a different root vowel.]

1. Small in size or extent; not big; diminutive; -- opposed to big or
large; as, a little body; a little animal; a little piece of ground;
a little hill; a little distance; a little child.
He sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not for the press,
because he was little of stature. Luke xix. 3.

2. Short in duration; brief; as, a little sleep.
Best him enough: after a little time, I'll beat him too. Shak.

3. Small in quantity or amount; not much; as, a little food; a little
air or water.
Conceited of their little wisdoms, and doting upon their own fancies.
Barrow.

4. Small in dignity, power, or importance; not great; insignificant;
contemptible.
When thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not made the head
of the tribes I Sam. xv. 17.

5. Small in force or efficiency; not strong; weak; slight;
inconsiderable; as, little attention or exertion;little effort;
little care or diligence.
By sad experiment I know How little weight my words with thee can
find. Milton.

6. Small in extent of views or sympathies; narrow; shallow;
contracted; mean; illiberal; ungenerous.
The long-necked geese of the world that are ever hissing dispraise,
Because their natures are little. Tennyson.
Little chief. (Zoöl.) See Chief hare.
 -- Little finger, the fourth and smallest finger of the hand.
 -- Little go (Eng. Universities), a public examination about the
middle of the course, which as less strict and important than the
final one; -- called also smalls. Cf. Great go, under Great.
Thackeray.
 -- Little hours (R. C. Ch.), the offices of prime, tierce, sext, and
nones. Vespers and compline are sometimes included.
 -- Little ones, young children.
The men, and the women, and the little ones. Deut. ii. 34.

LITTLE
Lit"tle, n.

1. That which is little; a small quantity, amount, space, or the
like.
Much was in little writ. Dryden.
There are many expressions, which carrying with them no clear ideas,
are like to remove but little of my ignorance. Locke.

2. A small degree or scale; miniature. " His picture in little."
Shak.
A little, to or in a small degree; to a limited extent; somewhat; for
a short time. " Stay a little." Shak.
The painter flattered her a little. Shak.
-- By little and little, or Little by little, by slow degrees;
piecemeal; gradually.

LITTLE
Lit"tle, adv.

Defn: In a small quantity or degree; not much; slightly; somewhat; --
often with a preceding it. " The poor sleep little." Otway.

LITTLE-EASE
Lit"tle-ease`, n.

Defn: An old slang name for the pillory, stocks, etc., of a
prison.[Eng.] Latimer.

LITTLENESS
Lit"tle*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being little; as, littleness of size,
thought, duration, power, etc.

Syn.
 -- Smallness; slightness; inconsiderableness; narrowness;
insignificance; meanness; penuriousness.

LITTORAL
Lit"to*ral, a. Etym: [L. littoralis, litoralis, from littus, litus,
the seashore: cf. F. littoral.]

1. Of or pertaining to a shore, as of the sea.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Inhabiting the seashore, esp. the zone between high-water and
low-water mark.

LITTORINA
Lit"to*ri"na, n. Etym: [NL. See Littoral.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small pectinibranch mollusks, having thick spiral
shells, abundant between tides on nearly all rocky seacoasts. They
feed on seaweeds. The common periwinkle is a well-known example. See
Periwinkle.

LITTRESS
Lit"tress, n.

Defn: A smooth kind of cartridge paper used for making cards. Knight.

LITUATE
Lit"u*ate, a. Etym: [See Lituus.] (Bot.)

Defn: Forked, with the points slightly curved outward.

LITUIFORM
Lit"u*i*form, a. Etym: [Lituus + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a lituus; like a lituite.

LITUITE
Lit"u*ite, n. Etym: [See Lituus.] (Paleon.)

Defn: Any species of ammonites of the genus Lituites. They are found
in the Cretaceous formation.

LITURATE
Lit"u*rate, a. Etym: [L. lituratus, p. p. of liturare to erase, fr.
litura a blur.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having indistinct spots, paler at their margins.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Spotted, as if from abrasions of the surface.

LITURGIC; LITURGICAL
Li*tur"gic, Li*tur"gic*al,Etym: [Gr. liturgique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, of or the nature of, a liturgy; of or pertaining
to public prayer and worship. T. Warton.

LITURGICALLY
Li*tur"gic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a liturgy.

LITURGICS
Li*tur"gics, n.

Defn: The science of worship; history, doctrine, and interpretation
of liturgies.

LITURGIOLOGIST
Li*tur`gi*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in liturgiology.

LITURGIOLOGY
Li*tur`gi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Liturgy + -logy.]

Defn: The science treating of liturgical matters; a treatise on, or
description of, liturgies. Shipley.

LITURGIST
Lit"ur*gist, n.

Defn: One who favors or adheres strictly to a liturgy. Milton.

LITURGY
Lit"ur*gy, n.; pl. Liturgies. Etym: [F. liturgie, LL. liturgia, Gr.
Lay, a., and Work.]

Defn: An established formula for public worship, or the entire ritual
for public worship in a church which uses prescribed forms; a
formulary for public prayer or devotion. In the Roman Catholic Church
it includes all forms and services in any language, in any part of
the world, for the celebration of Mass.

LITUUS
Lit"u*us, n.; pl. Litui. Etym: [L.]

1. (Rom. Antig.)
(a) A curved staff used by the augurs in quartering the heavens.
(b) An instrument of martial music; a kind of trumpet of a somewhat
curved form and shrill note.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A spiral whose polar equation is r2th = a; that is, a curve the
square of whose radius vector varies inversely as the angle which the
radius vector makes with a given line.

LIVABLE
Liv"a*ble, a.

1. Such as can be lived.

2. Such as in pleasant to live in; fit or suitable to live in.
[Colloq.]
A more delightful or livable region is not easily to be found. T.
Arnold.

LIVE
Live, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lived; p. pr. & vb. n. Living.] Etym: [OE.
liven, livien, AS. libban, lifian; akin to OS. libbian, D. leven, G.
leben, OHG. lebn, Dan. leve, Sw. lefva, Icel. lifa to live, to be
left, to remain, Goth. liban to live; akin to E. leave to forsake,
and life, Gr. lip to anoint, smear; -- the first sense prob. was, to
cleave to, stick to; hence, to remain, stay; and hence, to live.]

1. To be alive; to have life; to have, as an animal or a plant, the
capacity of assimilating matter as food, and to be dependent on such
assimilation for a continuance of existence; as, animals and plants
that live to a great age are long in reaching maturity.
Thus saith the Lord God unto these bones; Behold, I will . . . lay
sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with
skin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live. Ezek. xxxvii. 5, 6.

2. To pass one's time; to pass life or time in a certain manner, as
to habits, conduct, or circumstances; as, to live in ease or
affluence; to live happily or usefully.
O death, how bitter is the remembrance of thee to a man that liveth
at rest in his possessions! Ecclus. xli. 1.

3. To make one's abiding place or home; to abide; to dwell; to
reside.
Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years. Gen. xlvii. 28.

4. To be or continue in existence; to exist; to remain; to be
permanent; to last; -- said of inanimate objects, ideas, etc.
Men's evil manners live in brass; their virtues We write in water.
Shak.

5. To enjoy or make the most of life; to be in a state of happiness.
What greater curse could envious fortune give Than just to die when I
began to live Dryden.

6. To feed; to subsist; to be nourished or supported; -- with on; as,
horses live on grass and grain.

7. To have a spiritual existence; to be quickened, nourished, and
actuated by divine influence or faith.
The just shall live by faith. Gal. iii. ll.

8. To be maintained in life; to acquire a livelihood; to subsist; --
with on or by; as, to live on spoils.
Those who live by labor. Sir W. Temple.

9. To outlast danger; to float; -- said of a ship, boat, etc.; as, no
ship could live in such a storm.
A strong mast that lived upon the sea. Shak.
To live out, to be at service; to live away from home as a servant.
[U. S.] -- To live with. (a) To dwell or to be a lodger with. (b) To
cohabit with; to have intercourse with, as male with female.

LIVE
Live, v. t.

1. To spend, as one's life; to pass; to maintain; to continue in,
constantly or habitually; as, to live an idle or a useful life.

2. To act habitually in conformity with; to practice.
To live the Gospel. Foxe.
To live down, to live so as to subdue or refute; as, to live down
slander.

LIVE
Live, a. Etym: [Abbreviated from alive. See Alive, Life.]

1. Having life; alive; living; not dead.
If one man's ox hurt another's, that he die; then they shall sell the
live ox, and divide the money of it. Ex. xxi. 35.

2. Being in a state of ignition; burning; having active properties;
as, a live coal; live embers. " The live ether." Thomson.

3. Full of earnestness; active; wide awake; glowing; as, a live man,
or orator.

4. Vivid; bright. " The live carnation." Thomson.

5. (Engin.)

Defn: Imparting power; having motion; as, the live spindle of a
lathe. Live birth, the condition of being born in such a state that
acts of life are manifested after the extrusion of the whole body.
Dunglison.
 -- Live box, a cell for holding living objects under microscopical
examination. P. H. Gosse.
 -- Live feathers, feathers which have been plucked from the living
bird, and are therefore stronger and more elastic.
 -- Live gang. (Sawing) See under Gang.
 -- Live grass (Bot.), a grass of the genus Eragrostis.
 -- Live load (Engin.), a suddenly applied load; a varying load; a
moving load; as a moving train of cars on a bridge, or wind pressure
on a roof. Live oak (Bot.), a species of oak (Quercus virens),
growing in the Southern States, of great durability, and highly
esteemed for ship timber. In California the Q. chrysolepis and some
other species are also called live oaks.
 -- Live ring (Engin.), a circular train of rollers upon which a
swing bridge, or turntable, rests, and which travels around a
circular track when the bridge or table turns.
 -- Live steam , steam direct from the boiler, used for any purpose,
in distinction from exhaust steam.
 -- Live stock, horses, cattle, and other domestic animals kept on a
farm. whole body.

LIVE
Live, n.

Defn: Life. [Obs.] Chaucer. On live, in life; alive. [Obs.] See
Alive. Chaucer.

LIVED
Lived, a.

Defn: Having life; -- used only in composition; as, long-lived;
short-lived.

LIVE-FOREVER
Live"-for*ev`er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Sedum Telephium) with fleshy leaves, which has extreme
powers of resisting drought; garden ox-pine.

LIVELIHED
Live"li*hed, n.

Defn: See Livelihood. [Obs.]

LIVELIHOOD
Live"li*hood, n. Etym: [OE. livelode, liflode, prop., course of life,
life's support, maintenance, fr. AS. lif life + lad road, way,
maintenance. Confused with livelihood liveliness. See Life, and
Lode.]

Defn: Subsistence or living, as dependent on some means of support;
support of life; maintenance.
The opportunities of gaining an honest livelihood. Addison.
It is their profession and livelihood to get their living by
practices for which they deserve to forfeit their lives. South.

LIVELIHOOD
Live"li*hood, n. Etym: [Lively + -hood.]

Defn: Liveliness; appearance of life. [Obs.] Shak.

LIVELILY
Live"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lively manner. [Obs.] Lamb.

LIVELINESS
Live"li*ness, n. Etym: [From Lively.]

1. The quality or state of being lively or animated; sprightliness;
vivacity; animation; spirit; as, the liveliness of youth, contrasted
with the gravity of age. B. Jonson.

2. An appearance of life, animation, or spirit; as, the liveliness of
the eye or the countenance in a portrait.

3. Briskness; activity; effervescence, as of liquors.

Syn.
 -- Sprightliness; gayety; animation; vivacity; smartness; briskness;
activity.
 -- Liveliness, Gayety, Animation, Vivacity. Liveliness is an
habitual feeling of life and interest; gayety refers more to a
temporary excitement of the animal spirits; animation implies a
warmth of emotion and a corresponding vividness of expressing it,
awakened by the presence of something which strongly affects the
mind; vivacity is a feeling between liveliness and animation, having
the permanency of the one, and, to some extent, the warmth of the
other. Liveliness of imagination; gayety of heart; animation of
countenance; vivacity of gesture or conversation.

LIVELODE
Live"lode`, n. Etym: [See 1st Livelihood.]

Defn: Course of life; means of support; livelihood. [Obs.]

LIVELONG
Live"long`, a. Etym: [For lifelong. Cf. Lifelong.]

1. Whole; entire; long in passing; -- used of time, as day or night,
in adverbial phrases, and usually with a sense of tediousness.
The obscure bird Clamored the livelong night. Shak.
How could she sit the livelong day, Yet never ask us once to play
Swift.

2. Lasting; durable. [Obs.]
Thou hast built thyself a livelong monument. Milton.

LIVELY
Live"ly, a. [Compar. Livelier; superl. Liveliest.] Etym: [For lifely.
Cf. Lifelike.]

1. Endowed with or manifesting life; living.
Chaplets of gold and silver resembling lively flowers and leaves.
Holland.

2. Brisk; vivacious; active; as, a lively youth.
But wherefore comes old Manoa in such haste, With youthful steps Much
livelier than erewhile He seems. Milton.

3. Gay; airy; animated; spirited.
From grave to gay, from lively to severe. Pope.

4. Representing life; lifelike. [Obs.]
I spied the lively picture of my father. Massinger.

5. Bright; vivid; glowing; strong; vigorous.
The colors of the prism are manifestly more full, intense, and lively
that those of natural bodies. Sir I. Newton.
His faith must be not only living, but lively too. South.
Lively stones (Script.), saints, as being quickened by the Spirit,
and active in holiness.

Syn.
 -- Brisk; vigorous; quick; nimble; smart; active; alert; sprightly;
animated; spirited; prompt; earnest; strong; energetic; vivid;
vivacious; blithe; gleeful; airy; gay; jocund.

LIVELY
Live"ly, adv.

1. In a brisk, active, or animated manner; briskly; vigorously.
Hayward.

2. With strong resemblance of life. [Obs.]
Thou counterfeitest most lively. Shak.

LIVER
Liv"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, lives.
And try if life be worth the liver's care. Prior.

2. A resident; a dweller; as, a liver in Brooklyn.

3. One whose course of life has some marked characteristic (expressed
by an adjective); as, a free liver. Fast liver, one who lives in an
extravagant and dissipated way.
 -- Free liver, Good liver, one given to the pleasures of the table.
 -- Loose liver, a person who lives a somewhat dissolute life.

LIVER
Liv"er, n. Etym: [AS. lifer; akin to D. liver, G. leber, OHG. lebara,
Icel. lifr, Sw. lefver, and perh. to Gr. live, v.] (Anat.)

Defn: A very large glandular and vascular organ in the visceral
cavity of all vertebrates.

Note: Most of the venous blood from the alimentary canal passes
through it on its way back to the heart; and it secretes the bile,
produces glycogen, and in other ways changes the blood which passes
through it. In man it is situated immediately beneath the diaphragm
and mainly on the right side. See Bile, Digestive, and Glycogen. The
liver of invertebrate animals is usually made up of cæcal tubes, and
differs materially, in form and function, from that of vertebrates.
Floating liver. See Wandering liver, under Wandering.
 -- Liver of antimony, Liver of sulphur. (Old Chem.) See Hepar.
 -- Liver brown, Liver color, the color of liver, a dark, reddish
brown.
 -- Liver shark (Zoöl.), a very large shark (Cetorhinus maximus),
inhabiting the northern coasts both of Europe and North America. It
sometimes becomes forty feet in length, being one of the largest
sharks known; but it has small simple teeth, and is not dangerous. It
is captured for the sake of its liver, which often yields several
barrels of oil. It has gill rakers, resembling whalebone, by means of
which it separates small animals from the sea water. Called also
basking shark, bone shark, hoemother, homer, and sailfish.
 -- Liver spots, yellowish brown patches or spots of chloasma.

LIVER
Liv"er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The glossy ibis (Ibis falcinellus); -- said to have given its
name to the city of Liverpool.

LIVER-COLORED
Liv"er-col`ored, a.

Defn: Having a color like liver; dark reddish brown.

LIVERED
Liv"ered, a.

Defn: Having (such) a liver; used in composition; as, white-livered.

LIVER-GROWN
Liv"er-grown`, a.

Defn: Having an enlarged liver. Dunglison.

LIVERIED
Liv"er*ied, a.

Defn: Wearing a livery. See Livery, 3.
The liveried servants wait. Parnell.

LIVERING
Liv"er*ing, n.

Defn: A kind of pudding or sausage made of liver or pork. [Obs.]
Chapman.

LIVERLEAF
Liv"er*leaf`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Liverwort.

LIVERWORT
Liv"er*wort`, n. (Bot.)

1. A ranunculaceous plant (Anemone Hepatica) with pretty white or
bluish flowers and a three-lobed leaf; -- called also squirrel cups.

2. A flowerless plant (Marchantia polymorpha), having an irregularly
lobed, spreading, and forking frond.

Note: From this plant many others of the same order (Hepaticæ) have
been vaguely called liverworts, esp. those of the tribe
Marchantiaceæ. See Illust. of Hepatica.

LIVERY
Liv"er*y, n.; pl. Liveries. Etym: [OE. livere, F. livrée, formerly, a
gift of clothes made by the master to his servants, prop., a thing
delivered, fr. livrer to deliver, L. liberare to set free, in LL., to
deliver up. See Liberate.]

1. (Eng. Law)
(a) The act of delivering possession of lands or tenements.
(b) The writ by which possession is obtained.

Note: It is usual to say, livery of seizin, which is a feudal
investiture, made by the delivery of a turf, of a rod, or twig, from
the feoffor to the feoffee. In the United States, and now in Great
Britain, no such ceremony is necessary, the delivery of a deed being
sufficient.

2. Release from wardship; deliverance.
It concerned them first to sue out their livery from the unjust
wardship of his encroaching prerogative. Milton.

3. That which is delivered out statedly or formally, as clothing,
food, etc.; especially:
(a) The uniform clothing issued by feudal superiors to their
retainers and serving as a badge when in military service.
(b) The peculiar dress by which the servants of a nobleman or
gentleman are distinguished; as, a claret-colored livery.
(c) Hence, also, the peculiar dress or garb appropriated by any
association or body of persons to their own use; as, the livery of
the London tradesmen, of a priest, of a charity school, etc.; also,
the whole body or company of persons wearing such a garb, and
entitled to the privileges of the association; as, the whole livery
of London.
A Haberdasher and a Carpenter, A Webbe, a Dyer, and a Tapicer, And
they were clothed all in one livery Of a solempne and a gret
fraternite. Chaucer.
From the periodical deliveries of these characteristic articles of
servile costume (blue coats) came our word livery. De Quincey.

(d) Hence, any characteristic dress or outward appearance. " April's
livery." Sir P. Sidney.
Now came still evening on, and twilight gray Had in her sober livery
all things clad. Milton.

(e) An allowance of food statedly given out; a ration, as to a
family, to servants, to horses, etc.
The emperor's officers every night went through the town from house
to house whereat any English gentleman did repast or lodge, and
served their liveries for all night: first, the officers brought into
the house a cast of fine manchet [white bread], and of silver two
great post, and white wine, and sugar. Cavendish.

(f) The feeding, stabling, and care of horses for compensation;
boarding; as, to keep one's horses at livery.
What livery is, we by common use in England know well enough, namely,
that is, allowance of horse meat, as to keep horses at livery, the
which word, I guess, is derived of livering or delivering forth their
nightly food. Spenser.
It need hardly be observed that the explanation of livery which
Spenser offers is perfectly correct, but . . . it is no longer
applied to the ration or stated portion of food delivered at stated
periods. Trench.

(g) The keeping of horses in readiness to be hired temporarily for
riding or driving; the state of being so kept.
Pegasus does not stand at livery even at the largest establishment in
Moorfields. Lowell.

4. A low grade of wool. Livery gown, the gown worn by a liveryman in
London.

LIVERY
Liv"er*y, v. t.

Defn: To clothe in, or as in, livery. Shak.

LIVERYMAN
Liv"er*y*man, n.; pl. Liverymen (.

1. One who wears a livery, as a servant.

2. A freeman of the city, in London, who, having paid certain fees,
is entitled to wear the distinguishing dress or livery of the company
to which he belongs, and also to enjoy certain other privileges, as
the right of voting in an election for the lord mayor, sheriffs,
chamberlain, etc.

3. One who keeps a livery stable.

LIVERY STABLE
Liv"er*y sta`ble

Defn: . A stable where horses are kept for hire, and where stabling
is provided. See Livery, n., 3 (e) (f) & (g).

LIVES
Lives, n.;

Defn: pl. of Life.

LIVES
Lives, a. & adv. Etym: [Orig. a genitive sing. of life.]

Defn: Alive; living; with life. [Obs.] " Any lives creature."
Chaucer.

LIVID
Liv"id, a. Etym: [L. lividus, from livere to be of a blush color, to
be black and blue: cf. F. livide.]

Defn: Black and blue; grayish blue; of a lead color; discolored, as
flesh by contusion. Cowper.
There followed no carbuncles, no purple or livid spots, the mass of
the blood not being tainted. Bacon.

LIVIDITY
Li*vid"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lividité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being livid.

LIVIDNESS
Liv"id*ness, n.

Defn: Lividity. Walpole.

LIVING
Liv"ing, a. Etym: [From Live, v. i.]

1. Being alive; having life; as, a living creature.

2. Active; lively; vigorous; -- said esp. of states of the mind , and
sometimes of abstract things; as, a living faith; a living principle.
" Living hope. " Wyclif.

3. Issuing continually from the earth; running; flowing; as, a living
spring; -- opposed to stagnant.

4. Producing life, action, animation, or vigor; quickening. " Living
light." Shak.

5. Ignited; glowing with heat; burning; live.
Then on the living coals wine they pour. Dryden.
Living force. See Vis viva, under Vis.
 -- Living gale (Naut.), a heavy gale. Living rock or stone, rock in
its native or original state or location; rock not quarried. " I now
found myself on a rude and narrow stairway, the steps of which were
cut of the living rock." Moore.
 -- The living, those who are alive, or one who is alive.

LIVING
Liv"ing, n.

1. The state of one who, or that which, lives; lives; life;
existence. "Health and living." Shak.

2. Manner of life; as, riotous living; penurious living; earnest
living. " A vicious living." Chaucer.

3. Means of subsistence; sustenance; estate.
She can spin for her living. Shak.
He divided unto them his living. Luke xv. 12.

4. Power of continuing life; the act of living, or living
comfortably.
There is no living without trusting somebody or other in some cases.
L' Estrange.

5. The benefice of a clergyman; an ecclesiastical charge which a
minister receives. [Eng.]
He could not get a deanery, a prebend, or even a living Macaulay.
Livng room, the room most used by the family.

LIVINGLY
Liv"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a living state. Sir T. Browne.

LIVINGNESS
Liv"ing*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being alive; possession of energy or
vigor; animation; quickening.

LIVING PICTURE
Liv"ing pic"ture.

Defn: A tableau in which persons take part; also, specif., such a
tableau as imitating a work of art.

LIVONIAN
Li*vo"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Livonia, a district of Russia near the
Baltic Sea.

LIVONIAN
Li*vo"ni*an, n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Livonia; the language (allied to
the Finnish) of the Livonians.

LIVOR
Li"vor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Malignity. [P.] Burton.

LIVRAISON
Li`vrai`son", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. liberatio a setting free, in LL.,
a delivering up. See Liberation.]

Defn: A part of a book or literary composition printed and delivered
by itself; a number; a part.

LIVRE
Li"vre, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. libra a pound of twelve ounces. Cf.
Lira.]

Defn: A French money of account, afterward a silver coin equal to 20
sous. It is not now in use, having been superseded by the franc.

LIXIVIAL
Lix*iv"i*al, a. Etym: [L. lixivius, fr. lix ashes, lye ashes, lye:
cf. F. lixiviel.]

1. Impregnated with, or consisting of, alkaline salts extracted from
wood ashes; impregnated with a salt or salts like a lixivium. Boyle.

2. Of the color of lye; resembling lye.

3. Having the qualities of alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes.
Lixivial salts (Old Chem.), salts which are obtained by passing water
through ashes, or by pouring it on them.

LIXIVIATE; LIXIVITED
Lix*iv"i*ate, Lix*iv"i*`ted, a. Etym: [From Lixivium.]

1. Of or pertaining to lye or lixivium; of the quality of alkaline
salts.

2. Impregnated with salts from wood ashes. Boyle.

LIXIVIATE
Lix*iv"i*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lixiviated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lixiviating.]

Defn: To subject to a washing process for the purpose of separating
soluble material from that which is insoluble; to leach, as ashes,
for the purpose of extracting the alkaline substances.

LIXIVIATION
Lix*iv`i*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lixiviation.]

Defn: Lixiviating; the process of separating a soluble substance form
one that is insoluble, by washing with some solvent, as water;
leaching.

LIXIVIOUS
Lix*iv"i*ous, a.

Defn: See Lixivial.

LIXIVIUM
Lix*iv"i*um, n. Etym: [L. lixivium, lixivia. See Lixivial.]

Defn: A solution of alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes; hence,
any solution obtained by lixiviation.

LIXT
Lixt, obs.

Defn: 2d pers. sing. pres. of Lige, to lie, to tell lies, --
contracted for ligest. Chaucer.

LIZA
Li"za, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American white mullet (Mugil curema).

LIZARD
Liz"ard, n. Etym: [OE. lesarde, OF. lesarde, F. lézard, L. lacerta,
lacertus. Cf. Alligator, Lacerta.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of the numerous species of reptiles belonging to the
order Lacertilia; sometimes, also applied to reptiles of other
orders, as the Hatteria.

Note: Most lizards have an elongated body, with four legs, and a long
tail; but there are some without legs, and some with a short, thick
tail. Most have scales, but some are naked; most have eyelids, but
some do not. The tongue is varied in form and structure. In some it
is forked, in others, as the chameleons, club-shaped, and very
extensible. See Amphisbæna, Chameleon, Gecko, Gila monster, Horned
toad, Iguana, and Dragon, 6.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A piece of rope with thimble or block spliced into one or both
of the ends. R. H. Dana, Ir.

3. A piece of timber with a forked end, used in dragging a heavy
stone, a log, or the like, from a field. Lizard fish (Zoöl.), a
marine scopeloid fish of the genus Synodus, or Saurus, esp. S.
foetens of the Southern United States and West Indies; -- called also
sand pike.
 -- Lizard snake (Zoöl.), the garter snake (Eutænia sirtalis).
 -- Lizard stone (Min.), a kind of serpentine from near Lizard Point,
Cornwall, England, -- used for ornamental purposes.

LIZARD'S TAIL
Liz"ard's tail`. (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial plant of the genus Saururus (S. cernuus), growing
in marshes, and having white flowers crowded in a slender terminal
spike, somewhat resembling in form a lizard's tail; whence the name.
Gray.

LLAMA
Lla"ma, n. Etym: [Peruv.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American ruminant (Auchenia llama), allied to the
camels, but much smaller and without a hump. It is supposed to be a
domesticated variety of the guanaco. It was formerly much used as a
beast of burden in the Andes.

LLANDEILO GROUP
Llan*dei"lo group`. (Geol.)

Defn: A series of strata in the lower Silurian formations of Great
Britain; -- so named from Llandeilo in Southern Wales. See Chart of
Geology.

LLANERO
Lla*ne"ro, n. Etym: [Sp. Amer.]

Defn: One of the inhabitants of the llanos of South America.

LLANO
Lla"no, n.; pl. Llanos. Etym: [Sp., plain even, level. See Plain.]

Defn: An extensive plain with or without vegetation. [Spanish
America]

LLOYD'S
Lloyd's, n.

1. An association of underwriters and others in London, for the
collection and diffusion of marine intelligence, the insurance,
classification, registration, and certifying of vessels, and the
transaction of business of various kinds connected with shipping.

2. A part of the Royal Exchange, in London, appropriated to the use
of underwriters and insurance brokers; -- called also Lloyd's Rooms.

Note: The name is derived from Lloyd's Coffee House, in Lombard
Street, where there were formerly rooms for the same purpose. The
name Lloyd or Lloyd's has been taken by several associations, in
different parts of Europe, established for purposes similar to those
of the original association. Lloyd's agents, persons employed in
various parts of the world, by the association called Lloyd's, to
serve its interests.
 -- Lloyd's list, a publication of the latest news respecting
shipping matters, with lists of vessels, etc., made under the
direction of Lloyd's. Brande & C.
 -- Lloyd's register, a register of vessels rated according to their
quality, published yearly.

LO
Lo, interj. Etym: [OE. lo, low; perh. akin to E. look, v.]

Defn: Look; see; behold; observe. " Lo, here is Christ." Matt. xxiv.
23. " Lo, we turn to the Gentiles." Acts xiii. 46.

LOACH
Loach, n. Etym: [OE. loche, F. loche.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several small, fresh-water, cyprinoid fishes of the
genera Cobitis, Nemachilus, and allied genera, having six or more
barbules around the mouth. They are found in Europe and Asia. The
common European species (N. barbatulus) is used as a food fish.

LOAD
Load, n. Etym: [OE. lode load, way; properly the same word as lode,
but confused with lade, load, v. See Lade, Lead, v., Lode.]

1. A burden; that which is laid on or put in anything for conveyance;
that which is borne or sustained; a weight; as, a heavy load.
He might such a load To town with his ass carry. Gower.

2. The quantity which can be carried or drawn in some specified way;
the contents of a cart, barrow, or vessel; that which will constitute
a cargo; lading.

3. That which burdens, oppresses, or grieves the mind or spirits; as,
a load of care. " A . . . load of guilt." Ray. " Our life's a load."
Dryden.

4. A particular measure for certain articles, being as much as may be
carried at one time by the conveyance commonly used for the article
measured; as, a load of wood; a load of hay; specifically, five
quarters.

5. The charge of a firearm; as, a load of powder.

6. Weight or violence of blows. [Obs.] Milton.

7. (Mach.)

Defn: The work done by a steam engine or other prime mover when
working. Load line, or Load water line (Naut.), the line on the
outside of a vessel indicating the depth to which it sinks in the
water when loaded.

Syn.
 -- Burden; lading; weight; cargo. See Burden.

LOAD
Load, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Loaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Loading. Loaden is
obsolete, and laden belongs to lade.]

1. To lay a load or burden on or in, as on a horse or in a cart; to
charge with a load, as a gun; to furnish with a lading or cargo, as a
ship; hence, to add weight to, so as to oppress or embarrass; to heap
upon.
I strive all in vain to load the cart. Gascoigne.
I have loaden me with many spoils. Shak.
Those honors deep and broad, wherewith Your majesty loads our house.
Shak.

2. To adulterate or drug; as, to load wine. [Cant]

3. To magnetize.[Obs.] Prior. Loaded dice, dice with one side made
heavier than the others, so that the number on the opposite side will
come up oftenest.

LOADER
Load"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, loads; a mechanical contrivance for
loading, as a gun.

LOADING
Load"ing, n.

1. The act of putting a load on or into.

2. A load; cargo; burden. Shak.

LOADMANAGE; LODEMANAGE
Load"man*age, Lode"man*age, n.

Defn: Pilotage; skill of a pilot or loadsman. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOADSMAN; LODESMAN
Loads"man, Lodes"man, n. Etym: [Load, lode + man. See Lode.]

Defn: A pilot. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOADSTAR; LODESTAR
Load"star`, Lode"star`, n. Etym: [Load, lode + star. See Lode.]

Defn: A star that leads; a guiding star; esp., the polestar; the
cynosure. Chaucer. " Your eyes are lodestars." Shak.
The pilot can no loadstar see. Spenser.

LOADSTONE; LODESTONE
Load"stone`, Lode"stone, n. Etym: [Load, lode + stone.] (Min.)

Defn: A piece of magnetic iron ore possessing polarity like a
magnetic needle. See Magnetite.

LOAF
Loaf, n.; pl. Loaves. Etym: [OE. lof, laf, AS. hlaf; akin to G. laib,
OHG. hleip, Icel. hleifr, Goth. hlaifs, Russ. khlieb', Lith. klëpas.
Cf. Lady, Lammas, Lord.]

Defn: Any thick lump, mass, or cake; especially, a large regularly
shaped or molded mass, as of bread, sugar, or cake. Bacon. Loaf
sugar, refined sugar that has been formed into a conical loaf in a
mold.

LOAF
Loaf, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Loafed; p. pr. & vb. n. Loafing.] Etym: [G.
laufen to run, Prov. G. loofen. See Leap.]

Defn: To spend time in idleness; to lounge or loiter about. " Loafing
vagabonds." W. Black.

LOAF
Loaf, v. t.

Defn: To spend in idleness; -- with away; as, to loaf time away.

LOAFER
Loaf"er, n. Etym: [G. läufer a runner, Prov. G. laufer, lofer, fr.
laufen to run. See Leap.]

Defn: One who loafs; a lazy lounger. Lowell.

LOAM
Loam, n. Etym: [AS. lam; akin to D. leem, G. lehm, and E. lime. See
4th Lime.]

1. A kind of soil; an earthy mixture of clay and sand, with organic
matter to which its fertility is chiefly due.
We wash a wall of loam; we labor in vain. Hooker.

2. (Founding)

Defn: A mixture of sand, clay, and other materials, used in making
molds for large castings, often without a pattern. Loam mold
(Founding), a mold made with loam. See Loam, n., 2.
 -- Loam molding, the process or business of making loam molds. Loam
plate, an iron plate upon which a section of a loam mold rests, or
from which it is suspended.
 -- Loam work, loam molding or loam molds.

LOAM
Loam, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Loamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Loaming.]

Defn: To cover, smear, or fill with loam.

LOAMY
Loam"y, a.

Defn: Consisting of loam; partaking of the nature of loam; resembling
loam. Bacon.

LOAN
Loan, n. Etym: [See Lawn.]

Defn: A loanin. [Scot.]

LOAN
Loan, n. Etym: [OE. lone, lane, AS. lan, læn, fr. león to lend; akin
to D. leen loan, fief, G. lehen fief, Icel. lan, G. leihen to lend,
OHG. lihan, Icel. lji, Goth. leihwan, L. linquere to leave, Gr. ric.
Delinquent, Eclipse, Eleven, Ellipse, Lend, License, Relic.]

1. The act of lending; a lending; permission to use; as, the loan of
a book, money, services.

2. That which one lends or borrows, esp. a sum of money lent at
interest; as, he repaid the loan. Loan office. (a) An office at which
loans are negotiated, or at which the accounts of loans are kept, and
the interest paid to the lender. (b) A pawnbroker's shop.

LOAN
Loan, n. t. [imp. & p. p. Loaned; p. pr. & vb. n. Loaning.]

Defn: To lend; -- sometimes with out. Kent.
By way of location or loaning them out. J. Langley (1644).

LOANABLE
Loan"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be lent; available for lending; as, loanable funds;
-- used mostly in financial business and writings.

LOANIN; LOANING
Loan"in, Loan"ing, n. Etym: [From Scotch loan, E. lawn.]

Defn: An open space between cultivated fields through which cattle
are driven, and where the cows are sometimes milked; also, a lane.
[Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

LOANMONGER
Loan"mon`ger, n.

Defn: A dealer in, or negotiator of, loans.
The millions of the loanmonger. Beaconsfield.

LOATH
Loath, a. Etym: [OE. looth, loth, AS. la hostile, odious; akin to OS.
l, G. leid, Icel. lei, Sw. led, G. leiden to suffer, OHG. lidan to
suffer, go, cf. AS. li to go, Goth. leipan, and E. lead to guide.]

1. Hateful; odious; disliked. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Filled with disgust or aversion; averse; unwilling; reluctant; as,
loath to part.
Full loth were him to curse for his tithes. Chaucer
.
Why, then, though loath, yet must I be content. Shak.

LOATHE
Loathe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Loathed; p. pr. & vb. n. Loathing.] Etym:
[AS. la to hate. See Loath.]

1. To feel extreme disgust at, or aversion for.
Loathing the honeyed cakes, I Ionged for bread. Cowley.

2. To dislike greatly; to abhor; to hate.
The secret which I loathe. Waller.
She loathes the vital sir. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To hate; abhor; detest; abominate. See Hate.

LOATHE
Loathe, v. i.

Defn: To feel disgust or nausea. [Obs.]

LOATHER
Loath"er, n.

Defn: One who loathes.

LOATHFUL
Loath"ful, a.

1. Full of loathing; hating; abhorring. "Loathful eyes." Spenser.

2. Causing a feeling of loathing; disgusting.
Above the reach of loathful, sinful lust. Spenser.

LOATHING
Loath"ing, n.

Defn: Extreme disgust; a feeling of aversion, nausea, abhorrence, or
detestation.
The mutual fear and loathing of the hostile races. Macaulay.

LOATHINGLY
Loath"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With loathing.

LOATHLINESS
Loath"li*ness, n.

Defn: Loathsomeness. [Obs.]

LOATHLY
Loath"ly, a. Etym: [AS. la.]

Defn: Loathsome. [Obs.] " Loathly mouth." Spenser.

LOATHLY
Loath"ly, adv.

1. Unwillingly; reluctantly.
This shows that you from nature loathly stray. Donne.

2. ( [Obs.]
With dust and blood his locks were loathly dight. Fairfax.

LOATHNESS
Loath"ness, n.

Defn: Unwillingness; reluctance.
A general silence and loathness to speak. Bacon.

LOATHSOME
Loath"some, a.

Defn: Fitted to cause loathing; exciting disgust; disgusting.
The most loathsome and deadly forms of infection. Macaulay.
-- Loath"some*ly. adv.
 -- Loath"some*ness, n.

LOATHY
Loath"y, a.

Defn: Loathsome. [Obs.] Spenser.

LOAVES
Loaves, n.;

Defn: pl. of Loaf.

LOB
Lob, n. Etym: [W. llob an unwieldy lump, a dull fellow, a blockhead.
Cf. Looby, Lubber.]

1. A dull, heavy person. " Country lobs." Gauden.

2. Something thick and heavy.

LOB
Lob, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lobbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lobbing.]

Defn: To let fall heavily or lazily.
And their poor jades Lob down their heads. Shak.
To lob a ball (Lawn Tennis), to strike a ball so as to send it up
into the air.

LOB
Lob, v. t. (Mining)

Defn: See Cob, v. t.

LOB
Lob, n. Etym: [Dan. lubbe.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European pollock.

LOBAR
Lo"bar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a lobe; characterized by, or like, a lobe
or lobes.

LOBATE; LOBATED
Lo"bate, Lo"ba*ted, a. Etym: [See Lobe.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Consisting of, or having, lobes; lobed; as, a lobate leaf.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) Having lobes; -- said of the tails of certain fishes having the
integument continued to the bases of the fin rays.
(b) Furnished with membranous flaps, as the toes of a coot. See
Illust. (m) under Aves.

LOBATELY
Lo"bate*ly, adv.

Defn: As a lobe; so as to make a lobe; in a lobate manner.

LOBBISH
Lob"bish, a.

Defn: Like a lob; consisting of lobs. Sir. P. Sidney.

LOBBY
Lob"by, n.; pl. Lobbies. Etym: [LL. lobium, lobia, laubia, a covered
portico fit for walking, fr. OHG.louba, G. laube, arbor. See Lodge.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A passage or hall of communication, especially when large
enough to serve also as a waiting room. It differs from an
antechamber in that a lobby communicates between several rooms, an
antechamber to one only; but this distinction is not carefully
preserved.

2. That part of a hall of legislation not appropriated to the
official use of the assembly; hence, the persons, collectively, who
frequent such a place to transact business with the legislators; any
persons, not members of a legislative body, who strive to influence
its proceedings by personal agency. [U.S.]

3. (Naut.)

Defn: An apartment or passageway in the fore part of an old-fashioned
cabin under the quarter-deck.

4. (Agric.)

Defn: A confined place for cattle, formed by hedges. trees, or other
fencing, near the farmyard. Lobby member, a lobbyist. [Humorous cant,
U. S.]

LOBBY
Lob"by, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lobbied; p. pr. & vb. n. Lobbying.]

Defn: To address or solicit members of a legislative body in the
lobby or elsewhere, with the purpose to influence their votes.[U.S.]
Bartlett.

LOBBY
Lob"by, v. t.

Defn: To urge the adoption or passage of by soliciting members of a
legislative body; as, to lobby a bill. [U.S.]

LOBBYIST
Lob"by*ist, n.

Defn: A member of the lobby; a person who solicits members of a
legislature for the purpose of influencing legislation. [U.S.]

LOBCOCK
Lob"cock`, n.

Defn: A dull, sluggish person; a lubber; a lob. [Low]

LOBE
Lobe, n. Etym: [F. lobe, Gr.

Defn: Any projection or division, especially one of a somewhat
rounded form; as:
(a) (Bot.) A rounded projection or division of a leaf. Gray.
(b)(Zoöl.)

Defn: A membranous flap on the sides of the toes of certain birds, as
the coot.
(c) (Anat.) A round projecting part of an organ, as of the liver,
lungs, brain, etc. See Illust. of Brain.
(b) (Mach.) The projecting part of a cam wheel or of a non-circular
gear wheel. Lobe of the ear, the soft, fleshy prominence in which the
human ear terminates below. See. Illust. of Ear.

LOBED
Lobed, a.

Defn: Having lobes; lobate.

LOBEFOOT
Lobe"foot`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird having lobate toes; esp., a phalarope.

LOBE-FOOTED
Lobe"-foot`ed, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Lobiped.

LOBELET
Lobe"let, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A small lobe; a lobule.

LOBELIA
Lo*be"li*a, n. Etym: [NL. So called from Lobel, botanist to King
James I.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, including a great number of species. Lobelia
inflata, or Indian tobacco, is an annual plant of North America,
whose leaves contain a poisonous white viscid juice, of an acrid
taste. It has often been used in medicine as an emetic, expectorant,
etc. L. cardinalis is the cardinal flower, remarkable for the deep
and vivid red color of its flowers.

LOBELIACEOUS
Lo*be`li*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants of which the
genus Lobelia is the type.

LOBELIN
Lo*be"lin, n. (Med.)

Defn: A yellowish green resin from Lobelia, used as an emetic and
diaphoretic.

LOBELINE
Lo*be"line, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous narcotic alkaloid extracted from the leaves of
Indian tobacco (Lobelia inflata) as a yellow oil, having a
tobaccolike taste and odor.

LOBIPED
Lo"bi*ped, a. Etym: [Lobe + L. pes, pedis, foot.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having lobate toes, as a coot.

LOBLOLLY
Lob"lol`ly, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Gruel; porridge; -- so called among seamen. Loblolly bay
(Bot.), an elegant white-flowered evergreen shrub or small tree, of
the genus Gordonia (G. Lasianthus), growing in the maritime parts of
the Southern United States. Its bark is sometimes used in tanning.
Also, a similar West Indian tree (Laplacea hæmatoxylon).
 -- Loblolly boy, a surgeon's attendant on shipboard. Smollett.
 -- Loblolly pine (Bot.), a kind of pitch pine found from Delaware
southward along the coast; old field pine (Pinus Tæda). Also, P.
Bahamensis, of the West Indies.
 -- Loblolly tree (Bot.), a name of several West Indian trees, having
more or less leathery foliage, but alike in no other respect; as
Pisonia subcordata, Cordia alba, and Cupania glabra.

LOBOSA
Lo*bo"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Lobe.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Rhizopoda, in which the pseudopodia are thick and
irregular in form, as in the Amoeba.

LOBSCOUSE
Lob"scouse`, n. Etym: [Written also lobscourse from which lobscouse
is corrupted.] Etym: [Lob + course.] (Naut.)

Defn: A combination of meat with vegetables, bread, etc., usually
stewed, sometimes baked; an olio.

LOBSIDED
Lob"sid`ed, a.

Defn: See Lopsided.

LOBSPOUND
Lobs"pound`, n. Etym: [Lob + pound a prison.]

Defn: A prison. [Obs.] Hudibras.

LOBSTER
Lob"ster, n. Etym: [AS. loppestre, lopystre prob., corrupted fr. L.
locusta a marine shellfish, a kind of lobster, a locust. Cf. Locust.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any large macrurous crustacean used as food, esp. those of the
genus Homarus; as the American lobster (H. Americanus), and the
European lobster (H. vulgaris). The Norwegian lobster (Nephrops
Norvegicus) is similar in form. All these have a pair of large
unequal claws. The spiny lobsters of more southern waters, belonging
to Palinurus, Panulirus, and allied genera, have no large claws. The
fresh-water crayfishes are sometimes called lobsters. Lobster
caterpillar (Zoöl.), the caterpillar of a European bombycid moth
(Stauropus fagi); -- so called from its form. Lobster louse (Zoöl.),
a copepod crustacean (Nicothoë astaci) parasitic on the gills of the
European lobster.

LOBULAR
Lob"u*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lobulaire.]

Defn: Like a lobule; pertaining to a lobule or lobules.

LOBULATE; LOBULATED
Lob"u*late, Lob"u*la`ted, a.

Defn: Made up of, or divided into, lobules; as, a lobulated gland.

LOBULE
Lob"ule, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lobule, dim. of lobe. See Lobe.]

Defn: A small lobe; a subdivision of a lobe. Lobule of the ear.
(Anat.) Same as Lobe of the ear.

LOBULETTE
Lob`u*lette", n. Etym: [Dim. of lobule.] (Anat.)

Defn: A little lobule, or subdivision of a lobule.

LOBWORM
Lob"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lugworm.

LOCAL
Lo"cal, a. Etym: [L. localis, fr. locus place: cf. F. local. See
Lieu, Locus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a particular place, or to a definite region
or portion of space; restricted to one place or region; as, a local
custom.
Gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name. Shak.
Local actions (Law), actions such as must be brought in a particular
county, where the cause arises; -- distinguished from transitory
actions.
 -- Local affection (Med.), a disease or ailment confined to a
particular part or organ, and not directly affecting the system.
 -- Local attraction (Magnetism), an attraction near a compass,
causing its needle to deviate from its proper direction, especially
on shipboard.
 -- Local battery (Teleg.), the battery which actuates the recording
instruments of a telegraphic station, as distinguished from the
battery furnishing a current for the line.
 -- Local circuit (Teleg.), the circuit of the local battery.
 -- Local color. (a) (Paint.) The color which belongs to an object,
and is not caused by accidental influences, as of reflection, shadow,
etc. (b) (Literature) Peculiarities of the place and its inhabitants
where the scene of an action or story is laid.
 -- Local option, the right or obligation of determining by popular
vote within certain districts, as in each county, city, or town,
whether the sale of alcoholic beverages within the district shall be
allowed.

LOCAL
Lo"cal, n.

1. (Railroad)

Defn: A train which receives and deposits passengers or freight along
the line of the road; a train for the accommodation of a certain
district. [U.S.]

2. On newspaper cant, an item of news relating to the place where the
paper is published. [U.S.]

LOCALE
Lo`cale", n. Etym: [F. local.]

1. A place, spot, or location.

2. A principle, practice, form of speech, or other thing of local
use, or limited to a locality.

LOCALISM
Lo"cal*ism, n.

1. The state or quality of being local; affection for a particular
place.

2. A method of speaking or acting peculiar to a certain district; a
local idiom or phrase.

LOCALITY
Lo*cal"i*ty, n.; pl. Localitiees (. Etym: [L. localitas: cf. F.
localité.]

1. The state, or condition, of belonging to a definite place, or of
being contained within definite limits.
It is thought that the soul and angels are devoid of quantity and
dimension, and that they have nothing to do with grosser locality.
Glanvill.

2. Position; situation; a place; a spot; esp., a geographical place
or situation, as of a mineral or plant.

3. Limitation to a county, district, or place; as, locality of trial.
Blackstone.

4. (Phren.)

Defn: The perceptive faculty concerned with the ability to remember
the relative positions of places.

LOCALIZATION
Lo`cal*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. localisation.]

Defn: Act of localizing, or state of being localized. Cerebral
localization (Physiol.), the localization of the control of special
functions, as of sight or of the various movements of the body, in
special regions of the brain.

LOCALIZE
Lo"cal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Localized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Localizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. localiser. See Local.]

Defn: To make local; to fix in, or assign to, a definite place. H.
Spencer. Wordsworth.

LOCALLY
Lo"cal*ly, adv.

Defn: With respect to place; in place; as, to be locally separated or
distant.

LOCATE
Lo"cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Located; p. pr. & vb. n. Locating.]
Etym: [L. locatus, p. p. of locare to place, fr. locus place. See
Local.]

1. To place; to set in a particular spot or position.
The captives and emigrants whom he brought with him were located in
the trans-Tiberine quarter. B. F. Westcott.

2. To designate the site or place of; to define the limits of; as, to
locate a public building; to locate a mining claim; to locate (the
land granted by) a land warrant.
That part of the body in which the sense of touch is located. H.
Spencer.

LOCATE
Lo"cate, v. i.

Defn: To place one's self; to take up one's residence; to settle.
[Colloq.]

LOCATION
Lo*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. locatio, fr. locare.]

1. The act or process of locating.

2. Situation; place; locality. Locke.

3. That which is located; a tract of land designated in place. [U.S.]

4. (Law)
(a) (Civil Law) A leasing on rent.
(b) (Scots Law) A contract for the use of a thing, or service of a
person, for hire. Wharton. (c) (Amer. Law)

Defn: The marking out of the boundaries, or identifying the place or
site of, a piece of land, according to the description given in an
entry, plan, map, etc. Burrill. Bouvier.

LOCATIVE
Loc"a*tive, a. (Gram.)

Defn: Indicating place, or the place where, or wherein; as, a
locative adjective; locative case of a noun.
 -- n.

Defn: The locative case.

LOCATOR
Lo"ca*tor, n.

Defn: One who locates, or is entitled to locate, land or a mining
claim. [U.S.]

LOCELLATE
Lo*cel"late, a. Etym: [L. locellus a compartment, dim. of locus a
place.] (Bot.)

Defn: Divided into secondary compartments or cells, as where one
cavity is separated into several smaller ones.

LOCH
Loch, n. Etym: [Gael. & Olr. loch. See Lake of water.]

Defn: A lake; a bay or arm of the sea. [Scot.]

LOCH
Loch, n. Etym: [F. looch, Ar. la', an electuary, or any medicine
which may be licked or sucked, fr. la' to lick.] (Med.)

Defn: A kind of medicine to be taken by licking with the tongue; a
lambative; a lincture.

LOCHABER AX; LOCHABER AXE
Loch*a"ber ax", Loch*a"ber axe". Etym: [So called from Lochaber, in
Scotland.]

Defn: A weapon of war, consisting of a pole armed with an axhead at
its end, formerly used by the Scotch Highlanders.

LOCHAGE
Loch"age, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: An officer who commanded a company; a captain. Mitford.

LOCHAN
Loch"an, n. Etym: [Gael. See 1st Loch.]

Defn: A small lake; a pond. [Scot.]
A pond or lochan rather than a lake. H. Miller.

LOCHE
Loche, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Loach.

LOCHIA
Lo*chi"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The discharge from the womb and vagina which follows
childbirth.

LOCHIAL
Lo"chi*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lochial.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the lochia.

LOCK
Lock, n. Etym: [AS. locc; akin to D. lok, G. locke, OHG. loc, Icel.
lokkr, and perh. to Gr.

Defn: A tuft of hair; a flock or small quantity of wool, hay, or
other like substance; a tress or ringlet of hair.
These gray locks, the pursuivants of death. Shak.

LOCK
Lock, n. Etym: [AS. loc inclosure, an inclosed place, the fastening
of a door, fr. lucan to lock, fasten; akin to OS. lukan (in comp.),
D. luiken, OHG. luhhan, Icel. l, Goth. lukan (in comp.); cf. Skr. ruj
to break. Cf. Locket.]

1. Anything that fastens; specifically, a fastening, as for a door, a
lid, a trunk, a drawer, and the like, in which a bolt is moved by a
key so as to hold or to release the thing fastened.

2. A fastening together or interlacing; a closing of one thing upon
another; a state of being fixed or immovable.
Albemarle Street closed by a lock of carriages. De Quincey.

3. A place from which egress is prevented, as by a lock. Dryden.

4. The barrier or works which confine the water of a stream or canal.

5. An inclosure in a canal with gates at each end, used in raising or
lowering boats as they pass from one level to another; -- called also
lift lock.

6. That part or apparatus of a firearm by which the charge is
exploded; as, a matchlock, flintlock, percussion lock, etc.

7. A device for keeping a wheel from turning.

8. A grapple in wrestling. Milton. Detector lock, a lock containing a
contrivance for showing whether it as has been tampered with.
 -- Lock bay (Canals), the body of water in a lock chamber.
 -- Lock chamber, the inclosed space between the gates of a canal
lock.
 -- Lock nut. See Check nut, under Check.
 -- Lock plate, a plate to which the mechanism of a gunlock is
attached.
 -- Lock rail (Arch.), in ordinary paneled doors, the rail nearest
the lock. Lock rand (Masonry), a range of bond stone. Knight.
 -- Mortise lock, a door lock inserted in a mortise.
 -- Rim lock, a lock fastened to the face of a door, thus differing
from a mortise lock.

LOCK
Lock, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Locked; p. pr. & vb. n. Locking.]

1. To fasten with a lock, or as with a lock; to make fast; to prevent
free movement of; as, to lock a door, a carriage wheel, a river, etc.

2. To prevent ingress or access to, or exit from, by fastening the
lock or locks of; -- often with up; as, to lock or lock up, a house,
jail, room, trunk. etc.

3. To fasten in or out, or to make secure by means of, or as with,
locks; to confine, or to shut in or out -- often with up; as, to lock
one's self in a room; to lock up the prisoners; to lock up one's
silver; to lock intruders out of the house; to lock money into a
vault; to lock a child in one's arms; to lock a secret in one's
breast.

4. To link together; to clasp closely; as, to lock arms. " Lock hand
in hand." Shak.

5. (Canals)

Defn: To furnish with locks; also, to raise or lower (a boat) in a
lock.

6. (Fencing)

Defn: To seize, as the sword arm of an antagonist, by turning the
left arm around it, to disarm him.

LOCK
Lock, v. i.

Defn: To become fast, as by means of a lock or by interlacing; as,
the door locks close.
When it locked none might through it pass. Spenser.
To lock into, to fit or slide into; as, they lock into each other.
Boyle.

LOCKAGE
Lock"age, n.

1. Materials for locks in a canal, or the works forming a lock or
locks.

2. Toll paid for passing the locks of a canal.

3. Amount of elevation and descent made by the locks of a canal.
The entire lock will be about fifty feet. De Witt Clinton.

LOCK-DOWN
Lock"-down`, n.

Defn: A contrivance to fasten logs together in rafting; -- used by
lumbermen. [U.S.]

LOCKED-JAW
Locked"-jaw`, n.

Defn: See Lockjaw.

LOCKEN
Lock"en, obs. p. p.

Defn: of Lock. Chaucer.

LOCKEN
Lock"en, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The globeflower (Trollius).

LOCKER
Lock"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, locks.

2. A drawer, cupboard, compartment, or chest, esp. one in a ship,
that may be closed with a lock. Chain locker (Naut.), a compartment
in the hold of a vessel, for holding the chain cables.
 -- Davy Jones's locker, or Davy's locker. See Davy Jones.
 -- Shot locker, a compartment where shot are deposited. Totten.

LOCKET
Lock"et, n. Etym: [F. loquet latch, dim. of OF. loc latch, lock; of
German origin. See Lock a fastening.]

1. A small lock; a catch or spring to fasten a necklace or other
ornament.

2. A little case for holding a miniature or lock of hair, usually
suspended from a necklace or watch chain.

LOCK HOSPITAL
Lock" hos"pi*tal

Defn: . A hospital for the treatment of venereal diseases. [Eng.]

LOCKJAW
Lock"jaw`, n. (Med.)

Defn: A contraction of the muscles of the jaw by which its motion is
suspended; a variety of tetanus.

LOCKLESS
Lock"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of a lock.

LOCKMAN
Lock"man, n.

Defn: A public executioner. [Scot.]

LOCKOUT
Lock"out`, n.

Defn: The closing of a factory or workshop by an employer, usually in
order to bring the workmen to satisfactory terms by a suspension of
wages.

LOCKRAM
Lock"ram, n. Etym: [F. locrenan, locronan; from Locronan, in
Brittany, where it is said to have been made.]

Defn: A kind of linen cloth anciently used in England, originally
imported from Brittany. Shak.

LOCKSMITH
Lock"smith`, n.

Defn: An artificer whose occupation is to make or mend locks.

LOCK STEP
Lock" step`

Defn: . A mode of marching by a body of men going one after another
as closely as possible, in which the leg of each moves at the same
time with the corresponding leg of the person before him.

LOCK STITCH
Lock" stitch`

Defn: . A peculiar sort of stitch formed by the locking of two
threads together, as in the work done by some sewing machines. See
Stitch.

LOCKUP
Lock"up`, n.

Defn: A place where persons under arrest are temporarily locked up; a
watchhouse.

LOCK-WEIR
Lock"-weir`, n.

Defn: A waste weir for a canal, discharging into a lock chamber.

LOCKY
Lock"y, a.

Defn: Having locks or tufts. [R.] Sherwood.

LOCO
Lo"co, adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A direction in written or printed music to return to the proper
pitch after having played an octave higher.

LOCO
Lo"co, n. Etym: [Sp. loco insane.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Astragalus Hornii) growing in the Southwestern United
States, which is said to poison horses and cattle, first making them
insane. The name is also given vaguely to several other species of
the same genus. Called also loco weed.

LOCO DISEASE
Loco disease. (Veter.)

Defn: A chronic nervous affection of cattle, horses, and sheep,
caused by eating the loco weed and characterized by a slow, measured
gait, high step, glassy eyes with defective vision, delirium, and
gradual emaciation.

LOCOFOCO
Lo`co*fo"co, n. Etym: [Of uncertain etymol.; perh. for L. loco foci
instead of fire; or, according to Bartlett, it was called so from a
self-lighting cigar, with a match composition at the end, invented in
1834 by John Marck of New York, and called by him locofoco cigar, in
imitation of the word locomotive, which by the uneducated was
supposed to mean, self-moving.]

1. A friction match. [U.S.]

2. A nickname formerly given to a member of the Democratic party.
[U.S.]

Note: The name was first applied, in 1834, to a portion of the
Democratic party, because, at a meeting in Tammany Hall, New York, in
which there was great diversity of sentiment, the chairman left his
seat, and the lights were extinguished, for the purpose of dissolving
the meeting; when those who were opposed to an adjournment produced
locofoco matches, rekindled the lights, continued the meeting, and
accomplished their object.

LOCOMOTION
Lo`co*mo"tion, n. Etym: [L. locus place + motio motion: cf. F.
locomotion. See Local, and Motion.]

1. The act of moving from place to place. " Animal locomotion."
Milton.

2. The power of moving from place to place, characteristic of the
higher animals and some of the lower forms of plant life.

LOCOMOTIVE
Lo"co*mo`tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. locomotif. See Locomotion.]

1. Moving from place to place; changing place, or able to change
place; as, a locomotive animal.

2. Used in producing motion; as, the locomotive organs of an animal.

LOCOMOTIVE
Lo"co*mo`tive, n.

Defn: A locomotive engine; a self-propelling wheel carriage,
especially one which bears a steam boiler and one or more steam
engines which communicate motion to the wheels and thus propel the
carriage, -- used to convey goods or passengers, or to draw wagons,
railroad cars, etc. See Illustration in Appendix. Consolidation
locomotive, a locomotive having four pairs of connected drivers.
 -- Locomotive car, a locomotive and a car combined in one vehicle; a
dummy engine. [U.S.] -- Locomotive engine. Same as Locomotive, above.
 -- Mogul locomotive. See Mogul.

LOCOMOTIVENESS; LOCOMOTIVITY
Lo"co*mo`tive*ness, Lo`co*mo*tiv"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F.
locomotivité.]

Defn: The power of changing place.

LOCOMOTOR
Lo`co*mo"tor, a. Etym: [See Locomotion.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to movement or locomotion. Locomotor ataxia,
or Progressive locomotor ataxy (Med.), a disease of the spinal cord
characterized by peculiar disturbances of gait, and difficulty in
coördinating voluntary movements.

LOCULAMENT
Loc"u*la*ment, n. Etym: [L. loculamentum case, box, fr. loculus a
compartment, dim. of locus place.] (Bot.)

Defn: The cell of a pericarp in which the seed is lodged.

LOCULAR
Loc"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. locularis.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of or relating to the cell or compartment of an ovary, etc.; in
composition, having cells; as trilocular. Gray.

LOCULATE
Loc"u*late, a. Etym: [L. loculatus.] (Bot.)

Defn: Divided into compartments.

LOCULE
Loc"ule, n. Etym: [Cf. F. locule. See Loculus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A little hollow; a loculus.

LOCULICIDAL
Loc"u*li*ci`dal, a. Etym: [L. loculus cell + caedere to cut: cf. F.
loculicide.] (Bot.)

Defn: Dehiscent through the middle of the back of each cell; -- said
of capsules.

LOCULOSE; LOCULOUS
Loc"u*lose`, Loc"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. loculosus. See Loculament.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Divided by internal partitions into cells, as the pith of the
pokeweed.

LOCULUS
Loc"u*lus, n.; pl. Loculi. Etym: [L., little place, a compartment.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the spaces between the septa in the Anthozoa.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the compartments of a several-celled ovary; loculament.

LOCUM TENENS
Lo"cum te"nens. Etym: [L., holding the place; locus place + tenens,
p. pr. of tenere to hold. Cf. Lieutenant.]

Defn: A substitute or deputy; one filling an office for a time.

LOCUS
Lo"cus, n.; pl. Loci, & Loca. Etym: [L., place. Cf. Allow, Couch,
Lieu, Local.]

1. A place; a locality.

2. (Math.)

Defn: The line traced by a point which varies its position according
to some determinate law; the surface described by a point or line
that moves according to a given law. Plane locus, a locus that is a
straight line, or a circle.
 -- Solid locus, a locus that is one of the conic sections.

LOCUST
Lo"cust, n. Etym: [L. locusta locust, grasshopper. Cf. Lobster.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of long-winged, migratory,
orthopterous insects, of the family Acrididæ, allied to the
grasshoppers; esp., (Edipoda, or Pachytylus, migratoria, and Acridium
perigrinum, of Southern Europe, Asia, and Africa. In the United
States the related species with similar habits are usually called
grasshoppers. See Grasshopper.

Note: These insects are at times so numerous in Africa and the south
of Asia as to devour every green thing; and when they migrate, they
fly in an immense cloud. In the United States the harvest flies are
improperly called locusts. See Cicada. Locust beetle (Zoöl.), a
longicorn beetle (Cyllene robiniæ), which, in the larval state, bores
holes in the wood of the locust tree. Its color is brownish black,
barred with yellow. Called also locust borer.
 -- Locust bird (Zoöl.) the rose-colored starling or pastor of India.
See Pastor.
 -- Locust hunter (Zoöl.), an African bird; the beefeater.

2. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.)

Defn: The locust tree. See Locust Tree (definition, note, and
phrases). Locust bean (Bot.), a commercial name for the sweet pod of
the carob tree.

LOCUSTA
Lo*cus"ta, n. Etym: [NL.: cf. locuste.] (Bot.)

Defn: The spikelet or flower cluster of grasses. Gray.

LOCUSTELLA
Lo`cus*tel"la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. locusta a locust.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European cricket warbler.

LOCUSTIC
Lo*cus"tic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the locust; -- formerly used to
designate a supposed acid.

LOCUSTING
Lo"cust*ing, p. a.

Defn: Swarming and devastating like locusts. [R.] Tennyson.

LOCUST TREE
Lo"cust tree`. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large North American tree of the genus Robinia (R.
Pseudacacia), producing large slender racemes of white, fragrant,
papilionaceous flowers, and often cultivated as an ornamental tree.
In England it is called acacia.

Note: The name is also applied to other trees of different genera,
especially to those of the genus Hymenæa, of which H. Courbaril is a
lofty, spreading tree of South America; also to the carob tree
(Ceratonia siliqua), a tree growing in the Mediterranean region.
Honey locust tree (Bot.), a tree of the genus Gleditschia ) G.
triacanthus), having pinnate leaves and strong branching thorns; --
so called from a sweet pulp found between the seeds in the pods.
Called also simply honey locust.
 -- Water locust tree (Bot.), a small swamp tree (Gleditschia
monosperma), of the Southern United States.

LOCUTION
Lo*cu"tion, n. Etym: [L. locutio, fr. loqui to speak: cf. F.
locution. ]

Defn: Speech or discourse; a phrase; a form or mode of expression. "
Stumbling locutions." G. Eliot.
I hate these figures in locution, These about phrases forced by
ceremony. Marston.

LOCUTORY
Loc"u*to*ry, n.

Defn: A room for conversation; especially, a room in monasteries,
where the monks were allowed to converse.

LODDE
Lod"de, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The capelin.

LODE
Lode, n. Etym: [AS. lad way, journey, fr. li\'eban to go. See Lead to
guide, and cf. Load a burden.]

1. A water course or way; a reach of water.
Down that long, dark lode . . . he and his brother skated home in
triumph. C. Kingsley.

2. (Mining)

Defn: A metallic vein; any regular vein or course, whether metallic
or not.

LODEMANAGE
Lode"man*age, n. Etym: [OE. lodemenage. Chaucer.]

Defn: Pilotage. [Obs.]

LODE-SHIP
Lode"-*ship`, n.

Defn: An old name for a pilot boat.

LODESMAN
Lodes"man, n.

Defn: Same as Loadsman. [Obs.]

LODESTAR
Lode"star`, n.

Defn: Same as Loadstar.

LODESTONE
Lode"stone`, n. (Min.)

Defn: Same as Loadstone.

LODGE
Lodge, n. Etym: [OE. loge, logge, F. loge, LL. laubia porch, gallery,
fr. OHG. louba, G. laube, arbor, bower, fr. lab foliage. See Leaf,
and cf. Lobby, Loggia.]

1. A shelter in which one may rest; as: (a) A shed; a rude cabin; a
hut; as, an Indian's lodge. Chaucer.
Their lodges and their tentis up they gan bigge [to build]. Robert of
Brunne.
O for a lodge in some vast wilderness! Cowper.

(b) A small dwelling house, as for a gamekeeper or gatekeeper of an
estate. Shak.
(c) A den or cave.
(d) The meeting room of an association; hence, the regularly
constituted body of members which meets there; as, a masonic lodge.
(c) The chamber of an abbot, prior, or head of a college.

2. (Mining)

Defn: The space at the mouth of a level next the shaft, widened to
permit wagons to pass, or ore to be deposited for hoisting; -- called
also platt. Raymond.

3. A collection of objects lodged together.
The Maldives, a famous lodge of islands. De Foe.

4. A family of North American Indians, or the persons who usually
occupy an Indian lodge, -- as a unit of enumeration, reckoned from
four to six persons; as, the tribe consists of about two hundred
lodges, that is, of about a thousand individuals. Lodge gate, a park
gate, or entrance gate, near the lodge. See Lodge, n., 1 (b).

LODGE
Lodge, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lodged; p. pr. & vb. n. Lodging.]

1. To rest or remain a lodge house, or other shelter; to rest; to
stay; to abide; esp., to sleep at night; as, to lodge in York Street.
Chaucer.
Stay and lodge by me this night. Shak.
Something holy lodges in that breast. Milton
.

2. To fall or lie down, as grass or grain, when overgrown or beaten
down by the wind. Mortimer.

3. To come to a rest; to stop and remain; as, the bullet lodged in
the bark of a tree.

LODGE
Lodge, v. t. Etym: [OE. loggen, OF. logier, F. loger. See Lodge, n. ]

1. To give shelter or rest to; especially, to furnish a sleeping
place for; to harbor; to shelter; hence, to receive; to hold.
Every house was proud to lodge a knight. Dryden.
The memory can lodge a greater stone of images that all the senses
can present at one time. Cheyne.

2. To drive to shelter; to track to covert.
The deer is lodged; I have tracked her to her covert. Addison.

3. To deposit for keeping or preservation; as, the men lodged their
arms in the arsenal.

4. To cause to stop or rest in; to implant.
He lodged an arrow in a tender breast. Addison.

5. To lay down; to prostrate.
Though bladed corn be lodged, and trees blown down. Shak.
To lodge an information, to enter a formal complaint.

LODGEABLE
Lodge"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. logeable.]

1. That may be or can be lodged; as, so many persons are not
lodgeable in this village.

2. Capable of affording lodging; fit for lodging in. [R.] " The
lodgeable area of the earth." Jeffrey.

LODGED
Lodged, a. (Her.)

Defn: Lying down; -- used of beasts of the chase, as couchant is of
beasts of prey.

LODGEMENT
Lodge"ment, n.

Defn: See Lodgment.

LODGER
Lodg"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, lodges; one who occupies a hired room
in another's house.

LODGING
Lodg"ing, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, lodges.

2. A place of rest, or of temporary habitation; esp., a sleeping
apartment; -- often in the plural with a singular meaning. Gower.
Wits take lodgings in the sound of Bow. Pope.

3. Abiding place; harbor; cover.
Fair bosom . . . the lodging of delight. Spenser.
Lodging house, a house where lodgings are provided and let.
 -- Lodging room, a room in which a person lodges, esp. a hired room.

LODGMENT
Lodg"ment, n. [Written also lodgement.] Etym: [Cf. F. logement. See
Lodge, v.]

1. The act of lodging, or the state of being lodged.
Any particle which is of size enough to make a lodgment afterwards in
the small arteries. Paley.

2. A lodging place; a room. [Obs.]

3. An accumulation or collection of something deposited in a place or
remaining at rest.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: The occupation and holding of a position, as by a besieging
party; an instrument thrown up in a captured position; as, to effect
a lodgment.

LODICULE
Lod"i*cule, n. Etym: [L. lodicula. dim, of lodix, lodicis, a
coverlet: cf. F. lodicule.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the two or three delicate membranous scales which are
next to the stamens in grasses.

LOELLINGITE
Loel"ling*ite, n. Etym: [So called from Lölling, in Austria.] (Min.)

Defn: A tin-white arsenide of iron, isomorphous with arsenopyrite.

LOESS
Loess, n. Etym: [G. löss.] (Geol.)

Defn: A quaternary deposit, usually consisting of a fine yellowish
earth, on the banks of the Rhine and other large rivers.

LOEVEN'S LARVA
Loev"en's lar"va. Etym: [Named after the Swedish zoölogist, S. F.
Löven, who discovered it.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The peculiar larva of Polygordius. See Polygordius.

LOFFE
Loffe, v. i.

Defn: To laugh. [Obs.] Shak.

LOFT
Loft, n. Etym: [Icel. lopt air, heaven, loft, upper room; akin to AS.
lyft air, G. luft, Dan. loft loft, Goth. luftus air. Cf. Lift, v. &
n. ]

Defn: That which is lifted up; an elevation. Hence, especially:
(a) The room or space under a roof and above the ceiling of the
uppermost story.
(b) A gallery or raised apartment in a church, hall, etc.; as, an
organ loft.
(c) A floor or room placed above another; a story.
Eutychus . . . fell down from the third loft. Acts xx. 9.
On loft, aloft; on high. Cf. Onloft. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOFT
Loft, a.

Defn: Lofty; proud. [R. & Obs.] Surrey.

LOFTER
Loft"er, n. (Golf)

Defn: An iron club used in lofting the ball; -- called also lofting
iron.

LOFTILY
Loft"i*ly, adv. Etym: [From Lofty.]

Defn: In a lofty manner or position; haughtily.

LOFTINESS
Loft"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being lofty.

LOFTING IRON
Loft"ing iron. (Golf)

Defn: Same as Lofter.

LOFTY
Loft"y, a. [Compar. Loftier; superl. Loftiest.] Etym: [From Loft.]

1. Lifted high up; having great height; towering; high.
See lofty Lebanon his head advance. Pope.

2. Fig.: Elevated in character, rank, dignity, spirit, bearing,
language, etc.; exalted; noble; stately; characterized by pride;
haughty.
The high and lofty One, that inhabiteth eternity. Is. lvii. 15.
Lofty and sour to them that loved him not. Shak.
Himself to sing, and build the lofty rhyme. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Tall; high; exalted; dignified; stately; majestic; sublime;
proud; haughty. See Tall.

LOG
Log, n. Etym: [Heb. log.]

Defn: A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing 2.37 gills. W. H. Ward.

LOG
Log, n. Etym: [Icel. lag a felled tree, log; akin to E. lie. See Lie
to lie prostrate.]

1. A bulky piece of wood which has not been shaped by hewing or
sawing.

2. Etym: [Prob. the same word as in sense 1; cf. LG. log, lock, Dan.
log, Sw. logg.] (Naut.)

Defn: An apparatus for measuring the rate of a ship's motion through
the water.

Note: The common log consists of the log-chip, or logship, often
exclusively called the log, and the log line, the former being
commonly a thin wooden quadrant of five or six inches radius, loaded
with lead on the arc to make it float with the point up. It is
attached to the log line by cords from each corner. This line is
divided into equal spaces, called knots, each bearing the same
proportion to a mile that half a minute does to an hour. The line is
wound on a reel which is so held as to let it run off freely. When
the log is thrown, the log-chip is kept by the water from being drawn
forward, and the speed of the ship is shown by the number of knots
run out in half a minute. There are improved logs, consisting of a
piece of mechanism which, being towed astern, shows the distance
actually gone through by the ship, by means of the revolutions of a
fly, which are registered on a dial plate.

3. Hence: The record of the rate of ship's speed or of her daily
progress; also, the full nautical record of a ship's cruise or
voyage; a log slate; a log book.

4. A record and tabulated statement of the work done by an engine, as
of a steamship, of the coal consumed, and of other items relating to
the performance of machinery during a given time.

5. (Mining)

Defn: A weight or block near the free end of a hoisting rope to
prevent it from being drawn through the sheave. Log board (Naut.), a
board consisting of two parts shutting together like a book, with
columns in which are entered the direction of the wind, course of the
ship, etc., during each hour of the day and night. These entries are
transferred to the log book. A folding slate is now used instead.
 -- Log book, or Logbook (Naut.), a book in which is entered the
daily progress of a ship at sea, as indicated by the log, with notes
on the weather and incidents of the voyage; the contents of the log
board. Log cabin, Log house, a cabin or house made of logs.
 -- Log canoe, a canoe made by shaping and hollowing out a single
log.
 -- Log glass (Naut.), a small sandglass used to time the running out
of the log line.
 -- Log line (Naut.), a line or cord about a hundred and fifty
fathoms long, fastened to the log-chip. See Note under 2d Log, n., 2.
 -- Log perch (Zoöl.), an ethiostomoid fish, or darter (Percina
caprodes); -- called also hogfish and rockfish.
 -- Log reel (Naut.), the reel on which the log line is wound.
 -- Log slate. (Naut.) See Log board (above).
 -- Rough log (Naut.), a first draught of a record of the cruise or
voyage.
 -- Smooth log (Naut.), a clean copy of the rough log. In the case of
naval vessels this copy is forwarded to the proper officer of the
government.
 -- To heave the log (Naut.), to cast the log-chip into the water;
also, the whole process of ascertaining a vessel's speed by the log.

LOG
Log, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Logged; p. pr. & vb. n. Logging.] (Naut.)

Defn: , To enter in a ship's log book; as, to log the miles run. J.
F. Cooper.

LOG
Log, v. i.

1. To engage in the business of cutting or transporting logs for
timber; to get out logs. [U.S.]

2. To move to and fro; to rock. [Obs.]

LOGAN
Log"an, n.

Defn: A rocking or balanced stone. Gwill.

LOGAOEDIC
Log`a*oed"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Pros.)

Defn: Composed of dactyls and trochees so arranged as to produce a
movement like that of ordinary speech.

LOGARITHM
Log"a*rithm, n. Etym: [Gr. logarithme.] (Math.)

Defn: One of a class of auxiliary numbers, devised by John Napier, of
Merchiston, Scotland (1550-1617), to abridge arithmetical
calculations, by the use of addition and subtraction in place of
multiplication and division.

Note: The relation of logarithms to common numbers is that of numbers
in an arithmetical series to corresponding numbers in a geometrical
series, so that sums and differences of the former indicate
respectively products and quotients of the latter; thus
0 1 2 3 4 Indices or logarithms 1 10 100 1000 10,000 Numbers in
geometrical progression Hence, the logarithm of any given number is
the exponent of a power to which another given invariable number,
called the base, must be raised in order to produce that given
number. Thus, let 10 be the base, then 2 is the logarithm of 100,
because 102 = 100, and 3 is the logarithm of 1,000, because 103 =
1,000. Arithmetical complement of a logarithm, the difference between
a logarithm and the number ten.
 -- Binary logarithms. See under Binary.
 -- Common logarithms, or Brigg's logarithms, logarithms of which the
base is 10; -- so called from Henry Briggs, who invented them.
 -- Gauss's logarithms, tables of logarithms constructed for
facilitating the operation of finding the logarithm of the sum of
difference of two quantities from the logarithms of the quantities,
one entry of those tables and two additions or subtractions answering
the purpose of three entries of the common tables and one addition or
subtraction. They were suggested by the celebrated German
mathematician Karl Friedrich Gauss (died in 1855), and are of great
service in many astronomical computations.
 -- Hyperbolic, or Napierian, logarithms, those logarithms (devised
by John Speidell, 1619) of which the base is 2.7182818; -- so called
from Napier, the inventor of logarithms.
 -- Logistic or Proportionallogarithms., See under Logistic.

LOGARITHMETIC; LOGARITHMETICAL
Log`a*rith*met"ic, Log"a*rith*met"ic*al, a.

Defn: See Logarithmic.

LOGARITHMETICALLY
Log`a*rith*met"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Logarithmically.

LOGARITHMIC; LOGARITHMICAL
Log`a*rith"mic, Log`a*rith"mic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. logarithmique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to logarithms; consisting of logarithms.
Logarithmic curve (Math.), a curve which, referred to a system of
rectangular coördinate axes, is such that the ordinate of any point
will be the logarithm of its abscissa.
 -- Logarithmic spiral, a spiral curve such that radii drawn from its
pole or eye at equal angles with each other are in continual
proportion. See Spiral.

LOGARITHMICALLY
Log`a*rith"mic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By the use of logarithms.

LOG-CHIP
Log"-chip`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A thin, flat piece of board in the form of a quadrant of a
circle attached to the log line; -- called also log-ship. See 2d Log,
n., 2.

LOGCOCK
Log"cock`, n.

Defn: The pileated woodpecker.

LOGE
Loge, n. Etym: [F. See Lodge.]

Defn: A lodge; a habitation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOGGAN
Log"gan, n.

Defn: See Logan.

LOGGAT
Log"gat, n. Etym: [Also written logget.]

1. A small log or piece of wood. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

2. pl.

Defn: An old game in England, played by throwing pieces of wood at a
stake set in the ground. [Obs.] Shak.

LOGGE
Logge, n. & v.

Defn: See Lodge. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOGGED
Logged, a.

Defn: Made slow and heavy in movement; water-logged. Beaconsfield.

LOGGER
Log"ger, n.

Defn: One engaged in logging. See Log, v. i. [U.S.] Lowell.

LOGGERHEAD
Log"ger*head`, n. Etym: [Log + head.]

1. A blockhead; a dunce; a numskull. Shak. Milton.

2. A spherical mass of iron, with a long handle, used to heat tar.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: An upright piece of round timber, in a whaleboat, over which a
turn of the line is taken when it is running out too fast. Ham. Nav.
Encyc.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very large marine turtle (Thalassochelys caretta, or
caouana), common in the warmer parts of the Atlantic Ocean, from
Brazil to Cape Cod; -- called also logger-headed turtle.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American shrike (Lanius Ludovicianus), similar to the
butcher bird, but smaller. See Shrike. To be at loggerheads, To fall
to loggerheads, or To go to loggerheads, to quarrel; to be at strife.
L' Estrange.

LOGGERHEADED
Log"ger*head`ed, a.

Defn: Dull; stupid. Shak.
A rabble of loggerheaded physicians. Urquhart.

LOGGERHEADS
Log"ger*heads`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The knapweed.

LOGGIA
Log"gia, n. Etym: [It. See Lodge.] (Arch.)

Defn: A roofed open gallery. It differs from a veranda in being more
architectural, and in forming more decidedly a part of the main
edifice to which it is attached; from a porch, in being intended not
for entrance but for an out-of-door sitting-room.

LOGGING
Log"ging, n.

Defn: The business of felling trees, cutting them into logs, and
transporting the logs to sawmills or to market.

LOGIC
Log"ic, n. Etym: [OE. logike, F. logique, L. logica, logice, Gr.
Legend.]

1. The science or art of exact reasoning, or of pure and formal
thought, or of the laws according to which the processes of pure
thinking should be conducted; the science of the formation and
application of general notions; the science of generalization,
judgment, classification, reasoning, and systematic arrangement;
correct reasoning.

Logic is science of the laws of thought, as that is, of the necessary
conditions to which thought, considered in itself, is subject. Sir W.
Hamilton.

Note: Logic is distinguished as pure and applied. " Pure logic is a
science of the form, or of the formal laws, of thinking, and not of
the matter. Applied logic teaches the application of the forms of
thinking to those objects about which men do think. " Abp. Thomson.

2. A treatise on logic; as, Mill's Logic.

LOGICAL
Log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. logique, L. logicus, Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to logic; used in logic; as, logical subtilties.
Bacon.

2. According to the rules of logic; as, a logical argument or
inference; the reasoning is logical. Prior.

3. Skilled in logic; versed in the art of thinking and reasoning; as,
he is a logical thinker. Addison.

LOGICALITY
Log`i*cal"i*ty, n.

Defn: Logicalness.

LOGICALLY
Log"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a logical manner; as, to argue logically.

LOGICALNESS
Log"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being logical.

LOGICIAN
Lo*gi"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. logicien.]

Defn: A person skilled in logic. Bacon.
Each fierce logician still expelling Locke. Pope.

LOGICS
Log"ics, n.

Defn: See Logic.

LOGISTIC; LOGISTICAL
Lo*gis"tic, Lo*gis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. logistique.]

1. Logical. [Obs.] Berkeley.

2. (Math.)

Defn: Sexagesimal, or made on the scale of 60; as, logistic, or
sexagesimal, arithmetic. Logistic, or Proportional, logarithms,
certain logarithmic numbers used to shorten the calculation of the
fourth term of a proportion of which one of the terms is a given
constant quantity, commonly one hour, while the other terms are
expressed in minutes and seconds; -- not now used.

LOGISTICS
Lo*gis"tics, n.

1. (Mil.)

Defn: That branch of the military art which embraces the details of
moving and supplying armies. The meaning of the word is by some
writers extended to include strategy. H. L. Scott.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A system of arithmetic, in which numbers are expressed in a
scale of 60; logistic arithmetic.

LOGMAN
Log"man, n.; pl. Logmen (.

Defn: A man who carries logs. Shak.

LOGODAEDALY
Log`o*dæd"a*ly, n. Etym: [Gr. Logos, and Dædal.]

Defn: Verbal legerdemain; a playing with words. [R.] Coleridge.

LOGOGRAM
Log"o*gram, n. Etym: [Gr. -gram.]

Defn: A word letter; a phonogram, that, for the sake of brevity,
represents a word; as, |, i. e., t, for it. Cf. Grammalogue.

LOGOGRAPHER
Lo*gog"ra*pher, n.

1. A chronicler; one who writes history in a condensed manner with
short simple sentences.

2. One skilled in logography.

LOGOGRAPHIC; LOGOGRAPHICAL
Log`o*graph"ic, Log`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. logographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to logography.

LOGOGRAPHY
Lo*gog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. logographie.]

1. A method of printing in which whole words or syllables, cast as
single types, are used.

2. A mode of reporting speeches without using shorthand, -- a number
of reporters, each in succession, taking down three or four words.
Brande & C.

LOGOGRIPH
Log"o*griph, n. Etym: [Gr. logogriphe.]

Defn: A sort of riddle in which it is required to discover a chosen
word from various combinations of its letters, or of some of its
letters, which form other words; -- thus, to discover the chosen word
chatter form cat, hat, rat, hate, rate, etc. B. Jonson.

LOGOMACHIST
Lo*gom"a*chist, n. Etym: [See Logomachy.]

Defn: One who contends about words.

LOGOMACHY
Lo*gom"a*chy, n. Etym: [Gr. logomachie.]

1. Contention in words merely, or a contention about words; a war of
words.
The discussion concerning the meaning of the word " justification" .
. . has largely been a mere logomachy. L. Abbott.

2. A game of word making.

LOGOMETRIC
Log`o*met"ric, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Serving to measure or ascertain chemical equivalents;
stoichiometric. [R.]

LOGOS
Log"os, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. A word; reason; speech. H. Bushell.

2. The divine Word; Christ.

LOGOTHETE
Log"o*thete, Etym: [LL. logotheta, fr. Gr.

Defn: An accountant; under Constantine, an officer of the empire; a
receiver of revenue; an administrator of a department.

LOGOTYPE
Log"o*type, n. Etym: [Gr. -type.] (Print.)

Defn: A single type, containing two or more letters; as, æ, Æ, fi,
fl, ffl, etc. ; -- called also ligature.

LOGROLL
Log"roll`, v. i. & t.

Defn: To engage in logrolling; to accomplish by logrolling.
[Political cant, U. S.]

LOGROLLER
Log"roll`er, n.

Defn: One who engages in logrolling. [Political cant, U. S.]
The jobbers and logrollers will all be against it. The. Nation.

LOGROLLING
Log"roll`ing, n.

1. (Logging)

Defn: The act or process of rolling logs from the place where they
were felled to the stream which floats them to the sawmill or to
market. In this labor neighboring camps of loggers combine to assist
each other in turn. Longfellow. [U.S.]

2. Hence: A combining to assist another in consideration of receiving
assistance in return; -- sometimes used of a disreputable mode of
accomplishing political schemes or ends. [Cant, U.S.]

LOG-SHIP
Log"-ship, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A part of the log. See Log-chip, and 2d Log, n., 2.

LOGWOOD
Log"wood` n. Etym: [So called from being imported in logs.]

Defn: The heartwood of a tree (Hæmatoxylon Campechianum), a native of
South America, It is a red, heavy wood, containing a crystalline
substance called hæmatoxylin, and is used largely in dyeing. An
extract from this wood is used in medicine as an astringent. Also
called Campeachy wood, and bloodwood.

-LOGY
-lo*gy. Etym: [Gr. Logic.]

Defn: A combining form denoting a discourse, treatise, doctrine,
theory, science; as, theology, geology, biology, mineralogy.

LOGY
Lo"gy, a. Etym: [From D. log.]

Defn: Heavy or dull in respect to motion or thought; as, a logy
horse. [U.S.]
Porcupines are . . . logy, sluggish creatures. C. H. Merriam.

LOHOCK
Lo"hock, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Loch, a medicine.

LOIMIC
Loi"mic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the plague or contagious disorders.

LOIN
Loin, n. Etym: [OE. loine, OF. logne, F. longe, from (assumed) LL.
lumbea, L. lumbus join. Cf. Lends, Lumbar, Nombles.]

Defn: That part of a human being or quadruped, which extends on
either side of the spinal column between the hip bone and the false
ribs. In human beings the loins are also called the reins. See
Illust. of Beef.

LOIR
Loir, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. glis, gliris.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large European dormouse (Myoxus glis).

LOITER
Loi"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Loitered; p. pr. & vb. n. Loitering.]
Etym: [D. leuteren to delay, loiter; cf; Prov. G. lottern to be
louse, lotter louse, slack, unsettled, vagrant, OHG. lotar.]

1. To be slow in moving; to delay; to linger; to be dilatory; to
spend time idly; to saunter; to lag behind.
Sir John, you loiter here too long. Shak.
If we have loitered, let us quicken our pace. Rogers.

2. To wander as an idle vagrant. [Obs.] Spenser.

Syn.
 -- To linger; delay; lag; saunter; tarry.

LOITERER
Loi"ter*er, n.

1. One who loiters; an idler.

2. An idle vagrant; a tramp. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson.

LOITERINGLY
Loi"ter*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a loitering manner.

LOK; LOKI
Lok, Lo"ki, n. Etym: [Icel. Loki, perh. akin to lokka, locka to
allure, entice.] (Scandinavian Myth.)

Defn: The evil deity, the author of all calamities and mischief,
answering to the African of the Persians.

LOKAO
Lo*ka"o, n.

Defn: A green vegetable dye imported from China.

LOKE
Loke, n. Etym: [See Lock a fastening.]

Defn: A private path or road; also, the wicket or hatch of a door.
[Prov. Eng.]

LOKORYS
Lok"o*rys, n.

Defn: Liquorice. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOLIGO
Lo*li"go, n. Etym: [L., cuttle fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of cephalopods, including numerous species of squids,
common on the coasts of America and Europe. They are much used for
fish bait.

LOLL
Loll, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lolled; p. pr. & vb. n. Lolling.] Etym:
[Cf. Icel. lolla to act lazily, loll, lolla, laziness, OD. lollen to
sit over the fire, and E. lull. Cf. Lill, Lull.]

1. To act lazily or indolently; to recline; to lean; to throw one's
self down; to lie at ease.
Void of care, he lolls supine in state. Dryden.

2. To hand extended from the mouth, as the tongue of an ox or a log
when heated with labor or exertion.
The triple porter of the Stygian seat, With lolling tongue, lay
fawning at thy feet. Dryden
.

3. To let the tongue hang from the mouth, as an ox, dog, or other
animal, when heated by labor; as, the ox stood lolling in the furrow.

LOLL
Loll, v. t.

Defn: To let hang from the mouth, as the tongue.
Fierce tigers couched around and lolled their fawning tongues.
Dryden.

LOLLARD
Lol"lard, n. Etym: [LL. Lollardi, Lullardi, from Walter Lolhardus, a
German; cf. LG. & D. lollen to mumble, to hum, sing in a murmuring
strain; hence, OD. lollaerd a mumbler, i. e., of prayers or psalms,
which was prob. the origin of the name. See Loll, Lull.] (Eccl.
Hist.)
(a) One of a sect of early reformers in Germany.
(b) One of the followers of Wyclif in England. [Called also Loller.]
By Lollards all know the Wyclifities are meant, so called from Walter
Lollardus, one of their teachers in Germany. Fuller.

LOLLARDISM; LOLLARDY
Lol"lard*ism, Lol"lard*y, n.

Defn: The doctrines or principles of the Lollards.

LOLLER
Loll"er, n. Etym: [See Loll.]

1. One who lolls.

2. An idle vagabond. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

3. A Lollard.

LOLLINGLY
Loll"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lolling manner. Buckle.

LOLLIPOP
Lol"li*pop, n. Etym: [Perhaps fr. Prov. E. loll to soothe + pope a
mixed liquor.]

Defn: A kind of sugar confection which dissolves easily in the mouth.
Thackeray.

LOLLOP
Lol"lop, v. i. Etym: [From Loll.]

Defn: To move heavily; to lounge or idle; to loll. [Law.] Charles
Reade.

LOMA
Lo"ma, n.; pl. Lomata. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lobe; a membranous fringe or flap.

LOMATINOUS
Lo*mat"i*nous, a. Etym: [See Loma.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Furnished with lobes or flaps.

LOMBARD
Lom"bard, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lombardy, or the inhabitants of Lombardy.

LOMBARD
Lom"bard, n. Etym: [F. lombard, fr. the Longobardi or Langobardi, i.
e., Longbeards, a people of Northern Germany, west of the Elbe, and
afterward in Northern Italy. See Long, and Beard, and cf. Lumber.]

1. A native or inhabitant of Lombardy.

2. A money lender or banker; -- so called because the business of
banking was first carried on in London by Lombards.

3. Same as Lombard-house.
A Lombard unto this day signifying a bank for usury or pawns. Fuller.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: A form of cannon formerly in use. Prescott. Lombard Street, the
principal street in London for banks and the offices of note brokers;
hence, the money market and interest of London.

LOMBARDEER
Lom`bard*eer", n.

Defn: A pawnbroker. [Obs.] Howell.

LOMBARD-HOUSE; LOMBAR-HOUSE
Lom"bard-house, Lom"bar-house`,Etym: [F. or D. lombard. See Lombard,
n.]

1. A bank or a pawnbroker's shop.

2. A public institution for lending money to the poor at a moderate
interest, upon articles deposited and pledged; -- called also mont de
piété.

LOMBARDIC
Lom*bar"dic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lombardy of the Lombards. Lombardic
alphabet, the ancient alphabet derived from the Roman, and employed
in the manuscript of Italy.
 -- Lombardic architecture, the debased Roman style of architecture
as found in parts of Northern Italy. F. G. Lee. Lombardy poplar.
(Bot.) See Poplar.

LOMENT
Lo"ment, n. Etym: [L. lomentum a mixture of bean meal and rice, used
as a cosmetic wash, bean meal, fr. lavare, lotum, to wash.] (Bot.)

Defn: An elongated pod, consisting, like the legume, of two valves,
but divided transversely into small cells, each containing a single
seed.

LOMENTACEOUS
Lo`men*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [From Loment.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of the nature of a loment; having fruits like loments.

LOMONITE
Lom"o*nite, n.

Defn: Same as Laumontite.

LOMPISH
Lomp"ish, a.

Defn: Lumpish. [Obs.] Spenser.

LOND
Lond, n.

Defn: Land. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LONDON
Lon"don, n.

Defn: The capital city of England. London paste (Med.), a paste made
of caustic soda and unslacked lime; -- used as a caustic to destroy
tumors and other morbid enlargements.
 -- London pride. (Bot.) (a) A garden name for Saxifraga umbrosa, a
hardy perennial herbaceous plant, a native of high lands in Great
Britain. (b) A name anciently given to the Sweet William. Dr. Prior.
 -- London rocket (Bot.), a cruciferous plant (Sisymbrium Irio) which
sprung up in London abundantly on the ruins of the great fire of
1667.

LONDONER
Lon"don*er (-er), n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of London. Shak.

LONDONISM
Lon"don*ism, n.

Defn: A characteristic of Londoners; a mode of speaking peculiar to
London.

LONDONIZE
Lon"don*ize, v. i.

Defn: To impart to (one) a manner or character like that which
distinguishes Londoners.

LONDONIZE
Lon"don*ize, v. i.

Defn: To imitate the manner of the people of London.

LONDON SMOKE
Lon"don smoke.

Defn: A neutral tint given to spectacles, shade glasses for optical
instruments, etc., which reduces the intensity without materially
changing the color of the transmitted light.

LONDON TUFT
London tuft. (Bot.)

Defn: The Sweet William (Dianthus barbatus).

LONE
Lone, n.

Defn: A lane. See Loanin. [Prov. Eng.]

LONE
Lone, a. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. alone.]

1. Being without a companion; being by one's self; also, sad from
lack of companionship; lonely; as, a lone traveler or watcher.
When I have on those pathless wilds a appeared, And the lone wanderer
with my presence cheered. Shenstone.

2. Single; unmarried, or in widowhood. [Archaic]
Queen Elizabeth being a lone woman. Collection of Records (1642).
A hundred mark is a long one for a poor lone woman to bear. Shak.

3. Being apart from other things of the kind; being by itself; also,
apart from human dwellings and resort; as, a lone house. " A lone
isle." Pope.
By a lone well a lonelier column rears. Byron.

4. Unfrequented by human beings; solitary.
Thus vanish scepters, coronets, and balls, And leave you on lone
woods, or empty walls. Pope.

LONELINESS
Lone"li*ness, n.

1. The condition of being lonely; solitude; seclusion.

2. The state of being unfrequented by human beings; as, the
loneliness of a road.

3. Love of retirement; disposition to solitude.
I see The mystery of your loneliness. Shak.

4. A feeling of depression resulting from being alone.

Syn.
 -- Solitude; seclusion. See Solitude.

LONELY
Lone"ly, a. [Compar. Lonelier; superl. Loneliest.] Etym: [Shortened
fr. alonely.]

1. Sequestered from company or neighbors; solitary; retired; as, a
lonely situation; a lonely cell.

2. Alone, or in want of company; forsaken.
To the misled and lonely traveler. Milton.

3. Not frequented by human beings; as, a lonely wood.

4. Having a feeling of depression or sadness resulting from the
consciousness of being alone; lonesome.
I am very often alone. I don't mean I am lonely. H. James.

Syn.
 -- Solitary; lone; lonesome; retired; unfrequented; sequestered;
secluded.

LONENESS
Lone"ness, n.

Defn: Solitude; seclusion. [Obs.] Donne.

LONESOME
Lone"some, a. [Compar. Lonesomer; superl. Lonesomest.]

1. Secluded from society; not frequented by human beings; solitary.
Like one that on a lonesome road Doth walk in fear and dread.
Coleridge
.

2. Conscious of, and somewhat depressed by, solitude; as, to feel
lonesome.
 -- Lone"some*ly, adv.
 -- Lone"some*ness, n.

LONE-STAR STATE
Lone-Star State.

Defn: Texas; -- a nickname alluding to the single star on its coat of
arms, being the device used on its flag and seal when it was a
republic.

LONG
Long, a. [Compar. Longer; superl. Longest.] Etym: [AS. long, lang;
akin to OS, OFries., D., & G. lang, Icel. langr, Sw. lång, Dan. lang,
Goth. laggs, L.longus. sq. root125. Cf. Length, Ling a fish, Linger,
Lunge, Purloin.]

1. Drawn out in a line, or in the direction of length; protracted;
extended; as, a long line; -- opposed to short, and distinguished
from broad or wide.

2. Drawn out or extended in time; continued through a considerable
tine, or to a great length; as, a long series of events; a long
debate; a long drama; a long history; a long book.

3. Slow in passing; causing weariness by length or duration;
lingering; as, long hours of watching.

4. Occurring or coming after an extended interval; distant in time;
far away.
The we may us reserve both fresh and strong Against the tournament,
which is not long. Spenser.

5. Extended to any specified measure; of a specified length; as, a
span long; a yard long; a mile long, that is, extended to the measure
of a mile, etc.

6. Far-reaching; extensive. " Long views." Burke.

7. (Phonetics)

Defn: Prolonged, or relatively more prolonged, in utterance; -- said
of vowels and syllables. See Short, a., 13, and Guide to
Pronunciation, §§ 22, 30.

Note: Long is used as a prefix in a large number of compound
adjectives which are mostly of obvious meaning; as, long-armed, long-
beaked, long-haired, long-horned, long-necked, long-sleeved, long-
tailed, long- worded, etc. In the long run, in the whole course of
things taken together; in the ultimate result; eventually.
 -- Long clam (Zoöl.), the common clam (Mya arenaria) of the Northern
United States and Canada; -- called also soft-shell clam and long-
neck clam. See Mya.
 -- Long cloth, a kind of cotton cloth of superior quality.
 -- Long clothes, clothes worn by a young infant, extending below the
feet.
 -- Long division. (Math.) See Division.
 -- Long dozen, one more than a dozen; thirteen.
 -- Long home, the grave.
 -- Long measure, Long mater. See under Measure, Meter.
 -- Long Parliament (Eng. Hist.), the Parliament which assembled Nov.
3, 1640, and was dissolved by Cromwell, April 20, 1653.
 -- Long price, the full retail price.
 -- Long purple (Bot.), a plant with purple flowers, supposed to be
the Orchis mascula. Dr. Prior.
 -- Long suit (Whist), a suit of which one holds originally more than
three cards. R. A. Proctor.
 -- Long tom. (a) A pivot gun of great length and range, on the dock
of a vessel. (b) A long trough for washing auriferous earth. [Western
U.S.] (c) (Zoöl.) The long-tailed titmouse.
 -- Long wall (Coal Mining), a working in which the whole seam is
removed and the roof allowed to fall in, as the work progresses,
except where passages are needed.
 -- Of long, a long time. [Obs.] Fairfax.
 -- To be, or go, long of the market, To be on the long side of the
market, etc. (Stock Exchange), to hold stock for a rise in price, or
to have a contract under which one can demand stock on or before a
certain day at a stipulated price; -- opposed to short in such
phrases as, to be short of stock, to sell short, etc. [Cant] See
Short.
 -- To have a long head, to have a farseeing or sagacious mind.

LONG
Long, n.

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A note formerly used in music, one half the length of a large,
twice that of a breve.

2. (Phonetics)

Defn: A long sound, syllable, or vowel.

3. The longest dimension; the greatest extent; -- in the phrase, the
long and the short of it, that is, the sum and substance of it.
Addison.

LONG
Long, adv. Etym: [AS. lance.]

1. To a great extent in apace; as, a long drawn out line.

2. To a great extent in time; during a long time.
They that tarry long at the wine. Prov. xxiii. 30.
When the trumpet soundeth long. Ex. xix. 13.

3. At a point of duration far distant, either prior or posterior; as,
not long before; not long after; long before the foundation of Rome;
long after the Conquest.

4. Through the whole extent or duration.
The bird of dawning singeth all night long. Shak.

5. Through an extent of time, more or less; -- only in question; as,
how long will you be gone

LONG
Long, prep. Etym: [Abbreviated fr. along. See 3d Along.]

Defn: By means of; by the fault of; because of. [Obs.] See Along of,
under 3d Along.

LONG
Long, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Longed; p. pr. & vb. n. Longing.] Etym:
[AS. langian to increase, to lengthen, to stretch out the mind after,
to long, to crave, to belong to, fr. lang long. See Long, a.]

1. To feel a strong or morbid desire or craving; to wish for
something with eagerness; -- followed by an infinitive, or by after
or for.
I long to see you. Rom. i. 11.
I have longed after thy precepts. Ps. cxix. 40.
I have longed for thy salvation. Ps. cxix. 174.
Nicomedes, longing for herrings, was supplied with fresh ones . . .
at a great distance from the sea. Arbuthnot.

2. To belong; -- used with to, unto, or for. [Obs.]
The labor which that longeth unto me. Chaucer.

LONGAN
Lon"gan, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A pulpy fruit related to the litchi, and produced by an
evergreen East Indian tree (Nephelium Longan).

LONGANIMITY
Lon`ga*nim"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. longanimitas; longus long + animus
mind: cf. F. longanimité.]

Defn: Disposition to bear injuries patiently; forbearance; patience.
Jer. Taylor.

LONG-ARMED
Long"-armed`, a.

Defn: Having long arms; as, the long-armed ape or gibbon.

LONGBEAK
Long"beak`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American redbellied snipe (Macrorhamphus scolopaceus); --
called also long-billed dowitcher.

LONGBOAT
Long"boat`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: Formerly, the largest boat carried by a merchant vessel,
corresponding to the launch of a naval vessel.

LONGBOW
Long"bow`, n.

Defn: The ordinary bow, not mounted on a stock; -- so called in
distinction from the crossbow when both were used as weapons of war.
Also, sometimes, such a bow of about the height of a man, as
distinguished from a much shorter one. To draw the longbow, to tell
large stories.

LONG-BREATHED
Long"-breathed`, a.

Defn: Having the power of retaining the breath for a long time; long-
winded.

LONG-DRAWN
Long"-drawn`, a.

Defn: Extended to a great length.
The cicadæ hushed their long-drawn, ear-splitting strains. G. W.
Cable.

LONGE
Longe, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. allonge. See Lunge.]

1. A thrust. See Lunge. Smollett.

2. The training ground for a horse. Farrow.

LONGE
Longe, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as 4th Lunge.

LONGER
Long"er, n.

Defn: One who longs for anything.

LONGEVAL
Lon*ge"val, a.

Defn: Long-loved; longevous.[R.] Pope.

LONGEVITY
Lon*gev"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. longaevitas. See Longevous.]

Defn: Long duration of life; length of life.
The instances of longevity are chiefly amongst the abstemious.
Arbuthnot.

LONGEVOUS
Lon*ge"vous, a. Etym: [L. longaevus; longus long + aevum lifetime,
age. See Long, and Age.]

Defn: Living a long time; of great age. Sir T. Browne.

LONGHAND
Long"hand`, n.

Defn: The written characters used in the common method of writing; --
opposed to shorthand.

LONGHEADED
Long"head"ed, a.

Defn: Having unusual foresight or sagacity.
 -- Long"-head`ed*ness, n.

LONGHORN
Long"horn`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A long-horned animal, as a cow, goat, or beetle. See Long-
horned.

LONG-HORNED
Long"-horned`, a. (Zoöl.) [Obs.]

Defn: Having a long horn or horns; as, a long-horned goat, or cow;
having long antennæ, as certain beetles (Longicornia).

LONGICORN
Lon"gi*corn, a. Etym: [L. longus long + cornu horn: cf. F.
longicorne.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Long-horned; pertaining to the Longicornia.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Longicornia.

LONGICORNIA
Lon`gi*cor"ni*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. longus long + cornu horn.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of beetles, including a large number of species, in
which the antennæ are very long. Most of them, while in the larval
state, bore into the wood or beneath the bark of trees, and some
species are very destructive to fruit and shade trees. See Apple
borer, under Apple, and Locust beetle, under Locust.

LONGILATERAL
Lon`gi*lat"er*al, a. Etym: [L. longus long + lateralis lateral, fr.
latus side.]

Defn: Having long sides especially, having the form of a long
parallelogram.
Nineveh . . . was of a longilateral figure, ninety-five furlongs
broad, and a hundred and fifty long. Sir T. Browne.

LONGILOQUENCE
Lon*gil"o*quence, n. Etym: [L. langus long + loquentia a talking.]

Defn: Long-windedness.
American longiloquence in oratory. Fitzed. Hall.

LONGIMANOUS
Lon*gim"a*nous, a. Etym: [L. longus long + manus hand.]

Defn: Having long hands. Sir T. Browne.

LONGIMETRY
Lon*gim"e*try, n. Etym: [L. longus long + -metry: cf. F.
longimétrie.]

Defn: The art or practice of measuring distances or lengths. Cheyne.

LONGING
Long"ing, n.

Defn: An eager desire; a craving; a morbid appetite; an earnest wish;
an aspiration.
Put on my crown; I have immortal longings in me. Shak.

LONGINGLY
Long"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With longing. Dryden.

LONGINQUITY
Lon*gin"qui*ty, n. Etym: [L. longinquitas, fr. longinquus extensive,
remote, fr. longus long.]

Defn: Greatness of distance; remoteness. [R.] Barrow.

LONGIPALP
Lon"gi*palp, n. Etym: [F. longipalpe, fr. L. longus long + F. palpe a
feeler, a palp.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a tribe of beetles, having long maxillary palpi.

LONGIPENNATE
Lon"gi*pen"nate, a. Etym: [L. longus long + E. pennate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having long wings, or quills.

LONGIPENNES
Lon`gi*pen"nes, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. longus long + penna wing.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of longwinged sea birds, including the gulls, petrels,
etc.

LONGIPENNINE
Lon`gi*pen"nine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Longipennes; longipennate.

LONGIROSTER
Lon`gi*ros"ter, n.; pl. L. Longirostres, E. Longirosters. Etym: [L.
longus long + rostrum beak: cf. F. longirostre.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Longirostres.

LONGIROSTRAL
Lon`gi*ros"tral, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a long bill; of or pertaining to the Longirostres.

LONGIROSTRES
Lon`gi*ros"tres, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. longus long + rostrum
beak.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of birds characterized by having long slender bills, as
the sandpipers, curlews, and ibises. It is now regarded as an
artificial division.

LONGISH
Long"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat long; moderately long.

LONGITUDE
Lon"gi*tude, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. longitudo, fr. longus long.]

1. Length; measure or distance along the longest line; --
distinguished from breadth or thickness; as, the longitude of a room;
rare now, except in a humorous sense. Sir H. Wotton.
The longitude of their cloaks. Sir. W. Scott.
Mine [shadow] spindling into longitude immense. Cowper.

2. (Geog.)

Defn: The arc or portion of the equator intersected between the
meridian of a given place and the meridian of some other place from
which longitude is reckoned, as from Greenwich, England, or sometimes
from the capital of a country, as from Washington or Paris. The
longitude of a place is expressed either in degrees or in time; as,
that of New York is 74º or 4 h. 56 min. west of Greenwich.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: The distance in degrees, reckoned from the vernal equinox, on
the ecliptic, to a circle at right angles to the ecliptic passing
through the heavenly body whose longitude is designated; as, the
longitude of Capella is 79º. Geocentric longitude (Astron.), the
longitude of a heavenly body as seen from the earth.
 -- Heliocentric longitude, the longitude of a heavenly body, as seen
from the sun's center.
 -- Longitude stars, certain stars whose position is known, and the
data in regard to which are used in observations for finding the
longitude, as by lunar distances.

LONGITUDINAL
Lon`gi*tu"di*nal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. longitudinal.]

1. Of or pertaining to longitude or length; as, longitudinal
distance.

2. Extending in length; in the direction of the length; running
lengthwise, as distinguished from transverse; as, the longitudinal
diameter of a body. Cheyne.

LONGITUDINAL
Lon`gi*tu"di*nal, n.

Defn: A railway sleeper lying parallel with the rail.

LONGITUDINALLY
Lon`gi*tu"di*nal*ly, adv.

Defn: In the direction of length.

LONGLEGS
Long"legs`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A daddy longlegs.

LONG-LIVED
Long"-lived`, a.

Defn: Having a long life; having constitutional peculiarities which
make long life probable; lasting long; as, a long-lived tree; they
are a longlived family; long-lived prejudices.

LONGLY
Long"ly, adv.

1. With longing desire. [Obs.] Shak.

2. For a long time; hence, wearisomely.

LONGMYND ROCKS
Long"mynd rocks". (Geol.)

Defn: The sparingly fossiliferous conglomerates, grits, schists, and
states of Great Britain, which lie at the base of the Cambrian
system; -- so called, because typically developed in the Longmynd
Hills, Shropshire.

LONGNESS
Long"ness, n.

Defn: Length.

LONGNOSE
Long"nose`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European garfish.

LONG PRIMER
Long" prim"er. (Print.)

Defn: A kind of type, in size between small pica and bourgeois.

Note: long primer.

LONGSHANKS
Long"shanks`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The stilt.

LONGSHORE
Long"shore`, a. Etym: [Abbrev. from alongshore.]

Defn: Belonging to the seashore or a seaport; along and on the shore.
"Longshore thieves." R. Browning.

LONGSHOREMAN
Long"shore`man, n.; pl. Longshoremen. Etym: [Abbrev. fr.
alongshoreman.]

Defn: One of a class of laborers employed about the wharves of a
seaport, especially in loading and unloading vessels.

LONG-SIGHT
Long"-sight, n.

Defn: Long-sightedness Good.

LONG-SIGHTED
Long"-sight`ed, a.

1. Able to see objects at a great distance; hence, having great
foresight; sagacious; farseeing.

2. Able to see objects distinctly at a distance, but not close at
hand; hypermetropic.

LONG-SIGHTEDNESS
Long"-sight`ed*ness, n.

1. The state or condition of being long-sighted; hence, sagacity;
shrewdness.

2. (Med.)

Defn: See Hypermetropia.

LONGSOME
Long"some a. Etym: [AS. langsum.]

Defn: Extended in length; tiresome. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. Prior.
 -- Long"some*ness, n. [Obs.] Fuller.

LONGSPUN
Long"spun`, a.

Defn: Spun out, or extended, to great length; hence, long-winded;
tedious.
The longspun allegories fulsome grow, While the dull moral lies too
plain below. Addison.

LONGSPUR
Long"spur`, n. Etym: [So called from the length of the hind claw.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genus
Calcarius (or Plectrophanes), and allied genera. The Lapland longspur
(C. Lapponicus), the chestnut-colored longspur (C. ornatus), and
other species, inhabit the United States.

LONG-STOP
Long"-stop`, n. (Cricket)

Defn: One who is set to stop balls which pass the wicket keeper.

LONG-SUFFERANCE
Long"-suf`fer*ance, n.

Defn: Forbearance to punish or resent.

LONG-SUFFERING
Long"-suf`fer*ing, n.

Defn: Bearing injuries or provocation for a long time; patient; not
easily provoked.
The Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in
goodness and truth. Ex. xxxiv. 6.

LONG-SUFFERING
Long"-suf`fer*ing, n.

Defn: Long patience of offense.
Despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-
suffering Rom. ii. 4.

LONGTAIL
Long"tail`, n.

Defn: An animal, particularly a log, having an uncut tail. Cf.
Curtail. Dog.

Note: A longtail was a gentleman's dog, or the dog of one qualified
to bunt, other dogs being required to have their tails cut. Cut and
longtail, all, gentlefolks and others, as they might come. Shak.

LONG-TONGUE
Long"-tongue`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wryneck.

LONG-TONGUED
Long"-tongued`, a.

1. Having a long tongue.

2. Talkative; babbling; loquacious. Shak.

LONGULITE
Lon"gu*lite, n. Etym: [L. longus long + -lie.] (Min.)

Defn: A kind of crystallite having a (slender) acicular form.

LONG-WAISTED
Long"-waist`ed, a.

1. Having a long waist; long from the armpits to the armpits to the
bottom of the waist; -- said of persons.

2. Long from the part about the neck or shoulder, or from the
armpits, to the bottom of the weist, or to the skirt; -- said of
garments; as, a long-waisted coat.

LONGWAYS
Long"ways`, adv.

Defn: Lengthwise. Addison.

LONG-WINDED
Long"-wind"ed, a.

Defn: Long-breathed; hence, tediously long in speaking; consuming
much time; as, a long-winded talker.
 -- Long"-wind"ed*ness, n.
A tedious, long-winded harangue. South.

LONGWISE
Long"wise`, adv.

Defn: Lengthwise.

LOO
Loo, n. Etym: [For older lanterloo, F. lanturelu, lanturlu, name of
the game; orig., the refrain of a vaudeville.]
(a) An old game played with five, or three, cards dealt to each
player from a full pack. When five cards are used the highest card is
the knave of clubs or (if so agreed upon) the knave of trumps; --
formerly called lanterloo.
(b) A modification of the game of "all fours" in which the players
replenish their hands after each round by drawing each a card from
the pack.

Loo table, a round table adapted for a circle of persons playing loo.

LOO
Loo, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Looed; p. pr. & vb. n. Looing.]

Defn: To beat in the game of loo by winning every trick. [Written
also lu.] Goldsmith.

LOOB
Loob, n. Etym: [Corn., slime, sludge.] (Mining)

Defn: The clay or slimes washed from tin ore in dressing.

LOOBILY
Loo"bi*ly, a. Etym: [From Looby.]

Defn: Loobylike; awkward. Fuller.

LOOBILY
Loo"bi*ly, adv.

Defn: Awkwardly. L'Estrange.

LOOBY
Loo"by, n.; pl. Loobies. Etym: [Cf. Lob.]

Defn: An awkward, clumsy fellow; a lubber. Swift.

LOOCH
Looch, n.

Defn: See 2d Loch.

LOOF
Loof, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The spongelike fibers of the fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant
(Luffa Ægyptiaca); called also vegetable sponge.

LOOF
Loof, n. Etym: [See Luff.] [Also written luff.] (Naut.)
(a) Formerly, some appurtenance of a vessel which was used in
changing her course; -- probably a large paddle put over the lee bow
to help bring her head nearer to the wind.
(b) The part of a ship's side where the planking begins to curve
toward bow and stern.

LOOF
Loof, v. i. (Naut.)

Defn: See Luff.

LOOK
Look, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Looked; p. pr. & vb. n. Looking.] Etym:
[OE. loken, AS. locian; akin to G. lugen, OHG. luogen.]

1. To direct the eyes for the purpose of seeing something; to direct
the eyes toward an object; to observe with the eyes while keeping
them directed; -- with various prepositions, often in a special or
figurative sense. See Phrases below.

2. To direct the attention (to something); to consider; to examine;
as, to look at an action.

3. To seem; to appear; to have a particular appearance; as, the
patient looks better; the clouds look rainy.
It would look more like vanity than gratitude. Addison.
Observe how such a practice looks in another person. I. Watts.

4. To have a particular direction or situation; to face; to front.
The inner gate that looketh to north. Ezek. viii. 3.
The east gate . . . which looketh eastward. Ezek. xi. 1.

5. In the imperative: see; behold; take notice; take care; observe; -
- used to call attention.
Look, how much we thus expel of sin, so much we expel of virtue.
Milton.

Note: Look, in the imperative, may be followed by a dependent
sentence, but see is oftener so used.
Look that ye bind them fast. Shak.
Look if it be my daughter. Talfourd.

6. To show one's self in looking, as by leaning out of a window; as,
look out of the window while I speak to you. Sometimes used
figuratively.
My toes look through the overleather. Shak.

7. To await the appearance of anything; to expect; to anticipate.
Looking each hour into death's mouth to fall. Spenser.
To look about, to look on all sides, or in different directions.
 -- To look about one, to be on the watch; to be vigilant; to be
circumspect or guarded.
 -- To look after. (a) To attend to; to take care of; as, to look
after children. (b) To expect; to be in a state of expectation.
Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those
things which are coming on the earth. Luke xxi. 26.
(c) To seek; to search.
My subject does not oblige me to look after the water, or point forth
the place where to it is now retreated. Woodward.
-- To look at, to direct the eyes toward so that one sees, or as if
to see; as, to look at a star; hence, to observe, examine, consider;
as, to look at a matter without prejudice.
 -- To look black, to frown; to scowl; to have a threatening
appearance.
The bishops thereat repined, and looked black. Holinshed.
-- To look down on or upon, to treat with indifference or contempt;
to regard as an inferior; to despise.
 -- To look for. (a) To expect; as, to look for news by the arrival
of a ship. "Look now for no enchanting voice." Milton. (b) To seek
for; to search for; as, to look for lost money, or lost cattle.
 -- To look forth. (a) To look out of something, as from a window.
(b) To threaten to come out. Jer. vi. 1. (Rev. Ver.).
 -- To look into, to inspect closely; to observe narrowly; to
examine; as, to look into the works of nature; to look into one's
conduct or affairs.
 -- To look on. (a) To regard; to esteem.
Her friends would look on her the worse. Prior.
(b) To consider; to view; to conceive of; to think of.
I looked on Virgil as a succinct, majestic writer. Dryden.
(c) To be a mere spectator.
I'll be a candleholder, and look on. Shak.
-- To look out, to be on the watch; to be careful; as, the seaman
looks out for breakers.
 -- To look through. (a) To see through. (b) To search; to examine
with the eyes.
 -- To look to or unto. (a) To watch; to take care of. "Look well to
thy herds." Prov. xxvii. 23. (b) To resort to with expectation of
receiving something; to expect to receive from; as, the creditor may
look to surety for payment. "Look unto me, and be ye saved." Is. xlv.
22.
 -- To look up, to search for or find out by looking; as, to look up
the items of an account.
 -- To look up to, to respect; to regard with deference.

LOOK
Look, v. t.

1. To look at; to turn the eyes toward.

2. To seek; to search for. [Obs.]
Looking my love, I go from place to place. Spenser.

3. To expect. [Obs.] Shak.

4. To influence, overawe, or subdue by looks or presence as, to look
down opposition.
A spirit fit to start into an empire, And look the world to law.
Dryden.

5. To express or manifest by a look.
Soft eyes looked love to eyes which spake again. Byron.
To look daggers. See under Dagger.
 -- To look in the face, to face or meet with boldness or confidence;
hence, sometimes, to meet for combat.
 -- To look out, to seek for; as, prudent persons look out associates
good reputation.

LOOK
Look, n.

1. The act of looking; a glance; a sight; a view; -- often in certain
phrases; as, to have, get, take, throw, or cast, a look.
Threw many a northward look to see his father Bring up his powers;
but he did long in vain. Shak.

2. Expression of the eyes and face; manner; as, a proud or defiant
look. "Gentle looks." Shak.
Up ! up! my friends, and clear your looks. Wordsworth.

3. Hence; Appearance; aspect; as, the house has a gloomy look; the
affair has a bad look.
Pain, disgrace, and poverty have frighted looks. Locke.
There was something that reminded me of Dante's Hell in the look of
this. Carlyle.

LOOKDOWN
Look"down`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Moonfish (b).

LOOKER
Look"er, n.

Defn: One who looks. Looker-on, a spectator; one that looks on, but
has no agency or part in an affair.
Did not this fatal war affront thy coast, Yet sattest thou an idle
looker-on Fairfax.

LOOKING
Look"ing, a.

Defn: Having a certain look or appearance; -- often compounded with
adjectives; as, good-looking, grand-looking, etc.

LOOKING
Look"ing, n.

1. The act of one who looks; a glance.

2. The manner in which one looks; appearance; countenance; face.
[Obs.]
All dreary was his cheer and his looking. Chaucer.
Looking for, anticipation; expectation. "A certain fearful looking
for of judgment." Heb. x. 27.

LOOKING-GLASS
Look"ing-glass`, n.

Defn: A mirror made of glass on which has been placed a backing of
some reflecting substance, as quicksilver.
There is none so homely but loves a looking-glass. South.

LOOKOUT
Look"out`, n.

1. A careful looking or watching for any object or event.

2. The place from which such observation is made.

3. A person engaged in watching.

4. Object or duty of forethought and care; responsibility. [Colloq.]

LOOL
Lool, n. (Metal.)

Defn: A vessel used to receive the washings of ores of metals.

LOOM
Loom, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Loon, the bird.

LOOM
Loom, n. Etym: [OE. lome, AS. gel utensil, implement.]

1. A frame or machine of wood or other material, in which a weaver
forms cloth out of thread; a machine for interweaving yarn or threads
into a fabric, as in knitting or lace making.
Hector, when he sees Andromache overwhelmed with terror, sends her
for consolation to the loom and the distaff. Rambler.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: That part of an oar which is near the grip or handle and
inboard from the rowlock. Totten.

LOOM
Loom, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Loomed; p. pr. & vb. n. Looming.] Etym:
[OE. lumen to shine, Icel. ljoma; akin to AS. leóma light, and E.
light; or cf. OF. lumer to shine, L. luminare to illumine, lumen
light; akin to E. light. Light not dark.]

1. To appear above the surface either of sea or land, or to appear
enlarged, or distorted and indistinct, as a distant object, a ship at
sea, or a mountain, esp. from atmospheric influences; as, the ship
looms large; the land looms high.
Awful she looms, the terror of the main. H. J. Pye.

2. To rise and to be eminent; to be elevated or ennobled, in a moral
sense.
On no occasion does he [Paul] loom so high, and shine so gloriously,
as in the context. J. M. Mason.

LOOM
Loom, n.

Defn: The state of looming; esp., an unnatural and indistinct
appearance of elevation or enlargement of anything, as of land or of
a ship, seen by one at sea.

LOOM-GALE
Loom"-gale`, n.

Defn: A gentle gale of wind.

LOOMING
Loom"ing, n.

Defn: The indistinct and magnified appearance of objects seen in
particular states of the atmosphere. See Mirage.

LOON
Loon, n. Etym: [Scot. loun, lown, loon; akin to OD. loen a stupid
man; prob. for an older lown, and akin to E. lame.]

Defn: A sorry fellow; a worthless person; a rogue.

LOON
Loon, n. Etym: [For older loom, Icel. l; akin to Dan. & Sw. lom.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several aquatic, wed-footed, northern birds of the
genus Urinator (formerly Colymbus), noted for their expertness in
diving and swimming under water. The common loon, or great northern
diver (Urinator imber, or Colymbus torquatus), and the red-throated
loon or diver (U. septentrionalis), are the best known species. See
Diver.

LOONY
Loon"y, a.

Defn: See Luny.

LOOP
Loop, n. Etym: [G. luppe an iron lump. Cf. Looping.] (Iron Works)

Defn: A mass of iron in a pasty condition gathered into a ball for
the tilt hammer or rolls. [Written also loup.]

LOOP
Loop, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. & Gael. lub loop, noose, fold, thong, bend,
lub to bend, incline.]

1. A fold or doubling of a thread, cord, rope, etc., through which
another thread, cord, etc., can be passed, or which a hook can be
hooked into; an eye, as of metal; a staple; a noose; a bight.
That the probation bear no hinge, nor loop To hang a doubt on. Shak.

2. A small, narrow opening; a loophole.
And stop all sight-holes, every loop from whence The eye of Reason
may pry in upon us. Shak.

3. A curve of any kind in the form of a loop.

4. (Telegraphy)

Defn: A wire forming part of a main circuit and returning to the
point from which it starts.

5. (Acoustics)

Defn: The portion of a vibrating string, air column, etc., between
two nodes; -- called also ventral segment. Loop knot, a single knot
tied in a doubled cord, etc. so as to leave a loop beyond the knot.
See Illust. of Knot.

LOOP
Loop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Looped; p. pr. & vb. n. Looping.]

Defn: To make a loop of or in; to fasten with a loop or loops; --
often with up; as, to loop a string; to loop up a curtain.

LOOPED
Looped, a.

1. Bent, folded, or tied, so as to make a loop; as, a looped wire or
string.

2. Full of holes. [Obs.] Shak.

LOOPER
Loop"er, n.

1. An instrument, as a bodkin, for forming a loop in yarn, a cord,
etc.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larva of any species of geometrid moths. See Geometrid.

LOOPHOLE
Loop"hole`, n.

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A small opening, as in the walls of fortification, or in the
bulkhead of a ship, through which small arms or other weapons may be
discharged at an enemy.

2. A hole or aperture that gives a passage, or the means of escape or
evasion.

LOOPHOLED
Loop"holed`, a.

Defn: Provided with loopholes.

LOOPIE
Loop"ie, a.

Defn: Deceitful; cunning; sly. [Scot.]

LOOPING
Loop"ing, n. Etym: [Cf. D. loopen to run. Cf. Loop a mass of iron,
Leap.] (Metal.)

Defn: The running together of the matter of an ore into a mass, when
the ore is only heated for calcination.

LOOPING
Loop"ing, p. pr. & vb. n.

Defn: of Loop. Looping snail (Zoöl.), any species of land snail of
the genus Truncatella; -- so called because it creeps like the
measuring worms.

LOOPLIGHT
Loop"light`, n.

Defn: A small narrow opening or window in a tower or fortified wall;
a loophole.

LOORD
Loord, n. Etym: [F. lourd heavy, dull.]

Defn: A dull, stupid fellow; a drone. [Obs.] Spenser.

LOOS
Loos, n. Etym: [OE. los, fr. OF. los, laus.]

Defn: Praise; fame; reputation. [Obs.] Spenser.
Good conscience and good loos. Chaucer.

LOOSE
Loose, a. [Compar. Looser; superl. Loosest.] Etym: [OE. loos, lous,
laus, Icel. lauss; akin to OD. loos, D. los, AS. leás false,
deceitful, G. los, loose, Dan. & Sw. lös, Goth. laus, and E. lose.
Lose, and cf. Leasing falsehood.]

1. Unbound; untied; unsewed; not attached, fastened, fixed, or
confined; as, the loose sheets of a book.
Her hair, nor loose, nor tied in formal plat. Shak.

2. Free from constraint or obligation; not bound by duty, habit, etc.
; -- with from or of.
Now I stand Loose of my vow; but who knows Cato's thoughts Addison.

3. Not tight or close; as, a loose garment.

4. Not dense, close, compact, or crowded; as, a cloth of loose
texture.
With horse and chariots ranked in loose array. Milton.

5. Not precise or exact; vague; indeterminate; as, a loose style, or
way of reasoning.
The comparison employed . . . must be considered rather as a loose
analogy than as an exact scientific explanation. Whewel.

6. Not strict in matters of morality; not rigid according to some
standard of right.
The loose morality which he had learned. Sir W. Scott.

7. Unconnected; rambling.
Vario spends whole mornings in running over loose and unconnected
pages. I. Watts.

8. Lax; not costive; having lax bowels. Locke.

9. Dissolute; unchaste; as, a loose man or woman.
Loose ladies in delight. Spenser.

10. Containing or consisting of obscene or unchaste language; as, a
loose epistle. Dryden. At loose ends, not in order; in confusion;
carelessly managed.
 -- Fast and loose. See under Fast.
 -- To break loose. See under Break.
 -- Loose pulley. (Mach.) See Fast and loose pulleys, under Fast.
 -- To let loose, to free from restraint or confinement; to set at
liberty.

LOOSE
Loose, n.

1. Freedom from restraint. [Obs.] Prior.

2. A letting go; discharge. B. Jonson. To give a loose, to give
freedom.
Vent all its griefs, and give a loose to sorrow. Addison.

LOOSE
Loose, v. n. [imp. & p. p. Loosed; p. pr. & vb. n. Loosing.] Etym:
[From Loose, a.]

1. To untie or unbind; to free from any fastening; to remove the
shackles or fastenings of; to set free; to relieve.
Canst thou . . . loose the bands of Orion Job. xxxviii. 31.
Ye shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her; loose them, and bring
them unto me. Matt. xxi. 2.

2. To release from anything obligatory or burdensome; to disengage;
hence, to absolve; to remit.
Art thou loosed from a wife seek not a wife. 1 Cor. vii. 27.
Whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Matt.
xvi. 19.

3. To relax; to loosen; to make less strict.
The joints of his loins were loosed. Dan. v. 6.

4. To solve; to interpret. [Obs.] Spenser.

LOOSE
Loose, v. i.

Defn: To set sail. [Obs.] Acts xiii. 13.

LOOSELY
Loose"ly, adv.

Defn: In a loose manner.

LOOSEN
Loos"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Loosened; p. pr. & vb. n. Loosening.]
Etym: [See Loose, v. t.]

1. To make loose; to free from tightness, tension, firmness, or
fixedness; to make less dense or compact; as, to loosen a string, or
a knot; to loosen a rock in the earth.
After a year's rooting, then shaking doth the tree good by loosening
of the earth. Bacon.

2. To free from restraint; to set at liberty..
It loosens his hands, and assists his understanding. Dryden.

3. To remove costiveness from; to facilitate or increase the alvine
discharges of. Bacon.

LOOSEN
Loos"en, v. i.

Defn: To become loose; to become less tight, firm, or compact. S.
Sharp.

LOOSENER
Loos"en*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, loosens.

LOOSENESS
Loose"ness, n.

Defn: The state, condition, or quality, of being loose; as, the
looseness of a cord; looseness of style; looseness of morals or of
principles.

LOOSESTRIFE
Loose"strife`, n. (Bot.)
(a) The name of several species of plants of the genus Lysimachia,
having small star-shaped flowers, usually of a yellow color.
(b) Any species of the genus Lythrum, having purple, or, in some
species, crimson flowers. Gray.

False loosestrife, a plant of the genus Ludwigia, which includes
several species, most of which are found in the United States.
 -- Tufted loosestrife, the plant Lysimachia thyrsiflora, found in
the northern parts of the United States and in Europe. Gray.

LOOSISH
Loos"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat loose.

LOOT
Loot, n. Etym: [Hind. l, Skr. l, l, booty, lup to break, spoil; prob.
akin to E. rob.]

1. The act of plundering.

2. Plunder; booty; especially, the boot taken in a conquered or
sacked city.

LOOT
Loot, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Looted; p. pr. & vb. n. Looting.]

Defn: To plunder; to carry off as plunder or a prize lawfully
obtained by war.
Looting parties . . . ransacking the houses. L.O

LOOTER
Loot"er, n.

Defn: A plunderer.

LOOVER
Loo"ver, n.

Defn: See Louver.

LOP
Lop, n. Etym: [AS. loppe.]

Defn: A flea.[Obs.] Cleveland.

LOP
Lop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lopped; p. pr. & vb. n. Lopping.] Etym:
[Prov. G. luppen, lubben,to cut, geld, or OD. luppen, D. lubben.]

1. To cut off as the top or extreme part of anything; to shoas, to
lop a tree or its branches. "With branches lopped, in wood or
mountain felled." Milton.
Expunge the whole, or lop the excrescent parts. Pope.

2. To cut partly off and bend down; as, to lop bushes in a hedge.

LOP
Lop, n.

Defn: That which is lopped from anything, as branches from a tree.
Shak. Mortimer.

LOP
Lop, v. i.

Defn: To hang downward; to be pendent; to lean to one side.

LOP
Lop, v. t.

Defn: To let hang down; as, to lop the head.

LOP
Lop, a.

Defn: Hanging down; as, lop ears; -- used also in compound
adjectives; as, lopeared; lopsided.

LOPE
Lope, imp.

Defn: of Leap. [Obs.]
And, laughing, lope into a tree. Spenser.

LOPE
Lope, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Loped; p. pr. & vb. n. Loping.] Etym: [See
Leap.]

1. To leap; to dance. [Prov. Eng.] "He that lopes on the ropes."
Middleton.

2. To move with a lope, as a horse. [U.S.]

LOPE
Lope, n.

1. A leap; a long step. [Prov. Eng.]

2. An easy gait, consisting of long running strides or leaps. [U.S.]
The mustang goes rollicking ahead, with the eternal lope, . . . a
mixture of two or three gaits, as easy as the motions of a crade. T.
B. Thorpe.

LOPEARED
Lop"eared`, a.

Defn: Having ears which lop or hang down.

LOPEMAN
Lope"man, n.

Defn: Leaper; ropedancer. [Obs.]

LOPER
Lop"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, lopes; esp., a horse that lopes. [U.S.]

2. (Rope Making)

Defn: A swivel at one end of a ropewalk, used in laying the strands.

LOPHINE
Loph"ine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous organic base obtained by the oxidation of
amarine, and regarded as a derivative of benzoic aldehyde. It is
obtained in long white crystalline tufts, -- whence its name.

LOPHIOMYS
Lo*phi"o*mys, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. lofia` a mane, bristly ridge +
my^s a mouse.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very singular rodent (Lophiomys Imhausi) of Northeastern
Africa. It is the only known representative of a special family
(Lophiomyidæ), remarkable for the structure of the skull. It has
handlike feet, and the hair is peculiar in structure and arrangement.

LOPHOBRANCH
Loph"o*branch, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Lophobranchii.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Lophobranchii.

LOPHOBRANCHIATE
Loph`o*bran"chi*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Lophobranchii.

LOPHOBRANCHII
Loph`o*bran"chi*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of teleostean fishes, having the gills arranged in
tufts on the branchial arches, as the Hippocampus and pipefishes.

LOPHOPHORE
Loph"o*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A disk which surrounds the mouth and bears the tentacles of the
Bryozoa. See Phylactolemata.

LOPHOPODA
Lo*phop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Phylactolemata.

LOPHOSTEON
Lo*phos"te*on, n. ; pl. L. Lophostea, E. Lophosteons. Etym: [NL.,
from Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The central keel-bearing part of the sternum in birds.

LOPPARD
Lop"pard, n. Etym: [Lop + -ard.]

Defn: A tree, the top of which has been lopped off. [Eng.]

LOPPER
Lop"per, n.

Defn: One who lops or cuts off.

LOPPER
Lop"per, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Loppered; p. pr. & vb. n. Loppering.]
Etym: [Cf. Prov. G. lübbern, levern, OHG. giliber, G. luppe, lab,
rennet.]

Defn: To turn sour and coagulate from too long standing, as milk.

LOPPING
Lop"ping, n.

Defn: A cutting off, as of branches; that which is cut off; leavings.
The loppings made from that stock whilst it stood. Burke.

LOPPY
Lop"py, a.

Defn: Somewhat lop; inclined to lop.

LOPSEED
Lop"seed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial herb (Phryma Leptostachya), having slender seedlike
fruits.

LOPSIDED
Lop"sid`ed, a. Etym: [Lop + side. Cf. Lobsided.]

1. Leaning to one side because of some defect of structure; as, a
lopsided ship. Marryat.

2. Unbalanced; poorly proportioned; full of idiosyncrasies. J. S.
Mill.

LOQUACIOUS
Lo*qua"cious, a. Etym: [L. loquax, -acis, talkative, fr. loqui to
speak; cf. Gr.

1. Given to continual talking; talkative; garrulous.
Loquacious, brawling, ever in the wrong. Dryden.

2. Speaking; expressive. [R.] J. Philips.

3. Apt to blab and disclose secrets.

Syn.
 -- Garrulous; talkative. See Garrulous.

LOQUACIOUSLY
Lo*qua"cious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a loquacious manner.

LOQUACIOUSNESS
Lo*qua"cious*ness, n.

Defn: Loquacity.

LOQUACITY
Lo*quac"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. loquacitas: cf. F. loquacité.]

Defn: The habit or practice of talking continually or excessively;
inclination to talk too much; talkativeness; garrulity.
Too great loquacity and too great taciturnity by fits. Arbuthnot.

LOQUAT
Lo"quat, n. Etym: [Chinese name.] (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of the Japanese medlar (Photinia Japonica). It is as
large as a small plum, but grows in clusters, and contains four or
five large seeds. Also, the tree itself.

LORAL
Lo"ral, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the lores.

LORATE
Lo"rate, a. Etym: [L. loratus, fr. lorum thong.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of a thong or strap; ligulate.

LORCHA
Lor"cha, n. Etym: [Pg.] (Naut.)

Defn: A kind of light vessel used on the coast of China, having the
hull built on a European model, and the rigging like that of a
Chinese junk. Admiral Foote.

LORD
Lord, n. Etym: [Cf. Gr.

Defn: A hump-backed person; -- so called sportively. [Eng.]
Richardson (Dict.).

LORD
Lord, n. Etym: [OE. lord, laverd, loverd, AS. hlaford, for hlafweard,
i. e., bread keeper; hlaf bread, loaf + weardian to look after, to
take care of, to ward. See Loaf, and Ward to guard, and cf. Laird,
Lady.]

1. One who has power and authority; a master; a ruler; a governor; a
prince; a proprietor, as of a manor.
But now I was the lord Of this fair mansion. Shak.
Man over men He made not lord. Milton.

2. A titled nobleman., whether a peer of the realm or not; a bishop,
as a member of the House of Lords; by courtesy; the son of a duke or
marquis, or the eldest son of an earl; in a restricted sense, a
boron, as opposed to noblemen of higher rank. [Eng.]

3. A title bestowed on the persons above named; and also, for honor,
on certain official persons; as, lord advocate, lord chamberlain,
lord chancellor, lord chief justice, etc. [Eng.]

4. A husband. "My lord being old also." Gen. xviii. 12.
Thou worthy lord Of that unworthy wife that greeteth thee. Shak.

5. (Feudal Law)

Defn: One of whom a fee or estate is held; the male owner of feudal
land; as, the lord of the soil; the lord of the manor.

6. The Supreme Being; Jehovah.

Note: When Lord, in the Old Testament, is printed in small capitals,
it is usually equivalent to Jehovah, and might, with more propriety,
be so rendered.

7. The Savior; Jesus Christ. House of Lords, one of the constituent
parts of the British Parliament, consisting of the lords spiritual
and temporal.
 -- Lord high chancellor, Lord high constable, etc. See Chancellor,
Constable, etc.
 -- Lord justice clerk, the second in rank of the two highest judges
of the Supreme Court of Scotland.
 -- Lord justice general, or Lord president, the highest in rank of
the judges of the Supreme Court of Scotland.
 -- Lord keeper, an ancient officer of the English crown, who had the
custody of the king's great seal, with authority to affix it to
public documents. The office is now merged in that of the chancellor.
 -- Lord lieutenant, a representative of British royalty: the lord
lieutenant of Ireland being the representative of royalty there, and
exercising supreme administrative authority; the lord lieutenant of a
county being a deputy to manage its military concerns, and also to
nominate to the chancellor the justices of the peace for that county.
 -- Lord of misrule, the master of the revels at Christmas in a
nobleman's or other great house. Eng. Cyc.
 -- Lords spiritual, the archbishops and bishops who have seats in
the House of Lords.
 -- Lords temporal, the peers of England; also, sixteen
representative peers of Scotland, and twenty-eight representatives of
the Irish peerage.
 -- Our lord, Jesus Christ; the Savior.
 -- The Lord's Day, Sunday; the Christian Sabbath, on which the Lord
Jesus rose from the dead.
 -- The Lord's Prayer, the prayer which Jesus taught his disciples.
Matt. vi. 9-13.
 -- The Lord's Supper. (a) The paschal supper partaken of by Jesus
the night before his crucifixion. (b) The sacrament of the eucharist;
the holy communion.
 -- The Lord's Table. (a) The altar or table from which the sacrament
is dispensed. (b) The sacrament itself.

LORD
Lord, v. t.

1. To invest with the dignity, power, and privileges of a lord. [R.]
Shak.

2. To rule or preside over as a lord. [R.]

LORD
Lord, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lorded; p. pr. & vb. n. Lording.]

Defn: To play the lord; to domineer; to rule with arbitrary or
despotic sway; -- sometimes with over; and sometimes with it in the
manner of a transitive verb.
The whiles she lordeth in licentious bliss. Spenser.
I see them lording it in London streets. Shak.
And lorded over them whom now they serve. Milton.

LORDING
Lord"ing, n. Etym: [Lord + -ing, 3.]

1. The son of a lord; a person of noble lineage. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. A little lord; a lordling; a lord, in contempt or ridicule. [Obs.]
Swift.

Note: In the plural, a common ancient mode of address equivalent to
"Sirs" or "My masters."
Therefore, lordings all, I you beseech. Chaucer.

LORDKIN
Lord"kin, n.

Defn: A little lord. Thackeray.

LORDLIKE
Lord"like`, a. Etym: [2d lord + like. Cf. Lordly.]

1. Befitting or like a lord; lordly.

2. Haughty; proud; insolent; arrogant.

LORDLINESS
Lord"li*ness, n. Etym: [From Lordly.]

Defn: The state or quality of being lordly. Shak.

LORDLING
Lord"ling, n. Etym: [Lord + -ling.]

Defn: A little or insignificant lord. Goldsmith.

LORDLY
Lord"ly, a. [Compar. Lordlier; superl. Lordliest.] Etym: [Lord + -ly.
Cf. Lordlike.]

1. Suitable for a lord; of or pertaining to a lord; resembling a
lord; hence, grand; noble; dignified; honorable.
She brought forth butter in a lordly dish. Judges v. 25.
Lordly sins require lordly estates to support them. South.
The maidens gathered strength and grace And presence, lordlier than
before. Tennyson.

2. Proud; haughty; imperious; insolent.
Lords are lordliest in their wine. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Imperious; haughty; overbearing; tyrannical; despotic;
domineering; arrogant. See Imperious.

LORDLY
Lord"ly, adv.

Defn: In a lordly manner.

LORDOLATRY
Lord*ol"a*try, n. Etym: [Lord + -olatry, as in idolatry.]

Defn: Worship of, or reverence for, a lord as such. [Jocose]
But how should it be otherwise in a country where lordolatry is part
of our creed Thackeray.

LORDOSIS
Lor*do"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)
(a) A curvature of the spine forwards, usually in the lumbar region.
(b) Any abnormal curvature of the bones.

LORDS AND LADIES
Lords" and La"dies. (Bot.)

Defn: The European wake-robin (Arum maculatum), -- those with
purplish spadix the lords, and those with pale spadix the ladies. Dr.
Prior.

LORDSHIP
Lord"ship, n.

1. The state or condition of being a lord; hence (with his or your),
a title applied to a lord (except an archbishop or duke, who is
called Grace) or a judge (in Great Britain), etc.

2. Seigniory; domain; the territory over which a lord holds
jurisdiction; a manor.
What lands and lordships for their owner know My quondam barber.
Dryden.

3. Dominion; power; authority.
They which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship
over them. Mark x. 42.

LORE
Lore, n. Etym: [F. lore, L. lorum thong.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The space between the eye and bill, in birds, and the
corresponding region in reptiles and fishes.
(b) The anterior portion of the cheeks of insects.

LORE
Lore, obs. imp. & p. p. of Lose. Etym: [See Lose.]

Defn: Lost.
Neither of them she found where she them lore. Spenser.

LORE
Lore, n. Etym: [OE. lore, lare, AS. lar, fr. l to teach; akin to D.
leer teaching, doctrine, G. lehre, Dan. lære, Sw. lära. See Learn,
and cf. Lere, v. t.]

1. That which is or may be learned or known; the knowledge gained
from tradition, books, or experience; often, the whole body of
knowledge possessed by a people or class of people, or pertaining to
a particular subject; as, the lore of the Egyptians; priestly lore;
legal lore; folklore. "The lore of war." Fairfax.
His fair offspring, nursed in princely lore. Milton.

2. That which is taught; hence, instruction; wisdom; advice; counsel.
Chaucer.
If please ye, listen to my lore. Spenser.

3. Workmanship. [Obs.] Spenser.

LOREAL; LORAL
Lor"e*al, Lor"al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the lore; -- said of certain feathers of
birds, scales of reptiles, etc.

LOREL
Lor"el, n. [Losel.]

Defn: A good for nothing fellow; a vagabond. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOREN
Lor"en, obs. strong p. p.

Defn: of Lose. Chaucer.

LORESMAN
Lores"man, n. Etym: [Lorelearning + man.]

Defn: An instructor. [Obs.] Gower.

LORETO NUNS; LORETTO NUNS
Lo*ret"o, or Lo*ret"to, nuns. [From Loreto, a city in Italy famous
for its Holy House, said to be that in which Jesus lived, brought by
angels from Nazareth.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: Members of a congregation of nuns founded by Mrs. Mary Teresa
Ball, near Dublin, Ireland, in 1822, and now spread over Ireland,
India, Canada, and the United States. The nuns are called also Ladies
of Loreto. They are engaged in teaching girls.

LORETTE
Lo`rette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: In France, a name for a woman who is supported by her lovers,
and devotes herself to idleness, show, and pleasure; -- so called
from the church of Notre Dame de Lorette, in Paris, near which many
of them resided.

LORETTINE
Lo`ret*tine", n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: One of a order of nuns founded in 1812 at Loretto, in Kentucky.
The members of the order (called also Sisters of Loretto, or Friends
of Mary at the Foot of the Cross) devote themselves to the cause of
education and the care of destitute orphans, their labors being
chiefly confined to the Western United States.

LORGNETTE
Lor`gnette" n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An opera glass; pl.

Defn: elaborate double eyeglasses.

LORI
Lo"ri, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Lory.

LORICA
Lo*ri"ca, n.; pl. Loricæ. Etym: [L., lit., a corselet of thongs, fr.
lorum thong.]

1. (Anc. Armor)

Defn: A cuirass, originally of leather, afterward of plates of metal
or horn sewed on linen or the like.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Lute for protecting vessels from the fire.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The protective case or shell of an infusorian or rotifer.

LORICATA
Lor`i*ca"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Loricata.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A suborder of edentates, covered with bony plates, including the
armadillos.
(b) The crocodilia.

LORICATE
Lor"i*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Loricated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Loricating.] Etym: [L. loricatus, p. p. of loricare to clothe in
mail, to cover with plastering, fr. lorica a leather cuirass, a
plastering, fr. lorum thong.]

Defn: To cover with some protecting substance, as with lute, a crust,
coating, or plates.

LORICATE
Lor"i*cate, a. Etym: [See Loricate, v.]

Defn: Covered with a shell or exterior made of plates somewhat like a
coat of mail, as in the armadillo.

LORICATE
Lor"i*cate, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal covered with bony scales, as crocodiles among
reptiles, and the pangolins among mammals.

LORICATION
Lor`i*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. loricatio.]

Defn: The act of loricating; the protecting substance put on; a
covering of scales or plates.

LORIKEET
Lor"i*keet, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one numerous species of small brush-tongued parrots or
lories, found mostly in Australia, New Guinea and the adjacent
islands, with some forms in the East Indies. They are arboreal in
their habits and feed largely upon the honey of flowers. They belong
to Trichoglossus, Loriculus, and several allied genera.

LORIMER; LORINER
Lor"i*mer, Lor"i*ner, n. Etym: [OF. lormier, loremier, fr. LL.
loranum bridle, L. lorum thong, the rein of a bridle.]

Defn: A maker of bits, spurs, and metal mounting for bridles and
saddles; hence, a saddler. [Obs.] Holinshed.

LORING
Lor"ing, n. Etym: [See 3d Lore.]

Defn: Instructive discourse. [Obs.] Spenser.

LORIOT
Lo"ri*ot, n. Etym: [F., fr. OF. loriou, for l'oriol, , l' being the
article. The same word as oriole. See Oriole.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The golden oriole of Europe. See Oriole.

LORIS
Lo"ris, n. Etym: [Loris, or lori, the indigenous East Indian name.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small lemurs of the genus
Stenops. They have long, slender limbs and large eyes, and are
arboreal in their habits. The slender loris (S. gracilis), of Ceylon,
in one of the best known species. [Written also lori.]

LORN
Lorn, a. Etym: [Strong p. p. of Lose. See Lose, Forlorn.]

1. Lost; undone; ruined. [Archaic]
If thou readest, thou art lorn. Sir W. Scott.

2. Forsaken; abandoned; solitary; bereft; as, a lone, lorn woman.

LORRIE; LORRY
Lor"rie, Lor"ry, n.; pl. Lorries. Etym: [Prob. from lurry to pull or
lug.]

Defn: A small cart or wagon, as those used on the tramways in mines
to carry coal or rubbish; also, a barrow or truck for shifting
baggage, as at railway stations.

LORY
Lo"ry, n.; pl. Lories. Etym: [Hind. & Malay. luri, nuri.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of many species of small parrots of the family
Trichoglossidæ, generally having the tongue papillose at the tip, and
the mandibles straighter and less toothed than in common parrots.
They are found in the East Indies, Australia, New Guinea, and the
adjacent islands. They feed mostly on soft fruits and on the honey of
flowers.

Note: The lory, or louri, of South Africa is the white-crested
plantain eater or turacou. See Turacou.

LOS
Los, n.

Defn: Praise. See Loos. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOSABLE
Los"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be lost.

LOSANGE
Los"ange, n.

Defn: See Lozenge.

LOSE
Lose, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Losing.] Etym: [OE. losien to loose, be
lost, lose, AS. losian to become loose; akin to OE. leosen to lose,
p. p. loren, lorn, AS. leósan, p. p. loren (in comp.), D. verliezen,
G. verlieren, Dan. forlise, Sw. förlisa, förlora, Goth. fraliusan,
also to E. loose, a & v., L. luere to loose, Gr. l to cut. sq.
root127. Cf. Analysis, Palsy, Solve, Forlorn, Leasing, Loose, Loss.]

1. To part with unintentionally or unwillingly, as by accident,
misfortune, negligence, penalty, forfeit, etc.; to be deprived of;
as, to lose money from one's purse or pocket, or in business or
gaming; to lose an arm or a leg by amputation; to lose men in battle.
Fair Venus wept the sad disaster Of having lost her favorite dove.
Prior.

2. To cease to have; to possess no longer; to suffer diminution of;
as, to lose one's relish for anything; to lose one's health.
If the salt hath lost his savor, wherewith shall it be salted Matt.
v. 13.

3. Not to employ; to employ ineffectually; to throw away; to waste;
to squander; as, to lose a day; to lose the benefits of instruction.
The unhappy have but hours, and these they lose. Dryden.

4. To wander from; to miss, so as not to be able to and; to go astray
from; as, to lose one's way.
He hath lost his fellows. Shak

5. To ruin; to destroy; as destroy; as, the ship was lost on the
ledge.
The woman that deliberates is lost. Addison.

6. To be deprived of the view of; to cease to see or know the
whereabouts of; as, he lost his companion in the crowd.
Like following life thro' creatures you dissect, You lose it in the
moment you detect. Pope
.

7. To fail to obtain or enjoy; to fail to gain or win; hence, to fail
to catch with the mind or senses; to miss; as, I lost a part of what
he said.
He shall in no wise lose his reward. Matt. x. 42.
I fought the battle bravely which I lost, And lost it but to
Macedonians. Dryden.

8. To cause to part with; to deprive of. [R.]
How should you go about to lose him a wife he loves with so much
passion Sir W. Temple.

9. To prevent from gaining or obtaining.
O false heart ! thou hadst almost betrayed me to eternal flames, and
lost me this glory. Baxter.
To lose ground, to fall behind; to suffer gradual loss or
disadvantage.
 -- To lose heart, to lose courage; to become timid. "The mutineers
lost heart." Macaulay.
 -- To lose one's head, to be thrown off one's balance; to lose the
use of one's good sense or judgment.
In the excitement of such a discovery, many scholars lost their
heads. Whitney.
-- To lose one's self. (a) To forget or mistake the bearing of
surrounding objects; as, to lose one's self in a great city. (b) To
have the perceptive and rational power temporarily suspended; as, we
lose ourselves in sleep.
 -- To lose sight of. (a) To cease to see; as, to lose sight of the
land. (b) To overlook; to forget; to fail to perceive; as, he lost
sight of the issue.

LOSE
Lose, v. i.

Defn: To suffer loss, disadvantage, or defeat; to be worse off, esp.
as the result of any kind of contest.
We 'll . . . hear poor rogues Talk of court news; and we'll talk with
them too, Who loses and who wins; who's in, who's out. Shak.

LOSEL
Los"el, n. Etym: [From the root of lose, loss. Lorel.]

Defn: One who loses by sloth or neglect; a worthless person; a lorel.
[Archaic] Spenser.
One sad losel soils a name for aye. Byron.

LOSEL
Los"el, a.

Defn: Wasteful; slothful.

LOSENGER
Los"en*ger, n. Etym: [OF. losengier, losengeor, fr. losengier to
deceive, flatter, losenge, flattery, Pr. lauzenga, fr. L. laus
praise. Cf. Lozenge.]

Defn: A flatterer; a deceiver; a cozener. [Obs.] Chaucer.
To a fair pair of gallows, there to end their lives with shame, as a
number of such other losengers had done. Holinshed.

LOSENGERIE
Los"en*ger*ie, n. Etym: [OF.]

Defn: Flattery; deceit; trickery. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOSER
Los"er, n.

Defn: One who loses. South.

LOSING
Lo"sing, a. Etym: [See Losenger.]

Defn: Given to flattery or deceit; flattering; cozening. [Obs.]
Amongst the many simoniacal that swarmed in the land, Herbert, Bishop
of Thetford, must not be forgotten; nick-named Losing, that is, the
Fratterer. Fuller.

LOSING
Los"ing, a. Etym: [See Lose, v. t.]

Defn: Causing or incurring loss; as, a losing game or business.
Who strive sit out losing hands are lost. Herbert.

LOSINGLY
Los"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner to incur loss.

LOSS
Loss, n. Etym: [AS. los loss, losing, fr. leósan to lose. Lose, v.
t.]

1. The act of losing; failure; destruction; privation; as, the loss
of property; loss of money by gaming; loss of health or reputation.
Assured loss before the match be played. Shak.

2. The state of losing or having lost; the privation, defect,
misfortune, harm, etc., which ensues from losing.
Though thou repent, yet I have still the loss. Shak

3. That which is lost or from which one has parted; waste; -- opposed
to gain or increase; as, the loss of liquor by leakage was
considerable.

4. The state of being lost or destroyed; especially, the wreck or
foundering of a ship or other vessel.

5. Failure to gain or win; as, loss of a race or battle.

6. Failure to use advantageously; as, loss of time.

7. (Mil.)

Defn: Killed, wounded, and captured persons, or captured property.

8. (Insurance)

Defn: Destruction or diminution of value, if brought about in a
manner provided for in the insurance contract (as destruction by fire
or wreck, damage by water or smoke), or the death or injury of an
insured person; also, the sum paid or payable therefor; as, the
losses of the company this year amount to a million of dollars. To
bear a loss, to make a loss good; also, to sustain a loss without
sinking under it.
 -- To be at a loss, to be in a state of uncertainty.

Syn.
 -- Privation; detriment; injury; damage.

LOSSFUL
Loss"ful, a.

Defn: Detrimental. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

LOSSLESS
Loss"less, a.

Defn: Free from loss. [Obs.] Milton.

LOST
Lost, a. Etym: [Prop. p. p. of OE. losien. See Lose, v. t.]

1. Parted with unwillingly or unintentionally; not to be found;
missing; as, a lost book or sheep.

2. Parted with; no longer held or possessed; as, a lost limb; lost
honor.

3. Not employed or enjoyed; thrown away; employed ineffectually;
wasted; squandered; as, a lost day; a lost opportunity or benefit.

5. Having wandered from, or unable to find, the way; bewildered;
perplexed; as, a child lost in the woods; a stranger lost in London.

6. Ruined or destroyed, either physically or morally; past help or
hope; as, a ship lost at sea; a woman lost to virtue; a lost soul.

7. Hardened beyond sensibility or recovery; alienated; insensible;
as, lost to shame; lost to all sense of honor.

8. Not perceptible to the senses; no longer visible; as, an island
lost in a fog; a person lost in a crowd.

9. Occupied with, or under the influence of, something, so as to be
insensible of external things; as, to be lost in thought. Lost motion
(Mach.), the difference between the motion of a driver and that of a
follower, due to the yielding of parts or looseness of joints.

LOT
Lot, n. Etym: [AS. hlot; akin to hleótan to cast lots, OS. hl lot, D.
lot, G. loos, OHG. l, Icel. hlutr, Sw. lott, Dan. lod, Goth. hlauts.
Cf. Allot, Lotto, Lottery.]

1. That which happens without human design or forethought; chance;
accident; hazard; fortune; fate.
But save my life, which lot before your foot doth lay. Spenser.

2. Anything (as a die, pebble, ball, or slip of paper) used in
determining a question by chance, or without man's choice or will;
as, to cast or draw lots.
The lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of
the Lord. Prov. xvi. 33.
If we draw lots, he speeds. Shak.

3. The part, or fate, which falls to one, as it were, by chance, or
without his planning.
O visions ill foreseen! Each day's lot's Enough to bear. Milton.
He was but born to try The lot of man -- to suffer and to die. Pope.

4. A separate portion; a number of things taken collectively; as, a
lot of stationery; -- colloquially, sometimes of people; as, a sorry
lot; a bad lot.
I, this winter, met with a very large lot of English heads, chiefly
of the reign of James I. Walpole.

5. A distinct portion or plot of land, usually smaller than a field;
as, a building lot in a city.
The defendants leased a house and lot in the city of New York. Kent.

6. A large quantity or number; a great deal; as, to spend a lot of
money; lots of people think so. [Colloq.]
He wrote to her . . . he might be detained in London by a lot of
business. W. Black.

7. A prize in a lottery. [Obs.] Evelyn. To cast in one's lot with, to
share the fortunes of.
 -- To cast lots, to use or throw a die, or some other instrument, by
the unforeseen turn or position of which, an event is by previous
agreement determined.
 -- To draw lots, to determine an event, or make a decision, by
drawing one thing from a number whose marks are concealed from the
drawer.
 -- To pay scot and lot, to pay taxes according to one's ability. See
Scot.

LOT
Lot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Lotting.]

Defn: To allot; to sort; to portion. [R.] To lot on or upon, to count
or reckon upon; to expect with pleasure. [Colloq. U. S.]

LOTE
Lote, n. Etym: [L. lotus, Gr. Lotus.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large tree (Celtis australis), found in the south of Europe.
It has a hard wood, and bears a cherrylike fruit. Called also nettle
tree. Eng. Cyc.

LOTE
Lote, n. Etym: [F. lotte.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European burbot.

LOTE
Lote, v. i. Etym: [AS. lutian.]

Defn: To lurk; to lie hid. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOTH; LOTHLY; LOTHSOME
Loth, a., Loth"ly, a. & adv., Loth"some (, a.,

Defn: See Loath, Loathly, etc.

LOTHARIO
Lo*tha"ri*o, n. Etym: [Name of a character in Rowe's drama, "The Fair
Penitent."]

Defn: A gay seducer of women; a libertine.

LOTION
Lo"tion, n. Etym: [L. lotio, fr. lavare, lotum, to wash: cf. F.
lotion. See Lave to wash.]

1. A washing, especially of the skin for the purpose of rendering it
fair.

2. A liquid preparation for bathing the skin, or an injured or
diseased part, either for a medicinal purpose, or for improving its
appearance.

LOTO
Lo"to, n.

Defn: See Lotto.

LOTONG
Lo*tong", n. Etym: [Malay l.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An East Indian monkey (Semnopithecus femoralis).

LOTOPHAGI
Lo*toph"a*gi, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A people visited by Ulysses in his wanderings. They subsisted
on the lotus. See Lotus (b), and Lotus-eater.

LOTOS
Lo"tos, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: See Lotus.

LOTTERY
Lot"ter*y, n.; pl. Lotteries. Etym: [Lot + -ery, as in brewery,
bindery.]

1. A scheme for the distribution of prizes by lot or chance; esp., a
gaming scheme in which one or more tickets bearing particular numbers
draw prizes, and the rest of tickets are blanks. Fig. : An affair of
chance.

Note: The laws of the United States and of most of the States make
lotteries illegal.

2. Allotment; thing allotted. [Obs.] Shak.

LOTTO
Lot"to, n. Etym: [F. loto or It. lotto, prop., a lot; of German
origin. See Lot.]

Defn: A game of chance, played with cards, on which are inscribed
numbers, and any contrivance (as a wheel containing numbered balls)
for determining a set of numbers by chance. The player holding a card
having on it the set of numbers drawn from the wheel takes the stakes
after a certain percentage of them has been deducted for the dealer.
A variety of lotto is called keno. [Often written loto.]

LOTURE
Lo"ture, n. Etym: [L. lotura. See Lotion.]

Defn: See Lotion. [Obs.] Holland.

LOTUS
Lo"tus, n. Etym: [L. lotus, Gr. Lote.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) A name of several kinds of water lilies; as Nelumbium speciosum,
used in religious ceremonies, anciently in Egypt, and to this day in
Asia; Nelumbium luteum, the American lotus; and Nymphæa Lotus and N.
cærulea, the respectively white-flowered and blue-flowered lotus of
modern Egypt, which, with Nelumbium speciosum, are figured on its
ancient monuments.
(b) The lotus of the lotuseaters, probably a tree found in Northern
Africa, Sicily, Portugal, and Spain (Zizyphus Lotus), the fruit of
which is mildly sweet. It was fabled by the ancients to make
strangers who ate of it forget their native country, or lose all
desire to return to it.
(c) The lote, or nettle tree. See Lote.
(d) A genus (Lotus) of leguminous plants much resembling clover.
[Written also lotos.] European lotus, a small tree (Diospyros Lotus)
of Southern Europe and Asia; also, its rather large bluish black
berry, which is called also the date plum.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament much used in Egyptian architecture, generally
asserted to have been suggested by the Egyptian water lily.

LOTUS-EATER; LOTOS-EATER
Lo"tus-eat`er, Lo"tos-eat`er, n. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: One who ate the fruit or leaf of the lotus, and, as a
consequence, gave himself up to indolence and daydreams; one of the
Lotophagi.
The mild-eyed melancholy Lotos-eaters. Tennyson.

LOUCHETTES
Lou*chettes", n. pl. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Goggles intended to rectify strabismus by permitting vision
only directly in front. Knight.

LOUD
Loud, a. [Compar. Louder; superl. Loudest.] Etym: [OE. loud, lud, AS.
hl; akin to OS. hl, D. luid, OHG. l, G. laut, L. -clutus, in
inclutus, inclitus, celebrated, renowned, cluere to be called, Gr. .
Client, Listen, Slave a serf.]

1. Having, making, or being a strong or great sound; noisy; striking
the ear with great force; as, a loud cry; loud thunder.
They were instant with loud voices, requiring that he might be
crucified. Luke xxiii. 23.

2. Clamorous; boisterous.
She is loud and stubborn. Prov. vii. 11.

3. Emphatic; impressive; urgent; as, a loud call for united effort.
[Colloq.]

4. Ostentatious; likely to attract attention; gaudy; as, a loud style
of dress; loud colors. [Slang]

Syn.
 -- Noisy; boisterous; vociferous; clamorous; obstreperous;
turbulent; blustering; vehement.

LOUD
Loud, adv. Etym: [AS. hlude.]

Defn: With loudness; loudly.
To speak loud in public assemblies. Addison.

LOUDFUL
Loud"ful, a.

Defn: Noisy. [Obs.] Marsion.

LOUDLY
Loud"ly, adv.

Defn: In a loud manner. Denham.

LOUD-MOUTHED
Loud"-mouthed`, a.

Defn: Having a loud voice; talking or sounding noisily; noisily
impudent.

LOUDNESS
Loud"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being loud.

LOUD-VOICED
Loud"-voiced`, a.

Defn: Having a loud voice; noisy; clamorous. Byron.

LOUGH
Lough, n. Etym: [See 1st Loch.]

Defn: A loch or lake; -- so spelt in Ireland.

LOUGH
Lough, obs. strong imp.

Defn: of Laugh. Chaucer.

LOUIS D'OR
Lou"is d'or`. Etym: [F., gold louis.]

Defn: Formerly, a gold coin of France nominally worth twenty
shillings sterling, but of varying value; -- first struck in 1640.

LOUIS QUATORZE
Lon"is qua*torze". Etym: [F., Louis fourteenth.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the art or style of the times
of Louis XIV. of France; as, Louis quatorze architecture.

LOUK
Louk, n.

Defn: An accomplice; a "pal." [Obs.]
There is no thief without a louk. Chaucer.

LOUNGE
Lounge, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lounged; p. pr. & vb. n. Lounging.] Etym:
[OE. lungis a tall, slow, awkward fellow, OF. longis, longin, said to
be fr. Longinus, the name of the centurion who pierced the body of
Christ, but with reference also to L. longus long. Cf. Long, a.]

Defn: To spend time lazily, whether lolling or idly sauntering; to
pass time indolently; to stand, sit, or recline, in an indolent
manner.
We lounge over the sciences, dawdle through literature, yawn over
politics. J. Hannay.

LOUNGE
Lounge, n.

1. An idle gait or stroll; the state of reclining indolently; a place
of lounging.
She went with Lady Stock to a bookseller's whose shop lounge. Miss
Edgeworth.

2. A piece of furniture resembling a sofa, upon which one may lie or
recline.

LOUNGER
Loun"ger, n.

Defn: One who lounges; ar idler.

LOUP
Loup, n. (Iron Works)

Defn: See 1st Loop.

LOUP-CERVIER
Loup"-cer`vier", n. Etym: [F. Cf. Lusern.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Canada lynx. See Lynx.

LOUP-GAROU
Loup`-ga`rou", n.; pl. Loups-garous (#). [F., fr. loup wolf + a
Teutonic word akin to E. werewolf.]

Defn: A werewolf; a lycanthrope.

The superstition of the loup-garou, or werewolf, belongs to the
folklore of most modern nations, and has its reflex in the story of
"Little Red Riding-hood" and others.
Brinton.

LOUPING
Loup"ing. [From Loup to leap.] (Veter.)

Defn: An enzoötic, often fatal, disease of sheep and other domestic
animals, of unknown cause. It is characterized by muscular tremors
and spasms, followed by more or less complete paralysis. The
principal lesion is an inflammation of the membranes covering the
brain and spinal cord.

LOUP-LOUP
Loup`-loup", n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Pomeranian or Spitz dog.

LOUPS
Loups, n. pl.; sing. Loup. Etym: [F., prop., a wolf.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: The Pawnees, a tribe of North American Indians whose principal
totem was the wolf.

LOUR
Lour, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Asiatic sardine (Clupea Neohowii), valued for its oil.

LOURI
Lou"ri, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lory.

LOUSE
Louse, n.; pl. Lice. Etym: [OE. lous, AS. l, pl. l; akin to D. luis,
G. laus, OHG. l, Icel. l, Sw. lus, Dan. luus; perh. so named because
it is destructive, and akin to E. lose, loose.] (Zoöl.)

1. Any one of numerous species of small, wingless, suctorial,
parasitic insects belonging to a tribe (Pediculina), now usually
regarded as degraded Hemiptera. To this group belong of the lice of
man and other mammals; as, the head louse of man (Pediculus capitis),
the body louse (P. vestimenti), and the crab louse (Phthirius pubis),
and many others. See Crab louse, Dog louse, Cattle louse, etc., under
Crab, Dog, etc.

2. Any one of numerous small mandibulate insects, mostly parasitic on
birds, and feeding on the feathers. They are known as Mallophaga, or
bird lice, though some occur on the hair of mammals. They are usually
regarded as degraded Pseudoneuroptera. See Mallophaga.

3. Any one of the numerous species of aphids, or plant lice. See
Aphid.

4. Any small crustacean parasitic on fishes. See Branchiura, and
Ichthvophthira.

Note: The term is also applied to various other parasites; as, the
whale louse, beelouse, horse louse. Louse fly (Zoöl.), a parasitic
dipterous insect of the group Pupipara. Some of them are wingless, as
the bee louse.
 -- Louse mite (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of mites which
infest mammals and birds, clinging to the hair and feathers like
lice. They belong to Myobia, Dermaleichus, Mycoptes, and several
other genera.

LOUSE
Louse, v. t.

Defn: To clean from lice. "You sat and loused him." Swift.

LOUSEWORT
Louse"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any species of Pedicularis, a genus of perennial herbs. It was
said to make sheep that fed on it lousy. Yellow lousewort , a plant
of the genus Rhinanthus.

LOUSILY
Lous"i*ly, adv. Etym: [From Lousy.]

Defn: In a lousy manner; in a mean, paltry manner; scurvily. [Vulgar]

LOUSINESS
Lous"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being lousy.

LOUSY
Lous"y, a.

1. Infested with lice.

2. Mean; contemptible; as, lousy knave. [Vulgar]
Such lousy learning as this is. Bale.

LOUT
Lout, v. i. Etym: [OE. louten, luten, AS. l; akin to Icel. l, Dan.
lude, OHG. l to lie hid.]

Defn: To bend; to box; to stoop. [Archaic] Chaucer. Longfellow.
He fair the knight saluted, louting low. Spenser.

LOUT
Lout, n. Etym: [Formerly also written lowt.]

Defn: A clownish, awkward fellow; a bumpkin. Sir P. Sidney.

LOUT
Lout, v. t.

Defn: To treat as a lout or fool; to neglect; to disappoint. [Obs.]
Shak.

LOUTISH
Lout"ish, a.

Defn: Clownish; rude; awkward. "Loutish clown." Sir P. Sidney.
 -- Lout"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Lout"*ish*ness, n.

LOUTOU
Lou*tou", n. Etym: [Native names.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A crested black monkey (Semnopithecus maurus) of Java.

LOUVER; LOUVRE
Lou"ver, Lou"vre, n. Etym: [OE. lover, OF. lover, lovier; or l'ouvert
the opening, fr. overt, ouvert, p. p. of ovrir, ouvrir, to open, F.
ouvrir. Cf. Overt.] (Arch.)

Defn: A small lantern. See Lantern, 2 (a) [Written also lover,
loover, lovery, and luffer.] Louver boards or boarding, the sloping
boards set to shed rainwater outward in openings which are to be left
otherwise unfilled; as belfry windows, the openings of a louver, etc.
 -- Louver work, slatted work.

LOVABLE
Lov"a*ble, a.

Defn: Having qualities that excite, or are fitted to excite, love;
worthy of love.
Elaine the fair, Elaine the lovable, Elaine, the lily maid of
Astolat. Tennyson.

LOVAGE
Lov"age, n. Etym: [F. livèche, fr. L. levisticum, ligusticum, a plant
indigenous to Liguria, lovage, from Ligusticus Ligustine, Ligurian,
Liguria a country of Cisalpine Gaul.] (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant (Levisticum officinale), sometimes used
in medicine as an aromatic stimulant.

LOVE
Love, n. Etym: [OE. love, luve, AS. lufe, lufu; akin to E.lief,
believe, L. lubet, libet,it pleases, Skr. lubh to be lustful. See
Lief.]

1. A feeling of strong attachment induced by that which delights or
commands admiration; preëminent kindness or devotion to another;
affection; tenderness; as, the love of brothers and sisters.
Of all the dearest bonds we prove Thou countest sons' and mothers'
love Most sacred, most Thine own. Keble.

2. Especially, devoted attachment to, or tender or passionate
affection for, one of the opposite sex.
He on his side Leaning half-raised, with looks of cordial love Hung
over her enamored. Milton.

3. Courtship; -- chiefly in the phrase to make love, i. e., to court,
to woo, to solicit union in marriage.
Demetrius . . . Made love to Nedar's daughter, Helena, And won her
soul. Shak.

4. Affection; kind feeling; friendship; strong liking or desire;
fondness; good will; -- opposed to hate; often with of and an object.
Love, and health to all. Shak.
Smit with the love of sacred song. Milton.
The love of science faintly warmed his breast. Fenton.

5. Due gratitude and reverence to God.
Keep yourselves in the love of God. Jude 21.

6. The object of affection; -- often employed in endearing address.
"Trust me, love." Dryden.
Open the temple gates unto my love. Spenser.

7. Cupid, the god of love; sometimes, Venus.
Such was his form as painters, when they show Their utmost art, on
naked Lores bestow. Dryden.
Therefore do nimble-pinioned doves draw Love. Shak.

8. A thin silk stuff. [Obs.] Boyle.

9. (Bot.)

Defn: A climbing species of Clematis (C. Vitalba).

10. Nothing; no points scored on one side; -- used in counting score
at tennis, etc.
He won the match by three sets to love. The Field.

Note: Love is often used in the formation of compounds, in most of
which the meaning is very obvious; as, love-cracked, love-darting,
love-killing, love-linked, love-taught, etc. A labor of love, a labor
undertaken on account of regard for some person, or through pleasure
in the work itself, without expectation of reward.
 -- Free love, the doctrine or practice of consorting with one of the
opposite sex, at pleasure, without marriage. See Free love.
 -- Free lover, one who avows or practices free love.
 -- In love, in the act of loving; -- said esp. of the love of the
sexes; as, to be in love; to fall in love.
 -- Love apple (Bot.), the tomato.
 -- Love bird (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small, short-
tailed parrots, or parrakeets, of the genus Agapornis, and allied
genera. They are mostly from Africa. Some species are often kept as
cage birds, and are celebrated for the affection which they show for
their mates.
 -- Love broker, a person who for pay acts as agent between lovers,
or as a go-between in a sexual intrigue. Shak.
 -- Love charm, a charm for exciting love. Ld. Lytton.
 -- Love child. an illegitimate child. Jane Austen.
 -- Love day, a day formerly appointed for an amicable adjustment of
differences. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Chaucer.
 -- Love drink, a love potion; a philter. Chaucer.
 -- Love favor, something given to be worn in token of love.
 -- Love feast, a religious festival, held quarterly by some
religious denominations, as the Moravians and Methodists, in
imitation of the agapæ of the early Christians.
 -- Love feat, the gallant act of a lover. Shak.
 -- Love game, a game, as in tennis, in which the vanquished person
or party does not score a point.
 -- Love grass. Etym: [G. liebesgras.] (Bot.) Any grass of the genus
Eragrostis.
 -- Love-in-a-mist. (Bot.) (a) An herb of the Buttercup family
(Nigella Damascena) having the flowers hidden in a maze of finely cut
bracts. (b) The West Indian Passiflora foetida, which has similar
bracts.
 -- Love-in-idleness (Bot.), a kind of violet; the small pansy.
A little western flower, Before milk-white, now purple with love's
wound; And maidens call it love-in-idleness. Shak.
-- Love juice, juice of a plant supposed to produce love. Shak.
 -- Love knot, a knot or bow, as of ribbon; -- so called from being
used as a token of love, or as a pledge of mutual affection. Milman.
 -- Love lass, a sweetheart.
 -- Love letter, a letter of courtship. Shak.
 -- Love-lies-bleeding (Bot.), a species of amaranth (Amarantus
melancholicus).
 -- Love match, a marriage brought about by love alone.
 -- Love potion, a compounded draught intended to excite love, or
venereal desire.
 -- Love rites, sexual intercourse. Pope -- Love scene, an exhibition
of love, as between lovers on the stage.
 -- Love suit, courtship. Shak.
 -- Of all loves, for the sake of all love; by all means. [Obs.]
"Mrs. Arden desired him of all loves to come back again." Holinshed.
 -- The god of love, or Love god, Cupid.
 -- To make love to, to express affection for; to woo. "If you will
marry, make your loves to me." Shak.
 -- To play for love, to play a game, as at cards, without stakes. "A
game at piquet for love." Lamb.

Syn.
 -- Affection; friendship; kindness; tenderness; fondness; delight.

LOVE
Love, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Loved; p. pr. & vb. n. Loving.] Etym: [AS.
lufian. Love, n.]

1. To have a feeling of love for; to regard with affection or good
will; as, to love one's children and friends; to love one's country;
to love one's God.
Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy
soul, and with all thy mind. Matt. xxii. 37.
Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thy self. Matt. xxii. 39.

2. To regard with passionate and devoted affection, as that of one
sex for the other.

3. To take delight or pleasure in; to have a strong liking or desire
for, or interest in; to be pleased with; to like; as, to love books;
to love adventures.
Wit, eloquence, and poetry. Arts which I loved. Cowley.

LOVE
Love, v. i.

Defn: To have the feeling of love; to be in love.

LOVEABLE
Love"a*ble, a.

Defn: See Lovable.

LOVE-DRURY
Love"-*dru`ry, n. Etym: [Love + OF. druerie. Cf. Druery.]

Defn: Affection. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOVEE
Lov*ee", n.

Defn: One who is loved. [Humorous] "The lover and lovee." Richardson.

LOVEFUL
Love"ful, a.

Defn: Full of love. [Obs.] Sylvester.

LOVELESS
Love"less, a.

1. Void of love; void of tenderness or kindness. Milton. Shelton.

2. Not attracting love; unattractive.
These are ill-favored to see to; and yet, asloveless as they be, they
are not without some medicinable virtues. Holland.

LOVELILY
Love"li*ly, adv. Etym: [From Lovely.]

Defn: In manner to excite love; amiably. [R.] Otway.

LOVELINESS
Love"li*ness, n. Etym: [From Lovely.]

Defn: The state or quality of being lovely.
If there is such a native loveliness in the sex as to make them
victorious when in the wrong, how resistless their power when they
are on the side of truth! Spectator.

LOVELOCK
Love"lock`, n.

Defn: A long lock of hair hanging prominently by itself; an earlock;
-- worn by men of fashion in the reigns of Elizabeth and James I.
Burton.
A long lovelock and long hair he wore. Sir W. Scott.

LOVELORN
Love"lorn`, a.

Defn: Forsaken by one's love.
The lovelorn nightingale. Milton.

LOVELY
Love"ly, a. [Compar. Lovelier; superl. Loveliest.] Etym: [AS.
luflic.]

1. Having such an appearance as excites, or is fitted to excite,
love; beautiful; charming; very pleasing in form, looks, tone, or
manner. "Lovely to look on." Piers Plowman.
Not one so fair of face, of speech so lovely. Robert of Brunne.
If I had such a tire, this face of mine Were full as lovely as is
this of hers. Shak.

2. Lovable; amiable; having qualities of any kind which excite, or
are fitted to excite, love or friendship.
A most lovely gentlemanlike man. Shak.

3. Loving; tender. [Obs.] "A lovely kiss." Shak.
Many a lovely look on them he cast. Chaucer.

4. Very pleasing; -- applied loosely to almost anything which is not
grand or merely pretty; as, a lovely view; a lovely valley; a lovely
melody.
Indeed these fields Are lovely, lovelier not the Elysian lawns.
Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- Beautiful; charming; delightful; delectable; enchanting; lovable;
amiable.

LOVELY
Love"ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner to please, or to excite love. [Obs. or R.] Tyndale.

LOVE-MAKING
Love"-mak`ing, n.

Defn: Courtship. Bacon.

LOVEMONGER
Love"mon`ger, n.

Defn: One who deals in affairs of love.[Obs.] Shak.

LOVER
Lov"er, n.

1. One who loves; one who is in love; -- usually limited, in the
singular, to a person of the male sex. Gower.
Love is blind, and lovers can not see The pretty follies that
themselves commit. Shak.

2. A friend; one strongly attached to another; one who greatly
desires the welfare of any person or thing; as, a lover of his
country.
I slew my best lover for the good of Rome. Shak.

3. One who has a strong liking for anything, as books, science, or
music. "A lover of knowledge." T. Burnet.

LOVER; LOVERY
Lo"ver, Lo"ver*y, n.

Defn: See Louver. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

LOVERWISE
Lo"ver*wise`, adv.

Defn: As lovers do.
As they sat down here loverwise. W. D. Howells.

LOVE-SICK
Love"-sick`, a.

1. Languishing with love or amorous desire; as, a love-sick maid.
To the dear mistress of my love-sick mind. Dryden.

2. Originating in, or expressive of, languishing love.
Where nightingales their love-sick ditty sing. Dryden.

LOVE-SICKNESS
Love"-sick`ness, n.

Defn: The state of being love-sick.

LOVESOME
Love"some, a. Etym: [AS. lufsum.]

Defn: Lovely. [Obs.]

LOVING
Lov"ing, a.

1. Affectionate.
The fairest and most loving wife in Greece. Tennyson.

2. Expressing love or kindness; as, loving words.

LOVING CUP
Lov"ing cup`.

Defn: A large ornamental drinking vessel having two or more handles,
intended to pass from hand to hand, as at a banquet.

LOVING-KINDNESS
Lov"ing-kind"ness, n.

Defn: Tender regard; mercy; favor. Ps. lxxxix. 33.

LOVINGLY
Lov"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With love; affectionately.

LOVINGNESS
Lov"ing*ness, n.

Defn: Affection; kind regard.
The only two bands of good will, loveliness and lovingness. Sir. P.
Sidney.

LOVYER
Lov"yer, n.

Defn: A lover. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOW
Low, obs

Defn: , strong imp. of Laugh. Chaucer.

LOW
Low, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lowing.] Etym: [OE.
lowen, AS. hl; akin to D. loeijen, OHG. hl, hluojan.]

Defn: To make the calling sound of cows and other bovine animals; to
moo.
The lowing herd wind slowly o'er the lea. Gray.

LOW
Low, n.

Defn: The calling sound ordinarily made by cows and other bovine
animals.
Talking voices and the law of herds. Wordsworth.

LOW
Low, n. Etym: [AS. hlaw; akin to Goth. hlaiw a grave, hlains a hill,
and to E. lean to incline.]

Defn: A hill; a mound; a grave. [Obs. except in place names.] Skeat.

LOW
Low, n. Etym: [Icel. log, logi; akin to E. light, n.]

Defn: Fire; a flame; a light. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

LOW
Low, v. i.

Defn: To burn; to blaze. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Burns.

LOW
Low, a. [Compar. Lower; superl. Lowest.] Etym: [OE. low, louh, lah,
Icel. lagr; akin to Sw. låg, Dan. lav, D. laag, and E. lie. See Lie
to be prostrate.]

1. Occupying an inferior position or place; not high or elevated;
depressed in comparison with something else; as, low ground; a low
flight.

2. Not rising to the usual height; as, a man of low stature; a low
fence.

3. Near the horizon; as, the sun is low at four o'clock in winter,
and six in summer.

4. Sunk to the farthest ebb of the tide; as, low tide.

5. Beneath the usual or remunerative rate or amount, or the ordinary
value; moderate; cheap; as, the low price of corn; low wages.

6. Not loud; as, a low voice; a low sound.

7. (Mus.)

Defn: Depressed in the scale of sounds; grave; as, a low pitch; a low
note.

8. (Phon.)

Defn: Made, as a vowel, with a low position of part of the tongue in
relation to the palate; as, . See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 5, 10,
11.

9. Near, or not very distant from, the equator; as, in the low
northern latitudes.

10. Numerically small; as, a low number.

11. Wanting strength or animation; depressed; dejected; as, low
spirits; low in spirits.

12. Depressed in condition; humble in rank; as, men of low condition;
the lower classes.
Why but to keep ye low and ignorant Milton.

13. Mean; vulgar; base; dishonorable; as, a person of low mind; a low
trick or stratagem.

14. Not elevated or sublime; not exalted or diction; as, a low
comparison.
In comparison of these divine writers, the noblest wits of the
heathen world are low and dull. Felton.

15. Submissive; humble. "Low reverence." Milton.

16. Deficient in vital energy; feeble; weak; as, a low pulse; made
low by sickness.

17. Moderate; not intense; not inflammatory; as, low heat; a low
temperature; a low fever.

18. Smaller than is reasonable or probable; as, a low estimate.

19. Not rich, high seasoned, or nourishing; plain; simple; as, a low
diet.

Note: Low is often used in the formation of compounds which require
no special explanation; as, low-arched, low- browed, low-crowned,
low-heeled, low-lying, low-priced, low-roofed, low-toned, low-voiced,
and the like. Low Church. See High Church, under High.
 -- Low Countries, the Netherlands.
 -- Low German, Low Latin, etc. See under German, Latin, etc.
 -- Low life, humble life.
 -- Low milling, a process of making flour from grain by a single
grinding and by siftings.
 -- Low relief. See Bas-relief.
 -- Low side window (Arch.), a peculiar form of window common in
mediæval churches, and of uncertain use. Windows of this sort are
narrow, near the ground, and out of the line of the windows, and in
many different situations in the building.
 -- Low spirits, despondency.
 -- Low steam, steam having a low pressure.
 -- Low steel, steel which contains only a small proportion of
carbon, and can not be hardened greatly by sudden cooling.
 -- Low Sunday, the Sunday next after Easter; -- popularly so called.
 -- Low tide, the farthest ebb of the tide; the tide at its lowest
point; low water.
 -- Low water. (a) The lowest point of the ebb tide; a low stage of
the in a river, lake, etc. (b) (Steam Boiler) The condition of an
insufficient quantity of water in the boiler.
 -- Low water alarm or indicator (Steam Boiler), a contrivance of
various forms attached to a boiler for giving warning when the water
is low.
 -- Low water mark, that part of the shore to which the waters recede
when the tide is the lowest. Bouvier.
 -- Low wine, a liquor containing about 20 percent of alcohol,
produced by the first distillation of wash; the first run of the
still; -- often in the plural.

LOW
Low, n. (Card Playing)

Defn: The lowest trump, usually the deuce; the lowest trump dealt or
drawn.

LOW
Low, adv.

1. In a low position or manner; not aloft; not on high; near the
ground.

2. Under the usual price; at a moderate price; cheaply; as, he sold
his wheat low.

3. In a low mean condition; humbly; meanly.

4. In time approaching our own.
In that part of the world which was first inhabited, even as low down
as Abraham's time, they wandered with their flocks and herds. Locke.

5. With a low voice or sound; not loudly; gently; as, to speak low.
Addison.
The . . . odorous wind Breathes low between the sunset and the moon.
Tennyson.

6. With a low musical pitch or tone.
Can sing both high and low. Shak.

7. In subjection, poverty, or disgrace; as, to be brought low by
oppression, by want, or by vice. Spenser.

8. (Astron.)

Defn: In a path near the equator, so that the declination is small,
or near the horizon, so that the altitude is small; -- said of the
heavenly bodies with reference to the diurnal revolution; as, the
moon runs low, that is, is comparatively near the horizon when on or
near the meridian.

LOW
Low, v. t.

Defn: To depress; to lower. [Obs.] Swift.

LOWBELL
Low"bell`, n. Etym: [Low a flame + bell.]

1. A bell used in fowling at night, to frighten birds, and, with a
sudden light, to make them fly into a net.
The fowler's lowbell robs the lark of sleep. King.

2. A bell to be hung on the neck of a sheep.
A lowbell hung about a sheep's . . . neck. Howell.

LOWBELL
Low"bell`, v. t.

Defn: To frighten, as with a lowbell.

LOWBORN
Low"born`, a.

Defn: Born in a low condition or rank; -- opposed to highborn.

LOWBOY
Low"boy`, n.

Defn: A chest of drawers not more than four feet high; -- applied
commonly to the lower half of a tallboy from which the upper half has
been removed. [U. S.]

LOWBRED
Low"bred`, a.

Defn: Bred, or like one bred, in a low condition of life;
characteristic or indicative of such breeding; rude; impolite;
vulgar; as, a lowbred fellow; a lowbred remark.

LOW-CHURCH
Low"-church`, a.

Defn: Not placing a high estimate on ecclesiastical organizations or
forms; -- applied especially to Episcopalians, and opposed to high-
church. See High Church, under High.

LOW-CHURCHISM
Low"-church`ism, n.

Defn: The principles of the low-church party.

LOW-CHURCHMAN
Low"-church`man, n.; pl. -men (.

Defn: One who holds low-church principles.

LOW-CHURCHMANSHIP
Low"-church`man*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a low-churchman.

LOWER
Low"er, a.

Defn: Compar. of Low, a.

LOWER
Low"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lowered; p. pr. & vb. n. Lowering.] Etym:
[From Low, a.]

1. To let descend by its own weight, as something suspended; to let
down; as, to lower a bucket into a well; to lower a sail or a boat;
sometimes, to pull down; as, to lower a flag.
Lowered softly with a threefold cord of love Down to a silent grave.
Tennyson.

2. To reduce the height of; as, to lower a fence or wall; to lower a
chimney or turret.

3. To depress as to direction; as, to lower the aim of a gun; to make
less elevated as to object; as, to lower one's ambition, aspirations,
or hopes.

4. To reduce the degree, intensity, strength, etc., of; as, to lower
the temperature of anything; to lower one's vitality; to lower
distilled liquors.

5. To bring down; to humble; as, to lower one's pride.

6. To reduce in value, amount, etc. ; as, to lower the price of
goods, the rate of interest, etc.

LOWER
Low"er, v. i.

Defn: To fall; to sink; to grow less; to diminish; to decrease; as,
the river lowered as rapidly as it rose.

LOWER
Low"er, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lowered; p. pr. & vb. n. Lowering.] Etym:
[OE. lowren, luren; cf. D. loeren, LG. luren. G. lauern to lurk, to
be on the watch, and E. leer, lurk.]

1. To be dark, gloomy, and threatening, as clouds; to be covered with
dark and threatening clouds, as the sky; to show threatening signs of
approach, as a tempest.
All the clouds that lowered upon our house. Shak.

2. To frown; to look sullen.
But sullen discontent sat lowering on her face. Dryden.

LOWER
Low"er, n. [Obs.]

1. Cloudiness; gloominess.

2. A frowning; sullenness.

LOWER-CASE
Low"er-case`, a. (Print.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or kept in, the lower case; -- used to denote
the small letters, in distinction from capitals and small capitals.
See the Note under 1st Case, n., 3.

LOWERING
Low"er*ing, a.

Defn: Dark and threatening; gloomy; sullen; as, lowering clouds or
sky.

LOWERINGLY
Low"er*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lowering manner; with cloudiness or threatening gloom.

LOWERMOST
Low"er*most`, a. [Irreg. superl. of Low. Cf. Uppermost, Foremost,
etc.]

Defn: Lowest.

LOWERY
Low"er*y, a.

Defn: Cloudy; gloomy; lowering; as, a lowery sky; lowery weather.

LOWGH; LOWH
Lowgh, Lowh, obs.

Defn: strong imp. of Laugh. Etym: [Cf. 1st Low and 2d Lough.]
Chaucer.

LOWING
Low"ing, n.

Defn: The calling sound made by cows and other bovine animals.

LOWISH
Low"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat low. [Colloq.] Richardson.

LOWK
Lowk, n.

Defn: See Louk. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LOWLAND
Low"land, n.

Defn: Land which is low with respect to the neighboring country; a
low or level country; -- opposed to highland. The Lowlands, Belgium
and Holland; the Netherlands; also, the southern part of Scotland.

LOWLANDER
Low"land*er, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of the Lowlands, especially of the
Lowlands of Scotland, as distinguished from Highlander.

LOWLIHOOD; LOWLIHEAD
Low"li*hood, Low"li*head, n.

Defn: A lowly state. [R.] Tennyson.

LOWLILY
Low"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lowly place or manner; humbly. [Obs. or R.]
Thinking lowlily of himself and highly of those better than himself.
J. C. Shairp.

LOWLINESS
Low"li*ness, n. Etym: [From Lowly.]

1. The state or quality of being lowly; humility; humbleness of mind.
Walk . . . with all lowliness and meekness. Eph. iv. 1, 2.

2. Low condition, especially as to manner of life.
The lowliness of my fortune has not brought me to flatter vice.
Dryden.

LOW-LIVED
Low"-lived`, a.

Defn: Characteristic of, or like, one bred in a low and vulgar
condition of life; mean dishonorable; contemptible; as, low-lived
dishonesty.

LOWLY
Low"ly, a. [Compar. Lowlier; superl. Lowliest.] Etym: [Low, a. + -
ly.]

1. Not high; not elevated in place; low. "Lowly lands." Dryden.

2. Low in rank or social importance.
One common right the great and lowly claims. Pope.

3. Not lofty or sublime; humble.
These rural poems, and their lowly strain. Dryden.

4. Having a low esteem of one's own worth; humble; meek; free from
pride.
Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in
heart. Matt. xi. 29.

LOWLY
Low"ly, adv.

1. In a low manner; humbly; meekly; modestly. "Be lowly wise."
Milton.

2. In a low condition; meanly.
I will show myself highly fed, and lowly taught. Shak.

LOW-MINDED
Low"-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Inclined in mind to low or unworthy things; showing a base
mind.
Low-minded and immoral. Macaulay.
All old religious jealousies were condemned as low-minded
infirmities. Bancroft.

LOW-MINDEDNESS
Low"-mind`ed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being lowminded; meanness; baseness.

LOWN
Lown, n. Etym: [See Loon.]

Defn: A low fellow. [Obs.]

LOW-NECKED
Low"-necked`, a.

Defn: Cut low in the neck; decollete; -- said of a woman's dress.

LOWNESS
Low"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being low.

LOW-PRESSURE
Low"-pres`sure, a.

Defn: Having, employing, or exerting, a low degree of pressure. Low-
pressure steam engine, a steam engine in which low steam is used;
often applied to a condensing engine even when steam at high pressure
is used. See Steam engine.

LOWRY
Low"ry, n.

Defn: An open box car used on railroads. Compare Lorry.

LOW-SPIRITED
Low"-spir`it*ed, a.

Defn: Deficient in animation and courage; dejected; depressed; not
sprightly.
 -- Low"-spir`it*ed*ness, n.

LOW STEEL
Low steel.

Defn: See under Low.

LOW-STUDDED
Low"-stud`ded, a.

Defn: Furnished or built with short studs; as, a low-studded house or
room.

LOW-THOUGHTED
Low"-thought`ed, a.

Defn: Having one's thoughts directed toward mean or insignificant
subjects.

LOXODROMIC
Lox`o*drom"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. loxodromique.]

Defn: Pertaining to sailing on rhumb lines; as, loxodromic tables.
Loxodromic curve or line (Geom.), a line on the surface of a sphere,
which always makes an equal angle with every meridian; the rhumb
line. It is the line on which a ship sails when her course is always
in the direction of one and the same point of the compass.

LOXODROMICS
Lox`o*drom"ics, n.

Defn: The art or method of sailing on the loxodromic or rhumb line.

LOXODROMISM
Lox*od"ro*mism, n.

Defn: The act or process of tracing a loxodromic curve; the act of
moving as if in a loxodromic curve.

LOXODROMY
Lox*od"ro*my, n. Etym: [Cf. F. loxodromic.]

Defn: The science of loxodromics. [R.]

LOY
Loy, n.

Defn: A long, narrow spade for stony lands.

LOYAL
Loy"al, a. Etym: [F. loyal, OF. loial, leial, L. legalis, fr. lex,
legis, law. See Legal, and cf. Leal.]

1. Faithful to law; upholding the lawful authority; faithful and true
to the lawful government; faithful to the prince or sovereign to whom
one is subject; unswerving in allegiance.
Welcome, sir John ! But why come you in arms -To help King Edward in
his time of storm, As every loyal subject ought to do. Shak.

2. True to any person or persons to whom one owes fidelity,
especially as a wife to her husband, lovers to each other, and friend
to friend; constant; faithful to a cause or a principle.
Your true and loyal wife. Shak.
Unhappy both, but loyaltheir loves. Dryden.

LOYALIST
Loy"al*ist, n.

Defn: A person who adheres to his sovereign or to the lawful
authority; especially, one who maintains his allegiance to his prince
or government, and defends his cause in times of revolt or
revolution.

LOYALLY
Loy"al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a loyal manner; faithfully.

LOYALNESS
Loy"al*ness, n.

Defn: Loyalty. [R.] Stow.

LOYALTY
Loy"al*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. loyaute. See Loyal, and cf. Legality.]

Defn: The state or quality of being loyal; fidelity to a superior, or
to duty, love, etc.
He had such loyalty to the king as the law required. Clarendon.
Not withstanding all the subtle bait With which those Amazons his
love still craved, To his one love his loyalty he saved. Spenser.

Note: "Loyalty . . . expresses, properly, that fidelity which one
owes according to law, and does not necessarily include that
attachment to the royal person, which, happily, we in England have
been able further to throw into the word." Trench.

Syn.
 -- Allegiance; fealty. See Allegiance.

LOZENGE
Loz"enge, n. Etym: [F. lozange, losange; perh. the same as OF.
losengef flattery, praise, the heraldic sense being the oldest (cf.
E. hatchment, blazon). Cf. Losenger, Laudable.]

1. (Her.)
(a) A diamond-shaped figure usually with the upper and lower angles
slightly acute, borne upon a shield or escutcheon. Cf. Fusil.
(b) A form of the escutcheon used by women instead of the shield
which is used by men.

2. A figure with four equal sides, having two acute and two obtuse
angles; a rhomb.

3. Anything in the form of lozenge.

4. A small cake of sugar and starch, flavored, and often medicated.
 -- originally in the form of a lozenge. Lozenge coach, the coach of
a dowager, having her coat of arms painted on a lozenge. [Obs.]
Walpole.
 -- Lozenge-molding (Arch.), a kind of molding, used in Norman
architecture, characterized by lozenge-shaped ornaments.

LOZENGED; LOZENGE-SHAPED
Loz"enged, Loz"enge-shaped`, a.

Defn: Having the form of a lozenge or rhomb.
The lozenged panes of a very small latticed window. C. Bronté.

LOZENGY
Loz"en*gy, a. Etym: [F. losangé. See Lozenge.] (Her.)

Defn: Divided into lozenge-shaped compartments, as the field or a
bearing, by lines drawn in the direction of the bend sinister.

LU
Lu, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Loo.

LUBBARD
Lub"bard, n. Etym: [See Lubber.]

Defn: A lubber. [Obs.] Swift.

LUBBARD
Lub"bard, a.

Defn: Lubberly.

LUBBER
Lub"ber, n. Etym: [Cf. dial. Sw. lubber. See Looby, Lob.]

Defn: A heavy, clumsy, or awkward fellow; a sturdy drone; a clown.
Lingering lubbers lose many a penny. Tusser.
Land lubber, a name given in contempt by sailors to a person who
lives on land.
 -- Lubber grasshopper (Zoöl.), a large, stout, clumsy grasshopper;
esp., Brachystola magna, from the Rocky Mountain plains, and Romalea
microptera, which is injurious to orange trees in Florida.
 -- Lubber's hole (Naut.), a hole in the floor of the "top," next the
mast, through which sailors may go aloft without going over the rim
by the futtock shrouds. It is considered by seamen as only fit to be
used by lubbers. Totten.
 -- Lubber's line, point, or mark, a line or point in the compass
case indicating the head of the ship, and consequently the course
which the ship is steering.

LUBBERLY
Lub"ber*ly, a.

Defn: Like a lubber; clumsy.
A great lubberly boy. Shak.

LUBBERLY
Lub"ber*ly, adv.

Defn: Clumsily; awkwardly. Dryden.

LUBRIC; LUBRICAL
Lu"bric, Lu"bric*al, a. Etym: [L. lubricus: cf. F. lubrique.]

1. Having a smooth surface; slippery. [R.]

2. Lascivious; wanton; lewd. [R.]
This lubric and adulterate age. Dryden.

LUBRICANT
Lu"bri*cant, a. Etym: [L. lubricans, p. pr. of lubricare, See
Lubricate.]

Defn: Lubricating.

LUBRICANT
Lu"bri*cant, n.

Defn: That which lubricates; specifically, a substance, as oil,
grease, plumbago, etc., used for reducing the friction of the working
parts of machinery.

LUBRICATE
Lu"bri*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. lubricatus, p. p. of lubricare to
lubricate. See Lubric.]

1. To make smooth or slippery; as, mucilaginous and saponaceous
remedies lubricate the parts to which they are applied. S. Sharp.
Supples, lubricates, and keeps in play, The various movements of this
nice machine. Young.

2. To apply a lubricant to, as oil or tallow.

LUBRICATION
Lu`bri*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act of lubricating; the act of making slippery.

LUBRICATOR
Lu"bri*ca`tor, n.

1. One who, or that which, lubricates. " Lubricator of the fibers."
Burke.

2. A contrivance, as an oil cup, for supplying a lubricant to
machinery.

LUBRICITATE
Lu*bric"i*tate, v. i.

Defn: See Lubricate.

LUBRICITY
Lu*bric"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. lubricitas: cf. F. lubricité.]

1. Smoothness; freedom from friction; also, property, which
diminishes friction; as, the lubricity of oil. Ray.

2. Slipperiness; instability; as, the lubricity of fortune.
L'Estrange.

3. Lasciviousness; propensity to lewdness; lewdness; lechery;
incontinency. Sir T. Herbert.
As if wantonness and lubricity were essential to that poem. Dryden.

LUBRICOUS
Lu"bri*cous, a. Etym: [L. lubricus.]

Defn: Lubric.

LUBRIFICATION; LUBRIFACTION
Lu`bri*fi*ca"tion, Lu`bri*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. lubricus lubric +
facere to make.]

Defn: The act of lubricating, or making smooth. Ray. Bacon.

LUCARNE
Lu`carne", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. lucerna a lamp. See Luthern.] (Arch.)

Defn: A dormer window.

LUCCHESE
Luc*chese", n. sing. & pl. Etym: [It. Lucchese.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Lucca, in Tuscany; in the plural, the
people of Lucca.

LUCE
Luce, n. Etym: [OF. lus, L. lucius a kind of fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A pike when full grown. Halliwell.

LUCENCY
Lu"cen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being lucent.

LUCENT
Lu"cent, a. Etym: [L. lucens, p. pr. of lucere to shine, fr. lux,
lucis, light.]

Defn: Shining; bright; resplendent. " The sun's lucent orb." Milton.

LUCERN
Lu"cern, n. Etym: [Etymology uncertain.] [Obs.]

1. A sort of hunting dog; -- perhaps from Lucerne, in Switzerland.
My lucerns, too, or dogs inured to hunt Beasts of most rapine.
Chapman.

2. An animal whose fur was formerly much in req [Written also lusern
and luzern.]
The polecat, mastern, and the richskinned lucern I know to chase.
Beau. & Fl.

LUCERN
Lu"cern, n. Etym: [F. luzerne.] (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous plant (Medicago sativa), having bluish purple
cloverlike flowers, cultivated for fodder; -- called also alfalfa.
[Written also lucerne.]

LUCERN
Lu"cern, n. Etym: [L. lucerna.]

Defn: A lamp. [Obs.] Lydgate.

LUCERNAL
Lu*cer"nal, a. Etym: [L. lucerna a lamp.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a lamp. Lucernal microscope, a form of the
microscope in which the object is illuminated by means of a lamp, and
its image is thrown upon a plate of ground glass connected with the
instrument, or on a screen independent of it.

LUCERNARIA
Lu`cer*na"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. lucerna a lamp.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of acalephs, having a bell-shaped body with eight
groups of short tentacles around the margin. It attaches itself by a
sucker at the base of the pedicel.

LUCERNARIAN
Lu`cer*na"ri*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Lucernarida.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Lucernarida.

LUCERNARIDA
lu`cer*nar"i*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Lucernaria.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A division of acalephs, including Lucernaria and allied genera; -
- called also Calycozoa.
(b) A more extensive group of acalephs, including both the true
lucernarida and the Discophora.

LUCERNE
Lu"cerne, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Lucern, the plant.

LUCID
Lu"cid, a. Etym: [L. lucidus, fr. lux, lucis, light. See Light, n.]

1. Shining; bright; resplendent; as, the lucid orbs of heaven.
Lucid, like a glowworm. Sir I. Newton.
A court compact of lucid marbles. Tennyson.

2. Clear; transparent. " Lucid streams." Milton.

3. Presenting a clear view; easily understood; clear.
A lucid and interesting abstract of the debate. Macaulay.

4. Bright with the radiance of intellect; not darkened or confused by
delirium or madness; marked by the regular operations of reason; as,
a lucid interval.

Syn.
 -- Luminous; bright; clear; transparent; sane; reasonable. See
Luminous.

LUCIDITY
Lu*cid"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lucidité. See Lucid.]

Defn: The quality or state of being lucid.

LUCIDLY
Lu"cid*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lucid manner.

LUCIDNESS
Lu"cid*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being lucid; lucidity.

LUCIFER
Lu"ci*fer, n. Etym: [L., bringing light, n., the morning star, fr.
lux, lucis, light + ferre to bring.]

1. The planet Venus, when appearing as the morning star; -- applied
in Isaiah by a metaphor to a king of Babylon.
How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning ! how
art thou cut down to the ground which didst weaken the nations ! Is.
xiv. 12.
Tertullian and Gregory the Great understood this passage of Isaiah in
reference to the fall of Satan; in consequence of which the name
Lucifer has since been applied to, Satan. Kitto.

2. Hence, Satan.
How wretched Is that poor man that hangs on princes' favors! . . .
When he falls, he falls like Lucifer, Never to hope again. Shak.

3. A match made of a sliver of wood tipped with a combustible
substance, and ignited by friction; -- called also lucifer match, and
locofoco. See Locofoco.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of free-swimming macruran Crustacea, having a slender
body and long appendages.

LUCIFERIAN
Lu`ci*fe"ri*an, a.

1. Of or pertaining to Lucifer; having the pride of Lucifer; satanic;
devilish.

2. Of or pertaining to the Luciferians or their leader.

LUCIFERIAN
Lu`ci*fe"ri*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of the followers of Lucifer, bishop of Cagliari, in the
fourth century, who separated from the orthodox churches because they
would not go as far as he did in opposing the Arians.

LUCIFEROUS
Lu*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [See Lucifer.]

Defn: Giving light; affording light or means of discovery. Boyle.

LUCIFEROUSLY
Lu*cif"er*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a luciferous manner.

LUCIFIC
Lu*cif"ic, a. Etym: [L. lucificus; lux, lucis, light + facere to
make.]

Defn: Producing light. Grew.

LUCIFORM
Lu"ci*form, a. Etym: [L. lux, lucis, light = -form.]

Defn: Having, in some respects, the nature of light; resembling
light. Berkeley.

LUCIFRIAN
Lu*cif"ri*an, a.

Defn: Luciferian; satanic. [Obs.] Marston.

LUCIMETER
Lu*cim"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. lux, lucis, light + -meter.]

Defn: an instrument for measuring the intensity of light; a
photometer.

LUCK
Luck, n. Etym: [Akin to D. luk, geluk, G. glück, Icel. lukka, Sw.
lycka, Dan. lykke, and perh. to G. locken to entice. Cf. 3d Gleck.]

Defn: That which happens to a person; an event, good or ill,
affecting one's interests or happiness, and which is deemed casual; a
course or series of such events regarded as occurring by chance;
chance; hap; fate; fortune; often, one's habitual or characteristic
fortune; as, good, bad, ill, or hard luck. Luck is often used for
good luck; as, luck is better than skill.
If thou dost play with him at any game, Thou art sure to lose; and of
that natural luck, He beats thee 'gainst the odds. Shak.
Luck penny, a small sum given back for luck to one who pays money.
[Prov. Eng.] -- To be is luck, to receive some good, or to meet with
some success, in an unexpected manner, or as the result of
circumstances beyond one's control; to be fortunate.

LUCKILY
Luck"i*ly, adv. Etym: [From Lucky.]

Defn: In a lucky manner; by good fortune; fortunately; -- used in a
good sense; as, they luckily escaped injury.

LUCKINESS
Luck"i*ness, n.

1. The state or quality of being lucky; as, the luckiness of a man or
of an event.

2. Good fortune; favorable issue or event. Locke.

LUCKLESS
Luck"less, a.

Defn: Being without luck; unpropitious; unfortunate; unlucky; meeting
with ill success or bad fortune; as, a luckless gamester; a luckless
maid.
Prayers made and granted in a luckless hour. Dryden.
-- Luck"less*ly, adv.
 -- Lock"less*ness, n.

LUCKY
Luck"y, a. [Compar. Luckier; superl. Luckiest.]

1. Favored by luck; fortunate; meeting with good success or good
fortune; -- said of persons; as, a lucky adventurer. " Lucky wight."
Spenser.

2. Producing, or resulting in, good by chance, or unexpectedly;
favorable; auspicious; fortunate; as, a lucky mistake; a lucky cast;
a lucky hour.
We doubt not of a fair and lucky war. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Successful; fortunate; prosperous; auspicious.

LUCKY PROACH
Luck`y proach". (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Fatherlasher.

LUCRATIVE
Lu"cra*tive, a. Etym: [L. lucrativus, fr. lucrari to gain, fr. lucrum
gain: cf. F. lucratif. See Lucre.]

1. Yielding lucre; gainful; profitable; making increase of money or
goods; as, a lucrative business or office.
The trade of merchandise being the most lucrative, may bear usury at
a good rate. Bacon.

2. Greedy of gain [Obs.]
Such diligence as the most part of our lucrative lawyers do use, in
deferring and prolonging of matters and actions from term to term.
Latimer.

LUCRATIVELY
Lu"cra*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lucrative manner.

LUCRE
Lu"cre, n. Etym: [F. lucre, L. lucrum.]

Defn: Gain in money or goods; profit; riches; -- often in an ill
sense.
The lust of lucre and the dread of death. Pope.

LUCRIFEROUS
Lu*crif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. lucrum gain +-ferous.]

Defn: Gainful; profitable. [Obs.] Boyle.

LUCRIFIC
Lu*crif"ic, a. Etym: [L. lucrificus; lucrum gain + facere to make.]

Defn: Producing profit; gainful. [Obs.]

LUCTATION
Luc*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. luctatio, fr. luctari to wrestle, strive.]

Defn: Effort to overcome in contest; struggle; endeavor. [R.]
Farindon.

LUCTUAL
Luc"tu*al, a. Etym: [L. luctus mourning, sorrow, fr. lugere, fr.
luctum, to mourn.]

Defn: Producing grief; saddening. [Obs.] Sir G. Buck.

LUCUBRATE
Lu"cu*brate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lucubrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lucubrated.] Etym: [L. lucubratus, p. p. of lucubrare to work by
lamplight, fr. lux light. See Light, n.]

Defn: To study by candlelight or a lamp; to study by night.

LUCUBRATE
Lu"cu*brate, v. t.

Defn: To elaborate, perfect, or compose, by night study or by
laborious endeavor.

LUCUBRATION
Lu`cu*bra"tion, n. Etym: [l. lucubratio;cf. F. lucubration.]

1. The act of lucubrating, or studying by candlelight; nocturnal
study; meditation.
After long lucubration I have hit upon such an expedient. Goldsmith.

2. That which is composed by night; that which is produced by
meditation in retirement; hence (loosely) any literary composition.
Thy lucubrations have been perused by several of our friends. Tatler.

LUCUBRATOR
Lu"cu*bra`tor, n.

Defn: One who studies by night; also, one who produces lucubrations.

LUCUBRATORY
Lu"cu*bra*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. lucubratorius.]

Defn: Composed by candlelight, or by night; of or pertaining to night
studies; laborious or painstaking. Pope.

LUCULE
Lu"cule, n. Etym: [Dim. fr. L. lux, lucis, light.] (Astron.)

Defn: A spot or fleck on the sun brighter than the surrounding
surface.

LUCULENT
Lu"cu*lent, a. Etym: [L. luculentus, from lux, lucis, light.]

1. Lucid; clear; transparent. Thomson.

2. Clear; evident; luminous. " Most luculent testimonies." Hooker.

3. Bright; shining in beauty. [Obs.]
Most debonair and luculent lady. B. Jonson.

LUCULENTLY
Lu"cu*lent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a luculent manner; clearly.

LUCULLITE
Lu*cul"lite, n. Etym: [From Lucullus, a Roman consul, famous for his
great wealth and luxury: cf. F. lucullite.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of black limestone, often polished for ornamental
purposes.

LUCUMA
Lu*cu"ma, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An American genus of sapotaceous trees bearing sweet and edible
fruits.

Note: Lucuma mammosum is called natural marmalade in the West Indies;
L. Caimito, of Peru, furnishes a delicious fruit called lucuma and
caimito.

LUDDITE
Lud"dite, n.

Defn: One of a number of riotous persons in England, who for six
years (1811-17) tried to prevent the use of labor-saving machinery by
breaking it, burning factories, etc.; -- so called from Ned Lud, a
half-witted man who some years previously had broken stocking frames.
J. & H. Smith. H. Martineau.

LUDIBRIOUS
Lu*dib"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. ludibrium mockery, derision, from ludere
to play, sport.]

Defn: Sportive; ridiculous; wanton. [Obs.] Tooker.

LUDIBUND
Lu"di*bund, a. Etym: [L. ludibundus.]

Defn: Sportive. [Obs.] -- Lu"di*bund*ness, n. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

LUDICROUS
Lu"di*crous, a. Etym: [L. ludicrus, or ludicer, from ludus play,
sport, fr. ludere to play.]

Defn: Adapted to excite laughter, without scorn or contempt;
sportive. Broome.
A chapter upon German rhetoric would be in the same ludicrous
predicament as Van Troil's chapter on the snakes of Iceland, which
delivers its business in one summary sentence, announcing, that
snakes in Iceland -- there are none. De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- Laughable; sportive; burlesque; comic; droll; ridiculous.
 -- Ludicrous, Laughable, Ridiculous. We speak of a thing as
ludicrous when it tends to produce laughter; as laughable when the
impression is somewhat stronger; as ridiculous when more or less
contempt is mingled with the merriment created.
 -- Lu"di*crous*ly, adv.
 -- Lu"di*crous*ness, n.

LUDIFICATION
Lu`di*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. ludificatio, fr. ludificare to make
sport of; ludus sport + -ficare (in comp.) to make. See -fy.]

Defn: The act of deriding.

LUDIFICATORY
Lu*dif"i*ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. ludificatorius.]

Defn: Making sport; tending to excite derision. [Obs.]

LUDLAMITE
Lud"lam*ite, n. Etym: [Named after Mr. Ludlam, of London.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in small, green, transparent, monoclinic
crystals. It is a hydrous phosphate of iron.

LUDLOW GROUP
Lud"low group`. (Geol.)

Defn: A subdivision of the British Upper Silurian lying below the Old
Red Sandstone; -- so named from the Ludlow, in Western England. See
the Chart of Geology.

LUDWIGITE
Lud"wig*ite, n. Etym: [Named after the chemist Ludwig.] (Min.)

Defn: A borate of iron and magnesia, occurring in fibrous masses of a
blackish green color.

LUES
Lu"es, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: Disease, especially of a contagious kind. Lues venerea,
syphilis; -- called also simply lues.

LUFF
Luff, n. Etym: [OE. lof, prob. a sort of timber by which the course
of a ship was directed, perh. a sort of paddle; cf. D. loef luff,
loeven to luff. The word is perh. akin to E. glove. Cf. Aloof.]
(Naut.)
(a) The side of a ship toward the wind.
(b) The act of sailing a ship close to the wind.
(c) The roundest part of a ship's bow.
(d) The forward or weather leech of a sail, especially of the jib,
spanker, and other fore-and-aft sails. Luff tackle, a purchase
composed of a double and single block and fall, used for various
purposes. Totten.
 -- Luff upon luff, a luff tackle attached to the fall of another
luff tackle. R. H. Dana, Jr.

LUFF
Luff, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Luffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Luffing.] (Naut.)

Defn: To turn the head of a vessel toward the wind; to sail nearer
the wind; to turn the tiller so as to make the vessel sail nearer the
wind. To luff round, or To luff alee, to make the extreme of this
movement, for the purpose of throwing the ship's head into the wind.

LUFFA
Luf"fa, n. [NL., fr. Ar. lufah.] (Bot.)
 (a) A small genus of tropical cucurbitaceous plants having white
flowers, the staminate borne in racemes, and large fruits with a dry
fibrous pericarp. The fruit of several species and the species
themselves, esp. L. Ægyptiaca, are called dishcloth gourds.
 (b) Any plant of this genus, or its fruit.
 (c) The fibrous skeleton of the fruit, used as a sponge and in the
manufacture of caps and women's hats; -- written also loofah.

LUFFER
Luf"fer, n. (Arch.)

Defn: See Louver.

LUG
Lug, n. Etym: [Sw. lugg the forelock.]

1. The ear, or its lobe. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

2. That which projects like an ear, esp. that by which anything is
supported, carried, or grasped, or to which a support is fastened; an
ear; as, the lugs of a kettle; the lugs of a founder's flask; the lug
(handle) of a jug.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: A projecting piece to which anything, as a rod, is attached, or
against which anything, as a wedge or key, bears, or through which a
bolt passes, etc.

4. (Harness)

Defn: The leather loop or ear by which a shaft is held up.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lugworm. Lug bolt (Mach.), a bolt terminating in a long,
flat extension which takes the place of a head; a strap bolt.

LUG
Lug, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lugged; p. pr. & vb. n. Lugging.] Etym: [OE.
luggen, Sw. lugga to pull by the hair, fr. lugg the forelock.]

Defn: To pull with force; to haul; to drag along; to carry with
difficulty, as something heavy or cumbersome. Dryden.
They must divide the image among them, and so lug off every one his
share. Collier.

LUG
Lug, v. i.

Defn: To move slowly and heavily.

LUG
Lug, n.

1. The act of lugging; as, a hard lug; that which is lugged; as, the
pack is a heavy lug.[Colloq.]

2. Anything which moves slowly. [Obs.] Ascham.

LUG
Lug, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

1. A rod or pole. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

2. A measure of length, being 16 [Obs.] " Eight lugs of ground."
Spenser. Chimney lug, or Lug pole, a pole on which a kettle is hung
over the fire, either in a chimney or in the open air. [Local, U.S.]
Whittier.

LUGGAGE
Lug"gage, n. Etym: [From 4th Lug.]

Defn: That which is lugged; anything cumbrous and heavy to be
carried; especially, a traveler's trunks, baggage, etc., or their
contents.
I am gathering up my luggage, and preparing for my journey. Swift.
What do you mean, To dote thus on such luggage! Shak.

Syn.
 -- Plunder; baggage. Luggage van, a vehicle for carrying luggage; a
railway car, or compartment of a car, for carrying luggage. [Eng.]

LUGGER
Lug"ger, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A small vessel having two or three masts, and a running
bowsprit, and carrying lugsails. See Illustration in Appendix.
Totten.

LUGGER
Lug"ger, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Indian falcon (Falco jugger), similar to the European lanner
and the American prairie falcon.

LUGMARK
Lug"mark`, n. Etym: [From Lug an ear.]

Defn: A mark cut into the ear of an animal to identify it; an
earmark.

LUGSAIL
Lug"sail`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A square sail bent upon a yard that hangs obliquely to the mast
and is raised or lowered with the sail. Totten.

LUGUBRIOUS
Lu*gu"bri*ous, a. Etym: [L. lugubris, fr. lugere to mourn; cf. Gr.
ruj to break.]

Defn: Mournful; indicating sorrow, often ridiculously or feignedly;
doleful; woful; pitiable; as, a whining tone and a lugubrious look.
Crossbones, scythes, hourglasses, and other lugubrious emblems of
mortality. Hawthorne.
-- Lu*gu"bri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Lu*gu"bri*ous*ness, n.

LUGWORM
Lug"worm`, n. Etym: [1st lug + worm.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large marine annelid (Arenicola marina) having a row of
tufted gills along each side of the back. It is found burrowing in
sandy beaches, both in America and Europe, and is used for bait by
European fishermen. Called also lobworm, and baitworm.

LUKE
Luke, a. Etym: [Prob. fr. lew, perh. influenced by AS. wlæc warm,
lukewarm, remiss. Cf. Lew.]

Defn: Moderately warm; not hot; tepid.
 -- Luke"ness, n. [Obs.]
Nine penn'orth o'brandy and water luke. Dickens.

LUKEWARM
Luke"warm`, a. Etym: [See Luke.]

Defn: Moderately warm; neither cold nor hot; tepid; not ardent; not
zealous; cool; indifferent. " Lukewarm blood." Spenser. " Lukewarm
patriots." Addison.
An obedience so lukewarm and languishing that it merits not the name
of passion. Dryden.
-- Luce"warm`ly, adv.
 -- Luce"warm`ness, n.

LULL
Lull, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lulled; p. pr. & vb. n. Lulling.] Etym:
[Akin to OD. lullen to sing to sleep, G. lullen, Dan. lulle, Sw.
lulla; all of imitative origin. Cf. Loll, Lollard.]

Defn: To cause to rest by soothing influences; to compose; to calm;
to soothe; to quiet. " To lull him soft asleep." Spenser.
Such sweet compulsion doth in music lie, To lull the daughters of
necessity. Milton.

LULL
Lull, v. i.

Defn: To become gradually calm; to subside; to cease or abate for a
time; as, the storm lulls.

LULL
Lull, n.

1. The power or quality of soothing; that which soothes; a lullaby.
[R.] Young.

2. A temporary cessation of storm or confusion.

LULLABY
lull"a*by, n. Etym: [From Lull, v. t. ]

1. A song to quiet babes or lull them to sleep; that which quiets.
Shak.

2. Hence: Good night; good-by. [Obs.] Shak.

LULLER
Lull"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, lulls.

LULLINGLY
Lull"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lulling manner; soothingly.

LUM
Lum, n. Etym: [W. llumon chimney, llum that shoots up or ends in a
point.]

1. A chimney. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Burns.

2. A ventilating chimney over the shaft of a mine.

3. A woody valley; also, a deep pool. [Prov. Eng.]

LUMACHEL; LUMACHELLA
Lu"ma*chel, Lu`ma*chel"la, n. Etym: [F. lumachelle, It. lumachella,
fr. lamachella a little snail, dim. of lumaca a snail, fr. L. limax,
-acis.] (Min.)

Defn: A grayish brown limestone, containing fossil shells, which
reflect a beautiful play of colors. It is also called fire marble,
from its fiery reflections.

LUMBAGINOUS
Lum*bag"i*nous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to lumbago.

LUMBAGO
Lum*ba"go, n. Etym: [L., fr. lumbus loin. See Lumbar.] (Med.)

Defn: A rheumatic pain in the loins and the small of the back.

LUMBAR; LUMBAL
Lum"bar, Lum"bal, a. Etym: [L. lumbus loin. See Loin.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or near, the loins; as, the lumbar arteries.
Lumbar region (Anat.), the region of the loin; specifically, a region
between the hypochondriac and ilias regions, and outside of the
umbilical region.

LUMBER
Lum"ber, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. Lombard, the Lombards being the money
lenders and pawnbrokers of the Middle Ages. A lumber room was,
according to Trench, originally a Lombard room, or room where the
Lombard pawnbroker stored his pledges. See Lombard.]

1. A pawnbroker's shop, or room for storing articles put in pawn;
hence, a pledge, or pawn. [Obs.]
They put all the little plate they had in the lumber, which is
pawning it, till the ships came. Lady Murray.

2. Old or refuse household stuff; things cumbrous, or bulky and
useless, or of small value.

3. Timber sawed or split into the form of beams, joists, boards,
planks, staves, hoops, etc.; esp., that which is smaller than heavy
timber. [U.S.] Lumber kiln, a room in which timber or lumber is dried
by artificial heat. [U.S.] -- Lumber room, a room in which unused
furniture or other lumber is kept. [U.S.] -- Lumber wagon, a heavy
rough wagon, without springs, used for general farmwork, etc.

LUMBER
Lum"ber, b. t. [imp. & p. p. Lumbered; p. pr. & vb. n. Lumbering.]

1. To heap together in disorder. " Stuff lumbered together." Rymer.

2. To fill or encumber with lumber; as, to lumber up a room.

LUMBER
Lum"ber, v. i.

1. To move heavily, as if burdened.

2. Etym: [Cf. dial. Sw. lomra to resound.]

Defn: To make a sound as if moving heavily or clumsily; to rumble.
Cowper.

3. To cut logs in the forest, or prepare timber for market. [U.S.]

LUMBERER
Lum"ber*er, n.

Defn: One employed in lumbering, cutting, and getting logs from the
forest for lumber; a lumberman. [U.S.]
Lumberers have a notion that he (the woodpecker) is harmful to
timber. Lowell.

LUMBERING
Lum"ber*ing, n.

Defn: The business of cutting or getting timber or logs from the
forest for lumber. [U.S.]

LUMBERMAN
Lum"ber*man, n.; pl. Lumbermen (.

Defn: One who is engaged in lumbering as a business or employment.
[U.S.]

LUMBER STATE
Lum"ber State.

Defn: Maine; -- a nickname.

LUMBOSACRAL
Lum`bo*sa"cral, n. Etym: [L. lumbus loin + E. sacral.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the loins and sacrum; as, the lumbosacral
nerve, a branch of one of the lumber nerves which passes over the
sacrum.

LUMBRIC
Lum"bric, n. Etym: [L. lumbricus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An earthworm, or a worm resembling an earthworm.

LUMBRICAL
Lum"bric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lombrical. See Lumbric.] (Anat.)

Defn: Resembling a worm; as, the lumbrical muscles of the hands of
the hands and feet.
 -- n.

Defn: A lumbrical muscle.

LUMBRICIFORM
Lum*bric"i*form, a. Etym: [L. lumbricus worm + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling an earthworm; vermiform.

LUMBRICOID
Lum"bri*coid, a. Etym: [Lumbricus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like an earthworm; belonging to the genus Lumbricus, or family
Lumbricidæ.

LUMBRICUS
Lum"bri*cus, n. Etym: [L. See Lumbric.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of annelids, belonging to the Oligochæta, and including
the common earthworms. See Earthworm.

LUMEN
Lu"men, n.; pl. L. Lumina (#), E. Lumens (#). [L., light, an opening
for light.]

1. (Photom.)
 (a) A unit of illumination, being the amount of illumination of a
unit area of spherical surface, due to a light of unit intensity
placed at the center of the sphere.
 (b) A unit of light flux, being the flux through one square meter of
surface the illumination of which is uniform and of unit brightness.

2.  (Biol.) An opening, space, or cavity, esp. a tubular cavity; a
vacuole.

LUMINANT
Lu"mi*nant, a.

Defn: Luminous. [R.]

LUMINARY
Lu"mi*na*ry, n.; pl. Luminaries, Etym: [F. luminaire, L. luminare a
light or lamp, which was lighted in the churches, a luminary, fr.
lumen, luminis, light, fr. lucere to be light, to shine, lux, lucis,
light. See Light.]

1. Any body that gives light, especially one of the heavenly bodies.
" Radiant luminary." Skelton.
Where the great luminary . . . Dispenses light from far. Milton.

2. One who illustrates any subject, or enlightens mankind; as, Newton
was a distinguished luminary.

LUMINATE
Lu"mi*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. luminatus, p. p. of luminare to illumine,
fr. lumen light. See Limn.]

Defn: To illuminate. [Obs.]

LUMINATION
Lu`mi*na"tion, n.

Defn: Illumination. [Obs.]

LUMINE
Lu"mine, v. i.

Defn: To illumine. [Obs.] Spenser.

LUMINESCENCE
Lu`mi*nes"cence, n. [See Luminescent.]

1. (Physics) Any emission of light not ascribable directly to
incandescence, and therefore occurring at low temperatures, as in
phosphorescence and fluorescence or other luminous radiation
resulting from vital processes, chemical action, friction, solution,
or the influence of light or of ultraviolet or cathode rays, etc.

2.  (Zoöl.)
 (a) The faculty or power of voluntarily producing light, as in the
firefly and glowworm.
 (b) The light thus produced; luminosity; phosphorescence.

LUMINESCENT
Lu`mi*nes"cent, a. [L. luminare to illuminate + -escent.] (Physics)

Defn: Shining with a light due to any of the various causes which
produce luminescence.

LUMINIFEROUS
Lu`mi*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. lumen light + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing light; yielding light; transmitting light; as, the
luminiferous ether.

LUMINOSITY
Lu`mi*nos"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being luminous; luminousness.

LUMINOUS
Lu"mi*nous, a. Etym: [L. luminosus, fr. lumen light: cf. F. lumineux.
See Luminary, Illuminate.]

1. Shining; emitting or reflecting light; brilliant; bright; as, the
is a luminous body; a luminous color.
Fire burneth wood, making it . . . luminous. Bacon.
The mountains lift . . . their lofty and luminous heads. Longfellow.

2. Illuminated; full of light; bright; as, many candles made the room
luminous.
Up the staircase moved a luminous space in the darkness. Longfellow.

3. Enlightened; intelligent; also, clear; intelligible; as, a
luminous mind. " Luminous eloquence." Macaulay. " A luminous
statement." Brougham. Luminous paint, a paint made up with some
phosphorescent substance, as sulphide of calcium, which after
exposure to a strong light is luminous in the dark for a time.

Syn.
 -- Lucid; clear; shining; perspicuous.
 -- Lu"mi*nous*ly, adv.
 -- Lu"mi*nous*ness, n.

LUMMOX
Lum"mox, n.

Defn: A fat, ungainly, stupid person; an awkward bungler. [Law.]

LUMP
Lump, n. Etym: [Cf. OD. lompe piece, mass. Cf. Lunch.]

1. A small mass of matter of irregular shape; an irregular or
shapeless mass; as, a lump of coal; a lump of iron ore. " A lump of
cheese." Piers Plowman. " This lump of clay." Shak.

2. A mass or aggregation of things.

3. (Firearms)

Defn: A projection beneath the breech end of a gun barrel. In the
lump, In a lump, the whole together; in gross.
They may buy them in the lump. Addison.
-- Lump coal, coal in large lumps; -- the largest size brought from
the mine.
 -- Lump sum, a gross sum without a specification of items; as, to
award a lump sum in satisfaction of all claims and damages.

LUMP
Lump, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lumped; p. pr. & vb. n. Lumping.]

1. To throw into a mass; to unite in a body or sum without
distinction of particulars.
The expenses ought to be lumped together. Ayliffe.

2. To take in the gross; to speak of collectively.
Not forgetting all others, . . . whom for brevity, but out of no
resentment you, I lump all together. Sterne.

3. To get along with as one can, although displeased; as, if he does
n't like it, he can lump it. [Law]

LUMPER
Lump"er, n. Etym: [Cf. Lamper eel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European eelpout; -- called also lumpen.

LUMPER
Lump"er, n.

1. One who lumps.

2. A laborer who is employed to load or unload vessels when in
harbor.

LUMPFISH
Lump"fish`, n. Etym: [From Lump, on account of its bulkiness: cf. G.
& D. lump, F. lompe.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, thick, clumsy, marine fish (Cyclopterus lumpus) of
Europe and America. The color is usually translucent sea green,
sometimes purplish. It has a dorsal row of spiny tubercles, and three
rows on each side, but has no scales. The ventral fins unite and form
a ventral sucker for adhesion to stones and seaweeds. Called also
lumpsucker, cock-paddle, sea owl.

LUMPING
Lump"ing, a.

Defn: Bulky; heavy. Arbuthnot.

LUMPISH
Lump"ish, a.

Defn: Like a lump; inert; gross; heavy; dull; spiritless. " Lumpish,
heavy, melancholy." Shak.
 -- Lump"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Lump"ish*ness, n.

LUMPSUCKER
Lump"suck`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lumprish.

LUMPY
Lump"y, a. [Compar. Lumpier; superl. Lumpiest.]

Defn: Full of lumps, or small compact masses.

LUMPY-JAW
Lump"y-jaw`. (Med.)

Defn: Actinomycosis. [Colloq.]

LUNA
Lu"na, n. Etym: [L.; akin to lucere to shine. See Light, n., and cf.
Lune.]

1. The moon.

2. (Alchemy)

Defn: Silver. Luna cornea (Old Chem.), horn silver, or fused silver
chloride, a tough, brown, translucent mass; -- so called from its
resemblance to horn. Luna moth (Zoöl.), a very large and beautiful
American moth (Actias luna). Its wings are delicate light green, with
a stripe of purple along the front edge of the anterior wings, the
other margins being edged with pale yellow. Each wing has a lunate
spot surrounded by rings of light yellow, blue, and black. The
caterpillar commonly feeds on the hickory, sassafras, and maple.

LUNACY
Lu"na*cy, n.; pl. Lunacies. Etym: [See Lunatic.]

1. Insanity or madness; properly, the kind of insanity which is
broken by intervals of reason, -- formerly supposed to be influenced
by the changes of the moon; any form of unsoundness of mind, except
idiocy; mental derangement or alienation. Brande. Burrill.
Your kindred shuns your house As beaten hence by your strange lunacy.
Shak.

2. A morbid suspension of good sense or judgment, as through
fanaticism. Dr. H. More.

Syn.
 -- Derangement; craziness; mania. See Insanity.

LUNAR
Lu"nar, a. Etym: [L. lunaris, fr. luna the moon. See Luna, and cf.
Lunary.]

1. Of or pertaining to the moon; as, lunar observations.

2. Resembling the moon; orbed. Dryden.

3. Measured by the revolutions of the moon; as, a lunar month.

4. Influenced by the moon, as in growth, character, or properties;
as, lunar herbs. Bacon. Lunar caustic (Med. Chem.), silver nitrate
prepared to be used as a cautery; -- so named because silver was
called luna by the ancient alchemists.
 -- Lunar cycle. Same as Metonic cycle. See under Cycle.
 -- Lunar distance, the angular distance of the moon from the sun, a
star, or a planet, employed for determining longitude by the lunar
method.
 -- Lunar method, the method of finding a ship's longitude by
comparing the local time of taking (by means of a sextant or circle)
a given lunar distance, with the Greenwich time corresponding to the
same distance as ascertained from a nautical almanac, the difference
of these times being the longitude.
 -- Lunar month. See Month.
 -- Lunar observation, an observation of a lunar distance by means of
a sextant or circle, with the altitudes of the bodies, and the time,
for the purpose of computing the longitude.
 -- Lunar tables. (a) (Astron.) Tables of the moon's motions,
arranged for computing the moon's true place at any time past or
future. (b) (Navigation) Tables for correcting an observed lunar
distance on account of refraction and parallax.
 -- Lunar year, the period of twelve lunar months, or 354 days, 8
hours, 48 minutes, and 34.38 seconds.

LUNAR
Lu"nar, n.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: A lunar distance.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The middle bone of the proximal series of the carpus; -- called
also semilunar, and intermedium.

LUNARIAN
Lu*na"ri*an, n. Etym: [See Lunar, Luna.]

Defn: An inhabitant of the moon.

LUNARY
Lu"na*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lunaire. See Lunar.]

Defn: Lunar. [Obs.] Fuller.

LUNARY
Lu"na*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lunaire.] (Bot.)
(a) The herb moonwort or "honesty".
(b) A low fleshy fern (Botrychium Lunaria) with lunate segments of
the leaf or frond.

LUNATE; LUNATED
Lu"nate, Lu"na*ted, a. Etym: [L. lunatus crescent-shaped, p. p. of
lunare to bend like a crescent, fr. luna the moon.]

Defn: Crescent-shaped; as, a lunate leaf; a lunate beak; a lunated
cross. Gray.

LUNATIC
Lu"na*tic, a. Etym: [F. lunatique, L. lunaticus, fr. luna the moon.
See Lunar.]

1. Affected by lunacy; insane; mad.
Lord, have mercy on my son; for he is lunatic. Wyclif (Matt. xvii.
15).

2. Of or pertaining to, or suitable for, an insane person; evincing
lunacy; as, lunatic gibberish; a lunatic asylum.

LUNATIC
Lu"na*tic, n.

Defn: A person affected by lunacy; an insane person, esp. one who has
lucid intervals; a madman; a person of unsound mind.
The lunatic, the lover, and the poet, Are of imagination all compact.
Shak.

LUNATION
Lu*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. Lunated.]

Defn: The period of a synodic revolution of the moon, or the time
from one new moon to the next; varying in length, at different times,
from about 29

LUNCH
Lunch, n. Etym: [Of uncertain etymol. Cf. Prov. Eng. nunc a lump.]

Defn: A luncheon; specifically, a light repast between breakfast and
dinner.

LUNCH
Lunch, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lunched; p. pr. & vb. n. Lunching.]

Defn: To take luncheon. Smart.

LUNCHEON
Lunch"eon, n. Etym: [Prov. E. luncheon, lunchion, lunshin, a large
lump of food, fr. lunch. See Lunch.]

1. A lump of food. [Prov. Eng.]

2. A portion of food taken at any time except at a regular meal; an
informal or light repast, as between breakfast and dinner.

LUNCHEON
Lunch"eon, v. i.

Defn: To take luncheon. Beaconsfield.

LUNE
Lune, n. Etym: [L. luna moon: cf. F. lune. See Luna.]

1. Anything in the shape of a half moon. [R.]

2. (Geom.)

Defn: A figure in the form of a crescent, bounded by two intersecting
arcs of circles.

3. A fit of lunacy or madness; a period of frenzy; a crazy or
unreasonable freak. [Obs.]
These dangerous, unsafe lunes i' the king. Shak.

LUNET
Lu"net, n. Etym: [See Lunette.]

Defn: A little moon or satellite. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

LUNETTE
Lu*nette", n. Etym: [F., dim. of lune moon, L.luna. See Lune a
crescent.]

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A fieldwork consisting of two faces, forming a salient angle,
and two parallel flanks. See Bastion.

2. (Far.)

Defn: A half horseshoe, which wants the sponge.

3. A kind of watch crystal which is more than ordinarily flattened in
the center; also, a species of convexoconcave lens for spectacles.

4. A piece of felt to cover the eye of a vicious horse.

5. (Arch.)

Defn: Any surface of semicircular or segmental form; especially, the
piece of wall between the curves of a vault and its springing line.

6. An iron shoe at the end of the stock of a gun carriage. Lunette
window (Arch.), a window which fills or partly fills a lunette.

LUNG
Lung, n. Etym: [OE. lunge, AS. lunge, pl. lungen; akin to D. long, G.
lunge, Icel. & Sw. lunga, Dan. lunge, all prob. from the root of E.
light. See Light not heavy.] (Anat.)

Defn: An organ for aërial respiration; -- commonly in the plural.
My lungs began to crow like chanticleer. Shak.

Note: In all air-breathing vertebrates the lungs are developed from
the ventral wall of the esophagus as a pouch which divides into two
sacs. In amphibians and many reptiles the lungs retain very nearly
this primitive saclike character, but in the higher forms the
connection with the esophagus becomes elongated into the windpipe and
the inner walls of the sacs become more and more divided, until, in
the mammals, the air spaces become minutely divided into tubes ending
in small air cells, in the walls of which the blood circulates in a
fine network of capillaries. In mammals the lungs are more or less
divided into lobes, and each lung occupies a separate cavity in the
thorax. See Respiration. Lung fever (Med.), pneumonia.
 -- Lung flower (Bot.), a species of gentian (G. Pneumonanthe).
 -- Lung lichen (Bot.), tree lungwort. See under Lungwort. Lung sac
(Zoöl.), one of the breathing organs of spiders and snails.

LUNGE
Lunge, n. Etym: [Also spelt longe, fr. allonge. See Allonge, Long.]

Defn: A sudden thrust or pass, as with a sword.

LUNGE
Lunge, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lunged; p. pr. & vb. n. Lunging.]

Defn: To make a lunge.

LUNGE
Lunge, v. t.

Defn: To cause to go round in a ring, as a horse, while holding his
halter. Thackeray.

LUNGE
Lunge, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Namaycush.

LUNGED
Lunged, a.

Defn: Having lungs, or breathing organs similar to lungs.

LUNGFISH
Lung"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any fish belonging to the Dipnoi; -- so called because they
have both lungs and gills.

LUNG-GROWN
Lung"-grown`, a. (Med.)

Defn: Having lungs that adhere to the pleura.

LUNGIE
Lun"gie, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A guillemot. [Written also longie.] [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W.
Scott.

LUNGIS
Lun"gis, n. Etym: [OF. longis. See Lounge.]

Defn: A lingerer; a dull, drowsy fellow. [Obs.]

LUNGLESS
Lung"less, a.

Defn: Being without lungs.

LUNGOOR
Lun"goor, n. Etym: [Hind. langur.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A long-tailed monkey (Semnopithecus schislaceus), from the
mountainous districts of India.

LUNGWORM
Lung"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of parasitic nematoid worms which
infest the lungs and air passages of cattle, sheep, and other
animals, often proving fatal. The lungworm of cattle (Strongylus
micrurus) and that of sheep (S. filaria) are the best known.

LUNGWORT
Lung"wort`, n. (Bot.)
(a) An herb of the genus Pulmonaria (P. officinalis), of Europe; --
so called because the spotted appearance of the leaves resembles that
of a diseased lung.
(b) Any plant of the genus Mertensia (esp. M. Virginica and M.
Sibirica) plants nearly related to Pulmonaria. The American lungwort
is Mertensia Virginica, Virginia cowslip. Gray. Cow's lungwort
mullein.
 -- Sea lungwort, Mertensia maritima, found on the seacoast of
Northern Europe and America.
 -- Tree lungwort, a lichen (Sticta pulmonacea) growing on trees and
rocks. The thallus is lacunose, and in appearance somewhat resembles
the lungs, for diseases of which it was once thought a remedy.

LUNICURRENT
Lu"ni*cur"rent, a. Etym: [L. luna moon + E. current.]

Defn: Having relation to changes in currents that depend on the
moon's phases. Bache.

LUNIFORM
Lu"ni*form, a. Etym: [L. luna moon + -form: cf. F. luniforme.]

Defn: Resembling the moon in shape.

LUNISOLAR
Lu"ni*so"lar, a. Etym: [L. luna moon + E. solar: cf. F. lunisolaire.]

Defn: Resulting from the united action, or pertaining to the mutual
relations, of the sun and moon. Lunisolar precession (Astron.), that
portion of the annual precession of the equinoxes which depends on
the joint action of the sun and moon.
 -- Lunisolar year, a period of time, at the end of which, in the
Julian calendar, the new and full moons and the eclipses recur on the
same days of the week and month and year as in the previous period.
It consists of 532 common years, being the least common multiple of
the numbers of years in the cycle of the sun and the cycle of the
moon.

LUNISTICE
Lu"ni*stice, n. Etym: [L. luna. moon + sistere to cause to stand. Cf.
Solstice.] (Astron.)

Defn: The farthest point of the moon's northing and southing, in its
monthly revolution. [Obs.]

LUNITIDAL
Lu"ni*tid`al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to tidal movements dependent on the moon. Bache.
Lunitidal interval. See Retard, n.

LUNT
Lunt, n. Etym: [D. lont; akin to Dan. & G. lunte, Sw. lunta. Cf. Link
a torch.]

1. The match cord formerly used in firing cannon.

2. A puff of smoke. [Scotch.] Burns.

LUNULA
Lu"nu*la, n.; pl. Lunulæ. Etym: [L., prop., a little moon. See
Lunule.] (Anat. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Lunule.

LUNULAR
Lu"nu*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lunulaire. See Lunula.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having a form like that of the new moon; shaped like a
crescent.

LUNULATE; LUNULATED
Lu"nu*late, Lu"nu*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Lunula.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling a small crescent. Gray.

LUNULE
Lu"nule, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. lunula, dim. of luna moon.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Anything crescent-shaped; a crescent-shaped part or mark; a
lunula, a lune.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A lune. See Lune.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small or narrow crescent.
(b) A special area in front of the beak of many bivalve shells. It
sometimes has the shape of a double crescent, but is oftener heart-
shaped. See Illust. of Bivalve.

LUNULET
Lu"nu*let, n. Etym: [Dim. of lunule.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small spot, shaped like a half-moon or crescent; as, the
lunulet on the wings of many insects.

LUNULITE
Lu"nu*lite, n. Etym: [Lunule + -life: cf. F. lunulithe. See Lunula.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: Any bryozoan of the genus Lunulites, having a more or less
circular form.

LUNY
Lu"ny, a. Etym: [Shortened fr. lunatic.]

Defn: Crazy; mentally unsound. [Written also loony.] [Law, U.S.]

LUPERCAL
Lu*per"cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Lupercalia.

LUPERCAL
Lu*per"cal, n.

Defn: A grotto on the Palatine Hill sacred to Lupercus, the Lycean
Pan.

LUPERCALIA
Lu`per*ca"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [L. luperealis, fr. Lupercus the Lycean
Pan, so called fr. lupus a wolf, because he kept off the wolves.]
(Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A feast of the Romans in honor of Lupercus, or Pan.

LUPINE
Lu"pine, n. Etym: [L. lupinus, lupinum, apparently fr. lupinus
belonging to a wolf, fr. lupus a wolf; perh. so called because it was
supposed to exhaust the soil: cf. F. lupin. Cf. Wolf.] (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous plant of the genus Lupinus, especially L. albus,
the seeds of which have been used for food from ancient times. The
common species of the Eastern United States is L. perennis. There are
many species in California.

LUPINE
Lu"pine, a. Etym: [See Lupine, n.]

Defn: Wolfish; ravenous. Gauden.

LUPININ
Lu"pin*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside found in the seeds of several species of lupine,
and extracted as a yellowish white crystalline substance.

LUPININE
Lu"pin*ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid found in several species of lupine (Lupinus luteus,
L. albus, etc.), and extracted as a bitter crystalline substance.

LUPULIN
Lu"pu*lin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lupulin. See Lupuline.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter principle extracted from hops.

2. The fine yellow resinous powder found upon the strobiles or fruit
of hops, and containing this bitter principle. [Written also
lupuline.]

LUPULINE
Lu"pu*line, n. Etym: [NL. lupulus the hop, fr. L. lupus the hop: cf.
F. lupuline.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid extracted from hops as a colorless volatile liquid.

LUPULINIC
Lu`pu*lin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, hops; specifically,
designating an acid obtained by the decomposition of lupulin.

LUPUS
Lu"pus, n. Etym: [L., a wolf. See Wolf.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A cutaneous disease occurring under two distinct forms.

Note: Lupus erythematosus is characterized by an eruption of red
patches, which become incrusted, leaving superficial scars. L.
vulgaris is marked by the development of nodules which often ulcerate
deeply and produce great deformity. Formerly the latter was often
confounded with cancer, and some varieties of cancer were included
under Lupus.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The Wolf, a constellation situated south of Scorpio.

LURCATION
Lur*ca"tion, n. Etym: [See its Lurch.]

Defn: Gluttony; gormandizing. [Obs.]

LURCH
Lurch, v. i. Etym: [L. lurcare, lurcari.]

Defn: To swallow or eat greedily; to devour; hence, to swallow up.
[Obs.]
Too far off from great cities, which may hinder business; too near
them, which lurcheth all provisions, and maketh everything dear.
Bacon.

LURCH
Lurch, n. Etym: [OF. lourche name of a game; as adj., deceived,
embarrassed.]

1. An old game played with dice and counters; a variety of the game
of tables.

2. A double score in cribbage for the winner when his adversary has
been left in the lurch.
Lady --- has cried her eyes out on losing a lurch. Walpole.
To leave one in the lurch. (a) In the game of cribbage, to leave
one's adversary so far behind that the game is won before he has
scored thirty-one. (b) To leave one behind; hence, to abandon, or
fail to stand by, a person in a difficulty. Denham.
But though thou'rt of a different church, I will not leave thee in
the lurch. Hudibras.

LURCH
Lurch, v. t.

1. To leave in the lurch; to cheat. [Obs.]
Never deceive or lurch the sincere communicant. South.

2. To steal; to rob. [Obs.]
And in the brunt of seventeen battles since He lurched all swords of
the garland. Shak.

LURCH
Lurch, n. Etym: [Cf. W. llerch, llerc, a frisk, a frisking backward
or forward, a loitering, a lurking, a lurking, llercian, llerciaw, to
be idle, to frisk; or perh. fr. E. lurch to lurk.]

Defn: A sudden roll of a ship to one side, as in heavy weather;
hence, a swaying or staggering movement to one side, as that by a
drunken man. Fig.: A sudden and capricious inclination of the mind.

LURCH
Lurch, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lurched; p. pr. & vb. n. Lurching.]

Defn: To roll or sway suddenly to one side, as a ship or a drunken
man.

LURCH
Lurch, v. i. Etym: [A variant of lurk.]

1. To withdraw to one side, or to a private place; to lurk.
L'Estrange.

2. To dodge; to shift; to play tricks.
I . . . am fain to shuffle, to hedge, and to lurch. Shak.

LURCHER
Lurch"er, n. Etym: [See Lurch to lurk.]

1. One that lurches or lies in wait; one who watches to pilfer, or to
betray or entrap; a poacher.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a mongrel breed of dogs said to have been a cross
between the sheep dog, greyhound, and spaniel. It hunts game
silently, by scent, and is often used by poachers.

LURCHER
Lurch"er, n. Etym: [L. lurco, lurcho, a glutton. See 1st Lurch.]

Defn: A glutton; a gormandizer. [Obs.]

LURCHLINE
Lurch"line`, n.

Defn: The line by which a fowling net was pulled over so as to
inclose the birds.

LURDAN
Lur"dan, a.

Defn: Stupid; blockish. [Obs.]

LURDAN
Lur"dan, n. Etym: [OF. lourdin, fr. lourd heavy, dull, thick-headed.
See Lord.]

Defn: A blockhead. [Obs.]

LURE
Lure, n. Etym: [OF. loire, loirre, loerre, F. leurre lure, decoy; of
German origin; cf. MHG. luoder, G. luder lure, carrion.]

1. A contrivance somewhat resembling a bird, and often baited with
raw meat; -- used by falconers in recalling hawks. Shak.

2. Any enticement; that which invites by the prospect of advantage or
pleasure; a decoy. Milton.

3. (Hat Making)

Defn: A velvet smoothing brush. Knight.

LURE
Lure, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lured; p. pr. & vb. n. Luring.] Etym: [OF.
loirer, loirier, F. leurrer. See Lure, n.]

Defn: To draw to the lure; hence, to allure or invite by means of
anything that promises pleasure or advantage; to entice; to attract.
I am not lured with love. Piers Plowman.
And various science lures the learned eye. Gay.

LURE
Lure, v. i.

Defn: To recall a hawk or other animal.

LURG
Lurg, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large marine annelid (Nephthys cæca), inhabiting the sandy
shores of Europe and America. It is whitish, with a pearly luster,
and grows to the length of eight or ten inches.

LURID
Lu"rid, a. Etym: [L. luridus.]

1. Pale yellow; ghastly pale; wan; gloomy; dismal.
Fierce o'er their beauty blazed the lurid flame. Thomson.
Wrapped in drifts of lurid smoke On the misty river tide. Tennyson.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a brown color tonged with red, as of flame seen through
smoke.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of a color tinged with purple, yellow, and gray.

LURK
Lurk, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lurked; p. pr. & vb. n. Lurking.] Etym:
[OE. lurken, lorken, prob. a dim. from the source of E. lower to
frown. See Lower, and cf. Lurch, a sudden roll, Lurch to lurk.]

1. To lie hid; to lie in wait.
Like wild beasts, lurking in loathsome den. Spenser.
Let us . . . lurk privily for the innocent. Prov. i. 11.

2. To keep out of sight.
The defendant lurks and wanders about in Berks. Blackstone.

LURKER
Lurk"er, n.

1. One who lurks.

2. A small fishing boat. [Prov. Eng.]

LURRY
Lur"ry, n. Etym: [W. llwry precipitant, a provision.]

Defn: A confused heap; a throng, as of persons; a jumble, as of
sounds. [Obs.]
To turn prayer into a kind of lurry. Milton.

LUSCIOUS
Lus"cious, a. Etym: [Prob. for lustious, fr. lusty, or perh. a
corruption of luxurious. Cf. Lush, Lusty.]

1. Sweet; delicious; very grateful to the taste; toothsome;
excessively sweet or rich.
And raisins keep their luscious, native taste. Dryden.

2. Cloying; fulsome.
He had a tedious, luscious way of talking. Jeffrey.

3. Gratifying a depraved sense; obscene. [R.] Steele.
 -- Lus"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Lus"cious*ness, n.

LUSERN
Lu"sern, n. Etym: [F. loup-cervier, L. lupus cervarius.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lynx. See 1st Lucern and Loup-cervier.

LUSH
Lush, a. Etym: [Prob. an abbrev. of lushious, fr. luscious.]

Defn: Full of juice or succulence. Tennyson.
How lush and lusty the grass looks! how green! Shak.

LUSHBURG
Lush"burg, n.

Defn: See Lussheburgh. [Obs.]

LUSITANIAN
Lu`si*ta"ni*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Lusitania, the ancient name of the region almost
coinciding with Portugal.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the people of Lusitania.

LUSK
Lusk, a.

Defn: Lazy; slothful. [Obs.]

LUSK
Lusk, n.

Defn: A lazy fellow; a lubber. [Obs.] T. Kendall.

LUSK
Lusk, v. i.

Defn: To be idle or unemployed. [Obs.]

LUSKISH
Lusk"ish, a.

Defn: Inclined to be lazy. Marston.
 -- Lusk"*ish*ly, adv. -Lusk"ish*ness, n. [Obs.] Spenser.

LUSORIOUS; LUSORY
Lu*so"ri*ous, Lu"so*ry, a. Etym: [L. lusorius. See Illusory.]

Defn: Used in play; sportive; playful. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson.

LUSSHEBURGH
Lus"she*burgh, n.

Defn: A spurious coin of light weight imported into England from
Luxemburg, or Lussheburgh, as it was formerly called. [Obs.]
God wot, no Lussheburghes payen ye. Chaucer.

LUST
Lust, n. Etym: [AS. lust, lust, pleasure, longing; akin to OS., D.,
G., & Sw. lust, Dan. & Icel. lyst, Goth lustus, and perh. tom Skr.
lush to desire, or to E. loose. Cf. List to please, Listless.]

1. Pleasure [Obs.] " Lust and jollity." Chaucer.

2. Inclination; desire. [Obs.]
For little lust had she to talk of aught. Spenser.
My lust to devotion is little. Bp. Hall.

3. Longing desire; eagerness to possess or enjoy; -- in a had sense;
as, the lust of gain.
The lust of reigning. Milton.

4. Licentious craving; sexual appetite. Milton.

5. Hence: Virility; vigor; active power. [Obs.] Bacon.

LUST
Lust, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lusted; p. pr. & vb. n. Lusting.] Etym:
[AS. lystan. See Lust, n., and cf. List to choose.]

1. To list; to like. [Obs.] Chaucer. " Do so if thou lust. " Latimer.

Note: In earlier usage lust was impersonal.
In the water vessel he it cast When that him luste. Chaucer.

2. To have an eager, passionate, and especially an inordinate or
sinful desire, as for the gratification of the sexual appetite or of
covetousness; -- often with after.
Whatsoever thy soul lusteth after. Deut. xii. 15.
Whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her, hath committed
adultery with her already in his heart. Matt. v. 28.
The spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy. James iv. 5.

LUSTER
Lust"er, n.

Defn: One who lusts.

LUSTER; LUSTRE
Lus"ter Lus"tre, n. Etym: [L. lustrum: cf. F. lustre.]

Defn: A period of five years; a lustrum.
Both of us have closed the tenth luster. Bolingbroke.

LUSTER; LUSTRE
Lus"ter, Lus"tre, n. Etym: [F. lustre; cf. It. lustro; both fr. L.
lustrare to purify, go about (like the priests at the lustral
sacrifice), traverse, survey, illuminate, fr. lustrum a purificatory
sacrifice; perh. akin to E. loose. But lustrare to illuminate is
perh. a different word, and akin to L. lucere to be light or clear,
to shine. See Lucid, and cf. Illustrious, Lustrum.]

1. Brilliancy; splendor; brightness; glitter.
The right mark and very true luster of the diamond. Sir T. More.
The scorching sun was mounted high, In all its luster, to the noonday
sky. Addison.

Note: There is a tendency to limit the use of luster, in this sense,
to the brightness of things which do not shine with their own light,
or at least do not blaze or glow with heat. One speaks of the luster
of a diamond, or of silk, or even of the stars, but not often now of
the luster of the sun, a coal of fire, or the like.

2. Renown; splendor; distinction; glory.
His ancestors continued about four hundred years, rather without
obscurity than with any great luster. Sir H. Wotton.

3. A candlestick, chandelier, girandole, or the like, generally of an
ornamental character. Pope.

4. (Min.)

Defn: The appearance of the surface of a mineral as affected by, or
dependent upon, peculiarities of its reflecting qualities.

Note: The principal kinds of luster recognized are: metallic,
adamantine, vitreous, resinous, greasy, pearly, and silky. With
respect to intensity, luster is characterized as splendent, shining,
glistening, glimmering, and dull.

5. A substance which imparts luster to a surface, as plumbago and
some of the glazes.

6. A fabric of wool and cotton with a lustrous surface, -- used for
women's dresses. Luster ware, earthenware decorated by applying to
the glazing metallic oxides, which acquire brilliancy in the process
of baking.

LUSTER; LUSTRE
Lus"ter, Lus"tre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lustred; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lustering, or Lustring.]

Defn: To make lustrous. [R. & Poetic]
Flooded and lustered with her loosened gold. Lowell.

LUSTERING
Lus"ter*ing, n.

1. The act or process of imparting a luster, as to pottery.

2. The brightening of a metal in the crucible when it becomes pure,
as in certain refining processes.

LUSTERLESS; LUSTRELESS
Lus"ter*less, Lus"tre*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of luster; dim; dull.

LUSTFUL
Lust"ful, a.

1. Full of lust; excited by lust Spenser. Tillotson.

2. Exciting lust; characterized by lust or sensuality. " Lustful
orgies." Milton.

3. Strong; lusty. [Obs.] " Lustful health." Sackville.

Syn.
 -- sensual; fleshly; carnal; inordinate; licentious; lewd; unchaste;
impure; libidinous; lecherous.
 -- Lust"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Lust"ful*ness, n.

LUSTIC
Lus"tic, a.

Defn: Lusty; vigorous. [Obs.]

LUSTIHEAD
Lus"ti*head, n. Etym: [Lusty + -head.]

Defn: See Lustihood. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LUSTIHOOD
Lus"ti*hood, n. Etym: [Lusty + -hood.]

Defn: State of being lusty; vigor of body. " Full of lustihood."
Tennyson.

LUSTILY
Lus"ti*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lusty or vigorous manner.

LUSTINESS
Lus"ti*ness, n.

Defn: State of being lusty; vigor; strength.

LUSTLESS
Lust"less, a. Etym: [CF. Listless.]

1. Lacking vigor; weak; spiritless. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. Free from sexual lust.

LUSTRAL
Lus"tral, a. Etym: [L. lustralis, fr. lustrum: cf. F. lustral. See
Lustrum.]

1. Of or pertaining to, or used for, purification; as, lustral days;
lustral water.

2. Of or pertaining to a lustrum.

LUSTRATE
Lus"trate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lustrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lustrating.] Etym: [L. lustratus, p. p. of lustrare to lustrate, fr.
lustrum. See Lustrum.]

Defn: To make clear or pure by means of a propitiatory offering; to
purify.
We must purge, and cleanse, and lustrate the whole city. Hammond.

LUSTRATION
Lus*tra"tion, n. Etym: [L. lustratio: cf. F. lustration.]

1. The act of lustrating or purifying.
And holy water for lustration bring. Dryden.

2. (Antiq.)

Defn: A sacrifice, or ceremony, by which cities, fields, armies, or
people, defiled by crimes, pestilence, or other cause of uncleanness,
were purified.

LUSTRE
Lus"tre, n.

Defn: Same as Luster.

LUSTRICAL
Lus"tri*cal, a. Etym: [L. lustricus, fr. lustrum. See Lustrum.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or used for, purification.

LUSTRING
Lus"tring, n. Etym: [F. lustrine, It. lustrino, fr. lustrare to
polish, L. lustrare. See 3d Luster, and cf. Lutestring.]

Defn: A kind of glossy silk fabric. See Lutestring.

LUSTROUS
Lus"trous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lustreux. See 3d Luster.]

Defn: Bright; shining; luminous. " Good sparks and lustrous." Shak.
 -- Lus"trous*ly, adv.

LUSTRUM
Lus"trum, n.; pl. E. Lustrums, L. Lustra. Etym: [L. Cf. 2d & 3d
Luster.]

Defn: A lustration or purification, especially the purification of
the whole Roman people, which was made by the censors once in five
years. Hence: A period of five years.

LUSTWORT
Lust"wort` n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Sundew.

LUSTY
Lust"y, a. [Compar. Lustier; superl. Lustiest.] Etym: [From Lust. See
Lust, and cf. Luscious.]

1. Exhibiting lust or vigor; stout; strong; vigorous; robust;
healthful; able of body.
Neither would their old men, so many as were yet vigorous and lusty,
be left at home. Milton.

2. Beautiful; handsome; pleasant. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. Of large size; big. [Obs.] " Three lusty vessels." Evelyn. Hence,
sometimes, pregnant. [Obs. or Prov.]

4. Lustful; lascivious. [Obs.] Milton.

LUSUS NATURAE
Lu"sus na*tu"ræ. Etym: [L., fr. lusus sport + naturae, gen. of natura
nature.]

Defn: Sport or freak of nature; a deformed or unnatural production.

LUTANIST
Lut"a*nist, n. Etym: [LL.lutanista, fr. lutana lute. See Lute the
instrument.]

Defn: A person that plays on the lute. Johnson.

LUTARIOUS
Lu*ta"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. lutarius fr. lutum mud.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, mud; living in mud. [Obs.] Grew.

LUTATION
Lu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. lutare, lutatum, to bedaub with mud, fr.
lutum mud: cf. F. lutation.]

Defn: The act or method of luting vessels.

LUTE
Lute, n. Etym: [L. lutum mud, clay: cf. OF. lut.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A cement of clay or other tenacious infusible substance for
sealing joints in apparatus, or the mouths of vessels or tubes, or
for coating the bodies of retorts, etc., when exposed to heat; --
called also luting.

2. A packing ring, as of rubber, for fruit jars, etc.

3. (Brick Making)

Defn: A straight-edged piece of wood for striking off superfluous
clay from mold.

LUTE
Lute, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Luted; p. pr. & vb. n. Luting.]

Defn: To close or seal with lute; as, to lute on the cover of a
crucible; to lute a joint.

LUTE
Lute, n. Etym: [OF. leut, F. luth; skin to Pr. laút, It. liúto,
leúto, Sp. laúd, Pg. alaude; all fr. Ar. al'; al the + ' wood,
timber, trunk or branch of a tree, staff, stick, wood of aloes, lute
or harp.] (Mus.)

Defn: A stringed instrument formerly much in use. It consists of four
parts, namely, the table or front, the body, having nine or ten ribs
or "sides," arranged like the divisions of a melon, the neck, which
has nine or ten frets or divisions, and the head, or cross, in which
the screws for tuning are inserted. The strings are struck with the
right hand, and with the left the stops are pressed.

LUTE
Lute, v. i.

Defn: To sound, as a lute. Piers Plowman. Keats.

LUTE
Lute, v. t.

Defn: To play on a lute, or as on a lute.
Knaves are men That lute and flute fantastic tenderness. Tennyson.

LUTE-BACKED
Lute"-backed`, a.

Defn: Having a curved spine.

LUTECIUM
Lu*te"ci*um, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A metallic element separated from ytterbium in 1907, by Urbain
in Paris and by von Welsbach in Vienna. Symbol, Lu; at. wt. 174.0.

LUTEIC
Lu*te"ic, a. (Chem.)
(a) Pertaining to, or derived from, weld (Reseda luteola).
(b) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid resembling luteolin, but
obtained from the flowers of Euphorbia cyparissias.

LUTEIN
Lu"te*in, n. Etym: [From corpus luteum.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A substance of a strongly marked yellow color, extracted from
the yelk of eggs, and from the tissue of the corpus luteum.

LUTENIST
Lut"e*nist, n.

Defn: Same as Lutanist.

LUTEO-
Lu"te*o-. Etym: [L. luteus.] (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form signifying orange yellow or brownish yellow.

LUTEOCOBALTIC
Lu"te*o*co*balt"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of cobalt
having a yellow color. Cf. Cobaltic. Luteocobaltic chloride (Chem.),
a brilliant reddish yellow crystalline compound, Co2Cl6(NH3)12,
obtained by the action of ammonium chloride on an ammoniacal solution
of cobaltic chloride.

LUTEOLIN
Lu"te*o*lin, n. Etym: [From NL. Reseda luteola, fr. L. luteolus
yellowish, fr. luteus: cf. F. lutéoline. See Luteous.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow dyestuff obtained from the foliage of the dyer's broom
(Reseda luteola).

LUTEOUS
Lu"te*ous, a. Etym: [L. luteus, fr. lutum dyer's broom, weld, which
is used as a yellow dye.]

Defn: Yellowish; more or less like buff.

LUTER
Lut"er, n. Etym: [From 3d Lute.]

Defn: One who plays on a lute.

LUTER
Lut"er, n. Etym: [From Ist Lute.]

Defn: One who applies lute.

LUTESCENT
Lu*tes"cent, a. Etym: [L. luteus yellow.]

Defn: Of a yellowish color.

LUTESTRING
Lute"string`, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. lustring.]

Defn: A plain, stout, lustrous silk, used for ladies' dresses and for
ribbon. Goldsmith.

LUTH
Luth, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The leatherback.

LUTHERAN
Lu"ther*an, a. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Luther; adhering to the doctrines of Luther
or the Lutheran Church.

LUTHERAN
Lu"ther*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who accepts or adheres to the doctrines of Luther or the
Lutheran Church.

LUTHERANISM; LUTHERISM
Lu"ther*an*ism, Lu"ther*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines taught by Luther or held by the Lutheran Church.

LUTHERN
Lu"thern, n. Etym: [F. lucarne a dormer, dormer window, garret
window, L. lucerna lamp, fr. lucere to be light or clear, fr. lux
light. See Light, n., and cf. Lucarne.] (Arch.)

Defn: A dormer window. See Dormer.

LUTIDINE
Lu"ti*dine, n. Etym: [From toluidine, by transposition.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of several metameric alkaloids, C5H3N.(CH3)2, of the
pyridine series, obtained from bone oil as liquids, and having
peculiar pungent odors. These alkaloids are also called respectively
dimethyl pyridine, ethyl pyridine, etc.

LUTING
Lut"ing, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Lute, a cement.

LUTIST
Lut"ist, n.

Defn: One who plays on a lute.

LUTOSE
Lu*tose", a. Etym: [L. lutosus, fr. lutum mud.]

Defn: Covered with clay; miry.

LUTULENCE
Lu"tu*lence, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being lutulent.

LUTULENT
Lu"tu*lent, a. Etym: [L. lutulentus, fr. lutum mud.]

Defn: Muddy; turbid; thick. [Obs.]

LUWACK
Lu*wack", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Paradoxure.

LUX
Lux, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. luxer. See Luxate.]

Defn: To put out of joint; to luxate. [Obs.]

LUXATE
Lux"ate, a. Etym: [L. luxatus, p. p. of luxare to dislocate.]

Defn: Luxated. [Obs.]

LUXATE
Lux"ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Luxated; p. pr. & vb. n. Luxating.]

Defn: To displace, or remove from its proper place, as a joint; to
put out of joint; to dislocate.

LUXATION
Lux*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. luxatio: cf. F. luxation.]

Defn: The act of luxating, or the state of being luxated; a
dislocation.

LUXE
Luxe, n. Etym: [L. luxus: cf. F. luxe.]

Defn: Luxury. [Obs.] Shenstone. Édition de luxe (. Etym: [F.]
(Printing) A sumptuous edition as regards paper, illustrations,
binding, etc.

LUXIVE
Lux"ive, a.

Defn: Given to luxury; voluptuous. [Obs.]

LUXULLIANITE
Lux*ul"li*an*ite, n. Etym: [So called from Luxullian, in Cornwall.]
(Min.)

Defn: A kind of granite from Luxullian, Cornwall, characterized by
the presence of radiating groups of minute tourmaline crystals.

LUXURIANCE
Lux*u"ri*ance, n. Etym: [Cf. F. luxuriance.]

Defn: The state or quality of being luxuriant; rank, vigorous growth;
excessive abundance produced by rank growth. "Tropical luxuriance."
B. Taylor.

LUXURIANCY
Lux*u"ri*an*cy, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being luxuriant; luxuriance.
Flowers grow up in the garden in the greatest luxuriancy and
profusion. Spectator.

LUXURIANT
Lux*u"ri*ant, a. Etym: [L. luxurians, p. pr. of luxuriare: cf. F.
luxuriant. See Luxuriate.]

Defn: Exuberant in growth; rank; excessive; very abundant; as, a
luxuriant growth of grass; luxuriant foliage.
Prune the luxuriant, the uncouth refine. Pope.
Luxuriant flower (Bot.), one in which the floral envelopes are
overdeveloped at the expense of the essential organs.

LUXURIANTLY
Lux*u"ri*ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a luxuriant manner.

LUXURIATE
Lux*u"ri*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Luxuriated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Luxuriating.] Etym: [L. luxuriatus, p. p. of luxuriari, -are, to
luxuriate. See Luxury.]

1. To grow exuberantly; to grow to superfluous abundance. " Corn
luxuriates in a better mold." Burton.

2. To feed or live luxuriously; as, the herds luxuriate in the
pastures.

3. To indulge with unrestrained delight and freedom; as, to luxuriate
in description.

LUXURIATION
Lux*u`ri*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process luxuriating.

LUXURIETY
Lux`u*ri"e*ty, n.

Defn: Luxuriance. [Obs.]

LUXURIOUS
Lux*u"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. luxuriosus: cf. F. luxurieux. See Luxury.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to luxury; ministering to luxury; supplied
with the conditions of luxury; as, a luxurious life; a luxurious
table; luxurious ease. " Luxurious cities. " Milton.
 -- Lux*u"ri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Lux*u"ri*ous*ness, n.

LUXURIST
Lux"u*rist, n.

Defn: One given to luxury. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple.

LUXURY
Lux"u*ry, n.; pl. Luxuries. Etym: [L. luxuria, fr. luxus: cf. F.
luxure.]

1. A free indulgence in costly food, dress, furniture, or anything
expensive which gratifies the appetites or tastes.
Riches expose a man to pride and luxury. Spectator.

2. Anything which pleases the senses, and is also costly, or
difficult to obtain; an expensive rarity; as, silks, jewels, and rare
fruits are luxuries; in some countries ice is a great luxury.
He cut the side of a rock for a garden, and, by laying on it earth,
furnished out a kind of luxury for a hermit. Addison.

3. Lechery; lust. [Obs.] Shak.
Luxury is in wine and drunkenness. Chaucer.

4. Luxuriance; exuberance. [Obs.] Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Voluptuousness; epicurism; effeminacy; sensuality;
lasciviousness; dainty; delicacy; gratification.

LUZ
Luz, n.

Defn: A bone of the human body which was supposed by certain
Rabbinical writers to be indestructible. Its location was a matter of
dispute. Brande & C.

-LY
-ly. Etym: [OE. -lich, AS. -lic, orig. the same word as E. li, a. See
Like, a.]

Defn: A suffix forming adjectives and adverbs, and denoting likeness
or resemblance.

LYAM
Ly"am, n. Etym: [See Leam.]

Defn: A leash. [Obs.]

LYCANTHROPE
Ly"can*thrope, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A human being fabled to have been changed into a wolf; a werewolf.

2. One affected with lycanthropy.

LYCANTHROPIA
Ly`can*thro"pi*a, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: See Lycanthropy, 2.

LYCANTHROPIC
Ly`can*throp"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to lycanthropy.

LYCANTHROPIST
Ly*can"thro*pist, n.

Defn: One affected by the disease lycanthropy.

LYCANTHROPOUS
Ly*can"thro*pous, a.

Defn: Lycanthropic.

LYCANTHROPY
Ly*can"thro*py, n. Etym: [Gr. lycanthropie.]

1. The supposed act of turning one's self or another person into a
wolf. Lowell.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A kind of erratic melancholy, in which the patient imagines
himself a wolf, and imitates the actions of that animal.

LYCEE
Ly`cée", n. [F. Cf. Lyceum.]

Defn: A French lyceum, or secondary school supported by the French
government, for preparing students for the university.

LYCEUM
Ly*ce"um, n.; pl. E. Lyceums, L. Lycea. Etym: [L. lyceum, Gr. Wolf.]

1. A place of exercise with covered walks, in the suburbs of Athens,
where Aristotle taught philosophy.

2. A house or apartment appropriated to instruction by lectures or
disquisitions.

3. A higher school, in Europe, which prepares youths for the
university.

4. An association for debate and literary improvement.

LYCHE
Lyche, a.

Defn: Like. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LYCHEE
Ly"chee`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Litchi.

LYCH GATE
Lych" gate`

Defn: . See under Lich.

LYCHNIS
Lych"nis, n. Etym: [L., a kind of red flower, Gr. lychni`s; cf.
ly`chnos a lamp.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of Old World plants belonging to the Pink family
(Caryophyllaceæ). Most of the species have brilliantly colored
flowers and cottony leaves, which may have anciently answered as
wicks for lamps. The botanical name is in common use for the garden
species. The corn cockle (Lychnis Githago) is a common weed in wheat
fields.

LYCHNOBITE
Lych"no*bite, n. Etym: [Gr. ly`chnos a lamp + bi`os life.]

Defn: One who labors at night and sleeps in the day.

LYCHNOSCOPE
Lych"no*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Low side window, under Low, a.

LYCINE
Lyc"ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A weak base identical with betaine; -- so called because found
in the boxthorn (Lycium barbarum). See Betaine.

LYCOPERDON
Ly`co*per"don, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of fungi, remarkable for the great quantity of spores,
forming a fine dust, which is thrown out like smoke when the plant is
compressed or burst; puffball.

LYCOPOD
Ly"co*pod, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lycopode.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Lycopodium.

LYCOPODE
Ly"co*pode, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Same as Lycopodium powder. See under Lycopodium.

LYCOPODIACEOUS
Ly`co*po`di*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging, or relating, to the Lycopodiaceæ, an order of
cryptogamous plants (called also club mosses) with branching stems,
and small, crowded, one-nerved, and usually pointed leaves.

LYCOPODITE
Ly*cop"o*dite, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: An old name for a fossil club moss.

LYCOPODIUM
Ly`co*po"di*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of mosslike plants, the type of the order Lycopodiaceæ;
club moss. Lycopodium powder, a fine powder or dust composed of the
spores of Lycopodium, and other plants of the order Lycopodiaceæ. It
is highly inflammable, and is sometimes used in the manufacture of
fireworks, and the artificial representation of lightning.

LYCOTROPOUS
Ly*cot"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Campylotropous.

LYDDITE
Lydd"ite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A high explosive consisting principally of picric acid, used as
a shell explosive in the British service; -- so named from the
proving grounds at Lydd, England.

LYDEN
Lyd"en, n.

Defn: See Leden. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LYDIAN
Lyd"i*an, a. Etym: [L. Lydius, fr. Lydia, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lydia, a country of Asia Minor, or to its
inhabitants; hence, soft; effeminate; -- said especially of one of
the ancient Greek modes or keys, the music in which was of a soft,
pathetic, or voluptuous character.
Softly sweet in Lydian measures, Soon he soothed his soul to
pleasures. Dryden.
Lydian stone, a flint slate used by the ancients to try gold and
silver; a touchstone. See Basanite.

LYDINE
Lyd"ine, n. (Dyeing)

Defn: A violet dye derived from aniline.

LYE
Lye, n. [Written also lie and ley.] Etym: [AS. leáh; akin to D. loog,
OHG. louga, G. lauge; cf. Icel. laug a bath, a hot spring.]

Defn: A strong caustic alkaline solution of potassium salts, obtained
by leaching wood ashes. It is much used in making soap, etc.

LYE
Lye, n. (Railroad)

Defn: A short side line, connected with the main line; a turn-out; a
siding. [Eng.]

LYE
Lye, n.

Defn: A falsehood. [Obs.] See Lie.

LYENCEPHALA
Ly`en*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Mammalia, including the marsupials and monotremes; -
- so called because the corpus callosum is rudimentary.

LYENCEPHALOUS
Ly`en*ceph"a*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Lyencephala.

LYERMAN
Ly"er*man, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cicada.

LYGODIUM
Ly*go"di*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of ferns with twining or climbing fronds, bearing
stalked and variously-lobed divisions in pairs.

Note: Lygodium palmatum, much prized for indoor ornament, inhabits
shaded and moist grassy places, from Massachusetts to Virginia and
Kentucky, and sparingly southwards.

LYING
Ly"ing, p. pr. & vb. n.

Defn: of Lie, to tell a falsehood.

LYING
Ly"ing, p. pr. & vb. n.

Defn: of Lie, to be supported horizontally. Lying panel (Arch.), a
panel in which the grain of the wood is horizontal. [R.] -- Lying to
(Naut.), having the sails so disposed as to counteract each other.

LYING-IN
Ly"ing-in", n.

1. The state attending, and consequent to, childbirth; confinement.

2. The act of bearing a child.

LYINGLY
Ly"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lying manner; falsely.

LYKEN
Ly"ken, v. t. Etym: [See Like, v. t. ]

Defn: To please; -- chiefly used impersonally. [Obs.] " Sith it
lyketh you." Chaucer.

LYM; LYMHOUND
Lym, or; Lym"hound`, n.

Defn: A dog held in a leam; a bloodhound; a limehound. [Obs.] Shak.

LYMAIL
Ly*mail", n.

Defn: See Limaille. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LYME GRASS
Lyme" grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: A coarse perennial grass of several species of Elymus, esp. E.
Canadensis, and the European E. arenarius.

LYMPH
Lymph, n. Etym: [L. lympha: cf. F. lymphe.]

1. A spring of water; hence, water, or a pure, transparent liquid
like water.
A fountain bubbled up, whose lymph serene Nothing of earthly mixture
might distain. Trench.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: An alkaline colorless fluid, contained in the lymphatic
vessels, coagulable like blood, but free from red blood corpuscles.
It is absorbed from the various tissues and organs of the body, and
is finally discharged by the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts into
the great veins near the heart.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A fibrinous material exuded from the blood vessels in
inflammation. In the process of healing it is either absorbed, or is
converted into connective tissue binding the inflamed surfaces
together. Lymph corpuscles (Anat.), finely granular nucleated cells,
identical with the colorless blood corpuscles, present in the lymph
and chyle.
 -- Lymph duct (Anat.), a lymphatic.
 -- Lymph heart. See Note under Heart, n., 1.

LYMPHADENITIS
Lym`pha*de*ni"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Lymph, and Adenitis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the lymphatic glands; -- called also lymphitis.

LYMPHADENOMA
Lym`pha*de*no"ma, n. Etym: [NL. See Lymph, Aden-, and -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: See Lymphoma.

LYMPHANGEITIS
Lym*phan`ge*i"tis, n. Etym: [NL., from L. lympha lymph + Gr. -itis.]
(Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels. [Written also
lymphangitis.]

LYMPHANGIAL
Lym*phan"gi*al, a. Etym: [See Lymphangeitis.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the lymphatics, or lymphoid tissue;
lymphatic.

LYMPHATE; LYMPHATED
Lymph"ate, Lymph"a*ted, a. Etym: [L. lymphatus, p. p. of lymphare to
water, dilute with water, to drive out of one's senses, to make mad.]

Defn: Frightened into madness; raving. [Obs.]

LYMPHATIC
Lym*phat"ic, a. Etym: [L. lymphaticus distracted, frantic: cf. F.
lymphatique]

Defn: pertaining to, containing, or conveying lymph.

2. Madly enthusiastic; frantic. [Obs.] " Lymphatic rapture. " Sir T.
Herbert. Etym: [See Lymphate.] Lymphatic gland (Anat.), one of the
solid glandlike bodies connected with the lymphatics or the lacteals;
-- called also lymphatic ganglion, and conglobate gland.
 -- Lymphatic temperament (Old Physiol.), a temperament in which the
lymphatic system seems to predominate, that is, a system in which the
complexion lacks color and the tissues seem to be of loose texture;
hence, a temperament lacking energy, inactive, indisposed to exertion
or excitement. See Temperament.

LYMPHATIC
Lym*phat"ic, n.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the lymphatic or absorbent vessels, which carry lymph
and discharge it into the veins; lymph duct; lymphatic duct.

2. A mad enthusiast; a lunatic. [Obs.]

LYMPHITIS
Lym*phi"tis, n. Etym: [NL.] (Med.)

Defn: See Lymphadenitis.

LYMPH NODE
Lymph node. (Anat.)

Defn: A lymphatic gland.

M.

LYMPHOGENIC
Lym`pho*gen"ic, a. Etym: [Lymph + root of L. gignere to produce.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: Connected with, or formed in, the lymphatic glands.

LYMPHOGRAPHY
Lym*phog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Lymph + -graphy.]

Defn: A description of the lymphatic vessels, their origin and uses.

LYMPHOID
Lymph"oid, a. Etym: [Lymph + -oid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Resembling lymph; also, resembling a lymphatic gland; adenoid;
as, lymphoid tissue.

LYMPHOMA
Lym*pho"ma, n. Etym: [NL. See Lymph, and -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A tumor having a structure resembling that of a lymphatic
gland; -- called also lymphadenoma. Malignant lymphoma, a fatal
disease characterized by the formation in various parts of the body
of new growths resembling lymphatic glands in structure.

LYMPHY
Lymph"y, a.

Defn: Containing, or like, lymph.

LYN
Lyn, n.

Defn: A waterfall. See Lin. [Scot.]

LYNCEAN
Lyn*ce"an, a. Etym: [See Lynx.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the lynx.

LYNCH
Lynch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lynched; p. pr. & vb. n. Lynching.] Etym:
[See Note under Lynch law.]

Defn: To inflict punishment upon, especially death, without the forms
of law, as when a mob captures and hangs a suspected person. See
Lynch law.

LYNCHER
Lynch"er, n.

Defn: One who assists in lynching.

LYNCH LAW
Lynch" law`

Defn: . The act or practice by private persons of inflicting
punishment for crimes or offenses, without due process of law.

Note: The term Lynch law is said to be derived from a Virginian named
Lynch, who took the law into his own hands. But the origin of the
term is very doubtful.

LYNDE; LYNDEN
Lynde, Lyn"den, n.

Defn: See Linden.

LYNE
Lyne, n.

Defn: Linen. [Obs.] Spenser.

LYNX
Lynx, n. Etym: [L. lynx, lyncis, Gr. lox, G. luchs, prob. named from
its sharp sight, and akin to E. light. See Light, n., and cf. Ounce
an animal.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of feline animals of the genus
Felis, and subgenus Lynx. They have a short tail, and usually a
pencil of hair on the tip of the ears.

Note: Among the well-known species are the European lynx (Felis
borealis); the Canada lynx or loup-cervier (F. Canadensis); the bay
lynx of America (F. rufa), and its western spotted variety (var.
maculata); and the pardine lynx (F. pardina) of Southern Europe.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the northern constellations.

LYNX-EYED
Lynx"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having acute sight.

LYONNAISE
Ly`on`naise", a. Etym: [F. lyonnaise, fem. of lyonnais of Lyons.]
(Cookery)

Defn: Applied to boiled potatoes cut into small pieces and heated in
oil or butter. They are usually flavored with onion and parsley.

LYOPOMATA
Ly`o*po"ma*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of brachiopods, in which the valves of shell are not
articulated by a hinge. It includes the Lingula, Discina, and allied
forms. [Written also Lyopoma.]

LYRA
Ly"ra, n. Etym: [L. lyra, Gr. Lyre.]

1. (Astron.)

Defn: A northern constellation, the Harp, containing a white star of
the first magnitude, called Alpha Lyræ, or Vega.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The middle portion of the ventral surface of the fornix of the
brain; -- so called from the arrangement of the lines with which it
is marked in the human brain.

LYRAID
Ly"ra*id, n. (Astron.)

Defn: Same as Lyrid.

LYRATE; LYRATED
Ly"rate, Ly"ra*ted, a. Etym: [NL. lyratus. See Lyre.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Lyre-shaped, or spatulate and oblong, with small lobes toward
the base; as, a lyrate leaf.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Shaped like a lyre, as the tail of the blackcock, or that of
the lyre bird.

LYRE
Lyre, n. Etym: [OE. lire, OF. lyre, L. lyra, Gr. Lyra.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A stringed instrument of music; a kind of harp much used by the
ancients, as an accompaniment to poetry.

Note: The lyre was the peculiar instrument of Apollo, the tutelary
god of music and poetry. It gave name to the species of verse called
lyric, to which it originally furnished an accompaniment

2. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the constellations; Lyra. See Lyra. Lyre bat (Zoöl.), a
small bat (Megaderma lyra), inhabiting India and Ceylon. It is
remarkable for the enormous size and curious shape of the nose
membrane and ears.
 -- Lyre turtle (Zoöl.), the leatherback.

LYRE BIRD
Lyre" bird`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of two or three species of Australian birds of the
genus Menura. The male is remarkable for having the sixteen tail
feathers very long and, when spread, arranged in the form of a lyre.
The common lyre bird (Menura superba), inhabiting New South Wales, is
about the size of a grouse. Its general color is brown, with rufous
color on the throat, wings, tail coverts and tail. Called also lyre
pheasant and lyre-tail.

LYRIC; LYRICAL
Lyr"ic, Lyr"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. lyricus, Gr. lyrique. See Lyre.]

1. Of or pertaining to a lyre or harp.

2. Fitted to be sung to the lyre; hence, also, appropriate for song;
-- said especially of poetry which expresses the individual emotions
of the poet. "Sweet lyric song." Milton.

LYRIC
Lyr"ic, n.

1. A lyric poem; a lyrical composition.

2. A composer of lyric poems. [R.] Addison.

3. A verse of the kind usually employed in lyric poetry; -- used
chiefly in the plural. 4. pl.

Defn: The words of a song.

LYRICALLY
Lyr"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lyrical manner.

LYRICISM
Lyr"i*cism, n.

Defn: A lyric composition. Gray.

LYRID
Ly"rid, n. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the group of shooting stars which come into the air in
certain years on or about the 19th of April; -- so called because the
apparent path among the stars the stars if produced back wards
crosses the constellation Lyra.

LYRIE
Ly"rie, n. Etym: [Icel. hl a sort of fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European fish (Peristethus cataphractum), having the body
covered with bony plates, and having three spines projecting in front
of the nose; -- called also noble, pluck, pogge, sea poacher, and
armed bullhead.

LYRIFEROUS
Ly*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Lyre + -ferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a lyre-shaped shoulder girdle, as certain fishes.

LYRISM
Lyr"ism, n. Etym: [Cf. Gr.

Defn: The act of playing on a lyre or harp. G. Eliot.

LYRIST
Lyr"ist, n. Etym: [L. lyristes, Gr. lyriste.]

Defn: A musician who plays on the harp or lyre; a composer of lyrical
poetry. Shelley.

LYSIMETER
Ly*sim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the water that percolates through a
certain depth of soil. Knight.

LYSIS
Ly"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The resolution or favorable termination of a disease, coming on
gradually and not marked by abrupt change.

Note: It is usually contrasted with crisis, in which the improvement
is sudden and marked; as, pneumonia ends by crisis, typhoid fever by
lysis.

LYSSA
Lys"sa, n. Etym: [NL. See Lytta.] (Med.)

Defn: Hydrophobia.

Note: The plural (Lyssæ) has been used to signify the pustules
supposed to be developed under the tongue in hydrophobia.

LYTERIAN
Ly*te"ri*an, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Termination a disease; indicating the end of a disease.

LYTHE
Lythe, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European pollack; -- called also laith, and leet. [Scot.]

LYTHE
Lythe, a. Etym: [See Lithe, a.]

Defn: Soft; flexible. [Obs.] Spenser.

LYTHONTHRIPTIC; LYTHONTRIPTIC
Lyth`on*thrip"tic, Lyth`on*trip"*tic, a. (Med.)

Defn: See Lithontriptic.

LYTTA
Lyt"ta, n.; pl. Lyttæ. Etym: [L., a worm said to grow under the
tongue of dogs, and to cause canine madness, fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A fibrous and muscular band lying within the longitudinal axis
of the tongue in many mammals, as the dog.


[END]

End of Project Gutenberg's Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***

***** This file should be named 29765-8.txt or 29765-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/7/6/29765/

Produced by Graham Lawrence

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
