The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***




Produced by Graham Lawrence

[START]

M
M (em).

1. M, the thirteenth letter of the English alphabet, is a vocal
consonant, and from the manner of its formation, is called the labio-
nasal consonant. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 178-180, 242.

The letter M came into English from the Greek, through the Latin, the
form of the Greek letter being further derived from the Phonician,
and ultimately, it is believed, from the Egyptian. Etymologically M
is related to n, in lime, linden; emmet, ant; also to b.

M is readily followed by b and p. the position of the lips in the
formation of both letters being the same. The relation of b and m is
the same as that of d and t to n. and that of g and k to ng.

2. As a numeral, M stands for one thousand, both in English and
Latin.

M
M, n.

1. (Print.) A quadrat, the face or top of which is a perfect square;
also, the size of such a square in any given size of type, used as
the unit of measurement for that type: 500 m's of pica would be a
piece of matter whose length and breadth in pica m's multiplied
together produce that number. [Written also em.]

2. (law) A brand or stigma, having the shape of an M, formerly
impressed on one convicted of manslaughter and admitted to the
benefit of clergy.

M roof (Arch.), a kind of roof formed by the junction of two common
roofs with a valley between them, so that the section resembles the
letter M.

MA
Ma (mä), n. [Cf. Mamma.]

1. A child's word for mother.

2. [Hind.] In Oriental countries, a respectful form of address given
to a woman; mother. Balfour (Cyc. of India).

MA
Ma, conj. [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: But; -- used in cautionary phrases; as, "Vivace, ma non troppo
presto" (i. e., lively, but not too quick). Moore (Encyc. of Music).

MAA
Maa, n. [See New a gull.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common European gull (Larus canus); -- called also mar. See
New, a gull.

MAAD
Maad, obs. p. p. of Make.

Defn: Made.  Chaucer.

MAALIN
Maa"lin, n. (Zoöl.)
 (a) The sparrow hawk.
 (b) The kestrel.

MA'AM
Ma'am, n.

Defn: Madam; my lady; -- a colloquial contraction of madam often used
in direct address, and sometimes as an appellation.

MAARA SHELL
Ma"a*ra shell`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, pearly, spiral, marine shell (Turbo margaritaceus),
from the Pacific Islands. It is used as an ornament.

MAASHA
Ma*ash"a, n.

Defn: An East Indian coin, of about one tenth of the weight of a
rupee.

MAAT
Maat, a. [See Mate, a.]

Defn: Dejected; sorrowful; downcast. [Obs.] "So piteous and so maat."
Chaucer.

MAB
Mab (mab), n. [Cf. W. mad a male child, a boy.]

1. A slattern. [Prov. Eng.]

2. The name of a female fairy, esp. the queen of the fairies; and
hence, sometimes, any fairy. Shak.

MABBLE
Mab"ble, v. t.

Defn: To wrap up. [Obs.]

MABBY
Mab"by, n.

Defn: A spirituous liquor or drink distilled from potatoes; -- used
in the Barbadoes.

MABOLO
Ma*bo"lo, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of persimmon tree (Diospyros discolor) from the
Philippine Islands, now introduced into the East and West Indies. It
bears an edible fruit as large as a quince.

MAC
Mac. [Gael., son.]

Defn: A prefix, in names of Scotch origin, signifying son.

MACACO
Ma*ca"co, n. [Cf. Pg. macaco.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of lemurs, as the ruffed lemur
(Lemur macaco), and the ring-tailed lemur (L. catta).

MACACUS
Ma*ca"cus, n. [NL., a word of African origin.  Cf. Macaco, Macaque.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of monkeys, found in Asia and the East Indies. They
have short tails and prominent eyebrows.

MACADAMIZATION
Mac*ad`am*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The process or act of macadamizing.

MACADAMIZE
Mac*ad"am*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Macadamized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Macadamizing.] [From John Loudon McAdam, who introduced the process
into Great Britain in 1816.]

Defn: To cover, as a road, or street, with small, broken stones, so
as to form a smooth, hard, convex surface.

MACADAM ROAD
Mac*ad"am road`. [See Macadamize.]

Defn: A macadamized road.

MACAO
Ma*ca"o, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A macaw.

MACAQUE
Ma`caque", n. [F. See Macacus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of short-tailed monkeys of the genus
Macacus; as, M. maurus, the moor macaque of the East Indies.

MACARANGA GUM
Mac`a*ran"ga gum`.

Defn: A gum of a crimson color, obtained from a tree (Macaranga
Indica) that grows in the East Indies. It is used in taking
impressions of coins, medallions, etc., and sometimes as a medicine.
Balfour (Cyc. of India).

MACARIZE
Mac"a*rize, v. t. [Gr.  to bless.]

Defn: To congratulate. [Oxford Univ. Cant]  Whately.

MACARONI
Mac`a*ro"ni, n.; pl. Macaronis (#), or Macaronies. [Prov. It.
macaroni, It. maccheroni, fr. Gr.  happiness, later, a funeral feast,
fr.  blessed, happy. Prob. so called because eaten at such feasts in
honor of the dead; cf. Gr.  blessed, i. e., dead.  Cf. Macaroon.]

1. Long slender tubes made of a paste chiefly of wheat flour, and
used as an article of food; Italian or Genoese paste.

 A paste similarly prepared is largely used as food in Persia, India,
and China, but is not commonly made tubular like the Italian
macaroni.  Balfour (Cyc. of India).

2. A medley; something droll or extravagant.

3. A sort of droll or fool. [Obs.] Addison.

4. A finical person; a fop; -- applied especially to English fops of
about 1775. Goldsmith.

5. pl. (U. S. Hist.) The designation of a body of Maryland soldiers
in the Revolutionary War, distinguished by a rich uniform.  W.
Irving.

MACARONIAN; MACARONIC
Mac`a*ro"ni*an, Mac`a*ron"ic, a. [Cf. It. maccheronico, F.
macaronique.]

1. Pertaining to, or like, macaroni (originally a dish of mixed
food); hence, mixed; confused; jumbled.

2. Of or pertaining to the burlesque composition called macaronic;
as, macaronic poetry.

MACARONIC
Mac`a*ron"ic, n.

1. A heap of thing confusedly mixed together; a jumble.

2. A kind of burlesque composition, in which the vernacular words of
one or more modern languages are intermixed with genuine Latin words,
and with hybrid formed by adding Latin terminations to other roots.

MACAROON
Mac`a*roon", n. [F. macaron, It. maccherone. See Macaroni.]

1. A small cake, composed chiefly of the white of eggs, almonds, and
sugar.

2. A finical fellow, or macaroni. [Obs.]

MACARTNEY
Ma*cart"ney, n. [From Lord Macartney.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fire-backed pheasant. See Fireback.

MACASSAR OIL
Ma*cas`sar oil".

Defn: A kind of oil formerly used in dressing the hair; -- so called
because originally obtained from Macassar, a district of the Island
of Celebes. Also, an imitation of the same, of perfumed castor oil
and olive oil.

MACAUCO
Ma*cau"co, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small lemurs, as Lemur murinus,
which resembles a rat in size.

MACAVAHU
Ma`ca*va"hu, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small Brazilian monkey (Callithrix torquatus), -- called also
collared teetee.

MACAW
Ma*caw", n. [From the native name in the Antilles.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any parrot of the genus Sittace, or Macrocercus. About eighteen
species are known, all of them American. They are large and have a
very long tail, a strong hooked bill, and a naked space around the
eyes. The voice is harsh, and the colors are brilliant and strongly
contrasted.

Macaw bush (Bot.), a West Indian name for a prickly kind of
nightshade (Solanum mammosum). --Macaw palm, Macaw tree (Bot.), a
tropical American palm (Acrocomia fusiformis and other species)
having a prickly stem and pinnately divided leaves. Its nut yields a
yellow butter, with the perfume of violets, which is used in making
violet soap. Called also grugru palm.

MACCABEAN
Mac`ca*be"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Judas Maccabeus or to the Maccabees; as,
the Maccabean princes; Maccabean times.

MACCABEES
Mac"ca*bees, n. pl.

1. The name given in later times to the Asmonæans, a family of Jewish
patriots, who headed a religious revolt in the reign of Antiochus
IV., 168-161 B. C., which led to a period of freedom for Israel.
Schaff-Herzog.

2. The name of two ancient historical books, which give accounts of
Jewish affairs in or about the time of the Maccabean princes, and
which are received as canonical books in the Roman Catholic Church,
but are included in the Apocrypha by Protestants. Also applied to
three books, two of which are found in some MSS. of the Septuagint.

MACCABOY; MACCOBOY
Mac"ca*boy, Mac"co*boy, n. Etym: [From a district in the Island of
Martinique where it is made: cf. F. macouba.]

Defn: A kind of snuff.

MACCO
Mac"co, n.

Defn: A gambling game in vogue in the eighteenth century. Thackeray.

MACE
Mace, n. Etym: [Jav. & Malay. mas, fr. Skr. masha a bean.]

Defn: A money of account in China equal to one tenth of a tael; also,
a weight of 57.98 grains. S. W. Williams.

MACE
Mace, n. Etym: [F. macis, L. macis, macir, Gr. makaranda the nectar
or honey of a flower, a fragrant mango.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of spice; the aril which partly covers nutmegs. See
Nutmeg.

Note: Red mace is the aril of Myristica tingens, and white mace that
of M. Otoba, -- East Indian trees of the same genus with the nutmeg
tree.

MACE
Mace, n. Etym: [OF. mace, F. masse, from (assumed) L. matea, of which
the dim. mateola a kind of mallet or beetle, is found.]

1. A heavy staff or club of metal; a spiked club; -- used as weapon
in war before the general use of firearms, especially in the Middle
Ages, for breaking metal armor. Chaucer.
Death with his mace petrific . . . smote. Milton.

2. Hence: A staff borne by, or carried before, a magistrate as an
ensign of his authority. "Swayed the royal mace." Wordsworth.

3. An officer who carries a mace as an emblem of authority. Macaulay.

4. A knobbed mallet used by curriers in dressing leather to make it
supple.

5. (Billiards)

Defn: A rod for playing billiards, having one end suited to resting
on the table and pushed with one hand. Mace bearer, an officer who
carries a mace before person in authority.

MACEDOINE
Ma`cé`doine", n. [F., apparently the same word as Macédoine
Macedonia.]

Defn: A kind of mixed dish, as of cooked vegetables with white sauce,
sweet jelly with whole fruit, etc. Also, fig., a medley.

MACEDONIAN
Mac`e*do"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Macedonius, Gr. (Geog.)

Defn: Belonging, or relating, to Macedonia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Macedonia.

MACEDONIAN
Mac`e*do"ni*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a certain religious sect, followers of Macedonius,
Bishop of Constantinople, in the fourth century, who held that the
Holy Ghost was a creature, like the angels, and a servant of the
Father and the Son.

MACEDONIANISM
Mac`e*do"ni*an*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines of Macedonius.

MACER
Ma"cer, n. Etym: [F. massier. See Mace staff.]

Defn: A mace bearer; an officer of a court. P. Plowman.

MACERATE
Mac"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Macerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Macerating.] Etym: [L. maceratus, p. p. of macerare to make soft,
weaken, enervate; cf. Gr.

1. To make lean; to cause to waste away. [Obs. or R.] Harvey.

2. To subdue the appetites of by poor and scanty diet; to mortify.
Baker.

3. To soften by steeping in a liquid, with or without heat; to wear
away or separate the parts of by steeping; as, to macerate animal or
vegetable fiber.

MACERATER
Mac"er*a`ter, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, macerates; an apparatus for converting
paper or fibrous matter into pulp.

MACERATION
Mac`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. maceratio: cf. F. macération.]

Defn: The act or process of macerating.

MACHAERODUS; MACHAIRODUS
Ma*chæ"ro*dus, Ma*chai"ro*dus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of extinct mammals allied to the cats, and having in
the upper jaw canine teeth of remarkable size and strength; -- hence
called saber-toothed tigers.

MACHETE
Ma*che"te, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A large heavy knife resembling a broadsword, often two or three
feet in length, -- used by the inhabitants of Spanish America as a
hatchet to cut their way through thickets, and for various other
purposes. J. Stevens.

MACHIAVELIAN
Mach`i*a*vel"ian, a. Etym: [From Machiavel, an Italian writer,
secretary and historiographer to the republic of Florence.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Machiavel, or to his supposed principles;
politically cunning; characterized by duplicity or bad faith; crafty.

MACHIAVELIAN
Mach`i*a*vel"ian, n.

Defn: One who adopts the principles of Machiavel; a cunning and
unprincipled politician.

MACHIAVELISM; MACHIAVELIANISM
Mach"i*a*vel*ism, Mach`i*a*vel"ian*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F.
machiavélisme; It. machiavellismo.]

Defn: The supposed principles of Machiavel, or practice in conformity
to them; political artifice, intended to favor arbitrary power.

MACHICOLATED
Ma*chic"o*la`ted, a. Etym: [LL. machicolatus, p. p. of machicolare,
machicollare. See Machicolation.]

Defn: Having machicolations. "Machicolated turrets." C. Kingsley.

MACHICOLATION
Mach`i*co*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. machicolamentum, machacolladura,
F. mâchicolis, mâchecoulis; perh. fr. F. mèche match, combustible
matter + OF. coulis, couleis, flowing, fr. OF. & F. couler to flow.
Cf. Match for making fire, and Cullis.]

1. (Mil. Arh.)

Defn: An opening between the corbels which support a projecting
parapet, or in the floor of a gallery or the roof of a portal,
shooting or dropping missiles upen assailants attacking the base of
the walls. Also, the construction of such defenses, in general, when
of this character. See Illusts. of Battlement and Castle.

2. The act of discharging missiles or pouring burning or melted
substances upon assailants through such apertures.

MACHICOULIS
Ma`chi`cou`lis", n. Etym: [F. mâchicoulis.] (Mil. Arch.)

Defn: Same as Machicolation.

MACHINAL
Ma*chin"al, a. Etym: [L. machinalis: cf. F. machinal.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to machines.

MACHINATE
Mach"i*nate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Machinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Machinating.] Etym: [L. machinatus, p. p. of machinari to devise,
plot. See Machine.]

Defn: To plan; to contrive; esp., to form a scheme with the purpose
of doing harm; to contrive artfully; to plot. "How long will you
machinate!" Sandys.

MACHINATE
Mach"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To contrive, as a plot; to plot; as, to machinate evil.

MACHINATION
Mach`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. machinatio: cf. F. machination.]

1. The act of machinating. Shak.

2. That which is devised; a device; a hostile or treacherous scheme;
an artful design or plot.
Devilish machinations come to naught. Milton.
His ingenious machinations had failed. Macaulay.

MACHINATOR
Mach"i*na`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who machinates, or forms a scheme with evil designs; a
plotter or artful schemer. Glanvill. Sir W. Scott.

MACHINE
Ma*chine", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. machina machine, engine, device,
trick, Gr. Mechanic.]

1. In general, any combination of bodies so connected that their
relative motions are constrained, and by means of which force and
motion may be transmitted and modified, as a screw and its nut, or a
lever arranged to turn about a fulcrum or a pulley about its pivot,
etc.; especially, a construction, more or less complex, consisting of
a combination of moving parts, or simple mechanical elements, as
wheels, levers, cams, etc., with their supports and connecting
framework, calculated to constitute a prime mover, or to receive
force and motion from a prime mover or from another machine, and
transmit, modify, and apply them to the production of some desired
mechanical effect or work, as weaving by a loom, or the excitation of
electricity by an electrical machine.

Note: The term machine is most commonly applied to such pieces of
mechanism as are used in the industrial arts, for mechanically
shaping, dressing, and combining materials for various purposes, as
in the manufacture of cloth, etc. Where the effect is chemical, or
other than mechanical, the contrivance is usually denominated an
apparatus, not a machine; as, a bleaching apparatus. Many large,
powerful, or specially important pieces of mechanism are called
engines; as, a steam engine, fire engine, graduating engine, etc.
Although there is no well-settled distinction between the terms
engine and machine among practical men, there is a tendency to
restrict the application of the former to contrivances in which the
operating part is not distinct from the motor.

2. Any mechanical contrivance, as the wooden horse with which the
Greeks entered Troy; a coach; a bicycle. Dryden. Southey. Thackeray.

3. A person who acts mechanically or at will of another.

4. A combination of persons acting together for a common purpose,
with the agencies which they use; as, the social machine.
The whole machine of government ought not to bear upon the people
with a weight so heavy and oppressive. Landor.

5. A political organization arranged and controlled by one or more
leaders for selfish, private or partisan ends. [Political Cant]

6. Supernatural agency in a poem, or a superhuman being introduced to
perform some exploit. Addison. Elementary machine, a name sometimes
given to one of the simple mechanical powers. See under Mechanical.
 -- Infernal machine. See under Infernal.
 -- Machine gun.See under Gun.
 -- Machine screw, a screw or bolt adapted for screwing into metal,
in distinction from one which is designed especially to be screwed
into wood.
 -- Machine shop, a workshop where machines are made, or where metal
is shaped by cutting, filing, turning, etc.
 -- Machine tool, a machine for cutting or shaping wood, metal, etc.,
by means of a tool; especially, a machine, as a lathe, planer,
drilling machine, etc., designed for a more or less general use in a
machine shop, in distinction from a machine for producing a special
article as in manufacturing.
 -- Machine twist, silken thread especially adapted for use in a
sewing machine.
 -- Machine work, work done by a machine, in contradistinction to
that done by hand labor.

MACHINE
Ma*chine", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Machined; p. pr. & vb. n. Machining.]

Defn: To subject to the action of machinery; to effect by aid of
machinery; to print with a printing machine.

MACHINER
Ma*chin"er, n.

Defn: One who or operates a machine; a machinist. [R.]

MACHINERY
Ma*chin"er*y, n. Etym: [From Machine: cf. F. machinerie.]

1. Machines, in general, or collectively.

2. The working parts of a machine, engine, or instrument; as, the
machinery of a watch.

3. The supernatural means by which the action of a poetic or
fictitious work is carried on and brought to a catastrophe; in an
extended sense, the contrivances by which the crises and conclusion
of a fictitious narrative, in prose or verse, are effected.
The machinery, madam, is a term invented by the critics, to signify
that part which the deities, angels, or demons, are made to act in a
poem. Pope.

4. The means and appliances by which anything is kept in action or a
desired result is obtained; a complex system of parts adapted to a
purpose.
An indispensable part of the machinery of state. Macaulay.
The delicate inflexional machinery of the Aryan languages. I. Taylor
(The Alphabet).

MACHINING
Ma*chin"ing, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the machinery of a poem; acting or used as
a machine.[Obs.] Dryden.

MACHINIST
Ma*chin"ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. machiniste.]

1. A constrictor of machines and engines; one versed in the
principles of machines.

2. One skilled in the use of machine tools.

3. A person employed to shift scenery in a theater.

MACHO
Ma"cho, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The striped mullet of California (Mugil cephalus, or
Mexicanus).

MACILENCY
Mac"i*len*cy, n. Etym: [See Macilent.]

Defn: Leanness.[Obs.] Sandys.

MACILENT
Mac"i*lent, a. Etym: [L. macilentus, fr. macies leanness, macere to
be lean.]

Defn: Lean; thin. [Obs.] Bailey.

MACINTOSH
Mac"in*tosh, n.

Defn: Same as Mackintosh.

MACKEREL
Mack"er*el, n. Etym: [OF. maquerel, F. maquereau, fr. D. makelaar
mediator, agent, fr. makelen to act as agent.]

Defn: A pimp; also, a bawd. [Obs.] Halliwell.

MACKEREL
Mack`er*el, n. Etym: [OF. maquerel, F. maquereau (LL. macarellus),
prob. for maclereau, fr. L. macula a spot, in allusion to the
markings on the fish. See Mail armor.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of the genus Scomber, and of several related
genera. They are finely formed and very active oceanic fishes. Most
of them are highly prized for food.

Note: The common mackerel (Scomber scombrus), which inhabits both
sides of the North Atlantic, is one of the most important food
fishes. It is mottled with green and blue. The Spanish mackerel
(Scomberomorus maculatus), of the American coast, is covered with
bright yellow circular spots. Bull mackerel, Chub mackerel. (Zoöl.)
See under Chub.
 -- Frigate mackerel. See under Frigate.
 -- Horse mackerel . See under Horse.
 -- Mackerel bird (Zoöl.), the wryneck; -- so called because it
arrives in England at the time when mackerel are in season.
 -- Mackerel cock (Zoöl.), the Manx shearwater; -- so called because
it precedes the appearance of the mackerel on the east coast of
Ireland.
 -- Mackerel guide. (Zoöl.) See Garfish (a).
 -- Mackerel gull (Zoöl.) any one of several species of gull which
feed upon or follow mackerel, as the kittiwake.
 -- Mackerel midge (Zoöl.), a very small oceanic gadoid fish of the
North Atlantic. It is about an inch and a half long and has four
barbels on the upper jaw. It is now considered the young of the genus
Onos, or Motella.
 -- Mackerel plow, an instrument for creasing the sides of lean
mackerel to improve their appearance. Knight.
 -- Mackerel shark (Zoöl.), the porbeagle.
 -- Mackerel sky, or Mackerel-back sky, a sky flecked with small
white clouds; a cirro-cumulus. See Cloud.
Mackerel sky and mare's-tails Make tall ships carry low sails. Old
Rhyme.

MACKINAW BLANKET; MACKINAW
Mack"i*naw blan"ket, Mack"i*naw.Etym: [From Mackinac,the State of
Michigan, where blankets and other stores were distributed to the
Indians.]

Defn: A thick blanket formerly in common use in the western part of
the United States.

MACKINAW BOAT
Mack"i*naw boat.

Defn: A flat-bottomed boat with a pointed prow and square stern,
using oars or sails or both, used esp. on the upper Great Lakes and
their tributaries.

MACKINAW COAT
Mackinaw coat.

Defn: A short, heavy, double-breasted plaid coat, the design of which
is large and striking. [Local, U. S.]

MACKINAW TROUT
Mackinaw trout.

Defn: The namaycush.

MACKINTOSH
Mack"in*tosh, n.

Defn: A waterproof outer garment; -- so called from the name of the
inventor.

MACKLE
Mac`kle, n. Etym: [See Macle.]

Defn: Same Macule.

MACKLE
Mac"kle, v. t. & i.

Defn: To blur, or be blurred, in printing, as if there were a double
impression.

MACLE
Ma"cle, n. Etym: [L. macula a spot: cf. F. macle. Cf. Mackle,
Mascle.] (Min.)
(a) Chiastolite; -- so called from the tessellated appearance of a
cross section. See Chiastolite.
(b) A crystal having a similar tessellated appearance.
(c) A twin crystal.

MACLED
Ma"cled, a.

1. (Min.)
(a) Marked like macle (chiastolite).
(b) Having a twin structure. See Twin, a.

2. See Mascled.

MACLUREA
Ma*clu"re*a, n. Etym: [NL. Named from William Maclure, the
geologist.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of spiral gastropod shells, often of large size,
characteristic of the lower Silurian rocks.

MACLURIN
Ma*clu"rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Morintannic.

MACRAME LACE
Mac"ra*me lace".

Defn: A coarse lace made of twine, used especially in decorating
furniture.

MACRENCEPHALIC; MACRENCEPHALOUS
Mac`ren*ce*phal"ic, Mac`ren*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Macro +
encephalic, encephalous.]

Defn: Having a large brain.

MACRO-
Mac"ro-. Etym: [Gr. makro`s, adj.]

Defn: A combining form signifying long, large, great; as
macrodiagonal, macrospore.

MACROBIOTIC
Mac`ro*bi*ot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. macrobiotique.]

Defn: Long-lived. Dunglison.

MACROBIOTICS
Mac`ro*bi*ot"ics, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The art of prolonging life.

MACROCEPHALOUS
Mac`ro*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Macro + Gr. kefalh` the head.]

1. Having a large head.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the cotyledons of a dicotyledonous embryo confluent, and
forming a large mass compared with the rest of the body. Henslow.

MACRO-CHEMISTRY
Mac`ro-chem"is*try, n. Etym: [Macro- + chemistry.] (Chem.)

Defn: The science which treats of the chemical properties, actions or
relations of substances in quantity; -- distinguished from micro-
chemistry.

MACROCHIRES
Mac`ro*chi"res, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of birds including the swifts and humming birds. So
called from the length of the distal part of the wing.

MACROCOSM
Mac"ro*cosm, n. Etym: [Macro- + Gr. macrocosme.]

Defn: The great world; that part of the universe which is exterior to
man; -- contrasted with microcosm, or man. See Microcosm.

MACROCOSMIC
Mac`ro*cos"mic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the macrocosm. Tylor.

MACROCYSTIS
Mac`ro*cys"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Macro-, and Cyst.] (Bot.)

Defn: An immensely long blackish seaweed of the Pacific (Macrocystis
pyrifera), having numerous almond-shaped air vessels.

MACRODACTYL
Mac`ro*dac"tyl, n. Etym: [Gr. macrodactyle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of wading birds (Macrodactyli) having very long
toes. [Written also macrodactyle.]

MACRODACTYLIC; MACRODACTYLOUS
Mac`ro*dac*tyl"ic, Mac`ro*dac"tyl*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having long toes.

MACRODIAGONAL
Mac`ro*di*ag"o*nal, n. Etym: [Macro- + diagonal.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: The longer of two diagonals, as of a rhombic prism. See
Crystallization.

MACRODOME
Mac"ro*dome, n. Etym: [Macro- + dome.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: A dome parallel to the longer lateral axis of an orthorhombic
crystal. See Dome, n., 4.

MACRODONT
Mac"ro*dont, a. Etym: [Macro- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having large teeth.
 -- n.

Defn: A macrodont animal.

MACROFARAD
Mac"ro*far`ad, n. Etym: [Macro- + farad.] (Elec.)

Defn: See Megafarad. [R.]

MACROGLOSSIA
Mac`ro*glos"si*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Macro-, and Glossa.] (Med.)

Defn: Enlargement or hypertrophy of the tongue.

MACROGNATHIC
Mac`rog*nath"ic, a. Etym: [Macro- + gnathic.] (Anthropol.)

Defn: Long-jawed. Huxley.

MACROGRAPH
Mac"ro*graph, n.  [Macro- + -graph.]

Defn: A picture of an object as seen by the naked eye (that is,
unmagnified); as, a macrograph of a metallic fracture.

MACROGRAPHY
Ma*crog"ra*phy, n.

Defn: Examination or study with the naked eye, as distinguished from
micrography.

MACROLOGY
Ma*crol"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. macrologia, Gr. macrologie.]

Defn: Long and tedious talk without much substance; superfluity of
words.

MACROMETER
Ma*crom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Macro- + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for determining the size or distance of
inaccessible objects by means of two reflectors on a common sextant.

MACRON
Ma"cron, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Pron.)

Defn: A short, straight, horizontal mark [-], placed over vowels to
denote that they are to be pronounced with a long sound; as, a, in
dame; e, in seam, etc.

MACROPETALOUS
Mac`ro*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Macro- + petal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having long or large petals.

MACROPHYLLOUS
Ma*croph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Macro- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having long or large leaves.

MACROPINACOID
Mac`ro*pin"a*coid, n. Etym: [Macro- + pinacoid.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: One of the two planes of an orthorhombic crystal which are
parallel to the vertical and longer lateral (macrodiagonal) axes.

MACROPOD
Mac"ro*pod, n. Etym: [Macro- + -pod.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of a group of maioid crabs remarkable for the length of
their legs; -- called also spider crab.

MACROPODAL
Ma*crop"o*dal, a.

Defn: Having long or large feet, or a long stem.

MACROPODIAN
Mac`ro*po"di*an, n.

Defn: A macropod.

MACROPODOUS
Ma*crop"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having long legs or feet.

MACROPRISM
Mac"ro*prism, n. Etym: [Macro- + prism.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: A prism of an orthorhombic crystal between the macropinacoid
and the unit prism; the corresponding pyramids are called
macropyramids.

MACROPTERES
Ma*crop"te*res, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of birds; the Longipennes.

MACROPTEROUS
Ma*crop"ter*ous, a. Etym: [See Macropteres.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having long wings.

MACROPUS
Mac"ro*pus, n. Etym: [NL. See Macropod.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: genus of marsupials including the common kangaroo.

MACROPYRAMID
Mac`ro*pyr"a*mid, n. Etym: [Macro- + pyramid.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: See Macroprism.

MACROSCOPIC; MACROSCOPICAL
Mac`ro*scop"ic, Mac`ro*scop"ic*al, a. Etym: [Macro- + Gr.

Defn: Visible to the unassisted eye; -- as opposed to microscopic.
 -- Mac`ro*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.

MACROSPORANGIUM
Mac`ro*spo*ran"gi*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Macro-, and Sporangium.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A sporangium or conceptacle containing only large spores; --
opposed to microsporangium. Both are found in the genera Selaginella,
Isoctes, and Marsilia, plants remotely allied to ferns.

MACROSPORE
Mac"ro*spore, n. Etym: [Macro- + spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the specially large spores of certain flowerless plants,
as Selaginella, etc.

MACROSPORIC
Mac`ro*spor"ic, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to macrospores.

MACROTONE
Mac"ro*tone, n. Etym: [Gr. Macro-, and Tone.] (Pron.)

Defn: Same as Macron.

MACROTOUS
Ma*cro"tous, a. Etym: [Macro- + Gr. o"y^s, gen. 'wto`s, the ear.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Large-eared.

MACROURA; MACROURAL
Ma*crou"ra, n. pl., Ma*crou"ral (, a., etc. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Macrura, Macrural, etc.

MACROZOOSPORE; MACROZOOESPORE
Mac`ro*zo"ö*spore, n. Etym: [Macro- + zoöspore.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large motile spore having four vibratile cilia; -- found in
certain green algæ.

MACRURA
Ma*cru"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A subdivision of decapod Crustacea, having the abdomen largely
developed. It includes the lobster, prawn, shrimp, and many similar
forms. Cf. Decapoda.

MACRURAL
Ma*cru"ral, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Macrurous.

MACRURAN
Ma*cru"ran, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Macrura.

MACRUROID
Ma*cru"roid, a. Etym: [Macrura + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Macrura.

MACRUROUS
Ma*cru"rous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Macrura; having a long tail.

MACTATION
Mac*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. mactatio, fr. macture to slay, sacrifice.]

Defn: The act of killing a victim for sacrifice. [Obs.]

MACTRA
Mac"tra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any marine bivalve shell of the genus Mactra, and allied
genera. Many species are known. Some of them are used as food, as
Mactra stultorum, of Europe. See Surf clam, under Surf.

MACULA
Mac"u*la, n.; pl. Maculæ. Etym: [L., spot, stain, blot. See Mail
armor, and cf. Mackle, Macule.]

1. A spot, as on the skin, or on the surface of the sun or of some
other luminous orb.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A rather large spot or blotch of color.

MACULATE
Mac"u*late, v. t. Etym: [L. maculatus, p. p. of maculare to spot. See
Macula, and cf. Macule, v.]

Defn: To spot; to stain; to blur.
Maculate the honor of their people. Sir T. Elyot.

MACULATE
Mac"u*late, a. Etym: [L. maculatus, p. p.]

Defn: Marked with spots or maculæ; blotched; hence, defiled; impure;
as, most maculate thoughts. Shak.

MACULATED
Mac"u*la`ted, a.

Defn: Having spots or blotches; maculate.

MACULATION
Mac"u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. maculatio.]

Defn: The act of spotting; a spot; a blemish. Shak.

MACULATORY
Mac"u*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Causing a spot or stain. T. Adams.

MACULATURE
Mac"u*la*ture, n

Defn: , Blotting paper. [Obs.]

MACULE
Mac"ule, n. Etym: [F. macule. See Macula.]

1. A spot. [Obs.]

2. (Print.)

Defn: A blur, or an appearance of a double impression, as when the
paper slips a little; a mackle.

MACULE
Mac"ule, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. maculer. See Maculate,v.]

Defn: To blur; especially (Print.), to blur or double an impression
from type. See Mackle.

MACULOSE
Mac"u*lose`, a. Etym: [L. maculosus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to spots upon a surface; spotted; maculate.

MAD
Mad, obs. p. p.

Defn: of Made. Chaucer.

MAD
Mad, a. [Compar. Madder; superl. Maddest.] Etym: [AS. gem, gemad,
mad; akin to OS. gem foolish, OHG. gameit, Icel. mei to hurt, Goth.
gamáids weak, broken.

1. Disordered in intellect; crazy; insane.
I have heard my grandsire say full oft, Extremity of griefs would
make men mad. Shak.

2. Excited beyond self-control or the restraint of reason; inflamed
by violent or uncontrollable desire, passion, or appetite; as, to be
mad with terror, lust, or hatred; mad against political reform.
It is the land of graven images, and they are mad upon their idols.
Jer. 1. 88.
And being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted them even unto
strange cities. Acts xxvi. 11.

3. Proceeding from, or indicating, madness; expressing distraction;
prompted by infatuation, fury, or extreme rashness. "Mad demeanor."
Milton.
Mad wars destroy in one year the works of many years of peace.
Franklin.
The mad promise of Cleon was fulfilled. Jowett (Thucyd.).

4. Extravagant; immoderate. "Be mad and merry." Shak. "Fetching mad
bounds." Shak.

5. Furious with rage, terror, or disease; -- said of the lower
animals; as, a mad bull; esp., having hydrophobia; rabid; as, a mad
dog.

6. Angry; out of patience; vexed; as, to get mad at a person.
[Colloq.]

7. Having impaired polarity; -- applied to a compass needle.
[Colloq.] Like mad, like a mad person; in a furious manner; as, to
run like mad. L'Estrange.
 -- To run mad. (a) To become wild with excitement. (b) To run wildly
about under the influence of hydrophobia; to become affected with
hydrophobia.
 -- To run mad after, to pursue under the influence of infatuation or
immoderate desire. "The world is running mad after farce." Dryden.

MAD
Mad, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Madded; p. pr. & vb. n. Madding.]

Defn: To make mad or furious; to madden.
Had I but seen thy picture in this plight, It would have madded me.
Shak.

MAD
Mad, v. i.

Defn: To be mad; to go mad; to rave. See Madding. [Archaic] Chaucer.
Festus said with great voice, Paul thou maddest. Wyclif (Acts).

MAD
Mad, n. Etym: [AS. ma; akin to D. & G. made, Goth. mapa, and prob. to
E. moth.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An earthworm. [Written also made.]

MADAM
Mad"am, n.; pl. Madams, or Mesdames. Etym: [See Madame.]

Defn: A gentlewoman; -- an appellation or courteous form of address
given to a lady, especially an elderly or a married lady; -- much
used in the address, at the beginning of a letter, to a woman. The
corresponding word in addressing a man is Sir.

MADAME
Ma`dame", n.; pl. Mesdames. Etym: [F., fr. ma my (L. mea) + dame
dame. See Dame, and cf. Madonna.]

Defn: My lady; -- a French title formerly given to ladies of quality;
now, in France, given to all married women. Chaucer.

MAD-APPLE
Mad"-ap`ple, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Eggplant.

MADBRAIN
Mad"brain`, a.

Defn: Hot-headed; rash. Shak.
 -- n.

Defn: A rash or hot-headed person.

MADBRAINED
Mad"brained`, a.

Defn: Disordered in mind; hot-headed. Shak.

MADCAP
Mad"cap`, a.

1. Inclined to wild sports; delighting in rash, absurd, or dangerous
amusements. "The merry madcap

Defn: lord." Shak.

2. Wild; reckless. "Madcap follies" Beau. & Fl.

MADCAP
Mad"cap`, n.

Defn: A person of wild behavior; an excitable, rash, violent person.
Shak.

MADDEN
Mad"den, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Maddened; p. pr. & vb. n. Maddening.]

Defn: To make mad; to drive to madness; to craze; to excite violently
with passion; to make very angry; to enrage.

MADDEN
Mad"den, v. i.

Defn: To become mad; to act as if mad.
They rave, recite, and madden round the land. Pope.

MADDER
Mad"der, n. Etym: [OE. mader, AS. mædere; akin to Icel. ma.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the Rubia (R. tinctorum). The root is much used in
dyeing red, and formerly was used in medicine. It is cultivated in
France and Holland. See Rubiaceous.

Note: Madder is sometimes used in forming pigments, as lakes, etc.,
which receive their names from their colors; as. madder yellow. Field
madder, an annual European weed (Sherardia arvensis) resembling
madder.
 -- Indian madder , the East Indian Rubia cordifolia, used in the
East for dyeing; -- called also munjeet.
 -- Wild madder, Rubia peregrina of Europe; also the Galium Mollugo,
a kind of bedstraw.

MADDERWORT
Mad"der*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name proposed for any plant of the same natural order
(Rubiaceæ) as the madder.

MADDING
Mad"ding, a.

Defn: Affected with madness; raging; furious.
 -- Mad"ding*ly, adv. [Archaic]
Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife. Gray.
The madding wheels Of brazen chariots raged. Milton.

MADDISH
Mad"dish, a.

Defn: Somewhat mad. Beau. & Fl.

MADE
Made, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mad, n.

MADE
Made, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Make.

MADE
Made, a.

Defn: Artificially produced; pieced together; formed by filling in;
as, made ground; a made mast, in distinction from one consisting of a
single spar. Made up. (a) Complete; perfect. "A made up villain."
Shak. (b) Falsely devised; fabricated; as, a made up story. (c)
Artificial; as, a made up figure or complexion.

MADECASS; MADECASSEE
Mad"e*cass, Mad`e*cas"see, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Madagascar, or Madecassee; the
language of the natives of Madagascar. See Malagasy.

MADECASSEE
Mad`e*cas"see, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Madagascar or its inhabitants.

MADEFACTION; MADEFICATION
Mad`e*fac"tion, Mad`e*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. madefacere to make
wet; madere to be wet + facere to make: cf. F. madéfaction.]

Defn: The act of madefying, or making wet; the state of that which is
made wet. [R.] Bacon.

MADEFY
Mad"e*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Madefied; p. pr. & vb. n. Madefying.]
Etym: [Cf. F. madéfier, L. madefacere. See Madefaction.]

Defn: To make wet or moist. [R.]

MADEGASSY
Mad`e*gas"sy, n. & a.

Defn: See Madecassee.

MADEIRA
Ma*dei"ra, n. Etym: [Pg., the Island Madeira, properly, wood, fr. L.
materia stuff, wood. The island was so called because well wooded.
See Matter.]

Defn: A rich wine made on the Island of Madeira.
A cup of Madeira, and a cold capon's leg. Shak.
Madeira nut (Bot.), the European walnut; the nut of the Juglans
regia.

MADEIRA VINE
Ma*dei"ra vine. (Bot.)

Defn: A herbaceous climbing vine (Boussingaultia baselloides) very
popular in cultivation, having shining entire leaves and racemes of
small fragrant white flowers.

MADEIRA WOOD
Madeira wood. (Bot.)
 (a) The mahogany tree (Swietenia Mahogoni).
 (b) A West Indian leguminous tree (Lysiloma Latisiliqua) the wood of
which is used for boat trimming.

MADEMOISELLE
Ma`de*moi`selle", n.; pl. Mesdemoiselles. Etym: [F., fr. ma my, f. of
mon + demoiselle young lady. See Damsel.]

1. A French title of courtesy given to a girl or an unmarried lady,
equivalent to the English Miss. Goldsmith.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine food fish (Sciæna chrysura), of the Southern United
States; -- called also yellowtail, and silver perch.

MADGE
Madge, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. & Prov. F. machette.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The barn owl.
(b) The magpie.

MAD-HEADED
Mad"-head`ed, a.

Defn: Wild; crack-brained.

MADHOUSE
Mad"house`, n.

Defn: A house where insane persons are confined; an insane asylum; a
bedlam.

MADIA
Ma"di*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Sp. madi, fr. Chilian madi, the native
name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of composite plants, of which one species (Madia
sativa) is cultivated for the oil yielded from its seeds by pressure.
This oil is sometimes used instead of olive oil for the table.

MADID
Mad"id, a. Etym: [L. madidus, fr. madere to be wet.]

Defn: Wet; moist; as, a madid eye. [R.] Beaconsfield.

MADISTERIUM
Mad`is*te"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument to extract hairs.

MADJOUN
Mad"joun, n. Etym: [Hind., fr. Ar. ma'j.]

Defn: An intoxicating confection from the hemp plant; -- used by the
Turks and Hindoos. [Written also majoun.]

MADLY
Mad"ly, adv. Etym: [From Mad, a.]

Defn: In a mad manner; without reason or understanding; wildly.

MADMAN
Mad"man, n.; pl. Madmen (.

Defn: A man who is mad; lunatic; a crazy person.
When a man mistakes his thoughts for person and things, he is mad. A
madman is properly so defined. Coleridge.

MADNEP
Mad"nep, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The masterwort (Peucedanum Ostruthium).

MADNESS
Mad"ness, n. Etym: [From Mad, a.]

1. The condition of being mad; insanity; lunacy.

2. Frenzy; ungovernable rage; extreme folly.

Syn.
 -- Insanity; distraction; derangement; craziness; lunacy; mania;
frenzy; franticness; rage; aberration; alienation; monomania. See
Insanity.

MADONNA
Ma*don"na, n. Etym: [It. madonna my lady. See Dame, Donna, and cf.
Madame, Monkey.]

1. My lady; -- a term of address in Italian formerly used as the
equivalent of Madame, but for which Signora is now substituted.
Sometimes introduced into English. Shak.

2. [pl. Madonnas (naz).]

Defn: A picture of the Virgin Mary (usually with the babe).
The Italian painters are noted for drawing the Madonnas by their own
wives or mistresses. Rymer.

MADOQUA
Ma"do*qua, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small Abyssinian antelope (Neotragus Saltiana), about the
size of a hare.

MADRAGUE
Ma`drague", n. Etym: [R.]

Defn: A large fish pound used for the capture of the tunny in the
Mediterranean; also applied to the seines used for the same purpose.

MADRAS
Ma*dras", n. [So named after Madras, a city and presidency of India.]

Defn: A large silk-and-cotton kerchief, usually of bright colors,
such as those often used by negroes for turbans.

A black woman in blue cotton gown, red-and-yellow madras turban . . .
crouched against the wall.
G. W. Cable.

MADREPERL
Ma"dre*perl, n. Etym: [It. madreperla.]

Defn: Mother-of-pearl.

MADREPORA
Mad`re*po"ra, n. Etym: [NL. See Madre.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of reef corals abundant in tropical seas. It includes
than one hundred and fifty species, most of which are elegantly
branched.
 -- Mad`re*po"ral, a.

MADREPORARIA
Mad`re*po*ra"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Madrepore.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive division of Anthozoa, including most of the
species that produce stony corals. See Illust. of Anthozoa.
 -- Mad`re*po*ra"ri*an, a. & n.

MADREPORE
Mad"re*pore, n. Etym: [F. madrepore, perh. fr. madré spotted, fr. OF.
madre, mazre, a kind of knotty wood with brown spots, fr. OHG. masar
a knot, grain, or vein in wood, a speck, G. maser + pore (see Pore);
or perh. F. madrépore is rather from It. madrepora, and this perh.
fr. It. madre mother (see Mother) + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any coral of the genus Madrepora; formerly, often applied to
any stony coral.

MADREPORIAN; MADREPORIC
Mad`re*po"ri*an, Mad`re*po"ric, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling, or pertaining to, the genus Madrepora. Madreporic
plate (Zoöl.), a perforated plate in echinoderms, through which water
is admitted to the ambulacral tubes; -- called also madreporic
tubercule.

MADREPORIFORM
Mad`re*po"ri*form, a. Etym: [Madrepore + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling a madreporian coral in form or structure.

MADREPORITE
Mad"re*po*rite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. madréporite]

1. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil coral.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The madreporic plate of echinoderms.

MADRIER
Ma*drier", n. Etym: [F., from Sp. madero, or Pg. madeiro, fr. Sp.
madera wood for building, timber, Pg. madeira, L. materia stuff,
materials, lumber. See Matter.]

Defn: A thick plank, used for several mechanical purposes;
especially:
(a) A plank to receive the mouth of a petard, with which it is
applied to anything intended to be broken down.
(b) A plank or beam used for supporting the earth in mines or
fortifications.

MADRIGAL
Mad"ri*gal, n. Etym: [It. madrigale, OIt. madriale, mandriale (cf.
LL. matriale); of uncertain origin, possibly fr. It mandra flock, L.
mandra stall, herd of cattle, Gr. madrigal, originally, a pastoral
song.]

1. A little amorous poem, sometimes called a pastoral poem,
containing some tender and delicate, though simple, thought.
Whose artful strains have oft delayed The huddling brook to hear his
madrigal. Milton.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: An unaccompanied polyphonic song, in four, five, or more parts,
set to secular words, but full of counterpoint and imitation, and
adhering to the old church modes. Unlike the freer glee, it is best
sung with several voices on a part. See Glee.

MADRIGALER
Mad"ri*gal*er, n.

Defn: A madrigalist.

MADRIGALIST
Mad"ri*gal*ist, n.

Defn: A composer of madrigals.

MADRILENIAN
Mad`ri*le"ni*an, a. Etym: [Sp. Madrileno.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Madrid in Spain, or to its inhabitants.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Madrid.

MADRINA
Ma*dri"na, n. Etym: [Sp., prop., a godmother.]

Defn: An animal (usually an old mare), wearing a bell and acting as
the leader of a troop of pack mules. [S. America]

MADRO
Ma*dro"ña, n. [Sp. madroño.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small evergreen tree or shrub (Arbutus Menziesii), of
California, having a smooth bark, thick shining leaves, and edible
red berries, which are often called madroña apples. [Written also
madroño.]

MADRONA; MADRONYA
Ma*dro"ña, n. Etym: [Sp. madroño.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small evergreen tree or shrub (Arbutus Menziesii), of
California, having a smooth bark, thick shining leaves, and edible
red berries, which are often called madroña apples. [Written also
madroño.]

MADWORT
Mad"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of cruciferous plants (Alyssum) with white or yellow
flowers and rounded pods. A. maritimum is the commonly cultivated
sweet alyssum, a fragrant white-flowered annual.

MAEGBOTE; MAGBOTE
Mæg"bote`, Mag"bote`, n. Etym: [AS. mæg kinsman + bot compensation.]
(Anglo-Saxon Law)

Defn: Compensation for the injury done by slaying a kinsman. Spelman.

MAELSTROM
Mael"strom, n. Etym: [Norw., a whirlpool.]

1. A celebrated whirlpool on the coast of Norway.

2. Also Fig. ; as, a maelstrom of vice.

MAENAD
Mæ"nad, n. Etym: [L. Maenas, -adis, Gr.

1. A Bacchante; a priestess or votary of Bacchus.

2. A frantic or frenzied woman.

MAESTOSO
Ma`es*to"so, a. & adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Majestic or majestically; -- a direction to perform a passage
or piece of music in a dignified manner.

MAESTRICHT MONITOR
Maes"tricht mon"i*tor. Etym: [So called from Maestricht, a town in
Holland.] (Paleon.)

Defn: The Mosasaurus Hofmanni. See Mosasaurus.

MAESTRO
Ma*es"tro, n. Etym: [It., fr. L. magister. See Master.]

Defn: A master in any art, especially in music; a composer.

MAFFIA; MAFIA
Maf"fi*a, Ma"fi*a, n. [It. maffia.]

Defn: A secret society which organized in Sicily as a political
organization, but is now widespread among Italians, and is used to
further or protect private interests, reputedly by illegal methods.

MAFFIOSO; MAFIOSO
Maf`fi*o"so, Ma`fi*o"so, n.; pl. -si (#). [It. maffioso.]

Defn: A member of the maffia.

MAFFLE
Maf"fle, v. i. Etym: [Akin to OD. maffelen to stammer. Cf. Muffle to
mumble.]

Defn: To stammer. [Obs.]

MAFFLER
Maf"fler, n.

Defn: A stammerer. [Obs.]

MAGAZINE
Mag`a*zine", n. Etym: [F. magasin, It. magazzino, or Sp. magacen,
almagacen; all fr. Ar. makhzan, almakhzan, a storehouse, granary, or
cellar.]

1. A receptacle in which anything is stored, especially military
stores, as ammunition, arms, provisions, etc. "Armories and
magazines." Milton.

2. The building or room in which the supply of powder is kept in a
fortification or a ship.

3. A chamber in a gun for holding a number of cartridges to be fed
automatically to the piece.

4. A pamphlet published periodically containing miscellaneous papers
or compositions. Magazine dress, clothing made chiefly of woolen,
without anything metallic about it, to be worn in a powder magazine.
 -- Magazine gun, a portable firearm, as a rifle, with a chamber
carrying cartridges which are brought automatically into position for
firing.
 -- Magazine stove, a stove having a chamber for holding fuel which
is supplied to the fire by some self-feeding process, as in the
common base-burner.

MAGAZINE
Mag`a*zine", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Magazined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Magazining.]

Defn: To store in, or as in, a magazine; to store up for use.

MAGAZINE CAMERA
Magazine camera. (Photog.)

Defn: A camera in which a number of plates can be exposed without
reloading.

MAGAZINER
Mag`a*zin"er, n.

Defn: One who edits or writes for a magazine. [R.] Goldsmith.

MAGAZINING
Mag`a*zin"ing, n.

Defn: The act of editing, or writing for, a magazine. [Colloq.]
Byron.

MAGAZINIST
Mag`a*zin"ist, n.

Defn: One who edits or writes for a magazine. [R.]

MAGBOTE
Mag"bote`, n.

Defn: See Mægbote.

MAGDALA
Mag"da*la, a.

Defn: Designating an orange-red dyestuff obtained from naphthylamine,
and called magdala red, naphthalene red, etc.

MAGDALEN
Mag"da*len, n. Etym: [From Mary Magdalene, traditionally reported to
have been the repentant sinner forgiven by Christ. See Luke vii. 36.]

Defn: A reformed prostitute.

MAGDALEON
Mag*da"le*on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine in the form of a roll, a esp. a roll of plaster.

MAGDEBURG
Mag"de*burg, n.

Defn: A city of Saxony. Magdeburg centuries, Magdeburg hemispheres.
See under Century, and Hemisphere.

MAGE
Mage, n. Etym: [F. mage. See Magi.]

Defn: A magician. [Archaic] Spenser. Tennyson.

MAGELLANIC
Mag`el*lan"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or named from, Magellan, the navigator.
Magellenic clouds (Astron.), three conspicuous nebulæ near the south
pole, resembling thin white clouds.

MAGENTA
Ma*gen"ta, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An aniline dye obtained as an amorphous substance having a
green bronze surface color, which dissolves to a shade of red; also,
the color; -- so called from Magenta, in Italy, in allusion to the
battle fought there about the time the dye was discovered. Called
also fuchsine, roseïne, etc.

MAGGED
Magged, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Worn; fretted; as, a magged brace. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

MAGGIORE
Mag`gio"re, a. Etym: [It., from L. major, compar. of magnus great.
See Major.] (Mus.)

Defn: Greater, in respect to scales, intervals, etc., when used in
opposition to minor; major. Moore (Encyc. of Music).

MAGGOT
Mag"got, n. Etym: [W. macai, pl. maceiod, magiod, a worn or grub; cf.
magu to bread.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The footless larva of any fly. See Larval.

2. A whim; an odd fancy. Hudibras. Tennyson.

MAGGOTINESS
Mag"got*i*ness, n.

Defn: State of being maggoty.

MAGGOTISH
Mag"got*ish, a.

Defn: Full of whims or fancies; maggoty.

MAGGOT-PIE
Mag"got-pie`, n.

Defn: A magpie. [Obs.] Shak.

MAGGOTY
Mag"got*y, a.

1. Infested with maggots.

2. Full of whims; capricious. Norris.

MAGHET
Ma"ghet, n. Etym: [Cf. Fl. maghet maid.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name for daisies and camomiles of several kinds.

MAGI
Ma"gi, n. pl. Etym: [L., pl. of Magus, Gr. Mage, Magic.]

Defn: A caste of priests, philosophers, and magicians, among the
ancient Persians; hence, any holy men or sages of the East.
The inspired Magi from the Orient came. Sandys.

MAGIAN
Ma"gi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Magi.

MAGIAN
Ma"gi*an, n.

Defn: One of the Magi, or priests of the Zoroastrian religion in
Persia; an adherent of the Zoroastrian religion.
 -- Ma"gi*an*ism, n.

MAGIC
Mag"ic, n. Etym: [OE. magique, L. magice, Gr. Magic, a., and Magi.]

Defn: A comprehensive name for all of the pretended arts which claim
to produce effects by the assistance of supernatural beings, or
departed spirits, or by a mastery of secret forces in nature attained
by a study of occult science, including enchantment, conjuration,
witchcraft, sorcery, necromancy, incantation, etc.
An appearance made by some magic. Chaucer.
Celestial magic, a supposed supernatural power which gave to spirits
a kind of dominion over the planets, and to the planets an influence
over men.
 -- Natural magic, the art of employing the powers of nature to
produce effects apparently supernatural.
 -- Superstitious, or Geotic, magic, the invocation of devils or
demons, involving the supposition of some tacit or express agreement
between them and human beings.

Syn.
 -- Sorcery; witchcraft; necromancy; conjuration; enchantment.

MAGIC; MAGICAL
Mag"ic, Mag"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. magicus, Gr. magique. See Magi.]

1. Pertaining to the hidden wisdom supposed to be possessed by the
Magi; relating to the occult powers of nature, and the producing of
effects by their agency.

2. Performed by, or proceeding from, occult and superhuman agencies;
done by, or seemingly done by, enchantment or sorcery. Hence:
Seemingly requiring more than human power; imposing or startling in
performance; producing effects which seem supernatural or very
extraordinary; having extraordinary properties; as, a magic lantern;
a magic square or circle.
The painter's magic skill. Cowper.

Note: Although with certain words magic is used more than magical, --
as, magic circle, magic square, magic wand, -- we may in general say
magic or magical; as, a magic or magical effect; a magic or magical
influence, etc. But when the adjective is predicative, magical, and
not magic, is used; as, the effect was magical. Magic circle, a
series of concentric circles containing the numbers 12 to 75 in eight
radii, and having somewhat similar properties to the magic square.
 -- Magic humming bird (Zoöl.), a Mexican humming bird (Iache magica)
, having white downy thing tufts.
 -- Magic lantern. See Lantern.
 -- Magic square, numbers so disposed in parallel and equal rows in
the form of a square, that each row, taken vertically, horizontally,
or diagonally, shall give the same sum, the same product, or an
harmonical series, according as the numbers taken are in
arithmetical, geometrical, or harmonical progression.
 -- Magic wand, a wand used by a magician in performing feats of
magic.

MAGICALLY
Mag"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a magical manner; by magic, or as if by magic.

MAGICIAN
Ma*gi"cian, n. Etym: [F. magicien. See Magic, n.]

Defn: One skilled in magic; one who practices the black art; an
enchanter; a necromancer; a sorcerer or sorceress; a conjurer.

MAGILP; MAGILPH
Ma*gilp", Ma*gilph", n. (Paint.)

Defn: See Megilp.

MAGISTER
Ma*gis"ter, n. Etym: [L. See Master.]

Defn: Master; sir; -- a title of the Middle Ages, given to a person
in authority, or to one having a license from a university to teach
philosophy and the liberal arts.

MAGISTERIAL
Mag`is*te"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. magisterius magisterial. See Master.]

1. Of or pertaining to a master or magistrate, or one in authority;
having the manner of a magister; official; commanding; authoritative.
Hence: Overbearing; dictatorial; dogmatic.
When magisterial duties from his home Her father called. Glover.
We are not magisterial in opinions, nor, dictator-like, obtrude our
notions on any man. Sir T. Browne.
Pretenses go a great way with men that take fair words and
magisterial looks for current payment. L'Estrange.

2. (Alchem. & Old Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, produced by, or of the nature of, magistery. See
Magistery, 2.

Syn.
 -- Authoritative; stately; august; pompous; dignified; lofty;
commanding; imperious; lordly; proud; haughty; domineering; despotic;
dogmatical; arrogant.
 -- Magisterial, Dogmatical, Arrogant. One who is magisterial assumes
the air of a master toward his pupils; one who is dogmatical lays
down his positions in a tone of authority or dictation; one who is
arrogant in sults others by an undue assumption of superiority. Those
who have long been teachers sometimes acquire, unconsciously, a
manner which borders too much on the magisterial, and may be unjustly
construed as dogmatical, or even arrogant.

MAGISTERIALITY
Mag`is*te`ri*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: Magisterialness; authoritativeness. [R.] Fuller.

MAGISTERIALLY
Mag`is*te"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a magisterial manner.

MAGISTERIALNESS
Mag`is*te"ri*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being magisterial.

MAGISTERY
Mag"is*ter*y, n. Etym: [L. magisterium the office of a chief,
president, director, tutor. See Magistrate.]

1. Mastery; powerful medical influence; renowned efficacy; a
sovereign remedy. [Obs.] Holland.

2. A magisterial injunction. [R.] Brougham.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: A precipitate; a fine substance deposited by precipitation; --
applied in old chemistry to certain white precipitates from metallic
solutions; as, magistery of bismuth. Ure.

MAGISTRACY
Mag"is*tra*cy, n.; pl. Magistracies. Etym: [From Magistrate.]

1. The office or dignity of a magistrate. Blackstone.

2. The collective body of magistrates.

MAGISTRAL
Mag"is*tral, a. Etym: [L. magistralis: cf. F. magistral. See
Magistrate.]

1. Pertaining to a master; magisterial; authoritative; dogmatic.

2. Commanded or prescribed by a magister, esp. by a doctor; hence,
effectual; sovereign; as, a magistral sirup. "Some magistral opiate."
Bacon.

3. (Pharmacy)

Defn: Formulated extemporaneously, or for a special case; -- opposed
to officinal, and said of prescriptions and medicines. Dunglison.
Magistral line (Fort.), the guiding line, or outline, or outline, by
which the form of the work is determined. It is usually the crest
line of the parapet in fieldworks, or the top line of the escarp in
permanent fortifications.

MAGISTRAL
Mag"is*tral, n.

1. (Med.)

Defn: A sovereign medicine or remedy. [Obs.] Burton.

2. (Fort.)

Defn: A magistral line.

3. (Metal.)

Defn: Powdered copper pyrites used in the amalgamation of ores of
silver, as at the Spanish mines of Mexico and South America.

MAGISTRALITY
Mag`is*tral"i*ty, n.; pl. -ties (.

Defn: Magisterialness; arbitrary dogmatism. Bacon.

MAGISTRALLY
Mag"is*tral*ly, adv.

Defn: In a magistral manner. Abp. Bramhall.

MAGISTRATE
Mag"is*trate, n. Etym: [L. magistratus, fr. magister master: cf. F.
magistrat. See Master.]

Defn: A person clothed with power as a public civil officer; a public
civil officer invested with the executive government, or some branch
of it. "All Christian rulers and magistrates." Book of Com. Prayer.
Of magistrates some also are supreme, in whom the sovereign power of
the state resides; others are subordinate. Blackstone.

MAGISTRATIC; MAGISTRATICAL
Mag`is*trat"ic, Mag`is*trat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or proceeding from, a magistrate; having the
authority of a magistrate. Jer. Taylor.

MAGISTRATURE
Mag"is*tra`ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. magistrature.]

Defn: Magistracy. [Obs.]

MAGMA
Mag"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. Any crude mixture of mineral or organic matters in the state of a
thin paste. Ure.

2. (Med.)
(a) A thick residuum obtained from certain substances after the fluid
parts are expressed from them; the grounds which remain after
treating a substance with any menstruum, as water or alcohol.
(b) A salve or confection of thick consistency. Dunglison.

3. (Geol.)
(a) The molten matter within the earth, the source of the material of
lava flows, dikes of eruptive rocks, etc.
(b) The glassy base of an eruptive rock.

4. (Chem.)

Defn: The amorphous or homogenous matrix or ground mass, as
distinguished from well-defined crystals; as, the magma of porphyry.

MAGNA CHARTA
Mag"na Char"ta. Etym: [L., great charter.]

1. The great Charter, so called, obtained by the English barons from
King John, A. D. 1215. This name is also given to the charter granted
to the people of England in the ninth year of Henry III., and
confirmed by Edward I.

2. Hence, a fundamental constitution which guaranties rights and
privileges.

MAGNALITY
Mag*nal"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. magnalis mighty, fr. magnus great.]

Defn: A great act or event; a great attainment. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

MAGNANIMITY
Mag`na*nim"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. magnanimité, L. magnanimitas.]

Defn: The quality of being magnanimous; greatness of mind; elevation
or dignity of soul; that quality or combination of qualities, in
character, which enables one to encounter danger and trouble with
tranquility and firmness, to disdain injustice, meanness and revenge,
and to act and sacrifice for noble objects.

MAGNANIMOUS
Mag*nan"i*mous, a.Etym: [L. magnanimus; magnus great + animus mind.
See Magnate, and Animus.]

1. Great of mind; elevated in soul or in sentiment; raised above what
is low, mean, or ungenerous; of lofty and courageous spirit; as, a
magnanimous character; a magnanimous conqueror.
Be magnanimous in the enterprise. Shak.
To give a kingdom hath been thought Greater and nobler done, and to
law down Far more magnanimousan to assume. Milton.

2. Dictated by or exhibiting nobleness of soul; honorable; noble; not
selfish.
Both strived for death; magnanimous debate. Stirling.
There is an indissoluble union between a magnanimous policy and the
solid rewards of public prosperity and felicity. Washington.

MAGNANIMOUSLY
Mag*nan"i*mous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a magnanimous manner; with greatness of mind.

MAGNASE BLACK
Mag"nase black`. (Paint.)

Defn: A black pigment which dries rapidly when mixed with oil, and is
of intense body. Fairholt.

MAGNATE
Mag"nate, Etym: [F. magnat, L. (pl.) magnates, magnati, fr. magnus
great. See Master.]

1. A person of rank; a noble or grandee; a person of influence or
distinction in any sphere. Macaulay.

2. One of the nobility, or certain high officers of state belonging
to the noble estate in the national representation of Hungary, and
formerly of Poland.

MAGNES
Mag"nes, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Magnet. [Obs.] Spenser.

MAGNESIA
Mag*ne"si*a, n. Etym: [L. Magnesia, fem. of Magnesius of the country
Magnesia, Gr. Magnet.] (Chem.)

Defn: A light earthy white substance, consisting of magnesium oxide,
and obtained by heating magnesium hydrate or carbonate, or by burning
magnesium. It has a slightly alkaline reaction, and is used in
medicine as a mild antacid laxative. See Magnesium. Magnesia alba
Etym: [L.] (Med. Chem.), a bulky white amorphous substance,
consisting of a hydrous basic carbonate of magnesium, and used as a
mild cathartic.

MAGNESIAN
Mag*ne"sian, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, characterized by, or containing, magnesia or
magnesium. Magnesian limestone. (Min.) See Dolomite.

MAGNESIC
Mag*ne"sic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, magnesium; as, magnesic oxide.

MAGNESITE
Mag"ne*site, n. Etym: [Cf. F. magnésite.] (Min.)

Defn: Native magnesium carbonate occurring in white compact or
granular masses, and also in rhombohedral crystals.

MAGNESIUM
Mag*ne"si*um, n. Etym: [NL. & F. See Magnesia.] (Chem.)

Defn: A light silver-white metallic element, malleable and ductile,
quite permanent in dry air but tarnishing in moist air. It burns,
forming (the oxide) magnesia, with the production of a blinding light
(the so-called magnesium light) which is used in signaling, in
pyrotechny, or in photography where a strong actinic illuminant is
required. Its compounds occur abundantly, as in dolomite, talc,
meerschaum, etc. Symbol Mg. Atomic weight, 24.4. Specific gravity,
1.75. Magnesium sulphate. (Chem.) Same as Epsom salts.

MAGNET
Mag"net, n. Etym: [OE. magnete, OF. magnete, L. magnes, -etis, Gr.
Magnesia, Manganese.]

1. The loadstone; a species of iron ore (the ferrosoferric or
magnetic ore, Fe3O4) which has the property of attracting iron and
some of its ores, and, when freely suspended, of pointing to the
poles; -- called also natural magnet.
Dinocrates began to make the arched roof of the temple of Arsinoë all
of magnet, or this loadstone. Holland.
Two magnets, heaven and earth, allure to bliss, The larger loadstone
that, the nearer this. Dryden.

2. (Physics)

Defn: A bar or mass of steel or iron to which the peculiar properties
of the loadstone have been imparted; -- called, in distinction from
the loadstone, an artificial magnet.

Note: An artificial magnet, produced by the action of a voltaic or
electrical battery, is called an electro-magnet. Field magnet
(Physics & Elec.), a magnet used for producing and maintaining a
magnetic field; -- used especially of the stationary or exciting
magnet of a dynamo or electromotor in distinction from that of the
moving portion or armature.

MAGNETIC; MAGNETICAL
Mag*net"ic, Mag*net"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. magneticus: cf. F.
magnétique.]

1. Pertaining to the magnet; possessing the properties of the magnet,
or corresponding properties; as, a magnetic bar of iron; a magnetic
needle.

2. Of or pertaining to, or characterized by,, the earth's magnetism;
as, the magnetic north; the magnetic meridian.

3. Capable of becoming a magnet; susceptible to magnetism; as, the
magnetic metals.

4. Endowed with extraordinary personal power to excite the feelings
and to win the affections; attractive; inducing attachment.
She that had all magnetic force alone. Donne.

5. Having, susceptible to, or induced by, animal magnetism, so
called; as, a magnetic sleep. See Magnetism. Magnetic amplitude,
attraction, dip, induction, etc. See under Amplitude, Attraction,
etc.
 -- Magnetic battery, a combination of bar or horseshoe magnets with
the like poles adjacent, so as to act together with great power.
 -- Magnetic compensator, a contrivance connected with a ship's
compass for compensating or neutralizing the effect of the iron of
the ship upon the needle.
 -- Magnetic curves, curves indicating lines of magnetic force, as in
the arrangement of iron filings between the poles of a powerful
magnet.
 -- Magnetic elements. (a) (Chem. Physics) Those elements, as iron,
nickel, cobalt, chromium, manganese, etc., which are capable or
becoming magnetic. (b) (Physics) In respect to terrestrial magnetism,
the declination, inclination, and intensity. (c) See under Element.
 -- Magnetic equator, the line around the equatorial parts of the
earth at which there is no dip, the dipping needle being horizontal.
 -- Magnetic field, or Field of magnetic force, any space through
which magnet exerts its influence.
 -- Magnetic fluid, the hypothetical fluid whose existence was
formerly assumed in the explanations of the phenomena of magnetism.
 -- Magnetic iron, or Magnetic iron ore. (Min.) Same as Magnetite.
 -- Magnetic needle, a slender bar of steel, magnetized and suspended
at its center on a sharp-pointed pivot, or by a delicate fiber, so
that it may take freely the direction of the magnetic meridian. It
constitutes the essential part of a compass, such as the mariner's
and the surveyor's.
 -- Magnetic poles, the two points in the opposite polar regions of
the earth at which the direction of the dipping needle is vertical.
 -- Magnetic pyrites. See Pyrrhotite.
 -- Magnetic storm (Terrestrial Physics), a disturbance of the
earth's magnetic force characterized by great and sudden changes.
 -- Magnetic telegraph, a telegraph acting by means of a magnet. See
Telegraph.

MAGNETIC
Mag*net"ic, n.

1. A magnet. [Obs.]
As the magnetic hardest iron draws. Milton.

2. Any metal, as iron, nickel, cobalt, etc., which may receive, by
any means, the properties of the loadstone, and which then, when
suspended, fixes itself in the direction of a magnetic meridian.

MAGNETICALLY
Mag*net"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By or as by, magnetism.

MAGNETICALNESS
Mag*net"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being magnetic.

MAGNETICIAN
Mag`ne*ti"cian, n.

Defn: One versed in the science of magnetism; a magnetist.

MAGNETICNESS
Mag*net"ic*ness, n.

Defn: Magneticalness. [Obs.]

MAGNETICS
Mag*net"ics, n.

Defn: The science of magnetism.

MAGNETIFEROUS
Mag`net*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. magnes, -etis + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing or conducting magnetism.

MAGNETISM
Mag"net*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. magnétisme.]

Defn: The property, quality, or state, of being magnetic; the
manifestation of the force in nature which is seen in a magnet.

2. The science which treats of magnetic phenomena.

3. Power of attraction; power to excite the feelings and to gain the
affections. "By the magnetism of interest our affections are
irresistibly attracted." Glanvill. Animal magnetism, a force, more or
less analogous to magnetism, which, it has been alleged, is produced
in animal tissues, and passes from one body to another with or
without actual contact. The existence of such a force, and its
potentiality for the cure of disease, were asserted by Mesmer in
1775. His theories and methods were afterwards called mesmerism, a
name which has been popularly applied to theories and claims not put
forward by Mesmer himself. See Mesmerism, Biology, Od, Hypnotism.
 -- Terrestrial magnetism, the magnetic force exerted by the earth,
and recognized by its effect upon magnetized needles and bars.

MAGNETIST
Mag"net*ist, n.

Defn: One versed in magnetism.

MAGNETITE
Mag"net*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: An oxide of iron (Fe3O4) occurring in isometric crystals, also
massive, of a black color and metallic luster. It is readily
attracted by a magnet and sometimes possesses polarity, being then
called loadstone. It is an important iron ore. Called also magnetic
iron.

MAGNETIZABLE
Mag"net*i`za*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of magnetized.

MAGNETIZATION
Mag`net*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of magnetizing, or the state of being magnetized.

MAGNETIZE
Mag"net*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Magnetized; prep. & adv.
Magnetizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. magnétiser.]

1. To communicate magnetic properties to; as, to magnetize a needle.

2. To attract as a magnet attracts, or like a magnet; to move; to
influence.
Fascinated, magnetized, as it were, by his character. Motley.

3. To bring under the influence of animal magnetism.

MAGNETIZEE
Mag`net*i*zee", n.

Defn: A person subjected to the influence of animal magnetism. [R.]

MAGNETIZER
Mag"net*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, imparts magnetism.

MAGNETO-
Mag"net*o-. Etym: [See Magnet.]

Defn: A prefix meaning pertaining to, produced by, or in some way
connected with, magnetism.

MAGNETO-ELECTRIC; MAGNETO-ELECTRICAL
Mag`net*o-e*lec"tric, Mag`net*o-e*lec"tric*al, a. (Physics)

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, electricity by the action
of magnets; as, magneto-electric induction. Magneto-electric machine,
a form of dynamo-electric machine in which the field is maintained by
permanent steel magnets instead of electro-magnets.

MAGNETO-ELECTRICITY
Mag`net*o-e`lec*tric"i*ty, n.

1. Electricity evolved by the action of magnets.

2. (Physics)

Defn: That branch of science which treats of the development of
electricity by the action of magnets; -- the counterpart of electro-
magnetism.

MAGNETOGRAPH
Mag*net"o*graph, n. Etym: [Magneto- + -graph.] (Physics)

Defn: An automatic instrument for registering, by photography or
otherwise, the states and variations of any of the terrestrial
magnetic elements.

MAGNETOMETER
Mag`net*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Magneto- + -meter: cf. F. magnétomètre.]
(Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the intensity of magnetic forces;
also, less frequently, an instrument for determining any of the
terrestrial magnetic elements, as the dip and declination.

MAGNETOMETRIC
Mag`net*o*met"ric, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or employed in, the measurement of magnetic
forces; obtained by means of a magnetometer; as, magnetometric
instruments; magnetometric measurements.

MAGNETOMOTIVE
Mag`net*o*mo"tive, a.  [Magneto-+ motive, a.] (Elec.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a force producing magnetic flux,
analogous to electromotive force, and equal to the magnetic flux
multiplied by the magnetic reluctance.

MAGNETOMOTOR
Mag`net*o*mo"tor, n.

Defn: A voltaic series of two or more large plates, producing a great
quantity of electricity of low tension, and hence adapted to the
exhibition of electro-magnetic phenomena. [R.]

MAGNETOTHERAPY
Mag`net*o*ther"a*py, n. (Med.)

Defn: The treatment of disease by the application of magnets to the
surface of the body.

MAGNIFIABLE
Mag"ni*fi`a*ble, a. Etym: [From Magnify.]

Defn: Such as can be magnified, or extolled.

MAGNIFIC; MAGNIFICAL
Mag*nif"ic, Mag*nif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. magnificus; magnus great +
facere to make: cf. F. magnifique. See Magnitude, Fact. and cf.
Magnificent.]

Defn: Grand; splendid; illustrious; magnificent. [Obs.] 1 Chron.
xxii. 5. "Thy magnific deeds." Milton.
 -- Mag*nif"ic*al*ly, adv. [Obs.]

MAGNIFICAT
Mag*nif"i*cat, n. Etym: [L., it magnifies.]

Defn: The song of the Virgin Mary, Luke i. 46; -- so called because
it commences with this word in the Vulgate.

MAGNIFICATE
Mag*nif"i*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. magnificatus, p. p. of magnificare.]

Defn: To magnify or extol. [Obs.] Marston.

MAGNIFICATION
Mag`ni*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act of magnifying; enlargement; exaggeration. [R.]

MAGNIFICENCE
Mag*nif"i*cence, n. Etym: [F. magnificence, L. magnificentia. See
Magnific.]

Defn: The act of doing what magnificent; the state or quality of
being magnificent. Acts xix. 27. "Then cometh magnificence." Chaucer.
And, for the heaven's wide circuit, let it speak The Maker's high
magnificence, who built so spacious. Milton.
The noblest monuments of Roman magnificence. Eustace.

MAGNIFICENT
Mag*nif"i*cent, a. Etym: [See Magnificence.]

1. Doing grand things; admirable in action; displaying great power or
opulence, especially in building, way of living, and munificence.
A prince is never so magnificent As when he's sparing to enrich a few
With the injuries of many. Massinger.

2. Grand in appearance; exhibiting grandeur or splendor; splendid'
pompous.
When Rome's exalted beauties I descry Magnificent in piles of ruin
lie. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Glorious; majestic; sublime. See Grand.

MAGNIFICENTLY
Mag*nif"i*cent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a Magnificent manner.

MAGNIFICO
Mag*nif"i*co, n.; pl. Magnificoes. Etym: [It. See Magnific.]

1. A grandee or nobleman of Venice; -- so called in courtesy. Shak.

2. A rector of a German university.

MAGNIFIER
Mag"ni*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, magnifies.

MAGNIFY
Mag"ni*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Magnified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Magnifying.] Etym: [OE. magnifien, F. magnifier, L. magnificare. See
Magnific.]

1. To make great, or greater; to increase the dimensions of; to
amplify; to enlarge, either in fact or in appearance; as, the
microscope magnifies the object by a thousand diameters.
The least error in a small quantity . . . will in a great one . . .
be proportionately magnified. Grew.

2. To increase the importance of; to augment the esteem or respect in
which one is held.
On that day the Lord magnified Joshua in the sight of all Israel.
Joshua iv. 14.

3. To praise highly; to land; to extol. [Archaic]
O, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. Ps.
xxxiv. 3.

4. To exaggerate; as, to magnify a loss or a difficulty. To magnify
one's self (Script.), to exhibit pride and haughtiness; to boast.
 -- To magnify one's self against (Script.), to oppose with pride.

MAGNIFY
Mag"ni*fy, v. i.

1. To have the power of causing objects to appear larger than they
really are; to increase the apparent dimensions of objects; as, some
lenses magnify but little.

2. To have effect; to be of importance or significance. [Cant & Obs.]
Spectator. Magnifying glass, a lens which magnifies the apparent
dimensions of objects seen through it.

MAGNILOQUENCE
Mag*nil"o*quence, n. Etym: [L. magniloquentia.]

Defn: The quality of being magniloquent; pompous discourse;
grandiloquence.

MAGNILOQUENT
Mag*nil"o*quent, a. Etym: [L. magnus great + loquens, -entis, p. pr.
of loqui to speak. See Magnitude, Loquacious.]

Defn: Speaking pompously; using swelling discourse; bombastic; tumid
in style; grandiloquent.
 -- Mag*nil"o*quent*ly, adv.

MAGNILOQUOUS
Mag*nil"o*quous, a. Etym: [L. magniloquus.]

Defn: Magniloquent. [Obs.]

MAGNITUDE
Mag"ni*tude, n. Etym: [L. magnitudo, from magnus great. See Master,
and cf. Maxim.]

1. Extent of dimensions; size; -- applied to things that have length,
breath, and thickness.
Conceive those particles of bodies to be so disposed amongst
themselves, that the intervals of empty spaces between them may be
equal in magnitude to them all. Sir I. Newton.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: That which has one or more of the three dimensions, length,
breadth, and thickness.

3. Anything of which greater or less can be predicated, as time,
weight, force, and the like.

4. Greatness; grandeur. "With plain, heroic magnitude of mind."
Milton.

5. Greatness, in reference to influence or effect; importance; as, an
affair of magnitude.
The magnitude of his designs. Bp. Horsley.
Apparent magnitude (Opt.), the angular breadth of an object viewed as
measured by the angle which it subtends at the eye of the observer; -
- called also apparent diameter.
 -- Magnitude of a star (Astron.), the rank of a star with respect to
brightness. About twenty very bright stars are said to be of first
magnitude, the stars of the sixth magnitude being just visible to the
naked eye. Telescopic stars are classified down to the twelfth
magnitude or lower. The scale of the magnitudes is quite arbitrary,
but by means of photometers, the classification has been made to
tenths of a magnitude.

MAGNOLIA
Mag*no"li*a, n. Etym: [NL. Named after Pierre Magnol, professor of
botany at Montpellier, France, in the 17th century.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of American and Asiatic trees, with aromatic bark and
large sweet-scented whitish or reddish flowers.

Note: Magnolia grandiflora has coriaceous shining leaves and very
fragrant blossoms. It is common from North Carolina to Florida and
Texas, and is one of the most magnificent trees of the American
forest. The sweet bay (M. glauca)is a small tree found sparingly as
far north as Cape Ann. Other American species are M. Umbrella, M.
macrophylla, M. Fraseri, M. acuminata, and M. cordata. M. conspicua
and M. purpurea are cultivated shrubs or trees from Eastern Asia. M.
Campbellii, of India, has rose-colored or crimson flowers. Magnolia
warbler (Zoöl.), a beautiful North American wood warbler (Dendroica
maculosa). The rump and under parts are bright yellow; the breast and
belly are spotted with black; the under tail coverts are white; the
crown is ash.

MAGNOLIACEOUS
Mag*no`li*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to a natural order (Magnoliaceæ) of trees of which
the magnolia, the tulip tree, and the star anise are examples.

MAGNUM
Mag"num, n. Etym: [Neut. sing. of L. magnus great.]

1. A large wine bottle.
They passed the magnum to one another freely. Sir W. Scott
.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A bone of the carpus at the base of the third metacarpal bone.

MAGOT
Mag"ot, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Barbary ape.

MAGOT-PIE
Mag"ot-pie`, n.

Defn: A magpie. [Obs.] Shak.

MAGPIE
Mag"pie, n. Etym: [OE. & Prov. E. magot pie, maggoty pie, fr. Mag,
Maggot, equiv. to Margaret, and fr. F. Marquerite, and common name of
the magpie. Marguerite is fr. L. margarita pearl, Gr. Pie magpie, and
cf. the analogous names Tomtit, and Jackdaw.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of the genus Pica and related
genera, allied to the jays, but having a long graduated tail.

Note: The common European magpie (Pica pica, or P. caudata) is a
black and white noisy and mischievous bird. It can be taught to
speak. The American magpie (P. Hudsonica) is very similar. The
yellow-belled magpie (P. Nuttalli) inhabits California. The blue
magpie (Cyanopolius Cooki) inhabits Spain. Other allied species are
found in Asia. The Tasmanian and Australian magpies are crow shrikes,
as the white magpie (Gymnorhina organicum), the black magpie
(Strepera fuliginosa), and the Australian magpie (Cracticus picatus).
Magpie lark (Zoöl.), a common Australian bird (Grallina picata),
conspicuously marked with black and white; -- called also little
magpie.
 -- Magpie moth (Zoöl.), a black and white European geometrid moth
(Abraxas grossulariata); the harlequin moth. Its larva feeds on
currant and gooseberry bushes.

MAGUARI
Ma`gua*ri", n. Etym: [From native name: cf. Pg. magoari.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American stork (Euxenara maguari), having a forked
tail.

MAGUEY
Mag"uey, n. Etym: [Sp. maguey, Mexican maguei and metl.] (Bot.)

Defn: The century plant, a species of Agave (A. Americana). See
Agave.

MAGYAR
Mag"yar, n. Etym: [Hung.]

1. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of the dominant people of Hungary, allied to the Finns; a
Hungarian.

2. The language of the Magyars.

MAHA
Ma"ha, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of baboon; the wanderoo.

MAHABARATA; MAHABHARATAM
Ma*ha*ba"ra*ta, Ma*ha*bha"ra*tam, n. Etym: [Skr. mahabharata.]

Defn: A celebrated epic poem of the Hindoos. It is of great length,
and is chiefly devoted to the history of a civil war between two
dynasties of ancient India.

MAHALED
Ma*ha"led, n.Etym: [Ar. mahled.]

Defn: (Bot.) A cherry tree (Prunus Mahaleb) of Southern Europe. The
wood is prized by cabinetmakers, the twigs are used for pipe stems,
the flowers and leaves yield a perfume, and from the fruit a violet
dye and a fermented liquor (like kirschwasser) are prepared.

MAHARAJAH
Ma*ha*ra"jah, n. Etym: [Skr. maharaja; mahat great + raja king.]

Defn: A sovereign prince in India; -- a title given also to other
persons of high rank.

MAHARIF
Ma`ha*rif", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An African antelope (Hippotragus Bakeri). Its face is striped
with black and white.

MAHARMAH
Ma*har"mah, n.

Defn: A muslin wrapper for the head and the lower part of the face,
worn by Turkish and Armenian women when they go abroad.

MAHATMA
Ma*hat"ma, n. [Skr. mahatman, lit., great-souled, wise.] (Theosophy)

Defn: One of a class of sages, or "adepts," reputed to have knowledge
and powers of a higher order than those of ordinary men. --
Ma*hat"ma*ism (#), n.

MAHDI
Mah"di, n. Etym: [Ar., guide, leader.]

Defn: Among Mohammedans, the last imam or leader of the faithful. The
Sunni, the largest sect of the Mohammedans, believe that he is yet to
appear.

Note: The title has been taken by several persons in countries where
Mohammedanism prevails, -- notably by Mohammad Ahmed, who overran the
Egyptian Sudan, and in 1885 captured Khartum, his soldiers killing
General Gordon, an Englishman, who was then the Egyptian governor of
the region.

MAHDIISM
Mah"di*ism, n.

Defn: See Mahdism.

MAHDISM
Mah"dism, n.

Defn: Belief in the coming of the Mahdi; fanatical devotion to the
cause of the Mahdi or a pretender to that title. -- Mah"dist (#), n.

Mahdism has proved the most shameful and terrible instrument of
bloodshed and oppression which the modern world has ever witnessed.
E. N. Bennett.

MAHL-STICK
Mahl"-stick`, n.

Defn: See Maul-stick.

MAHOE
Ma"hoe, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several malvaceous trees (species of Hibiscus,
Ochroma, etc.), and to their strong fibrous inner bark, which is used
for strings and cordage.

MAHOGANY
Ma*hog"a*ny, n. Etym: [From the South American name.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A large tree of the genus Swietenia (S. Mahogoni), found in
tropical America.

Note: Several other trees, with wood more or less like mahogany, are
called by this name; as, African mahogany (Khaya Senegalensis),
Australian mahogany (Eucalyptus marginatus), Bastard mahogany
(Batonia apetala of the West Indies), Indian mahogany (Cedrela Toona
of Bengal, and trees of the genera Soymida and Chukrassia), Madeira
mahogany (Persea Indica), Mountain mahogany, the black or cherry
birch (Betula lenta), also the several species of Cercocarpus of
California and the Rocky Mountains.

2. The wood of the Swietenia Mahogoni. It is of a reddish brown
color, beautifully veined, very hard, and susceptible of a fine
polish. It is used in the manufacture of furniture.

3. A table made of mahogany wood. [Colloq.] To be under the mahogany,
to be so drunk as to have fallen under the table. [Eng.] -- To put
one's legs under some one's mahogany, to dine with him. [Slang]

MAHOLI
Ma*ho"li, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South African lemur (Galago maholi), having very large ears.
[Written also moholi.]

MAHOMEDAN; MAHOMETAN
Ma*hom"ed*an, Ma*hom"et*an, n.

Defn: See Mohammedan.

MAHOMETANISM
Ma*hom"et*an*ism, n.

Defn: See Mohammedanism.

MAHOMETANIZE
Ma*hom"et*an*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mahometanized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mahometanizing.]

Defn: To convert to the religion of Mohammed; to Mohammedanize.

MAHOMETISM
Ma*hom"et*ism, n.

Defn: See Mohammedanism.

MAHOMETIST
Ma*hom"et*ist, n.

Defn: A Mohammedan. [R.]

MAHOMETRY
Ma*hom"et*ry, n.

Defn: Mohammedanism. [Obs.]

MAHONE
Ma*hone", n.

Defn: A large Turkish ship. Crabb.

MAHONIA
Ma*ho"ni*a, n. Etym: [Named after Bernard McMahon.] (Bot.)

Defn: The Oregon grape, a species of barberry (Berberis Aquifolium),
often cultivated for its hollylike foliage.

MAHON STOCK
Ma*hon" stock`. (Bot.)

Defn: An annual cruciferous plant with reddish purple or white
flowers (Malcolmia maritima). It is called in England Virginia stock,
but the plant comes from the Mediterranean.

MAHOOHOO
Ma*hoo"hoo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The African white two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus simus).

MAHORI
Ma"ho*ri, n. Etym: [Native name. Cf. Maori.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of the dark race inhabiting principally the islands of
Eastern Polynesia. Also used adjectively.

MAHOUND
Ma`hound, n.

Defn: A contemptuous name for Mohammed; hence, an evil spirit; a
devil. [Obs.]
Who's this, my mahound cousin Beau. & Fl.

MAHOUT
Ma*hout", n. Etym: [Hind. mahawat, Skr. mahamatra; mahat great +
matra measure.]

Defn: The keeper and driver of an elephant. [East Indies]

MAHOVO
Ma*ho"vo, n. (Mach.)

Defn: A device for saving power in stopping and starting a railroad
car, by means of a heavy fly wheel.

MAHRATI
Mah*rat"i, n.

Defn: The language of the Mahrattas; the language spoken in the
Deccan and Concan. [Written also Marathi.]

MAHRATTA
Mah*rat"ta, n. Etym: [Hind. Marhata, Marhatta, the name of a famous
Hindoo race, from the old Skr. name Maha-rashtra.]

Defn: One of a numerous people inhabiting the southwestern part of
India. Also, the language of the Mahrattas; Mahrati. It is closely
allied to Sanskrit.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Mahrattas. [Written also Maratha.]

MAHUMETAN; MAHUMETANISM
Ma*hu"met*an, Ma*hu"met*an*ism, n.

Defn: See Mohammedan, Mohammedanism.

MAHWA TREE
Mah"wa tree`. (Bot.)

Defn: An East Indian sapotaceous tree (Bassia latifolia, and also B.
butyracea), whose timber is used for wagon wheels, and the flowers
for food and in preparing an intoxicating drink. It is one of the
butter trees. The oil, known as mahwa and yallah, is obtained from
the kernels of the fruit.

MAIA
Ma"i*a, n. Etym: [From L. Maia, a goddess.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A genus of spider crabs, including the common European species
(Maia squinado).
(b) A beautiful American bombycid moth (Eucronia maia).

MAIAN
Ma"ian, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any spider crab of the genus Maia, or family Maiadæ.

MAID
Maid, n. Etym: [Shortened from maiden. . See Maiden.]

1. An unmarried woman; usually, a young unmarried woman; esp., a
girl; a virgin; a maiden.
Would I had died a maid, And never seen thee, never borne thee son.
Shak.
Can a maid forget her ornaments, or a bride her attire Yet my people
have forgotten me. Jer. ii. 32.

2. A man who has not had sexual intercourse. [Obs.]
Christ was a maid and shapen as a man. Chaucer.

3. A female servant.
Spinning amongst her maids. Shak.

Note: Maid is used either adjectively or in composition, signifying
female, as in maid child, maidservant.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The female of a ray or skate, esp. of the gray skate (Raia
batis), and of the thornback (R. clavata). [Prov. Eng.] Fair maid.
(Zoöl.) See under Fair, a.
 -- Maid of honor, a female attendant of a queen or royal princess; -
- usually of noble family, and having to perform only nominal or
honorary duties.
 -- Old maid. See under Old.

MAIDAN
Mai*dan", n. [Written also midan, meidan, mydan, etc.] [Hind. & Per.
maidan, fr. Ar. maidan.]

Defn: In various parts of Asia, an open space, as for military
exercises, or for a market place; an open grassy tract; an esplanade.

A gallop on the green maidan.
M. Crawford.

MAIDEN
Maid"en, n. Etym: [OE. maiden, meiden, AS. mægden, dim. of AS. mæg,
fr. mago son, servant; akin to G. magd, mädchen, maid, OHG. magad,
Icel. mögr son, Goth. magus boy, child, magaps virgin, and perh. to
Zend. magu youth. Cf. Maid a virgin.]

1. An unmarried woman; a girl or woman who has not experienced sexual
intercourse; a virgin; a maid.
She employed the residue of her life to repairing of highways,
building of bridges, and endowing of maidens. Carew.
A maiden of our century, yet most meek. Tennyson.

2. A female servant. [Obs.]

3. An instrument resembling the guillotine, formerly used in Scotland
for beheading criminals. Wharton.

4. A machine for washing linen.

MAIDEN
Maid"en, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a maiden, or to maidens; suitable to, or
characteristic of, a virgin; as, maiden innocence. "Amid the maiden
throng." Addison.
Have you no modesty, no maiden shame Shak.

2. Never having been married; not having had sexual intercourse;
virgin; -- said usually of the woman, but sometimes of the man; as, a
maiden aunt. "A surprising old maiden lady." Thackeray.

3. Fresh; innocent; unpolluted; pure; hitherto unused. "Maiden
flowers.' Shak.
Full bravely hast thou fleshed Thy maiden sword. Shak.

4. Used of a fortress, signifying that it has never been captured, or
violated. T. Warton. Macaulay. Maiden assize (Eng. Law), an assize
which there is no criminal prosecution; an assize which is unpolluted
with blood. It was usual, at such an assize, for the sheriff to
present the judge with a pair of white gloves. Smart.
 -- Maiden name, the surname of a woman before her marriage.
 -- Maiden pink. (Bot.) See under Pink.
 -- Maiden plum (Bot.), a West Indian tree (Comocladia integrifolia)
with purplish drupes. The sap of the tree is glutinous, and gives a
persistent black stain.
 -- Maiden speech, the first speech made by a person, esp. by a new
member in a public body.
 -- Maiden tower, the tower most capable of resisting an enemy.

MAIDEN
Maid"en, v. t.

Defn: To act coyly like a maiden; -- with it as an indefinite object.
For had I maiden'd it, as many use. Loath for to grant, but loather
to refuse. Bp. Hall.

MAIDENHAIR
Maid"en*hair`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A fern of the genus Adiantum (A. pedatum), having very slender
graceful stalks. It is common in the United States, and is sometimes
used in medicine. The name is also applied to other species of the
same genus, as to the Venus-hair. Maiden grass, the smaller quaking
grass.
 -- Maiden tree. See Ginkgo.

MAIDENHEAD
Maid"en*head, n. Etym: [See Maidenhood.]

1. The state of being a maiden; maidenhood; virginity. Shak.

2. The state of being unused or uncontaminated; freshness; purity.
[Obs.]
The maidenhead of their credit. Sir H. Wotton.

3. The hymen, or virginal membrane.

MAIDENHOOD
Maid"en*hood, n. Etym: [AS. mægdenhad. See Maid, and -hood.]

1. The state of being a maid or a virgin; virginity. Shak.

2. Newness; freshness; uncontaminated state.
The maidenhood Of thy fight. Shak.

MAIDENLIKE
Maid"en*like`, a.

Defn: Like a maiden; modest; coy.

MAIDENLINESS
Maid"en*li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being maidenly; the behavior that becomes a
maid; modesty; gentleness.

MAIDENLY
Maid"en*ly, a.

Defn: Like a maid; suiting a maid; maiden-like; gentle, modest,
reserved.
Must you be blushing . . . What a maidenly man-at-arms are you become
! Shak.

MAIDENLY
Maid"en*ly, adv.

Defn: In a maidenlike manner. "Maidenly demure." Skelton.

MAIDENSHIP
Maid"en*ship, n.

Defn: Maidenhood. [Obs.] Fuller.

MAIDHOOD
Maid"hood, n. Etym: [AS. mæg. See Maid, and -hood.]

Defn: Maidenhood. Shak.

MAIDMARIAN
Maid`ma"ri*an, n. Etym: [Maid + Marian, relating to Mary, or the
Virgin Mary.]

1. The lady of the May games; one of the characters in a morris
dance; a May queen. Afterward, a grotesque character personated in
sports and buffoonery by a man in woman's clothes.

2. A kind of dance. Sir W. Temple.

MAIDPALE
Maid"pale`, a.

Defn: Pale, like a sick girl. Shak.

MAIDSERVANT
Maid"serv`ant, n.

Defn: A female servant.

MAID'S HAIR
Maid's" hair`. (Bot.)

Defn: The yellow bedstraw (Galium verum).

MAIEUTIC; MAIEUTICAL
Ma*ieu"tic, Ma*ieu"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Serving to assist childbirth. Cudworth.

2. Fig. : Aiding, or tending to, the definition and interpretation of
thoughts or language. Payne.

MAIEUTICS
Ma*ieu"tics, n.

Defn: The art of giving birth (i. e., clearness and conviction) to
ideas, which are conceived as struggling for birth. Payne.

MAIGER
Mai"ger, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The meagre.

MAIGRE
Mai"gre, a. Etym: [F. See Meager.]

Defn: Belonging to a fast day or fast; as, a maigre day. Walpole.
Maigre food (R. C. Ch.), food allowed to be eaten on fast days.

MAIHEM
Mai"hem, n.

Defn: See Maim, and Mayhem.

MAIKEL
Mai*kel", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American carnivore of the genus Conepatus, allied to
the skunk, but larger, and having a longer snout. The tail is not
bushy.

MAIKONG
Mai*kong", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American wild dog (Canis cancrivorus); the crab-eating
dog.

MAIL
Mail, n.

Defn: A spot. [Obs.]

MAIL
Mail, n. Etym: [F. maille, OF. also maaille, LL. medalia. See Medal.]

1. A small piece of money; especially, an English silver half-penny
of the time of Henry V. [Obs.] [Written also maile, and maille.]

2. Rent; tribute. [Obs., except in certain compounds and phrases, as
blackmail, mails and duties, etc.] Mail and duties (Scots Law), the
rents of an estate, in whatever form paid.

MAIL
Mail, n. Etym: [OE. maile, maille, F. maille a ring of mail, mesh,
network, a coat of mail, fr. L. macula spot, a mesh of a net. Cf.
Macle, Macula, Mascle.]

1. A flexible fabric made of metal rings interlinked. It was used
especially for defensive armor. Chaucer. Chain mail, Coat of mail.
See under Chain, and Coat.

2. Hence generally, armor, or any defensive covering.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A contrivance of interlinked rings, for rubbing off the loose
hemp on lines and white cordage.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any hard protective covering of an animal, as the scales and
plates of reptiles, shell of a lobster, etc.
We . . . strip the lobster of his scarlet mail. Gay.

MAIL
Mail, v. t.

1. To arm with mail.

2. To pinion. [Obs.]

MAIL
Mail, n. Etym: [OE. male bag, OF. male, F. malle bag, trunk, mail,
OHG. malaha, malha, wallet; akin to D. maal, male; cf. Gael. & Ir.
mala, Gr.

1. A bag; a wallet. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. The bag or bags with the letters, papers, papers, or other matter
contained therein, conveyed under public authority from one post
office to another; the whole system of appliances used by government
in the conveyance and delivery of mail matter.
There is a mail come in to-day, with letters dated Hague. Tatler.

3. That which comes in the mail; letters, etc., received through the
post office.

4. A trunk, box, or bag, in which clothing, etc., may be carried.
[Obs.] Sir W. Scott. Mail bag, a bag in which mailed matter is
conveyed under public authority.
 -- Mail boat, a boat that carries the mail.
 -- Mail catcher, an iron rod, or other contrivance, attached to a
railroad car for catching a mail bag while the train is in motion.
 -- Mail guard, an officer whose duty it is to guard the public
mails. [Eng.] -- Mail train, a railroad train carrying the mail.

MAIL
Mail, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mailed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mailing.]

Defn: To deliver into the custody of the postoffice officials, or
place in a government letter box, for transmission by mail; to post;
as, to mail a letter. [U. S.]

Note: In the United States to mail and to post are both in common
use; as, to mail or post a letter. In England post is the commoner
usage.

MAILABLE
Mail"a*ble, a.

Defn: Admissible lawfully into the mail. [U.S.]

MAILCLAD
Mail"clad`, a.

Defn: Protected by a coat of mail; clad in armor. Sir W. Scott.

MAILED
Mailed, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Protected by an external coat, or covering, of scales or
plates.

MAILED
Mailed, a. Etym: [See 1st Mail.]

Defn: Spotted; speckled.

MAILING
Mail"ing, n. Etym: [Scot., fr. mail tribute, rent. See 2d Mail.]

Defn: A farm. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

MAIL-SHELL
Mail"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A chiton.

MAIM
Maim, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Maimed;p. pr. & vb. n. Maiming.] Etym: [OE.
maimen, OF. mahaignier, mehaignier, meshaignier, cf. It. magagnare,
LL. mahemiare, mahennare; perh. of Celtic origin; cf. Armor. mac'ha
to mutilate, mac'ha to crowd, press; or cf. OHG. mang to lack, perh.
akin to E. mangle to lacerate. Cf. Mayhem.]

1. To deprive of the use of a limb, so as to render a person on
fighting less able either to defend himself or to annoy his
adversary.
By the ancient law of England he that maimed any man whereby he lost
any part of his body, was sentenced to lose the like part.
Blackstone.

2. To mutilate; to cripple; to injure; to disable; to impair.
My late maimed limbs lack wonted might. Spenser.
You maimed the jurisdiction of all bishops. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To mutilate; mangle; cripple.

MAIM
Maim, n. [Written in law language maihem, and mayhem.] Etym: [OF.
mehaing. See Maim, v.]

1. The privation of the use of a limb or member of the body, by which
one is rendered less able to defend himself or to annoy his
adversary.

2. The privation of any necessary part; a crippling; mutilation;
injury; deprivation of something essential. See Mayhem.
Surely there is more cause to fear lest the want there of be a maim
than the use of it a blemish. Hooker.
A noble author esteems it to be a maim in history that the acts of
Parliament should not be recited. Hayward.

MAIMEDLY
Maim"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a maimed manner.

MAIMEDNESS
Maim"ed*ness, n.

Defn: State of being maimed. Bolton.

MAIN
Main, n. Etym: [F. main hand, L. manus. See Manual.]

1. A hand or match at dice. Prior. Thackeray.

2. A stake played for at dice. [Obs.] Shak.

3. The largest throw in a match at dice; a throw at dice within given
limits, as in the game of hazard.

4. A match at cockfighting. "My lord would ride twenty miles . . . to
see a main fought." Thackeray.

5. A main-hamper. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

MAIN
Main, n. Etym: [AS. mægen strength, power, force; akin to OHG. magan,
Icel. megin, and to E. may, v. May, v.]

1. Strength; force; might; violent effort. [Obs., except in certain
phrases.]
There were in this battle of most might and main. R. of Gl.
He 'gan advance, With huge force, and with importable main. Spenser.

2. The chief or principal part; the main or most important thing.
[Obs., except in special uses.]
Resolved to rest upon the title of Lancaster as the main, and to use
the other two . . . but as supporters. Bacon.

3. Specifically:
(a) The great sea, as distinguished from an arm, bay, etc. ; the high
sea; the ocean. "Struggling in the main." Dryden.
(b) The continent, as distinguished from an island; the mainland.
"Invaded the main of Spain." Bacon.
(c) principal duct or pipe, as distinguished from lesser ones; esp.
(Engin.), a principal pipe leading to or from a reservoir; as, a fire
main. Forcing main, the delivery pipe of a pump.
 -- For the main, or In the main, for the most part; in the greatest
part.
 -- With might and main, or With all one's might and main, with all
one's strength; with violent effort.
With might and main they chased the murderous fox. Dryden.

MAIN
Main, a. Etym: [From Main strength, possibly influenced by OF. maine,
magne, great, L. magnus. Cf. Magnate.]

1. Very or extremely strong. [Obs.]
That current with main fury ran. Daniel.

2. Vast; huge. [Obs.] "The main abyss." Milton.

3. Unqualified; absolute; entire; sheer. [Obs.] "It's a man untruth."
Sir W. Scott.

4. Principal; chief; first in size, rank, importance, etc.
Our main interest is to be happy as we can. Tillotson.

5. Important; necessary. [Obs.]
That which thou aright Believest so main to our success, I bring.
Milton.
By main force, by mere force or sheer force; by violent effort; as,
to subdue insurrection by main force.
That Maine which by main force Warwick did win. Shak.
-- By main strength, by sheer strength; as, to lift a heavy weight by
main strength.
 -- Main beam (Steam Engine), working beam.
 -- Main boom (Naut.), the boom which extends the foot of the
mainsail in a fore and aft vessel.
 -- Main brace. (a) (Mech.) The brace which resists the chief strain.
Cf. Counter brace. (b) (Naut.) The brace attached to the main yard.
 -- Main center (Steam Engine), a shaft upon which a working beam or
side lever swings.
 -- Main chance. See under Chance.
 -- Main couple (Arch.), the principal truss in a roof.
 -- Main deck (Naut.), the deck next below the spar deck; the
principal deck.
 -- Main keel (Naut.), the principal or true keel of a vessel, as
distinguished from the false keel.

Syn.
 -- Principal; chief; leading; cardinal; capital.

MAIN
Main, adv. Etym: [See Main, a.]

Defn: Very extremely; as, main heavy. "I'm main dry." Foote. [Obs. or
Low]

MAINE
Maine, n.

Defn: One of the New England States. Maine law, any law prohibiting
the manufacture and sale of intoxicating beverages, esp. one
resembling that enacted in the State of Maine.

MAIN-GAUCHE
Main`-gauche" (mâN`gosh"), n. Etym: [F., the left hand.] (Ancient
Armor)

Defn: The dagger held in the left hand, while the rapier is held in
the right; -- used to parry thrusts of the adversary's rapier.

MAIN-HAMPER
Main"-ham`per, n. Etym: [F. main hand (see Main a hand at dice) + E.
hamper.]

Defn: A hamper to be carried in the hand; a hand basket used in
carrying grapes to the press.

MAINLAND
Main"land`, n.

Defn: The continent; the principal land; -- opposed to island, or
peninsula. Dryden.
After the two wayfarers had crossed from the peninsula to the
mainland. Hawthorne.

MAINLY
Main"ly, adv. Etym: [From main strong. See Main strength.]

Defn: Very strongly; mightily; to a great degree. [Obs.] Bacon. Shak.

MAINLY
Main"ly, adv. Etym: [From main principal, chief.]

Defn: Principally; chiefly.

MAINMAST
Main"mast`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The principal mast in a ship or other vessel.

MAINOR
Main"or, n. Etym: [Anglo-Norm. meinoure, OF. manuevre. See Maneuver.]
(O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A thing stolen found on the person of the thief.

Note: A thief was said to be "taken with the mainor," when he was
taken with the thing stolen upon him, that is, in his hands. Wharton.
Bouvier.

MAINPERNABLE
Main"per*na*ble, a. Etym: [OF. main hand + pernable, for prenable,
that may be taken, pregnable. See Mainpernor.] (Law)

Defn: Capable of being admitted to give surety by mainpernors; able
to be mainprised.

MAINPERNOR
Main"per*nor, n. Etym: [OF. main hand + pernor, for preneor, a taker,
F. preneur, fr. prendre to take.] (Law)

Defn: A surety, under the old writ of mainprise, for a prisoner's
appearance in court at a day.

Note: Mainpernors differ from bail in that a man's bail may imprison
or surrender him before the stipulated day of appearance; mainpernors
can do neither; they are bound to produce him to answer all charges
whatsoever. Blackstone.

MAINPIN
Main"pin, n. (Vehicles)

Defn: A kingbolt.

MAINPRISE
Main"prise, n. Etym: [F. main hand + prise a taking, fr. prendre, p.
p. pris to take, fr. L. prehendere, prehensum.] (Law)
(a) A writ directed to the sheriff, commanding him to take sureties,
called mainpernors, for the prisoner's appearance, and to let him go
at large. This writ is now obsolete. Wharton.
(b) Deliverance of a prisoner on security for his appearance at a
day.

MAINPRISE
Main"prise, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mainprised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mainprising.] (Law)

Defn: To suffer to go at large, on his finding sureties, or
mainpernors, for his appearance at a day; -- said of a prisoner.

MAINS
Mains, n. Etym: [Scot. See Manse.]

Defn: The farm attached to a mansion house. [Scot.]

MAINSAIL
Main"sail`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The principal sail in a ship or other vessel.
[They] hoised up the mainsail to the wind. Acts xxvii. 40.

Note: The mainsail of a ship is extended upon a yard attached to the
mainmast, and that of a sloop or schooner upon the boom.

MAINSHEET
Main"sheet`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: One of the ropes by which the mainsail is hauled aft and
trimmed.

MAINSPRING
Main"spring`, n.

Defn: The principal or most important spring in a piece of mechanism,
especially the moving spring of a watch or clock or the spring in a
gunlock which impels the hammer. Hence: The chief or most powerful
motive; the efficient cause of action.

MAINSTAY
Main"stay`, n.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: The stay extending from the foot of the foremast to the
maintop.

2. Main support; principal dependence.
The great mainstay of the Church. Buckle.

MAINSWEAR
Main"swear`, v. i. Etym: [AS. manswerian to forswear; man sin, crime
+ swerian to swear.]

Defn: To swear falsely. [Obs.] Blount.

MAINTAIN
Main*tain, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Maintained; p. pr. & vb. n.
Maintaining.] Etym: [OE. maintenen, F. maintenir, properly, to hold
by the hand; main hand (L. manus) + F. tenir to hold (L.tenere). See
Manual, and Tenable.]

1. To hold or keep in any particular state or condition; to support;
to sustain; to uphold; to keep up; not to suffer to fail or decline;
as, to maintain a certain degree of heat in a furnace; to maintain a
fence or a railroad; to maintain the digestive process or powers of
the stomach; to maintain the fertility of soil; to maintain present
reputation.

2. To keep possession of; to hold and defend; not to surrender or
relinquish.
God values . . . every one as he maintains his post. Grew.

3. To continue; not to suffer to cease or fail.
Maintain talk with the duke. Shak.

4. To bear the expense of; to support; to keep up; to supply with
what is needed.
Glad, by his labor, to maintain his life. Stirling.
What maintains one vice would bring up two children. Franklin.

5. To affirm; to support or defend by argument.
It is hard to maintain the truth, but much harder to be maintained by
it. South.

Syn.
 -- To assert; vindicate; allege. See Assert.

MAINTAINABLE
Main*tain"a*ble, a.

Defn: That maybe maintained.

MAINTAINER
Main*tain"er, n.

Defn: One who maintains.

MAINTAINOR
Main*tain"or, n. Etym: [OF. mainteneor, F. mainteneur.] (Crim. Law)

Defn: One who, not being interested, maintains a cause depending
between others, by furnishing money, etc., to either party. Bouvier.
Wharton.

MAINTENANCE
Main"te*nance, n. Etym: [OF. maintenance. See Maintain.]

1. The act of maintaining; sustenance; support; defense; vindication.
Whatsoever is granted to the church for God's honor and the
maintenance of his service, is granted to God. South.

2. That which maintains or supports; means of sustenance; supply of
necessaries and conveniences.
Those of better fortune not making learning their maintenance. Swift.

3. (Crim. Law)

Defn: An officious or unlawful intermeddling in a cause depending
between others, by assisting either party with money or means to
carry it on. See Champerty. Wharton. Cap of maintenance. See under
Cap.

MAINTOP
Main"top`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The platform about the head of the mainmast in square-rigged
vessels.

MAIN YARD
Main" yard`. (Naut.)

Defn: The yard on which the mainsail is extended, supported by the
mainmast.

MAIOID
Mai"oid, a. Etym: [Maia + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the genus Maia, or family Maiadeæ.

MAISTER
Mais"ter, n.

Defn: Master. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

MAISTER
Mais"ter, a.

Defn: Principal; chief. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MAISTRE; MAISTRIE; MAISTRY
Mais"tre, Mais"trie, Mais"try, n.

Defn: Mastery; superiority; art. See Mastery. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MAISTRESS
Mais"tress, n.

Defn: Mistress. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MAITHES
Mai"thes, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Maghet.

MAIZE
Maize, n. Etym: [Sp. maiz. fr. mahiz or mahis, i (Bot.)

Defn: A large species of American grass of the genus Zea (Z. Mays),
widely cultivated as a forage and food plant; Indian corn. Also, its
seed, growing on cobs, and used as food for men animals. Maize eater
(Zoöl.), a South American bird of the genus Pseudoleistes, allied to
the troupials.
 -- Maize yellow, a delicate pale yellow.

MAJESTATIC; MAJESTATAL
Maj`es*tat"ic, Maj`es*tat"*al, a.

Defn: Majestic. [Obs.] E. Pocock. Dr. J. Scott.

MAJESTIC
Ma*jes"tic, a. Etym: [From Majesty.]

Defn: Possessing or exhibiting majesty; of august dignity,
stateliness, or imposing grandeur; lofty; noble; grand. "The majestic
world." Shak. "Tethys'grave majestic pace." Milton.
The least portions must be of the epic kind; all must be grave,
majestic, and sublime. Dryden
.

Syn.
 -- August; splendid; grand; sublime; magnificent; imperial; regal;
pompous; stately; lofty; dignified; elevated.

MAJESTICAL
Ma*jes"tic*al, a.

Defn: Majestic. Cowley.
An older architecture, greater, cunninger, more majestical. M.
Arnold.
-- Ma*jes"tic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Ma*jes"tic*al*ness, n.

MAJESTICNESS
Ma*jes"tic*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being majestic. Oldenburg.

MAJESTY
Maj"es*ty, n.; pl. Majesties. Etym: [OE. magestee, F. majesté, L.
majestas, fr. an old compar. of magnus great. See Major, Master.]

Defn: The dignity and authority of sovereign power; quality or state
which inspires awe or reverence; grandeur; exalted dignity, whether
proceeding from rank, character, or bearing; imposing loftiness;
stateliness; -- usually applied to the rank and dignity of
sovereigns.
The Lord reigneth; he is clothed with majesty. Ps. xciii. 1.
No sovereign has ever represented the majesty of great state with
more dignity and grace. Macaulay.

2. Hence, used with the possessive pronoun, the title of an emperor,
king or queen; -- in this sense taking a plural; as, their majesties
attended the concert.
In all the public writs which he [Emperor Charles V.] now issued as
King of Spain, he assumed the title of Majesty, and required it from
his subjects as a mark of respect. Before that time all the monarchs
of Europe were satisfied with the appellation of Highness or Grace.
Robertson.

3. Dignity; elevation of manner or style. Dryden.

MAJOLICA
Ma*jol"i*ca, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A kind of pottery, with opaque glazing and showy, which reached
its greatest perfection in Italy in the 16th century.

Note: The term is said to be derived from Majorca, which was an early
seat of this manufacture. Heyse.

MAJOR
Ma"jor, Etym: [L. major, compar. of magnus great: cf. F. majeur. Cf.
Master, Mayor, Magnitude, More, a.]

1. Greater in number, quantity, or extent; as, the major part of the
assembly; the major part of the revenue; the major part of the
territory.

2. Of greater dignity; more important. Shak.

3. Of full legal age. [Obs.]

4. (Mus.)

Defn: Greater by a semitone, either in interval or in difference of
pitch from another tone. Major axis (Geom.), the greater axis. See
Focus, n., 2.
 -- Major key (Mus.), a key in which one and two, two and three, four
and five, five and six and seven, make major seconds, and three and
four, and seven and eight, make minor seconds.
 -- Major offense (Law), an offense of a greater degree which
contains a lesser offense, as murder and robbery include assault.
 -- Major premise (Logic), that premise of a syllogism which contains
the major term.
 -- Major scale (Mus.), the natural diatonic scale, which has
semitones between the third and fourth, and seventh and fourth, and
seventh and eighth degrees; the scale of the major mode, of which the
third is major. See Scale, and Diatonic.
 -- Major second (Mus.), a second between whose tones is a difference
in pitch of a step.
 -- Major sixth (Mus.), a sixth of four steps and a half step. In
major keys the third and sixth from the key tone are major. Major
keys and intervals, as distinguished from minors, are more cheerful.
 -- Major term (Logic), that term of a syllogism which forms the
predicate of the conclusion.
 -- Major third (Mus.), a third of two steps.

MAJOR
Ma"jor, n. Etym: [F. major. See Major, a.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: An officer next in rank above a captain and next below a
lieutenant colonel; the lowest field officer.

2. (Law)

Defn: A person of full age.

3. (Logic)

Defn: That premise which contains the major term. It its the first
proposition of a regular syllogism; as: No unholy person is qualified
for happiness in heaven [the major]. Every man in his natural state
is unholy [minor]. Therefore, no man in his natural state is
qualified for happiness in heaven [conclusion or inference].

Note: In hypothetical syllogisms, the hypothetical premise is called
the major.

4. Etym: [LL. See Major.]

Defn: A mayor. [Obs.] Bacon.

MAJORAT
Ma`jo`rat", n. Etym: [F. majorat, LL. majoratus. See Major, a., and
cf. Majorate.]

1. The right of succession to property according to age; -- so termed
in some of the countries of continental Europe.

2. (French Law)

Defn: Property, landed or funded, so attached to a title of honor as
to descend with it.

MAJORATE
Ma"jor*ate, n.

Defn: The office or rank of a major.

MAJORATE
Ma"jor*ate, v. t. Etym: [LL. majorare to augment. See Major, a.]

Defn: To augment; to increase. [Obs.] Howell.

MAJORATION
Ma`jor*a"tion, n.

Defn: Increase; enlargement. [Obs.] Bacon.

MAJORCAN
Ma*jor"can, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Majorca.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Majorca.

MAJOR-DOMO
Ma`jor-do"mo, n. Etym: [Sp. mayordomo, or It. maggiordomo; both fr.
LL. majordomus; L. major greater + domus house.]

Defn: A man who has authority to act, within certain limits, as
master of the house; a steward; also, a chief minister or officer.

MAJOR GENERAL
Ma"jor gen"er*al

Defn: . An officer of the army holding a rank next above that of
brigadier general and next below that of lieutenant general, and who
usually commands a division or a corps.

MAJORITY
Ma*jor"i*ty, n.; pl. Majorities. Etym: [F. majorité. See Major.]

1. The quality or condition of being major or greater; superiority.
Specifically:
(a) The military rank of a major.
(b) The condition of being of full age, or authorized by law to
manage one's own affairs.

2. The greater number; more than half; as, a majority of mankind; a
majority of the votes cast.

3. Etym: [Cf. L. majores.]

Defn: Ancestors; ancestry. [Obs.]

4. The amount or number by which one aggregate exceeds all other
aggregates with which it is contrasted; especially, the number by
which the votes for a successful candidate exceed those for all other
candidates; as, he is elected by a majority of five hundred votes.
See Plurality. To go over to, or To join, the majority, to die.

MAJORSHIP
Ma"jor*ship, n.

Defn: The office of major.

MAJOUN
Maj"oun, n.

Defn: See Madjoun.

MAJUSCULAE
Ma*jus"cu*læ, n. pl. Etym: [L., fem. pl. fr. majusculus somewhat
greater or great, dim. of major, majus. See Major.] (Palæography)

Defn: Capital letters, as found in manuscripts of the sixth century
and earlier.

MAJUSCULE
Ma*jus"cule, n. Etym: [Cf. F. majuscule. See Majusculæ.]

Defn: A capital letter; especially, one used in ancient manuscripts.
See Majusculæ. Majuscule writing, writing composed wholly of capital
letters, especially the style which prevailed in Europe from the
third to the sixth century.

MAKABLE
Mak"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being made.

MAKARON
Mak"a*ron, n.

Defn: See Macaroon, 2. [Obs.]

MAKE
Make, n. Etym: [AS. maca, gemaca. See Match.]

Defn: A companion; a mate; often, a husband or a wife. [Obs.]
For in this world no woman is Worthy to be my make. Chaucer.

MAKE
Make, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Made; p. pr. & vb. n. Making.] Etym: [OE.
maken, makien, AS. macian; akin to OS. mak, OFries. makia, D. maken,
G. machen, OHG. mahh to join, fit, prepare, make, Dan. mage. Cf.
Match an equal.]

1. To cause to exist; to bring into being; to form; to produce; to
frame; to fashion; to create. Hence, in various specific uses or
applications:
(a) To form of materials; to cause to exist in a certain form; to
construct; to fabricate.
He . . . fashioned it with a graving tool, after he had made it a
molten calf. Ex. xxxii. 4.

(b) To produce, as something artificial, unnatural, or false; --
often with up; as, to make up a story.
And Art, with her contending, doth aspire To excel the natural with
made delights. Spenser.

(c) To bring about; to bring forward; to be the cause or agent of; to
effect, do, perform, or execute; -- often used with a noun to form a
phrase equivalent to the simple verb that corresponds to such noun;
as, to make complaint, for to complain; to make record of, for to
record; to make abode, for to abide, etc.
Call for Samson, that he may make us sport. Judg. xvi. 25.
Wealth maketh many friends. Prov. xix. 4.
I will neither plead my age nor sickness in excuse of the faults
which I have made. Dryden.

(d) To execute with the requisite formalities; as, to make a bill,
note, will, deed, etc.
(e) To gain, as the result of one's efforts; to get, as profit; to
make acquisition of; to have accrue or happen to one; as, to make a
large profit; to make an error; to make a loss; to make money.
He accuseth Neptune unjustly who makes shipwreck a second time.
Bacon.

(f) To find, as the result of calculation or computation; to
ascertain by enumeration; to find the number or amount of, by
reckoning, weighing, measurement, and the like; as, he made the
distance of; to travel over; as, the ship makes ten knots an hour; he
made the distance in one day.
(h) To put a desired or desirable condition; to cause to thrive.
Who makes or ruins with a smile or frown. Dryden.

2. To cause to be or become; to put into a given state verb, or
adjective; to constitute; as, to make known; to make public; to make
fast.
Who made thee a prince and a judge over us Ex. ii. 14.
See, I have made thee a god to Pharaoh. Ex. vii. 1.

Note: When used reflexively with an adjective, the reflexive pronoun
is often omitted; as, to make merry; to make bold; to make free, etc.

3. To cause to appear to be; to constitute subjectively; to esteem,
suppose, or represent.
He is not that goose and ass that Valla would make him. Baker.

4. To require; to constrain; to compel; to force; to cause; to
occasion; -- followed by a noun or pronoun and infinitive.

Note: In the active voice the to of the infinitive is usually
omitted.
I will make them hear my words. Deut. iv. 10.
They should be made to rise at their early hour. Locke.

5. To become; to be, or to be capable of being, changed or fashioned
into; to do the part or office of; to furnish the material for; as,
he will make a good musician; sweet cider makes sour vinegar; wool
makes warm clothing.
And old cloak makes a new jerkin. Shak.

6. To compose, as parts, ingredients, or materials; to constitute; to
form; to amount to.
The heaven, the air, the earth, and boundless sea, Make but one
temple for the Deity. Waller.

7. To be engaged or concerned in. [Obs.]
Gomez, what makest thou here, with a whole brotherhood of city
bailiffs Dryden.

8. To reach; to attain; to arrive at or in sight of. "And make the
Libyan shores." Dryden.
They that sail in the middle can make no land of either side. Sir T.
Browne.
To make a bed, to prepare a bed for being slept on, or to put it in
order.
 -- To make a card (Card Playing), to take a trick with it.
 -- To make account. See under Account, n.
 -- To make account of, to esteem; to regard.
 -- To make away. (a) To put out of the way; to kill; to destroy.
[Obs.]
If a child were crooked or deformed in body or mind, they made him
away. Burton.
(b) To alienate; to transfer; to make over. [Obs.] Waller.
 -- To make believe, to pretend; to feign; to simulate.
 -- To make bold, to take the liberty; to venture.
 -- To make the cards (Card Playing), to shuffle the pack.
 -- To make choice of, to take by way of preference; to choose.
 -- To make danger, to make experiment. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
 -- To make default (Law), to fail to appear or answer.
 -- To make the doors, to shut the door. [Obs.]
Make the doors upon a woman's wit, and it will out at the casement.
Shak.
- To make free with. See under Free, a.
 -- To make good. See under Good.
 -- To make head, to make headway.
 -- To make light of. See under Light, a.
 -- To make little of. (a) To belittle. (b) To accomplish easily.
 -- To make love to. See under Love, n.
 -- To make meat, to cure meat in the open air. [Colloq. Western U.
S.] -- To make merry, to feast; to be joyful or jovial.
 -- To make much of, to treat with much consideration,, attention, or
fondness; to value highly.
 -- To make no bones. See under Bone, n.
 -- To make no difference, to have no weight or influence; to be a
matter of indifference.
 -- To make no doubt, to have no doubt.
 -- To make no matter, to have no weight or importance; to make no
difference.
 -- To make oath (Law), to swear, as to the truth of something, in a
prescribed form of law.
 -- To make of. (a) To understand or think concerning; as, not to
know what to make of the news. (b) To pay attention to; to cherish;
to esteem; to account. "Makes she no more of me than of a slave."
Dryden.
 -- To make one's law (Old Law), to adduce proof to clear one's self
of a charge.
 -- To make out. (a) To find out; to discover; to decipher; as, to
make out the meaning of a letter. (b) To prove; to establish; as, the
plaintiff was unable to make out his case. (c) To make complete or
exact; as, he was not able to make out the money.
 -- To make over, to transfer the title of; to convey; to alienate;
as, he made over his estate in trust or in fee.
 -- To make sail. (Naut.) (a) To increase the quantity of sail
already extended. (b) To set sail.
 -- To make shift, to manage by expedients; as, they made shift to do
without it. [Colloq.].
 -- To make sternway, to move with the stern foremost; to go or drift
backward.
 -- To make strange, to act in an unfriendly manner or as if
surprised; to treat as strange; as, to make strange of a request or
suggestion.
 -- To make suit to, to endeavor to gain the favor of; to court.
 -- To make sure. See under Sure.
 -- To make up. (a) To collect into a sum or mass; as, to make up the
amount of rent; to make up a bundle or package. (b) To reconcile; to
compose; as, to make up a difference or quarrel. (c) To supply what
is wanting in; to complete; as, a dollar is wanted to make up the
stipulated sum. (d) To compose, as from ingredients or parts; to
shape, prepare, or fabricate; as, to make up a mass into pills; to
make up a story.
He was all made up of love and charms! Addison.
(e) To compensate; to make good; as, to make up a loss. (f) To
adjust, or to arrange for settlement; as, to make up accounts. (g) To
dress and paint for a part, as an actor; as, he was well made up.
 -- To make up a face, to distort the face as an expression of pain
or derision.
 -- To make up one's mind, to reach a mental determination; to
resolve.
 -- To make water. (a) (Naut.) To leak. (b) To urinate.
 -- To make way, or To make one's way. (a) To make progress; to
advance. (b) To open a passage; to clear the way.
 -- To make words, to multiply words.

MAKE
Make, v. i.

1. To act in a certain manner; to have to do; to manage; to
interfere; to be active; -- often in the phrase to meddle or make.
[Obs.]
A scurvy, jack-a-nape priest to meddle or make. Shak.

2. To proceed; to tend; to move; to go; as, he made toward home; the
tiger made at the sportsmen.

Note: Formerly, authors used to make on, to make forth, to make
about; but these phrases are obsolete. We now say, to make at, to
make away, to make for, to make off, to make toward, etc.

3. To tend; to contribute; to have effect; -- with for or against;
as, it makes for his advantage. M. Arnold.
Follow after the things which make for peace. Rom. xiv. 19.
Considerations infinite Do make against it. Shak.

4. To increase; to augment; to accrue.

5. To compose verses; to write poetry; to versify. [Archaic] Chaucer.
Tennyson.
To solace him some time, as I do when I make. P. Plowman.
To make as if, or To make as though, to pretend that; to make show
that; to make believe (see under Make, v. t.).
Joshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before them, and
fled. Josh. viii. 15.
My lord of London maketh as though he were greatly displeased with
me. Latimer.
-- To make at, to go toward hastily, or in a hostile manner; to
attack.
 -- To make away with. (a) To carry off. (b) To transfer or alienate;
hence, to spend; to dissipate. (c) To kill; to destroy.
 -- To make off, to go away suddenly.
 -- To make out, to succeed; to be able at last; to make shift; as,
he made out to reconcile the contending parties.
 -- To make up, to become reconciled or friendly.
 -- To make up for, to compensate for; to supply an equivalent for.
 -- To make up to. (a) To approach; as, a suspicious boat made up to
us. (b) To pay addresses to; to make love to.
 -- To make up with, to become reconciled to. [Colloq.] -- To make
with, to concur or agree with. Hooker.

MAKE
Make, n.

Defn: Structure, texture, constitution of parts; construction; shape;
form.
It our perfection of so frail a make As every plot can undermine and
shake Dryden.
On the make,bent upon making great profits; greedy of gain. [Low, U.
S.]

MAKE AND BREAK
Make and break. (Elec.)

Defn: Any apparatus for making and breaking an electric circuit; a
circuit breaker.

MAKEBATE
Make"bate`, n. Etym: [Make, v. + bate a quarrel.]

Defn: One who excites contentions and quarrels. [Obs.]

MAKE-BELIEF
Make"-be*lief`, n.

Defn: A feigning to believe; make believe. J. H. Newman.

MAKE-BELIEVE
Make"-be*lieve`, n.

Defn: A feigning to believe, as in the play of children; a mere
pretense; a fiction; an invention. "Childlike make-believe." Tylor.
To forswear self-delusion and make-believe. M. Arnold.

MAKE-BELIEVE
Make"-be*lieve`, a.

Defn: Feigned; insincere. "Make-believe reverence." G. Eliot.

MAKED
Mak"ed, obs. p. p. of Make.

Defn: Made. Chaucer.

MAKE-GAME
Make"-game`, n.

Defn: An object of ridicule; a butt. Godwin.

MAKELESS
Make"less, a. Etym: [See 1st Make, and cf. Matchless, Mateless.]

1. Matchless. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Without a mate. Shak.

MAKE-PEACE
Make"-peace` (-pes`) n.

Defn: A peacemaker. [R.] Shak.

MAKER
Mak"er (mak"er) n.,

1. One who makes, forms, or molds; a manufacturer; specifically, the
Creator.
The universal Maker we may praise. Milton.

2. (Law)

Defn: The person who makes a promissory note.

3. One who writes verses; a poet. [Obs.]

Note: "The Greeks named the poet poihth`s, which name, as the most
excellent, hath gone through other languages. It cometh of this word
poiei^n, make; wherein, I know not whether by luck or wisdom, we
Englishmen have met well the Greeks in calling him a maker." Sir P.
Sidney.

MAKESHIFT
Make"shift`, n.

Defn: That with which one makes shift; a temporary expedient. James
Mill.
I am not a model clergyman, only a decent makeshift. G. Eliot.

MAKE-UP
Make"-up`, n.

Defn: The way in which the parts of anything are put together; often,
the way in which an actor is dressed, painted, etc., in personating a
character.
The unthinking masses are necessarily teleological in their mental
make-up. L. F. Ward.

MAKEWEIGHT
Make"weight` (, n.

Defn: That which is thrown into a scale to make weight; something of
little account added to supply a deficiency or fill a gap.

MAKI
Ma"ki, n. Etym: [F., from native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lemur. See Lemur.

MAKING
Mak"ing, n.

1. The act of one who makes; workmanship; fabrication; construction;
as, this is cloth of your own making; the making of peace or war was
in his power.

2. Composition, or structure.

3. a poem.[Obs.] Sir J. Davies.

4. That which establishes or places in a desirable state or
condition; the material of which something may be made; as, early
misfortune was the making of him.

5. External appearance; from. [Obs.] Shak.

MAKING-IRON
Mak"ing-i`ron, n.

Defn: A tool somewhat like a chisel with a groove in it, used by
calkers of ships to finish the seams after the oakum has been driven
in.

MAKING-UP
Mak"ing-up`, n.

1. The act of bringing spirits to a certain degree of strength,
called proof.

2. The act of becoming reconciled or friendly.

MAL-
Mal-

Defn: . A prefix in composition denoting ill,or evil, F. male, adv.,
fr. malus, bad, ill. In some words it has the form male-, as in
malediction, malevolent. See Malice.

Note: The formmale- is chiefly used in cases where the c, either
alone or with other letters, is pronounced as a separate syllable, as
in malediction, malefactor, maleficent, etc. Where this is not the
case, as in malfeasance or male-feasance, malformation or male-
formation, etc., as also where the word to which it is prefixed
commences with a vowel, as in maladministration, etc., the form malis
to be preferred, and is the one commonly employed.

MALA
Ma"la, n.; pl. of Malum. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Evils; wrongs; offenses against right and law. Mala in se Etym:
[L.] (Law), offenses which are such from their own nature, at common
law, irrespective of statute.
 -- Mala prohibita Etym: [L.] (Law), offenses prohibited by statute,
as distinguished from mala in se, which are offenses at common law.

MALABAR
Mal"a*bar`, n.

Defn: A region in the western part of the Peninsula of India, between
the mountains and the sea. Malabar nut (Bot.), the seed of an East
Indian acanthaceous shrub, the Adhatoda Vasica, sometimes used
medicinally.

MALACATUNE
Mal`a*ca*tune", n.

Defn: See Melocoton.

MALACCA
Ma*lac"ca, n.

Defn: A town and district upon the seacoast of the Malay Peninsula.
Malacca cane (Bot.), a cane obtained from a species of palm of the
genus Calamus (C. Scipionum), and of a brown color, often mottled.
The plant is a native of Cochin China, Sumatra, and Malays.

MALACHITE
Mal"a*chite, n. Etym: [Fr. Gr. malachite. Cf. Mallow.] (Min.)

Defn: Native hydrous carbonate of copper, usually occurring in green
mammillary masses with concentric fibrous structure.

Note: Green malachite, or malachite proper, admits of a high polish,
and is sometimes used for ornamental work. Blue malachite, or
azurite, is a related species of a deep blue color. Malachite green.
See Emerald green, under Green, n.

MALACISSANT
Mal`a*cis"sant, a. Etym: [See Malacissation.]

Defn: Softening; relaxing. [Obs.]

MALACISSATION
Mal`a*cis*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. malacissare to make soft, Gr.

Defn: The act of making soft or supple. [Obs.] Bacon.

MALACOBDELLA
Mal`a*cob*del"la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of nemertean worms, parasitic in the gill cavity of
clams and other bivalves. They have a large posterior sucker, like
that of a leech. See Illust. of Bdellomorpha.

MALACODERM
Mal"a*co*derm, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a tribe of beetles (Malacodermata), with a soft and
flexible body, as the fireflies.

MALACOLITE
Mal"a*co*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of pyroxene.

MALACOLOGIST
Mal`a*col"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in the science of malacology.

MALACOLOGY
Mal`a*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. malacologie.]

Defn: The science which relates to the structure and habits of
mollusks.

MALACOPODA
Mal`a*cop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of air-breathing Arthropoda; -- called also
Protracheata, and Onychophora.

Note: They somewhat resemble myriapods, and have from seventeen to
thirty-three pairs of short, imperfectly jointed legs, two pairs of
simple jaws, and a pair of antennæ. The trancheæ are connected with
numerous spiracles scattered over the surface of the body. Peripatus
is the only known genus. See Peripatus.

MALACOPTERYGIAN
Mal`a*cop`ter*yg"i*an, n. Etym: [Cf. F. malacoptérygien.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Malacopterygii.

MALACOPTERYGII
Mal`a*cop`te*ryg"i*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of fishes in which the fin rays, except the anterior
ray of the pectoral and dorsal fins, are closely jointed, and not
spiny. It includes the carp, pike, salmon, shad, etc. Called also
Malacopteri.

MALACOPTERYGIOUS
Mal`a*cop`ter*yg"i*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Malacopterygii.

MALACOSTEON
Mal`a*cos"te*on, n. Etym: [NL., Gr. fr. (Med.)

Defn: A peculiar disease of the bones, in consequence of which they
become softened and capable of being bent without breaking.

MALACOSTOMOUS
Mal`a*cos"to*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having soft jaws without teeth, as certain fishes.

MALACOSTRACA
Mal`a*cos"tra*ca, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A subclass of Crustacea, including Arthrostraca and
Thoracostraca, or all those higher than the Entomostraca.

MALACOSTRACAN
Mal`a*cos"tra*can, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Malacostraca.

MALACOSTRACOLOGY
Mal`a*cos`tra*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Malacostracan + -logy.]

Defn: That branch of zoölogical science which relates to the
crustaceans; -- called also carcinology.

MALACOSTRACOUS
Mal`a*cos"tra*cous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Malacostraca.

MALACOTOON
Mal`a*co*toon", n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Melocoton.

MALACOZOA
Mal`a*co*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive group of Invertebrata, including the Mollusca,
Brachiopoda, and Bryozoa. Called also Malacozoaria.

MALACOZOIC
Mal`a*co*zo"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Malacozoa.

MALADDRESS
Mal`ad*dress", n. Etym: [Mal- + address.]

Defn: Bad address; an awkward, tactless, or offensive way of
accosting one or talking with one. W. D. Howells.

MALADJUSTMENT
Mal`ad*just"ment, n. Etym: [Mal- + adjustment.]

Defn: A bad adjustment.

MALADMINISTRATION
Mal`ad*min`is*tra"tion, n. Etym: [Mal- + administration.]

Defn: Bad administration; bad management of any business, especially
of public affairs. [Written also maleadministration.]

MALADROIT
Mal`a*droit", a. Etym: [F. See Malice, and Adroit.]

Defn: Of a quality opposed to adroitness; clumsy; awkward;
unskillful.
 -- Mal"a*droit`ly, adv.
 -- Mal`a*droit"ness, n.

MALADY
Mal"a*dy, n.; pl. Maladies. Etym: [F. maladie, fr. malade ill, sick,
OF. also, malabde, fr. L. male habitus, i. e., ill-kept, not in good
condition. See Malice, and Habit.]

1. Any disease of the human body; a distemper, disorder, or
indisposition, proceeding from impaired, defective, or morbid organic
functions; especially, a lingering or deep-seated disorder.
The maladies of the body may prove medicines to the mind.
Buckminster.

2. A moral or mental defect or disorder.
Love's a malady without a cure. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Disorder; distemper; sickness; ailment; disease; illness. See
Disease.

MALAGA
Mal"a*ga, n.

Defn: A city and a province of Spain, on the Mediterranean. Hence,
Malaga grapes, Malaga raisins, Malaga wines.

MALAGASH
Mal`a*gash", n.

Defn: Same as Malagasy.

MALAGASY
Mal`a*gas"y, n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Madagascar; also (sing.), the language.

MALAISE
Ma`laise", n. Etym: [F., fr. mal ill + aise ease.] (Med.)

Defn: An indefinite feeling of uneasiness, or of being sick or ill at
ease.

MALAMATE
Ma*lam"ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of malamic acid.

MALAMBO
Ma*lam"bo, n. Etym: [Pg.]

Defn: A yellowish aromatic bark, used in medicine and perfumery, said
to be from the South American shrub Croton Malambo.

MALAMETHANE
Mal`am*eth"ane, n. Etym: [Malamic + ethane.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance forming the ethyl salt of malamic
acid.

MALAMIC
Ma*lam"ic, a. Etym: [Malic + amic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining an acid intermediate between malic acid and
malamide, and known only by its salts.

MALAMIDE
Ma*lam"ide, n. Etym: [Malic + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: The acid amide derived from malic acid, as a white crystalline
substance metameric with asparagine.

MALANDERS
Mal"an*ders, n. pl. Etym: [F. malandres, fr. L. malandria blisters or
pustules on the neck, especially in horses.] (Far.)

Defn: A scurfy eruption in the bend of the knee of the fore leg of a
horse. See Sallenders. [Written also mallenders.]

MALAPERT
Mal"a*pert, a. Etym: [OF. malapert unskillful, ill-taught, ill-bred;
mal ill + apert open, adroit, intelligent, L. apertus, p. p. of
aperire to open. See Malice, and Aperient.]

Defn: Bold; forward; impudent; saucy; pert. Shak.
 -- n.

Defn: A malapert person.
Are you growing malapert! Will you force me to make use of my
authority Dryden.
-- Mal"a*pert`ly, adv.
 -- Mal"a*pert`ness, n.

MALAPROPISM
Mal"a*prop*ism, n. Etym: [From Mrs. Malaprop, a character in
Sheridan's drama, " The Rivals," who makes amusing blunders in her
use of words. See Malapropos.]

Defn: A grotesque misuse of a word; a word so used.

MALAPROPOS
Mal*ap"ro*pos`, a. & adv. Etym: [F. mal à propos; mal evil + à propos
to the purpose.]

Defn: Unseasonable or unseasonably; unsuitable or unsuitably.

MALAPTERURUS
Mal*ap`te*ru"rus, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of African siluroid fishes, including the electric
catfishes. See Electric cat, under Electric.

MALAR
Ma"lar, a. Etym: [L. mala the cheek: cf. F. malaire.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the region of the cheek bone, or to the
malar bone; jugal.

MALAR
Ma"lar, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The cheek bone, which forms a part of the lower edge of the
orbit.

MALARIA
Ma*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [It., contr. fr. malaaria bad air. See Malice,
and Air.]

1. Air infected with some noxious substance capable of engendering
disease; esp., an unhealthy exhalation from certain soils, as marshy
or wet lands, producing fevers; miasma.

Note: The morbific agent in malaria is supposed by some to be a
vegetable microbe or its spores, and by others to be a very minute
animal blood parasite (an infusorian).

2. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition produced by exhalations from decaying
vegetable matter in contact with moisture, giving rise to fever and
ague and many other symptoms characterized by their tendency to recur
at definite and usually uniform intervals.

MALARIAL; MALARIAN; MALARIOUS
Ma*la"ri*al, Ma*la"ri*an, Ma*la"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining, to or infected by, malaria. Malarial fever
(Med.), a fever produced by malaria, and characterized by the
occurrence of chills, fever, and sweating in distinct paroxysms, At
intervals of definite and often uniform duration, in which these
symptoms are wholly absent (intermittent fever), or only partially so
(remittent fever); fever and ague; chills and fever.

MALARIA PARASITE
Malaria parasite.

Defn: Any of several minute protozoans of the genus Plasmodium (syn.
Hæmatozoön) which in their adult condition live in the tissues of
mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles (which see) and when transferred to
the blood of man, by the bite of the mosquito, produce malaria. The
young parasites, or sporozoites, enter the red blood corpuscles,
growing at their expense, undergoing sporulation, and finally
destroying the corpuscles, thus liberating in the blood plasma an
immense number of small spores called merozoites. An indefinite but
not ultimated number of such generations may follow, but if meanwhile
the host is bitten by a mosquito, the parasites develop into gametes
in the stomach of the insect. These conjugate, the zygote thus
produced divides, forming spores, and eventually sporozoites, which,
penetrating to the salivary glands of the mosquito, may be introduced
into a new host. The attacks of the disease coincide with the
dissolution of the corpuscles and liberation of the spores and
products of growth of the parasites into the blood plasma. Several
species of the parasite are distinguished, as P. vivax, producing
tertian malaria; P. malariæ, quartan malaria; and P. (subgenus
Laverania) falciferum, the malarial fever of summer and autumn common
in the tropics.

MALASHAGANAY
Ma`la*sha"ga*nay, n. Etym: [Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The fresh-water drumfish (Haploidonotus grunniens).

MALASSIMILATION
Mal`as*sim`i*la"tion, n. Etym: [Mal- + assimilation.] (Physiol.)
(a) Imperfect digestion of the several leading constituents of the
food.
(b) An imperfect elaboration by the tissues of the materials brought
to them by the blood.

MALATE
Ma"late, n. Etym: [L. malum apple: cf. F. malate. See Malic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of malic acid.

MALAX; MALAXATE
Ma"lax, Ma*lax"ate, v. t. Etym: [L. malaxare, malaxatum, cf. Gr.
malaxer.]

Defn: To soften by kneading or stirring with some thinner substance.
[R.]

MALAXATION
Mal`ax*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. malaxatio: cf. F. malaxation.]

Defn: The act of softening by mixing with a thinner substance; the
formation of ingredients into a mass for pills or plasters. [R.]

MALAXATOR
Mal"ax*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, malaxates; esp., a machine for
grinding, kneading, or stirring into a pasty or doughy mass. [R.]

MALAY
Ma*lay", n.

Defn: One of a race of a brown or copper complexion in the Malay
Peninsula and the western islands of the Indian Archipelago.

MALAY; MALAYAN
Ma*lay", Ma*lay"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Malays or their country.
 -- n.

Defn: The Malay language. Malay apple (Bot.), a myrtaceous tree
(Eugenia Malaccensis) common in India; also, its applelike fruit.

MALAYALAM
Ma"la*ya"lam, n.

Defn: The name given to one the cultivated Dravidian languages,
closely related to the Tamil. Yule.

MALBROUCK
Mal"brouck, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A West African arboreal monkey (Cercopithecus cynosurus).

MALCONFORMATION
Mal*con`for*ma"tion, n. Etym: [Mal- + conformation.]

Defn: Imperfect, disproportionate, or abnormal formation; ill form;
disproportion of parts.

MALCONTENT
Mal"con*tent`, a. Etym: [F., fr. mal ill + content. See Malice,
Content.]

Defn: discontented; uneasy; dissatisfied; especially, dissatisfied
with the government. [Written also malecontent.]
The famous malcontent earl of Leicester. Milner.

MALCONTENT
Mal"con*tent`, n. Etym: [F. malcontent.]

Defn: One who discontented; especially, a discontented subject of a
government; one who express his discontent by words or overt acts.
Spenser. Berkeley.

MALCONTENTED
Mal`con*tent"ed, a.

Defn: Malcontent.
 -- Mal`con*tent"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Mal`con*tent"ed*ness, n.

MALDANIAN
Mal*da"ni*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of marine annelids of the genus Maldane, or family
Maldanidæ. They have a slender, round body, and make tubes in the
sand or mud.

MALE-
Male-

Defn: . See Mal-.

MALE
Male, a. Etym: [L. malus. See Malice.]

Defn: Evil; wicked; bad. [Obs.] Marston.

MALE
Male, n.

Defn: Same as Mail, a bag. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MALE
Male, a. Etym: [F. mâle, OF. masle, mascle, fr. L. masculus male,
masculine, dim. of mas a male; possibly akin to E. man. Cf.
Masculine, Marry, v. t.]

1. Of or pertaining to the sex that begets or procreates young, or
(in a wider sense) to the sex that produces spermatozoa, by which the
ova are fertilized; not female; as, male organs.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Capable of producing fertilization, but not of bearing fruit; -
- said of stamens and antheridia, and of the plants, or parts of
plants, which bear them.

3. Suitable to the male sex; characteristic or suggestive of a male;
masculine; as, male courage.

4. Consisting of males; as, a male choir.

5. (Mech.)

Defn: Adapted for entering another corresponding piece (the female
piece) which is hollow and which it fits; as, a male gauge, for
gauging the size or shape of a hole; a male screw, etc. Male berry
(Bot.), a kind of coffee. See Pea berry.
 -- Male fern (Bot.), a fern of the genus Aspidium (A. Filixmas),
used in medicine as an anthelmintic, esp. against the tapeworm.
Aspidium marginale in America, and A. athamanticum in South Africa,
are used as good substitutes for the male fern in medical practice.
See Female fern, under Female.
 -- Male rhyme, a rhyme in which only the last syllables agree, as
laid, afraid, dismayed. See Female rhyme, under Female.
 -- Male screw (Mech.), a screw having threads upon its exterior
which enter the grooves upon the inside of a corresponding nut or
female screw.
 -- Male thread, the thread of a male screw.

MALE
Male, n.

1. An animal of the male sex.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant bearing only staminate flowers.

MALEADMINISTRATION
Male`ad*min`is*tra"tion, n.

Defn: Maladministration.

MALEATE
Ma*le"ate, n.

Defn: A salt of maleic acid.

MALEBRANCHISM
Male*branch"ism, n.

Defn: The philosophical system of Malebranche, an eminent French
metaphysician. The fundamental doctrine of his system is that the
mind can not have knowledge of anything external to itself except in
its relation to God.

MALECONFORMATION
Male*con`for*ma"tion, n.

Defn: Malconformation.

MALECONTENT
Male"con*tent`, a.

Defn: Malcontent.

MALEDICENCY
Mal`e*di"cen*cy, n. Etym: [L. maledicentia. See Maledicent.]

Defn: Evil speaking. [Obs.] Atterbury.

MALEDICENT
Mal`e*di"cent, a. Etym: [L. maledicens, p. pr. of maledicere to speak
ill; male ill + dicere to say, speak. See Malice, and Diction.]

Defn: Speaking reproachfully; slanderous. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys.

MALEDICT
Mal"e*dict, a. Etym: [L. maledictus, p. p. of maledicere.]

Defn: Accursed; abominable. [R.]

MALEDICTION
Mal`e*dic"tion, n. Etym: [L. maledictio: cf. F. malédiction. See
Maledicent.]

Defn: A proclaiming of evil against some one; a cursing; imprecation;
a curse or execration; -- opposed to benediction.
No malediction falls from his tongue. Longfellow.

Syn.
 -- Cursing; curse; execration; imprecation; denunciation; anathema.
 -- Malediction, Curse, Imprecation, Execration. Malediction is the
most general term, denoting bitter reproach, or wishes and
predictions of evil. Curse implies the desire or threat of evil,
declared upon oath or in the most solemn manner. Imprecation is
literally the praying down of evil upon a person. Execration is
literally a putting under the ban of excommunication, a curse which
excludes from the kingdom of God. In ordinary usage, the last three
words describe profane swearing, execration being the strongest.

MALEFACTION
Mal`e*fac"tion, n. Etym: [See Malefactor.]

Defn: A crime; an offense; an evil deed. [R.] Shak.

MALEFACTOR
Mal`e*fac"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. malefacere to do evil; male ill,
evil + facere to do. See Malice, and Fact.]

1. An evil doer; one who commits a crime; one subject to public
prosecution and punishment; a criminal.

2. One who does wrong by injuring another, although not a criminal.
[Obs.] H. Brooke. Fuller.

Syn.
 -- Evil doer; criminal; culprit; felon; convict.

MALEFACTRESS
Mal`e*fac"tress, n.

Defn: A female malefactor. Hawthorne.

MALEFEASANCE
Male*fea"sance, n.

Defn: See Malfeasance.

MALEFIC
Ma*lef"ic, a. Etym: [L. maleficus: cf. F. maléfique. See
Malefaction.]

Defn: Doing mischief; causing harm or evil; nefarious; hurtful. [R.]
Chaucer.

MALEFICE
Mal"e*fice, n. Etym: [L. maleficium: cf. F. maléfice. See
Malefactor.]

Defn: An evil deed; artifice; enchantment. [Obs.]

MALEFICENCE
Ma*lef"i*cence, n. Etym: [L. maleficentia. Cf. Malfeasance.]

Defn: Evil doing, esp. to others.

MALEFICENT
Ma*lef"i*cent, a. Etym: [See Malefic.]

Defn: Doing evil to others; harmful; mischievous.

MALEFICIAL
Mal`e*fi"cial, a.

Defn: Injurious. Fuller.

MALEFICIATE
Mal`e*fi"ci*ate, v. t. Etym: [LL. maleficiatus, p. p. of maleficiare
to bewitch, fr. L. maleficium. See Malefice.]

Defn: To bewitch; to harm. [Obs.] Burton.

MALEFICIATION
Mal`e*fi`ci*a"tion, n.

Defn: A bewitching. [Obs.]

MALEFICIENCE
Mal`e*fi"cience, n. Etym: [See Maleficence.]

Defn: The doing of evil, harm, or mischief.

MALEFICIENT
Mal`e*fi"cient, a. Etym: [See Maleficent.]

Defn: Doing evil, harm, or mischief.

MALEFORMATION
Male`for*ma"tion, n.

Defn: See Malformation.

MALEIC
Ma*le"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. maléique. See Malic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the ethylene series,
metameric with fumaric acid and obtained by heating malic acid.

MALENGINE
Ma*len"gine, n. Etym: [OF. malengin; L. malus bad, evil + ingenium
natural capacity. See Engine.]

Defn: Evil machination; guile; deceit. [Obs.] Gower.

MALEO
Ma"le*o, n. Etym: [From its native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of Celebes (megacephalon maleo), allied to the brush
turkey. It makes mounds in which to lay its eggs.

MALE-ODOR
Male-o"dor, n.

Defn: See Malodor.

MALEPRACTICE
Male*prac"tice, n.

Defn: See Malpractice.

MALE-SPIRITED
Male"-spir`it*ed, a.

Defn: Having the spirit of a male; vigorous; courageous. [R.] B.
Jonson.

MALET
Mal"et, n. Etym: [F. mallette, dim. of malle. See Mail a bag.]

Defn: A little bag or budget. [Obs.] Shelton.

MALETREAT
Male*treat", v. t.

Defn: See Maltreat.

MALEVOLENCE
Ma*lev"o*lence, n. Etym: [L. malevolentia. See Malevolent.]

Defn: The quality or state of being malevolent; evil disposition
toward another; inclination to injure others; ill will. See Synonym
of Malice.

MALEVOLENT
Ma*lev"o*lent, a. Etym: [L. malevolens, -entis; male ill + volens, p.
pr. of velle to be willing or disposed, to wish. See Malice, and
Voluntary.]

Defn: Wishing evil; disposed to injure others; rejoicing in another's
misfortune.

Syn.
 -- Ill-disposed; envious; mischievous; evil-minded; spiteful;
malicious; malignant; rancorous.

MALEVOLENTLY
Ma*lev"o*lent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a malevolent manner.

MALEVOLOUS
Ma*lev"o*lous, a. Etym: [L. malevolus; fr. male ill + velle to be
disposed.]

Defn: Malevolent. [Obs.] Bp. Warburton.

MALEXECUTION
Mal*ex`e*cu"tion, n. Etym: [Mal- + execution.]

Defn: Bad execution. D. Webster.

MALEYL
Ma*le"yl, n. Etym: [Maleic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical derived from maleic acid.

MALFEASANCE
Mal*fea"sance, n. Etym: [F. malfaisance, fr. malfaisant injurious,
doing ill; mal ill, evil + faisant doing, p. pr. of faire to do. See
Malice, Feasible, and cf. Maleficence.] (Law)

Defn: The doing of an act which a person ought not to do; evil
conduct; an illegal deed. [Written also malefeasance.]

MALFORMATION
Mal`for*ma"tion, n. Etym: [Mal- + forniation.]

Defn: Ill formation; irregular or anomalous formation; abnormal or
wrong conformation or structure.

MALGRACIOUS
Mal*gra"cious, a. Etym: [F. malgracieux.]

Defn: Not graceful; displeasing. [Obs.] Gower.

MALGRE
Mal"gre, prep.

Defn: See Mauger.

MALIC
Ma"lic, a. Etym: [L. malum an apple: cf. F. malique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, apples; as, malic acid. Malic
acid, a hydroxy acid obtained as a substance which is sirupy or
crystallized with difficulty, and has a strong but pleasant sour
taste. It occurs in many fruits, as in green apples, currants, etc.
It is levorotatory or dextrorotatory according to the temperature and
concentration. An artificial variety is a derivative of succinic
acid, but has no action on polarized light, and thus malic acid is a
remarkable case of physical isomerism.

MALICE
Mal"ice, n. Etym: [F. malice, fr. L. malitia, from malus bad, ill,
evil, prob. orig., dirty, black; cf. Gr. mala dirt. Cf. Mauger.]

1. Enmity of heart; malevolence; ill will; a spirit delighting in
harm or misfortune to another; a disposition to injure another; a
malignant design of evil. "Nor set down aught in malice." Shak.
Envy, hatred, and malice are three distinct passions of the mind. Ld.
Holt.

2. (Law)

Defn: Any wicked or mischievous intention of the mind; a depraved
inclination to mischief; an intention to vex, annoy, or injure
another person, or to do a wrongful act without just cause or cause
or excuse; a wanton disregard of the rights or safety of others;
willfulness. Malice aforethought or prepense, malice previously and
deliberately entertained.

Syn.
 -- Spite; ill will; malevolence; grudge; pique; bitterness;
animosity; malignity; maliciousness; rancor; virulence. See Spite.
 -- Malevolence, Malignity, Malignancy. Malice is a stronger word
than malevolence, which may imply only a desire that evil may befall
another, while malice desires, and perhaps intends, to bring it
about. Malignity is intense and deepseated malice. It implies a
natural delight in hating and wronging others. One who is malignant
must be both malevolent and malicious; but a man may be malicious
without being malignant.
Proud tyrants who maliciously destroy And ride o'er ruins with
malignant joy. Somerville.
in some connections, malignity seems rather more pertinently applied
to a radical depravity of nature, and malignancy to indications of
this depravity, in temper and conduct in particular instances. Cogan.

MALICE
Mal"ice, v. t.

Defn: To regard with extreme ill will. [Obs.]

MALICHO
Mal"i*cho, n. Etym: [Sp. malhecho; mal bad + hecho deed, L. factum.
See Fact.]

Defn: Mischief. [Obs.] Shak.

MALICIOUS
Ma*li"cious, a. Etym: [Of. malicius, F. malicieux, fr. L. malitiosus.
See Malice.]

1. Indulging or exercising malice; harboring ill will or enmity.
I grant him bloody, . . . Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin
That has a name. Shak.

2. Proceeding from hatred or ill will; dictated by malice; as, a
malicious report; malicious mischief.

3. (Law)

Defn: With wicked or mischievous intentions or motives; wrongful and
done intentionally without just cause or excuse; as, a malicious act.
Malicious abandonment, the desertion of a wife or husband without
just cause. Burrill.
 -- Malicious mischief (Law), malicious injury to the property of
another; -- an offense at common law. Wharton.
 -- Malicious prosecution or arrest (Law), a wanton prosecution or
arrest, by regular process in a civil or criminal proceeding, without
probable cause. Bouvier.

Syn.
 -- Ill-disposed; evil-minded; mischievous; envious; malevolent;
invidious; spiteful; bitter; malignant; rancorous; malign.
 -- Ma*li"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Ma*li"cious*ness, n.

MALIGN
Ma*lign", a. Etym: [L. malignus, for maligenus, i. e., of a bad kind
or nature; malus bad + the root of genus birth, race, kind: cf. F.
malin, masc., maligne, fem. See Malice, Gender, and cf. Benign,
Malignant.]

1. Having an evil disposition toward others; harboring violent
enmity; malevolent; malicious; spiteful; -- opposed to benign.
Witchcraft may be by operation of malign spirits. Bacon.

2. Unfavorable; unpropitious; pernicious; tending to injure; as, a
malign aspect of planets.

3. Malignant; as, a malign ulcer. [R.] Bacon.

MALIGN
Ma*lign", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Maligned; p. pr. & vb. n. Maligning.]
Etym: [Cf. L. malignare. See Malign, a.]

Defn: To treat with malice; to show hatred toward; to abuse; to
wrong; to injure. [Obs.]
The people practice what mischiefs and villainies they will against
private men, whom they malign by stealing their goods, or murdering
them. Spenser.

2. To speak great evil of; to traduce; to defame; to slander; to
vilify; to asperse.
To be envied and shot at; to be maligned standing, and to be despised
falling. South.

MALIGN
Ma*lign", v. i.

Defn: To entertain malice. [Obs.]

MALIGNANCE; MALIGNANCY
Ma*lig"nance, Ma*lig"nan*cy , n. Etym: [See Malignant.]

1. The state or quality of being malignant; extreme malevolence;
bitter enmity; malice; as, malignancy of heart.

2. Unfavorableness; evil nature.
The malignancy of my fate might perhaps distemner yours. Shak.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Virulence; tendency to a fatal issue; as, the malignancy of an
ulcer or of a fever.

4. The state of being a malignant.

Syn.
 -- Malice; malevolence; malignity. See Malice.

MALIGNANT
Ma*lig"nant, a. Etym: [L. malignans, -antis, p. pr. of malignare,
malignari, to do or make maliciously. See Malign, and cf. Benignant.]

1. Disposed to do harm, inflict suffering, or cause distress;
actuated by extreme malevolence or enmity; virulently inimical; bent
on evil; malicious.
A malignant and a turbaned Turk. Shak.

2. Characterized or caused by evil intentions; pernicious. "Malignant
care." Macaulay.
Some malignant power upon my life. Shak.
Something deleterious and malignant as his touch. Hawthorne.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Tending to produce death; threatening a fatal issue; virulent;
as, malignant diphtheria. Malignant pustule (Med.), a very contagious
disease, transmitted to man from animals, characterized by the
formation, at the point of reception of the virus, of a vesicle or
pustule which first enlarges and then breaks down into an unhealthy
ulcer. It is marked by profound exhaustion and usually fatal. Called
also charbon, and sometimes, improperly, anthrax.

MALIGNANT
Ma*lig"nant, n.

1. A man of extrems enmity or evil intentions. Hooker.

2. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: One of the adherents of Charles L. or Charles LL.; -- so called
by the opposite party.

MALIGNANTLY
Ma*lig"nant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a malignant manner.

MALIGNER
Ma*lign"er, n.

Defn: One who maligns.

MALIGNIFY
Ma*lig"ni*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Malignified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Malignifying.] Etym: [L. malignus malign + -fy.]

Defn: To make malign or malignant. [R.] "A strong faith malignified."
Southey.

MALIGNITY
Ma*lig"ni*ty, n. Etym: [F. malignité, L. malignitas.]

1. The state or quality of being malignant; disposition to do evil;
virulent enmity; malignancy; malice; spite.

2. Virulence; deadly quality.
His physicians discerned an invincible malignity in his disease.
Hayward.

3. Extreme evilness of nature or influence; perniciousness;
heinousness; as, the malignity of fraud. [R.]

Syn.
 -- See Malice.

MALIGNLY
Ma*lign"ly, adv.

Defn: In a malign manner; with malignity.

MALINGER
Ma*lin"ger, v. i. [imp. & p. p. MAlingered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Malingering.]

Defn: To act the part of a malingerer; to feign illness or inability.

MALINGERER
Ma*lin"ger*er, n. Etym: [F. malingre sickly, weakly, prob. from mal
ill + OF. heingre, haingre, thin, lean, infirm, fr. L. aeger.]

Defn: In the army, a soldier who feigns himself sick, or who induces
or protracts an illness, in order to avoid doing his duty; hence, in
general, one who shirks his duty by pretending illness or inability.

MALINGERY
Ma*lin"ger*y, n.

Defn: The spirit or practices of a malingerer; malingering.

MALISON
Mal"i*son, n. Etym: [OF. maleicon, L. maledictio. See Malediction,
and cf. Benison.]

Defn: Malediction; curse; execration. [Poetic]
God's malison on his head who this gainsays. Sir W. Scott.

MALKIN
Mal"kin, n. Etym: [Dim. of Maud, the proper name. Cf. Grimalkin.]
[Written also maukin.]

1. Originally, a kitchenmaid; a slattern. Chaucer.

2. A mop made of clouts, used by the kitchen servant.

3. A scarecrow.[Prov. Eng.]

4. (Mil.)

Defn: A mop or sponge attached to a jointed staff for swabbing out a
cannon.

MALL
Mall, n. [Written also maul.] Etym: [OE. malle, F. mail, L. malleus.
Cf. Malleus.]

1. A large heavy wooden beetle; a mallet for driving anything with
force; a maul. Addison.

2. A heavy blow. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. An old game played with malls or mallets and balls. See Pall-mall.
Cotton.

4. A place where the game of mall was played. Hence: A public walk; a
level shaded walk.
Part of the area was laid out in gravel walks, and planted with elms;
and these convenient and frequented walks obtained the name of the
City Mall. Southey.

MALL
Mall, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Malled; p. pr. & vb. n. Malling.] Etym:
[Cf. OF. mailler. See Mall beetle, and cf. Malleate.]

Defn: To beat with a mall; to beat with something heavy; to bruise;
to maul.

MALL
Mall, n. Etym: [LL. mallum a public assembly; cf. OHG. mahal
assembly, transaction; akin to AS. mæ, me, assembly, m to speak,
Goth. mapl market place.]

Defn: Formerly, among Teutonic nations, a meeting of the notables of
a state for the transaction of public business, such meeting being a
modification of the ancient popular assembly. Hence:
(a) A court of justice.
(b) A place where justice is administered.
(c) A place where public meetings are held.
Councils, which had been as frequent as diets or malls, ceased.
Milman.

MALLARD
Mal"lard, n. Etym: [F. malari,fr. mâle male + -art =-ard. See Male,
a., and -ard.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A drake; the male of Anas boschas.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large wild duck (Anas boschas) inhabiting both America and
Europe. The domestic duck has descended from this species. Called
also greenhead.

MALLEABILITY
Mal"le*a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [CF. F. malléabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being malleable; -- opposed to
friability and brittleness. Locke.

MALLEABLE
Mal"le*a*ble, a. Etym: [F. malléable, fr. LL. malleare to hammer. See
Malleate.]

Defn: Capable of being extended or shaped by beating with a hammer,
or by the pressure of rollers; -- applied to metals. Malleable iron,
iron that is capable of extension or of being shaped under the
hammer; decarbonized cast iron. See under Iron.
 -- Malleable iron castings, articles cast from pig iron and made
malleable by heating then for several days in the presence of some
substance, as hematite, which deprives the cast iron of some of its
carbon.

MALLEABLEIZE
Mal"le*a*ble*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make malleable.

MALLEABLENESS
Mal"le*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being malleable.

MALLEAL
Mal"le*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the malleus.

MALLEATE
Mal"le*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Malleated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Malleating.] Etym: [L. malleatus hammered, fr. malleus a hammer. See
Mall, v. t.]

Defn: To hammer; to beat into a plate or leaf.

MALLEATION
Mal`le*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. malleatio: cf. OF. malléation.]

Defn: The act or process of beating into a plate, sheet, or leaf, as
a metal; extension by beating.

MALLECHO
Mal"le*cho, n.

Defn: Same as Malicho.

MALLEE BIRD
Mal*lee" bird`. (Zoöl.) Etym: [From native name.]

Defn: The leipoa. See Leipoa.

MALLEMOCK; MALLEMOKE
Mal"le*mock, Mal"le*moke, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mollemoke.

MALLENDERS
Mal"len*ders, n. pl. (Far.)

Defn: Same as Malanders.

MALLEOLAR
Mal*le"o*lar, a. Etym: [See Malleolus.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the malleolus; in the region of the
malleoli of the ankle joint.

MALLEOLUS
Mal*le"*o*lus, n.; pl. Malleoli. Etym: [L., dim. of malleus hammer.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A projection at the distal end of each bone of the leg at the
ankle joint. The malleolus of the tibia is the internal projection,
that of the fibula the external.

2. " A layer, " a shoot partly buried in the ground, and there cut
halfway through.

MALLET
Mal"let, n. Etym: [F. maillet, dim. of mail. See Mall a beetle.]

Defn: A small maul with a short handle, -- used esp. for driving a
tool, as a chisel or the like; also, a light beetle with a long
handle, -- used in playing croquet.

MALLEUS
Mal"le*us, n.; pl. Mallei. Etym: [L., hammer. See Mall a beetle.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The outermost of the three small auditory bones, ossicles; the
hammer. It is attached to the tympanic membrane by a long process,
the handle or manubrium. See Illust. of Far.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the hard lateral pieces of the mastax of Rotifera. See
Mastax.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of bivalve shells; the hammer shell.

MALLOPHAGA
Mal*loph"a*ga, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive group of insects which are parasitic on birds and
mammals, and feed on the feathers and hair; -- called also bird lice.
See Bird louse, under Bird.

MALLOTUS
Mal*lo"tus, n. Etym: [NL., fr Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small Arctic fishes. One American species, the
capelin (Mallotus villosus), is extensively used as bait for cod.

MALLOW; MALLOWS
Mal"low, Mal"lows, n. Etym: [OE. malwe, AS. mealwe, fr. L. malva,
akin to Gr. mala`chh; cf. mala`ssein to soften, malako`s soft. Named
either from its softening or relaxing properties, or from its soft
downy leaves. Cf. Mauve, Malachite.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants (Malva) having mucilaginous qualities. See
Malvaceous.

Note: The flowers of the common mallow (M. sylvestris) are used in
medicine. The dwarf mallow (M. rotundifolia) is a common weed, and
its flattened, dick-shaped fruits are called cheeses by children.
Tree mallow (M. Mauritiana and Lavatera arborea), musk mallow (M.
moschata), rose mallow or hollyhock, and curled mallow (M. crispa),
are less commonly seen. Indian mallow. See Abutilon.
 -- Jew's mallow, a plant (Corchorus olitorius) used as a pot herb by
the Jews of Egypt and Syria.
 -- Marsh mallow. See under Marsh.

MALLOWWORT
Mal"low*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the order Malvaceæ.

MALM; MALMBRICK
Malm, Malm"brick`, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. mealm sand.]

Defn: A kind of brick of a light brown or yellowish color, made of
sand, clay, and chalk.

MALMA
Mal"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spotted trout (Salvelinus malma), inhabiting Northern
America, west of the Rocky Mountains; -- called also Dolly Varden
trout, bull trout, red-spotted trout, and golet.

MALMAG
Mal"mag, n. Etym: [F., from native name in Madagascar.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The tarsius, or spectral lemur.

MALMSEY
Malm"sey, n. Etym: [OE. malvesie, F. malvoisie, It. malvasia,
malavagia, fr. Malvasia, or Napoli di Malvasia, in the Morea.]

Defn: A kind of sweet wine from Crete, the Canary Islands, etc. Shak.

MALNUTRITION
Mal`nu*tri"tion, n. Etym: [Mal- + nutrition.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Faulty or imperfect nutrition.

MALOBSERVATION
Mal*ob`ser*va"tion, n. Etym: [Mal- + observation.]

Defn: Erroneous observation. J. S Mill.

MALODOR
Mal*o"dor, n.

Defn: An Offensive to the sense of smell; ill-smelling.
 -- Mal*o"dor*ous*ness. n. Carlyle.

MALODOROUS
Mal*o"dor*ous, a.

Defn: Offensive to the sense of smell; ill-smelling. --
Mal*o"dor*ous*ness. n. Carlyle.
[1913 Webster]

MALONATE
Mal"o*nate, a. (Chem.)

Defn: At salt of malonic acid.

MALONIC
Ma*lon"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid produced artifically as
a white crystalline substance, CH2.(CO2H)2, and so called because
obtained by the oxidation of malic acid.

MALONYL
Mal"o*nyl, n. Etym: [Malonic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon radical, CH2.(CO)2, from malonic acid.

MALPAIS
Mal"pais`, n. [Cf. Sp. mal, malo, bad, and país country.] (Geol.)

Defn: The rough surface of a congealed lava stream. [Southwestern U.
S.]

MALPIGHIA
Mal*pi"ghi*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Malpighian.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical American shrubs with opposite leaves and
small white or reddish flowers. The drupes of Malpighia urens are
eaten under the name of Barbadoes cherries.

MALPIGHIACEOUS
Mal*pi`ghi*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of tropical
trees and shrubs (Malpighiaceæ), some of them climbing plants, and
their stems forming many of the curious lianes of South American
forests.

MALPIGHIAN
Mal*pi"ghi*an, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Marcello Malpighi, an
Italian anatomist of the 17th century. Malhighian capsules or
corpuscles, the globular dilatations, containing the glomeruli or
Malpighian tufts, at the extremities of the urinary tubules of the
kidney. Malpighian corpuscles of the spleen, masses of adenoid tissue
connected with branches of the splenic artery.

MALPOSITION
Mal`po*si"tion, n. Etym: [Mal- + position.]

Defn: A wrong position.

MALPRACTICE
Mal*prac"tice, n. Etym: [Mal- + practice.]

Defn: Evil practice; illegal or immoral conduct; practice contrary to
established rules; specifically, the treatment of a case by a surgeon
or physician in a manner which is contrary to accepted rules and
productive of unfavorable results. [Written also malepractice.]

MALT
Malt, n. Etym: [AS. mealt; akin to D. mout, G. malz, Icel., Sw., &
Dan. malt, and E. melt. sq. root108. See Melt.]

Defn: Barley or other grain, steeped in water and dried in a kiln,
thus forcing germination until the saccharine principle has been
evolved. It is used in brewing and in the distillation of whisky.

MALT
Malt, a.

Defn: Relating to, containing, or made with, malt. Malt liquor, an
alcoholic liquor, as beer, ale, porter, etc., prepared by fermenting
an infusion of malt.
 -- Malt dust, fine particles of malt, or of the grain used in making
malt; -used as a fertilizer. " Malt dust consists chiefly of the
infant radicle separated from the grain." Sir H. Davy.
 -- Malt floor, a floor for drying malt.
 -- Malt house, or Malthouse, a house in which malt is made.
 -- Malt kiln, a heated chamber for drying malt.

MALT
Malt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Malted: p. pr. & vb. n. Malting.]

Defn: To make into malt; as, to malt barley.

MALT
Malt, v. i.

Defn: To become malt; also, to make grain into malt. Mortimer.

MALTALENT
Mal"ta*lent, n. Etym: [F. See Malice, and Talent.]

Defn: Ill will; malice. [Obs.] Rom. of R. Spenser.

MALTESE
Mal*tese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Malta or to its inhabitants.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Malta; the people of Malta. Maltese
cat (Zoöl.), a mouse-colored variety of the domestic cat.
 -- Maltese cross. See Illust. 5, of Cross.
 -- Maltese dog (Zoöl.), a breed of small terriers, having long silky
white hair. The breed originated in Malta.

MALTHA
Mal"tha, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A variety of bitumen, viscid and tenacious, like pitch, unctuous
to the touch, and exhaling a bituminous odor.

2. Mortar. [Obs.] Holland.

MALTHUSIAN
Mal*thu"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the political economist, the Rev. T. R.
Malthus, or conforming to his views; as, Malthusian theories.

Note: Malthus held that population tends to increase faster than its
means of subsistence can be made to do, and hence that the lower
classes must necessarily suffer more or less from lack of food,
unless an increase of population be checked by prudential restraint
or otherwise.

MALTHUSIAN
Mal*thu"sian, n.

Defn: A follower of Malthus.

MALTHUSIANISM
Mal*thu"sian*ism, n.

Defn: The system of Malthusian doctrines relating to population.

MALTIN; MALTINE
Malt"in, Malt"ine, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The fermentative principle of malt; malt diastase; also, a name
given to various medicinal preparations made from or containing malt.

MALTING
Malt"ing, n.

Defn: The process of making, or of becoming malt.

MALTMAN
Malt"man, n.; pl. Maltmen (.

Defn: A man whose occupation is to make malt.

MALTONIC
Mal*ton"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, maltose; specif.,
designating an acid called also gluconic or dextronic acid. See
Gluconic.

MALTOSE
Malt"ose`, n. Etym: [From Malt.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline sugar formed from starch by the action of
distance of malt, and the amylolytic ferment of saliva and pancreatic
juice. It resembles dextrose, but rotates the plane of polarized
light further to the right and possesses a lower cupric oxide
reducing power.

MALTREAT
Mal*treat", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Maltreated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Maltreating.] Etym: [Mal- + treat: cf. F. maltraiter.]

Defn: To treat ill; to abuse; to treat roughly.

MALTREATMENT
Mal*treat"ment, n.; Etym: [Cf. F. maltraitement.]

Defn: Ill treatment; ill usage; abuse.

MALTSTER
Malt"ster, n.

Defn: A maltman. Swift.

MALTWORM
Malt"worm`, n.

Defn: A tippler. [R.] Shak.

MALTY
Malt"y, a.

Defn: Consisting, or like, malt. Dickens.

MALUM
Ma"lum, n.; pl. Mala. Etym: [L.]

Defn: An evil. See Mala.

MALVACEOUS
Mal*va"ceous, a. Etym: [L. malvaceus, from malva mallows. See
Mallow.] (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants
(Malvaceæ), of which the mallow is the type. The cotton plant,
hollyhock, and abutilon are of this order, and the baobab and the
silk-cotton trees are now referred to it.

MALVERSATION
Mal`ver*sa"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. malverser to be corrupt in office,
fr. L. male ill + versari to move about, to occupy one's self,
vertere to turn. See Malice, and Verse.]

Defn: Evil conduct; fraudulent practices; misbehavior, corruption, or
extortion in office.

MALVESIE
Mal"ve*sie, n.

Defn: Malmsey wine. See Malmsey. " A jub of malvesye." Chaucer.

MAM
Mam, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. mamma.]

Defn: Mamma.

MAM
Mam (mam), n. [Abbrev. fr. mamma.]

Defn: Mamma.

MAMA
Ma*ma", n.

Defn: See Mamma.

MAMALUKE
Mam"a*luke, n.

Defn: Same as Mameluke.

MAMELON
Mam"e*lon, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A rounded hillock; a rounded elevation or protuberance.
Westmin. Rev.

MAMELUCO
Mam`e*lu"co, n. Etym: [Pg.]

Defn: A child born of a white father and Indian mother. [S. Amer.]

MAMELUKE
Mam"e*luke, n. Etym: [F. mamelouk, cf. Sp. mameluco, It. mammalucco;
all fr. Ar. maml a purchased slave or captive; lit., possessed or in
one's power, p. p. of malaka to possesses.]

Defn: One of a body of mounted soldiers recruited from slaves
converted to Mohammedanism, who, during several centuries, had more
or less control of the government of Egypt, until exterminated or
dispersed by Mehemet Ali in 1811.

MAMILLATED
Mam"il*la`ted, a.

Defn: See Mammillated.

MAMMA
Mam*ma", n. Etym: [Reduplicated from the infantine word ma,
influenced in spelling by L. mamma.]

Defn: Mother; -- word of tenderness and familiarity. [Written also
mama.]
Tell tales papa and mamma. Swift.

MAMMA
Mam"ma, n.; pl. Mammæ. Etym: [L. mamma breast.] (Anat.)

Defn: A glandular organ for secreting milk, characteristic of all
mammals, but usually rudimentary in the male; a mammary gland; a
breast; under; bag.

MAMMAL
Mam"mal, n.; pl. Mammals. Etym: [L. mammalis belonging to the breast,
fr. mamma the breast or pap: cf. F. mammal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Mammalia. Age of mammals. See under Age, n., 8.

MAMMALIA
Mam*ma"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. mammalis. See Mammal.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The highest class of Vertebrata. The young are nourished for a
time by milk, or an analogous fluid, secreted by the mammary glands
of the mother.

Note: Mammalia are divided into threes subclasses; --I. Placentalia.
This subclass embraces all the higher orders, including man. In these
the fetus is attached to the uterus by a placenta. II. Marsupialia.
In these no placenta is formed, and the young, which are born at an
early state of development, are carried for a time attached to the
teats, and usually protected by a marsupial pouch. The opossum,
kangaroo, wombat, and koala are examples. III. Monotremata. In this
group, which includes the genera Echidna and Ornithorhynchus, the
female lays large eggs resembling those of a bird or lizard, and the
young, which are hatched like those of birds, are nourished by a
watery secretion from the imperfectly developed mammæ.

MAMMALIAN
Mam*ma"li*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Mammalia or mammals.

MAMMALIFEROUS
Mam`ma*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Mammal + -ferous.] (Geol.)

Defn: Containing mammalian remains; -- said of certain strata.

MAMMALOGICAL
Mam`ma*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to mammalogy.

MAMMALOGIST
Mam*mal"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mammalogiste.]

Defn: One versed in mammalogy.

MAMMALOGY
Mam*mal"o*gy, n. Etym: [Mamma breast + -logy: cf. f. mammalogie.]

Defn: The science which relates to mammals or the Mammalia. See
Mammalia.

MAMMARY
Mam"ma*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mammaire.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the mammæ or breasts; as, the mammary
arteries and veins.

MAMMEE
Mam*mee", n. Etym: [Haytian mamey.] (Bot.)

Defn: A fruit tree of tropical America, belonging to the genus Mammea
(M. Americana); also, its fruit. The latter is large, covered with a
thick, tough ring, and contains a bright yellow pulp of a pleasant
taste and fragrant scent. It is often called mammee apple.

MAMMER
Mam"mer, v. i. Etym: [Cf. G. memme coward, poltroon.]

Defn: To hesitate; to mutter doubtfully. [Obs.]

MAMMET
Mam"met, n. Etym: [See Mawmet.]

Defn: An idol; a puppet; a doll. [Obs.] Selden. Shak.

MAMMETRY
Mam"met*ry, n.

Defn: See Mawmetry. [Obs.]

MAMMIFER
Mam"mi*fer, n. Etym: [NL. See Mammiferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A mammal. See Mammalia.

MAMMIFEROUS
Mam*mif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Mamma breast + -ferous: cf. F. mammifère.]

Defn: Having breasts; of, pertaining to, or derived from, the
Mammalia.

MAMMIFORM
Mam"mi*form, a. Etym: [Mamma breast + -form: cf. F. mammiforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a mamma (breast) or mammæ.

MAMMILLA
Mam*mil"la, n.; pl. Mammilæ. Etym: [L., dim. of mamma a breast.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The nipple.

MAMMILLARY
Mam"mil*la*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mammilaire. See Mammilla.]

1. Of or pertaining to the mammilla, or nipple, or to the breast;
resembling a mammilla; mammilloid.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Composed of convex convex concretions, somewhat resembling the
breasts in form; studded with small mammiform protuberances.

MAMMILLATE; MAMMILLATED
Mam"mil*late, Mam"mil*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Mammilla.]

1. Having small nipples, or small protuberances like nipples or
mammæ.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Bounded like a nipple; -- said of the apex of some shells.

MAMMILLIFORM
Mam*mil"li*form, a. Etym: [Mammil + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a mammilla.

MAMMILLOID
Mam"mil*loid, a. Etym: [Mammilla + -oid.]

Defn: Like a mammilla or nipple; mammilliform.

MAMMOCK
Mam"mock, n. Etym: [Ir. & Gael. mam a round hill + -ock.]

Defn: A shapeless piece; a fragment. [Obs.]

MAMMOCK
Mam"mock, v. t.

Defn: To tear to pieces. [Obs.] Milton.

MAMMODIS
Mam"mo*dis, n. Etym: [F. mamoudis, fr. Hind. mahmudi a muslin.]

Defn: Coarse plain India muslins.

MAMMOLOGY
Mam*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Mamma + -logy.]

Defn: Mastology. See Mammalogy.

MAMMON
Mam"mon, n. Etym: [L. mammona, Gr. mam; cf. Heb. matm a hiding place,
subterranean storehouse, treasury, fr. taman to hide.]

Defn: Riches; wealth; the god of riches; riches, personified.
Ye can not serve God and Mammon. Matt. vi. 24.

MAMMONISH
Mam"mon*ish, a.

Defn: Actuated or prompted by a devotion to money getting or the
service of Mammon. Carlyle.

MAMMONISM
Mam"mon*ism, n.

Defn: Devotion to the pursuit of wealth; worldliness. Carlyle.

MAMMONIST
Mam"mon*ist, n.

Defn: A mammonite.

MAMMONITE
Mam"mon*ite, n.

Defn: One devoted to the acquisition of wealth or the service of
Mammon. C. Kingsley.

MAMMONIZATION
Mam`mon*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The process of making mammonish; the state of being under the
influence of mammonism.

MAMMONIZE
Mam"mon*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make mammonish.

MAMMOSE
Mam*mose", a. Etym: [L. mammosus having large breasts, mamma breast.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of the breast; breast-shaped.

MAMMOTH
Mam"moth, n. Etym: [Russ. mâmont, mámant, fr. Tartar mamma the earth.
Certain Tartar races, the Tungooses and Yakoots, believed that the
mammoth worked its way in the earth like a mole.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extinct, hairy, maned elephant (Elephas primigenius), of
enormous size, remains of which are found in the northern parts of
both continents. The last of the race, in Europe, were coeval with
prehistoric man.

Note: Several specimens have been found in Siberia preserved entire,
with the flesh and hair remaining. They were imbedded in the ice
cliffs at a remote period, and became exposed by the melting of the
ice.

MAMMOTH
Mam"moth, a.

Defn: Resembling the mammoth in size; very large; gigantic; as, a
mammoth ox.

MAMMOTHREPT
Mam"mo*thrept, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A child brought up by its grandmother; a spoiled child. [R.]
O, you are a more mammothrept in judgment. B. Jonson.

MAMMY
Mam"my, n.; pl. Mammies (.

Defn: A child's name for mamma, mother.

MAMZER
Mam"zer, n. Etym: [Heb. mámz.]

Defn: A person born of relations between whom marriage was forbidden
by the Mosaic law; a bastard. Deut. xxiii. 2 (Douay version).

MAN
Man, n.; pl. Men. Etym: [AS. mann, man, monn, mon; akin to OS., D., &
OHG. man, G. mann, Icel. maedhr, for mannr, Dan. Mand, Sw. man, Goth.
manna, Skr. manu, manus, and perh. to Skr. man to think, and E. mind.
sq. root104. Cf. Minx a pert girl.]

1. A human being; -- opposed tobeast.
These men went about wide, and man found they none, But fair country,
and wild beast many [a] one. R. of Glouc.
The king is but a man, as I am; the violet smells to him as it doth
to me. Shak.

2. Especially: An adult male person; a grown-up male person, as
distinguished from a woman or a child.
When I became a man, I put away childish things. I Cor. xiii. 11.
Ceneus, a woman once, and once a man. Dryden.

3. The human race; mankind.
And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness, and
let them have dominion. Gen. i. 26.
The proper study of mankind is man. Pope.

4. The male portion of the human race.
Woman has, in general, much stronger propensity than man to the
discharge of parental duties. Cowper.

5. One possessing in a high degree the distinctive qualities of
manhood; one having manly excellence of any kind. Shak.
This was the noblest Roman of them all . . . the elements So mixed in
him that Nature might stand up And say to all the world "This was a
man! Shak.

6. An adult male servant; also, a vassal; a subject.
Like master, like man. Old Proverb.
The vassal, or tenant, kneeling, ungirt, uncovered, and holding up
his hands between those of his lord, professed that he did become his
man from that day forth, of life, limb, and earthly honor.
Blackstone.

7. A term of familiar address often implying on the part of the
speaker some degree of authority, impatience, or haste; as, Come,
man, we 've no time to lose !

8. A married man; a husband; -- correlative to wife.
I pronounce that they are man and wife. Book of Com. Prayer.
every wife ought to answer for her man. Addison.

9. One, or any one, indefinitely; -- a modified survival of the Saxon
use of man, or mon, as an indefinite pronoun.
A man can not make him laugh. Shak.
A man would expect to find some antiquities; but all they have to
show of this nature is an old rostrum of a Roman ship. Addison.

10. One of the piece with which certain games, as chess or draughts,
are played.

Note: Man is often used as a prefix in composition, or as a separate
adjective, its sense being usually self-explaining; as, man child,
man eater or maneater, man-eating, man hater or manhater, man-hating,
manhunter, man-hunting, mankiller, man-killing, man midwife, man
pleaser, man servant, man-shaped, manslayer, manstealer, man-
stealing, manthief, man worship, etc. Man is also used as a suffix to
denote a person of the male sex having a business which pertains to
the thing spoken of in the qualifying part of the compound; ashman,
butterman, laundryman, lumberman, milkman, fireman, showman,
waterman, woodman. Where the combination is not familiar, or where
some specific meaning of the compound is to be avoided, man is used
as a separate substantive in the foregoing sense; as, apple man,
cloth man, coal man, hardware man, wood man (as distinguished from
woodman). Man ape (Zoöl.), a anthropoid ape, as the gorilla.
 -- Man at arms, a designation of the fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries for a soldier fully armed.
 -- Man engine, a mechanical lift for raising or lowering people
through considerable distances; specifically (Mining), a contrivance
by which miners ascend or descend in a shaft. It consists of a series
of landings in the shaft and an equal number of shelves on a vertical
rod which has an up and down motion equal to the distance between the
successive landings. A man steps from a landing to a shelf and is
lifted or lowered to the next landing, upon which he them steps, and
so on, traveling by successive stages.
 -- Man Friday, a person wholly subservient to the will of another,
like Robinson Crusoe's servant Friday.
 -- Man of straw, a puppet; one who is controlled by others; also,
one who is not responsible pecuniarily.
 -- Man-of-the earth (Bot.), a twining plant (Ipomoea pandurata) with
leaves and flowers much like those of the morning-glory, but having
an immense tuberous farinaceous root.
 -- Man of war. (a) A warrior; a soldier. Shak. (b) (Naut.) See in
the Vocabulary.
 -- To be one's own man, to have command of one's self; not to be
subject to another.

MAN
Man, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Manned; p. pr. & vb. n. Manning.]

1. To supply with men; to furnish with a sufficient force or
complement of men, as for management, service, defense, or the like;
to guard; as, to man a ship, boat, or fort.
See how the surly Warwick mans the wall ! Shak.
They man their boats, and all their young men arm. Waller.

2. To furnish with strength for action; to prepare for efficiency; to
fortify. "Theodosius having manned his soul with proper reflections."
Addison.

3. To tame, as a hawk. [R.] Shak.

4. To furnish with a servants. [Obs.] Shak.

5. To wait on as a manservant. [Obs.] Shak.

Note: In "Othello," V. ii. 270, the meaning is uncertain, being,
perhaps: To point, to aim, or to manage. To man a yard (Naut.), to
send men upon a yard, as for furling or reefing a sail.
 -- To man the yards (Naut.), to station men on the yards as a salute
or mark of respect.

MANABLE
Man"a*ble, a.

Defn: Marriageable.[Obs.]

MANACE
Man"ace, n. & v.

Defn: Same as Menace. [Obs.]

MANACLE
Man"a*cle, n. Etym: [OE. manicle, OF. manicle, F. manicle sort glove,
manacle, L. manicula a little hand, dim. of manus hand; cf. L. manica
sleeve, manacle, fr.manus. See Manual.]

Defn: A handcuff; a shackle for the hand or wrist; -- usually in the
plural.
Doctrine unto fools is as fetters on the feet, and like manacles on
the right hand. Ecclus. xxi. 19.

MANACLE
Man"a*cle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Manacled; p. pr. & vb. n. Manacling.]

Defn: To put handcuffs or other fastening upon, for confining the
hands; to shackle; to confine; to restrain from the use of the limbs
or natural powers.
Is it thus you use this monarch, to manacle and shackle him hand and
foot Arbuthnot.

MANAGE
Man"age, n. Etym: [F. manège, It. maneggio, fr. maneggiare to manage,
fr. L.manushand. Perhaps somewhat influenced by F. ménage
housekeeping, OF. mesnage, akin to E. mansion. See Manual, and cf.
Manege.]

Defn: The handling or government of anything, but esp. of a horse;
management; administration. See Manege. [Obs.]
Young men, in the conduct and manage of actions, embrace more than
they can hold. Bacon.
Down, down I come; like glistering Phaëthon
Wanting the manage of unruly jades. Shak.
The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl. Shak.

Note: This word, in its limited sense of management of a horse, has
been displaced by manege; in its more general meaning, by management.

MANAGE
Man"age, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Managed; p. pr. & vb. n. Managing.]
Etym: [From Manage, n.]

1. To have under control and direction; to conduct; to guide; to
administer; to treat; to handle.
Long tubes are cumbersome, and scarce to be easily managed. Sir I.
Newton.
What wars Imanage, and what wreaths I gain. Prior.

2. Hence: Esp., to guide by careful or delicate treatment; to wield
with address; to make subservient by artful conduct; to bring around
cunningly to one's plans.
It was so much his interest to manage his Protestant subjects.
Addison
.
It was not her humor to manage those over whom she had gained an
ascendant. Bp. Hurd.

3. To train in the manege, as a horse; to exercise in graceful or
artful action.

4. To treat with care; to husband. Dryden.

5. To bring about; to contrive. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To direct; govern; control; wield; order; contrive; concert;
conduct; transact.

MANAGE
Man"age, v. i.

Defn: To direct affairs; to carry on business or affairs; to
administer.
Leave them to manage for thee. Dryden
.

MANAGEABILITY
Man`age*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being manageable; manageableness.

MANAGEABLE
Man"age*a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be managed or used; suffering control; governable;
tractable; subservient; as, a manageable horse.

Syn.
 -- Governable; tractable; controllable; docile.
 -- Man"age*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Man"age*a*bly, adv.

MANAGELESS
Man"age*less, a.

Defn: Unmanageable.[R.]

MANAGEMENT
Man"age*ment, n. Etym: [From Manage, v.]

1. The act or art of managing; the manner of treating, directing,
carrying on, or using, for a purpose; conduct; administration;
guidance; control; as, the management of a family or of a farm; the
management of state affairs. "The management of the voice." E.
Porter.

2. Business dealing; negotiation; arrangement.
He had great managements with ecclesiastics. Addison
.

3. Judicious use of means to accomplish an end; conduct directed by
art or address; skillful treatment; cunning practice; -- often in a
bad sense.
Mark with what management their tribes divide Some stick to you, and
some to t'other side. Dryden.

4. The collective body of those who manage or direct any enterprise
or interest; the board of managers.

Syn.
 -- Conduct; administration; government; direction; guidance; care;
charge; contrivance; intrigue.

MANAGER
Man"a*ger, n.

1. One who manages; a conductor or director; as, the manager of a
theater.
A skillful manager of the rabble. South.

2. A person who conducts business or household affairs with economy
and frugality; a good economist.
A prince of great aspiring thoughts; in the main, a manager of his
treasure. Sir W. Temple.

3. A contriver; an intriguer. Shak.

MANAGERIAL
Man`a*ge"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to management or a manager; as, managerial
qualities. "Managerial responsibility." C. Bronté.

MANAGERSHIP
Man"a*ger*ship, n.

Defn: The office or position of a manager.

MANAGERY
Man"age*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. menagerie, mesnagerie. See Manage, n.,
and cf. Menagerie.]

1. Management; manner of using; conduct; direction.

2. Husbandry; economy; frugality. Bp. Burnet.

MANAKIN
Man"a*kin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. & G. manakin; prob. the native name.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous small birds belonging to Pipra, Manacus,
and other genera of the family Pipridæ. They are mostly natives of
Central and South America. some are bright-colored, and others have
the wings and tail curiously ornamented. The name is sometimes
applied to related birds of other families.

MANAKIN
Man"a*kin, n.

Defn: A dwarf. See Manikin. Shak.

MANATEE
Man`a*tee", n. Etym: [Sp. manatí, from the native name in Hayti. Cf.
Lamantin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of Trichechus, a genus of sirenians; -- called
alsosea cow. [Written also manaty, manati.]

Note: One species (Trichechus Senegalensis) inhabits the west coast
of Africa; another (T. Americanus) inhabits the east coast of South
America, and the West-Indies. The Florida manatee (T. latirostris) is
by some considered a distinct species, by others it is thought to be
a variety of T. Americanus. It sometimes becomes fifteen feet or more
in length, and lives both in fresh and salt water. It is hunted for
its oil and flesh.

MANATION
Ma*na"tion, n.Etym: [L.manatio, fr. manare to flow.]

Defn: The act of issuing or flowing out. [Obs.]

MANBIRD
Man"bird`, n.

Defn: An aviator. [Colloq.]

MANBOTE
Man"bote`, n. Etym: [AS. man man, vassal + bot recompense.] (Anglo-
Saxon Law)

Defn: A sum paid to a lord as a pecuniary compensation for killing
his man (that is, his vassal, servant, or tenant). Spelman.

MANCA
Man"ca, n. Etym: [LL.]

Defn: See Mancus.

MANCHE
Manche, n. [Also maunch.] Etym: [F. manche, fr. L. manica. See
Manacle.]

Defn: A sleeve. [Obs.]

MANCHET
Man"chet, n.

Defn: Fine white bread; a loaf of fine bread. [Archaic] Bacon.
Tennyson.

MANCHINEEL
Man`chi*neel", n. Etym: [Sp. manzanillo, fr. manzana an apple, fr. L.
malum Matianum a kind of apple. So called from its apple-like fruit.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A euphorbiaceous tree (Hippomane Mancinella) of tropical
America, having a poisonous and blistering milky juice, and poisonous
acrid fruit somewhat resembling an apple. Bastard manchineel, a tree
(Cameraria latifolia) of the East Indies, having similar poisonous
properties. Lindley.

MANCHU
Man*chu", a. Etym: [Written also Manchoo, Mantchoo, etc.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Manchuria or its inhabitants.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Manchuria; also, the language spoken
by the Manchus.

MANCIPATE
Man"ci*pate, v. t. Etym: [L. mancipatus, p. p. of mancipare to sell.
Cf. Emancipate.]

Defn: To enslave; to bind; to restrict. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

MANCIPATION
Man`ci*pa"tion, n. Etym: [L. mancipatio a transfer.]

Defn: Slavery; involuntary servitude. [Obs.] Johnson.

MANCIPLE
Man"ci*ple, n. Etym: [From OF. mancipe slave, servant (with l
inserted, as in participle), fr. L. mancipium. See Mancipate.]

Defn: A steward; a purveyor, particularly of a college or Inn of
Court. Chaucer.

MANCONA BARK
Man*co"na bark`

Defn: . See Sassy bark.

MANCUS
Man"cus, n. Etym: [AS.]

Defn: An old Anglo Saxon coin both of gold and silver, and of
variously estimated values. The silver mancus was equal to about one
shilling of modern English money.

-MANCY
-man`cy. Etym: [Gr. -mancie.]

Defn: A combining form denoting divination; as, aleuromancy,
chiromancy, necromancy, etc.

MAND
Mand, n.

Defn: A demand. [Obs.] See Demand.

MANDAMUS
Man*da"mus, n. Etym: [L., we command, fr. mandare to command.] (Law)

Defn: A writ issued by a superior court and directed to some inferior
tribunal, or to some corporation or person exercising authority,
commanding the performance of some specified duty.

MANDARIN
Man`da*rin", n. Etym: [Pg. mandarim, from Malay mantri minister of
state, prop. a Hind. word, fr. Skr. mantrin a counselor, manira a
counsel, man to think.]

1. A Chinese public officer or nobleman; a civil or military official
in China and Annam.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A small orange, with easily separable rind. It is thought to be
of Chinese origin, and is counted a distinct species (Citrus
nobilis)mandarin orange; tangerine. Mandarin duck (Zoöl.), a
beautiful Asiatic duck (Dendronessa galericulata), often
domesticated, and regarded by the Chinese as an emblem of conjugal
affection.
 -- Mandarin language, the spoken or colloquial language of educated
people in China.
 -- Mandarin yellow (Chem.), an artificial aniline dyestuff used for
coloring silk and wool, and regarded as a complex derivative of
quinoline.

MANDARINATE
Man`da*rin"ate, n.

Defn: The collective body of officials or persons of rank in China.
S. W. Williams.

MANDARINIC
Man`da*rin"ic, a.

Defn: Appropriate or peculiar to a mandarin.

MANDARINING
Man`da*rin"ing, n. (Dyeing)

Defn: The process of giving an orange color to goods formed of animal
tissue, as silk or wool, not by coloring matter, but by producing a
certain change in the fiber by the action of dilute nitric acid.
Tomlinson.

MANDARINISM
Man`da*rin"ism, n.

Defn: A government mandarins; character or spirit of the mandarins.
F. Lieder.

MANDATARY
Man"da*ta*ry, n. Etym: [L. mandatarius, fr. mandatum a charge,
commission, order: cf. F. mandataire. See Mandate.]

1. One to whom a command or charge is given; hence, specifically, a
person to whom the pope has, by his prerogative, given a mandate or
order for his benefice. Ayliffe.

2. (Law)

Defn: One who undertakes to discharge a specific business commission;
a mandatory. Wharton.

MANDATE
Man"date, n. Etym: [L. mandatum, fr. mandare to commit to one's
charge, order, orig., to put into one's hand; manus hand + dare to
give: cf. F. mandat. See Manual, Date a time, and cf. Commend, Maundy
Thursday.]

1. An official or authoritative command; an order or injunction; a
commission; a judicial precept.
This dream all-powerful Juno; I bear Her mighty mandates, and her
words you hear. Dryden.

2. (Canon Law)

Defn: A rescript of the pope, commanding an ordinary collator to put
the person therein named in possession of the first vacant benefice
in his collation.

3. (Scots Law)

Defn: A contract by which one employs another to manage any business
for him. By the Roman law, it must have been gratuitous. Erskine.

MANDATOR
Man*da"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. A director; one who gives a mandate or order. Ayliffe.

2. (Rom. Law)

Defn: The person who employs another to perform a mandate. Bouvier.

MANDATORY
Man"da*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. mandatorius.]

Defn: Containing a command; preceptive; directory.

MANDATORY
Man"da*to*ry, n.

Defn: Same as Mandatary.

MANDELATE
Man"del*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of mandelic acid.

MANDELIC
Man*del"ic, a. Etym: [G. mandel almond.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to an acid first obtained from benzoic aldehyde (oil
of better almonds), as a white crystalline substance; -- called also
phenyl glycolic acid.

MANDER
Man"der, v. t. & i.

Defn: See Maunder.

MANDERIL
Man"der*il, n.

Defn: A mandrel.

MANDIBLE
Man"di*ble, n. Etym: [L. mandibula, mandibulum, fr. mandere to chew.
Cf. Manger.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The bone, or principal bone, of the lower jaw; the inferior
maxilla; -- also applied to either the upper or the lower jaw in the
beak of birds.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The anterior pair of mouth organs of insects, crustaceaus, and
related animals, whether adapted for biting or not. See Illust. of
Diptera.

MANDIBULAR
Man*dib"u*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mandibulaire.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a mandible; like a mandible.
 -- n.

Defn: The principal mandibular bone; the mandible. Mandibular arch
(Anat.), the most anterior visceral arch, -- that in which the
mandible is developed.

MANDIBULATE; MANDIBULATED
Man*dib"u*late, Man*dib"u*la`ted, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Provided with mandibles adapted for biting, as many insects.

MANDIBULATE
Man*dib"u*late, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect having mandibles.

MANDIBULIFORM
Man`di*bu"li*form, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the form of a mandible; -- said especially of the
maxillæ of an insect when hard and adapted for biting.

MANDIBULOHYOID
Man*dib`u*lo*hy"oid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining both to the mandibular and the hyoid arch, or
situated between them.

MANDIL
Man"dil, n. Etym: [OF. mandil; cf. Sp. & Pg. mandil a coarse apron, a
haircloth; all from Ar. mandil tablecloth, handkerchief, mantle, fr.
LGr. mantile, mantele. See Mantle.]

Defn: A loose outer garment worn the 16th and 17th centuries.

MANDILION
Man*dil"ion, n.

Defn: See Mandil. Chapman.

MANDINGOS
Man*din"gos, n. pl.

Defn: ; sing. Mandingo. (Ethnol.) An extensive and powerful tribe of
West African negroes.

MANDIOC; MANDIOCA
Man"di*oc, Man`di*o"ca, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Manioc.

MANDLESTONE
Man"dle*stone`, n. Etym: [G. mandelstein almond stone.] (Min.)

Defn: Amygdaloid.

MANDMENT
Mand"ment, n.

Defn: Commandment. [Obs.]

MANDOLA
Man*do"la, n. [It. See Mandolin.] (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument closely resembling the mandolin, but of larger
size and tuned lower.

MANDOLIN; MANDOLINE
Man"do*lin, Man"do*line, n. Etym: [F. mandoline, It. mandolino, dim.
of mandola, fr. L. pandura. See Bandore.] (Mus.)

Defn: A small and beautifully shaped instrument resembling the lute.

MANDORE
Man"dore, n. Etym: [See Mandolin, and Bandore.] (Mus.)

Defn: A kind of four-stringed lute.

MANDRAGORA
Man*drag"o*ra, n. Etym: [L., mandragoras the mandrake.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants; the mandrake. See Mandrake, 1.

MANDRAGORITE
Man*drag"o*rite, n.

Defn: One who habitually intoxicates himself with a narcotic obtained
from mandrake.

MANDRAKE
Man"drake, n. Etym: [AS. mandragora, L. mandragoras, fr. Gr.
mandragore.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A low plant (Mandragora officinarum) of the Nightshade family,
having a fleshy root, often forked, and supposed to resemble a man.
It was therefore supposed to have animal life, and to cry out when
pulled up. All parts of the plant are strongly narcotic. It is found
in the Mediterranean region.
And shrieks like mandrakes, torn out of the earth, That living
mortals, hearing them, run mad. Shak.

Note: The mandrake of Scripture was perhaps the same plant, but proof
is wanting.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The May apple (Podophyllum peltatum). See May apple under May,
and Podophyllum. [U.S.]

MANDREL
Man"drel, n. Etym: [F. mandrin, prob. through (assumed) LL.
mamphurinum, fr. L. mamphur a bow drill.] (Mach.)
(a) A bar of metal inserted in the work to shape it, or to hold it,
as in a lathe, during the process of manufacture; an arbor.
(b) The live spindle of a turning lathe; the revolving arbor of a
circular saw. It is usually driven by a pulley. [Written also
manderil.] Mandrel lathe, a lathe with a stout spindle, adapted esp.
for chucking, as for forming hollow articles by turning or spinning.

MANDRILL
Man"drill, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mandrille, Sp. mandril, It. mandrillo;
prob. the native name in Africa. Cf. Drill an ape.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: a large West African baboon (Cynocephalus, or Papio, mormon).
The adult male has, on the sides of the nose, large, naked, grooved
swellings, conspicuously striped with blue and red.

MANDUCABLE
Man"du*ca*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. manducable. See Manducate.]

Defn: Such as can be chewed; fit to be eaten. [R.]
Any manducable creature. Sir T. Herbert.

MANDUCATE
Man"du*cate v. t. [imp. & p. p. Manducated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Manducating.] Etym: [L. manducatus, p. p. of manducare to chew. See
Manger.]

Defn: To masticate; to chew; to eat. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

MANDUCATION
Man`du*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. manducatio: cf. F. manducation.]

Defn: The act of chewing. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

MANDUCATORY
Man"du*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or employed in, chewing.

MANDUCUS
Man*du"cus, n. Etym: [L., fr. manducare to chew.] (Gr. & Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A grotesque mask, representing a person chewing or grimacing,
worn in processions and by comic actors on the stage.

MANE
Mane, n. Etym: [AS. manu; akin to OD. mane, D. maan, G. mähne, OHG.
mana, Icel. mön, Dan. & Sw. man, AS. mene necklace, Icel. men, L.
monile, Gr. manya neck muscles. sq. root275.]

Defn: The long and heavy hair growing on the upper side of, or about,
the neck of some quadrupedal animals, as the horse, the lion, etc.
See Illust. of Horse.

MAN-EATER
Man"-eat`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One who, or that which, has an appetite for human flesh;
specifically, one of certain large sharks (esp. Carcharodon
Rondeleti); also, a lion or a tiger which has acquired the habit of
feeding upon human flesh.

MANED
Maned, a.

Defn: Having a mane. Maned seal (Zoöl.), the sea lion.
 -- Maned sheep (Zoöl.), the aoudad.

MANEGE
Ma*nege", n. Etym: [F. manège. See Manage, n.]

1. Art of horsemanship, or of training horses

2. A school for teaching horsemanship, and for training horses.
Chesterfield.

MANEH
Ma"neh, n. Etym: [Heb. maneh.]

Defn: A Hebrew weight for gold or silver, being one hundred shekels
of gold and sixty shekels of silver. Ezek. xlv. 12.

MANELESS
Mane"less, a.

Defn: Having no mane. Maneless lion (Zoöl.), a variety of the lion
having a short, inconspicuous mane. It inhabits Arabia and adjacent
countries.

MANEQUIN
Man"e*quin, n. Etym: [See Manikin.]

Defn: An artist's model of wood or other material.

MANERIAL
Ma*ne"ri*al, a.

Defn: See Manorial.

MANES
Ma"nes, n. pl. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: The benevolent spirits of the dead, especially of dead
ancestors, regarded as family deities and protectors.
Hail, O ye holy manes! Dryden.

MANESHEET
Mane"sheet`, n.

Defn: A covering placed over the upper part of a horse's head.

MANEUVER; MANOEUVRE
Ma*neu"ver, Ma*noeu"vre, n. Etym: [F. manoeuvre, OF. manuevre, LL.
manopera, lit., hand work, manual labor; L.manus hand + opera, fr.
opus work. See Manual, Operate, and cf. Mainor, Manure.]

1. Management; dexterous movement; specif., a military or naval
evolution, movement, or change of position.

2. Management with address or artful design; adroit proceeding;
stratagem.

MANEUVER; MANOEUVRE
Ma*neu"ver, Ma*noeu"vre, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Maneuvered or
Manoeuvred; p. pr. & vb. n. Maneuvering (, or Manoeuvring (.] Etym:
[Cf. F. manoeuvrer. See Maneuver, n.]

1. To perform a movement or movements in military or naval tactics;
to make changes in position with reference to getting advantage in
attack or defense.

2. To manage with address or art; to scheme.

MANEUVER; MANOEUVRE
Ma*neu"ver, Ma*noeu"vre, v. t.

Defn: To change the positions of, as of troops of ships.

MANEUVERER; MANOEUVRER
Ma*neu"ver*er, Ma*noeu"vrer, n.

Defn: One who maneuvers.
This charming widow Beaumont is a nanoeuvrer. We can't well make an
English word of it. Miss Edgeworth.

MANFUL
Man"ful, a.

Defn: Showing manliness, or manly spirit; hence, brave, courageous,
resolute, noble. " Manful hardiness." Chaucer.
 -- Man"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Man"ful*ness, n.

MANGABEY
Man"ga*bey, n. Etym: [So called by Buffon from Mangaby, in
Madagascar, where he erroneously supposed them be native.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several African monkeys of the genus Cercocebus, as
the sooty mangabey (C. fuliginosus), which is sooty black. [Also
written mangaby.]

MANGAN
Man"gan, n.

Defn: See Mangonel.

MANGANATE
Man"ga*nate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. manganate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of manganic acid.

Note: The manganates are usually green, and are wellknown compounds,
though derived from a hypothetical acid.

MANGANESATE
Man`ga*ne"sate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A manganate. [Obs.]

MANGANESE
Man`ga*nese", n. Etym: [F. manganèse, It. mamaganese, sasso magnesio;
prob. corrupted from L. magnes, because of its resemblance to the
magnet. See Magnet, and cf. Magnesia.] (Chem.)

Defn: An element obtained by reduction of its oxide, as a hard,
grayish white metal, fusible with difficulty, but easily oxidized.
Its ores occur abundantly in nature as the minerals pyrolusite,
manganite, etc. Symbol Mn. Atomic weight 54.8.

Note: An alloy of manganese with iron (called ferromanganese) is used
to increase the density and hardness of steel. Black oxide of
manganese, Manganese dioxide or peroxide, or Black manganese (Chem.),
a heavy black powder MnO2, occurring native as the mineral
pyrolusite, and valuable as a strong oxidizer; -- called also
familiarly manganese. It colors glass violet, and is used as a
decolorizer to remove the green tint of impure glass. Manganese
bronze, an alloy made by adding from one to two per cent of manganese
to the copper and zinc used in brass.

MANGANESE STEEL
Man`ga*nese" steel.

Defn: Cast steel containing a considerable percentage of manganese,
which makes it very hard and tough. See Alloy steel, above.

MANGANESIAN
Man`ga*ne"sian, a. Etym: [Cf. F. manganésien.] (Chem.)

Defn: Manganic. [R.]

MANGANESIC
Man`ga*ne"sic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. manganésique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Manganic. [Obs.]

MANGANESIOUS
Man`ga*ne"sious, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Manganous.

MANGANESIUM
Man`ga*ne"si*um, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Manganese.

MANGANESOUS
Man`ga*ne"sous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Manganous.

MANGANIC
Man`gan"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. manganique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to resembling, or containing, manganese;
specif., designating compounds in which manganese has a higher
valence as contrasted with manganous compounds. Cf. Manganous.
Manganic acid, an acid, H2MnO4, formed from manganese, analogous to
sulphuric acid.

MANGANIFEROUS
Man`ga*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Manganese + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing manganese.

MANGANITE
Man"ga*nite, n.

1. (Min.)

Defn: One of the oxides of manganese; -- called also gray manganese
ore. It occurs in brilliant steel-gray or iron-black crystals, also
massive.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of manganese dioxide with a metallic oxide; so
called as though derived from the hypothetical manganous acid.

MANGANIUM
Man*ga"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Manganese.

MANGANOUS
Man"ga*nous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, designating, those compounds of manganese in
which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with manganic
compounds; as, manganous oxide. Manganous acid, a hypothetical
compound analogous to sulphurous acid, and forming the so-called
manganites.

MANGCORN
Mang"corn`, n. Etym: [OE. mengen to mix. See Mingle, and Corn.]

Defn: A mixture of wheat and rye, or other species of grain. [Prov
Eng.]

MANGE
Mange, n. Etym: [See Mangy.] (Vet.)

Defn: The scab or itch in cattle, dogs, and other beasts. Mange
insect (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small parasitic mites,
which burrow in the skin of cattle. horses, dogs, and other animals,
causing the mange. The mange insect of the horse (Psoroptes, or
Dermatodectes, equi), and that of cattle (Symbiotes, or
Dermatophagys, bovis) are the most important species. See Acarina.

MANGEL-WURZEL
Man"gel-wur`zel, n. Etym: [G., corrupted fr. mangoldwurzel; mangold
beet + wurzel root.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of large field beet (B. macrorhiza), used as food for
cattle, -- by some considered a mere variety of the ordinary beet.
See Beet. [Written also mangold-wurzel.]

MANGER
Man"ger, n. Etym: [F. mangeoire, fr. manger to eat, fr. L. manducare,
fr. mandere to chew. Cf. Mandible, Manducate.]

1. A trough or open box in which fodder is placed for horses or
cattle to eat.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The fore part of the deck, having a bulkhead athwart ships high
enough to prevent water which enters the hawse holes from running
over it.

MANGILY
Man"gi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mangy manner; scabbily.

MANGINESS
Man"gi*ness, n. Etym: [From Mangy.]

Defn: The condition or quality of being mangy.

MANGLE
Man"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mangled; p. pr. & vb. n. Mangling.]
Etym: [A frequentative fr. OE. manken to main, AS. mancian, in
bemancian to mutilate, fr. L. mancus maimed; perh. akin to G. mangeln
to be wanting.]

1. To cut or bruise with repeated blows or strokes, making a ragged
or torn wound, or covering with wounds; to tear in cutting; to cut in
a bungling manner; to lacerate; to mutilate.
Mangled with ghastly wounds through plate and mail. Milton.

2. To mutilate or injure, in making, doing, or pertaining; as, to
mangle a piece of music or a recitation.
To mangle a play or a novel. Swift.

MANGLE
Man"gle, n. Etym: [D. mangel, fr. OE. mangonel a machine for throwing
stones, LL. manganum, Gr. Mangonel.]

Defn: A machine for smoothing linen or cotton cloth, as sheets,
tablecloths, napkins, and clothing, by roller pressure. Mangle rack
(Mach.), a contrivance for converting continuous circular motion into
reciprocating rectilinear motion, by means of a rack and pinion, as
in the mangle. The pinion is held to the rack by a groove in such a
manner that it passes alternately from one side of the rack to the
other, and thus gives motion to it in opposite directions, according
to the side in which its teeth are engaged.
 -- Mangle wheel, a wheel in which the teeth, or pins, on its face,
are interrupted on one side, and the pinion, working in them, passes
from inside to outside of the teeth alternately, thus converting the
continuous circular motion of the pinion into a reciprocating
circular motion of the wheel.

MANGLE
Man"gle, v. t. Etym: [Cf. D. mangelen. See Mangle, n.]

Defn: To smooth with a mangle, as damp linen or cloth.

MANGLER
Man"gler, n. Etym: [See 1st Mangle.]

Defn: One who mangles or tears in cutting; one who mutilates any work
in doing it.

MANGLER
Man"gler, n. Etym: [See 3d Mangle.]

Defn: One who smooths with a mangle.

MANGO
Man"go, n.; pl. Mangoes. Etym: [Pg. manga, fr. Tamil mankay.]

1. The fruit of the mango tree. It is rather larger than an apple,
and of an ovoid shape. Some varieties are fleshy and luscious, and
others tough and tasting of turpentine. The green fruit is pickled
for market.

2. A green muskmelon stuffed and pickled. Mango bird (Zoöl.), an
oriole (Oriolus kundoo), native of India.
 -- Mango fish (Zoöl.), a fish of the Ganges (Polynemus risua),
highly esteemed for food. It has several long, slender filaments
below the pectoral fins. It appears about the same time with the
mango fruit, in April and May, whence the name.
 -- Mango tree (Bot.), an East Indian tree of the genus Mangifera (M.
Indica), related to the cashew and the sumac. It grows to a large
size, and produces the mango of commerce. It is now cultivated in
tropical America.

MANGOLDWURZEL
Man"gold*wur`zel, n. Etym: [G.] (Bot.)

Defn: See Mangel-wurzel.

MANGONEL
Man"go*nel, n. Etym: [OF. mangonel, LL. manganellus, manganum, fr.
Gr. Mangle, n.]

Defn: A military engine formerly used for throwing stones and
javelins.

MANGONISM
Man"go*nism, n.

Defn: The art of mangonizing, or setting off to advantage. [Obs.]

MANGONIST
Man"go*nist, n.

1. One who mangonizes. (Zoöl.)

2. A slave dealer; also, a strumpet. [Obs.]

MANGONIZE
Man"go*nize, v. t. Etym: [L. mangonizare, fr. mango a dealer in
slaves or wares, to which he tries to give an appearance of greater
value by decking them out or furbishing them up.]

Defn: To furbish up for sale; to set off to advantage. [Obs. or R.]
B. Jonson.

MANGOSTEEN; MANGOSTAN
Man"go*steen, Man"go*stan, n. Etym: [Malay mangusta, mangis.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree of the East Indies of the genus Garcinia (G.
Mangostana). The tree grows to the height of eighteen feet, and bears
fruit also called mangosteen, of the size of a small apple, the pulp
of which is very delicious food.

MANGROVE
Man"grove, n. Etym: [Malay manggi-manggi.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of one or two trees of the genus Rhizophora (R.
Mangle, and R. mucronata, the last doubtfully distinct) inhabiting
muddy shores of tropical regions, where they spread by emitting
aërial roots, which fasten in the saline mire and eventually become
new stems. The seeds also send down a strong root while yet attached
to the parent plant.

Note: The fruit has a ruddy brown shell, and a delicate white pulp
which is sweet and eatable. The bark is astringent, and is used for
tanning leather. The black and the white mangrove (Avicennia nitida
and A. tomentosa) have much the same habit.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The mango fish.

MANGUE
Mangue, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The kusimanse.

MANGY
Man"gy, a. [Compar. Mangier; superl. Mangiest.] Etym: [F. mangé, p.
p. of manger to eat. See Manger.]

Defn: Infected with the mange; scabby.

MANHADEN
Man*ha"den, n.

Defn: See Menhaden.

MANHANDLE
Man*han"dle, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -handled; p. pr. & vb. n. -
handling.]

1. To move, or manage, by human force without mechanical aid; as, to
manhandle a cannon.

2.  To handle roughly; as, the captive was manhandled.

MANHEAD
Man"head, n.

Defn: Manhood. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MANHES PROCESS
Man`hès" proc"ess. (Copper Metal.)

Defn: A process by which copper matte is treated by passing through
it a blast of air, to oxidize and remove sulphur. It is analogous in
apparatus to the Bessemer process for decarbonizing cast iron. So
called from Pierre Manhès, a French metallurgist, who invented it.

MANHOLE
Man"hole`, n.

Defn: A hole through which a man may descend or creep into a drain,
sewer, steam boiler, parts of machinery, etc., for cleaning or
repairing.

MANHOOD
Man"hood, n. Etym: [Man- + -hood.]

1. The state of being man as a human being, or man as distinguished
from a child or a woman.

2. Manly quality; courage; bravery; resolution.
I am ashamed That thou hast power to shake my manhood thus. Shak.

MANIA
Ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [L. mania, Gr. manie, F. manie. Cf. Mind, n.,
Necromancy.]

1. Violent derangement of mind; madness; insanity. Cf. Delirium.

2. Excessive or unreasonable desire; insane passion affecting one or
many people; as, the tulip mania. Mania a potu Etym: [L.], madness
from drinking; delirium tremens.

Syn.
 -- Insanity; derangement; madness; lunacy; alienation; aberration;
delirium; frenzy. See Insanity.

MANIABLE
Man"i*a*ble, a. Etym: [F., fr. manier to manage, fr. L. manus hand.]

Defn: Manageable. [Obs.] Bacon.

MANIAC
Ma"ni*ac, a. Etym: [F. maniaque. See Mania.]

Defn: Raving with madness; raging with disordered intellect; affected
with mania; mad.

MANIAC
Ma"ni*ac, n.

Defn: A raving lunatic; a madman.

MANIACAL
Ma*ni"a*cal, a.

Defn: Affected with, or characterized by, madness; maniac.
 -- Ma*ni"a*cal*ly, adv.

MANIC
Man"ic, a. [Gr.  mad, frenzied.] (Med.)

Defn: Of or pert. to, or characterized by, mania, or excitement.

MANICATE
Man"i*cate, a. Etym: [L. manicatus sleeved, fr. manica a sleeve.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Covered with hairs or pubescence so platted together and
interwoven as to form a mass easily removed.

MANICHAEAN; MANICHEAN; MANICHEE
Man`i*chæ"an, Man`i*che"an, Man"i*chee, n. Etym: [LL. Manichaeus: cf.
F. manichéen.]

Defn: A believer in the doctrines of Manes, a Persian of the third
century A. D., who taught a dualism in which Light is regarded as the
source of Good, and Darkness as the source of Evil.
The Manichæans stand as representatives of dualism pushed to its
utmost development. Tylor.

MANICHAEAN; MANICHEAN
Man`i*chæ"an, Man`i*che"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Manichæans.

MANICHAEISM; MANICHEISM
Man"i*chæ*ism, Man"i*che*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. manichéisme.]

Defn: The doctrines taught, or system of principles maintained, by
the Manichæans.

MANICHEIST
Man"i*che*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. manichéiste.]

Defn: Manichæan.

MANICHORD; MANICHORDON
Man"i*chord, Man`i*chor"don, Etym: [L. monochordon, Gr. Monochord.]
(Mus.)

Defn: The clavichord or clarichord; -- called also dumb spinet.

MANICURE
Man"i*cure, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. manus hand + curare to cure.]

Defn: A person who makes a business of taking care of people's hands,
especially their nails.
[Men] who had taken good care of their hands by wearing gloves and
availing themselves of the services of a manicure. Pop. Sci. Monthly.

MANID
Ma"nid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of the genus Manis, or family Manidæ.

MANIE
Ma`nie", n. Etym: [F. See Mania.]

Defn: Mania; insanity. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MANIFEST
Man"i*fest, a. Etym: [F. manifeste, L. manifestus, lit., struck by
the hand, hence, palpable; manus hand + fendere (in comp.) to strike.
See Manual, and Defend.]

1. Evident to the senses, esp. to the sight; apparent; distinctly
perceived; hence, obvious to the understanding; apparent to the mind;
easily apprehensible; plain; not obscure or hidden.
Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight. Heb.
iv. 13.
That which may be known of God is manifest in them. Rom. i. 19.
Thus manifest to sight the god appeared. Dryden.

2. Detected; convicted; -- with of. [R.]
Calistho there stood manifest of shame. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Open; clear; apparent; evident; visible; conspicuous; plain;
obvious.
 -- Manifest, Clear, Plain, Obvious, Evident. What is clear can be
seen readily; what is obvious lies directly in our way, and
necessarily arrests our attention; what isevident is seen so clearly
as to remove doubt; what is manifest is very distinctly evident.
So clear, so shining, and so evident, That it will glimmer through a
blind man's eye. Shak.
Entertained with solitude, Where obvious duty erMilton.
I saw, I saw him manifest in view, His voice, his figure, and his
gesture knew. Dryden.

MANIFEST
Man"i*fest, n.; pl. Manifests. Etym: [Cf. F. manifeste. See Manifest,
a., and cf. Manifesto.]

1. A public declaration; an open statement; a manifesto. See
Manifesto. [Obs.]

2. A list or invoice of a ship's cargo, containing a description by
marks, numbers, etc., of each package of goods, to be exhibited at
the customhouse. Bouvier.

MANIFEST
Man"i*fest, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Manifested; p. pr. & vb. n.
Manifesting.]

1. To show plainly; to make to appear distinctly, -- usually to the
mind; to put beyond question or doubt; to display; to exhibit.
There is nothing hid which shall not be manifested. Mark iv. 22.
Thy life did manifest thou lovedst me not. Shak.

2. To exhibit the manifests or prepared invoices of; to declare at
the customhouse.

Syn.
 -- To reveal; declare; evince; make known; disclose; discover;
display.

MANIFESTABLE
Man"i*fest`a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be manifested.

MANIFESTATION
Man`i*fes*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. manifestatio: cf. F. manifestation.]

Defn: The act of manifesting or disclosing, or the state of being
manifested; discovery to the eye or to the understanding; also, that
which manifests; exhibition; display; revelation; as, the
manifestation of God's power in creation.
The secret manner in which acts of mercy ought to be performed,
requires this public manifestation of them at the great day.
Atterbury.

MANIFESTIBLE
Man"i*fest`i*ble, a.

Defn: Manifestable.

MANIFESTLY
Man"i*fest*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manifest manner.

MANIFESTNESS
Man"i*fest*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being manifest; obviousness.

MANIFESTO
Man`i*fes"to, n.; pl. Manifestoes. Etym: [It. manifesto. See
Manifest, n. & a.]

Defn: A public declaration, usually of a prince, sovereign, or other
person claiming large powers, showing his intentions, or proclaiming
his opinions and motives in reference to some act done or
contemplated by him; as, a manifesto declaring the purpose of a
prince to begin war, and explaining his motives. Bouvier.
it was proposed to draw up a manifesto, setting forth the grounds and
motives of our taking arms. Addison
.
Frederick, in a public manifesto, appealed to the Empire against the
insolent pretensions of the pope. Milman.

MANIFOLD
Man"i*fold, a. Etym: [AS. manigfeald. See Many, and Fold.]

1. Various in kind or quality; many in number; numerous; multiplied;
complicated.
O Lord, how manifold are thy works! Ps. civ. 24.
I know your manifold transgressions. Amos v. 12.

2. Exhibited at divers times or in various ways; -- used to qualify
nouns in the singular number. "The manifold wisdom of God." Eph. iii.
10. "The manifold grace of God." 1 Pet. iv. 10. Manifold writing, a
process or method by which several copies, as of a letter, are
simultaneously made, sheets of coloring paper being infolded with
thin sheets of plain paper upon which the marks made by a stylus or a
type-writer are transferred.

MANIFOLD
Man"i*fold, n.

1. A copy of a writing made by the manifold process.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: A cylindrical pipe fitting, having a number of lateral outlets,
for connecting one pipe with several others.

3. pl.

Defn: The third stomach of a ruminant animal. [Local, U.S.]

MANIFOLD
Man"i*fold, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Manifolded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Manifolding.]

Defn: To take copies of by the process of manifold writing; as, to
manifold a letter.

MANIFOLDED
Man"i*fold`ed, a.

Defn: Having many folds, layers, or plates; as, a manifolded shield.
[Obs.]

MANIFOLDLY
Man"i*fold`ly, adv.

Defn: In a manifold manner.

MANIFOLDNESS
Man"i*fold`ness, n.

1. Multiplicity. Sherwood.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A generalized concept of magnitude.

MANIFORM
Man"i*form, a. Etym: [L. manus hand + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like the hand.

MANIGLION
Ma*ni"glion, n. Etym: [It. maniglio, maniglia, bracelet, handle. Cf.
Manilio.] (Gun.)

Defn: Either one of two handles on the back of a piece of ordnance.

MANIHOC; MANIHOT
Man"i*hoc, Man"i*hot, n.

Defn: See Manioc.

MANIKIN
Man"i*kin, n. Etym: [OD. manneken, dim. of man man. See Man, and -
kin.]

1. A little man; a dwarf; a pygmy; a manakin.

2. A model of the human body, made of papier-mache or other material,
commonly in detachable pieces, for exhibiting the different parts and
organs, their relative position, etc.

MANILA; MANILLA
Ma*nil"a, Ma*nil"la, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Manila or Manilla, the capital of the
Philippine Islands; made in, or exported from, that city. Manila
cheroot or cigar, a cheroot or cigar made of tobacco grown in the
Philippine Islands.
 -- Manila hemp, a fibrous material obtained from the Musa textilis,
a plant allied to the banana, growing in the Philippine and other
East India islands; -- called also by the native name abaca. From it
matting, canvas, ropes, and cables are made.
 -- Manila paper, a durable brown or buff paper made of Manila hemp,
used as a wrapping paper, and as a cheap printing and writing paper.
The name is also given to inferior papers, made of other fiber.

MANILIO
Ma*nil"io, n.

Defn: See Manilla, 1. Sir T. Herbert.

MANILLA
Ma*nil"la, n. Etym: [Sp. manilla; cf. It. maniglio, maniglia; F.
manille; Pg. manilha; all fr. L. manus hand, and formed after the
analogy of L. monile, pl. monilia, necklace: cf. F. manille.]

1. A ring worn upon the arm or leg as an ornament, especially among
the tribes of Africa.

2. A piece of copper of the shape of a horseshoe, used as money by
certain tribes of the west coast of Africa. Simmonds.

MANILLA
Ma*nil"la, a.

Defn: Same as Manila.

MANILLE
Ma*nille", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See 1st Manilla, 1.

MANIOC
Ma"ni*oc, n. Etym: [Pg. mandioca, fr. Braz.] (Bot.)

Defn: The tropical plants (Manihot utilissima, and M. Aipi), from
which cassava and tapioca are prepared; also, cassava.[Written also
mandioc, manihoc, manihot.]

MANIPLE
Man"i*ple, n. Etym: [L. manipulus, maniplus, a handful, a certain
number of soldiers; manus hand + root of plere to fill, plenus full:
cf. F.maniple. See Manual, and Full, a.]

1. A handful. [R.] B. Jonson.

2. A division of the Roman army numbering sixty men exclusive of
officers, any small body of soldiers; a company. Milton.

3. Originally, a napkin; later, an ornamental band or scarf worn upon
the left arm as a part of the vestments of a priest in the Roman
Catholic Church. It is sometimes worn in the English Church service.

MANIPULAR
Ma*nip"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. manipularis: cf. F. manipulaire.]

1. Of or pertaining to the maniple, or company.

2. Manipulatory; as, manipular operations.

MANIPULATE
Ma*nip"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Manipulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Manipulating.] Etym: [LL. manipulatus, p. p. of manipulare to lead by
the hand, fr. L. manipulus. See Maniple.]

1. To treat, work, or operate with the hands, especially when
knowledge and dexterity are required; to manage in hand work; to
handle; as, to manipulate scientific apparatus.

2. To control the action of, by management; as, to manipulate a
convention of delegates; to manipulate the stock market; also, to
manage artfully or fraudulently; as, to manipulate accounts, or
election returns.

MANIPULATE
Ma*nip"u*late, v. i.

Defn: To use the hands in dexterous operations; to do hand work;
specifically, to manage the apparatus or instruments used in
scientific work, or in artistic or mechanical processes; also,
specifically, to use the hand in mesmeric operations.

MANIPULATION
Ma*nip`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. manipulation.]

1. The act or process of manipulating, or the state of being
manipulated; the act of handling work by hand; use of the hands, in
an artistic or skillful manner, in science or art.
Manipulation is to the chemist like the external senses to the mind.
Whewell.

2. The use of the hands in mesmeric operations.

3. Artful management; as, the manipulation of political bodies;
sometimes, a management or treatment for purposes of deception or
fraud.

MANIPULATIVE
Ma*nip"u*la*tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to manipulation; performed by manipulation.

MANIPULATOR
Ma*nip"u*la`tor, n.

Defn: One who manipulates

MANIPULATORY
Ma*nip"u*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to manipulation.

MANIS
Ma"nis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. manes the ghosts or shades of the dead.
So called from its dismal appearance, and because it seeks for its
food by night.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of edentates, covered with large, hard, triangular
scales, with sharp edges that overlap each other like tiles on a
roof. They inhabit the warmest parts of Asia and Africa, and feed on
ants. Called also Scaly anteater. See Pangolin.

MANITO; MANITOU; MANITU
Man"i*to, Man"i*tou, Man"i*tu, n.

Defn: A name given by tribes of American Indians to a great spirit,
whether good or evil, or to any object of worship. Tylor.
Gitche Manito the mighty, The Great Spirit, the creator, Smiled upon
his helpless children! Longfellow.
Mitche Manito the mighty, He the dreadful Spirit of Evil, As a
serpent was depicted. Longfellow.

MANITRUNK
Man"i*trunk, n. Etym: [L. manus hand + E. trunk.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The anterior segment of the thorax in insects. See Insect.

MANKIND
Man`kind", n. Etym: [AS. mancynn. See Kin kindred, Kind, n.]

1. The human race; man, taken collectively.
The proper study of mankind is man. Pore.

2. Men, as distinguished from women; the male portion of human race.
Lev. xviii. 22.

3. Human feelings; humanity. [Obs] B. Jonson.

MANKIND
Man"kind`, a.

Defn: Manlike; not womanly; masculine; bold; cruel. [Obs]
Are women grown so mankind Must they be wooing Beau. & Fl.
Be not too mankind against your wife. Chapman.

MANKS
Manks, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the language or people of the of Man.
 -- n.

Defn: The language spoken in the Isle of Man. See Manx.

MANLESS
Man"less, a.

1. Destitute of men. Bakon.

2. Unmanly; inhuman. [Obs.] Chapman.

MANLESSLY
Man"less*ly, adv.

Defn: Inhumanly. [Obs.]

MANLIKE
Man"like`, a. Etym: [Man + like. Cf. Manly.]

Defn: Like man, or like a man, in form or nature; having the
qualities of a man, esp. the nobler qualities; manly. " Gentle,
manlike speech." Testament of Love. " A right manlike man." Sir P.
Sidney.
In glaring Chloe's manlike taste and mien. Shenstone.

MANLINESS
Man"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being manly.

MANLING
Man"ling, n.

Defn: A little man. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

MANLY
Man"ly, a. [Compar. Manlier; superl. Manliest.] Etym: [Man + -ly. Cf.
Manlike.]

Defn: Having qualities becoming to a man; not childish or womanish;
manlike, esp. brave, courageous, resolute, noble.
Let's briefly put on manly readiness. Shak.
Serene and manly, hardened to sustain The load of life. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Bold; daring; brave; courageous; firm; undaunted; hardy;
dignified; stately.

MANLY
Man"ly, adv.

Defn: In a manly manner; with the courage and fortitude of a manly
man; as, to act manly.

MANNA
Man"na, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. man; cf. Ar. mann, properly, gift (of
heaven).]

1. (Script.)

Defn: The food supplied to the Israelites in their journey through
the wilderness of Arabia; hence, divinely supplied food. Ex. xvi. 15.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to lichens of the genus Lecanora, sometimes blown
into heaps in the deserts of Arabia and Africa, and gathered and used
as food.

3. (Bot. & Med.)

Defn: A sweetish exudation in the form of pale yellow friable flakes,
coming from several trees and shrubs and used in medicine as a gentle
laxative, as the secretion of Fraxinus Ornus, and F. rotundifolia,
the manna ashes of Southern Europe.

Note: Persian manna is the secretion of the camel's thorn (see
Camel's thorn, under Camel); Tamarisk manna, that of the Tamarisk
mannifera, a shrub of Western Asia; Australian, manna, that of
certain species of eucalyptus; Briançon manna, that of the European
larch. Manna grass (Bot.), a name of several tall slender grasses of
the genus Glyceria. they have long loose panicles, and grow in moist
places. Nerved manna grass is Glyceria nervata, and Floating manna
grass is G. flu.
 -- Manna insect (Zoöl), a scale insect (Gossyparia mannipara), which
causes the exudation of manna from the Tamarisk tree in Arabia.

MANNA CROUP
Man"na croup`. Etym: [Manna + Russ. & Pol. krupa groats, grits.]

1. The portions of hard wheat kernels not ground into flour by the
millstones: a kind of semolina prepared in Russia and used for
puddings, soups, etc.
 -- called also manna groats.

2. The husked grains of manna grass.

MANNER
Man"ner, n. Etym: [OE. manere, F. manière, from OF. manier, adj.,
manual, skillful, handy, fr. (assumed) LL. manarius, for L. manuarius
belonging to the hand, fr. manus the hand. See Manual.]

1. Mode of action; way of performing or effecting anything; method;
style; form; fashion.
The nations which thou hast removed, and placed in the cities of
Samaria, know not the manner of the God of the land. 2 Kings xvii.
26.
The temptations of prosperity insinuate themselves after a gentle,
but very powerful,manner. Atterbury.

2. Characteristic mode of acting, conducting, carrying one's self, or
the like; bearing; habitual style. Specifically:
(a) Customary method of acting; habit.
Paul, as his manner was, went in unto them. Acts xvii. 2.
Air and manner are more expressive than words. Richardson.
(b) pl.

Defn: Carriage; behavior; deportment; also, becoming behavior; well-
bred carriage and address.
Good manners are made up of petty sacrifices. Emerson.

(c) The style of writing or thought of an author; characteristic
peculiarity of an artist.

3. Certain degree or measure; as, it is in a manner done already.
The bread is in a manner common. 1 Sam. xxi.5.

4. Sort; kind; style; -- in this application sometimes having the
sense of a plural, sorts or kinds.
Ye tithe mint, and rue, and all manner of herbs. Luke xi. 42.
I bid thee say, What manner of man art thou Coleridge.

Note: In old usage, of was often omitted after manner, when employed
in this sense. "A manner Latin corrupt was her speech." Chaucer. By
any manner of means, in any way possible; by any sort of means.
 -- To be taken in, or with the manner. Etym: [A corruption of to be
taken in the mainor. See Mainor.] To be taken in the very act. [Obs.]
See Mainor.
 -- To make one's manners, to make a bow or courtesy; to offer
salutation.
 -- Manners bit, a portion left in a dish for the sake of good
manners. Hallwell.

Syn.
 -- Method; mode; custom; habit; fashion; air; look; mien; aspect;
appearance. See Method.

MANNERCHOR
Män"ner*chor`, n.; G. pl. -chöre (#). [G.; männer, pl. of mann man +
chor chorus.]

Defn: A German men's chorus or singing club.

MANNERED
Man"nered, a.

1. Having a certain way, esp a. polite way, of carrying and
conducting one's self.
Give her princely training, that she may be Mannered as she is born.
Shak.

2. Affected with mannerism; marked by excess of some characteristic
peculiarity.
His style is in some degree mannered and confined. Hazlitt.

MANNERISM
Man"ner*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. maniérisme.]

Defn: Adherence to a peculiar style or manner; a characteristic mode
of action, bearing, or treatment, carried to excess, especially in
literature or art.
Mannerism is pardonable,and is sometimes even agreeable, when the
manner, though vicious, is natural . . . . But a mannerism which does
not sit easy on the mannerist, which has been adopted on principle,
and which can be sustained only by constant effort, is always
offensive. Macaulay.

MANNERIST
Man"ner*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. maniériste.]

Defn: One addicted to mannerism; a person who, in action, bearing, or
treatment, carries characteristic peculiarities to excess. See
citation under Mannerism.

MANNERLINESS
Man"ner*li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being mannerly; civility; complaisance.
Sir M. Hale.

MANNERLY
Man"ner*ly, a.

Defn: Showing good manners; civil; respectful; complaisant.
What thou thinkest meet, and is most mannerly. Shak.

MANNERLY
Man"ner*ly, adv.

Defn: With good manners. Shak.

MANNHEIM GOLD
Mann"heim gold". Etym: [From Mannheim in Germany, where much of it
was made.]

Defn: A kind of brass made in imitation of gold. It contains eighty
per cent of copper and twenty of zinc. Ure.

MANNIDE
Man"nide, n. Etym: [Mannite + anhydride.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white amorphous or crystalline substance, obtained by
dehydration of mannite, and distinct from, but convertible into,
mannitan.

MANNISH
Man"nish, a. Etym: [Man + -ish: cf. AS. mennisc, menisc.]

1. Resembling a human being in form or nature; human. Chaucer.
But yet it was a figure Most like to mannish creature. Gower.

2. Resembling, suitable to, or characteristic of, a man, manlike,
masculine. Chaucer.
A woman impudent and mannish grown. Shak.

3. Fond of men; -- said of a woman. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- Man"nish*ly,adv.
 -- Man"nish*ness, n.

MANNITAN
Man"ni*tan, n. Etym: [Mannite + anhydrite.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white amorphous or crystalline substance obtained by the
partial dehydration of mannite.

MANNITATE
Man"ni*tate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of mannitic acid.

MANNITE
Man"nite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mannite.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance of a sweet taste obtained from a
so-called manna, the dried sap of the flowering ash (Fraxinus ornus);
-- called also mannitol, and hydroxy hexane. Cf. Dulcite.
HO.CH2.(CHOH)4.CH2.OH = D-mannitol; manna sugar; cordycepic acid;
Diosmol; Mannicol; Mannidex; Osmiktrol; Osmosal.
 -- used in pharmacy as excipient and diluent for solids and liquids.
Used as a food additive for anti-caking properties, or as a
sweetener. Also used to "cut" (dilute) illegal drugs such as cocaine
or heroin. ("excipient" use)

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A sweet white efflorescence from dried fronds of kelp,
especially from those of the Laminaria saccharina, or devil's apron.

MANNITIC
Man*nit"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, resembling, or derived from, mannite.
Mannitic acid (Chem.), a white amorphous substance, intermediate
between saccharic acid and mannite, and obtained by the partial
oxidation of the latter.

MANNITOL
Man"ni*tol, n. Etym: [Mannite + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: The technical name of mannite. See Mannite.

MANNITOSE
Man"ni*tose`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A variety of sugar obtained by the partial oxidation of
mannite, and closely resembling levulose.

MANO
Ma"no, n. [Sp., lit., hand.]

Defn: The muller, or crushing and grinding stone, used in grinding
corn on a metate. [Mexico & Local U. S.]

MANOEUVRE
Ma*noeu"vre, n. & v.

Defn: See Maneuver.

MAN-OF-WAR
Man`-*of`-*war", n; pl. Men-of-war.

Defn: A government vessel employed for the purposes of war, esp. one
of large size; a ship of war. Man-of-war bird (Zoöl.), The frigate
bird; also applied to the skua gulls, and to the wandering albatross.
 -- Man-of-war hawk (Zoöl.), the frigate bird.
 -- Man-of-war's man, a sailor serving in a ship of war.
 -- Portuguese man-of-war (Zoöl.), any species of the genus Physalia.
See Physalia.

MANOGRAPH
Man"o*graph, n. [Gr.  thin, rare + -graph: cf. F. manographe.]
(Engin.)

Defn: An optical device for making an indicator diagram for high-
speed engines. It consists of a light-tight box or camera having at
one end a small convex mirror which reflects a beam of light on to
the ground glass or photographic plate at the other end. The mirror
is pivoted so that it can be moved in one direction by a small
plunger operated by an elastic metal diaphragm which closes a tube
connected with the engine cylinder. It is also moved at right angles
to this direction by a reducing motion, called a reproducer, so as to
copy accurately on a smaller scale the motion of the engine piston.
The resultant of these two movements imparts to the reflected beam of
light a motion similar to that of the pencil of the ordinary
indicator, and this can be traced on the sheet of ground glass, or
photographed.

MANOMETER
Ma*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. manomètre.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the tension or elastic force of
gases, steam, etc., constructed usually on the principle of allowing
the gas to exert its elastic force in raising a column of mercury in
an open tube, or in compressing a portion of air or other gas in a
closed tube with mercury or other liquid intervening, or in bending a
metallic or other spring so as to set in motion an index; a pressure
gauge. See Pressure, and Illust. of Air pump.

MANOMETRIC; MANOMETRICAL
Man`o*met"ric, Man`o*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. manométrique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the manometer; made by the manometer.

MANOR
Man"or, n. Etym: [OE. maner, OF. maneir habitation, village, F.
manoir manor, prop. the OF. inf. maneir to stay, remain, dwell, L.
manere, and so called because it was the permanent residence of the
lord and of his tenants. See Mansion, and cf. Remain.]

1. (Eng. Law)

Defn: The land belonging to a lord or nobleman, or so much land as a
lord or great personage kept in his own hands, for the use and
subsistence of his family.
My manors, rents, revenues, l forego. Shak.

Note: In these days, a manor rather signifies the jurisdiction and
royalty incorporeal, than the land or site, for a man may have a
manor in gross, as the law terms it, that is, the right and interest
of a court-baron, with the perquisites thereto belonging.

2. (American Law)

Defn: A tract of land occupied by tenants who pay a free-farm rent to
the proprietor, sometimes in kind, and sometimes by performing
certain stipulated services. Burrill. Manor house, or Manor seat, the
house belonging to a manor.

MANORIAL
Ma*no"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a manor. " Manorial claims." Paley.

MANOSCOPE
Man"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: Same as Manometer.

MANOSCOPY
Ma*nos"co*py, n.

Defn: The science of the determination of the density of vapors and
gases.

MANOVERY
Ma*no"ver*y, n. Etym: [See Maneuver.] (Eng. Law)

Defn: A contrivance or maneuvering to catch game illegally.

MANQUELLER
Man"quell`er, n.

Defn: A killer of men; a manslayer. [Obs.] Carew.

MANRED; MANRENT
Man"red, Man"rent`, n.

Defn: Homage or service rendered to a superior, as to a lord;
vassalage. [Obs. or Scots Law] Jamieson.

MANROPE
Man"rope`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: One of the side ropes to the gangway of a ship. Totten.

MANSARD ROOF
Man"sard roof". Etym: [So called from its inventor, François Mansard,
or Mansart, a distinguished French architect, who died in 1666.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A hipped curb roof; that is, a roof having on all sides two
slopes, the lower one being steeper than the upper one.

MANSE
Manse, n. Etym: [LL. mansa, mansus, mansum, a farm, fr. L. manere,
mansum, to stay, dwell. See Mansion, Manor.]

1. A dwelling house, generally with land attached.

2. The parsonage; a clergyman's house. [Scot.] Capital manse, the
manor house, or lord's court.

MANSERVANT
Man"serv`ant, n.

Defn: A male servant.

MANSION
Man"sion, n. Etym: [OF. mansion, F. maison, fr. L. mansio a staying,
remaining, a dwelling, habitation, fr. manere, mansum, to stay,
dwell; akin to Gr. Manse, Manor, Menagerie, Menial, Permanent.]

1. A dwelling place, -- whether a part or whole of a house or other
shelter. [Obs.]
In my Father's house are many mansions. John xiv. 2.
These poets near our princes sleep, And in one grave their mansions
keep. Den

2. The house of the lord of a manor; a manor house; hence: Any house
of considerable size or pretension.

3. (Astrol.)

Defn: A twelfth part of the heavens; a house. See 1st House, 8.
Chaucer.

4. The place in the heavens occupied each day by the moon in its
monthly revolution. [Obs.]
The eight and twenty mansions That longen to the moon. Chaucer.
Mansion house, the house in which one resides; specifically, in
London and some other cities, the official residence of the Lord
Mayor. Blackstone.

MANSION
Man"sion, v. i.

Defn: To dwell; to reside. [Obs.] Mede.

MANSIONARY
Man"sion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Resident; residentiary; as, mansionary canons.

MANSIONRY
Man"sion*ry, n.

Defn: The state of dwelling or residing; occupancy as a dwelling
place. [Obs.] Shak.

MANSLAUGHTER
Man"slaugh`ter, n.

1. The slaying of a human being; destruction of men. Milton.

2. (Law)

Defn: The unlawful killing of a man, either in negligenc

MANSLAYER
Man"slay`er, n.

Defn: One who kills a human being; one who commits manslaughter.

MANSTEALER
Man"steal`er, n.

Defn: A person who steals or kidnaps a human being or beings.

MANSTEALING
Man"steal`ing, n.

Defn: The act or business of stealing or kidnaping human beings,
especially with a view to e

MANSUETE
Man"suete, a. Etym: [L. mansuetus, p. p. of mansuescere to tame;
manus hand + suescere to accustom: cf. F. mansuet.]

Defn: Tame; gentle; kind. [Obs.] Ray.

MANSUETUDE
Man"sue*tude, n. Etym: [L. mansuetudo: cf. F.mansuétude.]

Defn: Tameness; gentleness; mildness. [Archaic]

MANSWEAR
Man"swear`, v. i.

Defn: To swear falsely. Same as Mainswear.

MANTA
Man"ta, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Coleoptera and Sea devil.

MANTCHOO
Mant*choo", a. & n.

Defn: Same as Manchu.

MANTEAU
Man`teau", n.; pl. F. Manteaux, E. Manteaus. Etym: [F. See Mantle,
n.]

1. A woman's cloak or mantle.

2. A gown worn by women. [Obs.]

MANTEL
Man"tel, n. Etym: [The same word as mantle a garment; cf. F. manteau
de cheminée. See Mantle.] (Arch.)

Defn: The finish around a fireplace, covering the chimney-breast in
front and sometimes on both sides; especially, a shelf above the
fireplace, and its supports. [Written also mantle.]

MANTELET
Man"tel*et, n. Etym: [F., dim. of manteau, OF. mantel. See Mantle.]

1.
(a) A short cloak formerly worn by knights.
(b) A short cloak or mantle worn by women.
A mantelet upon his shoulders hanging. Chaucer.

2. (Fort.)

Defn: A musket-proof shield of rope, wood, or metal, which is
sometimes used for the protection of sappers or riflemen while
attacking a fortress, or of gunners at embrasures; -- now commonly
written mantlet.

MANTELLETTA
Man`tel*let"ta, n. [It. mantelletta. See Mantelet.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A silk or woolen vestment without sleeves worn by cardinals,
bishops, abbots, and the prelates of the Roman court. It has a low
collar, is fastened in front, and reaches almost to the knees.

MANTELPIECE
Man"tel*piece`, n.

Defn: Same as Mantel.

MANTELSHELF
Man"tel*shelf`, n.

Defn: The shelf of a mantel.

MANTELTREE
Man"tel*tree`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The lintel of a fireplace when of wood, as frequently in early
houses.

MANTIC
Man"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to divination, or to the condition of one
inspired, or supposed to be inspired, by a deity; prophetic. [R.]
"Mantic fury." Trench.

MANTILLA
Man*til"la, n. Etym: [Sp. See Mantle.]

1. A lady's light cloak of cape of silk, velvet, lace, or the like.

2. A kind of veil, covering the head and falling down upon the
shoulders; -- worn in Spain, Mexico, etc.

MANTIS
Man"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of voracious orthopterous insects
of the genus Mantis, and allied genera. They are remarkable for their
slender grotesque forms, and for holding their stout anterior legs in
a manner suggesting hands folded in prayer. The common American
species is M. Carolina. Mantis shrimp. (Zoöl.) See Sguilla.

MANTISPID
Man*tis"pid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any neuropterous insect of the genus Mantispa, and allied
genera. The larvæ feed on plant lice. Also used adjectively. See
Illust. under Neuroptera.

MANTISSA
Man*tis*sa, n. Etym: [L., an addition, makeweight; of Tuscan origin.]
(Math.)

Defn: The decimal part of a logarithm, as distinguished from the
integral part, or characteristic.

MANTLE
Man"tle, n. Etym: [OE. mantel, OF. mantel, F. manteau, fr. L.
mantellum, mantelum, a cloth, napkin, cloak, mantle (cf. mantele,
mantile, towel, napkin); prob. from manus hand + the root of tela
cloth. See Manual, Textile, and cf. Mandil, Mantel, Mantilla.]

1. A loose garment to be worn over other garments; an enveloping
robe; a cloak. Hence, figuratively, a covering or concealing
envelope.
[The] children are clothed with mantles of satin. Bacon.
The green mantle of the standing pool. Shak.
Now Nature hangs her mantle green On every blooming tree. Burns.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Same as Mantling.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) The external fold, or folds, of the soft, exterior membrane of
the body of a mollusk. It usually forms a cavity inclosing the gills.
See Illusts. of Buccinum, and Byssus.
(b) Any free, outer membrane.
(c) The back of a bird together with the folded wings.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: A mantel. See Mantel.

5. The outer wall and casing of a blast furnace, above the hearth.
Raymond.

6. (Hydraulic Engin.)

Defn: A penstock for a water wheel.

MANTLE
Man"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mantled; p. pr. & vb. n. Mantling.]

Defn: To cover or envelop, as with a mantle; to cloak; to hide; to
disguise. Shak.

MANTLE
Man"tle, v. i.

1. To unfold and spread out the wings, like a mantle; -- said of
hawks. Also used figuratively.
Ne is there hawk which mantleth on her perch. Spenser.
Or tend his sparhawk mantling in her mew. Bp. Hall.
My frail fancy fed with full delight. Doth bathe in bliss, and
mantleth most at ease. Spenser.

2. To spread out; -- said of wings.
The swan, with arched neck Between her white wings mantling proudly,
rows. Milton.

3. To spread over the surface as a covering; to overspread; as, the
scum mantled on the pool.
Though mantled in her cheek the blood. Sir W. Scott.

4. To gather, assume, or take on, a covering, as froth, scum, etc.
There is a sort of men whose visages Do cream and mantle like a
standing pond. Shak.
Nor bowl of wassail mantle warm. Tennyson.

MANTLET
Man"tlet, n.

Defn: See Mantelet.

MANTLING
Man"tling, n. (Her.)

Defn: The representation of a mantle, or the drapery behind and
around a coat of arms: -- called also lambrequin.

MANTO
Man"to, n. Etym: [It. or Sp. manto, abbrev., from L. mantelum. See
Mantle.]

Defn: See Manteau. [Obs.] Bailey.

MANTOLOGIST
Man*tol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is skilled in mantology; a diviner. [R.]

MANTOLOGY
Man*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The act or art of divination. [R.]

MANTRA
Man"tra, n. Etym: [Skr.]

Defn: A prayer; an invocation; a religious formula; a charm. [India]

Note: Among the Hindoos each caste and tribe has a mantra peculiar to
itself; as, the mantra of the Brahmans. Balfour (Cyc. of India).

MANTRAP
Man"trap`, n.

1. A trap for catching trespassers. [Eng.]

2. A dangerous place, as an open hatch, into which one may fall.

MANTUA
Man"tu*a, n.

1. A superior kind of rich silk formerly exported from Mantua in
Italy. [Obs.] Beck (Draper's Dict.).

2. A woman's cloak or mantle; also, a woman's gown. [Obs.]

MANTUAMAKER
Man"tu*a*mak`er, n.

Defn: One who makes dresses, cloaks, etc., for women; a dressmaker.

MANTUAN
Man"tu*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Mantua.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Mantua.

MANU
Ma"nu, n. Etym: [Skr.] (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: One of a series of progenitors of human beings, and authors of
human wisdom.

MANUAL
Man"u*al, a. Etym: [OE. manuel, F. manuel, L. manualis, fr. manus
hand; prob. akin to AS. mund hand, protection, OHG. munt, G. mündel a
ward, vormund guardian, Icel. mund hand. Cf. Emancipate, Legerdemain,
Maintain, Manage, Manner, Manur, Mound a hill.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the hand; done or made by the hand; as,
manual labor; the king's sign manual. "Manual and ocular
examination." Tatham. Manual alphabet. See Dactylology.
 -- Manual exercise (Mil.) the exercise by which soldiers are taught
the use of their muskets and other arms.
 -- Seal manual, the impression of a seal worn on the hand as a ring.
 -- Sign manual. See under Sign.

MANUAL
Man"u*al, n. Etym: [Cf. F. manuel, LL. manuale. See Manual, a.]

1. A small book, such as may be carried in the hand, or conveniently
handled; a handbook; specifically, the service book of the Roman
Catholic Church.
This manual of laws, styled the Confessor's Laws. Sir M. Hale.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A keyboard of an organ or harmonium for the fingers, as
distinguished from the pedals; a clavier, or set of keys. Moore
(Encyc. of Music).

3. (Mil.)

Defn: A prescribed exercise in the systematic handing of a weapon;
as, the manual of arms; the manual of the sword; the manual of the
piece (cannon, mortar, etc.).

MANUALIST
Man"u*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who works wi

MANUALLY
Man"u*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By hand.

MANUARY
Man"u*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. manuarius, fr. manus hand.]

Defn: Manual.
 -- n.

Defn: An artificer. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

MANUBIAL
Ma*nu"bi*al, a. Etym: [L. manubialis, fr. manubiae money obtained
from the sale of booty, booty.]

Defn: Belonging to spoils; taken in war. [Obs.] Bailey.

MANUBRIAL
Ma*nu"bri*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a manubrium; shaped like a manubrium;
handlelike.

MANUBRIUM
Ma*nu"bri*um, n.; pl. L. Manubria, E. Manubriums. Etym: [L., handle,
fr. manus hand.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A handlelike process or part; esp., the anterior segment of the
sternum, or presternum, and the handlelike process of the malleus.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The proboscis of a jellyfish; -- called also hypostoma. See
Illust. of Hydromedusa.

MANUCODE
Man"u*code, n. Etym: [Javanese manukdewata the bird of the gods: cf.
F. manucode.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the genus Manucodia, of Australia and New Guinea.
They are related to the bird of paradise.

MANUDUCENT
Man`u*du"cent, n.

Defn: One who leads by the hand; a manuductor. [Obs.]

MANUDUCTION
Man`u*duc"tion, n. Etym: [L. manus hand + ductio a leading, ducere to
lead: cf. F. manuduction.]

Defn: Guidance by the hand. [Obs.] Glanvill. South.

MANUDUCTOR
Man`u*duc"tor, n. Etym: [L. manus the hand + ductor a leader, ducere
to lead: cf. F. manuducteur.] (Mus.)

Defn: A conductor; an officer in the ancient church who gave the
signal for the choir to sing, and who beat time with the hand, and
regulated the music. Moore (Encyc. of Music.)

MANUFACTORY
Man`u*fac"to*ry, n.; pl. -ries. Etym: [Cf. L. factorium an oil press,
prop., place where something is made. See Manufacture.]

1. Manufacture. [Obs.]

2. A building or place where anything is manufactured; a factory.

MANUFACTORY
Man`u*fac"to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to manufacturing.

MANUFACTURAL
Man`u*fac"tur*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to manufactures. [R.]

MANUFACTURE
Man`u*fac"ture, n. Etym: [L. manus the hand + factura a making, fr.
facere to make: cf. F. manufacture. See Manual, and Fact.]

1. The operation of making wares or any products by hand, by
machinery, or by other agency.

2. Anything made from raw materials by the hand, by machinery, or by
art, as cloths, iron utensils, shoes, machinery, saddlery, etc.

MANUFACTURE
Man`u*fac"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Manufactured; p. pr. & vb. n.
Manufacturing.] Etym: [Cf. F. manufacturer.]

1. To make (wares or other products) by hand, by machinery, or by
other agency; as, to manufacture cloth, nails, glass, etc.

2. To work, as raw or partly wrought materials, into suitable forms
for use; as, to manufacture wool, cotton, silk, or iron.

MANUFACTURE
Man`u*fac"ture, v. i.

Defn: To be employed in manufacturing something.

MANUFACTURER
Man`u*fac"tur*er, n.

Defn: One who manufactures.

MANUFACTURING
Man`u*fac"tur*ing, a.

1. Employed, or chiefly employed, in manufacture; as, a manufacturing
community; a manufacturing town.

2. Pertaining to manufacture; as, manufacturing projects.

MANUL
Ma"nul, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wild cat (Felis manul), having long, soft, light-colored fur.
It is found in the mountains of Central Asia, and dwells among rocks.

MANUMISE
Man"u*mise`, v. t. Etym: [See Manumit.]

Defn: To manumit. [Obs.] Dryden.

MANUMISSION
Man`u*mis"sion, n. Etym: [L. manumissio: cf. F. manumission. See
Manumit.]

Defn: The act of manumitting, or of liberating a slave from bondage.
"Given to slaves at their manumission." Arbuthnot.

MANUMIT
Man`u*mit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Manumitted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Manumitting.] Etym: [L. manumittere, manumissum; manus the hand +
mittere to send, to send off. See Manual, and Missile.]

Defn: To release from slavery; to liberate from personal bondage or
servitude; to free, as a slave. "Manumitted slaves." Hume.

MANUMOTIVE
Man"u*mo`tive, a. Etym: [L. manus the hand + E. motive.]

Defn: Movable by hand. [R.]

MANUMOTOR
Man"u*mo`tor, n. Etym: [L. manus the hand + E. motor.]

Defn: A small wheel carriage, so constructed that a person sitting in
it may move it.

MANURABLE
Ma*nur"a*ble (, a.

1. Capable of cultivation. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

2. Capable of receiving a fertilizing substance.

MANURAGE
Ma*nur"age, n.

Defn: Cultivation. [Obs.] Warner.

MANURANCE
Ma*nur"ance, n.

Defn: Cultivation. [Obs.] Spenser.

MANURE
Ma*nure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Manured; p. pr. & vb. n. Manuring.]
Etym: [Contr, from OF. manuvrer, manovrer, to work with the hand, to
cultivate by manual labor, F. man. See Manual, Ure, Opera, and cf.
Inure.]

1. To cultivate by manual labor; to till; hence, to develop by
culture. [Obs.]
To whom we gave the strand for to manure. Surrey.
Manure thyself then; to thyself be improved; And with vain, outward
things be no more moved. Donne.

2. To apply manure to; to enrich, as land, by the application of a
fertilizing substance.
The blood of English shall manure the ground. Shak.

MANURE
Ma*nure", n.

Defn: Any matter which makes land productive; a fertilizing
substance, as the contents of stables and barnyards, dung, decaying
animal or vegetable substances, etc. Dryden.

MANUREMENT
Ma*nure"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. manouvrement.]

Defn: Cultivation. [Obs.] W. Wotton.

MANURER
Ma*nur"er, n.

Defn: One who manures land.

MANURIAL
Ma*nu"ri*al, a.

Defn: Relating to manures.

MANURING
Ma*nur"ing, n.

Defn: The act of process of applying manure; also, the manure
applied.

MANUS
Ma"nus, n.; pl. Manus. Etym: [L., the hand.] (Anat.)

Defn: The distal segment of the fore limb, including the carpus and
fore foot or hand.

MANUSCRIPT
Man"u*script, a. Etym: [L. manu scriptus. See Manual, and Scribe.]

Defn: Written with or by the hand; not printed; as, a manuscript
volume.

MANUSCRIPT
Man"u*script, n. Etym: [LL. manuscriptum, lit., something written
with the hand. See Manuscript, a.]

1. A literary or musical composition written with the hand, as
distinguished from a printed copy.

2. Writing, as opposed to print; as, the book exists only in
manuscript. Craik.

Note: The word is often abbreviated to MS., plural MSS.

MANUSCRIPTAL
Man"u*script`al, a.

Defn: Manuscript. [Obs.]

MANUTENENCY
Man`u*ten"en*cy, n. Etym: [L. manus hand + tenere to hold.]

Defn: Maintenance. [Obs.] Abp. Sancroft.

MANWAY
Man"way`, n.

Defn: A small passageway, as in a mine, that a man may pass through.
Raymond.

MANX
Manx, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Isle of Man, or its inhabitants; as,
the Manx language. Manx cat (Zoöl.), a breed of domestic cats having
a rudimentary tail, containing only about three vertebrae.
 -- Manx shearwater (Zoöl.), an oceanic bird (Puffinus anglorum, or
P. puffinus), called also Manx petrel, Manx puffin. It was formerly
abundant in the Isle of Man.

MANX
Manx, n.

Defn: The language of the inhabitants of the Isle of Man, a dialect
of the Celtic.

MANY
Ma"ny, n. Etym: [See Meine, Mansion.]

Defn: A retinue of servants; a household. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MANY
Ma"ny, a. or pron.

Note: [It has no variation to express degrees of comparison; more and
most, which are used for the comparative and superlative degrees, are
from a different root.] Etym: [OE. mani, moni, AS. manig, mænig,
monig; akin to D. menig, OS. & OHG. manag, G. manch, Dan. mange, Sw.
månge, Goth. manags, OSlav. mnog', Russ. mnogii; cf. Icel. margr,
Prov. E. mort. sq. root103.]

Defn: Consisting of a great number; numerous; not few.
Thou shalt be a father of many nations. Gen. xvii. 4.
Not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble,
are called. 1 Cor. i. 26.

Note: Many is freely prefixed to participles, forming compounds which
need no special explanation; as, many-angled, many-celled, many-eyed,
many-footed, many-handed, many-leaved, many-lettered, many-named,
many-peopled, many-petaled, many-seeded, many-syllabled
(polysyllabic), many-tongued, many-voiced, many-wived, and the like.
Comparison is often expressed by many with as or so. "As many as were
willing hearted . . . brought bracelets." Exod. xxxv. 22. "So many
laws argue so many sins." Milton. Many stands with a singular
substantive with a or an. Many a, a large number taken
distributively; each one of many. "For thy sake have I shed many a
tear." Shak. "Full many a gem of purest ray serene." Gray.
 -- Many one, many a one; many persons. BK. of Com. Prayer.
 -- The many, the majority; -- opposed to the few. See Many, n.
 -- Too many, too numerous; hence, too powerful; as, they are too
many for us. L'Estrange.

Syn.
 -- Numerous; multiplied; frequent; manifold; various; divers;
sundry.

MANY
Ma"ny, n. Etym: [AS. menigeo, menigo, menio, multitude; akin to G.
menge, OHG. managi, menigi, Goth. managei. See Many, a.]

1. The populace; the common people; the majority of people, or of a
community.
After him the rascal many ran. Spenser.

2. A large or considerable number.
A many of our bodies shall no doubt Find native graves. Shak.
Seeing a great many in rich gowns. Addison.
It will be concluded by manythat he lived like an honest man.
Fielding.

Note: In this sense, many is connected immediately with another
substantive (without of) to show of what the many consists; as, a
good many [of] people think so.
He is liable to a great many inconveniences. Tillotson.

MANY-MINDED
Ma"ny-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Having many faculties; versatile; many-sided.

MANYPLIES
Ma"ny*plies, n. Etym: [Many, adj. + plies, pl. of ply a fold.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The third division, or that between the reticulum, or honeycomb
stomach, and the abomasum, or rennet stomach, in the stomach of
ruminants; the omasum; the psalterium. So called from the numerous
folds in its mucous membrane. See Illust of Ruminant.

MANY-SIDED
Ma"ny-sid`ed, a.

1. Having many sides; -- said of figures. Hence, presenting many
questions or subjects for consideration; as, a many-sided topic.

2. Interested in, and having an aptitude for, many unlike pursuits or
objects of attention; versatile.
 -- Ma"ny-sid`ed*ness, n.

MANYWAYS; MANYWISE
Ma"ny*ways`, Ma"ny*wise`, adv.

Defn: In many different ways; variously.

MANZANILLA
Man`za*nil"la, n. (Olive Trade)

Defn: A kind of small roundish olive with a small freestone pit, a
fine skin, and a peculiar bitterish flavor. Manzanillas are commonly
pitted and stuffed with Spanish pimientos.

MANZANITA
Man`za*ni"ta, n. Etym: [Sp., dim. of munzana an apple.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several species of Arctostaphylos, but mostly
to A. glauca and A. pungens, shrubs of California, Oregon, etc., with
reddish smooth bark, ovate or oval coriaceous evergreen leaves, and
bearing clusters of red berries, which are said to be a favorite food
of the grizzly bear.

MAORI
Ma"o*ri, n.; pl. Maoris (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of the aboriginal inhabitants of New Zealand; also, the
original language of New Zealand.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Maoris or to their language.

MAP
Map, n. Etym: [From F. mappe, in mappemonde map of the world, fr. L.
mappa napkin, signal cloth; -- a Punic word. Cf. Apron, Napkin,
Nappe.]

1. A representation of the surface of the earth, or of some portion
of it, showing the relative position of the parts represented; --
usually on a flat surface. Also, such a representation of the
celestial sphere, or of some part of it.

Note: There are five principal kinds of projection used in making
maps: the orthographic, the stereographic, the globuar, the conical,
and the cylindrical, or Mercator's projection. See Projection.

2. Anything which represents graphically a succession of events,
states, or acts; as, an historical map.
Thus is his cheek the map of days outworn. Shak.
Map lichen (Bot.), a lichen (Lecidea geographica.) growing on stones
in curious maplike figures. Dr. Prior.

MAP
Map, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Mapping.]

Defn: To represent by a map; -- often with out; as, to survey and
map, or map out, a county. Hence, figuratively: To represent or
indicate systematically and clearly; to sketch; to plan; as, to map,
or map out, a journey; to map out business.
I am near to the place where they should meet, if Pisanio have mapped
it truly. Shak.

MAPACH
Ma*pach", n. Etym: [Mexican.]

Defn: The raccoon.

MAPLE
Ma"ple, n. Etym: [AS. mapolder, mapulder, mapol; akin to Icel.
möpurr; cf. OHG. mazzaltra, mazzoltra, G. massholder.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree of the genus Acer, including about fifty species. A.
saccharinum is the rock maple, or sugar maple, from the sap of which
sugar is made, in the United States, in great quantities, by
evaporation; the red or swamp maple is A. rubrum; the silver maple,
A. dasycarpum, having fruit wooly when young; the striped maple, A.
Pennsylvanium, called also moosewood. The common maple of Europe is
A. campestre, the sycamore maple is A. Pseudo-platanus, and the
Norway maple is A. platanoides.

Note: Maple is much used adjectively, or as the first part of a
compound; as, maple tree, maple leaf, etc. Bird's-eye maple, Curled
maple, varieties of the wood of the rock maple, in which a beautiful
lustrous grain is produced by the sinuous course of the fibers.
 -- Maple honey, Maple molasses, or Maple sirup, maple sap boiled to
the consistency of molasses.
 -- Maple sugar, sugar obtained from the sap of the sugar maple by
evaporation.

MAPLIKE
Map"like`, a.

Defn: Having or consisting of lines resembling a map; as, the maplike
figures in which certain lichens grow.

MAPPERY
Map"per*y, n. Etym: [From Map.]

Defn: The making, or study, of maps. [Obs.] Shak.

MAQUI
Ma"qui, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A Chilian shrub (Aristotelia Maqui). Its bark furnishes strings
for musical instruments, and a medicinal wine is made from its
berries.

MAR
Mar, n.

Defn: A small lake. See Mere. [Prov. Eng.]

MAR
Mar, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Marred (märd); p. pr. & vb. n. Marring.]
Etym: [OE. marren, merren, AS. merran, myrran (in comp.), to
obstruct, impede, dissipate; akin to OS. merrian, OHG. marrjan,
merran; cf. D. marren, meeren, to moor a ship, Icel. merja to bruise,
crush, and Goth. marzjan to offend. Cf. Moor, v.]

1. To make defective; to do injury to, esp. by cutting off or
defacing a part; to impair; to disfigure; to deface.
I pray you mar no more trees with wiring love songs in their barks.
Shak.
But mirth is marred, and the good cheer is lost. Dryden.
Ire, envy, and despair Which marred all his borrowed visage. Milton.

2. To spoil; to ruin. "It makes us, or it mars us." "Striving to
mend, to mar the subject." Shak.

MAR
Mar, n.

Defn: A mark or blemish made by bruising, scratching, or the like; a
disfigurement.

MARA
Ma"ra, n. Etym: [Skr. mara.] (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: The principal or ruling evil spirit. E. Arnold.

MARA
Ma"ra, n. Etym: [Icel. mara nightmare, an ogress. See Nightmare.]
(Norse Myth.)

Defn: A female demon who torments people in sleep by crouching on
their chests or stomachs, or by causing terrifying visions.

MARA
Ma"ra, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Patagonian cavy (Dolichotis Patagonicus.)

MARABOU
Mar`a*bou", n. Etym: [F.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large stork of the genus Leptoptilos (formerly Ciconia), esp.
the African species (L. crumenifer), which furnishes plumes worn as
ornaments. The Asiatic species (L. dubius, or L. argala) is the
adjutant. See Adjutant. [Written also marabu.]

2. One having five eighths negro blood; the offspring of a mulatto
and a griffe. [Louisiana] Bartlett.

MARABOUT
Marabout", n. Etym: [F., from Pg. marabuto, Ar. morabit. Cf.
Maravedi.]

Defn: A Mohammedan saint; especially, one who claims to work cures
supernaturally.

MARACAN
Mar"a*can, n. Etym: [Braz. maracaná.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A macaw.

MARAI
Ma*rai", n.

Defn: A sacred inclosure or temple; -- so called by the islanders of
the Pacific Ocean.

MARANATHA
Mar`a*nath"a, n. Etym: [Aramaic maran atha.]

Defn: "Our Lord cometh;" -- an expression used by St. Paul at the
conclusion of his first Epistle to the Corinthians (xvi. 22). This
word has been used in anathematizing persons for great crimes; as
much as to say, "May the Lord come quickly to take vengeance of thy
crimes." See Anathema maranatha, under Anathema.

MARANTA
Ma*ran"ta, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of endogenous plants found in tropical America, and
some species also in India. They have tuberous roots containing a
large amount of starch, and from one species (Maranta arundinacea)
arrowroot is obtained. Many kinds are cultivated for ornament.

MARASCHINO
Ma`ra*schi"no, n. Etym: [It., fr. marasca, amarasca, a sour cherry,
L. amarus bitter.]

Defn: A liqueur distilled from fermented cherry juice, and flavored
with the pit of a variety of cherry which grows in Dalmatia.

MARASMUS
Ma*ras"mus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A wasting of flesh without fever or apparent disease; a kind of
consumption; atrophy; phthisis.
Pining atrophy, Marasmus, and wide-wasting pestilence. Milton.
Marasmus senilis Etym: [L.], progressive atrophy of the aged.

MARATHI; MAHRATTA
Ma*ra"thi, Mah*rat"ta, n.

Defn: A Sanskritic language of western India, prob. descended from
the Maharastri Prakrit, spoken by the Marathas and neighboring
peoples. It has an abundant literature dating from the 13th century.
It has a book alphabet nearly the same as Devanagari and a cursive
script translation between the Devanagari and the Gujarati.

MARAUD
Ma*raud", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Marauded; p. pr. & vb. n. Marauding.]
Etym: [F. marauder, fr. maraud vagabond, OF. marault; of uncertain
origin, perh. for malault, fr. (assumed) LL. malaldus; fr. L. malus
bad, ill + a suffix of German origin (cf. Herald). Cf. Malice.]

Defn: To rove in quest of plunder; to make an excursion for booty; to
plunder. "Marauding hosts." Milman.

MARAUD
Ma*raud", n.

Defn: An excursion for plundering.

MARAUDER
Ma*raud`er, n. Etym: [From Maraud, v.: cf. F. maraudeur.]

Defn: A rover in quest of booty or plunder; a plunderer; one who
pillages. De Quincey.

MARAVEDI
Mar`a*ve"di, n. Etym: [Sp. maravedí; -- so called from the Morabitin
(lit., the steadfast), an Arabian dynasty which reigned in Africa and
Spain. Cf. Marabout.] (Numis.)

Defn: A small copper coin of Spain, equal to three mils American
money, less than a farthing sterling. Also, an ancient Spanish gold
coin.

MARBLE
Mar"ble, n. Etym: [OE. marbel, marbre, F. marbre, L. marmor, fr. Gr.
Marmoreal.]

1. A massive, compact limestone; a variety of calcite, capable of
being polished and used for architectural and ornamental purposes.
The color varies from white to black, being sometimes yellow, red,
and green, and frequently beautifully veined or clouded. The name is
also given to other rocks of like use and appearance, as serpentine
or verd antique marble, and less properly to polished porphyry,
granite, etc.

Note: Breccia marble consists of limestone fragments cemented
together.
 -- Ruin marble, when polished, shows forms resembling ruins, due to
disseminated iron oxide.
 -- Shell marble contains fossil shells.
 -- Statuary marble is a pure, white, fine-grained kind, including
Parian (from Paros) and Carrara marble. If coarsely granular it is
called saccharoidal.

2. A thing made of, or resembling, marble, as a work of art, or
record, in marble; or, in the plural, a collection of such works; as,
the Arundel or Arundelian marbles; the Elgin marbles.

3. A little ball of marble, or of some other hard substance, used as
a plaything by children; or, in the plural, a child's game played
with marbles.

Note: Marble is also much used in self-explaining compounds; when
used figuratively in compounds it commonly means, hard, cold,
destitute of compassion or feeling; as, marble-breasted, marble-
faced, marble-hearted.

MARBLE
Mar"ble, a.

1. Made of, or resembling, marble; as, a marble mantel; marble paper.

2. Cold; hard; unfeeling; as, a marble breast or heart.

MARBLE
Mar"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Marbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Marbling.]
Etym: [Cf. F. marbrer. See Marble, n.]

Defn: To stain or vein like marble; to variegate in color; as, to
marble the edges of a book, or the surface of paper.

MARBLED
Mar"bled, a.

1. Made of, or faced with, marble. [Obs.] "The marbled mansion."
Shak.

2. Made to resemble marble; veined or spotted like marble. "Marbled
paper." Boyle.

3. (zoöl.)

Defn: Varied with irregular markings, or witch a confused blending of
irregular spots and streaks.

MARBLE-EDGED
Mar"ble-edged`, a.

Defn: Having the edge veined or spotted with different colors like
marble, as a book.

MARBLEIZE
Mar"ble*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Marbleized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Marbleizing.]

Defn: To stain or grain in imitation of marble; to cover with a
surface resembling marble; as, to marbleize slate, wood, or iron.

MARBLER
Mar"bler (, n.

1. One who works upon marble or other stone. [R.] Fuller.

2. One who colors or stains in imitation of marble.

MARBLING
Mar"bling, n.

1. The art or practice of variegating in color, in imitation of
marble.

2. An intermixture of fat and lean in meat, giving it a marbled
appearance.

3. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Distinct markings resembling the variegations of marble, as on
birds and insects.

MARBLY
Mar"bly, a.

Defn: Containing, or resembling, marble.

MARBRINUS
Mar*bri"nus, n. Etym: [LL., fr. OF. & F. marble marble. See Marble.]

Defn: A cloth woven so as to imitate the appearance of marble; --
much used in the 15th and 16th centuries. Beck (Draper's Dict.).

MARC
Marc, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The refuse matter which remains after the pressure of fruit,
particularly of grapes.

MARC
Marc, n. Etym: [AS. marc; akin to G. mark, Icel. mörk, perh. akin to
E. mark a sign. 106, 273.] [Written also mark.]

1. A weight of various commodities, esp. of gold and silver, used in
different European countries. In France and Holland it was equal to
eight ounces.

2. A coin formerly current in England and Scotland, equal to thirteen
shillings and four pence.

3. A German coin and money of account. See Mark.

MARCANTANT
Mar"can*tant, n. Etym: [It. mercatante. See Merchant.]

Defn: A merchant. [Obs.] Shak.

MARCASITE
Mar"ca*site, n. Etym: [F. marcassite; cf. It. marcassita, Sp.
marquesita, Pg. marquezita; all fr. Ar. marqashitha.] (Min.)

Defn: A sulphide of iron resembling pyrite or common iron pyrites in
composition, but differing in form; white iron pyrites. Golden
marcasite, tin. [Obs.]

MARCASITIC; MARCASITICAL
Mar`ca*sit"ic, Mar`ca*sit"ic*al, a.

Defn: Containing, or having the nature of, marcasite.

MARCASSIN
Mar*cas"sin, n. Etym: [F.] (Her.)

Defn: A young wild boar.

MARCATO
Mar*ca"to, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: In a marked emphatic manner; -- used adverbially as a
direction.

MARCELINE
Mar"cel*ine, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. marcidus withered, fr. marcere to
wither, shrivel.]

Defn: A thin silk fabric used for linings, etc., in ladies' dresses.

MARCESCENT
Mar*ces"cent, a. Etym: [L. marcescens, p. pr. of marcescere to
wither, decay, fr. marcere to wither, droop: cf. F. marcescent.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Withering without

MARCESCIBLE
Mar*ces"ci*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. marcescible.]

Defn: Li

MARCH
March, n. Etym: [L. Martius mensis Mars'month fr. Martius belonging
to Mars, the god of war: cf. F. mars. Cf. Martial.]

Defn: The third month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
The stormy March is come at last, With wind, and cloud, and changing
skies. Bryant.
As mad as a March Hare, an old English Saying derived from the fact
that March is the rutting time of hares, when they are excitable and
violent. Wright.

MARCH
March, n. Etym: [OE. marche, F. marche; of German origin; cf. OHG.
marcha, G. mark, akin to OS. marka, AS. mearc, Goth. marka, L. margo
edge, border, margin, and possibly to E. mark a sign. Margin,
Margrave, Marque, Marquis.]

Defn: A territorial border or frontier; a region adjacent to a
boundary line; a confine; -- used chiefly in the plural, and in
English history applied especially to the border land on the
frontiers between England and Scotland, and England and Wales.
Geneva is situated in the marches of several dominions -- France,
Savoy, and Switzerland. Fuller.
Lords of waste marches, kings of desolate isles. Tennyson.

MARCH
March, v. i. Etym: [Cf. OF. marchir. See 2d March.]

Defn: To border; to be contiguous; to lie side by side. [Obs.]
That was in a strange land Which marcheth upon Chimerie. Gower.
To march with, to have the same boundary for a greater or less
distance; -- said of an estate.

MARCH
March, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Marched; p. pr. & vb. n. Marching.] Etym:
[F. marcher, in OF. also, to tread, prob. fr. L. marcus hammer. Cf.
Mortar.]

1. To move with regular steps, as a soldier; to walk in a grave,
deliberate, or stately manner; to advance steadily. Shak.

2. To proceed by walking in a body or in military order; as, the
German army marched into France.

MARCH
March, v. t.

Defn: TO cause to move with regular steps in the manner of a soldier;
to cause to move in military array, or in a body, as troops; to cause
to advance in a steady, regular, or stately manner; to cause to go by
peremptory command, or by force.
March them again in fair array. Prior.

MARCH
March, n. Etym: [F. marche.]

1. The act of marching; a movement of soldiers from one stopping
place to another; military progress; advance of troops.
These troops came to the army harassed with a long and wearisome
march. Bacon.

2. Hence: Measured and regular advance or movement, like that of
soldiers moving in order; stately or deliberate walk; steady onward
movement.
With solemn march Goes slow and stately by them. Shak.
This happens merely because men will not bide their time, but will
insist on precipitating the march of affairs. Buckle.

3. The distance passed over in marching; as, an hour's march; a march
of twenty miles.

4. A piece of music designed or fitted to accompany and guide the
movement of troops; a piece of music in the march form.
The drums presently striking up a march. Knolles.
To make a march, (Card Playing), to take all the tricks of a hand, in
the game of euchre.

MARCHER
March"er, n.

Defn: One who marches.

MARCHER
March"er, n. Etym: [See 2d March.]

Defn: The lord or officer who defended the marches or borders of a
territory.

MARCHET; MERCHET
Mar"chet, Mer"chet, n. Etym: [LL. marcheta; of uncertain origin.]

Defn: In old English and in Scots law, a fine paid to the lord of the
soil by a tenant upon the marriage of one the tenant's daughters.

MARCHING
March"ing, a. & n.

Defn: ,fr. March, v. Marching money (Mil.), the additional pay of
officer or soldier when his regiment is marching.
 -- In marching order (Mil.), equipped for a march.
 -- Marching regiment. (Mil.) (a) A regiment in active service. (b)
In England, a regiment liable to be ordered into other quarters, at
home or abroad; a regiment of the line.

MARCHIONESS
Mar"chio*ness, n. Etym: [LL. marchionissa, fr. marchio a marquis. See
Marquis.]

Defn: The wife or the widow of a marquis; a woman who has the rank
and dignity of a marquis. Spelman.

MARCH-MAD
March"-mad`, a.

Defn: Extremely rash; foolhardy. See under March, the month. Sir W.
Scott.

MARCHMAN
March"man, n.

Defn: A person living in the marches between England and Scotland or
Wales.

MARCHPANE
March"pane`, n. Etym: [Cf. It. marzapane,Sp. pan,. massepain, prob.
fr. L. maza frumenty (Gr. ma^za) + L. panis bread; but perh. the
first part of the word is from the name of the inventor.]

Defn: A kind of sweet bread or biscuit; a cake of pounded almonds and
sugar. [Obs.]marzipan Shak.

MARCH-WARD
March"-ward`, n.

Defn: A warden of the marches; a marcher.

MARCIAN
Mar"cian, a.

Defn: Under the influence of Mars; courageous; bold. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MARCID
Mar"cid, a. Etym: [L. marcidus, fr. marcere to wither, pine.]

1. Pining; lean; withered. Dryden.

2. Characterized by emaciation, as a fever. Harvey.

MARCIDITY
Mar"cid"ity, n. Etym: [LL. marciditas.]

Defn: The state or quality of being withered or lean. [R.]

MARCIONITE
Mar"cion*ite, n. (Eccl. Hist)

Defn: A follower of Marcion, a Gnostic of the second century, who
adopted the Oriental notion of the two conflicting principles, and
imagined that between them there existed a third power, neither
wholly good nor evil, the Creator of the world and of man, and the
God of the Jewish dispensation. Brande & C.

MARCOBRUNNER
Mar`co*brun"ner, n. Etym: [G. Marcobrunner.]

Defn: A celebrated Rhine wine.

MARCONI
Mar*co"ni, a. [After Guglielmo Marconi (b. 1874), Italian inventor.]

Defn: Designating, or pert. to, Marconi's system of wireless
telegraphy; as, Marconi aërial, coherer, station, system, etc.

MARCONIGRAM
Mar*co"ni*gram, n.  [Marconi + -gram.]

Defn: A Marconi wireless message.

MARCONIGRAPH
Mar*co"ni*graph, n.  [Marconi + -graph.]

Defn: The apparatus used in Marconi wireless telegraphy.

MARCONI'S LAW
Mar*co"ni's law. (Wireless Teleg.)

Defn: The law that the maximum good signaling distance varies
directly as the square of the height of the transmitting antenna.

MARCONISM
Mar*co"nism, n.

Defn: The theory or practice of Marconi's wireless telegraph system.

MARCONI SYSTEM
Mar*co"ni system. (Elec.)

Defn: A system or wireless telegraphy developed by G. Marconi, an
Italian physicist, in which Hertzian waves are used in transmission
and a coherer is used as the receiving instrument.

MARCOR
Mar"cor, n. Etym: [L., fr. marcere to wither.]

Defn: A wasting away of flesh; decay. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

MARCOSIAN
Mar*co"sian, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a Gnostic sect of the second century, so called from
Marcus, an Egyptian, who was reputed to be a margician.

MARDI GRAS
Mar"di` gras", n. Etym: [F., literally, fat Tuesday.]

Defn: The last day of Carnival; Shrove Tuesday; -- in some cities a
great day of carnival and merrymaking.

MARE
Mare, n. Etym: [OE. mere, AS. mere, myre, fem of AS. mearh horse,
akin to D. merrie mare, G. mähre, OHG. marah horse, meriha mare,
Icel. marr horse, OCelt. marka (Pausan. 19, 19,4), Ir. marc, W.
march. Cf. Marshal.]

Defn: The female of the horse and other equine quadrupeds.

MARE
Mare, n. Etym: [AS. mara incubus; akin to OHG. & Icel. mara; cf. Pol.
mora, Bohem. m.] (Med.)

Defn: Sighing, suffocative panting, intercepted utterance, with a
sense of pressure across the chest, occurring during sleep; the
incubus; -- obsolete, except in the compound nightmare.
I will ride thee o' nights like the mare. Shak.

MARECHAL NIEL
Mare"chal Niel". Etym: [F.]

Defn: A kind of large yellow rose. [Written also Marshal Niel.]

MARE CLAUSUM
Ma"re clau"sum. [L.] (Internat. Law)

Defn: Lit., closed sea; hence, a body of water within the separate
jurisdiction of the nation; -- opposed to open sea, the water open to
all nations and over which no single nation has special control.

MAREIS
Mar"eis, n.

Defn: A Marsh. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MARENA
Ma*re"na, n. Etym: [NL. Salmo maraena, G. maräne, moräne; -- so
called from Lake Morin, in the March of Brandenburg, in Prussia.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A European whitefish of the genus Coregonus.

MARESCHAL
Mare"schal, n. Etym: [OF. mareschal, F. maréchal. See Marshal.]

Defn: A military officer of high rank; a marshal. [Obs.]

MARE'S-NEST
Mare's"-nest`, n.

Defn: A supposed discovery which turns out to be a hoax; something
grosaly absurd.

MARE'S-TAIL
Mare's"-tail`, n.

1. A long streaky cloud, spreading out like a horse's tail, and
believed to indicate rain; a cirrus cloud. See Cloud.
Mackerel sky and mare's-tails Make tall ships carry low sails. Old
Rhyme.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An aquatic plant of the genus Hippuris (H.vulgaris), having
narrow leaves in whorls.

MARGARATE
Mar"ga*rate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. margarate.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A compound of the so-called margaric acid with a base.

MARGARIC
Mar*gar"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. margarique. See Margarite.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, pearl; pearly. Margaric acid. (a)
(Physiol. Chem.) A fatty body, crystallizing in pearly scales, and
obtained by digesting saponified fats (soaps) with an acid. It was
formerly supposed to be an individual fatty acid, but is now known to
be simply an intimate mixture of stearic and palmitic acids. (b)
(Chem.) A white, crystalline substance, C17H34O2 of the fatty acid
series, intermediate between palmitic and stearic acids, and obtained
from the wax of certain lichens, from cetyl cyanide, and other
sources.

MARGARIN
Mar"ga*rin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. margarine. See Margarite.] (Physiol.
Chem.)

Defn: A fatty substance, extracted from animal fats and certain
vegetable oils, formerly supposed to be a definite compound of
glycerin and margaric acid, but now known to be simply a mixture or
combination of tristearin and teipalmitin.

MARGARINE
Mar"ga*rine, n. [F.]

1. Artificial butter; oleomargarine.

The word margarine shall mean all substances, whether compounds or
otherwise, prepared in imitation of butter, and whether mixed with
butter or not.
Margarine Act, 1887 (50 & 51 Vict. c. 29).

2.  Margarin.

MARGARITACEOUS
Mar`ga*ri*ta"ceous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, pearl; pearly.

MARGARITE
Mar"ga*rite, n. Etym: [L. margarita, Gr. marguerite.]

1. A pearl. [Obs.] Peacham.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral related to the micas, but low in silica and yielding
brittle folia with pearly luster.

MARGARITIC
Mar`ga*rit"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. margaritique.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Margaric.

MARGARITIFEROUS
Mar`ga*ri*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. margaritifer; margarita pearl +
ferre to bear: cf. F. margaritifère.]

Defn: Producing pearls.

MARGARODITE
Mar*gar"o*dite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A hidrous potash mica related to muscovite.

MARGARONE
Mar"ga*rone, n. Etym: [Margaric + -one.] (Chem.)

Defn: The ketone of margaric acid.

MARGAROUS
Mar"ga*rous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Margaric; -- formerly designating a supposed acid. [Obs.]

MARGARYIZE; MARGARY'S FLUID
Mar"ga*ry*ize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -ized; p. pr. & vb. n. -izing.]
[(J. J. Lloyd) Margary, inventor of the process + -ize.]

Defn: To impregnate (wood) with a preservative solution of copper
sulphate (often called Mar"ga*ry's flu"id [-riz]).

MARGATE FISH
Mar"gate fish". (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sparoid fish (Diabasis aurolineatus) of the Gulf of Mexico,
esteemed as a food fish; -- called also red-mouth grunt.

MARGAY
Mar"gay, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American wild cat (Felis tigrina), ranging from Mexico to
Brazil. It is spotted with black. Called also long-tailed cat.

MARGE
Marge, n. Etym: [F. marge. See Margin.]

Defn: Border; margin; edge; verge. [Poetic] Tennyson.
Along the river's stony marge. Wordsworth.

MARGENT
Mar"gent, n. Etym: [OE. See Margin.]

Defn: A margin; border; brink; edge. [Obs.]
The beached margent of the sea. Shak.

MARGENT
Mar"gent, v. t.

Defn: To enter or note down upon the margin of a page; to margin.
[Obs.] Mir. for Mag.

MARGIN
Mar"gin, n. Etym: [OE. margine, margent, L. margo, ginis. Cf. March a
border, Marge.]

1. A border; edge; brink; verge; as, the margin of a river or lake.

2. Specifically: The part of a page at the edge left uncovered in
writing or printing.

3. (Com.)

Defn: The difference between the cost and the selling price of an
article.

4. Something allowed, or reserved, for that which can not be foreseen
or known with certainty.

5. (Brokerage)

Defn: Collateral security deposited with a broker to secure him from
loss on contracts entered into by him on behalf of his principial, as
in the speculative buying and selling of stocks, wheat, etc. N.
Biddle. Margin draft (Masonry), a smooth cut margin on the face of
hammer-dressed ashlar, adjacent to the joints.
 -- Margin of a course (Arch.), that part of a course, as of slates
or shingles, which is not covered by the course immediately above it.
See 2d Gauge.

Syn.
 -- Border; brink; verge; brim; rim.

MARGIN
Mar"gin, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Margined; p. pr. & vb. n. Marginging.]

1. To furnish with a margin.

2. To enter in the margin of a page.

MARGINAL
Mar"gin*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. marginal.]

1. Of or pertaining to a margin.

2. Written or printed in the margin; as, a marginal note or gloss.

MARGINALIA
Mar`gi*na"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Marginal notes.

MARGINALLY
Mar"gin*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the margin of a book.

MARGINATE
Mar"gin*ate, a. Etym: [L. marginatus, p. p. of marginare to margin.
See Margin, n.]

Defn: Having a margin distinct in appearance or structure.

MARGINATE
Mar"gin*ate, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with a distinct margin; to margin. [R.] Cockeram.

MARGINATED
Mar"gin*a`ted, a.

Defn: Same as Marginate, a.

MARGINED
Mar"gined, a.

1. Having a margin. Hawthorne.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Bordered with a distinct line of color.

MARGINELLA
Mar`gi*nel"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. margo, marginis, a margin.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small, polished, marine univalve shells, native of
all warm seas.

MARGINICIDAL
Mar"gin*i*ci`dal, a. Etym: [L. margo, -ginis, margin + caedere to
cut.] (Bot.)

Defn: Dehiscent by the separation of united carpels; -- said of
fruits.

MARGOSA
Mar*go"sa, n. Etym: [Pg. amargoso bitter.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large tree of genus Melia (M. Azadirachta) found in India.
Its bark is bitter, and used as a tonic. A valuable oil is expressed
from its seeds, and a tenacious gum exudes from its trunk. The M.
Azedarach is a much more showy tree, and is cultivated in the
Southern United States, where it is known as Pride of India, Pride of
China, or bead tree. Various parts of the tree are considered
anthelmintic.
The margosa oil . . . is a most valuable balsam for wounds, having a
peculiar smell which prevents the attacks of flies. Sir S. Baker.

MARGRAVATE; MARGRAVIATE
Mar"gra*vate, Mar*gra"vi*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. margraviat.]

Defn: The territory or jurisdiction of a margrave.

MARGRAVE
Mar"grave, n. Etym: [G. markgraf, prop., lord chief justice of the
march; mark bound, border, march + graf earl, count, lord chief
justice; cf. Goth. gagrëfts decree: cf. D. markgraaf, F. margrave.
See March border, and cf. Landgrave, Graff.]

1. Originally, a lord or keeper of the borders or marches in Germany.

2. The English equivalent of the German title of nobility, markgraf;
a marquis.

MARGRAVINE
Mar"gra*vine, n. Etym: [G. markgräfin: cf. F. margrafine.]

Defn: The wife of a margrave.

MARGUERITE
Mar"gue*rite, n. Etym: [F., a pearl, a daisy. See Margarite.] (Bot.)

Defn: The daisy (Bellis perennis). The name is often applied also to
the ox-eye daisy and to the China aster. Longfellow.

MARIAN
Ma"ri*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the Virgin Mary, or sometimes to Mary, Queen of
England, daughter of Henry VIII.
Of all the Marian martyrs, Mr. Philpot was the best-born gentleman.
Fuller.
Maid Marian. See Maidmarian in the Vocabulary.

MARIE
Mar"ie, interj.

Defn: Marry. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MARIET
Mar"i*et, n. Etym: [F. mariette, prop. dim. of Marie Mary.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of bellflower, Companula Trachelium, once called Viola
Mariana; but it is not a violet.

MARIGENOUS
Ma*rig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. mare the sea + -genous.]

Defn: Produced in or by the sea.

MARIGOLD
Mar"i*gold, n. Etym: [Mary + gold.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name for several plants with golden yellow blossoms,
especially the Calendula officinalis (see Calendula), and the
cultivated species of Tagetes.

Note: There are several yellow-flowered plants of different genera
bearing this name; as, the African or French marigold of the genus
Tagetes, of which several species and many varieties are found in
gardens. They are mostly strong-smelling herbs from South America and
Mexico: bur marigold, of the genus Bidens; corn marigold, of the
genus Chrysanthemum (C. segetum, a pest in the cornfields of Italy);
fig marigold, of the genus Mesembryanthemum; marsh marigold, of the
genus Caltha (C. palustris), commonly known in America as the
cowslip. See Marsh Marigold. Marigold window. (Arch.) See Rose
window, under Rose.

MARIKINA
Mar`i*ki"na, n. Etym: [From the native name: cf. Pg. mariquinha.]
(Zoöl)

Defn: A small marmoset (Midas rosalia); the silky tamarin.

MARIMBA
Ma*rim"ba, n. Etym: [Pg.]

Defn: A musical istrument of percussion, consisting of bars yielding
musical tones when struck. Knight.

MARIMONDA
Mar`i*mon"da, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth) of Central and South
America.

MARINADE
Mar`i*nade", n. Etym: [F.: cf. It. marinato marinade, F. mariner to
preserve food for use at sea. See Marinate.] (Cookery)

Defn: A brine or pickle containing wine and spices, for enriching the
flavor of meat and fish.

MARINATE
Mar"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [See Marine, and cf. Marinade.]

Defn: To salt or pickle, as fish, and then preserve in oil or
vinegar; to prepare by the use of marinade.

MARINE
Ma*rine", a. Etym: [L. marinus, fr. mare the sea: cf. F. marin. See
Mere a pool.]

1. Of or pertaining to the sea; having to do with the ocean, or with
navigation or naval affairs; nautical; as, marine productions or
bodies; marine shells; a marine engine.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Formed by the action of the currents or waves of the sea; as,
marine deposits. Marine acid (Chem.), hydrochloric acid. [Obs.] --
Marine barometer. See under Barometer.
 -- Marine corps, a corps formed of the officers, noncommissioned
officers, privates, and musicants of marines.
 -- Marine engine (Mech.), a steam engine for propelling a vessel.
 -- Marine glue. See under Glue.
 -- Marine insurance, insurance against the perils of the sea,
including also risks of fire, piracy, and barratry.
 -- Marine interest, interest at any rate agreed on for money lent
upon respondentia and bottomry bonds.
 -- Marine law. See under Law.
 -- Marine league, three geographical miles.
 -- Marine metal, an alloy of lead, antimony, and mercury, made for
sheathing ships. Mc Elrath.
 -- Marine soap, cocoanut oil soap; -- so called because, being quite
soluble in salt water, it is much used on shipboard.
 -- Marine store, a store where old canvas, ropes, etc., are bought
and sold; a junk shop. [Eng.]

MARINE
Ma*rine", n. Etym: [F. marin a sea solider, marine naval economy, a
marine picture, fr. L. marinus. See Marine, a.]

1. A solider serving on shipboard; a sea soldier; one of a body of
troops trained to do duty in the navy.

2. The sum of naval affairs; naval economy; the department of
navigation and sea forces; the collective shipping of a country; as,
the mercantile marine.

3. A picture representing some marine subject. Tell that to the
marines, an expression of disbelief, the marines being regarded by
sailors as credulous. [Colloq.]

MARINED
Ma*rined", a. Etym: [Cf. F. mariné.] (Her.)

Defn: Having the lower part of the body like a fish. Crabb.

MARINER
Mar"i*ner, n. Etym: [F. marinier, LL. marinarius. See Marine.]

Defn: One whose occupation is to assist in navigating ships; a seaman
or sailor. Chaucer. Mariner's compass. See under Compass.

MARINERSHIP
Mar"i*ner*ship, n.

Defn: Seamanship. [Obs.] Udalt.

MARINISM
Ma*ri"nism, n.

Defn: A bombastic literary style marked by the use of metaphors and
antitheses characteristic of the Italian poet Giambattista Marini
(1569-1625). -- Ma*ri"nist (#), n.

MARINORAMA
Mar`i*no*ra"ma, n. Etym: [NL., from L. marinus marine + Gr.

Defn: A representation of a sea view.

MARIOLATER
Ma`ri*ol"a*ter, n. Etym: [See Mariolatry.]

Defn: One who worships the Virgin Mary.

MARIOLATRY
Ma`ri*ol"a*try, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The worship of the Virgin Mary.

MARIONETTE
Mar`i*o*nette", n. Etym: [F. marionette, prop. a dim. of Marie Mary.]

1. A puppet moved by strings, as in a puppet show.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The buffel duck.

MARIOTTE'S LAW
Ma`ri*otte's law`. (Physics.)

Defn: See Boyle's law, under Law.

MARIPOSA LILY
Ma`ri*po"sa lil`y. Etym: [Sp. mariposa a butterfly + E. lily. So
called from the gay apperance of the blossoms.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of a genus (Calochortus) of tuliplike bulbous herbs with
large, and often gaycolored, blossoms. Called also butterfly lily.
Most of them are natives of California.

MARIPUT
Mar"i*put, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of civet; the zoril.

MARISH
Mar"ish, n. Etym: [Cf. F. marais, LL. marascus. See Marsh.]

Defn: Low, wet ground; a marsh; a fen; a bog; a moor. [Archaic]
Milton. Tennyson.

MARISH
Mar"ish, a.

1. Moory; fenny; boggy. [Archaic]

2. Growing in marshes. "Marish flowers." Tennyson.

MARITAL
Mar"i*tal, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. maritalis, fr. maritus belonging to
marriage, n., a husband. See Marry, v.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a husband; as, marital rights, duties,
authority. "Marital affection." Ayliffe.

MARITATED
Mar"i*ta`ted, a. Etym: [L. maritatus married.]

Defn: Having a husband; married. [Obs.]

MARITIMAL; MARITIMALE
Ma*rit"i*mal, Ma*rit"i*male, a.

Defn: See Maritime. [Obs.]

MARITIME
Mar"i*time, a. Etym: [L. maritimus, fr. mare the sea: cf. F.
maritime. See Mere a pool.]

1. Bordering on, or situated near, the ocean; connected with the sea
by site, interest, or power; having shipping and commerce or a navy;
as, maritime states. "A maritime town." Addison.

2. Of or pertaining to the ocean; marine; pertaining to navigation
and naval affairs, or to shipping and commerce by sea. "Maritime
service." Sir H. Wotton. Maritime law. See Law.
 -- Maritime loan, a loan secured by bottomry or respodentia bonds.
 -- Martime nations, nations having seaports, and using the sea more
or less for war or commerce.

MARJORAM
Mar"jo*ram, n. Etym: [OE. majoran, F. marjolaine, LL. marjoraca, fr.
L. amaracus, amaracum, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of mintlike plants (Origanum) comprising about twenty-
five species. The sweet marjoram (O. Majorana) is pecularly aromatic
and fragrant, and much used in cookery. The wild marjoram of Europe
and America is O. vulgare, far less fragrant than the other.

MARK
Mark, n.

Defn: A license of reprisals. See Marque.

MARK
Mark, n. Etym: [See 2d Marc.]

1. An old weight and coin. See Marc. "Lend me a mark." Chaucer.

2. The unit of monetary account of the German Empire, equal to 23.8
cents of United States money; the equivalent of one hundred pfennigs.
Also, a silver coin of this value.

MARK
Mark, n. Etym: [OE. marke, merke, AS. mearc; akin to D. merk, MHG.
marc, G. marke, Icel. mark, Dan. mærke; cf. Lith. margas party-
colored. sq. root106, 273. Cf. Remark.]

1. A visible sign or impression made or left upon anything; esp., a
line, point, stamp, figure, or the like, drawn or impressed, so as to
attract the attention and convey some information or intimation; a
token; a trace.
The Lord set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.
Gen. iv. 15.

2. Specifically:
(a) A character or device put on an article of merchandise by the
maker to show by whom it was made; a trade-mark.
(b) A character (usually a cross) made as a substitute for a
signature by one who can not write.
The mark of the artisan is found upon the most ancient fabrics that
have come to light. Knight.

3. A fixed object serving for guidance, as of a ship, a traveler, a
surveyor, etc.; as, a seamark, a landmark.

4. A trace, dot, line, imprint, or discoloration, although not
regarded as a token or sign; a scratch, scar, stain, etc.; as, this
pencil makes a fine mark.
I have some marks of yours upon my pate. Shak.

5. An evidence of presence, agency, or influence; a significative
token; a symptom; a trace; specifically, a permanent impression of
one's activity or character.
The confusion of tongues was a mark of separation. Bacon.

6. That toward which a missile is directed; a thing aimed at; what
one seeks to hit or reach.
France was a fairer mark to shoot at than Ireland. Davies.
Whate'er the motive, pleasure is the mark. Young.

7. Attention, regard, or respect.
As much in mock as mark. Shak.

8. Limit or standard of action or fact; as, to be within the mark; to
come up to the mark.

9. Badge or sign of honor, rank, or official station.
In the official marks invested, you Anon do meet the Senate. Shak.

10. Preëminence; high position; as, particians of mark; a fellow of
no mark.

11. (Logic)

Defn: A characteristic or essential attribute; a differential.

12. A number or other character used in registring; as, examination
marks; a mark for tardiness.

13. Image; likeness; hence, those formed in one's image; children;
descendants. [Obs.] "All the mark of Adam." Chaucer.

14. (Naut.)

Defn: One of the bits of leather or colored bunting which are placed
upon a sounding line at intervals of from two to five fathoms. The
unmarked fathoms are called "deeps." A man of mark, a conspicuous or
eminent man.
 -- To make one's mark. (a) To sign, as a letter or other writing, by
making a cross or other mark. (b) To make a distinct or lasting
impression on the public mind, or on affairs; to gain distinction.

Syn.
 -- Impress; impression; stamp; print; trace; vestige; track;
characteristic; evidence; proof; token; badge; indication; symptom.

MARK
Mark, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Marked; p. pr. & vb. n. Marking.] Etym:
[OE. marken, merken, AS. mearcian, from mearc. See Mark the sign.]

1. To put a mark upon; to affix a significant mark to; to make
recognizable by a mark; as, to mark a box or bale of merchandise; to
mark clothing.

2. To be a mark upon; to designate; to indicate; -- used literally
and figuratively; as, this monument marks the spot where Wolfe died;
his courage and energy marked him for a leader.

3. To leave a trace, scratch, scar, or other mark, upon, or any
evidence of action; as, a pencil marks paper; his hobnails marked the
floor.

4. To keep account of; to enumerate and register; as, to mark the
points in a game of billiards or cards.

5. To notice or observe; to give attention to; to take note of; to
remark; to heed; to regard. "Mark the perfect man." Ps. xxxvii. 37.
To mark out. (a) To designate, as by a mark; to select; as, the
ringleaders were marked out for punishment. (b) To obliterate or
cancel with a mark; as, to mark out an item in an account.
 -- To mark time (Mil.), to keep the time of a marching step by
moving the legs alternately without advancing.

Syn.
 -- To note; remark; notice; observe; regard; heed; show; evince;
indicate; point out; betoken; denote; characterize; stamp; imprint;
impress; brand.

MARK
Mark, v. i.

Defn: To take particular notice; to observe critically; to note; to
remark.
Mark, I pray you, and see how this man seeketh maschief. 1 Kings xx.
7.

MARKABLE
Mark"a*ble, a.

Defn: Remarkable. [Obs.] Sandys.

MARKED
Marked, a.

Defn: Designated or distinguished by, or as by, a mark; hence;
noticeable; conspicuous; as, a marked card; a marked coin; a marked
instance.
 -- Mark"ed*ly, adv. J. S. Mill. A marked man, a man who is noted by
a community, or by a part of it, as, for excellence or depravity; --
usually with an unfavorable suggestion.

MARKEE
Mar*kee", n.

Defn: See Marquee.

MARKER
Mark"er, n.

Defn: One who or that which marks. Specifically:
(a) One who keeps account of a game played, as of billiards.
(b) A counter used in card playing and other games.
(c) (Mil.) The soldier who forms the pilot of a wheeling column, or
marks the direction of an alignment.
(d) An attachment to a sewing machine for marking a line on the
fabric by creasing it.

MARKET
Mar"ket, n. Etym: [Akin to D. markt, OHG. markat, merkat, G. markt;
all fr.L. mercatus trade, market place, fr. mercari, p. p. mercatus,
to trade, traffic, merx, mercis, ware, merchandise, prob. akin to
merere to deserve, gain, acquire: cf. F. marché. See Merit, and cf.
Merchant, Mart.]

1. A meeting together of people, at a stated time and place, for the
purpose of traffic (as in cattle, provisions, wares, etc.) by private
purchase and sale, and not by auction; as, a market is held in the
town every week.
He is wit's peddler; and retails his wares At wakes, and wassails,
meetings, markets, fairs. Shak.
Three women and a goose make a market. Old Saying.

2. A public place (as an open space in a town) or a large building,
where a market is held; a market place or market house; esp., a place
where provisions are sold.
There is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool. John v. 2.

3. An opportunity for selling anything; demand, as shown by price
offered or obtainable; a town, region, or country, where the demand
exists; as, to find a market for one's wares; there is no market for
woolen cloths in that region; India is a market for English goods.
There is a third thing to be considered: how a market can be created
for produce, or how production can be limited to the capacities of
the market. J. S. Mill.

4. Exchange, or purchase and sale; traffic; as, a dull market; a slow
market.

5. The price for which a thing is sold in a market; market price.
Hence: Value; worth.
What is a man If his chief good and market of his time Be but to
sleep and feed Shak.

6. (Eng. Law)

Defn: The privelege granted to a town of having a public market.

Note: Market is often used adjectively, or in forming compounds of
obvious meaning; as, market basket, market day, market folk, market
house, marketman, market place, market price, market rate, market
wagon, market woman, and the like. Market beater, a swaggering bully;
a noisy braggart. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- Market bell, a bell rung to give notice that buying and selling
in a market may begin. [Eng.] Shak.
 -- Market cross, a cross set up where a market is held. Shak.
 -- Market garden, a garden in which vegetables are raised for
market.
 -- Market gardening, the raising of vegetables for market.
 -- Market place, an open square or place in a town where markets or
public sales are held.
 -- Market town, a town that has the privilege of a stated public
market.

MARKET
Mar"ket, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Marketed; p. pr. & vb. n. Marketing.]

Defn: To deal in a market; to buy or sell; to make bargains for
provisions or goods.

MARKET
Mar"ket, v. t.

Defn: To expose for sale in a market; to traffic in; to sell in a
market, and in an extended sense, to sell in any manner; as, most of
the farmes have marketed their crops.
Industrious merchants meet, and market there The world's collected
wealth. Southey.

MARKETABLE
Mar"ket*a*ble, a.

1. Fit to be offered for sale in a market; such as may be justly and
lawfully sold; as, dacayemarketable.

2. Current in market; as, marketable value.

3. Wanted by purchasers; salable; as, furs are not marketable in that
country.

MARKETABLENESS
Mar"ket*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being marketable.

MARKETER
Mar"ket*er, n.

Defn: One who attends a market to buy or sell; one who carries goods
to market.

MARKETING
Mar"ket*ing, n.

1. The act of selling or of purchasing in, or as in, a market.

2. Articles in, or from, a market; supplies.

MARKETSTEAD
Mar"ket*stead, n. Etym: [Market + stead a place.]

Defn: A market place. [Obs.] Drayton.

MARKHOOR
Mark"hoor`, n. Etym: [Per. mar-kh snake eater.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large wild goat (Capra megaceros), having huge flattened
spiral horns. It inhabits the mountains of Northern India and
Cashmere.

MARKING
Mark"ing, n.

Defn: The act of one who, or that which, marks; the mark or marks
made; arrangement or disposition of marks or coloring; as, the
marking of a bird's plumage. Marking ink, indelible ink, because used
in marking linen.
 -- Marking nut (Bot.), the nut of the Semecarpus Anacardium, an East
Indian tree. The shell of the nut yields a blackish resinous juice
used for marking cotton cloth, and an oil prepared from it is used
for rheumatism.

MARKIS
Mar"kis, n.

Defn: A marquis. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MARKISESSE
Mar"kis*esse, n.

Defn: A marchioness. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MARKMAN
Mark"man, n.

Defn: A marksman. [Obs.] Shak.

MARKSMAN
Marks"man, n.; pl. Marksmen. Etym: [Earlier markman; mark + man.]

1. One skillful to hit a mark with a missile; one who shoots well.

2. (Law)

Defn: One who makes his mark, instead of writing his name, in signing
documents. Burrill.

MARKSMANSHIP
Marks"man*ship, n.

Defn: Skill of a marksman.

MARL
Marl, v. t. Etym: [See Marline.] (Naut.)

Defn: To cover, as part of a rope, with marline, marking a pecular
hitch at each turn to prevent unwinding. Marling spike. (Naut.) See
under Marline.

MARL
Marl, n. Etym: [OF. marle, F. marne, LL. margila, dim. of L. marga
marl. Originally a Celtic word, according to Pliny, xvii. 7: "Quod
genus terræ Galli et Britanni margam vocant." sq. root274.]

Defn: A mixed earthy substance, consisting of carbonate of lime,
clay, and sand, in very varivble proportions, and accordingly
designated as calcareous, clayey, or sandy. See Greensand.

MARL
Marl, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Marled; p. pr. & vb. n. Marling.] Etym:
[Cf. F. marner. See Marl, n.]

Defn: To overspread or manure with marl; as, to marl a field.

MARLACEOUS
Mar*la"ceous, a.

Defn: Resembling marl; partaking of the qualities of marl.

MARLIN
Mar"lin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American great marbled godwit (Limosa fedoa). Applied also
to the red-breasted godwit (Limosa hæmatica). Hook-billed marlin, a
curlew.

MARLINE
Mar"line, n. Etym: [LG. marlien, marling, or D. marling, marlijn, fr.
D. marren to tie, prob. akin to E. moor, v., and lijn line: cf.F.
merlin. See Moor, v., Line.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small line composed of two strands a little twisted, used for
winding around ropes and cables, to prevent their being weakened by
fretting. Marline spike, Marling spike (Naut.), an iron tool tapering
to a point, used to separate the strands of a rope in splicing and in
marling. It has an eye in the thick end to which a lanyard is
attached. See Fid. [Written also marlin spike] -- Marline-spike bird.
Etym: [The name alludes to the long middle tail feathers.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A tropic bird. (b) A jager, or skua gull.

MARLINE
Mar"line, v. t. Etym: [F. merliner.] (Naut.)

Defn: To wind marline around; as, to marline a rope.

MARLITE
Marl"ite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. marlite. See Marl, n.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of marl.

MARLITIC
Mar*lit"ic, a.

Defn: Partaking of the qualites of marlite.

MARLPIT
Marl"pit`, n.

Defn: Apit where marl is dug.

MARLSTONE
Marl"stone`, n. (Geol.)

Defn: A sandy calcareous straum, containing, or impregnated with,
iron, and lying between the upper and lower Lias of England.

MARLY
Marl"y, a. [Compar. Marlier; superl. Marliest.]

Defn: Consisting or partaking of marl; resembling marl; abounding
with marl.

MARMALADE
Mar"ma*lade, n. Etym: [F. marmelade, Pg. marmelada, fr. marmélo a
quince, fr. L. melimelum honey apple, Gr. Mellifluous, Melon.]

Defn: A preserve or confection made of the pulp of fruit, as the
quince, pear, apple, orange, etc., boiled with sugar, and brought to
a jamlike consistence. Marmalade tree (Bot.), a sapotaceous tree
(Lucuma mammosa) of the West Indies and Tropical America. It has
large obovate leaves and an egg-shaped fruit from three to five
inches long, containing a pleasant-flavored pulp and a single large
seed. The fruit is called marmalade, or natural marmalade, from its
consistency and flavor.

MARMALET
Mar"ma*let`, n.

Defn: See Marmalade. [Obs.]

MARMATITE
Mar"ma*tite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. marmatite.] (Min.)

Defn: A ferruginous variety of shalerite or zinc blende, nearly black
in color.

MARMOLITE
Mar"mo*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A thin, laminated variety of serpentine, usually of a pale
green color.

MARMORACEOUS
Mar`mo*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [L. marmor marble. See Marble.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, marble.

MARMORATE; MARMORATED
Mar"mo*rate, Mar"mo*ra`ted, a. Etym: [L. marmoratus, p. p. of
marmorate to overlay with marble, fr. marmor marble.]

Defn: Variegated like marble; covered or overlaid with marble. [R.]

MARMORATION
Mar`mo*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. marmoratio.]

Defn: A covering or incrusting with marble; a casing of marble; a
variegating so as to resemble marble. [R.]

MARMORATUM OPUS
Mar`mo*ra`tum o"pus. Etym: [L. See Marmorate, and Opus.] (Arch.)

Defn: A kind of hard finish for plasterwork, made of plaster of Paris
and marble dust, and capable of taking a high polish.

MARMOREAL; MARMOREAN
Mar*mo"re*al, Mar*mo"re*an, a. Etym: [L. marmoreus, fr. marmor
marble: cf. F. marmoréen. See Marble.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, marble; made of marble.

MARMOROSIS
Mar`mo*ro"sis, n. Etym: [NL.] (Geol.)

Defn: The metamorphism of limestone, that is, its conversion into
marble. Geikie.

MARMOSE
Mar"mose`, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of small opossum (Didelphus murina) ranging from
Mexico to Brazil.

MARMOSET
Mar"mo*set`, n. Etym: [F. marmouset a grotesque figure, an ugly
little boy, prob. fr. LL. marmoretum, fr. L. marmor marble. Perhaps
confused with marmot. See Marble.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small South American monkeys of
the genera Hapale and Midas, family Hapalidæ. They have long soft
fur, and a hairy, nonprehensile tail. They are often kept as pets.
Called also squirrel monkey.

MARMOT
Mar"mot, n. Etym: [It. marmotta, marmotto, prob. fr. L. mus montanus,
or mus montis, lit., mountain mouse or rat. See Mountain, and Mouse.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any rodent of the genus Arctomys. The common European marmot
(A. marmotta) is about the size of a rabbit, and inhabits the higher
regions of the Alps and Pyrenees. The bobac is another European
species. The common American species (A. monax) is the woodchuck.

2. Any one of several species of ground squirrels or gophers of the
genus Spermophilus; also, the prairie dog. Marmot squirrel (Zoöl.), a
ground squirrel or spermophile.
 -- Prairie marmot. See Prairie dog.

MARMOTTES OIL
Mar"mottes oil`

Defn: . A fine oil obtained from the kernel of Prunus brigantiaca. It
is used instead of olive or almond oil. De Colange.

MARMOZET
Mar"mo*zet`, n.

Defn: See Marmoset.

MARONE
Ma*rone", n.

Defn: See Maroon, the color.

MARONITE
Mar"o*nite, n.; pl. Maronites (. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a body of nominal Christians, who speak the Arabic
language, and reside on Mount Lebanon and in different parts of
Syria. They take their name from one Maron of the 6th century.

MAROON
Ma*roon", n. [Written also marroon.] Etym: [F. marron, abbrev. fr.
Sp. cimarron wild, unruly, from cima the summit of a mountain; hence,
negro cimarron a runaway negro that lives in the mountains.]

Defn: In the West Indies and Guiana, a fugitive slave, or a free
negro, living in the mountains.

MAROON
Ma*roon", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Marooned; p. pr. & vb. n. Marooning.]
Etym: [See Maroon a fugitive slave.]

Defn: To put (a person) ashore on a desolate island or coast and
leave him to his fate. Marooning party, a social excursion party that
sojourns several days on the shore or in some retired place; a
prolonged picnic. [Southern U. S.] Bartlett.

MAROON
Ma*roon", a. Etym: [F. marron chestnut-colored, fr. marron a large
French chestnut, It. marrone; cf. LGr. Marron.]

Defn: Having the color called maroon. See 4th Maroon. Maroon lake,
lake prepared from madder, and distinguished for its transparency and
the depth and durability of its color.

MAROON
Ma*roon", n.

1. A brownish or dull red of any description, esp. of a scarlet cast
rather than approaching crimson or purple.

2. An explosive shell. See Marron, 3.

MARPLOT
Mar"plot`, n.

Defn: One who, by his officious

MARQUE
Marque, n. Etym: [F. marque, in lettre de marque letter of marque, a
commission with which the commandant of every armed vessel was
obliged to be provided, under penalty of being considered a pirate or
corsair; marque here prob. meaning, border, boundary (the letter of
marque being a permission to go beyond the border), and of German
origin. See March border.] (Law)

Defn: A license to pass the limits of a jurisdiction, or boundary of
a country, for the purpose of making reprisals. Letters of marque,
Letters of marque and reprisal, a license or extraordinary commission
granted by a government to a private person to fit out a privateer or
armed ship to cruise at sea and make prize of the enemy's ships and
merchandise. The ship so commissioned is sometimes called a letter of
marque.

MARQUEE
Mar*quee", n. Etym: [F. marquise, misunderstood as a plural; prob.
orig., tent of the marchioness. See Marquis.]

Defn: A large field tent; esp., one adapted to the use of an officer
of high rank. [Written also markee.]

MARQUESS
Mar"quess, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. marques. See Marquis.]

Defn: A marquis. Lady marquess, a marchioness. [Obs.] Shak.

MARQUETRY
Mar"quet*ry, n. Etym: [F. marqueterie, from marqueter to checker,
inlay, fr. marque mark, sign; of German origin. See Mark a sign.]

Defn: Inlaid work; work inlaid with pieces of wood, shells, ivory,
and the like, of several colors.

MARQUIS
Mar"quis, n. Etym: [F. marquis, OF. markis, marchis, LL. marchensis;
of German origin; cf. G. mark bound, border, march, OHG. marcha. See
March border, and cf. Marchioness, Marquee, Marquess.]

Defn: A nobleman in England, France, and Germany, of a rank next
below that of duke. Originally, the marquis was an officer whose duty
was to guard the marches or frontiers of the kingdom. The office has
ceased, and the name is now a mere title conferred by patent.

MARQUISATE
Mar"quis*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. marquisat.]

Defn: The seigniory, dignity, or lordship of a marquis; the territory
governed by a marquis.

MARQUISDOM
Mar"quis*dom, n.

Defn: A marquisate. [Obs.] "Nobles of the marquisdom of Saluce."
Holinshed.

MARQUISE
Mar`quise", n. Etym: [F. See Marquis, and cf. Marquee.]

Defn: The wife of a marquis; a marchioness.

MARQUISSHIP
Mar"quis*ship, n.

Defn: A marquisate.

MARRAM
Mar"ram, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A coarse grass found on sandy beaches (Ammophila arundinacea).
See Beach grass, under Beach.

MARRER
Mar"rer, n.

Defn: One who mars or injures.

MARRIABLE
Mar"ri*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mariable.]

Defn: Marriageable. [R.] Coleridge.

MARRIAGE
Mar"riage, n. Etym: [OE. mariage, F. mariage. See Marry, v. t.]

1. The act of marrying, or the state of being married; legal union of
a man and a woman for life, as husband and wife; wedlock; matrimony.
Marriage is honorable in all. Heb. xiii. 4.

2. The marriage vow or contract. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. A feast made on the occasion of a marriage.
The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king which made a
marriage for his son. Matt. xxii. 2.

4. Any intimate or close union. Marriage brokage. (a) The business of
bringing about marriages. (b) The payment made or demanded for the
procurement of a marriage.
 -- Marriage favors, knots of white ribbons, or bunches of white
flowers, worn at weddings.
 -- Marriage settlement (Law), a settlement of property in view, and
in consideration, of marriage.

Syn.
 -- Matrimony; wedlock; wedding; nuptials.
 -- Marriage, Matrimony, Wedlock. Marriage is properly the act which
unites the two parties, and matrimony the state into which they
enter. Marriage is, however, often used for the state as well as the
act. Wedlock is the old Anglo-Saxon term for matrimony.

MARRIAGEABILITY
Mar`riage*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being marriageable.

MARRIAGEABLE
Mar"riage*a*ble, a.

Defn: Fit for, or capable of, marriage; of an age at which marriage
is allowable.
 -- Mar"riage*a*ble*ness, n.

MARRIED
Mar"ried, a.

1. Being in the state of matrimony; wedded; as, a married man or
woman.

2. Of or pertaining to marriage; connubial; as, the married state.

MARRIER
Mar"ri*er, n.

Defn: One who marries.

MARRON
Mar*ron", n. Etym: [See Maroon, a.]

1. A large chestnut. [Obs.] Holland.

2. A chestnut color; maroon.

3. (Pyrotechny & Mil.)

Defn: A paper or pasteboard box or shell, wound about with strong
twine, filled with an explosive, and ignited with a fuse, -- used to
make a noise like a cannon. [Written also maroon.]

MARROON
Mar*roon", n. & a.

Defn: Same as 1st Maroon.

MARROT
Mar"rot, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The razor-billed auk. See Auk.
(b) The common guillemot.
(c) The puffin. [Prov. Eng.] [Written also marrott, and morrot.]

MARROW
Mar"row, n. Etym: [OE. marou, mary, maruh, AS. mearg, mearh; akin to
OS. marg, D. merg, G. Mark, OHG. marg, marag, Icel. mergr, Sw. merg,
Dan. marv, Skr. majjan; cf. Skr. majj to sink, L. mergere. sq.
root274 Cf. Merge.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The tissue which fills the cavities of most bones; the medulla.
In the larger cavities it is commonly very fatty, but in the smaller
cavities it is much less fatty, and red or reddish in color.

2. The essence; the best part.
It takes from our achievements . . . The pith and marrow of our
attribute. Shak.

3. Etym: [OE. maru, maro; -- perh. a different word; cf. Gael. maraon
together.]

Defn: One of a pair; a match; a companion; an intimate associate.
[Scot.]
Chopping and changing I can not commend, With thief or his marrow,
for fear of ill end. Tusser.
Marrow squash (Bot.), a name given to several varieties of squash,
esp. to the Boston marrow, an ovoid fruit, pointed at both ends, and
with reddish yellow flesh, and to the vegetable marrow, a variety of
an ovoid form, and having a soft texture and fine grain resembling
marrow.
 -- Spinal marrow. (Anat.) See Spinal cord, under Spinal.

MARROW
Mar"row, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Marrowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Marrowing.]

Defn: To fill with, or as with, marrow of fat; to glut.

MARROWBONE
Mar"row*bone`, n.

Defn: A bone containing marrow; pl. ludicrously, knee bones or knees;
as, to get down on one's marrowbones, i. e., to kneel.

MARROWFAT
Mar"row*fat, n.

Defn: A rich but late variety of pea.

MARROWISH
Mar"row*ish, a.

Defn: Of the nature of, or like, marrow.

MARROWLESS
Mar"row*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of marrow.

MARROWY
Mar"row*y, a.

Defn: Full of marrow; pithy.

MARRUBIUM
Mar*ru"bi*um, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of bitter aromatic plants, sometimes used in medicine;
hoarhound.

MARRY
Mar"ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Married; p. pr. & vb. n. Marrying.] Etym:
[OE. marien, F. marier, L. maritare, fr. maritus husband, fr. mas,
maris, a male. See Male, and cf. Maritral.]

1. To unite in wedlock or matrimony; to perform the ceremony of
joining, as a man and a woman, for life; to constitute (a man and a
woman) husband and wife according to the laws or customs of the
place.
Tell him that he shall marry the couple himself. Gay.

2. To join according to law, (a man) to a woman as his wife, or (a
woman) to a man as her husband. See the Note to def. 4.
A woman who had been married to her twenty-fifth husband, and being
now a widow, was prohibited to marry. Evelyn.

3. To dispose of in wedlock; to give away as wife.
Mæcenas took the liberty to tell him [Augustus] that he must either
marry his daughter [Julia] to Agrippa, or take away his life. Bacon.

4. To take for husband or wife. See the Note below.

Note: We say, a man is married to or marries a woman; or, a woman is
married to or marries a man. Both of these uses are equally well
authorized; but given in marriage is said only of the woman.
They got him [the Duke of Monmouth] . . . to declare in writing, that
the last king [Charles II.] told him he was never married to his
mother. Bp. Lloyd.

5. Figuratively, to unite in the closest and most endearing relation.
Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord; for I am married unto
you. Jer. iii. 14.
To marry ropes. (Naut.) (a) To place two ropes along side of each
other so that they may be grasped and hauled on at the same time. (b)
To join two ropes end to end so that both will pass through a block.
Ham. Nav. Encyc.

MARRY
Mar"ry, v. i.

Defn: To enter into the conjugal or connubial state; to take a
husband or a wife.
I will, therefore, that the younger women marry. 1 Tim. v. 14.
Marrrying man, a man disposed to marry. [Colloq.]

MARRY
Mar"ry, interj.

Defn: Indeed ! in truth ! -- a term of asseveration said to have been
derived from the practice of swearing by the Virgin Mary. [Obs.]
Shak.

MARS
Mars, n. Etym: [L. Mars, gen. Martis, archaic Mavors, gen. Mavortis.]

1. (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: The god of war and husbandry.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the planets of the solar system, the fourth in order
from the sun, or the next beyond the earth, having a diameter of
about 4,200 miles, a period of 687 days, and a mean distance of
141,000,000 miles. It is conspicuous for the redness of its light.

3. (Alchemy)

Defn: The metallic element iron, the symbol of which was the same as
that of the planet Mars. [Archaic] Chaucer. Mars brown, a bright,
somewhat yellowish, brown.

MARSALA
Mar*sa"la, n. Etym: [It., fr. Marsala, in Sicyly.]

Defn: A kind of wine exported from Marsala in Sicily.

MARSDENIA
Mars*de"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL. From W. Marsden, an English author.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the Milkweed family, mostly woody climbers
with fragrant flowers, several species of which furnish valuable
fiber, and one species (Marsdenia tinctoria) affords indigo.

MARSEILLAIS; MARSEILLAISE
Mar`sei`llais", a. m. Mar`sei`llaise", a. f.Etym: [F.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Marseilles, in France, or to its
inhabitants. Marseillaise hymn, or The Marseillaise, the national
anthem of France, popularly so called. It was composed in 1792, by
Rouget de l'Isle, an officer then stationed at Strasburg. In Paris it
was sung for the first time by the band of men who came from
Marseilles to aid in the revolution of August 10, 1792; whence the
name.

MARSEILLAIS; MARSEILLAISE
Mar`sei`llais", n. m. Mar`sei`llaise", n. f.Etym: [F.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Marseilles.

MARSEILLES
Mar*seilles", n.

Defn: A general term for certain kinds of fabrics, which are formed
of two series of threads interlacing each other, thus forming double
cloth, quilted in the loom; -- so named because first made in
Marseilles, France.

MARSH
Marsh, n. Etym: [OE. mersch, AS. mersc, fr. mere lake. See Mere pool,
and cf. Marish, Morass.]

Defn: A tract of soft wet land, commonly covered partially or wholly
with water; a fen; a swamp; a morass. [Written also marish.] Marsh
asphodel (Bot.), a plant (Nartheeium ossifragum) with linear equitant
leaves, and a raceme of small white flowers; -- called also bog
asphodel.
 -- Marsh cinquefoil (Bot.), a plant (Potentilla palustris) having
purple flowers, and found growing in marshy places; marsh five-
finger.
 -- Marsh elder. (Bot.) (a) The guelder-rose or cranberry tree
(Viburnum Opulus). (b) In the United States, a composite shrub
growing in salt marshes (Iva frutescens).
 -- Marsh five-finger. (Bot.) See Marsh cinquefoil (above).
 -- Marsh gas. (Chem.) See under Gas.
 -- Marsh grass (Bot.), a genus (Spartina) of coarse grasses growing
in marshes; -- called also cord grass. The tall S. cynosuroides is
not good for hay unless cut very young. The low S. juncea is a common
component of salt hay.
 -- Marsh harrier (Zoöl.), a European hawk or harrier (Circus
æruginosus); -- called also marsh hawk, moor hawk, moor buzzard,
puttock.
 -- Marsh hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) A hawk or harrier (Circus cyaneus),
native of both America and Europe. The adults are bluish slate above,
with a white rump. Called also hen harrier, and mouse hawk. (b) The
marsh harrier.
 -- Marsh hen (Zoöl.), a rail; esp., Rallus elegans of fresh-water
marshes, and R. longirostris of salt-water marshes.
 -- Marsh mallow (Bot.), a plant of the genus Althæa ( A.
officinalis) common in marshes near the seashore, and whose root is
much used in medicine as a demulcent.
 -- Marsh marigold. (Bot.) See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Marsh pennywort (Bot.), any plant of the umbelliferous genus
Hydrocotyle; low herbs with roundish leaves, growing in wet places; -
- called also water pennywort.
 -- Marsh quail (Zoöl.), the meadow lark.
 -- Marsh rosemary (Bot.), a plant of the genus Statice (S.
Limonium), common in salt marshes. Its root is powerfully astringent,
and is sometimes used in medicine. Called also sea lavender.
 -- Marsh samphire (Bot.), a plant (Salicornia herbacea) found along
seacoasts. See Glasswort.
 -- Marsh St. John's-wort (Bot.), an American herb (Elodes Virginica)
with small opposite leaves and flesh-colored flowers.
 -- Marsh tea. (Bot.). Same as Labrador tea.
 -- Marsh trefoil. (Bot.) Same as Buckbean.
 -- Marsh wren (Zoöl.), any species of small American wrens of the
genus Cistothorus, and allied genera. They chiefly inhabit salt
marshes.

MARSHAL
Mar"shal, n. Etym: [OE. mareschal, OF. mareschal, F. maréchal, LL.
mariscalcus, from OHG. marah-scalc (G. marschall); marah horse +
scalc servant (akin to AS. scealc, Goth. skalks). F. maréchal
signifies, a marshal, and a farrier. See Mare horse, and cf.
Seneschal.]

1. Originally, an officer who had the care of horses; a groom. [Obs.]

2. An officer of high rank, charged with the arrangement of
ceremonies, the conduct of operations, or the like; as, specifically:
(a) One who goes before a prince to declare his coming and provide
entertainment; a harbinger; a pursuivant.
(b) One who regulates rank and order at a feast or any other
assembly, directs the order of procession, and the like.
(c) The chief officer of arms, whose duty it was, in ancient times,
to regulate combats in the lists. Johnson.
(d) (France) The highest military officer. In other countries of
Europe a marshal is a military officer of high rank, and called field
marshal.
(e) (Am. Law) A ministerial officer, appointed for each judicial
district of the United States, to execute the process of the courts
of the United States, and perform various duties, similar to those of
a sheriff. The name is also sometimes applied to certain police
officers of a city. Earl marshal of England, the eighth officer of
state; an honorary title, and personal, until made hereditary in the
family of the Duke of Norfolk. During a vacancy in the office of high
constable, the earl marshal has jurisdiction in the court of
chivalry. Brande & C.
 -- Earl marshal of Scotland, an officer who had command of the
cavalry under the constable. This office was held by the family of
Keith, but forfeited by rebellion in 1715.
 -- Knight marshal, or Marshal of the King's house, formerly, in
England, the marshal of the king's house, who was authorized to hear
and determine all pleas of the Crown, to punish faults committed
within the verge, etc. His court was called the Court of Marshalsea.
 -- Marshal of the Queen's Bench, formerly the title of the officer
who had the custody of the Queen's bench prison in Southwark. Mozley
& W.

MARSHAL
Mar"shal, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Marshaled or Marshalled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Marshaling or Marshalling.]

1. To dispose in order; to arrange in a suitable manner; as, to
marshal troops or an army.
And marshaling the heroes of his name As, in their order, next to
light they came. Dryden.

2. To direct, guide, or lead.
Thou marshalest me the way that I was going. Shak.

3. (Her.)

Defn: To dispose in due order, as the different quarterings on an
escutcheon, or the different crests when several belong to an
achievement.

MARSHALER
Mar"shal*er, n. Etym: [Written also marshaller.]

Defn: One who marshals.

MARSHALING
Mar"shal*ing, n. Etym: [Written also marshalling.]

1. The act of arranging in due order.

2. (Her.)

Defn: The arrangement of an escutcheon to exhibit the alliances of
the owner. Marshaling of assets (Law), the arranging or ranking of
assets in due order of administration.

MARSHALSEA
Mar"shal*sea, n. Etym: [Marshal + OE. se a seat. See See a seat.]

Defn: The court or seat of a marshal; hence, the prison in Southwark,
belonging to the marshal of the king's household. [Eng.] Court of
Marshalsea, a court formerly held before the steward and marshal of
the king's house to administer justice between the king's domestic
servants. Blackstone.

MARSHALSHIP
Mar"shal*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a marshal.

MARSHBANKER; MARSEBANKER
Marsh"bank`er, Marse"bank`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The menhaden.

MARSHINESS
Marsh"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being marshy.

MARSH MARIGOLD
Marsh mar"i*gold

Defn: . (Bot.) A perennial plant of the genus Caltha (C. palustris),
growing in wet places and bearing bright yellow flowers. In the
United States it is used as a pot herb under the name of cowslip. See
Cowslip.

MARSHY
Marsh"y, a. Etym: [E. Marsh.]

1. Resembling a marsh; wet; boggy; fenny.

2. Pertaining to, or produced in, marshes; as, a marshy weed. Dryden.

MARSIPOBRANCH
Mar"si*po*branch`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Marsipobranchia.

MARSIPOBRANCHIA
Mar"si*po*bran"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of Vertebrata, lower than fishes, characterized by
their purselike gill cavities, cartilaginous skeletons, absence of
limbs, and a suckerlike mouth destitute of jaws. It includes the
lampreys and hagfishes. See Cyclostoma, and Lamprey. Called also
Marsipobranchiata, and Marsipobranchii.

MARSUPIAL
Mar*su"pi*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. marsupial.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a pouch for carrying the immature young; of or
pertaining to the Marsupialia.

2. (Anat. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a marsupium; as, the marsupial bones.
Marsupial frog. (Zoöl.) See Nototrema.

MARSUPIAL
Mar*su"pi*al, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Marsupialia.

MARSUPIALIA
Mar*su`pi*a"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. marsupium a pouch, bag,
purse, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A subclass of Mammalia, including nearly all the mammals of
Australia and the adjacent islands, together with the opossums of
America. They differ from ordinary mammals in having the corpus
callosum very small, in being implacental, and in having their young
born while very immature. The female generally carries the young for
some time after birth in an external pouch, or marsupium. Called also
Marsupiata.

MARSUPIALIAN; MARSUPIAN
Mar*su`pi*a"li*an, Mar*su"pi*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Marsupialia.

MARSUPIATE
Mar*su"pi*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Related to or resembling the marsupials; furnished with a pouch
for the young, as the marsupials, and also some fishes and Crustacea.

MARSUPION
Mar*su"pi*on, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Same as Marsupium.

MARSUPITE
Mar"su*pite, n. Etym: [See Marsupial.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil crinoid of the genus Marsupites, resembling a purse in
form.

MARSUPIUM
Mar*su"pi*um, n.; pl. Marsupia. Etym: [L., a pouch], (Anat. & Zoöl.)
(a) The pouch, formed by a fold of the skin of the abdomen, in which
marsupials carry their young; also, a pouch for similar use in other
animals, as certain Crustacea.
(b) The pecten in the eye of birds and reptiles. See Pecten.

MART
Mart, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. market.]

1. A market.
Where has commerce such a mart . . . as London Cowper.

2. A bargain. [Obs.] Shak.

MART
Mart, v. t.

Defn: To buy or sell in, or as in, a mart. [Obs.]
To sell and mart your officer for gold To undeservers. Shak.

MART
Mart, v. t.

Defn: To traffic. [Obs.] Shak.

MART
Mart, n. Etym: [See Mars.]

1. The god Mars. [Obs.]

2. Battle; contest. [Obs.] Fairfax.

MARTAGON
Mar"ta*gon, n. Etym: [Cf. F. & Sp. martagon, It. martagone.] (Bot.)

Defn: A lily (Lilium Martagon) with purplish red flowers, found in
Europe and Asia.

MARTEL
Mar"tel, v. i. Etym: [F. marteler, fr. martel, marteau, hammer, a
dim. fr. L. martulus, marculus, dim. of marcus hammer. Cf. March to
step.]

Defn: To make a blow with, or as with, a hammer. [Obs.] Spenser.

MARTEL DE FER
Mar`tel` de fer". Etym: [OF., hammer of iron.]

Defn: A weapon resembling a hammer, often having one side of the head
pointed; -- used by horsemen in the Middle Ages to break armor.
Fairholt.

MARTELINE
Mar"te*line, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A small hammer used by marble workers and sculptors.

MARTELLO TOWER
Mar*tel"lo tow`er. Etym: [It. martello hammer. The name was orig.
given to towers erected on the coasts of Sicily and Sardinia for
protection against the pirates in the time of Charles the Fifth,
which prob. orig. contained an alarm bell to be struck with a hammer.
See Martel.] (Fort.)

Defn: A building of masonry, generally circular, usually erected on
the seacoast, with a gun on the summit mounted on a traversing
platform, so as to be fired in any direction.

Note: The English borrowed the name of the tower from Corsica in
1794.

MARTEN
Mar"ten, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird. See Martin.

MARTEN
Mar"ten, n. Etym: [From older martern, marter, martre, F. martre,
marte, LL. martures (pl.), fr. L. martes; akin to AS. mear, meard, G.
marder, OHG. mardar, Icel. mör. Cf. Foumart.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several fur-bearing carnivores of the genus Mustela,
closely allied to the sable. Among the more important species are the
European beech, or stone, marten (Mustela foina); the pine marten (M.
martes); and the American marten, or sable (M. Americana), which some
zoölogists consider only a variety of the Russian sable.

2. The fur of the marten, used for hats, muffs, etc.

MARTERN
Mar"tern, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Marten. [Obs.]

MAR-TEXT
Mar"-text`, n.

Defn: A blundering preacher.

MARTIAL
Mar"tial, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. martialis of or belonging to Mars, the
god of war. Cf. March the month.]

1. Of, pertaining to, or suited for, war; military; as, martial
music; a martial appearance. "Martial equipage." Milton.

2. Practiced in, or inclined to, war; warlike; brave.
But peaceful kings, o'er martial people set, Each other's poise and
counterbalance are. Dryden.

3. Belonging to war, or to an army and navy; -- opposed to civil; as,
martial law; a court-martial.

4. Pertaining to, or resembling, the god, or the planet, Mars. Sir T.
Browne.

5. (Old Chem. & Old Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, iron; chalybeate; as, martial
preparations. [Archaic] Martial flowers (Med.), a reddish crystalline
salt of iron; the ammonio-chloride of iron. [Obs.] -- Martial law,
the law administered by the military power of a government when it
has superseded the civil authority in time of war, or when the civil
authorities are unable to enforce the laws. It is distinguished from
military law, the latter being the code of rules for the regulation
of the army and navy alone, either in peace or in war.

Syn.
 -- Martial, Warlike. Martial refers more to war in action, its
array, its attendants, etc.; as, martial music, a martial appearance,
a martial array, courts-martial, etc. Warlike describes the feeling
or temper which leads to war, and the adjuncts of war; as, a warlike
nation, warlike indication, etc. The two words are often used without
discrimination.

MARTIALISM
Mar"tial*ism, n.

Defn: The quality of being warlike; exercises suitable for war.
[Obs.]

MARTIALIST
Mar"tial*ist, n.

Defn: A warrior. [Obs.] Fuller.

MARTIALIZE
Mar"tial*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Martialized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Martializing.]

Defn: To render warlike; as, to martialize a people.

MARTIALLY
Mar"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a martial manner.

MARTIALNESS
Mar"tial*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being martial.

MARTIAN
Mar"tian, a. [L. Martius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Mars, the Roman god of war, or to the
planet bearing his name; martial.

MARTIAN
Mar"tian, n.

Defn: An inhabitant of the planet Mars.  Du Maurier.

MARTIN
Mar"tin, n. (Stone Working) Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A perforated stone-faced runner for grinding.

MARTIN
Mar"tin, n. Etym: [F. martin, from the proper name Martin. Cf.
Martlet.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of swallows, usually having the tail
less deeply forked than the tail of the common swallows. [Written
also marten.]

Note: The American purple martin, or bee martin (Progne subis, or
purpurea), and the European house, or window, martin (Hirundo, or
Chelidon, urbica), are the best known species. Bank martin. (a) The
bank swallow. See under Bank. (b) The fairy martin. See under Fairy.
 -- Bee martin. (a) The purple martin. (b) The kingbird.
 -- Sand martin, the bank swallow.

MARTINET
Mar"ti*net`, n. Etym: [So called from an officer of that name in the
French army under Louis XIV. Cf. Martin the bird, Martlet.]

Defn: In military language, a strict disciplinarian; in general, one
who lays stress on a rigid adherence to the details of discipline, or
to forms and fixed methods. [Hence, the word is commonly employed in
a depreciatory sense.]

MARTINET
Mar"ti*net`, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The martin.

MARTINETA
Mar`ti*ne"ta, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. martinete.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of tinamou (Calopezus elegans), having a long slender
crest.

MARTINETISM
Mar"ti*net`ism, n.

Defn: The principles or practices of a martinet; rigid adherence to
discipline, etc.

MARTINGALE; MARTINGAL
Mar"tin*gale, Mar"tin*gal, n. Etym: [F. martingale; cf. It.
martingala a sort of hose, martingale, Sp. martingala a greave,
cuish, martingale, Sp. almártaga a kind of bridle.]

1. A strap fastened to a horse's girth, passing between his fore
legs, and fastened to the bit, or now more commonly ending in two
rings, through which the reins pass. It is intended to hold down the
head of the horse, and prevent him from rearing.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A lower stay of rope or chain for the jib boom or flying jib
boom, fastened to, or reeved through, the dolphin striker. Also, the
dolphin striker itself.

3. (Gambling)

Defn: The act of doubling, at each stake, that which has been lost on
the preceding stake; also, the sum so risked; -- metaphorically
derived from the bifurcation of the martingale of a harness. [Cant]
Thackeray.

MARTINMAS
Mar"tin*mas, n. Etym: [St. Martin + mass religious service.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The feast of St. Martin, the eleventh of November; -- often
called martlemans. Martinmas summer, a period of calm, warm weather
often experienced about the time of Martinmas; Indian summer. Percy
Smith.

MARTITE
Mar"tite, n. Etym: [L. Mars, Martis, the god Mars, the alchemical
name of iron.] (Min.)

Defn: Iron sesquioxide in isometric form, probably a pseudomorph
after magnetite.

MARTLEMAS
Mar"tle*mas, n.

Defn: See Martinmas. [Obs.]

MARTLET
Mart"let, n. Etym: [F. martinet. See Martin the bird, and cf.
Martinet a disciplinarian.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European house martin.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. merlette.] (Her.)

Defn: A bird without beak or feet; -- generally assumed to represent
a martin. As a mark of cadency it denotes the fourth son.

MARTYR
Mar"tyr, n. Etym: [AS., from L. martyr, Gr. ma`rtyr, ma`rtys, prop.,
a witness; cf. Skr. smrs to remember, E. memory.]

1. One who, by his death, bears witness to the truth of the gospel;
one who is put to death for his religion; as, Stephen was the first
Christian martyr. Chaucer.
To be a martyr, signifies only to witness the truth of Christ; but
the witnessing of the truth was then so generally attended with
persecution, that martyrdom now signifies not only to witness, but to
witness by death South.

2. Hence, one who sacrifices his life, his station, or what is of
great value to him, for the sake of principle, or to sustain a cause.
Then if thou fall'st, O Cromwell, Thou fall'st a blessed martyr !
Shak.

MARTYR
Mar"tyr, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Martyred; p. pr. & vb. n. Martyring.]

1. To put to death for adhering to some belief, esp. Christianity; to
sacrifice on account of faith or profession. Bp. Pearson.

2. To persecute; to torment; to torture. Chaucer.
The lovely Amoret, whose gentle heart Thou martyrest with sorrow and
with smart. Spenser.
Racked with sciatics, martyred with the stone. Pope.

MARTYRDOM
Mar"tyr*dom, n. Etym: [Martyr + -dom.]

1. The condition of a martyr; the death of a martyr; the suffering of
death on account of adherence to the Christian faith, or to any
cause. Bacon.
I came from martyrdom unto this peace. Longfellow.

2. Affliction; torment; torture. Chaucer.

MARTYRIZATION
Mar`tyr*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: Act of martyrizing, or state of being martyrized; torture. B.
Jonson.

MARTYRIZE
Mar"tyr*ize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. martyriser, LL. martyrizare.]

Defn: To make a martyr of. Spenser.

MARTYRLY
Mar"tyr*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a martyr.

MARTYROLOGE
Mar"tyr*o*loge, n. Etym: [LL. martyrologium: cf. F. martyrologe.]

Defn: A martyrology. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

MARTYROLOGIC; MARTYROLOGICAL
Mar`tyr*o*log"ic, Mar`tyr*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to martyrology or martyrs; registering, or
registered in, a catalogue of martyrs.

MARTYROLOGIST
Mar`tyr*ol"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. martyrologiste.]

Defn: A writer of martyrology; an historian of martyrs. T. Warton.

MARTYROLOGY
Mar`tyr*ol"o*gy, n.; pl. -gies. Etym: [Martyr + -logy.]

Defn: A history or account of martyrs; a register of martyrs. Bp.
Stillingfleet.

MARTYRSHIP
Mar"tyr*ship, n.

Defn: Martyrdom. [R.] Fuller.

MARVEL
Mar"vel, n. Etym: [OE. mervaile, F. merveille, fr. L. mirabilia
wonderful things, pl., fr. mirabilis wonderful, fr. mirari to wonder
or marvel at. See Admire, Smile, and cf. Miracle.]

1. That which causes wonder; a prodigy; a miracle.
I will do marvels such as have not been done. Ex. xxxiv. 10.
Nature's sweet marvel undefiled. Emerson.

2. Wonder. [R.] "Use lessens marvel." Sir W. Scott. Marvel of Peru.
(Bot.) See Four-o'clock.

MARVEL
Mar"vel, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Marveled or Marvelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Marveling or Marvelling.] Etym: [OE. merveilen, OF. merveillier.]

Defn: To be struck with surprise, astonishment, or wonder; to wonder.
Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. 1 john iii. 13.

MARVEL
Mar"vel, v. t.

1. To marvel at. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. To cause to marvel, or be surprised; -- used impersonally. [Obs.]
But much now me marveleth. Rich. the Redeless.

MARVELOUS
Mar"vel*ous, a. Etym: [OE. merveillous, OF. merveillos, F.
Merveilleux. See Marvel, n.] [Written also marvellous.]

1. Exciting wonder or surprise; astonishing; wonderful.
This is the Lord's doing; it is marvelous in our eyes. Ps. cxiii. 23.

2. Partaking of the character of miracle, or superna
The marvelous fable includes whatever is supernatural, and especially
the machines of the gods. Pope.
The marvelous, that which exceeds natural power, or is preternatural;
that which is wonderful; -- opposed to the probable.

Syn.
 -- Wonderful; astonishing; surprising; strange; improbable;
incredible.
 -- Marvelous, Wonderful. We speak of a thing as wonderful when it
awakens our surprise and admiration; as marvelous when it is so much
out of the ordinary course of things as to seem nearly or quite
incredible.

MARVELOUSLY
Mar"vel*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a marvelous manner; wonderfully; strangely.

MARVELOUSNESS
Mar"vel*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being marvelous; wonderfulness;
strangeness.

MARVER
Mar"ver, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupt. fr. OE. or F. marbre marble.]
(Glass Marking)

Defn: A stone, or cast-iron plate, or former, on which hot glass is
rolled to give it shape.

MARY
Mar"y, n.

Defn: Marrow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MARY
Ma"ry, interj.

Defn: See Marry. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MARY-BUD
Ma"ry-bud`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The marigold; a blossom of the marigold. Shak.

MARYOLATRY
Ma`ry*ol"a*try, n.

Defn: Mariolatry.

MARYSOLE
Ma"ry*sole, n. Etym: [Mary, the proper name + sole the fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large British fluke, or flounder (Rhombus megastoma); --
called also carter, and whiff. marchpane.

MASCAGNIN; MASCAGNITE
Mas*ca"gnin, Mas*ca"gnite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mascagnin.] (Min.)

Defn: Native sulphate of ammonia, found in volcanic districts; -- so
named from Mascagni, who discovered it.

MASCLE
Mas"cle, n. Etym: [OF. mascle, F. macle, L. macula spot, mesh of a
net, LL. macula, macla, mascla a scale of a coat of mail. See Mail
armor.] (Her.)

Defn: A lozenge voided.

MASCLED
Mas"cled, a.

Defn: Composed of, or covered with, lozenge-shaped scales; having
lozenge-shaped divisions. Mascled armor, armor composed of small
lozenge-shaped scales of metal fastened on a foundation of leather or
quilted cloth.

MASCOT; MASCOTTE
Mas"cot, Mas"cotte, n. Etym: [Through French fr. Pr. mascot a little
sorcerer or magician, mascotto witchcraft, sorcery.]

Defn: A person who is supposed to bring good luck to the household to
which he or she belongs; anything that brings good luck.

MASCULATE
Mas"cu*late, v. t. Etym: [L. masculus male, masculine.]

Defn: To make strong. [Obs.] Cockeram.

MASCULINE
Mas"cu*line, a. Etym: [L. masculinus, fr. masculus male, manly, dim.
of mas a male: cf. F. masculin. See Male masculine.]

1. Of the male sex; not female.
Thy masculine children, that is to say, thy sons. Chaucer.

2. Having the qualities of a man; suitable to, or characteristic of,
a man; virile; not feminine or effeminate; strong; robust.
That lady, after her husband's death, held the reins with a masculine
energy. Hallam.

3. Belonging to males; appropriated to, or used by, males. [R.] "A
masculine church." Fuller.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: Having the inflections of, or construed with, words pertaining
especially to male beings, as distinguished from feminine and neuter.
See Gender.
 -- Mas"cu*line*ly, adv.
 -- Mas"cu*line*ness, n.

MASCULINITY
Mas`cu*lin"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being masculine; masculineness.

MASE
Mase, n. & v.

Defn: See Maze. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MASELYN
Mas"e*lyn, n.

Defn: A drinking cup. See 1st Maslin, 2. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MASER
Ma"ser, n.

Defn: Same as Mazer.

MASH
Mash, n.

Defn: A mesh. [Obs.]

MASH
Mash, n. Etym: [Akin to G. meisch, maisch, meische, maische, mash,
wash, and prob. to AS. miscian to mix. See Mix.]

1. A mass of mixed ingredients reduced to a soft pulpy state by
beating or pressure; a mass of anything in a soft pulpy state.
Specifically (Brewing), ground or bruised malt, or meal of rye,
wheat, corn, or other grain (or a mixture of malt and meal) steeped
and stirred in hot water for making the wort.

2. A mixture of meal or bran and water fed to animals.

3. A mess; trouble. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. Mash tun, a large tub used in
making mash and wort.

MASH
Mash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mashing.] Etym:
[Akin to G. meischen, maischen, to mash, mix, and prob. to mischen,
E. mix. See 2d Mash.]

Defn: To convert into a mash; to reduce to a soft pulpy state by
beating or pressure; to bruise; to crush; as, to mash apples in a
mill, or potatoes with a pestle. Specifically (Brewing), to convert,
as malt, or malt and meal, into the mash which makes wort. Mashing
tub, a tub for making the mash in breweries and distilleries; --
called also mash tun, and mash vat.

MASHER
Mash"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, mashes; also (Brewing), a machine for
making mash.

2. A charmer of women. [Slang] London Punch.

MASHIE; MASHY
Mash"ie, Mash"y, n.; pl. Mashies (#). [Etym. uncert.]

Defn: A golf club like the iron, but with a shorter head, slightly
more lofted, used chiefly for short approaches.

MASHLIN
Mash"lin, n.

Defn: See Maslin.

MASHY
Mash"y, a.

Defn: Produced by crushing or bruising; resembling, or consisting of,
a mash.

MASK
Mask, n. Etym: [F. masque, LL. masca, mascha, mascus; cf. Sp. & Pg.
máscara, It. maschera; all fr. Ar. maskharat buffoon, fool,
pleasantry, anything ridiculous or mirthful, fr. sakhira to ridicule,
to laugh at. Cf. Masque, Masquerade.]

1. A cover, or partial cover, for the face, used for disguise or
protection; as, a dancer's mask; a fencer's mask; a ball player's
mask.

2. That which disguises; a pretext or subterfuge.

3. A festive entertainment of dancing or other diversions, where all
wear masks; a masquerade; hence, a revel; a frolic; a delusive show.
Bacon.
This thought might lead me through the world's vain mask. Milton.

4. A dramatic performance, formerly in vogue, in which the actors
wore masks and represented mythical or allegorical characters.

5. (Arch.)

Defn: A grotesque head or face, used to adorn keystones and other
prominent parts, to spout water in fountains, and the like; -- called
also mascaron.

6. (Fort.)
(a) In a permanent fortification, a redoubt which protects the
caponiere.
(b) A screen for a battery.

7. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lower lip of the larva of a dragon fly, modified so as to
form a prehensile organ. Mask house, a house for masquerades. [Obs.]

MASK
Mask, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Masked; p. pr. & vb. n. Masking.]

1. To cover, as the face, by way of concealment or defense against
injury; to conceal with a mask or visor.
They must all be masked and vizarded. Shak.

2. To disguise; to cover; to hide.
Masking the business from the common eye. Shak.

3. (Mil.)
(a) To conceal; also, to intervene in the line of.
(b) To cover or keep in check; as, to mask a body of troops or a
fortess by a superior force, while some hostile evolution is being
carried out.

MASK
Mask, v. i.

1. To take part as a masker in a masquerade. Cavendish.

2. To wear a mask; to be disguised in any way. Shak.

MASKED
Masked, a.

1. Wearing a mask or masks; characterized by masks; cincealed;
hidden.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Personate.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the anterior part of the head differing decidedly in
color from the rest of the plumage; -- said of birds. Masked ball, a
ball in which the dancers wear masks.
 -- Masked battery (Mil.), a battery so placed as not to be seen by
an enemy until it opens fire. H. L. Scott.
 -- Masked crab (Zoöl.), a European crab (Corystes cassivelaunus)
with markings on the carapace somewhat resembling a human face.
 -- Masked pig (Zoöl.), a Japanese domestic hog (Sus pliciceps). Its
face is deeply furrowed.

MASKER
Mask"er, n.

Defn: One who wears a mask; one who appears in disguise at a
masquerade.

MASKER
Mask"er, v. t.

Defn: To confuse; to stupefy. [Obs.] Holland.

MASKERY
Mask"er*y, n.

Defn: The dress or disguise of a maske [Obs.] Marston.

MASKINONGE
Mas"ki*nonge, n.

Defn: The muskellunge.

MASK SHELL
Mask" shell`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any spiral marine shell of the genus Persona, having a
curiously twisted aperture.

MASLACH
Mas"lach, n. Etym: [Ar. maslaq: cf. F. masloc.] (Med.)

Defn: An excitant containing opium, much used by the Turks.
Dunglison.

MASLIN
Mas"lin, n. Etym: [OE. missellane, misceline, miscelin, meslin, fr.
miscellane. See Miscellane.]

1. A mixture composed of different materials; especially:
(a) A mixture of metals resembling brass.
(b) A mixture of different sorts of grain, as wheat and rye. [Written
also meslin, mislin, maselyn, mastlin.]

2. A vessel made of maslin, 1 (a). [Obs.]
Mead eke in a maselyn. Chaucer.

MASLIN
Mas"lin, a.

Defn: Composed of different sorts; as, maslin bread, which is made of
rye mixed with a little wheat. [Written also meslin, mislin, etc.]

MASON
Ma"son, n. Etym: [F. ma, LL. macio, machio, mattio, mactio, marcio,
macerio; of uncertain origin.]

1. One whose occupation is to build with stone or brick; also, one
who prepares stone for building purposes.

2. A member of the fraternity of Freemasons. See Freemason. Mason bee
(Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of solitary bees of the genus
Osmia. They construct curious nests of hardened mud and sand.
 -- Mason moth (Zoöl.), any moth whose larva constructs an earthen
cocoon under the soil.
 -- Mason shell (Zoöl.), a marine univalve shell of the genus Phorus;
-- so called because it cements other shells and pebbles upon its own
shell; a carrier shell.
 -- Mason wasp (Zoöl.), any wasp that constructs its nest, or brood
cells, of hardened mud. The female fills the cells with insects or
spiders, paralyzed by a sting, and thus provides food for its larvæ

MASON
Ma"son, v. t.

Defn: To build stonework or brickwork about, under, in, over, etc.;
to construct by masons; -- with a prepositional suffix; as, to mason
up a well or terrace; to mason in a kettle or boiler.

MASONIC
Ma*son"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Freemasons or to their craft or mysteries.

MASONRY
Ma"son*ry, n. Etym: [F. maçonnerie.]

1. The art or occupation of a mason.

2. The work or performance of a mason; as, good or bad masonry;
skillful masonry.

3. That which is built by a mason; anything constructed of the
materials used by masons, such as stone, brick, tiles, or the like.
Dry masonry is applied to structures made without mortar.

4. The craft, institution, or mysteries of Freemasons; freemasonry.

MASOOLA BOAT
Ma*soo"la boat`

Defn: . A kind of boat used on the coast of Madras, India. The planks
are sewed together with strands of coir which cross over a wadding of
the same material, so that the shock on taking the beach through surf
is much reduced. [Written also masula, masulah, etc.]

MASORA
Ma*so"ra, n. Etym: [NHeb. mas tradition.]

Defn: A Jewish critical work on the text of the Hebrew Scriptures,
composed by several learned rabbis of the school of Tiberias, in the
eighth and ninth centuries. [Written also Masorah, Massora, and
Massorah.]

MASORET
Mas"o*ret, n.

Defn: A Masorite. [Written also Masorete, and Massorete.]

MASORETIC; MASORETICAL
Mas`o*ret"ic, Mas`o*ret"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. massorétique.]

Defn: Of or relating to the Masora, or to its authors. Masoretic
points and accents, the vowel points and accents of the Hebrew text
of the Bible, of which the first mention is in the Masora.

MASORITE
Mas"o*rite, n.

Defn: One of the writers of the Masora.

MASQUE
Masque, n.

Defn: A mask; a masquerade.

MASQUERADE
Mas`quer*ade", n. Etym: [F. mascarade, fr. Sp. mascarada, or It.
mascherata. See Mask.]

1. An assembly of persons wearing masks, and amusing themselves with
dancing, conversation, or other diversions.
In courtly balls and midnight masquerades. Pope.

2. A dramatic performance by actors in masks; a mask. See 1st Mask,
4. [Obs.]

3. Acting or living under false pretenses; concealment of something
by a false or unreal show; pretentious show; disguise.
That masquerade of misrepresentation which invariably accompanied the
political eloquence of Rome. De Quincey.

4. A Spanish diversion on horseback.

MASQUERADE
Mas`quer*ade", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Masqueraded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Masquerading.]

1. To assemble in masks; to take part in a masquerade.

2. To frolic or disport in disquise; to make a pretentious show of
being what one is not.
A freak took an ass in the head, and he goes into the woods,
masquerading up and down in a lion's skin. L'Estrange.

MASQUERADE
Mas`quer*ade", v. t.

Defn: To conceal with masks; to disguise. "To masquerade vice."
Killingbeck.

MASQUERADER
Mas`quer*ad"er, n.

Defn: One who masquerades; a person wearing a mask; one disguised.

MASS
Mass, n. Etym: [OE. masse, messe, AS. mæsse. LL. missa, from L.
mittere, missum, to send, dismiss: cf. F. messe. In the ancient
churches, the public services at which the catechumens were permitted
to be present were called missa catechumenorum, ending with the
reading of the Gospel. Then they were dismissed with these words :
"Ite, missa est" [sc. ecclesia], the congregation is dismissed. After
that the sacrifice proper began. At its close the same words were
said to those who remained. So the word gave the name of Mass to the
sacrifice in the Catholic Church. See Missile, and cf. Christmas,
Lammas, Mess a dish, Missal.]

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The sacrifice in the sacrament of the Eucharist, or the
consecration and oblation of the host.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The portions of the Mass usually set to music, considered as a
musical composition; -- namely, the Kyrie, the Gloria, the Credo, the
Sanctus, and the Agnus Dei, besides sometimes an Offertory and the
Benedictus. Canon of the Mass. See Canon.
 -- High Mass, Mass with incense, music, the assistance of a deacon,
subdeacon, etc.
 -- Low Mass, Mass which is said by the priest through-out, without
music.
 -- Mass bell, the sanctus bell. See Sanctus.
 -- Mass book, the missal or Roman Catholic service book.

MASS
Mass, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Massed; p. pr. & vb. n. Massing.]

Defn: To celebrate Mass. [Obs.] Hooker.

MASS
Mass, n. Etym: [OE. masse, F. masse, L. massa; akin to Gr. Macerate.]

1. A quantity of matter cohering together so as to make one body, or
an aggregation of particles or things which collectively make one
body or quantity, usually of considerable size; as, a mass of ore,
metal, sand, or water.
If it were not for these principles, the bodies of the earth,
planets, comets, sun, and all things in them, would grow cold and
freeze, and become inactive masses. Sir I. Newton.
A deep mass of continual sea is slower stirred To rage. Savile.

2. (Phar.)

Defn: A medicinal substance made into a cohesive, homogeneous lump,
of consistency suitable for making pills; as, blue mass.

3. A large quantity; a sum.
All the mass of gold that comes into Spain. Sir W. Raleigh.
He had spent a huge mass of treasure. Sir J. Davies.

4. Bulk; magnitude; body; size.
This army of such mass and charge. Shak.

5. The principal part; the main body.
Night closed upon the pursuit, and aided the mass of the fugitives in
their escape. Jowett (Thucyd.).

6. (Physics)

Defn: The quantity of matter which a body contains, irrespective of
its bulk or volume.

Note: Mass and weight are often used, in a general way, as
interchangeable terms, since the weight of a body is proportional to
its mass (under the same or equal gravitative forces), and the mass
is usually ascertained from the weight. Yet the two ideas, mass and
weight, are quite distinct. Mass is the quantity of matter in a body;
weight is the comparative force with which it tends towards the
center of the earth. A mass of sugar and a mass of lead are assumed
to be equal when they show an equal weight by balancing each other in
the scales. Blue mass. See under Blue.
 -- Mass center (Geom.), the center of gravity of a triangle.
 -- Mass copper, native copper in a large mass.
 -- Mass meeting, a large or general assembly of people, usually a
meeting having some relation to politics.
 -- The masses, the great body of the people, as contrasted with the
higher classes; the populace.

MASS
Mass, v. t.

Defn: To form or collect into a mass; to form into a collective body;
to bring together into masses; to assemble.
But mass them together and they are terrible indeed. Coleridge.

MASSACRE
Mas"sa*cre, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. mazacrium; cf. Prov. G. metzgern,
metzgen, to kill cattle, G. metzger a butcher, and LG. matsken to
cut, hew, OHG. meizan to cut, Goth. máitan.]

1. The killing of a considerable number of human beings under
circumstances of atrocity or cruelty, or contrary to the usages of
civilized people; as, the massacre on St. Bartholomew's Day.

2. Murder. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- Massacre, Butchery, Carnage. Massacre denotes the promiscuous
slaughter of many who can not make resistance, or much resistance.
Butchery refers to cold-blooded cruelty in the killing of men as if
they were brute beasts. Carnage points to slaughter as producing the
heaped-up bodies of the slain.
I'll find a day to massacre them all, And raze their faction and
their family. Shak.
If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds, Brhold this pattern of thy
butcheries. Shak.
Such a scent I draw Of carnage, prey innumerable ! Milton.

MASSACRE
Mas"sa*cre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Massacred; p. pr. & vb. n.
Massacring.] Etym: [Cf. F. massacrer. See Massacre, n.]

Defn: To kill in considerable numbers where much resistance can not
be made; to kill with indiscriminate violence, without necessity, and
contrary to the usages of nations; to butcher; to slaughter; --
limited to the killing of human beings.
If James should be pleased to massacre them all, as Maximian had
massacred the Theban legion. Macaulay.

MASSACRER
Mas"sa*crer, n.

Defn: One who massacres. [R.]

MASSAGE
Mas"sage, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A rubbing or kneading of the body, especially when performed as
a hygienic or remedial measure.

MASSAGIST
Mas"sag*ist, n.

Defn: One who practices massage; a masseur or masseuse.

MASSASAUGA
Mas`sa*sau"ga, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The black rattlesnake (Crotalus, or Caudisona, tergemina),
found in the Mississippi Valley.

MASSE; MASSE SHOT
Massé, or Masse shot, n. (Billiards)

Defn: A stroke made with the cue held vertically.

MASSER
Mass"er, n.

Defn: A priest who celebrates Mass. [R.] Bale.

MASSETER
Mas"se*ter, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. masséter.] (Anat.)

Defn: The large muscle which raises the under jaw, and assists in
mastication.

MASSETERIC
Mas`se*ter"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the masseter.

MASSETERINE
Mas"se*ter`ine, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Masseteric.

MASSEUR; MASSEUSE
Mas`seur", n. m., Mas`seuse", n. f.,} Etym: [F., or formed in
imitation of French. See Massage.] (Med.)

Defn: One who performs massage.

MASSICOT
Mas"si*cot, n. Etym: [F. massicot; E. masticot is a corruption.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Lead protoxide, PbO, obtained as a yellow amorphous powder, the
fused and crystalline form of which is called litharge; lead ocher.
It is used as a pigment.

Note: Massicot is sometimes used by painters, and also as a drier in
the composition of ointments and plasters.

MASSINESS
Mass"i*ness, n. Etym: [From Massy.]

Defn: The state or quality of being massy; ponderousness.

MASSIVE
Mass"ive, a. Etym: [F. massif.]

1. Forming, or consisting of, a large mass; compacted; weighty;
heavy; massy. "Massive armor." Dr. H. More.

2. (Min.)

Defn: In mass; not necessarily without a crystalline structure, but
having no regular form; as, a mineral occurs massive. Massive rock
(Geol.), a compact crystalline rock not distinctly schistone, as
granite; also, with some authors, an eruptive rock.

MASSIVELY
Mass"ive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a heavy mass.

MASSIVENESS
Mass"ive*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being massive; massiness.

MASSOOLA BOAT
Mas*soo"la boat`.

Defn: See Masoola boat.

MASSORA
Mas*so"ra, n.

Defn: Same as Masora.

MASSORET
Mas"so*ret, n.

Defn: Same as Masorite.

MASSY
Mass"y, a. [Compar. Massier; superl. Massiest.]

Defn: Compacted into, or consisting of, a mass; having bulk and
weight ot substance; ponderous; bulky and heavy; weight; heavy; as, a
massy shield; a massy rock.
Your swords are now too massy for your strengths, And will not be
uplifted. Shak.
Yawning rocks in massy fragments fly. Pope.

MAST
Mast, n. Etym: [AS. mæst, fem. ; akin to G. mast, and E. meat. See
Meat.]

Defn: The fruit of the oak and beech, or other forest trees; nuts;
acorns.
Oak mast, and beech, . . . they eat. Chapman.
Swine under an oak filling themselves with the mast. South.

MAST
Mast, n. Etym: [AS. mæst, masc.; akin to D., G., Dan., & Sw. mast,
Icel. mastr, and perh. to L. malus.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A pole, or long, strong, round piece of timber, or spar, set
upright in a boat or vessel, to sustain the sails, yards, rigging,
etc. A mast may also consist of several pieces of timber united by
iron bands, or of a hollow pillar of iron or steel.
The tallest pine Hewn on Norwegian hills, to be the mast Of some
great ammiral. Milton.

Note: The most common general names of masts are foremast, mainmast,
and mizzenmast, each of which may be made of separate spars.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: The vertical post of a derrick or crane. Afore the mast, Before
the mast. See under Afore, and Before.
 -- Mast coat. See under Coat.
 -- Mast hoop, one of a number of hoops attached to the fore edge of
a boom sail, which slip on the mast as the sail is raised or lowered;
also, one of the iron hoops used in making a made mast. See Made.

MAST
Mast, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Masted; p. pr. & vb. n. Masting.]

Defn: To furnish with a mast or masts; to put the masts of in
position; as, to mast a ship.

MASTABA; MASTABAH
Mas"ta*ba, n. Also Mas"ta*bah . [Ar. maçtabah a large stone bench.]

1. In Mohammedan countries, a fixed seat, common in dwellings and in
public places.

2.  (Egyptology) A type of tomb, of the time of the Memphite
dynasties, comprising an oblong structure with sloping sides
(sometimes containing a decorated chamber, sometimes of solid
masonry), and connected with a mummy chamber in the rock beneath.

MASTAX
Mas"tax, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) The pharynx of a rotifer. It usually contains four horny pieces.
The two central ones form the incus, against which the mallei, or
lateral ones, work so as to crush the food.
(b) The lore of a bird.

MASTED
Mast"ed, a.

Defn: Furnished with a mast or masts; -- chiefly in composition; as,
a three-masted schooner.

MASTER
Mast"er, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel having (so many) masts; -- used only in compounds; as,
a two-master.

MASTER
Mas"ter, n. Etym: [OE. maistre, maister, OF. maistre, mestre, F.
maître, fr. L. magister, orig. a double comparative from the root of
magnus great, akin to Gr. Maestro, Magister, Magistrate, Magnitude,
Major, Mister, Mistress, Mickle.]

1. A male person having another living being so far subject to his
will, that he can, in the main, control his or its actions; --
formerly used with much more extensive application than now. (a) The
employer of a servant. (b) The owner of a slave. (c) The person to
whom an apprentice is articled. (d) A sovereign, prince, or feudal
noble; a chief, or one exercising similar authority. (e) The head of
a household. (f) The male head of a school or college. (g) A male
teacher. (h) The director of a number of persons performing a
ceremony or sharing a feast. (i) The owner of a docile brute, --
especially a dog or horse. (j) The controller of a familiar spirit or
other supernatural being.

2. One who uses, or controls at will, anything inanimate; as, to be
master of one's time. Shak.
Master of a hundred thousand drachms. Addison.
We are masters of the sea. Jowett (Thucyd. ).

3. One who has attained great skill in the use or application of
anything; as, a master of oratorical art.
Great masters of ridicule. Maccaulay.
No care is taken to improve young men in their own language, that
they may thoroughly understand and be masters of it. Locke.

4. A title given by courtesy, now commonly pronounced mìster, except
when given to boys; -- sometimes written Mister, but usually
abbreviated to Mr.

5. A young gentleman; a lad, or small boy.
Where there are little masters and misses in a house, they are
impediments to the diversions of the servants. Swift.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: The commander of a merchant vessel; -- usually called captain.
Also, a commissioned officer in the navy ranking next above ensign
and below lieutenant; formerly, an officer on a man-of-war who had
immediate charge, under the commander, of sailing the vessel.

7. A person holding an office of authority among the Freemasons, esp.
the presiding officer; also, a person holding a similar office in
other civic societies. Little masters, certain German engravers of
the 16th century, so called from the extreme smallness of their
prints.
 -- Master in chancery, an officer of courts of equity, who acts as
an assistant to the chancellor or judge, by inquiring into various
matters referred to him, and reporting thereon to the court.
 -- Master of arts, one who takes the second degree at a university;
also, the degree or title itself, indicated by the abbreviation M.
A., or A. M.
 -- Master of the horse, the third great officer in the British
court, having the management of the royal stables, etc. In ceremonial
cavalcades he rides next to the sovereign.
 -- Master of the rolls, in England, an officer who has charge of the
rolls and patents that pass the great seal, and of the records of the
chancery, and acts as assistant judge of the court. Bouvier. Wharton.
 -- Past master, one who has held the office of master in a lodge of
Freemasons or in a society similarly organized.
 -- The old masters, distinguished painters who preceded modern
painters; especially, the celebrated painters of the 16th and 17th
centuries.
 -- To be master of one's self, to have entire self-control; not to
be governed by passion.
 -- To be one's own master, to be at liberty to act as one chooses
without dictation from anybody.

Note: Master, signifying chief, principal, masterly, superior,
thoroughly skilled, etc., is often used adjiectively or in compounds;
as, master builder or master-builder, master chord or master-chord,
master mason or master-mason, master workman or master-workman,
master mechanic, master mind, master spirit, master passion, etc.
Throughout the city by the master gate. Chaucer.
Master joint (Geol.), a quarryman's term for the more prominent and
extended joints traversing a rock mass.
 -- Master key, a key adapted to open several locks differing
somewhat from each other; figuratively, a rule or principle of
general application in solving difficulties.
 -- Master lode (Mining), the principal vein of ore.
 -- Master mariner, an experienced and skilled seaman who is
certified to be competent to command a merchant vessel.
 -- Master sinew (Far.), a large sinew that surrounds the hough of a
horse, and divides it from the bone by a hollow place, where the
windgalls are usually seated.
 -- Master singer. See Mastersinger.
 -- Master stroke, a capital performance; a masterly achievement; a
consummate action; as, a master stroke of policy.
 -- Master tap (Mech.), a tap for forming the thread in a screw
cutting die.
 -- Master touch. (a) The touch or skill of a master. Pope. (b) Some
part of a performance which exhibits very skillful work or treatment.
"Some master touches of this admirable piece." Tatler.
 -- Master work, the most important work accomplished by a skilled
person, as in architecture, literature, etc.; also, a work which
shows the skill of a master; a masterpiece.
 -- Master workman, a man specially skilled in any art, handicraft,
or trade, or who is an overseer, foreman, or employer.

MASTER
Mas"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mastered; p. pr. vb. n. Mastering.]

1. To become the master of; to subject to one's will, control, or
authority; to conquer; to overpower; to subdue.
Obstinacy and willful neglects must be mastered, even though it cost
blows. Locke.

2. To gain the command of, so as to understand or apply; to become an
adept in; as, to master a science.

3. To own; to posses. [Obs.]
The wealth That the world masters. Shak.

MASTER
Mas"ter, v. i.

Defn: To be skillful; to excel. [Obs.]

MASTERDOM
Mas"ter*dom, n. Etym: [Master + -dom.]

Defn: Dominion; rule; command. [R.] Shak.

MASTERFUL
Mas"ter*ful, a.

1. Inclined to play the master; domineering; imperious; arbitrary.
Dryden.

2. Having the skill or power of a master; indicating or expressing
power or mastery.
His masterful, pale face. Mrs. Browning.

MASTERFULLY
Mas"ter*ful*ly, adv.

Defn: In a masterful manner; imperiously.
A lawless and rebellious man who held lands masterfully and in high
contempt of the royal authority. Macaulay.

MASTERHOOD
Mas"ter*hood, n.

Defn: The state of being a master; hence, disposition to command or
hector. C. Bronté.

MASTERLESS
Mas"ter*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of a master or owner; ungoverned or ungovernable.
 -- Mas"ter*less*ness, n.

MASTERLINESS
Mas"ter*li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being masterly; ability to control
wisely or skillfully.

MASTERLY
Mas"ter*ly, a.

1. Suitable to, or characteristic of, a master; indicating thorough
knowledge or superior skill and power; showing a master's hand; as, a
masterly design; a masterly performance; a masterly policy. "A wise
and masterly inactivity." Sir J. Mackintosh.

2. Imperious; domineering; arbitrary.

MASTERLY
Mas"ter*ly, adv.

Defn: With the skill of a master.
Thou dost speak masterly. Shak.

MASTEROUS
Mas"ter*ous, a.

Defn: Masterly. [Obs.] Milton.

MASTERPIECE
Mas"ter*piece`, n.

Defn: Anything done or made with extraordinary skill; a capital
performance; a chef-d'oeuvre; a supreme achievement.
The top and masterpiece of art. South.
Dissimulation was his masterpiece. Claredon.

MASTERSHIP
Mas"ter*ship, n.

1. The state or office of a master.

2. Mastery; dominion; superior skill; superiority.
Where noble youths for mastership should strive. Driden.

3. Chief work; masterpiece. [Obs.] Dryden.

4. An ironical title of respect.
How now, seignior Launce ! what news with your mastership Shak.

MASTERSINGER
Mas"ter*sing`er, n. Etym: [A translation of G. meistersänger.]

Defn: One of a class of poets which flourished in Nuremberg and some
other cities of Germany in the 15th and 16th centuries. They bound
themselves to observe certain arbitrary laws of rhythm.

MASTER VIBRATOR
Mas"ter vi"bra*tor.

Defn: In an internal-combustion engine with two or more cylinders, an
induction coil and vibrator placed in the circuit between the battery
or magneto and the coils for the different cylinders, which are used
without vibrators of their own.

MASTERWORT
Mas"ter*wort`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A tall and coarse European umbelliferous plant (Peucedanum
Ostruthium, formerly Imperatoria).
(b) The Astrantia major, a European umbelliferous plant with a showy
colored involucre.
(c) Improperly, the cow parsnip (Heracleum lanatum).

MASTERY
Mas"ter*y, n.; pl. Masteries. Etym: [OF. maistrie.]

1. The position or authority of a master; dominion; command;
supremacy; superiority.
If divided by mountains, they will fight for the mastery of the
passages of the tops. Sir W. Raleigh.

2. Superiority in war or competition; victory; triumph; preëminence.
The voice of them that shout for mastery. Ex. xxxii. 18.
Every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. 1
Cor. ix. 25.
O, but to have gulled him Had been a mastery. B. Jonson.

3. Contest for superiority. [Obs.] Holland.

4. A masterly operation; a feat. [Obs.]
I will do a maistrie ere I go. Chaucer.

5. Specifically, the philosopher's stone. [Obs.]

6. The act process of mastering; the state of having mastered.
He could attain to a mastery in all languages. Tillotson.
The learning and mastery of a tongue, being unpleasant in itself,
should not be cumbered with other difficulties. Locke.

MASTFUL
Mast"ful, a. Etym: [See lst Mast.]

Defn: Abounding in mast; producing mast in abundance; as, the mastful
forest; a mastful chestnut. Dryden.

MASTHEAD
Mast"head`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The top or head of a mast; the part of a mast above the hounds.

MASTHEAD
Mast"head", v. t. (Naut.)

Defn: To cause to go to the masthead as a punishment. Marryat.

MASTHOUSE
Mast"house`, n.

Defn: A building in which vessels' masts are shaped, fitted, etc.

MASTIC
Mas"tic, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. mastiche, mastichum, Gr. [Written also
mastich.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A low shrubby tree of the genus Pistacia (P. Lentiscus),
growing upon the islands and coasts of the Mediterranean, and
producing a valuable resin; -- called also, mastic tree.

2. A resin exuding from the mastic tree, and obtained by incision.
The best is in yellowish white, semitransparent tears, of a faint
smell, and is used as an astringent and an aromatic, also as an
ingredient in varnishes.

3. A kind of cement composed of burnt clay, litharge, and linseed
oil, used for plastering walls, etc. Barbary mastic (Bot.), the
Pistachia Atlantica.
 -- Peruvian mastic tree (Bot.), a small tree (Schinus Molle) with
peppery red berries; -- called also pepper tree.
 -- West Indian mastic (Bot.), a lofty tree (Bursera gummifera) full
of gum resin in every part.

MASTICABLE
Mas"ti*ca*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being masticated.

MASTICADOR
Mas`ti*ca"dor, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. mastigador. See Masticate.] (Man.)

Defn: A part of a bridle, the slavering bit. [Written also
mastigador.]

MASTICATE
Mas"ti*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Masticated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Masticating.] Etym: [L. masticatus, p. p. of masticare to chew, prob.
fr. mastiche mastic. See Mastic.]

Defn: To grind or crush with, or as with, the teeth and prepare for
swallowing and digestion; to chew; as, to masticate food.

MASTICATER
Mas"ti*ca`ter, n.

Defn: One who masticates.

MASTICATION
Mas`ti*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. masticatio: cf. F. mastication.]

Defn: The act or operation of masticating; chewing, as of food.
Mastication is a necessary preparation of solid aliment, without
which there can be no good digestion. Arbuthnot.

MASTICATOR
Mas"ti*ca`tor, n.

1. One who masticates.

2. A machine for cutting meat into fine pieces for toothless people;
also, a machine for cutting leather, India rubber, or similar tough
substances, into fine pieces, in some processes of manufacture.

MASTICATORY
Mas"ti*ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. masticatoire.]

Defn: Chewing; adapted to perform the office o

MASTICATORY
Mas"ti*ca*to*ry, n.; pl. -ries (. (Med.)

Defn: A substance to be chewed to increase the saliva. Bacon.

MASTICH
Mas"tich, n.

Defn: See Mastic.

MASTICIN
Mas"ti*cin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, amorphous, tenacious substance resembling caoutchouc,
and obtained as an insoluble residue of mastic.

MASTICOT
Mas"ti*cot, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Massicot. [Obs.]

MASTIFF
Mas"tiff, n.; pl. Mastiffs (. [Mastives is irregular and unusual.]
Etym: [Prob. fr. Prov. E. masty, adj., large, n., a great dog, prob.
fr. mast fruit, and hence, lit., fattened with mast. There is perh.
confusion with OF. mestif mongrel; cf. also F. mâtin mastiff, OF.
mastin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A breed of large dogs noted for strength and courage. There are
various strains, differing in form and color, and characteristic of
different countries. Mastiff bat (Zoöl.) , any bat of the genus
Molossus; so called because the face somewhat resembles that of a
mastiff.

MASTIGOPOD
Mas"ti*go*pod, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Mastigopoda.

MASTIGOPODA
Mas`ti*gop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Infusoria.

MASTIGURE
Mas"ti*gure, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several large spiny-tailed lizards of the genus
Uromastix. They inhabit Southern Asia and North Africa.

MASTING
Mast"ing, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The act or process of putting a mast or masts into a vessel;
also, the scientific principles which determine the position of
masts, and the mechanical methods of placing them. Masting house
(Naut.), a large building, with suitable mechanism overhanging the
water, used for stepping and unstepping the masts of vessels.

MASTITIS
Mas*ti"tis, n. Etym: [Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the breast.

MASTLESS
Mast"less, a. Etym: [See lst Mast.]

Defn: Bearing no mast; as, a mastless oak or beech. Dryden.

MASTLESS
Mast"less, a. Etym: [See 2d Mast.]

Defn: Having no mast; as, a mastless vessel.

MASTLIN
Mast"lin, n.

Defn: See Maslin.

MASTODON
Mas"to*don, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of mammals closely allied to the elephant, but
having less complex molar teeth, and often a pair of lower, as well
as upper, tusks, which are incisor teeth. The species were mostly
larger than elephants, and their romains occur in nearly all parts of
the world in deposits ranging from Miocene to late Quaternary time.

MASTODONSAURUS
Mas`to*don*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. E. Mastodon + Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A large extinct genus of labyrinthodonts, found in the European
Triassic rocks.

MASTODONTIC
Mas`to*don"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a mastodon; as, mastodontic
dimensions. Everett.

MASTODYNIA; MASTODYNY
Mas`to*dyn"i*a, Mas*tod"y*ny (, n. Etym: [NL. mastodynia, fr. Gr.
(Med.)

Defn: Pain occuring in the mamma or female breast, -- a form of
neuralgia.

MASTOID
Mas"toid, a. Etym: [Gr. mastoïde.] (Anat.)
(a) Resembling the nipple or the breast; -- applied specifically to a
process of the temporal bone behind the ear.
(b) Pertaining to, or in the region of, the mastoid process;
mastoidal.

MASTOIDAL
Mas*toid"al, a.

Defn: Same as Mastoid.

MASTOIDITIS
Mas`toid*i*tis, n. [NL. See Mastoid, and -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation in the mastoid process of the temporal bone.

MASTOLOGY
Mas*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. mastologie.]

Defn: The natural history of Mammalia.

MASTRESS
Mas"tress, n.

Defn: Mistress. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MASTURBATION
Mas`tur*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. masturbatus, p. p. of masturbari to
practice onanism: cf. F. masturbation.]

Defn: Onanism; self-pollution.

MASTY
Mast"y, a. Etym: [See lst Mast.]

Defn: Full of mast; abounding in acorns, etc.

MASULA BOAT
Ma*su"la boat`.

Defn: Same as Masoola boat.

MAT
Mat, n. Etym: [Cf. Matte.]

Defn: A name given by coppersmiths to an alloy of copper, tin, iron,
etc., usually called white metal. [Written also matt.]

MAT
Mat, a. Etym: [OF. See 4th Mate.]

Defn: Cast down; dejected; overthrown; slain. [Obs.]
When he saw them so piteous and so maat. Chaucer.

MAT
Mat, n. Etym: [AS. matt, meatt, fr. L. matta a mat made of rushes.]

1. A fabric of sedge, rushes, flags, husks, straw, hemp, or similar
material, used for wiping and cleaning shoes at the door, for
covering the floor of a hall or room, and for other purposes.

2. Any similar fabric for various uses, as for covering plant houses,
putting beneath dishes or lamps on a table, securing rigging from
friction, and the like.

3. Anything growing thickly, or closely interwoven, so as to resemble
a mat in form or texture; as, a mat of weeds; a mat of hair.

4. An ornamental border made of paper, pasterboard, metal, etc., put
under the glass which covers a framed picture; as, the mat of a
daguerreotype. Mat grass. (Bot.) (a) A low, tufted, European grass
(Nardus stricta). (b) Same as Matweed.
 -- Mat rush (Bot.), a kind of rush (Scirpus lacustris) used in
England for making mats.

MAT
Mat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Matted; p. pr. & vb. n. Matting.]

1. To cover or lay with mats. Evelyn.

2. To twist, twine, or felt together; to interweave into, or like, a
mat; to entangle.
And o'er his eyebrows hung his matted hair. Dryden.

MAT
Mat, v. i.

Defn: To grow thick together; to become interwoven or felted together
like a mat.

MATABELE; MATABELES
Mat`a*be"le, or Mat`a*be"les, n. pl., sing. Matabele. [Written also
Matabili.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: A warlike South African Kaffir tribe.

MATACHIN
Ma`ta*chin", n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: An old dance with swords and bucklers; a sword dance.

MATACO
Mat"a*co, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The three-banded armadillo (Tolypeutis tricinctus). See Illust.
under Loricata.

MATADORE; MATADOR
Mat"a*dore, Mat"a*dor, n. Etym: [Sp. matador, prop., a killer, fr.
matar to kill, L. mactare to sacrifice, kill.]

1. The killer; the man appointed to kill the bull in bullfights.

2. (Card Playing)

Defn: In the game of quadrille or omber, the three principal trumps,
the ace of spades being the first, the ace of clubs the third, and
the second being the deuce of a black trump or the seven of a red
one.
When Lady Tricksey played a four, You took it with a matadore. Swift.

MATAGASSE
Mat`a*gasse", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A shrike or butcher bird; -- called also mattages. [Prov. Eng.]

MATAJUELO
Ma`ta*jue"lo (mä`ta*hwa"lo; 239), n. [Cf. Sp. matajudío a kind of
fish.]

Defn: A large squirrel fish (Holocentrus ascensionis) of Florida and
the West Indies.

MATAJUELO BLANCO
Ma`ta*jue"lo blan"co. [Sp. blanco white.]

Defn: A West Indian food fish (Malacanthus plumieri) related to the
tilefish.

MATAMATA
Ma`ta*ma"ta, n. Etym: [Pg.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bearded tortoise (Chelys fimbriata) of South American
rivers.

MATANZA
Ma*tan"za, n. Etym: [Sp., slaughter, fr. matar to kill.]

Defn: A place where animals are slaughtered for their hides and
tallow. [Western U. S.]

MATCH
Match, n. Etym: [OE. macche, F. mèche, F. mèche, fr. L. myxa a lamp
nozzle, Gr. Mucus.]

Defn: Anything used for catching and retaining or communicating fire,
made of some substance which takes fire readily, or remains burning
some time; esp., a small strip or splint of wood dipped at one end in
a substance which can be easily ignited by friction, as a preparation
of phosphorus or chlorate of potassium. Match box, a box for holding
matches.
 -- Match tub, a tub with a perforated cover for holding slow matches
for firing cannon, esp. on board ship. The tub contains a little
water in the bottom, for extinguishing sparks from the lighted
matches.
 -- Quick match, threads of cotton or cotton wick soaked in a
solution of gunpowder mixed with gum arabic and boiling water and
afterwards strewed over with mealed powder. It burns at the rate of
one yard in thirteen seconds, and is used as priming for heavy
mortars, fireworks, etc.
 -- Slow match, slightly twisted hempen rope soaked in a solution of
limewater and saltpeter or washed in a lye of water and wood ashes.
It burns at the rate of four or five inches an hour, and is used for
firing cannon, fireworks, etc.

MATCH
Match, n. Etym: [OE. macche, AS. gemæcca; akin to gemaca, and to OS.
gimako, OHG. gimah fitting, suitable, convenient, Icel. mark
suitable, maki mate, Sw. make, Dan. mage; all from the root of E.
make, v. See Make mate, and Make, v., and cf. Mate an associate.]

1. A person or thing equal or similar to another; one able to mate or
cope with another; an equal; a mate.
Government . . . makes an innocent man, though of the lowest rank, a
match for the mightiest of his fellow subjects. Addison.

2. A bringing together of two parties suited to one another, as for a
union, a trial of skill or force, a contest, or the like; as,
specifically:
(a) A contest to try strength or skill, or to determine superiority;
an emulous struggle. "Many a warlike match." Drayton.
A solemn match was made; he lost the prize. Dryden.

(b) A matrimonial union; a marriage.

3. An agreement, compact, etc. "Thy hand upon that match." Shak.
Love doth seldom suffer itself to be confined by other matches than
those of its own making. Boyle.

4. A candidate for matrimony; one to be gained in marriage. "She . .
. was looked upon as the richest match of the West." Clarendon.

5. Equality of conditions in contest or competition.
It were no match, your nail against his horn. Shak.

6. Suitable combination or bringing together; that which corresponds
or harmonizes with something else; as, the carpet and curtains are a
match.

7. (Founding)

Defn: A perforated board, block of plaster, hardened sand, etc., in
which a pattern is partly imbedded when a mold is made, for giving
shape to the surfaces of separation between the parts of the mold.
Match boarding (Carp.), boards fitted together with tongue and
groove, or prepared to be so fitted.
 -- Match game, a game arranged as a test of superiority.
 -- Match plane (Carp.), either of the two planes used to shape the
edges of boards which are joined by grooving and tonguing.
 -- Match plate (Founding), a board or plate on the opposite sides of
which the halves of a pattern are fastened, to facilitate molding.
Knight.
 -- Match wheel (Mach.), a cogwheel of suitable pitch to work with
another wheel; specifically, one of a pair of cogwheels of equal
size.

MATCH
Match, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Matched; p. pr. & vb. n. Matching.]

1. To be a mate or match for; to be able to complete with; to rival
successfully; to equal.
No settled senses of the world can match The pleasure of that
madness. Shak.

2. To furnish with its match; to bring a match, or equal, against; to
show an equal competitor to; to set something in competition with, or
in opposition to, as equal.
No history or antiquity can matchis policies and his conduct. South.

3. To oppose as equal; to contend successfully against.
Eternal might To match with their inventions they presumed So easy,
and of his thunder made a scorn. Milton.

4. To make or procure the equal of, or that which is exactly similar
to, or corresponds with; as, to match a vase or a horse; to match
cloth. "Matching of patterns and colors." Swift.

5. To make equal, proportionate, or suitable; to adapt, fit, or suit
(one thing to another).
Let poets match their subject to their strength. Roscommon.

6. To marry; to give in marriage.
A senator of Rome survived, Would not have matched his daughter with
a king. Addison.

7. To fit together, or make suitable for fitting together;
specifically, to furnish with a tongue and a groove, at the edges;
as, to match boards. Matching machine, a planing machine for forming
a tongue or a groove on the edge of a board.

MATCH
Match, v. i.

1. To be united in marriage; to mate.
I hold it a sin to match in my kindred. Shak.
Let tigers match with hinds, and wolves with sheep. Dryden.

2. To be of equal, or similar, size, figure, color, or quality; to
tally; to suit; to correspond; as, these vases match.

MATCHABLE
Match"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being matched; comparable on equal conditions;
adapted to being joined together; correspondent.
 -- Match"a*ble*ness, n.
Sir Walter Raleigh . . . is matchable with the best of the ancients.
Hakewill.

MATCH-CLOTH
Match"-cloth`, n.

Defn: A coarse cloth.

MATCH-COAT
Match"-coat`, n.

Defn: A coat made of match-cloth.

MATCHER
Match"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, matches; a matching machine. See under
3d Match.

MATCH GAME
Match game.

Defn: A game arranged as a test of superiority; also, one of a series
of such games.

MATCHLESS
Match"less, a. Etym: [Cf. Mateless.]

1. Having no equal; unequaled. "A matchless queen." Waller.

2. Unlike each other; unequal; unsuited. [Obs.] "Matchless ears."
Spenser.
 -- Match"less*ly, adv.
 -- Match"less*ness, n.

MATCHLOCK
Match"lock`, n.

Defn: An old form of gunlock containing a match for firing the
priming; hence, a musket fired by means of a match.

MATCHMAKER
Match"mak`er, n.

1. One who makes matches for burning or kinding.

2. One who tries to bring about marriages.

MATCHMAKING
Match"mak`ing, n.

1. The act or process of making matches for kindling or burning.

2. The act or process of trying to bring about a marriage for others.

MATCHMAKING
Match"mak`ing, a.

Defn: Busy in making or contriving marriages; as, a matchmaking
woman.

MATCH PLAY
Match play. (Golf)

Defn: Play in which the score is reckoned by counting the holes won
or lost by each side; -- disting. from medal play.

MATE
Ma"te, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: The Paraguay tea, being the dried leaf of the Brazilian holly
(Ilex Paraguensis). The infusion has a pleasant odor, with an
agreeable bitter taste, and is much used for tea in South America.

MATE
Mate, n. Etym: [F. mat, abbrev. fr. échec et mat. See Checkmate.]
(Chess)

Defn: Same as Checkmate.

MATE
Mate, a.

Defn: See 2d Mat. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MATE
Mate, v. t. Etym: [F. mater to fatigue, enfeeble, humiliate,
checkmate. See Mate checkmate.]

1. To confuse; to confound. [Obs.] Shak.

2. To checkmate.

MATE
Mate, n. Etym: [Perhaps for older make a companion; cf. also OD. maet
companion, mate, D. maat. Cf. Make a companion, Match a mate.]

1. One who customarily associates with another; a companion; an
associate; any object which is associated or combined with a similar
object.

2. Hence, specifically, a husband or wife; and among the lower
animals, one of a pair associated for propagation and the care of
their young.

3. A suitable companion; a match; an equal.
Ye knew me once no mate For you; there sitting where you durst not
soar. Milton.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: An officer in a merchant vessel ranking next below the captain.
If there are more than one bearing the title, they are called,
respectively, first mate, second mate, third mate, etc. In the navy,
a subordinate officer or assistant; as, master's mate; surgeon's
mate.

MATE
Mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mated; p. pr. & vb. n. Mating.]

1. To match; to marry.
If she be mated with an equal husband. Shak.

2. To match one's self against; to oppose as equal; to compete with.
There is no passion in the mind of man so weak but it mates and
masters the fear of death. Bacon.
I, . . . in the way of loyalty and truth, . . . Dare mate a sounder
man than Surrey can be. Shak.

MATE
Mate, v. i.

Defn: To be or become a mate or mates, especially in sexual
companionship; as, some birds mate for life; this bird will not mate
with that one.

MATELASSE
Mate`las`sé", a. [F., p.p. of matelasser to cushion, to cover as with
a mattress, fr. matelas mattress. See Mattress.]

Defn: Ornamented by means of an imitation or suggestion of quilting,
the surface being marked by depressed lines which form squares or
lozenges in relief; as, matelassé silks.

MATELASSE
Mate`las`sé", n.

Defn: A quilted ornamented dress fabric of silk or silk and wool.

MATELESS
Mate"less, a. Etym: [Cf. Matchless.]

Defn: Having no mate.

MATELOTE
Mat"e*lote, n. Etym: [F., fr. matelot a sailor; properly, a dish such
as sailors prepare.]

Defn: A dish of food composed of many kings of fish.

MATELOTE; MATELOTTE
Mat"e*lote, Mat"e*lotte, n. [F. matelote, fr. matelot a sailor;
properly, a dish such as a sailors prepare.]

1. A stew, commonly of fish, flavored with wine, and served with a
wine sauce containing onions, mushrooms, etc.

2.  An old dance of sailors, in double time, and somewhat like a
hornpipe.

MATEOLOGY
Ma`te*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. matéologie.]

Defn: A vain, unprofitable discourse or inquiry. [R.]

MATEOTECHNY
Ma`te*o*tech"ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Any unprofitable science. [Obs.]

MATER
Ma"ter, n. Etym: [L., mother. See Mother.]

Defn: See Alma mater, Dura mater, and Pia mater.

MATERIAL
Ma*te"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. materialis, fr. materia stuff, matter: cf.
F. matériel. See Matter, and cf. MatÉriel.]

1. Consisting of matter; not spiritual; corporeal; physical; as,
material substance or bodies.
The material elements of the universe. Whewell.

2. Hence: Pertaining to, or affecting, the physical nature of man, as
distinguished from the mental or moral nature; relating to the bodily
wants, interests, and comforts.

3. Of solid or weighty character; not insubstantial; of cinsequence;
not be dispensed with; important.
Discourse, which was always material, never trifling. Evelyn.
I shall, in the account of simple ideas, set down only such as are
most material to our present purpose. Locke.

4. (Logic.)

Defn: Pertaining to the matter, as opposed to the form, of a thing.
See Matter. Material cause. See under Cause.
 -- Material evidence (Law), evidence which conduces to the proof or
disproof of a relevant hypothesis. Wharton.

Syn.
 -- Corporeal; bodily; important; weighty; momentous; essential.

MATERIAL
Ma*te"ri*al, n.

Defn: The substance or matter of which anything is made or may be
made. Raw material, any crude, unfinished, or elementary materials
that are adapted to use only by processes of skilled labor. Cotton,
wool, ore, logs, etc., are raw material.

MATERIAL
Ma*te"ri*al, v. t.

Defn: To form from matter; to materialize. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

MATERIALISM
Ma*te"ri*al*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. matérialisme.]

1. The doctrine of materialists; materialistic views and tenets.
The irregular fears of a future state had been supplanted by the
materialism of Epicurus. Buckminster.

2. The tendency to give undue importance to material interests;
devotion to the material nature and its wants.

3. Material substances in the aggregate; matter. [R. & Obs.] A.
Chalmers.

MATERIALIST
Ma*te"ri*al*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. matérialiste.]

1. One who denies the existence of spiritual substances or agents,
and maintains that spiritual phenomena, so called, are the result of
some peculiar organization of matter.

2. One who holds to the existence of matter, as distinguished from
the idealist, who denies it. Berkeley.

MATERIALISTIC; MATERIALISTICAL
Ma*te`ri*al*is"tic, Ma*te`ri*al*is"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to materialism or materialists; of the nature
of materialism.
But to me his very spiritualism seemed more materialistic than his
physics. C. Kingsley.

MATERIALITY
Ma*te`ri*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. matérialité.]

1. The quality or state of being material; material existence;
corporeity.

2. Importance; as, the materiality of facts.

MATERIALIZATION
Ma*te`ri*al*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of materializing, or the state of being materialized.

MATERIALIZE
Ma*te"ri*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Materialized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Materializing.] Etym: [Cf. F. matérialiser.]

1. To invest wich material characteristics; to make perceptible to
the senses; hence, to present to the mind through the medium of
material objects.
Having wich wonderful art and beauty materialized, if I may so call
it, a scheme of abstracted notions, and clothed the most nice,
refined conceptions of philosophy in sensible images. Tatler.

2. To regard as matter; to consider or explain by the laws or
principles which are appropriate to matter.

3. To cause to assume a character appropriate to material things; to
occupy with material interests; as, to materialize thought.

4. (Spiritualism)

Defn: To make visable in, or as in, a material form; -- said of
spirits.
A female spirit form temporarily materialized, and not
distinguishable from a human being. Epes Sargent.

MATERIALIZE
Ma*te"ri*al*ize, v. i.

Defn: To appear as a material form; to take substantial shape.
[Colloq.]

MATERIALLY
Ma*te"ri*al*ly, adv.

1. In the state of matter.
I do not mean that anything is separable from a body by fire that was
not materially preëxistent in it. Boyle.

2. In its essence; substantially.
An ill intention is certainly sufficient to spoil . . . an act in
itself materially good. South.

3. In an important manner or degree; essentaily; as, it materially
concern us to know the real motives of our actions.

MATERIALNESS
Ma*te"ri*al*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being material.

MATERIA MEDICA
Ma*te"ri*a med"i*ca. Etym: [L. See Matter, and Medical.]

1. Material or substance used in the composition of remedies; -- a
general term for all substances used as curative agents in medicine.

2. That branch of medical science which treats of the nature and
properties of all the substances that are employed for the cure of
diseases.

MATERIARIAN
Ma*te`ri*a"ri*an, n. Etym: [L. materiarius.]

Defn: See Materialist. [Obs.]

MATERIATE; MATERIATED
Ma*te"ri*ate, Ma*te"ri*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. materiatus, p. p. of
materiare to build of wood.]

Defn: Consisting of matter. [Obs.] Bacon.

MATERIATION
Ma*te`ri*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. materiatio woodwork.]

Defn: Act of forming matter. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

MATERIEL
Ma`té`ri`el", n. Etym: [F. See Material.]

Defn: That in a complex system which constitutes the materials, or
instruments employed, in distinction from the personnel, or men; as,
the baggage, munitions, provisions, etc., of an army; or the
buildings, libraries, and apparatus of a college, in distinction from
its officers.

MATERIOUS
Ma*te"ri*ous, a.

Defn: See Material. [Obs.]

MATERNAL
Ma*ter"nal, a. Etym: [F. maternel, L. maternus, fr. mater mother. See
Mother.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a mother; becoming to a mother; motherly;
as, maternal love; maternal tenderness.

Syn.
 -- See Motherly.

MATERNALLY
Ma*ter"nal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a motherly manner.

MATERNITY
Ma*ter"ni*ty, n. Etym: [F. maternité, LL. maternitas.]

Defn: The state of being a mother; the character or relation of a
mother.

MATFELON
Mat"fel*on, n. Etym: [W. madfelen.] (Bot.)

Defn: The knapweed (Centaurea nigra).

MATH
Math, n. Etym: [AS. mmawan to mow, G. mahd math. See Mow to cut
(grass).]

Defn: A mowing, or that which is gathered by mowing; -- chiefly used
in composition; as, an aftermath. [Obs.]
The first mowing thereof, for the king's use, is wont to be sooner
than the common math. Bp. Hall.

MATHEMATIC
Math`e*mat"ic, a. Etym: [F. mathématique, L. mathematicus, Gr. mind.
See Mind.]

Defn: See Mathematical.

MATHEMATICAL
Math`e*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Mathematic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to mathematics; according to mathematics;
hence, theoretically precise; accurate; as, mathematical geography;
mathematical instruments; mathematical exactness.
 -- Math`e*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

MATHEMATICIAN
Math`e*ma*ti"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mathématicien.]

Defn: One versed in mathematics.

MATHEMATICS
Math`e*mat"ics, n. Etym: [F. mathématiques, pl., L. mathematica,
sing., Gr. Mathematic, and -ics.]

Defn: That science, or class of sciences, which treats of the exact
relations existing between quantities or magnitudes, and of the
methods by which, in accordance with these relations, quantities
sought are deducible from other quantities known or supposed; the
science of spatial and quantitative relations.

Note: Mathematics embraces three departments, namely: 1. Arithmetic.
2. Geometry, including Trigonometry and Conic Sections. 3. Analysis,
in which letters are used, including Algebra, Analytical Geometry,
and Calculus. Each of these divisions is divided into pure or
abstract, which considers magnitude or quantity abstractly, without
relation to matter; and mixed or applied, which treats of magnitude
as subsisting in material bodies, and is consequently interwoven with
physical considerations.

MATHER
Math"er, n.

Defn: See Madder.

MATHES
Math"es, n. Etym: [Perh. corrupted fr. L. anthemis camomile, Gr.
(Bot.)

Defn: The mayweed. Cf. Maghet.

MATHESIS
Ma*the"sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: Learning; especially, mathematics. [R.] Pope.

MATHURIN
Math"u*rin, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: See Trinitarian.

MATICO
Ma*ti"co, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A Peruvian plant (Piper, or Artanthe, elongatum), allied to the
pepper, the leaves of which are used as a styptic and astringent.

MATIE
Mat"ie, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fat herring with undeveloped roe. [Written also matty.] [Eng.
& Scot.]

MATIN
Ma`tin", n. Etym: [F. matin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A French mastiff.

MATIN
Mat"in, n. Etym: [F. fr. L. matutinum the morning, matutinus of the
morning, Matuta the goddess of the morning. See Matutinal.]

1. Morning. [Obs.] Shak.

2. pl. Etym: [F. matines. See Etymol. above.]

Defn: Morning worship or service; morning prayers or songs.
The winged choristers began To chirp their matins. Cleveland.

3. Time of morning service; the first canonical hour in the Roman
Catholic Church.

MATIN
Mat"in, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the morning, or to matins; used in the
morning; matutinal.

MATINAL
Mat"in*al, a.

Defn: Relating to the morning, or to matins; matutinal.

MATINEE
Mat`i*née", n. Etym: [F., from matin. See Matin.]

Defn: A reception, or a musical or dramatic entertainment, held in
the daytime. See SoirÉe.

MATRASS
Ma*trass", n. Etym: [F. matras; perh. so called from its long narrow
neck; cf. OF. matras large arrow, L. materis, mataris, matara, a
Celtic javelin, pike; of Celtic origin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A round-bottomed glass flask having a long neck; a bolthead.

MATRESS
Mat"ress, n.

Defn: See Matress.

MATRIARCH
Ma"tri*arch, n. Etym: [L. mater mother + -arch.]

Defn: The mother and ruler of a family or of her descendants; a ruler
by maternal right.

MATRIARCHAL
Ma`tri*ar"chal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a matriarch; governed by a matriarch.

MATRIARCHATE
Ma"tri*ar"chate, n.

Defn: The office or jurisdiction of a matriarch; a matriarchal form
of government.

MATRICE
Ma"trice, n. Etym: [Cf. F. matrice. See Matrix.]

Defn: See Matrix.

MATRICIDAL
Mat"ri*ci`dal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to matricide.

MATRICIDE
Mat"ri*cide, n. Etym: [L. matricidium; mater mother + coedere to
kill, slay: cf. F. matricide. See Mother, and cf. Homicide.]

1. The murder of a mother by her son or daughter.

2. Etym: [L. matricida: cf. F. matricide.]

Defn: One who murders one's own mother.

MATRICULATE
Ma*tric"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Matriculated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Matriculating.] Etym: [L. matricula a public roll or register, dim.
of matrix a mother, in respect to propagation, also, a public
register. See Matrix.]

Defn: To enroll; to enter in a register; specifically, to enter or
admit to membership in a body or society, particularly in a college
or university, by enrolling the name in a register.
In discovering and matriculating the arms of commissaries from North
America. Sir W. Scott.

MATRICULATE
Ma*tric"u*late, v. i.

Defn: To go though the process of admission to membership, as by
examination and enrollment, in a society or college.

MATRICULATE
Ma*tric"u*late, a.

Defn: Matriculated. Skelton.
 -- n.

Defn: One who is matriculated. Arbuthnot.

MATRICULATION
Ma*tric`u*la"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of matriculating; the state of being
matriculated.

MATRIMOINE
Mat"ri*moine, n.

Defn: Matrimony. [Obs.]

MATRIMONIAL
Mat`ri*mo"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. matrimonialis: cf. F. matrimonial. See
Matrimony.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to marriage; derived from marriage; connubial;
nuptial; hymeneal; as, matrimonial rights or duties.
If he relied upon that title, he could be but a king at courtesy, and
have rather a matrimonial than a regal power. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Connubial; conjugal; sponsal; spousal; nuptial; hymeneal.

MATRIMONIALLY
Mat`ri*mo"ni*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a matrimonial manner.

MATRIMONIOUS
Mat`ri*mo"ni*ous, a.

Defn: Matrimonial. [R.] Milton.

MATRIMONY
Mat"ri*mo*ny, n. Etym: [OE. matrimoine, through Old French, fr. L.
matrimonium, fr. mater mother. See Mother.]

1. The union of man and woman as husband and wife; the nuptial state;
marriage; wedlock.
If either of you know any impediment, why ye may not be lawfully
joined together in matrimony, ye do now confessit. Book of Com.
Prayer (Eng. Ed. )

2. A kind of game at cards played by several persons. Matrimony vine
(Bot.), a climbing thorny vine (Lycium barbarum) of the Potato
family. Gray.

Syn.
 -- Marriage; wedlock. See Marriage.

MATRIX
Ma"trix, n.; pl. Matrices. Etym: [L., fr. mater mother. See Mother,
and cf. Matrice.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The womb.
All that openeth the matrix is mine. Ex. xxxiv. 19.

2. Hence, that which gives form or origin to anything; as:
(a) (Mech.) The cavity in which anything is formed, and which gives
it shape; a die; a mold, as for the face of a type.
(b) (Min.) The earthy or stony substance in which metallic ores or
crystallized minerals are found; the gangue. (c) pl. (Dyeing)

Defn: The five simple colors, black, white, blue, red, and yellow, of
which all the rest are composed.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: The lifeless portion of tissue, either animal or vegetable,
situated between the cells; the intercellular substance.

4. (Math.)

Defn: A rectangular arrangement of symbols in rows and columns. The
symbols may express quantities or operations.

MATRON
Ma"tron, n. Etym: [F. matrone, L. matrona, fr. mater mother. See
Mother.]

1. A wife or a widow, especially, one who has borne children; a woman
of staid or motherly manners.
Your wives, your daughters, Your matrons, and your maids. Shak.
Grave from her cradle, insomuch that she was a matron before she was
a mother. Fuller.

2. A housekeeper; esp., a woman who manages the domestic economy of a
public instution; a head nurse in a hospital; as, the matron of a
school or hospital. Jury of matrons (Law), a jury of experienced
women called to determine the question of pregnancy when set up in
bar of execution, and for other cognate purposes.

MATRONAGE
Mat"ron*age, n.

1. The state of a matron.

2. The collective body of matrons. Burke.
Can a politician slight the feelings and convictions of the whole
matronage of his country Hare.

MATRONAL
Mat"ron*al, a. Etym: [L. matronalis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a matron; suitable to an elderly lady or to
a married woman; grave; motherly.

MATRONHOOD
Ma"tron*hood, n.

Defn: The state of being a matron.

MATRONIZE
Mat"ron*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Matronized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Matronizing.]

1. To make a matron of; to make matronlike.
Childbed matronizes the giddiest spirits. Richardson.

2. To act the part of a marton toward; to superintend; to chaperone;
as, to matronize an assembly.

MATRONLIKE
Ma"tron*like`, a.

Defn: Like a matron; sedate; grave; matronly.

MATRONLY
Ma"tron*ly, a.

1. Advanced in years; elderly.

2. Like, or befitting, a matron; grave; sedate.

MATRONYMIC
Mat`ro*nym"ic, n. Etym: [L. mater mother + -nymic, as in patronimic.]

Defn: See Metronymic.

MATROSS
Ma*tross", n. Etym: [D. matroos, fr. F. matelot.] (Mil.)

Defn: Formerly, in the British service, a gunner or a gunner's mate;
one of the soldiers in a train of artillery, who assisted the gunners
in loading, firing, and sponging the guns. [Obs.]

MATT
Matt, n.

Defn: See Matte. Knight.

MATTAGES
Mat`ta*ges", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A shrike or butcher bird; -- written also matagasse. [Prov.
Eng.]

MATTAMORE
Mat"ta*more`, n. Etym: [F. matamore, from Ar. matm.]

Defn: A subterranean repository for wheat.

MATTE
Matte, n. Etym: [F. matte; cf. F. mat, masc., matte, fem., faint,
dull, dim; -- said of metals. See Mate checkmate.]

1. (Metallurgy)

Defn: A partly reduced copper sulphide, obtained by alternately
roasting and melting copper ore in separating the metal from
associated iron ores, and called coarse metal, fine metal, etc.,
according to the grade of fineness. On the exterior it is dark brown
or black, but on a fresh surface is yellow or bronzy in color.

2. A dead or dull finish, as in gilding where the gold leaf is not
burnished, or in painting where the surface is purposely deprived of
gloss.

MATTED
Mat"ted, a. Etym: [See Matte.]

Defn: Having a dull surface; unburnished; as, matted gold leaf or
gilding. Matted glass, glass ornamented with figures on a dull
ground.

MATTED
Mat"ted, a. Etym: [See 3d Mat.]

1. Covered with a mat or mats; as, a matted floor.

2. Tangled closely together; having its parts adhering closely
together; as, matted hair.

MATTER
Mat"ter, n. Etym: [OE. matere, F. matière, fr. L. materia; perh. akin
to L. mater mother. Cf. Mother, Madeira, Material.]

1. That of which anything is composed; constituent substance;
material; the material or substantial part of anything; the
constituent elements of conception; that into which a notion may be
analyzed; the essence; the pith; the embodiment.
He is the matter of virtue. B. Jonson.

2. That of which the sensible universe and all existent bodies are
composed; anything which has extension, occupies space, or is
perceptible by the senses; body; substance.

Note: Matter is usually divided by philosophical writers into three
kinds or classes: solid, liquid, and aëriform. Solid substances are
those whose parts firmly cohere and resist impression, as wood or
stone. Liquids have free motion among their parts, and easily yield
to impression, as water and wine. Aëriform substances are elastic
fluids, called vapors and gases, as air and oxygen gas.

3. That with regard to, or about which, anything takes place or is
done; the thing aimed at, treated of, or treated; subject of action,
discussion, consideration, feeling, complaint, legal action, or the
like; theme. "If the matter should be tried by duel." Bacon.
Son of God, Savior of men ! Thy name Shall be the copious matter of
my song. Milton.
Every great matter they shall bring unto thee, but every small matter
they shall judge. Ex. xviii. 22.

4. That which one has to treat, or with which one has to do; concern;
affair; business.
To help the matter, the alchemists call in many vanities out of
astrology. Bacon.
Some young female seems to have carried matters so far, that she is
ripe for asking advice. Spectator.

5. Affair worthy of account; thing of consequence; importance;
significance; moment; -- chiefly in the phrases what matter no
matter, and the like.
A prophet some, and some a poet, cry; No matter which, so neither of
them lie. Dryden.

6. Inducing cause or occasion, especially of anything disagreeable or
distressing; difficulty; trouble.
And this is the matter why interpreters upon that passage in Hosea
will not consent it to be a true story, that the prophet took a
harlot to wife. Milton.

7. Amount; quantity; portion; space; -- often indefinite.
Away he goes, . . . a matter of seven miles. L' Estrange.
I have thoughts to tarry a small matter. Congreve.
No small matter of British forces were commanded over sea the year
before. Mi
lton.

8. Substance excreted from living animal bodies; that which is thrown
out or discharged in a tumor, boil, or abscess; pus; purulent
substance.

9. (Metaph.)

Defn: That which is permanent, or is supposed to be given, and in or
upon which changes are effected by psychological or physical
processes and relations; -- opposed to form. Mansel.

10. (Print.)

Defn: Written manuscript, or anything to be set in type; copy; also,
type set up and ready to be used, or which has been used, in
printing. Dead matter (Print.), type which has been used, or which is
not to be used, in printing, and is ready for distribution.
 -- Live matter (Print.), type set up, but not yet printed from.
 -- Matter in bar, Matter of fact. See under Bar, and Fact.
 -- Matter of record, anything recorded.
 -- Upon the matter, or Upon the whole matter, considering the whole;
taking all things into view.
Waller, with Sir William Balfour, exceeded in horse, but were, upon
the whole matter, equal in foot. Clarendon.

MATTER
Mat"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mattered; p. pr. & vb. n. Mattering.]

1. To be of importance; to import; to signify.
It matters not how they were called. Locke.

2. To form pus or matter, as an abscess; to maturate. [R.] "Each
slight sore mattereth." Sir P. Sidney.

MATTER
Mat"ter, v. t.

Defn: To regard as important; to take account of; to care for. [Obs.]
He did not matter cold nor hunger. H. Brooke.

MATTERLESS
Mat"ter*less, a.

1. Not being, or having, matter; as, matterless spirits. Davies
(Wit's Pilgr. ).

2. Unimportant; immaterial. [Obs.]

MATTER-OF-FACT
Mat"ter-of-fact", a.

Defn: Adhering to facts; not turning aside from absolute realities;
not fanciful or imaginative; commonplace; dry.

MATTERY
Mat"ter*y, a.

1. Generating or containing pus; purulent.

2. Full of substance or matter; important. B. Jonson.

MATTING
Mat"ting, n. Etym: [From Mat, v. t. & i.]

1. The act of interweaving or tangling together so as to make a mat;
the process of becoming matted.

2. Mats, in general, or collectively; mat work; a matlike fabric, for
use in covering floors, packing articles, and the like; a kind of
carpeting made of straw, etc.

3. Materials for mats.

4. An ornamental border. See 3d Mat, 4.

MATTING
Mat"ting, n. Etym: [See Matte.]

Defn: A dull, lusterless surface in certain of the arts, as gilding,
metal work, glassmaking, etc.

MATTOCK
Mat"tock, n. Etym: [AS. mattuc; cf. W. matog.]

Defn: An implement for digging and grubbing. The head has two long
steel blades, one like an adz and the other like a narrow ax or the
point of a pickax.
'T is you must dig with mattock and with spade. Shak.

MATTOID
Mat"toid, n. [It. matto mad (cf. L. mattus, matus, drunk) + -oid.]

Defn: A person of congenitally abnormal mind bordering on insanity or
degeneracy.

MATTOIR
Mat*toir", n. [F. matoir.] (Engraving)

Defn: A kind of coarse punch with a rasplike face, used for making a
rough surface on etching ground, or on the naked copper, the effect
after biting being very similar to stippled lines.

MATTOWACCA
Mat`to*wac"ca, n. Etym: [Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American clupeoid fish (Clupea mediocris), similar to the
shad in habits and appearance, but smaller and less esteemed for
food; -- called also hickory shad, tailor shad, fall herring, and
shad herring.

MATTRESS
Mat"tress, n. Etym: [OF. materas, F. matelas, LL. matratium; cf. Sp.
& Pg. almadraque, Pr. almatrac; all from Ar. matsrah a place where
anything is thrown, what is thrown under something, fr. tsaraha to
throw.]

1. A quilted bed; a bed stuffed with hair, moss, or other suitable
material, and quilted or otherwise fastened. [Written also matress.]

2. (Hydraulic Engin.)

Defn: A mass of interwoven brush, poles, etc., to protect a bank from
being worn away by currents or waves.

MATURANT
Mat"u*rant, n. Etym: [L. maturans, p. pr. See Maturate.] (Med.)

Defn: A medicine, or application, which promotes suppuration.

MATURATE
Mat"u*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Maturated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Maturating.] Etym: [L. maturatus, p. p. of maturare to make ripe, fr.
maturus ripe, mature. See Mature, v. & a.]

1. To bring to ripeness or maturity; to ripen.
A tree may be maturated artificially. Fuller.

2. To promote the perfect suppuration of (an abscess).

MATURATE
Mat"u*rate, v. i.

Defn: To ripen; to become mature; specif

MATURATION
Mat`u*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. maturatio a hastening: cf. F.
maturation.]

Defn: The process of bringing, or of coming, to maturity; hence,
specifically, the process of suppurating perfectly; the formation of
pus or matter.

MATURATIVE
Mat"u*ra*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. maturatif.]

Defn: Conducing to ripeness or maturity; hence, conducing to
suppuration.

MATURATIVE
Mat"u*ra*tive, n. (Med.)

Defn: A remedy promoting maturation; a maturant.

MATURE
Ma*ture", a. [Compar. Maturer; superl. Maturest.] Etym: [L. maturus;
prob. akin to E. matin.]

1. Brought by natural process to completeness of growth and
development; fitted by growth and development for any function,
action, or state, appropriate to its kind; full-grown; ripe.
Now is love mature in ear. Tennison.
How shall I meet, or how accost, the sage, Unskilled in speech, nor
yet mature of age Pope.

2. Completely worked out; fully digested or prepared; ready for
action; made ready for destined application or use; perfected; as, a
mature plan.
This lies glowing, . . . and is almost mature for the violent
breaking out. Shak.

3. Of or pertaining to a condition of full development; as, a man of
mature years.

4. Come to, or in a state of, completed suppuration.

Syn.
 -- Ripe; perfect; completed; prepared; digested; ready.
 -- Mature, Ripe. Both words describe fullness of growth. Mature
brings to view the progressiveness of the process; ripe indicates the
result. We speak of a thing as mature when thinking of the successive
stayes through which it has passed; as ripe, when our attention is
directed merely to its state. A mature judgment; mature
consideration; ripe fruit; a ripe scholar.

MATURE
Ma*ture", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Matured; p. pr. & vb. n. Maturing.]
Etym: [See Maturate, Mature.]

Defn: To bring or hasten to maturity; to promote ripeness in; to
ripen; to complete; as, to mature one's plans. Bacon.

MATURE
Ma*ture", v. i.

1. To advance toward maturity; to become ripe; as, wine matures by
age; the judgment matures by age and experience.

2. Hence, to become due, as a note.

MATURELY
Ma*ture"ly, adv.

1. In a mature manner; with ripeness; completely.

2. With caution; deliberately. Dryden.

3. Early; soon. [A Latinism, little used] Bentley.

MATURENESS
Ma*ture"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being mature; maturity.

MATURER
Ma*tur"er, n.

Defn: One who brings to maturity.

MATURESCENT
Mat`u*res"cent, a. Etym: [L. maturescens, p. pr. of maturescere to
become ripe, v. incho. from maturus. See Mature, a.]

Defn: Approaching maturity.

MATURING
Ma*tur"ing, a.

Defn: Approaching maturity; as, maturing fruits; maturing notes of
hand.

MATURITY
Ma*tu"ri*ty, n. Etym: [L. maturitas: cf. F. maturité.]

1. The state or quality of being mature; ripeness; full development;
as, the maturity of corn or of grass; maturity of judgment; the
maturity of a plan.

2. Arrival of the time fixed for payment; a becoming due; termination
of the period a note, etc., has to run.

MATUTINAL
Mat`u*ti"nal, a. Etym: [L. matutinalis, matutinus: cf. F. matutinal.
See Matin.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the morning; early.

MATUTINARY
Ma*tu"ti*na*ry, a.

Defn: Matutinal. [R.]

MATUTINE
Mat"u*tine, a.

Defn: Matutinal. [R.]

MATWEED
Mat"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name of several maritime grasses, as the sea sand-reed
(Ammophila arundinacea) which is used in Holland to bind the sand of
the seacoast dikes (see Beach grass, under Beach); also, the Lygeum
Spartum, a Mediterranean grass of similar habit.

MATY
Mat"y, n. Etym: [Etymology uncertain.]

Defn: A native house servant in India. Balfour (Cyc. of India).

MATZOTH
Matz"oth, n. Etym: [Heb. matstsoth, pl. of matstsah unleavened.]

Defn: A cake of unleavened bread eaten by the Jews at the feast of
the Passover.

MAUCACO
Mau*ca"co, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lemur; -- applied to several species, as the White-fronted,
the ruffed, and the ring-tailed lemurs.

MAUD
Maud, n.

Defn: A gray plaid; -- used by shepherds in Scotland.

MAUDLE
Mau"dle, v. t.

Defn: To throw onto confusion or disorder; to render maudlin. [Obs.]

MAUDLIN
Maud"lin, a. Etym: [From Maudlin, a contr. of Magdalen, OE.
Maudeleyne, who is drawn by painters with eyes swelled and red with
weeping.]

1. Tearful; easily moved to tears; exciting to tears; excessively
sentimental; weak and silly. "Maudlin eyes." Dryden. "Maudlin
eloquence." Roscommon. "A maudlin poetess." Pope. "Maudlin crowd."
Southey.

2. Drunk, or somewhat drunk; fuddled; given to drunkenness.
Maudlin Clarence in his malmsey butt. Byron.

MAUDLIN; MAUDELINE
Maud"lin, Maude"line, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An aromatic composite herb, the costmary; also, the South
European Achillea Ageratum, a kind of yarrow.

MAUDLINISM
Maud"lin*ism, n.

Defn: A maudlin state. Dickens.

MAUDLINWORT
Maud"lin*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The oxeye daisy.

MAUGER; MAUGRE
Mau"ger, Mau"gre, prep. Etym: [OF. maugré, malgré, F. malgré. See
Mal-, Malice, and Agree.]

Defn: In spite of; in opposition to; notwithstanding.
A man must needs love maugre his heed. Chaucer.
This mauger all the world will I keep safe. Shak.

MAUGRE
Mau"gre, v. t.

Defn: To defy. [Obs.] J. Webster.

MAUKIN
Mau"kin, n.

1. See Malkin.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hare. [Scot.]

MAUL
Maul, n. Etym: [See Mall a hammer.]

Defn: A heavy wooden hammer or beetle. [Written also mall.]

MAUL
Maul, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mauled; p. pr. & vb. n. Mauling.]

1. To beat and bruise with a heavy stick or cudgel; to wound in a
coarse manner.
Meek modern faith to murder, hack, and maul. Pope.

2. To injure greatly; to do much harm to.
It mauls not only the person misrepreseted, but him also to whom he
is misrepresented. South.

MAULE
Maule, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The common mallow.

MAULING
Maul"ing, n.

Defn: A severe beating with a stick, cudgel, or the fist.

MAUL-STICK
Maul"-stick`, n. Etym: [G. malerstock; maler a painter + stock
stick.]

Defn: A stick used by painters as a rest for the hand while working.
[Written also mahl-stick.]

MAUMET
Mau"met, n.

Defn: See Mawmet. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MAUNCH
Maunch, v. t.

Defn: To munch. [Obs.]

MAUNCH
Maunch, n.

Defn: See Manche.

MAUND
Maund, n. Etym: [AS. mand, mond.]

Defn: A hand basket. [Obs.] Herrick.

MAUND
Maund, n. Etym: [Hind, & Per. man.]

Defn: An East Indian weight, varying in different localities from 25
to about 82 pounds avoirdupois.

MAUND; MAUNDER
Maund, Maund"er, v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. mendier to beg, E. mendicant.]

1. To beg. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Beau. & Fl.

2. To mutter; to mumble; to grumble; to speak indistinctly or
disconnectedly; to talk incoherently.
He was ever maundering by the how that he met a party of scarlet
devils. Sir W. Scott.

MAUNDER
Maund"er, v. t.

Defn: To utter in a grumbling manner; to mutter.

MAUNDER
Maund"er, n.

Defn: A beggar. [Obs.]

MAUNDERER
Maund"er*er, n.

Defn: One who maunders.

MAUNDRIL
Maun"dril, n. Etym: [Cf. Mandrel.] (Coa

Defn: A pick with two prongs, to pry with.

MAUNDY COINS; MAUNDY MONEY
Maundy coins or money.

Defn: Silver coins or money of the nominal value of 1d., 2d., 3d.,
and 4d., struck annually for the Maundy alms.

MAUNDY THURSDAY
Maun"dy Thurs"day. Etym: [OE. maunde a command, OF. mandé, L.
mandatum, from mandare to command. See called from the ancient custom
of washing the feet of the poor on this day, which was taken to be
the fulfillment of the "new commandment," John xiii. 5, 34.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The Thursday in Passion week, or next before Good Friday.

MAUNGY
Maun"gy, a.

Defn: Mangy. [Obs.] Skelton.

MAURESQUE
Mau*resque", a. & n.

Defn: See Moresque.

MAURIST
Maur"ist, n. Etym: [From Maurus, the favorite disciple of St.
Benedict.]

Defn: A member of the Congregation of Saint Maur, an offshoot of the
Benedictines, originating in France in the early part of the
seventeenth century. The Maurists have been distinguished for their
interest in literature.

MAUSOLEAN
Mau`so*le"an, a. Etym: [L. Mausoleus. See Mausoleum.]

Defn: Pertaining to a mausoleum; monumental.

MAUSOLEUM
Mau`so*le"um, n.; pl. E. Mausoleums, L. -lea. Etym: [L. mausoleum,
Gr.

Defn: A magnificent tomb, or stately sepulchral monument.

MAUTHER
Mau"ther, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. mæg a maid.] [Also spelled mawther,
mother.]

Defn: A girl; esp., a great, awkward girl; a wench. [Prov. Eng.]

MAUVANILINE
Mauv`an"i*line, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Mauve aniline, under Mauve.

MAUVE
Mauve, n. Etym: [F., mallow, L. malva. So named from the similarity
of the color to that of the petals of common mallow, Malva
sylvestris. See Mallow.]

Defn: A color of a delicate purple, violet, or lilac. Mauve aniline
(Chem.), a dyestuff produced artificially by the oxidation of
commercial aniline, and the first discovered of the so-called coal-
tar, or aniline, dyes. It consists of the sulphate of mauveïne, and
is a dark brown or bronze amorphous powder, which dissolves to a
beatiful purple color. Called also aniline purple, violine, etc.

MAUVEINE
Mauve"ïne, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An artificial organic base, obtained by oxidizing a mixture of
aniline and toluidine, and valuable for the dyestuffs it forms.
[Written also mauvine.]

MAUVINE
Mauv"ine, a.

Defn: Mauve-colored.

MAVERICK
Mav"er*ick, n.

Defn: In the southwestern part of the united States, a bullock or
heifer that has not been branded, and is unclaimed or wild; -- said
to be from Maverick, the name of a cattle owner in Texas who
naglected to brand his cattle.

MAVERICK BRAND
Maverick brand.

Defn: A brand originated by a dishonest cattleman, who, without
owning any stock, gradually accumulates a herd by finding mavericks.
[Western U. S.]

MAVIS
Ma"vis (ma"vîs), n. Etym: [F. mauvis, Arm. milvid, milfid,
milc'hhouid, Corn. melhuez.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European throstle or song thrush (Turdus musicus).

MAVOURNIN; MAVOURNEEN
Ma*vour"nin, Ma*vour"neen  (ma*voor"nen), n. [Ir. mo mhuirnin my
darling; mo my + mhuirnin darling.]

Defn: My darling; -- an Irish term of endearment for a girl or woman.
"Erin mavournin."  Campbell.

MAW
Maw, n. Etym: [See Mew a gull.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gull.

MAW
Maw, n. Etym: [OE. mawe, AS. maga stomach; akin to D. maag, OHG.
mago, G. magen, Icel. magi, Sw. mage, Dan. mave.

1. A stomach; the receptacle into which food is taken by swallowing;
in birds, the craw; -- now used only of the lower animals, exept
humorously or in contempt. Chaucer.
Bellies and maws of living creatures. Bacon.

2. Appetite; inclination. [Obs.]
Unless you had more maw to do me good. Beau. & Fl.
Fish maw. (Zoöl.) See under Fish.

MAW
Maw, n.

Defn: An old game at cards. Sir A. Weldon.

MAWK
Mawk, n. Etym: [OE. mauk, ma, Icel. ma; akin to Dan. maddik, and E.
mad an earthworm. See Mad, n.]

1. A maggot. [Scot.]

2. A slattern; a mawks. [Prov. Eng.]

MAWKIN
Maw"kin, n.

Defn: See Malkin, and Maukin.

MAWKINGLY
Mawk"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: Slatternly. [Obs.]

MAWKISH
Mawk"ish, a. Etym: [Orig., maggoty. See Mawk.]

1. Apt to cause satiety or loathing; nauseous; disgusting.
So sweetly mawkish', and so smoothly dull. Pope.

2. Easily disgusted; squeamish; sentimentally fastidious. J. H.
Newman.

MAWKISHLY
Mawk"ish*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mawkish way.

MAWKISHNESS
Mawk"ish*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being mawkish. J. H. Newman.

MAWKS
Mawks, n.

Defn: A slattern; a mawk. [Prov. Eng.]

MAWKY
Mawk"y, a.

Defn: Maggoty. [Prov. Eng.]

MAWMET
Maw"met, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. Mahomet.]

Defn: A puppet; a doll; originally, an idol, because in the Middle
Ages it was generally believed that the Mohammedans worshiped images
representing Mohammed. [Obs.] Wyclif. Beau. & Fl.

MAWMETRY
Maw"met*ry, n.

Defn: The religion of Mohammed; also, idolatry. See Mawmet. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

MAWMISH
Maw"mish, a. Etym: [Prov. E. maum soft, mellow, rotten; cf. OD. molm
rotten wood, G. mulm.]

Defn: Nauseous. [Obs.] L' Estrange.

MAWSEED
Maw"seed`, n. Etym: [Cf. G. magsamen.] (Bot.)

Defn: The seed of the opium poppy.

MAWWORM
Maw"worm`, n. Etym: [Maw the belly + worm.] (Zoöl.)
(a) Any intestinal worm found in the stomach, esp. the common round
worm (Ascaris lumbricoides), and allied species.
(b) One of the larvæ of botflies of horses; a bot.

MAXILLA
Max*il"la, n.; pl. Maxillæ. Etym: [L., dim. of mala jaw, jawbone.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) The bone of either the upper or the under jaw.
(b) The bone, or principal bone, of the upper jaw, the bone of the
lower jaw being the mandible. [Now commonly used in this restricted
sense.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the lower or outer jaws of arthropods.

Note: There are usually two pairs in Crustacea and one pair in
insects. In certain insects they are not used as jaws, but may form
suctorial organs. See Illust. under Lepidoptera, and Diptera.

MAXILLAR; MAXILLARY
Max"il*lar, Max"il*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. maxillaris, fr. maxilla
jawbone, jaw: cf. F. maxillaire.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to either the upper or the lower jaw, but now
usually applied to the upper jaw only.
 -- n.

Defn: The principal maxillary bone; the maxilla.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a maxilla.

MAXILLIFORM
Max*il"li*form, a. Etym: [Maxilla + -form: cf. F. maxilliforme.]

Defn: Having the form, or structure, of a maxilla.

MAXILLIPED
Max*il"li*ped, n. Etym: [Maxilla + L. pes, pedis, foot.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the mouth appendages of Crustacea, situated next behind
the maxillæ. Crabs have three pairs, but many of the lower Crustacea
have but one pair of them. Called also jawfoot, and foot jaw.

MAXILLO-MANDIBULAR
Max*il`lo-man*dib"u*lar, a. Etym: [Maxilla + mandibular.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the maxilla and mandible; as, the maxillo-
mandibular nerve.

MAXILLO-PALATINE
Max*il`lo-pal"a*tine, a. Etym: [Maxilla + palatine.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the maxillary and palatine regions of the skull;
as, the maxillo-palatine process of the maxilla. Also used as n.

MAXILLOTURBINAL
Max*il`lo*tur`bi*nal, a. Etym: [Maxilla + turbinal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the maxillary and turbinal regions of the skull.
 -- n.

Defn: The maxillo-turbinal, or inferior turbinate, bone.

MAXIM
Max"im, n. Etym: [F. maxime, L. maxima (sc. sententia), the greatest
sentence, proposition, or axiom, i. e., of the greatest weight or
authority, fem. fr. maximus greatest, superl. of magnus great. See
Magnitude, and cf. Maximum.]

1. An established principle or proposition; a condensed proposition
of important practical truth; an axiom of practical wisdom; an adage;
a proverb; an aphorism.
'T is their maxim, Love is love's reward. Dryden.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The longest note formerly used, equal to two longs, or four
breves; a large.

Syn.
 -- Axiom; aphorism; apothegm; adage; proverb; saying. See Axiom.

MAXIM GUN
Max"im gun`.

Defn: A kind of machine gun; -- named after its inventor, Hiram S.
Maxim.

MAXIMILIAN
Max`i*mil"ian, n. Etym: [From the proper name.]

Defn: A gold coin of Bavaria, of the value of about 13s. 6d.
sterling, or about three dollars and a quarter.

MAXIMIZATION
Max`i*mi*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of increasing to the highest degree.
Bentham.

MAXIMIZE
Max"i*mize, v. t. Etym: [L. maximus greatest.]

Defn: To increase to the highest degree. Bentham.

MAXIMUM
Max"i*mum, n.; pl. Maxima. Etym: [L., neut. from maximus the
greatest. See Maxim.]

Defn: The greatest quantity or value attainable in a given case; or,
the greatest value attained by a quantity which first increases and
then begins to decrease; the highest point or degree; -- opposed to
Ant: minimum.
Good legislation is the art of conducting a nation to the maximum of
happiness, and the minimum of misery. P. Colquhoun.
Maximum thermometer, a thermometer that registers the highest degree
of temperature attained in a given time, or since its last
adjustment.

MAXIMUM
Max"i*mum, a.

Defn: Greatest in quantity or highest in degree attainable or
attained; as, a maximum consumption of fuel; maximum pressure;
maximum heat.

MAY
May, v. [imp. Might] Etym: [AS. pres. mæg I am able, pret. meahte,
mihte; akin to D. mogen, G. mögen, OHG. mugan, magan, Icel. mega,
Goth. magan, Russ. moche. Dismay, Main strength, Might. The old imp.
mought is obsolete, except as a provincial word.]

Defn: An auxiliary verb qualifyng the meaning of another verb, by
expressing: (a) Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now oftener
expressed by can.
How may a man, said he, with idle speech, Be won to spoil the castle
of his health ! Spenser.
For what he [the king] may do is of two kinds; what he may do as
just, and what he may do as possible. Bacon.
For of all sad words of tongue or pen The saddest are these: "It
might have been." Whittier.
(b) Liberty; permission; allowance.
Thou mayst be no longer steward. Luke xvi. 2.
(c) Contingency or liability; possibility or probability.
Though what he learns he speaks, and may advance Some general maxims,
or be right by chance. Pope.
(d) Modesty, courtesy, or concession, or a desire to soften a
question or remark.
How old may Phillis be, you ask. Prior.
(e) Desire or wish, as in prayer, imprecation, benediction, and the
like. "May you live happily." Dryden. May be, and It may be, are used
as equivalent to possibly, perhaps, by chance, peradventure. See 1st
Maybe.

MAY
May, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. mær, Goth. mawi; akin to E. maiden.

Defn: A maiden. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MAY
May, n. Etym: [F. Mai, L. Maius; so named in honor of the goddess
Maia (Gr.

1. The fifth month of the year, containing thirty-one days. Chaucer.

2. The early part or springtime of life.
His May of youth, and bloom of lustihood. Shak.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called from their time of
blossoming; also, the hawthorn.
The palm and may make country houses gay. Nash.
Plumes that micked the may. Tennyson.

4. The merrymaking of May Day. Tennyson. Italian may (Bot.), a
shrubby species of Spiræa (S. hypericifolia) with many clusters of
small white flowers along the slender branches.
 -- May apple (Bot.), the fruit of an American plant (Podophyllum
peltatum). Also, the plant itself (popularly called mandrake), which
has two lobed leaves, and bears a single egg-shaped fruit at the
forking. The root and leaves, used in medicine, are powerfully
drastic.
 -- May beetle, May bug (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of large
lamellicorn beetles that appear in the winged state in May. They
belong to Melolontha, and allied genera. Called also June beetle.
 -- May Day, the first day of May; -- celebrated in the rustic parts
of England by the crowning of a May queen with a garland, and by
dancing about a May pole.
 -- May dew, the morning dew of the first day of May, to which
magical properties were attributed.
 -- May flower (Bot.), a plant that flowers in May; also, its
blossom. See Mayflower, in the vocabulary.
 -- May fly (Zoöl.), any species of Ephemera, and allied genera; --
so called because the mature flies of many species appear in May. See
Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral.
 -- May game, any May-day sport.
 -- May lady, the queen or lady of May, in old May games.
 -- May lily (Bot.), the lily of the valley (Convallaria majalis).
 -- May pole. See Maypole in the Vocabulary.
 -- May queen, a girl or young woman crowned queen in the sports of
May Day.
 -- May thorn, the hawthorn.

MAYA
Ma"ya, n. (Hindoo Philos.)

Defn: The name for the doctrine of the unreality of matter, called,
in English, idealism; hence, nothingness; vanity; illusion.

MAYAN
Ma"yan, a.

1. Designating, or pertaining to, an American Indian linguistic stock
occupying the Mexican States of Veracruz, Chiapas, Tabasco, Campeche,
and Yucatan, together with a part of Guatemala and a part of
Salvador. The Mayan peoples are dark, short, and brachycephallic, and
at the time of the discovery had attained a higher grade of culture
than any other American people. They cultivated a variety of crops,
were expert in the manufacture and dyeing of cotton fabrics, used
cacao as a medium of exchange, and were workers of gold, silver, and
copper. Their architecture comprised elaborately carved temples and
places, and they possessed a superior calendar, and a developed
system of hieroglyphic writing, with records said to go back to about
700 a. d.

2.  Of or pertaining to the Mayas.

MAYAN ARCH; MAYA ARCH
Mayan arch, or Maya arch .

Defn: A form of corbel arch employing regular small corbels.

MAYBE
May"be, adv. Etym: [For it may be.]

Defn: Perhaps; possibly; peradventure.
Maybe the amorous count solicits her. Shak.
In a liberal and, maybe, somewhat reckless way. Tylor.

MAYBE
May"be, a.

Defn: Possible; probable, but not sure. [R.]
Then add those maybe years thou hast to live. Driden.

MAYBE
May"be, n.

Defn: Possibility; uncertainty. [R.]
What they offer is mere maybe and shift. Creech.

MAYBIRD
May"bird`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The whimbrel; -- called also May fowl, May curlew, and May whaap.
(b) The knot. [Southern U. S.]
(c) The bobolink.

MAYBLOOM
May"bloom`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The hawthorn.

MAYBUSH
May"bush`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The hawthorn.

MAYDUKE
May"duke`, n. Etym: [Corrupt. of Médoc, a province in France, where
it is supposed to have originated.]

Defn: A large dark-red cherry of excellent quality.

MAYFISH
May"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A common American minnow (Fundulus majalis). See Minnow.

MAYFLOWER
May"flow`er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: In England, the hawthorn; in New England, the trailing arbutus
(see Arbutus); also, the blossom of these plants.

MAYHAP
May"hap, adv.

Defn: Perhaps; peradventure. [Prov. or Dialectic]

MAYHEM
May"hem, n. Etym: [The same as maim. See Maim.] (Law)

Defn: The maiming of a person by depriving him of the use of any of
his members which are necessary for defense or protection. See Maim.

MAYING
May"ing, n.

Defn: The celebrating of May Day. "He met her once a-Maying." Milton.

MAY LAWS
May laws.

1. See Kulturkampf, above.

2.  In Russia, severe oppressive laws against Jews, which have given
occasion for great persecution; -- so called because they received
the assent of the czar in May, 1882, and because likened to the
Prussian May laws (see Kulturkampf).

MAYONNAISE
Ma`yon`naise", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A sauce compounded of raw yolks of eggs beaten up with olive
oil to the consistency of a sirup, and seasoned with vinegar, pepper,
salt, etc.; -- used in dressing salads, fish, etc. Also, a dish
dressed with this sauce.

MAYOR
May"or, n. Etym: [OE. maire, F. maire, fr. L. major greater, higher,
nobler, compar. of magnus great; cf. Sp. mayor. See Major, and cf.
Merino.]

Defn: The chief magistrate of a city or borough; the chief officer of
a municipal corporation. In some American cities there is a city
court of which the major is chief judge.

MAYORAL
May"or*al, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. mayor greater, L. major.]

Defn: The conductir of a mule team; also, a head shepherd.

MAYORALTY
May"or*al*ty, n.

Defn: The office, or the term of office, of a mayor.

MAYORESS
May"or*ess, n.

Defn: The wife of a mayor.

MAYORSHIP
May"or*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a mayor.

MAYPOLE
May"pole`, n.

Defn: A tall pole erected in an open place and wreathed with flowers,
about which the rustic May-day sports were had.

MAYPOP
May"pop, n. Etym: [Perh. corrupt. fr. maracock.] (Bot.)

Defn: The edible fruit of a passion flower, especially that of the
North American Passiflora incarnata, an oval yellowish berry as large
as a small apple.

MAYWEED
May"weed`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A composite plant (Anthemis Cotula), having a strong odor; dog's
fennel. It is a native of Europe, now common by the roadsides in the
United States.
(b) The feverfew.

MAZAMA; MAZAME
Ma*za"ma, Ma*za"me, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A goatlike antelope (Haplocerus montanus) which inhabits the
Rocky Mountains, frequenting the highest parts; -- called also
mountain goat.

MAZARD
Maz"ard, n. Etym: [Cf. F. merise a wild cherry.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of small black cherry.

MAZARD
Maz"ard, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. mazer, the head being compared to a
large goblet.]

Defn: The jaw; the head or skull. [Obs.] Shak.

MAZARD
Maz"ard, v. t.,

Defn: To knock on the head. [Obs.]

MAZARINE
Maz`a*rine", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cardinal Mazarin, prime minister of France,
1643-1661. Mazarine Bible, the first Bible, and perhaps the first
complete book, printed with movable metal types; -- printed by
Gutenberg at Mentz, 1450-55; -- so called because a copy was found in
the Mazarine Library, at Paris, about 1760.
 -- Mazarine blue, a deep blue color, named in honor of Cardinal
Mazarin.

MAZARINE
Maz`a*rine", n.

Defn: Mazarine blue.

MAZDEAN
Maz"de*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Ahura-Mazda, or Ormuzd, the beneficent
deity in the Zoroastrian dualistic system; hence, Zoroastrian.

MAZDEISM
Maz"de*ism, n.

Defn: The Zoroastrian religion.

MAZE
Maze, n. Etym: [OE. mase; cf. OE. masen to confuse, puzzle, Norweg.
masast to fall into a slumber, masa to be continually busy, prate,
chatter, Icel. masa to chatter, dial. Sw. masa to bask, be slow, work
slowly and lazily, mas slow, lazy.]

1. A wild fancy; a confused notion. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Confusion of thought; perplexity; uncertainty; state of
bewilderment.

3. A confusing and baffling network, as of paths or passages; an
intricacy; a labyrinth. "Quaint mazes on the wanton green." Shak.
Or down the tempting maze of Shawford brook. Wordaworth.
The ways of Heaven are dark and intricate, Puzzled with mazes, and
perplexed with error. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Labyrinth; intricacy. See Labyrinth.

MAZE
Maze, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mazed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mazing.]

Defn: To perplex greatly; to bewilder; to astonish and confuse; to
amaze. South.

MAZE
Maze, v. i.

Defn: To be bewildered. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MAZEDNESS
Maz"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The condition of being mazed; confusion; astonishment. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

MAZEFUL
Maze"ful, a.

Defn: Mazy. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

MAZER
Maz"er, n. Etym: [OE. maser, akin to OD. maser an excrescence on a
maple tree, OHG. masar, G. maser spot, Icel. mösurr maple.]

Defn: A large drinking bowl; -- originally made of maple. [Obs.]
Their brimful mazers to the feasting bring. Drayton.

MAZILY
Ma"zi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mazy manner.

MAZINESS
Ma"zi*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being mazy.

MAZOLOGICAL
Maz`o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to mazology.

MAZOLOGIST
Ma*zol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in mazology or mastology.

MAZOLOGY
Ma*zol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: Same as Mastology.

MAZOURKA; MAZURKA
Ma*zour"ka, Ma*zur"ka, n.

Defn: A Polish dance, or the music which accompanies it, usually in
3-4 or 3-8 measure, with a strong accent on the second beat.

MAZY
Ma"zy, a. Etym: [From Maze.]

Defn: Perplexed with turns and windings; winding; intricate;
confusing; perplexing; embarrassing; as, mazy error. Milton.
To range amid the mazy thicket. Spenser.
To run the ring, and trace the mazy round. Dryden.

ME
Me, pron.

Defn: One. See Men, pron. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ME
Me, pers. pron. Etym: [AS. m, dat. & acc., mec, acc. only ; akin to
D. mij, G. mich, Icel. & Goth. mik, L. me, Gr. ma, mam. Mine.]

Defn: The person speaking, regarded as an object; myself; a pronoun
of the first person used as the objective and dative case of the
pronoum I; as, he struck me; he gave me the money, or he gave the
money to me; he got me a hat, or he got a hat for me.

Note: In methinks, me is properly in the dative case, and the verb is
impersonal, the construction being, it appears to me. In early use me
was often placed before forms of the verb to be with an adjective;
as, me were lief.
Me rather had my heart might frrl your love Than my unpleased eye see
your courtesy. Shak.

MEACH
Meach, v. i.

Defn: To skulk; to cower. See Mich.

MEACOCK
Mea"cock, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. meek + cock.]

Defn: An uxorious, effeminate, or spiritless man. [Obs.] Johnson.

MEAD
Mead, n. Etym: [OE. mede, AS. meodo; akin to D. mede, G. met, meth,
OHG. metu, mitu, Icel. mjö, Dan. miöd, Sw. mjöd, Russ. med', Lith.
midus, W. medd, Gr. madhu honey, a sweet drink, as adj., sweet.
Metheglin.]

1. A fermented drink made of water and honey with malt, yeast, etc.;
metheglin; hydromel. Chaucer.

2. A drink composed of sirup of sarsaparilla or other flavoring
extract, and water. It is sometimes charged with carbonic acid gas.
[U. S.]

MEAD
Mead, n. Etym: [AS. m. See Meadow.]

Defn: A meadow.
A mede All full of freshe flowers, white and reede. Chaucer.
To fertile vales and dewy meads My weary, wandering steps he leads.
Addison.

MEADOW
Mead"ow, n. Etym: [AS. meady; akin to m, and to G. matte; prob. also
to E. mow. See Mow to cut (grass), and cf. 2d Mead.]

1. A tract of low or level land producing grass which is mown for
hay; any field on which grass is grown for hay.

2. Low land covered with coarse grass or rank herbage near rives and
in marshy places by the sea; as, the salt meadows near Newark Bay.

MEADOW
Mead"ow, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a meadow; of the nature of a meadow;
produced, growing, or living in, a meadow. "Fat meadow ground."
Milton.

Note: For many names of plants compounded with meadow, see the
particular word in the Vocabulary. Meadow beauty. (Bot.) Same as
Deergrass.
 -- Meadow foxtail (Bot.), a valuable pasture grass (Alopecurus
pratensis) resembling timothy, but with softer spikes.
 -- Meadow grass (Bot.), a name given to several grasses of the genus
Poa, common in meadows, and of great value for nay and for pasture.
See Grass.
 -- Meadow hay, a coarse grass, or true sedge, growing in
uncultivated swamp or river meadow; -- used as fodder or bedding for
cattle, packing for ice, etc. [Local, U. S.] -- Meadow hen. (Zoöl.)
(a) The American bittern. See Stake-driver. (b) The American coot
(Fulica). (c) The clapper rail.
 -- Meadow lark (Zoöl.), any species of Sturnella, a genus of
American birds allied to the starlings. The common species (S. magna)
has a yellow breast with a black crescent.
 -- Meadow mouse (Zoöl.), any mouse of the genus Arvicola, as the
common American species A. riparia; -- called also field mouse, and
field vole.
 -- Meadow mussel (Zoöl.), an American ribbed mussel (Modiola
plicatula), very abundant in salt marshes.
 -- Meadow ore (Min.), bog-iron ore , a kind of limonite.
 -- Meadow parsnip. (Bot.) See under Parsnip.
 -- Meadow pink. (Bot.) See under Pink.
 -- Meadow pipit (Zoöl.), a small singing bird of the genus Anthus,
as A. pratensis, of Europe.
 -- Meadow rue (Bot.), a delicate early plant, of the genus
Thalictrum, having compound leaves and numerous white flowers. There
are many species.
 -- Meadow saffron. (Bot.) See under Saffron.
 -- Meadow sage. (Bot.) See under Sage.
 -- Meadow saxifrage (Bot.), an umbelliferous plant of Europe (Silaus
pratensis), somewhat resembling fennel.
 -- Meadow snipe (Zoöl.), the common or jack snipe.

MEADOWSWEET; MEADOWWORT
Mead"ow*sweet`, Mead"ow*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of several plants of the genus Spiræa, especially the
white- or pink-flowered S. salicifolia, a low European and American
shrub, and the herbaceous S. Ulmaria, which has fragrant white
flowers in compound cymes.

MEADOWY
Mead"ow*y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to meadows; resembling, or consisting of,
meadow.

MEAGER; MEAGRE
Mea"ger, Mea"gre, a. Etym: [OE. merge, F. maigre, L. macer; akin to
D. & G. mager, Icel. magr, and prob. to Gr. Emaciate, Maigre.]

1. Destitue of, or having little, flesh; lean.
Meager were his looks; Sharp misery had worn him to the bones. Shak.

2. Destitute of richness, fertility, strength, or the like; defective
in quantity, or poor in quality; poor; barren; scanty in ideas;
wanting strength of diction or affluence of imagery. "Meager soil."
Dryden.
Of secular habits and meager religious belief. I. Taylor.
His education had been but meager. Motley.

3. (Min.)

Defn: Dry and harsh to the touch, as chalk.

Syn.
 -- Thin; lean; lank; gaunt; starved; hungry; poor; emaciated;
scanty; barren.

MEAGER; MEAGRE
Mea"ger, Mea"gre, v. t.

Defn: To make lean. [Obs.]

MEAGERLY; MEAGRELY
Mea"ger*ly, Mea"gre*ly, adv.

Defn: Poorly; thinly.

MEAGERNESS; MEAGRENESS
Mea"ger*ness, Mea"gre*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being meager; leanness; scantiness;
barrenness.

MEAGRE
Mea"gre, n. Etym: [F. maigre.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large European sciænoid fish (Sciæna umbra or S. aquila),
having white bloodless flesh. It is valued as a food fish. [Written
also maigre.]

MEAK
Meak, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. m sword, OS. maki, Icel. mækir.]

Defn: A hook with a long handle. [Obs.] Tusser.

MEAKING
Meak"ing, n. Etym: [See Meak.] (Naut.)

Defn: The process of picking out the oakum from the seams of a vessel
which is to be recalked. Meaking iron (Naut.), the tool with which
old oakum is picked out of a vessel's seams.

MEAL
Meal, n. Etym: [OE. mele, AS. m part, portion, portion of time; akin
to E. meal a repast. Cf. Piecemeal.]

Defn: A part; a fragment; a portion. [Obs.]

MEAL
Meal, n. Etym: [OE. mel; akin to E. meal a part, and to D. maal time,
meal, G. mal time, mahl meal, Icel. mal measure, time, meal, Goth. m
time, and to E. measure. See Measure.]

Defn: The portion of food taken at a particular time for the
satisfaction of appetite; the quantity usually taken at one time with
the purpose of satisfying hunger; a repast; the acas, the traveler
has not eaten a good meal for a week; there was silence during the
meal.
What strange fish Hath made his meal on thee Shak.

MEAL
Meal, n. Etym: [OE. mele, AS. melu, melo; akin to D. meel, G. mehl,
OHG. melo, Icel. mjöl, SW. mjöl, Dan. meel, also to D. malen to
grind, G. mahlen, OHG., OS., & Goth. malan, Icel. mala, W. malu, L.
molere, Gr. mill. Mill, Mold soil, Mole an animal, Immolate, Molar.]

1. Grain (esp. maize, rye, or oats) that is coarsely ground and
unbolted; also, a kind of flour made from beans, pease, etc.;
sometimes, any flour, esp. if coarse.

2. Any substance that is coarsely pulverized like meal, but not
granulated. Meal beetle (Zoöl.), the adult of the meal worm. See Meal
worm, below.
 -- Meal moth (Zoöl.), a lepidopterous insect (Asopia farinalis), the
larvæ of which feed upon meal, flour, etc.
 -- Meal worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a beetle (Tenebrio molitor) which
infests granaries, bakehouses, etc., and is very injurious to flour
and meal.

MEAL
Meal, v. t.

1. To sprinkle with, or as with, meal. Shak.

2. To pulverize; as, mealed powder.

MEALIES
Meal"ies, n. pl. Etym: [From Mealy.] (Bot.)

Defn: Maize or Indian corn; -- the common name in South Africa.

MEALINESS
Meal"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being mealy.

MEAL-MOUTHED
Meal"-mouthed`, a.

Defn: See Mealy-mouthed.

MEALTIME
Meal"time`, n.

Defn: The usual time of eating a meal.

MEALY
Meal"y, a. [Compar. Mealier; superl. Mealiest.]

1. Having the qualities of meal; resembling meal; soft, dry, and
friable; easily reduced to a condition resembling meal; as, a mealy
potato.

2. Overspread with something that resembles meal; as, the mealy wings
of an insect. Shak. Mealy bug (Zoöl.), a scale insect (Coccus
adonidum, and related species), covered with a white powderlike
substance. It is a common pest in hothouses.

MEALY-MOUTHED
Meal"y-mouthed`, a.

Defn: Using soft words; plausible; affectedly or timidly delicate of
speech; unwilling to tell the truth in plain language. "Mealy-mouthed
philanthropies." Tennyson.
She was a fool to be mealy-mouthed where nature speaks so plain.
L'Estrange.
-- Meal"y-mouth`ness, n.

MEAN
Mean, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Meant; p. pr. & vb. n. Meaning.] Etym: [OE.
menen, AS. mænan to recite, tell, intend, wish; akin to OS. menian to
have in mind, mean, D. meenen, G. meinen, OHG. meinan, Icel. meina,
Sw. mena, Dan. mene, and to E. mind. Mind, and cf. Moan.]

1. To have in the mind, as a purpose, intention, etc.; to intend; to
purpose; to design; as, what do you mean to do
What mean ye by this service Ex. xii. 26.
Ye thought evil against me; but God meant it unto good. Gen. 1. 20.
I am not a Spaniard To say that it is yours and not to mean it.
Longfellow.

2. To signify; to indicate; to import; to denote.
What mean these seven ewe lambs Gen. xxi. 29.
Go ye, and learn what that me. Matt. ix. 13.

MEAN
Mean, v. i.

Defn: To have a purpose or intention. [Rare, except in the phrase to
mean well, or ill.] Shak.

MEAN
Mean, a. [Compar. Meaner; superl. Meanest.] Etym: [OE. mene, AS. m
wicked; akin to man, a., wicked, n., wickedness, OS. m wickedness,
OHG. mein, G. meineid perjury, Icel. mein harm, hurt, and perh. to
AS. gem common, general, D. gemeen, G. gemein, Goth. gamáins, and L.
communis. The AS. gem prob. influenced the meaning.]

1. Destitute of distinction or eminence; common; low; vulgar; humble.
"Of mean parentage." Sir P. Sidney.
The mean man boweth down, and the great man humbleth himself. Is. ii.
9.

2. Wanting dignity of mind; low-minded; base; destitute of honor;
spiritless; as, a mean motive.
Can you imagine I so mean could prove, To save my life by changing of
my love Dryden.

3. Of little value or account; worthy of little or no regard;
contemptible; despicable.
The Roman legions and great Cæsar found Our fathers no mean foes. J.
Philips.

4. Of poor quality; as, mean fare.

5. Penurious; stingy; close-fisted; illiberal; as, mean hospitality.

Note: Mean is sometimes used in the formation of compounds, the sense
of which is obvious without explanation; as, meanborn, mean-looking,
etc.

Syn.
 -- Base; ignoble; abject; beggarly; wretched; degraded; degenerate;
vulgar; vile; servile; menial; spiritless; groveling; slavish;
dishonorable; disgraceful; shameful; despicable; contemptible;
paltry; sordid. See Base.

MEAN
Mean, a. Etym: [OE. mene, OF. meiien, F. moyen, fr. L. medianus that
is in the middle, fr. medius; akin to E. mid. See Mid.]

1. Occupying a middle position; middle; being about midway between
extremes.
Being of middle age and a mean stature. Sir. P. Sidney.

2. Intermediate in excellence of any kind.
According to the fittest style of lofty, mean, or lowly. Milton.

3. (Math.)

Defn: Average; having an intermediate value between two extremes, or
between the several successive values of a variable quantity during
one cycle of variation; as, mean distance; mean motion; mean solar
day. Mean distance (of a planet from the sun) (Astron.), the average
of the distances throughout one revolution of the planet, equivalent
to the semi-major axis of the orbit.
 -- Mean error (Math. Phys.), the average error of a number of
observations found by taking the mean value of the positive and
negative errors without regard to sign.
 -- Mean-square error, or Error of the mean square (Math. Phys.), the
error the square of which is the mean of the squares of all the
errors; -- called also, especially by European writers, mean error.
 -- Mean line. (Crystallog.) Same as Bisectrix.
 -- Mean noon, noon as determined by mean time.
 -- Mean proportional (between two numbers) (Math.), the square root
of their product.
 -- Mean sun, a fictitious sun supposed to move uniformly in the
equator so as to be on the meridian each day at mean noon.
 -- Mean time, time as measured by an equable motion, as of a perfect
clock, or as reckoned on the supposition that all the days of the
year are of a mean or uniform length, in contradistinction from
apparent time, or that actually indicated by the sun, and from
sidereal time, or that measured by the stars.

MEAN
Mean, n.

1. That which is mean, or intermediate, between two extremes of
place, time, or number; the middle point or place; middle rate or
degree; mediocrity; medium; absence of extremes or excess;
moderation; measure.
But to speak in a mean, the virtue of prosperity is temperance; the
virtue of adversity is fortitude. Bacon.
There is a mean in all things. Dryden.
The extremes we have mentioned, between which the wellinstracted
Christian holds the mean, are correlatives. I. Taylor.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A quantity having an intermediate value between several others,
from which it is derived, and of which it expresses the resultant
value; usually, unless otherwise specified, it is the simple average,
formed by adding the quantities together and dividing by their
number, which is called an arithmetical mean. A geometrical mean is
the square root of the product of the quantities.

3. That through which, or by the help of which, an end is attained;
something tending to an object desired; intermediate agency or
measure; necessary condition or coagent; instrument.
Their virtuous conversation was a mean to work the conversion of the
heathen to Christ. Hooker.
You may be able, by this mean, to review your own scientific
acquirements. Coleridge.
Philosophical doubt is not an end, but a mean. Sir W. Hamilton.

Note: In this sense the word is usually employed in the plural form
means, and often with a singular attribute or predicate, as if a
singular noun.
By this means he had them more at vantage. Bacon.
What other means is left unto us. Shak.

4. pl.

Defn: Hence: Resources; property, revenue, or the like, considered as
the condition of easy livelihood, or an instrumentality at command
for effecting any purpose; disposable force or substance.
Your means are very slender, and your waste is great. Shak.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: A part, whether alto or tenor, intermediate between the soprano
and base; a middle part. [Obs.]
The mean is drowned with your unruly base. Shak.

6. Meantime; meanwhile. [Obs.] Spenser.

7. A mediator; a go-between. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
He wooeth her by means and by brokage. Chaucer.
By all means, certainly; without fail; as, go, by all means.
 -- By any means, in any way; possibly; at all.
If by any means I might attain to the resurrection of the dead. Phil.
iii. ll.
-- By no means, or By no manner of means, not at all; certainly not;
not in any degree.
The wine on this side of the lake is by no means so good as that on
the other. Addison.

MEANDER
Me*an"der, n. Etym: [L. Maeander, orig., a river in Phrygia,
proverbial for its many windings, Gr. méandre.]

1. A winding, crooked, or involved course; as, the meanders of the
veins and arteries. Sir M. Hale.
While lingering rivers in meanders glide. Sir R. Blackmore.

2. A tortuous or intricate movement.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: Fretwork. See Fret.

MEANDER
Me*an"der, v. t.

Defn: To wind, turn, or twist; to make flexuous. Dryton.

MEANDER
Me*an"der, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Meandered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Meandering.]

Defn: To wind or turn in a course or passage; to be intricate.
Five miles meandering with a mazy motion Through wood and dale the
sacred river ran. Coleridge.

MEANDRIAN
Me*an"dri*an, a. Etym: [L. Maeandrius: cf. F. méandrien.]

Defn: Winding; having many turns.

MEANDRINA
Me`an*dri"na, n. Etym: [NL.: cf. F. méandrine.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of corals with meandering grooves and ridges, including
the brain corals.

MEANDROUS; MEANDRY
Me*an"drous, Me*an"dry, a.

Defn: Winding; flexuous.

MEANING
Mean"ing, n.

1. That which is meant or intended; intent; purpose; aim; object; as,
a mischievous meaning was apparent.
If there be any good meaning towards you. Shak.

2. That which is signified, whether by act lanquage; signification;
sence; import; as, the meaning of a hint.

3. Sense; power of thinking. [R.] -- Mean"ing*less, a.
 -- Mean"ing*ly, adv.

MEANLY
Mean"ly, adv. Etym: [Mean middle.]

Defn: Moderately. [Obs.]
A man meanly learned himself, but not meanly affectioned to set
forward learning in others. Ascham.

MEANLY
Mean"ly, adv. Etym: [From Mean low.]

Defn: In a mean manner; unworthily; basely; poorly; ungenerously.
While the heaven-born child All meanly wrapt in the rude manger lies.
Milton.
Would you meanly thus rely On power you know I must obey Prior.
We can not bear to have others think meanly of them [our kindred]. I.
Watts.

MEANNESS
Mean"ness, n.

1. The condition, or quality, of being mean; want of excellence;
poorness; lowness; baseness; sordidness; stinginess.
This figure is of a later date, by the meanness of the workmanship.
Addison.

2. A mean act; as, to be guilty of meanness. Goldsmith.

MEAN-SPIRITED
Mean"-spir`it*ed, a.

Defn: Of a mean spirit; base; groveling.
 -- Mean"-spir`it*ed*ness, n.

MEANT
Meant, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Mean.

MEANTIME; MEANWHILE
Mean"time`, Mean"while`, n.

Defn: The intervening time; as, in the meantime (or mean time).

MEANTIME; MEANWHILE
Mean"time`, Mean"while`, adv.

Defn: In the intervening time; during the interval.

MEAR
Mear, n.

Defn: A boundary. See Mere. [Obs.]

MEASE
Mease, n. Etym: [Cf. G. mass measure.]

Defn: Five hundred; as, a mease of herrings. [Prov. Eng.]

MEASELRY
Mea"sel*ry, n. Etym: [OE. meselrie, OF. mesellerie. See lst Measle.]

Defn: Leprosy. [Obs.] R. of Brunne.

MEASLE
Mea"sle, n. Etym: [OE. mesel, OF. mesel, LL. misellus, L. misellus
unfortunate, dim. of miser. See Miser.]

Defn: A leper. [Obs.] [Written also meazel, and mesel.] Wyclif (Matt.
x. 8. ).

MEASLE
Mea"sle, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tapeworm larva. See 2d Measles, 4.

MEASLED
Mea"sled, a. Etym: [See 2d Measles.]

Defn: Infected or spotted with measles, as pork.
 -- Mea"sled*ness, n.

MEASLES
Mea"sles, n. Etym: [From lst Measle.]

Defn: Leprosy; also, a leper. [Obs.]

MEASLES
Mea"sles, n.; pl. in form, but used as singular in senses 1, 2, & 3.
Etym: [D. mazelen; akin to G. masern, pl., and E. mazer, and orig.
meaning, little spots. See Mazer.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A contagious febrile disorder commencing with catarrhal
symptoms, and marked by the appearance on the third day of an
eruption of distinct red circular spots, which coalesce in a
crescentic form, are slightly raised above the surface, and after the
fourth day of the eruption gradually decline; rubeola.
Measles commences with the ordinary symptoms of fever. Am. Cyc.

2. (Veter. Med.)

Defn: A disease of cattle and swine in which the flesh is filled with
the embryos of different varieties of the tapeworm.

3. A disease of trees. [Obs.]

4. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larvæ of any tapeworm (Tænia) in the cysticerus stage, when
contained in meat. Called also bladder worms.

MEASLY
Mea"sly, a.

1. Infected with measles.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Containing larval tapeworms; -- said of pork and beef.

MEASURABLE
Meas"ur*a*ble, a. Etym: [F. mesurable, L. mensurabilis. See Measure,
and cf. Mensurable.]

1. Capable of being measured; susceptible of mensuration or
computation.

2. Moderate; temperate; not excessive.
Of his diet measurable was he. Chaucer.
-- Meas"ur*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Meas"ur*a*bly, adv.
Yet do it measurably, as it becometh Christians. Latimer.

MEASURE
Meas"ure, n. Etym: [OE. mesure, F. mesure, L. mensura, fr. metiri,
mensus, to measure; akin to metrum poetical measure, Gr. meter. Cf.
Immense, Mensuration, Mete to measure.]

1. A standard of dimension; a fixed unit of quantity or extent; an
extent or quantity in the fractions or multiples of which anything is
estimated and stated; hence, a rule by which anything is adjusted or
judged.

2. An instrument by means of which size or quantity is measured, as a
graduated line, rod, vessel, or the like.
False ells and measures be brought all clean adown. R. of Gloucester.

3. The dimensions or capacity of anything, reckoned according to some
standard; size or extent, determined and stated; estimated extent;
as, to take one's measure for a coat.
The measure thereof is longer than the earth, and broader than the
sea. Job xi. 9.

4. The contents of a vessel by which quantity is measured; a quantity
determined by a standard; a stated or limited quantity or amount.
It is like leaven which a woman took and hid in three measures of
meal. Luke xiii. 21.

5. Extent or degree not excessive or beyong bounds; moderation; due
restraint; esp. in the phrases, in measure; with measure; without or
beyond measure.
Hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth without measure. Is.
v. 14.

6. Determined extent, not to be exceeded; limit; allotted share, as
of action, influence, ability, or the like; due proportion.
Lord, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days. Ps.
xxxix. 4.

7. The quantity determined by measuring, especially in buying and
selling; as, to give good or full measure.

8. Undefined quantity; extent; degree.
There is a great measure of discretion to be used in the performance
of confession. Jer. Taylor.

9. Regulated division of movement:
(a) (Dancing) A regulated movement corresponding to the time in which
the accompanying music is performed; but, especially, a slow and
stately dane, like the minuet.
(b) (Mus.) (1) The group or grouping of beats, caused by the regular
recurrence of accented beats. (2)

Defn: The space between two bars. See Beat, Triple, Quadruple,
Sextuple, Compound time, under Compound, a., and Figure.
(c) (Poetry) The manner of ordering and combining the quantities, or
long and short syllables; meter; rhythm; hence, a foot; as, a poem in
iambic measure.

10. (Arith.)

Defn: A number which is contained in a given number a number of times
without a remainder; as in the phrases, the common measure, the
greatest common measure, etc., of two or more numbers.

11. A step or definite part of a progressive course or policy; a
means to an end; an act designed for the accomplishment of an object;
as, political measures; prudent measures; an inefficient measure.
His majesty found what wrong measures he had taken in the conferring
that trust, and lamented his error. Clarendon.

12. The act of measuring; measurement. Shak.

13. pl. (Geol.)

Defn: Beds or strata; as, coal measures; lead measures. Lineal, or
Long, measure, measure of length; the measure of lines or distances.
 -- Liquid measure, the measure of liquids.
 -- Square measure, the measure of superficial area of surfaces in
square units, as inches, feet, miles, etc.
 -- To have hard measure, to have harsh treatment meted out to one;
to be harshly or oppressively dealt with.
 -- To take measures, to make preparations; to provide means.
 -- To take one's measure, to measure one, as for a garment; hence,
to form an opinion of one's disposition, character, ability, etc.
 -- To tread a measure, to dance in the style so called. See 9 (a).
Say to her, we have measured many miles To tread a measure with her
on this grass. Shak.

MEASURE
Meas"ure, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Measured; p. pr. & vb. n. Measuring.]
Etym: [F. mesurer, L. mensurare. See Measure, n.]

1. To ascertain by use of a measuring instrument; to compute or
ascertain the extent, quantity, dimensions, or capacity of, by a
certain rule or standard; to take the dimensions of; hence, to
estimate; to judge of; to value; to appraise.
Great are thy works, Jehovah, infinite Thy power! what thought can
measure thee Milton.

2. To serve as the measure of; as, the thermometer measures changes
of temperature.

3. To pass throught or over in journeying, as if laying off and
determining the distance.
A true devoted pilgrim is not weary To measure kingdoms with his
feeble steps. Shak.

4. To adjust by a rule or standard.
To secure a contented spirit, measure your desires by your fortunes,
not your fortunes by your desires. Jer. Taylor.

5. To allot or distribute by measure; to set off or apart by measure;
-- often with out or off.
With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again. Matt.
vii. 2.
That portion of eternity which is called time, measured out by the
sun. Addison.
To measure swords with one, to try another's skill in the use of the
sword; hence, figuratively, to match one's abilities against an
antagonist's.

MEASURE
Meas"ure, v. i.

1. To make a measurement or measurements.

2. To result, or turn out, on measuring; as, the grain measures well;
the pieces measure unequally.

3. To be of a certain size or quantity, or to have a certain length,
breadth, or thickness, or a certain capacity according to a standard
measure; as, cloth measures three fourths of a yard; a tree measures
three feet in diameter.

MEASURED
Meas"ured, a.

Defn: Regulated or determined by a standard; hence, equal; uniform;
graduated; limited; moderated; as, he walked with measured steps; he
expressed himself in no measured terms.
 -- Meas"ured*ly, adv.

MEASURELESS
Meas"ure*less, a.

Defn: Without measure; unlimited; immeasurable.
 -- Meas"ure*less*ness, n.

Syn.
 -- Boundless; limitless; endless; unbounded; unlimited; vast;
immense; infinite; immeasurable. Where Alf, the sacred river ran,
Through canyons measureless to man, Down to a hidden sea. Coleridge

MEASUREMENT
Meas"ure*ment, n.

1. The act or result of measuring; mensuration; as, measurement is
required.

2. The extent, size, capacity, amount. or quantity ascertained by
measuring; as, its measurement is five acres.

MEASURER
Meas"ur*er, n.

Defn: One who measures; one whose occupation or duty is to measure
commondities in market.

MEASURING
Meas"ur*ing, a.

Defn: Used in, or adapted for, ascertaining measurements, or dividing
by measure. Measuring faucet, a faucet which permits only a given
quantity of liquid to pass each time it is opened, or one by means of
which the liquid which passes can be measured.
 -- Measuring worm (Zoöl.), the larva of any geometrid moth. See
Geometrid.

MEAT
Meat, n. Etym: [OE. mete, AS. mete; akin to OS. mat, meti, D. met
hashed meat, G. mettwurst sausage, OHG. maz food, Icel. matr, Sw.
mat, Dan. mad, Goth. mats. Cf. Mast fruit, Mush.]

1. Food, in general; anything eaten for nourishment, either by man or
beast. Hence, the edible part of anything; as, the meat of a lobster,
a nut, or an egg. Chaucer.
And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, . . .
to you it shall be for meat. Gen. i. 29.
Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you. Gen. ix. 3.

2. The flesh of animals used as food; esp., animal muscle; as, a
breakfast of bread and fruit without meat.

3. Specifically, dinner; the chief meal. [Obs.] Chaucer. Meat
biscuit. See under Biscuit.
 -- Meat earth (Mining), vegetable mold. Raymond.
 -- Meat fly. (Zoöl.) See Flesh fly, under Flesh.
 -- Meat offering (Script.), an offering of food, esp. of a cake made
of flour with salt and oil.
 -- To go to meat, to go to a meal. [Obs.] -- To sit at meat, to sit
at the table in taking food.

MEAT
Meat, v. t.

Defn: To supply with food. [Obs.] Tusser.
His shield well lined, his horses meated well. Chapman.

MEATAL
Me*a"tal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a meatus; resembling a meatus. Owen.

MEATED
Meat"ed, a.

1. Fed; fattened. [Obs.] Tusser.

2. Having (such) meat; -- used chiefly in composition; as, thick-
meated.

MEATH; MEATHE
Meath, Meathe, n. Etym: [See Mead.]

Defn: A sweet liquor; mead. [Obs.] Chaucer. Milton.

MEATINESS
Meat"i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being meaty.

MEATLESS
Meat"less, a.

Defn: Having no meat; without food.
"Leave these beggars meatless." Sir T. More.

MEATOSCOPE
Me*at"o*scope, n. Etym: [Meatus + -scope.] (Med.)

Defn: A speculum for examining a natural passage, as the urethra.

MEATOTOME
Me*at"o*tome, n. Etym: [Meatus + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for cutting into the urethra so as to enlarge its
orifice.

MEATUS
Me*a"tus, n. sing. & pl.; E. pl. Meatuses (. Etym: [L., a going,
passage, fr. meare to go.] (Anat.)

Defn: A natural passage or canal; as, the external auditory meatus.
See Illust. of Ear.

MEATY
Meat"y, a.

Defn: Abounding in meat.

MEAW
Meaw, n.

Defn: The sea mew. [Obs.] Spenser.

MEAW
Meaw, v. i.

Defn: See Mew, to cry as a cat.

MEAWL
Meawl, v. i.

Defn: See Mewl, and Miaul.

MEAZEL
Mea"zel, n.

Defn: See 1st Measle. [Obs.]

MEAZLING
Meaz"ling, a.

Defn: Falling in small drops; mistling; mizzing. [Obs.] Arbuthnot.

MEBLES
Me"bles, n. pl.

Defn: See Moebles. [Obs.]

MECATE
Me*ca"te, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A rope of hair or of maguey fiber, for tying horses, etc.
[Southwestern U. S.]

MECCAWEE
Mec`ca*wee", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Mecca, in Arabia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Mecca.

MECHANIC
Me*chan"ic, n. Etym: [F. mécanique mechanics. See Mechanic, a.]

1. The art of the application of the laws of motion or force to
construction. [Obs.]

2. A mechanician; an artisan; an artificer; one who practices any
mechanic art; one skilled or employed in shaping and uniting
materials, as wood, metal, etc., into any kind of structure, machine,
or other object, requiring the use of tools, or instruments.
An art quite lost with our mechanics. Sir T. Browne.

MECHANIC
Me*chan"ic, a. Etym: [F. mécanique, L. mechanicus, Gr. Machine.]

1. Having to do woth the application of the laws of motion in the art
of constructing or making things; of or pertaining to mechanics;
mechanical; as, the mechanic arts. "These mechanic philosophers."
Ray.
Mechanic slaves, With greasy aprons, rules, and hammers. Shak.

2. Of or pertaining to a mechanic or artificer, or to the class of
artisans; hence, rude; common; vulgar.
To make a god, a hero, or a king Descend to a mechanic dialect.
Roscommon.
Sometimes he ply'd the strong, mechanic tool. Thomson.

3. Base. [Obs.] Whitlock.

MECHANICAL
Me*chan"ic*al, a. Etym: [From Mechanic, a.]

1. Pertaining to, governed by, or in accordance with, mechanics, or
the laws of motion; pertaining to the quantitative relations of force
and matter, as distinguished from mental, vital, chemical, etc.; as,
mechanical principles; a mechanical theory; mechanical deposits.

2. Of or pertaining to a machine or to machinery or tools; made or
formed by a machine or with tools; as, mechanical precision;
mechanical products.
We have also divers mechanical arts. Bacon.

3. Done as if by a machine; uninfluenced by will or emotion;
proceeding automatically, or by habit, without special intention or
reflection; as, mechanical singing; mechanical verses; mechanical
service.

4. Made and operated by interaction of forces without a directing
intelligence; as, a mechanical universe.

5. Obtained by trial, by measurements, etc.; approximate; empirical.
See the 2d Note under Geometric. Mechanical effect, effective power;
useful work exerted, as by a machine, in a definite time.
 -- Mechanical engineering. See the Note under Engineering.
 -- Mechanical maneuvers (Mil.), the application of mechanical
appliances to the mounting, dismounting, and moving of artillery.
Farrow.
 -- Mechanical philosophy, the principles of mechanics applied to the
inverstigation of physical phenomena.
 -- Mechanical powers, certain simple instruments, such as the lever
and its modifications (the wheel and axle and the pulley), the
inclined plane with its modifications (the screw and the wedge),
which convert a small force acting throught a great space into a
great force acting through a small space, or vice versa, and are used
separately or in combination.
 -- Mechanical solution (Math.), a solution of a problem by any art
or contrivance not strictly geometrical, as by means of the ruler and
compasses, or other instruments.

MECHANICAL
Me*chan"ic*al, n.

Defn: A mechanic. [Obs.] Shak.

MECHANICALIZE
Me*chan"ic*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To cause to become mechanical.

MECHANICALLY
Me*chan"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mechanical manner.

MECHANICALNESS
Me*chan"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being mechanical.

MECHANICIAN
Mech`a*ni"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mécanicien. See Mechanic.]

Defn: One skilled in the theory or construction of machines; a
machinist. Boyle.

MECHANICO-CHEMICAL
Me*chan`i*co-chem"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, connected with, or dependent upon, both
mechanics and chemistry; -- said especially of those sciences which
treat of such phenomena as seem to depend on the laws both of
mechanics and chemistry, as electricity and magnetism.

MECHANICS
Me*chan"ics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mécanique.]

Defn: That science, or branch of applied mathematics, which treats of
the action of forces on bodies.

Note: That part of mechanics which considers the action of forces in
producing rest or equilibrium is called statics; that which relates
to such action in producing motion is called dynamics. The term
mechanics includes the action of forces on all bodies, whether solid,
liquid, or gaseous. It is sometimes, however, and formerly was often,
used distinctively of solid bodies only: The mechanics of liquid
bodies is called also hydrostatics, or hydrodynamics, according as
the laws of rest or of motion are considered. The mechanics of
gaseous bodies is called also pneumatics. The mechanics of fluids in
motion, with special reference to the methods of obtaining from them
useful results, constitutes hydraulics. Animal mechanics (Physiol.),
that portion of physiology which has for its object the investigation
of the laws of equilibrium and motion in the animal body. The most
important mechanical principle is that of the lever, the bones
forming the arms of the levers, the contractile muscles the power,
the joints the fulcra or points of support, while the weight of the
body or of the individual limbs constitutes the weight or resistance.
 -- Applied mechanics, the principles of abstract mechanics applied
to human art; also, the practical application of the laws of matter
and motion to the construction of machines and structures of all
kinds.

MECHANISM
Mech"an*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mécanisme, L. mechanisma. See
Mechanic.]

1. The arrangement or relation of the parts of a machine; the parts
of a machine, taken collectively; the arrangement or relation of the
parts of anything as adapted to produce an effect; as, the mechanism
of a watch; the mechanism of a sewing machine; the mechanism of a
seed pod.

2. Mechanical operation or action.
He acknowledges nothing besides matter and motion; so that all must
be performed either by mechanism or accident. Bentley.

3. (Kinematics)

Defn: An ideal machine; a combination of movable bodies constituting
a machine, but considered only with regard to relative movements.

MECHANIST
Mech"an*ist, n.

1. A maker of machines; one skilled in mechanics.

2. One who regards the phenomena of nature as the effects of forces
merely mechanical.

MECHANIZE
Mech"an*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mechanized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mechanizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. méchaniser.]

Defn: To cause to be mechanical. Shelley.

MECHANOGRAPH
Mech"an*o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: One of a number of copies of anything multiplied mechanically.

MECHANOGRAPHIC
Mech`an*o*graph`ic, a.

1. Treating of mechanics. [R.]

2. Written, copied, or recorded by machinery; produced by
mechanography; as, a mechanographic record of changes of temperature;
mechanographic prints.

MECHANOGRAPHIST
Mech`an*og"ra*phist, n.

Defn: An artist who, by mechanical means, multiplies copies of works
of art.

MECHANOGRAPHY
Mech`an*og"ra*phy, n.

Defn: The art of mechanically multiplying copies of a writing, or any
work of art.

MECHANURGY
Mech"an*ur`gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: That branch of science which treats of moving machines.

MECHITARIST
Mech"i*tar*ist, n. Etym: [From Mechitar, an Armenian., who founded
the congregation in the early part of the eighteenth century.] (Eccl.
Hist.)

Defn: One of a religious congregation of the Roman Catholic Church
devoted to the improvement of Armenians.

MECHLIN
Mech"lin, n.

Defn: A kind of lace made at, or originating in, Mechlin, in Belgium.

MECHOACAN
Me*cho"a*can, n.

Defn: A species of jalap, of very feeble properties, said to be
obtained from the root of a species of Convolvulus (C. Mechoacan); --
so called from Michoacan, in Mexico, whence it is obtained.

MECKELIAN
Meck*e"li*an, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or discovered by, J. F. Meckel, a German
anatomist. Meckelian cartilage, the cartilaginous rod which forms the
axis of the mandible; -- called also Meckel's cartilage.

MECONATE
Mec"o*nate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. méconate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of meconic acid.

MECONIC
Me*con"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. méconique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the poppy or opium; specif.
(Chem.), designating an acid related to aconitic acid, found in opium
and extracted as a white crystalline substance.

MECONIDINE
Me*con"i*dine, n. (Chem)

Defn: An alkaloid found in opium, and extracted as a yellow amorphous
substance which is easily decomposed.

MECONIDIUM
Mec`o*nid"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of gonophore produced by hydroids of the genus
Gonothyræa. It has tentacles, and otherwise resembles a free medusa,
but remains attached by a pedicel.

MECONIN
Mec"o*nin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. méconine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance regarded as an anhydride of meconinic acid,
existing in opium and extracted as a white crystalline substance.
Also erroneously called meconina, meconia, etc., as though it were an
alkaloid.

MECONINIC
Mec`o*nin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid which occurs in opium,
and which may be obtained by oxidizing narcotine.

MECONIUM
Me*co"ni*um, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)
(a) Opium. [Obs.]
(b) The contents of the fetal intestine; hence, first excrement.

MEDAL
Med"al, n. Etym: [F. médaille, It. medaglia, fr. L. metallum metal,
through (assumed) LL. metalleus made of metal. See Metal, and cf.
Mail a piece of money.]

Defn: A piece of metal in the form of a coin, struck with a device,
and intended to preserve the remembrance of a notable event or an
illustrious person, or to serve as a reward.

MEDAL
Med"al, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Medaled, or Medalled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Medaling or Medalling.]

Defn: To honor or reward with a medal. "Medaled by the king."
Thackeray.

MEDALET
Med"al*et, n.

Defn: A small medal.

MEDALIST
Med"al*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. médailliste, It. medaglista.] [Written
also medallist.]

1. A person that is skilled or curious in medals; a collector of
medals. Addison.

2. A designer of medals. Macaulay.

3. One who has gained a medal as the reward of merit.

MEDALLIC
Me*dal"lic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a medal, or to medals. "Our medallic
history." Walpole.

MEDALLION
Me*dal"lion, n. Etym: [F. médaillion, It. medaglione, augm. of
medaglia. See Medal.]

1. A large medal or memorial coin.

2. A circular or oval (or, sometimes, square) tablet bearing a figure
or figures represented in relief.

MEDAL PLAY
Med"al play`. (Golf)

Defn: Play in which the score is reckoned by counting the number of
strokes.

MEDALURGY
Med"al*ur`gy, n. Etym: [Medal + the root of Gr.

Defn: The art of making and striking medals and coins. [Written also
medallurgy.]

MEDDLE
Med"dle`, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Meddled; p. pr. & vb. n. Meddling.]
Etym: [OE. medlen to mix, OF. medler, mesler, F. mêler, LL.
misculare, a dim. fr. L. miscere to mix. Mix, and cf. Medley,
Mellay.]

1. To mix; to mingle. [Obs.]
More to know Did never meddle with my thoughts. Shak.

2. To interest or engage one's self; to have to do; -- [Obs.] Barrow.
Study to be quiet, and to meddle with your own business. Tyndale.

3. To interest or engage one's self unnecessarily or impertinently,
to interfere or busy one's self improperly with another's affairs;
specifically, to handle or distrub another's property without
permission; -- often followed by with or in.
Why shouldst thou meddle to thy hurt 2 Kings xiv. 10.
The civil lawyers . . . have meddled in a matter that belongs not to
them. Locke.
To meddle and make, to intrude one's self into another person's
concerns. [Archaic] Shak.

Syn.
 -- To interpose; interfere; intermeddle.

MEDDLE
Med"dle, v. t.

Defn: To mix; to mingle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
"Wine meddled with gall." Wyclif (Matt. xxvii. 34).

MEDDLER
Med"dler, n.

Defn: One who meddles; one who interferes or busies himself with
things in which he has no concern; an officious person; a busybody.

MEDDLESOME
Med"dle*some, a.

Defn: Given to meddling; apt to interpose in the affairs of others;
officiously intrusive.
 -- Med"dle*some*ness, n.

MEDDLING
Med"dling, a.

Defn: Meddlesome. Macaulay.

MEDDLINGLY
Med"dling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a meddling manner.

MEDE
Mede, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Media in Asia.

MEDE
Mede, n.

Defn: See lst & 2d Mead, and Meed. [Obs.]

MEDIA
Me"di*a, n.,

Defn: pl. of Medium.

MEDIA
Me"di*a, n.; pl. Mediæ (-e). Etym: [NL., fr. L. medius middle.]
(Phonetics)

Defn: One of the sonant mutes b, d, g (b, d, g), in Greek, or of
their equivalents in other languages, so named as intermediate
between the tenues, p, t, k (p, t, k), and the aspiratæ (aspirates)
f, th, x (ph or f, th, ch). Also called middle mute, or medial, and
sometimes soft mute.

MEDIACY
Me"di*a*cy, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being mediate. Sir W. Hamilton.

MEDIAEVAL
Me`di*æ"val, a. Etym: [L. medius middle + aevum age. See Middle, and
Age.]

Defn: Of or relating to the Middle Ages; as, mediæval architecture.
[Written also medieval.]

MEDIAEVALISM
Me`di*æ"val*ism, n.

Defn: The method or spirit of the Middle Ages; devotion to the
institutions and practices of the Middle Ages; a survival from the
Middle Ages. [Written also medievalism.]

MEDIAEVALIST
Me`di*æ"val*ist, n.

Defn: One who has a taste for, or is versed in, the history of the
Middle Ages; one in sympathy with the spirit or forms of the Middle
Ages. [Written also medievalist.]

MEDIAEVALLY
Me`di*æ"val*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of the Middle Ages; in accordance with
mediævalism.

MEDIAEVALS
Me`di*æ"vals, n. pl.

Defn: The people who lived in the Middle Ages. Ruskin.

MEDIAL
Me"di*al, a. Etym: [L. medialis, fr. medius middle: cf. F. médial.
See Middle.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a mean or average; mean; as, medial
alligation.

MEDIAL
Me"di*al, n. (Phonetics)

Defn: See 2d Media.

MEDIALUNA
Me"di*a*lu"na, n. Etym: [Sp. media luna half-moon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Half-moon.

MEDIAN
Me"di*an, a. Etym: [L. medianus, fr. medius middle. See Medial.]

1. Being in the middle; running through the middle; as, a median
groove.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Situated in the middle; lying in a plane dividing a bilateral
animal into right and left halves; -- said of unpaired organs and
parts; as, median coverts. Median line. (a) (Anat.) Any line in the
mesial plane; specif., either of the lines in which the mesial plane
meets the surface of the body. (b) (Geom.) The line drawn from an
angle of a triangle to the middle of the opposite side; any line
having the nature of a diameter.
 -- Median plane (Anat.), the mesial plane.
 -- Median point (Geom.), the point where the three median lines of a
triangle mutually intersect.

MEDIAN
Me"di*an, n. (Geom.)

Defn: A median line or point.

MEDIANT
Me"di*ant, n. Etym: [L. medians, p. p. of mediare to halve: cf. It.
mediante, F. médiante.] (Mus.)

Defn: The third above the keynote; -- so called because it divides
the interval between the tonic and dominant into two thirds.

MEDIASTINAL
Me`di*as*ti"nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a mediastinum.

MEDIASTINE; MEDIASTINUM
Me`di*as"tine, Me`di*as*ti"num, n. Etym: [NL. mediastinum, fr. L.
medius middle; cf. mediastinus helper, a menial servant, LL.
mediastinus equiv. to medius: cf F. médiastin.] (Anat.)

Defn: A partition; a septum; specifically, the folds of the pleura
(and the space included between them) which divide the thorax into a
right and left cavity. The space included between these folds of the
pleura, called the mediastinal space, contains the heart and gives
passage to the esophagus and great blood vessels.

MEDIATE
Me"di*ate, a. Etym: [L. mediatus, p. p. of mediare, v. t., to halve,
v. i., to be in the middle. See Mid, and cf. Moiety.]

1. Being between the two extremes; middle; interposed; intervening;
intermediate. Prior.

2. Acting by means, or by an intervening cause or instrument; not
direct or immediate; acting or suffering through an intervening agent
or condition.

3. Gained or effected by a medium or condition. Bacon.
An act of mediate knowledge is complex. Sir W. Hamilton.

MEDIATE
Me"di*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mediated; p. pr. & vb. n. Mediating.]
Etym: [LL. mediatus, p. p. of mediare to mediate. See Mediate, a.]

1. To be in the middle, or between two; to intervene. [R.]

2. To interpose between parties, as the equal friend of each, esp.
for the purpose of effecting a reconciliation or agreement; as, to
mediate between nations.

MEDIATE
Me"di*ate, v. t.

1. To effect by mediation or interposition; to bring about as a
mediator, instrument, or means; as, to mediate a peace.

2. To divide into two equal parts. [R.] Holder.

MEDIATELY
Me"di*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mediate manner; by a secondary cause or agent; not
directly or primarily; by means; -- opposed to immediately.
God worketh all things amongst us mediately. Sir W. Raleigh.
The king grants a manor to A, and A grants a portion of it to B. In
this case. B holds his lands immediately of A, but mediately of the
king. Blakstone.

MEDIATENESS
Me"di*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being mediate.

MEDIATION
Me`di*a"tion, n. Etym: [OE. mediacioun, F. médiation. See Mediate,
a.]

1. The act of mediating; action or relation of anything interposed;
action as a necessary condition, means, or instrument; interposition;
intervention.
The soul [acts] by the mediation of these passions. South.

2. Hence, specifically, agency between parties at variance, with a
view to reconcile them; entreaty for another; intercession. Bacon.

MEDIATIVE
Me"di*a*tive, a.

Defn: Pertaining to mediation; used in mediation; as, mediative
efforts. Beaconsfield.

MEDIATIZATION
Me`di*at`i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. médiatisation.]

Defn: The act of mediatizing.

MEDIATIZE
Me"di*a*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mediatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mediatizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. médiatiser.]

Defn: To cause to act through an agent or to hold a subordinate
position; to annex; -- specifically applied to the annexation during
the former German empire of a smaller German state to a larger, while
allowing it a nominal sovereignty, and its prince his rank.
The misfortune of being a mediatized prince. Beaconsfield.

MEDIATOR
Me"di*a`tor, n. Etym: [L. mediator: cf. E. médiateur.]

Defn: One who mediates; especially, one who interposes between
parties at variance for the purpose of reconciling them; hence, an
intercessor.
For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man
Christ Jesus. 1 Tim. ii. 5.

MEDIATORIAL
Me`di*a*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a mediator, or to mediation; mediatory; as,
a mediatorial office.
 -- Me`di*a*to"ri*al*ly, adv.
My measures were . . . healing and mediatorial. Burke.

MEDIATORSHIP
Me"di*a`tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office or character of a mediator.

MEDIATORY
Me"di*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Mediatorial.

MEDIATRESS; MEDIATRIX
Me`di*a"tress, Me`di*a*"trix, n. Etym: [L. mediatrix, f. of mediator:
cf. F. médiatrice.]

Defn: A female mediator.

MEDIC
Med"ic, n. Etym: [L. medica, Gr. Media, from (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous plant of the genus Medicago. The black medic is
the Medicago lupulina; the purple medic, or lucern, is M. sativa.

MEDIC
Med"ic, a. Etym: [L. medicus.]

Defn: Medical. [R.]

MEDICABLE
Med"i*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. medicabilis, from medicare, medicari, to
heal, fr. medicus physician. See Medical.]

Defn: Capable of being medicated; admitting of being cured or healed.

MEDICAL
Med"ic*al, a. Etym: [LL. medicalis, L. medicus belonging to healing,
fr. mederi to heal; cf. Zend madha medical science, wisdom, gr. mind:
cf. F. médical.]

1. Of, pertaining to, or having to do with, the art of healing
disease, or the science of medicine; as, the medical profession;
medical services; a medical dictionary; medical jurisprudence.

2. Containing medicine; used in medicine; medicinal; as, the medical
properties of a plant.

MEDICALLY
Med"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a medical manner; with reference to healing, or to the
principles of the healing art.

MEDICAMENT
Med"i*ca*ment, n. Etym: [L. medicamentum, fr. medicare, medicari, to
heal: cf. F. médicament. See Medicable.]

Defn: Anything used for healing diseases or wounds; a medicine; a
healing application.

MEDICAMENTAL
Med`ica*men"tal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to medicaments or healing applications; having
the qualities of medicaments.
 -- Med`ica*men"tal*ly, adv.

MEDICASTER
Med"i*cas`ter, n. Etym: [Cf. F. médicastre. See Medical.]

Defn: A quack. [R.] Whitlock.

MEDICATE
Med"i*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Medicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Medicating.] Etym: [L. medicatus, p. p. of medicare, medicari. See
Medicable.]

1. To tincture or impregnate with anything medicinal; to drug.
"Medicated waters." Arbuthnot.

2. To treat with medicine.

MEDICATION
Med`i*ca"tion, Etym: [L. medicatio: cf. F. médication.]

Defn: The act or process of medicating.

MEDICATIVE
Med"i*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Medicinal; acting like a medicine.

MEDICEAN
Med`i*ce"an, a.

Defn: Of or relating to the Medici, a noted Italian family; as, the
Medicean Venus. Medicean planets (Astron.), a name given by Galileo
to the satellites of Jupiter.

MEDICINABLE
Me*dic"i*na*ble, a.

Defn: Medicinal; having the power of healing. [Obs.] Shak.

MEDICINAL
Me*dic"i*nal, a. Etym: [L. medicinalis: cf. F. médicinal. See
Medicine.]

1. Having curative or palliative properties; used for the cure or
alleviation of bodily disorders; as, medicinal tinctures, plants, or
springs.
Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees Their medicinal gum. Shak.

2. Of or pertaining to medicine; medical.

MEDICINALLY
Me*dic"i*nal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a medicinal manner.

MEDICINE
Med"i*cine, n. Etym: [L. medicina (sc. ars), fr. medicinus medical,
fr. medicus: cf. F. médecine. See Medical.]

1. The science which relates to the prevention, cure, or alleviation
of disease.

2. Any substance administered in the treatment of disease; a remedial
agent; a remedy; physic.
By medicine, life may be prolonged. Shak.

3. A philter or love potion. [Obs.] Shak.

4. Etym: [F. médecin.]

Defn: A physician. [Obs.] Shak. Medicine bag, a charm; -- so called
among the North American Indians, or in works relating to them.
 -- Medicine man (among the North American Indians), a person who
professes to cure sickness, drive away evil spirits, and regulate the
weather by the arts of magic.
 -- Medicine seal, a small gem or paste engraved with reversed
characters, to serve as a seal. Such seals were used by Roman
physicians to stamp the names of their medicines.

MEDICINE
Med"i*cine, v. t.

Defn: To give medicine to; to affect as a medicine does; to remedy;
to cure. "Medicine thee to that sweet sleep." Shak.

MEDICO-LEGAL
Med`i*co-le"gal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to law as affected by medical facts.

MEDICOMMISSURE
Med`i*com"mis*sure, n. Etym: [L. medius middle + E. commissure.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A large transverse commissure in the third ventricle of the
brain; the middle or soft commissure. B. G. Wildex.

MEDICORNU
Med`i*cor"nu, n.; pl. Medicornua. Etym: [NL., fr. L. medius middle +
cornu horn.] (Anat.)

Defn: The middle or inferior horn of each lateral ventricle of the
brain. B. G. Wilder.

MEDICS
Med"ics, n.

Defn: Science of medicine. [Obs.]

MEDIETY
Me*di"e*ty, n. Etym: [L. medietas.]

Defn: The middle part; half; moiety. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

MEDIEVAL; MEDIEVALISM; MEDIEVALIST
Me`di*e"val, Me`di*e"val*ism, Me`di*e"val*ist.

Defn: Same as Medi, Medi, etc.

MEDINA EPOCH
Me*di"na ep"och. Etym: [From Medina in New York.] (Geol.)

Defn: A subdivision of the Niagara period in the American upper
Silurian, characterized by the formations known as the Oneida
conglomerate, and the Medina sandstone. See the Chart of Geology.

MEDINO
Me*di"no, n.

Defn: Same as Para.

MEDIOCRAL
Me"di*o`cral, a.

Defn: Mediocre. [R.]

MEDIOCRE
Me"di*o`cre, a. Etym: [F. médiocre, L. mediocris, fr. medius middle.
See Mid.]

Defn: Of a middle quality; of but a moderate or low degree of
excellence; indifferent; ordinary. " A very mediocre poet." Pope.

MEDIOCRE
Me"di*o`cre, n.

1. A mediocre person. [R.]

2. A young monk who was excused from performing a portion of a monk's
duties. Shipley.

MEDIOCRIST
Me"di*o`crist, n.

Defn: A mediocre person. [R.]

MEDIOCRITY
Me`di*oc"ri*ty, n. Etym: [F. médiocrité, L. mediocritas.]

1. The quality of being mediocre; a middle state or degree; a
moderate degree or rate. "A mediocrity of success." Bacon.

2. Moderation; temperance. [Obs.] Hooker.

MEDIOSTAPEDIAL
Me`di*o*sta*pe"di*al, a. Etym: [L. medius middle + E. stapedial.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to that part of the columella of the ear which, in
some animals, connects the stapes with the other parts of the
columella.
 -- n.

Defn: The mediostapedial part of the columella.

MEDIOXUMOUS
Me`di*ox"u*mous, a. Etym: [L. medioxumus middlemost.]

Defn: Intermediate. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

MEDITANCE
Med"i*tance, n.

Defn: Meditation. [Obs.]

MEDITATE
Med"i*tate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Meditated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Meditating.] Etym: [L. meditatus, p. p. of meditari to meditate; cf.
Gr. mind.]

Defn: To keep the mind in a state of contemplation; to dwell on
anything in thought; to think seriously; to muse; to cogitate; to
reflect. Jer. Taylor.
In his law doth he meditate day and night. Ps. i. 2.

MEDITATE
Med"i*tate, v. t.

1. To contemplate; to keep the mind fixed upon; to study. "Blessed is
the man that doth meditate good things." Ecclus. xiv. 20.

2. To purpose; to intend; to design; to plan by revolving in the
mind; as, to meditate a war.
I meditate to pass the remainder of life in a state of undisturbed
repose. Washington.

Syn.
 -- To consider; ponder; weigh; revolve; study.
 -- To Meditate, Contemplate, Intend. We meditate a design when we
are looking out or waiting for the means of its accomplishment; we
contemplate it when the means are at hand, and our decision is nearly
or quite made. To intend is stronger, implying that we have decided
to act when an opportunity may offer. A general meditates an attack
upon the enemy; he contemplates or intends undertaking it at the
earliest convenient season.

MEDITATION
Med`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [OE. meditacioun, F. méditation, fr. L.
meditatio.]

1. The act of meditating; close or continued thought; the turning or
revolving of a subject in the mind; serious contemplation;
reflection; musing.
Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be
acceptable in thy sight. Ps. xix. 14.

2. Thought; -- without regard to kind. [Obs.]
With wings as swift As meditation or the thoughts of love. Shak.

MEDITATIST
Med"i*ta`tist, n.

Defn: One who is given to meditation.

MEDITATIVE
Med"i*ta*tive, a. Etym: [L. meditativus: cf. F. méditatif.]

Defn: Disposed to meditate, or to meditation; as, a meditative man; a
meditative mood.
 -- Med"i*ta*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Med"i*ta*tive*ness, n.

MEDITERRANEAN
Med`i*ter*ra"ne*an, a. Etym: [L. mediterraneus; medius middle + terra
land. See Mid, and Terrace.]

1. Inclosed, or nearly inclosed, with land; as, the Mediterranean
Sea, between Europe and Africa.

2. Inland; remote from the ocean. [Obs.]
Cities, as well mediterranean as maritime. Holland.

3. Of or pertaining to the Mediterranean Sea; as, Mediterranean
trade; a Mediterranean voyage.

MEDITERRANEAN FRUIT FLY
Mediterranean fruit fly.

Defn: A two-winged fly (Ceratitis capitata) with black and white
markings, native of the Mediterranean countries, but now widely
distributed. Its larva lives in ripening oranges, peaches, and other
fruits, causing them to decay and fall.

MEDITERRANEOUS
Med`i*ter*ra"ne*ous, a.

Defn: Inland. Sir T. Browne.

MEDIUM
Me"di*um, n.; pl. L. Media, E. Mediums. Etym: [L. medium the middle,
fr. medius middle. See Mid, and cf. Medius.]

1. That which lies in the middle, or between other things;
intervening body or quantity. Hence, specifically: (a) Middle place
or degree; mean.
The just medium . . . lies between pride and abjection. L'Estrange.
(b) (Math.)

Defn: See Mean.
(c) (Logic) The mean or middle term of a syllogism; that by which the
extremes are brought into connection.

2. A substance through which an effect is transmitted from one thing
to another; as, air is the common medium of sound. Hence: The
condition upon which any event or action occurs; necessary means of
motion or action; that through or by which anything is accomplished,
conveyed, or carried on; specifically, in animal magnetism,
spiritualism, etc., a person through whom the action of another being
is said to be manifested and transmitted.
Whether any other liquors, being made mediums, cause a diversity of
sound from water, it may be tried. Bacon.
I must bring together All these extremes; and must remove all
mediums. Denham.

3. An average. [R.]
A medium of six years of war, and six years of peace. Burke.

4. A trade name for printing and writing paper of certain sizes. See
Paper.

5. (Paint.)

Defn: The liquid vehicle with which dry colors are ground and
prepared for application. Circulating medium, a current medium of
exchange, whether coin, bank notes, or government notes.
 -- Ethereal medium (Physics), the ether.
 -- Medium of exchange, that which is used for effecting an exchange
of commodities -- money or current representatives of money.

MEDIUM
Me"di*um, a.

Defn: Having a middle position or degree; mean; intermediate; medial;
as, a horse of medium size; a decoction of medium strength.

MEDIUM-SIZED
Me"di*um-sized`, a.

Defn: Having a medium size; as, a medium-sized man.

MEDIUS
Me"di*us, n.; pl. Medii. Etym: [NL., fr. L. medius middle. See
Medium.] (Anat.)

Defn: The third or middle finger; the third digit, or that which
corresponds to it.

MEDJIDIE; MEDJIDIEH
Me*dji"di*e, Me*dji"di*eh, n. [Turk. majidieh (prop. fem. a., fr. Ar.
mejid glorious); -- so called after the sultan Abdul Mejid, lit.,
"servant of the Glorious One," i.e., of God.]

1.
 (a) A silver coin of Turkey formerly rated at twenty, but since 1880
at nineteen, piasters (about 83 cents).
 (b) A gold coin of Turkey equal to one hundred piastres ($4.396 or
18s. ¾d.); a lira, or Turkish pound.

2.  A Turkish honorary order established in 1851 by Abdul-Mejid,
having as its badge a medallion surrounded by seven silver rays and
crescents. It is often conferred on foreigners.

MEDLAR
Med"lar, n. Etym: [OE. medler medlar tree, OF. meslier, F. néflier,
L. mespilum, mespilus, Gr. Naseberry.]

Defn: A tree of the genus Mespilus (M. Germanica); also, the fruit of
the tree. The fruit is something like a small apple, but has a bony
endocarp. When first gathered the flesh is hard and austere, and it
is not eaten until it has begun to decay. Japan medlar (Bot.), the
loquat. See Loquat.
 -- Neapolitan medlar (Bot.), a kind of thorn tree (Cratægus
Azarolus); also, its fruit.

MEDLE
Med"le, v. t. Etym: [See Meddle.]

Defn: To mix; to mingle; to meddle. [Written also medly.] [Obs.]
Chaucer.

MEDLEY
Med"ley, n.; pl. Medleys. Etym: [OE. medlee, OF. meslée, medlée,
mellée, F. mêlée. See Meddle, and cf. MelÉe, Mellay.]

1. A mixture; a mingled and confused mass of ingredients, usually
inharmonious; a jumble; a hodgepodge; -- often used contemptuously.
This medley of philosophy and war. Addison.
Love is a medley of endearments, jars, Suspicions, reconcilements,
wars. W. Walsh.

2. The confusion of a hand to hand battle; a brisk, hand to hand
engagement; a mêlée. [Obs.] Holland.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A composition of passages detached from several different
compositions; a potpourri.

Note: Medley is usually applied to vocal, potpourri to instrumental,
compositions.

4. A cloth of mixed colors. Fuller.

MEDLEY
Med"ley, a.

1. Mixed; of mixed material or color. [Obs.] "A medlè coat." Chaucer.

2. Mingled; confused. Dryden.

MEDLY
Med"ly, v. t.

Defn: See Medle. Johnson.

MEDOC
Mé`doc", n. Etym: [Cf. Mayduke.]

Defn: A class of claret wines, including several varieties, from the
district of Médoc in the department of Gironde.

MEDREGAL
Med"re*gal, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Bonito, 3.

MEDRICK
Med"rick, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of gull or tern. [Prov.] Lowell.

MEDULLA
Me*dul"la, n. Etym: [L.]

1. Marrow; pith; hence, essence. [Obs.] Milton.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The marrow of bones; the deep or inner portion of an organ or
part; as, the medulla, or medullary substance, of the kidney;
specifically, the medula oblongata.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A soft tissue, occupying the center of the stem or branch of a
plant; pith. Medulla oblongata. Etym: [L., oblong medulla] (Anat.),
the posterior part of the brain connected with the spinal cord. It
includes all the hindbrain except the cerebellum and pons, and from
it a large part of the cranial nerves arise. It controls very largely
respiration, circulation, swallowing, and other functions, and is the
most vital part of the brain; -- called also bulb of the spinal cord.
See Brain.

MEDULLAR
Me*dul"lar, a.

Defn: See Medullary.

MEDULLARY
Med"ul*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. medullaris, fr. medulla marrow: cf. F.
médullaire.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, marrow or medulla.
(b) Pertaining to the medula oblongata.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Filled with spongy pith; pithy. Medullary groove (Anat.), a
groove, in the epiblast of the vertebrate blastoderm, the edges of
which unite, making a tube (the medullary canal) from which the brain
and spinal cord are developed.
 -- Medullary rays (Bot.), the rays of cellular tissue seen in a
transverse section of exogenous wood, which pass from the pith to the
bark.
 -- Medullary sheath (Anat.), the layer of white semifluid substance
(myelin), between the primitive sheath and axis cylinder of a
medullated nerve fiber.

MEDULLATED
Me*dul"la*ted, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Furnished with a medulla or marrow, or with a medullary sheath;
as, a medullated nerve fiber.

MEDULLIN
Me*dul"lin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. médulline.] (Bot. Chem.)

Defn: A variety of lignin or cellulose found in the medulla, or pith,
of certain plants. Cf. Lignin, and Cellulose.

MEDUSA
Me*du"sa, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The Gorgon; or one of the Gorgons whose hair was changed into
serpents, after which all who looked upon her were turned into stone.

2. [pl. Medusae (.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any free swimming acaleph; a jellyfish.

Note: The larger medusæ belong to the Discophora, and are sometimes
called covered-eyed medusæ; others, known as naked-eyed medusæ,
belong to the Hydroidea, and are usually developed by budding from
hidroids. See Discophora, Hydroidea, and Hydromedusa. Medusa bud
(Zoöl.), one of the buds of a hydroid, destined to develop into a
gonophore or medusa. See Athecata, and Gonotheca.
 -- Medusa's head. (a) (Zoöl.) An astrophyton. (b) (Astron.) A
cluster of stars in the constellation Perseus. It contains the bright
star Algol.

MEDUSIAN
Me*du"si*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A medusa.

MEDUSIFORM
Me*du"si*form, a. Etym: [Medusa + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling a medusa in shape or structure.

MEDUSOID
Me*du"soid, a. Etym: [Medusa + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like a medusa; having the fundamental structure of a medusa,
but without a locomotive disk; -- said of the sessile gonophores of
hydroids.
 -- n.

Defn: A sessile gonophore. See Illust. under Gonosome.

MEECH
Meech, v. i.

Defn: See Mich. [Obs. or Colloq.]

MEED
Meed, n. Etym: [OE. mede, AS. med, meord; akin to OS. m, OHG. miata,
mieta, G. miethe hire, Goth. mizdo reward, Bohem. & Russ. mzda, Gr.
mistho`s, Skr. midha. sq. root276.]

1. That which is bestowed or rendered in consideration of merit;
reward; recompense.
A rosy garland was the victor's meed. Spenser.

2. Merit or desert; worth.
My meed hath got me fame. Shak.

3. A gift; also, a bride. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MEED
Meed, v. t.

1. To reward; to repay. [Obs.] Waytt.

2. To deserve; to merit. [Obs.] Heywood.

MEEDFUL
Meed"ful, a.

Defn: Worthy of meed, reward, or recompense; meritorious. "Meedful
works." Wiclif.

MEEDFULLY
Meed"ful*ly, adv.

Defn: According to merit; suitably.

MEEK
Meek, a. [Compar. Meeker; superl. Meekest.] Etym: [OE. mek, meoc;
akin to Icel. mj mild, soft, Sw. mjuk, Dan. myg, D. muik, Goth. mukam

1. Mild of temper; not easily provoked or orritated; patient under
injuries; not vain, or haughty, or resentful; forbearing; submissive.
Not the man Moses was very meek. Num. xii. 3.

2. Evincing mildness of temper, or patience; characterized by
mildness or patience; as, a meek answer; a meek face. "Her meek
prayer." Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Gentle; mild; soft; yielding; pacific; unassuming; humble. See
Gentle.

MEEK; MEEKEN
Meek, Meek"en (-'n), v. t.

Defn: To make meek; to nurture in gentleness and humility. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

MEEKLY
Meek"ly, adv.

Defn: In a meek manner. Spenser.

MEEKNESS
Meek"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being meek.

MEER
Meer, a.

Defn: Simple; unmixed. See Mere, a. [Obs.]

MEER
Meer, n.

Defn: See Mere, a lake.

MEER
Meer, n.

Defn: A boundary. See Mere.

MEERKAT
Meer"kat, n. Etym: [D.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South African carnivore (Cynictis penicillata), allied to the
ichneumons.

MEERSCHAUM
Meer"schaum, n. Etym: [G., lit., sea foam; meer sea + schaum foam;
but it perh. is a corruption of the Tartaric name myrsen. Cf. Mere a
lake, and Scum.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A fine white claylike mineral, soft, and light enough when in
dry masses to float in water. It is a hydrous silicate of magnesia,
and is obtained chiefly in Asia Minor. It is manufacturd into tobacco
pipes, cigar holders, etc. Also called sepiolite.

2. A tobacco pipe made of this mineral.

MEET
Meet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Met; p. pr. & vb. n. Meeting.] Etym: [OE.
meten, AS. m, fr. m, gem, a meeting; akin to OS. m to meet, Icel.
mæta, Goth. gam. See Moot, v. t.]

1. To join, or come in contact with; esp., to come in contact with by
approach from an opposite direction; to come upon or against, front
to front, as distinguished from contact by following and overtaking.

2. To come in collision with; to confront in conflict; to encounter
hostilely; as, they met the enemy and defeated them; the ship met
opposing winds and currents.

3. To come into the presence of without contact; to come close to; to
intercept; to come within the perception, influence, or recognition
of; as, to meet a train at a junction; to meet carriages or persons
in the street; to meet friends at a party; sweet sounds met the ear.
His daughter came out to meet him. Judg. xi. 34.

4. To perceive; to come to a knowledge of; to have personal
acquaintance with; to experience; to suffer; as, the eye met a horrid
sight; he met his fate.
Of vice or virtue, whether blest or curst, Which meets contempt, or
which compassion first. Pope.

5. To come up to; to be even with; to equal; to match; to satisfy; to
ansver; as, to meet one's expectations; the supply meets the demand.
To meet half way, literally, to go half the distance between in order
to meet (one); hence, figuratively, to yield or concede half of the
difference in order to effect a compromise or reconciliation with.

MEET
Meet, v. t.

1. To come together by mutual approach; esp., to come in contact, or
into proximity, by approach from opposite directions; to join; to
come face to face; to come in close relationship; as, we met in the
street; two lines meet so as to form an angle.
O, when meet now Such pairs in love and mutual honor joined ! Milton.

2. To come together with hostile purpose; to have an encounter or
conflict.
Weapons more violent, when next we meet, May serve to better us and
worse our foes. Milton.

3. To assemble together; to congregate; as, Congress meets on the
first Monday of December.
They . . . appointed a day to meet together. 2. Macc. xiv. 21.

4. To come together by mutual concessions; hence, to agree; to
harmonize; to unite. To meet with. (a) To light upon; to find; to
come to; -- often with the sense of unexpectedness.
We met with many things worthy of observation. Bacon.
(b) To join; to unite in company. Shak. (c) To suffer unexpectedly;
as, to meet with a fall; to meet with a loss. (d) To encounter; to be
subjected to.
Prepare to meet with more than brutal fury From the fierce prince.
Rowe.
(e) To obviate. [Obs.] Bacon.

MEET
Meet, n.

Defn: An assembling together; esp., the assembling of huntsmen for
the hunt; also, the persons who so assemble, and the place of
meeting.

MEET
Meet, a. Etym: [OE. mete fitting, moderate, scanty, AS. m moderate;
akin to gemet fit, meet, metan to mete, and G. mässig moderate,
gemäss fitting. See Mete.]

Defn: Suitable; fit; proper; appropriate; qualified; convenient.
It was meet that we should make merry. Luke xv. 32.
To be meet with, to be even with; to be equal to. [Obs.]

MEET
Meet, adv.

Defn: Meetly. [Obs.] Shak.

MEETEN
Meet"en, v. t.

Defn: To render fit. [R.]

MEETER
Meet"er, n.

Defn: One who meets.

MEETH
Meeth

Defn: , Mead. See Meathe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MEETING
Meet"ing, n.

1. A coming together; an assembling; as, the meeting of Congress.

2. A junction, crossing, or union; as, the meeting of the roads or of
two rivers.

3. A congregation; a collection of people; a convention; as, a large
meeting; an harmonius meeting.

4. An assembly for worship; as, to attend meeting on Sunday; -- in
England, applied distinctively and disparagingly to the worshiping
assemblies of Dissenters.

Syn.
 -- Conference; assembly; company; convention; congregation;
junction; confluence; union.

MEETINGHOUSE
Meet"ing*house`, n.

Defn: A house used as a place of worship; a church; -- in England,
applied only to a house so used by Dissenters.

MEETLY
Meet"ly, adv.

Defn: Fitly; suitably; properly.

MEETNESS
Meet"ness, n.

Defn: Fitness; suitableness; propriety.

MEG-; MEGA; MEGALO-
Meg-, Meg"a, Meg"a*lo-. Etym: [Gr. me`gas, gen. mega`loy, great.]

Defn: Combining forms signifying: (a) Great, extended, powerful; as,
megascope, megacosm. (b) (Metric System, Elec., Mech., etc.)

Defn: A million times, a million of; as, megameter, a million meters;
megafarad, a million farads; megohm, a million ohms.

MEGACEPHALIC; MEGACEPHALOUS
Meg`a*ce*phal"ic, Meg`a*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Mega- Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Large headed; -- applied to animals, and to plants when they
have large flower heads.

MEGACEROS
Me*gac"e*ros, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. me`gas great + horn.] (Paleon.)

Defn: The Irish elk.

MEGACHILE
Meg"a*chile, n. Etym: [Mega- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A leaf-cutting bee of the genus Megachilus. See Leaf cutter,
under Leaf.

MEGACOSM
Meg"a*cosm, n. Etym: [Mega- + Gr.

Defn: See Macrocosm. Croft.

MEGACOULOMB
Meg`a*cou`lomb", n. Etym: [Mega- + coulomb.] (Elec.)

Defn: A million coulombs.

MEGADERM
Meg"a*derm, n. Etym: [Mega- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of Old World blood-sucking bats of
the genus Megaderma.

MEGADYNE
Meg"a*dyne, n. Etym: [Mega- + dyne.] (Physics)

Defn: One of the larger measures of force, amounting to one million
dynes.

MEGAFARAD
Meg"a*far`ad, n. Etym: [Mega- + farad.] (Elec.)

Defn: One of the larger measures of electrical capacity, amounting to
one million farads; a macrofarad.

MEGALERG
Meg"a*lerg, n. Etym: [Megalo- + erg.] (Physics)

Defn: A million ergs; a megerg.

MEGALESIAN
Meg`a*le"sian, a. Etym: [L. Megalesius, fr. Gr. Mega`lh the Great, a
surname of Cybele, the Magna Mater.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or in honor of, Cybele; as, the Megalesian games
at Rome.

MEGALETHOSCOPE
Meg`a*leth"o*scope, n. Etym: [Mega- + alethoscope.]

Defn: An optical apparatus in which pictures are viewed through a
large lens with stereoptical effects. It is often combined with the
stereoscope.

MEGALITH
Meg"a*lith, n. Etym: [Mega- + -lith; cf. F. mégalithe.]

Defn: A large stone; especially, a large stone used in ancient
building.
 -- Meg`a*lith"ic, a.

MEGALO-
Meg"a*lo-.

Defn: See Meg-.

MEGALOCEPHALIA; MEGALOCEPHALY
Meg`a*lo*ce*pha"li*a, Meg`a*lo*ceph"a*ly, n. [NL. megalocephalia, fr.
Gr.  having a large head.] (Med.)

Defn: The condition of having an abnormally large head. --
Meg`a*lo*ce*phal"ic (#), a.

MEGALOCYTE
Meg"a*lo*cyte, n. Etym: [Megalo- + Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A large, flattened corpuscle, twice the diameter of the
ordinary red corpuscle, found in considerable numbers in the blood in
profound anæmia.

MEGALOMANIA
Meg`a*lo*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. megalo- + mania.] (Pathol.)

Defn: A form of mental alienation in which the patient has grandiose
delusions.

MEGALONYX
Meg`a*lon"yx, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. me`gas, mega`lh, great + 'o`nyx
claw.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct quaternary mammal, of great size, allied to the
sloth.

MEGALOPHONOUS
Meg`a*loph"o*nous, a. Etym: [Megalo- + Gr. fwnh` voice.]

Defn: Having a loud voice.

MEGALOPOLIS
Meg`a*lop"o*lis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. megalo`polis; me`gas,
mega`lh, great + po`lis city.]

Defn: A chief city; a metropolis. [R.]

MEGALOPS
Meg"a*lops, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. me`gas, -a`loy, large + 'w`ps
eye.] (Zoöl.)

1. A larva, in a stage following the zoëa, in the development of most
crabs. In this stage the legs and abdominal appendages have appeared,
the abdomen is relatively long, and the eyes are large. Also used
adjectively.

2. A large fish; the tarpum.

MEGALOPSYCHY
Meg`a*lop"sy*chy, n. Etym: [Megalo- + Gr.

Defn: Greatness of soul. [Obs. & R.]

MEGALOSAUR; MEGALOSAURUS
Meg"a*lo*saur`, Meg`a*lo*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL. megalosaurus, fr. Gr.
mégalosaure.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A gigantic carnivorous dinosaur, whose fossil remains have been
found in England and elsewhere.

MEGAMETER
Me*gam"e*ter, n. Etym: [Mega- + -meter: cf. F. mégamètre.] (Physics)

1. An instrument for determining longitude by observation of the
stars.

2. A micrometer. [R.] Knight.

MEGAMETER; MEGAMETRE
Meg"a*me`ter, Meg"a*me`tre, n. Etym: [Mega- + meter, metre, n., 2.]

Defn: In the metric system, one million meters, or one thousand
kilometers.

MEGAMPERE
Meg`am`père", n. Etym: [Mega- + ampère.] (Elec.)

Defn: A million ampères.

MEGAPHONE
Meg"a*phone, n. Etym: [Mega- + Gr.

Defn: A device to magnify sound, or direct it in a given direction in
a greater volume, as a very large funnel used as an ear trumpet or as
a speaking trumpet.

MEGAPHYTON
Me*gaph"y*ton, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. me`gas great + fyto`n plant.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of tree ferns with large, two-ranked leaves,
or fronds.

MEGAPODE
Meg"a*pode, n. Etym: [Mega- + Gr. poy`s, podo`s, foot.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large-footed, gallinaceous birds
of the genera Megapodius and Leipoa, inhabiting Australia and other
Pacific islands. See Jungle fowl (b) under Jungle, and Leipoa.

MEGAPOLIS
Me*gap"o*lis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. me`gas great + po`lis city.]

Defn: A metropolis. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

MEGARIAN; MEGARIC
Me*ga"ri*an, Me*gar"ic, a.

Defn: Belonging, or pertaining, to Megara, a city of ancient Greece.
Megarian, or Megaric, school, a school of philosophy established at
Megara, after the death of Socrates, by his disciples, and remarkable
for its logical subtlety.

MEGASCOPE
Meg"a*scope, n. Etym: [Mega- + -scope: cf. F. mégascope.]

Defn: A modification of the magic lantern, used esp. for throwing a
magnified image of an opaque object on a screen, solar or artificial
light being used.

MEGASCOPIC; MEGASCOPICAL
Meg`a*scop"ic, Meg`a*scop"ic*al, a.

1. (Physics) Of or pertaining to the megascope or the projection upon
a screen of images of opaque objects.
 (b) Enlarged or magnified; -- said of images or of photographic
pictures, etc.

2. (Geol.) Large enough to be seen; --said of the larger structural
features and components of rocks which do not require the use of the
microscope to be perceived. Opposed to microscopic.

MEGASEME
Meg"a*seme, a. Etym: [Mega- + Gr. mégasème.] (Anat.)

Defn: Having the orbital index relatively large; having the orbits
narrow transversely; -- opposed to microseme.

MEGASS; MEGASSE
Me"gass", Me*gasse", n.

Defn: See Bagasse.

MEGASTHENE
Meg"as*thene, n. Etym: [Gr. me`gas great + sthe`nos strength.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group which includes the higher orders of mammals,
having a large size as a typical characteristic.

MEGASTHENIC
Meg`as*then"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a typically large size; belonging to the megasthenes.

MEGASTOME
Meg"a*stome, n. Etym: [Gr. me`gas great + sto`ma mouth.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of univalve shells, having a large aperture or
mouth.

MEGATHERE; MEGATHERIUM
Meg"a*there, Meg`a*the"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. megatherium, fr. Gr.
me`gas great + thyri`on beast.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct gigantic quaternary mammal, allied to the ant-eaters
and sloths. Its remains are found in South America.

MEGATHEROID
Meg`a*the"roid, n. Etym: [Megatherium + -oid.] (Paleon.)

Defn: One of a family of extinct edentates found in America. The
family includes the megatherium, the megalonyx, etc.

MEGAVOLT
Meg`a*volt", n. Etym: [Mega- + volt.] (Elec.)

Defn: One of the larger measures of electro-motive force, amounting
to one million volts.

MEGAWEBER
Meg`a*we"ber, n. Etym: [Mega- + weber.] (Elec.)

Defn: A million webers.

MEGERG
Meg"erg`, n. Etym: [Mega- + erg.] (Physics)

Defn: One of the larger measures of work, amounting to one million
ergs; -- called also megalerg.

MEGILP; MEGILPH
Me*gilp", Me*gilph", n. (Paint.)

Defn: A gelatinous compound of linseed oil and mastic varnish, used
by artists as a vehicle for colors. [Written also magilp, and
magilph.]

MEGOHM
Meg"ohm", n. Etym: [Mega- + ohm.] (Elec.)

Defn: One of the larger measures of electrical resistance, amounting
to one million ohms.

MEGRIM
Me"grim, n. Etym: [OE. migrim, migrene, F. migraine, LL. hemigrania,
L. hemicrania, hemicranium, Gr. Hemi- and Cranium, and cf.
Hemicrania, Migraine.]

1. A kind of sick or nevrous headache, usually periodical and
confined to one side of the head.

2. A fancy; a whim; a freak; a humor; esp., in the plural, lowness of
spirits.
These are his megrims, firks, and melancholies. Ford.

3. pl. (Far.)

Defn: A sudden vertigo in a horse, succeeded sometimes by
unconsciousness, produced by an excess of blood in the brain; a mild
form of apoplexy. Youatt.

MEGRIM
Me"grim, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The British smooth sole, or scaldfish (Psetta arnoglossa).

MEIBOMIAN
Mei*bo"mi*an, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Meibomius. Meibomian
glands, the slender sebaceous glands of the eyelids, which discharge,
through minute orifices in the edges of the lids, a fatty secretion
serving to lubricate the adjacent parts.

MEINE
Meine, v. t.

Defn: See Menge.

MEINE; MEINY
Mein"e, Mein"y, (, n. Etym: [OF. maisniée, maisnie. See Menial.]

1. A family, including servants, etc.; household; retinue; train.
[Obs.] Chaucer. Shak.

2. Company; band; army. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MEIOCENE
Mei"o*cene, a. (Geol.)

Defn: See Miocene.

MEIONITE
Mei"o*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A member of the scapolite, group, occuring in glassy crystals
on Monte Somma, near Naples.

MEIOSIS
Mei*o"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Meionite.] (Rhet.)

Defn: Diminution; a species of hyperbole, representing a thing as
being less than it really is.

MEIOSTEMONOUS
Mei`o*stem"o*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having fever stamens than the parts of the corolla.

MEISTERSINGER
Meis"ter*sing`er, n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: See Mastersinger.

MEKHITARIST
Mekh"i*tar*ist, n. (Ecc. Hist.)

Defn: See Mechitarist.

MELACONITE
Me*lac"o*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: An earthy black oxide of copper, arising from the decomposition
of other ores.

MELADA; MELADO
Me*la"da, Me*la"do, n. Etym: [Sp., prop. p. p. of melar to sugar,
candy, fr. L. mel honey. See Molasses.]

Defn: A mixture of sugar and molasses; crude sugar as it comes from
the pans without being drained.

MELAENA
Me*læ"na, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A discharge from the bowels of black matter, consisting of
altered blood.

MELAIN
Mel"ain, n. Etym: [See Melna.]

Defn: The dark coloring matter of the liquid of the cuttlefish.

MELAINOTYPE
Me*lai"no*type, n.

Defn: See Melanotype.

MELAM
Me"lam, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mélam.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white or buff-colored granular powder,

MELAMINE
Me*lam"ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A strong nitrogenous base, C3H6N6, produced from several
cyanogen compounds, and obtained as a white crystalline substance, --
formerly supposed to be produced by the decomposition of melam.
Called also cyanuramide.

MELAMPODE
Mel"am*pode, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The black hellebore. [Obs.] Spenser.

MELAMPYRIN; MELAMPYRITE
Mel`am*py"rin, Mel`am*py"rite, n. Etym: [NL. Melampyrum cowwheat; Gr.
(Chem.)

Defn: The saccharine substance dulcite; -- so called because found in
the leaves of cowwheat (Melampyrum). See Dulcite.

MELANAEMIA
Mel`a*næ"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition in which the blood contains black pigment
either floating freely or imbedded in the white blood corpuscles.

MELANAGOGUE
Me*lan"a*gogue, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine supposed to expel black bile or choler. [Obs.]

MELANCHOLIA
Mel`an*cho"li*a, n. Etym: [L. See Melancholy.] (Med.)

Defn: A kind of mental unsoundness characterized by extreme
depression of spirits, ill-grounded fears, delusions, and brooding
over one particular subject or train of ideas.

MELANCHOLIAN
Mel`an*cho"li*an, n.

Defn: A person affected with melancholy; a melancholic. [Obs.] Dr. J.
Scott.

MELANCHOLIC
Mel"an*chol`ic, a. Etym: [L. melancholicus, Gr. mélancholique.]

Defn: Given to melancholy; depressed; melancholy; dejected; unhappy.
Just as the melancholic eye Sees fleets and armies in the sky. Prior.

MELANCHOLIC
Mel"an*chol`ic, n. [Obs.]

1. One affected with a gloomy state of mind. J. Spenser.

2. A gloomy state of mind; melancholy. Clarendon.

MELANCHOLILY
Mel"an*chol`i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a melancholy manner.

MELANCHOLINESS
Mel"an*chol`i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being melancholy. Hallywell.

MELANCHOLIOUS
Mel`an*cho"li*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. melancholieux.]

Defn: Melancholy. [R.] Milton.

MELANCHOLIST
Mel"an*chol*ist, n.

Defn: One affected with melancholy or dejection. [Obs.] Glanvill.

MELANCHOLIZE
Mel"an*cho*lize, v. i.

Defn: To become gloomy or dejected in mind. Barrow.

MELANCHOLIZE
Mel"an*cho*lize, v. t.

Defn: To make melancholy.

MELANCHOLY
Mel"an*chol*y, n. Etym: [OE. melancolie, F. mélancolie, L.
melancholia, fr. Gr. Malice, and 1st Gall.]

1. Depression of spirits; a gloomy state continuing a considerable
time; deep dejection; gloominess. Shak.

2. Great and continued depression of spirits, amounting to mental
unsoundness; melancholia.

3. Pensive maditation; serious thoughtfulness. [Obs.] "Hail, divinest
Melancholy !" Milton.

4. Ill nature. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MELANCHOLY
Mel"an*chol*y, a.

1. Depressed in spirits; dejected; gloomy dismal. Shak.

2. Producing great evil and grief; causing dejection; calamitous;
afflictive; as, a melancholy event.

3. Somewhat deranged in mind; having the jugment impaired. [Obs.] Bp.
Reynolds.

4. Favorable to meditation; somber.
A pretty, melancholy seat, well wooded and watered. Evelin.

Syn.
 -- Gloomy; sad; dispirited; low-spirited; downhearted; unhappy;
hypochondriac; disconsolate; heavy, doleful; dismal; calamitous;
afflictive.

MELANCONIACEAE
Mel`an*co`ni*a"ce*æ, n. pl. [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A family of fungi constituting the order Melanconiales. --
Mel`an*co`ni*a"ceous (#), a.

MELANCONIALES
Mel`an*co`ni*a"les, n. pl. [NL., fr. Melanconium, name of the typical
genus, fr. Gr.  black +  dust, in allusion to the dark spores.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The smallest of the three orders of Fungi Imperfecti, including
those with no asci nor pycnidia, but as a rule having the spores in
cavities without special walls. They cause many of the plant diseases
known as anthracnose.

MELANESIAN
Mel`a*ne"sian, a. Etym: [Gr. Melanesia was so called from the dark
complexion of the natives.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Melanesia.

MELANGE
Mé`lange", n. Etym: [F. See Mell, Meddle.]

Defn: A mixture; a medley.

MELANIAN
Me*la"ni*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a family of fresh-water pectinibranchiate mollusks,
having a turret-shaped shell.

MELANIC
Me*lan"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Melanotic.

2. (Ethnol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the black-haired races. Prichard.

MELANILINE
Me*lan"i*line, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A complex nitrogenous hydrocarbon obtained artificially (as by
the action of cyanogen chloride on aniline) as a white, crystalline
substance; -- called also diphenyl guanidin.

MELANIN
Mel"a*nin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A black pigment found in the pigment-bearing cells of the skin
(particularly in the skin of the negro), in the epithelial cells of
the external layer of the retina (then called fuscin), in the outer
layer of the choroid, and elsewhere. It is supposed to be derived
from the decomposition of hemoglobin.

MELANISM
Mel"a*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. , , black.]

1. An indue development of dark-colored pigment in the skin or its
appendages; -- the opposite of albinism.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A disease; black jaundice. See Mel.

MELANISTIC
Mel`a*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Affected with melanism; of the nature of melanism.

MELANITE
Mel"a*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. mélanite.] (Min.)

Defn: A black variety of garnet.

MELANOCHROI
Mel`a*noch"ro*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Melanochroic.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: A group of the human race, including the dark whites.

MELANOCHROIC
Mel`a*no*chro"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having a dark complexion; of or pertaining to the Melanochroi.

MELANOCHROITE
Mel`a*no*chro"ite, n. Etym: [See Melanochroic.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a red, or brownish or yellowish red color. It is a
chromate of lead; -- called also phoenicocroite.

MELANOCOMOUS
Mel`a*noc"o*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having very dark or black hair; black-haired. Prichard.

MELANOMA
Mel`a*no"ma, n.; L. pl. -nomata (#). [NL.; Gr. , , black + -oma.]
(Med.)
 (a) A tumor containing dark pigment.
 (b) Development of dark-pigmented tumors.

MELANORRHOEA
Mel`a*nor*rhoe"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An East Indian genus of large trees. Melanorrhoea usitatissima
is the lignum-vitæ of Peru, and yelds a valuable black varnish.

MELANOSCOPE
Me*lan"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Opt.)

Defn: An instrument containing a combination of colored glasses such
that they transmit only red light, so that objects of other colors,
as green leaves, appear black when seen through it. It is used for
viewing colored flames, to detect the presence of potassium, lithium,
etc., by the red light which they emit.

MELANOSIS
Mel`a*no"sis, Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The morbid deposition of black matter, often of a malignant
character, causing pigmented tumors.

MELANOSPERM
Me*lan"o*sperm, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An alga of any kind that produces blackish spores, or seed
dust. The melanosperms include the rockweeds and all kinds of kelp.
 -- Mel`a*no*sper"mous, a.

MELANOTIC
Mel`a*not"ic

Defn: , Melanistic.

MELANOTYPE
Me*lan"o*type, n. Etym: [Gr. -type.] (Photog.)

Defn: A positive picture produced with sensitized collodion on a
smooth surface of black varnish, coating a thin plate of iron; also,
the process of making such a picture. [Written also melainotype.]

MELANTERITE
Me*lan"ter*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous sulphate of iron of a green color and vitreous
luster; iron vitriol.

MELANURE
Mel"a*nure, n. Etym: [NL. melanurus, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fish of the Mediterranean; a gilthead. See Gilthead
(a).

MELANURIC
Mel`a*nu"ric, a. Etym: [Melam + urea.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid
obtained by decomposition of melam, or of urea, as a white
crystalline powder; -- called also melanurenic acid.

MELAPHYRE
Mel"a*phyre, n. Etym: [F., fr. Gr. phyre porphyry.] (Min.)

Defn: Any one of several dark-colored augitic, eruptive rocks allied
to basalt.

MELASMA
Me*las"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A dark discoloration of the skin, usually local; as, Addison's
melasma, or Addison's disease.
 -- Me*las"mic, a.

MELASSES
Me*las"ses, n.

Defn: See Molasses.

MELASSIC
Me*las"sic, a. Etym: [See Molasses.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from molasses
or glucose, and probably identical with saccharic acid. See
Saccharic.

MELASTOMA
Me*las"to*ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of evergreen tropical shrubs; -- so called from the
black berries of some species, which stain the mouth.

MELASTOMACEOUS
Mel`a*sto*ma"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to the order of which Melastoma is the type.

MELCHITE
Mel"chite, n. Etym: [Heb. melek king.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect, chiefly in Syria and Egypt, which acknowledges
the authority of the pope, but adheres to the liturgy and ceremonies
of the Eastern Church.

MELD
Meld, v. t. & i.  [imp. & p. p. Melded; p. pr. & vb. n. Melding.] [G.
melden to announce.] (Card Playing)

Defn: In the game of pinochle, to declare or announce for a score;
as, to meld a sequence.

MELD
Meld, n. (Card Playing)

Defn: Any combination or score which may be declared, or melded, in
pinochle.

MELEAGRINE
Mel`e*a"grine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the genus Meleagris.

MELEAGRIS
Mel`e*a"gris, n. Etym: [L., the Guinea fowl.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of American gallinaceous birds, including the common
and the wild turkeys.

MELEE
Mê`lée", n. Etym: [F., fr. mêler to mix. See Meddle, Mell, and cf.
Mellay.]

Defn: A fight in which the combatants are mingled

MELENA
Me*le"na, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Mel.

MELENE
Mel"ene, n. Etym: [Melissic + ethylene.] (Chem.)

Defn: An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C30H60, of the ethylene series,
obtained from beeswax as a white, scaly, crystalline wax; -- called
also melissene, and melissylene.

MELENITE
Mel"e*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. me`li honey.]

Defn: An explosive of great destructive power; -- so called from its
color, which resembles honey.

MELETIN
Mel"e*tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Quercitin.

MELEZITOSE
Me*lez"i*tose`, n. Etym: [F. mélèze the larch + melitose.] (Chem.)

Defn: A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose, extracted from the
manna of the larch (Larix). [Written also melicitose.]

MELIACEOUS
Me`li*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to a natural order (Meliacæ) of plants of which the
genus Melia is the type. It includes the mahogany and the Spanish
cedar.

MELIBEAN; MELIBOEAN
Mel`i*be"an, Mel`i*boe"an, a. Etym: [From L. Meliboeus, one of the
interlocutors in Virgil's first Eclogue.] (Rhet.)

Defn: Alternately responsive, as verses.

MELIC
Mel"ic, Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to song; lyric; tuneful.

MELICEROUS
Me*lic"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. meliceris a kind of tumor, fr. Gr. me`li
honey + (Med.)

Defn: Consisting of or containing matter like honey; -- said of
certain encysted tumors.

MELIC GRASS
Mel"ic grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of grasses (Melica) of little agricultural importance.

MELICOTOON
Mel`i*co*toon", n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Melocoton.

MELICRATORY
Me*lic"ra*to*ry, n. Etym: [Gr. meli`kraton.]

Defn: A meadlike drink. [Obs.]

MELILITE
Mel"i*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. me`li honey + -lite; cf. F. mélilithe.]
(Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in small yellow crystals, found in the
lavas (melilite basalt) of Vesuvius, and elsewhere. [Written also
mellilite.]

MELILOT
Mel"i*lot, n. Etym: [F. mélilot, L. melilotus, fr. Gr. me`li honey +
(Bot.)

Defn: Any species of Melilotus, a genus of leguminous herbs having a
vanillalike odor; sweet clover; hart's clover. The blue melilot
(Melilotus cærulea) is used in Switzerland to give color and flavor
to sapsago cheese.

MELILOTIC
Mel`i*lot"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sweet clover or meliot;
specifically, designating an acid of the aromatic series, obtained
from melilot as a white crystalline substance.

MELINITE
Mé"lin*ite, n. [F.] (Chem.)

Defn: A high explosive similar to lyddite, consisting principally of
picric acid, used in the French military service.

MELIORATE
Mel"io*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Meliorated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Meliorating.] Etym: [L. melioratus, p. p. of meliorare to meliorate,
fr. melior better; akin to Gr. Ameliorate.]

Defn: To make better; to improve; to ameliorate; to soften; to make
more tolerable.
Nature by art we nobly meliorate. Denham.
The pure and bening light of revelation has had a meliorating
influence on mankind. Washington.

MELIORATE
Mel"io*rate, v. i.

Defn: To grow better.

MELIORATER
Mel"io*ra`ter, n.

Defn: Same as Meliorator.

MELIORATION
Mel`io*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. melioratio.]

Defn: The act or operation of meliorating, or the state of being
meliorated; improvement. Bacon.

MELIORATOR
Mel"io*ra`tor, n.

Defn: One who meliorates.

MELIORISM
Mel"io*rism, n. Etym: [From L. melior better.]

Defn: The doctrine that there is a tendency throughout nature toward
improvement. J. Sully.

MELIORITY
Mel*ior"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. melioritas, fr. L. melior. See
Meliorate.]

Defn: The state or quality of being better; melioration. [Obs.]
Bacon.

MELIPHAGAN
Me*liph"a*gan, a. Etym: [Gr. me`li honey + (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the genus Meliphaga.

MELIPHAGAN
Me*liph"a*gan, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the genus Meliphaga and allied genera; a honey
eater; -- called also meliphagidan.

MELIPHAGOUS
Me*liph"a*gous, a. Etym: [See Meliphagan.] (Zool.)

Defn: Eating, or feeding upon, honey.

MELISMA
Me*lis"ma, n.; pl. Melismata. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Mus.)
(a) A piece of melody; a song or tune, -- as opposed to recitative or
musical declamation.
(b) A grace or embellishment.

MELISSA
Me*lis"sa, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. me`lissa a bee, honey.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of labiate herbs, including the balm, or bee balm
(Melissa officinalis).

MELISSIC
Me*lis"sic, a. Etym: [Gr. me`lissa a bee, honey.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax; specif., denoting an
acid obtained by oxidation of myricin.

MELISSYL
Me*lis"syl, n. Etym: [Melissic +yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Myricyl.

MELISSYLENE
Me*lis"sy*lene, n. Etym: [Melissic + -yl + -ene.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Melene.

MELITOSE
Mel"i*tose`, n. Etym: [Gr. me`li honey.] (Chem.)

Defn: A variety of sugar isomeric with sucrose, extracted from cotton
seeds and from the so-called Australian manna (a secretion of certain
species of Eucalyptus).

MELL
Mell, v. i. & t. Etym: [F. mêler, OF. meller, mester. See Meddle.]

Defn: To mix; to meddle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MELL
Mell, n. Etym: [See Mellifluous.]

Defn: Honey. [Obs.] Warner.

MELL
Mell, n.

Defn: A mill. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MELLATE
Mel"late, n. Etym: [L. mel, mellis, honey. Cf. Mellitate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A mellitate. [R.]

MELLAY
Mel"lay, n.

Defn: A mêlée; a conflict. Tennyson.

MELLIC
Mel"lic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: See Mellitic. [R.]

MELLIFEROUS
Mel*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. mellifer; mel, mellis, honey + ferre to
bear.]

Defn: Producing honey.

MELLIFIC
Mel*lif"ic, a. Etym: [L. mel, mellis, honey + -ficare (in comp.) to
make. See -fy.]

Defn: Producing honey.

MELLIFICATION
Mel`li*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. mellificare to make honey: cf. F.
mellification. See Mellific.]

Defn: The making or production of honey.

MELLIFLUENCE
Mel*lif"lu*ence, n.

Defn: A flow of sweetness, or a sweet, smooth flow.

MELLIFLUENT
Mel*lif"lu*ent, a. Etym: [L. mellifluens. See Mellifluous.]

Defn: Flowing as with honey; smooth; mellifluous.

MELLIFLUENTLY
Mel*lif"lu*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mellifluent manner.

MELLIFLUOUS
Mel*lif"lu*ous, a. Etym: [L. mellifluus; mel, mellis, honey (akin to
Gr. milip) + fluere to flow. See Mildew, Fluent, and cf. Marmalade.]

Defn: Flowing as with honey; smooth; flowing sweetly or smoothly; as,
a mellifluous voice.
 -- Mel*lif"lu*ous*ly, adv.

MELLIGENOUS
Mel*lig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. mel, mellis + -genous.]

Defn: Having the qualities of honey. [R.]

MELLIGO
Mel*li"go, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Honeydew.

MELLILOQUENT
Mel*lil"o*quent, a. Etym: [L. mel, mellis honey + loquens speaking,
p. pr. of loqui to speak.]

Defn: Speaking sweetly or harmoniously.

MELLIPHAGAN
Mel*liph"a*gan, n.

Defn: See Meliphagan.

MELLIPHAGOUS
Mel*liph"a*gous, a.

Defn: See Meliphagous.

MELLITATE
Mel"li*tate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mellitate. See Mellitic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of mellitic acid.

MELLITE
Mel"lite, n. Etym: [L. mel, mellis, honey: cf. F. mellite.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a honey color, found in brown coal, and partly the
result of vegetable decomposition; honeystone. It is a mellitate of
alumina.

MELLITIC
Mel*lit"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mellitique. See Mellite.] (Chem.)
(a) Containing saccharine matter; marked by saccharine secretions;
as, mellitic diabetes.
(b) Pertaining to, or derived from, the mineral mellite. Mellitic
acid (Chem.), a white, crystalline, organic substance, C6(CO2H)6,
occurring naturally in combination with aluminium in the mineral
mellite, and produced artificially by the oxidation of coal,
graphite, etc., and hence called also graphitic acid.

MELLONE
Mel"lone, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow powder, C6H3N9, obtained from certain sulphocyanates.
It has acid properties and forms compounds called mellonides.

MELLONIDE
Mel"lon*ide, n.

Defn: See Mellone.

MELLOW
Mel"low, a. [Compar. Mellower; superl. Mellowest.] Etym: [OE. melwe;
cf. AS. mearu soft, D. murw, Prov. G. mollig soft, D. malsch, and E.
meal flour.]

1. Soft or tender by reason of ripeness; having a tender pulp; as, a
mellow apple.

2. Hence:
(a) Easily worked or penetrated; not hard or rigid; as, a mellow
soil. "Mellow glebe." Drayton
(b) Not coarse, rough, or harsh; subdued; soft; rich; delicate; --
said of sound, color, flavor, style, etc. "The mellow horn."
Wordsworth. "The mellow-tasted Burgundy." Thomson.
The tender flush whose mellow stain imbues Heaven with all freaks of
light. Percival.

3. Well matured; softened by years; genial; jovial.
May health return to mellow age. Wordsworth.
As merry and mellow an old bachelor as ever followed a hound. W.
Irving.

4. Warmed by liquor; slightly intoxicated. Addison.

MELLOW
Mel"low, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mellowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mellowing.]

Defn: To make mellow. Shak.
If the Weather prove frosty to mellow it [the ground], they do not
plow it again till April. Mortimer.
The fervor of early feeling is tempered and mellowed by the ripeness
of age. J. C. Shairp.

MELLOW
Mel"low, v. i.

Defn: To become mellow; as, ripe fruit soon mellows. "Prosperity
begins to mellow." Shak.

MELLOWLY
Mel"low*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mellow manner.

MELLOWNESS
Mel"low*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being mellow.

MELLOWY
Mel"low*y, a.

Defn: Soft; unctuous. Drayton.

MELLUCO
Mel*lu"co, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A climbing plant (Ullucus officinalis) of the Andes, having
tuberous roots which are used as a substitute for potatoes.

MELNE
Mel"ne, n.

Defn: A mill. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MELOCOTON; MELOCOTOON
Mel`o*co*ton", Mel`o*co*toon", n. Etym: [Sp. melocoton a kind of
peach tree and its fruit, L. malum cotonium, or cotonea, or Cydonia,
a quince, or quince tree, lit., apple of Cydonia, Gr. Quince.] (Bot.)
(a) A quince.
(b) A kind of peach having one side deep red, and the flesh yellow.
[Written also malacatoon, malacotune.]

MELODEON
Me*lo"de*on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Melody, and cf. Odeon.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A kind of small reed organ; -- a portable form of the
seraphine.

2. A music hall.

MELODIC
Me*lod"ic, a. Etym: [L. melodicus, Gr. mélodique.]

Defn: Of the nature of melody; relating to, containing, or made up
of, melody; melodious.

MELODICS
Me*lod"ics, n.

Defn: The department of musical science which treats of the pitch of
tones, and of the laws of melody.

MELODIOGRAPH
Me*lo"di*o*graph, n. Etym: [Melody + -graph.]

Defn: A contrivance for preserving a record of music, by recording
the action of the keys of a musical instrument when played upon.

MELODIOUS
Me*lo"di*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mélodieux. See Melody.]

Defn: Containing, or producing, melody; musical; agreeable to the ear
by a sweet succession of sounds; as, a melodious voice. "A melodious
voice." "A melodious undertone." Longfellow.
 -- Me*lo"di*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Me*lo"di*ous*ness, n.

MELODIST
Mel"o*dist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mélodiste.]

Defn: A composer or singer of melodies.

MELODIZE
Mel"o*dize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Melodized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Melodizing.]

Defn: To make melodious; to form into, or set to, melody.

MELODIZE
Mel"o*dize, v. i.

Defn: To make melody; to compose melodies; to harmonize.

MELODRAMA
Mel`o*dra"ma, n. Etym: [F. mélodrame, fr. Gr.

Defn: Formerly, a kind of drama having a musical accompaniment to
intensify the effect of certain scenes. Now, a drama abounding in
romantic sentiment and agonizing situations, with a musical
accompaniment only in parts which are especially thrilling or
pathetic. In opera, a passage in which the orchestra plays a somewhat
descriptive accompaniment, while the actor speaks; as, the melodrama
in the gravedigging scene of Beethoven's "Fidelio".

MELODRAMATIC
Mel`o*dra*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mélodramatique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to melodrama; like or suitable to a melodrama;
unnatural in situation or action.
 -- Mel`o*dra*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

MELODRAMATIST
Mel`o*dram"a*tist, n.

Defn: One who acts in, or writes, melodramas.

MELODRAME
Mel"o*drame, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Melodrama.

MELODY
Mel"o*dy, n.; pl. Melodies. Etym: [OE. melodie, F. mélodie, L.
melodia, fr. Gr. Ode.]

1. A sweet or agreeable succession of sounds.
Lulled with sound of sweetest melody. Shak.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A rhythmical succession of single tones, ranging for the most
part within a given key, and so related together as to form a musical
whole, having the unity of what is technically called a musical
thought, at once pleasing to the ear and characteristic in
expression.

Note: Melody consists in a succession of single tones; harmony is a
consonance or agreement of tones, also a succession of consonant
musical combinations or chords.

3. The air or tune of a musical piece.

Syn.
 -- See Harmony.

MELOE
Mel"o*e, Etym: [ NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of beetles without wings, but having short oval elytra;
the oil beetles. These beetles are sometimes used instead of
cantharides for raising blisters. See Oil beetle, under Oil.

MELOGRAPH
Mel"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph : cf. F. mélographe.]

Defn: Same as Melodiograph.

MELOLONTHIDIAN
Mel`o*lon*thid"i*an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beetle of the genus Melolontha, and allied genera. See May
beetle, under May.

MELON
Mel"on, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. melo, for melopepo an apple-shaped
melon, Gr. malum apple. Cf. Marmalade.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The juicy fruit of certain cucurbitaceous plants, as the
muskmelon, watermelon, and citron melon; also, the plant that
produces the fruit.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, ornamental, marine, univalve shell of the genus Melo.
Melon beetle (Zoöl.), a small leaf beetle (Diabrotiea vittata), which
damages the leaves of melon vines.
 -- Melon cactus, Melon thistle. (a) (Bot.) A genus of cactaceous
plants (Melocactus) having a fleshy and usually globose stem with the
surface divided into spiny longitudinal ridges, and bearing at the
top a prickly and woolly crown in which the small pink flowers are
half concealed. M. communis, from the West Indies, is often
cultivated, and sometimes called Turk's cap. (b) The related genus
Mamillaria, in which the stem is tubercled rather than ribbed, and
the flowers sometimes large. See Illust. under Cactus.

MELOPIANO
Mel`o*pi*a"no, n. Etym: [Gr. piano.]

Defn: A piano having a mechanical attachment which enables the player
to prolong the notes at will.

MELOPLASTIC
Mel`o*plas"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to meloplasty, or the artificial formation of
a new cheek.

MELOPLASTY
Mel"o*plas`ty, n. Etym: [Gr. -plasty: cf. F. méloplastie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The process of restoring a cheek which has been destroyed
wholly or in part.

MELOPOEIA
Mel`o*poe"ia, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Mus.)

Defn: The art of forming melody; melody; -- now often used for a
melodic passage, rather than a complete melody.

MELOTYPE
Mel"o*type, n. (Photog.)

Defn: A picture produced by a process in which development after
exposure may be deferred indefinitely, so as to permit transportation
of exposed plates; also, the process itself.

MELPOMENE
Mel*pom"e*ne, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The Muse of tragedy.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The eighteenth asteroid.

MELROSE
Mel"rose, n.

Defn: Honey of roses.

MELT
Melt, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See 2d Milt.

MELT
Melt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Melted (obs.) p. p. Molten; p. pr. & vb. n.
Melting.] Etym: [AS. meltan; akin to Gr. malt, and prob. to E. smelt,
v. Smelt, v., Malt, Milt the spleen.]

1. To reduce from a solid to a liquid state, as by heat; to liquefy;
as, to mell wax, tallow, or lead; to melt ice or snow.

2. Hence: To soften, as by a warming or kindly influence; to relax;
to render gentle or susceptible to mild influences; sometimes, in a
bad sense, to take away the firmness of; to weaken.
Thou would'st have . . . melted down thy youth. Shak.
For pity melts the mind to love. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To liquefy; fuse; thaw; mollify; soften.

MELT
Melt, v. i.

1. To be changed from a solid to a liquid state under the influence
of heat; as, butter and wax melt at moderate temperatures.

2. To dissolve; as, sugar melts in the mouth.

3. Hence: To be softened; to become tender, mild, or gentle; also, to
be weakened or subdued, as by fear.
My soul melteth for heaviness. Ps. cxix. 28.
Melting with tenderness and kind compassion. Shak.

4. To lose distinct form or outline; to blend.
The soft, green, rounded hills, with their flowing outlines,
overlapping and melting into each other. J. C. Shairp.

5. To disappear by being dispersed or dissipated; as, the fog melts
away. Shak.

MELTABLE
Melt"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being melted.

MELTER
Melt"er

Defn: , One who, or that which, melts.

MELTING
Melt"ing, n.

Defn: Liquefaction; the act of causing (something) to melt, or the
process of becoming melted. Melting point (Chem.), the degree of
temperature at which a solid substance melts or fuses; as, the
melting point of ice is 0º Centigrade or 32º Fahr., that of urea is
132º Centigrade.
 -- Melting pot, a vessel in which anything is melted; a crucible.

MELTING
Melt"ing a.

Defn: Causing to melt; becoming melted; -- used literally or
figuratively; as, a melting heat; a melting appeal; a melting mood.
 -- Melt"ing*ly, adv.

MELTON
Mel"ton, Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A kind of stout woolen cloth with unfinished face and without
raised nap. A commoner variety has a cotton warp.

MELUNGEON
Me*lun"geon, n. [Cf. F. mélanger to mix, mélange a mixture.]

Defn: One of a mixed white and Indian people living in parts of
Tennessee and the Carolinas. They are descendants of early
intermixtures of white settlers with natives. In North Carolina the
Croatan Indians, regarded as descended from Raleigh's lost colony of
Croatan, formerly classed with negroes, are now legally recognized as
distinct.

MEMBER
Mem"ber, v. t. Etym: [See Remember.]

Defn: To remember; to cause to remember; to mention. [Obs.]

MEMBER
Mem"ber, n. Etym: [OE. membre, F. membre, fr. L. membrum; cf. Goth.
mimz flesh, Skr. mamsa.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A part of an animal capable of performing a distinct office; an
organ; a limb.
We have many members in one body, and all members have not the same
office. Rom. xii. 4.

2. Hence, a part of a whole; an independent constituent of a body;
as:
(a) A part of a discourse or of a period or sentence; a clause; a
part of a verse.
(b) (Math.) Either of the two parts of an algebraic equation,
connected by the sign of equality. (c) (Engin.)

Defn: Any essential part, as a post, tie rod, strut, etc., of a
framed structure, as a bridge truss.
(d) (Arch.) Any part of a building, whether constructional, as a
pier, column, lintel, or the like, or decorative, as a molding, or
group of moldings.
(e) One of the persons composing a society, community, or the like;
an individual forming part of an association; as, a member of the
society of Friends. Compression member, Tension member (Engin.), a
member, as a rod, brace, etc., which is subjected to compression or
tension, respectively.

MEMBERED
Mem"bered, a.

1. Having limbs; -- chiefly used in composition.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Having legs of a different tincture from that of the body; --
said of a bird in heraldic representations.

MEMBERSHIP
Mem"ber*ship, n.

1. The state of being a member.

2. The collective body of members, as of a society.

MEMBRAL
Mem"bral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Relating to a member.

MEMBRANACEOUS
Mem`bra*na"ceous, a. Etym: [L. membranaceus.]

1. Same as Membranous. Arbuthnot.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Thin and rather soft or pliable, as the leaves of the rose,
peach tree, and aspen poplar.

MEMBRANE
Mem"brane, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. membrana the skin that covers the
separate members of the body, fr. L. membrum. See Member.] (Anat.)

Defn: A thin layer or fold of tissue, usually supported by a fibrous
network, serving to cover or line some part or organ, and often
secreting or absorbing certain fluids.

Note: The term is also often applied to the thin, expanded parts, of
various texture, both in animals and vegetables. Adventitious
membrane, a membrane connecting parts not usually connected, or of a
different texture from the ordinary connection; as, the membrane of a
cicatrix.
 -- Jacob's membrane. See under Retina.
 -- Mucous membranes (Anat.), the membranes lining passages and
cavities which communicate with the exterior, as well as ducts and
receptacles of secretion, and habitually secreting mucus.
 -- Schneiderian membrane. (Anat.) See Schneiderian.
 -- Serous membranes (Anat.) , the membranes, like the peritoneum and
pleura, which line, or lie in, cavities having no obvious outlet, and
secrete a serous fluid.

MEMBRANEOUS
Mem*bra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. membraneus of parchment.]

Defn: See Membranous.

MEMBRANIFEROUS
Mem`bra*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Membrane + -ferous.]

Defn: Having or producing membranes.

MEMBRANIFORM
Mem*bra"ni*form, a. Etym: [Membrane + -form: cf. F. membraniforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a membrane or of parchment.

MEMBRANOLOGY
Mem`bra*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Membrane + -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of membranes.

MEMBRANOUS
Mem"bra*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. membraneux.]

1. Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, membrane; as, a
membranous covering or lining.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Membranaceous. Membranous croup (Med.), true croup. See Croup.

MEMENTO
Me*men"to, n.; pl. Mementos. Etym: [L., remember, be mindful, imper.
of meminisse to remember. See Mention.]

Defn: A hint, suggestion, token, or memorial, to awaken memory; that
which reminds or recalls to memory; a souvenir.
Seasonable mementos may be useful. Bacon.

MEMENTO MORI
Me*men"to mo"ri. [L.]

Defn: Lit., remember to die, i.e., that you must die; a warning to be
prepared for death; an object, as a death's-head or a personal
ornament, usually emblematic, used as a reminder of death.

MEMINNA
Me*min"na, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small deerlet, or chevrotain, of India.

MEMNON
Mem"non, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. (Antiq.)

Defn: A celebrated Egyptian statue near Thebes, said to have the
property of emitting a harplike sound at sunrise.

MEMOIR; MEMOIRS
Mem"oir, or pl. Mem"oirs, n. Etym: [F. mémoire, m., memorandum, fr.
mémoire, f., memory, L. memoria. See Memory.]

1. A memorial account; a history composed from personal experience
and memory; an account of transactions or events (usually written in
familiar style) as they are remembered by the writer. See History, 2.

2. A memorial of any individual; a biography; often, a biography
written without special regard to method and completeness.

3. An account of something deemed noteworthy; an essay; a record of
investigations of any subject; the journals and proceedings of a
society.

MEMOIRIST
Mem"oir*ist, n.

Defn: A writer of memoirs.

MEMORABILIA
Mem`o*ra*bil"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. memorabilis memorable. See
Memorable.]

Defn: Things remarkable and worthy of remembrance or record; also,
the record of them.

MEMORABILITY
Mem`o*ra*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being memorable.

MEMORABLE
Mem"o*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. memorabilis, fr. memorare to bring to
remembrance, fr. memor mindful, remembering. See Memory, and cf.
Memorabilia.]

Defn: Worthy to be remembered; very important or remarkable.
 -- Mem"o*ra*ble*ness, n.
 -- Mem"o*ra*bly, adv.
Surviving fame to gain, Buy tombs, by books, by memorable deeds. Sir
J. Davies.

MEMORANDUM
Mem`o*ran"dum, n.; pl. E. Memorandums, L. Memoranda. Etym: [L.,
something to be remembered, neut. of memorandus, fut. pass. p. of
memorare. See Memorable.]

1. A record of something which it is desired to remember; a note to
help the memory.
I . . . entered a memorandum in my pocketbook. Guardian.
I wish you would, as opportunity offers, make memorandums of the
regulations of the academies. Sir J. Reynolds.

2. (Law)

Defn: A brief or informal note in writing of some transaction, or an
outline of an intended instrument; an instrument drawn up in a brief
and compendious form. Memorandum check, a check given as an
acknowledgment of indebtedness, but with the understanding that it
will not be presented at bank unless the maker fails to take it up on
the day the debt becomes due. It usually has Mem. written on its
face.

MEMORATE
Mem"o*rate, v. t. Etym: [L. memoratus, p. p. of memorare. See
Memorable.]

Defn: To commemorate. [Obs.]

MEMORATIVE
Mem"o*ra*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mémoratif.]

Defn: Commemorative. [Obs.] Hammond.

MEMORIA
Me*mo"ri*a, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Memory. Memoria technica, technical memory; a contrivance for
aiding the memory.

MEMORIAL
Me*mo"ri*al, a. Etym: [F. mémorial, L. memorialis, fr. memoria. See
Memory.]

1. Serving to preserve remembrance; commemorative; as, a memorial
building.
There high in air, memorial of my name, Fix the smooth oar, and bid
me live to fame. Pope.

2. Contained in memory; as, a memorial possession.

3. Mnemonic; assisting the memory.
This succession of Aspirate, Soft, and Hard, may be expressed by the
memorial word ASH. Skeat.
Memorial Day. Same as Decoration Day. [U.S.]

MEMORIAL
Me*mo"ri*al, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mémorial.]

1. Anything intended to preserve the memory of a person or event;
something which serves to keep something else in remembrance; a
monument. Macaulay.
Churches have names; some as memorials of peace, some of wisdom, some
in memory of the Trinity itself. Hooker.

2. A memorandum; a record. [Obs. or R.] Hayward.

3. A written representation of facts, addressed to the government, or
to some branch of it, or to a society, etc., -- often accompanied
with a petition.

4. Memory; remembrance. [Obs.]
Precious is the memorial of the just. Evelyn.

5. (Diplomacy)

Defn: A species of informal state paper, much used in negotiation.

MEMORIAL DAY
Me*mo"ri*al Day.

Defn: A day, May 30, appointed for commemorating, by decorating their
graves with flowers, by patriotic exercises, etc., the dead soldiers
and sailors who served the Civil War (1861-65) in the United States;
Decoration Day. It is a legal holiday in most of the States. In the
Southern States, the Confederate Memorial Day is: May 30 in Virginia;
April 26 in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi; May 10 in
North Carolina and South Carolina; the second Friday in May in
Tennessee; June 3 in Louisiana. [U. S.]

MEMORIALIST
Me*mo"ri*al*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mémorialiste.]

Defn: One who writes or signs a memorial.

MEMORIALIZE
Me*mo"ri*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Memorialized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Memorializing.]

Defn: To address or petition by a memorial; to present a memorial to;
as, to memorialize the legislature. T. Hook.

MEMORIALIZER
Me*mo"ri*al*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who petitions by a memorial. T. Hook.

MEMORIAL ROSE
Memorial rose.

Defn: A Japanese evergreen rose (Rosa wichuraiana) with creeping
branches, shining leaves, and single white flowers. It is often
planted in cemeteries.

MEMORIST
Mem"o*rist, n. Etym: [See Memorize.]

Defn: One who, or that which, causes to be remembered. [Obs.]

MEMORITER
Me*mor"i*ter, adv. Etym: [L., fr. memor mindful. See Memorable.]

Defn: By, or from, memory.

MEMORIZE
Mem"o*rize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Memorized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Memorizing.] Etym: [See Memory.]

1. To cause to be remembered ; hence, to record. [Obs.]
They neglect to memorize their conquest. Spenser.
They meant to . . . memorize another Golgotha. Shak.

2. To commit to memory; to learn by heart.

MEMORY
Mem"o*ry, n.; pl. Memories. Etym: [OE. memorie, OF. memoire, memorie,
F. mémoire, L. memoria, fr. memor mindful; cf. mora delay. Cf. Demur,
Martyr, Memoir, Remember.]

1. The faculty of the mind by which it retains the knowledge of
previous thoughts, impressions, or events.
Memory is the purveyor of reason. Rambler.

2. The reach and positiveness with which a person can remember; the
strength and trustworthiness of one's power to reach and represent or
to recall the past; as, his memory was never wrong.

3. The actual and distinct retention and recognition of past ideas in
the mind; remembrance; as, in memory of youth; memories of foreign
lands.

4. The time within which past events can be or are remembered; as,
within the memory of man.
And what, before thy memory, was done From the begining. Milton.

5. Something, or an aggregate of things, remembered; hence,
character, conduct, etc., as preserved in remembrance, history, or
tradition; posthumous fame; as, the war became only a memory.
The memory of the just is blessed. Prov. x. 7.
That ever-living man of memory, Henry the Fifth. Shak.
The Nonconformists . . . have, as a body, always venerated her
[Elizabeth's] memory. Macaulay.

6. A memorial. [Obs.]
These weeds are memories of those worser hours. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Memory, Remembrance, Recollection, Reminiscence. Memory is the
generic term, denoting the power by which we reproduce past
impressions. Remembrance is an exercise of that power when things
occur spontaneously to our thoughts. In recollection we make a
distinct effort to collect again, or call back, what we know has been
formerly in the mind. Reminiscence is intermediate between
remembrance and recollection, being a conscious process of recalling
past occurrences, but without that full and varied reference to
particular things which characterizes recollection. "When an idea
again recurs without the operation of the like object on the external
sensory, it is remembrance; if it be sought after by the mind, and
with pain and endeavor found, and brought again into view, it is
recollection." Locke. To draw to memory, to put on record; to record.
[Obs.] Chaucer. Gower.

MEMPHIAN
Mem"phi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ancient city of Memphis in Egypt;
hence, Egyptian; as, Memphian darkness.

MEM-SAHIB
Mem"-sa`hib, n. [Hind. mem-sahib; mem (fr. E. ma'am) + Ar. çahib
master. See Sahib.]

Defn: Lady; mistress; -- used by Hindustani-speaking natives in India
in addressing European women.

MEN
Men, n.,

Defn: pl. of Man.

MEN
Men, pron. Etym: [OE. me, men. "Not the plural of man, but a weakened
form of the word man itself." Skeat.]

Defn: A man; one; -- used with a verb in the singular, and
corresponding to the present indefinite one or they. [Obs.] Piers
Plowman.
Men moot give silver to the poure triars. Chaucer.
A privy thief, men clepeth death. Chaucer.

MENACCANITE
Me*nac"can*ite, n. Etym: [From Menaccan, in Cornwall, where it was
first found.] (Min.)

Defn: An iron-black or steel-gray mineral, consisting chiefly of the
oxides of iron and titanium. It is commonly massive, but occurs also
in rhombohedral crystals. Called also titanic iron ore, and ilmenite.

MENACE
Men"ace, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. minaciae threats, menaces, fr. minax, -
acis, projecting, threatening, minae projecting points or pinnacles,
threats. Cf. Amenable, Demean, Imminent, Minatory.]

Defn: The show of an intention to inflict evil; a threat or
threatening; indication of a probable evil or catastrophe to come.
His (the pope's) commands, his rebukes, his menaces. Milman.
The dark menace of the distant war. Dryden.

MENACE
Men"ace, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Menaced (ast); p. pr. & vb. n.
Menacing.] Etym: [OF. menacier, F. menacer. See Menace, n.]

1. To express or show an intention to inflict, or to hold out a
prospect of inflicting, evil or injury upon; to threaten; -- usually
followed by with before the harm threatened; as, to menace a country
with war.
My master . . . did menace me with death. Shak.

2. To threaten, as an evil to be inflicted.
By oath he menaced Revenge upon the cardinal. Shak.

MENACE
Men"ace, v. i.

Defn: To act in threatening manner; to wear a threatening aspect.
Who ever knew the heavens menace so Shak.

MENACER
Men"a*cer, n.

Defn: One who menaces.

MENACINGLY
Men"a*cing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a threatening manner.

MENAGE
Mé`nage", n.

Defn: See Manage.

MENAGE
Mé`nage", n. Etym: [See Menagerie.]

Defn: A collection of animals; a menagerie. [Obs.] Addison.

MENAGERIE
Men*ag"er*ie, n. Etym: [F. ménagerie, fr. ménager to keep house,
ménage household. See Menial, Mansion.]

1. A piace where animals are kept and trained.

2. A collection of wild or exotic animals, kept for exhibition.

MENAGOGUE
Men"a*gogue, n. Etym: [F. ménagogue, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Emmenagogue.

MENAION
Me*na"ion, n.; pl. Menaia (-yå). Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Eccl.)

Defn: A work of twelve volumes, each containing the offices in the
Greek Church for a month; also, each volume of the same. Shipley.

MENALD; MENILD
Men"ald, Men"ild, a.

Defn: Covered with spots; speckled; variegated. [Obs.]

MEND
Mend, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mended; p. pr. & vb. n. Mending.] Etym:
[Abbrev. fr. amend. See Amend.]

1. To repair, as anything that is torn, broken, defaced, decayed, or
the like; to restore from partial decay, injury, or defacement; to
patch up; to put in shape or order again; to re-create; as, to mend a
garment or a machine.

2. To alter for the better; to set right; to reform; hence, to
quicken; as, to mend one's manners or pace.
The best service they could do the state was to mend the lives of the
persons who composed it. Sir W. Temple.

3. To help, to advance, to further; to add to.
Though in some lands the grass is but short, yet it mends garden
herbs and fruit. Mortimer.
You mend the jewel by the wearing it. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To improve; help; better; emend; amend; correct; rectify; reform.

MEND
Mend, v. i.

Defn: To grow better; to advance to a better state; to become
improved. Shak.

MENDABLE
Mend"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being mended.

MENDACIOUS
Men*da"cious, a. Etym: [L. mendax, -acis, lying, cf. mentiri to lie.]

1. Given to deception or falsehood; lying; as, a mendacious person.

2. False; counterfeit; containing falsehood; as, a mendacious
statement.
 -- Men*da"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Men*da"cious*ness, n.

MENDACITY
Men*dac"i*ty, n.; pl. Mendacities. Etym: [L. mendacitas.]

1. The quality or state of being mendacious; a habit of lying.
Macaulay.

2. A falsehood; a lie. Sir T. Browne.

Syn.
 -- Lying; deceit; untruth; falsehood.

MENDELIAN
Men*de"li*an, a. [See Mendel's law.] (Biol.)

Defn: Pert. to Mendel, or to Mendel's law. -- Men*de"li*an*ism (#),
Men*del"ism (#), n.

MENDELIAN CHARACTER
Mendelian character. (Biol.)

Defn: A character which obeys Mendel's law in regard to its
hereditary transmission.

MENDEL'S LAW
Men"del's law.

Defn: A principle governing the inheritance of many characters in
animals and plants, discovered by Gregor J. Mendel (Austrian
Augustinian abbot, 1822-84) in breeding experiments with peas. He
showed that the height, color, and other characters depend on the
presence of determinating factors behaving as units. In any given
germ cell each of these is either present or absent. The following
example (using letters as symbols of the determining factors and
hence also of the individuals possessing them) shows the operation of
the law: Tallness being due to a factor T, a tall plant, arising by
the union in fertilization of two germ cells both bearing this
factor, is TT; a dwarf, being without T, is tt. Crossing these,
crossbreeds, Tt, result (called generation F1). In the formation of
the germ cells of these crossbreeds a process of segregation occurs
such that germ cells, whether male or female, are produced of two
kinds, T and t, in equal numbers. The T cells bear the factor
"tallness," the t cells are devoid of it. The offspring, generation
F2, which arise from the chance union of these germ cells in pairs,
according to the law of probability, are therefore on an average in
the following proportions:

1 TT : 2 Tt : 1 tt;

and thus plants pure in tallness (TT) and dwarfness (tt), as well as
crossbreeds (Tt), are formed by the interbreeding of crossbreeds.
Frequently, as in this example, owning to what is called the
dominance of a factor, the operation of Mendel's law may be
complicated by the fact that when a dominant factor (as T) occurs
with its allelomorph (as t), called recessive, in the crossbreed Tt,
the individual Tt is itself indistinguishable from the pure form TT.
Generation F1, containing only the Tt form, consists entirely of
dominants (tall plants) and generation F2 consists of three dominants
(2 Tt, 1 TT) to one dwarf (tt), which, displaying the feature
suppressed in F1, is called recessive. Such qualitative and numerical
regularity has been proved to exist in regard to very diverse
qualities or characters which compose living things, both wild and
domesticated, such as colors of flowers, of hair or eyes, patterns,
structure, chemical composition, and power of resisting certain
diseases. The diversity of forms produced in crossbreeding by
horticulturists and fanciers generally results from a process of
analytical variation or recombination of the factors composing the
parental types. Purity of type consequently acquires a specific
meaning. An individual is pure in respect of a given character when
it results from the union of two sexual cells both bearing that
character, or both without it.

MENDER
Mend"er, n.

Defn: One who mends or repairs.

MENDIANT
Men"di*ant, n.

Defn: See Mendinant. [Obs.]

MENDICANCY
Men"di*can*cy, n.

Defn: The condition of being mendicant; beggary; begging. Burke.

MENDICANT
Men"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. mendicans, -antis, p. pr. of mendicare to
beg, fr. mendicus beggar, indigent.]

Defn: Practicing beggary; begging; living on alms; as, mendicant
friars. Mendicant orders (R. C. Ch.), certain monastic orders which
are forbidden to acquire landed property and are required to be
supported by alms, esp. the Franciscans, the Dominicans, the
Carmelites, and the Augustinians.

MENDICANT
Men"di*cant, n.

Defn: A beggar; esp., one who makes a business of begging;
specifically, a begging friar.

MENDICATE
Men"di*cate, v. t.& i. Etym: [L. mendicatus, p. p. of mendicare to
beg.]

Defn: To beg. [R.] Johnson.

MENDICATION
Men`di*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act or practice of begging; beggary; mendicancy. Sir T.
Browne.

MENDICITY
Men*dic"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. mendicitas: cf. F. mendicité. See
Mendicant.]

Defn: The practice of begging; the life of a beggar; mendicancy. Rom.
of R.

MENDINANT
Men"di*nant, n.

Defn: A mendicant or begging friar. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MENDMENT
Mend"ment, n.

Defn: Amendment. [Obs.]

MENDOLE
Men"dole, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mendol, mendole.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cackerel.

MENDREGAL
Men"dre*gal, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Medregal.

MENDS
Mends, n.

Defn: See Amends. [Obs.] Shak.

MENGE
Menge, v. i. [imp. Mente, Meinte; p. p. Ment, Meint.] Etym: [See
Mingle.]

Defn: To mix. [Obs.] Spenser.

MENHADEN
Men*ha"den, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American marine fish of the Herring familt (Brevoortia
tyrannus), chiefly valuable for its oil and as a component of
fertilizers; -- called also mossbunker, bony fish, chebog, pogy,
hardhead, whitefish, etc.

MENHIR
Men"hir, n. Etym: [F. Armor. men stone + hir high.]

Defn: A large stone set upright in olden times as a memorial or
monument. Many, of unknown date, are found in Brittany and throughout
Northern Europe.

MENIAL
Men"ial, a. Etym: [OE. meneal, fr. meine, maine, household, OF.
maisniée, maisnie, LL. mansionaticum. See Mansion, and cf. Meine, n.,
Meiny.]

1. Belonging to a retinue or train of servants; performing servile
office; serving.
Two menial dogs before their master pressed. Dryden.

2. Pertaining to servants, esp. domestic servants; servile; low;
mean. " Menial offices." Swift.

MENIAL
Men"ial, n.

1. A domestic servant or retainer, esp. one of humble rank; one
employed in low or servile offices.

2. A person of a servile character or disposition.

MENIERE'S DISEASE
Mé`nière's" dis*ease". (Med.)

Defn: A disease characterized by deafness and vertigo, resulting in
incoördination of movement. It is supposed to depend upon a morbid
condition of the semicircular canals of the internal ear. Named after
Ménière, a French physician.

MENILITE
Men"i*lite, n. Etym: [F. ménilite; -- so called because it is found
at Ménilmontant, near Paris.] (Min.)

Defn: See Opal.

MENINGEAL
Me*nin"ge*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the meninges.

MENINGES
Me*nin"ges, n. pl.; sing. Meninx (. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The three membranes that envelop the brain and spinal cord; the
pia mater, dura mater, and arachnoid membrane.

MENINGITIS
Men`in*gi"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Meninges, and -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the membranes of the brain or spinal cord.
Cerebro-spinal meningitis. See under Cerebro-spinal.

MENISCAL
Me*nis"cal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or having the form of, a meniscus.

MENISCOID
Me*nis"coid, a. Etym: [Meniscus + -oid.]

Defn: Concavo-convex, like a meniscus.

MENISCUS
Me*nis"cus, n.; pl. L. Menisci (-si), E. Meniscuses. Etym: [NL., from
Gr. mh`nh the moon.]

1. A crescent.

2. (Opt.)

Defn: A lens convex on one side and concave on the other.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: An interarticular synovial cartilage or membrane; esp., one of
the intervertebral synovial disks in some parts of the vertebral
column of birds. Converging meniscus, Diverging meniscus. See Lens.

MENISPERMACEOUS
Men`i*sper*ma"ceous, a. Etym: [Gr. mh`nh the moon + spe`rma seed.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to a natural order (Menispermaceæ) of climbing
plants of which moonseed (Menispermum) is the type.

MENISPERMIC
Men`i*sper"mic (, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, moonseed (Menispermum), or
other plants of the same family, as the Anamirta Cocculus.

MENISPERMINE
Men`i*sper"mine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ménispermine.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid distinct from picrotoxin and obtained from the
cocculus indicus (the fruit of Anamirta Cocculus, formerly
Menispermum Cocculus) as a white, crystalline, tasteless powder; --
called also menispermina.

MENIVER
Men"i*ver, n. Etym: [OF. menuver, menuveir, menuvair, a grayish fur;
menu small + vair a kind of fur. See Minute, a., and Vair.]

Defn: Same as Miniver.

MENNONIST; MENNONITE
Men"non*ist, Men"non*ite, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a small denomination of Christians, so called from Menno
Simons of Friesland, their founder. They believe that the New
Testament is the only rule of faith, that there is no original sin,
that infants should not be baptized, and that Christians ought not to
take oath, hold office, or render military service.

MENOBRANCH; MENOBRANCHUS
Men"o*branch, Men`o*bran"chus, n. Etym: [NL. menobranchus, fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A large aquatic American salamander of the genus Necturus,
having permanent external gills.

MENOLOGIUM; MENOLOGY
Men`o*lo"gi*um, Me*nol"o*gy, n.; pl. L. Menologia, E. Menologies.
Etym: [NL. menologium, fr. Gr. ménologe.]

1. A register of months. Bp. Stillingfleet.

2. (Gr. Church)

Defn: A brief calendar of the lives of the saints for each day in the
year, or a simple remembrance of those whose lives are not written.

MENOPAUSE
Men"o*pause, n. Etym: [Gr. Menses.] (Med.)

Defn: The period of natural cessation of menstruation. See Change of
life, under Change.

MENOPOMA; MENOPOME
Men`o*po"ma, Men"o*pome, n. Etym: [NL. menopoma, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hellbender.

MENORRHAGIA
Men`or*rha"gi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)
(a) Profuse menstruation.
(b) Any profuse bleeding from the uterus; Metrorrhagia.

MENOSTASIS
Me*nos"ta*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. mh`n month + 'istan`nai to
stop.] (Med.)

Defn: Stoppage of the mences.

MENOSTATION
Men`os*ta"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Menostasis.

MENOW
Men"ow, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A minnow.

MEN-PLEASER
Men"-pleas`er, n.

Defn: One whose motive is to please men or the world, rather than
God. Eph. vi. 6.

MENSAL
Men"sal, a. Etym: [L. mensalis, fr. mensa table.]

Defn: Belonging to the table; transacted at table; as, mensa
conversation.

MENSAL
Men"sal, a. Etym: [L. mensis month.]

Defn: Occurring once in a month; monthly.

MENSE
Mense, n. Etym: [OE. menske, AS. mennisc human, man. See Man.]

Defn: Manliness; dignity; comeliness; civility. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
-- Mense"ful, a.
 -- Mense"less, a.

MENSE
Mense, v. t.

Defn: To grace. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

MENSES
Men"ses, n. pl. Etym: [L. mensis month, pl. menses months, and the
monthly courses of women. Cf. Month.] (Med.)

Defn: The catamenial or menstrual discharge, a periodic flow of blood
or bloody fluid from the uterus or female generative organs.

MENSTRUAL
Men"stru*al, a. Etym: [L. menstrualis: cf. F. menstruel. See
Menstruous.]

1. Recurring once a month; monthly; gone through in a month; as, the
menstrual revolution of the moon; pertaining to monthly changes; as,
the menstrual equation of the sun's place.

2. Of or pertaining to the menses; as, menstrual discharges; the
menstrual period.

3. Of or pertaining to a menstruum. Bacon.

MENSTRUANT
Men"stru*ant, a. Etym: [L. menstruans, p. pr. of menstruare to have a
monthly term, fr. menstruus. See Menstruous.]

Defn: Subject to monthly flowing or menses.

MENSTRUATE
Men"stru*ate, a.

Defn: Menstruous. [Obs.]

MENSTRUATE
Men"stru*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Menstruated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Menstruating.]

Defn: To discharge the menses; to have the catamenial flow.

MENSTRUATION
Men`stru*a"tion, n.

Defn: The discharge of the menses; also, the state or the period of
menstruating.

MENSTRUE
Men"strue, n. Etym: [Cf. F. menstrues. See Menstruous.]

Defn: The menstrual flux; menses. [Obs.]

MENSTRUOUS
Men"stru*ous, a. Etym: [L. menstruus, fr. mensis month. Cf.
Menstruum.]

1. Having the monthly flow or discharge; menstruating.

2. Of or pertaining tj the monthly flow; catamenial.

MENSTRUUM
Men"stru*um, n.; pl. E. Menstruums, L. Menstrua. Etym: [L. menstruus.
See Menstruous.]

Defn: Any substance which dissolves a solid body; a solvent.
The proper menstruum to dissolve metal. Bacon.
All liquors are called menstruums which are used as dissolvents, or
to extract the virtues of ingredients by infusion or decoction.
Quincy.

Note: The use is supposed to have originated in some notion of the
old chemists about the influence of the moon in the preparation of
dissolvents. Johnson.

MENSURABILITY
Men`su*ra*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mensurabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being mensurable.

MENSURABLE
Men"su*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. mensurabilis, fr. mensurare to measure,
fr. mensura measure: cf. F. mensurable. See Measurable, Measure.]

Defn: Capable of being measured; measurable.

MENSURABLENESS
Men"su*ra*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being mensurable; measurableness.

MENSURAL
Men"su*ral, a. Etym: [L. mensuralis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to measure.

MENSURATE
Men"su*rate, v. t. Etym: [L. mensuratus, p. p. of mensurare. See
Measure, v.]

Defn: To measure. [Obs.]

MENSURATION
Men`su*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. mensuratio : cf. F. mensuration.]

1. The act, process, or art, of measuring.

2. That branch of applied geometry which gives rules for finding the
length of lines, the areas of surfaces, or the volumes of solids,
from certain simple data of lines and angles.

-MENT
-ment, Etym: [F. -ment, L. -mentum.]

Defn: A suffix denoting that which does a thing; an act or process;
the result of an act or process; state or condition; as, aliment,
that which nourishes, ornament, increment; fragment, piece broken,
segment; abridgment, act of abridging, imprisonment, movement,
adjournment; amazement, state of being amazed, astonishment.

MENT
Ment, p. p.

Defn: of Menge.

MENTAGRA
Men"ta*gra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. mentum chin + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Sycosis.

MENTAL
Men"tal, a. Etym: [L. mentum the chin.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the chin; genian; as, the mental nerve; the
mental region.

MENTAL
Men"tal, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A plate or scale covering the mentum or chin of a fish or
reptile.

MENTAL
Men"tal, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. mentalis, fr. mens, mentis, the mind;
akin to E. mind. See Mind.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the mind; intellectual; as, mental
faculties; mental operations, conditions, or exercise.
What a mental power This eye shoots forth! Shak.
Mental alienation, insanity.
 -- Mental arithmetic, the art or practice of solving arithmetical
problems by mental processes, unassisted by written figures.

MENTALITY
Men*tal"i*ty, n.

Defn: Quality or state of mind. "The same hard mentality." Emerson.

MENTALLY
Men"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: In the mind; in thought or meditation; intellectually; in idea.

MENTHA
Men"tha, n. Etym: [L. See Mint the plant.] (Bot.)

Defn: A widely distributed genus of fragrant herbs, including the
peppermint, spearmint, etc. The plants have small flowers, usually
arranged in dense axillary clusters.

MENTHENE
Men"thene, n. Etym: [Menthol + terpene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless liquid hydrocarbon resembling oil of turpentine,
obtained by dehydrating menthol. It has an agreeable odor and a
cooling taste.

MENTHOL
Men"thol, n. Etym: [Mentha + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, aromatic substance resembling camphor,
extracted from oil of peppermint (Mentha); -- called also mint
camphor or peppermint camphor.

MENTHYL
Men"thyl, n. Etym: [Mentha + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound radical forming the base of menthol.

MENTICULTURAL
Men`ti*cul"tur*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to mental culture; serving to improve or
strengthen the mind. [R.]

MENTION
Men"tion, n. Etym: [OE. mencioun, F. mention, L. mentio, from the
root of meminisse to remember. See Mind.]

Defn: A speaking or notice of anything, -- usually in a brief or
cursory manner. Used especially in the phrase to make mention of.
I will make mention of thy righteousness. Ps. lxxi. 16.
And sleep in dull, cold marble, where no mention Of me more must be
heard of. Shak.

MENTION
Men"tion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mentioned; p. pr. & vb. n. Mentioning.]
Etym: [Cf. F. mentionner.]

Defn: To make mention of; to speak briefly of; to name.
I will mention the loving-kindnesses of the Lord. Is. lxiii. 7.

MENTIONABLE
Men"tion*a*ble, a.

Defn: Fit to be mentioned.

MENTOMECKELIAN
Men`to*meck*e"li*an, a. Etym: [1st mental + Meckelian.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the chin and lower jaw.
 -- n.

Defn: The bone or cartilage forming the anterior extremity of the
lower jaw in some adult animals and the young of others.

MENTOR
Men"tor, n. Etym: [From Mentor, the counselor of Telemachus, Gr.
Monitor.]

Defn: A wise and faithful counselor or monitor.

MENTORIAL
Men*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [From Mentor.]

Defn: Containing advice or admonition.

MENTUM
Men"tum, n. Etym: [L., chin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The front median plate of the labium in insects. See Labium.

MENU
Me*nu", n. Etym: [F., slender, thin, minute. See 4th Minute.]

Defn: The details of a banquet; a bill of fare.

MENUSE
Me"nuse, v. i.

Defn: See Amenuse. [Obs.]

MEOW
Me*ow", v. i. & n.

Defn: See 6th and 7th Mew.

MEPHISTOPHELIAN
Meph`is*to*phe"li*an ( or ), a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the devil Mephistopheles, "a
crafty, scoffing, relentless fiend;" devilish; crafty.

MEPHITIC; MEPHITICAL
Me*phit"ic, Me*phit"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. mephiticus, fr. mephitis
mephitis: cf. F. méphitique.]

1. Tending to destroy life; poisonous; noxious; as, mephitic
exhalations; mephitic regions.

2. Offensive to the smell; as, mephitic odors. Mephitic air (Chem.),
carbon dioxide; -- so called because of its deadly suffocating power.
See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.

MEPHITIS
Me*phi"tis, n. Etym: [L. mephitis : cf. F. méphitis.]

1. Noxious, pestilential, or foul exhalations from decomposing
substances, filth, or other source.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of mammals, including the skunks.

MEPHITISM
Meph"i*tism, n.

Defn: Same as Mephitis, 1.

MERACIOUS
Me*ra"cious, a. Etym: [L. meracus, fr. merus pure, inmixed.]

Defn: Being without mixture or adulteration; hence, strong; racy.
[Obs.]

MERCABLE
Mer"ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. mercabilis, fr. mercari to trade, traffic,
buy. See Merchant.]

Defn: Capable of being bought or sold. [Obs.]

MERCANTILE
Mer"can*tile, a. Etym: [F. mercantile, It. mercantile, fr. L.
mercans, -antis, p. pr. of mercari to traffic. See Merchant.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to merchants, or the business of merchants;
having to do with trade, or the buying and selling of commodities;
commercial.
The expedition of the Argonauts was partly mercantile, partly
military. Arbuthnot.
Mercantile agency, an agency for procuring information of the
standing and credit of merchants in different parts of the country,
for the use of dealers who sell to them.
 -- Mercantile marine, the persons and vessels employed in commerce,
taken collectively.
 -- Mercantile paper, the notes or acceptances given by merchants for
goods bought, or received on consignment; drafts on merchants for
goods sold or consigned. McElrath.

Syn.
 -- Mercantile, Commercial. Commercial is the wider term, being
sometimes used to embrace mercantile. In their stricter use,
commercial relates to the shipping, freighting, forwarding, and other
business connected with the commerce of a country (whether external
or internal), that is, the exchange of commodities; while mercantile
applies to the sale of merchandise and goods when brought to market.
As the two employments are to some extent intermingled, the two words
are often interchanged.

MERCAPTAL
Mer*cap"tal, n. Etym: [Mercaptan + aldehyde.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of compounds of mercaptans with aldehydes.

MERCAPTAN
Mer*cap"tan, n. Etym: [F., fr. NL. mercurius mercury + L. captans, p.
pr. of captare to seize, v. intens. fr. capere.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of series of compounds, hydrosulphides of alcohol
radicals, in composition resembling the alcohols, but containing
sulphur in place of oxygen, and hence called also the sulphur
alcohols. In general, they are colorless liquids having a strong,
repulsive, garlic odor. The name is specifically applied to ethyl
mercaptan, C2H5SH. So called from its avidity for mercury, and other
metals.

MERCAPTIDE
Mer*cap"tide ( or ), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of mercaptan formed by replacing its sulphur
hydrogen by a metal; as, potassium mercaptide, C2H5SK.

MERCAT
Mer"cat, n. Etym: [L. mercatus : cf. It. mercato. See Market.]

Defn: Market; trade. [Obs.] Bp. Sprat.

MERCATANTE
Mer`ca*tan"te (; It. ), n. Etym: [It. See Merchant.]

Defn: A foreign trader. [Obs.] Shak.

MERCATOR'S CHART
Mer*ca"tor's chart".

Defn: See under Chart, and see Mercator's projection, under
Projection.

MERCATURE
Mer"ca*ture, n. Etym: [L. mercatura commerce.]

Defn: Commerce; traffic; trade. [Obs.]

MERCE
Merce, v. t. Etym: [See Amerce.]

Defn: To subject to fine or amercement; to mulct; to amerce. [Obs.]

MERCENARIA
Mer`ce*na"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Mercenary.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The quahog.

MERCENARIAN
Mer`ce*na"ri*an (-an), n.

Defn: A mercenary. [Obs.]

MERCENARILY
Mer"ce*na`ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mercenary manner.

MERCENARINESS
Mer"ce*na*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being mercenary; venality. Boyle.

MERCENARY
Mer"ce*na*ry, a. Etym: [OE. mercenarie, F. mercenaire, fr. L.
mercenarius, fr. merces wages, reward. See Mercy.]

1. Acting for reward; serving for pay; paid; hired; hireling; venal;
as, mercenary soldiers.

2. Hence: Moved by considerations of pay or profit; greedy of gain;
sordid; selfish. Shak.
For God forbid I should my papers blot With mercenary lines, with
servile pen. Daniel.

Syn.
 -- See Venal.

MERCENARY
Mer"ce*na*ry, n.; pl. Mercenaries (.

Defn: One who is hired; a hireling; especially, a soldier hired into
foreign service. Milman.

MERCER
Mer"cer, n. Etym: [F. mercier, fr. L. merx, mercis, wares,
merchandise. See Merchant.]

Defn: Originally, a dealer in any kind of goods or wares; now
restricted to a dealer in textile fabrics, as silks or woolens.
[Eng.]

MERCERIZE
Mer"cer*ize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -ized; p. pr. & vb. n. -izing.]
[From (John) Mercer (1791-1866), an English calico printer who
introduced the process + -ize.]

Defn: To treat (cotton fiber or fabrics) with a solution of caustic
alkali. Such treatment causes the fiber to shrink in length and
become stronger and more receptive of dyes. If the yarn or cloth is
kept under tension during the process, it assumes a silky luster. --
Mer`cer*i*za"tion (#), n.

MERCERSHIP
Mer"cer*ship, n.

Defn: The business of a mercer.

MERCERY
Mer"cer*y, n. Etym: [F. mercerie.]

Defn: The trade of mercers; the goods in which a mercer deals.

MERCHAND
Mer"chand, v. i. Etym: [F. marchander. See Merchant.]

Defn: To traffic. [Obs.] Bacon.

MERCHANDISABLE
Mer"chan*di`sa*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be used or transferred as merchandise.

MERCHANDISE
Mer"chan*dise, n. Etym: [F. marchandise, OF. marcheandise.]

1. The objects of commerce; whatever is usually bought or sold in
trade, or market, or by merchants; wares; goods; commodities.
Spenser.

2. The act or business of trading; trade; traffic.

MERCHANDISE
Mer"chan*dise, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Merchandised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Merchandising.]

Defn: To trade; to carry on commerce. Bacon.

MERCHANDISE
Mer"chan*dise, v. t.

Defn: To make merchandise of; to buy and sell. "Love is
merchandised." Shak.

MERCHANDISER
Mer"chan*di`ser, n.

Defn: A trader. Bunyan.

MERCHANDRY
Mer"chand*ry, n. Etym: [See Merchant.]

Defn: Trade; commerce. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson.

MERCHANT
Mer"chant, n. Etym: [OE. marchant, OF. marcheant, F. marchand, fr.
LL. mercatans, -antis, p. pr. of mercatare to negotiate, L. mercari
to traffic, fr. merx, mercis, wares. See Market, Merit, and cf.
Commerce.]

1. One who traffics on a large scale, especially with foreign
countries; a trafficker; a trader.
Others, like merchants, venture trade abroad. Shak.

2. A trading vessel; a merchantman. [Obs.] Shak.

3. One who keeps a store or shop for the sale of goods; a shopkeeper.
[U. S. & Scot.]

MERCHANT
Mer"chant, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or employed in, trade or merchandise; as,
the merchant service. Merchant bar, Merchant iron or steel, certain
common sizes of wrought iron and steel bars.
 -- Merchant service, the mercantile marine of a country. Am. Cyc.
 -- Merchant ship, a ship employed in commerce.
 -- Merchant tailor, a tailor who keeps and sells materials for the
garments which he makes.

MERCHANT
Mer"chant, v. i.

Defn: To be a merchant; to trade. [Obs.]

MERCHANTABLE
Mer"chant*a*ble, a.

Defn: Fit for market; such as is usually sold in market, or such as
will bring the ordinary price; as, merchantable wheat; sometimes, a
technical designation for a particular kind or class.

MERCHANTLY
Mer"chant*ly, a.

Defn: Merchantlike; suitable to the character or business of a
merchant. [Obs.] Gauden.

MERCHANTMAN
Mer"chant*man, n.; pl. Merchantmen (.

1. A merchant. [Obs.] Matt. xiii. 45.

2. A trading vessel; a ship employed in the transportation of goods,
as, distinguished from a man-of-war.

MERCHANTRY
Mer"chant*ry, n.

1. The body of merchants taken collectively; as, the merchantry of a
country.

2. The business of a merchant; merchandise. Walpole.

MERCIABLE
Mer"ci*a*ble, a. Etym: [OF.]

Defn: Merciful. [Obs.]

MERCIFUL
Mer"ci*ful, a. Etym: [Mercy + -ful.]

1. Full of mercy; having or exercising mercy; disposed to pity and
spare offenders; unwilling to punish.
The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious. Ex. xxxiv. 6.
Be merciful, great duke, to men of mold. Shak.

2. Unwilling to give pain; compassionate.
A merciful man will be merciful to his beast. Old Proverb.

Syn.
 -- Compassionate; tender; humane; gracious; kind; mild; clement;
benignant.
 -- Mer"ci*ful*ly, adv.
 -- Mer"ci*ful*ness, n.

MERCIFY
Mer"ci*fy, v. t.

Defn: To pity. [Obs.] Spenser.

MERCILESS
Mer"ci*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of mercy; cruel; unsparing; -- said of animate
beings, and also, figuratively, of things; as, a merciless tyrant;
merciless waves.
The foe is merciless, and will not pity. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Cruel; unmerciful; remorseless; ruthless; pitiless; barbarous;
savage.
 -- Mer"ci*less*ly, adv.
 -- Mer"ci*less*ness, n.

MERCURAMMONIUM
Mer`cur*am*mo"ni*um, n. Etym: [Mercuric + ammonium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A radical regarded as derived from ammonium by the substitution
of mercury for a portion of the hydrogen.

MERCURIAL
Mer*cu"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. mercurialis, fr. Mercurius Mercury: cf. F.
mercuriel.]

1. Having the qualities fabled to belong to the god Mercury; swift;
active; sprightly; fickle; volatile; changeable; as, a mercurial
youth; a mercurial temperament.
A mercurial man Who fluttered over all things like a fan. Byron.

2. Having the form or image of Mercury; -- applied to ancient
guideposts. [Obs.] Chillingworth.

3. Of or pertaining to Mercury as the god of trade; hence, money-
making; crafty.
The mercurial wand of commerce. J. Q. Adams.

4. Of or pertaining to, or containing, mercury; as, mercurial
preparations, barometer. See Mercury, 2.

5. (Med.)

Defn: Caused by the use of mercury; as, mercurial sore mouth.

MERCURIAL
Mer*cu"ri*al, n.

1. A person having mercurial qualities. Bacon.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A preparation containing mercury.

MERCURIALISM
Mer*cu"ri*al*ism, n. [Mercurial + -ism.] (Med.)

Defn: The morbid condition produced by the excessive use of mercury,
or by exposure to its fumes, as in mining or smelting.

MERCURIALIST
Mer*cu"ri*al*ist, n.

1. One under the influence of Mercury; one resembling Mercury in
character.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A physician who uses much mercury, in any of its forms, in his
practice.

MERCURIALIZE
Mer*cu"ri*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mercurialized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mercurializing.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: To affect with mercury.

2. (Photography)

Defn: To treat with mercury; to expose to the vapor of mercury.

MERCURIALIZE
Mer*cu"ri*al*ize, v. i.

Defn: To be sprightly, fantastic, or capricious. [Obs.]

MERCURIALLY
Mer*cu"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mercurial manner.

MERCURIC
Mer*cu"ric, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mercury; containing
mercury; -- said of those compounds of mercury into which this
element enters in its lowest proportion. Mercuric chloride, corrosive
sublimate. See Corrosive.

MERCURIFICATION
Mer*cu`ri*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mercurification. See
Mercurify.]

1. (Metal.)

Defn: The process or operation of obtaining the mercury, in its fluid
form, from mercuric minerals.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process of compounding, or the state of being
compounded, with mercury. [R.]

MERCURIFY
Mer*cu"ri*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mercurified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mercurifying.] Etym: [Mercury + -fy.]

1. To obtain mercury from, as mercuric minerals, which may be done by
any application of intense heat that expels the mercury in fumes,
which are afterward condensed. [R.]

2. To combine or mingle mercury with; to impregnate with mercury; to
mercurialize. [R.]

MERCURISM
Mer"cu*rism, n.

Defn: A communication of news; an announcement. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

MERCUROUS
Mer*cu"rous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mercury; containing
mercury; -- said of those compounds of mercury in which it is present
in its highest proportion. Mercurous chloride. (Chem.) See Calomel.

MERCURY
Mer"cu*ry, n. Etym: [L. Mercurius; akin to merx wares.]

1. (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: A Latin god of commerce and gain; -- treated by the poets as
identical with the Greek Hermes, messenger of the gods, conductor of
souls to the lower world, and god of eloquence.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A metallic element mostly obtained by reduction from cinnabar,
one of its ores. It is a heavy, opaque, glistening liquid (commonly
called quicksilver), and is used in barometers, thermometers, ect.
Specific gravity 13.6. Symbol Hg (Hydrargyrum). Atomic weight 199.8.
Mercury has a molecule which consists of only one atom. It was named
by the alchemists after the god Mercury, and designated by his
symbol, mercury.

Note: Mercury forms alloys, called amalgams, with many metals, and is
thus used in applying tin foil to the backs of mirrors, and in
extracting gold and silver from their ores. It is poisonous, and is
used in medicine in the free state as in blue pill, and in its
compounds as calomel, corrosive sublimate, etc. It is the only metal
which is liquid at ordinary temperatures, and it solidifies at about
-39º Centigrade to a soft, malleable, ductile metal.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the planets of the solar system, being the one nearest
the sun, from which its mean distance is about 36,000,000 miles. Its
period is 88 days, and its diameter 3,000 miles.

4. A carrier of tidings; a newsboy; a messenger; hence, also, a
newspaper. Sir J. Stephen. "The monthly Mercuries." Macaulay.

5. Sprightly or mercurial quality; spirit; mutability; fickleness.
[Obs.]
He was so full of mercury that he could not fix long in any
friendship, or to any design. Bp. Burnet.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Mercurialis annua), of the Spurge family, the leaves
of which are sometimes used for spinach, in Europe.

Note: The name is also applied, in the United States, to certain
climbing plants, some of which are poisonous to the skin, esp. to the
Rhus Toxicodendron, or poison ivy. Dog's mercury (Bot.), Mercurialis
perennis, a perennial plant differing from M. annua by having the
leaves sessile.
 -- English mercury (Bot.), a kind of goosefoot formerly used as a
pot herb; -- called Good King Henry.
 -- Horn mercury (Min.), a mineral chloride of mercury, having a
semitranslucent, hornlike appearance.

MERCURY
Mer"cu*ry, v. t.

Defn: To wash with a preparation of mercury. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

MERCY
Mer"cy, n.; pl. Mercies. Etym: [OE. merci, F. merci, L. merces,
mercedis, hire, pay, reward, LL., equiv. to misericordia pity, mercy.
L. merces is probmerere to deserve, acquire. See Merit, and cf.
Amerce.]

1. Forbearance to inflict harm under circumstances of provocation,
when one has the power to inflict it; compassionate treatment of an
offender or adversary; clemency.
Examples of justice must be made for terror to some; examples of
mercy for comfort to others. Bacon.

2. Compassionate treatment of the unfortunate and helpless;
sometimes, favor, beneficence. Luke x. 37.

3. Disposition to exercise compassion or favor; pity; compassion;
willingness to spare or to help.
In whom mercy lacketh and is not founden. Sir T. Elyot.

4. A blessing regarded as a manifestation of compassion or favor.
The Father of mercies and the God of all comfort. 2 Cor. i. 3.
Mercy seat (Bib.), the golden cover or lid of the Ark of the
Covenant. See Ark, 2.
 -- Sisters of Mercy (R. C. Ch.),a religious order founded in Dublin
in the year 1827. Communities of the same name have since been
established in various American cities. The duties of those belonging
to the order are, to attend lying-in hospitals, to superintend the
education of girls, and protect decent women out of employment, to
visit prisoners and the sick, and to attend persons condemned to
death.
 -- To be at the mercy of, to be wholly in the power of.

Syn.
 -- See Grace.

MERD
Merd, n. Etym: [F. merde, L. merda.]

Defn: Ordure; dung. [Obs.] Burton.

-MERE
-mere. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form meaning part, portion; as, blastomere,
epimere.

MERE
Mere, n. Etym: [Written also mar.] Etym: [OE. mere, AS. mere mere,
sea; akin to D. meer lake, OS. meri sea, OHG. meri, mari, G. meer,
Icel. marr, Goth. marei, Russ. more, W. mor, Ir. & Gael. muir, L.
mare, and perh. to L. mori to die, and meaning originally, that which
is dead, a waste. Cf. Mortal, Marine, Marsh, Mermaid, Moor.]

Defn: A pool or lake. Drayton. Tennyson.

MERE
Mere, n. Etym: [Written also meer and mear.] Etym: [AS. gemære. sq.
root269.]

Defn: A boundary. Bacon.

MERE
Mere, v. t.

Defn: To divide, limit, or bound. [Obs.]
Which meared her rule with Africa. Spenser.

MERE
Mere, n.

Defn: A mare. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MERE
Mere, a. [Superl. Merest. The comparative is rarely or never used.]
Etym: [L. merus.]

1. Unmixed; pure; entire; absolute; unqualified.
Then entered they the mere, main sea. Chapman.
The sorrows of this world would be mere and unmixed. Jer. Taylor.

2. Only this, and nothing else; such, and no more; simple; bare; as,
a mere boy; a mere form.
From mere success nothing can be concluded in favor of any nation.
Atterbury.

MERELY
Mere"ly, adv.

1. Purely; unmixedly; absolutely.
Ulysses was to force forth his access, Though merely naked. Chapman.

2. Not otherwise than; simply; barely; only.
Prize not your life for other ends Than merely to obige your friends.
Swift.

Syn.
 -- Solely; simply; purely; barely; scarcely.

MERENCHYMA
Me*ren"chy*ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -enchyma, as in parenchyma.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Tissue composed of spheroidal cells.

MERESMAN
Meres"man, n.

Defn: An officer who ascertains meres or boundaries. [Eng.]

MERESTEAD
Mere"stead, n. Etym: [Mere boundary + stead place.]

Defn: The land within the boundaries of a farm; a farmstead or farm.
[Archaic.] Longfellow.

MERESTONE
Mere"stone`, n.

Defn: A stone designating a limit or boundary; a landmark. Bacon.

MERETRICIOUS
Mer`e*tri"cious, a. Etym: [L. meretricius, from meretrix, -icis, a
prostitute, lit., one who earns money, i. e., by prostitution, fr.
merere to earn, gain. See Merit.]

1. Of or pertaining to prostitutes; having to do with harlots;
lustful; as, meretricious traffic.

2. Resembling the arts of a harlot; alluring by false show; gaudily
and deceitfully ornamental; tawdry; as, meretricious dress or
ornaments.
 -- Mer`e*tri"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Mer`e*tri"cious*ness, n.

MERGANSER
Mer*gan"ser, n. Etym: [Sp. mergánsar, fr. mergo a diver (L. mergus,
fr. mergere to dip, dive) + ánsar goose, L. anser.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the genus Merganser, and allied genera. They are
allied to the ducks, but have a sharply serrated bill.

Note: The red-breasted merganser (Merganser serrator) inhabits both
hemispheres. It is called also sawbill, harle, and sheldrake. The
American merganser (M. Americanus.) and the hooded merganser
(Lophodytes cucullatus) are well-known species.
 -- White merganser, the smew or white nun.

MERGE
Merge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Merged; p. pr. & vb. n. Merging.] Etym:
[L. mergere, mersum. Cf. Emerge, Immerse, Marrow.]

Defn: To cause to be swallowed up; to immerse; to sink; to absorb.
To merge all natural ... sentiment in inordinate vanity. Burke.
Whig and Tory were merged and swallowed up in the transcendent duties
of patriots. De Quincey.

MERGE
Merge, v. i.

Defn: To be sunk, swallowed up, or lost.
Native irresolution had merged in stronger motives. I. Taylor.

MERGER
Mer"ger, n.

1. One who, or that which, merges.

2. (Law)

Defn: An absorption of one estate, or one contract, in another, or of
a minor offense in a greater.

MERICARP
Mer"i*carp, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: One carpel of an umbelliferous fruit. See Cremocarp.

MERIDE
Mer"ide ( or ), n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A permanent colony of cells or plastids which may remain
isolated, like Rotifer, or may multiply by gemmation to form higher
aggregates, termed zoides. Perrier.

MERIDIAN
Me*rid"i*an, a. Etym: [F. méridien, L. meridianus pertaining to noon,
fr. meridies noon, midday, for older medidies; medius mid, middle +
dies day. See Mid, and Diurnal.]

1. Being at, or pertaining to, midday; belonging to, or passing
through, the highest point attained by the sun in his diurnal course.
"Meridian hour." Milton.
Tables ... to find the altitude meridian. Chaucer.

2. Pertaining to the highest point or culmination; as, meridian
splendor.

MERIDIAN
Me*rid"i*an, n. Etym: [F. méridien. See Meridian, a.]

1. Midday; noon.

2. Hence: The highest point, as of success, prosperity, or the like;
culmination.
I have touched the highest point of all my greatness, And from that
full meridian of my glory I haste now to my setting. Shak.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: A great circle of the sphere passing through the poles of the
heavens and the zenith of a given place. It is crossed by the sun at
midday.

4. (Geog.)

Defn: A great circle on the surface of the earth, passing through the
poles and any given place; also, the half of such a circle included
between the poles.

Note: The planes of the geographical and astronomical meridians
coincide. Meridians, on a map or globe, are lines drawn at certain
intervals due north and south, or in the direction of the poles.
Calculated for, or fitted to, or adapted to, the meridian of, suited
to the local circumstances, capabilities, or special requirements of.
All other knowledge merely serves the concerns of this life, and is
fitted to the meridian thereof. Sir M. Hale.
-- First meridian, the meridian from which longitudes are reckoned.
The meridian of Greenwich is the one commonly employed in
calculations of longitude by geographers, and in actual practice,
although in various countries other and different meridians, chiefly
those which pass through the capitals of the countries, are
occasionally used; as, in France, the meridian of Paris; in the
United States, the meridian of Washington, etc.
 -- Guide meridian (Public Land Survey), a line, marked by monuments,
running North and South through a section of country between other
more carefully established meridians called principal meridians, used
for reference in surveying. [U.S.] -- Magnetic meridian, a great
circle, passing through the zenith and coinciding in direction with
the magnetic needle, or a line on the earth's surface having the same
direction.
 -- Meridian circle (Astron.), an instrument consisting of a
telescope attached to a large graduated circle and so mounted that
the telescope revolves like the transit instrument in a meridian
plane. By it the right ascension and the declination of a star may be
measured in a single observation.
 -- Meridian instrument (Astron.), any astronomical instrument having
a telescope that rotates in a meridian plane.
 -- Meridian of a globe, or Brass meridian, a graduated circular ring
of brass, in which the artificial globe is suspended and revolves.

MERIDIONAL
Me*rid"i*o*nal, a. Etym: [F. méridional, L. meridionalis, fr.
meridies midday. See Meridian.]

1. Of or pertaining to the meridian.

2. Having a southern aspect; southern; southerly.
Offices that require heat ... should be meridional. Sir H. Wotton.
Meridional distance, the distance or departure from the meridian; the
easting or westing.
 -- Meridional parts, parts of the meridian in Mercator's projection,
corresponding to each minute of latitude from the equator up to 70 or
80 degrees; tabulated numbers representing these parts used in
projecting charts, and in solving cases in Mercator's sailing.

MERIDIONALITY
Me*rid`i*o*nal"i*ty, n.

1. The state of being in the meridian.

2. Position in the south; aspect toward the south.

MERIDIONALLY
Me*rid"i*o*nal*ly, adv.

Defn: In the direction of the meridian.

MERILS
Mer"ils, n. Etym: [F. mérelle, marelle, marelles, LL. marella,
marrella. Cf. Morris the game.]

Defn: A boy's play, called also fivepenny morris. See Morris.

MERINGUE
Me`ringue" (F. ; E. ), n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A delicate pastry made of powdered sugar and the whites of eggs
whipped up, -- with jam or cream added.

MERINO
Me*ri"no, a. Etym: [Sp. merino moving from pasture to pasture, fr.
merino a royal judge and superintendent or inspector of sheep walks,
LL. merinus, fr. majorinus, i. e., major villmajor greater. See
Major. Merino sheep are driven at certain seasons from one part of
Spain to another, in large flocks, for pasturage.]

1. Of or pertaining to a variety of sheep with very fine wool,
originally bred in Spain.

2. Made of the wool of the merino sheep.

MERINO
Me*ri"no, n.; pl. Merinos. Etym: [Sp.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A breed of sheep originally from Spain, noted for the fineness
of its wool.

2. A fine fabric of merino wool.

MERISMATIC
Mer`is*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Dividing into cells or segments; characterized by separation
into two or more parts or sections by the formation of internal
partitions; as, merismatic growth, where one cell divides into many.

MERISTEM
Mer"i*stem, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A tissue of growing cells, or cells capable of further
division.

MERIT
Mer"it, n. Etym: [F. mérite, L. meritum, fr. merere, mereri, to
deserve, merit; prob. originally, to get a share; akin to Gr. Market,
Merchant, Mercer, Mercy.]

1. The quality or state of deserving well or ill; desert.
Here may men see how sin hath his merit. Chaucer.
Be it known, that we, the greatest, are misthought For things that
others do; and when we fall, We answer other's merits in our name.
Shak.

2. Esp. in a good sense: The quality or state of deserving well;
worth; excellence.
Reputation is ... oft got without merit, and lost without deserving.
Shak.
To him the wit of Greece and Rome was known, And every author's
merit, but his own. Pope.

3. Reward deserved; any mark or token of excellence or approbation;
as, his teacher gave him ten merits.
Those laurel groves, the merits of thy youth. Prior.

MERIT
Mer"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Merited; p. pr. & vb. n. Meriting.] Etym:
[F. mériter, L. meritare, v. intens. fr. merere. See Merit, n.]

1. To earn by service or performance; to have a right to claim as
reward; to deserve; sometimes, to deserve in a bad sense; as, to
merit punishment. "This kindness merits thanks." Shak.

2. To reward. [R. & Obs.] Chapman.

MERIT
Mer"it, v. i.

Defn: To acquire desert; to gain value; to receive benefit; to
profit. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

MERITABLE
Mer"it*a*ble, a.

Defn: Deserving of reward. [R.]

MERITEDLY
Mer"it*ed*ly, adv.

Defn: By merit; deservedly.

MERITHAL; MERITHALLUS
Mer"i*thal, Mer`i*thal"lus, n. Etym: [NL. merithallus, fr. Gr. or
(Bot.)

Defn: Same as Internode.

MERITMONGER
Mer"it*mon`ger, n.

Defn: One who depends on merit for salvation. [Obs.] Milner.

MERITORIOUS
Mer`i*to"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. meritorius that brings in money.]

Defn: Possessing merit; deserving of reward or honor; worthy of
recompense; valuable.
And meritorious shall that hand be called, Canonized, and worshiped
as a saint. Shak.
-- Mer`i*to"ri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Mer`i*to"ri*ous*ness, n.

MERITORY
Mer"i*to*ry, a.

Defn: Meritorious. [Obs.]

MERITOT
Mer"i*tot, n.

Defn: A play of children, in swinging on ropes, or the like, till
they are dizzy.

MERK
Merk, n. Etym: [See Marc.]

Defn: An old Scotch silver coin; a mark or marc. [Scot.]

MERK
Merk, n.

Defn: A mark; a sign. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MERKE
Merke, a.

Defn: Murky. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

MERKIN
Mer"kin, n.

Defn: Originally, a wig; afterwards, a mop for cleaning cannon.

MERL; MERLE
Merl, Merle, n. Etym: [F. merle, L. merula, merulus. Cf. Ousel.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The European blackbird. See Blackbird. Drayton.

MERLIN
Mer"lin, n. Etym: [OE. merlion, F. émerillon ; cf. OHG. smirl, G.
schmerl ; prob. fr. L. merula blackbird. Cf. Merle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European falcon (Falco lithofalco, or F. æsalon).

MERLING
Mer"ling, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European whiting.

MERLON
Mer"lon, n. Etym: [F., perh. fr. L. moerus, for murus a wall, through
(assumed) dim. moerulus.] (Fort.)

Defn: One of the solid parts of a battlemented parapet; a battlement.
See Illust. of Battlement.

MERLUCE
Mer"luce, n. Etym: [F. merluche, merlus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European hake; -- called also herring hake and sea pike.

MERMAID
Mer"maid, n. Etym: [AS. mere lake, sea. See Mere lake, and maid.]

Defn: A fabled marine creature, typically represented as having the
upper part like that of a woman, and the lower like a fish; a sea
nymph, sea woman, or woman fish.

Note: Chaucer uses this word as equivalent to the siren of the
ancients. Mermaid fish (Zoöl.) the angel fish (Squatina).
 -- Mermaid's glove (Zoöl.), a British branched sponge somewhat
resembling a glove.
 -- Mermaid's head (Zoöl.), a European spatangoid sea urchin
(Echinocardium cordatum) having some resemblance to a skull.
 -- Mermaid weed (Bot.), an aquatic herb with dentate or pectinate
leaves (Proserpinaca palustris and P. pectinacea).

MERMAN
Mer"man, n.; pl. Mermen (.

Defn: The male corresponding to mermaid; a sea man, or man fish.

MERO; MERO DE LOALTO; MERO CABROLLA
Me"ro, n. [Sp.; cf. Pg. mero.]

Defn: Any of several large groupers of warm seas, esp. the guasa
(Epinephelus guaza), the red grouper (E. morio), the black grouper
(E. nigritas), distinguished as Me"ro de lo al"to, and a species
called also rock hind, distinguished as Me"ro ca*brol"la.

MEROBLAST
Mer"o*blast, n. Etym: [Gr. -blast.] (Biol.)

Defn: An ovum, as that of a mammal, only partially composed of
germinal matter, that is, consisting of both a germinal portion and
an albuminous or nutritive one; -- opposed to holoblast.

MEROBLASTIC
Mer`o*blas"tic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Consisting only in part of germinal matter; characterized by
partial segmentation only; as, meroblastic ova, in which a portion of
the yolk only undergoes fission; meroblastic segmentation; -- opposed
to holoblastic.

MEROCELE
Me"ro*cele, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Hernia in the thigh; femoral hernia .

MEROISTIC
Mer`o*is"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Applied to the ovaries of insects when they secrete
vitelligenous cells, as well as ova.

MEROPIDAN
Me*rop"i*dan, n. Etym: [L. merops a bee-eating bird, Gr. me`rops.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a family of birds (Meropidæ), including the bee-eaters.

MEROPODITE
Me*rop"o*dite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The fourth joint of a typical appendage of Crustacea.

MERORGANIZATION
Mer*or`gan*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Gr. organization.]

Defn: Organization in part. [R.]

MEROS
Me"ros, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: The plain surface between the channels of a triglyph. [Written
also merus.] Weale.

MEROS
Me"ros, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The proximal segment of the hind limb; the thigh.

MEROSOME
Mer"o*some, n. Etym: [Gr. -some body.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the serial segments, or metameres, of which the bodies
of vertebrate and articulate animals are composed.

MEROSTOMATA
Mer`o*stom"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of Arthropoda, allied to the Crustacea. It includes the
trilobites, Eurypteroidea, and Limuloidea. All are extinct except the
horseshoe crabs of the last group. See Limulus.

MEROU
Mé`rou", n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Jack, 8 (c).

MEROVINGIAN
Mer`o*vin"gi*an, a. Etym: [From Merovaeus, the Latin name of a king
of the Franks.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the first Frankish dynasty in Gaul or
France.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the kings of this dynasty.

MEROZOITE
Mer`o*zo"ite, n. [Gr.  part + Sporozoa.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A form of spore, usually elongate or falciform, and somewhat
amoboid, produced by segmentation of the schizonts of certain
Sporozoa, as the malaria parasite.

MERRILY
Mer"ri*ly, adv. Etym: [From Merry.]

Defn: In a merry manner; with mirth; with gayety and laughter;
jovially. See Mirth, and Merry.
Merrily sing, and sport, and play. Granville.

MERRIMAKE
Mer"ri*make`, n.

Defn: See Merrymake, n.

MERRIMAKE
Mer"ri*make`, v. i.

Defn: See Merrymake, v. Gay.

MERRIMENT
Mer"ri*ment, n.

Defn: Gayety, with laughter; mirth; frolic. "Follies and light
merriment." Spenser.
Methought it was the sound Of riot and ill-managed merriment. Milton.

MERRINESS
Mer"ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being merry; merriment; mirth; gayety,
with laughter.

MERRY
Mer"ry, a. [Compar. Merrier; superl. Merriest.] Etym: [OE. merie,
mirie, murie, merry, pleasant, AS. merge, myrige, pleasant; cf.
murge, adv.; prob. akin to OHG. murg, short, Goth. gamaúrgjan to
shorten; cf. L. murcus a coward, who cuts off his thumb to escape
military service; the Anglo-Saxon and English meanings coming from
the idea of making the time seem short. Cf. Mirth.]

1. Laughingly gay; overflowing with good humor and good spirits;
jovial; inclined to laughter or play ; sportive.
They drank, and were merry with him. Gen. xliii. 34.
I am never merry when I hear sweet music. Shak.

2. Cheerful; joyous; not sad; happy.
Is any merry Jas. v. 13.

3. Causing laughter, mirth, gladness, or delight; as, merry jest.
"Merry wind and weather." Spenser. Merry dancers. See under Dancer.
 -- Merry men, followers; retainers. [Obs.]
His merie men commanded he To make him bothe game and glee. Chaucer.
-- To make merry, to be jovial; to indulge in hilarity; to feast with
mirth. Judg. ix. 27.

Syn.
 -- Cheerful; blithe; lively; sprightly; vivacious; gleeful; joyous;
mirthful; jocund; sportive; hilarious.

MERRY
Mer"ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of wild red cherry.

MERRY-ANDREW
Mer"ry-an"drew, n.

Defn: One whose business is to make sport for others; a buffoon; a
zany; especially, one who attends a mountebank or quack doctor.

Note: This term is said to have originated from one Andrew Borde, an
English physician of the 16th century, who gained patients by
facetious speeches to the multitude.

MERRY-GO-ROUND
Mer"ry-go`-round", n.

Defn: Any revolving contrivance for affording amusement; esp., a ring
of flying hobbyhorses.

MERRYMAKE
Mer"ry*make`, n.

Defn: Mirth; frolic; a meeting for mirth; a festival. [Written also
merrimake.]

MERRYMAKE
Mer"ry*make`, v. i.

Defn: To make merry; to be jolly; to feast. [Written also merrimake.]

MERRYMAKER
Mer"ry*mak`er, n.

Defn: One who makes merriment or indulges in conviviality; a jovial
comrade.

MERRYMAKING
Mer"ry*mak`ing, a.

Defn: Making or producing mirth; convivial; jolly.

MERRYMAKING
Mer"ry*mak`ing, n.

Defn: The act of making merry; conviviality; merriment; jollity.
Wordsworth.

MERRYMEETING
Mer"ry*meet`ing, n.

Defn: A meeting for mirth.

MERRYTHOUGHT
Mer"ry*thought`, n.

Defn: The forked bone of a fowl's breast; -- called also wishbone.
See Furculum.

Note: It is a sportive custom for two persons to break this bone by
pulling the ends apart to see who will get the longer piece, the
securing of which is regarded as a lucky omen, signifying that the
person holding it will obtain the gratification of some secret wish.

MERSION
Mer"sion, n. Etym: [L. mersio. See Merge.]

Defn: Immersion [R.] Barrow.

MERULIDAN
Me*ru"li*dan, n. Etym: [L. merula, merulus, blackbird. See Merle.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of the Thrush family.

MERUS
Me"rus, n. Etym: [NL.] (Arch.)

Defn: See Meros.

MERVAILLE
Mer"vaille`, n.

Defn: Marvel. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MES-
Mes-.

Defn: See Meso-.

MESA
Me"sa, Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A high tableland; a plateau on a hill. [Southwestern U.S.]
Bartlett.

MESACONATE
Mes*ac"o*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of mesaconic acid.

MESACONIC
Mes`a*con"ic, a. Etym: [Mes- + -aconic, as in citraconic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, one of several isomeric acids
obtained from citric acid.

MESAD
Mes"ad, adv.

Defn: Same as Mesiad.

MESAL
Mes"al, a.

Defn: Same as Mesial.

MESALLIANCE
Mé`sal`li`ance", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A marriage with a person of inferior social position; a
misalliance.

MESALLY
Mes"al*ly, adv.

Defn: Same as Mesially.

MESAMEBOID; MESAMOEBOID
Mes`a*me"boid, Mes`a*moe"boid, n. Etym: [Mes- + amoeboid.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of a class of independent, isolated cells found in the
mesoderm, while the germ layers are undergoing differentiation.

MESARAIC
Mes`a*ra"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Mesenteric.

MESATICEPHALIC
Mes`a*ti*ce*phal"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. midmost + E. cephalic.] (Anat.)

Defn: Having the ratio of the length to the breadth of the cranium a
medium one; neither brachycephalic nor dolichocephalic.

MESATICEPHALOUS
Mes`a*ti*ceph"a*lous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Mesaticephalic.

MESCAL
Mes*cal", n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A distilled liquor prepared in Mexico from a species of agave.
See Agave.

MESDAMES
Mes`dames" (F. , E. ), n.,

Defn: pl. of Madame and Madam.

MESEEMS
Me*seems", v. impers. [imp. Meseemed.]

Defn: It seems to me. [Poetic]

MESEL
Me"sel, n. Etym: [See Measle.]

Defn: A leper. [Obs.]

MESELRY
Me"sel*ry, n.

Defn: Leprosy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MESEMBRYANTHEMUM
Me*sem`bry*an"the*mum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbaceous or suffruticose plants, chiefly natives
of South Africa. The leaves are opposite, thick, and f

MESENCEPHALIC
Mes`en*ce*phal"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the mesencephalon or midbrain.

MESENCEPHALON
Mes`en*ceph"a*lon, n. Etym: [NL. See Meso- and Encephalon.] (Anat.)

Defn: The middle segment of the brain; the midbrain. Sometimes
abbreviated to mesen. See Brain.

MESENCHYMA
Mes*en"chy*ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -enchyma, as in E. parenchyma.]
(Biol.)

Defn: The part of the mesoblast which gives rise to the connective
tissues and blood.

MESENTERIC
Mes`en*ter"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mésentérique.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to a mesentery; mesaraic.

MESENTERON
Mes*en"te*ron, n. Etym: [NL. See Meso-, and Enteron.] (Anat.)

Defn: All that part of the alimentary canal which is developed from
the primitive enteron and is lined with hypoblast. It is
distinguished from the stomod, a part at the anterior end of the
canal, including the cavity of the mouth, and the proctod, a part at
the posterior end, which are formed by invagination and are lined
with epiblast.

MESENTERY
Mes"en*ter*y, n. Etym: [Gr. mésentère.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The membranes, or one of the membranes (consisting of a fold of
the peritoneum and inclosed tissues), which connect the intestines
and their appendages with the dorsal wall of the abdominal cavity.
The mesentery proper is connected with the jejunum and ilium, the
other mesenteries being called mesoc, mesocolon, mesorectum, etc.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the vertical muscular radiating partitions which divide
the body cavity of Anthozoa into chambers.

MESERAIC
Mes`e*ra"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Mesaraic.

MESETHMOID
Mes*eth"moid, a. Etym: [Mes- + ethmoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the middle of the ethmoid region or ethmoid
bone.
 -- n. (Anat.)

Defn: The median vertical plate, or median element, of the ethmoid
bone.

MESH
Mesh, n. Etym: [AS. masc, max, m; akin to D. maas, masche, OHG.
masca, Icel. möskvi; cf. Lith. mazgas a knot, megsti to weave nets,
to knot.]

1. The opening or space inclosed by the threads of a net between knot
and knot, or the threads inclosing such a space; network; a net.
A golden mesh to entrap the hearts of men. Shak.

2. (Gearing)

Defn: The engagement of the teeth of wheels, or of a wheel and rack.
Mesh stick, a stick on which the mesh is formed in netting.

MESH
Mesh, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Meshed; p. pr. & vb. n. Meshing.]

Defn: To catch in a mesh. Surrey.

MESH
Mesh, v. i. (Gearing)

Defn: To engage with each other, as the teeth of wheels.

MESHED
Meshed, a.

Defn: Mashed; brewed. [Obs.] Shak.

MESHY
Mesh"y, a.

Defn: Formed with meshes; netted.

MESIAD
Mes"i*ad, adv. Etym: [Gr. ad to.] (Anat.)

Defn: Toward, or on the side toward, the mesial plane; mesially; --
opposed to laterad.

MESIAL
Me"sial, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Middle; median; in, or in the region of, the mesial plane;
internal; -- opposed to lateral. Mesial plane. (Anat.) See Meson.

MESIALLY
Me"sial*ly, adv. (Anat.)

Defn: In, near, or toward, the mesial plane; mesiad.

MESITYL
Mes"i*tyl, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical formerly supposed to exist in mesityl
oxide. Mesityl oxide (Chem.), a volatile liquid having the odor of
peppermint, obtained by certain dehydrating agents from acetone; --
formerly called also dumasin.

MESITYLENATE
Me*sit"y*le*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of mesitylenic acid.

MESITYLENE
Me*sit"y*lene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, fragrant liquid, C6H3(CH3)3, of the benzene series
of hydrocarbons, obtained by distilling acetone with sulphuric acid.
 -- Me*sit`y*len"ic, a.

MESITYLOL
Me*sit"y*lol, n. Etym: [Mesitylene + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline substance obtained from mesitylene.

MESLIN
Mes"lin ( or ), n.

Defn: See Maslin.

MESMEREE
Mes`mer*ee", n.

Defn: A person subjected to mesmeric influence; one who is
mesmerized. [R.]

MESMERIC; MESMERICAL
Mes*mer"ic, Mes*mer"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mesmérique.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or induced by, mesmerism; as, mesmeric
sleep.

MESMERISM
Mes"mer*ism, n. Etym: [From Mesmer, who first brought it into notice
at Vienna, about 1775: cf. F. mesmérisme.]

Defn: The art of inducing an extraordinary or abnormal state of the
nervous system, in which the actor claims to control the actions, and
communicate directly with the mind, of the recipient. See Animal
magnetism, under Magnetism.

MESMERIST
Mes"mer*ist, n.

Defn: One who practices, or believes in, mesmerism.

MESMERIZATION
Mes`mer*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of mesmerizing; the state of being mesmerized.

MESMERIZE
Mes"mer*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mesmerized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mesmerizing.]

Defn: To bring into a state of mesmeric sleep.

MESMERIZER
Mes"mer*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who mesmerizes.

MESNE
Mesne, a. Etym: [Cf. Mean intermediate.] (Law)

Defn: Middle; intervening; as, a mesne lord, that is, a lord who
holds land of a superior, but grants a part of it to another person,
in which case he is a tenant to the superior, but lord or superior to
the second grantee, and hence is called the mesne lord. Mesne
process, intermediate process; process intervening between the
beginning and end of a suit, sometimes understood to be the whole
process preceding the execution. Blackstone. Burrill.
 -- Mesne profits, profits of premises during the time the owner has
been wrongfully kept out of the possession of his estate. Burrill.

MESO-; MES-
Mes"o-, Mes-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form denoting in the middle, intermediate; specif.
(Chem.), denoting a type of hydrocarbons which are regarded as
methenyl derivatives. Also used adjectively.

MESOARIUM
Mes`o*a"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The fold of peritoneum which suspends the ovary from the dorsal
wall of the body cavity.

MESOBLAST
Mes"o*blast, n. Etym: [Meso- + -blast.] (Biol.)
(a) The mesoderm.
(b) The cell nucleus; mesoplast.

MESOBLASTIC
Mes`o*blas"tic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to the mesoblast; as, the mesoblastic layer.

MESOBRANCHIAL
Mes`o*bran"chi*al, a. Etym: [Meso- + branchial.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a region of the carapace of a crab covering
the middle branchial region.

MESOBRONCHIUM
Mes`o*bron"chi*um, n.; pl. Mesobronchia. Etym: [NL. See Meso-, and
Bronchia.] (Anat.)

Defn: The main bronchus of each lung.

MESOCAECUM
Mes`o*cæ"cum, n. (Anat.) Etym: [NL. See Meso-, and Cæcum.]

Defn: The fold of peritoneum attached to the cæcum.
 -- Mes`o*cæ"cal, a.

MESOCARP
Mes"o*carp, n. Etym: [Meso- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The middle layer of a pericarp which consists of three distinct
or dissimilar layers. Gray.

MESOCEPHALIC
Mes`o*ce*phal"ic, a. Etym: [Meso- + cephalic.] (Anat.)
(a) Of or pertaining to, or in the region of, the middle of the head;
as, the mesocephalic flexure.
(b) Having the cranial cavity of medium capacity; neither
megacephalic nor microcephalic.
(c) Having the ratio of the length to the breadth of the cranium a
medium one; mesaticephalic.

MESOCEPHALON
Mes`o*ceph"a*lon, n. Etym: [NL. See Meso-, and Cephalon.] (Anat.)

Defn: The pons Varolii.

MESOCEPHALOUS
Mes`o*ceph"a*lous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Mesocephalic.

MESOCOELE; MESOCOELIA
Mes`o*coe"le, Mes`o*coe"li*a, n. Etym: [NL. mesocoelia. See Meso-,
and Coelia.] (Anat.)

Defn: The cavity of the mesencephalon; the iter.

MESOCOLON
Mes`o*co"lon, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. mésocôlon.] (Anat.)

Defn: The fold of peritoneum, or mesentery, attached to the colon.
 -- Mes`o*col"ic, a.

MESOCORACOID
Mes`o*cor"a*coid, n. Etym: [Meso- + coracoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: A process from the middle of the coracoid in some animals.

MESOCUNEIFORM; MESOCUNIFORM
Mes`o*cu*ne"i*form, Mes`o*cu"ni*form, n. Etym: [Meso- + cuneiform,
cuniform.] (Anat.)

Defn: One of the bones of the tarsus. See 2d Cuneiform.

MESODERM
Mes"o*derm, n. Etym: [Meso- + Gr. (Biol.)
(a) The layer of the blastoderm, between the ectoderm and endoderm;
mesoblast. See Illust. of Blastoderm and Ectoderm.
(b) The middle body layer in some invertebrates.
(c) The middle layer of tissue in some vegetable structures.

MESODERMAL
Mes`o*der"mal, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the mesoderm; as, mesodermal
tissues.

MESODERMIC
Mes`o*der"mic, a.

Defn: Same as Mesodermal.

MESODONT
Mes"o*dont, a. Etym: [Meso- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having teeth of moderate size.

MESOGASTER
Mes`o*gas"ter, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The fold of peritoneum connecting the stomach with the dorsal
wall of the abdominal cavity; the mesogastrium.

MESOGASTRIC
Mes`o*gas"tric, a. Etym: [Meso- + gastric.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) Of or pertaining to the middle region of the abdomen, or of the
stomach.
(b) Of or pertaining to the mesogaster.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the middle gastric lobe of the carapace of
a crab.

MESOGASTRIUM
Mes`o*gas"tri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Mesogaster.] (Anat.)
(a) The umbilical region.
(b) The mesogaster.

MESOGLEA; MESOGLOEA
Mes`o*gloe"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A thin gelatinous tissue separating the ectoderm and endoderm
in certain coelenterates.
 -- Mes`o*gloeal, a.

MESOGNATHOUS
Me*sog"na*thous, a. Etym: [Meso- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having the jaws slightly projecting; between prognathous and
orthognathous. See Gnathic index, under Gnathic.

MESOHEPAR
Mes`o*he"par, n. Etym: [NL. See Meso-, and Hepar.] (Anat.)

Defn: A fold of the peritoneum connecting the liver with the dorsal
wall of the abdominal cavity.

MESOHIPPUS
Mes`o*hip"pus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct mammal of the Horse family, but not larger than a
sheep, and having three toes on each foot.

MESOLABE
Mes"o*labe, n. Etym: [L. mesolabium, Gr.

Defn: An instrument of the ancients for finding two mean
proportionals between two given lines, required in solving the
problem of the duplication of the cube. Brande & C.

MESOLE
Mes"ole, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Same as Thomsonite.

MESOLITE
Mes"o*lite, n. Etym: [Meso- + -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A zeolitic mineral, grayish white or yellowish, occuring in
delicate groups of crystals, also fibrous massive. It is a hydrous
silicate of alumina, lime, and soda.

MESOLOGARITHM
Mes`o*log"a*rithm, n. Etym: [Meso- + logarithm : cf. F.
mésologarithme.] (Math.)

Defn: A logarithm of the cosine or cotangent. [Obs.] Kepler. Hutton.

MESOMETRIUM
Mes`o*me"tri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Meso-, and Metrium.] (Anat.)

Defn: The fold of the peritoneum supporting the oviduct.

MESOMYCETES
Mes`o*my*ce"tes, n. pl. [NL.; meso- + mycetes.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the three classes into which the fungi are divided in
Brefeld's classification. -- Mes`o*my*ce"tous (#), a.

MESOMYODIAN
Mes`o*my*o"di*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird having a mesomyodous larynx.

MESOMYODOUS
Mes`o*my"o*dous, a. Etym: [Meso- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the intrinsic muscles of the larynx attached to the
middle of the semirings.

MESON
Mes"on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The mesial plane dividing the body of an animal into similar
right and left halves. The line in which it meets the dorsal surface
has been called the dorsimeson, and the corresponding ventral edge
the ventrimeson. B. G. Wilder.

MESONASAL
Mes`o*na"sal, a. Etym: [Meso- + nasal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the middle portion of the nasal region.

MESONEPHRIC
Mes`o*neph"ric, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the mesonephros; as, the mesonephric, or
Wolffian, duct.

MESONEPHROS
Mes`o*neph"ros, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The middle one of the three pairs of embryonic renal organs
developed in most vertebrates; the Wolffian body.

MESONOTUM
Mes`o*no"tum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dorsal portion of the mesothorax of insects.

MESOPHLOEUM
Mes`o*phloe"um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The middle bark of a tree; the green layer of bark, usually
soon covered by the outer or corky layer, and obliterated.

MESOPHRYON
Me*soph"ry*on, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: See Glabella.

MESOPHYLLUM
Mes`o*phyl"lum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The parenchyma of a leaf between the skin of the two surfaces.
Gray.

MESOPLAST
Mes"o*plast, n. Etym: [Meso- + -plast.] (Biol.)

Defn: The nucleus of a cell; mesoblast. Agassix.

MESOPODIAL
Mes`o*po"di*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the mesopodialia or to the parts of the
limbs to which they belong.

MESOPODIALE
Mes`o*po`di*a"le, n.; pl. Mesopodialia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the bones of either the carpus or tarsus.

MESOPODIUM
Mes`o*po"di*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Mesopodiale.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The middle portion of the foot in the Gastropoda and Pteropoda.

MESOPTERYGIUM
Me*sop`te*ryg"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The middle one of the three principal basal cartilages in the
fins of fishes.
 -- Me*sop`ter*yg"i*al, a.

MESORCHIUM
Me*sor"chi*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The fold of peritoneum which attaches the testis to the dorsal
wall of the body cavity or scrotal sac.

MESORECTUM
Mes`o*rec"tum, n. Etym: [Meso- + rectum.] (Anat.)

Defn: The fold of peritoneum, or mesentery, attached to the rectum.
 -- Mes`o*rec"tal, a.

MESORHINE
Mes"o*rhine, a. Etym: [Meso- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having the nose of medium width; between leptorhine and
platyrhine.

MESOSAURIA
Mes`o*sau"ri*a, n.

Defn: Same as Mosasauria.

MESOSCAPULA
Mes`o*scap"u*la, n. Etym: [Meso- + scapula.] (Anat.)

Defn: A process from the middle of the scapula in some animals; the
spine of the scapula.

MESOSCAPULAR
Mes`o*scap"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the mesoscapula.

MESOSCUTUM
Mes`o*scu"tum, n. Etym: [Meso- + scutum.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The scutum or dorsal plate of the middle thoracic segment of an
insect. See Illust. of Butterfly.

MESOSEME
Mes"o*seme, a. Etym: [Meso- + Gr. mésosème.] (Anat.)

Defn: Having a medium orbital index; having orbits neither broad nor
narrow; between megaseme and microseme.

MESOSIDERITE
Mes`o*sid"er*ite, n. Etym: [Meso- + siderite.] (Min.)

Defn: See the Note under Meteorite.

MESOSPERM
Mes"o*sperm, n. Etym: [Meso- + Gr. mésosperme.] (Bot.)

Defn: A membrane of a seed. See Secundine.

MESOSTATE
Mes"o*state, n. Etym: [Meso- + Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A product of metabolic action.

Note: Every mesostate is either an anastate or katastate, according
as it is formed by an anabolic or katabolic process. See Metabolism.

MESOSTERNAL
Mes`o*ster"nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the mesosternum.

MESOSTERNUM
Mes`o*ster"num, n. Etym: [Meso- + sternum.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The middle portion, or body, of the sternum.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ventral piece of the middle segment of the thorax in
insects.

MESOTARTARIC
Mes`o*tar*tar"ic, a. Etym: [Meso- + tartaric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid called also inactive
tartaric acid.

MESOTHECA
Mes`o*the"ca, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The middle layer of the gonophore in the Hydrozoa.

MESOTHELIUM
Mes`o*the"li*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. thelium.] (Biol.)

Defn: Epithelial mesoderm; a layer of cuboidal epithelium cells,
formed from a portion of the mesoderm during the differetiation of
the germ layers. It constitutes the boundary of the coelum.

MESOTHORACIC
Mes`o*tho*rac"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the mesothorax.

MESOTHORAX
Mes`o*tho"rax, n. Etym: [Meso- + thorax: cf. F. mésothorax.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The middle segment of the thorax in insects. See Illust. of
Coleoptera.

MESOTHORIUM
Mes`o*tho"ri*um, n. [NL.; meso-+ thorium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A radioactive product intermediate between thorium and
radiothorium, with a period of 5.5 years.

MESOTROCHAL
Mes"o*tro`chal, a. Etym: [Meso- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the middle of the body surrounded by bands of cilia; --
said of the larvæ of certain marine annelids.

MESOTYPE
Mes"o*type, n. Etym: [Meso- + -type: cf. F. mésotype.] (Min.)

Defn: An old term covering natrolite or soda mesolite, scolecite or
lime mesotype, and mesolite or lime-soda mesotype.

MESOVARIUM
Mes`o*va"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Meso-, and Ovary.] (Anat.)

Defn: The fold of peritoneum connecting the ovary with the wall of
the abdominal cavity.

MESOXALATE
Mes*ox"a*late, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of mesoxalic acid.

MESOXALIC
Mes`ox*al"ic, a. Etym: [Mes- + oxalic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, CH2O2(CO2H)2, obtained
from amido malonic acid.

MESOZOA
Mes`o*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Mesozoic.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of very lowly organized, wormlike parasites, including
the Dicyemata. They are found in cephalopods. See Dicyemata.

MESOZOIC
Mes`o*zo"ic, a. Etym: [Meso- + Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: Belonging, or relating, to the secondary or reptilian age, or
the era between the Paleozoic and Cenozoic. See Chart of Geology.

MESOZOIC
Mes`o*zo"ic, n.

Defn: The Mesozoic age or formation.

MESPRISE
Mes*prise", n. Etym: [OF. mespris, F. mépris. See Misprize.]

1. Contempt; scorn. [Obs.]

2. Etym: [Perh. for F. méprise mistake. Cf. Misprision.]

Defn: Misadventure; ill-success. [Obs.] Spenser.

MESQUITE; MESQUIT
Mes*qui"te, Mes*quit", n. Etym: [Sp. mezquite; said to be a Mexican
Indian word.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name for two trees of the southwestern part of North America,
the honey mesquite, and screw-pod mesquite. Honey mesquite. See
Algaroba (b).
 -- Screw-pod mesquite, a smaller tree (Prosopis pubescens), having
spiral pods used as fodder and sometimes as food by the Indians.
 -- Mesquite grass, a rich native grass in Western Texas (Bouteloua
oligostachya, and other species); -- so called from its growing in
company with the mesquite tree; -- called also muskit grass, grama
grass.

MESQUITE BEAN
Mes*qui"te bean.

Defn: The pod or seed of the mesquite.

MESS
Mess, n.

Defn: Mass; church service. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MESS
Mess, n. Etym: [OE. mes, OF. mets, LL. missum, p. p. of mittere to
put, place (e. g., on the table), L. mittere to send. See Mission,
and cf. Mass religious service.]

1. A quantity of food set on a table at one time; provision of food
for a person or party for one meal; as, a mess of pottage; also, the
food given to a beast at one time.
At their savory dinner set Of herbs and other country messes. Milton.

2. A number of persons who eat together, and for whom food is
prepared in common; especially, persons in the military or naval
service who eat at the same table; as, the wardroom mess. Shak.

3. A set of four; -- from the old practice of dividing companies into
sets of four at dinner. [Obs.] Latimer.

4. The milk given by a cow at one milking. [U.S.]

5. Etym: [Perh. corrupt. fr. OE. mesh for mash: cf. muss.]

Defn: A disagreeable mixture or confusion of things; hence, a
situation resulting from blundering or from misunderstanding; as, he
made a mess of it. [Colloq.]

MESS
Mess, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Messed; p. pr. & vb. n. Messing.]

Defn: To take meals with a mess; to belong to a mess; to eat (with
others); as, I mess with the wardroom officers. Marryat.

MESS
Mess, v. t.

Defn: To supply with a mess.

MESSAGE
Mes"sage (; 48), n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. missaticum, fr. L. mittere,
missum, to send. See Mission, and cf. Messenger.]

1. Any notice, word, or communication, written or verbal, sent from
one person to another.
Ehud said, I have a message from God unto thee. Judg. iii. 20.

2. Hence, specifically, an official communication, not made in
person, but delivered by a messenger; as, the President's message.
Message shell. See Shell.

MESSAGE
Mes"sage, v. t.

Defn: To bear as a message. [Obs.]

MESSAGE
Mes"sage, n. Etym: [OE., fr. OF. message, fr. LL. missaticus. See 1st
Message.]

Defn: A messenger. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MESSAGER
Mes"sa*ger, n. Etym: [OE.]

Defn: A messenger. [Obs.]

MESSAGE STICK
Mes"sage stick.

Defn: A stick, carved with lines and dots, used, esp. by Australian
aborigines, to convey information.

MESS BEEF
Mess beef.

Defn: Barreled salt beef, packed with about 80 pounds chuck and rump,
two flanks, and the rest plates.

MESSENGER
Mes"sen*ger, n. Etym: [OE. messager, OF. messagier, F. messager. See
Message.]

1. One who bears a message; the bearer of a verbal or written
communication, notice, or invitation, from one person to another, or
to a public body; specifically, an office servant who bears messages.

2. One who, or that which, foreshows, or foretells.
Yon gray lines That fret the clouds are messengers of day. Shak.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A hawser passed round the capstan, and having its two ends
lashed together to form an endless rope or chain; -- formerly used
for heaving in the cable.

4. (Law)

Defn: A person appointed to perform certain ministerial duties under
bankrupt and insolvent laws, such as to take charge og the estate of
the bankrupt or insolvent. Bouvier. Tomlins.

Syn.
 -- Carrier; intelligencer; courier; harbinger; forerunner;
precursor; herald. Messenger bird, the secretary bird, from its
swiftness.

MESSET
Mes"set, n.

Defn: A dog. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

MESSIAD
Mes*si"ad, n.

Defn: A German epic poem on the Messiah, by Klopstock.

MESSIAH
Mes*si"ah, n. Etym: [Heb. mashiakh anointed, fr. mashakh to anoint.
Cf. Messias.]

Defn: The expected king and deliverer of the Hebrews; the Savior;
Christ.
And told them the Messiah now was born. Milton.

MESSIAHSHIP
Mes*si"ah*ship, n.

Defn: The state or office of the Messiah.

MESSIANIC
Mes`si*an"ic, a.

Defn: Of or relating to the Messiah; as, the Messianic office or
character.

MESSIAS
Mes*si"as, n. Etym: [LL., fr. Gr. Messiah.]

Defn: The Messiah.
I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ. John iv. 25.

MESSIDOR
Mes`si`dor" (F. ; E. ), n. Etym: [F., fr. L. messis harvest.]

Defn: The tenth month of the French republican calendar dating from
September 22, 1792. It began June 19, and ended July 18. See
VendÉmiaire.

MESSIEURS
Mes"sieurs (; F. ; 277), n. pl. Etym: [F.; pl. of monsieur.]

Defn: Sirs; gentlemen; -- abbreviated to Messrs., which is used as
the plural of Mr.

MESSINESE
Mes`si*nese" ( or ), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Messina, or its inhabitans.

MESSMATE
Mess"mate`, n.

Defn: An associate in a mess.

MESSUAGE
Mes"suage (; 48), n. Etym: [Cf. OF. mesuage, masnage, LL. messuagium,
mansionaticum, fr. L. mansio, -onis, a staying, remaining, dwelling,
fr. manere, mansum, to stay, remain, E. mansion, manse.] (Law)

Defn: A dwelling house, with the adjacent buildings and curtilage,
and the adjoining lands appropriated to the use of the household.
Cowell. Bouvier.
They wedded her to sixty thousand pounds, To lands in Kent, and
messuages in York. Tennyson.

MEST
Mest, a.

Defn: Most. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MESTEE
Mes*tee", n. Etym: [See Mestizo.]

Defn: The offspring of a white person and a quadroon; -- so called in
the West Indies. [Written also mustee.]

MESTER
Mes"ter, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Mister, a trade.

MESTINO
Mes*ti"no, n.; pl. Mestinos (.

Defn: See Mestizo.

MESTIZO
Mes*ti"zo, n.; pl. Mestizos. Etym: [Sp. mestizo; akin to OF. mestis,
F. métis; all fr. (assumed) LL. mixtitius, fr. L. mixtus mixed, p. p.
of miscere to mix. See Mix, and cf. Mestee, MÉtif, MÉtis, Mustee.]

Defn: The offspring of an Indian or a negro and a European or person
of European stock. [Spanish America] Mestizo wool, wool imported from
South America, and produced by mixed breeds of sheep.

MESTLING
Mest"ling, n.

Defn: A kind of brass. See Maslin. [Obs.]

MESYMNICUM
Me*sym"ni*cum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Hymn.] (Anc. Poetry)

Defn: A repetition at the end of a stanza.

MET
Met, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Meet.

MET
Met, obs. imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Mete, to measure. Chapman.

MET
Met, obs. p. p.

Defn: of Mete, to dream. Chaucer.

META-; MET-
Met"a-, Met-. Etym: [Gr. mid with, G. mit, Goth. miÞ, E. mid, in
midwife.]

1. A prefix meaning between, with, after, behind, over, about,
reversely; as, metachronism, the error of placing after the correct
time; metaphor, lit., a carrying over; metathesis, a placing
reversely.

2. (Chem.) A prefix denoting:
(a) Other; duplicate, corresponding to; resembling; hence, metameric;
as, meta-arabinic, metaldehyde.
(b) (Organic Chem.) That two replacing radicals, in the benzene
nucleus, occupy the relative positions of 1 and 3, 2 and 4, 3 and 5,
4 and 6, 5 and 1, or 6 and 2; as, metacresol, etc. See Ortho-, and
Para-.
(c) (Inorganic Chem.) Having less than the highest number of hydroxyl
groups; -- said of acids; as, metaphosphoric acid. Also used
adjectively. at a level above, as metaphysics, metalanguage.

METABASIS
Me*tab"a*sis, n.; pl. Metabases. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Rhet.)

Defn: A transition from one subject to another.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Metabola.

METABOLA; METABOLE
Me*tab"o*la, Me*tab"o*le, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A change or mutation; a change of disease, symptoms, or
treatment.

METABOLA; METABOLIA
Me*tab"o*la, Met`a*bo"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See 1st Metabola.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A comprehensive group of insects, including those that undegro
a metamorphosis.

METABOLIAN
Met`a*bo"li*an, n. Etym: [See Metabola.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect which undergoes a metamorphosis.

METABOLIC
Met`a*bol"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Metabola.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to metamorphosis; pertaining to, or involving,
change.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to metabolism; as, metabolic activity;
metabolic force.

METABOLISIS
Met`a*bol"i*sis, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Metabolism. [R.]

METABOLISM
Me*tab"o*lism, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The act or process, by which living tissues or cells take up
and convert into their own proper substance the nutritive material
brought to them by the blood, or by which they transform their cell
protoplasm into simpler substances, which are fitted either for
excretion or for some special purpose, as in the manufacture of the
digestive ferments. Hence, metabolism may be either constructive
(anabolism), or destructive (katabolism).

METABOLITE
Me*tab"o*lite, n. (Physiol Chem.)

Defn: A product of metabolism; a substance produced by metabolic
action, as urea.

METABOLIZE
Me*tab"o*lize, v. t. & i. (Physiol.)

Defn: To change by a metabolic process. See Metabolism.

METABRANCHIAL
Met`a*bran"chi*al, a. Etym: [Meta- + branchial.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the lobe of the carapace of crabs covering
the posterior branchiæ.

METACARPAL
Met`a*car"pal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the metacarpus.
 -- n.

Defn: A metacarpal bone.

METACARPUS
Met`a*car"pus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: That part of the skeleton of the hand or forefoot between the
carpus and phalanges. In man it consists of five bones. See Illust.
of Artiodactyla.

METACENTER; METACENTRE
Met`a*cen"ter or; Metacentre, n. Etym: [Pref. meta- + center.]
(Hydrostatics)

Defn: The point of intersection of a vertical line through the center
of gravity of the fluid displaced by a floating body which is tipped
through a small angle from its position of equilibrium, and the
inclined line which was vertical through the center of gravity of the
body when in equilibrium.

Note: When the metacenter is above the center of gravity, the
position of the body is stable; when below it, unstable.

METACETONE
Me*tac"e*tone, n. Etym: [Pref. met- + acetone.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless liquid of an agreeable odor, C6H10O, obtained by
distilling a mixture of sugar and lime; -- so called because formerly
regarded as a polymeric modification of acetone.

METACHLORAL
Met`a*chlo"ral, n. Etym: [Pref. meta- + chloral.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, amorphous, insoluble substance regarded as a polymeric
variety of chloral.

METACHRONISM
Me*tach"ro*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. métachronisme.]

Defn: An error committed in chronology by placing an event after its
real time.

METACHROSIS
Met`a*chro"sis, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The power og changing color at will by the expansion of special
pigment cells, under nerve influence, as seen in many reptiles,
fishes, etc. Cope.

METACINNABARITE
Met`a*cin"na*bar*ite, n. Etym: [Pref. meta- + cinnabar.] (Min.)

Defn: Sulphide of mercury in isometric form and black in color.

METACISM
Met"a*cism, n. Etym: [L. metacismus, Gr.

Defn: A defect in pronouncing the letter m, or a too frequent use of
it.

METACROLEIN
Met`a*cro"le*in, n. Etym: [Pref. met- + acrolein.] (Chem.)

Defn: A polymeric modification of acrolein obtained by heating it
with caustic potash. It is a crystalline substance having an aromatic
odor.

METACROMION
Met`a*cro"mi*on, n. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: A process projecting backward and downward from the acromion of
the scapula of some mammals.

METADISCOIDAL
Met`a*dis*coid"al, a. Etym: [Meta- + discoidal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Discoidal by derivation; -- applied especially to the placenta
of man and apes, because it is supposed to have been derived from a
diffused placenta.

METAGASTRIC
Met`a*gas"tric, a. Etym: [Pref. meta- + gastric.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the two posterior gastric lobes of the
carapace of crabs.

METAGE
Met"age (; 48), n. Etym: [From Mete, v.]

1. Measurement, especially of coal. De Foe.

2. Charge for, or price of, measuring. Simmonds.

METAGENESIS
Met`a*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Pref. meta- + genesis.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: The change of form which one animal species undergoes in a
series of successively produced individuals, extending from the one
developed from the ovum to the final perfected individual. Hence,
metagenesis involves the production of sexual individuals by
nonsexual means, either directly or through intervening sexless
generations. Opposed to monogenesis. See Alternate generation, under
Generation.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Alternation of sexual and asexual or gemmiparous generations; -
- in distinction from heterogamy.

METAGENETIC
Met`a*ge*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to metagenesis.

METAGENIC
Met`a*gen"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Metagenetic.

METAGNATHOUS
Me*tag"na*thous, a. Etym: [Pref. meta- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Cross-billed; -- said of certain birds, as the crossbill.

METAGRAMMATISM
Met`a*gram"ma*tism, n.

Defn: Anagrammatism.

METAGRAPHIC
Met`a*graph"ic, a.

Defn: By or pertaining to metagraphy.

METAGRAPHY
Me*tag"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Pref. meta- + -graphy.]

Defn: The art or act of rendering the letters of the alphabet of one
language into the possible equivalents of another; transliteration.
Stormonth.

METAL
Met"al ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [F. métal, L. metallum metal, mine, Gr.
Mettle, Medal.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: An elementary substance, as sodium, calcium, or copper, whose
oxide or hydroxide has basic rather than acid properties, as
contrasted with the nonmetals, or metalloids. No sharp line can be
drawn between the metals and nonmetals, and certain elements partake
of both acid and basic qualities, as chromium, manganese, bismuth,
etc.

Note: Popularly, the name is applied to certain hard, fusible metals,
as gold, silver, copper, iron, tin, lead, zinc, nickel, etc., and
also to the mixed metals, or metallic alloys, as brass, bronze,
steel, bell metal, etc.

2. Ore from which a metal is derived; -- so called by miners.
Raymond.

3. A mine from which ores are taken. [Obs.]
Slaves . . . and persons condemned to metals. Jer. Taylor.

4. The substance of which anything is made; material; hence,
constitutional disposition; character; temper.
Not till God make men of some other metal than earth. Shak.

5. Courage; spirit; mettle. See Mettle. Shak.

Note: The allusion is to the temper of the metal of a sword blade.
Skeat.

6. The broken stone used in macadamizing roads and ballasting
railroads.

7. The effective power or caliber of guns carried by a vessel of war.

8. Glass in a state of fusion. Knight.

9. pl.

Defn: The rails of a railroad. [Eng.] Base metal (Chem.), any one of
the metals, as iron, lead, etc., which are readily tarnished or
oxidized, in contrast with the noble metals. In general, a metal of
small value, as compared with gold or silver.
 -- Fusible metal (Metal.), a very fusible alloy, usually consisting
of bismuth with lead, tin, or cadmium.
 -- Heavy metals (Chem.), the metallic elements not included in the
groups of the alkalies, alkaline earths, or the earths; specifically,
the heavy metals, as gold, mercury, platinum, lead, silver, etc.
 -- Light metals (Chem.), the metallic elements of the alkali and
alkaline earth groups, as sodium, lithium, calcium, magnesium, etc.;
also, sometimes, the metals of the earths, as aluminium.
 -- Muntz metal, an alloy for sheathing and other purposes,
consisting of about sixty per cent of copper, and forty of zinc.
Sometimes a little lead is added. It is named from the inventor.
 -- Prince's metal (Old Chem.), an alloy resembling brass, consisting
of three parts of copper to one of zinc; -- also called Prince
Rupert's metal.

METAL
Met"al, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Metaled ( or ) or Metalled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Metaling or Metalling.]

Defn: To cover with metal; as, to metal a ship's bottom; to metal a
road.

METALAMMONIUM
Met`al*am*mo"ni*um, n. Etym: [Metal + ammonium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical derived from ammonium by the
substitution of metallic atoms in place of hydrogen.

METALBUMIN
Met`al*bu"min, n. Etym: [Pref. met- + albumin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A form of albumin found in ascitic and certain serous fluids.
It is sometimes regarded as a mixture of albumin and mucin.

METALDEHYDE
Me*tal"de*hyde, n. Etym: [Pref. met- + aldehyde.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance isomeric with, and obtained from,
acetic aldehyde by polymerization, and reconvertible into the same.

METALEPSIS
Met`a*lep"sis, n.; pl. Metalepses. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: The continuation of a trope in one word through a succession of
significations, or the union of two or more tropes of a different
kind in one word.

METALEPSY
Met"a*lep`sy, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Exchange; replacement; substitution; metathesis. [R.]

METALEPTIC
Met`a*lep"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to a metalepsis.

2. Transverse; as, the metaleptic motion of a muscle.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, concerned in, or occurring by, metalepsy.

METALEPTICAL
Met`a*lep"tic*al, a.

Defn: Metaleptic.
 -- Met`a*lep"tic*al*ly, adv.

METALLIC
Me*tal"lic, a. Etym: [L. metallicus, fr. metallum: cf. F. métallique.
See Metal.]

1. Of or pertaining to a metal; of the nature of metal; resembling
metal; as, a metallic appearance; a metallic alloy.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or characterized by, the essential and
implied properties of a metal, as contrasted with a nonmetal or
metalloid; basic; antacid; positive. Metallic iron, iron in the state
of the metal, as distinquished from its ores, as magnetic iron.
 -- Metallic paper, paper covered with a thin solution of lime,
whiting, and size. When written upon with a pewter or brass pencil,
the lines can hardly be effaced.
 -- Metallic tinking (Med.), a sound heard in the chest, when a
cavity communicating with the air passages contains both air and
liquid.

METALLICAL
Me*tal"lic*al, a.

Defn: See Metallic. [Obs.]

METALLICLY
Me*tal"lic*ly, adv.

Defn: In a metallic manner; by metallic means.

METALLIFACTURE
Me*tal`li*fac"ture, n. Etym: [L. metallum metal + facere, factum, to
make.]

Defn: The production and working or manufacture of metals. [R.] R.
Park.

METALLIFEROUS
Met`al*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. metallifer; metallum metal + ferre to
bear: cf. F. métallifère.]

Defn: Producing metals; yielding metals.

METALLIFORM
Me*tal"li*form, a. Etym: [L. metallum metal + -form: cf. F.
métalliforme.]

Defn: Having the form or structure of a metal.

METALLINE
Met"al*line, a. Etym: [Cf. F. métallin.] (Chem.)
(a) Pertaining to, or resembling, a metal; metallic; as, metalline
properties.
(b) Impregnated with metallic salts; chalybeate; as, metalline water.
[R.]

METALLINE
Met"al*line ( or ), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance of variable composition, but resembling a soft,
dark-colored metal, used in the bearings of machines for obviating
friction, and as a substitute for lubricants.

METALLIST
Met"al*list, n.

Defn: A worker in metals, or one skilled in metals.

METALLIZATION
Met`al*li*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. métallisation.]

Defn: The act or process of metallizing. [R.]

METALLIZE
Met"al*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Metallized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Metallizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. métalliser.]

Defn: To impart metallic properties to; to impregnate with a metal.
[R.]

METALLOCHROME
Me*tal"lo*chrome, n. Etym: [See Metallochromy.]

Defn: A coloring produced by the deposition of some metallic
compound; specifically, the prismatic tints produced by depositing a
film of peroxide of lead on polished steel by electricity.

METALLOCHROMY
Me*tal"lo*chro`my, n. Etym: [L. metallum metal + Gr.

Defn: The art or process of coloring metals.

METALLOGRAPH
Me*tal"lo*graph, n. Etym: [L. metallum metal + -graph.]

Defn: A print made by metallography.

METALLOGRAPHIC
Me*tal`lo*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or by means of, metallography.

METALLOGRAPHIST
Met`al*log"ra*phist, n.

Defn: One who writes on the subject of metals.

METALLOGRAPHY
Met`al*log"ra*phy, n. Etym: [L. metallum metal + -graphy: cf. F.
métallographie.]

1. The science or art of metals and metal working; also, a treatise
on metals.

2. A method of transferring impressions of the grain of wood to
metallic surfaces by chemical action. Knight.

3. A substitute for lithography, in which metallic plates are used
instead of stone. Knight.

METALLOID
Met"al*loid, n. Etym: [L. metallum metal + -oid: cf. F. métalloïde.]
(a) Formerly, the metallic base of a fixed alkali, or alkaline earth;
-- applied by Sir H. Davy to sodium, potassium, and some other
metallic substances whose metallic character was supposed to be not
well defined.
(b) Now, one of several elementary substances which in the free state
are unlike metals, and whose compounds possess or produce acid,
rather than basic, properties; a nonmetal; as, boron, carbon,
phosphorus, nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur, chlorine, bromine, etc., are
metalloids.

METALLOID
Met"al*loid, a.

1. Having the appearance of a metal.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Having the properties of a nonmetal; nonmetallic; acid;
negative.

METALLOIDAL
Met`al*loid"al, a.

Defn: Metalloid.

METALLOPHONE
Me*tal"lo*phone, n. [L. metallum metal + Gr.  sound.] (Music)
 (a) An instrument like a pianoforte, but having metal bars instead
of strings.
 (b) An instrument like the xylophone, but having metallic instead of
wooden bars.

METALLORGANIC
Met`al*lor*gan"ic, a.

Defn: Metalorganic.

METALLOTHERAPY
Me*tal`lo*ther"a*py, n. Etym: [L. metallum metal + E. therapy.]
(Med.)

Defn: Treatment of disease by applying metallic plates to the surface
of the body.

METALLURGIC; METALLURGICAL
Met`al*lur"gic, Met`al*lur"gic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. métallurgique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to metallurgy.

METALLURGIST
Met"al*lur`gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. métallurgiste.]

Defn: One who works in metals, or prepares them for use; one who is
skilled in metallurgy.

METALLURGY
Met"al*lur`gy, n. Etym: [F. métallurgie, fr. L. metallum metal, Gr.
Metal, and Work.]

Defn: The art of working metals, comprehending the whole process of
separating them from other matters in the ore, smelting, refining,
and parting them; sometimes, in a narrower sense, only the process of
extracting metals from their ores.

METALMAN
Met"al*man, n.; pl. Metalmen (.

Defn: A worker in metals.

METALOGICAL
Met`a*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Beyond the scope or province of logic.

METALORGANIC
Met`al*or*gan"ic, a. Etym: [Metal, L. metallum + E. organic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or denoting, any one of a series of compounds of
certain metallic elements with organic radicals; as, zinc methyl,
sodium ethyl, etc. [Written also metallorganic.]

METAMER
Met"a*mer, n. Etym: [See Metamere.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of several metameric forms of the same substance, or of
different substances having the same composition; as, xylene has
three metamers, viz., orthoxylene, metaxylene, and paraxylene.

METAMERE
Met"a*mere, n. Etym: [Pref. meta- + -mere.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of successive or homodynamous parts in animals and plants;
one of a series of similar parts that follow one another in a
vertebrate or articulate animal, as in an earthworm; a segment; a
somite. See Illust. of Loeven's larva.

METAMERIC
Met`a*mer"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. meta- + Gr.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: Having the same elements united in the same proportion by
weight, and with the same molecular weight, but possessing a
different structure and different properties; as, methyl ether and
ethyl alcohol are metameric compounds. See Isomeric.

Note: The existence of metameric compounds is due to the different
arrangement of the same constituents in the molecule.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a metamere or its formation; as, metameric
segmentation.

METAMERICALLY
Met`a*mer"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a metameric manner.

METAMERISM
Me*tam"er*ism, n.

1. (Biol.)

Defn: The symmetry of a metameric structure; serial symmetry; the
state of being made up of metameres.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The state or quality of being metameric; also, the relation or
condition of metameric compounds.

METAMORPHIC
Met`a*mor"phic, a. Etym: [See Metamorphosis.]

1. Subject to change; changeable; variable.

2. Causing a change of structure.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, produced by, or exhibiting, certain changes
which minerals or rocks may have undergone since their original
deposition; -- especially applied to the recrystallization which
sedimentary rocks have undergone through the influence of heat and
pressure, after which they are called metamorphic rocks.

METAMORPHISM
Met`a*mor"phism, n. (Geol.)

Defn: The state or quality of being metamorphic; the process by which
the material of rock masses has been more or less recrystallized by
heat, pressure, etc., as in the change of sedimentary limestone to
marble. Murchison.

METAMORPHIST
Met`a*mor"phist, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: One who believes that the body of Christ was merged into the
Deity when he ascended.

METAMORPHIZE
Met`a*mor"phize, v. t.

Defn: To metamorphose.

METAMORPHOSE
Met`a*mor"phose, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Metamorphosed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Metamorphosing.] Etym: [Cf. F. métamorphoser.]

Defn: To change into a different form; to transform; to transmute.
And earth was metamorphosed into man. Dryden.

METAMORPHOSE
Met`a*mor"phose, n. Etym: [Cf. F. métamorphose. See Metamorphosis.]

Defn: Same as Metamorphosis.

METAMORPHOSER
Met`a*mor"pho*ser, n.

Defn: One who metamorphoses. [R.] Gascoigne.

METAMORPHOSIC
Met`a*mor"pho*sic, a.

Defn: Changing the form; transforming. [R.] Pownall.

METAMORPHOSIS
Met`a*mor"pho*sis, n.; pl. Metamorphoses. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. Change of form, or structure; transformation.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A change in the form or function of a living organism, by a
natural process of growth or development; as, the metamorphosis of
the yolk into the embryo, of a tadpole into a frog, or of a bud into
a blossom. Especially, that form of sexual reproduction in which an
embryo undergoes a series of marked changes of external form, as the
chrysalis stage, pupa stage, etc., in insects. In these intermediate
stages sexual reproduction is usually impossible, but they ultimately
pass into final and sexually developed forms, from the union of which
organisms are produced which pass through the same cycle of changes.
See Transformation.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: The change of material of one kind into another through the
agency of the living organism; metabolism. Vegetable metamorphosis
(Bot.), the doctrine that flowers are homologous with leaf buds, and
that the floral organs are transformed leaves.

METANAUPLIUS
Met`a*nau"pli*us, n. Etym: [NL. See Meta-, and Nauplius.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A larval crustacean in a stage following the nauplius, and
having about seven pairs of appendages.

METANEPHRITIC
Met`a*ne*phrit"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the metanephros.

METANEPHROS
Met`a*neph"ros, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The most posterior of the three pairs of embryonic renal organs
developed in many vertebrates.

METANOTUM
Met`a*no"tum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dorsal portion of the metaphorax of insects.

METANTIMONATE
Met`an*ti*mo"nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of metantimonic acid.

METANTIMONIC
Met`an*ti*mon"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. met- + antimonic.] (Chem.)
(a) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (formerly called antimonic
acid) analogous to metaphosphoric acid, and obtained as a white
amorphous insoluble substance, (HSbO3).
(b) Formerly, designating an acid, which is now properly called
pyroantimonic acid, and analogous to pyrophosphoric acid.

METAPECTIC
Met`a*pec"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. meta- + pectic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a supposed acid obtained from
pectin.

METAPECTIN
Met`a*pec"tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance obtained from, and resembling, pectin, and
occurring in overripe fruits.

METAPEPTONE
Met`a*pep"tone, n. Etym: [Pref. meta- + peptone.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: An intermediate product formed in the gastric digestion of
albuminous matter.

METAPHOR
Met"a*phor, n. Etym: [F. métaphore, L. metaphora, fr. Gr. meta`
beyond, over + fe`rein to bring, bear.] (Rhet.)

Defn: The transference of the relation between one set of objects to
another set for the purpose of brief explanation; a compressed
simile; e. g., the ship plows the sea. Abbott & Seeley. "All the
world's a stage." Shak.

Note: The statement, "that man is a fox," is a metaphor; but "that
man is like a fox," is a simile, similitude, or comparison.

METAPHORIC; METAPHORICAL
Met`a*phor"ic, Met`a*phor"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. métaphorique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to metaphor; comprising a metaphor; not
literal; figurative; tropical; as, a metaphorical expression; a
metaphorical sense.
 -- Met`a*phor"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Met`a*phor"ic*al*ness, n.

METAPHORIST
Met"a*phor*ist, n.

Defn: One who makes metaphors.

METAPHOSPHATE
Met`a*phos"phate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of metaphosphoric acid.

METAPHOSPHORIC
Met`a*phos*phor"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. meta- + phosphoric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a monobasic acid, HPO3,
analogous to nitric acid, and, by heating phosphoric acid, obtained
as a crystalline substance, commonly called glacial phosphoric acid.

METAPHRASE
Met"a*phrase, n. Etym: [Gr. meta`frasis, from metafrazein to
paraphrase; meta` beyond, over + fra`zein to speak: cf. F.
métaphrase.]

1. A verbal translation; a version or translation from one language
into another, word for word; -- opposed to paraphrase. Dryden.

2. An answering phrase; repartee. Mrs. Browning.

METAPHRASED
Met"a*phrased, a.

Defn: Translated literally.

METAPHRASIS
Me*taph"ra*sis, n. Etym: [NL. See Metaphrase.]

Defn: Metaphrase.

METAPHRAST
Met"a*phrast, n. Etym: [Gr. métaphraste.]

Defn: A literal translator.

METAPHRASTIC; METAPHRASTICAL
Met`a*phras"tic, Met`a*phras"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Close, or literal.

METAPHYSIC
Met`a*phys"ic, n. Etym: [Cf. F. métaphysique.]

Defn: See Metaphysics.

METAPHYSIC
Met`a*phys"ic, a.

Defn: Metaphysical.

METAPHYSICAL
Met`a*phys"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. métaphysique. See Metaphysics.]

1. Of or pertaining to metaphysics.

2. According to rules or principles of metaphysics; as, metaphysical
reasoning.

3. Preternatural or supernatural. [Obs.]
The golden round *Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem To have
thee crowned withal. Shak.

METAPHYSICALLY
Met`a*phys"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of metaphysical science, or of a metaphysician.
South.

METAPHYSICIAN
Met`a*phy*si"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. métaphysicien.]

Defn: One who is versed in metaphysics.

METAPHYSICS
Met`a*phys"ics, n. Etym: [Gr. métaphysique. See Physics. The term was
first used by the followers of Aristotle as a name for that part of
his writings which came after, or followed, the part which treated of
physics.]

1. The science of real as distinguished from phenomenal being;
ontology; also, the science of being, with reference to its abstract
and universal conditions, as distinguished from the science of
determined or concrete being; the science of the conceptions and
relations which are necessarily implied as true of every kind of
being; phylosophy in general; first principles, or the science of
first principles.

Note: Metaphysics is distinguished as general and special. General
metaphysics is the science of all being as being. Special metaphysics
is the science of one kind of being; as, the metaphysics of
chemistry, of morals, or of politics. According to Kant, a systematic
exposition of those notions and truths, the knowledge of which is
altogether independent of experience, would constitute the science of
metaphysics.
Commonly, in the schools, called metaphysics, as being part of the
philosophy of Aristotle, which hath that for title; but it is in
another sense: for there it signifieth as much as "books written or
placed after his natural philosophy." But the schools take them for
"books of supernatural philosophy;" for the word metaphysic will bear
both these senses. Hobbes.
Now the science conversant about all such inferences of unknown being
from its known manifestations, is called ontology, or metaphysics
proper. Sir W. Hamilton.
Metaphysics are [is] the science which determines what can and what
can not be known of being, and the laws of being, a priori.
Coleridge.

2. Hence: The scientific knowledge of mental phenomena; mental
philosophy; psychology.
Metaphysics, in whatever latitude the term be taken, is a science or
complement of sciences exclusively occupied with mind. Sir W.
Hamilton.
Whether, after all, A larger metaphysics might not help Our physics.
Mrs. Browning.

METAPHYSIS
Me*taph"y*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: Change of form; transformation.

METAPLASM
Met"a*plasm, n. Etym: [L. metaplasmus, Gr. métaplasme.] (Gram.)

Defn: A change in the letters or syllables of a word.

METAPLAST
Met"a*plast, n. Etym: [See Metaplasm.] (Gram.)

Defn: A word having more than one form of the root.

METAPODE
Met"a*pode, n. Etym: [NL. metapodium, from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The posterior division of the foot in the Gastropoda and
Pteropoda.

METAPODIAL
Met`a*po"di*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the metapodialia, or to the parts of the
limbs to which they belong.

METAPODIALE
Met`a*po`di*a"le, n.; pl. Metapodialia. Etym: [NL. See Metapode.]
(Anat.)

Defn: One of the bones of either the metacarpus or metatarsus.

METAPODIUM
Met`a*po"di*um, n.; pl. Metapodia. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Metapode.

METAPOPHYSIS
Met`a*poph"y*sis, n.; pl. Metapophyses. Etym: [NL. See Meta-, and
Apophysis.] (Anat.)

Defn: A tubercle projecting from the anterior articular processes of
some vertebræ; a mammillary process.

METAPTERYGIUM
Me*tap`te*ryg"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The posterior of the three principal basal cartilages in the
fins of fishes.
 -- Me*tap`ter*yg"i*al, a.

METASILICATE
Met`a*sil"i*cate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of metasilicic acid.

METASILICIC
Met`a*si*lic"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. meta- + silicic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Designating an acid derived from silicic acid by the removal of
water; of or pertaining to such an acid.

Note: The salts of metasilicic acid are often called bisilicates, in
mineralogy, as Wollastonite (CaSiO3). Metasilicic acid (Chem.), a
gelatinous substance, or white amorphous powder, analogous to
carbonic acid, and forming many stable salts.

METASOMATISM
Met`a*so"ma*tism, n. Etym: [Pref. meta- + Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: An alteration in a mineral or rock mass when involving a
chemical change of the substance, as of chrysolite to serpentine; --
opposed to ordinary metamorphism, as implying simply a
recrystallization.
 -- Met`a*so*mat"ic, a.

METASOME
Met"a*some, n. Etym: [Pref. meta- + -some body.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the component segments of the body of an animal.

METASTANNATE
Met`a*stan"nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of metastannic acid.

METASTANNIC
Met`a*stan"nic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a compound of tin (metastannic
acid), obtained, as an isomeric modification of stannic acid, in the
form of a white amorphous substance.

METASTASIS
Me*tas"ta*sis, n.; pl. Metastases. Etym: [L., transition, fr. Gr.

1. (Theol.)

Defn: A spiritual change, as during baptism.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A change in the location of a disease, as from one part to
another. Dunglison.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: The act or process by which matter is taken up by cells or
tissues and is transformed into other matter; in plants, the act or
process by which are produced all of those chemical changes in the
constituents of the plant which are not accompanied by a production
of organic matter; metabolism.

METASTATIC
Met`a*stat"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or caused by, metastasis; as, a metastatic
abscess; the metastatic processes of growth.

METASTERNAL
Met`a*ster"nal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the metasternum.

METASTERNUM
Met`a*ster"num, n. Etym: [Pref. meta- + sternum.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The most posterior element of the sternum; the ensiform
process; xiphisternum.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ventral plate of the third or last segment of the thorax of
insects.

METASTOMA; METASTOME
Me*tas"to*ma, Met"a*stome, n. Etym: [NL. metastoma, from Gr. meta`
behind + sto`ma mouth.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A median elevation behind the mouth in the arthropods.

METATARSAL
Met`a*tar"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the metatarsus.
 -- n.

Defn: A metatarsal bone.

METATARSE
Met"a*tarse, n. (Anat.)

Defn: Metatarsus.

METATARSUS
Met`a*tar"sus, n.; pl. Metatarsi. Etym: [NL. See Meta-, and Tarsus.]
(Anat.)

Defn: That part of the skeleton of the hind or lower limb between the
tarsus and phalanges; metatarse. It consists, in the human foot, of
five bones. See Illustration in Appendix.

METATE
Me*ta"te, n. [Sp., fr. Mex. metlatl.]

Defn: A flat or somewhat hollowed stone upon which grain or other
food is ground, by means of a smaller stone or pestle. [Southwestern
U. S. & Sp. Amer.]

METATHESIS
Me*tath"e*sis, n.; pl. Metatheses (. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. meta`thesis,
fr. metatithe`nai to place differently, to transpose; meta` beyond,
over + tithe`nai to place, set. See Thesis.]

1. (Gram.)

Defn: Transposition, as of the letters or syllables of a word; as,
pistris for pristis; meagre for meager.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A mere change in place of a morbid substance, without removal
from the body.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: The act, process, or result of exchange, substitution, or
replacement of atoms and radicals; thus, by metathesis an acid gives
up all or part of its hydrogen, takes on an equivalent amount of a
metal or base, and forms a salt.

METATHETIC; METATHETICAL
Met`a*thet"ic, Met`a*thet"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to metathesis.

METATHORACIC
Met`a*tho*rac"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the metathorax.

METATHORAX
Met`a*tho"rax, n. Etym: [NL.: cf. F. métathorax. See Meta-, and
Thorax.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The last or posterior segment of the thorax in insects. See
Illust. of Coleoptera.

METATITANIC
Met`a*ti*tan"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. meta- + titanic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of titanium
analogous to metasilicic acid.

METATUNGSTATE
Met`a*tung"state, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of metatungstic acid.

METATUNGSTIC
Met`a*tung"stic, a. Etym: [Pref. meta- + tungstic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid known only in its
salts (the metatungstates) and properly called polytungstic, or
pyrotungstic, acid.

METAVANADATE
Met`a*van"a*date, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of metavanadic acid.

METAVANADIC
Met`a*va*nad"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. meta- + vanadic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a vanadic acid analogous to
metaphosphoric acid.

METAXYLENE
Met`a*xy"lene, n. Etym: [Pref. meta- + xylene.] (Chem.)

Defn: That variety of xylene, or dimethyl benzene, in which the two
methyl groups occupy the meta position with reference to each other.
It is a colorless inf

METAYAGE
Mé`ta`yage", n. Etym: [F. See Métayer.]

Defn: A system of farming on halves. [France & Italy]

METAYER
Mé`ta`yer" (F. ; E. ), n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. medietarius, fr. L.
medius middle, half. See Mid, a.]

Defn: One who cultivates land for a share (usually one half) of its
yield, receiving stock, tools, and seed from the landlord. [France &
Italy] Milman.

METAZOA
Met`a*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Those animals in which the protoplasmic mass, constituting the
egg, is converted into a multitude of cells, which are metamorphosed
into the tissues of the body. A central cavity is commonly developed,
and the cells around it are at first arranged in two layers, -- the
ectoderm and endoderm. The group comprises nearly all animals except
the Protozoa.

METAZOAN
Met`a*zo"an, n.; pl. Metazoans (. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Metazoa.

METAZOIC
Met`a*zo"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Metazoa.

METAZOON; METAZOOEN
Met`a*zo"ön, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Metazoa.

METE
Mete, n.

Defn: Meat. [Obs.] Chaucer.

METE
Mete, v. t. & i.

Defn: To meet. [Obs.] Chaucer.

METE
Mete, v. i. & t. [imp. Mette; p. p. Met.] Etym: [AS. m.]

Defn: To dream; also impersonally; as, me mette, I dreamed. [Obs.] "I
mette of him all night." Chaucer.

METE
Mete, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Meted; p. pr. & vb. n. Meting.] Etym: [AS.
metan; akin to D. meten, G. messen, OHG. mezzan, Icel. meta, Sw.
mäta, Goth. mitan, L. modus measure, moderation, modius a corn
measure, Gr. measure, L. metiri to measure; cf. Skr. ma to measure.
sq. root99. Cf. Measure, Meet, a., Mode.]

Defn: To find the quantity, dimensions, or capacity of, by any rule
or standard; to measure.

METE
Mete, v. i.

Defn: To measure. [Obs.] Mark iv. 24.

METE
Mete, n. Etym: [AS. met. See Mete to measure.]

Defn: Measure; limit; boundary; -- used chiefly in the plural, and in
the phrase metes and bounds.

METECORN
Mete"corn`, n.

Defn: A quantity of corn formerly given by the lord to his customary
tenants, as an encouragement to, or reward for, labor and faithful
service.

METELY
Mete"ly, a.

Defn: According to measure or proportion; proportionable;
proportionate. [Obs.]

METEMPIRIC; METEMPIRICAL
Met`em*pir"ic, Met`em*pir"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. met- + empiric, -
ical.] (Metaph.)

Defn: Related, or belonging, to the objects of knowledge within the
province of metempirics.
If then the empirical designates the province we include within the
range of science, the province we exclude may be fitly styled the
metempirical. G. H. Lewes.

METEMPIRICISM
Met*em*pir"i*cism, n.

Defn: The science that is concerned with metempirics.

METEMPIRICS
Met`em*pir"ics, n.

Defn: The concepts and relations which are conceived as beyond, and
yet as related to, the knowledge gained by experience.

METEMPSYCHOSE
Me*temp"sy*chose, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Metempsychosed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Metempsychosing.] Etym: [See Metempsychosis.]

Defn: To translate or transfer, as the soul, from one body to
another. [R.] Peacham.

METEMPSYCHOSIS
Me*temp`sy*cho"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Psychology.]

Defn: The passage of the soul, as an immortal essence, at the death
of the animal body it had inhabited, into another living body,
whether of a brute or a human being; transmigration of souls. Sir T.
Browne.

METEMPTOSIS
Met`emp*to"sis, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Chron.)

Defn: The suppression of a day in the calendar to prevent the date of
the new moon being set a day too late, or the suppression of the
bissextile day once in 134 years. The opposite to this is the
proemptosis, or the addition of a day every 330 years, and another
every 2,400 years.

METENCEPHALON
Met`en*ceph"a*lon, n. Etym: [Met- + encephalon.] (Anat.)

Defn: The posterior part of the brain, including the medulla; the
afterbrain. Sometimes abbreviated to meten.

METENSOMATOSIS
Met`en*so`ma*to"sis, n. Etym: [L., a change of body (by the soul),
fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The assimilation by one body or organism of the elements of
another.

METEOR
Me"te*or, n. Etym: [F. météore, Gr.

1. Any phenomenon or appearance in the atmosphere, as clouds, rain,
hail, snow, etc.
Hail, an ordinary meteor. Bp. Hall.

2. Specif.: A transient luminous body or appearance seen in the
atmosphere, or in a more elevated region.
The vaulty top of heaven Figured quite o'er with burning meteors.
Shak.

Note: The term is especially applied to fireballs, and the masses of
stone or other substances which sometimes fall to the earth; also to
shooting stars and to ignes fatui. Meteors are often classed as:
aerial meteors, winds, tornadoes, etc.; aqueous meteors, rain, hail,
snow, dew, etc.; luminous meteors, rainbows, halos, etc.; and igneous
meteors, lightning, shooting stars, and the like.

METEORIC
Me`te*or"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. météorique.]

1. Of or pertaining to a meteor, or to meteors; atmospheric, as,
meteoric phenomena; meteoric stones.

2. Influenced by the weather; as, meteoric conditions.

3. Flashing; brilliant; transient; like a meteor; as, meteoric fame.
"Meteoric politician." Craik. Meteoric iron, Meteoric stone. (Min.)
See Meteorite.
 -- Meteoric paper, a substance of confervoid origin found floating
in the air, and resembling bits of coarse paper; -- so called because
formerly supposed to fall from meteors.
 -- Meteoric showers, periodical exhibitions of shooting stars,
occuring about the 9th or 10th of August and 13th of November, more
rarely in April and December, and also at some other periods.

METEORICAL
Me`te*or"ic*al, a.

Defn: Meteoric.

METEORISM
Me"te*or*ism, n. (Med.)

Defn: Flatulent distention of the abdomen; tympanites.

METEORITE
Me"te*or*ite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. météorite.] (Min.)

Defn: A mass of stone or iron which has fallen to the earth from
space; an aërolite.

Note: Meteorites usually show a pitted surface with a fused crust,
caused by the heat developed in their rapid passage through the
earth's atmosphere. A meteorite may consist: 1. Of metallic iron,
alloyed with a small percentage of nickel (meteoric iron,
holosiderite). When etched this usually exhibits peculiar crystalline
figures, called Widmanstätten figures. 2. Of a cellular mass of iron
with imbedded silicates (mesosiderite or siderolite). 3. Of a stony
mass of silicates with little iron (meteoric stone, sporadosiderite).
4. Of a mass without iron (asiderite).

METEORIZE
Me"te*or*ize, v. i. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To ascend in vapors; to take the form of a meteor. Evelyn.

METEOROGRAPH
Me`te*or"o*graph, n. Etym: [Meteor + -graph.]

Defn: An instrument which registers meteorologic phases or
conditions.

METEOROGRAPHIC
Me`te*or`o*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to meteorography.

METEOROGRAPHY
Me`te*or*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Meteor + -graphy.]

Defn: The registration of meteorological phenomena.

METEOROID
Me"te*or*oid, n. Etym: [Meteor + -oid.] (Astron.)

Defn: A small body moving through space, or revolving about the sun,
which on entering the earth's atmosphere would be deflagrated and
appear as a meteor.
These bodies [small, solid bodies] before they come into the air, I
call meteoroids. H. A. Newton.

METEOROIDAL
Me`te*or*oid"al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a meteoroid or to meteoroids.

METEOROLITE
Me`te*or"o*lite, n. Etym: [Meteor + -lite : cf. F. météorolithe.]

Defn: A meteoric stone; an aërolite; a meteorite.

METEOROLOGIC; METEOROLOGICAL
Me`te*or`o*log"ic, Me`te*or`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.
météorologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the atmosphere and its phenomena, or to
meteorology. Meteorological table, Meteorological register, a table
or register exhibiting the state of the air and its temperature,
weight, dryness, moisture, motion, etc.

METEOROLOGIST
Me`te*or*ol"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. météorologiste.]

Defn: A person skilled in meteorology.

METEOROLOGY
Me`te*or*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. météorologie. See Meteor.]

Defn: The science which treats of the atmosphere and its phenomena,
particularly of its variations of heat and moisture, of its winds,
storms, etc.

METEOROMANCY
Me`te*or"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Meteor + -mancy : cf. F. météoromancie.]

Defn: A species of divination by meteors, chiefly by thunder and
lightning, which was held in high estimation by the Romans.

METEOROMETER
Me`te*or*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Meteor + -meter.]

Defn: An apparatus which transmits automatically to a central station
atmospheric changes as marked by the anemometer, barometer,
thermometer, etc.

METEOROSCOPE
Me`te*or"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. météoroscope. See Meteor.] (Astron.)
(a) An astrolabe; a planisphere. [Obs.]
(b) An instrument for measuring the position, length, and direction,
of the apparent path of a shooting star.

METEOROUS
Me*te"o*rous ( or ), a. Etym: [See Meteor.]

Defn: Of the nature or appearance of a meteor.

-METER
-me"ter. Etym: [L. metrum measure, or the allied Gr. Meter rhythm.]

Defn: A suffix denoting that by which anything is measured; as,
barometer, chronometer, dynamometer.

METER
Me"ter, n. Etym: [From Mete to measure.]

1. One who, or that which, metes or measures. See Coal-meter.

2. An instrument for measuring, and usually for recording
automatically, the quantity measured. Dry meter, a gas meter having
measuring chambers, with flexible walls, which expand and contract
like bellows and measure the gas by filling and emptying.
 -- W, a gas meter in which the revolution of a chambered drum in
water measures the gas passing through it.

METER
Me"ter, n.

Defn: A line above or below a hanging net, to which the net is
attached in order to strengthen it.

METER; METRE
Me"ter, Me"tre, n. Etym: [OE. metre, F. mètre, L. metrum, fr. Gr. ma
to measure. See Mete to measure.]

1. Rhythmical arrangement of syllables or words into verses, stanzas,
strophes, etc.; poetical measure, depending on number, quantity, and
accent of syllables; rhythm; measure; verse; also, any specific
rhythmical arrangements; as, the Horatian meters; a dactylic meter.
The only strict antithesis to prose is meter. Wordsworth.

2. A poem. [Obs.] Robynson (More's Utopia).

3. A measure of length, equal to 39.37 English inches, the standard
of linear measure in the metric system of weights and measures. It
was intended to be, and is very nearly, the ten millionth part of the
distance from the equator to the north pole, as ascertained by actual
measurement of an arc of a meridian. See Metric system, under Metric.
Common meter (Hymnol.), four iambic verses, or lines, making a
stanza, the first and third having each four feet, and the second and
fourth each three feet; -- usually indicated by the initials C.M.
 -- Long meter (Hymnol.), iambic verses or lines of four feet each,
four verses usually making a stanza; -- commonly indicated by the
initials L.M.
 -- Short meter (Hymnol.), iambic verses or lines, the first, second,
and fourth having each three feet, and the third four feet. The
stanza usually consists of four lines, but is sometimes doubled.
Short meter is indicated by the initials S.M.

METERAGE
Me"ter*age, n. Etym: [See 1st Meter.]

Defn: The act of measuring, or the cost of measuring.

METERGRAM
Me"ter*gram`, n. (Mech.)

Defn: A measure of energy or work done; the power exerted in raising
one gram through the distance of one meter against gravitation.

METEWAND
Mete"wand`, n. Etym: [Mete to measure + wand.]

Defn: A measuring rod. Ascham.

METEYARD
Mete"yard`, n. Etym: [AS. metgeard. See Mete to measure, and Yard
stick.]

Defn: A yard, staff, or rod, used as a measure. [Obs.] Shak.

METH
Meth, n.

Defn: See Meathe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

METHAEMOGLOBIN
Met`hæm*o*glo"bin ( or ), n. Etym: [Pref. met- + h.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A stable crystalline compound obtained by the decomposition of
hemoglobin. It is found in old blood stains.

METHAL
Meth"al, n. Etym: [Myristic + ether + alcohol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white waxy substance, found in small quantities in spermaceti
as an ethereal salt of several fatty acids, and regarded as an
alcohol of the methane series.

METHANE
Meth"ane, n. Etym: [See Methal.] (Chem.)

Defn: A light, colorless, gaseous, inflammable hydrocarbon, CH4;
marsh gas. See Marsh gas, under Gas. Methane series (Chem.), a series
of saturated hydrocarbons, of which methane is the first member and
type, and (because of their general chemical inertness and
indifference) called also the paraffin (little affinity) series. The
lightest members are gases, as methane, ethane; intermediate members
are liquids, as hexane, heptane, etc. (found in benzine, kerosene,
etc.); while the highest members are white, waxy, or fatty solids, as
paraffin proper.

METHANOMETER
Meth`a*nom"e*ter, n. [Methane + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument, resembling a eudiometer, to detect the presence
and amount of methane, as in coal mines.

METHEGLIN
Me*theg"lin, n. Etym: [W. meddyglyn; medd mead + llyn liquor, juice.
See Mead a drink.]

Defn: A fermented beverage made of honey and water; mead. Gay.

METHENE
Meth"ene, n. Etym: [Methyl + ethylene.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Methylene.

METHENYL
Meth"e*nyl, n. Etym: [Methene + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The hypothetical hydrocarbon radical CH, regarded as an
essential residue of certain organic compounds.

METHIDE
Meth"ide ( or ), n. Etym: [See Methyl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound of methyl with some element; as, aluminium
methide, Al2(CH3)6.

METHINKS
Me*thinks", v. impers. [imp. Methought.] Etym: [AS. þyncan to seem,
me þynceedh, me þuhte, OE. me thinketh, me thoughte; akin to G.
dünken to seem, denken to think, and E. think. See Me, and Think.]

Defn: It seems to me; I think. See Me. [R., except in poetry.]
In all ages poets have been had in special reputation, and, methinks,
not without great cause. Spenser.

METHIONATE
Me*thi"on*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of methionic acid.

METHIONIC
Meth`i*on"ic, a. Etym: [Methyl + thionic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphonic (thionic) acid
derivative of methane, obtained as a stable white crystalline
substance, CH2.(SO3H)2, which forms well defined salts.

METHOD
Meth"od, n. Etym: [F. méthode, L. methodus, fr. Gr. meqodos method,
investigation following after; meta` after + "odo`s way.]

1. An orderly procedure or process; regular manner of doing anything;
hence, manner; way; mode; as, a method of teaching languages; a
method of improving the mind. Addison.

2. Orderly arrangement, elucidation, development, or classification;
clear and lucid exhibition; systematic arrangement peculiar to an
individual.
Though this be madness, yet there's method in it. Shak.
All method is a rational progress, a progress toward an end. Sir W.
Hamilton.

3. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Classification; a mode or system of classifying natural objects
according to certain common characteristics; as, the method of
Theophrastus; the method of Ray; the Linnæan method.

Syn.
 -- Order; system; rule; regularity; way; manner; mode; course;
process; means.
 -- Method, Mode, Manner. Method implies arrangement; mode, mere
action or existence. Method is a way of reaching a given end by a
series of acts which tend to secmode relates to a single action, or
to the form which a series of acts, viewed as a whole, exhibits.
Manner is literally the handling of a thing, and has a wider sense,
embracing both method and mode. An instructor may adopt a good method
of teaching to write; the scholar may acquire a bad mode of holding
his pen; the manner in which he is corrected will greatly affect his
success or failure.

METHODIC; METHODICAL
Me*thod"ic, Me*thod"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. methodicus, Gr. méthodique.]

1. Arranged with regard to method; disposed in a suitable manner, or
in a manner to illustrate a subject, or to facilitate practical
observation; as, the methodical arrangement of arguments; a
methodical treatise. "Methodical regularity." Addison.

2. Proceeding with regard to method; systematic. "Aristotle, strict,
methodic, and orderly." Harris.

3. Of or pertaining to the ancient school of physicians called
methodists. Johnson.
 -- Me*thod"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Me*thod"ic*al*ness, n.

METHODIOS
Me*thod"ios, n.

Defn: The art and principles of method.

METHODISM
Meth"o*dism, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: The system of doctrines, polity, and worship, of the sect
called Methodists. Bp. Warburton.

METHODIST
Meth"o*dist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. méthodiste. See Method.]

1. One who observes method. [Obs.]

2. One of an ancient school of physicians who rejected observation
and founded their practice on reasoning and theory. Sir W. Hamilton.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: One of a sect of Christians, the outgrowth of a small
association called the "Holy Club," formed at Oxford University, A.D.
1729, of which the most conspicuous members were John Wesley and his
brother Charles; -- originally so called from the methodical
strictness of members of the club in all religious duties.

4. A person of strict piety; one who lives in the exact observance of
religious duties; -- sometimes so called in contempt or ridicule.

METHODIST
Meth"o*dist, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sect of Methodists; as, Methodist
hymns; a Methodist elder.

METHODISTIC; METHODISTICAL
Meth`o*dis"tic, Meth`o*dis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to methodists, or to the Methodists.
 -- Meth`o*dis"tic*al*ly, adv.

METHODIZATION
Meth`od*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of methodizing, or the state of being
methodized.

METHODIZE
Meth"od*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Methodized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Methodizing.]

Defn: To reduce to method; to dispose in due order; to arrange in a
convenient manner; as, to methodize one's work or thoughts.
Spectator.

METHODIZER
Meth"od*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who methodizes.

METHODOLOGICAL
Meth`od*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to methodology.

METHODOLOGY
Meth`od*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of method or arrangement; a treatise on method.
Coleridge.

METHOL
Meth"ol, n. Etym: [Gr. -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: The technical name of methyl alcohol or wood spirit; also, by
extension, the class name of any of the series of alcohols of the
methane series of which methol proper is the type. See Methyl
alcohol, under Methyl.

METHOUGHT
Me*thought", imp.

Defn: of Methinks.

METHOXYL
Meth*ox"yl, n. Etym: [Methyl + hydroxyl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical, CH3O, analogous to hydroxyl.

METHYL
Meth"yl, n. Etym: [See Methylene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon radical, CH3, not existing alone but regarded as
an essential residue of methane, and appearing as a component part of
many derivatives; as, methyl alcohol, methyl ether, methyl amine,
etc. [Formerly written also methule, methyle, etc.] Methyl alcohol
(Chem.), a light, volatile, inflammable liquid, CH3.OH, obtained by
the distillation of wood, and hence called wood spirit; -- called
also methol, carbinol, etc.
 -- Methyl amine (Chem.), a colorless, inflammable, alkaline gas,
CH3.NH2, having an ammoniacal, fishy odor. It is produced
artificially, and also occurs naturally in herring brine and other
fishy products. It is regarded as ammonia in which a third of its
hydrogen is replaced by methyl, and is a type of the class of
substituted ammonias.
 -- Methyl ether (Chem.), a light, volatile ether CH3.O.CH3, obtained
by the etherification of methyl alcohol; -- called also methyl oxide.
 -- Methyl green. (Chem.) See under Green, n.
 -- Methyl orange. (Chem.) See Helianthin.
 -- Methyl violet (Chem.), an artificial dye, consisting of certain
methyl halogen derivatives of rosaniline.

METHYLAL
Meth"yl*al, n. Etym: [Methylene + alcohol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A light, volatile liquid, H2C(OCH3)2, regarded as a complex
ether, and having a pleasant ethereal odor. It is obtained by the
partial oxidation of methyl alcohol. Called also formal.

METHYLAMINE
Meth`yl*am"ine ( or ), n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Methyl amine, under Methyl.

METHYLATE
Meth"yl*ate, n. Etym: [Methyl + alcoholate.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alcoholate of methyl alcohol in which the hydroxyl hydrogen
is replaced by a metal, after the analogy of a hydrate; as, sodium
methylate, CH3ONa.

METHYLATE
Meth"yl*ate, v. t.

Defn: To impregnate or mix with methyl or methyl alcohol.

METHYLATED
Meth"yl*a`ted, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Impregnated with, or containing, methyl alcohol or wood spirit;
as, methylated spirits.

METHYLENE
Meth"yl*ene, n. Etym: [F. méthylène, from Gr. wood spirit.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon radical, CH2, not known in the free state, but
regarded as an essential residue and component of certain derivatives
of methane; as, methylene bromide, CH2Br2; -- formerly called also
methene. Methylene blue (Chem.), an artificial dyestuff consisting of
a complex sulphur derivative of diphenyl amine; -- called also pure
blue.

METHYLIC
Me*thyl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, methyl;
specifically, designating methyl alcohol. See under Methyl.

METHYSTICIN
Me*thys"ti*cin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, silky, crystalline substance extracted from the thick
rootstock of a species of pepper (Piper methysticum) of the South Sea
Islands; -- called also kanakin.

METIC
Met"ic ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [Gr. metoecus, F. métèque.] (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A sojourner; an immigrant; an alien resident in a Grecian city,
but not a citizen. Mitford.
The whole force of Athens, metics as well as citizens, and all the
strangers who were then in the city. Jowett (Thucyd. ).

METICULOUS
Me*tic"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. meticulosus, fr. metus fear: cf. F.
méticuleux.]

Defn: Timid; fearful.
 -- Me*tic"u*lous*ly, adv.

METIER
Mé`tier", n. [F.]

Defn: Calling; vocation; business; trade.

Not only is it the business of no one to preach the truth but it is
the métier of many to conceal it.
A. R. Colquhoun.

METIF; METIVE
Mé`tif", n. m. Mé`tive", n. f.Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Métis.

METIS; METISSE
Mé`tis", n. m. Mé`tisse", n. f.Etym: [F.; akin to Sp. mestizo. See
Mestizo.]

1. The offspring of a white person and an American Indian.

2. The offspring of a white person and a quadroon; an octoroon.
[Local, U. S.] Bartlett.

METOCHE
Met"o*che, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Arch.)
(a) The space between two dentils.
(b) The space between two triglyphs.

METOL
Me"tol, n. [G.; trade name, fr. meta- + kresol cresol.]

Defn: A whitish soluble powder used as a developer in photography.
Chemically, it is the sulphate of methyl-p-amino-m-cresol.

METONIC
Me*ton"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. métonique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or discovered by, Meton, the Athenian. Metonic
cycle or year. (Astron.) See under Cycle.

METONYMIC; METONYMICAL
Met`o*nym"ic, Met`o*nym"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Metonymy.]

Defn: Used by way of metonymy.
 -- Met`o*nym"ic*al*ly, adv.

METONYMY
Me*ton"y*my, n. Etym: [L. metonymia, Gr. métonymie. See Name.]
(Rhet.)

Defn: A trope in which one word is put for another that suggests it;
as, we say, a man keeps a good table instead of good provisions; we
read Virgil, that is, his poems; a man has a warm heart, that is,
warm affections.

METOPE
Met"o*pe, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: The space between two triglyphs of the Doric frieze, which,
among the ancients, was often adorned with carved work. See Illust.
of Entablature.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The face of a crab.

Note: In the Parthenon, groups of centaurs and heroes in high relief
occupy the metopes.

METOPIC
Me*top"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the forehead or frontal bones; frontal; as,
the metopic suture.

METOPOMANCY
Met"o*po*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Fortune telling by physiognomy. [R.] Urquhart.

METOPOSCOPIC; METOPOSCOPICAL
Met`o*po*scop"ic, Met`o*po*scop"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or relating to metoposcopy.

METOPOSCOPIST
Met`o*pos"co*pist, n.

Defn: One versed in metoposcopy.

METOPOSCOPY
Met`o*pos"co*py, n. Etym: [Gr. métoposcopie.]

Defn: The study of physiognomy; the art of discovering the character
of persons by their features, or the lines of the face.

METOSTEON
Me*tos"te*on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The postero-lateral ossification in the sternum of birds; also,
the part resulting from such ossification.

METRE
Me"tre, n.

Defn: See Meter.

METRIC
Met"ric, a. Etym: [L. metricus, Gr. métrique. See Meter rhythm.]

1. Relating to measurement; involving, or proceeding by, measurement.

2. Of or pertaining to the meter as a standard of measurement; of or
pertaining to the decimal system of measurement of which a meter is
the unit; as, the metric system; a metric measurement. Metric
analysis (Chem.), analysis by volume; volumetric analysis.
 -- Metric system, a system of weights and measures originating in
France, the use of which is required by law in many countries, and
permitted in many others, including the United States and England.
The principal unit is the meter (see Meter). From this are formed the
are, the liter, the stere, the gram, etc. These units, and others
derived from them, are divided decimally, and larger units are formed
from multiples by 10, 100, 1,000, and 10,000. The successive
multiplies are designated by the prefixes, deca-, hecto-, kilo-, and
myria-; successive parts by deci-, centi-, and milli-. The prefixes
mega- and micro- are sometimes used to denote a multiple by one
million, and the millionth part, respectively. See the words formed
with these prefixes in the Vocabulary. For metric tables, see p.
1682.

METRICAL
Met"ric*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the meter; arranged in meter; consisting of
verses; as, metrical compositions.

2. Of or pertaining to measurement; as, the inch, foot, yard, etc.,
are metrical terms; esp., of or pertaining to the metric system.

METRICALLY
Met"ric*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a metrical manner.

METRICIAN
Me*tri"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. métricien. See Meter rhythm.]

Defn: A composer of verses. [Obs.]

METRIC SYSTEM
Met"ric sys"tem.

Defn: See Metric, a.

METRIC TON
Met"ric ton.

Defn: A weight of 1,000 kilograms, or 2,204.6 pounds avoirdupois.

METRIFICATION
Met`ri*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Composition in metrical form; versification. [R.] Tennyson.

METRIFY
Met"ri*fy, v. i. Etym: [L. metrum meter + -fy: cf. F. métrifier.]

Defn: To make verse. [R.] Skelton.

METRIST
Me"trist, n.

Defn: A maker of verses. Bale.
Spenser was no mere metrist, but a great composer. Lowell.

METRITIS
Me*tri"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -tis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the womb.

METROCHROME
Met"ro*chrome, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An instrument for measuring colors.

METROGRAPH
Met"ro*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: An instrument attached to a locomotive for recording its speed
and the number and duration of its stops.

METROLOGICAL
Met`ro*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. métrologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to metrology.

METROLOGY
Me*trol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -métrologie.]

Defn: The science of, or a system of, weights and measures; also, a
treatise on the subject.

METROMANIA
Met`ro*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Gr. mania.]

Defn: A mania for writing verses.

METROMANIAC
Met`ro*ma"ni*ac, n.

Defn: One who has metromania.

METROMETER
Me*trom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Med.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the size of the womb. Knight.

METRONOME
Met"ro*nome, n. Etym: [Gr. métronome, It. metronomo.]

Defn: An instrument consisting of a short pendulum with a sliding
weight. It is set in motion by clockwork, and serves to measure time
in music.

METRONOMY
Me*tron"o*my, n. Etym: [See Metronome.]

Defn: Measurement of time by an instrument.

METRONYMIC
Met`ro*nym"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Derived from the name of one's mother, or other female
ancestor; as, a metronymic name or appellation.
 -- A metronymic appellation.

METROPOLE
Met"ro*pole, n. Etym: [Cf. F. métropole. See Metropolis.]

Defn: A metropolis. [Obs.] Holinshed.

METROPOLIS
Me*trop"o*lis, n. Etym: [L. metropolis, Gr. Mother, and Police.]

1. The mother city; the chief city of a kingdom, state, or country.
[Edinburgh] gray metropolis of the North. Tennyson.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: The seat, or see, of the metropolitan, or highest church
dignitary.
The great metropolis and see of Rome. Shak.

METROPOLITAN
Met`ro*pol"i*tan, a. Etym: [L. metropolitanus: cf. F. métropolitain.]

1. Of or pertaining to the capital or principal city of a country;
as, metropolitan luxury.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a metropolitan or the
presiding bishop of a country or province, his office, or his
dignity; as, metropolitan authority. "Bishops metropolitan." Sir T.
More.

METROPOLITAN
Met`ro*pol"i*tan, n. Etym: [LL. metropolitanus.]

1. The superior or presiding bishop of a country or province.

2. (Lat. Church.)

Defn: An archbishop.

3. (Gr. Church)

Defn: A bishop whose see is civil metropolis. His rank is
intermediate between that of an archbishop and a patriarch. Hook.

METROPOLITANATE
Met`ro*pol"i*tan*ate, n.

Defn: The see of a metropolitan bishop. Milman.

METROPOLITE
Me*trop"o*lite, n. Etym: [L. metropolita, Gr.

Defn: A metropolitan. Barrow.

METROPOLITICAL
Met`ro*po*lit"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a metropolis; being a metropolis;
metropolitan; as, the metropolitical chair. Bp. Hall.

METRORRHAGIA
Met`ror*rha"gi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Profuse bleeding from the womb, esp. such as does not occur at
the menstrual period.

METROSCOPE
Met"ro*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: A modification of the stethoscope, for directly auscultating
the uterus from the vagina.

METROSIDEROS
Met`ro*si*de"ros, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A myrtaceous genus of trees or shrubs, found in Australia and
the South Sea Islands, and having very hard wood. Metrosideros vera
is the true ironwood.

METROTOME
Met"ro*tome, n. Etym: [See Metrotomy.] (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for cutting or scarifying the uterus or the neck
of the uterus.

METROTOMY
Me*trot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. métrotomie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of cutting into the uterus; hysterotomy; the
Cæsarean section.

-METRY
-me*try. Etym: [See -meter.]

Defn: A suffix denoting the art, process, or science, of measuring;
as, acidmetry, chlorometry, chronometry.

METTE
Mette, obs. imp.

Defn: of Mete, to dream. Chaucer.

METTLE
Met"tle, n. Etym: [E. metal, used in a tropical sense in allusion to
the temper of the metal of a sword blade. See Metal.]

Defn: Substance or quality of temperament; spirit, esp. as regards
honor, courage, fortitude, ardor, etc.; disposition; -- usually in a
good sense.
A certain critical hour which shall... try what mettle his heart is
made of. South.
Gentlemen of brave mettle. Shak.
The winged courser, like a generous horse, Shows most true mettle
when you check his course. Pope.
To put one one's mettle, to cause or incite one to use one's best
efforts.

METTLED
Met"tled, a.

Defn: Having mettle; high-spirited; ardent; full of fire. Addison.

METTLESOME
Met"tle*some, a.

Defn: Full of spirit; possessing constitutional ardor; fiery; as, a
mettlesome horse.
 -- Met"tle*some*ly, adv.
 -- Met"tle*some*ness, n.

MEUM
Me"um, n. [L., neut. of meus mine.]

Defn: Lit., mine; that which is mine; -- used in the phrase meum et
tuum, or meum and tuum; as, to confound meum and tuum, to fail to
distinguish one's own property from that of others; to be dishonest.

Ancestors . . . generally esteemed more renowned for ancient family
and high courage than for accurately regarding the trifling
distinction of meum and tuum.
Sir W. Scott.

MEUTE
Meute, n.

Defn: A cage for hawks; a mew. See 4th Mew, 1. Milman.

MEVE
Meve, v. t. & i.

Defn: To move. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MEW
Mew, n. Etym: [AS. m, akin to D. meeuw, G. möwe, OHG. m, Icel. mar.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A gull, esp. the common British species (Larus canus); called
also sea mew, maa, mar, mow, and cobb.

MEW
Mew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mewed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mewing.] Etym: [OE.
muen, F. muer, fr. L. mutare to change, fr. movere to move. See Move,
and cf. Mew a cage, Molt.]

Defn: To shed or cast; to change; to molt; as, the hawk mewed his
feathers.
Nine times the moon had mewed her horns. Dryden.

MEW
Mew, v. i.

Defn: To cast the feathers; to molt; hence, to change; to put on a
new appearance.
Now everything doth mew, And shifts his rustic winter robe.
Turbervile.

MEW
Mew, n. Etym: [OE. mue, F. mue change of feathers, scales, skin, the
time or place when the change occurs, fr. muer to molt, mew, L.
mutare to change. See 2d Mew.]

1. A cage for hawks while mewing; a coop for fattening fowls; hence,
any inclosure; a place of confinement or shelter; -- in the latter
sense usually in the plural.
Full many a fat partrich had he in mewe. Chaucer.
Forthcoming from her darksome mew. Spenser.
Violets in their secret mews. Wordsworth.

2. A stable or range of stables for horses; -- compound used in the
plural, and so called from the royal stables in London, built on the
site of the king's mews for hawks.

MEW
Mew, v. t. Etym: [From Mew a cage.]

Defn: To shut up; to inclose; to confine, as in a cage or other
inclosure.
More pity that the eagle should be mewed. Shak.
Close mewed in their sedans, for fear of air. Dryden.

MEW
Mew, v. i. Etym: [Of imitative origin; cf. G. miauen.]

Defn: To cry as a cat. [Written also meaw, meow.] Shak.

MEW
Mew, n.

Defn: The common cry of a cat. Shak.

MEWL
Mewl, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mewled; p. pr. & vb. n. Mewling.] Etym:
[Cf. F. miauler to mew, E. mew to cry as a cat. Cf. Miaul.]

Defn: To cry, as a young child; to squall. [Written also meawl.]
Shak.

MEWLER
Mewl"er, n.

Defn: One that mewls.

MEWS
Mews, n. sing. & pl. Etym: [Prop. pl. of mew. See Mew a cage.]

Defn: An alley where there are stables; a narrow passage; a confined
place. [Eng.]
Mr. Turveydrop's great room... was built out into a mews at the back.
Dickens.

MEXAL; MEXICAL
Mex*al", Mex"i*cal, n. Etym: [Sp. mexcal.]

Defn: See Mescal.

MEXICAN
Mex"i*can, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Mexico or its people.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Mexico. Mexican poppy (Bot.), a
tropical American herb of the Poppy family (Argemone Mexicana) with
much the look of a thistle, but having large yellow or white
blossoms.
 -- Mexican tea (Bot.), an aromatic kind of pigweed from tropical
America (Chenopodium ambrosioides).

MEXICANIZE
Mex"i*can*ize, v. t.

Defn: To cause to be like the Mexicans, or their country, esp. in
respect of frequent revolutions of government.

MEXICANIZE
Mex"i*can*ize, v. i.

Defn: To become like the Mexicans, or their country or government.

MEYNE
Meyn"e, n. [Obs.]

Defn: Same as Meine.

MEZCAL
Mez*cal", n.

Defn: Same as Mescal.

MEZEREON
Me*ze"re*on, n. Etym: [F. mézéréon, Per. mazriyun.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small European shrub (Daphne Mezereum), whose acrid bark is
used in medicine.

MEZQUITA
Mez*qui"ta, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A mosque.

MEZUZOTH
Mez"u*zoth, n. Etym: [Heb. mêzuzoth, pl. of mêzuzah doorpost.]

Defn: A piece of parchment bearing the Decalogue and attached to the
doorpost; -- in use among orthodox Hebrews.

MEZZA MAJOLICA
Mez"za ma*jol"i*ca. [It. See Mezzo; Majolica.] (Ceramics)

Defn: Italian pottery of the epoch and general character of majolica,
but less brilliantly decorated, esp. such pottery without tin enamel,
but painted and glazed.

MEZZANINE
Mez"za*nine, n. Etym: [F. mezzanine, It. mezzanino, fr. mezzano
middle, fr. mezzo middle, half. See Mezzo.] (Arch.)
(a) Same as Entresol.
(b) A partial story which is not on the same level with the story of
the main part of the edifice, as of a back building, where the floors
are on a level with landings of the staircase of the main house.

MEZZA VOCE
Mez"za vo"ce. Etym: [It., fr. mezzo, fem. mezza middle, half + voce
voice, L. vox.] (Mus.)

Defn: With a medium fullness of sound.

MEZZO
Mez"zo, a. Etym: [It., from L. medius middle, half. See Mid, a.]
(Mus.)

Defn: Mean; not extreme.

MEZZO-RELIEVO
Mez"zo-re*lie"vo, n.

Defn: Mezzo-rilievo.

MEZZO-RILIEVO
Mez"zo-ri*lie"vo, n. Etym: [It.]
(a) A middle degree of relief in figures, between high and low
relief.
(b) Sculpture in this kind of relief. See under Alto-rilievo.

MEZZO-SOPRANO
Mez"zo-so*pra"no, a. (Mus.)

Defn: Having a medium compass between the soprano and contralto; --
said of the voice of a female singer.
 -- n.
(a) A mezzo-soprano voice.
(b) A person having such a voice.

MEZZOTINT
Mez"zo*tint, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mezzo-tinto.]

Defn: A manner of engraving on copper or steel by drawing upon a
surface previously roughened, and then removing the roughness in
places by scraping, burnishing, etc., so as to produce the requisite
light and shade. Also, an engraving so produced.

MEZZOTINT
Mez"zo*tint, v. t.

Defn: To engrave in mezzotint.

MEZZOTINTER
Mez"zo*tint`er, n.

Defn: One who engraves in mezzotint.

MEZZOTINTO
Mez`zo*tin"to, n. Etym: [It. mezzo half + tinto tinted, p. p. of
tingere to dye, color, tinge, L. tingere. See Mezzo.]

Defn: Mezzotint.

MEZZOTINTO
Mez`zo*tin"to, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mezzotintoed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mezzotintoing.]

Defn: To engrave in mezzotint; to represent by mezzotint.

MHO
Mho, n. [Anagram of ohm.] (Elec.)

Defn: A unit of conductivity, being the reciprocal of the ohm.

MHOMETER
Mhom"e*ter, n.  [Mho  + -meter.] (Elec.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring conductivity.

MHORR
Mhorr, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mohr.

MI
Mi, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A syllable applied to the third tone of the scale of C, i. e.,
to E, in European solmization, but to the third tone of any scale in
the American system.

MIAMIS
Mi*a"mis, n. pl.; sing. Miami (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians that formerly occupied the country between
the Wabash and Maumee rivers.

MIARGYRITE
Mi*ar"gy*rite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of an iron-black color, and very sectile, consisting
principally of sulphur, antimony, and silver.

MIAS
Mi"as, n. Etym: [Malayan.]

Defn: The orang-outang.

MIASCITE
Mi*asc"ite, n. Etym: [Named from Miask, in the Ural Mountains.]
(Min.)

Defn: A granitoid rock containing feldspar, biotite, elæolite, and
sodalite.

MIASM
Mi"asm, n. Etym: [Cf. F. miasme.]

Defn: Miasma.

MIASMA
Mi*as"ma, n.; pl. Miasmata. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: Infectious particles or germs floating in the air; air made
noxious by the presence of such particles or germs; noxious effluvia;
malaria.

MIASMAL
Mi*as"mal, a.

Defn: Containing miasma; miasmatic.

MIASMATIC; MIASMATICAL
Mi`as*mat"ic, Mi`as*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. miasmatique.]

Defn: Containing, or relating to, miasma; caused by miasma; as,
miasmatic diseases.

MIASMATIST
Mi*as"ma*tist, n.

Defn: One who has made a special study of miasma.

MIASMOLOGY
Mi`as*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Miasma + -logy.]

Defn: That department of medical science which treats of miasma.

MIAUL
Mi*aul", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Miauled; p. pr. & vb. n. Miauling.]
Etym: [Cf. F. miauler, of imitative origin, and E. mew. Cf. Mewl.]

Defn: To cry as a cat; to mew; to caterwaul. Sir W. Scott.

MIAUL
Mi*aul", n.

Defn: The crying of a cat.

MICA
Mi"ca, n. Etym: [L. mica crumb, grain, particle; cf. F. mica.] (Min.)

Defn: The name of a group of minerals characterized by highly perfect
cleavage, so that they readily separate into very thin leaves, more
or less elastic. They differ widely in composition, and vary in color
from pale brown or yellow to green or black. The transparent forms
are used in lanterns, the doors of stoves, etc., being popularly
called isinglass. Formerly called also cat-silver, and glimmer.

Note: The important species of the mica group are: muscovite, common
or potash mica, pale brown or green, often silvery, including
damourite (also called hydromica); biotite, iron-magnesia mica, dark
brown, green, or black; lepidomelane, iron, mica, black; phlogopite,
magnesia mica, colorless, yellow, brown; lepidolite, lithia mica,
rose-red, lilac. Mica (usually muscovite, also biotite) is an
essential constituent of granite, gneiss, and mica slate; biotite is
common in many eruptive rocks; phlogopite in crystalline limestone
and serpentine. Mica diorite (Min.), an eruptive rock allied to
diorite but containing mica (biotite) instead of hornblende.
 -- Mica powder, a kind of dynamite containing fine scales of mica.
 -- Mica schist, Mica slate (Geol.), a schistose rock, consisting of
mica and quartz with, usually, some feldspar.

MICACEO-CALCAREOUS
Mi*ca`ce*o-cal*ca"re*ous, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Partaking of the nature of, or consisting of, mica and lime; --
applied to a mica schist containing carbonate of lime.

MICACEOUS
Mi*ca"ceous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. micacé.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, mica; splitting into laminæ or
leaves like mica.

MICE
Mice, n.,

Defn: pl of Mouse.

MICELLA
Mi*cel"la, n.; pl. Micellæ. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. mica a morsel,
grain.] (Biol.)

Defn: A theoretical aggregation of molecules constituting a
structural particle of protoplasm, capable of increase or diminution
without change in chemical nature.

MICH; MICHE
Mich, Miche, v. i. Etym: [OE. michen; cf. OE. muchier, mucier, to
conceal, F. musser, and OHG. muhhen to waylay. Cf. Micher,
Curmudgeon, Muset.]

Defn: To lie hid; to skulk; to act, or carry one's self, sneakingly.
[Obs. or Colloq.] [Written also meach and meech.] Spenser.

MICHAELMAS
Mich"ael*mas, n. Etym: [Michael + mass religious service; OE.
Mighelmesse.]

Defn: The feat of the archangel Michael, a church festival,
celebrated on the 29th of September. Hence, colloquially, autumn.
Michaelmas daisy. (Bot.) See under Daisy.

MICHER
Mich"er, n. Etym: [OE. michare, muchare. See Mich.]

Defn: One who skulks, or keeps out of sight; hence, a truant; an
idler; a thief, etc. [Obs.] Shak.

MICHERY
Mich"er*y, n.

Defn: Theft; cheating. [Obs.] Gower.

MICHING
Mich"ing, a.

Defn: Hiding; skulking; cowardly. [Colloq.] [Written also meaching
and meeching.]

MICKLE
Mic"kle, a. Etym: [OE. mikel, muchel, mochel, mukel, AS. micel,
mycel; akin to OS. mikil, OHG. mihil, mihhil, Icel. mikill, mykill,
Goth. mikils, L. magnus, Gr. mahat. sq. root103. Cf. Much, Muckle,
Magnitude.]

Defn: Much; great. [Written also muckle and mockle.] [Old Eng. &
Scot.] "A man of mickle might." Spenser.

MICMACS
Mic"macs, n. pl.; sing. Micmac (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians inhabiting Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.
[Written also Mikmaks.]

MICO
Mi"co, n. Etym: [Sp. or Pg. mico.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small South American monkey (Mico melanurus), allied to the
marmoset. The name was originally applied to an albino variety.

MICRACOUSTIC
Mi`cra*cous"tic, a.

Defn: Same as Microustic.

MICRASTER
Mi*cras"ter, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of sea urchins, similar to Spatangus, abounding in the
chalk formation; -- from the starlike disposal of the ambulacral
furrows.

MICRENCEPHALOUS
Mi`cren*ceph"a*lous, Etym: [Micr- + Gr.

Defn: Having a small brain.

MICRO-; MICR-
Mi"cro-, Mi"cr-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form signifying:
(a) Small, little, trivial, slight; as, microcosm, microscope.
(b) (Metric System, Elec., Mech., etc.) A millionth part of; as,
microfarad, microohm, micrometer.

MICROAMPERE
Mi`cro*am`père", n. Etym: [Micr- + ampère.] (Elec.)

Defn: One of the smaller measures of electrical currents; the
millionth part of one ampère.

MICROANALYSIS
Mi`cro*a*nal"y*sis, n.  [Micro-+ analysis.]

Defn: Analysis of the structure of materials from careful observation
of photomicrographs.

MICROBACTERIA
Mi`cro*bac*te"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Micro-, and Bacterium.]
(Biol.)

Defn: In the classification of Cohn, one of the four tribes of
Bacteria.

Note: In this classification bacteria are divided into four tribes:
1. Spherobacteria, or spherical bacteria, as the genus Micrococcus.
2. Microbacteria, or bacteria in the form of short rods, including
the genus Bacterium. 3. Desmobacteria, or bacteria in straight
filaments, of which the genus Bacillus is a type. 4. Spirobacteria,
or bacteria in spiral filaments, as the genus Vibrio.

MICROBAROGRAPH
Mi`cro*bar"o*graph, n.  [Micro-+ barograph.]

Defn: An instrument for recording minor fluctuations of atmospheric
pressure, as opposed to general barometric surges.

MICROBE; MICROBION
Mi"crobe, Mi*cro"bi*on, n. Etym: [NL. microbion, fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A microscopic organism; -- particularly applied to bacteria and
especially to pathogenic forms; as, the microbe of fowl cholera.

MICROBIAN
Mi*cro"bi*an, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or caused by, microbes; as, the microbian
theory; a microbian disease.

MICROBIC
Mi*crob"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a microbe.

MICROBICIDE
Mi*crob"i*cide, n. Etym: [Microbe + L. caedere to kill.] (Biol.)

Defn: Any agent detrimental to, or destructive of, the life of
microbes or bacterial organisms.

MICROBIOLOGY
Mi`cro*bi*ol"o*gy, n. [See Microbe; -logy.]

Defn: The study of minute organisms, or microbes, as the bacteria. --
Mi`cro*bi`o*log"ic*al (#), a. -- Mi`cro*bi*ol"o*gist (#), n.

MICROCEPHALIC; MICROCEPHALOUS
Mi`cro*ce*phal"ic, Mi`cro*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Micro- + cephalic,
cephalous.] (Anat.)

Defn: Having a small head; having the cranial cavity small; --
opposed to Ant: megacephalic.

MICRO-CHEMICAL
Mi`cro-chem"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to micro-chemistry; as, a micro-chemical test.

MICRO-CHEMISTRY
Mi`cro-chem"is*try, n. Etym: [Micro- + chemistry.]

Defn: The application of chemical tests to minute objects or portions
of matter, magnified by the use of the microscopy; -- distinguished
from macro-chemistry.

MICROCHRONOMETER
Mi`cro*chro*nom"e*ter, n.

Defn: A chronoscope.

MICROCLINE
Mi"cro*cline, n. Etym: [Micro- + Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of the feldspar group, like orthoclase or common
feldspar in composition, but triclinic in form.

MICROCOCCAL
Mi`cro*coc"cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to micrococci; caused by micrococci. Nature.

MICROCOCCUS
Mi`cro*coc"cus, n.; pl. Micrococci. Etym: [NL. See Micro-, and
Coccus.] (Biol.)

Defn: A genus of Spherobacteria, in the form of very small globular
or oval cells, forming, by transverse division, filaments, or chains
of cells, or in some cases single organisms shaped like dumb-bells
(Diplococcus), all without the power of motion. See Illust. of
Ascoccus.

Note: Physiologically, micrococci are divided into three groups;
chromogenic, characterized by their power of forming pigment;
zymogenic, including those associated with definite chemical
processes; and pathogenic, those connected with disease.

MICROCOSM
Mi"cro*cosm, n. Etym: [F. microcosme, L. microcosmus, fr. Gr.

Defn: A little world; a miniature universe. Hence (so called by
Paracelsus), a man, as a supposed epitome of the exterior universe or
great world. Opposed to macrocosm. Shak.

MICROCOSMIC; MICROCOSMICAL
Mi`cro*cos"mic, Mi`cro*cos"mic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. microcosmique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the microcosm. Microcosmic salt (Chem.), a
white crystalline substance obtained by mixing solutions of sodium
phosphate and ammonium phosphate, and also called hydric-sodic-
ammonic-phosphate. It is a powerful flux, and is used as a substitute
for borax as a blowpipe reagent in testing for the metallic oxides.
Originally obtained by the alchemists from human urine, and called
sal microcosmicum.

MICROCOSMOGRAPHY
Mi`cro*cos*mog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Microcosm + -graphy.]

Defn: Description of man as a microcosm.

MICROCOULOMB
Mi`cro*cou`lomb", n. Etym: [Micro- + coulomb.] (Elec.)

Defn: A measure of electrical quantity; the millionth part of one
coulomb.

MICROCOUSTIC
Mi`cro*cous"tic, a. Etym: [Micro- + acoustic: cf. F. microcoustique,
micracoustique.]

Defn: Pertaining, or suited, to the audition of small sounds; fitted
to assist hearing.

MICROCOUSTIC
Mi`cro*cous"tic, n.

Defn: An instrument for making faint sounds audible, as to a
partially deaf person.

MICROCRITH
Mi`cro*crith", n. Etym: [Micro- + crith.] (Chem.)

Defn: The weight of the half hydrogen molecule, or of the hydrogen
atom, taken as the standard in comparing the atomic weights of the
elements; thus, an atom of oxygen weighs sixteen microcriths. See
Crith. J. P. Cooke.

MICROCRYSTALLINE
Mi`cro*crys"tal*line, a. Etym: [Micro- + crystalline.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: Crystalline on a fine, or microscopic, scale; consisting of
fine crystals; as, the ground mass of certain porphyrics is
microcrystalline.

MICROCYTE
Mi"cro*cyte, n. Etym: [Micro- + Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: One of the elementary granules found in blood. They are much
smaller than an ordinary corpuscle, and are particularly noticeable
in disease, as in anæmia.

MICRODONT
Mic"ro*dont, a. Etym: [Micr- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having small teeth.

MICROFARAD
Mi`cro*far"ad, n. Etym: [Micro- + farad.] (Elec.)

Defn: The millionth part of a farad.

MICROFORM
Mi"cro*form, n. Etym: [Micro- + form, n.] (Biol.)

Defn: A microscopic form of life; an animal or vegetable organism
microscopic size.

MICRO-GEOLOGICAL
Mi`cro-ge`o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to micro-geology.

MICRO-GEOLOGY
Mi`cro-ge*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Micro- + geology.]

Defn: The part of geology relating to structure and organisms which
require to be studied with a microscope.

MICROGRAPH
Mi"cro*graph, n. Etym: [See Micrography.]

Defn: An instrument for executing minute writing or engraving.

MICROGRAPHIC
Mi`cro*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to micrography.

MICROGRAPHY
Mi*crog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Micro- + -graphy: cf. F. micrographie.]

Defn: The description of microscopic objects.

MICROHM
Mi*crohm", n. Etym: [Micr- + ohm.] (Elec.)

Defn: The millionth part of an ohm.

MICROLEPIDOPTERA
Mi`cro*lep`i*dop"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Micro-, and
Lepidoptera.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tribe of Lepidoptera, including a vast number of minute
species, as the plume moth, clothes moth, etc.

MICROLESTES
Mi`cro*les"tes, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of small Triassic mammals, the oldest yet
found in European strata.

MICROLITE
Mi"cro*lite, n. Etym: [Micro- + -lite.] (Min.)

1. A rare mineral of resinous luster and high specific gravity. It is
a tantalate of calcium, and occurs in octahedral crystals usually
very minute.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A minute inclosed crystal, often observed when minerals or
rocks are examined in thin sections under the microscope.

MICROLITH
Mi"cro*lith, n. Etym: [Micro- + lith.] (Min.)

Defn: Same as Microlite, 2.

MICROLITHIC
Mi`cro*lith"ic, a.

Defn: Formed of small stones.

MICROLOGIC; MICROLOGICAL
Mi`cro*log"ic, Mi`cro*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to micrology; very minute; as, micrologic
examination.
 -- Mi`cro*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

MICROLOGY
Mi*crol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Micro- + -logy.]

1. That part of science which treats of microscopic objects, or
depends on microscopic observation.

2. Attention to petty items or differences. W. Taylor.

MICROMERE
Mi"cro*mere, n. Etym: [Micro- + -mere.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of the smaller cells, or blastomeres, resulting from the
complete segmentation of a telolecithal ovum.

MICROMETER
Mi*crom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Micro- + -meter: cf. F. micromètre.]

Defn: An instrument, used with a telescope or microscope, for
measuring minute distances, or the apparent diameters of objects
which subtend minute angles. The measurement given directly is that
of the image of the object formed at the focus of the object glass.
Circular, or Ring, micrometer, a metallic ring fixed in the focus of
the object glass of a telescope, and used to determine differences of
right ascension and declination between stars by observations of the
times at which the stars cross the inner or outer periphery of the
ring.
 -- Double image micrometer, a micrometer in which two images of an
object are formed in the field, usually by the two halves of a
bisected lens which are movable along their line of section by a
screw, and distances are determined by the number of screw
revolutions necessary to bring the points to be measured into optical
coincidence. When the two images are formed by a bisected objects
glass, it is called a divided-object-glass micrometer, and when the
instrument is large and equatorially mounted, it is known as a
heliometer.
 -- Double refraction micrometer, a species of double image
micrometer, in which the two images are formed by the double
refraction of rock crystal.
 -- Filar, or Bifilar, micrometer. See under Bifilar.
 -- Micrometer caliper or gauge (Mech.), a caliper or gauge with a
micrometer screw, for measuring dimensions with great accuracy.
 -- Micrometer head, the head of a micrometer screw.
 -- Micrometer microscope, a compound microscope combined with a
filar micrometer, used chiefly for reading and subdividing the
divisions of large astronomical and geodetical instruments.
 -- Micrometer screw, a screw with a graduated head used in some
forms of micrometers.
 -- Position micrometer. See under Position.
 -- Scale, or Linear, micrometer, a minute and very delicately
graduated scale of equal parts used in the field of a telescope or
microscope, for measuring distances by direct comparison.

MICROMETRIC; MICROMETRICAL
Mi`cro*met"ric, Mi`cro*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. micrométrique.]

Defn: Belonging to micrometry; made by the micrometer.
 -- Mi`cro*met"ric*al*ly, adv.

MICROMETRY
Mi*crom"e*try, n.

Defn: The art of measuring with a micrometer.

MICROMILLIMETER
Mi`cro*mil"li*me`ter, n. Etym: [Micro- + millimeter.]

Defn: The millionth part of a meter.

MICRON
Mic"ron, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Physics)

Defn: A measure of length; the thousandth part of one millimeter; the
millionth part of a meter.

MICRONESIAN
Mi"cro*ne"sian, a. Etym: [From Micronesia, fr. Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Micronesia, a collective designation of the
islands in the western part of the Pacific Ocean, embracing the
Marshall and Gilbert groups, the Ladrones, the Carolines, etc.

MICRONESIANS
Mi`cro*ne"sians, n. pl.; sing. Micronesian. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A dark race inhabiting the Micronesian Islands. They are
supposed to be a mixed race, derived from Polynesians and Papuans.

MICRONOMETER
Mi`cro*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Micro- + chronometer.]

Defn: An instrument for noting minute portions of time.

MICROORGANISM; MICRO-ORGANISM
Mi`cro*ör"gan*ism, n. Etym: [Micro- + organism.] (Biol.)

Defn: Any microscopic form of life; -- particularly applied to
bacteria and similar organisms, esp. such are supposed to cause
infectious diseases.

MICROPANTOGRAPH
Mi`cro*pan"to*graph, n. Etym: [Micro- + pantograph.]

Defn: A kind of pantograph which produces copies microscopically
minute.

MICROPARASITE
Mi`cro*par"a*site, n.

Defn: A parasitic microörganism. -- Mi`cro*par`a*sit"ic (#), a.

MICROPEGMATITE
Mi`cro*peg"ma*tite, n. Etym: [Micro- + pegmatite.] (Min.)

Defn: A rock showing under the microscope the structure of a graphic
granite (pegmatite).
 -- Mi`cro*peg`ma*tit"ic, a.

MICROPHONE
Mi"cro*phone, n. Etym: [Micro- + Gr. microphone.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for intensifying and making audible very feeble
sounds. It produces its effects by the changes of intensity in an
electric current, occasioned by the variations in the contact
resistance of conducting bodies, especially of imperfect conductors,
under the action of acoustic vibrations.

MICROPHONIC
Mi`cro*phon"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pert. to a microphone; serving to intensify weak sounds.

MICROPHONICS
Mi`cro*phon"ics, n. Etym: [See Microphone.]

Defn: The science which treats of the means of increasing the
intensity of low or weak sounds, or of the microphone.

MICROPHONOUS
Mi*croph"o*nous, a.

Defn: Serving to augment the intensity of weak sounds; microcoustic.

MICROPHOTOGRAPH
Mi`cro*pho"to*graph, n. Etym: [Micro- + photograph.]

1. A microscopically small photograph of a picture, writing, printed
page, etc.

2. An enlarged representation of a microscopic object, produced by
throwing upon a sensitive plate the magnified image of an object
formed by a microscope or other suitable combination of lenses.

Note: A picture of this kind is preferably called a photomicrograph.

MICROPHOTOGRAPHY
Mi`cro*pho*tog"ra*phy, n.

Defn: The art of making microphotographs.

MICROPHTHALMIA; MICROPHTHALMY
Mi`croph*thal"mi*a, Mi`croph*thal"my, n. Etym: [Micro- + Gr.

Defn: An unnatural smallness of the eyes, occurring as the result of
disease or of imperfect development.

MICROPHYLLOUS
Mi*croph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Micro- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Small-leaved.

MICROPHYTAL
Mi*croph"y*tal, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, microphytes.

MICROPHYTE
Mi"cro*phyte, n. Etym: [Micro- + Gr. microphyte.] (Bot.)

Defn: A very minute plant, one of certain unicellular algæ, such as
the germs of various infectious diseases are believed to be.

MICROPYLE
Mi"cro*pyle, n. Etym: [Micro- + Gr. micropyle.] (Biol.)
(a) An opening in the membranes surrounding the ovum, by which
nutrition is assisted and the entrance of the spermatozoa permitted.
(b) An opening in the outer coat of a seed, through which the
fecundating pollen enters the ovule.
 -- Mi*crop"y*lar, a.

MICROSCOPAL
Mi*cros"co*pal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to microscopy, or to the use of the microscope.
Huxley.

MICROSCOPE
Mi"cro*scope, n. Etym: [Micro- + -scope.]

Defn: An optical instrument, consisting of a lens, or combination of
lenses, for making an enlarged image of an object which is too minute
to be viewed by the naked eye. Compound microscope, an instrument
consisting of a combination of lenses such that the image formed by
the lens or set of lenses nearest the object (called the objective)
is magnified by another lens called the ocular or eyepiece.
 -- Oxyhydrogen microscope, and Solar microscope. See under
Oxyhydrogen, and Solar.
 -- Simple, or Single, microscope, a single convex lens used to
magnify objects placed in its focus.

MICROSCOPIAL
Mi`cro*sco"pi*al, a.

Defn: Microscopic. [R.] Berkeley.

MICROSCOPIC; MICROSCOPICAL
Mi`cro*scop"ic, Mi`cro*scop"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. microscopique.]

1. Of or pertaining to the microscope or to microscopy; made with a
microscope; as, microscopic observation.

2. Able to see extremely minute objects.
Why has not man a microscopic eye Pope.

3. Very small; visible only by the aid of a microscope; as, a
microscopic insect.

MICROSCOPICALLY
Mi`cro*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By the microscope; with minute inspection; in a microscopic
manner.

MICROSCOPIST
Mi*cros"co*pist, n.

Defn: One skilled in, or given to, microscopy.

MICROSCOPY
Mi*cros"co*py, n.

Defn: The use of the microscope; investigation with the microscope.

MICROSEISM
Mi"cro*seism, n.  [Micro- + Gr.  an earthquake, fr.  to shake.]

Defn: A feeble earth tremor not directly perceptible, but detected
only by means of specially constructed apparatus. -- Mi`cro*seis"mic
(#), *seis"mic*al (#), a.

MICROSEISMOGRAPH
Mi`cro*seis"mo*graph, n. [Microseiem + -graph.]

Defn: A microseismometer; specif., a microseismometer producing a
graphic record.

MICROSEISMOLOGY
Mi`cro*seis*mol"o*gy, n. [Microseiem + -logy.]

Defn: Science or study of microseisms.

MICROSEISMOMETER
Mi`cro*seis*mom"e*ter, n. [Microseism + -meter.]

Defn: A seismometer for measuring amplitudes or periods, or both, of
microseisms. --Mi`cro*seis*mom"e*try (#), n.

MICROSEME
Mi"cro*seme, a. Etym: [Micro- + Gr. microsème.] (Anat.)

Defn: Having the orbital index relatively small; having the orbits
broad transversely; -- opposed to Ant: megaseme.

MICROSPECTROSCOPE
Mi`cro*spec"tro*scope, n. Etym: [Micro- + spectroscope.] (Physics)

Defn: A spectroscope arranged for attachment to a microscope, for
observation of the spectrum of light from minute portions of any
substance.

MICROSPORANGIUM
Mi`cro*spo*ran"gi*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Micro-, and Sporangium.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A sporangium or conceptacle containing only very minute spores.
Cf. Macrosporangium.

MICROSPORE
Mi"cro*spore, n. Etym: [Micro- + spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the exceedingly minute spores found in certain
flowerless plants, as Selaginella and Isoetes, which bear two kinds
of spores, one very much smaller than the other. Cf. Macrospore.

MICROSPORIC
Mi`cro*spor"ic, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to microspores.

MICROSTHENE
Mi"cro*sthene, n. Etym: [Micro- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of mammals having a small size as a typical
characteristic. It includes the lower orders, as the Insectivora,
Cheiroptera, Rodentia, and Edentata.

MICROSTHENIC
Mi`cro*sthen"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a typically small size; of or pertaining to the
microsthenes.

MICROTASIMETER
Mi`cro*ta*sim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Micro- + ta.] (Physics)

Defn: A tasimeter, especially when arranged for measuring very small
extensions. See Tasimeter.

MICROTOME
Mi"cro*tome, n. Etym: [Micro- + Gr.

Defn: An instrument for making very thin sections for microscopical
examination.

MICROTOMIC; MICROTOMICAL
Mi`cro*tom"ic, Mi`cro*tom"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pert. to the microtome or microtomy; cutting thin slices.

MICROTOMIST
Mi*crot"o*mist, n.

Defn: One who is skilled in or practices microtomy.

MICROTOMY
Mi*crot"o*my, n.

Defn: The art of using the microtome; investigation carried on with
the microtome.

MICROVOLT
Mi`cro*volt", n. Etym: [Micro- + volt.] (Elec.)

Defn: A measure of electro-motive force; the millionth part of one
volt.

MICROWEBER
Mi`cro*we"ber, n. Etym: [Micro- + weber.] (Elec.)

Defn: The millionth part of one weber.

MICROZOA
Mi`cro*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Infusoria.

MICROZOOSPORE; MICROZOOESPORE
Mi`cro*zo"ö*spore, n. Etym: [Micro- + zoöspore.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small motile spore furnished with two vibratile cilia, found
in certain green algæ.

MICROZYME
Mi"cro*zyme, n. Etym: [Micro- + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A microörganism which is supposed to act like a ferment in
causing or propagating certain infectious or contagious diseases; a
pathogenic bacterial organism.

MICTURITION
Mic`tu*ri"tion, n. Etym: [L. micturire to desire to make water, v.
desid. fr. mingere, mictum, to make water.]

Defn: The act of voiding urine; also, a morbidly frequent passing of
the urine, in consequence of disease.

MID
Mid, a. [Compar. wanting; superl. Midmost.] Etym: [AS. midd; akin to
OS. middi, D. mid (in comp.), OHG. mitti, Icel. mi, Goth. midjis, L.
medius, Gr. madhya. Amid, Middle, Midst, Mean, Mediate, Meridian,
Mizzen, Moiety.]

1. Denoting the middle part; as, in mid ocean.
No more the mounting larks, while Daphne sings, Shall list'ning in
mid air suspend their wings. Pope.

2. Occupying a middle position; middle; as, the mid finger; the mid
hour of night.

3. (Phon.)

Defn: Made with a somewhat elevated position of some certain part of
the tongue, in relation to the palate; midway between the high and
the low; -- said of certain vowel sounds; as, a (ale), ê (êll), o
(old). See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 10, 11.

Note: Mid is much used as a prefix, or combining form, denoting the
middle or middle part of a thing; as, mid-air, mid-channel, mid-age,
midday, midland, etc. Also, specifically, in geometry, to denote a
circle inscribed in a triangle (a midcircle), or relation to such a
circle; as, mid-center, midradius.

MID
Mid, n.

Defn: Middle. [Obs.]
About the mid of night come to my tent. Shak.

MID
Mid, prep.

Defn: See Amid.

MIDA
Mi"da, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larva of the bean fly.

MIDAS
Mi"das, n. Etym: [So called from L. Midas, a man fabled to have had
ass's ears.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of longeared South American monkeys, including numerous
species of marmosets. See Marmoset.

MIDAS'S EAR
Mi"das's ear". Etym: [See Midas.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A pulmonate mollusk (Auricula, or Ellobium, aurismidæ); -- so
called from resemblance to a human ear.

MIDBRAIN
Mid"brain`, n. Etym: [Mid, a. + brain.] (Anat.)

Defn: The middle segment of the brain; the mesencephalon. See Brain.

MIDDAY
Mid"day`, n. Etym: [AS. middæg. See Mid, a., and Day.]

Defn: The middle part of the day; noon.

MIDDAY
Mid"day`, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to noon; meridional; as, the midday sun.

MIDDEN
Mid"den, n. [Also midding.] Etym: [Cf. Dan. mögdynge, E. muck, and
dung.]

1. A dunghill. [Prov. Eng.]

2. An accumulation of refuse about a dwelling place; especially, an
accumulation of shells or of cinders, bones, and other refuse on the
supposed site of the dwelling places of prehistoric tribes, -- as on
the shores of the Baltic Sea and in many other places. See Kitchen
middens.

MIDDEN CROW
Mid"den crow". (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common European crow. [Prov. Eng.]

MIDDEST
Mid"dest, a.; superl. of Mid. Etym: [See Midst.]

Defn: Situated most nearly in the middle; middlemost; midmost. [Obs.]
" 'Mongst the middest crowd." Spenser.

MIDDEST
Mid"dest, n.

Defn: Midst; middle. [Obs.] Fuller.

MIDDING
Mid"ding, n.

Defn: Same as Midden.

MIDDLE
Mid"dle, a. Etym: [OE. middel, AS. middel; akin to D. middel, OHG.
muttil, G. mittel. Mid, a.]

1. Equally distant from the extreme either of a number of things or
of one thing; mean; medial; as, the middle house in a row; a middle
rank or station in life; flowers of middle summer; men of middle age.

2. Intermediate; intervening.
Will, seeking good, finds many middle ends. Sir J. Davies.

Note: Middle is sometimes used in the formation of selfexplaining
compounds; as, middle-sized, middle-witted. Middle Ages, the period
of time intervening between the decline of the Roman Empire and the
revival of letters. Hallam regards it as beginning with the sixth and
ending with the fifteenth century.
 -- Middle class, in England, people who have an intermediate
position between the aristocracy and the artisan class. It includes
professional men, bankers, merchants, and small landed proprietors
The middle-class electorate of Great Britain. M. Arnold.
-- Middle distance. (Paint.) See Middle-ground.
 -- Middle English. See English, n., 2.
 -- Middle Kingdom, China.
 -- Middle oil (Chem.), that part of the distillate obtained from
coal tar which passes over between 170º and 230º Centigrade; --
distinguished from the light, and the heavy or dead, oil.
 -- Middle passage, in the slave trade, that part of the Atlantic
Ocean between Africa and the West Indies.
 -- Middle post. (Arch.) Same as King-post.
 -- Middle States, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware;
which, at the time of the formation of the Union, occupied a middle
position between the Eastern States (or New England) and the Southern
States. [U.S.] -- Middle term (Logic), that term of a syllogism with
which the two extremes are separately compared, and by means of which
they are brought together in the conclusion. Brande.
 -- Middle tint (Paint.), a subdued or neutral tint. Fairholt.
 -- Middle voice. (Gram.) See under Voice.
 -- Middle watch, the period from midnight to four A. M.; also, the
men on watch during that time. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
 -- Middle weight, a pugilist, boxer, or wrestler classed as of
medium weight, i. e., over 140 and not over 160 lbs., in distinction
from those classed as light weights, heavy weights, etc.

MIDDLE
Mid"dle, n. Etym: [AS. middel. See Middle, a.]

Defn: The point or part equally distant from the extremities or
exterior limits, as of a line, a surface, or a solid; an intervening
point or part in space, time, or order of series; the midst; central
portion; specif., the waist. Chaucer. "The middle of the land." Judg.
ix. 37.
In this, as in most questions of state, there is a middle. Burke.

Syn.
 -- See Midst.

MIDDLE-AGE
Mid"dle-age`, Etym: [Middle + age. Cf. Mediæval.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Middle Ages; mediæval.

MIDDLE-AGED
Mid"dle-aged`, a.

Defn: Being about the middle of the ordinary age of man; between 30
and 50 years old.

MIDDLE-EARTH
Mid"dle-earth`, n.

Defn: The world, considered as lying between heaven and hell. [Obs.]
Shak.

MIDDLE-GROUND
Mid"dle-ground`, n. (Paint.)

Defn: That part of a picture between the foreground and the
background.

MIDDLEMAN
Mid"dle*man, n.; pl. Middlemen (.

1. An agent between two parties; a broker; a go-between; any dealer
between the producer and the consumer; in Ireland, one who takes land
of the proprietors in large tracts, and then rents it out in small
portions to the peasantry.

2. A person of intermediate rank; a commoner.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: The man who occupies a central position in a file of soldiers.

MIDDLEMOST
Mid"dle*most`, a. Etym: [Cf. Midmost.]

Defn: Being in the middle, or nearest the middle; midmost.

MIDDLER
Mid"dler, n.

Defn: One of a middle or intermediate class in some schools and
seminaries.

MIDDLING
Mid"dling, a.

Defn: Of middle rank, state, size, or quality; about equally distant
from the extremes; medium; moderate; mediocre; ordinary. "A town of
but middling size." Hallam.
Plainly furnished, as beseemed the middling circumstances of its
inhabitants. Hawthorne.
-- Mid"dling*ly, adv.
 -- Mid"dling*ness, n.

MIDDLINGS
Mid"dlings, n. pl.

1. A combination of the coarser parts of ground wheat the finest
bran, separated from the fine flour and coarse bran in bolting; --
formerly regarded as valuable only for feed; but now, after
separation of the bran, used for making the best quality of flour.
Middlings contain a large proportion of gluten.

2. In the southern and western parts of the United States, the
portion of the hog between the ham and the shoulder; bacon; -- called
also middles. Bartlett.

MIDDY
Mid"dy, n.; pl. Middies (.

Defn: A colloquial abbreviation of midshipman.

MIDFEATHER
Mid"feath`er, n.

1. (Steam Boilers)

Defn: A vertical water space in a fire box or combustion chamber.

2. (Mining)

Defn: A support for the center of a tunnel.

MIDGARD
Mid"gard`, n. Etym: [Icel. miedhgaredhr.] (Scand. Myth.)

Defn: The middle space or region between heaven and hell; the abode
of human beings; the earth.

MIDGARD; MIDGARTH; MITHGARTHR
Mid"gard (mid"gärd), n. Also Mid"garth (-gärth), Mith"garthr (Icel.
meth"gärthr'). [Icel. miðgarðr.] (Teut. Myth.)

Defn: The middle space or region between heaven and hell, the abode
of human beings; the earth.

MIDGE
Midge, n. Etym: [OE. migge, AS. mycge; akin to OS. muggia, D. mug, G.
mücke, OHG. mucca, Icel. m, Sw. mygga, mygg, Dan. myg; perh. named
from its buzzing; cf. Gr. (Zoöl.)

1. Any one of many small, delicate, long-legged flies of the
Chironomus, and allied genera, which do not bite. Their larvæ are
usually aquatic.

2. A very small fly, abundant in many parts of the United States and
Canada, noted for the irritating quality of its bite.

Note: The name is also applied to various other small flies. See
Wheat midge, under Wheat.

MIDGET
Midg"et, n. Etym: [Dim. of midge.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A minute bloodsucking fly. [Local, U. S.]

2. A very diminutive person.

MIDGUT
Mid"gut`, n. Etym: [Mid, a. + gut.] (Anat.)

Defn: The middle part of the alimentary canal from the stomach, or
entrance of the bile duct, to, or including, the large intestine.

MIDHEAVEN
Mid"heav`en, n.

1. The midst or middle of heaven or the sky.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The meridian, or middle line of the heavens; the point of the
ecliptic on the meridian.

MIDLAND
Mid"land, a.

1. Being in the interior country; distant from the coast or seashore;
as, midland towns or inhabitants. Howell.

2. Surrounded by the land; mediterranean.
And on the midland sea the French had awed. Dryden.

MIDLAND
Mid"land, n.

Defn: The interior or central region of a country; -- usually in the
plural. Drayton.

MIDMAIN
Mid"main`, n.

Defn: The middle part of the main or sea. [Poetic] Chapman.

MIDMOST
Mid"most`, a. Etym: [OE. middemiste. Cf. Foremost.]

Defn: Middle; middlemost.
Ere night's midmost, stillest hour was past. Byron.

MIDNIGHT
Mid"night`, n. Etym: [AS. midniht.]

Defn: The middle of the night; twelve o'clock at night.
The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve. Shak.

MIDNIGHT
Mid"night`, a.

Defn: Being in, or characteristic of, the middle of the night; as,
midnight studies; midnight gloom. "Midnight shout and revelry."
Milton.

MIDNIGHT SUN
Mid"night` sun.

Defn: The sun shining at midnight in the arctic or antarctic summer.

MIDRASH
Mid*rash", n.; pl. Midrashim, Midrashoth. Etym: [Heb., explanation.]

Defn: A talmudic exposition of the Hebrew law, or of some part of it.

MIDRIB
Mid"rib`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A continuation of the petiole, extending from the base to the
apex of the lamina of a leaf.

MIDRIFF
Mid"riff, n. Etym: [AS. midhrif; midd mid, middle + hrif bowels,
womb; akin to OFries. midref midriff, rif, ref, belly, OHG. href
body, and to L. corpus body. See Corpse.] (Anat.)

Defn: See Diaphragm, n., 2.
Smote him into the midriff with a stone. Milton.

MID SEA; MID-SEA
Mid" sea", or; Mid"-sea".

Defn: The middle part of the sea or ocean. Milton. The Mid-sea, the
Mediterranean Sea. [Obs.]

MIDSHIP
Mid"ship`, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or being in, the middle of a ship. Midship
beam (Naut.), the beam or timber upon which the broadest part of a
vessel is formed.
 -- Midship bend, the broadest frame in a vessel. Weale.

MIDSHIPMAN
Mid"ship`man, n.; pl. Midshipmen (.

1.
(a) Formerly, a kind of naval cadet, in a ship of war, whose business
was to carry orders, messages, reports, etc., between the officers of
the quarter-deck and those of the forecastle, and render other
services as required.
(b) In the English naval service, the second rank attained by a
combatant officer after a term of service as naval cadet. Having
served three and a half years in this rank, and passed an
examination, he is eligible to promotion to the rank of lieutenant.
(c) In the United States navy, the lowest grade of officers in line
of promotion, being graduates of the Naval Academy awaiting promotion
to the rank of ensign.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American marine fish of the genus Porichthys, allied to the
toadfish. Cadet midshipman, formerly a title distinguishing a cadet
line officer from a cadet engineer at the U. S. Naval Academy. See
under Cadet.
 -- Cadet midshipman, formerly, a naval cadet who had served his
time, passed his examinations, and was awaiting promotion; -- now
called, in the United States, midshipman; in England, sublieutenant.

MIDSHIPS
Mid"ships`, adv. Etym: [For amidships.] (Naut.)

Defn: In the middle of a ship; -- properly amidships.

MIDSHIPS
Mid"ships`, n. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: The timbers at the broadest part of the vessel. R. H. Dana, Jr.

MIDST
Midst, n. Etym: [From middest, in the middest, for older in middes,
where -s is adverbial (orig. forming a genitive), or still older a
midde, a midden, on midden. See Mid, and cf. Amidst.]

1. The interior or central part or place; the middle; -- used chiefly
in the objective case after in; as, in the midst of the forest.
And when the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him.
Luke iv. 35.
There is nothing... in the midst [of the play] which might not have
been placed in the beginning. Dryden.

2. Hence, figuratively, the condition of being surrounded or beset;
the press; the burden; as, in the midst of official duties; in the
midst of secular affairs.

Note: The expressions in our midst, in their midst, etc., are avoided
by some good writers, the forms in the midst of us, in the midst of
them, etc., being preferred.

Syn.
 -- Midst, Middle. Midst in present usage commonly denotes a part or
place surrounded on enveloped by or among other parts or objects (see
Amidst); while middle is used of the center of length, or surface, or
of a solid, etc. We say in the midst of a thicket; in the middle of a
line, or the middle of a room; in the midst of darkness; in the
middle of the night.

MIDST
Midst, prep.

Defn: In the midst of; amidst. Shak.

MIDST
Midst, adv.

Defn: In the middle. [R.] Milton.

MIDSUMMER
Mid"sum`mer, n. Etym: [AS. midsumor.]

Defn: The middle of summer. Shak. Midsummer daisy (Bot.), the oxeye
daisy.

MIDWARD
Mid"ward, a.

Defn: Situated in the middle.

MIDWARD
Mid"ward, adv.

Defn: In or toward the midst.

MIDWAY
Mid"way`, n.

Defn: The middle of the way or distance; a middle way or course.
Shak.
Paths indirect, or in the midway faint. Milton.

MIDWAY
Mid"way`, a.

Defn: Being in the middle of the way or distance; as, the midway air.
Shak.

MIDWAY
Mid"way`, adv.

Defn: In the middle of the way or distance; half way. "She met his
glance midway." Dryden.

MIDWEEK
Mid"week`, n.

Defn: The middle of the week. Also used adjectively.

MIDWIFE
Mid"wife`, n.; pl. Midwives. Etym: [OE. midwif, fr. AS. mid with
(akin to Gr. Meta-, and Wife.]

Defn: A woman who assists other women in childbirth; a female
practitioner of the obstetric art.

MIDWIFE
Mid"wife`, v. t.

Defn: To assist in childbirth.

MIDWIFE
Mid"wife`, v. i.

Defn: To perform the office of midwife.

MIDWIFERY
Mid"wife`ry, n.

1. The art or practice of assisting women in childbirth; obstetrics.

2. Assistance at childbirth; help or coöperation in production.

MIDWINTER
Mid"win`ter, n. Etym: [AS. midwinter.]

Defn: The middle of winter. Dryden.

MIDWIVE
Mid"wive`, v. t.

Defn: To midwife. [Obs.]

MIEN
Mien, n. Etym: [F. mine; perh. from sane source as mener to lead; cf.
E. demean, menace, mine, n.]

Defn: Aspect; air; manner; demeanor; carriage; bearing.
Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As, to be hated, needs but to
be seen. Pope.

MIFF
Miff, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. G. muff sullenness, sulkiness, muffen to be
silky, muffïg sullen, pouting.]

Defn: A petty falling out; a tiff; a quarrel; offense. Fielding.

MIFF
Miff, v. t.

Defn: To offend slightly. [Colloq.]

MIGHT
Might,

Defn: imp. of May. Etym: [AS. meahte, mihte.]

MIGHT
Might, n. Etym: [AS. meaht, miht, from the root of magan to be able,
E. may; akin to D. magt, OS. maht, G. macht, Icel. mattr, Goth.
mahts. May, v.]

Defn: Force or power of any kind, whether of body or mind; energy or
intensity of purpose, feeling, or action; means or resources to
effect an object; strength; force; power; ability; capacity.
What so strong, But wanting rest, will also want of might Spenser.
Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all
thy soul, and with all thy might. Deut. vi. 5.
With might and main. See under 2d Main.

MIGHTFUL
Might"ful, a.

Defn: Mighty. [Obs.] Shak.

MIGHTILY
Might"i*ly, adv. Etym: [From Mighty.]

1. In a mighty manner; with might; with great earnestness;
vigorously; powerfully.
Whereunto I also labor, striving according to his working, which
worketh in me mightily. Col. i. 29.

2. To a great degree; very much.
Practical jokes amused us mightily. Hawthorne.

MIGHTINESS
Might"i*ness, n.

1. The quality of being mighty; possession of might; power;
greatness; high dignity.
How soon this mightiness meets misery. Shak.

2. Highness; excellency; -- with a possessive pronoun, a title of
dignity; as, their high mightinesses.

MIGHTLESS
Might"less, a.

Defn: Without; weak. [Obs.]

MIGHTY
Might"y, a. [Compar. Mightier; superl. Mightiest.] Etym: [AS.
meahtig, mihtig; akin to G. mächtig, Goth. mahteigs. See Might, n.]

1. Possessing might; having great power or authority.
Wise in heart, and mighty in strength. Job ix. 4.

2. Accomplished by might; hence, extraordinary; wonderful. "His
mighty works." Matt. xi. 20.

3. Denoting and extraordinary degree or quality in respect of size,
character, importance, consequences, etc. "A mighty famine." Luke xv.
14. "Giants of mighty bone." Milton.
Mighty was their fuss about little matters. Hawthorne.

MIGHTY
Might"y, n.; pl. Mighties.

Defn: A warrior of great force and courage. [R. & Obs.] 1 Chron. xi.
12.

MIGHTY
Might"y, adv.

Defn: In a great degree; very. [Colloq.] "He was mighty methodical."
Jeffrey.
We have a mighty pleasant garden. Doddridge.

MIGNIARD
Mign"iard, a. Etym: [F. mignard, akin to mignon. See Minion.]

Defn: Soft; dainty. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

MIGNIARDISE
Mign"iard*ise, n. Etym: [F. mignardise.]

Defn: Delicate fondling. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

MIGNON
Mi"gnon, a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See 3d Minion.

MIGNON
Mi"gnon, v. t.

Defn: To flatter. [R. & Obs.] Danie

MIGNONETTE
Mi`gnon*ette", n. Etym: [F. mignonnette, dim. of mignon darling. See
2d Minion.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Reseda odorata) having greenish flowers with orange-
colored stamens, and exhaling a delicious fragrance. In Africa it is
a low shrub, but further north it is usually an annual herb.
Mignonette pepper, coarse pepper.

MIGRAINE
Mi*graine", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Same as Megrim.
 -- Mi*grain"ous, a.

MIGRANT
Mi"grant, a. Etym: [L. migrans, p. pr. of migrare. See Migrate.]

Defn: Migratory. Sir T. Browne.
 -- n.

Defn: A migratory bird or other animal.

MIGRATE
Mi"grate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Migrated; p. pr. & vb. n. Migrating.]
Etym: [L. migratus, p. p. of migrare to migrate, transfer.]

1. To remove from one country or region to another, with a view to
residence; to change one's place of residence; to remove; as, the
Moors who migrated from Africa into Spain; to migrate to the West.

2. To pass periodically from one region or climate to another for
feeding or breeding; -- said of certain birds, fishes, and
quadrupeds.

MIGRATION
Mi*gra"tion, n. Etym: [L. migratio: cf. F. migration.]

Defn: The act of migrating.

MIGRATORY
Mi"gra*to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. migratoire.]

1. Removing regularly or occasionally from one region or climate to
another; as, migratory birds.

2. Hence, roving; wandering; nomad; as, migratory habits; a migratory
life. Migratory locust (Zoöl.) See Locust.
 -- Migratory thrush (Zoöl.), the American robin. See Robin.

MIKADO
Mi*ka"do, n. Etym: [Jap.]

Defn: The popular designation of the hereditary sovereign of Japan.

MIKMAKS
Mik"maks, n.

Defn: Same as Micmacs.

MILADY
Mi*la"dy, n. [F., fr. English.]

Defn: Lit., my lady; hence (as used on the Continent), an English
noblewoman or gentlewoman.

MILAGE
Mil"age (; 48), n.

Defn: Same as Mileage.

MILANESE
Mil`an*ese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Milan in Italy, or to its inhabitants.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Milan; people of Milan.

MILCH
Milch, a. Etym: [OE. milche; akin to G. melk, Icel. milkr, mj, and to
E. milk. See Milk.]

1. Giving milk; -- now applied only to beasts. "Milch camels." Gen.
xxxii. "Milch kine." Shak.

2. Tender; pitiful; weeping. [Obs.] Shak.

MILD
Mild, a. [Compar. Milder; superl. Mildest.] Etym: [AS. milde; akin to
OS. mildi, D. & G. mild, OHG. milti, Icel. mildr, Sw. & Dan. mild,
Goth. milds; cf. Lith. melas dear, Gr.

Defn: Gentle; pleasant; kind; soft; bland; clement; hence, moderate
in degree or quality; -- the opposite of harsh, severe, irritating,
violent, disagreeable, etc.; -- applied to persons and things; as, a
mild disposition; a mild eye; a mild air; a mild medicine; a mild
insanity.
The rosy morn resigns her light And milder glory to the noon. Waller.
Adore him as a mild and merciful Being. Rogers.
Mild, or Low, steel, steel that has but little carbon in it and is
not readily hardened.

Syn.
 -- Soft; gentle; bland; calm; tranquil; soothing; pleasant; placid;
meek; kind; tender; indulgent; clement; mollifying; lenitive;
assuasive. See Gentle.

MILDEN
Mild"en, v. t.

Defn: To make mild, or milder. Lowell.

MILDEW
Mil"dew, n. Etym: [AS. meledeáw; akin to OHG. militou, G. mehlthau,
mehltau; prob. orig. meaning, honeydew; cf. Goth. milip honey. See
Mellifluous, and Dew.] (Bot.)

Defn: A growth of minute powdery or webby fungi, whitish or of
different colors, found on various diseased or decaying substances.

MILDEW
Mil"dew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mildewed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mildewing.]

Defn: To taint with mildew.
He... mildews the white wheat. Shak.

MILDEW
Mil"dew, v. i.

Defn: To become tainted with mildew.

MILDLY
Mild"ly, adv.

Defn: In a mild manner.

MILDNESS
Mild"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being mild; as, mildness of temper; the
mildness of the winter.

MILE
Mile, n. Etym: [AS. mil, fr. L. millia, milia; pl. of mille a
thousand, i. e., milia passuum a thousand paces. Cf. Mill the tenth
of a cent, Million.]

Defn: A certain measure of distance, being equivalent in England and
the United States to 320 poles or rods, or 5,280 feet.

Note: The distance called a mile varies greatly in different
countries. Its length in yards is, in Norway, 12,182; in Brunswick,
11,816; in Sweden, 11,660; in Hungary, 9,139; in Switzerland, 8,548;
in Austria, 8,297; in Prussia, 8,238; in Poland, 8,100; in Italy,
2,025; in England and the United States, 1,760; in Spain, 1,552; in
the Netherlands, 1,094. Geographical, or Nautical mile, one sixtieth
of a degree of a great circle of the earth, or 6080.27 feet.
 -- Mile run. Same as Train mile. See under Train.
 -- Roman mile, a thousand paces, equal to 1,614 yards English
measure.
 -- Statute mile, a mile conforming to statute, that is, in England
and the United States, a mile of 5,280 feet, as distinguished from
any other mile.

MILEAGE
Mile"age (; 48), n.

1. An allowance for traveling expenses at a certain rate per mile.

2. Aggregate length or distance in miles; esp., the sum of lengths of
tracks or wires of a railroad company, telegraph company, etc.
[Written also milage.] Constructive mileage, a mileage allowed for
journeys supposed to be made, but not actually made. Bartlett.

MILEPOST
Mile"post`, n.

Defn: A post, or one of a series of posts, set up to indicate spaces
of a mile each or the distance in miles from a given place.

MILESIAN
Mi*le"sian, a. Etym: [L. Milesius, Gr.

1. (Anc. Geog.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Miletus, a city of Asia Minor, or to its
inhabitants.

2. (Irish Legendary Hist.)

Defn: Descended from King Milesius of Spain, whose two sons are said
to have conquered Ireland about 1300 b. c.; or pertaining to the
descendants of King Milesius; hence, Irish.

MILESIAN
Mi*le"sian, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Miletus.

2. A native or inhabitant of Ireland.

MILESTONE
Mile"stone`, n.

Defn: A stone serving the same purpose as a milepost.

MILFOIL
Mil"foil, n. Etym: [F. mille-feuille, L. millefolium; mille thousand
+ folium leaf. See Foil a leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: A common composite herb (Achillea Millefolium) with white
flowers and finely dissected leaves; yarrow. Water milfoil (Bot.), an
aquatic herb with dissected leaves (Myriophyllum).

MILIARIA
Mil`i*a"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Miliary.] (Med.)

Defn: A fever accompanied by an eruption of small, isolated, red
pimples, resembling a millet seed in form or size; miliary fever.

MILIARY
Mil"ia*ry, a. Etym: [L. miliarius, fr. milium millet: cf. F.
miliaire.]

1. Like millet seeds; as, a miliary eruption.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Accompanied with an eruption like millet seeds; as, a miliary
fever.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Small and numerous; as, the miliary tubercles of Echini.

MILIARY
Mil"ia*ry, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the small tubercles of Echini.

MILICE
Mi`lice", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Militia. [Obs.]

MILIEU
Mi`lieu", n. [F., fr. mi middle (L. medius) + lieu place. See Demi-,
Lieu.]

Defn: Environment.

The intellectual and moral milieu created by multitudes of self-
centered, cultivated personalities.
J. A. Symonds.

It is one of the great outstanding facts of his progressive relation
to the elements of his social milieu.
J. M. Baldwin.

MILIOLA
Mil"i*o`la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. milium millet. So named from
its resemblance to millet seed.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Foraminifera, having a porcelanous shell with
several longitudinal chambers.

MILIOLITE
Mil"i*o*lite, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil shell of, or similar to, the genus Miliola.

MILIOLITE
Mil"i*o*lite, a.

Defn: The same Milliolitic. Miliolite limestone (Geol.), a building
stone, one of the group of the Paris basin, almost entirely made up
of many-chambered microscopic shells.

MILIOLITIC
Mil`i*o*lit"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the genus Miliola; containing miliolites.

MILITANCY
Mil"i*tan*cy, n. Etym: [See Militant.]

1. The state of being militant; warfare.

2. A military spirit or system; militarism. H. Spencer.

MILITANT
Mil"i*tant, a. Etym: [L. militans, -antis, p. pr. of militare to be
soldier: cf. F. militant. See Militate.]

Defn: Engaged in warfare; fighting; combating; serving as a soldier.
 -- Mil"i*tant*ly, adv.
At which command the powers militant... Moved on in silence. Milton.
Church militant, the Christian church on earth, which is supposed to
be engaged in a constant warfare against its enemies, and is thus
distinguished from the church triumphant, in heaven.

MILITAR
Mil"i*tar, a.

Defn: Military. [Obs.] Bacon.

MILITARILY
Mil"i*ta*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a military manner.

MILITARISM
Mil"i*ta*rism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. militarisme.]

1. A military state or condition; reliance on military force in
administering government; a military system.

2. The spirit and traditions of military life. H. Spencer.

MILITARIST
Mil"i*ta*rist, n.

Defn: A military man. [Obs.] Shak.

MILITARY
Mil"i*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. militaris, militarius, from miles, militis,
soldier: cf. F. militaire.]

1. Of or pertaining to soldiers, to arms, or to war; belonging to,
engaged in, or appropriate to, the affairs of war; as, a military
parade; military discipline; military bravery; military conduct;
military renown.
Nor do I, as an enemy to peace, Troop in the throngs of military men.
Shak.

2. Performed or made by soldiers; as, a military election; a military
expedition. Bacon. Military law. See Martial law, under Martial.
 -- Military order. (a) A command proceeding from a military
superior. (b) An association of military persons under a bond of
certain peculiar rules; especially, such an association of knights in
the Middle Ages, or a body in modern times taking a similar form,
membership of which confers some distinction.
 -- Military tenure, tenure of land, on condition of performing
military service.

MILITARY
Mil"i*ta*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. militaire.]

Defn: The whole body of soldiers; soldiery; militia; troops; the
army.

MILITATE
Mil"i*tate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Militated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Militating.] Etym: [L. militare, militatum, to be a soldier, fr.
miles, militis, soldier.]

Defn: To make war; to fight; to contend; -- usually followed by
against and with.
These are great questions, where great names militate against each
other. Burke.
The invisible powers of heaven seemed to militate on the side of the
pious emperor. Gibbon.

MILITIA
Mi*li"tia, n. Etym: [L., military service, soldiery, fr. miles,
militis, soldier: cf. F. milice.]

1. In the widest sense, the whole military force of a nation,
including both those engaged in military service as a business, and
those competent and available for such service; specifically, the
body of citizens enrolled for military instruction and discipline,
but not subject to be called into actual service except in
emergencies.
The king's captains and soldiers fight his battles, and yet... the
power of the militia is he. Jer. Taylor.

2. Military service; warfare. [Obs.] Baxter.

MILITIAMAN
Mi*li"tia*man, n.; pl. Militiamen (.

Defn: One who belongs to the militia.

MILITIATE
Mi*li"ti*ate, v. i.

Defn: To carry on, or prepare for, war. [Obs.] Walpole.

MILK
Milk, n. Etym: [AS. meoluc, meoloc, meolc, milc; akin to OFries.
meloc, D. melk, G. milch, OHG. miluh, Icel. mj, Sw. mjölk, Dan. melk,
Goth. miluks, G. melken to milk, OHG. melchan, Lith. milszti, L.
mulgere, Gr. Milch, Emulsion, Milt soft roe of fishes.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: A white fluid secreted by the mammary glands of female mammals
for the nourishment of their young, consisting of minute globules of
fat suspended in a solution of casein, albumin, milk sugar, and
inorganic salts. "White as morne milk." Chaucer.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of juice or sap, usually white in color, found in
certain plants; latex. See Latex.

3. An emulsion made by bruising seeds; as, the milk of almonds,
produced by pounding almonds with sugar and water.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ripe, undischarged spat of an oyster. Condensed milk. See
under Condense, v. t.
 -- Milk crust (Med.), vesicular eczema occurring on the face and
scalp of nursing infants. See Eczema.
 -- Milk fever. (a) (Med.) A fever which accompanies or precedes the
first lactation. It is usually transitory. (b) (Vet. Surg.) A form
puerperal peritonitis in cattle; also, a variety of meningitis
occurring in cows after calving.
 -- Milk glass, glass having a milky appearance.
 -- Milk knot (Med.), a hard lump forming in the breast of a nursing
woman, due to obstruction to the flow of milk and congestion of the
mammary glands.
 -- Milk leg (Med.), a swollen condition of the leg, usually in
puerperal women, caused by an inflammation of veins, and
characterized by a white appearance occasioned by an accumulation of
serum and sometimes of pus in the cellular tissue.
 -- Milk meats, food made from milk, as butter and cheese. [Obs.]
Bailey.
 -- Milk mirror. Same as Escutcheon, 2.
 -- Milk molar (Anat.), one of the deciduous molar teeth which are
shed and replaced by the premolars.
 -- Milk of lime (Chem.), a watery emulsion of calcium hydrate,
produced by macerating quicklime in water.
 -- Milk parsley (Bot.), an umbelliferous plant (Peucedanum palustre)
of Europe and Asia, having a milky juice.
 -- Milk pea (Bot.), a genus (Galactia) of leguminous and, usually,
twining plants.
 -- Milk sickness (Med.), a peculiar malignant disease, occurring in
some parts of the Western United States, and affecting certain kinds
of farm stock (esp. cows), and persons who make use of the meat or
dairy products of infected cattle. Its chief symptoms in man are
uncontrollable vomiting, obstinate constipation, pain, and muscular
tremors. Its origin in cattle has been variously ascribed to the
presence of certain plants in their food, and to polluted drinking
water.
 -- Milk snake (Zoöl.), a harmless American snake (Ophibolus
triangulus, or O. eximius). It is variously marked with white, gray,
and red. Called also milk adder, chicken snake, house snake, etc.
 -- Milk sugar. (Physiol. Chem.) See Lactose, and Sugar of milk
(below).
 -- Milk thistle (Bot.), an esculent European thistle (Silybum
marianum), having the veins of its leaves of a milky whiteness.
 -- Milk thrush. (Med.) See Thrush.
 -- Milk tooth (Anat.), one of the temporary first set of teeth in
young mammals; in man there are twenty.
 -- Milk tree (Bot.), a tree yielding a milky juice, as the cow tree
of South America (Brosimum Galactodendron), and the Euphorbia
balsamifera of the Canaries, the milk of both of which is wholesome
food.
 -- Milk vessel (Bot.), a special cell in the inner bark of a plant,
or a series of cells, in which the milky juice is contained. See
Latex.
 -- Rock milk. See Agaric mineral, under Agaric.
 -- Sugar of milk. The sugar characteristic of milk; a hard white
crystalline slightly sweet substance obtained by evaporation of the
whey of milk. It is used in pellets and powder as a vehicle for
homeopathic medicines, and as an article of diet. See Lactose.

MILK
Milk, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Milked; p. pr. & vb. n. Milking.]

1. To draw or press milk from the breasts or udder of, by the hand or
mouth; to withdraw the milk of. "Milking the kine." Gay.
I have given suck, and know How tender 't is to love the babe that
milks me. Shak.

2. To draw from the breasts or udder; to extract, as milk; as, to
milk wholesome milk from healthy cows.

3. To draw anything from, as if by milking; to compel to yield profit
or advantage; to plunder. Tyndale.
They [the lawyers] milk an unfortunate estate as regularly as a
dairyman does his stock. London Spectator.
To milk the street, to squeeze the smaller operators in stocks and
extract a profit from them, by alternately raising and depressing
prices within a short range; -- said of the large dealers. [Cant] --
To milk a telegram, to use for one's own advantage the contents of a
telegram belonging to another person. [Cant]

MILK
Milk, v. i.

Defn: To draw or to yield milk.

MILKEN
Milk"en, a.

Defn: Consisting of milk. [Obs.]

MILKER
Milk"er, n.

1. One who milks; also, a mechanical apparatus for milking cows.

2. A cow or other animal that gives milk.

MILKFUL
Milk"ful, a.

Defn: Full of milk; abounding with food. [R.] "Milkful vales."
Sylvester.

MILKILY
Milk"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a milky manner.

MILKINESS
Milk"i*ness, n.

Defn: State or quality of being milky.

MILK-LIVERED
Milk"-liv`ered, a.

Defn: White-livered; cowardly; timorous.

MILKMAID
Milk"maid`, n.

Defn: A woman who milks cows or is employed in the dairy.

MILKMAN
Milk"man, n.; pl. Milkmen (.

Defn: A man who sells milk or delivers is to customers.

MILK SICKNESS
Milk sickness. (Veter.)

Defn: A peculiar malignant disease, occurring in parts of the western
United States, and affecting certain kinds of farm stock (esp. cows),
and persons using the meat or dairy products of infected cattle. Its
chief symptoms in man are uncontrollable vomiting, obstinate
constipation, pain, and muscular tremors. Its origin in cattle has
been variously ascribed to the presence of certain plants in their
food, and to polluted water.

MILKSOP
Milk"sop`, n.

Defn: A piece of bread sopped in milk; figuratively, an effeminate or
weak-minded person. Shak.
To wed a milksop or a coward ape. Chaucer.

MILK VETCH
Milk" vetch`. (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous herb (Astragalus glycyphyllos) of Europe and Asia,
supposed to increase the secretion of milk in goats.

Note: The name is sometimes taken for the whole genus Astragalus, of
which there are about two hundred species in North America, and even
more elsewhere.

MILKWEED
Milk"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genera Asclepias and Acerates, abounding in a
milky juice, and having its seed attached to a long silky down;
silkweed. The name is also applied to several other plants with a
milky juice, as to several kinds of spurge.

MILKWORT
Milk"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants (Polygala) of many species. The common
European P. vulgaris was supposed to have the power of producing a
flow of milk in nurses.

Note: The species of Campanula, or bellflower, are sometimes called
milkwort, from their juice.

MILKY
Milk"y, a.

1. Consisting of, or containing, milk.
Pails high foaming with a milky flood. Pope.

2. Like, or somewhat like, milk; whitish and turbid; as, the water is
milky. "Milky juice." Arbuthnot.

3. Yielding milk. "Milky mothers." Roscommon.

4. Mild; tame; spiritless.
Has friendship such a faint and milky heart Shak.
Milky Way. (Astron.) See Galaxy, 1.

MILL
Mill, n. Etym: [L. mille a thousand. Cf. Mile.]

Defn: A money of account of the United States, having the value of
the tenth of a cent, or the thousandth of a dollar.

MILL
Mill, n. Etym: [OE. mille, melle, mulle, milne, AS. myln, mylen; akin
to D. molen, G. mühle, OHG. muli, mulin, Icel. mylna; all prob. from
L. molina, fr. mola millstone; prop., that which grinds, akin to
molere to grind, Goth. malan, G. mahlen, and to E. meal. Meal flour,
and cf. Moline.]

1. A machine for grinding or commuting any substance, as grain, by
rubbing and crushing it between two hard, rough, or intented
surfaces; as, a gristmill, a coffee mill; a bone mill.

2. A machine used for expelling the juice, sap, etc., from vegetable
tissues by pressure, or by pressure in combination with a grinding,
or cutting process; as, a cider mill; a cane mill.

3. A machine for grinding and polishing; as, a lapidary mill.

4. A common name for various machines which produce a manufactured
product, or change the form of a raw material by the continuous
repetition of some simple action; as, a sawmill; a stamping mill,
etc.

5. A building or collection of buildings with machinery by which the
processes of manufacturing are carried on; as, a cotton mill; a
powder mill; a rolling mill.

6. (Die Sinking)

Defn: A hardened steel roller having a design in relief, used for
imprinting a reversed copy of the design in a softer metal, as
copper.

7. (Mining)
(a) An excavation in rock, transverse to the workings, from which
material for filling is obtained.
(b) A passage underground through which ore is shot.

8. A milling cutter. See Illust. under Milling.

9. A pugilistic. [Cant] R. D. Blackmore. Edge mill, Flint mill, etc.
See under Edge, Flint, etc.
 -- Mill bar (Iron Works), a rough bar rolled or drawn directly from
a bloom or puddle bar for conversion into merchant iron in the mill.
 -- Mill cinder, slag from a puddling furnace.
 -- Mill head, the head of water employed to turn the wheel of a
mill.
 -- Mill pick, a pick for dressing millstones.
 -- Mill pond, a pond that supplies the water for a mill.
 -- Mill race, the canal in which water is conveyed to a mill wheel,
or the current of water which drives the wheel.
 -- Mill tail, the water which flows from a mill wheel after turning
it, or the channel in which the water flows.
 -- Mill tooth, a grinder or molar tooth.
 -- Mill wheel, the water wheel that drives the machinery of a mill.
 -- Roller mill, a mill in which flour or meal is made by crushing
grain between rollers.
 -- Stamp mill (Mining), a mill in which ore is crushed by stamps.
 -- To go through the mill, to experience the suffering or discipline
necessary to bring one to a certain degree of knowledge or skill, or
to a certain mental state.

MILL
Mill, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Milled; p. pr. & vb. n. Milling.] Etym:
[See Mill, n., and cf. Muller.]

1. To reduce to fine particles, or to small pieces, in a mill; to
grind; to comminute.

2. To shape, finish, or transform by passing through a machine;
specifically, to shape or dress, as metal, by means of a rotary
cutter.

3. To make a raised border around the edges of, or to cut fine
grooves or indentations across the edges of, as of a coin, or a screw
head; also, to stamp in a coining press; to coin.

4. To pass through a fulling mill; to full, as cloth.

5. To beat with the fists. [Cant] Thackeray.

6. To roll into bars, as steel. To mill chocolate, to make it frothy,
as by churning.

MILL
Mill, v. i. (Zoöl.)

Defn: To swim under water; -- said of air-breathing creatures.

MILLBOARD
Mill"board`, n.

Defn: A kind of stout pasteboard.

MILL-CAKE
Mill"-cake`, n.

Defn: The incorporated materials for gunpowder, in the form of a
dense mass or cake, ready to be subjected to the process of
granulation.

MILLDAM
Mill"dam`, n.

Defn: A dam or mound to obstruct a water course, and raise the water
to a height sufficient to turn a mill wheel.

MILLED
Milled, a.

Defn: Having been subjected to some process of milling. Milled cloth,
cloth that has been beaten in a fulling mill.
 -- Milled lead, lead rolled into sheets.

MILLEFIORE GLASS
Mil`le*fi*o"re glass`. Etym: [It. mille thousand + flore flower.]

Defn: Slender rods or tubes of colored glass fused together and
embedded in clear glass; -- used for paperweights and other small
articles.

MILLENARIAN
Mil`le*na"ri*an, a. Etym: [See Millenary.]

Defn: Consisting of a thousand years; of or pertaining to the
millennium, or to the Millenarians.

MILLENARIAN
Mil`le*na"ri*an, n.

Defn: One who believes that Christ will personally reign on earth a
thousand years; a Chiliast.

MILLENARIANISM; MILLENARISM
Mil`le*na"ri*an*ism, Mil"le*na*rism, n.

Defn: The doctrine of Millenarians.

MILLENARY
Mil"le*na*ry, a. Etym: [L. millenarius, fr. milleni a thousand each,
fr. mille a thousand: cf. F. millénaire. See Mile.]

Defn: Consisting of a thousand; millennial.

MILLENARY
Mil"le*na*ry, n.

Defn: The space of a thousand years; a millennium; also, a
Millenarian."During that millenary." Hare.

MILLENNIAL
Mil*len"ni*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the millennium, or to a thousand years; as,
a millennial period; millennial happiness.

MILLENNIALISM; MILLENNIARISM
Mil*len"ni*al*ism, Mil*len"ni*a*rism, n.

Defn: Belief in, or expectation of, the millennium; millenarianism.

MILLENNIALIST
Mil*len"ni*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who believes that Christ will reign personally on earth a
thousand years; a Chiliast; also, a believer in the universal
prevalence of Christianity for a long period.

MILLENNIST
Mil"len*nist, n.

Defn: One who believes in the millennium. [Obs.] Johnson.

MILLENNIUM
Mil*len"ni*um, n. Etym: [LL., fr. L. mille a thousand + annus a year.
See Mile, and Annual.]

Defn: A thousand years; especially, thousand years mentioned in the
twentieth chapter in the twentieth chapter of Revelation, during
which holiness is to be triumphant throughout the world. Some believe
that, during this period, Christ will reign on earth in person with
his saints.

MILLEPED
Mil"le*ped, n. Etym: [L. millepeda; mille a thousand + pes, pedis,
foot: cf. F. mille-pieds.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A myriapod with many legs, esp. a chilognath, as the
galleyworm. [Written also millipede and milliped.]

MILLEPORA
Mil*le*po"ra, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Hydrocorallia, which includes the millipores.

MILLEPORE
Mil"le*pore, n. Etym: [L. mille thousand + porus pore: cf. F.
millépore.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any coral of the genus Millepora, having the surface nearly
smooth, and perforated with very minute unequal pores, or cells. The
animals are hydroids, not Anthozoa. See Hydrocorallia.

MILLEPORITE
Mil"le*po*rite, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil millepore.

MILLER
Mill"er, n.

1. One who keeps or attends a flour mill or gristmill.

2. A milling machine.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A moth or lepidopterous insect; -- so called because the wings
appear as if covered with white dust or powder, like a miller's
clothes. Called also moth miller.
(b) The eagle ray.
(c) The hen harrier. [Prov. Eng.] Miller's thumb. (Zoöl.) (a) A small
fresh-water fish of the genus Uranidea (formerly Cottus), as the
European species (U. gobio), and the American (U. gracilis); --
called also bullhead. (b) A small bird, as the gold-crest, chiff-
chaff, and long-tailed tit. [Prov. Eng.]

MILLERITE
Mil"ler*ite, n.

Defn: A believer in the doctrine of William Miller (d. 1849), who
taught that the end of the world and the second coming of Christ were
at hand.

MILLERITE
Mil"ler*ite, n. Etym: [From W. H. Miller, of Cambridge, Eng.] (Min.)

Defn: A sulphide of nickel, commonly occurring in delicate capillary
crystals, also in incrustations of a bronze yellow; -- sometimes
called hair pyrites.

MILLESIMAL
Mil*les"i*mal, a. Etym: [L. millesimus, fr. mille a thousand.]

Defn: Thousandth; consisting of thousandth parts; as, millesimal
fractions.

MILLET
Mil"let, n. Etym: [F., dim. of mil, L. milium; akin to Gr. mil.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The name of several cereal and forage grasses which bear an
abundance of small roundish grains. The common millets of Germany and
Southern Europe are Panicum miliaceum, and Setaria Italica.

Note: Arabian millet is Sorghum Halepense.
 -- Egyptian or East Indian, millet is Penicillaria spicata.
 -- Indian millet is Sorghum vulgare. (See under Indian.) -- Italian
millet is Setaria Italica, a coarse, rank-growing annual grass,
valuable for fodder when cut young, and bearing nutritive seeds; --
called also Hungarian grass.
 -- Texas millet is Panicum Texanum.
 -- Wild millet, or Millet grass, is Milium effusum, a tail grass
growing in woods.

MILLI-
Mil"li-. Etym: [From L. mille a thousand.] (Metric System, Elec.,
Mech., etc.)

Defn: A prefix denoting a thousandth part of; as, millimeter,
milligram, milliampère.

MILLIAMPERE
Mil`li*am`père", n. Etym: [Milli- + ampère.] (Elec.)

Defn: The thousandth part of one ampère.

MILLIARD
Mil`liard", n. Etym: [F., from mille, mil, thousand, L. mille.]

Defn: A thousand millions; -- called also billion. See Billion.

MILLIARY
Mil"li*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. milliarius containing a thousand, fr. mille
thousand: cf. F. milliaire milliary. See Mile.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a mile, or to distance by miles; denoting a
mile or miles.
A milliary column, from which they used to compute the distance of
all the cities and places of note. Evelyn.

MILLIARY
Mil"li*a*ry, n.; pl. Milliaries. Etym: [L. milliarium. See Milliary,
a.]

Defn: A milestone.

MILLIER
Mil`lier", n. Etym: [F., fr. mille thousand.]

Defn: A weight of the metric system, being one million grams; a
metric ton.

MILLIFOLD
Mil"li*fold`, a. Etym: [L. mille thousand + E. fold times.]

Defn: Thousandfold. [R.] Davies (Holy Roode).

MILLIGRAM; MILLIGRAMME
Mil"li*gram, Mil"li*gramme, n. Etym: [F. milligramme; milli- milli- +
gramme. See 3d Gram.]

Defn: A measure of weight, in the metric system, being the thousandth
part of a gram, equal to the weight of a cubic millimeter of water,
or .01543 of a grain avoirdupois.

MILLILITER; MILLILITRE
Mil"li*li`ter, Mil"li*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. millilitre; milli- milli-
+ litre. See Liter.]

Defn: A measure of capacity in the metric system, containing the
thousandth part of a liter. It is a cubic centimeter, and is equal to
.061 of an English cubic inch, or to .0338 of an American fluid
ounce.

MILLIMETER; MILLIMETRE
Mil"li*me`ter, Mil"li*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. millimètre; milli- milli-
+ mètre. See 3d Meter.]

Defn: A lineal measure in the metric system, containing the
thousandth part of a meter; equal to .03937 of an inch. See 3d Meter.

MILLIMICRON
Mil"li*mi`cron, n.  [Milli- + micron.]

Defn: The thousandish part of a micron or the millionth part of a
millimeter; -- a unit of length used in measuring light waves, etc.

MILLINER
Mil"li*ner, n. Etym: [From Milaner an inhabitant of Milan, in Italy;
hence, a man from Milan who imported women's finery.]

1. Formerly, a man who imported and dealt in small articles of a
miscellaneous kind, especially such as please the fancy of women.
[Obs.]
No milliner can so fit his customers with gloves. Shak.

2. A person, usually a woman, who makes, trims, or deals in hats,
bonnets, headdresses, etc., for women. Man milliner, a man who makes
or deals in millinery; hence, contemptuously, a man who is busied
with trifling occupations or embellishments.

MILLINERY
Mil"li*ner*y, n.

1. The articles made or sold by milliners, as headdresses, hats or
bonnets, laces, ribbons, and the like.

2. The business of work of a milliner.

MILLINET
Mil`li*net", n.

Defn: A stiff cotton fabric used by milliners for lining bonnets.

MILLING
Mill"ing, n.

Defn: The act or employment of grinding or passing through a mill;
the process of fulling; the process of making a raised or intented
edge upon coin, etc.; the process of dressing surfaces of various
shapes with rotary cutters. See Mill. High milling, milling in which
grain is reduced to flour by a succession of crackings, or of slight
and partial crushings, alternately with sifting and sorting the
product.
 -- Low milling, milling in which the reduction is effected in a
single crushing or grinding.
 -- Milling cutter, a fluted, sharp-edged rotary cutter for dressing
surfaces, as of metal, of various shapes.
 -- Milling machine, a machine tool for dressing surfaces by rotary
cutters.
 -- Milling tool, a roller with indented edge or surface, for
producing like indentations in metal by rolling pressure, as in
turning; a knurling tool; a milling cutter.

MILLION
Mil"lion, n. Etym: [F., from LL. millio, fr. L. mille a thousand. See
Mile.]

1. The number of ten hundred thousand, or a thousand thousand, --
written 1,000, 000. See the Note under Hundred

2. A very great number; an indefinitely large number.
Millions of truths that a man is not concerned to know. Locke.

3. The mass of common people; -- with the article the.
For the play, I remember, pleased not the million. Shak.

MILLIONAIRE
Mil`lion*aire", n. Etym: [F. millionnaire.]

Defn: One whose wealth is counted by millions of francs, dollars, or
pounds; a very rich person; a person worth a million or more.
[Written also millionnaire.]

MILLIONAIRESS
Mil`lion*air"ess, n.

Defn: A woman who is a millionaire, or the wife of a millionaire.
[Humorous] Holmes.

MILLIONARY
Mil"lion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to millions; consisting of millions; as, the
millionary chronology of the pundits. Pinker

MILLIONED
Mil"lioned, a.

Defn: Multiplied by millions; innumerable. [Obs.] Shak.

MILLIONNAIRE
Mil`lion`naire", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Millionaire.

MILLIONTH
Mil"lionth, a.

Defn: Being the last one of a million of units or objects counted in
regular order from the first of a series or succession; being one of
a million.

MILLIONTH
Mil"lionth, n.

Defn: The quotient of a unit divided by one million; one of a million
equal parts.

MILLIPED
Mil"li*ped, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The same Milleped.

MILLISTERE
Mil"li*stere, n. Etym: [F. millistère, from milli- milli- + stère.]

Defn: A liter, or cubic decimeter.

MILLIWEBER
Mil`li*we"ber, n. Etym: [Milli- + weber.] (Physics)

Defn: The thousandth part of one weber.

MILLREA; MILLREE; MILLREIS
Mill"rea`, Mill"ree`, Mill"reis`, n.

Defn: See Milreis.

MILLRIND; MILLRYND
Mill"rind`, Mill"rynd`, n. Etym: [Mill + rynd.] (Her.)

Defn: A figure supposed to represent the iron which holds a millstone
by being set into its center.

MILL-SIXPENCE
Mill"-sixpence, n.

Defn: A milled sixpence; -- the sixpence being one of the first
English coins milled (1561).

MILLSTONE
Mill"stone`, n.

Defn: One of two circular stones used for grinding grain or other
substance.
No man shall take the nether or the upper millstone to pledge. Deut.
xxiv. 6.

Note: The cellular siliceous rock called buhrstone is usually
employed for millstones; also, some kinds of lava, as that
Niedermendig, or other firm rock with rough texture. The surface of a
millstone has usually a series of radial grooves in which the
powdered material collects. Millstone girt (Geol.), a hard and
coarse, gritty sandstone, dividing the Carboniferous from the
Subcarboniferous strata. See Farewell rock, under Farewell, a., and
Chart of Geology.
 -- To see into, or through, a millstone, to see into or through a
difficult matter. (Colloq.)

MILLWORK
Mill"work`, n.

1. The shafting, gearing, and other driving machinery of mils.

2. The business of setting up or of operating mill machinery.

MILLWRIGHT
Mill"wright`, n.

Defn: A mechanic whose occupation is to build mills, or to set up
their machinery.

MILORD
Mi*lord", n. [F. (also It., Sp., Russ.), fr. E. my lord.]

Defn: Lit., my lord; hence (as used on the Continent), an English
nobleman or gentleman.

MILREIS
Mil"reis`, n. Etym: [Pg. mil reis, i. e., one thousand reis; mil a
thousand + reis, pl. of real a rei.]

Defn: A Portuguese money of account rated in the treasury department
of the United States at one dollar and eight cents; also, a Brazilian
money of account rated at fifty-four cents and six mills.

MILT
Milt, n. Etym: [AS. milte; akin to D. milt, G. milz, OHG. milzi,
Icel. milti, Dan. milt, Sw. mjälte, and prob. to E. malt, melt. sq.
root108. See Malt the grain.] (Anat.)

Defn: The spleen.

MILT
Milt, n. Etym: [Akin to Dan. melk, Sw. mjölke, G. milch, and E. milk.
See Milk.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The spermatic fluid of fishes.
(b) The testes, or spermaries, of fishes when filled with
spermatozoa.

MILT
Milt, v. t.

Defn: To impregnate (the roe of a fish) with milt.

MILTER
Milt"er, n. Etym: [Cf. D. milter, G. milcher, milchner. See 2d Milt.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A male fish.

MILTONIAN
Mil*to"ni*an, a.

Defn: Miltonic. Lowell.

MILTONIC
Mil*ton"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Milton, or his writings; as,
Miltonic prose.

MILTWASTE
Milt"waste`, Etym: [1st milt + waste.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small European fern (Asplenium Ceterach) formerly used in
medicine.

MILVINE
Mil"vine, a. Etym: [L. milvus kite.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or resembling birds of the kite kind.

MILVINE
Mil"vine, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird related to the kite.

MILVUS
Mil"vus, n. Etym: [L., a kite.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of raptorial birds, including the European kite.

MIME
Mime, n. Etym: [L. mimus, Gr. mime. Cf. Mimosa.]

1. A kind of drama in which real persons and events were generally
represented in a ridiculous manner.

2. An actor in such representations.

MIME
Mime, v. i.

Defn: To mimic. [Obs.] -- Mim"er, n.

MIMEOGRAPH
Mim"e*o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: An autographic stencil copying device invented by Edison.

MIMESIS
Mi*me"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet. & Biol.)

Defn: Imitation; mimicry.

MIMETENE
Mim"e*tene, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Mimetite.

MIMETIC; MIMETICAL
Mi*met"ic, Mi*met"ic*al,Etym: [Gr.

1. Apt to imitate; given to mimicry; imitative.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Characterized by mimicry; -- applied to animals and plants; as,
mimetic species; mimetic organisms. See Mimicry.

MIMETISM
Mim"e*tism, n. Etym: [From Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Mimicry.

MIMETITE
Mim"e*tite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in pale yellow or brownish hexagonal
crystals. It is an arseniate of lead.

MIMIC; MIMICAL
Mim"ic, Mim"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. mimicus, Gr. mimique. See Mime.]

1. Imitative; mimetic.
Oft, in her absence, mimic fancy wakes To imitate her. Milton.
Man is, of all creatures, the most mimical. W. Wotton.

2. Consisting of, or formed by, imitation; imitated; as, mimic
gestures. "Mimic hootings." Wordsworth.

3. (Min.)

Defn: Imitative; characterized by resemblance to other forms; --
applied to crystals which by twinning resemble simple forms of a
higher grade of symmetry.

Note: Mimic often implies something droll or ludicrous, and is less
dignified than imitative. Mimic beetle (Zoöl.), a beetle that feigns
death when disturbed, esp. the species of Hister and allied genera.

MIMIC
Mim"ic, n.

Defn: One who imitates or mimics, especially one who does so for
sport; a copyist; a buffoon. Burke.

MIMIC
Mim"ic, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mimicked; p. pr. & vb. n. Mimicking.]

1. To imitate or ape for sport; to ridicule by imitation.
The walk, the words, the gesture, could supply, The habit mimic, and
the mien belie. Dryden.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: To assume a resemblance to (some other organism of a totally
different nature, or some surrounding object), as a means of
protection or advantage.

Syn.
 -- To ape; imitate; counterfeit; mock.

MIMICALLY
Mim"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an imitative manner.

MIMICKER
Mim"ick*er, n.

1. One who mimics; a mimic.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal which imitates something else, in form or habits.

MIMICRY
Mim"ic*ry, n.

1. The act or practice of one who mimics; ludicrous imitation for
sport or ridicule.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Protective resemblance; the resemblance which certain animals
and plants exhibit to other animals and plants or to the natural
objects among which they live, -- a characteristic which serves as
their chief means of protection against enemies; imitation; mimesis;
mimetism.

MIMOGRAPHER
Mi*mog"ra*pher, n. Etym: [L. mimographus, Gr. mimographe.]

Defn: A writer of mimes. Sir T. Herbert.

MIMOSA
Mi*mo"sa, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Mime.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of leguminous plants, containing many species, and
including the sensitive plants (Mimosa sensitiva, and M. pudica).

Note: The term mimosa is also applied in commerce to several kinds
bark imported from Australia, and used in tanning; -- called also
wattle bark. Tomlinson.

MIMOTANNIC
Mi`mo*tan"nic, a. Etym: [Mimosa + tannic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a variety of tannin or tannic
acid found in Acacia, Mimosa, etc.

MINA
Mi"na, n.; pl. L. Minæ, E. Minas. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: An ancient weight or denomination of money, of varying value.
The Attic mina was valued at a hundred drachmas.

MINA
Mi"na, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Myna.

MINABLE
Min"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be mined; as, minable earth. Sir T. North.

MINACIOUS
Mi*na"cious, a. Etym: [L. minax, -acis. See Menace.]

Defn: Threatening; menacing. [R.]

MINACITY
Mi*nac"i*ty, n.

Defn: Disposition to threaten. [R.]

MINARET
Min"a*ret, n. Etym: [Sp. minarete, Ar. manarat lamp, lantern,
lighthouse, turret, fr. nar to shine.] (Arch.)

Defn: A slender, lofty tower attached to a mosque and surrounded by
one or more projecting balconies, from which the summon to prayer is
cried by the muezzin.

MINARGENT
Min*ar"gent, n. Etym: [Prob. contr. from aluminium + L. argentum
silver.]

Defn: An alloy consisting of copper, nickel, tungsten, and aluminium;
-- used by jewelers.

MINATORIALLY; MINATORILY
Min`a*to"ri*al*ly, Min"a*to*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a minatory manner; with threats.

MINATORY
Min"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. minatorius, fr. minari to threaten. See
Menace.]

Defn: Threatening; menacing. Bacon.

MINAUL
Mi*naul", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Manul.

MINCE
Mince, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Minced; p. pr. & vb. n. Minging.] Etym:
[AS. minsian to grow less, dwindle, fr. min small; akin to G. minder
less, Goth. minniza less, mins less, adv., L. minor, adj. (cf.
Minor); or more likely fr. F. mincer to mince, prob. from (assumed)
LL. minutiare. Minish.]

1. To cut into very small pieces; to chop fine; to hash; as, to mince
meat. Bacon.

2. To suppress or weaken the force of; to extenuate; to palliate; to
tell by degrees, instead of directly and frankly; to clip, as words
or expressions; to utter half and keep back half of.
I know no ways to mince it in love, but directly to say -- "I love
you." Shak.
Siren, now mince the sin, And mollify damnation with a phrase.
Dryden.
If, to mince his meaning, I had either omitted some part of what he
said, or taken from the strength of his expression, I certainly had
wronged him. Dryden.

3. To affect; to make a parade of. [R.] Shak.

MINCE
Mince, v. i.

1. To walk with short steps; to walk in a prim, affected manner.
The daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched forth
necks and wanton eyes,... mincing as they go. Is. iii. 16.
I 'll... turn two mincing steps Into a manly stride. Shak.

2. To act or talk with affected nicety; to affect delicacy in manner.

MINCE
Mince, n.

Defn: A short, precise step; an affected manner.

MINCE-MEAT
Mince"-meat`, n.

Defn: Minced meat; meat chopped very fine; a mixture of boiled meat,
suet, apples, etc., chopped very fine, to which spices and raisins
are added; -- used in making mince pie.

MINCE PIE
Mince" pie`.

Defn: A pie made of mince-meat.

MINCER
Min"cer, n.

Defn: One who minces.

MINCING
Min"cing, a.

Defn: That minces; characterized by primness or affected nicety.

MINCINGLY
Min"cing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mincing manner; not fully; with affected nicety.

MIND
Mind, n. Etym: [AS. mynd, gemynd; akin to OHG. minna memory, love, G.
minne love, Dan. minde mind, memory, remembrance, consent, vote, Sw.
minne memory, Icel. minni, Goth. gamunds, L. mens, mentis, mind, Gr.
manas mind, man to think. Comment, Man, Mean, v., 3d Mental,
Mignonette, Minion, Mnemonic, Money.]

1. The intellectual or rational faculty in man; the understanding;
the intellect; the power that conceives, judges, or reasons; also,
the entire spiritual nature; the soul; -- often in distinction from
the body.
By the mind of man we understand that in him which thinks, remembers,
reasons, wills. Reid.
What we mean by mind is simply that which perceives, thinks, feels,
wills, and desires. Sir W. Hamilton.
Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. Rom. xiv. 5.
The mind shall banquet, though the body pine. Shak.

2. The state, at any given time, of the faculties of thinking,
willing, choosing, and the like; psychical activity or state; as: (a)
Opinion; judgment; belief.
A fool uttereth all his mind. Prov. xxix. 11.
Being so hard to me that brought your mind, I fear she'll prove as
hard to you in telling her mind. Shak.

(b) Choice; inclination; liking; intent; will.
If it be your minds, then let none go forth. 2 Kings ix. 15.

(c) Courage; spirit. Chapman.

3. Memory; remembrance; recollection; as, to have or keep in mind, to
call to mind, to put in mind, etc. To have a mind or great mind, to
be inclined or strongly inclined in purpose; -- used with an
infinitive. "Sir Roger de Coverly... told me that he had a great mind
to see the new tragedy with me." Addison.
 -- To lose one's mind, to become insane, or imbecile.
 -- To make up one's mind, to come to an opinion or decision; to
determine.
 -- To put in mind, to remind. "Regard us simply as putting you in
mind of what you already know to be good policy." Jowett (Thucyd. ).

MIND
Mind, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Minded; p. pr. & vb. n. Minding.] Etym:
[AS. myndian, gemyndian to remember. See Mind, n.]

1. To fix the mind or thoughts on; to regard with attention; to treat
as of consequence; to consider; to heed; to mark; to note. "Mind not
high things, but condescend to men of low estate." Rom. xii. 16.
My lord, you nod: you do not mind the play. Shak.

2. To occupy one's self with; to employ one's self about; to attend
to; as, to mind one's business.
Bidding him be a good child, and mind his book. Addison.

3. To obey; as, to mind parents; the dog minds his master.

4. To have in mind; to purpose. Beaconsfield.
I mind to tell him plainly what I think. Shak.

5. To put in mind; to remind. [Archaic] M. Arnold.
He minded them of the mutability of all earthly things. Fuller.
I do thee wrong to mind thee of it. Shak.
Never mind, do not regard it; it is of no consequence; no matter.

Syn.
 -- To notice; mark; regard; obey. See Attend.

MIND
Mind, v. i.

Defn: To give attention or heed; to obey; as, the dog minds well.

MINDED
Mind"ed, a.

Defn: Disposed; inclined; having a mind.
Joseph... was minded to put her away privily. Matt. i. 19.
If men were minded to live virtuously. Tillotson.

Note: Minded is much used in composition; as, high-minded, feeble-
minded, sober-minded, double-minded.

MINDER
Mind"er, n.

1. One who minds, tends, or watches something, as a child, a machine,
or cattle; as, a minder of a loom.

2. One to be attended; specif., a pauper child intrusted to the care
of a private person. [Eng.] Dickens.

MINDFUL
Mind"ful, a.

Defn: Bearing in mind; regardful; attentive; heedful; observant.
What is man, that thou art mindful of him Ps. viii. 4.
I promise you to be mindful of your admonitions. Hammond.
-- Mind"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Mind"ful*ness, n.

MINDING
Mind"ing, n.

Defn: Regard; mindfulness.

MINDLESS
Mind"less, a.

1. Not indued with mind or intellectual powers; stupid; unthinking.

2. Unmindful; inattentive; heedless; careless.
Cursed Athens, mindless of thy worth. Shak.

MINE
Mine, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Mien. [Obs.]

MINE
Mine, pron. & a. Etym: [OE. min, fr. AS. min; akin to D. mijn, OS.,
OFries., & OHG. min, G. mein, Sw. & Dan. min, Icel. minn, Goth. meins
my, mine, meina of me, and E. me. Me, and cf. My.]

Defn: Belonging to me; my. Used as a pronominal to me; my. Used as a
pronominal adjective in the predicate; as, "Vengeance is mine; I will
repay." Rom. xii. 19. Also, in the old style, used attributively,
instead of my, before a noun beginning with a vowel.
I kept myself from mine iniquity. Ps. xviii. 23.

Note: Mine is often used absolutely, the thing possessed being
understood; as, his son is in the army, mine in the navy.
When a man deceives me once, says the Italian proverb, it is his
fault; when twice, it is mine. Bp. Horne.
This title honors me and mine. Shak.
She shall have me and mine. Shak.

MINE
Mine, v. i. Etym: [F. miner, L. minare to drive animals, in LL. also,
to lead, conduct, dig a mine (cf. E. lode, and lead to conduct), akin
to L. minari to threaten; cf. Sp. mina mine, conduit, subterraneous
canal, a spring or source of water, It. mina. See Menace, and cf.
Mien.]

1. To dig a mine or pit in the earth; to get ore, metals, coal, or
precious stones, out of the earth; to dig in the earth for minerals;
to dig a passage or cavity under anything in order to overthrow it by
explosives or otherwise.

2. To form subterraneous tunnel or hole; to form a burrow or lodge in
the earth; as, the mining cony.

MINE
Mine, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mined; p. pr. & vb. n. Mining.]

1. To dig away, or otherwise remove, the substratum or foundation of;
to lay a mine under; to sap; to undermine; hence, to ruin or destroy
by slow degrees or secret means.
They mined the walls. Hayward.
Too lazy to cut down these immense trees, the spoilers... had mined
them, and placed a quantity of gunpowder in the cavity. Sir W. Scott.

2. To dig into, for ore or metal.
Lead veins have been traced... but they have not been mined. Ure.

3. To get, as metals, out of the earth by digging.
The principal ore mined there is the bituminous cinnabar. Ure.

MINE
Mine, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. mina. See Mine, v. i.]

1. A subterranean cavity or passage; especially:
(a) A pit or excavation in the earth, from which metallic ores,
precious stones, coal, or other mineral substances are taken by
digging; -- distinguished from the pits from which stones for
architectural purposes are taken, and which are called quarries.
(b) (Mil.) A cavity or tunnel made under a fortification or other
work, for the purpose of blowing up the superstructure with some
explosive agent.

2. Any place where ore, metals, or precious stones are got by digging
or washing the soil; as, a placer mine.gold mine

3. Fig.: A rich source of wealth or other good. Shak. Mine dial, a
form of magnetic compass used by miners.
 -- Mine pig, pig iron made wholly from ore; in distinction from
cinder pig, which is made from ore mixed with forge or mill cinder.
Raymond.

MINER
Min"er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mineur.]

1. One who mines; a digger for metals, etc.; one engaged in the
business of getting ore, coal, or precious stones, out of the earth;
one who digs military mines; as, armies have sappers and miners.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) Any of numerous insects which, in the larval state, excavate
galleries in the parenchyma of leaves. They are mostly minute moths
and dipterous flies.
(b) The chattering, or garrulous, honey eater of Australia (Myzantha
garrula). Miner's elbow (Med.), a swelling on the black of the elbow
due to inflammation of the bursa over the olecranon; -- so called
because of frequent occurrence in miners.
 -- Miner's inch, in hydraulic mining, the amount of water flowing
under a given pressure in a given time through a hole one inch in
diameter. It is a unit for measuring the quantity of water supplied.

MINERAL
Min"er*al, n. Etym: [F. minéral, LL. minerale, fr. minera mine. See
Mine, v. i.]

1. An inorganic species or substance occurring in nature, having a
definite chemical composition and usually a distinct crystalline
form. Rocks, except certain glassy igneous forms, are either simple
minerals or aggregates of minerals.

2. A mine. [Obs.] Shak.

3. Anything which is neither animal nor vegetable, as in the most
general classification of things into three kingdoms (animal,
vegetable, and mineral).

MINERAL
Min"er*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to minerals; consisting of a mineral or of
minerals; as, a mineral substance.

2. Impregnated with minerals; as, mineral waters. Mineral acids
(Chem.), inorganic acids, as sulphuric, nitric, phosphoric,
hydrochloric, acids, etc., as distinguished from the organic acids.
 -- Mineral blue, the name usually given to azurite, when reduced to
an impalpable powder for coloring purposes.
 -- Mineral candle, a candle made of paraffine.
 -- Mineral caoutchouc, an elastic mineral pitch, a variety of
bitumen, resembling caoutchouc in elasticity and softness. See
Caoutchouc, and Elaterite.
 -- Mineral chameleon (Chem.) See Chameleon mineral, under Chameleon.
 -- Mineral charcoal. See under Charcoal.
 -- Mineral cotton. See Mineral wool (below).
 -- Mineral green, a green carbonate of copper; malachite.
 -- Mineral kingdom (Nat. Sci.), that one of the three grand
divisions of nature which embraces all inorganic objects, as
distinguished from plants or animals.
 -- Mineral oil. See Naphtha, and Petroleum.
 -- Mineral paint, a pigment made chiefly of some natural mineral
substance, as red or yellow iron ocher.
 -- Mineral patch. See Bitumen, and Asphalt.
 -- Mineral right, the right of taking minerals from land.
 -- Mineral salt (Chem.), a salt of a mineral acid.
 -- Mineral tallow, a familiar name for hatchettite, from its fatty
or spermaceti-like appearance.
 -- Mineral water. See under Water.
 -- Mineral wax. See Ozocerite.
 -- Mineral wool, a fibrous wool-like material, made by blowing a
powerful jet of air or steam through melted slag. It is a poor
conductor of heat.

MINERALIST
Min"er*al*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. minéraliste.]

Defn: One versed in minerals; mineralogist. [R.]

MINERALIZATION
Min`er*al*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. minéralisation.]

1. The process of mineralizing, or forming a mineral by combination
of a metal with another element; also, the process of converting into
a mineral, as a bone or a plant.

2. The act of impregnating with a mineral, as water.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The conversion of a cell wall into a material of a stony
nature.

MINERALIZE
Min"er*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mineralized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mineralizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. minéraliser.]

1. To transform into a mineral.
In these caverns the bones are not mineralized. Buckland.

2. To impregnate with a mineral; as, mineralized water.

MINERALIZE
Min"er*al*ize, v. i.

Defn: To go on an excursion for observing and collecting minerals; to
mineralogize.

MINERALIZER
Min"er*al*i`zer, n.

Defn: An element which is combined with a metal, thus forming an ore.
Thus, in galena, or lead ore, sulphur is a mineralizer; in hematite,
oxygen is a mineralizer.

MINERALOGICAL
Min`er*al*og"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. minéralogique. See Mineralogy.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to mineralogy; as, a mineralogical table.

MINERALOGICALLY
Min`er*al*og"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: According to the principles of, or with reference to,
mineralogy.

MINERALOGIST
Min`er*al"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. minéralogiste.]

1. One versed in mineralogy; one devoted to the study of minerals.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carrier shell (Phorus).

MINERALOGIZE
Min`er*al"o*gize, v. i.

Defn: To study mineralogy by collecting and examining minerals. Miss
Edgeworth.

MINERALOGY
Min`er*al"o*gy, n.; pl. Mineralogies. Etym: [Mineral + -logy: cf. F.
minéralogie.]

1. The science which treats of minerals, and teaches how to describe,
distinguish, and classify them.

2. A treatise or book on this science.

MINERVA
Mi*ner"va, n. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: The goddess of wisdom, of war, of the arts and sciences, of
poetry, and of spinning and weaving; -- identified with the Grecian
Pallas Athene.

MINETTE
Mi*nette", n.

Defn: The smallest of regular sizes of portrait photographs.

MINEVER
Min"e*ver, n.

Defn: Same as Miniver.

MINGE
Minge, v. t. Etym: [AS. myngian; akin to E. mind.]

Defn: To mingle; to mix. [Obs.]

MINGE
Minge, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupt. fr. midge.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small biting fly; a midge. [Local, U. S.]

MINGLE
Min"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mingled; p. pr. & vb. n. Mingling.]
Etym: [From OE. mengen, AS. mengan; akin to D. & G. mengen, Icel.
menga, also to E. among, and possibly to mix. Cf. Among, Mongrel.]

1. To mix; intermix; to combine or join, as an individual or part,
with other parts, but commonly so as to be distinguishable in the
product; to confuse; to confound.
There was... fire mingled with the hail. Ex. ix. 24.

2. To associate or unite in society or by ties of relationship; to
cause or allow to intermarry; to intermarry.
The holy seed have mingled themselves with the people of those lands.
Ezra ix. 2.

3. To deprive of purity by mixture; to contaminate.
A mingled, imperfect virtue. Rogers.

4. To put together; to join. [Obs.] Shak.

5. To make or prepare by mixing the ingredients of.
[He] proceeded to mingle another draught. Hawthorne.

MINGLE
Min"gle, v. i.

Defn: To become mixed or blended.

MINGLE
Min"gle, n.

Defn: A mixture. [Obs.] Dryden.

MINGLEABLE
Min"gle*a*ble, a.

Defn: That can be mingled. Boyle.

MINGLEDLY
Min"gled*ly, adv.

Defn: Confusedly.

MINGLE-MANGLE
Min"gle-man`gle, v. t. Etym: [Reduplicated fr. mingle.]

Defn: To mix in a disorderly way; to make a mess of. [Obs.] Udall.

MINGLE-MANGLE
Min"gle-man`gle, n.

Defn: A hotchpotch. [Obs.] Latimer.

MINGLEMENT
Min"gle*ment, n.

Defn: The act of mingling, or the state of being mixed.

MINGLER
Min"gler, n.

Defn: One who mingles.

MINGLINGLY
Min"gling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mingling manner.

MINIACEOUS; MINACEOUS
Min`i*a"ceous, a.

Defn: Of the color of minium or red lead; miniate.

MINIARD
Min"iard, a.

Defn: Migniard. [Obs.]

MINIARDIZE
Min"iard*ize, v. t.

Defn: To render delicate or dainty. [Obs.] Howell.

MINIATE
Min"i*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Miniated; p. pr. & vb. n. Miniating.]
Etym: [L. miniatus, p. p. of miniare. See Minium.]

Defn: To paint or tinge with red lead or vermilion; also, to decorate
with letters, or the like, painted red, as the page of a manuscript.
T. Wharton.

MINIATE
Min"i*ate, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the color of red lead or vermilion; painted
with vermilion.

MINIATURE
Min"i*a*ture, n. Etym: [It. miniatura, fr. L. miniare. See Miniate,
v.,Minium.]

1. Originally, a painting in colors such as those in mediæval
manuscripts; in modern times, any very small painting, especially a
portrait.

2. Greatly diminished size or form; reduced scale.

3. Lettering in red; rubric distinction. [Obs.]

4. A particular feature or trait. [Obs.] Massinger.

MINIATURE
Min"i*a*ture, a.

Defn: Being on a small; much reduced from the reality; as, a
miniature copy.

MINIATURE
Min"i*a*ture, v. t.

Defn: To represent or depict in a small compass, or on a small scale.

MINIATURIST
Min"i*a*tur`ist, n.

Defn: A painter of miniatures.

MINIBUS
Min"i*bus, n. Etym: [L. minor less + -bus, as in omnibus.]

Defn: A kind of light passenger vehicle, carrying four persons.

MINIE BALL
Min"ie ball`. Etym: [From the inventor, Captain Minié, of France.]

Defn: A conical rifle bullet, with a cavity in its base plugged with
a piece of iron, which, by the explosion of the charge, is driven
farther in, expanding the sides to fit closely the grooves of the
barrel.

MINIE RIFLE
Min"ie ri"fle.

Defn: A rifle adapted to minie balls.

MINIFY
Min"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Minified; p. pr. & vb. n. Minifying.]
Etym: [L. minor less + -fly.]

1. To make small, or smaller; to diminish the apparent dimensions of;
to lessen.

2. To degrade by speech or action.

MINIKIN
Min"i*kin, n. Etym: [OD. minneken a darling, dim. of minne love; akin
to G. minne, and to E. mind.]

1. A little darling; a favorite; a minion. [Obs.] Florio.

2. A little pin. [Obs.]

MINIKIN
Min"i*kin, a.

Defn: Small; diminutive. Shak.

MINIM
Min"im, n. Etym: [F. minime, L. minimus the least, smallest, a
superl. of minor: cf. It. minima a note in music. See Minor, and cf.
Minimum.]

1. Anything very minute; as, the minims of existence; -- applied to
animalcula; and the like.

2. The smallest liquid measure, equal to about one drop; the sixtieth
part of a fluid drachm.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fish; a minnow. [Prov. Eng.]

4. A little man or being; a dwarf. [Obs.] Milton.

5. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of an austere order of mendicant hermits of friars founded
in the 15th century by St. Francis of Paola.

6. (Mus.)

Defn: A time note, formerly the shortest in use; a half note, equal
to half a semibreve, or two quarter notes or crotchets.

7. A short poetical encomium. [Obs.] Spenser.

MINIM
Min"im, a.

Defn: Minute. "Minim forms." J. R. Drake.

MINIMAL
Min"i*mal, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or having a character of, a minim or
minimum; least; smallest; as, a minimal amount or value.

MINIMENT
Min"i*ment, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupt. of moniment.]

Defn: A trifle; a trinket; a token. [Obs.] Spenser.

MINIMIZATION
Min`i*mi*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of minimizing. Bentham.

MINIMIZE
Min"i*mize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Minimized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Minimizimg.]

Defn: To reduce to the smallest part or proportion possible; to
reduce to a minimum. Bentham.

MINIMUM
Min"i*mum, n.; pl. Minima. Etym: [L., fr. minimus. See Minim.]

Defn: The least quantity assignable, admissible, or possible, in a
given case; hence, a thing of small consequence; -- opposed to Ant:
maximum.

MINIMUM THERMOMETER
Minimum thermometer

Defn: , a thermometer for recording the lowest temperature since its
last adjustment.

MINIMUS
Min"i*mus, n.; pl. Minimi. Etym: [L. See Minim.]

1. A being of the smallest size. [Obs.] Shak.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The little finger; the fifth digit, or that corresponding to
it, in either the manus or pes.

MINING
Min"ing, n. Etym: [See Mine, v. i.]

Defn: The act or business of making mines or of working them.

MINING
Min"ing, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to mines; as, mining engineer; mining
machinery; a mining region. Mining engineering. See the Note under
Engineering.

MINION
Min"ion, n.

Defn: Minimum. [Obs.] Burton.

MINION
Min"ion, n. Etym: [F. mignon, fr. OHG. minni love, G. minne; akin to
E. mind. See Mind, and cf. Mignonette.]

1. A loved one; one highly esteemed and favored; -- in a good sense.
[Obs.]
God's disciple and his dearest minion. Sylvester.
Is this the Athenian minion whom the world Voiced so regardfully
Shak.

2. An obsequious or servile dependent or agent of another; a fawning
favorite. Sir J. Davies.
Go, rate thy minions, proud, insulting boy! Shak.

3. (Print.)

Defn: A small kind of type, in size between brevier and nonpareil.
This line is printed in minion type.

4. An ancient form of ordnance, the caliber of which was about three
inches. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

MINION
Min"ion, a. Etym: [See 2d Minion.]

Defn: Fine; trim; dainty. [Obs.] "Their... minion dancing." Fryth.

MINIONETTE
Min`ion*ette", a.

Defn: Small; delicate. [Obs.] "His minionette face." Walpole.

MINIONETTE
Min"ion*ette, n. (Print.)

Defn: A size of type between nonpareil and minion; -- used in
ornamental borders, etc.

MINIONING
Min"ion*ing, n.

Defn: Kind treatment. [Obs.]

MINIONIZE
Min"ion*ize, v. t.

Defn: To flavor. [Obs.]

MINIONLIKE; MINIONLY
Min"ion*like`, Min"ion*ly, a. & adv.

Defn: Like a minion; daintily. Camden.

MINIONSHIP
Min"ion*ship, n.

Defn: State of being a minion. [R.]

MINIOUS
Min"ious, a. Etym: [L. minium red lead.]

Defn: Of the color of red or vermilion. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

MINISH
Min"ish, v. t. Etym: [OE. menusen, F. menuiser to make small, cut
small, fr. (assumed) LL. minutiare, for minutare, fr. L. minutus
small. See Minute, a., and cf. Diminish, Minge.]

Defn: To diminish; to lessen.
The living of poor men thereby minished. Latimer.

MINISHMENT
Min"ish*ment, n.

Defn: The act of diminishing, or the state of being diminished;
diminution. [Obs.]

MINISTER
Min"is*ter, n. Etym: [OE. ministre, F. ministre, fr. L. minister,
orig. a double comparative from the root of minor less, and hence
meaning, an inferior, a servant. See 1st Minor, and cf. Master,
Minstrel.]

1. A servant; a subordinate; an officer or assistant of inferior
rank; hence, an agent, an instrument.
Moses rose up, and his minister Joshua. Ex. xxiv. 13.
I chose Camillo for the minister, to poison My friend Polixenes.
Shak.

2. An officer of justice. [Obs.]
I cry out the on the ministres, quod he, That shoulde keep and rule
this cité. Chaucer.

3. One to whom the sovereign or executive head of a government
intrusts the management of affairs of state, or some department of
such affairs.
Ministers to kings, whose eyes, ears, and hands they are, must be
answerable to God and man. Bacon.

4. A representative of a government, sent to the court, or seat of
government, of a foreign nation to transact diplomatic business.

Note: Ambassadors are classed (in the diplomatic sense) in the first
rank of public ministers, ministers plenipotentiary in the second.
"The United States diplomatic service employs two classes of
ministers, -- ministers plenipotentiary and ministers resident."
Abbott.

5. One who serves at the altar; one who performs sacerdotal duties;
the pastor of a church duly authorized or licensed to preach the
gospel and administer the sacraments. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Delegate; official; ambassador; clergyman; parson; priest.

MINISTER
Min"is*ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ministered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ministering.] Etym: [OE. ministren, OF. ministrer, fr. L. ministrare.
See Minister, n.]

Defn: To furnish or apply; to afford; to supply; to administer.
He that ministereth seed to the sower. 2 Cor. ix. 10.
We minister to God reason to suspect us. Jer. Taylor.

MINISTER
Min"is*ter, v. i.

1. To act as a servant, attendant, or agent; to attend and serve; to
perform service in any office, sacred or secular.
The Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. Matt.
xx. 28.

2. To supply or to things needful; esp., to supply consolation or
remedies. Matt. xxv. 44.
Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased Shak.

MINISTERIAL
Min`is*te"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. ministerialis: cf. F. ministériel. See
Minister, and cf. Minstrel.]

1. Of or pertaining to ministry or service; serving; attendant.
Enlightening spirits and ministerial flames. Prior.

2. Of or pertaining to the office of a minister or to the ministry as
a body, whether civil or sacerdotal. "Ministerial offices." Bacon. "A
ministerial measure." Junius. "Ministerial garments." Hooker.

3. Tending to advance or promote; contributive. "Ministerial to
intellectual culture." De Quincey. The ministerial benches, the
benches in the House of Commons occupied by members of the cabinet
and their supporters; -- also, the persons occupying them. "Very
solid and very brilliant talents distinguish the ministerial
benches." Burke.

Syn.
 -- Official; priestly; sacerdotal; ecclesiastical.

MINISTERIALIST
Min`is*te"ri*al*ist, n.

Defn: A supporter of the ministers, or the party in power.

MINISTERIALLY
Min`is*te"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a ministerial manner; in the character or capacity of a
minister.

MINISTERY
Min"is*ter*y, n.

Defn: See Ministry. Milton.

MINISTRACY
Min"is*tra*cy, n.

Defn: Ministration. [Obs.]

MINISTRAL
Min"is*tral, a.

Defn: Ministerial. [Obs.] Johnson.

MINISTRANT
Min"is*trant, a. Etym: [L. ministrans, -antis, of ministrare to
minister.]

Defn: Performing service as a minister; attendant on service; acting
under command; subordinate. "Princedoms and dominations ministrant."
Milton.
 -- n.

Defn: One who ministers.

MINISTRATION
Min`is*tra"tion, n. Etym: [L. ministratio, fr. ministrare.]

Defn: The act of ministering; service; ministry. "The days of his
ministration." Luke i. 23.

MINISTRATIVE
Min"is*tra*tive, a.

Defn: Serving to aid; ministering.

MINISTRESS
Min"is*tress, n. Etym: [Cf. L. ministrix.]

Defn: A woman who ministers. Akenside.

MINISTRY
Min"is*try, n.; pl. Ministries. Etym: [L. ministerium. See Minister,
n., and cf. Mystery a trade.]

1. The act of ministering; ministration; service. "With tender
ministry." Thomson.

2. Hence: Agency; instrumentality.
The ordinary ministry of second causes. Atterbury.
The wicked ministry of arms. Dryden.

3. The office, duties, or functions of a minister, servant, or agent;
ecclesiastical, executive, or ambassadorial function or profession.

4. The body of ministers of state; also, the clergy, as a body.

5. Administration; rule; term in power; as, the ministry of Pitt.

MINISTRYSHIP
Min"is*try*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a minister. Swift.

MINIUM
Min"i*um, n. Etym: [L. minium, an Iberian word, the Romans getting
all their cinnabar from Spain; cf. Basque armineá.] (Chem.)

Defn: A heavy, brilliant red pigment, consisting of an oxide of lead,
Pb3O4, obtained by exposing lead or massicot to a gentle and
continued heat in the air. It is used as a cement, as a paint, and in
the manufacture of flint glass. Called also red lead.

MINIVER
Min"i*ver, n. Etym: [See Meniver.]

Defn: A fur esteemed in the Middle Ages as a part of costume. It is
uncertain whether it was the fur of one animal only or of different
animals.

MINIVET
Min"i*vet, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A singing bird of India of the family Campephagidæ.

MINK
Mink, n. Etym: [Cf. 2d Minx.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carnivorous mammal of the genus Putorius, allied to the
weasel. The European mink is Putorius lutreola. The common American
mink (P. vison) varies from yellowish brown to black. Its fur is
highly valued. Called also minx, nurik, and vison.

MINNESINGER
Min"ne*sing`er, n. Etym: [G., fr. minne love + singen to sing.]

Defn: A love-singer; specifically, one of a class of German poets and
musicians who flourished from about the middle of the twelfth to the
middle of the fourteenth century. They were chiefly of noble birth,
and made love and beauty the subjects of their verses.

MINNOW
Min"now, n. Etym: [OE. menow, cf. AS. myne; also OE. menuse, OF.
menuise small fish; akin to E. minish, minute.] [Written also minow.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Phoxinus lævis,
formerly Leuciscus phoxinus); sometimes applied also to the young of
larger kinds; -- called also minim and minny. The name is also
applied to several allied American species, of the genera Phoxinus,
Notropis, or Minnilus, and Rhinichthys.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any of numerous small American cyprinodont fishes of the genus
Fundulus, and related genera. They live both in fresh and in salt
water. Called also killifish, minny, and mummichog.mummichog

MINNY
Min"ny, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A minnow.

MINO BIRD
Mi"no bird". Etym: [Hind. maina.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Asiatic bird (Gracula musica), allied to the starlings. It
is black, with a white spot on the wings, and a pair of flat yellow
wattles on the head. It is often tamed and taught to pronounce words.

MINOR
Mi"nor, a. Etym: [L., a comparative with no positive; akin to AS. min
small, G. minder less, OHG. minniro, a., min, adv., Icel. minni, a.,
minnr, adv., Goth. minniza, a., mins, adv., Ir. & Gael. min small,
tender, L. minuere to lessen, Gr. mi to damage. Cf. Minish, Minister,
Minus, Minute.]

1. Inferior in bulk, degree, importance, etc.; less; smaller; of
little account; as, minor divisions of a body.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: Less by a semitone in interval or difference of pitch; as, a
minor third. Asia Minor (Geog.), the Lesser Asia; that part of Asia
which lies between the Euxine, or Black Sea, on the north, and the
Mediterranean on the south.
 -- Minor mode (Mus.), that mode, or scale, in which the third and
sixth are minor, -- much used for mournful and solemn subjects.
 -- Minor orders (Eccl.), the rank of persons employed in
ecclesiastical offices who are not in holy orders, as doorkeepers,
acolytes, etc.
 -- Minor scale (Mus.) The form of the minor scale is various. The
strictly correct form has the third and sixth minor, with a semitone
between the seventh and eighth, which involves an augmented second
interval, or three semitones, between the sixth and seventh, as, 6/F,
7/G#, 8/A. But, for melodic purposes, both the sixth and the seventh
are sometimes made major in the ascending, and minor in the
descending, scale, thus: --See Major.
 -- Minor term of syllogism (Logic), the subject of the conclusion.

MINOR
Mi"nor, n.

1. A person of either sex who has not attained the age at which full
civil rights are accorded; an infant; in England and the United
States, one under twenty-one years of age.

Note: In hereditary monarchies, the minority of a sovereign ends at
an earlier age than of a subject. The minority of a sovereign of
Great Britain ends upon the completion of the eighteenth year of his
age.

2. (Logic)

Defn: The minor term, that is, the subject of the conclusion; also,
the minor premise, that is, that premise which contains the minor
term; in hypothetical syllogisms, the categorical premise. It is the
second proposition of a regular syllogism, as in the following: Every
act of injustice partakes of meanness; to take money from another by
gaming is an act of injustice; therefore, the taking of money from
another by gaming partakes of meanness.

3. A Minorite; a Franciscan friar.

MINORAT
Mi`no*rat", n. [G. Cf. Minor, a.] (Law)

Defn: A custom or right, analogous to borough-English in England,
formerly existing in various parts of Europe, and surviving in parts
of Germany and Austria, by which certain entailed estates, as a
homestead and adjacent land, descend to the youngest male heir.

MINORATE
Mi"nor*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. minoratus; p. p. of minorare to diminish,
fr. minor, a. See 1st Minor.]

Defn: To diminish. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

MINORATION
Mi`nor*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. minoratio: cf. F. minoration.]

Defn: A diminution. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

MINORESS
Mi"nor*ess, n.

Defn: See Franciscan Nuns, under Franciscan, a.

MINORITE
Mi"nor*ite, n. Etym: [L. minor less. Cf. 2d Minor, 3.]

Defn: A Franciscan friar.

MINORITY
Mi*nor"i*ty, n.; pl. Minorities. Etym: [Cf. F. minorité. See Minor,
a. & n.]

1. The state of being a minor, or under age.

2. State of being less or small. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

3. The smaller number; -- opposed to Ant: majority; as, the minority
must be ruled by the majority.

MINOS
Mi"nos, n. Etym: [Gr. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A king and lawgiver of Crete, fabled to be the son of Jupiter
and Europa. After death he was made a judge in the Lower Regions.

MINOTAUR
Min"o*taur, n. Etym: [L. Minotaurus, Gr. Mi`nos, the husband of
Pasiphaë + tay^ros a bull, the Minotaur being the offspring of
Pasiphaë and a bull: cf. F. minotaure.] (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A fabled monster, half man and half bull, confined in the
labyrinth constructed by Dædalus in Crete.

MINOW
Min"ow, n.

Defn: See Minnow.

MINSTER
Min"ster, n. Etym: [AS. mynster, fr. L. monasterium. See Monastery.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A church of a monastery. The name is often retained and applied
to the church after the monastery has ceased to exist (as Beverly
Minster, Southwell Minster, etc.), and is also improperly used for
any large church. Minster house, the official house in which the
canons of a cathedral live in common or in rotation. Shipley.

MINSTREL
Min"strel, n. Etym: [OE. minstrel, menestral, OF. menestrel, fr. LL.
ministerialis servant, workman (cf. ministrellus harpist), fr. L.
ministerium service. See Ministry, and cf. Ministerial.]

Defn: In the Middle Ages, one of an order of men who subsisted by the
arts of poetry and music, and sang verses to the accompaniment of a
harp or other instrument; in modern times, a poet; a bard; a singer
and harper; a musician. Chaucer.

MINSTRELSY
Min"strel*sy, n.

1. The arts and occupation of minstrels; the singing and playing of a
minstrel.

2. Musical instruments. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. A collective body of minstrels, or musicians; also, a collective
body of minstrels' songs. Chaucer. "The minstrelsy of heaven."
Milton.

MINT
Mint, n. Etym: [AS. minte, fr. L. mentha, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of several aromatic labiate plants, mostly of the
genus Mentha, yielding odoriferous essential oils by distillation.
See Mentha.

Note: Corn mint is Mentha arvensis.
 -- Horsemint is M. sylvestris, and in the United States Monarda
punctata, which differs from the true mints in several respects.
 -- Mountain mint is any species of the related genus Pycnanthemum,
common in North America.
 -- Peppermint is M. piperita.
 -- Spearmint is M. viridis.
 -- Water mint is M. aquatica. Mint camphor. (Chem.) See Menthol.
 -- Mint julep. See Julep.
 -- Mint sauce, a sauce flavored with spearmint, for meats.

MINT
Mint, n. Etym: [AS. mynet money, coin, fr. L. moneta the mint, coined
money, fr. Moneta, a surname of Juno, in whose at Rome money was
coined; akin to monere to warn, admonish, AS. manian, and to E. mind.
See Mind, and cf. Money, Monition.]

1. A place where money is coined by public authority.

2. Hence: Any place regarded as a source of unlimited supply; the
supply itself.
A mint of phrases in his brain. Shak.

MINT
Mint, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Minted; p. pr. & vb. n. Minting.] Etym:
[AS. mynetian.]

1. To make by stamping, as money; to coin; to make and stamp into
money.

2. To invent; to forge; to fabricate; to fashion.
Titles... of such natures as may be easily minted. Bacon.
Minting mill, a coining press.

MINTAGE
Mint"age, n.

1. The coin, or other production, made in a mint.
Stamped in clay, a heavenly mintage. Sterling.

2. The duty paid to the mint for coining.

MINTER
Mint"er, n.

Defn: One who mints.

MINTMAN
Mint"man, n.; pl. Mintmen (.

Defn: One skilled in coining, or in coins; a coiner.

MINT-MASTER
Mint"-mas`ter, n.

Defn: The master or superintendent of a mint. Also used figuratively.

MINT SAUCE
Mint sauce.

1. A sauce of vinegar and sugar flavored with spearmint leaves.

2.  Money. [Slang, Eng.]

MINUEND
Min"u*end, n. Etym: [L. minuendus to be diminished, fr. minuere to
lessen, diminish. See Minish.] (Arith.)

Defn: The number from which another number is to be subtracted.

MINUET
Min"u*et, n. Etym: [F., fr. menu small, L. minutus small. So called
on account of the short steps of the dance. See 4th Minute.]

1. A slow graceful dance consisting of a coupee, a high step, and a
balance.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A tune or air to regulate the movements of the dance so called;
a movement in suites, sonatas, symphonies, etc., having the dance
form, and commonly in 3-4, sometimes 3-8, measure.

MINUM
Min"um, n. Etym: [See 2d Minion, Minum, 6.] [Obs.]

1. A small kind of printing type; minion.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A minim.

MINUS
Mi"nus, a. Etym: [L. See Minor, and cf. Mis- pref. from the French.]
(Math.)

Defn: Less; requiring to be subtracted; negative; as, a minus
quantity. Minus sign (Math.), the sign [-] denoting minus, or less,
prefixed to negative quantities, or quantities to be subtracted. See
Negative sign, under Negative.

MINUSCULE
Mi*nus"cule, n. Etym: [L. minusculus rather small, fr. minus less:
cf. F. minuscule.]

1. Any very small, minute object.

2. A small Roman letter which is neither capital nor uncial; a
manuscript written in such letters.
 -- a.

Defn: Of the size and style of minuscules; written in minuscules.
These minuscule letters are cursive forms of the earlier uncials. I.
Taylor (The Alphabet).

MINUTARY
Min"u*ta*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or consisting of, minutes. [Obs.] Fuller.

MINUTE
Min"ute, n. Etym: [LL. minuta a small portion, small coin, fr. L.
minutus small: cf. F. minute. See 4th Minute.]

1. The sixtieth part of an hour; sixty seconds. (Abbrev. m.; as, 4 h.
30 m.)
Four minutes, that is to say, minutes of an hour. Chaucer.

2. The sixtieth part of a degree; sixty seconds (Marked thus (`); as,
10º 20`.)

3. A nautical or a geographic mile.

4. A coin; a half farthing. [Obs.] Wyclif (Mark xii. 42)

5. A very small part of anything, or anything very small; a jot; a
tittle. [Obs.]
Minutes and circumstances of his passion. Jer. Taylor.

6. A point of time; a moment.
I go this minute to attend the king. Dryden.

7. The memorandum; a record; a note to preserve the memory of
anything; as, to take minutes of a contract; to take minutes of a
conversation or debate.

8. (Arch.)

Defn: A fixed part of a module. See Module.

Note: Different writers take as the minute one twelfth, one
eighteenth, one thirtieth, or one sixtieth part of the module.

MINUTE
Min"ute, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a minute or minutes; occurring at or
marking successive minutes. Minute bell, a bell tolled at intervals
of a minute, as to give notice of a death or a funeral.
 -- Minute book, a book in which written minutes are entered.
 -- Minute glass, a glass measuring a minute or minutes by the
running of sand.
 -- Minute gun, a discharge of a cannon repeated every minute as a
sign of distress or mourning.
 -- Minute hand, the long hand of a watch or clock, which makes the
circuit of the dial in an hour, and marks the minutes.

MINUTE
Min"ute, v. t. Etym: [imp. & p. p. Minuted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Minuting.]

Defn: To set down a short sketch or note of; to jot down; to make a
minute or a brief summary of.
The Empress of Russia, with her own hand, minuted an edict for
universal tolerance. Bancroft.

MINUTE
Mi*nute", a. Etym: [L. minutus, p. p. of minuere to lessen. See
Minish, Minor, and cf. Menu, Minuet.]

1. Very small; little; tiny; fine; slight; slender; inconsiderable.
"Minute drops." Milton.

2. Attentive to small things; paying attention to details; critical;
particular; precise; as, a minute observer; minute observation.

Syn.
 -- Little; diminutive; fine; critical; exact; circumstantial;
particular; detailed.
 -- Minute, Circumstantial, Particular. A circumstantial account
embraces all the leading events; a particular account includes each
event and movement, though of but little importance; a minute account
goes further still, and omits nothing as to person, time, place,
adjuncts, etc.

MINUTE-JACK
Mi*nute"-jack`, n.

1. A figure which strikes the hour on the bell of some fanciful
clocks; -- called also jack of the clock house.

2. A timeserver; an inconstant person. Shak.

MINUTELY
Mi*nute"ly, adv. Etym: [From 4th Minute.]

Defn: In a minute manner; with minuteness; exactly; nicely.

MINUTELY
Min"ute*ly, a. Etym: [From 1st Minute.]

Defn: Happening every minute; continuing; unceasing. [Obs.]
Throwing themselves absolutely upon God's minutely providence.
Hammond.

MINUTELY
Min"ute*ly, adv.

Defn: At intervals of a minute; very often and regularly. J. Philips.
Minutely proclaimed in thunder from heaven. Hammond.

MINUTEMAN
Min"ute*man, n.; pl. Minutemen (.

Defn: A militiaman who was to be ready to march at a moment's notice;
-- a term used in the American Revolution.

MINUTENESS
Mi*nute"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being minute.

MINUTIA
Mi*nu"ti*a, n.; pl. Minutiæ (-e). Etym: [L., fr. minutus small,
minute. See 4th Minute.]

Defn: A minute particular; a small or minor detail; -- used chiefly
in the plural.

MINX
Minx, n. Etym: [Prob. of Low German origin; cf. LG. minsk wench,
jade, hussy, D. mensch; prop. the same word as D. & G. mensch man,
human being, OHG. mennisco, AS. mennisc, fr. man. See Man.]

1. A pert or a wanton girl. Shak.

2. A she puppy; a pet dog. [Obs.] Udall.

MINX
Minx, n. Etym: [See Mink.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The mink; -- called also minx otter. [Obs.]

MINY
Min"y, a.

Defn: Abounding with mines; like a mine. "Miny caverns." Thomson.

MINYAN
Min*yan", n. (Jewish Relig.)

Defn: A quorum, or number necessary, for conducting public worship.

MIOCENE
Mi"o*cene, a. Etym: [Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the middle division of the Tertiary.
 -- n.

Defn: The Miocene period. See Chart of Geology.

MIOHIPPUS
Mi`o*hip"pus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct Miocene mammal of the Horse family, closely related
to the genus Anhithecrium, and having three usable hoofs on each
foot.

MIQUELET
Miq"ue*let, n. Etym: [Sp. miquelete.] (Mil.)

Defn: An irregular or partisan soldier; a bandit.

MIR
Mir, n.

Defn: A Russian village community. D. M. Wallace.

MIR
Mir, n. Etym: [Per. mir.]

Defn: Same as Emir.

MIRA
Mi"ra, n. Etym: [NL., from L. mirus wonderful.] (Astron.)

Defn: A remarkable variable star in the constellation Cetus (o Ceti).

MIRABILARY
Mi*rab"i*la*ry, n.; pl. Mirabilaries (.

Defn: One who, or a work which, narrates wonderful things; one who
writes of wonders. [Obs.] Bacon.

MIRABILIS
Mi*rab"i*lis, n. Etym: [L., wonderful.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants. See Four-o'clock.

MIRABILITE
Mi*rab"i*lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Native sodium sulphate; Glauber's salt.

MIRABLE
Mi"ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. mirabilis, fr. mirari to wonder: cf. OF.
mirable. See Marvel.]

Defn: Wonderful; admirable. [Obs.] Shak.

MIRACLE
Mir"a*cle, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. miraculum, fr. mirari to wonder. See
Marvel, and cf. Mirror.]

1. A wonder or wonderful thing.
That miracle and queen of genus. Shak.

2. Specifically: An event or effect contrary to the established
constitution and course of things, or a deviation from the known laws
of nature; a supernatural event, or one transcending the ordinary
laws by which the universe is governed.
They considered not the miracle of the loaves. Mark vi. 52.

3. A miracle play.

4. A story or legend abounding in miracles. [Obs.]
When said was all this miracle. Chaucer.
Miracle monger, an impostor who pretends to work miracles.
 -- Miracle play, one of the old dramatic entertainments founded on
legends of saints and martyrs or (see 2d Mystery, 2) on events
related in the Bible.

MIRACLE
Mir"a*cle, v. t.

Defn: To make wonderful. [Obs.] Shak.

MIRACULIZE
Mi*rac"u*lize, v. t.

Defn: To cause to seem to be a miracle. [R.] Shaftesbury.

MIRACULOUS
Mi*rac"u*lous, a. Etym: [F. miraculeux. See Miracle.]

1. Of the nature of a miracle; performed by supernatural power;
effected by the direct agency of almighty power, and not by natural
causes.

2. Supernatural; wonderful.

3. Wonder-working. "The miraculous harp." Shak.
 -- Mi*rac"u*lous*ly, adv.
 -- Mi*rac"u*lous*ness, n.

MIRADOR
Mir`a*dor", n. Etym: [Sp., fr. mirar to behold, view. See Mirror.]
(Arch.)

Defn: Same as Belvedere.

MIRAGE
Mi`rage", n. Etym: [F., fr. mirer to look at carefully, to aim, se
mirer to look at one's self in a glass, to reflect, to be reflected,
LL. mirare to look at. See Mirror.]

Defn: An optical effect, sometimes seen on the ocean, but more
frequently in deserts, due to total reflection of light at the
surface common to two strata of air differently heated. The reflected
image is seen, commonly in an inverted position, while the real
object may or may not be in sight. When the surface is horizontal,
and below the eye, the appearance is that of a sheet of water in
which the object is seen reflected; when the reflecting surface is
above the eye, the image is seen projected against the sky. The fata
Morgana and looming are species of mirage.
By the mirage uplifted the land floats vague in the ether, Ships and
the shadows of ships hang in the motionless air. Longfellow.

MIRBANE
Mir"bane, n.

Defn: See Nitrobenzene.

MIRE
Mire, n. Etym: [AS. mire, m; akin to D. mier, Icel. maurr, Dan. myre,
Sw. myra; cf. also Ir. moirbh, Gr.

Defn: An ant. [Obs.] See Pismire.

MIRE
Mire, n. Etym: [OE. mire, myre; akin to Icel. m swamp, Sw. myra
marshy ground, and perh. to E. moss.]

Defn: Deep mud; wet, spongy earth. Chaucer.
He his rider from the lofty steed Would have cast down and trod in
dirty mire. Spenser.
Mire crow (Zoöl.), the pewit, or laughing gull. [Prov. Eng.] -- Mire
drum, the European bittern. [Prov. Eng.]

MIRE
Mire, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mired; p. pr. & vb. n. Miring.]

1. To cause or permit to stick fast in mire; to plunge or fix in mud;
as, to mire a horse or wagon.

2. To soil with mud or foul matter.
Smirched thus and mired with infamy. Shak.

MIRE
Mire, v. i.

Defn: To stick in mire. Shak.

MIRIFIC; MIRIFICAL
Mi*rif"ic, Mi*rif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. mirificus; mirus wonderful + -
ficare (in comp.) to make. See -fy.]

Defn: Working wonders; wonderful.

MIRIFICENT
Mi*rif"i*cent, a.

Defn: Wonderful. [Obs.]

MIRINESS
Mir"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being miry.

MIRK
Mirk, a. Etym: [See Murky.]

Defn: Dark; gloomy; murky. Spenser. Mrs. Browning.

MIRK
Mirk, n.

Defn: Darkness; gloom; murk. "In mirk and mire." Longfellow.

MIRKSOME
Mirk"some, a.

Defn: Dark; gloomy; murky. [Archaic] Spenser.
 -- Mirk"some*ness, n. [Archaic]

MIRKY
Mirk"y, a.

Defn: Dark; gloomy. See Murky.

MIRLITON
Mir"li*ton, n. [F.]

Defn: A kind of musical toy into which one sings, hums, or speaks,
producing a coarse, reedy sound.

Trilby singing "Ben Bolt" into a mirliton was a thing to be
remembered, whether one would or no!
Du Maurier.

MIRROR
Mir"ror, n. Etym: [OE. mirour, F. miroir, OF. also mireor, fr.
(assumed) LL. miratorium, fr. mirare to look at, L. mirari to wonder.
See Marvel, and cf. Miracle, Mirador.]

1. A looking-glass or a speculum; any glass or polished substance
that forms images by the reflection of rays of light.
And in her hand she held a mirror bright, Wherein her face she often
viewèd fair. Spenser.

2. That which gives a true representation, or in which a true image
may be seen; hence, a pattern; an exemplar.
She is mirour of all courtesy. Chaucer.
O goddess, heavenly bright, Mirror of grace and majesty divine.
Spenser.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Speculum. Mirror carp (Zoöl.), a domesticated variety of
the carp, having only three or fur rows of very large scales side.
 -- Mirror plate. (a) A flat glass mirror without a frame. (b) Flat
glass used for making mirrors.
 -- Mirror writing, a manner or form of backward writing, making
manuscript resembling in slant and order of letters the reflection of
ordinary writing in a mirror. The substitution of this manner of
writing for the common manner is a symptom of some kinds of nervous
disease.

MIRROR
Mir"ror, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mirrored; p. pr. & vb. n. Mirroring.]

Defn: To reflect, as in a mirror.

MIRRORSCOPE
Mir"ror*scope, n.  [Mirror + -scope.]

Defn: See Projector, below.

MIRTH
Mirth, n. Etym: [OE. mirthe, murthe, merthe, AS. myredh, myrgedh,
merhedh, mirhedh. See Merry.]

1. Merriment; gayety accompanied with laughter; jollity.
Then will I cause to cease ... from the streets of Jerusalem, the
voice of mirth. Jer. vii. 34.

2. That which causes merriment. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- Merriment; joyousness; gladness; fun; frolic; glee; hilarity;
festivity; jollity. See Gladness.

MIRTHFUL
Mirth"ful, a.

1. Full of mirth or merriment; merry; as, mirthful children.

2. Indicating or inspiring mirth; as, a mirthful face.
Mirthful, comic shows. Shak.
-- Mirth"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Mirth"ful*ness, n.

MIRTHLESS
Mirth"less, a.

Defn: Without mirth.
 -- Mirth"less*ness, n.

MIRY
Mir"y, a. Etym: [From 2d Mire.]

Defn: Abounding with deep mud; full of mire; muddy; as, a miry road.

MIRYACHIT
Mir"ya*chit`, n. [Written also myriachit.] [Yakoot merjäk epileptic,
fr. imerek jerk, rage.] (Med.)

Defn: A nervous disease in which the patient involuntarily imitates
the words or action of another.

MIRZA
Mir"za, n. Etym: [Per. mirza, abbrev. fr. mirzadeh son of the prince;
mir prince (Ar. amir, emir) + zadeh son.]

Defn: The common title of honor in Persia, prefixed to the surname of
an individual. When appended to the surname, it signifies Prince.

MIS-
Mis-. Etym: [In words of Teutonic origin, fr. AS. mis-; akin to D.
mis-, G. miss-, OHG. missa-, missi-, Icel. & Dan. mis-, Sw. miss-,
Goth. missa-; orig., a p. p. from the root of G. meiden to shun, OHG.
midan, AS. mi (Miss to fail of). In words from the French, fr. OF.
mes-, F. mé-, mes-, fr. L. minus less (see Minus). In present usage
these two prefixes are commonly confounded.]

Defn: A prefix used adjectively and adverbially in the sense of
amiss, wrong, ill, wrongly, unsuitably; as, misdeed, mislead,
mischief, miscreant.

MIS
Mis, a. & adv. Etym: [See Amiss.]

Defn: Wrong; amiss. [Obs.] "To correcten that [which] is mis."
Chaucer.

MISACCEPTATION
Mis*ac`cep*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Wrong acceptation; understanding in a wrong sense.

MISACCOMPT
Mis`ac*compt", v. t.

Defn: To account or reckon wrongly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MISADJUST
Mis`ad*just", v. t.

Defn: To adjust wrongly of unsuitably; to throw of adjustment. I.
Taylor.

MISADJUSTMENT
Mis`ad*just"ment, n.

Defn: Wrong adjustment; unsuitable arrangement.

MISADVENTURE
Mis`ad*ven"ture, n. Etym: [OE. mesaventure, F. mésaventure.]

Defn: Mischance; misfortune; ill lick; unlucky accident; ill
adventure. Chaucer. Homicide by misadventure (Law), homicide which
occurs when a man, doing a lawful act, without any intention of
injury, unfortunately kills another; -- called also excusable
homicide. See Homicide. Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- Mischance; mishap; misfortune; disaster; calamity.

MISADVENTURED
Mis`ad*ven"tured, a.

Defn: Unfortunate. [Obs.]

MISADVENTUROUS
Mis`ad*ven"tur*ous, a.

Defn: Unfortunate.

MISADVERTENCE
Mis`ad*vert"ence, n.

Defn: Inadvertence.

MISADVICE
Mis`ad*vice", n.

Defn: Bad advice.

MISADVISE
Mis`ad*vise", v. t.

Defn: To give bad counsel to.

MISADVISED
Mis`ad*vised", a.

Defn: Ill advised.
 -- Mis`ad*vis"ed*ly, adv.

MISAFFECT
Mis`af*fect", v. t.

Defn: To dislike. [Obs.]

MISAFFECTED
Mis`af*fect"ed, a.

Defn: Ill disposed. [Obs.]

MISAFFECTION
Mis`af*fec"tion, n.

Defn: An evil or wrong affection; the state of being ill affected.
[Obs.] Bp. Hall.

MISAFFIRM
Mis`af*firm", v. t.

Defn: To affirm incorrectly.

MISAIMED
Mis*aimed", a.

Defn: Not rightly aimed. Spenser.

MISALLEGATION
Mis*al`le*ga"tion, n.

Defn: A erroneous statement or allegation. Bp. Hall.

MISALLEGE
Mis`al*lege", v. t.

Defn: To state erroneously.

MISALLIANCE
Mis`al*li"ance, n. Etym: [F. mésalliance.]

Defn: A marriage with a person of inferior rank or social station; an
improper alliance; a mesalliance.
A Leigh had made a misalliance, and blushed A Howard should know it.
Mrs. Browning.

MISALLIED
Mis`al*lied", a.

Defn: Wrongly allied or associated.

MISALLOTMENT
Mis`al*lot"ment, n.

Defn: A wrong allotment.

MISALTER
Mis*al"ter, v. t.

Defn: To alter wrongly; esp., to alter for the worse. Bp. Hall.

MISANTHROPE
Mis"an*thrope, n. Etym: [Gr. misanthrope. Cf. Miser.]

Defn: A hater of mankind; a misanthropist.

MISANTHROPIC; MISANTHROPICAL
Mis`an*throp"ic, Mis`an*throp"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
misanthropique.]

Defn: Hating or disliking mankind.

MISANTHROPIST
Mis*an"thro*pist, n.

Defn: A misanthrope.

MISANTHROPOS
Mis*an"thro*pos, n. Etym: [NL. See Misanthrope.]

Defn: A misanthrope. [Obs.] Shak.

MISANTHROPY
Mis*an"thro*py, n. Etym: [Gr. misanthropie.]

Defn: Hatred of, or dislike to, mankind; -- opposed to philanthropy.
Orrery.

MISAPPLICATION
Mis*ap`pli*ca"tion, n.

Defn: A wrong application. Sir T. Browne.

MISAPPLY
Mis`ap*ply", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Misapplied; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misapplying.]

Defn: To apply wrongly; to use for a wrong purpose; as, to misapply a
name or title; to misapply public money.

MISAPPRECIATED
Mis`ap*pre"ci*a`ted, a.

Defn: Improperly appreciated.

MISAPPREHEND
Mis*ap`pre*hend", v. t.

Defn: To take in a wrong sense; to misunderstand. Locke.

MISAPPREHENSION
Mis*ap`pre*hen"sion, n.

Defn: A mistaking or mistake; wrong apprehension of one's meaning of
a fact; misconception; misunderstanding.

MISAPPREHENSIVELY
Mis*ap`pre*hen"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: By, or with, misapprehension.

MISAPPROPRIATE
Mis`ap*pro"pri*ate, v. t.

Defn: To appropriate wrongly; to use for a wrong purpose.

MISAPPROPRIATION
Mis`ap*pro`pri*a"tion, n.

Defn: Wrong appropriation; wrongful use.

MISARRANGE
Mis`ar*range", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Misarranged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misarranging.]

Defn: To place in a wrong order, or improper manner.

MISARRANGEMENT
Mis`ar*range"ment, n.

Defn: Wrong arrangement.

MISASCRIBE
Mis`as*cribe", v. t.

Defn: To ascribe wrongly.

MISASSAY
Mis`as*say", v. t.

Defn: To assay, or attempt, improperly or unsuccessfully. [Obs.] W.
Browne.

MISASSIGN
Mis`as*sign", v. t.

Defn: To assign wrongly.

MISATTEND
Mis`at*tend", v. t.

Defn: To misunderstand; to disregard. [Obs.] Milton.

MISAVENTURE
Mis`a*ven"ture, n.

Defn: Misadventure. [Obs.]

MISAVIZE
Mis`a*vize", v. t.

Defn: To misadvise. [Obs.]

MISBEAR
Mis*bear", v. t.

Defn: To carry improperly; to carry (one's self) wrongly; to
misbehave. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MISBECOME
Mis`be*come", v. t.

Defn: Not to become; to suit ill; not to befit or be adapted to.
Macaulay.
Thy father will not act what misbecomes him. Addison.

MISBECOMING
Mis`be*com"ing, a.

Defn: Unbecoming. Milton.
 -- Mis`be*com"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Mis`be*com"ing*ness, n. Boyle.

MISBEDE
Mis*bede", v. t. [imp. Misbode; p. p. Misboden.] Etym: [AS. mis-
beôdan.]

Defn: To wrong; to do injury to. [Obs.]
Who hath you misboden or offended Chaucer.

MISBEFITTING
Mis`be*fit"ting, a.

Defn: No befitting.

MISBEGOT; MISBEGOTTEN
Mis`be*got", Mis`be*got"ten (, p. a.

Defn: Unlawfully or irregularly begotten; of bad origin; pernicious.
"Valor misbegot." Shak.

MISBEHAVE
Mis`be*have", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Misbehaved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misbehaving.]

Defn: To behave ill; to conduct one's self improperly; -- often used
with a reciprocal pronoun.

MISBEHAVED
Mis`be*haved", a.

Defn: Guilty of ill behavior; illbred; rude. "A misbehaved and sullen
wench." Shak.

MISBEHAVIOR
Mis`be*hav"ior, n.

Defn: Improper, rude, or uncivil behavior; ill conduct. Addison.

MISBELIEF
Mis`be*lief", n.

Defn: Erroneous or false belief.

MISBELIEVE
Mis`be*lieve" (, v. i.

Defn: To believe erroneously, or in a false religion. "That
misbelieving Moor." Shak.

MISBELIEVER
Mis`be*liev"er, n.

Defn: One who believes wrongly; one who holds a false religion. Shak.

MISBESEEM
Mis`be*seem", v. t.

Defn: To suit ill.

MISBESTOW
Mis`be*stow", v. t.

Defn: To bestow improperly.

MISBESTOWAL
Mis`be*stow"al, n.

Defn: The act of misbestowing.

MISBILEVE
Mis`bi*leve", n.

Defn: Misbelief; unbelief; suspicion. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MISBODE
Mis*bode", imp.

Defn: of Misbede.

MISBODEN
Mis*bo"den, p. p.

Defn: of Misbede.

MISBORN
Mis"born`, a.

Defn: Born to misfortune. Spenser.

MISCALCULATE
Mis*cal"cu*late, v. t. & i.

Defn: To calculate erroneously; to judge wrongly.
 -- Mis*cal`cu*la"tion, n.

MISCALL
Mis*call", v. t.

1. To call by a wrong name; to name improperly.

2. To call by a bad name; to abuse. [Obs.] Fuller.

MISCARRIAGE
Mis*car"riage, n.

1. Unfortunate event or issue of an undertaking; failure to attain a
desired result or reach a destination.
When a counselor, to save himself, Would lay miscarriages upon his
prince. Dryden.

2. Ill conduct; evil or improper behavior; as, the failings and
miscarriages of the righteous. Rogers.

3. The act of bringing forth before the time; premature birth.

MISCARRIAGEABLE
Mis*car"riage*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of miscarrying; liable to fail. [R.] Bp. Hall.

MISCARRY
Mis*car"ry, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Miscarried; p. pr. & vb. n.
Miscarrying.]

1. To carry, or go, wrong; to fail of reaching a destination, or fail
of the intended effect; to be unsuccessful; to suffer defeat.
My ships have all miscarried. Shak.
The cardinal's letters to the pope miscarried. Shak.

2. To bring forth young before the proper time.

MISCAST
Mis*cast", v. t.

Defn: To cast or reckon wrongly.

MISCAST
Mis*cast", n.

Defn: An erroneous cast or reckoning.

MISCEGENATION
Mis`ce*ge*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. miscere to mix + the root of genus
race.]

Defn: A mixing of races; amalgamation, as by intermarriage of black
and white.

MISCELLANARIAN
Mis`cel*la*na"ri*an, a. Etym: [See Miscellany.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to miscellanies. Shaftesbury.
 -- n.

Defn: A writer of miscellanies.

MISCELLANE
Mis"cel*lane, n. Etym: [See Miscellaneous, and cf. Maslin.]

Defn: A mixture of two or more sorts of grain; -- now called maslin
and meslin. Bacon.

MISCELLANEA
Mis"cel*la"ne*a, n. pl. Etym: [L. See Miscellany.]

Defn: A collection of miscellaneous matters; matters of various
kinds.

MISCELLANEOUS
Mis`cel*la"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. miscellaneus mixed, miscellaneous,
fr. miscellus mixed, fr. miscere to mix. See Mix, and cf.
Miscellany.]

Defn: Mixed; mingled; consisting of several things; of diverse sorts;
promiscuous; heterogeneous; as, a miscellaneous collection. "A
miscellaneous rabble." Milton.
 -- Mis`cel*la"ne*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Mis`cel*la"ne*ous*ness, n.

MISCELLANIST
Mis"cel*la*nist, n.

Defn: A writer of miscellanies; miscellanarian.

MISCELLANY
Mis"cel*la*ny, n.; pl. Miscellanies. Etym: [L. miscellanea, neut. pl.
of. miscellaneus: cf. F. miscellanée, pl. miscellanées. See
Miscellaneous.]

Defn: A mass or mixture of various things; a medley; esp., a
collection of compositions on various subjects.
'T is but a bundle or miscellany of sin; sins original, and sins
actual. Hewyt.
Miscellany madam, a woman who dealt in various fineries; a milliner.
[Obs.] B. Jonson.

MISCELLANY
Mis"cel*la*ny, a.

Defn: Miscellaneous; heterogeneous. [Obs.] Bacon.

MISCENSURE
Mis*cen"sure, v. t.

Defn: To misjudge. [Obs.] Daniel.
 -- n.

Defn: Erroneous judgment. [Obs.] Sylvester.

MISCHANCE
Mis*chance", n. Etym: [OE. meschance, OF. mescheance.]

Defn: Ill luck; ill fortune; mishap. Chaucer.
Never come mischance between us twain. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Calamity; misfortune; misadventure; mishap; infelicity; disaster.
See Calamity.

MISCHANCE
Mis*chance", v. i.

Defn: To happen by mischance. Spenser.

MISCHANCEFUL
Mis*chance"ful, a.

Defn: Unlucky. R. Browning.

MISCHARACTERIZE
Mis*char"ac*ter*ize, v. t.

Defn: To characterize falsely or erroneously; to give a wrong
character to.
They totally mischaracterize the action. Eton.

MISCHARGE
Mis*charge", v. t.

Defn: To charge erroneously, as in account.
 -- n.

Defn: A mistake in charging.

MISCHIEF
Mis"chief, n. Etym: [OE. meschef bad result, OF. meschief; pref. mes-
(L. minus less) + chief end, head, F. chef chief. See Minus, and
Chief.]

1. Harm; damage; esp., disarrangement of order; trouble or vexation
caused by human agency or by some living being, intentionally or not;
often, calamity, mishap; trivial evil caused by thoughtlessness, or
in sport. Chaucer.
Thy tongue deviseth mischiefs. Ps. lii. 2.
The practice whereof shall, I hope, secure me from many mischiefs.
Fuller.

2. Cause of trouble or vexation; trouble. Milton.
The mischief was, these allies would never allow that the common
enemy was subdued. Swift.
To be in mischief, to be doing harm or causing annoyance.
 -- To make mischief, to do mischief, especially by exciting
quarrels.
 -- To play the mischief, to cause great harm; to throw into
confusion. [Colloq.]

Syn.
 -- Damage; harm; hurt; injury; detriment; evil; ill.
 -- Mischief, Damage, Harm. Damage is an injury which diminishes the
value of a thing; harm is an injury which causes trouble or
inconvenience; mischief is an injury which disturbs the order and
consistency of things. We often suffer damage or harm from accident,
but mischief always springs from perversity or folly.

MISCHIEF
Mis"chief, v. t.

Defn: To do harm to. [Obs.] Milton.

MISCHIEFABLE
Mis"chief*a*ble, a.

Defn: Mischievous. [R.] Lydgate.

MISCHIEFFUL
Mis"chief*ful, a.

Defn: Mischievous. [Obs.] Foote.

MISCHIEF-MAKER
Mis"chief-mak`er, n.

Defn: One who makes mischief; one who excites or instigates quarrels
or enmity.

MISCHIEF-MAKING
Mis"chief-mak`ing, a.

Defn: Causing harm; exciting enmity or quarrels. Rowe.
 -- n.

Defn: The act or practice of making mischief, inciting quarrels, etc.

MISCHIEVOUS
Mis"chie*vous, a.

Defn: Causing mischief; harmful; hurtful; -- now often applied where
the evil is done carelessly or in sport; as, a mischievous child.
"Most mischievous foul sin." Shak.
This false, wily, doubling disposition is intolerably mischievous to
society. South.

Syn.
 -- Harmful; hurtful; detrimental; noxious; pernicious; destructive.
 -- Mis"chie*vous*ly, adv.
 -- Mis"chie*vous*ness, n.

MISCHNA
Misch"na, n.

Defn: See Mishna.

MISCHNIC
Misch"nic, a.

Defn: See Mishnic.

MISCHOOSE
Mis*choose", v. t. [imp. Mischose; p. p. Mischosen; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mischoosing.]

Defn: To choose wrongly. Milton.

MISCHOOSE
Mis*choose", v. i.

Defn: To make a wrong choice.

MISCHRISTEN
Mis*chris"ten, v. t.

Defn: To christen wrongly.

MISCIBILITY
Mis`ci*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. miscibilité.]

Defn: Capability of being mixed.

MISCIBLE
Mis"ci*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. miscible, fr. L. miscere to mix.]

Defn: Capable of being mixed; mixable; as, water and alcohol are
miscible in all proportions. Burke.

MISCITATION
Mis`ci*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Erroneous citation.

MISCITE
Mis*cite", v. t.

Defn: To cite erroneously.

MISCLAIM
Mis*claim", n.

Defn: A mistaken claim.

MISCOGNIZANT
Mis*cog"ni*zant, a. (Law)

Defn: Not cognizant; ignorant; not knowing.

MISCOGNIZE
Mis*cog"nize, v. t.

Defn: To fail to apprehend; to misunderstand. [Obs.] Holland.

MISCOLLOCATION
Mis*col`lo*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Wrong collocation. De Quincey.

MISCOLOR
Mis*col"or, v. t.

Defn: To give a wrong color to; figuratively, to set forth
erroneously or unfairly; as, to miscolor facts. C. Kingsley.

MISCOMFORT
Mis*com"fort, n.

Defn: Discomfort. [Obs.]

MISCOMPREHEND
Mis*com`pre*hend", v. t.

Defn: To get a wrong idea of or about; to misunderstand.

MISCOMPUTATION
Mis*com`pu*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Erroneous computation; false reckoning.

MISCOMPUTE
Mis`com*pute", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Miscount.]

Defn: To compute erroneously. Sir T. Browne.

MISCONCEIT
Mis`con*ceit", n.

Defn: Misconception. [Obs.]

MISCONCEIVE
Mis`con*ceive", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Misconceived; p. pr. & vb.
n. Misconceiving.]

Defn: To conceive wrongly; to interpret incorrectly; to receive a
false notion of; to misjudge; to misapprehend.
Those things which, for want of due consideration heretofore, they
have misconceived. Hooker.

Syn.
 -- To misapprehend; misunderstand; mistake.

MISCONCEIVER
Mis`con*ceiv"er, n.

Defn: One who misconceives.

MISCONCEPTION
Mis`con*cep"tion, n.

Defn: Erroneous conception; false opinion; wrong understanding.
Harvey.

MISCONCLUSION
Mis`con*clu"sion, n.

Defn: An erroneous inference or conclusion. Bp. Hall.

MISCONDUCT
Mis*con"duct, n.

Defn: Wrong conduct; bad behavior; mismanagement. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Misbehavior; misdemeanor; mismanagement; misdeed; delinquency;
offense.

MISCONDUCT
Mis`con*duct", v. t.

Defn: To conduct amiss; to mismanage. Johnson. To misconduct one's
self, to behave improperly.

MISCONDUCT
Mis`con*duct", v. i.

Defn: To behave amiss.

MISCONFIDENT
Mis*con"fi*dent, a.

Defn: Having a mistaken confidence; wrongly trusting. [R.] Bp. Hall.

MISCONJECTURE
Mis`con*jec"ture, n.

Defn: A wrong conjecture or guess. Sir T. Browne.

MISCONJECTURE
Mis`con*jec"ture, v. t. & i.

Defn: To conjecture wrongly.

MISCONSECRATE
Mis*con"se*crate, v. t.

Defn: To consecrate amiss. "Misconsecrated flags." Bp. Hall.

MISCONSECRATION
Mis*con`se*cra"tion, n.

Defn: Wrong consecration.

MISCONSEQUENCE
Mis*con"se*quence, n.

Defn: A wrong consequence; a false deduction.

MISCONSTRUABLE
Mis*con"stru*a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be misconstrued, as language or conduct. R. North.

MISCONSTRUCT
Mis`con*struct", v. t.

Defn: To construct wrongly; to construe or interpret erroneously.

MISCONSTRUCTION
Mis`con*struc"tion, n.

Defn: Erroneous construction; wrong interpretation. Bp.
Stillingfleet.

MISCONSTRUE
Mis*con"strue, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Misconstrued; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misconstruing.]

Defn: To construe wrongly; to interpret erroneously.
Do not, great sir, misconstrue his intent. Dryden.
Much afflicted to find his actions misconstrued. Addison.

MISCONSTRUER
Mis*con"stru*er, n.

Defn: One who misconstrues.

MISCONTENT
Mis`con*tent", a.

Defn: Discontent. [Obs.]

MISCONTINUANCE
Mis`con*tin"u*ance, n. (Law)

Defn: Discontinuance; also, continuance by undue process.

MISCOPY
Mis*copy", v. t.

Defn: To copy amiss.

MISCOPY
Mis*copy", n.

Defn: A mistake in copying. North Am. Rev.

MISCORRECT
Mis`cor*rect", v. t.

Defn: To fail or err in attempting to correct. "Scaliger miscorrects
his author." Dryden.

MISCOUNSEL
Mis*coun"sel, v. t.

Defn: To counsel or advise wrongly.

MISCOUNT
Mis*count", v. t. & i. Etym: [Cf. OF. mesconter, F. mécompter. Cf.
Miscompute.]

Defn: To count erroneously.

MISCOUNT
Mis*count", n. Etym: [Cf. F. mécompte error, OF. mesconte.]

Defn: An erroneous counting.

MISCOVET
Mis*cov"et, v. t.

Defn: To covet wrongfully. [Obs.]

MISCREANCE; MISCREANCY
Mis"cre*ance, Mis"cre*an*cy, n. Etym: [OF. mescreance, F. mécréance
incredulity.]

Defn: The quality of being miscreant; adherence to a false religion;
false faith. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

MISCREANT
Mis"cre*ant, n. Etym: [OF. mescreant, F. mécréant; pref. mes- (L.
minus less) + p. pr. fr. L. credere to believe. See Creed.]

1. One who holds a false religious faith; a misbeliever. [Obs.]
Spenser. De Quincey.
Thou oughtest not to be slothful to the destruction of the
miscreants, but to constrain them to obey our Lord God. Rivers.

2. One not restrained by Christian principles; an unscrupulous
villain; a while wretch. Addison.

MISCREANT
Mis"cre*ant, a.

1. Holding a false religious faith.

2. Destitute of conscience; unscrupulous. Pope.

MISCREATE
Mis`cre*ate", a.

Defn: Miscreated; illegitimate; forged; as, miscreate titles. [Obs.
or Poet.] Shak.

MISCREATE
Mis`cre*ate", v. t.

Defn: To create badly or amiss.

MISCREATED
Mis`cre*at"ed, a.

Defn: Formed unnaturally or illegitimately; deformed. Spenser.
Milton.

MISCREATIVE
Mis`cre*a"tive, a.

Defn: Creating amiss. [R.]

MISCREDENT
Mis*cre"dent, n. Etym: [Pref. mis- + credent. Cf. Miscreant.]

Defn: A miscreant, or believer in a false religious doctrine. [Obs.]
Holinshed.

MISCREDULITY
Mis`cre*du"li*ty, n.

Defn: Wrong credulity or belief; misbelief. Bp. Hall.

MISCUE
Mis*cue", n. (Billiards)

Defn: A false stroke with a billiard cue, the cue slipping from the
ball struck without impelling it as desired.

MISDATE
Mis*date", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Misdated; p. pr. & vb. n. Misdating.]

Defn: To date erroneously. Young.

MISDEAL
Mis*deal", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Misdealt; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misdealing.]

Defn: To deal or distribute wrongly, as cards; to make a wrong
distribution.

MISDEAL
Mis*deal", n.

Defn: The act of misdealing; a wrong distribution of cards to the
players.

MISDEED
Mis*deed", n. Etym: [AS. misd. See Deed, n.]

Defn: An evil deed; a wicked action.
Evils which our own misdeeds have wrought. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Misconduct; misdemeanor; fault; offense; trespass; transgression;
crime.

MISDEEM
Mis*deem", v. t.

Defn: To misjudge. [Obs.] Milton.

MISDEMEAN
Mis`de*mean", v. t.

Defn: To behave ill; -- with a reflexive pronoun; as, to misdemean
one's self.

MISDEMEANANT
Mis`de*mean"ant, n.

Defn: One guilty of a misdemeanor. Sydney Smith.

MISDEMEANOR
Mis`de*mean"or, n.

1. Ill behavior; evil conduct; fault. Shak.

2. (Law)

Defn: A crime less than a felony. Wharton.

Note: As a rule, in the old English law, offenses capitally
punishable were felonies; all other indictable offenses were
misdemeanors. In common usage, the word crime is employed to denote
the offenses of a deeper and more atrocious dye, while small faults
and omissions of less consequence are comprised under the gentler
name of misdemeanors. Blackstone. The distinction, however, between
felonies and misdemeanors is purely arbitrary, and is in most
jurisdictions either abrogated or so far reduced as to be without
practical value. Cf. Felony. Wharton.

Syn.
 -- Misdeed; misconduct; misbehavior; fault; trespass; transgression.

MISDEMPT
Mis*dempt", obs. p. p.

Defn: of Misdeem. Spenser.

MISDEPART
Mis`de*part", v. t.

Defn: To distribute wrongly. [Obs.]
He misdeparteth riches temporal. Chaucer.

MISDERIVE
Mis`de*rive", v. t.

1. To turn or divert improperly; to misdirect. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

2. To derive erroneously.

MISDESCRIBE
Mis`de*scribe", v. t.

Defn: To describe wrongly.

MISDESERT
Mis`de*sert", n.

Defn: Ill desert. [Obs.] Spenser.

MISDEVOTION
Mis`de*vo"tion, n.

Defn: Mistaken devotion.

MISDIET
Mis*di"et, n.

Defn: Improper. [Obs.] Spenser.

MISDIET
Mis*di"et, v. t.

Defn: To diet improperly.

MISDIGHT
Mis*dight", a.

Defn: Arrayed, prepared, or furnished, unsuitably. [Archaic] Bp.
Hall.

MISDIRECT
Mis`di*rect", v. t.

Defn: To give a wrong direction to; as, to misdirect a passenger, or
a letter; to misdirect one's energies. Shenstone.

MISDIRECTION
Mis`di*rec"tion, n.

1. The act of directing wrongly, or the state of being so directed.

2. (Law)

Defn: An error of a judge in charging the jury on a matter of law.
Mozley & W.

MISDISPOSITION
Mis*dis`po*si"tion, n.

Defn: Erroneous disposal or application. Bp. Hall.

MISDISTINGUISH
Mis`dis*tin"guish, v. t.

Defn: To make wrong distinctions in or concerning. Hooker.

MISDIVIDE
Mis`di*vide", v. t.

Defn: To divide wrongly.

MISDIVISION
Mis`di*vi"sion, n.

Defn: Wrong division.

MISDO
Mis*do", v. t. [imp. Misdid; p. p. Misdone; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misdoing.] Etym: [AS. misd. See Do, v.]

1. To do wrongly.
Afford me place to show what recompense To wards thee I intend for
what I have misdone. Milton.

2. To do wrong to; to illtreat. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MISDO
Mis*do", v. i.

Defn: To do wrong; to commit a fault.
I have misdone, and I endure the smart. Dryden.

MISDOER
Mis*do"er, n.

Defn: A wrongdoer. Spenser.

MISDOING
Mis*do"ing, n.

Defn: A wrong done; a fault or crime; an offense; as, it was my
misdoing.

MISDOUBT
Mis*doubt", v. t. & i.

Defn: To be suspicious of; to have suspicion. [Obs.]
I do not misdoubt my wife. Shak.

MISDOUBT
Mis*doubt", n.

1. Suspicion. [Obs.]

2. Irresolution; hesitation. [Obs.] Shak.

MISDOUBTFUL
Mis*doubt"ful, a

Defn: Misgiving; hesitating. [Obs.] "Her misdoubtful mind." Spenser.

MISDREAD
Mis*dread", n.

Defn: Dread of evil. [Obs.]

MISE
Mise, n. Etym: [F. mise a putting, setting, expense, fr. mis, mise,
p. p. of mettre to put, lay, fr. LL. mittere to send.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The issue in a writ of right.

2. Expense; cost; disbursement. [Obs.]

3. A tax or tallage; in Wales, an honorary gift of the people to a
new king or prince of Wales; also, a tribute paid, in the country
palatine of Chester, England, at the change of the owner of the
earldom. [Obs.]

MISEASE
Mis*ease", n. Etym: [OE. mesaise, OF. mesaise.]

Defn: Want of ease; discomfort; misery. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MISEASED
Mis*eased", a.

Defn: Having discomfort or misery; troubled. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MISEASY
Mis*eas"y, a.

Defn: Not easy; painful. [Obs.]

MISEDITION
Mis`e*di"tion, n.

Defn: An incorrect or spurious edition. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

MISEDUCATE
Mis*ed"u*cate, v. t.

Defn: To educate in a wrong manner.

MISEMPLOY
Mis`em*ploy", v. t.

Defn: To employ amiss; as, to misemploy time, advantages, talents,
etc.
Their frugal father's gains they misemploy. Dryden.

MISEMPLOYMENT
Mis`em*ploy"ment, n.

Defn: Wrong or mistaken employment. Johnson.

MISENTER
Mis*en"ter, v. t.

Defn: To enter or insert wrongly, as a charge in an account.

MISENTREAT
Mis`en*treat", v. t.

Defn: To treat wrongfully. [Obs.] Grafton.

MISENTRY
Mis*en"try, n.

Defn: An erroneous entry or charge, as of an account.

MISER
Mi"ser, n. Etym: [L. miser wretched, miserable; cf. Gr. misero
wretched, avaricious.]

1. A wretched person; a person afflicted by any great misfortune.
[Obs.] Spenser.
The woeful words of a miser now despairing. Sir P. Sidney.

2. A despicable person; a wretch. [Obs.] Shak.

3. A covetous, grasping, mean person; esp., one having wealth, who
lives miserably for the sake of saving and increasing his hoard.
As some lone miser, visiting his store, Bends at his treasure,
counts, recounts it o'er. Goldsmith.

4. A kind of large earth auger. Knight.

MISERABLE
Mis"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [F. misérable, L. miserabilis, fr. miserari to
lament, pity, fr. miser wretched. See Miser.]

1. Very unhappy; wretched.
What hopes delude thee, miserable man Dryden.

2. Causing unhappiness or misery.
What 's more miserable than discontent Shak.

3. Worthless; mean; despicable; as, a miserable fellow; a miserable
dinner.
Miserable comforters are ye all. Job xvi. 2.

4. Avaricious; niggardly; miserly. [Obs.] Hooker.

Syn.
 -- Abject; forlorn; pitiable; wretched.

MISERABLE
Mis"er*a*ble, n.

Defn: A miserable person. [Obs.] Sterne.

MISERABLENESS
Mis"er*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being miserable.

MISERABLY
Mis"er*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a miserable; unhappily; calamitously; wretchedly; meanly.
They were miserably entertained. Sir P. Sidney.
The fifth was miserably stabbed to death. South.

MISERATION
Mis`er*a"tion, n.

Defn: Commiseration. [Obs.]

MISERERE
Mis`e*re"re, n. Etym: [L., have mercy, fr. misereri to have mercy,
fr. miser. See Miser.]

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The psalm usually appointed for penitential acts, being the
50th psalm in the Latin version. It commences with the word miserere.

2. A musical composition adapted to the 50th psalm.
Where only the wind signs miserere. Lowell.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A small projecting boss or bracket, on the under side of the
hinged seat of a church stall (see Stall). It was intended, the seat
being turned up, to give some support to a worshiper when standing.
Called also misericordia.

4. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Ileus.

MISERICORDE
Mis"er*i*corde", n. Etym: [F. miséricorde. See Misericordia.]

1. Compassion; pity; mercy. [Obs.]

2. (Anc. Armor.)

Defn: Same as Misericordia, 2.

MISERICORDIA
Mis`e*ri*cor"di*a, n. Etym: [L., mercy, compassion; miser wretched +
cor, cordis, heart.]

1. (O. Law)

Defn: An amercement. Burrill.

2. (Anc. Armor.)

Defn: A thin-bladed dagger; so called, in the Middle Ages, because
used to give the death wound or "mercy" stroke to a fallen adversary.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: An indulgence as to food or dress granted to a member of a
religious order. Shipley.

MISERLY
Mi"ser*ly, a. Etym: [From Miser.]

Defn: Like a miser; very covetous; sordid; niggardly.

Syn.
 -- Avaricious; niggardly; sordid; parsimonious; penurious; covetous;
stingy; mean. See Avaricious.

MISERY
Mi"ser*y, n.; pl. Miseries. Etym: [OE. miserie, L. miseria, fr. miser
wretched: cf. F. misère, OF. also, miserie.]

1. Great unhappiness; extreme pain of body or mind; wretchedness;
distress; woe. Chaucer.
Destruction and misery are in their ways. Rom. iii. 16.

2. Cause of misery; calamity; misfortune.
When we our betters see bearing our woes, We scarcely think our
miseries our foes. Shak.

3. Covetousness; niggardliness; avarice. [Obs.]

Syn.
 -- Wretchedness; torture; agony; torment; anguish; distress;
calamity; misfortune.

MISESTEEM
Mis`es*teem", n. Etym: [Cf. F. mésestime.]

Defn: Want of esteem; disrespect. Johnson.

MISESTIMATE
Mis*es"ti*mate, v. t.

Defn: To estimate erroneously. J. S. Mill.

MISEXPLANATION
Mis*ex`pla*na"tion, n.

Defn: An erroneous explanation.

MISEXPLICATION
Mis*ex`pli*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Wrong explication.

MISEXPOSITION
Mis*ex`po*si"tion, n.

Defn: Wrong exposition.

MISEXPOUND
Mis`ex*pound", v. t.

Defn: To expound erroneously.

MISEXPRESSION
Mis`ex*pres"sion, n.

Defn: Wrong expression.

MISFAITH
Mis*faith", n.

Defn: Want of faith; distrust. "[Anger] born of your misfaith."
Tennyson.

MISFALL
Mis*fall", v. t. [imp. Misfell; p. p. Misfallen (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misfalling.]

Defn: To befall, as ill luck; to happen to unluckily. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MISFARE
Mis*fare", v. i. Etym: [AS. misfaran.]

Defn: To fare ill. [Obs.] -- n.

Defn: Misfortune. [Obs.] Spenser.

MISFASHION
Mis*fash"ion, v. t.

Defn: To form wrongly.

MISFEASANCE
Mis*fea"sance, n. Etym: [OF. pref. mes- wrong (L. minus less) +
faisance doing, fr. faire to do, L. facere. Cf. Malfeasance.] (Law)

Defn: A trespass; a wrong done; the improper doing of an act which a
person might lawfully do. Bouvier. Wharton.

MISFEATURE
Mis*fea"ture, n.

Defn: Ill feature. [R.] Keats.

MISFEELING
Mis*feel"ing, a.

Defn: Insensate. [Obs.] Wyclif.

MISFEIGN
Mis*feign", v. i.

Defn: To feign with an evil design. [Obs.] Spenser.

MISFIT
Mis*fit", n.

1. The act or the state of fitting badly; as, a misfit in making a
coat; a ludicrous misfit.

2. Something that fits badly, as a garment.
I saw an uneasy change in Mr. Micawber, which sat tightly on him, as
if his new duties were a misfit. Dickens.

MISFORM
Mis*form", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Misformed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misforming.]

Defn: To make in an ill form. Spenser.

MISFORMATION
Mis`for*ma"tion, n.

Defn: Malformation.

MISFORTUNATE
Mis*for"tu*nate, a.

Defn: Producing misfortune. [Obs.]

MISFORTUNE
Mis*for"tune, n.

Defn: Bad fortune or luck; calamity; an evil accident; disaster;
mishap; mischance.
Consider why the change was wrought, You 'll find his misfortune, not
his fault. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Calamity; mishap; mischance; misadventure; ill; harm; disaster.
See Calamity.

MISFORTUNE
Mis*for"tune, v. i.

Defn: To happen unluckily or unfortunately; to miscarry; to fail.
[Obs.] Stow.

MISFORTUNED
Mis*for"tuned, a.

Defn: Unfortunate. [Obs.]

MISFRAME
Mis*frame", v. t.

Defn: To frame wrongly.

MISGET
Mis*get", v. t.

Defn: To get wrongfully. [Obs.]

MISGIE
Mis*gie", v. t.

Defn: See Misgye. [Obs.]

MISGIVE
Mis*give", v. t. [imp. Misgave; p. p. Misgiven; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misgiving.]

1. To give or grant amiss. [Obs.] Laud.

2. Specifically: To give doubt and apprehension to, instead of
confidence and courage; to impart fear to; to make irresolute; --
usually said of the mind or heart, and followed by the objective
personal pronoun.
So doth my heart misgive me in these conflicts What may befall him,
to his harm and ours. Shak.
Such whose consciences misgave them, how ill they had deserved.
Milton.

3. To suspect; to dread. [Obs.] Shak.

MISGIVE
Mis*give", v. i.

Defn: To give out doubt and apprehension; to be fearful or
irresolute. "My mind misgives." Shak.

MISGIVING
Mis*giv"ing, n.

Defn: Evil premonition; doubt; distrust. "Suspicious and misgivings."
South.

MISGO
Mis*go", v. i.

Defn: To go astray. Spenser.

MISGOTTEN
Mis*got"ten, a.

Defn: Unjustly gotten. Spenser.

MISGOVERN
Mis*gov"ern, v. t.

Defn: To govern ill; as, to misgovern a country. Knolles.

MISGOVERNANCE
Mis*gov"ern*ance, n.

Defn: Misgovernment; misconduct; misbehavior. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Spenser.

MISGOVERNED
Mis*gov"erned, a.

Defn: Ill governed, as a people; ill directed. "Rude, misgoverned
hands." Shak.

MISGOVERNMENT
Mis*gov"ern*ment, n.

Defn: Bad government; want of government. Shak.

MISGRACIOUS
Mis*gra"cious, a.

Defn: Not gracious. [Obs.]

MISGRAFF
Mis*graff", v. t.

Defn: To misgraft. [Obs.] Shak.

MISGRAFT
Mis*graft", v. t.

Defn: To graft wrongly.

MISGROUND
Mis*ground", v. t.

Defn: To found erroneously. "Misgrounded conceit." Bp. Hall.

MISGROWTH
Mis*growth", n.

Defn: Bad growth; an unnatural or abnormal growth.

MISGUESS
Mis*guess", v. t. & i.

Defn: To guess wrongly.

MISGUIDANCE
Mis*guid"ance, n.

Defn: Wrong guidance.

MISGUIDE
Mis*guide", v. t.

Defn: To guide wrongly; to lead astray; as, to misguide the
understanding.

MISGUIDE
Mis*guide", n.

Defn: Misguidance; error. [Obs.] Spenser.

MISGUIDING
Mis*guid"ing, a.

Defn: Misleading.
 -- Mis*guid"ing*ly, adv.

MISGYE
Mis*gye", v. t.

Defn: To misguide. [Obs.]

MISHANDLE
Mis*han"dle, v. t.

Defn: To handle ill or wrongly; to maltreat.

MISHAP
Mis*hap", n.

Defn: Evil accident; ill luck; misfortune; mischance. Chaucer.
Secure from worldly chances and mishaps. Shak.

MISHAP
Mis*hap", v. i.

Defn: To happen unluckily; -- used impersonally. [Obs.] "If that me
mishap." Chaucer.

MISHAPPEN
Mis*hap"pen, v. i.

Defn: To happen ill or unluckily. Spenser.

MISHAPPY
Mis*hap"py, a.

Defn: Unhappy. [Obs.]

MISHCUP
Mish*cup", n. Etym: [See Scup.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The scup. [Local, U. S.]

MISHEAR
Mis*hear", v. t. & i.

Defn: To hear incorrectly.

MISHMASH
Mish"mash`, n. Etym: [Cf. G. mish-mash, fr. mischen to mix.]

Defn: A hotchpotch. Sir T. Herbert.

MISHNA
Mish"na, n. Etym: [NHeb. mishnah, i. e., repetition, doubling,
explanation (of the divine law), fr. Heb. shanah to change, to
repeat.]

Defn: A collection or digest of Jewish traditions and explanations of
Scripture, forming the text of the Talmud. [Written also Mischna.]

MISHNIC
Mish"nic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Mishna.

MISIMAGINATION
Mis`im*ag`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: Wrong imagination; delusion. Bp. Hall.

MISIMPROVE
Mis`im*prove", v. t.

Defn: To use for a bad purpose; to abuse; to misuse; as, to
misimprove time, talents, advantages, etc. South.

MISIMPROVEMENT
Mis`im*prove"ment, n.

Defn: Ill use or employment; use for a bad purpose.

MISINCLINE
Mis"in*cline", v. t.

Defn: To cause to have a wrong inclination or tendency; to affect
wrongly.

MISINFER
Mis`in*fer", v. t.

Defn: To infer incorrectly.

MISINFORM
Mis`in*form", v. t.

Defn: To give untrue information to; to inform wrongly.

MISINFORM
Mis`in*form", v. i.

Defn: To give untrue information; (with against) to calumniate. [R.]
Bp. Montagu.

MISINFORMANT
Mis`in*form"ant, n.

Defn: A misinformer.

MISINFORMATION
Mis*in`for*ma"tion, n.

Defn: Untrue or incorrect information. Bacon.

MISINFORMER
Mis`in*form"er, n.

Defn: One who gives or incorrect information.

MISINSTRUCT
Mis`in*struct", v. t.

Defn: To instruct amiss.

MISINSTRUCTION
Mis`in*struc"tion, n.

Defn: Wrong or improper instruction.

MISINTELLIGENCE
Mis`in*tel"li*gence, n.

1. Wrong information; misinformation.

2. Disagreement; misunderstanding. [Obs.]

MISINTEND
Mis`in*tend", v. t.

Defn: To aim amiss. [Obs.]

MISINTERPRET
Mis`in*ter"pret, v. t.

Defn: To interpret erroneously; to understand or to explain in a
wrong sense.

MISINTERPRETABLE
Mis`in*ter"pret*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being misinterpreted; liable to be misunderstood.

MISINTERPRETATION
Mis`in*ter"pre*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of interpreting erroneously; a mistaken interpretation.

MISINTERPRETER
Mis`in*ter"pret*er, n.

Defn: One who interprets erroneously.

MISJOIN
Mis*join", v. t.

Defn: To join unfitly or improperly.

MISJOINDER
Mis*join"der, n. (Law)

Defn: An incorrect union of parties or of causes of action in a
procedure, criminal or civil. Wharton.

MISJUDGE
Mis*judge", v. t. & i.

Defn: To judge erroneously or unjustly; to err in judgment; to
misconstrue.

MISJUDGMENT
Mis*judg"ment, n. Etym: [Written also misjudgement.]

Defn: A wrong or unjust judgment.

MISKEEP
Mis*keep", v. t.

Defn: To keep wrongly. Chaucer.

MISKEN
Mis*ken", v. t.

Defn: Not to know. [Obs.]

MISKIN
Mis"kin, n. Etym: [Prob. for music + -kin.] (Mus.)

Defn: A little bagpipe. [Obs.] Drayton.

MISKINDLE
Mis*kin"dle, v. t.

Defn: To kindle amiss; to inflame to a bad purpose; to excite
wrongly.

MISKNOW
Mis*know", v. t.

Defn: To have a mistaken notion of or about. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

MISLACTATION
Mis`lac*ta"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: Defective flow or vitiated condition of the milk.

MISLAY
Mis*lay", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mislaid; p. pr. & vb. n. Mislaying.]

1. To lay in a wrong place; to ascribe to a wrong source.
The fault is generally mislaid upon nature. Locke.

2. To lay in a place not recollected; to lose.
The... charter, indeed, was unfortunately mislaid: and the prayer of
their petition was to obtain one of like import in its stead. Hallam.

MISLAYER
Mis*lay"er, n.

Defn: One who mislays.

MISLE
Mi"sle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Misled; p. pr. & vb. n. Misling.] Etym:
[Prop. mistle, fr. mist. Cf. Mistle, Mizzle.]

Defn: To rain in very fine drops, like a thick mist; to mizzle.

MISLE
Mi"sle, n.

Defn: A fine rain; a thick mist; mizzle.

MISLEAD
Mis*lead", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Misled; p. pr. & vb. n. Misleading.]
Etym: [AS. misl. See Mis-, and Lead to conduct.]

Defn: To lead into a wrong way or path; to lead astray; to guide into
error; to cause to mistake; to deceive.
Trust not servants who mislead or misinform you. Bacon.
To give due light To the mislead and lonely traveler. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To delude; deceive. See Deceive.

MISLEADER
Mis*lead"er, n.

Defn: One who leads into error.

MISLEADING
Mis*lead"ing, a.

Defn: Leading astray; delusive.

MISLEARN
Mis*learn", v. t.

Defn: To learn wrongly.

MISLED
Mis*led", imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Mislead.

MISLEN
Mis"len, n.

Defn: See Maslin.

MISLETOE
Mis"le*toe, n.

Defn: See Mistletoe.

MISLIGHT
Mis*light", v. t.

Defn: To deceive or lead astray with a false light. Herrick.

MISLIKE
Mis*like", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Misliked; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misliking.] Etym: [AS. mislician to displease. See Like, v.]

Defn: To dislike; to disapprove of; to have aversion to; as, to
mislike a man.
Who may like or mislike what he says. I. Taylor.

MISLIKE
Mis*like", n.

Defn: Dislike; disapprobation; aversion.

MISLIKER
Mis*lik"er, n.

Defn: One who dislikes.

MISLIKING
Mis*lik"ing, n.

Defn: Dislike; aversion.

MISLIN
Mis"lin, n. & a.

Defn: See Maslin.

MISLIVE
Mis*live", v. i.

Defn: To live amiss.

MISLODGE
Mis*lodge", v. t.

Defn: To lodge amiss. [Obs.]

MISLUCK
Mis*luck", n.

Defn: Ill luck; misfortune.

MISLY
Mis"ly, a.

Defn: Raining in very small drops.

MISMAKE
Mis*make", v. t.

Defn: To make or form amiss; to spoil in making. "Limping
possibilities of mismade human nature." Mrs. Browning.

MISMAKE
Mis*make" (mis*mak"), v. t.

Defn: To make or form amiss; to spoil in making. "Limping
possibilities of mismade human nature."  Mrs. Browning.

MISMANAGE
Mis*man"age, v. t. & i.

Defn: To manage ill or improperly; as, to mismanage public affairs.

MISMANAGEMENT
Mis*man"age*ment, n.

Defn: Wrong or bad management; as, he failed through mismagement.

MISMANAGER
Mis*man"a*ger, n.

Defn: One who manages ill.

MISMARK
Mis*mark", v. t.

Defn: To mark wrongly.

MISMATCH
Mis*match", v. t.

Defn: To match unsuitably.

MISMATE
Mis*mate", v. t.

Defn: To mate wrongly or unsuitably; as, to mismate gloves or shoes;
a mismated couple.

MISMEASURE
Mis*meas"ure, v. t.

Defn: To measure or estimate incorrectly.

MISMEASUREMENT
Mis*meas"ure*ment, n.

Defn: Wrong measurement.

MISMETER
Mis*me"ter, v. t.

Defn: To give the wrong meter to, as to a line of verse. [R.]
Chaucer.

MISNAME
Mis*name", v. t.

Defn: To call by the wrong name; to give a wrong or inappropriate
name to.

MISNOMER
Mis*no"mer, n. Etym: [OF. pref. mes- amiss, wrong (L. minus less) +
F. nommer to name, L. nominare, fr. nomen name. See Name.]

Defn: The misnaming of a person in a legal instrument, as in a
complaint or indictment; any misnaming of a person or thing; a wrong
or inapplicable name or title.
Many of the changes, by a great misnomer, called parliamentary
"reforms". Burke.
The word "synonym" is fact a misnomer. Whatel

MISNOMER
Mis*no"mer, v. t.

Defn: To misname. [R.]

MISNUMBER
Mis*num"ber, v. t.

Defn: To number wrongly.

MISNURTURE
Mis*nur"ture, v. t.

Defn: To nurture or train wrongly; as, to misnurture children. Bp.
Hall.

MISOBEDIENCE
Mis`o*be"di*ence, n.

Defn: Mistaken obedience; disobedience. [Obs.] Milton.

MISOBSERVE
Mis`ob*serve", v. t.

Defn: To observe inaccurately; to mistake in observing. Locke.

MISOBSERVER
Mis`ob*serv"er, n.

Defn: One who misobserves; one who fails to observe properly.

MISOGAMIST
Mi*sog"a*mist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A hater of marriage.

MISOGAMY
Mi*sog"a*my, n. Etym: [Cf. F. misogamie.]

Defn: Hatre

MISOGYNIST
Mi*sog"y*nist, n. Etym: [Gr. misogyne.]

Defn: A woman hater. Fuller.

MISOGYNOUS
Mi*sog"y*nous, a.

Defn: Hating women.

MISOGYNY
Mi*sog"y*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. misogynie.]

Defn: Hatred of women. Johnson.

MISOLOGY
Mi*sol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Hatred of argument or discussion; hatred of enlightenment. G.
H. Lewes.

MISOPINION
Mis`o*pin"ion, n.

Defn: Wrong opinion. [Obs.]

MISORDER
Mis*or"der, v. t.

Defn: To order ill; to manage erroneously; to conduct badly. [Obs.]
Shak.

MISORDER
Mis*or"der, n.

Defn: Irregularity; disorder. [Obs.] Camden.

MISORDERLY
Mis*or"der*ly, a.

Defn: Irregular; disorderly. [Obs.]

MISORDINATION
Mis*or`di*na"tion, n.

Defn: Wrong ordination.

MISOTHEISM
Mis"o*the`ism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Hatred of God. De Quincey.

MISPAINT
Mis*paint", v. t.

Defn: To paint ill, or wrongly.

MISPASSION
Mis*pas"sion, n.

Defn: Wrong passion or feeling. [Obs.]

MISPAY
Mis*pay", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Appay.]

Defn: To dissatisfy. [Obs.]

MISPELL; MISPEND
Mis*pell", v. t., Mis*pend" (, v. t., etc.

Defn: See Misspell, Misspend, etc.

MISPENSE
Mis*pense", n.

Defn: See Misspense. Bp. Hall.

MISPERCEPTION
Mis`per*cep"tion, n.

Defn: Erroneous perception.

MISPERSUADE
Mis`per*suade", v. t.

Defn: To persuade amiss.

MISPERSUASION
Mis`per*sua"sion, n.

Defn: A false persuasion; wrong notion or opinion. Dr. H. More.

MISPICKEL
Mis*pick"el, n. Etym: [G.] (Min.)

Defn: Arsenical iron pyrites; arsenopyrite.

MISPLACE
Mis*place", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Misplaced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misplacing.]

Defn: To put in a wrong place; to set or place on an improper or
unworthy object; as, he misplaced his confidence.

MISPLACEMENT
Mis*place"ment, n.

Defn: The act of misplacing, or the state of being misplaced.

MISPLEAD
Mis*plead", v. i.

Defn: To err in pleading.

MISPLEADING
Mis*plead"ing, n. (Law)

Defn: An error in pleading.

MISPOINT
Mis*point", v. t.

Defn: To point improperly; to punctuate wrongly.

MISPOLICY
Mis*pol"i*cy, n.

Defn: Wrong policy; impolicy.

MISPRACTICE
Mis*prac"tice, n.

Defn: Wrong practice.

MISPRAISE
Mis*praise", v. t.

Defn: To praise amiss.

MISPRINT
Mis*print", v. t.

Defn: To print wrong.

MISPRINT
Mis*print", n.

Defn: A mistake in printing; a deviation from the copy; as, a book
full of misprints.

MISPRISE
Mis*prise", v. t.

Defn: See Misprize. [Obs.] Shak.

MISPRISE
Mis*prise", v. t. Etym: [OF. mesprise mistake, F. méprise, fr.
mespris, masc., mesprise, fem., p. p. of mesprendre to mistake; F.
méprendre; pref. mes- amiss + prendre to take, L. prehendere.]

Defn: To mistake. [Obs.] Shak.

MISPRISION
Mis*pri"sion, n. Etym: [LL. misprisio, or OF. mesprison, prop., a
mistaking, but confused with OF. mespris contempt, F. mépris. See 2d
Misprise, Misprize, Prison.]

1. The act of misprising; misapprehension; misconception; mistake.
[Archaic] Fuller.
The misprision of this passage has aided in fostering the delusive
notion. Hare.

2. Neglect; undervaluing; contempt. [Obs.] Shak.

3. (Law)

Defn: A neglect, negligence, or contempt.

Note: In its larger and older sense it was used to signify "every
considerable misdemeanor which has not a certain name given to it in
the law." Russell. In a more modern sense it is applied exclusively
to two offenses: --1. Misprision of treason, which is omission to
notify the authorities of an act of treason by a person cognizant
thereof. Stephen. 2. Misprision of felony, which is a concealment of
a felony by a person cognizant thereof. Stephen.

MISPRIZE
Mis*prize", v. t. Etym: [OF. mesprisier to deprise, F. mépriser;
pref. amiss, wrong (L. minus less + LL. pretium price. See price,
Prize, v.]

Defn: To slight or undervalue.
O, for those vanished hours, so much misprized! Hillhouse.
I do not blame them, madam, nor misprize. Mrs. Browning.

MISPROCEEDING
Mis`pro*ceed"ing, n.

Defn: Wrong or irregular proceding.

MISPROFESS
Mis`pro*fess", v. i.

Defn: To make a false profession; to make pretensions to skill which
is not possessed.

MISPROFESS
Mis`pro*fess", v. t.

Defn: To make a false profession of.

MISPRONOUNCE
Mis`pro*nounce", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Mispronounced; p. pr. & vb.
n. Mispronouncing.]

Defn: To pronounce incorrectly.

MISPRONUNCIATION
Mis`pro*nun`ci*a"tion ( or ), n.

Defn: Wrong or improper pronunciation.

MISPROPORTION
Mis`pro*por"tion, v. t.

Defn: To give wrong proportions to; to join without due proportion.

MISPROUD
Mis*proud", a.

Defn: Viciously proud. [Obs.] Shak.

MISPUNCTUATE
Mis*punc"tu*ate, v. t.

Defn: To punctuate wrongly or incorrectly.

MISQUOTATION
Mis`quo*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Erroneous or inaccurate quotation.

MISQUOTE
Mis*quote", v. t. & i.

Defn: To quote erroneously or incorrectly. Shak.

MISRAISE
Mis*raise", v. t.

Defn: To raise or exite unreasonable. "Misraised fury." Bp. Hall.

MISRATE
Mis*rate", v. t.

Defn: To rate erroneously.

MISREAD
Mis*read", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Misread; p. pr. & vb. n. Misreading.]

Defn: To read amiss; to misunderstand in reading.

MISRECEIVE
Mis`re*ceive", v. t.

Defn: To receive wrongly.

MISRECITAL
Mis`re*cit"al, n.

Defn: An inaccurate recital.

MISRECITE
Mis`re*cite", v. t. & i.

Defn: To recite erroneously.

MISRECKON
Mis*reck"on, v. t. & i.

Defn: To reckon wrongly; to miscalculate. Swift.

MISRECKONING
Mis*reck"on*ing, n.

Defn: An erroneous computation.

MISRECOLLECT
Mis*rec`ol*lect", v. t. & i.

Defn: To have an erroneous remembrance of; to suppose erroneously
that one recollects. Hitchcock.

MISRECOLLECTION
Mis*rec`ol*lec"tion, n.

Defn: Erroneous or inaccurate recollection.

MISREFORM
Mis`re*form", v. t.

Defn: To reform wrongly or imperfectly.

MISREGARD
Mis`re*gard", n.

Defn: Wrong understanding; misconstruction. [Obs.] Spenser.

MISREGULATE
Mis*reg"u*late, v. t.

Defn: To regulate wrongly or imperfectly; to fail to regulate.

MISREHEARSE
Mis`re*hearse", v. t.

Defn: To rehearse or quote incorrectly. Sir T. More.

MISRELATE
Mis`re*late", v. t.

Defn: To relate inaccurately.

MISRELATION
Mis`re*la"tion, n.

Defn: Erroneous relation or narration. Abp. Bramhall.

MISRELIGION
Mis`re*li"gion, n.

Defn: False religion. [R.]

MISREMEMBER
Mis`re*mem"ber, v. t. & i.

Defn: To mistake in remembering; not to remember correctly. Sir T.
More.

MISRENDER
Mis*ren"der, v. t.

Defn: To render wrongly; to translate or recite wrongly. Boyle.

MISREPEAT
Mis`re*peat", v. t.

Defn: To repeat wrongly; to give a wrong version of. Gov. Winthrop.

MISREPORT
Mis`re*port", v. t. & i.

Defn: To report erroneously; to give an incorrect account of. Locke.

MISREPORT
Mis`re*port", n.

Defn: An erroneous report; a false or incorrect account given.
Denham. South.

MISREPRESENT
Mis*rep`re*sent", v. t.

Defn: To represent incorrectly (almost always, unfacorably); to give
a false erroneous representation of, either maliciously, ignirantly,
or carelessly. Swift.

MISREPRESENT
Mis*rep`re*sent", v. i.

Defn: To make an incorrect or untrue representation. Milton.

MISREPRESENTATION
Mis*rep`re*sen*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Untrue representation; false or incorrect statement or account;
-- usually unfavorable to the thing represented; as, a
misrepresentation of a person's motives. Sydney Smith.

Note: In popular use, this word often conveys the idea of intentional
untruth.

MISREPRESENTATIVE
Mis*rep`re*sent"a*tive, a.

Defn: Tending to convey a wrong impression; misrepresenting.

MISREPRESENTER
Mis*rep`re*sent"er, n.

Defn: One who misrepresents.

MISREPUTE
Mis`re*pute", v. t.

Defn: To have in wrong estimation; to repute or estimate erroneously.

MISRULE
Mis*rule", v. t. & i.

Defn: To rule badly; to misgovern.

MISRULE
Mis*rule", n.

1. The act, or the result, of misruling.

2. Disorder; confusion; tumult from insubordination.
Enormous riot and misrule surveyed. Pope.
Abbot, or Lord, of Misrule. See under Abbot, and Lord.

MISRULY
Mis*rul"y, a.

Defn: Unruly. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

MISS
Miss, n.; pl. Misses. Etym: [Contr. fr. mistress.]

1. A title of courtesy prefixed to the name of a girl or a woman who
has not been married. See Mistress, 5.

Note: There is diversity of usage in the application of this title to
two or more persons of the same name. We may write either the Miss
Browns or the Misses Brown.

2. A young unmarried woman or a girl; as, she is a miss of sixteen.
Gay vanity, with smiles and kisses, Was busy 'mongst the maids and
misses. Cawthorn.

3. A kept mistress. See Mistress, 4. [Obs.] Evelyn.

4. (Card Playing)

Defn: In the game of three-card loo, an extra hand, dealt on the
table, which may be substituted for the hand dealt to a player.

MISS
Miss, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Missed; p.pr. & vb.n. Missing.] Etym: [AS.
missan; akin to D. & G. missen, OHG. missan, Icel. missa, Sw. mista,
Dan. miste. *100. See Mis-, pref.]

1. To fail of hitting, reaching, getting, finding, seeing, hearing,
etc.; as, to miss the mark one shoots at; to miss the train by being
late; to miss opportunites of getting knowledge; to miss the point or
meaning of something said.
When a man misses his great end, happiness, he will acknowledge he
judged not right. Locke.

2. To omit; to fail to have or to do; to get without; to dispense
with; -- now seldom applied to persons.
She would never miss, one day, A walk so fine, a sight so gay. Prior.
We cannot miss him; he does make our fire, Fetch in our wood. Shak.

3. To discover the absence or omission of; to feel the want of; to
mourn the loss of; to want. Shak.
Neither missed we anything ... Nothing was missed of all that
pertained unto him. 1 Sam. xxv. 15, 21.
What by me thou hast lost, thou least shalt miss. Milton.
To miss stays. (Naut.) See under Stay.

MISS
Miss, v. i.

1. To fail to hit; to fly wide; to deviate from the true direction.
Men observe when things hit, and not when they miss. Bacon.
Flying bullets now, To execute his rage, appear too slow; They miss,
or sweep but common souls away. Waller.

2. To fail to obtain, learn, or find; -- with of.
Upon the least reflection, we can not miss of them. Atterbury.

3. To go wrong; to err. [Obs.]
Amongst the angels, a whole legion Of wicked sprites did fall from
happy bliss; What wonder then if one, of women all, did miss Spenser.

4. To be absent, deficient, or wanting. [Obs.] See Missing, a.
What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend. Shak.

MISS
Miss, n.

1. The act of missing; failure to hit, reach, find, obtain, etc.

2. Loss; want; felt absence. [Obs.]
There will be no great miss of those which are lost. Locke.

3. Mistake; error; fault. Shak.
He did without any great miss in the hardest points of grammar.
Ascham.

4. Harm from mistake. [Obs.] Spenser.

MISSA
Mis"sa, n.; pl. Missæ. Etym: [LL. See 1st Mass.] (R.C.Ch.)

Defn: The service or sacrifice of the Mass.

MISSAL
Mis"sal, n. Etym: [LL. missale, liber missalis, from missa mass: cf.
F. missel. See 1st Mass.]

Defn: The book containing the service of the Mass for the entire
year; a Mass book.

MISSAL
Mis"sal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Mass, or to a missal or Mass book. Bp.
Hall.

MISSAY
Mis*say", v. t.

1. To say wrongly.

2. To speak evil of; to slander. [Obs.]

MISSAY
Mis*say", v. i.

Defn: To speak ill. [Obs.] Spenser.

MISSEEK
Mis*seek", v. t.

Defn: To seek for wrongly. [Obs.]

MISSEEM
Mis*seem", v. i.

1. To make a false appearance. [Obs.]

2. To misbecome; to be misbecoming. [Obs.] Spenser.

MISSEL
Mis"sel, n.

Defn: Mistletoe. [Obs.] Missel bird, Missel thrush (Zoöl.), a large
European thrush (Turdus viscivorus) which feeds on the berries of the
mistletoe; -- called also mistletoe thrush and missel.

MISSELDINE
Mis"sel*dine, n. Etym: [See Mistletoe.] [Written also misselden.]

Defn: The mistletoe. [Obs.] Baret.

MISSELTOE
Mis"sel*toe, n.

Defn: See Mistletoe.

MISSEMBLANCE
Mis*sem"blance, n.

Defn: False resemblance or semblance. [Obs.]

MISSEND
Mis*send", v. t.

Defn: To send amiss or incorrectly.

MISSERVE
Mis*serve", v. t. & i.

Defn: To serve unfaithfully.

MISSET
Mis*set", v. t.

Defn: To set pr place wrongly.

MISSHAPE
Mis*shape", v. t.

Defn: To shape ill; to give an ill or unnatural from to; to deform.
"Figures monstrous and misshaped." Pope.

MISSHAPEN
Mis*shap"en, a.

Defn: Having a bad or ugly form. "The mountains are misshapen."
Bentley.
 -- Mis*shap"en*ly, adv.
 -- Mis*shap"en*ness, n.

MISSHEATHED
Mis*sheathed", a.

Defn: Sheathed by mistake; wrongly sheathed; sheathed in a wrong
place. Shak.

MISSIFICATE
Mis*sif"i*cate, v. i. Etym: [LL. missa Mass + -ficare (in comp.) to
make. See fy-.]

Defn: To perform Mass. [Obs.] Milton.

MISSILE
Mis"sile, a. Etym: [L. missils, fr. mittere, missum, to cause to go,
to send, to throw; cf. Lith. mesti to throw: cf. F. missile. Cf.
Admit, Dismiss, Mass the religious service, Message, Mission.]

Defn: Capable of being thrown; adapted for hurling or to be projected
from the hand, or from any instrument or rngine, so as to strike an
object at a distance.
We bend the bow, or wing the missile dart. Pope.

MISSILE
Mis"sile, n. Etym: [L. missile.]

Defn: A weapon thrown or projected or intended to be projcted, as a
lance, an arrow, or a bullet.

MISSING
Miss"ing, a. Etym: [From Miss, v. i.]

Defn: Absent from the place where it was expected to be found; lost;
wanting; not present when called or looked for.
Neither was there aught missing unto them. 1 Sam. xxv. 7.
For a time caught up to God, as once Moses was in the mount, and
missing long. Milton.

MISSINGLY
Miss"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With a sense of loss. [Obs.] Shak.

MISSION
Mis"sion, n. Etym: [L. missio, fr. mittere, missum, to send: cf. F.
mission. See Missile.]

1. The act of sending, or the state of being sent; a being sent or
delegated by authority, with certain powers for transacting business;
comission.
Whose glorious deeds, but in these fields of late, Made emulous
missions' mongst the gods themselves. Shak.

2. That with which a messenger or agent is charged; an errand;
business or duty on which one is sent; a commission.
How to begin, how to accomplish best His end of being on earth, and
mission high. Milton.

3. Persons sent; any number of persons appointed to perform any
service; a delegation; an embassy.
In these ships there should be a mission of three of the fellows or
brethren of Solomon's house. Bacon.

4. An assotiation or organization of missionaries; a station or
residence of missionaries.

5. An organization for worship and work, dependent on one or more
churches.

6. A course of extraordinary sermons and services at a particular
place and time for the special purpose of quickening the faith and
zeal participants, and of converting unbelievers. Addis & Arnold.

7. Dismission; discharge from service. [Obs.] Mission school. (a) A
school connected with a mission and conducted by missionaries. (b) A
school for the religious instruction of children not having regular
church privileges.

Syn.
 -- Message; errand; commission; deputation.

MISSION
Mis"sion, v. t.

Defn: To send on a mission. [Mostly used in the form of the past
participle.] Keats.

MISSIONARY
Mis"sion*ary, n.; pl. Missionaries. Etym: [Cf. F. missionnaire. See
Mission, n.]

Defn: One who is sent on a mission; especially, one sent to propagate
religion. Swift. Missionary apostolic, a Roman Catholic missionary
sent by commission from the pope.

MISSIONARY
Mis"sion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to missions; as, a missionary meeting; a
missionary fund.

MISSIONER
Mis"sion*er, n.

Defn: A missionary; an envoy; one who conducts a mission. See
Mission, n., 6. "Like mighty missioner you come." Dryden.

MISSIS
Mis"sis, n.

Defn: A mistress; a wife; -- so used by the illiterate. G. Eliot.

MISSISH
Miss"ish, a.

Defn: Like a miss; prim; affected; sentimental.
 -- Miss"ish*ness, n.

MISSIT
Mis*sit", v. t.

Defn: To sit badly or imperfectly upon; to misbecome. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MISSIVE
Mis"sive, a. Etym: [See Missive, n.]

1. Specially sent; intended or prepared to be sent; as, a letter
missive. Ayliffe.

2. Missile. "The missive weapons fly." Dryden. Letters missive,
letters conveying the permission, comand, or advice of a superior
authority, as a sovereign. They are addressed and sent to some
certain person or persons, and are distinguished from letters patent,
which are addressed to the public.

MISSIVE
Mis"sive, n. Etym: [F. lettre missive. See Mission, n.]

1. That which is sent; a writing containing a message.

2. One who is sent; a messenger. [Obs.] Shak.

MISSOUND
Mis*sound", v. t.

Defn: To sound wrongly; to utter or pronounce incorrectly. E,Hall.

MISSPEAK
Mis*speak", v. i.

Defn: To err in speaking.

MISSPEAK
Mis*speak", v. t.

Defn: To utter wrongly.

MISSPEECH
Mis*speech", n.

Defn: Wrong speech. [Obs.]

MISSPELL
Mis*spell", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Misspelled, or Misspelt (; p. pr. &
vb. n. Misspelling.]

Defn: To spell incorrectly.

MISSPELLING
Mis*spell"ing, n.

Defn: A wrong spelling.

MISSPEND
Mis*spend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Misspent; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misspending.]

Defn: To spend amiss or for wrong purposes; to aquander; to waste;
as, to misspend time or money. J. Philips.

MISSPENDER
Mis*spend"er, n.

Defn: One who misspends.

MISSPENSE
mis*spense", n.

Defn: A spending improperly; a wasting. [Obs.] Barrow.

MISSPENT
Mis*spent", imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Misspend.

MISSTATE
Mis*state", v. t.

Defn: To state wrongly; as, to misstate a question in debate. Bp.
Sanderson.

MISSTATEMENT
Mis*state"ment, n.

Defn: An incorrect statement.

MISSTAYED
Mis*stayed", a. (Naut.)

Defn: Having missed stays; -- said of a ship.

MISSTEP
Mis*step", n.

Defn: A wrong step; an error of conduct.

MISSTEP
Mis*step", v. i.

Defn: To take a wrong step; to go astray.

MISSUCCESS
Mis`suc*cess", n.

Defn: Failure. [Obs.]

MISSUGGESTION
Mis`sug*ges"tion ( or ), n.

Defn: Wrong or evil suggestion. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

MISSUMMATION
Mis`sum*ma"tion, n.

Defn: Wrong summation.

MISSWEAR
Mis*swear", v. i.

Defn: To swear falsely.

MISSY
Mis"sy, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Misy.

MISSY
Mis"sy, n.

Defn: An affectionate, or contemptuous, form of miss; a young girl; a
miss.
 -- a.

Defn: Like a miss, or girl.

MIST
Mist, n. Etym: [AS. mist; akin to D. & Sw. mist, Icel. mistr, G. mist
dung, Goth. maíhstus, AS. migan to make water, Icel. miga, Lith.
migla mist, Russ. mgla, L. mingere, meiere, to make water, gr. mih to
make water, n., a mist m*gha cloud. *102. Cf. Misle, Mizzle, Mixen.]

1. Visible watery vapor suspended in the atmosphere, at or near the
surface of the earth; fog.

2. Coarse, watery vapor, floating or falling in visible particles,
approaching the form of rain; as, Scotch mist.

3. Hence, anything which dims or darkens, and obscures or intercepts
vision.
His passion cast a mist before his sense. Dryden.
Mist flower (Bot.), a composite plant (Eupatorium coelestinum),
having heart-shaped leaves, and corymbs of lavender-blue flowers. It
is found in the Western and Southern United States.

MIST
Mist, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Misted; p. pr. & vb. n. Misting.]

Defn: To cloud; to cover with mist; to dim. Shak.

MIST
Mist, v. i.

Defn: To rain in very fine drops; as, it mists.

MISTAKABLE
Mis*tak"a*ble, a.

Defn: Liable to be mistaken; capable of being misconceived. Sir T.
Browne.

MISTAKE
Mis*take", v. t. [imp. & obs. p. p. Mistook; p. p. Mistaken; p. pr. &
vb. n. Mistaking.] Etym: [Pref. mis- + take: cf. Icel. mistaka.]

1. To take or choose wrongly. [Obs. or R.] Shak.

2. To take in a wrong sense; to misunderstand misapprehend, or
misconceive; as, to mistake a remark; to mistake one's meaning.
Locke.
My father's purposes have been mistook. Shak.

3. To substitute in thought or perception; as, to mistake one person
for another.
A man may mistake the love of virtue for the practice of it. Johnson.

4. To have a wrong idea of in respect of character, qualities, etc.;
to misjudge.
Mistake me not so much, To think my poverty is treacherous. Shak.

MISTAKE
Mis*take", v. i.

Defn: To err in knowledge, perception, opinion, or judgment; to
commit an unintentional error.
Servants mistake, and sometimes occasion misunderstanding among
friends. Swift.

MISTAKE
Mis*take", n.

1. An apprehending wrongly; a misconception; a misunderstanding; a
fault in opinion or judgment; an unintentional error of conduct.
Infallibility is an absolute security of the understanding from all
possibility of mistake. Tillotson.

2. (Law)

Defn: Misconception, error, which when non-negligent may be ground
for rescinding a contract, or for refusing to perform it. No mistake,
surely; without fail; as, it will happen at the appointed time, and
no mistake. [Low]

Syn.
 -- Blunder; error; bull. See Blunder.

MISTAKEN
Mis*tak"en, p.a.

1. Being in error; judging wrongly; having a wrong opinion or a
misconception; as, a mistaken man; he is mistaken.

2. Erroneous; wrong; as, a mistaken notion.

MISTAKENLY
Mis*tak"en*ly, adv.

Defn: By mistake. Goldsmith.

MISTAKENNESS
Mis*tak"en*ness, n.

Defn: Erroneousness.

MISTAKER
Mis*tak"er, n.

Defn: One who mistakes.
Well meaning ignorance of some mistakers. Bp. Hall.

MISTAKING
Mis*tak"ing, n.

Defn: An error; a mistake. Shak.

MISTAKINGLY
Mis*tak"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: Erroneously.

MISTAUGHT
Mis*taught", a. Etym: [See Misteach.]

Defn: Wrongly taught; as, a mistaught youth. L'Estrange.

MISTEACH
Mis*teach", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mistaught; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misteaching.] Etym: [AS. mist.]

Defn: To teach wrongly; to instruct erroneously.

MISTELL
Mis*tell", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mistold; p. pr. & vb. n. Mistelling.]

Defn: To tell erroneously.

MISTEMPER
Mis*tem"per, v. t.

Defn: To temper ill; to disorder; as, to mistemper one's head.
Warner.
This inundation of mistempered humor. Shak.

MISTER
Mis"ter, n. Etym: [See Master, and cf. Mistress.]

Defn: A title of courtesy prefixed to the name of a man or youth. It
is usually written in the abbreviated form Mr.
To call your name, inquire your where, Or whet you think of Mister
Some-one's book, Or Mister Other's marriage or decease. Mrs.
Browning.

MISTER
Mis"ter, v. t.

Defn: To address or mention by the title Mr.; as, he mistered me in a
formal way. [Colloq.]

MISTER
Mis"ter, n. Etym: [OF. mistier trade, office, ministry, need, F.
métier trade, fr. L. ministerium service, office, ministry. See
Ministry, Mystery trade.] [Written also mester.]

1. A trade, art, or occupation. [Obs.]
In youth he learned had a good mester. Chaucer.

2. Manner; kind; sort. [Obs.] Spenser.
But telleth me what mester men ye be. Chaucer.

3. Need; necessity. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

MISTER
Mis"ter, v. i.

Defn: To be needful or of use. [Obs.]
As for my name, it mistereth not to tell. Spenser.

MISTERM
Mis*term", v. t.

Defn: To call by a wrong name; to miscall.

MISTERY
Mis"ter*y, n.

Defn: See Mystery, a trade.

MISTFUL
Mist"ful, a.

Defn: Clouded with, or as with, mist.

MISTHINK
Mis*think", v. i. Etym: [See Think.]

Defn: To think wrongly. [Obs.] "Adam misthought of her." Milton.

MISTHINK
Mis*think", v. t.

Defn: To have erroneous thoughts or judgment of; to think ill of.
[Obs.] Shak.

MISTHOUGHT
Mis*thought", n.

Defn: Erroneous thought; mistaken opinion; error. [Obs.] Spenser.

MISTHRIVE
Mis*thrive", v. i.

Defn: To thrive poorly; to be not thrifty or prosperous. [Obs.]

MISTHROW
Mis*throw", v. t.

Defn: To throw wrongly.

MISTIC; MISTICO
Mis"tic, Mis"ti*co, n. Etym: [Sp. místico.]

Defn: A kind of small sailing vessel used in the Mediterranean. It is
rigged partly like a xebec, and partly like a felucca.

MISTIDE
Mis*tide", v. i. Etym: [AS. mistidan. See Tide.]

Defn: To happen or come to pass unfortunately; also, to suffer evil
fortune. [Obs.]

MISTIGRIS; MISTIGRI
Mis`ti`gris", Mis`ti`gri", n. Etym: [F. mistigri.]

Defn: A variety of the game of poker in which the joker is used, and
called mistigris or mistigri.

MISTIHEAD
Mist"i*head, n.

Defn: Mistiness. [Obs.]

MISTILY
Mist"i*ly, adv.

Defn: With mist; darkly; obscurely.

MISTIME
Mis*time", v. t. Etym: [AS. mistimain to turn out ill.]

Defn: To time wrongly; not to adapt to the time.

MISTINESS
Mist"i*ness, n.

Defn: State of being misty.

MISTION
Mis"tion, n. Etym: [L. mistio, mixtio. See Mix, and cf. Mixtion.]

Defn: Mixture. [Obs.]

MISTITLE
Mis*ti"tle, v. t.

Defn: To call by a wrong title.

MISTLE
Mis"tle, v. i. Etym: [Eng. mist. See Misle, and Mizzle.]

Defn: To fall in very fine drops, as rain.

MISTLETOE
Mis"tle*toe, n. Etym: [AS. misteltan; mistel mistletoe + tan twig.
AS. mistel is akin of D., G., Dan. & Sw. mistel, OHG. mistil, Icel.
mistilteinn; and AS. tan to D. teen, OHG. zein, Icel. teinn, Goth.
tains. Cf. Missel.] (Bot.)

Defn: A parasitic evergreen plant of Europe (Viscum album), bearing a
glutinous fruit. When found upon the oak, where it is rare, it was an
object of superstitious regard among the Druids. A bird lime is
prepared from its fruit. [Written also misletoe, misseltoe, and
mistleto.] Lindley. Loudon.

Note: The mistletoe of the United States is Phoradendron flavescens,
having broader leaves than the European kind. In different regions
various similar plants are called by this name.

MISTONUSK
Mis"to*nusk, n. Etym: [From the Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American badger.

MISTOOK
Mis*took", imp. & obs. p. p.

Defn: of Mistake.

MISTRADITION
Mis`tra*di"tion, n.

Defn: A wrong tradition. "Monsters of mistradition." Tennyson.

MISTRAIN
Mis*train", v. t.

Defn: To train amiss.

MISTRAL
Mis"tral, n. Etym: [F., fr. Provençal.]

Defn: A violent and cold northwest wind experienced in the
Mediterranean provinces of France, etc.

MISTRANSLATE
Mis`trans*late", v. t.

Defn: To translate erroneously.

MISTRANSLATION
Mis`trans*la"tion, n.

Defn: Wrong translation.

MISTRANSPORT
Mis`trans*port", v. t.

Defn: To carry away or mislead wrongfully, as by passion. [Obs.] Bp.
Hall.

MISTREADING
Mis*tread"ing, n.

Defn: Misstep; misbehavior. "To punish my mistreadings." Shak.

MISTREAT
Mis*treat", v. t.

Defn: To treat amiss; to abuse.

MISTREATMENT
Mis*treat"ment, n.

Defn: Wrong treatment.

MISTRESS
Mis"tress, n. Etym: [OE. maistress, OF. maistresse, F. maîtresse, LL.
magistrissa, for L. magistra, fem. of magister. See Master, Mister,
and cf. Miss a young woman.]

1. A woman having power, authority, or ownership; a woman who
exercises authority, is chief, etc.; the female head of a family, a
school, etc.
The late queen's gentlewoman! a knight's daughter! To be her
mistress' mistress! Shak.

2. A woman well skilled in anything, or having the mastery over it.
A letter desires all young wives to make themselves mistresses of
Wingate's Arithmetic. Addison.

3. A woman regarded with love and devotion; she who has command over
one's heart; a beloved object; a sweetheart. [Poetic] Clarendon.

4. A woman filling the place, but without the rights, of a wife; a
concubine; a loose woman with whom one consorts habitually.
Spectator.

5. A title of courtesy formerly prefixed to the name of a woman,
married or unmarried, but now superseded by the contracted forms,
Mrs., for a married, and Miss, for an unmarried, woman.
Now Mistress Gilpin (careful soul). Cowper.

6. A married woman; a wife. [Scot.]
Several of the neighboring mistresses had assembled to witness the
event of this memorable evening. Sir W. Scott.

7. The old name of the jack at bowls. Beau. & Fl. To be one's own
mistress, to be exempt from control by another person.

MISTRESS
Mis"tress, v. i.

Defn: To wait upon a mistress; to be courting. [Obs.] Donne.

MISTRESSSHIP
Mis"tress*ship, n.

1. Female rule or dominion.

2. Ladyship, a style of address; -- with the personal pronoun. [Obs.]
Massinger.

MISTRIAL
Mis*tri"al, n. (Law)

Defn: A false or erroneous trial; a trial which has no result.

MISTRIST
Mis*trist", v. t.

Defn: To mistrust. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MISTROW
Mis*trow", v. i.

Defn: To think wrongly. [Obs.]

MISTRUST
Mis*trust", n.

Defn: Want of confidence or trust; suspicion; distrust. Milton.

MISTRUST
Mis*trust", v. t.

1. To regard with jealousy or suspicion; to suspect; to doubt the
integrity of; to distrust.
I will never mistrust my wife again. Shak.

2. To forebode as near, or likely to occur; to surmise.
By a divine instinct, men's minds mistrust Ensuing dangers. Shak.

MISTRUSTER
Mis*trust"er, n.

Defn: One who mistrusts.

MISTRUSTFUL
Mis*trust"ful, a.

Defn: Having or causing mistrust, suspicions, or forebodings.
Their light blown out in some mistrustful wood. Shak.
-- Mis*trust"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Mis*trust"ful*ness, n.

MISTRUSTINGLY
Mis*trust"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With distrust or suspicion.

MISTRUSTLESS
Mis*trust"less, a.

Defn: Having no mistrust or suspicion.
The swain mistrustless of his smutted face. Goldsmith.

MISTUNE
Mis*tune", v. t.

Defn: To tune wrongly.

MISTURA
Mis*tu"ra, n. Etym: [L. See Mixture.] (Med.)
(a) A mingled compound in which different ingredients are contained
in a liquid state; a mixture. See Mixture, n., 4.
(b) Sometimes, a liquid medicine containing very active substances,
and which can only be administered by drops. Dunglison.

MISTURN
Mis*turn", v. t.

Defn: To turn amiss; to pervert.

MISTUTOR
Mis*tu"tor, v. t.

Defn: To instruct amiss.

MISTY
Mist"y, a. [Compar. Mistier; superl. Mistiest.] Etym: [AS. mistig.
See Mist. In some senses misty has been confused with mystic.]

1. Accompained with mist; characterized by the presence of mist;
obscured by, or overspread with, mist; as, misty weather; misty
mountains; a misty atmosphere.

2. Obscured as if by mist; dim; obscure; clouded; as, misty sight.
The more I muse therein [theology], The mistier it seemeth. Piers
Plowman.

MISUNDERSTAND
Mis*un`der*stand", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Misunderstood; p. pr. & vb. n.
Misunderstanding.]

Defn: To misconceive; to mistake; to miscomprehend; to take in a
wrong sense.

MISUNDERSTANDER
Mis*un`der*stand"er, n.

Defn: One who misunderstands. Sir T. More.

MISUNDERSTANDING
Mis*un`der*stand"ing, n.

1. Mistake of the meaning; error; misconception. Bacon.

2. Disagreement; difference of opinion; dissension; quarrel.
"Misunderstandings among friends." Swift.

MISURATO
Mi`su*ra"to, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Measured; -- a direction to perform a passage in strict or
measured time.

MISUSAGE
Mis*us"age, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mésusage.]

Defn: Bad treatment; abuse. Spenser.

MISUSE
Mis*use", v. t. Etym: [F. mésuser. See Mis-, prefix from French, and
Use.]

1. To treat or use improperly; to use to a bad purpose; to misapply;
as, to misuse one's talents. South.
The sweet poison of misused wine. Milton.

2. To abuse; to treat ill.
O, she misused me past the endurance of a block. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To maltreat; abuse; misemploy; misapply.

MISUSE
Mis*use", n.

1. Wrong use; misapplication; erroneous or improper use.
Words little suspected for any such misuse. Locke.

2. Violence, or its effects. [Obs.] Shak.

MISUSEMENT
Mis*use"ment, n.

Defn: Misuse. [Obs.]

MISUSER
Mis*us"er, n.

1. One who misuses. "Wretched misusers of language." Coleridge.

2. (Law)

Defn: Unlawful use of a right; use in excess of, or varying from,
one's right. Bouvier.

MISVALUE
Mis*val"ue, v. t.

Defn: To value wrongly or too little; to undervalue.
But for I am so young, I dread my work Wot be misvalued both of old
and young. W. Browne.

MISVOUCH
Mis*vouch", v. t.

Defn: To vouch falsely.

MISWANDER
Mis*wan"der, v. i.

Defn: To wander in a wrong path; to stray; to go astray. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

MISWAY
Mis*way", n.

Defn: A wrong way. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MISWEAR
Mis*wear", v. t.

Defn: To wear ill. [Obs.] Bacon.

MISWED
Mis*wed", v. t.

Defn: To wed improperly.

MISWEEN
Mis*ween", v. i.

Defn: To ween amiss; to misjudge; to distrust; to be mistaken. [Obs.]
Spenser.

MISWEND
Mis*wend", v. i.

Defn: To go wrong; to go astray. [Obs.] "The world is miswent."
Gower.

MISWORD
Mis*word", v. t.

Defn: To word wrongly; as, to misword a message, or a sentence.

MISWORD
Mis*word", n.

Defn: A word wrongly spoken; a cross word. [Obs.] Sylvester. Breton.

MISWORSHIP
Mis*wor"ship, n.

Defn: Wrong or false worship; mistaken practices in religion. Bp.
Hall.
Such hideous jungle of misworships. Carlyle.

MISWORSHIP
Mis*wor"ship, v. t.

Defn: To worship wrongly. Bp. Hall.

MISWORSHIPER
Mis*wor"ship*er, n.

Defn: One who worships wrongly.

MISWRITE
Mis*write", v. t.

Defn: To write incorrectly.

MISWROUGHT
Mis*wrought", a.

Defn: Badly wrought. Bacon.

MISY
Mi"sy, n. Etym: [Cf. L. misy a mineral, perh. copperas, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: An impure yellow sulphate of iron; yellow copperas or
copiapite.

MISYOKE
Mis*yoke", v. t.

Defn: To yoke improperly.

MISZEALOUS
Mis*zeal"ous, a.

Defn: Mistakenly zealous. [Obs.]

MITE
Mite, n. Etym: [AS. mite mite (in sense 1); akin to LG. mite, D.
mijt, G. miete, OHG. miza; cf. Goth. maitan to cut.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A minute arachnid, of the order Acarina, of which there are
many species; as, the cheese mite, sugar mite, harvest mite, etc. See
Acarina.

2. Etym: [D. mijt; prob. the same word.]

Defn: A small coin formerly circulated in England, rated at about a
third of a farthing. The name is also applied to a small coin used in
Palestine in the time of Christ.
Two mites, which make a farthing. Mark xii. 49.

3. A small weight; one twentieth of a grain.

4. Anything very small; a minute object; a very little quantity or
particle.
For in effect they be not worth a myte. Chaucer.

MITER; MITRE
Mi"ter, Mi"tre, n. Etym: [F. mitre, fr. L. mitra headband, turban,
Gr.

1. A covering for the head, worn on solemn occasions by church
dignitaries. It has been made in many forms, the present form being a
lofty cap with two points or peaks. Fairholt.

2. The surface forming the beveled end or edge of a piece where a
miter joint is made; also, a joint formed or a junction effected by
two beveled ends or edges; a miter joint.

3. (Numis.)

Defn: A sort of base money or coin. Miter box (Carp. & Print.), an
apparatus for guiding a handsaw at the proper angle in making a miter
joint; esp., a wooden or metal trough with vertical kerfs in its
upright sides, for guides.
 -- Miter dovetail (Carp.), a kind of dovetail for a miter joint in
which there is only one joint line visible, and that at the angle.
 -- Miter gauge (Carp.), a gauge for determining the angle of a
miter.
 -- Miter joint, a joint formed by pieces matched and united upon a
line bisecting the angle of junction, as by the beveled ends of two
pieces of molding or brass rule, etc. The term is used especially
when the pieces form a right angle. See Miter, 2.
 -- Miter shell (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of marine
univalve shells of the genus Mitra.
 -- Miter square (Carp.), a bevel with an immovable arm at an angle
of 45º, for striking lines on stuff to be mitered; also, a square
with an arm adjustable to any angle.
 -- Miter wheels, a pair of bevel gears, of equal diameter, adapted
for working together, usually with their axes at right angles.

MITER; MITRE
Mi"ter, Mi"tre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mitered or Mitred; p. pr. & vb.
n. Mitering or Mitring.]

1. To place a miter upon; to adorn with a miter. "Mitered locks."
Milton.

2. To match together, as two pieces of molding or brass rule on a
line bisecting the angle of junction; to bevel the ends or edges of,
for the purpose of matching together at an angle.

MITER; MITRE
Mi"ter, Mi"tre, v. i.

Defn: To meet and match together, as two pieces of molding, on a line
bisecting the angle of junction.

MITERWORT
Mi"ter*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Mitella, -- slender, perennial herbs
with a pod slightly resembling a bishop's miter; bishop's cap. False
miterwort, a white-flowered perennial herb of the United States
(Tiarella cardifolia).

MITHIC
Mith"ic, a.

Defn: See Mythic.

MITHRAS
Mi"thras, n. Etym: [L., from Gr.

Defn: The sun god of the Persians.

MITHRIDATE
Mith"ri*date, n. (Med.)

Defn: An antidote against poison, or a composition in form of an
electuary, supposed to serve either as a remedy or a preservative
against poison; an alexipharmic; -- so called from King Mithridates,
its reputed inventor.
[Love is] a drop of the true elixir; no mithridate so effectual
against the infection of vice. Southey.

MITHRIDATIC
Mith`ri*dat"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to King Mithridates, or to a mithridate.

MITIGABLE
Mit"i*ga*ble, a.

Defn: Admitting of mitigation; that may be mitigated.

MITIGANT
Mit"i*gant, a. Etym: [L. mitigans, p.pr. of mitigare. See Mitigate.]

Defn: Tending to mitigate; mitigating; lentitive. Johnson.

MITIGATE
Mit"i*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mitigated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mitigating.] Etym: [L. mitigatus, p.p. of mitigare to soften,
mitigate; mitis mild, soft + the root of agere to do, drive.]

1. To make less severe, intense, harsh, rigorous, painful, etc.; to
soften; to meliorate; to alleviate; to diminish; to lessen; as, to
mitigate heat or cold; to mitigate grief.

2. To make mild and accessible; to mollify; -- applied to persons.
[Obs.]
This opinion ... mitigated kings into companions. Burke.

Syn.
 -- To alleviate; assuage; allay. See Alleviate.

MITIGATION
Mit`i*ga"tion, n. Etym: [OE. mitigacioun, F. mitigation, fr. L.
mitigatio.]

Defn: The act of mitigating, or the state of being mitigated;
abatement or diminution of anything painful, harsh, severe,
afflictive, or calamitous; as, the mitigation of pain, grief, rigor,
severity, punishment, or penalty.

Syn.
 -- Alleviation; abatement; relief.

MITIGATIVE
Mit"i*ga*tive, a. Etym: [L. mitigativus: cf. F. mitigatif.]

Defn: Tending to mitigate; alleviating.

MITIGATOR
Mit"i*ga`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, mitigates.

MITIGATORY
Mit"i*ga*to*ry, a.

Defn: Tending to mitigate or alleviate; mitigative.

MITING
Mit"ing, n. Etym: [From Mite.]

Defn: A little one; -- used as a term of endearment. [Obs.] Skelton.

MITIS CASTING
Mi"tis cast`ing. [Perh. fr. L. mitis mild.]

Defn: A process, invented by P. Ostberg, for producing malleable iron
castings by melting wrought iron, to which from 0.05 to 0.1 per cent
of aluminium is added to lower the melting point, usually in a
petroleum furnace, keeping the molten metal at the bubbling point
until it becomes quiet, and then pouring the molten metal into a mold
lined with a special mixture consisting essentially of molasses and
ground burnt fire clay; also, a casting made by this process; --
called also wrought-iron casting.

MITIS METAL
Mitis metal.

Defn: The malleable iron produced by mitis casting; -- called also
simply mitis.

MITOME
Mi"tome, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The denser part of the protoplasm of a cell.

MITOSIS
Mi*to"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: See Karyokinesis.

MITOTIC
Mi*tot"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to mitosis; karyokinetic; as, mitotic cell
division; -- opposed to amitotic. --Mi*tot"ic*al*ly (#), adv.

MITRAILLE
Mi`traille", n. Etym: [F. See Mitrailleur.]

Defn: Shot or bits of iron used sometimes in loading cannon.

MITRAILLEUR
Mi`tra`illeur", n. Etym: [F.] (Mil.)

Defn: One who serves a mitrailleuse.

MITRAILLEUSE
Mi`tra`illeuse", n. Etym: [F., fr. mitrailler to fire grapeshot, fr.
mitraille old iron, grapeshot, dim. of OF. mite a mite.] (Mil.)

Defn: A breech-loading machine gun consisting of a number of barrels
fitted together, so arranged that the barrels can be fired
simultaneously, or successively, and rapidly.

MITRAL
Mi"tral, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mitral. See Miter.]

Defn: Pertaining to a miter; resembling a miter; as, the mitral valve
between the left auricle and left ventricle of the heart.

MITRE
Mi"tre, n. & v.

Defn: See Miter.

MITRIFORM
Mit"ri*form, a. Etym: [Miter + -form: cf. F. mitriforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a miter, or a peaked cap; as, a mitriform
calyptra. Gray.

MITT
Mitt, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. mitten.]

Defn: A mitten; also, a covering for the wrist and hand and not for
the fingers.

MITTEN
Mit"ten, n. Etym: [OE. mitaine, meteyn, F. mitaine, perh. of Celtic
origin; cf. Ir. miotog, Gael. miotag, Ir. & Gael. mutan a muff, a
thick glove. Cf. Mitt.]

1. A covering for the hand, worn to defend it from cold or injury. It
differs from a glove in not having a separate sheath for each finger.
Chaucer.

2. A cover for the wrist and forearm. To give the mitten to, to
dismiss as a lover; to reject the suit of. [Colloq.] -- To handle
without mittens, to treat roughly; to handle without gloves.
[Colloq.]

MITTENED
Mit"tened, a.

Defn: Covered with a mitten or mittens. "Mittened hands." Whittier.

MITTENT
Mit"tent, a. Etym: [L. mittens, p.pr. of mittere to send.]

Defn: Sending forth; emitting. [Obs.] Wiseman.

MITTIMUS
Mit"ti*mus, n. Etym: [L., we send, fr. mittere to send.] (Law)
(a) A precept or warrant granted by a justice for committing to
prison a party charged with crime; a warrant of commitment to prison.
Burrill.
(b) A writ for removing records from one court to another. Brande &
C.

MITTLER'S GREEN
Mitt"ler's green`. (Chem.)

Defn: A pigment of a green color, the chief constituent of which is
oxide of chromium.

MITTY
Mit"ty, n.

Defn: The stormy petrel. [Prov. Eng.]

MITU
Mi"tu, n. Etym: [Braz. mitu poranga.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American curassow of the genus Mitua.

MITY
Mit"y, a. Etym: [From Mite.]

Defn: Having, or abounding with, mites.

MIX
Mix, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mixed (less properly Mixt); p. pr. & vb. n.
Mixing.] Etym: [AS. miscan; akin to OHG. misken, G. mischen, Russ.
mieshate, W. mysgu, Gael. measg, L. miscere, mixtum, Gr. miçra mixed.
The English word has been influenced by L. miscere, mixtum (cf.
Mixture), and even the AS. miscan may have been borrowed fr. L.
miscere. Cf. Admix, Mash to bruise, Meddle.]

1. To cause a promiscuous interpenetration of the parts of, as of two
or more substances with each other, or of one substance with others;
to unite or blend into one mass or compound, as by stirring together;
to mingle; to blend; as, to mix flour and salt; to mix wines.
Fair persuasions mixed with sugared words. Shak.

2. To unite with in company; to join; to associate.
Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people. Hos. vii. 8.

3. To form by mingling; to produce by the stirring together of
ingredients; to compound of different parts.
Hast thou no poison mixed Shak.
I have chosen an argument mixed of religious and civil
considerations. Bacon.

MIX
Mix, v. i.

1. To become united into a compound; to be blended promiscuously
together.

2. To associate; to mingle.
He had mixed Again in fancied safety with his kind. Byron.

MIXABLE
Mix"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being mixed.

MIXED
Mixed, a.

Defn: Formed by mixing; united; mingled; blended. See Mix, v. t. & i.
Mixed action (Law), a suit combining the properties of a real and a
personal action.
 -- Mixed angle, a mixtilineal angle.
 -- Mixed fabric, a textile fabric composed of two or more kinds of
fiber, as a poplin.
 -- Mixed marriage, a marriage between persons of different races or
religions; specifically, one between a Roman Catholic and a
Protestant.
 -- Mixed number, a whole number and a fraction taken together.
 -- Mixed train, a railway train containing both passenger and
freight cars.
 -- Mixed voices (Mus.), voices of both males and females united in
the same performance.

MIXEDLY
Mix"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mixed or mingled manner.

MIXEN
Mix"en, n. Etym: [AS. mixen, myxen, fr. meohx, meox, dung, filth;
akin to E. mist. See Mist.]

Defn: A compost heap; a dunghill. Chaucer. Tennyson.

MIXER
Mix"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, mixes.

MIXOGAMOUS
Mix*og"a*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pairing with several males; -- said of certain fishes of which
several males accompany each female during spawning.

MIXOLYDIAN MODE
Mix`o*lyd"i*an mode`. Etym: [Gr. Lydian.] (Mus.)

Defn: The seventh ecclesiastical mode, whose scale commences on G.

MIXTILINEAL; MIXTILINEAR
Mix`ti*lin"e*al, Mix`ti*lin"e*ar, a. Etym: [L. mixtus mixed (p.p. of
miscere to mix) + E. lineal, linear.]

Defn: Containing, or consisting of, lines of different kinds, as
straight, curved, and the like; as, a mixtilinear angle, that is, an
angle contained by a straight line and a curve. [R.]

MIXTION
Mix"tion, n. Etym: [L. mixtio, mistio: cf. F. mixtion. See Mistion,
Mix.]

1. Mixture. [Obs.]

2. A kind of cement made of mastic, amber, etc., used as a mordant
for gold leaf.

MIXTLY
Mixt"ly, adv.

Defn: With mixture; in a mixed manner; mixedly. Bacon.

MIXTURE
Mix"ture, n. Etym: [L. mixtura, fr. miscere, mixtum, to mix: cf. F.
mixture. See Mix.]

1. The act of mixing, or the state of being mixed; as, made by a
mixture of ingredients. Hooker.

2. That which results from mixing different ingredients together; a
compound; as, to drink a mixture of molasses and water; -- also, a
medley.
There is also a mixture of good and evil wisely distributed by God,
to serve the ends of his providence. Atterbury.

3. An ingredient entering into a mixed mass; an additional
ingredient.
Cicero doubts whether it were possible for a community to exist that
had not a prevailing mixture of piety in its constitution. Addison.

4. (Med.)

Defn: A kind of liquid medicine made up of many ingredients; esp., as
opposed to solution, a liquid preparation in which the solid
ingredients are not completely dissolved.

5. (Physics & Chem.)

Defn: A mass of two or more ingredients, the particles of which are
separable, independent, and uncompounded with each other, no matter
how thoroughly and finely commingled; -- contrasted with a compound;
thus, gunpowder is a mechanical mixture of carbon, sulphur, and
niter.

6. (Mus.)

Defn: An organ stop, comprising from two to five ranges of pipes,
used only in combination with the foundation and compound stops; --
called also furniture stop. It consists of high harmonics, or
overtones, of the ground tone.

Syn.
 -- Union; admixture; intermixture; medley.

MIZMAZE
Miz"maze`, n.

Defn: A maze or labyrinth. [Obs.]

MIZZEN
Miz"zen, a. Etym: [It. mezzana, fr. mezzano middle, fr. mezzo middle,
half: cf. F. misaine foresail. See Mezzo.] (Naut.)

Defn: Hindmost; nearest the stern; as, the mizzen shrouds, sails,
etc.

MIZZEN
Miz"zen, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The hindmost of the fore and aft sails of a three-masted
vessel; also, the spanker.

MIZZENMAST
Miz"zen*mast, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The hindmost mast of a three-masted vessel, or of a yawl-rigged
vessel.

MIZZLE
Miz"zle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mizzled; p. pr. & vb. n. Mizzling.]
Etym: [See Misle, and cf. Mistle.]

1. To rain in very fine drops. Spenser.

2. To take one's self off; to go. [Slang]
As long as George the Fourth could reign, he reigned, And then he
mizzled. Epigram, quoted by Wright.

MIZZLE
Miz"zle, n.

Defn: Mist; fine rain.

MIZZY
Miz"zy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. moisi moldy, musty, p.p. of moisir to mold,
fr. L. mucere to be moldy.]

Defn: A bog or quagmire. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

M'-NAUGHT
M'-Naught" (mak*nalt"), v. t. (Steam Engines)

Defn: To increase the power of (a single-cylinder beam engine) by
adding a small high-pressure cylinder with a piston acting on the
beam between the center and the flywheel end, using high-pressure
steam and working as a compound engine, -- a plan introduced by
M'Naught, a Scottish engineer, in 1845.

MNEMONIC; MNEMONICAL
Mne*mon"ic, Mne*mon"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. mind.]

Defn: Assisting in memory.

MNEMONICIAN
Mne`mo*ni"cian, n.

Defn: One who instructs in the art of improving or using the memory.

MNEMONICS
Mne*mon"ics, n. Etym: [Gr. mnémonique.]

Defn: The art of memory; a system of precepts and rules intended to
assist the memory; artificial memory.

MNEMOSYNE
Mne*mos"y*ne, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Mnemonic.] (Class Myth.)

Defn: The goddess of memory and the mother of the Muses.

MNEMOTECHNY
Mne"mo*tech`ny, n. Etym: [Gr. mnémotechnie.]

Defn: Mnemonics.

MO
Mo, a., adv., & n. [Written also moe.] Etym: [AS. ma. See More.]

Defn: More; -- usually, more in number. [Obs.]
An hundred thousand mo. Chaucer.
Likely to find mo to commend than to imitate it. Fuller.

-MO
-mo.

Defn: A suffix added to the names of certain numerals or to the
numerals themselves, to indicate the number of leaves made by folding
a sheet of paper; as, sixteenmo or 16mo; eighteenmo or 18mo. It is
taken from the Latin forms similarly used; as, duodecimo,
sextodecimo, etc. A small circle, placed after the number and near
its top, is often used for -mo; as, 16°, 18°, etc.

MOA
Mo"a, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several very large extinct species of wingless birds
belonging to Dinornis, and other related genera, of the suborder
Dinornithes, found in New Zealand. They are allied to the apteryx and
the ostrich. They were probably exterminated by the natives before
New Zealand was discovered by Europeans. Some species were much
larger than the ostrich.

MOABITE
Mo"ab*ite, n.

Defn: One of the posterity of Moab, the son of Lot. (Gen. xix. 37.)
Also used adjectively.

MOABITESS
Mo"ab*i`tess, n.

Defn: A female Moabite. Ruth i. 22.

MOABITE STONE
Mo"ab*ite stone. (Archæol.)

Defn: A block of black basalt, found at Dibon in Moab by Rev. F. A.
Klein, Aug. 19, 1868, which bears an inscription of thirty-four
lines, dating from the 9th century b. c., and written in the Moabite
alphabet, the oldest Phonician type of the Semitic alphabet. It
records the victories of Mesha, king of Moab, esp. those over Israel
(2 Kings iii. 4, 5, 27).

MOABITISH
Mo"ab*i`tish, a.

Defn: Moabite. Ruth ii. 6.

MOAN
Moan, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Moaned; p. pr. & vb. n. Moaning.] Etym:
[AS. m to moan, also, to mean; but in the latter sense perh. a
different word. Cf. Mean to intend.]

1. To make a low prolonged sound of grief or pain, whether articulate
or not; to groan softly and continuously.
Unpitied and unheard, where misery moans. Thomson.
Let there bechance him pitiful mischances, To make him moan. Shak.

2. To emit a sound like moan; -- said of things inanimate; as, the
wind moans.

MOAN
Moan, v. t.

1. To bewail audibly; to lament.
Ye floods, ye woods, ye echoes, moan My dear Columbo, dead and gone.
Prior.

2. To afflict; to distress. [Obs.]
Which infinitely moans me. Beau. & Fl.

MOAN
Moan, n. Etym: [OE. mone. See Moan, v. i.]

1. A low prolonged sound, articulate or not, indicative of pain or of
grief; a low groan.
Sullen moans, hollow groans. Pope.

2. A low mournful or murmuring sound; -- of things.
Rippling waters made a pleasant moan. Byron.

MOANFUL
Moan"ful, a.

Defn: Full of moaning; expressing sorrow.
 -- Moan"ful*ly, adv.

MOAT
Moat, n. Etym: [OF. mote hill, dike, bank, F. motte clod, turf: cf.
Sp. & Pg. mota bank or mound of earth, It. motta clod, LL. mota,
motta, a hill on which a fort is built, an eminence, a dike, Prov. G.
mott bog earth heaped up; or perh. F. motte, and OF. mote, are from a
LL. p.p. of L. movere to move (see Move). The name of moat, properly
meaning, bank or mound, was transferred to the ditch adjoining: cf.
F. dike and ditch.] (Fort.)

Defn: A deep trench around the rampart of a castle or other fortified
place, sometimes filled with water; a ditch.

MOAT
Moat, v. t.

Defn: To surround with a moat. Dryden.

MOATE
Moate, v. i. Etym: [See Mute to molt.]

Defn: To void the excrement, as a bird; to mute. [Obs.]

MOB
Mob, n. Etym: [See Mobcap.]

Defn: A mobcap. Goldsmith.

MOB
Mob, v. t.

Defn: To wrap up in, or cover with, a cowl. [R.]

MOB
Mob, n. Etym: [L. mobile vulgus, the movable common people. See
Mobile, n.]

1. The lower classes of a community; the populace, or the lowest part
of it.
A cluster of mob were making themselves merry with their betters.
Addison.

2. Hence: A throgn; a rabble; esp., an unlawful or riotous assembly;
a disorderly crowd.
The mob of gentlemen who wrote with ease. Pope.
Had every Athenian citizen been a Socrates, every Athenian assembly
would still have been a mob. Madison.
Confused by brainless mobs. Tennyson.
Mob law, law administered by the mob; lynch law.
 -- Swell mob, well dressed thieves and swindlers, regarded
collectively. [Slang] Dickens.

MOB
Mob, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mobbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mobbing.]

Defn: To crowd about, as a mob, and attack or annoy; as, to mob a
house or a person.

MOBBISH
Mob"bish, a.

Defn: Like a mob; tumultuous; lawless; as, a mobbish act. Bp. Kent.

MOBCAP
Mob"cap`, n. Etym: [D. mop-muts; OD. mop a woman's coif + D. muts
cap.]

Defn: A plain cap or headdress for women or girls; especially, one
tying under the chin by a very broad band, generally of the same
material as the cap itself. Thackeray.

MOBILE
Mo"bile, a. Etym: [L. mobilis, for movibilis, fr. movere to move: cf.
F. mobile. See Move.]

1. Capable of being moved; not fixed in place or condition; movable.
"Fixed or else mobile." Skelton.

2. Characterized by an extreme degree of fluidity; moving or flowing
with great freedom; as, benzine and mercury are mobile liquids; --
opposed to viscous, viscoidal, or oily.

3. Easily moved in feeling, purpose, or direction; excitable;
changeable; fickle. Testament of Love.
The quick and mobile curiosity of her disposition. Hawthorne.

4. Changing in appearance and expression under the influence of the
mind; as, mobile features.

5. (Physiol.)

Defn: Capable of being moved, aroused, or excited; capable of
spontaneous movement.

MOBILE
Mo"bile, n. Etym: [L. mobile vulgus. See Mobile, a., and cf. 3d Mob.]

Defn: The mob; the populace. [Obs.] "The unthinking mobile." South.

MOBILITY
Mo*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. mobilitas: cf. F. mobilité.]

1. The quality or state of being mobile; as, the mobility of a
liquid, of an army, of the populace, of features, of a muscle. Sir T.
Browne.

2. The mob; the lower classes. [Humorous] Dryden.

MOBILIZATION
Mob`i*li*za"tion, n. Etym: [F. mobilization.]

Defn: The act of mobilizing.

MOBILIZE
Mob"i*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mobilized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mobilizing.] Etym: [F. mobiliser.]

Defn: To put in a state of readiness for active service in war, as an
army corps.

MOBLE
Mo"ble, v. t. Etym: [From Mob to wrap up.]

Defn: To wrap the head of in a hood. [Obs.] Shak.

MOBLES
Mo"bles, n. pl.

Defn: See Moebles. [Obs.]

MOBOCRACY
Mob*oc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Mob rabble + -cracy, as in democracy.]

Defn: A condition in which the lower classes of a nation control
public affairs without respect to law, precedents, or vested rights.
It is good name that Dr. Stevens has given to our present situation
(for one can not call it a government), a mobocracy. Walpole.

MOBOCRAT
Mob"o*crat, n.

Defn: One who favors a form of government in which the unintelligent
populace rules without restraint. Bayne.

MOBOCRATIC
Mob`o*crat"ic, a.

Defn: Of, or relating to, a mobocracy.

MOCCASIN
Moc"ca*sin, n. Etym: [An Indian word. Algonquin makisin.] [Sometimes
written moccason.]

1. A shoe made of deerskin, or other soft leather, the sole and upper
part being one piece. It is the customary shoe worn by the American
Indians.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A poisonous snake of the Southern United States. The water
moccasin (Ancistrodon piscivorus) is usually found in or near water.
Above, it is olive brown, barred with black; beneath, it is brownish
yellow, mottled with darker. The upland moccasin is Ancistrodon
atrofuscus. They resemble rattlesnakes, but are without rattles.
Moccasin flower (Bot.), a species of lady's slipper (Cypripedium
acaule) found in North America. The lower petal is two inches long,
and forms a rose-colored moccasin-shaped pouch. It grows in rich
woods under coniferous trees.

MOCCASINED
Moc"ca*sined, a.

Defn: Covered with, or wearing, a moccasin or moccasins. "Moccasined
feet." Harper's Mag.

MOCHA
Mo"cha, n.

1. A seaport town of Arabia, on the Red Sea.

2. A variety of coffee brought from Mocha.

3. An Abyssinian weight, equivalent to a Troy grain. Mocha stone
(Min.), moss agate.

MOCHE
Moche, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A bale of raw silk.

MOCHE
Moche, a.

Defn: Much. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOCHEL
Moch"el, a. & adv.

Defn: Much. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOCHILA
Mo*chi"la, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A large leather flap which covers the saddletree. [Western
U.S.]

MOCK
Mock, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mocked; p. pr. & vb. n. Mocking.] Etym: [F.
moquer, of uncertain origin; cf. OD. mocken to mumble, G. mucken,
OSw. mucka.]

1. To imitate; to mimic; esp., to mimic in sport, contempt, or
derision; to deride by mimicry.
To see the life as lively mocked as ever Still sleep mocked death.
Shak.
Mocking marriage with a dame of France. Shak.

2. To treat with scorn or contempt; to deride.
Elijah mocked them, and said, Cry aloud. 1 Kings xviii. 27.
Let not ambition mock their useful toil. Gray.

3. To disappoint the hopes of; to deceive; to tantalize; as, to mock
expectation.
Thou hast mocked me, and told me lies. Judg. xvi. 13.
He will not ... Mock us with his blest sight, then snatch him hence.
Milton.

Syn.
 -- To deride; ridicule; taunt; jeer; tantalize; disappoint. See
Deride.

MOCK
Mock, v. i.

Defn: To make sport contempt or in jest; to speak in a scornful or
jeering manner.
When thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed Job xi. 3.
She had mocked at his proposal. Froude.

MOCK
Mock, n.

1. An act of ridicule or derision; a scornful or contemptuous act or
speech; a sneer; a jibe; a jeer.
Fools make a mock at sin. Prov. xiv. 9.

2. Imitation; mimicry. [R.] Crashaw.

MOCK
Mock, a.

Defn: Imitating reality, but not real; false; counterfeit; assumed;
sham.
That superior greatness and mock majesty. Spectator.
Mock bishop's weed (Bot.), a genus of slender umbelliferous herbs
(Discopleura) growing in wet places.
 -- Mock heroic, burlesquing the heroic; as, a mock heroic poem.
 -- Mock lead. See Blende (a).
 -- Mock nightingale (Zoöl.), the European blackcap.
 -- Mock orange (Bot.), a genus of American and Asiatic shrubs
(Philadelphus), with showy white flowers in panicled cymes. P.
coronarius, from Asia, has fragrant flowers; the American kinds are
nearly scentless.
 -- Mock sun. See Parhelion.
 -- Mock turtle soup, a soup made of calf's head, veal, or other
meat, and condiments, in imitation of green turtle soup.
 -- Mock velvet, a fabric made in imitation of velvet. See Mockado.

MOCKABLE
Mock"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be mocked. Shak.

MOCKADO
Mock"a*do, n.

Defn: A stuff made in imitation of velvet; -- probably the same as
mock velvet. [Obs.]
Our rich mockado doublet. Ford.

MOCKADOUR
Mock"a*dour, n.

Defn: See Mokadour. [Obs.]

MOCKAGE
Mock"age, n.

Defn: Mockery. [Obs.] Fuller.

MOCKBIRD
Mock"bird`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European sedge warbler (Acrocephalus phragmitis).

MOCKER
Mock"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, mocks; a scorner; a scoffer; a derider.

2. A deceiver; an impostor.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A mocking bird. Mocker nut (Bot.), a kind of hickory (Carya
tomentosa) and its fruit, which is far inferior to the true shagbark
hickory nut.

MOCKERY
Mock"er*y, n.; pl. Mockeries. Etym: [F. moquerie.]

1. The act of mocking, deriding, and exposing to contempt, by
mimicry, by insincere imitation, or by a false show of earnestness; a
counterfeit appearance.
It is, as the air, invulnerable, And our vain blows malicious
mockery. Shak.
Grace at meals is now generally so performed as to look more like a
mockery upon devotion than any solemn application of the mind to God.
Law.
And bear about the mockery of woe. Pope.

2. Insulting or contemptuous action or speech; contemptuous
merriment; derision; ridicule.
The laughingstock of fortune's mockeries. Spenser.

3. Subject of laughter, derision, or sport.
The cruel handling of the city whereof they made a mockery. 2 Macc.
viii. 17.

MOCKING
Mock"ing, a.

Defn: Imitating, esp. in derision, or so as to cause derision;
mimicking; derisive. Mocking bird (Zoöl.), a North American singing
bird (Mimus polyglottos), remarkable for its exact imitations of the
notes of other birds. Its back is gray; the tail and wings are
blackish, with a white patch on each wing; the outer tail feathers
are partly white. The name is also applied to other species of the
same genus, found in Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies.
 -- Mocking thrush (Zoöl.), any species of the genus Harporhynchus,
as the brown thrush (H. rufus).
 -- Mocking wren (Zoöl.), any American wren of the genus Thryothorus,
esp. T. Ludovicianus.

MOCKINGLY
Mock"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of derision; in a contemptuous or mocking manner.

MOCKINGSTOCK
Mock"ing*stock`, n.

Defn: A butt of sport; an object of derision. [R.]

MOCKISH
Mock"ish, a.

Defn: Mock; counterfeit; sham. [Obs.]

MOCKLE
Moc"kle, a.

Defn: See Mickle.

MOCO
Mo"co, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American rodent (Cavia rupestris), allied to the Guinea
pig, but larger; -- called also rock cavy.

MODAL
Mo"dal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. modal. See Mode.]

1. Of or pertaining to a mode or mood; consisting in mode or form
only; relating to form; having the form without the essence or
reality. Glanvill.

2. (Logic & Metaph.)

Defn: Indicating, or pertaining to, some mode of conceiving
existence, or of expressing thought.

MODALIST
Mo"dal*ist, n. (Theol.)

Defn: One who regards Father, Son, and Spirit as modes of being, and
not as persons, thus denying personal distinction in the Trinity.
Eadie.

MODALITY
Mo*dal"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. modalité.]

1. The quality or state of being modal.

2. (Logic & Metaph.)

Defn: A modal relation or quality; a mode or point of view under
which an object presents itself to the mind. According to Kant, the
quality of propositions, as assertory, problematical, or apodeictic.

MODALLY
Mo"dal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a modal manner.
A compound proposition, the parts of which are united modally ... by
the particles "as" and "so." Gibbs.

MODE
Mode, n. Etym: [L. modus a measure, due or proper measure, bound,
manner, form; akin to E. mete: cf. F. mode. See Mete, and cf.
Commodious, Mood in grammar, Modus.]

1. Manner of doing or being; method; form; fashion; custom; way;
style; as, the mode of speaking; the mode of dressing.
The duty of itself being resolved on, the mode of doing it may easily
be found. Jer. Taylor.
A table richly spread in regal mode. Milton.

2. Prevailing popular custom; fashion, especially in the phrase the
mode.
The easy, apathetic graces of a man of the mode. Macaulay.

3. Variety; gradation; degree. Pope.

4. (Metaph.)

Defn: Any combination of qualities or relations, considered apart
from the substance to which they belong, and treated as entities;
more generally, condition, or state of being; manner or form of
arrangement or manifestation; form, as opposed to matter.
Modes I call such complex ideas, which, however compounded, contain
not in them the supposition of subsisting by themselves, but are
considered as dependencies on, or affections of, substances. Locke.

5. (Logic)

Defn: The form in which the proposition connects the predicate and
subject, whether by simple, contingent, or necessary assertion; the
form of the syllogism, as determined by the quantity and quality of
the constituent proposition; mood.

6. (Gram.)

Defn: Same as Mood.

7. (Mus.)

Defn: The scale as affected by the various positions in it of the
minor intervals; as, the Dorian mode, the Ionic mode, etc., of
ancient Greek music.

Note: In modern music, only the major and the minor mode, of whatever
key, are recognized.

8. A kind of silk. See Alamode, n.

Syn.
 -- Method; manner. See Method.

MODEL
Mod"el, n. Etym: [F. modèle, It. modello, fr. (assumed) L. modellus,
fr. modulus a small measure, dim. of modus. See Mode, and cf.
Module.]

1. A miniature representation of a thing, with the several parts in
due proportion; sometimes, a facsimile of the same size.
In charts, in maps, and eke in models made. Gascoigne.
I had my father's signet in my purse, Which was the model of that
Danish seal. Shak.
You have the models of several ancient temples, though the temples
and the gods are perished. Addison.

2. Something intended to serve, or that may serve, as a pattern of
something to be made; a material representation or embodiment of an
ideal; sometimes, a drawing; a plan; as, the clay model of a
sculpture; the inventor's model of a machine.
[The application for a patent] must be accompanied by a full
description of the invention, with drawings and a model where the
case admits of it. Am. Cyc.
When we mean to build We first survey the plot, then draw the model.
Shak.

3. Anything which serves, or may serve, as an example for imitation;
as, a government formed on the model of the American constitution; a
model of eloquence, virtue, or behavior.

4. That by which a thing is to be measured; standard.
He that despairs measures Providence by his own little, contracted
model. South.

5. Any copy, or resemblance, more or less exact.
Thou seest thy wretched brother die, Who was the model of thy
father's life. Shak.

6. A person who poses as a pattern to an artist.
A professional model. H. James.
Working model, a model of a machine which can do on a small scale the
work which the machine itself does, or expected to do.

MODEL
Mod"el, a.

Defn: Suitable to be taken as a model or pattern; as, a model house;
a model husband.

MODEL
Mod"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Modeled or Modelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Modeling or Modelling.] Etym: [Cf. F. modeler, It. modellare.]

Defn: To plan or form after a pattern; to form in model; to form a
model or pattern for; to shape; to mold; to fashion; as, to model a
house or a government; to model an edifice according to the plan
delineated.

MODEL
Mod"el, v. i. (Fine Arts)

Defn: To make a copy or a pattern; to design or imitate forms; as, to
model in wax.

MODELER
Mod"el*er, n.

Defn: One who models; hence, a worker in plastic art. [Written also
modeller.]

MODELING
Mod"el*ing, n. (Fine Arts)

Defn: The act or art of making a model from which a work of art is to
be executed; the formation of a work of art from some plastic
material. Also, in painting, drawing, etc., the expression or
indication of solid form. [Written also modelling.] Modeling plane, a
small plane for planing rounded objects.
 -- Modeling wax, beeswax melted with a little Venice turpentine, or
other resinous material, and tinted with coloring matter, usually
red, -- used in modeling.

MODELIZE
Mod"el*ize, v. t.

Defn: To model. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

MODENA
Mod"e*na, n. Etym: [From Modena, in Italy.]

Defn: A certain crimsonlike color. Good.

MODENESE
Mod`e*nese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Modena or its inhabitants.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Modena; the people of Modena.

MODER
Mo"der, n. Etym: [OE. See Mother female parent.]

1. A mother. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. The principal piece of an astrolabe, into which the others are
fixed. [Obs.]

MODER
Mod"er, v. t.

Defn: To moderate. [Obs.]

MODERABLE
Mod"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. moderabilis.]

Defn: Modeate; temperate. [Obs.]

MODERANCE
Mod"er*ance, n.

Defn: Moderation. [Obs.] Caxton.

MODERATE
Mod"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. moderatus, p.p. of moderate, moderati, to
moderate, regulate, control, fr. modus measure. See Mode.]

Defn: Kept within due bounds; observing reasonable limits; not
excessive, extreme, violent, or rigorous; limited; restrained; as:
(a) Limited in quantity; sparing; temperate; frugal; as, moderate in
eating or drinking; a moderate table.
(b) Limited in degree of activity, energy, or excitement; reasonable;
calm; slow; as, moderate language; moderate endeavors.
(c) Not extreme in opinion, in partisanship, and the like; as, a
moderate Calvinist.
A number of moderate members managed ... to obtain a majority in a
thin house. Swift.

(d) Not violent or rigorous; temperate; mild; gentle; as, a moderate
winter. "Moderate showers." Walter.
(e) Limited as to degree of progress; as, to travel at moderate
speed.
(f) Limited as to the degree in which a quality, principle, or
faculty appears; as, an infusion of moderate strength; a man of
moderate abilities.
(g) Limited in scope or effects; as, a reformation of a moderate
kind. Hooker.

MODERATE
Mod"er*ate, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a party in the Church of Scotland in the 18th century,
and part of the 19th, professing moderation in matters of church
government, in discipline, and in doctrine.

MODERATE
Mod"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Moderated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Moderating.]

1. To restrain from excess of any kind; to reduce from a state of
violence, intensity, or excess; to keep within bounds; to make
temperate; to lessen; to allay; to repress; to temper; to qualify;
as, to moderate rage, action, desires, etc.; to moderate heat or
wind.
By its astringent quality, it moderates the relaxing quality of warm
water. Arbuthnot.
To moderate stiff minds disposed to strive. Spenser.

2. To preside over, direct, or regulate, as a public meeting; as, to
moderate a synod.

MODERATE
Mod"er*ate, v. i.

1. To become less violent, severe, rigorous, or intense; as, the wind
has moderated.

2. To preside as a moderator.
Dr. Barlow [was] engaged ... to moderate for him in the divinity
disputation. Bp. Barlow's Remains (1693).

MODERATELY
Mod"er*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: In a moderate manner or degree; to a moderate extent.
Each nymph but moderately fair. Waller.

MODERATENESS
Mod"er*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being moderate; temperateness;
moderation.

MODERATION
Mod`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. moderatio: cf. F. modération.]

1. The act of moderating, or of imposing due restraint.

2. The state or quality of being mmoderate.
In moderation placing all my glory, While Tories call me Whig, and
Whigs a Tory. Pope.

3. Calmness of mind; equanimity; as, to bear adversity with
moderation.
The calm and judicious moderation of Orange. Motley.

4. pl.

Defn: The first public examinations for degrees at the University of
Oxford; -- usually contracted to mods.

MODERATISM
Mod"er*a*tism, n.

Defn: Moderation in doctrines or opinion, especially in politics or
religion.

MODERATO
Mod`e*ra"to, a. & adv. Etym: [It. See Moderate.] (Mus.)

Defn: With a moderate degree of quickness; moderately. Allegro
moderato, a little slower than allegro.
 -- Andante moderato, a little faster than andante.

MODERATOR
Mod"er*a`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. modérateur.]

1. One who, or that which, moderates, restrains, or pacifies. Sir W.
Raleigh.
Angling was ... a moderator of passions. Walton.

2. The officer who presides over an assembly to preserve order,
propose questions, regulate the proceedings, and declare the votes.

3. In the University of Oxford, an examiner for moderations; at
Cambridge, the superintendant of examinations for degrees; at Dublin,
either the first (senior) or second (junior) in rank in an
examination for the degree of Bachelor of Arts.

4. A mechamical arrangement for regulating motion in a machine, or
producing equality of effect.

MODERATORSHIP
Mod"er*a`tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a moderator.

MODERATRESS
Mod"er*a`tress, n.

Defn: A female moderator. Fuller.

MODERATRIX
Mod"er*a`trix, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A female moderator.

MODERN
Mod"ern, a. Etym: [F. moderne, L. modernus; akin to modo just now,
orig. abl. of modus measure; hence, by measure, just now. See Mode.]

1. Of or pertaining to the present time, or time not long past; late;
not ancient or remote in past time; of recent period; as, modern
days, ages, or time; modern authors; modern fashions; modern taste;
modern practice. Bacon.

2. New and common; trite; commonplace. [Obs.]
We have our philosophical persons, to make modern and familiar,
things supernatural and causeless. Shak.
Modern English. See the Note under English.

MODERN
Mod"ern, n.

Defn: A person of modern times; -- opposed to ancient. Pope.

MODERNISM
Mod"ern*ism, n.

Defn: Modern practice; a thing of recent date; esp., a modern usage
or mode of expression.

MODERNIST
Mod"ern*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. moderniste.]

Defn: One who admires the moderns, or their ways and fashions.

MODERNITY
Mo*der"ni*ty, n.

Defn: Modernness; something modern. Walpole.

MODERNIZATION
Mod`ern*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of rendering modern in style; the act or process of
causing to conform to modern of thinking or acting.

MODERNIZE
Mod"ern*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Modernized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Modernizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. moderniser.]

Defn: To render modern; to adapt to modern person or things; to cause
to conform to recent or present usage or taste. Percy.

MODERNIZER
Mod"ern*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who modernizes.

MODERNLY
Mod"ern*ly, adv.

Defn: In modern times. Milton.

MODERNNESS
Mod"ern*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being modern; recentness; novelty. M.
Arnold.

MODEST
Mod"est, a. Etym: [F. modeste, L. modestus, fr. modus measure. See
Mode.]

1. Restraining within due limits of propriety; not forward, bold,
boastful, or presumptious; rather retiring than pushing one's self
forward; not obstructive; as, a modest youth; a modest man.

2. Observing the proprieties of the sex; not unwomanly in act or
bearing; free from undue familiarity, indecency, or lewdness; decent
in speech and demeanor; -- said of a woman.
Mrs. Ford, the honest woman, the modest wife. Shak.
The blushing beauties of a modest maid. Dryden.

3. Evincing modestly in the actor, author, or speaker; not showing
presumption; not excessive or extreme; moderate; as, a modest
request; modest joy.

Syn.
 -- Reserved; unobtrusive; diffident; bashful; coy; shy; decent;
becoming; chaste; virtuous.

MODESTLY
Mod"est*ly, adv.

Defn: In a modest manner.

MODESTY
Mod"es*ty, n. Etym: [L. modestia: cf. F. modestie. See Modest.]

1. The quality or state of being modest; that lowly temper which
accompanies a moderate estimate of one's own worth and importance;
absence of self-assertion, arrogance, and presumption; humility
respecting one's own merit.

2. Natural delicacy or shame regarding personal charms and the sexual
relation; purity of thought and manners; due regard for propriety in
speech or action.
Her blush is guiltiness, not modesty. Shak.
Modesty piece, a narrow piece of lace worn by women over the bosom.
[Obs.] Addison.

Syn.
 -- Bashfulness; humility; diffidence; shyness. See Bashfulness, and
Humility.

MODICITY
Mo*dic"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. modicitas; cf. F. modicité.]

Defn: Moderateness; smallness; meanness. [Obs.]

MODICUM
Mod"i*cum, n. Etym: [L., fr. modicus moderate, fr. modus. See Mode.]

Defn: A little; a small quantity; a measured simply. "Modicums of
wit." Shak.
Her usual modicum of beer and punch. Thackeray.

MODIFIABILITY
Mod`i*fi`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capability of being modified; state or quality of being
modifiable.

MODIFIABLE
Mod"i*fi`a*ble, a. Etym: [From Modify.]

Defn: Capable of being modified; liable to modification.

MODIFICABLE
Mo*dif"i*ca*ble, a.

Defn: Modifiable. [Obs.]

MODIFICATE
Mod"i*fi*cate, v. t. Etym: [See Modify.]

Defn: To qualify. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.

MODIFICATION
Mod`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. modificatio a measuring: cf. F.
modification. See Modify.]

Defn: The act of modifying, or the state of being modified; a
modified form or condition; state as modified; a change; as, the
modification of an opinion, or of a machine; the various
modifications of light. Bentley.

MODIFICATIVE
Mod"i*fi*ca*tive, n.

Defn: That which modifies or qualifies, as a word or clause.

MODIFICATORY
Mod"i*fi*ca`to*ry, a.

Defn: Tending or serving to modify; modifying. Max Müller.

MODIFIER
Mod"i*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, modifies. Hume.

MODIFY
Mod"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Modified; p. pr. & vb. n. Modifying.]
Etym: [F. modifier, L. modificare, modificari; modus limit + -ficare
(in comp.) to make. See Mode, and -fy.]

1. To change somewhat the form or qualities of; to alter somewhat;
as, to modify a contrivance adapted to some mechanical purpose; to
modify the terms of a contract.

2. To limit or reduce in extent or degree; to moderate; to qualify;
to lower.
Of his grace He modifies his first severe decree. Dryden.

MODILLION
Mo*dil"lion, n. Etym: [F. modillon, It. modiglione. Cf. Module, n.]
(Arch.)

Defn: The enriched block or horizontal bracket generally found under
the cornice of the Corinthian and Composite entablature, and
sometimes, less ornamented, in the Ionic and other orders; -- so
called because of its arrangement at regulated distances.

MODIOLAR
Mo*di"o*lar, a. Etym: [L. modiolus, dim. of modius the Roman corn
measure.]

Defn: Shaped like a bushel measure.

MODIOLUS
Mo*di"o*lus, n.; pl. Modioli. Etym: [L., a small measure.] (Anat.)

Defn: The central column in the osseous cochlea of the ear.

MODISH
Mod"ish, a.

Defn: According to the mode, or customary manner; conformed to the
fashion; fashionable; hence, conventional; as, a modish dress; a
modish feast. Dryden. "Modish forms of address." Barrow.
 -- Mod"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Mod"ish*ness, n.

MODIST
Mod"ist, n.

Defn: One who follows the fashion.

MODISTE
Mo`diste", n. Etym: [F. See Mode, and cf. Modist.]

Defn: A female maker of, or dealer in, articles of fashion,
especially of the fashionable dress of ladies; a woman who gives
direction to the style or mode of dress.

MODIUS
Mo"di*us, n.; pl. Modii. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A dry measure, containing about a peck.

MODOCS
Mo"docs, n. pl.; sing. Modoc (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of warlike Indians formerly inhabiting Northern
California. They are nearly extinct.

MODULAR
Mod"u*lar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to mode, modulation, module, or modius; as,
modular arrangement; modular accent; modular measure.

MODULATE
Mod"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Modulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Modulating.] Etym: [L. modulatus, p.p. of modulari to measure, to
modulate, fr. modulus a small measure, meter, melody, dim. of modus.
See Mode.]

1. To form, as sound, to a certain key, or to a certain portion.

2. To vary or inflect in a natural, customary, or musical manner; as,
the organs of speech modulate the voice in reading or speaking.
Could any person so modulate her voice as to deceive so many Broome.

MODULATE
Mod"u*late, v. i. (Mus.)

Defn: To pass from one key into another.

MODULATION
Mod`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. modulatio: cf. F. modulation.]

1. The act of modulating, or the state of being modulated; as, the
modulation of the voice.

2. Sound modulated; melody. [R.] Thomson.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A change of key, whether transient, or until the music becomes
established in the new key; a shifting of the tonality of a piece, so
that the harmonies all center upon a new keynote or tonic; the art of
transition out of the original key into one nearly related, and so
on, it may be, by successive changes, into a key quite remote. There
are also sudden and unprepared modulations.

MODULATOR
Mod"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who, or that which, modulates. Denham.

MODULE
Mod"ule, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. modulus a small measure, dim. of modus.
See Mode, and cf. Model, Modulus, Mold a matrix.]

1. A model or measure.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: The size of some one part, as the diameter of semi-diameter of
the base of a shaft, taken as a unit of measure by which the
proportions of the other parts of the composition are regulated.
Generally, for columns, the semi-diameter is taken, and divided into
a certain number of parts, called minutes (see Minute), though often
the diameter is taken, and any dimension is said to be so many
modules and minutes in height, breadth, or projection.

MODULE
Mod"ule, v. t. Etym: [See module, n., Modulate.]

Defn: To model; also, to modulate. [Obs.] Sandys. Drayton.

MODULUS
Mod"u*lus, n.; pl. Moduli. Etym: [L., a small measure. See Module,
n.] (Math., Mech., & Physics)

Defn: A quantity or coefficient, or constant, which expresses the
measure of some specified force, property, or quality, as of
elasticity, strength, efficiency, etc.; a parameter. Modulus of a
machine, a formula expressing the work which a given machine can
perform under the conditions involved in its construction; the
relation between the work done upon a machine by the moving power,
and that yielded at the working points, either constantly, if its
motion be uniform, or in the interval of time which it occupies in
passing from any given velocity to the same velocity again, if its
motion be variable; -- called also the efficiency of the machine.
Mosley. Rankine.
 -- Modulus of a system of logarithms (Math.), a number by which all
the Napierian logarithms must be multiplied to obtain the logarithms
in another system.
 -- Modulus of elasticity. (a) The measure of the elastic force of
any substance, expressed by the ratio of a stress on a given unit of
the substance to the accompanying distortion, or strain. (b) An
expression of the force (usually in terms of the height in feet or
weight in pounds of a column of the same body) which would be
necessary to elongate a prismatic body of a transverse section equal
to a given unit, as a square inch or foot, to double, or to compress
it to half, its original length, were that degree of elongation or
compression possible, or within the limits of elasticity; -- called
also Young's modulus.
 -- Modulus of rupture, the measure of the force necessary to break a
given substance across, as a beam, expressed by eighteen times the
load which is required to break a bar of one inch square, supported
flatwise at two points one foot apart, and loaded in the middle
between the points of support. Rankine.

MODUS
Mo"dus, n.; pl. Modi. Etym: [L. See Mode.] (Old Law)

1. The arrangement of, or mode of expressing, the terms of a contract
or conveyance.

2. (Law)

Defn: A qualification involving the idea of variation or departure
from some general rule or form, in the way of either restriction or
enlargement, according to the circumstances of the case, as in the
will of a donor, an agreement between parties, and the like. Bracton.

3. (Law)

Defn: A fixed compensation or equivalent given instead of payment of
tithes in kind, expressed in full by the phrase modus decimandi.
Blackstone.
They, from time immemorial, had paid a modus, or composition. Landor.
Modus operandi ( Etym: [L.], manner of operating.

MODUS VIVENDI
Mo"dus vi*ven"di. [L.]

Defn: Mode, or manner, of living; hence, a temporary arrangement of
affairs until disputed matters can be settled.

MODY
Mod"y, a. Etym: [From Mode.]

Defn: Fashionable. [R.]

MOE
Moe, n.

Defn: A wry face or mouth; a mow. [Obs.]

MOE
Moe, v. i.

Defn: To make faces; to mow. [Obs.]

MOE
Moe, a., adv., & n. Etym: [AS. ma See More.]

Defn: More. See Mo. [Obs.] "Sing no more ditties, sing no moe." Shak.

MOEBLES
Moe"bles, n. pl. Etym: [OE., fr. OF. moeble, mueble, movable, from L.
mobilis.]

Defn: Movables; furniture; -- also used in the singular (moeble).
[Obs.] Chaucer.

MOELLINE
Mo"el*line, n. Etym: [F. moelle, fr. L. medulla marrow.]

Defn: An unguent for the hair.

MOELLON
Mo"el*lon, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Rubble masonry.

MOESOGOTHIC
Moe`so*goth"ic, a.

Defn: Belonging to the Moesogoths, a branch of the Goths who settled
in Moesia.

MOESOGOTHIC
Moe`so*goth"ic, n.

Defn: The language of the Moesogoths; -- also called Gothic.

MOEVE
Moeve, v. t. & i.

Defn: To move. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOFF
Moff, n.

Defn: A thin silk stuff made in Caucasia.

MOG
Mog, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Mogged; p. pr. & vb. n. Mogging.] [Etym.
unknown.]

Defn: To move away; to go off. [Prov. Eng. or Local, U. S.]

MOGGAN
Mog"gan, n.

Defn: A closely fitting knit sleeve; also, a legging of knitted
material. [Scot.]

MOGUL
Mo*gul", n. Etym: [From the Mongolian.]

1. A person of the Mongolian race.

2. (Railroad)

Defn: A heavy locomotive for freight traffic, having three pairs of
connected driving wheels and a two-wheeled truck. Great, or Grand,
Mogul, the sovereign of the empire founded in Hindostan by the
Mongols under Baber in the sixteenth century. Hence, a very important
personage; a lord; -- sometimes only mogul. Dryden.

MOHA
Mo"ha, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of millet (Setaria Italica); German millet.

MOHAIR
Mo"hair`, n. Etym: [F. moire, perh. from Ar. mukhayyar a kind of
coarse camelot or haircloth; but prob. fr. L. marmoreus of marble,
resembling marble. Cf. Moire, Marble.]

Defn: The long silky hair or wool of the Angora goat of Asia Minor;
also, a fabric made from this material, or an imitation of such
fabric.

MOHAMMEDAN
Mo*ham"med*an, a. Etym: [From Mohammed, fr. Ar. muhámmad
praiseworthy, highly praised.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Mohammed, or the religion and institutions
founded by Mohammed. [Written also Mahometan, Mahomedan, Muhammadan,
etc.]

MOHAMMEDAN
Mo*ham"med*an, n.

Defn: A follower of Mohammed, the founder of Islamism; one who
professes Mohammedanism or Islamism.

MOHAMMEDAN CALENDAR
Mo*ham"med*an cal"en*dar.

Defn: A lunar calendar reckoning from the year of the hegira, 622 a.
d. Thirty of its years constitute a cycle, of which the 2d, 5th, 7th,
10th, 13th, 16th, 18th, 21st, 24th, 26th, and 29th are leap years,
having 355 days; the others are common, having 354 days. By the
following tables any Mohammedan date may be changed into the
Christian date, or vice versa, for the years 1900-1935 a. d.

Months of the Mohammedan year.

1 Muharram . . . .. 30 2 Safar . . . . . . .. 29 3 Rabia I . . . . .
. 30 4 Rabia II . . . .. 29 5 Jumada I . . . .. 30 6 Jumada II . . .
. 29 7 Rajab . . . . . . .. 30 8 Shaban . . . . . . . 29 9 Ramadan .
. . . . . 30 10 Shawwal . . . . . . 29 11 Zu'lkadah . . . . 30 12
Zu'lhijjah . . . 29* * in leap year, 30 days

a. h. a. d. a. h.    a. d.

1317  begins May 12, 1899      1336* begins Oct.17, 1917 1318
May  1, 1900      1337         Oct. 7, 1918 1319*        Apr.20, 1901
1338*        Sept.26,1919 1320         Apr.10, 1902      1339
Sept.15,1920 1321+        Mar.30, 1903      1340         Sept.4, 1921
1322*        Mar.18, 1904      1341*        Aug.24, 1922 1323
Mar. 8, 1905      1342         Aug.14, 1923 1324         Feb.25, 1906
1343         Aug. 2, 1924 1325*        Feb.14, 1907      1344*
July 22,1925 1326         Feb. 4, 1908      1345         July 12,1926
1327*        Jan.23, 1909      1346*        July 1, 1927 1328
Jan.13, 1910      1347         June 20,1928 1329         Jan. 2, 1911
1348         June 9, 1929 1330*        Dec.22, 1911      1349*
May 29, 1930 1331         Dec.11, 1912      1350         May 19, 1931
1332         Nov.30, 1913      1351++       May  7, 1932 1333*
Nov.19, 1914      1352*        Apr.26, 1933 1334         Nov. 9, 1915
1353         Apr.16, 1934 1335         Oct.28, 1916      1354
Apr. 5, 1935 * Leap year  + First year of the 45th cycle ++ First
year of the 46th cycle

The following general rule for finding the date of commencement of
any Mohammedan year has a maximum error of a day: Multiply 970,224 by
the Mohammedan year, point off six decimal places, and add 621.5774.
The whole number will be the year a. d., and the decimal multiplied
by 365 will give the day of the year.

MOHAMMEDAN ERA
Mohammedan Era.

Defn: The era in use in Mohammedan countries. See Mohammedan year,
below.

MOHAMMEDANISM; MOHAMMEDISM
Mo*ham"med*an*ism, Mo*ham"med*ism, n.

Defn: The religion, or doctrines and precepts, of Mohammed, contained
in the Koran; Islamism.

MOHAMMEDANIZE; MOHAMMEDIZE
Mo*ham"med*an*ize, Mo*ham"med*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make conformable to the principles, or customs and rites, of
Mohammedanism. [Written also Mahometanize.]

MOHAMMEDAN YEAR
Mohammedan year.

Defn: The year used by Mohammedans, consisting of twelve lunar months
without intercalation, so that they retrograde through all the
seasons in about 32½ years. The Mohammedan era begins with the year
622 a.d., the first day of the Mohammedan year 1332 begin Nov. 30,
1913, acording to the Gregorian calendar.

MOHAWK
Mo"hawk, n.

1. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of a tribe of Indians who formed part of the Five Nations.
They formerly inhabited the valley of the Mohawk River.

2. One of certain ruffians who infested the streets of London in the
time of Addison, and took the name from the Mohawk Indians. [Slang]
Spectator. Macaulay.

MOHICANS
Mo*hi"cans, n. pl.; sing. Mohican (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Lenni-Lenape Indians who formerly inhabited Western
Connecticut and Eastern New York. [Written also Mohegans.]

MOHO
Mo"ho, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gallinule (Notornis Mantelli) formerly inhabiting New
Zealand, but now supposed to be extinct. It was incapable of flight.
See Notornis.

MOHOCK
Mo"hock, n.

Defn: See Mohawk.

MOHOLI
Mo*ho"li, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Maholi.

MOHR
Mohr, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A West African gazelle (Gazella mohr), having horns on which
are eleven or twelve very prominent rings. It is one of the species
which produce bezoar. [Written also mhorr.]

MOHUR
Mo"hur, n. Etym: [Hind., fr. Per. muhur, muhr, a gold coin, a seal,
seal ring.]

Defn: A British Indian gold coin, of the value of fifteen silver
rupees, or $7.21. Malcom.

MOHURRUM; MUHARRAM
Mo*hur"rum, Mu*har"ram, n. Etym: [Ar. muharram, prop., sacred,
forbidden, n., the first month of the Mohammedan lunar year.]

1. The first month of the Mohammedan year. Whitworth.

2. A festival of the Shiah sect of the Mohammedans held during the
first ten days of the month Mohurrum.

MOIDER
Moi"der, v. i.

Defn: To toil. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

MOIDORE
Moi"dore, n. Etym: [Pg. moeda d'ouro, lit., coin of gold. Cf. Money,
and Aureate.]

Defn: A gold coin of Portugal, valued at about 27s. sterling.

MOIETY
Moi"e*ty, n.; pl. Moieties. Etym: [F. moitié, L. medietas, fr. medius
middle, half. See Mid, a., and cf. Mediate, Mediety.]

1. One of two equal parts; a half; as, a moiety of an estate, of
goods, or of profits; the moiety of a jury, or of a nation. Shak.
The more beautiful moiety of his majesty's subject. Addison.

2. An indefinite part; a small part. Shak.

MOIL
Moil, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Moiled; p. pr. & vb. n. Moiling.] Etym:
[OE. moillen to wet, OF. moillier, muillier, F. mouller, fr.
(assumed) LL. molliare, fr. L. mollis soft. See Mollify.]

Defn: To daub; to make dirty; to soil; to defile.
Thou ... doest thy mind in dirty pleasures moil. Spenser.

MOIL
Moil, v. i. Etym: [From Moil to daub; prob. from the idea of
struggling through the wet.]

Defn: To soil one's self with severe labor; to work with painful
effort; to labor; to toil; to drudge.
Moil not too much under ground. Bacon.
Now he must moil and drudge for one he loathes. Dryden.

MOIL
Moil, n.

Defn: A spot; a defilement.
The moil of death upon them. Mrs. Browning.

MOILE
Moile, n. Etym: [F. mule a slipper.]

Defn: A kind of high shoe anciently worn. [Written also moyle.]

MOINEAU
Moi"neau, n. Etym: [F.] (Fort.)

Defn: A small flat bastion, raised in the middle of an overlong
curtain.

MOIRA
Moi"ra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Greek Myth.)

Defn: The deity who assigns to every man his lot.

MOIRE
Moire, n. Etym: [F. Cf. Mohair.]

1. Originally, a fine textile fabric made of the hair of an Asiatic
goat; afterwards, any textile fabric to which a watered appearance is
given in the process of calendering.

2. A watered, clouded, or frosted appearance produced upon either
textile fabrics or metallic surfaces. Moire antique, a superior kind
of thick moire.

MOIRE METALLIQUE
Moi`ré" mé`tal`lique". Etym: [F.]

Defn: A crystalline or frosted appearance produced by some acids on
tin plate; also, the tin plate thus treated.

MOIST
Moist, a. Etym: [OE. moiste, OF. moiste, F. moite, fr. L. muccidus,
for mucidus, moldy, musty. Cf. Mucus, Mucid.]

1. Moderately wet; damp; humid; not dry; as, a moist atmosphere or
air. "Moist eyes." Shak.

2. Fresh, or new. [Obs.] "Shoes full moist and new." "A draught of
moist and corny ale." Chaucer.

MOIST
Moist, v. t.

Defn: To moisten. [Obs.] Shak.

MOISTEN
Mois"ten, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Moistened; p. pr. & vb. n. Moistening.]

1. To make damp; to wet in a small degree.
A pipe a little moistened on the inside. Bacon.

2. To soften by making moist; to make tender.
It moistened not his executioner's heart with any pity. Fuller.

MOISTENER
Mois"ten*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, moistens. Johnson.

MOISTFUL
Moist"ful, a.

Defn: Full of moisture. [R.]

MOISTLESS
Moist"less, a.

Defn: Without moisture; dry. [R.]

MOISTNESS
Moist"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being moist.

MOISTURE
Mois"ture, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. moistour, F. moiteur.]

1. A moderate degree of wetness. Bacon.

2. That which moistens or makes damp or wet; exuding fluid; liquid in
small quantity.
All my body's moisture Scarce serves to quench my furnace-burning
heat. Shak.

MOISTURELESS
Mois"ture*less, a.

Defn: Without moisture.

MOISTY
Moist"y, a.

Defn: Moist. [Obs.]

MOITHER
Moi"ther, v. t. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: To perplex; to confuse. [Prov. Eng.] Lamb.

MOITHER
Moi"ther, v. i.

Defn: To toil; to labor. [Prov. Eng.]

MOJARRA
Mo*jar"ra, n. [Sp.]

Defn: Any of certain basslike marine fishes (mostly of tropical seas,
and having a deep, compressed body, protracile mouth, and large
silvery scales) constituting the family Gerridæ, as Gerres plumieri,
found from Florida to Brazil and used as food. Also, any of numerous
other fishes of similar appearance but belonging to other families.

MOKADOUR
Mok"a*dour, n. Etym: [Sp. mocador handkerchief.]

Defn: A handkerchief. [Obs.]

MOKE
Moke, n.

Defn: A donkey. [Cant] Thackeray.

MOKE
Moke, n.

Defn: A mesh of a net, or of anything resembling a net. Halliwell.

MOKY
Mo"ky, a. Etym: [Cf. Icel. mökkvi cloud, mist, mökkr a dense cloud,
W. mwg smoke, and E. muggy, muck.]

Defn: Misty; dark; murky; muggy. [Obs.]

MOLA
Mo"la, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Sunfish, 1.

MOLAR
Mo"lar, a. Etym: [L. moles mass.] (Mech.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a mass of matter; -- said of the properties
or motions of masses, as distinguished from those of molecules or
atoms. Carpenter.

MOLAR
Mo"lar, a. Etym: [L. molaris, fr. mola mill, fr. molere to grind in a
mill. See Mill the machine.]

Defn: Having power to grind; grinding; as, the molar teeth; also, of
or pertaining to the molar teeth. Bacon.

MOLAR
Mo"lar, n. (Anat.)

Defn: Any one of the teeth back of the incisors and canines. The
molar which replace the deciduous or milk teeth are designated as
premolars, and those which are not preceded by deciduous teeth are
sometimes called true molars. See Tooth.

MOLARY
Mo"la*ry, a.

Defn: Same as 2d Molar.

MOLASSE
Mo*lasse", n. Etym: [F. molasse, prob. fr. mollasse flabby, flimsy,
fr. L. mollis soft.] (Geol.)

Defn: A soft Tertiary sandstone; -- applied to a rock occurring in
Switzerland. See Chart of Geology.

MOLASSES
Mo*las"ses, n. Etym: [F. mélasse, cf. Sp. melaza, Pg. melaço, fr. L.
mellaceus honeylike, honey-sweet, mel, mellis, honey. See
Mellifluous, and cf. Melasses.]

Defn: The thick, brown or dark colored, viscid, uncrystallizable
sirup which drains from sugar, in the process of manufacture; any
thick, viscid, sweet sirup made from vegetable juice or sap, as of
the sorghum or maple. See Treacle.

MOLD
Mold, n. Etym: [See Mo a spot.]

Defn: A spot; a blemish; a mole. [Obs.] Spenser.

MOLD; MOULD
Mold, Mould, n. Etym: [OE. molde, AS. molde; akin to D. mul, G. mull,
mulm, OHG. molt, molta, Icel. mold, Dan. muld, Sw. mull, Goth. mulda,
and E. meal flour. See Meal, and cf. Mole an animal, Mull, v.] [The
prevalent spelling is, perhaps, mould; but as the u has not been
inserted in the other words of this class, as bold, gold, old, cold,
etc., it seems desirable to complete the analogy by dropping it from
this word, thus spelling it as Spenser, South, and many others did.
The omission of the u is now very common in America.]

1. Crumbling, soft, friable earth; esp., earth containing the remains
or constituents of organic matter, and suited to the growth of
plants; soil.

2. Earthy material; the matter of which anything is formed; composing
substance; material.
The etherial mold, Incapable of stain. Milton.
Nature formed me of her softest mold. Addison.

MOLD; MOULD
Mold, Mould, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Molded or Moulded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Molding or Moulding.]

Defn: To cover with mold or soil. [R.]

MOLD; MOULD
Mold, Mould, n. Etym: [From the p.p. of OE. moulen to become moldy,
to rot, prob. fr. Icel. mygla to grow musty, mugga mugginess; cf. Sw.
mögla to grow moldy. See Muggy, and cf. Moldy.] (Bot.)

Defn: A growth of minute fungi of various kinds, esp. those of the
great groups Hyphomycetes, and Physomycetes, forming on damp or
decaying organic matter.

Note: The common blue mold of cheese, the brick-red cheese mold, and
the scarlet or orange strata which grow on tubers or roots stored up
for use, when commencing to decay, are familiar examples. M. J.
Berkley.

MOLD; MOULD
Mold, Mould, v. t.

Defn: To cause to become moldy; to cause mold to grow upon.

MOLD; MOULD
Mold, Mould, v. i.

Defn: To become moldy; to be covered or filled, in whole or in part,
with a mold.

MOLD; MOULD
Mold, Mould, n. Etym: [OE. molde, OF. mole, F. moule, fr. L. modulus.
See Model.] [For spelling, see 2d Mold, above.]

1. The matrix, or cavity, in which anything is shaped, and from which
it takes its form; also, the body or mass containing the cavity; as,
a sand mold; a jelly mold. Milton.

2. That on which, or in accordance with which, anything is modeled or
formed; anything which serves to regulate the size, form, etc., as
the pattern or templet used by a shipbuilder, carpenter, or mason.
The glass of fashion and the mold of form. Shak.

3. Cast; form; shape; character.
Crowned with an architrave of antique mold. Pope.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: A group of moldings; as, the arch mold of a porch or doorway;
the pier mold of a Gothic pier, meaning the whole profile, section,
or combination of parts.

5. (Anat.)

Defn: A fontanel.

6. (Paper Making)

Defn: A frame with a wire cloth bottom, on which the pump is drained
to form a sheet, in making paper by hand.

MOLD; MOULD
Mold, Mould, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. mouler, OF. moler, moller. See Mold
the matrix.]

1. To form into a particular shape; to shape; to model; to fashion.
He forgeth and moldeth metals. Sir M. Hale.
Did I request thee, Maker, from my clay To mold me man Milton.

2. To ornament by molding or carving the material of; as, a molded
window jamb.

3. To knead; as, to mold dough or bread.

4. (Founding)

Defn: To form a mold of, as in sand, in which a casting may be made.

MOLDABLE; MOULDABLE
Mold"a*ble, Mould"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being molded or formed.

MOLDBOARD; MOULDBOARD
Mold"board`, Mould"board`, n.

1. A curved plate of iron (originally of wood) back of the share of a
plow, which turns over the earth in plowing.

2. (Founding)

Defn: A follow board.

MOLDER; MOULDER
Mold"er, Mould"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, molds or forms into shape; specifically
(Founding), one skilled in the art of making molds for castings.

MOLDER; MOULDER
Mold"er, Mould"er, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Moldered or Mouldered; p. pr.
& vb. n. Moldering or Mouldering.] Etym: [From Mold fine soft earth:
cf. Prov. G. multern.]

Defn: To crumble into small particles; to turn to dust by natural
decay; to lose form, or waste away, by a gradual separation of the
component particles, without the presence of water; to crumble away.
The moldering of earth in frosts and sun. Bacon.
When statues molder, and when arches fall. Prior.
If he had sat still, the enemy's army would have moldered to nothing.
Clarendon.

MOLDER; MOULDER
Mold"er, Mould"er, v. t.

Defn: To turn to dust; to cause to crumble; to cause to waste away.
[Time's] gradual touch Has moldered into beauty many a tower. Mason.

MOLDERY; MOULDERY
Mold"er*y, Mould"er*y, a.

Defn: Covered or filled with mold; consisting of, or resembling,
mold.

MOLDINESS; MOULDINESS
Mold"i*ness, Mould"i*ness, n. Etym: [From Moldy.]

Defn: The state of being moldy.

MOLDING; MOULDING
Mold"ing, Mould"ing, n.

1. The act or process of shaping in or on a mold, or of making molds;
the art or occupation of a molder.

2. Anything cast in a mold, or which appears to be so, as grooved or
ornamental bars of wood or metal.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A plane, or curved, narrow surface, either sunk or projecting,
used for decoration by means of the lights and shades upon its
surface. Moldings vary greatly in pattern, and are generally used in
groups, the different members of each group projecting or retreating,
one beyond another. See Cable, n., 3, and Crenelated molding, under
Crenelate, v. t.

MOLDING; MOULDING
Mold"ing, Mould"ing, p.a.

Defn: Used in making a mold or moldings; used in shaping anything
according to a pattern. Molding, or Moulding, board. (a) See Follow
board, under Follow, v. t. (b) A board on which bread or pastry is
kneaded and shaped.
 -- Molding, or Moulding, machine. (a) (Woodworking) A planing
machine for making moldings. (b) (Founding) A machine to assist in
making molds for castings.
 -- Molding, or Moulding, mill, a mill for shaping timber.
 -- Molding, or Moulding, sand (Founding), a kind of sand containing
clay, used in making molds.

MOLDWARP; MOULDWARP
Mold"warp, Mould"warp, n. Etym: [OE. moldwerp: AS. molde soil +
weorpan to throw up; cf. OD. molworp, G. maulwurf, Icel. moldvarpa,
Dan. muldvarp. See Mold soil, Warp, and cf. Mole the animal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mole the animal. Spenser.

MOLDY; MOULDY
Mold"y, Mould"y, a. [Compar. Moldier or Mouldier; superl. Moldiest or
Mouldiest.] Etym: [From Mold the growth of fungi.]

Defn: Overgrown with, or containing, mold; as, moldy cheese or bread.

MOLE
Mole, n. Etym: [AS. mal; akin to OHG. meil, Goth. mail Cf. Mail a
spot.]

1. A spot; a stain; a mark which discolors or disfigures. [Obs.]
Piers Plowman.

2. A spot, mark, or small permanent protuberance on the human body;
esp., a spot which is dark-colored, from which commonly issue one or
more hairs.

MOLE
Mole, n. Etym: [L. mola.]

Defn: A mass of fleshy or other more or less solid matter generated
in the uterus.

MOLE
Mole, n. Etym: [F. môle, L. moles. Cf. Demolish, Emolument, Molest.]

Defn: A mound or massive work formed of masonry or large stones,
etc., laid in the sea, often extended either in a right line or an
arc of a circle before a port which it serves to defend from the
violence of the waves, thus protecting ships in a harbor; also,
sometimes, the harbor itself. Brande & C.

MOLE
Mole, n. Etym: [OE. molle, either shortened fr. moldwerp, or from the
root of E. mold soil: cf. D. mol, OD. molworp. See Moldwarp.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any insectivore of the family Talpidæ. They have minute eyes
and ears, soft fur, and very large and strong fore feet.

Note: The common European mole, or moldwarp (Talpa Europæa), is noted
for its extensive burrows. The common American mole, or shrew mole
(Scalops aquaticus), and star-nosed mole (Condylura cristata) have
similar habits.

Note: In the Scriptures, the name is applied to two unindentified
animals, perhaps the chameleon and mole rat.

2. A plow of peculiar construction, for forming underground drains.
[U.S.] Duck mole. See under Duck.
 -- Golden mole. See Chrysochlore.
 -- Mole cricket (Zoöl.), an orthopterous insect of the genus
Gryllotalpa, which excavates subterranean galleries, and throws up
mounds of earth resembling those of the mole. It is said to do damage
by injuring the roots of plants. The common European species
(Gryllotalpa vulgaris), and the American (G. borealis), are the best
known.
 -- Mole rat (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Old World rodents
of the genera Spalax, Georychus, and several allied genera. They are
molelike in appearance and habits, and their eyes are small or
rudimentary.
 -- Mole shrew (Zoöl.), any one of several species of short-tailed
American shrews of the genus Blarina, esp. B. brevicauda.
 -- Water mole, the duck mole.

MOLE
Mole, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Moled; p. pr. & vb. n. Moling.]

1. To form holes in, as a mole; to burrow; to excavate; as, to mole
the earth.

2. To clear of molehills. [Prov. Eng.] Pegge.

MOLEBUT
Mole"but, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sunfish (Orthagoriscus, or Mola). [Written also molebat.]

MOLECAST
Mole"cast`, n.

Defn: A little elevation of earth made by a mole; a molehill.
Mortimer.

MOLECH
Mo"lech, n. Etym: [Heb. molek king.] (Script.)

Defn: The fire god of the Ammonites, to whom human sacrifices were
offered; Moloch. Lev. xviii. 21.

MOLECULAR
Mo*lec"u*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. moléculare. See Molecule.] (Phys. &
Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, connected with, produced by, or consisting of,
molecules; as, molecular forces; molecular groups of atoms, etc.
Molecular attraction (Phys.), attraction acting between the molecules
of bodies, and at insensible distances.
 -- Molecular weight (Chem.), the weight of a molecule of any gas or
vapor as compared with the hydrogen atom as a standard; the sum of
the atomic weights of the constituents of a molecule; thus, the
molecular weight of water (H2O) is 18.

MOLECULARITY
Mo*lec`u*lar"i*ty, n. (Phys. & Chem.)

Defn: The state of consisting of molecules; the state or quality of
being molecular.

MOLECULARLY
Mo*lec"u*lar*ly, adv. (Phys. & Chem.)

Defn: With molecules; in the manner of molecules. W. R. Grove.

MOLECULE
Mol"e*cule, n. Etym: [Dim. fr. L. moles a mass: cf. F. molécule. See
3d Mole.]

1. One of the very small invisible particles of which all matter is
supposed to consist.

2. (Physics)

Defn: The smallest part of any substance which possesses the
characteristic properties and qualities of that substance, and which
can exist alone in a free state.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: A group of atoms so united and combined by chemical affinity
that they form a complete, integrated whole, being the smallest
portion of any particular compound that can exist in a free state;
as, a molecule of water consists of two atoms of hydrogen and one of
oxygen. Cf. Atom.

MOLE-EYED
Mole"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having eyes like those of the mole; having imperfect sight.

MOLEHILL
Mole"hill`, n.

Defn: A little hillock of earth thrown up by moles working under
ground; hence, a very small hill, or an insignificant obstacle or
difficulty.
Having leapt over such mountains, lie down before a molehill. South.

MOLENDINACEOUS; MOLENDINARIOUS
Mo*len`di*na"ceous, Mo*len`di*na"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. molendinarius,
fr. molendinum a mill, fr. molere to grind.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling the sails of a windmill.

MOLESKIN
Mole"skin`, n.

Defn: Any fabric having a thick soft shag, like the fur of a mole;
esp., a kind of strong twilled fustian.

MOLEST
Mo*lest", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Molested; p. pr. & vb. n. Molesting.]
Etym: [F. molester, L. molestare, fr. molestus troublesome, fr. moles
a heavy mass, load, burden. See 3d Mole.]

Defn: To trouble; to disturb; to render uneasy; to interfere with; to
vex.
They have molested the church with needless opposition. Hooker.

Syn.
 -- To trouble; disturb; incommode; inconvenience; annoy; vex; tease.

MOLEST
Mo*lest", n.

Defn: Molestation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOLESTATION
Mol`es*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. molestation.]

Defn: The act of molesting, or the state of being molested;
disturbance; annoyance.

MOLESTER
Mo*lest"er, n.

Defn: One who molests.

MOLESTFUL
Mo*lest"ful, a.

Defn: Troublesome; vexatious. [R.]

MOLESTIE; MOLESTY
Mo*les"tie, Mo*les"ty, n. Etym: [L. molestia.]

Defn: Molestation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOLEWARP
Mole"warp`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Moldwarp.

MOLIMINOUS
Mo*lim"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. molimen a great exertion; moles a heavy
mass.]

Defn: Of great bulk or consequence; very important. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

MOLINE
Mo"line, n. Etym: [L. molina mill, fr. molere to grind. See Mill.]

Defn: The crossed iron that supports the upper millstone by resting
on the spindle; a millrind. Cross moline (Her.), a cross each arm of
which is divided at the end into two rounded branches or divisions.

MOLINISM
Mo"lin*ism, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: The doctrines of the Molinists, somewhat resembling the tenets
of the Arminians.

MOLINIST
Mo"lin*ist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of the opinions of Molina, a Spanish Jesuit (in
respect to grace); an opposer of the Jansenists.

MOLL
Moll, a. Etym: [G., fr. L. mollis soft, tender, elegiac. Cf. Molle.]
(Mus.)

Defn: Minor; in the minor mode; as, A moll, that is, A minor.

MOLLAH
Mol"lah, n. Etym: [Ar. maula, commonly mollain Turkey.]

Defn: One of the higher order of Turkish judges; also, a Turkish
title of respect for a religious and learned man. [Written also
moolah.]

MOLLE
Mol"le, a. Etym: [See Moll.] (Mus.)

Defn: Lower by a semitone; flat; as, E molle, that is, E flat.

MOLLEBART
Mol"le*bart, n.

Defn: An agricultural implement used in Flanders, consisting of a
kind of large shovel drawn by a horse and guided by a man. [Written
also mollebært and mouldebært.] Simmonds.

MOLLEMOKE
Mol"le*moke`, n. Etym: [Sw. mallemucke the stormy petrel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large pelagic petrels and
fulmars, as Fulmarus glacialis, of the North Atlantic, and several
species of Æstrelata, of the Southern Ocean. See Fulmar. [Written
also mollymawk, malmock, mollemock, mallemocke, etc.]

MOLLIENT
Mol"lient, a. Etym: [L. molliens, p.p. of mollire to soften, fr.
mollis soft.]

Defn: Serving to soften; assuaging; emollient.

MOLLIENTLY
Mol"lient*ly, adv.

Defn: Assuagingly.

MOLLIFIABLE
Mol"li*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being mollified.

MOLLIFICATION
Mol`li*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [LL. mollificatio; cf. F. mollification.]

Defn: The act of mollifying, or the state of being mollified; a
softening. Chaucer.

MOLLIFIER
Mol"li*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, mollifies. Bacon.

MOLLIFY
Mol"li*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mollified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mollifying.] Etym: [F. mollifier, L. mollificare; mollis soft + -
ficare (in comp.) to make. See Enmollient, Moil, v. t., and -fy.]

1. To soften; to make tender; to reduce the hardness, harshness, or
asperity of; to qualify; as, to mollify the ground.
With sweet science mollified their stubborn hearts. Spenser.

2. To assuage, as pain or irritation, to appease, as excited feeling
or passion; to pacify; to calm.

MOLLINET
Mol"li*net, n. Etym: [Cf. Moline.]

Defn: A little mill.

MOLLIPILOSE
Mol`li*pi*lose", a. Etym: [L. mollis soft + pilosus hairy.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having soft hairs; downy.

MOLLITIES
Mol*li"ti*es, n. Etym: [L., softness.] (Med.)

Defn: Unnatural softness of any organ or part. Dunglison.

MOLLITUDE
Mol"li*tude, n. Etym: [L. mollitudo, fr. mollis soft.]

Defn: Softness; effeminacy; weakness. [R.]

MOLLUSC
Mol"lusc, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Mollusk.

MOLLUSCA
Mol*lus"ca, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Mollusk.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom, including the
classes Cephalopoda, Gastropoda, PteropodaScaphopoda, and
Lamellibranchiata, or Conchifera. These animals have an unsegmented
bilateral body, with most of the organs and parts paired, but not
repeated longitudinally. Most of them develop a mantle, which
incloses either a branchial or a pulmonary cavity. They are generally
more or less covered and protected by a calcareous shell, which may
be univalve, bivalve, or multivalve.

Note: Formerly the Brachiopoda, Bryzoa, and Tunicata were united with
the Lamellibranchiata in an artificial group called Acephala, which
was also included under Mollusca. See Molluscoudea.

MOLLUSCAN
Mol*lus"can, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to mollusks.
 -- n.

Defn: A mollusk; one of the Mollusca.

MOLLUSCOID
Mol*lus"coid, a. Etym: [Mollusca + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling the true mollusks; belonging to the Molluscoidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Molluscoidea.

MOLLUSCOIDAL
Mol`lus*coid"al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Molluscoid.

MOLLUSCOIDEA
Mol`lus*coi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Mollusk, and -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Invertebrata which includes the classes
Brachiopoda and Bryozoa; -- called also Anthoid Mollusca.

Note: Originally the Tunicata were included under Molluscoidea, from
which they are known to differ widely in structure and embryology.
Molluscoidea were formerly considered a subdivision of Mollusca, but
they are now known to have more relationship with Annelida than with
Mollusca.

MOLLUSCOUS
Mol*lus"cous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Molluscan.

MOLLUSCUM
Mol*lus"cum, n. Etym: [NL. See Mollusk.] (Med.)

Defn: A cutaneous disease characterized by numerous tumors, of
various forms, filled with a thick matter; -- so called from the
resemblance of the tumors to some molluscous animals. Dunglison.

MOLLUSK
Mol"lusk, n. Etym: [F. mollusque, L. mollusca a kind of soft nut with
a thin shell, fr. molluscus soft, mollis soft. See Mollify.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Mollusca. [Written also mollusc.]

MOLLY
Mol"ly, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Mollemoke.

MOLLY
Mol"ly, n.

Defn: A pet or colloquial name for Mary. Molly cottontail. (Zoöl.)
See Cottontail.
 -- Molly Maguire (ma*gwir"); pl. Molly Maguires (-gwirz). (a) A
member of a secret association formed among the tenantry in Ireland
about 1843, principally for the purpose of intimidating law officers
and preventing the service of legal writs. Its members disguised
themselves in the dress of women. (b) A member of a similar
association of Irishmen organized in the anthracite coal region of
Pennsylvania, about 1854, for the purpose of intimidating employers
and officers of the law, and for avenging themselves by murder on
persons obnoxious to them. The society was broken up by criminal
prosecutions in 1876.

MOLLY-MAWK
Mol"ly-mawk`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mollemoke.

MOLOCH
Mo"loch, n. Etym: [Heb. molek king.]

1. (Script.)

Defn: The fire god of the Ammonites in Canaan, to whom human
sacrifices were offered; Molech. Also applied figuratively.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spiny Australian lizard (Moloch horridus). The horns on the
head and numerous spines on the body give it a most formidable
appearance.

MOLOKANE; MOLOKANY
Mol`o*ka"ne, Mol`o*ka"ny, n. pl. [Russ. molokane.]

Defn: See Raskolnik.

MOLOSSE
Mo*losse", n.

Defn: See Molossus.

MOLOSSES
Mo*los"ses, n.

Defn: Molasses. [Obs.]

MOLOSSINE
Mo*los"sine, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bat of the genus Molossus, as the monk bat.

MOLOSSUS
Mo*los"sus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gr. & Lat. Pros.)

Defn: A foot of three long syllables. [Written also molosse.]

MOLT
Molt, obs.imp.

Defn: of Melt. Chaucer. Spenser.

MOLT; MOULT
Molt, Moult, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Molted or Moulted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Molting or Moulting.] Etym: [OE. mouten, L. mutare. See Mew to molt,
and cf. Mute, v. t.] [The prevalent spelling is, perhaps, moult; but
as the u has not been inserted in the otherwords of this class, as,
bolt, colt, dolt, etc., it is desirable to complete the analogy by
the spelling molt.]

Defn: To shed or cast the hair, feathers, skin, horns, or the like,
as an animal or a bird. Bacon.

MOLT; MOULT
Molt, Moult, v. t.

Defn: To cast, as the hair, skin, feathers, or the like; to shed.

MOLT; MOULT
Molt, Moult, n.

Defn: The act or process of changing the feathers, hair, skin, etc.;
molting.

MOLTABLE
Molt"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of assuming a molten state; meltable; fusible. [Obs.]

MOLTEN
Mol"ten, a. Etym: [See Melt.]

1. Melted; being in a state of fusion, esp. when the liquid state is
produced by a high degree of heat; as, molten iron.

2. Made by melting and casting the substance or metal of which the
thing is formed; as, a molten image.

MOLTO
Mol"to, adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Much; very; as, molto adagio, very slow.

MOLY
Mo"ly, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A fabulous herb of occult power, having a black root and white
blossoms, said by Homer to have been given by Hermes to Ulysses to
counteract the spells of Circe. Milton.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of garlic (Allium Moly) with large yellow flowers; --
called also golden garlic.

MOLYBDATE
Mo*lyb"date, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of molybdic acid.

MOLYBDENA
Mol`yb*de"na, n. Etym: [L. molybdaena galena, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: See Molybdenite.

MOLYBDENITE
Mo*lyb"de*nite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. molybdénite. See Molybdena.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in soft, lead-gray, foliated masses or
scales, resembling graphite; sulphide of molybdenum.

MOLYBDENOUS
Mo*lyb"de*nous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: See Molybdous.

MOLYBDENUM
Mol`yb*de"num, n. Etym: [NL.: cf. F. molybdène. See Molybdena.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A rare element of the chromium group, occurring in nature in
the minerals molybdenite and wulfenite, and when reduced obtained as
a hard, silver-white, difficulty fusible metal. Symbol Mo. Atomic
weight 95.9.

MOLYBDIC
Mo*lyb"dic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. molybdique. See molybdena.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, molybdenum; specif.,
designating those compounds in which the element has a higher
valence, as contrasted with molybdous compounds; as, molybdic oxide.

MOLYBDITE
Mo*lyb"dite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Molybdic ocher.

MOLYBDOUS
Mo*lyb"dous, a. Etym: [See Molybdena.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, molybdenum; specif.,
designating those compounds in which molybdenum has a lower valence
as contrasted with molybdic compounds.

MOME
Mome, n. Etym: [Cf. Mumm, Momus.]

Defn: A dull, silent person; a blockhead. [Obs.] Spenser.

MOMENT
Mo"ment, n. Etym: [F. moment, L. momentum, for movimentum movement,
motion, moment, fr. movere to move. See Move, and cf. Momentum,
Movement.]

1. A minute portion of time; a point of time; an instant; as, at thet
very moment.
In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye. 1 Cor. xv. 52.

2. Impulsive power; force; momentum.
The moments or quantities of motion in bodies. Berkley.
Touch, with lightest moment of impulse, His free will. Milton.

3. Importance, as in influence or effect; consequence; weight or
value; consideration.
Matters of great moment. Shak.
It is an abstruse speculation, but also of far less moment and
consequence of us than the others. Bentley.

4. An essential element; a deciding point, fact, or consideration; an
essential or influential circumstance.

5. (Math.)

Defn: An infinitesimal change in a varying quantity; an increment or
decrement. [Obs.]

6. (Mech.)

Defn: Tendency, or measure of tendency, to produce motion, esp.
motion about a fixed point or axis. Moment of a couple (Mech.), the
product of either of its forces into the perpendicular distance
between them.
 -- Moment of a force. (Mech.) (a) With respect to a point, the
product of the intensity of the force into the perpendicular distance
from the point to the line of direction of the force. (b) With
respect to a line, the product of that component of the force which
is perpendicular to the plane passing through the line and the point
of application of the force, into the shortest distance between the
line and this point. (c) With respect to a plane that is parallel to
the force, the product of the force into the perpendicular distance
of its point of application from the plane.
 -- Moment of inertia, of a rotating body, the sum of the mass of
each particle of matter of the body into the square of its distance
from the axis of rotation; -- called also moment of rotation and
moment of the mass.
 -- Statical moment, the product of a force into its leverage; the
same as moment of a force with respect to a point, line, etc.
 -- Virtual moment. See under Virtual.

Syn.
 -- Instant; twinkling; consequence; weight; force; value;
consideration; signification; avail.

MOMENTAL
Mo*men"tal, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. momental.] [Obs.]

1. Lasting but a moment; brief.
Not one momental minute doth she swerve. Breton.

2. Important; momentous.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to moment or momentum.

MOMENTALLY
Mo*men"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: For a moment. [Obs.]

MOMENTANEOUS; MOMENTANY
Mo`men*ta"ne*ous, Mo"men*ta*ny, a. Etym: [L. momentaneus: cf. F.
momentané.]

Defn: Momentary. [Obs.] Hooker. "Momentany as a sound." Shak.

MOMENTARILY
Mo"men*ta*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: Every moment; from moment to moment. Shenstone.

MOMENTARINESS
Mo"men*ta*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being momentary; shortness of duration.

MOMENTARY
Mo"men*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. momentarius. See Moment.]

Defn: Done in a moment; continuing only a moment; lasting a very
short time; as, a momentary pang.
This momentary joy breeds months of pain. Shak.

MOMENTLY
Mo"ment*ly, adv.

1. For a moment.

2. In a moment; every moment; momentarily.

MOMENTOUS
Mo*men"tous, a. Etym: [Cf. L. momentosus rapid, momentary.]

Defn: Of moment or consequence; very important; weighty; as, a
momentous decision; momentous affairs.
 -- Mo*men"tous*ly, adv.
 -- Mo*men"tous*ness, n.

MOMENTUM
Mo*men"tum, n.; pl. L. Momenta, F. Momentums. Etym: [L. See Moment.]

1. (Mech.)

Defn: The quantity of motion in a moving body, being always
proportioned to the quantity of matter multiplied into the velocity;
impetus.

2. Essential element, or constituent element.
I shall state the several momenta of the distinction in separate
propositions. Sir W. Hamilton.

MOMIER
Mom"i*er, n. Etym: [F. mômier, fr. OF. momer, mommer, to mumm, to
mask one's self.]

Defn: A name given in contempt to strict Calvinists in Switzerland,
France, and some parts of Germany, in the early part of the 19th
century.

MOMMERY
Mom"mer*y, n.

Defn: See Mummery. Rowe.

MOMOT
Mo"mot, n. Etym: [Momot and motmot, the native American name.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: See Motmot.

MOMUS
Mo"mus, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Myth.)

Defn: The god of mockery and censure.

MON-
Mon-.

Defn: Same as Mono-.

MONA
Mo"na, n. Etym: [CF. Sp. & Pg. mona, fem. of mono a monkey, ape.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, handsome, long-tailed West American monkey
(Cercopithecus mona). The body is dark olive, with a spot of white on
the haunches.

MONACHAL
Mon"a*chal, a. Etym: [L. monachus a monk: cf. F. monacal. See Monk.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to monks or a monastic life; monastic.

MONACHISM
Mon"a*chism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monachisme.]

Defn: The system and influences of a monastic life; monasticism.

MONACID
Mon*ac"id, a. Etym: [Mon- + acid.] (Chem.)

Defn: Having one hydrogen atom replaceable by a negative or acid atom
or radical; capable of neutralizing a monobasic acid; -- said of
bases, and of certain metals.

MONAD
Mon"ad, n. Etym: [L. monas, -adis, a unit, Gr.

1. An ultimate atom, or simple, unextended point; something ultimate
and indivisible.

2. (Philos. of Leibnitz)

Defn: The elementary and indestructible units which were conceived of
as endowed with the power to produce all the changes they undergo,
and thus determine all physical and spiritual phenomena.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the smallest flangellate Infusoria; esp., the species of
the genus Monas, and allied genera.

4. (Biol.)

Defn: A simple, minute organism; a primary cell, germ, or plastid.

5. (Chem.)

Defn: An atom or radical whose valence is one, or which can combine
with, be replaced by, or exchanged for, one atom of hydrogen. Monad
deme (Biol.), in tectology, a unit of the first order of
individuality.

MONADARIA
Mon`a*da"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Monad.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Infusoria.

MONADELPHIA
Mon`a*del"phi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of plants having the stamens united into a
tube, or ring, by the filaments, as in the Mallow family.

MONADELPHIAN; MONADELPHOUS
Mon`a*del"phi*an, Mon`a*del"phous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monadelphie.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monadelphia; having the stamens united
in one body by the filaments.

MONADIC; MONADICAL
Mo*nad"ic, Mo*nad"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, a monad, in any of its senses. See
Monad, n. Dr. H. More.

MONADIFORM
Mo*nad"i*form, a. Etym: [Monad + -form.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having the form of a monad; resembling a monad in having one or
more filaments of vibratile protoplasm; as, monadiform young.

MONADOLOGY
Mon`ad*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Monad + -logy.] (Philos.)

Defn: The doctrine or theory of monads.

MONAL
Mo*nal", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any Asiatic pheasant of the genus Lophophorus, as the Impeyan
pheasant.

MONAMIDE
Mon*am"ide, n. Etym: [Mon- + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: An amido compound with only one amido group.

MONAMINE
Mon*am"ine, n. Etym: [Mon- + amine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A basic compound containing one amido group; as, methyl amine
is a monamine.

MONANDER
Mo*nan"der, n. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the Monandria.

MONANDRIA
Mo*nan"dri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of plants embracing those having but a single
stamen.

MONANDRIAN
Mo*nan"dri*an, a.; (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Monandrous.

MONANDRIC
Mo*nan"dric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to monandry; practicing monandry as a system
of marriage.

MONANDROUS
Mo*nan"drous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the monandria; having but one stamen.

MONANDRY
Mo*nan"dry, n. Etym: [See Monandria.]

Defn: The possession by a woman of only one husband at the same time;
-- contrasted with polyandry.

MONANTHOUS
Mo*nan"thous, a. Etym: [Mon- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having but one flower; one-flowered. Gray.

MONARCH
Mon"arch, n. Etym: [F. monarque, L. monarcha, fr. Gr. Archi-.]

1. A sole or supreme ruler; a sovereign; the highest ruler; an
emperor, king, queen, prince, or chief.
He who reigns Monarch in heaven, ... upheld by old repute. Milton.

2. One superior to all others of the same kind; as, an oak is called
the monarch of the forest.

3. A patron deity or presiding genius.
Come, thou, monarch of the vine, Plumpy Bacchus. Shak.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very large red and black butterfly (Danais Plexippus); --
called also milkweed butterfly.

MONARCH
Mon"arch, a.

Defn: Superior to others; preëminent; supreme; ruling. "Monarch
savage." Pope.

MONARCHAL
Mo*nar"chal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a monarch; suiting a monarch; sovoreign; regal;
imperial.
Satan, whom now transcendent glory raised Above his fellows, with
monarchal pride. Milton.

MONARCHESS
Mon"arch*ess, n.

Defn: A female monarch. [Obs.]

MONARCHIAL
Mo*nar"chi*al, a.

Defn: Monarchic. Burke.

MONARCHIAN
Mo*nar"chi*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect in the early Christian church which rejected the
doctrine of the Trinity; -- called also patripassian.

MONARCHIC; MONARCHICAL
Mo*nar"chic, Mo*nar"chic*al, a. Etym: [F. monarchique, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a monarch, or to monarchy. Burke.
 -- Mo*nar"chic*al*ly, adv.

MONARCHISM
Mon"arch*ism, n.

Defn: The principles of, or preference for, monarchy.

MONARCHIST
Mon"arch*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monarchiste.]

Defn: An advocate of, or believer in, monarchy.

MONARCHIZE
Mon"arch*ize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Monarchized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Monarchizing.]

Defn: To play the sovereign; to act the monarch. [R.] Shak.

MONARCHIZE
Mon"arch*ize, v. t.

Defn: To rule; to govern. [R.]

MONARCHIZER
Mon"arch*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who monarchizes; also, a monarchist.

MONARCHO
Mo*nar"cho, n.

Defn: The nickname of a crackbrained Italian who fancied himself an
emperor. [Obs.] Shak.

MONARCHY
Mon"arch*y, n.; pl. Monarchies. Etym: [F. monarchie, L. monarchia,
Gr. Monarch.]

1. A state or government in which the supreme power is lodged in the
hands of a monarch.

2. A system of government in which the chief ruler is a monarch.
In those days he had affected zeal for monarchy. Macaulay.

3. The territory ruled over by a monarch; a kingdom.
What scourage for perjury Can this dark monarchy afford false
Clarence. Shak.
Fifth monarchy, a universal monarchy, supposed to be the subject of
prophecy in Daniel ii.; the four preceding monarchies being Assyrian,
Persian, Grecian, and Roman. See Fifth Monarchy men, under Fifth.

MONAS
Mo"nas, n. Etym: [NL. See Monad.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of minute flagellate Infusoria of which there are many
species, both free and attached. See Illust. under Monad.

MONASTERIAL
Mon`as*te"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. monasterials, fr. monasterium.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to monastery, or to monastic life.
 -- Mon`as*te"ri*al*ly, adv.

MONASTERY
Mon"as*te*ry, n.; pl. Monasteries. Etym: [L. monasterium, Gr.
Minister.]

Defn: A house of religious retirement, or of secusion from ordinary
temporal concerns, especially for monks; -- more rarely applied to
such a house for females.

Syn.
 -- Convent; abbey; priory. See Cloister.

MONASTIC
Mo*nas"tic, n.

Defn: A monk.

MONASTIC; MONASTICAL
Mo*nas"tic, Mo*nas"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. monastique. See Monastery.]

1. Of or pertaining to monasteries, or to their occupants, rules,
etc., as, monastic institutions or rules.

2. Secluded from temporal concerns and devoted to religion; recluse.
"A life monastic." Denham.

MONASTICALLY
Mo*nas"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a monastic manner.

MONASTICISM
Mo*nas"ti*cism, n.

Defn: The monastic life, system, or condition. Milman.

MONASTICON
Mo*nas"ti*con, n. Etym: [NL. See Monastic.]

Defn: A book giving an account of monasteries.

MONATOMIC
Mon`a*tom"ic, adv. Etym: [Mon- + atomic.] (Chem.)
(a) Consisting of, or containing, one atom; as, the molecule of
mercury is monatomic.
(b) Having the equivalence or replacing power of an atom of hydrogen;
univalent; as, the methyl radical is monatomic.

MONAXIAL
Mo*nax"i*al, a. Etym: [Mon- + axial.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having only one axis; developing along a single line or plane;
as, monaxial development.

MONAZITE
Mon"a*zite, n. Etym: [From Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring usually in small isolated crystals, --
phosphate of the cerium metals.

MONDAY
Mon"day, n. Etym: [OE. moneday, monenday, AS. monandæg, i.e., day of
the moon, day sacred to the moon; akin to D. maandag, G. montag, OHG.
manatag, Icel. manadagr, Dan. mandag, Sw. måndag. See Moon, and Day.]

Defn: The second day of the week; the day following Sunday.

MONDE
Monde, n. Etym: [F. See Mundane.]

Defn: The world; a globe as an ensign of royalty. [R.] A. Drummond.
Le beau monde Etym: [F.], fashionable society. See Beau monde.
 -- Demi monde. See Demimonde.

MONE
Mone, n.

Defn: The moon. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MONE
Mone, n.

Defn: A moan. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MONECIAN; MONECIOUS
Mo*ne"cian, Mo*ne"cious, a. (Bot.)

Defn: See Monoecian, and Monoecious.

MONEMBRYONY
Mon*em"bry*o*ny, n. Etym: [See Mono-, and Embryo.] (Bot.)

Defn: The condition of an ovule having but a single embryo.
 -- Mon*em`bry*on"ic, a.

MONER
Mo"ner, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Monera.

MONERA
Mo*ne"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lowest division of rhizopods, including those which
resemble the amoebas, but are destitute of a nucleus.

MONERAL
Mo*ne"ral, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monera.

MONERAN
Mo*ne"ran, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monera.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Monera.

MONERON
Mo*ne"ron, n.; pl. L. Monera; E. Monerons. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Monera.

MONERULA
Mo*ner"u*la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of moner. See Monera.] (Biol.)

Defn: A germ in that stage of development in which its form is simply
that of a non-nucleated mass of protoplasm. It precedes the one-
celled germ. So called from its likeness to a moner. Haeckel.

MONESIA
Mo*ne"sia, n. (Pharm.)

Defn: The bark, or a vegetable extract brought in solid cakes from
South America and believed to be derived from the bark, of the tree
Chrysophyllum glycyphloeum. It is used as an alterative and
astringent.

MONESIN
Mo*ne"sin, n.

Defn: The acrid principle of Monesia, sometimes used as a medicine.

MONEST
Mo*nest", v. t. Etym: [See Admonish.]

Defn: To warn; to admonish; to advise. [Obs.] Wyclif (2 Cor. v. 20).

MONETARY
Mon"e*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. monetarius belonging to a mint. See Money.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to money, or consisting of money; pecuniary.
"The monetary relations of Europe." E. Everett. Monetary unit, the
standard of a national currency, as the dollar in the United States,
the pound in England, the franc in France, the mark in Germany.

MONETH
Mon"eth, n.

Defn: A month. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MONETIZATION
Mon`e*ti*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of converting into money, or of adopting as
money; as, the monetization of silver.

MONETIZE
Mon"e*tize, v. t.

Defn: To convert into money; to adopt as current money; as, to
monetize silver.

MONEY
Mon"ey, n.; pl. Moneys. Etym: [OE. moneie, OF. moneie, F. monnaie,
fr. L. moneta. See Mint place where coin is made, Mind, and cf.
Moidore, Monetary.]

1. A piece of metal, as gold, silver, copper, etc., coined, or
stamped, and issued by the sovereign authority as a medium of
exchange in financial transactions between citizens and with
government; also, any number of such pieces; coin.
To prevent such abuses, ... it has been found necessary ... to affix
a public stamp upon certain quantities of such particular metals, as
were in those countries commonly made use of to purchase goods. Hence
the origin of coined money, and of those public offices called mints.
A. Smith.

2. Any written or stamped promise, certificate, or order, as a
government note, a bank note, a certificate of deposit, etc., which
is payable in standard coined money and is lawfully current in lieu
of it; in a comprehensive sense, any currency usually and lawfully
employed in buying and selling.

Note: Whatever, among barbarous nations, is used as a medium of
effecting exchanges of property, and in the terms of which values are
reckoned, as sheep, wampum, copper rings, quills of salt or of gold
dust, shovel blades, etc., is, in common language, called their
money.

3. In general, wealth; property; as, he has much money in land, or in
stocks; to make, or lose, money.
The love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. 1 Tim vi. 10 (Rev.
Ver. ).
Money bill (Legislation), a bill for raising revenue.
 -- Money broker, a broker who deals in different kinds of money; one
who buys and sells bills of exchange; -- called also money changer.
 -- Money cowrie (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Cypræa (esp.
C. moneta) formerly much used as money by savage tribes. See Cowrie.
 -- Money of account, a denomination of value used in keeping
accounts, for which there may, or may not, be an equivalent coin;
e.g., the mill is a money of account in the United States, but not a
coin.
 -- Money order, an order for the payment of money; specifically, a
government order for the payment of money, issued at one post office
as payable at another; -- called also postal money order.
 -- Money scrivener, a person who produces the loan of money to
others. [Eng.] -- Money spider, Money spinner (Zoöl.), a small
spider; -- so called as being popularly supposed to indicate that the
person upon whom it crawls will be fortunate in money matters.
 -- Money's worth, a fair or full equivalent for the money which is
paid.
 -- A piece of money, a single coin.
 -- Ready money, money held ready for payment, or actually paid, at
the time of a transaction; cash.
 -- To make money, to gain or acquire money or property; to make a
profit in dealings.

MONEY
Mon"ey, v. t.

Defn: To supply with money. [Obs.]

MONEYAGE
Mon"ey*age, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monnayage coinage.]

1. A tax paid to the first two Norman kings of England to prevent
them from debashing the coin. Hume.

2. Mintage; coinage. [Obs.]

MONEYED
Mon"eyed, adv.

1. Supplied with money; having money; wealthy; as, moneyey men.
Bacon.

2. Converted into money; coined.
If exportation will not balance importation, away must your silver go
again, whether moneyed or not moneyed. Locke.

3. Consisting in, or composed of, money. A. Hamilton.

MONEYER
Mon"ey*er, n. Etym: [From Money; cf. OF. monoier, F. monnoayeur, L.
monetarius a master of the mint. Cf. Monetary.]

1. A person who deals in money; banker or broker. [Obs. or R.]

2. An authorized coiner of money. Sir M. Hale. The Company of
Moneyers, the officials who formerly coined the money of Great
Britain, and who claimed certain prescriptive rights and privileges.

MONEYLESS
Mon"ey*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of money; penniless; impecunious. Swift.

MONEY-MAKER
Mon"ey-mak`er, n.

1. One who coins or prints money; also, a counterfeiter of money.
[R.]

2. One who accumulates money or wealth; specifically, one who makes
money-getting his governing motive.

MONEY-MAKING
Mon"ey-mak`ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of making money; the acquisition and
accumulation of wealth.
Obstinacy in money-making. Milman.

MONEY-MAKING
Mon"ey-mak`ing, a.

1. Affording profitable returns; lucrative; as, a money-making
business.

2. Sussessful in gaining money, and devoted to that aim; as, a money-
making man.

MONEYWORT
Mon"ey*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A trailing plant (Lysimachia Nummularia), with rounded opposite
leaves and solitary yellow flowers in their axils.

MONGCORN
Mong"corn`, n.

Defn: See Mangcorn.

MONGER
Mon"ger, n. Etym: [AS. mangere, fr. mangian to trade; akin to Icel.
manga to trade, mangari a trader, OHG. mangari, mengari; cf. L. mango
a dealer in slaves.]

1. A trader; a dealer; -- now used chiefly in composition; as,
fishmonger, ironmonger, newsmonger.

2. A small merchant vessel. [Obs.] Blount.

MONGER
Mon"ger, v. t.

Defn: To deal in; to make merchandise of; to traffic in; -- used
chiefly of discreditable traffic.

MONGOL
Mon"gol, n.

Defn: One of the Mongols.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Mongolia or the Mongols.

MONGOLIAN
Mon*go"li*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Mongolia or the Mongols.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Mongols.

MONGOLIC
Mon*gol"ic, a.

Defn: See Mongolian.

MONGOLOID
Mon"go*loid, a. Etym: [Mongol + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling a Mongol or the Mongols; having race
characteristics, such as color, hair, and features, like those of the
Mongols. Huxley.

MONGOLS; MONGOLIANS
Mon"gols, Mon*go"li*ans, n. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of the great races of man, including the greater part of
the inhabitants of China, Japan, and the interior of Asia, with
branches in Northern Europe and other parts of the world. By some
American Indians are considered a branch of the Mongols. In a more
restricted sense, the inhabitants of Mongolia and adjacent countries,
including the Burats and the Kalmuks.

MONGOOSE; MONGOOS
Mon"goose, Mon"goos, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of ichneumon (Herpestes griseus), native of India.
Applied also to other allied species, as the African banded mongoose
(Crossarchus fasciatus). [Written also mungoose, mungoos, mungous.]

MONGREL
Mon"grel, n. Etym: [Prob. shortened fr. mongrel, and akin to AS.
mengan to mix, and E. mingle. See Mingle.]

Defn: The progeny resulting from a cross between two breeds, as of
domestic animals; anything of mixed breed. Drayton.

MONGREL
Mon"grel, a.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Not of a pure breed.

2. Of mixed kinds; as, mongrel language.

MONGRELIZE
Mon"grel*ize, v. t. & i.

Defn: To cause to be mongrel; to cross breeds, so as to produce
mongrels.

'MONGST
'Mongst, prep.

Defn: See Amongst.

MONIED
Mon"ied, a.

Defn: See Moneyed.

MONIFIER
Mo*nif"i*er, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. monile necklace + ferre to bear.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil fish.

MONILIALES
Mo*nil`i*a"les, n. pl. [NL., fr. L. monile necklace, -- because the
conidia are produced in chains.] (Bot.)

Defn: The largest of the three orders into which the Fungi Imperfecti
are divided, including various forms.

MONILIFORM
Mo*nil"i*form, a. Etym: [L. monile necklace + -form: cf. F.
moniliforme.] (Biol.)

Defn: Joined or constricted, at regular intervals, so as to resemble
a string of beads; as, a moniliform root; a moniliform antenna. See
Illust. of Antenna.

MONIMENT
Mon"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. monimentum, monumentum. See Monument.]

Defn: Something to preserve memory; a reminder; a monument; hence, a
mark; an image; a superscription; a record. [Obs.] Spenser.

MONISH
Mon"ish, v. t. Etym: [OE. monesten. See Admonish, Monition.]

Defn: To admonish; to warn. See Admonish. [Archaic] Ascham.

MONISHER
Mon"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who monishes; an admonisher. [Archaic]

MONISHMENT
Mon"ish*ment, n.

Defn: Admonition. [Archaic]

MONISM
Mon"ism, n. Etym: [From Gr.

1. (Metaph.)

Defn: That doctrine which refers all phenomena to a single ultimate
constituent or agent; -- the opposite of dualism.

Note: The doctrine has been held in three generic forms: matter and
its phenomena have been explained as a modification of mind,
involving an idealistic monism; or mind has been explained by and
resolved into matter, giving a materialistic monism; or, thirdly,
matter, mind, and their phenomena have been held to be manifestations
or modifications of some one substance, like the substance of
Spinoza, or a supposed unknown something of some evolutionists, which
is capable of an objective and subjective aspect.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: See Monogenesis, 1.

MONIST
Mon"ist, n.

Defn: A believer in monism.

MONISTIC
Mo*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or involving, monism.

MONITION
Mo*ni"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. monitio, from monere to warn, bring
to mind; akin to E. mind. See Mind, and cf. Admonish, Money,
Monster.]

1. Instruction or advice given by way of caution; an admonition; a
warning; a caution.
Sage monitions from his friends. Swift.

2. Information; indication; notice; advice.
We have no visible monition of ... other periods, such as we have of
the day by successive light and darkness. Holder.

3. (Admiralty Practice)

Defn: A process in the nature of a summons to appear and answer.

4. (Eccl. Law)

Defn: An order monishing a party complained against to obey under
pain of the law. Shipley.

MONITIVE
Mon"i*tive, a.

Defn: Conveying admonition; admonitory. Barrow.

MONITOR
Mon"i*tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. monere. See Monition, and cf. Mentor.]

1. One who admonishes; one who warns of faults, informs of duty, or
gives advice and instruction by way of reproof or caution.
You need not be a monitor to the king. Bacon.

2. Hence, specifically, a pupil selected to look to the school in the
absence of the instructor, to notice the absence or faults of the
scholars, or to instruct a division or class.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any large Old World lizard of the genus Varanus; esp., the
Egyptian species (V. Niloticus), which is useful because it devours
the eggs and young of the crocodile. It is sometimes five or six feet
long.

4. Etym: [So called from the name given by Captain Ericson, its
designer, to the first ship of the kind.]

Defn: An ironclad war vessel, very low in the water, and having one
or more heavily-armored revolving turrets, carrying heavy guns.

5. (Mach.)

Defn: A tool holder, as for a lathe, shaped like a low turret, and
capable of being revolved on a vertical pivot so as to bring
successively the several tools in holds into proper position for
cutting. Monitor top, the raised central portion, or clearstory, of a
car roof, having low windows along its sides.

MONITORIAL
Mon`i*to"ri*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a monitor or monitors.

2. Done or performed by a monitor; as, monitorial work; conducted or
taught by monitors; as, a monitorial school; monitorial instruction.

MONITORIALLY
Mon`i*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a monitorial manner.

MONITOR NOZZLE
Monitor nozzle.

Defn: A nozzle capable of turning completely round in a horizontal
plane and having a limited play in a vertical plane, used in
hydraulic mining, fire-extinguishing apparatus, etc.

MONITORSHIP
Mon"i*tor*ship, n.

Defn: The post or office of a monitor.

MONITORY
Mon"i*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. monitorius.]

Defn: Giving admonition; instructing by way of caution; warning.
Losses, miscarriages, and disappointments, are monitory and
instructive. L'Estrange.

MONITORY
Mon"i*to*ry, n.

Defn: Admonition; warning; especially, a monition proceeding from an
ecclesiastical court, but not addressed to any one person.

MONITRESS; MONITRIX
Mon"i*tress, Mon"i*trix, n.

Defn: A female monitor.

MONK
Monk, n. Etym: [AS. munuc, munec, munc, L. monachus, Gr. Monachism.]

1. A man who retires from the ordinary temporal concerns of the
world, and devotes himself to religion; one of a religious community
of men inhabiting a monastery, and bound by vows to a life of
chastity, obedience, and poverty. "A monk out of his cloister."
Chaucer.
Monks in some respects agree with regulars, as in the substantial
vows of religion; but in other respects monks and regulars differ;
for that regulars, vows excepted, are not tied up to so strict a rule
of life as monks are. Ayliffe.

2. (Print.)

Defn: A blotch or spot of ink on a printed page, caused by the ink
not being properly distributed. It is distinguished from a friar, or
white spot caused by a deficiency of ink.

3. A piece of tinder made of agaric, used in firing the powder hose
or train of a mine.

4. (Zoöl.)
(a) A South American monkey (Pithecia monachus); also applied to
other species, as Cebus xanthocephalus.
(b) The European bullfinch. Monk bat (Zoöl.), a South American and
West Indian bat (Molossus nasutus); -- so called because the males
live in communities by themselves.
 -- Monk bird(Zoöl.), the friar bird.
 -- Monk seal (Zoöl.), a species of seal (Monachus albiventer)
inhabiting the Black Sea, the Mediterranean Sea, and the adjacent
parts of the Atlantic.
 -- Monk's rhubarb (Bot.), a kind of dock; -- also called patience
(Rumex Patientia).

MONKERY
Monk"er*y, n.; pl. Monkeries (.

1. The life of monks; monastic life; monastic usage or customs; --
now usually applied by way of reproach.
Miters, and wretched dead mediæval monkeries. Carlyle.

2. A collective body of monks. [Obs.]
Though he have a whole monkery to sing for him. Latimer.

MONKEY
Mon"key, n.; pl. Monkeys. Etym: [Cf. OIt. monicchio, It. monnino,
dim. of monna an ape, also dame, mistress, contr. fr. madonna. See
Madonna.]

1. (Zoöl.)
(a) In the most general sense, any one of the Quadrumana, including
apes, baboons, and lemurs.
(b) Any species of Quadrumana, except the lemurs.
(c) Any one of numerous species of Quadrumana (esp. such as have a
long tail and prehensile feet) exclusive of apes and baboons.

Note: The monkeys are often divided into three groups: (a)
Catarrhines, or Simidæ. These have an oblong head, with the oblique
flat nostrils near together. Some have no tail, as the apes. All
these are natives of the Old World. (b) Platyrhines, or Cebidæ. These
have a round head, with a broad nasal septum, so that the nostrils
are wide apart and directed downward. The tail is often prehensile,
and the thumb is short and not opposable. These are natives of the
New World. (c) Strepsorhines, or Lemuroidea. These have a pointed
head with curved nostrils. They are natives of Southern Asia, Africa,
and Madagascar.

2. A term of disapproval, ridicule, or contempt, as for mischievous
child.
This is the monkey's own giving out; she is persuaded I will marry
her. Shak.

3. The weight or hammer of a pile driver, that is, a very heavy mass
of iron, which, being raised on high, falls on the head of the pile,
and drives it into the earth; the falling weight of a drop hammer
used in forging.

4. A small trading vessel of the sixteenth century. Monkey boat.
(Naut.) (a) A small boat used in docks. (b) A half-decked boat used
on the River Thames.
 -- Monkey block (Naut.), a small single block strapped with a
swivel. R. H. Dana, Jr.
 -- Monkey flower (Bot.), a plant of the genus Mimulus; -- so called
from the appearance of its gaping corolla. Gray.
 -- Monkey gaff (Naut.), a light gaff attached to the topmast for the
better display of signals at sea.
 -- Monkey jacket, a short closely fitting jacket, worn by sailors.
 -- Monkey rail (Naut.), a second and lighter rail raised about six
inches above the quarter rail of a ship.
 -- Monkey shine, monkey trick. [Slang, U.S.] -- Monkey trick, a
mischievous prank. Saintsbury.
 -- Monkey wheel. See Gin block, under 5th Gin.
 -- Monkey wrench, a wrench or spanner having a movable jaw.

MONKEY
Mon"key, v. t. & i.

Defn: To act or treat as a monkey does; to ape; to act in a grotesque
or meddlesome manner. To monkey with, to handle in a meddlesome
manner. [Colloq.]

MONKEY-BREAD
Mon"key-bread`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of the Adansonia digitata; also, the tree. See
Adansonia.

MONKEY-CUP
Mon"key-cup`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Nepenthes.

MONKEY-POT
Mon"key-pot`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The fruit of two South American trees (Lecythis Ollaria, and L.
Zabucajo), which have for their fruit large, pot-shaped, woody
capsules containing delicious nuts, and opening almost explosively by
a circular lid at the top. Vases and pots are made of this capsule.

MONKEY'S PUZZLE
Mon"key's puz"zle. (Bot.)

Defn: A lofty coniferous Chilian tree (Araucaria imbricata), the
branches of which are so crowded and intertwisted "as to puzzle a
monkey to climb." The edible nuts are over an inch long, and are
called piñon by the Chilians.

MONKEYTAIL
Mon"key*tail`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A short, round iron bar or lever used in naval gunnery. Totten.

MONKFISH
Monk"fish, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The angel fish (Squatina).
(b) The angler (Lophius).

MONKFLOWER
Monk"flow`er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name of certain curious orchids which bear three kinds of
flowers formerly referred to three genera, but now ascertained to be
sexually different forms of the same genus (Catasetum tridentatum,
etc.).

MONKHOOD
Monk"hood, n. Etym: [Monk + -hood.]

1. The character or condition of a monk. Atterbury.

2. Monks, regarded collectively. Longfellow.

MONKING
Monk"ing, a.

Defn: Monkish. [R.] Coleridge.

MONKISH
Monk"ish, a.

Defn: Like a monk, or pertaining to monks; monastic; as, monkish
manners; monkish dress; monkish solitude.
 -- Monk"ish*ness, n.

MONKLY
Monk"ly, a.

Defn: Like, or suitable to, a monk. [R.]

MONKSHOOD
Monks"hood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Aconitum; aconite. See Aconite.

MONK'S SEAM
Monk's" seam`. (Naut.)

Defn: An extra middle seam made at the junction of two breadths of
canvas, ordinarily joined by only two rows of stitches.

MONO-; MON-
Mon"o-, Mon-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A prefix signifying one, single, alone; as, monocarp, monopoly;
(Chem.) indicating that a compound contains one atom, radical, or
group of that to the name of which it is united; as, monoxide,
monosulphide, monatomic, etc.

MONO
Mo"no, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The black howler of Central America (Mycetes villosus).

MONOBASIC
Mon`o*ba"sic, a. Etym: [Mono- + basic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Capable of being neutralized by a univalent base or basic
radical; having but one acid hydrogen atom to be replaced; -- said of
acids; as, acetic, nitric, and hydrochloric acids are monobasic.

MONOCARBONIC
Mon`o*car*bon"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + carbonic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Containing one carboxyl group; as, acetic acid is a
monocarbonic acid.

MONOCARDIAN
Mon`o*car"di*an, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a single heart, as fishes and amphibians.
 -- n.

Defn: An animal having a single heart.

MONOCARP
Mon"o*carp, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A monocarpic plant.

MONOCARPELLARY
Mon`o*car"pel*la*ry, a. Etym: [Mono- + carpellary.] (Bot.)

Defn: Consisting of a single carpel, as the fruit of the pea, cherry,
and almond.

MONOCARPIC; MONOCARPOUS
Mon`o*car"pic, Mon`o*car"pous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monocarpe.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Bearing fruit but once, and dying after fructification, as
beans, maize, mustard, etc.

Note: Annual and biennual herbs are monocarpic, so also some plants
of longer duration, as the century plant.

MONOCEPHALOUS
Mon`o*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a solitary head; -- said of unbranched composite plants.

MONOCEROS
Mo*noc"e*ros, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A one-horned creature; a unicorn; a sea monster with one horn.
Mighty monoceroses with immeasured tails. Spenser.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The Unicorn, a constellation situated to the east Orion.

MONOCHLAMYDEOUS
Mon`o*chla*myd"e*ous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monochlamydé.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having a single floral envelope, that is, a calyx without a
corolla, or, possibly, in rare cases, a corolla without a calyx.

MONOCHORD
Mon"o*chord, n. Etym: [L. monochordon, Gr. monocorde. See Chord, and
cf. Mainchord.] (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument for experimenting upon the mathematical relations
of musical sounds. It consists of a single string stretched between
two bridges, one or both of which are movable, and which stand upon a
graduated rule for the purpose of readily changing and measuring the
length of the part of the string between them.

MONOCHROMATIC
Mon`o*chro*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monochromatique. See Monochrome.]

Defn: Consisting of one color, or presenting rays of light of one
color only. Monochromatic lamp (Opt.),a lamp whose flame yields rays
of some one homogenous light. It is of great importance in optical
experiments.

MONOCHROME
Mon"o*chrome, n. Etym: [Gr. monochrome.]

Defn: A painting or drawing in a single color; a picture made with a
single color.

MONOCHROMIC
Mon`o*chro"mic, a.

Defn: Made, or done, with a single color; as, a monochromic picture.

MONOCHROMY
Mon"o*chro`my, n.

Defn: The art of painting or drawing in monochrome.

MONOCHRONIC
Mon`o*chron"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

Defn: Existing at the same time; contemporaneous.

MONOCILIATED
Mon`o*cil"i*a`ted, a. Etym: [Mono- + ciliated.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having but one cilium.

MONOCLE
Mon"o*cle, n. Etym: [F. See Monocular.]

Defn: An eyeglass for one eye. Simmonds.

MONOCLINAL
Mon`o*cli"nal, a. Etym: [See Monoclinic.] (Geol.)

Defn: Having one oblique inclination; -- applied to strata that dip
in only one direction from the axis of elevation.

MONOCLINE
Mon"o*cline, n. (Geol.)

Defn: A monoclinal fold.

MONOCLINIC
Mon`o*clin"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Having one oblique intersection; -- said of that system of
crystallization in which the vertical axis is inclined to one, but at
right angles to the other, lateral axis. See Crystallization.

MONOCLINOUS
Mo*noc"li*nous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monocline.] (Bot.)

Defn: Hermaphrodite, or having both stamens and pistils in every
flower.

MONOCONDYLA
Mon`o*con"dy*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Mono-, and Condyle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of vertebrates, including the birds and reptiles, or
those that have only one occipital condyle; the Sauropsida.

MONOCOTYL
Mon"o*co*tyl, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any monocotyledonous plant.

MONOCOTYLE
Mon"o*co*tyle, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monocotyle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Monocotyledonous.

MONOCOTYLEDON
Mon`o*cot`y*le"don, n. Etym: [Mono- + cotyledon: cf. F.
monocotylédone.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant with only one cotyledon, or seed lobe.

Note: The plural, monocotyledons, is used as the name of a large
class of plants, and is generally understood to be equivalent to the
term endogens.

MONOCOTYLEDONOUS
Mon`o*cot`y*le"don*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monocotylédoné.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having only one cotyledon, seed lobe, or seminal leaf. Lindley.

MONOCRACY
Mo*noc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Mono- + -cracy, as in democracy.]

Defn: Government by a single person; undivided rule. Sydney Smith.

MONOCRAT
Mon"o*crat, n. Etym: [Cf. Gr.

Defn: One who governs alone.

MONOCROTIC
Mon`o*crot"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or showing, monocrotism; as, a monocrotic
pulse; a pulse of the monocrotic type.

MONOCROTISM
Mo*noc"ro*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: That condition of the pulse in which the pulse curve or
sphygmogram shows but a single crest, the dicrotic elevation entirely
disappearing.

MONOCULAR
Mo*noc"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. monoculus; Gr. oculus eye: cf. F.
monoculaire.]

1. Having only one eye; with one eye only; as, monocular vision.

2. Adapted to be used with only one eye at a time; as, a monocular
microscope.

MONOCULE
Mon"o*cule, n. Etym: [See Monocular.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small crustacean with one median eye.

MONOCULOUS
Mo*noc"u*lous, a.

Defn: Monocular. Glanvill.

MONOCYSTIC
Mon`o*cys"tic, a. Etym: [See Mono-, and Cyst.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a division (Monocystidea) of Gregarinida,
in which the body consists of one sac.

MONODACTYLOUS
Mon`o*dac"tyl*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. monodactyle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having but one finger or claw.

MONODELPH; MONODELPHIAN
Mon"o*delph, Mon`o*del"phi*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Monodelphia.

MONODELPHIA
Mon`o*del"phi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The group that includes all ordinary or placental mammals; the
Placentalia. See Mammalia.

MONODELPHIC; MONODELPHOUS
Mon`o*del"phic, Mon`o*del"phous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monodelphia.

MONODIC; MONODICAL
Mo*nod"ic, Mo*nod"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Belonging to a monody.

2. (Mus.)
(a) For one voice; monophonic.
(b) Homophonic; -- applied to music in which the melody is confined
to one part, instead of being shared by all the parts as in the style
called polyphonic.

MONODIMETRIC
Mon`o*di*met"ric, a. Etym: [Mono- + dimetric.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: Dimetric.

MONODIST
Mon"o*dist, n.

Defn: A writer of a monody.

MONODRAMA; MONODRAME
Mon"o*dra`ma, Mon"o*drame, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

Defn: A drama acted, or intended to be acted, by a single person.

MONODRAMATIC
Mon`o*dra*mat"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a monodrama.

MONODY
Mon"o*dy, n.; pl. Monodies. Etym: [L. monodia, Gr. monodie. See Ode.]

Defn: A species of poem of a mournful character, in which a single
mourner expresses lamentation; a song for one voice.

MONODYNAMIC
Mon`o*dy*nam"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + dynamic.]

Defn: Possessing but one capacity or power. "Monodynamic men." De
Quincey.

MONODYNAMISM
Mon`o*dy"na*mism, n.

Defn: The theory that the various forms of activity in nature are
manifestations of the same force. G. H. Lewes.

MONOECIA
Mo*noe"ci*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of plants, whose stamens and pistils are in
distinct flowers in the same plant.

MONOECIAN
Mo*noe"cian, a.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monoecia; monoecious.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Monoecia.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A monoecious animal, as certain mollusks.

MONOECIOUS
Mo*noe"cious, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Having the sexes united in one individual, as when male and
female flowers grow upon the same individual plant; hermaphrodite; --
opposed to Ant: dioecious.

MONOECISM
Mo*noe"cism, n. (Biol.)

Defn: The state or condition of being monoecious.

MONOGAM
Mon"o*gam, n. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the Monogamia.

MONOGAMIA
Mon`o*ga"mi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Monogamous.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan order of plants, having solitary flowers with united
anthers, as in the genus Lobelia.

MONOGAMIAN; MONOGAMIC
Mon`o*ga"mi*an, Mon`o*gam"ic, a. Etym: [See Monogamous.]

1. Pertaining to, or involving, monogamy.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monogamia; having a simple flower with
united anthers.

MONOGAMIST
Mo*nog"a*mist, n.

Defn: One who practices or upholds monogamy. Goldsmith.

MONOGAMOUS
Mo*nog"a*mous, a. Etym: [L. monogamus having but one wife, Gr.

1. Upholding, or practicing, monogamy.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Monogamian.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Mating with but one of the opposite sex; -- said of birds and
mammals.

MONOGAMY
Mo*nog"a*my, n. Etym: [L. monogamia, Gr. monogamie.]

1. Single marriage; marriage with but one person, husband or wife, at
the same time; -- opposed to polygamy. Also, one marriage only during
life; -- opposed to deuterogamy.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: State of being paired with a single mate.

MONOGASTRIC
Mon`o*gas"tric, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

Defn: Having but a single stomach.

MONOGENESIS
Mon`o*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Mono- + genesis.]

1. Oneness of origin; esp. (Biol.), development of all beings in the
universe from a single cell; -- opposed to polygenesis. Called also
monism. Dana. Haeckel.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: That form of reproduction which requires but one parent, as in
reproduction by fission or in the formation of buds, etc., which drop
off and form new individuals; asexual reproduction. Haeckel.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: The direct development of an embryo, without metamorphosis,
into an organism similar to the parent organism; -- opposed to
metagenesis. E. van Beneden.

MONOGENETIC
Mon`o*ge*net"ic, a. Etym: [See Monogenesis.]

1. (Geol.)

Defn: One in genesis; resulting from one process of formation; --
used of a mountain range. Dana.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to, or involving, monogenesis; as, the monogenetic
school of physiologists, who admit but one cell as the source of all
beings.

MONOGENIC
Mon`o*gen"ic, a.

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to monogenesis.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Producing only one kind of germs, or young; developing only in
one way.

MONOGENISM
Mo*nog"e*nism, n. (Anthropol.)

Defn: The theory or doctrine that the human races have a common
origin, or constitute a single species.

MONOGENIST
Mo*nog"e*nist, n. (Anthropol.)

Defn: One who maintains that the human races are all of one species;
-- opposed to polygenist.

MONOGENISTIC
Mon`o*ge*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Monogenic.

MONOGENOUS
Mo*nog"e*nous, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to monogenesis; as, monogenous, or asexual,
reproduction.

MONOGENY
Mo*nog"e*ny, n.

1. Monogenesis.

2. (Anthropol.)

Defn: The doctrine that the members of the human race have all a
common origin.

MONOGONEUTIC
Mon`o*go*neu"tic, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having but one brood in a season.

MONOGRAM
Mon"o*gram, n. Etym: [L. monogramma; Gr. monogramme. See Graphic.]

1. A character or cipher composed of two or more letters interwoven
or combined so as to represent a name, or a part of it (usually the
initials). Monograms are often used on seals, ornamental pins, rings,
buttons, and by painters, engravers, etc., to distinguish their
works. Monogram.

Note: The monogram above, combining the letters of the name Karolvs,
was used by Charlemagne.

2. A picture in lines; a sketch. [R.]

3. An arbitrary sign for a word. [R.]

MONOGRAMMAL
Mon"o*gram`mal, a.

Defn: See Monogrammic.

MONOGRAMMATIC
Mon`o*gram*mat"ic, a.

Defn: Monogrammic.

MONOGRAMMIC
Mon`o*gram"mic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a monogram.

MONOGRAMMOUS
Mon"o*gram`mous, a.

Defn: Monogrammic.

MONOGRAPH
Mon"o*graph, n. Etym: [Mono- + -graph.]

Defn: A written account or description of a single thing, or class of
things; a special treatise on a particular subject of limited range.

MONOGRAPHER
Mo*nog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: A writer of a monograph.

MONOGRAPHIC; MONOGRAPHICAL
Mon`o*graph"ic, Mon`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a monograph, or to a monography; as, a
monographic writing; a monographic picture.
 -- Mon`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

MONOGRAPHIST
Mo*nog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: One who writes a monograph.

MONOGRAPHOUS
Mo*nog"ra*phous, a.

Defn: Monographic. [Obs.]

MONOGRAPHY
Mo*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Mono- + -graphy: cf. F. monographie.]

1. Representation by lines without color; an outline drawing.

2. A monograph. [Obs.]

MONOGYN
Mon"o*gyn, n. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the Monogynia.

MONOGYNIA
Mon`o*gyn"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan order of plants, including those which have only one
style or stigma.

MONOGYNIAN
Mon`o*gyn"i*an, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Monogynia; monogynous.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Monogynia.

MONOGYNOUS
Mo*nog"y*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monogyne.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Monogynia; having only one style or stigma.

MONOGYNY
Mo*nog"y*ny, n. Etym: [See Monogynia.]

1. Marriage with the one woman only.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The state or condition of being monogynous.

MONOHEMEROUS
Mon`o*hem"er*ous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Lasting but one day.

MONOICOUS
Mo*noi"cous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Monoecious.

MONOLATRY
Mo*nol"a*try, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

Defn: Worship of a single deity.

MONOLITH
Mon"o*lith, n. Etym: [F. monolithe, L. monolithus consisting of a
single stone, Gr.

Defn: A single stone, especially one of large size, shaped into a
pillar, statue, or monument.

MONOLITHAL
Mon"o*lith`al, a.

Defn: Monolithic.

MONOLITHIC
Mon`o*lith"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a monolith; consisting of a single stone.

MONOLOGIST
Mo*nol"o*gist, n. Etym: [See Monologue.]

Defn: One who soliloquizes; esp., one who monopolizes conversation in
company. De Quincey.

MONOLOGUE
Mon"o*logue, n. Etym: [F. monologue, Gr. Legend.]

1. A speech uttered by a person alone; soliloquy; also, talk or
discourse in company, in the strain of a soliloquy; as, an account in
monologue. Dryden.

2. A dramatic composition for a single performer.

MONOLOGY
Mo*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The habit of soliloquizing, or of monopolizing conversation.
It was not by an insolent usurpation that Coleridge persisted in
monology through his whole life. De Quincey.

MONOMACHIA; MONOMACHY
Mon`o*ma"chi*a, Mo*nom"a*chy, n. Etym: [L. monomachia, Gr.

Defn: A duel; single combat. "The duello or monomachia." Sir W.
Scott.

MONOMACHIST
Mo*nom"a*chist, n.

Defn: One who fights in single combat; a duelist.

MONOMANE
Mon"o*mane, n.

Defn: A monomaniac. [R.]

MONOMANIA
Mon`o*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Mono- + mania.]

Defn: Derangement of the mind in regard of a single subject only;
also, such a concentration of interest upon one particular subject or
train of ideas to show mental derangement.

Syn.
 -- Insanity; madness; alienation; aberration; derangement; mania.
See Insanity.

MONOMANIAC
Mon`oma"ni*ac, n.

Defn: A person affected by monomania.

MONOMANIAC; MONOMANIACAL
Mon`oma"ni*ac, Mon`oma"ni*a*cal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monomaniaque.]

Defn: Affected with monomania, or partial derangement of intellect;
caused by, or resulting from, monomania; as, a monomaniacal delusion.

MONOME
Mon"ome, n. Etym: [F., fr. Gr. -nome as in binome. See Binomial.]
(Math.)

Defn: A monomial.

MONOMEROUS
Mo*nom"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Composed of solitary parts, as a flower with one sepal, one
petal, one stamen, and one pistil.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having but one joint; -- said of the foot of certain insects.

MONOMETALLIC
Mon`o*me*tal"lic, a.

Defn: Consisting of one metal; of or pertaining to monometallism.

MONOMETALLISM
Mon`o*met"al*lism, n. Etym: [Mono- + metal.]

Defn: The legalized use of one metal only, as gold, or silver, in the
standard currency of a country, or as a standard of money values. See
Bimetallism.

MONOMETALLIST
Mon`o*met"al*list, n.

Defn: One who believes in monometallism as opposed to bimetallism,
etc.

MONOMETER
Mo*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A rhythmic series, consisting of a single meter.

MONOMETRIC
Mon`o*met"ric, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monométrique.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: Same as Isometric.

MONOMIAL
Mo*no"mi*al, n. Etym: [See Monome, Binomial.] (Alg.)

Defn: A single algebraic expression; that is, an expression
unconnected with any other by the sign of addition, substraction,
equality, or inequality.

MONOMIAL
Mo*no"mi*al, a. (Alg.)

Defn: Consisting of but a single term or expression.

MONOMORPHIC; MONOMORPHOUS
Mon`o*mor"phic, Mon`o*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Having but a single form; retaining the same form throughout
the various stages of development; of the same or of an essentially
similar type of structure; -- opposed to dimorphic, trimorphic, and
polymorphic.

MONOMPHALUS
Mo*nom"pha*lus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A form of double monster, in which two individuals are united
by a common umbilicus.

MONOMYA; MONOMYARIA
Mo*no"my*a, Mon`o*my*a"ri*a, n.pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of lamellibranchs having but one muscle for closing
the shell, as the oyster.

MONOMYARIAN; MONOMYARY
Mon`o*my"a*ri*an, Mon`o*my"a*ry, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monomya.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Monomya.

MONONOMIAL
Mon`o*no"mi*al, n. & a.

Defn: Monomyal.

MONOOUSIAN; MONOOUSIOUS
Mon`o*ou"si*an, Mon`o*ou"si*ous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Theil.)

Defn: Having but one and the same nature or essence.

MONOPATHY
Mo*nop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Suffering or sensibility in a single organ or function.
 -- Mon`o*path"ic, a.

MONOPERSONAL
Mon`o*per"son*al, a. Etym: [Mono- + personal.]

Defn: Having but one person, or form of existence.

MONOPETALOUS
Mon`o*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Mono- + petal: cf. F. monopétale.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having only one petal, or the corolla in one piece, or composed
of petals cohering so as to form a tube or bowl; gamopetalous.

Note: The most recent authors restrict this form to flowers having a
solitary petal, as in species of Amorpha, and use gamopetalous for a
corolla of several petals combined into one piece. See Illust. of
Gamopetalous.

MONOPHANOUS
Mo*noph"a*nous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

Defn: Having one the same appearance; having a mutual resemblance.

MONOPHONIC
Mon`o*phon"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Mus.)

Defn: Single-voiced; having but one part; as, a monophonic
composition; -- opposed to Ant: polyphonic.

MONOPHTHONG
Mon"oph*thong, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A single uncompounded vowel sound.

2. A combination of two written vowels pronounced as one; a digraph.

MONOPHTHONGAL
Mon`oph*thon"gal, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or pertaining to, a monophthong.

MONOPHYLETIC
Mon`o*phy*let"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a single family or stock, or to development
from a single common parent form; -- opposed to polyphyletic; as,
monophyletic origin.

MONOPHYLLOUS
Mo*noph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. monophylle.] (Bot.)

Defn: One-leaved; composed of a single leaf; as, a monophyllous
involucre or calyx.

MONOPHYODONT
Mon`o*phy"o*dont, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having but one set of teeth; -- opposed to diphyodont.

MONOPHYSITE
Mo*noph"y*site, n. Etym: [Gr. monophysite.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect, in the ancient church, who maintained that the
human and divine in Jesus Christ constituted but one composite
nature. Also used adjectively.

MONOPHYSITICAL
Mon`o*phy*sit"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Monophysites, or their doctrines.

MONOPLAST
Mon"o*plast, n. Etym: [Mono- + -plast.] (Biol.)

Defn: A monoplastic element.

MONOPLASTIC
Mon`o*plas"tic, a. Etym: [Mono- + -plastic.] (Biol.)

Defn: That has one form, or retains its primary form, as, a
monoplastic element.

MONOPLEGIA
Mon`ople"gi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Paralysis affecting a single limb.

MONOPNEUMONA
Mon`op*neu"mo*na, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Mono-, and Pneumonia.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of Dipnoi, including the Ceratodus. [Written also
monopneumonia.]

MONOPODE
Mon"o*pode, n.

1. One of a fabulous tribe or race of Ethiopians having but one leg
and foot. Sir J. Mandeville. Lowell.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A monopodium.

MONOPODIAL
Mon`o*po"di*al, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a monopodium or a single and continuous axis, as a
birchen twig or a cornstalk.

MONOPODIUM
Mon`o*po"di*um, n.; pl. L. Monopodia, E. -ums. Etym: [L. See
Monopody.] (Bot.)

Defn: A single and continuous vegetable axis; -- opposed to
sympodium.

MONOPODY
Mo*nop"o*dy, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: A measure of but a single foot.

MONOPOLER
Mo*nop"o*ler, n.

Defn: A monopolist. [Obs.]

MONOPOLIST
Mo*nop"o*list, n.

Defn: One who monopolizes; one who has a monopoly; one who favors
monopoly.

MONOPOLISTIC
Mo*nop`o*lis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a monopolist. North Am. Rev.

MONOPOLITE
Mo*nop"o*lite, n.

Defn: A monopolist. Sylvester.

MONOPOLIZE
Mo*nop"o*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Monopolized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Monopolizing.] Etym: [From Monopoly.]

Defn: To acquire a monopoly of; to have or get the exclusive
privilege or means of dealing in, or the exclusive possession of; to
engross the whole of; as, to monopolize the coffee trade; to
monopolize land.

MONOPOLIZER
Mo*nop"o*li`zer, n.

Defn: One who monopolizes.

MONOPOLY
Mo*nop"o*ly, n.; pl. Monopolies. Etym: [L. monopolium, Gr.

1. The exclusive power, or privilege of selling a commodity; the
exclusive power, right, or privilege of dealing in some article, or
of trading in some market; sole command of the traffic in anything,
however obtained; as, the proprietor of a patented article is given a
monopoly of its sale for a limited time; chartered trading companies
have sometimes had a monopoly of trade with remote regions; a
combination of traders may get a monopoly of a particular product.
Raleigh held a monopoly of cards, Essex a monopoly of sweet wines.
Macaulay.

2. Exclusive possession; as, a monopoly of land.
If I had a monopoly out, they would have part on 't. Shak.

3. The commodity or other material thing to which the monopoly
relates; as, tobacco is a monopoly in France. [Colloq.]

MONOPOLYLOGUE
Mon`o*pol"y*logue, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. poly`s many + lo`gos
speech.]

Defn: An exhibition in which an actor sustains many characters.

MONOPSYCHISM
Mon`o*psy"chism, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

Defn: The doctrine that there is but one immortal soul or intellect
with which all men are endowed.

MONOPTERAL
Mo*nop"ter*al, a. Etym: [Gr. monoptère.] (Arch.)

Defn: Round and without a cella; consisting of a single ring of
columns supporting a roof; -- said esp. of a temple.

MONOPTERON
Mo*nop"ter*on, n.; pl. Monoptera. Etym: [NL. See Monopteral.] (Arch.)

Defn: A circular temple consisting of a roof supported on columns,
without a cella.

MONOPTOTE
Mon"op*tote, n. Etym: [L. monoptotum, Gr. mo`nos single + (Gram.)

1. A noun having only one case. Andrews.

2. A noun having only one ending for the oblique cases.

MONOPYRENOUS
Mon`o*py*re"nous, a. Etym: [Mono- + pyrene.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having but a single stone or kernel.

MONORGANIC
Mon`or*gan"ic, a. Etym: [Mon- + organic.] (Biol. & Med.)

Defn: Belonging to, or affecting, a single organ, or set of organs.

MONORHINA
Mon`o*rhi"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Marsipobranchiata.

MONORHYME
Mon"o*rhyme, n. Etym: [Mono- + rhyme: cf. F. monorime.]

Defn: A composition in verse, in which all the lines end with the
same rhyme.

MONOSACCHARIDE; MONOSACCHARID
Mon`o*sac"cha*ride, n. Also -rid . [Mono- + saccharide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A simple sugar; any of a number of sugars (including the
trioses, tetroses, pentoses, hexoses, etc.), not decomposable into
simpler sugars by hydrolysis. Specif., as used by some, a hexose. The
monosaccharides are all open-chain compounds containing hydroxyl
groups and either an aldehyde group or a ketone group.

MONOSEPALOUS
Mon`o*sep"al*ous, a. Etym: [Mono- + sepal: cf. F. monosépale.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having only one sepal, or the calyx in one piece or composed of
the sepals united into one piece; gamosepalous.

Note: The most recent writers restrict this term to flowers having a
solarity sepal, and use gamosepalous for a calyx formed by several
sepals combined into one piece. Cf. Monopetalous.

MONOSPERM
Mon"o*sperm, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A monospermous plant.

MONOSPERMAL; MONOSPERMOUS
Mon`o*sper"mal, Mon`o*sper"mous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monosperme.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having only one seed.

MONOSPHERICAL
Mon`o*spher"ic*al, a. Etym: [Mono- + spherical.]

Defn: Consisting of one sphere only.

MONOSTICH
Mon"o*stich, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A composition consisting of one verse only.

MONOSTICHOUS
Mo*nos"ti*chous, a. Etym: [See Monostich.] (Bot.)

Defn: Arranged in a single row on one side of an axis, as the flowers
in grasses of the tribe Chloridæ.

MONOSTROPHE
Mo*nos"tro*phe, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A metrical composition consisting of a single strophe.

MONOSTROPHIC
Mon`o*stroph"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: Having one strophe only; not varied in measure; written in
unvaried measure. Milton.

MONOSULPHIDE
Mon`o*sul"phide, n. Etym: [Mono- + sulphide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A sulphide containing one atom of sulphur, and analogous to a
monoxide; -- contrasted with a Ant: polysulphide; as, galena is a
monosulphide.

MONOSULPHURET
Mon`o*sul"phu*ret, n. Etym: [Mono- + sulphuret.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Monosulphide.

MONOSYLLABIC
Mon`o*syl*lab"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monosyllabique.]

Defn: Being a monosyllable, or composed of monosyllables; as, a
monosyllabic word; a monosyllabic language.
 -- Mon`o*syl*lab"ic*al*ly, adv.

MONOSYLLABISM
Mon`o*syl"la*bism, n.

Defn: The state of consisting of monosyllables, or having a
monosyllabic form; frequent occurrence of monosyllables.

MONOSYLLABLE
Mon"o*syl`la*ble, n. Etym: [L. monosyllabus of one syllable, Gr.
monosyllabe. See Mono-, Syllable.]

Defn: A word of one syllable.

MONOSYLLABLED
Mon"o*syl`la*bled, a.

Defn: Formed into, or consisting of, monosyllables. Cleveland.

MONOSYMMETRIC; MONOSYMMETRICAL
Mon`o*sym*met"ric, Mon`o*sym*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Mono- + symmetric,
-ical.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: Same as Monoclinic.

MONOTESSARON
Mon`o*tes"sa*ron, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A single narrative framed from the statements of the four
evangelists; a gospel harmony. [R.]

MONOTHALAMA
Mon`o*thal"a*ma, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Foraminifera including those that have only one
chamber.

MONOTHALAMAN
Mon`o*thal"a*man, n. Etym: [See Monothalamous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A foraminifer having but one chamber.

MONOTHALAMOUS
Mon`o*thal"a*mous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monothalame.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One-chambered.

MONOTHALMIC
Mon`o*thal"mic, a. Etym: [See Monothalamous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Formed from one pistil; -- said of fruits. R. Brown.

MONOTHECAL
Mon`o*the"cal, a. Etym: [Mono- + Br. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a single loculament.

MONOTHEISM
Mon"o*the*ism, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monothéisme.]

Defn: The doctrine or belief that there is but one God.

MONOTHEIST
Mon"o*the*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monothéiste.]

Defn: One who believes that there is but one God.

MONOTHEISTIC
Mon`o*the*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to monotheism.

MONOTHELISM; MONOTHELITISM
Mo*noth"e*lism, Mo*noth"e*li*tism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monothélisme,
monothélitisme.]

Defn: The doctrine of the Monothelites.

MONOTHELITE
Mo*noth"e*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. monothélite.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of an ancient sect who held that Christ had but one will as
he had but one nature. Cf. Monophysite. Gibbon.

MONOTHELITIC
Mon`o*the*lit"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monothelites, or their doctrine.

MONOTOCOUS
Mo*not"o*cous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing fruit but once; monocarpic.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Uniparous; laying a single egg.

MONOTOMOUS
Mo*not"o*mous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Having a distinct cleavage in a single direction only.

MONOTONE
Mon"o*tone, n. Etym: [See Monotonous, Monotony.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A single unvaried tone or sound.

2. (Rhet.)

Defn: The utterance of successive syllables, words, or sentences, on
one unvaried key or line of pitch.

MONOTONIC; MONOTONICAL
Mon`o*ton"ic, Mon`o*ton"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or uttered in, a monotone; monotonous.
"Monotonical declamation." Chesterfield.

MONOTONIST
Mo*not"o*nist, n.

Defn: One who talks in the same strain or on the same subject until
weariness is produced. Richardson.

MONOTONOUS
Mo*not"o*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. Tone.]

Defn: Uttered in one unvarying tone; continued with dull uniformity;
characterized by monotony; without change or variety; wearisome.
 -- Mo*not"o*nous*ly, adv.
 -- Mo*not"o*nous*ness, n.

MONOTONY
Mo*not"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. monotonie. See Monotonius.]

1. A frequent recurrence of the same tone or sound, producing a dull
uniformity; absence of variety, as in speaking or singing.

2. Any irksome sameness, or want of variety.
At sea, everything that breaks the monotony of the surrounding
expanse attracts attention. W. Irving.

MONOTREMATA
Mon`o*trem"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A subclass of Mammalia, having a cloaca in which the ducts of
the urinary, genital, and alimentary systems terminate, as in birds.
The female lays eggs like a bird. See Duck mole, under Duck, and
Echidna.

MONOTREMATOUS
Mon`o*trem"a*tous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monotremata.

MONOTREME
Mon"o*treme, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monotrème.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Monotremata.

MONOTRIGLYPH
Mon`o*tri"glyph, n. Etym: [Mono- + triglyph: cf. F. monotriglyphe.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A kind of intercolumniation in an entablature, in which only
one triglyph and two metopes are introduced.

MONOTROPA
Mo*not"ro*pa, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of parasitic or saprophytic plants including the Indian
pipe and pine sap. The name alludes to the dropping end of the stem.

MONOTYPE; MONOTYPIC
Mon"o*type, Mon`o*typ"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + -type: cf. F. monotype.]
(Biol.)

Defn: Having but one type; containing but one representative; as, a
monotypic genus, which contains but one species.

MONOVALENT
Mo*nov"a*lent, a. Etym: [Mono- + L. valens, p. pr. See Valence.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Having a valence of one; univalent. See Univalent.

MONOXIDE
Mo*nox"ide, n. Etym: [Mon- + oxide.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oxide containing one atom of oxygen in each molecule; as,
barium monoxide.

MONOXYLON
Mo*nox"y*lon, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

Defn: A canoe or boat made from one piece of timber.

MONOXYLOUS
Mo*nox"y*lous, a. Etym: [See Monoxylon.]

Defn: Made of one piece of wood.

MONOZOA
Mon`o*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Radiolaria; -- called also Monocyttaria.
 -- Mon`o*zo"ic, a.

MONROE DOCTRINE
Mon*roe" doc"trine.

Defn: See under Doctrine.

MONSEIGNEUR
Mon`sei`gneur", n.; pl. Messeigneurs. Etym: [F., fr. mon my +
seigneur lord, L. senior older. See Senior, and cf. Monsieur.]

Defn: My lord; -- a title in France of a person of high birth or
rank; as, Monseigneur the Prince, or Monseigneur the Archibishop. It
was given, specifically, to the dauphin, before the Revolution of
1789. (Abbrev. Mgr.)

MONSEL'S SALT
Mon"sel's salt`. (Med.)

Defn: A basic sulphate of iron; -- so named from Monsel, a Frenchman.

MONSEL'S SOLUTION
Mon"sel's so*lu"tion. Etym: [See Monsel's salt.] (Med.)

Defn: An aqueous solution of Monsel's salt, having valuable styptic
properties.

MONSIEUR
Mon*sieur", n.; pl. Messieurs. Etym: [F., fr. mon my + Sieur, abbrev.
of seigneur lord. See Monseigneur.]

1. The common title of civility in France in speaking to, or of, a
man; Mr. or Sir. [Represented by the abbreviation M. or Mons. in the
singular, and by MM. or Messrs. in the plural.]

2. The oldest brother of the king of France.

3. A Frenchman. [Contemptuous] Shak.

MONSIGNORE
Mon`si*gno"re, n.; pl. Monsignors. Etym: [It., my lord. Cf.
Monseigneur.]

Defn: My lord; -- an ecclesiastical dignity bestowed by the pope,
entitling the bearer to social and domestic rank at the papal court.
(Abbrev. Mgr.)

MONSOON
Mon*soon", n. Etym: [Malay musim, fr. Ar. mausim a time, season: cf.
F. monson, mousson, Sr. monzon, Pg. monç\'eeo, It. monsone.]

Defn: A wind blowing part of the year from one direction, alternating
with a wind from the opposite direction; -- a term applied
particularly to periodical winds of the Indian Ocean, which blow from
the southwest from the latter part of May to the middle of September,
and from the northeast from about the middle of October to the middle
of December.

MONSTER
Mon"ster, n. Etym: [OE. monstre, F. monstre, fr. L. monstrum, orig.,
a divine omen, indicating misfortune; akin of monstrare to show,
point out, indicate, and monere to warn. See Monition, and cf.
Demonstrate, Muster.]

1. Something of unnatural size, shape, or quality; a prodigy; an
enormity; a marvel.
A monster or marvel. Chaucer.

2. Specifically , an animal or plant departing greatly from the usual
type, as by having too many limbs.

3. Any thing or person of unnatural or excessive ugliness, deformity,
wickedness, or cruelty.

MONSTER
Mon"ster, a.

Defn: Monstrous in size. Pope.

MONSTER
Mon"ster, v. t.

Defn: To make monstrous. [Obs.] Shak.

MONSTRANCE
Mon"strance, n. Etym: [LL. monstrantia, fr. L. monstrare to show: cf.
OF. monstrance. See Monster.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A transparent pyx, in which the consecrated host is exposed to
view.

MONSTRATION
Mon*stra"tion, n. Etym: [L. monstratio.]

Defn: The act of demonstrating; proof. [Obs.]
A certain monstration. Grafton.

MONSTROSITY
Mon*stros"i*ty, n.; pl. Monstrosities. Etym: [Cf. F. monstruosité.
See Monstrous.]

Defn: The state of being monstrous, or out of the common order of
nature; that which is monstrous; a monster. South.
A monstrosity never changes the name or affects the immutability of a
species. Adanson (Trans. ).

MONSTROUS
Mon"strous, a. Etym: [OE. monstruous, F. monstrueux, fr. L.
monstruosus, fr. monstrum. See Monster.]

1. Marvelous; strange. [Obs.]

2. Having the qualities of a monster; deviating greatly from the
natural form or character; abnormal; as, a monstrous birth. Locke.
He, therefore, that refuses to do good to them whom he is bound to
love ... is unnatural and monstrous in his affections. Jer. Taylor.

3. Extraordinary in a way to excite wonder, dislike, apprehension,
etc.; -- said of size, appearance, color, sound, etc.; as, a
monstrous height; a monstrous ox; a monstrous story.

4. Extraordinary on account of ugliness, viciousness, or wickedness;
hateful; horrible; dreadful.
So bad a death argues a monstrous life. Shak.

5. Abounding in monsters. [R.]
Where thou, perhaps, under the whelming tide Visitest the bottom of
the monstrous world. Milton.

MONSTROUS
Mon"strous, adv.

Defn: Exceedingly; very; very much. "A monstrous thick oil on the
top." Bacon.
And will be monstrous witty on the poor. Dryden.

MONSTROUSLY
Mon"strous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a monstrous manner; unnaturally; extraordinarily; as,
monstrously wicked. "Who with his wife is monstrously in love."
Dryden.

MONSTROUSNESS
Mon"strous*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being monstrous, unusual,
extraordinary. Shak.

MONSTRUOSITY
Mon`stru*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: Monstrosity. [Obs.] Shak.

MONSTRUOUS
Mon"stru*ous, a.

Defn: Monstrous. [Obs.]

MONT
Mont, n. Etym: [F. See Mount, n.]

Defn: Mountain.

MONTAIGNE
Mon"taigne, n.

Defn: A mountain. [Obs.]

MONTANIC
Mon*tan"ic, a. Etym: [L. montanus, fr. mons, montis, mountain. See
Mount, n.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to mountains; consisting of mountains.

MONTANIST
Mon"ta*nist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of Mintanus, a Phrygian enthusiast of the second
century, who claimed that the Holy Spirit, the Paraclete, dwelt in
him, and employed him as an instrument for purifying and guiding men
in the Christian life.
 -- Mon`ta*nis"tic, Mon`ta*nis"tic*al, a.

MONTANT
Mon"tant, n. Etym: [F.,prop., mounting, fr. monter to mount, fr. L.
mons, montis, mountain. See Mount.]

1. (Fencing)

Defn: An upward thrust or blow. Shak.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An upright piece in any framework; a mullion or muntin; a
stile. [R.] See Stile.

MONT DE PIETE
Mont" de pi`é`té". Etym: [F., fr. It. monte di pietà mount of piety.]

Defn: One of certain public pawnbroking establishments which
originated in Italy in the 15th century, the object of which was to
lend money at a low rate of interest to poor people in need; --
called also mount of piety. The institution has been adopted in other
countries, as in Spain and France. See Lombard-house.

MONTE
Mon"te, n. Etym: [Sp., lit., mountain, hence, the stock of cards
remaining after laying out a certain number, fr. L. mons, montis,
mountain.]

Defn: A favorite gambling game among Spaniards, played with dice or
cards.

MONTE-ACID
Monte`-ac"id, n. Etym: [F. monter to raise + acide acid.] (Chem.)

Defn: An acid elevator, as a tube through which acid is forced to
some height in a sulphuric acid manufactory.

MONTEITH
Mon*teith", n.

Defn: See Monteth.

MONTE-JUS
Monte"-jus", n. [F., fr. monter to bring up + jus juice.]

Defn: An apparatus for raising a liquid by pressure of air or steam
in a reservoir containing the liquid.

MONTEM
Mon"tem, n. Etym: [L. ad montem to the hillock. See Mount, n.]

Defn: A custom, formerly practiced by the scholars at Eton school,
England, of giing every third year, on Whittuesday, to a hillock near
the Bath road, and exacting money from all passers-by, to support at
the university the senior scholar of the school.

MONTERO
Mon*te"ro, n. Etym: [Sp. montera a hunting cap, fr. montero a
huntsman, monte a mountain, forest, L. mons, montis, mountain. See
Mount, n.]

Defn: An ancient kind of cap worn by horsemen or huntsmen. Bacon.

MONTESSORI METHOD
Mon`tes*so"ri Meth"od. (Pedagogy)

Defn: A system of training and instruction, primarily for use with
normal children aged from three to six years, devised by Dr. Maria
Montessori while teaching in the "Houses of Childhood" (schools in
the poorest tenement districts of Rome, Italy), and first fully
described by her in 1909. Leading features are freedom for physical
activity (no stationary desks and chairs), informal and individual
instruction, the very early development of writing, and an extended
sensory and motor training (with special emphasis on vision, touch,
perception of movement, and their interconnections), mediated by a
patented, standardized system of "didactic apparatus," which is
declared to be "auto-regulative." Most of the chief features of the
method are borrowed from current methods used in many institutions
for training feeble-minded children, and dating back especially to
the work of the French-American physician Edouard O. Seguin (1812-
80).

MONTETH; MONTEITH
Mon*teth", Mon*teith", n.

Defn: A vessel in which glasses are washed; -- so called from the
name of the inventor.
New things produce new words, and thus Monteth Has by one vessel
saved his name from death. King.

MONTGOLFIER
Mont`gol"fier, n.

Defn: A balloon which ascends by the buoyancy of air heated by a
fire; a fire balloon; -- so called from two brothers, Stephen and
Joseph Montgolfier, of France, who first constructed and sent up a
fire balloon.

MONTH
Month, n. Etym: [OE. month, moneth, AS. mon, mona; akin to mona moon,
and to D. maand month, G. monat, OHG. manod, Icel. manu, mana, Goth.
meno. *272. See Moon.]

Defn: One of the twelve portions into which the year is divided; the
twelfth part of a year, corresponding nearly to the length of a
synodic revolution of the moon, -- whence the name. In popular use, a
period of four weeks is often called a month.

Note: In the common law, a month is a lunar month, or twenty-eight
days, unless otherwise expressed. Blackstone. In the United States
the rule of the common law is generally cahanged, and a month is
declared to mean a calendar month. Cooley's Blackstone. A month mind.
(a) A strong or abnormal desire. [Obs.] Shak. (b) A celebration made
in remembrance of a deceased person a month after death. Strype.
 -- Calendar months, the months as adjusted in the common or
Gregorian calendar; April, June, September, and November, containing
30 days, and the rest 31, except February, which, in common years,
has 28, and in leap years 29.
 -- Lunar month, the period of one revolution of the moon,
particularly a synodical revolution; but several kinds are
distinguished, as the synodical month, or period from one new moon to
the next, in mean length 29 d. 12 h. 44 m. 2.87 s.; the nodical
month, or time of revolution from one node to the same again, in
length 27 d. 5 h. 5 m. 36 s.; the sidereal, or time of revolution
from a star to the same again, equal to 27 d. 7 h. 43 m. 11.5 s.; the
anomalistic, or time of revolution from perigee to perigee again, in
length 27 d. 13 h. 18 m. 37.4 s.; and the tropical, or time of
passing from any point of the ecliptic to the same again, equal to 27
d. 7 h. 43 m. 4.7 s.
 -- Solar month, the time in which the sun passes through one sign of
the zodiac, in mean length 30 d. 10 h. 29 m. 4.1 s.

MONTHLING
Month"ling, n.

Defn: That which is a month old, or which lives for a month. [R.]
Wordsworth.

MONTHLY
Month"ly, a.

1. Continued a month, or a performed in a month; as, the monthly
revolution of the moon.

2. Done, happening, payable, published, etc., once a month, or every
month; as, a monthly visit; monthly charges; a monthly installment; a
monthly magazine. Monthly nurse, a nurse who serves for a month or
some short time, esp. one which attends women after childbirth.

MONTHLY
Month"ly, n.; pl. Monthlies (.

Defn: A publication which appears regularly once a month.

MONTHLY
Month"ly, adv.

1. Once a month; in every month; as, the moon changes monthly. Shak.

2. As if under the influence of the moon; in the manner of a lunatic.
[Obs.] Middleton.

MONTICLE
Mon"ti*cle, n. Etym: [L. monticulus, dim. of mons, montis, mountain:
cf. F. monticule. See Mount, n.]

Defn: A little mount; a hillock; a small elevation or prominence.
[Written also monticule.]

MONTICULATE
Mon*tic"u*late, a.

Defn: Furnished with monticles or little elevations.

MONTICULE
Mon"ti*cule, n.

Defn: See Monticle.

MONTICULOUS
Mon*tic"u*lous, a.

Defn: Monticulate.

MONTIFORM
Mon"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. mons, montis, mountain + -form.]

Defn: Resembling a mountain in form.

MONTIGENOUS
Mon*tig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. montigena; mons, montis, mountain + the
root of gignere to beget.]

Defn: Produced on a mountain.

MONTOIR
Mon`toir", n. Etym: [F., fr. monter to mount. See Montant.]

Defn: A stone used in mounting a horse; a horse block.

MONTON
Mon"ton, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Mining)

Defn: A heap of ore; a mass undergoing the process of amalgamation.

MONTRE
Mon"tre, n. [F., show, show case, organ case.]

1. (Organ Building) A stop, usually the open diapason, having its
pipes "shown" as part of the organ case, or otherwise specially
mounted.

2.  A hole in the wall of a pottery kiln, by which the state of the
pieces within can be judged.

MONTROSS
Mon*tross", n.

Defn: See Matross. [Obs.]

MONTRUE
Mon"true, n. Etym: [F., fr. monter to mount. See Montoir.]

Defn: That on which anything is mounted; a setting; hence, a saddle
horse. [Obs.] Spenser.

MONUMENT
Mon"u*ment, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. monumentum, fr. monere to remind,
admonish. See Monition, and cf. Moniment.]

1. Something which stands, or remains, to keep in remembrance what is
past; a memorial.
Of ancient British art A pleasing monument. Philips.
Our bruised arms hung up for monuments. Shak.

2. A building, pillar, stone, or the like, erected to preserve the
remembrance of a person, event, action, etc.; as, the Washington
monument; the Bunker Hill monument. Also, a tomb, with memorial
inscriptions.
On your family's old monument Hang mournful epitaphs, and do all
rites That appertain unto a burial. Shak.

3. A stone or other permanent object, serving to indicate a limit or
to mark a boundary.

4. A saying, deed, or example, worthy of record.
Acts and Monuments of these latter and perilous days. Foxe.

Syn.
 -- Memorial; remembrance; tomb; cenotaph.

MONUMENTAL
Mon`u*men"tal, a. Etym: [L. monumentalis: cf. F. monumental.]

1. Of, pertaining to, or suitable for, a monument; as, a monumental
inscription.

2. Serving as a monument; memorial; preserving memory. "Of pine, or
monumental oak." Milton.
A work outlasting monumental brass. Pope.

MONUMENTALLY
Mon`u*men"tal*ly, adv.

1. By way of memorial.

2. By means of monuments.

MONUREID
Mon*u"re*id, n. Etym: [Mon- + ureid.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of complex nitrogenous substances regarded
as derived from one molecule of urea; as, alloxan is a monureid.
[Written also monureide.]

MOO
Moo, a., adv., & n.

Defn: See Mo. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOO
Moo, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mooed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mooing.] Etym: [Of
imitative origin.]

Defn: To make the noise of a cow; to low; -- child's word.

MOO
Moo, n.

Defn: The lowing of a cow.

MOOD
Mood, n. Etym: [The same word as mode, perh. influenced by mood
temper. See Mode.]

1. Manner; style; mode; logical form; musical style; manner of action
or being. See Mode which is the preferable form).

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Manner of conceiving and expressing action or being, as
positive, possible, hypothetical, etc., without regard to other
accidents, such as time, person, number, etc.; as, the indicative
mood; the infinitive mood; the subjunctive mood. Same as Mode.

MOOD
Mood, n. Etym: [OE. mood, mod, AS. modmind, feeling, heart, courage;
akin to OS. & OFries. mod, D. moed, OHG. muot, G. muth, mut, courage,
Dan. & Sw. mod, Icel. mo wrath, Goth. mods.]

Defn: Temper of mind; temporary state of the mind in regard to
passion or feeling; humor; as, a melancholy mood; a suppliant mood.
Till at the last aslaked was mood. Chaucer.
Fortune is merry, And in this mood will give us anything. Shak.
The desperate recklessness of her mood. Hawthorne.

MOODER
Moo"der, n.

Defn: Mother. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOODILY
Mood"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a moody manner.

MOODINESS
Mood"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being moody; specifically, liability to
strange or violent moods.

MOODIR
Moo"dir, n. Etym: [Ar. mudir.]

Defn: The governor of a province in Egypt, etc. [Written also mudir.]

MOODISH
Mood"ish, a.

Defn: Moody. [Obs.]

MOODISHLY
Mood"ish*ly, adv.

Defn: Moodily. [Obs.]

MOODY
Mood"y, a. [Compar. Moodier; superl. Moodiest.] Etym: [AS. modig
courageous.]

1. Subject to varying moods, especially to states of mind which are
unamiable or depressed.

2. Hence: Out of humor; peevish; angry; fretful; also, abstracted and
pensive; sad; gloomy; melancholy. "Every peevish, moody malcontent."
Rowe.
Arouse thee from thy moody dream! Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- Gloomy; pensive; sad; fretful; capricious.

MOOLAH; MOOLLAH
Moo"lah, Mool"lah, n.

Defn: See Mollah.

MOOLLEY
Mool"ley, n.

Defn: Same as Mulley.

MOON
Moon, n. Etym: [OE. mone, AS. mona; akin to D. maan, OS. & OHG. mano,
G. mond, Icel. mani, Dan. maane, Sw. måne, Goth. mena, Lith. men, L.
mensis month, Gr. mas moon, month; prob. from a root meaning to
measure (cf. Skr. ma to measure), from its serving to measure the
time. *271. Cf. Mete to measure, Menses, Monday, Month.]

1. The celestial orb which revolves round the earth; the satellite of
the earth; a secondary planet, whose light, borrowed from the sun, is
reflected to the earth, and serves to dispel the darkness of night.
The diameter of the moon is 2,160 miles, its mean distance from the
earth is 240,000 miles, and its mass is one eightieth that of the
earth. See Lunar month, under Month.
The crescent moon, the diadem of night. Cowper.

2. A secondary planet, or satellite, revolving about any member of
the solar system; as, the moons of Jupiter or Saturn.

3. The time occupied by the moon in making one revolution in her
orbit; a month. Shak.

4. (Fort.)

Defn: A crescentlike outwork. See Half-moon. Moon blindness. (a)
(Far.) A kind of ophthalmia liable to recur at intervals of three or
four weeks. (b) (Med.) Hemeralopia.
 -- Moon dial, a dial used to indicate time by moonlight.
 -- Moon face, a round face like a full moon.
 -- Moon madness, lunacy. [Poetic] -- Moon month, a lunar month.
 -- Moon trefoil (Bot.), a shrubby species of medic (Medicago
arborea). See Medic.
 -- Moon year, a lunar year, consisting of lunar months, being
sometimes twelve and sometimes thirteen.

MOON
Moon, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mooned; p. pr. & vb. n. Mooning.]

Defn: To expose to the rays of the moon.
If they have it to be exceeding white indeed, they seethe it yet once
more, after it hath been thus sunned and mooned. Holland.

MOON
Moon, v. i.

Defn: To act if moonstruck; to wander or gaze about in an abstracted
manner.
Elsley was mooning down the river by himself. C. Kingsley.

MOONBEAM
Moon"beam`, n.

Defn: A ray of light from the moon.

MOONBLIND
Moon"blind`, a.

Defn: Dim-sighted; purblind.

MOONBLINK
Moon"blink`, n.

Defn: A temporary blindness, or impairment of sight, said to be
caused by sleeping in the moonlight; -- sometimes called nyctalopia.

MOONCALF
Moon"calf`, n.

1. A monster; a false conception; a mass of fleshy matter, generated
in the uterus.

2. A dolt; a stupid fellow. Dryden.

MOON-CULMINATING
Moon"-cul"mi*na`ting, a.

Defn: Culminating, or coming to the meredian, at or about the same
time with the moon; -- said of a star or stars, esp. of certain stars
selected beforehand, and named in an ephemeris (as the Nautical
Almanac), as suitable to be observed in connection with the moon at
culmination, for determining terrestrial longitude.

MOONED
Mooned, a.

Defn: Of or resembling the moon; symbolized by the moon. "Sharpening
in mooned horns." "Mooned Ashtaroth." Milton.

MOONER
Moon"er, n.

Defn: One who abstractedly wanders or gazes about, as if moonstruck.
[R.] Dickens.

MOONERY
Moon"er*y, n.

Defn: Conduct of one who moons. [R.]

MOONET
Moon"et, n.

Defn: A little moon. [R.] Bp. Hall.

MOON-EYE
Moon"-eye`, n.

1. A eye affected by the moon; also, a disease in the eye of a horse.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) Any species of American fresh-water fishes of the genus Hyodon,
esp. H. tergisus of the Great Lakes and adjacent waters.
(b) The cisco.

MOON-EYED
Moon"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having eyes affected by the moon; moonblind; dim-eyed;
purblind.

MOON-FACED
Moon"-faced`, a.

Defn: Having a round, full face.

MOONFISH
Moon"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) An American marine fish (Vomer setipennis); -- called also
bluntnosed shiner, horsefish, and sunfish.
(b) A broad, thin, silvery marine fish (Selene vomer); -- called also
lookdown, and silver moonfish.
(c) The mola. See Sunfish, 1.

MOONFLOWER
Moon"flow`er, n. (Bot.)
(a) The oxeye daisy; -- called also moon daisy.
(b) A kind of morning glory (Ipomoea Bona-nox) with large white
flowers opening at night.

MOONG
Moong, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Mung.

MOONGLADE
Moon"glade`, n.

Defn: The bright reflection of the moon's light on an expanse of
water. [Poetic]

MOONIE
Moo"nie, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European goldcrest.

MOONISH
Moon"ish, a.

Defn: Like the moon; variable.
Being but a moonish youth. Shak.

MOONLESS
Moon"less, a.

Defn: Being without a moon or moonlight.

MOONLIGHT
Moon`light`, n.

Defn: The light of the moon.
 -- a.

Defn: Occurring during or by moonlight; characterized by moonlight.

MOONLIGHTER
Moon"light`er, n. One who follows an occupation or pastime by
moonlight; as:
 (a) A moonshiner.
 (b) In Ireland, one of a band that engaged in agrarian outrages by
night.
 (c) A serenader by moonlight. [Local, U. S.]

MOONLING
Moon"ling, n.

Defn: A simpleton; a lunatic. [Obs.]

MOONLIT
Moon"lit`, a.

Defn: Illumined by the moon. "The moonlit sea." Moore. "Moonlit
dells." Lowell.

MOONRAKER
Moon"rak`er, n. (Naut.)

Defn: Same as Moonsail.

MOONRISE
Moon"rise`, n.

Defn: The rising of the moon above the horizon; also, the time of its
rising.

MOONSAIL
Moon"sail`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A sail sometimes carried in light winds, above a skysail. R. H.
Dana, Jr.

MOONSEED
Moon"seed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A climbing plant of the genus Menispermum; -- so called from
the crescentlike form of the seeds.

MOONSET
Moon"set`, n.

Defn: The descent of the moon below the horizon; also, the time when
the moon sets.

MOONSHEE
Moon"shee, n. Etym: [Hind. munishi, fr. Ar. munishi a writer, author,
secretary, tutor.]

Defn: A Mohammedan professor or teacher of language. [India]

MOONSHINE
Moon"shine`, n.

1. The light of the moon.

2. Hence, show without substance or reality.

3. A month. [R.] Shak.

4. A preparation of eggs for food. [Obs.]

MOONSHINE
Moon"shine`, a.

Defn: Moonlight. [R.] Clarendon.

MOONSHINER
Moon"shin`er, n.

Defn: A person engaged in illicit distilling; -- so called because
the work is largely done at night. [Cant, U.S.]

MOONSHINING
Moon"shin`ing, n.

Defn: Illicit distilling. [Slang or Colloq., U. S.]

MOONSHINY
Moon"shin`y, a.

Defn: Moonlight. [Colloq.]
I went to see them in a moonshiny night. Addison.

MOONSTONE
Moon"stone`, n. (Min.)

Defn: A nearly pellucid variety of feldspar, showing pearly or
opaline reflections from within. It is used as a gem. The best
specimens come from Ceylon.

MOONSTRICKEN
Moon"strick`en, a.

Defn: See Moonstruck.

MOONSTRUCK
Moon"struck`, a.

1. Mentally affected or deranged by the supposed influence of the
moon; lunatic.

2. Produced by the supposed influence of the moon. "Moonstruck
madness." Milton.

3. Made sick by the supposed influence of the moon, as a human being;
made unsuitable for food, as fishes, by such supposed influence.

MOONWORT
Moon"wort`, n. (Bot.)
(a) The herb lunary or honesty. See Honesty.
(b) Any fern of the genus Botrychium, esp. B. Lunaria; -- so named
from the crescent-shaped segments of its frond.

MOONY
Moon"y, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the moon.
Soft and pale as the moony beam. J. R. Drake.

2. Furnished with a moon; bearing a crescent.
But soon the miscreant moony host Before the victor cross shall fly.
Fenton.

3. Silly; weakly sentimental. [Colloq.] G. Eliot.

MOOR
Moor, n. Etym: [F. More, Maure, L. Maurus a Moor, a Mauritanian, an
inhabitant of Mauritania, Gr. Morris a dance, Morocco.]

1. One of a mixed race inhabiting Morocco, Algeria, Tunis, and
Tripoli, chiefly along the coast and in towns.

2. (Hist.)

Defn: Any individual of the swarthy races of Africa or Asia which
have adopted the Mohammedan religion. "In Spanish history the terms
Moors, Saracens, and Arabs are synonymous." Internat. Cyc.

MOOR
Moor, n. Etym: [OE. mor, AS. mor moor, morass; akin to D. moer moor,
G. moor, and prob. to Goth. marei sea, E. mere. See Mere a lake.]

1. An extensive waste covered with patches of heath, and having a
poor, light soil, but sometimes marshy, and abounding in peat; a
heath.
In her girlish age she kept sheep on the moor. Carew.

2. A game preserve consisting of moorland. Moor buzzard (Zoöl.), the
marsh harrier. [Prov. Eng.] -- Moor coal (Geol.), a friable variety
of lignite.
 -- Moor cock (Zoöl.), the male of the moor fowl or red grouse of
Europe.
 -- Moor coot. (Zoöl.) See Gallinule.
 -- Moor fowl. (Zoöl.) (a) The European ptarmigan, or red grouse
(Lagopus Scoticus). (b) The European heath grouse. See under Heath.
 -- Moor game. (Zoöl.) Same as Moor fowl (above).
 -- Moor grass (Bot.), a tufted perennial grass (Sesleria cærulea),
found in mountain pastures of Europe.
 -- Moor hawk (Zoöl.), the marsh harrier.
 -- Moor hen. (Zoöl.) (a) The female of the moor fowl. (b) A
gallinule, esp. the European species. See Gallinule. (c) An
Australian rail (Tribonyx ventralis).
 -- Moor monkey (Zoöl.), the black macaque of Borneo (Macacus
maurus).
 -- Moor titling (Zoöl.), the European stonechat (Pratinocola
rubicola).

MOOR
Moor, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Moored; p. pr. & vb. n. Mooring.] Etym:
[Prob. fr. D. marren to tie, fasten, or moor a ship. See Mar.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: To fix or secure, as a vessel, in a particular place by casting
anchor, or by fastening with cables or chains; as, the vessel was
moored in the stream; they moored the boat to the wharf.

2. Fig.: To secure, or fix firmly. Brougham.

MOOR
Moor, v. i.

Defn: To cast anchor; to become fast.
On oozy ground his galleys moor. Dryden.

MOORAGE
Moor"age, n.

Defn: A place for mooring.

MOORBALL
Moor"ball`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A fresh-water alga (Cladophora Ægagropila) which forms a
globular mass.

MOORBAND
Moor"band`, n.

Defn: See Moorpan.

MOORESS
Moor"ess, n.

Defn: A female Moor; a Moorish woman.

MOORING
Moor"ing, n.

1. The act of confining a ship to a particular place, by means of
anchors or fastenings.

2. That which serves to confine a ship to a place, as anchors,
cables, bridles, etc.

3. pl.

Defn: The place or condition of a ship thus confined.
And the tossed bark in moorings swings. Moore.
Mooring block (Naut.), a heavy block of cast iron sometimes used as
an anchor for mooring vessels.

MOORISH
Moor"ish, a. Etym: [From 2d Moor.]

Defn: Having the characteristics of a moor or heath. "Moorish fens."
Thomson.

MOORISH
Moor"ish, a. Etym: [See 1st Moor, and cf. Morris, Moresque.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Morocco or the Moors; in the style of the
Moors. Moorish architecture, the style developed by the Moors in the
later Middle Ages, esp. in Spain, in which the arch had the form of a
horseshoe, and the ornamentation admitted no representation of animal
life. It has many points of resemblance to the Arabian and Persian
styles, but should be distinguished from them. See Illust. under
Moresque.

MOORLAND
Moor"land, n. Etym: [AS. morland.]

Defn: Land consisting of a moor or moors.

MOORPAN
Moor"pan`, n. Etym: [Cf. Hard pan, under Hard.]

Defn: A clayey layer or pan underlying some moors, etc.

MOORSTONE
Moor"stone`, n.

Defn: A species of English granite, used as a building stone.

MOORUK
Moo"ruk, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of cassowary (Casuarius Bennetti) found in New
Britain, and noted for its agility in running and leaping. It is
smaller and has stouter legs than the common cassowary. Its crest is
biloted; the neck and breast are black; the back, rufous mixed with
black; and the naked skin of the neck, blue.

MOORY
Moor"y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to moors; marshy; fenny; boggy; moorish.
Mortimer.
As when thick mists arise from moory vales. Fairfax.

MOORY
Moor"y, n.

Defn: A kind of blue cloth made in India. Balfour (Cyc of India).

MOOSE
Moose, n. Etym: [A native name; Knisteneaux mouswah; Algonquin monse.
Mackenzie.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large cervine mammal (Alces machlis, or A. Americanus),
native of the Northern United States and Canada. The adult male is
about as large as a horse, and has very large, palmate antlers. It
closely resembles the European elk, and by many zoölogists is
considered the same species. See Elk. Moose bird (Zoöl.), the Canada
jayor whisky jack. See Whisky jack.
 -- Moose deer. Same as Moose.
 -- Moose yard (Zoöl.), a locality where moose, in winter, herd
together in a forest to feed and for mutual protection.

MOOSEWOOD
Moose"wood`, n. (Bot.)
(a) The striped maple (Acer Pennsylvanicum).
(b) Leatherwood.

MOOT
Moot, v.

Defn: See 1st Mot. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOOT
Moot, n. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A ring for gauging wooden pins.

MOOT
Moot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mooted; p. pr. & vb. n. Mooting.] Etym:
[OE. moten, motien, AS. motan to meet or assemble for conversation,
to discuss, dispute, fr. mot, gemot, a meeting, an assembly; akin to
Icel. mot, MHG. muoz. Cf. Meet to come together.]

1. To argue for and against; to debate; to discuss; to propose for
discussion.
A problem which hardly has been mentioned, much less mooted, in this
country. Sir W. Hamilton.

2. Specifically: To discuss by way of exercise; to argue for
practice; to propound and discuss in a mock court.
First a case is appointed to be mooted by certain young men,
containing some doubtful controversy. Sir T. Elyot.

MOOT
Moot, v. i.

Defn: To argue or plead in a supposed case.
There is a difference between mooting and pleading; between fencing
and fighting. B. Jonson.

MOOT
Moot, n. Etym: [AS. mot, gemot, a meeting; -- usually in comp.]
[Written also mote.]

1. A meeting for discussion and deliberation; esp., a meeting of the
people of a village or district, in Anglo-Saxon times, for the
discussion and settlement of matters of common interest; -- usually
in composition; as, folk-moot. J. R. Green.

2. Etym: [From Moot, v.]

Defn: A discussion or debate; especially, a discussion of fictitious
causes by way of practice.
The pleading used in courts and chancery called moots. Sir T. Elyot.
Moot case, a case or question to be mooted; a disputable case; an
unsettled question. Dryden.
 -- Moot court, a mock court, such as is held by students of law for
practicing the conduct of law cases.
 -- Moot point, a point or question to be debated; a doubtful
question.

MOOT
Moot, a.

Defn: Subject, or open, to argument or discussion; undecided;
debatable; mooted.

MOOTABLE
Moot"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being mooted.

MOOTER
Moot"er, n.

Defn: A disputer of a mooted case.

MOOT-HALL; MOOT-HOUSE
Moot"-hall`, Moot"-house`, n. Etym: [AS. moth.]

Defn: A hall for public meetings; a hall of judgment. [Obs.] "The
moot-hall of Herod." Wyclif.

MOOT-HILL
Moot"-hill`, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A hill of meeting or council; an elevated place in the open air
where public assemblies or courts were held by the Saxons; -- called,
in Scotland, mute-hill. J. R. Green.

MOOTMAN
Moot"man, n.; pl. Mootmen (. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: One who argued moot cases in the inns of court.

MOP
Mop, n. Etym: [See Mope.]

Defn: A made-up face; a grimace. "What mops and mowes it makes!"
Beau. & Fl.

MOP
Mop, v. i.

Defn: To make a wry mouth. [Obs.] Shak.

MOP
Mop, n. Etym: [CF. W. mop, mopa, Ir. moipal, Gael. moibeal, moibean;
or OF. mappe a napkin (see Map, Napkin).]

1. An implement for washing floors, or the like, made of a piece of
cloth, or a collection of thrums, or coarse yarn, fastened to a
handle.

2. A fair where servants are hired. [Prov. Eng.]

3. The young of any animal; also, a young girl; a moppet. [Prov.
Eng.] Halliwell. Mop head. (a) The end of a mop, to which the thrums
or rags are fastened. (b) A clamp for holding the thrums or rags of a
mop. [U.S.]

MOP
Mop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mopped; p. pr. & vb. n. Mopping.]

Defn: To rub or wipe with a mop, or as with a mop; as, to mop a
floor; to mop one's face with a handkerchief.

MOPBOARD
Mop"board`, n. (Carp.)

Defn: A narrow board nailed against the wall of a room next to the
floor; skirting board; baseboard. See Baseboard.

MOPE
Mope, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Moped; p. pr. & vb. n. Moping.] Etym: [Cf.
D. moppen to pout, Prov. G. muffen to sulk.]

Defn: To be dull and spiritless. "Moping melancholy." Milton.
A sickly part of one true sense Could not so mope. Shak.

MOPE
Mope, v. t.

Defn: To make spiritless and stupid. [Obs.]

MOPE
Mope, n.

Defn: A dull, spiritless person. Burton.

MOPE-EYED
Mope"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Shortsighted; purblind.

MOPEFUL
Mope"ful, a.

Defn: Mopish. [R.]

MOPISH
Mop"ish, a.

Defn: Dull; spiritless; dejected.
 -- Mop"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Mop"ish*ness, n.

MOPLAH
Mop"lah, n. Etym: [Malayalam mapplia.]

Defn: One of a class of Mohammedans in Malabar.

MOPPET
Mop"pet, n. Etym: [From 3d Mop.]

1. A rag baby; a puppet made of cloth; hence, also, in fondness, a
little girl, or a woman.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A long-haired pet dog.

MOPSEY; MOPSY
Mop"sey, Mop"sy, n.

1. A moppet.

2. A slatternly, untidy woman. Halliwell.

MOPSICAL
Mop"si*cal, a.

Defn: Shortsighted; mope-eyed.

MOPSTICK
Mop"stick`, n.

Defn: The long handle of a mop.

MOPUS
Mo"pus, n.

Defn: A mope; a drone. [Obs.] Swift.

MOQUETTE
Mo*quette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A kind of carpet having a short velvety pile.

MORA
Mor"a, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A game of guessing the number of fingers extended in a quick
movement of the hand, -- much played by Italians of the lower
classes.

MORA
Mo"ra, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous tree of Guiana and Trinidad (Dimorphandra
excelsa); also, its timber, used in shipbuilding and making
furniture.

MORA
Mo"ra, n. Etym: [L.] (Rom. & Civil Law)

Defn: Delay; esp., culpable delay; postponement.

MORAINE
Mo*raine", n. Etym: [F. Cf. Prov. G. mur stones broken off, It. mora
a heap of stones, hillock, G. mürbe soft, broken up, OHG. muruwi, AS.
mearu tender, Gr. mla to relax.] (Geol.)

Defn: An accumulation of earth and stones carried forward and
deposited by a glacier. Lyell.

Note: If the moranie is at the extremity of the glacier it is a
terminal moranie; if at the side, a lateral moranie; if parallel to
the side on the central portion of the glacier, a medial moranie. See
Illust. of Glacier. In the last case it is formed by the union of the
lateral moranies of the branches of the glacier. A ground moranie is
one beneath the mass of ice.

MORAINIC
Mo*rain"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a moranie.

MORAL
Mor"al, a. Etym: [F., fr. It. moralis, fr. mos, moris, manner,
custom, habit, way of life, conduct.]

1. Relating to duty or obligation; pertaining to those intentions and
actions of which right and wrong, virtue and vice, are predicated, or
to the rules by which such intentions and actions ought to be
directed; relating to the practice, manners, or conduct of men as
social beings in relation to each other, as respects right and wrong,
so far as they are properly subject to rules.
Keep at the least within the compass of moral actions, which have in
them vice or virtue. Hooker.
Mankind is broken loose from moral bands. Dryden.
She had wandered without rule or guidance in a moral wilderness.
Hawthorne.

2. Conformed to accepted rules of right; acting in conformity with
such rules; virtuous; just; as, a moral man. Used sometimes in
distinction from religious; as, a moral rather than a religious life.
The wiser and more moral part of mankind. Sir M. Hale.

3. Capable of right and wrong action or of being governed by a sense
of right; subject to the law of duty.
A moral agent is a being capable of those actions that have a moral
quality, and which can properly be denominated good or evil in a
moral sense. J. Edwards.

4. Acting upon or through one's moral nature or sense of right, or
suited to act in such a manner; as, a moral arguments; moral
considerations. Sometimes opposed to material and physical; as, moral
pressure or support.

5. Supported by reason or probability; practically sufficient; --
opposed to legal or demonstrable; as, a moral evidence; a moral
certainty.

6. Serving to teach or convey a moral; as, a moral lesson; moral
tales. Moral agent, a being who is capable of acting with reference
to right and wrong.
 -- Moral certainty, a very high degree or probability, although not
demonstrable as a certainty; a probability of so high a degree that
it can be confidently acted upon in the affairs of life; as, there is
a moral certainty of his guilt.
 -- Moral insanity, insanity, so called, of the moral system; badness
alleged to be irresponsible.
 -- Moral philosophy, the science of duty; the science which treats
of the nature and condition of man as a moral being, of the duties
which result from his moral relations, and the reasons on which they
are founded.
 -- Moral play, an allegorical play; a morality. [Obs.] -- Moral
sense, the power of moral judgment and feeling; the capacity to
perceive what is right or wrong in moral conduct, and to approve or
disapprove, independently of education or the knowledge of any
positive rule or law.
 -- Moral theology, theology applied to morals; practical theology;
casuistry.

MORAL
Mor"al, n.

1. The doctrine or practice of the duties of life; manner of living
as regards right and wrong; conduct; behavior; -- usually in the
plural.
Corrupt in their morals as vice could make them. South.

2. The inner meaning or significance of a fable, a narrative, an
occurrence, an experience, etc.; the practical lesson which anything
is designed or fitted to teach; the doctrine meant to be inculcated
by a fiction; a maxim.
Thus may we gather honey from the weed, And make a moral of the devil
himself. Shak.
To point a moral, or adorn a tale. Johnson.
We protest against the principle that the world of pure comedy is one
into which no moral enters. Macaulay.

3. A morality play. See Morality, 5.

MORAL
Mor"al, v. i.

Defn: To moralize. [Obs.] Shak.

MORALE
Mo`rale", n. Etym: [F. See Moral, a.]

Defn: The moral condition, or the condition in other respects, so far
as it is affected by, or dependent upon, moral considerations, such
as zeal, spirit, hope, and confidence; mental state, as of a body of
men, an army, and the like.

MORALER
Mor"al*er, n.

Defn: A moralizer. [Obs.] Shak.

MORALISM
Mor"al*ism, n.

Defn: A maxim or saying embodying a moral truth. Farrar.

MORALIST
Mor"al*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. moraliste.]

1. One who moralizes; one who teaches or animadverts upon the duties
of life; a writer of essays intended to correct vice and inculcate
moral duties. Addison.

2. One who practices moral duties; a person who lives in conformity
with moral rules; one of correct deportment and dealings with his
fellow-creatures; -- sometimes used in contradistinction to one whose
life is controlled by religious motives.
The love (in the moralist of virtue, but in the Christian) of God
himself. Hammond.

MORALITY
Mo*ral"i*ty, n.; pl. Moralities. Etym: [L. moralitas: cf. F.
moralité.]

1. The relation of conformity or nonconformity to the moral standard
or rule; quality of an intention, a character, an action, a
principle, or a sentiment, when tried by the standard of right.
The morality of an action is founded in the freedom of that
principle, by virtue of which it is in the agent's power, having all
things ready and requisite to the performance of an action, either to
perform or not perform it. South.

2. The quality of an action which renders it good; the conformity of
an act to the accepted standard of right.
Of moralitee he was the flower. Chaucer.
I am bold to think that morality is capable of demonstration. Locke.

3. The doctrines or rules of moral duties, or the duties of men in
their social character; ethics.
The end of morality is to procure the affections to obey reason, and
not to invade it. Bacon.
The system of morality to be gathered out of ... ancient sages falls
very short of that delivered in the gospel. Swift.

4. The practice of the moral duties; rectitude of life; conformity to
the standard of right; virtue; as, we often admire the politeness of
men whose morality we question.

5. A kind of allegorical play, so termed because it consisted of
discourses in praise of morality between actors representing such
characters as Charity, Faith, Death, Vice, etc. Such plays were
occasionally exhibited as late as the reign of Henry VIII. Strutt.

6. Intent; meaning; moral. [Obs.]
Taketh the morality thereof, good men. Chaucer.

MORALIZATION
Mor`al*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. moralisation.]

1. The act of moralizing; moral reflections or discourse.

2. Explanation in a moral sense. T. Warton.

MORALIZE
Mor"al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Moralized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Moralizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. moraliser.]

1. To apply to a moral purpose; to explain in a moral sense; to draw
a moral from.
This fable is moralized in a common proverb. L'Estrange.
Did he not moralize this spectacle Shak.

2. To furnish with moral lessons, teachings, or examples; to lend a
moral to.
While chastening thoughts of sweetest use, bestowed By Wisdom,
moralize his pensive road. Wordsworth.

3. To render moral; to correct the morals of.
It had a large share in moralizing the poor white people of the
country. D. Ramsay.

4. To give a moral quality to; to affect the moral quality of, either
for better or worse.
Good and bad stars moralize not our actions. Sir T. Browne.

MORALIZE
Mor"al*ize, v. i.

Defn: To make moral reflections; to regard acts and events as
involving a moral.

MORALIZER
Mor"al*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who moralizes.

MORALLY
Mor"al*ly, adv.

1. In a moral or ethical sense; according to the rules of morality.
By good, good morally so called, "bonum honestum" ought chiefly to be
understood. South.

2. According to moral rules; virtuously. "To live morally." Dryden.

3. In moral qualities; in disposition and character; as, one who
physically and morally endures hardships.

4. In a manner calculated to serve as the basis of action; according
to the usual course of things and human judgment; according to reason
and probability.
It is morally impossible for an hypocrite to keep himself long upon
his guard. L'Estrange.

MORASS
Mo*rass", n. Etym: [OE. marras, mareis (perh. through D. moeras), fr.
F. marais, prob. from L. mare sea, in LL., any body of water; but
perh. influenced by some German word. See Mere a lake, and cf.
Marsh.]

Defn: A tract of soft, wet ground; a marsh; a fen. Morass ore. (Min.)
See Bog ore, under Bog.

MORASSY
mo*rass"y, a.

Defn: Marshy; fenny. [R.] Pennant.

MORATE
Mo"rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of moric acid.

MORATION
Mo*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. moratio.]

Defn: A delaying tarrying; delay. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

MORATORIUM
Mor`a*to"ri*um, n. [NL. See Moratory.] (Law)

Defn: A period during which an obligor has a legal right to delay
meeting an obligation, esp. such a period granted, as to a bank, by a
moratory law.

MORATORY
Mor"a*to*ry, a. [L. moratorius delaying, fr. morari to delay.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to delay; esp., designating a law passed, as
in a time of financial panic, to postpone or delay for a period the
time at which notes, bills of exchange, and other obligations, shall
mature or become due.

MORAVIAN
Mo*ra"vi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Moravia, or to the United Brethren. See
Moravian, n.

MORAVIAN
Mo*ra"vi*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a religious sect called the United Brethern (an offshoot
of the Hussites in Bohemia), which formed a separate church of
Moravia, a northern district of Austria, about the middle of the 15th
century. After being nearly extirpated by persecution, the society,
under the name of The Renewed Church of the United Brethren, was
reëstablished in 1722-35 on the estates of Count Zinzendorf in
Saxony. Called also Herrnhuter.

MORAVIANISM
Mo*ra"vi*an*ism, n.

Defn: The religious system of the Moravians.

MORAY
Mor"ay, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A muræna.

MORBID
Mor"bid, a. Etym: [L. morbidus, fr. morbus disease; prob. akin to
mori to die: cf. F. morbide, It. morbido. See Mortal.]

1. Not sound and healthful; induced by a diseased or abnormal
condition; diseased; sickly; as, morbid humors; a morbid
constitution; a morbid state of the juices of a plant. "Her sick and
morbid heart." Hawthorne.

2. Of or pertaining to disease or diseased parts; as, morbid anatomy.

Syn.
 -- Diseased; sickly; sick.
 -- Morbid, Diseased. Morbid is sometimes used interchangeably with
diseased, but is commonly applied, in a somewhat technical sense, to
cases of a prolonged nature; as, a morbid condition of the nervous
system; a morbid sensibility, etc.

MORBIDEZZA
Mor`bi*dez"za, n. Etym: [It., softness, delicacy. See Morbid.]

1. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Delicacy or softness in the representation of flesh.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A term used as a direction in execution, signifying, with
extreme delicacy. Ludden.

MORBIDITY
Mor*bid"i*ty, n.

1. The quality or state of being morbid.

2. Morbid quality; disease; sickness. C. Kingsley.

3. Amount of disease; sick rate.

MORBIDLY
Mor"bid*ly, adv.

Defn: In a morbid manner.

MORBIDNESS
Mor"bid*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being morbid; morbidity.

MORBIFIC; MORBIFICAL
Mor*bif"ic, Mor*bif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. morbus disease + -ficare (in
comp.) to make: cf. F. morbifique. See -fy.]

Defn: Causing disease; generating a sickly state; as, a morbific
matter.

MORBILLOUS
Mor*bil"lous, a. Etym: [LL. morbilli measles, dim. of L. morbus
disease: cf. F. morbilleux.]

Defn: Pertaining to the measles; partaking of the nature of measels,
or resembling the eruptions of that disease; measly.

MORBOSE
Mor*bose", a. Etym: [L. morbosus, fr. morbus disease.]

Defn: Proceeding from disease; morbid; unhealthy.
Morbose tumors and excrescences of plants. Ray.

MORBOSITY
Mor*bos"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. morbositas.]

Defn: A diseased state; unhealthiness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

MORCEAU
Mor`ceau", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A bit; a morsel.

MORDACIOUS
Mor*da"cious, a. Etym: [L. mordax, -acis, fr. mordere, morsum, to
bite. See Morsel.]

Defn: Biting; given to biting; hence, figuratively, sarcastic;
severe; scathing.
 -- Mor*da"cious*ly, adv.

MORDACITY
Mor*dac"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. mordacitas: cf. F. mordacité. See
Mordacious.]

Defn: The quality of being mordacious; biting severity, or sarcastic
quality. Bacon.

MORDANT
Mor"dant, a. Etym: [F., p.pr. of mordere to bite; L. mordere. See
Morsel.]

1. Biting; caustic; sarcastic; keen; severe.

2. (Dyeing & Calico Printing)

Defn: Serving to fix colors.

MORDANT
Mor"dant, n. Etym: [F., originally, biting.]

1. Any corroding substance used in etching.

2. (Dyeing & Calico Printing)

Defn: Any substance, as alum or copperas, which, having a twofold
attraction for organic fibers and coloring matter, serves as a bond
of union, and thus gives fixity to, or bites in, the dyes.

3. (Gilding)

Defn: Any sticky matter by which the gold leaf is made to adhere.

MORDANT
Mor"dant, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mordanted; p. pr. & vb. n. Mordanting.]

Defn: To subject to the action of, or imbue with, a mordant; as, to
mordant goods for dyeing.

MORDANTLY
Mor"dant*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a mordant.

MORDENTE
Mor*den"te, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: An embellishment resembling a trill.

MORDICANCY
Mor"di*can*cy, n.

Defn: A biting quality; corrosiveness. [R.] Evelyn.

MORDICANT
Mor"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. mordicans, p.pr. of mordicare to bite, fr.
mordere: cf. F. mordicant.]

Defn: Biting; acrid; as, the mordicant quality of a body. [R.] Boyle.

MORDICATION
Mor`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. mordicatio.]

Defn: The act of biting or corroding; corrosion. [R.] Bacon.

MORDICATIVE
Mor"di*ca*tive, a. Etym: [L. mordicativus.]

Defn: Biting; corrosive. [R.] Holland.

MORE
More, n. Etym: [AS. mor. See Moor a waste.]

Defn: A hill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

MORE
More, n. Etym: [AS. more, moru; akin to G. möhre carrot, OHG. moraha,
morha.]

Defn: A root. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MORE
More, a., compar. [Positive wanting; superl. Most (.] Etym: [OE.
more, mare, and (orig. neut. and adv.) mo, ma, AS. mara, and (as
neut. and adv.) ma; akin to D. meer, OS. mer, G. mehr, OHG. mero,
mer, Icel. meiri, meirr, Dan. meere, meer, Sw. mera, mer, Goth.
maiza, a., mais, adv., and perh. to L. major greater, compar. of
magnus great, and magis, adv., more. sq. root103. Cf. Most, uch,
Major.]

1. Greater; superior; increased; as:
(a) Greater in quality, amount, degree, quality, and the like; with
the singular.
He gat more money. Chaucer.
If we procure not to ourselves more woe. Milton.

Note: More, in this sense, was formerly used in connection with some
other qualifying word, -- a, the, this, their, etc., -- which now
requires the substitution of greater, further, or the like, for more.
Whilst sisters nine, which dwell on Parnasse height, Do make them
music for their more delight. Spenser.
The more part knew not wherefore they were come together. Acts xix.
32.
Wrong not that wrong with a more contempt. Shak.

(b) Greater in number; exceeding in numbers; -- with the plural.
The people of the children of Israel are more and mighter than we.
Ex. i. 9.

2. Additional; other; as, he wept because there were no more words to
conquer.
With open arms received one poet more. Pope.

MORE
More, n.

1. A greater quantity, amount, or number; that which exceeds or
surpasses in any way what it is compared with.
And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, some
less. Ex. xvi. 17.

2. That which is in addition; something other and further; an
additional or greater amount.
They that would have more and more can never have enough. L'Estrange.
O! That pang where more than madness lies. Byron.
Any more. (a) Anything or something additional or further; as, I do
not need any more. (b) Adverbially: Further; beyond a certain time;
as, do not think any more about it.
 -- No more, not anything more; nothing in addition.
 -- The more and less, the high and low. [Obs.] Shak. "All cried,
both less and more." Chaucer.

MORE
More, adv.

1. In a greater quantity; in or to a greater extent or degree.
(a) With a verb or participle.
Admiring more The riches of Heaven's pavement. Milton.

(b) With an adjective or adverb (instead of the suffix -er) to form
the comparative degree; as, more durable; more active; more sweetly.
Happy here, and more happy hereafter. Bacon.

Note: Double comparatives were common among writers of the Elizabeth
period, and for some time later; as, more brighter; more dearer.
The duke of Milan And his more braver daughter. Shak.

2. In addition; further; besides; again.
Yet once more, Oye laurels, and once more, Ye myrtles brown, with ivy
never sere, I come to pluck your berries harsh and crude. Milton.
More and more, with continual increase. "Amon trespassed more and
more." 2 Chron. xxxiii. 23.
 -- The more, to a greater degree; by an added quantity; for a reason
already specified.
 -- The more -- the more, by how much more -- by so much more. "The
more he praised in himself, the more he seems to suspect that in very
deed it was not in him." Milton.
 -- To be no more, to have ceased to be; as, Cassius is no more; Troy
is no more.
Those oracles which set the world in flames, Nor ceased to burn till
kingdoms were no more. Byron.

MORE
More, v. t.

Defn: To make more; to increase. [Obs.] Gower.

MOREEN
Mo*reen", n. Etym: [Cf. Mohair.]

Defn: A thick woolen fabric, watered or with embossed figures; --
used in upholstery, for curtains, etc.

MOREL
Mor"el, n. Etym: [See Moril.] (Bot.)

Defn: An edible fungus (Morchella esculenta), the upper part of which
is covered with a reticulated and pitted hymenium. It is used as
food, and for flavoring sauces. [Written also moril.]

MOREL
Mor"el, n. Etym: [See Morelle.] (Bot.)

1. Nightshade; -- so called from its blackish purple berries.
[Written also morelle.]

2. A kind of cherry. See Morello. Great morel, the deadly nightshade.
 -- Petty morel, the black nightshade. See Nightshade.

MORELAND
More"land, n.

Defn: Moorland.

MORELLE
Mo*relle", n. Etym: [F., orig. fem. of moreau black, OF. morel, fr.
LL. morellus. Cf. Morello, Murrey.] (Bot.)

Defn: Nightshade. See 2d Morel.

MORELLO
Mo*rel"lo, n. Etym: [Cf. It. morello blackish, OF. morel. Cf.
Morelle.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of nearly black cherry with dark red flesh and juice, --
used chiefly for preserving.

MORENDO
Mo*ren"do, a. & n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Dying; a gradual decrescendo at the end of a strain or cadence.

MORENESS
More"ness, n.

Defn: Greatness. [Obs.] Wyclif.

MOREOVER
More*o"ver, adv. Etym: [More + over.]

Defn: Beyond what has been said; further; besides; in addition;
furthermore; also; likewise.
Moreover, he hath left you all his walks. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Besides, Moreover. Of the two words, moreover is the stronger and
is properly used in solemn discourse, or when what is added is
important to be considered. See Besides.

MOREPORK
More"pork`, n. Etym: [So named from its cry.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Australian crested goatsucker (Ægotheles Novæ-Hollandiæ).
Also applied to other allied birds, as Podargus Cuveiri.

MORES
Mo"res (mo"rez), n. pl.; sing. Mos (mos). [L.]

Defn: Customs; habits; esp., customs conformity to which is more or
less obligatory; customary law.

MORESK
Mo*resk", a. & n.

Defn: Moresque. [Obs.]

MORESQUE
Mo*resque", a. Etym: [F., fr. It. moresco, or Sp. morisco. See
Morris.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or in the manner or style of, the Moors;
Moorish.
 -- n.

Defn: The Moresque style of architecture or decoration. See Moorish
architecture, under Moorish. [Written also mauresque.]

MORGAN
Mor"gan, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a celebrated breed of American trotting horses; -- so
called from the name of the stud from which the breed originated in
Vermont.

MORGANATIC
Mor`ga*nat"ic, a. Etym: [LL. matrimonium ad morganaticam, fr.
morganatica a morning gift, a kind of dowry paid on the morning
before or after the marriage, fr. OHG. morgan morning, in morgangeba
morning gift, G. morgengabe. See Morn.]

Defn: Pertaining to, in the manner of, or designating, a kind of
marriage, called also left-handed marriage, between a man of superior
rank and a woman of inferior, in which it is stipulated that neither
the latter nor her children shall enjoy the rank or inherit the
possessions of her husband. Brande & C.
 -- Mor`ga*nat"ic*al*ly, adv.

MORGAY
Mor"gay, n. Etym: [W. morgi dogfish, shark; mor sea + ci dog.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The European small-spotted dogfish, or houndfish. See the Note
under Houndfish.

MORGLAY
Mor"glay, n. Etym: [Cf. Claymore.]

Defn: A sword. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

MORGUE
Morgue, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A place where the bodies of persons found dead are exposed,
that they may be identified, or claimed by their friends; a
deadhouse.

MORIA
Mo"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: Idiocy; imbecility; fatuity; foolishness.

MORIAN
Mo"ri*an, n. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A Moor. [Obs.]
In vain the Turks and Morians armed be. Fairfax.

MORIBUND
Mor"i*bund, a. Etym: [L. moribundus, from moriri to die. See Mortal.]

Defn: In a dying state; dying; at the point of death.
The patient was comatose and moribund. Copland.

MORIBUND
Mor"i*bund, n.

Defn: A dying person. [R.]

MORIC
Mo"ric, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, fustic (see Morin); as, moric
acid.

MORICE
Mor"ice, n.

Defn: See Morisco.

MORIGERATE
Mo*rig"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. morigeratus, p.p. of morigerari to comply
with. See Morigerous.]

Defn: Obedient. [Obs.]

MORIGERATION
Mo*rig`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. morigeratio.]

Defn: Obsequiousness; obedience. [Obs.] Evelyn.

MORIGEROUS
Mo*rig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. morigerus; oss, moris, custom, manner +
gerere to bear, conduct.]

Defn: Obedient; obsequious. [Obs.] Brathwait.

MORIL
Mor"il, n. Etym: [F. morille; cf. OHG. morhila, G. morchel, OHG.
morha carrot. See More a root.] (Bot.)

Defn: An edible fungus. Same as 1st Morel.

MORIN
Mo"rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow crystalline substance of acid properties extracted
from fustic (Maclura tinctoria, formerly called Morus tinctoria); --
called also moric acid.

MORINDA
Mo*rin"da, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of rubiaceous trees and shrubs, mostly East Indian,
many species of which yield valuable red and yellow dyes. The wood is
hard and beautiful, and used for gunstocks.

MORINDIN
Mo*rin"din, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow dyestuff extracted from the root bark of an East
Indian plant (Morinda citrifolia).

MORINEL
Mor"i*nel`, n. Etym: [Cf. F. morinelle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dotterel.

MORINGA
Mo*rin"ga, n. Etym: [Malayam murunggi.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees of Southern India and Northern Africa. One
species (Moringa pterygosperma) is the horse-radish tree, and its
seeds, as well as those of M. aptera, are known in commerce as ben or
ben nuts, and yield the oil called oil of ben.

MORINGIC
Mo*rin"gic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Designating an organic acid obtained from oil of ben. See
Moringa.

MORINTANNIC
Mo`rin*tan"nic, a. Etym: [NL. Morus fustic + E. tannic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a variety of tannic acid
extracted from fustic (Maclura, formerly Morus, tinctoria) as a
yellow crystalline substance; -- called also maclurin.

MORION
Mo"ri*on, n. Etym: [F. morion, Sp. morrion; cf. Sp. morra the upper
part of the head, morro anything that is round.]

Defn: A kind of open helmet, without visor or beaver, and somewhat
resembling a hat.
A battered morion on his brow. Sir W. Scott.

MORION
Mo"ri*on, n. Etym: [G.] (Min.)

Defn: A dark variety of smoky quartz.

MORIOPLASTY
Mo"ri*o*plas`ty, n. Etym: [Gr. -plasty.] (Surg.)

Defn: The restoration of lost parts of the body.

MORISCO
Mo*ris"co, a. Etym: [Sp. See Morris the dance.]

Defn: Moresque.

MORISCO
Mo*ris"co, n. Etym: [Sp. morisco Moorish.]

Defn: A thing of Moorish origin; as: (a) The Moorish language. (b) A
Moorish dance, now called morris dance. Marston. (c) One who dances
the Moorish dance. Shak. (d) Moresque decoration or architecture.

MORISK
Mo"risk, n.

Defn: Same as Morisco.

MORKIN
Mor"kin, n. Etym: [Akin to Sw. murken putrefied, Icel. morkinn
putrid.]

Defn: A beast that has died of disease or by mischance. [Obs.] Bp.
Hall.

MORLAND
Mor"land, n.

Defn: Moorland. [Obs.]

MORLING
Mor"ling, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mort dead, L. mortuus, fr. moriri to die.]

Defn: Mortling. [Eng.] Ainsworth.

MORMAL
Mor"mal, n. Etym: [F. mort-mai a deadly evil. Nares.]

Defn: A bad sore; a gangrene; a cancer. [Obs.] [Written also morrimal
and mortmal.] Chaucer.

MORMO
Mor"mo, n. Etym: [Gr. mormw` a hideous she-monster, a bugbear.]

Defn: A bugbear; false terror. [Obs.] Jonhson.

MORMON
Mor"mon, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) A genus of sea birds, having a large, thick bill; the puffin.
(b) The mandrill.

MORMON
Mor"mon, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: One of a sect in the United States, followers of Joseph Smith,
who professed to have found an addition to the Bible, engraved on
golden plates, called the Book of Mormon, first published in 1830.
The Mormons believe in polygamy, and their hierarchy of apostles,
etc., has control of civil and religious matters.

Note: The Mormons call their religious organization The Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Its head claims to receive
revelations of God's will, and to have certain supernatural powers.

MORMON
Mor"mon, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Mormons; as, the Mormon religion;
Mormon practices.

MORMONDOM
Mor"mon*dom, n.

Defn: The country inhabited by the Mormons; the Mormon people.

MORMONISM
Mor"mon*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine, system, and practices of the Mormons.

MORMONITE
Mor"mon*ite, n.

Defn: A Mormon.
 -- a.

Defn: Mormon. "Mormonite religion." F. W. Newman.

MORN
Morn, n. Etym: [OE. morwen, morgen, AS. morgen; akin to D. morgen,
OS. morgan, G. morgen, Icel. morginn, morgunn, Sw. morgon, Dan.
morgen, Goth. maúrgins. Cf. Morrow, Morning.]

Defn: The first part of the day; the morning; -- used chiefly in
poetry.
From morn To noun he fell, from noon to dewy eve. Milton.

MORNE
Mor"ne, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the morn; morning. [Obs.] "White as morne
milk." Chaucer.

MORNE
Morne, n. Etym: [F., fr. morne sad, sorrowful. See Mourn.]

Defn: A ring fitted upon the head of a lance to prevent wounding an
adversary in titling.

MORNE
Mor`né", a. Etym: [F., fr. morne a morne.] (Her.)

Defn: Without teeth, tongue, or claws; -- said of a lion represented
heraldically.

MORNE
Morne, n. Etym: [OE. morning, morwening. See Morn.]

1. The first or early part of the day, variously understood as the
earliest hours of light, the time near sunrise; the time from
midnight to noon, from rising to noon, etc.

2. The first or early part; as, the morning of life.

3. The goddess Aurora. [Poetic] Shak.

MORNING
Morn"ing, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the first part or early part of the day; being in
the early part of the day; as, morning dew; morning light; morning
service.
She looks as clear As morning roses newly washed with dew. Shak.
Morning gown, a gown worn in the morning before one is dressed for
the day.
 -- Morning gun, a gun fired at the first stroke of reveille at
military posts.
 -- Morning sickness (Med.), nausea and vomiting, usually occurring
in the morning; -- a common sign of pregnancy.
 -- Morning star. (a) Any one of the planets (Venus, Jupiter, Mars,
or Saturn) when it precedes the sun in rising, esp. Venus. Cf.
Evening star, Evening. (b) Satan. See Lucifer.
Since he miscalled the morning star, Nor man nor fiend hath fallen so
far. Byron.
(c) A weapon consisting of a heavy ball set with spikes, either
attached to a staff or suspended from one by a chain.
 -- Morning watch (Naut.), the watch between four A. M. and eight A.
M..

MORNING-GLORY
Morn"ing-glo`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A climbing plant (Ipomoea purpurea) having handsome, funnel-
shaped flowers, usually red, pink, purple, white, or variegated,
sometimes pale blue. See Dextrorsal.

MORNINGTIDE
Morn"ing*tide`, n.

Defn: Morning time. [Poetic]

MORNWARD
Morn"ward, adv.

Defn: Towards the morn. [Poetic]
And mornward now the starry hands move on. Lowell.

MORO
Mo"ro, n. Etym: [Cf. It. mora mulberry, L. morum.] (Med.)

Defn: A small abscess or tumor having a resemblance to a mulberry.
Dunglison.

MOROCCAN
Mo*roc"can, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Morocco, or its inhabitants.

MOROCCO
Mo*roc"co, n. Etym: [Named from Morocco, the country. Cf. Morris the
dance.]

Defn: A fine kind of leather, prepared commonly from goatskin (though
an inferior kind is made of sheepskin), and tanned with sumac and
dyed of various colors; -- said to have been first made by the Moors.

MOROLOGY
Mo*rol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Foolish talk; nonsense; folly. [Obs.]

MORON
Mo"ron, n. (Pedagogy)

Defn: A person whose intellectual development proceeds normally up to
about the eighth year of age and is then arrested so that there is
little or no further development.

MORON
Mo*ron", n.; Sp. pl. Morones (#). [Sp.]

Defn: An inferior olive size having a woody pulp and a large
clingstone pit, growing in the mountainous and high-valley districts
around the city of Moron, in Spain.

MORONE
Mo*rone", n.

Defn: Maroon; the color of an unripe black mulberry.

MOROS
Mo"ros, n. pl.; sing. Moro. [Sp., pl. of Moro Moor.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: The Mohammedan tribes of the southern Philippine Islands, said
to have formerly migrated from Borneo. Some of them are warlike and
addicted to piracy.

MOROSAURUS
Mo`ro*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of large herbivorous dinosaurs, found in
Jurassic strata in America.

MOROSE
Mo*rose", a. Etym: [L. morosus, prop., excessively addicted to any
particular way or habit, fr. mos, moris, manner, habit, way of life:
cf. F. morose.]

1. Of a sour temper; sullen and austere; ill-humored; severe. "A
morose and affected taciturnity." I. Watts.

2. Lascivious; brooding over evil thoughts. [Obs.]

Syn.
 -- Sullen; gruff; severe; austere; gloomy; crabbed; crusty;
churlish; surly; ill-humored.

MOROSELY
Mo*rose"ly, adv.

Defn: Sourly; with sullen austerity.

MOROSENESS
Mo*rose"ness, n.

Defn: Sourness of temper; sulenness.
Learn good humor, never to oppose without just reason; abate some
degrees of pride and moroseness. I. Watts.

Note: Moroseness is not precisely peevishness or fretfulness, though
often accompained with it. It denotes more of silence and severity,
or ill-humor, than the irritability or irritation which characterizes
peevishness.

MOROSIS
Mo*ro"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Idiocy; fatuity; stupidity.

MOROSITY
Mo*ros"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. morositas: cf. F. morosité.]

Defn: Moroseness. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

MOROSOPH
Mo"ro*soph, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A philosophical or learned fool. [Obs.]

MOROSOUS
Mo*ro"sous, a.

Defn: Morose. [Obs.] Sheldon.

MOROXITE
Mo*rox"ite, n. Etym: [Cf. Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of apatite of a greenish blue color.

MOROXYLATE
Mo*rox"y*late, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A morate.

MOROXYLIC
Mor`ox*yl"ic, a. Etym: [L. morus a mulberry tree + Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the mulberry; moric.

MORPHEAN
Mor"phe*an, a.

Defn: Of or relating to Morpheus, to dreams, or to sleep. Keats.

MORPHEUS
Mor"pheus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The god of dreams.

MORPHEW
Mor"phew, n. Etym: [F. morpheé, LL. morphea; cf. It. morfea.]

Defn: A scurfy eruption. [Obs.] Drayton.

MORPHEW
Mor"phew, v. t.

Defn: To cover with a morphew. [Obs.]

MORPHIA
Mor"phi*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Chem.)

Defn: Morphine.

MORPHINE
Mor"phine, n. Etym: [From Morpheus: cf. F. morphine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter white crystalline alkaloid found in opium, possessing
strong narcotic properties, and much used as an anodyne; -- called
also morphia, and morphina.

MORPHINISM
Mor"phin*ism, n. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition produced by the excessive or prolonged use
of morphine.

MORPHO
Mor"pho, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of large, handsome, tropical
American butterflies, of the genus Morpho. They are noted for the
very brilliant metallic luster and bright colors (often blue) of the
upper surface of the wings. The lower surface is usually brown or
gray, with eyelike spots.

MORPHOGENY
Mor*phog"e*ny, n. Etym: [form + root of (Biol.)

Defn: History of the evolution of forms; that part of ontogeny that
deals with the germ history of forms; -- distinguished from
physiogeny. Haeckel.

MORPHOLOGIC; MORPHOLOGICAL
Mor`pho*log"ic, Mor`pho*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. morphologique.]
(Biol.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or according to, the principles of
morphology.
 -- Mor`pho*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

MORPHOLOGIST
Mor*phol"o*gist, n. (Biol.)

Defn: One who is versed in the science of morphology.

MORPHOLOGY
Mor*phol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. morphologie.] (Biol.)

Defn: That branch of biology which deals with the structure of
animals and plants, treating of the forms of organs and describing
their varieties, homologies, and metamorphoses. See Tectology, and
Promorphology.

MORPHON
Mor"phon, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A morphological individual, characterized by definiteness of
form bion, a physiological individual. See Tectology. Haeckel.

Note: Of morphons there are six orders or categories: 1. Plastids or
elementary organisms. 2. Organs, homoplastic or heteroplastic. 3.
Antimeres (opposite or symmetrical or homotypic parts). 4. Metameres
(successive or homodynamous parts). 5. Personæ (shoots or buds of
plants, individuals in the narrowest sense among the higher animals).
6. Corms (stocks or colonies). For orders 2, 3, and 4 the term
idorgan has been recently substituted. See Idorgan.

MORPHONOMY
Mor*phon"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The laws of organic formation.

MORPHOPHYLY
Mor"pho*phy`ly, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The tribal history of forms; that part of phylogeny which
treats of the tribal history of forms, in distinction from the tribal
history of functions. Haeckel.

MORPHOSIS
Mor*pho"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The order or mode of development of an organ or part.

MORPHOTIC
Mor*phot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Connected with, or becoming an integral part of, a living unit
or of the morphological framework; as, morphotic, or tissue,
proteids. Foster.

-MORPHOUS
-mor"phous. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form denoting form, shape; as, isomorphous.

MORPION
Mor"pi*on, n. Etym: [F., fr. mordre to bite + L. pedis louse.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A louse. Hudibras.

MORRICE
Mor"rice, n.

Defn: Same as 1st Morris.

MORRICE
Mor"rice, a.

Defn: Dancing the morrice; dancing.
In shoals and bands, a morrice train. Wordsworth.

MORRICER
Mor"ri*cer, n.

Defn: A morris dancer. [Obs.]

MORRIMAL
Mor"ri*mal, n. & a.

Defn: See Mormal.

MORRIS
Mor"ris, n. Etym: [Sp. morisco Moorish, fr. Moro a Moor: cf. F.
moresque, It. moresca.]

1. A Moorish dance, usually performed by a single dancer, who
accompanies the dance with castanets.

2. A dance formerly common in England, often performed in pagenats,
processions, and May games. The dancers, grotesquely dressed and
ornamented, took the parts of Robin Hood, Maidmarian, and other
fictious characters.

3. An old game played with counters, or men, which are placed angles
of a figure drawn on a board or on the ground; also, the board or
ground on which the game is played.
The nine-men's morris is filled up with mud. Shak.

Note: The figure consists of three concentric squares, with lines
from the angles of the outer one to those of the inner, and from the
middle of each side of the outer square to that of the inner. The
game is played by two persons with nine or twelve pieces each (hence
called nine-men's morris or twelve-men's morris). The pieces are
placed alternately, and each player endeavors to prevent his opponent
from making a straight row of three. Should either succeed in making
a row, he may take up one of his opponent's pieces, and he who takes
off all of his opponent's pieces wins the game.

MORRIS
Mor"ris, n. Etym: [So called from its discoverer.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine fish having a very slender, flat, transparent body. It
is now generally believed to be the young of the conger eel or some
allied fish.

MORRIS-CHAIR
Mor"ris-chair`, n. [Prob. fr. the proper name Morris.]

Defn: A kind of easy-chair with a back which may be lowered or
raised.

MORRIS-PIKE
Mor"ris-pike`, n.

Defn: A Moorish pike. [Obs.]

MORRO
Mor"ro, n. [Sp., any spherical object.]

Defn: A round hill or point of land; hence, Morro castle, a castle on
a hill.

MORROT
Mor"rot, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Marrot.

MORROW
Mor"row, n. Etym: [OE. morwe, morwen, AS. morgen. See Morn.]

1. Morning. [Obs.] "White as morrow's milk." Bp. Hall.
We loved he by the morwe a sop in wine. Chaucer.

2. The next following day; the day subsequent to any day specified or
understood. Lev. vii. 16.
Till this stormy night is gone, And the eternal morrow dawn. Crashaw.

3. The day following the present; to-morrow. Good morrow, good
morning; -- a form of salutation.
 -- To morrow. See To-morrow in the Vocabulary.

MORSE
Morse, n. Etym: [F. morse, Russ. morj'; perh. akin to E. mere lake;
cf. Russ. more sea.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The walrus. See Walrus.

MORSE
Morse, n. Etym: [L. morsus a biting, a clasp, fr. mordere to bite.]

Defn: A clasp for fastening garments in front. Fairholt.

MORSE ALPHABET
Morse" al"pha*bet.

Defn: A telegraphic alphabet in very general use, inventing by Samuel
F.B.Morse, the inventor of Morse's telegraph. The letters are
represented by dots and dashes impressed or printed on paper, as, .-
(A), -... (B), -.. (D), . (E), .. (O), ... (R), -- (T), etc., or by
sounds, flashes of light, etc., with greater or less intervals
between them.

MORSE CODE
Morse" code". (Teleg.)

Defn: The telegraphic code, consisting of dots, dashes, and spaces,
invented by Samuel B. Morse. The Alphabetic code which is in use in
North America is given below. In length, or duration, one dash is
theoretically equal to three dots; the space between the elements of
a letter is equal to one dot; the interval in spaced letters, as O .
., is equal to three dots. There are no spaces in any letter composed
wholly or in part of dashes.

Alphabet

A .-          H ....       O . .          V ...-

B - . . .     I ..         P .....        W .--

C .. .        J -.-.       Q ..-.         X .-..

D -..         K -.-        R . ..         Y .. ..

E .           L ---    S ...          Z ... .

F .-.         M --         T --           & . ...

G --.         N -.         U ..-

Numerals

1 .--.        4 . . . .-          7 --..

2 ..-..       5 ---               8 - . . . .

3 . . . -.    6 . . . . . .       9 -..-

0 ----     Period ..--..   Comma .-.-

The International (Morse) code used elsewhere is the same as the
above with the following exceptions.

C -.-.     L .-..     Q --.-     Y -.--

F ..-.     O ---      R .-.      Z --..

J .---     P .--.     X -..-
The Morse code is used chiefly with the electric telegraph, but is
also employed in signalling with flags, lights, etc.

MORSEL
Mor"sel, n. Etym: [OF. morsel, F. morceau, LL. morsellus, a dim. fr.
L. morsus a biting, bite, fr. mordere to bite; prob. akin to E.
smart. See Smart, and cf. Morceau, Mordant, Muse, v., Muzzle, n.]

1. A little bite or bit of food. Chaucer.
Every morsel to a satisfied hunger is only a new labor to a tired
digestion. South.

2. A small quantity; a little piece; a fragment.

MORSING HORN
Mor"sing horn`.

Defn: A horn or flask for holding powder, as for priming. [Scot.] Sir
W. Scott.

MORSITATION
Mor`si*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of biting or gnawing. [Obs.]

MORSURE
Mor"sure, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. mordere, morsum, to bite.]

Defn: The act of biting. Swift.

MORT
Mort, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. margt, neut. of margr many.]

Defn: A great quantity or number. [Prov. Eng.]
There was a mort of merrymaking. Dickens.

MORT
Mort, n. Etym: [Etym. uncert.]

Defn: A woman; a female. [Cant]
Male gypsies all, not a mort among them. B. Jonson.

MORT
Mort, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A salmon in its third year. [Prov. Eng.]

MORT
Mort, n. Etym: [F., death, fr. L. mors, mortis.]

1. Death; esp., the death of game in the chase.

2. A note or series of notes sounded on a horn at the death of game.
The sportsman then sounded a treble mort. Sir W. Scott.

3. The skin of a sheep or lamb that has died of disease. [Prov. Eng.
& Scot.] Mort cloth, the pall spread over a coffin; black cloth
indicative or mourning; funeral hangings. Carlyle.
 -- Mort stone, a large stone by the wayside on which the bearers
rest a coffin. [Eng.] H. Taylor.

MORTAL
Mor"tal, a. Etym: [F. mortel, L. mortalis, from mors, mortis, death,
fr. moriri 8die; akin to E. murder. See Murder, and cf. Filemot, Mere
a lake, Mortgage.]

1. Subject to death; destined to die; as, man is mortal.

2. Destructive to life; causing or occasioning death; terminating
life; exposing to or deserving death; deadly; as, a mortal wound; a
mortal sin.

3. Fatally vulnerable; vital.
Last of all, against himself he turns his sword, but missing the
mortal place, with his poniard finishes the work. Milton.

4. Of or pertaining to the time of death.
Safe in the hand of one disposing Power, Or in the natal or the
mortal hour. Pope.

5. Affecting as if with power to kill; deathly.
The nymph grew pale, and in a mortal fright. Dryden.

6. Human; belonging to man, who is mortal; as, mortal wit or
knowledge; mortal power.
The voice of God To mortal ear is dreadful. Milton.

7. Very painful or tedious; wearisome; as, a sermon lasting two
mortal hours. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott. Mortal foe, Mortal enemy, an
inveterate, desperate, or implacable enemy; a foe bent on one's
destruction.

MORTAL
Mor"tal, n.

Defn: A being subject to death; a human being; man. "Warn poor
mortals left behind." Tickell.

MORTALITY
Mor*tal"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. mortalitas: cf. F. mortalité.]

1. The condition or quality of being mortal; subjection to death or
to the necessity of dying.
When I saw her die, I then did think on your mortality. Carew.

2. Human life; the life of a mortal being.
From this instant There 's nothing serious in mortality. Shak.

3. Those who are, or that which is, mortal; the human cace; humanity;
human nature.
Take these tears, mortality's relief. Pope.

4. Death; destruction. Shak.

5. The whole sum or number of deaths in a given time or a given
community; also, the proportion of deaths to population, or to a
specific number of the population; death rate; as, a time of great,
or low, mortality; the mortality among the settlers was alarming.
Bill of mortality. See under Bill.
 -- Law of mortality, a mathematical relation between the numbers
living at different ages, so that from a given large number of
persons alive at one age, it can be computed what number are likely
to survive a given number of years.
 -- Table of mortality, a table exhibiting the average relative
number of persons who survive, or who have died, at the end of each
year of life, out of a given number supposed to have been born at the
same time.

MORTALIZE
Mor"tal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mortalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mortalizing.]

Defn: To make mortal. [R.]

MORTALLY
Mor"tal*ly, adv.

1. In a mortal manner; so as to cause death; as, mortally wounded.

2. In the manner of a mortal or of mortal beings.
I was mortally brought forth. Shak.

3. In an extreme degree; to the point of dying or causing death;
desperately; as, mortally jealous.
Adrian mortally envied poets, painters, and artificers, in works
wherein he had a vein to excel. Bacon.

MORTALNESS
Mor"tal*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being mortal; mortality.

MORTAR
Mor"tar, n. Etym: [OE. morter, AS. mortere, L. mortarium: cf. F.
mortier mortar. Cf. sense 2 (below), also 2d Mortar, Martel, Morter.]

1. A strong vessel, commonly in form of an inverted bell, in which
substances are pounded or rubbed with a pestle.

2. Etym: [F. mortier, fr. L. mortarium mortar (for trituarating).]
(Mil.)

Defn: A short piece of ordnance, used for throwing bombs, carcasses,
shells, etc., at high angles of elevation, as 45º, and even higher; -
- so named from its resemblance in shape to the utensil above
described. Mortar bed (Mil.), a framework of wood and iron, suitably
hollowed out to receive the breech and trunnions of a mortar.
 -- Mortar boat or vessel (Naut.), a boat strongly built and adapted
to carrying a mortar or mortars for bombarding; a bomb ketch.
 -- Mortar piece, a mortar. [Obs.] Shak.

MORTAR
Mor"tar, n. Etym: [OE. mortier, F. mortier, L. mortarium mortar, a
large basin or trough in which mortar is made, a mortar (in sense 1,
above). See 1st Mortar.] (Arch.)

Defn: A building material made by mixing lime, cement, or plaster of
Paris, with sand, water, and sometimes other materials; -- used in
masonry for joining stones, bricks, etc., also for plastering, and in
other ways. Mortar bed, a shallow box or receptacle in which mortar
is mixed.
 -- Mortar board. (a) A small square board with a handle beneath, for
holding mortar; a hawk. (b) A cap with a broad, projecting, square
top; -- worn by students in some colleges. [Slang]

MORTAR
Mor"tar, v. t.

Defn: To plaster or make fast with mortar.

MORTAR
Mor"tar, n. Etym: [F. mortier. See Mortar a vessel.]

Defn: A chamber lamp or light. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MORTGAGE
Mort"gage, n. Etym: [F. mort-gage; mort dead (L. mortuus) + gage
pledge. See Mortal, and Gage.]

1. (Law)

Defn: A conveyance of property, upon condition, as security for the
payment of a debt or the preformance of a duty, and to become void
upon payment or performance according to the stipulated terms; also,
the written instrument by which the conveyance is made.

Note: It was called a mortgage (or dead pledge) because, whatever
profit it might yield, it did not thereby redeem itself, but became
lost or dead to the mortgager upon breach of the condition. But in
equity a right of redemption is an inseparable incident of a mortgage
until the mortgager is debarred by his own laches, or by judicial
decree. Cowell. Kent.

2. State of being pledged; as, lands given in mortgage. Chattel
mortgage. See under Chattel.
 -- To foreclose a mortgage. See under Foreclose.
 -- Mortgage deed (Law), a deed given by way of mortgage.

MORTGAGE
Mort"gage, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mortgaged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mortgaging.]

1. (Law)

Defn: To grant or convey, as property, for the security of a debt, or
other engagement, upon a condition that if the debt or engagement
shall be discharged according to the contract, the conveyance shall
be void, otherwise to become absolute, subject, however, to the right
of redemption.

2. Hence: To pledge, either literally or figuratively; to make
subject to a claim or obligation.
Mortgaging their lives to covetise. Spenser.
I myself an mortgaged to thy will. Shak.

MORTGAGEE
Mort`ga*gee", n. (Law)

Defn: The person to whom property is mortgaged, or to whom a mortgage
is made or given.

MORTGAGEOR; MORTGAGOR
Mort"gage*or, Mort"ga*gor, n. (Law)

Defn: One who gives a mortgage.

Note: The letter e is required analogically after the second g in
order to soften it; but the spelling mortgagor is in fact the
prevailing form. When the word is contradistinguished from mortgagee
it is accented on the last syllable (

MORTGAGER
Mort"ga*ger, n. (Law)

Defn: gives a mortgage.

MORTIFEROUS
Mor"tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. mortifier; mors, mortis, death + ferre
to bring: cf. F. mortifère.]

Defn: Bringing or producing death; deadly; destructive; as, a
mortiferous herb. Gov. of Tongue.

MORTIFICATION
Mor`ti*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. mortificatio a killing. See
Mortify.]

1. The act of mortifying, or the condition of being mortified;
especially:
(a) (Med.) The death of one part of an animal body, while the rest
continues to live; loss of vitality in some part of a living animal;
gangrene. Dunglison.
(b) (Alchem. & Old Chem.) Destruction of active qualities;
neutralization. [Obs.] Bacon.
(c) Subjection of the passions and appetites, by penance, absistence,
or painful severities inflicted on the body.
The mortification of our lusts has something in it that is
troublesome, yet nothing that is unreasonable. Tillotson.

(d) Hence: Deprivation or depression of self-approval; abatement or
pride; humiliation; chagrin; vexation.
We had the mortification to lose sight of Munich, Augsburg, and
Ratisbon. Addison.

2. That which mortifies; the cause of humiliation, chagrin, or
vexation.
It is one of the vexatious mortifications of a studious man to have
his thoughts discovered by a tedious visit. L'Estrange.

3. (Scots Law)

Defn: A gift to some charitable or religious institution; -- nearly
synonymous with mortmain.

Syn.
 -- Chagrin; vexation; shame. See Chagrin.

MORTIFIED
Mor"ti*fied, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Mortify.

MORTIFIEDNESS
Mor"ti*fied*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being mortified; humiliation; subjection of the
passions. [R.]

MORTIFIER
Mor"ti*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, mortifies.

MORTIFY
Mor"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mortified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mortifying.] Etym: [OE. mortifien, F. mortifier, fr. L. mortificare;
L. mors, mortis, death + -ficare (in comp.) to make. See Mortal, and
-fy.]

1. To destroy the organic texture and vital functions of; to produce
gangrene in.

2. To destroy the active powers or essential qualities of; to change
by chemical action. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Quicksilver is mortified with turpentine. Bacon.
He mortified pearls in vinegar. Hakewill.

3. To deaden by religious or other discipline, as the carnal
affections, bodily appetites, or worldly desires; to bring into
subjection; to abase; to humble.
With fasting mortified, worn out with tears. Harte.
Mortify thy learned lust. Prior.
Mortify, rherefore, your members which are upon the earth. Col. iii.
5.

4. To affect with vexation, chagrin, or humiliation; to humble; to
depress.
The news of the fatal battle of Worcester, which exceedingly
mortified our expectations. Evelyn.
How often is the ambitious man mortified with the very praises he
receives, if they do not rise so high as he thinks they ought!
Addison.

MORTIFY
Mor"ti*fy, v. i.

1. To lose vitality and organic structure, as flesh of a living body;
to gangrene.

2. To practice penance from religious motives; to deaden desires by
religious discipline.
This makes him ... give alms of all that he hath, watch, fast, and
mortify. Law.

3. To be subdued; to decay, as appetites, desires, etc.

MORTIFYING
Mor"ti*fy`ing, a.

1. Tending to mortify; affected by, or having symptoms of,
mortification; as, a mortifying wound; mortifying flesh.

2. Subduing the appetites, desires, etc.; as, mortifying penances.

3. Tending to humble or abase; humiliating; as, a mortifying repulse.

MORTIFYINGLY
Mor"ti*fy`ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mortifying manner.

MORTISE
Mor"tise, n. Etym: [F. mortaise; cf. Sp. mortaja, Ar. murtazz fixed,
or W. mortais, Ir. mortis, moirtis, Gael. moirteis.]

Defn: A cavity cut into a piece of timber, or other material, to
receive something (as the end of another piece) made to fit it, and
called a tenon. Mortise and tenon (Carp.), made with a mortise and
tenon; joined or united by means of a mortise and tenon; -- used
adjectively.
 -- Mortise joint, a joint made by a mortise and tenon.
 -- Mortise lock. See under Lock.
 -- Mortise wheel, a cast-iron wheel, with wooden clogs inserted in
mortises on its face or edge; -- also called mortise gear, and core
gear.

MORTISE
Mor"tise, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mortised; p. pr. & vb. n. Mortising.]

1. To cut or make a mortisein.

2. To join or fasten by a tenon and mortise; as, to mortise a beam
into a post, or a joist into a girder.

MORTLING
Mort"ling, n. Etym: [See Morling.]

1. An animal, as a sheep, dead of disease or privation; a mortling.
[Eng.]

2. Wool plucked from a dead sheep; morling.

MORTMAIN
Mort"main`, n. Etym: [F. mort, morte, dead + main hand; F. main-
morte. See Mortal, and Manual.] (Law)

Defn: Possession of lands or tenements in, or conveyance to, dead
hands, or hands that cannot alienate.

Note: The term was originally applied to conveyance of land made to
ecclesiastical bodies; afterward to conveyance made to any corporate
body. Burrill.

MORTMAL
Mort"mal, n.

Defn: See Mormal. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

MORTPAY
Mort"pay`, n. Etym: [F. mort dead + E. pay.]

Defn: Dead pay; the crime of taking pay for the service of dead
soldiers, or for services not actually rendered by soldiers. [Obs.]
Bacon.

MORTRESS; MORTREW
Mor"tress, Mor"trew, n. Etym: [See Mortar.]

Defn: A dish of meats and other ingredients, cooked together; an
ollapodrida. Chaucer. Bacon.

MORTUARY
Mor"tu*a*ry, n.; pl. Mortuaries. Etym: [LL. mortuarium. See Mortuary,
a.]

1. A sort of ecclesiastical heriot, a customary gift claimed by, and
due to, the minister of a parish on the death of a parishioner. It
seems to have been originally a voluntary bequest or donation,
intended to make amends for any failure in the payment of tithes of
which the deceased had been guilty.

2. A burial place; a place for the dead.

3. A place for the reception of the dead before burial; a deadhouse;
a morgue.

MORTUARY
Mor"tu*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. mortuarius, fr. mortuus dead: cf. F.
mortuaire. See Mortal.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the dead; as, mortuary monuments. Mortuary
urn, an urn for holding the ashes of the dead.

MORULA
Mor"u*la, n.; pl. Morulæ. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. morum a mulberry.]
(Biol.)

Defn: The sphere or globular mass of cells (blastomeres), formed by
the clevage of the ovum or egg in the first stages of its
development; -- called also mulberry mass, segmentation sphere, and
blastosphere. See Segmentation.

MORULATION
Mor`u*la"tion, n. (Biol.)

Defn: The process of cleavage, or segmentation, of the ovum, by which
a morula is formed.

MORUS
Mo"rus, n. Etym: [L., mulberry tree. See Mulberry.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees, some species of which produce edible fruit;
the mulberry. See Mulberry.

Note: Morus alba is the white mulberry, a native of India or China,
the leaves of which are extensively used for feeding silkworms, for
which it furnishes the chief food.
 -- Morus multicaulis, the many-stemmed or Chinese mulberry, is only
a form of white mulberry, preferred on account of its more abundant
leaves.
 -- Morus nigra, the black mulberry, produces a dark-colored fruit,
of an agreeable flavor.

MORWE
Mor"we, n.

Defn: See Morrow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MORWENING
Mor"wen*ing, n.

Defn: Morning. [Obs.]

MOS
Mos, n.,

Defn: sing. of Mores.

MOSAIC
Mo*sa"ic, n. Etym: [F. mosaïque; cf. Pr. mozaic, musec, Sp. & Pg.
mosaico, It. mosaico, musaico, LGr. musivum; all fr. Gr. Muse the
goddess.]

1. (Fine Arts)

Defn: A surface decoration made by inlaying in patterns small pieces
of variously colored glass, stone, or other material; -- called also
mosaic work.

2. A picture or design made in mosaic; an article decorated in
mosaic.

MOSAIC
Mo*sa"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the style of work called mosaic; formed by
uniting pieces of different colors; variegated; tessellated; also,
composed of various materials or ingredients.
A very beautiful mosaic pavement. Addison.
Florentine mosaic. See under Florentine.
 -- Mosaic gold. (a) See Ormolu.
 -- (b) Stannic sulphide, SnS2, obtained as a yellow scaly
crystalline powder, and used as a pigment in bronzing and gilding
wood and metal work. It was called by the alchemists aurum musivum,
or aurum mosaicum. Called also bronze powder.
 -- Mosaic work. See Mosaic, n.

MOSAIC
Mo*sa"ic, a. Etym: [From Moses.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Moses, the leader of the Israelites, or
established through his agency; as, the Mosaic law, rites, or
institutions.

MOSAICAL
Mo*sa"ic*al, a.

Defn: Mosaic (in either sense). "A mosaical floor." Sir P. Sidney.

MOSAICALLY
Mo*sa"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a mosaic.

MOSAISM
Mo"sa*ism, n.

Defn: Attachment to the system or doctrines of Moses; that which is
peculiar to the Mosaic system or doctrines.

MOSASAUR; MOSASAURIAN
Mos"a*saur, Mos`a*sau"ri*an, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: One of an extinct order of reptiles, including Mosasaurus and
allied genera. See Mosasauria.

MOSASAURIA
Mos`a*sau"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Mosasaurus.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An order of large, extinct, marine reptiles, found in the
Cretaceous rocks, especially in America. They were serpentlike in
form and in having loosely articulated and dilatable jaws, with large
recurved tteth, but they had paddlelike feet. Some of them were over
fifty feet long. They are, essentially, fossil sea serpents with
paddles. Called also Pythonomarpha, and Mosasauria.

MOSASAURUS
Mos`a*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. Mosa the River Meuse (on which
Meastricht is situated) + Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of extinct marine reptiles allied to the lizards, but
having the body much elongated, and the limbs in the form of paddles.
The first known species, nearly fifty feet in length, was discovered
in Cretaceous beds near Maestricht, in the Netherlands. [Written also
Mososaurus.]

MOSCHATEL
Mos"cha*tel`, n. Etym: [Gr. moscatelline. See Muscadel, Musk.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Adoxa (A. moschatellina), the flowers of
which are pale green, and have a faint musky smell. It is found in
woods in all parts of Europe, and is called also hollow root and musk
crowfoot. Loudon.

MOSCHINE
Mos"chine, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Moschus, a genus including the musk deer.

MOSEL
Mos"el, n. & v.

Defn: See Muzzle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOSELLE
Mo*selle", n.

Defn: A light wine, usually white, produced in the vicinity of the
river Moselle.

MOSES
Mo"ses, n.

Defn: A large flatboat, used in the West Indies for taking freight
from shore to ship.

MOSEY
Mo"sey, v. i. [Perh. fr. Vamose.]

Defn: To go, or move (in a certain manner); -- usually with out, off,
along, etc. [Colloq.]  E. N. Wescott.

MOSK
Mosk, n.

Defn: See Mosque.

MOSLEM
Mos"lem, n.; pl. Moslems, or collectively Moslem. Etym: [Ar. muslim a
true believer in the Mohammedan faith, fr. salama to submit to God,
to resign one's self to the divine will. Cf. Islam, Mussulman.]

Defn: A Mussulman; an orthodox Mohammedan. [Written also muslim.]
"Heaps of slaughtered Moslem." Macaulay.
They piled the ground with Moslem slain. Halleck.

MOSLEM
Mos"lem, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Mohammedans; Mohammedan; as, Moslem
lands; the Moslem faith.

MOSLINGS
Mos"lings, n. pl.

Defn: Thin shreds of leather shaved off in dressing skins. Simmonds.

MOSOSAURUS
Mos`o*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL.] (Paleon.)

Defn: Same as Mosasaurus.

MOSQUE
Mosque, n. Etym: [F. mosquée, Sp. mezquita, Ar. masjid, from sajada
to bend, adore.]

Defn: A Mohammedan church or place of religious worship. [Written
also mosk.]

MOSQUITO
Mos*qui"to, n.; pl. Mosquitoes. Etym: [Sp. mosquito, fr. moscafly, L.
musca. Cf. Musket.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of various species of gnats of the genus Culex and
allied genera. The females have a proboscis containing, within the
sheathlike labium, six fine, sharp, needlelike organs with which they
puncture the skin of man and animals to suck the blood. These bites,
when numerous, cause, in many persons, considerable irritation and
swelling, with some pain. The larvæ and pupæ, called wigglers, are
aquatic. [Written also musquito.] Mosquito bar, Mosquito net, a net
or curtain for excluding mosquitoes, -- used for beds and windows.
 -- Mosquito fleet, a fleet of small vessels.
 -- Mosquito hawk (Zoöl.), a dragon fly; -- so called because it
captures and feeds upon mosquitoes.
 -- Mosquito netting, a loosely-woven gauzelike fabric for making
mosquito bars.

MOSS
Moss, n. Etym: [OE. mos; akin to AS. meós, D. mos, G. moos, OHG. mos,
mios, Icel. mosi, Dan. mos, Sw. mossa, Russ. mokh', L. muscus. Cf.
Muscoid.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A cryptogamous plant of a cellular structure, with distinct
stem and simple leaves. The fruit is a small capsule usually opening
by an apical lid, and so discharging the spores. There are many
species, collectively termed Musci, growing on the earth, on rocks,
and trunks of trees, etc., and a few in running water.

Note: The term moss is also popularly applied to many other small
cryptogamic plants, particularly lichens, species of which are called
tree moss, rock moss, coral moss, etc. Fir moss and club moss are of
the genus Lycopodium. See Club moss, under Club, and Lycopodium.

2. A bog; a morass; a place containing peat; as, the mosses of the
Scottish border.

Note: Moss is used with participles in the composition of words which
need no special explanation; as, moss-capped, moss-clad, moss-
covered, moss-grown, etc. Black moss. See under Black, and
Tillandsia.
 -- Bog moss. See Sphagnum.
 -- Feather moss, any moss branched in a feathery manner, esp.
several species of the genus Hypnum.
 -- Florida moss, Long moss, or Spanish moss. See Tillandsia.
 -- Iceland moss, a lichen. See Iceland Moss.
 -- Irish moss, a seaweed. See Carrageen.
 -- Moss agate (Min.), a variety of agate, containing brown, black,
or green mosslike or dendritic markings, due in part to oxide of
manganese. Called also Mocha stone.
 -- Moss animal (Zoöl.), a bryozoan.
 -- Moss berry (Bot.), the small cranberry (Vaccinium Oxycoccus).
 -- Moss campion (Bot.), a kind of mosslike catchfly (Silene
acaulis), with mostly purplish flowers, found on the highest
mountains of Europe and America, and within the Arctic circle.
 -- Moss land, land produced accumulation of aquatic plants, forming
peat bogs of more or less consistency, as the water is grained off or
retained in its pores.
 -- Moss pink (Bot.), a plant of the genus Phlox (P. subulata),
growing in patches on dry rocky hills in the Middle United States,
and often cultivated for its handsome flowers. Gray.
 -- Moss rose (Bot.), a variety of rose having a mosslike growth on
the stalk and calyx. It is said to be derived from the Provence rose.
 -- Moss rush (Bot.), a rush of the genus Juncus (J. squarrosus).
 -- Scale moss. See Hepatica.

MOSS
Moss, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mossed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mossing.]

Defn: To cover or overgrow with moss.
An oak whose boughs were mossed with age. Shak.

MOSSBACK
Moss"back`, n.

Defn: A veteran partisan; one who is so conservative in opinion that
he may be likened to a stone or old tree covered with moss.
[Political Slang, U.S.]

MOSSBANKER; MOSSBUNKER
Moss"bank`er, Moss"bunk`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The menhaded.

MOSS-GROWN
Moss"-grown`, a.

Defn: Overgrown with moss.

MOSSINESS
Moss"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being mossy.

MOSSTROOPER
Moss"troop`er, n. Etym: [Moss + trooper.]

Defn: One of a class of marauders or bandits that formerly infested
the border country between England and Scotland; -- so called in
allusion to the mossy or boggy character of much of the border
country.

MOSSY
Moss"y, a. [Compar. Mossier; superl. Mossiest.]

1. Overgrown with moss; abounding with or edged with moss; as, mossy
trees; mossy streams.
Old trees are more mossy far than young. Bacon.

2. Resembling moss; as, mossy green.

MOST
Most, a., superl. of More. Etym: [OE. most, mast, mest, AS. m; akin
to D. meest, OS. mest, G. meist, Icel. mestr, Goth. maists; a superl.
corresponding to E. more. *103. See More, a.]

1. Consisting of the greatest number or quantity; greater in number
or quantity than all the rest; nearly all. "Most men will proclaim
every one his own goodness." Prov. xx. 6.
The cities wherein most of his mighty works were done. Matt. xi. 20.

2. Greatest in degree; as, he has the most need of it. "In the moste
pride." Chaucer.

3. Highest in rank; greatest. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Note: Most is used as a noun, the words part, portion, quantity,
etc., being omitted, and has the following meanings: 1. The greatest
value, number, or part; preponderating portion; highest or chief
part. 2. The utmost; greatest possible amount, degree, or result;
especially in the phrases to make the most of, at the most, at most.
A quarter of a year or some months at the most. Bacon.
A covetous man makes the most of what he has. L'Estrange.
For the most part, in reference to the larger part of a thing, or to
the majority of the persons, instances, or things referred to; as,
human beings, for the most part, are superstitious; the view, for the
most part, was pleasing.
 -- Most an end, generally. See An end, under End, n. [Obs.] "She
sleeps most an end." Massinger.

MOST
Most, adv. Etym: [AS. mæst. See Most, a.]

Defn: In the greatest or highest degree.
Those nearest to this king, and most his favorites, were courtiers
and prelates. Milton.

Note: Placed before an adjective or adverb, most is used to form the
superlative degree, being equivalent to the termination -est; as,
most vile, most wicked; most illustrious; most rapidly. Formerly, and
until after the Elizabethan period of our literature, the use of the
double superlative was common. See More, adv.
The most unkindest cut of all. Shak.
The most straitest sect of our religion. Acts xxvi. 5.

MOSTAHIBA
Mos`ta*hi"ba, n.

Defn: See Mustaiba.

MOSTE
Mos"te, obs.imp.

Defn: of Mote. Chaucer.

MOSTIC; MOSTICK
Mos"tic, Mos"tick, n. Etym: [See Maul-stick.]

Defn: A painter's maul-stick.

MOSTLY
Most"ly, adv.

Defn: For the greatest part; for the most part; chiefly; in the main.

MOSTRA
Mos"tra, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: See Direct, n.

MOSTWHAT
Most"what`, adv.

Defn: For the most part. [Obs.] "All the rest do mostwhat far amiss."
Spenser.

MOT
Mot, v. [Sing. pres. ind. Mot, Mote, Moot (, pl. Mot, Mote, Moote,
pres. subj. Mote; imp. Moste.] Etym: [See Must, v.] [Obs.]

Defn: May; must; might.
He moot as well say one word as another Chaucer.
The wordes mote be cousin to the deed. Chaucer.
Men moot [i.e., one only] give silver to the poore freres. Chaucer.
So mote it be, so be it; amen; -- a phrase in some rituals, as that
of the Freemasons.

MOT
Mot, n. Etym: [F. See Motto.]

1. A word; hence, a motto; a device. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
Tarquin's eye may read the mot afar. Shak.

2. A pithy or witty saying; a witticism. [A Gallicism]
Here and there turns up a ... savage mot. N. Brit. Rev.

3. A note or brief strain on a bugle. Sir W. Scott.

MOTACIL
Mot"a*cil, n. Etym: [Cf. F. motacille.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any singing bird of the genus Motacilla; a wagtail.

MOTATION
Mo*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. motare, motatum, to keep moving.]

Defn: The act of moving; motion. [Obs.]

MOTE
Mote, v.

Defn: See 1st Mot. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOTE
Mote, n. Etym: [See Moot, a meeting.] [Obs., except in a few
combinations or phrases.]

1. A meeting of persons for discussion; as, a wardmote in the city of
London.

2. A body of persons who meet for discussion, esp. about the
management of affairs; as, a folkmote.

3. A place of meeting for discussion. Mote bell, the bell rung to
summon to a mote. [Obs.]

MOTE
Mote, n.

Defn: The flourish sounded on a horn by a huntsman. See Mot, n., 3,
and Mort. Chaucer.

MOTE
Mote, n. Etym: [OE. mot, AS. mot.]

Defn: A small particle, as of floating dust; anything proverbially
small; a speck.
The little motes in the sun do ever stir, though there be no wind.
Bacon.
We are motes in the midst of generations. Landor.

MOTED
Mot"ed, a.

Defn: Filled with motes, or fine floating dust; as, the air. "Moted
sunbeams." Tennyson.

MOTET
Mo*tet", n. Etym: [F., a dim. of mot word; cf. It. mottetto, dim. of
motto word, device. See Mot, Motto.] (Mus.)

Defn: A composition adapted to sacred words in the elaborate
polyphonic church style; an anthem.

MOTH
Moth (môth), n.

Defn: A mote. [Obs.] Shak.

MOTH
Moth, n.; pl. Moths (môthz). Etym: [OE. mothe, AS. moedhedhe; akin to
D. mot, G. motte, Icel. motti, and prob. to E. mad an earthworm. Cf.
Mad, n., Mawk.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any nocturnal lepidopterous insect, or any not included among
the butterflies; as, the luna moth; Io moth; hawk moth.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any lepidopterous insect that feeds upon garments, grain, etc.;
as, the clothes moth; grain moth; bee moth. See these terms under
Clothes, Grain, etc.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of various other insects that destroy woolen and fur
goods, etc., esp. the larvæ of several species of beetles of the
genera Dermestes and Anthrenus. Carpet moths are often the larvæ of
Anthrenus. See Carpet beetle, under Carpet, Dermestes, Anthrenus.

4. Anything which gradually and silently eats, consumes, or wastes
any other thing. Moth blight (Zoöl.), any plant louse of the genus
Aleurodes, and related genera. They are injurious to various plants.
 -- Moth gnat (Zoöl.), a dipterous insect of the genus Bychoda,
having fringed wings.
 -- Moth hunter (Zoöl.), the goatsucker.
 -- Moth miller (Zoöl.), a clothes moth. See Miller, 3, (a).
 -- Moth mullein (Bot.), a common herb of the genus Verbascum (V.
Blattaria), having large wheel-shaped yellow or whitish flowers.

MOTH-EAT
Moth"-eat`, v. t.

Defn: To eat or prey upon, as a moth eats a garment. [Rarely used
except in the form moth-eaten, p.p. or a.]
Ruin and neglect have so moth-eaten her. Sir T. Herbert.

MOTHEN
Moth"en, a.

Defn: Full of moths. [Obs.] Fulke.

MOTHER
Moth"er, n. Etym: [OE. moder, AS. modor; akin to D. moeder, OS.
modar, G. mutter, OHG. muotar, Icel. moedhir, Dan. & Sw. moder,
OSlav. mati, Russ. mate, Ir. & Gael. mathair, L. mater, Gr. mh`thr,
Skr. matrs; cf. Skr. ma to measure. *268. Cf. Material, Matrix,
Metropolis, Father.]

1. A female parent; especially, one of the human race; a woman who
has borne a child.

2. That which has produced or nurtured anything; source of birth or
origin; generatrix.
Alas! poor country! ... it can not Be called our mother, but our
grave. Shak.
I behold ... the solitary majesty of Crete, mother of a religion, it
is said, that lived two thousand years. Landor.

3. An old woman or matron. [Familiar]

4. The female superior or head of a religious house, as an abbess,
etc.

5. Hysterical passion; hysteria. [Obs.] Shak. Mother Carey's chicken
(Zoöl.), any one of several species of small petrels, as the stormy
petrel (Procellaria pelagica), and Leach's petrel (Oceanodroma
leucorhoa), both of the Atlantic, and O. furcata of the North
Pacific.
 -- Mother Carey's goose (Zoöl.), the giant fulmar of the Pacific.
See Fulmar.
 -- Mother's mark (Med.), a congenital mark upon the body; a nævus.

MOTHER
Moth"er, a.

Defn: Received by birth or from ancestors; native, natural; as,
mother language; also acting the part, or having the place of a
mother; producing others; originating.
It is the mother falsehood from which all idolatry is derived. T.
Arnold.
Mother cell (Biol.), a cell which, by endogenous divisions, gives
rise to other cells (daughter cells); a parent cell.
 -- Mother church, the original church; a church from which other
churches have sprung; as, the mother church of a diocese.
 -- Mother country, the country of one's parents or ancestors; the
country from which the people of a colony derive their origin.
 -- Mother liquor (Chem.), the impure or complex residual solution
which remains after the salts readily or regularly crystallizing have
been removed.
 -- Mother queen, the mother of a reigning sovereign; a queen mother.
 -- Mother tongue. (a) A language from which another language has had
its origin. (b) The language of one's native land; native tongue.
 -- Mother water. See Mother liquor (above).
 -- Mother wit, natural or native wit or intelligence.

MOTHER
Moth"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mothered; p. pr. & vb. n. Mothering.]

Defn: To adopt as a son or daughter; to perform the duties of a
mother to.
The queen, to have put lady Elizabeth besides the crown, would have
mothered another body's child. Howell.

MOTHER
Moth"er, n. Etym: [Akin to D. modder mud, G. moder mold, mud, Dan.
mudder mud, and to E. mud. See Mud.]

Defn: A film or membrane which is developed on the surface of
fermented alcoholic liquids, such as vinegar, wine, etc., and acts as
a means of conveying the oxygen of the air to the alcohol and other
combustible principles of the liquid, thus leading to their
oxidation.

Note: The film is composed of a mass of rapidly developing
microörganisms of the genus Mycoderma, and in the mother of vinegar
the microörganisms (Mycoderma aceti) composing the film are the
active agents in the Conversion of the alcohol into vinegar. When
thickened by growth, the film may settle to the bottom of the fluid.
See Acetous fermentation, under Fermentation.

MOTHER
Moth"er, v. i.

Defn: To become like, or full of, mother, or thick matter, as
vinegar.

MOTHERED
Moth"ered, a.

Defn: Thick, like mother; viscid.
They oint their naked limbs with mothered oil. Dryden.

MOTHERHOOD
Moth"er*hood, n.

Defn: The state of being a mother; the character or office of a
mother.

MOTHERING
Moth"er*ing, n.

Defn: A rural custom in England, of visiting one's parents on Midlent
Sunday, -- supposed to have been originally visiting the mother
church to make offerings at the high altar.

MOTHER-IN-LAW
Moth"er-in-law`, n.

Defn: The mother of one's husband or wife.

MOTHERLAND
Moth"er*land`, n.

Defn: The country of one's ancestors; -- same as fatherland.

MOTHERLESS
Moth"er*less, a. Etym: [AS. modorleás.]

Defn: Destitute of a mother; having lost a mother; as, motherless
children.

MOTHERLINESS
Moth"er*li*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being motherly.

MOTHERLY
Moth"er*ly, a. Etym: [AS. modorlic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a mother; like, or suitable for, a mother;
tender; maternal; as, motherly authority, love, or care. Hooker.

Syn.
 -- Maternal; paternal.
 -- Motherly, Maternal. Motherly, being Anglo-Saxon, is the most
familiar word of the two when both have the same meaning. Besides
this, maternal is confined to the feelings of a mother toward her own
children, whereas motherly has a secondary sense, denoting a care
like that of a mother for her offspring. There is, perhaps, a growing
tendency thus to separate the two, confining motherly to the latter
signification. "They termed her the great mother, for her motherly
care in cherishing her brethren whilst young." Sir W. Raleigh.

MOTHERLY
Moth"er*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner of a mother.

MOTHER-NAKED
Moth"er-na`ked, a.

Defn: Naked as when born.

MOTHER-OF-PEARL
Moth"er-of-pearl`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hard pearly internal layer of several kinds of shells, esp.
of pearl oysters, river mussels, and the abalone shells; nacre. See
Pearl.

MOTHER-OF-THYME
Moth"er-of-thyme`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An aromatic plant (Thymus Serphyllum); -- called also wild
thyme.

MOTHER'S DAY
Moth"er's Day.

Defn: A day appointed for the honor and uplift of motherhood by the
loving remembrance of each person of his mother through the
performance of some act of kindness, visit, tribute, or letter. The
founder of the day is Anna Jarvis, of Philadelphia, who designated
the second Sunday in May, or for schools the second Friday, as the
time, and a white carnation as the badge.

MOTHERWORT
Moth"er*wort`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A labiate herb (Leonurus Cardiaca), of a bitter taste, used
popularly in medicine; lion's tail.
(b) The mugwort. See Mugwort.

MOTHERY
Moth"er*y, a.

Defn: Consisting of, containing, or resembling, mother (in vinegar).

MOTHY
Moth"y, a.

Defn: Infested with moths; moth-eaten. "An old mothy saddle." Shak.

MOTIF
Mo"tif, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Motive.

MOTIFIC
Mo*tif"ic, a. Etym: [L. motus motion (fr. movere to move) + facere to
make.]

Defn: Producing motion. [R.]

MOTILE
Mo"tile, a. Etym: [See Motive.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Having powers of self-motion, though unconscious; as, the
motile spores of certain seaweeds.

2. Producing motion; as, motile powers.

MOTILITY
Mo*til"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. motilité.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Capability of motion; contractility.

MOTION
Mo"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. motio, fr. movere, motum, to move. See
Move.]

1. The act, process, or state of changing place or position;
movement; the passing of a body from one place or position to
another, whether voluntary or involuntary; -- opposed to rest.
Speaking or mute, all comeliness and grace attends thee, and each
word, each motion, forms. Milton.

2. Power of, or capacity for, motion.
Devoid of sense and motion. Milton.

3. Direction of movement; course; tendency; as, the motion of the
planets is from west to east.
In our proper motion we ascend. Milton.

4. Change in the relative position of the parts of anything; action
of a machine with respect to the relative movement of its parts.
This is the great wheel to which the clock owes its motion. Dr. H.
More.

5. Movement of the mind, desires, or passions; mental act, or impulse
to any action; internal activity.
Let a good man obey every good motion rising in his heart, knowing
that every such motion proceeds from God. South.

6. A proposal or suggestion looking to action or progress; esp., a
formal proposal made in a deliberative assembly; as, a motion to
adjourn.
Yes, I agree, and thank you for your motion. Shak.

7. (Law)

Defn: An application made to a court or judge orally in open court.
Its object is to obtain an order or rule directing some act to be
done in favor of the applicant. Mozley & W.

8. (Mus.)

Defn: Change of pitch in successive sounds, whether in the same part
or in groups of parts.
The independent motions of different parts sounding together
constitute counterpoint. Grove.

Note: Conjunct motion is that by single degrees of the scale.
Contrary motion is that when parts move in opposite directions.
Disjunct motion is motion by skips. Oblique motion is that when one
part is stationary while another moves. Similar or direct motion is
that when parts move in the same direction.

9. A puppet show or puppet. [Obs.]
What motion's this the model of Nineveh Beau. & Fl.

Note: Motion, in mechanics, may be simple or compound. Simple motions
are: (a) straight translation, which, if of indefinite duration, must
be reciprocating. (b) Simple rotation, which may be either continuous
or reciprocating, and when reciprocating is called oscillating. (c)
Helical, which, if of indefinite duration, must be reciprocating.
Compound motion consists of combinations of any of the simple
motions. Center of motion, Harmonic motion, etc. See under Center,
Harmonic, etc.
 -- Motion block (Steam Engine), a crosshead.
 -- Perpetual motion (Mech.), an incessant motion conceived to be
attainable by a machine supplying its own motive forces independently
of any action from without.

Syn.
 -- See Movement.

MOTION
Mo"tion, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Motioned; p. pr. & vb. n. Motioning.]

1. To make a significant movement or gesture, as with the hand; as,
to motion to one to take a seat.

2. To make proposal; to offer plans. [Obs.] Shak.

MOTION
Mo"tion, v. t.

1. To direct or invite by a motion, as of the hand or head; as, to
motion one to a seat.

2. To propose; to move. [Obs.]
I want friends to motion such a matter. Burton.

MOTIONER
Mo"tion*er, n.

Defn: One who makes a motion; a mover. Udall.

MOTIONIST
Mo"tion*ist, n.

Defn: A mover. [Obs.]

MOTIONLESS
Mo"tion*less, a.

Defn: Without motion; being at rest.

MOTION PICTURE
Mo"tion pic"ture.

Defn: A moving picture.

MOTIVATE
Mo"ti*vate, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -vated; p. pr. & vb. n. -vating.]
[From Motive, n.]

Defn: To provide with a motive; to move; impel; induce; incite. --
Mo`ti*va"tion (#), n.  William James.

MOTIVE
Mo"tive, n. Etym: [F. motif, LL. motivum, from motivus moving, fr. L.
movere, motum, to move. See Move.]

1. That which moves; a mover. [Obs.] Shak.

2. That which incites to action; anything prompting or exciting to
choise, or moving the will; cause; reason; inducement; object.
By motive, I mean the whole of that which moves, excites, or invites
the mind to volition, whether that be one thing singly, or many
things conjunctively. J. Edwards.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: The theme or subject; a leading phrase or passage which is
reproduced and varied through the course of a comor a movement; a
short figure, or melodic germ, out of which a whole movement is
develpoed. See also Leading motive, under Leading. [Written also
motivo.]

4. (Fine Arts)

Defn: That which produces conception, invention, or creation in the
mind of the artist in undertaking his subject; the guiding or
controlling idea manifested in a work of art, or any part of one.

Syn.
 -- Incentive; incitement; inducement; reason; spur; stimulus; cause.
 -- Motive, Inducement, Reason. Motive is the word originally used in
speaking of that which determines the choice. We call it an
inducement when it is attractive in its nature. We call it a reason
when it is more immediately addressed to the intellect in the form of
argument.

MOTIVE
Mo"tive, a.

Defn: Causing motion; having power to move, or tending to move; as, a
motive argument; motive power. "Motive faculty." Bp. Wilkins. Motive
power (Mach.), a natural agent, as water, steam, wind, electricity,
etc., used to impart motion to machinery; a motor; a mover.

MOTIVE
Mo"tive, v. t.

Defn: To prompt or incite by a motive or motives; to move.

MOTIVELESS
Mo"tive*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of a motive; not incited by a motive.
 -- Mo"tive*less*ness, n. G. Eliot.

MOTIVITY
Mo*tiv"i*ty, n. Etym: [See Motive, n.]

1. The power of moving or producing motion.

2. The quality of being influenced by motives. [R.]

MOTIVO
Mo*ti"vo, n. Etym: [It. See Motive, n.]

Defn: See Motive, n., 3, 4.

MOTLEY
Mot"ley, a. Etym: [OE. mottelee, motle; cf. OF. mattelé clotted,
curdled, OF, ciel mattonné a mottled sky, mate, maton, curdled milk,
Prov. G. matte curd. Cf. Mottle.]

1. Variegated in color; consisting of different colors; dappled;
party-colored; as, a motley coat.

2. Wearing motley or party-colored clothing. See Motley, n., 1. "A
motley fool." Shak.

3. Composed of different or various parts; heterogeneously made or
mixed up; discordantly composite; as, motley style. Byron.

MOTLEY
Mot"ley, n.

1. A combination of distinct colors; esp., the party-colored cloth,
or clothing, worn by the professional fool. Chaucer. "Motley 's the
only wear." Shak.

2. Hence, a jester, a fool. [Obs.] Shak. Man of motley, a fool.
[Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

MOTLEY-MINDED
Mot"ley-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Having a mind of a jester; foolish. Shak.

MOTMOT
Mot"mot, n. Etym: [Cf. Momot.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of long-tailed, passerine birds of
the genus Momotus, having a strong serrated beak. In most of the
species the two long middle tail feathers are racket-shaped at the
tip, when mature. The bird itself is said by some writers to trim
them into this shape. They feed on insects, reptiles, and fruit, and
are found from Mexico to Brazil. The name is derived from its note.
[Written also momot.]

MOTO
Mo"to, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Movement; manner of movement; particularly, movement with
increased rapidity; -- used especially in the phrase con moto,
directing to a somewhat quicker movement; as, andante con moto, a
little more rapidly than andante, etc.

MOTOGRAPH
Mo"to*graph, n. [L. movere, motum, to move + -graph.] (Elec.)

Defn: A device utilized in the making of a loud-speaking telephone,
depending on the fact that the friction between a metallic point and
a moving cylinder of moistened chalk, or a moving slip of paper, on
which it rests is diminished by the passage of a current between the
point and the moving surface. -- Mo`to*graph"ic (#), a.

MOTON
Mo"ton, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Anc. Armor)

Defn: A small plate covering the armpit in armor of the 14th century
and later.

MOTOR
Mo"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. movere, motum, to move.]

1. One who, or that which, imparts motion; a source of mechanical
power.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A prime mover; a machine by means of which a source of power,
as steam, moving water, electricity, etc., is made available for
doing mechanical work.

MOTOR; MOTORY; MOTORIAL
Mo"tor, Mo"to*ry, Mo*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. motorius that has motion.
See Motor, n.]

Defn: Causing or setting up motion; pertaining to organs of motion; -
- applied especially in physiology to those nerves or nerve fibers
which only convey impressions from a nerve center to muscles, thereby
causing motion.

MOTOR CAR; MOTORCAR
Motor car, or Mo"tor*car`, n.

1. An automobile, locomobile, or locomotive designed to run and be
steered on a street or roadway; esp., an automobile specially
designed for passengers.

2.  (Elec. Railroads) Any car containing motors for propulsion. [U.
S.]

MOTOR CYCLE; MOTORCYCLE
Motor cycle, or Mo"tor*cy`cle, n.

Defn: A bicycle having a motor attached so as to be self-propelled.
In Great Britain the term motor cycle is treated by statute (3 Ed
VII. c. 36) as limited to motor cars (self-propelled vehicles)
designed to travel on not more than three wheels, and weighing
unladen (that is, without water, fuel, or accumulators necessary for
propulsion) not more than three hundred weight (336 lbs.).

MOTOR-DRIVEN
Mo`tor-driv`en, a. (Mach.)

Defn: Driven or actuated by a motor, esp. by an individual electric
motor. An electric motor forms an integral part of many machine tools
in numerous modern machine shops.

MOTOR GENERATOR
Motor generator.

Defn: The combination consisting of a generator and a driving motor
mechanically connected, usually on a common bedplate and with the two
shafts directly coupled or combined into a single shaft.

MOTORING
Mo"tor*ing, n.

Defn: Act or recreation of riding in or driving a motor car or
automobile.

MOTORING
Mo"tor*ing, a.

Defn: Pertaining to motor cars or automobiles, or to the technology
of such; addicted to riding in or driving automobiles; as, motoring
parlance; my motoring friend.

MOTORIZE
Mo"tor*ize (mo"ter*iz), v. t.  [Motor + -ize.]

Defn: To substitute motor-driven vehicles, or automobiles, for the
horses and horse-drawn vehicles of (a fire department, city, etc.). -
-Mo`tor*i*za"tion (#), n.

MOTORMAN
Mo"tor*man, n.

Defn: A man who controls a motor.

MOTORPATHIC
Mo`tor*path"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to motorpathy.

MOTORPATHY
Mo*tor"pa*thy, n. Etym: [L. motor a mover + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Kinesiatrics.

MOTTE
Motte, n. Etym: [Cf. F. motte a clod, clump, or hillock.]

Defn: A clump of trees in a prairie. [Local, U.S.]

MOTTLE
Mot"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mottled; p. pr. & vb. n. Mottling.]
Etym: [From Mottled.]

Defn: To mark with spots of different color, or shades of color, as
if stained; to spot; to maculate.

MOTTLE
Mot"tle, n.

Defn: A mottled appearance.

MOTTLED
Mot"tled, a. Etym: [From Motley.]

Defn: Marked with spots of different colors; variegated; spotted; as,
mottled wood. "The mottled meadows." Drayton.

MOTTO
Mot"to, n.; pl. Mottoes. Etym: [It. motto a word, a saying, L. muttum
a mutter, a grunt, cf. muttire, mutire, to mutter, mumble; prob. of
imitative origin. Cf. Mot a word.]

1. (Her.)

Defn: A sentence, phrase, or word, forming part of an heraldic
achievment.

2. A sentence, phrase, or word, prefixed to an essay, discourse,
chapter, canto, or the like, suggestive of its subject matter; a
short, suggestive expression of a guiding principle; a maxim.
It was the motto of a bishop eminent for his piety and good works,
... "Serve God, and be cheerful." Addison.

MOTTOED
Mot"toed, a.

Defn: Bearing or having a motto; as, a mottoed coat or device.

MOTTY
Mot"ty, a.

Defn: Full of, or consisting of, motes. [Written also mottie.]
[Scot.]
The motty dust reek raised by the workmen. H. Miller.

MOUCHOIR
Mou`choir", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A handkerchief.

MOUEZZIN
Mou*ez"zin, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Muezzin.

MOUFLON
Mouf"lon, n. Etym: [F. mouflon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wild sheep (Ovis musimon), inhabiting the mountains of
Sardinia, Corsica, etc. Its horns are very large, with a triangular
base and rounded angles. It is supposed by some to be the original of
the domestic sheep. Called also musimon or musmon. [Written also
moufflon.]

MOUGHT
Mought, obs.imp.

Defn: of May. Might.

MOUILLATION
Mouil*la"tion, n. Etym: [See Mouillé.] (Phon.)

Defn: The act of uttering the sound of a mouillé letter.

MOUILLE
Mouil`lé", a. Etym: [F., lit., wet.] (Phon.)

Defn: Applied to certain consonants having a "liquid" or softened
sound; e.g., in French, l or ll and gn (like the lli in million and
ni in minion); in Italian, gl and gn; in Spanish, ll and ñ; in
Portuguese, lh and nh.

MOULD; MOULDER; MOULDY
Mould, Mould"er, Mould"y, etc.

Defn: See Mold, Molder, Moldy, etc.

MOULE
Moule, v. i. Etym: [OE. moulen. See Mold.]

Defn: To contract mold; to grow moldy; to mold. [Obs.]
Let us not moulen thus in idleness. Chaucer.

MOULINE; MOULINET
Mou*line", Mou"li*net, n. Etym: [F. moulinet, orig., a little mill,
dim. of moulin mill. See Mill.]

1. The drum upon which the rope is wound in a capstan, crane, or the
like.

2. A machine formerly used for bending a crossbow by winding it up.

3. In sword and saber exercises, a circular swing of the weawon.

MOULT
Moult, v. & n.

Defn: See Molt.

MOULTEN
Moult"en, a.

Defn: Having molted. [Obs.] "A moulten raven." Shak.

MOUN
Moun, v.,

Defn: pl. of Mow, may. [Obs.] Wyclif.

MOUNCH
Mounch, v. t.

Defn: To munch. [Obs.]

MOUND
Mound, n. Etym: [F. monde the world, L. mundus. See Mundane.]

Defn: A ball or globe forming part of the regalia of an emperor or
other sovereign. It is encircled with bands, enriched with precious
stones, and surmounted with a cross; -- called also globe.

MOUND
Mound, n. Etym: [OE. mound, mund, protection, AS. mund protection,
hand; akin to OHG. munt, Icel. mund hand, and prob. to L. manus. See
Manual.]

Defn: An artificial hill or elevation of earth; a raised bank; an
embarkment thrown up for defense; a bulwark; a rampart; also, a
natural elevation appearing as if thrown up artificially; a regular
and isolated hill, hillock, or knoll.
To thrid the thickets or to leap the mounds. Dryden.
Mound bird. (Zoöl.) Same as Mound maker (below).
 -- Mound builders (Ethnol.), the tribe, or tribes, of North American
aborigines who built, in former times, extensive mounds of earth,
esp. in the valleys of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers. Formerly they
were supposed to have preceded the Indians, but later investigations
go to show that they were, in general, identical with the tribes that
occupied the country when discovered by Europeans.
 -- Mound maker (Zoöl.), any one of the megapodes.
 -- Shell mound, a mound of refuse shells, collected by aborigines
who subsisted largely on shellfish. See Midden, and Kitchen middens.

MOUND
Mound, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mounded; p. pr. & vb. n. Mounding.]

Defn: To fortify or inclose with a mound.

MOUNT
Mount, n. Etym: [OE. munt, mont, mount, AS. munt, fr. L. mons,
montis; cf. L. minae protections, E. eminent, menace: cf. F. mont.
Cf. Mount, v., Mountain, Mont, Monte, Montem.]

1. A mass of earth, or earth and rock, rising considerably above the
common surface of the surrounding land; a mountain; a high hill; --
used always instead of mountain, when put before a proper name; as,
Mount Washington; otherwise, chiefly in poetry.

2. A bulwark for offense or defense; a mound. [Obs.]
Hew ye down trees, and cast a mount against Jerusalem. Jer. vi. 6.

3. Etym: [See Mont de piété.]

Defn: A bank; a fund. Mount of piety. See Mont de piété.

MOUNT
Mount, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mounted; p. pr. & vb. n. Mounting.] Etym:
[OE. mounten, monten, F. monter, fr. L. mons, montis, mountain. See
Mount, n. (above).]

1. To rise on high; to go up; to be upraised or uplifted; to tower
aloft; to ascend; -- often with up.
Though Babylon should mount up to heaven. Jer. li. 53.
The fire of trees and houses mounts on high. Cowley.

2. To get up on anything, as a platform or scaffold; especially, to
seat one's self on a horse for riding.

3. To attain in value; to amount.
Bring then these blessings to a strict account, Make fair deductions,
see to what they mount. Pope.

MOUNT
Mount, v. t.

1. To get upon; to ascend; to climb.
Shall we mount again the rural throne Dryden.

2. To place one's self on, as a horse or other animal, or anything
that one sits upon; to bestride.

3. To cause to mount; to put on horseback; to furnish with animals
for riding; to furnish with horses. "To mount the Trojan troop."
Dryden.

4. Hence: To put upon anything that sustains and fits for use, as a
gun on a carriage, a map or picture on cloth or paper; to prepare for
being worn or otherwise used, as a diamond by setting, or a sword
blade by adding the hilt, scabbard, etc.

5. To raise aloft; to lift on high.
What power is it which mounts my love so high Shak.

Note: A fort or ship is said to mount cannon, when it has them
arranged for use in or about it. To mount guard (Mil.), to go on
guard; to march on guard; to do duty as a guard.
 -- To mount a play, to prepare and arrange the scenery, furniture,
etc., used in the play.

MOUNT
Mount, n. Etym: [From Mount, v.]

Defn: That upon which a person or thing is mounted, as:
(a) A horse.
She had so good a seat and hand, she might be trusted with any mount.
G. Eliot.

(b) The cardboard or cloth on which a drawing, photograph, or the
like is mounted; a mounting.

MOUNTABLE
Mount"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be mounted.

MOUNTAIN
Moun"tain, n. Etym: [OE. mountaine, montaine, F. montagne, LL.
montanea, montania, fr. L. mons, montis, a mountain; cf. montanus
belonging to a mountain. See 1st Mount.]

1. A large mass of earth and rock, rising above the common level of
the earth or adjacent land; earth and rock forming an isolated peak
or a ridge; an eminence higher than a hill; a mount.

2. pl.

Defn: A range, chain, or group of such elevations; as, the White
Mountains.

3. A mountainlike mass; something of great bulk.
I should have been a mountain of mummy. Shak.
The Mountain (La montagne) (French Hist.), a popular name given in
1793 to a party of extreme Jacobins in the National Convention, who
occupied the highest rows of seats.

MOUNTAIN
Moun"tain, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a mountain or mountains; growing or living on
a mountain; found on or peculiar to mountains; among mountains; as, a
mountain torrent; mountain pines; mountain goats; mountain air;
mountain howitzer.

2. Like a mountain; mountainous; vast; very great.
The high, the mountain majesty of worth. Byron.
Mountain anthelope (Zoöl.), the goral.
 -- Mountain ash (Bot.), an ornamental tree, the Pyrus (Sorbus)
Americana, producing beautiful bunches of red berries. Its leaves are
pinnate, and its flowers white, growing in fragrant clusters. The
European species is the P. aucuparia, or rowan tree.
 -- Mountain barometer, a portable barometer, adapted for safe
transportation, used in measuring the heights of mountains.
 -- Mountain beaver (Zoöl.), the sewellel.
 -- Mountain blue (Min.), blue carbonate of copper; azurite.
 -- Mountain cat (Zoöl.), the catamount. See Catamount.
 -- Mountain chain, a series of contiguous mountain ranges, generally
in parallel or consecutive lines or curves.
 -- Mountain cock (Zoöl.), capercailzie. See Capercailzie.
 -- Mountain cork (Min.), a variety of asbestus, resembling cork in
its texture.
 -- Mountain crystal. See under Crystal.
 -- Mountain damson (Bot.), a large tree of the genus Simaruba (S.
amarga) growing in the West Indies, which affords a bitter tonic and
astringent, sometimes used in medicine.
 -- Mountain dew, Scotch whisky, so called because often illicitly
distilled among the mountains. [Humorous] -- Mountain ebony (Bot.), a
small leguminous tree (Bauhinia variegata) of the East and West
Indies; -- so called because of its dark wood. The bark is used
medicinally and in tanning.
 -- Mountain flax (Min.), a variety of asbestus, having very fine
fibers; amianthus. See Amianthus.
 -- Mountain fringe (Bot.), climbing fumitory. See under Fumitory.
 -- Mountain goat. (Zoöl.) See Mazama.
 -- Mountain green. (Min.) (a) Green malachite, or carbonate of
copper. (b) See Green earth, under Green, a.
 -- Mountain holly (Bot.), a branching shrub (Nemopanthes
Canadensis), having smooth oblong leaves and red berries. It is found
in the Northern United States.
 -- Mountain laurel (Bot.), an American shrub (Kalmia latifolia) with
glossy evergreen leaves and showy clusters of rose-colored or white
flowers. The foliage is poisonous. Called also American laurel, ivy
bush, and calico bush. See Kalmia.
 -- Mountain leather (Min.), a variety of asbestus, resembling
leather in its texture.
 -- Mountain licorice (Bot.), a plant of the genus Trifolium (T.
Alpinum).
 -- Mountain limestone (Geol.), a series of marine limestone strata
below the coal measures, and above the old red standstone of Great
Britain. See Chart of Geology.
 -- Mountain linnet (Zoöl.), the twite.
 -- Mountain magpie. (Zoöl.) (a) The yaffle, or green woodpecker. (b)
The European gray shrike.
 -- Mountain mahogany (Bot.) See under Mahogany.
 -- Mountain meal (Min.), a light powdery variety of calcite,
occurring as an efflorescence.
 -- Mountain milk (Min.), a soft spongy variety of carbonate of lime.
 -- Mountain mint. (Bot.) See Mint.
 -- Mountain ousel (Zoöl.), the ring ousel; -- called also mountain
thrush and mountain colley. See Ousel.
 -- Mountain pride, or Mountain green (Bot.), a tree of Jamaica
(Spathelia simplex), which has an unbranched palmlike stem, and a
terminal cluster of large, pinnate leaves.
 -- Mountain quail (Zoöl.), the plumed partridge (Oreortyx pictus) of
California. It has two long, slender, plumelike feathers on the head.
The throat and sides are chestnut; the belly is brown with transverse
bars of black and white; the neck and breast are dark gray.
 -- Mountain range, a series of mountains closely related in position
and direction.
 -- Mountain rice. (Bot.) (a) An upland variety of rice, grown
without irrigation, in some parts of Asia, Europe, and the United
States. (b) An American genus of grasses (Oryzopsis).
 -- Mountain rose (Bot.), a species of rose with solitary flowers,
growing in the mountains of Europe (Rosa alpina).
 -- Mountain soap (Min.), a soft earthy mineral, of a brownish color,
used in crayon painting; saxonite.
 -- Mountain sorrel (Bot.), a low perennial plant (Oxyria digyna with
rounded kidney-form leaves, and small greenish flowers, found in the
White Mountains of New Hampshire, and in high northern latitudes.
Gray.
 -- Mountain sparrow (Zoöl.), the European tree sparrow.
 -- Mountain spinach. (Bot.) See Orach.
 -- Mountain tobacco (Bot.), a composite plant (Arnica montana) of
Europe; called also leopard's bane.
 -- Mountain witch (Zoöl.), a ground pigeon of Jamaica, of the genus
Geotrygon.

MOUNTAINEER
Moun`tain*eer", n. Etym: [OF. montanier, LL. montanarius. See
Mountain.]

1. An inhabitant of a mountain; one who lives among mountains.

2. A rude, fierce person. [Obs.]
No savage fierce, bandit, or mountaineer. Milton.

MOUNTAINEER
Moun`tain*eer", v. i.

Defn: To lie or act as a mountaineer; to climb mountains.
You can't go mountaineering in a flat country. H. James.

MOUNTAINER
Moun"tain*er, n.

Defn: A mountaineer. [Obs.]

MOUNTAINET
Moun"tain*et, n.

Defn: A small mountain. [R.]

MOUNTAINOUS
Moun"tain*ous, a. Etym: [F. montagneux, L. montaniosus.]

1. Full of, or containing, mountains; as, the mountainous country of
the Swiss.

2. Inhabiting mountains. [Obs.] Bacon.

3. Large as, or resembling, a mountain; huge; of great bulk; as, a
mountainous heap. Prior.

MOUNTAINOUSNESS
Moun"tain*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being mountainous.

MOUNTAIN SPECTER
Moun"tain spec"ter.

Defn: An optical phenomenon sometimes seen on the summit of mountains
(as on the Brocken) when the observer is between the sun and a mass
of cloud. The figures of the observer and surrounding objects are
seen projected on the cloud, greatly enlarged and often encircled by
rainbow colors.

MOUNTAIN STATE
Moun"tain State.

Defn: Montana; -- a nickname.

MOUNTANCE
Mount"ance, n. Etym: [OF. montance.]

Defn: Amount; sum; quantity; extent. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOUNTANT
Mount"ant, a. Etym: [F. montant, p.pr. of monter. See Mount, and cf.
Montant.]

Defn: Raised; high. [Obs.]

MOUNTEBANK
Mount"e*bank, n. Etym: [It. montimbanco, montambanco; montare to
mount + in in, upon + banco bench. See Mount, and 4th Bank.]

1. One who mounts a bench or stage in the market or other public
place, boasts of his skill in curing diseases, and vends medicines
which he pretends are infalliable remedies; a quack doctor.
Such is the weakness and easy credulity of men, that a mountebank ...
is preferred before an able physician. Whitlock.

2. Any boastful or false pretender; a charlatan; a quack.
Nothing so impossible in nature but mountebanks will undertake.
Arbuthnot.

MOUNTEBANK
Mount"e*bank, v. t.

Defn: To cheat by boasting and false pretenses; to gull. [R.] Shak.

MOUNTEBANK
Mount"e*bank, v. i.

Defn: To play the mountebank.

MOUNTEBANKERY
Mount"e*bank`er*y, n.

Defn: The practices of a mountebank; quackery; boastful and vain
pretenses.

MOUNTEBANKISH
Mount"e*bank`ish, a.

Defn: Like a mountebank or his quackery. Howell.

MOUNTEBANKISM
Mount"e*bank*ism, n.

Defn: The practices of a mountebank; mountebankery.

MOUNTED
Mount"ed, a.

1. Seated or serving on horseback or similarly; as, mounted police;
mounted infantry.

2. Placed on a suitable support, or fixed in a setting; as, a mounted
gun; a mounted map; a mounted gem.

MOUNTENAUNCE
Mount"e*naunce, n.

Defn: Mountance. [Obs.]

MOUNTER
Mount"er, n.

1. One who mounts.

2. An animal mounted; a monture. [Obs.]

MOUNTING
Mount"ing, n.

1. The act of one that mounts.

2. That by which anything is prepared for use, or set off to
advantage; equipment; embellishment; setting; as, the mounting of a
sword or diamond.

MOUNTINGLY
Mount"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ascending manner.

MOUNTLET
Mount"let, n.

Defn: A small or low mountain. [R.]

MOUNTY
Mount"y, n. Etym: [F. montée, fr. monter. See Mount, v.]

Defn: The rise of a hawk after prey. Sir P. Sidney.

MOURN
Mourn, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mourned; p. pr. & vb. n. Mourning.] Etym:
[AS. murnan; akin to OS. mornian, OHG. mornen, Goth. maúrnan.]

1. To express or to feel grief or sorrow; to grieve; to be sorrowful;
to lament; to be in a state of grief or sadness.
Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her. Gen. xxiii. 2.

2. To wear the customary garb of a mourner.
We mourn in black; why mourn we not in blood Shak.
Grieve for an hour, perhaps, then mourn a year. Pope.

MOURN
Mourn, v. t.

1. To grieve for; to lament; to deplore; to bemoan; to bewail.
As if he mourned his rival's ill success. Addison.
And looking over the hills, I mourn The darling who shall not return.
Emerson.

2. To utter in a mournful manner or voice.
The lovelorn nightingale Nightly to thee her sad song mourneth well.
Milton.

Syn.
 -- See Deplore.

MOURNE
Mourne, n. Etym: [See 2d Morne.]

Defn: The armed or feruled end of a staff; in a sheephook, the end of
the staff to which the hook is attached. Sir P. Sidney.

MOURNER
Mourn"er, n.

1. One who mourns or is grieved at any misfortune, as the death of a
friend.
His mourners were two hosts, his friends and foes. Byron.

2. One who attends a funeral as a hired mourner.
Mourners were provided to attend the funeral. L'Estrange.

MOURNFUL
Mourn"ful, a.

Defn: Full of sorrow; expressing, or intended to express, sorrow;
mourning; grieving; sad; also, causing sorrow; saddening; grievous;
as, a mournful person; mournful looks, tones, loss.
 -- Mourn"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Mourn"ful*ness, n.

Syn.
 -- Sorrowful; lugubrious; sad; doleful; heavy; afflictive; grievous;
calamitous.

MOURNING
Mourn"ing, n. Etym: [AS. murnung.]

1. The act of sorrowing or expressing grief; lamentation; sorrow.

2. Garb, drapery, or emblems indicative of grief, esp. clothing or a
badge of somber black.
The houses to their tops with black were spread, And ev'n the
pavements were with mourning hid. Dryden.
Deep mourning. See under Deep.

MOURNING
Mourn"ing, a.

1. Grieving; sorrowing; lamenting.

2. Employed to express sorrow or grief; worn or used as appropriate
to the condition of one bereaved or sorrowing; as, mourning garments;
a mourning ring; a mourning pin, and the like. Mourning bride (Bot.),
a garden flower (Scabiosa atropurpurea) with dark purple or crimson
flowers in flattened heads.
 -- Mourning dove (Zoöl.), a wild dove (Zenaidura macroura) found
throughout the United States; -- so named from its plaintive note.
Called also Carolina dove. See Illust. under Dove.
 -- Mourning warbler (Zoöl.), an American ground warbler (Geothlypis
Philadelphia). The male has the head, neck, and chest, deep ash-gray,
mixed with black on the throat and chest; other lower parts are pure
yellow.

MOURNINGLY
Mourn"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mourning manner.

MOURNIVAL
Mour"ni*val, n.

Defn: See Murnival.

MOUSE
Mouse (mous), n.; pl. Mice (mis). Etym: [OE. mous, mus, AS. mus, pl.
mys; akin to D. muis, G. maus, OHG. & Icel. mus, Dan. muus, Sw. mus,
Russ. muishe, L. mus, Gr. my^s, Skr. mush mouse, mush to steal. *277.
Cf. Muscle, Musk.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small rodents belonging to the
genus Mus and various related genera of the family Muridæ. The common
house mouse (Mus musculus) is found in nearly all countries. The
American white-footed, or deer, mouse (Hesperomys leucopus) sometimes
lives in houses. See Dormouse, Meadow mouse, under Meadow, and
Harvest mouse, under Harvest.

2. (Naut.)
(a) A knob made on a rope with spun yarn or parceling to prevent a
running eye from slipping.
(b) Same as 2d Mousing, 2.

3. A familiar term of endearment. Shak.

4. A dark-colored swelling caused by a blow. [Slang]

5. A match used in firing guns or blasting. Field mouse, Flying
mouse, etc. See under Field, Flying, etc.
 -- Mouse bird (Zoöl.), a coly.
 -- Mouse deer (Zoöl.), a chevrotain, as the kanchil.
 -- Mouse galago (Zoöl.), a very small West American galago (Galago
murinus). In color and size it resembles a mouse. It has a bushy tail
like that of a squirrel.
 -- Mouse hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) A hawk that devours mice. (b) The hawk
owl; -- called also mouse owl.
 -- Mouse lemur (Zoöl.), any one of several species of very small
lemurs of the genus Chirogaleus, found in Madagascar.
 -- Mouse piece (Cookery), the piece of beef cut from the part next
below the round or from the lower part of the latter; -- called also
mouse buttock.

MOUSE
Mouse, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Moused; p. pr. & vb. n. Mousing.]

1. To watch for and catch mice.

2. To watch for or pursue anything in a sly manner; to pry about, on
the lookout for something.

MOUSE
Mouse, v. t.

1. To tear, as a cat devours a mouse. [Obs.] "[Death] mousing the
flesh of men." Shak.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To furnish with a mouse; to secure by means of a mousing. See
Mouse, n., 2.

MOUSE-EAR
Mouse"-ear`, n. (Bot.)
(a) The forget-me-not (Myosotis palustris) and other species of the
same genus.
(b) A European species of hawkweed (Hieracium Pilosella). Mouse-ear
chickweed, a name of two common species of chickweed (Cerastium
vulgarium, and C. viscosum).
 -- Mouse-ear cress, a low cruciferous herb (Sisymbrium Thaliana).
All these are low herbs with soft, oval, or obovate leaves, whence
the name.

MOUSEFISH
Mouse"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Frogfish.

MOUSEHOLE
Mouse"hole`, n.

Defn: A hole made by a mouse, for passage or abode, as in a wall;
hence, a very small hole like that gnawed by a mouse.

MOUSEKIN
Mouse"kin, n.

Defn: A little mouse. Thackeray.

MOUSER
Mous"er, n.

1. A cat that catches mice.

2. One who pries about on the lookout for something.

MOUSETAIL
Mouse"tail`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of ranunculaceous plants (Myosurus), in which the
prolonged receptacle is covered with imbricating achenes, and so
resembles the tail of a mouse.

MOUSIE
Mous"ie, n.

Defn: Diminutive for Mouse. Burns.

MOUSING
Mous"ing, a.

Defn: Impertinently inquisitive; prying; meddlesome. "Mousing
saints." L'Estrange.

MOUSING
Mous"ing, n.

1. The act of hunting mice.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A turn or lashing of spun yarn or small stuff, or a metallic
clasp or fastening, uniting the point and shank of a hook to prevent
its unhooking or straighening out.

3. A ratchet movement in a loom. Mousing hook, a hook with an
attachment which prevents its unhooking.

MOUSLE
Mou"sle, v. t.

Defn: To sport with roughly; to rumple. [Written also mouzle.] [Obs.]
Wycherley.

MOUSQUETAIRE
Mous`que*taire", n. [F.]

1. A musketeer, esp. one of the French royal musketeers of the 17th
and 18th centuries, conspicuous both for their daring and their fine
dress.

2.  A mosquetaire cuff or glove, or other article of dress fancied to
resemble those worn by the French mosquetaires.

MOUSQUETAIRE CUFF
Mousquetaire cuff.

Defn: A deep flaring cuff.

MOUSQUETAIRE GLOVE
Mousquetaire glove.

Defn: A woman's glove with a long, loosely fitting wrist.

MOUSSE
Mousse (moos), n. [F.] (Cookery)

Defn: A frozen dessert of a frothy texture, made of sweetened and
flavored whipped cream, sometimes with the addition of egg yolks and
gelatin. Mousse differs from ice cream in being beaten before -- not
during -- the freezing process.

MOUSSELINE
Mousse`line", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Muslin. Mousseline de laine (. Etym: [F., muslin of wool.]
Muslin delaine. See under Muslin.
 -- Mousseline glass, a kind of thin blown glassware, such as
wineglasses, etc.

MOUSSELINE DE SOIE
Mousse`line de soie". [F.]

Defn: A soft thin silk fabric with a weave like that of muslin.

MOUSTACHE
Mous`tache", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Mustache.

MOUSY
Mous"y, a.

Defn: Infested with mice; smelling of mice.

MOUTAN
Mou"tan, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The Chinese tree peony (Pæonia Mountan), a shrub with large
flowers of various colors.

MOUTH
Mouth, n.; pl. Mouths. Etym: [OE. mouth, mu, AS. m; akin to D. mond,
OS. m, G. mund, Icel. mu, munnr, Sw. mun, Dan. mund, Goth. mun, and
possibly L. mentum chin; or cf. D. muil mouth, muzzle, G. maul, OHG.
m, Icel. m, and Skr. mukha mouth.]

1. The opening through which an animal receives food; the aperture
between the jaws or between the lips; also, the cavity, containing
the tongue and teeth, between the lips and the pharynx; the buccal
cavity.

2. Hence:

Defn: An opening affording entrance or exit; orifice; aperture; as:
(a) The opening of a vessel by which it is filled or emptied, charged
or discharged; as, the mouth of a jar or pitcher; the mouth of the
lacteal vessels, etc.
(b) The opening or entrance of any cavity, as a cave, pit, well, or
den.
(c) The opening of a piece of ordnance, through which it is
discharged.
(d) The opening through which the waters of a river or any stream are
discharged.
(e) The entrance into a harbor.

3. (Saddlery)

Defn: The crosspiece of a bridle bit, which enters the mouth of an
animal.

4. A principal speaker; one who utters the common opinion; a
mouthpiece.
Every coffeehouse has some particular statesman belonging to it, who
is the mouth of the street where he lives. Addison.

5. Cry; voice. [Obs.] Dryden.

6. Speech; language; testimony.
That in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be
established. Matt. xviii. 16.

7. A wry face; a grimace; a mow.
Counterfeit sad looks, Make mouths upon me when I turn my back. Shak.
Down in the mouth, chapfallen; of dejected countenance; depressed;
discouraged. [Obs. or Colloq.] -- Mouth friend, one who professes
friendship insincerely. Shak.
 -- Mouth glass, a small mirror for inspecting the mouth or teeth.
 -- Mouth honor, honor given in words, but not felt. Shak.
 -- Mouth organ. (Mus.) (a) Pan's pipes. See Pandean. (b) An
harmonicon.
 -- Mouth pipe, an organ pipe with a lip or plate to cut the escaping
air and make a sound.
 -- To stop the mouth, to silence or be silent; to put to shame; to
confound.
The mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped. Ps. lxiii. 11.
Whose mouths must be stopped. Titus i. 11.

MOUTH
Mouth, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mouthed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mouthing.]

1. To take into the mouth; to seize or grind with the mouth or teeth;
to chew; to devour. Dryden.

2. To utter with a voice affectedly big or swelling; to speak in a
strained or unnaturally sonorous manner. "Mouthing big phrases."
Hare.
Mouthing out his hollow oes and aes. Tennyson.

3. To form or cleanse with the mouth; to lick, as a bear her cub. Sir
T. Browne.

4. To make mouths at. [R.] R. Blair.

MOUTH
Mouth, v. i.

1. To speak with a full, round, or loud, affected voice; to
vociferate; to rant.
I'll bellow out for Rome, and for my country, And mouth at Cæsar,
till I shake the senate. Addison.

2. To put mouth to mouth; to kiss. [R.] Shak.

3. To make grimaces, esp. in ridicule or contempt.
Well I know, when I am gone, How she mouths behind my back. Tennyson.

MOUTHED
Mouthed, a.

1. Furnished with a mouth.

2. Having a mouth of a particular kind; using the mouth, speech, or
voice in a particular way; -- used only in composition; as, wide-
mouthed; hard-mouthed; foul-mouthed; mealy-mouthed.

MOUTHER
Mouth"er, n.

Defn: One who mouths; an affected speaker.

MOUTH-FOOTED
Mouth"-foot`ed, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the basal joints of the legs converted into jaws.

MOUTHFUL
Mouth"ful, n.; pl. Mouthfuls (.

1. As much as is usually put into the mouth at one time.

2. Hence, a small quantity.

MOUTHLESS
Mouth"less, a. Etym: [AS. muedhleás.]

Defn: Destitute of a mouth.

MOUTH-MADE
Mouth"-made`, a.

Defn: Spoken without sincerity; not heartfelt. "Mouth-made vows."
Shak.

MOUTHPIECE
Mouth"piece`, n.

1. The part of a musical or other instrument to which the mouth is
applied in using it; as, the mouthpiece of a bugle, or of a tobacco
pipe.

2. An appendage to an inlet or outlet opening of a pipe or vessel, to
direct or facilitate the inflow or outflow of a fluid.

3. One who delivers the opinion of others or of another; a spokesman;
as, the mouthpiece of his party.
Egmont was imprudent enough to make himself the mouthpiece of their
remonstrance. Motley.

MOVABILITY
Mov`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Movableness.

MOVABLE
Mov"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. movable. See Move.]

1. Capable of being moved, lifted, carried, drawn, turned, or
conveyed, or in any way made to change place or posture; susceptible
of motion; not fixed or stationary; as, a movable steam engine.

2. Changing from one time to another; as, movable feasts, i. e.,
church festivals, the date of which varies from year to year. Movable
letter (Heb. Gram.), a letter that is pronounced, as opposed to one
that is quiescent.

MOVABLE
Mov"a*ble, n.; pl. Movables (.

1. An article of wares or goods; a commodity; a piece of property not
fixed, or not a part of real estate; generally, in the plural, goods;
wares; furniture.
Furnished with the most rich and princely movables. Evelyn.

2. (Rom. Law)

Defn: Property not attached to the soil.

Note: The word is not convertible with personal property, since rents
and similar incidents of the soil which are personal property by our
law are immovables by the Roman law. Wharton.

MOVABLENESS
Mov"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being movable; mobility; susceptibility
of motion.

MOVABLY
Mov"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a movable manner or condition.

MOVE
Move, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Moved; p. pr. & vb. n. Moving.] Etym: [OE.
moven, OF. moveir, F. mouvoir, L. movere; cf. Gr. miv, p.p. muta, to
move, push. Cf. Emotion, Mew to molt, Mob, Mutable, Mutiny.]

1. To cause to change place or posture in any manner; to set in
motion; to carry, convey, draw, or push from one place to another; to
impel; to stir; as, the wind moves a vessel; the horse moves a
carriage.

2. (Chess, Checkers, etc.)

Defn: To transfer (a piece or man) from one space or position to
another, according to the rules of the game; as, to move a king.

3. To excite to action by the presentation of motives; to rouse by
representation, persuasion, or appeal; to influence.
Minds desirous of revenge were not moved with gold. Knolles.
No female arts his mind could move. Dryden.

4. To arouse the feelings or passions of; especially, to excite to
tenderness or compassion; to touch pathetically; to excite, as an
emotion. Shak.
When he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them.
Matt. ix. 36.
[The use of images] in orations and poetry is to move pity or terror.
Felton.

5. To propose; to recommend; specifically, to propose formally for
consideration and determination, in a deliberative assembly; to
submit, as a resolution to be adopted; as, to move to adjourn.
Let me but move one question to your daughter. Shak.
They are to be blamed alike who move and who decline war upon
particular respects. Hayward.

6. To apply to, as for aid. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- To stir; agitate; trouble; affect; persuade; influence; actuate;
impel; rouse; prompt; instigate; incite; induce; incline; propose;
offer.

MOVE
Move, v. i.

1. To change place or posture; to stir; to go, in any manner, from
one place or position to another; as, a ship moves rapidly.
The foundations also of the hills moved and were shaken, because he
was wroth. Ps. xviii. 7.
On the green bank I sat and listened long, ... Nor till her lay was
ended could I move. Dryden.

2. To act; to take action; to stir; to begin to act; as, to move in a
matter.

3. To change residence; to remove, as from one house, town, or state,
to another.

4. (Chess, Checkers, etc.)

Defn: To change the place of a piece in accordance with the rules of
the game.

MOVE
Move, n.

1. The act of moving; a movement.

2. (Chess, Checkers, etc.)

Defn: The act of moving one of the pieces, from one position to
another, in the progress of the game.

3. An act for the attainment of an object; a step in the execution of
a plan or purpose. To make a move. (a) To take some action. (b) To
move a piece, as in a game.
 -- To be on the move, to bustle or stir about. [Colloq.]

MOVELESS
Move`less, a.

Defn: Motionless; fixed. "Moveless as a tower." Pope.

MOVEMENT
Move"ment, n. Etym: [F. mouvement. See Move, and cf. Moment.]

1. The act of moving; change of place or posture; transference, by
any means, from one situation to another; natural or appropriate
motion; progress; advancement; as, the movement of an army in
marching or maneuvering; the movement of a wheel or a machine; the
party of movement.

2. Motion of the mind or feelings; emotion.

3. Manner or style of moving; as, a slow, or quick, or sudden,
movement.

4. (Mus.)
(a) The rhythmical progression, pace, and tempo of a piece. "Any
change of time is a change of movement." Busby.
(b) One of the several strains or pieces, each complete in itself,
with its own time and rhythm, which make up a larger work; as, the
several movements of a suite or a symphony.

5. (Mech.)

Defn: A system of mechanism for transmitting motion of a definite
character, or for transforming motion; as, the wheelwork of a watch.
Febrille movement (Med.), an elevation of the body temperature; a
fever.
 -- Movement cure. (Med.) See Kinesiatrics.
 -- Movement of the bowels, an evacuation or stool; a passage or
discharge.

Syn.
 -- Motion.
 -- Movement, Motion. Motion expresses a general idea of not being at
rest; movement is oftener used to express a definite, regulated
motion, esp. a progress.

MOVENT
Mo"vent, a. Etym: [L. movens, p.pr. of movere. See Move.]

Defn: Moving. [R.] Grew.

MOVENT
Mo"vent, n.

Defn: That which moves anything. [R.]

MOVER
Mov"er, n.

1. A person or thing that moves, stirs, or changes place.

2. A person or thing that imparts motion, or causes change of place;
a motor.

3. One who, or that which, excites, instigates, or causes movement,
change, etc.; as, movers of sedition.
These most poisonous compounds, Which are the movers of a languishing
death. Shak.

4. A proposer; one who offers a proposition, or recommends anything
for consideration or adoption; as, the mover of a resolution in a
legislative body.

MOVIE
Mov"ie, n.

Defn: A moving picture or a moving picture show; -- commonly used in
pl. [Slang or Colloq.]

MOVING
Mov"ing, a.

1. Changing place or posture; causing motion or action; as, a moving
car, or power.

2. Exciting movement of the mind; adapted to move the sympathies,
passions, or affections; touching; pathetic; as, a moving appeal.
I sang an old moving story. Coleridge.
Moving force (Mech.), a force that accelerates, retards, or deflects
the motion of a body.
 -- Moving plant (Bot.), a leguminous plant (Desmodium gyrans); -- so
called because its leaflets have a distinct automatic motion.

MOVING
Mov"ing, n.

Defn: The act of changing place or posture; esp., the act of changing
one's dwelling place or place of business. Moving day, a day when one
moves; esp., a day when a large number of tenants change their
dwelling place.

MOVINGLY
Mov"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a moving manner. Addison.

MOVINGNESS
Mov"ing*ness, n.

Defn: The power of moving.

MOVING PICTURE
Moving picture.

Defn: A series of pictures, usually photographs taken with a special
machine, presented to the eye in very rapid succession, with some or
all of the objects in the picture represented in slightly changed
positions, producing, by persistence of vision, the optical effect of
a continuous picture in which the objects move in some manner, as
that of some original scene. The usual form of moving pictures is
that produced by the cinematograph.

MOW
Mow, n. [Written also moe and mowe.] Etym: [F. moue pouting, a wry
face; cf. OD. mouwe the protruded lip.]

Defn: A wry face. "Make mows at him." Shak.

MOW
Mow, v. i.

Defn: To make mouths.
Nodding, becking, and mowing. Tyndale.

MOW
Mow, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Mew, a gull.

MOW
Mow, v. [pres. sing. Mow, pl. Mowe, Mowen, Moun.] Etym: [AS. magan.
See May, v.]

Defn: May; can. "Thou mow now escapen." [Obs.] Chaucer.
Our walles mowe not make hem resistence. Chaucer.

MOW
Mow, v. t. [imp. Mowed; p. p. Mowed or Mown (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mowing.] Etym: [OE. mowen, mawen, AS. mawan; akin to D. maaijen, G.
mähen, OHG. majan, Dan. meie, L. metere to reap, mow, Gr. Math, Mead
a meadow, Meadow.]

1. To cut down, as grass, with a scythe or machine.

2. To cut the grass from; as, to mow a meadow.

3. To cut down; to cause to fall in rows or masses, as in mowing
grass; -- with down; as, a discharge of grapeshot mows down whole
ranks of men.

MOW
Mow, v. i.

Defn: To cut grass, etc., with a scythe, or with a machine; to cut
grass for hay.

MOW
Mow, n. Etym: [OE. mowe, AS. m.]

1. A heap or mass of hay or of sheaves of grain stowed in a barn.

2. The place in a barn where hay or grain in the sheaf is stowed.

MOW
Mow, v. t.

Defn: To lay, as hay or sheaves of grain, in a heap or mass in a
barn; to pile and stow away.

MOWBURN
Mow"burn`, v. i.

Defn: To heat and ferment in the mow, as hay when housed too green.

MOWE
Mowe, v.

Defn: See 4th Mow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOWE
Mowe, n. & v.

Defn: See 1st & 2d Mow. [Obs.]

MOWER
Mow"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, mows; a mowing machine; as, a lawn
mower.

MOWING
Mow"ing, n.

1. The act of one who, or the operation of that which, mows.

2. Land from which grass is cut; meadow land. Mowing machine, an
agricultural machine armed with knives or blades for cutting standing
grass, etc. It is drawn by a horse or horses, or propelled by steam.

MOWN
Mown, p. p. & a.

Defn: Cut down by mowing, as grass; deprived of grass by mowing; as,
a mown field.

MOWYER
Mow"yer, n.

Defn: A mower. [Obs.]

MOXA
Mox"a, n. Etym: [A corruption of Japan. mogusa (pronounced mongsa),
an escharotic made from the plant yomigi: cf. F. moxa.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A soft woolly mass prepared from the young leaves of Artemisia
Chinensis, and used as a cautery by burning it on the skin; hence,
any substance used in a like manner, as cotton impregnated with
niter, amadou.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant from which this substance is obtained, esp. Artemisia
Chinensis, and A. moxa.

MOXIE
Mox"ie, n. Etym: [fr. Moxie, a trade name for a beverage.]

1. energy; pep.

2. courage, determination.

3. Know-how, expertise. MW10.

MOYA
Moy"a, n.

Defn: Mud poured out from volcanoes during eruptions; -- so called in
South America.

MOYLE
Moyle, n. & v.

Defn: See Moil, and Moile.

MOZARAB; MOZARABIC
Moz"a*rab, Moz`a*rab"ic.

Defn: Same as Muzarab, Muzarabic.

MOZETTA; MOZZETTA
Mo*zet"ta, Moz*zet"ta, n. Etym: [It. mozzetta: cf. F. mosette. Cf.
Amice a hood or cape.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A cape, with a small hood; -- worn by the pope and other
dignitaries of the Roman Catholic Church.

MR.
Mr.. (.

Defn: The customary abbreviation of Mister in writing and printing.
See Master, 4.

MRS.
Mrs. (.

Defn: The customary abbreviation of Mistress when used as a title of
courtesy, in writing and printing.

MUCAMIDE
Mu*cam"ide, n. Etym: [Mucic + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: The acid amide of mucic acid, obtained as a white crystalline
substance.

MUCATE
Mu"cate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of mucic acid.

MUCE
Muce, n.

Defn: See Muse, and Muset.

MUCEDIN
Mu*ce"din, n. Etym: [From Mucus.] (Bot. Chem.)

Defn: A yellowish white, amorphous, nitrogenous substance found in
wheat, rye, etc., and resembling gluten; -- formerly called also
mucin.

MUCH
Much, a. [Compar. & superl. wanting, but supplied by More, and Most
(, from another root.] Etym: [OE. moche, muche, miche, prob. the same
as mochel, muchel, michel, mikel, fr. AS. micel, mycel; cf. Gr. mjök,
adv., much. *103. See Mickle.]

1. Great in quantity; long in duration; as, much rain has fallen;
much time.
Thou shalt carry much seed out into the field, and shalt gather but
little in. Deut. xxviii. 38.

2. Many in number. [Archaic]
Edom came out against him with much people. Num. xx. 20.

3. High in rank or position. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MUCH
Much, n.

1. A great quantity; a great deal; also, an indefinite quantity; as,
you have as much as I.
He that gathered much had nothing over. Ex. xvi. 18.

Note: Muchin this sense can be regarded as an adjective qualifying a
word unexpressed, and may, therefore, be modified by as, so, too,
very.

2. A thing uncommon, wonderful, or noticeable; something
considerable.
And [he] thought not much to clothe his enemies. Milton.
To make much of, to treat as something of especial value or worth.

MUCH
Much, adv. Etym: [Cf. Icel. mjök. See Much, a.]

Defn: To a great degree or extent; greatly; abundantly; far; nearly.
"Much suffering heroes." Pope.
Thou art much mightier than we. Gen. xxvi. 16.
Excellent speech becometh not a fool, much less do lying lips a
prince. Prov. xvii. 7.
Henceforth I fly not death, nor would prolong Life much. Milton.
All left the world much as they found it. Sir W. Temple.

MUCHEL
Much"el, a. Etym: [*103. See Mickle.]

Defn: Much. [Obs.]

MUCHNESS
Much"ness, n.

Defn: Greatness; extent. [Obs. or Colloq.]
The quantity and muchness of time which it filcheth. W. Whately.
Much of a muchness, much the same. [Colloq.] "Men's men; gentle or
simple, they 're much of muchness." G. Eliot.

MUCHWHAT
Much"what`, adv.

Defn: Nearly; almost; much. [Obs.] "Muchwhat after the same manner."
Glanvill.

MUCIC
Mu"cic, a. Etym: [L. mucus mucus: cf. F. mucique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, gums and micilaginous
substances; specif., denoting an acid obtained by the oxidation of
gums, dulcite, etc., as a white crystalline substance isomeric with
saccharic acid.

MUCID
Mu"cid, a. Etym: [L. mucidus, fr. L. mucus mucus. See Mucus, and cf.
Moist.]

Defn: Musty; moldy; slimy; mucous.
 -- Mu"cid*ness, n.

MUCIFIC
Mu*cif"ic, a. Etym: [Mucus + L. -ficare (in comp.) to make. See -fy.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Inducing or stimulating the secretion of mucus; blennogenous.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: Secreting mucus.

MUCIFORM
Mu"ci*form, a. Etym: [Mucus + -form.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Resembling mucus; having the character or appearance of mucus.

MUCIGEN
Mu"ci*gen, n. Etym: [Mucin + -gen.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A substance which is formed in mucous epithelial cells, and
gives rise to mucin.

MUCIGENOUS
Mu*cig"e*nous, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Connected with the formation of mucin; resembling mucin.
The mucigenous basis is manufactured at the expense of the ordinary
protoplasm of the cell. Foster.

MUCILAGE
Mu"ci*lage, n. Etym: [F., from L. mucilago a musty juice, fr. mucus
mucus, slime. See Mucus.]

1. (Bot. Chem.)

Defn: A gummy or gelatinous substance produced in certain plants by
the action of water on the cell wall, as in the seeds of quinces, of
flax, etc.

2. An aqueous solution of gum, or of substances allied to it; as,
medicinal mucilage; mucilage for fastening envelopes.

MUCILAGINOUS
Mu`ci*lag"i*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mucilagineux. See Mucilage.]

1. Partaking of the nature of, or resembling, mucilage; moist, soft,
and viscid; slimy; ropy; as, a mucilaginous liquid.

2. Of, pertaining to, or secreting, mucilage; as, the mucilaginous
glands.

3. Soluble in water, but not in alcohol; yielding mucilage; as,
mucilaginous gums or plants.
 -- Mu`ci*lag"i*nous*ness, n.

MUCIN
Mu"cin, n. Etym: [From Mucus.]

1. (Bot. Chem.)

Defn: See Mucedin. [Obs.]

2. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: An albuminoid substance which is contained in mucus, and gives
to the latter secretion its peculiar ropy character. It is found in
all the secretions from mucous glands, and also between the fibers of
connective tissue, as in tendons. See Illust. of Demilune.

MUCINOGEN
Mu*cin"o*gen, n. Etym: [Mucin + -gen.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Same as Mucigen.

MUCIPAROUS
Mu*cip"a*rous, a. Etym: [Mucus + L. parere to produce.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Secreting, or producing, mucus or mucin.

MUCIVORE
Mu"ci*vore, n. Etym: [L. mucus slime, mucus + vorare to devour.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An unsect which feeds on mucus, or the sap of plants, as
certain Diptera, of the tribe Mucivora.

MUCK
Muck

Defn: , abbreviation of Amuck. To run a muck. See Amuck.

MUCK
Muck, n. Etym: [Icel. myki; akin to D. mög. Cf. Midden.]

1. Dung in a moist state; manure. Bacon.

2. Vegetable mold mixed with earth, as found in low, damp places and
swamps.

3. Anything filthy or vile. Spenser.

4. Money; -- in contempt.
The fatal muck we quarreled for. Beau. & Fl.
Muck bar, bar iron which has been through the rolls only once.
 -- Muck iron, crude puddled iron ready for the squeezer or rollers.
Knight.

MUCK
Muck, a.

Defn: Like muck; mucky; also, used in collecting or distributing
muck; as, a muck fork.

MUCK
Muck, v. t.

Defn: To manure with muck.

MUCKENDER
Muck"en*der, n. Etym: [Sp. mocador. Cf. Mokadour.]

Defn: A handkerchief. [Obs.] [Written also muckinder, muckiter,
mockadour.]

MUCKER
Muck"er, n.

Defn: A term of reproach for a low or vulgar labor person. [Slang]

MUCKER
Muck"er, v. t.

Defn: To scrape together, as money, by mean labor or shifts. [Obs.]
Udall.

MUCKERER
Muck"er*er, n.

Defn: A miser; a niggard. [Obs.]

MUCKINESS
Muck"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being mucky.

MUCKLE
Muc"kle, a. Etym: [See Mickle.]

Defn: Much. [Obs.]

MUCKMIDDEN
Muck"mid`den, n.

Defn: A dunghill. [Scot.]

MUCK RAKE
Muck rake.

Defn: A rake for scraping up muck or dung. See Muckrake, v. i.,
below.

MUCK-RAKE; MUCKRAKE; MUCKRAKER
Muck"rake`, v. i.  [imp. & p. p. -raked; p. pr. & vb. n. -raking.]

Defn: To seek for, expose, or charge, esp. habitually, corruption,
real or alleged, on the part of public men and corporations. On April
14, 1906, President Roosevelt delivered a speech on "The Man with the
Muck Rake," in which he deprecated sweeping and unjust charges of
corruption against public men and corporations. The phrase was taken
up by the press, and the verb to muck"rake`, in the above sense, and
the noun muck"rak`er, to designate one so engaged, were speedily
coined and obtained wide currency. The original allusion was to a
character in Bunyan's "Pilgrim's Progress" so intent on raking up
muck that he could not see a celestial crown held above him.

MUCKSY
Muck"sy, a.

Defn: Somewhat mucky; soft, sticky, and dirty; muxy. [Prov. Eng.] R.
D. Blackmore.

MUCKWORM
Muck"worm`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A larva or grub that lives in muck or manure; -- applied to the
larvæ of the tumbledung and allied beetles.

2. One who scrapes together money by mean labor and devices; a miser.
"Misers are muckworms." Pope.

MUCKY
Muck"y, a.

1. Filthy with muck; miry; as, a mucky road. "Mucky filth." Spenser.

2. Vile, in a moral sense; sordid. [Obs.] Spenser.
Mucky money and false felicity. Latimer.

MUCOCELE
Mu"co*cele, n. Etym: [Mucus + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: An enlargement or protrusion of the mucous membrane of the
lachrymal passages, or dropsy of the lachrymal sac, dependent upon
catarrhal inflammation of the latter. Dunglison.

MUCOID
Mu"coid, a. Etym: [Mucus + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling mucus. Dunglison. Mucoid degeneration, a form of
degeneration in which the tissues are transformed into a semisolid
substance resembling mucus. Quain.

MUCONATE
Mu"co*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of muconic acid.

MUCONIC
Mu*con"ic, a. Etym: [Mucic + itaconic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid, obtained
indirectly from mucic acid, and somewhat resembling itaconic acid.

MUCOPURULENT
Mu`co*pu"ru*lent, a. Etym: [Mucus + purulent.] (Med.)

Defn: Having the character or appearance of both mucus and pus.
Dunglison.

MUCOR
Mu"cor, n. Etym: [L., fr. mucere to be moldy or musty.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of minute fungi. The plants consist of slender threads
with terminal globular sporangia; mold.

MUCOSITY
Mu*cos"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being mucous or slimy; mucousness.

MUCOUS
Mu"cous, a. Etym: [L. mucosus, fr. mucus mucus.]

1. Of, pertaining to, or resembling, mucus; slimy, ropy, or stringy,
and lubricous; as, a mucous substance.

2. Secreting a slimy or mucigenous substance; as, the mucous
membrane. Mucous membrane. (Anat.) See under Membrane.
 -- Mucous patches (Med.), elevated patches found in the mucous
membranes of the mouth and anus, usually due to syphilis.
 -- Mucous tissue (Anat.), a form of connective tissue in an early
stage of development, found in the umbilical cord and in the embryo,
and also in certain tumors called myxomata.

MUCOUSNESS
Mu"cous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being mucous; sliminess.

MUCRO
Mu"cro, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: A minute abrupt point, as of a leaf; any small, sharp point or
process, terminating a larger part or organ.

MUCRONATE; MUCRONATED
Mu"cro*nate, Mu"cro*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. mucronatus, fr. mucro a
sharp point: cf. F. mucroné.]

Defn: Ending abruptly in a sharp point; abruptly tipped with a short
and sharp point; as, a mucronate leaf.
 -- Mu"cro*nate*ly, adv.

MUCRONULATE
Mu*cron"u*late, a.

Defn: Having, or tipped with, a small point or points.

MUCULENT
Mu"cu*lent, a. Etym: [L. muculentus, fr. mucus.]

Defn: Slimy; moist, and moderately viscous.

MUCUS
Mu"cus, n. Etym: [L. mucus, muccus; cf. mucere 8be moldy or musty,
Gr. muc to release. Cf. Match for striking fire, Moist, Mucilage.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: A viscid fluid secreted by mucous membranes, which it serves to
moisten and protect. It covers the lining membranes of all the
cavities which open externally, such as those of the mouth, nose,
lungs, intestinal canal, urinary passages, etc.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: Any other animal fluid of a viscid quality, as the synovial
fluid, which lubricates the cavities of the joints; -- improperly so
used.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A gelatinous or slimy substance found in certain algæ and other
plants.

MUCUSIN
Mu"cus*in, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Mucin. [R.]

MUD
Mud, n. Etym: [Akin to LG. mudde, D. modder, G. moder mold, OSw. modd
mud, Sw. modder mother, Dan. mudder mud. Cf. Mother a scum on
liquors.]

Defn: Earth and water mixed so as to be soft and adhesive. Mud bass
(Zoöl.), a fresh-water fish (Acantharchum pomotis) of the Eastern
United States. It produces a deep grunting note.
 -- Mud bath, an immersion of the body, or some part of it, in mud
charged with medicinal agents, as a remedy for disease.
 -- Mud boat, a large flatboat used in deredging.
 -- Mud cat. See Catfish.
 -- Mud crab (Zoöl.), any one of several American marine crabs of the
genus Panopeus.
 -- Mud dab (Zoöl.), the winter flounder. See Flounder, and Dab.
 -- Mud dauber (Zoöl.), a mud wasp.
 -- Mud devil (Zoöl.), the fellbender.
 -- Mud drum (Steam Boilers), a drum beneath a boiler, into which
sediment and mud in the water can settle for removal.
 -- Mud eel (Zoöl.), a long, slender, aquatic amphibian (Siren
lacertina), found in the Southern United States. It has persistent
external gills and only the anterior pair of legs. See Siren.
 -- Mud frog (Zoöl.), a European frog (Pelobates fuscus).
 -- Mud hen. (Zoöl.) (a) The American coot (Fulica Americana). (b)
The clapper rail.
 -- Mud lark, a person who cleans sewers, or delves in mud. [Slang] -
- Mud minnow (Zoöl.), any small American fresh-water fish of the
genus Umbra, as U. limi. The genus is allied to the pickerels.
 -- Mud plug, a plug for stopping the mudhole of a boiler.
 -- Mud puppy (Zoöl.), the menobranchus.
 -- Mud scow, a heavy scow, used in dredging; a mud boat. [U.S.] --
Mud turtle, Mud tortoise (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of
fresh-water tortoises of the United States.
 -- Mud wasp (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of hymenopterous
insects belonging to Pepæus, and allied genera, which construct
groups of mud cells, attached, side by side, to stones or to the
woodwork of buildings, etc. The female places an egg in each cell,
together with spiders or other insects, paralyzed by a sting, to
serve as food for the larva. Called also mud dauber.

MUD
Mud, v. t.

1. To bury in mud. [R.] Shak.

2. To make muddy or turbid. Shak.

MUDAR
Mu"dar, n. Etym: [Hind. madar.] (Bot.)

Defn: Either one of two asclepiadaceous shrubs (Calotropis gigantea,
and C. procera), which furnish a strong and valuable fiber. The acrid
milky juice is used medicinally.

MUDARIN
Mu"da*rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A brown, amorphous, bitter substance having a strong emetic
action, extracted from the root of the mudar.

MUDDILY
Mud"di*ly

Defn: , In a muddy manner; turbidly; without mixture; cloudily;
obscurely; confusedly.

MUDDINESS
Mud"di*ness, n.

1. The condition or quality of being muddy; turbidness; foulness
casued by mud, dirt, or sediment; as, the muddiness of a stream.

2. Obscurity or confusion, as in treatment of a subject; intellectual
dullness.

MUDDLE
Mud"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Muddled; p. pr. & vb. n. Muddling.]
Etym: [From Mud.]

1. To make turbid, or muddy, as water. [Obs.]
He did ill to muddle the water. L'Estrange.

2. To cloud or stupefy; to render stupid with liquor; to intoxicate
partially.
Epicurus seems to have had brains so muddled and confounded, that he
scarce ever kept in the right way. Bentley.
Often drunk, always muddled. Arbuthnot.

3. To waste or misuse, as one does who is stupid or intoxicated. [R.]
They muddle it [money] away without method or object, and without
having anything to show for it. Hazlitt.

4. To mix confusedly; to confuse; to make a mess of; as, to muddle
matters; also, to perplex; to mystify. F. W. Newman.

MUDDLE
Mud"dle, v. i.

1. To dabble in mud. [Obs.] Swift.

2. To think and act in a confused, aimless way.

MUDDLE
Mud"dle, n.

Defn: A state of being turbid or confused; hence, intellectual
cloudiness or dullness.
We both grub on in a muddle. Dickens.

MUDDLEHEAD
Mud"dle*head`, n.

Defn: A stupid person. [Colloq.] C. Reade.
 -- Mud"dle-head`ed, a. [Colloq.] Dickens.

MUDDLER
Mud"dler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, muddles.

MUDDY
Mud"dy, a. [Compar. Muddier; superl. Muddiest.]

1. Abounding in mud; besmeared or dashed with mud; as, a muddy road
or path; muddy boots.

2. Turbid with mud; as, muddy water.

3. Consisting of mud or earth; gross; impure.
This muddy vesture of decay. Shak.

4. Confused, as if turbid with mud; cloudy in mind; dull; stupid;
also, immethodical; incoherent; vague.
Cold hearts and muddy understandings. Burke.
Dost think I am so muddy, so unsettled. Shak.

5. Not clear or bright. Swift.

MUDDY
Mud"dy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Muddied; p. pr. & vb. n. Muddying.]

1. To soil with mud; to dirty; to render turbid.

2. Fig.: To cloud; to make dull or heavy. Grew.

MUDDY-HEADED
Mud"dy-head`ed, a.

Defn: Dull; stupid.

MUDDY-METTLED
Mud"dy-met`tled, a.

Defn: Dull-spirited. Shak.

MUDFISH
Mud"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The European loach.
(b) The bowfin.
(c) The South American lipedosiren, and the allied African species
(Protopterus annectens). See Lipedosiren.
(d) The mud minnow.

MUDHOLE
Mud"hole`, n.

1. A hole, or hollow place, containing mud, as in a road.

2. (Steam Boilers)

Defn: A hole near the bottom, through which the sediment is
withdrawn.

MUDIR
Mu"dir, n.

Defn: Same as Moodir.

MUDSILL
Mud"sill`, n.

Defn: The lowest sill of a structure, usually embedded in the soil;
the lowest timber of a house; also, that sill or timber of a bridge
which is laid at the bottom of the water. See Sill.

MUDSUCKER
Mud"suck`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A woodcock.

MUDWALL
Mud"wall`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European bee-eater. See Bee-eater. [Written also modwall.]

MUDWORT
Mud"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A small herbaceous plant growing on muddy shores (Limosella
aquatica).

MUE
Mue, v. i.

Defn: To mew; to molt. [Obs.] Quarles.

MUEZZIN
Mu*ez"zin, n. Etym: [Ar.]

Defn: A Mohammedan crier of the hour of prayer. [Written also
mouezzin, mueddin, and muwazzin.]

MUFF
Muff, n. Etym: [Cf. LG. muff, D. mof, G., Dan., & Sw. muff, F. moufle
mitten, LL. muffula, MHG. mouwe sleeve, D. mouw, and E. muffle, v.]

1. A soft cover of cylindrical form, usually of fur, worn by women to
shield the hands from cold.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: A short hollow cylinder surrounding an object, as a pipe.

3. (Glass Manuf.)

Defn: A blown cylinder of glass which is afterward flattened out to
make a sheet.

4. Etym: [Perhaps a different word; cf. Prov. E. maffle to slammer.]

Defn: A stupid fellow; a poor-spirited person. [Colloq.] "A muff of a
curate." Thackeray.

5. Etym: [See 4.] (Baseball)

Defn: A failure to hold a ball when once in the hands.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The whitethroat. [Prov. Eng.]

MUFF
Muff, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Muffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Muffing.]

Defn: To handle awkwardly; to fumble; to fail to hold, as a ball, in
catching it.

MUFFETEE
Muf`fe*tee", n.

Defn: A small muff worn over the wrist. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

MUFFIN
Muf"fin, n. Etym: [From Muff.]

Defn: A light, spongy, cylindrical cake, used for breakfast and tea.

MUFFINEER
Muf`fin*eer", n.

Defn: A dish for keeping muffins hot.

MUFFISH
Muff"ish, a. Etym: [See Muff, 4 & 5.]

Defn: Stupid; awkward. [Colloq.]

MUFFLE
Muf"fle, n.

Defn: The bare end of the nose between the nostrils; -- used esp. of
ruminants.

MUFFLE
Muf"fle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Muffled; p. pr. & vb. n. Muffling.]
Etym: [Cf. F. moufle a mitten, LL. muffula, OD. moffel a muff. See
Muff.]

1. To wrap up in something that conceals or protects; to wrap, as the
face and neck, in thick and disguishing folds; hence, to conceal or
cover the face of; to envelop; to inclose; -- often with up. South.
The face lies muffled up within the garment. Addison.
He muffled with a cloud his mournful eyes. Dryden.
Muffled up in darkness and superstition. Arbuthnot.

2. To prevent seeing, or hearing, or speaking, by wraps bound about
the head; to blindfold; to deafen.

3. To wrap with something that dulls or deadens the sound of; as, to
muffle the strings of a drum, or that part of an oar which rests in
the rowlock.

MUFFLE
Muf"fle, v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. maffle, mumble, D. moffelen.]

Defn: To speak indistinctly, or without clear articulation.

MUFFLE
Muf"fle, n. Etym: [F. moufle, prop., a mitten, from the resemblance
in shape. See Muffle, v. t., Muff.]

1. Anything with which another thing, as an oar or drum, is muffled;
also, a boxing glove; a muff.

2. (Metal.)

Defn: An earthenware compartment or oven, often shaped like a half
cylinder, used in furnaces to protect objects heated from the direct
action of the fire, as in scorification of ores, cupellation of ore
buttons, etc.

3. (Ceramics)

Defn: A small oven for baking and fixing the colors of painted or
printed pottery, without exposing the pottery to the flames of the
furnace or kiln.

4. A pulley block containing several sheaves. Knight.

MUFFLER
Muf"fler, n.

1. Anything used in muffling; esp., a scarf for protecting the head
and neck in cold weather; a tippet.
Fortune is painted blind, with a muffler above her eyes. Shak.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A cushion for terminating or softening a note made by a
stringed instrument with a keyboard.

3. A kind of mitten or boxing glove, esp. when stuffed.

4. One who muffles.

MUFLON
Muf"lon, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mouflon.

MUFTI
Muf"ti, n.; pl. Muftis. Etym: [Ar. mufti.]

Defn: An official expounder of Mohammedan law.

MUFTI
Muf"ti, n.

Defn: Citizen's dress when worn by a naval or military officer; -- a
term derived from the British service in India. [Colloq. Eng.]

MUG
Mug, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. mugam a mug, mucog a cup.]

1. A kind of earthen or metal drinking cup, with a handle, -- usually
cylindrical and without a lip.

2. The face or mouth. [Slang] Thackeray.

MUGGARD
Mug"gard, a. Etym: [Cf. G. mucker a sulky person, muckish sullen,
peevish, mucken to mutter, grumble.]

Defn: Sullen; displeased. [Obs.]

MUGGER; MUGGAR; MUGGUR
Mug"ger, n. Also Mug"gar, Mug"gur. [Hind. magar, fr. Skr. makara sea
monster.]

Defn: The common crocodile (Crocodilus palustris) of India, the East
Indies, etc. It becomes twelve feet or more long.

MUGGET
Mug"get, n.

Defn: The small entrails of a calf or a hog.

MUGGINESS
Mug"gi*ness, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of being muggy.

MUGGINS
Mug"gins, n. [Etym. unknown.]

1. A game of dominoes in which the object is to make the sum of the
two ends of the line some multiple of five.

2.  A game at cards which depends upon building in suits or matching
exposed cards, the object being to get rid of one's cards.

MUGGINS
Mug"gins, v. t.

Defn: In certain games, to score against, or take an advantage over
(an opponent), as for an error, announcing the act by saying
"muggins."

MUGGISH
Mug"gish, a.

Defn: See Muggy.

MUGGLETONIAN
Mug`gle*to"ni*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of an extinct sect, named after Ludovic Muggleton, an
English journeyman tailor, who (about 1657) claimed to be inspired.
Eadie.

MUGGY
Mug"gy, a. [Compar. Muggier; superl. Muggiest.] Etym: [Cf. Icel.
mugga mist, mugginess. Cf. 4th Mold.]

1. Moist; damp; moldy; as, muggy straw.

2. Warm, damp, and close; as, muggy air, weather.

MUGHOUSE
Mug"house`, n.

Defn: An alehouse; a pothouse. Tickel.

MUGIENCY
Mu"gi*en*cy, n.

Defn: A bellowing. [Obs.]

MUGIENT
Mu"gi*ent, a. Etym: [L. mugiens, p.pr. of mugire to bellow.]

Defn: Lowing; bellowing. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

MUGIL
Mu"gil, n. Etym: [L., a sort of fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fishes including the gray mullets. See Mullet.

MUGILOID
Mu"gi*loid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the genus Mugil, or family Mugilidæ.

MUGWEED
Mug"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A slender European weed (Galium Cruciata); -- called also
crossweed.

MUGWORT
Mug"wort`, n. Etym: [AS. mucgwyrt. Cf. Midge.] (Bot.)

Defn: A somewhat aromatic composite weed (Artemisia vulgaris), at one
time used medicinally; -- called also motherwort.

MUGWUMP
Mug"wump`, n. Etym: [Cf. Algonquin mugquomp a chief.]

Defn: A bolter from the Republican party in the national election of
1884; an Independent. [Political Cant, U.S.]

MUGWUMPERY; MUGWUMPISM
Mug"wump`er*y, Mug"wump*ism, n.

Defn: The acts and views of the mugwumps. [Political Cant, U.S.]

MUHAMMADAN; MUHAMMEDAN
Mu*ham"mad*an, Mu*ham"med*an, a. & n.

Defn: Mohammedan.

MUHAMMADANISM
Mu*ham"mad*an*ism, n.

Defn: Mohammedanism.

MULADA
Mu*la"da, n.

Defn: A moor. [Scot.] Lockhart.

MULADA
Mu*la"da, n. Etym: [Sp. Amer., fr. Sp. mulo, mula, a mule.]

Defn: A drove of mules. [Southwest. U.S.]

MULATTO
Mu*lat"to, n.; pl. Mulattoes. Etym: [Sp. & Pg. mulato, masc., mulata,
fem., of a mixed breed, fr. mulo mule, L. mulus. See Mule.]

Defn: The offspring of a negress by a white man, or of a white woman
by a negro, -- usually of a brownish yellow complexion.

MULATTRESS
Mu*lat"tress, n.

Defn: A female mulatto. G. W. Gable.

MULBERRY
Mul"ber*ry, n.; pl. Mulberries. Etym: [OE. moolbery, murberie, AS.
murberie, where the first part is fr. L. morum mulberry; cf. Gr.
Murrey, Sycamore.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The berry or fruit of any tree of the genus Morus; also, the
tree itself. See Morus.

2. A dark pure color, like the hue of a black mulberry. Mulberry
mass. (Biol.) See Morula.
 -- Paper mulberry, a tree (Broussonetia papyrifera), related to the
true mulberry, used in Polynesia for making tapa cloth by macerating
and pounding the inner bark, and in China and Japan for the
manufacture of paper. It is seen as a shade tree in America.

MULBERRY-FACED
Mul"ber*ry-faced` (-fast`), a.

Defn: Having a face of a mulberry color, or blotched as if with
mulberry stains.

MULCH
Mulch, n. Etym: [Cf. mull dirt, also Prov. G. mulsch, molsch, rotten,
soft, mellow, as fruit.]

Defn: Half-rotten straw, or any like substance strewn on the ground,
as over the roots of plants, to protect from heat, drought, etc., and
to preserve moisture.

MULCH
Mulch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mulched; p. pr. & vb. n. Mulching.]

Defn: To cover or dress with mulch.

MULCT
Mulct, n. Etym: [L. mulcta, multa.]

1. A fine or penalty, esp. a pecuniary punishment or penalty.

2. A blemish or defect. [Obs.]

Syn.
 -- Amercement; forfeit; forfeiture; penalty.

MULCT
Mulct, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mulcted; p. pr. & vb. n. Mulcting.] Etym:
[L. mulctare, multare.]

1. To punish for an offense or misdemeanor by imposing a fine or
forfeiture, esp. a pecuniary fine; to fine.

2. Hence, to deprive of; to withhold by way of punishment or
discipline. [Obs.]

MULCTARY; MULCTUARY
Mulc"ta*ry, Mulc"tu*a*ry, a.

Defn: Imposing a pecuniary penalty; consisting of, or paid as, a
fine.
Fines, or some known mulctuary punishments. Sir W. Temple.

MULE
Mule, n. Etym: [F., a she-mule, L. mula, fem. of mulus; cf. Gr. m,
fr. L. mulus. Cf. Mulatto.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hybrid animal; specifically, one generated between an ass and
a mare, sometimes a horse and a she-ass. See Hinny.

Note: Mules are much used as draught animals. They are hardy, and
proverbial for stubbornness.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant or vegetable produced by impregnating the pistil of one
species with the pollen or fecundating dust of another; -- called
also hybrid.

3. A very stubborn person.

4. A machine, used in factories, for spinning cotton, wool, etc.,
into yarn or thread and winding it into cops; -- called also jenny
and mule-jenny. Mule armadillo (Zoöl.), a long-eared armadillo
(Tatusia hybrida), native of Buenos Ayres; -- called also mulita. See
Illust. under Armadillo.
 -- Mule deer (Zoöl.), a large deer (Cervus, or Cariacus, macrotis)
of the Western United States. The name refers to its long ears.
 -- Mule pulley (Mach.), an idle pulley for guiding a belt which
transmits motion between shafts that are not parallel.
 -- Mule twist, cotton yarn in cops, as spun on a mule; -- in
distinction from yarn spun on a throstle frame.

MULE-JENNY
Mule"-jen`ny, n.

Defn: See Mule, 4.

MULE KILLER
Mule killer.

Defn: Any of several arthropods erroneously supposed to kill live
stock, in the southern United States, by stinging or by being
swallowed; as:
 (a) A whip scorpion. [Florida]
 (b) A walking-stick insect. [Texas]
 (c) A mantis.
 (d) A wheel bug.

MULETEER
Mu`le*teer", n. Etym: [F. muletier, fr. mulet a mule, dim. fr. L.
mulus.]

Defn: One who drives mules.

MULEWORT
Mule"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A fern of the genus Hemionitis.

MULEY
Mu"ley, n. (Sawmills)

Defn: A stiff, long saw, guided at the ends but not stretched in a
gate. Muley axle (Railroad), a car axle without collars at the outer
ends of the journals. Forney.

MULEY
Mul"ey, n.

Defn: See Mulley.

MULIEBRITY
Mu`li*eb"ri*ty, n. Etym: [L. muliebritas, fr. muliebris belonging to
a woman, fr. mulier a woman.]

1. The state of being a woman or of possessing full womanly powers;
womanhood; -- correlate of virility.

2. Hence: Effeminancy; softness.

MULIER
Mu"li*er, n. Etym: [L., a woman.]

1. A woman.

2. (Law)
(a) Lawful issue born in wedlock, in distinction from an elder
brother born of the same parents before their marriage; a lawful son.
(b) (Civ. Law) A woman; a wife; a mother. Blount. Cowell.

MULIERLY
Mu"li*er*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner or condition of a mulier; in wedlock;
legitimately. [Obs.]

MULIEROSE
Mu"li*er*ose`, a. Etym: [L. mulierosus.]

Defn: Fond of woman. [R.] Charles Reade.

MULIEROSITY
Mu`li*er*os"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. mulierositas.]

Defn: A fondness for women. [R.] Dr. H. More.

MULIERTY
Mu"li*er*ty, n. (Law)

Defn: Condition of being a mulier; position of one born in lawful
wedlock.

MULISH
Mul"ish, a.

Defn: Like a mule; sullen; stubborn.
 -- Mul"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Mul"ish*ness, n.

MULL
Mull, n. Etym: [Perh. contr. fr. mossul. See Muslin.]

Defn: A thin, soft kind of muslin.

MULL
Mull, n. Etym: [Icel. m a snout, muzzle, projecting crag; or cf. Ir.
& Gael. meall a heap of earth, a mound, a hill or eminence, W. moel.
Cf. Mouth.]

1. A promontory; as, the Mull of Cantyre. [Scot.]

2. A snuffbox made of the small end of a horn.

MULL
Mull, n. Etym: [Prob. akin to mold. *108. See Mold.]

Defn: Dirt; rubbish. [Obs.] Gower.

MULL
Mull, v. t. Etym: [OE. mullen. See 2d Muller.]

Defn: To powder; to pulverize. [Prov. Eng.]

MULL
Mull, v. i.

Defn: To work (over) mentally; to cogitate; to ruminate; -- usually
with over; as, to mull over a thought or a problem. [Colloq. U.S.]

MULL
Mull, n.

Defn: An inferior kind of madder prepared from the smaller roots or
the peelings and refuse of the larger.

MULL
Mull, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mulled; p. pr. & vb. n. Mulling.] Etym:
[From mulled, for mold, taken as a p.p.; OE. mold-ale funeral ale or
banquet. See Mold soil.]

1. To heat, sweeten, and enrich with spices; as, to mull wine.
New cider, mulled with ginger warm. Gay.

2. To dispirit or deaden; to dull or blunt. Shak.

MULLA
Mul"la, n.

Defn: Same as Mollah.

MULLAGATAWNY
Mul`la*ga*taw"ny, n. Etym: [Tamil milagu-tannir pepper water.]

Defn: An East Indian curry soup.

MULLAH
Mul"lah, n.

Defn: See Mollah.

MULLAR
Mul"lar, n.

Defn: A die, cut in intaglio, for stamping an ornament in relief, as
upon metal.

MULLEIN
Mul"lein, n. Etym: [OE. moleyn, AS. molegn.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Verbascum. They are tall herbs having
coarse leaves, and large flowers in dense spikes. The common species,
with densely woolly leaves, is Verbascum Thapsus. Moth mullein. See
under Moth.
 -- Mullein foxglove, an American herb (Seymeria macrophylla) with
coarse leaves and yellow tubular flowers with a spreading border.
 -- Petty mullein, the cowslip. Dr. Prior.

MULLEN
Mul"len, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Mullein.

MULLER
Mull"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, mulls.

2. A vessel in which wine, etc., is mulled over a fire.

MULLER
Mull"er, n. Etym: [OE. mullen to pulverize, bruise; cf. Icel. mylja;
prob. akin to E. mold soil. See Mold soil, and cf. Mull dirt.]

Defn: A stone or thick lump of glass, or kind of pestle, flat at the
bottom, used for grinding pigments or drugs, etc., upon a slab of
similar material.

MULLERIAN; MUELLERIAN
Mül*le"ri*an, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Johannes Müller. Müllerian
ducts (Anat.), a pair of embryonic ducts which give rise to the
genital passages in the female, but disappear in the male.
 -- Müllerian fibers (Anat.), the sustentacular or connective-tissue
fibers which form the framework of the retina.

MULLET
Mul"let, n. Etym: [OE. molet, mulet, F. mulet, fr. L. mullus.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous fishes of the genus Mugil; -- called also
gray mullets. They are found on the coasts of both continents, and
are highly esteemed as food. Among the most valuable species are
Mugil capito of Europe, and M. cephalus which occurs both on the
European and American coasts.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of the genus Mullus, or family Mullidæ; called also
red mullet, and surmullet, esp. the plain surmullet (Mullus
barbatus), and the striped surmullet (M. surmulletus) of Southern
Europe. The former is the mullet of the Romans. It is noted for the
brilliancy of its colors. See Surmullet. French mullet. See Ladyfish
(a).

MULLET
Mul"let, n. Etym: [F. molette.] (Her.)

Defn: A star, usually five pointed and pierced; -- when used as a
difference it indicates the third son.

MULLET
Mul"let, n. Etym: [Cf. F. molet a sort of pinchers.]

Defn: Small pinchers for curling the hair. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

MULLEY; MOOLLEY
Mul"ley, Mool"ley, n. Etym: [CF. Gael. maolag a hornless cow, maol
bald, hornless, blunt.]

1. A mulley or polled animal. [U. S.]

2. A cow. [Prov. Eng.; U.S., a child's word.]
Leave milking and dry up old mulley, thy cow. Tusser.

MULLEY; MOOLLEY
Mul"ley, Mool"ley, a.

Defn: Destitute of horns, although belonging to a species of animals
most of which have horns; hornless; polled; as, mulley cattle; a
mulley (or moolley) cow. [U. S.] [Written also muley.]

MULLIGATAWNY
Mul`li*ga*taw"ny, n.

Defn: See Mullagatawny.

MULLIGRUBS
Mul"li*grubs, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. mull to squeeze, pull about,
mulling numb or dull.]

1. A griping of the intestines; colic. [Slang]
Whose dog lies sick of the mulligrubs Beau. & Fl.

2. Hence, sullenness; the sulks. [Slang]

MULLINGONG
Mul"lin*gong, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Duck mole, under Duck. [Written also mollingong.]

MULLION
Mul"lion, n. Etym: [A corruption of munnion, F. moignon stump of an
amputated limb, stump, OF. moing mutilated; cf. Armor. moñ, mouñ,
mank, monk, and also L. mancus maimed.] (Arch.)
(a) A slender bar or pier which forms the division between the lights
of windows, screens, etc.
(b) An upright member of a framing. See Stile.

MULLION
Mul"lion, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with mullions; to divide by mullions.

MULLOCK
Mul"lock, n. Etym: [From Mull dirt: cf. Scot. mulloch, mulock, crumb.
*108.]

Defn: Rubbish; refuse; dirt. [Obs.]
All this mullok [was] in a sieve ythrowe. Chaucer.

MULLOID
Mul"loid, a. Etym: [NL. Mullus, generic name (fr. L. mullus
surmullet) + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the genus Mullus, which includes the
surmullet, or red mullet.

MULMUL
Mul"mul, n.

Defn: A fine, soft muslin; mull.

MULSE
Mulse, n. Etym: [L. mulsum (sc. vinum), fr. mulsus mixed with honey,
honey-sweet, p.p. of mulcere to sweeten, soften.]

Defn: Wine boiled and mingled with honey.

MULT-
Mult-.

Defn: See Multi-.

MULTANGULAR
Mul*tan"gu*lar, a. Etym: [L. multangulus; multus much, many + angulus
angle: cf. F. multangulaire.]

Defn: Having many angles.
 -- Mul*tan"gu*lar*ly, adv.
 -- Mul*tan"gu*lar*ness, n.

MULTANIMOUS
Mul*tan"i*mous, a. Etym: [Mult- + L. animus mind.]

Defn: Many-minded; many-sided.
The multanimous nature of the poet. J. R. Lowell.

MULTARTICULATE
Mul`tar*tic"u*late, a. Etym: [Mult- + articulate.]

Defn: Having many articulations or joints.

MULTEITY
Mul*te"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. multus much, many.]

Defn: Multiplicity. [R.] Coleridge.

MULTI-; MULT-
Mul"ti-, Mult-. Etym: [L. multus much.]

Defn: A prefix signifying much or many; several; more than one; as,
multiaxial, multocular.

MULTIAXIAL
Mul`ti*ax"i*al, a. Etym: [Multi- + axial.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having more than one axis; developing in more than a single
line or plain; -- opposed to Ant: monoaxial.

MULTICAPSULAR
Mul`ti*cap"su*lar, a. Etym: [Multi- + capsular: cf. F.
multicapsulaire.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having many, or several, capsules.

MULTICARINATE
Mul`ti*car"i*nate, a. Etym: [Multi- + carinate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Many-keeled.

MULTICAVOUS
Mul`ti*ca"vous, a. Etym: [L. multicavus; multus much, many + cavum,
cavus, a cavity, hole, fr. cavus hollow.]

Defn: Having many cavities.

MULTICELLULAR
Mul`ti*cel"lu*lar, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or having, many cells or more than one cell.

MULTICENTRAL
Mul`ti*cen"tral, a. Etym: [Multi- + central.]

Defn: Having many, or several, centers; as, a multicentral cell.
Multicental development (Biol.), growth, or development, from several
centers. According as the insubordination to a single center is more
or less pronounced, the resultant organism will be more or less
irregular in form and may even discontinuous.

MULTICIPITAL
Mul`ti*cip"i*tal, a. Etym: [Multi- + L. caput head.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having many heads or many stems from one crown or root. Gray.

MULTICOLOR
Mul"ti*col`or, a. Etym: [See Multi-, and Color.]

Defn: Having many, or several, colors.

MULTICOSTATE
Mul`ti*cos"tate, a. Etym: [Multi- + costate.]

Defn: Having numerous ribs, or costæ, as the leaf of a plant, or as
certain shells and corals.

MULTICUSPID
Mul`ti*cus"pid, a. Etym: [See Multi-, and Cuspid.]

Defn: Multicuspidate; -- said of teeth.

MULTICUSPIDATE
Mul`ti*cus"pi*date, a. Etym: [Multi- + cuspidate.]

Defn: Having many cusps or points.

MULTIDENTATE
Mul`ti*den"tate, a. Etym: [Multi- + dentate.]

Defn: Having many teeth, or toothlike processes.

MULTIDIGITATE
Mul`ti*dig"i*tate, a. Etym: [Multi- + digitate.]

Defn: Having many fingers, or fingerlike processes.

MULTIFACED
Mul"ti*faced`, a. Etym: [Multi- + face.]

Defn: Having many faces.

MULTIFARIOUS
Mul`ti*fa"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. multifarius; multus much, many. Cf.
Bifarious.]

1. Having multiplicity; having great diversity or variety; of various
kinds; diversified; made up of many differing parts; manifold.
There is a multifarious artifice in the structure of the meanest
animal. Dr. H. More.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having parts, as leaves, arranged in many vertical rows.

MULTIFARIOUSLY
Mul`ti*fa"ri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: With great multiplicity and diversity; with variety of modes
and relations.

MULTIFARIOUSNESS
Mul`ti*fa"ri*ous*ness, n.

1. Multiplied diversity.

2. (Law)

Defn: The fault of improperly uniting in one bill distinct and
independent matters, and thereby confounding them. Burrill.

MULTIFEROUS
Mul*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. multifer; multus much, many + ferre to
bear.]

Defn: Bearing or producing much or many. [R.]

MULTIFID
Mul"ti*fid, a. Etym: [L. multifidus; multus much, many + findere to
split: cf. F. multifide.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having many segments; cleft into several parts by linear
sinuses; as, a multifid leaf or corolla.

MULTIFLOROUS
Mul`ti*flo"rous, a. Etym: [L. multiflorus; multus much, many + flos,
floris, flower: cf. F. multiflore.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having many flowers.

MULTIFLUE
Mul"ti*flue, a. Etym: [Multi- + flue.]

Defn: Having many flues; as, a multiflue boiler. See Boiler.

MULTIFOIL
Mul"ti*foil, n. Etym: [Multi- + foil.] (Arch.)

Defn: An ornamental foliation consisting of more than five divisions
or foils. [R.] See Foil.

MULTIFOIL
Mul"ti*foil, a.

Defn: Having more than five divisions or foils.

MULTIFOLD
Mul"ti*fold, a. Etym: [Multi- + fold.]

Defn: Many times doubled; manifold; numerous.

MULTIFORM
Mul"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. multiformis; multus much, many + forma
shape: cf. F. multiforme.]

Defn: Having many forms, shapes, or appearances.
A plastic and multiform unit. Hare.

MULTIFORMITY
Mul`ti*form"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. multiformitas.]

Defn: The quality of being multiform; diversity of forms; variety of
appearances in the same thing. Purchas.

MULTIFORMOUS
Mul`ti*form"ous, a.

Defn: Multiform. [Obs.]

MULTIGENEROUS
Mul`ti*gen"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. multigenerus; multus + genus,
generis, kind.]

Defn: Having many kinds.

MULTIGRANULATE
Mul`ti*gran"u*late, a. Etym: [Multi- + granulate.]

Defn: Having, or consisting of, many grains.

MULTIGRAPH
Mul"ti*graph, n.  [Multi- + -graph.]

Defn: A combined rotary type-setting and printing machine for office
use. The type is transferred semi-automatically by means of keys from
a type-supply drum to a printing drum. The printing may be done by
means of an inked ribbon to print "typewritten" letters, or directly
from inked type or a stereotype plate, as in a printing press.

MULTIJUGATE
Mul*tij"u*gate, a.

Defn: Having many pairs of leaflets.

MULTIJUGOUS
Mul*tij"u*gous, a. Etym: [L. multijugus; multus + jugum yoke.]

1. Consisting of many parts.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Multijugate.

MULTILATERAL
Mul`ti*lat"er*al, a. Etym: [Multi- + lateral.]

Defn: Having many sides; many-sided.

MULTILINEAL
Mul`ti*lin"e*al, a. Etym: [Multi- + lineal.]

Defn: Having many lines. Steevens.

MULTILOBAR
Mul`ti*lo"bar, a. Etym: [Multi- + lobar.]

Defn: Consisting of, or having, many lobes.

MULTILOCULAR
Mul`ti*loc"u*lar, a. Etym: [Multi- + locular: cf. F. multiloculaire.]

Defn: Having many or several cells or compartments; as, a
multilocular shell or capsule.

MULTILOQUENCE
Mul*til"o*quence, n.

Defn: Quality of being multiloquent; use of many words;
talkativeness.

MULTILOQUENT; MULTILOQUOUS
Mul*til"o*quent, Mul*til"o*quous, a. Etym: [L. multiloquus; multus
much, many + loqui to speak.]

Defn: Speaking much; very talkative; loquacious.

MULTILOQUY
Mul*til"o*quy, n. Etym: [L. multiloquium.]

Defn: Excess of words or talk. [R.]

MULTINODATE
Mul`ti*no"date, a. Etym: [Multi- + nodate.]

Defn: Having many knots or nodes.

MULTINODOUS
Mul`ti*no"dous, a. Etym: [L. multinodus.]

Defn: Same as Multinodate.

MULTINOMIAL
Mul`ti*no"mi*al, n. & a. Etym: [Multi- + -nomial, as in binomial. See
Binomial.] (Alg.)

Defn: Same as Polynomial.

MULTINOMINAL; MULTINOMINOUS
Mul`ti*nom"i*nal, Mul`ti*nom"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. multinominis;
multus many + nomen nominis name.]

Defn: Having many names or terms.

MULTINUCLEAR
Mul`ti*nu"cle*ar, a. Etym: [Multi- + nuclear.] (Biol.)

Defn: Containing many nuclei; as, multinuclear cells.

MULTINUCLEATE; MULTINUCLEATED
Mul`ti*nu"cle*ate, Mul`ti*nu"cle*a`ted, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Multinuclear.

MULTIPAROUS
Mul*tip"a*rous, a. Etym: [Multi- + L. parere to produce: cf. F.
multipare.]

Defn: Producing many, or more than one, at a birth.

MULTIPARTITE
Mul*tip"ar*tite, a. Etym: [L. multipartitus multus much, many
partitus divided, p.p.: cf. F. multipartite. See Partite.]

Defn: Divided into many parts; having several parts.

MULTIPED
Mul"ti*ped, n. Etym: [L. multipes, multipeda; multus much, many +
pes, pedis, foot: cf. F. multipède.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect having many feet, as a myriapod.

MULTIPED
Mul"ti*ped, a.

Defn: Having many feet.

MULTIPHASE
Mul"ti*phase, a.  [Multi- + phase.]

Defn: Having many phases; specif. (Elec.),

Defn: pertaining to, or designating, a generator producing, or any
system conveying or utilizing, two or more waves of pressure, or
electromotive force, not in phase with each other; polyphase.

MULTIPLANE
Mul"ti*plane, a.

Defn: Having several or many planes or plane surfaces; as, a
multiplane kite.

MULTIPLANE
Mul"ti*plane, n.  [Multi- + plane.] (Aëronautics)

Defn: An aëroplane with three or more superposed main planes.

MULTIPLE
Mul"ti*ple, a. Etym: [Cf. F. multiple, and E. quadruple, and
multiply.]

Defn: Containing more than once, or more than one; consisting of more
than one; manifold; repeated many times; having several, or many,
parts. Law of multiple proportion (Chem.), the generalization that
when the same elements unite in more than one proportion, forming two
or more different compounds, the higher proportions of the elements
in such compounds are simple multiplies of the lowest proportion, or
the proportions are connected by some simple common factor; thus,
iron and oxygen unite in the proportions FeO, Fe2O3, Fe3O4, in which
compounds, considering the oxygen, 3 and 4 are simple multiplies of
1. Called also the Law of Dalton, from its discoverer.
 -- Multiple algebra, a branch of advanced mathematics that treats of
operations upon units compounded of two or more unlike units.
 -- Multiple conjugation (Biol.), a coalescence of many cells (as
where an indefinite number of amoeboid cells flow together into a
single mass) from which conjugation proper and even fertilization may
have been evolved.
 -- Multiple fruits. (Bot.) See Collective fruit, under Collective.
 -- Multiple star (Astron.), several stars in close proximity, which
appear to form a single system.

MULTIPLE
Mul"ti*ple, n. (Math.)

Defn: A quantity containing another quantity a number of times
without a remainder.

Note: A common multiple of two or more numbers contains each of them
a number of times exactly; thus, 24 is a common multiple of 3 and 4.
The least common multiple is the least number that will do this;
thus, 12 is the least common multiple of 3 and 4.

MULTIPLEX
Mul"ti*plex, a. Etym: [L. multiplex, -plicis. See Multiply.]

Defn: Manifold; multiple.

MULTIPLIABLE
Mul"ti*pli`a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. multipliable.]

Defn: Capable of being multiplied.
 -- Mul"ti*pli`a*ble*ness, n.

MULTIPLICABLE
Mul"ti*pli*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. multiplicabilis.]

Defn: Capable of being multiplied; multipliable.

MULTIPLICAND
Mul"ti*pli*cand`, n. Etym: [L. multiplicandus to be multiplied: cf.
F. multiplicande.] (Math.)

Defn: The number which is to be multiplied by another number called
the multiplier. See Note under Multiplication.

MULTIPLICATE
Mul"ti*pli*cate, a. Etym: [L. multiplicatus, p.p. of multiplicare.
See Multiply.]

Defn: Consisting of many, or of more than one; multiple; multifold.
Multiplicate flower (Bot.), a flower that is double, or has an
unusual number of petals in consequence of the abnormal
multiplication of the parts of the floral whorls.

MULTIPLICATION
Mul`ti*pli*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. multiplicatio: cf. F.
multiplication. See Multiply.]

1. The act or process of multiplying, or of increasing in number; the
state of being multiplied; as, the multiplication of the human
species by natural generation.
The increase and multiplication of the world. Thackeray.

2. (Math.)

Defn: The process of repeating, or adding to itself, any given number
or quantity a certain number of times; commonly, the process of
ascertaining by a briefer computation the result of such repeated
additions; also, the rule by which the operation is performed; -- the
reverse of division.

Note: The word multiplication is sometimes used in mathematics,
particularly in multiple algebra, to denote any distributive
operation expressed by one symbol upon any quantity or any thing
expressed by another symbol. Corresponding extensions of meaning are
given to the words multiply, multiplier, multiplicand, and product.
Thus, since f(x + y) = fx + fy (see under Distributive), where f(x +
y), fx, and fy indicate the results of any distributive operation
represented by the symbol f upon x + y, x, and y, severally, then
because of many very useful analogies f(x + y) is called the product
of f and x + y, and the operation indicated by f is called
multiplication. Cf. Facient, n., 2.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: An increase above the normal number of parts, especially of
petals; augmentation.

4. The art of increasing gold or silver by magic, -- attributed
formerly to the alchemists. [Obs.] Chaucer. Multiplication table, a
table giving the product of a set of numbers multiplied in some
regular way; commonly, a table giving the products of the first ten
or twelve numbers multiplied successively by 1, 2, 3, etc., up to 10
or 12.

MULTIPLICATIVE
Mul"ti*pli*ca*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. multiplicatif.]

Defn: Tending to multiply; having the power to multiply, or incease
numbers.

MULTIPLICATIVELY
Mul"ti*pli*ca*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to multiply.

MULTIPLICATOR
Mul"ti*pli*ca`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. multiplicateur. Cf.
Multiplier.]

Defn: The number by which another number is multiplied; a multiplier.

MULTIPLICIOUS
Mul`ti*pli"cious, a. Etym: [See Multiplex.]

Defn: Manifold. [Obs.]

MULTIPLICITY
Mul`ti*plic"ity, n. Etym: [Cf. F. multiplicité.]

Defn: The quality of being multiple, manifold, or various; a state of
being many; a multitude; as, a multiplicity of thoughts or objects.
"A multiplicity of goods." South.

MULTIPLIER
Mul"ti*pli`er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. multiplier. Cf. Multiplicator.]

1. One who, or that which, multiplies or increases number.

2. (Math.)

Defn: The number by which another number is multiplied. See the Note
under Multiplication.

3. (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for multiplying or increasing by repetition or
accumulation the intensity of a force or action, as heat or
electricity. It is particularly used to render such a force or action
appreciable or measurable when feeble. See Thermomultiplier.

MULTIPLY
Mul"ti*ply, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Multiplied; p. pr. & vb. n.
Multiplying.] Etym: [F. multiplier, L. multiplicare, fr. multiplex
manifold. See Multitude, Complex.]

1. To increase in number; to make more numerous; to add quantity to.
Impunity will multiply motives to disobedience. Ames.

2. (Math.)

Defn: To add (any given number or quantity) to itself a certain
number of times; to find the product of by multiplication; thus 7
multiplied by 8 produces the number 56; to multiply two numbers. See
the Note under Multiplication.

3. To increase (the amount of gold or silver) by the arts of alchemy.
[Obs.] Multiplying gear (Mach.), gear for increasing speed.
 -- Multiplying lens. (Opt.) See under Lens.

MULTIPLY
Mul"ti*ply, v. i.

1. To become greater in number; to become numerous.
When men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters
were born unto them. Gen. vi. 1.

2. To increase in extent and influence; to spread.
The word of God grew and multiplied. Acts xii. 24.

3. To increase amount of gold or silver by the arts of alchemy.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

MULTIPOLAR
Mul`ti*po"lar, a. Etym: [Multi- + polar.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having many poles; -- applied especially to those ganglionic
nerve cells which have several radiating processes.

MULTIPOTENT
Mul*tip"o*tent, a. Etym: [L. multipotens; multus much + potens
powerful. See Potent.]

Defn: Having manifold power, or power to do many things. "Jove
multipotent." Shak.

MULTIPRESENCE
Mul`ti*pres"ence, n.

Defn: The state or power of being multipresent.
The multipresence of Christ's body. Bp. Hall.

MULTIPRESENT
Mul`ti*pres"ent, a. Etym: [Multi- + present, a.]

Defn: Being, or having the power to be, present in two or more places
at once.

MULTIRADIATE
Mul`ti*ra"di*ate, a. Etym: [Multi- + radiate.]

Defn: Having many rays.

MULTIRAMIFIED
Mul`ti*ram"i*fied, a. Etym: [Multi- + p.p. of ramify.]

Defn: Divided into many branches.

MULTIRAMOSE
Mul`ti*ra*mose", a. Etym: [Multi- + ramose.]

Defn: Having many branches.

MULTISCIOUS
Mul*tis"cious, a. Etym: [L. multiscius; multus much + scius knowing,
fr. scire to know.]

Defn: Having much or varied knowledge. [Obs.]

MULTISECT
Mul"ti*sect, a. Etym: [Multi- + L. sectus, p.p. of secare to cut.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Divided into many similar segments; -- said of an insect or
myriapod.

MULTISEPTATE
Mul`ti*sep"tate, a. Etym: [Multi- + septate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Divided into many chambers by partitions, as the pith of the
pokeweed.

MULTISERIAL
Mul`ti*se"ri*al, a. Etym: [Multi- + serial.] (Bot.)

Defn: Arranged in many rows, or series, as the scales of a pine cone,
or the leaves of the houseleek.

MULTISILIQUOUS
Mul`ti*sil"i*quous, a. Etym: [Multi- + siliquious.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having many pods or seed vessels.

MULTISONOUS
Mul*tis"o*nous, a. Etym: [L. multisonus; multus much, many + sonus
sound.]

Defn: Having many sounds, or sounding much.

MULTISPIRAL
Mul`ti*spi"ral, a. Etym: [Multi- + spiral.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having numerous spiral coils round a center or nucleus; -- said
of the opercula of certain shells.

MULTISTRIATE
Mul`ti*stri"ate, a. Etym: [Multi- + striate.]

Defn: Having many streaks.

MULTISULCATE
Mul`ti*sul"cate, a. Etym: [Multi- + sulcate.]

Defn: Having many furrows.

MULTISYLLABLE
Mul"ti*syl`la*ble, n. Etym: [Multi- + syllable.]

Defn: A word of many syllables; a polysyllable. [R.] --
Mul`ti*syl*lab"ic, a.

MULTITITULAR
Mul`ti*tit"u*lar, a. Etym: [Multi- + titular.]

Defn: Having many titles.

MULTITUBULAR
Mul`ti*tu"bu*lar, a. Etym: [Multi- + tubular.]

Defn: Having many tubes; as, a multitubular boiler.

MULTITUDE
Mul"ti*tude, n. Etym: [F. multitude, L. multitudo, multitudinis, fr.
multus much, many; of unknown origin.]

1. A great number of persons collected together; a numerous
collection of persons; a crowd; an assembly.
But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them.
Matt. ix. 36.

2. A great number of persons or things, regarded collectively; as,
the book will be read by a multitude of people; the multitude of
stars; a multitude of cares.
It is a fault in a multitude of preachers, that they uttery neglect
method in their harangues. I. Watts.
A multitude of flowers As countless as the stars on high. Longfellow.

3. The state of being many; numerousness.
They came as grasshoppers for multitude. Judg. vi. 5.
The multitude, the populace; the mass of men.

Syn.
 -- Throng; crowd; assembly; assemblage; commonalty; swarm; populace;
vulgar. See Throng.

MULTITUDINARY
Mul`ti*tu"di*na*ry, a.

Defn: Multitudinous.

MULTITUDINOUS
Mul`ti*tu"di*nous, a.

1. Consisting of a multitude; manifold in number or condition; as,
multitudinous waves. "The multitudinous seas." Shak.
A renewed jingling of multitudinous chains. G. Kennan.

2. Of or pertaining to a multitude. "The multitudinous tongue." Shak.
 -- Mul`ti*tu"di*nous*ly, adv.
 -- Mul`ti*tu"di*nous*ness, n.

MULTIVAGANT; MULTIVAGOUS
Mul*tiv"a*gant, Mul*tiv"a*gous, a. Etym: [L. multivagus; multus much
+ vagus wandering; cf. vagans, p.pr. of vagari. See Vagary.]

Defn: Wandering much. [Obs.]

MULTIVALENCE
Mul*tiv"a*lence, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Quality, state, or degree, of a multivalent element, atom, or
radical.

MULTIVALENT
Mul*tiv"a*lent, a. Etym: [Multi- + L. valens, p. pr. See Valence.]
(Chem.)
(a) Having a valence greater than one, as silicon.
(b) Having more than one degree of valence, as sulphur.

MULTIVALVE
Mul"ti*valve, n. Etym: [Cf. F. multivalve.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any mollusk which has a shell composed of more than two pieces.

MULTIVALVE; MULTIVALVULAR
Mul"ti*valve, Mul`ti*val"vu*lar, a. Etym: [Multi- + valve, valvular:
cf. F. multivalve.]

1. Having many valves.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Many-valved; having more than two valves; -- said of certain
shells, as the chitons.

MULTIVERSANT
Mul*tiv"er*sant, a. Etym: [Multi- + L. versans, p. pr. See Versant.]

Defn: Turning into many shapes; assuming many forms; protean.

MULTIVIOUS
Mul*tiv"i*ous, a. & adv. Etym: [L. multivius; multus many + via way.]

Defn: Having many ways or roads; by many ways. [Obs.]

MULTIVOCAL
Mul*tiv"o*cal, a. Etym: [Multi- + vocal.]

Defn: Signifying many different things; of manifold meaning;
equivocal. "An ambiguous multivocal word." Coleridge.
 -- n.

Defn: A multivocal word. [R.] Fitzed. Hall.

MULTOCULAR
Mul*toc"u*lar, a. Etym: [Multi- + L. oculus eye.]

Defn: Having many eyes, or more than two.

MULTUM
Mul"tum, n.

Defn: An extract of quassia licorice, fraudulently used by brewers in
order to economize malt and hops. Craig. Hard multum, a preparation
made from Cocculus Indicus, etc., used to impart an intoxicating
quality to beer.

MULTUNGULATE
Mul*tun"gu*late, a. Etym: [Multi- + ungulate.]

Defn: Having many hoofs.

MULTURE
Mul"ture, n. Etym: [OF. multure, moulture, F. mouture, fr. L.
molitura a grinding, molere to grind. See Mill the machine.]

1. (Scots Law)

Defn: The toll for grinding grain. Erskine.

2. A grist or grinding; the grain ground.

MUM
Mum, a. Etym: [Of imitative origin. Cf. Mumble.]

Defn: Silent; not speaking. Thackeray.
The citizens are mum, and speak not a word. Shak.

MUM
Mum, interj.

Defn: Be silent! Hush!
Mum, then, and no more. Shak.

MUM
Mum, n.

Defn: Silence. [R.] Hudibras.

MUM
Mum, n. Etym: [G. mummere, fr. Christian Mumme, who first brewed it
in 1492.]

Defn: A sort of strong beer, originally made in Brunswick, Germany.
Addison.
The clamorous crowd is hushed with mugs of mum. Pope.

MUMBLE
Mum"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mumbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Mumbling.]
Etym: [OE. momelen; cf. D. mompelen, mommelen, G. mummelen, Sw.
mumla, Dan. mumle. Cf. Mum, a., Mumm, Mump, v.]

1. To speak with the lips partly closed, so as to render the sounds
inarticulate and imperfect; to utter words in a grumbling indistinct
manner, indicating discontent or displeasure; to mutter.
Peace, you mumbling fool. Shak.
A wrinkled hag, with age grown double, Picking dry sticks, and
mumbling to herself. Otway.

2. To chew something gently with closed lips.

MUMBLE
Mum"ble, v. t.

1. To utter with a low, inarticulate voice. Bp. Hall.

2. To chew or bite gently, as one without teeth.
Gums unarmed, to mumble meat in vain. Dryden.

3. To suppress, or utter imperfectly.

MUMBLENEWS
Mum"ble*news`, n.

Defn: A talebearer. [Obs.]

MUMBLER
Mum"bler, n.

Defn: One who mumbles.

MUMBLING
Mum"bling, a.

Defn: Low; indistinct; inarticulate.
 -- Mum"bling*ly, adv.

MUMBO JUMBO
Mum"bo Jum`bo.

Defn: An object of superstitious homage and fear. Carlyle.
The miserable Mumbo Jumbo they paraded. Dickens.

MUM-CHANCE
Mum"-chance`, n.

1. A game of hazard played with cards in silence. [Obs. or Prov.
Eng.] Decker.

2. A silent, stupid person. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

MUM-CHANCE
Mum"-chance`, a.

Defn: Silent and idle. [Colloq.]
Boys can't sit mum-chance always. J. H. Ewing.

MUMM
Mumm, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mummed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mumming.] Etym: [D.
mimmen to mask, mom a mask; akin to G. mumme disguise; prob. of
imitative origin, and akin to E. mum, mumble, in allusion to the
indistinctness of speech occasioned by talking from behind a mask.
Cf. Mumble, Mummery.]

Defn: To sport or make diversion in a mask or disguise; to mask.
With mumming and with masking all around. Spenser.

MUMMER
Mumm"er, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. mommeur. See Mumm, and cf. Momier.]

Defn: One who mumms, or makes diversion in disguise; a masker; a
buffon.
Jugglers and dancers, antics, mummers. Milton.

MUMMERY
Mum"mer*y, n.; pl. Mummeries. Etym: [F. momerie, of Dutch or German
origin. See Mumm.]

1. Masking; frolic in disguise; buffoonery.
The mummery of foreign strollers. Fenton.

2. Farcical show; hypocritical disguise and parade or ceremonies.
Bacon.

MUMMICHOG
Mum"mi*chog, n. Etym: [Amer. Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small American cyprinodont fishes
of the genus Fundulus, and of allied genera; the killifishes; --
called also minnow. [Written also mummychog, mummachog.]

MUMMIFICATION
Mum`mi*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [See Mummify.]

Defn: The act of making a mummy.

MUMMIFIED
Mum"mi*fied, a.

Defn: Converted into a mummy or a mummylike substance; having the
appearance of a mummy; withered.

MUMMIFORM
Mum"mi*form, a. Etym: [Mummy + -form.]

Defn: Having some resemblance to a mummy; -- in zoölogy, said of the
pupæ of certain insects.

MUMMIFY
Mum"mi*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mummified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mummifying.] Etym: [Mummy + -fy: cf. F. momifier.]

Defn: To embalm and dry as a mummy; to make into, or like, a mummy.
Hall (1646).

MUMMY
Mum"my, n.; pl. Mummies. Etym: [F. momie; cf. Sp. & Pg. momia, It.
mummia; all fr. Per. m, fr. m wax.]

1. A dead body embalmed and dried after the manner of the ancient
Egyptians; also, a body preserved, by any means, in a dry state, from
the process of putrefaction. Bacon.

2. Dried flesh of a mummy. [Obs.] Sir. J. Hill.

3. A gummy liquor that exudes from embalmed flesh when heated; --
formerly supposed to have magical and medicinal properties. [Obs.]
Shak. Sir T. Herbert.

4. A brown color obtained from bitumen. See Mummy brown (below).

5. (Gardening)

Defn: A sort of wax used in grafting, etc.

6. One whose affections and energies are withered. Mummy brown, a
brown color, nearly intermediate in tint between burnt umber and raw
umber. A pigment of this color is prepared from bitumen, etc.,
obtained from Egyptian tombs.
 -- Mummy wheat (Bot.), wheat found in the ancient mummy cases of
Egypt. No botanist now believes that genuine mummy wheat has been
made to germinate in modern times.
 -- To beat to a mummy, to beat to a senseless mass; to beat soundly.

MUMMY
Mum"my, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mummied; p. pr. & vb. n. Mummying.]

Defn: To embalm; to mummify.

MUMMYCHOG
Mum"my*chog, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mummichog.

MUMP
Mump, v. i. Etym: [Akin to mumble; cf. D. mompen to cheat; perh.
orig., to whine like a beggar, D. mompelen to mumble. See Mumble,
Mum, and cf. Mumps.]

1. To move the lips with the mouth closed; to mumble, as in
sulkiness.
He mumps, and lovers, and hangs the lip. Taylor, 1630.

2. To talk imperfectly, brokenly, or feebly; to chatter
unintelligibly.

3. To cheat; to deceive; to play the beggar.
And then when mumping with a sore leg, ... canting and whining.
Burke.

4. To be sullen or sulky. [Prov. Eng.]

MUMP
Mump, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mumped; p. pr. & vb. n. Mumping.]

1. To utter imperfectly, brokenly, or feebly.
Old men who mump their passion. Goldsmith.

2. To work over with the mouth; to mumble; as, to mump food.

3. To deprive of (something) by cheating; to impose upon.

MUMPER
Mump"er, n.

Defn: A beggar; a begging impostor.
Deceived by the tales of a Lincoln's Inn mumper. Macaulay.

MUMPISH
Mump"ish, a.

Defn: Sullen, sulky.
 -- Mump"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Mump"ish*ness, n.

MUMPS
Mumps, n. Etym: [Prov. E. mump to be sulky. Cf. Mump, Mumble, and
Mum.]

1. pl.

Defn: Sullenness; silent displeasure; the sulks. Skinner.

2. Etym: [Prob. so called from the patient's appearance.] (Med.)

Defn: A specific infectious febrile disorder characterized by a
nonsuppurative inflammation of the parotid glands; epidemic or
infectious parotitis.

MUN
Mun, n. Etym: [See Mouth.]

Defn: The mouth. [Obs.]
One a penny, two a penny, hot cross buns, Butter them and sugar them
and put them in your muns. Old Rhyme. Halliwell.

MUNCH
Munch, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Munched; p. pr. & vb. n. Munching.]
Etym: [Prob. akin to mumble: cf. also F. manger to eat (cf. Mange),
and mâcher to cher (cf. Masticate). See Mumble.]

Defn: To chew with a grinding, crunching sound, as a beast chews
provender; to chew deliberately or in large mouthfuls. [Formerly
written also maunch and mounch.]
I could munch your good dry oats. Shak.

MUNCHAUSENISM
Mun*chau"sen*ism, n. Etym: [So called in allusion to Baron
Munchausen's extravagant tales of travel.]

Defn: An extravagant fiction embodying an account of some marvelous
exploit or adventure.

MUNCHER
Munch"er, n.

Defn: One who munches.

MUND
Mund, n.

Defn: See Mun.

MUNDANE
Mun"dane, a. Etym: [L. mundanus, fr. mundus the world, an implement,
toilet adornments, or dress; cf. mundus, a., clean, neat, Skr. mansds
to adorn, dress, mansdsa adornment. Cf. Monde, Mound in heraldry.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the world; worldly; earthly; terrestrial;
as, the mundane sphere.
 -- Mun"dane*ly, adv.
The defilement of mundane passions. I. Taylor.

MUNDANITY
Mun*dan"i*ty, n.

Defn: Worldliness. [Obs.]

MUNDATION
Mun*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. mundatio, fr. mundare to make clean.]

Defn: The act of cleansing. [Obs.]

MUNDATORY
Mun"da*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. mundatorius.]

Defn: Cleansing; having power to cleanse. [Obs.]

MUNDIC
Mun"dic, n.

Defn: Iron pyrites, or arsenical pyrites; -- so called by the Cornish
miners.

MUNDIFICANT
Mun*dif"i*cant, a. Etym: [L. mundificans, p.pr. of mundificare to
make clean, fr. mundus clean + -ficare (in comp.) to make. See -fy.]

Defn: Serving to cleanse and heal.
 -- n.

Defn: A mundificant ointment or plaster.

MUNDIFICATION
Mun`di*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act or operation of cleansing.

MUNDIFICATIVE
Mun*dif"i*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Cleansing.
 -- n.

Defn: A detergent medicine or preparation.

MUNDIFY
Mun"di*fy, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. mondifier, L. mundificare. See
Mundificant.]

Defn: To cleanse. [Obs.]

MUNDIL
Mun"dil, n.

Defn: A turban ornamented with an imitation of gold or silver
embroidery.

MUNDIVAGANT
Mun*div"a*gant, a. Etym: [L. mundus the world + vagans wandering,
p.pr. of vagari. See Vagary.]

Defn: Wandering over the world. [R.]

MUNDUNGUS
Mun*dun"gus, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. mondongo paunch, tripe, black
pudding.]

Defn: A stinking tobacco.

MUNERARY
Mu"ner*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. munerarius, from munus a gift.]

Defn: Having the nature of a gift. [Obs.]

MUNERATE
Mu"ner*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. muneratus, p.p. of munerare to give,
bestow, fr. munus a gift.]

Defn: To remunerate.

MUNERATION
Mu`ner*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. muneratio.]

Defn: Remuneration. [Obs.]

MUNG
Mung, n. Etym: [Hind. m.] (Bot.)

Defn: Green gram, a kind of pulse (Phaseolus Mungo), grown for food
in British India. Balfour (Cyc. of India).

MUNGA
Mun"ga, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Bonnet monkey, under Bonnet.

MUNGCORN
Mung"corn`, n.

Defn: Same as Mangcorn.

MUNGO
Mun"go, n.

Defn: A fibrous material obtained by deviling rags or the remnants of
woolen goods.

Note: Mungo properly signifies the disintegrated rags of woolen
cloth, as distinguished from those of worsted, which form shoddy. The
distinction is very commonly disregarded. Beck (Draper's Dict. ).

MUNGOOSE; MUNGOOS
Mun"goose, Mun"goos, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mongoose.

MUNGREL
Mun"grel, n. & a.

Defn: See Mongrel.

MUNICIPAL
Mu*nic"i*pal, a. Etym: [L. municipalis, fr. municipium a town,
particularly in Italy, which possessed the right of Roman
citizenship, but was governed by its own laws, a free town, fr.
municeps an inhabitant of a free town, a free citizen; munia official
duties, functions + capere to take: cf. F. municipal. Cf. Immunity,
and Capacoius.]

1. Of or pertaining to a city or a corporation having the right of
administering local government; as, municipal rights; municipal
officers.

2. Of or pertaining to a state, kingdom, or nation.
Municipal law is properly defined to be a rule of civil conduct
prescribed by the supreme power in a state. Blackstone.

MUNICIPALISM
Mu*nic"i*pal*ism, n.

Defn: Municipal condition.

MUNICIPALITY
Mu*nic`i*pal"i*ty, n.; pl. Municipalities. Etym: [Cf. F.
municipalité.]

Defn: A municipal district; a borough, city, or incorporated town or
village.

MUNICIPALIZE
Mu*nic"i*pal*ize, v. t. [Municipal + -ize.]

Defn: To bring under municipal oversight or control; as, a
municipalized industry.

London people are now determined to centralize and to municipalize
such services.
The Century.

MUNICIPALLY
Mu*nic"i*pal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a municipal relation or condition.

MUNIFIC
Mu*nif"ic, a. Etym: [See Munificent.]

Defn: Munificent; liberal. [Obs. or R.]

MUNIFICATE
Mu*nif"i*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. munificatus, p.p. of munificare to
present with a thing, fr. munificus. See Munificent.]

Defn: To enrich. [Obs.]

MUNIFICENCE
Mu*nif"i*cence, n. Etym: [Cf. L. munire to fortify.]

Defn: Means of defense; fortification. [Obs.] Spenser.

MUNIFICENCE
Mu*nif"i*cence, n. Etym: [L. munificentia: cf. F. munificence.]

Defn: The quality or state of being munificent; a giving or bestowing
with extraordinary liberality; generous bounty; lavish generosity.
The virtues of liberality and munificence. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Benevolence; beneficence; liberality; generosity; bounty;
bounteousness. See Benevolence.

MUNIFICENT
Mu*nif"i*cent, a. Etym: [L. munificus; munus service, gift + -ficare
(in comp.) to make. Cf. Immunity, -fy.]

Defn: Very liberal in giving or bestowing; lavish; as, a munificent
benefactor.
 -- Mu*nif"i*cent*ly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Bounteous; bountiful; liberal; generous.

MUNIFY
Mu"ni*fy, v. t. & i. Etym: [See Munificate.]

Defn: To prepare for defense; to fortify. [Obs.]

MUNIMENT
Mu"ni*ment, n. Etym: [L. munimentum, fr. munire to fortify. See
Munition.]

1. The act of supporting or defending. [Obs.]

2. That which supports or defends; stronghold; place or means of
defense; munition; assistance. "Other muniments and petty helps."
Shak.

3. (Law)

Defn: A record; the evidences or writings whereby a man is enabled to
defend the title to his estate; title deeds and papers. Blount.
Muniment house or room, that room in a cathedral, castle, or other
public building, which is used for keeping the records, charters,
seals, deeds, and the like. Gwilt.

MUNITE
Mu*nite", v. t. Etym: [L. munitus, p.p. of munire to wall, fortify.]

Defn: To fortify; to strengthen. [Obs.]

MUNITION
Mu*ni"tion, n. Etym: [F., munition of war, L. munitio a fortifying,
fortification, fr. munire to fortify, defend with a wall; cf. moenia
walls, murus (for moirus) a wall, and Skr. mi to fix, make firm. Cf.
Ammunition.]

1. Fortification; stronghold. [Obs.]
His place of defense shall be the munitions of rocks. Is. xxxiii. 16.

2. Whatever materials are used in war for drfense or for annoying an
enemy; ammunition; also, stores and provisions; military stores of
all kinds.
The bodies of men, munition, and money, may justly be called the
sinews of war. Sir W. Raleigh.

MUNITY
Mu"ni*ty, n. Etym: [See Immunity.]

Defn: Freedom; security; immunity. [Obs.] W. Montagu.

MUNJEET
Mun*jeet", n. Etym: [Hind. majitsh a drug used for dyeing red.]

Defn: See Indian madder, under Madder.

MUNJISTIN
Mun"jis*tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An orangered coloring substance resembling alizarin, found in
the root of an East Indian species of madder (Rubia munjista).

MUNNION
Mun"nion, n.

Defn: See Mullion.

MUNTIN; MUNTING
Mun"tin, Mun"ting, n. Etym: [CF. Montant.] (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Mullion; -- especially used in joiner's work.

MUNTJAC
Munt"jac, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small Asiatic deer of the genus
Cervulus, esp. C. muntjac, which occurs both in India and on the East
Indian Islands. [Written also muntjak.]

MUNTZ METAL
Muntz" met`al.

Defn: See under Metal.

MURAENA
Mu*ræ"na, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of large eels of the family Mirænidæ. They differ from
the common eel in lacking pectoral fins and in having the dorsal and
anal fins continuous. The murry (Muræna Helenæ) of Southern Europe
was the muræna of the Romans. It is highly valued as a food fish.

MURAENOID; MURENOID
Mu*ræ"noid, Mu*re"noid, a. Etym: [NL. Muræna, the generic name + -
oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the genus Muræna, or family Murænidæ.

MURAGE
Mu"rage, n. Etym: [F., fr. murer to wall, fr. mur wall, L. murus. See
Mure a wall.]

Defn: A tax or toll paid for building or repairing the walls of a
fortified town.

MURAL
Mu"ral, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. muralis, fr. murus wall. See Mure a
wall.]

1. Of or pertaining to a wall; being on, or in, a wall; growing on,
or against, a wall; as, a mural quadrant. "Mural breach." Milton.
"Mural fruit." Evelyn.

2. Resembling a wall; perpendicular or steep; as, a mural precipice.
Mural circle (Astron.), a graduated circle, in the plane of the
meridian, attached permanently to a perpendicular wall; -- used for
measuring arcs of the meridian. See Circle, n., 3.
 -- Mural crown (Rom. Antiq.), a golden crown, or circle of gold
indented so as to resemble a battlement, bestowed on him who first
mounted the wall of a besieged place, and there lodged a standard.

MURDER
Mur"der, n. Etym: [OE. morder, morther, AS. moredhor, fr. moredh
murder; akin to D. moord, OS. moredh, G., Dan., & Sw. mord, Icel.
moredh, Goth. maúrþr, OSlav. mreti to die, Lith. mirti, W. marw dead,
L. mors, mortis, death, mori, moriri, to die, Gr. broto`s (for
mroto`s) mortal, 'a`mbrotos immortal, Skr. mrs to die, mrsta death.
*105. Cf. Amaranth, Ambrosia, Mortal.]

Defn: The offense of killing a human being with malice prepense or
aforethought, express or implied; intentional and unlawful homicide.
"Mordre will out." Chaucer.
The killing of their children had, in the account of God, the guilt
of murder, as the offering them to idols had the guilt of idolatry.
Locke.
Slaughter grows murder when it goes too far. Dryden.

Note: Murder in the second degree, in most jurisdictions, is a
malicious homicide committed without a specific intention to take
life. Wharton.

MURDER
Mur"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Murdered; p. pr. & vb. n. Murdering.]
Etym: [OE. mortheren, murtheren, AS. myr; akin to OHG. murdiren,
Goth. maúr. See Murder, n.]

1. To kill with premediated malice; to kill (a human being)
willfully, deliberately, and unlawfully. See Murder, n.

2. To destroy; to put an end to.
[Canst thou] murder thy breath in middle of a word Shak.

3. To mutilate, spoil, or deform, as if with malice or cruelty; to
mangle; as, to murder the king's English.

Syn.
 -- To kill; assassinate; slay. See Kill.

MURDERER
Mur"der*er, n.

1. One guilty of murder; a person who, in possession of his reason,
unlawfully kills a human being with premeditated malice.

2. A small cannon, formerly used for clearing a ship's decks of
boarders; -- called also murdering piece. [Obs.]

MURDERESS
Mur"der*ess, n.

Defn: A woman who commits murder.

MURDERMENT
Mur"der*ment, n.

Defn: Murder. [Obs.] Farfax.

MURDEROUS
Mur"der*ous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to murder; characterized by, or causing,
murder or bloodshed; having the purpose or quality of murder; bloody;
sanguinary; as, the murderous king; murderous rapine; murderous
intent; a murderous assault. "Murderous coward." Shak.
 -- Mur"der*ous*ly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Bloody; sanguinary; bloodguilty; bloodthirsty; fell; savage;
cruel.

MURDRESS
Mur"dress, n.

Defn: A battlement in ancient fortifications with interstices for
firing through.

MURE
Mure, n. Etym: [L. murus; or F. mur, fr. L. murus. Cf. Munition.]

Defn: A wall. [Obs.] Shak.

MURE
Mure, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mured.] Etym: [F. murer, L. murare. See
Mure, n.]

Defn: To inclose in walls; to wall; to immure; to shut up. Spenser.
The five kings are mured in a cave. John. x. (Heading).

MURENGER
Mu"ren*ger, n.

Defn: One who had charge of the wall of a town, or its repairs.

MUREX
Mu"rex, n.; pl. Murices. Etym: [L., the purple fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine gastropods, having rough, and frequently
spinose, shells, which are often highly colored inside; the rock
shells. They abound in tropical seas.

MUREXAN
Mu*rex"an, n. Etym: [From Murexide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A complex nitrogenous substance obtained from murexide,
alloxantin, and other ureids, as a white, or yellowish, crystalline
which turns red on exposure to the air; -- called also uramil,
dialuramide, and formerly purpuric acid.

MUREXIDE
Mu*rex"ide, n. Etym: [L. murex the purple fish, purple.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline nitrogenous substance having a splendid
dichroism, being green by reflected light and garnet-red by
transmitted light. It was formerly used in dyeing calico, and was
obtained in a large quantities from guano. Formerly called also
ammonium purpurate.

MUREXOIN
Mu*rex"o*ïn, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A complex nitrogenous compound obtained as a scarlet
crystalline substance, and regarded as related to murexide.

MURIATE
Mu"ri*ate, n. Etym: [See Muriatic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of muriatic hydrochloric acid; a chloride; as, muriate
of ammonia.

Note: This term, as also the word muriatic, was formerly applied to
the chlorides before their true composition was understood, and while
they were erroneously supposed to be compounds of an acid with an
oxide. Muriate and muriatic are still occasionally used as commercial
terms, but are obsolete in scientific language.

MURIATED
Mu"ri*a`ted, a.

1. Put in brine. Evelyn.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined or impregnated with muriatic or hydrochloric acid.

3. (Photog.)

Defn: Prepared with chloride of silver through the agency of common
salt.

MURIATIC
Mu`ri*at"ic, a. Etym: [L. muriaticus pickled, from muria brine: cf.
F. muriatique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sea salt, or from
chlorine, one of the constituents of sea salt; hydrochloric. Muriatic
acid, hydrochloric acid, HCl; -- formerly called also marine acid,
and spirit of salt. See hydrochloric, and the Note under Muriate.

MURIATIFEROUS
Mu`ri*a*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Muriatic + -ferous.] (Old Chem.)

Defn: Producing muriatic substances or salt. [Obs.]

MURICATE; MURICATED
Mu"ri*cate, Mu"ri*ca`ted, a. Etym: [L. muricatus, fr. murex a pointed
rock or stone.]

Defn: Formed with sharp points; full of sharp points or of pickles;
covered, or roughened, as a surface, with sharp points or
excrescences.

MURICOID
Mu"ri*coid, a. Etym: [Murex + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, the genus Murex, or family Muricidæ.

MURICULATE
Mu*ric"u*late, a.

Defn: Minutely muricate.

MURIDE
Mu"ride, n. Etym: [L. muria brine.] (Old Chem.)

Defn: Bromine; -- formerly so called from its being obtained from sea
water.

MURIFORM
Mu"ri*form, a. Etym: [L. murus a wall + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling courses of bricks or stones in squareness and
regular arrangement; as, a muriform variety of cellular tissue.

MURINE
Mu"rine, a. Etym: [L. murinus, from mus, muris, mouse: cf. F. murin.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to a family of rodents (Muridæ), of which the mouse
is the type.

MURINE
Mu"rine, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a tribe of rodents, of which the mouse is the type.

MURINGER
Mu"rin*ger, n.

Defn: See Murenger. Jacob.

MURK
Murk, a. Etym: [See Murky.]

Defn: Dark; murky.
He can not see through the mantle murk. J. R. Drake.

MURK
Murk, n.

Defn: Darkness; mirk. [Archaic] Shak.

MURK
Murk, n.

Defn: The refuse of fruit, after the juice has been expressed; marc.

MURKILY
Murk"i*ly, adv.

Defn: Darkly; gloomily.

MURKINESS
Murk"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being murky.

MURKY
Murk"y, a. [Compar. Murkier; superl. Murkiest.] Etym: [OE. mirke,
merke, AS. myrce, mirce; akin to Icel. myrkr, Dan. & Sw. mörk.]

Defn: Dark; obscure; gloomy. "The murkiest den." Shak.
A murky deep lowering o'er our heads. Addison.

MURLINS
Mur"lins, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A seaweed. See Baddrelocks.

MURMUR
Mur"mur, n. Etym: [F. murmure: cf. L. murmur. CF. Murmur, v. i.]

1. A low, confused, and indistinct sound, like that of running water.

2. A complaint half suppressed, or uttered in a low, muttering voice.
Chaucer.
Some discontents there are, some idle murmurs. Dryden.

MURMUR
Mur"mur, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Murmured; p. pr. & vb. n. Murmuring.]
Etym: [F. murmurer, L. murmurare, murmurari, fr. murmur murmur; cf.
Gr.marmara a rustling sound; prob. of imitative origin.]

1. To make a low continued noise, like the hum of bees, a stream of
water, distant waves, or the wind in a forest.
They murmured as doth a swarm of bees. Chaucer.

2. To utter complaints in a low, half-articulated voice; to feel or
express dissatisfaction or discontent; to grumble; -- often with at
or against. "His disciples murmured at it." John vi. 61.
And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against
Aaron. Num. xiv. 2.
Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured. 1 Cor. x. 10.

MURMUR
Mur"mur, v. t.

Defn: To utter or give forth in low or indistinct words or sounds;
as, to murmur tales. Shak.
The people murmured such things concerning him. John vii. 32.

MURMURATION
Mur`mur*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. murmuratio.]

Defn: The act of murmuring; a murmur. [Obs.] Skelton.

MURMURER
Mur"mur*er, n.

Defn: One who murmurs.

MURMURING
Mur"mur*ing, a. & n.

Defn: Uttering murmurs; making low sounds; complaining.
 -- Mur"mur*ing*ly, adv.

MURMUROUS
Mur"mur*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. L. murmuriosus, OF. murmuros.]

Defn: Attended with murmurs; exciting murmurs or complaint;
murmuring. [Archaic or Poetic]
The lime, a summer home of murmurous wings. Tennyson.

MURNIVAL
Mur"ni*val, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. F. mornifle a game at cards.]

Defn: In the game of gleek, four cards of the same value, as four
aces or four kings; hence, four of anything. [Obs.] [Written also
mournival.]

MURPHY
Mur"phy, n.

Defn: A potato. [Humorous] Thackeray.

MURR
Murr, n. Etym: [Prob. abbrev. from murrain.]

Defn: A catarrh. [Obs.] Gascoigne.

MURRAIN
Mur"rain, n. Etym: [OE. moreine, OF. morine, fr. OF. morir, murir,
8die, L. mori, moriri.] (Far.)

Defn: An infectious and fatal disease among cattle. Bacon. A murrain
on you, may you be afflicted with a pestilent disease. Shak.

MURRAIN
Mur"rain, a.

Defn: Having, or afflicted with, murrain.

MURRAYIN
Mur"ray*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside found in the flowers of a plant (Murraya exotica)
of South Asia, and extracted as a white amorphous slightly bitter
substance.

MURRE
Murre, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of sea birds of the genus Uria, or
Catarractes; a guillemot.

Note: The murres are allied to the auks, and are abundant on the
northern coasts of Europe and America. They often breed in large
communities on the projecting ledges of precipituous cliffs, laying
one or two large eggs on the bare rocks.

MURRELET
Murre"let, n. Etym: [Murre + -let.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of sea birds of the genera
Synthliboramphus and Brachyramphus, inhabiting the North Pacific.
They are closely related to the murres.

MURREY
Mur"rey, n. Etym: [OF. morée a dark red color, mor blackish brown,
fr. L. morum mulberry, blackberry, or fr. Maurus a Moor. Cf.
Mulberry, Moor, Morelle.]

Defn: A dark red color.
 -- a.

Defn: Of a dark red color. Bacon.

MURRHINE
Mur"rhine, a. Etym: [L. murrhinus, fr. murrha: cf. F. murrhin.]

Defn: Made of the stone or material called by the Romans murrha; --
applied to certain costly vases of great beauty and delicacy used by
the luxurious in Rome as wine cups; as, murrhine vases, cups,
vessels. Murrhine glass, glassware made in imitation of murrhine
vases and cups.

MURRION
Mur"ri*on, a. Etym: [See Murrain.]

Defn: Infected with or killed by murrain. [Obs.] Shak.

MURRION
Mur"ri*on, n.

Defn: A morion. See Morion.

MURRY
Mur"ry, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Muræna.

MURTH
Murth, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Plenty; abundance. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

MURTHER
Mur"ther, n. & v.

Defn: Murder, n. & v. [Obs. or Prov.] "The treason of the
murthering." Chaucer.

MURTHERER
Mur"ther*er, n.

Defn: A murderer. [Obs. or Prov.]

MURZA
Mur"za, n.

Defn: One of the hereditary nobility among the Tatars, esp. one of
the second class.

Note: This word must not be confounded with the Persian Mirza, though
perhaps of the same origin.

MUS
Mus, n.; pl. Mures. Etym: [L., a mouse.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small rodents, including the common mouse and rat.

MUSA
Mu"sa, n.; pl. Musæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Ar. mauz, mauza, banana.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of perennial, herbaceous, endogenous plants of great
size, including the banana (Musa sapientum), the plantain (M.
paradisiaca of Linnæus, but probably not a distinct species), the
Abyssinian (M. Ensete), the Philippine Island (M. textilis, which
yields Manila hemp), and about eighteen other species. See Illust. of
Banana and Plantain.

MUSACEOUS
Mu*sa"ceous, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the genus Musa.

MUSAL
Mus"al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Muses, or to Poetry. [R.]

MUSANG
Mu*sang", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small animal of Java (Paradoxirus fasciatus), allied to the
civets. It swallows, but does not digest, large quantities of ripe
coffee berries, thus serving to disseminate the coffee plant; hence
it is called also coffee rat.

MUSAR
Mu"sar, n.

Defn: An itinerant player on the musette, an instrument formerly
common in Europe.

MUSARD
Mu"sard, n. Etym: [F., fr. muser to loiter, trifle. See Muse, v. i.]

Defn: A dreamer; an absent-minded person. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

MUSCA
Mus"ca, n.; pl. Muscæ. Etym: [L., a fly.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of dipterous insects, including the common house fly,
and numerous allied species.

Note: Formerly, a large part of the Diptera were included under the
genus Musca.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A small constellation situated between the Southern Cross and
the Pole. Muscæ volitantes (. Etym: [L., flying flies.] (Med.) Specks
or filaments apparently seen moving or glinding about in the field of
vision. Their appearance is often a symptom of disease of the eye, or
of disorder of the nervous system.

MUSCADEL
Mus"ca*del`, n. Etym: [It. moscadello, moscatello, LL. muscatellum or
muscadellum (sc. vinum), fr. muscatellus nutmeglike, dim. of muscatus
smelling like musk, muscatum and muscata (sc. nux) nutmeg: cf. F.
muscadelle, fr. Italian. See Musk and cf. Moschatel, Muscardin,
Muscat, Nutmeg.]

Defn: See Muscatel, n.
Quaffed off the muscadel. Shak.

MUSCADINE
Mus"ca*dine, n. Etym: [See Muscadel.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several very different kinds of grapes, but in
America used chiefly for the scuppernong, or southern fox grape,
which is said to be the parent stock of the Catawba. See Grapevine.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A fragrant and delicious pear.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Muscardin. Northern muscadine (Bot.), a derivative of the
northern fox grape, and scarcely an improvement upon it.
 -- Royal muscadine (Bot.), a European grape of great value. Its
berries are large, round, and of a pale amber color. Called also
golden chasselas.

MUSCALES
Mus*ca"les, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. muscus moss.] (Bot.)

Defn: An old name for mosses in the widest sense, including the true
mosses and also hepaticæ and sphagna.

MUSCALLONGE
Mus"cal*longe, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Muskellunge.

MUSCARDIN
Mus"car*din, n. Etym: [F., fr. muscadin a musk-scented lozenge, fr.
muscade nutmeg, fr. L. muscus musk. See Muscadel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common European dormouse; -- so named from its odor.
[Written also muscadine.]

MUSCARDINE
Mus`car*dine", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A disease which is very destructive to silkworms, and which
sometimes extends to other insects. It is attended by the development
of a fungus (provisionally called Botrytis bassiana). Also, the
fungus itself.

MUSCARIFORM
Mus*car"i*form, a. Etym: [L. muscarium fly brush + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a brush.

MUSCARIN
Mus*ca"rin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A solid crystalline substance, C5H13NO2, found in the toadstool
(Agaricus muscarius), and in putrid fish. It is a typical ptomaine,
and a violent poison.

MUSCAT
Mus"cat, n. Etym: [F. See Muscadel.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several varieties of Old World grapes,
differing in color, size, etc., but all having a somewhat musky
flavor. The muscat of Alexandria is a large oval grape of a pale
amber color. [Written also muskat.]

MUSCATEL
Mus"ca*tel`, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, or derived from, a muscat
grapes or similar grapes; a muscatel grapes; muscatel wine, etc.

MUSCATEL
Mus"ca*tel`, n.

1. A common name for several varieties of rich sweet wine, made in
Italy, Spain, and France.

2. pl.

Defn: Finest raisins, dried on the vine; "sun raisins." [Variously
written moscatel, muscadel, etc.]

MUSCHELKALK
Musch"el*kalk`, n. Etym: [G., from muschel shell + kalk limestone.]
(Geol.)

Defn: A kind of shell limestone, whose strata form the middle one of
the three divisions of the Triassic formation in Germany. See Chart,
under Geology.

MUSCI
Mus"ci, n. pl. Etym: [L. muscus moss.] (Bot.)

Defn: An order or subclass of cryptogamous plants; the mosses. See
Moss, and Cryptogamia.

MUSCICAPINE
Mus*cic"a*pine, a. Etym: [L. musca a fly + capere to catch.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Muscicapidæ, a family of birds that
includes the true flycatchers.

MUSCID
Mus"cid, n.

Defn: Any fly of the genus Musca, or family Muscidæ.

MUSCIFORM
Mus"ci*form, a. Etym: [Musca + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the form or structure of flies of the genus Musca, or
family Muscidæ.

MUSCIFORM
Mus"ci*form, a. Etym: [Muscus + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the appearance or form of a moss.

MUSCLE
Mus"cle, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. musculus a muscle, a little mouse, dim.
of mus a mouse. See Mouse, and cf. sense 3 (below).]

1. (Anat.)
(a) An organ which, by its contraction, produces motion. See Illust.
of Muscles of the Human Body, in Appendix.
(b) The contractile tissue of which muscles are largely made up.

Note: Muscles are of two kinds, striated and nonstriated. The
striated muscles, which, in most of the higher animals, constitute
the principal part of the flesh, exclusive of the fat, are mostly
under the control of the will, or voluntary, and are made up of great
numbers of elongated fibres bound together into bundles and inclosed
in a sheath of connective tissue, the perimysium. Each fiber is
inclosed in a delicate membrane (the sarcolemma), is made up of
alternate segments of lighter and darker material which give it a
transversely striated appearance, and contains, scattered through its
substance, protoplasmic nuclei, the so-called muscle corpuscles. The
nonstriated muscles are involuntary. They constitute a large part of
the walls of the alimentary canal, blood vessels, uterus, and
bladder, and are found also in the iris, skin, etc. They are made up
of greatly elongated cells, usually grouped in bundles or sheets.

2. Muscular strength or development; as, to show one's muscle by
lifting a heavy weight. [Colloq.]

3. Etym: [AS. muscle, L. musculus a muscle, mussel. See above.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mussel. Muscle curve (Physiol.), contraction curve of a
muscle; a myogram; the curve inscribed, upon a prepared surface, by
means of a myograph when acted upon by a contracting muscle. The
character of the curve represents the extent of the contraction.

MUSCLED
Mus"cled, a.

Defn: Furnished with muscles; having muscles; as, things well
muscled.

MUSCLE READING
Mus"cle read`ing.

Defn: The art of making discriminations between objects of choice, of
discovering the whereabouts of hidden objects, etc., by inference
from the involuntary movements of one whose hand the reader holds or
with whom he is otherwise in muscular contact.

MUSCLING
Mus"cling, n. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Exhibition or representation of the muscles. [R.]
A good piece, the painters say, must have good muscling, as well as
coloring and drapery. Shaftesbury.

MUSCOGEES
Mus*co"gees, n. pl.

Defn: See Muskogees.

MUSCOID
Mus"coid, a. Etym: [Muscus + -oid: cf. F. muscoide.] (Bot.)

Defn: Mosslike; resembling moss.

MUSCOID
Mus"coid, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A term formerly applied to any mosslike flowerless plant, with
a distinct stem, and often with leaves, but without any vascular
system.

MUSCOLOGY
Mus*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Muscus + -logy.]

Defn: Bryology.

MUSCOSITY
Mus*cos"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. muscosus mossy, fr. muscus moss.]

Defn: Mossiness. Jonhson.

MUSCOVADO
Mus`co*va"do, a. Etym: [Corrupted fr. Sp. mascabado; cf. Pg.
mascavado, F. moscouade, n., formerly also mascovade, It. mascavato.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, unrefined or raw sugar,
obtained from the juice of the sugar cane by evaporating and draining
off the molasses. Muscovado sugar contains impurities which render it
dark colored and moist.

MUSCOVADO
Mus`co*va"do, n.

Defn: Unrefined or raw sugar.

MUSCOVITE
Mus"co*vite, n. Etym: [See Muscovy glass.]

1. A native or inhabitant of Muscovy or ancient Russia; hence, a
Russian.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Common potash mica. See Mica.

MUSCOVY DUCK
Mus"co*vy duck`. Etym: [A corruption of musk duck.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A duck (Cairina moschata), larger than the common duck, often
raised in poultry yards. Called also musk duck. It is native of
tropical America, from Mexico to Southern Brazil.

MUSCOVY GLASS
Mus"co*vy glass`. Etym: [From Muscovy, the old name of Russia: cf. F.
verre de Moscovie.]

Defn: Mica; muscovite. See Mica.

MUSCULAR
Mus"cu*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. musculaire. See Muscle.]

1. Of or pertaining to a muscle, or to a system of muscles;
consisting of, or constituting, a muscle or muscles; as, muscular
fiber.
Great muscular strength, accompanied by much awkwardness. Macaulay.

2. Performed by, or dependent on, a muscle or the muscles. "The
muscular motion." Arbuthnot.

3. Well furnished with muscles; having well-developed muscles;
brawny; hence, strong; powerful; vigorous; as, a muscular body or
arm. Muscular Christian, one who believes in a part of religious duty
to maintain a healthful and vigorous physical state. T. Hughes.
 -- Muscular CHristianity. (a) The practice and opinion of those
Christians who believe that it is a part of religious duty to
maintain a vigorous condition of the body, and who therefore approve
of athletic sports and exercises as conductive to good health, good
morals, and right feelings in religious matters. T. Hughes. (b) An
active, robust, and cheerful Christian life, as opposed to a
meditative and gloomy one. C. Kingsley.
 -- Muscular excitability (Physiol.), that property in virtue of
which a muscle shortens, when it is stimulated; irritability.
 -- Muscular sense (Physiol.), muscular sensibility; the sense by
which we obtain knowledge of the condition of our muscles and to what
extent they are contracted, also of the position of the various parts
of our bodies and the resistance offering by external objects.

MUSCULARITY
Mus`cu*lar"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being muscular. Grew.

MUSCULARIZE
Mus"cu*lar*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make muscular. Lowell.

MUSCULARLY
Mus"cu*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In a muscular manner.

MUSCULATION
Mus`cu*la"tion, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The muscular system of an animal, or of any of its parts.

MUSCULATURE
Mus"cu*la*ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. musculature.] (Anat.)

Defn: Musculation.

MUSCULE
Mus"cule, n. Etym: [L. musculus: cf. F. muscule.] (Mil.)

Defn: A long movable shed used by besiegers in ancient times in
attacking the walls of a fortified town.

MUSCULIN
Mus"cu*lin, n. Etym: [L. musculus a muscle.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: See Syntonin.

MUSCULOCUTANEOUS
Mus`cu*lo*cu*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. musculus + E. cutaneous.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining both to muscles and skin; as, the musculocutaneous
nerve.

MUSCULOPHRENIC
Mus`cu*lo*phren"ic, a. Etym: [L. musculus muscle + E. phrenic.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the muscles and the diaphragm; as, the
musculophrenic artery.

MUSCULOSITY
Mus`cu*los"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being musculous; muscularity. [Obs.]

MUSCULOSPIRAL
Mus`cu*lo*spi"ral, a. Etym: [L. musculus muscle + E. spiral.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the muscles, and taking a spiral course; --
applied esp. to a large nerve of the arm.

MUSCULOUS
Mus"cu*lous, a. Etym: [L. musculosus: cf. F. musculeux.]

Defn: Muscular. [Obs.] Jonhson.

MUSE
Muse, n. Etym: [From F. musse. See Muset.]

Defn: A gap or hole in a hedge, hence, wall, or the like, through
which a wild animal is accustomed to pass; a muset.
Find a hare without a muse. Old Prov.

MUSE
Muse, n. Etym: [F. Muse, L. Musa, Gr. Mosaic, n., Music.]

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: One of the nine goddesses who presided over song and the
different kinds of poetry, and also the arts and sciences; -- often
used in the plural.
Granville commands; your aid, O Muses, bring: What Muse for Granville
can refuse to sing Pope.

Note: The names of the Muses were Calliope, Clio, Erato, Euterpe,
Melpomene, Polymnia or Polyhymnia, Terpsichore, Thalia, and Urania.

2. A particular power and practice of poetry. Shak.

3. A poet; a bard. [R.] Milton.

MUSE
Muse, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mused; p. pr. & vb. n. Musing.] Etym: [F.
muser to loiter or trifle, orig., to stand with open mouth, fr. LL.
musus, morsus, muzzle, snout, fr. L. morsus a biting, bite, fr.
mordere to bite. See Morsel, and cf. Amuse, Muzzle, n.]

1. To think closely; to study in silence; to meditate. "Thereon mused
he." Chaucer.
He mused upon some dangerous plot. Sir P. Sidney.

2. To be absent in mind; to be so occupied in study or contemplation
as not to observe passing scenes or things present; to be in a brown
study. Daniel.

3. To wonder. [Obs.] Spenser. B. Jonson.

Syn.
 -- To consider; meditate; ruminate. See Ponder.

MUSE
Muse, v. t.

1. To think on; to meditate on.
Come, then, expressive Silence, muse his praise. Thomson.

2. To wonder at. [Obs.] Shak.

MUSE
Muse, n.

1. Contemplation which abstracts the mind from passing scenes;
absorbing thought; hence, absence of mind; a brown study. Milton.

2. Wonder, or admiration. [Obs.] Spenser.

MUSEFUL
Muse"ful, a.

Defn: Meditative; thoughtfully silent. "Museful mopings." Dryden.
 -- Muse"ful*ly, adv.

MUSELESS
Muse"less, a.

Defn: Unregardful of the Muses; disregarding the power of poetry;
unpoetical. Milton.

MUSER
Mus"er, n.

Defn: One who muses.

MUSET
Mu"set, n. Etym: [OF. mussette, dim. of musse, muce, a hiding place,
fr. F. musser, OF. mucier, muchier, to conceal, hide. Cf. Micher.]

Defn: A small hole or gap through which a wild animal passes; a muse.
Shak.

MUSETTE
Mu*sette", n. Etym: [F., dim. of OF. muse.]

1. A small bagpipe formerly in use, having a soft and sweet tone.

2. An air adapted to this instrument; also, a kind of rustic dance.

MUSEUM
Mu*se"um, n. Etym: [L., a temple of the Muses, hence, a place of
study, fr. Gr.

Defn: A repository or a collection of natural, scientific, or
literary curiosities, or of works of art. Museum beetle, Museum pest.
(Zoöl.) See Anthrenus.

MUSH
Mush, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. mus, muss, pap, porridge, any thick
preparation of fruit, OHG. muos; akin to AS. & OS. mos food, and
prob, to E. meat. See Meat.]

Defn: Meal (esp. Indian meal) boiled in water; hasty pudding; supawn.
[U.S.]

MUSH
Mush, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. moucheter to cut with small cuts.]

Defn: To notch, cut, or indent, as cloth, with a stamp.

MUSHROOM
Mush"room, n. Etym: [OE. muscheron, OF. mouscheron, F. mousseron;
perhaps fr. mousse moss, of German origin. See Moss.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) An edible fungus (Agaricus campestris), having a white stalk
which bears a convex or oven flattish expanded portion called the
pileus. This is whitish and silky or somewhat scaly above, and bears
on the under side radiating gills which are at first flesh-colored,
but gradually become brown. The plant grows in rich pastures and is
proverbial for rapidity of growth and shortness of duration. It has a
pleasant smell, and is largely used as food. It is also cultivated
from spawn.
(b) Any large fungus, especially one of the genus Agaricus; a
toadstool. Several species are edible; but many are very poisonous.

2. One who rises suddenly from a low condition in life; an upstart.
Bacon.

MUSHROOM
Mush"room, a.

1. Of or pertaining to mushrooms; as, mushroom catchup.

2. Resembling mushrooms in rapidity of growth and shortness of
duration; short-lived; ephemerial; as, mushroom cities. Mushroom
anchor, an anchor shaped like a mushroom, capable of grasping the
ground in whatever way it falls.
 -- Mushroom coral (Zoöl.), any coral of the genus Fungia. See
Fungia.
 -- Mushroom spawn (Bot.), the mycelium, or primary filamentous
growth, of the mushroom; also, cakes of earth and manure containing
this growth, which are used for propagation of the mushroom.

MUSHROOM-HEADED
Mush"room-head`ed, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a cylindrical body with a convex head of larger
diameter; having a head like that of a mushroom.

MUSHY
Mush"y, a.

Defn: Soft like mush; figuratively, good-naturedly weak and effusive;
weakly sentimental.
She 's not mushy, but her heart is tender. G. Eliot.

MUSIC
Mu"sic, n. Etym: [F. musique, fr. L. musica, Gr.

1. The science and the art of tones, or musical sounds, i.e., sounds
of higher or lower pitch, begotten of uniform and synchronous
vibrations, as of a string at various degrees of tension; the science
of harmonical tones which treats of the principles of harmony, or the
properties, dependences, and relations of tones to each other; the
art of combining tones in a manner to please the ear.

Note: Not all sounds are tones. Sounds may be unmusical and yet
please the ear. Music deals with tones, and with no other sounds. See
Tone.

2.
(a) Melody; a rhythmical and otherwise agreeable succession of tones.
(b) Harmony; an accordant combination of simultaneous tones.

3. The written and printed notation of a musical composition; the
score.

4. Love of music; capacity of enjoying music.
The man that hath ni music in himself Nor is not moved with concord
of sweet sounds, Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils. Shak.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A more or less musical sound made by many of the lower animals.
See Stridulation. Magic music, a game in which a person is guided in
finding a hidden article, or in doing a specific art required, by
music which is made more loud or rapid as he approaches success, and
slower as he recedes. Tennyson.
 -- Music box. See Musical box, under Musical.
 -- Music hall, a place for public musical entertainments.
 -- Music loft, a gallery for musicians, as in a dancing room or a
church.
 -- Music of the spheres, the harmony supposed to be produced by the
accordant movement of the celestial spheres.
 -- Music paper, paper ruled with the musical staff, for the use of
composers and copyists.
 -- Music pen, a pen for ruling at one time the five lines of the
musical staff.
 -- Music shell (Zoöl.), a handsomely colored marine gastropod shell
(Voluta musica) found in the East Indies; -- so called because the
color markings often resemble printed music. Sometimes applied to
other shells similarly marked.
 -- To face the music, to meet any disagreeable necessity without
flinching. [Colloq. or Slang]

MUSICAL
Mu"sic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. musical.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to music; having the qualities of music; or
the power of producing music; devoted to music; melodious;
harmonious; as, musical proportion; a musical voice; musical
instruments; a musical sentence; musical persons. Musical, or Music,
box, a box or case containing apparatus moved by clockwork so as to
play certain tunes automatically.
 -- Musical fish (Zoöl.), any fish which utters sounds under water,
as the drumfish, grunt, gizzard shad, etc.
 -- Musical glasses, glass goblets or bowls so tuned and arranged
that when struck, or rubbed, they produce musical notes. CF.
Harmonica, 1.

MUSICAL
Mu"sic*al, n.

1. Music. [Obs.]
To fetch home May with their musical. Spenser.

2. A social entertainment of which music is the leading feature; a
musical party. [Colloq.]

MUSICALE
Mu`si`cale", n. Etym: [F. Cf. Soirée musicale.]

Defn: A social musical party. [Colloq.]

MUSICALLY
Mu"sic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a musical manner.

MUSICALNESS
Mu"sic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being musical.

MUSIC DRAMA
Mu"sic dra`ma.

Defn: An opera in which the text and action are not interrupted by
set arias, duets, etc., the music being determined throughout by
dramatic appropriateness; musical drama of this character, in
general. It involves the use of a kind of melodious declamation, the
development of leitmotif, great orchestral elaboration, and a fusion
of poetry, music, action, and scene into an organic whole. The term
is applied esp. to the later works of Wagner: "Tristan und Isolde,"
"Die Meistersinger," "Rheingold," "Walküre," "Siegfried,"
"Götterdämmerung," and "Parsifal."

MUSIC HALL
Music hall.

Defn: A place for public musical entertainments; specif. (Eng.), esp.
a public hall for vaudeville performances, in which smoking and
drinking are usually allowed in the auditorium.

MUSICIAN
Mu*si"cian, n. Etym: [F. musicien.]

Defn: One skilled in the art or science of music; esp., a skilled
singer, or performer on a musical instrument.

MUSICOMANIA
Mu`si*co*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Music + mania: cf. F. musicomanie.]
(Med.)

Defn: A kind of monomania in which the passion for music becomes so
strong as to derange the intellectual faculties. Dunglison.

MUSIMON
Mus"i*mon, n. Etym: [See Musmon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mouflon.

MUSINGLY
Mus"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a musing manner.

MUSIT
Mu"sit, n.

Defn: See Muset.

MUSK
Musk, n. Etym: [F. musc, L. muscus, Per. musk, fr. Skr. mushka
testicle, orig., a little mouse. See Mouse, and cd. Abelmosk,
Muscadel, Muscovy duck, Nutmeg.]

1. A substance of a reddish brown color, and when fresh of the
consistence of honey, obtained from a bag being behind the navel of
the male musk deer. It has a slightly bitter taste, but is specially
remarkable for its powerful and enduring odor. It is used in medicine
as a stimulant antispasmodic. The term is also applied to secretions
of various other animals, having a similar odor.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The musk deer. See Musk deer (below).

3. The perfume emitted by musk, or any perfume somewhat similar.

4. (Bot.)
(a) The musk plant (Mimulus moschatus).
(b) A plant of the genus Erodium (E. moschatum); -- called also musky
heron's-bill.
(c) A plant of the genus Muscari; grape hyacinth. Musk beaver
(Zoöl.), muskrat (1).
 -- Musk beetle (Zoöl.), a European longicorn beetle (Aromia
moschata), having an agreeable odor resembling that of attar of
roses.
 -- Musk cat. See Bondar.
 -- Musk cattle (Zoöl.), musk oxen. See Musk ox (below).
 -- Musk deer (Zoöl.), a small hornless deer (Moschus moschiferus),
which inhabits the elevated parts of Central Asia. The upper canine
teeth of the male are developed into sharp tusks, curved downward.
The male has scent bags on the belly, from which the musk of commerce
is derived. The deer is yellow or red-brown above, whitish below. The
pygmy musk deer are chevrotains, as the kanchil and napu.
 -- Musk duck. (Zoöl.) (a) The Muscovy duck. (b) An Australian duck
(Biziura lobata).
 -- Musk lorikeet (Zoöl.), the Pacific lorikeet (Glossopsitta
australis) of Australia.
 -- Musk mallow (Bot.), a name of two malvaceous plants: (a) A
species of mallow (Malva moschata), the foliage of which has a faint
musky smell. (b) An Asiatic shrub. See Abelmosk.
 -- Musk orchis (Bot.), a European plant of the Orchis family
(Herminium Minorchis); -- so called from its peculiar scent.
 -- Musk ox (Zoöl.), an Arctic hollow-horned ruminant (Ovibos
moschatus), now existing only in America, but found fossil in Europe
and Asia. It is covered with a thick coat of fine yellowish wool, and
with long dark hair, which is abundant and shaggy on the neck and
shoulders. The full-grown male weighs over four hundred pounds.
 -- Musk parakeet. (Zoöl.) Same as Musk lorikeet (above).
 -- Musk pear (Bot.), a fragrant kind of pear much resembling the
Seckel pear.
 -- Musk plant (Bot.), the Mimulus moschatus, a plant found in
Western North America, often cultivated, and having a strong musky
odor.
 -- Musk root (Bot.), the name of several roots with a strong odor,
as that of the nard (Nardostachys Jatamansi) and of a species of
Angelica.
 -- Musk rose (Bot.), a species of rose (Rosa moschata), having
peculiarly fragrant white blossoms.
 -- Musk seed (Bot.), the seed of a plant of the Mallow family
(Hibiscus moschatus), used in perfumery and in flavoring. See
Abelmosk.
 -- Musk sheep (Zoöl.), the musk ox.
 -- Musk shrew (Zoöl.), a shrew (Sorex murinus), found in India. It
has a powerful odor of musk. Called also sondeli, and mondjourou.
 -- Musk thistle (Bot.), a species of thistle (Carduus nutans),
having fine large flowers, and leaves smelling strongly of musk.
 -- Musk tortoise, Musk turtle (Zoöl.), a small American fresh-water
tortoise (Armochelys, or Ozotheca, odorata), which has a distinct
odor of musk; -- called also stinkpot.

MUSK
Musk, v. t.

Defn: To perfume with musk.

MUSKADEL
Mus"ka*del`, n.

Defn: See Muscadel.

MUSKAT
Mus"kat, n.

Defn: See Muscat.

MUSKELLUNGE
Mus"kel*lunge, n. Etym: [From the Amer. Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large American pike (Esox nobilitor) found in the Great
Lakes, and other Northern lakes, and in the St. Lawrence River. It is
valued as a food fish. [Written also maskallonge, maskinonge,
muskallonge, muskellonge, and muskelunjeh.]

MUSKET
Mus"ket, n. Etym: [F. mousquet, It. moschetto, formerly, a kind of
hawk; cf. OF. mousket, moschet, a kind of hawk falcon, F. mouchet,
prop., a little fly (the hawk prob. being named from its size), fr.
L. musca a fly. Cf. Mosquito.] [Sometimes written also musquet.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The male of the sparrow hawk.

2. A species of firearm formerly carried by the infantry of an army.
It was originally fired by means of a match, or matchlock, for which
several mechanical appliances (including the flintlock, and finally
the percussion lock) were successively substituted. This arm has been
generally superseded by the rifle.

MUSKETEER
Mus`ket*eer", n. Etym: [F. mousquetaire; cf. It. moschettiere.]

Defn: A soldier armed with a musket.

MUSKETO
Mus*ke"to, n.

Defn: See Mosquito.

MUSKETOON
Mus`ket*oon", n. Etym: [F. mousqueton; cf. It. moschettone.]

1. A short musket.

2. One who is armed with such a musket.

MUSKETRY
Mus"ket*ry, n. Etym: [F. mousqueterie; cf. It. moschetteria.]

1. Muskets, collectively.

2. The fire of muskets. Motley.

MUSKINESS
Musk"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being musky; the scent of musk.

MUSKMELON
Musk"mel`on, n. Etym: [Musk + melon.] (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of a cucubritaceous plant (Cicumis Melo), having a
peculiar aromatic flavor, and cultivated in many varieties, the
principal sorts being the cantaloupe, of oval form and yellowish
flesh, and the smaller nutmeg melon with greenish flesh. See Illust.
of Melon.

MUSKOGEES
Mus*ko"gees, n. pl.; sing. Muskogee (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A powerful tribe of North American Indians that formerly
occupied the region of Georgia, Florida, and Alabama. They
constituted a large part of the Creek confederacy. [Written also
Muscogees.]

MUSKRAT
Musk"rat`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A North American aquatic fur-bearing rodent (Fiber zibethicus).
It resembles a rat in color and having a long scaly tail, but the
tail is compressed, the bind feet are webbed, and the ears are
concealed in the fur. It has scent glands which secrete a substance
having a strong odor of musk. Called also musquash, musk beaver, and
ondatra.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The musk shrew.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The desman.

MUSKWOOD
Musk"wood`, n. Etym: [So called from its fragrance.] (Bot.)
(a) The wood of a West Indian tree of the Mahogany family
(Moschoxylum Swartzii).
(b) The wood of an Australian tree (Eurybia argophylla).

MUSKY
Musk"y, a.

Defn: Having an odor of musk, or somewhat the like. Milton.

MUSLIM
Mus"lim, n.

Defn: See Moslem.

MUSLIN
Mus"lin, n. Etym: [F. mousseline; cf. It. mussolino, mussolo, Sp.
muselina; all from Mussoul a city of Mesopotamia, Ar. Mausil, Syr.
Mauzol, Muzol, Mosul, where it was first manufactured. Cf. Mull a
kind of cloth.]

Defn: A thin cotton, white, dyed, or printed. The name is also
applied to coarser and heavier cotton goods; as, shirting and
sheeting muslins. Muslin cambric. See Cambric.
 -- Muslin delaine, a light woolen fabric for women's dresses. See
Delaine. [Written also mousseline de laine.]

MUSLINET
Mus`lin*et", n. Etym: [F. mousselinette.]

Defn: A sort of coarse or light cotton cloth.

MUSMON
Mus"mon, n. Etym: [L. musmo, musimo, a Sardinian animal; cf. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mouflon.

MUSOMANIA
Mu`so*ma"ni*a, n.

Defn: See Musicomania.

MUSQUASH
Mus"quash, n. Etym: [American Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Muskrat. Musquash root (Bot.), an umbelliferous plant
(Cicuta maculata), having a poisonous root. See Water hemlock.

MUSQUAW
Mus"quaw, n. Etym: [American Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American black bear. See Bear.

MUSQUET
Mus"quet, n.

Defn: See Musket.

MUSQUITO
Mus*qui"to, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mosquito.

MUSROLE; MUSROL
Mus"role, Mus"rol, n. Etym: [F. muserolle, fr. muserau a muzzle, OF.
musel. See Muzzle.]

Defn: The nose band of a horse's bridle.

MUSS
Muss, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. mousche a fly, also, the play called muss,
fr. L. musca a fly.]

Defn: A scramble, as when small objects are thrown down, to be taken
by those who can seize them; a confused struggle. Shak.

MUSS
Muss, n.

Defn: A state of confusion or disorder; -- prob. variant of mess, but
influenced by muss, a scramble. [Colloq. U.S.]

MUSS
Muss, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mussed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mussing.]

Defn: To disarrange, as clothing; to rumple. [Colloq. U.S.]

MUSS
Muss, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. mus a mouse. See Mouse.]

Defn: A term of endearment. [Obs.] See Mouse. B. Jonson.

MUSSEL
Mus"sel, n. Etym: [See Muscle, 3.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of many species of marine bivalve shells of the genus
Mytilus, and related genera, of the family Mytidæ. The common mussel
(Mytilus edulis; see Illust. under Byssus), and the larger, or horse,
mussel (Modiola modiolus), inhabiting the shores both of Europe and
America, are edible. The former is extensively used as food in
Europe.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of Unio, and related fresh-water
genera; -- called also river mussel. See Naiad, and Unio. Mussel
digger (Zoöl.), the grayback whale. See Gray whale, under Gray.

MUSSITATION
Mus`si*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. mussitatio suppression of the voice, fr.
mussitare to be silent, to murmur.]

Defn: A speaking in a low tone; mumbling. [Obs.]

MUSSITE
Mus"site, n. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of pyroxene, from the Mussa Alp in Piedmont;
diopside.

MUSSULMAN
Mus"sul*man, n.; pl. Mussulmans. Etym: [Ar. muslimin, pl. of muslim:
cf. F. & Sp. musulman. See Moslem.]

Defn: A Mohammedan; a Moslem.

MUSSULMANIC
Mus`sul*man"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, the Mussulmans, or their customs:
Mohammedan.

MUSSULMANISH
Mus"sul*man*ish, a.

Defn: Mohammedan.

MUSSULMANISM
Mus"sul*man*ism, n.

Defn: Mohammedanism.

MUSSULMANLY
Mus"sul*man*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of Moslems.

MUSSY
Muss"y, a. Etym: [From 2d Muss.]

Defn: Disarranged; rumpled. [Colloq. U.S.]

MUST
Must, v. i. or auxiliary. Etym: [OE. moste, a pret. generally
meaning, could, was free to, pres. mot, moot, AS. moste, pret. mot,
pres.; akin to D. moetan to be obliged, OS. motan to be free, to be
obliged, OHG. muozan, G. müssen to be obliged, Sw. måste must, Goth.
gamotan to have place, have room, to able; of unknown origin.]

1. To be obliged; to be necessitated; -- expressing either physical
or moral necessity; as, a man must eat for nourishment; we must
submit to the laws.

2. To be morally required; to be necessary or essential to a certain
quality, character, end, or result; as, he must reconsider the
matter; he must have been insane.
Likewise must the deacons be grave. 1 Tim. iii. 8.
Morover, he [a bishop] must have a good report of them which are
without. 1 Tim. iii. 7.

Note: The principal verb, if easy supplied by the mind, was formerly
often omitted when must was used; as, I must away. "I must to
Coventry." Shak.

MUST
Must, n. Etym: [AS. must, fr. L. mustum (sc. vinum), from mustus
young, new, fresh. Cf. Mustard.]

1. The expressed juice of the grape, or other fruit, before
fermentation. "These men ben full of must." Wyclif (Acts ii. 13. ).
No fermenting must fills ... the deep vats. Longfellow.

2. Etym: [Cf. Musty.]

Defn: Mustiness.

MUST
Must, v. t. & i.

Defn: To make musty; to become musty.

MUSTAC
Mus"tac, n. Etym: [F. moustac.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small tufted monkey.

MUSTACHE
Mus*tache", n.; pl. Mustaches (. [Written also moustache.] Etym: [F.
moustache, It. mostaccio visage, mostacchio mustache, fr. Gr.
mostacho.]

1. That part of the beard which grows on the upper lip; hair left
growing above the mouth.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A West African monkey (Cercopithecus cephus). It has yellow
whiskers, and a triangular blue mark on the nose.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any conspicuous stripe of color on the side of the head,
beneath the eye of a bird.

MUSTACHO
Mus*ta"cho, n.; pl. Mustachios (.

Defn: A mustache. Longfellow.

MUSTACHOED
Mus*ta"choed, a.

Defn: Having mustachios.

MUSTAHFIZ
Mus`tah"fiz`, n. [Turk. & Ar. mustahsfizs who trusts to another's
keeping, a soldier of a garrison.]

Defn: See Army organization, above.

MUSTAIBA
Mus`ta*i"ba, n.

Defn: A close-grained, neavy wood of a brownish color, brought from
Brazil, and used in turning, for making the handles of tools, and the
like. [Written also mostahiba.] MaElrath.

MUSTANG
Mus"tang, n. Etym: [Sp. musteño belonging to the graziers, strayed,
wild.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The half-wild horse of the plains in Mexico, California, etc.
It is small, hardy, and easily sustained. Mustard grape (Bot.), a
species of grape (Vitis candicans), native in Arkansas and Texas. The
berries are small, light-colored, with an acid skin and a sweet pulp.

MUSTARD
Mus"tard, n. Etym: [OF. moustarde, F. moutarde, fr. L. mustum must, -
- mustard was prepared for use by being mixed with must. See Must,
n.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of several cruciferous plants of the genus Brassica
(formerly Sinapis), as white mustard (B. alba), black mustard (B.
Nigra), wild mustard or charlock (B. Sinapistrum).

Note: There are also many herbs of the same family which are called
mustard, and have more or less of the flavor of the true mustard; as,
bowyer's mustard (Lepidium ruderale); hedge mustard (Sisymbrium
officinale); Mithridate mustard (Thlaspi arvense); tower mustard
(Arabis perfoliata); treacle mustard (Erysimum cheiranthoides).

2. A powder or a paste made from the seeds of black or white mustard,
used as a condiment and a rubefacient. Taken internally it is
stimulant and diuretic, and in large doses is emetic. Mustard oil
(Chem.), a substance obtained from mustard, as a transparent,
volatile and intensely pungent oil. The name is also extended to a
number of analogous compounds produced either naturally or
artificially.

MUSTEE
Mus*tee", n.

Defn: See Mestee.

MUSTELINE
Mus"te*line, a. Etym: [L. mustelinus, fr. mustela weasel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the family Mustelidæ, or the weasels and
martens.

MUSTER
Mus"ter, n. Etym: [OE. moustre, OF. mostre, moustre, F. montre, LL.
monstra. See Muster, v. t.]

1. Something shown for imitation; a pattern. [Obs.]

2. A show; a display. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

3. An assembling or review of troops, as for parade, verification of
numbers, inspection, exercise, or introduction into service.
The hurried muster of the soldiers of liberty. Hawthorne.
See how in warlike muster they appear, In rhombs, and wedges, and
half-moons, and wings. Milton.

4. The sum total of an army when assembled for review and inspection;
the whole number of effective men in an army.
And the muster was thirty thousands of men. Wyclif.
Ye publish the musters of your own bands, and proclaim them to amount
of thousands. Hooker.

5. Any assemblage or display; a gathering.
Of the temporal grandees of the realm, mentof their wives and
daughters, the muster was great and splendid. Macaulay.
Muster book, a book in which military forces are registred.
 -- Muster file, a muster roll.
 -- Muster master (Mil.), one who takes an account of troops, and of
their equipment; a mustering officer; an inspector. [Eng.] -- Muster
roll (Mil.), a list or register of all the men in a company, troop,
or regiment, present or accounted for on the day of muster.
 -- To pass muster, to pass through a muster or inspection without
censure.
Such excuses will not pass muster with God. South.

MUSTER
Mus"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mustered; p. pr. & vb. n. Mustering.]
Etym: [OE. mustren, prop., to show, OF. mostrer, mustrer, moustrer,
monstrer, F. montrer, fr. L. monstrare to show. See Monster.]

1. To collect and display; to assemble, as troops for parade,
inspection, exercise, or the like. Spenser.

2. Hence: To summon together; to enroll in service; to get together.
"Mustering all its force." Cowper.
All the gay feathers he could muster. L'Estrange.
To muster troops into service (Mil.), to inspect and enter troops on
the muster roll of the army.
 -- To muster troops out of service (Mil.), to register them for
final payment and discharge.
 -- To muster up, to gather up; to succeed in obtaining; to obtain
with some effort or difficulty.
One of those who can muster up sufficient sprightliness to engage in
a game of forfeits. Hazlitt.

MUSTER
Mus"ter, v. i.

Defn: To be gathered together for parade, inspection, exercise, or
the like; to come together as parts of a force or body; as, his
supporters mustered in force. "The mustering squadron." Byron.

MUSTILY
Mus"ti*ly, a.

Defn: In a musty state.

MUSTINESS
Mus"ti*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being musty.

MUSTY
Mus"ty, a. [Compar. Mustier; superl. Mustiest.] Etym: [From L. mustum
must; or perh. fr. E. moist. Cf. Must, n., Moist.]

1. Having the rank, pungent, offencive odor and taste which
substances of organic origin acquire during warm, moist weather; foul
or sour and fetid; moldy; as, musty corn; musty books. Harvey.

2. Spoiled by age; rank; stale.
The proverb is somewhat musty. Shak.

3. Dull; heavy; spiritless. "That he may not grow musty and unfit for
conversation." Addison.

MUTABILITY
Mu`ta*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. mutabilitas: cf. F. mutabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being mutable, or subject to change or
alteration, either in form, state, or essential character;
susceptibility of change; changeableness; inconstancy; variation.
Plato confessed that the heavens and the frame of the world are
corporeal, and therefore subject to mutability. Stillingfleet.

MUTABLE
Mu"ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. mutabilis, fr. mutare to change. See Move.]

1. Capable of alteration; subject to change; changeable in form,
qualities, or nature.
Things of the most accidental and mutable nature. South.

2. Changeable; inconstant; unsettled; unstable; fickle. "Most mutable
wishes." Byron.

Syn.
 -- Changeable; alterable; unstable; unsteady; unsettled; wavering;
inconstant; variable; fickle.

MUTABLENESS
Mu"ta*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being mutable.

MUTABLY
Mu"ta*bly, adv.

Defn: Changeably.

MUTACISM
Mu"ta*cism, n.

Defn: See Mytacism.

MUTAGE
Mu"tage, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A process for checking the fermentation of the must of grapes.

MUTANDUM
Mu*tan"dum, n.; pl. Mutanda. Etym: [L., fr. mutare to change.]

Defn: A thing which is to be changed; something which must be
altered; -- used chiefly in the plural.

MUTATION
Mu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. mutatio, fr. mutare to change: cf. F.
mutation. See Mutable.]

Defn: Change; alteration, either in form or qualities.
The vicissitude or mutations in the superior globe are no fit matter
for this present argument. Bacon.

MUTCH
Mutch, n. Etym: [Cf. D. mutse a cap, G. mütze. Cf. Amice a cape.]

Defn: The close linen or muslin cap of an old woman. [Prov. Eng. &
Scot.]

MUTCHKIN
Mutch"kin, n.

Defn: A liquid measure equal to four gills, or an imperial pint.
[Scot.]

MUTE
Mute, v. t. Etym: [L. mutare to change. See Molt.]

Defn: To cast off; to molt.
Have I muted all my feathers Beau. & Fl.

MUTE
Mute, v. t. & i. Etym: [F. mutir, émeutir, OF. esmeltir, fr. OD.
smelten, prop., to melt. See Smelt.]

Defn: To eject the contents of the bowels; -- said of birds. B.
Jonson.

MUTE
Mute, n.

Defn: The dung of birds. Hudibras.

MUTE
Mute, a. Etym: [L. mutus; cf. Gr. m bound, m dumb: cf. OE. muet, fr.
F. muet, a dim. of OF. mu, L. mutus.]

1. Not speaking; uttering no sound; silent.
All the heavenly choir stood mute, And silence was in heaven. Milton.

Note: In law a prisoner is said to stand mute, when, upon being
arranged, he makes no answer, or does not plead directly, or will not
put himself on trial.

2. Incapable of speaking; dumb. Dryden.

3. Not uttered; unpronounced; silent; also, produced by complete
closure of the mouth organs which interrupt the passage of breath; --
said of certain letters. See 5th Mute, 2.

4. Not giving a ringing sound when struck; -- said of a metal. Mute
swan (Zoöl.), a European wild white swan (Cygnus gibbus), which
produces no loud notes.

Syn.
 -- Silent; dumb; speechless.
 -- Mute, Silent, Dumb. One is silent who does not speak; one is dumb
who can not, for want of the proper organs; as, a dumb beast, etc.;
and hence, figuratively, we speak of a person as struck dumb with
astonishment, etc. One is mute who is held back from speaking by some
special cause; as, he was mute through fear; mute astonishment, etc.
Such is the case with most of those who never speak from childhood;
they are not ordinarily dumb, but mute because they are deaf, and
therefore never learn to talk; and hence their more appropriate name
is deaf-mutes.
They spake not a word; But, like dumb statues, or breathing stones,
Gazed each on other. Shak.
All sat mute, Pondering the danger with deep thoughts. Milton.

MUTE
Mute, n.

1. One who does not speak, whether from physical inability,
unwillingness, or other cause. Specifically:
(a) One who, from deafness, either congenital or from early life, is
unable to use articulate language; a deaf-mute.
(b) A person employed by undertakers at a funeral.
(c) A person whose part in a play does not require him to speak.
(d) Among the Turks, an officer or attendant who is selected for his
place because he can not speak.

2. (Phon.)

Defn: A letter which represents no sound; a silent letter; also, a
close articulation; an element of speech formed by a position of the
mouth organs which stops the passage of the breath; as, p, b, d, k,
t.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A little utensil made of brass, ivory, or other material, so
formed that it can be fixed in an erect position on the bridge of a
violin, or similar instrument, in order to deaden or soften the tone.

MUTE-HILL
Mute"-hill`, n.

Defn: See Moot-hill. [Scot.]

MUTELY
Mute"ly, adv.

Defn: Without uttering words or sounds; in a mute manner; silently.

MUTENESS
Mute"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being mute; speechlessness.

MUTESSARIF
Mu*tes`sa*rif", n. [Turk. & Ar. muteçarif freely disposing of
anything, master.]

Defn: In Turkey, an administrative authority of any of certain
sanjaks. They are appointed directly by the Sultan.

MUTESSARIFAT
Mu*tes`sa*ri*fat", n. [Turk. & Ar. muteçarifah office of a
mutessarif.]

Defn: In Turkey, a sanjak whose head is a mutessarif.

MUTIC; MUTICOUS
Mu"tic, Mu"ti*cous, a. Etym: [L. muticus, for mutilus. See Mutilate.]
(Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Without a point or pointed process; blunt.

MUTILATE
Mu"ti*late, a. Etym: [L. mutilatus, p.p. of mutilare to mutilate, fr.
mutilus maimed; cf. Gr. Mutton.]

1. Deprived of, or having lost, an important part; mutilated. Sir T.
Browne.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having finlike appendages or flukes instead of legs, as a
cetacean.

MUTILATE
Mu"ti*late, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cetacean, or a sirenian.

MUTILATE
Mu"ti*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mutilated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mutilating.]

1. To cut off or remove a limb or essential part of; to maim; to
cripple; to hack; as, to mutilate the body, a statue, etc.

2. To destroy or remove a material part of, so as to render
imperfect; as, to mutilate the orations of Cicero.
Among the mutilated poets of antiquity, there is none whose fragments
are so beautiful as those of Sappho. Addison.
Mutilated gear, Mutilated wheel (Mach.), a gear wheel from a portion
of whose periphery the cogs are omitted. It is used for giving
intermittent movements.

MUTILATION
Mu`ti*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. mutilatio: cf. F. mutilation.]

Defn: The act of mutilating, or the state of being mutilated;
deprivation of a limb or of an essential part.

MUTILATOR
Mu"ti*la"tor, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mutilateur.]

Defn: One who mutilates.

MUTILOUS
Mu"ti*lous, a. Etym: [L. mutilus. See Mutilate.]

Defn: Mutilated; defective; imperfect. [Obs.]

MUTINE
Mu"tine, n. Etym: [F. mutin.]

Defn: A mutineer. [Obs.]

MUTINE
Mu"tine, v. i. Etym: [F. mutiner.]

Defn: To mutiny. [Obs.]

MUTINEER
Mu"ti*neer`, n. Etym: [See Mutiny.]

Defn: One guilty of mutiny.

MUTING
Mut"ing, n.

Defn: Dung of birds.

MUTINOUS
Mu"ti*nous, a. Etym: [See Mutiny.]

Defn: Disposed to mutiny; in a state of mutiny; characterized by
mutiny; seditious; insubordinate.
The city was becoming mutinous. Macaulay.
-- Mu"ti*nous*ly, adv.
 -- Mu"ti*nous*ness, n.

MUTINY
Mu"ti*ny, n.; pl. Mutinies. Etym: [From mutine to mutiny, fr. F. se
mutiner, fr. F. mutin stubborn, mutinous, fr. OF. meute riot, LL.
movita, fr. movitus, for L. motus, p.p. of movere to move. See Move.]

1. Insurrection against constituted authority, particularly military
or naval authority; concerted revolt against the rules of discipline
or the lawful commands of a superior officer; hence, generally,
forcible resistance to rightful authority; insubordination.
In every mutiny against the discipline of the college, he was the
ringleader. Macaulay.

2. Violent commotion; tumult; strife. [Obs.]
o raise a mutiny betwixt yourselves. Shak.
Mutiny act (Law), an English statute reënacted annually to punish
mutiny and desertion. Wharton.

Syn.
 -- See Insurrection.

MUTINY
Mu"ti*ny, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mutinied; p. pr. & vb. n. Mutinying.]

1. To rise against, or refuse to obey, lawful authority in military
or naval service; to excite, or to be guilty of, mutiny or mutinous
conduct; to revolt against one's superior officer, or any rightful
authority.

2. To fall into strifle; to quarrel. [Obs.] Shak.

MUTISM
Mut"ism, n.

Defn: The condition, state, or habit of being mute, or without
speech. Max Müller.

MUTOSCOPE
Mu"to*scope, n. [L. mutare to change + -scope.]

Defn: A simple form of moving-picture machine in which the series of
views, exhibiting the successive phases of a scene, are printed on
paper and mounted around the periphery of a wheel. The rotation of
the wheel brings them rapidly into sight, one after another, and the
blended effect gives a semblance of motion.

MUTTER
Mut"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Muttered; p. pr. & vb. n. Muttering.]
Etym: [Prob. of imitative origin; cf. L. muttire, mutire.]

1. To utter words indistinctly or with a low voice and lips partly
closed; esp., to utter indistinct complains or angry expressions; to
grumble; to growl.
Wizards that peep, and that mutter. Is. viii. 19.
Meantime your filthy foreigner will stare, And mutter to himself.
Dryden.

2. To sound with a low, rumbling noise.
Thick lightings flash, the muttering thunder rolls. Pope.

MUTTER
Mut"ter, v. t.

Defn: To utter with imperfect articulations, or with a low voice; as,
to mutter threats. Shak.

MUTTER
Mut"ter, n.

Defn: Repressing or obscure utterance.

MUTTERER
Mut"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who mutters.

MUTTERINGLY
Mut"ter*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With a low voice and indistinct articulation; in a muttering
manner.

MUTTON
Mut"ton, n. Etym: [OE. motoun, OF. moton, molton, a sheep, wether, F.
mouton, LL. multo, by transposition of l fr. L. mutilus mutilated.
See Mutilate.]

1. A sheep. [Obs.] Chapman.
Not so much ground as will feed a mutton. Sir H. Sidney.
Muttons, beeves, and porkers are good old words for the living
quadrupeds. Hallam.

2. The flesh of a sheep.
The fat of roasted mutton or beef. Swift.

3. A loose woman; a prostitute. [Obs.] Mutton bird (Zoöl.), the
Australian short-tailed petrel (Nectris brevicaudus).
 -- Mutton chop, a rib of mutton for broiling, with the end of the
bone at the smaller part chopped off.
 -- Mutton fish (Zoöl.), the American eelpout. See Eelpout.
 -- Mutton fist, a big brawny fist or hand. [Colloq.] Dryden.
 -- Mutton monger, a pimp [Low & Obs.] Chapman.
 -- To return to one's muttons. Etym: [A translation of a phrase from
a farce by De Brueys, revenons à nos moutons let us return to our
sheep.] To return to one's topic, subject of discussion, etc.
[Humorous]
I willingly return to my muttons. H. R. Haweis.

MUTTONY
Mut"ton*y, a.

Defn: Like mutton; having a flavor of mutton.

MUTUAL
Mu"tu*al, a. Etym: [F. mutuel, L. mutuus, orig., exchanged, borrowed,
lent; akin to mutare to change. See Mutable.]

1. Reciprocally acting or related; reciprocally receiving and giving;
reciprocally given and received; reciprocal; interchanged; as, a
mutual love, advantage, assistance, aversion, etc.
Conspiracy and mutual promise. Sir T. More.
Happy in our mutual help, And mutual love. Milton.
A certain shyness on such subjects, which was mutual between the
sisters. G. Eliot.

2. Possessed, experienced, or done by two or more persons or things
at the same time; common; joint; as, mutual happiness; a mutual
effort. Burke.
A vast accession of misery and woe from the mutual weeping, and
wailing, and gnashing of teeth. Bentley.

Note: This use of mutual as synonymous with common is inconsistent
with the idea of interchange, or reciprocal relation, which properly
belongs to it; but the word has been so used by many writers of high
authority. The present tendency is toward a careful discrimination.
Mutual, as Johnson will tell us, means something reciprocal, a giving
and taking. How could people have mutual ancestors P. Harrison.
Mutual insurance, agreement among a number of persons to insure each
other against loss, as by fire, death, or accident.
 -- Mutual insurance company, one which does a business of insurance
on the mutual principle, the policy holders sharing losses and
profits pro rata.

Syn.
 -- Reciprocal; interchanged; common.

MUTUALISM
Mu"tu*al*ism, n. (Ethics)

Defn: The doctrine of mutual dependence as the condition of
individual and social welfare. F. Harrison. H. Spencer. Mallock.

MUTUALITY
Mu`tu*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mutualité.]

1. The quality of correlation; reciprocation; interchange;
interaction; interdependence.

2. (Law)

Defn: Reciprocity of consideration. Wharton.

MUTUALLY
Mu"tu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mutual manner.

MUTUARY
Mu"tu*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. mutuarius mutual.See Mutuation.] (Law)

Defn: One who borrows personal chattels which are to be consumed by
him, and which he is to return or repay in kind. Bouvier.

MUTUATION
Mu`tu*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. mutuatio, fr. mutuare, mutuari, to borrow,
fr. mutuus. See Mutual.]

Defn: The act of borrowing or exchanging. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

MUTULE
Mu"tule, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. mutulus.] (Arch.)

Defn: A projecting block worked under the corona of the Doric corice,
in the same situation as the modillion of the Corinthian and
Composite orders. See Illust. of Gutta. Oxf. Gloss.

MUX
Mux, n. Etym: [Cf. Mixen.]

Defn: Dirt; filth; muck. [Prov. Eng.] ose.

MUX
Mux, v. t.

Defn: To mix in an unitidy and offensive way; to make a mess of.
[Prov. Eng.; Colloq. U.S.]

MUXY
Mux"y, a.

Defn: Soft; sticky, and dirty. [Prov. Eng.] See Mucky.

MUZARAB
Muz"a*rab, n. Etym: [Sp. mozarabe, fr. Ar. mosta'rib, a name applied
to strange tribes living among the Arabs.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a denomination of Christians formerly living under the
government of the Moors in Spain, and having a liturgy and ritual of
their own. [Written also Mozarab, Mostarab.] Brande & C.

MUZARABIC
Muz`a*rab"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Muzarabs; as, the Muzarabic liturgy.
[Written also Mozarabic.]

MUZZINESS
Muz"zi*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being muzzy.

MUZZLE
Muz"zle, n. Etym: [OE. mosel, OF. musel, F. museau muzzle or snout,
LL. musellus, fr. musus, morsus. See Muse, v. i., and cf. Morsel.]

1. The projecting mouth and nose of a quadruped, as of a horse; a
snout.

2. The mouth of a thing; the end for entrance or discharge; as, the
muzzle of a gun.

3. A fastening or covering (as a band or cage) for the mouth of an
animal, to prevent eating or vicious biting.
With golden muzzles all their mouths were bound Dryden.
Muzzle sight. (Gun.) See Dispart, n., 2.

MUZZLE
Muz"zle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Muzzled; p. pr. & vb. n. Muzzling.]
Etym: [F. museler.]

1. To bind the mouth of; to fasten the mouth of, so as to prevent
biting or eating; hence, figuratively, to bind; to sheathe; to
restrain from speech or action. "My dagger muzzled." Shak.
Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn. Deut.
xxv. 4.

2. To fondle with the closed mouth. [Obs.] L'Estrange.

MUZZLE
Muz"zle, v. i.

Defn: To bring the mouth or muzzle near.
The bear muzzles and smels to him. L'Estrange.

MUZZLE-LOADER
Muz"zle-load`er, n.

Defn: A firearm which receives its charge through the muzzle, as
distinguished from one which is loaded at the breech.

MUZZLE-LOADING
Muz"zle-load`ing, a.

Defn: Receiving its charge through the muzzle; as, a muzzle-loading
rifle.

MUZZY
Muz"zy, a. Etym: [Cf. F. muse.]

Defn: Absent-minded; dazed; muddled; stupid.
The whole company stared at me with a whimsical, muzzy look, like men
whose senses were a little obfuscated by beer rather then wine. W.
Irving.

MY
My, a. & poss. pron. Etym: [OE. mi, fr. min. See Mine, and cf., for
loss of n, A, a., An, a.]

Defn: Of or belonging to me; -- used always attributively; as, my
body; my book; -- mine is used in the predicate; as, the book is
mine. See Mine.

MYA
My"a, n. Etym: [L. mya a kind of mussel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of bivalve mollusks, including the common long, or
soft-shelled, clam.

MYALGIA
My*al"gi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Pain in the muscles; muscular rheumatism or neuralgia.

MYALL WOOD
My*all" wood`. (Bot.)

Defn: A durable, fragrant, and dark-colored Australian wood, used by
the natives for spears. It is obtained from the small tree Acacia
homolophylla.

MYARIA
My*a"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of bivalve mollusks of which the common clam (Mya)
is the type.

MYCELIUM
My*ce"li*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. my`khs a mushroom.] (Bot.)

Defn: The white threads or filamentous growth from which a mushroom
or fungus is developed; the so-called mushroom spawn.
 -- My*ce"li*al, a.

MYCELOID
Myc"e*loid, a. Etym: [Mycelium + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling mycelium.

MYCETES
My*ce"tes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. mykhth`s a bellower, fr. myka^sqai
to bellow.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of South American monkeys, including the howlers. See
Howler, 2, and Illust.

MYCETOID
Myc"e*toid, Etym: [Gr. my`khs, -htos, a fungus + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling a fungus.

MYCETOZOA
My*ce`to*zo"a, n. pl. [NL.; Gr. , , fungus +  pl. of  an animal.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The Myxomycetes; -- so called by those who regard them as a
class of animals. -- My*ce`to*zo"an (#), a.

MYCODERMA
My`co*der"ma, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. my`khs a fungus + de`rma skin.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: One of the forms in which bacteria group themselves; a more or
less thick layer of motionless but living bacteria, formed by the
bacteria uniting on the surface of the fluid in which they are
developed. This production differs from the zoöloea stage of bacteria
by not having the intermediary mucous substance.

2. A genus of microörganisms of which the acetic ferment (Mycoderma
aceti), which converts alcoholic fluids into vinegar, is a
representative. Cf. Mother.

MYCOLOGIC; MYCOLOGICAL
My`co*log"ic, My`co*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or relating to mycology, or the fungi.

MYCOLOGIST
My*col"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in, or who studies, mycology.

MYCOLOGY
My*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. my`khs fungus + -logy.]

Defn: That branch of botanical science which relates to the musgrooms
and other fungi.

MYCOMELIC
My`co*mel"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (spirious) mucus) + (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid of
the alloxan group, obtained as a honey-yellow powder. Its solutions
have a gelatinous consistency.

MYCOPROTEIN
My`co*pro"te*in, n. Etym: [Gr. (spirious) mucus) + E. protein.]
(Biol.)

Defn: The protoplasmic matter of which bacteria are composed.

MYCOSE
My"cose, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose and obtained from
certain lichens and fungi. Called also trehalose. [Written also
mykose.]

MYCOTHRIX
Myc"o*thrix, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (spurious) mucus) + (Biol.)

Defn: The chain of micrococci formed by the division of the
micrococci in multiplication.

MYDALEINE
My*da"le*ine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A toxic alkaloid (ptomaine) obtained from putrid flesh and from
herring brines. As a poison it is said to execute profuse diarrhoea,
vomiting, and intestinal inflammation. Brieger.

MYDATOXIN
Myd`a*tox"in, n. Etym: [Gr. toxic + in.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous amido acid, C6H13NO2, separated by Brieger from
decaying horseflesh. In physiological action, it is similar to
curare.

MYDAUS
Myd"a*us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The teledu.

MYDRIASIS
My*dri"a*sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Physiol. & Med.)

Defn: A long-continued or excessive dilatation of the pupil of the
eye.

MYDRIATIC
Myd`ri*at"ic, a.

Defn: Causing dilatation of the pupil.
 -- n.

Defn: A mydriatic medicine or agent, as belladonna.

MYELENCEPHALA
My`e*len*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Myelencephalon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Vertebrata.

MYELENCEPHALIC
My`e*len`ce*phal"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the myelencephalon; cerebro-spinal.

MYELENCEPHALON
My`e*len*ceph"a*lon, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. encephalon.] (Anat.)
(a) The brain and spinal cord; the cerebro-spinal axis; the neuron.
Sometimes abbreviated to myelencephal.
(b) The metencephalon. Huxley.

MYELENCEPHALOUS
My`e*len*ceph"a*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Myelencephala.

MYELIN
My"e*lin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)
(a) A soft white substance constituting the medullary sheats of nerve
fibers, and composed mainly of cholesterin, lecithin, cerebrin,
albumin, and some fat.
(b) One of a group of phosphorized principles occurring in nerve
tissue, both in the brain and nerve fibers.

MYELITIS
My`e*li"tis, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the spinal marrow or its membranes.

MYELOCOELE
My"e*lo*coele`, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The central canal of the spinal cord.

MYELOGENIC
My`e*lo*gen"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Derived from, or pertaining to, the bone marrow.

MYELOID
My"e*loid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Resembling marrow in appearance or consistency; as, a myeloid
tumor.

MYELOIDIN
My`e*loid"in, n. Etym: [Myelin + -oid + -in.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A substance, present in the protoplasm of the retinal
epithelium cells, and resembling, if not identical with, the
substance (myelin) forming the medullary sheaths of nerve fibers.

MYELON
My"e*lon, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The spinal cord. (Sometimes abbrev. to myel.)

MYELONAL
My"e*lo`nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the myelon; as, the myelonal, or spinal,
nerves.

MYELONEURA
My`e*lo*neu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Vertebrata.

MYELOPLAX
My*el"o*plax, n.; pl. E. Myeloplaxes, L. Myeloplaces. Etym: [NL., fr.
Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the huge multinucleated cells found in the marrow of
bone and occasionally in other parts; a giant cell. See Osteoclast.

MYGALE
Myg"a*le, n. Etym: [L., a field mouse, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of very large hairy spiders having four lungs and only
four spinnerets. They do not spin webs, but usually construct tubes
in the earth, which are often furnished with a trapdoor. The South
American bird spider (Mygale avicularia), and the crab spider, or
matoutou (M. cancerides) are among the largest species. Some of the
species are erroneously called tarantulas, as the Texas tarantula (M.
Hentzii).

MYKISS
My"kiss, n. [Russ. muikize, prob. fr. a native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A salmon (Salmo mykiss, syn. S. purpuratus) marked with black
spots and a red throat, found in most of the rivers from Alaska to
the Colorado River, and in Siberia; -- called also black-spotted
trout, cutthroat trout, and redthroat trout.

MYLODON
Myl"o*don, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of large slothlike American edentates, allied
to Megatherium.

MYLOHYOID
My`lo*hy"oid, a. Etym: [Gr. hyoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or in the region of, the lower jaw and the hyoid
apparatus; as, the mylohyoid nerve.

MYNA
My"na, n. Etym: [See Mino bird.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of Asiatic starlings of the genera
Acridotheres, Sturnopastor, Sturnia, Gracula, and allied genera. In
habits they resemble the European starlings, and like them are often
caged and taught to talk. See Hill myna, under Hill, and Mino bird.
[Spelt also mynah.]

MYNCHEN
Myn"chen, n. Etym: [AS. mynecen, fr. munec monk. See Monk.]

Defn: A nun. [Obs.]

MYNCHERY
Myn"cher*y, n.

Defn: A nunnery; -- a term still applied to the ruins of certain
nunneries in England.

MYNHEER
Myn*heer", n. Etym: [D. mijnheer.]

Defn: The Dutch equivalent of Mr. or Sir; hence, a Dutchman.

MYO-
My"o-.

Defn: A combining form of Gr. muscle; as, myograph, myochrome.

MYOCARDITIS
My`o*car*di"tis, n. Etym: [NL. see Myocardium.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the myocardium.

MYOCARDIUM
My`o*car"di*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The main substance of the muscular wall of the heart inclosed
between the epicardium and endocardium.

MYOCHROME
My"o*chrome, n. Etym: [Myo- + Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A colored albuminous substance in the serum from red-colored
muscles. It is identical with hemoglobin.

MYOCOMMA
My`o*com"ma, n.; pl. L. Myocommata, E. Myocommas. Etym: [NL. See Myo-
, and Comma.] (Anat.)

Defn: A myotome.

MYODYNAMICS
My`o*dy*nam"ics, n. Etym: [Myo- + dynamics.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The department of physiology which deals with the principles of
muscular contraction; the exercise of muscular force or contraction.

MYODYNAMIOMETER
My`o*dy*na`mi*om"e*ter, n.

Defn: A myodynamometer.

MYODYNAMOMETER
My`o*dy`na*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Myo- + E. dynamometer.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the muscular strength of man or of
other animals; a dynamometer. Dunglison.

MYOEPITHELIAL
My`o*ep`i*the"li*al, a. Etym: [Myo- + epithelial.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Derived from epithelial cells and destined to become a part of
the muscular system; -- applied to structural elements in certain
embryonic forms.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the characteristics of both muscle and epithelium; as,
the myoepithelial cells of the hydra.

MYOGALID
My*og"a*lid, n. Etym: [Myo- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Myogalodæ, a family of Insectivora, including the
desman, and allied species.

MYOGRAM
My"o*gram, n. Etym: [Myo- + -gram.] (Physiol.)

Defn: See Muscle curve, under Muscle.

MYOGRAPH
My"o*graph, n. Etym: [Myo- + -graph.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for determining and recording the different
phases, as the intensity, velocity, etc., of a muscular contraction.

MYOGRAPHIC; MYOGRAPHICAL
My`o*graph"ic, My`o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to myography.

MYOGRAPHY
My*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. myographie.]

Defn: The description of muscles, including the study of muscular
contraction by the aid of registering apparatus, as by some form of
myograph; myology.

MYOHAEMATIN
My`o*hæm"a*tin, n. Etym: [Myo- + hæmatin.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A red-colored respiratory pigment found associated with
hemoglobin in the muscle tissue of a large number of animals, both
vertebrate and invertebrate.

MYOID
My"oid, a. Etym: [Myo- + -oid.]

Defn: Composed of, or resembling, muscular fiber.

MYOLEMMA
My`o*lem"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Sarcolemma.

MYOLIN
My"o*lin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: The essential material of muscle fibers.

MYOLOGIC; MYOLOGICAL
My`o*log"ic, My`o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to myology.

MYOLOGIST
My*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in myology.

MYOLOGY
My*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Myo- + -logy: cf. F. myologie.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of muscles.

MYOMA
My*o"ma, n. Etym: [NL. See Myo-, and -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A tumor consisting of muscular tissue.

MYOMANCY
My"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by the movements of mice.

MYOMORPH
My"o*morph, n.

Defn: One of the Myomorpha.

MYOMORPHA
My`o*mor"pha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive group of rodents which includes the rats, mice,
jerboas, and many allied forms.

MYOPATHIA
My`o*pa*thi"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Any affection of the muscles or muscular system.

MYOPATHIC
My`o*path"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to myopathia.

MYOPATHY
My*op"a*thy, n.

Defn: Same as Myopathia.

MYOPE
My"ope, n. Etym: [F., fr. Gr.

Defn: A person having myopy; a myops.

MYOPHAN
My"o*phan, n. Etym: [Myo- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A contractile striated layer found in the bodies and stems of
certain Infusoria.

MYOPIA
My*o"pi*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Myope.] (Med.)

Defn: Nearsightedness; shortsightedness; a condition of the eye in
which the rays from distant object are brought to a focus before they
reach the retina, and hence form an indistinct image; while the rays
from very near objects are normally converged so as to produce a
distinct image. It is corrected by the use of a concave lens.

MYOPIC
My*op"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or affected with, or characterized by, myopia;
nearsighted. Myopic astigmatism, a condition in which the eye is
affected with myopia in one meridian only.

MYOPS
My"ops, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: See Myope.

MYOPSIS
My*op"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The appearance of muscæ volitantes. See Muscæ volitantes, under
Musca.

MYOPY
My"o*py, n. Etym: [F. myopie.] (Med.)

Defn: Myopia.

MYOSIN
My"o*sin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: An albuminous body present in dead muscle, being formed in the
process of coagulation which takes place in rigor mortis; the clot
formed in the coagulation of muscle plasma. See Muscle plasma, under
Plasma.

Note: Myosin belongs to the group of globulins. It is insoluble in
water, but soluble in dilute solution of salt, and is especially
characterized by being completely precipitated by saturation of its
solutions with salt.

MYOSIS
My*o"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Long-continued contraction of the pupil of the eye.

MYOSITIC
My`o*sit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Myotic.

MYOSITIS
My`o*si"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the muscles.

MYOSOTIS
My`o*so"tis, n. Etym: [NL.; Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants. See Mouse-ear.

MYOTIC
My*ot"ic, a. Etym: [See Myosis.] (Med.)

Defn: Producing myosis, or contraction of the pupil of the eye, as
opium, calabar bean, etc.
 -- n.

Defn: A myotic agent.

MYOTOME
My"o*tome, n. Etym: [See Myotomy.] (Anat.)
(a) A muscular segment; one of the zones into which the muscles of
the trunk, especially in fishes, are divided; a myocomma.
(b) One of the embryonic muscular segments arising from the
protovertebræ; also, one of the protovertebræ themselves.
(c) The muscular system of one metamere of an articulate.

MYOTOMIC
My`o*tom"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a myotome or myotomes.

MYOTOMY
My*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [Myo- + Gr. myotomie.]

Defn: The dissection, or that part of anatomy which treats of the
dissection, of muscles.

MYRCIA
Myr"ci*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large genus of tropical American trees and shrubs, nearly
related to the true myrtles (Myrtus), from which they differ in
having very few seeds in each berry.

MYRIA-
Myr"i*a-. Etym: [Gr. Myriad.]

Defn: A prefix, esp. in the metric system, indicating ten thousand,
ten thousand times; as, myriameter.

MYRIACANTHOUS
Myr`i*a*can"thous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having numerous spines, as certain fishes.

MYRIAD
Myr"i*ad, n. Etym: [Gr. myriade.]

1. The number of ten thousand; ten thousand persons or things.

2. An immense number; a very great many; an indefinitely large
number.

MYRIAD
Myr"i*ad, a.

Defn: Consisting of a very great, but indefinite, number; as, myriad
stars.

MYRIAGRAM; MYRIAGRAMME
Myr"i*a*gram, Myr"i*a*gramme, n. Etym: [F. myriagramme. See Myria-,
and 3d Gram.]

Defn: A metric weight, consisting of ten thousand grams or ten
kilograms. It is equal to 22.046 lbs. avoirdupois.

MYRIALITER; MYRIALITRE
Myr"i*a*li`ter, Myr"i*a*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. myrialitre. See Myria-,
and Liter.]

Defn: A metric measure of capacity, containing ten thousand liters.
It is equal to 2641.7 wine gallons.

MYRIAMETER; MYRIAMETRE
Myr"i*a*me`ter, Myr"i*a*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. myriamètre. See Myria-,
and Meter.]

Defn: A metric measure of length, containing ten thousand meters. It
is equal to 6.2137 miles.

MYRIAPOD
Myr"i*a*pod, n. Etym: [Cf. F. myriapode.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Myriapoda.

MYRIAPODA
Myr`i*ap"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class, or subclass, of arthropods, related to the hexapod
insects, from which they differ in having the body made up of
numerous similar segments, nearly all of which bear true jointed
legs. They have one pair of antennæ, three pairs of mouth organs, and
numerous trachaæ, similar to those of true insects. The larvæ, when
first hatched, often have but three pairs of legs. See Centiped,
Galleyworm, Milliped.

Note: The existing Myriapoda are divided into three orders:
Chilopoda, Chilognatha or Diplopoda, and Pauropoda (see these words
in the Vocabulary). Large fossil species (very different from any
living forms) are found in the Carboniferous formation.

MYRIARCH
Myr"i*arch, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A captain or commander of ten thousand men.

MYRIARE
Myr"i*are, n. Etym: [F. See Myria-, and 2d Are.]

Defn: A measure of surface in the metric system containing ten
thousand ares, or one million square meters. It is equal to about
247.1 acres.

MYRICA
My*ri"ca, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A widely dispersed genus of shrubs and trees, usually with
aromatic foliage. It includes the bayberry or wax myrtle, the sweet
gale, and the North American sweet fern, so called.

MYRICIN
Myr"i*cin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. myricine. Prob. so called from a fancied
resemblance to the wax of the bayberry (Myrica).] (Chem.)

Defn: A silky, crystalline, waxy substance, forming the less soluble
part of beeswax, and regarded as a palmitate of a higher alcohol of
the paraffin series; -- called also myricyl alcohol.

MYRICYL
Myr"i*cyl, n. Etym: [Myricin + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical regarded as the essential residue of
myricin; -- called also melissyl.

MYRIOLOGICAL
Myr`i*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or relating to a myriologue.

MYRIOLOGIST
Myr`i*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who composes or sings a myriologue.

MYRIOLOGUE
Myr"i*o*logue, n. Etym: [F. myriologue, myriologie, NGr.

Defn: An extemporaneous funeral song, composed and sung by a woman on
the death of a friend. [Modern Greece]

MYRIOPHYLLOUS
Myr`i*oph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having an indefinitely great or countless number of leaves.

MYRIOPODA
Myr`i*op"o*da, n. pl.

Defn: See Myriapoda.

MYRIORAMA
Myr`i*o*ra"ma, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A picture made up of several smaller pictures, drawn upon
separate pieces in such a manner as to admit of combination in many
different ways, thus producing a great variety of scenes or
landscapes.

MYRIOSCOPE
Myr"i*o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: A form of kaleidoscope.

MYRISTATE
My*ris"tate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of myristic acid.

MYRISTIC
My*ris"tic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the nutmeg (Myristica).
Specifically, designating an acid found in nutmeg oil and otoba fat,
and extracted as a white crystalline waxy substance.

MYRISTIN
My*ris"tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The myristate of glycerin, -- found as a vegetable fat in
nutmeg butter, etc.

MYRISTONE
My*ris"tone, n. Etym: [Myristc + -one.] (Chem.)

Defn: The ketone of myristic acid, obtained as a white crystalline
substance.

MYRMECOPHYTE
Myr"me*co*phyte`, n. [Gr. my`rmhx, my`rmhkos, ant + fyto`n plant.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A plant that affords shelter and food to certain species of
ants which live in symbiotic relations with it. Special adaptations
for this purpose exist; thus, Acacia spadicigera has large hollows
thorns, and species of Cecropia have stem cavities. --
Myr`me*co*phyt"ic (#), a.

MYRMICINE
Myr"mi*cine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Myrmica, a genus of ants including the
small house ant (M. molesta), and many others.

MYRMIDON
Myr"mi*don, n. Etym: [L. Myrmidones, Gr.

1. One of a fierce tribe or troop who accompained Achilles, their
king, to the Trojan war.

2. A soldier or a subordinate civil officer who executes cruel orders
of a superior without protest or pity; -- sometimes applied to
bailiffs, constables, etc. Thackeray.
With unabated ardor the vindictive man of law and his myrmidons
pressed forward. W. H. Ainsworth.

MYRMIDONIAN
Myr`mi*do"ni*an, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or like, myrmidons. Pope.

MYRMOTHERINE
Myr`mo*the"rine, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feeding upon ants; -- said of certain birds.

MYROBALAN; MYROBOLAN
My*rob"a*lan, My*rob"o*lan, n. Etym: [L. myrobalanum the fruit of a
palm tree from which a balsam was made, Gr. myrobolan.]

Defn: A dried astringent fruit much resembling a prune. It contains
tannin, and was formerly used in medicine, but is now chiefly used in
tanning and dyeing. Myrobolans are produced by various species of
Terminalia of the East Indies, and of Spondias of South America.

MYRONIC
My*ron"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, mustard; -- used specifically
to designate a glucoside called myronic acid, found in mustard seed.

MYROPOLIST
My*rop"o*list, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who sells unguents or perfumery. [Obs.] Jonhson.

MYROSIN
Myr"o*sin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A ferment, resembling diastase, found in mustard seeds.

MYROXYLON
My*rox"y*lon, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of leguminous trees of tropical America, the different
species of which yield balsamic products, among which are balsam of
Peru, and balsam of Tolu. The species were formerly referred to
Myrospermum.

MYRRH
Myrrh, n. Etym: [OE. mirre, OF. mirre, F. myrrhe, L. myrrha, murra,
Gr. murr bitter, also myrrh, Heb. mar bitter.]

Defn: A gum resin, usually of a yellowish brown or amber color, of an
aromatic odor, and a bitter, slightly pungent taste. It is valued for
its odor and for its medicinal properties. It exuds from the bark of
a shrub of Abyssinia and Arabia, the Balsamodendron Myrrha. The myrrh
of the Bible is supposed to have been partly the gum above named, and
partly the exudation of species of Cistus, or rockrose. False myrrh.
See the Note under Bdellium.

MYRRHIC
Myr"rhic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, myrrh.

MYRRHINE
Myr"rhine, a.

Defn: Murrhine.

MYRTACEOUS
Myr*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. myrtaceus.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a large and important natural
order of trees and shrubs (Myrtaceæ), of which the myrtle is the
type. It includes the genera Eucalyptus, Pimenta, Lechythis, and
about seventy more.

MYRTIFORM
Myr"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. myrtus myrtle + -form: cf. F. myrtiforme.]

Defn: Resembling myrtle or myrtle berries; having the form of a
myrtle leaf.

MYRTLE
Myr"tle, n. Etym: [F. myrtil bilberry, prop., a little myrtle, from
myrte myrtle, L. myrtus, murtus, Gr. m.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of the genus Myrtus, especially Myrtus communis. The
common myrtle has a shrubby, upright stem, eight or ten feet high.
Its branches form a close, full head, thickly covered with ovate or
lanceolate evergreen leaves. It has solitary axillary white or rosy
flowers, followed by black several-seeded berries. The ancients
considered it sacred to Venus. The flowers, leaves, and berries are
used variously in perfumery and as a condiment, and the beautifully
mottled wood is used in turning.

Note: The name is also popularly but wrongly applied in America to
two creeping plants, the blue-flowered periwinkle and the yellow-
flowered moneywort. In the West Indies several myrtaceous shrubs are
called myrtle. Bog myrtle, the sweet gale.
 -- Crape myrtle. See under Crape.
 -- Myrtle warbler (Zoöl.), a North American wood warbler (Dendroica
coronata); -- called also myrtle bird, yellow-rumped warbler, and
yellow-crowned warbler.
 -- Myrtle wax. (Bot.) See Bayberry tallow, under Bayberry.
 -- Sand myrtle, a low, branching evergreen shrub (Leiophyllum
buxifolium), growing in New Jersey and southward.
 -- Wax myrtle (Myrica cerifera). See Bayberry.

MYSELF
My*self", pron.; pl. Ourselves (.

Defn: I or me in person; -- used for emphasis, my own self or person;
as I myself will do it; I have done it myself; -- used also instead
of me, as the object of the first person of a reflexive verb, without
emphasis; as, I will defend myself.

MYSELVEN
My*selv"en, pron.

Defn: Myself. [Obs.]

MYSIS
My"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small schizopod shrimps found both in fresh and salt
water; the opossum shrimps. One species inhabits the Great Lakes of
North America, and is largely eaten by the whitefish. The marine
species form part of the food of right whales.

MYSTACAL
Mys"ta*cal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the upper lip, or mustache.

MYSTAGOGIC; MYSTAGOGICAL
Mys`ta*gog"ic, Mys`ta*gog"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to interpretation of mysteries or to
mystagogue; of the nature of mystagogy.

MYSTAGOGUE
Mys"ta*gogue, n. Etym: [L. mystagogus, Gr. mystagogue. See 1st
Mystery.]

1. interprets mysteries, especially of a religious kind.

2. One who keeps and shows church relics.

MYSTAGOGY
Mys"ta*go`gy, n.

Defn: The doctrines, principles, or practice of a mystagogue;
interpretation of mysteries.

MYSTERIAL
Mys*te"ri*al, a.

Defn: Mysterious. [Obs.]

MYSTERIARCH
Mys*te"ri*arch, n. Etym: [L. mysteriarches, Gr.

Defn: One presiding over mysteries. [Obs.]

MYSTERIOUS
Mys*te"ri*ous, a. Etym: [F. mystèrieux. See 1st Mystery.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to mystery; containing a mystery; difficult or
impossible to understand; obscure not revealed or explained;
enigmatical; incomprehensible.
God at last To Satan, first in sin, his doom applied, Thought in
mysterious terms. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Obscure; secret; occult; dark; mystic; cabalistic; enigmatical;
unintelligible; incomprehensible.

MYSTERIOUSLY
Mys*te"ri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mysterious manner.

MYSTERIOUSNESS
Mys*te"ri*ous*ness, n.

1. The state or quality of being mysterious.

2. Something mysterious; a mystery. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

MYSTERIZE
Mys"ter*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mysterized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mysterizing.]

Defn: To make mysterious; to make a mystery of.

MYSTERY
Mys"ter*y, n.; pl. Mysteries. Etym: [L. mysterium, Gr. Mute, a.]

1. A profound secret; something wholly unknown, or something kept
cautiously concealed, and therefore exciting curiosity or wonder;
something which has not been or can not be explained; hence,
specifically, that which is beyond human comprehension.
We speak the wisdom of God in a mystery. 1 Cor. ii. 7.
If God should please to reveal unto us this great mystery of the
Trinity, or some other mysteries in our holy religion, we should not
be able to understand them, unless he would bestow on us some new
faculties of the mind. Swift.

2. A kind of secret religious celebration, to which none were
admitted except those who had been initiated by certain preparatory
ceremonies; -- usually plural; as, the Eleusinian mysteries.

3. pl.

Defn: The consecrated elements in the eucharist.

4. Anything artfully made difficult; an enigma.

MYSTERY
Mys"ter*y, n.; pl. Mysteries. Etym: [OE. mistere, OF. mestier, F.
métier, L. ministerium. See Ministry.]

1. A trade; a handicraft; hence, any business with which one is
usually occupied.
Fie upon him, he will discredit our mystery. Shak.
And that which is the noblest mystery Brings to reproach and common
infamy. Spenser.

2. A dramatic representation of a Scriptural subject, often some
event in the life of Christ; a dramatic composition of this
character; as, the Chester Mysteries, consisting of dramas acted by
various craft associations in that city in the early part of the 14th
century.
"Mystery plays," so called because acted by craftsmen. Skeat.

MYSTIC; MYSTICAL
Mys"tic, Mys"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. mysticus, Gr. mystique. See 1st
Mystery, Misty.]

1. Remote from or beyond human comprehension; baffling human
understanding; unknowable; obscure; mysterious.
Heaven's numerous hierarchy span The mystic gulf from God to man.
Emerson.
God hath revealed a way mystical and supernatural. Hooker.

2. Importing or implying mysticism; involving some secret meaning;
allegorical; emblematical; as, a mystic dance; mystic Babylon.
Thus, then, did the spirit of unity and meekness inspire every joint
and sinew of the mystical body. Milton.
-- Mys"tic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Mys"tic*al*ness, n.

MYSTIC
Mys"tic, n.

Defn: One given to mysticism; one who holds mystical views,
interpretations, etc.; especially, in ecclesiastical history, one who
professed mysticism. See Mysticism.

MYSTICETE
Mys"ti*cete, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any right whale, or whalebone whale. See Cetacea.

MYSTICISM
Mys"ti*cism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mysticisme.]

1. Obscurity of doctrine.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: The doctrine of the Mystics, who professed a pure, sublime, and
wholly disinterested devotion, and maintained that they had direct
intercourse with the divine Spirit, and aquired a knowledge of God
and of spiritual things unattainable by the natural intellect, and
such as can not be analyzed or explained.

3. (Philos.)

Defn: The doctrine that the ultimate elements or principles of
knowledge or belief are gained by an act or process akin to feeling
or faith.

MYSTIFICATION
Mys`ti*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mystification.]

Defn: The act of mystifying, or the state of being mystied; also,
something designed to, or that does, mystify.
The reply of Pope seems very much as though he had been playing off a
mystification on his Grace. De Quincey.

MYSTIFICATOR
Mys"ti*fi*ca`tor, n.

Defn: One who mystifies.

MYSTIFY
Mys"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mystified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mystifying.] Etym: [F. mystifier, fr. Gr. -ficare (in comp.) to make.
See 1st Mystery, and -fy.]

1. To involve in mystery; to make obscure or difficult to understand;
as, to mystify a passage of Scripture.

2. To perplex the mind of; to puzzle; to impose upon the credulity of
; as, to mystify an opponent.
He took undue advantage of his credulity and mystified him
exceedingly. Ld. Campbell.

MYTACISM
My"ta*cism, n. Etym: [Gr. Metacism.]

Defn: Too frequent use of the letter m, or of the sound represented
by it.

MYTH
Myth, n. [Written also mythe.] Etym: [Gr. mythe.]

1. A story of great but unknown age which originally embodied a
belief regarding some fact or phenomenon of experience, and in which
often the forces of nature and of the soul are personified; an
ancient legend of a god, a hero, the origin of a race, etc.; a wonder
story of prehistoric origin; a popular fable which is, or has been,
received as historical.

2. A person or thing existing only in imagination, or whose actual
existence is not verifiable.
As for Mrs. Primmins's bones, they had been myths these twenty years.
Ld. Lytton.
Myth history, history made of, or mixed with, myths.

MYTHE
Mythe, n.

Defn: See Myth. Grote.

MYTHIC; MYTHICAL
Myth"ic, Myth"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. mythicus, Gr. Myth.]

Defn: Of or relating to myths; described in a myth; of the nature of
a myth; fabulous; imaginary; fanciful.
 -- Myth"ic*al*ly, adv.
The mythic turf where danced the nymphs. Mrs. Browning.
Hengist and Horsa, Vortigern and Rowena, Arthur and Mordred, are
mythical persons, whose very existence may be questioned. Macaulay.

MYTHOGRAPHER
My*thog"ra*pher, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A composer of fables.

MYTHOLOGER
My*thol"o*ger, n.

Defn: A mythologist.

MYTHOLOGIAN
Myth`o*lo"gi*an, n.

Defn: A mythologist.

MYTHOLOGIC; MYTHOLOGICAL
Myth`o*log"ic, Myth`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. mythologicus: cf. F.
mytholigique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to mythology or to myths; mythical; fabulous.
 -- Myth`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

MYTHOLOGIST
My*thol"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mythologiste.]

Defn: One versed in, or who writes on, mythology or myths.

MYTHOLOGIZE
My*thol"o*gize, v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. mythologiser.]

1. To relate, classify, and explain, or attempt to explain, myths; to
write upon myths.

2. To construct and propagate myths.

MYTHOLOGIZER
My*thol"o*gi`zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, mythologizes.
Imagination has always been, and still is, in a narrower sense, the
great mythologizer. Lowell.

MYTHOLOGUE
Myth"o*logue, n. Etym: [See Mythology.]

Defn: A fabulous narrative; a myth. [R.]
May we not ... consider his history of the fall as an excellent
mythologue, to account for the origin of human evil Geddes.

MYTHOLOGY
My*thol"o*gy, n.; pl. Mythologies. Etym: [F. mythologie, L.
mythologia, Gr.

1. The science which treats of myths; a treatise on myths.

2. A body of myths; esp., the collective myths which describe the
gods of a heathen people; as, the mythology of the Greeks.

MYTHOPLASM
Myth"o*plasm, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A narration of mere fable.

MYTHOPOEIC
Myth`o*poe"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Making or producing myths; giving rise to mythical narratives.
The mythopoeic fertility of the Greeks. Grote.

MYTHOPOETIC
Myth`o*po*et"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Making or producing myths or mythical tales.

MYTILOID
Myt"i*loid, a. Etym: [Mytilus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, the genus Mytilus, or family Mytilidæ.

MYTILOTOXINE
Myt`i*lo*tox"ine, n. Etym: [Mytilus + toxic.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous base (leucomaine) found in the common mussel. It
either causes paralysis of the muscles, or gives rise to convulsions,
including death by an accumulation of carbonic acid in the blood.

MYTILUS
Myt"i*lus, n. Etym: [L., a sea mussel, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine bivalve shells, including the common mussel.
See Illust. under Byssus.

MYXA
Myx"a, n. Etym: [L., a lamp nozzle, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The distal end of the mandibles of a bird.

MYXINE
Myx"ine, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marsipobranchs, including the hagfish. See Hag, 4.

MYXINOID
Myx"i*noid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, the genus Myxine.
 -- n.

Defn: A hagfish.

MYXOCYSTODEA
Myx`o*cys*to"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Infusoria including the Noctiluca. See Noctiluca.

MYXOEDEMA
Myx`o*de"ma, n. [NL. fr. Gr.  mucus + odema.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease producing a peculiar cretinoid appearance of the
face, slow speech, and dullness of intellect, and due to failure of
the functions of the thyroid gland. -- Myx`o*dem"a*tous (#), a.,
Myx`o*dem"ic (#), a.

MYXOMA
Myx*o"ma, n.; pl. Myxomata. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A tumor made up of a gelatinous tissue resembling that found in
the umbilical cord.

MYXOMYCETES
Myx`o*my*ce"tes, n. pl. [NL.; Gr.  mucus, slime + myceles.] (Bot.)

Defn: A class of peculiar organisms, the slime molds, formerly
regarded as animals (Mycetozoa), but now generally thought to be
plants and often separated as a distinct phylum (Myxophyta). They are
found on damp earth and decaying vegetable matter, and consist of
naked masses of protoplasm, often of considerable size, which creep
very slowly  over the surface and ingest solid food. --
Myx`o*my*ce"tous (#), a.

MYXOPHYTA
Myx*oph"y*ta, n. pl. [NL.; Gr.  mucus, slime +  plant.] (Bot.)

Defn: A phylum of the vegetable kingdom consisting of the class
Myxomycetes. By some botanists it is not separated from the
Thallophyta.

MYXOPOD
Myx"o*pod, n. Etym: [Gr. -pod.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A rhizopod or moneran. Also used adjectively; as, a myxopod
state.

MYZONTES
My*zon"tes, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Marsipobranchiata.

MYZOSTOMATA
My`zo*stom"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. my`zein to suck + sto`ma,
-atos, mouth.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of curious parasitic worms found on crinoids. The body
is short and disklike, with four pairs of suckers and five pairs of
hook-bearing parapodia on the under side.


[END]

End of Project Gutenberg's Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***

***** This file should be named 29765-8.txt or 29765-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/7/6/29765/

Produced by Graham Lawrence

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
