The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***




Produced by Graham Lawrence

[START]

Q

Defn: , the seventeenth letter of the English alphabet, has but one
sound (that of k), and is always followed by u, the two letters
together being sounded like kw, except in some words in which the u
is silent. See Guide to Pronunciation, § 249. Q is not found in
Anglo-Saxon, cw being used instead of qu; as in cwic, quick; cwen,
queen. The name (ku) is from the French ku, which is from the Latin
name of the same letter; its form is from the Latin, which derived
it, through a Greek alphabet, from the Phoenician, the ultimate
origin being Egyptian. Etymologically, q or qu is most nearly related
to a (ch, tch), p, q, and wh; as in cud, quid, L. equus, ecus, horse,
Gr. equine, hippic; L. quod which, E. what; L. aquila, E. eaqle; E.
kitchen, OE. kichene, AS. cycene, L. coquina.

QUA
Qua, conj. Etym: [L., abl. of qui who.]

Defn: In so far as; in the capacity or character of; as.
It is with Shelley's biographers qua biographers that we have to
deal. London Spectator.

QUAB
Quab, n. Etym: [Cf. D. kwab eelpout, Dan. quabbe, G. quabbe, quappe,
LG. quabbe a fat lump of flesh, and L. capito a kind of fish with a
large head, fr. caput the head, also E. squab.]

Defn: An unfledged bird; hence, something immature or unfinished.
Ford.

QUAB
Quab, v. i.

Defn: See Quob, v. i.

QUA-BIRD
Qua"-bird`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American night heron. See under Night.

QUACHA
Qua"cha, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The quagga.

QUACK
Quack, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Qvacked; p. pr. & vb. n. Quacking.] Etym:
[Of imitative origin; cf. D. kwaken, G. quacken, quaken, Icel. kvaka
to twitter.]

1. To utter a sound like the cry of a duck.

2. To make vain and loud pretensions; to boast. " To quack of
universal cures." Hudibras.

3. To act the part of a quack, or pretender.

QUACK
Quack, n.

1. The cry of the duck, or a sound in imitation of it; a hoarse,
quacking noise. Chaucer.

2. Etym: [Cf. Quacksalver.]

Defn: A boastful pretender to medical skill; an empiric; an ignorant
practitioner.

3. Hence, one who boastfully pretends to skill or knowledge of any
kind not possessed; a charlatan.
Quacks political; quacks scientific, academical. Carlyle.

QUACK
Quack, a.

Defn: Pertaining to or characterized by, boasting and pretension;
used by quacks; pretending to cure diseases; as, a quack medicine; a
quack doctor.

QUACKERY
Quack"er*y, n.; pl. Quackeries (.

Defn: The acts, arts, or boastful pretensions of a quack; false
pretensions to any art; empiricism. Carlyle.

QUACK GRASS
Quack" grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: See Quitch grass.

QUACKISH
Quack"ish, a.

Defn: Like a quack; boasting; characterized by quackery. Burke.

QUACKISM
Quack"ism, n.

Defn: Quackery. Carlyle.

QUACKLE
Quac"kle, v. i. & t. [imp. & p. p. Quackled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Quackling.] Etym: [Cf.Querken.]

Defn: To suffocate; to choke. [Prov. Eng.]

QUACKSALVER
Quack"sal*ver, n. Etym: [D. kwakzalver; cf. kwakzalven to quack or
boast of one's salves. See Quack, Salve, n.]

Defn: One who boasts of his skill in medicines and salves, or of the
efficacy of his prescriptions; a charlatan; a quack; a mountebank.
[Obs.] Burton.

QUAD; QUADE
Quad, Quade, a. Etym: [Akin to AS. cwæd, cwead, dung, evil, G. kot,
dung, OHG. quat.]

Defn: Evil; bad; baffling; as, a quade wind. [Obs.]
Sooth play, quad play, as the Fleming saith. Chaucer.

QUAD
Quad, n. (Print.)

Defn: A quadrat.

QUAD
Quad, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A quadrangle; hence, a prison. [Cant or Slang]

QUADRA
Quad"ra, n.; pl. Quadræ. Etym: [L., a square, the socle, a platband,
a fillet.] (Arch.)
(a) The plinth, or lowest member, of any pedestal, podium, water
table, or the like.
(b) A fillet, or listel.

QUADRABLE
Quad"ra*ble, a.Etym: [See Quadrate.] (Math.)

Defn: That may be sqyared, or reduced to an equivalent square; --
said of a surface when the area limited by a curve can be exactly
found, and expressed in a finite number of algebraic terms.

QUADRAGENARIOUS
Quad`ra*ge*na"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. quadragenarius, fr. qyadrageni
forty each.]

Defn: Consisting of forty; forty years old.

QUADRAGENE
Quad"ra*gene, n. Etym: [LL. quadragena, fr. L. quadrageni forty each,
akin to quadraginta forty.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: An indulgence of forty days, corresponding to the forty days of
ancient canonical penance.

QUADRAGESIMA
Quad`ra*ges"i*ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. quadragesimus the fortieth, fr.
quadraginta forty; akin to quattuor four. See Four.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The forty days of fast preceding Easter; Lent. Quadragesima
Sunday, the first Sunday in Lent, about forty days before Easter.

QUADRAGESIMAL
Quad`ra*ges"i*mal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. quadragésimal.]

Defn: Belonging to Lent; used in Lent; Lenten.

QUADRAGESIMALS
Quad`ra*ges"i*mals, n. pl.

Defn: Offerings formerly made to the mother church of a diocese on
Mid-Lent Sunday.

QUADRANGLE
Quad"ran`gle, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. quadrangulum; quattuor four +
angulus an angle. See Four, and Angle a corner.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A plane figure having four angles, and consequently four sides;
any figure having four angles.

2. A square or quadrangular space or inclosure, such a space or court
surrounded by buildings, esp. such a court in a college or public
school in England.

QUADRANGULAR
Quad*ran"gu*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. quadrangulaire.]

Defn: Having four angles, and consequently four sides; tetragonal.
 -- Quad*ran"gu*lar*ly, adv.

QUADRANS
Quad"rans, n.; pl. Quadrantes. Etym: [L.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A fourth part of the coin called an as. See 3d As, 2.

2. The fourth of a penny; a farthing. See Cur.

QUADRANT
Quad"rant, n. Etym: [L. quadrans, -antis, a fourth part, a fourth of
a whole, fr. quattuor four: cf. F. quadrant, cadran. See Four, and
cf. Cadrans.]

1. The fourth part; the quarter. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: The quarter of a circle, or of the circumference of a circle,
an arc of 90º, or one subtending a right angle at the center.

3. (Anal. (Geom.)

Defn: One of the four parts into which a plane is divided by the
coördinate axes. The upper right-hand part is the first quadrant; the
upper left-hand part the second; the lower left-hand part the third;
and the lower right-hand part the fourth quadrant.

4. An instrument for measuring altitudes, variously constructed and
mounted for different specific uses in astronomy, surveying, gunnery,
etc., consisting commonly of a graduated arc of 90º, with an index or
vernier, and either plain or telescopic sights, and usually having a
plumb line or spirit level for fixing the vertical or horizontal
direction. Gunner's quadrant, an instrument consisting of a graduated
limb, with a plumb line or spirit level, and an arm by which it is
applied to a cannon or mortar in adjusting it to the elevation
required for attaining the desired range.
 -- Gunter's quadrant. See Gunter's quadrant, in the Vocabulary.
Hadley's quadrant, a hand instrument used chiefly at sea to measure
the altitude of the sun or other celestial body in ascertaining the
vessel's position. It consists of a frame in the form of an octant
having a graduated scale upon its arc, and an index arm, or alidade
pivoted at its apex. Mirrors, called the index glass and the horizon
glass, are fixed one upon the index arm and the other upon one side
of the frame, respectively. When the instrument is held upright, the
index arm may be swung so that the index glass will reflect an image
of the sun upon the horizon glass, and when the reflected image of
the sun coincides, to the observer's eye, with the horizon as seen
directly through an opening at the side of the horizon glass, the
index shows the sun's altitude upon the scale; -- more properly, but
less commonly, called an octant.
 -- Quadrant of altitude, an appendage of the artificial globe,
consisting of a slip of brass of the length of a quadrant of one of
the great circles of the globe, and graduated. It may be fitted to
the meridian, and being movable round to all points of the horizon,
serves as a scale in measuring altitudes, azimuths, etc.

QUADRANTAL
Quad*ran"tal, a. Etym: [L. quadrantalis containing the fourth fourth
part of a measure.] (Geom.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a quadrant; also, included in the fourth
part of a circle; as, quadrantal space. Quadrantal triangle, a
spherical triangle having one side equal to a quadrant or arc of 90º.
 -- Quadrantal versor, a versor that expresses rotation through one
right angle.

QUADRANTAL
Quad*ran"tal, n. Etym: [L.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A cubical vessel containing a Roman cubic foot, each side being
a Roman square foot; -- used as a measure.

2. A cube. [R.]

QUADRAT
Quad"rat, n. Etym: [F. quadrat, cadrat. See Quadrate.]

1. (Print.)

Defn: A block of type metal lower than the letters, -- used in
spacing and in blank lines. [Abbrev. quad.]

2. An old instrument used for taking altitudes; -- called also
geometrical square, and line of shadows.

QUADRATE
Quad"rate, a. Etym: [L. quadratus squared, p. p. of quadrare to make
four-cornered, to make square, to square, to fit, suit, from quadrus
square, quattuor four. See Quadrant, and cf. Quadrat, Quarry an
arrow, Square.]

1. Having four equal sides, the opposite sides parallel, and four
right angles; square.
Figures, some round, some triangle, some quadrate. Foxe.

2. Produced by multiplying a number by itself; square. " Quadrate and
cubical numbers." Sir T. Browne.

3. Square; even; balanced; equal; exact. [Archaic] " A quadrate,
solid, wise man." Howell.

4. Squared; suited; correspondent. [Archaic] " A generical
description quadrate to both." Harvey. Quadrate bone (Anat.), a bone
between the base of the lower jaw and the skull in most vertebrates
below the mammals. In reptiles and birds it articulates the lower jaw
with the skull; in mammals it is represented by the malleus or incus.

QUADRATE
Quad"rate, n. Etym: [L. quadratum. See Quadrate, a.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A plane surface with four equal sides and four right angles; a
square; hence, figuratively, anything having the outline of a square.
At which command, the powers militant That stood for heaven, in
mighty quadrate joined. Milton.

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: An aspect of the heavenly bodies in which they are distant from
each other 90º, or the quarter of a circle; quartile. See the Note
under Aspect, 6.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The quadrate bone.

QUADRATE
Quad"rate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Quadrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Quadrating.] Etym: [See Quadrate, a.]

Defn: To square; to agree; to suit; to correspond; -- followed by
with. [Archaic]
The objections of these speculatists of its forms do not quadrate
with their theories. Burke.

QUADRATE
Quad"rate, v. t.

Defn: To adjust (a gun) on its carriage; also, to train (a gun) for
horizontal firing.

QUADRATIC
Quad*rat"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. quadratique.]

1. Of or pertaining to a square, or to squares; resembling a
quadrate, or square; square.

2. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Tetragonal.

3. (Alg.)

Defn: Pertaining to terms of the second degree; as, a quadratic
equation, in which the highest power of the unknown quantity is a
square.

QUADRATICS
Quad*rat"ics, n. (Alg.)

Defn: That branch of algebra which treats of quadratic equations.

QUADRATOJUGAL
Quad*ra`to*ju"gal, a. (Anat.)
(a) Of or pertaining to the quadrate and jugal bones.
(b) Of or pertaining to the quadratojugal bone.
 -- n.

Defn: The quadratojugal bone. Quadratojugal bone (Anat.), a bone at
the base of the lower jaw in many animals.

QUADRATRIX
Quad*ra"trix, n.; pl. -trixes, or -trices. Etym: [NL.] (Geom.)

Defn: A curve made use of in the quadrature of other curves; as the
quadratrix, of Dinostratus, or of Tschirnhausen.

QUADRATURE
Quad"ra*ture, n. Etym: [L. quadratura: cf. F. quadrature. See
Quadrate, a.]

1. (Math.)

Defn: The act of squaring; the finding of a square having the same
area as some given curvilinear figure; as, the quadrature of a
circle; the operation of finding an expression for the area of a
figure bounded wholly or in part by a curved line, as by a curve, two
ordinates, and the axis of abscissas.

2. A quadrate; a square. Milton.

3. (Integral Calculus)

Defn: The integral used in obtaining the area bounded by a curve;
hence, the definite integral of the product of any function of one
variable into the differential of that variable.

4. (Astron.)

Defn: The position of one heavenly body in respect to another when
distant from it 90º, or a quarter of a circle, as the moon when at an
equal distance from the points of conjunction and opposition.
Quadrature of the moon (Astron.), the position of the moon when one
half of the disk is illuminated.
 -- Quadrature of an orbit (Astron.), a point in an orbit which is at
either extremity of the latus rectum drawn through the empty focus of
the orbit.

QUADREL
Quad"rel, n. Etym: [It. quadrello, LL. quadrellus, fr. L. quadrus
square. See Quadrate, and cf. Quarrel an arrow.]

1. A square piece of turf or peat. [Prov. Eng.]

2. A square brick, tile, or the like.

QUADRENNIAL
Quad*ren"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. quadriennium a space of four years;
quattuor four + annus year; cf. L. quadriennis. See Quadrate, and
Annual.]

1. Comprising four years; as, a quadrennial period.

2. Occurring once in four years, or at the end of every four years;
as, quadrennial games.

QUADRENNIALLY
Quad*ren"ni*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Once in four years.

QUADRENNIUM
Quad*ren"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Quadrennial.]

Defn: A space or period of four years.

QUADRI-
Quad"ri-. Etym: [L., from quattuor four. See Four.]

Defn: A combining form meaning four, four times, fourfold; as,
quadricapsular, having four capsules.

QUADRIBASIC
Quad`ri*ba"sic, a. Etym: [Quadri- + basic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Tetrabasic.

QUADRIBLE
Quad"ri*ble, a.

Defn: Quadrable. [R.]

QUADRIC
Quad"ric, a. (Math.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the second degree.

QUADRIC
Quad"ric, n.
(a) (Alg.) A quantic of the second degree. See Quantic.
(b) (Geom.) A surface whose equation in three variables is of the
second degree. Spheres, spheroids, ellipsoids, paraboloids,
hyperboloids, also cones and cylinders with circular bases, are
quadrics.

QUADRICAPSULAR
Quad`ri*cap"su*lar, a. Etym: [Quadri- + capsular.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having four capsules.

QUADRICEPS
Quad"ri*ceps, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. qyattuor four + caput head.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The great extensor muscle of the knee, divided above into four
parts which unite in a single tendon at the knee.

QUADRICIPITAL
Quad`ri*cip"i*tal, n. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the quadriceps.

QUADRICORN
Quad"ri*corn, n. Etym: [See Quadricornous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any quadricornous animal.

QUADRICORNOUS
Quad`ri*cor"nous, a. Etym: [Quadri- + L. cornu horn: cf. F.
quadricorne.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having four horns, or hornlike organs; as, a quadricornous
beetle.

QUADRICOSTATE
Quad`ri*cos"tate, a. Etym: [Quadri- + costate.]

Defn: Having four ribs.

QUADRIDENTATE
Quad`ri*den"tate, a. Etym: [Quadri- + dentate.]

Defn: Having four teeth; as, a quadridentate leaf.

QUADRIENNIAL
Quad`ri*en"ni*al, a.

Defn: Same as Quadrennial.

QUADRIFARIOUS
Quad`ri*fa"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. quadrifarius fourfold, fr. quattuor
four: cf. F. quadrifarié. Cf. Multifarious.]

Defn: Arranged in four rows or ranks; as, quadrifarious leaves.
Loudon.

QUADRIFID
Quad"ri*fid, a. Etym: [L. quadrifidus; quattuor four + findere to
cleave: cf. F. quadrifide.]

Defn: Divided, or deeply cleft, into four parts; as, a quadrifid
perianth; a quadrifid leaf.

QUADRIFOIL; QUADRIFOLIATE
Quad"ri*foil, Quad`ri*fo"li*ate, a. Etym: [Quadri- + L. folium leaf.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Four-leaved; having the leaves in whorls of four.

QUADRIFURCATED
Quad`ri*fur"ca*ted, a. Etym: [Quadri- + furcated.]

Defn: Having four forks, or branches.

QUADRIGA
Quad*ri"ga, n.; pl. Quadrigæ. Etym: [L. See Quadrijugous.] (Rom.
Antiq.)

Defn: A car or chariot drawn by four horses abreast.

QUADRIGEMINAL; QUADRIGEMINOUS
Quad`ri*gem"i*nal, Quad`ri*gem"i*nous, a. Etym: [Quadri- + L. gemini
twins.]

Defn: Fourfold; having four similar parts, or two pairs of similar
parts. Quadrigeminal bodies (Anat.), two pairs of lobes, or
elevations, on the dorsal side of the midbrain of most mammals; the
optic lobes. The anterior pair are called the nates, and the
posterior the testes.

QUADRIGENARIOUS
Quad`ri*ge*na"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. quadrigeni, quadringeni, four
hundred each.]

Defn: Consisting of four hundred.

QUADRIJUGATE
Quad*rij"u*gate, a.

Defn: Same as Quadrijugous.

QUADRIJUGOUS
Quad*rij"u*gous, a. Etym: [L. quadrijugus of a team of four; quattuor
four + jugum yoke.] (Bot.)

Defn: Pinnate, with four pairs of leaflets; as, a quadrijugous leaf.

QUADRILATERAL
Quad`ri*lat"er*al, a. Etym: [L. quadrilaterus: cf. F. quadrilatère,
quadrilatéral. See Quadri- and Lateral.]

Defn: Having four sides, and consequently four angles; quadrangular.

QUADRILATERAL
Quad`ri*lat"er*al, n.

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A plane figure having four sides, and consequently four angles;
a quadrangular figure; any figure formed by four lines.

2. An area defended by four fortresses supporting each other; as, the
Venetian quadrilateral, comprising Mantua, Peschiera, Verona, and
Legnano. Complete quadrilateral (Geom.), the figure made up of the
six straight lines that can be drawn through four points, A., B, C,
I, the lines being supposed to be produced indefinitely.

QUADRILATERALNESS
Quad`ri*lat"er*al*ness, n.

Defn: The property of being quadrilateral.

QUADRILITERAL
Quad`ri*lit"er*al, a. Etym: [Quadri- + literal.]

Defn: Consisting of four letters.

QUADRILLE
Qua*drille", n. Etym: [F. quadrille, n. fem., fr. Sp. cuadrilla
meeting of four or more persons or It. quadriglia a band of soldiers,
a sort of dance; dim. fr. L. quadra a square, fr. quattuor four. See
Quadrate.]

1. A dance having five figures, in common time, four couples of
dancers being in each set.

2. The appropriate music for a quadrille.

QUADRILLE
Qua*drille", n. Etym: [F. quadrille, n. masc., cf. It. quadriglio; or
perhaps from the Spanish. See Quadrille a dance.]

Defn: A game played by four persons with forty cards, being the
remainder of an ordinary pack after the tens, nines, and eights are
discarded. Hoyle.

QUADRILLION
Quad*ril"lion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. quater four times, akin to
quattuor four, E. four; -- formed like million. See Four, Million.]

Defn: According to the French notation, which is followed also upon
the Continent and in the United States, a unit with fifteen ciphers
annexed; according to the English notation, the number produced by
involving a million to the fourth power, or the number represented by
a unit with twenty-four ciphers annexed. See the Note under
Numeration.

QUADRILOBATE; QUADRILOBED
Quad`ri*lo"bate, Quad`ri*lobed, a. Etym: [Quadri- + lobe: cf. F.
quadrilobé.]

Defn: Having four lobes; as, a quadrilobate leaf.

QUADRILOCULAR
Quad`ri*loc"u*lar, a. Etym: [Quadri- + locular: cf. F.
quadriloculaire.]

Defn: Having four cells, or cavities; as, a quadrilocular heart.

QUADRIN
Quad"rin, n. Etym: [OF., fr. L. quadrini four each, fr. quattuor
four.]

Defn: A small piece of money, in value about a farthing, or a half
cent. [Obs.]

QUADRINODAL
Quad`ri*nod"al, a. Etym: [Quadri- + nodal.] (Math.)

Defn: Possessing four nodes; as, quadrinodal curves.

QUADRINOMIAL
Quad`ri*no"mi*al, n. Etym: [Quadri- + nomial, as in binomial: cf. F.
quadrinôme.] (Alg.)

Defn: A polynomial of four terms connected by the signs plus or
minus.

QUADRINOMICAL
Quad`ri*nom"ic*al, a.

Defn: Quadrinomial.

QUADRINOMINAL
Quad`ri*nom"i*nal, a. Etym: [Quadri- + nominal.] (Alg.)

Defn: Quadrinomial. Sir W. R. Hamilton.

QUADRIPARTITE
Quad*rip"ar*tite, a. Etym: [L. quadripartitus, p. p. of quadripartire
to divide into four parts; quattuor four + partire to divide: cf. F.
quadripartite.]

Defn: Divided into four parts.

QUADRIPARTITELY
Quad*rip"ar*tite*ly, adv.

Defn: In four parts.

QUADRIPARTITION
Quad`ri*par*ti"tion, n. Etym: [L. quadripartitio: cf. F.
quadripartition.]

Defn: A division or distribution by four, or into four parts; also, a
taking the fourth part of any quantity or number.

QUADRIPENNATE
Quad`ri*pen"nate, a. Etym: [Quadri- + pennate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having four wings; -- said of insects.

QUADRIPHYLLOUS
Quad*riph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Quadri + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having four leaves; quadrifoliate.

QUADRIREME
Quad"ri*reme, n. Etym: [L. quadriremis; quattuor four + remus an oar:
cf. F. quadrirème.] (Antiq.)

Defn: A galley with four banks of oars or rowers.

QUADRISECTION
Quad`ri*sec"tion, n. Etym: [Quadri- + section.]

Defn: A subdivision into four parts.

QUADRISULCATE
Quad`ri*sul"cate, a. Etym: [Quadri + sulcate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having four hoofs; as, a quadrisulcate foot; a quadrisulcate
animal.

QUADRISYLLABIC; QUADRI-SYLLABICAL
Quad`ri*syl*lab"ic, Quad`ri-syl*lab"ic*al,

Defn: Having four syllables; of or pertaining to quadrisyllables; as,
a quadrisyllabic word.

QUADRISYLLABLE
Quad`ri*syl"la*ble, n. Etym: [Quadri- + syllable: cf. F.
quadrisyllabe.]

Defn: A word consisting of four syllables. De Quincey.

QUADRIVALENCE
Quad*riv"a*lence, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The quality or state of being quadrivalent; tetravalence.

QUADRIVALENT
Quad*riv"a*lent, a. Etym: [Quadri- + L. valens, -entis, p. pr. See
Valence.] (Chem.)

Defn: Having a valence of four; capable of combining with, being
replaced by, or compared with, four monad atoms; tetravalent; -- said
of certain atoms and radicals; thus, carbon and silicon are
quadrivalent elements.

QUADRIVALVE
Quad"ri*valve, a. Etym: [Quadri- + valve: cf. F. quadrivalve.] (Bot.)

Defn: Dehiscent into four similar parts; four-valved; as, a
quadrivalve pericarp.

QUADRIVALVE
Quad"ri*valve, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A door, shutter, or the like, having four folds.

QUADRIVALVULAR
Quad`ri*val"vu*lar, a.

Defn: Having four valves; quadrivalve.

QUADRIVIAL
Quad*riv"i*al, a. Etym: [L. quadrivium a place where four ways meet;
quattuor four + via way.]

Defn: Having four ways meeting in a point. B. Jonson.

QUADRIVIAL
Quad*riv"i*al, n.

Defn: One of the four "liberal arts" making up the quadrivium.

QUADRIVIUM
Quad*riv"i*um, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: The four "liberal arts," arithmetic, music, geometry, and
astronomy; -- so called by the schoolmen. See Trivium.

QUADROON
Quad*roon", n. Etym: [F. quarteron, or Sp. cuarteron. See Quarter a
fourth part, and cf. Quarteron.]

Defn: The offspring of a mulatto and a white person; a person
quarter-blooded. [Written also quarteron, quarteroon, and quateron.]

QUADROXIDE
Quad*rox"ide, n. Etym: [Quadri- + oxide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A tetroxide. [R.]

QUADRUMANA
Quad*ru"ma*na, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Quadrumane.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Primates comprising the apes and monkeys; --
so called because the hind foot is usually prehensile, and the great
toe opposable somewhat like a thumb. Formerly the Quadrumana were
considered an order distinct from the Bimana, which last included man
alone.

QUADRUMANE
Quad"ru*mane, n. Etym: [L. quattuor four + manus a hand: cf. F.
quadrumane.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Quadrumana.

QUADRUMANOUS
Quad*ru"ma*nous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having four hands; of or pertaining to the Quadrumana.

QUADRUPED
Quad"ru*ped, a. Etym: [L. quadrupes, -pedis; quattuor four + pes,
pedis, a foot: cf. F. quadrupède. See Quadrate, and Foot.]

Defn: Having four feet.

QUADRUPED
Quad"ru*ped, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal having four feet, as most mammals and reptiles; --
often restricted to the mammals.

QUADRUPEDAL
Quad*ru"pe*dal, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having four feet; of or pertaining to a quadruped.

QUADRUPLANE
Quad"ru*plane, n. [L. quadru-in comp. + E. plane.]

Defn: An aëroplane with four superposed main supporting surfaces.

QUADRUPLE
Quad"ru*ple, a. Etym: [L. quadruplus, from quattuor four: cf. F.
quadruple. See Quadrate, and cf. Double.]

Defn: Fourfold; as, to make quadruple restitution; a quadruple
alliance. Quadruple time (Mus.), that in which each measure is
divided into four equal parts.

QUADRUPLE
Quad"ru*ple, n. Etym: [Cf. F. quadruple, L. quadruplum.]

Defn: four times the sum or number; a fourfold amount; as, to receive
to quadruple of the amount in damages.

QUADRUPLE
Quad"ru*ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quadrupled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Quadrupling.] Etym: [L. quadruplare: cf. F. quadrupler.]

Defn: To multiply by four; to increase fourfold; to double; to double
twice. A. Smith.

QUADRUPLE
Quad"ru*ple, v. i.

Defn: To be multiplied by four; to increase fourfold; to become four
times as much.

QUADRUPLET
Quad"ru*plet, n. [From Quadruple.]

1. A collection or combination of four of a kind.

2.  pl. Four children born in the same labor.

3.  A cycle for carrying four riders, so arranged that all the reders
can assist in the propulsion.

QUADRUPLEX
Quad"ru*plex, a. Etym: [L., from quattuor four + plicare to fold.]

Defn: Fourfold; folded or doubled twice. Quadruplex system (Electric
Telegraph), a system by which four messages, two in each direction,
may be sent simultaneously over the wire.

QUADRUPLICATE
Quad*ru"pli*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quadruplicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Quadruplicating.] Etym: [L. quadruplicatus, p. p. of quadruplicare,
fr. quadrupleQuadruplex.]

Defn: To make fourfold; to double twice; to quadruple.

QUADRUPLICATE
Quad*ru"pli*cate, a. Etym: [L. quadruplicatus, p. p.]

1. Fourfold; doubled twice; four times repeated; as, a quadruplicate
ratio, or a quadruplicate proportion.

2. (Math.)

Defn: Raised to the fourth power. [R.]

QUADRUPLICATION
Quad`ru*pli*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. quadruplicatio: cf. F.
quadruplication.]

Defn: The act of making fourfold; a taking four times the simple sum
or amount.

QUADRUPLY
Quad"ru*ply, adv.

Defn: To a fourfold quantity; so as to be, or cause to be, quadruple;
as, to be quadruply recompensed.

QUAERE
Quæ"re, v. imperative. Etym: [L., imperative of quaerere to seek.]

Defn: Inquire; question; see; -- used to signify doubt or to suggest
investigation.

QUAESTOR
Quæs"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Same as Questor.

QUAFF
Quaff, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quaffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Quaffing.] Etym:
[For quach, fr. Gael. & Ir. cuach a drinking cup; cf. L. caucus a
drinking vessel. Cf. Quaigh.]

Defn: To drink with relish; to drink copiously of; to swallow in
large draughts. "Quaffed off the muscadel." Shak.
They eat, they drink, and in communion sweet Quaff immortality and
joy. Milton.

QUAFF
Quaff, v. i.

Defn: To drink largely or luxuriously.
Twelve days the gods their solemn revels keep, And quaff with
blameless Ethiops in the deep. Dryden.

QUAFFER
Quaff"er, n.

Defn: One who quaffs, or drinks largely.

QUAG
Quag, n.

Defn: A quagmire. [R.] "Crooked or straight, through quags or thorny
dells." Cowper.

QUAGGA
Quag"ga, n. Etym: [Hottentot.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South African wild ass (Equus, or Hippotigris, quagga). The
upper parts are reddish brown, becoming paler behind and behind and
beneath, with dark stripes on the face, neck, and fore part of the
body.

QUAGGY
Quag"gy, a.Etym: [See Quag, Quagmire.]

Defn: Of the nature of a quagmire; yielding or trembling under the
foot, as soft, wet earth; spongy; boggy. "O'er the watery strath, or
quaggy moss." Collins.

QUAGMIRE
Quag"mire`, n. Etym: [Quake + mire.]

Defn: Soft, wet, miry land, which shakes or yields under the feet. "A
spot surrounded by quagmires, which rendered it difficult of access."
Palfrey.

Syn.
 -- Morass; marsh; bog; swamp; fen; slough.

QUAHOG; QUAHAUG
Qua"hog, Qua"haug, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. Narragansett Indian
poquaûhock.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American market clam (Venus mercenaria). It is sold in large
quantities, and is highly valued as food. Called also round clam, and
hard clam.

Note: The name is also applied to other allied species, as Venus
Mortoni of the Gulf of Mexico.

QUAIGH; QUAICH
Quaigh, Quaich, n. Etym: [Gael.cuach. Cf. Quaff.]

Defn: A small shallow cup or drinking vessel. [Scot.] [Written also
quegh.]

QUAIL
Quail, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Qualled; p. pr. & vb. n. Qualling.] Etym:
[AS.cwelan to die, perish; akin to cwalu violent death, D. kwaal
pain, G. qual torment, OHG. quelan to suffer torment, Lith. gelti to
hurt, gela pain. Cf. Quell.]

1. To die; to perish; hence, to wither; to fade. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. To become quelled; to become cast down; to sink under trial or
apprehension of danger; to lose the spirit and power of resistance;
to lose heart; to give way; to shrink; to cower.
The atheist power shall quail, and confess his fears. I. Taylor.
Stouter hearts than a woman's have quailed in this terrible winter.
Longfellow.

Syn.
 -- to cower; flinch; shrink; quake; tremble; blench; succumb; yield.

QUAIL
Quail, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Quell.]

Defn: To cause to fail in spirit or power; to quell; to crush; to
subdue. [Obs.] Spenser.

QUAIL
Quail, v. i. Etym: [OF. coaillier, F. cailler, from L. coagulare. See
Coagulate.]

Defn: To curdle; to coagulate, as milk. [Obs.] Holland.

QUAIL
Quail, n. Etym: [OF. quaille, F. caille, LL. quaquila, qualia,
qualea, of Dutch or German origin; cf. D. kwakkel, kwartel, OHG.
wahtala, G. wachtel.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any gallinaceous bird belonging to Coturnix and several allied
genera of the Old World, especially the common European quail (C.
communis), the rain quail (C. Coromandelica) of India, the stubble
quail (C. pectoralis), and the Australian swamp quail (Synoicus
australis).

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several American partridges belonging to Colinus,
Callipepla, and allied genera, especially the bobwhite (called
Virginia quail, and Maryland quail), and the California quail
(Calipepla Californica).

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of Turnix and allied genera, native
of the Old World, as the Australian painted quail (Turnix varius).
See Turnix.

4. A prostitute; -- so called because the quail was thought to be a
very amorous bird.[Obs.] Shak. Bustard quail (Zoöl.), a small Asiatic
quail-like bird of the genus Turnix, as T. taigoor, a black-breasted
species, and the hill bustard quail (T. ocellatus). See Turnix.
 -- Button quail (Zoöl.), one of several small Asiatic species of
Turnix, as T. Sykesii, which is said to be the smallest game bird of
India.
 -- Mountain quail. See under Mountain.
 -- Quail call, a call or pipe for alluring quails into a net or
within range.
 -- Quail dove (Zoöl.), any one of several American ground pigeons
belonging to Geotrygon and allied genera.
 -- Quail hawk (Zoöl.), the New Zealand sparrow hawk (Hieracidea
Novæ-Hollandiæ).
 -- Quail pipe. See Quail call, above.
 -- Quail snipe (Zoöl.), the dowitcher, or red-breasted snipe; --
called also robin snipe, and brown snipe.
 -- Sea quail (Zoöl.), the turnstone. [Local, U. S.]

QUAILY
Quail"y, n. Etym: [Cf. Quail the bird.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The upland plover. [Canadian]

QUAINT
Quaint, a. Etym: [OE. queint, queynte, coint, prudent, wise, cunning,
pretty, odd, OF. cointe cultivated, amiable, agreeable, neat, fr. L.
cognitus known, p. p. of cognoscere to know; con + noscere (for
gnoscere) to know. See Know, and cf. Acquaint, Cognition.]

1. Prudent; wise; hence, crafty; artful; wily. [Obs.]
Clerks be full subtle and full quaint. Chaucer.

2. Characterized by ingenuity or art; finely fashioned; skillfully
wrought; elegant; graceful; nice; neat. [Archaic] " The queynte
ring." " His queynte spear." Chaucer. " A shepherd young quaint."
Chapman.
Every look was coy and wondrous quaint. Spenser.
To show bow quaint an orator you are. Shak.

3. Curious and fanciful; affected; odd; whimsical; antique; archaic;
singular; unusual; as, quaint architecture; a quaint expression.
Some stroke of quaint yet simple pleasantry. Macaulay.
An old, long-faced, long-bodied servant in quaint livery. W. Irving.

Syn.
 -- Quaint, Odd, Antique. Antique is applied to that which has come
down from the ancients, or which is made to imitate some ancient work
of art. Odd implies disharmony, incongruity, or unevenness. An odd
thing or person is an exception to general rules of calculation and
procedure, or expectation and common experience. In the current use
of quaint, the two ideas of odd and antique are combined, and the
word is commonly applied to that which is pleasing by reason of both
these qualities. Thus, we speak of the quaint architecture of many
old buildings in London; or a quaint expression, uniting at once the
antique and the fanciful.

QUAINTISE
Quain"tise, n. Etym: [OF. cointise.]

1. Craft; subtlety; cunning. [Obs.] Chaucer. R. of Glouces.

2. Elegance; beauty. [Obs.] Chaucer.

QUAINTLY
Quaint"ly, adv.

Defn: In a quaint manner. Shak.

QUAINTNESS
Quaint"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being quaint. Pope.

QUAIR
Quair, n. Etym: [See 3d Quire.]

Defn: A quire; a book. [Obs.] " The king's quhair." James I. (of
Scotland).

QUAKE
Quake, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Quaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Quaking.] Etym:
[AS. cwacian; cf. G. quackeln. Cf. Quagmire.]

1. To be agitated with quick, short motions continually repeated; to
shake with fear, cold, etc.; to shudder; to tremble. Quaking for
dread." Chaucer.
She stood quaking like the partridge on which the hawk is ready to
seize. Sir P. Sidney.

2. To shake, vibrate, or quiver, either from not being solid, as
soft, wet land, or from violent convulsion of any kind; as, the earth
quakes; the mountains quake. " Over quaking bogs." Macaulay.

QUAKE
Quake, v. t. Etym: [Cf. AS. cweccan to move, shake. See Quake, v. t.]

Defn: To cause to quake. [Obs.] Shak.

QUAKE
Quake, n.

Defn: A tremulous agitation; a quick vibratory movement; a shudder; a
quivering.

QUAKER
Quak"er, n.

1. One who quakes.

2. One of a religious sect founded by George Fox, of Leicestershire,
England, about 1650, -- the members of which call themselves Friends.
They were called Quakers, originally, in derision. See Friend, n., 4.
Fox's teaching was primarily a preaching of repentance . . . The
trembling among the listening crowd caused or confirmed the name of
Quakers given to the body; men and women sometimes fell down and lay
struggling as if for life. Encyc. Brit.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) The nankeen bird.
(b) The sooty albatross.
(c) Any grasshopper or locust of the genus (Edipoda; -- so called
from the quaking noise made during flight. Quaker buttons. (Bot.) See
Nux vomica.
 -- Quaker gun, a dummy cannon made of wood or other material; -- so
called because the sect of Friends, or Quakers, hold to the doctrine,
of nonresistance.
 -- Quaker ladies (Bot.), a low American biennial plant (Houstonia
cærulea), with pretty four-lobed corollas which are pale blue with a
yellowish center; -- also called bluets, and little innocents.

QUAKERESS
Quak"er*ess, n.

Defn: A woman who is a member of the Society of Friends.

QUAKERISH
Quak"er*ish, a.

Defn: Like or pertaining to a Quaker; Quakerlike.

QUAKERISM
Quak"er*ism, n.

Defn: The peculiar character, manners, tenets, etc., of the Quakers.

QUAKERLIKE
Quak"er*like, a.

Defn: Like a Quaker.

QUAKERLY
Quak"er*ly, a.

Defn: Resembling Quakers; Quakerlike; Quakerish. Macaulay.

QUAKERY
Quak"er*y, n.

Defn: Quakerism. [Obs.] Hallywell.

QUAKETAIL
Quake"tail`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wagtail.

QUAKINESS
Quak"i"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being quaky; liability to quake.

QUAKING
Quak"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Quake, v. Quaking aspen (Bot.), an American
species of poplar (Populus tremuloides), the leaves of which tremble
in the lightest breeze. It much resembles the European aspen. See
Aspen.
 -- Quaking bog, a bog of forming peat so saturated with water that
it shakes when trodden upon.
 -- Quaking grass. (Bot.) (a) One of several grasses of the genus
Briza, having slender-stalked and pendulous ovate spikelets, which
quake and rattle in the wind. Briza maxima is the large quaking
grass; B. media and B. minor are the smaller kinds. (b) Rattlesnake
grass (Glyceria Canadensis).

QUAKINGLY
Quak"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a quaking manner; fearfully. Sir P. Sidney.

QUAKY
Quak"y, a.

Defn: Shaky, or tremulous; quaking.

QUALIFIABLE
Qual"i*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being qualified; abatable; modifiable. Barrow.

QUALIFICATION
Qual`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. qualification. See Qualify.]

1. The act of qualifying, or the condition of being qualified.

2. That which qualifies; any natural endowment, or any acquirement,
which fits a person for a place, office, or employment, or which
enables him to sustian any character with success; an enabling
quality or circumstance; requisite capacity or possession.
There is no qualification for government but virtue and wisdom,
actual or presumptive. Burke.

3. The act of limiting, or the state of being limited; that which
qualifies by limiting; modification; restriction; hence, abatement;
diminution; as, to use words without any qualification.

QUALIFICATIVE
Qual"i*fi*ca*tive, n.

Defn: That which qualifies, modifies, or restricts; a qualifying term
or statement.
How many qualificatives, correctives, and restrictives he inserteth
in this relation. Fuller.

QUALIFICATOR
Qual"i*fi*ca`tor, n. Etym: [LL.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: An officer whose business it is to examine and prepare causes
for trial in the ecclesiastical courts.

QUALIFIED
Qual"i*fied, a.

1. Fitted by accomplishments or endowments.

2. Modified; limited; as, a qualified statement. Qualified fee (Law),
a base fee, or an estate which has a qualification annexed to it, the
fee ceasing with the qualification, as a grant to A and his heirs,
tenants of the manor of Dale.
 -- Qualified indorsement (Law), an indorsement which modifies the
liability of the indorser that would result from the general
principles of law, but does not affect the negotiability of the
instrument. Story.
 -- Qualified negative (Legislation), a limited veto power, by which
the chief executive in a constitutional government may refuse assent
to bills passed by the legislative body, which bills therefore fail
to become laws unless upon a reconsideration the legislature again
passes them by a certain majority specified in the constitution, when
they become laws without the approval of the executive. Qualified
property (Law), that which depends on temporary possession, as that
in wild animals reclaimed, or as in the case of a bailment.

Syn.
 -- Competent; fit; adapted.
 -- Qualified, Competent. Competent is most commonly used with
respect to native endowments and general ability suited to the
performance of a task or duty; qualified with respect to specific
acquirements and training.

QUALIFIEDLY
Qual"i*fied`ly, adv.

Defn: In the way of qualification; with modification or
qualification.

QUALIFIEDNESS
Qual"i*fied`ness, n.

Defn: The state of being qualified.

QUALIFIER
Qual"i*fi`er

Defn: , One who, or that which, qualifies; that which modifies,
reduces, tempers or restrains.

QUALIFY
Qual"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Qualified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Qualifying.] Etym: [F. qualifier, LL. qualificare, fr. L. qualis how
constituted, as + -ficare (in comp.) to make. See Quality, and -Fy.]

1. To make such as is required; to give added or requisite qualities
to; to fit, as for a place, office, occupation, or character; to
furnish with the knowledge, skill, or other accomplishment necessary
for a purpose; to make capable, as of an employment or privilege; to
supply with legal power or capacity.
He had qualified himself for municipal office by taking the oaths to
the sovereigns in possession. Macaulay.

2. To give individual quality to; to modulate; to vary; to regulate.
It hath no larynx . . . to qualify the sound. Sir T. Browne.

3. To reduce from a general, undefined, or comprehensive form, to
particular or restricted form; to modify; to limit; to restrict; to
restrain; as, to qualify a statement, claim, or proposition.

4. Hence, to soften; to abate; to diminish; to assuage; to reduce the
strength of, as liquors.
I do not seek to quench your love's hot fire, But qualify the fire's
extreme rage. Shak.

5. To soothe; to cure; -- said of persons. [Obs.]
In short space he has them qualified. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- To fit; equip; prepare; adapt; capacitate; enable; modify;
soften; restrict; restrain; temper.

QUALIFY
Qual"i*fy, v. i.

1. To be or become qualified; to be fit, as for an office or
employment.

2. To obtain legal power or capacity by taking the oath, or complying
with the forms required, on assuming an office.

QUALITATIVE
Qual"i*ta*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. gualitativus, F. qualitatif.]

Defn: Relating to quality; having the character of quality.
 -- Qual"i*ta*tive*ly, adv. Qualitative analysis (Chem.), analysis
which merely determines the constituents of a substance without any
regard to the quantity of each ingredient; -- contrasted with
quantitative analysis.

QUALITIED
Qual"i*tied, a.

Defn: Furnished with qualities; endowed. [Obs.] "He was well
qualitied." Chapman.

QUALITY
Qual"i*ty, n.; pl. Qualities. Etym: [F. qualité, L. qualitas, fr.
qualis how constituted, as; akin to E. which. See Which.]

1. The condition of being of such and such a sort as distinguished
from others; nature or character relatively considered, as of goods;
character; sort; rank.
We lived most joyful, obtaining acquaintance with many of the city
not of the meanest quality. Bacon

2. Special or temporary character; profession; occupation; assumed or
asserted rank, part, or position.
I made that inquiry in quality of an antiquary. Gray.

3. That which makes, or helps to make, anything such as it is;
anything belonging to a subject, or predicable of it; distinguishing
property, characteristic, or attribute; peculiar power, capacity, or
virtue; distinctive trait; as, the tones of a flute differ from those
of a violin in quality; the great quality of a statesman.

Note: Qualities, in metaphysics, are primary or secondary. Primary
are those essential to the existence, and even the conception, of the
thing, as of matter or spirit Secondary are those not essential to
such a conception.

4. An acquired trait; accomplishment; acquisition.
He had those qualities of horsemanship, dancing, and fencing which
accompany a good breeding. Clarendon.

5. Superior birth or station; high rank; elevated character. "Persons
of quality." Bacon. Quality binding, a kind of worsted tape used in
Scotland for binding carpets, and the like. The quality, those of
high rank or station, as distinguished from the masses, or common
people; the nobility; the gentry.
I shall appear at the masquerade dressed up in my feathers, that the
quality may see how pretty they will look in their traveling habits.
Addison.

Syn.
 -- Property; attribute; nature; peculiarity; character; sort; rank;
disposition; temper.

QUALM
Qualm, n. Etym: [AS. cwealm death, slaughter, pestilence, akin to OS.
& OHG. qualm. See Quail to cower.]

1. Sickness; disease; pestilence; death. [Obs.]
thousand slain and not of qualm ystorve [dead]. Chaucer.

2. A sudden attack of illness, faintness, or pain; an agony. " Qualms
of heartsick agony." Milton.

3. Especially, a sudden sensation of nausea.
For who, without a qualm, hath ever looked On holy garbage, though by
Homer cooked Roscommon.

4. A prick or scruple of conscience; uneasiness of conscience;
compunction. Dryden.

QUALMISH
Qualm"ish, a.

Defn: Sick at the stomach; affected with nausea or sickly languor;
inclined to vomit. Shak.
 -- Qualm"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Qualm"ish*ness, n.

QUAMASH
Quam"ash, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Camass.

QUAMOCLIT
Quam"o*clit, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Formerly, a genus of plants including the cypress vine
(Quamoclit vulgaris, now called Ipomoea Quamoclit). The genus is now
merged in Ipomoea.

QUANDARY
Quan"da*ry, n.; pl. Quandaries. Etym: [Prob. fr. OE. wandreth
adversity, perplexity, Icel. wandræedhi difficulty, trouble, fr.
vandr difficult.]

Defn: A state of difficulty or perplexity; doubt; uncertainty.

QUANDARY
Quan"da*ry, v. t.

Defn: To bring into a state of uncertainty, perplexity, or
difficulty. [Obs.] Otway.

QUANDONG
Quan"dong, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The edible drupaceous fruit of an Australian tree (Fusanus
acuminatus) of the Sandalwood family; -- called also quandang.

QUANDY
Quan"dy, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The old squaw. [Local, U. S.]

QUANNET
Quan"net, n.

Defn: A flat file having the handle at one side, so as to be used
like a plane.

QUANT
Quant, n.

Defn: A punting pole with a broad flange near the end to prevent it
from sinking into the mud; a setting pole.

QUANTIC
Quan"tic, n. Etym: [L. quantus how much. See Quantity.] (Math.)

Defn: A homogeneous algebraic function of two or more variables, in
general containing only positive integral powers of the variables,
and called quadric, cubic, quartic, etc., according as it is of the
second, third, fourth, fifth, or a higher degree. These are further
called binary, ternary, quaternary, etc., according as they contain
two, three, four, or more variables; thus, the quantic is a binary
cubic.

QUANTIFICATION
Quan`ti*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [See Quantity.]

Defn: Modification by a reference to quantity; the introduction of
the element of quantity.
The quantification of the predicate belongs in part to Sir William
Hamilton; viz., in its extension to negative propositions. De
Quincey.

QUANTIFY
Quan"ti*fy v. t. Etym: [L. quantus now much + -fy.]

Defn: To modify or qualify with respect to quantity; to fix or
express the quantity of; to rate.

QUANTITATIVE
Quan"ti*ta*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. quantitatif.]

Defn: Relating to quantity.
 -- Quan"ti*ta*tive*ly, adv. Quantitative analysis (Chem.), analysis
which determines the amount or quantity of each ingredient of a
substance, by weight or by volume; -- contrasted with qualitative
analysis.

QUANTITIVE
Quan"ti*tive, a. Etym: [See Quantity.]

Defn: Estimable according to quantity; quantitative. Sir K. Digby.

QUANTITIVELY
Quan"ti*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to be measurable by quantity; quantitatively.

QUANTITY
Quan"ti*ty, n.; pl. Quantities. Etym: [F. quantite, L. quantitas, fr.
quantus bow great, how much, akin to quam bow, E. how, who. See Who.]

1. The attribute of being so much, and not more or less; the property
of being measurable, or capable of increase and decrease,
multiplication and division; greatness; and more concretely, that
which answers the question "How much"; measure in regard to bulk or
amount; determinate or comparative dimensions; measure; amount; bulk;
extent; size. Hence, in specific uses:
(a) (Logic) The extent or extension of a general conception, that is,
the number of species or individuals to which it may be applied;
also, its content or comprehension, that is, the number of its
constituent qualities, attributes, or relations.
(b) (Gram.) The measure of a syllable; that which determines the time
in which it is pronounced; as, the long or short quantity of a vowel
or syllable.
(c) (Mus.) The relative duration of a tone.

2. That which can be increased, diminished, or measured; especially
(Math.), anything to which mathematical processes are applicable.

Note: Quantity is discrete when it is applied to separate objects, as
in number; continuous, when the parts are connected, either in
succession, as in time, motion, etc., or in extension, as by the
dimensions of space, viz., length, breadth, and thickness.

3. A determinate or estimated amount; a sum or bulk; a certain
portion or part; sometimes, a considerable amount; a large portion,
bulk, or sum; as, a medicine taken in quantities, that is, in large
quantities.
The quantity of extensive and curious information which he had picked
up during many months of desultory, but not unprofitable, study.
Macaulay.
Quantity of estate (Law), its time of continuance, or degree of
interest, as in fee, for life, or for years. Wharton (Law Dict. ) --
Quantity of matter, in a body, its mass, as determined by its weight,
or by its momentum under a given velocity.
 -- Quantity of motion (Mech.), in a body, the relative amount of its
motion, as measured by its momentum, varying as the product of mass
and velocity.
 -- Known quantities (Math.), quantities whose values are given.
 -- Unknown quantities (Math.), quantities whose values are sought.

QUANTIVALENCE
Quan*tiv"a*lence, n. Etym: [L. quantus how much + E. valence.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Valence. [Archaic]

QUANTIVALENT
Quan*tiv"a*lent, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to quantivalence. [Archaic]

QUANTUM
Quan"tum, n.; pl. Quanta. Etym: [L., neuter of quantus how great, how
much. See Quantity,]

1. Quantity; amount. "Without authenticating . . . the quantum of the
charges." Burke.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A definite portion of a manifoldness, limited by a mark or by a
boundary. W. K. Clifford. Quantum meruit ( Etym: [L., as much as he
merited] (Law), a count in an action grounded on a promise that the
defendant would pay to the plaintiff for his service as much as he
should deserve.
 -- Quantum sufficit (, or Quantum suff. Etym: [L., as much suffices]
(Med.), a sufficient quantity.
 -- Quantum valebat ( Etym: [L., as much at it was worth] (Law), a
count in an action to recover of the defendant, for goods sold, as
much as they were worth. Blackstone.

QUAP
Quap, v. i.

Defn: To quaver. [Obs.] See Quob.

QUAQUAVERSAL
Qua`qua*ver"sal, a. Etym: [L. quaqua wheresoever, whithersoever +
versus, p. p. of vertere to turn.]

1. Turning or dipping in any or every direction.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Dipping toward all points of the compass round a center, as
beds of lava round a crater.

QUAR
Quar, n.

Defn: A quarry. [Prov. Eng.] B. Jonson.

QUARANTINE
Quar"an*tine, n. Etym: [F. quarantaine, OF. quaranteine, fr. F.
quarante forty, L. quadraginta, akin to quattuor four, and E. four:
cf. It. quarantina, quarentine. See Four, and cf. Quadragesima.]

1. A space of forty days; -- used of Lent.

2. Specifically, the term, originally of forty days, during which a
ship arriving in port, and suspected of being infected a malignant
contagious disease, is obliged to forbear all intercourse with the
shore; hence, such restraint or inhibition of intercourse; also, the
place where infected or prohibited vessels are stationed.

Note: Quarantine is now applied also to any forced stoppage of travel
or communication on account of malignant contagious disease, on land
as well as by sea.

3. (Eng. Law)

Defn: The period of forty days during which the widow had the
privilege of remaining in the mansion house of which her husband died
seized. Quarantine flag, a yellow flag hoisted at the fore of a
vessel or hung from a building, to give warning of an infectious
disease; -- called also the yellow jack, and yellow flag.

QUARANTINE
Quar`an*tine", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quarantined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Quarantining.]

Defn: To compel to remain at a distance, or in a given place, without
intercourse, when suspected of having contagious disease; to put
under, or in, quarantine.

QUARL
Quarl, n. Etym: [Cf. G. qualle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A medusa, or jellyfish. [R.]
The jellied quarl that flings At once a thousand streaming stings. J.
R. Drake.

QUARREL
Quar"rel, n. Etym: [OE. quarel, OF. quarrel, F. carreau, LL.
quadrellus, from L. quadrus square. See Quadrate, and cf. Quadrel,
Quarry an arrow, Carrel.]

1. An arrow for a crossbow; -- so named because it commonly had a
square head. [Obs.]
To shoot with arrows and quarrel. Sir J. Mandeville.
Two arblasts, . . . with windlaces and quarrels. Sir W. Scott.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Any small square or quadrangular member; as:
(a) A square of glass, esp. when set diagonally.
(b) A small opening in window tracery, of which the cusps, etc., make
the form nearly square.
(c) A square or lozenge-shaped paving tile.

3. A glazier's diamond. Simmonds.

4. A four-sided cutting tool or chisel having a diamond-shaped end.

QUARREL
Quar"rel, n. Etym: [OE. querele, OF. querele, F. querelle, fr. L.
querela, querella, a complaint, fr. queri to complain. See
Querulous.]

1. A breach of concord, amity, or obligation; a falling out; a
difference; a disagreement; an antagonism in opinion, feeling, or
conduct; esp., an angry dispute, contest, or strife; a brawl; an
altercation; as, he had a quarrel with his father about expenses.
I will bring a sword upon you that shall avenge the quarrel of my
covenant. Lev. xxvi. 25.
On open seas their quarrels they debate. Dryden.

2. Ground of objection, dislike, difference, or hostility; cause of
dispute or contest; occasion of altercation.
Herodias had a quarrel against him, and would have killed him. Mark
vi. 19.
No man hath any quarrel to me. Shak.
He thought he had a good quarrel to attack him. Holinshed.

3. Earnest desire or longing. [Obs.] Holland. To pick a quarrel. See
under Pick, v. t.

Syn.
 -- Brawl; broil; squabble; affray; feud; tumult; contest; dispute;
altercation; contention; wrangle.

QUARREL
Quar"rel, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Quarreled or Quarrelled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Quarreling or Quarrelling.]

1. To violate concord or agreement; to have a difference; to fall
out; to be or become antagonistic.
Our people quarrel with obedience. Shak.
But some defect in her Did quarrel with the noblest grace she owed.
Shak.

2. To dispute angrily, or violently; to wrangle; to scold; to
altercate; to contend; to fight.
Beasts called sociable quarrel in hunger and lust. Sir W. Temple.

3. To find fault; to cavil; as, to quarrel with one's lot.
I will not quarrel with a slight mistake. Roscommon.

QUARREL
Quar"rel, v. t.

1. To quarrel with. [R.] "I had quarelled my brother purposely." B.
Jonson.

2. To compel by a quarrel; as, to quarrel a man out of his estate or
rights.

QUARREL
Quar"rel, n. Etym: [Written also quarreller.]

Defn: One who quarrels or wrangles; one who is quarrelsome. Shak.

QUARRELET
Quar"rel*et, n.

Defn: A little quarrel. See 1st Quarrel, 2. [Obs.] "Quarrelets of
pearl [teeth]." Herrick.

QUARRELING
Quar"rel*ing, a.

Defn: Engaged in a quarrel; apt or disposed to quarrel; as,
quarreling factions; a quarreling mood.
 -- Quar"rel*ing*ly, adv.

QUARRELLOUS
Quar"rel*lous, a. Etym: [OF. querelous, F. querelleux, L. querulosus
and querulus, fr. queri to complain. See 2d Quarrel.]

Defn: Quarrelsome. [Obs.] [Written also quarrellous.] Shak.

QUARRELSOME
Quar"rel*some, a.

Defn: Apt or disposed to quarrel; given to brawls and contention;
easily irritated or provoked to contest; irascible; choleric.

Syn.
 -- Pugnacious; irritable; irascible; brawling; choleric; fiery;
petulant.
 -- Quar"rel*some*ly, adv.
 -- Quar"rel*some*ness, n.

QUARRIED
Quar"ried, a.

Defn: Provided with prey.
Now I am bravely quarried. Beau. & Fl.

QUARRIER
Quar"ri*er, n.

Defn: A worker in a stone quarry.

QUARRY
Quar"ry, n. Etym: [OE. quarre, OF. quarré square, F. carré, from L.
quadratus square, quadrate, quadratum a square. See Quadrate, and cf.
Quarrel an arrow.]

Defn: Same as 1st Quarrel. [Obs.] Fairfax.

QUARRY
Quar"ry, a. Etym: [OF. quarré.]

Defn: Quadrate; square. [Obs.]

QUARRY
Quar"ry, n.; pl. Quarries. Etym: [OE. querre, OF. cuiriée, F. curée,
fr. cuir hide, leather, fr. L. corium; the quarry given to the dogs
being wrapped in the akin of the beast. See Cuirass.]

1.
(a) A part of the entrails of the beast taken, given to the hounds.
(b) A heap of game killed.

2. The object of the chase; the animal hunted for; game; especially,
the game hunted with hawks. "The stone-dead quarry." Spenser.
The wily quarry shunned the shock. Sir W. Scott.

QUARRY
Quar"ry, v. i.

Defn: To secure prey; to prey, as a vulture or harpy. L'Estrange.

QUARRY
Quar"ry, n. Etym: [OE. quarrere, OF. quariere, F. carrière, LL.
quadraria a quarry, whence squared (quadrati) stones are dug, fr.
quadratus square. See Quadrate.]

Defn: A place, cavern, or pit where stone is taken from the rock or
ledge, or dug from the earth, for building or other purposes; a stone
pit. See 5th Mine (a).

QUARRY
Quar"ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quarried; p. pr. & vb. n. Quarrying.]

Defn: To dig or take from a quarry; as, to quarry marble.

QUARRY-FACED
Quar"ry-faced`, a. (Stone Masonry)

Defn: Having a face left as it comes from the quarry and not smoothed
with the chisel or point; -- said of stones.

QUARRY-MAN
Quar"ry-man, n.; pl. Quarrymen (.

Defn: A man who is engaged in quarrying stones; a quarrier.

QUART
Quart, n. Etym: [F. quart, n. masc., fr. L. quartus the fourth, akin
to quattuor four. See Four, and cf. 2d Carte, Quarto.]

Defn: The fourth part; a quarter; hence, a region of the earth.
[Obs.]
Camber did possess the western quart. Spenser.

QUART
Quart, n. Etym: [F. quarte, n. fem., fr. quart fourth. See Quart a
quarter.]

1. A measure of capacity, both in dry and in liquid measure; the
fourth part of a gallon; the eighth part of a peck; two pints.

Note: In imperial measure, a quart is forty English fluid ounces; in
wine measure, it is thirty-two American fluid ounces. The United
States dry quart contains 67.20 cubic inches, the fluid quart 57.75.
The English quart contains 69.32 cubic inches.

2. A vessel or measure containing a quart.

QUART
Quart, n. Etym: [See Quart a quarter.]

Defn: In cards, four successive cards of the same suit. Cf. Tierce,
4. Hoyle.

QUARTAN
Quar"tan, a. Etym: [F. quartain, in fièvre quartaine, L. quartanus,
fr. quartus the fourth. See Quart.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the fourth; occurring every fourth day,
reckoning inclusively; as, a quartan ague, or fever.

QUARTAN
Quar"tan, n.

1. (Med.)

Defn: An intermittent fever which returns every fourth day, reckoning
inclusively, that is, one in which the interval between paroxysms is
two days.

2. A measure, the fourth part of some other measure.

QUARTANE
Quar"tane, n. Etym: [L. quartus the fourth.] (Chem.)

Defn: Butane, each molecule of which has four carbon atoms.

QUARTATION
Quar*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. quartus the fourth: cf. F. quartation. So
called because usually enough silver is added to make the amount of
gold in the alloyed button about one fourth.] (Chem. & Assaying)

Defn: The act, process, or result (in the process of parting) of
alloying a button of nearly pure gold with enough silver to reduce
the fineness so as to allow acids to attack and remove all metals
except the gold; -- called also inquartation. Compare Parting.

QUARTE
Quarte, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Same as 2d Carte.

QUARTENE
Quar"tene, n. Etym: [Ouartane + ethylene.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Butylene.

QUARTENYLIC
Quar"ten*yl"ic, a. Etym: [Quartene + -yl + -ic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acrylic acid
series, metameric with crotonic acid, and obtained as a colorless
liquid; -- so called from having four carbon atoms in the molecule.
Called also isocrotonic acid.

QUARTER
Quar"ter, n. Etym: [F. quartier, L. quartarius a fourth part, fr.
quartus the fourth. See Quart.]

1. One of four equal parts into which anything is divided, or is
regarded as divided; a fourth part or portion; as, a quarter of a
dollar, of a pound, of a yard, of an hour, etc. Hence, specifically:
(a) The fourth of a hundred-weight, being 25 or 28 pounds, according
as the hundredweight is reckoned at 100 or 112 pounds.
(b) The fourth of a ton in weight, or eight bushels of grain; as, a
quarter of wheat; also, the fourth part of a chaldron of coal.
Hutton.
(c) (Astron.) The fourth part of the moon's period, or monthly
revolution; as, the first quarter after the change or full.
(d) One limb of a quadruped with the adjacent parts; one fourth part
of the carcass of a slaughtered animal, including a leg; as, the fore
quarters; the hind quarters.
(e) That part of a boot or shoe which forms the side, from the heel
to the vamp.
(f) (Far.) That part on either side of a horse's hoof between the toe
and heel, being the side of the coffin.
(g) A term of study in a seminary, college, etc, etc.; properly, a
fourth part of the year, but often longer or shorter. (h) pl. (Mil.)

Defn: The encampment on one of the principal passages round a place
besieged, to prevent relief and intercept convoys.
(i) (Naut.) The after-part of a vessel's side, generally
corresponding in extent with the quarter-deck; also, the part of the
yardarm outside of the slings.
(j) (Her.) One of the divisions of an escutcheon when it is divided
into four portions by a horizontal and a perpendicular line meeting
in the fess point.

Note: When two coats of arms are united upon one escutcheon, as in
case of marriage, the first and fourth quarters display one shield,
the second and third the other. See Quarter, v. t., 5. (k) One of the
four parts into which the horizon is regarded as divided; a cardinal
point; a direction' principal division; a region; a territory.
Scouts each coast light-armed scour, Each quarter, to descry the
distant foe. Milton.

(l) A division of a town, city, or county; a particular district; a
locality; as, the Latin quarter in Paris.
(m) (Arch.) A small upright timber post, used in partitions; -- in
the United States more commonly called stud.
(n) (Naut.) The fourth part of the distance from one point of the
compass to another, being the fourth part of 11° 15', that is, about
2° 49'; -- called also quarter point.

2. Proper station; specific place; assigned position; special
location.
Swift to their several quarters hasted then The cumbrous elements.
Milton.
Hence, specifically:
(a) (Naut.) A station at which officers and men are posted in battle;
-- usually in the plural.
(b) Place of lodging or temporary residence; shelter; entertainment;
-- usually in the plural.
The banter turned as to what quarters each would find. W. Irving.
(c) pl. (Mil.)

Defn: A station or encampment occupied by troops; a place of lodging
for soldiers or officers; as, winter quarters.
(d) Treatment shown by an enemy; mercy; especially, the act of
sparing the life a conquered enemy; a refraining from pushing one's
advantage to extremes.
He magnified his own clemency, now they were at his mercy, to offer
them quarter for their lives. Clarendon.
Cocks and lambs . . . at the mercy of cats and wolves . . . must
never expect better quarter. L'Estrange.

3. Friendship; amity; concord. [Obs.] To keep quarter, to keep one's
proper place, and so be on good terms with another. [Obs.]
In quarter, and in terms like bride and groom. Shak.
I knew two that were competitors for the secretary's place, . . . and
yet kept good quarter between themselves. Bacon.
False quarter, a cleft in the quarter of a horse's foot.
 -- Fifth quarter, the hide and fat; -- a butcher's term.
 -- On the quarter (Naut.), in a direction between abeam and astern;
opposite, or nearly opposite, a vessel's quarter.
 -- Quarter aspect. (Astrol.) Same as Quadrate.
 -- Quarter back (Football), the player who has position next behind
center rush, and receives the ball on the snap back.
 -- Quarter badge (Naut.), an ornament on the side of a vessel near,
the stern. Mar. Dict.
 -- Quarter bill (Naut.), a list specifying the different stations to
be taken by the officers and crew in time of action, and the names of
the men assigned to each.
 -- Quarter block (Naut.), a block fitted under the quarters of a
yard on each side of the slings, through which the clew lines and
sheets are reeved. R. H. Dana, Jr.
 -- Quarter boat (Naut.), a boat hung at a vessel's quarter.
 -- Quarter cloths (Naut.), long pieces of painted canvas, used to
cover the quarter netting.
 -- Quarter day, a day regarded as terminating a quarter of the year;
hence, one on which any payment, especially rent, becomes due. In
matters influenced by United States statutes, quarter days are the
first days of January, April, July, and October. In New York and many
other places, as between landlord and tenant, they are the first days
of May, August, November, and February. The quarter days usually
recognized in England are 25th of March (Lady Day), the 24th of June
(Midsummer Day), the 29th of September (Michaelmas Day), and the 25th
of December (Christmas Day).
 -- Quarter face, in fine arts, portrait painting, etc., a face
turned away so that but one quarter is visible.
 -- Quarter gallery (Naut.), a balcony on the quarter of a ship. See
Gallery, 4.
 -- Quarter gunner (Naut.), a petty officer who assists the gunner.
 -- Quarter look, a side glance. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
 -- Quarter nettings (Naut.), hammock nettings along the quarter
rails.
 -- Quarter note (Mus.), a note equal in duration to half a minim or
a fourth of semibreve; a crochet.
 -- Quarter pieces (Naut.), several pieces of timber at the after-
part of the quarter gallery, near the taffrail. Totten.
 -- Quarter point. (Naut.) See Quarter, n., 1 (n).
 -- Quarter railing, or Quarter rails (Naut.), narrow molded planks
reaching from the top of the stern to the gangway, serving as a fence
to the quarter-deck.
 -- Quarter sessions (Eng. Law), a general court of criminal
jurisdiction held quarterly by the justices of peace in counties and
by the recorders in boroughs.
 -- Quarter square (Math.), the fourth part of the square of a
number. Tables of quarter squares have been devised to save labor in
multiplying numbers.
 -- Quarter turn, Quarter turn belt (Mach.), an arrangement in which
a belt transmits motion between two shafts which are at right angles
with each other.
 -- Quarter watch (Naut.), a subdivision of the full watch (one
fourth of the crew) on a man-of- war.
 -- To give, or show, quarter (Mil.), to accept as prisoner, on
submission in battle; to forbear to kill, as a vanquished enemy.
 -- To keep quarter. See Quarter, n., 3.

QUARTER
Quar"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quartered; p. pr. & vb. n. Quartering.]

1. To divide into four equal parts.

2. To divide; to separate into parts or regions.
Then sailors quartered heaven. Dryden.

3. To furnish with shelter or entertainment; to supply with the means
of living for a time; especially, to furnish shelter to; as, to
quarter soldiers.
They mean this night in Sardis to be quartered. Shak.

4. To furnish as a portion; to allot. [R.]
This isle . . . He quarters to his blue-haired deities. Milton.

5. (Her.)

Defn: To arrange (different coats of arms) upon one escutcheon, as
when a man inherits from both father and mother the right to bear
arms.

Note: When only two coats of arms are so combined they are arranged
in four compartments. See Quarter, n., 1 (f).

QUARTER
Quar"ter, v. i.

Defn: To lodge; to have a temporary residence.

QUARTER
Quar"ter, v. i. Etym: [F. cartayer.]

Defn: To drive a carriage so as to prevent the wheels from going into
the ruts, or so that a rut shall be between the wheels.
Every creature that met us would rely on us for quartering. De
Quincey.

QUARTERAGE
Quar"ter*age, n.

Defn: A quarterly allowance.

QUARTER-DECK
Quar"ter-deck`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: That part of the upper deck abaft the mainmast, including the
poop deck when there is one.

Note: The quarter-deck is reserved as a promenade for the officers
and (in passenger vessels) for the cabin passengers.

QUARTERED
Quar"tered, a.

1. Divided into four equal parts or quarters; separated into four
parts or regions.

2.  Furnished with quarters; provided with shelter or entertainment.

3.  Quarter-sawed; -- said of timber, commonly oak.

QUARTERFOIL
Quar"ter*foil`, n. Etym: [Quarier + foil: cf. F. quatre.] (Arch.)

Defn: An ornamental foliation having four lobes, or foils.

QUARTERHUNG
Quar"ter*hung`, a. (Ordnance)

Defn: Having trunnions the axes of which lie below the bore; -- said
of a cannon.

QUARTERING
Quar"ter*ing, a.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: Coming from a point well abaft the beam, but not directly
astern; -- said of waves or any moving object.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: At right angles, as the cranks of a locomotive, which are in
planes forming a right angle with each other.

QUARTERING
Quar"ter*ing, n.

1. A station. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu.

2. Assignment of quarters for soldiers; quarters.

3. (Her.)
(a) The division of a shield containing different coats of arms into
four or more compartments.
(b) One of the different coats of arms arranged upon an escutcheon,
denoting the descent of the bearer.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: A series of quarters, or small upright posts. See Quarter, n.,
1 (m) (Arch.) Gwilt. Quartering block, a block on which the body of a
condemned criminal was quartered. Macaulay.

QUARTERLY
Quar"ter*ly, a.

1. Containing, or consisting of, a fourth part; as, quarterly
seasons.

2. Recurring during, or at the end of, each quarter; as, quarterly
payments of rent; a quarterly meeting.

QUARTERLY
Quar"ter*ly, n.; pl. Quarterlies (.

Defn: A periodical work published once a quarter, or four times in a
year.

QUARTERLY
Quar"ter*ly, adv.

1. By quarters; once in a quarter of a year; as, the returns are made
quarterly.

2. (Her.)

Defn: In quarters, or quarterings; as, to bear arms quarterly; in
four or more parts; -- said of a shield thus divided by lines drawn
through it at right angles.

QUARTERMASTER
Quar"ter*mas`ter, n. Etym: [Quarter + master: cf. F. quartier-
maître.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: An officer whose duty is to provide quarters, provisions,
storage, clothing, fuel, stationery, and transportation for a
regiment or other body of troops, and superintend the supplies.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A petty officer who attends to the helm, binnacle, signals, and
the like, under the direction of the master. Totten. Quartermaster
general (Mil.), in the United States a staff officer, who has the
rank of brigadier general and is the chief officer in the
quartermaster's department; in England, an officer of high rank
stationed at the War Office having similar duties; also, a staff
officer, usually a general officer, accompanying each complete army
in the field.
 -- Quartermaster sergeant. See Sergeant.

QUARTERN
Quar"tern, n.Etym: [OE. quarteroun, quartron, F. quarteron, the
fourth part of a pound, or of a hundred; cf. L. quartarius a fourth
part, quarter of any measure, quartern, gill. See Quarter, and cf.
Quarteron, Quadroon.]

1. A quarter. Specifically: (a) The fourth part of a pint; a gill.
(b) The fourth part of a peck, or of a stone (14 ibs.).

2. A loaf of bread weighing about four pounds; -- called also
quartern loaf. Simmonds.

QUARTERON
Quar"ter*on, n. Etym: [F. See Quartern.]

Defn: A quarter; esp., a quarter of a pound, or a quarter of a
hundred. Piers Plowman.

QUARTERON; QUARTEROON
Quar"ter*on, Quar"ter*oon, n.

Defn: A quadroon.

QUARTERPACE
Quar"ter*pace`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A platform of a staircase where the stair turns at a right
angle only. See Halfpace.

QUARTER ROUND
Quar"ter round`. (Arch.)

Defn: An ovolo.

QUARTER-SAW
Quar"ter-saw`, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Quarter-sawed  -sawn; p. pr. &
vb. n. Quarter-sawing.]

Defn: To saw (a log) into quarters; specif., to saw into quarters and
then into boards, as by cutting alternately from each face of a
quarter, to secure lumber that will warp relatively little or show
the grain advantageously.

QUARTERSTAFF
Quar"ter*staff`, n.; pl. Quarterstaves (.

Defn: A long and stout staff formerly used as a weapon of defense and
offense; -- so called because in holding it one hand was placed in
the middle, and the other between the middle and the end.

QUARTET; QUARTETTE
Quar*tet", Quar*tette", n. Etym: [It. quartetto, dim. of quarto the
fourth, a fourth part, fr. L. quartus the fourth. See Quart.]

1. (Mus.)
(a) A composition in four parts, each performed by a single voice or
instrument.
(b) The set of four person who perform a piece of music in four
parts.

2. (Poet.)

Defn: A stanza of four lines.

QUARTIC
Quar"tic, a. Etym: [L.quartus fourth.] (Mach.)

Defn: Of the fourth degree.

QUARTIC
Quar"tic, n.
(a) (Alg.) A quantic of the fourth degree. See Quantic.
(b) (Geom.) A curve or surface whose equation is of the fourth degree
in the variables.

QUARTILE
Quar"tile, n. Etym: [F.quartile aspect, fr. L. quartus the fourth.
See Quart.] (Astrol.)

Defn: Same as Quadrate.

QUARTINE
Quar"tine, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. quartus the fourth.] (Bot.)

Defn: A supposed fourth integument of an ovule, counting from the
outside.

QUARTO
Quar"to, a. Etym: [L. in quarto in fourth, from quartus the fourth:
cf. F. (in) quarto. See Quart.]

Defn: Having four leaves to the sheet; of the form or size of a
quarto.

QUARTO
Quar"to, n.; pl. Quartos (.

Defn: Originally, a book of the size of the fourth of sheet of
printing paper; a size leaves; in present usage, a book of a square
or nearly square form, and usually of large size.

QUARTRIDGE
Quar"tridge, n.

Defn: Quarterage. [Obs.]

QUARTZ
Quartz, n. Etym: [G. quarz.] (Min.)

Defn: A form of silica, or silicon dioxide (SiO2), occurring in
hexagonal crystals, which are commonly colorless and transparent, but
sometimes also yellow, brown, purple, green, and of other colors;
also in cryptocrystalline massive forms varying in color and degree
of transparency, being sometimes opaque.

Note: The crystalline varieties include: amethyst, violet; citrine
and false topaz, pale yellow; rock crystal, transparent and colorless
or nearly so; rose quartz, rosecolored; smoky quartz, smoky brown.
The chief crypto-crystalline varieties are: agate, a chalcedony in
layers or clouded with different colors, including the onyx and
sardonyx; carnelian and sard, red or flesh-colored chalcedony;
chalcedony, nearly white, and waxy in luster; chrysoprase, an apple-
green chalcedony; flint, hornstone, basanite, or touchstone, brown to
black in color and compact in texture; heliotrope, green dotted with
red; jasper, opaque, red yellow, or brown, colored by iron or
ferruginous clay; prase, translucent and dull leek-green. Quartz is
an essential constituent of granite, and abounds in rocks of all
ages. It forms the rocks quartzite (quartz rock) and sandstone, and
makes most of the sand of the seashore.

QUARTZIFEROUS
Quartz*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Quartz + -ferous.] (Min.)

Defn: Consisting chiefly of quartz; containing quartz.

QUARTZITE
Quartz"ite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. quartzite.] (Min.)

Defn: Massive quartz occurring as a rock; a metamorphosed sandstone;
-- called also quartz rock.

QUARTZOID
Quartz"oid, n. Etym: [Quartz + -oid.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: A form of crystal common with quartz, consisting of two six-
sided pyramids, base to base.

QUARTZOSE
Quartz"ose`, a. Etym: [Cf. F. quartzeux, G. quarzig.] (Min.)

Defn: Containing, or resembling, quartz; partaking of the nature or
qualities of quartz.

QUARTZOUS
quartz"ous, a. (Min.)

Defn: Quarzose.

QUARTZY
Quartz"y, a. (Min.)

Defn: Quartzose.

QUAS
Quas, n.

Defn: A kind of beer. Same as Quass.

QUASCHI; QUASJE
Quas"chi, Quas"je, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The brown coati. See Coati.

QUASH
Quash, n.

Defn: Same as Squash.

QUASH
Quash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Quashing.] Etym:
[OF. quasser, F. casser, fr. L. cassare to annihilate, annul, fr.
cassus empty, vain, of uncertain origin. The word has been confused
with L.quassare to shake, F. casser to break, which is probably of
different origin. Cf. Cashier, v. t.] (Law)

Defn: To abate, annul, overthrow, or make void; as, to quash an
indictment. Blackstone.

QUASH
Quash, v. t. Etym: [OF. quasser, F. casser, fr. L. quassare to shake,
shatter, shiver, v. intens. fr. quatere, quassum, to shake, shatter.
Cf. Concussion, Discuss, Rescue, and also Quash to annul.]

1. To beat down, or beat in pieces; to dash forcibly; to crush.
The whales Against sharp rocks, like reeling vessels, quashed, Though
huge as mountains, are in pieces dashed. Waller.

2. To crush; to subdue; to suppress or extinguish summarily and
completely; as, to quash a rebellion.
Contrition is apt to quash or allay all worldly grief. Barrow.

QUASH
Quash, v. i.

Defn: To be shaken, or dashed about, with noise.

QUASHEE
Quash"ee, n.

Defn: A negro of the West Indies.

QUASI
Qua"si. Etym: [L.]

Defn: As if; as though; as it were; in a manner sense or degree;
having some resemblance to; qualified; -- used as an adjective, or a
prefix with a noun or an adjective; as, a quasi contract, an implied
contract, an obligation which has arisen from some act, as if from a
contract; a quasi corporation, a body that has some, but not all, of
the peculiar attributes of a corporation; a quasi argument, that
which resembles, or is used as, an argument; quasi historical,
apparently historical, seeming to be historical.

QUASI CORPORATION
Qua"si cor`po*ra"tion.

Defn: A corporation consisting of a person or body of persons
invested with some of the qualities of an artificial person, though
not expressly incorporated, esp. the official of certain municipal
divisions such as counties, schools districts, and the towns of some
States of the United States, certain church officials, as a
churchwarden, etc.

QUASIMODO
Quas`i*mo"do, n. Etym: [So called from the first words of the Latin
introit, quasi modo geniti infantes as newborn babes, 1 Pet. ii. 2.]
(R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The first Sunday after Easter; Low Sunday.

QUASS
Quass, n. Etym: [Russ. kvas'.]

Defn: A thin, sour beer, made by pouring warm water on rye or barley
meal and letting it ferment, -- much used by the Russians. [written
also quas.]

QUASSATION
Quas*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. quassatio, from quassare to shake. See
Quash to crush.]

Defn: The act of shaking, or the state of being shaken. Gayton.

QUASSIA
Quas"si*a, n. Etym: [NL. From the name of a negro, Quassy, or Quash,
who prescribed this article as a specific.]

Defn: The wood of several tropical American trees of the order
Simarubeæ, as Quassia amara, Picræna excelsa, and Simaruba amara. It
is intensely bitter, and is used in medicine and sometimes as a
substitute for hops in making beer.

QUASSIN
Quas"sin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. quassine. See Quassia.] (Chem.)

Defn: The bitter principle of quassia, extracted as a white
crystalline substance; -- formerly called quassite. [Written also
quassiin, and quassine.]

QUAT
Quat, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]
(a) A pustule. [Obs.]
(b) An annoying, worthless person. Shak.

QUAT
Quat, v. t.

Defn: To satiate; to satisfy. [Prov. Eng.]

QUATA
Qua"ta, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The coaita.

QUATCH
Quatch, a.

Defn: Squat; flat. [Obs.] Shak.

QUATER-COUSIN
Qua"ter-cous`in, n. Etym: [F. quatre four + cousin, E. cousin.]

Defn: A cousin within the first four degrees of kindred.

QUATERNARY
Qua*ter"na*ry, a. Etym: [L. quaternarius consisting of four each,
containing four, fr. quaterni four each, fr. quattuor four: cf. F.
quaternaire. See Four.]

1. Consisting of four; by fours, or in sets of four.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Later than, or subsequent to, the Tertiary; Post-tertiary; as,
the Quaternary age, or Age of man.

QUATERNARY
Qua*ter"na*ry, n. Etym: [L. numerus quaternarius: cf. F.
quaternaire.]

1. The number four. Boyle.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: The Quaternary age, era, or formation. See the Chart of
Geology.

QUATERNATE
Qua*ter"nate, a.

Defn: Composed of, or arranged in, sets of four; quaternary; as,
quaternate leaves.

QUATERNION
Qua*ter"ni*on, n. Etym: [L. quaternio, fr.quaterni four each. See
Quaternary.]

1. The number four. [Poetic]

2. A set of four parts, things, or person; four things taken
collectively; a group of four words, phrases, circumstances, facts,
or the like.
Delivered him to four quaternions of soldiers. Acts xii. 4.
Ye elements, the eldest birth Of Nature's womb, that in quaternion
run. Milton.
The triads and quaternions with which he loaded his sentences. Sir W.
Scott.

3. A word of four syllables; a quadrisyllable.

4. (Math.)

Defn: The quotient of two vectors, or of two directed right lines in
space, considered as depending on four geometrical elements, and as
expressible by an algebraic symbol of quadrinomial form.

Note: The science or calculus of quaternions is a new mathematical
method, in which the conception of a quaternion is unfolded and
symbolically expressed, and is applied to various classes of
algebraical, geometrical, and physical questions, so as to discover
theorems, and to arrive at the solution of problems. Sir W. R.
Hamilton.

QUATERNION
Qua*ter"ni*on, v. t.

Defn: To divide into quaternions, files, or companies. Milton.

QUATERNITY
Qua*ter"ni*ty, n. Etym: [LL.quaternitas, fr. L. quaterni four each:
cf. F. quaternité.]

1. The number four. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

2. The union of four in one, as of four persons; -- analogous to the
theological term trinity.

QUATERON
Qua"ter*on, n.

Defn: See 2d Quarteron.

QUATORZAIN
Qua*torz"ain, n. Etym: [See Quatorze.]

Defn: A poem of fourteen lines; a sonnet. R. H. Stoddard.

QUATORZE
Qua*torze", n. Etym: [F. quatorze fourteen, L. quattuordecim. See
Fourteen.]

Defn: The four aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens, in the game of
piquet; -- so called because quatorze counts as fourteen points.

QUATRAIN
Quat"rain, n. Etym: [F., fr. quatre four, L. quattuor, quatuor. See
Four.] (Pros.)

Defn: A stanza of four lines rhyming alternately. Dryden.

QUATRE
Qua"tre, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A card, die. or domino, having four spots, or pips

QUATREFEUILLE; QUATREFOIL
Qua"tre*feuille, Qua"tre*foil, n. Etym: [F. quatre feuilles.]

Defn: Same as Quarterfoil.

QUATTROCENTO
Quat`tro*cen"to, n. & a. [It., four hundred, used as an abbreviated
expression for the dates beginning with fourteen hundred.]

Defn: The fifteenth century, when applied to Italian art or
literature; as, the sculpture of the quattrocento; quattrocento
style. --Quat`tro*cen"tist (#), n.

QUATUOR
Quat"u*or, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. quattuor, quatuor, four. See
Quartet.] (Mus.)

Defn: A quartet; -- applied chiefly to instrumental compositions.

QUAVE
Quave, n.

Defn: See Quaver. [Obs.]

QUAVE
Quave, v. i.

Defn: To quaver. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

QUAVEMIRE
Quave"mire`, n.

Defn: See Quagmire. [Obs.]

QUAVER
Qua"ver, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Quavered; p. pr. & vb. n. Quavering.]
Etym: [OE. quaven to shake, to tremble; cf. LG. quabbeln to shake, to
be soft, of fat substances, quabbe a fat lump of flesh, a dewlap, D.
kwabbe, and E. quiver, v.]

1. To tremble; to vibrate; to shake. Sir I. Newton.

2. Especially, to shake the voice; to utter or form sound with rapid
or tremulous vibrations, as in singing; also, to trill on a musical
instrument

QUAVER
Qua"ver, v. t.

Defn: To utter with quavers.
We shall hear her quavering them . . . to some sprightly airs of the
opera. Addison.

QUAVER
Qua"ver, n.

1. A shake, or rapid and tremulous vibration, of the voice, or of an
instrument of music.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: An eighth note. See Eighth.

QUAVERER
Qua"ver*er, n.

Defn: One who quavers; a warbler.

QUAY
Quay, n. Etym: [F. quai. See Key quay.]

Defn: A mole, bank, or wharf, formed toward the sea, or at the side
of a harbor, river, or other navigable water, for convenience in
loading and unloading vessels. [Written also key.]

QUAY
Quay, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with quays.

QUAYAGE
Quay"age, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Wharfage. [Also keyage.]

QUAYD
Quayd,

Defn: p. p. of Quail. [Obs.] Spenser.

QUE
Que, n. Etym: [Cf. 3d Cue.]

Defn: A half farthing. [Obs.]

QUEACH
Queach, n. Etym: [Cf. Quick.]

Defn: A thick, bushy plot; a thicket. [Obs.] Chapman.

QUEACH
Queach, v. i. Etym: [Cf. E. quich, v. i., quick, v. i.; or AS.
cweccan to shake.]

Defn: To stir; to move. See Quick, v. i. [Obs.]

QUEACHY
Queach"y, a.

1. Yielding or trembling under the feet, as moist or boggy ground;
shaking; moving. "The queachy fens." "Godwin's queachy sands."
Drayton.

2. Like a queach; thick; bushy. [Obs.] Cockeram.

QUEAN
Quean, n. Etym: [Originally, a woman, AS. cwene; akin to OS. quena,
OHG. quena, Icel. kona, Goth qin, and AS. cwén, also to Gr. gna
goddess. Cf. Queen.]

1. A woman; a young or unmarried woman; a girl. [Obs. or Scot.]
Chaucer.

2. A low woman; a wench; a slut. "The dread of every scolding quean."
Gay.

QUEASILY
Quea"si*ly, adv.

Defn: In a queasy manner.

QUEASINESS
Quea"si*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being queasy; nausea; qualmishness; squeamishness.
Shak.

QUEASY
Quea"sy, a. Etym: [Icel. kweisa pain; cf. Norw. kveis sickness after
a debauch.]

1. Sick at the stomach; affected with nausea; inclined to vomit;
qualmish.

2. Fastidious; squeamish; delicate; easily disturbed; unsettled;
ticklish. " A queasy question." Shak.
Some seek, when queasy conscience has its qualms. Cowper.

QUEBEC GROUP
Que*bec" group`. (Geol.)

Defn: The middle of the three groups into which the rocks of the
Canadian period have been divided in the American Lower Silurian
system. See the Chart of Geology.

QUEBRACHO
Que*bra"cho, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Chilian apocynaceous tree (Aspidosperma Quebracho); also, its
bark, which is used as a febrifuge, and for dyspnoea of the lung, or
bronchial diseases; -- called also white quebracho, to distinguish it
from the red quebracho, a Mexican anacardiaceous tree (Loxopterygium
Lorentzii) whose bark is said to have similar properties. J. Smith
(Dict. Econ. Plants).

QUEBRITH
Queb"rith, n. Etym: [OE. quebrit, quibrith, Ar. kibrit.] (Alchemy)

Defn: Sulphur. [Obs.]

QUECH; QUECK
Quech, Queck, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Quick, Queach.]

Defn: A word occurring in a corrupt passage of Bacon's Essays, and
probably meaning, to stir, to move.

QUEEN
Queen, n. Etym: [OE. quen, quene, queen, quean, AS. cwen wife, queen,
woman; akin to OS. quan wife, woman, Icel. kvan wife, queen, Goth.
qens. sq. root221. See Quean.]

1. The wife of a king.

2. A woman who is the sovereign of a kingdom; a female monarch; as,
Elizabeth, queen of England; Mary, queen of Scots.
In faith, and by the heaven's quene. Chaucer.

3. A woman eminent in power or attractions; the highest of her kind;
as, a queen in society; -- also used figuratively of cities,
countries, etc. " This queen of cities." " Albion, queen of isles."
Cowper.

4. The fertile, or fully developed, female of social bees, ants, and
termites.

5
5, (Chess)

Defn: The most powerful, and except the king the most important,
piece in a set of chessmen.

6. A playing card bearing the picture of a queen; as, the queen of
spades.

Defn: A male homosexual, esp. one who is effeminate or dresses in
women's clothing. Sometimes pejorative. Queen apple. Etym: [Cf. OE.
quyne aple quince apple.] A kind of apple; a queening. "Queen apples
and red cherries." Spenser.
 -- Queen bee (Zoöl.), a female bee, especially the female of the
honeybee. See Honeybee.
 -- Queen conch (Zoöl.), a very large West Indian cameo conch (Cassis
cameo). It is much used for making cameos.
 -- Queen consort, the wife of a reigning king. Blackstone.
 -- Queen dowager, the widow of a king.
 -- Queen gold, formerly a revenue of the queen consort of England,
arising from gifts, fines, etc.
 -- Queen mother, a queen dowager who is also mother of the reigning
king or queen.
 -- Queen of May. See May queen, under May.
 -- Queen of the meadow (Bot.), a European herbaceous plant (Spiræa
Ulmaria). See Meadowsweet.
 -- Queen of the prairie (Bot.), an American herb (Spiræa lobata)
with ample clusters of pale pink flowers.
 -- Queen pigeon (Zoöl.), any one of several species of very large
and handsome crested ground pigeons of the genus Goura, native of New
Guinea and the adjacent islands. They are mostly pale blue, or ash-
blue, marked with white, and have a large occipital crest of
spatulate feathers. Called also crowned pigeon, goura, and Victoria
pigeon.
 -- Queen regent, or Queen regnant, a queen reigning in her own
right.
 -- Queen's Bench. See King's Bench.
 -- Queen's counsel, Queen's evidence. See King's counsel, King's
evidence, under King.
 -- Queen's delight (Bot.), an American plant (Stillinqia sylvatica)
of the Spurge family, having an herbaceous stem and a perennial woody
root.
 -- Queen's metal (Metal.), an alloy somewhat resembling pewter or
britannia, and consisting essentially of tin with a slight admixture
of antimony, bismuth, and lead or copper.
 -- Queen's pigeon. (Zoöl.) Same as Queen pigeon, above.
 -- Queen's ware, glazed English earthenware of a cream color.
 -- Queen's yellow (Old Chem.), a heavy yellow powder consisting of a
basic mercuric sulphate; -- formerly called turpetum minerale, or
Turbith's mineral.

QUEEN
Queen, v. i.

Defn: To act the part of a queen. Shak.

QUEEN
Queen, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Queened; p. pr. & vb. n. Queening.]
(Chess.)

Defn: To make a queen (or other piece, at the player's discretion) of
by moving it to the eighth row; as, to queen a pawn.

QUEENCRAFT
Queen"craft`, n.

Defn: Craft or skill in policy on the part of a queen.
Elizabeth showed much queencraft in procuring the votes of the
nobility. Fuller.

QUEENDOM
Queen"dom, n.

Defn: The dominion, condition, or character of a queen. Mrs.
Browning.

QUEENFISH
Queen"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A California sciænoid food fish (Seriphys politus). The back is
bluish, and the sides and belly bright silvery. Called also kingfish.

QUEENHOOD
Queen"hood, n.

Defn: The state, personality, or character of a queen; queenliness.
Tennyson.

QUEENING
Queen"ing, n. Etym: [See Queen apple.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of several kinds of apples, as summer queening, scarlet
queening, and early queening. An apple called the queening was
cultivated in England two hundred years ago.

QUEENLINESS
Queen"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being queenly; the; characteristic of a queen;
stateliness; eminence among women in attractions or power.

QUEENLY
Queen"ly, a. Etym: [AS. cwenlic feminine.]

Defn: Like, becoming, or suitable to, a queen.

QUEEN OLIVE
Queen olive. [Cf. Sp. aceituna de la Reina olive of the Queen.]
(Olive Trade)

Defn: Properly, a kind of superior olive grown in the region of
Seville, Spain. It is large size and oblong shape with a small but
long pit; it is cured when green, keeps well, and has a delicate
flavor. Loosely, any olive of similar character.

QUEEN-POST
Queen"-post`, n. [Arch.]

Defn: One of two suspending posts in a roof truss, or other framed
truss of similar form. See King-post.

QUEENSHIP
Queen"ship, n.

Defn: The state, rank, or dignity of a queen.

QUEENSLAND NUT
Queens"land nut`. (Bot.)

Defn: The nut of an Australian tree (Macadamia ternifolia). It is
about an inch in diameter, and contains a single round edible seed,
or sometimes two hemispherical seeds. So called from Queensland in
Australia.

QUEEN TRUSS
Queen" truss. (Arch.)

Defn: A truss framed with queen-posts; a queen-post truss.

QUEER
Queer, a. [Compar. Queerer; superl. Queerest.] Etym: [G. quer cross,
oblique, athwart (cf. querkopf a queer fellow), OHG. twer, twerh,
dwerah; akin to D. dvars, AS, þweorh thwart, bent, twisted, Icel.
þverr thwart, transverse, Goth. þwaìrhs angry, and perh. to L.
torqyere to twist, and E. through. Cf. Torture, Through, Thwart, a.]

1. At variance with what is usual or normal; differing in some odd
way from what is ordinary; odd; singular; strange; whimsical; as, a
queer story or act. " A queer look." W. Irving.

2. Mysterious; suspicious; questionable; as, a queer transaction.
[Colloq.]

QUEER
Queer, n.

Defn: Counterfeit money. [Slang] To shove the queer, to put
counterfeit money in circulation. [Slang]

QUEERISH
Queer"ish, a.

Defn: Rather queer; somewhat singular.

QUEERLY
Queer"ly, adv.

Defn: In a queer or odd manner.

QUEERNESS
Queer"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being queer.

QUEEST
Queest, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kvisa a kind of bird, kvistr a branch of
a tree, and E. cushat.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European ringdove (Columba palumbus); the cushat. [Written
also quist, queeze, quice, queece.] See Ringdove.

QUEGH
Quegh, n.

Defn: A drinking vessel. See Quaich.

QUEINT
Queint, a.

Defn: See Quaint. [Obs.]

QUEINT
Queint, obs.

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Quench. Chaucer.

QUEINTISE
Queint"ise, n.

Defn: See Quaintise. [Obs.] Chaucer.

QUELL
Quell, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Quelled (; p. pr. & vb. n. Quelling.]
Etym: [See Quail to cower.]

1. To die. [Obs.]
Yet he did quake and quaver, like to quell. Spenser.

2. To be subdued or abated; to yield; to abate. [R.]
Winter's wrath begins to quell. Spenser.

QUELL
Quell, v. t. Etym: [OE. quellen to kill, AS. cwellan, causative of
cwelan to die; akin to OHG. quellen to torment, Icel. kvelja. See
Quail to cower.]

1. To take the life of; to kill. [Obs.] Spenser.
The ducks cried as [if] men would them quelle. Chaucer.

2. To overpower; to subdue; to put down.
The nation obeyed the call, rallied round the sovereign, and enabled
him to quell the disaffected minority. Macaulay.
Northward marching to quell the sudden revolt. Longfellow.

3. To quiet; to allay; to pacify; to cause to yield or cease; as, to
quell grief; to quell the tumult of the soul.
Much did his words the gentle lady quell. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- to subdue; crush; overpower; reduce; put down; repress; suppress;
quiet; allay; calm; pacify.

QUELL
Quell, n.

Defn: Murder. [Obs.] Shak.

QUELLER
Quell"er, n.

1. A killer; as, Jack the Giant Queller. [Obs.] Wyclif (Mark vi. 27).

2. One who quells; one who overpowers or subdues.

QUELLIO
Quel"li*o, n. Etym: [Sp. cuello, L. collum neck.]

Defn: A ruff for the neck. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

QUELQUECHOSE
Quelque"chose`, n. Etym: [F. quelque chose something.]

Defn: A trifle; a kickshaw. Donne.

QUEME
Queme, v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. cweman, akin to cuman to come. sq.
root23.]

Defn: To please. [Obs.] Chaucer.

QUEMEFUL
Queme"ful, a.

Defn: Kindly; merciful. [Obs.] Wyclif.

QUENCH
Quench, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quenched; p. pr. & vb. n. Quenching.]
Etym: [OE. quenchen, AS. cwencan in acwencan, to extinguish utterly,
causative of cwincan, acwincan, to decrease, disappear; cf. AS.
cwinan, acwinan, to waste or dwindle away.]

1. To extinguish; to overwhelm; to make an end of; -- said of flame
and fire, of things burning, and figuratively of sensations and
emotions; as, to quench flame; to quench a candle; to quench thirst,
love, hate, etc.
Ere our blood shall quench that fire. Shak.
The supposition of the lady's death Will quench the wonder of her
infamy. Shak.

2. To cool suddenly, as heated steel, in tempering.

Syn.
 -- To extinguish; still; stifle; allay; cool; check.

QUENCH
Quench, v. i.

Defn: To become extinguished; to go out; to become calm or cool. [R.]
Dost thou think in time She will not quench! Shak.

QUENCHABLE
Quench"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being quenched.

QUENCHER
Quench"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, quenches. Hammond.

QUENCHLESS
Quench"less, a.

Defn: Incapable of being quenched; inextinguishable; as, quenchless
fire or fury. "Once kindled, quenchless evermore." Byron.

Syn.
 -- Inextinguishable; unquenchable.
 -- Quench"less*ly, adv.
 -- Quench"less*ness, n.

QUENELLE
Que*nelle", n. Etym: [F.] (Cookery)

Defn: A kind of delicate forcemeat, commonly poached and used as a
dish by itself or for garnishing.

QUENOUILLE TRAINING
Que*nouille train"ing. Etym: [F. quenouille distaff.] (Hort.)

Defn: A method of training trees or shrubs in the shape of a cone or
distaff by tying down the branches and pruning.

QUERCITANNIC
Quer`ci*tan"nic, a. Etym: [L. quercus an oak + E. tannic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a tannic acid found in oak bark
and extracted as a yellowish brown amorphous substance.

QUERCITE
Quer"cite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance, C6H7(OH)5, found in acorns, the
fruit of the oak (Quercus). It has a sweet taste, and is regarded as
a pentacid alcohol.

QUERCITIN
Quer"ci*tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow crystalline substance, occurring quite widely
distributed in the vegetable kingdom, as is apple-tree bark, horse-
chestnut leaves, etc., but originally obtained by the decomposition
of quercitrin. Called also meletin.

QUERCITRIN
Quer"cit*rin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. quercitrin. See Quercitron.] (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside extracted from the bark of the oak (Quercus) as a
bitter citron-yellow crystalline substance, used as a pigment and
called quercitron.

QUERCITRON
Quer"cit*ron, n. Etym: [F. quercitron, the name of the name of tree;
L. quercus an oak + citrus the citron tree.]

1. The yellow inner bark of the Quercus tinctoria, the American black
oak, yellow oak, dyer's oak, or quercitron oak, a large forest tree
growing from Maine to eastern Texas.

2. Quercitrin, used as a pigment. See Quercitrin.

QUERCUS
Quer"cus, n. Etym: [L., an oak.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees constituted by the oak. See Oak.

QUERELE
Quer"ele, n. Etym: [See 2d Quarrel.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A complaint to a court. See Audita Querela. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

QUERENT
Que"rent, n. Etym: [L. querens, p. pr. of queri to complain.] (O.
Eng. Law)

Defn: A complainant; a plaintiff.

QUERENT
Que"rent, n. Etym: [L. quaerens, p. pr. of quaerere to search for, to
inquire.]

Defn: An inquirer. [Obs.] Aubrey.

QUERIMONIOUS
Quer`i*mo"ni*ous, a. Etym: [L. querimonia a complaint, fr. queri to
complain. See Querulous.]

Defn: Complaining; querulous; apt to complain.
 -- Quer`i*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Quer`i*mo"ni*ous*ness, n.

QUERIMONY
Quer"i*mo*ny, n. Etym: [L. querimonia.]

Defn: A complaint or complaining. [Obs.] E. Hall.

QUERIST
Que"rist, n. Etym: [See Query.]

Defn: One who inquires, or asks questions. Swift.

QUERKEN
Querk"en, v. t. Etym: [Icel. kverk throat.

Defn: To stifle or choke. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

QUERL
Querl, v. t. Etym: [G. querlen, quirlen, to twirl, to turn round, fr.
querl, querl, a twirling stick. Cf. Twirl.]

Defn: To twirl; to turn or wind round; to coil; as, to querl a cord,
thread, or rope. [Local, U.S.]

QUERL
Querl, n.

Defn: A coil; a twirl; as, the qwerl of hair on the fore leg of a
blooded horse. [Local, U. S.]

QUERN
Quern, n. Etym: [AS. cweorn, cwyrn; akin to D. kweern, OHG. quirn,
Icel. kvern, Sw. qvarn, Dan. quærn, Goth. qairnus (in asiluqaírnus),
Lith. qìrnos, and perh. E. corn.]

Defn: A mill for grinding grain, the upper stone of which was turned
by hand; -- used before the invention of windmills and watermills.
Shak.
They made him at the querne grind. Chaucer.

QUERPO
Quer"po, n.

Defn: The inner or body garments taken together. See Cuerpo. Dryden.

QUERQUEDULE
Quer"que*dule, n. Etym: [L. querquedula.] (Zool.)
(a) A teal.
(b) The pintail duck.

QUERRY
Quer"ry, n.

Defn: A groom; an equerry. [Obs.]

QUERULENTIAL
Quer`u*len"tial, a.

Defn: Querulous. [R.]

QUERULOUS
Quer"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. querulus and querulosus, fr. queri to
complain. Cf. Cry, v., Quarrel a brawl, Quarrelous.]

1. Given to quarreling; quarrelsome. [Obs.] land.

2. Apt to find fault; habitually complaining; disposed to murmur; as,
a querulous man or people.
Enmity can hardly be more annoying that querulous, jealous, exacting
fondness. Macaulay.

3. Expressing complaint; fretful; whining; as, a querulous tone of
voice.

Syn.
 -- Complaining; bewailing; lamenting; whining; mourning; murmuring;
discontented; dissatisfied.
 -- Quer"u*lous*ly, adv.
 -- Quer"u*lous*ness, n.

QUERY
Que"ry, n.; pl. Queries. Etym: [L. quaere, imperative sing. of
quaerere, quaesitum to seek or search for, to ask, inquire. Cf.
Acquire, Conquer, Exquisite, Quest, Require.]

1. A question; an inquiry to be answered or solved.
I shall conclude with proposing only some queries, in order to a . .
. search to be made by others. Sir I. Newton.

2. A question in the mind; a doubt; as, I have a query about his
sincerity.

3. An interrogation point [] as the sign of a question or a doubt.

QUERY
Que"ry, v. i.

1. To ask questions; to make inquiry.
Each prompt to query, answer, and debate. Pope.

2. To have a doubt; as, I query if he is right.

QUERY
Que"ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Queried; p. pr. & vb. n. Querying.]

1. To put questions about; to elicit by questioning; to inquire into;
as, to query the items or the amount; to query the motive or the
fact.

2. To address questions to; to examine by questions.

3. To doubt of; to regard with incredulity.

4. To write " query" (qu., qy., or ) against, as a doubtful spelling,
or sense, in a proof. See Quære.

QUESAL
Que*sal", n (Zoöl.)

Defn: The long-tailed, or resplendent, trogon (Pharomachus mocinno,
formerly Trogon resplendens), native of Southern Mexico and Central
America. Called alsoquetzal, and golden trogon.

Note: The male is remarkable for the brilliant metallic green and
gold colors of his plumage, and for his extremely long plumes, which
often exceed three feet in length.

QUEST
Quest, n. Etym: [OF. queste, F. quête, fr. L. quaerere, quaesitum, to
seek for, to ask. Cf. Query, Question.]

1. The act of seeking, or looking after anything; attempt to find or
obtain; search; pursuit; as, to rove in quest of game, of a lost
child, of property, etc.
Upon an hard adventure yet in quest. Spenser.
Cease your quest of love. Shak.
There ended was his quest, there ceased his care. Milton.

2. Request; desire; solicitation.
Gad not abroad at every quest and call Of an untrained hope or
passion. Herbert.

3. Those who make search or inquiry, taken collectively.
The senate hath sent about three several quests to search you out.
Shak.

4. Inquest; jury of inquest.
What lawful quest have given their verdict Shak.

QUEST
Quest, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OF. quester, F. quêter. See Quest, n.]

Defn: To search for; to examine. [R.] Sir T. Herbert.

QUEST
Quest, v. i.

Defn: To go on a quest; to make a search; to go in pursuit; to beg.
[R.]
If his questing had been unsuccessful, he appeased the rage of hunger
with some scraps of broken meat. Macaulay.

QUESTANT
Quest"ant, n. Etym: [OF. questant, F. guêtant, p. pr.]

Defn: One who undertakes a quest; a seeker. [Obs.] Shak.

QUESTER
Quest"er, n.

Defn: One who seeks; a seeker. [Obs.]

QUESTION
Ques"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. quaestio, fr. quaerere, quaesitum, to
seek for, ask, inquire. See Quest, n.]

1. The act of asking; interrogation; inquiry; as, to examine by
question and answer.

2. Discussion; debate; hence, objection; dispute; doubt; as, the
story is true beyond question; he obeyed without question.
There arose a question between some of John's disciples and the Jews
about purifying. John iii. 25.
It is to be to question, whether it be lawful for Christian princes
to make an invasive war simply for the propagation of the faith.
Bacon.

3. Examination with reference to a decisive result; investigation;
specifically, a judicial or official investigation; also, examination
under torture. Blackstone.
He that was in question for the robbery. Shak. The Scottish privy
council had power to put state prisoners to the question. Macaulay.

4. That which is asked; inquiry; interrogatory; query.
But this question asked Puts me in doubt. Lives there who loves his
pain Milton.

5. Hence, a subject of investigation, examination, or debate; theme
of inquiry; matter to be inquired into; as, a delicate or doubtful
question.

6. Talk; conversation; speech; speech.[Obs.] Shak. In question, in
debate; in the course of examination or discussion; as, the matter or
point in question.
 -- Leading question. See under Leading.
 -- Out of question, unquestionably. "Out of question, 't is Maria's
hand." Shak.
 -- Out of the question. See under Out.
 -- Past question, beyond question; certainly; undoubtedly;
unquestionably.
 -- Previous question, a question put to a parliamentary assembly
upon the motion of a member, in order to ascertain whether it is the
will of the body to vote at once, without further debate, on the
subject under consideration.

Note: The form of the question is: "Shall the main question be now
put" If the vote is in the affirmative, the matter before the body
must be voted upon as it then stands, without further general debate
or the submission of new amendments. In the House of Representatives
of the United States, and generally in America, a negative decision
operates to keep the business before the body as if the motion had
not been made; but in the English Parliament, it operates to postpone
consideration for the day, and until the subject may be again
introduced. In American practice, the object of the motion is to
hasten action, and it is made by a friend of the measure. In English
practice, the object is to get rid of the subject for the time being,
and the motion is made with a purpose of voting against it. Cushing.
 -- To beg the question. See under Beg.
 -- To the question, to the point in dispute; to the real matter
under debate.

Syn.
 -- Point; topic; subject.

QUESTION
Ques"tion, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Questioned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Questioning.] Etym: [Cf. F. questionner. See Question, n.]

1. To ask questions; to inquire.
He that questioneth much shall lean much. Bacon.

2. To argue; to converse; to dispute. [Obs.]
I pray you, think you question with the Jew. Shak.

QUESTION
Ques"tion, v. t.

1. To inquire of by asking questions; to examine by interrogatories;
as, to question a witness.

2. To doubt of; to be uncertain of; to query.
And most we question what we most desire. Prior.

3. To raise a question about; to call in question; to make objection
to. "But have power and right to question thy bold entrance on this
place." Milton.

4. To talk to; to converse with.
With many holiday and lady terms he questioned me. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To ask; interrogate; catechise; doubt; controvert; dispute.
 -- Question, Inquire, Interrogate. To inquire is merely to ask for
information, and implies no authority in the one who asks. To
interrogate is to put repeated questions in a formal or systematic
fashion to elicit some particular fact or facts. To question has a
wider sense than to interrogate, and often implies an attitude of
distrust or opposition on the part of the questioner.

QUESTIONABILITY
Ques`tion*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being questionable. Stallo.

QUESTIONABLE
Ques"tion*a*ble, a.

1. Admitting of being questioned; inviting, or seeming to invite,
inquiry. [R.]
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape That I will speak to thee.
Shak.

2. Liable to question; subject to be doubted or called in question;
problematical; doubtful; suspicious.
It is questionable whether Galen ever saw the dissection of a human
body.T. Baker.

Syn.
 -- Disputable; debatable; uncertain; doubtful; problematical;
suspicious.

QUESTIONABLENESS
Ques"tion*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being questionable, doubtful, or
suspicious.

QUESTIONABLY
Ques"tion*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a questionable manner.

QUESTIONARY
Ques"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Inquiring; asking questions; testing. "Questionary epistles."
Pope.

QUESTIONARY
Ques"tion*a*ry, n.

Defn: One who makes it his business to seek after relics and carry
them about for sale.

QUESTIONER
Ques"tion*er, n.

Defn: One who asks questions; an inquirer. "Little time for idle
questioners." Tennyson.

QUESTIONIST
Ques"tion*ist, n.

1. A questioner; an inquirer. [Obs.]

2. (Eng. Univ.)

Defn: A candidate for honors or degrees who is near the time of his
examination.

QUESTIONLESS
Ques"tion*less, a.

Defn: Unquestioning; incurious. [R.]

QUESTIONLESS
Ques"tion*less, adv.

Defn: Beyond a question or doubt; doubtless; certainly.[R.] South.
What it was in the apostles' time, that, questionless, it must be
still. Milton.

QUESTIONNAIRE
Ques`tion`naire", n.; pl. -naires (F. ). [F.]

Defn: = Questionary, above.

QUESTMAN
Quest"man, n.; pl. Questmen (.

Defn: One legally empowered to make quest of certain matters, esp. of
abuses of weights and measures. Specifically:
(a) A churchwarden's assistant; a sidesman. Blount. [Obs.]
(b) A collector of parish rents. Blount. [Obs.]

QUESTMONGER
Quest"mon`ger, n.

Defn: One who lays informations, and encourages petty lawsuits.
[Obs.] Bacon.

QUESTOR
Ques"tor, n. Etym: [L. quaestor, contr. fr. quaesitor, fr. quaerere,
quaesitum, to seek for, ask: cf. F. questeur.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: An officer who had the management of the public treasure; a
receiver of taxes, tribute, etc.; treasurer of state. [Written also
quæstor.]

Note: At an early period there were also public accusers styled
questors, but the office was soon abolished.

QUESTORSHIP
Ques"tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office, or the term of office, of a questor.

QUESTRIST
Quest"rist, n. Etym: [See Quest.]

Defn: A seeker; a pursuer. [Obs.] "Hot questrists after him." Shak.

QUESTUARY
Ques"tu*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. quaestuarius, from quaestus gain, profit,
quaerere, quaesitum, to seek for, earn.]

Defn: Studious of profit. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

QUESTUARY
Ques"tu*a*ry, n.

Defn: One employed to collect profits. [R.] "The pope's questuaries."
Jer. Taylor.

QUET
Quet, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common guillemot. [Prov. Eng.]

QUEUE
Queue, n. Etym: [F. See Cue.]
(a) A tail-like appendage of hair; a pigtail.
(b) A line of persons waiting anywhere.

QUEUE
Queue, v. t.

Defn: To fasten, as hair, in a queue.

QUEY
Quey, n. Etym: [Cf. Dan. qvie.]

Defn: A heifer. [Scot.]

QUIB
Quib, n. Etym: [Cf. Quip.]

Defn: A quip; a gibe.

QUIBBLE
Quib"ble, n. Etym: [Probably fr. quib, quip, but influenced by
quillet, or quiddity.]

1. A shift or turn from the point in question; a trifling or evasive
distinction; an evasion; a cavil.
Quibbles have no place in the search after truth. I. Watts.

2. A pun; a low conceit.

QUIBBLE
Quib"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Quibbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Quibbling.]

1. To evade the point in question by artifice, play upon words,
caviling, or by raising any insignificant or impertinent question or
point; to trifle in argument or discourse; to equivocate.

2. To pun; to practice punning. Cudworth.

Syn.
 -- To cavil; shuffle; equivocate; trifle.

QUIBBLER
Quib"bler, n.

Defn: One who quibbles; a caviler; also, a punster.

QUIBBLINGLY
Quib"bling*ly, adv.

Defn: Triflingly; evasively.

QUICA
Qui"ca, n. Etym: [From the native Brazilian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small South American opossum (Didelphys quica), native of
Guiana and Brazil. It feeds upon insects, small birds, and fruit.

QUICE
Quice, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Queest.

QUICH
Quich, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Quinch.]

Defn: To stir. [Obs.]
He could not move nor quich at all. Spenser.

QUICHUAN
Qui"chuan, a.

Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, a linguistic stock of South
American Indians, including the majority of the civilized tribes of
the ancient Peruvian Empire with some wild tribes never subjugated by
the Incas. Most of these Indians are short, but heavy and strong.
They are brachycephalic and of remarkably low cranial capacity.
Nevertheless, they represent one of the highest of native American
civilizations, characterized by agricultural, military, and
administrative skill rather than by science or literature, although
they were adept potters, weavers, and goldsmiths, and preserved by
the aid of the mnemonic quipu a body of legendary lore in part
written down since the introduction of writing.

QUICK
Quick, a. [Compar. Quicker; superl. Quickest.] Etym: [As. cwic,
cwicu, cwucu, cucu, living; akin to OS. quik, D. kwik, OHG. quec,
chec, G. keck bold, lively, Icel. kvikr living, Goth. qius, Lith.
qyvas, Russ. zhivoi, L. vivus living, vivere to live, Gr. bi`os life,
Skr. jiva living, jiv to live. Cf. Biography, Vivid, Quitch grass,
Whitlow.]

1. Alive; living; animate; -- opposed to dead or inanimate.
Not fully quyke, ne fully dead they were. Chaucer.
The Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his
appearing and his kingdom. 2 Tim. iv. 1.
Man is no star, but a quick coal Of mortal fire. Herbert.

Note: In this sense the word is nearly obsolete, except in some
compounds, or in particular phrases.

2. Characterized by life or liveliness; animated; sprightly; agile;
brisk; ready. " A quick wit." Shak.

3. Speedy; hasty; swift; not slow; as, be quick
Oft he her his charge of quick return Repeated. Milton.

4. Impatient; passionate; hasty; eager; eager; sharp; unceremonious;
as, a quick temper.
The bishop was somewhat quick with them, and signified that he was
much offended. Latimer.

5. Fresh; bracing; sharp; keen.
The air is quick there, And it pierces and sharpens the stomach.
Shak.

6. Sensitive; perceptive in a high degree; ready; as, a quick ear.
"To have an open ear, a quick eye." Shak.
They say that women are so quick. Tennyson.

7. Pregnant; with child. Shak. Quick grass. (Bot.) See Quitch grass.
 -- Quick match. See under Match.
 -- Quick vein (Mining), a vein of ore which is productive, not
barren.
 -- Quick vinegar, vinegar made by allowing a weak solution of
alcohol to trickle slowly over shavings or other porous material.
 -- Quick water, quicksilver water.
 -- Quick with child, pregnant with a living child.

Syn.
 -- Speedy; expeditious; swift; rapid; hasty; prompt; ready; active;
brisk; nimble; fleet; alert; agile; lively; sprightly.

QUICK
Quick, adv.

Defn: In a quick manner; quickly; promptly; rapidly; with haste;
speedily; without delay; as, run quick; get back quick.
If we consider how very quick the actions of the mind are performed.
Locke.

QUICK
Quick, n.

1. That which is quick, or alive; a living animal or plant;
especially, the hawthorn, or other plants used in making a living
hedge.
The works . . . are curiously hedged with quick. Evelyn.

2. The life; the mortal point; a vital part; a part susceptible of
serious injury or keen feeling; the sensitive living flesh; the part
of a finger or toe to which the nail is attached; the tender
emotions; as, to cut a finger nail to the quick; to thrust a sword to
the quick, to taunt one to the quick; -- used figuratively.
This test nippeth, . . . this toucheth the quick. Latimer.
How feebly and unlike themselves they reason when they come to the
quick of the difference ! Fuller.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Quitch grass. Tennyson.

QUICK
Quick, v. t. & i. Etym: [See Quicken.]

Defn: To revive; to quicken; to be or become alive. [Obs.] Chaucer.

QUICKBEAM
Quick"beam`, n. Etym: [A. S. cwicbeám.]

Defn: See Quicken tree.

QUICKEN
Quick"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. quickened; p. pr. & vb. n. Quickening.]
Etym: [AS. cwician. See Quick, a.]

1. To make alive; to vivify; to revive or resuscitate, as from death
or an inanimate state; hence, to excite; to, stimulate; to incite.
The mistress which I serve quickens what's dead. Shak.
Like a fruitful garden without an hedge, that quickens the appetite
to enjoy so tempting a prize. South.

2. To make lively, active, or sprightly; to impart additional energy
to; to stimulate; to make quick or rapid; to hasten; to accelerate;
as, to quicken one's steps or thoughts; to quicken one's departure or
speed.

3. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: To shorten the radius of (a curve); to make (a curve) sharper;
as, to quicken the sheer, that is, to make its curve more pronounced.

Syn.
 -- To revive; resuscitate; animate; reinvigorate; vivify; refresh;
stimulate; sharpen; incite; hasten; accelerate; expedite; dispatch;
speed.

QUICKEN
Quick"en, v. i.

1. To come to life; to become alive; to become vivified or enlivened;
hence, to exhibit signs of life; to move, as the fetus in the womb.
The heart is the first part that quickens, and the last that dies.
Ray.
And keener lightnings quicken in her eye. Pope.
When the pale and bloodless east began To quicken to the sun.
Tennyson.

2. To move with rapidity or activity; to become accelerated; as, his
pulse quickened.

QUICKENER
Quick"en*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, quickens.

QUICKENING
Quick"en*ing, n.

1. The act or process of making or of becoming quick.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The first motion of the fetus in the womb felt by the mother,
occurring usually about the middle of the term of pregnancy. It has
been popularly supposed to be due to the fetus becoming possessed of
independent life.

QUICKENS
Quick"ens, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Quitch grass.

QUICKEN TREE
Quick"en tree`. Etym: [Probably from quick, and first applied to the
aspen or some tree with quivering leaves; cf. G. quickenbaum,
quizenbaum, quitschenbaum. Cf. Quitch grass.] (Bot.)

Defn: The European rowan tree; -- called also quickbeam, and
quickenbeam. See Rowan tree.

QUICKHATCH
Quick"hatch`, n. Etym: [From the American Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wolverine.

QUICKLIME
Quick"lime, n. Etym: [See Quick, a.] (Chem.)

Defn: Calcium oxide; unslacked lime; -- so called because when wet it
develops great heat. See 4th Lime, 2.

QUICKLY
Quick"ly, adv.

Defn: Speedily; with haste or celerity; soon; without delay; quick.

QUICKNESS
Quick"ness, n.

1. The condition or quality of being quick or living; life. [Obs.]
Touch it with thy celestial quickness. Herbert.

2. Activity; briskness; especially, rapidity of motion; speed;
celerity; as, quickness of wit.
This deed . . . must send thee hence With fiery quickness. Shak.
His mind had, indeed, great quickness and vigor. Macaulay.

3. Acuteness of perception; keen sensibility.
Would not quickness of sensation be an inconvenience to an animal
that must lie still Locke

4. Sharpness; pungency of taste. Mortimer.

Syn.
 -- Velocity; celerity; rapidity; speed; haste; expedition;
promptness; dispatch; swiftness; nimbleness; fleetness; agility;
briskness; liveliness; readiness; sagacity; shrewdness; shrewdness;
sharpness; keenness.

QUICKSAND
Quick"sand`, n.

Defn: Sand easily moved or readily yielding to pressure; especially,
a deep mass of loose or moving sand mixed with water, sometimes found
at the mouth of a river or along some coasts, and very dangerous,
from the difficulty of extricating a person who begins sinking into
it.
Life hath quicksands, -- Life hath snares! Longfellow.

QUICK-SCENTED
Quick"-scent`ed, a.

Defn: Acute of smell.

QUICKSET
Quick"set`, n.

Defn: A living plant set to grow, esp. when set for a hedge;
specifically, the hawthorn.

QUICKSET
Quick"set`, a.

Defn: Made of quickset.
Dates and pomegranates on the quickset hedges. Walpole.

QUICKSET
Quick"set`, v. t.

Defn: To plant with living shrubs or trees for a hedge; as, to
quickset a ditch. Mortimer.

QUICK-SIGHTED
Quick"-sight`ed, a.

Defn: Having quick sight or acute discernment; quick to see or to
discern. Locke. --Quick"-sight`ed*ness, n.

QUICKSILVER
Quick"sil`ver, n. Etym: [Quick living + silver; -- so called from its
fluidity; cf. G. quecksilber, L. argentum vivum. See Quick, a.]
(Chem.)

Defn: The metal mercury; -- so called from its resemblance to liquid
silver. Quicksilver horizon, a mercurial artificial horizon. See
under Horizon.
 -- Quicksilver water, a solution of mercury nitrate used in
artificial silvering; quick water.

QUICKSILVERED
Quick"sil`vered, a.

Defn: Overlaid with quicksilver, or with an amalgam of quicksilver
and tinfoil.

QUICKSILVERING
Quick"sil`ver*ing, n.

Defn: The mercury and foil on the back of a looking-glass.

QUICKSTEP
Quick"step`, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A lively, spirited march; also, a lively style of dancing.

QUICK-WITTED
Quick"-wit`ted, a.

Defn: Having ready wit Shak.

QUICK-WITTEDNESS
Quick"-wit`ted*ness, n.

Defn: Readiness of wit. "Celtic quick-wittedness." M. Arnold.

QUICKWORK
Quick"work`, n. (Naut.) A term somewhat loosely used to denote:
(a) All the submerged section of a vessel's planking.
(b) The planking between the spirketing and the clamps.
(c) The short planks between the portholes.

QUID
Quid, n. Etym: [See Cud.]

Defn: A portion suitable to be chewed; a cud; as, a quid of tobacco.

QUID
Quid, v. t. (Man.)

Defn: To drop from the mouth, as food when partially chewed; -- said
of horses. Youatt.

QUIDAM
Qui"dam, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Somebody; one unknown. Spenser.

QUIDDANY
Quid"da*ny, n. Etym: [L. cydoneum quince juice, quince wine. See
Quince.]

Defn: A confection of quinces, in consistency between a sirup and
marmalade.

QUIDDATIVE
Quid"da*tive, a. Etym: [See Quiddity.]

Defn: Constituting, or containing, the essence of a thing;
quidditative.

QUIDDIT
Quid"dit, n. Etym: [Cf. Quiddity, Quillet, and Quibble.]

Defn: A subtilty; an equivocation. [Obs.] Shak.
By some strange quiddit or some wrested clause. Drayton.

QUIDDITATIVE
Quid"di*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Quiddative.

QUIDDITY
Quid"di*ty, n.; pl. Quiddities. Etym: [LL. quidditas, fr. L. quid
what, neut. of quis who, akin to E. who: cf. F. quiddité.]

1. The essence, nature, or distinctive peculiarity, of a thing; that
which answers the question, Quid est or, What is it " The degree of
nullity and quiddity." Bacon.
The quiddity or characteristic difference of poetry as distinguished
from prose. De Quincey.

2. A trifling nicety; a cavil; a quibble.
We laugh at the quiddities of those writers now. Coleridge.

QUIDDLE
Quid"dle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Quiddled; p. pr. & vb. n. Quiddling.]
Etym: [L. quid what.]

Defn: To spend time in trifling employments, or to attend to useful
subjects in an indifferent or superficial manner; to dawdle.

QUIDDLE; QUIDDLER
Quid"dle, Quid"dler, n.

Defn: One who wastes his energy about trifles. Emerson.

QUIDNUNC
Quid"nunc, n. Etym: [L., what now]

Defn: One who is curious to know everything that passes; one who
knows, or pretends to know, all that is going on. "The idle stories
of quidnuncs." Motley.

QUIESCE
Qui*esce", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Quiesced; p. pr. & vb. n. Quiescing.]
Etym: [L. quiescere, akin to quies rest, quiet. See Quiet, a. & n.]

Defn: To be silent, as a letter; to have no sound. M. Stuart.

QUIESCENCE; QUIESCENCY
Qui*es"cence, Qui*es"cen*cy, n. Etym: [L. quiescentia, fr. quiescens,
p. pr.; cf. F. quiestence. See Quiesce.]

Defn: The state or quality of being quiescent. "Quiescence, bodily
and mental." H. Spencer.
Deeds will be done; -- while be boasts his quiescence. R. Browning.

QUIESCENT
Qui*es"cent, a. Etym: [L. quiescens, -entis, p. pr. of quiescere: cf.
F. quiescent. See Quiesce.]

1. Being in a state of repose; at rest; still; not moving; as, a
quiescent body or fluid.

2. Not ruffed with passion; unagitated; not in action; not excited;
quiet; dormant; resting.
In times of national security, the feeling of patriotism . . . is so
quiescent that it seems hardly to exist. Prof. Wilson.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: Not sounded; silent; as, y is quiescent in "day" and "say."

QUIESCENT
Qui*es"cent, n. (Gram.)

Defn: A silent letter. M. Stuart.

QUIESCENTLY
Qui*es"cent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a quiescent manner.

QUIET
Qui"et, a. [Compar. Quieter; superl. Quietest.] Etym: [L. quietus, p.
p. pf quiescere to rest, keep quiet; akin to quies rest, and prob. to
E. while, n. See While, and cf. Coy, a., Quiesce, Quietus, Quit, a.,
Quite, Requiem.]

1. In a state of rest or calm; without stir, motion, or agitation;
still; as, a quiet sea; quiet air.
They . . . were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning, when it
is day, we shall kill him. Judg. xvi. 2.

2. Free from noise or disturbance; hushed; still.

3. Not excited or anxious; calm; peaceful; placid; settled; as, a
quiet life; a quiet conscience. " So quiet and so sweet a style."
Shak.
That son, who on the quiet state of man Such trouble brought. Milton.

4. Not giving offense; not exciting disorder or trouble; not
turbulent; gentle; mild; meek; contented.
The ornament of a meek and quiet spirit. 1 Pet. iii. 4.
I will sit as quiet as a lamb. Shak.

5. Not showy; not such as to attract attention; undemonstrative; as,
a quiet dress; quiet colors; a quiet movement.

Syn.
 -- Still; tranquil; calm; unruffled; smooth; unmolested;
undisturbed; placid; peaceful; mild; peaceable; meek; contented.

QUIET
Qui"et n. Etym: [L. quies, -etis. See Quiet, a.]

1. The quality or state of being quiet, or in repose; as an hour or a
time of quiet.

2. Freedom from disturbance, noise, or alarm; stillness;
tranquillity; peace; security.
And join with thee, calm Peace and Quiet. Milton.
At quiet, still; peaceful.
 -- In quiet, quietly. " I will depart in quiet." Shak.
 -- Out of quiet, disturbed; restless. [Obs.] "She is much out of
quiet." Shak.

QUIET
Qui"et, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quieted; p. pr. & vb. n. Quieting.]

1. To stop motion in; to still; to reduce to a state of rest, or of
silence.

2. To calm; to appease; to pacify; to lull; to allay; to
tranquillize; as, to quiet the passions; to quiet clamors or
disorders; to quiet pain or grief.
Quiet yourselves, I pray, and be at peace. Shak.

QUIET
Qui"et, v. i.

Defn: To become still, silent, or calm; -- often with down; as, be
soon quieted down.

QUIETAGE
Qui"et*age, n.

Defn: Quietness. [Obs.] Spenser.

QUIETER
Qui"et*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, quiets.

QUIETISM
Qui"et*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. quiétisme.]

1. Peace or tranquillity of mind; calmness; indifference; apathy;
dispassion; indisturbance; inaction.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: The system of the Quietists, who maintained that religion
consists in the withdrawal of the mind from worldly interests and
anxieties and its constant employment in the passive contemplation of
God and his attributes.

QUIETIST
Qui"et*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. quiétiste.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect of mystics originated in the seventeenth century
by Molinos, a Spanish priest living in Rome. See Quietism.

QUIETISTIC
Qui`et*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Quietists, or to Quietism.

QUIETLY
Qui"et*ly, adv.

1. In a quiet state or manner; without motion; in a state of rest;
as, to lie or sit quietly.

2. Without tumult, alarm, dispute, or disturbance; peaceably; as, to
live quietly; to sleep quietly.

3. Calmly, without agitation or violent emotion; patiently; as, to
submit quietly to unavoidable evils.

4. Noiselessly; silently; without remark or violent movement; in a
manner to attract little or no observation; as, he quietly left the
room.

QUIETNESS
Qui"et*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being quiet; freedom from noise,
agitation, disturbance, or excitement; stillness; tranquillity;
calmness.
I would have peace and quietness. Shak.

QUIETSOME
Qui"et*some, a.

Defn: Calm; still. [Obs.] Spenser.

QUIETUDE
Qui"e*tude, n. Etym: [L. quietudo: cf. F. quiétude.]

Defn: Rest; repose; quiet; tranquillity. Shelley.

QUIETUS
Qui*e"tus, n. Etym: [LL. quietus quit, discharged, L., at rest,
quiet, dead. See Quiet, a., and cf. Quit, a.]

Defn: Final discharge or acquittance, as from debt or obligation;
that which silences claims; (Fig.) rest; death.
When he himself might his quietus make With a bare bodkin. Shak.

QUILL
Quill, n. Etym: [Perhaps fr. F. quille ninepin (see Kayless); but cf.
also G. kiel a quill. MHG. kil, and Ir. cuille a quill.]

1. One of the large feathers of a bird's wing, or one of the
rectrices of the tail; also, the stock of such a feather.

2. A pen for writing made by sharpening and splitting the point or
nib of the stock of a feather; as, history is the proper subject of
his quill. Sir H. Wotton.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A spine of the hedgehog or porcupine.
(b) The pen of a squid. See Pen.

4. (Mus.)
(a) The plectrum with which musicians strike the strings of certain
instruments.
(b) The tube of a musical instrument.
He touched the tender stops of various quills. Milton.

5. Something having the form of a quill; as:
(a) The fold or plain of a ruff.
(b) (Weaving) A spindle, or spool, as of reed or wood, upon which the
thread for the woof is wound in a shuttle.
(c) (Mach.) A hollow spindle. Quill bit, a bit for boring resembling
the half of a reed split lengthways and having its end sharpened like
a gouge.
 -- Quill driver, one who works with a pen; a writer; a clerk.
[Jocose] -- Quill nib, a small quill pen made to be used with a
holder. Simmonds.

QUILL
Quill, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quilled; p. pr. & vb. n. Quilling.]

1. To plaint in small cylindrical ridges, called quillings; as, to
quill a ruffle.
His cravat seemed quilled into a ruff. Goldsmith.

2. To wind on a quill, as thread or yarn. Judd.

QUILLAIA BARK
Quil*la"ia bark`. (Bot.)

Defn: The bark of a rosaceous tree (Quillaja Saponaria), native of
Chili. The bark is finely laminated, and very heavy with alkaline
substances, and is used commonly by the Chilians instead of soap.
Also called soap bark.

QUILLBACK
Quill"back`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American fresh-water fish (Ictiobus, or Carpiodes,
cyprinus); -- called also carp sucker, sailfish, spearfish, and
skimback.

QUILLED
Quilled, a.

Defn: Furnished with quills; also, shaped like quills. "A sharp-
quilled porcupine." Shak. Quilled suture (Surg.), a variety of stitch
in which the threads after being passed deeply through the edges of a
wound are secured about two quills or bodies of similar shape, in
order to produce a suitable degree of pressure.

QUILLET
Quil"let, n. Etym: [L. quidlibet what you please. Cf. Quiddit, and
Quibble.]

Defn: Subtilty; nicety; quibble. "Nice, sharp quillets of the law."
Shak.

QUILLING
Quill"ing, n.
(a) A band of linen, muslin, or the like, fluted, folded, or plaited
so as somewhat to resemble a row of quills.
(b) One of the rounded plaits or flutings of such a band.

QUILLWORT
Quill"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant or species of the genus Isoetes, cryptogamous plants
with a cluster of elongated four-tubed rushlike leaves, rising from a
corm, and containing spores in their enlarged and excavated bases.
There are about seventeen American species, usually growing in the
mud under still, shallow water. So called from the shape of the shape
of the leaves.

QUILT
Quilt, n. Etym: [OE. quilte, OF. cuilte, L. culcita bed, cushion,
mattress. Cf. 2d Counterpoint, Cushion.]

Defn: Anything that is quilted; esp., a quilted bed cover, or a skirt
worn by women; any cover or garment made by putting wool, cotton,
etc., between two cloths and stitching them together; also, any outer
bed cover.
The beds were covered with magnificent quilts. Arbuthnot.

QUILT
Quilt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quilted; p. pr. & vb. n. Quilting.]

1. To stitch or sew together at frequent intervals, in order to
confine in place the several layers of cloth and wadding of which a
garment, comforter, etc., may be made; as, to quilt a coat. Dryden.

2. To wad, as a garment, with warm soft material.

3. To stitch or sew in lines or patterns.

QUILTER
Quilt"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, quilts.

QUILTING
Quilt"ing, n.

1. The act of stitching or running in patterns, as in making a quilt.

2. A quilting bee. See Bee, 2.

3. The material used for making quilts.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A coating of strands of rope for a water vessel.

QUIN
Quin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European scallop (Pecten opercularis), used as food. [Prov.
Eng.]

QUINALDINE
Quin*al"dine, n. Etym: [Quinoline + aldehyde + aniline.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless liquid of a slightly pungent odor, C9H6N.CH3, first
obtained as a condensation product of aldehyde and aniline, and
regarded as a derivative of quinoline; -- called also methyl
quinoline. [Written also chinaldine.]

QUINARY
Qui"na*ry, a. Etym: [L. quinarius, from quini five each, akin to
quinque five: cf. F.quinaire. See Five.]

Defn: Consisting of five; arranged by fives. Boyle. Quinary system
(Zoöl.), a fanciful classification based on the hypothesis that each
group contains five types.

QUINATE
Qui"nate, a. Etym: [L. quini five each.] (Bot.)

Defn: Growing in sets of five; -- said especially of leaves composed
of five leaflets set at the end of a common petiole.

QUINATE
Qui"nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of quinic acid. [Written also kinate.]

QUINAZOL
Quin"a*zol, n. Etym: [Quinoline + azote.] (Chem.)

Defn: A complex nitrogenous base related to cinnoline. [Written also
chinazol.]

QUINCE
Quince, n. Etym: [Prob. a pl. from OE. quyne, coin, OF. coin, cooin,
F. coing, from L. Cydonius a quince tree, as adj., Cydonian, Gr.
Quiddany.]

1. The fruit of a shrub (Cydonia vulgaris) belonging to the same
tribe as the apple. It somewhat resembles an apple, but differs in
having many seeds in each carpel. It has hard flesh of high flavor,
but very acid, and is largely used for marmalade, jelly, and
preserves.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: a quince tree or shrub. Japan quince (Bot.), an Eastern Asiatic
shrub (Cydonia, formerly Pyrus, Japonica) and its very fragrant but
inedible fruit. The shrub has very showy flowers, usually red, but
sometimes pink or white, and is much grown for ornament.
 -- Quince curculio (Zoöl.), a small gray and yellow curculio
(Conotrachelus cratægi) whose larva lives in quinces.
 -- Quince tree (Bot.), the small tree (Cydonia vulgaris) which
produces the quince.

QUINCEWORT
Quince"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The squinancy. Called also quinsywort.

QUINCH
Quinch, v. i. Etym: [Cf. OD. quincken to quiver, shake, Fries. quink
hovering. Cf. Quich.]

Defn: To stir; to wince. [Obs.] Spenser.

QUINCUNCIAL
Quin*cun"cial, Etym: [L. quincuncialis, from quincunx. See Quincunx.]

1. Having the form of a quincunx.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the leaves of a pentamerous calyx or corolla so
imbricated that two are exterior, two are interior, and the other has
one edge exterior and one interior; as, quincuncial æstivation.
Quincuncial phyllotaxy (Bot.), an arrangement of five leaves in a
spiral, each leaf two fifths of a circle from the next.

QUINCUNCIALLY
Quin*cun"cial*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner or order of a quincunx.

QUINCUNX
Quin"cunx, n. Etym: [L., fr. quingue five + uncia an ounce. The
quincunx was marked by five small spots or balls. See Five, and Ounce
the weight.]

1. An arrangement of things by fives in a square or a rectangle, one
being placed at each corner and one in the middle; especially, such
an arrangement of trees repeated indefinitely, so as to form a
regular group with rows running in various directions.

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: The position of planets when distant from each other five
signs, or 150º. Hutton.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A quincuncial arrangement, as of the parts of a flower in
æstivation. See Quincuncial, 2.

QUINDECAGON
Quin*dec"a*gon, n. Etym: [L. quindecim fifteen + Gr. (Geom.)

Defn: A plane figure with fifteen angles, and consequently fifteen
sides.

QUINDECEMVIR
Quin`de*cem"vir, n.; pl. E. Quindecemvirs, L. Quindecemviri. Etym:
[L., from quindecim fifteen + vir a man.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: One of a sacerdotal college of fifteen men whose chief duty was
to take care of the Sibylline books.

QUINDECEMVIRATE
Quin`de*cem"vi*rate, n. Etym: [L. quindecimviratus.]

Defn: The body or office of the quindecemviri.

QUINDECONE
Quin*dec"one, n. Etym: [L. quindecim fifteen.] (Chem.)

Defn: An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C15H26, of the valylene series,
produced artificially as an oily liquid. [Written also quindekone.]

QUINDECYLIC
Quin`de*cyl"ic, n. Etym: [L. quindecim fifteen + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the fatty acid
series, containing fifteen atoms of carbon; called also pentadecylic
acid.

QUINDEM
Quin"dem, n.

Defn: A fifteenth part. [Obs.]

QUINDISM
Quin"dism, n.

Defn: A fifteenth. [Obs.] Prynne.

QUINHYDRONE
Quin*hy"drone, n. Etym: [Quinone + hydroquinone.] (Chem.)

Defn: A green crystalline substance formed by the union of quinone
with hydroquinone, or as an intermediate product in the oxidation of
hydroquinone or the reduction of quinone. [Written also chinhydrone.]

QUINIA
Quin"i*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Chem.)

Defn: Quinine.

QUINIBLE
Quin"i*ble, n. Etym: [L. quini five each.] (Mus.)

Defn: An interval of a fifth; also, a part sung with such intervals.
[Obs.] "He sang . . . a loud quynyble." Chaucer.

QUINIC
Quin"ic, a. Etym: [See Quinine, and cf. Kinic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or connected with, quinine and
related compounds; specifically, designating a nonnitrogenous acid
obtained from cinchona bark, coffee, beans, etc., as a white
crystalline substance. [Written also chinic, kinic.]

QUINICINE
Quin"i*cine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An uncrystallizable alkaloid obtained by the action of heat
from quinine, with which it is isomeric.

QUINIDINE
Quin"i*dine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid isomeric with, and resembling, quinine, found in
certain species of cinchona, from which it is extracted as a bitter
white crystalline substance; conchinine. It is used somewhat as a
febrifuge. [Written also chinidine.]

QUININE
Qui"nine, n. Etym: [F. (cf. Sp. quinina), fr. Sp. quina, or
quinaquina, Peruvian bark, fr. Peruv. kina, quina, bark. Cf. Kinic.]
(Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid extracted from the bark of several species of
cinchona (esp. Cinchona Calisaya) as a bitter white crystalline
substance, C20H24N2O2. Hence, by extension (Med.), any of the salts
of this alkaloid, as the acetate, chloride, sulphate, etc., employed
as a febrifuge or antiperiodic. Called also quinia, quinina, etc.
[Written also chinine.]

QUININIC
Qui*nin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous acid obtained as a
yellow crystalline substance by the oxidation of quinine.

QUININISM; QUINISM
Qui"nin*ism, Qui"nism, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Cinchonism.

QUINIZARIN
Qui*niz"a*rin, Etym: [Hydroquinone + alizarin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow crystalline substance produced artificially. It is
isomeric with alizarin.

QUINIZINE
Quin"i*zine, n. Etym: [Quinoline + hydrazine.] (Chem.)

Defn: any one of a series of nitrogenous bases, certain of which are
used as antipyretics.

QUINNAT
Quin"nat, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The California salmon (Oncorhynchus choicha); -- called also
chouicha, king salmon, chinnook salmon, and Sacramento salmon. It is
of great commercial importance. [Written also quinnet.]

QUINOA
Qui*no"a, n.

Defn: The seeds of a kind of goosewort (Chenopodium Quinoa), used in
Chili and Peru for making porridge or cakes; also, food thus made.

QUINOGEN
Quin"o*gen, n. Etym: [Quinine + -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical of quinine and related alkaloids.

QUINOIDINE
Qui*noid"ine, n. Etym: [Quinine + -oid.] (Med. (Chem.)

Defn: A brownish resinous substance obtained as a by-product in the
treatment of cinchona bark. It consists of a mixture of several
alkaloids. [Written also chinoidine.]

QUINOLINE
Quin"o*line, n. Etym: [Quinine + L. oleum oil + -ine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous base, C9H7N obtained as a pungent colorless
liquid by the distillation of alkaloids, bones, coal tar, etc. It the
nucleus of many organic bodies, especially of certain alkaloids and
related substances; hence, by extension, any one of the series of
alkaloidal bases of which quinoline proper is the type. [Written also
chinoline.]

QUINOLOGIST
Qui*nol"o*gist n.

Defn: One who is versed in quinology.

QUINOLOGY
Qui*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Quinine + -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of the cultivation of the cinchona,
and of its use in medicine.

QUINONE
Qui"none, n. Etym: [Quinine + ketone.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline substance, C6H4O2 (called also benzoketone),
first obtained by the oxidation of quinic acid and regarded as a
double ketone; also, by extension, any one of the series of which
quinone proper is the type. [Written also chinone, kinone.]

QUINOVIC
Qui*no"vic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a crystalline acid obtained from
some varieties of cinchona bark. [Written also chinovic, and
kinovic.]

QUINOVIN
Qui*no"vin, n. Etym: [NL. quina nova the tree Cosmibuena magnifolia,
whose bark yields quinovin.] (Chem.)

Defn: An amorphous bitter glucoside derived from cinchona and other
barks. Called also quinova bitter, and quinova. [Written also
chinovin, and kinovin.]

QUINOXALINE
Quin*ox"a*line, n. Etym: [Quinoline + glyoxal.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of complex nitrogenous bases obtained by
the union of certain aniline derivatives with glyoxal or with certain
ketones. [Written also chinoxaline.]

QUINOXYL
Quin*ox"yl, n. Etym: [Quinone + oxygen + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The hypothetical radical of certain quinone derivatives related
to rhodizonic acid.

QUINOYL
Qui"noyl, n. Etym: [Quinone + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A radical of which quinone is the hydride, analogous to phenyl.
[Written also kinoyl.]

QUINQUAGESIMA
Quin`qua*ges"i*ma, a. Etym: [L., fr. quinquagesimus the fiftieth,
akin to quinquaginta fifty, quinque five. See Five.]

Defn: Fiftieth. Quinquagesima Sunday, the Sunday which is the
fiftieth day before Easter, both days being included in the
reckoning; -- called also Shrove Sunday.

QUINQUANGULAR
Quin*quan"gu*lar, a. Etym: [L. quinquanqulus; quinque five + angulus
ad angle: cf. F. quinquangulaire.]

Defn: Having five angles or corners.

QUINQUARTICULAR
Quin`quar*tic"u*lar, a. Etym: [Quinque- + article.] (Theol.)

Defn: Relating to the five articles or points; as, the
quinquarticular controversy between Arminians and Calvinists. [Obs.]
Bp. Sanderson.

QUINQUE-
Quin"que-. Etym: [L. quinque five. See Five.]

Defn: A combining form meaning five, five times, fivefold; as,
quinquefid, five-cleft; quinquedentate, five-toothed.

QUINQUEANGLED
Quin"que*an`gled, a. Etym: [Quinque- + angle.]

Defn: Having five angles; quinquangular.

QUINQUEDENTATE; QUINQUEDENTATED
Quin`que*den"tate, Quin`que*den"ta*ted, a. Etym: [Quinque- + dentate,
-tated: cf. F. quinquédenté.]

Defn: Five-toothed; as, a quinquedentate leaf.

QUINQUEFARIOUS
Quin`que*fa"ri*ous, a. Etym: [From L. quinque five: cf. F.
quinquéfarié. Cf. Bifarious.] (Bot.)

Defn: Arranged in five vertical rows; pentastichous. Gray.

QUINQUEFID
Quin"que*fid, a. Etym: [Quique- + the root of L. findere to cleave:
cf. F. quinquéfide.] (Bot.)

Defn: Sharply cut about halfway to the middle or base into five
segments; as, a quinquefid leaf or corolla.

QUINQUEFOLIATE; QUINQUEFOLIATED
Quin`que*fo"li*ate, Quin`que*fo"li*a`ted, a. Etym: [Quinque- +
foliate, -ated: cf. F. quinquéfolié, L. quinquefolius.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having five leaves or leaflets. Gray.

QUINQUE FOLIOLATE
Quin`que fo"li*o*late, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having five leaflets. Gray.

QUINQUELITERAL
Quin`que*lit"er*al, a. Etym: [Quinque- + literal.]

Defn: Consisting of five letters.

QUINQUELOBATE; QUINQUELOBARED
Quin`que*lo"bate, Quin`que*lo"ba*red, a. Etym: [Quinque- + lobate, -
ated: cf. F. quinquélobé.]

Defn: Cut less than halfway into portions, usually somewhat rounded;
five-lobed; as, a quinquelobate leaf or corolla.

QUINQUELOBED
Quin"que*lobed`, a. Etym: [Quinque- + lobe.]

Defn: Same as Quinquelobate.

QUINQUELOCULAR
Quin`que*loc"u*lar, a. Etym: [Quinque- + locular: cf. F.
quinquéloculaire.]

Defn: Having five cells or loculi; five-celled; as, a quinquelocular
pericarp.

QUINQUENERVED
Quin"que*nerved`, a. Etym: [Quinque- + nerve.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having five nerves; -- said of a leaf with five nearly equal
nerves or ribs rising from the end of the petiole.

QUINQUENNALIA
Quin`quen*na"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. quinquennalis. See
Ouinquennial.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: Public games celebrated every five years.

QUINQUENNIAL
Quin*quen"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. quinquennalis and quinquennis; quinque
five + annus year. See Five, and cf. Biennial.]

Defn: Occurring once in five years, or at the end of every five
years; also, lasting five years. A quinquennial event.

QUINQUENNIUM
Quin*quen"ni*um, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Space of five years.

QUINQUEPARTITE
Quin*quep"ar*tite, a. Etym: [L. quinquepartitus; quinque five +
partitus, p. p. of partire to divide: cf. F. quinquépartite.]

1. Consisting of five parts.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Divided into five parts almost to the base.

QUINQUEREME
Quin"que*reme, n. Etym: [L. quinqueremis; quinque five + remus an
oar: cf. F. quinquérème]

Defn: A galley having five benches or banks of oars; as, an Athenian
quinquereme.

QUINQUESYLLABLE
Quin"que*syl`la*ble, n. Etym: [Quinque- + syllable.]

Defn: A word of five syllables.

QUINQUEVALVE; QUINQUEVALVULAR
Quin"que*valve, Quin`que*val"vu*lar, a. Etym: [Quinque- + valve,
valvular: cf. F. quinquévalve.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having five valves, as a pericarp.

QUINQUEVIR
Quin"que*vir, n.; pl; E. Quinquevirs, L. Quinqueviri. Etym: [L., fr.
quinque Five + vir man.] (Bot. Antiq.)

Defn: One of five commissioners appointed for some special object.

QUINQUINA
Quin*qui"na, n. Etym: [NL. & F. See Quinine.]

Defn: Peruvian bark.

QUINQUIVALENT
Quin*quiv"a*lent, a. Etym: [Quinque- + L. valens, -entis, p. pr. See
Valence.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Pentavalent.

QUINSY
Quin"sy, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. squinancy, F. esquinancie, L. cynanche
a sort of sore throat, Gr. synanche sore throat, Gr. Hound, Anger,
and Cynanche.] (Med.)

Defn: An inflammation of the throat, or parts adjacent, especially of
the fauces or tonsils, attended by considerable swelling, painful and
impeded deglutition, and accompanied by inflammatory fever. It
sometimes creates danger of suffocation; -- called also squinancy,
and squinzey.

QUINT
Quint, n. Etym: [F. quinte, fr. L. quintus, quinta, the fifth,
quinque five. See Five.]

1. A set or sequence of five, as in piquet.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The interval of a fifth.

QUINTAIN
Quin"tain, n. Etym: [F. quintaine, LL. quintana; cf. W. chwintan a
kind of hymeneal game.]

Defn: An object to be tilted at; -- called also quintel. [Written
also quintin.]

Note: A common form in the Middle Ages was an upright post, on the
top of which turned a crosspiece, having on one end a broad board,
and on the other a sand bag. The endeavor was to strike the board
with the lance while riding under, and get away without being hit by
the sand bag. "But a quintain, a mere lifeless block." Shak.

QUINTAL
Quin"tal, n. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. quintal, fr. Ar. qintar a weight of
100 lbs., prob. fr. L. centenarius consisting of a hundred, fr.
centeni a hundred each, fr. centum a hundred. See Hundred, and cf.
Kentle.]

1. A hundredweight, either 112 or 100 pounds, according to the scale
used. Cf. Cental. [Sometimes written and pronounced kentle.]

2. A metric measure of weight, being 100,000 grams, or 100 kilograms,
equal to 220.46 pounds avoirdupois.

QUINTAN
Quin"tan, a. Etym: [L. quintanus, fr. quintus fifth, quinque five.
See Five.]

Defn: Occurring as the fifth, after four others also, occurring every
fifth day, reckoning inclusively; as, a quintan fever.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: An intermittent fever which returns every fifth day, reckoning
inclusively, or in which the intermission lasts three days.

QUINTEL
Quin"tel, n.

Defn: See Quintain.

QUINTESSENCE
Quin*tes"sence, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. quinta essentia fifth essence.
See Quint, and Essence.]

1. The fifth or last and highest essence or power in a natural body.
See Ferment oils, under Ferment. [Obs.]

Note: The ancient Greeks recognized four elements, fire, air, water,
and earth. The Pythagoreans added a fifth and called it nether, the
fifth essence, which they said flew upward at creation and out of it
the stars were made. The alchemists sometimes considered alcohol, or
the ferment oils, as the fifth essence.

2. Hence: An extract from anything, containing its rarest virtue, or
most subtle and essential constituent in a small quantity; pure or
concentrated essence.
Let there be light, said God; and forthwith light Ethereal, first of
things, quintessence pure, Sprung from the deep. Milton.

QUINTESSENCE
Quin*tes"sence, v. t.

Defn: To distil or extract as a quintessence; to reduce to a
quintessence. [R.] Stirling. "Truth quintessenced and raised to the
highest power." J. A. Symonds.

QUINTESSENTIAL
Quin`tes*sen"tial, a.

Defn: Of the nature of a quintessence; purest. "Quintessential
extract of mediocrity." G. Eliot.

QUINTET; QUINTETTE
Quin*tet", Quin*tette", n. Etym: [It. quintetto, dim. of quinto the
fifth, a fifth part, from L. quintus the fifth: cf. F. quintette. See
Quint.] (Mus.)

Defn: A composition for five voices or instruments; also, the set of
five persons who sing or play five-part music.

QUINTIC
Quin"tic, a. Etym: [L. quintus fifth, fr. quinque five.] (Alg.)

Defn: Of the fifth degree or order.
 -- n. (Alg.)

Defn: A quantic of the fifth degree. See Quantic.

QUINTILE
Quin"tile, n. Etym: [F. quintil aspect, fr. L. quintus the fifth.]
(Astron.)

Defn: The aspect of planets when separated the fifth part of the
zodiac, or 72º. Hutton.

QUINTILLLION
Quin*till"lion, n. Etym: [Formed fr. L. quintus the fifth, after the
analogy of million: cf. F. quintillion. See Quint.]

Defn: According to the French notation, which is used on the
Continent and in America, the cube of a million, or a unit with
eighteen ciphers annexed; according to the English notation, a number
produced by involving a million to the fifth power, or a unit with
thirty ciphers annexed. See the Note under Numeration.

QUINTIN
Quin"tin, n.

Defn: See Quintain.

QUINTINE
Quin"tine, n. Etym: [L. quintus the fifth: cf. F. quintine.] (Bot.)

Defn: The embryonic sac of an ovule, sometimes regarded as an
innermost fifth integument. Cf. Quartine, and Tercine.

QUINTOLE
Quin"tole, n. Etym: [It. quinto fifth.] (Mus.)

Defn: A group of five notes to be played or sung in the time of four
of the same species.

QUINTROON
Quin*troon", n. [Sp. quinteron the off-spring of a quadroon and a
white.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: The off-spring of an octoroon and a white person.

QUINTUPLE
Quin"tu*ple, a. Etym: [L. quintus fifth: cf. F. quintuple, L.
quintuplex. Cf. Quadruple.]

Defn: Multiplied by five; increased to five times the amount;
fivefold. Quintuple time (Mus.), a time having five beats in a
measure. It is seldom used.

QUINTUPLE
Quin"tu*ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quintupled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Quintupling.] Etym: [Cf. F. quintupler.]

Defn: To make fivefold, or five times as much or many.

QUINTUPLE-NERVED; QUINTUPLE-RIBBED
Quin"tu*ple-nerved`, Quin"tu*ple-ribbed`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: The same as Quinquenerved.

QUINTUPLET
Quin"tu*plet, n. [From Quintuple.]

1. A collection or combination of five of a kind.

2.  pl. Five children born in the same labor.

3.  (Mus.) A group of five connected notes; a turn of five notes.

4.  A cycle having five crank shafts and adapted for five riders, all
of whom can assist in the propulsion.

QUINZAINE
Quin"zaine, n. Etym: [F., from quinze fifteen, L. quindecim. See
Fifteen.]

Defn: The fifteenth day after a feast day, including both in the
reckoning. [Written also quinzain.]

QUINZE
Quinze, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A game at cards in which the object is to make fifteen points.

QUIP
Quip, n. Etym: [Cf. W. chwip a quick flirt or turn, chwipio to whip,
to move briskly, and E. whip. Cf. Quib, Quibble.]

Defn: A smart, sarcastic turn or jest; a taunt; a severe retort; a
gibe.
Quips, and cranks, and wanton wiles. Milton.
He was full of joke and jest, But all his merry quips are o'er.
Tennyson.

QUIP
Quip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quipped; p. pr. & vb. n. Quipping.]

Defn: To taunt; to treat with quips.
The more he laughs, and does her closely quip. Spenser.

QUIP
Quip, v. i.

Defn: To scoff; to use taunts. Sir H. Sidney.

QUIPO
Qui"po, n.

Defn: Same as Quipu.

QUIPU
Qui"pu, n.; pl. Quipus. Etym: [Peruv.quipu a knot.]

Defn: A contrivance employed by the ancient Peruvians, Mexicans,
etc., as a substitute for writing and figures, consisting of a main
cord, from which hung at certain distances smaller cords of various
colors, each having a special meaning, as silver, gold, corn,
soldiers. etc. Single, double, and triple knots were tied in the
smaller cords, representing definite numbers. It was chiefly used for
arithmetical purposes, and to register important facts and events.
[Written also quipo.] Tylor.
The mysterious science of the quipus . . . supplied the Peruvians
with the means of communicating their ideas to one another, and of
transmitting them to future generations. Prescott.

QUIRBOILLY
Quir"boil*ly`, n. Etym: [OE. cuir bouilli.]

Defn: Leather softened by boiling so as to take any required shape.
Upon drying, it becomes exceedingly hard, and hence was formerly used
for armor. [Obs.] "His jambeux were of quyrboilly." Chaucer.

QUIRE
Quire, n.

Defn: See Choir. [Obs.] Spenser.
A quire of such enticing birds. Shak.

QUIRE
Quire, v. i.

Defn: To sing in concert. [R.] Shak.

QUIRE
Quire, n. Etym: [OE. quaer, quair, OF. quayer, cayer, caïer, F.
cahier, a book of loose sheets, a quarter of a quire, LL. quaternus,
quaternum, sheets of paper packed together, properly, four together,
fr. L. quaterni four each, by fours, quattuor, four. See Four and cf.
Cahier.]

Defn: A collection of twenty-four sheets of paper of the same size
and quality, unfolded or having a single fold; one twentieth of a
ream.

QUIRINAL
Quir"i*nal, a. [L. Quirinals, fr. Quirinus, a name of Romulus.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, the hill Collis Quirinalis,
now Monte Quirinale (one of the seven hills of Rome), or a modern
royal place situated upon it. Also used substantively.

QUIRISTER
Quir"is*ter, n. Etym: [See Quire, Chorister.]

Defn: A chorister. See Chorister. [R.] Thomson.

QUIRITATION
Quir`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. quiritatio, fr. quiritare to raise a
plaintive cry, v. freq. fr. queri to complain.]

Defn: A crying for help. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

QUIRITE
Qui"rite, n.

Defn: One of the Quirites.

QUIRITES
Qui*ri"tes, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. Cures, a Sabine town.] (Rom.
Antiq.)

Defn: Roman citizens.

Note: After the Sabines and Romans had united themselves into one
community, under Romulus, the name of Quirites was taken in addition
to that of Romani, the Romans calling themselves in a civil capacity
Quirites, while in a political and military capacity they retained
the name of Romani. Andrews.

QUIRK
Quirk, n. [Written also querk.] Etym: [Cf W. chwiori to turn briskly,
or E. queer.]

1. A sudden turn; a starting from the point or line; hence, an artful
evasion or subterfuge; a shift; a quibble; as, the quirks of a
pettifogger. "Some quirk or . . . evasion." Spenser.
We ground the justification of our nonconformity on dark subtilties
and intricate quirks. Barrow.

2. A fit or turn; a short paroxysm; a caprice. [Obs.] "Quirks of joy
and grief." Shak.

3. A smart retort; a quibble; a shallow conceit.
Some odd quirks and remnants of wit. Shak.

4. An irregular air; as, light quirks of music. Pope.

5. (Building)

Defn: A piece of ground taken out of any regular ground plot or
floor, so as to make a court, yard, etc.; -- sometimes written quink.
Gwilt.

6. (Arch.)

Defn: A small channel, deeply recessed in proportion to its width,
used to insulate and give relief to a convex rounded molding. Quirk
molding, a bead between two quirks.

QUIRKED
Quirked, a.

Defn: Having, or formed with, a quirk or quirks.

QUIRKISH
Quirk"ish

Defn: , Consisting of quirks; resembling a quirk. Barrow.

QUIRKY
Quirk"y, a.

Defn: Full of quirks; tricky; as, a quirky lawyer.

QUIRL
Quirl, n. & v.

Defn: See Querl.

QUIRPELE
Quir"pele, n. Etym: [Tamil kirippillai.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Indian ferret.

QUIRT
Quirt, n.

Defn: A rawhide whip plaited with two thongs of buffalo hide T.
Roosevelt.

QUISH
Quish, n.

Defn: See Cuish.

QUIT
Quit, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small passerine birds native of
tropical America. See Banana quit, under Banana, and Guitguit.

QUIT
Quit, a. Etym: [OE. quite, OF. quite, F. quitte. See Quit, v.,
Quirt.]

Defn: Released from obligation, charge, penalty, etc.; free; clear;
absolved; acquitted. Chaucer.
The owner of the ox shall be quit. Ex. xxi. 28.

Note: This word is sometimes used in the form quits, colloquially;
as, to be quits with one, that is, to have made mutual satisfaction
of demands with him; to be even with him; hence, as an exclamation:
Quits! we are even, or on equal terms. "To cry quits with the commons
in their complaints." Fuller.

QUIT
Quit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quit or Quitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Quitting.]
Etym: [OE. quiten, OF. quiter, quitier, cuitier, F. quitter, to
acquit, quit, LL. quietare, fr. L. quietare to calm, to quiet, fr.
quietus quiet. See Quiet, a., and cf. Quit, a., Quite, Acquit,
Requite.]

1. To set at rest; to free, as from anything harmful or oppressive;
to relieve; to clear; to liberate. [R.]
To quit you of this fear, you have already looked Death in the face;
what have you found so terrible in it Wake.

2. To release from obligation, accusation, penalty, or the like; to
absolve; to acquit.
There may no gold them quyte. Chaucer.
God will relent, and quit thee all his debt. Milton.

3. To discharge, as an obligation or duty; to meet and satisfy, as a
claim or debt; to make payment for or of; to requite; to repay.
The blissful martyr quyte you your meed. Chaucer.
Enkindle all the sparks of nature To quit this horrid act. Shak.
Before that judge that quits each soul his hire. Fairfax.

4. To meet the claims upon, or expectations entertained of; to
conduct; to acquit; -- used reflexively.
Be strong, and quit yourselves like men. I Sam. iv. 9.
Samson hath guit himself Like Samson. Milton.

5. To carry through; to go through to the end. [Obs.]
Never worthy prince a day did quit With greater hazard and with more
renown. Daniel.

6. To have done with; to cease from; to stop; hence, to depart from;
to leave; to forsake; as, to quit work; to quit the place; to quit
jesting.
Such a superficial way of examining is to quit truth for appearance.
Locke.
To quit cost, to pay; to reimburse.
 -- To quit scores, to make even; to clear mutually from demands.
Does not the earth quit scores with all the elements in the noble
fruits that issue from it South.

Syn.
 -- To leave; relinquish; resign; abandon; forsake; surrender;
discharge; requite.
 -- Quit, Leave. Leave is a general term, signifying merely an act of
departure; quit implies a going without intention of return, a final
and absolute abandonment.

QUIT
Quit, v. i.

Defn: To away; to depart; to stop doing a thing; to cease.

QUITCH
Quitch, n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Quitch grass.

2. Figuratively: A vice; a taint; an evil.
To pick the vicious quitch Of blood and custom wholly out of him.
Tennyson
.

QUITCH GRASS
Quitch" grass`. Etym: [Properly quick grass, being probably so called
from its vigorous growth, or from its tenacity of life. See Quick,
and cf. Couch grass.] (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial grass (Agropyrum repens) having long running
rootstalks, by which it spreads rapidly and pertinaciously, and so
becomes a troublesome weed. Also called couch grass, quick grass,
quick grass, twitch grass. See Illustration in Appendix.

QUITCLAIM
Quit"claim`, n. Etym: [Quit, a. + claim.] (Law)

Defn: A release or relinquishment of a claim; a deed of release; an
instrument by which some right, title, interest, or claim, which one
person has, or is supposed to have, in or to an estate held by
himself or another, is released or relinquished, the grantor
generally covenanting only against persons who claim under himself.

QUITCLAIM
Quit"claim`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quitclaimed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Quitclaiming.] (Law)

Defn: To release or relinquish a claim to; to release a claim to by
deed, without covenants of warranty against adverse and paramount
titles.

QUITE
Quite, v. t. & i.

Defn: See Quit. [Obs.] Chaucer.

QUITE
Quite, adv. Etym: [F. quite discharged, free, clear; cf. OF.
quitement freely, frankly, entirely. See Quit, a.]

1. Completely; wholly; entirely; totally; perfectly; as, the work is
not quite done; the object is quite accomplished; to be quite
mistaken.
Man shall not quite be lost, but saved who will. Milton.
The same actions may be aimed at different ends, and arise from quite
contrary principles. Spectator.

2. To a great extent or degree; very; very much; considerably. "Quite
amusing." Macaulay.
He really looks quite concerned. Landor.
The island stretches along the land and is quite close to it. Jowett
(Thucyd. ).

QUITLY
Quit"ly, adv.

Defn: Quite. [Obs.] Chaucer.

QUITRENT
Quit"rent`, n. Etym: [Quit, a. + rent] (Law)

Defn: A rent reserved in grants of land, by the payment of which the
tenant is quit from other service. Blackstone.

Note: In some of the United States a fee-farm rent is so termed.
Burrill.

QUITS
Quits interj.

Defn: See the Note under Quit, a.

QUITTABLE
Quit"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being quitted.

QUITTAL
Quit"tal, n.

Defn: Return; requital; quittance. [Obs.]

QUITTANCE
Quit"tance, n. Etym: [OE. quitaunce, OF. quitance, F. quittance. See
Quit, v. t.]

1. Discharge from a debt or an obligation; acquittance.
Omittance is no quittance. Shak.

2. Recompense; return; repayment. [Obs.] Shak.

QUITTANCE
Quit"tance, v. t.

Defn: To repay; to requite. [Obs.] Shak.

QUITTER
Quit"ter, n.

1. One who quits.

2. A deliverer. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

QUITTOR
Quit"tor, n. Etym: [Perhaps for quitture.] (Far.)

Defn: A chronic abscess, or fistula of the coronet, in a horse's
foot, resulting from inflammation of the tissues investing the coffin
bone.

QUITTURE
Quit"ture, n.

Defn: A discharge; an issue. [Obs.]
To cleanse the quitture from thy wound. Chapman.

QUIVER
Quiv"er, a. Etym: [Akin to AS. cwiferlice anxiously; cf. OD. kuiven,
kuiveren. Cf. Quaver.]

Defn: Nimble; active. [Obs.] " A little quiver fellow." Shak.

QUIVER
Quiv"er, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Quivered; p. pr. & vb. n. Quivering.]
Etym: [Cf. Quaver.]

Defn: To shake or move with slight and tremulous motion; to tremble;
to quake; to shudder; to shiver.
The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind. Shak.
And left the limbs still quivering on the ground. Addison.

QUIVER
Quiv"er, n.

Defn: The act or state of quivering; a tremor.

QUIVER
Quiv"er, n. Etym: [OF. cuivre, cuevre, coivre, LL. cucurum, fr. OHG.
chohhari quiver, receptacle, G. köcher quiver; akin to AS. color,
cocur, cocer, D. koker. Cf. Cocker a high shoe.]

Defn: A case or sheath for arrows to be carried on the person.
Reside him hung his bow And quiver, with three-bolted thunder stored.
Milton.

QUIVERED
Quiv"ered, a.

1. Furnished with, or carrying, a quiver. "Like a quivered nymph with
arrows keen." Milton.

2. Sheathed, as in a quiver. "Whose quills stand quivered at his
ear." Pope.

QUIVERINGLY
Quiv"er*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With quivering motion.

QUI VIVE
Qui` vive". Etym: [F., fr. qui who + vive, pres. subj. of vivre to
live.]

Defn: The challenge of a French sentinel, or patrol; -- used like the
English challenge: "Who comes there" To be on the qui vive, to be on
guard; to be watchful and alert, like a sentinel.

QUIXOTIC
Quix*ot"ic, a.

Defn: Like Don Quixote; romantic to extravagance; absurdly chivalric;
apt to be deluded. "Feats of quixotic gallantry." Prescott.

QUIXOTICALLY
Quix*ot"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a quixotic way.

QUIXOTISM
Quix"ot*ism, n.

Defn: That form of delusion which leads to extravagant and absurd
undertakings or sacrifices in obedience to a morbidly romantic ideal
of duty or honor, as illustrated by the exploits of Don Quixote in
knight-errantry.

QUIXOTRY
Quix"ot*ry, n.

Defn: Quixotism; visionary schemes.

QUIZ
Quiz, n. Etym: [It is said that Daly, the manager of a Dublin
playhouse, laid a wager that a new word of no meaning should be the
common talk and puzzle of the city in twenty-fours. In consequence of
this the letters q u i z were chalked by him on all the walls of
Dublin, with an effect that won the wager. Perhaps, however,
originally a variant of whiz, and formerly the name of a popular
game.]

1. A riddle or obscure question; an enigma; a ridiculous hoax.

2. One who quizzes others; as, he is a great quiz.

3. An odd or absurd fellow. Smart. Thackeray.

4. An exercise, or a course of exercises, conducted as a coaching or
as an examination. [Cant, U.S.]

QUIZ
Quiz, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quizzed; p. pr. & vb. n. Quizzing.]

1. To puzzle; to banter; to chaff or mock with pretended seriousness
of discourse; to make sport of, as by obscure questions.
He quizzed unmercifully all the men in the room. Thackeray.

2. To peer at; to eye suspiciously or mockingly.

3. To instruct in or by a quiz. See Quiz, n., 4. [U.S.] Quizzing
glass, a small eyeglass.

QUIZ
Quiz, v. i.

Defn: To conduct a quiz. See Quiz, n., 4. [U.S.]

QUIZZER
Quiz"zer, n.

Defn: One who quizzes; a quiz.

QUIZZICAL
Quiz"zic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to quizzing: given to quizzing; of the nature of a
quiz; farcical; sportive.
 -- Quiz"zic*al*ly, adv.

QUIZZISM
Quiz"zism, n.

Defn: The act or habit of quizzing.

QUOB
Quob, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Quaver.] [Written also quop and quab.]

Defn: To throb; to quiver. [Local & Vulgar]

QUOD
Quod, n. Etym: [For quad, abbrev. of quadrangle.]

Defn: A quadrangle or court, as of a prison; hence, a prison. [Slang]
"Flogged or whipped in quod." T. Hughes.

QUOD
Quod, v.

Defn: Quoth; said. See Quoth. [Obs.]
"Let be," quod he, "it shall not be." Chaucer.

QUODDIES
Quod"dies, n. pl.

Defn: Herring taken and cured or smoked near Quoddy Head, Maine, or
near the entrance of Passamaquoddy Ray.

QUODLIBET
Quod"li*bet, n. Etym: [L., what you please.]

1. A nice point; a subtilty; a debatable point.
These are your quodlibets, but no learning. P. Fletcher.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A medley improvised by several performers.

QUODLIBETARIAN
Quod"lib*e*ta"ri*an, n.

Defn: One who discusses any subject at pleasure.

QUODLIBETICAL
Quod"li*bet"ic*al, a.

Defn: Not restricted to a particular subject; discussed for curiosity
or entertainment.
 -- Quod`li*bet"ic*al*ly, adv.

QUOIF
Quoif, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Coif. Shak.

QUOIFFURE
Quoif"fure, n.

Defn: See Coiffure.

QUOIL
Quoil, n.

Defn: See Coil. [Obs.]

QUOIN
Quoin, n. Etym: [See Coin, and cf. Coigne.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: Originally, a solid exterior angle, as of a building; now,
commonly, one of the selected pieces of material by which the corner
is marked.

Note: In stone, the quoins consist of blocks larger than those used
in the rest of the building, and cut to dimension. In brickwork,
quoins consist of groups or masses of brick laid together, and in a
certain imitation of quoins of stone.

2. A wedgelike piece of stone, wood metal, or other material, used
for various purposes, as: (a) (Masonry)

Defn: to support and steady a stone.
(b) (Gun.) To support the breech of a cannon.
(c) (Print.) To wedge or lock up a form within a chase. (d) (Naut.)
To prevent casks from rolling. Hollow quoin. See under Hollow.
 -- Quoin post (Canals), the post of a lock gate which abuts against
the wall.

QUOIT
Quoit, n. Etym: [OE. coite; cf. OF. coitier to spur, press, (assumed)
LL. coctare, fr. L. coquere, coctum, to cook, burn, vex, harass, E.
cook, also W. coete a quoit.]

1.
(a) A flattened ring-shaped piece of iron, to be pitched at a fixed
object in play; hence, any heavy flat missile used for the same
purpose, as a stone, piece of iron, etc. (b) pl.

Defn: A game played with quoits. Shak.

2. The discus of the ancients. See Discus.

3. A cromlech. [Prov. Eng.] J. Morley.

QUOIT
Quoit, v. i.

Defn: To throw quoits; to play at quoits.
To quoit, to run, and steeds and chariots drive. Dryden.

QUOIT
Quoit, v. t.

Defn: To throw; to pitch. [Obs. or R.] Shak.

QUOKE
Quoke, obs.

Defn: imp. of Quake. Chaucer.

QUOLL
Quoll, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marsupial of Australia (Dasyurus macrurus), about the size of
a cat.

QUONDAM
Quon"dam, a. Etym: [L., formerly.]

Defn: Having been formerly; former; sometime. "This is the quondam
king." Shak.

QUONDAM
Quon"dam, n.

Defn: A person dismissed or ejected from a position. [R.] "Make them
quondams; . . . cast them out of their office." Latimer.

QUOOK
Quook,

Defn: imp. of Quake. [Obs.] Spenser.

QUOP
Quop, v. i.

Defn: See Quob.

QUORUM
Quo"rum, n. Etym: [L., of whom, gen. pl. of qui who, akin to E. who.
See the Note below.]

Defn: Such a number of the officers or members of any body as is
competent by law or constitution to transact business; as, a quorum
of the House of Representatives; a constitutional quorum was not
present.

Note: The term arose from the Latin words, Quorum aliquem vestrum . .
. unum esse volumus (of whom we wish some one of you to be one),
which were used in the commission formerly issued to justices of the
peace in England, by which commission it was directed that no
business of certain kinds should be done without the presence of one
or more of certain justices specially designated. Justice of the
peace and of the quorum designates a class of justices of the peace
in some of the United States.

QUOTA
Quo"ta, n. Etym: [LL., fr. L. quota (sc. pars), fr.quotus which or
what in number, of what number, how many, fr. quot how many, akin to
quis, qui, who: cf. It. quota a share. See Who.]

Defn: A proportional part or share; the share or proportion assigned
to each in a division. "Quota of troops and money." Motley.

QUOTABLE
Quot"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable or worthy of being quoted; as, a quotable writer; a
quotable sentence.
 -- Quot`a*bit"i*ty, n. Poe.

QUOTATION
Quo*ta"tion, n. Etym: [From Quote.]

1. The act of quoting or citing.

2. That which is quoted or cited; a part of a book or writing named,
repeated, or adduced as evidence or illustration. Locke.

3. (Com.)

Defn: The naming or publishing of the current price of stocks, bonds,
or any commodity; also the price named.

4. Quota; share. [Obs.]

5. (print.)

Defn: A piece of hollow type metal, lower than type, and measuring
two or more pica ems in length and breadth, used in the blank spaces
at the beginning and end of chapters, etc. Quotation marks (Print.),
two inverted commas placed at the beginning, and two apostrophes at
the end, of a passage quoted from an author in his own words.

QUOTATIONIST
Quo*ta"tion*ist n.

Defn: One who makes, or is given to making, quotations.
The narrow intellectuals of quotationists. Milton.

QUOTE
Quote, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quoted; p. pr. & vb. n. Quoting.] Etym:
[OF. quoter, F. coter to letter, number, to quote, LL. quotare to
divide into chapters and verses, fr. L. quotus. See Quota.] [Formerly
written also cote.]

1. To cite, as a passage from some author; to name, repeat, or
adduce, as a passage from an author or speaker, by way of authority
or illustration; as, to quote a passage from Homer.

2. To cite a passage from; to name as the authority for a statement
or an opinion; as, to quote Shakespeare.

3. (Com.)

Defn: To name the current price of.

4. To notice; to observe; to examine. [Obs.] Shak.

5. To set down, as in writing. [Obs.] "He's quoted for a most
perfidious slave." Shak.

Syn.
 -- To cite; name; adduce; repeat. Quote, Cite. To cite was
originally to call into court as a witness, etc., and hence denotes
bringing forward any thing or person as evidence. Quote usually
signifies to reproduce another's words; it is also used to indicate
an appeal to some one as an authority, without adducing his exact
words.

QUOTE
Quote, n.

Defn: A note upon an author. [Obs.] Cotgrave.

QUOTER
Quot"er, n.

Defn: One who quotes the words of another.

QUOTH
Quoth, v. t. Etym: [AS.cweedhan, imp cwæedh, pl. cwædon; akin to OS.
queedhan, OHG. quethan, quedan, Icel. kveedha, Goth. qiþan. sq.
root22. Cf. Bequeath.]

Defn: Said; spoke; uttered; -- used only in the first and third
persons in the past tenses, and always followed by its nominative,
the word or words said being the object; as, quoth I. quoth he. "Let
me not live, quoth he." Shak.

QUOTHA
Quoth"a, interj. Etym: [For quoth'a, said he, 'a being corrupted from
he.]

Defn: Indeed; forsooth.
To affront the blessed hillside drabs and thieves With mended morals,
quotha, -- fine new lives ! Mrs. Browning.

QUOTIDIAN
Quo*tid"i*an a. Etym: [OE. cotidian, L. quotidianus, fr. quotidie
daily; quotus how many + dies day: cf. OF. cotidien, F. quotidien.
See Quota, Deity.]

Defn: Occurring or returning daily; as, a quotidian fever.

QUOTIDIAN
Quo*tid"i*an, n.

Defn: Anything returning daily; especially (Med.), an intermittent
fever or ague which returns every day. Milton.

QUOTIENT
Quo"tient, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. quoties how often, how many times,
fr. quot how many. See Quota.]

1. (Arith.)

Defn: The number resulting from the division of one number by
another, and showing how often a less number is contained in a
greater; thus, the quotient of twelve divided by four is three.

2. (Higher Alg.)

Defn: The result of any process inverse to multiplication. See the
Note under Multiplication.

QUOTIETY
Quo*ti"e*ty, n. Etym: [L.quotus of what number, quot how many.]
(Scholastic Philos.)

Defn: The relation of an object to number. Krauth-Fleming.

QUOTUM
Quo"tum n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. quotus of what number. See Quota.]

Defn: Part or proportion; quota. [R.] "A very small quotum." Max
Müller.

QUO WARRANTO
Quo" war*ran"to. Etym: [So called from the Law L. words quo warranto
(by what authority), in the original Latin form of the writ. See
Which, and Warrant.] (Law)

Defn: A writ brought before a proper tribunal, to inquire by what
warrant a person or a corporation acts, or exercises certain powers.
Blackstone.

Note: An information in the nature of a quo warranto is now common as
a substitute for the writ. Wharton.

QURAN
Qu*ran", n.

Defn: See Koran.


[END]

End of Project Gutenberg's Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***

***** This file should be named 29765-8.txt or 29765-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/7/6/29765/

Produced by Graham Lawrence

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
