The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***




Produced by Graham Lawrence

[START]

X
X (eks).

Defn: X, the twenty-fourth letter of the English alphabet, has three
sounds; a compound nonvocal sound (that of ks), as in wax; a compound
vocal sound (that of gz), as in example; and, at the beginning of a
word, a simple vocal sound (that of z), as in xanthic.  See Guide to
Pronunciation, §§ 217, 270, 271.

The form and value of X are from the Latin X, which is from the Greek
X, which in some Greek alphabets had the value of ks, though in the
one now in common use it represents an aspirated sound of k.

XANTHAMIDE
Xanth*am"ide, n. [Xanthic + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: An amido derivative of xanthic acid obtained as a white
crystalline substance, C2H5O.CS.NH2; -- called also xanthogen amide.

XANTHATE
Xan"thate, n. [See Xanthic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of xanthic; a xanthogenate.

XANTHELASMA
Xan`the*las"ma, n. [NL.; Gr. xanqo`s yellow + 'e`lasma a metal
plate.] (Med.)

Defn: See Xanthoma.

XANTHIAN
Xan"thi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Xanthus, an ancient town on Asia Minor; --
applied especially to certain marbles found near that place, and now
in the British Museum.

XANTHIC
Xan"thic, a. [Gr. xanqo`s yellow: cf. F. xanthique.]

1. Tending toward a yellow color, or to one of those colors, green
being excepted, in which yellow is a constituent, as scarlet, orange,
etc.

2. (Chem.)
 (a) Possessing, imparting, or producing a yellow color; as, xanthic
acid.
 (b) Of or pertaining to xanthic acid, or its compounds; xanthogenic.
 (c) Of or pertaining to xanthin.

Xanthic acid (Chem.), a heavy, astringent, colorless oil,
C2H5O.CS.SH, having a pungent odor. It is produced by leading carbon
disulphide into a hot alcoholic solution of potassium hydroxide. So
called from the yellow color of many of its salts. Called also
xanthogenic acid. -- Xanthic colors (Bot.), those colors (of flowers)
having some tinge of yellow; -- opposed to cyanic colors.  See under
Cyanic.

XANTHIDE
Xan"thide, n. [See Xantho-.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound or derivative of xanthogen. [Archaic]

XANTHIDIUM
Xan*thid"i*um, n.; pl. Xanthidia (#). [NL., fr. Gr. xanqo`s yellow.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of minute unicellular algæ of the desmids. These algæ
have a rounded shape and are armed with glochidiate or branched
aculei. Several species occur in ditches, and others are found fossil
in flint or hornstone.

XANTHIN
Xan"thin, n. [Gr. xanqo`s yellow.]

1. (Physiol. Chem.) A crystalline nitrogenous body closely related to
both uric acid and hypoxanthin, present in muscle tissue, and
occasionally found in the urine and in some urinary calculi. It is
also present in guano. So called from the yellow color of certain of
its salts (nitrates).

2. (Chem.) A yellow insoluble coloring matter extracted from yellow
flowers; specifically, the coloring matter of madder.  [Formerly
written also xanthein.]

3. (Chem.) One of the gaseous or volatile decomposition products of
the xanthates, and probably identical with carbon disulphide.  [Obs.]

XANTHINE; XANTHIN
Xan"thine, n. Also Xan"thin . [Gr. xanqo`s yellow.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A white microcrystalline nitrogenous compound, C5H4O2N4,
present in muscle tissue, in the liver, spleen, pancreas, and other
organs, and also in urine (in small quantities) and some urinary
calculi, and in the juices of certain plants; -- so called because it
leaves a yellow residue when evaporated to dryness with nitric acid.
Xanthine is closely related to uric acid.

XANTHININE
Xan"thi*nine, n. [Gr. xanqo`s yellow + quinine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A complex nitrogenous substance related to urea and uric acid,
produced as a white powder; -- so called because it forms yellow
salts, and because its solution forms a blue fluorescence like
quinine.

XANTHIUM
Xan"thi*um, n. [NL., fr. Gr. xa`nqion a plant used for dyeing the
hair yellow, said to be the Xanthium strumarium, from xanqo`s
yellow.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of composite plants in which the scales of the
involucre are united so as to form a kind of bur; cocklebur; clotbur.

XANTHO-
Xan"tho-.

Defn: A combining form from Gr. xanqo`s yellow; as in xanthocobaltic
salts. Used also adjectively in chemistry.

XANTHOCARPOUS
Xan`tho*car"pous, a. [Xantho-+ Gr. karpo`s fruit.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having yellow fruit.

XANTHOCHROI
Xan*thoch"ro*i, n. pl. [NL.  See Xanthochroic.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: A division of the Caucasian races, comprising the lighter-
colored members.

The Xanthochroi, or fair whites, . . . are the prevalent inhabitants
of Northern Europe, and the type may be traced into North Africa, and
eastward as far as Hindostan.
Tylor.

XANTHOCHROIC
Xan`tho*chro"ic, a. [Xantho-+ Gr. chro`a color.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: Having a yellowish or fair complexion; of or pertaining to the
Xanthochroi.

XANTHOCHROID
Xan"tho*chroid, a. [See under Xanthrochroic, -oid.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: Having a yellowish or fair complexion. -- n.

Defn: A person having xanthochroid traits.

XANTHOCHROISM
Xan*thoch"ro*ism, n.

Defn: Abnormal coloration of feathers in which yellow replaces the
normal color, as in certain parrots. It is commonly due to lack of
the dark pigment which with yellow forms green.

XANTHODONTOUS
Xan`tho*don"tous, a. [Xantho-+ Gr. 'odoy`s, 'odo`ntos, tooth.]

Defn: Having yellow teeth.

XANTHOGEN
Xan"tho*gen, n. [Xantho- + -gen.] (Chem.)
 (a) The hypothetical radical supposed to be characteristic of
xanthic acid. [Archaic]
 (b) Persulphocyanogen.  [R.]

XANTHOGENATE
Xan"tho*gen*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of xanthic acid.

XANTHOGENIC
Xan`tho*gen"ic, a. [See Xantho-, and -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: Producing a yellow color or compound; xanthic.  See Xanthic
acid, under Xanthic.

XANTHOMA
Xan*tho"ma, n. [NL.  See Xantho-, and -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A skin disease marked by the development or irregular yellowish
patches upon the skin, especially upon the eyelids; -- called also
xanthelasma.

XANTHOMATOUS
Xan*thom"a*tous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to xanthoma.

XANTHOMELANOUS
Xan`tho*mel"a*nous, a. [Pref. xantho- + Gr. , , black.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the lighter division of the Melanochroi, or
those races having an olive or yellow complexion and black hair.

XANTHOPHANE
Xan"tho*phane, n. [Xantho- + Gr. fai`nein to show.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The yellow pigment present in the inner segments of the retina
in animals.  See Chromophane.

XANTHOPHYLL
Xan"tho*phyll, n. [Xantho- + Gr. fy`llon leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: A yellow coloring matter found in yellow autumn leaves, and
also produced artificially from chlorophyll; -- formerly called also
phylloxanthin.

XANTHOPOUS
Xan"tho*pous, a. [Xantho- + Gr. poy`s, podo`s, foot.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having a yellow stipe, or stem.

XANTHOPROTEIC
Xan`tho*pro*te"ic, a. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, xanthoprotein; showing the
characters of xanthoprotein; as, xanthoproteic acid; the
xanthoproteic reaction for albumin.

XANTHOPROTEIN
Xan`tho*pro"te*in, n. [Xantho-+ protein.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A yellow acid substance formed by the action of hot nitric acid
on albuminous or proteid matter. It is changed to a deep orange-
yellow color by the addition of ammonia.

XANTHOPUCCINE
Xan`tho*puc"cine, n. [Xantho-+ puccoon + -ine.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of three alkaloids found in the root of the yellow puccoon
(Hydrastis Canadensis). It is a yellow crystalline substance, and
resembles berberine.

XANTHORHAMNIN
Xan`tho*rham"nin, n. [Xantho-+ NL. Rhamnus, the generic name of the
plant bearing Persian berries.] (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside extracted from Persian berries as a yellow
crystalline powder, used as a dyestuff.

XANTHORHIZA
Xan`tho*rhi"za, n. [NL., fr. Gr. xanqo`s yellow + "ri`za root.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of shrubby ranunculaceous plants of North America,
including only the species Xanthorhiza apiifolia, which has roots of
a deep yellow color; yellowroot. The bark is intensely bitter, and is
sometimes used as a tonic.

XANTHORHOEA
Xan`tho*rhoe"a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. xanqo`s yellow + (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of endogenous plants, native to Australia, having a
thick, sometimes arborescent, stem, and long grasslike leaves. See
Grass tree.

XANTHOSE
Xan"those, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An orange-yellow substance found in pigment spots of certain
crabs.

XANTHOSIS
Xan*tho"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. xanqo`s yellow.] (Med.)

Defn: The yellow discoloration often observed in cancerous tumors.

XANTHOSPERMOUS
Xan`tho*sper"mous, a. Etym: [Xantho- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having yellow seeds.

XANTHOUS
Xan"thous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Yellow; specifically (Ethnol.), of or pertaining to those races
of man which have yellowish, red, auburn, or brown hair.

XANTHOXYLENE
Xan*thox"y*lene, n. Etym: [See Xanthoxylum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A liquid hydrocarbon of the terpene series extracted from the
seeds of a Japanese prickly ash (Xanthoxylum pipertium) as an
aromatic oil.

XANTHOXYLUM
Xan*thox"y*lum, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. xanqo`s yellow + xy`lon
wood.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of prickly shrubs or small trees, the bark and rots of
which are of a deep yellow color; prickly ash.

Note: The commonest species in the Northern United States is
Xanthoxylum Americanum. See Prickly ash, under Prickly.

XEBEC
Xe"bec, n. Etym: [Sp. jabegue, formerly spelt xabeque, or Pg. xabeco;
both from Turk. sumbeki a kind of Asiatic ship; cf. Per. sumbuk, Ar.
sumb a small ship.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small three-masted vessel, with projecting bow stern and
convex decks, used in the Mediterranean for transporting merchandise,
etc. It carries large square sails, or both. Xebecs were formerly
armed and used by corsairs.

XEME
Xeme (zem), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Arctic fork-tailed gull (Xema Sabinii).

XENELASIA
Xen`e*la"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A Spartan institution which prohibited strangers from residing
in Sparta without permission, its object probably being to preserve
the national simplicity of manners.

XENIUM
Xe"ni*um, n.; pl. Xenia. Etym: [L., from Gr. (Class. Antiq.)

Defn: A present given to a guest or stranger, or to a foreign
ambassador.

XENODOCHIUM
Xen`o*do*chi"um, n. Etym: [LL., fr. L. xenodochium a building for the
reception of strangers, Gr. (a) (Class. Antiq.)

Defn: A house for the reception of strangers.
(b) In the Middle Ages, a room in a monastery for the reception and
entertainment of strangers and pilgrims, and for the relief of
paupers. [Called also Xenodocheion.]

XENODOCHY
Xe*nod"o*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Reception of strangers; hospitality. [R.]

XENOGAMY
Xe*nog"a*my, n. Etym: [Gr. xe`nos strange, foreign + (Bot.)

Defn: Cross fertilization.

XENOGENESIS
Xen`o*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. xe`nos a stranger + E. genesis.]
(Biol.)
(a) Same as Heterogenesis.
(b) The fancied production of an organism of one kind by an organism
of another. Huxley.

XENOGENETIC
Xen`o*ge*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to xenogenesis; as, the xenogenetic origin of
microzymes. Huxley.

XENOMANIA
Xen`o*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Gr. xe`nos strange + E. mania.]

Defn: A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, foreign customs,
institutions, manners, fashions, etc. [R.] Saintsbury.

XENOMI
Xen"o*mi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. xe`nos strange.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of soft-rayed fresh-water fishes of which the
blackfish of Alaska (Dallia pectoralis) is the type.

XENON
Xen"on, n. [Gr. , neut. of  strange.] (Chem.)

Defn: A very heavy, inert gaseous element occurring in the atmosphere
in the proportion of one volume is about 20 millions. It was
discovered by Ramsay and Travers in 1898. It can be condensed to a
liquid boiling at -109º C., and to a solid which volatilizes without
melting. Symbol Xe or X; atomic weight 130.2.

XENOPTERYGII
Xe*nop`te*ryg"i*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. xe`nos strange +
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of fishes including Gobiesox and allied genera.
These fishes have soft-rayed fins, and a ventral sucker supported in
front by the pectoral fins. They are destitute of scales.

XENOTIME
Xen"o*time, n. Etym: [Gr. xe`nos guest, stranger + xenotim.] (Min.)

Defn: A native phosphate of yttrium occurring in yellowish-brown
tetragonal crystals.

XENURINE
Xe*nu"rine, n. Etym: [Gr. xe`nos strange + (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cabassou.

XENYL
Xen"yl, n. Etym: [Gr. xe`nos strange + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The radical characteristic of xenylic compounds.

XENYLIC
Xe*nyl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, designating, certain amido
compounds obtained by reducing certain nitro derivatives of diphenyl.

XERAPHIM
Xer"a*phim, n. Etym: [Pg. xarafin, xerafin, fr. Ar. ashrafi noble,
the name of a gold coin.]

Defn: An old money of account in Bombay, equal to three fifths of a
rupee.

XERES
Xer"es, n.

Defn: Sherry. See Sherry.

XERIF
Xer"if, n.

Defn: A shereef.

XERIFF
Xer"iff, n. Etym: [See Shereef.]

Defn: A gold coin formerly current in Egypt and Turkey, of the value
of about 9s. 6d., or about $2.30; -- also, in Morocco, a ducat.

XERODERMA
Xe`ro*der"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)
(a) Ichthyosis.
(b) A skin disease characterized by the presence of numerous small
pigmented spots resembling freckles, with which are subsequently
mingled spots of atrophied skin.

XERONATE
Xe"ro*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of xeronic acid.

XERONIC
Xe*ron"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. conic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C8H12O4, related to
fumaric acid, and obtained from citraconic acid as an oily substance
having a bittersweet taste; -- so called from its tendency to form
its anhydride.

XEROPHAGY
Xe*roph"a*gy, n. Etym: [L. xerophagia, Gr.

Defn: Among the primitive Christians, the living on a diet of dry
food in Lent and on other fasts.

XEROPHILOUS
Xe*roph"i*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Drought-loving; able withstand the absence or lack of moisture.
Plants which are peculiarly adapted to dry climates are termed by De
Candolle xerophilous. Goodale.

XEROPHTHALMIA
Xe`roph*thal"mi*a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Ophthalmia.] (Med.)

Defn: An abnormal dryness of the eyeball produced usually by long-
continued inflammation and subsequent atrophy of the conjunctiva.

XEROPHTHALMY
Xe`roph*thal"my, n. (Med.)

Defn: Xerophthalmia.

XIPHIAS
Xiph"i*as, n. Etym: [L., a swordfish, a sword-shaped comet, fr. Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fishes comprising the common swordfish.

2. (Anat.)
(a) The constellation Dorado.
(b) A comet shaped like a sword

XIPHIDIUM
Xi*phid"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. xi`fos sword.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the order Hæmodraceæ, having two-ranked,
sword-shaped leaves.

XIPHIOID
Xiph"i*oid, a. Etym: [Xiphius + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cetacean of the genus
Xiphius or family Xiphiidæ.

XIPHIPLASTRON
Xiph"i*plas"tron, n.; pl. Xiphiplastra. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. xi`fos a
sword + plastron.] (Anat.)

Defn: The posterior, or fourth, lateral plate in the plastron of
turtles; -- called also xiphisternum.

XIPHISTERNUM
Xiph"i*ster"num, n.; pl. Xiphisterna. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. xi`fos a
sword + sternum.] (Anat.)
(a) The posterior segment, or extremity, of the sternum; -- sometimes
called metasternum, ensiform cartilage, ensiform process, or xiphoid
process.
(b) The xiphiplastron.
 -- Xiph"i*ster"nal a.

XIPHIUS
Xiph"i*us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. xi`fos a sword.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of cetaceans having a long, pointed, bony beak, usually
two tusklike teeth in the lower jaw, but no teeth in the upper jaw.

XIPHODON
Xiph"o*don, n. Etym: [Gr. xi`fos a sword + (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of artiodactylous mammals found in the
European Tertiary formations. It had slender legs, didactylous feet,
and small canine teeth.

XIPHOID
Xiph"oid, a. Etym: [Gr. xi`fos a sword + xiphoide.] (Anat.)
(a) Like a sword; ensiform.
(b) Of or pertaining to the xiphoid process; xiphoidian.

XIPHOIDIAN
Xiph*oid"i*an, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Xiphoid.

XIPHOPHYLLOUS
Xi*phoph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. xi`fos sword + (Bot.)

Defn: Having sword-shaped leaves.

XIPHOSURA
Xiph`o*su"ra, n. pl.

Defn: See Xiphura.

XIPHURA
Xi*phu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. xi`fos sword + (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Limuloidea. Called also Xiphosura. X ray. See under
Ray.

XP
XP. [Belongs here in appearance only.]

Defn: The first two letters of the Greek word XRISTOS, Christ; -- an
abbreviation used with the letters separate or, oftener, in a
monogram, often inclosed in a circle, as a symbol or emblem of
Christ. It use as an emblem was introduced by Constantine the Great,
whence it is known as the Constantinian symbol, or monogram. See
Labarum.

X RAYS; X-RAYS
X rays, or X"-rays`, n. pl.

Defn: The Röntgen rays; -- so called by their discoverer because of
their enigmatical character.

X-RAY TUBE
X"-ray" tube. (Physics)

Defn: A vacuum tube suitable for producing Röntgen rays.

XYLAMIDE
Xy*lam"ide, n. Etym: [Xylic + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: An acid amide derivative of xylic acid, obtained as a white
crystalline substance.

XYLAN
Xy"lan, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A gummy substance of the pentosan class, present in woody
tissue, and yielding xylose on hydrolysis; wood gum.

XYLANTHRAX
Xy*lan"thrax, n. Etym: [Gr. xy`lon wood +

Defn: Wood coal, or charcoal; -- so called in distinction from
mineral coal.

XYLATE
Xy"late, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of xylic acid.

XYLEM
Xy"lem, n. Etym: [Gr. xy`lon wood.] (Bot.)

Defn: That portion of a fibrovascular bundle which has developed, or
will develop, into wood cells; -- distinguished from phloëm.

XYLENE
Xy"lene, n. Etym: [Gr. xy`lon wood.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any of a group of three metameric hydrocarbons of the aromatic
series, found in coal and wood tar, and so named because found in
crude wood spirit. They are colorless, oily, inflammable liquids,
C6H4.(CH3)2, being dimethyl benzenes, and are called respectively
orthoxylene, metaxylene, and paraxylene. Called also xylol.

Note: Each of these xylenes is the nucleus and prototype of a
distinct series of compounds.

XYLENOL
Xy"le*nol, n. Etym: [Xylene + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of six metameric phenol derivatives of xylene, obtained
as crystalline substances, (CH3)2.C6H3.OH.

XYLETIC
Xy*let"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid related to
mesitylenic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance by the
action of sodium and carbon dioxide on crude xylenol.

XYLIC
Xy"lic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, xylene;
specifically, designating any one of several metameric acids produced
by the partial oxidation of mesitylene and pseudo-cumene.

XYLIDIC
Xy*lid"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, either one of two distinct acids
which are derived from xylic acid and related compounds, and are
metameric with uvitic acid.

XYLIDINE
Xy"li*dine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of six metameric hydrocarbons, (CH3)2.C6H3.NH2,
resembling aniline, and related to xylene. They are liquids, or
easily fusible crystalline substances, of which three are derived
from metaxylene, two from orthoxylene, and one from paraxylene. They
are called the amido xylenes.

Note: The xylidine of commerce, used in making certain dyes, consists
chiefly of the derivatives of paraxylene and metaxylene.

XYLINDEIN
Xy*lin"de*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A green or blue pigment produced by Peziza in certain kinds of
decayed wood, as the beech, oak, birch, etc., and extracted as an
amorphous powder resembling indigo.

XYLITE
Xy"lite, n. Etym: [Gr. xy`lon wood.] (Chem.)

Defn: A liquid hydrocarbon found in crude wood spirits.

XYLITONE
Xy"li*tone, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow oil having a geraniumlike odor, produced as a side
product in making phorone; -- called also xylite oil.

XYLO-
Xy"lo-.

Defn: A combining form from Gr. xy`lon wood; as in xylogen,
xylograph.

XYLOBALSAMUM
Xy`lo*bal"sa*mum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. xy`lon wood + xylobalsamum
balsam wood, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The dried twigs of a Syrian tree (Balsamodendron Gileadense).
U. S. Disp.

XYLOCARPOUS
Xy`lo*car"pous, a. Etym: [Xylo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing fruit which becomes hard or woody.

XYLOCOPA
Xy*loc"o*pa, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. xy`lon wood + (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of hymenopterous insects including the carpenter. See
Carpenter bee, under Carpenter.
 -- Xy*loc"o*pine, a.

XYLOGEN
Xy"lo*gen, n. Etym: [Xylo- + -gen.]
(a) (Bot.) Nascent wood; wood cells in a forming state.
(b) Lignin.

XYLOGRAPH
Xy"lo*graph, n. Etym: [Xylo- + -graph.]

Defn: An engraving on wood, or the impression from such an engraving;
a print by xylography.

XYLOGRAPHER
Xy*log"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who practices xylography.

XYLOGRAPHIC; XYLOGRAPHICAL
Xy`lo*graph"ic, Xy`lo*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. xylographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to xylography, or wood engraving.

XYLOGRAPHY
Xy*log"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Xylo- + -graphy: cf. F. xylographie.]

1. The art of engraving on wood.

2. The art of making prints from the natural grain of wood. Knight.

3. A method pf printing in colors upon wood for purposes of house
decoration. Ure.

XYLOID
Xy"loid, a. Etym: [Xylo- + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling wood; having the nature of wood.

XYLOIDIN
Xy*loid"in, n. Etym: [Xylo- + -oid.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance resembling pyroxylin, obtained by the action of
nitric acid on starch; -- called also nitramidin.

XYLOL
Xy"lol, n. Etym: [Xylo- + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Xylene.

XYLOLOGY
Xy*lol"o*gy, n. [Pref. xylo-+ -logy.]

Defn: The branch of dendrology treating of the gross and minute
structure of wood.

XYLONITE
Xy"lon*ite, n.

Defn: See Zylonite.

XYLOPHAGA
Xy*loph"a*ga, n. Etym: [NL. See Xylophagous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine bivalves which bore holes in wood. They are
allied to Pholas.

XYLOPHAGAN
Xy*loph"a*gan, n. Etym: [See Xylophagous.] (Zoöl.)
(a) One of a tribe of beetles whose larvæ bore or live in wood.
(b) Any species of Xylophaga.
(c) Any one of the Xylophagides.

XYLOPHAGIDES
Xy`lo*phag"i*des, n. pl. Etym: [See Xylophagous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tribe or family of dipterous flies whose larvæ live in
decayed wood. Some of the tropical species are very large.

XYLOPHAGOUS
Xy*loph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr. xy`lon wood + (Zoöl.)
(a) Eating, boring in, or destroying, wood; -- said especially of
certain insect larvæ, crustaceans, and mollusks.
(b) Of or pertaining to the genus Xylophaga.

XYLOPHILAN
Xy*loph"i*lan, n. Etym: [See Xylophilous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a tribe of beetles (Xylophili) whose larvæ live on
decayed wood.

XYLOPHILOUS
Xy*loph"i*lous, a. Etym: [Xylo- + Gr. filei^n to love.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the xylophilans.

XYLOPHONE
Xy"lo*phone, n. Etym: [Xylo- + Gr. fwnh` sound.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument common among the Russians, Poles, and Tartars,
consisting of a series of strips of wood or glass graduated in length
to the musical scale, resting on belts of straw, and struck with two
small hammers. Called in Germany strohfiedel, or straw fiddle.

2. An instrument to determine the vibrative properties of different
kinds of wood. Knight.

XYLOPLASTIC
Xy`lo*plas"tic, a. Etym: [Xylo- + -plastic.] (Technol.)

Defn: Formed of wood pulp by molds; relating to casts made of wood
pulp in molds.

XYLOPYROGRAPHY
Xy`lo*py*rog"ra*phy. n. Etym: [Xylo- + Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The art or practice of burning pictures on wood with a hot
iron; -- called also poker painting. See Poker picture, under Poker.

XYLOQUINONE
Xy`lo*qui"none, n. Etym: [Xylene + quinone.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a group of quinone compounds obtained respectively
by the oxidation of certain xylidine compounds. In general they are
yellow crystalline substances.

XYLORCIN
Xy*lor"cin, n. Etym: [Xylene + orcin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A derivative of xylene obtained as a white crystalline
substance which on exposure in the air becomes red; -- called also
betaorcin.

XYLOSE
Xy"lose, n. [Pref. xylo- + -ose.] (Chem.)

Defn: An unfermentable sugar of the pentose class, C5H10O5, formed by
the hydrolysis of xylan; wood sugar.

XYLOSTEIN
Xy*los"te*in, n. Etym: [Xylo- + Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside found in the poisonous berries of a species of
honeysuckle (Lonicera xylosteum), and extracted as a bitter, white,
crystalline substance.

XYLOTILE
Xy"lo*tile, n.

Defn: Same as Parkesine.

XYLOTOMIST
Xy*lot"o*mist, n.

Defn: One versed or engaged in xylotomy.

XYLOTOMOUS
Xy*lot"o*mous, a. [Pref. xylo-+ root of Gr.  to cut.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Capable of boring or cutting wood; -- said of many insects.

XYLOTOMY
Xy*lot"o*my, n. [Pref. xylo-+ -tomy.]

Defn: Art of preparing sections (transverse, tangential, or radial)
of wood, esp. by means of a microtome, for microscopic examination.

XYLOTRYA
Xy*lo"try*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. xy`lon wood + (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine bivalves closely allied to Teredo, and
equally destructive to timber. One species (Xylotrya fimbriata) is
very common on the Atlantic coast of the United States.

XYLYL
Xy"lyl, n. Etym: [Xylo- + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of three metameric radicals which are characteristic
respectively of the three xylenes.

XYLYLENE
Xy"lyl*ene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of three metameric radicals, CH2.C6H4.CH2, derived
respectively from the three xylenes. Often used adjectively; as,
xylylene alcohol.

XYRIDACEOUS
Xyr`i*da"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order (Xyrideæ) of endogenous
plants, of which Xyris is the type.

XYRIS
Xy"ris, n. Etym: [L., a kind of Iris, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of endogenous herbs with grassy leaves and small yellow
flowers in short, scaly-bracted spikes; yellow-eyed grass. There are
about seventeen species in the Atlantic United States.

XYST; XYSTUS
Xyst, Xys"tus, n. Etym: [L. xystus, Gr. (Anc. Arch.)

Defn: A long and open portico, for athletic exercises, as wrestling,
running, etc., for use in winter or in stormy weather.

XYSTARCH
Xyst"arch, n. Etym: [L. xystarches, Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: An office Dr. W. Smith.

XYSTER
Xys"ter, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for scraping bone.


[END]

End of Project Gutenberg's Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***

***** This file should be named 29765-8.txt or 29765-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/7/6/29765/

Produced by Graham Lawrence

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
