The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***




Produced by Graham Lawrence

[START]

Y

Defn: Y, the twenty-fifth letter of the English alphabet, at the
beginning of a word or syllable, except when a prefix (see Y-), is
usually a fricative vocal consonant; as a prefix, and usually in the
middle or at the end of a syllable, it is a vowel. See Guide to
Pronunciation, §§ 145, 178-9, 272.

Note: It derives its form from the Latin Y, which is from the Greek
u, i, o, and j. g; as in full, fill, AS. fyllan; E. crypt, grotto;
young, juvenile; day, AS. dæg. See U, I, and J, G.

Note: Y has been called the Pythagorean letter, because the Greek
letter

Y
Y, n.; pl. Y's ( or Ys.

Defn: Something shaped like the letter Y; a forked piece resembling
in form the letter Y. Specifically:
(a) One of the forked holders for supporting the telescope of a
leveling instrument, or the axis of a theodolite; a wye.
(b) A forked or bifurcated pipe fitting.
(c) (Railroads) A portion of track consisting of two diverging tracks
connected by a cross track. Y level (Surv.), an instrument for
measuring differences of level by means of a telescope resting in
Y's.
 -- Y moth (Zoöl.), a handsome European noctuid moth Plusia gamma)
which has a bright, silvery mark, shaped like the letter Y, on each
of the fore wings. Its larva, which is green with five dorsal white
species, feeds on the cabbage, turnip, bean, etc. Called also gamma
moth, and silver Y.

Y
Y, pron.

Defn: I. [Obs.] King Horn. Wyclif.

Y-; I-
Y-, or I-. Etym: [OE. y-, i-, AS. ge-, akin to D. & G. ge-, OHG. gi-,
ga-, Goth. ga-, and perhaps to Latin con-; originally meaning,
together. Cf. Com-, Aware, Enough, Handiwork, Ywis.]

Defn: A prefix of obscure meaning, originally used with verbs,
adverbs, adjectives, nouns, and pronouns. In the Middle English
period, it was little employed except with verbs, being chiefly used
with past participles, though occasionally with the infinitive
Ycleped, or yclept, is perhaps the only word not entirely obsolete
which shows this use.
That no wight mighte it see neither yheere. Chaucer.
Neither to ben yburied nor ybrent. Chaucer.

Note: Some examples of Chaucer's use of this prefix are; ibe, ibeen,
icaught, ycome, ydo, idoon, ygo, iproved, ywrought. It inough,
enough, it is combined with an adjective. Other examples are in the
Vocabulary. Spenser and later writers frequently employed this prefix
when affecting an archaic style, and sometimes used it incorrectly.

YA
Ya, adv.

Defn: Yea. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YACARE
Yac"a*re`, n. Etym: [See Jacare.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American crocodilian (Jacare sclerops) resembling the
alligator in size and habits. The eye orbits are connected together,
and surrounded by prominent bony ridges. Called also spectacled
alligator, and spectacled cayman. [Written also jacare.]

Note: The name is also applied to allied species.

YACCA
Yac"ca, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A West Indian name for two large timber trees (Podocarpus
coriaceus, and P. Purdicanus) of the Yew family. The wood, which is
much used, is pale brownish with darker streaks.

YACHT
Yacht, n. Etym: [D. jagt, jacht; perhaps properly, a jagen to chase,
hunt, akin to G. jagen, OHG. jag, of uncertain origin; or perhaps
akin to OHG. gahi quick, sudden (cf. Gay).] (Naut.)

Defn: A light and elegantly furnished vessel, used either for private
parties of pleasure, or as a vessel of state to convey distinguished
persons from one place to another; a seagoing vessel used only for
pleasure trips, racing, etc. Yacht measurement. See the Note under
Tonnage, 4.

YACHT
Yacht, v. i.

Defn: To manage a yacht; to voyage in a yacht.

YACHTER
Yacht"er, n.

Defn: One engaged in sailing a jacht.

YACHTING
Yacht"ing, n.

Defn: Sailing for pleasure in a yacht.

YACHTMAN
Yacht"man, n.

Defn: See Yachtsman.

YACHTSMAN
Yachts"man, n.; pl. Yachtsmen (.

Defn: One who owns or sails a yacht; a yachter.

YAF
Yaf, obs. imp. of Give. Etym: [AS. geaf, imp. of giefan to give. See
Give]

Defn: Gave. See Give. Chaucer.

YAFFINGALE
Yaf"fin*gale, n. Etym: [See Yaffle, and cf. Nightingale.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The yaffle. [Prov. Eng.]

YAFFLE
Yaf"fle, n. Etym: [Probably imitative of its call or cry.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European green woodpecker (Picus, or Genius, viridis). It
is noted for its loud laughlike note. Called also eccle, hewhole,
highhoe, laughing bird, popinjay, rain bird, yaffil, yaffler,
yaffingale, yappingale, yackel, and woodhack.

YAGER
Ya"ger, n. Etym: [G. jäger a hunter, from jagen to chase, hunt.]
(Mil.)

Defn: In the German army, one belonging to a body of light infantry
armed with rifles, resembling the chasseur of the French army.
[Written also jager.]

YAGUARUNDI
Ya`gua*run"di, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Jaguarondi. [Written also yaguarondi, and yagouarondi.]

YAHOO
Ya"hoo, n.

1. One of a race of filthy brutes in Swift's "Gulliver's Travels."
See in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.

2.  Hence, any brutish or vicious character.

3.  A raw countryman; a lout; a greenhorn. [U. S.]

YAHWEH; YAHWE; JAHVEH; JAHVE
Yah"weh, Yah"we, n. Also Jah"veh, Jah"ve, etc.

Defn: A modern transliteration of the Hebrew word translated Jehovah
in the Bible; -- used by some critics to discriminate the tribal god
of the ancient Hebrews from the Christian Jehovah. Yahweh or Yahwe is
the spelling now generally adopted by scholars.

YAHWISM; JAHVISM
Yah"wism, n. Also Jah"vism.

1. The religion or worship of Yahweh (Jehovah), or the system of
doctrines, etc., connected with it.

2.  Use of Yahweh as a name of God.

YAHWIST; JAHVIST; JAHWIST; JEHOVIST
Yah"wist, n. Also Jah"vist, Jah"wist, older Je*ho"vist.

Defn: The author of the passages of the Old Testament, esp. those of
the Hexateuch, in which God is styled Yahweh, or Jehovah; the author
of the Yahwistic, or Jehovistic, Prophetic Document (J); also, the
document itself.

YAJUR-VEDA
Yaj"ur-Ve"da, n. Etym: [Skr. yajur-v.]

Defn: See Veda.

YAK
Yak, n. Etym: [Thibetan gyag.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bovine mammal (Poëphagus grunnies) native of the high plains
of Central Asia. Its neck, the outer side of its legs, and its
flanks, are covered with long, flowing, fine hair. Its tail is long
and bushy, often white, and is valued as an ornament and for other
purposes in India and China. There are several domesticated
varieties, some of which lack the mane and the long hair on the
flanks. Called also chauri gua, grunting cow, grunting ox, sarlac,
sarlik, and sarluc. Yak lace, a coarse pillow lace made from the
silky hair of the yak.

YAKAMILK
Yak"a*milk, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Trumpeter, 3 (a).

YAKARE
Yak"a*re`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Yacare.

YAKIN
Ya"kin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large Asiatic antelope (Budorcas taxicolor) native of the
higher parts of the Himalayas and other lofty mountains. Its head and
neck resemble those of the ox, and its tail is like that of the goat.
Called also budorcas.

YAKOOTS
Ya*koots", n. pl.; sing. Yakoot (.

Defn: (Ethnol.) A nomadic Mongolian tribe native of Northern Siberia,
and supposed to be of Turkish stock. They are mainly pastoral in
their habits. [Written also Yakuts.]

YAKSHA
Yak"sha, n. Etym: [Skr.] (Hindoo Myth.)

Defn: A kind of demigod attendant on Kuvera, the god of wealth.

YAKUT
Ya*kut", n.

Defn: The Turkish language of the Yakuts, a Mongolian people of
northeastern Siberia, which is lingua franca over much of eastern
Siberia.

YALAH
Ya"lah, n.

Defn: The oil of the mahwa tree.

YAM
Yam, n. Etym: [Pg. inhame, probably from some native name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large, esculent, farinaceous tuber of various climbing plants
of the genus Dioscorea; also, the plants themselves. Mostly natives
of warm climates. The plants have netted-veined, petioled leaves, and
pods with three broad wings. The commonest species is D. sativa, but
several others are cultivated. Chinese yam, a plant (Dioscorea
Batatas) with a long and slender tuber, hardier than most of the
other species.
 -- Wild yam. (a) A common plant (Dioscorea villosa) of the Eastern
United States, having a hard and knotty rootstock. (b) An
orchidaceous plant (Gastrodia sesamoides) of Australia and Tasmania.

YAMA
Ya"ma, n. Etym: [Skr. yama a twin.] (Hindoo Myth.)

Defn: The king of the infernal regions, corresponding to the Greek
Pluto, and also the judge of departed souls. In later times he is
more exclusively considered the dire judge of all, and the tormentor
of the wicked. He is represented as of a green color, with red
garments, having a crown on his head, his eyes inflamed, and sitting
on a buffalo, with a club and noose in his hands.

YAMEN
Ya"men, n. [Chin. ya a civil or military court + men a gate.]

Defn: In China, the official headquarters or residence of a mandarin,
including court rooms, offices, gardens, prisons, etc.; the place
where the business of any public department is transcated.

YAMMA
Yam"ma, n. Etym: [See Llama.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The llama.

YAMP
Yamp, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant (Carum Gairdneri); also, its small
fleshy roots, which are eaten by the Indians from Idaho to
California.

YANG
Yang, n. Etym: [Of imitative origin.]

Defn: The cry of the wild goose; a honk.

YANG
Yang, v. i.

Defn: To make the cry of the wild goose.

YANK
Yank, n. Etym: [Cf. Scot. yank a sudden and severe blow.]

Defn: A jerk or twitch. [Colloq. U. S.]

YANK
Yank, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Yanked; p. pr. & vb. n. Yanking.]

Defn: To twitch; to jerk. [Colloq. U. S.]

YANK
Yank, n.

Defn: An abbreviation of Yankee. [Slang]

YANKEE
Yan"kee, n. Etym: [Commonly considered to be a corrupt pronunciation
of the word English, or of the French word Anglais, by the native
Indians of America. According to Thierry, a corruption of Jankin, a
diminutive of John, and a nickname given to the English colonists of
Connecticut by the Dutch settlers of New York. Dr. W. Gordon ("Hist.
of the Amer. War," ed, 1789, vol. i., pp. 324, 325) says it was a
favorite cant word in Cambridge, Mass., as early as 1713, and that it
meant excellent; as, a yankee good horse, yankee good cider, etc. Cf.
Scot yankie a sharp, clever, and rather bold woman, and Prov. E. bow-
yankees a kind of leggins worn by agricultural laborers.]

Defn: A nickname for a native of citizen of New England, especially
one descended from old New England stock; by extension, an inhabitant
of the Northern States as distinguished from a Southerner; also,
applied sometimes by foreigners to any inhabitant of the United
States.
From meanness first this Portsmouth Yankey rose, And still to
meanness all his conduct flows. Oppression, A poem by an American
(Boston, 1765).

YANKEE
Yan"kee, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a Yankee; characteristic of the Yankees.
The alertness of the Yankee aspect. Hawthorne.
Yankee clover. (Bot.) See Japan clover, under Japan.

YANKEE-DOODLE
Yan`kee-Doo"dle, n.

1. The name of a tune adopted popularly as one of the national airs
of the United States.

2. Humorously, a Yankee.
We might have withheld our political noodles From knocking their
heads against hot Yankee-Doodles. Moore.

YANKEEISM
Yan"kee*ism, n.

Defn: A Yankee idiom, word, custom, or the like. Lowell.

YAOURT
Yaourt, n. Etym: [Turk. yoghurt.]

Defn: A fermented drink, or milk beer, made by the Turks.

YAP
Yap, v. i. Etym: [Icel. gjalpa; akin to yelp. Cf. Yaup.]

Defn: To bark; to yelp. L'Estrange.

YAP
Yap, n.

Defn: A bark; a yelp.

YAPOCK
Ya"pock, n. Etym: [Probably from the river Oyapok, between French
Guiana and Brazil.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American aquatic opossum (Chironectes variegatus) found
in Guiana and Brazil. Its hind feet are webbed, and its fore feet do
not have an opposable thumb for climbing. Called also water opossum.
[Written also yapack.]

YAPON
Ya"pon, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Yaupon.

YARAGE
Yar"age (; 48), n. Etym: [See Yare, a.] (Naut.)

Defn: The power of moving, or being managed, at sea; -- said with
reference to a ship. Sir T. North.

YARD
Yard, n. Etym: [OE. yerd, AS. gierd, gyrd, a rod, ierde, OS. gerda,
D. garde, G. gerte, OHG. gartia, gerta, gart, Icel. gaddr a goad,
sting, Goth. gazds, and probably to L. hasta a spear. Cf. Gad, n.,
Gird, n., Gride, v. i., Hastate.]

1. A rod; a stick; a staff. [Obs.] P. Plowman.
If men smote it with a yerde. Chaucer.

2. A branch; a twig. [Obs.]
The bitter frosts with the sleet and rain Destroyed hath the green in
every yerd. Chaucer.

3. A long piece of timber, as a rafter, etc. [Obs.]

4. A measure of length, equaling three feet, or thirty-six inches,
being the standard of English and American measure.

5. The penis.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: A long piece of timber, nearly cylindrical, tapering toward the
ends, and designed to support and extend a square sail. A yard is
usually hung by the center to the mast. See Illust. of Ship. Golden
Yard, or Yard and Ell (Astron.), a popular name the three stars in
the belt of Orion.
 -- Under yard [i. e., under the rod], under contract. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

YARD
Yard, n. Etym: [OE. yard, yerd, AS. geard; akin to OFries. garda
garden, OS. gardo garden, gard yard, D. gaard garden, G. garten, OHG.
garto garden, gari inclosure, Icel. gar yard, house, Sw. gård, Dan.
g, Goth. gards a house, garda sheepfold, L. hortus garden, Gr. Court,
Garden, Garth, Horticulture, Orchard.]

1. An inclosure; usually, a small inclosed place in front of, or
around, a house or barn; as, a courtyard; a cowyard; a barnyard.
A yard . . . inclosed all about with sticks In which she had a cock,
hight chanticleer. Chaucer.

2. An inclosure within which any work or business is carried on; as,
a dockyard; a shipyard. Liberty of the yard, a liberty, granted to
persons imprisoned for debt, of walking in the yard, or within any
other limits prescribed by law, on their giving bond not to go beyond
those limits.
 -- Prison yard, an inclosure about a prison, or attached to it.
 -- Yard grass (Bot.), a low-growing grass (Eleusine Indica) having
digitate spikes. It is common in dooryards, and like places,
especially in the Southern United States. Called also crab grass.
 -- Yard of land. See Yardland.

YARD
Yard, v. t.

Defn: To confine (cattle) to the yard; to shut up, or keep, in a
yard; as, to yard cows.

YARDARM
Yard"arm`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: Either half of a square-rigged vessel's yard, from the center
or mast to the end.

Note: Ships are said to be yardarm and yardarm when so near as to
touch, or interlock yards.

YARDFUL
Yard"ful, n.; pl. Yardfuls (.

Defn: As much as a yard will contain; enough to fill a yard.

YARDLAND
Yard"land`, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A measure of land of uncertain quantity, varying from fifteen
to forty acres; a virgate. [Obs.]

YARDSTICK
Yard"stick`, n.

Defn: A stick three feet, or a yard, in length, used as a measure of
cloth, etc.

YARDWAND
Yard"wand`, n.

Defn: A yardstick. Tennyson.

YARE
Yare, a. Etym: [OE. yare, ýaru, AS. gearu; akin to OS. garu, OHG.
garo, G. gar, Icel. gerr perfect, görva quite, G. gerben to tan, to
curry, OHG. garawen, garwen, to make ready. Cf. Carouse, Garb
clothing, Gear, n.]

Defn: Ready; dexterous; eager; lively; quick to move. [Obs.] "Be yare
in thy preparation." Shak.
The lesser [ship] will come and go, leave or take, and is yare;
whereas the greater is slow. Sir W. Raleigh.

YARE
Yare, adv.

Defn: Soon. [Obs.] Cursor Mundi.

YARELY
Yare"ly, adv.

Defn: In a yare manner. [Obs.] Shak.

YARK
Yark, v. t. & i.

Defn: To yerk. [Prov. Eng.]

YARKE
Yar"ke, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Saki.

YARN
Yarn, n. Etym: [OE. yarn, ýarn, AS. gearn; akin to D. garen, G.,
OHG., Icel., Sw., & Dan. garn; of uncertain origin. Cf. Cord.]

1. Spun wool; woolen thread; also, thread of other material, as of
cotton, flax, hemp, or silk; material spun and prepared for use in
weaving, knitting, manufacturing sewing thread, or the like.

2. (Rope Making)

Defn: One of the threads of which the strands of a rope are composed.

3. A story told by a sailor for the amusement of his companions; a
story or tale; as, to spin a yarn. [Colloq.]

YARNEN
Yarn"en, a.

Defn: Made of yarn; consisting of yarn. [Obs.] "A pair of yarnen
stocks." Turbervile.

YARNUT
Yar"nut`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Yernut.

YARR
Yarr, v. i. Etym: [OE. ýarren.]

Defn: To growl or snarl as a dog. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

YARRISH
Yar"rish, a. Etym: [Prov. E. yar sour, yare brackish.]

Defn: Having a rough, dry taste. [Prov. Eng.]

YARROW
Yar"row, n. Etym: [OE. yarowe, yarwe, ýarowe, AS. gearwe; akin to D.
gerw, OHG. garwa, garawa, G. garbe, schafgarbe, and perhaps to E.
yare.] (Bot.)

Defn: An American and European composite plant (Achillea Millefolium)
with very finely dissected leaves and small white corymbed flowers.
It has a strong, and somewhat aromatic, odor and taste, and is
sometimes used in making beer, or is dried for smoking. Called also
milfoil, and nosebleed.

YARWHIP
Yar"whip`, n. Etym: [So called from its sharp cry uttered when taking
wing.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European bar-tailed godwit; -- called also yardkeep, and
yarwhelp. See Godwit. [Prov. Eng.]

YATAGHAN
Yat"a*ghan, n. Etym: [Turk. yataghan.]

Defn: A long knife, or short saber, common among Mohammedan nations,
usually having a double curve, sometimes nearly straight. [Written
also ataghan, attaghan.] Chaucer.

YATE
Yate, n.

Defn: A gate. See 1st Gate. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Spenser.

YAUD
Yaud, n.

Defn: See Yawd. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

YAUL
Yaul, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Yawl.

YAULP
Yaulp, v. i.

Defn: To yaup.

YAUP
Yaup, v. i. Etym: [See Yap, and Yelp.]

Defn: To cry out like a child; to yelp. [Scot. & Colloq. U. S.]
[Written also yawp.]

YAUP
Yaup, n. Etym: [Written also yawp.]

1. A cry of distress, rage, or the like, as the cry of a sickly bird,
or of a child in pain. [Scot. & Colloq. U. S.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.]

YAUPER
Yaup"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, yaups.

YAUPON
Yau"pon, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A shrub (Ilex Cassine) of the Holly family, native from
Virginia to Florida. The smooth elliptical leaves are used as a
substitute for tea, and were formerly used in preparing the black
drink of the Indians of North Carolina. Called also South-Sea tea.
[Written also yapon, youpon, and yupon.]

YAUTIA
Yau*ti"a, n. [Native name in the Antilles.]

Defn: In Porto Rico, any of several araceous plants or their starchy
edible roots, which are cooked and eaten like yams or potatoes, as
the taro.

YAW
Yaw, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Yawed; p. pr. & vb. n. Yawing.] Etym: [Cf.
Yew, v. i.]

Defn: To rise in blisters, breaking in white froth, as cane juice in
the clarifiers in sugar works.

YAW
Yaw, v. i. & t. Etym: [Cf. Prov. G. gagen to rock, gageln to totter,
shake, Norw. gaga to bend backward, Icel. gagr bent back, gaga to
throw the neck back.] (Naut.)

Defn: To steer wild, or out of the line of her course; to deviate
from her course, as when struck by a heavy sea; -- said of a ship.
Just as he would lay the ship's course, all yawing being out of the
question. Lowell.

YAW
Yaw, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A movement of a vessel by which she temporarily alters her
course; a deviation from a straight course in steering.

YAWD
Yawd, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. jalda a mare, E. jade a nag.]

Defn: A jade; an old horse or mare. [Written also yaud.] [Prov. Eng.
& Scot.] Grose.

YAWI
Yawi, n.

Defn: A fore-and-aft-rigged vessel with a mainmast stepped a little
farther forward than in a sloop and carrying a mainsail and jibs,
with a jigger mast far aft, usually placed abaft the rudder post.

YAWL
Yawl, n. Etym: [D. jol; akin to LG. & Dan. jolle, Sw. julle. Cf.
Jolly-boat.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small ship's boat, usually rowed by four or six oars.
[Written also yaul.]

YAWL
Yawl, v. i. Etym: [OE. ýaulen, ýoulen, gaulen, goulen, Icel. gaula to
low, bellow. Cf. Gowl.]

Defn: To cry out like a dog or cat; to howl; to yell. Tennyson.
There howling Scyllas yawling round about. Fairfax.

YAWL-RIGGED
Yawl"-rigged", a. (Naut.)

Defn: Having two masts with fore-and-aft sails, but differing from a
schooner in that the after mast is very small, and stepped as far aft
as possible. See Illustration in Appendix.

YAWN
Yawn, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Yawned; p. pr. & vb. n. Yawning.] Etym:
[OE. yanien, ýanien, ganien, gonien, AS. ganian; akin to ginian to
yawn, ginan to yawn, open wide, G. gähnen to yawn, OHG. ginen,
geinon, Icel. gina to yawn, gin the mouth, OSlav. zijati to yawn, L.
hiare to gape, yawn; and perhaps to E. begin, cf. Gr. b. Cf. Begin,
Gin to begin, Hiatus.]

1. To open the mouth involuntarily through drowsiness, dullness, or
fatigue; to gape; to oscitate. "The lazy, yawning drone." Shak.
And while above he spends his breath, The yawning audience nod
beneath. Trumbull.

2. To open wide; to gape, as if to allow the entrance or exit of
anything.
't is now the very witching time of night, When churchyards yawn.
Shak.

3. To open the mouth, or to gape, through surprise or bewilderment.
Shak.

4. To be eager; to desire to swallow anything; to express desire by
yawning; as, to yawn for fat livings. "One long, yawning gaze."
Landor.

YAWN
Yawn, n.

1. An involuntary act, excited by drowsiness, etc., consisting of a
deep and long inspiration following several successive attempts at
inspiration, the mouth, fauces, etc., being wide open.
One person yawning in company will produce a spontaneous yawn in all
present. N. Chipman.

2. The act of opening wide, or of gaping. Addison.

3. A chasm, mouth, or passageway. [R.]
Now gape the graves, and trough their yawns let loose Imprisoned
spirits. Marston.

YAWNINGLY
Yawn"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a yawning manner.

YAWP
Yawp, v. & n.

Defn: See Yaup.

YAWS
Yaws, n. Etym: [African yaw a raspberry.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease, occurring in the Antilles and in Africa,
characterized by yellowish or reddish tumors, of a contagious
character, which, in shape and appearance, often resemble currants,
strawberries, or raspberries. There are several varieties of this
disease, variously known as framboesia, pian, verrugas, and crab-
yaws.

YAW-WEED
Yaw"-weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A low, shrubby, rubiaceous plant (Morinda Royoc) growing along
the seacoast of the West Indies. It has small, white, odorous
flowers.

YAZOO FRAUD
Yaz"oo Fraud. (U. S. Hist.)

Defn: The grant by the State of Georgia, by Act of Jan. 7, 1795, of
35,000,000 acres of her western territory, for $500,000, to four
companies known as the Yazoo Companies from the region granted ; --
commonly so called, the act being known as the Yazoo Frauds Act,
because of alleged corruption of the legislature, every member but
one being a shareholder in one or more of the companies. The act
granting the land was repealed in 1796 by a new legislature, and the
repealing provision was incorporated in the State constitution in
1798. In 1802 the territory was ceded to the United States. The
claims of the purchasers, whom Georgia had refused to compensate,
were sustained by the United States Supreme Court, which (1810)
declared the repealing act of 1796 unconstitutional. Congress in 1814
ordered the lands sold and appropriated $5,000,000 to pay the claims.

YBE
Y*be", obs. p. p. of Be.

Defn: Been. Chaucer.

YCLEPED
Y*cleped", p. p. Etym: [AS. geclipod, p. p. of clipian, cleopian,
cliopian, to call. See Clepe, and also the Note under Y-.]

Defn: Called; named; -- obsolete, except in archaic or humorous
writings. [Spelt also yclept.]
It is full fair to ben yclept madame. Chaucer.
But come, thou goddess fair and free. In heaven ycleped Euphrosyne.
Milton.
Those charming little missives ycleped valentines. Lamb.

Y CURRENT
Y current. (Elec.)

Defn: The current through one branch of the star arrangement of a
three-phase circuit.

YDO
Y*do", obs. p. p. of Do.

Defn: Done. Chaucer.

YDRAD
Y*drad", obs. p. p. of Dread.

Defn: Dreaded.
Yet nothing did he dread, but ever was ydrad. Spenser.

YE
Ye,

Defn: an old method of printing the article the (AS. þe), the "y"
being used in place of the Anglo-Saxon thorn. It is sometimes
incorrectly pronounced ye. See The, and Thorn, n., 4.

YE
Y"ë (e"e), n.; pl. Yën (.

Defn: An eye. [Obs.]
From his yën ran the water down. Chaucer.

YE
Ye (ye), pron. Etym: [OE. ye, ýe, nom. pl., AS. ge, gi; cf. OS. ge,
gi, OFries. gi, i, D. gij, Dan. & Sw. i, Icel. er, OHG. ir, G. ihr,
Goth. jus, Lith. jus, Gr. yuyam.

Defn: The plural of the pronoun of the second person in the
nominative case.
Ye ben to me right welcome heartily. Chaucer.
But ye are washed, but ye are sanctified. 1 Cor. vi. 11.
This would cost you your life in case ye were a man. Udall.

Note: In Old English ye was used only as a nominative, and you only
as a dative or objective. In the 16th century, however, ye and you
became confused and were often used interchangeably, both as
nominatives and objectives, and you has now superseded ye except in
solemn or poetic use. See You, and also the first Note under Thou.
Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye. Shak.
I come, kind gentlemen, strange news to tell ye. Dryden.

YE
Ye, adv. Etym: [See Yea.]

Defn: Yea; yes. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YEA
Yea (ya or ye; 277), adv. Etym: [OE. ye, ya, ýe, ýa, AS. geá; akin to
OFries. g, i, OS., D., OHG., G., Dan. & Sw. ja, Icel, ja, Goth. ja,
jai, and probably to Gr. Yes.]

1. Yes; ay; a word expressing assent, or an affirmative, or an
affirmative answer to a question, now superseded by yes. See Yes.
Let your communication be yea, yea; nay, nay. Matt. v. 37.

2. More than this; not only so, but; -- used to mark the addition of
a more specific or more emphatic clause. Cf. Nay, adv., 2.
I therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice. Phil. i. 18.

Note: Yea sometimes introduces a clause, with the sense of indeed,
verily, truly. "Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of
the garden" Gen. iii. 1.

YEA
Yea, n.

Defn: An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, a
vote by yeas and nays.

Note: In the Scriptures, yea is used as a sign of certainty or
stability. "All the promises of God in him are yea, and in him Amen."
2 Cor. i. 20.

YEAD
Yead, v. i.

Defn: Properly, a variant of the defective imperfect yode, but
sometimes mistaken for a present. See the Note under Yede. [Obs.]
Years yead away and faces fair deflower. Drant.

YEAN
Yean, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Yeaned; p. pr. & vb. n. Yeaning.]
Etym: [AS. eánian, or geeánian; perhaps akin to E. ewe, or perhaps to
L. agnus, Gr. Ean.]

Defn: To bring forth young, as a goat or a sheep; to ean. Shak.

YEANLING
Yean"ling, n. Etym: [Yean + -ling. Cf. Eanling.]

Defn: A lamb or a kid; an eanling. Shak.

YEAR
Year, n. Etym: [OE. yer, yeer, ýer, AS. geár; akin to OFries. i, g,
D. jaar, OHG. jar, G. jahr, Icel. ar, Dan. aar, Sw. år, Goth. j, Gr.
yare year. sq. root4, 279. Cf. Hour, Yore.]

1. The time of the apparent revolution of the sun trough the
ecliptic; the period occupied by the earth in making its revolution
around the sun, called the astronomical year; also, a period more or
less nearly agreeing with this, adopted by various nations as a
measure of time, and called the civil year; as, the common lunar year
of 354 days, still in use among the Mohammedans; the year of 360
days, etc. In common usage, the year consists of 365 days, and every
fourth year (called bissextile, or leap year) of 366 days, a day
being added to February on that year, on account of the excess above
365 days (see Bissextile).
Of twenty year of age he was, I guess. Chaucer.

Note: The civil, or legal, year, in England, formerly commenced on
the 25th of March. This practice continued throughout the British
dominions till the year 1752.

2. The time in which any planet completes a revolution about the sun;
as, the year of Jupiter or of Saturn.

3. pl.

Defn: Age, or old age; as, a man in years. Shak. Anomalistic year,
the time of the earth's revolution from perihelion to perihelion
again, which is 365 days, 6 hours, 13 minutes, and 48 seconds.
 -- A year's mind (Eccl.), a commemoration of a deceased person, as
by a Mass, a year after his death. Cf. A month's mind, under Month.
 -- Bissextile year. See Bissextile.
 -- Canicular year. See under Canicular.
 -- Civil year, the year adopted by any nation for the computation of
time.
 -- Common lunar year, the period of 12 lunar months, or 354 days.
 -- Common year, each year of 365 days, as distinguished from leap
year.
 -- Embolismic year, or Intercalary lunar year, the period of 13
lunar months, or 384 days.
 -- Fiscal year (Com.), the year by which accounts are reckoned, or
the year between one annual time of settlement, or balancing of
accounts, and another.
 -- Great year. See Platonic year, under Platonic.
 -- Gregorian year, Julian year. See under Gregorian, and Julian.
 -- Leap year. See Leap year, in the Vocabulary.
 -- Lunar astronomical year, the period of 12 lunar synodical months,
or 354 days, 8 hours, 48 minutes, 36 seconds.
 -- Lunisolar year. See under Lunisolar.
 -- Periodical year. See Anomalistic year, above.
 -- Platonic year, Sabbatical year. See under Platonic, and
Sabbatical.
 -- Sidereal year, the time in which the sun, departing from any
fixed star, returns to the same. This is 365 days, 6 hours, 9
minutes, and 9.3 seconds.
 -- Tropical year. See under Tropical.
 -- Year and a day (O. Eng. Law), a time to be allowed for an act or
an event, in order that an entire year might be secured beyond all
question. Abbott.
 -- Year of grace, any year of the Christian era; Anno Domini; A. D.
or a. d.

YEARA
Ye*a"ra, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The California poison oak (Rhus diversiloba). See under Poison,
a.

YEARBOOK
Year"book`, n.

1. A book published yearly; any annual report or summary of the
statistics or facts of a year, designed to be used as a reference
book; as, the Congregational Yearbook.

2. (Eng. Law)

Defn: A book containing annual reports of cases adjudged in the
courts of England.

Note: The Yearbooks are the oldest English reports extant, beginning
with the reign of Edward II., and ending with the reign of Henry
VIII. They were published annually, and derive their name from that
fact. They consist of eleven parts, or volumes, are written in Law
French, and extend over nearly two hundred years. There are, however,
several hiatuses, or chasms, in the series. Kent. Bouvier.

YEARED
Yeared, a.

Defn: Containing years; having existed or continued many years; aged.
[Obs.] B. Jonson.

YEARLING
Year"ling, n. Etym: [Year + -ling.]

Defn: An animal one year old, or in the second year of its age; --
applied chiefly to cattle, sheep, and horses.

YEARLING
Year"ling, a.

Defn: Being a year old. "A yearling bullock to thy name small smoke."
Pope.

YEARLY
Year"ly, a. Etym: [AS. geárlic.]

1. Happening, accruing, or coming every year; annual; as, a yearly
income; a yearly feast.

2. Lasting a year; as, a yearly plant.

3. Accomplished in a year; as, the yearly circuit, or revolution, of
the earth. Shak.

YEARLY
Year"ly, adv. Etym: [AS. geárlice.]

Defn: Annually; once a year to year; as, blessings yearly bestowed.
Yearly will I do this rite. Shak.

YEARN
Yearn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Yearned; p. pr. & vb. n. Yearning.] Etym:
[Also earn, ern; probably a corruption of OE. ermen to grieve, AS.
ierman, yrman, or geierman, geyrman, fr. earm wretched, poor; akin to
D. & G. arm, Icel. armr, Goth. arms. The y- in English is perhaps due
to the AS. ge (see Y-).]

Defn: To pain; to grieve; to vex. [Obs.] "She laments, sir, for it,
that it would yearn your heart to see it." Shak.
It yearns me not if men my garments wear. Shak.

YEARN
Yearn, v. i.

Defn: To be pained or distressed; to grieve; to mourn. [Obs.]
"Falstaff he is dead, and we must yearn therefore." Shak.

YEARN
Yearn, v. i. & t. Etym: [See Yearnings.]

Defn: To curdle, as milk. [Scot.]

YEARN
Yearn, v. i. Etym: [OE. yernen, , , AS. geornian, gyrnan, fr. georn
desirous, eager; akin to OS. gern desirous, girnean, gernean, to
desire, D. gaarne gladly, willingly, G. gern, OHG. gerno, adv., gern,
a., G. gier greed, OHG. giri greed, ger desirous, ger to desire, G.
begehren, Icel. girna to desire, gjarn eager, Goth. faíhugaírns
covetous, gaírnjan to desire, and perhaps to Gr. hary to desire, to
like.

Defn: To be filled with longing desire; to be harassed or rendered
uneasy with longing, or feeling the want of a thing; to strain with
emotions of affection or tenderness; to long; to be eager.
Joseph made haste; for his bowels did yearn upon his brother; and he
sought where to weep. Gen. xliii. 30.
Your mother's heart yearns towards you. Addison.

YEARNFUL
Yearn"ful, a. Etym: [OE. , AS. geornfull.]

Defn: Desirous. [Obs.] Ormulum. P. Fletcher.

YEARNINGLY
Yearn"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With yearning.

YEARNINGS
Yearn"ings, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. AS. geirnan, geyrnan, to rum. See 4th
Earn.]

Defn: The maws, or stomachs, of young calves, used a rennet for
curdling milk. [Scot.]

YEAR'S PURCHASE
Year's purchase.

Defn: The amount that is yielded by the annual income of property; --
used in expressing the value of a thing in the number of years
required for its income to yield its purchase price, in reckoning the
amount to be paid for annuities, etc.

YEARTH
Yearth, n.

Defn: The earth. [Obs.] "Is my son dead or hurt or on the yerthe
felled" Ld. Berners.

YEAST
Yeast, n. Etym: [OE. ýeest, ýest, AS. gist; akin to D. gest, gist, G.
gischt, gäscht, OHG. jesan, jerian, to ferment, G. gischen, gäschen,
gähren, Gr. zei^n to boil, Skr. yas. sq. root111.]

1. The foam, or troth (top yeast), or the sediment (bottom yeast), of
beer or other in fermentation, which contains the yeast plant or its
spores, and under certain conditions produces fermentation in
saccharine or farinaceous substances; a preparation used for raising
dough for bread or cakes, and making it light and puffy; barm;
ferment.

2. Spume, or foam, of water.
They melt thy yeast of waves, which mar Alike the Armada's pride, or
spoils of Trafalgar. Byron.

Defn: A form of fungus which grows as indvidual rounded cells, rather
than in a mycelium, and reproduces by budding; esp. members of the
orders Endomycetales and Moniliales. Some fungi may grow both as a
yeast or as a mycelium, depending on the conditions of growth. Yeast
cake, a mealy cake impregnated with the live germs of the yeast
plant, and used as a conveniently transportable substitute for yeast.
 -- Yeast plant (Bot.), the vegetable organism, or fungus, of which
beer yeast consists. The yeast plant is composed of simple cells, or
granules, about one three-thousandth of an inch in diameter, often
united into filaments which reproduce by budding, and under certain
circumstances by the formation of spores. The name is extended to
other ferments of the same genus. See Saccharomyces.
 -- Yeast powder, a baling powder, -- used instead of yeast in
leavening bread.

YEAST-BITTEN
Yeast"-bit`ten, a. (Brewing)

Defn: A term used of beer when the froth of the yeast has reëntered
the body of the beer.

YEASTINESS
Yeast"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being yeasty, or frothy.

YEASTY
Yeast"y, a.

Defn: Frothy; foamy; spumy, like yeast.

YEDDING
Yed"ding, n. Etym: [AS. geddung, gidding, giedding, from gieddian,
giddian, to sing, speak.]

Defn: The song of a minstrel; hence, any song. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YEDE
Yede, obs. imp.

Defn: Went. See Yode.
All as he bade fulfilled was indeed This ilke servant anon right out
yede. Chaucer.

Note: Spenser and some later writers mistook this for a present of
the defective imperfect yode. It is, however, only a variant of yode.
See Yode, and cf. Yead.
[He] on foot was forced for to yeed. Spenser

YEEL
Yeel, n.

Defn: An eel. [Obs.] Holland.

YELDHALL
Yeld"hall`, n.

Defn: Guildhall. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YELDRIN; YELDRINE
Yel"drin or; Yel"drine, n. Etym: [Cf. Yellow.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The yellow-hammer; -- called also yeldrock, and yoldrin. [Prov.
Eng.]

YELK
Yelk, n.

Defn: Same as Yolk.

YELL
Yell, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Yelled; p. pr. & vb. n. Yelling.] Etym:
[OE. yellen, , AS. giellan, gillan, gyllan; akin to D. gillen, OHG.
gellan, G. gellen, Icel. gjalla, Sw. gälla to ring, resound, and to
AS., OS., & OHG. galan to sing, Icel. gala. Cf. 1st Gale, and
Nightingale.]

Defn: To cry out, or shriek, with a hideous noise; to cry or scream
as with agony or horror.
They yelleden as feendes doon in helle. Chaucer.
Nor the night raven, that still deadly yells. Spenser.
Infernal ghosts and hellish furies round Environed thee; some howled,
some yelled. Milton.

YELL
Yell, v. t.

Defn: To utter or declare with a yell; to proclaim in a loud tone.
Shak.

YELL
Yell, n.

Defn: A sharp, loud, hideous outcry.
Their hideous yells Rend the dark welkin. J. Philips.

YELLOW
Yel"low, a. [Compar. Yellower; superl. Yellowest.] Etym: [OE. yelow,
yelwe, ýelow, ýeoluw, from AS. geolu; akin to D. geel, OS. & OHG.
gelo, G. gelb, Icel. gulr, Sw. gul, Dan. guul, L. helvus light bay,
Gr. hari tawny, yellowish. Chlorine, Gall a bitter liquid, Gold,
Yolk.]

Defn: Being of a bright saffronlike color; of the color of gold or
brass; having the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar
spectrum, which is between the orange and the green.
Her yellow hair was browded [braided] in a tress. Chaucer.
A sweaty reaper from his tillage brought First fruits, the green ear
and the yellow sheaf. Milton.
The line of yellow light dies fast away. Keble.
Yellow atrophy (Med.), a fatal affection of the liver, in which it
undergoes fatty degeneration, and becomes rapidly smaller and of a
deep yellow tinge. The marked symptoms are black vomit, delirium,
convulsions, coma, and jaundice.
 -- Yellow bark, calisaya bark.
 -- Yellow bass (Zoöl.), a North American fresh-water bass (Morone
interrupta) native of the lower parts of the Mississippi and its
tributaries. It is yellow, with several more or less broken black
stripes or bars. Called also barfish.
 -- Yellow berry. (Bot.) Same as Persian berry, under Persian.
 -- Yellow boy, a gold coin, as a guinea. [Slang] Arbuthnot.
 -- Yellow brier. (Bot.) See under Brier.
 -- Yellow bugle (Bot.), a European labiate plant (Ajuga Chamæpitys).
 -- Yellow bunting (Zoöl.), the European yellow-hammer.
 -- Yellow cat (Zoöl.), a yellow catfish; especially, the bashaw.
 -- Yellow copperas (Min.), a hydrous sulphate of iron; -- called
also copiapite.
 -- Yellow copper ore, a sulphide of copper and iron; copper pyrites.
See Chalcopyrite.
 -- Yellow cress (Bot.), a yellow-flowered, cruciferous plant
(Barbarea præcox), sometimes grown as a salad plant.
 -- Yellow dock. (Bot.) See the Note under Dock.
 -- Yellow earth, a yellowish clay, colored by iron, sometimes used
as a yellow pigment.
 -- Yellow fever (Med.), a malignant, contagious, febrile disease of
warm climates, attended with jaundice, producing a yellow color of
the skin, and with the black vomit. See Black vomit, in the
Vocabulary.
 -- Yellow flag, the quarantine flag. See under Quarantine, and 3d
Flag.
 -- Yellow jack. (a) The yellow fever. See under 2d Jack. (b) The
quarantine flag. See under Quarantine.
 -- Yellow jacket (Zoöl.), any one of several species of American
social wasps of the genus Vespa, in which the color of the body is
partly bright yellow. These wasps are noted for their irritability,
and for their painful stings.
 -- Yellow lead ore (Min.), wulfenite.
 -- Yellow lemur (Zoöl.), the kinkajou.
 -- Yellow macauco (Zoöl.), the kinkajou.
 -- Yellow mackerel (Zoöl.), the jurel.
 -- Yellow metal. Same as Muntz metal, under Metal.
 -- Yellow ocher (Min.), an impure, earthy variety of brown iron ore,
which is used as a pigment.
 -- Yellow oxeye (Bot.), a yellow-flowered plant (Chrysanthemum
segetum) closely related to the oxeye daisy.
 -- Yellow perch (Zoöl.), the common American perch. See Perch.
 -- Yellow pike (Zoöl.), the wall-eye.
 -- Yellow pine (Bot.), any of several kinds of pine; also, their
yellowish and generally durable timber. Among the most common are
valuable species are Pinus mitis and P. palustris of the Eastern and
Southern States, and P. ponderosa and P. Arizonica of the Rocky
Mountains and Pacific States.
 -- Yellow plover (Zoöl.), the golden plover.
 -- Yellow precipitate (Med. Chem.), an oxide of mercury which is
thrown down as an amorphous yellow powder on adding corrosive
sublimate to limewater.
 -- Yellow puccoon. (Bot.) Same as Orangeroot.
 -- Yellow rail (Zoöl.), a small American rail (Porzana
Noveboracensis) in which the lower parts are dull yellow, darkest on
the breast. The back is streaked with brownish yellow and with black,
and spotted with white. Called also yellow crake.
 -- Yellow rattle, Yellow rocket. (Bot.) See under Rattle, and
Rocket.
 -- Yellow Sally (Zoöl.), a greenish or yellowish European stone fly
of the genus Chloroperla; -- so called by anglers.
 -- Yellow sculpin (Zoöl.), the dragonet.
 -- Yellow snake (Zoöl.), a West Indian boa (Chilobothrus inornatus)
common in Jamaica. It becomes from eight to ten long. The body is
yellowish or yellowish green, mixed with black, and anteriorly with
black lines.
 -- Yellow spot. (a) (Anat.) A small yellowish spot with a central
pit, the fovea centralis, in the center of the retina where vision is
most accurate. See Eye. (b) (Zoöl.) A small American butterfly
(Polites Peckius) of the Skipper family. Its wings are brownish, with
a large, irregular, bright yellow spot on each of the hind wings,
most conspicuous beneath. Called also Peck's skipper. See Illust.
under Skipper, n., 5.
 -- Yellow tit (Zoöl.), any one of several species of crested titmice
of the genus Machlolophus, native of India. The predominating colors
of the plumage are yellow and green.
 -- Yellow viper (Zoöl.), the fer-de-lance.
 -- Yellow warbler (Zoöl.), any one of several species of American
warblers of the genus Dendroica in which the predominant color is
yellow, especially D. æstiva, which is a very abundant and familiar
species; -- called also garden warbler, golden warbler, summer
yellowbird, summer warbler, and yellow-poll warbler.
 -- Yellow wash (Pharm.), yellow oxide of mercury suspended in water,
-- a mixture prepared by adding corrosive sublimate to limewater.
 -- Yellow wren (Zoöl.) (a) The European willow warbler. (b) The
European wood warbler.

YELLOW
Yel"low, n.

1. A bright golden color, reflecting more light than any other except
white; the color of that part of the spectrum which is between the
orange and green. "A long motley coat guarded with yellow." Shak.

2. A yellow pigment. Cadmium yellow, Chrome yellow, Indigo yellow,
King's yellow, etc. See under Cadmium, Chrome, etc.
 -- Naples yellow, a yellow amorphous pigment, used in oil,
porcelain, and enamel painting, consisting of a basic lead
metantimonate, obtained by fusing together tartar emetic lead
nitrate, and common salt.
 -- Patent yellow (Old Chem.), a yellow pigment consisting
essentially of a lead oxychloride; -- called also Turner's yellow.

YELLOW
Yel"low, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Yellowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Yellowing.]

Defn: To make yellow; to cause to have a yellow tinge or color; to
dye yellow.

YELLOW
Yel"low, v. i.

Defn: To become yellow or yellower.

YELLOWAMMER
Yel"low*am`mer, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Yellow-hammer.

YELLOWBILL
Yel"low*bill`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American scoter.

YELLOWBIRD
Yel"low*bird`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The American goldfinch, or thistle bird. See Goldfinch.
(b) The common yellow warbler; -- called also summer yellowbird. See
Illust. of Yellow warbler, under Yellow, a.

YELLOW BOOK
Yellow Book. [F. livre jaune.]

Defn: In France, an official government publication bound in yellow
covers.

YELLOW-COVERED
Yel"low-cov`ered, a.

Defn: Covered or bound in yellow paper. Yellow-covered literature,
cheap sensational novels and trashy magazines; -- formerly so called
from the usual color of their covers. [Colloq. U. S.] Bartlett.

YELLOW-EYED
Yel"low-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having yellow eyes. Yellow-eyed grass (Bot.), any plant of the
genus Xyris.

YELLOWFIN
Yel"low*fin`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large squeteague.

YELLOWFISH
Yel"low*fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A rock trout (Pleurogrammus monopterygius) found on the coast
of Alaska; -- called also striped fish, and Atka mackerel.

YELLOW-GOLDS
Yel"low-golds`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A certain plant, probably the yellow oxeye. B. Jonson.

YELLOWHAMMER
Yel"low*ham`mer, n. Etym: [For yellow-ammer, where ammer is fr. AS.
amore a kind of bird; akin to G. ammer a yellow-hammer, OHG. amero.]
(Zoöl.)
(a) A common European finch (Emberiza citrinella). The color of the
male is bright yellow on the breast, neck, and sides of the head,
with the back yellow and brown, and the top of the head and the tail
quills blackish. Called also yellow bunting, scribbling lark, and
writing lark. [Written also yellow-ammer.]
(b) The flicker. [Local, U. S.]

YELLOWING
Yel"low*ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of making yellow.
Softened . . . by the yellowing which time has given. G. Eliot.

YELLOWISH
Yel"low*ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat yellow; as, amber is of a yellowish color.
 -- Yel"low*ish*ness, n.

YELLOWLEGS
Yel"low*legs`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of long-legged sandpipers of the
genus Totanus, in which the legs are bright yellow; -- called also
stone snipe, tattler, telltale, yellowshanks; and yellowshins. See
Tattler, 2.

YELLOWNESS
Yel"low*ness, n.

1. The quality or state of being yellow; as, the yellowness of an
orange.

2. Jealousy. [Obs.]
I will possess him with yellowness. Shak.

YELLOWROOT
Yel"low*root`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of several plants with yellow roots. Specifically:
(a) See Xanthorhiza.
(b) Same as Orangeroot.

YELLOWS
Yel"lows, n.

1. (Far.)

Defn: A disease of the bile in horses, cattle, and sheep, causing
yellowness of the eyes; jaundice.
His horse . . . sped with spavins, rayed with the yellows. Shak.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A disease of plants, esp. of peach trees, in which the leaves
turn to a yellowish color; jeterus.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of butterflies in which the predominating color is
yellow. It includes the common small yellow butterflies. Called also
redhorns, and sulphurs. See Sulphur.

YELLOWSEED
Yel"low*seed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of pepper grass (Lepidium campestre).

YELLOWSHANKS; YELLOWSHINS
Yel"low*shanks`, Yel"low*shins`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Yellolegs.

YELLOWTAIL
Yel"low*tail`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) Any one of several species of marine carangoid fishes of the
genus Seriola; especially, the large California species (S. dorsalis)
which sometimes weighs thirty or forty pounds, and is highly esteemed
as a food fish; -- called also cavasina, and white salmon.
(b) The mademoiselle, or silver perch.
(c) The menhaden.
(d) The runner, 12.
(e) A California rockfish (Sebastodes flavidus).
(f) The sailor's choice (Diplodus rhomboides).

Note: Several other fishes are also locally called yellowtail.

YELLOWTHROAT
Yel"low*throat`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of American ground warblers of the
genus Geothlypis, esp. the Maryland yellowthroat (G. trichas), which
is a very common species.

YELLOWTOP
Yel"low*top`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of grass, perhaps a species of Agrostis.

YELLOWWOOD
Yel"low*wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The wood of any one of several different kinds of trees; also,
any one of the trees themselves. Among the trees so called are the
Cladrastis tinctoria, an American leguminous tree; the several
species of prickly ash (Xanthoxylum); the Australian Flindersia
Oxleyana, a tree related to the mahogany; certain South African
species of Podocarpus, trees related to the yew; the East Indian
Podocarpus latifolia; and the true satinwood (Chloroxylon Swietenia).
All these Old World trees furnish valuable timber.

YELLOWWORT
Yel"low*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A European yellow-flowered, gentianaceous (Chlora perfoliata).
The whole plant is intensely bitter, and is sometimes used as a
tonic, and also in dyeing yellow.

YELP
Yelp, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Yelped; p. pr. & vb. n. Yelping.] Etym:
[OE. yelpen, , to boast, boast noisily, AS. gielpan, gilpan, gylpan;
akin to OHG. gelph arrogant: cf. Icel. gjalpa to yelp. Cf. Yap.]

1. To boast. [Obs.]
I keep [care] not of armes for to yelpe. Chaucer.

2. To utter a sharp, quick cry, as a hound; to bark shrilly with
eagerness, pain, or fear; to yaup.
A little herd of England's timorous deer, Mazed with a yelping kennel
of French curs Shak.
At the least flourish of a broomstick or ladle, he would fly to the
door with a yelping precipitation. W. Irving.

YELP
Yelp, n.

Defn: A sharp, quick cry; a bark. Chaucer.

YELPER
Yelp"er, n.

Defn: An animal that yelps, or makes a yelping noise. Specifically:
(Zoöl.)
(a) The avocet; -- so called from its sharp, shrill cry. [Prov. Eng.]
(b) The tattler. [Local, U. S.]

YELTING
Yel"ting, n. [Orig. uncert.]

Defn: The Florida and West Indian red snapper (Lutianus aya); also,
sometimes, one of certain other allied species, as L. caxis.

YEMAN
Ye"man, n.

Defn: A yeoman. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YEN
Yen, n.

Defn: The unit of value and account in Japan. Since Japan's adoption
of the gold standard, in 1897, the value of the yen has been about 50
cents. The yen is equal to 100 sen.

YEND
Yend, v. t.

Defn: To throw; to cast. [Prov. Eng.]

YENITE
Ye"nite, n. Etym: [After Jena, in Germany.] (Min.)

Defn: A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic
crystals; -- also called ilvaite. [Spelt also jenite.]

YEOMAN
Yeo"man, n.; pl. Yeomen. Etym: [OE. yoman, ýeman, ýoman; of uncertain
origin; perhaps the first, syllable is akin to OFries. ga district,
region, G. gau, OHG. gewi, gouwi, Goth. gawi. sq. root100.]

1. A common man, or one of the commonly of the first or most
respectable class; a freeholder; a man free born.

Note: A yeoman in England is considered as next in order to the
gentry. The word is little used in the United States, unless as a
title in law proceedings and instruments, designating occupation, and
this only in particular States.

2. A servant; a retainer. [Obs.]
A yeman hadde he and servants no mo. Chaucer.

3. A yeoman of the guard; also, a member of the yeomanry cavalry.
[Eng.]

4. (Naut.)

Defn: An interior officer under the boatswain, gunner, or carpenters,
charged with the stowage, account, and distribution of the stores.
Yeoman of the guard, one of the bodyguard of the English sovereign,
consisting of the hundred yeomen, armed with partisans, and habited
in the costume of the sixteenth century. They are members of the
royal household.

YEOMANLIKE
Yeo"man*like`, a.

Defn: Resembling, or suitable to, a yeoman; yeomanly.

YEOMANLY
Yeo"man*ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a yeoman; becoming or suitable to, a yeoman;
yeomanlike. B. Jonson.
Well could he dress his tackle yeomanly. Chaucer.

YEOMANRY
Yeo"man*ry, n.

1. The position or rank of a yeoman. [Obs.] "His estate of yeomanry."
Chaucer.

2. The collective body of yeomen, or freeholders.
The enfranchised yeomanry began to feel an instinct for dominion.
Bancroft.

3. The yeomanry cavalry. [Eng.] Yeomanry cavalry, certain bodies of
volunteer cavalry liable to service in Great Britain only. [Eng.]

YEORLING
Yeor"ling, n. Etym: [Cf. Yellow.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European yellow-hammer.

YER
Yer, prep.

Defn: Ere; before. [Obs.] Sylvester.

YERBA
Yer"ba, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Bot.)

Defn: An herb; a plant.

Note: This word is much used in compound names of plants in Spanish;
as, yerba buena Etym: [Sp., a good herb], a name applied in Spain to
several kinds of mint (Mentha sativa, viridis, etc.), but in
California universally applied to a common, sweet-scented labiate
plant (Micromeria Douglasii). Yerba dol osa. Etym: [Sp., herb of the
she-bear.] A kind of buckthorn (Rhamnus Californica).
 -- Yerba mansa. Etym: [Sp., a mild herb, soft herb.] A plant
(Anemopsis Californica) with a pungent, aromatic rootstock, used
medicinally by the Mexicans and the Indians.
 -- Yerba reuma. Etym: [Cf. Sp. reuma rheum, rheumatism.] A low
California undershrub (Frankenia grandifolia).

YERD
Yerd, n.

Defn: See 1st & 2d Yard. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YERK
Yerk, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Yerked; p. pr. & vb. n. Yerking.] Etym:
[See Yerk.]

1. To throw or thrust with a sudden, smart movement; to kick or
strike suddenly; to jerk.
Their wounded steeds . . . Yerk out their armed heels at their dead
masters. Shak.

2. To strike or lash with a whip. [Obs. or Scot.]

YERK
Yerk, v. i.

1. To throw out the heels; to kick; to jerk.
They flirt, they yerk, they backward . . . fling. Drayton.

2. To move a quick, jerking motion.

YERK
Yerk, n.

Defn: A sudden or quick thrust or motion; a jerk.

YERN
Yern, v. i.

Defn: See 3d Yearn. [Obs.]

YERN
Yern, a. Etym: [OE. ýern, ýeorne, AS. georn desirous, eager. See
Yearn to long.]

Defn: Eager; brisk; quick; active. [Obs.] "Her song . . . loud and
yern." Chaucer.

YERNE
Yerne, adv. Etym: [OE. ýeorne. See Yern, a.]

Defn: Eagerly; briskly; quickly. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
My hands and my tongue go so yerne. Chaucer.

YERNUT
Yer"nut`, n. Etym: [Cf. Dan. jordnöd, Sw. jordnöt, earthnut. Cf.
Jarnut.]

Defn: An earthnut, or groundnut. See Groundnut (d). [Written also
yarnut.]

YERST
Yerst, adv.

Defn: See Erst. [Obs.] Sylvester.

YES
Yes, adv. Etym: [OE. yis, ýis, ýes, ýise, AS. gese, gise; probably
fr. geá yea + swa so. sq. root188. See Yea, and So.]

Defn: Ay; yea; -- a word which expresses affirmation or consent; --
opposed to Ant: no.

Note: Yes is used, like yea, to enforce, by repetition or addition,
something which precedes; as, you have done all this -- yes, you have
done more. "Yes, you despise the man books confined." Pope.

Note: "The fine distinction between `yea' and `yes,' `nay' and `no,'
that once existed in English, has quite disappeared. `Yea' and `nay'
in Wyclif's time, and a good deal later, were the answers to
questions framed in the affirmative. `Will he come' To this it would
have been replied, `Yea' or `Nay', as the case might be. But, `Will
he not come' To this the answer would have been `Yes' or `No.' Sir
Thomas More finds fault with Tyndale, that in his translation of the
Bible he had not observed this distinction, which was evidently
therefore going out even then, that is, in the reign of Henry VIII.;
and shortly after it was quite forgotten." Trench.

YEST
Yest, n.

Defn: See Yeast. Shak.

YESTER
Yes"ter, a. Etym: [See Yesterday.]

Defn: Last; last past; next before; of or pertaining to yesterday.
[An enemy] whom yester sun beheld Mustering her charms. Dryden.

Note: This word is now seldom used except in a few compounds; as,
yesterday, yesternight, etc.

YESTERDAY
Yes"ter*day, n. Etym: [OE. ýisterdai, AS. geostran dæg, from
geostran, geostra, giestran, gistran, gystran, yesterday (akin to D.
gisteren, G. gestern, OHG. gestaron, Icel. gær yesterday, to-morrow,
Goth. gistradagis to-morrow, L. heri yesterday, Gr. hyas) + dæg day.
Cf. Hestern.

1. The day last past; the day next before the present.
All our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusty death. Shak.
We are but of yesterday, and know nothing. Job viii. 9.

2. Fig.: A recent time; time not long past.
The proudest royal houses are but of yesterday, when compared with
the line of supreme pontiffs. Macaulay.

YESTERDAY
Yes"ter*day, adv.

Defn: On the day last past; on the day preceding to-day; as, the
affair took place yesterday.

YESTEREVE; YESTER-EVENING
Yes"ter*eve`, Yes"ter-e`ven*ing, n.

Defn: The evening of yesterday; the evening last past.

YESTERMORN; YESTER-MORNING
Yes"ter*morn`, Yes"ter-morn`ing, n.

Defn: The morning of yesterday. Coleridge.

YESTERN
Yes"tern, a. Etym: [See Yester.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to yesterday; relating to the day last past.

YESTERNIGHT
Yes"ter*night`, n.

Defn: The last night; the night last past.

YESTERNIGHT
Yes"ter*night`, adv. Etym: [AS. gystran niht. See Yesterday.]

Defn: On the last night. B. Jonson.

YESTERNOON
Yes"ter*noon`, n.

Defn: The noon of yesterday; the noon last past.

YESTERWEEK
Yes"ter*week`, n.

Defn: The week last past; last week.

YESTERYEAR
Yes"ter*year`, n.

Defn: The year last past; last year.

YESTREEN
Yes`treen", n.

Defn: Yester-evening; yesternight; last night. [R. or Scot.]
Yestreen I did not know How largely I could live. Bp. Coxe.

YESTY
Yest"y, a.

Defn: See Yeasty. Shak.

YET
Yet, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large marine gastropods belonging
to the genus Yetus, or Cymba; a boat shell.

YET
Yet, adv. Etym: [OE. yet, ýet, ýit, AS. git, gyt, giet, gieta; akin
to OFries. ieta, eta, ita, MHG. iezuo, ieze, now, G. jetzo, jetzt.]

1. In addition; further; besides; over and above; still. "A little
longer; yet a little longer." Dryden.
This furnishes us with yet one more reason why our savior, lays such
a particular stress acts of mercy. Atterbury.
The rapine is made yet blacker by the pretense of piety and justice.
L'Estrange.

2. At the same time; by continuance from a former state; still.
Facts they had heard while they were yet heathens. Addison.

3. Up to the present time; thus far; hitherto; until now; -- and with
the negative, not yet, not up to the present time; not as soon as
now; as, Is it time to go Not yet. See As yet, under As, conj.
Ne never yet no villainy ne said. Chaucer.

4. Before some future time; before the end; eventually; in time. "He
'll be hanged yet." Shak.

5. Even; -- used emphatically.
Men may not too rashly believe the confessions of witches, nor yet
the evidence against them. Bacon.

YET
Yet, conj.

Defn: Nevertheless; notwithstanding; however.
Yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not
arrayed like one of these. Matt. vi. 29.

Syn.
 -- See However.

YEVE
Yeve, v. i.

Defn: To give. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YEVEN
Yev"en, p. p.

Defn: Given. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YEW
Yew, v. i.

Defn: See Yaw.

YEW
Yew, n. Etym: [OE. ew, AS. eów, iw, eoh; akin to D. ijf, OHG. iwa,
iha, G. eibe, Icel. ; cf. Ir. iubhar, Gael. iubhar, iughar, W. yw,
ywen, Lith. jëva the black alder tree.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An evergreen tree (Taxus baccata) of Europe, allied to the
pines, but having a peculiar berrylike fruit instead of a cone. It
frequently grows in British churchyards.

2. The wood of the yew. It is light red in color, compact, fine-
grained, and very elastic. It is preferred to all other kinds of wood
for bows and whipstocks, the best for these purposes coming from
Spain.

Note: The American yew (Taxus baccata, var. Canadensis) is a low and
straggling or prostrate bush, never forming an erect trunk. The
California yew (Taxus brevifolia) is a good-sized tree, and its wood
is used for bows, spear handles, paddles, and other similar
implements. Another yew is found in Florida, and there are species in
Japan and the Himalayas.

3. A bow for shooting, made of the yew.

YEW
Yew (u), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to yew trees; made of the wood of a yew tree;
as, a yew whipstock.

YEWEN
Yew"en, a.

Defn: Made of yew; as, yewen bows.

YEX
Yex, v. i. Etym: [OE. ýexen, yesken, AS. giscian to sob.]

Defn: To hiccough. [Written also yox, yux.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
He yexeth and he speaketh through the nose. Chaucer.

YEX
Yex, n. Etym: [AS. geocsa a sobbing, hiccough. Cf. Yex, v. i.]

Defn: A hiccough. [Written also yox, and yux.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
"The excessive yex." Holland.

YEZDEGERDIAN
Yez`de*ger"di*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Yezdegerd, the last Sassanian monarch of
Persia, who was overthrown by the Mohammedans; as, the Yezdegerdian
era, which began on the 16th of June, a. d. 632. The era is still
used by the Parsees.

YEZDI
Yez"di, n.

Defn: Same as Izedi. Taylor.

YEZIDEE; YEZIDI
Yez"i*dee, Yez"i*di, n.

Defn: Same as Izedi.

YFERE
Y*fere", adv.

Defn: Together. See Ifere. [Obs.]
As friends do when they be met yfere. Chaucer.

YGDRASYL
Yg"dra*syl, n. (Scand. Myth.)

Defn: See in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.

YGHE
Y"ghe, n.

Defn: Eye. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YGO
Y*go", obs. p. p. of Go.

Defn: Gone. Chaucer.

YGROUND
Y*ground", obs.

Defn: p. p. of Grind. Chaucer.

YHOLDE
Y*hold"e, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Hold. Chaucer.

YID
Yid, n. [See Yiddish.]

Defn: A Jew. [Slang or Colloq.] "Almost any young Yid who goes out
from among her people."  John Corbin.

YIDDISH
Yid"dish, n. [G. jüdisch, prop., Jewish, fr. Jude Jew. See Jew,
Jewish.]

Defn: A language used by German and other Jews, being a Middle German
dialect developed under Hebrew and Slavic influence. It is written in
Hebrew characters.

YIDDISHER
Yid"dish*er, n. [See Yiddish.]

Defn: A Yid. [Slang]

YIELD
Yield, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Yielded; obs. p. p. Yold; p. pr. & vb. n.
Yielding.] Etym: [OE. yelden, ýelden, ýilden, AS. gieldan, gildan, to
pay, give, restore, make an offering; akin to OFries. jelda, OS.
geldan, D. gelden to cost, to be worth, G. gelten, OHG. geltan to
pay, restore, make an offering, be worth, Icel. gjalda to pay, give
up, Dan. gielde to be worth, Sw. gälla to be worth, gälda to pay,
Goth. gildan in fragildan, usgildan. Cf. 1st Geld, Guild.]

1. To give in return for labor expended; to produce, as payment or
interest on what is expended or invested; to pay; as, money at
interest yields six or seven per cent.
To yelde Jesu Christ his proper rent. Chaucer.
When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee
her strength. Gen. iv. 12.

2. To furnish; to afford; to render; to give forth. "Vines yield
nectar." Milton.
[He] makes milch kine yield blood. Shak.
The wilderness yieldeth food for them and for their children. Job
xxiv. 5.

3. To give up, as something that is claimed or demanded; to make over
to one who has a claim or right; to resign; to surrender; to
relinquish; as a city, an opinion, etc.
And, force perforce, I'll make him yield the crown. Shak.
Shall yield up all their virtue, all their fame. Milton.

4. To admit to be true; to concede; to allow.
I yield it just, said Adam, and submit. Milton.

5. To permit; to grant; as, to yield passage.

6. To give a reward to; to bless. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Tend me to-night two hours, I ask no more, And the gods yield you for
't. Shak.
God yield thee, and God thank ye. Beau. & Fl.
To yield the breath, the ghost, or the life, to die; to expire; --
often followed by up.
One calmly yields his willing breath. Keble.

YIELD
Yield, v. i.

1. To give up the contest; to submit; to surrender; to succumb.
He saw the fainting Grecians yield. Dryden.

2. To comply with; to assent; as, I yielded to his request.

3. To give way; to cease opposition; to be no longer a hindrance or
an obstacle; as, men readily yield to the current of opinion, or to
customs; the door yielded.
Will ye relent, And yield to mercy while 't is offered you Shak.

4. To give place, as inferior in rank or excellence; as, they will
yield to us in nothing.
Nay tell me first, in what more happy fields The thistle springs, to
which the lily yields Pope.

YIELD
Yield, n.

Defn: Amount yielded; product; -- applied especially to products
resulting from growth or cultivation. "A goodly yield of fruit doth
bring." Bacon.

YIELDABLE
Yield"a*ble, a.

Defn: Disposed to yield or comply. [R.] -- Yield"a*ble*ness, n. [R.]
Bp. Hall.

YIELDANCE
Yield"ance, n.

1. The act of producing; yield; as, the yieldance of the earth. [R.]
Bp. Hall.

2. The act of yielding; concession. [R.] South.

YIELDER
Yield"er, n.

Defn: One who yields. Shak.

YIELDING
Yield"ing, a.

Defn: Inclined to give way, or comply; flexible; compliant;
accommodating; as, a yielding temper. Yielding and paying (Law), the
initial words of that clause in leases in which the rent to be paid
by the lessee is mentioned and reserved. Burrill.

Syn.
 -- Obsequious; attentive.
 -- Yielding, Obsequious, Attentive. In many cases a man may be
attentive or yielding in a high degree without any sacrifice of his
dignity; but he who is obsequious seeks to gain favor by excessive
and mean compliances for some selfish end.
 -- Yield"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Yield"ing*ness, n.

YIELDLESS
Yield"less, a.

Defn: Without yielding; unyielding. [Obs.]

YIFT
Yift, n.

Defn: Gift. [Obs.] "Great yiftes." Chaucer.

YIN
Yin, n.

Defn: A Chinese weight of 2

YIS
Yis, adv.

Defn: Yes. [Obs.]
"Yis, sir," quod he, "yis, host." Chaucer.

YIT
Yit, conj.

Defn: Yet. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YITE
Yite, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European yellow-hammer.

YIVE
Yive, v. t. & i.

Defn: To give. [Obs.] Chaucer.

-YL
-yl. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A suffix used as a characteristic termination of chemical
radicals; as in ethyl, carbonyl, hydroxyl, etc.

Note: -yl was first used in 1832 by Liebig and Wöhler in naming
benzoyl, in the sense of stuff, or fundamental material, then in 1834
by Dumas and Peligot in naming methyl, in the sense of wood. After
this -yl was generally used as in benzoyl, in the sense of stuff,
characteristic ground, fundamental material.

YLANG-YLANG
Y*lang`-y*lang", n.

Defn: See Ihlang-ihlang.

YLE
Yle, n.

Defn: Isle. [Obs.] "The barren yle." Chaucer.

Y LEVEL
Y" lev`el. (Surv.)

Defn: See under Y, n.

YLICHE; YLIKE
Y*liche", Y*like", a. & adv.

Defn: Like; alike. [Obs.] "All . . . yliche good." Chaucer.

YLLANRATON
Yl`lan*ra*ton", n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The agouara.

YMAKED
Y*mak"ed, obs. p. p. of Make.

Defn: Made.

YMEL
Y*mel", prep. Etym: [OE. ymel, imelle, of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. i
milli, i millum (properly, in the middle, fr. mi, me, middle, akin to
E. middle), Dan. imellem, Sw. emellan. See In, and Middle.]

Defn: Among. [Obs.] "Ymel them all." Chaucer.

YNAMBU
Y*nam"bu, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American tinamou (Rhynchotus rufescens); -- called also
perdiz grande, and rufous tinamou. See Illust. of Tinamou.

YNOUGH; YNOW
Y*nough", Y*now", a. Etym: [See Enough.]

Defn: Enough. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YOCKEL
Yock"el, n. Etym: [Cf. Yokel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The yaffle.

YODE
Yode, obs. imp. of Go. Etym: [OE. yode, yede, , , eode, AS. eóde,
used as the imp. of gan to go; akin to Goth. iddja I, he, went, L.
ire to go, Gr. i, ya. Issue.]

Defn: Went; walked; proceeded. [Written also yede.] See Yede.
Quer [whether] they rade [rode] or yoke. Cursor Mundi.
Then into Cornhill anon I yode. Lydgate.

YODEL; YODLE
Yo"del, Yo"dle, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Yodeled, Yodled; p. pr. &
vb. n. Yodeling, Yodling.] Etym: [G. jodeln.]

Defn: To sing in a manner common among the Swiss and Tyrolese
mountaineers, by suddenly changing from the head voice, or falsetto,
to the chest voice, and the contrary; to warble.

YODEL; YODLE
Yo"del, Yo"dle, n.

Defn: A song sung by yodeling, as by the Swiss mountaineers.

YODLER
Yo"dler, n.

Defn: One who yodels.

YOGA
Yo"ga, n. Etym: [Skr. yoga union.]

Defn: A species of asceticism among the Hindoos, which consists in a
complete abstraction from all worldly objects, by which the votary
expects to obtain union with the universal spirit, and to acquire
superhuman faculties.

YOGI
Yo"gi, n. Etym: [Skr. yogin.]

Defn: A follower of the yoga philosophy; an ascetic. [Spelt also
yokin.] Whitworth.

YOGISM
Yo"gism, n.

Defn: Yoga, or its practice.

YOICKS
Yo"icks, interj. (Hunting)

Defn: A cry of encouragement to foxhounds.

YOIT
Yoit, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European yellow-hammer. [Prov. Eng.]

YOJAN
Yo"jan, n. Etym: [Skr. y.]

Defn: A measure of distance, varying from four to ten miles, but
usually about five. [India] [Written also yojana.]

YOKE
Yoke, n. Etym: [OE. yok, , AS. geoc; akin to D. juk, OHG. joh, G.
joch, Icel. & Sw. ok, Dan. aag, Goth. juk, Lith. jungas, Russ. igo,
L. jugum, Gr. yuga, and to L. jungere to join, Gr. yui. Join, Jougs,
Joust, Jugular, Subjugate, Syzycy, Yuga, Zeugma.]

1. A bar or frame of wood by which two oxen are joined at the heads
or necks for working together.
A yearling bullock to thy name shall smoke, Untamed, unconscious of
the galling yoke. Pope.

Note: The modern yoke for oxen is usually a piece of timber hollowed,
or made curving, near each end, and laid on the necks of the oxen,
being secured in place by two bows, one inclosing each neck, and
fastened through the timber. In some countries the yoke consists of a
flat piece of wood fastened to the foreheads of the oxen by thongs
about the horns.

2. A frame or piece resembling a yoke, as in use or shape.
Specifically:
(a) A frame of wood fitted to a person's shoulders for carrying
pails, etc., suspended on each side; as, a milkmaid's yoke.
(b) A frame worn on the neck of an animal, as a cow, a pig, a goose,
to prevent passage through a fence.
(c) A frame or convex piece by which a bell is hung for ringing it.
See Illust. of Bell.
(d) A crosspiece upon the head of a boat's rudder. To its ends lines
are attached which lead forward so that the boat can be steered from
amidships.
(e) (Mach.) A bent crosspiece connecting two other parts.
(f) (Arch.) A tie securing two timbers together, not used for part of
a regular truss, but serving a temporary purpose, as to provide
against unusual strain.
(g) (Dressmaking) A band shaped to fit the shoulders or the hips, and
joined to the upper full edge of the waist or the skirt.

3. Fig.: That which connects or binds; a chain; a link; a bond
connection.
Boweth your neck under that blissful yoke . . . Which that men
clepeth spousal or wedlock. Chaucer.
This yoke of marriage from us both remove. Dryden.

4. A mark of servitude; hence, servitude; slavery; bondage; service.
Our country sinks beneath the yoke. Shak.
My yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Matt. xi. 30.

5. Two animals yoked together; a couple; a pair that work together.
I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them. Luke xiv.
19.

6. The quantity of land plowed in a day by a yoke of oxen. [Obs.]
Gardner.

7. A portion of the working day; as, to work two yokes, that is, to
work both portions of the day, or morning and afternoon. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell. Neck yoke, Pig yoke. See under Neck, and Pig.
 -- Yoke elm (Bot.), the European hornbeam (Carpinus Betulus), a
small tree with tough white wood, often used for making yokes for
cattle.

YOKE
Yoke, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Yoked; p. pr. & vb. n. Yoking.]

1. To put a yoke on; to join in or with a yoke; as, to yoke oxen, or
pair of oxen.

2. To couple; to join with another. "Be ye not unequally yoked with
unbelievers." 2 Cor. vi. 14.
Cassius, you are yoked with a lamb. Shak.

3. To enslave; to bring into bondage; to restrain; to confine.
Then were they yoked with garrisons. Milton.
The words and promises that yoke The conqueror are quickly broke.
Hudibras.

YOKE
Yoke, v. i.

Defn: To be joined or associated; to be intimately connected; to
consort closely; to mate.
We 'll yoke together, like a double shadow. Shak.

YOKEAGE
Yoke"age, n.

Defn: See Rokeage. [Local, U. S.]

YOKEFELLOW
Yoke"fel`low, n. Etym: [Yoke + fellow.]

Defn: An associate or companion in, or as in; a mate; a fellow;
especially, a partner in marriage. Phil. iv. 3.
The two languages [English and French] became yokefellows in a still
more intimate manner. Earle.
Those who have most distinguished themselves by railing at the sex,
very often choose one of the most worthless for a companion and
yokefellow. Addison.

YOKEL
Yo"kel, n. Etym: [Perhaps from an AS. word akin to E. gawk.]

Defn: A country bumpkin. [Eng.] Dickens.

YOKELET
Yoke"let, n.

Defn: A small farm; -- so called as requiring but one yoke of oxen to
till it. [Prov. Eng.]

YOKEMATE
Yoke"mate`, n.

Defn: Same as Yokefellow.

YOKE-TOED
Yoke"-toed`, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having two toes in front and two behind, as the trogons and
woodpeckers.

YOLD
Yold, obs. p. p. of Yield.

Defn: Yielded. Spenser.

YOLDEN
Yold"en, obs. p. p. of Yield.

Defn: Yielded.

YOLK
Yolk, n. Etym: [OE. yolke, yelke, ýolke, ýelke, AS. geoloca, geoleca,
fr. geolu yellow. See Yellow.] [Written also yelk.]

1. The yellow part of an egg; the vitellus.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An oily secretion which naturally covers the wool of sheep.
Yolk cord (Zoöl.), a slender cord or duct which connects the yolk
glands with the egg chambers in certain insects, as in the aphids.
 -- Yolk gland (Zoöl.), a special organ which secretes the yolk of
the eggs in many turbellarians, and in some other invertebrates. See
Illust. of Hermaphrodite in Appendix.
 -- Yolk sack (Anat.), the umbilical vesicle. See under Unbilical.

YOLL
Yoll, v. i.

Defn: To yell. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YOM
Yom, n. [Heb. yom.]

Defn: Day; -- a Hebrew word used in the names of various Jewish feast
days; as, Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement; Yom Teruah (lit., day of
shouting), the Feast of Trumpets.

YON
Yon, a. Etym: [OE. yon, , AS. geon; akin to G. jener, OHG. jen, Icel.
enn, inn; cf. Goth. jains. Beyond, Yond, Yonder.]

Defn: At a distance, but within view; yonder. [Poetic]
Read thy lot in yon celestial sign. Milton.
Though fast yon shower be fleeting. Keble.

YON
Yon, adv.

Defn: Yonder. [Obs. or Poetic]
But, first and chiefest, with thee bring Him that yon soars on golden
wing. Milton.

YONCOPIN
Yon"co*pin, n. Etym: [Perhaps corrupted from Illinois micoupena,
Chippewa makopin, the American lotus.] (Bot.)

Defn: A local name in parts of the Mississippi Valley for the
American lotus (Nelumbo lutea).

YOND
Yond, a. Etym: [Cf. AS. anda, onda, anger, andian to be angry.]

Defn: Furious; mad; angry; fierce. [Obs.] "Then wexeth wood and
yond." Spenser.

YOND
Yond, adv. & a. Etym: [OE. yond, ýond, ýeond, through, beyond, over,
AS. geond, adv. & prep.; cf. Goth. jaind thither. sq. root188. See
Yon, a.]

Defn: Yonder. [Obs.] "Yond in the garden." Chaucer.

YONDER
Yon"der, adv. Etym: [OE. yonder, ýonder; cf. OD. ginder, Goth. jaindr
there. Yond, adv.]

Defn: At a distance, but within view.
Yonder are two apple women scolding. Arbuthnot.

YONDER
Yon"der, a.

Defn: Being at a distance within view, or conceived of as within
view; that or those there; yon. "Yon flowery arbors, yonder alleys
green." Milton. "Yonder sea of light." Keble.
Yonder men are too many for an embassage. Bacon.

YONI
Yo"ni, n. Etym: [Skr. y.] (Hindoo Myth.)

Defn: The symbol under which Sakti, or the personification of the
female power in nature, is worshiped. Cf. Lingam.

YONKER
Yon"ker, n. Etym: [See Younker.]

Defn: A young fellow; a younker. [Obs. or Colloq.] Sir W. Scott.

YORE
Yore, adv. Etym: [OE. , yare, , AS. geára;akin to geár a year, E.
year. Year.]

Defn: In time long past; in old time; long since. [Obs. or Poetic]
As it hath been of olde times yore. Chaucer.
Which though he hath polluted oft and yore, Yet I to them for
judgment just do fly. Spenser.
Of yore, of old time; long ago; as, in times or days of yore. "But
Satan now is wiser than of yore." Pope.
Where Abraham fed his flock of yore. Keble.

YORKER
York"er, n. (Cricket)

Defn: A tice.

YORK RITE
York rite. (Freemasonry)

Defn: The rite or ceremonial observed by one of the Masonic systems,
deriving its name from the city of York, in England; also, the system
itself, which, in England, confers only the first three degrees.

YORKSHIRE
York"shire, n.

Defn: A county in the north of England. Yorkshire grit, a kind of
stone used for polishing marble, and copperplates for engravers.
Simmonds.
 -- Yorkshire pudding, a batter pudding baked under meat.

YORK USE
York" use`. (Eccl.)

Defn: The one of the three printed uses of England which was followed
in the north. It was based on the Sarum use. See Use, n., 6. Shipley.

YOT
Yot, v. t.

Defn: To unite closely. [Prov. Eng.]

YOTE
Yote, v. t. Etym: [OE. , , to pour, AS. geótan. See Found to cast.]

Defn: To pour water on; to soak in, or mix with, water. [Obs. or
Prov. Eng.] Grose.
My fowls, which well enough, I, as before, found feeding at their
trough Their yoted wheat. Chapman.

YOU
You, pron. [Possess. Your or Yours (; dat. & obj. You.] Etym: [OE.
you, eou, eow, dat. & acc., AS. eów, used as dat. & acc. of ge, g,
ye; akin to OFries. iu, io, D. u, G. euch, OHG. iu, dat., iuwih,
acc., Icel. y, dat. & acc., Goth. izwis; of uncertain origin. sq.
root189. Cf. Your.]

Defn: The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative,
and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed. See
the Note under Ye.
Ye go to Canterbury; God you speed. Chaucer.
Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you To leave this place. Shak.
In vain you tell your parting lover You wish fair winds may waft him
over. Prior.

Note: Though you is properly a plural, it is in all ordinary
discourse used also in addressing a single person, yet properly
always with a plural verb. "Are you he that hangs the verses on the
trees, wherein Rosalind is so admired " Shak. You and your are
sometimes used indefinitely, like we, they, one, to express persons
not specified. "The looks at a distance like a new-plowed land; but
as you come near it, you see nothing but a long heap of heavy,
disjointed clods." Addison. "Your medalist and critic are much nearer
related than the world imagine." Addison. "It is always pleasant to
be forced to do what you wish to do, but what, until pressed, you
dare not attempt." Hook. You is often used reflexively for yourself
of yourselves. "Your highness shall repose you at the tower." Shak.

YOUL
Youl, v. i.

Defn: To yell; to yowl. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YOUNG
Young, a. [Compar. Younger; superl. Youngest.] Etym: [OE. yung, yong,
, , AS. geong; akin to OFries. iung, iong, D. joing, OS., OHG., & G.
jung, Icel. ungr, Sw. & Dan. ung, Goth. juggs, Lith. jaunas, Russ.
iunuii, L. juvencus, juvenis, Skr. juva, juven. Junior, Juniper,
Juvenile, Younker, Youth.]

1. Not long born; still in the first part of life; not yet arrived at
adolescence, maturity, or age; not old; juvenile; -- said of animals;
as, a young child; a young man; a young fawn.
For he so young and tender was of age. Chaucer.
"Whom the gods love, die young," has been too long carelessly said; .
. . whom the gods love, live young forever. Mrs. H. H. Jackson.

2. Being in the first part, pr period, of growth; as, a young plant;
a young tree.
While the fears of the people were young. De Foe.

3. Having little experience; inexperienced; unpracticed; ignorant;
weak.
Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this. Shak.

YOUNG
Young, n.

Defn: The offspring of animals, either a single animal or offspring
collectively.
[The egg] bursting with kindly rupture, forth disclosed Their callow
young. Milton.
With young, with child; pregnant.

YOUNGGER
Young"ger, n.

Defn: One who is younger; an inferior in age; a junior. "The elder
shall serve the younger." Rom. ix. 12.

YOUNGISH
Young"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat young. Tatler.

YOUNGLING
Young"ling, n. Etym: [AS. geongling.]

Defn: A young person; a youth; also, any animal in its early life.
"More dear . . . than younglings to their dam." Spenser.
He will not be so willing, I think, to join with you as with us
younglings. Ridley.

YOUNGLING
Young"ling, a.

Defn: Young; youthful. Wordsworth.

YOUNGLY
Young"ly, a. Etym: [AS. geonglic.]

Defn: Like a young person or thing; young; youthful. [Obs.] Shak.

YOUNGLY
Young"ly, adv.

1. In a young manner; in the period of youth; early in life. [Obs.]
Shak.

2. Ignorantly; weakly. [R.]

YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION
Young Men's Christian Association.

Defn: An organization for promoting the spiritual, intellectual,
social, and physical welfare of young men, founded, June 6, 1844, by
George Williams (knighted therefor by Queen Victoria) in London. In
1851 it extended to the United States and Canada, and in 1855
representatives of similar organizations throughout Europe and
America formed an international body. The movement has successfully
expanded not only among young men in general, but also specifically
among railroad men, in the army and navy, with provision for Indians
and negroes, and a full duplication of all the various lines of
oepration in the boys' departments.

YOUNGNESS
Young"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being young.

YOUNG ONE
Young one.

Defn: A young human being; a child; also, a young animal, as a colt.

YOUNGSTER
Young"ster, n.

Defn: A young person; a youngling; a lad. [Colloq.] "He felt himself
quite a youngster, with a long life before him." G. Eliot.

YOUNGTH
Youngth, n.

Defn: Youth. [Obs.]
Youngth is a bubble blown up with breath. Spenser.

YOUNGTHLY
Youngth"ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, youth; youthful. [Obs.] Spenser.

YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION
Young Women's Christian Association.

Defn: An organization for promoting the spiritual, intellectual,
social, and economic welfare of young women, originating in 1855 with
Lady Kinnaird's home for young women, and Miss Emma Robert's prayer
union for young women,in England, which were combined in the year
1884 as a national association. Now nearly all the civilized
countries, and esp. the United States, have local, national, and
international organizations.

YOUNKER
Youn"ker, n. Etym: [D. jonker, jonkeer; jong young + heer a lord,
sir, gentleman. See Young, a.]

Defn: A young person; a stripling; a yonker. [Obs. or Colloq.]
That same younker soon was overthrown. Spenser.

YOUPON
You"pon, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Yaupon.

YOUR
Your, pron. & a. Etym: [OE. your, , eowr, eower, AS. eówer,
originally used as the gen. of ge, ge, ye; akin to OFries. iuwer
your, OS. iuwar, D. uw, OHG. iuwer, G. euer, Icel. ythar, Goth.
izwara, izwar, and E. you. *189. See You.]

Defn: The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you.

Note: The possessive takes the form yours when the noun to which it
refers is not expressed, but implied; as, this book is yours. "An old
fellow of yours." Chaucer.

YOURS
Yours, pron.

Defn: See the Note under Your.

YOURS
Yours (ürz), pron.

Defn: See the Note under Your.

YOURSELF
Your*self", pron.; pl. Yourselves. Etym: [Your + self.]

Defn: An emphasized or reflexive form of the pronoun of the second
person; -- used as a subject commonly with you; as, you yourself
shall see it; also, alone in the predicate, either in the nominative
or objective case; as, you have injured yourself.
Of which right now ye han yourselve heard. Chaucer.
If yourselves are old, make it your cause. Shak.
Why should you be so cruel to yourself Milton.
The religious movement which you yourself, as well as I, so
faithfully followed from first to last. J. H. Newman.

YOUTH
Youth (uth), n.; pl. Youths (uths; 264) or collectively Youth. Etym:
[OE. youthe, youhþe, ýuhethe, ýuwethe, ýeoýethe, AS. geoguth,
geogoth; akin to OS. jugth, D. jeugd, OHG. jugund, G. jugend, Goth.
junda. *281. See Young.]

1. The quality or state of being young; youthfulness; juvenility. "In
my flower of youth." Milton.
Such as in his face Youth smiled celestial. Milton.

2. The part of life that succeeds to childhood; the period of
existence preceding maturity or age; the whole early part of life,
from childhood, or, sometimes, from infancy, to manhood.
He wondered that your lordship Would suffer him to spend his youth at
home. Shak.
Those who pass their youth in vice are justly condemned to spend
their age in folly. Rambler.

3. A young person; especially, a young man.
Seven youths from Athens yearly sent. Dryden.

4. Young persons, collectively.
It is fit to read the best authors to youth first. B. Jonson.

YOUTHFUL
Youth"ful, a.

1. Not yet mature or aged; young. "Two youthful knights." Dryden.

Defn: Also used figuratively. "The youthful season of the year."
Shak.

2. Of or pertaining to the early part of life; suitable to early
life; as, youthful days; youthful sports. "Warm, youthful blood."
Shak. "Youthful thoughts." Milton.

3. Fresh; vigorous, as in youth.
After millions of millions of ages . . . still youthful and
flourishing. Bentley.

Syn.
 -- Puerile; juvenile.
 -- Youthful, Puerile, Juvenile. Puerile is always used in a bad
sense, or at least in the sense of what is suitable to a boy only;
as, puerile objections, puerile amusements, etc. Juvenile is
sometimes taken in a bad sense, as when speaking of youth in contrast
with manhood; as, juvenile tricks; a juvenile performance. Youthful
is commonly employed in a good sense; as, youthful aspirations; or at
least by way of extenuating; as, youthful indiscretions. "Some men,
imagining themselves possessed with a divine fury, often fall into
toys and trifles, which are only puerilities." Dryden. "Raw, juvenile
writers imagine that, by pouring forth figures often, they render
their compositions warm and animated." Blair.
 -- Youth"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Youth"ful*ness, n.

YOUTHHOOD
Youth"hood, n. Etym: [AS. geoguedhhad. See Youth, and -hood.]

Defn: The quality or state of being a youth; the period of youth.
Cheyne.

YOUTHLY
Youth"ly, a. Etym: [AS. geoguedhlic.]

Defn: Young; youthful. [Obs.] "All my youthly days." Spenser.

YOUTHSOME
Youth"some, a.

Defn: Youthful. [Obs.] Pepys.

YOUTHY
Youth"y, a.

Defn: Young. [Obs.] Spectator.

YOUZE
Youze, n. Etym: [From a native East Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cheetah.

YOW
Yow, pron.

Defn: You. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YOWE
Yowe, n. Etym: [See Ewe.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A ewe. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] G. Eliot.

YOWL
Yowl, v. i. Etym: [See Yawl, v. i.]

Defn: To utter a loud, long, and mournful cry, as a dog; to howl; to
yell.

YOWL
Yowl, n.

Defn: A loud, protracted, and mournful cry, as that of a dog; a howl.

YOWLEY
Yow"ley, n. Etym: [Cf. Yellow.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European yellow-hammer. [Prov. Eng.]

YOX
Yox, v. i.

Defn: See Yex. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YPIGHT
Y*pight", obs. p. p. of Pitch.

Defn: See Pight.

YPOCRAS
Yp"o*cras, n.

Defn: Hippocras. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YPRES LACE
Y"pres lace`.

Defn: Fine bobbin lace made at Ypres in Belgium, usually exactly like
Valenciennes lace.

YPSILIFORM
Yp*sil"i*form, a. Etym: [Gr. -form.] (Biol.)

Defn: Resembling the

YPSILOID
Yp"si*loid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: In the form of the letter Y; Y-shaped.

YRAFT
Y*raft", obs. p. p. of Reave.

Defn: Bereft. Chaucer.

YREN
Yr"en, n.

Defn: Iron. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YRONNE
Y*ron"ne, obs. p. p. of Run.

Defn: Run. Chaucer.

YSAME
Y*same", adv. Etym: [See Same.]

Defn: Together. [Obs.] "And in a bag all sorts of seeds ysame."
Spenser.

YT
Yt.

Defn: , an old method of printing that (AS. æt, edhæt) the "y" taking
the place of the old letter "Þ"). Cf. Ye, the.

YT; YT
Yt, Yt (that),

Defn: an old method of printing that (AS. þæt, ðæt) the "y" taking
the place of the old letter "thorn" (þ).  Cf. Ye, the.

YTHROWE
Y*throwe", obs.

Defn: p. p. of Throw. Chaucer.

YTTERBIC
Yt*ter"bic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, ytterbium; containing
ytterbium.

YTTERBIUM
Yt*ter"bi*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Ytterby, in Sweden. See Erbium.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A rare element of the boron group, sometimes associated with
yttrium or other related elements, as in euxenite and gadolinite.
Symbol Yb; provisional atomic weight 173.2. Cf. Yttrium.

Note: Ytterbium is associated with other rare elements, and probably
has not been prepared in a pure state.

YTTRIA
Yt"tri*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Yttrium.] (Chem.)

Defn: The oxide, Y2O3, or earth, of yttrium.

YTTRIC
Yt"tric, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, yttrium.

YTTRIFEROUS
Yt*trif"er*ous, a.

Defn: Bearing or containing yttrium or the allied elements; as,
gadolinite is one of the yttriferous minerals.

YTTRIOUS
Yt"tri*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Yttric.

YTTRIUM
Yt"tri*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Ytterby, in Sweden. See Erbium.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A rare metallic element of the boron-aluminium group, found in
gadolinite and other rare minerals, and extracted as a dark gray
powder. Symbol Y. Atomic weight, 89. [Written also ittrium.]

Note: Associated with yttrium are certain rare elements, as erbium,
ytterbium, samarium, etc., which are separated in a pure state with
great difficulty. They are studied by means of their spark or
phosphorescent spectra. Yttrium is now regarded as probably not a
simple element, but as a mixture of several substances.

YTTRO-CERITE
Yt`tro-ce"rite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a violet-blue color, inclining to gray and white.
It is a hydrous fluoride of cerium, yttrium, and calcium.

YTTRO-COLUMBITE; YTTRO-TANTALITE
Yt`tro-co*lum"bite, Yt`tro-tan"ta*lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A tantalate of uranium, yttrium, and calcium, of a brown or
black color.

YU
Yu, n. Etym: [Chin.] (Min.)

Defn: Jade.

YUCCA
Yuc"ca, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Flicker, n., 2.

YUCCA
Yuc"ca, n. Etym: [NL., from Yuca, its name in St. Domingo.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of American liliaceous, sometimes arborescent, plants
having long, pointed, and often rigid, leaves at the top of a more or
less woody stem, and bearing a large panicle of showy white blossoms.

Note: The species with more rigid leaves (as Yucca aloifolia, Y.
Treculiana, and Y. baccata) are called Spanish bayonet, and one with
softer leaves (Y. filamentosa) is called bear grass, and Adam's
needle. Yucca moth (Zoöl.), a small silvery moth (Pronuba yuccasella)
whose larvæ feed on plants of the genus Yucca.

YUCCA BORER
Yuc"ca bor`er.
 (a) A California boring weevil (Yuccaborus frontalis).
 (b) A large mothlike butterfly (Megathymus yuccæ) of the family
Megatimidæ, whose larva bores in yucca roots.

YUCK
Yuck, v. i. Etym: [Cf. G. jucken, D. yeuken, joken. See Itch.]

Defn: To itch. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.

YUCK
Yuck, v. t.

Defn: To scratch. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

YUCKEL
Yuck"el, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Yockel.

YUEN
Yu"en, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The crowned gibbon (Hylobates pileatus), native of Siam,
Southern China, and the Island of Hainan. It is entirely arboreal in
its habits, and has very long arms. the males are dark brown or
blackish, with a caplike mass of long dark hair, and usually with a
white band around the face. The females are yellowish white, with a
dark spot on the breast and another on the crown. Called also wooyen,
and wooyen ape.

YUFTS
Yufts, n. Etym: [Russ. iufte.]

Defn: Russia leather.

YUG; YUGA
Yug, Yu"ga, n. Etym: [Skr. yuga an age, a yoke. See Yoke.] (Hindoo
Cosmog.)

Defn: Any one of the four ages, Krita, or Satya, Treta, Dwapara, and
Kali, into which the Hindoos divide the duration or existence of the
world.

YUKE
Yuke, v. i. & t.

Defn: Same as Yuck. [Prov. Eng.]

YULAN
Yu"lan, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Magnolia (M. conspicua) with large white blossoms
that open before the leaves. See the Note under Magnolia.

YULE
Yule, n. Etym: [OE. yol, ýol, AS. geól; akin to geóla December or
January, Icel. jol Yule, Ylir the name of a winter month, Sw. jul
Christmas, Dan. juul, Goth. jiuleis November or December. Cf. Jolly.]

Defn: Christmas or Christmastide; the feast of the Nativity of our
Savior.
And at each pause they kiss; was never seen such rule In any place
but here, at bonfire, or at Yule. Drayton.
Yule block, or Yule log, a large log of wood formerly put on the
hearth of Christmas eve, as the foundation of the fire. It was
brought in with much ceremony.
 -- Yule clog, the yule log. Halliwell. W. Irving.

YULETIDE
Yule"tide`, n.

Defn: Christmas time; Christmastide; the season of Christmas.

YUMAN
Yu"man, a.

Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, an important linguistic stock of
North American Indians of the southwestern United States and
northwestern Mexico, nearly all agriculturists and adept potters and
basket makers. Their usual dwelling is the brush wikiup, and in their
native state they wear little clothing. The Yuma, Maricopa, Mohave,
Walapi, and Yavapai are among the chief tribes, all of fine physique.

YUMAS
Yu"mas, n. pl.; sing. Yuma (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians native of Arizona and the adjacent parts of
Mexico and California. They are agricultural, and cultivate corn,
wheat, barley, melons, etc.

Note: The a wider sense, the term sometimes includes the Mohaves and
other allied tribes.

YUNCA
Yun"ca (yoon"ka), n.

Defn: An Indian of a linguistic stock of tribes of the Peruvian coast
who had a developed agricultural civilization at the advent of the
Spaniards, before which they had been conquered by the Incas. They
constructed irrigation canals which are still in use, adorned their
buildings with bas-reliefs and frescoes, and were skilled goldsmiths
and silversmiths. -- Yun"can (#), a.

YUNX
Yunx, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of birds comprising the wrynecks.

YUPON
Yu"pon, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Yaupon.

YUX
Yux, n. & v.

Defn: See Yex, n. [Obs.]

YVEL
Y"vel, a. & adv.

Defn: Evil; ill. [Obs.] Chaucer.

YWAR
Y*war", a. Etym: [See Aware.]

Defn: Aware; wary. [Obs.] "Be ywar, and his way shun." Piers Plowman.

YWIS
Y*wis", adv. Etym: [OE. ywis, iwis, AS. gewis certain; akin to D.
gewis, G. gewiss, and E. wit to know. See Wit to know, and Y-.]

Defn: Certainly; most likely; truly; probably. [Obs. or Archaic]
"Ywis," quod he, "it is full dear, I say." Chaucer.
She answered me, "I-wisse, all their sport in the park is but a
shadow to that pleasure that I find in Plato." Ascham.
A right good knight, and true of word ywis. Spenser.

Note: The common form iwis was often written with the prefix apart
from the rest of the word and capitalized, as, I wis, I wisse, etc.
The prefix was mistaken for the pronoun, I and wis, wisse, for a form
of the verb wit to know. See Wis, and cf. Wit, to know.
Our ship, I wis, Shall be of another form than this. Longfellow.


[END]

End of Project Gutenberg's Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***

***** This file should be named 29765-8.txt or 29765-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/7/6/29765/

Produced by Graham Lawrence

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
