The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***




Produced by Graham Lawrence

[START]

Z
Z (ze; in England commonly, and in America sometimes, zêd; formerly,
also, îz"zêrd)

Defn: Z, the twenty-sixth and last letter of the English alphabet, is
a vocal consonant. It is taken from the Latin letter Z, which came
from the Greek alphabet, this having it from a Semitic source. The
ultimate origin is probably Egyptian. Etymologically, it is most
closely related to s, y, and j; as in glass, glaze; E. yoke, Gr.
yugum; E. zealous, jealous. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 273, 274.

ZA
Za, n. (Min.)

Defn: An old solfeggio name for B flat; the seventh harmonic, as
heard in the or æolian string; -- so called by Tartini. It was long
considered a false, but is the true note of the chord of the flat
seventh. H. W. Poole.

ZABAISM; ZABISM
Za"ba*ism, Za"bism, n.

Defn: See Sabianism.

ZABIAN
Za"bi*an, a. & n.

Defn: See Sabian.

ZACCO
Zac"co, n. (Arch.)

Defn: See Zocco.

ZACHUN
Za*chun", n. (Bot.)

Defn: An oil pressed by the Arabs from the fruit of a small thorny
tree (Balanites Ægyptiaca), and sold to piligrims for a healing
ointment. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants).

ZAERTHE
Zaer"the, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Zärthe.

ZAFFER
Zaf"fer, n. Etym: [F. zafre, safre; cf. Sp. zafra, safra, It.
saffera, G. zaffer; all probably of Arabic origin. Cf. Zaphara.]

Defn: A pigment obtained, usually by roasting cobalt glance with sand
or quartz, as a dark earthy powder. It consists of crude cobalt
oxide, or of an impure cobalt arseniate. It is used in porcelain
painting, and in enameling pottery, to produce a blue color, and is
often confounded with smalt, from which, however, it is distinct, as
it contains no potash. The name is often loosely applied to mixtures
of zaffer proper with silica, or oxides of iron, manganese, etc.
[Written also zaffre, and formerly zaffree, zaffar, zaffir.]

ZAIM
Zaim, n. Etym: [Turk. & Ar. za'im.]

Defn: A Turkish chief who supports a mounted militia bearing the same
name. Smart.

ZAIMET
Zaim"et, n. Etym: [Turk. & Ar. za'imet.]

Defn: A district from which a Zaim draws his revenue. Smart.

ZAIN
Zain, n.

Defn: A horse of a dark color, neither gray nor white, and having no
spots. Smart.

ZALAMBDODONT
Za*lamb"do*dont, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a tribe (Zalambdodonta) of Insectivora in
which the molar teeth have but one V-shaped ridge.

ZALAMBDODONT
Za*lamb"do*dont, n.

Defn: One of the Zalambdodonta. The tenrec, solenodon, and golden
moles are examples.

ZAMANG
Za*mang", n. (Bot.)

Defn: An immense leguminous tree (Pithecolobium Saman) of Venezuela.
Its branches form a hemispherical mass, often one hundred and eighty
feet across. The sweet pulpy pods are used commonly for feeding
cattle. Also called rain tree. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants).

ZAMBO
Zam"bo, n.; pl. Zambos. Etym: [See Sambo.]

Defn: The child of a mulatto and a negro; also, the child of an
Indian and a negro; colloquially or humorously, a negro; a sambo.

ZAMIA
Za"mi*a, n. Etym: [L. zamia a kind of fir cone, from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of cycadaceous plants, having the appearance of low
palms, but with exogenous wood. See Coontie, and Illust. of Strobile.

ZAMINDAR
Zam`in*dar", n. Etym: [Hind. zemindar, zamindar, a landholder, Per.
zamindar; zamin land dar holding.]

Defn: A landowner; also, a collector of land revenue; now, usually, a
kind of feudatory recognized as an actual proprietor so long as he
pays to the government a certain fixed revenue. [Written also
zemindar.] [India]

ZAMINDARY; ZAMINDARI
Zam"in*da*ry, Zam"in*da*ri, n.

Defn: The jurisdiction of a zamindar; the land possessed by a
zamindar. [Written also zemindary, zemindari.]

ZAMITE
Za"mite, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil cycad of the genus Zamia.

ZAMOUSE
Za*mouse", n. Etym: [From a native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A West African buffalo (Bubalus brachyceros) having short horns
depressed at the base, and large ears fringed internally with three
rows of long hairs. It is destitute of a dewlap. Called also short-
horned buffalo, and bush cow.

ZAMPOGNA
Zam*po"gna, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A sort of bagpipe formerly in use among Italian peasants. It is
now almost obsolete. [Written also zampugna.]

ZANDER
Zan"der, n. Etym: [Cf. D. zand sand.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European pike perch (Stizostedion lucioperca) allied to the
wall-eye; -- called also sandari, sander, sannat, schill, and zant.

ZANDMOLE
Zand"mole`, n. Etym: [Cf. D. zand sand. See Sand, and Mole the
animal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sand mole.

ZANTE
Zan"te, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Zantewood.

ZANTE CURRANT
Zan"te cur"rant.

Defn: A kind of seedless grape or raisin; -- so called from Zante,
one of the Ionian Islands.

ZANTEWOOD
Zan"te*wood`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A yellow dyewood; fustet; -- called also zante, and zante fustic.
See Fustet, and the Note under Fustic.
(b) Satinwood (Chloroxylon Swietenia).

ZANTIOT
Zan"ti*ot, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Zante, one of the Ionian Islands.

ZANY
Za"ny, n.; pl. Zanies. Etym: [It. zanni a buffoon, merry-andrew,
orig. same as Giovanni John, i. e., merry John, L. Ioannes, Gr.
Yokhanan, prop., the Lord graciously gave: cf. F. zani, fr. the
Italian. Cf. Jenneting.]

Defn: A merry-andrew; a buffoon.
Then write that I may follow, and so be Thy echo, thy debtor, thy
foil, thy zany. Donne.
Preacher at once, and zany of thy age. Pope.

ZANY
Za"ny, v. t.

Defn: To mimic. [Obs.]
Your part is acted; give me leave at distance To zany it. Massinger.

ZANYISM
Za"ny*ism, n.

Defn: State or character of a zany; buffoonery. Coleridge. H. Morley.

ZAPAS
Za*pas", n. [Russ.]

Defn: See Army organization, above.

ZAPATERA
Za`pa*te"ra, n. [Sp. aceituna zapatera.] (Olive trade)

Defn: A cured olive which has spoiled or is on the verge of
decomposition; loosely, an olive defective because of bruises,
wormholes, or the like.

ZAPHARA
Zaph"a*ra, n.

Defn: Zaffer.

ZAPHRENTIS
Za*phren"tis, n. Etym: [NL.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of cyathophylloid corals common in the
Paleozoic formations. It is cup-shaped with numerous septa, and with
a deep pit in one side of the cup.

ZAPOTILLA
Zap`o*til"la, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Sapodilla.

ZAPTIAH
Zap"ti*ah, n.

Defn: A Turkish policeman. [Written also zaptieh.]

ZARATHUSTRIAN; ZARATHUSTRIC
Zar`a*thus"tri*an, Zar`a*thus"tric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Zarathustra, or Zoroaster; Zoroastrian.
Tylor.

ZARATHUSTRISM
Zar`a*thus"trism, n.

Defn: See Zoroastrianism.

ZARATITE
Zar"a*tite, n. (Min.) Etym: [Named after Gen. Zarata of Spain.]

Defn: A hydrous carbonate of nickel occurring as an emerald-green
incrustation on chromite; -- called also emerald nickel.

ZAREBA
Za*re"ba, n. (Mil.)

Defn: An improvised stockade; especially, one made of thorn bushes,
etc. [Written also zareeba, and zeriba.] [Egypt]
"Ah," he moralizes, "what wonderful instinct on the part of this
little creature to surround itself with a zareba like the troops
after Osman Digma." R. Jefferies.

ZARF
Zarf, n. [Ar.] (Art)

Defn: A metallic cuplike stand used for holding a finjan.

ZARNICH
Zar"nich, n. Etym: [F., fr. Ar. az-zernikh, fr. Gr. Arsenic.] (Min.)

Defn: Native sulphide of arsenic, including sandarach, or realgar,
and orpiment.

ZARTHE; ZAERTHE
Zär"the, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European bream (Abramis vimba). [Written also zaerthe.]

ZASTRUGI
Zas*tru"gi, n. pl.; sing. -ga (#). [Russ. zastruga furrow made on the
shore by water.]

Defn: Grooves or furrows formed in snow by the action of the wind,
and running parallel with the direction of the wind. This formation
results from the erosion of transverse waves previously formed.

ZATI
Za"ti, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of macaque (Macacus pileatus) native of India and
Ceylon. It has a crown of long erect hair, and tuft of radiating
hairs on the back of the head. Called also capped macaque.

ZAUSCHNERIA
Zau*schne"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., named for M. Zauschner, a Bohemian
botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of flowering plants. Zauschneria Californica is a
suffrutescent perennial, with showy red flowers much resembling those
of the garden fuchsia.

ZAX
Zax, n.

Defn: A tool for trimming and puncturing roofing states. [Written
also sax.]

ZAYAT
Za"yat, n.

Defn: A public shed, or portico, for travelers, worshipers, etc.
[Burmah]

ZEA
Ze"a, n. Etym: [L., a kind of grain, fr. Gr. yava barley.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of large grasses of which the Indian corn (Zea Mays) is
the only species known. Its origin is not yet ascertained. See Maize.

ZEAL
Zeal, n. Etym: [F. zèle; cf. Pg. & It. zelo, Sp. zelo, celo; from L.
zelus, Gr. Yeast, Jealous.]

1. Passionate ardor in the pursuit of anything; eagerness in favor of
a person or cause; ardent and active interest; engagedness;
enthusiasm; fervor. "Ambition varnished o'er with zeal." Milton.
"Zeal, the blind conductor of the will." Dryden. "Zeal's never-dying
fire." Keble.
I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to
knowledge. Rom. x. 2.
A zeal for liberty is sometimes an eagerness to subvert with little
care what shall be established. Johnson.

2. A zealot. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ZEAL
Zeal, v. i.

Defn: To be zealous. [Obs. & R.] Bacon.

ZEALANT
Zeal"ant, n.

Defn: One who is zealous; a zealot; an enthusiast. [Obs.]
To certain zealants, all speech of pacification is odious. Bacon.

ZEALED
Zealed, a.

Defn: Full of zeal; characterized by zeal. [Obs.] "Zealed religion."
Beau. & Fl.

ZEALFUL
Zeal"ful, a.

Defn: Full of zeal. [R.] Sylvester.

ZEALLESS
Zeal"less, a.

Defn: Wanting zeal. Hammond.

ZEALOT
Zeal"ot, n. Etym: [F. zélote, L. zelotes, Gr. Zeal.]

Defn: One who is zealous; one who engages warmly in any cause, and
pursues his object with earnestness and ardor; especially, one who is
overzealous, or carried away by his zeal; one absorbed in devotion to
anything; an enthusiast; a fanatical partisan.
Zealots for the one [tradition] were in hostile array against zealots
for the other. Sir J. Stephen.
In Ayrshire, Clydesdale, Nithisdale, Annandale, every parish was
visited by these turbulent zealots. Macaulay.

ZEALOTICAL
Zea*lot"ic*al, a.

Defn: Like, or suitable to, a zealot; ardently zealous. [R.] Strype.

ZEALOTISM
Zeal"ot*ism, n.

Defn: The character or conduct of a zealot; zealotry.

ZEALOTIST
Zeal"ot*ist, n.

Defn: A zealot. [Obs.] Howell.

ZEALOTRY
Zeal"ot*ry, n.

Defn: The character and behavior of a zealot; excess of zeal;
fanatical devotion to a cause.
Enthusiasm, visionariness, seems the tendency of the German; zeal,
zealotry, of the English; fanaticism, of the French. Coleridge.

ZEALOUS
Zeal"ous, a. Etym: [LL. zelosus. See Zeal.]

1. Filled with, or characterized by, zeal; warmly engaged, or ardent,
in behalf of an object.
He may be zealous in the salvation of souls. Law.

2. Filled with religious zeal. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- Zeal"ous*ly, adv.
 -- Zeal"ous*ness, n.

ZEBEC
Ze"bec, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Xebec.

ZEBRA
Ze"bra, n. Etym: [Pg. zebra; cf. Sp. cebra; probably from a native
African name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Either one of two species of South African wild horses
remarkable for having the body white or yellowish white, and
conspicuously marked with dark brown or brackish bands.

Note: The true or mountain zebra (Equus, or Asinus, zebra) is nearly
white, and the bands which cover the body and legs are glossy black.
Its tail has a tuft of black hair at the tip. It inhabits the
mountains of Central and Southern Africa, and is noted for its
wariness and wildness, as well as for its swiftness. The second
species (Equus, or Asinus, Burchellii), known as Burchell's zebra,
and dauw, inhabits the grassy plains of South Africa, and differs
from the preceding in not having dark bands on the legs, while those
on the body are more irregular. It has a long tail, covered with long
white flowing hair. Zebra caterpillar, the larva of an American
noctuid moth (Mamestra picta). It is light yellow, with a broad black
stripe on the back and one on each side; the lateral stripes are
crossed with withe lines. It feeds on cabbages, beets, clover, and
other cultivated plants.
 -- Zebra opossum, the zebra wolf. See under Wolf.
 -- Zebra parrakeet, an Australian grass parrakeet, often kept as a
cage bird. Its upper parts are mostly pale greenish yellow,
transversely barred with brownish black crescents; the under parts,
rump, and upper tail coverts, are bright green; two central tail
feathers and the cheek patches are blue. Called also canary parrot,
scallop parrot, shell parrot, and undulated parrot.
 -- Zebra poison (Bot.), a poisonous tree (Euphorbia arborea) of the
Spurge family, found in South Africa. Its milky juice is so poisonous
that zebras have been killed by drinking water in which its branches
had been placed, and it is also used as an arrow poison. J. Smith
(Dict. Econ. Plants).
 -- Zebra shark. Same as Tiger shark, under Tiger.
 -- Zebra spider, a hunting spider.
 -- Zebra swallowtail, a very large North American swallow-tailed
butterfly (Iphiclides ajax), in which the wings are yellow, barred
with black; -- called also ajax.
 -- Zebra wolf. See under Wolf.

ZEBRAWOOD
Ze"bra*wood`, n.
(a) A kind of cabinet wood having beautiful black, brown, and whitish
stripes, the timber of a tropical American tree (Connarus
Guianensis).
(b) The wood of a small West Indian myrtaceous tree (Eugenia
fragrans).
(c) The wood of an East Indian tree of the genus Guettarda.

ZEBRINE
Ze"brine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the zebra.

ZEBRINNY
Ze*brin"ny, n.; pl. -nies.

Defn: A cross between a male horse and a female zebra.

ZEBRULA; ZEBRULE
Ze"bru*la, Ze"brule, n.

Defn: A cross between a male zebra and a female horse.

ZEBU
Ze"bu, n. [zébu; of uncertain origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bovine mammal (Ros Indicus) extensively domesticated in
India, China, the East Indies, and East Africa. It usually has short
horns, large pendulous ears, slender legs, a large dewlap, and a
large, prominent hump over the shoulders; but these characters vary
in different domestic breeds, which range in size from that of the
common ox to that of a large mastiff.

Note: Some of the varieties are used as beasts of burden, and some
fore for riding, while others are raised for their milk and flesh.
The Brahmin bull, regarded as sacred by the Hindoos, also belongs to
this species. The male is called also Indian bull, Indian ox, Madras
ox, and sacred bull.

ZEBUB
Ze"bub, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large noxious fly of Abyssinia, which like the tsetse fly, is
destructive to cattle.

ZECHIN
Ze"chin, n.

Defn: See Sequin.

ZECHSTEIN
Zech"stein`, n. Etym: [Gr., fr. zeche a mine + stein a stone.]
(Geol.)

Defn: The upper division of the Permian (Dyas) of Europe. The
prevailing rock is a magnesian limestone.

ZED
Zed, n. Etym: [F., probably through It. zeta, fr. L. zeta. See Zeta.]

Defn: The letter Z; -- called also zee, and formerly izzard. "Zed,
thou unnecessary letter!" Shak.

ZEDOARY
Zed"o*a*ry, n. Etym: [F. zédoaire, LL. zedoaria; cf. It. zedoaria,
zettovario, Pg. zedoaria, Sp. zedoaria, cedoaria; all fr. Ar. & Per.
zedw.] (Med.)

Defn: A medicinal substance obtained in the East Indian, having a
fragrant smell, and a warm, bitter, aromatic taste. It is used in
medicine as a stimulant.

Note: It is the rhizome of different species of Curcuma, esp. C.
zedoaria, and comes in short, firm pieces, externally of a wrinkled
gray, ash-colored appearance, but within of a brownish red color.
There are two kinds, round zedoary, and long zedoary.

ZEEKOE
Zee"koe, n. Etym: [D., sea cow, lake cow.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hippopotamus.

ZEEMAN EFFECT
Zee"man ef*fect". (Physics)

Defn: The widening and duplication, triplication, etc., of spectral
lines when the radiations emanate in a strong magnetic field, first
observed in 1896 by P. Zeeman, a Dutch physicist, and regarded as an
important confirmation of the electromagnetic theory of light.

ZEHNER
Zeh"ner, n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: An Austrian silver coin equal to ten kreutzers, or about five
cents.

ZEIN
Ze"in, n. Etym: [Cf. F. zé\'8bne. See Zea.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance of the nature of gluten, obtained from
the seeds of Indian corn (Zea) as a soft, yellowish, amorphous
substance. [Formerly written zeine.]

ZEITGEIST
Zeit"geist`, n. [G.; zeit time + geist spirit. See Tide, n.; Ghost,
n.]

Defn: The spirit of the time; the general intellectual and moral
state or temper characteristic of any period of time.

ZEMINDAR
Zem`in*dar", n.

Defn: Same as Zamindar.

ZEMINDARY; ZEMINDARI
Zem"in*da*ry, Zem"in*da*ri, n.

Defn: Same as Zamindary.

ZEMNI
Zem"ni, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The blind mole rat (Spalax typhlus), native of Eastern Europe
and Asia. Its eyes and ears are rudimentary, and its fur is soft and
brownish, more or less tinged with gray. It constructs extensive
burrows.

ZEMSTVO
Zem"stvo, n. [Russ., fr. zemlya land.]

Defn: In Russia, an elective local district and provincial
administrative assembly. Originally it was composed of
representatives elected by the peasantry, the householders of the
towns, and the landed proprietors. In the reign of Alexander III. the
power of the noble landowners was increased, the peasants allowed
only to elect candidates from whom the governor of the province
nominated the deputy, and all acts of the zemstvo subjected to the
approval of the governor. Theoretically the zemstvo has large powers
relating to taxation, education, public health, etc., but practically
these powers are in most cases limited to the adjustment of the state
taxation.

ZENANA
Ze*na"na, n. Etym: [Hind. zenana, zanana, fr. Per. zanana, fr. zan
woman; akin to E. queen.]

Defn: The part of a dwelling appropriated to women. [India]

ZEND
Zend, n. Etym: [See Zend-Avesta.]

Defn: Properly, the translation and exposition in the Huzvâresh, or
literary Pehlevi, language, of the Avesta, the Zoroastrian sacred
writings; as commonly used, the language (an ancient Persian dialect)
in which the Avesta is written.

ZEND-AVESTA
Zend`-A*ves"ta, n. Etym: [Properly, the Avesta, or sacred text, and
its zend, or interpretation, in a more modern and intelligible
language. W. D. Whitney.]

Defn: The sacred writings of the ancient Persian religion, attributed
to Zoroaster, but chiefly of a later date.

ZENDIK
Zen"dik, n. Etym: [Ar. zandik.]

Defn: An atheist or unbeliever; -- name given in the East to those
charged with disbelief of any revealed religion, or accused of
magical heresies.

ZENICK
Ze"nick, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South African burrowing mammal (Suricata tetradactyla),
allied to the civets. It is grayish brown, with yellowish transverse
stripes on the back. Called also suricat.

ZENIK
Ze"nik, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Zenick.

ZENITH
Ze"nith, n. Etym: [OE. senyth, OF. cenith, F. zénith, Sp. zenit,
cenit, abbrev. fr. Ar. samt-urras way of the head, vertical place;
samt way, path + al the + ras head. Cf. Azimuth.]

1. That point in the visible celestial hemisphere which is vertical
to the spectator; the point of the heavens directly overhead; --
opposed to nadir.
From morn To noon he fell, from noon to dewy eve, A summer's day; and
with the setting sun Dropped from the zenith, like a falling star.
Milton.

2. hence, figuratively, the point of culmination; the greatest
height; the height of success or prosperity.
I find my zenith doth depend upon A most auspicious star. Shak.
This dead of midnight is the noon of thought, And wisdom mounts her
zenith with the stars. Mrs. Barbauld.
It was during those civil troubles . . . this aspiring family reached
the zenith. Macaulay.
Zenith distance. (Astron.) See under Distance.
 -- Zenith sector. (Astron.) See Sector, 3.
 -- Zenith telescope (Geodesy), a telescope specially designed for
determining the latitude by means of any two stars which pass the
meridian about the same time, and at nearly equal distances from the
zenith, but on opposite sides of it. It turns both on a vertical and
a horizontal axis, is provided with a graduated vertical semicircle,
and a level for setting it to a given zenith distance, and with a
micrometer for measuring the difference of the zenith distances of
the two stars.

ZENITHAL
Ze"nith*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the zenith. "The deep zenithal blue."
Tyndall.

ZEOLITE
Ze"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. zéolithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A term now used to designate any one of a family of minerals,
hydrous silicates of alumina, with lime, soda, potash, or rarely
baryta. Here are included natrolite, stilbite, analcime, chabazite,
thomsonite, heulandite, and others. These species occur of secondary
origin in the cavities of amygdaloid, basalt, and lava, also, less
frequently, in granite and gneiss. So called because many of these
species intumesce before the blowpipe. Needle zeolite, needlestone;
natrolite.

ZEOLITIC
Ze`o*lit"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a zeolite; consisting of, or resembling, a
zeolite.

ZEOLITIFORM
Ze`o*lit"i*form, a.

Defn: Having the form of a zeolite.

ZEPHYR
Zeph"yr, n. Etym: [L. zephyrus, Gr. zéphyr.]

Defn: The west wind; poetically, any soft, gentle breeze. "Soft the
zephyr blows." Gray.
As gentle As zephyrs blowing below the violet. Shak.
Zephyr cloth, a thin kind of cassimere made in Belgium; also, a
waterproof fabric of wool.
 -- Zephyr shawl, a kind of thin, light, embroidered shawl made of
worsted and cotton.
 -- Zephyr yarn, or worsted, a fine, soft kind of yarn or worsted, --
used for knitting and embroidery.

ZEPHYRUS
Zeph"y*rus, n. Etym: [L. See Zephyr.]

Defn: The west wind, or zephyr; -- usually personified, and made the
most mild and gentle of all the sylvan deities.
Mild as when Zephyrus on Flora breathes. Milton.

ZEPPELIN
Zep`pe*lin" (tsep`pe*le"; Angl. zep"pe*lin), n.

Defn: A dirigible balloon of the rigid type, consisting of a
cylindrical trussed and covered frame supported by internal gas
cells, and provided with means of propulsion and  control. It was
first successfully used by Ferdinand Count von Zeppelin.

ZEQUIN
Ze"quin, n.

Defn: See Sequin.

ZERDA
Zer"da, n. Etym: [Of African origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The fennec.

ZERIBA
Ze*ri"ba, n. (Mil.)

Defn: Same as Zareba.

ZERO
Ze"ro, n; pl. Zeros or Zeroes. Etym: [F. zéro, from Ar. çafrun,
çifrun, empty, a cipher. Cf. Cipher.]

1. (Arith.)

Defn: A cipher; nothing; naught.

2. The point from which the graduation of a scale, as of a
thermometer, commences.

Note: Zero in the Centigrade, or Celsius thermometer, and in the
Réaumur thermometer, is at the point at which water congeals. The
zero of the Fahrenheit thermometer is fixed at the point at which the
mercury stands when immersed in a mixture of snow and common salt. In
Wedgwood's pyrometer, the zero corresponds with 1077° on the
Fahrenheit scale. See Illust. of Thermometer.

3. Fig.: The lowest point; the point of exhaustion; as, his patience
had nearly reached zero. Absolute zero. See under Absolute.
 -- Zero method (Physics), a method of comparing, or measuring,
forces, electric currents, etc., by so opposing them that the pointer
of an indicating apparatus, or the needle of a galvanometer, remains
at, or is brought to, zero, as contrasted with methods in which the
deflection is observed directly; -- called also null method.
 -- Zero point, the point indicating zero, or the commencement of a
scale or reckoning.

ZEST
Zest, n. Etym: [F. zeste, probably fr. L. schistos split, cleft,
divided, Gr. Schism.]

1. A piece of orange or lemon peel, or the aromatic oil which may be
squeezed from such peel, used to give flavor to liquor, etc.

2. Hence, something that gives or enhances a pleasant taste, or the
taste itself; an appetizer; also, keen enjoyment; relish; gusto.
Almighty Vanity! to thee they owe Their zest of pleasure, and their
balm of woe. Young.
Liberality of disposition and conduct gives the highest zest and
relish to social intercourse. Gogan.

3. The woody, thick skin inclosing the kernel of a walnut. [Obs.]

ZEST
Zest, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Zested; p. pr. & vb. n. Zesting.]

1. To cut into thin slips, as the peel of an orange, lemon, etc.; to
squeeze, as peel, over the surface of anything.

2. To give a relish or flavor to; to heighten the taste or relish of;
as, to zest wine. Gibber.

ZETA
Ze"ta, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. Zed.]

Defn: A Greek letter [z] corresponding to our z.

ZETETIC
Ze*tet"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. zététique.]

Defn: Seeking; proceeding by inquiry. Zetetic method (Math.), the
method used for finding the value of unknown quantities by direct
search, in investigation, or in the solution of problems. [R.]
Hutton.

ZETETIC
Ze*tet"ic, n.

Defn: A seeker; -- a name adopted by some of the Pyrrhonists.

ZETETICS
Ze*tet"ics, n. Etym: [See Zetetic, a.] (Math.)

Defn: A branch of algebra which relates to the direct search for
unknown quantities. [R.]

ZEUGLODON
Zeu"glo*don, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of extinct Eocene whales, remains of which have been
found in the Gulf States. The species had very long and slender
bodies and broad serrated teeth. See Phocodontia.

ZEUGLODONT
Zeu"glo*dont, (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of Zeuglodonta.

ZEUGLODONTA
Zeu`glo*don"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Phocodontia.

ZEUGMA
Zeug"ma, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. Yoke.] (Gram.)

Defn: A figure by which an adjective or verb, which agrees with a
nearer word, is, by way of supplement, referred also to another more
remote; as, "hic illius arma, hic currus fuit;" where fuit, which
agrees directly with currus, is referred also to arma.

ZEUGMATIC
Zeug*mat"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to zeugma; characterized by zeugma.

ZEUGOBRANCHIATA
Zeu`go*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Zygobranchia.

ZEUS
Zeus, n. (Gr. Myth.)

Defn: The chief deity of the Greeks, and ruler of the upper world
(cf. Hades). He was identified with Jupiter.

ZEUZERIAN
Zeu*ze"ri*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of a group of bombycid moths of which the genus Zeuzera
is the type. Some of these moths are of large size. The goat moth is
an example.

ZEYLANITE
Zey"lan*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Ceylanite.

ZIBET; ZIBETH
Zib"et, Zib"eth, n. Etym: [Cf. It. zibetto. See Civet.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carnivorous mammal (Viverra zibetha) closely allied to the
civet, from which it differs in having the spots on the body less
distinct, the throat whiter, and the black rings on the tail more
numerous.

Note: It inhabits India, Southern China, and the East Indies. It
yields a perfume similar to that of the civet. It is often
domesticated by the natives, and then serves the same purposes as the
domestic cat. Called also Asiatic, or Indian, civet.

ZIEGA
Zie"ga, n.

Defn: Curd produced from milk by adding acetic acid, after rennet has
ceased to cause coagulation. Brande & C.

ZIETRISIKITE
Zie`tri*si"kite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral wax, vert similar to ozocerite. It is found at
Zietrisika, Moldavia, whence its name.

ZIF
Zif, n. Etym: [Heb. ziv.]

Defn: The second month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year,
corresponding to our May.

ZIGGER; ZIGHYR
Zig"ger, Zig"hyr, v. i. (Mining)

Defn: Same as Sicker. [Prov. Eng.] Raymond.

ZIGZAG
Zig"zag`, n. Etym: [F. zigzag, G. zickzack, from zacke, zacken, a
dentil, tooth. Cf. Tack a small nail.]

1. Something that has short turns or angles.
The fanatics going straight forward and openly, the politicians by
the surer mode of zigzag. Burke.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A molding running in a zigzag line; a chevron, or series of
chevrons. See Illust. of Chevron, 3.

3. (Fort.)

Defn: See Boyau.

ZIGZAG
Zig"zag`, a.

Defn: Having short, sharp turns; running this way and that in an
onward course.

ZIGZAG
Zig"zag`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Zigzagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Zigzagging.]

Defn: To form with short turns.

ZIGZAG
Zig"zag`, v. i.

Defn: To move in a zigzag manner; also, to have a zigzag shape. R.
Browning.

ZIGZAGGERY
Zig"zag`ger*y, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being zigzag; crookedness. [R.]
The . . . zigzaggery of my father's approaches. Sterne.

ZIGZAGGY
Zig"zag`gy, a.

Defn: Having sharp turns. Barham.

ZIKKURAT
Zik"ku*rat, n.

Defn: A temple tower of the Babylonians or Assyrians, consisting of a
lofty pyramidal structure, built in successive stages, with outside
staircases, and a shrine at the top.

ZILLA
Zil"la, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A low, thorny, suffrutescent, crucifeous plant (Zilla
myagroides) found in the deserts of Egypt. Its leaves are boiled in
water, and eaten, by the Arabs.

ZILLAH
Zil"lah, n. Etym: [Ar. zila.]

Defn: A district or local division, as of a province. [India]

ZIMB
Zimb, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, venomous, two-winged fly, native of Abyssinia. It is
allied to the tsetse fly, and, like the latter, is destructive to
cattle.

ZIMENT-WATER
Zim"ent-wa`ter, n. Etym: [G. cement-wasser. See Cement.]

Defn: A kind of water found in copper mines; water impregnated with
copper.

ZIMOCCA
Zi*moc"ca, n.

Defn: A sponge (Euspongia zimocca) of flat form and fine quality,
from the Adriatic, about the Greek islands, and the coast of Barbary.

ZINC
Zinc, n. Etym: [G. zinc, probably akin to zinn tin: cf. F. zinc, from
the German. Cf. Tin.] (Chem.)

Defn: An abundant element of the magnesium-cadmium group, extracted
principally from the minerals zinc blende, smithsonite, calamine, and
franklinite, as an easily fusible bluish white metal, which is
malleable, especially when heated. It is not easily oxidized in moist
air, and hence is used for sheeting, coating galvanized iron, etc. It
is used in making brass, britannia, and other alloys, and is also
largely consumed in electric batteries. Symbol Zn. Atomic weight 64.9
[Formerly written also zink.] Butter of zinc (Old Chem.), zinc
chloride, ZnCl2, a deliquescent white waxy or oily substance.
 -- Oxide of zinc. (Chem.) See Zinc oxide, below.
 -- Zinc amine (Chem.), a white amorphous substance, Zn(NH2)2,
obtained by the action of ammonia on zinc ethyl; -- called also zinc
amide.
 -- Zinc amyle (Chem.), a colorless, transparent liquid, composed of
zinc and amyle, which, when exposed to the atmosphere, emits fumes,
and absorbs oxygen with rapidity.
 -- Zinc blende Etym: [cf. G. zinkblende] (Min.), a native zinc
sulphide. See Blende, n. (a) -- Zinc bloom Etym: [cf. G. zinkblumen
flowers of zinc, oxide of zinc] (Min.), hydrous carbonate of zinc,
usually occurring in white earthy incrustations; -- called also
hydrozincite.
 -- Zinc ethyl (Chem.), a colorless, transparent, poisonous liquid,
composed of zinc and ethyl, which takes fire spontaneously on
exposure to the atmosphere.
 -- Zinc green, a green pigment consisting of zinc and cobalt oxides;
-- called also Rinmann's green.
 -- Zinc methyl (Chem.), a colorless mobile liquid Zn(CH3)2, produced
by the action of methyl iodide on a zinc sodium alloy. It has a
disagreeable odor, and is spontaneously inflammable in the air. It
has been of great importance in the synthesis of organic compounds,
and is the type of a large series of similar compounds, as zinc
ethyl, zinc amyle, etc.
 -- Zinc oxide (Chem.), the oxide of zinc, ZnO, forming a light
fluffy sublimate when zinc is burned; -- called also flowers of zinc,
philosopher's wool, nihil album, etc. The impure oxide produced by
burning the metal, roasting its ores, or in melting brass, is called
also pompholyx, and tutty.
 -- Zinc spinel (Min.), a mineral, related to spinel, consisting
essentially of the oxides of zinc and aluminium; gahnite.
 -- Zinc vitriol (Chem.), zinc sulphate. See White vitriol, under
Vitriol.
 -- Zinc white, a white powder consisting of zinc oxide, used as a
pigment.

ZINC
Zinc, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Zincked or Zinced (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Zincking or Zincing (.]

Defn: To coat with zinc; to galvanize.

ZINCANE
Zinc"ane, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Zinc chloride. [Obs.]

ZINCIC
Zinc"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, zinc; zincous.

ZINCIDE
Zinc"ide, n.

Defn: A binary compound of zinc. [R.]

ZINCIFEROUS
Zinc*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Zinc + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing or affording zinc.

ZINCIFICATION
Zinc`i*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of applying zinc; the condition of being
zincified, or covered with zinc; galvanization.

ZINCIFY
Zinc"i*fy, v. t. Etym: [Zinc + -fy.] (Metal.)

Defn: To coat or impregnate with zinc.

ZINCITE
Zinc"ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Native zinc oxide; a brittle, translucent mineral, of an
orange-red color; -- called also red zinc ore, and red oxide of zinc.

ZINCKING; ZINCING
Zinck"ing, or Zinc"ing, n. (Metal.)

Defn: The act or process of applying zinc; galvanization.

ZINCKY
Zinck"y

Defn: , Pertaining to zinc, or having its appearance. [Written also
zinky.]

ZINCO-
Zin"co-.

Defn: A combining form from zinc; in chemistry, designating zinc as
an element of certain double compounds. Also used adjectively.

ZINCODE
Zinc"ode, n. Etym: [Zinc + -ode, as in electrode.] (Elec.)

Defn: The positive electrode of an electrolytic cell; anode. [R.]
Miller.

ZINCOGRAPH
Zin"co*graph, n.

Defn: A zinc plate prepared for printing by zincography; also, a
print from such a plate.

ZINCOGRAPHER
Zin*cog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: Am engraver on zinc.

ZINCOGRAPHIC; ZINCOGRAPHICAL
Zin`co*graph"ic, Zin`co*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to zincography; as, zincographic processes.

ZINCOGRAPHY
Zin*cog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Zinco- + -graphy.]

Defn: The art or process of engraving or etching on zinc, in which
the design is left in relief in the style of a wood cut, the rest of
the ground being eaten away by acid.

ZINCOID
Zinc"oid, a. Etym: [Zinc + -oid.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, zinc; -- said of the electricity
of the zincous plate in connection with a copper plate in a voltaic
circle; also, designating the positive pole. [Obs.]

ZINCO-POLAR
Zin`co-po"lar, a. Etym: [Zinco- + polar.] (Elec.)

Defn: Electrically polarized like the surface of the zinc presented
to the acid in a battery, which has zincous affinity. [Obs.]

ZINCOUS
Zinc"ous, a.

1. (Chem.)
(a) Of, pertaining to, or containing, zinc; zincic; as, zincous
salts.
(b) Hence, formerly, basic, basylous, as opposed to chlorous.

2. (Physics)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the positive pole of a galvanic battery;
electro-positive.

ZINGARO
Zin"ga*ro, n.; pl. Zingari. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A gypsy.

ZINGEL
Zing"el, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, edible, freshwater European perch (Aspro zingel),
having a round, elongated body and prominent snout.

ZINGIBERACEOUS
Zin`gi*ber*a"ceous, a. Etym: [L. zingiber ginger. See Ginger.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to ginger, or to a tribe (Zingibereæ) of
endogenous plants of the order Scitamineæ. See Scitamineous.

ZINK
Zink, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Zinc. [Obs.]

ZINKENITE
Zink"en*ite, n. Etym: [From Zinken, director at one time of the
Hanoverian mines.] (Min.)

Defn: A steel-gray metallic mineral, a sulphide of antimony and lead.

ZINKY
Zink"y, a.

Defn: See Zincky. Kirwan.

ZINNIA
Zin"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL. So called after Professor Zinn, of
Göttingen.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the composite genus Zinnia, Mexican herbs with
opposite leaves and large gay-colored blossoms. Zinnia elegans is the
commonest species in cultivation.

ZINNWALDITE
Zinn"wald*ite, n. Etym: [So called after Zinnwald, in Bohemia, where
it occurs.] (Min.)

Defn: A kind of mica containing lithium, often associated with tin
ore.

ZINSANG
Zin"sang, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The delundung.

ZINZIBERACEOUS
Zin`zi*ber*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Zingiberaceous.

ZION
Zi"on, n. Etym: [Heb. tsiy, originally, a hill.]

1. (Jewish Antiq.)

Defn: A hill in Jerusalem, which, after the capture of that city by
the Israelites, became the royal residence of David and his
successors.

2. Hence, the theocracy, or church of God.

3. The heavenly Jerusalem; heaven.

ZIONISM
Zi"on*ism, n.  [Zion + -ism.]

Defn: Among the Jews, a theory, plan, or movement for colonizing
their own race in Palestine, the land of Zion, or, if that is
impracticable, elsewhere, either for religious or nationalizing
purposes; -- called also Zion movement. --Zi"on*ist, n. --
Zi`on*is"tic (#), a.

ZIP
Zip, n. [Imitative.]

Defn: A hissing or sibilant sound such as that made by a flying
bullet.

ZIP
Zip, v. i.

Defn: To make, or move with, such a sound.

ZIPHIOID
Ziph"i*oid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Xiphioid.

ZIRCO-
Zir"co-. (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) designating zirconium
as an element of certain double compounds; zircono-; as in
zircofluoric acid, sodium zircofluoride.

ZIRCOFLUORIDE
Zir`co*flu"or*ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A double fluoride of zirconium and hydrogen, or some other
positive element or radical; as, zircofluoride of sodium.

ZIRCON
Zir"con, n. Etym: [F., the same word as jargon. See Jargon a variety
of zircon.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, usually of a brown
or gray color. It consists of silica and zirconia. A red variety,
used as a gem, is called hyacinth. Colorless, pale-yellow or smoky-
brown varieties from Ceylon are called jargon. Zircon syenite, a
coarse-grained syenite containing zircon crystals and often also
elæolite. It is largely developed in Southern Norway.

ZIRCONA
Zir"co*na, n. Etym: [NL.] (Chem.)

Defn: Zirconia.

ZIRCONATE
Zir"con*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of zirconic acid.

ZIRCONIA
Zir*co"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Chem.)

Defn: The oxide of zirconium, obtained as a white powder, and
possessing both acid and basic properties. On account of its
infusibility, and brilliant luminosity when incandescent, it is used
as an ingredient of sticks for the Drummomd light.

ZIRCONIC
Zir*con"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, zirconium; as,
zirconic oxide; zirconic compounds. Zirconic acid, an acid of
zirconium analogous to carbonic and silicic acids, known only in its
salts.

ZIRCONIUM
Zir*co"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare element of the carbon-silicon group, intermediate
between the metals and nonmetals, obtained from the mineral zircon as
a dark sooty powder, or as a gray metallic crystalline substance.
Symbol Zr. Atomic weight, 90.4.

ZIRCON LIGHT
Zir"con light. (Physics)

Defn: A light, similar to the calcium light, produced by incandescent
zirconia.

ZIRCONO
Zir"co*no.

Defn: See Zirco-.

ZIRCONOID
Zir"con*oid, n. Etym: [Zircon + oid.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: A double eight-sided pyramid, a form common with tetragonal
crystals; -- so called because this form often occurs in crystals of
zircon.

ZITHER
Zith"er, n. Etym: [G. zither. See Cittern.] (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument of music used in Austria and Germany. It has from
thirty to forty wires strung across a shallow sounding-board, which
lies horizontally on a table before the performer, who uses both
hands in playing on it.

Note: [Not to be confounded with the old lute-shaped cittern, or
cithern.]

ZITTERN
Zit"tern, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Cittern.

ZIZANIA
Zi*za"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL., from L. zizanium darnel, cockle, Gr.
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of grasses including Indian rice. See Indian rice,
under Rice.

ZIZEL
Ziz"el, n. Etym: [G. ziesel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The suslik. [Written also zisel.]

ZIZITH
Zi"zith, n. pl. [Heb. tsitsith.]

Defn: The tassels of twisted cords or threads on the corners of the
upper garment worn by strict Jews. The Hebrew for this word is
translated in both the Authorized and Revised Versions (Deut. xxii.
12) by the word "fringes."

ZOANTHACEA
Zo`an*tha"ce*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of Actinaria, including Zoanthus and allied genera,
which are permanently attached by their bases.

ZOANTHARIA
Zo`an*tha"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Anthozoa.

ZOANTHARIAN
Zo`an*tha"ri*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Zoantharia.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Anthozoa.

ZOANTHODEME
Zo*an"tho*deme, n. Etym: [See Zoantharia, and Deme.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The zooids of a compound anthozoan, collectively.

ZOANTHOID
Zo*an"thoid, a. Etym: [See Zoantharia, and -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Zoanthacea.

ZOANTHROPY
Zo*an"thro*py, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A kind of monomania in which the patient believes himself
transformed into one of the lower animals.

ZOANTHUS
Zo*an"thus, n. Etym: [NL. See Zoantharia.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Actinaria, including numerous species, found mostly
in tropical seas. The zooids or polyps resemble small, elongated
actinias united together at their bases by fleshy stolons, and thus
forming extensive groups. The tentacles are small and bright colored.

ZOBO
Zo"bo, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of domestic cattle reared in Asia for its flesh and
milk. It is supposed to be a hybrid between the zebu and the yak.

ZOCCO; ZOCCOLO
Zoc"co, Zoc"co*lo, n. Etym: [It. fr. L. socculus. See Socle, and cf.
Zacco.] (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Socle.

ZOCLE
Zo"cle, n. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Socle.

ZODIAC
Zo"di*ac, n. Etym: [F. zodiaque (cf. It. zodiaco), fr. L. zodiacus,
Gr.

1. (Astron.)
(a) An imaginary belt in the heavens, 16º or 18º broad, in the middle
of which is the ecliptic, or sun's path. It comprises the twelve
constellations, which one constituted, and from which were named, the
twelve signs of the zodiac.
(b) A figure representing the signs, symbols, and constellations of
the zodiac.

2. A girdle; a belt. [Poetic & R.]
By his side, As in a glistering zodiac, hung the sword. Milton.

ZODIACAL
Zo*di"a*cal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zodiacal.] (Astron.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the zodiac; situated within the zodiac; as,
the zodiacal planets. Zodiacal light, a luminous tract of the sky, of
an elongated, triangular figure, lying near the ecliptic, its base
being on the horizon, and its apex at varying altitudes. It is to be
seen only in the evening, after twilight, and in the morning before
dawn. It is supposed to be due to sunlight reflected from multitudes
of meteoroids revolving about the sun nearly in the plane of the
ecliptic.

ZOEA
Zo"ë*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar larval stage of certain decapod Crustacea,
especially of crabs and certain Anomura. [Written also zoæa.]

Note: In this stage the anterior part of the body is relatively
large, and usually bears three or four long spines. The years are
conspicuous, and the antennæ and jaws are long, fringed organs used
in swimming. The thoracic legs are undeveloped or rudimentary, the
abdomen long, slender, and often without appendages. The zoëa, after
casting its shell, changes to a megalops.

ZOETROPE
Zo"e*trope, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An optical toy, in which figures made to revolve on the inside
of a cylinder, and viewed through slits in its circumference, appear
like a single figure passing through a series of natural motions as
if animated or mechanically moved.

ZOHAR
Zo"har, n. Etym: [Heb. z candor, splendor.]

Defn: A Jewish cabalistic book attributed by tradition to Rabbi Simon
ben Yochi, who lived about the end of the 1st century, a. d. Modern
critics believe it to be a compilation of the 13th century. Encyc.
Brit.

ZOIC
Zo"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to animals, or animal life.

ZOIDE
Zo"ide, n. (Biol.)

Defn: See Meride.

ZOILEAN
Zo*il"e*an, a.

Defn: Having the characteristic of Zoilus, a bitter, envious, unjust
critic, who lived about 270 years before Christ.

ZOILISM
Zo"i*lism, n.

Defn: Resemblance to Zoilus in style or manner; carping criticism;
detraction.
Bring candid eyes the perusal of men's works, and let not Zoilism or
detraction blast well-intended labors. Sir T. Browne.

ZOISITE
Zois"ite, n. Etym: [After its discoverer, Von Zois, an Austrian
mineralogist.] (Min.)

Defn: A grayish or whitish mineral occurring in orthorhombic,
prismatic crystals, also in columnar masses. It is a silicate of
alumina and lime, and is allied to epidote.

ZOISM
Zo"ism, n. [Gr. zwh` life + -ism.]

1. Reverence for animal life or belief in animal powers and
influences, as among savages.

2.  (Biol.) A doctrine, now discarded, that the phenomena of life are
due to a peculiar vital principle; the theory of vital force.

ZOKOR
Zo"kor, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Asiatic burrowing rodent (Siphneus aspalax) resembling the
mole rat. It is native of the Altai Mountains.

ZOLAESQUE
Zo`la*esque", a.

Defn: In the style of Zola (see Zolaism).

ZOLAISM
Zo"la*ism, n.

Defn: The literary theories and practices of the French novelist
Emile Zola (1840-1902); naturalism, esp. in a derogatory sense. --
Zo"la*ist, n. -- Zo`la*is"tic (#), a. -- Zo"la*ize (#), v.

ZOLLNER'S LINES
Zöll"ner's lines`. [So called after Friedrich Zöllner, a German
physicist.]

Defn: Parallel lines that are made to appear convergent or divergent
by means of oblique intersections.

ZOLLVEREIN
Zoll"ve*rein`, n. Etym: [G., from zoll duty + verein union.]

Defn: Literally, a customs union; specifically, applied to the
several customs unions successively formed under the leadership of
Prussia among certain German states for establishing liberty of
commerce among themselves and common tariff on imports, exports, and
transit.

Note: In 1834 a zollverein was established which included most of the
principal German states except Austria. This was terminated by the
events of 1866, and in 1867 a more closely organized union was
formed, the administration of which was ultimately merged in that of
the new German empire, with which it nearly corresponds
territorially.

ZOMBORUK
Zom"bo*ruk, n. (Mil.)

Defn: See Zumbooruk.

ZONA
Zo"na, n.; pl. Zonæ. Etym: [L., a girdle. See Zone.]

Defn: A zone or band; a layer. Zona pellucida. Etym: [NL.] (Biol.)
(a) The outer transparent layer, or envelope, of the ovum. It is a
more or less elastic membrane with radiating striæ, and corresponds
to the cell wall of an ordinary cell. See Ovum, and Illust. of
Microscope. (b) The zona radiata.
 -- Zona radiata Etym: [NL.] (Biol.), a radiately striated membrane
situated next the yolk of an ovum, or separated from it by a very
delicate membrane only.

ZONAL
Zon"al, a. Etym: [L. zonalis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a zone; having the form of a zone or zones.
Zonal equation (Crystallog.), the mathematical relation which belongs
to all the planes of a zone, and expresses their common position with
reference to the axes.
 -- Zonal structure (Crystallog.), a structure characterized by the
arrangements of color, inclusions, etc., of a crystal in parallel or
concentric layers, which usually follow the outline of the crystal,
and mark the changes that have taken place during its growth.
 -- Zonal symmetry. (Biol.) See the Note under Symmetry.

ZONAR
Zo"nar, n. Etym: [Mod. Gr. Zone.]

Defn: A belt or girdle which the Christians and Jews of the Levant
were obliged to wear to distinguish them from Mohammedans. [Written
also zonnar.]

ZONARIA
Zo*na"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Mammalia in which the placenta is zonelike.

ZONATE
Zon"ate, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Divided by parallel planes; as, zonate tetraspores, found in
certain red algæ.

ZONE
Zone, n. Etym: [F. zone, L. zona, Gr. j to gird, Zend yah.]

1. A girdle; a cincture. [Poetic]
An embroidered zone surrounds her waist. Dryden.
Loose were her tresses seen, her zone unbound. Collins.

2. (Geog.)

Defn: One of the five great divisions of the earth, with respect to
latitude and temperature.

Note: The zones are five: the torrid zone, extending from tropic to
tropic 46º 56min, or 23º 28min on each side of the equator; two
temperate or variable zones, situated between the tropics and the
polar circles; and two frigid zones, situated between the polar
circles and the poles.
Commerce . . . defies every wind, outrides every tempest, and
invades. Bancroft.

3. (Math.)

Defn: The portion of the surface of a sphere included between two
parallel planes; the portion of a surface of revolution included
between two planes perpendicular to the axis. Davies & Peck (Math.
Dict.)

4. (Nat. Hist.)
(a) A band or stripe extending around a body.
(b) A band or area of growth encircling anything; as, a zone of
evergreens on a mountain; the zone of animal or vegetable life in the
ocean around an island or a continent; the Alpine zone, that part of
mountains which is above the limit of tree growth.

5. (Crystallog.)

Defn: A series of planes having mutually parallel intersections.

6. Circuit; circumference. [R.] Milton. Abyssal zone. (Phys. Geog.)
See under Abyssal.
 -- Zone axis (Crystallog.), a straight line passing through the
center of a crystal, to which all the planes of a given zone are
parallel.

ZONE
Zone, v. t.

Defn: To girdle; to encircle. [R.] Keats.

ZONED
Zoned, a.

1. Wearing a zone, or girdle. Pope.

2. Having zones, or concentric bands; striped.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Zonate.

ZONELESS
Zone"less, a.

Defn: Not having a zone; ungirded.
The reeling goddess with the zoneless waist. Cowper.
In careless folds, loose fell her zoneless vest. Mason.

ZONNAR
Zon"nar, n.

Defn: See Zonar.

ZONULAR
Zon"u*lar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a zone; zone-shaped. "The zonular type of a
placenta." Dana.

ZONULE
Zon"ule, n.

Defn: A little zone, or girdle.

ZONULET
Zon"u*let, n.

Defn: A zonule. Herrick.

ZONURE
Zon"ure, n. Etym: [Zone + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several of South African lizards of the genus
Zonura, common in rocky situations.

ZOO-; ZOOE-
Zo"ö-.

Defn: A combining form from Gr. zwo^,n an animal, as in zoögenic,
zoölogy, etc.

ZOOCHEMICAL; ZOOECHEMICAL
Zo`ö*chem"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to zoöchemistry.

ZOOCHEMISTRY; ZOOECHEMISTRY
Zo`ö*chem"is*try, n. Etym: [Zoö- + chemistry.]

Defn: Animal chemistry; particularly, the description of the chemical
compounds entering into the composition of the animal body, in
distinction from biochemistry.

ZOOCHEMY; ZOOECHEMY
Zo*öch"e*my, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr.

Defn: Animal chemistry; zoöchemistry. Dunglison.

ZOOCHLORELLA; ZOOECHLORELLA
Zo`ö*chlo*rel"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the small green granulelike bodies found in the interior
of certain stentors, hydras, and other invertebrates.

ZOOCYST; ZOOECYST
Zo"ö*cyst, n. Etym: [Zoö- + cyst.] (Biol.)

Defn: A cyst formed by certain Protozoa and unicellular plants which
the contents divide into a large number of granules, each of which
becomes a germ.

ZOOCYTIUM; ZOOECYTIUM
Zo`ö*cy"ti*um, n.; pl. Zoöcytia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common support, often branched, of certain species of
social Infusoria.

ZOODENDRIUM; ZOOEDENDRIUM
Zo`ö*den"dri*um, n.; pl. Zoödendria. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The branched, and often treelike, support of the colonies of
certain Infusoria.

ZOOECIUM
Zo*oe"ci*um, n.; pl. Zooecia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the cells or tubes which inclose the feeling zooids of
Bryozoa. See Illust. of Sea Moss.

ZOOERYTHRINE; ZOOEERYTHRINE
Zo`ö*e*ryth"rine, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar organic red coloring matter found in the feathers of
various birds.

ZOOGAMOUS; ZOOEGAMOUS
Zo*ög"a*mous, a. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining zoögamy.

ZOOGAMY; ZOOEGAMY
Zo*ög"a*my, n. (Biol.)

Defn: The sexual reproduction of animals.

ZOOGENIC; ZOOEGENIC
Zo`ö*gen"ic, a. Etym: [Zoö- + -gen + -ic: cf. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to zoögeny, animal production.

ZOOGENY; ZOOEGENY; ZOOGONY; ZOOEGONY
Zo*ög"e*ny, Zo*ög"o*ny, n. Etym: [Zoö- + root of Gr.

Defn: The doctrine of the formation of living beings.

ZOOGEOGRAPHICAL; ZOOEGEOGRAPHICAL
Zo`ö*ge`o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to zoögraphy.

ZOOGEOGRAPHY; ZOOEGEOGRAPHY
Zo`ö*ge*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Zoö- + geography.]

Defn: The study or description of the geographical distribution of
animals.

ZOOGLOEA; ZOOEGLOEA
Zo`ö*gloe"a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A colony or mass of bacteria imbedded in a viscous gelatinous
substance. The zoögloea is characteristic of a transitory stage
through which rapidly multiplying bacteria pass in the course of
their evolution. Also used adjectively.

ZOOGRAPHER; ZOOEGRAPHER
Zo*ög"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who describes animals, their forms and habits.

ZOOGRAPHIC; ZOOEGRAPHIC; ZOOGRAPHICAL; ZOOEGRAPHICAL
Zo`ö*graph"ic, Zo`ö*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zoographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the description of animals.

ZOOGRAPHIST; ZOOEGRAPHIST
Zo*ög"ra*phist, n.

Defn: A zoögrapher.

ZOOGRAPHY; ZOOEGRAPHY
Zo*ög"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Zoö- + -graphy: cf. F. zoographie.]

Defn: A description of animals, their forms and habits.

ZOOID
Zo"oid, a. Etym: [Zoö- + -oid.] (Biol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, an animal.

ZOOID
Zo"oid, n.

1. (Biol.)

Defn: An organic body or cell having locomotion, as a spermatic cell
or spermatozooid.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) An animal in one of its inferior stages of development, as one of
the intermediate forms in alternate generation.
(b) One of the individual animals in a composite group, as of
Anthozoa, Hydroidea, and Bryozoa; -- sometimes restricted to those
individuals in which the mouth and digestive organs are not
developed.

ZOOIDAL
Zo*oid"al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a zooid; as, a zooidal form.

ZOOLATRY; ZOOELATRY
Zo*öl"a*try, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr.

Defn: The worship of animals.

ZOOLOGER; ZOOELOGER
Zo*öl"o*ger, n.

Defn: A zoölogist. Boyle.

ZOOLOGICAL; ZOOELOGICAL
Zo`ö*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zoologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to zoölogy, or the science of animals.

ZOOLOGICALLY; ZOOELOGICALLY
Zo`ö*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a zoölogical manner; according to the principles of zoölogy.

ZOOLOGIST; ZOOELOGIST
Zo*öl"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. zoologiste.]

Defn: One who is well versed in zoölogy.

ZOOLOGIZE
Zo*öl"o*gize, v. i.

Defn: To study zoölogy; esp., to collect animals for study.

ZOOLOGY; ZOOELOGY
Zo*öl"o*gy, n.; pl. Zoölogies. Etym: [Zoö- + -logy: cf. F. zoologie.
See Zodiac.]

1. That part of biology which relates to the animal kingdom,
including the structure, embryology, evolution, classification,
habits, and distribution of all animals, both living and extinct.

2. A treatise on this science.

ZOOMELANIN; ZOOEMELANIN
Zo`ö*mel"a*nin, n. Etym: [Zoö- + melanin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A pigment giving the black color to the feathers of many birds.

ZOOMORPHIC; ZOOEMORPHIC
Zo`ö*mor"phic, a. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to zoömorphism.

ZOOMORPHISM; ZOOEMORPHISM
Zo`ö*mor"phism, n.

1. The transformation of men into beasts. [R.] Smart.

2. The quality of representing or using animal forms; as, zoömorphism
in ornament.

3. The representation of God, or of gods, in the form, or with the
attributes, of the lower animals.
To avoid the error of anthropomorphism, we fall into the vastly
greater, and more absurd, error of zoömorphism. Mivart.

ZOON; ZOOEN
Zo"ön, n.; pl. Zoa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) An animal which is the sole product of a single egg; -- opposed
to zooid. H. Spencer.
(b) Any one of the perfectly developed individuals of a compound
animal.

ZOONIC; ZOOENIC
Zo*ön"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. zoonique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to animals; obtained from animal substances.

ZOONITE; ZOOENITE
Zo"ö*nite, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) One of the segments of the body of an articulate animal.
(b) One of the theoretic transverse divisions of any segmented
animal.

ZOONOMY; ZOOENOMY
Zo*ön"o*my, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr. zoonomie.]

Defn: The laws animal life, or the science which treats of the
phenomena of animal life, their causes and relations.

ZOONULE; ZOOENULE
Zo"ö*nule, n. Etym: [Dim. fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Zoönite.

ZOOPATHOLOGY; ZOOEPATHOLOGY
Zo`ö*pa*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Zoö- + pathology.]

Defn: Animal pathology.

ZOOPHAGA; ZOOEPHAGA
Zo*öph"a*ga, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An artificial group comprising various carnivorous and
insectivorous animals.

ZOOPHAGAN; ZOOEPHAGAN
Zo*öph"a*gan, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A animal that feeds on animal food.

ZOOPHAGOUS; ZOOEPHAGOUS
Zo*öph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Feeding on animals.

Note: This is a more general term than either sarcophagous or
carnivorous.

ZOOPHILIST; ZOOEPHILIST
Zo*öph"i*list, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr.

Defn: A lover of animals. Southey.

ZOOPHILY; ZOOEPHILY
Zo*öph"i*ly, n.

Defn: Love of animals.

ZOOPHITE; ZOOEPHITE
Zo"ö*phite, n.

Defn: A zoöphyte. [R.]

ZOOPHORIC; ZOOEPHORIC
Zo`ö*phor"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. zoophorique.]

Defn: Bearing or supporting the figure of an animal; as, a zoöphoric
column.

ZOOPHOROUS; ZOOEPHOROUS
Zo*öph"o*rous, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Zoöphoric.] (Anc. Arch.)

Defn: The part between the architrave and cornice; the frieze; -- so
called from the figures of animals carved upon it.

ZOOPHYTA; ZOOEPHYTA
Zo*öph"y*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive artificial and heterogeneous group of animals,
formerly adopted by many zoölogists. It included the coelenterates,
echinoderms, sponges, Bryozoa, Protozoa, etc.

Note: Sometimes the name is restricted to the Coelentera, or to the
Anthozoa.

ZOOPHYTE; ZOOEPHYTE
Zo"ö*phyte, n. Etym: [F. zoophyte, Gr. Zodiac, and Be, v. i.] (Zoöl.)
(a) Any one of numerous species of invertebrate animals which more or
less resemble plants in appearance, or mode of growth, as the corals,
gorgonians, sea anemones, hydroids, bryozoans, sponges, etc.,
especially any of those that form compound colonies having a branched
or treelike form, as many corals and hydroids.
(b) Any one of the Zoöphyta.

ZOOPHYTIC; ZOOEPHYTIC; ZOOPHYTICAL; ZOOEPHYTICAL
Zo`ö*phyt"ic, Zo`ö*phyt"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zoophytique.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to zoöphytes.

ZOOPHYTOID; ZOOEPHYTOID
Zo*öph"y*toid, a. Etym: [Zoöphyte + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a zoöphyte.

ZOOPHYTOLOGICAL; ZOOEPHYTOLOGICAL
Zo`ö*phyt`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zoophytologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to zoöphytology; as, zoöphytological
observations.

ZOOPHYTOLOGY; ZOOEPHYTOLOGY
Zo*öph`y*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Zoöphyte + -logy: cf. F. zoophytologie.]

Defn: The natural history zoöphytes.

ZOOPRAXISCOPE; ZOOEPRAXISCOPE
Zo`ö*prax"i*scope, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr. -scope.]

Defn: An instrument similar to, or the same as, the, the
phenakistoscope, by means of which pictures projected upon a screen
are made to exhibit the natural movements of animals, and the like.

ZOOPSYCHOLOGY; ZOOEPSYCHOLOGY
Zo`ö*psy*chol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Zoö- + psychology.]

Defn: Animal psychology.

ZOOSPERM; ZOOESPERM
Zo"ö*sperm, n. Etym: [Zoö- + sperm.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of the spermatic particles; spermatozoid.

ZOOSPORANGIUM; ZOOESPORANGIUM
Zo`ö*spo*ran"gi*um, n.; pl. -sporangia. Etym: [NL. See Zoö-, and
Sporangium.] (Bot.)

Defn: A spore, or conceptacle containing zoöspores.

ZOOSPORE; ZOOESPORE
Zo"ö*spore, n. Etym: [Zoö- + spore.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A spore provided with one or more slender cilia, by the
vibration of which it swims in the water. Zoöspores are produced by
many green, and by some olive-brown, algæ. In certain species they
are divided into the larger macrozoöspores and the smaller
microzoöspores. Called also sporozoid, and swarmspore.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Swarmspore.

ZOOSPORIC; ZOOESPORIC
Zo`ö*spor"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to zoöspores; of the nature of zoöspores.

ZOOTIC; ZOOETIC
Zo*öt"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Containing the remains of organized bodies; -- said of rock or
soil.

ZOOTOMICAL; ZOOETOMICAL
Zo`ö*tom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zootomique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to zoötomy.

ZOOTOMIST; ZOOETOMIST
Zo*öt"o*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. zootomiste.]

Defn: One who dissects animals, or is skilled in zoötomy.

ZOOTOMY; ZOOETOMY
Zo*öt"o*my, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr. zootomie.]

Defn: The dissection or the anatomy of animals; -- distinguished from
androtomy.

ZOOTROPHIC; ZOOETROPHIC
Zo`ö*troph"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Zoö-, and Trophic.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the nourishment of animals.

ZOOZOO
Zoo"zoo`, n. Etym: [Of imitative origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wood pigeon. [Prov. Eng.]

ZOPE
Zope, n. Etym: [G.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European fresh-water bream (Abramis ballerus).

ZOPILOTE
Zo"pi*lote, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The urubu, or American black vulture.

ZORIL
Zor"il, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Zorilla.

ZORILLA
Zo*ril"la, n. Etym: [Sp. zorilla, zorillo, dim. of zorra, zorro, a
fox: cf. F. zorille.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Either one of two species of small African carnivores of the
genus Ictonyx allied to the weasels and skunks. [Written also zoril,
and zorille.]

Note: The best-known species (Ictonyx zorilla) has black shiny fur
with white bands and spots. It has anal glands which produce a very
offensive secretion, similar to that of the skunk. It feeds upon
birds and their eggs and upon small mammals, and is often very
destructive to poultry. It is sometimes tamed by the natives, and
kept to destroy rats and mice. Called also mariput, Cape polecat, and
African polecat. The name is sometimes erroneously applied to the
American skunk.

ZOROASTRIAN
Zo`ro*as"tri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Zoroaster, or his religious system.

ZOROASTRIAN
Zo`ro*as"tri*an, n.

Defn: A follower of Zoroaster; one who accepts Zoroastrianism.

ZOROASTRIANISM
Zo`ro*as"tri*an*ism, n.

Defn: The religious system of Zoroaster, the legislator and prophet
of the ancient Persians, which was the national faith of Persia;
mazdeism. The system presupposes a good spirit (Ormuzd) and an
opposing evil spirit (Ahriman). Cf. Fire worship, under Fire, and
Parsee.

ZOROASTRISM
Zo`ro*as"trism, n.

Defn: Same as Zoroastrianism. Tylor.

ZOSTER
Zos"ter, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Zone.] (Med.)

Defn: Shingles.

ZOSTERA
Zos"te*ra, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the Naiadaceæ, or Pondweed family. Zostera
marina is commonly known as sea wrack, and eelgrass.

ZOSTEROPS
Zos"ter*ops, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of birds that comprises the white-eyes. See White-eye.

ZOUAVE
Zouave, n. Etym: [F., fr. Ar. Zouaoua a tribe of Kabyles living among
the Jurjura mountains in Algeria.] (Mil.)
(a) One of an active and hardy body of soldiers in the French
service, originally Arabs, but now composed of Frenchmen who wear the
Arab dress.
(b) Hence, one of a body of soldiers who adopt the dress and drill of
the Zouaves, as was done by a number of volunteer regiments in the
army of the United States in the Civil War, 1861-65.

ZOUNDS
Zounds, interj. Etym: [Contracted from God's wounds.]

Defn: An exclamation formerly used as an oath, and an expression of
anger or wonder.

ZOUTCH
Zoutch, v. t. (Cookery)

Defn: To stew, as flounders, eels, etc., with just enough or liquid
to cover them. Smart.

ZUBR
Zubr, n. Etym: [Polish .] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The aurochs.

ZUCHE
Zuche, n.

Defn: A stump of a tree. Cowell.

ZUCHETTO
Zu*chet"to, n. Etym: [It. zucchetto.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A skullcap covering the tonsure, worn under the berretta. The
pope's is white; a cardinal's red; a bishop's purple; a priest's
black.

ZUFOLO
Zu"fo*lo, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A little flute or flageolet, especially that which is used to
teach birds. [Written also zuffolo.]

ZUIAN
Zu"ñi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pert. to the Zuñis, or designating their linguistic
stock. --n.

Defn: A Zuñi.

ZUISIN
Zui"sin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American widgeon. [Local, U. S.]

ZULU
Zu"lu, n. [Also Zooloo.]

1. Any member of the tribe of Zulus; a Zulu-Kaffir. See Zulus.

2.  (Philol.) One of the most important members of the South African,
or Bantu, family of languages, spoken partly in Natal and partly in
Zululand, but understood, and more or less in use, over a wide
territory, at least as far north as the Zambezi; -- called also Zulu-
Kaffir.

ZULU-KAFFIR
Zu"lu-Kaf"fir, n.

Defn: A member of the Bantu race comprising the Zulus and the
Kaffirs.

ZULUS
Zu"lus, n. pl.; sing. Zulu (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: The most important tribe belonging to the Kaffir race. They
inhabit a region on the southeast coast of Africa, but formerly
occupied a much more extensive country. They are noted for their
warlike disposition, courage, and military skill.

ZUMBOORUK
Zum*boo"ruk, n. Etym: [Turk. & Ar. zamb, fr. Ar. zamb a hornet.]
(Mil.)

Defn: A small cannon supported by a swiveled rest on the back of a
camel, whence it is fired, -- used in the East.

ZUMIC; ZUMOLOGICAL; ZUMOLOGY; ZUMOMETER
Zu"mic, a., Zu`mo*log"ic*al, a., Zu*mol"o*gy, n., Zu*mom"e*ter, n.,
etc.

Defn: See Zymic, Zymological, etc.

ZUNIS
Zu"nis, n. pl.; sing. Zuni (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Pueblo Indians occupying a village in New Mexico, on
the Zuni River.

ZUNYITE
Zun"yite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A fluosilicate of alumina occurring in tetrahedral crystals at
the Zuñi mine in Colorado.

ZWANZIGER
Zwan"zi*ger, n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: Am Austrian silver coin equivalent to 20 kreutzers, or about 10
cents.

ZWIEBACK
Zwie"back`, n. [G., fr. zwie-two, twice (see Twice) + backen to
bake.]

Defn: A kind of biscuit or  rusk first baked in a loaf and afterwards
cut and toasted.

ZWINGLIAN
Zwing"li*an, a. (Theol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Ulric Zwingli (1481-1531), the reformer of
German Switzerland, who maintained that in the Lord's Supper the true
body of Christ is present by the contemplation of faith but not in
essence or reality, and that the sacrament is a memorial without
mystical elements. -- n.

Defn: A follower of Zwingli.

ZYGANTRUM
Zy*gan"trum, n.; pl. Zygantra. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: See under Zygosphene.

ZYGAPOPHYSIS
Zyg`a*poph"y*sis, n.; pl. Zygapophyses. Etym: [Gr. apophysis.]
(Anat.)

Defn: One of the articular processes of a vertebra, of which there
are usually four, two anterior and two posterior. See under Vertebra.
 -- Zyg`ap*o*phys"i*al, a.

ZYGENID
Zyg"e*nid, n. Etym: [Cf. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of moths of the family Zygænidæ,
most of which are bright colored. The wood nymph and the vine
forester are examples. Also used adjectively.

ZYGOBRANCHIA
Zyg`o*bran"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of marine gastropods in which the gills are
developed on both sides of the body and the renal organs are also
paired. The abalone (Haliotis) and the keyhole limpet (Fissurella)
are examples.

ZYGOBRANCHIATE
Zyg`o*bran"chi*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Zygobranchia.

ZYGODACTYL; ZYGODACTYLE
Zyg`o*dac"tyl, Zyg`o*dac"tyle, n. Etym: [See Zygodactylic.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any zygodactylous bird.

ZYGODACTYLAE
Zyg`o*dac"ty*læ, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The zygodactylous birds. In a restricted sense applied to a
division of birds which includes the barbets, toucans, honey guides,
and other related birds.

ZYGODACTYLI
Zyg`o*dac"ty*li, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Scansores.

ZYGODACTYLIC; ZYGODACTYLOUS
Zyg`o*dac"ty*lic, Zyg`o*dac"tyl*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. zygodactyle.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Yoke-footed; having the toes disposed in pairs; -- applied to
birds which have two toes before and two behind, as the parrot,
cuckoo, woodpecker, etc.

ZYGOMA
Zy*go"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)
(a) The jugal, malar, or cheek bone.
(b) The zygomatic process of the temporal bone.
(c) The whole zygomatic arch.

ZYGOMATIC
Zyg`o*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zygomatique.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the zygoma. Zygomatic
arch, the arch of bone beneath the orbit, formed in most mammals by
the union of the malar, or jugal, with the zygomatic process of the
temporal bone. In the lower vertebrates other bones may help to form
it, and there may be two arches on each side of the skull, as in some
reptiles.
 -- Zygomatic process, a process of the temporal or squamosal bone
helping to form the zygomatic arch.

ZYGOMORPHIC; ZYGOMORPHOUS
Zyg`o*mor"phic, Zyg`o*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Symmetrical bilaterally; -- said of organisms, or parts of
organisms, capable of division into two symmetrical halves only in a
single plane.

ZYGOPHYTE
Zy"go*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of a proposed class or grand division (Zygophytes,
Zygophyta, or Zygosporeæ), in which reproduction consists in the
union of two similar cells. Cf. Oöphyte.

ZYGOSIS
Zy*go"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Conjugation.

ZYGOSPERM
Zyg"o*sperm, n. Etym: [Gr. sperm.] (Bot.)

Defn: A spore formed by the union of the contents of two similar
cells, either of the same or of distinct individual plants.
Zygosperms are found in certain orders of algæ and fungi.

ZYGOSPHENE
Zyg"o*sphene, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A median process on the front part of the neural arch of the
vertebræ of most snakes and some lizards, which fits into a fossa,
called the zygantrum, on the back part of the arch in front.

ZYGOSPORE
Zyg"o*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. spore.] (Bot.)
(a) Same as Zygosperm.
(b) A spore formed by the union of several zoöspores; -- called also
zygozoöspore.

ZYLONITE
Zy"lon*ite, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Celluloid.

ZYMASE
Zym"ase, n. Etym: [From Zyme.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A soluble ferment, or enzyme. See Enzyme.

ZYME
Zyme, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A ferment.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The morbific principle of a zymotic disease. Quain.

ZYMIC
Zym"ic, a. (Old Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or produced by, fermentation; -- formerly, by
confusion, used to designate lactic acid.

ZYMOGEN
Zym"o*gen, n. Etym: [Zyme + -gen.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A mother substance, or antecedent, of an enzyme or chemical
ferment; -- applied to such substances as, not being themselves
actual ferments, may by internal changes give rise to a ferment.
The pancreas contains but little ready-made ferment, though there is
present in it a body, zymogen, which gives birth to the ferment.
Foster.

ZYMOGENE
Zym"o*gene, n. Etym: [Zyme + root of Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: One of a physiological group of globular bacteria which
produces fermentations of diverse nature; -- distinguished from
pathogene.

ZYMOGENIC
Zym`o*gen"ic, a. (Biol.)
(a) Pertaining to, or formed by, a zymogene.
(b) Capable of producing a definite zymogen or ferment. Zymogenic
organism (Biol.), a microörganism, such as the yeast plant of the
Bacterium lactis, which sets up certain fermentative processes by
which definite chemical products are formed; -- distinguished from a
pathogenic organism. Cf. Micrococcus.

ZYMOLOGIC; ZYMOLOGICAL
Zy`mo*log"ic, Zy`mo*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zymologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to zymology.

ZYMOLOGIST
Zy*mol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is skilled in zymology, or in the fermentation of
liquors.

ZYMOLOGY
Zy*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Zyme + -logy: cf. F. zymologie.]

Defn: A treatise on the fermentation of liquors, or the doctrine of
fermentation. [Written also zumology.]

ZYMOLYSIS
Zy*mol"y*sis, n. [NL. See Zyme, and Lysis.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The action of enzymes; also, the changes produced by such
action. --Zy`mo*lyt"ic (#), a.



ZYMOME
Zy"mome, n. Etym: [Gr. (Old Chem.)

Defn: A glutinous substance, insoluble in alcohol, resembling
legumin; -- now called vegetable fibrin, vegetable albumin, or gluten
casein.

ZYMOMETER; ZYMOSIMETER
Zy*mom"e*ter, Zy`mo*sim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F.
zymosimètre.]

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the degree of fermentation
occasioned by the mixture of different liquids, and the degree of
heat which they acquire in fermentation.

ZYMOPHYTE
Zym"o*phyte, n. Etym: [Zyme + Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A bacteroid ferment.

ZYMOSE
Zy*mose", n. (Chem.)

Defn: Invertin.

ZYMOSIS
Zy*mo"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)
(a) A fermentation; hence, an analogous process by which an
infectious disease is believed to be developed.
(b) A zymotic disease. [R.]

ZYMOTIC
Zy*mot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Of, pertaining to, or caused by, fermentation.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, a certain class of diseases. See
Zymotic disease, below. Zymotic disease (Med.), any epidemic,
endemic, contagious, or sporadic affection which is produced by some
morbific principle or organism acting on the system like a ferment.

ZYTHEM
Zy"them, n.

Defn: See Zythum.

ZYTHEPSARY
Zy*thep"sa*ry, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A brewery. [R.]

ZYTHUM
Zy"thumn. Etym: [L.fr. Gr.

Defn: A kind of ancient malt beverage; a liquor made from malt and
wheat. [Written also zythem.]


[END]

End of Project Gutenberg's Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***

***** This file should be named 29765-8.txt or 29765-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/7/6/29765/

Produced by Graham Lawrence

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
